

uUiVI
EXTRA DRY SOLERO
A PRODUCT OF THE
dsf
HOUSE OF
SEPP E L T
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 70—No. 3599
Wednesday, February 2, 1949
Price 6cl.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
UNDER ST. BRIAVELS WALLS THE ENGLISH BOWMEN TRAINED
C[T. BRIAVELS CASTLE, near Chepstow in the Royal Forest of Dean,
was originally built by Milo Fitzwalter in 1131 to guard the forest against
the incursions of the Welsh. It derived its name from a tiny Cistercian
hermitage about a mile away, St. Briavels-stow, the holy place of St. Brieuc,
linking this remote spot with St. Brieuc in Brittany.
St. Briavels Castle as it stands today dates from 1275, when the castle
was reconstructed. For centuries it was the official residence of the Constable
of the Forest, and was visited many times by reigning sovereigns, who came
to hunt the deer and wild boar. The curious object surmounting the chimney
is a stone hunting horn indicating that it was the residence of the Constable.
The Keepership of the Forest was combined with that of the Constable of
St. Briavels Castle. The holder of these offices was always a person of con-
siderable social standing and had one or more deputies.
From the time of Edward the Confessor (1042-1066) the Forest was a
royal hunting reserve and it was a favored resort of Norman kings. William
the Conqueror is said to have been hunting in its glades when the news
reached him of the capture of York by the Danes. Henry I and Henry II
frequently hunted in the Forest and stayed at neighboring Flaxley Abbey.
King John (1199-1216) made St. Briavels his headquarters, and it is recorded
that Henry 111 stayed at the Castle in 1226 and 1229.
The Foresters were noted archers, and bands of them went to the sieges
of Berwick from 1310-1325 and formed part of the famous body of English
bowmen whose archery won the battles of Crecy in 1346 and Poictiers in 1359.
During the Edwardian wars of the thirteenth century St. Briavels was
a great armaments centre. The industry was in the hands of the Malemort
family for three generations; they seem to have specialised in bolts for cross-
bows, and many records of the exportation of these to Scotland and the
Continent are in existence. During this period the sound of busy smiths
could be heard all over the forest, for it is recorded that more than 70 forges
were in operation. Nails and pms were later products of their industry.


i
Um
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Fret
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
AGE
The Red Page
IN BROWNEST AUSTRALIA .
The first thing that really catches the
eye in Charles P. Mountford’s Brown
Men and Red Sand (Robertson and Mul-
lens) is a photograph of a gibber plain
at page 13. Anybody who has had the
pleasure of not travelling over a gibber
plain, but would like to know what one
looks like, will never have any doubts on
the subject after examining this photo-
graph: it looks like the floor of hell
paved with good intentions that have
long gone rotten. Not that Mr. Mount*
* ford, who seems to love the desert as
much as he loves its inhabitants, has in
any way set out to be discouraging.
His next item of outstanding interest
is another photograph—of an aboriginal
infant at page 20—which has something
of the same appalling beauty as the other,
only it looks considerably more flourish-
ing : it is probably the fattest and most
supercilious specimen ever to be immor-
talised by the camera.
Mr. Mountford’s photographs, obvi-
ously, are very good. So is his text.
The book is the record of a journey by
camel through the Centralian desert. It
is pleasant in style, it sets the reader
effortlessly and convincingly among the
sand and spinifex, the stark outcrops of
rock and the lonely waterholes, and Mr.
Mountford has something interesting to
describe wherever his camels take him.
On page 42, for instance, he is learning
how a medicine man, before his spirit can
go on a journey, has first to turn himself
into an eaglehawk and then to turn the
hawk inside-out.
Next he is describing some of the
curiosities and discomforts of the desert:
a dangerous spider, the mulga ant, which
builds a wall round the mouth of its nest
and thatches it with dead mulga leaves,
and another ant, “not as large as a grain
of sugar,” which is “the bane of all travel-
lers, brown or white” :■ —
The ants seem to know by some uncanny
instinct when human beings are about, for
hardly did we stop near one of their nests
than a line of them formed up and came
towards us. They attack those parts of
the body which are moist with perspiration,
such as between the fingers, under the arms,
and other uncomfortable places. Their bite
is hke the sting of a wasp... .The aborigines,
when they are in “ant” country, keep the
pests at bay by a ring of small fires, which
appears to be the only efficient protection.
On the same page Mr. Mountford in-
spects a lowan’s nest, ten feet across and
three feet deep. Next he Is telling the
extraordinary legend of the Ninya-men,
aboriginal demons who live in icy caverns
under two salt-lakes near Mount Conner,
“their bodies perpetually white with hoar-
frost, and their beards and eyebrows
masses of tinkling icicles.”
Like other' travellers before him, he
is impressed with the majesty of Ayers
Rock, “an enormous monolith of meta-
morphosed granite. Its sides rise so
abruptly that a person standing on level
ground can rest his hands on precipices
a thousand feet high.” Mr. Mountford
climbs the Rock, relates the legends con-
nected with it, and examines the paintings
in its caves—concerning, which he comes
to two very sensible conclusions: that
they wei*e not done only for religious or
for magical reasons but for delight (very
often, like the ballads of other primitive
peoples, including ourselves, to com-
memorate some notable feat of hunting);
and that, though ethnologically fascina-
ting and hot lacking in a sense of de-
sign, “they are not works of art of high
merit” —a piece of commonsense that is,
alas, unlikely to penetrate the surround-
ing density to those fashionable artistic
circles where the cave-paintings are wor-
shipped and imitated. One of the
aborigines who made the desert journey
with the author demonstrated to him,
incidentally, the technique of cave-paint-
ing, using red ochre and white pipeclay
to outline a male figure which had a
head-dress but no face:
Moanya looked at me in surprise when I
asked him where was the face He ex-
plained that he did not trouble to draw the
face because every blackfellow would know
where it was.
From primitive art Mr. Mountford pro-
ceeds, naturally enough, to cannibalism ;
or, rather, to a denial that cannibalism
is practised among the aborigines. Here
he crosses swords with no less an
authority than Mrs. Daisy Bates:
When collecting evidence it is sometimes
difficult to find out whether one’s informants
are speaking of the long-distant past or of
present-day events. This merging of the
past and the present has confused some
investigators and convinced them that the
eating of human flesh is a normal practice
among the aborigines. Perhaps the worst
offender in this respect is Mrs. Daisy Bates
in The Passing of the Aborigines.
Mr. Mountford asked one of his own
aborigines, whose tribe, he says, had been
accused of cannibalism in The Passing
of the A borigines, whether his people had
ever eaten human flesh. He indignantly
denied the aspersion, but said that the
aborigines to the south were man-eaters
and that “the white woman who lived at
Ooldea always attended those man-eating
feasts, but he felt fairly sure she only
looked on; she did not eat anything.”
And so [Mr. Mountford comments] does
rumor damn us! For it goes without say-
ing that the stories of my companions, and
without doubt those of Mrs. Bates, are
quite untrue; just rumors that grew up out
of the belief that it is always the distant
folk, the foreigners, who do the cruel and
terrible things, while our neighbors, whom
we meet and know, are decent and kindly
folk.
Leaving this subject to be chewed over
among the experts, Mr. Mountford goes
on to be a little sceptical about smoke-
signals, which (without specifically con-
sidering the possibility of telepathy) he
believes to be a very limited means of
communication.
He watches an aboriginal burial cere-
mony ; then gives a vivid description of
a native stalking a kangaroo on an open
plain; then explains the equitable system
by which food is shared out among the
tribe and denies the libel that the abo-
riginal husband gives his wife only the
scrag-ends or leavings of the feast —“there
was no discrimination in the amount of
food given to men or women.”
Next he tells how the discs of pearl-
shell used in rain-making rituals “pass
along a remarkable trade-route which
starts on the coast of north-western Aus-
tralia and finishes on the shores of the
Great Australian Bight, over 2000 miles
distant.” His aborigines perform a rain-
making ceremony for him, and, in slightly
shaken tones, contrasting with his scep-
ticism about smoke-signals, Mr. Mount-
ford records that the rain duly arrived —
within the five days specified and “in
early September, quite out of season,
the normal times being between Novem-
ber and March.”
His camels, inspired, perform a miracle
of their own and drink, each, 24 gallons
of water: a fact which also shakes the
author until he recalls that in The Red
Centre it is stated that one of Finlayson’s
camels, after three and a half days’ dry
stage, drank 43 gallons.
A final paragraph, of somewhat more
importance than the carrying-capacity
of camels, should be quoted, for Mr.
Mountford has. the welfare of the abo-
rigines much at heart:
The aborigines told us many stories of
killings [by white men] in the past, and
even at the present time. They were still
resentful over a cold-blooded murder of
some of their companions which had
occurred less than four years before our
visit among them. A white dogger, tres-
passing on the aboriginal reserve, had, be-
cause of an argument over women, left
poisoned flour, treacle and sugar behind
in his camp. Four innocent men and two
boys died before the aborigines realised that
the food was poisoned.
Though it reads very interestingly
simply as a travel book, Brown Men
and Red Sand has an underlying
ethnological purpose: to record the
mythology of the aborigines associ-
ated with their tribal lands; and
underlying that is the humane purpose
of pointing out how vital it is for the
happiness of such primitive aborigines as
remain for them to be left in possession
of their own lands, where every mountain,
every waterhole, every oddly-shaped rock
or tree is a monument and often an in-
carnation of the ancestral beings who are
the pillars of their whole mental and
spiritual existence.
On " Modern" Art.
The interesting thing about Paul Klee’s
On Modern Art (Faber) —to a reader who
has found little to admire in Klee’s
drawings (and less in the increasingly
common Australian imitations of them)
—is that his theories are, as far as they
go, unexceptionable.
The short treatise, illustrated with
Klee’s drawings, was prepared as a basis
for a lecture delivered by Klee at Jena
in 1924. It is, says Herbert Read in his
introduction, “the most profound and
illuminating statement of the aesthetic
basis of the modem movement in art
ever made by a practising artist.”
As Mr. Read admits—“the reader must
be prepared for difficulties due to the
cryptic, aphoristic nature of the writing”
—it is not always easy to understand
what Paul Klee is talking about; his
jargon is abstract, technical and muddled.
But the general drift of what he is trying
to say is clear enough; it is simply a
defence of abstract and surrealist art on
the grounds that:
First, the artist does not attach such im-
portance to natural forms as do many realist
critics, because, for him, these final forms
are not the real stuff of the process of
natural creation. For he places more value
on the powers which do the forming than
on the final forms themselves. He is, per-
haps unintentionally, a philosopher, and if
he does not, with the optimists, hold this
world to be the best of all possible worlds,
nor to be so trad that it is unfit tb serve
as a model, yet he says: “In its present
shape it is not the only possible world.”
The deeper he looks, the more readily he
can extend his view from the present to the
past, the more deeply he is impressed by
the one essential image of creation itself,
as Genesis, rather than by the image of
nature, the finished product.
He says to himself, thinking of life
around him: this world at one time looked
different and, in the future, will look dif-
ferent again. Then, flying off to the in-
finite, he thinks: It is very probable that,
on other stars, creation has produced a
completely different result This being so,
the artist must be forgiven if he regards
the present state of outward appearances
in his own particular world as accidentally
fixed in time and space. And as altogether
inadequate compared with his penetrating
vision and intense depth of feeling.
In this point of view there is, certainly,
a tremendous arrogance: Paul Klee is
saying, in effect, that he thinks he can
create more interesting or more beauti-
ful forms than the Creator. He is not
concerned, like the realist, to depict the
secret beauty of this earth as it is re-
vealed to him in flashes of intense per-
ception, but to improve on this earth.
It would, surely, be very difficult to im-
prove on, say, a storm at sea ; but then,
artists are entitled to be arrogant. Who
could possibly deny the creative spirit
the right to create any forms it chooses?
Once again, it is undeniable that the
abstract or imaginary fox-ms created by
the surrealist artist, though they may have
no relation whatever to any familiar
scene or object on this earth, do, once
they £re set on paper or canvas, be-
come realities which must automatically
be accepted as part of the content of our
known universe. It is no use saying to
a painting that looks like nothing on
earth, “You do not exist”: plainly, be-
fore one’s eyes, it does exist; and con-
ceivably, as Klee puts it, it could “lift
life out of its mediocrity”:
Our pounding heart drives us deep down,
deep down to the source of all. What
springs from this source, whatever it may
be called, dream, idea or phantasy, must
be taken seriously only if it unites with the
proper creative means to form a work of
art. Then those curiosities become realities
—realities of art which help to lift life,
out of its mediocrity.
Lastly, there is no possible basis for
argument against Paul Klee’s analysis of
“the proper creative means” which “form
a work of art”: which, patiently point-
ing out the obvious, he observes to be
line, tone and color; elements which,
by the purity of line, the variations of
tone and the clash or harmony of color
have their own aesthetic “meaning” dis-
tinct from the conscious meaning of the
subject—for this, after all, is only an-
other way of saying that pink is a pretty
color whether or not the artist has painted
a rose with it.
It is impossible, then, to argue against
the theory of abstract art as Paul Klee
has outlined it. Both Klee and Herbert
Read, in fact, in the excitement of what
appears to be a discovery, have over-
looked certain very cogent arguments in
their favor.
There is, for instance, a common type
of linoleum, used in bathrooms, in which
diamond-shaped elements of black are
contrasted against similar shapes of white.
There are also, for that matter, chess-
boards. There are wallpapers of arbitrary
design ; prints ; fabrics. These objects
do not occur in nature; they have an
aesthetic “meaning” as distinct from the
meaning of subject. They are a kind of
abstract art, and nobody ever queries
their right to exist.
Again, if it seems arrogant to the lay-
man but exciting to the surrealist artist
to seek to improve on nature, to invent
new forms, what else have the writers
of fairytales been doing for centuries?
If you may have in a fairytale a rabbit
that talks —which is a distinct improve-
ment on nature —or the famous Pushmi-
Pullyu of Dr. Doolittle —which does not
exist—then obviously an artist may in-
vent anything he likes.
Finally, Paul Klee and his editor have
overlooked the fact that every purely
aesthetic value they find in abstract art,
in line, tone and color, may also be
found in completely realistic paintings:
are there not excellence of drawing,
subtlety of tone and brilliant relations of
color in, for instance, Streeton’s “Fire’s
On”? If the interest and drama of the
subject of that painting prevent the
abstract artist from perceiving its purely
aesthetic qualities, all he has to do, to
see line, tone and color divorced from
conscious meaning, is to turn it upside
down: which, as a matter of fact, is a
common practice of realistic artists
when they wish to study the purely
aesthetic values of their work.
One 'finds, then, that Paul Klee is
simply writing, in effect, a defence of
linoleum and fairytales and, in his un-
easy flirtations with the question of
whether or not a picture should have a
conscious meaning—“ Why not?” he
asks in one daring paragraph—is not quite
sure whether he would prefer “Fire’s
On” right way up or upside down.
On the whole, since he is extremely
wary of conscious intellectual meanings
in a work of art and says that any re-
semblance to natural forms should emerge
“by accident,” it appears that Klee would
prefer his pictures upside down; that is
to say, meaningless except aesthetically
or as a stimulus to the imagination. To k
put his opinions in a literary way, he
does not want to write about a cow but
about a brrotzohumpheros —an abstract
animal which, having just sprung pure
from the present reviewer’s subconscious,
may reasonably be held to be a new
creation from Genesis and a curiosity
which lifts life out of its mediocrity.
Since this point of view, though peril-
ous, and likely to take one beyond
Genesis to mere Chaos, is undoubtedly
legitimate, the questions to be decided are
not those which the essay raises and
answers, but two which arise beyond its
confines ; whether Klee’s art, accepting
his own standards, is aesthetically pleasing
and intellectually stimulating; and
whether it is possible for abstract art, in
its purest state, to convey more —or much
more—pleasure than the. patterns on
linoleum or, as it approaches recognis-
able forms and conscious meaning, to
go very far beyond the limits of the
fairytale.
Most of Klee’s drawings are, in fact,
about as aesthetically stimulating as the
doodlings of a child of three ; which,
whatever may be said in their defence,
are never likely to shake the soul as do
“Macbeth” or the Ninth Symphony.
And even were they better of their kind,
it is certain that an art which seeks to
appeal to man’s aesthetic responses alone
must be severely limited: for man, unlike
the simple tree to which Klee, in a totally
false analogy, compares the artist, is a
highly complex being, capable of emo-
tional and intellectual as well as aesthetic
delight and demanding from a work of
art a correspondingly complex satisfac-
tion.
If the artist isolates and expresses one
element of the creative process to appeal
to one element of the mind of his audi-
ence, then, at best, he has satisfied in
himself and his audience that element
and no more. And he can give fuller
satisfaction only as he approaches more
and more closely to recognisable form
and conscious intelligibility, the elements
which fulfil the needs of the emotions
and the intellect.
In spite of its pretences to arrogance,
On Modern Art is rather a sad little
book, the expression of a desperately
minor talent desperately seeking to con-
fine all art to its own limitations. At the
end, the author wistfully declares, “Some-
times I dream of a work of really great
breadth, ranging through the whole region
of element, object, meaning and style”:
which, surely, would have brought him,
had his talent been equal to its aspira-
tions, to something very close to “Fire’s
On”—the right way up.
Sailing in All Directions .
The King’s Sailing Master, by Douglas
Dixon (Harrap), is a history of yachting
and a biography of Sir Philip Hunloke
and of the yacht Britannia, the lean,
lovely thing of gleaming wood and salt-
white canvas he sailed for King George V.
With his made-to-order title and ex-
cellent subject—anyone would stop to
watch a racing-yacht leaning on the wind
—the author could have produced a his-
tory of general and informative interest.
But his habit of digressing before the
start of an international race, “with a
few seconds to spare before the breeze
reaches Britannia,” and whisking his
spectators back to the marine meander-
ings of Charles II and Samuel Pepys—
fascinating though these would be at the
right time and in the right place—robs
his book of drama and continuity.
There is plenty of interesting material:
when Britannia’s crew mutinied over a
dress regulation, for instance, and when
the mastless old craft, still as shapely as
a water-witch, was towed into the channel
by two destroyers shortly after the King’s
death in 1936, and a charge blew her to
the bottom —but it is all too haphazardly
assembled. Britannia sails through a con-
fused sea of 300-odd pages charted with
dates and century-old names, types of
rigs, measurements, weights and times
which will be noted only by the particular
breed of inshore sailors to whom they
mean something, the layman being left,
as it were, out on the bowsprit.


Anthony Horderns’
“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING’
L‘ " ’ •
with "p "p
uomfitop Lusnions
Here is the ideal CUSHION for your car seat. It is soft,
cool, dustless and durable. It gives supreme comfort and
is equally as comfortable as a seat or back cushion. As in
A, it raises the body without lifting the knees. Illustration
B shows the support given to the knees for comfort during
long trips. Price 25/2
Saddlery Dept.—Lower Ground Floor , Pitt St.
•Af-
/Z.
m
/
m
1 H
w
■
■ :7
■
m
BB
I
I
■■ •,:
■
m
' . /
. .SK
/ V
€/
vs
S4
/ CODE 48 '
DUNLOPILLO CUSHIONING is ideal for all types of seating.
Many standard shapes— to provide supreme comfort for long
periods. They never “pack up”—are not inflated, therefore
never puncture, and are always cool. All types of Dunlopillo
made to order. Prices and particulars on application.
220-3. Code 5. 15in. diameter
ROUND CUSHION.
Uncovered 12/5
Tapestry covered 18/8
S 3QOD
w
CODE 150
220-2. Code 48. TRAC-
TOR OR PLOUGH SEAT.
Uncovered 18/-
220-4. Code 150. REVERSIBLE CUSHION.
18in. x 18in. x sin. Uncovered .. 25/7
Tapestry covered 42/3
4=
Clear Celluloid
Suitable for side
CURTAINS
Here’s a cheap and eminently satisfactory way
of keeping wind and rain OUT . . . and cosy
comfort IN! Available in sheets size 54in. x
24in. x 15-Ioooin 21/ sheet
54in. x 24in. x 20-1000 in 28/ sheet
FREIGHT EXTRA
Anthony Horderns
’Phone: M 2401, Day or Night Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney
:: :
t.
When the “LIGHTNING JACK” is used, the lightest
touch lifts the heaviest loads, and they are so easy to
work! To raise the load, simply slide the notched end
of the handle through the pump eye and pump vertically;
to lower, just withdraw the handle and turn the eye
slowly to left or right with handle.
FREIGHT EXTRA
Saddlery—Lower Ground Floor , Pitt St.


THERE'S ANOTER DAY TO-MORROW
By
OLAF
RUHEN
THE old tank stood at the corner
of the South horse-block, just where
the long Taranaki gate opened into
the stableyard. There was no reason
for it to be there, but there it had stood
since the day the new concrete tank by
the stable had gone into use. The rouse-
about we had at the time was sledging
it away to the tip in the long gully when
Luke Waters saw him and stopped him.
Luke thought the old tank might come
in useful some day. There was no other
place to put it, so they left it right where
it was, on its way to the tip, its top open
to the weather, its tap removed, the spars
on which it stood shored up with little
wiggly piles of brick and flat stone to
bring it to a level. It was a part of the
landscape.
THAT was the way Luke was about
everything. Everywhere under the
trees implements of a long-gone day
stood waiting for the emergency that
would find them useful again. The smithy
was cluttered up with every kind of old
iron. There was a shed back of it hung
about with broken rabbit-traps and coils
of wire, some rusted, some new, some
black, some galvanised, and some past
classification.
In the harness-room were shelves
loaded with ointments and bottles of
horse-medicine; and beneath them boxes
and tins filled with everything that had
ever been useful since the first horse had
walked into his stall. There were twitch-
sticks and fire-brands and fancy hames
and a couple of boxes of First War ser-
vice puttees that Luke said would be
useful for horse-bandages some day.
Most of these things he stored would
never be used, but Luke cherished them
all. It wouldn’t have been safe to use
a lot of them, because everyone had
long forgotten what they were. It was
right enough to use neatsfoot-oil for
the harness, but the medicines were too
chancy to play with.
“That Stockholm tar’s good stuff,” Con
Williams, the teamster, told Luke one
day. “Pride was playing up the other
morning, going out, and he split his
shoulder against the strainer-post. Isn’t
any black ointment left, so I just smeared
it with tar and lined his collar. That
was two days ago, and he’s as right as
ninepence.”
“Stockholm tar? Where did you get
the Stockholm tar?” Luke wanted to
know.
“I got it out of that old drum in the
corner where all them compensating-
trees are —where it always is.”
“That drum’s molasse's. I didn’t think
there was any Stockholm tar. You can
tell it’s molasses. There’s a lot of chaff
on the top of it,” Luke said in his usual
complaining way.
“Well, anyway, it cured Pride’s
shoulder,” Con maintained, stubborn as
a cat at an empty warren. “It cured
it right up.”
WORKING for old Luke was not
. hard. When a chain broke you just
unyoked the horses and brought them
back while the old man searched for the
right size in split-links; and if the har-
ness was on its last legs there was a big
hunt for leather and punches and rivets.
There was a kind of subterranean effi-
ciency, and an academic tidiness, about
Old Luke, like an old woman hoarding
paper and string. He liked to see use
made of all the gadgets and gear stored
in his sheds and barns. Nothing irritated
him more than to see a chain fixed up
with a shackle or a length of fencing-
wire; or a master-tree chained to a
plough-bridle instead of being linked
through a proper shackle. He was a
pleasure to work for, and while none of
us played on it much, we never had to
break our hearts sweating it out on a
stretch of gravelly lea for want of an
excuse to come into the shade.
Luke never bothered me in all the years
I was working for him. There were only
two things he really liked doing, and he
was always doing them. If he wasn’t
riding round his property on a flash hack
he was poking about among all his gear,
trying to match a nut for the binder, or
searching for cutting-dies or six-inch
nails.
Luke walked with a perpetual stoop
and one shoulder hitched higher than
the other, but he’d been a powerful man
in his time. I never knew how old he
jvas. He wouldn’t have looked old at
all but for his drooping white moustache.
He wore a slouch hat always pushed to
the back of his head, and the thatch that
showed in front of the brim was iron-
grey still. It stuck out in front, un-
combed, like a boy’s. His pale-blue eyes
had no age in them. He had a big spare
frame and he sat loosely on a horse. He
looked more at home on a horse, really,
than he did hitching about the yard.
Then, one day, Luke came back from
town with a new man—a second teamster.
Rick Crawford was his name, and he was
a stranger to the district.
RICK CRAWFORD was a tidy kind
of man, thin and straight, and quick
in his ways, like a kelpie. He had small
feet and hands, and a dark way of look-
ing at you from under his eyebrows,
more like a Welshman than a Scot. He
had a quick walk, too, a trick of swinging
along from his shoulders and throwing
his balance on to each foot, a sailorman’s
walk more than a teamster’s.
This Crawford turned out to be some-
thing of an efficiency expert. He had
a whole lot of short-cut methods up his
sleeve, and he was always thinking up
ways to make work easy, and to keep
things jogging right along.
I had no objection to that at all, ex-
cept for a feeling I have that when work
is hard it’s awful easy to get away from ;
and when it’s easy you might have the
same incentive but you don’t have any
excuse. It might be good business show-
ing the boss where he’s been wrong, but
by and large it’s a steadier business if
you let him find out.
And maybe he likes it wrong anyhow.
He ought to know. The way I work it
out is he’s liable to pick up enough new
ideas off the saleyard fence. If he gets
them there, the chances are he’ll think
them over on the drive home ; but if
they come to him right in the stableyard
he’ll probably act first
and do his thinking
afterwards.
First day this Rick
had to spare he
dropped another log
across the creek
where we had been
crossing it, and nailed
slabs there, and made
a good wide foot-
bridge where we had
been balancing and
teetering twenty
years on a log. The
pigs used it that
night, and some got
out in the horse-block
and the devil himself
might have been
chasing the horses
for the panic they
caused; and some
got down into the
vegetable garden, and
we had to put up a
pig-proof fence all
along the bank of
the creek, with a gate
at the footbridge
that we had to open and shut every
time we used it.
Not content with that, Rick reorganised
the boy. The boy was feeding the calves,
and when Rick came along a calf lifted
his head—as calves do—and the bucket-
handle slipped over his little horn-buds.
The calf was away off down the field as
quick as you could swear at him for it.
Rick showed the boy how to turn the
bucket-handle over when he set the
bucket down, so the handle was under
the calf’s neck when he was drinking.
That way he couldn’t get tangled up with
the bucket any more. That was all right
for the boy ; but it meant that where once
I could be reasonably certain that he
would be half the morning feeding the
calves, cleaning up, making new buckets
or fitting handles to them, half the time
he’d be sleeping the day away in the
barn, and I’d have to beat my brains
looking for something for him to do.
When his team broke a chain, Rick
would make a good strong link with
binder-twine. He always carried binder-
twine with him, and he said it W|s best
to use, because it couldn’t jag a' beast
like a wire-link might, and you wouldn’t
forget to replace it at the end of a day
with a proper split-link. And it was
quick and easy to fix up.
That was a new one on me. I thought
the twine would give at the first pull,
even if it were lapped a dozen times.
But I tried it out, and it did make a
good link. It would break a new chain.
It didn’t take any time to put on, and
at night you could run a knife across it
and slip a split-link in. With wire it
takes a long time to make a temporary
link that isn’t going to jag the horse,
particularly if you’re only working out in
the paddock without tools. And besides,
Luke didn’t like us doing it.
But it seemed to me an upsetting kind
of thing if a man couldn’t come into the
stableyard any more and fix a chain. It
seemed as though a man’s horses wouldn’t
get a proper rest any more. Sometimes,
I think, a horse breaks a chain on pur-
pose for a spell, and I wondered how
my teams would react when they found
they couldn’t do that any more. Anyway,
it seemed easier to go on the .way we
had been doing.
THIS Rick Crawford was a hard man
on his teams as well. He didn’t
overwork them, but he didn’t allow them
any of those little privileges that make a
horse happy; and he certainly got an
awful lot of work out of them. If he had
a couple of them pulling a light load,
he’d jog-trot them all over the place, if
it was that kind of
a load, and the sun
was not too hot.
Me, I like to let them
take their own gait,
and it gives me a
chance to think out
just what kind of a
job is ahead of us,
and what is the best
way to tackle it
when we get there.
Anyhow, it must be
nice for a horse to
have a light sort of a
job once in a while,
just like it is for a
man.
Rick must have
had a tidy breed of
a mind, because he
was always moaning
about things like the
old tank, propped
up level where the
horse-block opened
on the stableyard.
It wasn’t doing any-
body any harm. You
could drive to one
side of it or to the other side ; but he
was always suggesting to have it shifted,
back against the stable-wall, or over to
the tip, or some place else. He’d want to
cut it down and make a feeder out of
it, or turn it on its side and make duck-
shelters or dog-kennels. But old Luke
just listened to him and left it where it
was.
Rick could certainly do a lot of work.
I suppose he had always had to. I’ve
never seen so much work as where he
was. I think old Luke realised this, the
way he used to keep Rick away from
the milking-sheds.
O NE day Rick was out at the back of
the South horse-block. He had been
hauling fence-posts out to the boundary,
and he had a couple of young horses in
a sledge. On his way out he broke the
coupling. Matt and Bess were good
horses and you didn’t have to rein them
much ; and I suppose anyone would have
fixed the coupling with binder-twine, just
like Rick did, and carried on with the
job. But once the load was delivered
anyone else might have walked ahead of
them, or at least let them find their own
way home at their own pace.
Not Rick. He sat back on the sledge
and brought them all the way in at a
smart trot. About a hundred yards from
the gate into the stableyard, judging by
the tracks, Matt and Bess sighted one of
the pigs.
The boy had left the gate open that
led to the little footbridge, and this
porker and a couple of others had found
his way across. Horses don’t like pigs.
So Matt and Bess put their ears back
and plunged forward and the pig went
squealing ten jumps ahead of them into
the stableyard.
This was all a bit sudden for Rick,
and the move put him off balance. The
lines flapped and jerked, and Matt and
Bess took the bits in their teeth and
bolted. As they swept into the stable-
yard, Rick got a good hold on the lines
again and pulled.
It was just the wrong time for him to
recover. If he’d sat and thought it out
a bit he might have been all right. But
he lay back on the reins and the coupling
gave way, with him pulling. Matt went
one way and Bess the other.
Matt went east of the tank, and Bess
went west. The spreader bar caught the
little piles of bricks under the spars that
held the tank, and threw the tank sky-
high, rolling it over. Rick saw it com-
ing, and jumped, but the tank trapped
him in mid-air. It came down “womp,”
and its open edges cut into the soil. It
stuck there hard and fast, with Rick
inside like a pea in a thimble.
Matt and Bess finished their run at
the stable-door, sledge and all, with only
the broken binder-twine coupling to show
that there had been anything wrong.
The little'pig got away somewhere in the
confusion; and he must have made his
way back across the footbridge, because
the boy said they were all there when
he fed them that night.
AT the time, of course, we didn’t know
anything about all this. We only put
it all together afterwards, when we had
a good look at the tracks of the sledge,
and we didn’t think to do that until it
was all over. But Rick was certainly
a lucky man, because if the edge of the
tank had hit him it would have split him
down like a butcher’s cleaver. Anyhow,
it could have torn him about pretty
badly. It was a square, heavy tank, and
the top had been cut away with a cold-
chisel, leaving the edge all jagged. Maybe
Rick had time enough to roll away frim
the edge, but not to jump clear. Any-
way, there he was like a frog in a jam-
tin, and we knew nothing about it. All
we knew was that the horses were wait-
ing at the stable-door.
I put Matt and Bess in their stalls and
gave them a couple of pecks of chaff each
until Rick should show up. I wasn’t
worried about him because I reckoned
the horses had moved out on him while
he was unloading the posts, and he would
have a long walk home. When he wasn’t
back after lunch I told old Luke about it.
Luke said, “Give him another hour and
I’ll ride out and have a look for him.”
So he did, and he was away most of the
afternoon. He rode in about tea-time.
“Is that cow back yet?” he said.
I told him no. He seemed a bit an-
noyed. “I’ve looked in every gully and
wash. I followed his tracks, and he’s
not anywhere. I reckon he’s lit out on
me. He drew his wages Saturday.”
I said “All right. I’ll feed his horses.”
I thought it was a funny time for him
to go off like that, but then I thought
he had a lot of funny notions anyway.
“You didn’t move that big tank at the
horse-block gate?” Luke said.
I said “No. You want it moved?”
“It must have been Rick,” he said.
“It’s all on one side. It’s been tipped
upside-down. It looks as though someone
wanted the spars, but the spars are still
there.”
“It was all right this morning,” I said.
(i Continued on page 29.)


The Bulletin
Vol. 70—No. 3599
Wednesday, February 2, 1949
ANOTHER SOCIALIST ACHIEVEMENT.
"And now for the big surprise. Under my Nationality and Citizenship Act you have been made Australian citizens. Congratulations!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
Australia for the White Map”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0 .), Wellington.
THIS FREEDOM!
Australia Day, just elapsed, was chosen
by the Socialist Government in Canberra
' f °r proclamation of its Citizenship Act
purporting to give to all Australian sub-
jects of the King a democratic face-
lifting. We were made thereby Australian
citizens by statute, and that law lays
down also that by virtue of such legalised
citizenship shall each of us in future
possess the right to call himself a British
subject.
The Socialist Government in Britain
has similarly legalised the inherent right
of freeborn Englishmen, Scotsmen,
Welshmen and Ulstermen to be citizens
of the United Kingdom, and they, along
with the independent republican Irish of
Eire who have abjured the King, are also
recognised as “British subjects.” It would
be funny if it were not dangerous.
Disregarding alien newcomers, “State-
less” displaced persons, women who
married foreigners—all of whom will
have to qualify, get registered, and go
through a sort of public baptism and
benediction by a magistrate—what the
Chifley’s Government legislation does is
to O.K. the status of the mass of Aus-
tralian citizens. They are supposed to
throw out their chests with new pride.
They are henceforth free men in a free
country because a totalitarian-minded
Government says so. As a throw-in they
are made British subjects as well.
Most Australians thought they already
enjoyed these things. It was actually on
their free votes as Australian citizens (and
British subjects) that this Government
was elected to the seat of that temporary
authority by assertion of which it can
call upon Parliament to enact anything at
all. It is all rather like legislating to give
a hitherto free Australian the right to
walk down George-street or Collins-street.
It is also reminiscent of a detail in the
cross-examination of William Jennings
Bryan by the equally famous Clarence
Darrow in that celebrated United States
case in the ’twenties, The State of Ten-
nessee v. Joseph Stokes (“The Monkey
Trial”):
Stokes was indicted under the State law
for teaching the history of human evolution
in a State school, not in accordance with
the Bible but in the light of scientific re-
search. Darrow, defending, was question-
ing Bryan as a voluntary witness for the
prosecution. At the end of an exhaustive
interrogation he came to the verse in Gene-
sis where punishment is meted out against
the serpent in the Garden of Eden.
“Now tell me, Mr. Bryan,” said Darrow,
“do you believe that, because the serpent
did this thing in corrupting our first
parents, and was commanded to go on his
belly for the rest of his days, that is why he
goes on his belly today?”
“Yes,” said Mr. Bryan.
“Then, tell me, how did he go before?”
Similarly every born Australian might
ask these Canberra Socialists whether
before Australia Day last week he was an
Australian citizen and a British subject,
and if not, why not. But by no means let
anybody think that such simple “human
rights” (as Dr. Evatt calls them overseas)
are unchanged, and nothing has happened
to them. What has happened to them is
this: the Government in- Canberra
now bases those rights- on its legislation,
and when these Socialists start making
laws to give us something we already
possess by right, the chances are they are
only preparing to take it away by' the
same method.
The Chifley crowd will doubtless retort
that this is ridiculous. But the electors
have seen things dope in the green twig
which must make them highly suspicious
of what may be attempted in the dry.
They have seen a programme of socialisa-
tion launched on the community without
any vestige of notice to the electors or
of a mandate from the last elections. This
“Labor” Government, which “changed its
plumage in mid-flight” to suit its Com-
munist fellow-travellers, did not even
have a mandate for interfering with our
status as citizens. We were once both
Australian citizens and British subjects
by birthright. Now we are such only by
a Socialist Act of Parliament. And in
the broader Empire we have even gone
down a peg, as Mr. Menzies recently
pointed out. If any Australian hence-
forth changes his domicile to Britain —as,
for instance, some of our prominent
crickefers or jockeys occasionally do—
he will be admitted as a citizen of the
United-Kingdom-and-Colonies only on
approval, whereas any one of the King’s
black subjects from Jamaica or West
Africa enjoys citizen rights there auto-
matically on arrival.
Another highly important question is:
What will be the effect of this new
statutory citizenship upon the individual
Australian’s freedom? We have seen
during the past year British subjects who
served Australia loyally during the war,
and who had married Australian wives,
deported and their wives forced into exile
on the order of the Minister who spon-
sored and will administer this new Act.
We have seen Australian women, engaged
for secretarial, work with the American
Army, and holding valid passports for
overseas, ordered back peremptorily to
Australia by the same Minister —and not
without implied slurs on their character
by a “Labor” Senator—for no reason at
all but that their freedom to go where
they liked and do their preferred work
was declared to be limited by Govern-
ment decision.
Either these people were not regarded
by Canberra as deserving or possessing
citizens’ rights, or else those rights are in
the Socialist view strictly circumscribed.
How free henceforth under the new Act
is any Australian? That he is actually not
free to go abroad or to stay abroad with-
out strict questioning he knows already.
How free will he be henceforth at home?
That will depend very largely upon his
own vigilance. To the mortgaging of one
freedom the Australian wage-earner is
already committed clandestinely by his
political and industrial representatives.
He has been given, he has been told by
these promoters of the “Golden Age,”
material “security” through the medium
of “full employment.” But he is begin-
ning to heed warnings of the very rickety
foundation of “full employment” upon
the condition that there shall be more
jobs than labor to perform them, fewer
goods than the community demands—in
short, in Mr. Churchill’s phrase, upon
“organised scarcity.” A few months ago
Mr. Chifley, in conference with 140 repre-
sentative union delegates, had squarely
to meet the question: What happens
when the expected “recession” arrives or
when local production of goods equals
demand? Mr. Chifley answered that the
Government will, if necessary, maintain
“full employment” by a lavish loan-works
programme, but
No guarantee can be given to anybody
that he will stay in a particular industry.
There may have to be transfers of workers.
I am not going to fool anybody in that re-
• spect.
He isn’t any longer. But it came as
a shock f to the unions to know that
socialisation and “full employment”
means manpowering again, conscription
of workers in “transfers” of labor. Will
that mean amendment of the Socialist
Citizenship Act, or is curtailment of per-
sonal freedom to be expected in the
Socialist administration of it?
“Pat as an echo,” too, in the words of
Mr. W. M. Hughes, comes the enforced
removal of certain freeborn Australians,
the half-caste children who for six years
have enjoyed equal social status with
white children in the community at
Mulgoa, near Sydney. By official order
they were suddenly drafted for return to
an aboriginal reserve in Central Australia
—where full-blacks, as protesting organi-
sations of white citizens of Mulgoa and
Wallacia have pleaded, “will not admit
them as equals in the manner in which
we have been privileged to do.” All sorts
of official excuses have been adduced to
cloak this one essential point. These
children might have resigned themselves
to an outcast status —even under the
Socialist Citizenship Act —if they had
never known freedom of opportunity, or
the privilege of social equality, with their
full-white contemporaries. The cruelty
inflicted on them, at an age when ’the
bitterness engendered bites deep, is appar-
ently ignored by the bureaucracy ruling
this land of freedom.
The crowning offence was that the
thing should have been done on the eve
of Australia Day, the day when the free
status of all Australian-born citizens (in-
cluding these youngsters) was for the first
time proclaimed as’granted by “Labor’s”
vaunted statute. Let all those receiving
these synthetic “rights” beware!
Japan Rejects Socialism.
The new Japanese Constitution, forced
upon that conquered country in 1946, de-
clared that until the peace treaty was
signed Japan should be given full, but
self-limited, government, to an extent
that would purge it of all militarism, of
plutocratic and authoritarian forces, and
would tend to convert it to a democracy.
The Emperor’s autocratic powers were
wiped out, the peerage abolished, women
were given votes, the voting-age was
lowered to 20 years, conscription was dis-
carded, the defence forces flattened,
freedom of speech established, war re-
nounced “for ever.” Large estates were
grabbed and given to the peasants, the
“eight-family” monopolists purged, and
an election was held on April 10, 1946.
The 40 million voters sorted out, from
2800 candidates, 143 Liberals, 94 Pro-
gressives, 84 Independents, 92 Socialists,
16 Co-operatives, five Communists and 32
mixed representatives. Included in the
lot were 39 ladies.
A predominantly Liberal Cabinet ob-
tained office by the skin of its teeth at
the outset, with the Liberal, Shigera
Yoshida, at its head; but he had little
chance of surviving, especially as it was
made as clear as possible to die obliging
Japanese by the British Socialist Govern-
ment and by Dr. Evatt and his followers,
with Soviet Russia’s approval, that de-
mocracy could never be attained until the
trade-unions were in control.
In the subsequent melees the original
Government disappeared, and a new elec-
tion, on Anzac Day, 1947, brought into
office an Administration after Canberra’s
own heart. The new Diet consisted of
143 Social Democrats, 133 Liberals, 126
Democrats, 31 Co-operatives and four
Communists. The new Premier was.a
Mr. Tatsu Katayama. He in turn gave
way on March 9, 1948, to a stalwart
Labor journalist, Hitoshi Ashida, who
proceeded, with the blessing of Socialist
backers in Australia and elsewhere, to
introduce the millennium.
It was presently discovered that Cabinet
Ministers and political heads of depart-
ments had become involved in a vast net
of corruption with a highly-smelling fer-
tiliser combine called the Showa Denka
Company. This capitalist excrescence had
subscribed 10,000,(XX) yen to the funds of
the Social Democratic party, which, with,
the politeness natural to Socialists, had
engineered an arrangement under which
the Showa Denka was to receive two-
thirds of a total reconstruction loan for
fertiliser of 3,000,000,000 yen. It was also
deduced that the company, beside fer-
tilising the Social Democratic party, had
also fertilised the futures of several
Ministers and high civil servants.
After the revelation Mr. Yoshida, the
original Prime Minister, who is 70 years
of age, was returned to power in the Diet
last October by 186 votes to 185, a large
number of honorable members refrain-
ing from voting and 27 others being com-
pelled to absent themselves, since they
were either under lock-and-key awaiting
trial, or fugitive.
Mr. Yoshida found himself unable to
carry on, and has just held the third
general election which Japan has en-
dured in three years. He was forced to
the country on a vote of no-confidence
on December 23, and fought on a policy
which gloomily attributes Japan’s woes
to “laxity of discipline and decay of
morals since the war’s end,” but declares
that the “key to national reconstruction
lies in moral reform —in the resurrec-
tion of an ethical Japan in which the
righteous are duly rewarded.”
Mr. Yoshida’s opponents, from the
first, were at a distinct disadvantage, since
their natural leader, Mr. Ashida (who was
ie-eleeted to his seat), and some of his
oblique supporters of the last Cabinet,
were under arrest and not in a very
favorable position to advocate political
idealism. Even the facts that members
had changed their parties with bewilder-
ing ease during the year, and that his
Treasurer had celebrated the Christmas
season by biting a lady M.P. too lovingly
in the refreshment-room, could not im-
pede the veteran Liberal Yoshida at the
polls, and he romped home to a victory
with the first absolute majority seen in
the Diet for a long time. He scored vigor-
ously from both Right and Left parties,
with one exception. His following in-
creased from 152 to 263, while the
Socialists, from being the second-largest
party in the House with 111 members,
came back with only 49. The Democrats
lost 20 seats. The Co-operatives’ strength
fell from 29 to 14. Only the Communists
—they had 35 returned —gained substan-
tially among the smaller parties.
The reason for the debacle of the
Socialist bloc is clear; and for those
members of the Attlee and Chifley Gov-
ernments who have the gift of analogy
the result should provide some disquiet-
ing moments. Such things as the finding
of the British tribunal inquiring into the
alleged bribery of a junior Minister, Mr.
Belcher, and a director of the Bank of
England, Mr. Gibson, have served to
illuminate to us the mainsprings of the
sudden Japanese trend towards Conser-
vatism. As one London paper puts it,
in commenting on this relationships of
Messrs. Belcher and Gibson with Mr.
Sidney Stanley, alias Solomon Wulkan,
and Sir Maurice Bloch, “a planned
economy centrally directed by poli-
ticians and bureaucrats has its own
particular brands of danger,” and
“Socialist planning as we know it to-
day creates a perilous concentration of
power and a perilous reduction of
human responsibility, affording cover for
the activities of corrupt men.” The
Japanese electors, as other electors are in
process of doing, have back-pedalled
hurriedly from a system which exhibits
these features.
. The elements of the pattern of events
m Japan are evident wherever totalitarian
or authoritarian Socialism flourishes or
has flourished.
The future for Japan has problems and
dangers from the Australian point of
view. The extreme Left-wing parties,
some of which are Communist in every-
thing but name, seem almost strong
enough to constitute a joint Opposition,
which must be under Communist leader-
ship. It also appears certain that Com-
munists are likely to gain rather than
to . lose for some time to come.
This is especially so since the Japanese
know that with universal literacy,
high technical skill and Western in-
telligence grafted on to Oriental tough-
ness and endurance, they must ultimately
become the dominating Power in an
Eastern Asia from which Europeans were
excluded, and Communist policy at this
stage suits their aim.
There are two possibilities in the offing,
neither of them pleasant to contem-
plate. One is the domination of Eastern
Asia by a restored and rearmed Japan,
with all the resources of China and Man-
churia at its disposal. The other is a
Japan, still with its industrial resources
and military striking-power redeveloped,
at the disposal of the U.S.S.R. and its
satellite, China. Neither chance is invit-
ing. And one or other of them can only
be avoided by long-continuing occupa-
tion of Japan, or by agreeing to some
scheme of expansion which will take care
of a present increase of 2,000,000 a year
of population, with the rate expanding
annually.
Exit the Cable.
R.V.”: The cable-station in King
William-street, Adelaide, conducted first
by the Eastern Extension Co. and later
by Cable and Wireless, Ltd., has been
operating continuously for 47 years.
During most of that time it carried the
bulk of the traffic from Australasia to
Europe, except for the small portion
served to the Far East by the Overland,
slung across the continent by Charles
Todd to Darwin in 1872, and the Gov-
ernment-owned Pacific cable. During
World War I it carried an enormous
business and was never interrupted, except
for 24 hours after the Emden’s fatal visit
to Cocos. It did the same during World
War 11, although Cocos was constantly
harassed by Jap bombers. Attempts by
German subs and surface-craft to find
the cables, grapple and lift them, were
made, but they had no visible effect on
the flow of traffic.
When the Beam wireless came into
active competition with cables the com-
pany’s engineers got busy and completely
revolutionised the system, which had be-
come slow compared with modern means
of transmission. Anybody who knew the
capacity of the cables 20 years ago would
find it hard to believe that the other day
the 8.8. C. sent a message 25,000 miles
round the world in 80 seconds to celebrate
the centenary, of the first telegram by sub-
marine-cable. It went all the way through
the cables in fewer minutes than it would
have taken hours under the old system.
A few weeks ago the last message was
received at the Adelaide end and the
station closed down. Socialisation in
England and Australia has turned the old
private concern into the Overseas Tele-
communications Commission, which has
run Australia’s Beam and cables since
they came under Government control in
1947. The commission has been plump-
ing more and more for the aerial route
at the expense of the submarine, and now
it is to be supposed that the cables, worth
many millions, will be left to rust on the
sea-floor. There are 360,000 miles of
British cables.
Years ago, when the scrapping of the
cables in favor of wireless was first
mooted, The Bulletin pointed out the
danger to Australia from the viewpoint of
defence. The cables showed their value
in the last war. It is electrically impos-
sible to tap a cable without the stations
at each end instantly knowing what is
happening. Lifting and cutting them is
a long and hazardous operation, and any
vessel that is reckless enough to do it is
a sitting shot for patrolling aircraft.
Radio messages can be picked up without
anybody being the wiser, and few codes
have yet been devised that can’t be de-
ciphered. The Beam is susceptible to
auroras, sunspots, electrical storms and
other aerial diseases, and can be jammed
by a more powerful station.
From the point of view of security
there is no comparison between cables
and wireless. Presumably, however, their
unfortunate association with private enter-
prise is sufficient to damn them in the
eyes of the Chifley and Attlee, Socialists,
and they are to be abandoned. As if in
protest, last week “sunspots and the
aurora borealis shut down short-wave
world radio communication for a period
representing one of the worst disruptions
in communications history.”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Guests for Dinner.
Disturbing to Socialists and their trust-
ing followers must be the report of the
Lynskey Tribunal, which inquired into
charges of graft in the British Board of
Trade and elsewhere and found two
prominent British Socialists guilty of mis-
using their official positions. John
Belcher, Parliamentary Secretary to the
Board of Trade, was found to have been
bribed with gifts, and George Gibson, a
Labor-appointed director of the Bank of
England, to have used his influence to
further the interests of others “in the
hope of material advantage to himself.”
Belcher was only a junior Minister, but
Gibson was highly regarded by the Attlee
Government, and was, in fact, one of the
key figures of nationalisation. At one
time an attendant in a mental hospital
and secretary of the Mental Hospital
Workers’ Union, he was elected to file
General Council of the Trade-Union
Congress in 1928 and was its chairman in
1940 and 1941. When Labor came to
power he was made chairman of the
North-West Regional Board for Indus-
try, and when the Old Lady of Thread-
needle-street was nationalised in 1946 he
was chosen as one of the three Govern-
ment-nominated directors. In the follow-
ing year the Attlees nationalised all
electrical authorities, and Gibson became
chairman of the North-West Area Elec-
tricity Board at £4OOO- a year.
Evidence at the inquiry showed that
Stanley (alias Wulkan), the Polish Jew
and undischarged bankrupt whose activi-
ties led to the inquiry, had cultivated a
friendship with both Gibson and Belcher.
There was evidence that he had bought
suits for them, had paid for dinners —not
snacks at a quick-lunch counter, but
elaborate dinner-parties—and had settled
the hotel-bill for Belcher and his family
during the Labor Conference at Mar-
gate. Belcher had also received a gold
cigarette-case, cigars andi whisky!, and
had frequently been Stanley’s guest at
“the dogs.” Other Labor men had also
met Stanley, but they did not hold him
in such high esteem as did Belcher and
Gibson. Dr. Dalton, for instance,
“formed the view that he was a contact-
man of low repute.” Mr. Gibson’s
opinion of Stanley, expressed in a letter
to Mr. Glenvil Hall, Financial Secretary
to the Treasury, was that he was “un-
questionably a big businessman with big
interests.” When Hall showed reluctance
to grant Stanley an interview, Gibson
wrote: “In spite of Stanley’s Oriental
extravagances, I think he is worth see-
ing,” and, in a letter of introduction
which he gave Stanley’s wife, he described
her spouse as “a very good friend of
mine, an eminent businessman with large
interests, who is greatly concerned in the
re-establishment of world trade and world
prosperity,” Belcher found Stanley “a
stimulating intellectual companion....
full of ideas, some of them very good
ideas, for doing things to aid this coun-
try.”
In the tangled evidence of the judicial
inquiry, the main interest, as far as Gib-
son was concerned, was in dinner-parties
“given” by him but paid for by Stanley.
Belcher first miet Stanley at a Gibson
party ; so did Glenvil Hall; so again did
Dr. Dalton. At one of the parties Hall
was introduced to Sherman, a football-
pool promoter, who was planning the
flotation of a company for which Trea-
sury consent was needed. At dinner Hall
was placed next to Mr. Wolfson, manag-
ing-director of Great Universal Stores,
who had dealings with the Treasury and
the Board of Trade. Subsequent to Dr.
Dalton’s meeting Stanley at a Gibson
party, Stanley introduced Dalton to Wolf-
son. There was evidence that Wolfson
paid £lOOO to Stanley. Attorney-General
Sir Hartley Shawcross suggested that this
was consideration for introducing Wolf-
son to Dalton, Gibson, Belcher and Mr.
Key, Minister for Works. Wolfson’* ex-
planation was that the money was “prob-
ably” payment for introducing some
manufacturers and customers.
In his final address to the Tribunal Sir
Hartley said of the dinners that their
objective was obvious,
especially if, as would normally be the
case, the innocent guests invited had no
knowledge that their entertainment was
being paid for by a person whose open
invitation they would be most unlikely to
accept, and sometimes, as in the case of
Mr. Hall, it was being organised that they
should sit next to a particular person, not
because of the social attraction or intellec-
tual interests, but for some ulterior reason.
Of a letter written by Gibson to Sir
Stafford Cripps, the Attorney-General said
it suggested that “Mr. Gibson was show-
ing great assiduity, not to say enthusiasm,
in promoting the interests of those he
believed to be the clients or associates
or friends of Mr. Stanley.” He said the
Tribunal would have to consider whether
by an indiscreet association and conduct
Gibson lent himself to the perpetration
of something in the nature of a confi-
dence-trick by Stanley, and whether he
had misused his position and influence as
a public servant.
The Tribunal went a little further than
that. There was evidence that Stanley
had offered Gibson the chairmanship of a
company, about to be floated, at a salary
of £lO,OOO a year; the permission of the
Capital Issues Board had, of course, to
be gained before flotation. The Tribunal
found that there was no doubt that Gib-
son knew the purpose of the offer. The
report said: “It is true he declined it,
but we think he did so because he pre-
ferred to accept the chairmanship of
the North-West Electricity Board.” They
considered that Gibson did what he could
to assist Stanley to secure the consent
of the Capital Issues Committee, that he
was influenced by Stanley’s offer, “which
he knew was made for an improper pur-
pose,” and that he “continued to assist
Stanley in the latter’s various enterprises
in the hope of further material advantage
to himself.”
Before the inquiry ended Belcher re-
signed his Board of Trade position and
Gibson his Bank of England directorship.
After the Tribunal’s report was pub-
lished Gibson also stepped down from his
Electricity job. It has been suggested
that there will be no prosecutions, as the
publicity given to the Tribunal’s pro-
ceedings might “prejudice any defendant’s
case.” Far more than that has been pre-
judiced by the whole unsavory business.
Socialism, in any country, can ill afford
“ADVANCE AND BE RECOGNISED.”
“Mr. Chifley announced that the Australian Government has decided to give full
recognition to the Jewish State of Israel, which has repeatedly defied U.N.O., killed British
subjects, has not cleared its name of the murder of Count Bernadotte, [?] which has
obviously had the aid of the Soviet in its war against the Arabs and Egyptians and its
outrages against citizens of the Western democracies.”
“Pass, friend.”
to add corruption to the heavy weight of
bungling and incompetence it already
carries.
Prices and Votes.
So uplifted is Victorian “Labor” at
having retained the Prahran seat by an
increased but small margin in the State
by-election—some 2000 fewer electors
voted than in the general elections 15
months ago —that the A.L.P.’s Victorian
campaign director, Kennelly, M.L.C., re-
gards it “as a pointer to a ‘Labor’ win at
the Federal elections this year.”
Mr. Kennelly also picks as a winning
issue for the Chifleyites the rise in cost
of commodities since Federal price-
control was hastily abandoned by Mr.
Chifley in the middle of last year. The
Victorian “Labor”-party leader, Mr. Cain,
joined in with his own condemnation of
price-control by the States.
But “Labor” speaks with two voices
on this matter. The N.S.W. “Labor”
Prices Minister, who is chairman of the
States’ joint Prices Commission, said, on
the same day as these Victorian “Labor”
statements were issued:
Some Canberra economists got the States
into trouble and are now critical of them.
These Canberra economists claim to have
done an excellent job while price-fixing was
under Commonwealth control.
That may be true, but they were helped
tremendously by the fact that the Common-
wealth Government subsidies created an
artificial prices ceiling The job is very
much more difficult without that artificial
aid.
And it was precisely because, piqued by
the “No” vote against permanent Can-
berra control of all prices, Mr. Chifley
wanted to make the States’ job more diffi-
cult that he withdrew the subsidies which
alone had supported the Commonwealth
artificially-pegged prices. Those subsidies
were extracted by direct taxation of the
people who bought those goods, and Mr.
Chifley has not yet correspondingly re-
duced his taxation levies even though he
has cut off the subsidies which that taxa-
tion paid for.
"Labor's" Hopes and Fears.
“Labor” speaks with many voices, not
the least of them being a Mr. J. P.
Ormonde, for 15 years on the Central
Executive of the A.L.P. (N.S.W.) and
formerly editor of that “Labor” weekly
the “Standard.” Invited to write an
article for the capitalist daily press, Mr.
Ormonde chose to discuss “Labor’s”
chances in the forthcoming Federal elec-
tion, and, by kidding himself on some
things, and obviously avoiding others, is
“quietly confident” except for one item—-
coal.
By holding that the Chifley Govern-
ment’s “banking, economic and industrial
legislation” has “pleased the progressive
section of the community,” and that “the
benefits of the social-service scheme now
flowing through to the little people”
must “secure thousands of votes for
Labor,” Mr. Ormonde convinces himself
that coal is the only problem. That the
banking legislation alone wiped out a
“Labor” Government in Victoria and has
turned all rural Australia against
“Labor,” that “social-service schemes”
have proved to be futile and inflationary
in circumstances where rising costs are
being accelerated through underproduc-
tion, which was caused by the Chifley
Government’s “industrial legislation,” are
nothing to Mr. Ormonde.
Foreign affairs won’t lose votes, accord-
ing to this oracle. Dr. Evatt is “one
of the big men of U.N.0.,” and he
“cannot be the failure his critics say he
is, otherwise he would not be the head”
of U.N.O. That so many Australians
know that the Communist leaders of the
wharfies’ and seamen’s unions are even
bigger men than Dr. Evatt in foreign
affairs, and that so many regard U.N.O.
as a collection of babbling nomads, with
Dr. Evatt the biggest babbler of the lot,
again means nothing.
Ormondeisms, with obvious interjec-
tions :
It’s unreasonable to think the electors
will vote against a Government associated
with victory in war [That’s what the
Churchill Government thought].
Man is an inflationary being and doesn’t
mind paying 3s. for a Is. 6d. seat at the
pictures if he has the 3s. to pay. [ls he,
and doesn’t he, indeed? Has Mr. Ormonde
heard the howls of pain in Sydney, where
tram and bus fares' have been doubled by
a “Labor” Government?]
The Liberal party is remembered as the
Government associated with “No Men
Wanted” signs, dole-queues and low living
costs of the pre-war period. [Only by
those with bad memories who’ve forgotten
that the Scullin and Lang “Labor”' Gov-
ernments ruled in Canberra and Sydney re-
spectively in the worst depression days,
that a N.S.W. “Labor” Government intro-
duced the dole, and that it was not until
that Government was dismissed by Gover-
nor Game, after the Scullin Government
had been kicked out in Canberra, that
people began to go back to work and the
dole-queues disappeared.]
Thus lightly does Mr. Ormonde skim
over the thin ice, nervously avoiding
obstacles like housing, high taxation,
Communism, shortages of essential
materials, the overstuffed public service,
the colossal losses on “Labor”-run enter-
prises like T.A.A. and the Sydney trans-
port system, the whittling-away of com-
mon freedoms and a host of other things.
He believes that people are “not easily
ruffled by members’ indiscretions [“in-
discretions” is an inadequate word],
foreign affairs or whether banking should
be a public or private monopoly.”
But coal really disturbs Mr. Ormonde’s
equanimity:
Were it my job to direct Labor’s cam-
paign I would instruct every Labor poli-
tician, or prospective politician, to forget
Canberra and concentrate on Newcastle....
Unless industrial order is preserved between
now and November “Labor” could be seri-
ously embarrassed The great weakness
in Labor’s industrial armor is the N.S.W.
coalfields Almost every essential service,
the loss or diminution of which infuri-
ates people, depends on regular coal pro-
duction in Newcastle... .Coal is politics,
and can be dirty politics if not carefully
handled.-.. .Every shovelful of coal between
now and November means votes.
There it is. All the “Labor” bhoys have
to do is persuade, plead with, bully, bribe,
promise or by some means keep the
miners getting coal, and the “Golden Age”
is theirs. They shouldn’t, on any
account, be deterred by the thought that
the people have been “easily ruffled”
about other things.
"Quality and Equality."
At least one headmaster of a Great
Public School refuses to accept as in-
evitable the “hypnosis of mediocrity,”
or the resignation of Dr. Darling (of Gee-
long Grammar) to the “onset of egali-
tarianism,” which he (Dr. Darling) sug-
gests (B. 26/l/’49) that “we must accept.”
The dissenting headmaster is F. G.
Phillips, M.A., of Sydney Grammar. In
his booklet, Democracy and the Private
School,, Mr. Phillips says:
This comforting doctrine of human equality
has appealed to a large section of Australian
people, and, incidentally, is responsible for a
good deal of prevalent discourtesy and crudity
in the community. In essence democracy should
aim not at equality in its members, but at
greatness in its leaders and their followers. It
should develop all the qualities latent in man
sb that he may do that special work for which
he is fitted and to do which he has .been sent
into this world. In the company of great men
duty sings to us and life is invested with a dig-
nity in which we all may share. The great man
lives habitually at a height to which lesser men
rise rarely and with difficulty. He represents
the virtues of his nation, which rallies loyally
to him as England to Churchill. He is above
self-interest; he develops his own personality
for the benefit of others.
He is found as statesman or prophet, saint or
martyr, as well as in other spheres, for his acts
have relation defined and purposed to some-
thing beyond himself. As man of business he
esteems integrity above gain and will sacrifice
a profit for a principle. As artist or poet he
disdains to follow a fashion; he seeks to reveal
a form of beauty or express a truth which is
beauty or truth for him. He must be sincere,
even if in a minority, and by being so becomes
one with those whose sincerity has shaped the
destiny of mankind. A true democracy honors
such men and seeks to encourage their de-
velopment. But if we are content with a de-
mocracy in which our leaders are little men of
our own stature, holding their position only by
servile compliance with our changing whims, we
have already lost the prospect of national and
democratic greatness.
Mr. Phillips wrote that in 1945, and the
increased offensive of the egalitarians,
mostly Socialists and Communists, since
the end of World War II has not caused
his views to change.
White—But Empty.
On Australia Day the Australian
Natives’ Association’s smoke - social
in Melbourne brought, as usual, poli-
ticians of opposing political parties
into agreement on the need for active
effort to preserve and hold Australia as
a white nation. Mr. Calwell and Mr.
Holt, Mr. Hollway and Mr. Cain, were
heard demanding, in unison, that Aus-
tralians of whatever political belief should
pull together in this cause.
Their subject was the threat of an
almost-empty Australia being submerged
by a colored flood from Asia, a threat of
which has grown into a live, practical
issue. Mr. Calwell said so almost in so
many words. But the necessary united
effort involves much more than assent to
an immigration programme; it demands,
for instance, as General Savige said, an
all-party support of military training of
our young manhood and a really produc-
tive economic drive. This being so, were
the party spokesmen at the A.N.A. gather-
ing at heart any nearer agreement than
were Dr. Evatt’s young men and Pandit
Nehru at the recent Delhi conference?
Nehru said White Australia was all
right with him so long as it was “based
on an economic and not a racial plane,
but he added that in the long view it is
not modernly possible “to keep vast
continents undeveloped.” There can be
no doubt that the Indian leaders at least,
if not all Asians represented at Delhi,
regard the raising by Asia of the White
Australia question as only a matter of
time. When somebody said something
about the dry interior, Nehru replied,
“Look what the Jews have done with the
desert around the Dead Sea.”
Nor is the large-scale immigration
policy, of which “Labor” in this coun-
try has latterly become an advocate,
either a sufficient or a valid answer to
Dr. Evatt’s new-found Asian collabora-
tors. Such are the views of Mr. W. D.
Borrie, senior lecturer in social history and
social economics at Sydney University
(Continued at foot of next page.)


I
For your throat’s sake
CRAVENA
Always reliable
Obtainable In
10’s & 20’s
5905 E-E
CARRERAS LIMITED - OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY]
who has just expanded into a book,
Population Trends, and Policies (Aus-
tralasian Publishing Co.), his address be-
fore the Goulburn Summer School of
the Institute of Political Science in 1946.
The immigration policy alone is not suffi-
cient, he says, because there simply will
not be the desired 70,000 or so European
immigrants annually available for more
than a short term, unless we go to Russia
and the Balkans—much less the many
millions for which the A.N.A. meeting
hoped. Further, he says, immigra-
tion is not a valid answer to the pre-
sumptive Asian threat because:
If the Western peoples [including notably
Australia] continue to adopt the ninetfeenth-
century view that problems of “overpopula-
tion” can only be solved by moving people
to resources, they will strengthen the case
of those in the Asiatic countries who claim
living space for their undernourished
people The task of the Western peoples
is rather to prove to the East that with
modern technical and scientific development
the problem of overpopulation can best
be overcome by the movement of resources
to people, and not people to resources....
This is what Australia must do if she is
to avoid giving point to the Asiatic argu-
ment [for expansion overseas].... She must
add to her immigration policy support for
the policy of transferring resources to
people. She will be justified in conducting
a vigorous immigration policy only if she
also supports those who attempt to mini-
mise the need for mass migration among
the peoples of the world.
Theoretically, this is, perhaps, unim-
peachable. But how is it to be done
either with an Asia fired by the new en-
thusiasm for aggressive nationalism
against the West, and refusing to be
longer dominated by Western theories
for stabilising the status quo among world
races, or with an Australian community
politically debauched by Socialist theories
of a minimum of work for a maximum
of wages, and the limitation •of working
output as a preventive of possible future
unemployment?
Besides, time presses. Mr. Borrie
cannot really have much faith that his
complex recipe for reducing the popula-
tion and hunger-pressures within Asia —
entailing scientific birth-control, to be
induced through a hastened industrialisa-
tion and spread of literacy in Asiatic
countries —will be readily acceptable to
Asians. Their disposition today is to
beware the West when bearing gifts.
“Australia’s population policy,” he writes,
“must be linked with its foreign policy.”
Yes, but how? Especially if, as Dr.
Evatt lays down, our foreign policy is to
be built solely on an assumed paternal
interest of U.N.O. in our salvation as
a purely white continent?
General MacArthur’s new adviser from
Washington, Dr. Warren Thompson, an
American “population expert,” said the
other day on his arrival in Tokyo that
U.S.A., on whose support U.N.O. de-
pends, would have no interest in helping
to prevent Asian immigration into an un-
developed Australia.
POLITICAL POINTS
Nearly 60,000 men died fighting for
Australia in the First World War; close
on half that number in the Second. The
irony of it is that not one of them realised
he was not a citizen of the land he died
for.
The Joint Coal Board told coalminers
in N.S.W. to work on Monday—the
Anniversary Day holiday—rand said they
would get treble-time for it. The railway-
men whose job it is to haul the coal
thereupon decided that they wanted the
same concession, and, following the
miners’ way, refused to work the coal-
trains unless they got it. The Railways
Commissioner said they wouldn’t get it.
So the coal cut at triple cost on Mon-
day had to'be shifted on Tuesday, and
much of the coal that should have been
cut at ordinary cost on Tuesday wasn’t
cut at all, because it couldn’t be cut until
Monday’s coal was shifted. The Joint
Coal Board “spokesman” remarked that
this was a “serious loss to the com-
munity.” The J.C.B. is a dead loss to
the community.
Breaking a long silence, Frankie Forde
hit the cables on Saturday with the pro-
found statement that “Australia is the
greatest Antarctic Power in the world.”
Doesn’t the man realise that now Aus-
tralia is an Asiatic nation colonialism is
dead and that sort of boastful statement
is playing right into the hands of the
Free Penguin Movement?
Calwell, defending his deportation order
against an Indonesian woman and her
children —she is the widow of a man who
rendered exceptional service to the Allied
cause and is now married to an Australian
—claimed that no exceptions could be
made to Australia’s immigration policy or
the policy would cease to exist. It is a
specious argument. The White Australia
policy would gain in moral stature by a
display of ordinary humanity in excep-
tional cases such as this one, and Calwell
would gain in stature if he reversed his
decision. Pig-headed obstinacy is not
strength.
If Paul Hasluck, who is seeking Liberal
endorsement for the new Curtin (W.A.)
seat, gets into the Representatives there
may be a few more bright passages to
enliven the dull pages of “Hansard.” It
was Hasluck who, explaining his reasons
for resigning from Dr. Evatt’s External
Affairs Department, complained of the
“larrikin streak” in Australia’s (i.e.,
Evatt’s) foreign policy and deplored its
tendency to “change its plumage in mid-
flight.”
Balked in his attempt to force a form
of half-baked conscription on the 8.M.A,,
Senator McKenna is reported to have a
plan for using moral suasion on medical
students trained under the Rehabilitation
scheme. The story goes that before they
graduate students will be asked to what
extent they are prepared to assist the
Government’s free-medicine plan. Says
a “Sunday Herald” report:
The Government has no power whatever
to compel their co-operation, but the
Govefhment argues that many of the
students will feel they have a moral obli-
gation to assist.
Rehabilitation training is not a gift from
“Labor.” It was supported by all parties
and is in the nature of a return to ex-
servicemen for services rendered to the
country. In this respect medical training
is in no way different from training in
bricklaying, hairdressing or commercial
art. There is no moral obligation on the
part of any trainee to help implement
“Labor” policy. To suggest such a thing
is immoral in the extreme.
It was unfortunate for the anti-Dutch
crowd at Canberra that, just when people
were laughing at their latest outbreak of
imbecilities —particularly that of the Evatt
understudy Hodgson, who blithered that
the Dutch in JaVa and Sumatra were out-
Hitlering Hitler —there should have
arrived the lady whose charm and athletic
prowess have captured Australia. And
it is no use claiming Mrs. Blankers-Koen
as a racial connection of the anti-Dutch
crowd’s Briton-murdering proteges in
Palestine. The greatest Dutch Governor-
General of the East Indies was a Coen.
He himself, the founder of Batavia, was
hailed as a Jew. To this there is a refer-
ence in Vlekke’s History of the Dutch
Nation: “The silly attempt to attribute
Jewish origin to Governor-General Coen
—by deriving Coen from Cohen—only
betrays, a pitiful ignorance of the Dutch
language.”
In a Sydney case in which William
John Beckett and William Ellison Jones
were charged with having conspired to
cheat and defraud George Arthur Mc-
Bride of sums of money, a familiar name
cropped up. Mcßride alleged that in
January, 1946, he asked Beckett how he
would get materials for a building pro-
ject and that Beckett replied:
“You needn’t worry about that. I can
get what I want through Eddie, Ward.”
Mcßride said that Beckett had crossed two
fingers and added: “We are just like that
—with me on top. Have no fear about
tiles and so on.”
There was no supporting evidence of
the truth of the statement, nor did Mc-
Bride say whether he believed Beckett.
Nonetheless he averred that on the fol-
lowing day he parted up £750.
Canberra “Labor” is talking about tax-
cuts —from July 1, which is four months
further ahead of us than January 1 is
behind us. The Treasury’s opulence is
no news to Cabinet, and a decision could
have been made in December for the new
rates to start from the first day of 1949.
That is, if there had been any real
“Labor” concern for taxpayers. But
“Labor’s” only concern is for its electoral
prospects at the end of this year. It has
sullenly refused to refund to taxpayers
a sum equal to the price-subsidies it
abandoned in 1948.
Tramway and gas-company employees
are to be paid double rates for working
on Sundays. Absenteeism on week-days
will now become chronic. Anyway,
neither industry will get the results hoped
for. It is enough to say that the Com-
munists asked for the “double time,” as
well as for a 35-hour week and a rise of
30s. a week in the minimum tramway
wage.
New Zealand’s Peter Fraser sees the
world as suffering from an attack of
measles, “with spots all over, and those
spots ‘red.’ ” Mr. Chifley, to whom the
Red Blight is “a political philosophy,”
would probably consider that measles is
a complaint to be cured by faith-healing.
Those Chinese —and Chiang Kai-shek
was one of them—who at intervals in the
past have demanded the clearing-out from
China of all British influence will be suf-
fering just now a periodical change of
mind. Just as Dr. Wellington Koo, a
fervent nationalist of this kidney, was glad
in 1922 to flee for personal safety into the
British concession port of Wei-hai-wei,
so Chiang’s brother-in-law, Dr. T. V.
Soong, is now a refugee in Hong Kong,
and glad the place is not Chinese, as
Chiang demanded not so long ago.
Chiang himself may yet seek sanctuary
to Hong Kong, too, if his Communist
adversaries are bent on his arrest as a
“war criminal” before they will consider
a peace settlement.
Mr. Calwell, dripping democracy as
usual, announced during the week-end
that if “Labor” won the next election it
would be in power till 1960 and that,
even if it didn’t, the Government which
defeated it would not be able to imple-
ment any mandate which it had been
given to destroy banking and other totali-
tarian legislation because “Labor” would
have a majority of at least three in the
Senate under the cunning system of elec-
tion which it has devised. Two of the
three, judging by the N. S. Wales selec-
tions, might be Senator (“Coca
Cola”) Amour and Senator Donald
Grant, author of Through Six Jails.
It is no wonder the Chifley Government
finds itself cut out for natural companion-
ship with barbarous totalitarian Asiatic
States which rule by force.
Most people have had the experience
of thinking of the right thing to say
when it is too late to say , it. John
Belcher, formerly Parliamentary secretary
to the Board of Trade, was reported to
have said on reading the Lynskey Tri-
bunal’s report: “I can’t accept it.” Now
if he had only said that when Stanley
began plying him with gifts!
A jockey who left Sydney on Monday
for a trip to England, where he intends
to ride in horseraces, was given Govern-
ment credentials, “under the seal and sig-
nature of the State Premier, Mr. Mc-
Girr,” Nothing could be more appropri-
ate.
“Australia’s economy had been retarded
by a deliberate Communist policy in
heavy industry, coal and maritime organi-
sations. Communists created strikes
which were without justification, and were
not based on conflict between employer
and employee.” Who said that? Menzies?
The chairman of 8.H.P.? No, C. G.
Fallon, Queensland secretary of the
Australian Workers’ Union.
Melbourne records further signs of a
stiffening in Victorian unions against
Communist control. Six months ago the
Bricklayers’ Union cut its affiliation with
the Communist-bossed Building Workers’
Industrial Union, and now the plasterers
and fibrous-plasterers have decided to
break away from the same octopus organi-
sation. All of these bodies have objected to
“workers being led along the path of direct
action,” and specifically to the blacklisting
of Housing Commission jobs and other
work in persecution of certain individual
bricklayers. Incidentally, the 8.W.1.U.
has just lifted a 12-months ban on certain
Melbourne firms which caused it to be de-
registered by the Federal Arbitration
Court last August. Its Communist bosses
have taken their time over obeying a mass
meeting’s resolution last year that it
should seek re-registration in the court.
Canada intends to bring in legislation
to abolish appeals to the Privy Council,
making the Canadian Supreme Court the
final court of appeal for Canadian citi-
zens. It is a plank of the Federal “Labor”
platform to bring in a similar measure
here —or it was until the High Court
turned down the Bank Grab Act.
The Commonwealth Statistician has
discovered that between July 1, 1946, and
June 30, 1947, we got through nearly
120,000,000 gallons of beer, or just on
16 gallons for every man, woman and
child of the population. ■* Since few
children drink, and nowhere near as many
women as men, it’s a fair assumption
that every man got through 20 gallons.
Deducting teetotallers, plonk artists,
und reformed drunkards from that, it
seems that every male adult citizen should
at least have got his 20 gallons. Those
who couldn’t get any for long periods
are invited to write to the Minister for
Citizenship about it.
The Victorian Premier has told his
people that it doesn’t seem fair that rail
passengers might have another increase
in fares while tram passengers are un-
affected. His opposite number in New
South Wales sees that nothing like that
happens.
In the last few days several countries,
including Britain and New Zealand, have
accorded de facto recognition to Israel;
Canberra has gone a step further —out
of step as usual —with full recognition.
The countries granting de facto status
have done so on the ground that de jure
recognition cannot be given until the
boundaries of the new State are finally
decided. There is a strong group in Israel
which advocates Jewish sovereignty over
the whole of Palestine and Transjordan.
Its Australian supporters, who refer to
the Archbishop of Canterbury as “noth-
ing but a political butler in ecclesiastical
disguise,” said a couple of months ago:
There should be no hesitation on the
part of Israel as soon as she is ready to
throw out the Arab aggressors from Pales-
tine and to rejoin Transjordan to Western
Palestine. There is nothing to fear from
Britain in such a course because external
circumstances prevent her intervention, and
America would scarcely intervene to throw
Israel willy-nilly into the hands of Russia
.... so Israel has a golden opportunity.
If the Ben Gurion Government heeds
that sort of talk or is supplanted by the
people who * advocate it, where does Aus-
tralia stand in relation to Britain’s treaty
with Transjordan?


THE PIPER OF CANBERRA.
“Australia now has more than three times as many Commonwealth civil servants as it had ten years ago, and the rabbit plague is another
"Australia now at presen t afflicting the country.”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Jasby”: With his strong views on the
ruthlessness of motorists, “J.F.” (B.
12/1/’49) should be interested in a little
one-act drama of real life enacted in a
Hobart suburb. A dog was bowled over
by a car, whereupon, it is recorded, he
“got to his feet, rushed at Sylvia Barrow,
14, one of four girls who were walking
along the footpath, bit her severely, and
then fell dead.” Sylvia, who had to have
several stitches put in her leg, deserves
sympathy, but I cannot find it in my heart
to censure the dog. His time was short
and he had none to waste in discrimina-
tion ; he merely took prompt though
inadequate revenge on the nearest human
he could reach. The history of dogs goes
back at least as far as that of man, and
the right of the species to walk the King’s
highway has never been disputed; in-
deed, the race has by time-honored
custom virtually established its right to
doze thereon if so inclined ; a privilege
which no sober man, to my knowledge,
has yet claimed. Johnny-come-lately
motorists should remember that they are
permitted to use the roads only on suffer-
ance and subject to the observance of
certain rules as to speed-limits, etc.
Pedestrians and dogs are bound by no
such rules; they walk the roads by in-
herent right. I trust Sylvia will bear no
ill-feeling against the dog and will realise
that she was merely the scapegoat for
mechanised man.
* * * *
“Findy”: Without taking sides in the
controversy whether or not .the half-caste
children should have been moved from
Mulgoa (N.S.W.), I must take umbrage—
and very dark umbrage, too —at the im-
plied insults to my former home-town in
Sydney press comments about the move.
Tile boys are reported to be going to a
home at Semaphore (S.A.), and the sug-
gestion is that they will not be nearly so
well-off there as at Mulgoa. I spent
portion of my boyhood at The Semaphore
—the definite article was part and parcel
of the name in those days, as it was of
The Grange, another Adelaide beach a
few miles further along the sea-front—
and was a pupil of the primary and high
schools which the half-caste lads will how
attend. The beach the youngsters will
play on is a children’s paradise. When
the tide is high it is safe even for non-
swimmers ; at low tide there is a vast area
of hard sand on which cricket or football
can be played or bikes or horses ridden —
if the authorities allow it nowadays. I
have even seen a land-yacht—a con-
trivance on three bicycle-wheels, rigged
with jib and mainsail, skimming along the
mile-long stretch from The Semaphore to
Largs. Now, if the kiddies had been sent
to Coogee or St. Kilda, that might have
been a different matter.
* * * *
“R. Volt”: Now that the entire text of
“Gone with the Wind” has been trans-
mitted through space by means of high-
speed photography, radar and television
in one minute —equivalent to a million
words per minute—the early achieve-
ments of the old cable-station which has
just been closed down in Adelaide sound
like something from the age of the dino-
saurus. The Eastern Extension opened
the Adelaide-Perth-Cocos route in 1902
to a tremendous fanfare of trumpets, and
the usual congratulatory telegrams were
exchanged at the tremehdous rate of 140
letters a minute, about the maximum in
those days when messages had to be
copied out by hand and relayed at about
ten to a dozen intermediate stations be-
fore they reached London. An operator
who could pump a key at 180 l.p.m. was
regarded as a virtuoso in the class of
Backhaus, and when the Melbourne Cup
result was passed to London in eight
minutes the co. did a great skite. Yet
the cables did an enormous amount of
business, and during World War I the
“N-N” or finish signal wasn’t seen on
Cocos for four years. The cable which
the Emden landing-party cut—£soo,ooo-
- of copper, brass, steel and gutta-
percha—will presumably be .left to the
barnacles and the teredo on the floor of
the ocean.
“Zake”: “Close Call for Trades
Hall! ” As my eye caught the newspaper
heading I blanched. A Trades Hall in
danger! Tremblingly I read on. It was
the Adelaide Trades Hall, and what a
thrillingly narrow escape! It appears
Mumsies little pet. Did the big, awkward thing hurt her ?”
that, as Mistair Dedman was scheduled
to address trade-unionists in the august
edifice that day, the secretary of the
Trades Hall had made a minute inspec-
tion. Whether this was a search for a
possible Tory bomb was not disclosed.
Suddenly he noticed smoke, and investi-
gated. Then he discovered a quantity
of sawdust smouldering in a back room.
Now anyone who knows the frightful
inflammability of smouldering sawdust
will appreciate the awful situation. Why,
had the secretary dallied for more than
three days before giving the alarm the
sawdust may even have smouldered
through and charred an iron pipe or some-
thing! The Minister for Post-War Non-
Construction will be able to bore his
grandchildren in years to come with the
story of his thrillingly narrow escape.
* * * *
“Helldud”: The sinking of the 60-year-
old tug Victor in Sydney Harbor recalls
the days when the veteran, newly
launched, was the pride of the Watson’s
Bay Ferry Company. Other units of the
fleet were Oceania and Bee. The trip
from Watson’s Bay to Circular Quay
took over an hour, was quite a voyage,
with calls at Vaucluse, Steel Point, Hunt’s
Pier, Rose Bay, Seven Shilling Beach,
Double Bay and Elizabeth Bay. If I
remember rightly the fare was sixpence.
* * * *
“Hist”: “En Extra” (B. 19/l/’49) is
probably being unjust in blaming some
postal employee for pilfering the Japan-
ese stamps he stuck on his letter from
New Guinea. More likely they were re-
moved by the censor. During the war
a cult for collecting “war covers” grew
among stamp-collectors because of their
historical interest, but Security took a
dim view of the craze, fearing that it
offered a loophole for the leakage of
information about the location of the
Forces. Accordingly a Security Regula-
tioii made it unlawful for anyone but the
addressee to have in his possession enve-
lopes bearing Service markings, censor-
marks, etc. Incidentally, the post-office
frowns on the sticking of foreign stamps,
fancy stickers, and so on, on the face
of the envelope. But if you still have
any of the old pre-Federation Australian
State stamps they are still Valid for the
prepayment of postage at their face-value.
“Muskeen”: Jack Ketch (B. 19/1/’49)
was a very busy man during the last
century, customers being turned off
two and sometimes three at a
time. Milsom tried to escape the gallows
by informing on Fowler, his partner in
the Muswell Hill murder, but failed and
received a terrific beating from Fowler
in the dock, while they were waiting for
the jury’s verdict. Seaman, the White-
chapel murderer, standing between them
on the drop on June 9, 1896, remarked
to the hangman that it was the first time
he had been a “bloody peacemaker.”
* # * *
“Terence L.”: The supernatural
achievements of Flash Boredom, Duper-
man and the rest are nothing new. The
mighty exploits of these comic-strip
characters were anticipated 40 years ago
in an English quasi-comic weekly, the
“Wonder,” ,by the Winged Man —an
athletic, bat-winged figure clad from head
to toe in black tights, and whose vital
presence spelt woe to the evildoer and
reward for the virtuous. No explanation
was offered as to what method of pro-
pulsion operated thb swift one’s gigantic
pinions. Possibly an early form of atomic
energy did the trick. On top of the
noble fellow’s head was a light, some-
thing like a miner’s-lamp, but more often
in use and much more powerful. It
was capable of penetrating walls, win-
dow-blinds and even women’s minds.
These things were taken for granted,
and delighted our boyhood years.
* * * *
“Pawang”: An argument that de-
veloped in a Melbourne caf£ many years
ago and more recently kept “Society”
writers busy for several weeks has cropped
up again in the port of Hull, England. The
Melbourne discussion started when a
diminutive fellow asserted that he could
move an ocean-liner away from a wharf
merely by pushing the monster. Greeted
with a howl of derision, he offered to give
a demonstration if the company
assembled would pay the cost of a taxi
down to Port Melbourne; nobody took
up the challenge. According to the cable,
a railway policeman levered a 10,000-
ton vessel away from the wharf with a
piece of timber in order to release a
mongrel dog wedged between the ship
and the quayside. I’m sorry now I
didn’t cough up for the taxi.
* * * #
“Esau” : Joe was the butcher, J.P. and
coroner in a small town in western
Queensland. One day he was on the
Bench to hear a case for assault and
battery. Asked for his story the defendant
said: “It’s this way, your Worship. It was
a fair fight. He drank my beer at the
pub. And, what’s more, I’ve never been
licked in a fair fight in my life. If your
Worship does lock me up I’ll give you
the father of a hiding when I get out.”
The J.P. stood up and took off his coat.
“It’s a powerful good argument,” he
barked, “but the Court won’t admit the
last part. The prisoner will please step
out on to the grass, and when the law is
finished with him his mother won’t know
him.” She didn’t. Even when he left the
lock-up 24 hours later.
“S.W.K.”: The rule of keep-to-the-left
on crowded Sydney footpaths has been a
joke for years, but lately there have ap-
peared on some of the paths a yellow
centre-line and the legend “keep left,”
and the silent instruction is generally be-
ing observed. Though it doesn’t appear
to be strictly policed by the men in blue,
it seems to have inspired in at least one
citizen a crusading spirit to inculcate a
respect for it in others. I was made aware
of this rudely on a recent day when, weav-
ing my way near the kerb in Hunter-
street, against some keep-lefters, I sud-
denly found myself confronted by a
forbidding-visaged, middle-aged female
with an outsize chassis. I made to go
around her, but she anticipated the move ;
I went the other way—she sidestepped.
“The rule is keep to the left!” she
boomed in a voice that was a combina-
tion of Schnozzle Durante, Senator Ash-
ley and a concrete-mixer. By the time
I’d closed my mouth again and rustled
up a really scorching bit of repartee the
battle-axe had moved on, to loom up
against other errant male pedestrians and
admonish them. I have a large ac-
quaintance, all bony shoulders and
elbows, whose favorite outdoor sport is
barging through peak-hour crowds. I
intend to haunt Hunter-street with him,
If the two meet it should be an interesting
contest.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: Globetrotters of an earlier
generation will be surprised to hear that
the venerable Dr. Karl Baedeker is still
alive and kicking and contemplates re-
suming publication of the famous guide-
books which were started by his ancestor
in 1827 and were kept continuously up
to date except during the two world wars.
The variety of information in them was
astounding. The London issue of 1896
contains a minute description of the
Elgin marbles, what you should tip the
“boots” at the hotels whose dining-rooms
were called coffee-rooms and whose
charges ranged from Bs. a day to 205.,
that the Cock in Fleet-street served chops,
steaks, kidneys and good stout, that the
beer was better than the wine and cost a
penny-halfpenny a glass or sixpence a
quart, and that the stranger would be
ill-advised in going to any unrecom-
mended house near Leicester-square for
obvious reasons. Herr Karl let me down
on only one occasion. His infallible
Bible informed me that the cheapest
hotel for students or impecunious tourists
was the Hotel Garibaldi in a dingy back
street in Milan. Hiring a taxi I went
there and was instantly swept into the
maw of a glittering caravanserai full of
uniformed bandits with their hands out,
and I emerged with nothing but my pants
on and a pocket-book so depleted I had
to wire to London to get my fare to the
next city. War prosperity, 1914-18 vin-
tage, had converted the obscure hostelry
into the most expensive pub in Milan.
**• * *
“Bumblepup”: Football is so dan-
gerous. “But no need,” said a member of
the visiting team at the conclusion of a
match at Pirbright (England), rubbing his
shin as he spoke, “to add to its risks by
leaving bits of metal sticking up out of
the ground.” The secretary and grounds-
man hastened to inspect. The reproof
was merited: the bit of metal was dis-
tinctly trip-causing. Next day they dug—
and called in the police to finish the job.
The match had been played over a live
bomb.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: The action of the censor
in marking “Oliver Twist” as unsuitable
for general exhibition raises the same
question as was raised in one of last
year’s obscenity trials in Melbourne.
Dickens’s novel isn’t marked as unsuit-
able for general reading, and is to be
found in most school libraries. What
can be described verbally can equally
well be described visually, and a film is,
broadly speaking, a visual description.
Two of the incidents objected to as being
unfit for child consumption in the Twist
film are the murder of Nancy by Bill
Sikes, and the demonstration by one of
Fagin’s pupils of the gentle art of picking
pockets. It is argued that children would
be much more likely to become pick-
pockets through seeing the film than by
reading the novel. But a written word
can conjure up a picture just as much as
a producer of movies. The word “man”
is nothing like a man, but when we see it
it automatically brings to our minds a
certain image which will be determined
by our associations. If we didn’t know
the language or had had no previous ex-
perience of men it would, of course, have
no meaning. Hence a verbal account of
a pocket being picked will conjure up
images in a child’s mind determined by
his associations just as definitely as a film,
and in each case he will react for or
against the symbol according to his
associations. The film is no more likely
to produce Sikeses or Artful Dodgers
than the novel.
THE ARCHIBALD PRIZE.
What a regular theme year by year it supplies
For wrangles and quarrels, this Archibald Prize!
What angry discussions it’s certain to start
On what is or isn’t legitimate art,
And whether it does or it doesn’t fulfil
The purpose the donor outlined in his will.
So it’s safe to predict that, whoever may win
The judge’s award and walk off with the tin,
A conflict of tongues and of pens will ensue,
A wild and a woolly old hullabaloo.
Can a caricature be a portrait? You hear
Some stickler for grammar demand with a sneer,
Though seemingly experts these efforts who
scan
Have left us no possible doubt that it can.
' Another will ask why the prize-packet goes
To a picture of somebody nobody knows,
When Archibald’s aim was set, firmly and
fast,
On handing the future a page from the past.
Hence hot disputations cause tempers to rise
About the award of the Archibald Prize.
Then the artists chip in, true to form and to
style,
The few to applaud what the many revile,
And erudite critics acclaim or asperse
What some reckon bonzer —and more the re-
verse.
Where some find a masterpiece others condemn
As a daub that is wholly abhorrent to them,
While the jargon with which their opinions
they deck
Is such as gives laymen a pain in the neck.
It’s an apple of discord as well, I surmise,
As a coveted trophy, the Archibald Prize.
We poets from Horace the label have got
Of being an unduly excitable lot,
Irritabile genus —“thin-skinned” would describe
More aptly perhaps what he thought of the
tribe.
Yet artists are worse. Can they never agree
To whom the distinction awarded should be
When they meet in these pleasantly ordered
affairs
To show us their skill and exhibit their wares'?
Or why do such storms of dissentient cries
Ever follow awards of the Archibald Prize?
N.S.W.
ale
T. THE R.


“Edmund”: Not only English novelists
make boners about Australia (B.
19/1 /’49). Belgian Maeterlinck said
some extraordinary things in The Life
of the White Ant. A few examples:
“In one night the creatures ate the shirt
off a man’s back while he slept.” And
again: “A farmer in Queensland will
leave a cart in a meadow at evening.
Next morning all he finds is iron.” “A
planter will return to his house after five
or six days’ absence. All is as it was.
Nothing seems changed or suggestive of
enemy occupation. He sits down on a
chair. It collapses. He tries to catch
hold of the table. It falls flat on the
floor. He leans against the beam in the
centre; it comes away, dragging the
whole roof down in a cloud of dust.”
Either Maeterlinck was giving rein to his
imagination or he had his leg pulled
magnificently.
* * * *
“Plop”: A Sydney newspaper has
been getting worked-up over the actions
of a milking-machine, believed to be mad,
and operating at Tarcutta (N.S.W.). Last
week after several days of inactivity the
machine was reported to have sprung into
life again, hurling its 31oz. pulsator plates
upwards of 250 yards and bettering its
previous record by 100 yards. Pending
an official explanation by the C.5.1.R.,
I am inclined to favor the romantic sug-
gestion put forward by “a Balt migrant”
that the machine itself is blameless for its
disgraceful behavior —spirits are the
cause. I know it, and have a friend who
knows it, and who, when he met one
recently, very nearly jumped 250 yards
himself. He was walking through the
customary cemetery short-cut late last
Saturday night when he heard a scuffling
in a crypt and then a voice he swears
was pure spirit demanding “What’s the
time?” He replied “1949,” adding as an
afterthought, “A.D.” He is not sure that
the spirit heard the last bit, as by then
he was over the fence and half-way across
the road.
**' * *
“Craiser”: A trip from Melbourne to
Sydney and back for 2s. 7d. was the
brightest achievement in scoutcraft of
the recent lamboree. The 14-year-oldster
responsible for the exploit was Boy Scout
Edwin Rowe, of Launceston. Bound
from Wonga Park for the ship that was
to take him back to the Apple Island,
he changed his course and made for
Sydney. He hitchhiked along the
Prince’s Highway, getting free meals all
the way, and was taking/ an interested
look at the Harbor City when the police,
after combing two States, copped him in
a suburb. The youth explained that he
had intended to hitchhike back via the
Hume Highway, and was considerably
surprised that there had been any fuss
about him.
* * * *
“Bo”: The mystery that has long in-
trigued visitors to Taslnania of the native-
born sitting on rocks and pulling from
the seabed with rakes masses of sea-
weed, after masticating which they hap-
pily weave their way homewards singing
“Sweet Adeline ” has at last been cleared
up, and the origin of the term “beer-
chewer” definitely settled, by the dis-
closure at the recent Science Congress
in Hobart that Tassie seaweed contains
the basic ingredients of beer. Keen
pleasure that the Booze industry can thus
be assisted is naturally felt by the island’s
Socialist Government, and no doubt every
assistance will be given to establishing
another branch of an industry which is
regarded by all our Socialist Govern-
ments as of equal importance with the
other two great basic industries, racing
and the lott’ry. Establishment pf a sea-
weed-beer industry is certain to give extra
employment to the legal profession by
the establishment of a Royal Commission
to decide the inevitable demarcation dis-
pute between the Seaweed Pullers’ Union
and the Miners’ Federation when the
Federation claims that, as strictly speaking
seaweed is “mined,” it will be its prero-
gative to arrange for all the strikes. As
seaweed-beer should be able to be pro-
duced at about id. a pint cost, retail
price should be even as low as lid. a
“Only got it last Week and it's developed a squeak already.”
pint,, thus allowing 3d. a pint clear profit
for the brewers after the Federal Govern-
ment has helped itself to the Excise. But
perhaps the greatest boon to be expected
by the Tassie Government from the dis-
closure is the extra fillip given to the
tourist industry from drinkers from some
other States who long for a change from
chemicals.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: At a Lud Mayoral re-
ception in Melbourne the English women
cricketers gratefully mentioned the com-
pliments paid to their prowess in Adelaide
by Dcfi Bradman, but spoke so modestly
about their own achievements that it was
obvious they accepted the traditional
view of the basic inferiority of women.
One praised the high standard of feminine
cricket reached by both sidas in the
course of the tour and confidently asserted
that it had reached its highest point and
could go no higher. This is contrary to
the principle of evolution. No one
woman can slog or bowl a ball as well
as some men, but all the skirted warriors
present can do it better than most men.
Since what has been is no Criterion of
what may be, there is no reason in the
world why some one woman may not
be able to do it better than all men. If
and when that happens the Test selec-
tors will be faced with the same problem
as the clergy. They’ll probably die of
apoplexy.
*** * *
“Joskin”: The transatlantic chief
steward (B. 19/1/’497 is not a modern
Bully Hayes, nor is he the A 1 Capone of
the seven seas. He is a highly-efficient
executive, controlling the largest depart-
ment on board ship, comprising stewards,
“ Thanks , mate.”
stewardesses, barmen, storemen,
musicians, cooks, butchers and bakers,
and is responsible for the whole of the
domestic requirements of the vessel. His
department is self-contained ; all clerical
work connected with it is done by him.
For this purpose he is supplied with a
fully-equipped office, but no clerical
staff; yet he is required to work out his
victualling rate to four points of deci-
mals, in addition to store-books, stock-
books, bar accounts, Customs-sheets,
postage bills, staff reports, etc., which
isn’t a bad effort for a domestic servant.
The chauffeur-driven limousine is there
all right. It belongs to a sanatorium and
is waiting to take him on a few days’
well-earned rest from the petulant drool-
ings of grown-ups who have lost their
all-day suckers or whose nurses have for-
gotten the diaper-pins.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: Included in the responsi-
bilities imposed upon publicans (and now
invariably shelved) in return for the
profitable licence to sell booze was the
provision of a common-room, warmed by
a fire in the winter, where any traveller
was entitled to shelter from the storm or
rest weary feet, whether he wanted to
drink or not. The law has co-operated
to wipe out this provision. In a pub
reC ently a barman, on a direction from
the cash desk, asked a man who had been
leaning against the wall, not drinking,
to go ; he made an objection and a cop
ordered him out. A plainclothes man
who was with me scouted my suggestion
that the whole proceeding was illegal. It
appears that anybody who “loiters” in
a bar-room may be suspected of intention
to cgmmit some offence and treated
accordingly. Apparently if you dont
Sr must 1,6 TV as a T
SSiS
being situated in a row down the centre
0 f t b e platform, might impede the Royal
passage from train to cars. Their re-
moVal would also, no doubt, afford an
uninterrupted view of the sooty railway
bridge and other adjacent structures, and
ma ke the station appear exactly like
every other dingy replica of it. What
h.M. would have thought of the senseless
destruction was naturally never con-
sidered.
*,* . *
“X.S”: This heavy-equipment age
threatens to produce a new race of joy-
riders. The police-patrol was called to
Albert Park, Melbourne, early one Sun-
day morning to investigate an uproar
which was preventing residents from en-
joying their lawful slumbers. Two youths
were found operating a bulldozer which
had been left on the beach after being
used to clear thousands of tons of stink-
ing mussels washed up by a storm. The
first hit-and-run bulldozist is expected to
appear in the courts shortly.
* * * *
“Clooter”: After seeing Hollywood
versions of the way justice is administered
in American courts I always hoped 1
would never have to seek it there. But
published descriptions of the scene in the
Paris court at the opening of the Krav-
chenko libel case make Hollywood seem
correct and formal by comparison. At
one stage, we are told, Kravchenko wa-,
shotting in Russian and shaping up to
fight, his interpreter shouted in French, a
defendant shouted, his lawyer also
shouted, a policeman yelled at a camera-
man, a man in the gallery hooted in
German. The court president “waited
patiently for the noise to subside.” It
reminds me of the time when, seated in
the public gallery of a N.S.W. court, I
moved during a moment of silence and
my shoe scraped the floor. “Silence!”
roared the officiating police-inspector.
“Constable, Sf anybody else up there
makes a noise, throw him out. This is a
court of British justice, not a public bar-
room.”
* * * *
“Bula”: Niuafo’ou, the volcanic island
500 miles n.-e. of Nukualofa, is reported
to be in eruption again, but as the whole
population of 1300 were evacuated
(mostly against their wishes) last year, the
Tongan Government is no longer con-
cerned, the evacuees having settled down
comfortably on the island of Eua, a
Utopia previously uninhabited. Famous
for its “tin-can” mail, Niuafo’ou has
provided philatelists and collectors with
thousands of covers, the romantic con-
ception of the mail being carried through
shark-infested waters to the waiting ship
catching the imagination of collectors and
giving the covers an enhanced value.
Actually there has been no swimming
since 1931, when one of the bearers was
taken by a shark, the only attack in 15
years. Since then the mail has been
carried out in canoes. During the evacua-
tion one enterprising passenger, shrewd
enough to realise this was the end of the
tin-can mail, had a thousand covers
stamped and addressed. To make them
legitimately “tin-can” they were sealed in
a biscuit-tin and thrown overboard,
attached to a rope. Hauled aboard, the
letters were rubber-stamped and authenti-
cated as being the final “tin-can” mail
taken from the sea at Niuafo’ou. Dunno
what they are worth now, but I would
like to have their appreciated value in 10
years.
* * * *
“Kimat”: West Australian wildflowers
(B. 12/1/’49)? On a first visit to Perth
at the end of November, I was dis-
appointed to find I had’ missed them by
a fortnight. Then I was delighted
to find in an Art Gallery a magnificent
display of cut blooms, with their rich
color and their variety of unfamiliar
form. Close inspection, however, re-
vealed that the “flowers” were fashioned
of wire woven over with wool, a crafts-
man’s skill and a naturalist’s accuracy
making of them true models.
* * * *
“T. McN.”: There were five non-bear-
ing Lisbon lemon-trees in the shire of
Hornsby (N.S.W.) in 1944 ; in the same
year the shire of Jemalong was totally
devoid of cherry-trees, though the neigh-
boring Weddin shire had two Early Lyons
in bearing and one unidentified cherry. I
publish this information with some pride,
since I am now in a position to inform
whoso desireth it as to the mimber of
pome, stone- and citrus-fruit trees in
orchards of one acre or more, exclusive
of the Murrumbidgee Irrigation Areas, in
the shires and municipalities of N.S.W.
from Abercrombie to Yarrowlumla.
Every man likes to be an authority of
some sort, and, thanks to tables supplied
by the N.S.W. Department of Agriculture,
I can now settle bets arising from argu-
ments on the above matter. This doesn’t
mean that I am able to supply indignant
housewives with the reasons for the fruit
being (a) off the market, ( b) thrice as
dear as it ought to be, or (c) too green or
overripe when you get it. The answers to
those questions rest on what the foreign
correspondents call “highei; levels.” As
to the purpose of the census of the fruit-
trees and the compilation of the tables
arising therefrom, it is obvious that it
is so that blokes like myself can settle
arguments with blokes like you.
* * * *
“Narsty Norm”: Tell “Jemac” (B.
19/1/’49) that food does not move
through the human form by force of
gravity. The original designer, apparently
anticipating the plight of the space-cruiser,
installed a system of muscular contrac-
tion and expansion to urge the nourish-
ment along its route to the ultimate end.
The fathers of our language gave the
system the unlovely name of peristalsis.
* * * *
“Mossgiel”: January 13 was the 90th
anniversary of the Victorian Government
railways, but not of railway transport in
Victoria (B. 19/l/’49). When that loco-
motive left Spencer-street for Williams-
town in 1859 Melbourne already had a
network of suburban railways, built by
three private companies; they served
Port Melbourne, St. Kilda, Hawthorn,
Prahran and Brighton, and there was a
country line to Geelong, with its city
terminus at Greenwich Pier on the Yarra
at Newport. “Melbn’s” story of the first
locomotive used in Melbourne is correct,
but the engine drew its first train to Sand-
ridge (Port Melbourne) in September,
1854, and was owned by the Hobson’s
Bay Railway Company.
IRRESPONSIBLE TRIPE.
“A certain Colonel Hodgson, one of Dr. Evatts
hrigtit young diplomats, who told U.N.O. that the
Dutch had behaved as barbarously in Indonesia as
Hitler when he attacked Holland, was rebuked in
the House of Lords (by a peer with half a life-
time’s official experience of conditions in the
N.E.1.) for ‘talking irresponsible tripe.’ ”
Irresponsible tripe! What a wealth it conveys
Of acid contempt to be packed in a phrase!
What a punch it implies in the ribs or the snout
For a chap whose remarks leave no shadow of
doubt „ .
That he doesn’t know what he’s been talking
about ,
To be told in vernacular pungent and ripe
That his yappings are just irresponsible tripe.
It isn’t the sort of description of course
You’d look for from such an illustrious source,
But even a peer when he happens to strike
Some vile propaganda that gives him the spike
Can use any figure of speech he may like
For the bloke who’s annoyed him to put in his
pipe
And smoke it — e.g., irresponsible tripe.
Come, Evatt, speak up! Have you nothing to
say f
To this henchman of yours who went out or
his way . ,
To insult the good neighbors and allies who
bore „ ,
With us all the burden and heat of the war
By drawing comparisons savage and sore
’Twixt them and the thugs of the Hitlerite type.
No comment on such irresponsible tripe?
What, nothing? Well, maybe when Parliament
meets
We’ll hear a bit more of this ojator’s feats.
From our U.N.O. team I suggest we should wipe
The fellows who talk irresponsible tripe.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


lit
111
111
I
1
%m
mi
§
■
:
IIS
H
SEALED UNIT
Efficiency
• Super-powered sealed unit.
• No oiling.
• No valves to shut down.
© Economical running.
• Larger storage space.
© Bigger door basket.
• “Crispashelf”—crisper food
less tainting.
See your local dealer.
Southern
Cross
REFRIGERATORS
SYDNEY
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
62 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
f tyr
Your choice is CINZANO
Vermouth, whether your taste is for
sweet or dry. CINZANO Vermouth
gives just that extra exhilarating tang
to the palate.
I
‘.lilt
-i- - •
°*sr
°UTH
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Associated Newspapers (Sydney)
t Dividends ,
Net Pref.* Ord. To Re- Nom. Re-
Sept., Profit. 5.4 p.c. 5.4 p.c. serves, serves.f
£/ & £ £> £>
1941.. 180,956 80,956 58,120 41,880 236,347
To staff fund, £5OOO 231,347
3 p.c.
1942.. 115,624 80,956 32,140 2,528 233,875
To staff fund, £2290 .. .. .. 231,585
6.4 p.c.
1943.. 186,941 80,956 58,120 47,865 279,450
To staff fund, £7331 272,119
1944.. 207,323 80,956 58,120 68,246 340,365
To staff fund, £15,000 325,365
6 p.c.
1945.. 200,468 80,956 63,566 65,946 391,311
To staff fund, £15,000 376,311
From tax reserve, etc., £28,000 .. 404,311
1946.. 200,651 80,956 63,566 66,129 470,440
To staff fund, £15,000 456,440
1947.. 202,995 80,956 63,566 68,473 523,913
To staff fund, £20,000 .. .. .. 503,913
1948.. 195,314 80,956 63,566 60,792 664,705
To staff fund, £20,000 544,705
* Pref. div (7 p.c.) subject to statutory cut of 22J
p.c. from October 1, 1931. f Reserves subject to book-
value of goodwill ( £1,500,000) and patents ( £960).
Not a bad showing, all things con-
sidered. The dollar shortage compelled
the co. to restrict usage of imported news-
print to 57 p.c. of the 1939 tonnage as
against about 50 p.c. in the previous term.
This meant smaller-sized newspapers and
periodicals, with a consequent drop in
advertising revenue. At the same time
the cost of paper and other materials
continued to rise, and so did wages, and
there was a shrinkage in the return from
investments.
To step-up sales of the two chief profit-
earners (“Daily Sun” and “Sunday Sun”)
and launch a new shilling monthly
(“Glamor”), the circulation of two
established weeklies (“Woman” and
“Pix”) was curtailed:
Average sales six months end Sept.
< * '• '
1939. 1941. 1947. 1948.
“Daily Sun”.. 241,360 175,000 262,562 287,733
“Sunday Sun” 331,173 300,000 473,252 505,037
“Woman” .. * 160,000 417,669 290,718
“Pix” .. * 180,000 270,709 205,715
“World’s News” * 57,000 81,362 83,576
“Pocket Book” * 22,100 29,076 39,198
“Radio and
Hobbies” .. * 14,900 45,164 42,880
“Sporting Life” -- 108,037 183,957
“Glamor” 107,423
* Not available.
Since the close of accounts the “Daily
Sun” and “Sunday Sun” have passed the
300,000 and 510,000 mark respectively,
and “Glamor” has reached 150,000,
though it is too early yet to say that it
has been successfully established.
It was reduced consumption of news-
print that saved the day. Gross earnings
from trading were £11,563 stronger, but
£10,823 less was received from invest-
ments, following sale of the co.’s holding
(160,000 £1 ords.) in Consolidated Press,
Ltd.:
Gross earnings— 1947. 1948.
Trading .. ..£456,037 £467,600
Investments .. 24,760 13,937
Total .. ..£480,797 £481,537
Exes. —
Management, etc. .. 122,345 124,253
Depreciation 44,376 50,058
Taxation .. .. 111,081 111,912
Total .. ..£277,802 £286,223
Of the growth of £8421 in total exes.,
£s6B2‘was in respect of depreciation. The
£195,314 (down £7681) of profit claimed
was sufficient to pay the prefs. their full
contract rate (7 p.c. = £104,459) and
show 8.4 p.c. on the £1,071,326 of ord.
capital as against 9.2 p.c. and 8.9 p.c.
for the two preceding terms. But money
was wanted in the business, so the pref.
div. was kept at the statutorily reduced
minimum of 5.4 p.c. and the ord. div. at
5 p.c.—it is difficult to say when better
need be expected. After sending £20,000
to the staff fund, £40,792 was added to
reserves, raising them to £544,705, which
is subject to £1,500,960 of goodwill, etc.,
a reminder of the generous terms of the
merger in 1929 and subsequent purchases
and adjustments, including jettisoning of
half the ord. capital (£1,052,121) in 1933.
Among other things, balance-sheet
figures reflect preparation to meet the
onrush of competition:
1942. 1947. 1948.
Paid capital .. £2,563,601 £2,563,001 £2,563,001
Overdraft.. .. 324,240 590,494 589,802
Creditors & taxi. 228,850 289,440 269,013
Staff fund .. 7,710 20,000 20,000
Freeholds .. .. 752,175 739,306 751,034
Plant* .. .. 286,526 145,642 205,200
Shares .. .. 419,970 417,248 311,217
Stocks . . . . 288,762 695,944 905,761
Debtors .. .. 186,475 468,006 366,288
Cash .. .. 63,629 17,094
* Less depreciation reserve, £755,904, Sept. 26, 1948.
Over £lOO,OOO was spent on plant—
mainly the cost of five new Goss presses
—during the year. The contraction of
£106,031 in shareholdings followed the
sale of Consolidated scrip at an unstated
figure, purchase of additional ords. in
Australian Newsprint Mills, strengthening
the holding in Radio 2UE (Sydney) to a
controlling interest, and a contribution to
the Australian Associated Press interest in
Reuters, Ltd. Excluding shareholdings,
current assets exceeded current liabilities
by £339,896 (up £75,537) when the books
closed.
As for the current term, abolition of
newsprint rationing, except from the
dollar area, has meant larger papers and
more advertising. It also means a bigger
paper bill, swollen by the continued ri
in price of the stuff. The imponderable
is the appearance of fresh competition,
especially from the “Sunday Herald,” out
of the Fairfax stable, which made its first
appearance on January 23, and got a very
good reception. It is too early yet to
say exactly what effect the new journal
will have upon the earning-power of
Sydney’s other principal Sunday publica-
tions —“Sun,” “Telegraph” and “Truth.”
Over-all there will be more space for sale
among a limited number of advertisers,
who, as times get more difficult, are likely
to become increasingly selective and
might have to ration or reduce their space-
schedules to keep within the limits of
appropriations. At the moment trade is
buoyant, employment high and there is
plenty of money about, all of which
means much so far as advertising and
circulation revenues are concerned.
At 18s. 6d. (17s. 6d. a couple of months
ago) Associated’s f.-p. £1 ords. return
5.4 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis. The prefs.
at 21s. 9d. yield 5.2 p.c. on a 5.4 p.c. dis-
tribution. Net tangible cover is 21s. 6d.
prefs. and 2s, lyd. ords.
Lincoln Mills (Australia), Ltd.
, —Dividends—^
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
June; Profit. 9 p.c. 12| p.c. serves. serves.f
£ £ £ £ £
1941.. 70,189 36,000 10,066 24,123 221,756
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 211,756
1942.. 80,612 36,000 10,066 34,546 246,302
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. •• 236,302
1943.. 64,987 36,000 10,066 18,921 255,223
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. 250,223
1944.. 64,537 36,000 10,066 18,471 268,694
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. 263,694
From tax reserve, £ll,BOO .. ~ 275,494
1945.. 35,510 36,000 10,066 264,938
To staff fund, £2500 .. .. 262,438
1946.. 72,018 36,000 10,066 25,952 288,390
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 278,390
1947.. 78,620 36,000 10,066 32,554 310,944
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 300,944
1948.. 74,736 36,000 10,066 28,670 329,614
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 319,614
t Excluding depreciation reserve.
The board wrote last term’s profit at
£82,620 (up £7477). That included
£14,334 received on account of female
wage subsidies in respect of 1947 (£6321)
and 1946 (£8013). Profits in the table
have been adjusted accordingly, after
allowing for taxation at 9s. in the pound.
That left the year’s net result £3884 short
of the 1947 figure at £74,736. A liberal
£36,845 (up £4848) was allowed for de-
preciation, an unspecified amount for
taxation, and the cost (unstated) of trans-
ferring idle worsted-spinning plant from
the main Coburg mill to the new factory
at Highett was written off out of earnings.
Turnover was a record, but there was a
steep rise in operating costs, following
introduction of the 40-hour week and re-
current lifts in wage-rates and prices of
raw materials, which was not taken up
by an increase in controlled selling prices.
Profit from the local sale of yarn fell to
a "most unsatisfactory level.” Exports
again made an important contribution to
profit, but here competition from British
producers is growing, and promises to be-
come severe.
The £74,736 was enough to pay the 9
p.c. pref. div. (£36,000) and show 48.1 p.c.
on the £80,527 of ord. capital as against
52.9, 44.7, nil, 35.4, 36 and 55.4 p.c. back
to 1942. The div. was kept at 12]- p.c.,
£lO,OOO was sent to the staff fund, and
the £18,670 that was left raised reserves
to £319,614. In addition there is £238,174
specifically earmarked for depreciation of
freehold (£64,901) and plant (£173,273).
The present 12| p.c. to the ords. is
equivalent to only 2.5 p.c, on their
original capital—£322,ooo-odd (16s. a
share) was jettisoned in 1925 to cover
fire losses, etc., and rub out £BO,OOO of
goodwill. By 1938 plant had been
modernised and expanded and the busi-
ness got on an even keel again. The
heavy depreciation allowance from which
the work had been financed was then cut
in half, enabling more profit to be shown.
The policy since has been to keep the div.
steady, and expand and strengthen the
organisation by building up reserves.
Of recent years chief bottlenecks have
been shortages of labor and of black coal
from N. S. Wales. To help solve the labor
problem five branch factories have been
successfully established in country dis-
tricts. ' On the fuel side new boilers that
bum raw brown coal from Bacchus
Marsh have been installed. Additions
and extensions have also been made to
power, scouring, dyeing and knitting
equipment, and more is yet to be done
in this direction.
Last term £81,649 was spent on fixed
assets:
1939. 1946. 1947. 1948.
Paid capital £480,527 £480,527 £480,527 £480,527
Liabilities) 79,894 204,004 321,091 483,940
Deprec. reserve 169,831 201,196 238,174
Freeholds .. 81,596 148,346 158,908 184,035
Plant .. 114,124 297,445 335,640 392,162
Stocks .. 341,805 601,945 584,379* 685,526*
Book debts,
etc. .* 113,462 180,609 216,947 260,532
t Includes tax reserve, divs. payable and contribution
to staff fund. * Includes subsidies claimed but not
» received.
Debtors’ balances increased by £43,583
and stocks by £101,147 —stocks include
£117,357 (up £34,932) of subsidies claimed
but not paid. To meet the outlay
£148,588 was added to the overdraft
(£326,487) and £14,220 to trade debts,
etc. When the books closed
there was 11s. Id. of outside money in
the business for every pound belonging to
shareholders.
The disturbing feature in the immediate
outlook is the steep rise—not yet at its
peak—in the selling-price of woollen
yarns and woollen goods following the
withdrawal of subsidies. This is expected
to affect turnover through increases in
consumer resistance and more effective
competition from overseas manufac-
turers. Costs promise to remain stub-
born.
The market expresses its confidence in
the outlook for the business by pricing
the f.-p. 4s. ords. at 16s. 3d., at which
figure the return is 3.1 p.c. on a 12| p.c.
div. basis. The pound prefs. at 355. 9d.
yield 5 p.c. Net tangible cover is 40s.
prefs. and 19s. lOd. ords.
Allan and Stark, Ltd. (Brisbane)
<—■ Dividends ,
Pref. To Re- Re-
July, Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. serves. ' serves.
1939.. 12,904 2500 2£ p.c. = 6,111 4,293 10,550
Surplus sale shares, £312 .. .. 10,862
1940. . 16,636 2500 3 p.c. = 7,333 6,803 17,665
1941.. 17,072 2500 H „ „ 8,556 6,016 23,681
1942.. 10,005 2500 3f „ „ 8,556 22,630
1943.. 19,171 2500 4 „ „ 9,778 6,893 29,523
1944. . 45,547 2500 5 „ ~ 12,223 30,824 60,347
To staff provident fund, £2500 .. 57,847
1945.. 41,490 2500 5 p.c. = 12,223 26,767 84,614
To staff provident fund, £2500 .. 82,114
1946.. 58,179 2500 8$ p.c. = 20,778 34,901 117,015
To staff provident fund, £2500 .. 114,515
1947.. 69,419 2500 8J p.c. = 20,778 46,146 160,656
To staff fund, £l5OO 159,156
1948.. 80,793 2500 8J p.c. = 20,778 57,515 216,671
The co. has put up a surprisingly good
performance. To have carried net earn-
ings to over six times their 1939 level
is the result of something more than the
pressure of war and post-war inflationary
influences upon retail turnovers. The
store runs through the busy Queen-
Adelaide-street block; but position is by
no means everything. For the four de-
pression years to 1934 the net trading
result was a loss of £34,609.
The corner was turned in 1935, when
2s. a share (£27,161) was slashed off ord.
capital and the pref. div. lowered from
7 p.c. to 5 p.c. Still, to hold bargain-
hunting shoppers in a keenly competitive
market margins had to be kept fine, and
fox the next four years divs. averaged
only 2\ p.c., with little to spare. Then
war ushered in an entirely new but arti-
ficial set of conditions, which livened
turnover and in which bad stock became
practically unknown. In these circum-
stances net earnings stepped along in fine
style; and the management adopted a
conservative policy, keeping the div.
moderate (average 5.2 p.c. over the last
decade) and strengthening the prop for
capital (now £216,671 as against £6257
in 1939), thus enhancing the co.’s com-
petitive power and its prospects of main-
taining a satisfactory rate of dividend.
Last term gross earnings (£358,892)
shot up £22,735. After providing for
depreciation (£8235, down £1079) and
taxation (£57,000, up £12,000), and pay-
ing a bonus to the staff (£3500, down
£1500), the net result benefited by £11,374,
reaching £80,793, easily the best yet. It
covered pref. requirements and 32 p.c. on
the £244,454 of ord. capital, compared
with 27.3, 22.7, 16.3, 17.6 and 6.8 p.c.
back to 1943. The div. was kept at 8y p.c.,
leaving nearly 2\ times as much as was
distributed to put on the shelf.
The financial position improved:
1940. 1946. 1947. 1948.
Paid capital. . £294,454 £294,454 £294,454 £294,454
Mortgages, etc. 113,276
Sundry creditors 55,025* 71,168 79,194 82,497
Tax reserve, etc. 134,202 114,816 122,921
Pinal div-., etc. 16,583 24,528 28,528 27,011
Premises & plant 216,236 214,770 221,300 238,082
Stock.. .. 195,034 234,705 293,723 341,147
Shares other cos. 21,546 54,043 34,293 34,293
Book debts . . 54,968 37,710 63,311 90,027
Cash, etc. . . 1,218 97,638 63,520 40,004
* Including tax reserve.
To help meet net additions of £16,782
to fixed assets .(mainly fittings, etc.),
£47,424 to stocks and £26,716 to book
debts the co. drew upon cash, etc., for
£23,510. The more-or-less liquid surplus
(£273,042) was £40,733 stronger.
Turnover has kept on expanding since
the close of accounts. But under pres-
sure of rising costs margins are narrow-
ing and consumer resistance is beginning
to appear. The recent p.c. cut in
mark-up on clothing and piecegoods,
decreed by officialdom early in 1949, will
bite deeply into the retailer’s net return
from these goods, and threatens to drive
some lines off the shelves.
The market notes the wide margin be-
tween the co.’s earnings and distributions
and prices the 18s.-paid ords. at 31s. 6d.
At this figure the return is 4.8 p.c. on an
Sj p.c. div. basis. The prefs. at 235. 6d.
yield 4.2 p.c. Net tangible cover is £lO
4s. sd. prefs. and 335. lid. ords.
Th'om and Smith, Ltd. (Sydney)
Makers of Tasma radios, Thom and
Smith join the list of public cos. when
the wireless trade is hushed somewhat
in expectation of television and frequency-
modulation. With the war-time leeway
in radio manufacture overtaken, the
approach of these technical changes was
bound to have a dampening effect on the
market, but the horizon has also been
blurred unnecessarily by official state-
ments about F.M. Just how definitely
the Federal Government proposes to
deny the new wave-carrier system to the
commercial broadcasting stations is a
matter on which its spokesmen haven’t
chimed in perfect harmony ; but mean-
while the falling-off in sales of radio re-
ceivers has been, as Thom and Smith’s
chairman admits, “heavier than antici-
pated.”
Thom and Smith is developing other
strings for its bow during this transition


A
A
m
Established 1808 in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle
of Waterloo, and has em-
erged from them all with
greater strength and pres-
tige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
(England)
ATI, AS BtJIIDIN GS,
8 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
F. V. MIERS, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER, Assistant Manager
for Australia and New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT, Manager
for Australia and New Zealand.
FACING A PARK
The one thing you will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere ... the absence of
noise and hustle. . . . The
Wentworth faces a park . . . yet
it is merely “round the corner
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are all you would wish
. . . the service and cuisine
excellent.
THE WENTWORTH
c.
in
S
T n 7
•Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
.
THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
•
Under
STATE GUARANTEE.
•
/
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
•
Writ 2 or Call for
Free Booklet
10 O’Connell Street
(Box 7A, G.P.0.), Sydney.
P. J. P. Pullen, Public Trustee.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone: MX 2208,
TOO HOT
tleep? 4®
mum
with
8.1
SLAGWOOL
Positions Vacant.
APPLICATIONS are invited for the fol-
lowing Staff positions by The Raub
Australian Gold Mining Co., Ltd., Malaya,
m mill SUPERINTENDENT: a fully-
experienced Mill Superintendent is re-
quired. Commencing salary £BOO/ £lOOO
Sterling per annum according to quaiin-
cations, plus cost-of-living allowance.
(2) MINE FOREMEN: Two Section
Foremen are required. Applicants should
submit evidence of sound practical ex-
perience covering underground opera-
tions. Holders of Mine Manager’s or
Underground Supervisor’s Tickets desirable
but not essential. Salary £6OO/ £7OO
Sterling per annum according to experi-
ence, plus cost-of-living allowance.
In addition to the salaries specified
above the successful applicants will be
allowed free quarters and a cost-of-
living allowance subject to revision from
time to time, which is approximately
£2OO Sterling per annum at present.
Fares and reasonable travelling expenses
paid to the Mine. At the end of con-
tracted period of service, six months
leave granted on full pay with return
fares. Successful applicants must present
a satisfactory Health Certificate. Appli-
cations, with references and particulars
of age and marital state, should be sent
to The Secretaries, CHAS. A. CLARKE
& SON, Box No. 277 D, G.P.0., Brisbane.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT ASSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: Thomas A. Maguey, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury; Sydney Sampson.
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
’Phone (four lines) 8W8361. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt St., Sydney.
THE “WILD CAT” MONTHLY.
A Review of Company Accounts and Mining Activities.
Price 2/- per Single Copy 22/6 a year post free.
INDIVIDUAL ASSISTANCE
i i
t V
PROTECTION & SECURITY
\' 'p
SAFE SAVING HT *
ft
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY INDUSTRY
Government 1 loans
\J9
#■
#
&
$
ADDED BONUSES
The reserves held by a Life Assurance Office
represent the amount which (together with
future premiums) must be invested to en-
able the Office to pay the benefits under its
policies. Invested as shown above, these
reserves guarantee the security of policy-
holders, and provide extra benefits in the
form of bonuses. These are being maintained
by efficient, thrifty management, despite
low interest rates. Actually, life assurance
management costs in Australia are the
lowest in the world!
The reserves of Life Assurance Offices
are for the protection of policyholders,
and are used for the benefit of the community.
THREE MILLION POLICYHOLDERS . . . SEYEN
AND A HALF MILLION AUSTRALIANS . . .
MATERIALLY BENEFIT THROUGH
LIFE ASSURANCE
ISSUED BY THE LEADING LIFE ASSURANCE OFFICES IN AUSTRALIA
Rtutn
BLOTCHY
SKIN
marred by spots,
rashes and pimples is
quickly cleared by
Cuticura Ointment, It as-
sures skin health. Always
keep a tin of Cuticura Oint-
ment in the house. Good for
cuts, bruises and sores. One
of the famous trio- Cuticura
Ointment, Soap and
Talcum Powder.. 533
OINTMEN
SMOKERS
PIPE TOBACCOS THAT ARE
s BLENDED TO GIVE
SATISFACTION TO ALL.
HOUSE OF MURPHY. A blend of
the highest grade of leaf to give a
cool smoke of satisfaction that men
prefer. 22/- per lb. Posted.
A.A.A. HIUETOP.
Australian, American
20/- per lb. Posted.
A blend of
and African.
WINSTON
CIGARETTE
improved by
mature leaf.
READY RUBBED
TOBACCO. Greatly
better blending of
24/- per lb. Posted.
Special Quotes to Retailers for lots mb.
•weight or over.
Write to: Cash Order Dept.,
Hillman Trading Co.,
Commercial Road, Brisbane.
Postage paid on Cash with order •
Postage extra on C*O»D» Orders •
period. Orders in hand from
the P.M.G. for the relay equip-
ment on automatic telephone
exchanges will keep sections of
the plant occupied for the next
two years. And, having already
entered the fields of refrigerator
and washing-machine manufac-
ture, the board is applying itself
to making television sets, F.M.
transmitters and receivers.
Government contracts have
taken an appreciable part of the
co.’s output for several years.
Of the declared profit (before
tax) of £15,628 for the 12
months ended June 30, 1948,
“approximately £9OOO accrued as
a result of the finalisation during
the year of a number of con-
tracts from the Department of
Supply and Development.”
These contracts were apparently
completed in December, 1947.
When Thom and Smith was
converting to a public co. last
year, taxable profits for the 10
months to April 30 were quoted
as £15,426. That only £202 was
added in the next two months
was evidently a result of the drop
in radio-receiver trade. Taxable
earnings over the past five years
have averaged £11,776, after a
sharp rise in 1947 ; and allowing
for tax on a public co. basis the
net figures have averaged £7827.
Those for the last three terms
are as follows:
ending June
1946. 1947. 1948.
Profit before tax £10,749 £16,483 £16,628
Less —
Public co. tax 3,639 5,673 6,300
Adjusted net
profit .. 7,210 10,910 10,328
Before the conversion the free-
hold factory at Mascot was writ-
ten up by £15,545, and as a re-
sult 27,018 new 10s. ords. were
handed out fully paid to share-
holders, who later subscribed in
cash for another 20,000 ords.
The original shareholders have
since placed 30,000 ords. with
outsiders at a 50 p.c. premium,
and the public also took up
30,000 new £1 5 p.c. prefs. at
par. When all the new money is
in, paid capital will amount to
£75,237, backed by £14,755 of re-
serves on the figures at June 30
last. Fixed assets at that date
were £40,314 and net liquids
£9279—with £40,399 of the new
capital still to be called in.
Directors now state that plant
conversions for the new P.M.G.
contracts have “placed a strain
on liquid resources,” and more-
over that even the new capital
structure does not enable the
co. to be classed as “public” for
taxation purposes. A further
issue of ords. is therefore con-
templated, but the amount and
terms haven’t been indicated.
Official listing has not yet been
obtained for the ords. or prefs.,
which had tangible asset cover
of 13s. 6d. and 61s. each respec-
tively on the prospectus figures.
Last term the ords. received a
tax-free 5 p.c. At the placement-
price of 15s. each, they would
yield 5 p.c. if the dividend were
raised this term to 7i p.c.; to
pay the £45,237 ord. capital at
that rate, plus a full year’s divi-
dend on the £30,000 pref. money,
would require £4893.
From London: Curses from
financially-injured shareholders
mark the end of De Berhales’s
ill-fated goldmining group. Few
Australian share-gamblers were
left lamenting. De Bernales’s
gain is said to have ex-
ceeded a million sterling. His
wealth in England is known to
comprise a large amount of real
and personal estate, including
two mansions chock - full of
costly furnishings and other trea-
sures. In Australia his assets in-
cluded a large and up-to-date
foundry, two arcades of shops,
a picture-theatre and office
buildings in the centre of Perth,
a palatial home at the seaside,
another big foundry at Kal-
goorlie and a block of flats in
Melbourne. All the mines of
the group had produced gold be-
fore being acquired by De Ber-
nales, some in substantial quan-
tities. Their abandonment was
attributed to inability to furnish
profitable ore when the price of
gold was more than 50 p.c.
lower than when De Bernales
took over. Had some feathers
been taken out of the wings of
extravagance and put into the
tail of economy some of his ven-
tures might have succeeded.
* * * *
Big figures are the feature of
Lake View and Star’s latest
annual report. Year’s develop-
ment (crosscutting, driving, ris-
ing, winzing, etc.), 24,855 ft.
(nearly 4| miles) ; ore treatment,
573,131 tons of s.osdwt.
average ; gold extracted, 130,802
fine oz.; tailings re-treated,
619,926 tons; gold extracted,
10,455 fine oz.; total profit from
ore and tailings treatment,
£389,409. An interim div. of
12 p.c. and final of 35 p.c. were
paid on the 4s. shares, less U.K.
tax of 9s. in the £.
* * * *
Profit of Wiluna Gold Mines
(W.A.), operating co. for Lon-
don-controlled Wiluna Gold
Corp., was £A21,740 for the year
to end March, 1948. But the
figure was written after taking
credit for £67,106 non-recurring
Government subsidy connected
with losses incurred over two
years in production of arsenic
and antimony. No mining was
carried on last year, but £113,624
was won from treatment of
75,112 tons of old refractory
residues, on which expenditure
outdistanced receipts by £14,399.
Treatment of 14,000 tons
monthly is now said to be
“yielding reasonable working
profits.”
» * * *
So far developments at Mt.
Charlotte, Kalgoorlie (W.A.),
have been disappointing. At
300 ft. the northern ore-body,
though bigger than expected,
has averaged only 3.6dwt. from
553 samples. Since this grade
isn’t payable at today’s level of
costs, further expenditure on
surface plant, etc., is being cur-
tailed pending further develop-
ments. The southern ore-body
has yet to be tested at 300 ft.,
and both ore-bodies at 500 ft., to
which level the Reward shaft has
been stripped and retimbered.
Wiluna and Moonlight Wiluna
hold an option over this property
till end 1950, their interests
being 75 p.c, and 25 p.c. re-
spectively.
* $ ♦ *
Those on-the register of Mel-
bourne-controlled Gordon Gold
and Gold Boring and Prospect-
ing at January 31 will have the
right, until February 25, to take
up 2s. shares in the new Blue
Moon goldmining co. (Tennant
Creek) in the proportion of one-
for-two and one-for-one respec-
tively. The two holding cos.
are also jointly interested in the
recently-formed Skipper Gold
Mine, N.L., also at Tennant
Creek, where a final clean-up
gave 1978.30 z. from 615 tons,
with about loz. to the ton in the
sands. Speaking generally, ore-
bodies carrying erratically-dis-
tributed gold occur in this area
in the form of irregularly-
shaped lenses in a slate and
haematite formation.


ABORIGINALITIES
“E. and 0.E.”: For tax-free and
constant amusement a bird-bath in
the garden, placed near enough to the
house to be overlooked by several
windows, takes some beating. I supply
one deep bath (an old iron boiler) for the
brush-wattle birds and others which
prefer to dive under. But a wide, shallow
bath attracts those fowl that prefer to dip
their heads only and splash with their
wings while standing on the bottom.
When several honeyeaters are in the bath
together, each one apparently trying to
cutsplash his brother, there is not a dull
moment for the onlooker. Certain
families have regular hours for the bath,
when not even ice will deter them. An
occasional bather is a stately brush-
bronzewing pigeon, but he shares with
the members of the various Robin
families a preference for solitary ablu-
tions.
* * * *
“Larrakeah”: Twenty years ago,it was
the custom of the Melville Islanders to
pay periodic visits to the Darwin larra-
keahs. There were. great doings in the
compound, proceedings lasting two days,
and were always amicable until the spear-
fight corroboree commenced. Then
things became willing, the mimic fight
eventually developing into a real donny-
brook, with the local men, mainly due to
their superior numbers, always the
winners. These defeats were possibly
responsible for the arrival with one con-
tingent of old Chief Matturi as leader,
incidentally his first trip to the mainland.
They landed just below Fort Hill, and,
with Matturi in the lead, marched up the
tree-clad hill, their arrival on the street
coinciding with our ancient Ford hurtling
around the corner. Matt stood flatfooted
for one second, then turned and beat all
records down to the safety of the canoe,
his men following closely trying to ex-
plain that the car was no new devil.
Somewhat reassured, Matt returned, and
we even persuaded him to inspect Lizzie
at close range. Things were going all right
when someone pressed the horn, and we
only managed to catch the chief when he
became tangled in the wire-fence. But
the old chap was game, eventually con-
quering his fear. Soon afterwards he was
making his marble good by sitting along-
side me in the driver’s seat proudly being
driven around Darwin, while his admiring
followers galloped behind. That after-
noon Matturi led his men out to the
compound for the celebrations. Two
days later there was dancing and the usual
spearfight, but despite Matturi’s leader-
ship, it was a badly-battered lot of
islanders who commenced their long
journey home.
* * * *
“Telarb”: A young Torres Straits
islander had taken unto himself a bride,
and after the ceremony repaired to the
home of her parents, there to spend his
nuptial eve. Probably due to the stress
and excitement of the day, the ’groom put
in the night with his nmther-in-law. Early
the next morning his pa-in-law was
banging on the door of the Council
Chamber demanding the severest punish-
ment according to the fullest processes
of the law. 'After due deliberation the
elders constituting the council reckoned
it was worth a fiver. Immediately they
gave their decision pa-in-law had the
“spin” out of his lava-lava and paid the
fine and, his honor thus vindicated, all
went home for breakfast declaring “We
satisfy,”
“Tam”: The octopus, usually regarded
by man with great repugnance, is a
member of one of our oldest families
which has been traced as far back as the
Ordovician period, some 500 million years
or so. Oysters, clams and the conch are
blood-brothers. As with man it lacked
claws or rending-fangs, and both had to
resort to cunning or perish. Man de-
veloped an opposable thumb, and the
octopus a group of tentacles with vacuum
cups, plus a number of useful arts, lately
being copied by man. Jet-propulsion
among the cephalopods is used to propel
the mollusc forward or backward at a
speed which can send him clear of the
water. The art of camouflage or con-
trolled pigmentation alone puts the
octopus on a high plane, involving as it
does the perfect co-ordination of
thousands of cells varying with the mood
of the mollusc. The deep-sea decapod
can Outshine the firefly with a brilliant
cold light emanating at will from any part
of the body. The inky fluid ejected as a
kind of smokescreen serves also as a
means of communication between the
cephalopods. Parental care is also evident
in these amazing animals, but the octopus
surpasses us in its ability to grow fresh
arms, to walk on its head and in its
versatile breeding methods.
* * * *
“Bo”: It was dark, and right at the top
of a “king” tide, so the visitor to the little
seaside holiday resort decided to give the
black-bream a go. At the low wharf a
figure, coated against the fresh nor’-easter,
was holding a line ; the visitor’s greeting
and remark that there was a keen edge to
“Yes, you certainly HAVE an irritating cough!”
the wind was not acknowledged. After
a fruitless half-hour the visitor asked in
a low voice had the other had a bite. No
answer. An hour passed. “What are you
using—prawn?” asked the newcomer.
Still no sign that the other had heard.
After about 10 more rebaitings for the
delectation of the “pickers” the optimist
ventured a remark that “the rain we had
must have put ’em off.” Another burst of
stony silence greeted this. After an-
other hour or so, the result being merely
a few tentative nibbles, the visitor wound
up his nylon line. “Well, I’ve ‘had’ it!”
he averred. “Don’t seem to be any
about.” His fellow-angler at last opened
his face. “Is it any wonder,” he growled,
“with so much flamin’ Windbaggin’ goin’
on!”
* * * *
“T. 8.”: Though wailing for the dead
has been officially abolished since 1935 in
Torres Straits, some of the islanders still
practise it. Everyone is happy after a
night of it, and the departed has been
decently planted and the inevitable plate
and mug placed for the convenience of
his shade, the relatives put on tucker for
the mob. The gravestone is then dis-
cussed, and usually an elaborate monu-
ment is ordered from the south. The
erection of this is another occasion for a
feast (islanders will feast at the drop of
a hat), and the undertaker, who is usually
a relative of the deceased, becomes the
recipient of many yards of calico wound
around the headstone by the relatives and
also much coin. It is on record that one
such amateur undertaker finished up
£256 and several larey lava-lavas to the
good. Families will run themselves deeply
into debt to do the right thing, and usually
finish up paying for the rest of their
lives. Then they die, and someone else
carries the baby until the thing becomes
so complicated no one knows who owes
whom.
* * * *
“Water of Leith”: There wasn’t a ewe
in sight as I rounded the hill of the back-
paddock of my Maoriland run, and only
the thought that a deserted new-born
lamb can flatten out behind a blade of
grass kept me going before mid-morning
against a biting sou’-wester. Half-way
round there was a move in the lucerne
beyond, and a stoat came through the
wire on a diagonal course. About 30
yards away from me he showed a white
throat, sO I moved a little, murmured
“Tam,” and the dog swung down and
out. In the next few minutes there must
have been 15 or 20 heads, with the stoat
all out and bursting at each head like a
weasel, but it gained its way a full 100
yards, all the time working up the slope,
and stopped. I picked up a smoothed-
scratched relic of ancient glacial days
and moved ih. Now a header doesn’t,
and won’t, bite, and Tam’s a good ’un,
and on command can neatly butt over an
excited lamb; but I hesitated with the
stone, being no Bradman. “Step!” I
commanded. Slowly the foreleg swung
and gently grounded as the body moved
forward a foot, and the dog froze in
beautiful crouch and perfect balance.
The stoat rose up with back arched
and hair a-fuzz. For a full minute
on short green grass in bright sunshine I
enjoyed the perfect picture —tensed, wind-
swept dog and stoat, during which I
stepped Tam twice. The stoat broke with
a lightning dash. Twice it was again
headed, then vanished. I walked up to
Tam, and he lifted his head from a
disused rabbit-hole with a sardonic grin
and said “Stonkered!” Only the bitterly
cold wind drowned the sound. ’Twas a
good lambing.
* * * *
“Bon-Yi”: South Queensland, between
the coastal Blackall Range and Bunya
Mountains on the fringe of the Darling
Downs, is Bunya-pine country. Most of
the big trees are gone now, except in the
National Park on the Bunya Mountains,
but there are plenty smaller specimens
around. The abos made this part of
Queensland a regular visiting-place during
the summer months when the seed-cones
ripened and fell. The cones, which weigh
from 121 b. to 201 b., contain nearly 150
nuts as big as a large almond. “Big
bunya” year, when the trees bear extra-
heavy crops, occurs about every fourth
and seventh year, and it is a belief of
old hands that the heavier the crop the
better the season. The giant trees still in
the National Park on the Bunyas have the
old toeholes plainly showing in their bark,
though the last abo. climbed them some
40 years ago. Old abos claimed that “big
bunya” was also “big piccaninny year.”
The whole tribe would turn up thin and
hungry, would rest and feast for two or
three months on the tasty and fattening
nuts.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: One of the best cricket
matches I ever took part in, as twelfth
man and umpire, was between Red Bend
and the Town team. Out at Red Bend
the local ladies prepared the usual sump-
tuous repast with which to entertain the
visitors, and we made it our business to
collect a couple of nine-gallon kegs from
the Caragabal Hotel. The day dawned
bright and hot, and we got the kegs under
wet bags early. Then a messenger arrived
to say that the Town team couldn’t make
it, but that another team in the town
would fill the gap if we didn’t mind a late
start. We didn’t, and put in the time with
a bit of practice. There was a debate
about sticking the pigs, but we decided it
would be bad manners to do so until the
visitors arrived, and they sat intact in
their bower of wet bags and gum-
branches. The substitute team arrived
and we got straight on with the match.
Then we discovered with dismay that we
were playing the Towi\Combined Church
team, and, not wishing to offend anybody,
our skipper gave urgent orders. The kegs
were camouflaged, and all hands were
warned neither to refer to them nor go
near them on pain of summary punish-
ment. All through the long hot after-
noon we batted and fielded, drinking cold
tea and eyeing the tabooed spot under the
gum. It ended at last, the other team
went home with an easy win, and we
rushed to earn the reward of throwing
our last five wickets away. It was then
that it became the best match I ever
played in. •
* * * #
“Shingler”: “Baron” seems to have
got his derivations somewhat mixed (B.
26 /1 / ’49). The “ringer” in a shearing-
shed is the man who puts up the best tally
for the run: he “rings” the shed, i.e., runs
“rings round” the rest. It has nothing
to do with “ringing the sheep with shears
as its wool is removed.” Webster defines
it: Any person or thing of highest excel-
lence in any particular activity. And
“gun” is not a new word on the “sheep
front.” A “gun” has meant a topnotch
shearer, though not necessarily a ringer,
for at least 50 years. The topnotch man
always earned a big cheque, consequently
when he hit town he was usually more
expensively dressed and had more money
to throw about than the lesser lights;
thus he was a big-gun shearer, just as
there are big-gun cane- and sleeper-
cutters, big-gun pastoralists, big-gun
bookmakers, and so forth. The country
was full of big-gun rabbiters last winter.
As for a ringer in mustering cattle, he’s
simply the chap who rings ’em —that is,
rides around them to keep them more or
less together.
* * * *
“Moyhu”: On occasions a wombat
will jump. Cornered by stags in a pad-
dock fenced with pig-netting too strong
for him to barge through in a hurry, I’ve
seen a fine buck specimen hurl a bunch
of clods into the faces of the surprised
tykes with swiftly-accelerating hooves,
and rise gracefully over the obstruction.
A cat-like landing and swift disappear-
ance into the scrub had been effected be-
fore the amazed mongs had time to re-
cover poise. Post-mortem examination
of the animal some days later, following
its falling victim to a .303, revealed
a ’roo-like development of the hind-
quarters, possibly pointing to an ancient
link between the two.
» * * *
“H.8.M.”: It was Samuel Butler who
described the homing pigeon’s instinct as
“the memory of the experience of the
germ-cell.” All animals have the sense
of direction well developed, and none
better than fish. They can find their way
across thousands of miles of ocean with-
out a landmark to guide them. Theirs
is a blind trail indicated, no doubt, by
currents, but mainly of the experiences of
the parent fish implanted in the germ-
cells of the young ones. Elvers go un-
erringly to the inland pond their parents
left when they ventured into the sea to
spawn. Sea-trout and salmon do this in
reverse. All kinds of birds, including the
mutton variety, find their way without
a lead and without previous experience
except for the latent memory called in-
stinct.
* * * *
“Betcha”: The small group in the bar
parlor listened interestedly as Ted con-
tinued. “He’d been foaled in the district,
and never been away. Quiet-natured nag,
that’s why I rode him on the down-
country trip,” Ted explained. “Well, as
I was sayin’, we come nearly opposite
this house by the road when the nag stuck
up. Snorted, tried to bolt back, and
ended up lying on the road. Later, I
found a bloke’d been murdered in the
house a couple of weeks before.” There
yvas silence for a few minutes, then Bob
took the floor. “That’s like the time I
had that old haystack full o’ rats,” he
began. “They had it clean riddled, and
I was always goin’ to chuck it to bits, but
kept putting it off. I’d just got me fork
one afternoon, and was eyeing the
rats, when terrible thunder come over.
No rain, but the noise was awful. When
it passed, I went back, but, strange thing.,
the rats had cleared out. Not a blinkin’
sign of one left.” The hush that followed
was broken by an old cove with an empty
glass and a hopeful eye. “Yair” he
whispered, “ain’t no accountin for things
sometimes. Reminds me o’ when old
Bailey built that road fence of his. Went
along an’ cleared the line first, and took
out anythin’ that looked like it’d fall.
Half-way along there’s a big greybox.
Six yards off the line it was, hadn’t been
dead long, and carryin’ a great crop o’
limbs Bailey give it a bang, decided it d
stand for ages, and left it. Well, his fence
hadn’t been finished more’n a coupte o
weeks when down come the tree. Talk
about a mess! Smashed limbs and
rubbish everywhere; an’ . . • an ...
The old cove paused dramatically, and
took in the listening group. “An’ .believe
it or not,” he announced, it hadn t fell
on the fence /”
THE OLDEST ONE.
Each day he comes, ostensibly to fish;
Each day, all summer through, you’ll see him
there,
As old and creaking as the rotting pier
Beneath him, where, sublimely unaware
Of loud and garish youth that passes by,
He sits and casts an optimistic line.
Yet cares he naught that fish refuse to bite,
Sufficient if the day be warm and fine
Enough to sit and dream his old man’s dreams
And let his clouded thoughts drift out to sea.
Not all the bickering clamor of the gulls
Nor hooting ships disturb his reverie.
Anaesthetised beneath the noonday sun
He dozes in a shaft of timelessness,
His mind submerged, his senses seeming drowned
In depths of sleep uncharted, fathomless,
While shoals of little fish swim far below
His long-forgotten line, their trembling shade
Darkening the blue and green cathedral-glooms
That piercing shafts of morning sunlight made.
Then, more insistent than the gulls’ sharp cry,
More urgent than the siren’s hoarse farewells,
The wind lays warning fingers on his brow.
He wakes, and knows this chilly touch foretells
His measured days, yet he will surely cling
To this last simple joy he holds so dear,
Until the Last High Tide will take him too,
Like useless flotsam washed from off the pier.
Though barnacles outlive his constancy,
Of empty baskets he will not complain:
He fills them all with life’s remembered dreams.
Tomorrow he will come to fish again.
S.A.
MARGARET ALLEN.


“Trim”: In the old days every second
property in the district was on Shaggy’s
sale-list, and buyers were as scarce as
desert oaks on an alluvial flat. Nowadays
Shaggy goes far afield after properties
likely to suit a long waiting-list of buyers.
Calls one day on a cocky in the mountain
country, introduces himself, and then it
goes something like this: Cocky says
“Me name’s Brown —Jim Brown.”
Shaggy states his business and asks Brown
if he’s thinking of selling. Brown says
“Maybe I am, maybe I ain’t, but I don t
own it —only working it fer me brother.”
“What’s his name?” asks Shaggy, think-
ing of a Christian tag. “Henderson,” says
Brown. “Jim Henderson.” Shaggy thinks
that that’s quite possible, so he asks where
Henderson may be found. Brown says
“T’aint much good looking for ’im neither
—’eqrd the other day e’s sellin’ out to me
other brother.” “Henderson or Brown?”
asks Shaggy. “Neither,” says Brown, and
adds “Green —Jim Green.” Shaggy squats
down on the edge of the verandah, lifts
his tit-for-tat and scratches his cranium.
Brown says “Y’ see, the joint’s really in
the name of the Gutzke Estate —that’s
Mum’s fourth ; ’e died last year. Mum
didn’t ’ave none by ’im. When the estate
goes through she’s promised the joint to
Jim and ’e’s promised Jim that Jim can
’ave first crack at it.” Shaggy wonders
whether it would be worth while trying
to butt in on a possible sale, but decides
against it. He’s just about to take his
leave when he says to Brown “By the
way—was Gutzke’s name Jim?” “Yair,”
says Brown. “ ’Ow didya know?”
* * * *
“Blime”: Dave was a good worker on
the farm till he became afflicted with the
desire to be a writer. He took a short
course, read all the advice he could find
on the subject and spent the next six years
reeling off articles and shorts that were as
regularly returned. Then he decided per-
sonal contact with the publications
favored was needed, so shifted to the city.
Another 18 months passed. Then, fed-
up with supplying the cheques and work-
ing shorthanded, Dad went after the
budding writer, and found him, armed
With a bulky portfolio, doing his rounds.
“Only got one more place to call,” he
told the old bloke cheerfully. “I’ve seen
them all every day since I came down,
but you’ve got to keep trying.” As they
entered the establishment a cove dived
hurriedly into a side office and locked the
door. Unperturbed, Dave quietly
mounted the stairs, motioning to the old
man to wait. Dad listened to angry voices
above, a scuffle, then watched as Dave
bumped headlong downstairs in a cloud
of flying papers. “How y’ gettin’ on at
this game, Dave?” he seized the oppor-
tune moment to inquire. Dave sat up
painfully, holding his head. ‘ Pretty
gopd,” he replied. “Ain’t had anything
published yet, but they say this job takes
damn’ near as much patience and per-
severance as farming.”
* • , * * *
“Solitude”: Was running through the
newspaper, reading out items of interest,
while Seventyfiver smoked by the fire.
“Fat cattle likely to get cheaper,” I
murmured. “Warm weather expected
soon if it doesn’t turn cool in the mean-
time' Couple of people drowned down
at the coast, off a duck.” “Orf a what,
Sol?” “A duck. It left the road and took
into deep water at a bend, and sank.
“But where was the folks?” “On the
duck.” “On it?” “Yes.
must’ve gone wrong with it.” The old
bloke smoked on stolidly. A bit later the
silence was broken as Sandy dropped in
and squatted himself beside the coals.
Seventyfiver eyed him speculatively, and
removed his pipe. “Sol’s jus’ bin readin’
in the paper,” he announced, jabbing in
my direction with his pipe-stem, bout
some folks gettin’ drownded orf a duck.”
“Orf a what?” “Orf a duck.” Sandy’s
jaw dropped, and he eyed the old bloke
suspiciously. “They got on it, see?”
Seventyfiver went oh. An the duck
didn’t like it, an’ dived into some deep
water ’n’ drownded ’em.” “The duck
did r Sandy stared unbelievably. “But
jvhat sort o’ . •»1 mean, what s a duck l
Seventyfiver’s shocked surprise was a bit
overdone. “Aw, Sol,” he waved his pipe
resignedly, “tell the silly cow what a duck
is, will y’?”
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: At Bacchus
Marsh (Vic.) the other day I saw a bloke
catching rabbits with a butterfly-net. Yes
—I thought the same as you at first, but
he was a professional catching alive (for
their carcasses) the surface-living cotton-
tails in the hard tussocky country there-
abouts. His net-frame was made from
the shrunk bike wheel-rim with a 10ft.
rod-like stick attached, and when he
spotted his quarry he cast the whole rim
over a tussock. That fellow was better
than any dog at locating the furry rodents.
I patched him stalk up to one in a nest
with the agility of a blackfellow on a
’roo. One eye was on the rabbit and
the other on his right arm about to throw
the net.
* * * *
“Old Bushman”: Re the adaptability
of maggies to strange nesting conditions
(B. 12/1/’49). On Tmara, a 5000-acre
treeless property at Glenroy (S.A.), the
black-and-white fliers in their hundreds
now mostly nest on the ground. Occa-
sionally they build in a Scotch thistle
or in a bush a foot or two above ground.
Yet a few decades ago those plains were
covered with bull oak,
* * * *
“S.E.”: Andy was mooching off to his
usual morning job when the old man
stopped him. “See a few rabbits in the
back the other day,” he began. “Must
be a hole through the fence from
Munro’s. That starvation paddock of his
is lousy with bunnies. Y’ better go out
there this morning and see to it.” Andy
nodded, and had got a few yards when
the boss again hailed. “Before you block
the hole, make sure there’s no rabbits left
in,” he instructed. “Take a dog. Old
Tows ’ll do.” Andy went slowly along
the fence, found one small hole in the
netting, and sent the dog scouting for
strays. The result was so surprising he
retired to a log to watch. Time passed,
and he began to fidget. “Aw, cripes, a
bloke’ll be here all day at this rate,” he
growled. “Never did hold with these
modern ways o’ doin’ things.” He stood
up. “Awright, Tows,” he bawled loudly.
“You keep ’em in order down there, an’
1/11 see what I can do this end.” Striding
to the fence, he grabbed the netting, and
savagely uprooted a whole panel. “There
y’ are,” he grunted. “P’raps that’ll help
break up this endless blasted queue.”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We were making for
Dimboola and paused when we struck the
solitary road-mender. “How far t’ Dim-
boola, mate?” Mat asked. The cove
leant on his shovel and fished out the
makings. “Come far?” he asked. “From
Warrack.” “Oh! What’s it like in War-
rack?” “Pretty lousy. No work.” The
road-mender lit his cigarette. “Where y’
makin’ f’r?” he asked. “Dimboola. How
far is it?” He ruminated. “Don’t know
of any jobs goin’ there,” he said. “Y’
might do better Jeparit way.” “Aw,”
Mat said, squatting on his swag, “we’ll
try Dimboola first. How far y’ reckon
it is?” I sat on my swag while the road-
mender thoughtfully examined the sur-
rounding scrub. “They tell me,” he
“Strike me lucky! What sort of a
hot swing session's this!”
offered, “there’s a few rabbits up Hope-
toun way.” Mat looked at me, got up,
carried his swag to a shady spot, then set
about making a fire. The road-mender
eyed him. “Well,” Mat said, “I can see
y’ ain’t goin’ t’ tell us how far it is till
there’s nothin’ more t’ say, so we might
as well boil the billy.” The road-mender
gave him a long look. “It’s nine mile,”
he growled, picked up his shovel and got
to work. We headed up the road.
* * * *
“Tilga”: I can remember when the
gum forests of the mid-Lachlan (N.S.W.)
were still frequented by immense flocks
of the white, sulphur-crested cockatoos.
After grasshopper swarms had laid their
eggs on areas of “scalded plain” great
companies of cockatoos were to be seen
busily feeding on ground where no
“ Don't you know it's rude to stare, young Woman ?”
vestige of vegetation could be found. If
the surface of the plain were examined
after a mob had flown, innumerable
small pits, gouged out by strong beaks,
bore testimony to the destruction of a
clutch of grasshopper eggs, numbering
probably more than a hundred. The
number of embryo ’hoppers destroyed by
a large flock at one sitting must have
been immense, and the feasting continued
day after day along many miles of the
river’s course. Incidentally, it was notice-
able that though cockatoos are normally
among the noisiest of Australian birds,
they maintain absolute silence while
dealing with the egg-beds. While severe
grasshopper plagues appeared at intervals
in those days, they have now become
almost annual events, and the great re-
duction in the number of cockatoos is
without doubt largely responsible.
# * * *
“Tidapa”: I have heard of battles be-
ing fought in our northern coastal waters
between shark and crocodile, though in
long years of dwelling in those parts I
have never seen the brutes squaring up
to each ’ other. Possibly they have
too much respect for each other’s prowess.
But according to, Javanese legend there
has been one encounter that ended in
a compromise. The Javanese city of
Sourabaya was originally named “Soera”
(the shark) because of a huge shark that
once frequented the river. Soera’s privacy
was disturbed one day by the advent of
a tremendous crocodile, disputing the
shark’s title to the river. The battle
lasted two full days, ending in a draw.
The river was then divided into two sec-
tions, one dominated by the shark, while
the croc, was to keep strictly to the other.
From this legend came the present name
of Sourabaya—Soera the shark and Baya
the crocodile.
* * * *
“Zake”: Recently the Queensland
towns of Nambour, Gympie, Caloundra
and Mooloolaba suffered an electricity
blackout. Subsequently a sft. green snake
was found “on top of a telegraph-pole,
thus short-circuiting the power-lines,” and
my city newspaper “thought” that a
kookaburra had dropped it “a bit care-
lessly.” One of the popular conceptions
among our Pitt-street pioneers, who are
no doubt greatly influenced by an adver-
tisement which shows a kooka having mis-
taken a 60ft. length of a well-known
brand of garden hose for a snake, is that
the raucous laugher can flick aloft carry-
ing several pounds of serpent with the ease
of a Samson picking up a feather. Jacko
is much more interested in worms, and
the most in the colubrine line that he 11
go for is in the 12in. class. A platoon of
Jacks couldn’t hoist in a cruciform lift a
five-footer. I suspect that half the cack-
ling given out by the old feathered fraud
is at the credulity of city scribes who’ve
fallen for the tales of Jacko s weight-
lifting ability.
* * * *
“8.A.”: It is somewhat surprising that
“Ida D.” (B. 19/1/’49) during her five-
years residence in Patagonia had “never
heard of a possum, much less a meat-
eating one.” I have never lived in that
bleak, semi-desert country, but I have
seen true opossums living a terrestrial
and at times aquatic life on the treeless
pampa to the south-west of Bahia Blanca,
within a comparatively short distance of
Patagonian territory. These animals lived
in globular grass nests suspended from
flags and bulrushes growing on the
borders of swamps and small lagoons.
Their food consisted' of small, ground-
nesting birds, their eggs, and young
crustaceans and small reptiles. The late
W, H. Hudson, Anglo-Argentine writer
and naturalist, mentions these animals as
occurring' in Patagonia in his time. I
have seen them on the treeless areas of
the provinces of San Luis and Mendoza
and in the vicinity of the great Laguna
de Huanacache, about 600 miles north of
Patagonia, where they are known as
“comadrejas.” There are more than 20
varieties of true opossums in South
America, arboreal in their habits and sub-
sisting on the same food as the animal
just described. “Ida D.” apparently isn’t
aware that we have a purely terrestrial
“possum” in Australia, the rock-haunt-
ing ring-tail ( Petropsuedes dahli ), which
has its habitat on granitic country in
the vicinity of the Mary and South Alli-
gator rivers in the Far North, where it
nests in holes and crannies in the rocky
outcrops. I haven’t claimed that our
“cats” are true cats; they are, of course,
dasyures, and our “possums” are not
true opossums, but phaldngers.
* # * *
“Kawalla”: We were grub-fishing with
the immigrant, and Freddie’s fresh Eng-
lish face registered astonishment and
doubt when old Herb Hawkins remarked
that snakes were excellent swimmers.
“Nah then, pull me other leg, too,” he
said, seating himself comfortably in the
midst of a large grass tussock on the
verge of Clayton’s creek. A little later
we observed Freddie’s rod wobbling and
bobbing as he squirmed about in his
squat. Suddenly he turned to us. “Nah
then, ’oo pulled that rope from under
me?” he said. Old Herb chuckled as he
pointed to the water below the opposite
bank. “There’s your rope, near the
driftwood, Freddie. Now d’ you believe.
Joe can swim?” Freddie was green
about the gills as he feebly nodded. But
we had a tougher job convincing him he
hadn’t been bitten.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Strolling along the
glorious stretch of beach that runs for
miles north of Wollongong (N.S.W.) I
came upon a boy of about 11 working
strenuously on a point of sea-washed
rocks. His implement was a length of
rusty angle-iron that had been a support
for barbed-wire entanglements ; and his
objective, so he informed me, “a nocto.”
Wonderingly I watched as the searching
bar poked, prodded, then began to lever
a small slab away from the mass of rock
behind. Not until the loose piece was
almost free did I see the strange quarry.
Furtively and with planned cunning it
sneaked out from a crevice on the side
farthest from the disturbance. But
quicker eyes had seen the escape; the
bar moved swiftly, there was a swish in
shallow water, and a small octopus was
flung up on the sand. Quickly the kid
seized a horrible-looking tentacle, and in
the same movement crashed the repulsive
body on a rock. “I’ll turn him inside
out,” the boy announced with a friendly
grin—and proceeded to do so. The opera-
tion was accomplished to the accompani-
ment of a descriptive commentary: “See
the black stuff? That’s what he dyes the
water with so’s he can escape. See his
in-test-tines? Not much of ’em, is there?
Feel his suckers stick to ya!” Gingerly
I confirmed their powers of suction.
“You count ’em. More’n fifty countin
the teeny ones on the ends; that’s over
four-hundred suckers altogether. Cripes,
just as well I didn’t let him grow
up!” He produced a penknife and
pricked the underside at a point that could
have been the radiating centre for all the
tentacles. A small beak was revealed.
The lad removed it, placed it on my
rather reluctant palm, hung the loose
bag of flesh on my thumb, and dashed
off, presumably to search for another.
FLOCKS.
With a sound like the patter of rain on the pane
the sheep go by
on thin grey sticks of legs
in a land sucked dry,
in a land where the senses cry
for the slip and the lisp and the sigh
of water sparkling by...
brut only the beat of the heat
makes reply.
Yet huddled high in far-off pastures of the sky
the clouds like sheep
with bent grey backs pack deep
into a motionless heap...
Dumbly two small ones creep
along the sky’s uncharted sweep,
stumbliqg as though the way were steep,
while all the rest —inert, close-pressed—
sink into sleep.
How soon will flocks from pastures high
merge with flocks in a land sucked dry,
and rain fall silverly, cold and sweet,
on matted backs and dusty feet
as the sheep go by?
N.S.W.
UNA AULD.


PENFOLDS
WINE
Swelling, Soreness
Relieved by
MOIST HEAT
The moist heat of an
Antiphlogistine poultice relieves
pains, reduces swelling, limbers
up stiff, aching muscles due to
simple sprains, bruises or similar
conditions. Used by many
doctors all over the world.
It’s easy to get the
benefits of moist
heat. Just apply
Antiphlogistine poultice
hot enough to be
comfortable—then feel
the moist heat go right
to work on sore, aching
parts.
dsf
ds
Look
0$
IS
...and lashings
of leisure, too!
The AGA has a Roasting Oven and
a Simmering Oven. You can stow
a 201 b. turkey in the one, and a whole meal to slow-cook
in the other and be sure of perfect results. No matter
how much you use this unique British-made cooker, it
won’t add a id. to the bills . . . for the AGA is the only
cooking stove in the world whose maximum consumption
is guaranteed not to exceed a certain figure.
Country owners have proved that fuel costs are less than
the cost of wood, even when cut on their property.
GUARANTEED FOR 10 YEARS.
DEMONSTRATED AT
LEVIN AND COMPANY LIMITED
Sole Agents for AGA Heat Storage Cooker
45 King Street, Sydney ... 432 Bourke St., Melbourne.
Showrooms: Colton, Palmer & Preston Ltd., Currie St., Adelaide.
Cnr. Margaret & Albert Streets, Brisbane.
Tasmanian Agents: A. G. Webster & Sons Ltd. Hobart.
W.A. Agents: Malloch Bros. Ltd., Perth.
A 3 /168.
Business, Rpbbery, Etc.
Depression—New Style
Only in the case of a very few
staple products, such as wheat,
tin, rubber and cocoa-beans, are
there signs as yet of world
scarcity of raw materials being
overcome. And output of manu-
factured goods is still years be-
hind demand.
All this indicates that, essen-
tially, there is no overproduc-
tion, as a general thing, in the
world today. Allowing for
war-time and post-war disloca-
tion of productive and trading
facilities, there should be jobs
available for all willing and
able to work quite outside Gov-
ernment payrolls established for
“shock - absorber,” socialisation
and vote-buying purposes.
The United States appears to
be most likely to reach full and
ample productivity first among
the nations; but even there
there is a long housing lag, a
scarcity of new automobiles, a
lack of certain transport facili-
ties and a tightness in supplies
of' many raw materials.
The whole world set-up, as
far as a person can see, is still
one promising industrial expan-
sion and full employment. Ex-
cept for soaring prices, there
are few signs at present that in-
dicate the onset, of an “old-
time” depression.
But economic conditions, in
spite of the obvious indications
of production scarcity, can still
get off equilibrium—out of bal-
ance. And that disequilibrium
is quite capable of bringing
economic and industrial break-
down, loss of confidence and
social demoralisation and dis-
cord.
In Australia there is disturb-
ing evidence of disequilibrium
now. What The Bulletin has
for years forecast as a “produc-
tion depression” is now with us
in well-defined and undeniable
shape. No longer are our
material shortages mainly a
hangover from war-time mobi-
lisation ; they become ever
more obviously the result of the
40-hour week, the deliberate
trade-union restriction of coal
output, the slowing-down of
shipping turn-rounds and the
Communist strangulation of
other industries.
As a result, and in addition
to the fall in production of
essential goods and services,
costs in Australia have been
soaring. Costs of living are lift-
ing as well as costs of produc-
tion. And, just now, costs are
receiving an extra shove up-
wards by reason of -the with-
drawal of price-subsidies by the
Federal Government —a piece of
studied and shameless political
sabotage of the economy by the
Chifley Government in Canberra
following its annoyance over the
rejection of the Prices Refer-
endum.
Productivity in Australia is
now falling, and costs of produc-
tion are rising, at a greater rate
than in other English-speaking
countries. State “Labor”-Gov-
ernment Prices Departments are
tending to ignore rising produc-
tion costs when it comes to the
matter of raising selling-prices
to meet higher costs, and the
profits of many classes of in-
dustry are in danger of con-
traction. This is a serious thing
from the point of view of the
national economy. Profits of in-
dustry as a whole have not been
robust in relation to the post-
war inflating national economy.
And they have been subject to
specially heavy taxation.
A fall in industry’s profits
would mean a further setback in
the nation’s investment re-
sources, with a still greater pro-
portion of the national income
flowing to the consumer and in-
creasing inflationary pressure.
Our inflating internal costs are
also becoming a danger to our
export industries that are stilt
managing to keep up a fair level
of production. If prices over-
seas should fall—and this is
always a possibility, especially
if productivity per man-hour in
other countries rises at a fast
rate while ours continues to de-
cline—the “paper-money pros-
perity” that has been a feature
of our post-war economy may
be sharply nipped off. This
would happen even more quickly
if our exchange rate were
brought to parity with -sterling.
What is the prospect, under
“It’s a simply marvellous novel —should have been
banned, really .”
the Chifley Government, if our
“paper-money prosperity” is
nipped off by a fall in our ex-
ternal income?
It is most unlikely that the
Chifley Ministry will take steps
to increase output per man-
hour and so restore real costs-
and-prices equilibrium. In a
slump we would, under Chifley,
be more likely to go from bad
to worse—inflation would be
worse confounded. That would
be the direct result of a “full-
employment” policy that failed
to give an adequate return in
production.
Eighteen or 19 years ago
Edward Granville Theodore,
then Federal Treasurer, sought
permission to make an issue of
fiduciary currency in order to
pay for “public works” and
other things during an acute
period of the slump then pre-
vailing. Permission \yas re-
fused by the chairman of the
central - bank board on the
grounds that it was an infla-
tionary move not backed up
by adequate measures to reduce
costs and increase production.
Today the Federal Treasurer,
who happens to be Mr. Chifley,
needs to ask permission of no-
body if he wants to issue a hun-
dred millions of fiduciary notes
or Treasury bills. This time
“Labor” has an open go in the
affairs of the Commonwealth
Bank ; and in view of “Labor’s”
record as a shirker of industrial
responsibility when faced with
real problems of production and
production-costs, the tendency
in a time of financial difficulty
seems likely to be towards credit-
inflation —towards ever-higher
costs until a real crash comes.
A.N.A.
Conversion to a public com-
pany by Australian National
Airways had apparently been
under consideration for some
time. Late in 1944, when the
co. sought to absorb Guinea
Airways, Ltd., shareholders of
the latter were to be satisfied im-
mediately by an issue of A.N.A.
preference scrip with the under-
standing that this was “convert-
ible into ordinary shares in a
public co. to be formed at a
later date to acquire all the in-
terests of A.N.A.” Against their
directors’ advice, Guinea share-
holders rejected the offer.
That is the only time the pub-
lic has had a glimpse of A.N.A.’s
earning-power. An investigating
accountant reported that, on a
paid capital of £398,700, net
profits for the three previous
terms, “after charging all ex-
penses, including tax,” had been:
1942.. .. £71,434
1943.. .. 169,950
1944.. .. 206,019
Now the co. is operating on a
much bigger scale, but there
have been some adverse develop-
ments, including the new route-
charges imposed by Civil Avia-
tion and the price-war initiated
by rival airlines. Present capital
is £1,000,000, held mainly by
Huddart Parker, Adelaide
Steamship, Union Steamship,
Orient S.N. and Holyman Bros.
Pty. Last week’s preliminary
statement said £375,000 would
be released to the public in ss.
share units. New tax regula-
tions may have hastened the de-
cision to convert to a public
co.; managing-director I. N.
Holyman also mentioned that
A. is taking up a 49 p.c. in-
terest in the Singhalese National
Airline of Ceylon, which has
licences to fly into India, Malaya
and U.K. A.N.A.’s interests
already include a one-third hold-
ing in Cathay Pacific Airways,
Hong Kong, and a half share in
Cahill’s Deep Freeze, Ltd., a
Sydney food-refrigerating con-
cern.
Titanium
“Metallic”: Heybridge, near
Burnie (Tas.), is the site of Aus-
tralia’s first titanium-pigments
factory. It has been put into
operation by Australian Titan
Products, Ltd., an offshoot of
British Titan, which for a long
time has supplied the Australian
rubber, plastic, linoleum, paper
and associated industries. Initial
output will be 1800 tons a year,
rising to about 3500 tons in two
years. The Zinc Corp.,
1.C.1.A.N.Z. Ltd., 1.C.1. (Lon-
don), Associated Pulp and Paper,
Electrolytic Zinc, Berger’s and
B. all had personal repre-
sentatives present at the opening.
W. S. Robinson forecast big de-
velopments in the production of
titanium pigments, output of
which a few years ago was mea-
sured in pounds weight. Already
the annual world production is
approaching 1,000,000 tons. The
C. states that titanium —
“the metal of the future” —
when produced in Australia
might be worth £BOO a ton. It
is being obtained in experimental
quantities at present. One of
the most important sources of
supply is the deposit of heavy
beach-sands on the Queensland
and N.S.W. coasts. Titanium is
a metal twice as strong as iron,
much lighter and with a corro-
sion resistance equal to that of
stainless steel.


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD. A
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established, 1818
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
C. C. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN C. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — Probate Jurisdiction.-
IN THE ESTATE of EDWARD ERNEST
PEARSON (also known as Edward Pier-
son and sometimes known as Edward
Peirson) late of North Sydney in the
State of New South Wales Tally Clerk
deceased intestate—PßOßATE granted
by the Supreme Court of New South
Wales on 9th December 1947 Pursuant
to the. Wills Probate and Administration
Act 1898-1940 and Testators Family
Maintenance and Guardianship of In-
fants Act 1916-1938 and Trustee Act
1926-1940 The Union Trustee Company
of Australia Limited (Incorporated in
Victoria) of 2 O’Connell Street Sydney
in the said. State the Administrator of
the Estate of the said EDWARD ERNEST
PEARSON who died on the 28th June
1947 hereby gives notice that creditors
and others (particularly those claiming
as next-of-kin of the deceased) having
any claim against or to the Estate of
the said deceased are required to send
particulars of their claims to the said
Administrator in the care of the under-
signed on or before the Ist April 1949
at the expiration of which time the said
Administrator will distribute the assets
of the said deceased to the next-of-kin
already known having regard only to the
claims of which they then have notice.
DATED the 24th day of January 1949.
—WALTER LINTON & BENNETT,
Proctors for the Administrator, 376
George Street, Sydney.
LONDON and BIRMINGHAM
BRITISH INDUSTRIES FAIR
fds
Every year, from over 1 00 countries, trade
buyers gather at the British Industries Fair.
The Chamber of Commerce in Birmingham,
and manufacturers from every part of Britain, join with
the Government of the United Kingdom to welcome them.
At BI F 1949, from 2-1 3 May, 3000 exhibitors will display
the latest developments in thirty groups of allied trades.
The leading men of international commerce are invited to
attend the world’s greatest assembly of national products.
2-13 MAY 1949
TRADE BUYERS PLAN YOUR VISIT NOW
Information about exhibitors, special displays and facilities at
the Fair can be obtained from the United Kingdom Trade
Commissioner at Canberra, Sydney, Melbourne or Brisbane;
or the Imperial Trade Correspondent at Adelaide or Perth.
“1*
FONDE
*
EN 1724
REMY MARTIN
V.S.O.P. COGNAC BRANDY
Of rare age and vintage quality seldom before, if ever,
imported into Australia, Obtainable at most good retailers.
BOTTLES, 36/9; HALF BOTTLES, 18/9; MINIATURES, 2/3.
(These prices are slightly higher in West Australia and Qld.)
Handsome 3 comfortable
and dependable 9 this is the
LOWEST-PRICED lOh.p.
SEDAS IS AUSTRALIA
%
J
X
KN
Ti
fil
FPBI7-24
FROM THE HOME
OF FORD MANUFACTURING IN AUSTRALIA
Prefect costs less much
less —to own. And Prefect
pleases too, in outstanding
smartness, comfort and de-
pendability. In every way
easily the best 10 h.p. “buy’’.
_
Place your order with your local Ford Distributor or Dealer
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INC. IN VtC.) H 0 MEBUSt^Jt^W,
LONDON AIRMAIL
From Herbert Holman
January, which came in at
gale force, brought some discom-
fort to Londoners. Besides the
rush and roar of high winds at
street-corners and the nodding
of the leafless poplars in the
squares, there were other, if con-
cealed, evidences of hostile
weather. The Thames, the Ser-
pentine, the Round Pond in Ken-
sington Gardens, and almost
every lake in every park became
sanctuaries for cawing, flutter-
ing refugees. These seagulls
were also to be seen in surround-
ings greater in reward than in
picturesqueness: wheeling and
gliding and swooping for scraps
of food over rows of back gar-
dens and on the humbler side
of large blocks of flats.
Another rather disturbing
sign of remote heavy seas was
the cold nakedness of the marble
slabs in fishmongers’ shops. Be-
cause it doesn’t go very far, the
weekly joint of meat has all the
savor of luxury. It is fish that
now threatens to become the
staple food in British homes;
and, as there is nothing else that
can adequately take its place,
housewives are always conscious
of its temporary shortage.
Saturday’s Children
But the chief discomfort was
the “busmen’s holiday” of New
Year’s Day. This strike, which
was as devoid of sympathy as it
was of reason, was received with
patience and good humor. The
attitude of the public might be
summed up as having been one
of restrained but kindly cen-
sure : as of one friend to another
who, while acting foolishly, is
obviously “not himself.” And
this attitude, with the men’s
own inherent good sense, may
have accounted for the satisfac-
tory result —the withdrawal of
their ultimatum and their agree-
ment to go to arbitration.
One could not but feel that
these were still the same men
who carried on with cheerful
valiance during the blitz; who,
two years ago, were undismayed
by the Great Frost, which
turned some thoroughfares into
dangerous obstacle-courses ; and
who, above all, are such good
neighbors to their fares. Many
of them could not hide their
shamefacedness over the cause
of the strike: that they should
be compensated for the loss of
Saturday-afternoon amenities by
extra pay at the half-rate.
There seems to have been no
evidence of flagrant Communist
provocation, but it is unlikely
that the hot-heads among the
30,000 or so who came out either
pulled their punches or lacked
direction from headquarters. It
is growing clearer that the
hardening of opinion against
Communist irrelevances was par-
ticularly strong, both among the
general public and among the
men themselves. We have
travelled far in a year.
Life-sentence
There are signs that the boom
in life assurance is running out.
Notwithstanding the high rates
of premiums and the cautious
bonuses that followed the pre-
sent Government’s cheap-money
policy, the industry has cer-
tainly experienced a boom. It
has been suggested that the 2\
years since VJ.-Day have ex-
tinguished the period during
which (a) young men returning
from the forces have taken to
settle down and ( b ) others have
increased their holding because
of the fall in the purchasing-
power of money.
The explanation would rather
seem to lie in the redistribution
of incomes during that period.
The middle - classes, who
formerly were the best customers
of life offices, are so crippled by
taxation and high living costs
that they are hardly in a position
to lay out more money in
premiums. But some workers in
industry, shopkeepers in cer-
tain trades and others whose
earnings have greatly exceeded
those of the pre-war years have
come into the market, which, per-
haps, has now reached its peak.
And, since savings have fallen
drastically, it may also be that
the public has more confidence
in the long experience and pri-
vate enterprise of the assurance
companies than in the Govern-
ment.
Opinion in the City has never
been confident that the Labor
Government would renew its
pledge to leave some branches
of the insurance industry alone.
Indications that the Socialist
theorists now have it earmarked
for a ride in the tumbril, with
other innocents as fellows (in-
cluding the shipbuilding, electri-
cal and aircraft industries), there-
fore comes as no shock. One
M.P., Mr. lan Mikardo, has
made insurance his special
charge. He has affirmed, ap-
parently without reference to
existing experiments, that it
could be conducted so much
more economically under
national control that it should
be possible to give away a free
householder’s comprehensive
policy with every contract of
life assurance. His audience was
composed not of actuaries or
underwriters but of members of
the Fabian Society.
The City is surprised, though:
it was argued that the Socialists
would wait until they were re-
turned a second time before
threatening further spendthrift
measures, as to act otherwise
would mean their losing too
many votes in the 1950 general
election. Maybe the financial
experts are so accustomed to
clear and logical reasoning that
they expect it of others.
“High Button Shoes”
There’s something of the
flavor of lease-lend about the
modern American “musical.”
After the production-lines of
Broadway have established a
show’s worth its blueprints are
conveyed across the Atlantic in
the care of a nucleus of princi-
pals ; and, since New York is
nearer to London than to Holly-
wood, mere distance may not be
the chief problem.
Not all of these ventures have
enjoyed the success of “Okla-
homa” and “Annie Get Your
Gun,” both of which appear to
have the seal of eternity im-
pressed upon their runs. Two,
in fact, were immediate failures.
How does the latest of these
re-creations, “High Button
Shoes” (London Hippodrome),
compare? And has it quality
enough to weather the longer
journey across the Pacific?
Taking its title from the type
of footwear then in fashion
(1913) and for no other ap-
parent reason, a contemporary-
seeming lantern-slide assures us
that although the events “hap-
pen to happen in New Bruns-
wick,” they might equally have
happened anywhere else. There
is some, truth in this, since cos-
tumes and manners weren’t very
different in Kensington or
Brighton; but the collegiate
ritual and the “big” football-
game hoodoo are puzzling and,
to British audiences, unaccount-
able, The stylised simplicity of
“Oklahoma’s” Middle West and
the rip - roaring gust of
“Annie’s” Wild West are happily
legendary—but not the other.
It is fair to say that this tasty
confection has other more palat-
able ingredients. All the charac-
ters, good and bad, share a
natural, engaging charm and are
agreeably unsophisticated. Much
effective use is made of ballet.
The bathing scene on the beach
at Atlantic City 4s an unforget-
table riot of action, a dazzle of
color and a joyous bounce of
movement. We find ourselves
back again in the Keystone
Age. Basin-hatted cops acro-
batically fumble and flounder;
and the vamps and crooks and
cross-eyed comic are so true to
memory that they do everything
but flicker.
The team of mixed nationali-
ties —and mixed accents —is led
by Lew Parker. All of them
are superior to the lines
they have to speak. The music
and lyrics of Messrs. Styne and
Cahn are happily wedded in
taste and period ; and there are
catchy tunes which, whether or
not they actually precede the
show in other lands, will cer-
tainly outlive it. The pity is
that the “book” falls short of
the quality of the rest.


riADinoN
SINCE 1847
ChJLatvae 100 YEARS BETTER
PERSONAL ITEMS
Revisiting Brisbane on a spell from
his strenuous job as U.N.O. Director of
Refugees and Displaced Persons, Raphael
Cilento’s latest experience in mercy work
has been among d.ps. in Syria. The
U.N.O. job followed an appointment as
U.N.R.R.A. Zone Director in the
British zone of Germany, and that in
turn was probably an enlargement of ex-
perience gained through his work with
U.N.O.’s predecessor, the League of
Nations, when he toured Fiji and Papua
for that body after the first war. At one
time Director of the Tropical Medicine
Institute at Townsville, then head of the
Commonwealth Tropical Hygiene De-
partment, and later Director-General of
Health in Queensland, he is a world
authority on malaria and filaria, which,
existing in a mild form in N. Australia,
is the mother of elephantiasis in the
Islands. A cheerful soul, widely read, he
has a tidy raft of medical books and
pamphlets under his name and a knight-
hood awarded in 1935 for his work in
the Federal service.
H. B. Farncomb last week added two
more initials to his embellishments of
D.S.O. and M.V.O. Pinned on by the
G.-G. in Sydney, his C.B. recognises the
sustained competency of Farncomb’s
leadership when, early in 1945, wearing
his flag in H.M.A.S. Australia at the
Lingayen Gulf landings, the ship took
five bomb-loaded “zombies” inboard and
lost 44 men killed and 69 wounded. Aus-
tralia withdrew for repairs, but Farn-
comb transhipped his flag to destroyer
Arunta, then Shropshire, and remained in
the area. The Admiral was nicknamed
“Fearless Frank” by Canberra’s crew
when, with caution engendered by the
loss of H.-M.A.S. Sydney, he stood off
two unarmed but suspicious-looking
raider supply-ships in the Indian Ocean
and belted them at long range. The
humorously bestowed pseudonym was
later really-made good.
Wjll Levick, the 17-year-old Sydney
High boy who’s been something of an
identity in Sydney chess circles since the
time when, in knickerbockers, he drew
with Grand Master Lajos Steiner, has
won the first Australian schoolboys’ chess
championship. He played through the
contest in Adelaide without losing a
game, though he drew once with the
Westralian rep. The young champion is
dux of Sydney High, and two days after
his win at chess his name was among
nine announced as having secured the
most distinguished passes in the Leaving
exams. He won first-class honors in two
subjects and a string of As in the others.
A likeable lad, he’s doing medicine this
year.
Retiring from the Reps., Frank
Brennan, who, with one short break, has
held the Batman seat for Federal Labor
since 1911. A brother of W. A. Brennan,
the “Argus” leader-writer who came out
of retirement to discuss Federal politics
in The Bulletin a few months ago,
Frank was Attorney-General with
Scullin’s crowd, and in 1930 he went to
Geneva as Australia’s principal rep. at
the League of Nations Assembly. The
year before he unearthed the fact that
James Kell, sometime governor of the
Commonwealth Bank, was drawing £lOOO
p.a. under the Commonwealth super-
annuation scheme, in “flat contempt of
Labor principles.” He moved the
adjournment of the House to call atten-
tion to the “scandal.” In those days there
were such things as political principles.
Now they’re out of fashion in “Labor”
circles.
The early career of F. W. Walton, who
has called it a day after 42 years with
South British Insurance, could be said
to have been one long accident. As the
firm’s accident superintendent from 1906
to 1924, when he took over the Sydney
branch-managership, it has been his busi-
ness to know more about his policy-
holders’ bad spells than, possibly, they
knew themselves. In his time he was
chairman of several Accident Under-
writers’ associations, and South British
rep. on the Australian council of those
bodies.
During the war Captain W. J. Craig, a
Maorilander, now stationed at Montreal,
served with the R.A.F. and R.N.Z.A.F.;
he commanded a squadron of flying-
boats at Singapore when the Japs com-
menced their drive. Since 1942 he’s been
flying with 8.0.A.C. on the transatlantic
route and recently received a master-
pilot’s certificate from the Ministry of
Civil Aviation —the eighth man in avia-
tion history to collect such a certificate
for land and marine aircraft.
Archie Colquhoun, whose Archibald
Prize entry has been bought by the
Sydney Gallery, was one of the Mel-
bourne National Gallery students who
joined the great secession when dozens
of them left that school and went to Max
Meldrum, fresh back from Europe with
a revolutionary attitude to painting. After
studying for some years with the master
he went to London and Paris, where his
pictures reached the major salons. With
his wife, Amalie, also a Meldrum pupil,
he then conducted a school in Melbourne,
one of his pupils being William Dargie,
who has won the Archibald five times.
Archie is a son of Alex Colquhoun, one-
time art critic for the “Age” and paint-
ing-master at the National Gallery for
some years.
When Beresford Fowler, Melbourne’s
most indefatigable producer of Shaw
plays, sent the old playwright the pro-
gramme of one of his productions of
“Candida,” on which the piece was called
“Shaw’s best-constructed play,” he re-
ceived a mildly-admonitory letter in
reply. “You must not describe ‘Candida’
as a ‘constructed’ play,” G.B.S. wrote.
“I had a famous controversy with
William Archer on the subject. My plays
grow and construct themselves as flowers
do. Constructed plays are like artificial
flowers or mechanical rabbits. I never
know what is coming a page ahead.”
With the letter was a copy of Shaw’s
version of the fifth act of Shakspeare’s
“Cymbeline,” which Fowler intends to
produce in Melbourne.
The benign physog. of Coventry’s
attached victim is the exclusive property
of George Pitt, who has just got home to
Adelaide after nine months in U.K. and
America adding a bit more to the know-
ledge of library systems which 42 years
in Adelaide’s public book-barn had
already given him. Immediately after the
first war he was put in charge of the
State’s archives, and in his 27 years at that
GEORGE PITT, librarian.
job he has surfaced, gathered and bound
about 300,000 documents. It’s not sur-
prising that incarceration in the archaic
vaults with so much wordage resulted in
a book of his own —a history of S.A.’s
newspapers, on one of which, the “Adver-
tiser,” his grandfather was chief printer.
Pitt collected a B.A. from Adelaide
’Varsity, is now principal librarian of the
city’s library, and in his spare tinfe reads.
Many sea-captains on their lawful occasions
visiting No. 35 Wills-street, Melbourne, the
permanent berth of the Commonwealth Direc-
torate of Navigation, will feel that a landmark
has been cancelled from the chart now that
Captain John King Davis has swallowed the
pick for good. “J.K.,” who ranks close astern
of Mawson, Shackleton and Wilkins in Antarctic
exploration, wore in his heyday a flaming,
torpedo-shaped beard, and in stature was an
outsize reproduction of Captain Kettle. Ad-
venturer, grand companion, a seafarer to whom
Adelie Island and Queen Mary Land, lonely
in the Southern Sea, were names as well known
as Paris to a Kansas City tourist, Davis shirked
no effort, however arduous. He saw his first
iceberg as chief officer of Shackleton’s Nimrod
JOHN DAVIS, ex-seaman.
in 1907 —the job being clinched, it is said, dur-
ing a chance encounter with his future captain
in a London street —and for over 20 years there-
after, except for the time he joined the R.N.
in the Kaiser’s war and commanded Australian
transports, he seafared about the southern Polar
regions with Mawson and in his own com-
mand. One of the select few entitled to wear,
by King’s grant, two Antarctic medals with
two bars, he also owns to a highly-prized order
of merit awarded him by the Royal Geographical
Society. This was for a superb piece of navi-
gation when, without damage to ship or crew,
he conned his craft through 1500 miles of
uncharted ice-seas to land two parties of
Mawson’s men. He left his name behind him
in the Davis Sea. In 1917, after being stranded
himself on Cape Evans, he searched for and
rescued a party of Shackleton’s second ex-
pedition in similar straits in the Ross Sea.
Four years later he came ashore to Wills-street,
where deep-water ships and English literature,
have been his interests, an age-limit now en-
forcing his retirement.
Sydney Birrell, recently installed as
head serang of Melbourne Legacy, was
born at Woodend (Vic.) in 1896. He
had a brief spell in the Public Service
before embarking with the 37th Battalion
as a ranker in 1915. He came back with
a commission, a Passchendaele M.C. and
two m.i.ds. The P.S. couldn’t retain his
interest, and he had a shot at soldier-
settlement with 21 other Old Diggers,
forming the Ned’s Corner Pastoral Co.
He started as a boundary-rider, and when
the co. sold out to Walter Kidman, of
Adelaide, in September last, it rated a
board of directors, of which Birrell was
one. Characterised for long by a broad
interest in his countrymen, he joined
Legacy in its early days, and before his
latest elevation had been chairman of
almost every committee in the club. Golf
is his spare-time specialty; looking after
his hillside farm at week-ends his chief
hobby.
Elsie Beyer, who managed the Old Vic.
visit last year, has such a high opinion
of Australia as a potential field for
drama that she has resigned the general-
managership of the Shakspeare Memorial
Theatre at Stratford to start a circuit in
this country. She proposes to bring out
her own company to play the Bard, the
Greek dramatists and modern comedies
and dramas. In addition, Tyrone Guthrie
is coming out at Canberra’s unofficial
invitation to advise on the establishment
of a National Theatre, the Stratford
company is thinking of bringing a Shak-
spearean repertoire and Robert Morley
has ideas of coming with his com-
pany to play his own “Edward, My Son,”
now doing well in New York. In view
of all this 1949 should be as bumper a
year for theatregoers as it promises to
be for music-lovers.
“C. 8.”: The statement (B. 15/12/’4B)
that the late Alfred Coleman, water-
colorist, was related to the Coleman of
theatrical fame needs amending. The
two men were in no way related —the son
of the scenic artist is W. R. (Bill) Cole-
man, still alive and kicking. Bill was
associated with his father in painting the
Firm’s stage productions for 21 years
and afterwards joined F. W. Hiring for
the “Efftee” film and stage productions.
Being a* staff officer in the militia he was
called up in 1939 for the duration and
gained the 0.8. E. and E.D. and the rank
of lieutenant-colonel. In World War I
he was a lieutenant in the Fourth Light
Horse. In 1945 he was appointed to
Rehab, as chief liaison-officer, a job he
still holds.
Granted this month the right to wear
the two-balled flag of a Rear-Admiral,
Robert Kirk Dickson, D. 5.0., R.N., was
last in Sydney as captain of light fleet-
carrier Theseus. Monotony had small
place in his 30-odd years afloat. A
snotty at the Falkland Islands and Jut-
land affairs, he cox’ned landing-boats at
Gallipoli, served in Warspite and Ramil-
lies in the years between the wars, and
in War II was appointed driver of
what was then the Navy’s fastest craft,
minelayer Manxman. He laid her eggs
along enemy North Sea coasts and in
the Mediterranean, was in at the Mada-
gascar landings, returned to Musso’s
theatre, ran the last load of food to be-
sieged Malta and was first in again when
the siege was lifted. At the North
African invasion his ship caught a tor-
pedo and, badly crippled, was towed into
Oran. War’s end found him in the Ad-
miralty as Deputy-Director of Plans, with
a D.S.O. and three m.-i.-ds. won afloat.
Appointment to Theseus came in
January, 1947, and though this page is
unaware of his present whereabouts it
would confidentially bet he’s not in a rest-
home.
“Victor K.”: I have sat for hours at
a time on a darkened verandah at Anner-
ley (Q.) listening to the anecdotes and
brilliant commentaries on Australian
writers and writing that made Jack
Mathieu, the blind poet, the best of con-
versationalists. Now, at 77, old Jack has
slipped out to catch up again with some
of his old mates —Lawson, Joseph
Furphy, Shaw Neilson (whom he didn’t
know much, but almost worshipped),
Steele Rudd, Ashton Murphy (the car-
toonist), Ran Bedford and a host of other
Bulletin good fellows and good writers,'
Jack was blind for half his lifetime, and
had never seen his own children ; but
that did not mar the keenness of his wit
and his analysis of men and motives. He
wrote a lot of short stuff in par. and
story, and sheafs of ballad verse, but
only one book came out of it all, Back-
block Ballads and Lignum Lyrics. He
was a foundation member of the Queens-
land Authors and Artists’ Association,
and his last appearance in public was
at the funeral of Steele Rudd in 1935.
Several of us were sitting in the funeral
parlor when a solitary devotee walked in
unobtrusively and took a seat in front.
It was Forgan Smith, then Premier, and
after the funeral he drove the blind poet
and his wife home to Annerley.
Into the silence:—-
In London, Carolin Nias, daughter of
Admiral Sir Joseph Nias, captain of HM S.
Herald when it took Captain William Hobson,
first M.L. Governor, to the Bay of Islands in
1840. Hobson was at the signing of the Treaty
of Waitangi in February the same year, and
Admiral Nias witnessed the chiefs signing or
attaching their marks as the treaty was hawked
round the island.
In Melbourne, Mrs. Thomas Alexander Wil-
son, daughter of the William Graham who dis-
covered the Spring Hill Gold Leads at Creswick,
Vic. She was the sister of two of “the lost
children” in the tragedy of 1867, well re-
membered by Daylesford pioneers.
At Victor Harbor (S.A.), at 59, while holiday-
ing, William Henry Sheppard, 0.8. E., manager
of Mercantile Mutual Insurance, Red Cross
chief, and former president of the Legacy Club
in S.A. He served in Egypt and France during
the Kaiser’s war, and has been a stalwart ad-
ministrator of Diggers’ organisations since he
transferred from Sydney for the Mercantile in
1925.
In Brisbane, at 45, Dr. Clive Sippe, a few
days before a party planned to farewell him for
post-graduate study in London. A specialist
in chest diseases, he was with the A.A.M.C. in
the Middle East and was in hospital ship Man-
unda when she was bombed in Darwin’s first
raid.
At Young (N.S.W.), Stanley Burtenshaw, in a
motor accident. A dirt-track rider widely known
among the fraternity, before World War I he
was Australian champion. In Brisbane in
March, 1914, he cleaned up all four titles at
one meeting. By profession he was a dentist.


Women's letters
From Melbourne
A last visit was paid by Lady Dugan,
president of the Victorian division of the
Red Cross, when members of the council
and heads of departments met in the
council-room to say good-bye to her.
The bouquet, presented by Matron E.
Johnson, of Rockingham Convalescent
Home, was made from roses picked in
the gardens of Red Cross convalescent
homes. The chairman of the Victorian
division, knight Robert Knox, thanked
Lady Dugan for her great services to Red
Cross, and the vice-chairman, Howard
Buchanan, also expressed his good wishes
to the Governor’s lady. Wearing a silk
frock, patterned in navy, red and white
and a wide-brimmed navy straw hat with
a scarlet crown, Lady Dugan, in a short
speech, said she had never known prouder
moments than when she wore'the uniform
of the Red Cross. She also said she
would take home to England all her ex-
periences in Red Cross to enrich the
British Red Cross. Mrs. A. B. Sander-
son, on behalf of Junior Red Cross, pre-
sented Lady Dugan with a tray made
from used matches, the work of the
Thornbury branch. A specially-
bound copy of Mary and Elizabeth
Durack’s The Magic Trumpet, which had
finger-painted covers done by J.R.C.
members, was also presented to Lady
Dugan.
When she was married to Rene Henri
at St. John’s, Toorak, Joan Saunders wore
a period-model bridal gown of off-white
chiffon, the flowing skirt of which had a
draped waistline and a bustle. A finger-
tip veil of Brussels lace was attached to a
tiny cap of the same lace, and her bouquet
was of orange-blossoms. Joan’s small
niece, Denise White, was her only attend-
ant ; her long frock of off-white chiffon
was worn over a pastel-pink taffeta under-
skirt, and with a tiny cap of Florentine
lace. Geoff Brooke was best man. Mr-
and Mrs. Jeffrie Saunders gave the recep-
tion at Menzies’. Among the young
friends of the bride were June Manson, in
a ballerina frock of honey-toned lace, and
Pauline Priestley in a black crepe and
lace frock. Bride and ’groom later supped
at Ciro's, and many of the guests went on
to dance at. Claridge’s. The honeymoon
will be spent in Tasmania.
Returned travellers who have a keen
appreciation of overseas fashion trends
say that details are so pronounced that
their sum total makes the silhouette.
Skirts run the gamut from Dior’s full,
short styles, sometimes with an uneven
hemline that is Min. from the floor, to
Jacques Fath’s tube skirts, in which
women who wear them will not walk but
wriggle. Waistlines range from the
directoire to normal, and shoulders from
the slightly squared to the dropped, seam-
less ones. Cloche hats will resist winter
winds, and the little bonnets will be a
pleasant change. But the head-hugging
line of the season’s new hats will be
trimmed to suit individual tastes. There
is a strong trend towards the dip-to-one-
side in skirts and necklines. The slanted
neckline is one of fashion’s new ideas and
is shaped in a bodice which clings to one
shoulder, dips off-side towards a deep
neckline and rises off and away from the
other shoulder. Evening gowns bare one
shoulder and swathe the other in chiffon,
and dinner dresses hang on a single
shoulder-strap. Skirts are to slant in
three ways; in the dipping of a hemline,
in the side-sweeping of a skirt, and,
newest of all, in the diagonal line, which
cuts below the waist and curves across
almost to the hips on the other side.
Most of the lovely pre-war fabrics are
back, in Paris, anyhow: Lyons velvets, in
jewel tonings, brocades which look as
though they had been hand-made, beaded
and embroidered velvets, stiff failles, and
lightweight taffetas.
The party given by Richard Linton at
the home of his parents, Sir Richard and
Lady Linton, was quite a super affair.
Madame Maud was one of the guests ;
her black faille dinner-jacket was worn
over a white, lace blouse, and her small
black straw curvette carried three large
white daisies. Peter Gray and his wife,
Daphne Newton, stars of “Present
Laughter, were there, Daphne in a
graceful gown of blue silk with a Paisley
design. Pam Myer was with brother
Rod. Pam Dickenson’s gown was of
white organdie and broderie Anglaise.
Mrs. Eric Avery’s green and rose-red-
patterned off-the-shoulder chiffon gown
had a full, spreading skirt. Her sister,
Mrs. Iris Clarke, wore floral cottons,
trimmed with red ric-rac braid. Carolyn
Adair garbed her petite figure in black-
and-white-patterned chiffon. With her
black ballerina frock Mrs. Jean Patterson
wore gold sandals. Mrs. Charles Norman
and Dorothy O’Keefe were in black
ensembles. Trixie Johnson’s chiffon
frock had an etched design.
Madame Maud, who is one half of the
famous Parisian millinery firm of Maud
et Nano, is a joy to meet. She has a soft,
musical voice, a peaches-and-cream com-
plexion, uses very little make-up, has a
trim figure and softly-curling grey hair.
When presswomen met her in the lounge
of Menzies’ over a cup of morning-tea
Madame wore a simply-cut frock of
salmon-pink-and-white-printed silk and
one of her own bonnet-shaped hats of
fine navy straw threaded with white
chiffon. Her accessories were navy.
“Once,” she said, “women used to make
me cry when they were buying hats, but
not any more.” And it is the temper, not
the face, of the woman buying the hat
that worries milliners most, Madame
Maud contends. She thinks a hat is like
a flower added to a dress to make it more
beautiful and outstanding.
This famous milliner likes small hats
for dinner and the theatre, but not with
full evening-dress. Her forecast for the
coming season is: Dresses will be shorter
and the silhouette tighter and hats will be
small. Models brought from Paris by
Madame Maud have small pointed
crowns; also in the collection are head-
hugging caps. Before opening her own
salon, Madame Maud worked in a mil-
linery establishment for 24 years. The
firm’s Parisian workshop employs about
90 girls.
Menzies’ was the venue for the luncheon
party given by Mesdames S. Aarons, G.
Staley, W. McDermott, B. J. Hattam
and Leith Crow for Mrs. Les Sangster,
who with her husband left for England
in the Orcades. The guest of honor wore
an ice-blue jacket-suit and white straw
hat. June Clyde, star of “Born Yester-
day,” added to her blue-and-white Paisley
printed frock a perky little blue hat
trimmed with violets. Phyllis Robbins,
“the girl without a dog,” due shortly at
Sydney Tivoli, was in a sun frock of
Wedgwood-blue-and-white cotton. Peggy
Bernaldo’s frock was of amber-and-white
check taffeta, her wide-brimmed hat of
natural straw. A pointed crown and
black velvet trimmings were features of
the natural straw hat worn by Mrs. David
Harlem. Mrs. Archie Crow’s frock was
teal-blue. Sadie Kaufman’s navy jacket-
suit was worn with a white straw hat.
Jeanette Caldwell, who has one of the
leading roles in Terence Crisp’s produc-
tion of “Dr. Brent’s Household,” a three-
act play by Edward Percy, is the daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. G. W. Caldwell, of
Toorak. On the outbreak of war she
joined the Red Cross, later working at
CRYPTIC CROSSWORD
PAGE 35
the Navy office. Love of the theatre
began with Jeanette at school, when she
was a pupil of Terence. In between
housekeeping for the family and appear-
ing in amateur productions —she has
appeared in a number of Little Theatre
productions—Jeanette keeps in trim with
tennis, swimming and riding.
“Dr. Brent’s Household” is a grim and
rather harrowing play which centres
around a wife who has just returned,
seemingly cured, after some years in an
asylum. Among the first-nighters were
Mrs. Dan Reddan, in a frock of black
faille, which had a full skirt, deep square
neckline and a hip-bow. Assisting in
the front of the house were Phyllis
Connor, whose royal-blue chiffon skirt
was worn with a long-sleeved blouse of
off-white chiffon; Margaret Abbs, in
blue-and-white-candy-striped seersucker,
trimmed with white ric-rac braid, and
Gaynor Stidson, her ice-blue gown of
figured organdie.
From Sydney
The grounds of Canonbury at Darling
Point wore carnival air last Wednesday.
Canonbury is an offshoot of what every-
body calls “the Crown Street Women’s
Hospital,” though fortunately it is not
only the women of its own street who
benefit by its services. The lawn as you
step inside the Canonbury gates was
bright with an awning almost as im-
pressive as the Durbar tent at the Royal
garden-parties. Here the ceremony of
the afternoon took place. This was the
presentation to Matron Shaw of “Crown
Street” of eulogy for her grand work dur-
ing 30 years’ service in the hospital, and
of a fob-watch in platinum and dia-
monds to remind her minute by minute
of the friendship of all who work and
have worked with her.
The Governor, Lieut.-General North-
cott, whose own granddaughter was born
in the hospital, travelled up from Mel-
bourne to make the presentation. C. R.
McKerihan, president of the hospital’s
board, was the afternoon’s chairman, and
Mrs. McKerihan contributed navy crepes
and a white hat to the gaiety. Dr. Dixon
Hughes, of honorary-medical-staff re-
nown, flew from Murrurundi, where he
was holidaying, for the friendly ceremony.
When this was ended the guests, about
600 of them, wandered around to the
front lawns overlooking the harbor, and
there drank tea and congratulated one
another on the fine record of this baby
hospital. Matron Shaw spent the week-
end with the vice-regals at Sutton Forest,
and attended the christening of the baby
granddaughter.
This is Annie-Get-Your-Gun as herself
Evie Hayes, without gun, and when she
smiles. As Annie, of course, she
has crept into the hearts of her Sydney
public, as she did with her Melbourne
audiences.
One could almost hear the rustle of
dry leaves stirred by the breath of autumn
in Paterson, Laing and Bruce’s show-
room last week. Here the Hugh Beres-
ford autumn models were shown to
admiring eyes—and the word “admiring
is used with its old meaning of surprise.
For these hats for the fall of the year
with its shorter days were in the pastel
tones we associate with summer. They
were also flower-trimmed —roses, no less.
You’d be surprised what fine neighbors
flowers and pheasant or goose quills
make. To describe these hats you would
have to be an expert, and if you were
an expert you would be making, not wear-
ing, them. But if romance is your pur-
suit you couldn’t do better than the little
number named “Romance” by its maker.
Melusine, a soft-haired felt, is one of
Hugh’s favorite hat-forming fabrics.
Everybody in the big warehouse was
thrilled over the show, so that once across
the threshold you had the feeling of be-
ing one in a family reunion. Mr. Beres-
ford’s running commentary was amusing,
and the directors listened with plea-
sure. It was all rather fun, and you
needn’t have Gipsy blood in your veins
to foretell that the lavenders, the pale-
pinks, the melting blues and greys would
be more becoming than the blacks, the
browns and the navys to which we have
accustomed ourselves once the tempera-
ture drops to the fifties. All the 'hats
are made with a brim, and all fit the head.
But the brims are worn with a difference,
so that they often have a halo effect.
Sometimes the' halo has a provocative
slant, as not worn in Eden. Very like-
able was the “clotted-cream” hat which
had two white birds perched in the front.
Talking of flowers, Sydneysider Mat-
thew Macdougall, now in the Hugh
Beresford studio in London, made some
of the beauties blooming on the hats in
the collection.
An Arabian Nights glitter washed the
stage in brightness for Puccini’s “Tur-
andot.” The golden princess who walked
down the great stairway in the second
act —the yards and yards of her golden-
lined-with-pale-apple-green train held out-
spread by two white-clad attendants,
was, of course, the graceful Germana 31
Giulio. She entranced the gaze, but it
Was the little slave-girl Liu in love with
the prince who captured the heart. She
was Rina Malatrasi, and when she died
to save the man she loved so vainly from, -
as she thought, death, there wasn’t a
woman in the house worthy of the name
who didn’t hope her ghost might return
and stick pins in Turandot and Calaf on
their wedding-night. Cool-looking on the
torrid night was Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere,
her flowing frock of apple-green sprinkled
with white foliage. This night brought
out flowers and shawls. Many were worn
like scarves, but Mrs. C. T. Lorenz wore
hers —it was white Chinese silk thickly
embroidered —so that the point came to
the hem of her skirt.
Men and women who had made
Sydney young and gay in the beginning
years of this century turned up, a little
older-looking, maybe, but just as
debonair, at Mrs. Bertie Kelly’s 75th
birthday party. Then there were the
thirties and forties and a few twenties.
It was a colorful scene set in the Pick-
wick Club. Mrs. Kelly stood straight
and graceful wearing a palely-pink-and-
gold-faponne frock that swept out to
softly-swaying shoulder-drapes. The skirt
was very long, the low neckline cut
square. There was the suggestion of a
medieval painting about the whole. With
this went a pearl tiara, a long necklace
of pearls, and a spray of patrician orchids
presented by the knightly Morshead
couple.
Down the length of the Pickwick Club
ran a long table garnished with a lush
and colorful still-life display in which the
rich red of lobsters, the golden brown of
sucking-pig, the greens of salad were
dominant. In the middle of the table was
set a small pond on which water-lilies
drowsed, unheeding the lobsters trying to
claw their way over the brim. It seemed
to have the elements of a Chinese poem,
and Charles Little, who knows a great
deal about Chinese art, cast a reflective
glance at it. Mrs. Sep Levy was at the
party —her frock an affair of wide black
and grey bands. Ernest Watt was as
usual surrounded by friends. Mrs.
Ernest was a pretty picture in her blue
flowered chiffons and a black hat soft
with uncurled ostrich fronds. Mrs.
Charles Lloyd Jones and brother Dr. Ben
Jones were forced to early departure, as
the C.Ls. went off in the Orcades the
following day. Everybody’s friend
Tommy Cochran drank a parting toast
before going off (also in the Orcades) to
Melbourne.
Knight Harry Moxham and his
wife, Lieut.-General Berryman and Mrs.
Berryman, who was very attractive in a
soft grey afternoon frock and a large
black hat, Captain Skewes, Gag Beaton,
whose uncle John Dailey was one of
Sydney bright young things in the
’nineties, and his wife, Jimmy Bancks,
who is a wit in addition to being
a clever cartoonist, the Kelso King
lady, the Brisbins, the McCowans,
the Joe Fallons, Miss McQuade were
interwoven in the afternoon’s pattern. A
graceful personality was Mrs. Mc-
Phillamy, one of Mrs. Kelly’s daughters.
After the party Mrs. Kelly went off to
keep a dinner engagement, and before it
she had been the guest of a large-scale
lunch at the Royal Sydney Golf Club.
Married on a quiet note last Friday
were Margaret Burns, only daughter of
the Jimmy Burnses of Bowral, and Brian
Page. St. Mary’s blessed the vows. Bride
w'ore a summery white frock and a large
black hat. Her mother and father, who
sailed in the Orcades on Saturday, gave a
small lunch-party in the Australian Club
to celebrate.
Melbourne soprano Kathleen Goodall’s
singing was as charming as her appear-
ance last Saturday night. Kathleen was
the soloist of the duo-piano concert given
by Maryon Rawicz and Walter Lan-
dauer. Kathleen’s crepe frock was a
soft moonstone-blue, and on the right
shoulder she wore a spray of tiger-lilies.
Beautiful frocks were worn by the two
pianists’ wives, who were a good-looking
addition to the audience. Maynard Wil-
kinson was the accompanist.
Dr. George Mackaness roused himself
from his Lawson Bibliography, soon to be
published by Angus and Robertson, to
comment with a little bitterness on a
slight to his old friend Matthew Flinders.
The seventh of January passed and
nobody commented on the fact that 150
years ago, on that day, Matthew com-
pleted the circumnavigation of Van
Diemen’s Land, thus proving it was an
island. Now up in Drummoyne the
doctor, a chip on his shoulder, is waiting
to see if August 9 will go by without the
papers reminding that 250 years earlier
William Dampier, the first white man to
step on Australian soil, landed in W.A.
In his cottage at River-road, Camden,
Hugh McCrae has completed his Story
Book Only. This includes many so far
unpublished stories, and a repiint of other
well-knowns of which Australia cannot
have too many. Hugh is now in town
, staying with the Norman Cowpers.


progress or lighting
Mill III! Ml
m
m
'
Gas, as a lighting medium, was first
employed by William Murdock, in
England, in 1792. Some twenty years
later the first public coal-gas lamps
were installed on Westminster Bridge,
London. In 1886 the incandescent
mantle, introduced by Dr. Welsbach,
replaced the “fishtail” type of burners
and completely revolutionised the
application of coal gas for lighting
purposes.
Gas was a vast improvement on pre-
ceding methods of indoor and outdoor
lighting, but, in turn, gave way to
the more convenient and otherwise
superior electric light, as exemplified
to-day by Osram Electric Lamps.
w Osraro
THE WONDERFUL LAMP
Made in Australia for The General Electric Co. Ltd. of England.
(Sole Australian Representatives of The General Electric Co. Ltd. of London)
SYDNEY •
BRISBANE
NEWCASTLE
• PERTH
MELBOURNE
HOBART «
• ADELAIDE
LAUNCESTON
8.G.05
ODD/
%
OFF/
m
mg*
%
hen you open your pay envelope do you ever
consider how you can get more value for your
money? Perhaps you spend the notes carefully
enough, but what about the loose shillings and
pence? Does that odd money go into your pocket
to dwindle away without a second thought?
Now is the time to realise how quickly such
money will accumulate. When saved every pay
day, it will bring you comfort and peace of mind.
Get more value for your earnings by saving some-
thing every week with an account in the
COMMONWEALTH
<sywsfc^BANK
EVERY BANKING FACILITY
IS AVAILABLE AT ALL BRANCHES
C.S.B. 26-8:
THE SERVICE MAN
Dr. Evatt's Army.
“Ek Dum”: It has been an-
nounced in Canberra, quite off-
handedly, by somebody that the
Army has “completed the or-
ganisation of a brigade of 3000
troops.” This, of course, means
that if it is a brigade the numbers
will be nearer 10,000 troops all
told.
The brigade is to be “at full
strength and highly trained,” and
will be part of the International
Police Force at the disposal of
U.N.O. Its officers are said to
have been selected, and Mr.
Chambers says that it will also
act as the field-combat force and
nucleus of expansion of the Aus-
tralian “Army” of 19,000
regulars.
It is good to see some en-
thusiasm for military matters on
the part of the present Govern-
ment. According to the official
golden-jubilee-number souvenir
of the Australian Labor party
published in March, 1940 —to
which one of the leading contri-
butors was Dr. Evatt, the hater
of force in international disputes
—a large section of the Federal
Labor party, “including Mr. E. J.
Ward, senior Labor member in
N. S. Wales, is in favor of an
immediate peace” [with Hitler],
and “Labor stands united
throughout the Commonwealth
against compulsory military
training or any other form of
conscription, and against sending
troops overseas.” That has al-
ways been its stand since 1916.
Its jubilee statement of 1940
was printed at the moment when
Germany was about to invade
the little countries of Europe.
Labor in office would not even
send “compulsory” troops across
the Equator to rescue the poor
p.-0.-w. of Sandakan —they were
content to leave that job to vol-
unteers and Americans, which
meant that the effort must be too
late.
Against the requests of the
Americans, the Government has,
within the past few weeks, with-
drawn most of the 34th Brigade
from Japan. This, properly
used, could have done valuable
work in providing a basis of
liaison with the Americans,
establishing a knowledge of their
training methods and getting to
know their weapons. But the
present Government does not
want troops brigaded with
Americans the Communist
union-leaders don’t like it.
The reason of the withdrawal
has now become apparent. The
troops are to be used as a
nucleus of Dr. Evatt’s private
army, to be at the disposal of a
gibbering body of world nations
which is dominated through the
veto and bloc votes by the only
country we are likely to fight—
the U.S.S.R.
It is an alarming prospect
illustrative of the utter foolish-
ness of Our Foreign Policy and
the unfitness of those who
operate it to be trusted with any
authority. It is also dangerous
to our security.
Parliament should have the
matter thrashed out thoroughly.
It is significant that the Gov-
ernment has no troops to help
prevent the murder of Australian
citizens by Communists in
Malaya.
Our New Citizenship.
“Ek Dum”: During last week
Australians were apprised that,
subject to certain conditions,
they had become Australian citi-
zens and British subjects by
courtesy of Dr. Evatt and the
Caucus of the Australian Labor
party. Whatever change has
been made has not occurred be-
cause Mr. Chifley and Mr.
Calwell decided that Australians
deserved to be honored by some
change in status but because they
and other Socialists in the British
Commonwealth decided on a
weak compromise to please
India and some other parts of
the British Empire which wished
to be in a strategic position to
move out of it.
The position is worth examin-
ing. It was announced to be
operative on “Australia Day,”
which is not the day on which
Australia became endowed with
corporate existence as a nation
but that on which Captain
Phillip landed on these shores
with about a thousand convicts
under guard.
Nobody would like to recite,
on Australia Day, now adopted
by Mr. Chifley and his Cabinet,
the speech of Governor Phillip
on that occasion. He thanked
the soldiery for their steady
good conduct. To the civilian
inhabitants he “distinctly ex-
plained the nature of their pre-
sent situation.” The greater
part, he bade them recollect, had
already forfeited their lives to
the justice of their country, and
he rejoiced that, they would be
unlikely to get into much more
mortal mischief because they
“were removed almost entirely
entirely from every temptation
to guilt.”
There was little in this
infant community, he said,
which one man could plunder
from another, and any dishonest
attempts in so small a society
would almost infallibly be dis-
covered. To persons detected in
such crimes he could not promise
any mercy... .Against offenders,
therefore, the rigor of the law
would certainly be put into
force; while those whose be-
havior should in any degree
promise reformation might
always depend upon encourage-
ment fully proportioned to their
deserts. And then he made a
few reflections on the morals of
the community in general and
promised every kind of counten-
ance and assistance to those who
should prefer marriage to other
methods of association and short
shrift to sinners, one or two of
whom were soon hanged out of
hand.
Meanwhile, it is symptomatic
of the tongue-in-cheek nature of
Canberra patriotism that the site
on which the Commonwealth of
Australia came into existence is
almost completely forgotten by
the Chifleys. Its cracked, dirty
and trifling memorial is hidden
away in the environs of a third-
grade cricket-pitch in a plain
and uninspiring park in Sydney.
Last time the writer passed by it
was decorated with a smashed
beer-bottle and the flotsam of
somebody’s dissipations. And
the day on which the ceremony
of inauguration took place, with
its voiced aspirations that this
country might become a nation
with one voice, one flag and one
destiny, is never marked by the
Commonwealth Government or
the Parliament which is the
emanation of it.
However, we have now be-
come Australian “citizens” and
British “subjects.” It is worth
while to have a look at what
this means. A citizen, according
to tjje dictionary, “is a member
of a community or State enjoy-
ing rights and privileges as a
burgess and bound by duties of
loyalty.” A subject is a person
“owing or giving allegiance to
a sovereign State.” The word
“subject” or “national” implies
both loyalty and subjection to the
laws of the sovereign State, also
that the State to which he or she
owes allegiance has full power
to enforce that allegiance.
Dr. Evatt and Mr. Calwell
claim that their changes have
brought us the status of a free
and independent nation in a
comity of nations, but the fact
is that as a nation they cannot
even make laws of the Com-
monwealth to compel loyalty
and subjection to the will of the
nation. Only parts of the Com-
monwealth —sovereign and inde-
pendent in their own sphere—
have the power to do that.
If anybody does not believe
this let him turn to Dr. Evatt’s
own judgment in the High Court
in the King v. Hush, ex parte
Devanny. He declared that
“legislation by the Common-
wealth Parliament was valid” if,
and only if, “the legislation
passed is upon a matter which
is truly incidental to the exercise
of the Commonwealth executive,
legislative or judicial authority.”
The Doctor said indignantly: “I
protest against the growing
tendency to assume, without
argument or proof, the existence
of an ‘inherent power’ in the
Commonwealth Parliament. In
this case the very name ‘Crimes
Act’ challenges inquiry, because,
unlike the Dominion of Canada,
the Commonwealth does not
possess general jurisdiction over
the domain of criminal law.”
And the truth of this opinion
was demonstrated later, after
World War 11, when the
Commonwealth wished to prose-
cute for treason an alleged col-
laborator with the Japanese and
found that it couldn’t do it. It
had to go cap in hand to a State
Attorney-General and have the
fellow prosecuted for treason
against the King of New South
Wales, because it was not trea-
son to collaborate with the
Japanese—even when wearing
the King’s uniform and holding
the King’s Commission issued
by the Governor-General on
his Majesty’s behalf —against
the King of Australia.
Australian citizens and British
subjects in their dual capacity
may therefore rejoice at their
unique position. They are citi-
zens of Australia. But they have
no liability to the Common-
wealth “in the domain of the
criminal As British sub-
jects, if the term means any-
thing, they are subject to British
criminal law in respect of
breaches of loyalty and also to
State criminal law.
The privilege of being a
British subject, however, is one
which has lost a lot of its value.
A few years ago most of the
work of British Consulates con-
sisted in staving off the impor-
tunities of locals who ardently
wished to be British subjects, be-
cause they knew that the privi-
leges of British subjects were
jealously guarded and would be
fought for to the last gasp ; be-
cause they knew that when they
became subject to British law
they were beyond the reach of
local tyranny. Today scarce a
Levantine would move out of
the shade to reach for a British
passport. Under a Socialist
Government any British subject
can be kicked by any Egyptian
or Israeli with importunity.
Under an Australian Socialist
Government Australian citizens
are murdered by Communist
ruffians every month and some-
times every week in Malaya
without producing any protests
or reprisals.
And Australian citizen and
British subject in the Chifley-
Calwell era cannot even be sure
what national anthem he should
sing. Mr. Calwell has discarded
the British National Anthem
which “British subjects” sing for
a jingle called “Advance Aus-
tralia Fair,” for the regular play-
ing of which the Government is
paying large royalties to
people who didn’t write it. The
Australian Broadcasting Com-
mission, on the other hand, on
the first of all Commonwealth-
recognised Australia Days,
played “Waltzing Matilda” in
negroid time, with crooner ac-
companiment, and declared that
it was “practically Australia’s
National Anthem.” Citizens
and/or British subjects can take
their choice, just as they can
about enlisting to defend the
country.
Somebody should tell Messrs.
Evatt and Calwell that a nation’s
loyalty can only be built up on
a basis of strength and unity, on
deeds and self-respect and on
an enforcement of the law,
backed by an example of in-
tegrity and impartiality to all
classes by the Government.


GUARD
fds
scttcbk/cis
PROTECTA
s Uni-
Suitable for every type of business it records
all Sales. Credits, Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing In appearance. Send for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agant&~
BYDNEY *
MELBOURNE .
ADELAIDE «
W a Penfold & Co. Pty. Ltd.
• Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
• Vardon & Sons Ltd.
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—-No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr- L.
Barrere brings t<s rupture sufferers an
entirely new method of control, the
result of 40 years’ practice and im-
provements, proved completely suc-
cessful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the
hand when placed flat upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, hold the intestine
in its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 25V), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
FRENCH
ICORN CUREI
Cures Callouses and Corns
Available at
[Anthony Horderns’!
Public Notices.
L DOMINGO ARREGUJ, of Spanish
nationality, born at Vizcaya, Spain, and
resident 24 years in Australia, now re-
siding at ' 175 Commonwealth Street',
Sydney, N.S.W., intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality and
Citizenship Act, 1948.
I, NORMAN BOSNAKIS, of Greek nation-
ality, born at Rastoria, Greece, and resi-
dent 24 years in Australia, now residing
at 179 Katoomba Street, Ratoomba, in-
tend to apply for naturalisation under
the Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
I, RIZZIERI RUGGIERO ALPHONSO
FERRUCI, of Italian nationality, born
at Maidenhead, England, and resident
eight years in Australia, now residing at
7 Cambridge Street, Penshurst, intend to
apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
I, CORNELIS VAN DEN BOOGAART,
of Dutch nationality, bom at Nymegen,
Holland, and resident 6J years in Aus-
tralia, now residing at Forest Road,
Lugarno, N.S.W., intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality and
Citizenship Act, 1948.
I, MARIE MAASEPP, of Esihonian
nationality, born at Tallinn, Esthonia, and
resident 10 years in Australia, now re-
siding at Preston’s, via Liverpool, N.S.W.,
intend to apply for naturalisation under
the Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
I, JEAN CHRETIENE THEODORE
VISSER, of Dutch nationality, born at
Batavia, N.E.1., and resident six years in
Australia, now residing at 4 Bamcleuth
Square, Elizabeth Bay, Sydney, intend
to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
I, LILY COOMBES, of Greek nationality,
bom at Cerigo, Greece, and resident 25
years in Australia, now residing at 218
Juno Parade, East Bankstown, intend to
apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
I, JOHN TOMCIK, of Czechoslovakian
nationality, bom at Benice, Czechoslo-
vakia, and resident 12 years in Australia,
now residing at Montah Avenue, Killara,
N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisa-
tion under the Nationality and Citizenship
Act, *•«.
KEEP
BRIGHT
To look and feel
bright, clear-eyed
full of pep and
energy all day—
every day—you must
have clean bowels, a
healthy stomach,
good digestion and
regularity. Nature
sometimes needs a
little help, and Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root
Pills supply this help
without the use of
harsh, habit-forming
drugs.
BRANDAUERS
Every point
guaranteed—
do not experiment with imitation*
C. BRANDAUER * CO. LTD.. BIRMINGHAM, ENG.
GCV
PENS
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster
S 3!
grusßoee
ST
1 1 )
II
GUARANTEED. NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
Delhi Aftermaths.
“Ek Dum”: The reactions
from the Delhi Conference on
Indonesia —of which Australians
have heard little, since the Aus-
tralian press gives little space to
these matters have been
generally unfavorable, if polite.
Even the “Times,” normally so
tender of Dominion feelings, has
reminded the Delhi debaters that
“the Security Council’s con-
demnation of the Dutch should
not be taken to imply any un-
qualified vindication of the In-
donesian Republic. The Re-
publican case is very strongly
represented in Delhi, while the
Dutch case, by no means neg-
ligible, seems likely to go by de-
fault.” Before the Dutch attack
upon the Indonesian Republic
(vide the “Times”) the Security
Council itself was beginning to
realise that Indonesian national-
ism is not a simple issue between
“I couldn't find any sixteen-inch shells , sir. Will two eight-inch ones do?"
Republican aspirations and
Dutch “colonialism” ; that there
are powerful movements in the
Netherlands East Indies which
acknowledge the Republic as a
colleague but no more. It is
said that “the Dutch plan of a
free Indonesia is wise; that in
that plan the Republic is en-
titled to its proper place, but to
no more than that place.” The
British have given their view in
practical form in permission to
Dutch aircraft to land on
Mauritius in order to overcome
India’s and Ceylon’s boycott.
In the light of a world opinion
hardening in favor of the Dutch
and becoming daily more aware
of the real background of the
struggle, it is strange to see the
supposed heroes of the South
Asian entente virtually on the
run.
Dr. Evatt has been at great
pains to explain himself. He
has explained carefully, but with
an embarrassed air,, that every-
thing that happened at Delhi has
been “strictly in accordance
with Australia’s general policy
of unwavering support for
the United Nations prin-
ciples and purposes, includ-
ing the settlement of all disputes
by conciliation and not by the
use of force.” Apart from the
fact that this statement implies
a sacrifice of Australia’s tradi-
tional policies to those of
U.N.0., it is obviously a specious
and inaccurate account of the
position in view of the fact that
Australia gave the lead in the
use of a species of force against
the Dutch in the shape of a de
facto blockade applied in en-
couragement of the initial re-
bellion of the Indonesians.
The next justification of the
conference comes from General
Carlos P. Romulo, the Philip-
pines delegate to the Delhi
talks, a “soldier” diplomat who
was perhaps a little too “diplo-
matic” when Japan seemed to be
on the top of the world —the
Filipino Government has “held
out the hand of friendship” to
Franco Spain.
According to the General “the
New Delhi Conference” —in-
cluding, of course, Dr. Evatt’s
minions —“took over the leader-
ship of Asia on the Indonesian
question”:
Most of the world’s population is
in Asia. In this area we have all
the things Russia needs and will need
most.. All Communist long-term plans
are directed towards controlling them.
The New Delhi Conference on In-
donesia prevented Communism cap-
turing the faith of Asia—.ln New
Delhi we created a bloc which can
perhaps be a balance of. power be-
tween the present two blocs.
Like nearly all the emanations
of the “great diplomacy” of the
past three years, while the world
has gone on its normal way,
though the bleaters of U.N.O.
have professed to run it, this
was accorded large headlines in
some leading Australian news-
papers ; but in the face of hard
facts it means about as much in
practical terms as one of Dr.
Evatt’s speeches on human
rights or the ranting of some
Panamanian delegate against the
Russian veto.
Dr. Evatt and his uneasy col-
league, General Romulo, can
talk till the cows come home
without deprecating one whit
what has happened in Asia this
week i—
(1) The Japanese elections have
been won by a party which' stands
for the antithesis of everything the
men of Delhi profess—one whose
policy is based upon Japan first and
Asia for the Asiatics a sound second.
(2) Anything that happened at Delhi
did not prevent the Communist rebel-
lion flaring up again in Malaya last
week, the murders including that of
an Australian, who leaves behind a
family resident in Perth. Not a word
has been said about it in Canberra.
(3) The Chinese delegate had to go
home to a Nanking just about to be
invaded by a Communist Army from
the north which is undoubtedly carry-
ing out a Russian policy under Rus-
sian direction.
(4) It is not known whether the
Burma delegate has been able to get
home. While he and his friends were
passing their windy resolutions in
New Delhi, his Marxist-minded Prime
Minister, Thakin Nu, announced that
his Ministry had resigned on January
20, “in view of the worsening situa-
tion brought about by the present
country-wide insurrection.”
The last heard of Rangoon, the
capital of Burma, four days later, was
that it was “isolated by rebel acti-
vity.” Rail and road traffic between
Rangoon and the inland was sus-
pended through the destruction of a
bridge 167 miles north of the capital.
The inland waterways system was
blocked; the telegraph-lines cut.
Meanwhile, it was interesting
to see how the Indonesian Re-
publicans had interpreted what
happened at Delhi. Their dele-
gate, Mr. Thamboe, on his way
to a U.N.O. meeting, thundered
in New York: “Holland, a
small province in Europe, has
challenged the whole of Asia.
Who will win?” And he spoke
of “Dutch stupidity in the rape
of Indonesia, having brought to-
gether the sovereign nations of
Asia in concerted action”—a
strong contrast to the viewpoint
of Mr. Romulo, the Filipino
who looks on the Delhi bloc as
an actual challenge to the only
effective sovereign nation on the
Asian mainland at the moment.
An Indonesian spokesman, so
far from being ready to adopt
Dr. Evatt’s policy of unwaver-
ing support for the talkie-talkie
policy of achieving settlements
of all disputes “by conciliation
and not by force” —mark that
Indonesia is a provisional mem-
ber of U.N.O. and just as much
bound to its policies as Dr.
Evatt—has been shouting in
Batavia through an official
spokesman that “large - scale
guerrilla warfare would flare up
in East Java within a week....
that 300,000 regular Republi-
can troops were still at large in
Java.”
Dr. Usman, the “Republican”
representative in Canberra, right
under Dr. Evatt’s conciliatory
nose, was glorying in the fact
that Republican shore-batteries
were in action against Dutch de-
stroyers, which “looked as if
they might” intend a landing at
Olehleh in North Sumatra and
that 200 Dutch troops had been
killed in January in East Java
and 450 casualties inflicted on
the Dutch between Benkoelen
and Padang in the same period.
And at the Security Council
the debates have been achieving
nothing except more abuse of the
Netherlands, the issue of more
orders which cannot be obeyed
to the Dutch and the brewing of
more bad blood.
“Ek Dum”: North China —
and not only Nanking—has been
in chaos since the flight of
Chiang Kai-shek. In Peking and
Tientsin the Communist con-
querors are reported to be
threatened with rebellion. The
main interest for the moment
centres on the peace agreement,
about which the Chinese National
Government —if there is such a
thing—appears to be pldying for
time. Moscow has shown con-
siderable impatience, and a
Soviet envoy has gone to China
to Communist H.Q. to give the
lie to the Kremlin’s frequent
denials that it had any interest
in Chinese Communists or that
there was any link between them
and the U.S.S.R. The Com-
munists have now demanded, as
a preliminary to peace talks, the
elimination of “psychological
warfare” and the handing-over
as war criminals of everybody
who is anybody in the Chiang
regime, from the Generalissimo
down to Mr. Wu, the Mayor of
Shanghai.
* * * *
Seven U.N.O. States, including
Britain and Australia —the latter
enthusiastically—have decided
to give recognition (de facto or
de jure) to Israel, about the size
of Brunette station, or a little
larger, and one-fifth the size of
Tasmania. The recognition was
accorded by Canberra enthusi-
astically as if it were sponsoring
the millennium. Yet the Chifley
Government won’t even consider
the idea of new States in Aus-
tralia because areas like Central
and North Queensland and the
New England don’t interest it
politically.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
U.S. ESPIONAGE REPORT.
Cabled accounts of the ex-
posures of Communist espion-
age in the U.S., and of current
and forthcoming trials based on
information supplied by self-
confessed former members of
the spy-ring (in particular, Whit-
taker Chambers and Elizabeth
Bentley), are best read against
the more solid background of
the reports issued by the inquir-
ing and examining Congres-
sional committee.
The substance of one of these
reports (an interim issue) has
already been given in “Uncabled
Additions.” It and the com-
mittee’s latest report certainly
give little support to the propa-
gated impression that the spy
inquiries and trials amount to
mere sensationalism. Thus, the
committee’s latest report opens:
“Communist espionage has
broken through the security
forces of the United States
Government and made off with
secret information of both mili-
tary and diplomatic character
concerning our national plans,
policies and actions.
“This espionage system has
been carefully developed over a
period of more than 25 years
and it has been successful to a
degree alarmingly critical to the
welfare and safety of the people
of this republic.”
This latest report is neces-
sarily also of an interim nature,
the committee stating that it is
still withholding “many of the
more intimate and extensive par-
ticulars of evidence sworn to by
witnesses under oath,” its reason
for not disclosing these being the
current or pending “prosecutions
against faithless Government
servants and other Soviet
agents.” The report deals in
detail with the confession by
Whittaker Chambers that, as a
member of the American Com-
munist party, he had for years
aided in passing on to Soviet
Russia the most secret U.S.
official information ; his accusa-
tions against various other
alleged Soviet agents (in par-
— N. Y. “World-Telegram."
THE SAINT AND THE SINNER.
ticular, the former U.S. State
Department official Alger Hiss);
and the committee’s protracted
examinations of Chambers, Hiss
and others, leading to indictment
of Hiss for alleged perjury.
Briefly, the committee, after
hearing both separately, called
Chambers and Hiss together be-
fore it; Chambers there repeated
his accusations against Hiss;
these Hiss, angrily denied, chal-
lenging Chambers to repeat them
outside the bounds of Congres-
sional immunity; Chambers not
only obliged but did so in a radio
broadcast; Hiss issued him with
a slander (or libel) writ; in pre-
trial examination by Hiss’s
attorney (an American legal
practice) Chambers was asked
if he had any documentary sup-
port for his charges, and there-
upon Chambers produced typed
documents, microfilms and other
copies of most confidential State
Department papers, which the
Congress committee at once held
to be of a most damning char-
s.ctcr
Out of that confronting of
Chambers and Hiss two court
actions are therefore pending:
the trial of Hiss for perjury be-
fore the Congress committee,
and Hiss’s action against Cham-
bers. Oddly enough, nobody,
apparently, had previously asked
Chambers to produce his in-
criminating documents, regard-
ing which the committee’s report
declares:
“State Department officials
have testified before the com-
mittee that publication of some
of these documents even today,
more than ten years after they
were originally written, would
endanger the national security.”
Mentioning “the wide diver-
sity of the subjects covered and
the confidential character of the
messages involved,” the report
adds:
“Perhaps the most significant
and disturbing feature is the fact
that Messrs. Sumner Welles,
John Peurifoy and Francis B.
Sayre, present or past high State
Department officers, all agree
that, with documents of this type
in their possession, agents of a
foreign Government would be
able to break the most secret
diplomatic codes of the United
States.”
The report includes the follow-
ing excerpt from Sayre’s testi-
mony, questioned by committee-
member Nixon: —
Mr. Nixon: “Mr. Sayre, in
this connection I have been
somewhat interested in com-
ments of some columnists and, in
fact, in one case attributed to an
anonymous source in the State
Department—l say ‘anonymous’
because the official sources have
spoken completely to the con-
trary on this point—to the effect
that the information contained in
these documents wasn’t import-
ant anyway and it didn’t make
much difference if the Russians
did get it or anything else.
“Do you agree that there was
nothing important or nothing
wrong with turning this stuff
over?”
Mr. Sayre: “I violently dis-
agree, not only because of the
substance of these cables, but
because some of them were in
the highly confidential codes.
“Now, some of these codes —-
for instance, the gray code, so-
called —I suspect that other Gov-
ernments had that, but they
didn’t have these highly confi-
dential codes; and for these
telegrams to get out at the time
they did meant that other Gov-
ernments could crack our codes,
and that, I think, is indescribably
horrible.”
Mr. Nixon: “In other Words,
it is not only a question of this
information, but it is the ques-
tion of the potential information
which they might have ob-
tained?”
Mr. Sayre: “By cracking the
code, which gives them the run
of the whole thing.”
On that testimony the report
comments:
“This, in fact, means that not
only did the Government which
received these identified docu-
ments have access to the infor-
mation available in them, but
that they, without question, also
had complete access to all of
the secret and confidential mes-
sages transmitted by the State
Department during the period
involved, through knowledge of
the code system. Since this was
in the general historical era of
the Stalin-Hitler pact, it is also
likely that Nazi Germany and
subsequently Japan may have
known our State Department
secret codes and communica-
tions, before and during the war.
“It should also be kept in mind
that the documents which Mr.
Chambers turned over to the
committee, and in the pre-trial
hearing, constitute only one
week’s supply of information
and a very small proportion of
the total volume which Cham-
bers had transmitted to the
Soviet Union prior to the time
he decided to break with the
Communist party.
“Chambers’s testimony is that
he first started to microfilm
documents and transmit them to
the Soviet Union in the early
part of 1935, and that the opera-
tion had continued weekly until
April, 1938.
“If the documents which have
been released by the committee
—only one week’s fraction of
the total volume which Cham-
bers had obtained and trans-
mitted to the Soviet agents—
were the only documents which
reached the Soviet Union, the
committee would consider the
effect on United States security
serious enough.
“However, the testimony of
Whittaker Chambers is that dur-
ing the two years previous to
the receipt of this particular
batch of documents, he had been
running a veritable espionage
production-line out of the State
Department and other depart-
ments of the Government, the
output of which was being
funnelled to Moscow by way of
a skilfully-run transmission-
belt.”
Chambers, the report further
states, testified before the com-
mittee that he had two sources
of information in the State De-
partment. “His principal source,
from which he obtained most of
the strictly confidential docu-
ments, operated in the following
manner:
“The source would bring the
documents out in a brief-case
and take them home. There,
Chambers would take over the
brief-case and go on to meet a
photographic expert at a pre-
arranged place. The expert
would take the brief-case and
documents to a laboratory in
Baltimore, put the documents on
film, and would return the brief-
case and contents to Chambers
the same night.
“Sometimes, Chambers stated,
it would be as late as 1 in the
morning before he got the brief-
case back. He would then pro-
ceed to the home of his source,
deliver the brief-case, and the
documents would be returned to
the State Department files.
“Chambers would then pick up
the microfilms in Baltimore,
place them in a tobacco-pouch,
and carry them to New York,
where he would deliver them to
a Colonel Bykov, of the Soviet
espionage system.”
In order “not to hamper the
prosecution of cases’,’ proceed-
ing or pending, the committee
withholds “the names of the
people whom Chambers has
given as co-conspirators in this
criminal activity.” It also has
“evidence of the manner in
which Colonel Bykov approached
the sources of information,” with
the presenting of the customary
costly gifts that always figure in
such cases, in this instance “ex-
pensive Russian Bokhara rugs,”
given, “in appreciation of their
NATURE STUDY.
unusual service to the Soviet
Union,” to “four high sources
in the U.S. Federal Govern-
ment.” Regarding these, the
committee’s report grimly adds:
“At the proper time we intend
to make full disclosure, not only
of this rug deal, but all matters
of evidence, with specific details,
as to one of the most serious
espionage cases in United States
history.”
The report states also that
Chambers “testified that he re-
ceived and transmitted to
Russian agents information con--
cerning a new self-sealing avia-
tion tank developed by the
Navy, the metallurgical formula
dealing with the Norden bomb-
sight, and the lists of foreign in-
telligence agents and naval in-
telligence reports.” The Nor-
den bomb-sight was one of
America’s most jealously re-
garded supposed war secrets!
After dealing with the com-
mittee’s examinations of the
various State Department
officials and employees who were
in a position to take out the
confidential documents, the re-
port comments that the real
dimensions of the case and its
seriousness have been “obscured
by controversy” and goes on to
give further information on the
working of the spy “apparatus”
and of some of /the security
actions that have been found
necessary:
“It now appears from the
testimony and evidence before
the committee that there were at
the time when Chambers ope-
rated as a spy parallel appara-
tuses functioning inside our
Government with equal success,
and that, they have continued.
“The evidence clearly indicates
that the Chambers apparatus
continued to function for at least
one year after he broke away,
and it has now been clearly
established that at least four of
the individuals who were acting
in the Chambers apparatus were
also acting as late as 1945 in the
parallel apparatus exposed to
this committee by Elizabeth
Bentley in 1948. We have no
evidence to indicate that the
operations of this second
apparatus do not continue to
the present time.
“The committee knows that
the desire on the part of Russian
Communists for information
from America is necessarily
stronger today than it was be-
fore or during the war. We also
know that the co-operative tech-
niques existing between the Com-
munists in Russia and the Com-
munists in America are still in-
tact, and that there are Com-
munists in [the U.S.] Govern-
ment today.
“Take the State Department,
for example. Between Jan. 1,
1947, and July 29, 1948, a total
of 134 individuals were dis-
missed ‘for security reasons’
from the Department of State
alone. The screening and' dis-
missal programme is still con-
tinuing and is still highly im-
portant to our national security.
“Between July 29, 1948, and
Dec. 16, another seventeen in-
dividuals have been removed
from the State Department rolls
‘for security reasons.’ Of the
total figure of 151 State Depart-
ment people removed from the
Federal payroll because of find-
ings of the department’s security
board, 91 cases might be classi-
fied as of acute significance and
60 cases classified as secondary
risks or bad general-security
cases.”
Thus it would seem that, in-
stead of being any mere pro-
duct of hysteria and sensation-
mongering, the Congress com-
mittee’s report has decidedly
solid ground for its final find-
ing: —■
“Here are crimes imperilling
not merely a single individual
but millions of Americans in the
event of war and, as a matter
of fact, the security of the nation
as a whole.”
Strange New World.
“U..S. News and World Re-
port” briefly looks it over:
“Russia barely three years ago
was the big U.S. buddy. At
Yalta and Potsdam she got al-
most anything she asked for,
with few questions asked. Three
years later Russia is the enemy,
with official minds closed on
doing business.
“China, then, was the great
friend, too.
“Japan was one enemy not
long ago, at war with the U.S.
But today Japan is the big U.S.
friend, the potential new ally in
the Pacific.
“Germany was the enemy, too,
Two wars were fought with Ger-
many. Now the idea is to build
Germany as the big friend in
Europe. A little while ago the
U.S. was helping the Russians
defeat the Germans. Now the
idea is to help the Germans
rebuild and take on the job of
beating the Russians, who would
have been beaten by the Ger-
mans in the first place if the
Russians hadn’t been helped by
the U.S.”
Atlantic Pact.
A pact, or at any rate an
arrangement, that America can
enter into without running into
Constitutional troubles or Con-
gressional wrath has been suc-
cessfully hammered out in
secret European-American talks
at the U.S. State Department.
It provides, according to a
Washington “Post” report, for
immediate consultation in case
of threat, without awaiting
action by the Security Council
or the United Nations. At the
same time it will not run con-
trary to the Truman pledge of
“unfaltering support for
U.N.0.,” since it will have been
“negotiated under Articles 51
and 52 of the Charter, which
authorise regional groupings and
regional action to keep the
peace.”
It safeguards the Constitu-


tional right of Congress, since it
does not provide for an auto-
matic declaration of war in case
of aggression. And it tries to
make clear that the treaty is
solely defence, is directed
against no one and is not an
attempt to “gang up” aggres-
sively against the Soviet Union.
Its final signature may, in fact,
be accompanied by a renewed
offer to join with Russia in a
guarantee against attack by a re-
vived Germany.
Middle East Oil.
The fight is now on for the
fabulous treasure of the Middle
East’s oil, which is deciding
policies possibly more than any
other single factor in Washing-
ton, London and Moscow. How
utterly fabulous the treasure
really is can be gathered from a
few comparative figures quoted
in a recent series of articles by a
“Saturday Evening Post” corres-
pondent on the spot.
The estimates of total possi-
bilities are so astronomical that
the figures for those are practi-
cally meaningless; but in his
comparison the correspondent
points out that in the U.S. each
year some 4000 wells are drilled,
four out of five of which are
dry: “In Kuwait, a sheikdom
about the size of the State of
Connecticut, a dozen wells are
drilled, none of them dry, and
12 times as much oil is found.”
U.S. wells average 11 barrels a
day by pumping: “Practically
all wells in the Middle East flow
without pumping, and they aver-
age 5000 barrels a day.”
The U.S. has nearly 500,000
producing wells and the Middle
East only about 300, “but those
300 have definitely outlined more
oil than is known to lie under all
our [U.S.] 500,000 wells.” The
U.S., the correspondent states,
has “combed its best possibilities
and is moving out to sea” ; the
Middle East “has barely
scratched its promising land sur-
face.”
The snag in it for U.S. policy-
makers, leading to some strange
shifts and somersaults already
and to evident differences be-
tween Mr. Truman and his
State Department regarding
Palestine and the Middle East
generally, is that the U.S.-
Palestine stand “has jeopardised
relations with the Arabian
world.” At present the “pipe-
line flow of oil and the construc-
tion of new pipe-lines have been
slowed or halted” and produc-
tion consequently curtailed.
There is, the correspondent in-
dicates, the additional headache
for Uncle Sam —and, in fact, for
all the Western countries, every
bit as interested in the treasure
—that “Communist obstruction
has made headway” in the oil-
holding Arab States.
“U.S. News and World Re-
port” points out that Western
Europe is planning to get 82.1
per cent, of its oil from the
Middle East by 1951, “thus per-
mitting the U.S. to save the ra-
—"Echo de Woche,” Munich (U.S. Zone).
IMPOSING SUCCESS OF THREE YEARS OF
PEACE ENDEAVORS.
serves of the Americas for any
future war.” But if war should
happen the Middle East supply
might not be available to either
side, the bulk of the oil coun-
tries there being written off as
and the supply
meing “particularly vulnerable to
sabotage”:
“All the production of Iraq
and Iran, totalling 185,000,000
barrels a year, moves in pipe-
lines. The lines from Iraq to
the Mediterranean average 575
miles in length;' Iran’s pipe-
lines average 100 miles. A few
saboteurs, armed with dyna-
mite, could wreck the pipelines
and destroy the wells. Bombing
operations by Russia or by the
West, if war comes, will almost
certainly halt oil production in
the Middle East.”
Therefore, according to this
source, “Writing off the oil as
lost to both sides when war
comes, Western strategy is based
on the use of air power to make
it difficult for Russia to stay in
the Middle East even if she does
take it.”
Secretary Acheson.
During his last few months of
office U.S. Secretary of State
Marshall had become increas-
ingly a target for spasmodic
critical sniping, mostly for his
China policy ; but very few had
ever stepped into that post with
such widespread applause. For
a long time his name was held
far more sacred than that of the
President. If anything, Ameri-
cans in general probably ex-
pected too much of him.
There are plentiful early in-
dications that similar backing is
not likely for his successor,
Dean Gooderham Acheson. In
some quarters it had even been
suggested that this appointment
would not get Senate approval,
mainly because of a strong sus-
picion of Leftist leanings, Ache-
son a few years back having
been identified with a faction in
the State Department support-
ing a “soft” policy towards
Soviet Russia.
What ground there was for
that suspicion would seem to
have been removed by Acheson
himself. Like practically all not
either Communists or Com-
munist dupes, he has since seen
through the Soviet game. In-
deed, it was he who in February,
1947, declared: “Russian
foreign policy is an aggressive
and expanding one.” With the
evidence that has meanwhile
piled up only too abundantly,
that accusation would today take
a prize as an understatement,
but, made blunter by slight mis-
quotation, it at the time brought
a pious official protest from the
Kremlin.
The fifth Secretary of State in
less than five years —which no
doubt somewhat accounts for
American foreign policy being
scarcely a model of consistency
—Acheson also has to hear
rather pointed mention of his
friendship with Alger Hiss, who
appears to be in a spot of bother
arising from the Whittaker
Chambers Soviet-spy-ring .alle-
gations.
For one such reason and
another, Acheson is expected to
have a much rougher passage
than Marshall, whose general
foreign policy he is, however, ex-
pected to continue. This latter
expectation is based on several
solid-looking grounds. One of
these is that, when a writer in
“Life,” claiming to speak on
private conversations he had had
with Truman, stated that there
would now be a big change in
American foreign policy, and
implied that this would take the
form of a “soft” line towards
Russia, the President quite
heatedly declared the article to
be absolutely untrue.
Moreover, only ill-health en-
forced Marshall’s retirement;
otherwise he and the policy-line
he pursued would have con-
tinued, with Presidential sup-
port ; and the President’s in-
auguration address on January
20 certainly did not indicate any
“softening.”
A further ground for expect-
ing no violent change, with the
Marshall line continuing in one
most important particular, is
—Washington "Post”
BRAVE NEW WORLD.
that it was actually Acheson —
not Marshall, as is generally
supposed —who made the first
public mention of what is now
known as the European Re-
covery Programme. That was
in a speech on May 8, 1947,
when Acheson —of course with
full Presidential and State-De-
partment approval—called on
Americans to support economic
reconstruction of Western
Europe with U.S. aid. Marshall
followed a month later (June 5)
with the definite offer to Europe.
Dragnet Digest.
U.S. Foreign Policy.— ln a report
that “Wall-street Journal” doesn’t
vouch for, an Embassy official breezes
in on a U.S. department. Embassy
visitor: “What is the U.S. foreign
policy today?” U.S. official: “Sorry,
I haven’t read the evening papers.”
* * * *
India’s Leader. British official
opinion, as reported by a staff corres-
pondent of N. Y. “Times” in Lon-
don, holds India’s Prime Minister
Nehru to be “the most important
single political figure in all Asia.”
He is seen as in a position to “lead
Asia to a policy of co-operation with
the European States, or, conversely,
arouse all the latent anti-Europeanism
that exists in the Far East.” In this
connection, “the Australians” (that is,
Chifley, Evatt, etc.) are looked on by
British Asian experts as merely acting
the part of tools for the astuter Asiatic
policy-makers.
.* * * *
Dutch Go to Canada. —While Can-
berra has been doing its best to in-
sult and antagonise the Dutch, Canada
has been cultivating such close Dutch
friendship that “Christian Science
Monitor” has reported as “a unique
feature” of Canadian immigration the
arrival in that Dominion of close-on
10,000 farmers and their families from
the Netherlands. The Dutch Gov-
ernment sponsored the scheme, char-
tering two ships to take the migrants
across. The 10,000 farmers, plus,
have gone there since June, 1947:
“It is expected that the number
coming to Canada in 1949 will be
larger than the total up to now.”
* * * *
£-Sterling "Comeback.” —“One of
the outstanding economic events of
1948”: thus N. Y. “Herald Tribune”
on what its report calls the “come-
back of the pound sterling as an in-
ternationally accepted currency and its
steadily improving exchange-rate in
the free markets of the world.” Quoted
reports from Europe and Asia “con-
firm that the dollar now is sharing its
formerly exclusive position as an in-
ternational currency with the pound
sterling: there are even indications
that in some parts of the world the
pound sterling is the stronger of the
two.”
* * * *
The Reluctant Bull. —To already-
given examples of the frequently-
made charge against J. Bull as the
reluctant one holding back from the
European Union, and consequently
holding it back, can be added a re-
port by N. Y. “World-Telegram’s”
foreign editor, based on recent per-
sonal observation. Describing it as
“ttie tragedy of Western Europe to-
day,” he asserts that Britain and
France are going their separate ways,
the war lesson unlearned: “At least
Britain has learned nothing from it.
France all along has been more re-
sponsive to the idea of renewed ties
than her neighbor across the
Channel.” This “lack of teamwork”
is “imperilling E.R.P., Western Union,
the Atlantic Pact and all that these
stand for. And Britain,” the writer
adds, “must bear most of the blame.”
* * * *
A Vanished Million. London
“Evening Standard” account of what
can happeh these days to close on
a million pounds when Government
hooks go in:When Samuel Courtauld,
chairman of Courtauld’s, died in De-
cember, 1947, he left £996,639. The
British Government took £666,146 in
death duty—leaving £330,493. On the
day of his death Courtauld shares
stood at 445. Bd., and in so far as
the estate was made up of Courtauld
shares, they were valued at that price
in the asessment of death duties. The
value of those shares today is down
by 6s. Bd. That means a fall of
15 per cent, in the value of the mil-
lion Mr. Courtauld left. A hundred
and fifty thousand off the £330,493
leaves £lBO,OOO. And so the million
dwindles.
* * * *
“ Cold-war” Score. Holding that
the U.S. “is in the midst of a war
with Soviet Russia which is different
from other wars only in the processes
employed,” N. Y. “Sun” writer
George E. Sokolsky takes a quick
look at the scoreboard: “Thus far
Soviet Russia has won some major
victories: Hungary, Czechoslovakia,
Korea and Manchuria. We have pro-
duced a few halting successes: Iran,
Turkey, Greece and the air-lift over
Berlin. The present battlefields are
Western Germany, France and China.
In Western Germany we are success-
ful ; in France and China we. are
currently failing; in France because
we insist on a wishy-washy policy to
avoid De Gaulle; in China because
of George Marshall’s dislike for
Chiang Kai-shek. Should Soviet
Russia succeed in either country we
shall lose the current war and will
then have to revise our policy. Either
we shall have to accept isolation of
a kind no America-Firster ever
dreamed would be possible or we
shall have to use armed forces and
bombs to work our will.”
Atom “Superblitz.”
“The greatest factor holding
Russia back,” N. Y. “Daily
Mirror” quotes Berlin com-
mander General Clay as stating,
“is American air-power. The
Russians have more respect for
our air-power than some of us at
home have.”
The respect has been de-
veloped most of all by the Berlin
air-lift; it is a respect for British
as well as U.S. air-power; and
it includes also the atomic bomb.
Reported by “Christian
Science Monitor,” American air
strategists envisage, for any war
that might break, a “superblitz”
of those bombs dropped by
only a small force of planes and
calculated to end the fight in
quick order.
One of the experts —Colonel
Frederick L. Moore, of the U.S.
Air Force —is quoted as com-
menting :
“With the use of atomic
weapons, the mass bombing raids
of World War II must be a
thing of the past. Whatever the
size of future bomber formations
carrying atomic bombs, they will
never equal the size or frequency
of strategic bombardment raids
ai we have known them. Future
formations carrying atomic
bombs might well contain about
16 aircraft. We can expect such
aircraft to be extremely fast.
Speeds up to 450-500 miles an
hour should be obtained for
short intervals, with cruising
speeds of 300-350 miles an hour.
Bomber raids will be concen-
trated over a relatively short
period of time, perhaps no more
than three months, in which
time the war will have been de-
cided one way or the other.”
Another of the quoted experts
—Colonel Dale O. Smith, also of
the U.S. Air Force —sees the
“superblitz” forcing an end in
even quicker time:
“If a war lasts as long as one
month, what possible targets will
there be left to bomb by con-
ventional TNT bombers?
“The most effective air siege
will result by concurrently
attacking every critical element
of an enemy’s economy at the
same time. This will result in a
general disintegration of all in-
dustry, which will, in turn, pre-
vent reconstruction. Oil, trans-
portation, power, weapon fac-
tories, if destroyed concurrently,
would leave a nation in such a
devastated state as to preclude
repair.
“Not to be overlooked are the
strategic results of population
destruction in urban areas. In a
nation of extreme specialisation,
where each man is likely to know
how to perform only one type of
work, population bombing may
well result in an economic dis-
location beyond all expectations.
“If all the critical industrial
systems could be destroyed at
one blow, so that recuperation
were impossible within any
foreseeable time, there seems
little question but that a nation
would cease to exist. Food and
fuel would cease flowing. In a
matter of days starvation would
set in at every urban area. An
army in the field with a life of
30 days or less, facing starvation,
realising that the loved ones at
home are likewise facing famine,
and seeing no prospect for future
recovery, is not an army to fear.”
For delivering the bombs the
Americans have their B-36, con-
cerning the role of which in the
atomic “superblitz” Major-
General Roger M. Ramey, head
of the U.S. Eighth Air Force, has
stated that this plane has brought
about “new strategic concep-
tions” in which his men are now
being specially trained. The
North-Polar area, he said, is now
considered the backdoor route
to the world’s major production
centres, and the giant bomber is
“capable of making whatever
length of flights may be required
in using this backdoor route to
formerly remote areas.”
General Ramey explained the
importance of that capacity to
make flights of any length what-
ever:—
“In these days of atomic
weapons, a ‘must’ for any nation
is advance notice of attack. One
well-planned attack with atomic
bombs could virtually ring down
the curtain on any nation’s hope
for victory—and that includes
this country [U.S.A.], with its
formerly invulnerable industrial
might.
“It must be something less
than pleasant for any possible
aggressor nation to know that an
airplane exists with enough range
to ignore direct-line approaches
on its territory over known
courses. With the B-36 the Air
Force can deliver telling blows
by following courses that avoid
established defences and ex-
pected zones of approach. Any
possible enemy must take this
new factor into its reckoning by
devising and setting up the al-
most impossible and certainly
impractical and costly entire
perimeter warning net.”
General Ramey further stated
that, with refuelling-in-the-air
techniques, the B-36 would easily
meet its designed 10,000-mile
range with a 10,0001 b. load. An-
other of the experts —one well-
known to Australia, General
George C. Kenney—has made
an even higher claim for the
B-36: that it will be capable of
reaching 12,000 miles with its
designed bomb-load. It has,
General Kenney declared, al-
ready “carried a bigger bomb-
load a greater distance than any
aircraft in existence.”


HUH!
By
JAMES
HACKSTON
<< I I UH!” Jules would say.
fl There had been a time when
J Susan used to put it all over
Jules, and he often used to
wonder how it was that he’d ever been
such a fool; and every time there was an-
other row on he’d go back all over again
how he had found her out; recall that
first day when, years back, and quite by
accident, he had discovered her duplicity.
He’d never forgotten it.
On the day in question, Susan had
transferred the quarrel to the backyard,
which she preferred for her act. The
backyard allowed her more space for her
art, and it was nice to feel Jules carrying
her all the way across the yard. Much
better than fainting inside the house, with
Jules only having to lift her up on to the
sofa. So, pressing her hand dramatically
to her brow, she gave vent to her favorite,
faraway, dying sigh and then sank down
on to the ground, where, without further
ado, she appeared to float off into the
dark impenetrable world of unconscious-
ness.
Sometimes, though, if the actress was
not satisfied that the act was going over
well enough, she would emit her suc-
cessful, heartbreaking moan, and mumble
unintelligibly, as if saying a last farewell
to someone she had once dearly loved.
AH! All this in the dim past, though ;
in the days when Susan’s star act had
been most profitable to her. Yes, most
profitable up to that day when Jules had
become a wake-up to her; after which
Susan had to fall back on such poor, in-
artistic and second-rate stuff as throwing
the bucket down the yard, pitching the
kerosene-tin out the kitchen door, aiming
the broom at her inoffensive fowls and
other such small, profitless, non-
productive and unimaginative acts.
Jules had made the discovery this way:
Susan, after “swooning,” had flopped
down successfully (without unduly bruis-
ing herself, or putting a wrist or an ankle
out), and Jules had rushed up to her as
he had done on other occasions, and,
while upbraiding himself for again being
a heartless, selfish and cruel brute,
monster, or whatever else he thought he’d
been, now that his wife was lying an inert
bundle on the ground, lifted her up ever
so gently and preciously, and was carry-
ing her (twelve stone four and a half
pounds) across the yard and looking
straight ahead of him, as men in trouble
do, when suddenly, and, for no reason at
all, he looked down at Slinks, who was
padding along with the sad procession
as he usually did on such dismal
occasions.
Now, looking down at Slinks, Jules
noticed a strange thing. Why was Slinks
wagging or waving his big, bushy tail like
a hurricane-lamp in a gale?
Jules was holding Susan round the waist
as he carried her, and she was stretched
lengthwise, her back to him, and her head
hanging down towards the ground. Funny
thing, he had never paid any attention to
Slinks before when, on previous
occasions, Slinks had accompanied. them
on their miserable pilgrimage to the sofa.
He had always been too upset to pay
any attention to his dog, but, this day, he
had looked down at Slinks. And he was
looking hard at Slinks now; looking at
him still wagging his tail and, as he
looked, he saw, coming out from Susan’s
heavy, tiring, limp form, a hand: the
hand wearing a ring he had once bought
for Susan, and the hand lightly, playfully
pulling and then fondly stroking the silky
and satiny ear that belonged to Slinks.
As Jules watched and he had
slackened his pace considerably to suit
his purpose—he saw that the hand was
not doing this in any uncertain manner,
either ; that it was stroking and patting
the ear with a sureness of touch and a
purpose so sound and sensible, and with
not the slightest suggestion whatsoever
that the owner of the hand was not in
full possession of all her mental powers.
“Huh!” Jules said secretly.
JULES’S first ambition was to drop
Susan flat on her fgce on the ground
and then go for a long walk to Wagga
Wagga, or Cape York, or follow the
Murray to the sea, and not accept a lift
on the way, for, sometimes, there is a
moment in a man’s life when movement
is the only cure. In fact, as Jules con-
tinued on his journey across the yard, and
with the hand still secretly, lovingly and
soothingly caressing Slinks’s glossy ear,
Jules thought that, instead of walking to
Wagga Wagga, or Cape York, or follow-
ing the Murray to the sea, he might try
a desert island somewhere where foot of
woman had never marked the eternal
desolation of its unbroken sands.
Now it had always been Jules’s custom,
on reaching the room, to lay Susan down
on her back on the sofa, very gently,
too ; but things were different now. Al-
though he had not dropped her on her
face on the hard clay of the yard, still,
he could most certainly put her down flat
on her face on the sofa. And so the un-
conscious body was put down on to the
sofa, face first, after which, instead of
the usual softness, and loving concern, the
unconscious body was allowed to stay
there, unattended, while Jules retired
sedately to the back paddock, where he
ejaculated the different kind of “huh” to
the “huhs” he had ejaculated in the past.
Yes, it was a different “huh” that day
all right, as he walked about his paddock
instead of walking to Wagga Wagga, or
Cape York, or following the Murray to
the sea, or trying a desert island some-
where where foot of woman had never
marked the eternal desolation of its un-
broken sands; Susan up in the house
waiting for him to return with the dish of
cold water and the towel; no bathing
for her wrists; no gentle stroking of her
hair; no soft words; nothing; just the
actress lying there with the awakening
gradually coming to her that at last she
had failed, her act over for all time;
lying there with nothing happening ; half-
raising herself, then suddenly flopping
back when she thought she heard him
coming ; then sitting up again when he
did not return ; next getting right off the
sofa ; and then, the fowls making a noise,
thinking that it might be Jules, and slither-
ing back to the sofa and going off again;
then finally coming to the conclusion that
her turn had missed horribly, somehow,
and then flinging the bucket (the first
instalment of that which was to take the
place of her act) out the kitchen door.
AND so, whenever there was a row on,
Jules would grunt the different kind
of “huh” ; a “huh” he would not use for
other occasions. For instance, it was not
the “huh” he used when somebody told
him how many bags of spuds they’d got
off their acre, or as questioning as when
his white sow, Lily-of-the-Valley, returned
him a litter fewer in number than he had
ambitiously expected; or angrily vehe-
ment and threatening as when he dis-
covered someone had helped himself
to his timber in his back paddock.
There are many ways of saying “huh.”
It can be indignant, angry, defiant, sur-
prised, startled; it can threaten action ;
be hard, soft, generous or mean; be
taken as a warning or denote victory or
defeat. It belonged to none of these;
but was that refined and contemplative
specimen which is generally used by
placid and temporarily disillusioned hus-
bands. It has a character all its own: a
what - a - mug - I’ve - been - all-these-years
meaning or message. It conveys deli-
cately the suggestion or impression that
it is not malignant or vindictive in tone
or feeling ; neither threatening nor mur-
derous ; expresses neither victory nor de-
feat —the “huh” of the wise man who,
although married, strives desperately to
still remain a gentleman.
It is the refined “huh” that goes with
deep understanding and accepts things
philosophically, wisely and yet sadly, and
also resignedly, and is uttered in sym-
pathy, too ; not only for personal reasons
but for and on behalf of all males, with
the knowledge that all women at one
time or another and with devastating
regularity—angels in Heaven included—
are just plain (adjective) Tartars.
While a row was on Jules, being a
husband of the quiet sort, did no more
than give vent to this particular “huh”
to express his disappointment in Susan
temporarily; for he was not the sort of
fellow to say that his Susan was a (ad-
jective) Tartar all the time. But, all the
same, every time they had a tqw Jules
felt that Susan was certainly a (adjective)
Tartar for the time being, and so, being
in such a mood, he would think back to
and remember things and events that had
not been exactly in Susan’s favor, and
such memories would kindle kindred
memories of other women who had been
listed in the same category in which
Susan was now listed ; and so what could
be more comforting to himself as a fel-
low-sufferer than that he should think
most sympathetically of Ted Onions and
of what had befallen him.
‘< TT UH! Poor Ted Onions.”
li With this birds-of-a-feather feel-
ing churning within him, Jules would
think about Ted Onions and his wife,
and then the memory of the Onions
affair would stir up memories of what
had happened between Ben Jagger and
his avaricious, lying, deceitful, wilful,
thieving, double-crossing, two-faced,
hook-nosed (adjective) Tartar of a wife.
So, finding some sweet consolation and
help in the fact that he was not the only
husband in the district who had suffered,
he’d “huh” not only for himself but
“huh” good-naturedly, generously and
unselfishly for Ted Onions and Ben
Jagger, too, as he’d stroll about his place ;
lean contemplatively and resignedly
against a stump; leave the stump and
choose another stump ; lean against it;
leave it and lean on the top rail of the
fence ; walk away from the fence ; lean
against a tree and cross his arms; un-
cross his arms and cross his legs instead ;
uncross his legs and cross his arms again ;
undo them and rub his nose ; scratch the
palm of his left hand and then shove both
hands deep down into his pockets ; walk
away slowly and kick tufts of grass ;
walk without kicking tufts of grass and
move sticks and leaves aside with the toe
of his right boot.
Walk up to his cow Polly and stroke
her rump most affectionately; walk over
to his horse and pat “good old Duke”
boisterously with flat-handed whacks and
then lift up his left foreleg and look at
the shoe; lift up his right foreleg and
look at that shoe ; lift up both hind legs
and look at both shoes; pick burrs out
of his mane and tail; look at the old scar
on his shoulder again and then walk
round and round him and look quizzi-
cally at him from every angle.
Walk round the old gum, too, and look
up to where the big limb had been blown
off in the big storm and give the hard old
trunk a reassuring and friendly slap;
then mooch off and, for some private
reason, look sternly at the sky;
then smile and look longingly in the
direction of the Murray and nod, lower
the head thoughtfully, raise it again
triumphantly and then stand perfectly
still on a rise and look into the vasty
distance and, of course, right over his
own property and not even see his own
house and shed; not even see his own
Susan as she’d cross his own yard and
not even hear the cackling of Susan’s
fowls or hear her own rooster crowing
and, particularly, not even hear the kero-
sene-tin or the bucket go flying down the
yard.
JULES would make for his furthest
paddock and there feel more sympa-
thetic than ever towards Ted Onions and
Ben Jagger as, walking round his fence,
he’d go back in his mind to the night
when he saw Ted Onions sitting up in his
old j inker with his belongings all stacked
round him and come to say good-bye.
“My sweetheart’s having me arrested for
arrears of alimony, Jules,” and when he’d
asked Ted how much he was in arrears
Ted had thrown his chest out as if he had
owned Carbine, written a great poem,
painted a great picture or caught the big
fox everybody had been after for two
years, and said proudly that he’d got the
amount up to seven hundred and thirty-
five pounds, three shillings ; that he was
making for Cape York, travelling by night
and lying low in the day ; that the police
would never get him, blacktrackers,
bloodhounds and all; that he hoped to
get his alimony arrears up to a “coupla
thousand” before he died —wherever that
might be. Then, after shaking hands,
he’d driven off in the dark and never been
seen since.
“Huh!”
Jules wpuld next recall what Ted had
told him about the time when he’d once
gone into the town to see his “sweet-
heart” about patching things up and
found her dressed in a flaming-scarlet
dress cut down low at the top and show-
ing a hell of a lot of herself and reclin-
ing on a red box couch. Then, while he
was sizing her up, a tall slab of a fellow
with shiny hair called and brought her
some rare bulbs for her garden. Ted
said she’d never even grown a geranium
in all her born days.
“Rare bulbs! ”
IT was Ted mentioning Cape York that
* had first put the idea into Jules’s head
about going to Cape York every time he
had a dust-up with Susan ; and Ted’s am-
bition to increase his alimony arrears had
also set Jules dreaming that, if Susan
ever sued him for alimony, he’d owe her
a “coupla thousand,” too. Yes, by
cripes he would! Then he’d work out so
many weeks at so much per week and,
being of an imaginative turn of mind,
would almost rub his hands with glee as
he’d draw level with Ted’s record arrears.
And he would escape from the police,
too ; blacktrackers, too ; bloodhounds,
too; and on reaching Cape York there
would be the pretty picture in his mind’s
eye of the Alimony Arrearage Brother-
hood meeting there, far, far, far away
from all women and both champions
shaking hands cordially.
It was fine, during these ambitious
dreams and fancies, the way in which
Jules, time and time again eluded the
police, the many close shaves he had from
being captured and the masterly way in
which he had faked his tracks and made
the blacktrackers ( all the blacktrackers)
look like a lot of goats and the blood-
hounds ( all the bloodhounds) look like
mongrels.
“Blacktrackers and bloodhounds!”
Now and again Jules would, to break
the monotony of things, change over
from owing Susan thousands for alimony,
outwitting the police, leading black-
trackers on false trails, putting blood-
hounds off the scent and escaping to Cape
York, and just disappear down the
Murray instead, where, in a hidden and
restful bend of the river, he would build
himself a snug hut, acquire a boat and
live that ideal existence with Mother
Murray which only her sons know the
fullness of and which is never forgotten.
A dream that, at some time or other, fills
the heart of every true Australian hus-
band ; anyway, those who have been on
the Murray.
Walking round the dry old fence of his
paddock, Jules would pull up one of the
giant cods that were always waiting most
obligingly, and eagerly, to hook them-
selves and, in no time, have the thick,
delectable cod cutlets sizzling and popping
in the pan.
At this point, Jules might look with
a guilty look in the direction of his
house, as if he had been thinking that,
perhaps, it wouldn’t be so bad after all if
Susan and he did part.
Jules was very, very, very fond of fish.
By this time, having walked half-
round the furthest paddock, and with
half a mile of fence-posts still left to
pat, he’d now come to the last item on
the programme—Ben Jagger and his
double-dealing, deceitful, lying, two-
faced, thieving, robbing, avaricious,
wilful, devil’s daughter of a hook-
nosed, bandylegged, top-heavy, so-and-so,
so-and-so Tartar of a wife.
J N his spare time Ben Jagger had
1 cleared a block of land opposite his
place and planted strawberries and had
no sooner begun to do well with them
when the strawberries began to mysteri-
ously disappear. At first he blamed the
birds; then (in desperation) even sus-
pected kangaroos, wallabies, wombats,
hares, rabbits, possums, kangaroo-rats,
the Ogilvie kids in particular and every-
body in general; then (in absolute des-
peration) suspected grubs, worms, bush
mice, beetles, goannas, snakes and lizards
—anything, everything. And he wrote
to the Agricultural Department.
There’d be just enough strawberries
ripening to be picked when off they’d go.
Ben had gone to all kinds of trouble to
discover the pest, but without success;
and he’d roar (a blasting accident at the
quarry where he worked had made him
stone-deaf) in his wife’s ear telling her
he couldn’t make it out at all, and Mrs.
Jagger would strip off one of the pieces
of paper (system) that hung by the mantel-
piece and which she kept specially ffi
the purpose (not for making a list for Ith
store) and write, with the pencil wriicb
she also kept specially for this purpose,
“Never mind ; you’ll find out yet. P° n 1
o Continued at foot of next pag : )


worry, dear! ” Ben would then grunt
the usual grunt which he never had the
satisfaction of hearing but could only feel.
Ben being so deaf, she used to corres-
pond with him in this manner instead of
trying to talk to him, and when she’d be
going to Mrs. Chicken’s to play her
weekly game of cards she’d write some-
thing like “Going to cards again, dear!
Won’t be too late!” or “Going to Mrs.
Chicken’s ; might be a bit late, dear! ”
“Dear! ”
And next morning she’d rip off an-
other, piece of paper and write “Lost
another shilling, dear,” or “Won nine-
pence, dear,” and sometimes add “Mrs.
Chicken sent her love to you,”
“Mrs. Chicken sent her love!”
ONE night, though, when she’d gone
to cards and Ben had gone to bed
he, instead of having another nightmare
about his strawberries, had a stomach
ache instead, and, thinking that a bit of
fresh air might make him feel better,
got up and went outside and, looking over
towards his strawberry-patch, saw, in the
dim light, to his consternation, surprise,
anger, and also sudden and violent grati-
fication, yes, a kangaroo ; yes, well, well,
well, a kangaroo stooped over his straw-
berries !
Too excited to have thought of play-
ing cunning and sneaking on the kan-
garoo, Ben slithered inside, grabbed his
gun and, overeager to get the kangaroo
before it could possibly get away, hastily,
all of a flutter, and without waiting to
get within proper range, *let fly almost
simultaneously with both barrels.
Then, as Ben ran towards his kangaroo,
it held both hands to its bottom and
screamed for help.
“Game of cards!”
“Huh!”
And now Jules would come to the
more cheerful side of what had happened,
and, not singling out any one post more
than another, would smile appreciatively
at all posts as he’d recall what Lightning
Todd had told him; Lightning Todd,
the district’s most amorous doctor.
He’d remember Lightning telling him
that he’d removed all the pellets from
Mrs. Jagger’s behind ; six pellets, left side,
eleven in the right, and how Lightning
had winked and told him that he would
have enjoyed performing the operation
much more had it been young Myrtle
Tregowthan who was stealing the straw-
berries.
Jules would now think of beauty for
a while, then, thinking of Lightning’s
wicked wink, maybe give one of the
wicked posts a wink.
BY this time, Jules would be drawing
near to his home, and, on reaching
it, might be heard saying “Six pellets, left
cheek, eleven in the right,” and saying
it with a relish which suggested that Jules
saw in the undignified downfall of Mrs.
Jagger the undoing of all such wicked
wives and as if he were thinking—well,
it’s hard to know sometimes just exactly
what a man is thinking. > '
“Huhr
SIX HUNDRED
and fifty five
by
BRIAN
JAMES
ti P IX-hundred-and-fifty-three!” an-
\ nounced Bugler Bull, happy pride
L ) and mournful pleasure contend-
ing within him.
“Lenny, you are a regular marvel, a
real identity,” said Cooney.
“Six-hundred-and-fifty-three! ” After
an impressive pause Bugler Bull added,
“In all, that is.”
“That’s right: in all, Lenny. Won-
derful, I say.”
“But thirty-two of them was policemen.
Six-hundred-and-twenty-one, and thirty-
two policemen. Six-hundred-and-fifty-
three ! In alL’
Bugler Bull was at his usual table in the
corner of Cooney’s wine-bar, one of those
little streaked-marble tables, round-
topped, and with a twisted-up iron
arrangement to support it. Nice little
table to lean on, very firm, but that iron-
stand was the very devil for one’s legs.
Cooney’s wine-shop stood between the
post-office on the one side and the flqrist
and undertaker’s on the other ; with the
big ramshackle shed opposite which was
the wood-coal-and-produce-merchant’s,
where the enormous black cat was always
asleep on a bag of chaff. A mere symbol
now of terror to rats and mice, for he was
fifteen years if a day, and was spending
the evening of a useful life dreaming of
long-past rats and mice.
People often said “It’s a shame to have
that place [which was Cooney’s, of course]
next door” (which referred to the under-
taking establishment).
But Cooney didn’t worry; they could
shift the florist’s if they liked, he was
quite satisfied where he was. In any case,
those that complained were the strict and
the good and the sour —the water-drinkers
and such-like. Cooney’s Saloon was
really a credit to any suburb, never very
noisy, never very crowded, and never a
woman seen in it, not even in a sly little
dark parlor, as often happens elsewhere.
No one ever got drunk there, achieving
only a laudable addition to the dignity of
Man—as shown by a fine exaggerated
uprightness in walking and a precision in
high-stepping. And a real gladness in the
heart of them all. It was Cooney all over
to run his place so, and let them say
what they liked.
Bugler Bull sipped at his glass of port.
He always sipped and sipped till the glass
was empty at last. None of your un-
seemly gulping, which indicates an entire
disrespect for wine, and a sense of guilt in
drinking it. Then, when the glass was
very empty, for Bugler Bull sipped a long
time after it was first empty, he would
take the glass in one hand and his knobby
stick in the other, and be-
gin the intricate operation
of disentangling his legs
from the iron-stand of the
table.
And Cooney, always
watchful, would say “Don’t
move, Lenny!” and come
from behind the bar with a
bottle. “Port again,
Lenny?”
And Bugler Bull would
seem to go through a dim
mental struggle and a
pleasant perplexity, and
then make up his mind:
“Well, I think I will.” But
it was always port just the
same.
Bugler Bull was a thin wisp of a man.
very dried-up and leathery, and he got
along with a thick stick. His legs weren’t
true mates any more, if they ever had
been, which made his walk something be-
tween a shuffle and a hobble. But direct
enough, too, for he always seemed to be
going somewhere with a purpose. His
hair and moustache were mousey-
colored ; and, in all, he might have been
anything between fifty and eighty. There
was no telling. But his brown eyes were
bright in a startling sort of contrast to
the rest of his antiquity.
“Knocked about pretty badly,” Cooney
would confide to the stranger, and nod
his head ever so slightly to indicate
Bugler Bull, and then a much bigger nod
in the other direction, which meant the
Great War. Cooney wasn’t a man of
many words, but of very expressive
gesture, and he had that trick of making
plain without saying overmuch. On these
occasions Bugler Bull always knew he was
being discussed, and it pleased him
greatly.
Not that he ever boasted of his doings
and exploits. He didn’t. In fact, he didn’t
ever talk of the Great War, nor ever speak
of old companions by name. They were
numbers pow, adding up as the years
went along their way, to that grim total:
“Six-hundred-and-fifty-three! In all! And
thirty-two of them policemen! ”
MEN went in and out of Cooney’s
Saloon —when it was open. For
enforced limitations of supply often
meant that Cooney could open only for
a few hours in the afternoon. Some days
he didn’t open at all.
But Cooney was a thoughtful man, and
always chalked up plainly on his door,
each morning the time of opening for
the day. Bugler Bull always knew just
when —perhaps someone was good
enough to let him know, and for a half-
hour before the stated time he would be
waiting opposite near the wood-and-coal
store, sitting on the bus-stop seat.
So when Cooney’s door opened, Bugler
Bull was among the first two or three to
enter. And Cooney always greeted him,
“Hullo, Lenny! You here? And how
are things today?”
“The same, Pat. Not a thing different.
Six-hundred-artd-fifty-three! In all! ”
They were nearly all oldish men who
went into Cooney’s. Occasionally a
young chap, but not often. Cooney didn t
seem to like young fellows very much. A
quiet, decent lot they were, friendly as
men and dogs can be in the right atmos-
phere. The unwanted type didn’t see
much for their money at Cooney’s. For
all his easy ways, Cooney was no man to
trifle with. Once a nasty, rough-and-
ready sort of customer came in, half-
tight already and noisy, and full of much
determination to dominate the place. He
leered at Bugler Bull, and deemed him a
comic figure no doubt. He turned to
Cooney and said “I’ll have a dry sherry!”
“Which you won’t,” said Cooney very
quietly.
And the big hulk started to bluster, and
Cooney said nothing—just fixed him with
his eye. That eye could be hard, and as
cold as a fish’s when Cooney liked. The
big fellow got no sherry, and went out
muttering ; and then everyone talked a
lot in the cheerfulness of relief. But
Cooney said nothing at all
about it.
Cooney wasn’t senti-
mental, but it was plain, too,
that he had some deep feel-
ings about Bugler Bull. He
felt there was something
grievously missing if
“Lenny” wasn’t in his right
place in the corner. Some-
thing might have happened
him, though that was un-
likely, too, for Bugler Bull
was of that hard wreckage
to which nothing further
can ever happen. More
likely maybe he was at
another funeral; and the
thought gave Cooney relief.
And a half-hour late, or even an hour,
perhaps, sure enough Bugler Bull would
shuffle and hobble into his place, a trifle
tired, a little excited, and the rest of him
filled with a sad sort of satisfaction.
“We thought you’d got lost, Lenny.”
“No, no, Pat; not quite. Not lost.”
“What are you having, Lenny?”
“I don’t know but what I’ll have port,
Pat.”
“And how are things, Lenny?”
Lenny took a few sips. “A policeman,
Pat. A policeman. That makes thirty-
three. And six-hundred-and-fifty-four.
In all.”
“In all, Lenny.”
The others in the bar took the proper
interest and shared as far as they could
in Bugler Bull’s pride of achievement.
| F anyone was present, a stranger, who
1 didn’t know, then Cooney explained to
him: “A funeral, you know. Bugler
Bill here plays the ‘Last Post’ for all the
returned men.”
Then Cooney detected himself in over-
statement, which he hated in anyone, and
corrected himself: “Well, for a lot of
them, anyway. They like to have Bugler
Bull sound the ‘Last Post’ over them.”
Cooney made a gesture or two to show
very clearly that “old Lenny there” was
a wonderful bugler. “Such feeling and
all that.” And that he really helped to
make the funeral worth while.
Cooney undoubtedly was really proud
of Bugler Bull. And Bugler Bull, more
happily mournful than ever, sipped away
at his port.
Someone one day asked “Why the ‘Last
Post’ over the police-
men, Bugler?”
Bugler turned this
over - in his mind, and
rolled a little port
round with his
tongue. “Oh, yes,
Returned men, too.
But they was police-
men as well.”
It mightn’t have
seemed very clear,
but it explained a lot.
The Second World
War did not affect
Bugler Bull. He
seemed to ignore its existence. Clearly it
meant very little to him. The Germans
riding out their wave of victory or the
Japs advancing or retreating, he didn’t
seem to visualise. Not even in a partial
or a vague way. His life had become just
port-wine and numbers.
u DUGLER’S not here, yet?” It was
Sid Hawker. Old Sid who lived
with a cranky sister and her two cranky
daughters.
Cooney’s was the only bright spot in
the drab day for Sid. “He’s a bit late,
isn’t he?” Sid was really a bit late him-
self, there having been a continuation of
the frequent discussions about his “pen-
sion money.”
“Oh, he’ll be along soon,” said
Cooney with uneasy confidence.
“It must be” — said someone else.
“Very likely,” said Cooney. “But I
haven’t heard at all.”
The few hours of “opening” drew near
their clpse. A shrill-voiced, leggy paper-
boy rushed in and ouf. “Yer piper, Mr.
Cooney.”
Between the leisurely drinks Cooney
as always glanced through the paper.
Anything of interest he read out in head-
lines: “Strike Wave Paralyses State”...
“Premier’s Firm Stand”... “City Shoot-
ing Thought Sequel to Underworld
Feud”... “Strike Wave Extends,” and so
forth. It was soothing to have the big
things and the bad things mixed with the
wine. Someone lit a cigarette. “What : s
new tonight, Pat?”
Cooney didn’t answer. “Gawd!” he
exclaimed at last. “This is old Lenny!”
His hand shook as he smoothed down
the paper: “An old man, believed to be
Leonard Bull, was struck by a car in
Parramatta-road early this afternoon...
Returned - soldiers’ badge.. .Ambu-
lance.. .Lewisham Hospital.. .Death in-
stantaneous” ...
“Fancy old Bugler being skittled by a
car!” Tom McGrath was incredulous,
as though Fate was trying to be funny.
“But are you sure, Pat, it is old
Bugler?”
Now that it had come to this, no one
really knew much about Bugler Bull —
where and how he lived ; only a vague
understanding that he had some sort of
a military pension, and a still vaguer
understanding that he had a “little nest-
egg.” Anyway, he was never short of
drinking silver.
In some way it got to be known that it
was “old Bugler, all right.”
NEXT day there was chalked on
Cooney’s door “Closed today.”
“And it’s the least I can do ; and a
trifle foolish at that, maybe.”
“You’re right, Pat.
It is foolish.”
“Well, we’ll open
after, perhaps,” said
Cooney. He knew
that the little corner
table would be a trial
and haunt him a bit.
There was something
womanish in Cooney
without doubt.
“I wonder, now.
Pat, who’ll be play-
ing the ‘Last Post’
for old Lenny?”
That was Tom Me-
Graih, who was a great thought-reader.
“I was thinking the same, Tom. Some-
one, of course,- and I hope he does it
well.”
Cooney and a few others of the more
regular and habitual went along to the
funeral. Quite a fine funeral, too, con-
sidering, as Tom McGrath remarked.
And there was a very good bugler there,
too, though not so good as old Bugler
Bull.
There was still time after it; and
Cooney opened his door. It would have
been all wrong not to open it. If for no
other reason than lack of respect for old
Lenny.
Cooney filled all the glasses—with
port. And then one for himself, which
was unusual for him. There was no
thought of anyone paying for the drink.
Sid Hawker said “Six-hundred-and-
fifty-five! ”
“In all,” said Cooney.
“In all,” said someone else as the
glasses were lifted.


fj
/A
Q 5?
cO*-
FIRM
ftVN’
s-o*
IW»
A British-made adhesive plaster that is
comfortable, elastic and conveniently
wound on a metal spool. That’s Elasto-
plast, the truly modern dressing! Flesh-
coloured and inconspicuous, it stays
neat and clean. Firm, flexible Elastoplast
replaces bulky bandages. 1" x 1 yd.
long, it stretches to l|/2 yds.
FROM ALL CHEMISTS
rfSWJVI f\LL. U/iL/YUJ/J
Elastoplast
E-L-A-S-T-l-C ADHESIVE PLASTER
First Aid Dressings, in RED tins, also available. EI/I2S
MADE IN ENGLAND By T. J. SMITH & NEPHEW LTD., HULL
established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSOM 4
OSUIXTVAK
rrwm
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO, PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I ! PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL.” BRISBANE
FINEST INTERIOR
WATER PAINT
Maisone is a noteworthy water paint,
oil-bound for durability.
Maisone colours have been chosen with
the greatest care so that they will
give the utmost in distinction and at
the same time blend it with
practically any type of
furnishing scheme.
1 gallon makes 1j gallons of paint
preharmonised c
SUNDRY SHOWS
Shakspeare-on-Yarra.
“Stratford-on-Avon is cleaner,
better paved and perhaps more
populous than it was in Shak-
speare’s time. Several streets of
mean, red-brick houses have
been built during the last half-
century. Hotels, tea-rooms, re-
freshment-rooms and the shops
where the tripper may buy
things to remind him that he has
been where greatness lived give
the place an air at once pros-
perous and parasitic. The town
contains a few comely old build-
ings. The Shakspeare house, a
detached double dwelling, once
the home of the poet’s father,
stands on the north side of
Henley-street. A room on the
first floor, at the western end, is
shown to visitors as the room in
which the poet was born. There
is not the slightest evidence to
show that he was born there.
One scanty scrap of fact exists
to suggest that he was bom at
the eastern end. The two dwel-
lings have now been converted
into one, which serves as a
museum.”
There was no theatre in Eng-
land set apart for the right pro-
duction of Shakspeare when
Masefield wrote that. There is
now, and although architec-
turally a poor thing—
to the old Globe where Shak-
speare wrote, produced and
played in his own plays—it has
revived interest in the plays, and
people from all over the world
flock there for the annual festi-
val, which gave its 89th season
last year. It has begun to send
out bands of actors, and one of
them, the Stratford-on-Avon
Players, is now busily rehears-
ing for its opening at Mel-
bourne Princess on Friday.
There is a family character
about the organisation, and it
has Shakspeare in its blood.
Anew McMaster, its leading
actor, played lago to Oscar
Asche’s Othello 20 years ago in
Melbourne, has taken the Bard
to Dublin, Cairo and Malta and
has played the Moor more than
1000 times.
Mr. McMaster’s wife, an
amazing little woman, all bustle,
was once an actress and played
Peter Pan for seven years. Now
she is the wardrobe-mistress and
runs the business end of the
organisation, designs and sews
the costumes—36 yards of bro-
cade in one of Othello’s—and
sometimes plays bit x parts.
Christopher McMaster, her son,
aged 18, is a clever, sandy-
headed little fellow, is famous
for knowing everybody’s part,
including his own; he under-
studies, does anything he’s told
and is working up just like an
Elizabethan apprentice.
Colm O’Doherty is assistant
wardrobe-master, plays bit parts,
too, and sees to the supers’
dressing. The manager is Wal-
ter Humphries, who managed
last year’s visit of the Old Vic.
McMaster was the first
Hamlet who ever played at
Stratford, and all the others
come fresh from performances
at the new, aggressively-modern
theatre built on the banks of
the playwright’s river. Leading
lady, Daphne Slater, niece of
Edwin Styles, was a sort of in-
fant prodigy of drama, and was
the youngest Juliet ever to play
at Stratford. John Harrison, her
husband, who will Romeo to her
Juliet, has played in two Strat-
ford seasons, and Paul Stephen-
son, who plays lago, has ap-
peared at Stratford with the Old
Vic. Eric Maxon is the senior
member, and has played in 20
consecutive Stratford seasons.
He was in Australia with H. B.
Irving in 1910 and with Guy
Bates Post in 1926, and can
claim Robert Louis Stevenson as
having been his uncle.
Anew McMaster’s idea is that
Shakspeare should be, not for
the intelligentsia, but for the
masses, and so it should. He
makes his plays as exciting and
colorful and beautifully cos-
tumed as actors and designers
can make them.
"Turandot."
The walls of the Great Violet
City, Pekin, in legendary times,
materialised with almost
legendary splendor and grace at
Sydney Tivoli for the first act
of “Turandot,” in which an
exotic crowd of citizens assemble
in the market-place to hear bari-
tone Carlo Badioli pronounce
the terms of the beautiful and
cruel Princess Turandot’s matri-
monial intentions —which in-
clude such traditional ordeals as
the solving of riddles with a
penalty of decapitation for un-
successful applicants.
“Turandot” is the last and
perhaps the greatest of Puccini’s
operas. The final duet and scene
were completed after his death,
with rare skill, by Franco
Alfano, and in the opera as a
whole, besides the remarkable
combination of the revolutionary
theories of Schonberg with cur-
rent musical practice, there is
evidence of a larger musical
range and, most of all, of
Puccini’s sense of the theatre —
his ability to mass orchestral
music with the human voice, and
link both with action ; his un-
rivalled ability to translate a
theatrical situation into music
with a few vivid touches.
Theatrically Puccini was un-
excelled, even by Verdi. And
theatrically he should have been
pleased with the performance at
the Tivoli, whatever other faults
he may have found in details of
the singing of Germana di
Giulio as Princess Turandot, or
in tenor Aldo Ferracuti as Calaf,
son of the dethroned Tatar King,
who, after discovering his father
and the slave-girl Liu in the
throng in the market-place, pours
out his condemnation o f
Turandot’s cruelty, only to be
conquered by her beauty when
she appears briefly on a balcony ;
after which he, too, essays the
perilous quiz, pouring out his
changed«feelings in a jet of pure
lyric melody in “O Divina Bel-
lezza” and, at the climax of the
quick rush of music and action,
striking the brazen gong the
echoes of which are picked up in
a blaze of barbaric challenge by
the orchestra.
A ghostly and hypothetical
Puccini, sweltering in the Tivoli
on the breathlessly hot first night
of “Turandot”’ might well have
criticised an occasional lack of
fire in Ferracuti; and inability,
at times, in both Di Giulio and
the tenor to impose the domin-
ance of their voices on the entire
gorgeous composition of color
and music. But he could find
little lacking in Leo Piccioli,
Adelio Zagonara and Carlo
Badioli as the almost Gilbertian
functionaries Ping, Pang and
Pong. Ping, Pang and Pong are
marvellous operatic creations —•
almost Falstaffian —giving light-
ness and comedy to the back-
ground of barbaric splendor and
the theme of passion and cruelty.
And Picciofi, Zagonara and
Badioli, besides singing with
controlled zest, mimed with
imagination.
Nor could Puccini justly com-
plain of Antonio Cassinelli as
Timur, the powerless king. For
the early part of the opera Cas-
sinelli portrayed enfeebled and
dependent age, clinging to the
slave-girl Liu and singing, when
the occasion demanded it, with
his bass under a dramatic re-
straint. But after the death of
Liu he reared like a lion, and his
bass pealed and thundered till
the jade-and-gold-decked court
seemed to shiver before an
ancient war trumpet. It was one
of the finest pieces of the night.
Rina Malatrasi was the slave-
girl Liu. Small and pretty, vital
and graceful, throbbing with
hopeless passion for Calaf, de-
fying Turandot, full of protec-
tive tenderness for the old king,
demure or shrinking or darkly
flashing, by theatrical standards
alone hers was an excellent per-
formance. Her voice has the
quality necessary to uncover
Puccini’s salient characteristic —
a love of the tender and the in-
timate and a lyrical freshness
which is never far from his
music, even in so hard-hearted a
composition as “Turandot” —
and her singing of “Signore
Ascolta” and “Tanto Amore
Segreto” had an unfaltering
sweetness and dramatic poig-
n£nce.
Art and a Trowel.
It is impossible entirely to dis-
approve of the Gwen Eichler
paintings and drawings on view
at the Macquarie Galleries,
Sydney. She draws very nicely ;
a painting of a woman’s head
has form and character, although
it is a little photographic and a
little cold ; and in her landscapes
there is evidence of genuine feel-
ing for nature combined with
sound basic construction.
Technically speaking this
basic construction is beyond
praise. Trees, hills, fields, gullies
are all designed to fit into ’ one
grand pattern, at once realistic
and artistically acceptable. But
the landscapes themselves are
somewhat heavy and forbid-
ding ; chalky or greasy, as
though the artist, h a v*i n g
recorded the original fine and
clear conception in outline, as
it were, had grown tired and
finished the job with a trowel.
It is possible and likely
—that the artist has not the
technical equipment • to clothe
her compositions in the rich
colors and clearly depicted forms
the subject demands. It is even
more likely that she has been
unduly influenced by an artistic
fashion which exalts the disin-
genuous, the tepid and the de-
liberately childish at the expense
of the grander scale of landscape-
painting and the careful appren-
ticeship of eye and hand neces-
sary for its accomplishment. In
this case the influence is particu-
larly regrettable. The artist’s
talents appear to lean towards a
patient synthesis within a bold
outline. Given technique and an
undimmed vision these talents
might lead to the creation of the
immense and the majestic.
Dr. Brent's Household.
For his first independent pro-
duction at the Kelvin Hall since
his discharge from the R.A.A.F.,
Melbourne producer Terence
Crisp selected “Dr. Brent’s
Household.” It is by Edward
Percy, author of “Ladies in Re-
tirement,” and is a much more
serious piece of writing. Dr.
Brent has a wife and two chil-
dren and also a mistress, or po-
tential mistress, all living in the
same house together.
The difficulties of the tri-
angular relationship produce a
neurosis in the wife, who is sent
to an asylum as a hopeless schi-
zophrenic. After six years the
doctor is contemplating divorc-
ing his wife and marrying his
mistress when the doctors drop a
bombshell. They send the wife
back certified as cured to the
very environment which pro-
duced her neurosis.
As her reason begins to return
the wife senses the situation, and
the doctors’ “cure” turns out to
be no cure at all because the
only way she can reason is in
terms of her tradition. She
attempts to remove the obstacle
between her and her husband
with a pair of scissors, the inci-
dent is hushed up in the interests
of the profession and the doctor
is left with a disintegrated house-
hold, a son who has escaped into
marriage with the stigma of his
mother’s insanity on him, and a
daughter who is beginning to
feel she is all too like her mother.
Mr. Percy is credited with
writing the play to show the
effect of the A. P. Herbert Mat-
rimonial Causes Act 1937. If so,
he has posited a nice little prob-
lem for Mr. Herbert. The doctor
could easily certify his wife if he
cared to do it, but his conscience
won’t let him. The woman he
loves has the same conscience,
and so have his children. It
would be interesting to know
how Mr. Herbert would deal
with that situation in terms of a
legal enactment.
The Crisp players gave an ex-
cellent portrayal. Ray Edwards
showed the conflict between the
doctor’s beliefs and feelings, but
he did it no better than Jeanette
Caldwell as the mistress. Asnid
Johnson gave an extraordinarily
sensitive picture of the wife’s re-
turning consciousness and the
hatred it engendered. Verity
Alley gave an effective account
of the daughter’s dreads and
terrors, and Terence Crisp was
an efficient representative of or-
thodox medical opinion.


ammm
J
# ■
T
k\
DDE TO
SUMMER HEAT
freshen ub
with
WOLFE’S
zzAromrihc
WOLFES
AROMATIC
SCHNAPPS
Put the spring back into
your step with an occa-
sional Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Served with iced water,
soda or other cordial, it
is a most healthful and
refreshing summer
drink.
dsf
The responsibility of pfenning
your dependants* security is n
very personal one and one to
which you should devote much
thought. Above all avoid delay
in taking action. A simple,
direct and very definite way of
assuring security for yours, is
by arranging adequate life assur-
ance. The Equitable Probate &
General Insurance Co. Ltd-
will advise you.
R. V. PERKINS,
General Manager.
i
PROBATE*
il 6- GENERAL INSURANCE CO.LTD.
" Mead Office 30-373 (?imitSt,Br!si>ane •
*.N° t U 9 .H<^NOH (^mNfe
5V-
needs constant at*
tention if you want
him to remain fit and well. Watch for
signs of listlessness, poor appetite, warm
nose, dull or loose coat which are often
warnings that,he is suffering from diges-
tive disorders. Give him Barko Condition
Powders immediately.
YOUR
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS
1/6 PER BOX AT ALL CHEMISTS
Ancestors of
an Industry
f
Jf.
ifM*.
,i V/
r&gfAik
1
iv;
£fo,*
r,
Cm
a
st
ijllifr
k 'Xc.j
M
O
d-
sgH;
a
•-* VT-i
sat
b- W,WE5»
Mb s' „
0 .1
"•>4
i2l
'7
Sir JohnßennetLaWeS, squire of Rothamsted
in Hertfordshire, founded the world’s oldest agri-
cultural research station in his native village.
Financing it at first largely out of his own pocket,
he later endowed the station with money derived
from his process for making superphosphate. This
discovery led to the development of the modern
fertilizer industry.
Born in 1814, Lawes was attracted to chemistry
even as a boy. He had his own laboratory, first
in a bedroom and then in a barn. Educated at
Eton and Brazenose College, Oxford, he passed his
life at Rothamsted, and although his early success
with superphosphate made the young squire a
chemical manufacturer, his dominating interest
was always agricultural research. His experi-
mental work, carried out over a period.of fifty-
eight years in partnership with Sir Henry Gilbert,
laid the foundations of agricultural chemistry.
When he died in 1900, Lawes had been given a
baronetcy, been elected to the Fellowship of
the Royal Society, and received
the Albert Medal of the Royal
Society of Arts. No man ever
did more to ensure the world’s
food supply than this great
farmer-scientist.
ICI
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL
INDUSTRIES LIMITED
i. i IL/70/I6 ——
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT !
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
With the weather excellent, though
a mite too warm for comfort, Satur-
day’s Challenge Stakes. meeting at
Randwick was an exceptionally ■
bright afternoon’s racing. Folk
must have sensed that it was going
to be good; attendance was 40,500
compared with 22,600 at the cor-
responding meeting last year, and
the tote turnover soared from
£90,376 to £181,710.
By any dictum of form the Chal-
lenge looked a very open race. Give
Sydney bookmakers a nice open-
looking race and a good crowd of
Barnum’s minute-men to operate on,
and the wonder will be if anything
is quoted at double-figure odds. In
the Challenge five of the 11 runners
started at odds of 5 to 1 or less.
Caruso was the final favorite with
Skip Court, Heroic Sovereign, San
Domenico and Mine Host also at
short odds.
Showing a return to the form
which led some of the over-
enthusiastic to-hail him as “another
Phar Lap” a few months back, San
Domenico (A. Ward) won the Chal- ,
lenge and won it well; he led all
the way at a hot pace and held off
a strong challenge from Mine Host
at the finish. Count Cosmo was a
promising third, closely followed by
Skip Court; Heroic Sovereign ran
disappointingly and Caruso lost all
chance when he was left at the
start.
San Domenico is a three-year-old
brown gelding by Hua from the im-
ported mare Arpina. Saturday’s
win—worth £l4OO plus sweepstakes—
was his fifth from seven starts. San
Domenico’s only failures were at his
previous two starts, when, fresh from
a spell, and starting favorite on each
occasion, he ran a fairish third in
the Varroville Handicap and a thor-
oughly disappointing eighth in a
field of nine contesting the Carring-
ton Stakes.
After his success in the Challenge
Stakes, San Domenico’s owner-
trainer, R, P. Formosa, was widely
and lavishly reported in the Sunday
press as claiming that his horse had
been “got at” when he failed in the
Carrington. One account described
Formosa watching San Domenico
returning to scale accompanied by
some hooting from the crowd, and
commenting: “If they only knew as
much as I do about how someone
got at him in the Carrington.” It
is to be hoped that if Mr. Formosa
has any knowledge supporting this
report he will waste no time in
communicating it to the stewards.
The long arm of coincidence could
scarcely be stretched further than
when Laughter won the mile
Valicare Handicap for three-year-old
fillies; nor could any result have
been more appropriate. The race is
named, of course, after that very
good mare of other days. Laughter
is not only a direct descendant of
Valicare, but she was bred and is
owned by A.J.C. vice-chairman Pat
Osborne, who owned Valicare.
Valicare was, during a com-
paratively short racing cai , ee £’
wonderful mare. She seemed n
quite the same after a hea yt-rireakmg
tussle with the mighty Windbag m
the Warwick Stakes—nor for that
matter, did Windbag.. Valicare won
the Doncaster carrying 31b. over
weight for age, a grand performance
for a three-year-old filly,
her seventh successive victory, bhe
held her own in a day when there
were some fine horses racing—Wind-
bag, Manfred, Limerick, Amoums
and others. In all, Valicare won
nine races and over £12,000 in. stakes.
Pat Osborne bred from Valicare,
and from her descendants, but pro-
duced nothing approaching tne
quality of his champion. However,
Laughter, the latest, to carry Os-
borne’s all-green colors, might pro-
vide at least some compensation.
Ridden by F. Hickey she won on
Saturday in sterling fashion, and it
was but her second start in a race.
Despite her crushing topweight of
97, Wattle, odds-on favorite for
the Valicare, raced for the lead and
tried to run the others off their legs.
Wattle was still going strong at the
turn, where. Laughter was in a seem-
ingly hopeless position, boxed in at
the tail of the field. Inside the dis-
tance Wattle weakened; Lady in
Grey hit the front while, wide out,
Laughter was seen forcing her way
through. Laughter finished on very
generously to win by more than a
length from Lady in Grey, with
Frestona third.
Laughter started at 50 to 1, Lady
in Grey at 66 to 1 and Frestona at
1 33 to 1; only Revenir and Shannon
Rise had been seriously backed to
beat Wattle. However, many people
evidently had the notion of trying
to pick a rough ’un for a place on
the tote, with the result that the
placegetters paid nothing like the
dividends one would have expected.
Laughter paid over £7 on the win
tote but only £1 os. 9d. for a place;
Lady in Grey paid £1 9s. 9d. and
Frestona 15s. 6d.
Another race which produced some
unusual tote dividends was the 10-
furlongs January Handicap. Royal
Lad (A. Podmore), and the favorite
Transaction (N. Sellwood), staged a
thrilling finish over the final half-
furlong, Transaction, on the
rails, just getting up in the last
stride; the camera couldn’t separate
them. In cases of a deadheat for
first, place-dividends are always dis-
proportionately high compared with
the win-dividend. Transaction actu-
ally paid more for a place (7s. 3d.)
than for a win (6s. 6d.).
* * * «
Turf attendances in Melbourne
have seemed much on the light side
in recent weeks, and Saturday’s Caul-
field meeting followed that trend.
Main features of the day’s racing,
apart from most unpleasantly hot
weather, were the success of two
odds-on favorites, which is always
news, the further success of three
favorites at. more approachable odds,
which adds to the effect of the other,
and the failure of two favorites,
which saved bookmakers’ sanity and
robbed the day of a place in racing
history.
First of the odds-on pops to do
the right thing was the early New-
market favorite St. Razzle completely
outclassing the opposition in the
six-furlongs Barton Handicap. St.
Razzle was ridden by W. Williamson,
who had little to do but admire the
scenery; the St. Magnus five-year-old
had them covered from the start and,
making his run in the straight, won
by 2i lengths from Tamaroa, with
Chisel Beach three lengths further
back third. Of the others Comic
Court ran a surprisingly forward
race.
The Law Maker colt Ungar won
the C. F. Orr Stakes, but far too
narrowly for the peace of. mind of
those who had laid odds of 11 to 8
on; they could thank jockey A.
Breasley that they collected. Only
five started, and, with Cronides out
in front making the pace a cracker,
Breasley kept the favorite in behind
Attley, whom he rightly regarded as
his most dangerous opponent. The
tactics succeeded, giving Ungar the
run on Attley in the straight and he
won by a neck, with Monte Cassino
third.
For bookies the only compara-
tively bright spots in the day were
the Forrest Hurdle and the Kingston
Plate, and both went to well-backed
horses though the favorites were
beaten. Carting topweight of 10.7,
Promise You (B. R. Smith) made
a nice job of winning the Hurdle
from Kenloof and Bell Tower. In
the Kingston Plate (s£f.) for two-
year-old fillies Lady Pirouette showed
brilliant speed to down the favorite,
Centurion, by a half-length. Having
won twice against good company
from the three starts she has had,
Lady Pirouette looks like justifying
the high price paid for her as a year-
ling—-2100 guineas. She is a bay
daughter of Whirlaway, her dam
Hecuba being a half-sister to Ajax,
After that, as far as the bookies
were concerned, the rot set in prop-
erly, five favorites winning in
succession. Following the efforts of
St. Razzle and Ungar, the Dashing
Cavalier stallion Dashing Beau (E.
Johnstone) had a runaway win in
the Deakin Handicap (12f.); he beat
Variation by five lengths. Divisions
of the mile Mitchell Handicap went
to Dick Turpin (L. Lott) and Trumps
(W. Williamson).
* * * *
At Randwick, on Monday, the
Anniversary Handicap (12f.) was won
impressively by the favorite Transac-
tion, ridden a model race by N.
Sellwood to defeat Blue Danube and
Steady. It was the Golden Sovereign
gelding’s third win from as many
starts in little more than a week.
* * * *
They raced also on Monday at
Moonee Valley, where Royal Pageant
won the main event, the Australia
Day Cup of 13 furlongs. Other win-
ners at the Valley included Happy
Medium, Macshaw and Atomic Lass.
* * * *
Punters who think it tough to
pick winners from the fields of 20
Or so, usually the maximum here,
wouldn’t care for some of the big
handicaps run in England. For the
mile Lincolnshire Handicap last year
the starter had the man-sized job of
dispatching a field of 58. Commissar
did the Molotov act on punter's by
bolting in at 33 to 1.
* * * *
With some matches yet to be
played at the time of writing, the
Australian Lawn Tennis champion-
ships produced no notable upset
unless it were the defeat of Miss
Fitch in an early round of the
women’s singles.
Bromwich and Sedgman were the
finalists in the men’s singles, which
should surprise nobody except, pos-
sibly, some tennis officials who evi-
dently ceased exercising their powers
of observation somewhere round
1939. The old firm of Bromwich-
Quist played Brown-Sidwell in the
doubles final and won the title
(6-8, 7-5, 6-2, 6-3) for the seventh
time in a row. The American girl
Doris Hart, having already evinced
her superiority in State tournaments,
duly won the women’s singles, beating
Mrs. Bolton 6-3, 6-4. The only other
American to have won the Australian
title was Dorothy Bundy in 1938.
Miss Hart also won the mixed
doubles, partnered by Sedgman.
Doris Hart is to make a farewell
appearance at White City courts,
Sydney, on Saturday next, playing in
a series of exhibition matches. There
will also be played the postponed
final of the 1948 men’s doubles
championship of N.S.W., a repeat of
the Australian championship final
with Bromwich-Quist meeting Brown-
Sidwell.
* # * *
Having acclimatised somewhat,
visiting sprinter Lloyd La Beach is
proceeding to give local records a
battering. At Newcastle last week
he was timed at 9.4 sec. for the
100yds., equalling his own world
record (made on cinders), but the run
did not comply with conditions
necessary for it to be recognised as
a record. In Melbourne on Satur-
day, however, he officially covered
the trip in 9.55ec., breaking the Aus-
tralian record (9.65ec.) and evidently
surprising himself. In some astonish-
ment he declared that Australian
turf surfaces, contrary to general
belief, are faster than overseas
cinder tracks.
* * * *
Sheffield Shield:
Vic. v. Q’land at Brisbane last
week was a match of rare bright-
ness. The Victorians were in great
humor after scoring 456 and outing
the Q’landers for 203; lan Johnson
did the damage, taking six wickets
for 59. In the follow-on, however,
the Queensland team turned on a
noble reversal of form, staying at
the wickets for 554 minutes to put
431 on the board. It was their
highest score to date —the previous
best being 384 v. N.S.W. —and the
highest by any team in the second
innings of Shield matches this sea-
son. After the regular Victorian
bowlers had been worn to a frazzle,
the ball was tossed in desperation to
young Neil Harvey, who took two
for 11, which, with K. Meuleman
also bagging one, ended the hammer-
ing. Left the rather stiff job of get-
ting 128 in 25 minutes, Victoria had
13 on the board at stumps for a win
on the first innings by 253 runs.
The Victorians then headed south
for the vital match with N.S.W. —the
145th time the pair have clashed
since N.S.W. won the opening match
at Melbourne in 1856. Winning the
toss, Hassett sent N.S.W. in,
anticipating a lively wicket. Hassett
guessed aright, and a major stumbling
block in the shape of Morris was
removed in quick order. On the
defensive, Miller and Burke carried
on for three hours to add 134 for
the second wicket, Miller going at
99 while Burke, in Gibraltar-fashion,
made 37—a pity to see such a
potentially brilliant young player
developing into a confirmed and
deadly stonewaller. Just on stumps
the last wicket fell with the total
229. On Saturday the Victorians
had to face the music—dealt out
prestissimo fortissimo by Lindwall
and Walker. The visitors were back
in the pavilion with only 165 to their
credit. The remainder of Saturday’s
play saw the ’Walers make a poor
start on their second innings, Morris
(2), Burke (1) and Miller (7) being
out with only a dozen runs on the
board; Donaldson and Moroney,
however, held the fort till stumps,
when the tally was 80 for three
wickets.
* * * *
The Kangaroo Rugby League tour-
ists will return from t’other side, if
not flushed with victory, at least
flush; they’ve drawn good crowds.
At Bradford on Saturday 44,000 saw
the home side beat them 23-9 in the
postponed final Test. England also
won the first Test (23-21) and the
second (16-7). It is the second time
that England has scooped the pool—
the other in 1933 when they won
4-0, 7-5 and 19-16. Since Dally
Messenger took the first Australian
team to England in 1908, 45 Tests
have been played, England win-
ning 29, Australia 12 arfd the re-
mainder being drawn.
* * * *
Ken Bailey (9.9) v. Joe Grant
(9.8 f) at Leichhardt was a good
clean scientific scrap with the out-
come never in doubt. Bailey’s right
dook appeared to be out of action;
he had trouble getting the glove on
and throughout the fight scarcely
used his right, evidently afraid of
injuring it further. Nevertheless his
left was too efficient for Grant’s
defences, and, piling up points
galore with lefts to the head and
body, Bailey won comfortably.


Sim
TANQUERAY GORDON & CO. LTD.
• LONDON GIN DISTILLERS
LONDON ENGLAND
Do yon
• • e
a
but what does
Red Cross do nou>-
99
>o y©n
know • • •
O that Red Cross cares for sick and wounded ex-servicemen of both
wars, their dependents, and for ex-P.O.W.’s welfare.
O that Red Cross entirely maintains a free Blood Transfusion Service
. throughout Australia.
O that Red Cross has been helping combat tuberculosis for over 25
years with sanatoria and social welfare work.
O that Red Cross provides a handcraft and library service to hospitals;
has five Convalescent Homes for sick ex-servicemen and five Junior
Red Cross Homes for servicemen’s children.
Do yon care ...
1
that the responsibility rests upon you to give help to the sick and
suffering ? Red Cross knows that you do. How can you help ? By
sending a donation to your Red Cross Headquarters or to your
local Red Cross Branch; by giving the proceeds of your function
to Red Cross and by voluntary work.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Copy of drawing or photograph of
Henry Lawson suitable for framing.
—4549.
To buy copy of Beyond the City
Gates by Jack Moses.—4s4B.
To buy copy of Shrapnel Green and
Other Verses by Oscar-Walters. —4547.
To buy cartridges for breechloader
gun, 28 b0re.—4450.
Bulletin staff man, wife, no chil-
dren, wants furnished flat, cottage,
any suburb, Sydney.—44sl.
Information Sought.
Where was Tommy Uren born, and
is he still alive? What Australian
championships did Uren win ?
Uren was born in Leichhardt
(N.S.W.) on July 13, 1893, and is
still living in Sydney. He won the
Australian middleweight championship
three times from 1917 to 1922 and
was also recognised as welter cham-
pion on three occasions after winning
that title from Fred K.ay in 1915,
until Archie Bradley beat him in 1924.
Besides these two championships,
Uren won the lightweight title from,
and lost it to, Herb McCoy in 1915.
Can Australian flannel-flower plants
be raised in a suburban area ? What
soil is suitable, and where can seed be
purchased ?
For this native plant deep, well-
drained beds made of sandy loam,
rotted bush leaf-mould and river-sand
(equal parts) are necessary, and made
up thoroughly, since transplanting is
not recommended. Avoid overwater-
ing—too much moisture causes
plants to wilt. Seed is sold by mer-
chants and florists under the name of
Actinotus helianthii, and sown in
summer and early autumn.
* * * *
How do (1) grasshoppers and (2)
mosquitoes breed?
(1) The female grasshopper bores a
hole in the ground in which she lays
her eggs, covers them with a protec-
tive body-secretion and leaves them
there for some months until favorable
weather conditions eventuate. A
miniature wingless grasshopper em-
erges from the egg and feeds on sur-
rounding herbage, hopping from place
to place. After some weeks it goes
through a moult, and develops wings
as the adult form which produces
eggs, and carries on the life-cycle.
(2) The female mosquito lays eggs on
still water. These hatch into an active
feeding larval stage. This turns into
an active mouthless pupa, from which
stage the adult emerges.
* * * *
Best time to prune hydrangeas ?
Most suitable soil to strike cuttings,
and when should they be taken ?
Hydrangeas should be pruned within
a few weeks of final flowers falling —
generally in late February; when left
later, next year’s flowering will be
restricted. Cuttings placed in con-
tainers of sandy loam root readily.
Use pieces of firm wood from which
all but two sets of “eyes” have been
rubbed off. Firm cuttings at the base,
water regularly and stand in a shady
comer until growth appears, then
gradually harden in the open air.
They will be ready for the open
garden in the following year.
* *
What flowering bulbs grow well in
pots ? How are they grown ? Do
you recommend growing them in pots
in a warm climate ?
All the stronger-growing daffodils,
hyacinths, tulips and freesias do well
in pots, and the method is particularly
suited to a warm climate. Only selec-
ted bulbs should be planted—six bulbs
in a pot, 10 in a 6in. Fill
bottom of the pots with pieces of
broken pots, and use rich, fibrous,
loamy soil, mixed with a little sharp
sand. Plant bulbs with crowns an
inch below surface, well water and
place pots in a cool shady position,
where they may remain till tops have
begun to show; then move into a
sunny position.
* * * *
What is a Guignol, and how did
the term originate?
Originally a /French puppet-show,
.the equivalent of the English Punch
and Judy. It was developed from
the Italian pupazzi by Laurent Mour-
guet, who in 1795 established a theatre
in Lyons, which was kept up for
many years by his descendants. The
name is said to be derived from
Guignol, or Chignol, a silk-weaver of
Lyons, where, as in Paris, the per-
formance is one of the most popular
street shows. The term is now applied
to stage performances of short plays
of a sensational character.
* * * *
Is a watch affected by powerful
magnetic fields, as those created by
dynamos, alternators, etc. ?
Yes. The hairspring and balance-
wheel are made of steel, which be-
comes magnetised in the vicinity of a
strong magnetic field. This may cause
tha hairspring to be attracted towards
the cross-arm of the balance-wheel,
and so stop the watch or cause it to
keep erratic time.
* * * . *
How can white ambergris be identi-
fied ?
It is chalky-white, brittle and pos-
sesses a very faint musty odor. It
■ crumbles when ' scraped with the
fingernail. A slightly-heated piece
when worked between the fingers be-
comes soft, plastic and brown in
color. Some samples exhibit a pitted
or honeycomb surface, and under the
magnifying-glass are seen to consist ’
of both white and light-yellow resi-
nous-looking materials.
* * * *
(1) Particulars of the seabird known
as the skua? (2) Its feeding habits?
(3) How did it get its name?
(1) They are gull-like, dark-brown
birds with hooked beaks. Two species
visit Australasian seas, Catharacta
lonnbergi and Stercorarius parasiticus.
The former—the Egmont hen to
Maorilanders —-comes north in winter,
breeding south towards the Antarctic;
the latter comes in summer, going
back during our winter to breed in
the Arctic regions. (2) A few hover
whilst other seabirds fish. When one
rises, down swoops the skua, forcing
the bird to drop its catch, on to
which the skua darts, taking it before
it hits water. It also eats eggs and
smaller birds. (3) From its cry.
* * * *
Did William Charles Wentworth
ever make an effort to establish an
Australian peerage, and, if so, what
prevented him from carrying out the
idea ?
In 1853 Wentworth’s select com-
mittee, appointed by the N. S. Wales
Leg. Council to draft a Constitution
bill, recommended the creation of peers
with hereditary titles to form a body
from which members of the Upper
House under responsible government
should be drawn. Henry Parkes,
through his newspaper, the “Empire,”
called on all citizens to oppose the
establishment of a colonial aristocracy
with legislative functions. As a re-
sult of the determined opposition to
the proposal, Wentworth reluctantly
agreed to abandon it, accepting in-
stead the nominee principle for the
Upper House.
* # * *
What kind of winds are the fol-
lowing: (2) Bisc, (2) harmattan, (3)
mistral and (4) simoon ?
(1) A keen, dry n. or n.-n.-e. wind
prevalent in Switzerland and neigh-
boring parts of France, Germany and
Italy. (2) A dry, parching, land-wind
which blows during December, Janu-
ary and February on die coast of
Upper Guinea in Africa; it obscures
the air with a red dust. (3) A violent
cold n.-w. wind experienced in the
Mediterranean provinces of France
and neighboring districts. (4) A hot,
dry, suffocating sandwind which
sweeps across the African and Asiatic
deserts during spring and summer.
* * * *
How to prepare a snakeskin for
belt-making ?
Soak skin in water for two days,
then place in solution of 31b. slaked
lime to 10 gallons of water. Handle
skins each day until scales can be
scraped off the skin. Wash well and
scrape off all loose flesh. Tan in a
jar, using weak clean wattlebark liquid
obtained from the bark with cold
water. Wash after tanning. After
tanning lay skin out smooth and flat
on a board and give it a light coat
of oil, then allow to dry. If skin re-
ceives too much oil reduce by immers-
ing 10 minutes in petrol. To finish,
give skin a coat of thick starch solu-
tion, and iron with ordinary domestic
iron on the scale side.
* * * *
What is the story of the abandon-
ment of the steamer Pilbarra in the
Pacific about 25 years ago ?
On the run from Noumea to Suva
on March 4, 1905, she lost her
propeller-blades, and on the night of
the 7th, drifting close into the s.-e.
point of Erromanga (New Hebrides),
was abandoned. The crew, who had
landed in Dillon Bay, saw her at day-
break drifting into the s.-w., and some
of them rowed after her and boarded
her on the Bth at noon. The s.s. In-
duna picked up those of the crew
who remained at Dillon Bay on the
13th, and then set after the Pilbarra,
took her in tow off D’Entrecasteaux
Reef (New Caledonia) on the 17th
and arrived at Vila Harbor (New
Hebrides) with her on the 21st.
* * * *
In a N.S.W. country cricket match
(playing without flagged boundaries)
a batsman hit a ball which could not
be found; how are the runs recorded?
M.C.C. Law 21 states: “If a ball
in play cannot be found or recovered
any fieldsman may call ‘Lost ball’ and
six runs shall be added to the score;
but if more than six have been run
before ‘Lost ball’ be called as many
runs as have been run shall be
scored.” In all first-class matches
hits over the boundaries add six runs
to the score.
Brief Answers.
H.N.R.: The simplest method of
waterproofing felt would be to treat
it with an aluminium acetate-wax
emulsion. Such emulsions are avail-
able under the trade-names of Waxol
and Dipsanil. The felt should be
treated by immersion in the emulsion
for about five minutes, then squeezed
to remove excess liquor and dried.
These treatments, properly applied,
should not adversely affect the
physical properties of the felt....
E.W.K.: (1) It is not possible to
convert a Miner’s Homestead Lease
to Freehold under the Queensland
Lands Act nor has it been possible
to do so during the period stated.
(2) Under the Miners’ Homestead
Leases Acts (Qld.), rent is payable on
a Miner’s Homestead Lease for 30
years, after which the lease may be
endorsed, and thereafter a nominal
rental of Is. per annum is payable, if
demanded, but the tenure is not con-
verted to freehold R.C.F.: Repeat
question, stating the brand of varnish
used... .R.E.8.: (1) Write J. H.
Smyth Pty., Ltd., 114 Castlereagh-
street, Sydney. (2) Write Australian
Museum, College-street, Sydney. (3)
Information not available locally.
Write to the appropriate authorities
in the two countries R.L.A.:
Write Under-Secretary, Department of
Immigration, Canberra, A.C.T
K.E.: It would appear that you would
be entitled to receive an age pension
at the maximum rate, provided you
are residing in your home D.J.S.:
(I) Andrew Lang’s History of Scot-
land from the Roman Occupation
to the Suppression of the Last Jacobite
Rising. (2) Try Barker’s Bookshop,
Brisbane C.W.: Write Secretary,
N.S.W. branch, British Medical As-
sociation, 135 Macquarie-street, Syd-
ney 8.5.Mc1.: (1) At the time
mentioned the Wallaroo and Moonta
Co. was the leading Australian pro-
ducer of copper. (2) Deepest shaft at
Wallaroo was 2982 ft., and was not
the deepest in the world. (3) Total
amount paid as dividends was about
£2,500,000. Total value of copper
ore produced from the whole field is
£20,592,830. (4) The jig mentioned is
the “Hancock Jig,” which was in
operation at Wallaroo before it was
used in Broken Hill and elsewhere.
(5) W. E. Slee, the last gen. manager
of the company, is living at Wallaroo
Mines at the present time A.C.O. :
(1) A person prospecting for gold in
Queensland should hold a miner’s
right. Price is ss. p.a. (2) A Qld.
Miner’s Right is of no use in other
States or in New Guinea. (3) Pros-
pecting assistance is granted in
approved cases. Application should
be made to the nearest warden. (4)
Introduction to Geology, by W. B.
Scott, 465.; Textbook of Geology, by
Lake and Rastall, 305.; and Hints
to Prospectors and Owners of Treat-
ment Plants, by Corbett, Is. (5)
Figures for Queensland are 1947, 1487
fine oz.; 1948, 650 fine oz. (6) Apply
to Mines Departments of the various
States W.C.: M.C.C. Cricket Law
6 stipulates that the wickets shall
be pitched opposite and parallel to
each other at a distance of 22 yards;
each wicket.shall be 9in. in width, the
stumps 28in. out of the ground and
the bails 4£in. in length. This law
is standard wherever cricket is played.


“Perhaps it was an idea of Rick’s to
move it. He always wanted to move it.”
“I’ll move him" he said. “It’s not
safe where it is. It’s moving round. It
made a hell of a noise when I passed it.
It frightened Fancy.”
“They do that sometimes,” I said. “In
the sun. When they get hot. Particularly
if they’re upside-down. The air heats
up and they make a noise.”
J N the morning I put Matt and Bess
1 in the sledge again, and took another
load of posts out the back. Old Luke
was riding alongside me, on Fancy. When
we came up past the tank it made a
funny kind of noise again, as though
someone was drumming on it, and Matt
and Bess lit out again. I got them pulled
up, and the boss came up alongside. He
reined in.
“There’s something awful funny about
that tank,” he said. “I could have sworn
it moved.”
“It certainly made a noise,” I said.
“It couldn’t have been the heat, because
it’s not hot.”
“It didn’t sound like heat. It sounded
like some other kind of a noise,” he
said. “Like there was something under-
neath it. Something bawling.”
“The kids all home?” I asked, and he
nodded. “Maybe it’s one of the pigs,”
I said.
“Could be,” he said, “They were out
for a time yesterday.”
I called to the horses and moved off
again.
“Hold hard,” Luke said, riding up.
“Maybe we better look into this.”
“I better get out to this job first,” I
said. “This team is sure scared of that
tank.”
“No,” he said. “Better bring them.
We might want a haul to get the tank
set up on them spars again. Damn that
Rick fellow. He might have had more
sense than tip it up.”
WHEN we got back to the tank it
certainly was making a noise, and it
sounded like someone bellowing. Luke
got off his horse.
“Someone under there?” shouts old
Luke, sticking his head down. We
couldn’t make out what the tank said.
It was kind of muffled and boomy, but
Fancy lit out. The old man swore and
started to chase her, but he could see
she was going to finish up at the stable,
so he went back and put his head down
again.
“Is that you, Rick?” he called, and the
tank boomed and boomed.
“What the hell are you doing there,
Rick?” old Luke called; but the tank
just boomed again.
“He’s gone mad, I think. He’s trying
to say something, but I can’t get any
sense out of him nohow,” old Luke said
to me. The tank made more noise than
ever, and I had the dickens of a job
hanging on to Matt and Bess.
“Take them back to the stable,” Luke
told me. “And catch Fancy while you’re
there and put her in a stall. They’re
more nuisance than enough. I’ll talk to
this fellow while you’re gone, and find
out what he’s doing this for.” The tank
began to bellow and vibrate. ,
When I came back we managed to
jam one of the spars underneath and
lever the tank up a little. Luke put his
head down again and called to me.
“Come and have a look at the fellow,
Watty,” he said. “He’s sitting here in
a pool of water. What are you doing
there, Rick?” he asked.
That was the first time we could hear
what Rick was saying. But it wasn’t
very explanatory. He shut up after a
while, when he realised we were trying
to get him out, and when we had the tank
half-lifted he crawled out from under.
He wouldn’t tell us what he had been
doing, though. We had to piece it to-
gether afterwards from the skidmarks and
the dents in the tank. He didn’t say
much at all. He just walked over to the
hut and began to pack his gear.
<t| KNEW the cow was going to
1 leave,” old Luke said. “He had
that kind of a look in his eye when I
paid him last Saturday night.”
It took me pretty near all day to get
that tank shored up on the spars again.
I didn’t hurry. I had plenty of nice
steady work in front of me. Old Luke
drove Rick in to the railway himself.
He wasn’t sorry to see him go, he told
me.
“Too many fancy ideas for a place
like this,” he said. “There was no need
to go shifting tanks about. The fellow
made more work than he was worth.”
THE LORD of the ART
By GEOFF BINGHAM
THERE is, fortunately, no such thing
as an unlikely-looking fisherman.
Anyone, praise God, can be a fisher-
man, be he bank-manager or
garbage-collector, and something between
these two extremes was Charly Twist,
long and strong and red and black;
black hair tousled and matted over low
forehead and hot red face, gleaming
dark eyes and a stubble like a black
scrubbing-brush. Below that the long
powerful body and big thick hands that
knew how to handle a rod cunningly and
catch fish where no one else could catch
them.
Not that Mr. Twist fished all the time.
Like all honorable men —and this, no
doubt, embraces all fishermen —Mr.
Twist had his worldly occupation as
driver of the cream lorry ; an occupation
which, however, merely served to fill in
time between fishing and to keep body
and soul together, and the combined
bodies and souls of Mrs, Twist and a
large family. There were many twists
and turns in that family, all boys and
hearty eaters.
Mr. Twist owed his red face in part to
his visits to the Coqlbucca Royal —a
third and habitual part of his life. There
he loved to tell his adventures with rod
and line, and, since fishing relives in the
telling, it was a delightful experience to
go into the details of tackle and tussle;
warmth flowing from alcohol and re-
inforced by admiration would make Mr.
Twist glory in his high place in the peer-
age of fishermen, men of goodwill.
MEN of goodwill. Mr. Twist knew
no others, for he was a Prince of
Fishermen. Men would stand him drinks
just to hear his tales, the hopeful among
them, like Mr. Tracey, hanging on his
words for some hint, some mite of in-
formation which would aid them in the
hunt for the evasive bass. There was no
man from Burtville to Coolbucca, from
Samarkand to Peru, who knew so much
as the redoubtable Mr. Twist. Grown
men regarded him with something of
that youthful admiration they had once
reserved for Test cricketers and engine-
drivers, and longed to rival him. So do
men long for fame, and aspire to be as
the ugly Mr. Twist.
Mr. Twist then was a fisherman, and
a great fisherman. And he fished alone.
Not for him the matey endeavor, but
solitude and the individual struggle, the
sharp tussle, after which the great man
would pick up his prizes and walk home.
It was this walking home which Mr.
Twist loved, although, to be sure, his
serenity did not show on his crimson
face. It might be early morning when
you saw Mr. Twist or in the late even-
ing, in which case he would be carrying
a hurricane-lamp, a plump haul in the
other hand. And never, never, a small
fish.
THERE were strange features about
Mr. Twist’s fishing. For one thing,
he had never been known to give one
away. Those rich fruits of shallows and
sun-speckled pools, those gleaming shapes
fit to be eaten by gods, each and everyone
found its way to the Twist pot or the
Twist pan and into the various Twist
bellies. And it was impossible to get an
invitation to go fishing with him. True,
now and again, he would consent to
company, but always reluctantly. But
never a fish of any consequence would
be caught. No perch, often enough not
even a nibble. And Mr. Twist would
sit grimly triumphant.
“Perch is perch,” he would say. “And
they know who’s who and what’s what.”
A statement difficult to refute or, indeed,
make anything of.
And yet this did nothing to detract
from Charly Twist’s reputation. In fact,
it added to it; his habit of solitude justi-
fied. The lone and successful fisherman.
Not for him the habited places, the noisy
party, the jokes and the phutting boat
on the river, the noise and swirl dear to
the heart of the surf fisherman or the
lonely black of the rocks. For Charly
the long dark pool, the lush honeybanks,
the willows drooping and tempting the
wary fish. And he caught them, a fact
that fiercely troubled Mr. Tracey.
Mr. Tracey was Charly Twist’s next-
door neighbor, an enthusiastic but un-
successful fisherman. And as Mr. Tracey
grew more unsuccessful, and more in-
sanely enthusiastic, the prowess of his
neighbor seemed to haunt him. If he
sat by a pool Charly Twist seemed to
brood over it; he grimaced from a
willow, he was scornful and contemptu-
ous, and, as the hours passed with no
ripple on the surface, and no timid
nudging at the bait, Mr. Tracey imagined
he could hear Twist’s hoarse laughter.
Sometimes Mr. Twist taunted. He rose
as a huge red-and-black apparition and
pointed a thick malignant finger at the
incapable Mr. Tracey. He devoured hope
with a scoffing display of his own fine
catch, and Mr, Tracey trembled with
anger, desire and delight.
“You’ve got to have the knack,
Tracey,” Charly would say as he drove
Mr. Tracey home in the cream lorry after
the Friday shopping in at Coolbucca.
“It’s born in you, or it ain’t, kind of,
see?” Mr. Tracey saw, but the soul of
him writhed.
AS Mr. Tracey had reason to reflect
in after years, Providence is kind,
and all is very well with the best of pos-
sible worlds, for not even Mr, Tracey
dreamed that such good fortune was to
play into his hand the night he went
fishing in Charly Twist’s pool.
It is a strange thing, no doubt, but a
man will consider such and such a pool
his own, his very own, as though thus
ordained before the beginning of the
world, this being given to him by God
to be a comfort and solace in the many
sad hours which befall all men, a refuge
from trial and the stress of trouble.
Mr. Tracey had his pools to be sure,
pools which were his by atmosphere
alone, and he kept to them, and grew to
love them in spite of their small returns,
yet after a time he longed after and
coveted his neighbors’ pools, neighbor
Twist’s into the bargain, and yet, it seems,
he was forgiven his transgression of a
wise commandment.
Thus he came suddenly upon his neigh-
bor, walking silently as was his custom out
of deference to a very shy family of fish,
walking softly in his rubber waders. So
he had gone quietly in all his ways, else
might he have startled Charly Twist.
CHARLY TWIST was not quiet. Mr.
Tracey could hear a strange swish-
ing, a long sighing noise, and then a
muttered word or two from the truck-
driver. Strange, thought Mr. Tracey.
Noise where there are perch ; and then it
seemed to him that the words grew
louder, that they contained the venom of
scorn, and humiliating scorn at that.
“Got you, you little beauty!” said Mr.
Twist. “Youse the one that got away
last time,” he told something. “Well, not
this time,” he shouted triumphantly, and
with that a huge fish curved through the
air, high above the bank, on to the grass
of the couch flat, falling at the feet of
the amazed Mr. Tracey.
It was a fish beyond the dimensions
of his own brooding dreams, and for a
moment he had a wild idea of grabbing
it, and fleeing, evading Charly Twist and
running right into civilisation with it,
holding it high and crying, “I caught it!
.1 caught it!”
But the dream faded, the roseate flame
of it died to cold dark ashes, and Mr.
Tracey trembled with a strange weak-
ness that comes to longing fishermen
when they see a great fish, as it were, in
their dreams.
Then another fish. Another. Another.
And another. “Oh, no,” said Mr. Tracey
in a terrible voice. “This is not true,”
But it was true, and in the dark belly
of the night did Charly Twist mutter
and rumble, and from the same dark
belly issued these flashing, flapping mon-
sters of fish, making the grass writhe with
unbelievable truth.
Unbelievable truth. Untrue truth.
Perverted truth. Twisted truth. For the
torch flashed, and the light glowed, and
there stood Charly Twist, revealed in all
his terribleness, all his pitifulness, all his
tarnished honor, his discarded claim to
be a man amongst men, a Prince of
Fishermen.
i< A NET, by Heavens! ” roared Mr.
A Tracey, and his voice was greater
than the waterfalls. It thundered above
the horrified Mr. Twist. It gouged the
splendid reputation out of him, and left
him a red-and-black thief, standing in
the darkness, a prisoner at the bar of
Mr. Tracey’s wrath, a wretch under
judgment of an inexorable Judge. Yet
not only Mr. Tracey the Judge, but all
mankind, and especially the terrible fel-
lowship of the fishermen.
“Tracey,” said Charly Twist in a queer
voice.
“So that’s it,” said Mr. Tracey
brokenly. He knew it was at these times
a man commits murder to hide his shame,
yet here was shame in his own voice for
having discovered a fellow-being at this
dastardly act, but —and he noticed it —
slight triumph, too. His eyes gleamed,
his chest expanded, his blood pounded
lightly. One truth was revealed, then,
amongst all this calumny. Mr. Tracey
was as good as, if not a better fisherman
than, Twist.
“I thought it’d happen one day,” said
Charly Twist, yet his voice registered
neither hatred nor relief. It was just a
tone in the night.
“I can’t understand it,” muttered Mr.
Tracey, bewildered.
“You won’t tell,” whispered Charly
Twist.
“Tell!” whispered Mr. Tracey back to
him.
“I’ll give you half,” said Mr. Twist,
slight eagerness in his voice, but no hope.
“Never,” said Mr. Tracey firmly. A
wild idea struck him. “You’re the one
who’s spoilt our fishing,” he almost
shouted. “My fishing, too. You with
your netting. You’ve made them shy.”
“It does make them shy,” admitted Mr.
Twist reluctantly. He remained peni-
tent, in the dark.
“Then it’s the last time you shall net,”
said Mr. Tracey triumphantly. “There’s
a fifty-pound fine you know.”
Mr. Twist knew. He had known it
year in, year out. It had dwelf in his
mind, that knowledge, and in those times
when he boasted his prowess at the
Royal.
“Tell you what,”, he said huskily. “If
I leave the pools alone, will you be quiet
about it?”
“DE quiet?” said Mr. Tracey, staring.
t—Ht had not occurred to him to ex-
pose the fellow. He shrank back from
unclothing a man in the sight of his
fellow-creatures. “Well” he said
cunningly.
“That’s right,” urged Charly Twist
eagerly, wiping his sweating brow.
Hope, now, surged in the breast of
Mr. Tracey. These pools, these quiet
pools as they would be, the cream of
them not robbed in dastardly manner as
hitherto —all his.
“Well,” he repeated in a conditional
voice.
“You’re a good bloke, Tracey,” said
Charly Twist happily. “See, here, mate.
I couldn’t wait hours. Not on your life.
Fish helps me to keep that there family
of mine, see? I net ’em. It’s quick, and
it’s good, cheap food.”
“Good, cheap food?” repeated Mr.
Tracey wonderingly, and horrified for
Mr. Twist’s soul.
“Yes,” said Mr. Twist, “and what’s
more, mate, if you shut up I’ll never
catch a fish again.” He spat fully at
the water.
Mr. Tracey pondered. The entire
ethical map was there portrayed in his
mind. Here was the road of a man’s
sin, there the path of a man’s trial. Here
a triumphant fisherman, the like of whom
had not been before heard, now likely to
be thrust into perpetual scorn, cast into
the darkness of contempt. There the
path he, Mr. Tracey, would take, one
virtually bestrewn with fish, delightful
hours, fruitful engagements.
“Very well, Twist,” he said. “We’ll
let it rest at that. Although, mind you,”
and here he shook a warning finger at
the wretch before him, “never again,
see?”
“Never again,” agreed Mr. Twist
hoarsely.
“HT HEN take your fish,” said Mr.
1 Tracey magnificently, “and go.”
He felt the power of the moment, the
tremendous height On which he stood
looking down at the poor wretch. Yet
in his heart there was only kindliness,
pity, sorrow for a legend overthrown, and
a faint desire for one or two of the ex-
piring fish.
“You wouldn’t like one?” asked Charly
Twist.
“I wouldn’t like ope,” said Mr. Tracey
unwaveringly.
So it was Mr. Twist gathered his last
haul, and was swallowed up by the dark-
ness of the night. So it was Mr. Tracey
stood and pondered the marvellous ways
of man and God, and although his stern
code never once altered, or deflected in
favor of the fishing outcast, yet did pity
flood him, and then, as he thought upon
the new world which now opened before
him, delight which came sweeping glori-
ously over him, a foretaste of sweet
dreams, which to the fisherman are per-
haps never dreams but only reality lying
in the near world of the future.


where the world sees
YOUR WOOL AT ITS BEST
unrivalled skill of A.M.L.&F. in displaying your wool shows it off to the
best advantage, when the world’s biggest wool buyers inspect it.
A.M.L.&F. are acknowledged experts in valuing and lotting, too; that’s why
bidding is confident when “the A.M.L.&F. man” is on the rostrum.
Small clip or large, your wool looks its best and sells at its best in the hands
of A.M.L.&F.
85 Years in the Service of the Man on the Land.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance Coy. Ltd.
Inc. in England in 1863.
4 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
. Branches at Newcastle, Wagga, Moree, Henty and Hay.
A 16.22
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
ds
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
ROOM-ONLY RATES
Single Rooms—
From 8/- per night
Double Rooms—
From 15/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
“ METROPOLE /*
Sydney.
Telephones:
8W2061 (9 lines)
For immediate delivery contact
Famous British
ENGINES
are
NOW
AVAILABLE
at
REDUCED
PRICES
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY. LTD.
’PHONE: MA 6311 7-11 MARKET ST., SYDNEY
To Help Solve Yoor Money Worries
m/t
A personal, confidential service
is available at the Rural Bank
to those financially embarrassed.
Personal loans from £lO upwards
are made at a moderate rate of
interest with repayments spread
over a period of years. If you’re
troubled about money matters
and unexpected bills, come in
and talk it over.
RURAL BANK
Head Office! Marlin Place, Sydney.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Hints on Handpieces.
“The Expert”: Though it is
the most important part of a
modem machine-shearing plant
the handpiece is the most
neglected. How often, for in-
stance, are handpieces properly
stored between seasons?
As soon as the shed cuts out
the handpiece should be cleaned
Remove the worn comb and
cutter, dip the front of the hand-
piece into near-boiling water to
remove grease, yolk and grit,
examine for worn and cracked
parts (send for replacements at
once, not when the sheep are in
the shed for next shearing), oil
thoroughly, wrap in greased-
paper and store in a dry place.
When a handpiece in appar-
ently good condition is cutting
badly it is generally an indica-
tion of poor grinding or in-
correct setting of the centre-post.
Some geniuses can set a centre-
post by feel, most are designed
to be set by sight, but the only
sure way is to buy a gauge
manufactured by the makers for
this purpose. When setting a
centre - post remember that,
though any comb may be used,
always adjust with a cutter of
the thickness that is to be used.
A handpiece needs plenty of
oil in the right places. A solidi-
fied -oil is best in the barrel, as
one filling will last several days
but if ordinary oil is used it must
be filled every run. About four
times a run the top and bottom
fork-cups, back-joint cogs, back-
joint spindle and the crank-roller
should receive a generous squirt
of oil. About three times a week
the tension-nut should be
greased according to the manu-
facturer’s instructions. The joint
caps should be sprung off and
greased at least before every
shearing.
If there is any doubt of the
condition of your handpieces
send them to the manufacturer,
where they will be checked and
thoroughly overhauled by ex-
perts.
Wheats for 1949.
“He-Ne”: Because of stem-
rust damage in N.S.W. wheat in
1947 the Standing Advisory
Committee recommended for
1948 sowing, in a large portion
of the wheat area, the rust-
resistant Celebration, Charter,
Gabo, Kendee and Yalta. The
past season proved that the re-
commendation was fully justi-
fied.
Main features of the 1949 re-
commendations are a further ex-
tension of the zones for which
these five wheats are recom-
mended, and the inclusion of the
Victorian wheat. Quadrat, for
the Riverina.
Quadrat, a cross between
Ghurka and C.M.G., is now the
leading Victorian wheat. It
matures late, and is best suited
for heavy types of soil. How-
ever, measured by N.S.W.
standards, the grain quality is
unsatisfactory, and Quadrat is
susceptible to both stem- and
leaf-rust, though resistant to flag-
smut. It is recommended for
districts where, in the past,
Ghurka has given good results.
The committee says that of the
five new wheats Gabo is out-
standing, and Kendee has shown
up well. A major factor in re-
ducing N.S.W. yields this season
was extensive frost and cold
injury. In part this can be attri-
buted to sowing varieties out of
season. There was very little
rust, harvesting conditions were
ideal and the grain quality was
excellent.
Varieties deleted from the re-
commendations are Pusa 4,
Fedweb 1, Bungulla and
Ghurka, whilst Gular and
Waratah are only recommended
for one zone. In addition to the
five new wheats, main recom-
mendations are for Ford, Ben-
cubbin, Bordan and Koala.
“Mr.”: This was the best
season in the Victorian Wimmera
for many years, as reflected in
the wheat-crop championship.
First, second and third crops all
yielded more than 60 bushels an
acre, and the winning exhibit, a
crop of Pinnacle grown by W. E.
Dahlenburg (Horsham), gave a
return of bushels. A. E.
Mock (Kaniva) was second with
a. crop of Magnet which yielded
62.4 bushels, and H. E. Holland
(Dimboola) third with Pinnacle,
60.5 bushels.
In the north R. W. Thomas
(Dookie) grew Baldmin on black
soil which had been cropped
regularly for several years in a
wheat-fallow rotation. It gave a
measured yield of 63.7 bushels
and was dense, well-headed and
practically pure. P. F. Sims
(Springhurst) was second with
Magnet, which, although yielding
less than the winner’s, was rated
first-class.
Breaking Down Clods.
“Sundowner”: Working-down
of rough land can be greatly
assisted by a leveller made from
two main members of an old car
chassis, three 6in. x 2in. planks
10ft. long, a grader plank
12in. x 3in. and an old grader
blade, 4in. x |in., sharpened and
fitted to the plank for its full
length to make a cutting edge.
Fit ends of the grader-plank
into the chassis members with
short pieces of round iron, sc
enabling it to be swivelled to
allow lessening or dropping of
load. The plank is turned by a
wooden handle. A platform foi
the operator to stand on is an
advantage. A tractor of not less
than 23 drawbar h.p. will be
necessary to pull the device. For
a smaller tractor, width of the
grader can be reduced, but the
length should be retained as a
long implement makes a bettei
job of straddling depressions.
Levelling of rough ground cuts
out dry knobs and wet holes and
makes hay- and grass-mowing
easier.
Beef-cattle Price-control.
“Oxo”: The Queensland beef-
cattle industry will have to tackle
the question of price-control.
Under the present set-up the
“BOO!”
breeder gets a satisfactory price
for his product but the fattener
is often in bother. Retail meat
prices are fixed, and this limits
the amount a fattener will re-
ceive for his finished product,
but supply and demand have no
respect for Government regula-
tions, and today a fattener is
often asked such a high price
when he wants to buy store
cattle that he is barely able to
make fattening pay. The usual
remedy in such cases is to ask
for a price increase, but this
could not cure the economic ills
from which the fatteners are suf-
fering.
Even if it could, the chief
beneficiary would, as always, be
the taxation revenue, and it is
time the industry took careful
stock of the position. When Sir
Henry Turner, of the British
Food Mission, was in Australia
last year he apparently was un-
able to reconcile the cattleman’s
complaints: (1) That present
prices were unpayable and (2)
that taxation was too high and
was killing incentive. The con-
sumer is paying a sufficiently
high price for his meat already,
and with trade-unions asking the
Government to do the impos-
sible —increase wages 30s. per
week and peg prices—any de-
mand for an increase in retail
prices is not likely to be granted.
The whole trouble is the in-
vidious position of the fattener.
When he has lush pastures, as at
present, he naturally wants to
derive income from his land, but,
when he wants to buy stores,
very high prices are asked, and
paid because the supply, mainly
the result of the 1946 drought in
the cattle areas, is not nearly
equal to the demand.
It is not easy to suggest a
remedy, but for the sake of the
industry some form of voluntary
control of store prices appears
to be necessary. Even if an in-
crease in the retail price of meat
were granted the price of stores
would increase proportionately,
and the dog would still be chas-
ing its own tail.
Save Our Soils!
“Agric”: Dr. Charles E.
Kellogg, chief of the Division of
Soil Survey, U.S. Department of
Agriculture, en route to New
Zealand to be chairman of the
soils-classification sessions at the
Seventh Pacific Science congress,
spent a few days in Queensland.
In an interview he said there
was probably sufficient soil in
the world to feed twice the
present population, provided that
soil was used well and full use
was made of scientific know-
ledge.
He pointed out that in some
areas the difficulties involved
were economic, political and
social and not fundamentally
physical and biological. In other
countries great areas of land
were not being farmed to any-
thing like the extent which was
possible, but the problem was
how to get scientific information
into the hands of often rather
simple people. Dr. Kellogg con-
siders there are four goals for
which we should work and which
can be reached only together:
(1) Efficient food production;
(2) resources (soil, water forestry,
etc.) conservation; (3) high
living standards for rural peoples
and (4) full use of the labor and
genius of farming peoples.
In recent years the idea had
become somewhat prevalent, he
said, that cattle could not grow
in warm countries, on account
of diseases and insect pests, such
as the tsetse fly in Africa, but in
the warmer parts of the U.S.A. ;
they had found that, given a
good ration, cattle beat disease
and insect pests.
We do not appear in Australia
to have taken full advantage of
the scientific information on soils
which America must have
accumulated in the past half-
century, as it is only compara-
tively recently that we have come
to appreciate the value of soil-
conservation and erosion-pre-
vention. One of the soil
problems on which Dr. Kellogg
and his colleagues were em-
ployed was improving the soils
in the southern parts of the
States to enable production of
livestock to be stepped up. These
soils were originally forest
country, with practically no
good native grasses, they were
low in nutrients, easily eroded;
and cotton-growing had made
the position worse. Good grasses
had to be introduced and bred,
education was necessary to teach
the small cotton-farmers, animal
diseases and internal parasites
had to be beaten, and they even
had to learn how to fertilise
grasses with the right proportion
of phosphorus, potassium, borax,
etc.
Leaking Tanks.
“Nerida”: Keep cement damp
for several days after using it to
reinforce rusted iron tanks. A
proprietary line of cement-paint
and mortar can be obtained, but
the home-mixed varieties are
effective and cheaper. If the
tank has small holes only a
coat or two of paint will pre-
vent leakage. The method is to
take a gallon of boiled oil and
mix cement with it to the con-
sistency of thick cream. Stir
constantly while painting and
apply as quickly as possible.
Badly-rusted tanks should be
emptied, scrubbed and dried and
plastered with cement on the in-
side. A netting frame should be
used to hold the cement, which
is applied with a trowel. One
part of cement to two parts of
clean sand should be mixed with
water to a soft “dough” for this
coat, and it should be from lin.
to 2in. in thickness. An out-
side coat applied with a fine
netting support is an added rein-
forcement.
“Artificial Manures.”
“H.A.L.”: When anyone re-
fers to superphosphate as an
“artificial” manure (B. 5/l/’49)
any practical farmer or agricul-
tural scientist can place him at
once. Phosphorus is indispens-
able to plant or animal growth;
the old way of supplying it was
to bury bones where the crop
was being grown. This was fol-
lowed by the obvious improve-
ment of first crushing or grind-
ing the bones, and then came
treating the crushed bones with
sulphuric-acid before they were
applied to the soil to make the


THE RABBITS,
So far, 347 men, 23 women and
14 children, including nine rabbit-
inspectors, 34 trappers, a Balt im-
migrant and two policemen, have
sent in articles on the current
rabbit plague ranging from 85 to
3000 words. ‘Every possible and
impossible method of destroying
rabbits has arrived; everybody
from the Prime Minister to the
U.S. hat » manufacturer has
been blamed; three rabbits have
been accused of biting people.
In addition every city daily news-
paper and pretty well every
country sheet is having a say
about them. THE BULLETIN
knows full well that the rabbits
are no joke, but if a tenth of
what is said and written about
them was translated into action,
individual and collective, private
and governmental, they would
lose their importance next week.
"Phenovi*" Worm Remedy
..eta®
l#
ftIP
.. //& £ p/vperji?
Crows fly high, wide and hungry from the property
THE NEW “PHENOVIS” POWDER
■jlr Mixes easily.
Forms a stable fluid sus-
pension.
Flows easily through any
drenching gun.
Ensures the most accurate
dosing of stock.
where drenching is
done with the NEW
improved “Phenovis”,
the effective gastro-
intestinal worm
remedy in powder
form.
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS : GRAZCOS and WILCOX MOFFLIN LTD.
H 2-12
INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in Hong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £9,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O'Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BWBI3I (3 lines). C. R. CORNWELL, Manager.
TILLEY LAMPS
Regd.
BURN ORDINARY KEROSENE
THE MODERN FORM OF PORTABLE LIGHTING
mm
mm
ill
■
m
m
n
■
9 .:
'
m
u
m
m I
>. 11
m
H
■am*
I H
I
It
■ ■
■
as •
i.
; \ y :; -
1
fca?; mm, ■ * • I
m—m mmm BsaSS
m
....
1948 Exhibition British Industries Fair
THE TILLEY LAMP COMPANY LTD
OF ENGLAND
London Offices and Showrooms:
33 SACKVILLE STREET, PICCADILLY, W.l.
Australian Representatives:
T. H. BENTLEY, Pty. Ltd.,
123-125, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.I.
phosphorus in them at once
available to plants instead of
leaving the minute traces of acid
in the soil to do the job. This
acid-treated crushed bone was
marketed as “bone superphos-
phate.”
The world’s supply of old
bones being incapable of supply-
ing the ever-expanding needs of
agriculture, the shortage was
made good by utilising deposits
of rock-phosphate. Ages ago
huge cronies of sea-birds
roosted and nested upon coral
islands; their droppings formed
a thick layer of guano. Rain dis-
solved the phosphorus from this
and carried it into the porous
coral below, where it combined
with the calcium (lime) of the
rock to form a compound insol-
uble in water. In this way nature
stored up in some of her trea-
sure-houses, for the future use
of mankind, something of
greater value than all our hoards
of gold. Today we mine that
phosphate rock, crush it, turn it
into a compound soluble in
water with the aid of sulphuric-
acid ; and as super, it is used to
correct the deficiency of phos-
phorus in soils. What’s “arti-
ficial” about it?
Trace Elements.
“Hal”: Plants and stock
prove or disprove the soundness
of land-management. If
phosphorus is taken from the
soil by crops or animals and is
not replaced then soil-fertility
sinks steadily and is revealed in
poorer and poorer crops or ever-
lessening capacity to carry stock.
Start replacing the phosphorus
and the trend is at once reversed.
Exactly the same thing holds if
you make good the deficiency of
available lime in a soil. One of
the great differences between
human beings and livestock is
that the minds of the former
can be influenced by what they
read, be it correct or false,
whereas the bodies of animals
respond only to what they eat,
and they cannot be improved in
growth, health, meat, milk or
wool production fallacious
soil treatment.
Application to the soil of
missing trace elements in the
form of copper, cobalt, zinc,
molybdenum, etc., is merely
going one step further than
supplying the missing phos-
phorus. The real artificial
manures, which can do harm, do
not make good a deficiency of
some vital elements, as do the
manures proper, but merely
make it easier for plants to take
from the soil what little is left.
The probable reason why few
people have yet read anything
concerning the importance of
trace elements in overseas pub-
lications is that Australian re-
search work is sometimes ahead
of the rest of the'world. This
is especially true of agricultural
science since the Waite Institute
was founded. In due course
references to the importance of
trace elements in the soils will
appear in the overseas journals.
Saving the Netting.
“Nerida”: Where netting has
been trampled by stock, over-
grown by weeds or buried by
flood or sandstorms it can be
renovated with little trouble and
small cost by a home-made lift-
ing-jack invented by Hedley
Buzza, of Stanhope (Vic.). The
appliance can be made by any-
one used to small blacksmith-
ing jobs.
It consists of a wooden foot-
piece 3ft. x 3in. x liin. with a
ljin. slot cut down the centre
for 18in. from one end. Holes
to take a fin. bolt are drilled at
intervals of 2in., sin. and 9in.
across the slot. The bolts are
to support the fence-lifting lever,
a sft. piece of 3in. by lin.
In the end of the lever is a
9in. double-pronged hook at
right-angles to it. The down-
wire is attached to the hook, the
lever slotted according to posi-
tion, the foot-piece provides the
fulcrum, the wire is levered up
and tied to the previously-
strained supporting-wire.
Goats in Demand 1 .
“Longjon”: The high medi-
cinal value of goat’s milk for
children and adult invalids, and
the relative ease with which goats
can be kept, have made them so
popular that they are almost as
hard to obtain as wire-netting.
There is an active market for
milking goats in Sydney, New-
castle, Wollongong and far-
western N.S.W. In Melbourne
their milk is double the price of
cow’s milk and very hard to get.
To encourage breeding of
good milking goats N.S.W. De-
partment of Agriculture has set
up studs of Saanen and Toggen-
burg goats at Condobolin Ex-
periment Farm.
There was a Saanen stud at
Nyngan Experiment Farm, but it
was disbanded when the farm
was closed before the recent war.
In 1944 the department recom-
mended this stud at Condobolin
by buying back several of the
old Nyngan Saanen blood-lines.
In addition some recently-
imported Saanens and Toggen-
burgs have been added to the
studs.
Hints for the Farm.
“Myrr”: Victorian Depart-
ment of Agriculture’s ant bait:
Sodium arsenite 12gns., honey
Boz., water loz. Keep it away
from children. Mound ants?
Punch a hole in the centre of
the mound, pour in loz. of car-
bon bisulphide and cover the
hole with a wet bag.
“Sarin a”: U.S. poultry-
farmers have their smaller
poultry-houses mounted on
runners so that a tractor may be
used to drag them away from
contaminated ground when in-
fectious diseases appear amongst
the birds. It helps prevent the
spread of infection.
“Billjim”: Air-dusting of lin-
seed crops threatened by cut-
worms in south-east S.A. was
100 p.c. effective. Following the
experiment, new to that part,
crops are expected to yield six
to eight bags to the acre.
“Nubis”: Rain-Water “col-
lected in an earthenware bowl”
is not suitable for topping-up
batteries. All rainwater con-
tains impurities, such as common
salt, nitrates, ammonia and
dust, which cause internal shorts,
decreasing the life of the bat-
tery.
“Bill C.”: Though they’re
usually better flavored when
ripened on the plants, tomatoes
may be picked and ripened after
they have reached the whitish
stage. They ripen quickest in
airtight tins stored in a warm
place. The stalks should be re-
moved to prevent pricking of the
fruits, and the sweat should be
wiped from them daily as they
ripen.
“Ognop”: Fifty years of ex-
perimenting with all descriptions
of sealers and solvents has con-
vinced me that the best way to
prepare smoke-blackened walls
for paint, kalsomine, white-
wash, etc., is to brush them over
with a mixture of cow-manure
and water. The newer the
manure the better. Use only
sufficient water to make the
solution workable. Allow to dry
thoroughly, brush off cleanly
and the walls will be ready for
painting.
“Big Billy”: To minimise
flock losses due to intestinal
parasites S.A. Department of
Agriculture urges this routine:
Drench all sheep in autumn and
spring, autumn drench of ewes
five or six weeks before lamb-
ing; drench lambs at weaning-
time ; change sheep immediately
after drenching on to pasture
which has not been grazed for
21 to 28 days ; rotate grazing by
leaving sheep in paddock for
only seven to 10 days and then
leaving it for 21 to 28 days.
Phenothiazine drenches, though
expensive, are most effective.
“Kawalla”: Coiled wire, or
cable, especially when new, per-
sistently kinks when being un-
wound. Straightening the
snarled sections only results in
an impossible tangle. The
remedy is simple. Taking the
coil in the left hand, remove
outside loops with the right
hand. Then when the inevitable
twist occurs transfer coil to right
hand and remove loops with left
hand.
“Myrr”: Select for incuba-
tion only normal-shaped eggs,
smooth in shell and weighing
not less than 2oz. They are
best put down within seven days
of laying. Examine each egg
under a strong light projected
from an electric globe through
an opening slightly smaller than
an egg cut in a closed box.
Look for small airspace, yolk in
the centre of the egg, thick
white, absence of bloodspots, a
smooth shell free of cracks.
“Mark”: A poultry-farmer
seves his greens—thistles, grasses
or cultivated wheat or oats —by
tying them in sheaves and sus-
pending them from a low bar.
The fowls can then pick among
the greens, but cannot scratch
and scatter them —a big con-
sideration when greens are
scarce.


o<;
%i*
GEM
RAZOR
For stiff beards you must have a strong
heavy weight blade that will stand up to
punishment and come back for more.
Gem double life blades are of surgical steel,
heavy and keen enough to make light work of
the toughest whiskers.
A complete Gem set
costs only 3/- and
comprises a Gem Razor
and two Gem double life
blades in a serviceable
Bakelite box. Take one
home today.
?o.
r r
T*
. AVQIO'&O
'
THE BETTER
SPORTS TROUSER
V
/
i
i
iPD
O
/35
torsYrtsP
THE BRAND
WITH A PEDIGREE.
•V ¥¥:
m
Xysi :jr : v
HI
\y^j
tu
SELF-SUPPORTING
SPORTS TROUSERS
No Elastic to pucker or perish
ANOTHER DEPENDABLE TOP DOG PRODUCT
Missing Friend.
GAWLER, FREDERICK—Son of Henry
and Christian Gawler, late of Burnley.
Victoria. Any person knowing the wneie
abouts of Frederick Gawler please com
municate with THE TRUSTEES
EOUTORS & AGENCY CO., LTD.,
Collins Street, Melbourne.
Scum
GIOBITE
TRAVEL CASES
They're lighter, stronger, longer-
lasting. That's why a Globite
costs less In the long run.
Made by
FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
m
RED INDIANS AND ABORIGINALS
By "COL M.”
TT is well over 100 years since
James Fenimore Cooper—
still perpetuated in occasional
movies, country Schools of
Arts and other inheritors of the
classics —wrote his best-seller
The Last of the Mohicans.
The last of ’em —that’s what
he thought. At any rate, a re-
cent United States Government
official compilation, though it
doesn’t specifically mention the
Mohicans, has this to say on
those living Indians who evi-
dently prefer the Land of Dol-
lars to the fabled happy hunt-
ing-grounds of their ancestors:
“All the famous tribes known
to people throughout the world
from the works of James Feni-
more Cooper and other writers
of stories about early America
are represented in the present
Indian population.”
Cherokees, Chocktaws, Kicka-
poos, Shaw,nees, Blackfeet,
Cheyennes, Chippewas, Sioux
and the rest of them —no doubt
Mohicans among them —are not
only well and truly still in the
land of the living; they’re
actually increasing in numbers,
and they’re doing it at a most
remarkable rate.
In 1875—24 years after Feni-
more himself went to the happy
hunting-ground the United
States held only 275,000 sur-
vivors of the scalping-knife,
Paleface bootleg and other lethal
agencies. Probably even Rip-
ley might find it incredible, but,
nevertheless, it’s true that today
there are 400,000 of them.
Moreover —and this is the
complete staggerer —“they are
actually increasing in numbers
at a faster rate than the rest of
the United States population.”
And how are our opposite
numbers to them* the abo-
riginals, getting on? Well, such
official figures as can be
gathered run something to this
effect! —-
The 150,000 full-blooded abos
that were on deck when Phillip
arrived have fallen to fewer
than 50,000.
In the various States Abo-
rigines Welfare Boards annually
call upon Consolidated Revenue
for £240,000 —a figure that they
have managed to raise by
£lOO,OOO in a battle lasting 20
years. Out of that sum they
have to supply wages, relief,
house-building programmes, edu-
cation, so that by the time they
get down to medical benefits,
which if the abo. is to survive
is probably the most important
of the Jot, the kitty itself is be-
ginning to look rather sick.
From it they manage a free-
medicine scheme for all needy
natives. On every abo. station
they run a dispensary and a
treatment-room staffed, either by
a trained nurse or a person
“with some experience in medi-
cal care.” Serious cases are
conveyed to the nearest public
hospital, where, the report ends,
“they are treated on the same
basis as white people.”
Obviously on a far better fis-
cal wicket is the United States'
body which tends to the medical
needs of those flourishing des-
cendants of Sitting Bull and
squaw, threatening to outlast
James Fenimore Cooper in ever-
increasing numbers.
Known as the “Indian Ser-
vice,” this department operates
67 hospitals in the United States
and seven in Alaska, all placed
near the centres of heaviest
Indian population. They aver-
age from six to eight beds per
1000 of Indian population, while
there are only about four beds
per 1000 population for the
country as a whole. One hos-
pital in the State of Washington
is among the finest of its size in
the country.
A specific medical example of
their work is the smiting of
trachoma, an infectious disease
of the eyes which up to 1939
afflicted, sometimes blinding,
one-quarter of all Indians. Less
than a twentieth of them have
it today.
The Indian Service finds work
easier since it began training
Indians themselves for medical
jobs and so providing ideal
liaison-officers between the doc-
tors and their Indian patients.
One tribe has established its own
Board of Health.
Today the abo.’s future looks
sombre. If some rules laid
down by a high personage back
in 1788 had been followed things
might have been a lot better.
Captain Phillip then had a letter
from his Sovereign which might
have been the answer to it all:
You are to endeavor by every pos-
sible means to open an intercourse
with the natives, and conciliate their
affections, enjoining all our subjects
to live in amity with them; and if
any of our subjects should wantonly
destroy them or give them any un-
necessary interruption in the exercise
of their several occupations it is our
will and pleasure that you do cause
such offenders to be brought to pun-
ishment according to the degree of the
offence.
The American success in keep-
ing the braves, squaws and
papooses going strong might
even at this late day be an in-
spiration to Australia’s various
Governments concerned with the
aboriginal question.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor.
J. 8.: It doesn’t quite fulfil the
promise of the first two stanzas....
G. 5.0.: Stumbles W.J.W.: It has
its points M.H.D.: Do you really
see fallen trees as “monarchs de-
posed” or is it only that a thousand
writers before you have described
them as such? L.O’D.: Too
pedestrian for such an equestrian sub-
ject as “Banjo” Paterson... .D.R.P.:
Pleasing in a modest way R.1.K.:
Not this time... .E. 8.: Two lines,
then, of your heartfelt ode to a
potato:
Oh, little brown body-building vegetable
Ne’er have I enjoyed you as much as to-
• day.
S.E.P. : We’ve seen a lot worse.
L.P.: The customary sunset
poem... .E.O’D.: Unfinished, but
there’s feeling in it....A.G. le M.:
Off our beat R.U.G.: “I wrote
this in a tearing hurry.” Well, tear
it 8.V.5.: You’ll feel better now
you’ve got “The Bee” out of your
bonnet T.R.L.: “I think it is, at
least, unusual.” Brother, it’s incredible.
L.I.: The thought, like the paper,
is muddy V.Y.: Chuck it
P.0.D.: “Do you charge a fee for
reading poems like this?” No; not
even for poems like that.... Bellerive:
In pensive mood:
R.E.L.: Your characters drop
too many aitches, and you drop too
many stitches... .M.N.: When you
say you are sending “a piece of
prose” you probably mean verse,
but anyhow it’s indescribable
G.Y.: “Fred fell out the window.’
Let him stay there J.0.P.: Sympa-
thise with the pain expressed in the
covering letter; you should sympa-
thise with us for reading the other en-
closures G.V.O’C,: It appears to
have been written at midnight with a
hayrake 0.Z.: While we cannot
control the rabbit plague we can at
least restrain poetic comments on it.
Yours should be trapped at once....
H.Y.: No home here for that lost
dog... .R.O.MacL.: About as mel-
odious as a haggis B.B.: Tut....
L.P.: You can’t rhyme “steam-
hammer” with “Friday,” you know.
L.A.: It goes on and on and on;
till finally it goes out A.A.N.: If
Peggy is all you say she is she’ll
probably forgive you for the poem.
C.A.F.: You have a genuine
feeling for nature and almost none for
metre,.. .P.R.: Promising if you’re
young W.Q.: Come again, but not
with such a tormented 50u1...-
E.N.8.: What, rabbits!... .F.J.A.:
Your milkman’s love affairs are weak
and watery... .0.1.: Write about
what you know Uncle Pete: Our
circulation among nephews is too
limited....W.V.: You should score
with a daily V.A.L.: If that is
what inspecting the Archibald Pnze
does to you, you should never loot
at anything more inflammatory than
a seed-catalogue... .T.U.: Milton and
mush... .Y.L.G.: “Where can I post
it to find a really appreciative audi-
ence?” Ever thought of posting it to
yourself . ...L.M.: Agatha is un-
bearable... .F.E.: A plague on your
rabbits!
WILLIAM GAY.
(Scholarly Invalid Poet, Bendigo, Vic-
toria, died 1898.)
Fine sonnets he wrote
Till he’s suffering did cease
In the gardens of rest
He slumbers in peace.
A scholarly poet was
Poor William Gay
Who was sadly destined
To pass early away/


4* #*£
\
m
0 fry®.
A tfii
%2'i
?4V X
-a.
Q®*
m.
■■S2& qp 3
s*s«m manufa.CTw***
& perrw
•,,•• . %*.iiCZ
*<?*«««*. £kss<a^£>
■
iiM?
*«**»««■*(,•><!
■Wfc
mm
■ ■
m
; £v.:
LEA & PERRINS
■/kmoud JlJoicedtefaSifc Sauce.
•n;::lS33s»
IP*
£
'Vt
- m
1
w \
w
RENKUT
HAND PUMP
fiLfi STM IT
eyuytm&i/ c^afauJek
What’s the value of a tyre gauge? If it isn’t
accurate, it’s wort.iless. It it is accurate—and made
to stay accurate —it’s worth every penny of its cost.
That’s the Kismet for you . . . truthful every time
. . . which means a properly balanced car, comfort-
able to ride in, safe and easy to drive.
AND what price a Foot Pump? Or a Hand Pump?
Just ask your Garage Man to let you try a Kismet.
See how easily its double-cylinder action inflates a
tyre! Then examine it closely .. . note the fine,
solid Sheffield workmanship.
You’ll never grudge the little more you pay for a
Kismet product. It eorfies back to you in extra years
of real service.
KISMET
MASTER
FOOT PUMP
KISMET
TYRE GAUGE
Made by William Turner (Kismet), Ltd.,
Sheffield, England.
Representative in Australiai
Mr. E. G. Jones, 43-49 Hardware St., Melbourne, C.l, Victoria. G.P.O. Box 71.
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“Man, 50, desires friendship
genuine woman, in strict confidence.”
—Suburban paper.
No masculine females con-
sidered.
4* 4* 4*
“Postwoman lost on rounds, short
brown coat, Monday.”
—Suburban paper.
Have they tried whistling for
her?
4* 4* 4*
“Now, at twelve, the dentist can t
find any cavities in any tooth.”
— Woman’s mag.
He’s too young to be looking
down in the mouth, anyway,
“Lindfield. Wanted help, light
duties, few hours each week. £lO/-.”
—Suburban paper.
Week-end rates?
4* 4* 4*
“Hollywood film actress Arline
Judge has married her sixth hus-
band.”—“s. M. Herald.»
Still another Judge’s Asso-
ciate.
“The champion liar of the world,
for the first time since 1929, was
not an American.” — Sydney “D.T.”
Well, one chap at least did his
best to confer the honor on an
Australian.
4* 4* 4*
“The violin has changed its shape
for the first time since 1557.”
—Melbourne “Age.”
Innovators are fiddling about
with it.
4* 4* 4*
“Commission to sit on eggs?”
—Melbourne “Herald.”
A lot of “cackling” without
any hatching?
4* 4* 4*
“Why must silver cups be given as
prizes for so many things?”
—“New Idea."
Most of us need brass more
urgently.
IT
“The bride and bridegroom leave
today by air for Melbourne, where
they will make their home, while Mr.
Crosbie held her four-tier tulle veil.”
—“S. M. Herald.”
A hold-up of materials during
building operations.
•J*
“It would be far better, if these
visitors spoke a cherry word.”
—“New Idea.”
Thus making their visits more
fruitful.
4* 4*
“Any plan to produce the ‘Silent
Milkman’ will depend largely on the
co-operation of those to whom milk
is delivered.” — “S. M. Herald.”
Measure for measure.
The Rivals.
“You can pick out actors by the
glazed look that comes into their eyes
when the conversation wanders away
from themselves.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
Don’t blame the man of many
parts
Who flaunts his prowess in the
arts
Of elocution and the stage,
Especially if he’s the rage
Of stall and circle and the
crowd.
He’s simply bound to be en-
dowed
With more than normal love of
self
And value notice more than pelf.
Nor is he lone in this respect,
For any watcher can detect
A love of notoriety
That cannot find satiety
In one whose outlook egotistic
(!To use a label euphemistic )
Is such that he, the great “I am,”
Sees I to I with any “ham.”
D. H. E.
Misunderstood.
“A Bristol butcher, arrested for
brandishing a meat-saw and a carving-
knife on High-street, said he was just
waving to a friend.”
In defence, accused said he
had no intention of stealing the
car. He had got into it to ad-
mire the gold inlay work on the
dashboard, being himself an
ardent collector of Persian fili-
gree. It was while taking a wax
impression of one of the knobs
that he was horrified to find the
engine running, and in his agi-
tation he had accidentally
thrown in the clutch. His action
in grasping the steering-wheel
had been an honest endeavor to
protect the public from the
danger of a car out of control.
The sudden increase in speed
on hearing the police-car’s siren
was made in a spirit of pure
fun —he thought for a moment
he was back in Devon shire-
street having billycart races.
The bag of assorted jewellery
beside him on the seat had come
from a shop-window which he
had the misfortune to break with
his elbow while dodging a little
“Since my wives left me I find this model rather large.”
girl bowling a hoop. He had
taken the precaution of remov-
ing the valuables in case inno-
cent passers-by should be
tempted to do wrong.
The loaded revolver in his
hip pocket, accused explained,
was being taken to show
to his little crippled nephew, a
child with a scientific turn of
mind who was beginning the
study of ballistics.
Remarking that accused was
obviously a much-maligned man
who would undoubtedly suffer
exploitation by reason of his
high integrity if left at large un-
protected, the judge arranged for
him to undertake a five-year
course of practical work in
penology. *
PLUM.
Geo-logical.
“Britain’s miners searched for
fossils while they broke coal-produc-
tion records.” — “Sunday Telegraph."
The British miner may be proud
To help a scientific cause
While digging fuel for the crowd
And breaking records without
pause.
And yet he’d simply raise a
laugh
From miners here who hew
pur coal;
They throttle down their pace
by half
Instead of chasing any goal.
A ware that such a record speed
Would merely raise a Commo
storm,
Neglecting scientific need
They wait until the fossils
form.
BERT.
More Strange Happenings.
“The milking-machine belonging to
a Tarcutta (N.S.W.) dairyfarmer, the
mysterious conduct of which had died
down, has again flared up and has
been hurling its plates around.”
A Ghost Train which first in-
trigued the residents of Bathurst
(N.S.W.), where it is stated to
have been built, has allegedly
been careering all over the
Commonwealth for the past two
years. Known in Canberra as
the Golden Age Express, it ap-
parently rushes around in circles,
though its driver, according to
Molongloside gossip, claims that
it is getting somewhere. The
only persons who declare they
have seen it are a few Trades
Hall officials, and even these ad-
mit that the smoke belching
from it might have been coming
from the driver’s celebrated
pipe.
According to legend, when the
driver pulls the cord a ghostly
wisp of steam shoots up, but the
strangest thing is that the whistle
cannot be heard by anyone but
the driver, due possibly to a
supersonic pitch to which his
ears alone of nearly 8,000,000
people are perfectly attuned.
There has, however, been heard
by every taxpayer an ear-
splitting, clanking clatter, and
this is thought to have been
caused by the Ghost Train hav-
ing jumped the rails, with its
octagonal wheels bumping over
the 40-hour-week sleepers and
the go-slow permanent-way.
Specialists in the construction
of political Ghost Trains such as
this are convinced that the
driver, who is also fireman, chief
mechanical engineer, porter,
signalman, stationmaster, ticket-
clerk, fettler, guard, Chief Com-
missioner and officer-in-charge
of complaints, will try to
strengthen it to carry a bumper
crowd of suckers on his great
Election Excursion towards the
end of the year.
An inflating machine, specially
built by the firm of Caucus Pty.,
Ltd., to a futuristic design by a
panel of experts in this type of
machine from Marx House, has
lately been performing strangely
in every capital city where it has
been installed.
The principle of the mechan-
ism is beautifully simple. When-
ever a coin of a shilling or mul-
tiples thereof is dropped into the
slot marked Basic-wage Increase
it causes a bellows inside it to
inflate a microscopic picture
titled Prosperity Valley into a
wonderful landscape which may
be viewed three-dimensionally
through rose-colored glasses by
the worker - patrons of the
machine. However, every time
a worker has dropped the coin
in and glued his eyes to the open-
ing in anticipation he has had to
leap back in alarm as a large
Cost-of-living Spiral has shot
out of the machine, zoomed up
and quickly disappeared into the
stratosphere. The Marx House
designers and Caucus Pty., Ltd.,
claim that this latter phenome-
non is merely an optical illu-
sion, due to the dastardly
machinations of certain anti-
working-class elements who aim
to discredit the workers’ true
friends. Despite the fact *hat
the machine is constantly oiled
with the best molasses, the
greater the number of coins
dropped in the bigger are the
spirals shot out of it. The
makers, in view of the necessity
of answering several vital ques-
tions on these flying spirals to-
wards the end of the year, are
expected to set up a committee
to inquire into the machine’s
peculiar behavior, and their re-
port is expected to be ready for
pigeonholing within a few
months.
The mysterious actions of a
small mechanical bird of most
bizarre plumage, the creation of
an eccentric inventor from
Barton (N.S.W.), has been caus-
ing concern to the inventor’s
associates of late. The bird,
which wears horn-rimmed specs
as a tribute to its inventor,
has developed the queer habit
during its constant inter-
national migrations of changing
its plumage in mid - flight.
Another characteristic is that
when directed to fly to its sup-
posed owners, the Department
of External Affairs, to get its
orders, the Foreign Policy bird
makes, like a homing pigeon,
straight for the headquarters of
the Waterside Workers’ Federa-
tion. But the most mysterious
thing about it is that, despite, or
because of, all its inventor can
do the bird’s most solemn pro-
nouncements are accorded by
the public not the serious respect
which the inventor hoped but
uproarious laughter. The proud
inventor has so far resisted the
importunate pleadings of his
friends to fit it with a silencer.
Bo.
Delayed Reward.
In far-back nobler days Ms.P.,
Whose way now out of date
is,
Ne’er thrust a hand out for a
fee ;
They served the people gratis.
Migrating to this continent
From Dumfries, Dublin,
Devon,
They proved too good for Par-
liament — V
And so they’re now in
heaven.
Brian Bureau.
Some Consolation.
“I have no faith in the belief that
all my troubles are blessings in dis-
guise.”—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
Down with the pessimistic
bloke
Who cannot see the good in
all
And feels in duty bound to
croak
If horses lose or markets fall!
I know too much to curse my
luck
If small investments chance to
fail,
And count it foolishness to
buck
Against a loss made on a sale.
Such optimism is clearly wise
Since, though my purse in
volume lacks,
It is a blessing in disguise,
For there is less for Chif to
tax.
ED.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Conservatism
At no time since the Liberal party
succeeded the U.A.P. five or six years ago
has it entirely rung true as the voice of
those Australians who do not necessarily
desire sweeping changes through the
whole range of living. The Liberal party
would have better served its ends had it
come straight out as a Conservative
party, which it really is, rather than as
the Liberal party it really isn’t.
With the cracks along the frontier of
Liberal-C.P. co-operation, it cannot be
said that the Liberal party faces an elec-
tion year with undivided optimism ; and
some of its doubts reside in the field be-
tween liberalism and conservatism, or
rather the uncertainty bred in conserva-
tive minds by the quasi-Liberal hypo-
thesis.
It is a strange thing that the name
“Conservative” has always been avoided
by Australian political parties of the
Right, even though of the old parties it
is the one which stands strongest and
squarest in British politics today. When
there is no Conservative party a Liberal
party is a contradiction in terms, in that
it hypothecates a struggle against an un-
bending Right, which, in does not
exist because the Liberal party is co-
equal with the Right; is, in fact, the
Conservative party.
Behind all this shadow-play—im-
portant in that it touches on what many
conservatively-minded people are con-
fusedly thinking—lies the so-far com-
plete failure of any Australian political
leader to state the case for conservatism.
Mr. Menzies has stated a case for
liberalism eloquently enough, yet he has
never quite carried conviction, simply be-
cause the more liberalism he preaches
the closer he gets to the conservative
flank of the Labor party; therefore, the
very lack of definition in the Liberal
viewpoint in fact helps to reinforce
Labor. Complete conviction will only
come into non-Labor politics when the
case for the conservative view is stated
bluntly and courageously.
In a changing world it is all the more
important that the fundamental thesis of
the conservative view of life should be
restated and fought for. It is no longer
dangerous to advocate the abandonment
of anything. Peel took his life in his
hands when he abolished the Corn Laws ;
the rotten boroughs were abolished in
1832 against a background of riot. But
today there is an ample hearing for the
man who wants to abolish something, to
change something, to reform something, to
alter something; to do, in fact, anything
but give faithful performance to the nor-
mal requirements of an established tradi-
tion.
The case for conservatism —not the
hidebound conservatism which cannot
accept the idea of change at all, but the
intelligent functional conservatism which
refuses to abandon the established until
the novel is convincingly and reasonably
proven—lies rooted in the thought that if
untold centuries of human experience
have tended to produce certain institu-
tions and certain ways of life, there must
be something worth while in them if only
because they have endured.
Modern life is the product of a rich
and varied past during which many
divergences from the main stream of
growth were tried and sloughed. It does
not indeed follow that under the test of
modern scientific thought all these things
which have lasted should last for all
time; but the point is that they should
not lightly, irrationally or irresponsibly
be set aside.
There lies the role of the conservative
in politics; the man who stands at the
crossroads pointing not only to the future
but also back to the past. The place of
the reformer, the man of change, is just
as essential; but no man and no party
can be all things. If the Liberal party
tried less to be all things to all electors,
but took its stand squarely at those cross-
roads its election chances would be
rather better.— Dee (Q.).
The World’s Food
' Last May Sir John Boyd Orr, then
Director of U.N.O. Food and Agri-
cultural Organisation, gave an urgent
warning to the world on the food situa-
tion. He stressed that soil-erosion was
reported everywhere in the world and
that, on this point, “Governments were
not interested.” Now his successor has
stated that the next harvest will determine
whether the people of many countries
will eat or die, naming India, Pakistan,
China and the Near East as the neediest
areas. The only surplus in sight would
come mainly from the U.S.A. and a little
from Australia and Canada.
In regard to Australia’s contribution,
additional exports expected from recent
good rains will be controlled by how
much the rabbits eat. With little or no
netting or fumigants, it is impossible to
control the pest. Thanks to our slipshod
farming methods, the rain took away
thousands of tons of good soil, a loss we
recognise as preventable even if very
little is done about it. The area deterior-
ating because of sheet erosion west of
the Darling is increasing.
We cannot supply the world’s larder,
which will be empty for a long time, but
we should be making a more determined
effort to minimise losses caused by rabbits
and erosion. An effective U.N.O. should
be able to arrange that netting and all
other things necessary to fight agricul-
tural pests should be free of dollar re-
strictions. It is 151 years since Malthus
began to preach that population tended
to outrun food supply. If that theory
is correct the continued loss of produc-
tive land will hasten the day of world
starvation. — Noonamah (N.S.W-)-
Rabbits
Our Socialist Government, which
allowed a few Communists to close the
largest netting works in Australia in 1945,
is now becoming concerned because the
countryside is crawling with rabbits.
Pastures boards are regularly issuing
batches of summonses and graziers are
even advertising for obsolete poison-carts
—as skins now fetch only 6d. per pound
rabbiters are not interested. For want of
netting few boundary fences are rabbit-
proof. When a landholder poisons his
property his unkilled rabbits scuttle into
his neighbors’ paddocks for a few days.
If an inspector happens along it is a
“bluey” for his neighbors.
The trouble has largely come about
through electing two “Governments”
which haven’t the guts to govern. They
allowed a handful of Communists
to pull out the key workers from
the netting factory. Communists found
other jobs for the strikers. To help
Chifley win the elections the Corns called
off the strike in 1946. That move fooled
the electors, but the key workers refused
to return to their old jobs and the netting
works are still closed.
At Gundagai (N.S.W.), where several
soldier-settlers have recently taken over
“Sorry to disturb you, gentlemen, but could We have a little more steam ?”
blocks, rabbits are so bad that “at dusk
they swarm in myriads over the roads,
crawl up fence-posts, and even surmount
wire-netting.”
The Federal Government has issued
import licences for 104,214 rolls of nett-
ing, mostly from Belgium and Germany.
This will cost over £8 per 100 yd. rolls
of 42 x \\ x 17. The local price is £3
Os. 5d., plus ss. surcharge. Such is the
high cost of “Labor” feebleness. The
rolls on order represent less than half a
roll for each landholder. —F. D. (N.S.W.).
As a stock-inspector and one-time
rabbit-inspector, I’ve had 40 years’ ex-
perience of rabbits and their ways, and
I claim that there is only one way of
combating the pests. Holdings must be
securely netted in, subdivided by netting
fences, and warrens and other harbors
must be destroyed.
Netting is the thing we need most
urgently, and at present it is both short
in supply and high in price. There has,
in fact, been only one period during
which netting has been available in un-
limited quantity and at a low price. In
the 1880’s and early 1890’s great quan-
tities of it were imported, and it was then
that the bulk of Australia’s netting was
erected. Needless to say, much of this
is now worn and badly in need of repair.
Too much stress cannot be laid on the
need for netting—it is wanted on farms
and pastoral properties, for netting-in
crops, gardens and orchard lands, and
for keeping out the dingo as well.
Poisoning and fumigating are at best
only temporary measures in rabbit-con-
trol ; in fact, they are useless unless fol-
lowed up by netting and the destruction
of warrens and harbors. Poisoning has
done great harm in the past by killing-
off thousands of birds and much live-
stock. Fumigating does not always kill
all the rabbits that are in their burrows,
and often many others that are outside
at the time of fumigation are frightened
away, running into adjacent country
unless there is netting to stos them.
If the Government really wants to
help the man on the land, cocky as well
as squatter, it will import netting duty-
free from every possible source. Further,
it will ensure its sale at a low,price until
Australia is capable of producing enough
of it. — Rabbiter (N.S.W.).
[At a rough estimate, the O.F.M. page
has received more letters about rabbits
than there are rabbits. These have been
referred to “The Man on the Land,” who,
after contemplating the pile of MSS,
has given up his suburban cottage and
taken a seventh-floor flat at King’s Cross.]
Natural Flying Sense
A trained airman’s natural sense of
direction is one of his best assets, even
though “Luke” and “Minto” (B.
8/12/’4B) seem to think that natural
“homing” is a joke.
This “sense” was shared by many in
the R.A.A.F. towards the end of the war.
It takes years to cultivate and is as effi-
cient night or day, but for some un-
known reason seems “shaky” at first and
last light.
The basic requirement is a thorough
knowledge of landmarks such as rivers,
hills and the general terrain of the earth.
That is only obtained through regular,
consistent and observant flying.
The natural sense is not used until one
is hopelessly lost. From rough checks
of course taken, time spent in the air and
petrol consumed, a rough mental D.R.
(dead-reckoning) position is noted and a
course reset to a known area. Height
is a great asset provided visibility is good,
and frequently, when placed in this pre-
dicament, I have gone through the drill
and been safe in less than 30 minutes.
A first need is to watch your petrol-
gauge and don’t let it get too low. Plenty
of juice is another great asset. Once you
are lost you are lost and further flying
without rechecking course leads to
danger.
Night-time is almost as easy even when
the moon is down. During storms it is
difficult. The main thing is to get under
the clouds and stay just high enough to
have some visibility.
This natural sense has worked satis-
factorily in Cape York Peninsula and
the barren Gulf country (challenged by
“Minto”), although I must admit that I
knew this country as well as any other
section of the continent.
Many airmen may doubt the claim-
others will support it. Our pioneer air-
men had this sense and used it well,
Kingsford Smith said it was his second-
best compass.— Waddlin' Willie (Vic.).
Taxation
A partnership of four people has re-
ceived its balance-sheet and estimate of
tax due thereon for 1947-48. The
partners had a run of good seasons with
high yjfool and sheep prices until this
drought year, when wool was sold and
netted £20,000.
The drought persisted, and as demand
for sheep was good they were sold for
£1 16s. a head. As the sheep were entered
on the books at a value of 6s. the sale of
20,000 showed a profit of £30,000.
So for the year’s operations for income-
tax purposes" the net profit totalled
£50,000. The, estimated tax is £30,000,
leaving a working-capital balance of
£20,000.
The drought has not broken yet, but
the problem of restocking has to be
solved. It is proposed to buy 10,000 ewes
for which the estimated price will be
£3 per head. That’s £30,000, and when
£6OOO is added as the cost of running the
sheep for 12 months their total cost at
next shearing will be £36,000. Capital in
hand is £20,000, so there will have to be
an overdraft of £16,000 with interest at
5 } per cent. (£840).
Here is an instance of drought being
met and disaster to stock avoided by a
combination of luck, good prices and
good management, only to have all the
good work completely frustrated by Mr.
Chifley, who has so arranged his imposts
that a business may make a profit in one
year of £50,000, pay no dividend, but
must instead go looking for £16,000 fresh
capital before next year’s operations can
be started. — Hadley Propstino (Q.).
Native Labor
How times change! “Lim-Limbu (B.
5/1/’49) says commercial firms are eager
to pay recruiters £l6 per native for a
one-year contract.
They did things much more cheaply
than that in the past. In 1946, when I
had a native-labor compound in
Papua, it was my duty to meet recruit-
ing boats returning with labor, take the
“boys” to the compound and then allocate
them to the departments most needing
them. On many occasions I found dis-
crepancies between the lists of “boys ’ and
those actually received. Investigation on
each occasion found them working for
private firms in the neighboring town.
After rescuing the “boys” and bringing
them back to the camp I found that if a
boat got in earlier than expected and the
officer from the compound was not on
the spot the commercial firms just “kid-
napped” the “boys” by offering them
higher wages than "the Government. As a
result, they got their labor cheaply witn
no recruiting or transport fees. It was
a good racket while it lasted. Another
result was that the Administration was
forced to raise the minimum wage for
unskilled labor from 15s. to £1 per
month. , . ,
Still, I will agree with “L.-L.” that Ad-
ministration handling of the natives is
not all it could be. Under the native-
labor ordinance certain standards oj
housing were set down and demanded
from firms which the Administration
ignored in its own compounds. Momo-
kan (Q.).
Government Accounts
So Mr. Dedman is arranging for a
panel of accountants to study a German
system of uniform accounting in in-
dustry. It is devised to reduce costs and
promote efficiency. If there is such a
system business firms will not need a
shove from the Government to instal it.
Where something of the kind is needed
is in the Federal and State Public Ser-
vices, and the panel should be instructed
to include these bookkeeping systems
with the industrial. Only those who work
in the Public Service know how hard it
is to get approval for the installation of
improved accounts and records forms.
Even “R.A.8.” (B. 5/1/’49), who was
justified in challenging the sweeping ac-
cusation of rudeness against public ser-
vants, must admit that the present over-
staffing contributes to mediocrity, if not
to outright inefficiency.
The whole public-service system of
accounts-recording needs overhauling by
a panel of accountants with Parliamen-
tary and preferably Ministerial experi-
ence. Governed as it is by Parliamentary
appropriations, the accounting of public
moneys calls for a somewhat different
procedure from that of the commercial
world. Public accountants such as A. W-
Fadden, J. A. J. Hunter and E. S.
Spooner have the necessary experience in
both systems. Parliamentary service will
not give any insight into the details of
public-service bookkeeping procedure,
but trained accountants conversant with
the legislative side of Parliamentary con-
trol of the public purse could assess the
essential and superfluous entries in the
system.— Maxstoke (Q.).


Manus
The Manus affair has blown over now,
but it has left a lot of debris behind—
more than 20 miles of it —stretching along
the north-east coast of this lonely equa-
torial island. The full story of the
abandonment of the great base may be-
come clearer as time goes on ; but the
outline seems plain enough now. As told,
it does little enough credit to the intel-
ligence of Australia’s present politicians.
Manus, in its day, was a second Pearl
Harbor, and a close second at that. Time
has shown that the only essential dif-
ference between them is that Pearl
Harbor is permanent. Pearl Harbor to-
day is a living and vital thing, the main
outer bastion of America’s Pacific defence
system, whereas Manus, which might
have played the same role for Australia,
is little more than an empty city of
deteriorating Quonset huts.
The whole story of the Manus base
covers little more than four years. Uncle
Sam’s first shock-troopers fought their
way ashore at Momote on February 29,
1944, and the last of his tailenders left the
island in May, 1948. That was the lifetime
of a base whose thousands of buildings,
ranging in size from sentry-boxes to
paddock-size storehouses, could, and at
times did, accommodate 150,000 men.
The mountainous, heavily-jungled, 700-
square-mile island of Manus is the main
member of the Admiralty Group, a “hem
and-chicken” cluster 370 miles north-west
of Rabaul and 200 miles off New
Guinea’s north coast. Its geographical
position determined its choice as supply-
base and starting-point for the great
drives against the Japanese in the East
Indies and the Philippines. Though this
was its primary war-time function, it has
an obvious permanent value as the
guardian of the gateway to Eastern Aus-
tralia and the South-West Pacific. Today,
that gateway is wide open. The men who
might have guarded it have gone. Only
the silent buildings remain.
The base was sited mainly on the
shores and reef-islands of Seeadler
Harbor, a huge expanse whose eastern
and better-protected half is cradled be-
tween the north-east coast of Manus and
the western coast of Los Negros, which is
itself only a flat bow-shaped extension
of Manus, projecting eastward from the
main island and then swinging away to
the north-west in a long narrow strip.
The two islands are separated only bv
a narrow bridgeable passage. The build-
ings and installations lay in jungle-
surrounded patches all round the eastern
half of Seeadler Harbor, from Lugos on
the mainland to Mokarang on the north-
west tip of Los Negros. The main naval
area was on Manus itself, while the two
big airports were Mokarang (heavy
bombers) and near-by Momote (fighters).
All parts of the base, except the installa-
tions on the reef-islands protecting the
harbor seaward, were connected by a
first-class 25-mile road.
Considering the isolation of the
Admiralty Group, before the war only a
quiet copra-producing Pacific backwater
supporting about 40 Europeans and
13,000 natives, the scale and nature of the
military installation in this previously
almost unknown group seems incredible.
Manus had everything—first-class air-
fields, docks, repair-shops and workshops
that could handle anything used in the
Pacific war, huge deep-water jetties,
enormous military stores, machinery of
every imaginable type. Amenities for
troops were on a grand scale. On one
occasion—the launching of the Philippines
invasion—there were 800 ships gathered in
Seeadler Harbor, and Momote and
Mokarang were in their heyday two of the
busiest airstrips in the world. It was a
big show/ and, except for a couple of
R.A.A.F. and R.N.Z.A.F. squadrons, it
was 100 per cent. American. Now it is
gone, and the protection it could have
afforded Australia has been thrown away,
because, on the face of it, Australia’s poli-
ticians did not have the sense to know
when they were on a good thing.
The Americans, on their departure, dis-
posed of the huge quantity of fine
machinery and equipment by removing
it themselves, by destroying it, or by sell-
ing it. Chief buyers were a couple of
international private concerns and the
Commonwealth Government. Much of
the stuff acquired by the Commonwealth
has deteriorated through neglect and ex-
posure, as instanced by the scores of
motor landing-craft rotting in the man-
groves of Loniu Passage. The equatorial
climate, with its 120 in. to 150 in. annual
rainfall, has no mercy on man-made
materials. The roads still in use are for
the most part in a shocking condition.
Nevertheless, Manus is to figure in
Australia’s defence set-up, perhaps in con-
junction with Britain. A few R.A.A.F.
and R.A.N. at Momote are keeping the
airport open, and plans are said to be
forward for an eventual establishment of
several hundred or even a few thousand
men. Even taking the most optimistic
view, that is not enough to hold a large-
scale attack. As the Pacific war abund-
antly proved, isolated insufficient gar-
risons invite disaster.
Manus today still shows a few sparks
of life. There are the handful of service
people at Momote, and there is the Ad :
ministration at Lorengau, the “capital,”
where, apart from the issuing of ukases
and the filling-in of forms, the principal
activity is provided by 40 Balts and Poles
from Works and Housing pulling down
Quonsets. Most of Manus’s over-all white
population of under 100 is one way or
another on the Government payroll.
There are 20 administrative officials to-
day in place of the pre-war seven, and
one planting concern. in place of the
former nine—a picture, in this respect,
that might be drawn of many parts of
New Guinea.
From a purely defence outlook at least,
Manus inspires regret for the past rather
than confidence in the future. —K. A. S.
(N.G.).
Queensland
Queensland today is making greater
profits from the land than ever before,
but, like Binghi, is enjoying the feast
while it lasts and with no thought for
the morrow.
The Queensland wool-cheque is bigger
than it has ever been, but the money has
come to town and the spenders are .flock-
ing along Queen-street.
What of the shorn sheep? Already
7,000,000 of our 24,000,000 have
died and the rain has missed half our
grass-land. Twelve months of drought
have just gone by, the old sheep in
Central Queensland have died, so, though
the young ones have each cut a
fleece worth from £1 10s. to £2, it’s
no wonder that the squatters’ wives have
come to town sick of the battle ; sick of
hanging over a hot stove in a sweltering
kitchen with the furniture covered with
dust and the garden lawn a foot high
because there is nobody to cut it.
The “Courier-Mail” reported on Jan.
12: “Two New State Wool Records in
a Million Sale.” On the same page the
Premier of the State was reported as pay-
ing he was anxious to remedy the labor
shortage in the building and allied trades
and would press for a further allocation
of migrants.
The building trade! We do not need
more buildings in town. In 1922 the
average number of people living in the
Brisbane houses was four; today the
average is three.
Instead of bricks for homes in Bris-
bane, Queensland wants a railway from
Cunnamulla to Bourke ; a railway from
Blackall to Charleville ; new sheep- and
cattle-trucks and new locomotives. With
those Queensland would not be down
7,000,000 sheep growing wool worth
£10,000,000, as they could have been
shifted from Central Queensland to
Southern Queensland. Instead, they just
died. — Hadley Propsting (Q.).
Discipline
Remarks on the discretionary applica-
tion of discipline by New Zealand’s
Governor-General to Duntroon gradu-
ates might also be heeded by senior
officers of all Services. Such matters are
of vital concern. Naval experience often
showed a deplorable lack of psychological
understanding.
Service discipline may be administered
by two methods —by a hidebound
adherence to a scale of punishments
(rarely effective), or by the exercise of
officers’ personalities and their ability to
understand men’s characters.
The scale of punishments in King’s
Regulations and Admiralty Instructions is
less severe than when first introduced,
but more effective means of correction
have often been administered by wise
C.Os.
An instruction contained in K.R. and
A.I. is that the punishment meted out
should be just sufficient to act as a
deterrent to further malpractices. It is
not intended for the wreaking of ven-
geance. This is not always observed even
by senior officers. One rating run-in by
a shore patrol for wearing his cap “flat
aback” was returned to his ship together
with a patrol report. Being a good type
his C.O. admonished him and awarded
him a minor punishment. On this being
known to the senior officer of the port,
he told the C.O. that a much more severe
punishment had been merited and that,
as a result of the light punishment, more
of the ship’s company would be put on
shore-patrol duty, thus fomenting dis-
like of Service methods among men
wholly unconcerned with the trivial
default.
Some novel punishments were intro-
duced into the Naval Service by temporary
officers. Realising what things irk Jack
the most, one compelled church attend-
ance as an alternative to a blotted copy-
book ; another introduced “loss of
amenities” —no beer ration ; no picture-
shows ; no swimming. In a tropical shore
base this hurt. The scheme worked and
made men law-abiding. Ratings pre-
ferred it because conduct-sheets remained
unblemished.
An important duty of officers is to
make men ready for emergencies ; ready
to obey and to follow without question
as to the leaders’ abilities. Officers who
rule by personality and example receive
unswerving allegiance at such times.
There is an inverse disparity between
punishments for personnel of upper and
lower decks. A rating may be publicly
mustered at the defaulters’ table for re-
turning on board under the influence of
liquor. The next night he may be on
gangway duty when the officer con-
cerned mounts the gangway “carrying a
load.” The latter is likely to get away
with it, or, at worst, have his wine bill
stopped for a month, with none but the
C.O. aware of it. Officers, who should
know better, should not abuse privileges
of rank by taking advantage of this dis-
parity.
In view of the present-day difficulty in
attracting recruits, Service authorities
might well act upon General Freyberg’s
comments. —T. S. (N.S.W.).
Root of the Matter
The attitude of workers today results
from a natural swing' of the pendulum. I
was present and heard the first chairman
of directors of a nqw-old-established gas
co. tell a meeting of employees that the
working man had no right to roast-
beef. He also considered that men
should not be employed after reach-
ing 45, as they were not then capable
of doing a good day’s work.— Carlyle
(Vic.).
Those who believe that the law of
supply and demand is better than price-
fixing should examine the rabbit position.
Rabbits have never been as thick in the
country as they are today, but I just had
to pay Is. Bd. for a rabbit in a ham-and-
beef shop, and that was minus his skin.
It’s a ridiculous position when a pest in
the country is a luxury in the city.—
W. P. T. (N.S.W.).
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 2
(cryptic type.)
Across.
I—Stone a research worker’s little
quarters with a flower. (9)
s—Married in this manner and did
the preliminary work for the next
crop. (5)
B—Applied a foment to the chicken
from the refrigerator. (9)
10— Keen member of the Victorian
Parliament? (5)
11 — Regretting that I telephoned about
it. (5)
12— Transport to the marsh overturns
a floating obstruction in the river.
(9)
14— Also. (3)
15— This creed gives pleasant direction.
(6)
16— The employer sure has altered. (4)
20— Drain turns us to a Parliamen-
tarian. (4)
21— Bends over the flagons. (6)
22 Meadow. (3)
24 —A big billiard score by the Long
Bay champion? (4, 5)
26—Had a shot at first-class medicine
as a university subject. (5)
27 Mother-of-pearl is carried by
crane. (5)
28 Plenty take part in a waltz for
long-haired women who keep
their hair on in a ball? (9)
29—Wounds from crude metal in the
steamer. (5)
30 A higher anthropoid than these
does some training. (9)
(Solution in next issue.)
Down.
1 — Careless speakers often drop them
like sea-going gangsters. (9)
2 Not in favor of left heroine of
the ancient classics who allows
one to touch one. (8)
3 Credit the little fastener with a
digit in noughts and crosses.
(4, 4, 3)
4 Such politics make moderate
people blue. (3)
5 Just the vehicle in which to go to
the south with Lady Olivier. (6)
6 West Australian horse and a
town in N.S.W. (5)
7 The complaints of a housewife
whose husband is hard on the
hose. (5)
9 —Regular sporting ability of the
varsity. (7)
13 —Place a prohibition on a former
Lord Mayor of Sydney and put
a match to the battlefield. (11)
17 — Scottish man who follows the
individualistic performance of a
noted British pianist. (7)
18 — Scrutinise the apparel to put a
new direction on the envelope. (9)
1° —I spread malicious stories about
this insular fellow. (8)
23 —This woman of holy orders mar-
ries a sailor to Queen Elizabeth.
(6)
24 — Tiny cells that determine the
hereditary character of Eugene
Goossens and. Eugene O’Neill. (5)
25 — Film , stars try to capture this one-
time ''king of Sweden and Nor-
way. (5)
28 —Limb. (3)
SOLUTION TO CROSSWORD No. 1.


To Meet Australia! Industrial Needs
MW!®
a
“MARS”
PRECISION MACHINE TOOLS
for Immediate or Early Delivery
The
“CRAFTSMAN”
Scinch Lathe
The “MARS”
Plain Miller
(At right )
■■ - '
M
rs
11
ill
. f
MI
■
mm
ggggn LJ
The “HERCULES” sfinch Lathe the little
GIANT of the lathe world. With removable
Gap Bridge. (Above)
m
**f.*~s .rasH i *
m
* •
VE ■
:
Manufacturers of
“Mars” Diesel
Engines
The “MARS” No. 4 Full
Universal Milling Machine
the ONLY universal
milling machine made in
Australia. (Above)
Licensed Manufacturers in Queensland
of
MEEHANITE IRONS
i
*@ 8
IKS
m
t
U_^=
QBL as\ .
ii
vr
\ -^L
*->y
r)>
ft. 11
U I
/ _
i /
i <rl
p IT
0 1
/ t-
Distinctive Features of all
“MARS” PRECISION MACHINE TOOLS
ACCURACY . . . Built to recognized
and certified standards of accuracy.
BALANCE. . . All necessary revolv-
ing parts are Dynamically Balanced.
FINISH . . . All surfaces are Machine
Ground. MATERIALS . . . Finest
Matured High Test Alloy Castings
throughout. SMOOTH RUNNING
. . . All Gear Teeth are generated.
VERSATILITY ... All lathes have
generous Detachable Gap Bridge.
“MARS” Lathe Lead Screws are cut
from a certified and tested Master
Lead Screw.
mfm
■
!; ; v ■ I Sr**?'*
■ ■ ■■ ■ >'
The “MARS”
Speed Shaper for all classes of
Shaping work, {Above)
fds
fds
f
The“APOLLO”
7-inch Lathe with
Removable Gap
Bridge. (At left )
The “MARS”
6-inch Lathe. For
accurate work at
high speed.
(Below)
HR
The “MARS”
High-Speed
Planing Machine
Mm*
m®.
a
*1 § |
:•• •>:
The “MARS”
10-inch Heavy-
Duty, High-Speed
Engine Lathe.
\
•%:# » 1 s
Wfg.
' ' A
mm
i ; :.
*-? v -to -
i ® i
DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
N.S.W.: Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty. Ltd., Sydney. VIC.: Herbert Osborne,
Engineer, 567-9 Little Bourke St. (near King St.), Melbourne, C.l. S.A.:
M. S. McLeod Ltd., Adelaide. W.A.: The Western Machinery Co. Ltd., Perth.
TAS.: Charles Davis Ltd., Hobart. CALCUTTA: Ross Neil & Sons, Chow-
ringhee Rd. BOMBAY PROVINCE: R. S. Mehta & Co. Ltd., Fort Bombay.
MADRAS, MYSORE, COCHIN AND PUDDUKKOTTAI: Australasian Trading
Co. (India) Ltd. HONG KONG AND SHANGHAI: The East Asiatic Co. Ltd.
m
3. & O’S. Advt.
