

GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
A PRODUCT OF THE
WS
SiKg
SOIJ
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
The Bulletin
"The Bulletin,” Vol. 70—No. 3614
Wednesday, May 18, 1949
Price 6d.
Registered at the General. Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W.-, Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
“Where the
River Shannon Flows,”
Stands Limerick’s
St. Mary’s
| IMERICK, the third largest city in
Eire, stands on the bank of the River
Shannon and combines the attractions of
a historic capital with the advantages of
a centre of modern enterprise. Of Danish
origin and, like most seaports of Ireland,
was taken by Brian Bora when he
assumed the overlordship of Munster,
and thus it became the capital of Munster
kings.
A strong fortress was built here by
King John (1199-1216), who entrusted it
to the stewardship of William de Burgh.
In 1316 the city was occupied by Edward
Bruce, and in the Civil War it sustained
two sieges, that of 1641 when it was
taken by the Irish, and that of 1651 when
Hugh O’Neill held out for six months
against Ireton, who died here of the
plague in the same year.
The most famous siege of Limerick
was, however, that of 1690, when it was
unsuccessfully assaulted by William III
with 26,000 men, and it was during this
siege that Patrick Sarsfield, the greatest
and most unselfish of Ireland’s heroes,
rose to fame in blowing up the siege train
and later arranging an honourable peace.
One of the many ancient and historic
buildings in Limerick is St. Mary’s
Cathedral, pictured here, which was
founded in 1179 by Donald O’Brien,
though altered and restored many times
in succeeding years. The fine square
tower and the parapet battlemented in
the Irish style are the most prominent ex-
terior features of the building.
Among the many interesting monu-
ments to be seen within the cathedral are
the tombs of the Earls of Limerick, and
the chancel is the elaborate polychrome
monument of Donough O’Brien, Earl of
Thomond (d. 1624). The choir is notable
for its old carved misericords, a rare
feature in an Irish church, and its ancient
tombs, including that of the founder who
died in 1194.
From the 120 foot tower there is an
extensive view of Limerick, the Shannon
valley and the surrounding hills.
(Photo Courtesy Irish Tourist Assn., Inc.)


df
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne ;
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name ..
My Address
S.B. 149
AQE
The Red Page
FROM SLAVES TO COCOA.
A few years ago, a book published
under the rather repellent title Let The
Great Story Be Told based some stirring
accounts of the establishment of several
British colonies on the theme that Britain
had not deliberately set out to create an
Empire, but had been dragged into colony
after colony in the wake of her adven-
turous merchants: and this might also
be the theme of W. E. F. Ward’s A
History of the Gold Coast (Allen and
Unwin).
And if blood and old battles and the
sweat and tears of good men and bad
men and the sufferings of more than a
million negroes sold into slavery can
have a humorous side, then this story is
not without humor.
First discovered and worked by the
Portuguese for its gold early in the
fifteenth century, the Gold Coast soon
replaced gold with the more human
values of the slave trade. In the middle
of the seventeenth century, the Dutch
expelled the Portuguese and took over
their forts; the Swedes built forts on the
coast in 1652, and were driven out by
Danes in 1657 ; the English, who had
been vaguely interested in the place since
1553, or perhaps as early as 1480, formed
the Company of Royal Adventurers of
England Trading to Africa in 1662, and
built a series of forts with headquarters
at Cape Coast:
It was estimated that between 1680 and
1700 the Royal African Company exported
140.000 slaves, and interlopers exported
160.000 more. Between 1700 and 1786, the
island of Jamaica alone received 610,000
slaves from all sources. At the end of that
period, the annual slave trade was estimated
at 38,000 British, 20,000 French, 10,000
Portuguese, 4000 Dutch and 2000 Danish;
74.000 in all. There were 192 British ships
employed in the slave trade in the year 1770.
One slave in every eight died at sea, and
two more died within a few months of their
arrival in the plantations Not all these
vast numbers came, of course, from the
Gold Coast.
So when, in 1807, the British Govern-
ment abolished the slave trade it was, as
Mr. Ward says, “a heavy blow to the
economic system of the country,” because
the negroes were in the slave trade too,
and tribes would go to war, in the early
days, to take prisoners who could be sold
as slaves:
There existed a vast organisation of
wholesale dealers, brokers, depots for the
collection of slaves. The slave trade
was a trade in which the small man could
share. The purchasing power of the people
depended on it. Petty chiefs could sell into
slavery people who lost their cases in their
courts and could not pay their fines.
Ordinary citizens could sell their debtors,
and could kidnap passing strangers and sell
them. Not only European fortunes, but
African fortunes, were founded on the slave
trade.
The British turned to organising and
encouraging agriculture, and sold the
Africans a good deal of Manchester
cotton. But there was less and less in it
for the Danes and the Dutch. Britain
bought out the Danes in 1850 and the
Dutch forts in 1872, and in 1874 pro-
claimed the Gold Coast a British colony.
So there, after some two or three cen-
turies, the British stood alone, on soil
soaked with the blood of four or five
nations, and much more black blood,
with little to gain and the heavily
increasing responsibility of government
and education which the world was put-
ting on custodians of native populations.
It looked as if virtue would have to be
its own reward.
t Then, two years later, “an Accra man,
one Tete Kwashi,” brought some cocoa
beans from the islands of Fernando Po
and San Thomd;
The first export of cocoa beans was made
in 1891; ten years later this had risen, to
536 tons, and the export of cocoa rapidly
increased. The cocoa industry is remark-
able for being almost entirely a peasant
industry; the average cocoa farm is only
2i to 61 acres. The crop proved immensely
popular and extremely profitable. By 1935
the Gold Coast was supplying half the
world’s consumption of cocoa.
These strange ups-and-downs of com-
merce are matched by a strange history.
The European traders occupied some
forty forts along the coast, and when
their Governments were at war the Euro-
peans fought among themselves, as will
be seen from the condensed histories of
the forts in the appendix:
23. Cape Coast Castle. Built by the
Swedes in 1652, taken by the Danes in
1659, by the local people, the Fetu, in
1660, possibly by the Dutch in 1661, and
by the English in 1662. Taken by the
Dutch in 1663, but retaken by Holmes in
1664, and (alone among the English
possessions) held against de Ruyter in the
following year.
But the main battle was against the
natives. The early traders paid rent to
the tribes on whose ground they built
their forts; but this did not secure them
against attack and murder. The coastal
negroes were shrewd. In 1844, a slave
trader persuaded some Keta men to
rescue some slaves whom the Danish
.authorities, who had outlawed slavery in
1792, had taken from him and were
holding at Fort Prinzenstein. The Danes
killed the Keta chief and burnt his house,
and ip the ensuing war the Danes asked
the Anlo tribe to help them against the
Keta tribe.
For some reason the Anlo did not wish
to refuse, but they made a private agree-
ment with the Keta men to load the guns
on both sides with powder only, and at the
end of this bloodless warfare both sides
wefe to share the Danish subsidy. The
plan failed through the treachery or care-
lessness of some of the Keta men, who
fired with ball and killed some Anlo men.
Such trickery could never have been
expected from Britain’s main antagonist
in the Gold Coast, the great inland tribe,
or confederation, or empire, of Ashanti.
The Ashanti were real warriors and fine
statesmen. When they conquered other
tribes, they incorporated them into the
Ashanti group, requiring their men to
serve with the Ashanti armies. The
Ashanti expansion was met by the Fante,
a confederation of coastal tribes, but
after the three invasions of 1806, 1811
and 1814, the Fante was broken and put
under Ashanti governors.
The British, who might have acted as
mediators between the native States, had
bungled, and now they had to deal with
the full power of the Ashanti. A mission
to the Ashanti capital, Kumasi, produced
a treaty of which the Ashanti held one
copy and the British a different version;
misunderstanding followed misunder-
standing ; in 1821 the Gold Coast settle-
ments were taken over by the Crown
and placed under the Governor of Sierra
Leone; in 1822 the Governor, Sir
Charles Macarthy, arrived and, over the
body of a policeman who had been kid-
napped and murdered for abusing the
Asantehene, or Ashanti emperor, em-
barked on a war which ended with the
defeat of the Ashanti at Katamanso in
1826.
In this war, known to the natives as
Mankatasa, or Macarthy war, the British
captured the Notes which constituted the
lease of their forts. These Notes had
been captured by the Ashanti frpm the
coastal tribes, and it was a recognised
principle that the tribe which captured
the Notes was the tribe to which the rent
was paid. Thus, having captured their
own Notes in battle, the British were
thereafter able to live on the Gold Coa.st
rent-free.
Now that it was possible to get out
without seeming to be driven out by the
Ashanti, the British Government was
prepared to abandon the Gold Coast, but
the British merchants objected, and in
1830 Captain George Maclean was ap-
pointed Governor of the forts, roadsteads
and harbors of the Gold Coast. This one
man, fearless and just, with strictly
limited powers, soon built up a govern-
ment of the whole coastal area which
had no territorial basis except his own
character: tribal chiefs brought him their
disputes to settle, and although he had
no power to enforce his judgments out-
side the forts, “a chief who was inclined
to resist Maclean’s authority was always
opposed and blockaded by his neighbors,
and often disowned by his own people.”
As a result of Maclean’s efforts, eight
chiefs signed “The Bond of 1844,” which
had the effect of putting most of the
coastal tribes under British law, the
cornerstone of British government of the
Gold Coast.
These developments did not touch the
Ashanti, and in 1873 Sir Garnett
Wolseley was sent out to end the War of
the Kidnapped Missionaries with his cele-
brated dash to the Ashanti capital, where
no invaders had previously dared to
come, marching against the wet season.
This was the affair at which the Black
Watch distinguished itself in the final
sprint to Kumasi, “marching and fighting
for nearly twelve hours after a night
spent in grass huts under a torrential
rainstorm.”
Then there was the final war of 1900,
precipitated by the Governor’s (Sir
Frederic Hodgson), demand that the
Golden Stool, the sacred symbol of the
Ashanti, should be produced, so that he
could sit on it. Not even the Asantehene
could commit such sacrilege; the British
were besieged at their fort in Kumasi;
the siege was relieved; the rebels were
dealt with; and in 1902 Ashanti was
formally annexed by Britain.
Nowadays, the Gold Coast is governed
by a Legislative Council of six ex officio
members, six nominated members, and
eighteen elected members, of whom nine
are elected by the Provinces, four by the
Ashantis, and five by the municipalities.
Mr. Ward has made a most satisfying
job of this history, and these few extracts
cannot give an impression of the rich
intricacy of his accounts of tribes, per-
sonalities and campaigns. The amount
of history he has been able to give of
the negro tribes and their wars and
Governments is amazing; in his preface
he explains how he moved about among
the tribes, asking questions, and piecing
the answers into a reconstruction of tribal
history:
As a general rule Akan village traditions
go back at least to the time of Napoleon,
and any important town will have traditions
going back a hundred years earlier. The
traditions of the paramount chief of a big
State will usually take us back to the time
of Cromwell; and in a few cases we can
get isolated facts which must date from
Queen Elizabeth’s reign.
The result is to give the reader an
increased respect for the negroes and
their institutions, and especially for the
Ashanti, a very noble lot of savages.
McKeown on Insects.
Of all created things there is none so
difficult to love, with the possible ex-
ception of snakes and book-reviewers, as
the tribe of insects. They bite, they sting
and they crawl, and there really seems to
be no excuse for them. But Mr. Keith
C. McKeown, whose Nature in Aus-
tralia (Angus and Robertson) bears on
the jacket an appalling photograph of a
spider devouring a moth, looks upon in-
sects as lesser men look on lilies.
They are strange and beautiful to him ;
as he, in his capacity of admirer, must
be strange and beautiful to them; and
his book, in part, is strange and beautiful
to the reader. He writes with such sym-
pathy about, for instance, mother-love
in the scorpion—
The detested scorpion—a close relative
of the spiders—is also an exemplary mother
in the care of her young, which are born
alive, and carries them about, the pale little
creatures clinging to her back, wherever
she goes—
that, at a safe distance, one almost shares
his enthusiasm. And when, describing
the researches of the Austrian scientist
Dr. Karl von Frisch, he comes to the"
bee and tells how the scout-bee dances to
inform the hive where nectar may be
found in the forest, he becomes positively
Virgilian in his delight; and indeed,
though one would not doubt such autho-
rities, the story is quite tall enough to
have pleased Virgil, who thought that
bees were bred in bullocks:
Dr. von Frisch has described how the
successful forager attracts the attention of
other workers by dancing, different dances
meaning different things. Using glass-
fronted observation-hives, von Frisch dis-
covered that the bees performed regular
circling dances, and that these varied within
certain limits according to the nature and
direction of their find. A “round dance”
in small circles, either clockwise or anti-
clockwise, indicated that the feeding-place
was within fifty to a hundred yards from
the hive. Where the area of nectar-bearing
blossom was farther away, the bee, revolv-
ing on its own axis, made a half-circle in
one direction, returned to its starting-point,
and revolved in a half-circle in the other
direction, alternately back and forth. The
doctor claims also that the speed of the
dance varies with the distance Where
the food lies directly between the hive and
the sun, the bee dances in a vertical posi-
tion, head downwards; if to one side the
bee dances with its body at an angle from
the vertical corresponding with that between
a line drawn from the hive to the sun’s
position and that of the find. Other dances
appear to be executed to indicate a strike
of rich areas of pollen-bearing blossoms.
Though the present reviewer has har-
rowing memories of a Sunday-school
concert at which, at the age of four, he
impersonated a dancing bee, thereby an-
ticipating by many years the discoveries
of Dr. von Frisch, there would appear to
be new opportunities for ballet in
this theme. And while one has thus
travelled from bees to ballet and from
nectar to Virgil, it might be appropriate
to mention that Mr. McKeown has a mis-
quotation from Shelley on page 209 and
that on page 211 he describes Chesterton’s
poem about “the noselessness of man”
as “the old jingle.” Minor matters; but
poets, like redbacked spiders, are entitled
to reasonable consideration.
Nature in Australia is not, unfortu-
nately, entirely devoted to insects. Mr.
McKeown has already said much on that
subject in two memorable books, Insect
Wonders of Australia and Spider Wonders
of Australia. This time he is out to give
a general survey of the Australian earth
and its trees, its birds, its animals, its
rivers and their fish. This he does faith-
fully and, up to a point, well. He dis-
cusses soil erosion ; he describes the extra-
ordinary tameness of the birds on Lord
Howe Island before the rats destroyed
them; he lists the animals which the
white man has destroyed in Australia;
he is—from a fisherman’s point of view
—somewhat oversevere with the trout as
a destroyer of the native fish (and the
native insects); he defends the cormorant
from the customary charge of over-
indulgence in a fish diet; he relates the
battle of Mr. W. W. Froggatt against
the giant toad; he is interesting on the
fertility of mice.
There is a demand in schools and other
places, Mr. McKeown says, for such a
book. This should satisfy the demand well
enough, but in the importance of the
general survey one always misses the
fascination of the particular; and most
schoolboys, and most readers, will be
glad when Mr. McKeown gets off his
official subject and on to his own subject
of insects. Reading the book is rather
like being imprisoned in a classroom for
an hour with a blackboard decorated with
formidable graphs before one’s eyes and
a smell of chalk in one’s nostrils, but
with a lecturer who is continually hop-
ping out the window after assassin-bugs
or suddenly bursting into poetry like
“Romeo and Juliet” about the moonlit
love-life of the moth.
T. C. Roughley’s The Cult of the Gold-
fish kept company with Nature in Aus-
tralia in the post from Angus and Robert-
son, and should be mentioned with it in
this review. It is a reprint of the book
first published in 1933, revised and en-
larged, and in a very readable style it
tells you everything you should know
before attempting to share a flat with
a goldfish or imprisoning one in a pond
in the garden: what are the breeds of
goldfish, how they spawn and develop,
what they eat, what eats them, what
plants they like and how to grow the
plants. The only thing it does not tell
you is how to stop your goldfish from
eating Mr. McKeown’s insects; but per-
haps, on the sunny autumn afternoons,
one could gently read aloud to them sym-
pathetic passages from Nature in Aus-
tralia,
Seventeen Tiny Tortures.
The dust-cover of The Nightingales
Sing and other stories by Elizabeth Par-
sons (Hamish Hamilton) rightly suggests
that Miss Parsons is an American
Katherine Mansfield: as such she inherits
the strictures passed upon Katherine
Mansfield by T. S. Eliot in his study of
morbidity in literature, After Strange
Gods.
The art of these two writers consists
in showing you an exquisite vase and then
dropping it, or cutting open a perfect
apple so that you will see the worm in
it; their people and atmospheres are so
perfectly done that at first the vase seems
to drop by accident and the worm seems
to be necessary to the apple.
But as story succeeds story of Miss
Parsons’ 17 stories, the reader gradually
grows aware of a casual forearm edging
the vase off the shelf, or a worm being
put in just as the apple is sliced open, so
swiftly and so naturally that it looks as
though it had been there all the time.
The amateur detective will notice Miss
Parsons at work, breaking a man’s back
in the hunting field so that he will pro-
vide a companion-piece for a well-drawn
spendthrift wife ; knocking down an idiot
boy’s bicycle so that a smart-alec money-
grubber can be shown under-compensat-
ing the boy’s mother; giving a girl a
cheerful dinner with a happily-married
man while she is on the way to make an
unhappy marriage; and—a favorite
pastime—waking-up seemingly happy
wives to the fact that their lives are
futile, that they are only “Wedding
Cakes.”
Cottage Pie.
Pastures New, by Prynne Hutton
(Werner Laurie), is the experiences of a
city couple who managed to live in the
country.
Mrs. Hutton is no humorous com-
petitor of The Egg and 1; her quiet and
pleasantly-written reminiscences are really
practical lectures on how to remodel old
country places, and keep hens, goats, pigs,
dogs, cows; how to buy at village
auctions; how to make friends in the
village ; and how to keep house in the
country for two people on £1 10s. a week:
Butcher, Bs.; groceries, Bs.; bread, 25.;
coal, 55.; electricity, etc., 35.; cakes,
oranges, etc., 25.; fish, 2s. Total, £1 10s.
(sterling).
There are also recipes: Calico Pie,
Bacon Badger, and other ways of filling-
up husbands for next to nothing, and
although this book is English, it should
have the value to lonely housewives any-
where of a starting-point for imaginary
conversations —“Yes, we had a duck, too,
that bullied her brother; their uncle was
a black Orpington ” Mrs. Hutton is
well aware of the value of small-talk:
“Gossip is the salt that flavors our coun-
try life.”
The book is decorated by Seton Mc-
Connel with casual-looking pen-drawings
which show that nowadays Derain, he
reigneth every day.


TRUTH MIN ADVERTISING”
mom HOHEHS’
THE SENIOR STORE’
Let us renovate that leather coat
or jacket and return it looking
just like new.
Quotations gladly given.
Step out with confidence plus comfort in
Julius Marlow "Flexible” Shoes
ABOVE.
“Warwich”
Smart square-toe
Oxfords, in Tan or
Black Calf.
Flexible soles. 45/6.
“Bristol”
Shoes that are light and easy on the feet .
shoes that add the finishing touch
to your wardrobe
. . . JULIUS MARLOW . . .
a gentleman’s shoe.
■
m
•• B
H
Hi
I
1 !
11
k «’ WM
f "4' f
“Moccasin”
In Calf or Grained
Leather, with leather
or non-slip rubber
soles and heels. 45/6.
. -'4
HHH
l|li I
■
JKtk
Mt 'JbBHHHI
■
;
m
“Zebu
Derby”
“Moccasin” i
“Bristol”
Neatly stitched Oxford
with new swing toes,
snug heels.
Tan or Black Calf, 45/6.
Soft Black Kid, 49/6.
“Bristol Brogue”
In rich Tan Calf or
Black Box Calf with
stout soles, wide welts,
non-jarring heel cushions, 45/6
“Saxon”
Medium round toe Oxford
in Brown or Black Calf, 45/6.
Soft Black Glace Kid,
multiple sizes, 49/6.
“Bristol
Brogue”
m
ABOVE.
“Zebu Derb
With caps or plain toes,
imported “Scotch Zebu”
with leather soles, 59/6.
: : Ira
m
m
m
M
■
■
M
“Saxon”
MEN’S SHOES—GROUND FLOOR, GEORGE STREET. ’PHONE: M2lOl, DAY OR NIGHT; BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


The Bulletin
Vol. 70—No. 3614
Wednesday, May 18, 1949
THE “BULWARK.”
“The only bulwark between the people and economic chaos, or Communism, or anything else, is the Labor party."— Prime Minister Chifley.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H- K. Prior P. H, Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; 'Phone. 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
TWENTY YEARS AFTER.
It would be written on the Government’s
tombstone, if epitaphs of such deceased
were preserved in stone, that for eight
years it reigned superior to all challenge
and then, in “sheer cowardice” (Mr.
Chifley’s phrase), it was prepared to see
the Federal arbitration system destroyed,
and thus arranged its own decease.
Arbitration recovered from the bite ; the
dog it was that died.
That was the short story of the fall of
the Bruce-Page Government in 1929.
Now, in 1949, history is making ready to
enact its favorite role of repeating itself.
With the Chifley Government there are
some trifling changes of circumstances.
The Evatt Act replacing the Judges of
the Court with Conciliation Commis-
sioners was not, like Mr. Bruce’s Mari-
time Services Bill, a weapon turned dur-
ing its Parliamentary stages against its
authors. The failure to tackle the
wreckers in this day, 20 years afterwards,
has not even been tried and found too
difficult by a Ministry ageing and
wearied by its problems; rather the
failure in this “Labor” Ministry has been
a weakness from the start. But the effect
remains the same.
The Bruce Government then wished to
hand over arbitration jurisdiction to the
States entirely because the unions would
not recognise the principle—upon which
Mr. Attorney-General Latham (as he
then was) declared that Mr. Justice Hig-
gins’s nobly-formulated “New Province of
Law and Order” depended—that “those
who appeal to arbitration must comply
with its awards.” Union tactics then
were to exploit the overlapping of State
and Federal jurisdictions. Now the
Chifley Government, with eyes wide open
to the methods and objective of the Com-
munists, has allowed the whole basis of
respect for industrial authority of the
court to be undermined, has tacitly ad-
mitted a right to strike not only for some
industrial grievance but for subversive
political purposes, and has by political
intervention encouraged political strikes.
Mr. Bruce’s Attorney-General produced
legislation to discipline the outlaws, but
his Government abandoned it. The elec-
tions of 1929 supplied the penalty; those
of 1949 are approaching to do the same.
A Government too old and tired to up-
hold the authority of the law is due to
be scrapped by the people. “Labor” ap-
pealed effectually to this salutary correc-
tive during the 1929 elections, and the
unions wholeheartedly responded. The
unions are turning to self-defence now
in the same way, though less enthusiasti-
cally, for the offending Ministry is this
time one of their own party, and its
offence is the continuing tolerance of the
Communist wreckers.
It is the fashion with Mr. Chifley and
his Ministers to attribute latter-day in-
surgence in industry to bitter memories
among “the workers”—or jobless—of the
1930 depression. But the same destructive
campaign of the agents of Bolshevik
Russia was being carried on long before
the 1930 depression. Communist-led sea-
men’s strikes were the annual feature
then that coal strikes are now. In 1928
the watersiders and the timber-workers
were taking out of the community their
resentment against awards of the court,
and in July of that year the A.C.T.U.,
swayed by the Marxists, passed a resolu-
tion recommending all trade-unions to
take a referendum on a proposal that
they should cancel their registration with
the court. Thousands of pounds were
being levied on the unions to finance a
campaign to break down the court’s
awards in the specific cases. The
Bulletin of that day fastened especially
upon a speech by Mr. Theodore, dominat-
ing the political “Labor” party then as
Mr. Chifley does now, when he appeared
at the Sydney Town Hall to support a
protest against the prosecution of seven
men controlling an illegal strike which
had brought about violent collision with
the police. “What have the timber-
workers done,” asked Mr. Theodore,
“that they should be treated as criminals
and badgered and hounded by the police?
They are fighting a perfectly lawful battle
for the maintenance of hardly-won con-
ditions.” To which The Bulletin re-
plied : ,
The timber-workers have come into con-
flict with the police, as even Mr. Theodore
should be aware, not because they are
unwilling to work themselves, but because
they have abused and assaulted men who
desire to work and have dared to seek it
under a Federal award.
The Chifleys are already badly
frightened. They were frightened by the
repercussions of their invoking the Crimes
Act against Communist Sharkey, and
when a senior Conciliation Commissioner
set the Arbitration Court’s registrar in
action against Communist McPhillips and
McPhillips was sent to jail for a. month
the Communist campaign against arbitra-
tion opened in full force.
On April 7 secretary Wright, of the Sheet
Metal Workers, allegedly attacked the Con-
ciliation Commissioners contemptuously as
“dilutee judges.”
On April 11 the Coal Tribunal (Mr.
Gallagher) recommended to the Attorney-
General prosecution of Communist miners’
leaders for ordering a 24-hours stoppage
on the coalfields without warning and
without approval even of the Miners’
Council, simply on “request” by the Iron-
workers’ executive.
On May 5 the Communist miners*
executive, by resolution, demanded higher
pay and shorter hours, by May 19, under
threat of a general stoppage. It stated that
Arbitration Court decisions “are always
influenced by industrial strength and
political pressure.” Next day the same
body declared that arbitration (by the chief
judge of the Arbitration Court) in the
Kemeira tunnel award some weeks earlier
had “been inspired by bias and political
considerations,” that it would continue to
ban work on the tunnel as “black,” and
that “industrial action would follow any
attempt to use the ban to challenge the
federation anywhere in the mining
industry.”
On April 21 Mr. Justice Kirby of the
Stevedoring Industry Commission recom-
mended to Fuel and Shipping Minister
Ashley that Communists Hcaly and Roach,
executives of the Waterside Federation and
members of the commission by Govern-
ment appointment, should be sacked unless
they ceased counsels of disobedience which
were destroying the commission’s authority.
Healy replied publicly by attacking the
Arbitration Court as “putting politics”
into the McPhillips case.
Acting Attorney-General McKenna has
been since April 13 “investigating” (1) the
reference from the Coal Tribunal (above)
and (2) public statements made by Com-
munist Bird of the Seamen’s Union, in
Melbourne, that “the only'time any Judge
of the Arbitration Court is- in favor of the
workers is when he knows there is a strong
system of organised workers outside pre-
pared to struggle.”
In only one of these cases of concerted
defiance of the arbitration system by
Communist union bosses has the Chifley
Government attempted any counter-
action. Senator McKenna finds he can
do nothing about the Coal Tribunal’s
reference of the miners’ case. In the
Healy matter “Fixer” Ashley, like that
character in Artemus Ward’s story “The
Last of the Culkinses,” “bottled his
furious wrath for that night”—or rather,
for a fortnight—“and then at last un-
corked it and threatened all sorts of ven-
geance.” It remains to be seep whether
the Minister will follow the last of the
Culkinses in fighting an innocuous duel
and having to be dragged by his friends
from under his bed.
Meatnwhile, the mass of Australian
unions are not amused. An indignant
and increasing proportion of members,
in the Communist - bossed shows
especially, by no means share the Federal
A.L.P.’s dislike of court-conducted union
ballots as reflecting on unionists’ right
to run their own affairs. It is precisely in
order to get a chance to run their own
affairs and chuck the Communists out
that they want an impartial returning-
officer to receive the voting-papers from
their union elections.
The charge against political “Labor,”
however, involves much more than this
reluctance ovbr the conduct of ballots. It
is betraying the unions. The whole power
and prestige of the unions today spring
from the recognition of them in the
system of industrial law represented by
the Arbitration Court as responsible
organs in the operation of that law, and
as accepting Mr. Justice Higgins’s dictum
that “the King’s writ must run within the
factory as well as without.” They have
through the rule of this law become great
and wealthy and influential; without it
they can only be guerrilla bands in the
jungle. Astonishingly, political “Labor”
remains unmoved. Perhaps this reversion
to the jungle is considered a necessary
development before the Socialist Supreme
Economic Council can come to reign.
Words Without Deeds.
The violent events in China seem to be
having little impact on Canberra, where
the favorite weapon is the tongue and
where only eardrums get damaged during
war.
Yet if the Chifley Government’s
opinion of itself and its role in world
affairs is sincere, what is taking place
north of the equator should be of the
greatest concern on the Molonglo, and
Ministers should be busy trying to end
the conflict, forming plans for a new
China in which human rights will have
the force of law.
All members of the Ministry in Can-
berra, along with their backers in the
great Communist - run unions who
fathered the idea, seem to be satisfied
that Australia is in the Asian zone, and
that the concerns of Burma, Ceylon,
Indo-China and the “Indemesian com-
rades” are our special affairs, calling for
our counsel and advice, and to be kept
on a level keel with the frequent aid of
Australian political “planners.”
Australian emissaries, some of them
little known in any circle wider than that
of their own departments, hasten to Asia
whenever there is a conference or ’a
junket there to settle the affairs of Jog-
jakarta. Mr. Chifley has only just re-
turned from a conference in London in
which, according to a well-brigaded
Press, he was the “dominating” figure, and
which provided an expedient by which
India becomes a sort of Humpty-Dumpty
sitting on the wall between the British
and the Communist worlds, enjoying the
advantages of being British without
suffering any of the inconveniences inci-
dental to loyalty to the Crown, or bound
by any of the obligations which usually
go with imperial or commonwealth asso-
ciations. What the arrangement which
Mr. Chifley and his friends devised for
India seems to mean is that in any crisis
Mr. Nehru and his friends are in a posi-
tion to declare themselves free of
responsibility as part of the comity of
British nations, while at the same time
being in at the distribution of good things
when they are pffering.
It is always easy to be important and
“dominating” when nothing is immedi-
ately called for but the passing of reso-
lutions and the making of paper agree-
ments. The real test of the worth of
such arrangements, made in abundance in
the past three years of Socialist govern-
ment in Britain, Australia and New
Zealand, will come when some malign
foreign Power produces a challenge to
the strength and mutuality of the Com-
monwealth’s members.
It now seems that the pudding is about
to be put to the proof. Before long Mr.
Chifley and his followers, not to mention
the Indians, will have to demonstrate
whether they are really serious in accept-
ing obligations to keep the peace in Asia.
So far they and the kind of Australian
and Indian newspaper which takes its
tune from its Government department of
information have shown little signs of
recognising the practical responsibilities
which have been accepted along with
equality of nationhood in the Common-
wealth which the leaders of member-
States now hesitate to call “British.”
The British nations are faced with a
situation in which the Communist forces
in China, obviously Russian-armed and
beyond doubt Moscow-actuated and
-directed, are threatening to apply their
policy of throwing the white man out of
Asia, a policy which, if it is carried out
to a conclusion on the basis of Dr.
Eyatt’s and Mr. Calwell’s recognition of
our supposed inclusion in Asia, must em-
brace the throwing out of the white man,
or those white men who are not Com-
munist-approved, from Australia and New
Zealand.
The position of the British —which in-
cludes ourselves —in China is in danger.
Hong Kong is already directly chal-
lenged, as are Malaya and Burma. The
protection of these is as much the con-
cern of Australia, New Zealand and
India as it is of Britain. It is not only
Britain whose trade will be banned from
the Fair East if Hong Kong goes, not
only the United Kingdom whose shipping
will be driven from the China seas and
whose influence in Japan will cease to be
worth a shrivelled pea. Australia, New
Zealand and India are all involved, all
will be among the excluded unless they
are prepared to join the Communist bloc
—or fight.
Yet, while the “Empire” is supposedly
dead and the abhorred “Imperialism,”
which Communists have taught an essen-
tially republican Australian “Labor” party
and a Marxist-trained Nehru to hate,
“liquidated,” the old idea that those parts
of the Empire partnership which are, or
were, called “colonies” should be the
United Kingdom’s entire responsibility
has not perished. Though Hong Kong
and Malaya, with their ports and pro-
duction vital to us —apart from their
being essential to our world connections
through the air—are menaced, and fussy
newspapers are asking what Britain is
doing about it, nobody seems to have de-
manded to know what the Dominions are
doing about it.
What is Australia doing when her air-
link with the world is being weakened in
Malaya, and the only real base which she
owns for her trade in China is under
threat by a calculating aggressor? What
is Canberra doing about the loss of face
which the British Commonwealth is
suffering by reason of its Asian policy?
So far all Mr. Chifley has done is to
mumble that the U.S.S.R. “does not want
war with the United States” —he avoids
saying anything about Europe—“because
it is 30 years behind the United States in
industrial production, and it is no use
any country talking about war without
that capacity”—a matter in which the
Russians violently differ from him, since
Marshal Sokolovsky said on May 8 that
the “Soviet armed forces are the most
advanced and mightiest modem armed
forces.”
Mr. Chifley’s solution of Asia’s Com-
munist problems is that living standards
should be raised to a point at which all
the 1,000,000,000 Asians will b© so con-
tented that they will cease to be tempted
by the Kremlin’s doctrines —a piece of
sheer nonsense in the face of the facts
that the Communists are pouring through
China in armed floods and that Com-
munism flourishes like the bay-tree in
Australia, Mr. Ghifley’s own country, in
which life is easier and more superficially
prosperous than anywhere else in the
world.
Canberra says Australia will assist the
British in Hong Kong “if asked.” Mr.
Chifley was no more enthusiastic at the
time the Malayan murders were at their
worst. Yet if our place in the British
Commonwealth is based on a practical
agreement and not merely on a paper
arrangement, our obligations to protect
every part of the Commonwealth are just
as great as those of Britain, and our obli-
gations in respect of East Asia are greater
because of its proximity to us; because
British possessions there form the outer
bastion of our defences, and the stagings
of our world air communications.
This, however, is apparently not Can-
berra’s viewpoint. In 1942, when the
hard-pressed British —threatened by a
powerful and merciless enemy lodged less
than 25 miles from their shores and
carrying the burden of the defence of alii
the world’s sea and air communications
—failed to hold outlying Singapore
and Hong Kong (from 2000 to 4000 miles
from our shores) the Canberra Ministers
who reign today yelled their loudest for
25 divisions of British and American
conscripts to defend an Australia against
an invasion which was expected from
within their own hemisphere.
There seems to have been no change
in the sense of reality of the Chifley-Evatt
Government. It is still prepared to ac-
cept defence of our outposts and com-
munication-lines by British conscripts.
But it still believes that conscription, even
for Australian defence, is “undemocratic,”
a conviction which is forced on it at pre-
sent by the agents of the enemy, which
has a keen interest in seeing that Australia
and other capitalist countries have no
military force capable of resisting inva-
sion or insurrection, much less of carry-
ing out our obligations abroad.
The Problem of Tuesday.
At the recent conference of Emp—sorry
—Commonwealth Prime Ministers in
London, main subject was keeping India
in the Emp—dash it —Commonwealth,
and a “formula” was achieved and India
kept in. Presumably no similar problem
occurred with regard to Pakistan, though
there was some bother over Eire, and
there may be more over the dogged per-
sistence of Ulster in wanting to remain in
the Emp —bad cess to it! —in the Com-
monwealth.
Anyhow, it seemed that a lot of these
thoughtful gentlemen, inspired by what is
fondly called “the changing world” and a
few other things, agreed that the word
“Empire” was no longer fitting, and that
henceforth the agglomeration of countries
which still give allegiance to the Throne
should call themselves the Commonwealth
of Nations or British Commonwealth of
Nations or Commonwealth of British
Nations, or —well, anything that hasn’t
the awful word “Empire” in it.
Now maybe it is a changing world, and
maybe Empire is an awful word, and
maybe some people take offence at being
called British and maybe a name like
Comm, of Nats, is best for everybody.
But there still remains next Tuesday.
In preparation for next Tuesday many
youthful minds have been planning, many
youthful hands have stored away small
amounts in petty cash, much youthful
sweat has been expended upon the erec-
tion of piles of combustible material.
For next Tuesday many shops have been
decorating their windows, spending sums
in advertising and so forth, and many
parents have had to spend extra money.
Next Tuesday lots of public schools
will have a half-holiday and a lot of
politicians and other earnest gentlemen
will make speeches at the pupils. And
next Tuesday night bonfires will burn
behind scout halls, in vacant allotments,
in backyards, and herds of children will
fire crackers and skyrockets and hungers
and get their hair singed, and the parents
will attend and slyly let off a hunger or
two and drink tea and think of their youth
and generally agree, when taking the tired
and somewhat singed children home, that
it was a good night. And that sort of
thing will go on all ©ver the place. Yes,
there will be a great celebration next
Tuesday.
For, though the great men held another
conference for the purpose and gathered
in London from the ends of the earth to
do it; they could not change next Tuesday
from what it is—Empire Day,


PLAIN ENGLISH
Standing on His "Record."
Unofficially the election campaign for
which the writs will be issued next spring
is already getting under way. The re-
sumption today of the Parliamentary
session will provide one platform. But
Mr. Menzies’ pre-election tour of the
States is winning such attention that Mr.
Chifley is to follow him during the winter
recess. He was to have done so during
the recent recess, but his call to London
intervened.
In order to discuss campaign policy on
which “the movement” wished to start
off in step, a,s far as possible, the A.L.P.
Federal Executive has been meeting the
Prime Minister in Canberra. Mr.
Chifley gave them his line. His is
going to be another “stand-pat” appeal,
making no promises, leaving the issue to
the electors on his Government’s record
—“same as in 1946.” For the rest “the
party has solidarity,” it has a large pro-
gramme of expenditure (Snowy River,
N.T, Jong-range meat scheme with
Britain, W.A. water-development, “and
the like”), and the people “will want such
a Government.” As for “economic
chaos, or Communism, or anything else”
—all mere froth, 1 this stuff —forget it!
“ ‘Labor’ is the only bulwark against it.”
Which, summed up, means that;
As in 1946, Mr. Chifley will promise to
do, or refrain from doing, nothing, because
his programme is all in the Socialist plat-
form, That was not dear last time; it is
now.
He does not ask for, or want, any
mandate for this or that.* If the electors
vole for him again, anything that happens
is their lookout.
Making the Government’s record the
issue means that this is to be a test vote
on the socialisation programme and the
replacement of Parliament with government
by union executives through an economic
council.
No denial of this is, on the Government’s
record, to be trusted for a moment.
That has all been quite clear since Mr.
Chifley tore off the “Labor” mask with
his revolutionary legislation of 1947 to
destroy the trading banks. To vote for
him and his party again means endorse-
ment of the socialisation of everything—-
“except ice-cream carts and rag-shops,”
he has kindly explained. Only what Pro-
fessor Copland calls “the milk-bar
economy” of his Government is safe.
Mr. Chifley’s airy assumption of
“solidarity” in the party is subject to
such obvious reservations as the row be-
tween Evatt and Calwell on administra-
tion of the “White Australia” policy, the
conflict between Ward and his leader on
immigration of displaced persons from
Europe, the difference between McKenna
and the majority of Cabinet on the need
for legislation to control union ballots,
and the Communist issue itself, which has
laid the whole “movement” wide open.
Leaving aside little things like this, and
the alarm of marginal-seat-holders over
the reaction to the Bank-Grab Act, Mr.
Chifley’s talk about solidarity may be
allowed to pass for what consolation it
may be to those of Caucus who will
find pleading for votes to be uphill work.
The public has been told for years
about Mr. Chifley’s grand emergency
programme for expenditure on public
works. But the Snowy River scheme, the
new roads and railways in the Territory,
and Westralian dams will all want great
quantities of steel and other materials and
transport—all dependent on coal and
steel production. Without coal the
Chifleyites can- do nothing. “Labor” has
in none of its eight years of office, except
the one of extreme emergency during
the war, obtained as much coal from the
pits as the U.A.P. Government did
annually before “Labor” came to power.
The steelworks are so starved for coal
that they have been working at about 50
per cent, capacity and Australia is reduced
to importing steel from overseas —so far
as it is available —at several times the
home cost. All because “Labor” can’t
get coal from the miners.
No coal, blackouts daily in all cities,
inflationary increases in all prices, in-
sufficient production, the whiteanting of
the Arbitration Court’s authority and of
discipline in industries taken under Gov-
ernment control, the insolent blackmailing
of the Government by its Communist
fellow-travellers, and a leader still intent
upon travelling their way with more
socialisation schemes and further blud-
geoning of private enterprise —this is the -
“CHUCK THOSE SCALES AWAY; THEY WEIGH TOO FAIR!”
Government’s record and prospect. And,
says its leader, “the people will want
such a Government.” They’ll be damned
if they do.
Population Limits.
There is this to be said for Mr. Calwell —
that while others talk about population,
he is at least increasing it by his immi-
gration policy. Some more talk on the
subject emanated from Mr. Colin Clark,
Economic Adviser to the Queensland
Government, the other week. He held
that Australia’s population capacity was
25 millions, which is slightly better than
someone’s earlier estimate of 20 millions.
Ordinary people aren’t clear as to how
these experts reach their conclusions,
but they suspect that they are based
mainly on existing statistics of land pro-
duction and present development, both
of which are doubtful factors on which
to base an estimate for the future —that
future which is so capable of anything
with the onward march of science and
industry.
It is possible that if Mr. Clark and
his supporters had visited Caradoc
Station, on the Murray, 60 years ago,
they’d have put its future population at,
perhaps, 20 persons. Today somewhere
around 20,000 people live well in and
around Mildura, which was once Caradoc
station. What would they have said
about Whyalla .(S.A.) 10 years ago? Or
the N.S.W. Murrumbidgee irrigation
areas in 1905?
The history of human occupation and
development of lands, in Europe and
America and Africa, shows that nobody
can take a set of figures and say this or
that shall be the limit of population any-
where. Humanity still follows trade and
discovery, and, though land discovery is
about ended, trade and science are by no
means finished. It is no exaggeration to
say that all the people in Australia today
could be put in the Riverina and Vic-
toria and live Tike fighting-cocks. If
Australians are to live a highly-com-
mercialised, highly-paid life of short
working hours, they’ve reached their
limit. But if nine million people can live
as well as the Dutch do in swampy, low-
lying Holland, which is comparatively a
mere pocket-handkerchief in area, who
can say how many people could make a
living here —if they’re prepared to work
for it?
Showdown at Hand.
Federal Cabinet now has its hands full
with the question of the future of the
Stevedoring Industry Commission, a
tribunal quite useless if it is to be run
by the Communist bosses of the wharfies’
union—as Judge Kirby, its chairman, has
clearly decided.
The Government has the choice of
abolishing the commission and restoring
the jurisdiction of the Arbitration Court,
or of amending its constitution to make
Judge Kirby sole commissioner—a one-
man board like the Coal Tribunal —
though to leave an Arbitration Court
Judge in that position would be hardly
an alternative. The Government cannot
afford to yield to the union’s demands,
which take the form of declaring both
that it “will fight for retention of the
5.1. C.,” and that “the Waterside Workers’
Federation constitution requires its
general secretary to represent the organi-
sation on all tribunals,”
Either the Government or the Com-
munists, whose “philosophy” it has long
and disgracefully tolerated, must give
way. If the wharfies’ executive is to be
permitted to insist that only the repre-
sentative of its own choice (however
obnoxious to everybody else) can, under
its own rules, be a member of the Gov-
ernment’s instrument of authority over
the industry, then what becomes of the
Government’s stand in the “fight against
the doctors” over the running of the
national “free”-medicine service?
On one issue or another Mr. Chifley’s
showdown with the Communists is at
hand. The wharfies’ ultimatum has
merely beaten that of the miners’ to the
top of the cauldron as it reaches boiling-
point. So far as the wreckers are con-
cerned it does not matter which of them
throws down the challenge, for, as the
opening skirmish in the McPhillips case
shows, one Communist union-boss has
merely to ask another for a stoppage of
work in that other’s industrial satrapy
and the request is promptly obeyed. The
little Soviet of “mimicking Molotovs” at
Marx House, Sydney, with its lavish
Government-telephone switchboard and
its industrial storm-troops, has fixed all
its plans to lay “full employment” idle.
What the country looks for is sufficient
guts in political “Labor,” in Canberra
and Sydney, to take this foreign-inspired
insurgence by the neck and wring it
dead. It will be useless to look for a
lead from the A.C.T.U. or the Federal
A.L.P. executive, both of which have
turned their backs and run from A.L.P.
groups’ call for help.
The Ward Inquiry.
Counsels addressing:
Monday, May 9, saw a renewal of the inquiry
into E. J. Ward’s administration, with par-
ticular reference to New Guinea timber. In
the closing evidence it came out that Edward
Farrell had tried in vain to interest the firm of
Mclntyre and Sly in the alleged Bulolo Valley
concession afterwards claimed for Hancock and
Gore, and from a syndicate including members
of that concern had received £5OOO for an
option on “Durcher’s lease” —this during the
period of proceedings. “Curious,” Justice
Ligertwood commented.
Evidence concluded, J. W. Shand, K.C.,
“counsel assisting the commission,” entered
upon his address, which lasted three sitting
days and part of two others. Mr. Shand said
there was overwhelming evidence that the
Minister had never received or been offered a
bribe. He was severe on nearly every party
mentioned in the proceedings—Farrell, Jock
Garden and Ray Parer (“They condemned
themselves out of their own mouths”), Gar-
den’s son Harcourt (“a dummy who shunned
the statutory declaration”), Hancock and Gore
employees Biggs (solicitor and director), Sin-
clair (secretary), Hawkins (assistant secretary),
and Forshaw (logging manager); N.G. forestry
officers McAdam and Cavanagh; even the old
solicitor Crouch, who, with the Old Digger,
General William Glasgow, resigned from Han-
cock and Gore after the payment of £4OOO
to Farrell “on Forshaw’s behalf.”
A. D. McGill, K.C., for Hancock and Gore,
allowed that “Mr. Ward was an innocent man
so far as the bribe was concerned,” but this
was almost the only point on which he agreed
with “counsel assisting the commission.” He
protested against what he described as “the
very vile smearing of Crouch,” and charac-
terised Mr. Shand’s indictment of Hancock,
Biggs, Hawkins and Sinclair as “reckless, in-
temperate and extravagant”; indeed, lodged
“with wanton cruelty,” and the conclusion
which his fellow-practitioner had reached from
“a clear conviction of guilt” would have been
“a perfect defence on the charge of forgery,”
for which Jock Garden is serving a three-years
sentence. “Counsel assisting the commission”
had, in fact, contended that a huge swindle
was worked by Jock Garden, Farrell and Parer,
yet Farrell and Parer were “enjoying their
liberty,” nor had Farrell been prosecuted.
“It is not too late to prosecute Farrell yet.”
This came from Justice Ligertwood, who had
said previously, apropos of a Shand argument,
“If what you are putting is correct, Garden
could not have been guilty of forgery”; and,
again, “It might excuse Garden of forgery, but
it would involve him deeper in conspiracy, and
(i Continued on next page,)


w.
■m
i
m
m
CRAVENA
—for your
throat’s sake!
Obtainable in
10's & 20’s
LTD.—OVER
150
YEARS’
REPUTATION
CARRERAS
FOR
QUALITY
of that he has been acquitted.” Touching
Hancock and Gore his Honor said, “It’s a
pity they did not keep Mr. Crouch as their
legal adviser or take his advice when it was
tendered.” Another of his Honor’s remarks
was that he did not feel “completely satisfied”
with the evidence of McAdam and Cavanagh,
and that McAdam might have been expected
to discuss the granting of private rights in the
Bulolo Valley with his Minister (Ward) and
departmental head (Halligan); their testimony
was that there had been no such discussion.
“If there had been we shouldn’t be here now,”
said Mr. Shand.
POLITICAL POINTS
The Chifley Government and the
Federal Executive of the A.L.P. pretend
there is no need for legislation to assure
free and fair ballots in union elections.
Yet, as an instance of Communist
methods, the conference of delegates of
the Victorian branch of the Railways
Union, whose executive is controlled by
militants led by Communist J. J. Brown,
secretary and returning-officer, has ap-
proved its executive’s antagonism to
counting of sub-branch votes in the sub-
branches —the militants gagging the
debate. And it has left the ballots com-
mittee (also controlled by the militants)
to report on proposals to amend the pre-
sent practice whereby all ballots are
counted by the branch returning-officer,
i.e.. Communist Brown, who is also a
candidate for election.
With Mr. O’Sullivan, his Transport
Minister, away, and Mr. Sheahan,
his Lands Minister, acting in Mr.
O’Sullivan’s/ stead, Premier McGirr
received the recommendations of the
British transport experts for the
straightening-out of his Government’s
transport services,, which are losing
money steadily and becoming more
of a headache to users and operators
every day. In brief, the experts recom-
mend abolition of trams in Sydney and
Newcastle in favor of buses ; removal of
transport control from the Minister into
the hands of a Commission. How the
McGirrs react remains to be seen. The
trammies’ union is agin it, the busmen’s
union for it. At the week-end the Mc-
Girr Cabinet was saying nothing and the
newspapers were hinting that the “Labor”
back-benchers would oppose tram aboli-
tion. Sydney’s Labor Lud Mayor O’Dea
was for the trams. And some bright
person wrote to a newspaper demanding
to know why Sydney didn’t run a tram-
ticket lottery as they did in Madras,
As well as a war with the medical
profession in the six States, McKenna
has a duel with a Territory doctor on his
hands. His Health Department has
sacked Dr. Webster, M.O. at Tennant
Creek, and member of the N.T, Leg.
Council, who, as such, has been out-
spoken in his remarks on the N.T.
medical service. Members of Dr. Web-
ster’s hospital staff have championed his
cause by resigning; indeed, most of the
N.T. is behind him. So the outlook is
distinctly nasty for McKenna.
Writing to The Bulletin, the manager
of a London bank says: “I understand,
on unreliable authority, that the British
Government intends to nationalise crime
in order to ensure that it doesn’t pay.”
Mr. Dedman has announced the estab-
lishment of a Joint War Production Com-
mittee within his Defence Department.
It will “co-ordinate strategic plans with
production requirements” and “aim at
the development of Australia as a main
support-area in the Pacific.” Now, if
only we had an army, a navy and an air
force to go with it!
Mr. Attlee’s Socialist Government has
another Irish Question on its hands.
Attlee said, during his second-reading
speech of the Ireland bill, that just as the
British Government recognised the
authority of the Irish Parliament to leave
the Commonwealth, it recognised the
authority of the Ulster Parliament to
stay in the Commonwealth. He couldn’t
understand the Dail’s heated opposition
to the British bill. That’s because he
doesn’t appreciate the Irish of it.
From Brisbane to Birmingham muni-
cipal electors, virtually exercising the Par-
liamentary franchise, have turned heavily
against socialism, Right and Left.
“Labor” and its quondam Communist
allies, now so awkward, got a dreadful
doing in the British borough-council elec-
tions. One of the casualties was the
appropriately-named Piratin, the Com-
munist M.P. As a borough councillor
he became Piratout.
A “Go north, young man” movement
is afoot in Queensland, its object being
to stimulate the young of the Australian
species to head into the empty north and
populate it. Unfortunately, the young
have become too used to the big money
and good times available in the softer
south, and those of them adventurous
enough to head north are likely to find
Government controls a little too much
for them. Still, the movement deserves
all the help it can get. It originated in
Brisbane; its sponsors will come out
strong for a new State in North Queens-
land, perhaps.
Local-government elections in Britain,
apparently fought on a party basis, gave
the Attlee Government little comfort. Up
to the week-end more than 1000 polls
turned out like this: —•
London; Labor won eight and lost 270;
Conservatives won 272 and lost three;
Liberals neither gained nor lost; Inde-
pendents won three and lost three; Com-
munists won one and lost eight. Provinces:
Labor won 77, lost 530; Cons, won 560,
lost 24; Liberals won 19, lost 40; Ind.
won 121, lost 181; Corns won none, lost
two.
The Attlee boys are trying to comfort
themselves with the belief that it doesn’t
mean anything for the 1950 general elec-
tions ; this doesn’t get over the fact that
borough voters didn’t want “Labor.”
Canada will have a general election
on June 27. Newfoundlanders, number-
ing 321,819, will vote as Canadians this
time. St. Laurent will lead the Liberals
in place of Mackenzie King, who retired
last year, and George Drew (also a new
leader) will head the Progressive Con-
servatives.
It had to come. Dr. Evatt is sick from
too much limelight. He consulted a
doctor in New York, complaining of
headaches and eyestrain as a result of
“floodlighting used for newsreels and tele-
vision at U.N.0.,” and the medico has
advised more rest from it.
Odds in the Calwell-Ward immigration
battle are now 2 to 1, Chifley having
taken his stand with Calwell. He told
the Federal A.L.P. Executive that he stood
“four-square” behind Calwell’s policy, on
the ground that “The quicker we act,
the better types we will get.” It can be
said for Calwell that, in this matter at
least, he acts while others talk.
The A.L.P. was told by the Prime
Minister the other day that there’d be no
“big tax cuts” before the next elections,
adding “I do not believe in bribing the
electors.” Then he somewhat coyly
admitted there might be “some minor
adjustments, particularly in indirect taxa-
tion.”
Osmar White, revisiting New Guinea
for Sydney “D.T.” four years after the
publication of his fine Pacific-war book.
Green Armour, votes it the world’s worst
example of “what happens when an in-
efficient and ignorant metropolitan Gov-
ernment administers a colony.” White
found the people of Lae, Rabaul, Wewak
and Wau (and Moresby, too) “living in
slums built out of war-time junk,” and
“the little men leaving the country one
by one,” what time military roads deteri-
orate, “magnificent war-time port instal-
lations collapse,” copra worth £7O a ton
rots in sheds by the thousand tons and
“the small but once-flourishing rubber
industry is almost dead.” In effect the
European is being driven out by the mal-
administration of politicians and Canberra
civil servants “divided into factions,” one
set on “making the colony an anthro-
pological museum,” and another on
catching votes with “ ‘fuzzy-wuzzy angel’
hogwash.” This “ ‘fuzzy-wuzzy angel’
hogwash” was brewed by Ward, who is
(or was) the “responsible” Minister.
Former Sydney Domain spouter and
State member A. D. Kay is back after
many years in England, where the
Ministry of Information found his fluency
useful. Kay’s political career was brief,
though it needn’t have been, and he
occasionally said a penetrating thing. For
example, “'these workers Communism
appeals to —they always want a revo-
lution after a bad day at the races.” The
returned wanderer will find the Corns ex-
ploiting this weakness by publishing a
racing-sheet of their own and the daily
papers, all stridently anti-Com., making
racing their principal feature and —two
of them at least —reprinting the Com.
rag’s tips.
“Ceg”: Menzies, at Maryborough
(Vic.), gave a good reason for the lower
purchasing-power of the £ today. “One
reason why the £ won’t do as much for
us today is that we won’t do as much
for the £.” Bull’s-eye.
Owners of about 25,000 bales of Aus-
tralian wool, stored in Hong Kong by
speculators who hoped to sell it to Shang-
hai woollen mills, are scratching their
heads about it now. War-destruction of
Japanese mills and restrictions on
of Australian wool to those that are work-
ing gave Shanghai mills a promising
future. That’s up the spout for the time
being. It may be sold to Japan through
General MacArthur’s Administration, or
it may have to be bartered with Chinese
Communists for North China goods.
Harbor boards in the Queensland sugar
ports seem pretty certain that bulk-hand-
ling of sugar isn’t far off,’and most of
them are considering plans for installing
bulk systems at their wharves. The
sooner it comes the better. A C.S.R.
man has hinted that the company is mak-
ing arrangements for bulk-handling at
Pyrmont (N.S.W.) and advised the harbor
boards to hold their horses but to keep
an eye open.
Acquisition of that notorious six-and-
threepenny wheat from the Chifley Gov-
ernment by the N.Z. Government has
not been an unmixed blessing. Boss of
an Auckland milling company told the
company’s annual meeting that the Aus-
tralian wheat it had got during the past
year was inferior, and that irregularity
of shipments from Australia was “a
great handicap.” Twice in the year the
mills had to stop for lack of wheat. He
added that N.Z. farmers wouldn’t switch
from fat iambs and other crops to grow
wheat at the N.Z. price of Bs. 6d. a bushel.
Which shows what happens to an essen-
tial commodity when it becomes a poli-
tical plaything.
Brawls at union meetings between
decent unionists and Communists are not
confined to Australia. In Auckland a
new carpenters-and-joiners’ union,
formed to get free of Communist leader-
ship, decided to seek Arbitration Court
registration, and “there was a torrent of
abuse from a crowd including a number
of prominent Communists.” Extra police
had to be called to keep’order. TTiis is
what Communists call “free speech.” It’s
no wonder larrikinism has found a refuge
among them.
The Rev. Hagenaeur, who some time
ago had words with Melbourne Uni.
students over Communist influence in
that institution, told the Presbyterian
Assembly in Melbourne about people at
a meeting in support of free speech ap-
plauding loudly when a picture of Stalin
was shown. “They remind me,” said the
parson, “of a mob of sheep frisking and
gambolling joyously at the sight of a
picture of Sir William An g 1 i.s s.”
S’William is one of Australia’s leading
butchers.
Last Wednesday Adelaide “Advertiser”
announced that because a collier with
coal from Newcastle (N.S.W.) had been
delayed by high seas the “most drastic
power and gas restrictions ever imposed
in South Australia” came into force the
night before. Industries were shut down,
homes and transport affected. The cuts
were to stay on until the Friday. But
when it was learned that two mote col-
liers had failed to clear Newcastle on
time it was announced next day that
the restrictions would “almost certainly”
operate over the week-end. Adelaide,
and to a lesser degree Melbourne, has
been suffering this sort of thing for years.
It’s all because the Communist-run
Miners’ Federation won’t let miners cut
enough coal to allow anybody to store
emergency supplies, and that’s because
the Joint Coal Board and the Federal
Government which set it up allows the
Communist-run union to get away with
it. Some day some actuary will take the
trouble to tot up the total yearly losses
the Commonwealth suffers from this kind
of thing and the result will make all the
claims —honest and otherwise —that the
miners make look silly.
Elevated to a seat on the Federal Arbi-
tration Court Bench, Judge Dunphy gave
up the presidency of the W.A. Arbitration
Court with these words: “The right to
strike has gone. It died when a system
of law was introduced which gave to
those people who had a right to strike a
complete and absolute remedy for their
complaints,” That’s what most people
thought until they elected a Government
which refused to back up the law for fear
of offending some loud-mouthed person
with a political pull.
Malik, the Soviet delegate to U.N.0.,
became horribly annoyed when that flap-
doodle factory decided to postpone a de-
bate on Indonesia. He bellowed that
everybody except - Russia wanted to
“drown the Indonesian question,” and
that the position of Australia was “hypo-
critical and false”:
Ruling circles in Australia have been
bragging and strutting about being de-
fenders of human rights, while at the
same time they are playing the role of
fifth-column for the Dutch forces in In-
donesia. The Government of Australia
is being used as a weapon and a tool.
This, of course, is wildly exaggerated.
Mr. Malik should not have used the
plural. Only one “ruling circle” has been
doing the bragging and strutting, and he
is the “champion of small nations.”
Mr. Chifley told some of his cohorts
the other day that Russia didn’t want war
with the U.S.A. now because Russia “is
30 years behind America in industrial
capacity.” He should take Mr. Ward
aside and tell him. Mr. Ward has asserted
that the Soviet Union is 25 years ahead
of the “capiterlist” nations.
An estimate of the cost of counsel fees
alone, made at the beginning of the Privy
Council case over the Bank Grab, was
that if the hearing lasted 25 days they
would run into £250,000. It had run 28
days when it had to be adjourned because
Dr. Evatt was “delayed” in New York by
a sitting of the U.N. Assembly, and that
adjournment had to await Dr. Evatt’s re-
turn to London to make his final reply
in the case. The ways in which this
gabbling, galloping fellow costs us money
would stagger the greatest spendthrift in
history.
Started about 30 years ago as part of
soldier-settlement after the 1914-18 war,
the Victorian beet-sugar industry has
folded up. The Maffra factory stopped
making sugar last year, and no millable
beet has been grown since. A cereal-
processing firm bought the factory re-
cently and intends to make cornflour,
starch and so forth.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Col M.”: I’ve built one or two dog-
kennels in my time, with gables or flat-
tops, for big dogs and little dogs, but the
one that lies at present on the lawn with
2in, of bulldog tongue laid across the
threshold like a doormat is my finest
construction yet. Now this is not just
blatant pride in its architecture; there’s
a lot more to it than that. It’s the fact
that Cecil immediately accepted it as a
fitting dwelling-place. Half the dis-
appointed people in the world have at
some time stood back with a paint-brush
in their hand and called the dog over to
inspect his kennel. All the hammer-
beaten thumbs are forgotten ; the builder
beams in expectation his greatest
moment is at hand. Rover then comes
over with his tail down near his ankles
and shakes his head. Push him in and
he’ll bounce right out. Throw in a
biscuit and his paw becomes “the long-
jigger.” Chain him up with it at night
and he’ll sleep on the grass and catch
cold. If he’s a big dog he’ll try to push
it somewhere out of sight. These folk
might well try their luck again, for some-
thing appears to have happened in the
dog world. Possibly some word regard-
ing “housing shortage” has been picked
up by an intelligent hound and spread
around, for as I hammered the last few
shingles on the roof I heard from the
depths of the kennel the snore of a sleep-
ing bulldog with one eye open for hope-
ful squatters.
“K.D.S.”: R. G, Menzies had a
monster meeting of about 2000 hearers
at Mildura, Victoria, a place he had not
visited for 15 years. Cars were thick
along the main streets ; people had come
"I'm not leaving till you make an honest merwoman of her!"
long distances to hear him. Mildura
radio-station could not give him more
than half an hour or so. For two hours
he spoke from the railway lawn. The
only passenger-train leaves for Mel-
bourne at 8 p.m., and the driver ap-
parently crawled Ids engine so that the
passengers could get a look; but the
rumble and the hiss of steam obliged
Mr. Menzies to stop ahd wave farewell
to the train. In return the engine blew
a devastating blast. Again he waved.
This time the engine shrieked like a ban-
shee, then wailed a heartrending S.O.S.
As it ducked under the overhead it gave
a final realistic Highland “Hoot, mon.”
The crowd roared ; but Menzies is never
stumped. He turned to the mike and said
“That was a wilful interruption deliber-
ately staged by the”—and everybody
waited for him to say “Commos” —“by
the bowlers! ” The crowd yelled its
laughter, because 600 bowlers had arrived
for the annual tournament and half of
them were present.
* * ♦ *
“Ceg”: “Sturt St.” (B. 4/5/’49) and
the matter of ringing-in other metals
when selling alluvial gold to the banks
recalled a quickie put over a bank-mana-
ger who had been buying gold for 25
years. A cyanider came in with a nice
cone, and, after weighing, a fairly liberal
advance was made on it pending outcome
from the Mint. Its assay showed that
the cone was lead neatly coated
with gold, A hurried visit to the cyanide
works disclosed that'the bird had flown.
The bank had to suffer the loss, and, to
prevent a repetition, headquarters sent up
an apparatus made of glass which worked
on the Archimedes principle that gold of
a certain weight displaces a given amount
of water. The old manager regarded this
somewhat as an affront to his judgment,
but decided to give it a trial. One of the
mines had just brought in the weekly
clean-up—a very nice brick of gold. So,
with the office staff as audience, the old
boy dropped the brick into the container
with a flourish that shattered the whole
apparatus. “There,” he said delightedly,
“I told you the damned thing was no
good!” I, as office-boy, was detailed off
to clean up the mess, and we heard no
more of Master Archimedes.
* * * «
“Melbn”: Government House, Melbourne, is
having a face-lift in readiness for its next
occupant, and a citizen has been moved to
declare that the tower at the south end is an
abomination and ought to be demolished. The
Institute of Architects rushed to its defence
and said it was one of the aesthetic assets of
the city, seen in certain vistas. So it might be;
but seen in relation to the building, as it should
be, it looks like a tophat on the head of a
South Sea Islander. If a finger is put over
the tower in a photo the building looks as
stately and dignified as the Treasury Building,
regarded as one of the finest architectural
features of the city. Modern architects don’t
seem to use their eyes much, or why is it that
since the institute was established nine-tenths
of the beautiful old buildings in Melbourne
have gone to' the wrecker? yards and once-
lovely acres like the University have become
horrible hodge-podges? The proposed exten-
sions to the Melbourne Technical College on
the remains of the old Melbourne Jail, a fine
old specimen of early architecture, will be
another modem horror, and Kew Asylum,
which would cost half a million to build now,
and could easily be adapted to make a
magnificent gallery or public institution, is to
be demolished. Government House, which cost
£154,915 to build and furnish in 1876, when
Governor Ferguson occupied it, would cost two
or three times that much now, even if there
were craftsmen and stonemasons to reproduce
it —which there aren’t.
* * * *
“North”: “Our Quom correspondent,”
the A.B.C. told us over the midday news
session, said that the railwaymen on the
north line were running the train solely
on Leigh Creek coal, and for the first
time. At every siding, according to the
Quom authority, railwaymen were busily
hunting up large chunks of Newcastle
coal that had fallen off on previous trips
so that better burning would make for
speed when using the inferior article from
Leigh Creek. Last week the train had
been four hours late. We were not to be
caught miles from home this time. Armed
with packages of husky sandwiches, a
thermos of tea, and books that would
last out till midnight, we drove into the
siding at the usual hour. Goods are
carried on sometimes if you are not on
hand to demand the weekly meat, vege-
tables, bread and groceries. We had just
settled down to our books when a scream-
ing whistle shattered our-faith in coun-
try correspondents. In steamed the
Mixed, dead on time. Leigh Creek coal
perhaps, or maybe the stupendous energy
of the railway coalheaVers,
“Stop it! How can I pick ’em with that sawing going on ?”
“Bo”: Peace hath its horrors no less
than war, and where else could the latest
example have originated but in the home
of the juke-box. Father Divine, cheer-
leaders and tomayto-juice? Yes, it’s a
man’s hat with a built-in radio-set. It
is sure to prove immensely popular with
those queer humans whose enthusiasm
for radio is so avid that they are im-
pelled to crawl out of a warm bed at
3 a.m. to listen-in to some static from
Helsinki or Azerbaijan. The monstrosity
apparently involves pocket-batteries and
cords strung all over the wearer like a
Christmas-tree, with unprotected valves
stuck out of the lid like horns on a naval
mine. The chief effect the new invention
will have will be to justify at long last the
no-hatters, who for so long have
gone their way stoutly ignoring the dire
warnings of eye specialists and the sour
comments of hat manufacturers. Did
someone remark why didn’t they make
’em for women’s hats? Brother, you
should know the answer to that one.
What woman would stand for having her
verbiage output thus threatened? After
all, she can talk through her hat with-
out the aid of any announcer,
* * * ♦
“Nunk”: When Bill Albert, a Bul-
letin overseas representative, was in
America, Australia headed the returns of
Peconic, Long Island, post-office with
the largest postage on overseas mail.
Katie, the postmistress, likes to be deco-
rative, and is fond of mass-effects; and
instead of issuing the fewest stamps, she
would, with Mr, Albert’s permission,
plaster his packages with cent and half-
cent stamps, so that a package the size
of a sheet of foolscap would arrive here
with three-quarters of its area covered in
stamps. One package had 88 half-cent
stamps. Writing to someone in Long
Island recently, Mr. Albert pencilled on
the envelope, “Hiya, Katie,” and later
got a letter readdressed through the
Peconic P.O. with a pencilled note on
the envelope, “Hiya, Postmaster-
General.” Mr. Albert likes promoting
these little international understandings,
but considers he got off on the wrong
foot with the lady at the New York pub-
lishers’ cocktail-party who said, “So
you’re an Australian.” “As a matter of
fact,” Mr. Albeit > said, “I’m the first
white Australian to be bom of black
parents.” “Mr. Albert,” said the lady,
“my home is in the Deep South, and we
have colored maids and chauffeurs and
treat them just like one of the family.
Don’t you worry, you’ll be all right here,
Mr. Albert. You’ll be perfectly all right
in New York.”
♦ ♦ * *
“V. Cluse”: The shades of night were
falling over the Jephson backyard when
Mrs. J, sighted a skulking figure slip
over the fence, ooze behind the garage
and disappear into the blackness there.
She hurried to the front of the house and
E anted, “A burglar—somebody—l saw
im—creeping about the back.” Jephson
put down his paper and was about to
go to the backdoor, but she grabbed his
arm and said, “Don’t go—you might
get shot —he might” This made Jeph-
son pause. He went back inside, tele-
phoned his neighbor across the road, and
invited him to lend support. The neigh-
bor arrived with a No. 5 golf iron. Jeph-
son armed himself with a hammer. They
peered through the window and saw a
shadowy figure advancing towards the
house. It was crouched low and had a
horrible, slinking appearance about it.
Jephson wrenched open the door and he
and his reinforcement charged forth and
fell upon the prowler, what time Mrs.
J. screamed. The Jephson forces held
the captive down, both yelling, “Don’t
move or we’ll crown y’!” “Confound
it all,” spluttered the criminal, “I bin
chasing that canary all over the place
since he got out. Fd ha’ had him, too, if
it hadn’t been for you two silly
blankards.”
♦ * * ♦
“Plop”: About that “naughty expres-
sion” which “Lord Luvus” has observed
coming on “the faces of grown-ups when
they have a drink or even talk about it”
(B. 11/5/’49). Endeavoring to capture
this expression, I approached a friend
who’d been mowing his lawn for half of
Sunday morning and asked him if he’d
like to join me in a glass of ale. I
don’t think you could rightly class the
look that came onto his face as “naughty”
—“idyllic” would be better —his eyes lit
up, he smiled, and his tongue completed
a traverse of his top lip. There was little
change in this expression as he drank,
only that he added deep sighing to his
facial activities. Then, to complete the
experiment, I showed the man a news-
paper article I’d struck recently, which
was headed “Now You’re Cooking With
Beer,” was naturally enough written by
a woman, and which said that if one took
2i cups of beer, 1 pint milk, 2 tablespoons
lemon juice, 1 stick cinnamon, 2 egg-yolks
and salt, one could make something called
“Beer Soup With Milk.” Aghast, my
friend read aloud some of the other
recipes; “Veal Stewed in Beer,” “Fish
Fillets in Beer Sauce,” “Squash Beer
Pie!” He looked very naughty then.
* * * *
“J.W.”; Can’t let Bolivia get away with
its claim to be the only country to fly
beef-carcases in bulk (B. 4/5/’49). I
was with Clive Caldwell in Darwin when
he organised bulk-carrying of meat from
there to the troops in Morotai in 1945.
DC-3s did the beefing, and, with meat
killed and refrigerated in the Territory,
flew across at 10-12,000 feet to keep it
cold. The aircraft flew in flights of three
and loaded roughly 80001 b. each.
* * * *
“Minto”: “Dalmore’s” description of
food at pre-war country guest-houses (B.
20/4/’49) made me lick my chops. Nowa-
days even the advertisements aren’t
appealing. I struck the exception last
summer. It was an advertisement for a
Coolangatta (Q.) guest-house, and was
put together with a charming combina-
tion of enticement and frankness. It
read, “Enjoy the pleasant atmosphere
and friendly service at our spacious guest-
home. Hot and cold water. No meals.”
* * * *
“Clooter”: Sydney housewives find Mr.
Conde, the electricity commissioner ap-
pointed by the Sydney Government, a
positive dear. Before he took on the job
they used to hear frequently from Mr.
Cahill, the Minister for Local Govern-
ment. Mr. Cahill was full of threats.
He talked of fines of up to £5OO for any
woman caught using gas to make herself
a cup of tea, he issued threats about
switching on lights in “prohibited” hours,
he was going to “authorise” inspectors to
prowl round the suburbs and barge into
homes where they saw a suspicious light
or heard the song of a gas-jet. The aver-
age woman’s reaction to Mr. Cahill was
a strong desire to switch on all the lights,
the radio, the radiator, the iron and
everything else electric and/or light up
every gas-jet in the place. Mr. Conde
mildly invited everybody to give him a
hand by not using more lights or power-
points than they had to, and was so nice
about it that most of the ladies did their
night chores under one light in the
kitchen. So far it hasn’t saved them from
blackouts, but life seems a lot pleasanter.
SPELLING REFORM—AND QANTAS
Now that reformers such as Shaw have set
Their wits to work upon the alphabet,
And back themselves to prove beyond a doubt
It sticks to letters it could do without,
So that we writers, whether in prose or rhyme,
Are always wasting valuable time
On words which, all but pedants must agree,
Might just as well be spelt phonetic’Uy,
Why not a round of well-deserved applause
For Qeensland’s striking effort for the cause?
Qeer it should take an airline to disclose
And publicise, whithersoever it goes,
A thing our rude forefathers never knew,
Viz., that the crooked-looking letter Q
Can do whatever job it’s giv’n to do
Just as effectively without the U
As when that little vowel is tacked thereto;
The letter differing in no degrees
From certain physical appendices
Like vermiform, by suffering mortals cursed
As being undeniably the Worst.
If Qantas has obtained, as all may see,
An honored place in our vocabulary,
Why shouldn’t Qeanbeyan and qite a few
Towns with such names as Qorn and Qeens-
town, too,
Crack down on that superfluous, useless U?
I know it’s hard to write and you may bet
To slaves of custom ’twill be hard to set
At first, but where’s the point in hanging back
When Qantas has so boldly blazed the track?
Think what pronounced approval it will draw
From lords of language, such as Bernard Shaw
To learn we’ve chaps whose hearts, like his, are
set
On reconditioning the alphabet 1
N.S.W.
IFORD.


#ave closet
irith
Xx I
Hi
gje^,
oEf^
v (
COMPLETE
\
3<
WITH 2 BLADES
IN NEAT PLASTIC
V CASE y
fIOID °Ci-OC#SMDOfy W/TH
—the razor with the heavy
surgical steel blade that
gives double the usual
number of shaves. No
drag, no pull, just a sweet,
smooth shave.
Obtainable everywhere .
. .INVEST IN THE BEST
%SHAVINC swum
Here's some bright shaving gen, straight from
a million and more shrewd shavers Ingram's
concentrated shaving cream is the best invest-
ment in shaving security. Increase your face
value, look smart, feel smart, be smart and
shave the Ingram's way. It's cooler, more
economical, and oh, so much smoother, because
Ingram's soothes as it smoothes as it softens.
Send the coupon below for 7 FREE shaves on
Ingram's. Once you start shaving the Ingram's
way, you carry a lifetime policy of shaving
security. Don't delay, send the coupon today.
Ingram?
5-HAVfW6 CR.€A
FROM
CHEMISTS
EVERYWHERE
ram's
\ j
:5 A wm wAT
m
9
m
I
Bristol Myers Co. Pty. Ltd,,
223 Pacific Highway, North Sydney, N.S.W.
: NAME .
v;j ADDRESS
i
:
J
i 185
“Tom”: I wonder how the Sydney
flapper daily which referred to Chif.’s
overseas jaunting as involving “severe
physical strain” (B. 27/4/’49) would de-
scribe the journeyings of Queen Isabella
the First of Spain. This monarch has
been stated by historians to have ridden
on horseback over a goodly portion of
the realm she ruled jointly with her hus-
band, Ferdinand of Aragon. Some of
her journeys were made when she
was heavy with child. Considering the
wretched state of the Spanish roads at
that time, where roads existed, and the
mountainous nature of much of the coun-
try", her record of endurance must be
hard to parallel among rulers; and
although Chif. is capable of almost any-
thing, he is unlikely to beat it, either.
* * * *
“Zake”: Sydneians, prideful of their
city, will justly resent the recommenda-
tion made by the visiting English road-*
transport experts—it was significant that
they were allowed to get back to the safety
of England before their findings were re-
leased by the Premier —that its famed
trams should be scrapped in favor of
buses. In what other great city, Sydney-
siders ask enthusiastically, can you ride
two stops for threepence and enjoy the
benefits of a kidney breaking loose from
its moorings? What dweller or worker
along the draughty canyons of concrete
could stand the deadly silence of rubber-
tyred buses after having been used for so
long to the euphony of clanks, groans,
clatters, shrieks and rumblings of public
vehicles with octagonal wheels that were
middle-aged when Billy Hughes was
in short pants. I put this strong
argument forward. Ten years ago
the bustles women wore in the
’nineties were laughed at; today they are
again fashionable. May it not be, then,
that the lurching charges of the depart-
ment’s Laughing Stock Branch —sorry,
Rolling Stock Branch —which now are
mostly held together by a bell-pull cord
and the coat of paint put on it in 1913, will
be, in a year or two, again the height of
transport fashion as they were in the days
when businessmen went to their offices
in tophats, cutaway-coats, elastic-sided
boots and prickly, ankle-length under-
wear? In this I feel sure, Syd-
ney should try to curb strong, silent
Jimmy, that impetuous maker of rash and
irrevocable decisions.
* * * *
“Ray Whiting”: When the next war
starts I hope the character who decided
upon the park at Ballarat (Vic.) as a
convalescent depot is not at large. It
“Bit chilly this morning, Mac."
wouldn’t have been so hot even if the
bodies therein had been fit and rarin’ to
go ; but to float a mob of cripples in small
tents on that frozen, wind-swept stretch
of snow and slush was incomprehensible.
I’ve got clear recollections of floundering
around in a near-blizzard and pyjamas
with snow on the ground at 2 a.m. trying
to make tent-ropes fast with one good
wing. A coupile of hundred yards away
American marines, fit and waiting to go
up to the Blue,' were quartered in big
Yankee tents, each with a coke stove that
never went out and every man in a
bed! Ours was a ragtime joint all right;
each evening we were amazed to see a
guard with fixed bayonets mounted be-
neath the Red Cross flag. This went on
until a returned and outraged gunner with
more influence than his humble rank
implied spoke a word in the right quarter.
when the farce ceased with some slight
panic, but a lot of .abruptness.
* * * ♦
“X.S.”: A Philadelphia Judge re-
cently solved the problem of jailed parents
and their two infant children in an un-
usually benign way. Convicted of hav-
ing obtained money on relief payments
while the breadwinner was employed,
the parents were sentenced to three and
six months’ imprisonment, the wife getting
a longer sentence because she had done
the signing. The Judge ordained that
they should take turn and turn about
in jail, in two-day-a-week sojourns, so
that one of them would always be out to
look after the children. In Melbourne
the other day a woman serving a long
sentence for an illegal operation involv-
ing the death of the victim was herself
let out of Pentridge to have her own con-
finement.
* * * *
“Kilkennicat”: Apparently “Bughouse”
(B, 27/4/’49) knows something about
winding-engines. A few years ago an
enginedriver at the Metropolitan Col-
liery, Helensburgh, qualified for that
same title because he did not realise that,
as the hauling-rope wound on the drum,
there was so much less weight to haul.
He was finally convinced when he found
that he had wound the cage right up
to the top of the poppet-head. Four days
later, after repairs had been effected, he
repeated the performance, causing an-
other stoppage, but did not have the same
excuse. He was not given a chance to
do the hat-trick,
* * * *
“Hyanlo”: It isn’t only radio-an-
nouncers who fluff the pronunciation of
names such as Canowindra (B. 4/5 /J 49).
When I enlisted my mate and I were
herded with six other recruits in a tent
at Warwick Farm (N.S.W.), and during
introductions the mate mentioned that
we came from Forbes. Later that
night one of our comrades-in-arms
began to unburden himself to us,
told how he came from a town
near to ours, and even though he
seemed a trifle hazy on local identities
we became quite pally. He was just
about to spring the touch for a spin when
my mate called him a liar and vowed he’d
never been nearer to the bush than Bondi.
Perhaps it was Tom’s oversize biceps that
made the would-be confidence-man pack
up and move, but the rest of the tent
couldn’t see how we’d tumbled to him.
Still, they were ajl city-bred, and if they’d
had a quick look at a map to find towns
near Forbes they’d probably have pro-
nounced it “Cano-wind-ra,” too.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: Clarification of war-
aims from Melbourne “Herald”:
Eggs thrown during Sunday’s May Day
march, at the corner of Russell- and Collins-
streets, landed among the Wonthaggi Citizens’
Band, which was assisting with the march. My
apologies to the members of the band, as the
eggs were really meant for the Communist
party and were thrown from a great distance.
—“Reader.”
* * * *
“Rooster”: “Ex-Dig’s” remarks on
the sockless veteran of 1916-17 (B.
27/4/’49) recalls my own experiences at
Milne Bay during the “battle of the
swamp.” I can assure “Ex-Dig” that
no socks at all is better than muddy,
soggy hose, whether it be hot, cold, or
merely temperate. When you’ve trudged
through the mud, oft-times up to your
knees, your feet, deprived of proper venti-
lation, soon become truly “on the nose.”
What simpler remedy than to discard
the foulsome woollens, take off the boots
occasionally, and rinse them out with
clean water? Incidentally, the feet of
troops have always been the R.M.O.’s
eternal headache.
* * * *
“Hamer”: When I was a youngster
listening-in to the talk of visitors who
were trying to catch some “coolth” on our
broad verandah on a sweltering day, I
heard a fat chap grumble, “The climate
is changing—that’s what it is. When do
you remember hot days like this in
March?” For 62 years since then I have
heard the plaint about the climate chang-
ing. That surely is proof that it is
changeless in its characteristic of being
liable to curious variation. Way back
in the 1820’s Surveyor Biggs recorded in
February an intense cold change on the
Hawkesbury with a sudden fall of hail
which cut down trees and left leafless
those that stood. A July spell of what
was described by the papers as “Indian
heat,” a January in which the thermo-
meter reached a shade-heat of 115 deg.
and then dropped so rapidly that snow fell
in Woollahra, and a December day when
the temperature fell to 48 degrees are
among my recollections. On the average
the Sydney climate is beautiful, with
balmy days in winter and only short
periods of excessive heat in summer ; but
it has something to match what in a
beautiful woman is regarded as “tempera-
ment.”
TAKING SILK.
“Two of England’s leading women lawyers have
been appointed K.Cs., the first of their sex to be
thus promoted.”
Slowly for many a century, but fleetly
This current one, each passing year records
They climb the heights once occupied completely
And solely by creation’s so-called lords,
And every bit as rightfully as sweetly
Claim* and obtain their share in the rewards
And all the other tributes that may be
Paid to professional proficiency.
It doesn’t seem so long since women couldn’t
Be held sufficiently intelligent
To have a voice in whom they would or
wouldn’t
Desire to be returned to Parliament.
And now there’s no one questions why they
shouldn’t
Themselves aspire to being thither sent
In growing numbers to participate
In all connected with affairs of State.
Time was the courts of justice only knew them
As litigants in the accustomed rigs
Wherewith modistes and milliners endue them,
From sober matron down to gay young
sprigs;
But now it seems the galleries can view them
In silken robes and those full-bottomed wigs
Judges and counsel learned in the law
Wear to inspire us humbler folk with awe.
They’ve taken silk, to use the cant expression,
All honor to such Portias as these
Who’ve risen to the top of their profession.
Become King’s Councillors —for short, K.Cs.,
Which represents a notable concession
To lady lawyers, everyone agrees,
And sets me wondering how long ’twill be
Before the lead is followed locally.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Bon-Yi”: What looked like dainty
blue-and-scarlet sandals brought in by a
quiet little man to our country show for
a non-competitive exhibit seemed odd.
They were wooden clogs, neatly carved
to the shape of a woman’s feet, with soft
upholstery-leather for uppers, and
enamelled. The wood was local blush
cudgerie, a common, woolly-grained
scrubwood, light, tough-fibred and of a
faint pink-silk sheen. This wood will not
split easily, bruise's instead of cracks
when forced against sharp edges or gravel,
and makes an ideal wood for clogs. Bill
said he learnt to make them for tucker
when he was in Changi. There he and
his cobbers found that boot-leather didn’t
last long in the wet, and walking barefoot
simply asked for tinea and other skin
diseases. They saw the primitive wooden
slippers that flip-flapped on the feet of
the coolies and knew they could make
better ones. They did, and found an
eager market. Business was brisk, especi-
ally among the Jap guards, who bought
some for their girl-friends. Wood used
in Changi was the main and large lateral
roots of the übiquitous rubber-trees,
which was soft, white and tough. Bill
reckons our Queensland cudgerie is even
better and should have a better use for
it than its present one of timber for fruit-
cases and coffins.
“Subbo”: The law of hydrostatics
operates in some curious ways. For in-
stance, a bottle of beer dropped into the
tide sinks, but a keg of the same stuff
will float, though just awash. Lying
just outside Mandurah, W.A., the skip-
per’s keen eye caught something. It
proved to be an 18-gallon keg of XXX.
We learned later how the tragedy befell
its previous owners. A party of sports
had arrived inside the estuary with a
large launch. The beer having arrived
by land transport, the eighteener was
brought to the launch-side in a
six-foot dinghy. The
party’s strong man,
wishing to display a
Sandow act before
the ladies, slipped
down into the dinghy
and, disregarding all
offers of assistance,
picked up the keg
with the intent of
giving one vast heave
and sending it well
up on to the deck of
the launch. Unfortu-
nately he had not
made a study of
hydr o s t atics, for
when he gave his
vast heave the keg
declined to rise: in-
stead the dinghy
with all in it was
pushed under. Plung-
ing down, the keg
had evidently bobbed
up on the other side of the
launch and drifted away wh'ile
Samson and his cohorts desper-
ately conducted diving opera-
tions, thinking their lost treasure
rested on the estuary bed. It
was splendid beer.
“Gravelsnatcher”: A Perth paper which
averred recently that “water will almost
certainly flow into Lake Eyre for the
first time since 1890” was quickly taken
up by a reader who had seen Cooper’s
Creek in flood in that locality in 1906,
It ran a flood of three miles wide, con-
tinued to run for nine months, and “left
lagoons and lakes which lasted fresh for
two or three years.” He was supported
by an old drover who recalls how two
teams, travelling a total of 22,000 sheep,
were faced with the problem of bridging
the flood or waiting a couple of months
for it to subside. They bridged it, using
saplings and wire from a cocky’s fence,
the job taking three weeks and the cross-
ing two days. In the absence of any
evidence to the contrary, it is assumed
that the Cooper hasn’t flowed —in that
locality—since 1906. But can any mem-
ber of the Council explain the source of
such a tremendous volume of water
running for so long and so far? I know
the Cooper originates in Queensland, but
at what point along its route could it
acquire the makings of such a flood, and
why isn’t the downpour repeated more
often?
* * * *.
“Billy T.”: Of all the damage done
when “Bo’s” tractor bolted (B. 27/4/’49)
the most distressing, to me, was that in-
flicted upon the saltbush hedge. Possibly
it was a pretty scraggy hedge; passers
sometimes sniffed and wondered why the
drab stuff was ever grown there; but the
bloke who planted it had his reasons. Not
long ago there arrived for me a bundle
of dry, brittle sticks from out where the
red ’roos run, and they were planted
along the front fence —right out in the
wind and weather, where Old Man Salt-
bush always goes. Most of the leaves
turned purple, then brown, and then
dropped; but on four of the cuttings
there was a tense fortnight at the purple
stage, and then tiny shoots of grey-green
poked through at the tips. If you get
right down to them you can now see
the fine, frosty texture of the young
growth ; the neighbors probably think it’s
Ramadan and I’m praying as I face the
west —and they mightn’t be far wrong.
Years ago, in that same sandy Sydney
suburb there came a wanderer with three
camels ; he was a novelty for a few weeks,
but had to beat it when his oonts took
to scoffing privet hedges for supper. I
laughed at the time ; but if any camel
pokes his snaky neck up our street now
he’ll wish he’d never strayed this side
of the bore-drain.
* * * *
“Kelms”: I toss this question into the
hat: Why do blowflies flock to the smell
of exploded gelignite? Touch off a
charge anywhere and there’ll be a few
around before the smoke clears. They
appear as quickly a thousand feet down
as they do on the surface, and they pros-
pect the new ground as eagerly as does
the miner.
* * * *
“Betcha”: Had to look after the old
dogger’s rabbit-pack while he was away
and have landed myself in nothing but
argument as to what constitutes the best
pack. “You’ve got too many of those
midget hunters in the mob,” I pointed
out to him on his return. “And not
enough runners.” “ ’Course I ain’t,” he
scoffed. “In rough country them fourteen
little foxie mongs hunt out everything.”
“Yes, and if your two tired runners aren’t
on hand at the moment they soon lose it
again because they can’t keep near it,”
I argued. “Besides, your team are all
either midget hunters or greyhounds. Not
“Why don't you patent this marvel-
lous idea, love?"
an in-between, general-purpose dog in the
lot.” “Don’t want ’em, either,” he re-
plied decidedly. “No good feedin’ a
lot o’ mongs that’s not one thing nor the
other. They only knock ’emselves out
runnin’ and catch nothin’. I’ve been a
long time buildin’ up this pack like I
want it.” He was ; but after working
them, I’m hanged if I can see sense in
such a mob. My idea of a pack is one
that consists mainly of general-purpose
dogs—those that will hunt when necessary
and can foot a rabbit well enough to stay
in the chase and so be on hand when the
quarry starts to dodge. A couple of
special hunters is enough, with three or
four better-class runners, such as small
greyhounds, or greyhound-whippet cross,
“ That'll stop your nagging !”
“Bo”: While Mum and Elsie cleared
away the tea things Dad stood with his
back to the kitchen stove. “I s’pose that
big gawk of a Tom’ll be over again be-
fore you’ve had time to wash up,” he
remarked. “I don’t know what y’ see
in him, biowed if I do. He’s been hangin’
round here for years and is too dippy
to ask y’ to marry him ; not that I’d like
to see y’ spliced, mind y’, to a boob that
hasn’t the brains to come in out o’ the
wet. Never knew such a goat. Troops
in here bringin’ half the cowyard on his
boots, does nothin’ but fire spit at the
hot stove so he can see it sizzlin’, can’t
talk; intelligently on any subject, an’ I
don’t think he ever washes. No wonder
he hasn’t got a cracker, tryin’ to get along
with a mangy lot o’ scrubbers. An’ he’s
a bit of a liar, too. Only yestiddy 1”
He looked up to see the subject
of his diatribe at the open door,
twirling his hat in his hands. “I
’card all y’ said,” quoth the newcomer
sulkily, “an y’ ain’t got no right to say
it —them cows o’ mine is as good as any
you got!”
* * * *
“Chuck”: The date of Bob’s wedding
to Nellie Hodge had been decided 12
months before, and plans for the event
dated even further back. Everything was
proceeding admirably when, a couple of
weeks before the wedding, Bob suddenly
flung down the local rag and streaked for
the Hodge establishment. “But we’ll
have t’ do somethin’,” he pointed out.
“Change the time’ll fix it. Say we make
the ceremony eleven o’clock, then we c’n
get away about six or so. That do, eh?”
Nellie pointed out the disadvantages,
argued, entreated, stormed, wept copiously
and finally agreed to see what she could
do. Next morning Bob sought the
parson. The altered plans were incon-
venient for that gent., but finally he de-
cided to manage somehow ; then, with
Nellie, Bob faced the caterer. “But all
the perishables would have to come from
town the day before,” protested the
caterer. “So much more trouble and ex-
pense.’’ “Not as bad as having to house
all the down-country relations overnight
like I’ll have to do,” wailed Nellie.
“There’s dozens of them, and we’ve got
no room.” “Yes, it’s so much better a
bit later,” argued the caterer. “Why
change it?” “But we’ve got to,” urged
Bob. “You know as well as I do we
never have more ’n the one meetin’ a
year in this district —an’ one o’clock!
Gripes, don’t y’ see,” he gasped. “A
bloke’d miss the first race.”
* * * *
“Old-timer”: When Little Curl arrived
at the Moonlite hut with the idea of
living in it for a fortnight he found that
someone had left the door open, and
the place had become a refuge for lizards,
rabbits and about 20 head of longwool
sheep. Curl cleaned the lizards out and
his dogs evicted the rabbits. The long-
wools were different. Like all longwools
they ignored dogs and were friendly to-
wards man, and that night Little Curl’s
slumbers were disturbed by attempts of
the sheep to get into the hut. Next
day he mustered and drove them to
the next paddock, but they came
over or through the fence and
were back almost as soon as he was.
The dogs got laryngitis swearing at the
sheep, gave it up and took to wallowing
in the tank and cracking jokes among
themselves at Curl’s expense. Even the
brown horse seemed to Curl to be snig-
gering. It was no use shutting the door at
night, because the hut stood two feet high
on piles and the sheep went under it and
bumped their heads on the floor, and
snuffled, and bleated and generally con-
veyed to Curl their wounded feelings
at being shut out. After a week of this
Curl found a solution. So it was that
when Barney reached the hut with the
rations one night he found the door wide
open and the place full of sheep, and
Little Curl swung in a bag hammock be-
tween a couple of belars down near the
tank. “Whatcha doin’ there?” Barney
demanded. “Didn’t y’ know?” Curl
replied with heavy sarcasm. “I’m runnin’
a rest-home for coddled jumbucks. Gotta
sleep ’ere t’ keep watch on the tank an’
see no dirty blokes like you go washin’
their hands in it.”
* » * ♦
“Jimmy”: At the sound of a tissue
being drawn out of my packet, Kim, the
household mong, came to my feet and
waited, watching very alertly. Wonder-
ing what was on his mind (if any), I
slowly rolled that fag, and when a strand
of ready-rubbed fell it was promptly
lapped up. It dawned on me then that
I hadn’t seen any bumpers about lately,
so, thinking to cure him of tobacco-
chewing, I tossed the lighted gasper down.
Towser picked it up —not by the ash end
—and, tossing well away, chased after
it and started to dab the bumper with
both paws until he was satisfied it was
out. Then with one gulp it went down.
Although I have pulled out ticks from
him I can’t remember his ever having
any after-effects, and I’m wondering if
nicotine has rendered the tyke immune to
the poison.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: In a quiet little
corner of Sou’-Westralia a couple of
aspiring artists are painting in a land-
scape scene, and they’ve struck the first
hurdle. It’s a fence. Just an ordinary
rabbitproof fence, constructed originally
of galvanised wire-netting, but with the
galvanising removed by bushfires. How
would Dobell approach the task? Or
Norman Lindsay? They realise that it’s
not a job for amateurs, and they’ll wel-
come advice from anyone qualified to
give it. They’re triers, and they’ll paint
that darned fence if it takes from now
till Christmas. There’s just a chance it
will, too. That fence is five miles long.
If it’s not painted it will rust in no time,
and they’re doing it with Sin. brushes.
* * * *
“E.”: “Telarb’s” grisly anecdote (B.
20/4/’49) recalls old Bob’s case. Bob,
new to the district, was riding back with
Joe after a day’s axe-work in the bush.
It was pitch-dark, and the talk turned on
snakes, “They tell me there’s a lot of
tigers in these parts,” Bob commented.
“Deadly things, tigers.” “Yair,” Joe
answered. “Probably plenty about on hot
nights like this, only y’ can’t see ’em. Got
a match?” Bob began feeling through his
pockets. “Tough if a man got bit by
a snake out here,” he commented. “Never
get to a doc. in time. Have to
treat it himself, I s’pose. Here’s y’r
match. I —aw, cripes. I’ve dropped ’em.
Wait a minute.” He slid off and began
feeling round on the ground. “Won’t be
a minute ; only—uh! Strike me lucky!”
“Whatsamatter, Bob? Whatsamatter?”
There was a gasp from the blackness.
“A —a flamin’ snake,” came the answer.
“In a little bush here. Got me on the
finger. Cripes, I —I” Followed a small
thud, a painful grunt and Bob continued.
“I —I’ve chopped it off, Joe. Nothing
else for it. Prompt action. Prob’ly save
me life. We —we’ll get down quick, an’
—an’ get it tied up.” Riding back next
morning Joe soon found the spot, col-
lected the axe Bob had dropped, and eyed
the severed digit. Then he looked over
the surroundings. It was a most un-
likely snake-resort —dry open plain every-
where, the only possible cover being a
large and particularly spiky thistle
growing alongside. Thoughtfully, Joe
took in the strong, bristling spikes, in-
spected the finger, then carefully dug out
the thistle and dropped it into a wash-out
before Bob should come along.
THE PLOVER.
I heard you, plover, in the quiet night,
And knew your loneliness, your grief-filled
cry; •
I, sitting anguished with my fevered child,
You with your anxious vigil set on high.
Leaving the child awhile in fitful sleep,
I sought the comfort of the soft, cool night,
And saw you, silver-faint, like some pale sign
Tremble against the moon’s first shaft of light.
O piercing call that seemed both pain and joy,
Drawn from the very core of earth and sky!
O sleeping valley stretching white and still;
The night held but the plover, child and I.
N.S.W.
OLGA SCHLUNKE.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
•TEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMB.OSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
COLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : ; PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“IACKSUL.” BRISBANE
When Sister Sue found her tube of Napro Hair
Vitalizer squeezed dry, she just took one look at brother
Bob’s lustrous, healthy hair and picked the culprit.
For Bob, like many other men, had found that Napro
Hair Vitalizer gave him a healthy scalp, removed
dandruff and made his hair elastic and vigorous. But
he’s got no excuse for “borrowing” it again, because
now there is a special Napro Hair Vitalizer for men
that has all the qualities of the original product' and,
at the same time, keeps the hair perfectly groomed
without “plastering.” So just slip into any good chemist
or store and buy a tube to-day— it will improve your
hair from the very first application.
NAPRO
VITALIZER FQRMfN
National Chemical Products Pty. Ltd.
Liverpool Stte&i* Sydney
HAIR
Get Winter Warmth with . . .
MORRIS “CENTRAL” RADIATORS
Economical, Mobile, Central Heating
The Morris All-British “Central” Radiators give the comfort of
“Central Heating” without heavy installation costs. They’re mobile,
too. Being water filled, they do not draw any moisture from the
air. For the town and city, there is the electric Morris “Radfire,”
which can be used as a radiator or. direct ray fire or both. This
radiator is illustrated at right. Shown at left is the oil radiator,
ideal for heating houses in the country where no electricity or gas
is laid on, and is operated by an “ODOURLESS” precision blue
flame kerosene burner.
ii
ii
Manufacturers and Patentees—Morris Heating Appliances Ltd.,
\ 5 Netherton Grove, London, S.W. 10.
Trade inquiries invited. Stocks available in Sydney or Melbourne.
Sole Agent : —
L. D. BESTON
387 KENT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone: M 3526. Cables: “Boston, *’ Sydney.
Melbourne Office: 3rd Floor, 34 Queen Street. 'Phone; MB 1361.
Morris “Central” Radi-
ators are mounted on ball-
bearing castors and can be
wheeled from room to room
with ease and perfect safety.
“Khasi Rokok”: Those who spent the
winter of 1942 in the Hume artillery camp
will remember the little grey kangaroo
which had the run of the lines. After
the day’s work started, it liked to pick
a sunny tent, and, basking on the floor-
boards, watch the gun team suffer till it
dozed off. Generally it had to be heaved
off somebody’s kit at lunch-time. George
and Blue, two returned Middle Easters,
who had managed a tent to themselves,
went into Albury one rest-day afternoon,
eventually losing each other between
pubs. George got back around midnight,
mostly by luck and instinct, and in the
frosty moonlight saw a motionless form
on the floorboards. “The poor old cow! ”
he said. “He’d have froze to death.”
Working quickly, while strength and
consciousness lasted, he flicked out his
own blankets, then pulled out Blue’s and
tucked them tenderly around the un-
conscious form. As he finished, a long
neck rose up, topped with a kangaroo’s
head and ears, looked round at him and
said “Thanks, mate,” dropped back again
and gave a deep sigh and a contented
wriggle of the shoulders. George doesn’t
remember what happened then till
reveille woke him. Old Blue was still
sleeping soundly. There were a lot of
grey hairs on his ** blankets, and what
looked like kangaroo tracks in the mud
outside the tent. George hadn’t worked
it out yet when I saw him last.
* * * sH
“Wippegong”: Down among the brown
grass, where the littlest farmworkers
fossick about and daily destroy more than
their own weight of pests, you’ll see
small flocks of tiny fowl whose identity
is uncertain until they fly. Perhaps
commonest, and easiest to recognise, is
the yellow-tail; a neat wee tit whose
drab back hides him so long as he stays
on the ground. His face is more freckled
than any other in his clan, but that
feature is a minor guide to identification
beside the brilliant yellow rump revealed
when the bird rises. Don’t be confused
if, among the flock, there are some of the
same size and habits with no yellow at
all. These are white-faces; if you sit
still they might work close enough for
you to see why—they look as if they were
gazing at a dish of whitewash when some-
one nudged them from behind ; then they
wiped their beaks clean but didn’t remove
the make-up on their little mugs. The
two species usually mix and spend much
time together, but just now on the Upper
’Bidgee I see them apart. The white-
faces are still twittering as though Spring
never ended, but the yellow-tails are
silent. Maybe they don’t like the radio
going all day and have slipped away for
a quiet change.
“Know any shaggy-dog stories?”
“Solitude”: We’d delivered the mob
down-country and were returning along
a road we hadn’t travelled for quite a
bit. There was a strong wind blowing,
everything was damp and it was around
midday. “ ’Nough tucker left for a
snack,” Seventyfiver broke the silence.
“If only we c’d get a billy o’ tea.” “What
about trying this joint over here for
water?” I suggested. “We’ll ask ’em for
boiling. Save lighting a fire.” Seventy-
fiver slid off and began unslinging the
billy. “Funny-lookin’ house, ain’t it?”
he remarked, “Yes. Army' hut. New
bloke shifted here not long ago. Shut
up; here he is.” The new bloke was
affable enough, and, seeing Seventyfiver
undisguisedly squizzing the place, he
showed him around. “Wish our house
was built,” he frowned. “Terrible, living
like this. No conveniences. I’ve set up
a stove and put water in, but there’s no
sink or anything.” Seventyfiver eyed the
screened-off bedroom, listened to tjie tale
of trial and makeshift, and clucked sym-
pathetically. We resumed our way.
Throughout the afternoon it rained
steadily, and we were pretty well numb
when, a couple of hours after dark, we
reached the hut. With four or five mugs
of tea under his belt Seventyfiver chucked
a heap of wedges off the kerosene-box,
dragged it nearer the fire, and flopped
down, only to get up immediately and
shift beyond direct range of the hole in
the wall. Then, shoving his steaming
boots towards the blaze, he propped a
crowbar behind him and leaned back
luxuriously. “Ha!” He reached for
his pipe. “Good t’ get back to a bit o’
comfort, eh?” he chuckled. “Makes a
bloke damn’ sorry f’r them pore cows
back there that ain’t got a decent home
t’ live in.”
* * * *
“Homeless Alby”: Of course, we know
all about those mud-bricks out of which
Leonora (W.A.) is built (B. 20/4/’49);
and know, too, that the long-defunct
Kookynie was largely built of the same.
But Niagara, also on the same line of
reef, more or less, was the pride of them
all, having four mudbrick hotels, each
on a corner of the main square of the
town: though the last time I saw
them all were empty, and all were dis-
solving away in the now-and-then rain-
fall. We know, too, about mudbrick
homesteads with 16in. walls built along
the Manilya River, Murchison (W.A.).
Cement-sand bricks, too, make good
buildings,, but in Perth, where desirable
sand ranges 50ft. in depth, a law prevents
anyone from digging the necessary sand
even out of your own backyard. Natur-
ally it was passed by a “Labor” Govern-
ment.
*• „ * * ft
“B. Fair”; I had struck a few snapper
and an odd jewfish, but could get neither
past the sharks. Being used to this, I
was mildly surprised when allowed to
land a flathead. On thinking back over
past fishing seasons I remembered thaf
not once had I had a “flat” taken off
the hook, and I think I know the reason.
The flathead has a habit of shaking its
head sideways on its way up, using the
double barbs, which are placed just for-
ward of the gills. These would be most
uncomfortable for the big fellow; and
he evidently prefers to forgo the feed
rather than suffer an intestinal puncture
which he can’t mend,
* * * *
“Botano”: Visiting Lake Wendouree
(Vic.) recently I was surprised at the
growth shown by a plantation of Cali-
fornian redwoods {Sequoia). As they
stood, those trees would have made good
logging material; given the 500 to 1000
years of life generally credited to the
giants of California, those Ballarat trees,
judging by present growth, would sur-
pass the U.S. giants. Until recently Cali-
fornia was supposed to be the only
natural habitat of the Sequoia, two
species being represented there. It was
well known, however, that other types
of the tree had at one time existed: a
fossilised specimen had been found right
down to the Gulf of California on the
eastern side of the Pacific, with similar
fossils down the west China coast to
much the same latitudes. Now the living
tree has been discovered growing in
mountainous regions of China. It might
be a good investment to lay out a few
plantations in, say, the Victorian Gram-
pians, the south-west of W.A. and other
likely places, just as a legacy for the com-
ing generations, from whom we are so
busy stripping oil, coal and a hundred
other essentials which within another
couple of centuries will be in very short
supply.
* * * *
“Moujik”: I wish “Telarb” had given
a few details about that pub-backyard
beheading (B. 20/4/’49). The Kelly that
the little bloke swung: was it the pub-
woodheap axe, or a razor-sharp imple-
ment that just happened to be there?,
Most pub axes I’ve struck have been
akin to that table-knife famed in one of
Steele Rudd’s yarns as the implement
with which Dad attempted to cut the
throat of Joe’s pet kangaroo. Again, it
would need to be a remarkably accurate
stroke that enabled a narrow-bladed
wood-axe completely to severe a human
head —and a big and presumably bull-
necked head at that. Of course I’m not
saying it didn’t happen ; but having made
some study of decapitation as an art as
practised throughout the ages, I long ago
arrived at the opinion that the human
head is not lightly parted from its trunk.
A classic instance is the execution of the
Duke of Monmouth in the time of James
11. Having made an initial smack, the
headsman was so poor at the game that
Monmouth looked up from the block to
urge him to be a bit more tradesmanlike.
Actually it took three blows with the axe
to dislodge the ducal bean. History is
full of similar incidents. Which is one
of the reasons why Dr. Guillotin intro-
duced his highly-effective machine, and
why the more practical Chinaman does
his beheading with a heavy, two-handed
sword, using no block at all.
MR. SNAKE.
When the moon was warm and bright,
Shedding soft its silver light,
He came waltzing down the track,
Metaphorically, looking slick,
With his gloves and walking-stick
And a new suit on his back.
He was gay and debonair,
He had perfume on his hair,
And his marcel wave looked swell;
And his tail was up, and flash,
As he cut a perfect dash,
On his way his love to tell.#
Then he hissed a snaky song
As he tripped and skipped along—
It had such a wicked air!
Maybe, too, beneath his scales,
He recalled a serpent’s tales
For the girl he hoped to snare.
By some fusty ferns and wood
Where the smell, to snake, Was good
And the hollow logs were deep
I believe they both were wed,
And a home was dug, ’twas said,
Long before their winter sleep.
So it was the strangest sight,
By the silver leave’s alight,
I have ever marvelled at:
Mr. Snake in trousers creased,
With his glossy hair well greased,
Wearing a high silk hat.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


df
The Trustees, Executors and Agency Co. Ltd., Australia’s oldest Trustee Company, has
pride association with the administration of rural properties. It provides:—■
• Efficient management.
• Safeguards the interests of dependants.
• Provides ample security for performance of trusts.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd*
EXPERIENCE
in the administration of
Pastoral & Farm Properties
BOARD OF DIRECTORS;
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman) ; Sir Lennon
Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; Sir Alan Newton,
M.S., Melb.j r.R.C.S., Eng.; G. D. Yonng.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY,
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £964,692.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Dp. H. J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.A.O.P. (Chairman);
John Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8., K.8.E.,
C.M.G., D. 5.0.; David Wilson, M.A., L.L.8., K.C.
N.S.W. Manager; C. B. R. Cowdery.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Howard Smith, Ltd.
Howard Smith and Subsidiaries.*
r - j Dividends , To Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1943.. 131,130 6 p.c. 5 p.c. 115,000 16,130 1,340,857
Added reserve subsidiaries, £9,806 1,350,663
1944.. 128,709 6 p.c. 5 p.c. 115,000 13,709 1,364,372
Added reserve subsidiaries, £5492 1,369,864
Written off colliery, £13,395 .. 1,356,469
1945.. 123,716 6 p.c. 44p.c. 105,000 18,715 1,375,185
Added reserves subsids., £34,121.. 1,409,306
Written off colliery, £23,991 .. 1,385,315
1946.. 163,934 6 p.c. 4£p.c. 105,000 58,934 1,444,249
Profit sale shares, £lOO,OOO .. 1,544,249
Added reserves subsids., £70,195.. 1,614,444
Unexplained to genl. res., £12,936 1,627,380
Written off colliery, £9024 .. 1,.618,356
1947.. 163,037 6 p.c. 4|p.c. 105,000 58,037 1,676,393
Reduction res. subsids., £3802.. 1,672,591
Unexplained to genl, res,, £35,985 1,708,576
Written off colliery, £9212 .. 1,699,364
1948.. 167,912 6 p.c. 5 p.c. 115,000 . . 1,752,276
* After eliminating outside equities.*
This big holding co. has £2,250,000 of
capital to feed, of which the quarter-
million carries a fixed cumulative 6 p.c.
The prefs. have had their full require-
ments regularly, and over the last dozen
years ord. divs, have averaged 4.7 p.c.
Under existing conditions it is difficult to
say when better than last year’s 5 p.c. need
be expected. In Dec,, 1948, £3,425,265
of the parent’s £4,167,433 of assets was
represented by shares in subsidiaries
(£2,016,056) and other cos. (£943,809)
and Commonwealth bonds (£465,400).
The remaining £742,168 comprised H.S.’s
own freeholds, plant, etc. (£168,140),
stock (£60,055), book debts (£398,930)
and cash, etc. (£115,043).
A year ago shareholdings included:
Subscribed H.S.’s
Capital. Holding.
Australian Steamships £1,850,092 £1,849,997
Australian Sugar .. 207,912 165,708
Caledonian Collieries I 464,295 pref. 325,068 pref.
Caledonian Collieries.. j 1)Q25) 5 9 9 ord . 869,550 ord.
Invincible Colliery .. 104,000 67,821
B.H.P. .. . . 13,885,012 354,180
Southern Port, Cement | |“;|«g* “g***
Southern Blue Metal 248,000 50,000
A. Goninan & Co. .. 179,262 36,759
First four on the list are subsidiaries, for
which H.S. acts as managing and selling
agent, and their figures are incorporated
in the consolidated accounts, summarised
in the introductory table after deducting
outside equities.
Over the last four years declared net
earnings have been made up in this way:
r-' —P rofit
Claimed Previous
for Year. Years. Total.
1945 .. £73,830 £49,886 £123,716
1946 .. 116,725 47,209 168,934
1947 .. 132,091 30,946 163,037
1948 ~ 86,144 81,768 167,912
Profit in respect of previous years is
mainly subsidies on shipping and
coal. Without these the shipping
co. would have shown a “substan-
tial” loss and earnings from coal
would have been greatly reduced last
term. This is evident from the collapse
of profit from the year’s trading, etc.,
due to the pressure of rising costs against
a more rigid background of controlled
coal prices and freights. In addition to
the £167,912 (up £4875) of profit shown
last term, £35,985 dropped from some-
where into general reserves and £9212
was written off on account of recondition-
ing fire damage in the Caledonian Col-
liery. Taking these figures into consider-
ation, net amount available to H.Si.’s
shareholders from all sources was
£194,685 (up £27,746), which covered the
pref. div. and 8.9 p.c, on ord. capital as
against 7.5, 6.2 and 4.7 p.c. for the three
preceding years. The div. was lifted
from 4£ p.c. to 5 p.c.
Subsidies have been discontinued, and
no further retrospective payments are
due. With costs and freight rates as they
are, coastal shipping promises to remain
a poor relation. Under the new Federal
Slipping Act of 1949 the Government is
to set up a Commonwealth line, exempt
from income tax, and all ships in
the coastal trade are to be licensed
and replaced when 24-years-old by Aus-
tralian-built ones. The latter are to be
constructed for the Government and sold
to private enterprise at a figure equal to
approximately the cost of a similar vessel
built in British yards, provided the differ-
ence doesn’t exceed 25 p.c. of Australian
cost. Last year Australian Steamships
bought the 6300-ton cargo vessel Balarr
for £487,500. It was built at Why alia
for the Australian Shipping Board, but,
since it was sold to the co. before
the new Act was passed, the question of
a subsidy on capital cost is obscure. What
is clear is that the scales are weighted
against private enterprise, as they are in
the coal industry, and the Government
line can be expected to operate at a loss,
to meet which the taxpayer will have to
dredge into his pocket.
As for the co.’s coal interests, Cale-
donian paid p.c, to the 6 p.c. prefs.
(reduced to 5 p.c. under the N.S.W.
Interest Reduction Act) for each of the
last three years, cleaning their slate to the
end of 1935. At December 18, 1948, there
was still £325,006 arrears of pref. divs.
to come, so the outlook for the ords. is
bleak. Invincible, which paid an aver-
age of 0.84 p.c. over the last eight years
—five of them dry ones —is to be
mechanised at an estimated initial cost
of £170,000, to be met partly by the co.,
and partly by H.S. and the Joint Coal
Board. Southern Portland has paid a
regular 8 p.c. on its prefs. and an aver-
age of 4} p.c. to the ords. over the last
11 years. 8.H.P., the sugar co. and A.
Goninan are sound profit-earners, but
their contribution to H.S.’s pool is small
in relation to capital. Returns from
H.S.’s own trading and agency activities
can be expected to improve.
The undertaking is well-ribbed finan-
cially :
Howard Smith and Subsidiaries.
1946. 1947. 1948.
Pref. capital .. £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Ord. capital .. 2,000,000 2,000,000 2,000,000
Outside capital* .. 460,886 454,884 467,825
Deposits .. .. 9,719 8,762 10,116
Sundry creditors .. 373,373 463,505 729,239
Workers’' compensation 41,363 41,848 42,502
Tax provision 145,686 158,131 135,890
Freeholds, etc. .. 418,821 409,389 404,185
Steamers, collieries,
plant, etc. .. 1,630,592 1,5465569 2,048,637
Shares other cos. .. 1,004,675 1,005,414 947,309
Stocks, etc. .. 200,773 234,103 252,662
Debtors .. 427,200 457,749 606,203
Public securities and
cash, etc. .. 1,101*834 1,473,783 1,200,446
* Including proportion of reserves.
The year’s growth of £502,068 in ships,
etc., and of £265,734 in sundry creditors
and drop of £273,337 in public securi-
ties, etc., mainly reflect purchase of the
Balarr. The contraction in the more-or-
less liquid surplus (£1,141,564) was
£351,825
The ords., which fetched 275. early in
1949, recently sold at 235., giving a return
of 4.3 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis. The
prefs. at 295. 6d. yield 4.1 p.c. Net
tangible cover is £l6 prefs. and 375. 6d.
ords.
Gibson and Howes, Ltd. (Q.)
To Re— Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.t
1943.. 32,321 84p.c.= 23,800 8,521 84,966
Prom inner reserves, £8,043 93,009
1944.. 25,810 84p.c.= 23,800 2,010 95,019
1945.. 29,521 84 „ „ 23,800 5,721 100,740
1946.. 24,380 84,, „ 23,800 580 101,320
1947.. 89,768 10 „ „ 28,000 11,768 113,088
1948.. 72,769 12 „ „ 33,600 39,169 152,257
f Not including depreciation reserve —£304,555 at
31/12/’4B.
Last year was one of the best in the
history of the industry. A record crush-
ing of cane and output of raws followed
ideal seasonal conditions, and a ready
market for the export surplus at a high
price enabled this efficient 44-year-old
Bundaberg grower and miller to show the
best profit yet. Also helpful was the
allocation of 920 migrants to the indus-
try ; this ensured Ml harvesting of the
bigger crop and a better run of the mills.
The Australian output of raws exceeded
the previous peak in 1939 by about 16,000
tons;
Australian Australian Exportable
Production. Consumption. Surplus.
Tons. Tons. Tons.
1939 .. 928,147 383,453 544,694
1943 .. 523,794 434,128 89,666
1946 .. 552,158 463,732 88,426
1947 .. 605,054 - 498,551 106,503
1948 .. 944,000 t * *
t Estimate. * Not yet available.
Gibson and Howes’ contribution to last
year’s pool was 33,600 tons (up 14,100
tons), which exceeded the allotted mill
peak by 10,600 tons. The average pool
price of Australian raws for 1948, how-
ever, is not expected to be much in ex-
cess of the previous year’s figure of £24
16s, a ton. Higher handling and other
charges all along the line will reduce
the pet price received for both export and
home consumption—£29 12s, 6d. and £24
a ton respectively in 1947. For similar
reasons, the increase of £4 13s. 4d. a
ton in the local retail selling price of
fines at end 1947 is now worth only 31s.
to growers and millers, whose own
operating costs have been bumped up by
the 40-hour week, increased price of
materials, etc,, and wage lifts aggregating
approximately 27 p.c. for the 14 months
to end February, 1949.
After allowing for depreciation, taxa-
tion and other contingencies, net earn-
ings (up £33,001) were 26 p.c. on capital
as against 14.2, 8.7, 10.5, 9.2, 11.5 and
9.3 p.c. back to 1942. The 1£ p.c. bonus
added to the 8£ p.c. div. in 1947 was
increased to 3£ p.c,, making 12 p.c. for
the year. Average distribution over
the last decade was 8.7 p.c., and for the
10 years before that 6.8 p.c.
Prospects of another good showing at
next balance are encouraging, thanks to
a favorable seasonal outlook and un-
changed British bulk-buying price (£S27
ss. a ton) for raws. Imperial preference
on sugar has been extended and Britain
has agreed to take Australia’s exportable
surplus of raws until August, 1952, the
price being subject to annual adjustment.
The long-term outlook for the industry is
obscure.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances:
1942. 1946. 1947. 1948.
Paid capital.. £280,000 £280,000 £280,000 £280,000
Depreciation
reserve .. 208,788 265,400 279,620 304,555
Liabilities* 103,560 89,862 117,129 189,630
Staff fund .. 6,944 9,481 13,593
Freeholds,
plant, etc... 512,540 564,087 591,682 612,158
Stocks.. .. 122,892 53,555 214,338 243,845
Government
securities, etc. 40,000 55,273 55,273 55,273
Sundry debtors 4,317 50,098 6,771 46,736
Cash, etc. .. 1,444 32,412 1,359 1,625
* Including provision for taxation.
Mill and irrigation efficiency give
balance-sheet figures a healthy tone. Over
the last two years £48,071 was added to
the book-value of fixed assets, £30,476
of it in respect of last term. The year’s
contraction in the more-or-less liquid
surplus (£144,246) was no more than
£6BBO.
Allowing for last year’s exceptional
influences, the market prices the pound
shares at 435. 9d. (40s, a year ago),
giving a return of 5.5 p.c. on a 12 p.c.
div. basis, or 4,5 p.c. on a 10 p.c. dis-
tribution. Cover is 30s. lid. in net tan-
gibles.
Caldwell’s Wines, Ltd. (Sydney)
r -1 Dividends To Re- De-
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, ficit.f
1942.. 13,751 12.4 p.c. 2J p.c, 8,652 5,099 11,420
To tax reserve, £7600.. .. .. 18,920
1943.. 18,514 6.2 p.c. 5 p.c. 8,203 10,311 8,609
1944.. 14,209 6.2 „ 5 „ 8,203 8,006 2,603
Reserves.!
1945.. 13,086 6.2 „ 5 „ 8,203 4,883 2,280
From staff reserve, £lO,OOO .. ~12,280
1946.. 16,702 6.2 p.c. 6 p.c. 9,238 7,464 19,744
1947.. 27,587 7.5 „ 7J ~11,424 16,163 35,907
1948.. 36,190 8 „ 8 ~ 12,186 24,004 59,911
t After deducting goodwill (now £26,000) from co.’s
published reserves.
Last is the best showing since the pub-
lic became interested in 1921, and the 8
p.c. div. is best of its kind for the past 20
years. The ords. averaged 10.6 p.c. for
the nine fat years to 1928, when the Gov-
ernment paid the industry a bounty of as
much as 4s. a gallon. Next six years
were dry ones ; slump and a host of other
troubles, including a falling bounty, cut
deeply into earnings. For the three years
after that divs. averaged 3 p.c., followed
by four more dry ones to 1941, during
which aggressive competition made it
difficult to squeeze much profit out of
the trade.
From that point the table picks up the
story. With war came quotas and fixed
selling prices, sales to the services in
operational and other areas took up the
slack caused by evaporation of the ex-
port trade to Britain, earnings improved
and a run of divs. averaging 5,5 p.c. was
paid, with widening margins, for the
seven years to the close of last accounts.
Over the last three years seasonal condi-
tions pushed up production, while paper
prosperity and shortage of beer and spirits
brpught improvement in local consump-
tion, A fall in exports last year followed
the steep lift in the British duty on Em-
pire and foreign wines.
Caldwell’s, which began collecting
champion ribbons and medals for its pro-
ducts in the 1880’s, substantially in-
creased output last term, thanks to the
bigger crop at the co.’s Corona and
Mandalsea vineyards and operation, for
the first time, of the new Yenda winery
and distillery, built at a cost of about
£30,000 to eliminate dependence on out-
siders for fortifying spirit, etc., and to
reduce costs. Sales, helped by a large
controlled trade, bounded along, too.
After allowing £14,370 (down £5630)
for taxation and £4730 (up £2179) for de-
preciation, the net result was £8630
stronger at £36,190. That covered the
prefs.’ legal requirements (they are sub-
ject to the N.S.W. Interest Reduction Act)
and 31.2 p.c, on the £103,398 of ord.
capital, compared with 23.7,13.2, 9.7,11.3
and 14.9 p.c. back to 1943. The careful
board added half a point to the div.,
making it 8 p.c. Nearly twice as much as
distributed was put on the shelf, lifting
reserves £59,911 in excess of goodwill
(£25,000) and making the improvement
£78,831 over the last six years.
Last year’s growth in the more-or-less
liquid surplus (£68,458) was £26,303:
1939. 1946. 1947. 1948.
Paid capital.. £148,155 £152,326 £152,826 £152,326
Overdraft .. 43,365
Creditors .. 55,256 35,413 29,144 48,848
Tax provision 47,822 51,731 31,630
Staff funds.. 5,885 9,647 8,690
Freeholds .. 71,777 88,379 106,963 110,985
Leaseholds 38,287 31,921 31,281 31,705
Plant .. 22,637 22,523 17,741 23,194
Stocks .. 47,054 70,402 81,279 109,120
Debtors ~ 25,908 23,423 18,660 26,904
Cash, etc. .. 19,819 82,763 32,738 21,602
The addition of £27,841 to stocks and
£8244 to debtors’ balances reflects ex-
panded operations.
What the future holds for the trade is
difficult to say at the moment. Much de-
pends upon whether local consumption
holds around its present level, upon re-
vival of the export trade, which in turn
depends upon a more substantial reduc-
tion than the recent one in British duty
on Empire wines and/or development of
new export markets, as well as upon
what happens in connection with costs.
Meanwhile stocks are accumulating, and
another good season is in prospect.
To help finance additions at Yenda and
further expansion of business 50,000 new
£1 ords. are presently to be offered on
terms to be announced. At the current
price of 265. 9d. a one-for-two new issue
at par would reduce the net price of the
ords. to 245. 6d., after exercising the
rights. The return at 245. 6d. would be
6.5 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis, or 4.9 p.c.
on a 6 p.c. distribution. When the books
closed net tangible cover was 30s. 7d.
There has been no recorded business in
the pref§. for some time.
Permewan Wright, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Permewan Weight and Subsidiary.
1942 ~ 16,252 7 p.c. = 14,000 2252 120,774
Taxes charged to reserves, £2OOO .. 118,774
1943 ~ 16,392 6i p.c. = 13,000 3392 122,166
1944 .. 17,617 7 „ „ 14,000 8617 125,783
1945 .. 31,179 9 „ „ 18,000 1 1n
To doubtful debts, £2389 .. | 10,790 136,673
1946.. 32,725 11 p.c. = 22,000 1 -.„ „ g 8
To doubtful debts, £4OOO .. | 6,725 143,298
1947 .. 39,153 10 p.c. = 20,833 1 ]
Premiums, new issue, £12,500 I ..
To doubtful debts, £6OOO .. f 23,820 167,118
To Red Cross, £l,OOO .. I
1948 .. 48,335 10 p.c. = 25,000 { ioo aro
To doubtful debts, £BOOO .. J 15,335 182,453
Share premiums, £53,625 .. ~ 236,078
Fire loss, £9814 .. .. .. .. 226,264
1949 .. 60,700 10 p.c. = 29,383 7 , fi7 o Kn
To doubtful debts. £7OOO .., j 24,367 250,631
Earnings of this 65-year-old carrying,
station-supply, produce, agency and
general merchandising business, which
operates mostly in the back-country in
Victoria and N. S. Wales, have fluctuated
according to seasons, prices and other


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES.
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors : THOMAS A. MAONEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman ; Aljred S. White.
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
'Phone: B.W. 8361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney
Branches in All States.
A
ar'
/.H E
This responsibility
is yours
Your beneficiaries have every right to expect that your
estate will be handled with the utmost care. If your
judgment is faulty, imprudent administration can endanger
assets built up by your energy and foresight. However, it
is a simple matter to provide competent control: the
appointment of Burns Philp Trust Company as executor
or trustee ensures that your beneficiaries will be protected
at every turn.
A copy of "Hands That Never Leave the Wheel" will bo
forwarded on request. Full details of the Company's many
services are given in this interesting booklet.
DIRECTORS:
James Burns Joseph Mitchell P. T. W. Black Eric Priestley Lee
MANAGER: L, S. Parker SECRETARY: E. R. Overton. A.F.I.A.
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR • TRUSTEE • AGENT
Constituted by Special Act of the N.S.W. Parliament.
Head Office: 7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Tel.: BU 5901 Box 543, G.P.0., Sydney
BP2-49
as „ e#* e
1 1
J'4
'V
cK, q
%\Wv c ,q-
Sd
Ml
bl&ck&whi^^
5L b s" a . n ansc?l-
S5*.»5S
SK SS4< ,fc ‘**
BLACKWHITE
SCOTCH WHISKY
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
Position Wanted.
EXPORT-IMPORT MERCHANT in Mel-
bourne, 35 years of age and 17 years in
the trade, is interested in a position with
prospects with an organisation who needs
a reliable worker with good overseas con-
nections and agencies.—No. 328, Advt.
Dept., Bulletin Newspaper, Sydney.
Mutual Life and
Citizens' Assurance
Co., Ltd.
Martin Place and Castlereagh
Street, SYDNEY.
Founded 1886*
There is no better way of pro-
viding cash for your family, or
for yourself when you retire,
than by taking out a policy with
The M.L.C.
Assets Exceed £56,000,000.
Annual Income Exceeds
£8,500,000.
M. C. Alder, A.1.A., Gen. Manager.
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
THE AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
Riter
Cylinder
GUTHRIDGE
PTY., LIMITED,
10-12 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
Scientists Fight
sugar cane pests
m
Much of the efficiency of the Australian cane sugar
industry is due to the progress made in fighting cane
pests and diseases by scientific measures. Although the
CSR Co. does not grow cane, except experimentally, it
maintains a staff of trained field investigators continually
doing research and practical work on these problems.
m
m
mm
>■ :<&>
m
mm
m t
The results of the work done by CSR Co. scientists is
made available free to the farmers who grow the cane.
Co-operation like this by various branches of the industry
has made the Australian sugar industry one of the most
efficient in the world.
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
Q. Are all modern Insulations pretty much alike?
A, No. There’s a tremendous difference. Some insulations
are three and four times more efficient than others,
B. I. SLAGWOOL for instance stops heat more
effectively than a concrete wall 12 feet thick • It also
keeps in warmth in winter better than does any other
Insulating material.
Q. When are the comforts of an insulated home
most appreciated—winter or summer?
A. In hot weather. B. I. Insulation keeps homes up to 15 °
< cooler—in cold weather, it makes hard-to-heat homes easy
to heat—and retains the heat in' the home at an even
temperature.
Q. Where can I get fullest possible information
regarding modern insulation methods of build-
ings . k . homes in particular.
A. A telephone call to any of the Bradford Insulation offices
at the foot of this advertisement will bring you a court-
eous reply and full information.
BI.GI-6.
uz
wrtSi
TELEPHONES: SYDNEY M 3038 • MELBOURNE MD 3506
BRISBANE B 3604 • ADELAIDE C 7257 • PERTH L 2107
CWOO*:
St A.
conditions. Since war ended the
seasons have been mixed, but
prices for agricultural and pas-
toral products, and everything
else, have soared, the period has
been one of scarcities, and the
board has followed a policy of
expansion by absorption and
otherwise. Two more businesses
were bought last term (one at
Pennant Hills and the other at
Castle Hill, N.S.W.), making the
number of branches 46, of which
25 are in Victoria, 20 N. S.
Wales and one S. Aust.
In these circumstances expand-
ing turnover has more than taken
care of mounting costs, and net
earnings climbed from £17,617
for the year to end January,
1944, to £60,700 last term, when
the improvement was £18,665.
Over the same period the div.
stepped up from 7 p.c. to 10 p.c.,
and £115,000 of fresh capital,
which brought with it £66,125
of share premiums, was gathered.
The last issue (£65,000 in May,
1948) carried a premium of
16s. 6d. a share (£53,625), which
makes the 10 p.c. div. worth
only 5.4 p.c. on that lot.
A 16 p.c. increase lifted turn-
over to a record £3£ million last
term. The improvement in gross
earnings (£439,382) was £67,470,
of which exes. (£381,287) took
£56,044. Allowing for reserve
adjustments, the net result was
20.6 p.c. on average capital, com-
pared with 19.3, 18.7, 15.5, 8.8
and 8 p.c. back to 1943. After
paying the 10 p.c. div. and
whisking £7OOO away to inner
reserves, the £24,367 that re-
mained lifted visible accumula-
tions to £250,631. So share-
holders’ funds (capital and re-
serves combined) need turn in
only 5.5 p.c. to cover 10 p.c. on
capital alone.
Under the co.’s policy of
partial self-insurance, a fire loss
of £9814 (about half the risk in-
volved) in connection with the
Bourke (N.S.W.) branch was
charged against the insurance re-
serve (now £60,572). A further
fire loss of £4020 at the co.’s
Horsham (Vic.) premises was
wholly covered by outside con-
tract.
The year’s new share capital
and premium money, together
with an extra £49,229 from
sundry creditors, etc., went into
stocks (up £102,006), book debts
(up £57,883) and property and
plant (up £29,082):
P.W. and Sub.
1946. 1948. 1949.
& Si &
Paid capital.. 200,000 250,000 315,000
Sundry-
creditors, etc. 241,108 444,750 493,979
Taxation prov. 69,194 87,127 92,327
Property and
plant .. 136,602 197,323 226,405
Book debts . . 284,313 391,271 449,154
Stock .. 213,905 350,561 452,567
Shares other cos. 4,800 4,800 4,800
Cash, etc. .. 26,515 32,877 34,761
Including tax provision, there
was still 20s. lid. of outside
money at risk in the business for
every pound belonging to share-
holders when the books closed.
The improvement in the more-
or-less liquid surplus (£355,976)
was £108,344.
At 41s. 9d. the pound shares,
backed by 355. lOd. in net
tangibles, return a satisfactory
4.8 p.c. on a 10 p.c, div. basis.


Business.Rollery.Etc.
Dividends and Share Prices
In spite of the large amount
of money held by the public in
Australia, there has been a steep
fall in industrial-share prices
since the beginning of 1949. This
has in some measure been be-
cause of a drop in metal and
raw-material prices overseas;
but the continuing lack of
strength is more the result of
our sopialistically deranged in-
ternal economy.
While the basic wage has
.risen from 78s. to around 1245.
since the outbreak of war, the
rise being based on cost-ofdiv-
ing increases and “prosperity”
loading, dividends paid by pub-
lic companies over the past two
years have averaged just about
the same rate as they did in
1939. Shareholders have not
been compensated with a 58 p.c.
increase in their income as the
basic-wage earner has. More-
over, in 1939 there was a full
rebate to shareholders of taxa-
tion paid by the
the shareholder’s personal tax-
rate exceeded the company rate.
Abolished as a war measure,
this rebate has never been re-
stored. Present dividend rates
are also to this extent less valu-
able in the hands of share-
holders than they were in 1939.
Again, on most new issues
made over the past four years
shareholders have had tq con-
tribute a heavy premium where
their stock has stood well above
par in the market. While this has
added to the funds employed in
industry, it has not correspond-
ingly added to the returns of the
investor. One thing is certain,
and it is that shareholders in
public companies have not, as a
body, participated more than
fractionally in the paper-money
prosperity for which the Chifley
Government takes so much
credit to itself. And they have
to compete with the high money-
income groups when they come
to pay their living costs.
Obvious discouragement
among investors has been seen
in recent sharemarket prices. A
higher yield has been asked by
investors when buying stock in
concerns with static dividend-
rates. Leaders like B.H.P. have
suffered a severe fall in the mar-
ket, and the whole share-list has
taken on a hesitant appearance.
Prices of many stocks since 1939
have certainly risen in keeping, to
a certain extent, with the depre-
ciation in the value of Australian
paper money, but returns from
these investments have not cor-
respondingly advanced, how-
ever much investors have hoped
that the position would gradu-
ally reach a state of equilibrium.
Price-control, heavy taxation,
Government interference and
trade-union obstruction have
been responsible for the loss of
balance between the investment
side of industry and its other
aspects. The people whom the
Government has been pamper-
ing through its price-control,
vote-buying activities financed by
taxation on industry, and its sup-
port of the 40-hour week are
the very people who are failing
to do anything like their proper
share to maintain living
standards for all by doing a fair
job of production for a fair day’s
pay. The investment side of in-
dustry has had its rights re-
stricted in order to divert more
of the national income to wage-
earners, but instead of this mak-
ing better citizens out of wage-
earners it has so far made them,
as a body, a great deal worse.
Many have merely become more
hungry in their demands for
greater benefits .with less effort.
This is principally because they
are badly led politically and
within their unions. The Chifley
Socialists have taught their ad-
herents to be political mendi-
cants, and the Communists have
elaborated on this teaching in
order to hurry the breakdown of
industry in Australia. The in-
vestor who wants to see the eco-
nomic picture in Australia today
in its true light must not fail to
observe this “Labor”-Communist
feature. He will be foolish if
lie merely regards overseas price-
movements as being the key to
the situation. Overseas prices
would be a more predominating
factor if internal production
levels and costs of production
were stable. As it is, internal
factors at present are even more
important than the external,
especially as nearly all overseas
prices are still much higher than
they were when the war ended,
let alone when it began.
The post-war sharemarket has
based its prices of good indus-
trial stocks on hopes of a change
in the socialistic, “controlled”
and undisciplined labor position
of the present day. Even on last
week’s price for B.H.P. shares
(6s. lower than this year’s
highest) the market, in accept-
ing a yield of only slightly more
than 3 p.c., looks for a higher
distribution to shareholders in
the future. Until the strangle-,
hold of Communist-led unions
in the coal and transport indus-
tries is broken, however, B.H.P.
is unlikely to be able to pro-
duce at a fully profitable
capacity. And most other con-
struction industries will, in turn,
be depending on B.H.P, steel in
order to keep their plants going.
It is to be hoped that even
Mr. Chifley, the pigheaded
Socialist, is beginning to see the
absurd position into which
Communist-ridden Socialism is
driving industry. The whole
community is beginning to suffer
from the restriction of private
enterprise and strength given to
the arm of the industrial anar-
chists. We are not getting
enough production to satisfy
either the consumer or the in-
vestor. There must be a return
to a sensible appreciation of the
profit motive, of the thrift motive,
of the hard-work motive. There
must be a fair deal for all, in-
cluding the investor, who takes
more risks than anyone else, and
whose industries have always
worked more efficiently than
Government-owned ones.
Mr. Chifley may have felt
quite smug about the buoyant
sharemarket which has been the
rule for some years. He has ex-
pressed some concern about the
recent slump, and even went so
far as to suggest a “staggering”
of new issues. But there will be
no trustworthy strength in the
sharemarket until investors feel
that they are going to be allowed
a return on their outlay which
will justify a long-term invest-
ment in an industry for its in-
come-earning attractions alone.
Present prices of shares are
largely based on inflation in in-
dustrial-equipment and -estab-
lishment costs and on the
amount of work which industry
has ahead of it if only allowed
to get on with the job in an ener-
getic and profitable way. Being
permitted to get on with that job
is mainly a matter of internal
politics and economics, not over-
seas price-levels.
A Conversion Failure
Maoriland’s £29,300,000 in-
ternal conversion loan was a
flop. Out of 50,600 stock-
holders, 43,223 asked for cash
(£14,529,370), and only 7377
were willing to renew. Many of
the unwilling invested as a
patriotic duty in the war years,
mainly in small sums, and be-
cause they hadn’t the investment
habit weren’t likely to tie up
their money for another term
once they were giyen the chance
to cash in ; but it must have sur-
prised Finance Minister Walter
Nash and other M.L. financial
powers that the number who
longed to get out was so big,
six out of every seven, with a
goodly sprinkling of folk fairly
comfortably off.
There were good reasons for
the failure. “Loose money”
hasn’t been so plentiful in late
months, though Maorilanders
probably have as much as is
good for them; a choice of 3
p.c. long-dated (1961-64) or 2\
p.c. short-dated (1954-55) isn’t
much of a catch in these days
when the pound has shrunk in
buying-power, in spite of M.L.’s
20 p.c. exchange cut; earnings
from investment income are
taxed at a penal rate 33| p.c.
higher than ordinary income-tax
levels; and in the background
is rising feeling against controls.
State extravagance, interference
with business, and Socialistic
trends.
Cos. are trying to trim sail,
but so far the Government has
turned a blind eye to file red
fight. It’s a poor lookout for
private enterprise and thrift if
the crushing tax-load grows
more burdensome as incomes
contract. Early in March
“Labor” planners were jubilant
when a £7 million loan was con-
verted in London from 3i to 3
p.c., but that win was due to
contraction in the supply of N.Z.
stocks on John Bull’s market
after a few years of heavy re-
demption. Internally, M.L.’s
public debt, in contrast, has been
soaring. Maorilanders evidently
have decided at last that the
time has arrived to call a halt
to Government borrowing.
Waugh and Josephson, Ltd.
Requirements of Allied Works
and the U.S. Army in war-time
gave Waugh and Josephson big
opportunities in the manufac-
ture of motor-graders and earth-
moving equipment, and the
company’s success was reflected
in some remarkable profits from
1942 to 1945. But almost im-
mediately after the war the
board came to a decision to
abandon manufacturing alto-
gether. It will specialise in sell-
“Sittin' here I could almost declare a dividend meself."
ing and servicing the products
of the Caterpillar Tractor Co.
(U.S.A.), for which it has held
franchises in N. S. Wales and
Queensland since 1934. The
Caterpillar agencies had become
Waugh and Josephson’s main
interest before the war, although
it had a long manufacturing
record dating back to 1880. The
recent decision to abandon all
independent production was in-
fluenced partly, as last week’s
prospectus indicates, by the
policy of the Caterpillar prin-
cipals. From July 1, 1949, the
co. will also distribute John
Deere tractors in N. S. Wales
and Queensland. “Deere and
Co. works in complete harmony
with the Caterpillar Tractor Co.”
Post-war earnings from the
American franchises alone have
been striking enough. For the
three years to June 30, 1948,
they averaged £58,178, after
allowing tax at the current rates
for a public co.; and until re-,
cently paid capital was £150,007.
(In the previous four terms the
average net profit would have
been £70,607 on the same hypo-
thetical tax basis.) Since 1946,
dividends totalling £273,762 —
mostly tax-free have been
handed out.
In converting to a public
company, the board has issued
75,000 new £1 shares to out-
siders at a ss. premium. To-
gether with a par issue of
£74,993 to the original share-
holders in March, this brings
capital to £300,000 (none pre-
ferential). On that basis each
share will have net tangible
backing of 275. 7d. according to
the books, in which franchises
do not figure. Adjusted net
profits since 1946 would have
averaged 19.3 p.c. on the higher
capital.
In its present non-manufactur-
ing role, the company is inti-
mately affected by the dollar
question. Recent profits have
been achieved while it is only
satisfying “a fraction” of the
demand for tractors and
machinery, although increased
dollar allocations have been
made from time to time for the
special needs of primary pro-
ducers and public authorities;
and the demand is exceptional
in the present agricultural boom.
Less affected by dollars are the
company’s growing maintenance
and service divisions. Next
month the’board hopes to move
into newly-built headquarters
at Alexandria (Sydney), and
later it proposes to erect new
country branches in N. S. Wales
and Queensland.
Maoriland Hotel Charges
Rising costs and the 40-hour
week have at last beaten all
efforts to hold hotel tariffs at
pre-war rates in New Zealand.
After long kicking against the
standstill, the United Licensed
Victuallers’ Association won the
day on May 2, when the Price
Tribunal came to fight with a
fist of increases, based on grad-
ing of hotels, with three “luxury”
houses, at the top of the pyra-
mid, allowed a ceiling of 33 s. 6d.
a day. At lower levels there’s
more room, but M.L. has a
terrific squeeze at holiday-time.
The scale of maximum tariffs is:
luxury hotels, 335. 6d. daily;
“five-star plus,” 31s. 6d.; five-
star, 305.; four-star plus, 285.;
four-star, 265. 6d.; three-star
plus, 255.; three-star, 235.; two-
star, 205.; one-star, 18s.; others,
16s. Private bathrooms are five-
bob extra and private showers
another half-crown. Meals
served in bedrooms or private
sitting-rooms cost Is. more, and
Is, 6d. a time is the charge for
morning or afternoon tea, or
supper.
Before these rises, knight
Ernest Davis, spokesman for
hotel and brewery interests,
claimed that M.L. charges for
board and lodging were the
lowest in the Empire, probably
in the world; this for “a good
standard of solid comfort and
efficient service, without frill or
fussiness.”
The 40-hour week has nettled
tourists by making meal-hours
inelastic, but they haven’t all
been critical. Rigidity might be
overcome when staffing condi-
tions ease, but there’s no sign of
improvement yet. There was
careful timing in the tariff move,
which came the week after the
Licensing Control Commission
was appointed under last year’s
new laws, but before the com-
mission got into harness. After
chewing over hotel charges for
so long, bureaucrats must have
realised they couldn’t toss the
whole problem over to the com-
mission to deal with in its cradle
stage.
There’s plenty to keep the
commission out of mischief for
months when it gets down to
business on June 1. Members
are A. M. Goulding (ex-magis-
trate), chairman, L. C. Nisbet
(accountant), and B. Barrington
(ex-Lt.-Col. and fire-risk inspec-
tor). Twenty-five new hotel
licences will be due to be issued
to overtake arrears, and after
that Maorilanders will be al-
lowed five new licences for every
50,000 rise in population. To-
day’s 1098 hotels in N.Z. aren’t
evenly spread, so the commis-
sion will have a redistribution
problem on its hands. Derelict
goldmiiiing areas, with more
pubs than they can support,
must surrender licences to go-
ahead young towns where the
few publicans who got in early
have been coining money.
Difficult Trading
After 10 years of import-con-
trol, New Zeafand has settled in
a rut as a “second-rate market,”
declare Dominion retailers in
taking stock of their position to-
day. Bumper exports, the “new-
look” pound, and the 40-hour
five-day week, “full employ-
ment,” and “local-industry-first”
policy aren’t helping them. They
say the big blunder all along has
been in building the rickety sys-
tem of control on a money basis
rather than goods. Quality has
been sacrificed to quantity, with
usually not too much of that,
according to their line of argu-
ment, which goes something like
this: Importers, enmeshed in red-
tape and restrictions, must make
their import licences spin out, so
they dare not use them for pricey
articles, which would leave
shelves bare for a good part of
the year. Shops must be stocked
somehow, and as all traders are
in the same boat they all behave
in much the same way. This,
’tis said, they must do to live.
In 10 years they’ve all learnt
to toe the line. Now control is
so rigid that even lohn Bull’s
growing output can’t reach
Maorilanders. This year import
quotas are tighter than last, and
the 1947-48 fling, when it seemed
that import austerity was on the
way out, has left no trace behind
it. M.L.’s Labor planners, with
eyes fixed on London funds,
today not much more than half
as big as a year ago, are scared
to take the brakes off; they’re
throttling down as grimly as in
war days, and Maorilanders are
having another round of scarcity
and shortages. Instead of bold-
ness and nippiness in trade, M.L.
has “cumbersome, dilatory,
costly, wasteful, and inefficient”
muddling along under, a bureau-
cracy nearly paralysed by fear of
what might be round the corner.
All Maorilanders pay the
piper. Workers are drawn away
from the country, source of
M.L.’s lifeblood, to warm, shel-
tered spots in hothouse industries
that have taken root, and even
grown fat, behind import bar-
riers. This is hurting lohn Bull
as well as M.L., and Britain
could ask some awkward ques-
tions if it wanted to put the
Dominion on the spot. With the
free run of Britain’s market and
highly lucrative bulk selling-con-
tracts for meat and butter, M.L.
is playing dog-in-the-manger.
According to J. Malcolm
Newman, who started Tableland
Tin Dredging, Ltd., and who is
associated with Alluvial Mining
Equipment, Ltd., and Alluvial
Prospectors, Ltd., a million
pounds is to be spent installing
two tin dredges on the Upper
Herbert River (Q.) Mr. New-
man, who had a long working-
arrangement with the Prattens
in Malaya and elsewhere,
says there’s still £5O million-
worth of tin on the Her-
bert and its upper tributaries.
Tableland Tin, operating on Re-
turn Creek, near Mt. Garnet,
now provides about two-thirds
of the Commonwealth’s tin re-
quirements, which total 2500
tons a year. He expects the new
dredges to “obviate the present
necessity to import tin” and to
meet increased demands when
B.H.P. begins its proposed tin-
plate works. Floated in 1937,
Tableland Tin in its early life was
a disappointment on the dredging
and financial sides, though ore
values were pretty close to New-
man’s estimates. When the
Prattens took an interest in the
management a world of differ-
ence occurred, and divs. on all
shares have since been paid. The
price of the metal, of course,
has been well above prospectus
estimates.


LIFE
STEADY PROGRESS
EXTRACTS FROM ANNUAL REPORT
FOR 1948:
A NEW BUSINESS RECORD established by the issue of 9.433 Policies
*T assuring £5,921,134.
ASSETS INCREASED BY £1,104,653 after providing £20,950 for
-JL depreciation. £lOO,OOO to write down assets and £lO,OOO for
deferred repairs.
ASSETS NOW TOTAL £17,403,263
Special Additional Reserves amount to £700,000
Premium Income amounted to £1,649,605
Death and Accident Claims and Endowment
Assurances, maturing during 1948, totalled £730,400
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
(Incorporated in New South Wales in 1878)
HEAD OFFICE:
CITY MUTUAL BUILDING, 60-66 HUNTER STREET. SYDNEY
i nnunUDtlD 1111 II
nm on mi HQ'ii ii n
» ton
111
CITY MUTUAL
maintains
Board of Directors:
R. H. TRUMAN (Chairman)
HENRY E. COLEMAN
Hon. T. G. MURRAY, M.L.C.
Dr. R. J. TAYLOR
w. p. McGrath
C. A. RALPH, General Manager


m
«
iH
The greatest
safety measure
for engines..
Let your engine down
lightly. Protect it thoroughly,
by lubricating it with Shell
Motor Oil. Shell brings you every
post-war improvement in lubrication
quality. It protects every moving
part of your engine—improves its
performance —prolongs its life.
There is a correct Shell Oil or Grease
for every part of every make and
model of car. Ask for Shell, the
greatest safety measure, and see that
you get it.
for lubrication safety—say
SHELL MOTOR OIL
AL49IH
The
Shell Company of Australia
(Incorporated in Great Britain)
SHELL
Better for School Books
They stand the rough
and tumble. They're lighter
and easier to carry.
Ask first for
I
1 i
• m
MAOFS/
FOBS SHERINGTON LTD.
Mfll.lll.lMH
the
mwm
Favourite
f m the ALL
SQUARE
BOTTLE £
G
ILBEYS
W
W
GIN
G 6125
t The OLD formula in the NEW bottle. j
GILBEY’S, the Gin of
International fame—in the
internationally famous
SQUARE bottle.
Gilbey’s square bottle is
recognized throughout the
world as the distinctive con-
tainer of the world’s most
distinctive Gin.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
UNCLE SAM AND THE JAPS.
A further interpretation of
U.S. policy towards Japan, given
by “U.S. News and World Re-
port” Far Eastern editor Joseph
Fromm in a reoent question-
and-answer interview:
Q. —What about Japan ?
A. —Our [U.S.] new policy
seems to be to forget about re-
form and put recovery first in
Japan, It seems to me the
primary objective of U.S. policy
in Japan is, first, to get Japan
off the American dole and,
secondly, keep down the Com-
munists.
But almost everybody recog-
nises that a self-sufficient Japan
requires the co-operation of the
countries of Asia, particularly
Manchuria. That is the main
source of soybeans, coal, iron
ore, cotton and wool. The
whole Japanese economy in the
past —Manchuria was the back-
bone of it.
Manchuria is Communist
now. They aren’t going to trade
with Japan. And the Chinese
Communists aren’t going to co-
operate in trade with Japan if
there is any hint that America
is building the place up as a
military Power. The same thing
is true in the Philippines. It is
political suicide there to advo-
cate trade with Japan.
The President of the Philip-
pines was upset about it when I
talked with him. He said:
“You’re building up a reaction-
ary Japan as a base against
Russia. You’re buying dubious
allies. We fear a resurgent
Japan far more than we fear
Russia.”
I think these reactions are
largely a result of our shift in
policy during the last 18 months.
Q. —There have been almost
no reparations?
A. —That’s right. Certainly it
has been to a large extent
Russia’s fault. But also on our
part, we haven’t desired to have
reparations.
There is a great conflict in our
policy. On the one hand, the
State Department says our only
objective is to make Japan self-
sufficient. But then a commit-
tee of engineers hired by the
Army made its report on repara-
tions and economic reconstruc-
tion, and people in Asia were
flabbergasted. This report came
out and advocated the retention
of practically all pre-war Japan’s
industrial capacity—a capacity
that the U.S., in early policy,
admitted included a tremendous
amount of what they call “obvi-
ous excess capacity.”
And people out there began
to wonder. If, as we had §aid
before, so much industry was
“obvious excess,” why was it
suddenly necessary to retain it
in Japan if our policy is only
to develop a self-sufficient and
democratic country?
Q. —Is it possible the events
in China have caused a policy
switch in Japan ?
A. —Yes. I am sure that we
have switched the emphasis in
Japan as a result of that Appa-
rently we haven’t decided yet
what we want to do. In other
words, one branch of the Gov-
ernment says we want Japan to
be self-sufficient, and then the
Army indicates we want Japan
to be a military base. *
We’ve got to decide whether
we want Japan as a military
base. If we do, then I think
we’ll have to subsidise the eco-
nomy indefinitely. Because, if
that is U.S. policy, we won’t get
the co-operation of China, or the
Philippines, or Australia, They
are not going to assist in the
development of a militaristic
Japan.
Q. —In case a war came,
would the Japanese people be
America’s allies ?
A.—l would say, the way the
political trend in Japan is go-
ing now, that in five years you
will see the working-class vio-
lently opposed to America, and
the small group of politicians and
former war-lords on the side
of the U.S. Whether the Japan-
ese people would fight for us, I
would say, is extremely question-
able. Anyway, there would be
a very effective fifth-column, be-
cause the Communists have
some extremely capable leaders,
and they are well organised.
Iron-Curtain Justice.
By a quaint twist of irony, the
Yugoslav humor publication
“Jez” —maybe never having
heard the proverb about pots and
kettles —has had a crack at its
neighbor iron-curtain country
Bulgaria over Bulgaria’s notion
of a “fair trial.” “Jez’s” satire,
as reprinted in the U.S.:
Judge: What is your political
affiliation?
Accused: Communist.
Judge: That means you are a
Yugoslav, You also admit this.
Very good.
Accused: What kind of an
admission are you talking
about? I am only answering
Judge; Wonderful. Secretary,
write, “The accused admits all
the main points of the accusa-
tion and is prepared to answer
for all crimes committed.”
Accused: Scandalous. This is
vulgar. n(
Judge: Secretary, the accused?
. stated he is aware that his deeds
were scandalous and vulgar.
Accused, tell me, do you know
where the seat of the American
Government is located?
Accused: Naturally, in Wash-
ington.
Judge: ft appears that you
are well informed of the condi-
tions in the Imperialists’ camp.
Of course. Secretary, write:
“The accused, by “his own ad-
mission, had-close ties with the
American from
which *>. received” Wait
a moment, secretary. How many
dollars did you receive, accused?
Accused; I didn’t receive any
dollars.
Judge; Very good. Continue,
secretary: “From whom he re-
ceived orders for espionage, but
he complains that he wasn’t
paid in dollars.”
Accused: I will unmask all
of you at the public trial.
Judge: Be at ease. We don’t'
need publicity. We can con-
clude all this at a closed trial.
France in India.
While British rule has had its
funeral orations at the London
conference, French India has
not only stood to witness that
passing, but has now, as London
“Times” editorially comments,
“taken on a new, and perhaps
unwelcome, importance.”
Thus far, the matter has been
“handled prudently” by both
France and India ; but the fact
remains that Indian nationalists
resent France being there. Con-
stantly, says the “Times,” they
denounce the French holding
“as the haunt of smugglers and
fugitive offenders against the
law. France, on the other hand,
prizes her Indian possessions.
They are relics of a glorious
chapter in French history and
the residence still of French
liberty and French civilisation.
After long and careful negotia-
tion the basis for understanding
has been found. An agreement
was reached last June. Now it
is left to the inhabitants to state
their preference, and December
11 has been fixed as the date
for a referendum.
“Each locality will conduct its
own referendum through its
municipal authorities in the pre-
sence of neutral observers. The
choice before the voters will be
to remain within the French
Union or to join India—or, in
theory at any rate, to become in-
dependent. There is one excep-
tion ; Chandernagore has already
declared itself overwhelmingly
in favor of joining India, and
France has wisely agreed that the
decision shall stand.”
Asiatic Rumblings.
Though the Atlantic Pact has
focused world attention on
Russia and Europe, U.S. ob-
servers are pointing to Asia for
developments “of even greater
influence on humanity’s destiny.”
Dius N. Y. “World-Telegram”
writer Edward J. Byng notes
that “the conference of 19
Asiatic States in New Delhi,
ostensibly devoted to the Indo-
nesian situation, actually laid
the foundation for a gigantic
Pan-Asiatic bloc three times as
big in territory as the U.S.A.
and seven times as populous.
America and Asia are likely to
discover that the new-born Pan-
Asia, inhabited by half the
world’s population and increas-
ingly conscious of its tremendous
power, soon may begin to eclipse
in influence both the Cominform
and the North Atlantic nations.”
The nations represented at the
New Delhi meeting all subscribe
in some degree or another to the
Jap-coined objective of “Asia
for the Asiatics,” and they sur-
prised Western observers with
“the totally unexpected ease”
with which they “hurdled the
powerful psychological barriers
that centuries-old religious strife
had set up.”
Before the possibilities sug-
gested by their imposing array
can be considered, Byng con-
cludes, it is necessary to realise
“the profound influence of re-
ligion on every thought of Asia’s
millions. This results in a deep-
set aversion to what Asiatics re-
gard as the materialistic inter-
pretation of life. Mainly for
this reason major parts of Asia
are inaccessible to the doctrines
of Marxism, and especially to
the irreligious attitude of Com-
munism. For the same reason
the masses of Pan-Asia decidedly
object to the industrialised pat-
tern of European and American
life.”
Few agree with Byng that
an Asiatic aversion to the
Communist creed is sufficient to
keep that creed out, “Christian
Science Monitor” correspondent
Ronald Stead giving a widely-
representative view in contending
“that it requires international co-
operation to defeat Communism
there. But it must be by Powers
which are prepared to co-oper-
ate to the utmost with the legiti-
mate and effective non-Com-
munist nationalists.
“The destinies of nearly
1,000,000,000 people are at
stake, not to mention the tenure
of Britain, the Netherlands and
France in colonial territories
vital to their national
economies.”
As instances, “Malayan rub-
ber exports are essential, if
Britain’s dollar gap is to be
closed, as they exceed all that
country’s other dollar-earning
resources put together. The
Netherlands cannot remain an
effective European Power with-
out the oil, rubber, tin and coffee
from Indonesia. France urgently
needs the rich raw-material
potential from Indo-China. Eas-
tern Asia, in short, is a supply
area essential for that West
European recovery that is ac-
counted the United State’s first
line of defence against Commun-
ism.”
Another typical example on
the same theme —N. Y.
“Times’s” chief correspondent in
Europe, C. L. Sulzberger:
“If France, the Netherlands and
Belgium were suddenly restricted
to their colonial territories (or
Britain to the United Kingdom
and the Dominions) the Mar-
shall Plan would swiftly end in
failure. If the Soviet Union
gained control of all China (and
probably thereafter Indo-China
and Malaya) it would be impos-
sible for the United States and
its allies ever to win a war
against the Soviet and its allies.”
On which the “Saturday


e m# 4
TVf
T
ZERO HOUR
Dawn, with ducks galore and ample supplies of
ELEY-KYNOCH shotgun cartridges. That’s the
recipe for a good day’s shooting. During the duck
season you need the best of ammunition. So ask
your storekeeper for supplies of . , .
ELEY-KYNOCH SHOTGUN CARTRIDGES
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
■ ■ ■ ■ T *- ,a
m
P
<&.
m
>s>
ICI
Evening Post” commented: “He
[Sulzberger] might have added
that the central objective of
Soviet strategy in the cold war
is, and has been for years, to cut
off Europe and America from
the vegetable and mineral wealth
of the Far East. That this ob-
jective is being achieved at an
alarming rate and with assistance
of a considerable body of sup-
posedly liberal Americans is one
of the wonders of the age.”
On U.S. (it should not have
omitted Com.-fawning Can-
berra) attempts “to make things
as difficult as possible for the
Dutch” in Indonesia, “S.E. Post”
further commented:
“We need back no reaction-
ary stooges in Asia, but even less
need we confirm the rising
Asiatic contempt for the West by
seeming to take the line that, in
any argument between the West
and the East, the East has got
to be right.....
“We cannot prevent collapse
in Europe if Europe is per-
manently to be denied access to
the treasures of Asia.” The first
step should be “to stop swallow-
ing the fiction that the ‘native
populations’ gain anything either
by driving capital and enterprise
away from their habitations or
by welcoming the new ‘popular
democratic’ exploitation from
M05c0w......
“If we could admit that, as
compared with Russian exploita-
tion, American, British or even
Dutch colonial activities are
about as ‘imperialistic’ as the
Salvation Army, a start could be
made toward realistic treatment
of the issue.”
Where Women Wear
’Em.
Both visiting and home-grown
observers of the U.S. have from
time to time noted the strong
matriarchal character of its
national life. They’ve called it
“the land where the men carry
the babies” ; where they “work
for their wives, not for the
other boss”; or where, as in O.
Henry’s choice bit of satire,
they lead the pampered poodle
around the park till, sometimes,
they happen to rebel.
However that may be, there’s
one highly important, and per-
haps surprising, section of the
American national scene where
women most decidedly do wear
the trousers.
Gabled reports on May 3 that
millionairess Mrs. Anita McCor-
mick is contributing most of the
cash to launch another New
York newspaper means an addi-
tion to the number of their
legion. As N. Y. “Times” edi-
torially commented a few weeks
back, 38 per cent, of the busi-
ness wealth of the U.S. is con-
centrated in the hands of the 200
of the largest corporations, and
“those corporations are largely
owned and financed by women.”
In fact, women own more
than 52 per cent, of the stock
of General Motors and 47 per
cent, of all railroad shares, and
they outnumber men as holders
of stock in United States Steel,
International Harvester (whence
came Mrs. McCormick’s mil-
lions), General Electric, Ameri-
can Telephone, the big Du Pont
concern and sundry others.
Altogether, women actually
control no less than 70 per cent,
of the privately-held wealth of
the U.S.A.
Sweden Stays Out.
One of the now very few
countries which have found that
neutrality, when it can be main-
tained, pays good dividends,
Sweden is sticking to the policy
that has kept it at peace since
the Congress of Vienna, with the
slight modification that its de-
fences have been improved
sufficiently to make any Soviet
aggression a tough job.
Comparing its apparent cau-
tion with Norway’s and Den-
mark’s open move into the Wes-
tern camp, a London “Times”
special correspondent in Scandi-
navia finds that “most Swedes
appear to have concluded that
their adherence to the Atlantic
Pact could bring them in the
measurable future no solid ad-
vantage which they do not in
any case command.” On the
other hand, they fear it would
provoke some form of Soviet
retaliation, “which might so in-
crease the tension in Scandinavia
as to force Sweden into a costly
and unpopular semi-mobilisa-
tion such as Turkey has thought
it wise to adopt. Protracted
mobilisation would be extremely
unpopular.”
A Swedish banker is quoted
as saying “We do not want a
fire insurance that increases the
risk of fire.” To which the Nor-
wegians and Danes reply that
Scandinavian neutrality “is
worth no more than the sand
into which the ostrich stuck its
head.”
For what “sympathies” may
—Baltimore (U.S.A.) “Sun.”
“AYEVANT TO BE ALON E."
be worth, the “Times” man
represents those of Sweden as
being “overwhelmingly with the
West... .It wants the West to
prevail.” In fact, the corres-
pondent—it could be a little
wishfully—goes so far as to de-
clare that Sweden “is even pre-
pared to emerge from hallowed
neutrality and gird up its own
loins for the battle, if battle
there must be; but it wants to
avoid doing this until there is
the starkest necessity and the
moment is most favorably
chosen.”
Historic Blunder.
A singular bit of recent his-
tory has come to light in an
article by U.S. Admiral
Zacharias in the unofficial
U.N.O. organ “United Nations
World.” The Admiral, an im-
portant war-time U.S. Intelli-
gence officer, reveals that
Russia’s entry against the Japs
was brought about by U.S, In-
telligence blundering.
He states that in 1944 the In-
telligence section of the U.S.
War Department drew up a re-
port on Japan. “It provided
what the joint chiefs regarded as
the best estimate of the complex
Far Eastern situation. Its pessi-
mism, its exaggeration of
Japanese potentialities made
Russian participation in the
Pacific war seem to them vir-
tually imperative. The joint
chiefs either had to reject the
estimate of their Intelligence ex-
perts or call for Russian aid.
They decided on the latter
course and thus unwittingly
stampeded Roosevelt into sup-
porting them.
“Later,” adds Admiral
Zacharias, “when I was directed
by the Secretary of the Navy to
draft an estimate of my own I
found out that the War Depart-
ment had prepared two esti-
mates rather than one —but
somehow the more accurate and,
from our point of view, opti-
mistic evaluation of Japanese
potentialities was pigeonholed by
a competitive Intelligence outfit
in the Assistant - Secretary’s
office which allowed only the
pessimistic report to go up to
the joint chiefs and through them
to Roosevelt.”
N. Y. “Sun” writer George E.
Sokolsky comments on the
Zacharias report: “Zacharias,
expert on Japan, advised against
Soviet participation in the
Pacific war, but he was ignored,
probably because he knew the
subject. In fact, nobody much
cared about the Far East, except
that they wanted Russia in—at
any cost. At Yalta Russia de-
manded the highest possible
price and got it. Incidentally,
those responsible for this crime
are still in control of U.S. mili-
tary policies.”
Dragnet Digest.
Optimist. —Anyway, the world’s
greatest optimist is now known. He’s
an American; a familiar name, too —
Thomas E. Dewey. Current U.S.
reports say he’s banking on his third
Republican Presidential nomination.
* * * *
Odd Air-lifts. —Some “strange prob-
lems” overcome in the Berlin air-lift,
as instanced in a London “Times”
leading article, included the dual dis-
covery that the Western sectors of
Berlin needed no less than 38 tons of
salt a day and that salt can’t safely
be carried by normal aircraft because
of its corrosive qualities. Yet Berlin
got its salt—carried either in flying-
boats or in special partners fitted
outside the fuselage of other aircraft.
Coal-sacks made another problem, a
sack lasting no more than “about
three turn-rounds,” and the daily lift
of 2500 tons of coal requiring 50,000
sacks —a daily loss of 17,000 sacks
and their replacement costing £50,000
a month.
* * * *
Significant Anniversary. —N. Y.
“Sun,” in a recent leading article;
“April 25 will continue to be what
it still is—a significant anniversary.”
It wasn’t, however,; speaking of
Anzac, but of the fact that on April
25, 1945, “the United Nations as-
sembled in San Francisco” to draft
the U.N.O. Charter. Still “significant”
appears the right woic -Gallipoli,
too, was a failure.
* * * *
France in Good Hands. —Paying a
tribute to France’s Robert Schuman,
in Paris, and Ambassador Henri
Bonnet, in Washington, Scripps-
Howard foreign editor William Philip
Simms states that one thing that has
emerged from recent Western negotia-
tions is that “French interests seldom
have been looked after better or have
been in abler hands.” If in those
negotiations either of the two “was
ever caught napping nobody in
Washington had ever heard of it.
Their long-range perception and logic
contributed vastly to the widely-
commented clarity and precision of
the Atlantic Pact.”
* * * *
High Cost of Yalta. —Assessed by
N. Y. “Sun” writer George E.
Sokolsky: “The current problems in
international relations, particularly
the so-called cold war, were manu-
factured at Yalta. The cost to man-
kind has been stupendous. The cost
to the United States will be borne by
many generations. We may have to
fight another war on account of
Yalta.”
* * * *
Spain Feels the Pinch. —Despite its
trade arrangements with most Western
European countries, which make, a
joke of the diplomatic ostracism of
the country, Spain is reported to be in
economic trouble. “Some econom-
ists,” says Scripps-Howard foreign
editor William Philip Simms, ‘‘give
Spain six months before things begin
to happen.” Some Western observers,
he adds, look on that as fine, because
it might mean the end of Franco.
“Others, who know the situation at
first hand, it would spell
chaos,” an economic collapse prob-
ably bringing on civil war, with results
that would make the positions of
France, Italy and the whole Mediter-
ranean area even more shaky. “Many
Western observers are insisting, there-
fore, that the world situation calls for
a realistic rather than an ideological
approach.”
* * * *
Socialised Shipping. British
Chamber of Shipping president Sir
George Christopher, on “untried
ideas based upon mere academic doc-
trine” as related to shipping: “One
might be able to experiment with the
governing policy of internal indus-
tries, which, for a. time, might be
able to absorb the results of experi-
mentation. One could not be careless
or experimental with shipping, which
has to face international competition.”
* * * *
Soviet Air Force. —In a long review
of the comparative Soviet and Western
fighting strengths, N, Y. “Times”
military writer Hanson W. Baldwin
concludes that Russia’s air superiority
is not so pronounced as its ground
superiority. The Soviet States have
many planes, including large numbers
of jet-fighters, but information gleaned
from deserters from the Russian air-
force indicate that few squadrons are
up to strength and that relatively few
planes of some tactical units are
operational. Baldwin points out,
however, that, on the other hand, the
French air-force is virtually non-
existent as a combat force, and
Britain’s R.A.F. “has only a limited
offensive capacity outside the British
Isles, although considerable strength
as a defensive force for those
islands.”
* * * *
Nationalised Plane Plants. —On the
French Cabinet decision to either
close or return to private manage-
ment seven Government-owned avia-
tion factories “in order to cut losses
under France’s nationalisation pro-
gramme,” Chicago “Tribune” dryly
comments; “Seventeen plane plants
would be left in Government hands;
thus the Government retreat from
Socialism is not as complete as it
might be, nor will it effect any very
great saving. On the record of the
nationalised plane industry, 17 plants
will be enough to keep the industry
as a whole operating at a sizeable
deficit.”
* * * *
Potential Aggressors. —“We don’t
believe,” comments “Christian Science
Monitor,” “the men in the Politburo
are so befogged and naive” as to
believe “that America is preparing to
attack Russia.” But “if they really
fear that Iran or Finland are threat-
ening the Soviet and that the Marshall
Plan is warlike, then the war dangers
from dictatorship are underscored
once more. No democracy would be
so ill-informed. No democracy could
be so ‘triggered’ for attack in the
name of defence. In judging poten-
tial aggressors this vital difference
should be noted.”
* * * ♦
A Super-plane. —A week or two
back Pan-American Airways gave
Britain a look at a giant “strato-
cruiser” which is going on the Atlantic
run, and, according to a London
correspondent of “Wall-street Jour-
nal,” it drew “envious sighs” from
those who inspected it on the ground
or cruised comfortably at 20,000 ft.
on guest-flights. “This big double-
decker plane,” he added, “symbolised
the vast gap in development between
commercial aviation in the U.S. and
Britain’s nationalised airlines.” Seven
of the giants will be on the New
York to London run, and “Thus far
Britain has failed to develop an air-
craft to meet this stiff competition.”
« * * *
Merchant-Navy Losses. —The mer-
chant navy, Minister of Transport
Barnes told the House of Commons,
suffered a higher casualty ratio in
the war than any other branch of
Britain’s national services. Out of
a total strength of 180,000 officers
and men, 32,000 lost their lives.
“Yet, immediately after the war, in
spite of demobilisation, it has been
a remarkable, stimulating and cheer-
ing fact how rapidly the strength of
the merchant navy has been more
than restored.”
* * * *
Canadian Com. —Canada is at least
one place where the Corns are, with
reason, jittery. When Comrade Carr
was lately sentenced there it was
the nineteenth case to grow out of the
1946 disclosures that the Canucks had
a Soviet spy-ring operating very suc-
cessfully in their midst. Carr was
eventually run to earth in New York.
The charge was conspiring to provide
a forged passport for a Soviet agent.
Sentence, six years, out of a maxi-
mum seven,
* * * *
Drift from the Land. —Australia
isn’t the only country suffering from
city magnetism. “U.S. News and
World Report” states that, though
U.S. rural population as a whole
actually rose between 1940 and the
present year from 57,246,000 to an
estimated 59,536,000, “the increase
apparently was concentrated in new
suburbs near the cities and in
villages.” Farm population went
down 9.3 per cent, in the same period.
And in the general population in-
crease cities made the only really big
gains, reaching an estimated popula-
tion of 87,150,000 —about 17 per cent,
more people than in 1940.
* * ♦ ♦
“Pyramid Clubs:” —In the nature
of the chain-letter, a “pyramid-club”
craze has run hectically through the
U.S., leading a “Life” letter-writer to
weigh in with this alluring item:
“In regard to the ‘pyramid-club’ fad,
a group of people I know have gone
this thing one better. Under the
set-up we have here, when you receive
a letter from a club-member you are
instructed to bundle up your wife
and send her to the man whose name
appears on the top of the list. Next,
you add your name to the bottom of
the list. When your name reaches
the top of the list you will receive
1632 beautiful women.”


£xii>e
FIRST IN 1888
No other Battery can match . . .
JU
>s*
FIRST TODAY!
Exide’s 61 Years* Experience
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.. 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
'■ 111
PERSONAL ITEMS
After once having had, in his 37 years
on the job, a visitor try to crown him
with an office-desk, fortunately bolted to
the floor, and then to strangle him, Peter
Daniels, of Brisbane, has called it a. day.
He was Queensland’s chief taxation
assessor.
The Admiralty was swift in its recogni-
tion of sloop Amethyst’s oak-hearted
company. Her C. 0., Lt.-Cdr. Bernard
Skinner, killed soon after the treacherous
action commenced, received an m.i.d., and
his first lieutenant, Geoffrey Weston,
who took over and fought the ship,
against both hidden guns and mudbanks,
gets a D.S.C. Young Jack French, one
of the ship’s telegraphists who shifted
position to the after - auxiliary W.T.
station, and maintained communication
for days in a compartment the size of a
large dog-kennel, was awarded the
D.S.M., the news of which addition he
picked up on his own wireless, which at
time of writing he was still manning.
Major-General L. R. LaFleche, to be
Canada’s new High Commissioner in
Australia, looks the fighting man he is;
he wears a bulldog head and a jaw like
a turret. One of Canada’s almost legen-
dary World War I soldiers, he served
with that Dominion’s famous 22nd Batta-
lion, and in it caught a severe wound
at Mount Sorrell in 1916, and added
to his D.S.O. a “mention” and the
French Legion of Honor. A diplomat as
well, he entered the House of Commons
in 1942, and before that was special
Canadian Military Attache to France,
with General Weygand’s armies, the first
such appointment Canada made in the
last scrap. The ceasefire found him
Canadian Ambassador to Greece, where
he is now. Kenneth Greene, whom the
general relieves, sails for home in a
month or so.
Air Vice-Marshal William Bostock, C. 8.,
0.8. E., the Victorian Liberal-Country
party pick to contest the Indi seat in the
House of Reps., was in operational com-
mand of the R.A.A.F. in World War 11.
A signaller at Gallipoli, he transferred
to the R.F.C. in 1916, flew with Mc-
Cudden, Ball and other aces and collected
a Belgian Croix de Guerre. He helped
at the birth of the R.A.A.F. in 1921,
attended a staff course at Andover (Eng.),
and returned to command Richmond
(N.S.W.) base. In England again just be-
fore Hitler marched, he put in 18 months
with the R:A.F.’s No. 1 Bomber Group
before becoming air adviser abroad to
R. G. Casey. Back home as deputy Chief
of Air Staff to Sir Charles Burnett, when
MacArthur took oyer Bostock became
C.O. of all Air Forces in the S.-W. Pacific
Area, and later Air Officer Cojnmand-
ing the R.A.A.F. Command. He carried
this job through with marked efficiency,
and saw its culmination in U.S. battler
Missouri when the Japs signed the sur-
render in Tokio Bay. He is 57.
Here to lecture under the auspices
of the World Council of Churches, which
body he lately represented in Geneva,
the Very Rev. James Hutchison Cock-
burn. He was a chaplain in France,
Egypt and East Africa in World War I,
lectured in Canada and the U.S. in the
next, and since 1944 has been Chaplain
to the King in Scotland.*
“Trinco”: With President Truman about to
appoint a civilian High Commissioner for Ger-
many, General Lucius Clay, the U.S.' Military
Governor there, this week finished his job ofi
leading the Germans in his zone to a notable
measure of political and economic responsibility.
Although Clay was in an actual fighting theatre
for only a few months in World War 11, he
proved conclusively that things could be done
by tireless application of die seat of the pants
to the seat of a desk-chair. As Director of
Material for the U.S. Army he directed the
mountainous building of supplies for D-Day;
when handling the supplies was lagging at
Cherbourg, he took charge and in a matter of
hours doubled the amount freighted through.
In 1944 the Germans counter-attacked. Clay
was borrowed by James Byrnes to fly home and
boost home-front production; there he applied
his severe “military-first” policy, with historic
results. Deputed by Eisenhower a month before
the collapse to run U.S.-occupied Germany,
Clay has been just as tough and efficient on
Germany’s home-front. But his outlook had
always been that an occupation army was the
antithesis of the democracy he was trying to
teach, and he repeatedly asked for a civilian
commissioner. Apparently President Truman
now feels he can agree with him.
No fitter person than Adrian Curlewis,
J., could fit the chairmanship of the
National Fitness Council, his latest
appointment. President of that exception-
ally fit body of Australian youth the
Surf Lifesaving Association, he has been
vice-chairman of N.SJW.’s State Council
of Fitness, association with which bodies
no doubt helped to fit him for the years
when he and those other Eighth Divi-
sioners caught in Malaya were in the
hands of the Japs. Son of a Judge and
of Ethel Turner, the authoress, he keeps
fit with surfing and tennis and relaxes at
golf.
Commodore W. G. Higgs owns to a
lifting pride in his present command, the
Port liner Port Brisbane, now in Sydney.
He has reason to: flagship of the line,
with her swept-back bridge structure and
stepped-down afterdecks, raked funnel
and first-class passenger and complement
appointments, she lifts cargo-carriers to
something like the Queen Mary class.
Forty-seven years afloat, the Commodore
first raised Australia in a full-rigged ship
in the Christmas of 1902. In Hitler’s
war he helped catch the Graf Spee (off
Capetown in 1939 his W.T. operator
picked up Doric Star’s distress signals
before the Spee sank her, and his own
repeated reports of the action put the
British cruiser-pack on to the German),
In 1941 he was in a savagely-mauled
Malta convoy, and two years later was
commanding merchantman Victor when
a torpedo opened her to the North
Atlantic. Now a still-bouncy 63, he goes
ashore after this trip, to write his auto-
bjpgraphy; what with the Queen visiting
his ship before she sailed, and the envious
reception blue-water men have given her
here, his last voyage will be something to
remember.
Taffy Owen, caught stationary long
enough for Heth to survey him, has
knocked around a bit in his time. A
geologist employed by oil companies, he
toured France with a British tunnelling
unit in the first scrap, made a reputation
for delousing booby-traps, collected an
M.C., and with the cease-fire headed into
the Andean foothills of Colombia, inland
from Cartagena, the old Spanish town of
Sir Henry Morgan and Captain Blood
memory. There Owen found likely oil
country and cigars at 16 dollars a
thousand. Eight years of that, then the
black-gold trail led him into Venezuela,
before nosing round the comparative
civilisation of Turkey and Saudi Arabia
for five years. When the second war
broke he was scrambling through coastal
Papua, until someone remembered his
facility with booby-traps and asked him
TAFFY OWEN, oil-geologist.
to instruct the later vintage in their
emasculating. He arrived in time for the
submarine bombardment of Sydney, and
is the man who deloused seven of the
made-in-Japafi duds dug from Waverley
and Rose Bay gardens. An associate
of the Royal School of Mines and of
the Royal College of Science, nuggety
and of energetic intelligence, Owen is
now anchored to the Standards Associa-
tion of Australia.
Lobbed in Perth from Leyden Uni-
versity, Holland, Dr. A. L. Hagedoorn,
known wherever stock breed as the gene-
ticist who makes them breed better.
Here on a lecture-tour (in England, he
notes, the trend among stockbreeders is
strongly for productive, hardy, pre-potent
beasts as against the showy, line-perfect
animal), he will look over several of our
important shows, including the Sydney
sheep show. In appearance a twin of
Bernard Shaw, beard and all.
For the benefit of the new generation,
this is Major-General Sir William Glas-
gow ; to Old Diggers of the First Light
Horse at Gallip. and of the 13th In-
fantry Brigade in France, sufficient identi-
fication are the overhung eyebrows (now
somewhat trimmed by time and wife),
which seemed to shoot out and nail the
listener, the eagle nose, and the chiselled
WILLIAM GLASGOW, Old Lighthorse-
man.
mouth that spoke as if it tasted every
word. Promoted in the field from
major to lieut.-colonel after a savage
attack on Hill 60 in 1915, when he came
back under fire carrying a wounded
lighthorseman, Glasgow the same year
was picked by Birdwood to form and
train the 13th Brigade of the 4th Aust.
Division in Egypt, and, when ready, he
took it to France. There he fought his
men through some of the bloodiest battles
of the war and, in close cohorts with
Brig.-General “Pompey” Elliott, finally
turned the Germans at Vilkrs-Bretonneux
on April 25, 1917. After the Kaiser
downed arms Glasgow tried home politics.
He was a Queensland Senator in 1920,
Minister for Home and Territories in
1926 and Minister for Defence from
1927-29, during which latter term he
went to Europe for ideas on mechanising
our Army. After a spell as High Com-
missioner in Canada he retired to his
cattle station at Dingo, in central Queens-
land. Straight as a rail, the Old Digger
has a brave list of decorations, and, at
72, is still very much on deck, and human
enough to play golf and bridge and to fish.
Old-timers who remember the days be-
fore drawing-room entertainment had
succumbed to films will be interested to
know that W, N. Whidburn, one of the
finest elocutionists and eisteddfod-adjudi-
cators of his day, is still alive in Geelong
at 83. In great demand for the penetra-
tion of his elocution-judging, the grand
old man was called to every capital city
except Brisbane to hear hopefuls declaim
their set-piece. He was a Shakspearian
actor of some merit, and holds the Alfred
Deakin gold medal for oratorical display.
“Taswegian”; That reference to David
Fleay’s backyard zoo (B. 27/4/’49) re-
minds me of Frank Buckland, who in-
troduced trout and salmon to Australia,
Tasmania and Maoriland. Son of the
Dean of Westminster, he, too, hoarded
and dissected, at Winchester College,
anything from snakes to hedgehogs,
and reached the stage where school-
mates’ skulls came under prospective
scrutiny. His father aided and abetted,
and once they tried chloroform on a pet
eagle. The bird was still under when
Jack© the monk was brought in for his
turn. Seeing the state of his old enemy
Jacko screamed with delight, grabbed its
tail and proceeded to dust the room.
Once curiosity proved nearly fatal.
Young Buckland watched a cobra kill a
zoo rat; he skinned the rat and scraped
the punctured skin with a fingernail to
see if the poison had taken effect. A few
minutes later he felt a violent pain
in his chest, t Two glasses of burn-
ing spirits of ammonia, chased by four of
brandy, saved him to become Inspector
of Fisheries for England and Wales.
Watching the Chinese position with
special interest, T. R. Fletcher, assistant
Canadian. Trade Commissioner in Mel-
bourne since 1946; he sails at the end
of the month to take up a similar post
in Hong Kong. Bachelor of Com-
merce from Toronto University, and
Army captain, he had his share of the
European bedlam from 1942 till the end.
Major-General L. M. Inglis, who
fought the N. African and Italian cam-
paigns with the Maoriland Division, and
relieved Lt.-Col. Freyberg when he was
wounded in 1944, has been made Chief
Judge of the Control Commission
Supreme Court in Germany’s British zone.
He knows a thing or two about the post;
after the war he returned to Germany to
preside over the military legal courts
there, and within a year became deputy-
director of all Government military tri-
bunals.
Sir Alexander Grantham is both Gover-
nor and C.-in-C. of Hong Kong, and
his confidence in preparing for the
Communist threat there derives from
the many parts he has played in his
50 years. A Sandhurst man, he served
with the Eighteenth Hussars in World
War I and reached a rank high enough
in the soldiering game to gain him entry
into the Imperial Defence College in
1934. The same year he was called to
the Bar, Inner Temple. His colonial ser-
vice began in his present command, after
which he held the colonial secretaryship
of Bermuda, Jamaica and Nigeria, the
latter for three y«ars in World War 11.
He was Governor of Fiji and High Com-
missioner for the Western Pacific during
1945-47, after which he took over in the
present hot-spot.
Up on the Dargo High Plains, Vic-
toria’s rough and tough Alpine country,
76-year-old Alex Guy, veteran cattleman,
died. His two sons were out in the wild
country mustering. Broadcasts failed to
locate them, so Sandy Traill left Crooked
River, rode all night from crest to crest
in search of a distant campfire, and
located the boys shortly after dawn.
Then, after an all-day ride, the three got
to Dargo in time for the funeral. Guy
was born amongst the snow at Crooked
River, lived amongst it all his days, and
the number of lost tourists and skiers
he rescued from it would fill a chalet. One
of these days some adventure-writer will
penetrate Victoria’s north-dast, listen to
the yams up there and come back with a
book to stir the country.
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, at 82, C. X A. Nethercote,
known to horticulturists throughout the Com-
monwealth for his daffodil culture. He was
made a member of the Royal Horticultural
Society in 1896.
At 81, in Melbourne, John Wilkins, former,
fire-chief. His biggest fight was the blaze, in
1897, which all but wiped out the block between
Swanston-street, Flinders-street, Elizabeth-street
and Flinders-lane, Jhe Bulletin’s Melbourne
office of the time being one of the victims.
Wilkins’s 50-years’ service was a brigade record.
After slipping over a steep cliff on the
Molonglo River, near Canberra,- Harold Mason,
K.C. An Old Fortian, he was called to the
N.S.W. Bar in 1913, took silk in 1934, and
practised mainly in equity and bankruptcy. In
1936 he flew to a Privy Council hearing, the
first Australian barrister to do so.
In Melbourne, at 37, hit by a- car when
leaving a tram, Bob Green, known for 13 years
to Carlton football-followers as one of the best
half-forwards in the League.
In Adelaide, at 86, Otto von Rieben, one of
the early German settlers. Born at Morgan,
on the Murray, in 1863, he worked that river
on the old paddle-wheelers before shifting
to Broken Hill to manage the “Barrier Miner.”
Five years ago he gave his two-storied, 14-
roomed home at Attunga for a hospital to the
Burnside Council.
In Brisbane, Henry Bolton, known to inmates
as the “grand old man” of Brisbane Hospital.
He joined its staff in 1890, rose to board-
secretary, became manager in 1926, and held
that post until he retired in 1941.
In Christchurch (M.L.), at 65, Percy Climie,
organiser and secretary of the Progress League,
which had a large hand in building the Otira
Gorge tunnel, now connecting east and west
parts of the' city. He also organised Canterbury
Aero Club, which trained many N.Z. pilots for
World War II; he himself went to trounce
Kruger with the Bth M.L. contingent.
At Bothwell (Tas.), at 72, B. H. Edgell, one-
time president of the Royal Agricultural and
Pastoral Society, and vice-president, pince 1920,
of the Farmers, Stockowners and Orchardists’
Association.


women's Letters
From Sydney
The story of the growth of the Spastic
Centre at Mosman kept almost 1000
listeners interested at Sydney Trocadero
last Wednesday afternoon. It was the
opening of a two-months drive for funds,
for the Centre’s money-box is empty. As
Mrs. Neil McLeod, co-founder with her
husband of the movement, said in her
speech: “When the Centre opened it had
a bank balance of £32 ; today we have no
cash balance at all.” But in credit these
workers for the unfortunate spastic
children of this State are rich indeed—
in five years they have placed their work
on a footing which caused Dr, Earl R.
Carlson, of the School of Corrective Edu-
cation, East Hampton, New York, who
recently visited Sydney, to write; “I have
visited 27 different countries, but never
before have I seen anything to equal your
Centre.... I never imagined that anything
like it could be built. It has shown me
what can be done when thought is
directed wholeheartedly in any specific
effort.”
Sydney’s Lord Mayor O’Dea opened
the drive for £100,000; the sum
necessary to build a hostel to accommo-
date out-of-town mothers of spastic
children who are attending the Centre;
to maintain and expand the fleet of buses
which carries the small pupils to and
from the school; to develop the splint
section which will eventually be at the
service of all spastic cases in Australia.
A badge-selling drive will be the chief
money-raiser, and it will culminate in
“Buy a Badge Day” on July 8. Lord
Mayor O’Dea wears the first badge sold
in the campaign.
When opening the Society of Artists’
show last Monday Professor Denis
Winston spoke with great enthusiasm of
two former Bulletin artists: Phil May
and David Low. The professor’s speech
had bouquet, but it was like a bottle of
good wine haphazardly poured. Still, the
speaker sounded quite at home with the
masters of the art of drawing, and refer-
ences to the great and their work came
readily from his tongue.
Drawings and sculpture are the ex-
hibits, and interesting are four works by
former president of the society Sydney
Ure Smith, done when he was 19. Sydney
was there, looking very much better in
health and being greeted by all. Paul
Jones, whose delicate work is a feature
of the show, was there, and Paul Beadle,
in full beard, and Desiderius Orban.
Also present were S.O.A.’s president
Douglas Dundas and his wife.
Alannah Coleman’s tiny hat provided
“take-off” for a flighty ribbon bow. The
Claude Plowman lady, in very correct
tailorings, was a visitor. Sculptor
Daphne Mayo and Mrs. Towndrow,
wife of the Tech.’s Lecturer-in-Charge,
Department of Architecture and Building,
were among the many who gazed on the
“Daughter of the Sun” in Swedish granite
by Sydney bookseller R. C. Gumpertz.
Melbourne’s Jennie Brenan, president
of the Overseas Committee of the Royal
Academy of Dancing, London, was a dis-
tinguished figure in soft-grey tailorings
and handsome platina foxes when she
lunched at Romano’s last week with
Frances Scully, of Sydney, and Linley
Wilson, of Perth. The three fornvthe
Academy’s Overseas Advisory Committee
and had been conferring for a
week. In between talks Miss Scully
and Miss Danetree, a member of
the R.A.D. Council, have been
hostesses at several luncheons and
dinner parties. Last Friday the four were
seen gazing raptly at the ballet film “Red
Shoes,” in which Helen ffrance, a former
pupil of Miss Scully, has a part.
The party which got itself most into
the papers last week was the late-after-
noon one at the Royal Exchange. The
most breathtaking fact was that the foot
of woman has never trod the long
Members’ Room with its middle colon-
nade of pillars for over 50 years. In
the ’nineties and before then the Exchange
was one of the night spots, harboring
balls, kettledrums and high-life generally.
The ’Change fathers, who decided to keep
the sex out, seem to have made a more
lasting job of it than Adam in his Eden.
But the ladies stormed the bastille last
week, though the males predominated.
The new decorations of the room were
admired; the party was in some respects
a dress-parade for the now pastel-toned
Members’ Room, which has responded
100 p.c. to its beauty-treatment. Official
guests were the Governor, Lt.-General
Northcott, Premier James McGirr and
Mrs. McGirr and Sydney’s Lord Mayor
O’Dea and Mrs. O’Dea. Mrs, John
Faviell, photographed in this Letter,
helped her husband, who is chairman of
Directors of the Royal Exchange, to re-
ceive the guests. Also busy receiving the
370 were Deputy-director D. M. Dixon
and Mrs. Dixon.
Newspapermen and -women -its first
guests will drink good luck to
Almora House, at Mosman, to-
morrow. This has been taken over
by Walter Magnus, of Savarin fame,
and will henceforth be the scene
of wedding-receptions, dances and card
parties. Once known as Windemere, it has
a glorious view right across Balmoral to
the Heads. One of the rooms is panelled
in cypress pine, and into this a cocktail-
bar has been built. From this room you
step across a wide verandah to a stone-
paved courtyard complete, as when Mr.
Magnus discovered it, with a built-in
stone barbecue fireplace.
Singer Marjorie Lawrence, brave and
gay, breezed through the city last week
on her way to Winchelsea, thence to Mel-
bourne and an all-round-Australia-and-
Maoriland concert tour. Marjorie has
just as much sparkle as when she first
came to Sydney before the war and be-
fore she was stricken with the infantile
paralysis which she refused to allow to
spoil her career. Marjorie’s concert ward-
robe holds some thrills. One of her
frocks is white satin crusted with rhine-
stones on the bodice and sewn on the
full skirt as thick with sequins as the
Milky Way is with stars. And this
Letter, a hat-addict, is looking forward
to Marjorie’s hats.
Every member of the Girls’ Secondary
Schools Club is keenly following the
travels of their popular secretary, Mildred
Rees. After a hectic fortnight in Lon-
don Mildred went up to Lancashire and
did the Lakes before going on to Edin-
burgh, where she was the guest of Killara
girl Nell Sharp (now Mrs. Park). She
has visited South Wales, and spent Easter
at Torquay and Swanage. She is now
doing a motor-trip through France and
Switzerland.
This is a last-week photograph of
Mrs. John Faviell, who, with Mrs. F.
Graham, shares the duties of secretary
of the 1949 Wool Ball. This will be held
in Romano’s on May 28, when all the
country is in town for the sheep show.
Mrs. Charles Lloyd Jones has sent the
prize for the most charming woollen
frock worn at the ball. This is a dress-
length of finest pink woollen chosen by
Norman Hartnell. Novelty of the night
will be the sale of balls of white wool
carrying lucky numbers. Prizes include
bottles of Scotch, and even a roll of
Japanese silk —a pre-war purchase. The
Peter Pan Kindergarten benefits. The
photograph of Mrs. Faviell is by Norton
Trevaire.
Well-known singing-teacher and artist Nevill
Smith sends a “cooee,” not exactly from the
wilds of Arizona, but from Phoenix in that
State. To begin with, Nevill is loud in praise
of the Mayo Clinic at Rochester (Minn.), where
he had a major and a minor operation per-
formed on him by Dr. Charles Mayo, son of
the great William Mayo, the founder of the
clinic, which now has 800 doctors and 9000
patients. The Sydneyite has become a member
of the State Music Teachers’ Association, Arizona,
of which there are 300 active members. He has
given a lecture on singing at the Convention
held at Tucson, the University city of the State.
He has renewed an old-time Berlin friendship
with Serge Koussevitzsky, now conductor of the
Boston Symphony Orchestra, who has a
beautiful winter home in the Arizona desert. The
great musician and his wife came specially to
Nevill’s studio to hear him give a lesson to two
pupils. Nevill, who shows here with the Royal
Art Society, has just been made an active
member of,the American Artists’ Professional
League of New York. At the first Arizona
exhibition a painting of Wollongong, showing
Mt. Keira in the distance, was greatly admired.
He has also had a one-man show in the Univer-
sity of Arizona, the first Australian to achieve
this. , T
Nevill has also spent a day with Lotte
Lehmann at her ranch home in Santa Barbara.
Lotte, too, is painting, and has illustrated three
vocal cycles, two Schubert and one Schumann.
From Melbourne
To the Savoy for the gala premiere of
the Columbia film “La Traviata” came
a host of music-lovers not only to enjoy
the sparkling Verdi music, but also to
fill the coffers of the Melba Memorial
Fund. The Premier was there with Mrs.
Hollway, whose beige satin gown, which
had an ’ overskirt of brown tulle, was
worn with a blue-fox jacket. They sat
with Mrs. George Armstrong (daughter-
in-law of the late Dame Melba) chin-
chilla-fur fashioned the wide cuffs of her
scarlet wool coat —and Lady Gullett,
whose black gown was worn under a
dyed-ermine coat. Ticket-secretaries for
the function were the Hon. Mrs, William
Vestey, in midnight-blue crepes and hip-
length brown beaver coat, and Mrs, Geoff
Grimwade, whose slim-fitting white crepe
gown had a bodice with rows of matching
fringe. A clover-pink wool jacket
trimmed with matching sequins was worn
by Techea Matear with her black crepe
romaine gown. A cerise silk sari matched
Reta Findlay’s gown. Mrs. Fred Dennet’s
Victor Steibel gown was of parma-violet
chiffon. Gold-sequinned, rust-toned
crepe was worn by Mrs. Bill Baillieu.
Madame Wang covered her soft-pink
National gown with a blue-fox coat.
English actress Pamela Bygrave, who
takes the role of the tomboy daughter,
Myra Hapgood, in “Fly Away Peter,”
which opened at the Comedy last Satur-
day, was born on a Sussex farm which
has been in her family for generations.
At 17 she went to the Webber-Douglas
school of acting, where film-star Stewart
Grainger was trained. With the Windsor
Repertory Company she played the boy
in “Oliver Twist” and Jessica in “The
Merchant of Venice” ; Russell Thorndyke
was Shylock in the same production. On
tour in England Pamela has played in
two Noel Coward plays: “Private Lives”
and “Blithe Spirit,” but her favorite roles
are of the type she portrays in “Fly
Away Peter.”
One of the most striking gowns seen
at the first night of the English comedy
“Fly Away, Peter,” at the Comedy
Theatre, was that of Mrs. A. G. Warner.
Of soft petunia crepe, it was trimmed
with gold sequins and was worn with
matching gloves. Black satin and lace
were combined in Mrs. M. Sallmann’s
gown; her tiny theatre hat of black
velvet had a trimming of pearls. Over
her black gown Mrs. B. Koski wore a
mink coat. Mrs. Lennox Spiers’s dove-
grey chiffons had dyed-mink to top it.
An ensemble of chocolate-brown crepe
which had gold sequin trimming and a
sable cape stole were worn by June
Clyde, the star of “Born Yesterday.”
Gold sequins studded Peggy Purbrick’s
brown tulle gown. Peggy Yelland wore
a draped gown of white crepe.
Japonica-pink crepe festooned with
gold embroideries fashioned the gown
worn by Mrs. M. Tompkins; her
daughter Merle covered her white frock
with a fulUength wool coat of aqua-blue.
Powder-blue crepe and lace formed the
gown Hilda Corbett wore with matching
gloves and platina-fox cape. Mrs. J.
Vincent Smith’s royal-blue floral gown
was covered by a silver-fox cape ; her
daughter Iris set off her white Brussels
lace ballerina frock with emerald-green
gloves. A bolero of gold lame was worn
by Mrs. Heathcote Wright with her black
gown. A full-length taupe velvet coat
was worn over Ivy Parker’s white lace
creation. Black bead trimming added a
distinctive note to Mrs. Graham Nathan’s
white crepe Grecian gown. Brackets of
gay flowers patterned the royal-blue
gown worn by Mrs. Harold Nathan with
her silver-fox coat. Mrs. Frank Tait
added a diamente-studded black tulle
sari to her dyed-ermine coat and black
gown. Cecil Tail’s pale-cyclamen crepes
had a mandarin jacket in the same ton-
ings for company, Moira Rankine gained
contrast for her black taffeta gown with
cyclamen gloves.
Mrs. Herbert Brookes hostessed the
afternoon-tea party at the International
Club, her guests being the wives of mem-
bers of the Consular Corps. Vice-presi-
dents of the club included Mesdames
Arthur Hordern, D. D. Jamieson and the
Harrison Moore lady. Mrs. S. J. Fletcher
represented the U.S.A.; Madame Wang,
China ; Mrs. J. A. Schreuder, Norway;
Mrs, F. H. Wright, the Netherlands ; and
Mrs. A. A. Nicolades, Greece. Secre-
tary of the International Club, Mrs. G.
H. Hargreave, outlined the details of the
All Nations Exhibition which will be
held in the lower Town Hall on August
15 and 16, and at which practically every
country will be represented. On sale at
the exhibition will be dolls dressed in
national costumes, national food and
recipes. International Club plans also
include an Austrian Beer Garden in
the lower Town Hall. Date for this is
June 24.
Mesdames Eric Cottrell and Royden
Honeyman organised the dinner-dance at
Giro’s to help along the Queen Victoria
Hospital Building Fund. The acting-
chairman of the City Council, knight
Harold Gengoult Smith, was there with
his wife. The Brookes lady, president of
the Q.V. Hospital, was in floral-printed
white satins. Mrs. Cottrell’s fully-pleated
turquoise chiffon gown had pleated frills
forming the sleeves. Mrs. Honeyman’s
bouffant gown of ice-blue satin had
pastel-toned handmade flowers trailing
down one side of the skirt. Mrs. Harold
Holt added a matching stole to her
bouffant pale-beige lace gown. Mrs. Fred
Dennett’s lace gown had the off-the-
shoulder line. Black faille fashioned the
attractive ensemble worn by Mrs. Wallace
Mitchell. Peggy Walsh effectively com-
bined pinky-beige chiffon and lace. Mrs.
H. F. Wright, a member of the Q.V.
committee, wore a long-fitting coat of
aqua-blue wool embroidered in silver
over a black gown. Her daughter, Mrs.
Ron Marriott, wore a black crepe gown
which had sequinned shoulder-straps.
Mrs. L. R. Buxton’s gown of gold-and-
black check taffeta had circlets of gold
sequins trimming the black checks. Mrs.
Arthur Wenzel, another committee mem-
ber, was in black crepe romaine. Her
daughter, Mrs. Geoffrey Cohen, wore
midnight-blue satins. Josie Pauli’s strap-
less gown of sage-green taffeta had the
skirt drawn at the back into a bustle.
Joan Daverin’s bronze-brown faille gown
was worn with a matching gold-and-
brown-striped faille jacket. Mrs. L.
Green’s frock was of black taffeta.
Emerald-green sequins embellished the
green crepe gown worn by Mrs. W. Mc-
Dermott. A black velvet gown with tiny
undersleeves of narrow white lace was
Mrs. Bill Hickey’s choice. Mrs. Isobel
Green, who was celebrating her birthday
with members of her family, added gar-
denias to her tailored black crepe gown.
Mrs. Spry’s off-white brocade satin gown
was made with a very wide skirt. Mrs.
Karl Haigh’s gown was of bronze-brown
taffeta.
Helen, eldest daughter of the news-
paper Keith Murdochs, was married at
the Toorak Presbyterian Church to
Geoffrey Norman, youngest son of Mrs.
Handbury, of Glen Iris, and the late Mr.
O. G. Handbury. Her gown of white
brocade satin had a motif of leaves
faintly outlined with gold thread. Un-
pressed pleats formed the skirt, while
the bodice had a low oval neckline and
long, tight sleeves. A tiny crown of
French orange-blossom, lent by Mrs.
Leslie Moran, held in place the - tulle veil,
which had belonged to her grandmother,
the late Mrs. P. J. Murdoch. The edge
of the veil was embroidered with a leaf
design, which matched the leaf motif of
the gown. She carried a small spray of
French orange-blossom. The four brides-
maids, Athol Adams, Marcia Faulkner,
and the bride’s two younger sisters, Anne
and Janet, were frocked alike in lily-of-
the-valley green nylon crinkle organza,
with the fullness in the skirt falling in
unpressed pleats. The older bridesmaids’
frocks had swathed draperies on the
bodice arranged to cover head and
shoulders, sari fashion. The two younger
girls’ dresses had swathed sashes at the
waist and tiny puff sleeves. Instead of
saris they wore wreaths of pastel hydran-
geas in their hair, and all four carried
posies of pastel-pink, cream and pale-gold
miniature zinnias. Squadron-leader John
Handbury was his brother’s best man
and his other brother, James, was
groomsman.
Reception was held at the home of the
bride’s parents, Mrs. Handbury assist-
ing to receive the guests. Pastel-tinted
chrysanthemums formed the decorations
of the marquee in the garden. Stone-
marten furs were worn by the Murdoch
lady with her redingote frock of soft
petrel-blue wool. Pewter buttons were
used to fasten her frock, and her chiffon
hat of blue had a diamond leaf-brooch
pinned in front. Mrs. Handbury’s frock
and jacket of snuff-brown sheer wool was
worn with brown accessories, and a wing
of brown cocq-feathers was set on one
side of the almond-green hat.


JO
Stee
Czr 3^
\
/
/
Yes ... as far as domestic equipment and
appliances are concerned, she’s an expert on steel. She
has only to ask one question and she knows whether or not
a refrigerator, washer, range or cooker is a genuine long-term
investment—as they should be. The one question she
asks is this—“ls it built from COMROL Steel?” She
1
-
mows (as you now know) that it’s the
basic structure of an appliance that
gives it long life and essential stamina
. . . COMROL Steel will stand up to all
that years of wear will bring,
STEEL SHEETS FOR INDUSTRY
COMMONWEALTH ROLLING MILLS PTY. LTD.
Head Office & Works: Port Kembla, N.S.W.
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LIMITED-GENERAL SALES AGENTS.
SYDNEY: 33 Macquarie Place. MELBOURNE: 70-84 Clarendon Street South
Melbourne. ADELAIDE: 13 Grenfell Street. BRISBANE: 307-311 Queen
Street. FREMANTLE: Corner of Short and Pakenham Streets. WELLINGTON,
N.Z.: John Lysaght's Bristol Works Limited.
‘THIS
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features
cf high-priced imported
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
OETAILS AND
PRICES ON
application
machines at only a trac-
tion of their cost. The
"National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce
Typing. Writing. Plans.
Mus . c etc
Built entirely tn Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents—
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
FEKTU
W. c. Penfold & Co. Pty. Ltd
. Norman Bros. Pty Ltd
. Vardon & Sons Ltd
. Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
Rupture
Sufferers —try the new Roussel Free.
Enables you to do hard work with
comfort and security. Definitely
holds, a condition absolutely necessary
for improvement.
Recommended by doctors and thou-
sands of satisfied users. Satisfaction
guaranteed, no matter where you live.
rn CP Call or send stamp for
•T FREE details, self-measure-
ment form and H days’ free trial
offer. No obligation.
The Roussel Appliance Co.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
is there
st t
fd
in your elevator?
■lOH*’
rf rrs
and
nicirr
Architects and construction engineers who
write into their specifications, “Lifts (or
Escalators) by Waygood-Otis,” are assured
of specifying the finest in vertical
transportation.
Every component we make, every lift or
escalator we install, is planned from the design
stage, through production to construction
and final erection and installation, to give the
most and to last the longest.
Whether it’s installing the new, modernising
the old—or in maintenance service—Waygood-
Otis vertical transportation best serves the
architect or the owner.
IGHT
u 25
§
7i
iuo« t!
SYDNEY
PERT
W A YGOO.D
Y**’
i *. i i >r
Incorporated
(Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
in Victoria
• MELBOURNE . ADELAIDE . BRISBANE
• HOBART . NEWCASTLE
THE SERVICE MAN
Shanghai & Hong Kong
“Ek Dum”: The Communists
are advancing into Shanghai
about as quickly as they need to
do and with little check so far.
Over the week-end on the north
they were through Liuho, about
18 miles from the outer ring of
the city proper and the key to its
safety. It would be expected that
this natural approach, the scene
of the Japanese break-through in
1937, would have been carefully
defended, but the shape of things
in the Shanghai Peninsula does
not suggest that there is much
organised defence at all.
Residents of Shanghai are now
wondering which would be worse
—to be left at the mercy of
the Communists or of the
chaos which already exists,
dominated by predatory
blackmafketeers and wan-
dering Nationalist troops
out of control.
. Meanwhile preparations
are going ahead to defend
Hong Kong—if necessary.
The military side of the
enemy is still a long way
away. What needs to be
feared most is infiltration by
Chinese versions of Australia’s
mimicking Molotovs fifth-
columnists bent on taking over
through industrial strife or the
paralysing of civil life. Not only
the British representatives but the
local Chinese, large numbers of
whom are proud to call them-
selves British (together with
others who have fled the main-
land to peace and quiet and
stability of life), will do their
best to deal with these gentry.
Preparations for actual physi-
cal defence against attack go on
slowly. It is proposed to increase
the British garrison to 12,000
men, to which, no doubt, con-
siderable local talent will be
added in case of need. Australia
is not contributing or offering to
contribute.
The area is highly defendable
against an enemy whose equip-
ment and logistics are not
modern and who has little or no
aircraft and no naval support.
The colony consists of 390
square miles, partly on the
mainland and partly on the
high mountain, which the
“ Cripes , Doc , is that the alarm-clock or me own ticker ?”
British have turned, in just a cen-
tury of occupation, from a lair
of pirates and robbers into a
highly civilised community, heart
of a population of over 1,000,000
people. The mainland section is
divided from the island by an
anchorage which lies on the
northern flank of the Pearl River
entrance. Its narrowest part is
the Lyee Moon Passage on the
north-east, which is about a
quarter of a mile in width.
The approach from China
proper to Kowloon by land is
over a narrow neck of hilly
country which is easy to fortify.
The aerodrome of the territory
is along the coast to the north at
Kai Tak under the shadows of
jagged coastal ranges. The water-
supply, which was vulnerable to
attack in World War II because
it was on the mainland near the
perimeter, has now been re-
organised and reservoirs put
down on the seaward side of
Hong Kong Island in the Re-
pulse Bay-Aberdeen regions.
An enemy with guns could
soon make the anchorage unten-
able for ships, but nevertheless
there is no defensive position
in the world for which a power-
ful naval squadron could do
more, especially if it possessed
aircraft-carriers. Even iA the
face of defensive advantages,
however, the overrunning of the
island would not be impossible
against a comparatively small
garrison, if the enemy has
numbers. It would be the story
of the Eastern Front and Russia
all over again.
The Communists of the north
have not yet had to fight any
modern or modernly - armed
troops in quantity, and numbers
are likely to be their only asset
—numbers of men and, if the
Pearl River has not changed,
numbers of small craft also.
There is always a tendency in
assessing modern military posi-
tions to overlook the value of
manpower, which critics insist on
regarding as a somewhat unim-
portant adjunct to mechanised
might. It is the more important
element.
However, it still remains to be
seen whether there is real cause
for alarm.
No Invasion Intended.
“Ek Dum”: With the gradual
exposure of Japanese documents
the story of Japan’s strategy
and intentions against Australia
has come to light.
Three weeks after the attack
on Pearl Harbor the Japanese,
using four-engined flying-boats*
had carefully examined the New
Guinea mandated area and had
driven out our few Hudsons,
and assured themselves that in
the air an invasion force would
encounter nothing stronger than
a few Wirraways, which were,
in due course, shot down, vir-
tually defenceless, by carrier air-
craft on January 20,
Rabaul’s coastal defence, a
single battery, was dug out at the
same time by dive-bombers.
A Japanese detachment —the
Nankai Shitai, or South Seas
Force, which had captured
Guam —was meanwhile sent on
its way to take Rabaul. The
details now available deflate the
idea that it was a huge army.
It consisted, in fact, of a brigade
—the 144th Infantry, with an-
cillaries, about 5000 men, com-
manded by Major-General Horii.
The orders for Rabaul’s cap-
ture were issued on January 4»
I
to be undertaken as soon as
possible after January 15.
The Australian defences of a
grand defence position were en-
tirely sketchy—the little fort at
Praed Point, a bomber-strip at
Vunakanau (but no bombers),
a fighter-strip at Lakunai (but
no fighters), the 2/22nd battalion
of the Eighth Division, A.1.F.,
about 100 New Guinea Volun-
teer Rifles, some R.A.N., two
worn-out and scrapped naval
six-inchers, two three-inchers of
about the same efficiency as the
Italian guns the A.I.F. used to
pick up in Libya and aim by
rule of thumb. The Wirraways,
until they were descended on by
the carrier aircraft and wiped
out, had numbered seven.
A company (Independent) of
the A.I.F. was scattered in bits
and pieces from Vila in the
Hebrides to Lorengau in the
Admiralties, and there were also
the scattered coast-watchers.
General Horii had as support
a part of the Fourth Japanese
Fleet (under Vice-Admiral Nori-
yoshi Inouye), which was to
take Kavieng on the same day
as Rabaul. The Rabaul convoy
left Guam under escort on
January 16, D-Day having been
set as January 23. From Truk
it acquired added strength in
the Kavieng invasion force,
which brought it up to 40 ships.
Two aircraft-carriers made di-
rectly for the Rabaiil-New Ire-
land area.
Kavieng fell without any re-
sistance. The tiny force there
was taken, when trying to get
away, by a Japanese destroyer.
The Rabaul convoy arrived
off its objective on the night of
January 22-23. A detachment
went to take over the Duke of
York Islands, while the main
force started its landing, accord-
ing to timetable, on the western
shore of Keravia Bay and
Simpsonhafen. Only 400 Aus-
tralians among the fiercely-
resisting force, which had only
light arms and mortars, escaped.
The Japanese wasted no time
in reorganising Rabaul. The
airfields were lengthened and
new ones opened, and Blanche
Bay area soon became the centre
of all Japanese action in the
South Seas, the depot for offence
and some threat to Australian
security.
A month after it had been
taken Singapore fell, but before
that the Anzac defence area
had been created on January 29,
along with the Anzac Force,
mainly naval, including Aus-
tralia’s three cruisers, under


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM REILLY late of Concord in
the State of New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that your wife JOYCE REILLY
has filed a petition for Divorce No. 1641
of 1949 on the grounds of desertion for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the sth day of August
1949 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from ADRIAN 0. R.
TWIGG, 160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
—(n.s.) J. DOUGHAN, Acting Registrar
in Divorce.
An Outstanding Publication
“COME LISTEN TO MY SONG”
By ROLAND FOSTER
With a Foreword hy the Distinguished Conductor-composer, Eugene Goossens,
Extending over a world-wide range of interest and embracing an extraordinary
variety of professional and social experiences dating back to the “Naughty
Nineties’’’ and the halcyon days of Edward YII, Mr. Roland Foster’s
reminiscences, entitled “Come Listen to My Song,” will appeal to the
general reader in quest of an entertaining book no less than to the music-
lover, the practising musician, and the aspiring vocalist, for whose benefit
the risks and uncertainties of a public career, as well as its advantages and
enjoyments, have been set forth without concealment or reservation.
There are thirty-six photographic illustrations, and as frontispiece a repro-
duction of the author’s portrait, painted by Jerrold Nathan.
Price 15/- (post 6d.)
For Immediate Supply Send Your Order
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LIMITED
Booksellers & Publishers,
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. MA6SII.
Yoar choice li CINZANO
Vermouth, whether your taste is for
tweet or dry. CINZANO Vermouth
gives just that extra exhilarating tang
to the palate.
f
THE “WILD CAT” MONTHLY.
A Review of Company Accounts and Mining Activities.
Price 2/- per Single Copy 22/6 a year post free.
This Symbolmeans
PRODUCT OF
INTERNATIONAL
HARVESTER
HIS IH symbol means product of International
Harvester . . .
Throughout the length and breadth of the Com-
monwealth you’ll see International Harvester’s
products—lnternational Trucks, International In-
dustrial Power, and International McCormick-Deer-
ing Tractors and Farm Equipment—playing a
major part in the development and great advance-
ment of our Transportation Services, our Agricul-
ture, and our Secondary Industries. International
Harvester is pleased that its products are vital
and essential in this great national progress . . ,
International Harvester’s products are sold and
serviced by over 600 trained and specially ©quipped
dealers located at convenient centres in every part
of the Commonwealth.
When you have need for products such as those
that International Harvester builds, see your near-
est International Harvester distributor or dealer.
You can count on IH products and the distributors
and dealers who sell and service them.
International Harvester Company of Australia Pty. Ltd.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
Branches in all capital cities. Factory: Geelong
Every International is “all-truck” built.
Utilities, and light, medium, and heavy •
duty models.
THE MARK
OF EXPERIENCE
AND QUALITY
I
m
4^
■
There’s an International for every haul-
ing purpose• Capacities to 10 tons •
International McCormick-Deering t€ . Far mall’ 9
Tractor with direct-connected multi-row
equipment •
!«%■ Jp! _ . „
iMK
ill
MiM
International Industrial Power the range
includes “Wheel” and “Crawler” Tractors
and complete “Power Units” for all
Industrial purposes.
1224-27
INTERNATIONAL
'JEtCORMICK-OEERING INTERNATIONAL TRACTORS AND FARM EQUIFMENI
INTERNATIONAL
HARVESTER
HARVESTER
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS • INTERNATIONAL INDUSTRIAL ROWEB
U.S. overall command of Vice-
Admiral Leary, who took over
on February 7. The first B-17s
to support this force reached
Townsville on February 17-18,
and were in action against
Rabaul in about 10 days, operat-
ing from improvised fields.
Their presence was received by
those who knew with a sigh of
relief, for, by the time they
arrived, Moresby had only five
Catalinas left. There was no-
thing further west to protect
Darwin, Broome and Wyndham.
The Japanese plan did not
contemplate invasion of North
Australia. Strokes there were
merely a feint to keep Allied
forces away from New Guinea,
but the plan was entirely effec-
tive, and led the Allies to pre-
pare for an invasion, the Aus-
tralian protective forces being
placed temporarily under Lieu-
tenant-General George Brett,
U.S.A.
Australian military authori-
ties, in spite of the frantic poli-
ticians in the background, esti-
mated the position correctly.
They believed that any landing
at Darwin would be purely de-
fensive, and that the objective
of the enemy was merely to cut
Australian-American communi-
cations to prevent development
of Australia as a base for attack
on Japan and its holdings in the
South Seas. It was estimated
that Fiji and New Caledonia
would be more important to
Japanese plans, but the Aus-
tralian Staff also rightly believed
Moresby to be in imminent
danger as a base which the
Japanese could not afford to
leave on their flank, one which
would constantly threaten them.
At this stage a difference of
opinion developed among the
Japanese as to the course which
should be pursued. The Japanese
Naval Section at Imperial H.Q.,
becoming alarmed by the swift
development of Australia as a
base and at the influx to its ports
and airfields of U.S. units, de-
manded that the Australian
mainland should at once be
attacked and rendered useless as
a base, even if the cost should
be heavy.
The Army was against this,
course on the ground that at
least ten to a dozen divisions,
with vast quantities of transport
and escort, would be needed for
the task of invasion.
It was contended that by
isolating Australia, through tak-
ing Fiji and New Caledonia,
everything would be brought to
a successful conclusion without
the expense in men and material
needed for a major invasion. As
a preliminary to the main opera-
tions against Fiji and New
Caledonia it was decided that
Moresby must be cleaned up,
and on February 4 the Fourth
Fleet was ordered to take Lae
and Salamaua as a preliminary
to the operation. The South Seas
detachment of the fleet was
chosen for this task while pre-
liminary mopping-up of the
Solomons was carried out.
Plans were completed on Feb-
ruary 16 between Army and
Navy for the Lae-Salamaua
operation, but the arrival of the
aircraft-carrier Lexington and
more air strength from the
United States somewhat dis-
organised Japanese plans cen-
tring on Rabaul. The Lae-
Salamaua expedition, which had
been arranged for the end of
the month, had to be delayed,
after a combat at sea with the
U.S. carrier and her escorts,
which presently withdrew for
fuel replenishment. The date
for the Lae-Salamaua attack was
postponed till March 8.
The Japanese had, during the
month, taken Gasmata (Feb-
ruary 8), and prepared a good
airfield there only about 200
miles from the Lae-Salamaua
area.
Before their expedition moved
on March 2 they delivered heavy
blows against Moresby, Bulolo
and their two main objectives.
The troops used against Sala-
maua consisted of the Second
Battalion, 144th Infantry, to-
gether with their ancillaries from
General Horii’s force. Lae was
to be taken by the Maizuru
Second Special Naval Landing
Force, based on Truk. Both
these forces were to return to
Rabaul when they had secured
their objectives, leaving behind
the Seventh Base Corps, about
1500 strong, to act as garrison
for the two points.
The expedition left Rabaul on
the evening of March 5, covered
by three cruisers, eight destroyers
and a number of transports and
freighters. Moresby could do
little about it, and the convoys
suffered no loss, arriving in
Huon Gulf at midnight on
March 7. . .
The Salamaua landing, made
directly afterwards, was com-
pletely unopposed, and the town
was taken over by 2 a.m. Lae
fell to the Maizuru detachment
after daylight, again without op-
position from the New Guinea
Rifles, which put the firestick
through everything inflammable
and retired to Bulolo,
Without delay the Japs began
to organise Lae as a naval base.
It was not all easy going for
them, however, since the U.S.
carrier forces had been built up
by the addition of the York-
town and escorts to the Lexing-
ton’s force, making the total
strength—some acquired from
the Anzac area —two carriers,
eight heavy cruisers and 14 de-
stroyers, which were assembled
with the intention of raiding
Rabaul.
The carriers which were in the
Papuan Gulf flew 104 aircraft
through the Owen Stanley gap
two days after the landings in
the Huon area and struck the
Japs pretty hard, sinking four
ships and killing a number of the
Lae garrison. Then the Anzac
Fortresses came in and did con-
siderable‘damage, but there was
not sufficient Allied strength to
prevent the Japanese from estab-
lishing themselves, which they
did by March 15, when the land-
ing units turned over to the base
force, which at once consoli-
dated.
The flank was made “secure”
at Finschhafen. The southern
line of advance towards New
Caledonia was opened by the
taking of the Solomons.
The next item on the plan was
the capture of Moresby, which
was to be followed by the
assaults on New Caledonia, Fiji
and Samoa to cut the Australian-
American communication line.
The enemy was too late to
succeed. Had he been a month
earlier with his plan, which he
certainly could have been had
Malaya and Bataan not held
out as long as they did, he would
almost certainly have succeeded.
But the building-up of the Coral
Sea Allied force was completed
in time to ward off the blow at
Moresby in the Coral Sea battle
early in May.
It seems clear that the violent
transports of the politicians at
the time grossly exaggerated the
immediate dangers of the situa-
tion to Australia. The Japanese
did not at that stage have in the
region of Eastern Australia a
force sufficient to attack and
hold any part of the east coast
of the Commonwealth. If any
blow had been struck it would
have been merely in the nature
of a raid against air bases or
rail communications, but even
of that there was scarcely any
likelihood.
Also, it was quite unlikely
that any stage, even the taking
of Fiji or Samoa, would have
permanently endangered the
Austral-American sea-line. The
result of the Midway battle fol-
lowing the Coral Sea affray
proved that conclusively.
The two main features of the
Australian situation which stood
out were:
(1) The utter lack of prepara-
tion against invasion—a prepara-
tion which the members of the
Government then in office
savagely deplored, but in the
way of which they and their
Communist union-leader fol-
lowers had put every obstacle
during the period which should
have been preparative. As late
as August, 1941, Dr, Evatt
severely scolded Mr. Menzies
for issuing warnings of the pos-
sibility of a Japanese attack, and
attributed his fear to a desire to
play at politics.
(2) The utter panic and de-
lirious exaggeration of the situa-
tion by the Government in its
public utterances and announce-
ments.
(3) The splendid staff work of
the Australian forces, whose ap-
preciations, far from easy to
make considering the field of
alternatives offering to the
enemy, were cool-headed and
accurate in almost every case.
Australia’s new 14,000-ton air-
craft-carrier is in home waters,
the subject of interested comment
by the daily Press, which is con-
cerned with her cooking arrange-
ments and amenities rather than
with her power. Thought on de-
fence in Australia has reached
the stage at which it seems that
it is more important that a ship
should present her crew with a
life of comfort than that she
should be a terror of the seas.
It would be more to the point if
the Press were to point out effec-
tively that even with its existing
museum-piece Navy Australia
cannot fully man her ships and
that the position will become
worse with two aircraft-carriers
and fresh destroyers added to
the strength—that is, if the de-
stroyers are added to the
strength. The rate at which little
ships are built in the Common-
wealth is a disgrace to the
workers who profess to love
their homeland. It takes longer
to build a destroyer here, despite
30 years of modernisation in
method, than it took to build
ships like Hood, Nelson and
Rodney in the 33,000-42,000-ton
classes in the 1918-1930 period.


.
d
*
aw
11
Sgffig
IP
m
ss s
W:«
«* ><¥
MB
«a
*:•«> '5
.;•:«(, -J?
VACUUM
OOAIITV PRODUCT
Keep your
Engine Clean
with
A clean engine gives perfect
lubrication, longer engine life, im-
proved performance and complete
protection at all speeds and at all
temperatures.
VACUUM OIL COY. PTY. LTD.
M-491
MOBILOIL
SUNDRY SHOWS
"MARTHA."
Flotow’s opera has had a
curious history. Flotow, a Ger-
man, took a French plot on an
English theme and set it to
characteristically French music
in Paris, having studied composi-
tion there between two revolu-
tions. The second one drove
him to Vienna, where his opera
had already been produced in
1847. Nine years later it got its
British premifere, not in London
but at the old Theatre Royal in
Melbourne under the auspices
of George Coppin, who imported
Madame Anna Bishop for the
occasion. Two years later it had
its London premiere at Covent
Garden in Italian, and in the
same year at Drury Lane in Eng-
lish. The title role has been
sung by Nilsson, Patti, Gerster
and Sembrich and the tenor by
Caruso. Anna Bishop gave the
American premiere at New
Orleans four years before she
sang it in Melbourne. Its chief
and best air isn’t German or
French or even Flotow’s —it is
Irish.
As the second entry in the
grand - opera section of the
National Theatre Movement’s
Festival of - the Arts at Mel-
bourne Princess, it served as a
demonstration of the ability of
Australian artists to make a re-
markably good fist of French
elegance in mime and music* and
augured well for the future.
Halinka de Tarczynska, as the
highborn maiden bored with the
tedium of court life, who hires
herself out to a farmer at Rich-
mond fair, caught the light mood
of the play very nicely and sang
the inveterately bright music
with distinction, especially the
lovely Irish air “Last Rose of
Summer.” Justine Rettick gave
a delightfully vivacious perform-
ance as her companion in
domestic service. As the farmer
who subsequently turns out to
be the Earl of Derby, Laurence
Lott was stiff in action until he
warmed up, displayed a tenor of
uncommon richness though a
trifle unsteady on the top note,
and looked suitably romantic.
William Howard gave a robust
performance as his brother
Plunkett, but sounded as if he
were singing from the interior
of a haystack. Frederick Collier
gave his usual solid performance
as a sheriff, and Stefan Haag
was an orthodox Sir Tristan,
"Little lambs Eat Ivy."
Fifi Banvard’s production of
Noel Langley’s “Little Lambs Eat
Ivy,” at Sydney Minerva, is put
over with a good deal of boister-
ous enthusiasm which, although
not an effective substitute for
the subtlety and polish which the
author seems to have intended,
at least keeps the piece moving
and mildly entertaining. And,
after all, it is probably better to
do something with a bludgeon
than to do nothing trying to use
a rapier.
The play is set in the home of
an impoverished widow of a
theatrical knight whose sea of
troubles holds such fish as
months’ arrears in rent and the
butler’s wages; one daughter
about to have a baby upstairs
while her husband rushes about
the house in a perpetual panic ;
another daughter married to a
loutish literary poseur who'
attempts to seduce the youngest
daughter of the family ; and yet
another daughter brooding over
an affair which misfired when
the police arrested her boy-friend
in the hotel room they were
sharing. A good-looking young
man who comes for the rent and
a friendly family doctor add to
the population and confusion.
Mr, Langley is not above
twisting the long arm of coinci-
dence to force a solution for
some of the proceedings,
although, in a more polished per-
formance, some of his devices
would probably be less obvious.
The cast at the Minerva en-
ters —or is drawn —into the spirit
of the production, most of the
players contributing more noise
and action than artistry. Richard
Parry’s family doctor, Kathleen
Robinson’s Lady Buckingham
and Kevin O’Donnell’s expect-
ant father are the most com-
mendable performances. Gor-
don Chater, as the literary
faker, begins well, but blows his
performance to smithereens with
his final explosions.
Melbourne Music.
If Melbourne doesn’t reach
saturation point before the
season closes it will be surpris-
ing. What with Mr. Hollway
providing Music for the People
concerts at the Exhibition Build-
ing and subsidising grand opera
and symphonic music, the Mel-
bourne Symphony Orchestra
turning itself into the Victorian
State orchestra, and Paul Fiddian
threatening to reorganise the
old University Conservatorium
Orchestra, recapture its old
title of “Melbourne” and give
concert series. Professor Heinze
supplying his engaging youth
concerts, and guest conductors
pouring in on all sides, there
won’t be many nights of the
week in which the determined
music-lover won’t have to dredge
into his pockets for the price of
a ticket.
How the programme-builders
are to maintain the originality of
their programmes is a mystery.
There is hardly a man, woman
or child in the country’s most
musical city who isn’t as familiar
with the three Bs, not to men-
tion ■ Shostakovich and Stra-
vinsky, as he is with Duke Elling-
ton and Gershwin, and it may
yet bo necessary for Mr. Holl-
way to subsidise a school for
composers to supply the raw
material to keep the wheels of
the art or industry going.
The first Music for the People
concert at the Exhibition Build-
ing, conducted by Hector Craw-
ford, was attended by upwards
of 10,000. There was plenty of
audience but not much music.
The Victorian Symphony Orch-
estra, conducted by Percy Code,
gave its second concert of a
special series at the Town Hall.
A distinguished programme
included Handel’s Concerto for
Orchestra, Butterworth’s Shrop-
shire Lad Rhapsody, the gigantic
Enigma Variations of Elgar and
the lovely “Romeo and Juliet”
overture of Tschaikowsky,
* * * *
Four pianists and two singers
battled it out at Sydney Town
Hall with the help of the Sym-
phony Orchestra under Eugene
Goossens in the State final of
the A.B.C.’s Concerto and Vocal
Competition obviously vocal
and instrumental sections should
be separate. Selection went to
Ron Jackson, who used a good
bass-baritone with plenty of fire
in the Credo from Verdi’s
“Otello.” Runner-up was Alan
Light, another bass-baritone,
who sang a recitative and air
from “The Marriage of Figaro.”
Richard Bonyuge was highly
commended for a rendition of
the first movement of the Beeth-
oven Concerto No. 4 which
would not have disgraced a
front-rank virtuoso. The other
pianists, all of whom reached a
high standard, were Moneta
Eagles, Marie Van Hove and
Robert Kolben.
**, * *
At his Sydney Con. recital last
week New Zealand pianist Peter
Cooper produced ■ a polished
technique in a programme which
included sonatas by Mozart and
Beethoven. He crossed the “ts”
and dotted the “is” a shade too
meticulously in the Bach-Tausig
Toccata and Fugue in D Minor,
but his delicate interpretation of
the Mozart Sonata in A Minor
left nothing to be desired, whilst
he invested the Beethoven work
(op. 101) with excellent phrasing
and well-controlled strength. A
Chopin group comprised mazur-
kas and etudes, the E Minor
Nocturne and the B Minor
Scherzo played with fine
dramatic power.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Meaning of aboriginal place-name
“Burramugga.”—4633.
To buy recent copies of the “Satur-
day Evening P05t.”—4628.
To buy copy “Esquire” for October,
1943.-4630.
To buy book giving history of old
sailing-ships.—4632.
Englishman (40), skilled carpenter
and joiner, married, wife and two
children, seeks Australian nominator
for position and accommodation.
Reply direct to Sidney Rudman, 149
Swilly-road, Devonport, Devon, Eng-
land.
To buy copy of The Billy Book
by David L0w.—4631.
Words of poem containing the
lines:
The cohorts who fought when the world
was young
Have their blood-red legends told.
—4629.
Information Sought.
Formula for a waterproof white-
wash, using ground rice, whiting and
glue?
Assemble 2 pecks unslaked lime, 1
peck common salt, 31b. ground rice,
ilb. whiting, 11b. clean white glue,
and sufficient water to follow recipe.
Slake the lime in a vessel of about 10
gallons capacity; cover it, then strain
and add the salt, previously dissolved
in hot water. Blend the rice with
cold water to a paste and add enough
water to boil it to thickening stage;
soak the glue in covering water and
dissolve in a water-bath as usual,
then add it with the rice to the lime.
Stir in the whiting and add 5 gallons
water to the mixture, stirring all well
together. Cover to protect from dirt,
and let stand for a few days before
using. It should be applied hot, so
take a paint-tin full and heat over an
outside fire; keep warm in a bucket
of hot water while using, and paint
on smoothly.
* * * *
Meaning and origin of the slang-
word “furphy” ?
At the outbreak of World War I
the metal-bodied carts used in Vic-
torian military camps for water and
sanitary purposes were supplied from
the foundry established by John
Furphy at Shepparton (Vic.) in 1874.
The name of Furphy appeared on
each vehicle, with the slogan, “Good,
better, best; never let it rest, till your
good is better, and your better best.”
Camp rumors or latrine rumors came
to be known as “furphies,” and from
its original military use it spread into
popular speech.
* * * *
Deakin, in his “The Federal Story,”
describes Sir Charles Dilke in the
House of Commons, and refers to a
“catastrophe” that excluded him from
Ministerial office for ever. What was
the catastrophe ?
He was cited as co-respondent in a
divorce suit brought by Donald Craw-
ford, Liberal M.P. for Lanark. Mrs.
Crawford was the sister-in-law of
■ Dilke’s brother Ashton, and the pro-
ceedings caused great scandal. The
case against Dilke was dismissed, but
he determined to retire from public
life. Later, Chamberlain overruled
his determination to retire from
politics and he re-entered the House
of Commons, but could never recover
his official position in public life.
Brief Answers.
K.G.: This natural phenomenon is
fairly common amongst mangoes and
avocadoes. Of the several stems,
only one originated as a result of the
fertilisation of the ovary of the fruit.
The others arose from tissue sur-
rounding the embryo and are, in
general, less vigorous. It is usual to
select the stem resulting from true
fertilisation... .M. 8.: Such material
would be protected by copyright, and
its use without permission would be
illegal. It would be inadvisable to
use the names of the characters sug-
gested W.F.8.: Authorities on the
language say that they cannot deter-
mine the meaning of the suffix
“bone.” Some informants say it
means “water,” and sometimes
“place.” The language there was not
studied in time to enable them to
determine the meanings of suffixes.
. ...Q.8.: (1) Such action would
constitute a breach of contract, giv-
ing rise to a claim for damages
against which could be set off the
value of the work already done.
(2) Depends on terms of contract
A. 8.; Impossible to advise without
seeing constitution, rules, contract,
minute-book, etc. A vote of no-
confidence would not necessarily ter-
minate employment J.M.: Have it
valued by two or three reputable
jewellers, then offer it for sale at the
highest valuation either by one of
them or by a high-class auctioneer
who specialises in such goods.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
US. should be addressed to the Editor.
Pan-American Passenger: Would
like to hear more from you
L.V.: Not eligible for a poet’s licence
just yet... .M.McM.: Lay aside your
feverish pen and take up prawning.
... .N. 8.: Grieved to hear that the
widow’s horse wanders by night all
over the flower-beds, but there is no
printable story in the incident....
Bellerive: It would have pleased Sir
Francis Drake:—
L.McG.; The bird doesn’t twitter
any fresh news T.C.K.; Never
try to flatter a star by comparing it
to an Eastern queen; some Eastern
queens are fat and ugly L.D.S.:
We’re not paying out on your “Day
at the Races”... .8.W.: Fuel’s hard
enough to get without our publicising
Indian fuel-merchants who hang
themselves as a political gesture
E.B.: Too real for a fairytale
and vice versa P.H.W.: “Me
Brother” is too long and thin a
relation... .H.R.S.: School-planning
story began well, but got ploughed in
its finals J.M.: Sympathetic trick-
sters need to be more ingenious than
your Maori... .J.P.C.: Not ordering
from your “sample story” JR- :
As good a story of double-crossing
illegal opossum-skinners as we ever
turned down... .D.M.H.: Pop, treed
by kangaroo, wondering whether the
law would let him kill it, doesn't
convince u5....N.D.: Sad reproach
in your sentimental dog’s eyes as we
ordered him home will remain with
us for weeks J.G.: Too cute, and
nothing really happened M.S.: No
publicity for Granny’s burial
R.J.L.: Shoes story shooed hpme.
B.W.M.: Telephone story didn't
ring our be 11... .L.S.C.R.-S.: But,
after all, they only buried them alive.
Though played for long years
By grey-haired old souls,
As popular as ever is
The favorite game bowls.
Interesting to watch
Are the veteran’s at play
On a bowling green
On a calm clear day.


FOR THAT TOUGH
TRUCKING
J 08...
m
I*
I : SSS- •: ’<
.
S'
SB::!
/ i
\ \
V
r»
Olympic
Crtiam
TRUCK TYRES
/MX Jitsfrtr/Mft ••' CfafMpfcfts of/6<? &aof
A PRODUCT QF THE OLYMPIC TYRE & RUBBER C,O. LTD. Sflg|
»Stc
0)23. 16.47
IMWIMM
Seventeen
Jewelled
Swiss
Masterpieces
■•V.'
OP
pe
esq
tP e
op
e* c
IMWIMM
Watches
Founded in 1852
VILLERET, SUISSE
PIS« ! NO - SKOOTINJ - YACHT! NO
IK
OR
STORM PROOF
/ FULLY GUARANTEED
! LIGHTS EVERY TIME )
\ Available at all leading /
] tobacconists and stores [
-/ Australian Agents:
Maurice Newstead Pty. Ltd., Sydney.
Leonard F. Newstead Pty. Ltd., Melb.
CYC UNO - COIFIRQ - MOTOSfRC
Ancestors of
an Industry
A
A
u
John Stewart MacArtkur made only one
notable contribution to metallurgy, but within
twenty years it trebled the world's gold output. In
1886, when still a comparativly unknown chemist
engaged on research in Glasgow, he was called in
to report on a process for extracting gold from its
ores. The process had failed, and MacArthur
declared it to be unworkable. His researches en-
abled him to offer an alternative, the now famous
MacArthur-Forrest cyanide process, which he had
worked out in conjunction with two Scottish
physicians named Forrest. This enabled gold to
be extracted from low-grade ores. It revolutionised
gold recovery, and saved the Rand mines from
virtual extinction. Today all the great South
African mines treat the ore by the cyanide process,
and few mines in other parts of the world could
operate profitably without it.
MacArthur was born in 1857, and at the age of
fourteen entered the laboratories of the Tharsis
Sulphur & Copper Company in Glasgow as an
apprentice chemist. He left them in 1885 to join
the Drs. Forrest in research on gold and silver
extraction. By 1889 the MacArthur-Forrest
cyanide process was being tested on a plant scale
in New Zealand, and a’year later in South Africa.
Though MacArthur had further success—in .the
manufacture of radium compounds
and luminous paints —it is for his
great contribution to gold mining
that he is remembered. He died in
Pollokshields. Glasgow, in 1920.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
■ IL-77-I6 ——
ICI
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Around this time o’ year “system”
punters are apt to succumb to the
notion that following the jockeys at
the head of the list offers a sure route
to riches. Believe it not, brother.
Disputing the lead, and seeming
likely to have the battle to themselves
in Sydney, are N. Sellwood with 48£
winners and J. Thompson (474); next
on the list are G. Moore (28) and
apprentice R. Selkrig (17). Sellwood
and Thompson between them have
had more than 600 mounts so far
during the season, and some patient
statistician has calculated that an
investment of £1 straight out on each
of the said mounts has yielded a
profit of £l31 —for the bookmaker.
There seems no special reason to
believe that the dividend will improve
incredibly during the remaining couple
of months of the season.
Although he had mounts in every
race, including a couple of favorites,
Sellwood failed to ride a winner at
Randwick on Saturday. Thompson,
by the time he weighed out to ride
lolanda in the mile Carlita Handicap,
had strung up a sequence of 23 con-
secutive losing mounts. lolanda
started favorite at 7 to 4, and tem-
porarily broke the ice for Thompson,
defeating Sheba and Rosewell. How-
ever, Thompson had no further luck,
and wound up proceedings by finish-
ing stone-last on the well-backed
Thrums in the final race.
Nevertheless Thompson could be
thankful that his sequence of losers
was not in the same class as that of
G. Podmore, for whom success on
Menelik in the Warwick May Handi-
cap (12f.) finished a heart-breaking
run of 93 losers.
Punters had the six-furlongs Flying
Handicap pretty well summed up,
with The Groom (G. Moore) favorite
and Caruso and Denali equal second
favorites; they finished in that order.
With topweight of 9.2, The Groom
was conceding the field 91b. and up-
ward, but won pretty much as he
liked, though the margin was only
three parts of a length. .The promise
of a return to form shown by Rip-
tide at his previous start proved a
delusion; the once-outstandingly-good
youngster ran yet another very poor
race.
The handling of two-year-olds, par-
ticularly in tight finishes, is not
always a strong point with less-
experienced apprentice riders, but W.
Hughes, though still receiving a 71b.
allowance, has already shown rare
ability in that direction. The lad won
both juvenile events on Saturday, but
his efforts were appreciated more by
bookies than by most punters. Limy
Kristine, a daughter of Brueghel-
Steady Glass, started at 50 to 1 for
the Two-year-old Novice (fillies) and
pipped the odds-on favorite Mirnlee
by a half-head. In a similar event
for colts and geldings Hughes rode
the Tuhitarata colt Freyberg, and,
starting at twelves, Freyberg won
with a half-length to spare from the
well-fancied Citadel.
* * * *
A few more results like those of
the past couple of Saturdays and
Melbourne followers of the jumping
game will be harboring delusions that
picking the Grand double
is going to be child’s play. The four
cross-country events run over the
two days have been won by favorites,
three of them ridden by Ron Hall,
and if he continues in his present
vein, Hall is going to have some
difficulty deciding what he will ride
in the Nationals.
Though it might be stretching
coincidence a shade far, it is on the
cards for the Grand National double .
this year to be won by full-brothers. ;
At Caulfield the Grafton Steeple was ;
won by Jevington in fashion that I
gave the Caledon-Jevington Maid six-
year-old an excellent chance in the
National. Saturday’s Barkly Hurdle
at Flemington was won just as
brilliantly by Forfar, young as
jumpers go at four-years-old, and a
full brother to Jevington. Taking the
lead from the start, Forfar, with B.
R. Smith up, was only once in
danger—when he took off too early
but succeeded in a tremendous leap
at the last hurdle. Covering the
journey of 2 miles furlongs in
3.58 J, Forfar lopped three seconds off
the previous course-record and he
won by six lengths from Man o’ War,
with Jung Bahadur third.
Having given Forfar all his
schooling, R. Hall would possibly
have had the mount on Saturday had
he not held a prior engagement for
Faunus, who was scratched. In the
Grassmere Steeple, however, Hall was
on the favorite, Bronze Laddie, and
won comfortably from Quixotic and
Don Gipsy. Bronze Laddie won the
same race last year.
Sure to take a place in final Na-
tional discussions, Gallant Gentle-
man was let off with a run on the
flat on Saturday, and acquitted him-
self well in the 10-furlongs Koorlong
Handicap, won by O. R. Porter’s
oft-disappointing Chatspa. Porter is
probably quite right, and not referring
to the original purchase-price of
4000 guineas, when he describes
Chatspa as the dearest horse he has
owned. Gallant Gentleman looked a
definite chance at the distance, but
found the pace a shade hot over the
final furlong and was beaten in a
camera finish for third by Beau John,
Viceroy coming second.
Having his second run after a spell,
the crack two-year-old Regal Scout
looked a trifle gross to justify his
hot favoritism in the large field con-
testing the six-furlongs Ferndale
Handicap, and he was beaten more
than a length by the tip-top Mid-
stream filly Adda; Not Proven was
third.
Three-year-old colts Spoor and
Scotwyn fought out a rattling finish
in the six-furlongs Dover Handicap,
with Spoor (N. Powell) prevailing by
“Go away—were busy!”
a half-head. Spoor led nearly all
the way; Scotwyn appeared to gain
an edge nearing the post, but the
aptly-named Footmark colt came
again. The Cardinia Handicap (14f.)
went to the Caithness five-year-old
Iron Crown (W. Beresford) with
Britisher and Royal Title in the
places, and Ben Adhem (K. Smith)
won the Dingwall Highweight at the
surprisingly good odds of 20 to 1.
* * * *
For Randwick (before accept-
ances) :
Novice: Maranga, 1; Bay Rex, 2;
Jenval, 3. Two-year-old: Oomari-
daim, 1; Citadel, 2; Clubman, 3.
Juvenile Stakes (fillies): Perfect
Chatter, 1; Shasta, 2; Lady Kristine,
3. Three- and Four-year-okl: Rose-
well, 1; Sheba, 2; Perostan, 3.
Flying; Blue Tulip, 1; Verbage, 2;
Deep Sea, 3. James Barnes Plate:
Johnny Zero, 1; Titanic, 2; Laudus,
3. Welter: Uranium, 1; Bold Archer,
2; Marnrak, 3.
* * * *
“Curyo Charlie” is full of pride:—
Bring out your Carbon Copy,
Bernbrook, and the rest of them.
My money’s for old Resgras, a Hol-
brook (N.S.W.) neddy that went to
the Holbrook Picnics on 6/5/’49 and
won his three races in the one after-
noon, which’li do me. A son of
Caravis-First Plea, the aged gelding
carried 10.13 in the 6-furlongs Bracelet
against a field of five, won by li
lengths and cut it out in 1.16. He’d
hardly got his breath when sent out
in the next, a 4-furlongs dash for
lady riders, seven runners. Resgras
had 9.10 and won by a length in
48fsec. He was 4-to-l at his first
start and fives at his second, but
when he went out for the Owners’
Flutter (4f.), with 11.12 up, they fell
over themselves to get set at 5-to-2
on. Never in doubt. The Holbrook
champ, won by eight lengths, taking
a second longer than his other half-
mile. If you think the opposition
was poor, have another look at the
times.
* * * *
In a letter to “S. M. Herald” last
week, L. C, Robson extolled the
virtues of the rowing course offered
by the Nepean River at Penrith
(N.S.W.), with the suggestion (getting
in early) that it would be the ideal
venue for the Olympic Games rowing
events in 1956. And so it would,
for at Penrith eight crews, and
possibly more if necessary, can row
comfortably abreast dead-straight
for three miles or more; it would
eliminate heats, which can be often
unfair, and would present a magnifi-
cent spectacle. However, Mr. Robson
probably is displaying an optimism
which may shift mountains, but is
unlikely to move Melbourne.
* * * *
Reporting the Paddon-Cook pro.
sculling match, it was stated here last
week that “ lo’sing his advantage
at the last buoy, Paddon folded up
surprisingly and was beaten by nine
lengths.” To keep the record straight
it should be mentioned that referee
George Towns belatedly announced
that for fouling the turn at the
last buoy he had disqualified Paddon,
who then merely paddled along to
complete the course.
$ $ $ $
Although a strong wind gummed
things up somewhat on Saturday,
some of the V.F.L. games gave the
barrackers a taste of real football,
with close finishes to keep them in
the grounds to the final bell. At
M.C.G., for instance, only 15,000
turned up to see Melbourne play
North because Melbourne was con-
sidered a superior team. Not now.
North met the Demons with every-
thing, and led all the way to win
by two points, 6.12-5.16. There was
another two-pointer at Carlton, where
35,000 saw the Blues down Colling-
wood by 9.5 to 8.9, and out at
Essendon 22,000 saw Richmond
Tigers worried out of the prize by
7.14 to 5.14. Geelong, now well in
the winning list, walloped St. Kilda,
15.13-10.11; Fitzroy ran over Haw-
thorn, 12.11-7.11; and Footscray topk
another lacing, this time from South
Melbourne, 10.8-6.14.
* * * *
A crowd of 10,000 Bananalanders
turned up to watch their reps, make
a very sorry showing against the
visiting N.S.W. Rugby Union team
at Brisbane on Saturday. The final
score was 29-8. Although the side
was soundly trounced, Q’landers
Broad, Harvey and Bickett played
well enough to deserve selection for
the Australian team due to play the
Maoris next month.
In Union grade matches in Sydney,
Gordon beat Manly 14-11, Randwick
stoushed Easts 26-8, Eastwood downed
Parramatta 11-9, Norths had Manly
under control at 29-11, and St.
George beat Wests 16-11. With four
byes arranged for them in the com-
petition, the University team is tour-
ing New Zealand; in their first
match, at Wellington on Saturday,
they downed New Zealand Univer-
sities 8-3.
Being a last-minute substitute for
Novocastrian George Kapeen against
Bernie Hall (9.12£) at Leichhardt,
Jackie Wilson (9.6) might be excused
his very poor showing, though such
affairs are a bit tough on the cus-
tomers; Wilson was t.k.o.’d early in
the fourth round. Commencing con-
fidently, Hall attacked Wilson solidly
at first, and, scoring two knockdowns
in the second round, obviously had
no chance of losing. Wilson out-
pointed Hall in round three, where-
upon the ref. ordered Hall to stop
stalling, and in the following round
he soon had Wilson on the mat again.
The knockdown punch did not seem
unduly severe, but Mawson declared
for Hall without bothering to count.


KEEP IT
AND COMFORTABLE
praa
m
w
7)
Somebody hurt!
Then reach for the .
Elastoplast, the famous
first aid dressing that is
e-l-a-s-t-i-c for greater com-
fort, The handy red tin contains
dressings of various size and shape
to give correct protection to every
injury. Flesh-coloured and incon-
• * miu JU.4V.UXX- A I
spicuous, too! € <Ar
tiastpyiSss
- c f^ o^;iiSSiM6S
A product 0/ T. J. Smith & Nephew
Hull. England.
m
Ltd
MB
SIZED AND SHAPED
FOR EVERY NEED
IN THE HANDY RED TIN
At chemists
everywhere,
v E5/129
Position Wanted.
Middle-aged man, with Administrative and
Secretarial experience, wants position of
trust. Returned soldier. Long country
experience.—No. 327, Advt. Dept., Bulle-
tin Newspaper, Sydney.
Guarantee
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
IMITATION IS SINCEREST FORM OF FLATTERY
Beware of imitations similar In appearance hut lacking the internal patent which
makes the Hygeia Dissolvenator so efficient. Intending: nurchasera
are invited to investigate the integrity of
the Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd., the
bona tides of the Hygeia Dissolvenator,
as well as the value and scope of the
Hygeia Guarantee compared with any
other guarantee.
The Hygeia Guarantee includes 7 years
against corrosion.
Let the record of the 12,000 Dissolven-
ators sold ’ during the past 22 years be
your guide—do not be misled by specious
statements.
N.S.W.; Hygeia Dissolvenator Diet. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenators (QTand), 609 Colonial Mutual Building,
Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA; Hygeia Dissolvenators (Vic.) Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Building,
Bundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: E. P. Mclnerney & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd., Launceston and Hobart.
The self-contained, self-emptying Sanitary System
(Established 1927)
HYGEIA
Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
•Established SO years ..
DISTRIBUTOES:
V
ssi?
m
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Drought-feeding.
“Atlanta”; After the recent
central Queensland drought
some interesting facts on hand-
feeding came out. It was found,
for instance, that concentrates
such as maize, wheat and sorg-
hum and manufactured meat-
meal, linseed-meal, cottonseed
meal or nuts are usually the
cheaper feeds, despite higher
cost, because: (1) A smaller
ration can be fed to maintain
the sheep; for example, half as
much maize is required as
lucerne chaff or hay; (2) rail
freight and cartage charges are
less; (3) fewer bags to handle.
How the stuff is fed depends
mainly on local conditions, but a
combination of troughs and
broadcasting was usually suc-
cessful. Since young breeding
ewes will constitute the founda-
tion of a future flock they must
receive preferential treatment.
A survey of properties which
fed sheep during drought re-
vealed: (1) That cheapest feed-
ing was achieved by those who
watched the grain prices care-
fully and bought accordingly.
(2) Most efficient feeding, judged
by labor requirements, sheep
losses and flock condition for
ration-fed, was attained by those
who kept flocks under close
supervision in comparatively
small yards or paddocks. (3)
Greatest overall success was
attained by those who disposed
of surplus sheep early in the
year, divided flocks on a strength
basis and fed sheep before they
got too weak.
An outstanding example was
a property where the flock was
divided into two approximately
equal groups on age and
strength basis. Young sheep
were kept close and trough-fed,
while older ewes were turned
into a large, lightly-timbered
area, where the low-stocking
rate, windfalls and a small
supplementary ration assured
survival of a large proportion.
Most costly errors were; (1)
Incorrect buying and feeding of
large quantities of expensive
roughage; (2) feeding too small
a ration, deficient in nutriment;
(3) wrongly estimating numbers
of sheep in a paddock and under-
—or over- —feeding in conse-
quence ; (4) allowing sheep to
walk too far in large, bare pad-
docks.
Pastures in Vic.’s North-east.
“Mr.”: Although not as good
as in parts of Gippsland and the
Western district they’re improv-
ing, mainly owing to sub.-super.
combination. Where rainfall ex-
ceeds 25in. and on land with a
northerly aspect, Vic. Depart-
ment of Agriculture is recom-
mending the mid-season strain
of sub.-clover, Mt. Barker, using
a bag of super, to the acre. In
later areas, with a better rain-
fall, the late-flowering Tallarook
is suggested. It’s less productive
in the winter than Mt. Barker,
but makes its flush growth later
and remains green longer. On
the country west of the Hume
Highway, with a 21in. rainfall,
the department recommends a
mixture of Bacchus Marsh and
Dwalganup, 31b. to the acre.
Perennial rye does well on the
deeper alluvial loams of the
valleys of the north-east, but
but won’t persist beyond the
first season or two on light hill
country with a rainfall lower
than 25in. On the deep alluvials
a rye-grass seeding of 51b. with
31b. of sub. clover will provide
a good, persistent pasture if leni-
ently grazed in its first season.
Phalaris, the department finds,
is well suited to the north-east,
even on rising hill country, if
adequately topdressed and not
punished too severely. Once
established it’s exceptionally ten-
acious, in its first season
is sensitive to competition. In a
trial at Wangaratta it was
demonstrated that Phalaris can
be readily established with a
sowing of as little as lib. of seed
to the acre, provided the land is
well prepared and free of weeds
beforehand. The department,
however, strongly advises against
sowing perennial rye with the
Phalaris. This element could be
introduced later, but not until
the Phalaris is well-established.
Use of Fowl Manure.
“J.J.A.”: Fowl manure is one
of the richest manures and
should never be thrown .away.
For top-dressing it is much more
efficient than super., as it en-
riches the ground instead of
tending to impoverish it. Lucerne
simply thrives on it. Growth
and rapidity of growth are many
times increased. It should be
broadcast on as soon as the
previous stand is cut and re-
moved. Spread evenly and fairly
thickly, but thin enough so the
ground can still be seen through
it. It will burn the new growth
if applied too thickly. If pos-
sible, flood or sprinlde immedi-
ately and growth will begin right
away. If the lucerne is well irri-
gated the manure can be applied
every cut.
Wonders can be done with
fowl manure for vegetables.
Generally it is best to apply it
“Slip your boot and let him go!”
down the centre of the rows,
taking care to prevent the veges
from coming in contact with the
manure, which will burn them.
Application to fruit-trees is
slightly different. The manure
is spread thickly on the culti-
vated portion under the tree,
keeping it away from the actual
trunk. The purpose of this is
threefold. First as a manure
of which the trees can take a
considerable amount, secondly
forming a type of mulch, thirdly
by checking the growth of weeds
by burning them off, while the
tree remains unharmed, as the
manure is not in actual contact
with it. Manure that is caked is
best_for this.
A Sticky Position.
“Don Drone”: Australian
honey-producers will probably
have to face a big drop in over-
seas markets in the not-too-
distant future. At present our
best customer is the U.K., but
indications are that this will not
last much longer. Already im-
port licences have been granted
for 500 tons of Chilean honey,
which can be marketed in Lon-
don cheaper than Australian.
Add to this the fact that our
eucalypt honey is not really pre-
ferred in England because of its
strong flavor and also an almost
complete lack of any rational
system of standardisation and
grading and the result is not a
very encouraging outlook.
If we are to compete with
Continental and American sup-
pliers we will have to produce a
strictly-graded honey of high
quality at a cheaper rate than at
present. As with our other ex-
ports to Europe, we have the
disadvantage of higher costs of
freight, the margin being hard
to eliminate by increased effici-
ency of the apiarist. Emphasis
will have to be placed on the
quality factor.
On the home market prospects
are not much brighter. Honey
consumption is far below what
it might be. The apathy or lack
of organisation on the part of
apiarists in the past accounts
largely for this. No enduring,
concerted effort has ever been
made to publicise and popu-
larise honey on the home mar-
ket, and much of the stuff sold
here is of very inferior quality
and flavor, often containing con-
siderable quantities of pollen
and wax particles and candying
far too rapidly.
The Zebu.
“Nedrium”: The. zebu can do
much to improve our tropical
cattle (B. 6/4/’49), but the rigid
quarantine regulations make it
difficult to get cattle from over-
seas countries that have cattle
diseases as yet absent in Aus-
tralia. What’s more, there will
be interests within Australia
that will try to keep the zebu or
zebu-cross out. Pure-breeders
who have invested large sums in
stud Herefords and Anguses are
not to be expected to be very
keen on the importation, and
these people will probably be
represented on any body that
advises on cattle schemes in our
north.
Dr. John Hammond, who
conducted a survey of our cattle
industry 10 years ago, mentioned
the development of the zebu
cross and noted that the survival
rate of the breeding stock is
greater ; that the young animals
grow faster —not forgetting im-
portant resistance to ticks and
tick-fever.
To solve the quarantine prob-
lem Prof. S. M. Wadham sug-
gested artificial insemination.
Semen from selected zebu sires
in Ceylon could be flown under
special conditions to waiting
Australian dams in the Wes-
tralian cattle areas. This seems
to be one way out, and could
be given a trial.
Gammexane.
“Beroo”: North Queensland
farmers are in no two minds
about its value for control of
the root-eating cane-grubs, and
it is expected that about 350
tons (sufficient to treat nearly
8000 acres) will be ordered for
the coming season. The usual
application for the plant crop is
about 1001 b. per acre applied in
bands a few inches wide along
the drill and scuffled in. Horse-
drawn machines developed from
various types of fertiliser-
spreaders are used for the job.
Sugar Experiment Station
officials are at the moment en-
gaged on work to determine the
most effective method of appli-
cation and just how much will
be required to provide protec-
tion for the ratoon as well as
the plant crop. Current experi-
ments have shown that treated
crops give bigger stools than the
untreated, and so increase yields
in the ratoons.
Cane Varieties.
“Sarina”: Q. 28 cane has done
well in the Mackay district
(N.Q.), but millers now state
that it is diseased (B. 13/4/’49).
To date, plant crops of Q. 28
have been excellent, even on the
poorer, long-cultivated soils, but
it is not considered a very good
ratooner. Some farmers can-
not grow it because it does not
ratoon on their farms.
It has been suggested that the
poor ratooning is caused by the
disease. Millers also state that
this disease is already present in
Q. 50.
Besides its weak-ratooning
habit, Q. 28 is also very suscept-
ible to wallaby damage. (Heavy
damage was done by wallabies
to Q. 28 crops in 1946.) Any old
rubbishy Q. 28 has been found
to make the best planting
material; farmers who’ve
planted setts from good cane
have often reported a very poor
strike.
C 0.290 is an Indian-bred cane
that is on the way out in the
Mackay district. It crops heavily
(plant and ratoons) on poor
land, but it dries up quickly in
the dry winters at Mackay. The
sugar content is always low (at
13 per cent, or so), and it drops


d
For immediate delivery contact
Famous British
ENGINES
are
NOW
AVAILABLE
at
REDUCED
PRICES
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY. LTD.
’PHONE: MA 6311 7-11 MARKET ST., SYDNEY
The Toast of
Connoisseurs 7
for
' asking
on 11
Keep
1
BRA^ dY
Ite : r
f
m mpm
AT HOMEBUSH
• OR ANY OTHER
YARD. ...
you WILL BE SORE TO GET
TOP Market Value
IF YOU CONSIGN YOUR STOCK TO
86 Years In the Service of the Man on the Land
INC. IN ENGLAND. 1863.
&MLF
AUSTRALIAN. MERCANTILE. LAND & FINANCE COY. LTD.
4 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
AND AX MELBOURNE AND BRISBANE.
Country Branches—N.S.W.: Newcastle, Wagga, Henty, Hay, Cowra,
Scone, Moree, Garah, Wee Waa, Brewarrina. Q’ld; Townsville,
Charleville, St. George, Cunnamnlla, Dirranbandi. Assoc. Agents;
McPhie & Co. Pty., Ltd., Toowoomba, Oakey, Dalby and Pittsworth.
The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
grinder discs—recommended for shearing-shed work.
n
40z., Boz., 160 z., 1 gallon sizes . . . Hardware and general stores.
I
"I
l m
I
I
\
1
-
WORLDS LARGEST,
NEW MODEL HD-5, 37 drawbar h;p.,
11,000 lb. Tractor smallest of AC
crawler range, featuring 2-cycle diesel
power with electric push-button starting.
A
*2
3k
W. SPEED PATROL. 31 belt horsepower
—26 drawbar horsepower—lo ft. blade,
ideal light machine for grading,
maintenance and construction.
MOST PRODUCTIVE TRACTOR
Far ahead in performance and easy servicing.
This revolutionary ALLIS - CHALMERS
HD-19, with hydraulic Torque Converter
Drive, has a draw-bar pull of more than
36,000 pounds! The HD-19 moves heavier
loads at greater average speeds than ever
thought possible. LONGER LIFE years of
extra use are built into the HD-19,' and its
simplified maintenance means better main-
tenance. GREATER OPERATOR COM-
FORT, fingertip hydraulic steering, self-
energising brakes, new type adjustable split
seat, torque converter elimination of most
gear shifting, are all big features of this
completely new, thoroughly modern tractor.
ALUS - CHALMERS
to nothing in a drought. Like
Q. 28, it strikes best from miser-
able setts.
Adhesives.
“Dusty Mile”: To make glue
to withstand moisture, soften the
glue in water, pour the water
off, adding linseed-oil in the
proportion of one part oil to
eight parts glue, then gently melt
at a moderate heat.
If an adhesive is required to
make a joint with a smooth, hard
surface, add sugar in the propor-
tion of half a teaspoon to a pint.
Sugar being hygroscopic con-
tinues to absorb sufficient mois-
ture from the air to prevent the
cracking and peeling which re-
sults when an attempt is made
to stick things to a highly-
polished surface.
Ordinary office paste is made
by mixing starch in cold water
to a paste upon which boiling
water is poured until the first
blue streak appears, then the
mixture is well stirred. If a few
drops of formalin are added the
paste will keep indefinitely, and
work done with it will not be
attacked by insects.
Salt.
“R. Howie”: Westralian De-
partment of Agriculture found
no improvement in crops by sub-
soiling saline land. My experi-
ence has been that any cultiva-
tion aggravates salt trouble. Sub-
soiling, being simply deeper and
more thorough cultivation, can
do nothing but harm in the long
run.
Salt can be beaten only by
converting to grazing. Salt-
tolerant herbage should be
propagated, and, if necessary,
protected at first from stock and
rabbits. Rye-grass and King
Island clover {Melilotus indica)
are best for land slightly affected.
Where the trouble is more
severe saltbush is the best bet.
Try several varieties to find the
one that suits the locality.
Where saltbush fails do not
give in, because the patch will
probably spread. The two most
common salt - tolerant native
plants—yellow button-weed and
blue-flowered saltweed • both
respond to super, and should be
encouraged to cover the ground.
Even if you are only growing a
crop of stinkwort you are pre-
venting evaporation and so con-
trolling the salt.
Remember that all rain and
almost all ground-water contains
minute traces of salt. If water
transpires from bare ground a
concentration of salt at the sur-
face is inevitable.
Land that remains moist
through hot, dry weather is most
liable to salt, but is easiest to
control. Almost all summer-
growing grasses have some salt-
resistance. Paspalum and couch
are the easiest to establish. If
the ground remains damp right
to the top in all seasons a fine
pasture can be made of straw-
berry-clover and water-couch.
Both respond to nitrogen
manures as well as super.
Tree Seeds.
“Big Billy”: When collecting
seed from trees from which it is
intended to make extensive
plantings watch the following
points; With eucalypts make
sure that the capsules are mature.
They should be at least 12
months old. After gathering,
place in thick paper-bag or
cardboard-box in a warm situa-
tion. Capsules will then open,
releasing the seed.
Collect conifer seed at
maturity and place the cones in
a stove with a moderate fire to
hasten opening of the scales.
Tapping the cones with the
pointed end downwards will
assist. Don’t give heat-treat-
ment to cypress - pines or
cypress.
Wattle seed can be collected
by harvesting the pods when
they turn to a yellowish-brown
color or when the seed has
turned black. After the pods
have dried, remove the seed by
threshing or lightly rubbing be-
tween the hands. Seeds en-
closed by a fleshy covering, such
as the Eugenias (lilypilly) should
be cleaned before sowing,
although generally if the coat is
allowed to dry out before sow-
ing germination will not be
affected.
Hints for the Farm.
“Kiwarra”: Those who like
their rum without the dash of
“spirit-soluble shirlan” (recom-
mended as a remedy by the
C.5.1.R., B. 30/3/’49) can use
a much simpler method, Sun r dry
the waterbag every few days or,
alternatively, use two bags.
Using artesian water and sun-
drying the bag every few days it
will last more than one summer.
Without drying, the bag will rot
in less than three weeks.
“C.S.”: The second three-day
show of poultry, pigeon and
cage-birds will be held at Sydney
Showground June 16-18. There
are 872 classes, covering all
varieties of domestic birds.
Closing date of entries is May
21.
“K.T.”: The more severely
chicks are culled in the brooder-
house the greater the advantages.
It is better to kill a chick not
quite up to the mark before it
has cost no more than a few
pence than to wait till it has
grown into uselessness. Culling
should be strict in the growing
stages as well. Some types to be
culled in the growing stages are
weedy or mopey ones, which
thereby show poor constitution,
and those with defects such as
pearl eyes, one eye and coarse-
ness. They are never good layers,
although sometimes fully-grown
coarse birds breed excellent exhi-
bition stock when mated to a
finer-bred mate.
“Bill C.”: Disconnecting the
battery guards against the risk
of it being flat when the car is
needed in a week’s time. There
may be a small “short” some-
where in the wiring that could
run down the battery in quick
time.
“He-Ne”: Herbs-growers who
expanded production to meet
war requirements now find that
European imports are cutting
badly into their market. They
have asked the Tariff Board for
a duty of about ss. per lb. It
is claimed that local herbs, be-
cause they are fresh when dried,
contain more flavor and are
better suited for culinary pur-
poses than many imports, which
are often dusty and of poor
quality. The Australian herb in-
dustry has a potential produc-
tion of £20,000 a year if it en-
joyed adequate protection,
“W. Court”; New traps have
a smell that is readily detected
by dingoes and other animals.
Bury them in the earth for a
fortnight before using. Bright
snares should also be dimmed by
hanging them in the chimney-
smoke for a few days.
“Rooster”; There’s little to be
done in the vegetable garden so
far as planting goes just now,
so improve the layout for better
results and easier working. Long,
narrow beds, running north and
south, about four or five feet
wide, and divided by a narrow
walk, are the easiest to work.
This aspect gives the vegetable
the maximum amount of
sunshine. Undue trampling of
the soil is avoided, as the beds
can be worked from either side.
Mulch in plenty of decayed
animal manure and don’t let the
beds become too dry. Plan the
garden near a good water-supply.


M
w
HO
m
ARD
B Hi
The most vital part of a bail-point
pen is the refill. Unless you are assured
of 100% service in this direction your
pen cannot serve you fully.
Biro the world's most famous ball-
point pen —is obtainable throughout
the Eastern hemisphere.
Discriminating writers choose Biro for
the dependability of this service as
much as for Biro's convenience and
ease of writing. Biro refills are
guaranteed to give satisfaction in
whatever country they are sold. They
start writing and keep on writing. Biro
service is always at your service.
All Stationers, Jewellers and Stores.
"Magnum" Refills 3/9 each.
Buy as many as you wantl
BP3I/16
O
o
ISH BALL POINT PEN
str °ng est
in
the 'h a .
'in
SMOKERS
PIPE TOBACCOS THAT ARE
BLENDED TO GIVE
SATISFACTION TO ALL.
HOUSE OF MURPHY. A blend of
the highest grade of leaf to give a
cool smoke of satisfaction that men
prefer. 22/- per lb. Posted.
A.A.A. HtLUTOP. A blend of
Australian, American and African.
20/- per lb. Posted.
WINSTON BEADY RUBBED
CIGARETTE TOBACCO. Greatly
improved by better blending of
mature leaf. 24/- per lb. Posted.
Special Quotes to Retailers for lots 20lb.
weight or over.
Write to: Cash Order Dept.,
Hillman Trading Co.,
Commercial Road, Brisbane.
Postage paid on Cash with order.
Postage extra on C.O.D. Orders.
Sores caused by
chafing nankins
are soon healed by Cuticura
Ointment. Stops itching
and irritation and assures
undisturbed sleep.
septic . Cuticura cannot
harm baby’s tender skin.
One of the famous trio—
Cuticura Ointment, Snap
and Talcum Powder. -
fd
“Now
I do without
Head Office meetings!”
r"4
'S':.
Seeing my overseas representatives at regular
intervals is a ‘must* in my business. One way
is annual meetings in the Head Office. But
this is expensive and means that all my branch
offices are under-manned at the same time.
My way is different: I visit my people in their
normal business habitats, so to speak. Fine, fast Speedbird sendee
makes this possible. I notify my men when to expect me, arrange a
booking through my local 8.0.A.C. Appointed Agent—and off I go!
I save time and money, meet all the people I should, and really
learn lots more about my business.
Wherever your branch offices may be located, you can probably do
the same thing because 150,000 miles of 8.0.A.C.
air routes link five continents and forty-two
countries. Remember too, wherever you fly by
Speedbird, you can expect the same high standard
of efficiency, courtesy and passenger comfort. It’s
all part of 8.0.A.C.’s 30-year-old tradition of
Speedbird service and experience.
" Ell
MM
r
GREAT BRITAIN • USA • BERMUDA • CANADA • MIDDLE EAST
WEST AFRICA • EAST AFRICA • SOUTH AFRICA • PAKISTAN • INDIA
CEYLON • AUSTRALIA • NEW ZEALAND • FAR EAST • JAPAN
8.0.A.C. TAKES GOOD CARE OF YOU
FIV BOAC
Information Bookings : Qantas Empire Airways Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Townsville, Cairns, Darwin (General Agents in
Australia ), or from Booking Agents in all cities.
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS EMPIRE AIR-
WAYS LTD., TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD. & SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS.
t a n
30
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I Drink
for wise men
“Have we lost the art of growing
old gracefully?” —Sydney “D.T.”
The figures available suggest
that this is so.
4* 4* 4 1
“Mason, who is 35, spares nobody.
James Mason is his real name. He
was born on May 15, 1909.”
—“Pocket Book
James, whose real name is
James, was about five before he
learnt to count.
4* 4*
“Gone are the days when girls sat
demurely waiting for the man to take
the initiative.” —Magazine article.
And few today are out of date.
4* , .4* *
Accommodation, private, attrac-
tive furnished home, half house,
mar. bus. couple or one cultured
bus.” —Suburban paper.
A conditional stopping-place.
“Shortage of dollars has resulted
in a drop of over three million pounds’
worth of cosmetics from U.S.A. to
the British Empire.”
_ This vanishing “cream” means
a serious loss to make up.
“I don’t mind paying 2s. for a
haircut if I could get a decent one.”
—Letter to Melbourne daily.
But the trouble is that some
barbers merely trim you.
4* 4* 4*
“Lost, black and white foxie,
answers to name of Socks.”
—Local paper.
He should be easily brought tp
heel.
•I*
“Wanted, canteen assist., hours
1.30 a.m.-4 p.m., rec. leave, sick pay,
excellent conditions.”
—Suburban paper.
Including no overtime.
Cashing-in On Scents.
“The best way for a woman to
snare a man is to wear scent that
reminds him of a pleasant experience
a long time ago, according to French
perfumery expert Wladimir Golenko.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun."
When first / saw my little blonde
I felt my eager heart respond
To charms of hair and lips and
eyes
As blue as cloudless summer
skies;
And yet, endowed with native
caution,
l strove to keep within propor-
tion
My growing love, lest, like a
fool,
I’d yield myself to woman’s rule.
And. though she never once
desisted
From female guile l still resisted
The frangipani in her hair
And perfumes culled from every-
where.
Until one night she nestled near
With something dabbed behind
her ear
That brought my heart into my
throat —
It smelt just like my first pound
note !
BERT.
Spurred and Booted.
“Horse kicks trainer."
—Sydney “Sun.”
The punter, on the other hand.
Invests his hard-earned pelf
On this and other neddies, and
When he and they have failed to
land
The bacon, kicks himself!
P.M.
Highly Strung.
“British greyhound and racehorse
owners are having their animals
treated for nerves by a Harley-street
specialist.”
I first suspected that my horse
was suffering from acute
neurosis when, just before a
race, he happened to see his
trainer coming towards him
holding a ' large hypodermic
needle. The way its usually
placid face was instantly trans-
formed into a mass of teeth and
eyeballs convinced me it was in
urgent need of psychotherapy
treatment. So I made an ap-
pointment with a specialist.
The fact that when I backed
the horse into the lift and said
“Seventh floor” it began to
tremble violently and then
kicked a few of the lift-driver’s
front teeth out gave confirma-
tion that I had taken remedial
measures none too soon.
“What name, please?” asked
the little blonde in the reception-
room.
“You Beaut,” I answered.
“Cut out the compliments and
stick to business,” she said coylv.
“Now”-
Just then the alienist came out
of the surgery. A referee’s
whistle was tied around his neck
by a string of cocktail-frankfurts,
and he was playing with a toy
rubber duck. He looked at me
keenly, came up and turned one
of my eyelids back, then turned
to his assistant.
“Observe,” he said, “the silly
expression and the way his
Adam’s apple oscillates. Pretty
far gone, I’d say.” He turned
to the receptionist. “Is this the
one that has fits?”
“No, starts,” I said. “I don’t
mind how many of them he has ;
it’s the finishes that have had
me worried,” I pointed to the
horse I was holding. “His nerves
badly need treating.”
The specialist looked at the
moke in surprise. “I hadn’t
noticed him here before,” he
exclaimed. “Has he been sleep-
ing badly?”
“What’s he got to lose any
sleep about?” I asked in return.
“I’m the one who pours the
dough down the sink every time
the hickey-hock climbs aboard.
He’s such a nervous wreck he
can’t win a race.”
The great alienist got behind
the horse, blew up a paper-bag
and burst it. One second after
the report he was describing a
graceful parabola, finally hitting
the table-telephone on the first
bounce.
When I had helped him to his
feet he nodded thoughtfully.
“Yes,” he said, “you’re right.
His nerves do want attention.
Sometimes,” he went on, “these
things are caused by infected
teeth—or arn I thinking of
arthritis? Anyway, we may as
well have a look.”
He looked into njy left ear
with a gadget with a light, mur-
mured something about “Mallee
scrub,” then opened my mouth
and gazed ecstatically at the
row of tombstones.
“Perfect!” he said. “I never
saw a better”
“Listen,” I said. “They ought
to be —they’re ersatz dice and
they set me back twenty quid.
It’s the nag’s molars you’re in-
terested in.”
With a murmured apology he
opened the horse’s mouth wide
and looked in, “Now say ‘Ah’,”
he said.
As the horse breathed out the
specialist turned a pale pea-green
around the gills, spun around
and would have hit the carpet
with his face if it hadn’t been
for my quickly-outthrust boot.
As the sal volatile began to have
its effect he weakly asked were
the women and children saved.
I only thought afterwards I had
given the horse a rather liberal
lot of garlic with his oats ■ that
morning.
Back on his feet again, the
specialist took rapid stock of his
equine patient.
“You see,” he said, “how he
keeps swishing his tail? A sure
sign of ragged nerves. And that
involuntary ripple of muscles
every now and then points to
neurasthenia. I would say he is
liable to act queerly at times. It
could, if neglected, lead to
schizophrenia, I might have to
operate to loosen the pressure
on the umbilical cord of the en-
larged grummet. He also has
nervous dyspepsia and a pul-
monary abnormality. Does he
cough up anything?”
“Definitely no,” I said. “I’m
the one who does that.”
“The treatment will be long
and expensive,” he said. “Cer-
tainly expensive,” he added, and
here he had difficulty in suppres-
sing a sob. “Preliminary treat-
ment will involve massaging his
hocks twice a day, and an im-
portant thing is to get him to he
down with his hoofs.above his
head, perfectly relaxed. A quick
rub-down with whale-oil and
pineapple tops after his morning
shampoo will greatly benefit his
nerves. He is to have only white
meat —no, let me see, I think
that’s for blood-pressure. Just
the plainest of grasses. If you
notice that he starts to eat his
jockey let me know and I’ll have
him certified. Above all, give
him regular doses of this special
tonic” —here he took a bottle
of dark-black tack from a
drawer. “The best way to ad-
minister it is to dissolve a tea-
spoonful in a glass of cornflakes
and wait till he opens his mouth
to whinney and toss it in.”
He paused, absently took out
the cork, poured three fingers of
the stuff into a glass and tossed
it off.
“Ah! ” he said, smacking his
lips. “Absolutely the best nerve
tonic made.”
As I turned to go he said
“That will be fifty guineas,
please.”
If that medicine does to the
horse’s nerves what it did to the
specialist’s he’ll certainly be
a winner.
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Labor’s Lost Chance
Australia will shortly have to deal with
the problem of a horde of unskilled men
who have cashed in on the demand for
any kind of labor at rates that cannot
last. When the bubble bursts, who is
going to employ them?
Nobody can estimate the number of
unskilled men employed in industry to-
day, least of all the Trades Hall people,
who, if they were big enough, would
devise some educational scheme of night-
work and secondary education to improve
the skill of the members of their own
unions and so ensure their ability as
tradesmen. Men I know who tie up
parcels of newspapers in the afternoon
and one night per week, and work in an
engineering business from 7.30 a.m. till
noon, get more income than skilled men
who went through a period of indenture.
And no Parliamentarian has had the
courage to tell Australia frankly that
tradesmanship, the hallmark of quality,
plus an honest week’s work, is a minimum
essential.
Australia is drunk with money, and by
a manipulation of income-tax laws to
favor the so-called underdog, the solid
middle-class is being squeezed down and
kept down. It is Labor’s Utopia,' and
Labor’s opportunity. Had Labor pro-
duced a brain comparable with that of a
John Monash, and had him to direct their
affairs today, they would have had the
Burdekin scheme on the way; Callide
coal would have been banking up in the
southern States; the N.T. would have
had a railway to bring cattle south; big
housing schemes would have been under
way with the best architectural brains
behind them.
But what has Australia got? The
Prime Minister avers that Communist
control of production is a “political
philosophy.” Senator McKenna has de-
clared war on doctors through the “free”-
medicine scheme for which millions have
already been taken in taxes. There is to
be a Government shipping-line—we lost
enough millions in the last venture.
As P.M. we have J, B. Chifley, who
spends so little time abroad he could
be reasonably accused of not wanting to
learn. Seventeen days away from Aus-
tralia on his last visit could not have
taught him much, apart from hearsay.
While abroad he could have extended
his stay and met the greatest industrial
brains on the Continent and in the U.S.A.
and brought back some constructive
plans. He could have inspected trans-
port, bricquetting, gas from brown coal —
a thousand such projects—and engaged
experts to tell us how. —5 G.R. (Vic.).
Blarney
The new status of Eire and Eirishmen
within the Empire and its Dominions re-
sembles that of a back-seat driver who
has thumbed a ride but insists on con-
trolling the speed and direction of the
vehicle while repudiating all responsi-
bility for upkeep, accidents or insurance.
Australia today is ruled by a few sons
of Erin who belong by blood and tradi-
tion to a portion of the Emerald Isle
which has cut itself off from the British
Constitution. A glance through the Press
will show that the troubled industrial
and political scene is a sort of Donny-
brook in which the biggest blackthorns
are wielded by Celts with typical Irish
names, temperaments and tongues.
The Paddys have a genius for self-
expression. They are always at home on
stage or platform. They revel in debate
and are rarely at peace except when they
are fighting for real or imaginary rights
or against real or imaginary wrongs.
Their undoubted eloquence and com-
bativeness fit them for leadership in any
cause they may espouse, be it good or
bad. In a voluble minority they make
more noise than the tongue-tied majority,
and as an energetic political tail they
wag the apathetic political dog.
It is Gilbertian but true that our car
of progress is being driven from the back
seat by a small number of spiritual exiles
who call for more and more speed, who
care nothing for the established rules of
the road and who have only a vague idea
of where they are going or what they
will do when they get there. — Sullivan
(S.A.).
Community Farms
Part-time farming settlements for wage-
earners would solve many of the work-
ing-man’s social and economic problems.
A 500-acre property would provide homes
for at least 50 families and allow for a
large common for community purposes.
A I ‘plant-purchasing co-operative”
could buy modern machinery and hire
it out to members for a nominal fee per
day—lack of necessary plant is the crip-
pling factor with most small independent
farms. Equipment suitable for small
holdings includes the rotary hoe, power
hand-cultivator, hand-mill, beekeeping
appliances and many other items which
lend themselves to commufiity use. A
quick-freeze unit would be useful to pre-
serve indefinitely fresh fruit, vegetables,
meat and other surplus produce.
Settlements of this nature give people
a chance to live in a clean, neighborly,
environment, ideal for children and pro-
viding an ever-increasing measure of
security.
With pise or rammed earth attractive
and durable houses could be built quickly,
cheaply and with relatively unskilled
labor. Water supply and electricity would
be essential, of course.
If settlers were able to borrow capital
for their land and homes, repayable on
a rent basis, there would be few obstacles
to such a scheme.
Among the many books and articles on
this subject Flight From the City, by
Ralph Borsodi, is worth reading. The
author is a trained economist and a suc-
cessful part-time farmer. An example of
successful homestead settlement is at
Granger, lowa, U.S.A., where over 50
mining families were lifted from slum
conditions, debt and insecurity to a new
environment of comfortable, well-built
homes, greater independence and a new
and healthy interest in life. —C. L.
(N.S.W.).
That Cattle Scheme
Chifley’s cattle scheme is taking shape,
and it is admitted that it might cost
£50,000,000. Presumably the Socialist
Government is going to make its cattle-
station State-owned. Queensland has
already tried that, and was lucky to get
out as lightly as it did.
The ballyhoo attached to the channel
country is worth analysing. That coun-
try carries about two to three head to
the square mile; the best-improved
property runs six to the square mile. More
cattle have died of thirst, starvation and
drought in that country than have ever
been turned off it. If it gets two good
floods in succession it goes sour. Yet our
politicians, aim to turn off from
400,000 to 800,000 fat bullocks annually.
In western Queensland, as far as the
border right up to the Gulf and round to
Cloncurry, our great cattle-breeding areas
have, over the last 30 years, never had a
surplus of labor. Men are needed to
work cattle and they cannot be obtained.
Mt. Isa, with its inflated payroll and lead
bonus, absorbs everything in trousers. At
present, because of their inability to work
cattle, stations are speying heifers and
young breeders.
In the N.T., the great cattle-nursery of
the Commonwealth, most big pastoral
leases run out from 1960 to ’65. Do we
hear anything of extension of leases and
security of tenure? Without them the
big properties are not going to advance
much over their declining years—they
are going to die as gracefully as they can
and with as little loss as possible.
That leaves Westralia and the coastal
fringe in Queensland. Under existing
conditions of taxation, futile legislation
and disregard of the primary-producer
the eastern fringe won’t turn off enough
beef to bloat any butchers’ shops. Wes-
tralia I don’t know, but I presume it’s
the same there.—Moo Cow (Q.).
Timber for Homes
Homeless people in N. S. Wales will
wait a long time for houses unless the
Government concentrates on making
building materials, particularly timber,
available. ,
At four of Sydney’s largest mills orders
for hardwood and cypress flooring are
“off.” Hardwood scantlings in small
quantities and short lengths are available
when your turn comes. Unlimited quan-
tities of Canadian Oregon, hemlock and
Baltic pine from Europe can be supplied
immediately. Baltic flooring, inferior to
our cypress pine, is quoted at 113 s. per
100 ft. super.—more than double the price
of cypress.
Is Chifley fair dinkum in his statements
about the necessity for dollar cuts? Why
import Oregon, hemlock and Baltic in
such quantities? Any carpenter knows
that in the construction of houses the
only justification for using Oregon is its
lightness and easy-working qualities.
There are excellent Australian substi-
tutes —Queensland kauri, Maryborough
pine, hoop pine, cypress, King William
pine (Tas.), and kauri and rimu (N.Z.),
while untold quantities of excellent pine
remain to be brought from New Guinea.
All could be used for tjie purposes for
which Oregon is now favored.
If decorativeness is essential, then silky
oak, blackwood, Tasmanian oak, stringy-
bark, mountain ash and pencil and island
cedar would satisfy the most fastidious.
Kiln-dried, they are excellent, though
slightly more difficult to work than
Oregon.
It may be contended that there are in-
sufficient kiln-drying facilities available,
but that is not so. During the war, be-
cause the Defence Department insisted
on the use of timber carrying a limited
water content, drying kilns were installed
capable of handling all requirements.
They are not working to capacity today
because timber supplies are so limited and
the demand so great that users take any-
thing, green or seasoned.
There are millions of feet of building
timber, hardwood especially, rotting in
the weather at N.S.W. North and South
Coast mills, while enormous quantities
of pine are awaiting shipment from New
Zealand and Tasmania. Lack of trans-
port is given as the excuse for this con-
gestion, but that is bunkum.
The Chifley Government to date has
commandeered everything it wanted.
Why not take over a couple of vessels
for a month occasionally and lift the
New Zealand and Tasmanian timber
awaiting shipment?
Coal that would have enabled thou-
sands of feet of desperately-needed timber
to be hauled to the city has been squan-
dered on Easter excursions, the Railway
Department being more concerned with
profits than with the housing of the
homeless. If the railways were to cut out
all holiday and week-end excursion trains
and use the coal saved to transport the
fast-deteriorating timber from the North
and South Coasts the timber shortage
would be swiftly and considerably abated.
—Helldud (N.S.W.).
T.B. in Tasmania
The chief cause of the spread of t.b.
(B. 20/4/’49) is ignorance of hygiene.
The only sure cure is prevention by
applying the science of bacteriology. Un-
fortunately the necessary knowledge is
at present almost entirely confined to
doctors and nurses.
The salient facts are simple, and could
easily be imparted to young and old by
suitable “talkies.” Fifty years ago the
cleanly Danes conducted a very success-
ful campaign against the disease with the
aid of the old-time magic-lantern. The
germs were depicted as imps and devils.
The lecturer used simple language. The
audiences were entertained and enlight-
ened. The beneficial results were shown
in the vital statistics of the country.
If the germs were as big as bed-bugs
we would be ashamed of them. Being
invisible and insidious they are admitted
to the best circles and their devilish work
is tolerated almost as an “act of God.”
Free medicine for sufferers is a farce so
long as the germ-carriers are at liberty
to infect innocent victims in their own
homes or crowds of strangers.
A fraction of the sum set aside to pro-
vide free medicine for all and sundry, if
spent on intelligent propaganda and the
support of consumptives and their depen-
dants when necessary, would return large
dividends by controlling and eventually
eliminating one of the most deadly but
least-feared scourges of civilised man-
kind. —Jock (S.A.).
Saving Marriages
I can’t agree with “F.S.” (B. 30/3/’49)
or Victorian Premier Hollway on the
uselessness of matrimonial conciliation.
After considerable experience in that par-
ticular field, I’ve found that a great deal
of good can be done. Incidentally, I’m
a civil servant and can refute Hollway’s
query as to what a civil servant can do
to prevent marriages going on the rocks.
In most cases of matrimonial differ-
ences a little inquiry can find the cause
of the trouble and then something can
be done in most cases. The main causes
of trouble are forced marriages—46 per
cent, of first births occur within seven
months of marriage and 60 per cent,
within nine months of marriage.
The next most prevalent cause is inter-
ference by relatives, often unwitting and
well-intended. Another grave cause is
ignorance of sex and married life.
And, finally, in these post-war years
there is the housing shortage—a tragedy
that has done irreparable damage to many
marriages and the birthrate and thrust
upon thousands of young couples a
burden of worry and discomfort they
should never be expected to bear. —
MACROPUS (Vic.).
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 17
Across.
I— Literary twaddle upset the boy
with three feet. (8)
s—Waved to the mongrel that was
ahead. (6)
9 —Artificially contrived reality takes
Elinor Glyn’s sex-appeal with
acknowledgments of debt. (10)
ll Competitive runner in the neck-
wear of architectural filigrees. (9)
12—Plea made by a suspected person
that he was not at the scene of
the crime. (5)
14— He is always taking an interest to
make you more certain. (6) '
15— Hail. (3)
16— The batting disgrace of a boy. (4)
19— Rumpus act. (2-2)
20— Vehicle for Beethoven. (3)
21— Cloth upset the friend with some
friction. (6)
24 Multigraph only one in the
middle. (5)
25 The successful pub-owner, per-
haps, is a haggler. (9)
(CRYPTIC TYPE.)
C Solution in next issue.)
27 Kind of declamatory song about
the citizen consumed four inside.
(10)
28 — Support swallowed the represen-
tative. (6)
29 — Sad song to signify approval
among 3. (8)
Down.
1— Rely on Mr. Keaton to be a
fighter of octopus principles in
business. (5, 6)
2 It is subterranean in Nansen’s
ship with a French Hamlet. (12)
3 French art is crushed between
the jaws and avoided. (8)
4 A Spanish hero, I see, is sour. (6)
6 They hang over our tongues
from our palates. (6)
7 Fairy in the German XI. (3)
8— Girl, I have a letter. (7)
10—Logical he-men (anagram). (12)
13 —I take no pianissimo with the
alternative melody that is out of
time? (11)
17 —Kind of fine white linen. (7)
18 —Supposed place returned thanks
and I have to finish off. (8)
22 Sly canopy before tea. (6)
23 — Such an inspiration from a bather.
(6)
26 —Hint for a billiardist. (3)
Solution to last week’s Crossword.


Steel industry apprentices
built this boring mill to help keep
Australia's railways rolling.
m
a
ilipin
A Steel Industry
Apprenticeship
Means
★ Self-contained apprentice
shops for some trades, with
your own messrooms, change-
rooms, lockers and showers.
★ Refund of fees on successful
completion of your Technical
College trade course.
★ Award wages, plus good-
conduct bonuses.
* Living allowances if you
have to board away from
home.
J •
★ Eight hours a fortnight time-
off to attend lectures on full
pay.
HfiP
Learning a Trade
the Steel Industry Way
IKE to share the pride of these apprentices? Then learn a trade
with the steel industry. In the course of their training they have
built six of these boring mills at the Newcastle works of the
Commonwealth Steel Co., Ltd. The mills play a vital role in the
production of steel wheels and tyres for Australia’s railways.
What these apprentices have achieved demonstrates the practical,
interesting and creative approach to apprenticeship training under
the steel industry’s Staff Training Scheme—a scheme which provides
you with expert instruction on the most modern equipment. You do
the job, learning by practical experience.
You, too, can take advantage of the industry’s apprenticeship
training experience, special facilities and skilled instructors to gain
for yourself an assured, well-paid future in an expanding industry.
If you’re aged 15-18, there’s a trade for you
Blacksmith
Boilermaker *
Bricklayer
Carpenter
Coppersmith
Electrical Fitter *
Electrical Mechanic *
Fitter and Machiner *
Fitter and Turner *
French Polisher
Motor Mechanic
Moulder
Painter
Patternmaker *
Plumber
Sheet Metal Worker
Ship’s Joiner
Shipwright
Tinsmith *
Turner *
Intermediate Certificate required: preference given to Intermediate Certificate-holders for other trades.
Train for YOUR future with the
AUSTRALIAN STEEL INDUSTRY
Apply NOW to the following:
ThePloleiiHill Proprietary Co. Ltd.—Head Office: 422 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Newcastle Steel Works: Newcastle
Australian Iron & Steel Ltd.: P.O.
P.O. Box 196.
Wollongong, N.S.W.
Commonwealth Steel Co. Ltd.: Waratah, N. s.w.
Rylands Bros. (Australia) Pty. Ltd.: Newcastle P.O. Box 245.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.: Box 21, Whyalla, S.A.
