

GREAT WESTERN
A PRODUCT OF THE
s e
BQB
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
The Bulletin
‘The Bulletin,” Vol. 70—No. 3598
Wednesday, January 26, 1949
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
FRAMLINGHAM'S NOBLE RUINS BESPEAK ITS ANCIENT PAST
VISITORS to England may think of Suffolk, which lies in what
once was the Saxon Kingdom of East Anglia, as a faraway
county outside the normal tourist stream, a county of quiet places,
but it would be hard to find a more appealing place than Framling-
ham. It is a quiet old market town which has never lost touch with
a history that goes, back for over a thousand years.
. ■ . .
The medieval walls of its castle rise from a mound which the
Saxons fortified twelve centuries ago, and it is today one of the
noblest, ruins in England. The walls are over forty feet high, and
are, in places, eight feet thick ; their foundations extend thirty feet
below ground. Thirteen towers rise above the battlemented walls,
and four of them are of immense strength, being built of solid
masonry. The walls, which are surrounded by a moat, in places
sixty-eight feet deep, enclose an area of more than an acre in
which stands a group of buildings, dating chiefly from the seven-
teenth century, which were built in the days of Charles Stuart as
poorhouses Between the river and outer moats is a bowling green
? n Y hl ° h * e ga T 2“ Played lonB 1§ P V
bowl ° on Plymouth Hoe. . f .
Framlmgham Castle was one of the chief possessions of the
Earls and Dukes of Norfolk. History records that King John,
Henry 111 and Edward I stayed here, and here it was that Queen
Mary found refuge during the attempt to place Lady Jane Grey on
the throne, Framlingham is also associated with Henry Howard,
famed in literature as the poet, Earl of Surrey, who was imprisoned
in the Tower of London on a charge of treason by Henry VIII and
later beheaded, at the age of thirty, on Tower Hill.


Learn
Freelance
Journalism
at HOMF
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 149 AGE
The Red Page
FURPHY AGAIN.
It is with the greatest delight that the
Red Page finds that Joseph Furphy’s
The Buln-I'uln and the Brolga (Angus
and Robertson) may be read with almost
uninterrupted joy and almost unqualified
approval.
Furphy —01 “Tom Collins” —was, after
all, a Bulleti!n proteg£, one of A. G.
Stephens’s discoveries. And, conse-
quently, it has been a little saddening to
feel obliged to suggest, amidst a chorus
of praise for Furphy, that Such Is Life,
enchanting though it is in its best pas-
sages, is all but unreadable for its wordi-
ness and discursiveness, and that the poli-
tics in the also enchanting Rigby’s
Romance, if the book is to be regarded
as a novel, are tedious in themselves and
a serious fault in construction.
It is, of course, a fact that 10,000
buyers read the “unreadable” Such Is
Life in the first printing of Angus and
Robertson’s edition a year or two ago,
and a new edition is still selling and still,
presumably, being read. But that is what
happens when an author becames a
classic. His faults come to be valued for
their own sake, as contributing part of
the essential “flavor” of the man. And
so they do. Wordsworth is full of faults,
and they are an essential part of his
charm ; more, they are vital to the under-
standing of his personality. But to ac-
cept a writer’s faults in this way is to go
a little beyond the confines proper to
literary criticism ; it is to accept all writ-
ings as a kind of autobiography, revela-
tions of their author’s personality—an
outlook from which a work that was
wholly faulty might be just as interesting
as, or even more interesting than, one
which was wholly meritorious.
From the critical viewpoint, because
certain fundamental principles must be
maintained —in a novel, the accurate de-
lineation of character and its unfaltering
dramatisation in action —a work of art
must be examined as a work of art; and
faults in a work of art are faults. If
Furphy’s polysyllabic meditations in Such
Is Life and his political sermon in Rigby’s
Romance are faults similar to some of
the interposed notes on whaling in Moby
Dick —digressions which one would not
dream of removing because they are in-
teresting in themselves, because they con-
tain some of the essential flavor of Mel-
ville, and because even his waywardness
of technique is fascinating—they are still
faults of that kind.
And if this review is falling into a pro-
longed digression it shows the menace of
Furphy’s method in all its deadliness.
To return to The Buln-Buln and the
Brolga. Like Rigby’s Romance, it is a
slab cut out of Such Is Life; by which
act of mercy not'only is Such Is Life,
reduced in monstrosity but Furphy’s
bubbling good humor, isolated from the
parent cloud and clarified by its isola-
tion, is made manifest, readable and cap-
tivating. It is now published for the first
time; and it is likely to be kept in print
or republished as long as there is a civi-
lisation in Australia: for it contains,
along with its humor, something of the
very essence of this country: it immorta-
lises, with pride and joy in his achieve-
ments, a great liar.
The plot is of the simplest. It is merely
that Tom Collins, Furphy’s familiar
narrator, waits at Echuca to meet an old
schoolfellow, and, while waiting, recalls
his schooldays and meets another old ac-
quaintance, Barefooted Bob; then the
old schoolfellow arrives and strikes up
a friendship with Bob, while his wife
strikes up an enmity with Tom CoIMns —
for Bob believes in his lies, but Tom,
having known him of old, is more than
sceptical. The schoolfellow and princi-
pal liar is one Fred Falkland-Pritchard,
who is the “buln-buln” of the title, that
being the aboriginal name for lyrebird ;
Bob, the long-legged bushman, is the
“brolga,” and he, too, though in a less
flamboyant style than Fred, is a liar of
distinction.
The movement of the story comes
partly from the amusing development of
friendship and hostility among the four
principals when Fred and Bob, with Tom
Collins and Mrs. Falkland-Pritchard for
audience, spend a day and a night in
swapping lies, and partly from the de-
velopment of one great lie dramatised
from an incident in Fred’s youth when
(their prank obviously borrowed fron)
Shakspeare’s “Henry the Fourth”) Tom
and another friend had pretended to be
bushrangers and had bailed-up Fred in
his then capacity of mailman. A very
inglorious figure in the actual incident,
Fred is, of course, the hero when he re-
lates to Bob his revised version. The
episode is too long to quote, but a sample
of one of the minor lies in it will indi-
cate that, at his best, Fred can rival
Munchausen;
In spite of this excursion into the
majesty of the Lie Outrageous, it is true,
as Mr. R. G. Howarth says in his fore-
word, that Fred’s general style of lying
is not Munchausen’s. Fred works “on
the principle of fanciful construction on
a small, basis of fact,” whereas Bare-
footed Bob merely “extends the facts,”
and Munchausen, of course, had a
supreme contempt for fact and proba-
bility. Admirable as ah connoisseurs of
lying will find Mr. Howarth’s analysis
on these points, one cannot quite agree
with him that Fred as a liar is “most
convincing.” In the bushranging lie, and
for the purposes of Furphy’s story, yes ;
but not in the second great lie he inflicts
on Barefooted Bob —the utterly fantastic
story of his fight at sea with a former
schoolfellow named Wesley Tregurtha
who has turned pirate.
As a daydream of Fred’s this second
lie is remotely credible; but one cannot
believe that even Barefooted Bob, hypno-
tised by Fred’s magnetic volubility,
would accept it as truth ; and for the
present reader, in any event, it has not
the seductive magic of the bushranging
lie. It is neither plausible like Bob’s
lies nor marvellously outrageous like the
lies of Munchausen, but weak and thin;
and were not the surrounding circum-
stances so rich with comedy it might
sound merely silly.
At this point, too, with infinite grief,
one must suggest that there is a fault in
the construction of The Buln-Buln and
the Brolga: for while the bushranging
episode, in the actuality and in the sub-
sequent lie, is brought beautifully to
finality, the story of Wesley Tregurtha
and the pirate fantasy linked with it are
left incomplete. The story, surely, requires
an appearance of Tregurtha in the flesh
at the end so that one may know what
has really happened to the gloriously
pugnacious lout who tormented Fred at
school and so that the lie about Fred’s
subsequent triumph over him in the
piracy episode may be exposed as com-
pletely and as mercilessly as the bush-
ranging lie is exposed by the presence
of Tom Collins.
But those are the only points on which
the book is open to criticism. The occa-
sional pedantries, frequently jarring in
Such Is Life, are apologised for so amus-
ingly in this book that they in-
stead of detracting from its appeal, and
the digressions are shorter and, far more
clearly than in Such Is Life, serve a defi-
nite artistic purpose: not destroying the
continuity of the narrative but, nearly
always for just the right length of time,
prolonging the suspense before the point
of a joke or the climax of an action.
The wealth of laughter, of wisdom and
of anecdotes with the quality of Aus-
tralian folk-lore packed into the slight
structure of the central story is astound-
ing. It is worth specially noting—Furphy
not having been celebrated in this re-
spect before —that the boys at school and
in adolescence are as wonderfully and
ruthlessly and comically alive as Steele
Rudd’s Joe or the urchins of Saturdee
and the hobbledehoys of Halfway to Any-
where.
Furphy has been too much praised
merely for his Socialism. His politics
in The Buln-Buln and the Brolga are
unaltered, but far more important from
the literary viewpoint are the deep ar-
tistic honesty and the profound irony
revealed in the yarns of Barefooted
Bob: for if an unscrupulous employer
behaves ruthlessly to Bob, he in his
turn is ruthless to the aborigines, and
they in their turn behave ruthlessly both
to the whites and to their fellow-abo-
rigines. However much Furphy as
a Socialist may have wanted to improve
mankind there is no doubt that as an
artist he took a great and proper delight
in men in their unimproved humanity.
As in Such Is Life the dialogue and
characterisation throughout The Buln-
Buln and the Brolga are glowing with life
and humor: Fred, as a psychological
freak, is very good; Barefooted Bob,
especially when he swears in front of
Fred’s wife, is a masterpiece.
The very existence of this book and
of Rigby’s Romance is, of course, a criti-
cism of Such Is Life. You could not pos-
sibly cut off such “juicy quarters of the
mammoth” were the mammoth properly
constructed. The truth is—to revert just
once more to this harrowing theme —that
the central story of the big novel is so
vague, weak and disjointed that it fails
to create dramatic movement, and the
book becomes a loose collection of epi-
sodes : joined together by some very
sticky glue. Before it was first published
it might have been possible—and highly
advantageous— to separate it into what it
really was: a set of excellent long short-
stories. To do such a deed now would,
of course, be monstrous ; but one may at
least be grateful, both for the sake of
Such Is Life and The Buln-Buln and the
Brolga, that this story was lopped olf and
rewritten, to stand alone and shine. One
is grateful, too, to Mr. Howarth and
Angus and Robertson for publishing it.
“On leaving the Post Office [Fred tells
Bob] I gave Collins and Thompson the slip,
went straight back to the place where the
chase had ended and picked up the tracks
of the fellows’ horses”
“Wouldn’t it be cornin’ on night by
that time?” suggested Bob.
“And devilish dark, too,” assented Fred.
“But I had trained my mare to run a scent
like a bloodhound”
"Phoenix Wings."
In the Wordsworthian fashion, a foot-
note stating the date of the composition
is added to each of the poems in Harold
Stewart’s Phoenix Wings (Angus and
Robertson); which makes it clear that
his best poem, “Lament in Autumn,”
dated 1946, is the most recent in the col-
lection.
In “Lament for Autumn,” as in the
earlier poems, there are echoes from the
general stock of English poetry. One,
Wu Tao-tzu, “the greatest of Chinese
artists,” soliloquises:
And however remote from the usual
territory of English poetry this may be,
the mood and language are familiar. One
has the impression that one has read
something very much like it before, per-
haps in Milton :
Thus with the year
Seasons return; but not to me returns
Day, or the sweet approach of even or morn,
Or sight of vernal bloom, or summer’s rose,
Or flocks, or herds, or human face, divine;
But cloud instead and ever-during dark
Surrounds me, from the cheerful ways of men
Cut off, and, for the book of knowledge fair,
Presented with a universal blank.
But, far more decisively than in any
of his earlier poems, Harold Stewart
escapes in “Lament in Autumn” from the
ancestral voices to speak powerfully and
movingly as a poet in his own right:
Though with much twisting it I should prepare
A long, long rope out of my whitening hair,
Oh still it would not fathom my despair!
The lines indeed are rich with original
phrases, sensitive and finely expressed:
O weary leaf in exile, are you now
As homesick, as my heart is, for the bough?—
and the poem as a whole is beautifully
compact, a perfect embodiment of both
the thoughts and the music appropriate
to its mood of autumnal lamentation.
There are four other poems with a
Chinese setting grouped with the
“Lament,” all recent work and all attrac-
tive, The question of whether or not
Harold Stewart is capable of a com-
pletely original poetic statement is for
his future work to determine, for “Three
Three Tasters,” for instance, is (in part)
an attempt to reproduce in verse a typical
Chinese painting: : —
The mountain-tops, afforesting whose spurs
The scarce and scattered dots of conifers
Are blots of pine-soot ink on blank paper—
and a copy of Chinese aVt is not quite
the same thing as an original observation
of nature or humanity—though, as a
curiosity, and fbr its charm, and for the
degree of originality shown in the writer’s
response to works of art made by others,
there might always be a place for it.
The early poems are altogether too
derivative. This is Harold Stewart on
the phoenix:
Your wings of radiance, your phoenix wings
Proclaim the blazing sanctity of fire
And wield exultant vigor in their span
Now flaunt with pride ypur meteoric tail
Which is a single fluent’ plume of fire,
Fashioned from out a comet’s fleeting train,
To writhe in rhythms lithe and serpentine,
And glide its orange threads of shredded flame
Like polyphonic rockets’ fugue of fire! ....
Archaic pheasant, toss your sovereign head
With dignity and elegant disdain;
Glaring the startled garnets of your eyes,
Which are as sanguine as the planet Mars,
And sharper than the glance of quartered quartz.
And this is from Alexander Pope’s
“Windsor Forest”:
See! from the brake the whirring pheasant
springs,
And mounts exulting on triumphant wings:
Short is his joy; he feels the fiery wound,
Flutters in blood, and panting beats the ground.
Ah! what avail his glossy, varying dyes,
His purple crest and scarlet-circled eyes.
The vivid green his shining plumes unfold,
His painted wings, and breast that flames with
gold?
“The Ascension of Feng,” the long
poem from which the title of Phoenix
Wings is taken, may be read as philo-
sophical and symbolic verse, but it is too
bizarre to have much force as such, and
reads most impressively simply as a fes-
tival of poetic technique.
From this aspect it has strange and
disconcerting blemishes —mixed meta-
phors ; overdone alliteration ; puns such
as “quartered quartz,” “brandished
brand” and even “going gong” which
are likely to arouse a smile at the wrong
moment; and many lines which do not
scan correctly and which, even if they
are regarded as deliberate excursions into
sprung jar among the orthodox
iambics. In spite of these lapses, the
poem as a whole is beautifully written,
with opulent coloring, a fine architectural
style of description and many felicities
of alliteration, internal rhyme and ono-
matopoeia :
The airy aviary of afternoon
Is vast and vertical. Its light-rings lift
High in exquisite symmetry to build
A cylinder of innumerable strings,
Whose luminous fragility of frame
Is limited by towering filaments :
The fine gilt wires of vibrant heat
And vivid rods of incandescent air ‘
raise
A brilliant prison for the whirring birds,
Who whistle and twitter intermittently.
And flutter their glinting wings’ thin cascade
Against the ambient ardor of its bars.
Whether or not the phoenix has directly
borrowed any plumes from Pope’s
pheasant, the strictly mechanical metre
and the continual use of such period ad-
jectives as “argent,” “elegant,” “admir-
ing,” “auspicious,” “audacious,” “gilded,”
“errant,” “fervent,” “august,” “lucid,”
“aerial” and “setherial” make it clear
that Harold Stewart has imitated the
style of the pastoral poetry of the 17th
and 18th centuries. Had his attempt
been wholly successful, as it is partly—
and that is no mean achievement —it
would hardly be possible to find in it
other values than Adolphus Ward found
in Pope’s pastorals:
Everything he wrote in verse was in-
variably, to use a homely but expressive
phrase, excellent as far as it went. The
“Pastorals,” the “Messiah,” “Windsor
Forest” continue to give the pleasure which
finished copies of verse can never fail to
afford to an educated ear In all these
efforts he had shown mastery of form, but
no original power marking out any species
of composition as signally his own.
“The Ascension of Feng” is polished
until it glitters, but —because it pro-
vides no evidence that Harold Stewart
himself really feels deeply for his
phoenix except as an excuse for
exotic color —the polish is laid, as it were,
on nothing: it is a “finished copy” of
poetry. Also, of course, it was a valuable
exercise in craftsmanship, from which the
more animated rhythms, more direct
language and deeper emotional sincerity
of the later poems were a logical and
necessary development.
The year and I are dying out together:
The cold, the damp, descend on all our weather.
The long warm afternoons that would extend
So late into the west there seemed no end
To those the abundant summer had in store,
Have long outworn the golden tone they wore —
Their ample warmth returns in me no more.
Sydney Fantasy.
Gilbert Mant’s Gone Tomorrow
(Angus and Robertson) is a fantasy set
in Sydney, in which a colorless young
man, Martin Ross, who is employed as a
bank-clerk and who has since childhood
been dominated by a maiden aunt of
stern virtue, learns from a medical man
that be has only a few months to live.
Suddenly blossoming from colorlessness
into buoyant individuality—without the
faintest previous hint of this aspect of his
character —young Ross becomes an out-
and-out rebel kicking his aunt’s dog,
cheeking the bank-manager and, finally,
in excess of rebellious spirit, chucking an
egg at a spruiking politician.
Martin, in fact, has determined to get
the most out of his few months, and in
indicating his desire for a brief life of sin
and vanity, and in introducing him to a
red-headed girl from next-door who
appears to have similar adventurous lean-
ings, Mant promises to produce some-
thing approaching Linklater’s best book,
Juan in America : a gay fantasy of an in-
consequential figure wandering over a
familiar but unmoral earth ; with the ad-
vantage, for Australian readers, that the
earth is urban Australia.
But Gone Tomorrow is disappointing:
there is nothing of Linklater’s wit and
gaiety in it; nothing, even, of Thorne
Smith’s more stereotyped fantasy. After
promising all manner of wicked adven-
tures, Mant turns his hero into a com-
pletely moral young man, who marries the
red-head in the concluding chapter or, at
any rate, proposes—and who, despite
extraordinary adventures with Sydney's
underworld, with an eccentric millionaire
who buys giraffes as pets for his small
boy, and in political campaigning, con-
ducts himself in these bizarre circum-
stances far too tamely.
The most interesting parts of the book
—those which deal with journalism,
politics and a variety of underworld char-
acters (two of whom are rather thinly
disguised) —are of topical rather than
literary value.
The English Heritage: Rex Welldon
Finn (Macdonald). Deals in an easy but
knowledgeable way with Celts, Romans,
Anglo-Saxons, Norsemen, the Tudors, the
Puritans and anyone else of the kind who
made a mark on the country in the form
of a castle, a wall, a place-name or a
tradition. Good background-stuff for
tourists.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
X
/
B
if
> VvWt-n
v:
Xl'
;v
K
«
n
Av>
/
W
, . t
mb
K> ,<» ■
■
' -
ll -
■
Ss
m/r
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
%
6
Ox
£
You’ll find a sympathetic ear for your sports problems and
needs, as the men who are there to serve you are all sporting
enthusiasts themselves! You’ll also find a most comprehensive
range of sporting goods, no matter what particular sport you
follow, as our Sports Dept, is one of the finest in Australia.
GOLFING REQUISITES
“Slazengers”
Bobby Locke Irons, 64/9
Greensite Irons, 60/3
Carnoustie Irons, 54/-
Hoylake Irons, 52/9
Woods, 73/3
Woods, 67/3
Woods, 67/3
Woods. 59/9
“Spalding"
“Top Flite” Irons, 64/9 Woods, 73/3
“Carnegie Clarke"
Stainless Steel Irons .... 60/3
Inlaid Woods 67/3
“East Bros.”
“Klcersite” Irons 60/3
Ladies’, Cents’, Left Hand and Right Hand
GOLF BAGS
Canvas with three supports 37/6
Canvas with four supports . . 42/—, 46/3
Leather, sm. Collapsible with two large
pockets . 72/8
Collapsible with two large pockets 55/9
Leather with four supports (Black or Tan).
Prices 60/9, 66/9
Leather with three supports and two large
pockets * 86/9
Leather, sin. Collapsible with two large
pockets 72/8
Leather, 6in. Collapsible with two large
pockets 79/3
Leather, 6in. Collapsible with two large
pockets and hood 110/-
Head Covers . . 3/3, 3/6, 4/2
Local Balls .. . 2/9, 3/1, 3/6, 3/10, 4/3
English “Silver Kings” 5/3
Practice Sets 6/9
Rubber Coif Grips 7d.
t
‘am
:\r«v
A ..
s>
Ut,
&
/
\
TENNIS GEAR
First grade Tennis Racquets, strung to
high tension with Bentleys’ championship
gut. Slazenger’s “Challenge,” Alexander
“Cressy,” Spalding’s “Top Flite,” Dunlop
“Maxply,” Oliver “Blue Bird,” Medley’s
“Finalist,” Chesterfield “Play Bat.”
All at . 93/6 each
Other Grade Racquets . . . 84/6, 81/-
75/6 68/3 64/6 59/- 49/9
First Grade Tennis Balls .... 28/- doz.
Racquet Covers 5/-, 6/3 each
Racquet Presses . . 3/11, 5/3, 7/7 each
Tennis Nets, first grade £6/4/8
Second grade £5/9/
Eyc Shades . . 2/-, 3/3, 3/11, 4/3 each
Oliver “Junior” Tennis Racquets 39/6
Oliver “Minor” Tennis Racquets 32/6
Boz. ..
lOoz.
Boys’
BOXI
BOYS’ CRICKET PADS, 29/2, 32/3 pair
BOYS’ CRICKET BATS. Size 4.. 21/6
ENGLISH COMPO CRICKET BALLS, 5/-
BICYCLES
Men’s “Royal Enfield’’ Cycle, English
made, fitted with coaster hub £lB/12/
Women’s “Royal Enfield’’ Cycle, English
made, fitted with coaster hub £l9/7/-
“Silver Flyer’’ Cycle, with Reynolds 521
tubing, double sided hub, fixed and free
wheel, two side pull brakes . . £23/6/4
Women’s “Challenger’* Cycle with
coaster hub £l6/8/9
Celesta Generator Lighting Sets 49/6
Miller Generator Lighting Sets . . 50/-
Size 5
Size 6
24/-
27/3
Men’s
£l5/1/5
Battery Lamps, complete 7/11
w
Sports Dept,—Lower Ground Floor, Pitt Street
•Phone: M 2401, Day and Night Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney
'• ' I
mm
tm
asse:sa
ill
- y
U
N
K


A JOB IN TOWN
H. H. MELVILLE
yOUNG WILF came up the hedge-
line, a gusty southerly rain driving
into his face. He was walking
“tough.” Arms hanging, he
shambled along in the fancied ape style,
but the effect was marred by an unruly
sou’-wester and an oilskin that whipped
and crackled round his shoulders.
Squelching clodhoppers, too, were not
the pumps on which he’d pad home from
the pictures, really “tough”—a masterful
figure then, with his hair well greased.
Though the routine of Loveditch’s
Bakery, where he worked, might seem
-to make little call on such display, Wilf
never had cause to walk tougher than
when he found himself —as now —a dis-
gusted party to another of Mame Love-
ditch’s wiles.
A few minutes earlier he had glanced
up from the mat of sodden rotted straw
he was forking and had been surprised
to see her beckoning him up the horse-
paddock.
Broad-beamed, a bell of a woman with
gum-boot clappers, she had stood for a
moment in the shelter of Tenmans’ pines
and held her tea-basket high. Another
moment and she had disappeared into the
macrocarpa boundary-hedge,
HE swaggered along, galled by her pre-
sumption. Her basket, he fancied,
was flaunted at morning-tea time as an
appeal to some infantile craving for sus-
tenance, an idea thrown up defensively
against her cloying solicitude.
Not that her behavior ever really
puzzled him. He could account for every
move she made. Mame Loveditch was
a shrewdie, he reckoned —crafty shrewd,
not tough shrewd. And by her under-
hand fussing and coddling his very manli-
ness was imperilled. So Wilf walked
“tough.”
She’d been at her tricks that morning
with her wheedled “You don’t think it’s
too wet to . cart me over some more of
that manure from the old stack stand?”
“Don’t you worry none about me. Miss
Loveditch,” he’d told her, drawling his
unconcern, though in the distortion of
rain streaming down the shop window
passers-by were set jazzing and squirm-
ing.
The artfulness of this as a pretext for
bringing out his morning tea was apparent
when he spotted her there under the
trees; for behind her the roofs of
mourners’ cars, lined up for the funeral
of Foster Tenman, gleamed like beetles
along the yellow-flowering gorse of the
roadside. And Mame Loveditch, shelter-
ing in the hedge, was spying through to
Tenmans’ place.
Enlightened, Wilf nodded cynically.
Only a very crafty woman would have
thought of such an arrangement for
gratifying her morbid curiosity. Shrewd.
But, he reassured he was no mug,
either. He’d a lot more under his hat
than the men she teased as she tripped
about the shop, fluffy-haired . and
giggling; and as for the township gossips
she pumped across, the counter, he could
only watch them from the bakehouse
with his eyes half-closed. Yet these
were the people who said she deserved
credit for saving the business after the
old man died. That was mad talk. So
long as there was little Stevie to do the
baking and himself to look after the
delivery and do the rough outside work,
the place ran itself. And these people
said she was kind.
•She had them bluffed there, too. Stevie’s
silly idea that she was “a wee bit nosey,
but a grand-hearted wumman just the
same,” couldn’t be counted, because
Stevie was a foreign immigrant who
hadn’t got things straight yet.
Perhaps those people who spoke of
Mame Loveditch’s kindness wouldn’t
mind wearing the sort of pyjamas she
was always giving him. What sort of
kindness was it to expect him to wear
those lurid things when he went home
for the week-ends —or, for that matter.,
to wear any sort of pyjamas at home?
Since he was obliged to pack them he
had to be shrewd ; he hid them in Riley’s
stack on the way home and fished them
out again on Sunday night.
He had to match wits with her, too, in
disposing of those cakes she sent
him home with. These, he’d
found, could be used to barter
with schoolchildren travelling
home by train. And if they
tasted sweeter as loot from the
bakehouse, who was he to argue
his virtue? His reward for
delivering them to his step-
mother had always been the cry of
insult: “ and just because a woman
slaves to bring up a big family it doesn’t
mean she’s got no pride and goes about
looking for this sort of charity ”So
her protest would go, while in the back-
ground her ragged brood wolfed the
cakes.
That was Mame Loveditch’s kindness.
That and her “Wilfie” and calling him
“dear” in front of the customers. Shame-
ful talk like that had hurried him into
long -trousers. Bad enough having her
poke him in the ribs and recall with sad
wonderment tlje great stews she’d cooked
him. Him, a shrewdie, being treated like
a kid!
\l/ILF, in moments of greatest provo-
VV cation, yearned for a growth of
whiskers. He’d let them grow fiercely
black, and that would be an end to Mame
Loveditch’s nonsense. Solicited from a
distance, they were never pictured as an
incongruity set against scant sandy hair
and brows nor as bedecking a face of
such a perky ferrety cast as his own.
He had seen traces of a beard in the
looking-glass at home. But the glass was
speckled and the light bad, and dis-
illusionment always awaited him in
Mame Loveditch’s shining mirrors.
Meanwhile, the immaturity of downi-
ness and straggling sidelevers did not de-
tract one jot from the cockiness with
which he swaggered up the paddock.
A surge of warmth met him at the
trees. Abreast of Tenmans’ fowl-houses,
hearing the cries of a bird being set upon
with the merciless zest of its kind, he
kicked idly at the green gaping weather-
boards. That instant he touched off a
fluttering panic, and a chorus of outraged
squawking went raging among the sheds.
The racket left him ashamed, for not until
then had he thought in a personal way
of Foster Tenman lying dead. Before
he had passed there had been no sound
of life from Tenmans’ side. The house
had lain hushed.
His walk grew brisker.
Then, from incredibly close, came
Mame Loveditch’s giggle.
Indignation churned within him at this
reminder that she was lodged in the
hedge, peeping through.
A MAN’S voice was murmuring in
reply. The voice, plaintive and droop-
ing, sounded like Hughie the grader-man,
and the scandalous possibility of finding
Mame Loveditch secluded with a com-
panion of Hughie’s reputation momen-
tarily delighted Wilf. But on closer
hearing the voice was too old, and he
thought of Uncle Robb Tenman, a
snuffling old curmudgeon who spent most
of his time patrolling his flowers and
shrubs against predatory nieces. Hardly
likely though that Robb, even in his most
contrary mood, would be pottering about
round the byre while inside the house his
nephew’s funeral service was being con-
ducted.
“....so, you see, it’s sometimes as
much as a woman can attend to.”
Hearing Mame Loveditch’s voice
directly to his left, he pulled aside a
screening pine branch and stood hesitant
at the entrance to her recess in the macro-
carpa. The man sheltering with her was
a stranger. He wore a leather coat and
was cramped into a bike-riding attitude
—riding without the comfort of a saddle,
too, if the pained and simpering look of
his face was fair comment. Steam was
rising from a cup of tea he held under
his long thin nose. He surveyed Wilf
rather blearily.
“Here’s Wilf now, Mr, Card,” Mame
Loveditch said.
Her blue basket hung beside her.
Wilf let the overhanging branch fall
back, shutting from view dreary rain-
soaked paddocks and smudges of hill
houses that seemed mistily afloat on spring
foliage billowing along the creek.
MR, CARD’S head was long and
shaped like an egg. His skin was
moist and of a creamy translucence, and
from the outer corner of each eye
wrinkles swirled away decoratively. His
hat lay at his feet. Long strands of grey
hair were gummed across his head.
“He’s just been digging me out some
rotted straw for my roses,” Mame Love-
ditch explained. “My rose-beds last year
were the envy of the place, and I put
it all down to the stuff we got from the
old stack comer.”
As she spoke she swayed about in
front of the man, curving her hands
sensuously. She wore a waxy raincoat
with the hood thrown back.
Mr. Card gave Wilf a nod. “You’re
the lad we saw using his spade so in-
dustriously?”
Wilf returned the nod. “Forking,” he
said.
Mame Loveditch had taken a thermos-
flask from her basket and poured out a
cup of tea, which she handed to Wilf.
“I don’t mind drinking out of the cap,”
she said, amused by the novelty of it.
Wilf took her at her word. Mr. Card
waved his cup and mumbled apologeti-
cally. She leaned back into the branches
with what elegance she could manage
and placed a basket of cakes in her lap.
“You’ll just help yourself now, Mr.
Card?”
Wilf reached for a cake and began
covertly to size up Mr. Card. He won-:
dered what the man was doing there.
“And now,” Mame Loveditch began,
settling to grapple with a profundity out-
standing. “Wilf, you’ll bear me out in
this. Didn’t we have a calendar from
Card’s Produce Mart hanging above the
show-case last year?”
Wilf gulped down his cake.
“Umm”
“You must remember,” she urged.
“The picture of the dog and the sweet
little girl?”
Wilf considered these clues as he
swished water off his sou’-wester. “Not
the one with the thermometer on it?”
She puckered her lips, moved by sus-
pense to a naive and happy animation.
"... .and the apple-trees in blossom?”
“Really, you know,” Mr. Card was
protesting. “I wasn’t doubting your word
for a moment.”
“Of course not, Mr. Card.”
Wilf nodded cynically. # ‘You had it
stuck up with that badge thing.”
SHE gave a little squeak of dejight.
“That’s it! And what do you think —
it was from Mr. Card, .Card’s Produce
Mart. I remember the name as well as
anything.”
“All I said in the first place was to
remark on the coincidence,” declared Mr.
Card.
She giggled. “And to think you’re here
having morning-tea with us in the hedge.”
“The woman in the office picks the
calendars,” Mr. Card said, still with his
watery smile. “I’m not fond of children
and X hate dogs.”
Wilf dipped into the basket. He was a
split-second ahead of Mr. Card, who
withdrew in some embarrassment. The
lapse of manners thus imputed to the
man pleased Wilf highly. What was this
Card doing there, anyway? He’d have a
shrewd stab at finding out:
“You’re having trouble with your car,
Mr. Card?”
“Trouble with my car?” the stranger
echoed. He considered this possibility as
he sipped his tea. “No, I don’t think so.
I shouldn’t have. It’s just new.”
“It’s a lovely car,” said Mame Love-
ditch. “All those shiny bars across the
front.”
“They call that chromium,” Mr. Card
volunteered.
Very, very shrewd, Wilf mused, eyeing
Mr. Card, or else a proper softie.
Marne Loveditch smiled into the man’s
face and guided his unsteady hand with!
her own as he fumbled among the folds i
of her basket serviette. “Mr. Card was
late for the funeral,” she said. “And he’s
been on the road since early this morning
without a bite to eat. So I just brought
him in for a cup of hot tea. He can be
ready when they move off.”
A wild gust swept the pine-brush
greyish and trembling across the opening
to their recess.
“I didn’t like to barge in there,” said
Mr. Card.
Among the sheds, loose woodwork
came clattering down. Then footsteps
sounded running across the yard, and a
fusillade of oaths bespoke vexation as
repairs were being effected.
Marne Loveditch writhed from the hip?,
remarkably supple, and pressed anxiously
into the hedge.
“Some day Tenmans’ sheds’ll be flat-
tened.” |
WILF offered this information brightly.
It was the sort of alert observation,
he hoped, that would be appreciated in
Card’s Produce Mart, On impulse he had
decided to ask Mr. Card for a job in
town. The routine of Loveditch’s
Bakery reflected drably in the chromium
of Mr. Card’s new car. An exciting
prospect arose of summer evenings in
town and skating every night ; a change
into flannels and white shirt after days at
the produce mart, and then off to the
nearest skating-rink. But a subtle, dis-
comfiting change had come over Mr.
Card’s expression since he’d thought of
the produce-mart job. Where there had
been a fatuous grimace there was menace
now. Mr. Card smiled, but they. were
snarling lips.
“Buildings can’t dodge old age any
more than we can,” lamented the man
crouching in the hedge. He had been
stirred uneasily to reply by the candor
of Wilf’s stare (frankness, too, would be
appreciated at the produce mart).
Rebuffed by the man’s dejection, Wilf
held off until his request for a job was
likely to be more favorably met.
“My word, mustn’t those men be cold
hanging round that door,” Marne Love-
ditch said. The scene on Tenmans’ side
was engaging her attention. “You’ll know
some of them, Mr. Card.” She
manoeuvred him so that he could spy
through.
Staring through the branches, he shook
his head. “It’s all so long ago.”
“But Matt Crae?” she chided a little im-
patiently, vexed by what she took to be
an unchivalrous lack of interest. “Surely
you remember Matt Crae? The builder.
But I must admit I wasn’t so sure of him
myself at first, seeing him in that funny
old-fashioned black coat and those tight
trousers.”
“I don’t think I’d have known Foster
Tenman himself if I’d seen him alive
today.”
This doleful reply gave Wilf even less
encouragement. But “Isle of Golden
Dreams,” the skating-rink tune, ran
through his head to sustain hini,
“You were an old school-friend of
Foster Tenman’s then?” Marne Loveditch
queried. She used a coy, guessing-game
manner to dress up her curiosity.
“A school-friend,” echoed Mr. Card.
“No, I don’t think he was a school-friend
of mine. I went to a country school near
Invercargill.”
“But you driving all this way to his
funeral, you know, and”
Wilf nodded cynically. A typical Love-
•ditch trick. Let him get out of that.
Mr. Card let his cup drop clinking into
her basket. “Foster Tenman and I were
Bonded Yeomen together.”
At the slightest sound from Tenmans’
side, Mame Loveditch had been twisting
further into the hedge. Seen as she turned
back each time, flushed with ruddy good-
humor and her'fluffy hair teased out, there
might have been anything but a funeral
claiming her attention.
“Somehow I jnst can’t picture Foster
Tenman as a soldier,” she commented.
“Not unless he was a general or some-
body that had the running of things,”
Mr. Card’s smile became definitely
frosty. “The Temperate Order of Bonded
Yeomen,” he explained sadly. “It was a
lodge.”
“Oh, a lodge.”
WILF grinned ingratiatingly. “The
Tobies?” .
He saw his chance coming now. With
some prompting, Mr. Card would soon
be joking about the rumpus among the
Tobies and about Foster Tenman causing
the local T.0.8.Y. Lodge to be struck off
and disbanded. Then, with Mr. Card in
this happy mood, he’d press for a job in
town. . , 4 . „
Not that he expected the account given
((Continued on page 29.)


The Bulletin
Vol. 70.—N0. 3598
Wednesday, January 20, 1949
THE CAT AND THE CANARY.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Map”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
QUALITY AND EQUALITY.
In an age when juvenile delinquency is
arousing dismay in all those concerned
to preserve the virtues of the Australian
people—and, indeed, in a wider sphere
the standards of Western civilisation —
the view of a leading headmaster in our
schools on the condition of society is
bound to command attention. In *his
address at the Headmasters’ conference
in Adelaide, Dr. Darling, of Geelong
Grammar School, was concerned with the
domestic difficulties of the Great Public
Schools in face of parents’ taxation
burdens and rising fees, and the impact
upon the next generation of the present
socialisation and its false doctrine of
equality.
Dr. Darling had nothing to say about
juvenile delinquency as a sign of the
times, or about what one observer called
the other day “the apparently perpetual
hypnosis of mediocrity.” It would have
been interesting to hear, for example, his
comments upon the Sydney “Sun’s”
recent record of this (by no means
solitary) example of citizenship in our
socialistic age:—
A fond, well-dressed father was walking
with his son, somewhere between the ages
of 10 and 12. In a stretch of 80 yards
the kid got away with this without a single
remonstrance from his father —
Took a milk-bottle from a doorway and
smashed it in the street; •
Spat on the windscreen of a parked car;
Ripped a branch off an ornamental tree
of a garden;
Grabbed a handful of rubbish from the
gutter and stuffed it through the slot of a
public letter-box.
Dr. Darling’s is a voice worthy of
respect. He is depressed by the onset of
egalitarianism “which is not suited to the
genius of our race or likely to succeed
for long.” He is appalled by a creeping
sickness of totalitarianism in Australian
politics, and by a resentment in “the pro-
letariat” against the existence of the Great
Public Schools in a land devoted to sub-
sidised education in the State schools.
He fears that “privileged” institutions
like Geelong Grammar may pass out if
heavily-taxed parents who have supported
them should be unable in future to find
the fees.
These anxieties are perhaps natural.
But there is to be discerned in Dr.
Darling’s discourse, as it follows this
strain, a reflection of the very despair in
face of the Socialist demoralisation of
our society against which he and his
fellow - headmasters ought to fight
valiantly to the last, whatever befall. He
admits that the bedevilment of the com-
munity under the hypnosis of mediocrity
cannot but destroy everything of value in
the national character as it has developed.
The malaise the world suffers is no new
affliction ; it has been epidemic after great
wars, revolutions and economic depres-
sions. It is being aggravated today by
Communists for the very purpose of
opposing that effort towards the restora-
tion of order and prosperity which is a
natural symptom of world convalescence.
More than a century ago the great
French liberal, De Tocqueville, writing on
the trend towards egalitarianism which he
observed in the United States, warned
democracy of its dangers :
It is easier to establish an absolute and
despotic government among the people in
which the conditions of society are equal
than among any other; and 1 think that
if such a government were once established
among such a people, it would not only
oppress men, but would eventually strip
each of them of several of the highest
qualities of humanity.
Dr. Darling no doubt knows his De
Tocqueville, and he would presumably
agree with that experienced senior British
civil servant Sir James Grigg, who in his
memoirs, published as Prejudice and
Judgment, declares that the “dictatorship
of the few jnasquerading as the prole-
tariat” in Moscow has produced both a
Government “the most hierarchical in
the world except possibly the new
Dominion of India” and an economic
system “with a wider diversity of reward
(in rates of pay) than any capitalist coun-
try has ever known”; and he adds:
In Britain the approach to Marxism is
still professedly evolutionary; ihdeed it is
probably to an extent unconscious. But it
proceeds, as did the Leninist uprising, on
a basis of envy and hatred much more
than on a desire to produce the sort of
classless and uncperced society that the
anarchists have hopefully envisaged from
time to time.
Materialism, envy, hatred* class-war,
enslavement of the hitherto free citizen—
these are the signs and the motive forces
of an egalitarianism bound to fail (like
Hitler) after having done its damage, and
Dr. Darling said so. But having agreed,
although in something strangely short of
downright fashion, he went on to deny
his lights. “S. M. Herald” quotes him:
Of the three slogans of the French Revo-
lution liberty has been largely discarded,
fraternity has never been tried, but equality
has replaced both as an ideal....
Justice for all has come to mean the
denial of all privilege to anyone; the masses
are the masters and must remain so. It is
useless to deplore this even if we have the
courage to do so. We must accept it.
‘‘We must accept it,” although it means,
he says, an end to “the liberty of indi-
viduals to get what they, as individuals,
want to get out of life for themselves and
for their children,”
So the Australian character is sentenced
to death, is it? “Who’ll come a-waltzing
Matilda with me?” is to be sung not
as a challenge to anyone who aspires to
tell the freeborn Australian how he shall
think and shape his life, but as a requiem
on the passing of the most renowned
quality of our people? Well, when
this insufferable idea gets properly
disseminated among the real Australian
people, the men and women of the back-
country where the egalitarianism of mate-
ship and unselfish common interest, still
flourishing, mocks to scorn the snarling
Socialist mob of the cities in pursuit of
what it calls “social security,” there should
be some reaction of the old healthy sort.
These “social-security” salesmen, these
Socialists aping the Communists and pre-
paring the ground for the Communist
revolution —must they have their way
with us? The masses hypnotised
by mediocrity “must remain the
masters” ; it is “useless to deplore this” ;
we “haven’t the courage” to withstand
it; we “must accept it” though it’s poison
and we know it! We must just lie down
and let these rogues and traitors do what
they like with us, and resign ourselves to
their decree that tjie British and Aus-
tralasian peoples shall never again be
allowed to produce a Disraeli, a Winston
Churchill, a Lloyd George, a Monash, an
Essington Lewis, a Truby King, an
Alexander McCormack, because initiative
and personal character—or wise parents
and outstanding school and college
teachers either —shall not be permitted
to lift an individual above a level of
equality prescribed for the herd by a
swarm of patronising bureaucrats who
wifi manage the new egalitarian Com-
monwealth! Dr. Darling seems to think
that this is our ineluctable fate.
Hitler used to calculate —and Moscow
is copying him —that he had only to keep
up the pressure for long enough and his
victims would help defeat themselves by
losing heart. In Dr. Darling’s own
special preoccupation his right course is
surely to call on all those “privileged”
parents of his pupils (who are the most
likely to feel some concern about the
equipment of the rising generation to keep
the White Australia flag flying), to
sacrifice some of that material happiness
they would prefer to pursue, and devote
themselves at any cost to making men
and not monkeys of their sons.
The sure and inescapable condition of
our survival in the world depends upon
our raising men and women of the
highest possible quality in each genera-
tion, and unrestrained Opportunity to
every individual to develop it as he can
contrive —and not the levelling-down of
all alike to some standard of equality
which any moron might aspire to. If we
reject this, deploring it uselessly with Dr,
Darling—if we resign ourselves to accept
minority rule in a socialised Common-
wealth “socially secured” to meet
organised scarcity, a land wherein nobody
will do any work which he can dodge—
then White Australia is finished.
That also is a Communist aim, and
“Labor”-turned-Socialist has been looking
the other way to avoid seeing it.
Socialist Secret Weapon.
To become convinced that a Royal
Commission is badly needed to probe the
expansion of the Commonwealth Public
Service by the creation of new and in-
flated departments and the employment
of tens of thousands of “temporary”
civil servants—most of whom are safe
for life, though they will still be “tem-
porary” when they go to the grave—all
that is needed is an hour’s study of the
latest Estimates.
Two years before the Second World
War broke out the Lyons Government
was spending £2,200,000 on salaries for
the maintenance of nine departments and
Parliament, while today there are 19 de-
partments and the payroll has been
bumped up to a total of £l6 million,
which is a figure already reduced by
“carryovers” and other deceptive devices.
This excludes “Defence and post-war
charges.” In this year’s Estimates it is
set down that the amount called for to
cover “salary, pay and other votes” for
defence and post-war charges is a mere
£82,1.86,000, to which there is a footnote
that “allocation of defence and war ex-
penditure from revenue between pay and
other votes is not available.” It also
excludes the Postmaster-General’s Depart-
ment, £22,849,850.
The “Labor” Government is deliber-
ately using its vicarious power to appoint
temporary and casual employees to the
service as instruments of socialisation.
And if public opinion does not interfere
in the matter it will certainly succeed.
Public opinion must interfere, since the
inflated Commonwealth service repre-
sents a block vote against any Govern-
ment attempting to act on its own.
In a written answer to a question by
Mr. Davidson, member for Capricornia,
Mr. Chifley on April 15 last gave some
comparative (if ancient) statistics which
deal only with the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment services:
Employees. 30/6/’39. 30/6/’47.
Permanent 32,429 40,315
Temporary and exempt 14,614 60,566
47,043 100,881
These include the P.M.G.’s employees,
who had increased by 18,368 since 1939
to 53,434. The workers in other depart-
ments had grown almost fourfold, from
12,000 to 47,447.
Thus, permanent employees had in-
creased just under 8000 in the period,
and temporary and casual employees had
multiplied at such a rate that, 19 months
ago, they outnumbered by 13,523 the
whole of the Commonwealth Public Ser-
vice, permanent and temporary, in 1939.
And there have been big increases since.
Permanent employees in the old-estab-
lished departments remain reasonably
static, having regard to increases in popu-
lation, but temporary employees have
been added, and are still being added,
to these departments on a staggering
scale. The new and “reorganised” de-
partments are lavish creations.
Mr. Drakeford, for instance, as per
schedule for this year, provides £642,000
for salaries and allowances for per-
manents in his enormous Civil Aviation
Department; but a reference to the detail
of expenditure shows that he has actually
budgeted for £1,181,355, which he has
reduced, to get his total, by the subtrac-
tion of a carryover amount of £534,000,
which is “estimated to remain unexpended
at the end of the year.”
As typical of the human ingredients of
the new departments the content of Mr.
Drakeford’s monster is worth examina-
tion. His permanent staff includes a
director-general, whose salary has gone
up from £2250 to £2500 a year—an active
“Labor” politician with no civil-service
background or aviation training—twp
assistant-director-generals at £1730 each,
a Director of Air Navigation and Safety,
£1540, a Director of Airways, £1550, a
Director of Air Transport and External
Relations, £1370, a Director of Airports,
£1550, a Superintendent of Aviation
Medicine, £lBOO, a Superintendent of Air-
worthiness and Aeronautical Engineering,
£I2OQ, a Chief Engineer at £1250, a tech-
nical adviser abroad at £l3OO, 18 other
officers in the £lOOO-£l2OO range, and liter-
ally dozens among the total permanent
employees administering the department—
-2300 in all —in the £750-£990 range.
These permanents are, however, only
the beginning of the department. Apart
from the employees of such concerns as
Qantas which have been socialised and
whose employees are not included in de-
partmental figures, so far as any indica-
tions available go, an amount of £820,000
is provided this year for temporary and
casual employees, against £619,000 esti-
mated for last year and £740,000 actually
spent.
This year Mr. Ward’s Transport De-
partment exhibits a permanent staff con-
sisting of a secretary at £lBOO a year, a
chief clerk at £924, three assistant-
directors at £1169, a plant engineer at
£984, a technical assistant at £984, a trans-
portation officer at £864, five clerks at an
average of £515. The only permanent
employees of his department who earn
less than £5OO a year are a secretarial
assistant at £466 and two typists who
average £267. Yet the department has
to use officers from other departments,
provides £lOOO for allowances to officers
“performing duties of a higher class”
than their own, and supplements its pay-
roll for regular civil-service employees
with £31,300 for casuals and temporaries.
Another arresting example is in the De-
partnient of Labor and National Service,
administered by the evergreen Mr. E. J.
Holloway—he who presided over the
trade-union congress of 1921 which
drafted into the “Labor” platform the
ideal of government by a supreme eco-
nomic council in place of Parliament, and
who at the time rejoiced openly at the
fact that “Labor” had now adopted the
principles of Karl Marx.
Mr. Holloway’s bloated outfit did
not exist before the war. It now
functions under a permanent secretary at
£2lOO a year, two under-secretaries at
£1332 a year, a chief industrial officer af
£1056, five area officers at £BOO-odd each,
a Director of Industrial Welfare at £1613,
a Director of Industrial Training at £1676,
six deputy-directors *at over £lOOO a year
each, three controllers at £ll9O each, a
chief research officer at £lOO9, five chief
employment officers at about £BOO each,
115 district employment-officers at about
£6OO each, a personnel officer at £966,
four investigating officers at just on £7OO,
19 psychologists and vocational-guidance
officers at an average of over £7OO p.a.
and architects, engineers, dietitians,
librarians, private secretaries and survey
officers to match. In all 1302 permanents
jvere budgeted for last year, though they
are to be reduced to 1189 this year, with-
out pruning the budget for them, which
rose from £531,000 to £624,000. Mr.
Holloway has arranged to increase ex-
penditure on temporary hands from
£465,000 to £600,000 in 1948-49.
Mr. Calwell’s Information Department
put itself down for £16,200 last year on
the permanent-salary side and used only
£13,361. It used the whole of its salary
budget of £174,500 for temporary and
casual employees and a little over.
The detail of its estimates as presented
to Parliament show that in 1947-48 it had
22 permanent employees, and this year
intends to provide for only 18; but
thoug*h its horde of temporaries, as in
the other departments, very evidently
comprise the bulk of the departments,
Parliament and the public, which pays for
them, is not vouchsafed a tittle of in-
formation about their numbers and rates
of pay, save that the cost of them is to
rise by £15,000 at least to £189,000 in
1948-49, where the permanent section of
the staff is to cost £2OO less—only £16,000.
The External Affairs Department
in 1936-37 cost the country £12,670
a year for administration, includ-
ing £9964 for salaries, and less anxiety
by a mile than it does under Dr. Evatt,
who this year spends £249,000, plus an-
other three-quarters of a million for
embassies, consuls and falderals. It
costs more than twice as much for the
salaries of employees in the Moscow
Embassy alone as it used to cost 10 years
ago for the whole administrative salaries
of the department! •
The salient fact is that neither the
country nor Parliament has any just idea
of what the civil service, permanent and
temporary, today represents. It is six
months since the Associated Chambers of
Commerce through their secretary, Mr.
Wilkins, complained that the huge in-
creases in staff had brought the total of
the services up to March, 1948, reaching a
figure slightly in excess of 142,000, and
that “this excessive staffing prevents the
release of employees for productive
labor,” It will be noticed that this
•figure is 42,000 more than that quoted by
Mr. Chifley.
The Commonwealth public service
today exists in a large measure for the
purpose of vote-buying for “Labor” at
taxpayers’ expense and as a secret weapon
for socialisation. Without question the
secrecy should be exploded by a Royal
Commission equipped with adequate
powers of inquiry.
Doctors and Women.
“Mrs. O. T.”: Prudes and prurients not-
withstanding, we women and girls still
possess modesty and shyness, a fact which
the men in the Government overlook
when they talk about nationalised doctors.
No woman would mind very much what
doctor attended her for a cut hand or a
broken asm, but it’s a very different
matter when it comes to those intimate
and purely feminine afflictions (let us
call pregnancy an affliction for the pur-
pose of this article) which are, by nature
and tradition, close secrets between a
woman and her doctor.
Old and young, every woman is faced,
more frequently than is generally sup-
posed by men, with the necessity for
medical attention of a kind that makes
it absolutely necessary for her peace of
mind that she should be able to (a) choose 7
her own doctor and (b) be confident of
his reticence and the knowledge that only
the doctor and herself know about the
trouble. As I and most of my female
acquaintances see it, nationalisation
would mean no free choice of doctors
and the revelation of our troubles to filing-
clerks, inspectors and the usual people
who run Government departments.
Nationalisation of doctors and free
medicine couldn’t work without that.
The shy virgin, the mother of a large
family, the aged spinster, the hardened
harlot—all have secrets which can only
be shared by the medical man of their
choice. And if one doctor doesn’t suit
a woman she must have the right to go
to another. The laws applying to rape
and criminal assault are based on the
sound theory that a woman’s body is her
own property, and she alone has the right
to dispose of it. The Commonwealth
Government now wants to make it, when
in distress, the property of a Government
official and his offsiders,


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Country Party.
Addressing the Federal Council of the
Country party in Melbourne on Monday,
A, W, Fadden put his reasons for the
separate existence of his party in these
terms:
There are two vital reasons why the
Country party must retain its separate
entity. Firitly, primary production is not ex-
panding as it should. Secondly, rural
towns and surrounding productive lands are
losing population to the built-up metropoli-
tan areas. Combined, these factprs demon-
strate the place in Australia for a Country
party whose policy is specifically designed
to restore to rural areas the population and
increased production upon which all Aus-
tralian prosperity and standards of living
ultimately depend.
Primary producers are too often regarded
merely as growers of wheat and wool, as
dairyfarmers and as cattlemen. The Country
party certainly represents these interests,
but its scope is far wider than that. Mining
for coal, iron, zinc and lead are primary
industries. Fishing, forestry and countless
other activities are also primary industries.
Without the raw materials from these in-
dustries the whole population would starve,
the wheels of industry wquld be idle and
overseas contracts and trade would be nil.
That is why primary industries are Aus-
tralia’s backbone and why the Country
party, and it alone, has such an important
future role in the nation’s destinies.
The “and it alone” in the last sentence
may suggest an attitude a little egoistic
for any party to assume ; but the argu-
ment in the first paragraph is something a
Liberal body asking for amalgamation
cannot ignore. There are many reasons
for a Liberal contention that there is
nothing a separate Country party can do
that a merged Liberal-Country party
couldn’t do equally well and with more
decision and effect; but until the Liberals
freely recognise the expressed C.P. aim
of “restoring to rural areas the popula-
tion and increased production” spoken of
by Mr- Fadden, then the separate
existence of the Country party is entirely
justified. In this regard the Liberals could
well start the ball rolling by an earnest
application to the task of creating new
States.
A Communist Squib.
A week’s record from the Melbourne
press of another Communist threat to
blockade Victoria:
Jan. 15; Local secretary of the Seamen’s
Union said the union might again (as in last
November) impose a ban on coal ships in
Victorian waters in order to force repeal of
the Hollway Government’s Essential Services
Act. On the previous day this official, Comrade
Bird, sent an impudent letter to the Victorian
Premier demanding to know his intentions,, as
“the Seamen’s Union had decided it must be
X6|36cilcci 55
Jan 17: Mr. Bird made further statements_ to
arouse excitement —previous utterance haying
failed to disturb the calm of the Premier’s
office. Said the militant unions would show
the Trades Hall moderates, “who were working
to please the Liberal Government,” that they
did not require their help to bring about repeal
of the Act.
Jan. 18: Premier Hollway gave a terse
reply to the Seamen’s Union and said he had
sent Bird’s letter on to the Trades Hall.
Jan 19: Bird refused to discuss the threatened
strike, because, he said, negotiations \vith other
unions had “reached a delicate stage.”
Jan. 19: Militant unions at a combined
meeting deferred action as threatened by the
seamen apd resolved to make “another effort
to secure Trades Hall co-operation.”
Of course the Prahran by-election was
nearing its close, and a blockade of coal
ships would have been fatal to “Labor.”
"Up in a Balloon, Boys!"
Mr. Chifley’s “Golden Age” proceeds
on its rollicking course with another in-
flationary rise in the basic wage of 2s.
in Sydney, 3s. in Melbourne, and 3s. or
4s. in other capital cities. They are to go
up again in May, and “all these in-
creases,” says the Acting Commonwealth
Statistician, “will be repeated in the
second half of 1949.”
Every Is. a week rise in the basic wage
adds £155,000 to the N.S.W. Govern-
ment’s annual railway and road-transport
bill alone, which means £310,000 in this
last hit. For the State’s services other
than business undertakings, the higher
cost will be £164,000. That makes about
£500,000 altogether.
Victorian Government costs in the
same lines will be up £280,000 in trans-
port services, and the total of all
public services will be £600,000.
Estimating the rest of the Australian
States on a pro rata basis, the additional
annual charges can not be much less than
£1,600,000, and the Commonwealth
figures could carry this to well over
£2,000,000. How long can this increase
be tolerated in each quarter of every
year?
Of course, what the higher wage-level
represents is not better pay but higher
costs of living boosted by previous basic-
wage lifts. All rail and tram fares will
have to move upwards again, likewise all
shipping freights and charges on house-
holders for gas and electric power. Re-
trepchments of services and staff are ex-
pected soon in retail stores. Added costs
of every new house will Rut building
more than ever opt of the reach of the
small man.
The breakdown must come at this pace,
and the only question is when. By the
time the first section on a tram-ride costs
25., the shilling in every man’s pocket
will be worth what a penny was two
years ago. Something will have blown
up before then. The “Labor” election-
campaign director in Victoria has already
announced his guess for the date as about
the middle of this year.
That will just about fit in with the
pre-election period, and the Chifleyite
authors of this “Golden Age” will pro-
claim unblushingly that “the recession”
is upon us and only a “Labor” Govern-
ment can help the ‘country to weather it.
There will be no doubt about where the
responsibility for the “recession” will
lie this time.
For Art's Sake.
The buzz in the court ceased as the
magistrate took his seat.
“The Musicians’ Union against
Eduardo Goosseni,” intoned the clerk.
Mr. Brief, for the M.U., arose. “We
seek an injunction against Mr. .Goosseni,”
he said, “to restrain him from performing
on the violin. He has only been in this
country five weeks, and, naturally being
debarred from playing in an orchestra
by the ban imposed upon aliens by the
Musicians’ Union, he sought and obtained
employment as a waiter. We have no
quarrel with that, since he readily joined
the relevant union, which, as yet, imposes
no birth bans, but he was twice discovered
WHERE SILENCE IS GOLDEN
giving violin solos, once in the restaurant
where he is employed and once at a
charity concert in the suburb where he
lives.”
“Is that a crime?” asked the magistrate
mildly.
“Not in itself, if your Worship pleases.
Rut the trouble is that people who hear
him playing seek to engage him. We
know that he has been offered quite high
remuneration. The leader of the State
orchestra has been bombarded with letters
asking why this man is not playing
therein. In all fairness we must admit
that Mr. Goosseni has refused all offers,
but the trouble is that his playing is a
source of continuous trouble. There are
influential persons who persist in saying
that the union ban on aliens is depriving
the country of musical talent which it
badly needs. My clients had somewhat
similar trouble with the Welsh oboeist
who, if your Worship recalls, it was
found necessary to deport because, on
finding himself debarred from orchestral
work because of the union’s ban on
British musicians with less than 10 years’
residence, he formed a band of musicians
in the same case as himself and led them
round the streets playing an inflammatory
march called —er —‘Men of Harlech.’ In
view of these things and the possibility
of further trouble, my clients consider
that an injunction restraining Mr.
Goosseni from playing at all in public
places is necessary to maintain that high
level of harmony which organised music
in this country has achieved. I have
several expert witnesses, should your
Worship need them.”
“Which is Mr. Goosseni?” asked the
magistrate.
A plainly-dressed, dark man of middle-
age and medium build stood up and
bowed,
“Mr. Goosseni, what have you to say?”
The respondent looked round him in a
bewildered manner. “I no understand,”
he said hesitantly.
“Understand this,” said the magistrate.
“You are a menace. You not only , get
yourself born in Europe, but you get
yourself born with talent. You devote
your life to music: you become a violinist
of excellence. You come to this country
in search of food and freedom, and you
persist in exhibiting your talent in such
a way that you are likely to exert upon
the musical art of this country a decidedly
beneficial influence. Why, many more
like you and the standard of our music
would rise immeasurably. That sort of
thing is not permitted, Mr. Goosseni.
Not permitted. I hope you will come to
appreciate that in this matter the appel-
lant union has given a lead that might
well be followed by the other arts. There
are too many British and foreign books,
paintings and sculptures in this country
as it is. Mr. Brief, the injunction is
granted.”
The respondent stared at the Bench.
“This —this thing?” he asked. ‘How
she mean —I must not play? No place?”
“Oh,” said the magistrate wearily,
“you can play in your home. But be
sure the doors and windows are sealed
so that no music can escape. We can't
take a chance on a member of tire
Musicians’ Union happening to pass your
place and hearing you. Why, Mr.
Goosseni, lesser things than that have
stopped our coalmines, wharves and rail-
way services. Next case!”
Clean-hands Certificate.
Said the Philippine delegate to Dr.
Evatt’s delegate at the Pan-Asian con-
ference in Delhi:
Australia is one nation whose hands are
clean in relation to Indonesia and in her
wholehearted support of U.N.O.
Which forces the remark that other
hands must indeed be dirty.
What Our Foreign Policy, as directed
by the Communist-bossed wharfies’ union,
has done to deserve this certificate is to
impose sanctions against one party in
the Indonesian dispute without even wait-
ing to hear any U.N.O. judgment on the
matter, and to behave generally as though
the hearing of this case and the evidence
supplied shall be rigged to suit the sen-
tence already given by Dr. Evatt and
Comrade Healy,
Along With this, “Australia,” repre-
sented by one of this partnership, forced
itself into the limelight as an arbitrator
in the dispute. Perhaps Dr. Evatt will
procure a testimonial from the Indonesian
“republic,” or Indo-China, to the effect
that “Australia” not only has clean hands
but is also an unbiased neutral.
Actually all this ballyhoo impresses
nobody, and U.N.0., as we have known
it, is quite impotent even to blow its own
nose. “Supporters of U.N.0.” support
but a defunct hope. Soviet Russia has
killed U.N.0., and it is today merely
an embalmed corpse in a glass case,
like Lenin in the Kremlin.
The Western democracies are obviously
preparing to create anew organisation
of United Nations to which Communist
Russia may one day be admitted after
proof of fitness. That is, if Communists
can, from the very nature of their creed
of violence, bring themselves to worjc
for peace with anybody else whatsoever.
The Unjust Petrol Tax.
It has been contended here that “the
Opposition should remember the petrol
tax in the coming election year.” So
should motorists, who have been singled
out for one of the worst forms of sec-
tional taxation ever inflicted.
Imposed by the Bruce-Page Govern-
ment in 1926, the tax was fixed at 3d.
a gallon, its sole purpose being to
finance road-building and maintenance.
By 1930 it was 7d. a gallon. In 1940 it
rose to Is. and was then a war tax, put
on purely to help finance the war. It
was even then an unjust and sectional
tax, but those who paid it didn’t mind,
being as anxious to help the war effort as
anyone else.
It is now nearly 3| years since the wars
ended, but the tax remains (somewhat re-
luctantly reduced to 10id.) not as a war
tax, not as a special tax for road works,
but, as the Prime Minister cynically told
the N.R.M-A., “primarily a revenue im-
post, and its maintenance is necessary to
meet the expenditure of the Common-
wealth.” In other words, petrol-users
pay a special tax to help finance in-
creased old-age pensions, “free medicine,”
socialised air- and shipping-lines, unem-
ployment benefits and all the other some-
thing-for-nothing schemes by which the
Chifley Government hopes to hold office.
Since the tax was first imposed it had
yielded £164 million up to June last
year. But only £57 million has gone in
road works. When the States, egged on
by local-government authorities, sought
some of the money to repair war-
damaged roads and build new ones, Can-
berra grudgingly split up a million or so
among them. It wasn’t a twentieth of
the money needed.
Motor-owners—and they and the
motoring industry contribute vast sums
to the Federal Treasury in other forms
of taxation —are plainly the victims of a
legalised fraud. They are being invited
by motoring organisations to join in a
campaign for reduction of the petrol tax.
They’re likely to get some cut when the
election draws near. But that isn’t
enough ; they should insist that the petrol
tax still levied be devoted to its true
purpose—the building and maintenance
of roads.
Cold Facts on Coal.
In the course of a dismal review of the
coalmining industry during 1948, “Re-
search Service” cites the promises of the
miners’ executive at the beginning of the
year, the pathetic story of the Coal
Board’s attempts to keep that executive
up to its promises, and the final result —
not one of them carried out.
The miners’ officials’ undertakings thus
made and dishonored are of such vital
importance in any effort to increase coal
output that the changes in out-
moded mining practice which they involve
must be sought again this year by the
joint Governments’ coal authority. The
“Research Service” review lists the desired
changes thus: —
Increased man-day output; ■
Increased “dargs”;
Elimination of petty stoppages through
pit-top conciliation committees;
More stringent holiday qualifications and
splitting of holiday period.
Man-shift underground output has
fallen steadily ever since “Labor” took
over the Commonwealth Administration.
In 1936-39 the average was 3,43 tons, in
1940 it was 3.40 and in 1941 3.32. It then
fell, despite the war peril to Australia,
from 3.21 in Mr. Curtin’s first year of
office steadily down to 2.90 in the latest
year under Mr. Chifley. Yet “Labor”
came in declaring it was the only Gov-
ernment which could get coal!
On the northern fields the “darg,” or
daily number of skips filled by each pair
of miners, is in. some mines so low that
many miners can go home at one o’clock
in the day. After great efforts the miners’
executive was induced last August to ap-
prove of increased output by two skips
per pair of miners where power-borers
were installed, but the lodges have never
complied.
For years the miners’ executive has
agreed, in return for concessions from
“Labor” Governments or the Coal Board,
to discipline the unruly minority of its
members, and specifically to accept pit-
top conciliation committees (to decide
on the spot, for instance, how objection-
able really is the breath of some horse
which a wheeler has made the excuse for
stopping a whole shift). The miners’
executive has never done anything to
prevent these stoppages.
The demands of the Coal Board, made
at least twice last year, that the miners’
annual holidays must be earned, and that
pay for statutory holidays must depend
on steady work for at least five days be-
fore and behind each such paid holiday,
has been persistently spurned with con-
tempt by the miners’ union bosses. By
aid of “Labor” Governments’ sympathetic
intervention these bosses have so far
carried, the day.
But for the increased output from open-
cut workings in 1948 Australian industry
Would have Ijeen in desperate straits.
The equating of consumption with
production last year was obtained only
by drastic rationing in N.S.W. during
ẃ


CRAVEN
A
It’s their consistent
freshness that
makes me prefer
CRAVEN'A'
~rf... ■uMttb'Vabff
6435 E/R
CARRERAS LIMITED OVER ISO YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
the winter and by restricting inter-State
allotments.
In consequence of the imposition of heavy
rationing throughout Australia some 742,000
tons of coal less than the bare mjnimum
requirements was used. Adding this figure
to the actual consumption, 12,415,000 tons
was the production necessary to provide
the barest needs of the community without
rationing.
The needs in 1948 (short of “the
barest”) were more like 12,950,000 tons,
which fits the Coal Board’s announced
target of 13,000,000. It could have been
produced if 2,027,445 tons had not been
lost by strikes and petty stoppages.
Not only has production annually
fallen under “Labor” Governments, but
the losses through strikes have steadily
increased since the establishment of. Go-
vernment control, through the Joint Coal
Board—that half-way house to nationalis-
ation, instituted to appease the miners. In
1946, the year before the board was
formed, strike losses were 1,347,392 tons.
Then this:
1947 1,671,206 tons
1948 2,027,445 tons
For 1949 the Coal Board’s “target”
must be something better than that for
1948, and “Research Service” shows that
minimum requirements of 13,300,000
tons could easily be produced if there
were no more days lost through strikes
than in 1942 (50 per cent.), and produc-
tion were raised to the 1942 level. These
would be moderate enough aims. The
potential production of N.S.W. coalfields
(plus opencut yield) if strikes were
eliminated, would be, on the 1942 level,
14,500,000 tons. And there has been
advance in mechanisation since 1942.
What could be done with the working
of a second shift and with the mechanical
removal of pillar coal, as recommended
by the Davidson Commission, would
make even today’s optimum look insig-
nificant.
That extra coal must be won or Aus-
tralian industry will be hamstrung.
POLITICAL POINTS
At Saturday’s by-election Victorian
“Labor” retained its Prahran seat in the
Assembly by about 500 votes. That
compares with a “Labor” margin
of 91 at the general elections 15 months
earlier and is proclaimed “a ‘Labor’
victory.” About 200 people in 22,000
who voted changed their minds in the
meantime. The reasons pretty obviously
were: (1) A few electors believed the
“Labor” story that rising prices is the
fault of the Hollway Government—in
which case the Government should also
have got the credit for raised wages ; and
(2) the Liberals’ loss of prestige through
the row with the Country party in Vic-
toria. Considering that the row was
caused by Mr. Hollway’s refusal to use
coercive legislation against the unions as
the C.P. wished, the argument seems to
be that a few more Prahranites voted
“Labor” because the Hollway Govern-
ment would not go for the unions “boots
and all.” A weird bird the elector, some-
times !
Anthony Eden, Deputy Opposition
Leader in the Commons, is touring the
Dominions. He doesn’t want to
talk so much as observe: “I want to
get the real atmosphere of the
Dominions.” The best way to do that
in Australia would be to spend a few
days trying to spot somebody working
on a wharf or digging in a coalmine.
The Burgowan (Q.) coal “dispute” is
following the usual Communist pattern
(B. 19/1 /’49). No sooner had “agree-
ment” for resumption of work been
reached than the Communist-led coalies
found another excuse for trouble. Of the
150 Burgowan men who were pulled out
in Oct. 25 got union permission to take
other jobs. The Burgowan mines want to
re-employ them, the union says they can't
until “preference is given to any financial
member of the union before the 25 are
taken on.” The owners call this victimisa-
tion by the union. So there are to be
“aggregate meetings” of Queensland
coalies today to decide whether or not to
call a general strike on February 3. This
takes the Burgowan strike into its 16th
week, and does Queensland out of about
20,000 tons of coal. And it all began
because Senator “Fixer” Ashley couldn’t
keep his finger out of a very small pie
when the Communist miners’ leader
Millar urged him to stick it in.
Sydney people were told by their old-
est daily paper last week that the “Dutch
Labor party has called on Holland to
fulfil her pledges on Indonesia” and that
a special party congress had demanded
that Holland should co-operate with
U.N.O. by:
Immediate and full implementation of her
political promises to Indonesia and the
Security Council, including the release of
the Indonesian Republican leaders.
The resolution also called for:
Immediate establishment of an'lnterim
Federal Government acceptable as a
genuinely national Government throughout
the whole of Indonesia, including the'Re-
public. v
Free elections throughout Indonesia, with
secret ballot.
The granting to the Indonesian Federal
Interim Government of its own police and
army, as soon as possible, to take .over
the maintenance of law and order from the
Dutch troops.
Correct, except for an important
omission. Hilversum Radio supplied it;
The resolution further sets forth that as
responsible bodies in the Republic had been
sponsoring systematic terrorism and had
planned armed action to begin on January
1, negotiations aiming at co-operation be-
came impossible and military action by
the Netherlands Government was thus made
unavoidable.
That makes it a horse of another
color.
Lord Milverton, who said some shrewd
things in the Lords last week in a debate
on Indonesia, was formerly A. F.
Richards, and spent more than a quarter
of a century of his colonial service in and
around Malaya, Borneo and Fiji, He
showed himself well aware that the Aus-
tralian Government’s policy is dictated
by “the Sydney waterfront” unions, and
warned all Empire Governments con-
cerned that the interference, sponsored
by India and Australia, in the domestic
affairs of the N.E.L could easily be fol-
lowed by similar interference with the
British military action against Com-
munist-inspired rebellion in Malaya. So
it could, and probably will be. But Dr.
Evatt either ignores the danger-signal or
doesn’t care.
According to our Dr. Evatt, Australia
is now among the recognised leaders of
the United Nations. But who are the
united nations?
A sore point with Canberra union
bosses is the abolition of the A.C.T. In-
dustrial Board, which fixed wages and
conditions in Canberra. A Mr. Gardiner,
of the A.W.U., who is up for pre-selection
for the new Canberra seat, blames Senator
McKenna for it. “Younger men,” he
said, “may live to see the day when
Senator McKenna crosses to the other
side of the House like Joe Lyons and
the rest of them.” Not, it can be stated,
with his “free-medicine” scheme.
McKenna’s determination to pursue the
“free” medical scheme in defiance of the
doctors and nurses is linked with the
Chifley Government’s plans for priority
assistance, under the post-war training
programme, for 2000 trainee doctors,
2000 trainee nurses and 1100 trainee
dentists. Whether these people will be
professional practitioners first and Gov-
ernment officials second, or vice-versa,
is not yet clear.
India’s P.M., Pandit Nehru, believes
the White Australia policy is “legitimate
if based on a standard of living and not
a racial plane.” “Illegitimacy” is not a
nice thing even to suggest among friends
in the Evatt diplomatic circle;'but the
rest is a two-edged admission, since a
standard of living is what the White Aus-
tralian thinks about when he shies off
letting crowds of cblored people into the
country. '
Dr. Evatt had no trouble in retaining
A.L.P, selection for the Barton seat —
whether he’ll have trouble in holding
it is another matter. Barton must be
somewhat tired of a Federal member
who is seldom in sight and whose concern
for the electorate’s welfare is insignificant
compared with his concern for his own
aggrandisement.
Double pay for gas and tramway em-
ployees working on Sundays on the
ground that if the public wants services
performed on that day it must pay for
them! Wait till the preachers’ union
hears about it.
The National Council of Wool Selling
Brokers has a new estimate for the
1948-49 wool clip of about 3,220,000
bales, 60,000 over the original estimate
and an increase of 210,000 on the 1947-48
clip. On a rough estimate of £6O a bale,
that ought to put another £3.6 million
on to the current wool cheque. What a
run of luck we’re having with land pro-
ducts !
The Truman inauguration ceremonies
in Washington (U.S.A.) were planned on
a magnificent and costly scale —by a
Republican Congress which expected to
celebrate the election of Dewey to the
U.S. Presidency, No wonder Truman
laughs so easily these days.
Mr. Pollard is predicting a wheat crop
of 170 million bushels and reckons it’ll
be worth £lOO million; £75 million
from export at 15s. 6d. a bushel and £25
million from local sales. Nobody wants
to be a nark, but the world price of wheat
dropped 7s. a bushel in the past year and
America is anticipating a storage surplus
of at least 200 million bushels. Mean-
time, one of Mr. Pollard’s officers is off
to the International Wheat Conference in
Washington, where an international wheat
agreement won’t be reached.
Clarrie Fallon, Queensland secretary
of the A.W.U., replied to the Com-
munist jeer at the A.W.U. conference
that A.W-U. men were “basic-wage
earners”:
Many laborers in the A.W.U. are earn-
ing twice as much as tradesmen in the
unions whose officials attack us. We got
those conditions by loyal adherence to the
Australian working-class movement, not by
cheap publicity, silly strikes, silly demon-
strations, silly one-day stoppages, or talk
of revolutions.
Correct, except that there’s nothing
“silly” about the strikes; they are a
deadly tactic in the Communist strategy
to reduce Australians to want and misery
and thus make them pliant tools of the
Communist conspiracy.
Adermann, C.P. member for Maranoa
at Canberra, tips a Christmas election
this year on the grounds that none of the
present Federal members can draw from
the pensions scheme until after the end
of November:—
The Chifley Government can hold office
until February 7 next year, and it is un-
likely to go to the polls until the pensions
scheme is operative.
If the tip is a good one it can only mean
that the Chifley crowd is not at all sure
that all “the boys” can hold their seats.
The World Federation of Trade Unions
held a meeting of its Executive Bureau
—Britain, U.S.A., Holland, Russia,
France, Italy and China—in Paris last
week. The British, U.S. and Dutch dele-
gates then walked out, the U.S. man an-
nouncing that all that was left of the
W.F.T.U. was its Communist section and
“the stench.” The Australian Council
of Trades Unions is still affiliated with
the stench.
There’s a lot of talk lately about the
“drift to the cities” and what ought to
be done to stop it. Yet nearly every city
newspaper is carrying this kind of ad-
vertisement :
Country Girls.
Would You Like to Live in Sydney?
(or Melbourne as the case may be.)
Congenial, well-paid work in an established
industry for girls 19 to 26 years. Board
and lodging at reasonable cost. Apply by
letter, etc.
It’ll be a happy day (perhaps!) when
we’re all working in the city and nobody
is left outback to grow the food, wool
and other stuff to supply us with “con-
genial, well-paid work” in the Big Smoke.
With Victorian C.P. leaders recovering
their sanity, the proposal for not only a
healing of the breach, but even a merger
of the parties, is receiving a much better
reception. Mr. Hyland’s advocacy, at a
crowded meeting at Leongatha, of “one
big political party to fight the menace of
Communism” was received with cheers;
and the State Liberal-party president has
attended a “secret meeting” at Bendigo
where moves were initiated to form a
new Liberal-Country League. The execu-
tive of the Parliamentary Country party
has now written to the Liberal party pro-
posing a conference “to overcome the
present political difficulties.” Preliminary
party meetings are proposed for * Feb-
ruary 3.
According to Victoria’s Housing
Minister, Mr. Warner, it now takes an
average of 10 months to build a house,
compared with 10 weeks before the war.
He did not go into the matter of how
long it would take the average man to
pay for the average house at today’s
average price.
Although on the Sydney wharves an
internal dispute in the Clerks’ Union over
tally-clerks was settled by a Conciliation
Commissioner sitting as “a private arbi-
trator” (whatever that may mean), on
Brisbane wharves an inter-union dispute
over handling one ship’s cargo and on
Melbourne wharves an inter-union dis-
pute (and ballot) over whether the “long-
shift” practice there shall be abandoned
preserve for another Communist-bossed
union a. choice of excuses for an Aus-
tralia-wide hold-up of shipping, if that
suits the Communist book. As an an-
swer to the representations from overseas
shipowners that the turn-round of ships
in Australian ports—slowest in the world
—is seriously disorganising international
trade, these disturbances on the Australian
waterfront are only to be expected.
Meantime, roars of silence emanate from
the Stevedoring Industry Commission,
which is supposed to keep order on the
nation’s wharves.
Coalmining in N.S.W. got off to the
customary bad start after the miners’
holidays. Nearly 20,000 tons was lost in
three days through petty stoppages, and
the miners kept up that average for the
rest of the week. “It is a great
pity,” said a spokesman for the Joint
Coal Board, which just before resumption
was told by one union boss that it had
a “damn’ cheek” trying to scrabble up
a few tons of opencut coal to keep things
going. The J.C.B, was too proud—or
something—to answer the gentleman.
With the admission of Newfoundland
to the Union, Canada gains a tenth pro-
vince. Under an agreement signed in
Ottawa recently the new Province,
which includes Labrador, will send six
representatives to the Canadian Senate
and seven to the Commons. Capada takes
over Newfoundland’s sterling debt, under-
takes to make an annual grant to the pro-
vincial Government, and extends its social
services to cover Newfoundlanders.
Canadian newspapers, finding that word
rather a mouthful, have begun to call the
Dominion’s new citizens “Newlanders.”
There are something like 330,000 of them,
and from July 1 they will have the
privilege of paying Canadian income tax.


CHIANG’S FAREWELL TO HIS STEED.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Bo” : One of those individuals en-
dowed with heaps of self-confidence, he
attached himself with a casually-tossed
by-your-leave to 1 our trio as we set out
from the guest-house for the links. By
the time we had reached the first green
he had appointed himself our tutor and
adviser-in-chief. At the fifth tee, the
fairway from which is flanked by a muddy
dam, I, knowing my weakness for dams,
cannily pocketed the new four-and-six-
penny ball I’d started off with and teed
up with an old bob repaint. It was then
that our mentor opened the floodgates
of his scorn. This was not only a golfing
enormity I contemplated, but it was psy-
chologically all wrong! I was making
up my mind subconsciously in advance
that I would put the ball in the dam, and
I assuredly would, etc. Be bold ! Like
this —and, tearing the paper off a new
ball he teed up and drove off, going
straight up the fairway. See? Forget
the dam altogether, and, to show your
contempt, use a new ball ! Sold by this
exposition, shamefacedly I pulled out my
beautiful new four-and-sixpenny and,
following his adjuration, laid my ears
back and cracked it. It was a lovely
hook, and like a bird to its nest the pill
plopped fair in the middle of the dam.
I ask only this of some authority, purely
on a point of golfing ethics: Was I
strictly correct in laying him flat with
my driver, or should I have used my No.
5 iron?
♦ * ♦ ♦
“H.A.L.”: Even funnier than an
orderly-room sergeant with no form to be
filled in (B. 5/1/’49) is the high-ranking
officer meeting something new. I found
it necessary to make a trip to obtain some
information; nobody could give me per-
mission among the lower ranks, so I was
paraded to a staff officer. Old Red Tabs
somewhat hindered my attempts to ex-
plain my case; he did not give me a
chance to complete a sentence, but always
cut in with some theory of his own. He
concluded with: “If you want information,
get the Army pamphlet on the subject.”
I pointed out that there was no such
pamphlet in existence. “How do you
know that?” he barked. I replied, “Be-
cause I haven’t written it yet, sir.” For
a full minute he stared at me as one in
a daze; finally, in a mechanical sort of
way, he wrote out authority for the trip
and handed it over. I think that up to
that moment the old boy had honestly
thought Army pamphlets, training
manuals and so on were spontaneously
generated in some sort of a hot-house
down at headquarters ; the possibility that
human beings wrote them and needed to
obtain information before they could do
it hadn’t struck him before.
* ♦ * ♦
“Ike Hollar”: A Sydney couple inter-
ested in genealogy delved into their own
origins and were intrigued to find that
they were kinspeople, being descended
from a common ancestor who died over
200 years ago. In the scale of descent
there are three generations between them
—his descent is from a son who did not
marry until late in life and, that late-mar-
riage principle being apparently handed
on, there are only seven steps of descent
from the common ancestor ; hers is from
a daughter who married at 17, and she is
10 steps from the old boy. On the cus-
tomary assessment of three generations to
a century there should be 100 years’ dif-
ference between the ages of the couple;
actually there are only two or three.
« * * •
“Shy-talk”: At least five Australians
can claim the distinction of having been
shipwrecked on the coast of Switzerland.
They, with two Englishmen, were the
crew of a Lancaster bomber which
attacked Friedrichshafen on the northern
shore of Lake Constance on the German-
Swiss frontier. The Lane, was hit by a
German fighter, and with the cockpit full
of smoke the Aussie skipper lost control
and ordered his crew to bale out. Bomb-
aimer and flight-engineer got clear, then
the inrush of air cleared the smoke and
the pilot was able to see his instruments
and bring his still-burning machine back
on to an keel. Just then the gunners
reported that their parachutes had been
damaged by fire. Down below Lake Con-'
stance was clearly visible in the light of
searchlights and fires, so the skipper de-
cided to “ditch” the aircraft in the lake.
He i>ut her down safely and the five re-
maining members of the crew took to the
dinghy. The incident was observed from
both sides of the lake and a race ensued
“ She's working for the hospital .”
for the privilege of performing the rescue.
A Swiss launch won. All except the pilot
were suffering from burns and were placed
in hospital, but the skipper was repatriated
to England almost immediately under the
provisions of International Law dealing
with “distressed mariners,” He travelled
through France under German escort.
* * * *
“Pharmo”: Those chemists’ hours (B.
5/1/’49). Dad was a country-town
chemist, and he was still on the premises
the night after he sold the business prior
to retiring. He had one more job to per-
form . . . when the übiquitous aspirin
fiend roused him at 2 a.m. Dad was at
last in a position, after 30 years of it, to
throw up the window and yell “Go to
Hell!” Then he slammed down the
window and retired.
* ♦ * *
“Unicorn”: These little Australian
oddities. A friend of mine who’s a pro-
lific letter-writer and also has a good
deal of business correspondence moved
to an isolated settlement. Not long after
his arrival the postmistress thanked him
profusely for his letter-writing prowess.
It saved her the hitherto-hated task of
writing letters from and to herself in
order to meet the minimum requirements
of so many letters per week to keep the
post-office open.
* * ♦ ♦
“Architect”: Far from being a modern
development the prefabricated house was
common in Chaucer’s England. Small
houses were built of timber-fram-
ing, joined by wattling, which was daubed
over either With clay or a mixture of
lime, clay and chopped straw. The framing
was often prepared for assembly in a
carpenter’s yard, and transported in pieces
to the site. Each adjoining piece was
marked at the joints with appropriate
numbers, roman numerals being used.
There are some buildings still standing
which carry such numerals —Stratford-on-
Avon Grammar School is one., When a
citizen in those days changed his resi-
dence he often had his house taken down
and re-erected. Stowe, the historian,
records that when Henry VIII’s Minister,
Thomas Cromwell, extended the garden
of his London mansion 22 perches by
filching that amount of land from his
neighbors, a house owned by Stowe’s
father, one of the victims, was lifted from
its site and taken back the required dis-
tance on rollers.
“Colonial Cove”: Prefabricated
houses? Swan River settlement had
plenty of ’em a century ago. Thomas
Peel, with a grant of a quarter of a
million acres just south of Fremantle,
brought out almost a whole town ready-
made. At the Clarence, now the Cock-
bum Sound Naval Base, cottages and
storehouses were landed in sections,
erected quickly, filled with valuable goods,
then left to such neglect that in about
five years the embryo township was a
mass of crumbling ruins. They were
made of pine, which was just pie for the
white-ants. Much the same thing hap-
pened to Perth’s first church, also a
prefab. After being eaten into decrepi-
tude it was auctioned for £25 to form the
nucleus of a whaling-station on Carnac
Island, During 1834 a Marshall Mac-
Dermott arrived at the Swan with over
100 Swedish prefabs. By this time the
settlement had learned to use brick or
stone “stumps,” so the MacDermott
importations gave the infant capital a
decided fillip. Some of these houses were
carted over the ranges to ease the housing
position at York.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“South Coast”: The criminal at large!
I hiked over the Victorian ranges with
a friend at the time the notorious Angus
Murray had broken jail. We called at a
farmhouse where the good folk were
convinced that killers only escaped to
“make for our place and murder the lot
of us.” But my friend reassured them
and discussed the probable movements
of Angus with such accurate knowledge
that the settlers exclaimed, “You know
him then?” “Yes, I know him all right.
I spent two years in quod with him.”
And the dry old stick shouldered his
pack and left the good people greatly
wondering what jailbird could be wearing
a clerical collar. How were they to
know that Padre Gates had been a
prison chaplain?
* ♦ * ♦
“Bula”: Our boss has a memory which
seems to slip a cog at times. Recently
he bought a new car, proudly drove it to
town and parked it a couple of streets
away from the office. The day’s work
finished, he picked up his hat and coat
and went home by tram. For the next
two days he went to and fro by tram. On
the third morning he recollected his pur-
chase, went to his garage and found it
empty. On phoning the police to report
the theft. he received a reply that his
car had been just reported as being un-
attended in a city street for two days.
♦ * * *
“Karrimba”: Tell “Zake” (B.
5/1 /’49) that the letters “P. and O,” not
only sound like a word but actually are
a word to the Indians who form the
majority of their crews. On a Port
Adelaide wharf recently an Indian sailor
from a near-by ship approached me and,
with a nod towards a vtssel coming up
the stream, inquired of me: “That one
Pinnoo?” My obvious perplexity —his
word sounded nothing like the name of
the ship—must have irked him slightly as
he repeated quickly “Pinnoo! Pinnoo! ”
Then, pointing to the now-visible P, and
O. houserfl.ag at the main, “Yes, you see,
that one Pinnoo.” My mystification was
gone. He couldn’t read the vessel’s name
nor speak much English, but a flag was
enough to evoke a “word” foreign to me.
but of everyday use to thousands.
$ 3|c $
“Ka walla”: Swords (B. 5/1//49)?
Fine Damascus blades were once tem-
pered to a nicety by a pleasant ancient
formula. The steel was heated to “the
color of the rising sun” and thrust, six
times, into the body of an Ethiopian
slave. “Then, if with one stroke the
master-workman severs the head of the
slave from his body and the sword dis-
plays no nick or crack along the edge,
and the blade may be bent around the
body of a man and not break, it will be
accepted as a perfect weapon.”
• • • •
“X.S.”: Melbourne’s Mr. Bell is an
astute man, and as he loves trams and
hates buses he couldn’t have proved his
point better than by taking a referendum
inside the double-decker buses of Bourke-
street (B. 5/.1/’49). The sadists of Belsen
couldn’t have conceived of a more
hideous form of torture. But at peak-
times Mr. Bell’s trams are just as bad, and
if a referendum were taken in them a
majority of victims would probably plump
for buses. What he should have done
was to take a referendum on trams, buses
and trolley-cars; but he doesn’t like
trolley-cars any more than he likes buses.
Personally I hate all these alleged modern
amenities and can’t see they are any im-
provement on the old cable-trams for
which Melbourne citizens used to have a
sentimental affection. And if rushing
along at 60 miles an hour in a motor-car,
not giving yourself time to look at any-
thing, is better than driving in a jinker
I fail to see it.
• ♦ • •
“Taswegian”: “Mcß.’s” par. (B.
22/12/’4B) on the letter-card that Mum
had to read before it was opened reminds
me of the shop we patronised when I
was a boy. The shopkeeper had nice ice-
blocks, and his wife made scrumptious
pies, so that when the shop was closed on
Sundays we merely trooped round the
back. On the back-door hung a sign:
If the front-door is not open
please come round the back.
* ♦ * ♦
“Shavia”: Heard an Adelaide connie
on a school-holiday-time tram delight-
fully put a 12-year-old to rights on his
manners. Several middle-aged and elderly
folk were straphanging on the crowded
tram while the young master sat squarely
on a seat. *“Got your mother or father
with you, son?” said the conductor.
“No,” was the reply. “Any brothers or
sisters?” “No.” “Any cousins or aunties
or uncles?” “No.” “All by yourself,
then?” “Yes.” “Ah, well, that explains
it,” came back the connie. “You’ve got
no one to tell you its manners to offer
your seat to your elders.” It worked.
* * * *
“Lim-Limbu”: A memorial to men
from the district killed in the war was
unveiled recently at Bulolo (New Guinea).
Among the casualties were men who lost
their lives in places as far apart as
Singapore and 200 yards from the
memorial site. The monument is made
of Bulolo granite and was fashioned
locally. In the rebuilt Bulolo settlement
the streets are named after fallen soldiers,
and corner-posts carry plaques bearing
details of each man’s service.
* ♦ * ♦
“Horse”: Even after all these years
there still seem to be some relics along
the overland to Cape York for histori-
cally-minded blokes to play with. Last
time I did the trip Army-style one of
the drivers found an old Martini gun-
barrel and mechanism. Can’t be sure of
the location, but according to the maps
we had it was either the St. George or
the Little Kennedy River, Whatever its
name, it was dry but for an occasional
stinking waterhole. The relic was found
in the river-bed ; we cleaned and oiled
the mechanism but couldn’t get it to
work. It .was a single-barrelled breach-
loading gun, apparently with a smooth
bore, about .40 calibre. We reckoned
it might have been a relic of the Jardine
brothers’ trip.
« * * *
“K.H.H.”: Most of us have our
moments of absentmindedness, but I
“dips me lid” to the high-ranking
R.A.A.F. wallah who visited the Aus-
tralian Sunderland squadron in England
early in the war. Up for a flight, the
wallah said he’d take over the controls
The trip ending, he started to put the
Sunderland down on a land-base. The
sergeant sitting beside him leaned across
and said “Don’t you think, sir, it would
be better to land this type of aircraft on
Southhampton water?”. The wallah did
so. At the door of the kite, he turned
back and said “Thank you, sergeant, for
the tactful way in which you stopped me
making an incredible mistake.” Then
he stepped through the door—into the
water.
STRONG AND SATISFYING.
“The ‘Sunday Herald’ will raise the standards of
Australian Sunday journalism.... No effort has been
spared to make it a strong and satisfying newspaper.’'
— “S.M.H.” on its latest production.
The opening gambit, bearing an insidious
Suggestion that the present standards yield
Room for improvement, may appear invidious
To past and present workers in the field.
Still, such sly digs and subtle jabs betoken
Little to cause recipients unease;
No journalistic bones are ever broken
By such amenities.
i
They give and take, with all the zest and unction
Of pugs contending in a fistic fray.
Turning the other cheek is scarce a function
Characteristic of the Inky Way.
Few are the pressmen who have never handed
Out punches hard as any that they’ve got,
Buffets as shrewd as Pott may once have landed
On Slurk—or Shirk on Pott.
Strong pens strong journals make—there’s no
denying
An aphorism everyone believes —
But what it takes to make them “satisfying”
I’ll venture is another pair of sleeves.
A curious epithet wherewith to flatten
Opponents out! It takes the eye but still
How many things are guaranteed to fatten
That dp no more than fill!
Can any sheet, whatever wide expanses
It covers in the way of news and views,
Study the multitude of tastes and fancies
Of all it aims to interest or amuse?
What one approves, the next with party bias
One sees dismissing with contemptuous snorts,
And items which might edify the pious
Scouted by dead-game sports,
Herels to you anyway! There’s none too clanny
To grudge you entry or deny you room.
Who knows but what we’ll yet be blessing
Granny
For lightening a bit of Sabbath gloom.
Bring satisfaction —all you can contrive —to
Our markedly heterogeneous throng,
And, mindful of your promise, ever strive to
Be strong —but not too strong!
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


“sft. 2”: It may be true, as Dr.
Alexis Carrel and other eminent authori-
ties aver, that the mantle of genius very
rarely descends on anyone much over
Napoleon’s size, but lack of inches can
be a sad disadvantage in the jungle of
urban manners. The other day I was
inoffensively sipping a beer in a steam-
ing city hostelry when I unintentionally
jostled the bloke next to me. He being a
hairy-armed 13-stoner, I hastily apolo-
gised. “All right, mate,” he said mag-
nanimously. “Can’t be helped.” Then
an even bigger fellow loomed up on the
other side of him. “What about me?”
he demanded, “Y’ bumped him and he
bumped me. Are y’ going to apologise
to me, too?” “I never touched you,” I
said mildly. “Didn’t, eh?” he said, and,
extending an arm like a tree-trunk,
reached past the reasonable bloke and
grabbed my tie in one great list and
filled my eye with the other, while Hairy
Arms continued placidly to drink his
beer. Then the broken-nosed barman,
the third-largest man in the pub, leaped
the bar and with a “That’s enough of
that!” seized me by the lapels and shoved
me out through the swing-doors.
Cautiously going back for my hat X saw
the three big fellows drinking together.
“Them little blokes are always too
cocky,” the biggest fellow said. “It’s
their inferiority complex,” the other
drinker contributed. I sneaked away,
desperately wishing I were Napoleon,
working off my feeling of inferiority on
a few thousand wooden-headed guards-
men.
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Ike Hollar”: Perhaps he has run
short of chalk. Anyway, a fanatic
who for ages has marked our pave-
ments with portentous religious phrases
has now turned to vocal effort. He
“We just COULDN’T break the regulations, Edgar. What about
a theatre?”
will enter a crowded shop and blare
something like “Prepare to meet thy
God”; then, after a grim survey of the
startled faces, he vanishes. No doubt his
idea is that he has done enough; his
appearance will cause people to think. He
is right. As the startled crowd in the
shop he had invaded was recovering from
its surprise recently a flapper remarked,
“He is probably advertising a picture.”
“Repatriate”: Nowadays whenever a
youth comes before the court charged
with anything from the stealing of a
hairpin to making a false declaration as
to his age so that he can get a drink in
a pub, his crime is blamed on to “the
pictures.” Apparently things are not so
in Scotland. Glasgow “Bulletin” recently
reported a youth charged with breaking
and entering. The magistrate asked him
where he got the idea for his crime.
Without batting an eyelid the lad replied,
“I read it in a book in the public library.”
Perhaps we had better ask our legislators
to close all such dens of iniquity to
children before the evil spreads to this
country.
* * * *
“Bagot”: The home of my workmate,
George, is ruled by his mother-in-law.
For the sake of his wife and peace he
has surrendered just about all a married
man’s rights except one; he opfeus a
bottle whenever thirst moves him. The
other night the old girl and her daughter
were leaving for an evening out when
George, elated at the prospect of having
temporary command of his castle, ven-
tured a mild joke, “I might have some
guests while you’re away,” he remarked.
Then, seeing the raised eyebrows of the
woman, he explained feebly, “Er —yes,
a couple of bottles, you know,” His
in-law’s jaw shot out. “Guests?” she
snapped. “You mean permanent
boarders! ”
* * * *
“Beta”: Regularly I put myself in the
clutches of Sydney’s worst barber. Once
a month I stride out of his dingy
suburban shop looking like a poodle
freshly clipped by an amateur. But. the
ordeal gets me two ounces of tobacco a
week for being classified as a regular,
A couple of bottles of beer? Easy.
Drop in on Monday for a schooner
whether you feel like it or not, make
straight for the lady you know gives the
beer tickets out on Fridays, plonk two
bob down on the bar and give the pass-
word, “One for yourself, dear, and keep
the change,” then grin good-humoredly
when informed “No tickets till to-
morrow,” Repeat the performance on
Tuesday and again on Friday, when you
collect your bottles. It has only cost you
3s. for beer you probably didn’t want,
plus 3s, for Hebe, plus the cost of the
bottles, and you have the clear conscience
bf a man who refuses to countenance
blackmarketing.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: I am still spry
enough to escape being branded a crusted
old codger, and I am firm in my belief
that, compared with the men who were
boys when I was a boy, the present-day
youngsters are a bunch of pansies.
Scientifically-minded, perhaps, and they’d
lose us in a quiz session as easily as we’d
have lost them in those wild chases from
the melon-patch with the knife-wielding
Chinee in murderous pursuit. I think
the talkies have had much to do witji
quietening youth. You have to keep
strictly to the job in hand to sort out
the syllables that float from the screen
to drop, mangled, a row in front of
you. At the silent flicks we sang, whistled
and cat-called, loved our lasses and
fought our foes, hurled tomatoes and
peanut-shells, and replied to the advice,
abuse and threats of the adult patrons.-
And we never missed a line. And what
has become of that practice indulged in
by all our suburban theatres —the list
of names, screened at the commencement
of the show, of youths who were barred
from the theatre? I haven’t seen such
a list for years. Do you see kids wagging
it from school now? They want to go
there.
• * * •
“H.W.M.”: Tm about fed up with
women. I was standing perfectly still
up against the building-line at a King’s
Cross intersection, when a woman tore
round the corner like a scared cat gnd
bumped into me. She abused me in
most inelegant language and finished up
by saying, “Why the hell don’t you look
“ ....and the prince fell in love with a beautiful princess ."
where you’re going?” Next day on a
tram I stood up to let ,a young woman
with her arms full of baby sit down. It
was bad enough when she failed to say
“Thank you,” but I could have pushed
her off the car when I noticed it was
not a baby she was carrying but an
outsize in dolls. Next woman I rise for
will have, to produce the baby’s birth-
certificate first.
* * * •
“Pawang”; A Victorian country
doctor was called out to a woman ( who
was having a fit of hysterics. When he
walked into the house there she was per-
fectly stiff, lying on a sofa surrounded
by her distraught relations. “Out you
go,” he said, “and leave me with her.”
As soon as they were alone in the room
she gave up the tantrums, as patients
usually do in these cases, but she was ex-
hausted by her struggles. The g.p. picked
her up and carried her into her bedroom.
As he went to lay her on the bed he
tripped and fell on top of her and she
instantly went off in another fit of
hysterics. The doctor .was called out to
the same woman a few nights later and
his modern children shouted after him:
“Look out you don’t trip again, dad.”
* * * *
“Helldud”: Some years ago a venerable
rogue put a swift one over the P.M.G.
What’s more, he put it over several times.
On no fewer than six occasions he
stumbled into trenches dug for cables
and was “injured,” despite the fact that
the trenches were claimed to have been
safely barricaded. His modus operandi
was to get into the trench, wait for some-
one to pass by, then call out, groan,
pretend to be injured and collect a witness
in his rescuer. He collected compensa-
tion every time, and several officials were
disciplined on his account. Eventually
many employees got to know the unfor-
tunate stumbler by sight, and unluckily
for him one of them, a watchman, saw
him break and remove a barrier prior to
staging his seventh performance. Waiting
till he was comfortably settled in the
trench the watchman descended upon
him, and in the subsequent trial the old
rascal was hit for a fine sufficiently
solid to knock all profit off former ven-
tures.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Clooter”: A statement by the Vice-
Chancellor of Adelaide Uni. to a
teachers’ conference in that city put it that
“it was on record that the headhunters of
Borneo died out when headhunting was
forbidden.” This profound conclusion,
of course, mustn’t be taken literally, or
at least we may hope not, for the gentle-
man could hardly have meant that the
people who did the headhunting ceased
to exist when the sport was outlawed. He
meant that the practitioners died out,
which is what happened in more civilised
parts to horse-tram drivers, cinema-
theatre pianists and breeders of fighting
gamecocks. It is happening on a new
aspect in this country: Since “Labor”
Governments have forbidden work as a
means of production, both workers and
production are-dying out.
* * .. * *
“Tummas McNark”: I’d believe a lot
more things published in newspapers if
only these reporter chaps wouldn’t con-
tradict themselves. For instance, I read
the other day where a Mrs. Gretchen
Finletter, wife of an American envoy to
Britain, oh telling the American Embassy
that she wished to speak at a meeting,
was told that she could not discuss re-
ligion, politics, the British Government,
the TJ.S. Government, President Truman,
Governor Dewey, the Western Union, the
Brussels Pact, the Berlin air-lift, Marshall
Aid or steel-nationalisation. As an ex-
ample of how touchy some people are
and how free speech really is, the story
had its point. Then it went on that the
lady asked, “What can I talk about?”
That settled it. Whoever heard of a
lady being, stumped for something to talk
about? Hadn’t she or a relative or a
friend ever had an operation, for in-
stance?
♦ * * ♦
“V, Cluse”; Your female trickster has
certain advantages over her male counter-
part. If a cove appeared at your door-
way in his shirt-tails saying that he lost
his pants you could hand over any old
pair and that would be that. Our suburb
was recently invaded by a young woman
with a similar complaint. Now no
woman would fail a sister in such a
predicament, no woman would hand over
anything but a clean and whole garment,
and nobody would be likely to seek visual
corroboration of the complaint. In a
few hours’ work she must have collected
enough of the things to stock whatever
lair she inhabits and begin her advertising
of goods for sale.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: I am past being tricked by
the posters of the Sydney afternoon
papers, but when the Parramatta “Cum-
berland Argus” announced “Freak Quads
Born in Diggers’ Hall” I rushed in for
a copy of the paper. The freak quads
were four tortoiseshell kittens, each born
with 24 toes instead of the usual 20.
♦ . * * *
“Melbn”: Victorian Chief Secretary
Leggett said recently that many hotel-
keepers were escaping penalties for closing
dining-rooms and bars to the public be-
cause of the reluctance of people to give
sworn evidence in court. Well, who can
blame them? Melbourne Bungs have be-
come so autocratic that some of them
won’t serve beer to a customer if they
don’t like the color of his necktie.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
“Taswegian”: If “B.A.’s” dates are
correct (B. 8/12/’4B), Tasmania beat the
mainland in establishing a felt-hat in-
dustry. In 1824 a man named Munro
started to make hats from the rabbit-
skins in a factory in Bathurst-street,
Hobart. It was later taken over by
Richard Cleburne, who had six men
working for him. The hats sold at 10s.;
English felt hats cost £3. By 1834 there
were three Hobart factories making hats,
one using chiefly silver-rabbit skins,
♦ ♦ * ♦
“Hamer”: It was not sheer goodness
of heart that prompted “Pongo’s”
Woollahra cottage-builder to give a bath
in the washshed in with his structures (B.
22 y /12/’4B). Following an agitation that
every house in Australia should have a
bath, some councils decided for that
policy, as far as their section of Aus-
tralia was concerned. Others went further
and ordered that landlords should instal
baths in old houses; a large number
rushed to comply before the matter was
tested in the Courts, which decided that
the councils’ powers were limited to new
dwellings. But no order was made as to
where the baths were to be placed ; they
got into all sorts of queer places, includ-
ing, in a couple of houses of my experi-
ence, the cupboards under the stairs. A
built-in enclosure on a back verandah was
the more usual arrangement.
A WELL-BALANCED COMMUNITY.
“The population of Australia on June 30, 1948,
according to the Commonwealth Statistician, was
7,710,229—ma1es 3,866,123, females 3,844,}06,”
A nicely-balanced wad of population
It surely looks, on paper anyway,
And one may doubt if any other nation
Such reassuring figures could display.
Note the distinction here pur land annexes,
Another feather for her cap to claim,
The country where the tallies of the sexes
Are just about the same.
On newly-settled shores, where sounds of axe and
Pickaxe are heard on lonely plains and hills,
There’s always been a plenitude of Jacks and
A corresponding scarcity of Jills.
In older lands, it’s safe to be asserted,
The converse holds. England alone provides
More than a million more of bloused and skirted
Beings than those in strides.
The world is full, as anybody viewing
The same will justifiably conclude,
Of bachelors who fain would go a-wooing
And wistful spinsters waiting to be wooed.
The trouble is that in some place or other
Nature, I think malignantly, contrives
A glut of would-be husbands —in another
A glut of would-be wives.
What ho! You immigrants who find it cumber-
some to endure existence where and when
Men for so long have managed to outnumber
Women, or women have outnumbered men,
Here waits a happier land where, so to speak,
you’ll
Find things more orderly and comme il jaut,
One where the Adams and the Eves are equal,
Or pretty nearly so.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


m
EXPERIENCE
in the administration of
Pastoral A Farm Properties
5;_ Trasle ?*J Executorsland Agency Co. Ltd., Australia’s oldest Trustee Company, has
s£ide association with the administration of rural properties. It provides: .
Efficient management.
Safeguards the interests of dependants.
Provides ample security for performance of trusts.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman) ; Sir Lennon
Raws, C.8.E.; O. S. Colman, C.8.E.; Sir Alan Newton,
M.S., Melb., F.R.C.S., Eng.; G. D. Young.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
I BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY,
401 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £964,692.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Dr. H. J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.A.C.P. (Chairman);
John Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8., K.8.E.,
C.M.G., D. 8.0.; David Wilson, M.A., L.L.8., K.C.
N.B.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French,
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
THE WILD CAT COLUMN
Bradford Cotton Mills
Bradford Cotton and Subsidiaries.*
, Dividends 1 s To Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. Reserves.serves.t
£ £ £ £
Added capital assets reserve, £47,190.. 203,304
1941.. 59,097 6 p.e. 10 p.e. 55,381 3,716 207,020
Forfeited shares reserve, £8 .. .. 207,028
1942.. 86,133 6 p.e. 10 p.e. 70,948 14,185 221,213
1943.. 103,820 6 „ 10 „ 83;372 20,448 241,661
1944.. 107,334 6 „ 10 „ 83,872 23,962 265,623
1945.. 106,483 6 „ 10 „ 83,874 23,109.288,732
1946.. 100,659 6 „ 10 „ 83,374 17,285 306,017
1947.. 114,492 6 „ 10 „ 89,079 25,413 331,430
1948.. 116,791 6 „ 10 „ 94,085 22,706 354,136
* Including outside interests. f Reduced here by
value of intangibles (£2863), and excluding de-
preciation reserve (now £670,893).
This well-handled 21-year-old and its
half-dozen subsidiaries are the backbone
of Australia’s infant cotton industry, in
which there is still plenty of room for
expansion, provided the Government
doesn’t cripple the chances with measures
that force costs and prices to uncompeti-
tive levels. The co. has made the most
of its opportunities. Paid capital advanced
from £115,906 in 1935, when the public
became interested, to £894,000-odd in
1942, and remained steady until shortly
before the close of accounts in 1946,
when 370,945 new £1 ords. were issued,
one for four at par, to help buy new
plant, etc., to expand and widen produc-
tion. Owing to delays in delivery, the
last 7s. 6d. on the new shares was not
gathered until Nov. 1, 1948. It lifted paid
capital to £1,278,443 in 60,000 first and
93,104 second prefs., both 6 p.e. cumu-
lative, and the balance ords. And share-
holders as at January 28 are being in-
vited to take up a further 564,871 £1
ords. (one-for-two) at a premium of 13s.
each.
Operations of the group range from
the spinning of cotton yarns to manu-
facture of all kinds of cotton drills,
tweeds, denims, ducks, motor-tyre fabrics
and web equipment as well as dyeing,
waterproofing, rotproofing, finishing and
sanforising the products. The subsidi-
aries include Bradford Cotton Spinning
Mills, Bradford Cotton Weaving Mills
and Austral Silk and Cotton Mills (all in
,Vic.), C. and D. Mills and Sanforising
Services (N.S.W.), and Bradford Cotton
Mills (N.Z.), in which Felt and Textiles
is also interested. Another offshoot,
Plexon Pty., was formed last year to
manufacture plastic-covered fibre, but is
not yet in production, owing to difficulties
in securing equipment and materials from
the dollar area. And two new subsidi-
aries have just been formed to operate
mills for which plant is now coming for-
ward.
All miffs in the group recorded in-
creased turnover last term, but none
reached maximum output, because of the
40-hour week, shortage of labor and
materials (especially dyestuffs and other
chemicals) and power failures. After
allowing for depreciation (£78,052, up
£1329) and taxation (£57,416, down
£5592), the combined net result was £2299
stronger at £116,791. That covered pref.
requirements and 12.6 p.e. on average
ord. capital as against 13.2, 12.3, 13.1,
13.2, 12.7 and 12.9 p.e. back to 1942. The
div. was kept at 10 p.e., and has been for
the last nine years. In addition to the
lay-by shown in the table there is a de-
preciation reserve of £670,893.
The £184,810 of fresh capital gathered
during the year, together with surplus
earnings, etc., and an extra £325,464 from
sundry creditors, went into freeholds (up
£24,556), plant (up £187,922), stocks (up
£169,471), book-debts (up £142,194) and
cash, etc. (up £105,996):
Consolidated Figures.
1941. 1946. 1947. 1948.
Paid capital £674,482 £935,351 £955,050 £1,139,860
Outside inter-
ests , t 153 156 162 12,657
Sundry
creditors 356,133 462,264 540,337 865,801
Tax reserve,
etc. .. 45,940 90,585 93,251 89,856
Freeholds.. 348,928 401,296 437,944 462,500
Plant, etc. 558,565 687,228 1,264,085 1,451,907
Stock, etc. 310,029 521,946 564,924 734,395
Sundry
debtors 102,242 204,209 193,758 835,952
Cash, etc. 1,903 21,382 102,178 208,174
When the books closed there was 12s. 9d,
of outside money (including tax provision)
at risk in the business for every pound
belonging to shareholders, excluding the
depreciation reserve.
Since the close of accounts the subsidy
on cotton has been withdrawn, and mill-
men have had to buy the stuff in world
markets at very, high figures, which are
now being reflected in the selling price of
fabrics. Meanwhile, the patience of mill-
men is being taxed by the procrastination
of price-control and other authorities.
Since June 30 last the co.’s other costs
of production have risen by the equiva-
lent of £35,000 p.a. That was before the
recent lift in the basic wage, which will
further bump up outgoings. To help over-
come the labor problem, and so quicken
output, the parent’s main mill at Sydney
is to be moved to the country. This will
be a costly operation, resulting in some
loss of production, but the board is con-
fident that results will, in the long run,
justify the decision.
At 50s. (535. 9d, a couple of months
ago) the net price of the ords., after
exercising the rights, i§ 445. 7d., giving a
return of 4.4 p.c, on a 10 p.c, div. basis.
When all the money on the new issue is
in, pref. divs. and 10 p.c. to the ords. will
call for £178,207, or £63,416 more profit
than was claimed last term, and, of
course, there will be £902,037 of fresh
capital and premium money (which should
mean enlarged plant capacity) at work.
The first and second prefs. at 30s. and
295. 9d. respectively each yield approx.
4 p.c, Including the new issue, net
tangible cover is £39 13s. lOd. firsts, £24
18s. 6d, seconds and 265. 4d, ords.
Taubmans, Ltd.
Taubmans and Subsidiaries.*
r— Dividends
c , _ Pref. To Re- Re-
aepu, Front. 5 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
H’ll 6 i 5OO 13 P- c -= 51,852 20,844 255,876
IMB 5000 10 ’> » 39,887 26,144 282,020
1943,. 5OOO 10 „ „ 39,886 17,840 299,860
» 44 > 872 18,184 318,044
1?’B 8 6000 13l i*» » 4 *,872 21,006 839,050
1946. . 94,738 5000 13} „ „ 54,844 34,889 873,939
Net share-premiums, £13,847 .. 887.786
1947. .163,742 5000 15 p.c. = 64,999 89,027 476,813
Share-premiums, £111,776 ... ..588,589
Goodwill increased, £B6B .. 587,721
deductions reserves, £B7 .. '.. 587,634
1948. .207,231 5000 17}p.c. = 96,390105,841 693,475
After eliminating outside interests.
After two record years for output
Taubmans still enjoys a sellers’ market;
the main problems are on the pro-
duction side. While the linseed shortage
has eased for paint-makers, lack of tin-
plate and some pigments continues.
Higher operating costs are forcing prices
up, but the general thirst for paint is
far from satisfied. Some official restraints
upon its use for “non-essential” purposes
remain in force.
Among the big Australian paint-makers
Taubmans is practically alone in having
its shares publicly listed, but like many
of the others the co. is now largely
financed with British capital. In 1930 a
controlling interest was bought by the
big English organisation of Pinchin,
Johnson and Associates, which had just
previously absorbed Docker Bros, and
Borthwicks, Starting as a small family
business in 1902, Taubmans had thrived
in the face of strong overseas competition.
Its progress has been no less rapid since
1930, when paid capital stood at £149,100.
All the other Australasian interests of
Pinchin, Johnson have been taken over
as subsidiaries, the range of products has
been widened and new techniques intro-
duced.
In Sydney the main factory at St. Peters
has been supplemented with works at
Villawood for turning out insecticides
and special chemicals. A Melbourne
factory was opened five years ago and
new ones are being erected in Brisbane
and Adelaide. To meet expanding busi-
ness, an issue of 121,923 new ords. at a
255. premium was made early last term.
A bonus issue of 40,642 shares at
the same time raised paid capital to
£668,989, which includes £lOO,OOO in
5 p.c. prefs.:
Taubmans, Ltd., and Subsidiaries.
1939. 1946. 1947. 1948.
Paid capital.. £398,867 £498,867 £506,417 £668,989
Outside
interests .. 48,350 52,988 93,927 105,063
Creditors 7 „ 7 $ 86,411 211,656 1 S9Q
Tax prov’n) | 108,065 166,525 J 467,829
Freeholds .. 212,478 205,270 279,053 301 474
Plant .. 76,989 133,326 216,088 272,675
Stocks .. 300,473 496,085 710,694 1,061,340
Debtors .. 186,969 186,625 279,766 401,269
Cash, etc. .. 7,564 138,865 14,343 3,886
The new money helped to finance a
50 p.c. rise (£350,646) in stocks besides
additions of £121,503 to debtors’ balances
and £79,008 to fixed assets. Other assist-
ance came from the extra £89,648
advanced by outsiders (most of it bank
overdraft), and the big undistributed
profit of £105,841.
No details of tax, depreciation or other
expenditure are offered in the consoli-
dated accounts. Last term’s declared
profit of £207,231 represented 30 p.c. on
the increased ordinary capital after meet-
ing pref. commitments, as against corres-
ponding figures of 39.2, 22.5 and 16.5
p.c. back to 1945. The lift in dividend
from 15 to 17i p.c. was anticipated on
’Change, where the ords. have been fairly
steady at 945, for some months (com-
pared with 81s. 6d. a year ago). Yield
at that figure is 3.7 p.c., and the shares
have 445. sd, net tangible cover. The
prefs. at 255. each yield 4 p.c.
Hancock & Gore, Ltd. (Brisbane)
t "-Dividends s, Nomi-
-Ist 2nd nal Re-
Sept., Profit. Pref. Pref. Ord. Total, serves.*
£ p.c. p.c. p.c. £ £
1938 .. 16,894 8 6 7 14,279 19,114
1939 .. 15,947 8 6 7 13,617 21,444
1940 .. 16,419 8 6 7 13,945 23,918
1941 .. 14,435 8 6 7 14,030 24,323
1942 .. 18,231 8 6 8 15,479 27,075
1943 .. 19,083 8 6 8 15,479 30,679
Profit, sale of assets, £10,261 .. 40,940
1944 . . 15,589 8 6 8 15,479 41,050
Profit, sale of assets, £3144 .. 44,194
Unexplained addition to res., £5OOO 49,194
1945 .. 17,421 8 6 8 15,479 51,136
Profit, sale of assets, £389 .. .. 51,525
Unexplained addition to res., £6500 58,025
1946 .. 19,874 8 6 8 15,479 62,420
Profit, sale of assets, £1531 .. .. 63,951
1947 .. 21,027 8 6 8 15,479 69,499
Profit, sale of assets, £3804 .. 73,303
Unexplained addition to res., £BOOO 81,303
1948 .. 25,169 8 6 8 15,479 90,993'
* Reserves are subject to goodwill (now £194) and
timber rights (amount not specified).
For shareholders of Hancock and Gore
a pertinent question at this stage is
whether anything will be recovered of the
£50,000 paid abortively in connection
with timber concessions in the Bulolo
Valley. Following acquittal of the two
Gardens and R, Parer on a charge of
conspiring with E. Farrell to cheat and
defraud Hancock and Gore, Ltd., of large
sums of money, the co.’s managing-
director, H. R, Hancock, said counsel
would be consulted as to whether civil
action should be taken to recover the
£50,000. Farrell was .too ill to attend the
trial, and the Crown has decided not to
proceed with the case against him. No
further announcement has yet been made
by or on behalf of the co. Meanwhile,
the Federal Government decided to
appoint a Royal Commission to inquire,
among other things, as to what were the
real transactions between the two
Gardens, Parer, Farrell and the co., or
any of its representatives, in relation to
the timber rights in question. And there
the matter stands for the present.
Between the balancing-dates of Sep-
tember 30, 1944 and 1945, Hancock and
Gore’s accounts had shown an interesting
movement. On the first date, an item
styled simply “Stock in hand” was entered
at £65,363. Twelve months later, with the
wording broadened to “Stock in hand and
timber rights,” the amount was greater
by £58,417; and this wording has been
retained ever since. The £58,417, together
with an increase of £18,026 in freeholds,
was met mainly by addition of £69,057 to
the overdraft, which was substantially re-
duced over the next two years:
Paid capital— 1944. 1945. 1947. 1948.
Preference £56,000 £55,000 £55,000 £55,000
Ordiiyiry .. 144,748 144,748 144,748 144,748
Overdraft ~ 5,638 74,695 5,709 19,579
Creditors ~ 52,514 42.623 1
Tax provision 17,059 18,076 j 100 > 545 101,626
Freeholds .. 42,749 60,775 49,695 53,126
Plant • • 62,258 55,845 50,862 47,550
Shares in sub-
sidiaries .. 73,597 73,597 73,737 73,837
Shares in other
e° s • •• 5,733 5,708 5,708 5,708
Timber rights- 6 — 63 } 123,780 120,344 150,625
Debtors . . 72,788 69,245 80,191 86,386
Cash • • . . 786 787 512 310
Goodwill .. 474 2,931 243 194
Last term £13,870 was added to the over-
draft to help finance the growth of
£30,281 in stocks, etc. Excluding share-
holdings, more-or-less liquids exceeded
outside liabilities by £116,116 when the
books closed. The figure includes an un-
specified amount of timber rights in the
stocks item.
One of Queensland’s biggest saw-
millers and timber-merchants, the
45-year-old Hancock and Gore manu-
factures joinery, mouldings, cases and
plywoods. The main works are in two
yards at Woolloongabba (Brisbane), while
forestry sawmills are located at Towns-
ville, Jimna, Landsborough and Emu
Vale. The co.’s largest subsidiary is the
timber-milling business of Brown and
Broad, Ltd., which is almost fully-owned.
Another offshoot, Timber Corporation,
Ltd., trades in central and north Queens-
land. A third is engaged in house-build-
ing, and the fourth handles transport.
Since the war there has, naturally, been
a strong demand for timber, and with
many overseas exporters still providing
less than before the war the board’s
problem has been to obtain adequate
supplies. Last month, however, the
chairman announced that, “as a result of
arrangements made, timber supplies are
assured for a number of years with the
assistance of supplies from outside Aus-
tralia.”
Turnover, gross and net profits all
established new records during the
term. The gross figure (£129,825)
was 8.5 p.c. better than in 1947,
and 1 the net profit of £25,169 —which was
supplemented by an unexplained addition
of £BOOO to reserves, the third and largest
since 1944 —represented 14.7 p.c. on
ordinary capital after paying the pref.
dividends, compared with 11.9, 11 and
9.3 p.c. in the three previous years.
Capital consists of 144,748 ords.,
30,000 8 p.c. first prefs. and 25,000 6 p.c.
seconds. The shares don’t appear very
often on the Brisbane ’Change, where
they are listed. At the present buying
quote of 325. 6d. the ords. yield 5 p.c. on
the basis of last term’s easily-covered
8 p.c. dividend. Net asset backing of
355. 9d. a share on book-values excludes
goodwill, but is subject to any intangible
elements in “timber rights.”
Lamson Paragon, Ltd.
To Ro-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1942.. 17,988 10 p.c. = 15,000 2,988 80,838
1943.. 21,086 10 „ „ 15,000 6,086 86,924
1944.. 22,645 10 „ „ 15,000 7,645 94,569
1945.. 20,767 10 „ „ 15,000 5,767 100,336
Reserves capitalised, £12,500 .. 87,836
Share premiums, £6,250 .. . 94,086
Unexplained addition, £4OOO .. 98,086
1946.. 23,502 10 p.c. = 17,977 5,525 103,611
Share premiums, £23,438 .. 127,049
1947.. 29,879 10 p.c. = 19,531 9,848 136,897
1948.. 29,132 10 „ „ 24,023 6,109 142,007
Shareholders in this 52-year-old have
nothing to complain about. The co.
specialises in manufacture of all kinds of
office equipment and commerfcial
stationery, and owns factories in all the
States except Tasmania, where a sales
branch at Hobart looks after the local
market. For 20 years after the public
became interested in 1910 divs. averaged
9.75 p.c. Slump was ushered in with an
empty basket in 1930, but 4 p.c. was paid
in 1931, and a point was added in each
of the next half-dozen years, raising the
rate to 10 p.c., and it has remained steady
at that level since.
Certainly share premiums have taken
some of the gilt off the gingerbread, but
this was partly restored by two bonus


CXy? /f) flit) /
*•***s
«
*
&
/)
&
A
ZL
SCaO
GdftSfcb 9nnM&
/«
6%31
r // :\X^f
. ~j. -
;rf
■y
•White label"
4 Fine Scotch whisky
or RARE ACE
JoImDewar&SoDsL-
DISTILLERS
WtSrmm imr.tniu
ŵ
DEmn’s;
“White label" i
lamm SCOTCH Wtuhj'
FOR SALE.
Mining Machinery located North
Queensland, including two Krupp
Filters. Enquiries to —
Machinery, C/o Box 569 J,
G.P.0., Brisbane.
Tenders.
ADDRESSED to the Secretary, Solomon
Islands Development Co., Ltd., Box 543,
G.P.0., Sydney, are invited and will be
received up to 12 Noon, Saturday, 80th
April, 1949, for the purchase of the fol-
lowing coconut plantations properties
situated in the British Solomon Islands
Protectorate i
NEAL ISLAND and small plantation
on mainland.
TETIPARI.
MANNING STRAITS.
LUTEE. I
The highest or any tender not necessarily
accepted. 4 .
Terms with suitable guarantees will be
considered.
Further particulars will be made avail-
able on application.
ADDRESSED to the Secretary, Short-
land Islands Plantations Ltd., Box 543,
G.P.0., Sydney, are invited and will be
received up to 12 Noon, Saturday, 30th
April, 1949, for the purchase of the fol-
lowing coconut plantations properties
situated in the British Solomon Islands
Protectorate: —
LOFUNG.
HARAPA.
KAMALIAI.
The highest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
Terms with suitable guarantees will be
considered.
Further particulars will be made avail-
able on application.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.—Advt.
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
THE AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
TO
GUTHRIDGE
PTY., LIMITED,
10-12 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
“It’s easier to do business
with a man than an address
i .
As my firm’s export manager, I find it pays to
do business with a man and not just an address.
Correspondence is cut to the bone, misunder-
standings are prevented, problems are discussed
and solved right on the spot.
That’s where Speedbird service and 8.0.A.C.’s
more than 72,000 miles of world-wide air routes come in. 8.0.A.C.
usually flies where I want to go, and Speedbird service gets me or
my freight there in a hurry and right on schedule. Arranging my
trips is easy. The local 8.0.A.C. Appointed Agent fixes everything.
No crowds or confusion, and no red tape. Everything goes like
clock-work, but with this important difference : there’s the personal
touch!
About the actual flight . . . it’s good, really good from beginning
to end. If you’re hungry, you can eat wonderful
food —“on the house’’ too. If you’re tired,
the comfortable seats practically lull you to sleep.
Everything and I mean everything reflects
8.0.A.C.’s 30-year-old tradition of Speedbird
service and Speedbird experience.
GREAT BRITAIN • USA • CANADA • MIDDLE EAST • WEST AFRICA
EAST AFRICA • SOUTH AFRICA • PAKISTAN • INDIA • CEYLON • AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND • FAR EAST • JAPAN
8.0.A.C. TAKES GOOD CARE OF YOU
FLY-BOH
Al/AU
Information & Bookings : Qantas Empire Airways, Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Townsville, Cairns, Darwin (General Agents in Australia),
or from Booking Agents in all cities. "
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS EMPIRE
AIRWAYS, TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD. & SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS
Pt
b
✓ _
n
<^l/ »/
/i
In 1942 the Japanese were headed for Australia. Hun-
dreds of tractors belonging to cane farmers were rushed
to build airstrips. First attack on enemy convoys in the
Coral Sea was made by bomber aircraft based on these
aerodromes. Allied naval forces used ports which had
been built by the sugar industry. Land forces in New
Guinea were supplied from these same ports.
srjt:
\
vV
ẁ
w
But for the sugar industry, we would
not have had the ports, railways,
roads, tractors and facilities to help
turn the tide of war in the dark days
of 1942. Today, a healthy and
vigorous population continues to
develop and safeguard Australia s
north eastern coast.
One Queenilander out
of every five depends
on the sugar industry .
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
issues of £12,500 each in 1928
and 1945. And the issue of
118,750 new £1 shares at a
premium of ss. each over the
last three years has been in the
nature of a bonus to share-
holders, because of the high
price the scrip commands in the
market.
Profitable employment was
quickly found for the new share
and premium moneys, and more
besides, in all-round expansion
of the business, including erec-
tion of two new factories —one
at Edmondstown (near Adel-
aide), now in production, and
the other at Kingsgrove (near
Sydney), on which a start was
not made until Sept, last, be-
cause of uncertainties connected
with a Government resumption
of part of the property for road-
way purposes. Here are bal-
ance-sheet figures:—
1939. 1947. 1948.
Paid capital £150,000 £211,978 £281,250
Liabilities 1 „ n ( 76,987 129,341
Tax reserve J zu »' s/ 1 33,151 35,234
Staff fund.. 5,769 10,803 7,877
Premises .. 65,047 81,245 83,952
Plant, etc... 61,516 113,758 149,828
Stock .. 61,864 196/849 263,667
Book debts 48,460 78,810 101,287
Cash and
sundries .. 1,138 1,882 2,557
Shares .. 21,165 21,000 27,5^3
Last year’s £69,272 of new capi-
tal, together with an extra
£52,354 from outsiders as well
as surplus earnings, went mainly
into plant (up £36,070), stocks
(up £66,818) and book-debts (up
£22,477). There was an im-
provement of £45,019 in the
more-or-less liquid surplus
(£222,619). No hint is given as
to what the Kingsgrove factory
is likely to cost, or whether
shareholders will be asked for
more.
Gross earnings (£175,726)
stepped up £22,527, Including
provision for depreciation
(£14,114, up £3303), taxation
(£20,700, down £4300) and the
staff fund (£9123, up £4926),
exes. (£146,594) gobbled all the
gain and £247 besides. On aver-
age capital the net result
(£29,132) was 12.1 p.c. as against
15, 13, 13.8, 15.1 and 14 p.c.
back to 1943. On capital as it
now sthnds 10 p.c. will call for
only £lOO7 less profit than was
shown last term. New money,
however, takes time to develop
full earning-power, and deinand
for the co.’s products continues
to run well ahead of production.
The market expresses its con-
fidence in the future of the busi-
ness by pricing the pound shares
at 525., at which figure the re-
turn is 3.8 p.c. on a 10 p.c, div,
basis. Visibly the cover is
30s. Id. in net tangibles.
Claude Albo de Bernales
Claude Albo de Bernales,
Westralian mining adventurer,
is in the news again. This time
Britain’s senior Official Re-
ceiver, H. P. Naughton, has de-
cided not to institute criminal or
misfeasance proceedings against
him. Not that it was doubted
that misfeasance proceedings, if
taken, would succeed; but they
would be costly, and it might be
difficult to reap the reward of
any judgment obtained against
De Bernales. On these grounds
the Receiver reluctantly decided
that it would be ill-advised to
risk such funds as he had in
hand.
Following stormy meetings of
shareholders, proposed schemes
of reconstruction, a Board of
Trade inquiry and Stock Ex-
change ban, six of the De Ber-
nales Westralian goldmining cos.
were compulsorily wound up by
order of the Court in London in
March, 1941. They were Com-
monwealth Mining and Finance,
Great Boulder Mining and
Finance, Murchison Gold De-
velopment, Beryl Gold Corp.,
North Kalgurli United and
Meekatharra Gold Mines. The
first five were registered in Lon-
don in 1934 and the sixth a year
later.
Briefly, the complicated story
—told from time to time in these
pages —begins with Australian
Machinery and Investment Co.,
a concern in which De Bernales
was the guiding influence, buy-
ing at small cost mines which
had been unworked for a num-
ber of years. These mines were
then sold to the London cos.
already mentioned at greatly-
inflated prices, and the profit
made by A.M.I. on the trans-
actions was not disclosed to
prospective shareholders in the
purchasing cos. And, accord-
ing to the Board of Trade in-
quiry, in some cases engineers
could not make even superficial
examinations of the mines;
underground investigation was
precluded by the waterlogged
state of the workings. Still,
despite the absence of dividends,
scares in the now-in-liquidation
concerns at one time rose to
substantial premiums in the
market.
An action for damages, in
which Apley Estates, Ltd., is the
chief plaintiff, is still pending
against De Bernales and others
for breaches of the English
Companies Act, including flota-
tion misrepresentations. As far
back as 1943 the whole tangled
situation was described by Lord
Justice Goddard as one of “very
exceptional complexity.”
De Bernales, who always lived
with a show of pomp and luxury,
is now reported to be seriously
ill.
“O.B.”: Advocates of a
Commonwealth bonus to stimu-
late gold production, of which
the Westralian Chamber of
Mines is one, argue that such a
gift would give a return like the
proverbial bread cast upon the
waters. The fundamental diffi-
culties against which the gold-
mining industry everywhere has
contended since the war are well
known. Costs have risen con-
sistently, while.the price of gold
has remained fixed. This has
already forced some marginal
producers out of business, led
tp a wholesale recalculation of
payable ore reserves and reduced
throughput, which itself tends to
further bump up costs. The
meagre assistance the Federal
Government is prepared to
grant, namely sufficient to allow
4 p.c. on issued share capital,
provided the head value of ore
treated does not fall below and
the allowance for development
does not exceed the 1947 level,
wiU do little to save a wasting
and speculative enterprise like
goldmining, in which future
production goes far beyond
purely investment considerations.
Gold-producers everywhere are
getting the worst of two worlds,
yet the more of the precious
metal that can be produced the
easier will be the trading position
of the country concerned with
the hard-currency area, notably
U.S.A.
* * * ♦
“O.B.”: Westralia’s latest
gold find is at Ongerup, a wool
and wheat settlement near the
South Coast, between Albany
and the copper-gold field of
Rayensthorpe. Two “samples”
from a lode in granite country
now being prospected by a
couple of dingo-trappers are
said to have assayed 6oz. and
240 z. a ton respectively. Picked
ore can assay anything.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Joe Blake”: The flight of certain
birds, I’ve noted, bears a strong resem-
blance to that of planes, with which I was
once all-too-familiar. Who, watching the
currawong gliding down from the top of
a near-by gum, could mistake the “atti-
tude” of the trusty Anson, in the hands
of a “pupe-pilot,” stretching his glide to
make the runway before stalling, or the
dainty mudlark, taking-off into wind,
climbing straight up for all the world
like the Lysander, which could fly back-
wards in a 50 m.ph. head-wind? Spur-
wing plover, defending their nest, take-
off together, do a climbing circuit for
altitude and recco, and then bear straight
down on the target, giving a burst of
shrill chatter before turning away, just
as the Typhoons and Rockphoons did in
Normandy. Of course, the maggie is
the perfect counterpart of the Spit, in
manoeuvrability and readiness to engage
anything in sight, and with success. Others
are not so easy. For instance, the com-
mon rosella and the Mosquito have a
close similarity in the climb, and galahs,
coming in to the maize patch low-level,
resemble a close box of Marauders on
trouble bent. The starling, dirty brute
though he is, with his long forepart,
short straight wings and “close-up” tail,
is surprisingly like a Mustang, while the
Tiger Moth, beloved of all trainee-pilots,
has its exact counterpart, gliding or aero-
bating, in the pugnacious noisy miner.
* ♦ * *
“Offside”: I see where holiday pea-
pickers earned up to £5 a day this year.
I mind me of the time the Land Army
picked peas out of Camden (N.S.W.).
We’d been on pretty good paddocks for
the first few weeks, but near the end of
the season the boss put us on to a beaut,
—peas straggled up (if you could find
them) among a large and rich assortment
of stinging-nettles, Scotch thistles and
castor-oil plants. The boss decided to
put us on to piecework after the first day.
“Give you some extra cash for Christ-
mas,” he said, and went to see the War
Agricultural Committee about it. That
evening, loading up the peas—we’d
averaged about four bushels each —he
thought that, seeing it was such a bad
patch, he wouldn’t pay us by the bushel
after all. Later we met the W.A. secre-
tary in town, “Did Fodder give you that
rise?” he asked. “You girls should be
doing pretty well at 7s. 6d. a bushel.”
Our wage in those days happened to be
355. a week and keep. From then on
Fodder was “black” to us.
♦ * » *
“Old-timer”: Stoneman is back. He
left town last August .with a swag up,
intending to make his way out by Con-
do bolin and then south into the cool
country for the summer. “It’s no good,” he
says. “The track’s finished. All them empty
shacks we used t’ know has either got
families livin’ in ’em or bin pulled down
an’ built, inter new houses somewhere
else; y’ can’t get a decent camp no more.
If y’ get under a road bridge thumpin’
great ten-ton motor-trucks thunder over
y’r head all night an’ all them old sheds
an’ barns y’ find are chock-a-block with
Wool or wheat or spuds or somethin’ an’
they’re so dead scared y’U set fire to ’em
that they’d shoot y’ if y’ tried t’ get inter
them. Ain’t no drover camps t’ pull in
at; the drovin’s nilly all done be motor-
trucks. If y’ try t’ battle: a town for a
bit o’ tucker y’ get a black look because
everybody knows there’s plenty o’ work.
Even Bill Clarkson’s pub at North Mur-
chison wouldn’t give y’ a handout, an’
you know what Bill was like in the old
days. Yair, the track’s finished, all right.”
I pondered this and remarked, “Y’ must
ha’ got soft, Stoney. What’s wrong with
campin’ in the open, or under some scrub?
An’ surely y’ could ha’ got a handout
at some o’ the homesteads.” Stoneman
looked at me pityingly. “Gripes,” he
snorted. “Don’t y’ know them blokes
on the land ’d kidnap y’ if they could?
They’re so short o’ men a bloke wouldn’t
be safe if they thought he was on the
track. ’Struth, the only way I got back
safe was be travellin’ at night, an’ even
then I had t’ dodge the cockies who heard
about me an’ was guardin’ the roads in
case I come their way. How long since
you bin outback?” “Have a drink,” I
answered.
* * ♦ * ■
“Mat’s Mate”; “Most sensible woman
I ever struck,” said Mat, “was up in
Forbes. It was when I was waitin’ for
you t’ pick me up for that emu-bobbin’
job out on Carrawobbity, an’ I sees in
the local paper where somebody wants
"Take her off! When are the cowboys coming on ?”
a strong bloke t’ lump a few packin’-
cases. When I get t’ the place it’s one
o’ them dress shops an’ I shy off a bit;
then I thinks a few bob might be handy
an’ in I goes. The boss is a grey-haired
woman an’ she wants about twenty cases
full o’ stuff shifted from the yard inter the
store an’ she’s offerin’ thirty bob. I
take it on an’ only got One case moved
when a girl comes inter the yard from
the shop an’ empties a glass. Bit later
one looks out at me. Then the first one
comes out an’ empties another glass.
Then two come out an’ look at me. Then
the boss comes out an’ says, T think it
would be better if you came back tonight
an’ shifted the cases, after my girls are
gone, otherwise I’ll get no work out
of them. Do you mind?’ ‘Mind!’ I
says. ‘Missus, you just saved yourself
from not gettin’ the work done by me.’
So I knock off an’ do the job after clos-
ing-time. Yair, she had plenty o’ sense,
that woman.”
* * * ♦
“Momokan”: “Coin’ to Clermont, eh?”
queried the old-timer. “Great country up
there—but tough.” The new hand looked
at him. “What do you mean —tough?”
“Well, there was a little bloke at the
house I used t’ work at up there, artistic
sort. Painted real well, he did. Only a
young ’un, mind y’, but clever. From
about five years old he used t’ paint
’orses and cows and things. Did ’em
real nice, too. But the funny thing was
a t though he drew cows and ’orses as
lifelike as you like, he always had ’em
eating from trees,” The newchum came
in. “You don’t say! Why was that?
You’d think if he was that smart he’d
have drawn them grazing.” The old-
timer smiled sadly as he reached for his
glass. “That’s what I say. Tough
country. That youngster had never seen
grass!.”
* * * *
“Murray Cod”; .That reference to us
in the Service Department (B. 5/1 / *49)
has raised the temperature of the waters
hereabouts by several degrees, partly by
our blushes when we read that our reputa-
tion is excellent, but more so by our
indignation when you say that our aver-
age length when supplied to cafes is 18in.
May I point out that it is a crime to take
us from the water until we are 18in. long.
The Riverina Amateur Fishermen’s
Association has also annoyed us by try-
ing to get the Chief Secretary to reduce
the limit to 15in., but this is, in some part,
mitigated by its efforts to have net-
fishing banned in inland streams.
* * * *
“Carlyle”: Anglers up that way were
excited when a 121 b. eel measuring 53in.
was caught in the Wimmera River, near
Lake Hindmarsh (Vic.), after a tussle
which lasted 25 minutes. Breeding only
in sea-water, eels are not often seen so far
inland or. north of the Great Divide, and
this is only the third I can recall during
the past 15 years. As it seems probable
that the eel ascended the Moora Valley
channel on its 150-odd mile journey
from the seaboard, many more should be
seen when the journey is made easier by
completion of the Rocklands reservoir
channel.
* * * ♦
“Young Slim”: If The Bulletin is
published as an asbestos edition where
my old man is now he’d have a laugh
over that Yank professor and his psy-
chopathic cows (B. 22/12/’4B). He once
made an experiment with a few cows dur-
ing a drought season at Cunderdin (W.A.).
He read in an American magazine that
if cows were equipped with green-tinted
goggles and let loose on dry, scrubby
feed they would fatten just as well as
those fed on green grass. He reckoned
the things were led well and truly up a
tree, and they were improving daily, but
the boss came across the apparitions, and
when the dust settled down and his miss-
ing teeth Would allow him to talk again,
he gave the old man his time, so that I
never was able to follow the yam to its
conclusion. Would any cocky with an
inquisitive mind care to try it out for me,
reporting fully to this page when a result
is declared?
* * * *
“Coral Cod”: “K.W.R.” (B. 5/1/’49)
needs to watch how he places his bets.
Demamia texilis usually looks for stoush,
and doesnft need any such tricks as
“K.W.R.” plays to make him savage. A
youth in one of the cane-gangs in this
N.Q. area went to fill the water-bag and
met Dein. tex. Before the lad could
jump clear the snake struck twice, and
the punctures were not Sin. apart. The
M.O. said at the inquest, “Bites by
Demamia texilis are invariably fatal.”
♦ * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: A little-known
Australian furniture wood of first rank is
beach honeysuckle, better known to Vic-
torians as the “bottlebrush” of the sea-
fronts. A comparatively soft wood, it is
harder than Oregon but nowhere near as
tough as the hardwoods. When dressed
the grain comes up in rich, red figures,
and it doesn’t need polishing. Two coats
of clear varnish do the trick. The fact
that, these days, honeysuckle in log form
is hard to get in quantities may account
for its lack of commercial use. Years
ago, in South Gippsland pioneering
homes the best furniture was made from
this timber, pit-sawn in the neighbor-
hood and fashioned by bygone furniture-
makers at the homesteads.
* * * *
“Burong”: Admittedly the gannet is a
delight to watch as he| fishes, but I have
seldom seen the bird sit on the water to
feed. Invariably it goes again into the air
and becomes an easy mark for those
pirates the frigate birds. The frigate can-
not dive for fish*—instead, it swoops with
lightning speed on the successful gannet,
and this booby, immediately emitting a
frightened squawk, drops its catch. The
frigate, in a terrific powerdive, picks up
the meal long before it has reached the
water. Why the booby doesn’t fight it
out with the frigate I don’t know, the
former’s sharp, straight beak being a
much more formidable weapon than the
frigate’s curved bill.
* * * ♦
a sidelight on this jarrah-
hardness question, may I point out that
the floor of Parliament House is made of
Westralian jarrah, and to date shows less
wear than the stone. But I have sawn
jarrah that has been no harder than
ordinary redgum.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“S.F.M.”: After discharge from the
forces in 1945, rabbitskins being a high
price. Curly and I decided to make a
quick cheque. We got the good grease
on how to do it from an old-stager,
bought two bottles of poison, harnessed
the old grey in the spring-cart and headed
into the scrub. We put out a line of un-
poisoned apples first night; all disap-
peared by morning. Next day we applied
the poison, put out twice as many baits
and sharpened our skinning-knives in
readiness. Our camp was over a rise
from the flat where our baits were laid,
and, as we topped it next morning, we
saw a line of dead goats as long as the
Pacific cable. We thrashed that old grey
horse for 10 miles making our getaway.
♦ * ♦ *
“Heresone”: “Dee” (B. 22/12/’4B)
says some farmers on the Darling Downs
claim wheat yields of 19 bushels per
acre. Surely he means 19 bags. Over 20
bags—6o bushels —have been claimed,
both this season and last. As for an
average of 12 bushels —well, a crop like
that would be fed off. Ten bags would
be about the average in a good season,
such as the one just ended. Certainly in
1946, the driest winter for decades, the
harvest was under half a million bushels,
against 11 million and 13 million in the
two seasons since, but We all have our
ups and downs. And it is worth noting
that most of that half-million was planted
in September, and took 10 weeks from
combine to header.
* * * ♦
“Sth. E.”; The traveller drove into the
township and made for the building on
the corner. “Keepin’ dry, mate?” re-
marked a dusty individual, slouching past
on a weary nag. The traveller entered
the bar. “Dry, isn’t it?” a local derelict
greeted hopefully. Having stood him
one, the visitor strolled out. “Keepin’
dry?”, came a .voice from the verandah
seat. The visitor asked for directions
to Tim Anderson’s place. The local
pointed out a little track sneaking off
by itself behind the pub. “That’s Tim’s
road,” he informed. “He lives across
the river. Yair, it’s dry awright.” The
traveller was nosing along carefully,
several miles up the narrow track, when
up from the river plunged a snorting,
riderless nag wet all over. The traveller
raced to the bank, sighted a bobbing
head in midstream and waded in, but
the victim, just out of reach, splashed
further away till at last he scrambled
out on the far side. There, cascading
water like a fountain, he clung weakly
to a sapling. Presently he stirred, heaved
a gurgling sigh, and became aware of the
traveller’s presence. “Er,” be remarked.
“D-dry, ain’t it?”
♦ * * ♦
“Howie Wing”; Basil, a neighbor of
mine, is the local inventor. His potato-
digging machine is a marvel, and only an
average fork-wielder could mine the
murphies quicker. His soil-pulveriser,
designed to . antiquate all ploughs,
harrows and cultivators, awaits only the
super-tractor which someone else will
have to invent to pull it. This morning
he invited Sam and me to give an opinion
on his home-made windmill. “Well,” I
said guardedly. “She’s not actually send-
ing up much water, considering the
strength of the wind.” Sam came to the
inventor’s rescue. “Gam! ”he said. “It’s
almost dead calm. That breeze you can
feel is what Basil’s mill is makin’ /” Basil
took Sam over to the pub, but I had to
hurry home. The way my own mill was
whizzing around I thought I’d better shut
it off before it started a cyclone.
SOLDIER SETTLER, 1852.
O’Brien walked to Binalong
From Gundabingal Run.
His head was high and his step was strong
Though everything he touched went wrong,
On Gundabingal Run,
He’d sown some wheat for the ’roos to reap
On Gundabingal Run.
The drought had killed his cattle and sheep
And his last horse fell in a bony heap
When the soak in the creek was done.
But O’Brien knew the dusty earth
Was sweetened by months of sun,
And the seed of years lay ripe for birth—
A storm or two and there’d be no dearth
On Gundabingal Run.
His plough had broken from the strain
Of tussock and root and rut.
So he made one while he watched for rain
From an ironbark with a curly grain
That grew beside his hut.
The steel share slung on a shoulder strong,
An hour before the sun
Rose over the bush like a bloody gong
And the still heat stifled the faint birds’ song,
O’Brien set out for Binalong
From Gundabingal Run.
•
He took the track of the teamsters’ drays
That came to the runs no more;
He had one drink in two long days
And sixty miles of the loneliest ways
A white man fever bore.
The Binalong bullockies had to stare
To see him alive at all.
The blacksmith hammered his heavy share
While he bought a team from a carter there —•
And the rain began to fall.
O’Brien rode from Binalong
Towards the setting sun.
He sat as straight as a kurrajong.
And he sang as he spurred his horse along
■ To Gundabingal Run.
N.S.W.
ROB WEBSTER.


“T.D.”: The visiting salesman was
gingerly patting the blue dog with one
hand and trying to dust the paw-marks
off his pants with the other, when the
old farmer saw him. “Dori’t pat that
dog,” he yelled ; then “Get behind, Blue.”
The dog slunk off. “What’s wrong with
patting him?” asked the salesman.
“Well,” explained the cocky, “a few
weeks ago he did an extra good job sort-
ing out the milkers and yarding ’em and
turning the drys back. I was so pleased
with him I patted him, and as soon as
I took my hand off him he raced down
the paddock and half-chewed the hocks
off three or four dry cows, just for an
encore,”
* * * *
“Longrob”: “Stoopy” (B. 22/12/’4B)
asks “If snakes can’t go backwards, how
do they dig their holes?” That’s easy.
They just start on the inside end and dig
outwards. Next please !
* * * *
“See Kay”: “Dekko” on the hacking
of the bark of mango-trees recalls I saw
many very old trees up the Endeavour
River (Q.) which had been “doctored”
by Chinese gardeners. The bark had
been gashed all round the trunks to a
height of five or six feet. I asked a
wizened old Chink “Whaffor,” and he
replied, “Long time no mango. Choppim
bark, too many mango.” Today those
same old trees are still bearing beautiful
fruit, fattening myriads of flying-foxes
and wild pigs. The explanation, of
course, is that the chopping checks the
rising sap, and so surplus wood and
foliage is replaced by fruit. It really
bears out the old saying about beating
the woman, the dog and the walnut-tree
—the more you beat them the better they
be.
“Joe John”: It is a a common belief
in N.Q. that reluctant paw-paw trees can
be shocked into bearing by driving a
large nail into the trunk near ground-
level. One version is that two nails should
be so driven as to form an X Within the
wood; this seems to be some sort of
tribute to Dracula. Have also heard the
x treatment advised for Queensland nut-
trees, but have never seen it done or
observed the results.
* * * *
“Solitude”: Young Randall was holi-
daying at the station, and as Seventyfiver
splashed through the crossing Randall
halted his fly-rod and took him in patron-
isingly. “I suppose you haven’t ariy
decent trout-streams in these parts?” he
“You said ‘electricity included Mrs. Diggings.
asked loftily, “Something man-sized?”
Seventyfiver eyed him mildly. “Well,
there’s the Brumby,” he drawled. “I’m
goin’ out that way day after t’morrer,
I s’pose y’ c’d come.” The first half-day of
their trip was covered by truck, then the
old bloke caught nags and they rode
into heavy bush. The hills grew steeper,
the going more arduous, and at the first
night’s camp Randall fell off his nag like
a wet rag. His teeth gritted and his eyes
grew strained next day as, sweat trickling
down his neck, he swiped March flies or
grabbed the saddle when the nag suddenly
lurched. About four o’clock Seventyfiver
stopped. “The nags can’t foot it down
inter the Brumby,” he announced. “Grab
yT pack. We got t’ walk the last six
miles.” Randall doesn’t know how he
made it. Aching in every muscle, he re-
calls casting half-dazedly into the stream
on the old bloke’s instructions, and land-
ing fish. His enthusiasm had long since
given out. Even interest was dead. He
was sitting on the bank surrounded by
more fish than he knew what to do with,
and despairingly contemplating the return
journey, when Seventyfiver arrived back
from downstream. “Ah, y’ got a few,”
he chuckled. “I’ll take y’ inter the west
section nex’ week. Better over there.
Only trouble is the stream runs inter the
bush a bit, and ain’t easy t’ get at like
this’n.”
*.* ♦ *
“8.A.”: When I was at Gympie at the
turn of the century, all drilling was done
“single-hand,” using four-pound hammers
on five-eighth steel (B. 5 /1 1 ’49). A man
working single-handed with a six- or
seven-pound hammer might do fairly well
on the “floor” or where he could stand
over his work, but he would be all in by
crib-time working oh “breast” holes or
“uppers.” “W.R.O.’s” father put up a
fine performance in beating that pair of
crack double-handers, and I venture the
opinion that his victory would have been
still more decisive if he had been using
five-eighth steel instead of the full inch.
Single-hand drilling was not popular out-
side Queensland, but I found it in opera-
tion among>copper-gougers in the Desert
of Atacama, South America.
“Old Mill”: “W.R.0.” (B. 5/1/’49)
is right as regards the weight of the
Gympie single-handed hammer, but a bit
off the beam on some other things. I
went to work underground when I was 15
and finished when X was 72. The heaviest
double-handed hammer ever I used was
7ib. I still have my old Gympie hammer,
311 b. X have mined and prospected from
one side of Australia to the other, and
the heaviest double-handed steel I ever
used was |in,; i never used lin. steel.
As for a single-hand man beating two
topnotch double-hand men, the only pos-
sible chance a single-hand man Would
have would be in exceptionally soft bor-
ing ; even then the double-hand men
would regulate die weight of their blows
according to the nature of the rock. The
single-hand man only has one hand as a
driving force with a short handle, against
the double-hand man’s two hands and a
long handle. In Queensland in the late
’nineties there were miners from all parts
of the Commonwealth and Cornwall, and
there was a lot of talk about the wonder-
ful Gympie single-hand miners. The
management of our show got eight of
them and started them on the single-harifi
against the double-hand men. They lasted
two shifts and the management pulled
them off and put them on the double-
hammer. We never heard a toot from
the trumpet afterwards. I have seen
many drilling contests, but I have never
seen the single-hand man game to take
on the two-hand men in any of the
contests, and 1 fancy I can hear the roar
of protest if they were asked to do so.
In such contests a good hammer-man
would try to pick the best turner, and the
good turner was also on the lookout
for the best hammer-man, then both
would try to get an expert drill-sharpener.
Any one of the three could spoil any
chance of winning. With a fair go and
fair conditions in hard rock, the betting
would easily be 1 to 10 on the two-
hand men against the best single-hand
man in Australia.
« « • •
“R.A.A. Sargent”: “Rodeo” in the ori-
ginal Spanish was, I understand,, the
equivalent of “muster” in English and
came in time in America (where all things
are possible) to be the name of the sports
where the cowhands let off steam after
their arduous work. Perhaps some Abo-
liar can enlighten me why, in Australia,
it has, with its chair-saddles, fancy pants,
crooning boundary-riders, etc., sup-
planted the honest Australian buckjump-
ing show that used to follow a muster
“He seems to have depicted the split part all right, but has fallen
down on his personality."
when the stockmen gathered for sport.
Anyhow, what would you do if the boss
told you to rode© the back paddock?
* ♦ * *
“Nerida”: I used to imagine that the
larvas of the green tree-ants were the
most dutiful and tractable of all insects
because they produced a sticky web at
the bidding of the workers to fastdn
leaves together for a nest. .But through
the intelligent observation of a half-caste
boy I have learnt that the larva is
squeezed by the mandibles of the worker
in such a way that the viscous thread,
so fine as to be almost invisible, is forced
from the body, which is moved back and
forth between the leaves whilst other ants
hold them in position. Jagga-Jag tells
me, also, that the leaf-nest so manufac-
tured keeps a moist heat which acts as
a protection for the larvae thus denuded
of their cocoon-silk.
* * ♦ •
“Baron”: Has the word “ringer”
altered in meaning completely? Years
ago it invariably referred to a shearer,
the word deriving from the action of
“ringing” the sheep with the shears as its
wool was removed. Now, especially in
North Queensland and the Temtory, a
“ringer” is a stockman. He “rings” the
cattle (/.<?., turns the leaders back into the
mob) when he is mustering. “How do
you like ‘ringing’ for a job?” “I was
yarning with a mob of ‘ringers’ from the
Gulf,” are common expressions up north.
The expressive “gun” seems to have taken
over on the sheep front. ,
* * • *
“Hanko”: Mention of bluebells by
Brian James in his “O’Brien’s” (B.
29/12/’4B) sets me wondering if those
plants are spread throughout the Aus-
tralian States. Clumps of the plant occur
in fairly-high-rainfall areas, therein lush
of foliage and with flowers pale and
sparse, but on the dry plains of western
Victoria and Rivenna (N.S.W.) the blue-
bell is a compact, belled shrub; hardy
and drought-resistant, its foliage so
darkly-green that it seems almost black
among the hayed grasses; its flowers
prolific and a bright azure-blue. Like
the author of “O’Brien’s” I know not its
botanical name, but bluebell well de-
scribes it; a plant that for daintiness
compares easily with its namesake of
Scotland.
* ♦ * •
“Mozzer”: Coolatana was having its
annual race-meeting, and Trunk Wills had
two starters for the Maiden Plate. “What
price my two?” he asked one of the
books. “Are they both triers?” was the
question in reply. Assured they were, the
fielder said, “Four to one both of them.”
Trunk put £2O on Panther and £5 on
Miss Julian. Others took the tip and
came in on Panther until its price was at
6-to-4, and Miss Julian at eights. Then
the singles and fivers began to drift in
unobtrusively for Miss Julian. When it
won Trunk came to light with tickets
worth £2OO. “You told me they were
both triers all right,” grumbled the
bookie. “But you didn’t say which was
tryin’ to win and which was tryin’ to
lose!”
• ♦ * •
“Bill C.”: Have heard the pretty little
diamond-birds (pardalote) referred to as
“miner” birds (B. 22/12/’4B). These
appear in N.Q. about April or May,
“chip-chipping” along gullies and road-
cuttings in search of nesting-places.
Friendly little chaps, they may have
acquired the “miner” nickname from
observance of their Aabit of digging nesf-
burrows in road-banks. They can pierce
tunnels through the hardest of sun-baked
gravel or clay, and they’ll make several
before they’re satisfied,
* * * *
“Muskeen”: The brown gannet (B.
5/1 1 ’49) acquired the name of booby
owing to its insensibility to danger when
approached, Binghi has on occasions
made a pet of this bird, which, if startled,
has an unpleasant habit of bringing up
its tucker. In a jerrybuilt nest it deposits
two eggs, one invariably snow-white, the
other muddy-looking.
“Blime”: Twice a week he appears as
a dust-cloud on the horizon, slowly takes
the form of jogging nag and j inker, and
ends, the centre of a willy-willy of flies,
at the pub hitching-rack. “Been driving
that jinker a long time, Pete,” I remarked
as he stepped on to the verandah. “Yair,’
he replied, turning proudly to the vehicle.
“These roads shake ’er about a bit
though. That’s the third set o’ wheels I’ve
’ad on ’er, but the axle’s bin changed
only the once.” “Make the shafts your-
self?” I inquired, taking in the home-
made attachment of sawn timber. “That
set I did, yair,” he answered me. “Put
another noo floor in ’er, too, coupla years
back. An’ these sides ’n’ back. Whatcha
think o’ the front, eh?” He indicated an
imposing arrangement of boards and
riveted iron. “Looks awright, don’t it?”
he remarked with a self-satisfied grin. “I
had t’ get another seat made f’r ’er,
though. Couldn’t do that meself. An’
buy some noo springs, diff’rent times.
She’s standin’ up pretty good though,
considerin’. Bet there ain’t many folks
around c’n say they’re still drivin’ the
very same jinker after fifty years.”
* * * *
“Beau Forte”: Few in the same line
of business possess the enterprise of the
sexton-cwm-secretary of the Stringybark
Ridge cemetery. I was setting a few
rabbit-traps at the popholes in the old
nettihg-fence around that quiet place
when I saw him bumping down a grave.
“Who’s dead. Jack?” I asked. “Nobody
yet,” he replied. “But I thought I’d better
get one ready on spec. Y’ see, it’s a funny
game, this. Sometimes y’ go weeks with-
out a funeral and are just gettin’ a bit
fed up with the job when they come with
a burst. There was the double-header I
had about a month ago. Had t’ get an-
other bloke in t’ sink one of the ’oles f’r
me and he takes ’alf the cash, of course.
So now I’m keepin’ one hole ahead all
the time, just in case.”
* * * *
“Trim”: Hubbard, retired cocky,
widower, 83, lives in an old one-room
iron shack on the most valuable corner
allotment of the township. Shaggy calls
but finds the humpy locked. He’s vainly
tried several times to buy the allotment,
but this time he has a most attractive
offer. Shaggy contacts Joe the saddler;
Joe says, “Come to think of it, I haven’t
noticed the old cove about for a coupler
days. Make a point of always keeping
a lookout for him in case he goes out
to it some time.” Shaggy mentions that
the door is locked. “Better go over and
have a look round,” says Joe. Through
a window they dimly make out a stretcher
on which a grey blanket covers some-
thing, Joe goes off and rings up the
local police, who comes down, looks
through the window, tries the door, kneels
down, puts his beak to the space under
the door, takes a good sniff and says
“Whew. He’s dead all right.” They
force the door, enter and find the blanket
covering a heap of dirty clothes and
effects. There being no sign of Hubbard,
inquiries are instituted. The old chap
had gone to the city, where he Rad pub-
lished an advertisement for a housekeeper
and was interviewing applicants.
CRESCENT HONEYEATER.
Egypt! Egypt!
On our lion’s-tail you cling.
Sunshine on your yellow wing,
Sipping nectar as you sing—
Egypt I Egypt I
Why do you sing of a foreign land,
Of burning sun and burning sand,
Where careless time a dreary, desert wrought,
And trees and grass are but a poignant thought?
Why not sing of forests cool,
Of splashings in a sunlit pool
Where wattles light the green with golden name,
And thrushes fill the gullies with their name?
Egypt! Egypt! /,
Did you in bygone ages fly
Beneath a brassy tropic sky,
Calling that metallic cry—
Egypt! Egypt!
TASMANIA.
A. E. STURHES.


8
m
PLAN your Estate
TN these days of changing values and high death
duties you will ensure better protection for your
dependents by:
I. Careful planning before your Will is drawn.
11. Providing for the careful management of
your Estate in the best interests of your
dependents after your guiding hand is with-
drawn.
You are invited to call and discuss your Estate
problems with a senior officer of Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited.
The Company has wide experience in the
management of Estates of many different kinds and
sizes. Because its service is perpetual it may be
depended upon to provide alert, efficient manage-
ment in the best interests of your dependents when
required.
w If u J? able t 0 call write for a copy of the booklet
Your Executor and Trustee,” that describes the
services rendered by the Company—and the charges.
protection
v
PERPETUAL
TRUSTEE COMPANY LIMITED
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS
UNDER ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £67,000,000 (the
average Estate being lasi than
£10.000).
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE
AGENT UNDER POWER OP
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES
& OTHERS. ADMINISTRATOR.
BTC.
Directors:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman; E. R. KNOX;
ALLEN C. LEWIS; Hon. J. P. ABBOTT, M.H.R.; D. R. LYSAGHT
SAMUEL HORDERN; H. V, DOUGLASS, Managing Director,
A. 6. ARMYTAGE, Manager.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WAGGA WAGGA, TAMWORTH and ORANGE
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACKSOifS
dsuam Ur
PJMTO
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
"national” window face
„ ENVELOPES
- NATIONAL BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
„ ROLL FEED STATIONERY
NATIONAL FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATEN,* BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
H ELECTRIC USAGES
, NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
PROTECTA SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
„ BUTTER WRAPS
NATIONAL waxed milk
BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
office Systems and equipment
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL BRISBANE
For a COOLER
BOUSE in SUMMER and
a WARMER HOUSE in
WINTER - include
i?
U *
in your new home or
remodelling plans
Insulate and Decorate with
W ftOHflL!? ii
WALLS and CEILINGS
Sold by Hardware Stores and Timber Merchants everywhere*
CNR
ẁ
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Hesitant Sharemarket
Lack of strength in a variety
of stocks has been evident on
Australian ’Changes of recent
weeks, but the general level of
prices is higher than at the close
of ’Change dealings for 1948.
B.H.P. remains the most signi-
ficant market leader, and it has
kept fairly steady at a price
above late-1948 levels, with a
slight recession last week to
48s. 6d., then recovery to 495.
Colonial Sugar has shown little
movement at a firm level of
£6l, and British Tobacco has
been steady. But Bradford
Cotton has fallen 2s. (to
505.) during 1949, and, at the
present price of 50s. cum rights
to a one-for-two ord. issue at a
premium of 13s. a share, offers
a favorable opportunity of buy-
ing into a first-class stock.
There appears to be a fairly
large parcel of scrip on the
market at present. Also weak
are shares in North Coast Steam.
These have attractions as a long-
term investment to those who
believe that Australia will even-
tually be forced away from
Socialism by the results of the
system itself.
Another factor in the prevail-
ing hesitant market has been the
big demand for fresh capital by
new and expanding companies
over the past two years. Some-
thing like £6O million was taken
from the Australian investment
market by new share-issues in
1947 and 1948, thus appeasing
investors’ hunger to an extent.
But investment funds continue to
build up, even though the tend-
ency these days is for the
national income to pass into the
hands of spenders rather than
investors.
. The cost of establishing new
industries and re-equipping old
ones continues to rise as wage-,
cost- and price-inflation becomes’
a bigger feature of our economy
m each passing day. Concerns
owning manufacturing assets
bought at pre-war prices thus
possess inner strength by com-
parison with the concern newly
starting. And, as a rule, the old
co. is able (indeed, often forced)
to ask for a substantial
premium on a new issue of
shares (as in the case of Brad-
ford Cotton), which provides a
reserve against the increased
post-war capital cost of new
plant.
Any plant, however, what-
ever its cost, is worth no more
than it can earn. And under
price-control conditions that sets
up a special problem for the in-
vestor, particularly during a
period of costs-inflation. Infla-
tion may perhaps be coped with
where the trader is allowed suffi-
cient initiative to adjust his sell-
ing-prices in relation to his costs.
But, under price-control, costs
iare always a step or two ahead
of selling-prices.
With a return to principles of
economic equity in our govern-
ment, however, the future of
well-managed, reasonably-capi-
talised enterprises in industries
not overcapitalised should be
attractive, and the inflation that
has occurred in costs and prices
generally should reflect itself in
the prices of shares in a way that
will compensate the investor for
the fall in the buying-power of
paper money. In addition, our
industrial progress, long ob-
structed, must eventually have
its influence on investment
values.
Bradford Cotton
An opportunity arises for the
buying-into Bradford Cotton at
the lowest price for a couple of
years. At 50s. last week, the £1
ords. are 6s. 3d. below their
highest price in 1948, and are
now cum rights to a one-for-
two ord.-share issue at a
premium of 13s. a. share. The
buyer at last week’s price who
exercises his rights pays an
average of 445, 6d. for his shares,
and at that figure, on a 10 p.c.
div, basis, will obtain a return
of slightly under £4 10s, per
cent. Some of the co.’s new
plant at present is not fully
productive; when it is capital
should get more support from
earning-capacity. Bradford Cot-
ton has an excellent financial
history, and possesses an ex-
tremely alert management.
British Steel
The Iron and Steel Bill, in-
troduced by the British Socialists
following the “nationalisation”
of coal and transport, under-
takes to bring under public
ownership the basic processes of
steelmaking, namely the digging/
of iron ore, the smelting of
iron, conversion of pig-iron and
scrap into steel and the shaping
of steel by hot rolling.
Under the legislation a Gov-
ernment corporation is to be
set up which will acquire the
capital of the 107 major firms
carrying on the basic processes.
Subsidiaries of the 107 com-
panies will come into the ac-
quisition scheme automatically.
The Government corporation,
through its acquired companies
and the subsidiaries which go
with them, will thus become
responsible for some activities
outside the four basic processes,
in some cases even going as far
as the finished article. But it is
not the intention of the bill to
nationalise, finished products
otherwise. Of the small con-
cerns not taken over those pro-
ducing up to 50,000 tons of ore
a year or 20,000 tons of other
products will need licences to
continue; those producing less
than 5000 tons may continue
without licence.
The bill provides for com-
pensation for shares taken over,
based on Stock Exchange values.
It also provides for consumers’
committees to protect the in-
terests of users of steel, such as
the motor-car and shipbuilding
industries and for an arbitration
tribunal presided over by a
lawyer.
The legislation intends, in
effect, that the new Iron and
Steel Corporation of Great
Britain shall become the sole
shareholder in the major firms
engaged in “the working, getting
and smelting of iron ore, the
production of steel and the shap-
ing of steel by rolling,” together
with the ancillary interests of
such firms. It is estimated that
the total number of persons em-
ployed by the firms to be taken
over is about 300,000.
The scrip of the companies
“For goodness' sake Wake up, Smith — you'll be
late home."
concerned is to be transferred
to the corporation on May 1,
1950, or on such later date as the
Minister may decide.
An aspect which distinguishes
this from previous nationalisa-
tion schemes, it is pointed out in
London, is that the companies
to be taken over will continue as
individual units, under their
present names —with the good-
will attaching to them —and
under the existing managements.
There will be no change in per-
sonnel at the date of vesting.
The corporation will be em-
powered to make changes in
boards of directors if this is
thought necessary later. The cor-
poration will be responsible for
the central planning of the in-
dustry, and the companies taken
over will be required to carry
out such measures of modernisa-
tion or rationalisation as may be
decreed. Independent firms will
be dependent on the corporation
for raw-material supplies, and it
will be the responsibility of the
Minister, if any intervention is
needed, to see that they are
fairly treated in this matter.
The corporation management,
to be appointed by the Minister,
will consist of a chairman and
from four to 10 other members,
all to be “qualified by experi-
ence and capacity.” It will be
the function of the corporation
to provide iron and steel at
prices, in quantities and of quali-
ties best suited in its view to the
public interest.
The Minister may give the
corporation general directions,
which must be carried out, and
it must submit for approval by
him its plans for development,
training and research. The
powers of the Minister in rela-
tion to the corporation seem to
correspond, says the “ ‘Times’
Review of Industry,” broadly
with those existing between
Ministers and the controlling
bodies of the other nationalised
industries. The corporation,
which must publish accounts,
statistics and returns, is required
to pay its way, taking one year
with another.


mm
S;
S
s
s
-lIP
“Yob cam taste
the EXTRA flavour
in 555 Virginia
cigarettes 9 *
The secret’s £n the
333 S blend . . ■
STATE
EXPRESS
333
always please
HOW YOU CAN BE A
aOL0 n
00'
u
J
BE THE MAN who never speeds past
schools always watches out for
children
BE THE MAN who never overtakes on
hills or curves —always keeps left of the
double lines.
BE THE MAN who always gives
correct hand signals when about
to turn, stop, pass or slow down.
BE THE MAN who looks
both ways before leav-
ing the kerb always crosses with
the lights... never jaywalks.
BE THE MAN who always
gives way to the traffic
on the right and
steps at a halt
sign before entering
, major streets.
y 7/,
%l
•&
BE THE MAN who always
lights when approaching
traffic at night.
dips head-
on-coming
Drive courteously ut all times
DEATH IS SO PERMANENT.
ISSUED BY* THE AUSTRALIAN ROAD SAFETY COUNCIL
(Administered by the Commonwealth Department of Transport)
R5Y21.83.t2S
MARILAND FINACE AND INDUSTRY
Free Medicine—And Drugs
Odious distinction has been
given to New Zealand by the
Central Opium Board of U.N.O.
in its heroin report, think Maori-
landers; yet there were warn-
ings months before this report
came out that drug-drinking
was going too far. There’s a
lot of business and robbery in
M.L.’s “free” drug and medicine
scheme, which is swallowing up
millions of tax money, and mak-
ing drug-addicts.
Thousands of prescriptions in-
clude dangerous habit-forming
concoctions, with the sedative
drug heroin used in more and
more cough-mixtures—at least
until the recent scare. Doctors
have admitted cases where
patients have taken five aspirins
every morning as a normal
course. Hypnotic drugs of the
barbiturate group, basis of most
sleeping tablets, have a deep
hold.
It won’t be easy to stop
or reverse the trend, for there’s
profit in the trade, and the rank
and file just don’t, or won’t, see
the red light. In five years the
cost of prescriptions paid for by
the Government has more than
doubled. The public is going
for expensive new drugs because
they’re “free.” Drug-manufac-
turers and chemists are doing a
roaring trade in dope, with no
bad debts, for the “State” always
pays; but Maorilanders all foot
the bill in the long run, through
taxes. It amounts to nearly £4
a head for every man, woman
and child, and the ceiling isn’t
reached yet.
Food Output
When knight Henry Tizard,
John Bull’s leading food scientist,
was puzzled about New Zealand
food production at the end of
his December tour of Maori-
land, top-ranking farmers
hurried to enlighten him. His
summing-up, that M.L. wasn’t
producing any more than 10
years ago, was so wide of the
mark that chairman J. T.
Martin, of Wright, Stephenson,
Ltd., said it would do the
Dominion a lot of harm if it
went unchallenged in the United
Kingdom.
To Tizard N.Z. was a coun-
try of wonderful grass, first-rate
scientific research and good
farmers, but he figured out that
it could double butter ouput in
10 years. A bird’s-eye view of
possibilities from the air made
his “mouth water.” Here are
facts, through J. T. Martin’s
eyes: Annual output of food
jumped in the 10 years ended
July, 1948, by 254,100 tons to
1,328,995 tons, a gain of nearly
20 p.c.; meat supplies were up
35 p»c.; and canned vegetables
were multiplied 10 times over.
Figures show gains in every-
thing but wheat.
The figures in detail:
1938. 1948.
tons. tons.
Meats (inc. pork) 470,000 640,000
Butter-fat .. .. 179,600 187,500
Oats 47,159 50,955
Barley 24,132 46,605
Maize 7,389 9,456
Peas 9,977 30,517
Onions .. .. .. 4,779 13,585
Potatoes .. .. 146,785 155,018
Wheat 161,886 123,303
Linseed .... 259 5,000
Grass seeds .. .. 2,047 14,615
Tallow 29,137 45,000
Dehydrated fruits.. 21 245
Canned vegetables 720 7,196
T&tals .. .. ..1,083,891 1,328,995
This lift in farm outputs has
been won against shortage of
farm-hands, fertilisers and trac-
tors, and record high taxes.
M.L.’s total dairy herd is smaller,
but cows are doing better. Near
towns, hundreds of 40-hour week
workers, youngsters and women
are tuming-to in commercial
gardens and orchards, mainly
at week-ends. Food is mount-
ing, and M.L. should hit new
records in the bumper season
now at its peak.
Hotel Accommodation
Australians are having their
firkt taste of hotel conditions
that have been the common lot
of New Zealanders for years—
in fact, since Maoriland went on
the 40-hour week in pre-war
days. The 40-hour week is the
nigger in th« woodpile on both
sides of the Tasman now.
There’s no shortage of staff in
bars —ML. has proved that —
but it’s a different story in
dining-rooms, kitchens and
lodging quarters.
Tourists and visitors to N.Z,
have had a shock on first com-
ing up against conditions there,
and have carried away memories
of a “frightful problem” in
hotel accommodation, at its
worst in holiday-time, but always
there more or less the whole
year round.
Arrivals from abroad have
learnt by experience what it
means to come up against “full-
house” signs in M.L, hotels and
be forced to go to back-street
lodging-houses, where the rule
generally is “bed and breakfast
only.” They’ve found travel isn’t
a picnic all the way, and some
of them have given M.L. a bad
name for its hotels. Many
Maorilanders themselves have
been up in arms about hotels
interested in nothing but liquor-
trading, bedrooms empty be-
cause there’s no staff, and dining-
rooms nearly closed. Magis-
trates supposed to help hard-
pressed travellers have had a
soft spot for licensees scratching
for staff, and police told to do
their duty if the law is broken
haven’t been able to decide
quite where they stand.
In defence of hotels, knight
Ernest Davis, leading light in
the trade, claimed last year that
M.L. charges for board and
lodging were the lowest in the
Empire, probably in the world.
“True, we haven’t gilded
palaces,” he conceded, “but we
haven’t the population to keep
up such style, nor is it required
or really asked for. There is,
however, a standardl of solid
comfort and efficient service,
without frill or fussiness, that is
good.” He’d welcome more
elasticity in meal hours, though,
but the 40-hour week doesn’t
allow it, unless staffs are built
up. Not all visitors are critical;
some are friendly. One Yank
colonel, for instance, said M.L.
hotels were not “Ritzy” but
comfortable, and he ticked off
other Yanks who wanted “cock-
tail-bars and soft beds but
weren’t much interested in
M.L.’s real beauties.”
Gold-dredging
Pleas by New Zealand gold
cos. for a State subsidy or the
right to sell their output at the
best price on the world, market
have fallen on deaf Labor ears,
so cos. which padded along com-
fortably before M.L.’s “new-
look” pound chopped £2 3s. an
ounce off what they get for gold
are planning to fold up or go
on a “care-and-maintenance”
basis.
Some day claims which aren’t
worth working now might yield
divs. again. M.L.’s biggest
dredges, in the South Island,
have been struggling against
heavy odds, and directors have
put development plans into cold-
storage, Costs are too high and
returns too low to go ahead with
a scheme to spend at least
£400,000 on an outsize dredge to
dig the Taramakau River at
Cape Terrace, in the heart of
one of the richest gold areas at
Kumara, on the West Coast,
where the gold fever was strong
in the late ’sixties. Present out-
lay required would be more than
double the pre-war estimate, then
equal to the issued capital of
Taramakau Gold Dredging, Ltd.
As a second line, this co. in-
vited Kanieri Gold Dredging,
Ltd., to join in a partnership
to work the claim, after the
Kanieri field is finished about
four years hence, but Kanieri
isn’t interested unless gold jumps
in price. In its latest year (ended
March 31), Kanieri lost £1367,
against a profit of £31,112 in
1947 and £24,929 in ’46. If
the Government won’t make
things easier, Kanieri is likely
to close down rather than take
the balance of the gold out of
its property without prospect of
divs.
Barrytown Gold Dredg-
ing is offering its dredge to Aus-
tralian buyers. Generally, M.L.
gold enterprises are in far worse
straits than Australian, which
aren’t holding their own today.
Under the cloud, M.L. is likely
to lose skilled mining men to
Fiji, where gold concerns are
crying out for technical experts,
, research-workers, mining-engin-
eers and geologists.
Breweries
Controls and high costs are
hitting at profits of leading New
Zealand cos., as sales show a
tendency to slip below post-war
peaks, while exes, go on rising.
So far, chairmen have been
cautious in comments, but
they’re not happy about the posi-
tion. William Perry, head of
N.Z. Breweries, Ltd., one of
M.L.’s top cos., said last year that
there’s a limit beyond which
turnover can’t be pushed to
cover mounting costs. This
brewery combine, with big hotel
interests, has plans to extend
hotel accommodation well be-
yond that offering today, but
can’t get going until the official
ban on permits for commercial
premises is thrown overboard.
Millions will be spent by brewery
concerns when the time comes,
but that won’t be soon enough
to help M.L. during the existing
and anticipated tourist boom.
Hotel firms are sore about
the ten-year standstill in hotel
tariffs, while wages, food,
materials and everything else
in overhead have been soaring.
Dominion Breweries, Ltd., has
shared the lull in sales, but vigor
at the helm has been enough to
counter the blow so far. With
record net earnings of £76,230,
the co. has gone £9656 better
than a year ago (to March 31),
and has £23,122 left after taking
£53,108 to pay 15 p.c. div. and
bonus. By cutting exes, the co.
has been able to justify hopes
formed when capital expansion
of £lOO,OOO was planned in
1947. Ebbing from the post-war
highwater-mark in business is
seen in a steady slide in turn-
over —£12,000 in two years. The
current year will be a searching
test of managerial skill as scope
for further economies is harder
to find.


FIRST IN 1888
No other Battery can match . . •
w
FIRST TODAY!
Exide’s 61 Years’ Experience
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD., 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
XA9.25
PERSONAL ITEMS
A former Flying Doctor operating
from Alice Springs, Adelaide medico L.
C. Lum has passed in London for mem-
bership of the Royal College of
Physicians—only 45 of the 545 sitters
managed it. Before leaving for England
in 1947 he was accepted as a member of
Australia’s counterpart of the London
body, and, at 32, is probably the youngest
to hold the double membership. Lum
is a New Digger of five years’ stand-
ing, and his watercolors of Centralia in
the Medical Arts Society in London in-
dicate a handiness with palette as well as
stethoscope.
Last year Dr. G. L. Woods, of Mel-
bourne Uni., was game, or unwise,
enough to assert that Bass Strait fisher-
men were “sissy.” The immediate reac-
tion to the assertion was a spirited invi-
tation to “come and have a go” with four
of the maligned, Ron Shapter, Frank
Ferrier, Tony Jurgins and Tom Warren.
The doctor, au fait no doubt with the
capabilities of his own stomach, de-
clined. But the other day a 70 rap.h.
gale which picked on Port Phillip and
lifted, among other things, the yacht
Merlan bodily on to a reef in the Rip
gave the same foursome a chance to
prove both their guts and seamanship.
They cast off to the rescue in a leaky
coracle whose sole fittings were a sweep-
oar and a jam-tin baler, pulled into seas
big enough to heel the Queen Mary, were
caught miraculously by an eddy which
slewed them almost alongside the reef
victim, and rescued all its crew, one of
whom was swept overboard but sur-
faced again near enough to the dinghy to
be hauled aboard. Scores of watchers
cheered the rescue bark’s return, and
subsequently sheafs of telegrams reached
the heroes from places whose nearest con-
tact with the sea was the local picture-
show—just as they’d done 44 years
earlier when Perrier’s father rescued
single-handed seven of the barquentine
La Bella’s company at Warrnambool.
Alfred Deakin and Joseph Cook sent
letters of congratulation on that occa-
sion. Among these lifesavers Shapter was
a Tobruk Rat and Jurgins an ex-R.A.N.
man.
Phillip Law, who shipped as senior
scientific officer in Wyatt Earp on her
trip to Macquarie Island early in 1948,
now leads the relief party borne in
H.M.A.S. Labuan for the research ex-
petition's base on Heard Island. His
arrival will return Stuart Campbell to the
directorship of Air Navigation.
Alexander Ross, deputy-governor of
M.L. s Reserve Bank at 41, first learned
how to count ’em in the National Bank at
Auckland in 1933. Three years earlier
he had represented his country in rowing
events at the Empire Games in Canada.
Trineo ; Sir Oliver Franks, the British
Ambassador in Washington now smoothly striv-
mg foi the uniting of British and American
policy over Palestine, is something of a legend.
Humans have always delighted in the farm boy
who, after years of hitting a golf-ball against
a corrugated-iron tank with a cricket stump,
wanders into the city one day and lifts the
famous bowlers over the fence. In Franks
Britishers saw a variation of the legend come
to hie. When the late war broke he was teaching
moral philosophy at Glasgow University. Shortly
after, he was pitchforked into the Ministry of
Supply—-a moral philosopher among a tough
crowd of hardheaded businessmen trained in the
searching school of labor and production. When
the war ended he was head of the whole shebang.
Called the great civilian discovery of the war,
his name embellished with the initials of C.B.E.
and K.C.8., Franks had the ball at his feet,
instead of nudging it, he returned to Oxford,
where he’d been a student and tutor, and slid
gratefully back into the familiar routine of
Queen s College. The Marshall-Plan conference
l n v a . ri ® .dragged off his cap and gown and
landed him in that city as head of the British
delegation. The star of the conference, by
general agreement, and by virtue of his crystal
clarity of thought, his airtight logic, was Oliver
Franks. By January, 1948, the philosopher was
safely back in Queen’s College. But his third
excursion into the outside world was looming,
with the widening division between Britain and
America cleaved by the wedge of Palestinian
disagreement. To both countries, aware of the
paramount necessity of standing together in a
Russian-fermented world, it seemed they needed
the attention of a philosopher, one who knew
how to think, how to express his thoughts, and
how to understand the thoughts of others. The
ability to do all this led Franks again from
his cloisters to the critically important post he
holds today.
It’s not often a man lands a £2OOO-a-
-year job and is not on the pictorial
records of city newspapers. Melbourne
dailies are still short of a photo, of Adam
Fletcher, the Chief Civil Engineer of
Victoria’s railways, recently appointed a
Commissioner. An Old Digger, and 35
years with the railways, Fletcher says
he’s been too busy to worry about dicky-
birds.
There are many now-it-can-be-told war stories
still to come to light, and Lt.-Cdr. H. S.
Batterham, an Australian naval man who served
with “frogmen” in War 11, surfaced details of
some of their one-man jobs in Melbourne the
other day. The frogmen’s close-fitting rubber
suits were designed by a grim trial. A British
diver normally suited was sent down to deal
with two parachuted acoustic mines in the
Thames near Hammersmith bridge. Their firing
mechanism was so sensitive that air bubbles
from the diver’s suit blew them and him to
smithereens. So the bubble-less suit was de-
signed, and, fitted with webbed feet, the spunky
crew went into Normandy three days ahead of
the invasion forces, groping under water and
rendering safe by feel scores of highly-sensitive
mines laid tp receive the transports. One night
a minesweeper located a German midget sub.
in 50ft. of water. Over .went the frogmen,
hooked a tough sweep wire to the submersible’s
bow and returned to their craft, which surged
full-ahead towards shore, swerved when nearly
aground and swung her tow like a hooked fish
on to the beach. Waiting troops did the rest.
With another “frog,” Lt. H. Bailey, R.N.V.R.,
Batterham was landed at Gibraltar to clear
two cruisers’ hulls of limpet-mines stuck there
by Italian frogmen. Batterham finished his
job, crossed to help his oppo, and found him
in a Holly woodesque underwater fight with
an Itie whom he’d caught busily sticking mines
on the other side of the ship. But in this fight
the villain really died, on the end of the R.N.
man’s knife.
The subtended pair presented by Prior
are not Siamese twins, physically, but to
pretty well every other aspect of their
relationship the description could apply.
They are Rawicz and Landauer, duo-
pianists, the first of the A.B.C.’s 1949
celebrity artists to arrive from Europe.
Rawicz yvas born in Poland, his
mate in Vienna, and both, after
14 years in England, are now natur-
alised British subjects. The pianists
claim telepathic communication exists
between them, and so far medical
men have failed to disprove the connec-
tion. If seated at pianos in separate
rooms, with no prior knowledge of the
piece to be played, both men will begin on
the same composition at the same time.
They met in the ’thirties while sunbathing
at an Austrian mountain lake, when
Rawicz was idly whistling the polka from
Smetana’s “The Two Widows.” Landauer,
who’d been after the name of the tune
since he’d heard it on the air, introduced
himself to the whistler. They talked
music, tried out a duet in a little piano-
shop at the foot of the mountain and
were so pleased with their effort they
decided to join forces, and a few months
later were appearing in public. The Duke
of Windsor heard them in the British
Embassy in Vienna, suggested a hearing
in England, and soon they were on the
MUSICAL TWINS.
8.8. C. The King and Queen commanded
their appearance at a private party, and
the Royal audiences were, extended to
King Alfonso and King Leopold. After
five recitals in Sydney, the pair will tour
all capital cities, with a few smaller
centres thrown in.
When a Bulletin man called on H. C.
Coombs, since January 1 the Common-
wealth Bank’s new governor, the first
impression he got of the pugnacious-
looking little man was that he was glad
he wasn’t there after a loan. Counihan’s
attached commemoration of him may help
MONEY-JINGLER.
to explain the feeling. Born among the
orchards of Kalamunda (W.A.), Coombs
climbed right through the admirable edu-
cation system of that State before cross-
ing to the London School of Economics,
from which he graduated in economics
and banking with a thesis on central
banking in the British Dominions. Re-
turning home with a Ph.D., he moved
east because he thought opportunity
more promising there. He seems
to have found it, in what must
be one of the most prosperous-looking
offices in Sydney. Thickly carpeted,
leather-chaired, and buttressed one end by
a carved case bulging with fat books, its
walls are panelled almost to the ceiling
with richly-red Queensland cedar. A
suite of rooms—office, boardroom and
private dining-room—are all lined with the
same lovely wood, which first saw service
further up Martin-place, in the N.S.W.
Government Savings Bank. Coombs was
Director-General of Post-War Recon-
struction before his present job, and in
war-time had, inherited from his pre-
decessor, a close association with Mr.
Dedman.
Dr. J. Cottrell, a Sydney Uni. gradu-
ate, who for a time was on the staff of
Dunedin Hospital (M.L.) and later in pri-
vate practice in the Scotch byterian city,
is off shortly to Lebanon, where he’ll be
chief m.o. of the U.N. Relief Mission
for Arab refugees. The doc. is nothing
if not cosmopolitan—-during Hitler’s
frenzy he operated in Syria, Sicily and
Italy, and when news of his latest ap-
pointment reached him was head of
health services in Vienna,
Maoriland Rhodes scholars for 1949
are Francis Foulkes, Auckland University
College, and R. W. Burchfield, Victoria
University College, Wellington. Foulkes
will study divinity and Burchfield, who
had five years’ active soldiering, two of
them with the N.Z.E.F. in Italy, will
specialise in early English and kindred
languages.
For his Life and Times of Sir Julius
von Haast, an early Maoriland explorer,
his 84-year-old son, H. E. von Haast, has
been given a doctorate of literature by
Maoriland’s university. A lawyer as well,
Von Haast is editor of the IVfeL. Law
Reports, has another volume on 60 years’
association with the M.L. Bench and Bar
on hand, and works off his left-over
energy in the local tramping club.
Maoriland lost its local Woolworth
when Ben Sutherland, originator of the
Dominion s 200-odd Self-Help grocery
stores, went to his account in Wellington,
at J ust t urne d 50, when many
are thinking of what they’ve got salted
away to retire on, Sutherland resigned
from the N. Island’s railways in 1922 to
open a tiny co-op. grocery shop because
the cost of living was too high. The
Railway Department loaned him a small
windowless shed, and here he applied his
three cardinal principles—no credit, no
delivery, no price-fixing. He sold slightly
above cost, business grew, so did the local
competition’s alarm, and finally strong
protests were made to the Prime
Minister, who decreed that Sutherland
could no longer operate from Govern-
ment property. The retail traders were to
regret their interference. The lone battler
opened up a shop in Wellington, sold
generally to the public, and a year
later had seven shops. In 1926 he
got going in Christchurch, then
Auckland, and in July, 1931, the 100th
shop was selling as briskly as the first.
Now 200 egg-and-butteries are strung
throughout both Islands in a chain initi-
ated by the tenacious marketeer who, on
his Railway Department staff card, was
rated “a man with no initiative.”
This year s Lord Kemsley scholarship,
founded for the encouragement of
Dominion journalists, has gone to A. G.
Parry, of the Otago “Daily Times,”
Dunedin. He is 28, commenced as a
schoolteacher, gravitated into journalism,
was with the Enzed air-force in Canada
and England and had a look-in at the
Pacific theatre. The scholarship offers
its holder 12 months on the Kemsley
papers in London and the provinces.
British aviation has lost a front-
rank figure, also well known in
Australia ~ Air-Commodore H. G
Brackley, C.8.E., D. 5.0., D.S.C., who
succeeded Australian Don Bennett as
chief executive of British S. American
Airways, the job he held at the end. Born
just before the century, he flew with the
Navy’s air-arm and the R.A.F. in the
Kaiser’s war, coming out with D.S.O. and
D.S.C. He was a starter in the Atlantic
crossing won by Alc'ock and Brown, and
in the London-Capetown race, which
ended for him at Khartoum in a crashed
Handley Page. After a trip to Japan
with the British survey expedition to look
over the earthquake damage, he became
Imperial Airways’ first Air Superintendent,
and was in the plane, the Astarea, which
surveyed the initial airmail route between
London and Melbourne. In the second
scrap his best work was done as senior
staff officer of R.A.F. transport command,
a gargantuan assignment, and one which
gave him the necessary know-how to shift
42,000 people by air from India and
Pakistan in the exodus of 1947. He was
drowned at Rio]s Copacabana Beach dur-
ing a tour of his company’s S. American
routes and bases.
Maoriland’s State literary fund has
awarded £625 to Allen Curnow, poet and
journalist, to continue his studies in Eng-
land. A native of Timaru, he was
schooled at Christchurch Boys’ High
School, entered the Inky Way on
Christchurch “Sun,” then joined Christ-
church “Press” in 1938. Several plays
are alleged against him, and he compiled
an anthology of M.L. verse by poets
who ran loose between 1923 and 1945.
Into the silence:
In Melbourne, at 65, Harold Dickie, the
towel manufacturer. An Englishman, he came
to Australia in 1926 and started his cotton and
spinning mill at Yarraville (Vic.), now grown
into the largest towelling company in the
country.
At Wellington (M.L.), at 86, Harry Roberts,
who made Rugby history 60 years ago. He was
with the first official M.L. team that toured
N.S.W. in 1884 and played the 1888 touring
English team. Though blind for his last 12
years, he maintained interest in the game by
radio and Braille reading. Son Ted was an
All Black for four years between 1913 and 1921.
An accident which broke his thigh ended the
old Rugger’s life.
In Melbourne, at 55, James Francis Murphy,
C.M.G., chairman of the Australian Wool
Realisation Commission. In 1932 he accom-
panied the Australian delegation to the Ottawa
Conference as adviser, and since then had been
Commonwealth Food Controller, Wool Ad-
viser, Economic Adviser to the Ministry for
Commerce and Agriculture and vice-chairman
of the Shipping Control Board during the last
war.


CRYPTIC CROSSWORD
PAGE 35
Women's Letters
From Sydney
Sydney citizens paid their respects
to the Lady Mayoress last Wednes-
day and Thursday mornings. Mrs. E. C.
O’Dea received callers in the drawing-
room, which has not yet undergone the
beauty treatment which it has been
promised. But really there are some
mellow and lovely pieces in the room,
which would be missed should the new
age entirely supplant them. However,
things are happening around the Town
Hall. There are high ladders about the
corridors, and on last Wednesday there
were men busy on the little bird-cage lift.
Among Mrs. O’Dea’s visitors were Mrs.
J. R. Adams, wife of Britain’s Trade
Commissioner, and Mrs. Croft, wife of
Canada’s Trade Commissioner. Mrs. W.
Holman, who has just finished two more
books, was there, her soft woolly coat
a rich Gobelin-blue. Mrs. Keith Morris,
Mrs. Roland Foster, Mrs. Carl Wilson
and Aileen Alpen, Gladys Hartt, Mrs.
George Tosi, Mrs. Shebea, whose
husband is consul for Lebanon, Mrs.
Phyllis Bourke, and Mrs. Ted Scor-
field were in the stream of comers and
goers. Hydrangea-blue crepes caught
with diamante clips at the neckline and a
small hat of white straw were worn by
Mrs. O’Dea. The Town Hall’s Miss
Wedlock was her A.D.C.
Perhaps the shimmering gold curtains,
the burning blue of the skies of Venice
and of Cyprus helped to drain the color
from the Canterbury Student Players’
“Othello.” This was presented by the
players last week at the Conservatorium
to large audiences sprinkled with uni-
versity entities and with students of the
drama. The Girl in the Flat Opposite
thought it pallid Shakspeare, but raved
over the smooth and graceful movements
of the actors, the glorious splash of color
in the final scene where Othello drew
his crimson cloak over the just-smothered
golden Desdemona. The Desdemona of
Brigid Lenehan was a gentle creature of
good looks —her neck alone will capture
Hollywood if she travels that way. The
Con. audience was all for her, and all
but hissed Othello when he did her
in. Producer Ngaio Marsh really does
know how to dress her ladies and gal-
lants of Venice. The glowing Vatican
red worn by the Duke, the dignity of the
white pleated-linen robe of Othello, and
the heralds and the young servitors
brightly attired as in a painting in the
Uffizi Galleries remain in the memory.
Mrs. Bertie Kelly has sent out cards
bidding her friends to a party to cele-
brate her seventy-fifth birthday. This will
be held in the Pickwick Club, Bligh-street,
on January 28 from six to eight o’clock.
The Women’s Pioneer Society has issued
invitations for a reception at their club-
rooms in Market-street today. That,
of course, wouldn’t have any con-
nection with Governor Phillip, would it?
Every now and again during the
Opera season women’s hats have
reared themselves. But they seemed
more obtrusive at Saturday’s premiere of
“Trovatore.” There were one or two of
those little doll hats made in tones match-
ing the frock; there were two at least
with feathers in them, and there were
here and there heads with up-
standing flowers, as though the head were
a terrace adorned with flowering border.
“Trovatore” was a joy. Leonora di
Giulia was grace throughout; Azucena
Minarchi fitted her part like hand and
glove. She kept the listener shuddering
with her to the end. Raffael Lagares was
as noble and tuneful as the romantic
Manrico should be.
The afternoon air in the gardens was
fresh, not to say a little chill, when
Margaret Gillespie and her sister Frances
entertained the Canterbury Student
Players last Sunday. But the Maori-
landers found it very comforting. They
had been, a bus-load of them, to Palm
Beach as the guests of the S.U.D.S.;
they had all lunched at Barrenjoey, and
ended their day in the open with
the garden party. Ngaio Marsh, who
leads the Players, arrived a good
deal later than the others. She seemed
to have expected rain, for over her silk
frock she wore a red silk raincoat. The
party was a grand success. It was
a supper party in the open with plenty
of real food for hungry picnickers. Local
guests included persons interested in
music and the drama, and North Shore
line friends of the Gillespie family.
The Town Hall was like Vesuvius in
eruption at the close of the first half of
last Saturday’s Symphony Orchestral
concert. Franco Ghione, the superb
little conductor of the, Italian Grand
Opera company now in Sydney, led the
orchestra in a programme which included
Italian works not previously heard here.
Lots of his countrymen were in the
packed audience ; so were many of the
opera stars not on duty at the Tivoli,
singer Eleanor Houston among them.
Eunice Gardiner,, too, was there, and
singer Maude Telfer. Mrs. Walter Lan-
dauer, whose . husband t and Maryon
Rawicz give a duo-piano recital on Satur-
day, was another noted.
At a sandwich-and-sherry lunch the
hostesses and guests, mostly writers, fare-
welled Mrs. Hawkes-Mansell and Mrs.
Dorothy Catts last Tuesday. These
two ladies, both members of the
Society of Women Writers, and both
authoresses, voyage to London in the
Orcades. Mrs. Hawkes-Mansell is only
a few months returned from a journey
through the U.S. and Europe.
Dinah Fielding-Jones, who smiles
from this Norton-Trevaire photograph,
has recently returned from Melbourne,
where she captained the Sydney Uni-
versity women’s team at the Inter-
Varsity swimming sports. Dinah has just
passed her first-year medical.
Ballet, of course, was the subject of
conversation at the sherry-party given
by Frances Scully at Romano’s last
Thursday. Examiner for the Rqyal
Academy, London, Ruth French is turn-
ing her face towards England again, and
ballerinas and ballet teachers down in
Sydney for summer classes were among
the guests. Many of these dancing girls
came from as far north as Queensland.
Anne Roberts and Mrs. Hardie were two
bright sylphs from Townsville. There
were other attractive girls from Glad-
stone, from Newcastle, Northern Rivers
way, and from Sydney itself. Miss
French was very touched by the gift of a
tiny platinum wrist-watch from the girls.
The Dominion Monarch, gay with
flags under a blue sky, came to berth last
Wednesday at Darling Harbor —a mile
or so of ship along the wharf. It was all
there in the afternoon when three or four
hundred guests boarded her at the invita-
tion of her captain, Sir Henry Gordon.
This hero has bright-blue eyes, a slight,
trim figure, and his coat is blazoned with
decorations. Shipping men tell with pride
of his taking the Dominion Monarch out
of dry-dock in Singapore while the
Jap bombs were raining down. The
ship’s engineer, too, got a decoration for
that. This was one of the many gallant
war exploits for which the captain was
knighted.
Then there is Mr. Burtonshaw, the
chief steward, making the last of his 38
voyages to Australia. He’s an old friend
of The Bulletin and at one time a
paragraph contributor. He is very fond
of the ship, and knows every bit of wood-
work in her; the primavera panels with
sycamore mouldings in the restaurant ;
the panelling in the lounge, which was
submerged in the Thames for over a
hundred years, being the original pilings
of Waterloo Bridge. The Monarch has,
of course, the usual miles of lounge,
verandah cafes, writing-rooms, billiard-
rooms, bars and palm courts to which
most of us are thoroughly unaccustomed
at home. But best news of all to
travellers —there’s lots of room for
voyagers to get away from one another.
Pilgrimage was made to Doc. Evatt’s
suite—it was the great game of the after-
noon. As the afternoon wore on arid the
hospitality grew brisker, one wondered
just how many glasses the Mbnarch: pos-
sessed. Women exclaimed over the color-
scheme of the furnishings.; in .particular,
the pale-golds and greens in the drawing-'
room fascinated. Mrs. W. R. Donald-
son, wife of the general-manager in Aus-
tralia, was with Mrs, Keville, whose hus-
band is general-manager in London. Her
frock of navy and white was topped by
a small platter hat in white that would
delight Hugh Beresford. The R. J.
Bartleys came—her black frock was made
with an unusual berthe effect banded in
white. Hydrangea-blue was the suit
worn by the Leslie Morshead lady. The
Evas, of Shaw-Savill fame, were there,
and Marine Superintendent Captain
Mobb. With her smart navy-and-white
suit, Mrs. H. J. Brady wore a white satin
straw beret; Brigadier and Mrs. Pulver,
Anne Keville were among the many; so
were Mr. and Mrs. J. H. Gatts.
From Melbourne
At the Town Hall reception for the
great Dutch athlete Fanny Blankers-
Koen, Sir Raymond Connelly, in the
absence of the Lord Mayor and the
Lady Mayoress, Mrs. J, S. Disney, did
the honors. An upswept black straw hat
made neat alliance with Mrs. Disney’s
black tailored suit, Mrs. Alec Hay, in a'
black ensemble, and Lady Wales, whose
navy jacket-suit had navy and white
floral silk lapels, were among the many
guests.
Naval officers formed a guard of
honor at Christ Church, South Yarra,
when Robin, second daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. Edward Hill, of Flemington,
was married to Lieut. Peter Hamilton
Wilson, R.A.N., elder son of Mrs.
Roland Wilson, of Frankston, and the
late Mr. R. Wilson. The bride’! gown
of heavy white satin was embroidered
with gold thread around the scalloped
edge of the Peter Pan collar and cuffs.
Her full-length filmy tulle veil was held
in place with a coronet of twisted pearls,
and from her ivory-bound prayer-book
fell a trail of gardenias. Janice Hender-
son and Peg Robinson were her attend-
ants; their white silk chiffon frocks had
gold accessories, and in their hair were
pinned gardenias and gold leaves. The
best man was Lieut. Hugh Wheeler,
R.A.N., and Lieut. Ron Brasch, R.A.N.,
was groomsman.
, The reception was held at the New
Alexandra. Mrs. Hill’s dinner-gown of
mist-blue satin was patterned in a self
spot; her small hat was flower-trimmed.
With her blue frock Mrs. Wilson wore
a wide-brimmed black straw hat lined
under the brim with matching blue. Mrs.
Norman Robinson’s dinner-gown was of
blhck crepe. Surgeon Captain Woolcott
and Mrs. Woolcott and their son, who
has just completed his final Arts year,
were guests. Kathleen Grey Smith came
from Mornington for the wedding; her
gown was patterned in autumn tonings-
Smart young matrons Mesdames John
Mitchell and Marshall Gibson were
gowned in white crepe. Brilliant silver
embroideries decorated Mrs. G. Hume’s
black gown. Ruth Singleton, who had
just announced her engagement to Lieut.
Hugh Wheeler, was in florals. Val
Bodycomb added a glittering gold-sequin
scarf to her gold-toned taffeta frock.
June Broun is in the right job as an
executive officer with the Australian
Guild of Fashion Designers. June was
press liaison-officer when Madame Caro-
line Chambrelen brought out the last two
French fashion-shows, and she has also
organised beach-parades in Sydney. A
lot of her time will be spent travelling
between the capitals, for the aim
of the Guild is to spur Australian
designers into creating styles which will
be becoming to all types of the Aus-
tralian figure. Born in Invferell (N.S.W.),
June’s ambition is to organise her own
fashion-school, with business-girls for her
pupils. Her early training in sport and
her experience with French mannequins
have fitted her admirably for her job
of popularising the easy planning of
wardrobes. Photo, by Athol Shmith.
\ Among the 18 new shades which will
delight the hearts of knitters this winter
are burnt-brick, exotic-orchid, red-wine,
Cabafet-blue, rhumba-red, iced-coffee,
glory-pink, cantaloupe and wistaria-blue.
A wool that has been off the market since
before the war comes back again into
fashion and gives the completed garment
a boucK finish. Following on the lines of
smart tailored suits, a knitted jacket with
a flared peplum was the subject of a
recent display, and twin-sets showed the
jackets with a straight line, as well as the
ever-popular buttoned cardigans. The
Magyar sleeve, now coming back into
fashion, is also used in knitted garments,
and in one jumper the bodice and sleeves
were both knitted in one piece. Although
American ’teen-agers are fast discarding
the “sloppy Joe” type of jumper, there
was one in this display, worked in a Fair
Isle “hare-and-tortoise” design. More
designs for the ’teen-ager included a ski-
ing set of cap, gloves and pullover in a
delightful design. Most original was a
jumper for baby, with the sleeves and
mitts all worked in one. Also an excel-
lent idea was the combination hood and
cape in plain and fancy bands. Knitted
stoles, which drape over the shoulders and
match either skirt or knitted cardigan,
are news in winter fashions. With a grey
skirt and pullover, the matching stole is
lined either with primrose-yellow or
brilliant-scarlet. With a cerise-toned
fully-flared velveteen skirt, a black knitted
blouse gives high contrast, and for late-
afternoon parties what could be smarter
than a flame jersey skirt, cut with a high
waistband and with unpressed hip-pleats,
and worn with a black knitted blouse with
a high collar and bracelet-length sleeves?
A lovely full-skirted gown of white
satin, with a heart-shaped neckline out-
lined with diamante beads, was worn by
Helen Ruth, youngest daughter of Mr. A.
Michaelis, M.L.A., and Mrs. Michaelis, of
East St. Kilda, for her marriage to Alan,
third son of Mr. and Mrs. Henry Marks,
of Brighton, at the St. Kilda Synagogue.
The full-length Honiton-lace veil was held
in place with a coronet of orange-blos-
soms and she carried a bouquet of water-
lilies and stephanotis. Joan Michaelis
and Eva Marks were the bridesmaids ;
their bouffant frocks were of ice-blue
chiffon and they carried bouquets of blue
and mauve hydrangeas. Charles Marks
was best man and Neil Marks grooms-
man.
Three of the leading ladies of the cast
of “Oklahoma” were at the supper party
given by the Frank Taits for the American
members of the new big musical show.
Twenty-two-year-old Carolyn Adair, a
petite brunette, plays the role of Laurie ;
small and dark Louise Barnhart will use
her pleasing husky voice in the amusing
part of the girl-next-door, Ado Annie ;
Davie Gladstone, a tall and very chic
redhead, is the Aunt Ellie of the piece.
Black sequins highlighted the ankle-length
black crepe frock worn by Mrs. Frank
Tait. Among Americans at the party
were the U.S. Consul-General, Samuel J.
Fletcher, and Mrs. Fletcher, Mrs. Harold
Rablmg and Mrs. Gerald Bacon. Well-
known teachers of the ballet, sisters Eileen
and Jennie Brennan, were there with the
producer, Edward Hammerstein, and Mrs.
Hammerstein, the ballet-mistress of this
eagerly-awaited production, Genze de
Lappe, and actor-singer Robert Chis-
holm, who is back here on family busi-
ness and will return to his radio- and
stage-work in America when it is com-
pleted.
Uncertainty of the weather for the
Moonee Valley races on Saturday
toned down the dressing, which
generally favored middleweight en-
sembles. Among the devotees of
the navy jacket-suit were Mrs. Ned
Hogan, Mrs. Bill Gluth, Mrs. H. De Wolf
and Mrs. R. Cameron and her daughter
Keera. Doris McFadgyen’s Hardy Amies
suit was of brown-coal hopsack, the long
velvet lapels outlined with brown beads ;
her brown hat was trimmed with cocq
feathers. Her sister, Maud, wore a navy
“tent” coat and matching felt beret. A
bright red bolero suit and navy-and-
white-spot blouse was worn by Mrs, Len
Voss Smith with a white hat trimmed
with blue velvet. A waist-length red
bolero worn over a black frock and with
a small black hat was the choice of
Roberta Mcßeath. June Manson’s green
corduroy-velvet coat was full-length.
Sonia O’Brien’s dusty-pink Angora coat
was relieved with a nigger-brown straw
hat and accessories. Red-and-white
candy-striped taffeta fashioned the bows
and lined the under-brim of the beige
straw hat worn by Mrs. M. Copolov
with her beige-wool suit. Lucy Canny
had London-tan accessories for her forest-
green suit.
Mrs. Alan Kettlewell’s ensemble
was mist-blue, and the same shade
of flowers trimmed her black hat. A
small natural-felt hat topped the navy
suit of Mrs. John Gallagher. Yellow and
navy-floral. and a gold-toned straw hat
distinguished Mrs. Don Sutherland.
Dusty-pink corded silk was used on the
lapels of the black crepe coat-frock worn
by Vera Pritchard with her small black-
veiled straw hat. Mrs. Norman Shep-
herd’s tailored fawns had brown acces-
sories. The edges of Mrs. Arthur Drake-
ford’s navy jacket-suit were edged with
white to match her hat-trimming.


BOARD OF DIRECTORS
A. E. Bond, Chairman
F. H. Way, Vice-Chairman
Cecil H. Doyle F. ¥. Hixson, 0.8. E., V.D.
G. Moncrieff Barron, 0.8. E., M.B.Ch.M.,
FJR.A.C.S.
J. R. Faviell
Manager: N. L. Shaw
Asst. Manager: C. N. P. Whittle
■■AFFECTED BY THE
m
FASSACE IF TIDE
Your assurance of safe and efficient
ESTATE ADMINISTRATION
By appointing the Permanent Trustee Company as your Executor and Trustee, you
are guaranteeing for your dependants the smooth, safe and efficient administration
of your Estate.
With 60 years’ experience, the Company is able to meet the exigencies of Trustee-
ship with a promptness and ability not to be expected from a private individual. It
is a specialist in the management of all classes of Estates and Trusts; it brings to
the administration of your affairs a staff of highly qualified officers, specially trained
to meet the complex requirements of Trusteeship.
Write for our free booklet , “Trust Estates and Their Management .”
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W. LID.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
THE SERVICE MAN
"Crucial Significance."
“Ek Dum”; The attempts to
“settle” the Indonesian question
have been continued with more
vigor, if not with success, at
Delhi.
The conference there was
summoned in the second week
in January, the only completely
white nation asked being Aus-
tralia Maoriland’s Govern-
ment is kept in office by Maori
votes. The countries asked
were: ;
Afghanistan, Syria, Lebanon,
Iraq, Iran, Saudi Arabia, the
Yemen, the Hedjaz, Ethiopia,
Turkey, Pakistan, Burma, Gey-
lon, the Philippines, Siam, Nepal,
China, Australia and New Zea-
land, Egypt.
The list was issued from
Delhi in that order. The Turks
sensibly decided to stay at
home.
The remaining “democracies”
were assured that India was not
inviting this gathering of strange
States to form an Asian bloc.
There was a deal of talk by
“spokesmen” about holding the
conference within the frame-
work of the Charter of the
United Nations —one of the
“nations” had just received a
knockout blow from the Com-
munists in China, one other was
facing risk of a breaking-up
(Burma), India and Pakistan had
been clandestinely fighting each
other in Kashmir, and the five
Arab States came fresh from
war which, as members of Dr.
Evatt’s U.N.O. Assembly, they
should naturally deprecate. The
framework of the Charter of
U.N.O. seemed in the light of
the facts likely to fall on the
heads of those who work
within it.
The spokesman went on to
emphasise that since Australia
and New Zealand had been in-
vited it showed that the con-
ference had no racial bias—he
did not say whether Australia
and N.Z. had, in fact, been in-
vited to prove that very fact to
the world.
It was emphasised that the
conference was being held “not
to supersede the activity of the
Security Council,” but “merely
to strengthen the hands of the
Security Council by assuring it
of the Asian countries’ support
in dealing with Dutch de-
fiance or evasion of the Security
Council’s proposals.”
Two points were noticeable in
this simple exposition. One is
that the conveners obviously ac-
cept Australia and New Zea-
land as Asian countries. The
other is that the Security Coun-
cil apparently needs somebody
to “put resolution into its reso-
lutions.”
Its transactions at Lake Suc-
cess on the eve of the Delhi
Conference showed that it cer-
tainly refused a blood-and-bone
transfusion.
Early in the week a proposal
which the U.S. delegates put
forward to deal with the
matter lapsed for want of
support, and by January 20
the whole question seemed to
have folded up. Because of the
failure of any member to pro-
duce a resolution which could
be debated the Council meeting
was adjourned till the follow-
ing day to allow the U.S. to
attempt a watering-down of its
ideas to a point at which they
would have some sort of sup-
port.
Meanwhile events connected
with the Delhi conference were
proving how guilefully Asiatic
Australia had become.
Australia’s Dr. Burton and
Mr. Moodie having gone abroad
for the jirgd. Pandit Nehru an-
nounced that Australia was one
of the 15 nations with full vot-
ing status at the conference,
New Zealand, Siam, China and
Nepal having elected to sit on
the sidelines.
Mr. Dedman, with true totali-
tarian reticence, refused to say
whether this was so, a remark-
able position in view of the fact
that it had been understood that
the two delegates were only on-
lookers with no authority to
commit the Government.
Dr. Evatt, franker than his
colleague, said that the Delhi
Conference was of “crucial sig-
nificance” and that it “was com-
parable with the regional meet-
ings held in Western Europe, in
Latin America and elsewhere.”
He declared that Dr. Burton and
his camp-follower were entitled
to take part in the conference
proceedings, but had no general
power to commit Australia to
any course of action.
From this it is clear that
Dr. Evatt is quite prepared to
consider this country part of
Asia and to agree that its
regional policy shall be deter-
mined by conferences of coun-
tries like those now meeting.
Having heard Dr. Evatt, the
delegates immediately began to
commit Australia by agreeing to
participate in the proceedings
which showed how specious had
been the Indian assurance a
few days before that there was
no racial bias, since the first
thing Dr. Nehru did at the meet-
ing was to launch a tirade
against nations”
meaning white nations —whom
he warned:
Your days in the Far East are
numbered. Asia has for too long
been submissive, dependent, and
the plaything of others. No
onger will she brook interfer-
ence with her freedom.
This disturbing utterance
brought Dr. Burton to his feet
to say that the conference had
but a single object, the settle-
ment of the Indonesian prob-
lem, and should not go beyond
it. He, however, seemed to
disagree violently with his fel-
low-delegate to the Security
Council, Colonel Hodgson—in
fact, a complete climb-down
from the Colonel’s violent and
unwarranted denunciation of
the Dutch. Me said Australia
felt that a mistake had been
made which had cost lives and
brought about suffering not
only for the Indonesians but for
the Netherlands, which had
already suffered much.
Australia next sat down with
the representatives of Pakistan,
India and Ceylon on a drafting
committee.
It was reported over the week-
end that some of the Asiatic
countries will be likely to call
for sanctions against the
Dutch.
If the conference has any sig-
nificance it is shocking that Aus-
tralia should be involved in it.
In any case, if Australia is repre-
sented, it should be by a Minis-
ter and not by a civil servant
who has so many irons in the
fire that he is hurrying back to
try to gain nomination as a
“Labor” .politician in a seat in
which he will be without a
vote.
A “Constructive Part”
The conference earned Aus-
tralia a lecture from Mr. Nehru
on its emptiness, combined with
a hint that only Asiatics could
give it population on a large
scale.
“Look,” said Mr, Nehru,
“what the Jews have done in
Palestine.”
He forgets that Australia has
no snow water and no big rivers
over the greater part of its area.
Apparently Dr. Burton and his
colleague did not have sufficient
knowledge of Indian geography
to lead them to retort:
“Look what the Indians did
“Get back to your engines, chief —this is an
upper-deck job.”
with the Punjab aver thousands
of years—until British enterprise
came in and gave it monster
irrigation schemes. Look what
India has done with her vast
open spaces of the north-west
away from Himalaya water.
Nothing! Nothing! ”
The important point was that,
the matter of White Australia
being foreign to the subject for
which the conference was called,
the Australian Government was
apparently asked to accept the
position that its internal policy
has become a matter of domestic
concern to x its colleagues in the
Asian bloc just as much as in-
ternal policy in Indonesia.
It has, in addition, ceased to
show even the outward pretence
of being neutral on the Indo-
nesian question. It is now one
of a boiling of the Governments
of Asian nations which has de-
cided that all the right is with
the Japanese-collaborators of
Jogjakarta and pledged itself to
work to bring about certain
events, including (1) the release
not only of the Republican
leaders but of all political
prisoners in Indonesia, some
of them Communists and
dangerous anarchists; (2) the
handing-back of Jogjakarta
and Republican communica-
tions to the Republican Gov-
ernment ; (3) the withdrawal
of Dutch forces from Republican
“territory,” under conditions to
be decided by the group of busy-
bodies which goes under the
name of the “Good Offices Com-
mittee” ; (4) all restrictions on
trade with the Indonesian area
to be removed, and the Repub-
lican “Government” to have the
full right of communication with
the outside world and full
control of external affairs.
In fact, the conference stands
pledged to the complete sur-
render of the Dutch on every
point, with a completely Indo-
nesian Government, the imme-
diate withdrawal of all Dutch
troops, elections to be held sub-
ject only to U.N.O. supervision
—they will be like Polish and
Bulgarian elections, of course.
All these provisions are, if the
conference has its way, to be
enforced under the Security
Council and its Good Offices
Committee.
Thewhole was salted with a
resolution that the Netherlands
had defied the Security Council
and failed to give effect to its
resolutions.
To all this the Australian dele-
gates were not only party —they
assisted in drafting the resolu-
tions.
Whatever crayfishing there
may be at Canberra, the other
“nations” involved will un-
doubtedly understand that we
are committed.
As Mr. Nehru said, “Australia
played a constructive part.”
Wives Will Disagree
One set of people whom Dr.
Evatt will not find agreeing with
his policy are the Australian
wives of “Netherlanders, Indo-
nesians and Eurasians” in Java,
Several of them wrote to the
Melbourne “Herald” a few days
ago, expressing their “shame” at
the actions of this country:
“For three years the Dutch had
negotiated with the Republic to make
it join the other federal States and
hasten formation of the U.S.I, But
the Republic wanted immediate in-
dependence and withdrawal of the
Dutch armed forces. It left the Dutch
only two possibilities open: (1) With-
drawal of its troops from Indonesia,
leaving the population to the fate of
a corrppt Government that indulges
in opium-trade and has, an army with
Japs and Germans among its fore-
most leaders, or (2) Enforcing the
by action.
“The past has shown that possi-
bility (1) is excluded. The many
cowardly, murders of innocent people
to which numberless crosses on scat-
tered fields all over Indonesia bear
silent witness are still too fresh in
one’s memory. To give in would be
to repeat the past. And as for possi-
bility (2), the Dutch sought more
peaceful ways of coming to an un-
derstanding with the Republic.
“The Dutch were very patient.
For months they allowed Republican
troops to percolate into federal areas
and organise well-planned attatks on
trains, plantations and even cities. >.
“One has to be on the spot to
realise a terror such as this, When
people in small places live under the
strain of wondering whether each day
will be their last.
“Do you know how it feels to travel
in a train or a bus and wonder all
the way whether it will be derailed of
whether you will be shot at? Can
you think anybody human who de-
liberately derails trains, blocks roads
and then fires at close range on the
helpless occupants?
“For Australian waterside workers
to boycott the Dutch is to help a
‘nationalism’ that is, in fact, terror-
ism.
“Today the ‘police action’ is over,
and with it the Dutch have Wrought
the same freedom, happiness and wel-
fare as it did to earlier-gained areas.
Wherever the Dutch come the popu-
lation welcome them, and already
they are working for them in full co-
operation and the belief that it can
only be for their own good and that
of their country.”
Our Burmese Ally.
“Ek Dum”: While Asian
nations are considering the Indo-
nesian question amid a flurry of
belligerent resolutions aimed at
throwing the white races out of
the world’s largest continent,
some of its integral parts are as
usual in serious trouble which
must make even Dr. Evatt
wonder at intervals whether he is
in the right galley.
Burma is one of them. Its
post-war history is about average
for the bulk of Dr. Evatt’s
bosom friends and associates.
When the war ended rebel-
lious elements who had gone
over to the enemy came back to
Burma. Some of them even
came back a little earlier. One
of these was U Aung San, who
had been leading a Burmese
division in the Japanese Army.
He came back in Japanese uni-
form in 1944 when he realised
that Nippon was bound to lose,
and was accepted—very unwisely
—by the Allies. His bodyguards
remained in Japanese uniform
right up to his death.
Naturally, the x new British
“Labor” Government being what
it was, and U.S. sentiment being
at that time in line with Aus-
tralian and Russian in a desire
to grant “freedom” to any mob
of Asiatic adventurers who asked
for control of a section of the
British Empire, Burma was
handed over to these thugs and
a few others. The handing-
over was made in the name of
“democracy,” whereafter each
of the new democrats reached
for the weapon which happened
to be handiest and waded into his
neighbor.
From 1946, when the colla-
borator. Government was in-
stalled, the Communists were in
revolt, but these Communists
were allegedly a different type
of Communists from those which
later broke loose after Burma
had been given its “liberty” and
had acquired Major-General U
Aung San (formerly of the


Public Notices.
I, LUIGI STELLA, of Italian nationally,
born at Gallic, Italy, and resident 22
years in Australia, now residing at 136
Foveaux Street, Surry Hills, Sydney, in-
tend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality Act, 1920-1946.
I, MARIA THEMELIS MACAROUNAS,
of Greek nationality, born at Calymnos,
Dodecanese Islands, Greece, and resident
nine years in Australia, now residing at
150 Campbell Street, Surry Hills, Sydney,
intend to apply for naturalisation under
the Nationality Act, 1920-1946.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP"NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO HERBERT VICTOR MORRIS late of
Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that FANNY
LOUISA CLYDESDALE MORRIS has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4866 of
1948 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce Regis-
try Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the 4th day of April 1949 and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge
from J. GORNEY, Solicitor, of 29 Bligh
Street, Sydney.—(l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
/vt Smoother Shaves/
N
m
-
■H
' I. W W X '
GEM^e
If you have a sensitive skin you’ll appreciate the
smoother shave you get with Gem. The Gem razor
automatically shaves clean at skin level and the heavy
superkeen Gem blade copes with the toughest beard
without trace of drag.
Take home a Gem set tonight, including a Gem
Razor and two Gem double
life blades in a serviceable
Bakelite box. Price is only
V-
There's a smile
in every blade.
&
\>
AVOW 'SO'm.OCK SftAOOW'
R N 4^
E
■ -
n
m
D
a
©
<9
s
'Nkxi
Ss
-Rf
COCKTAI
The few moments before dinner
wnen guests arrive become smooth, gay,
informal over cocktails.
Here’s one with a
twinkle in its eye.
m
X
rs
add
ice,
fbroK-en
full
hall
juice
haher
range
pm
fresh
l
ful
adine
oon
teasp
Gien
of
ful
oon
mint
teasp
ndet
of
te
utn
prig 9
Veil 1 ' 0
Sv/eet
lass
lass
Gin
cht»
Vlc^et s
CO
lni°
las»
train
ell
Sha^e
A
m
n
SEND FOR THE FREE VICKERS GIN
RECIPE BOOK
Recipes of sixty popular, appetising and easy-to-
mix cocktails have been brought together in
this invaluable FREE book. A copy will be
forwarded to you with pleasure if you write to
The United Distillers Pty. Ltd., P.O. Box 759 G,
Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
ICKERS GIN
FAMOUS SINCE 1750
VG2S/33
Imperial Japanese Army) as
Premier.
Presently Mr. Aung San was
assassinated, and most of his
Cabinet crossed the Styx with,
him in the same batch. Later
Mr. U Saw, another former
Premier and Japanese colla-
borator, was hanged for com-
plicity in the murder of these
democrats.
Next, in February last, six
members of the second Com-
munist party in Burma —the
White Flag party—came back
from the Asian Communist con-
gress at Calcutta, at which Aus-
tralia was represented by Mr.
Sharkey, and began to execute
a concrete plan. First they
attempted to disorganise the
country through strikes. On
April 1 a rebellion began.
Their line was that now being
advocated in India —that all ties
with Britain must be completely
scrapped, so that Burma’s
associations should become
wholly Asian. In effect Russia
was to be substituted for Britain
as a national inspiration.
Mr. Thakin Nu next came
forward with a national pro-
gramme. Part of it was a pro-
vision that the tenets of Karl
Marx, Lenin, Stalin and Mao
Tsz, the Communist leader in
China, should be taught in all
schools. This even Burma could
not stomach, but otherwise the
heart of his platform was
adopted—it was calculated to
turn Burma into a Marxist State
about as benighted as Persia in
the sixteenth century.
At this stage the People’s
Volunteer Organisation raised its
banner. Its nucleus consisted, in
the main, of the gentry whom
Mr. Aung San had brought
home in Japanese uniforms and
who, until his death, had con-
tinued to form his private army.
These were resisted by some
of their comrades who were pre-
pared to stand by the Govern-
ment. In real fact, both sides
were engaged in round dozens
and twenties in old-fashioned
dacoity, plundering villages and,
if not exactly “filling old ladies
with kerosene,” threatening
realistically to do so.
This went on while Parliament
met occasionally within a ring of
bayonets and machine-guns, a
cordon to keep out Shans.,
Karens, White Bands and
straightout Communists, all bent
on slitting somebody’s throat,
even if it was not always the
same neck aimed at.
There were at that period five
Burmese battalions in the new
“nation’s” army. Early in
August the Ist Battalion Burma
Rifles and a company of the 3rd
Battalion mutinied, apparently
under the influence of Com-
munist officers. They swept
down on Rangoon, thus setting
an example to other Bo da
Thones, some of them “warriors
bold” and some not.
The Karens and the Shans
have both since had their say, the
Karens having seized towns like
Moulmein and Thaton and de-
manded the creation of a
separate State, Meanwhile
Thakin Nu, who is without
doubt a Marxist by conviction
whatever else he pretends to be
to placate moderate public
opinion, has been shouting
propaganda about British Im-
perialism and its machinations
to upset the “freedom” which
Burma supposedly has gained as
a reward for collaboration with
the Japanese.
Last week the position was
dangerous, and looked peri-
lously like civil war in Lower
Burma.
Though a regional autonomy
commission has been operating,
and though the Burmese C.-in-C.,
Lieutenant-General Smith Dun,
is a Karen, and the Karen
National Union professes to be
supporting the Government,
there was plenty of physical evi-
dence that some Karens and
members of a tribe appropri-
ately known as the Mongs were
taking direct action and haras-
sing railways and roads, thus
duplicating the condition of
affairs in the urban regions of
Manila, the capital of another
of Dr. Evatt’s great allied coun-
tries, where it is impossible to
move about at night without run-
ning a grave risk of being shot
up by insurgents or bandits.
A suspicion began to develop
that this activity was more or-
ganised than appeared on the
face of it. And Mr. Thakin
Nu, who had been up in the
north lecturing the Shans along
the Chinese border, returned at
the week-end faced with an an-
nouncement by the Regional
Autonomy Inquiry Commission
that it recognised in principle the
equity of the Karen demand for
a separate State.
On January 20 Mr. Thakin
Nu resigned. Whoever takes his
place will have the job of satisfy-
ing a million and a quarter
Karens, and an equal number of
Shans and a few Kachins. It
will be a headache for anybody.
The detailed findings of the
regional commission will be
published about the time the
Burmese return from Delhi,
where they have been helping to
settle the affairs of Asia.
Temporarily, the war appears
to be over in the north of
China, Chiang Kai-shek has said
farewell, the Chinese Com-
munists apparently have control
of Tientsin and Peking, even if
they are not yet fully occupied,
and, at the moment of writing,
are on the approaches of
Shanghai and Nanking. The
Chinese National Government in
its death-throes under its acting-
president, Li Tsung-jen, has
agreed to “negotiate” on the
Communist terms, which em-
brace the declaration of a long
list of war criminals that includes
Chiang Kai-shek and Madame
Chiang Kai-shek. Mao Tsz de-
mands absolute surrender, fail-
ing which he promised to drive
to the borders of Burma. The
Kremlin refused to act as
mediator during the week on the
ground that the U.S.S.R. made
it a policy never to interfere wdh
the internal affairs of another
country. Eventually the Gov-
ernment will become nakedly
Communist, its policy openly
dictated by Russia—that is, if
Communism has not been
swallowed up in the pulpy mass
of Chinese humanity.
* * * *
The events in Israel over the
week-end were worthy of a
comic-opera. Mr. Bevin, who
seemed to be in for a bad day in
the House of Commons for hav-
• dared t 0 show a little
‘?lJh in dealing with the
Btren B m in dea * m g wim in
Israehs, produced a rabbit out
he hat in the form of a sug-
gestion that Britain would
recognise Israel as a nation, and
the United States followed with
rumor that the White House
would recognise Transjordania.
France foreshadowed recogni-
tion of Israel as a prelude to
yesterday’s Israeli elections. It
can be taken for granted that
within a month or two now
Israel and Australia will be
working together, along with
Nicaragua, El Salvador and
Lebanon, settling the world’s
destiny.
* * * ♦
The first camps and bivouacs
of the new Citizen Forces will
be held within the next month or
so. Some of them will have to
be carried out with very thin
manpower, but generally speak-
ing the officers have done a
wonderful job in recruiting and
are almost entirely to thank, since
the squandering Government
advertising campaign was a
dreadful failure. In N. S. Wales
the enlistments all point to
the value of a “bit of brass” in
the conduct of affairs. The
Scotties with their kilts have
been so successful that they are
actually reported to have a wait-
ing-list, while battalions without
their glamor are far below them
in strength. The 30th Battalion
(Black Watch) is 88.88 p.c. full;
sth Infantry Brigade H.Q., 8C
p.c.; H.Q. Bth Infantry Brigade,
64.7 p.c.; sth Field Regt., 77.23
p.c,; 45th Battalion (M.G.), 58.8
p.c. Over the figures of some
other units it is better to draw a
veil.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
STALIN ON REVOLUTION.
V /
In its current number the
American quarterly “Foreign
Affairs” publishes as its main
feature, under this heading, a
40-page article, signed “Histori-
cus,” on which N. Y. “Times”
has editorially commented: “It
can claim special authority be-
cause it is based on Mr. Stalin’s
own writings, and because it is
being confirmed daily by Soviet
policy, to which it furnishes the
key.”
A careful, detached analysis
of Stalin’s theories on world
revolution as laid down in the
eight volumes of his collected
works and other writings and
statements, the article’s main
points, summarised, are :
Stalin holds to the conviction
that in Leninist-Marxism he has
a science of human society and
its development in history which
makes possible the prediction—
and, within limits, the engineer-’
ing—of the course of history.
As the leader of Soviet policy
and tactics, Stalin has never
abandoned the idea of world
revolution, nor the idea that
Soviet Russia must actively lead
the revolutionary forces of other
countries in their struggles
against capitalism.
“Tactics of . the moment,”
writes “Historicus,” “may swing
this way or that, but the Marxist
doctrine to which Stalin is com-
mitted is uncompromisingly
revolutionary. In that doctrine
world Communism is the
supreme aim, Soviet power the
major instrument by which it
will be achieved.” That is, Stalin
holds that Soviet Russia must
be the base, guiding and en-
gineering the various movements
in the world revolution (as at
present in Asia), and that as the
base of operations it must be
supreme (hence the enormity of
the Tito heresy, amounting to a
challenge to that doctrine of
supremacy).
Stalin’s theory (he calls it
“dialectical and historical
materialism”) is, in effect, says
“Historicus,” “revolution writ
large into the cosmos ; its basic
postulates are so many reasons
why ‘the bourgeoisie’ are on the
way down and ‘the proletariat’
on the way up, why ‘capitalism’
must inevitably give way to
‘socialism’ everywhere, and why
this must occur by violent revo-
lution.”
A “Final Conflict”
Communism, in the Stalin
theory, is the wave of the future.
The crux of these doctrines
(N. Y. “Times” editorially sum-
marises) is that Communism is
destined to replace a decadent
and doomed capitalist (meaning
democratic) system. The latter
is doomed because of its own
contradictions, which produce a
class struggle between the “pro-
letariat” and the “capitalists”
on the one hand, and inevitable
wars between the capitalist
States on the other. But in order
to hasten the Communist
triumph the Communists must
stir up revolutions wherever
they can, and they can do this
best in the wake of the dis-
organisation caused by war.
They must do so not by try-
ing, except for tactical purposes,
to compromise differences or
reach agreements, like the de-
mocracies, but by exploiting
every difference or clash of in-
terests, even every movement
for reform, to prepare the
ground for revolution.
In that task they must use
every trick and every lie, in dis-
regard of accepted moral
standards, which to the Com-
munists are not based on any
eternal verities but are merely
reflections of the economic con-
ditions of capitalist society.
But the climax of these doc-
trines is the proposition that be-
fore the Communist triumph is
complete it is inevitable that
there should be one last Arma-
geddon between the capitalist
world system led by the United
States and the Communist world
led by the Soviet Union. For
this final conflict the Soviet,
Union must both prepare itself
and extend its marshalling bases,
while at the same time utilising
for that purpose every material
and technical aid available from
the capitalist States.
These preparations (the N. Y.
“Times” editorial summary
adds) may take another 15 to 20
years, during which the Soviet
Union will seek to avert armed
conflict. But the only way in
which the final test can be
averted is for the United States
to surrender in the face of a
growing “Socialist” encircle-
ment.
Aids to Revolution
“It should be stressed,” says
“Historicus,” “that for Stalin the
decisive issue is the substitution
of Socialist ownership and
operation for private ownership
and operation; all other differ-
ences in modern social systems
are of subordinate importance.”
Hence, naturally, the active
local Communist support of the
Chifley moves in that direction
in Australia and of the similar
Attlee moves in Britain; moves
which Stalin would view as
valuable contributions to the
eventual success of Commun-
ism in the objective of world
revolution. (Logically, irt the
“Historicus” reading of the
Stalin doctrine, Chifley and
Attlee would be regarded by
Stalin as minor but useful
stooges.)
As well as the conflict be-
tween bourgeoisie and prole-
tariat as an element in the
struggle (“Historicus” prefers
the word “contradiction” to
“conflict”), the Stalin theory
sees two further “contradic-
tions” now generated within the
capitalist system.
“One of these,” writes “His-
toricus,” “is the international
counterpart of the class
struggle: the great monopolies
seek to exploit the foreign as
well as the domestic field, which
leads to a few powerful capi-
talist countries dividing up the
world as colonial possessions
and spheres of influence. Thus
arises a contradiction within
the capitalist world-economy be-
tween the exploiting imperialists
and the exploited colonies. As
tension rises a revolutionary
crisis develops in the exploited
countries, taking the form
primarily of movements for
national liberation from im-
perialism.” This would, of
course, be the Stalinist interpre-
tation of the happenings around
South-east Asia.
“The other contradiction” —
“Historicus” further interprets
the Stalin theory—“develops be-
tween rival capitalist countries.
Since some evolve more rapidly
than others, they come to de-
mand a larger share of colonies
and spheres of influehce than
the one alloted on the basis of
their former power. Since no
country will voluntarily hand
over part of its present share,
tension mounts until imperialist
war—for example, the First and
Second World Wars —inevitably
breaks out as the sole means of
redividing the world and restor-
ing equilibrium.
“In Stalin’s thinking, the im-
portance of war as a midwife of
revolution can scarcely be ex-
aggerated.”
Economic Crises
Noting that economic crises
have occurred in capitalist coun-
tries every eight to 12 years for
a century, Stalin regards them
as symptoms of the progressive
decay of capitalism at its roots ;
hence, it can be said, they are
to him elements in the predict-
ing of the course of history :
“The fact that Stalin depicts
the crisis of 1929 as the worst so
far in capitalist history, and that
of 1937 as worse still, together
with his general picture of capi-
talism as now in its decadent
phase, suggests that such crises
play an important diagnos-
tic role in Stalin’s estimates of
the degree of deterioration
reached at a given time by the
capitalist system, and also that
he would expect each further
crisis—at the customary inter-
val of eight to 12 years—to be
worse than the last.”
Conditions for Revolution
The “capitalism” of this
Stalin view is now “a single
world system in which the total
interplay of forces determines
the ripeness of conditions for
revolution in particular coun-
tries, revolutions actually occur-
ring where the world front of
capitalism is weakest in relation
to the forces of revolution.”
Stalin himself has written that
“the proletarian revolution must
be regarded primarily as the re-
sult of the development of the
contradictions within the world
— N. Y. “World-Telegram
“NOW WATCH THE LITTLE BIRDIE!”
system of imperialism, as the re-
sult of the snapping of the chain
of the imperialist world-front in
one country or another.”
On the question of when and
where the chain is ready to
break, Stalin quotes Lenin:
''The fundamental law of revo-
lution.... .consists in this; for
revolution it is not enough that
the exploited and oppressed
masses should feel the impossi-
bility of living in the old way
and demand change ; for revolu-
tion it is necessary that the ex-
ploiters should not be able to
live and rule in the old way.
Only when the ‘lower classes’ do
not want the old way and when
the ‘upper classes’ cannot carry
on in the old way—only then
can revolution conquer. This
truth may be expressed other-
wise in the words: revolution is
impossible without a nation-
wide crisis, affecting both the
exploited and the exploiters.”
As that is further interpreted
by “Historicus”; “The bour-
geoisie proper must be bereft of
mass popular support and the
proletariat must have it.”
Further, “Support is not con-
fined to the boundaries of one
country: the local bourgeoisie
must to a considerable degree
be isolated internationally while
the proletariat receives direct or
indirect support from the prole-
tariat [i.e.. Communists] of
other capitalist countries and
from the proletarian State
[Communist Russia] already in
existence. Hence a further con-
dition for successful- revolution
is thdt the balance of potential
outside aid for revolution as
against potential outside aid for
counter-revolution must be suffi-
ciently favorable.
“To sum up, Stalin’s necessary
‘objective’ conditions for revolu-
tion are; bourgeoisie isolated
and disorganised, proletariat
aroused to revolt and supported
by the masses, and a favorable
balance of proletarian as against
bourgeois aid from outside the
country.”
Purges Explained
Stalin’s conception of Marxist
theory, “Historicus” points out,
is his justification for the charac-
ter and organisation of the Bol-
shevik party as opposed to
Marxist parties of the Western
type:
“Because the party is the em-
of ‘scientific’ truth,
and because that truth is uncom-
promisingly revolutionary
teaching that class war must be
fought to a finish —the party
must be ‘monolithic,’ a cen-
trally-controlled army under
strict military discipline, toler-
ating no other parties except for
temporary reasons of expedi-
ency, hunting down and destroy-
ing compromisers—all who are
disposed to take the edge off the
revolutionary drive, to let things
move more gradually—both in
society at large and within its
own ranks.”
“Historicus” makes the
further point in this regard that
the same claim to infallible
“science” lies at the base of
“Stalin’s theory of the party
purge, so strange to Western
modes of thought.” It is the
key, incidentally, to the purges
that have now been going on for
some time in Poland, Rumania,
Albania and the other “iron-
curtain” countries. He quotes
Stalin, “The party strengthens
itself by purging itself of op-
portunistic elements,” and adds:
“A procedure that to Western
minds is a sign and a further
cause of weakness is for Stalin
a means to strength because
strength derives ultimately, not
from numbers, but from ‘know-
ledge’ which harnesses revolu-
tion to the laws of history: the
purge eliminates those whose
allegiance to this ‘knowledge,’
and the programme based on it,
is dubious.”
Russia as a Base
The intention to use Soviet
Russia as the base for world
revolution was early declared by
Stalin; “The goal is to consoli-
date the dictatorship of the pro-
letariat in one country, using it
as a base for the overthrow of
imperialism in all countries.”
That has been “on record in
Stalin’s most important doctrinal
work, repeatedly republished for
mass circulation from 1924 to
the present time.” It is elabor-
ated in another passage which
the writer quotes from Stalin:
the very development of world
revolution will be more rapid and
more thorough, the more thoroughly
Socialism fortifies itself in the first
victorious country, the faster this
country is transformed into a base
for the further unfolding of world
revolution, into a lever for the further
disintegration of imperialism.
While it is true that the final vic-
tory of Socialism in the first country
to emancipate itself is impossible
without the combined efforts of the
proletarians of several countries, it
is equally true that the development
of world revolution will be the more
rapid and thorough, the more effective
the aid rendered by the first Socialist
country to the workers.... of all other
countries.
In what should this aid be ex-
pressed?
It should be expressed, first, in the
victorious country “carrying out the
maximum realisable in one country
for the development, support, awaken-
ing of revolution in all countries.”
It should be expressed, second, in
that “victorious proletariat” of the
one country “after organising its
own Socialist production, should stand
up against the remaining, capitalist
world, attracting to itself the oppressed
classes of other countries, raising
revolts in those countries against the
capitalists, in the event of necessity
coming out even with armed force
agaihst the exploiting classes and their
Governments.”
On that Stalin passage “His-
toricus” comments : “The
supreme aim of world revolution
is the logical outcome of Stalin’s
entire theoretical position..,.,
notably the thesis that capitalism
is a single world-system fatally
torn by contradictions which can
be cured only by a consciously-
directed Socialist revolution.
Granted these assumptions, the
determination to use the foot-
hold won by the Soviet Union
as a base for world revolution is
elementary commonsense.”
Not Yet Ready
As the Stalin passage indi-
cates, the Soviet Union will first
be prepared as a base, and only
then, “after organising its own
Socialist production,” will be
used more aggressively to aid
revolution abroad.
The base, “Historicus” finds
evidence to indicate, may still
not be ready for contemplated
operations.
Stalin’s conception of the
United States as the stronghold
of capitalism, he further finds,
dovetails with Stalin’s picture of
the futun* course of world revo-
lution: “The United States is
expected to be the centre of the
rival world system which finally
must clash with the Soviet sys-
tem until capitalism goes down
and Socialism conquers the
world.”
The Soviet Union having
emerged from the Second World
War in a position to thus serve
as a base for much more active
fostering of revolutionary
movements in other countries,
though not ready to establish
Communism throughout the
world, “indicates a much more
aggressive tactic toward other
countries, but not so aggressive
as deliberately to bring on war
for world hegemony in the im-
mediate future.” As “Histori-
cus” analyses:
“The success of this tactic
would depend in part, according
to Stalin’s theory of revolution,
on the extent to which the criti-
cal areas were isolated from
foreign influences hostile to
revolution. This gives a major
clue to Stalin’s war and post-
war policies toward Britain and
the United States. Many of
them can be regarded as a de-
laying action: by retarding
realisation on the part of those
countries of what is really going
on, then minimising efforts to
intervene as realisation gradu-
ally dawns, they, in effect, tend
to isolate the ‘bourgeoisie’ in the
countries singled but for revolu-
tion until Communist control is
established, Stalin’s profession
of non-aggressive war aims
served to lull suspicion. So did
the dissolution of the Comintern
and his comments thereon. So
did his statements on the possi-
bility of co-existence and co-
operation and the necessity for
unanimity among the big Powers
after the war. These and simi-
lar moves imposed a serious re-
luctance on the part of the
Allies to do or say anything that
could be construed as a breach
in the spirit of war-time col-
laboration. When at last Allied
public opinion began to de-
nounce Soviet or Communist
actions the same statements
served as a basis for a propa-
ganda counter-attack.”
“Historicus” concludes with
the finding, based principally on
the large scale of Stalin’s an-
nounced projects within Russia,
that “other factors aside, the
climactic struggle [i.e., against
the United States as the “strong-
hold of capitalism”] will not be
risked before 15 or 20 years
have elapsed.”
The Stalin theory of world
revolution allows for periods of


ebb and flow in the capitalist
strength. On this basis he ap-
parently expects a stabilisation
of capitalism ahead, followed
some years later by another
“wave of crisis and revolution
generated by capitalism’s inex-
orable contradictions. He ap-
parently is timing completion of
the Soviet base of operations
for this next wave.”
Magna Carta Goes
Home.
Having been on loan to the
U.S. for the past two years, the
Leacock Abbey copy of Magna
Carta is safely back home in the
British Museum.
The manuscript, travelling by
the Cunard White Star liner
Media, was, in the words of the
London “Times” account,
“wrapped in mattresses to keep
it from harm in the event of a
rough passage.” It was kept
locked in the liner’s bullion-
room, and inspected every day
“to see that all was well.”
In the U.S. it was brought to
the ship “in a police-car with
other cars in attendance,” and
“in the presence of an armed
guard was taken to its place of
safety” in the bullion-room.
At Liverpool, Mr. Collins, of
the British Museum, who had
charge of it, carried it ashore in
a suitcase, hailed a taxi to the
railway station and boarded the
London train with it.
E.R.P. Goals.
Looking into the job ahead of
the European Recovery Pro-
gramme, “U. S. News and World
Report” finds that that job—
making Western Europe a going
concern, able to make both ends
meet —has hardly been scratched
yet.
Between now and 1952, when
aid under the scheme is sup-
posed to end, the bigger coun-
tries have to fulfil ambitious
plans on the following lines:
Britain must boost industrial
production, as a whole, by about
25 per cent. Coal must go up
25 pe'r cent.; steel, 14 per cent.;
power production, 22 per cent.
Export target is 25 per cent,
higher than the present level.
Imports also will be up 13 per
cent., but most of this increase
will come from the sterling area.
Fewer things will be bought in
the Western Hemisphere. Based
on these figures, Britain is ex-
pected to balance , accounts, witt
a little to spare.
France must show even bigger
—Minneapolis (U.S.A.) “Star.”
HOUSING PROBLEM.
gains to break even in 1952-53.
Over-all production must rise 40
per cent, above this year’s level.
Coal output must go up 24 per
cent.; steel, 74 per cent.; electric
power, 30 per cent. Plans for a
rise of 75 per cent, in exports,
most of the rise to be in indus-
trial products. Imports will have
to be cut 20 per cent., with the
biggest reductions in food.
The U.S.-British zone of Ger-
many has the biggest job of all.
Bizonia will just about pay its
way by 1952-53 if industrial pro-
duction zooms 64 per cent, to a
point slightly above the 1936
rate. Agricultural output must
reach the pre-war level. Steel
must rise 28 per cent, and coal
34 per cent. Export target is
four times as high as the present
level and 60 per cent, above the
pre-war rate. . And imports are
slated to rise 75 per cent
All that, the U.S. journal com-
ments, adds up to a mighty big
order: “All kinds of trouble are
hidden in these plans. Britain
is expected to buy from the Con-
tinent more than seems likely.
Everybody hopes to buy less but
sell more in the U.S.” There-
fore, “The race for export mar-
kets will be cut-throat.”
Rough on Truman.
Since the Presidential election
most American commentators
have inclined either to kotow
to Mr. Truman or to adopt a
resigned attitude of making the
best of it.
There are exceptions, chiefly
in the Hearst press. Typical
example:
“Mr, Truman is the same man
today that he was the day before
election, a more ingratiating man
by far than Governor Dewey, a
fighter who doesn’t care if he
does tear his pants and get his
glasses busted and doesn’t mind
rolling among the gobboons; a
man so truly of the people that
he figures out what would fool
him if he were in their place and
uses it to fool them.
“The idea that a man who so
recently would play a pliant part
in the inner villainies of an urban
machine, which will live in
history as a great corruption,
could suddenly become a
spiritual crusader for the right,
cannot bear intelligent inspec-
tion.”
China Prospects.
Pointing to the millions of
Chinese who live in countries
south of China (in Malaya half
the population is Chinese), N. Y.
“Herald Tribune” finds “it just
as true today in Asia, as it has
been for hundreds of years,” that
developments in China must
‘Tiave an influence far beyond
that country’s borders”:
“While a victory for the Com-
munists in China would give a
psychological lift to Reds every-
where, including Europe and
South America, the effects would
be strongest in the arc of coun-
tries that run from Indonesia on
the east to India on the west.
In addition, the -Chinese Reds
unquestionably would provide
material assistance, as soon as
they became well established, to
Communists in other Asiatic
countries. This could be of
serious consequence to the
United States, as the welfare of
America’s friends in Europe de-
pends in part on trade with
India, Burma, Siam, Malaya,
Indo-China and Indonesia.”
However, like the great bulk
of current U.S. commentators on
—Atlanta (U.S.A.) “Journal."
UNCLE SHOULD HAVE BEEN TWINS.
the turn of events, the N. Y.
paper comforts itself with the
thought that a Communist con-
quest might turn out to be
a Pyrrhic victory after all, the
Corns inheriting “all (he perplex-
ing problems” that Chiang Kai-
shek’s crowd couldn’t solve :
“Corruption and inefficiency
would not end in China merely
because the country was con-
trolled by the Communists in-
stead of the Kuomintang party.
The Reds also would have to
make at least temporary conces-
sions to cultural patterns in
Chinese society, such as the
strong family system, the desire
for land ownership that exists in
the mind of every peasant, the
persistence of provincial
patriotism and the tradition that
favors compromise as a solution
to all disputes.
“Students of China are con-
vinced that those matters would
create serious trouble for the
Chinese Reds, and even more
trouble for any Russians who
tried to make the Chinese, as a
whole, behave precisely as
Marshal Stalin desired. There is
good cause for doubt that
Moscow would find the hundreds
of millions of Chinese as easy to
handle as the less numerous
Poles and Rumanians. China
has been governed more by tradi-
tion than by firm controls for
many hundreds of years, and the
most diligent and astute Com-
munists would find this habit an
obstacle to formation of a com-
plete*policeState/*^^^^
Middle East Shifts.
British diplomacy, “which re-
mains unusually well-informed
on the Middle East,” is uneasy
about developments there,
according to N. Y. “Times”
staff reports.
Main cause of the uneasiness
is, as would be expected, Soviet
intrigue in that quarter. Mos-
cow is well known to have con-
siderable strength in Israel, not
confined to the murder gangs;
but there are reports also of a
Soviet shift, whereby Russia
would get bases in Syria in
exchange “for tacit assistance
against Israel.”
In both Lebanon and Syria,
the reports further state,
there are many Communist
agents situated in fairly import-
ant Government posts, and
skeleton military organisations
have been quietly formed.
“Both the British, who are
deeply concerned with the
Middle East as a whole, and the
French, who have never lost
their special interest in the
Levant States, are worried and
puzzled.”
As well, the Communist net-
work has spread considerably in
Egypt, “a socially and economi-
cally unhealthy country getting
increasingly ripe for revolution.”
Among the Arabs generally,
however, the Soviet position has
been weakened by the same
cause that makes practically all
Arabs distrustful of U.S. moves:
“Moscow is adroit enough to
realise that its sturdy support
for the case of Israel in the
United Nations, plus its clandes-
tine but substantiated military
support of the Israeli cause
through munitions shipments,
has militated strongly against the
Soviet Union in the Arab
world.”
Hence the probability of
further Soviet moves to win over
lost Arab friendship, needing to
be countered by similar U.S.
moves—a situation in which
much-maligned J. Bull should see
a considerable amount of poetic
justice.
Up to Congress.
Main items on the interna-
national bill of fare to be now
chewed over by U.S. Congress,
perhaps not without dust and
heat: —
1. —A national defence pact
that aligns the United States with
the States of Western Europe.
2. A military programme by
which the United States rearms
Western Europe, much as it is
now reviving it economically
through the European Recovery
Programme.
3. —Another year’s adequate
appropriation for E.R.P. that
will permit the progress made
in its first year to be continued
as planned.
4. —Extension of the 14-year-
old reciprocal trade programme
that aims to eliminate or lower
the barriers to international
trade.
5. American participation in
the International Trade Or-
ganisation, created last year
primarily at American insistence
and aiming to set up rules for
world trade.
Nationalising Loss.
Looking into such figures as
have been made available,
London “Recorder” has found
that these “indicate that loss of
money seems to be one of the
essential factors” in nationalising
of industry:
“For 1947, first year of nation-
alisation of the mines, the coal
industry showed a deficit of
£23,256,000, of which £9,204,000
was colliery operational loss.
This meant a loss of Is. on every
ton of coal.
“In 1946, under private owner-
ship, the industry made a profit
of £15,343,000, or Is. lid. on
every ton of saleable coal.
“Two months after nation-
alisation, increases in the cost of
electricity ranged from 20 per
cent, to 50 per cent, in different
parts of the country.
“Eight months after nation-
alisation the State airlines had
between them lost £10,000,000.
“The profits of Cable and
Wireless, Ltd., nationalised from
January 1, 1947, dropped from
£3,531,000 in 1946 to £1,724,000
in 1947.”
Com. Purges.
The threat of a spread of
“Titoism” has led to a new purge
in the iron-curtain countries
being ordered by the official
journal of the Cominform, pub-
lished at Bucharest:
“As a consequence of the mass
influx of new members and of
the mistakes made in this respect,
serious changes have taken place
in the social composition of the
parties,
“Petty bourgeois elements
have increased considerably, to
the detriment of working-class
composition. Moreover,
bourgeois and reactionary ele-
ments have penetrated into the
parties, as a result of which a
blunting of revolutionary vigil-
ance can be observed in a num-
ber of organisations in some of
the parties.”
There could not be stronger
evidence that all is not as the
Kremlin would like it behind the
curtain.
Dragnet Digest.
Living on Tick— Today, according
to a special-article writer in N. Y.
“Herald Tribune” supplement, no
fewer than 65,000,000 Americans are
paying off loans; they’re all to some
extent living on time-payment. “If,
says the writer, “you’re an American
today and you don’t owe anybody
money, you must rank as a museum
piece.’’
* * * *
The Self -breeding Atom. U.S.
atomic authority Bernard M. Baruch
speaking: “It is not generally realised
that the nature of atomic energy may
make it a conservationist’s dream.-
Unlike any other source of energy,
fissionable material is potentially self-
breeding. Coal and oil burn away
in giving heat. Fissionable material,
though, will create new fissionable
material, even while it is producing
power. The first of these experi-
mental breeder-piles is being designed
now. If it proves sound we will be
able to use atomic energy as if it
were an investment, which would in-
crease itself, even while paying a
steady, compound interest.”
* * * *
Evan’s U.N.O.— Yet another typical
summing-up on the Assembly session
Dr. Evatt presided over; N. Y.
“World-Telegram” staff onlooker Wil-
liam H. Newton: “The most dis-
appointing and fruitless since the birth
of the organisation.”
* * * *
The Uncommon Man. Former
U.S. President Herbert Hoover speak-
ing: “It is a curious fact that when
we get sick we want an uncommon
doctor. If we have a construction
job we want an uncommon engineer.
When we get into war we dreadfully
want an uncommon admiral and an
uncommon general. Only when we
get into politics are we content with
the common man.”
* * * *
Best and Worst Presidents.— ln a
“Life” assessing of them, Lincoln,
Washington, Franklin D. Roosevelt,
Wilson, Jefferson and Jackson come
out as “great’’ U.S. Presidents in that
order. Theodore Roosevelt, Cleve-
land, J. Adams and Polk are similarly
rated “near great.” All the rest,
headed by J. Q. Adams, are rated
“average” except Grant and Harding,
who are dubbed “failures.”
* * * *
“Australia’s Extreme Proposal.”—
N- Y. “Sun,” on the so-called “Aus-
tralian” demand that the Netherlands
should be expelled from U.N.O. over
its action in Indonesia: “Although the
Australians may be technically correct
in calling this ‘the first clear-cut
deliberate violation of the U.N. char-
ter by a member,’ they are correct
only because Russian vetoes prevented
U.N. action on Korea and in the
Balkans—which the Soviet at least
passively violated—-from being official
orders from the Security Council. All
that the course favored by Australia
would indicate is that the U.N.,
powerless when its desires are flouted
by one of the big Powers, can
out one of the smaller nations.
* * * *
The Air-lift. Figures officially
given out for the first six months ot
the air-lift show that 96,640 flight
had been made between the Bntisn
and American zones and the three
airfields in Berlin, and a total oi
700,172.7 tons of food, coal, raw
materials and manufactured goods
had been brought in, an average o
3800 tons a day for the whole period.
There had been seven fatal crashes
of American aircraft and two or
British, Seventeen American and nine
British airmen were killed.
* * * *
Late Enemies as Allies.— Noting
in them yet, perhaps, bn t c °mmen
like the following from John O Hon
nell’s N. Y. “Daily News .column
continue to poke their heads up
some sections of the American P •
“If events continue on me
course of the present, the A
people will have to face up *
grim fact that we’d better start get
ting the manpower of J a P“.,. a
Western Germany and the military
potential of those two tough-fight ng
nations into shape to fight on our side
and under our command. We ca
already hear the bellows from the do-
gooders at the very thought. But
Germans and Japs will figh t w,th . evei }
more fury and with better heart
against the Reds than they d
against us and that is saying
plenty. And we’re just selfish enough,
come the showdown, to want to see
some Jap and German divisions share
the brunt of a Red attack along with
our homegrown Yanks.”


Simon John
BY BRIAN JAMES
MRS. GRIEVE had said at the time
and on the occasion, “I’m sure
he’ll do something worth while in
the world. And the name will be
Simon—Simon John.”
Mrs. Grieve had said the same thing for
all the Others. Not the Simon Johnjjart
of it, of course, but the prophecy of doing
something worth while in the world. So
it didn’t signify, perhaps. Anyway, there
were four others —a girl and three boys,
Simon John being the second-youngest.
And, if anything, Simon John was
stupider than the rest, according to the
gloomier convictions of Mr. Grieve. And
none of them as far as he could see had
yet started to do something worth while.
Simon John was now eight, and a good
sort of boy, too. Perhaps a trifle young to
be condemned for not doing big things.
In a way, however, he was making a name
for himself. In a queer % sort of way,
really, for he had no name. And he
didn’t exist. That is, officially: He had
no legal existence at all, which might not
matter so much, for there was quite a
solid reality t to him to satisfy his parents
on that score. But legally he was just a
myth, an airy nothing to which, for their
own deceitful purposes, the, Grieves had
given a local habitation and a name.
“F'NEAR, oh dear!” said Mrs.
' Grieve one evening when Mr.
Grieve returned from work, and for-
getting to kiss him in her excitement
and bewilderment. “Oh dear! Bob, but
this is a queer document, if you ask me,
and it’s given me quite a turn.”
She was reading, or rather rustling, a
long communication that looked decidedly
official, stiff, formal, starchy and threat-
ening. Official communications these
days always look like that—especially as
Jo the threatening part of it. So Mr.
Grieve was not unduly upset,
“What would it be, now?” says he,
"That’s it. Bob. But I can’t make head
nor tail of it. And we are likely to be
fined an enormous amount, or go to jail,
or both.”
“What’s it about, Jenny; and what
have you done?”
“It’s Simon John.”
“What’s he done?”
“Nothing. And that’s the trouble. The
authorities [Mrs. Grieve said the word
with due reverence and awe]—"the
authorities say there is no Simon John.”
“Nonsense! Take him along and let
them see him.”
“Not so easy as that, it seems,” and
Mrs. Grieve kept turning over the paper
in a despairing sort of way, Mr. Grieve
took the paper to read it. Mrs. Grieve
interrupted freely—“ Can’t you see? I’Ve
been getting the child-endowment for a
non-existent child. And that’s an awful
crime.”
Mr. Grieve’s hackles rose. Child-
endowment had long been a sore point
with him. Ever since a friend of his who
had a brother who used to work “in
Taxation” had “worked it all out,” to
show that one paid a lot more in tax
than one got in endowment. He was a
mild man, Mr. Grieve, but the mention
of endowment always made his hackles
rise in a sort of futile political rage. And
so did the filling-in of taxation returns
and the receiving of assessments. At all
such times meals were taken in a deathly
silence, and the children were earnestly
watchful that they didn’t offend father
in any way.
Now Mr. Grieve perused the document
as well as his rage and Mrs. Grieved
patter would allow.
“They say here that there’s no record
of the registration of Simon John.”
“That’s just it,” said Mrs. Grieve,
already looking guilty under vast official
accusation.
“And that you have been drawing the
flaming endowment for a non-existent
child.”
Mrs. Grieve flared up—“ Just as if I
would do such a thing! Or even think df
it!"
"And,” continued Mr. Grieve in chok-
ing tones, “if the child does exist, then
you are guilty of concealing birth, which,
I imagine, is an even worse cVirrte than
that of defrauding the endowment people.
It looks as if you are in for it, one way
or the other.” „
“And .don’t you come into it at all, Mr.
Bob Grieve?” His fastening of things on
to her had nettled her, in spite of her
quaking fear of the authorities.
“In a way I suppose I do.”
Just then a cricket-ball smashed
through a front window. For a long
moment there was silence within and
without. Then Mrs, Grieve wailed as she
surveyed the damage. “It’s the stained
glass and the leadlights. You can’t re-
place them.”
Mr. Grieve went out to investigate and
to spread terror.
“It was Simon, Dad —he threw the ball
at me.”
“Didn’t!”
“Did!”
“I was throwing at the wicket. And
you threw the ball at me just before.”
“Ooh! That’s a big fib. He threw the
ball de-liberately at me, Dad, And”
'Hie truth in such cases can never be
arrived at. Nor is it n'ecessary
that it should be. In the present case
there was that endowment paper to ensure
a firmer brand of justice being done. All
the boys in sight were thoroughly
spanked. And Simon John seemed no
whit less substantial than the rest.
When Mr, Grieve returned from
punitive expedition and reprisal Mrs.
Grieve had a cup of tea ready. Tea is
always a help.
“But,” said . Mr. Grieve, his feelings
somewhat relieved by the tea and the
spanking he had given the boys, “Simon
John was registered just like the others.”
“Is it at all possible, Bob, that you
forgot?”
“Woman!” said Mr. Grieve, “do you
think I’m a fool altogether?”
“Where did you register him then?”
“Of course I did. Let me see. 4 Margaret
Rose was registered at Wedderburn
before we moved to Sydney, you know.
Alexander at Wedderburn, too. Alan, be-
fore we came to Sydney. There’s no ques-
tion about them, is there?”
“Oh, no, they’re all right.”
“Then William was born down here —
registered at North Wrigley—day after
the bus accident, you remember? You
were at Norfolk Private Hospital. And
you went to ‘The Elms’ at Seven Oaks, for
Simon John —and X registered him at
North Wrigley. And so was Hector —
same day as Aunt Mary called to see
you. So there you are!”
NEXT day,« on Mr. Grieve’s advice,
Mrs. Grieve went to the cdurthouse
at North Wrigley, where registering was
done. A sleek young man, gifted with
awful powers, eyed her with a suspicion
he made no real effort to conceal. Mixed
with this was a deal of certainty, too, of
sharp practices on Mrs. Grieve’s part
against the long-suffering endowment
people. And cohpled with this, grave
dotlbts as to the legitimacy of Simon
John"—if there were such a person.
Mrs. Grieve blushed. “But —but he
was registered here.”
The sleek young man went flick, flick,
flick with leaves of the big book,
“I can assure you, Mrs. Grieve,, that
there is no Simon John Grieve entered
here. There is—yes—William Wallace
Grieve, and Hector Robert Grieve, but
there is no Simon John.”
“Oh, dear!” said Mrs. Grieve, “And
whatever will I do? Someone has made
a mistake.”
“Someone has made a mistake —but it
has not been made here.” The sleek
young man said this with that cold and
lofty assurance that officials must use
when dealing with the blasted public, and
especially with that part of the public that
would foolishly suggest such impossi-
bilities as official mistakes.
Mrs.* Grieve hasfily apologised. Clearly
it was bad tactics to enrage further an
officialdom that was hostile enough
already. “But I can assure you, too, that
there is a Simon John, and that we are
not deceiving the endowment people. I
could easily have brought him along to
show you.”
The deck official, more loftily still,
intimated that he did not need such
ocular proof. “Apparently, madam,”
said he, “you fail to appreciate that the
existence of the child involves you in the
far more serious consequences of conceal-
ment of birth.”
“Gh, dear! Oh, dear!” moaned Mrs.
Grieve. “Why on earth should I want to
■ do that?”
“It is not for me to consider your
motives, madam. I only wish to point out
that the law is clear and definite on the
point. And severe.”
“Oh, dear! I’m sure we never wished
to conceal the birth.”
“That, madam, is quite beside the point.
The fact is you did.”
“Whatever \OUII do?”
The sleek young man shrugged his
shoulders to indicate that he was far
above showing sympathy with the public
in its foolish tangles. Then he closed the
big book with a snap to show that official
time is very valuable time. “You might
go to the Registrar-General’s Department
and inquire there. I think the course
hopeless, for the fact of concealment is
fairly evideht.”
“But why should I?”
“I do not know, madam. I speak of
facts. It is, for a jury to decide the
motives and the circumstances.”
AND so that evening Mr. Grieve found
his wife in a tearful despair, but
ready, too, to take the offensive against
him. “Ydu,” she said, “must have for-
gotten to register Simon John.”
“You haVe said that before —ten times
at least, I certainly did register him.”
“Not at North Wrigley you didn’t.”
“I did register him.” Mr. Grieve was
firm about it —no use letting the women-
folk shove the blame on a man.
William and Alexander were in the
living-room listening to an exciting serial
on the radio. To make, that serial more
exciting, they had the wireless turned on
full blast.
“Turn that off altogether!” shouted
Mr. Grieve. It didn’t seem fair that the
boys should be enjoying themselves while
he was so miserable.
Cessation of wireless brought into
startling prominence a bathroom inter-
lude. Simon John and Hector Robert
were supposed to be removing the dirt
and grime of the day. They pinned great
faith upon the effectiveness of splashing
and slapping each other. Margaret Rose,
from outside the bathroom, was shrieking
orders and warnings. She announced
that tHb water was running into the hall
Her admonitions added greatly to the
enjoyment ‘within. Margaret Rose —
thirteen, and at the high school —had
large capacities for management and
sharp advice, but the boys did not recog-
nise her authority overmuch. She played
her final trump—-“ Look out! Here comes
Dad!”
M OISE ceased and the two listened.
1 N Margaret Rose had cried wolf too
often. But now Mr. Grieve called but in
the midst of the calm —“Out at once—
both of you! ”
Wails and protests. “Haven’t washed
my knees yet, or between my toes.”
“Out, I told you!”
There followed all those scuffling
accompaniments of drying. Margaret
Rose continued to hiss and shriek. Then
the bathroom door flew open most un-
expectedly and two very naked forms
careered into the • hall. Margaret Rose
gazed, speechless in outraged modesty
at the shocking spectacle. Up and down
the hall pranced the two slim and comely
figures, chanting vigorously and rhythmi-
cally, “Who are these horsemen in un-
seen flight. Galloping, galloping, through
the night?”
“Oh, Dad, do come here and see these
awful boys!”
Mr. Grieve called out, “Simon!
Hector!” Just once like that, and the
precious pair sneaked into their bedrooms
for their pyjamas.
Peace and gloom settled down once
more.
“I was thinking,” said Mrs. Grieve.
“And my poor head is aching terribly—
but I was thinking you might have
registered Simon John somewhere else.”
“And where else would I?”
“I don’t know. But you didn’t at North
.Wrigley.”
“And,” said Mr. Grieve with seeming
irrelevance—“have you thought of the
taxation people?”
“The what?”
“I said taxation. They’ll be down on
us, too, for claiming a rebate on Simon
John.”
“Oh, dear!”
The next day Mrs. Grieve went to the
Registrar-General's, Here she was even-
tually passed on to an oldish gentleman
(“And such a nice man!” as she said
later). Officialdom had not swallowed up
his humanity.
<<- \/ES, indeed, Mrs. Grieve,” said the
I nice old man. “I have to tell you
the matter is serious. But it can be
rectified. So don’t be alarmed. There is
no record here of your son. Clearly
enough he has not been registered—and
there has been oversight. Your husband
forgot to do it.” He stroked his chin in
a kindly and fatherly way. “You say the
boy was bom at ‘The Elms,’ Seven Oaks.
It is just possible your husband went to
the registry office there. Not likely. I
think he has forgotten.” His grey clipped
moustache bristled out slightly in the
exercise of kindly thinking and good
advice—“ You had best see a solicitor
about it. He will tell you what to do.
Great care, you see, is needed. Whatever
you do you must keep the matter out of
the Supreme Court.”
It seemed that any court was bad
enough, but the Supreme Court had about
it all the spacious terrors and tortures of
an old-time Spanish Inquisition,
Somehow Mrs. Grieve was greatly
heartened. She saw Mr. Barkell, the
solicitor —Barkell, Barkell and Blunt,
The Barkells and Mrs, Grieve’s people
had been great friends in the old days.
“Dear old fellow, Mr. Barkell,” said Mrs.
Grieve, Breezy, bright and not a bit like
a lawyer at all. Mr. Barkell had a habit
of ticking off items on the pudgy fingers
of his left hand. He did so now. “One,
there is the parish register at your church.
Two, there’s the doctor. Three, there’s
the matron at the hospital. Four, your
own statement. And five, a statement
from your husbamd, admitting neglect,
with extenuating circumstances. That will
simplify the matter for court procedure.”
“Do you mean the Supreme Court?”
“Oh, no, no! We can prevent it get-
ting as’ far as that, I think.” Mr. Barkell
brought the pudgy fingers of his left hand
against the pudgy fingers of bis right.
That was just a hopeful gesture to show
that the Supreme Court could be avoided.
“No, no, my dear, we can settle this
matter before a mere magistrate. And,
yes, yes, to be sure, you could inquire at
the’ registry office at Seven Oaks. No
harm at all in doing so ... ”
“I’m sure,” complained Mrs. Grieve
that night, “that you might make some
of these inquiries yourself.”
“But how can I?” replied Mr. Grieve.
After Two Wars.
The false dawn promises the sun,
Men wake, and one by orie,
“He comes, day comes!” they cry
aloud.
Alas, within the hour,
A sinister, ungodly cloud
Begins to loher,
Em palls the hopeful East;
Night’s blind reign
Seems to begin again.
From nian, bird, beast.
Goes up the bitter cry:
“The day was promised, why
“Is it so soon withdrawn ?
“Before the true dawn,
“Before the sun, the evangelist,
has ascended,
"Our day is ended”
Could they but know it, poor
deluded wretches.
No such doom hangs o’er*them,
For the long dby stretches
All before them.
N.Z.
ARNOLD WALL.


“My office hours and all ln any
case, you are doing splendidly.”
THE registry office at Seven Oaks
turned out to be an antiquated little
stone building—convict-built, it was said.
Next door was a little old stone church—
also convict-built. Anyway, it was grey
with age, and it had a little square tower
ivy-clad, and four little turrets on top of
it. At a certain angle and distance the
tower and its turrets looked like the head
of a cat, dreaming and yet alert. An old-
world atmosphere was much heightened
by a churchyard full of nodding tomb-
stones and grassy graves,
Mrs. Grieve, after some search, came
to the little stone building. Three stone
steps, much worh and hollowed, led to a
faded green front door. On the ctoor, in
faded white letters, was the announcement
that this was the registry office, and other
connected details, with office hours
attached. There was an air about the
place, as there was about that quiet grave-
yard of secrets stored away for ever.
The door was closed, although the
notice guaranteed this an office time. This
was a world apart from the sleek effi-
ciency of that courthouse at North
Wrigley.
It seemed to Mrs. Grieve as profane
to knock at that door as to interfere with
the dead in the churchyard. But still the
hours were definitely stated. So, after a
long hesitation, she knocked. Nothing
happened. She knocked again. Move-
ment inside, and a patter of feet. The
thick green door opened. A little old
woman stood in the doorway. An excited,
enthusiastic, -withered-up little woman.
Her face was wondei'fully wrinkled and
yet marvellously fresh in color, and her
eyes, behind the steel-rimmed spectacles,
were very small and extraordinarily
bright. She was withal very greatly in
keeping with the little stone house and
the green door, and the little grey church,
and the drowsy, half-forgotten little
churchyard,
Mrs. Grieve said, “Oh, pardon, but
1—1”
i i O away! ” said the little old woman
''-I in a voice not at all unpleasant, and
only half her age.
“But —but —I thought, you see”
“Go away, my dear, and call back
later.”
“But the office hours —notice on the
door—l thought”
“Exactly!” said the little old woman.
“But I am very busy. You must come
back. Not long, my dear. Not long at
all.”
“I’ve come all the way from North
Wrigley.”
“Yes, yes, my dear. Must excuse me,
now, though.” Then in tones of import-
ance, confidence and pride—“At the
moment I am doing a marriage! Do
come back later.”
The green door closed, so Mrs. Grieve
had to wait. She went to the little
grey church, but it was closed. She
wandered round the little old church-
yard with its grass-grown graves and
tumbling, mouldering tombstones.
Some of the epitaphs were still clear
enough to read, and there was a melan-
choly pleasure in the reflection that
people were so much better long ago.
and were missed a lot more when they
died, and children loved their parents
more dearly, and parents cherished their
lost children more sincerely. The tale
of it was all there, writ in stone a
hundred years ago—some of it , . .
THERE was a step, light but firm and
purposeful on the path of worn-out
gravel. It was the little old woman.
“I’m ready now, my dear. And I see
you like our little burying-ground. I love
it myself. They are all there, you know.”
And she waved her hand towards one
corner. There was a deal of ink on two
fingers. “All theire—mother, father, my
oldest sister, and the brother who was
drowned. My mother’s mother and
father. And my great-grandfather. They
are all there!” There was a mournful
pride in having so many forebears
gathered in such a small and everlasting
place. “Come along, my dear, and I’ll
show you.”
They were better-kept, these graves, than
most. And the lettering had been
freshened and blacked against time and
change. “I do it myself in my spare-time
—the decent thing to do. One’s own
flesh and blood, you know.”
Mrs. Grieve agreed.
“That Mathew Tremaine, you see, was
my great-grandfather.”
Mathew apparently did not consider
himself dead at all, for he commenced
his own epitaph in the first person, an-
nouncing, “I’m not dead, but sleeping
here”
“Henry Maingay —next there but one —
my grandfather, you know. Indeed yes.
I remember him well; and that bit at the
end was true enough.”
[The bit at the end was a couplet giving
frank summary of the late Henry’s virtues
and defects;
A loving husband and a father kind
Till wretched drink destroyed his mind
—and so on with the “partings below
and meetings above” and the waitings for
“blessed .reunions” and the little “rose-
buds in heaven.”
THE sun slanted through the irregular
boughs of a book-pine, bending ever
so slightly in the breeze, and made thin
ghosts on the rich brown kangaroo-grass
—the very ghosts maybe of laughters long
ago, of dreams that never came true, of
grievances that ranked till they blended
with the clay, of loves not realised, of
aspirings and longings that dwindled into
the years
At least, it may have been something
of this, for the little old woman said
“Lovely! And don’t you think it robs
death of its sting?”
Again Mrs. Grieve agreed.
They went back to the little stone
house. There was a tiny hall, and off it,
on one side, a tiny room. “My office,”
said the little old woman, getting behind
a narrow table that served as desk or
counter. There were some chairs, and. in
the corner a small table with three large
books upon it —their backs bound in
brown leather. On the walls were notices
and instructions—at least they looked like
that—and all the spaces between were
filled by calendars, some of them very
old,
< i A ND now, my dear, do kit down and
** tell me all about it. But that was
a couple I was marrying when you called.
A very nice couple. But he was twice as
old, I should say. I don’t get so many
marryings to do. But they come along
occasionally. Funny, don’t you think—
me marrying people? Important, too.
Did you, by any chance, see the couple
as they went out?”
Mrs. Grieve regretted she had not.
The worry over Simon John had made
her remiss and had outdone her curiosity.
When told of Simon John, the little old
woman wrinkled her face still more, and
said “Um!” Then, “He can’t be entered
here or they would know down below.”
“Down below” was evidently the
Registrar-General’s. “But we’ll soon see,”
She became as chirpy as a businesslike
sparrow. “It’s all here.” She brought
over one of the big books, “Births!” She
said, “All here! Now give me year,
month and day, my dear.”
Mrs. Grieve supplied these. The little
old woman licked an inky forefinger and
stroked the leaves back. But there was
no Simon John at or near the date
specified. Then the little old woman went
back a whole year and forward five years
“just to make sure and certain,” but
“Grieve, Simon John” was nowhere to
be found.
She raised her small bright eyes —very
brown eyes they were—“So you see, he
isn’t. And if he was they’d have it all
down below.” Mrs. Grieve nodded in
disappointment.
“Some men,” said the little old woman,
“are very fortgetful. My father was, I
know. ‘The Elms,’ you say? Perhaps,
perhaps —but forgetful, you know.”
“It was just on the bare chance,” said
Mrs. Grieve, “I’m awfully bothered
really. I thought my husband might
have...”
The little old woman gave her shoulders
a comical shrug. “It’s funny, my dear,
but men do forget. My own father
now ...”
Mrs. Grieve rose. “I must be going.
Thank you so much —you’ve been so
good.” .
“Not at all. Not at all. And I do wish
you could have seen that couple. Do sit
down'a minute. And fancy a woman per-
forming the ceremony! Civil marriage,
you know . . . North Wrigley, yoU said?
What a long way for nothing! ” She put
down the big book tenderly. “Look, my
dear, you must have a cup of tea before
you go.” Mrs. Grieve felt compelled to
stay,
“Tilly! Tilly! Tea! Tilly!” the
little old woman. “Tilly is my niece,”
she explained. “Nice girl, Tilly. Brother
Herbert’s daughter.”
TILLY brought in a tray—teapot under
a yellow cosy, little blue jug with no
handle, cups, a plate of little arid scones
and another of little gritty cakes. Tilly
was anything but a girl—older-looking
really than the little old woman. She
passed the tray and retired without a
word.
“You see life in a queer way at times,”
said the little old woman, evidently think-
ing of the couple just now. She laughed,
and all the wrinkles multiplied and rippled
to it. “Once, I remember —you won’t
mind, will you?—but once a couple came
along at eight o’clock —from the country
they were. I said, ‘You can’t —not today.
After office hours, you know. I daren’t.
Not legal. Must come tomorrow.’ ” She
pecked at a currant in a gritty cake.
“They looked at each other —then at me —
very disappointed—then at each other
again, ‘Can’t you do it?’ says he. ‘And
that I can’t,’ says I. ‘Well, if you can't,’
says he, ‘couldn’t you give us a permit
for tonight?’ ”
Sho laughed her trilling laugh at this —
the height or depth of delicious wicked-
ness.
Mrs. Grieve laughed too, not so much
at the story as at the little old woman s
delight in it.
<<AMN it and blast it!” said Mr.
Grieve that evening when his wife,
still under the spell of the little old
woman, told him all this. “And where
does all this get us to?”
“Well, only this—you certainly did ndt
register Simon John.”
“Ah, well, maybe I did forget. But it
was a trying time just then. Margaret
and the boys with whooping-cough, and
me with hay-fever, and no help to be got
anywhere.” Mr. Grieve enjoyed the
luxury of self-pity sometimes.
But his wife was less prickly and spiky
than she might have been. “Don’t let us
worry too much. And you can see Dr.
Megson and the Rev. Tottenham-Smiles.
And get the necessary statements from
them.”
“Urn!” said Mr. Grieve, not liking this
overmuch, especially the seeing of the
Rev. Tottenham-Smiles. “And there is
the nurse at ‘The Elms’.”
“I’ll slip down and see her. I did
promise to look in again on that little
lady at the Seven Oaks Registry.”
So things were not too bad, and the
house was comparatively quiet. Margaret
Rose was doing her homework, and
only snarling at irregular intervals;
William and Alexander, with door closed
and radio turned low, were listening to
their infernal serial; Simon John and
Hector Robert were so unusually quiet
that they must be asleep—or up to some
high-grade form of mischief. Unfor-
tunately it was the latter —they had boned
Margaret Rose’s box of birthday choco-
lates and were giving themselves up to
entire enjoyment. Bedlam broke forth
at the discovery.
MR. GRIEVE went round to see the
Rev. Tottenham-Smiles. A fine big
man he was, and not altogether unaware
of it. But he didn’t hold himself entirely
to blame that he was such a fine man.
He was proud, too, of his goodness. But
then he was very good, and so much
better than anyone else.
He ushered in Mr. Grieve. “Well,
Mr. Grieve, what can Ido for you? ” He
daintily flicked a minute speck from his
sleeve. Very black material and very
expensive, and very well made.
Having put Mr. Grieve in the wrong
from the very start —the flicking off the
speck of dust did that as much as any-
thing else —and making him perfectly
ill at ease Mr. Grieve was at a loss how
to begin.
“It’s Simon John—you know, Simon
John? Our second youngest. I wanted
particularly to see you about him.”
“Ah, Simon John!” The Rev. Totten-
ham-Smiles said it as if he had long
been expecting something to go wrong
with the Grieve children. “And what has
Simon John been doing—now?”
“I only wanted to borrow the Parish
Register—you see, you know ...”
The Rev. Tottenham-Smiles raised his
symmetrical eyebrows, put his head
slightly back, stared along his straight
nose at some imaginary point about three
inches above Mr. Grieve’s head. At least
Mr. Grieve may have shrtink that much
to accommodate the stare.
“The Parish Register, Mr. Grieve! Mr.
Grieve! ”
“Well, no, not exactly, Mr. Totting-
ham-Smiles.” Mr. Grieve’s tongue, in
his confusion, didn’t get round the “Tot-
tenham” part of the hyphenation too well,
“I don’t really want to borrow it at all.
But we must have something to take into
court.”
“Court! Did you say court, Mr.
Grieve?”
As best he could, Mr. Grieve explained
about Simon John. The Rev. Tottenham-
Smiles expanded visibly, leaned back,
fitted open hands together across his
ample girth, and preached a sermon both
to and at Mr. Grieve. The text of his
sermon, as far as Mr. Grieve was capable
of remembering, was the complete com-
patibility of spiritual duties and the
observance of temporal laws, “Ignor-
ance,” declared the reverend gentleman —
“ignorance, I say, cannot be advanced
as an excuse. , Never.”
Then he reverted, with Mr. Grieve
properly cast down, to Simon John. “I
shall, Mr. Grieve, prepare a statement for
you, and embody in it all the pertinent
details from the Parish Register. Let us
hope it may remove from you the stigma
and the suspicion of a conscious wish to
conceal a birth.”
As a kindly afterthought he outlined
the fine one was liable to, and the period
of jail one might attain to if the authori-
ties were not satisfied. He prayed that
Mr. Grieve, however, might escape the
worst consequences of his folly. Then
he shook hands—in a soft, spiritual clasp.
And hoped that Mr, Grieve might occa-
sionally attend church services.
Dr. megson was quite different.
There was a bluff, hearty way of the
world about him, and a confidence and
friendliness of the come-along-and-buck-
up sort that had long since doubled his
income.
“Ha, ha!” said he. “Forgot, did you,
hey! You are a damn’ fool. Grieve!
Just a damn’ fool! Ha, ha! But we are
all damn’ fools, sometimes, aren’t we,
Grieve?”
He “Ha! ha-ed!” a lot more, till Mr.
Grieve hoped that “Ha, ha!” did not get
into his statement. But the humor of the
situation as Dr. Megson saw it did buck
up Mr. Grieve very considerably.
And then, the very next a
snorty letter from the taxation ‘ people.
Letters from the taxation people are
mostly snorty—it encourages people to
pay promptly. Any polite dealing and
gentle handling would mean that no one
would pay tax at all. So one is never
requested to pay or asked to pay the
gasping extortion; but is just told that
he may pay the swinging amount, without
fine, before a certain date, in a ridiculously
brief future. And in filling in the beauti-
fully clear form or. return one is branded
a potential crook and liar in advance, and
only to be discouraged from following
his natural instincts by the grim threat
of a thumping fine. And by the dread
certainty that he’ll be found out, any-
how. In consequence, such people as
have any conscience left in these matters
go about for ever with a deep sense of
guilt. And so, in this simple and direct
way, a fine feeling of confidence, affection
almost, is established between the tax-
gatherer and the taxpayer.
Well, this letter was more than usually
snorty. About Simon John, of course,
and Mr. Grieve’s perfidy in claiming
rebate for him when he didn’t exist.
Shocking penalties were more than sug-
gested. Mr. Grieve fumed in the true
style of taxation grievance' Mrs. Grieve,
who had just been bathing Simon Johns
black eye—there had been a fight at
school —was far more philosophical.
“Well,” said she. “I will say this for
the investigators at taxation, they are
efficient. Fancy lighting on Simon John
like that! It just goes to show.”
But Mr, Grieve took no comfort.
THE two nurses at “The Elms” were
not to be found. They had sold out
years before, and they had just vanished.
But Mr. Barkell, the solicitor, pudgily
handled the statements from doctor and
clergyman and said everything was in
order. Nothing to fear really. The birth
and existence of Simon John had been
now established. There was only remain-
ing the formality of appearance in court
to explain neglect. Yes, he’d be in court
himself. No, no, not the Supreme Court
at all. Everything would be quite all
right—Simon John would at last be
registered. There would be a fine, of
course. Not such a big one. And all
would be made right with the endowment
people; and the taxation people, in spite
of some little muttering, would be satis-
fied. But everything would be quite all
right. , . „ ~ ~
“Everything in the garden, said Mr.
Barkell, “will be lovely.” This fine meta-
phor had nothing of legal flavor to it,
but it was soothing in the circumstances.
Mr. Barkell was like that.
WITH everything fixed at last, and
Simon John established in his right-
ful place in the community, that young
irresponsible—who had cared nothing
about all the worry he caused —and
Hector Robert pranced along the hall
“Galloping, galloping, hark, oh hark. Who
is it galloping through the dark?”
In sheer relief Mr. Grieve caught the
pair of them a hard, friendly slap over
their bare sterns. And- Margaret Ro*e
gazed in a very ecstasy of horror and
outraged modesty at the passing show.


WOLFE’S
c mtmibc
SCHNAPPS
Put the spring back into
your step with an occa-
sional Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Served with iced water,
soda or other cordial, it
is a most healthful and
refreshing summer
drink. -
WOLFES
AROMATIC
mm
pars
SSa2ESs3
w
LONDON and
BIRMINGHAM
BRITISH INDUSTRIES FAIR
ŵ
Every year, from over 100 countries, trade
buyers gather at the British Industries Fair.
The Chamber of Commerce in Birmingham,
and manufacturers from every part of Britain, join with
the Government of the United Kingdom to welcome them.
At BI F 1949, from 2-13 May, 3000 exhibitors will display
the latest developments in thirty groups of allied trades.
The leading men of international commerce are invited to
attend the world’s greatest assembly of national products.
2-13 MAY 1949
TRADE BUYERS PLAN YOUR VISIT NOW
Information about exhibitors, special displays T* a de
the Fair can be obtained from the United Kingdom Iran
CommUsioner at Canberra. Sydney. Melbourne or Brubane;
or the Imperial Trade Correspondent at Adelaide
SUNDRY SHOWS
DOBELL'S DOUBLE.
Williarti Dobell carried off the
artistic double for 1948 by win-
ning both the Archibald Prize
with a portrait of Margaret
Olley and the Wynne Prize for
landscape painting with his
“Storm Approaching, Wangi” ;
thereby making history in the
competitions and arousing a
fine storm of praise and con-
troversy in Sydney newspapers,
daily and Sunday.
“Storm Approaching, Wangi,”
is a skilful and dramatic little
painting powerful* though
small, and with a striking con-
trast of stormy green and foam-
ing white. It has a quality rare
in Australian landscape-painting
—drama —in sea and sky and,
again, a kind of dramatic
rhythm in the curved naked
backs of the men hauling a white
and symmetrical boat out of a
surge of white water. Viewed at
a suitable distance, a hill in the
background glows with orange
and green, and another boat —a
mere speck of white—rides on
the green water.
But the - picture, like other
Dobell landscapes, is curiously
reminiscent of the work of
Conrad Martens, and this, most
likely, is simply due to the
artist’s inability to paint Aus-
tralian light. It has force ; but
at the same time the artist has
relied a good deal on the charm
of white paint. The nearer boat
is effective —like a white and
symmetrical swan —but there
are greasy-looking specks and
patches of white to the Tight of
it. The foreground of the pic-
ture boils like white surf; but
the sky is like white lace, or the
white of Margaret Olley’s dress ;
or like thick white paint.
“Storm Approaching,” good
as it is, and praiseworthy as any
attempt to infuse drama into
landscape-painting must always
be, was lucky to win the Wynne
Prize; lucky to beat Lance
Solomon’s “Smoke Haze” —a
painting which, although it is to
some extent repetitive of a
familiar Solomon theme and
although it is not equal to his
best, work, has poetic quality,
perfect balance, observation and
depth—and doubly lucky that
the fine Solomon sea-piece ex-
hibited at the last Royal Art
Society show was not entered in
the competition.
But about the merit of
Dobell’s Archibald Prize-
winner there is no possible
doubt. It is a fine painting,
equal to Dobell’s best, rich and
colorful and opulent. Photo-
graphs of the picture, printed in
most Sydney papers, catch some-
thing of the character of the
painting—the flowing draperies,
fruit, floral hat, and the firmly-
delineated face of the sitter, with
full cheeks and mouth pursed
into a shadowy smile —but a re-
production, however good, can
give no adequate idea of the
original. Especially in black and
white, the glow of color —yel-
low, greens and shimmering
white —is lost, and these go a
long way to make the force and
unity of the picture. It is a pic-
ture which the trustees of the
Gallery should certainly buy;
fit, in its different class, to hang
beside the Lamberts and Long-
staffs in the Gallery’s posses-
sion, and wonderfully superior
to the bulk of the assortment
that hangs in the Gallery’s “Re-
cent Purchases” Chamber of
Horrors.
But this is not to say that
Dobell, as a portrait-painter; is
the equal of Lambert. Dobell
has, perhaps unfortunately for
himself, become something of a
figure of controversy; follow-
ing the publicity of his Joshua
Smith portrait his work has
been rigorously criticised and,
more unfortunately, overpraised.
The “S.M. Herald” critic went
fantastically too far when he
wrote (January 22) that Dobell
is “the only portrait-painter we
have ever had”...
The only portrait-painter? In
the Sydney Gallery there are, for
instance, Lambert’s “Girl in a
Red Shawl,” a superb portrait
of feminine character, with the
red splash of shawl giving color
and drama to the sitter’s dark
and aristocratic grace. And
there is a marvellous full-length
portrait of a ballet-dancer, an
almost incredible combination
of stillness and vitality, with the
sitting figure ready to come out
of the frame and dance.
There is clear evidence of
Dobell’s debt to Lambert in the
achievement of character and
drama in the pose and the em-
phasis on the skilful painting of
the hands. For Dobell, after
all, did not spring into artistic
life after a summer shower of
daily-newspaper approval. He
attended the Julian Ashton Art
School; and his work shows it.
Over and above the smoke of
controversy, the portrait of
Margaret Olley remains a fine
painting. The rich massing of
detail is subordinated to the
main design—the pose and the
character. In classic
formula Dobell has “seen clearly
and delineated firmly.” But not
yet so firmly as Lambert, whose
“Red Shawl” has a kind of
classic grace, which makes the
possibility of any detail of the
oval, rather long-necked face
against its dark background, or
of the vivid shawl itself, being
altered inconceivable.
This is not the case with the
Dobell portrait. Details could
be amended —for instance, the
reflection of the hat in the
mirror which, though striking,
is patchy. And if a comparison
of Lambert and Dobell is really
necessary it should be remem-
bered that although Dobell can
paint vigorous and lusty life, he
has never painted the aristo-
cratic charm of women. And
he is not nearly so prolific a
painter as Lambert.
But the painting can rest
securely on its own merits. It
has charm and vitality, and the
glow of its orange and green
and the shimmer of white draws
the eye inevitably to its place at
the end of the exhibition bay. A
glow picked up most effectively
in the orange of the fruit be-
side the sitter’s shoulder, in the
wide-brimmed hat and in the
mirror. The shimmer of white
on the forearm and the poised
bare hand against the white of
the dress is a piece of sheer
virtuosity and balances the
appeal of the figure and the
warm-toned, rather heavy and
dominating face.
A “Self-Portrait” by Mary
Edwards was the picture next to
Dobell’s in quality—surpassing
the other entries by the same
qualities of imagination. It is a
rich and rather lovely piece of
painting the seated figure
shown against a gently-touched
green Javanese landscape—and,
like Dobell, Mary Edwards has
exploited the dramatic possibili-
ties of pose. Other portraits
which commanded attention
were Dargie’s of Sir Samuel
Hordern, a Joshua Smith por-
trait, a Roland Strasser portrait
in which the feminine subject has
charm and grace rather mistily
perceived, a Buckmaster portrait
of aboriginal singer Harold
Blair, Harley Griffiths’s “Portrait
of My Father,” “Miss Bessie J.
Mitchell” by Clive Guthrie and
a lively sketch of a child by T.
Vigano.
Sali Herman’s “The Drovers,”
which won the Sulman Prize, is
very far below the standard of
the best entries in the Wynne
and Archibald sections. It is a
study, primarily, of one of those
old stone or pise walls, adorned
with a wrought-iron balcony,
which Mr. Herman always
paints competently and with a
painstaking—indeed, painful—
sincerity. Mr. Herman is ob-
viously in earnest about these
walls; and however sympatheti-
cally one may endeavor to see
his point of view, earnestness is
the chief impression he makes;
something dolorous, plodding
and indomitable.
Attached to the wall in this
instance is the bar-room of a
country pub on the window of
which, presumably by some in-
nocent error, is printed in large
letters the beautiful word beer.
Had the legend read no beer it
might have given an amusing
touch of topicality; but even
with this addition it is usual to
find on bar windows the word
BAR.
Inside the beer (or bar) are a
number of drinkers, and lurk-
ing in the doorway is a hillbilly
seven feet high who has doubt-
less been left behind by Russell
Drysdale’s Wild West Circus.
Outside the door stands a coach.
Near the vehicle are two foals
which look like rocking-horses,
and savagely baying at the entire
composition is a small woolly
dog. Mr. Herman has obviously
made a praiseworthy effort to
animate his dreary realism, but
the addition of this sort of de-
liberately childish artlessness
makes a very indigestible mix-
ture.
No other picture in this sec-
tion, except a second Herman
entry of unadorned slums, has
serious claims to consideration.
In the circumstances it would
have been better not to have
awarded the prize. The Sulman
competition has been more or
less a joke for years, and—pos-
sibly by propaganda from the
Director of the Gallery—some-
thing should be done to restore
its prestige.
"II Trovator."
On a day 96 years ago last
week the river Tiber burst its
banks and Roman opera-goers
had to wade through mud to
get to the Teatro Apollo to hear
a new yerdi opera. They con-
sidered this a small sacrifice to
be at the premiere of a work
they at once acclaimed as a
masterpiece, though the critics
slammed it for its lack of
lyricism. The public was right,
and this most lyrical of all
Verdi operas has remained a
firm favorite, despite the rather
obfuscated libretto by Cam-
manaro based on a 15th-cen-
tury Spanish drama.
This same obfuscation of plot
is deepened by the general tend-
ency to regard Manrico and
Leonora as the central figures.
Actually, the gypsy Azucena is
the pivotal character in this
orgy of hatred by inheritance,
with jealousy as a by-blow.
The presentation at Sydney
Tivoli under the baton of
Manno Wolff-Ferrari laid par-
ticular stress on the dramatic,
or melodramatic, values, which
are considerable. The cornu-
copia of airs for principals and
chorus which Verdi’s genius for
melody supplied was availed of
in some cases with great gusto,
in others with something less
than real enthusiasm.
The most famous piece in the
opera is the “Miserere,” and this
was sung capably but with no
great distinction by Raffael
Lagares as Manrico and Ger-
mana Di Giulia as Leonora,
who elsewhere encountered diffi-
culty in hitting tonal dead-centre.
But a better duet than the
“Miserere” is the “Ai Nostri
Monte,” and to this Lagares and
Dora Minarchi, the Azucena of
the night, did no less than jus-
tice. No small portion of the
night’s success was due to the
work of Signorina Minarchi,
whose mezzo-soprano stretched
both ways under admirable con-
trol, and whose “Stride la
Vampa” was a well-sustained
exposition of dramatic declara-
tion, Ferdinando Li Donni’s
Count di Luna carried plenty of
conviction, and his baritone a
resiliency and artistry which
made of “II Balen” a joy to the
ear.
A precision and invigoration
mgxK the singing of the “Anvil
Chorus,” and it says much for
the carrying quality of the voices
that they were able to be heard
above the orchestra, which
generally was throttled back
sufficiently in most of the solos
to allow the principals to feel
that they didn’t have to compete
with the crowded well beneath
them.
Musical Fantasy.
Doris Fitton’s Independent
Theatre are making a good job
of “The Melody that Got Lost,”
a fantasy by Danish playwright
Kjeld Abell, which depends a
good deal on spectacular stage
effects and on the juxtaposition
of music with action in the
search of Johnson, a sort of de-
pressed and successful Babbitt,
for the elusive Melody; which,
of course, is the secret of hap-
piness, which the unfortunate
Johnson has bartered for a
steady job and a nice little flat
and 15s. a week financial help
from his wife’s parents.
Without a certain sparkling
humor and the devices of cup-
boards which fly open to reveal
a heavy Boss who chants
“Yours faithfully” before the
doors bang shut again, and a
very effective streamlining of de-
tails —an entire Working day,
for instance, is performed in
dumb show; and a wedding is
performed very effectively by a
wedding-gown and a top-hat
being drawn across the stage on
wires—there is very little in
“The Melody that Got Lost.”
But a charming humor sustains
it, and technical contrivances
and players give it their best.
And the streamlining, excellently
arranged, is an advantage, for
the play is a study of futility
with a happy ending.
Abbreviation makes the
futility comic instead of tedi-
ous ; dances, fairies, etc., are
decorative and charming, and
the happy ending, being per-
fectly obvious, is unimportant.
John Craig and June Brooks
are excellent as the Johnsons,
Shirley Falconet makes an
attractive Elf, Diana Davidson,
Joanne Thomas and Florence
Duggan contribute effectively
to the beauty of the production
as Melody Maidens, and Frank
O’Donnell makes a marvellous
choleric Policeman, doubling to
make an equally choleric Boss.


ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
SHREW SHAVERS ,
<UAVE (i
m
Put a stop to whisker inflation. Use
just a spot of Ingram's cool shaving
cream, and your shaving troubles dis-
appear in the soothing froth and
bubble. Be shaving security conscious
and shave for the security of your only
face, with Ingram's. Ingram’s soothes
as it smooths as it softens, and makes
shaving a carefree few moments. Send
the coupon below for 7 FREE shaves
on Ingram’s. Don't delay, send today.
tor *
security/
S*AV6 V
i jt
f
•s
SWAVIN6 Cfc£AM
ySWVES fJ?££
Bristol Myers Co. Pty. Ltd.,
223 Pacific Highway, North Sydney, N.S.W.
NAME
ADDRESS..
1181
mm
FROM
CHEMISTS
EVERYWHERE
rv
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
For some weeks now, until the ses-
sion culminates with the running ot
the Oakleigh, Newmarket and
Futurity, the sprinters hold the stage
in Melbourne. Saturday’s William
Reid Stakes at Moonee Valley at-
tracted a tip-top field and produced a
fine race, though the result was prob-
ably unpalatable to the majority of
punters.
Denhoti headed the weights and
was well fancied at 9 to 2. There
was also, on the strength of some ex-
cellent track work during the week,
strong support for the three-year-old
Heliofly (9 to 2), who earlier raced
in Sydney. Favorite for the Reid
Stakes, however, was Ungar, with
Breasley up.
The starter got the field of nine
away well, and the lightly-weighted
Our Title went to the front to make
the pace a cracker; from the start
to the turn, where Our Title held a
clear lead, the South Australian horse
Comedy Prince led the remainder.
In the straight Comedy Prince set to
work, had little trouble in overhaul-
ing the bolter, and went on to win
well. Ungar, finishing strongly but
too late, was beaten three-parts of a
length, and Our Title, after doing
all the bullocking, hung on surpris-
ingly well for third money.
To describe Comedy Prince as a
South Australian is rather a misnomer
He’s actually a real cosmopolitan of
the turf, with the rare record of
having won races during the past 12
months in Brisbane, Sydney, Mel-
bourne and Adelaide. In winning the
Reid Stakes Comedy Prince clocked
1.11, bettering by half a second the
previous record for Moonee Valley s
odd distance of six furlongs less 20
yards.
The 13-furlongs Cranmallan Handi-
cap presented the extremely rare spec-
tacle of six horses sharing favorit-
ism ; Royal Pageant, Our Land,
Golden Gem, Braganza, Sir Actor and
Real Guy were each at 7to 1. It
was a comment possibly not so much
on the openness of the race as on the
caution with which punters are now
approaching these distance handicaps
after the incredible string of upsets
such have produced. On this occa-
sion they did manage to pick it in
six, but only just; Royal Pageant (N.
Powell) won by a short half-head
from Dashing Beau and Dhutia.
The grey Nizami filly Novam was
the popular pick in the mile Tweed-
side Handicap for three-year-old
fillies, and, good ’un that she is,
made an admirable attempt to over-
come the disadvantages of being
drawn on the extreme outside of the
16 runners at the start and lumping
a solid topweight of 9st.; the com-
bination just beat her. Racing right
round the field Novam quickly set
up a good lead but was pegged back
in the straight by the Solar Bear
filly Atomic Lass, in receipt pf halt
a stone weight from the favorite and
winning by half a neck.
As so frequently happens the two-
year-olds gave punters their best re-
cults of the day, favorites winning
both divisions of the Niddrie Handi-
cap. Ridden by Ken Smith, Happy
Medium won thei first division, and
the Dhoti colt Napier (J. rurteiu
started at odds-on for his brilliant win
in the second.
Happy Medium is a daughter of the
imported stallion Ruthless, at stud in
New Zealand. A number of this sire s
first crop have been seen in action
here this season, and more, of his
second lot, have been purchased by
Australian buyers at the current New
Zealand yearling sales, so a word or
two on him may be timely.
Ruthless is a comparatively young
sire, being of the same year as Ocean
Swell, whom present writer saw win
the English Derby m 1944. He is a
son of Hyperion (by Gainsborough)
and the Coronach mare Correa, so
that his three nearest sires were
winners of the Derby and the St.
Leger. His dam, Correa, was a
winner in England at distances up to
two miles.
Ruthless had only one start as a
two-year-old, when he ran third in
tSe Great Bradley Stakes at New-
market, yet he made such an impres-
sion at that one appearance that he
was rated at 8.10 in the Free Handi-
cap—lolb. above Ocean Swell and
21b. above Picture Play, who won the
One Thousand Guineas. As a three-
year-old Ruthless started twice, on
each occasion injuring himself m
running, after which it was decided
to retire him to stud (which, mci-
dentally, would never'be done here
with such a promising youngster).
Ruthless was then acquired for J. A.
Mitchell’s Santa Rosa Stud CN-Z.).
* * * *
In the space of a week Sydney
jockey J. Thompson has experienced a
full cycle of the ups and downs ot
racing luck. At Raqdwick, with the
luck his way, Thompson landed four-
winners ; he might well have, equalled
or bettered that effort at Rosehill on
Saturday but the luck was against
him and he recorded instead four
seconds. Another of his mounts ran
third.
Main event at Rosehill, the annual
Lord Mayor’s Cup of £l5OO ’and
trophy, went to the favorite Trans-
action, a recent graduate from re-
stricted company; his last previous
win was in a Trial Stakes at Rand-
wick over the same distance as the
Cup—lo furlongs. He has been tried
at longer trips, but gives the im-
pression that, like his sire Golden
Sovereign and most of his get, 10
furlongs may be about his limit.
Transaction was well handled by N.
Sellwood. While Conductor, and
the Queensland horse Forge, disputed
the lead all the way to the home turn,
the winner was given plenty of time
to settle down, running along com-
fortably in midfield. Taken to the
outside in the straight he unwound a
very fast finish, hit the front with
half a furlong to go and went on to
score by three lengths from Crusader
and Royal Lad. Royal Lad ran a
good, honest race, and Barnsley, find-
ing the trip a trifle short after his
recent good efforts at 12 furlongs,
came home solidly into fourth place.
At his previous start, at Moore-
field recently, the five-year-old Bull-
head gelding Clipper started at 20 to
1 and finished well back in a field of
19. For Saturday’s Flying Handicap
he was backed in from twelves to
6 to 1, suggesting that some improve-
ment was anticipated. Thus it was.
Ridden in the Flying by apprentice A.
Hazelton, claiming a 51b. allowance
which reduced his burden to J. 3,
Clipper was always in the firing-line,
was in front at the distance and hung
on well to beat the fast-finishing
Romany King by three-parts of a
length. Not much further back the
grey Davalomarne, Thompson’s choice
for the race, was a moderate third.
As runners in the Flying returned
to scale there burst forth an up-
roarious demonstration against
Romany King and his rider, A. Pod-
more. The hullabaloo was quite un-
warranted, but Romany King had
started favorite, which may have
accounted for it; the pocket is the
Achilles heel of most punters.
Romany King was competently
handled by Podmore; the horse is a
notedly tardy beginner, and with that
type, particularly in sprint races, it
is always a gamble whether they will
get up in time or not.
Interesting races,’ though of the type
usually best left alone by punters,
were a brace of Maiden two-year-old
events, contested in all by some 45
youngsters, 23 of them making their
first appearance. In the outcome,
however, experience told, only one of
those making its debut managing to
fill a place; that was Silver Bream
(Ajax-Trevally) finishing third behind
Dowager (N. Sellwood) and Primrose
in the Maiden for fillies.
Aptly- and well-named, being by
Golden Sovereign-Lady Tarwyn,
Dowager is a thoroughly businesslike-
looking bay filly. Despite her prom-
ising effort at Randwick the previous
week, and the unintentional tip given
for her in the racebook which de-
scribed her as a colt, she was allowed
to start at 12 to I—largely, no doubt,
because of her bad barrier position
(No. 23). However, she began too
smartly for those drawn nearer the
rails and led all the way. Among the
also-rans Bye and Bye might prove
aptly named, and Flash Back, a
daughter of Ajax and Bren (dam of
Silver Link), ran a nice sort of race.
The Maiden for colts and geldings
was won very smartly by Zetland (T.
Clarke), beating Star of the South
and Trader. All three had shown
pace at previous appearances, and
generally speaking it is unwise to con-
sider anything but fast beginners in
these 4i-furlong scrambles.
For the remainder,' the card at
Rosehill comprised a trio of Mixed
Stakes and a nine-furlongs Welter.
Punters displayed weird logic in their
approach to the Welter. The four-
year-old J. R. Smith gelding Carib-
bean, a good winner at his previous
start, was allowed to go out at 8 to
1; backed to beat him were Torment
(2 to 1), Drummer Boy (9 to 2) and
High Order (6 to 1), none of whom
had won in half-a-dozen starts. With
J. Lordan aboard, Caribbean won
“Ar, just flashness —tryin out his new roller-skates.”
from Torment, with Chaste third.
Mixed Stakes winners were Duke of
Syke (G. Moore) and Spanish Duke
(W. Briscoe) at six furlongs, and
Grecian (R. Morris) very easily at 10
furlongs.
* * * *
For Randwick (before accept-
ances);^ —
Sledmere Handicap: Joycourt, 1;
Ambitious, 2; Dowager, 3. Valicare
Handicap: Wattle, 1; Sheba, 2;
Revenir, 3. Sunnyside Handicap:
Humming Top, 1; Corosan, 2; Field
Boy, 3. Encourage: Loyal, 1; Silver
Buzz, 2; Colorful, 3. Challenge
Stakes: Skip Court, 1; Heroic Sove-
reign, 2; San Domenico, 3. January
Handicap: Menelik, 1; Parramatoo,
2; Conductor, 3. Paddington Handi-
cap: Davalomarne, 1; Souvenir, 2;
Sea Serpent, 3.
Anniversary Handicap (Monday).
High Ideals, 1; Silver Link, 2; Barns-
ley, 3.
* * * *
Countless racegoers, after harboring
the notion that some betting system
offered the easy road to riches, have
been left lamenting the fallibility or
the averages. Add to the ranks ,of
the disillusioned, though for another
reason, one Harry Bitman of Denver,
U.S.A. ....
As reported in an American paper,
Mr. Bitman has—or possibly had—
a small tailoring business in Denver.
By way of advertising he sponsored
a sporting session on the local radio,
and therein ran a weekly competition
offering a free suit to every listener
who sent in a correct forecast of the
results of 10 given, football ma } c “ es u
the week-end; the rules provided that
every person naming all 10 winners
landed a suit.
, For several weeks everything went
along beautifully, with not a soul
striking a correct result; Mr. Bitman
gaily and willingly presented a suit to
the person going closest each week.
Then one week he was hit with nine
correct .results. Somewhat perturbed,
Bitman consulted the sports editor ot
the local papef, who was also the
commentator of the
“Aw, go ahead and give all nine guys
their suits. A thing like that couldn t
happen again in a lifetime” was the
sage’s advice. Two weeks later the
axe fell —4l2 correct entries. Being a
man of his word, Bitman is paying
up. He estimates that it will cost
him more than 22,000 dollars. It
would not surprise to learn that the
radio-session is looking for a new
sponsor.
* ♦ * *
While S’Donald Bradman’s record
for the 22yds. dash at the Sydney
Cricket Ground was not challenged,
some other records went west at
that arena on Saturday, the final day
of the Australian Athletic Champion-
ships, Main attraction was the 220yds.,
with overseas visitors Herb 1 McKenley
and Lloyd La Beach opposed by most
of the best of local talent.
The visitors had the best of the
draw, landing the inside running-lanes,
which gave them a view of their
opponents; Bartram (Vic.) was in the
centre and Carr (N.S.W.) on the out-
side. Except that La Beach stumbled
after leaving the blocks and lost a
couple of yards, it was an excellent
start. Setting a red-hot pace, young
Carr streaked away from them early;
50 yards from the tape, however, the
long-striding McKenley had the field
covered and romped home with a
couple of yards to spare. Bartram
finished brilliantly into second place,
and La Beach was third, followed by
J. Wood of Westralia; Bartram, of
course, lands the title, visitors being
ineligible. Time for the furlong was
21 sec.—an Australian record, and re-
markable time on a circular grass
track.
Sprint-races are usually the most
popular of athletic events, but many,
including this onlooker, prefer watch-
ing a good solid 880yds. Saturday s
880 was a thriller, with White of
W.A. staging a grand fighting finish
to just draw level with Bailey or
N S W., who had held a commanding
lead with half a lap to gp. Bailey
collapsed as he crossed the line and
the judges declared a dead-heat, call
ing for a run-off. On medical advice
Bailey called it enough, leaving the
title to White.
Holder of the three-miles cham-
pionship, M. McDonald (N.S.W.), did
not qualify for inclusion in the
official N.S.W. team, but exercised his
right to start as an individual. Run-
ning with ease and fine judgment, he
led for three laps, dropped back tor
a while to take a breather, then,
coming again in the final Quarter,
won by 50yds. in 14mm. 23.65ec.
Final count of points for the Coombes
Shield saw Victoria with nine wins,
N.S.W. six, W.A. four and S.A. one.
* * * *
Making her first Australian appear-
ance at Melbourne Cricket Ground
on Saturday, Mrs. Blankers-Koen, de-
spite having had no time to acclima-
tise or do anything like serious train-
ing, managed to give quite a fair
inkling of her ability. The Dutch
champion had little difficulty in win-
ning the 100yds invitation race
(114sec.),\ the 80-metres hurdles
(11.75ec.) and the high jump (4ft.
llin.). A colorful figure m her bright
orange shorts and crimson shoes, and
a fine athlete.
* * * *
Other lady visitors to these parts
fared not so well, the English
cricketers being outplayed by the Aus-
tralian lasses in the first Test at
Adelaide. Following the Australian
XTs first-innings score of 213, tne
English girls fell for 72 before the ex-
cellent spin bowling of Betty Wilson—
her stout effort (26.5 overs, 1,6
maidens, six wickets for 23 runs) drew
exclamations pf astonished pleasure
from at least lone intended sceptic in
Clarrie Grimmett. The Australians
closed their second knock with 173
for the loss of five wickets; Eng-
land responded with 128 and lost the
match by 186 runs. Total “gate for
the women’s Test was £1172 , if the
girls continue playing the bright brand
of cricket they’ve shown so far they
need have no fear on the finances.
* * * *
Sheffield Shield:
Victorian batsmen had a merry
time against the Queensland bowlers
at Brisbane last week. On Friday,
after three wickets had crashed for
64 runs, Hassett, with Loxton (84),
put on 170 for the fourth wicket, and
with Stackpole (53) added 151 for
the fifth wicket; the day ended with
five down for 378. Hassett went early
on Saturday with a nicely-compiled
205 to his credit, and his side was
dismissed for a total of 456. Hassett
appears to make an annual practice of
whipping up a double century against
Queensland —200 in 1946-47, and 204
in 1947-48, were previous efforts.
• * * •
A 1 Smith’s performance against
George Sands at Leichhardt Stadium
suggested that eitWtr he or his ad-
visers have never heard the old sport-
ing axiom “Don’t change a winning
game.” Though enjoying only a small
advantage in the weights, scaling
10.8 f against Sands’s 10.7, Smith was
much taller and longer in the reach.
With clever, fast boxing, continually
beating his opponent to the punch,
Smith was piling up points and had
the match well won, when some mis-
guided notion inspired him to go for a
k.o. in the 10th round. Charging into
close quarters he tried to trade
punches with the hard-hitting Sands
and that was the end of brother
Smith.


*mAT
sr
th e:
Who will protect
their interests?
Capable administration alone can carry out your wishes.
That is why your executor or trustee must possess highly
specialised knowledge, extensive experience, the ability to
make wise decisions, ample time, and solid financial backing.
Every beneficiary deserves the careful and unbroken
administration that Burns Philp Trust Company Limited
devotes to each estate. Write for a complimentary copy of
"Hands That Never Leave the Wheel." This booklet fully
explains the Company’s many services.
Janies Burns
MANAGER: L. S. Parker
DI RECTORS;
Joseph Mitchell
Eric Priestley Lee
SECRETARY: E. R.
P. T. W. Black
Overton, A.F.I.A.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR e TRUSTEE • AGENT
Constituted by Special Act of the N.S.W. Parliament
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone: BU 5901
Box 543, G.P.0., Sydney
BPIB-48
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies ... .. .. 21-
Yearly Subscription.. .. 22/6
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper
Co. Pty., Ltd., Sydney.
BANISH GREY HAIR
with
NASONS
Available at
Anthony Horderns’
This “limousine-comfort” cab
&
mm\
4
ft
m
&
;. ■ ;
<*: ;\
r
featured on
Th e AH Bri
fIOMMEB
5 & 7 Tenners with
“UHDERFLOOR” Engine
4
before has a commercial vehicle offered such comfort to the driver.
Ample accommodation for a crew of three is afforded in the all-steel cab
w ich has a full forward, wide vision windscreen providing first-rate visibility;
a clear, level floor ; correctly placed controls ; well upholstered seats which are
adjustable, and fittings more in keeping with a luxury car than a truck.
Excessive noise and heat are obviated: the former as a result of the location
of the rubber-mounted “under-floor” engine; the latter by virtue of a simple
yet effective system of temperature control which enables the cab to be cooled
or heated according to climate or season.
DISTRIBUTORS:
QUEENSLAND:
John McGrath Motors (Pty.) Ltd.,
£2l Wickham Street, The Valley,
Brisbane. Tel. L 1817.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Commercial Motor Vehicles Ltd.,
217 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
Tel. Central 25Q0,
NEW SOUTH WALES:
John McGrath Motors (Pty.) Ltd.
Head Office and Showrooms:
252 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Tel. MA 6838.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Skipper Bailey Motor 00. Ltd.,
900 Hfty Street, Perth.
Tel. B mi.
VICTORIA:
Neal’s Motors Pty. Ltd.,
222 Exhibition Street,
Melbourne.
Tel. Central 7550.
TASMANIA:
D. L. Hollis Motors Pty. Ltd.,
Cnr. York and St. John Streets,
Launceston. Tel. 1676.
PRO
T f S
THIS
DUPLICATOR
jp Has all (he finest features
oi nign-pncea imponea
SEND FOB
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
machines at only a frac-
tion of their cost. The
“National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce
Typing, Writing. Flans.
Music, etc.
Built entirely in Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Dutributtnt A[cnLs*~
SYDNEY w. C. Penfold & Co. Pty. Ltd
MELBOURNE . Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd
ADELAIDE . Vardon Sc Sons Ltd
Missing Friend.
ESTATE WILLIAM SABISTON Deceased.
WOULD any person knowing the present
whereabouts of JEAN MILLESH (or
HELLISH), formerly of Mildred Terrace,
Swansea, Largs Bay, South Australia,
who claims an interest In the above-
mentioned estate, communjpate with
BAKER McEWIN MILLHOUSE AND
WRIGHT, Solicitors, Morialta Chambers,
Victoria Square, Adelaide?
WAKE UP YOUR
LIVER BILE—
Without Calomel—And You’D Jump
Out of Bed in the Morning Full of
Vim.
! The liver should give out two
i pounds of liquid bile daily or your
food doesn’t digest. You suffer from
wind. You get constipated. Your
whole system is poisoned and you feel
irritable, tired, and weary and the
I world looks blue.
Laxatives are only makeshifts. You
must get at the cause. It takes those
good old Carter’s Little Liver Pills
to get those two pounds of bile
working and make you feel “up and
up.” Harmless, gentle, yet amazing
in keeping you fit.
Ask for CARTER’S Little Liver
/Pills by name. Stubbornly refuse
anything else. V- end 1/L
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy copy of The Science of
Facial Expression by Louis Kuhnc. —
4541.
To buy or exchange copies of “The
Native Companion,” particularly
October, November and December,
1907.-4542.
To buy copy of Professional Radio
Writing by Albert Crewes.—4543.
Mate wanted visit Moscow via
Siberian (Vladivostok) railway.—4544.
To buy Seven Years’ Harvest,
edited by Sidney Gutman, Stacy
Aumonier’s Ups and Downs, Aldous
Huxley’s Mortal Coils, Willa Gather’s
Obscure Destinies, Australian Short
Stories, edited by Mackaness, An Aus-
tralian Story Book, edited by Nettie
Palmer, H. G. Wells’s Collected
Stories, collections of Jack London’s
short stories, O. Henry’s Road of
Destiny and The Four Million, Gavin
Casey’s Birds of a Feather, Margaret
Trist’s In the Sun, Dal Stivens’s The
Tramp, Douglas Stewart’s A Girl
with Red Hair, K. S. Prichard’s
Patch and Colour, Coast to Coast
(1948 edition), and James Courage’s
Fifth Child. —4545.
To exchange a copy of Ego 1 by
James Agate for Ego 6. —4546.
Information Sought.
n
(1) Date of the Mclvor gold robbery
in Victoria? (2) Names of the
robbers? (3) What happened to
them ? (4) Was the gold recovered ?
(5) How much?
(1) In 1853. (2) and (3) Five (out
of 12) were accounted for. John
Murphy (or John Francis) was
arrested aboard the Madagascar in
Port Phillip. Admitting guilt he
turned informer, repented of this and
committed suicide. His brother
Jeremiah (or George), arrested in
Queensland, gave information, thus
escaping punishment. George Wilson
and two ex-convicts, Melville and
Atkins, were tried for murdering the
bailed-up driver, who had died of
wounds. They were hanged on Oct.
3, 1853. (4) and (5) Gold valued at
£SOOO was taken; little was recovered,
* ♦ * *
What kind of musical instrument is
(1) the serpent, and (2) the viol
d’amore? (3) What is Gregorian
music ?
(1) A bass wooden wind instrument
covered with leather and bent in a
serpentine form. It is now practically
obsolete, its place being taken by the
euphonium. Mendelssohn used it in
his works. (2) A slightly larger form
of viola, with seven gut strings and
seven (or more) wire “resonance”
strings passing under the finger-board
and sounding sympathetically as the
gut strings are played. It is now
nearly obsolete. (3) The traditional
and official kind of music used in
ecclesiastical offices, the arrangement
and editing of which are attributed
to St. Gregory the Great. It is also
called plainsong. The scales or notes
used are non-chromatic.
♦ * * *
Is there any truth in the yarn about
the early Australian settler who
brought soil from Ireland to banish
snakes? Where is the incident re-
corded ?
The “Journal” of the Royal Aus-
tralian Historical Society, Vol. 3,
pages 507-530, relates that Sir Henry
Browne Hayes, an Irishman who was
transported to Australia in 1801 for
abduction, resided on ticket-of-leave
at the Vaucluse estate, Sydney. He
attempted to banish snakes from the
neighborhood of his home by sur-
rounding the house with turf from
Ireland. The bill of lading for the
imported soil was in existence late
in the last century.
* * * *
(1) Why was Martin Cash trans-
ported ? (2) Was he sent to Tasmania
direct ? (3) Who were his bushranging
companions? (4) What territory did
they range? (5) His ultimate fate?
(1) For trying to murder his rival
m a love affair. (2) No, he settled
there after serving his sentence in
N.S.W. (3) Kavanagh and Jones.
(4) Southward to the Derwent, north-
ward to the Macquarie and westward
to Lake Echo, with headquarters on
the Dromedary, north of New Nor-
folk. (5) He was arrested in 1843 and
sentenced to death. Reprieved after
15 months of suspense, he was sent
to Norfolk Island. Good conduct
won him a pardon, and he returned
to Tasmania in, 1853, becoming care-
taker of Hobart Botanical Gardens.
He died in 1877.
♦ ♦ * ♦
(1) Is the koala a tree-living animal,
and is it at home on the ground?
(2) Does it get about much during
daytime? (3) What food does it live
on? (4) Do they live in colonies?
(5) How many are born at the one
time ? (6) How are the young carried ?
(1) It is essentially arboreal, and
its movements when it descends to
the ground are awkward and clumsy.
(2) It is mainly nocturnal, though it
may sometimes be seen moving about
in the daytime. (3) Almost exclusively
eucalyptus-leaves, but it descends
occasionally in search of other vege-
tation or to dig for roots. (4) They
generally live in pairs. (5) and (6)
Only one. This is very small at first,
and is retained in a pouch; when it
.becomes able to leave this shelter it
is carried about for some time clinging
to its mother’s back or shoulder.
j|e sfc £
How to make cider? .
Gather fully-matured apples and
store them in a cool place for 14
days. If you have not a cider-press
place the apples in a strong wooden
tub and crush each one with a piece
of wood, straining the juice into an
upright wooden cask with a tap placed
about two inches from the bottom.
When the cask is almost full, cover
it with cheesecloth and watch for
signs of fermentation. When bubbles
begjn run off the juice through
the tap into a smaller cask till the
latter is quite full; leave the bung
open and allow the liquor to work,
removing the foam daily. When fer-
mentation ceases, draw off the clear
liquid and bottle. Store in a cool
place.
* * * *
Is the songlark an Australian bird,
and how can it be identified ?
There are two species peculiar to
Australia. The male brown songlark
(Cinclorhamphus cruralis ) is a bird
about nine inches in length, dull
brown above and blackish below;
the female is very much smaller. The
rufous songlark (C. inathewsi) is seven
inches long, brown above with a
rufous patch at the base of the tail,
and whitish below. In habits they
greatly resemble the true larks
C AlaudicUe ), running on the ground
and rising into the air to pour forth
a melodious song while soaring up-
wards ; but they also sing while
perched in trees or flying from one
tree to another. The nest of dry
grass is built on the ground in the
shelter of a tussock; four eggs are
laid, the ground-color of which is
white, almost obscured by reddish
and purplish freckles. Both species
are found all over the continent
(mainly inland). Neither extends to
Tasmania.
* * * *
I wish to lay down a green concrete
path. What material should I use
to obtain the color ? Quantity of
coloring material and how mixed with
the concrete?
Vetramine green (51b. to 61b. per
bag of cement, 941 b.) for a light
shade; lime green (71b. to 91b. per
bag of cement) for a medium shade;
chromium oxide (81b. to 101 b. per bag
of cement) for a dark shade. The
color should be mixed with the cement
dry before any sand or water is added.
Take one bag of cement, spread on
a concrete mixing board, add the
color and well mix by hand until
uniform, then pass through a fine
sieve (100 mesh if possible) several
times. Too dry a mix will yield a
dull lifeless tone, and too wet a mix
will yield irregularly-colored surfaces,
due mainly to efflorescence. A steel
floating trowel gives a darker color
than the wooden float. A concrete
cured in sunlight will give a lighter
color than one cured in the shade.
Trowelling on partly-hardened sur-
faces produces blotches.
Brief Answers.
W.G.: The red-crested parrakeet is
a tiny bird, with a green back, blue
head and face and wings, a
scarlet chest and yellow abdomen....
T.W.W.: Red spider is the cause.
Remove the affected leaves and spray
the plants and ground with lime-
sulphur solution. Put in fresh strong
runners and keep them well watered.
F.P.: What is called in Sydney
a flying gurnard is Pterygotrigia
polyommata, and is incapable of
flight. The true flying gurnard is
Dactyloptena orientalis, which can
leap from the water and glide rapidly
through the air E.N.: One pound
of calcium arsenate is mixed with
91b. of bran, and the whole made
into a stiff mash with molasses and
water. Small pieces are distributed
along the rows of affected plants at
dusk K.A.: To make home-made
shaving-soap take 5 parts whit© Castile
soap, 15 parts rectified spirits of
wine and 15 parts rosewater. Shave
up the soap finely, mix in the rose-
water, and melt together over a gentle
flame; then stir in the spirits and
pour into jars to cool A.W.L.:
Let them flower and remove the spent
heads; fresh laterals will soon appear.
Under proper treatment bouvardias
will bloom nine months of the year.
E.V.: In Australia pure beef oleo
and locally-produced cotton-seed oil
and peanut are the materials most
commonly used in the manufacture of
margarine. ~.L.A.: A light line
attached to a rod, with a small float
and a fly-hook, is used, the bait being
dough, white grub or moss. The use
of explosives for the capture of any
kind of fish is illegal C.G.: No.
The question of the organisation of
a tank arm was not taken up by
Italy until 1918. Manufacture of
tanks was then started, and by the
time World War I came to an
end a few Fiat machines were ready
to take the field, but none was
actually used S.S.F.: The rainbow-
bird is also and better known as the
Australian bee-eater ( Mcrops ornatys ).
It has brilliant plumage, in which
blue, green and orange predominate.
Throughout the greater part of Aus-
tralia it is a summer visitor, laying
its white eggs in a hole in sandy
ground J.L.: A second - hand
dealer’s licence must be held in N.S.W.
by any person, other than a ship-
chandler or shipowner, who carries
on the business of dealing in or buy-
ing and selling old wares of any kind.
S.B.: (1) Write Dept, of Agri-
culture, Sydney. (2) Cowles and
Dunn, 71 King-street, Sydney
R.T.: Write Under-Secretary, Dept,
of External Affairs, Canberra, A.C.T.


by Mr. Card w.ould have Sergeant
Leaney’s gusto. Only chuckles could be
expected from Mr. Card. That would be
enough, of course. But the sergeant’s
laugh was a deep gurgling affair that
went bouncing about the shop as he shot
out his words rapid-fire: “. . . Tenman
and his Tobies with ‘all their fancy cere-
mony and brand-new regalia . . . junk
hanging all over them . . . fair itching to
bury somebody and . . . ho, ho, ho . . .
them such a healthy mob . . . their picnic
down at the river and running a paper-
chase through the swamp . • • find the
body of some old deadbeat and . . . ho,
ho, ho . . . swoop' on it like hawks ...
bury him legally all right, but hell to pay
with the head Tobies . . . ho, ho, ho ... ”
More restraint could be expected from
Mr. Card.
“Yes, of course, I do remember hearing
about those Bonded Yeomen,” Marne
Loveditch was saying. “Sergeant Leaned
thinks they were a gjeat joke. Wasn’t
Foster Tenman the boss or something?”
GUITARS zooming in Wilfs mind
were beating out the skating-rink
tune more insistently now. The urge to
stride out set his feet tingling.
“Foster Tenman was Grand Exalted
Yeoman,” replied Mr. Card. “He was
sadly misunderstood.”
Mame Loveditch prattled on, one ear
cocked for activity behind the hedge:
“And didn’t he bury some old swagger
according to the secret rules, and get the
whole lodge put out for it?” She turned
to Wilf. “The sergeant’s always going on
about it in the shop.”
Wilf nodded authoritatively (nothing
would be more appreciated in the produce
mart than knowledge). “Sergeant Leaney
was a boy here when it all happened.
He says the Tobies’ 'last meeting was a
fair brawl.”
Wilf went no further. He’d be a mug,
he* thought, not to leave the comedy of
detail*for Mr. Gardes telling. This would
please the man if anything ever did. His
job in town seemed assured now. Just a
matter of jumping in at the right Time.
Mr. Card’s mirth mustn’t be allowed to
taper away. No cheeky interrupting
though. He supposed any sports-shop
would, take a down-payment on a pair of
skates; those issued on the rink weren’t
always the best. And then he’d soon be
whooping .through between timid be-
ginners, scaring the daylights out of them
and speeding away, laughter bubbling up
inside him. Work at the produce mart
would be pretty light, he reckoned, and
so leave him feeling fresh.
“This policeman makes a joke of our
disqualification, even' yet?” asked Mr.
Card. • •
WILF gave hinj an encouraging grin.
“He says that if the Tobies hadn’t
been so keen to bury somebody they d
be going yet.” No need to mention the
sergeant’s.own view that the man who had
died in the swamp was working a still
for the Quinns of the oldloll-house, and
that they had disowned him.
But somehow Mr. Card*wasn’t smiling.
Instead, r he rounded on Wilf. His voice
was hard and firm, passionately choked.
“The man we found in the swamp bad
no home and no friends,” he asserted,
glaring into Wilf’s dismayed eyes. “Foster
Tenman modified our ritual to give him
a Christian burial. He had the last dignity
of mourners at his graveside. And for
that I’ve come to see Foster Tenman
buried today.”
In that recess in the hedge, where tjie
drifting wa trapped and miruded.
resinous tree scents with a leathery
oppressiveness and faintly piercing over-
tones from Mr. Card was
questioning a blank prospect of death,
and Wilf regarded with apprehension this
man crouching beside him.
He’s scared of something, Wilf decided,
haying' been daunted only momentarily.
Scared as*a rabbit.
The man’s tone had disturbed Marne
Loveditch. She swung round. • “Sergeant
Leaney exaggerates,” she said, offering
this as a comfort. “Mrs. ’Leaney took a
set on Foster Tenman because he harped
on about some fyy-law that said her pussy-
willow tree was a* noxious weed and
would have to come out. Foster Tenman
was always a bit like that, you know, sort
of officious—without meaning to speak
disrespectfully of the dead—and he con-
demned mine beside the shop, top. So
that’s why the sergeant was always going
on about Foster Tenman and that lodge
business. X think his wife must have been
behind it all.”
“It’s all so long ago,” Mr. Card com-
plained. “It would have been kinder of
people to forget.”
Then Mame Loveditch turned the
hedge again, not lightly or sohcitously
this time. §he made something like a
curtsey and’ looked into Mr. Card’s .face
withithat peculiar expression of piety and
consternation that a funeral can inspire.
«•»
uHTHEY’RE coming out now,” she
1 whispered.
“I see. I see. Coming out now,” he
murmured. “I see.” He had put on his
hat and was fumbling with his leather
gauntlets. She helped him on with them.
“Thank you for all your kindness,” he
said, and clasped her hands. “It’s such
a great joy to find a friend. I’ll remember
you when the calendars go out.” He
granted Wilf a.nod.
At’the opening to their shelter he stood
erect, surprisingly tall. Then, sweeping
aside the pine-tuft, he steadied himself
against the wind and made for his car.
His gait was furtive and bounding.
Scared, Wilf told himself. Scared as a
rabbit.
Marne Loveditch was pressing so hard
into the hedge that macrocarpa twigs had
closed across behind her.
Wilf lounged back, hearing the click of
door-snibs closing gently.
Then, on a tide mounting from a
whisper, one car roof after another glided
off precisely along the gorse, and soon
there was only the faint reminder of
petrol fumes being carried.back.
Wilf regarded Mame Loveditch’s back
view distastefully for a moment —gum-
boots, and a. raincoat ballooning over
sturdy hindquarters —and then swung
away the tufted pine-branch and stepped
outside.
AS he went down the hedgeline, he
whistled the skating-rink tune.
Great the way they could string a few
notes together to make a tune, he mused ;
using them a few times in the same order
like that and then turning them upside-
down when you’re not expecting it. Pass-
ing Tenman’s fowlhouses, he was deep in
an analytical study—with thematic illus-
trations whistled through the teeth. Mak-
ing up. tunes couldn’t be so hard, he
reckoned. He might haVe a go at it some
time. Something easy and slow to start
with. By golly, he’d be composing music
before they’d catch him working at Card s
Produce Mart. If there was anybody he
had less time for than a shrewd woman
(crafty shrewd) it was a miserable bloke
like Card.
The wind was behind him, tipping his
sou’-wester over his eyes and urging him
along to the old stack stand, and the
manure that Mame Loveditch prized so
highly.
RAIM
ALAN SYMINGTON
HENRY LAWSON, in “In a Wet
Season,” paints a dreary picture
of the Bush when it’s raining. But
I dunno! You can get several
things from rain—rheumatics, and fed-up,
and all that. But there is Hope, with rain.
You know it will stop some time, and the
mud will be less than three feet deep, and
the missus will stop complaining about
everlastingly drying clothes around the
fire, and about the mess you bring in op
your boots. And you know there’ll be
grass from now on, for a while at least,
and if you have got to watch that the
stock don’t overdo it till they get used
to it, that's better’n not having to bother
because there isn’t anything to bloat on.
It may be tough to run into weeks of
rain when you’re humping your bluey, but
if you’ve got even a b*rk humpy you feel
all right leaning in the doorway watching
the rain come down. It makes your resi-
dence cosier in comparison, and even if
it doesn’t stop work altogether it changes
the nature of your labors, and somehow
eases the pressure and responsibility of
fine weather.
It softens the outlines of the Bush, does
away with the glare and barrenness, seems
to smother behind its grey curtain the
troubles and worries of everyday life.
And the dam is filling steadily, and the
cracks in the earth filling up. You know
you’irbe able to plough after this.
Maybe your mates will drop in during
the mprning, quietly cheerful over the
weather, and you yarn till lunch-time
about everything under the sun —when it
appears again. And then they, or he, will
leave —“The missus will be wondering
where I’ve got t 0.... ”
BEING a farmer, we admit the dis-
advantages of too long a rain. It’s
marvellous what a mixture the hooves of
livestock can work up from the soil —
even fifty fowls can tread the earth into
as’gluthery a mess as*you’d like to skid
into *any time. And working your way
into only partly-dried clothes when you
go out calls for about as much willpower
as is required at any time. The animals
can go sick, too, and you wish the sun
would come out and firm, things up a bit.
But knowing all that we still prefer rain.
Rain is far more often over and gone
in a day or two' than the drought. You
don’t know when it will end, and it may
end too late. You may have tied a bit
of rope around the gate and walked off
by then. But we never heard of anyone
hayipg to walk away from the place be-
cause the rain kept on too long.
Except Noah, and his folks and the
livestock were saved, and the flood did
away with a lot of pests, including the
Government of the time, no doubt.
Someone will ask, “Have'you ever
milked a cow that has been standing out
in the rain all day?” We have, and we’ve
washed the udder of one that has been
reposing on her own rich manure. And
we’ve been flicked across the eyes with
a wet tail and had our foot trodden on
by a cloven hoof, and had our hopes in
various places sore from the playful toss
of a horned head. Wet or dry, nothing
is perfect. You can keep your cows in on
a wet night, with a heap of dead bracken
to lie on.
There will be some cleaning-up to do
in the momipg, but there is always some
cleaning-up to do with cows rajn or no
rain, and.not having to shelter under
dripping trees you know they won’t be so
likely to catch a chill in the several places
in which they can catch a chill when the
weather overdoes things.
It’s a grand feeling to go to bed know-
ing that not only yourself but all your
little kingdom is snug for the night. Far
more so than with a bright moonlit night
with the dry, hot wind blowing across the
parched earth, and not a cloud in the sky.
Then there are orchards. Ever noticed
orange-trees in a steady drizzle? They
stand very still, as though anxious not to
miss a drop, add you know that the
fruit will be bigger than if you hadn’t got
rain, which means perhaps another bushel
per tree from the same number of fruit.
It will make the weeds grow, we know,
but, personally, we never use cultivators,
and with the plough the more weeds the
better.
A DECENT rain doesn’t keep you in-
doors. Ever noticed how pleasurable
riding is in a gentle rain‘d The slcirt of
oilskin keeps your saddle and a fair part
of the horse, dry, and your seat is warm
and comfortable. The horse’s neck under
the mane is warm and dry, too. You slide
your hand in there to pat him, and it feels
good. He doesn’t seem tp mind the ram
either—perhaps the ground feels comfort-
able under foot, and the movement keeps
him warm.
If you’ve a companion of the other sex
with you, even the missus, it has its points.
A woman who will go riding in the ram
with you is on the right track. She will
still look attractive, even with the rain
dripping from the brim of her hat and the
tip of her nose. ' ' ,
People who brood darkly over the fact
that rain is no help either at shearing-
time or very desirable immediately after,
and is not to be the
“Sh, Madam! Walls have ears!"
oats or the wheat just right to harvest,
have our sympathy. We have had some.
Also, inch after inch in midwinter can
be done without.
About the hardest kind of drought to
bear is that in which quite respectable
grey clouds come about, sometimes hang-
ing overhead for days without raining.
And about the pleasantest sight is to see
a definite wall of grey coming toward you
on the breeze, hiding one hill andl valley
after another, or moving steadily across
the plain, until after months, even years,
of heartbreaking dry, you get some wet.
The sound of rain drumming steadily
on the tin roof, gurgling musically in the
gutters, is the sweetest lullaby wfve ever
heard. Sometimes it’s at night it comes,
and you wake up and lean on an elbow —
to make sure. Then you relax, smiling
happily, and gradually go off to sleep
again.
Sometimes it lasts only an hour or so,
and what a dull ache of despair that sets
up. And how humbly grateful you feel
when it resumes, properly this time.
PERHAPS you’ve stood on a rise and
watched all the best soil from
orchard moving gently but surely 'out
through the bottom fence on its way to
the gully, and visualised the months of
scooping required to get it back again,
knowing that most of it was irrecoverable.
Perhaps you had to stand, after making
your best effort, and watch your sheep
going away on the swift-moving, muddy
floodwaters, seen the water creep up the
walls of your homestead. Well, possibly
your trees would have crinkled up their
leaves and died, anyway, and the sight
of starving sheep and the
sound of them—and the smell of the dead
ones—i s n ot so wonderful either. And
we suppose that soil washed away is no
worse than blown away—and you can
do something after rain.
Like everything else, rain has its bene-
fits and its handicaps, but we know which
we prefer. .
You can take shelter from ram, but
you can’t get in out of a drought.
Flowerpiece.
The red flower was frozen in
T the night
To this fantastic gem,
Nor moved the glittering fish
within the pond,
Nor swayed the jonquil’s head
Beneath the far
And icy star.
The frost took all the night.
No finger tapped the window
And the doors
Endured without gossip
And the floors,
Unghosted, lay as flat *
As the flat sea against the
garden wall.
The frost commanded all.
n.s.w.
Elizabeth Riddell.


WE watch the LBS
YOU qet the £SD
Fat stock can lose pounds of valuable condition if badly handled in the sale-
yards, so make sure your stock keeps that “fresh from the paddock” bloom,
by selling through A.M.L.&F. Experienced droving, drafting and penning have
always earned A.M.L.&F. the praise of seller and buyer alike.
Carefully maintained condition and astute auctioneering by the “A.M.L.&F.
man” ensure top market value for your stock, in the paddock, at Homebusb,
or any other yard.
85 Years in the Service of the Man on the Land.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance Coy. Ltd.
Inc. in England in 186 S.
4 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches at Newcastle, Wagga, Moree, Henty and Hay.
A 20,22
The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery eloth to
grinder discs—recommended for shearing-shed work.
mm
• ' < * w
. \\
;> • i
. y
aamcnsE
4fz., Soz., 160 z., 1 gallon sizes . . . Hardware and general stores.
For immediate delivery contact
Famous British
ENGINES
are
NOW
AVAILABLE
at
REDUCED
PRICES
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY. LTD.
’PHONE: MA 6311 7-11 MARKET ST., SYDNEY
ŵ
The "ATLAS” 8-inch LATHE
Built to Recognised Standards of Accuracy
The Dr. Schlesinger standards of accuracy are rigidly
observed in the building of all “MARS” Lathes.
In addition, all necessary revolving parts are
DYNAMICALLY BALANCED and Gear Teeth are
Generated. Hence the smooth vibrationless running
of “MARS” Lathes.
The Leadscrew in all
Master Lead Screw.
“MARS” Lathes is cut from a certified and tested
MARS MACHINE TOOL MFC. CO. PTY. LTD.
Precision loathes, Shapers, Millers and Planer*
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE.
ẁ
Distributing Agents: N»S,W.: Thomas Herbert &
Co. Pty.,.Ltd. Vic.: Herbert Osborne, Engineer,
567-9 Little Bourse St. (near King St),
Melbourne, C.l. S.A.: M. S. McLeod, Ltd.,
Adelaide. W.A.: The Western Machinery Co.,
Ltd Perth. Tas.; Charles Davies, Ltd., Hobart.
Calcutta: Ross Neil & Sons, Ohowringhee
Rd. Bombay Province: R. S. Mehta & Co., Ltd.,
Fort Bombay. Madras, Mysore, Cochin and
Puddukkottai: Australasian Trading Co.
(India), Ltd. Hongkong and Shanghai: The
East Asiatic Co., Ltd.
I
LICENSED
manufacturers
IN Q’LAND of
MEEHANITB
IRONS
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Handling Sheep.
“Ngaduri”: Have never been
on a dogless property myself, but
my jackeroo days were spent
under a manager who, now and
again, said “I’m paying you ;
not your dog. And the reason
you have a dog is in case you
get into trouble. Meanwhile his
place is behind the horse.” We
never used and never found any
need for the conventional loud-
mouthed ruffian in the shed or
yards. The quieter one goes
about sheep the better they
work. If they’re mustered
quietly and walked in they run
easily in the yards; if they’re
forced and shoved in the pad-
dock they’ll stick like glue at
the drafting-gate.
Best plan is to have a few
little two-to-five-acre paddocks
handy to the shed. They should
be well sheltered with trees and
the feed therein given free rein
in the growing season. Muster
into these and allow the sheep
to settle down and have a quiet
feed before yarding. They
eliminate shepherding in doubt-
ful weather, and, if sheep have
been shedded a long while be-
cause of rain, they can be then
let out, where they are handy,
for a pick and a drink for the
lambs before being shedded
again for shearing. One farmer
has these paddocks all round the
house, sheds, yards and con-
served fodder, and in eating them
out methodically every shearing
(October) he provides himself
with a natural first-class insur-
ance against fire. Shorn sheep,
also, can be held and allowed a
feed overnight before being
taken to the outer paddocks—
with a greatly reduced risk of
losses from cold.
Daylight shedding is another
evil. Few sheds are sufficiently
well-lighted or the entrances so
placed that the sheep will run
up without having to be forced.
If they don’t want to go leave
them in the yard nearest the
shed. After tea take down three
on. four lanterns and hang them
along the length of the shed, one
just inside the entrance, others
at main gates and one at the
farthest end. Then walk back,
through them, and, running to-
ward the lights, they’ll stream
into the shed and pens quicker,
easier and more quietly than
they ever will in daylight. You
won’t need a dog or rattle—or a
flapping - bag. What’s more,
they’ll fill the pens to the
correct number—the one which
leaves them comfortable.
Cobalt and Sterility. «
“Agamerqnon”: Cobalt as a
cure for sterility in cattle is
effective in some cases, but on
most farms it will be disap-
pointing. Certain definite areas
in Maoriland, S.A. and W.A.
have been proved cobalt-de-
ficient, and in these the addition
of as little as loz. of cobalt or a
few pounds of limonite in
1001 b. of lick has worked won-
ders, not only for sterility but
for wasting and other troubles.
These areas are well defined,
and the use of cobalt outside
them has been disappointing.
The main cause of sterility in
Australian cattle is contagious
abortion ( Brucellosis ). This
disease may cause a preliminary
abortion and then frequently
causes permanent sterility. At
this stage all that can be done
is to fatten the cattle for the
butcher. The disease cannot be
treated at present, but may be
prevented by inoculation with
Strain 19 vaccine. Most States
restrict the use of this vaccine
to heifer calves between four and
eight months, and in this' way a
resistant herd may be built up in
a few years, Australian figures
so far suggest that vaccination
will cause a 90 p.c. reduction in
abortion and sterility on badly-
infected farms.
Broodiness.
“K.T.”: Light breeds are
rarely broody. When they are
it is said to be a sign of im-
purity of breed. Heavies, such
a s Australorps, Langshans,
Rhode Island Reds and Light
Sussex, as well as lesser-known
breeds, are all subject to broodi-
ness. Birds which are habitually
broody should be placed in the
fattening coop and sent to mar-
ket ; but birds which go broody
only 6nce or twice in the year
are often among the best layers.
Many of the high producers
around the coveted 300-egg
mark have been broody in their
pullet year. A pullet some years
ago in Victoria laid 140 eggs in
141 days and then went broody.
So that broodiness doesn’t neces-
sarily mean that the hen is a
cull. At Hawkesbury (N.S.W.)
egg-laying competition there is a
class for heavy breeds and one
for light breeds, and every year
the leading Australorp groups
are well ahead of the leading
White Leghorns.
When a hen stops laying
temporarily she very rarely be-
gins laying again before five or
six weeks, but a hen which goes
broody will begin to lay two or
three weeks later, provided she
is put off the “cluck” immedi-
ately and fed well while shut in
the broody coop. Persistent
broodies and those which make
a long sp'ell of broodiness are
culls.
The short spell the broody
hens get is beneficial. I have
noticed that when a hen begins
laying after coming from the
broody coop she lays longer
sequences than usual for some
weeks, thereby literally making
up for most of the time lost.
But not this with the hen which
ceases laying through causes
other than broodiness. She has
lost too much time and should
go into the market crate.
If birds are selected for
stamina, type and laying quali-
ties the broody factor will
naturally decrease. A good idea
is to place a ring on the offen-
der’s leg each time she is broody.
Then it will be seen at a glance
which ones are most frequently
in the broody coop.
Hybrid Maize.
“Agric”: Hybrid maize is
rapidly finding favor with
Queensland farmers, although it
is necessary to purchase new
“I thought it Would buck Dave up if I brought a
couple of his friends along.”
seed each year if the best crop is
to be obtained. W. G. Foxwell,
Highland View, Coomera, con-
siders that the hybrid variety
will revolutionise maize-growing
in Queensland. Foxwell bought
some seed from Armidale
(N.S.W.), and although the
property had very little rain up
to early in January, the maize
never stopped growing. The
number and size of the cobs are
such that the crop will exceed
that of any maize he has grown
previously. Foxwell is chairman
of the Southern Queensland
Dairy Cos., Ltd., and his experi-
ment is being watched with in-
terest. *
Mallee Wheat Contest.
“Mr.”; The championship this
year was won by M. W. Gniel,
Rosebery, winner also of the
Beulah competition. Gruel's
crop (Bencubbin), which aver-
aged 32.8 bushels, was described
as an excellent sample of bright,
plump grain. It weighed 61\\h.
to the bushel and scored 96
points out of a possible 100. R.
A. Boehm, the Hopetoun win-
ner, was second with a crop of
Quadrat which yielded 15\
bushels, scoring 87 points. J.
M. Cooper, Nullawil, was third
with Ranee 4H, which yielded
25 bushels and scored 86 points.
The Farm Competitions Asso-
ciation ran the contest, and the
Victorian R.A.S. donated cash
prizes worth £75. Victorian De-
partment of Agriculture did the
judging.
Strawb. to Star.
“Masphar”: A nationwide
search has begun in Britain for
a .new type of film-star, Eng-
land’s most beautiful cow. She
must have other assets besides
beauty, however, and her casting
qualifications include; Jersey
for preference, a§ Jerseys have
in past pictures proved more
photogenic; horns are optional,
but she must walk gracefully
and have good milking qualities,
be intelligent enough to be
taught to moo to cue and look
sad or happy. The winner will
be given a good salary, will
work a five-day w.eek and have
‘lavish quantities of food. The
man detailed to find her, Roy
w
threepenny piece in a fresh egg),
condition of yolk and presence
of blood or meat spots. If the
eggs are to be placed in a pre-
servative solution it’s got to be
quite cold beforehand. Store
in a cool, airy location.
Germ Nursery.
“Bughouse”: It would be in-
teresting to know just what
kinds of bacteria reside in a
dog’s mouth. With the human
the orifice is swarming with such
life. Taken in bulk it is gener-
ally referred to as green bacteria
and is held to be beneficial in
various ways. Anyway, so long
as it remains in the mouth it is
harmless.
But let the human subject be-
come possessed of chronically
inflamed tonsils, or ditto gums,
then these harmless microbes,
finding in this way a passage of
entry to the bloodstream, be-
come harmful. In their new
environment they rapidly multi-
ply to such myriads as to rival
the white corpuscles. Also,
curiously, they appear to be im-
mune from corpuscular attack,
possibly because they are also
products of the same body.
A number of serious com-
plaints have been traced to this
invasion—thrombosis, for in-
stance, bloodclot in the veins,
which may arise from the rein-
fection of the long-healed scars
owing to an earlier attack of
rheumatic fever. Chronic diar-
rhoea and excessive heart palpi-
tation are often concomitants.
So when somebody tells you to
let a dog lick a wound be care-
ful.
Concreting Wells.
“Atlanta”: The earth wall of
the hole should be firm enough
to act as the outer form for
moulding the concrete. If walls
are not firm forms will have to
be made and the excavation en-
larged to provide room for them.
Collapsible interior forms
should be made in sections ; 4in.
X lin. timber for facing the
forms is generally suitable. A
coating of oil will prevent the
concrete sticking. For small
wells a 4in, wall thickness js
sufficient, but for large walls
6in. is recommended. Construct
the walls in courses of three to
four feet at a time, working
from the bottom up. Concrete
should be allowed 24 hours to
harden before forms are re-
moved and reset for the next
course.
A concrete platform surround-
ing the wefl is almost indis-
pensable. For wells of 6ft.
diameter or less a platform 4ip.
thick at the edges is adequate if
reinforced with rods of not less
than iin. diameter and spaced
sin, apart in both directions.
The rods should be embedded
about above the lower sur-
face of the concrete. If rods
aren’t available heavy wire
mesh will do.
The form for the cover is
made by building a tight board
platform, braced in position
from below or attached to the
wall. Before pouring the con-
crete provision should be made
for a manhole in the cover and
an opening for the pump. Bolts
can be set in the concrete for
attachment of the pump base.^
N.S.W. Tobacco.
“He-ne”: Prospects for the
current season’s tobacco crops
are favorable, although acreages
are somewhat smaller than last
year, N.S.W. total area is 320
acres, of which about 270 are
in the Texas district (on the
Queensland border), 45 acres at
Ashford and five at Tam worth.
Production should be more than


THE HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
The self-contained, self-emptying
Sanitary System,
Est. 1937.
Imitation is Sincerest Flattery
Beware of imitations similar in appear-
ance but lacking the internal patent
which makes the Hygeia Dissolvenator
so efficient.
Intending purchasers are invited to in-
vestigate tiie integrity of the Hygeia
Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd., the bona tides of
the Hygeia Dissolvenator, as well as the
value and scope of the Hygeia Guarantee
compared with any other guarantee.
The Hygeia Guarantee includes 7 years
against corrosion.
Let the record of the 12,009 Dissol-
venators sold during the past 22 years
be your guide—do not be misled by
specious statements.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 20 years.
DISTRIBUTORS;
NJ3.W.; Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
Queensland: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Qld.),
609 Colonial Mutual Building, Queen
St., Brisbane.
Victoria; Hygeia Dissolvenators (Vic.)
Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
South Australia: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co.,
(S.A.), Edment’s Building, Bundle
St., Adelaide.
Western Australia: R. P. Mclnemey &
00., Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
Tasmania: Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd., Laun-
ceston and Hobart.
Look after your
boG
a
Be on the watch for sTgns of listlessness,
poor appetite, warm nose, or a dull,
loose or ragged coat. Digestive disorder*
often produce these symptoms and they
are warning signals that should not be
ignored. Start your dog at once on a
course of Borko Condition Powder* if you
notice these symptoms.
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS
1/6 PER BOX AT ALL CHEMISTS
ROMn LDSON -TIPPETT
ENGINES
-
Pnacme mokes perfect-
The precise. split-second timing of the trapeze must
not fail for upon it depends LIFE.
No less important to the LIFE of an engine is the
precision of its manufacture.
Ronaldson-Tippett Engines are the product of nearly
fifty years of specialisation. The result is shown in
power units of unexcelled quality. Practice has indeed
made perfect and Primary Production and Industry
have progressed by reason of this important con-
tribution to their efficiency.'
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT LTD.
Head Office: BALLARAT, Victoria.
Showrooms: 628 Bourke Street, Melbourne. NSW.
Distributors: Ronaldson Bros, and Tippett, Ltd., 42
Bridge Street, Sydney. Queensland Distributors:
Ronaldson Tippett (Qld.) Pty., Ltd., Scottish Union
House, 127 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
RONdLDfON-TIPPETT
“HANDY HINTS FOR THE FARM”
Embracing Wheat, Sheep. Cattle, Pigs, Poultry, Horses, Fruit
and Vegetable Growing, the Apiary and General Farm Activity.
Price 1/- from Newsagents, or 1/2J posted from Bulletin Office,
252 George Street, Sydney.
YSAGHT
looks ahead
•LABORATORY RESEARCH
Few people realise that Lysaght's sheet steel and
galvanized iron are subject to vigorous laboratory
inspection and control throughout the entire pro-
cess of their manufacture. This department is also
employed in continuous forward research to de-
velop still higher grades of steel and special
qualities to meet the wide and varied needs of
the Australian manufacturer. Thus LYSAGHT
LOOKS AHEAD, even at a time when the full
resources of the company are being taxed to meet
the current demand tor the company’s products.
Among the well-known brands
of Lysaght's sheet steel in
constant demand for manufac •
taring purposes are the
following:—
SUNSTAR
SOUTHERN CROSS
CARBON STEELS
TERNE PLATE
ZINCANNEAL (R.L.)
ZINCANNEAL (PANEL)
The Lysaght workt,
Port Kembla, N.S.W.
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA)
Sydney. Melbourne. Brisbane, Adelaide, Fremantle
LI 87-6889
last year, when the harvest was
poor because of adverse weather
at the end of the season. Most
crops this year are making good
progress, but some grub and
worm damage is keeping
growers busy spraying and
dusting.
Sheep Drenches.
“Pharm”: Where there is no
fluke the best all-round drench
is bluestone and nicotine, given
in the right strength. In this
respect it may be noted that the
strength recommended by
N.S.W. Department of Agricul-
ture is almost double that recom-
mended by the Victorian one.
The stronger one, being more
effective, should be used, and it
allows for greater intervals be-
tween drenching, which is quite
a consideration. The following
is tested and may be given
safely: Bluestone, lib.; nicotine-
sulphate, 16 fluid oz.; water,
3gal.
Dissolve the bluestone and
make up to three gallons with
water. Add the nicotine-sulphate.
A stronger drench can safely be
given provided the sheep are not
weak by using only two gallons
of water.
Doses for both drenches:
Grown sheep, 20c.c. (|oz.);
two-tooth, 15c.c. (ioz.); six to
12 months, lOc.c. (|oz.); under
six months, sc.c. (one-sixth oz.).
Farm Management.
“Myrrhee”: Discussing farm
management, C. W. Brown,
H.D.A. (N.S.W.), makes some
suggestions:
Avoid large investments in
permanent improvements, ex-
cept where essential. As labor is
the most expensive item, look
into the question of using
machines. Strive to increase
production without increasing
expenses. With crops this can
be done by using only best-
quality seeds and giving a little
more attention to preparation
of the ground before sowing;
with animal production by re-
placing low-grade cows, ewes,
sows and hens with stock from
proved sources.
Brown advises selecting at
least one major enterprise and
combining this with one or two
minor supplementary ventures
arranged so as to spread em-
ployment more evenly through-
out the year. He recommends
also that as large a share of the
family’s foodstuffs as possible
be obtained from the farm itself.
This will reduce the cash outlay
for food, which costs a great
deal more, relatively, than pro-
duce sold from the farm. No
farmer should be too proud to
compare his farm with that of a
successful neighbor. There may
be some valuable lessons to be
learned.
Hints for the Farm.
“Bat”: One of the finest foods
to improve the general health of
fowls is boiled linseed. It is re-
markable how soon a be-
draggled-looking flock will re-
spond to the tonic properties of
the meal and the vitamins it con-
tains. A cupful should be soaked
in about four quarts of water
for four hours and then boiled
in it. When the mixture thickens,
allow it to cool and mix portion
of it with the mash every other
day, a dessertspoon for each
adult bird.
“Gem”: To make bituminous
paint or tar go further when
water - proofing concrete first
wet the concrete all over and
leave for 15 minutes or so. The
paint will form a sealing surface
on the concrete when it dries.
“Sarina”: In heavy grass
country the old, dry grass must
sometimes be fired to encourage
a green shoot. The ideal time to
do this is 4 " before the old stuff
can freshen up after a rain-
storm. The flames sweep away
the top without much heat, and
won’t travel after dusk. But
don’t light grass until the rain
has actually fallen and all pre-
cautions have been taken.
“Nubis”: When changing the
oil-filter (external type) always
change the sump oil. Also re-
move and clean the two oil-pipes
to the filter. Check the “in”
joint to the filter and the “in”
joint to the sump for sludge,
then blow through the pipe to
ensure that they are clear.
“Hanko”: In a weed-infested
corner scatter seeds of the
common calendula. It may take
the plants a season to get into
fighting-trim, but when they do
they’ll deal with those weeds in
commando style. Then, too, the
lemon and orange flowers of
the calendula make a bright
splash of color in dark waste-
lands, and as cut flowers, peep-
ing above a green jardiniere,
they are exquisite. Calendulas
flower almost throughout the
year.
“Big Billy”: Pigs under four
months respond better than
older pigs to a milk diet. Half
a gallon daily is ample, with,
grain and other foods. Any milk
left over may be given to the
older animals. Meatmeal is a
good substitute for separated
milk, a quarter pound equalling
half a gallon of milk. Provi-
sion of green-feed or chaff com-
pletes the diet, with the addition
of loz. daily per pig of a mixture
of four parts of ground lime-
stone and 11b salt.
“W. Court”: Keep prized
ferns and other potplants moist
whilst the family is on holiday
by setting them around a full
tub of water with two or more
strips of flannel or woollen scarf
material going from each pot
into the water. The potplants
should be soaked beforehand,
and then sufficient water will
soak along the flannel to keep
them moist.
“Big Billy”: Glenwari, anew
wheat from S.A.’s Waite Insti-
tute, is very popular in the dry
districts of the State. A vigorous
grower and high-yielder, the
wheat is resistant to smut and
rust. In trials in 13in.-rainfall
country Glenwari returned 38
bushels to the acre,
“Malo”: Chickens always
crowd together, no matter how
much space is available, and
many are lost through this habit
where flocks are not divided.
Large chicks should never be
penned with small ones, as they
peck them and prevent them
from getting a proper share of
food.
“Myrr”: It’s easy enough to
assess fertiliser quantities when
dealing in acres, but in a vege-
table patch, there’s a tendency
to miscalculate, resulting in over-
or under-fertilising. Reduced to
ounces or parts of an ounce to
the square yard, lewt. of fer-
tiliser per acre equals 0.370 z.;
2cwt., 0.740 z.; 3cwt., l.lloz.;
4 cwt., 1.480 z.; scwt., 1.850 z.;
6cwt, 2.220 z,; 7cwt., 2.590 z.;
Bcwt., 2.960 z.; 9cjyt., 3.330 z.;
and lOcwt, 3.700 z. An ounce
or two sounds little enough, yet
an ounce of fertiliser to the
square yard exceeds an acre
rate of 2cwt. An ounce of fer-
tiliser will fill a matchbox.
“Bai”: Not only beans, peas
and lentils improve the texture
of the soil —lucerne and sweet-
clover have the same effect.
These legumes are beneficial in
the orchard for keeping up the
supply of nitrogen as well as
supplying greens for horses and
poultry.
“Del”: One crop of swedes
should be sown in January and
another in spring to get in be-
tween frosts, although mild
frosting improves the flavor.
Plant in drills 15in. apart, cover
the seed with iin. of soil, thin
out the plants to four or five
inches apart and keep them
growing fast. Old cabbage- or
tomato-beds are suitable for
swedes, and a mixture of bone-
dust and super, in equal parts
makes a good manure.


tfvJ
Your choice Is CINZANO
Vermouth, whether your taste is for
sweet or dry. CINZANO Vermouth
gives just that extra exhilarating tang
to the palate.
Soaa*,
GIOBITE
TRAVEL CASE
They're lighter, stronger, longer-
lasting. That's why a Globite
costs less in the long run.
Made by
¥
'Hmfo&utfmeisco
IN THE LATEST, GREATEST DOUGLAS AIRLINER...
THE 300 m.p.h.
JMBT
FLYING THE “SOUTHERN CROSS” ROUTE WITH
BCPA
as
:
♦ This represents actual flying time.
En route, BCPA provide a 12-hour
stopover at Honolulu. ,
-v -v wr
BCPA present the magnificent DC-6
newest, finest, fastest' airliner to cross the
Pacific on regular schedules! In the
DC-6 you leave Sydney on Wednesday,
have lunch in San Francisco on Thursday.
You’ll sleep during “night” flying in
super-comfortable full-length bunks; fly
three miles up at 5 miles a minute;
enjoy the restful luxury- of fully air-
conditioned, pressurised cabins. There is no extra fare for the
DG-6, and your complete overseas journey, including the
through fare to U.K., may be arranged and paid for in
Australian currency. Special reductions for return trips.
Pressurised cabins prevent dis-
comfort at high altitudes.
Menus are designed to suit ail
tastes and snacks or light re-
freshments can be had at any
hour. There's a well-stocked bar,
too.
See for yourself how cleverly the
seats on the DC-6 convert into
sleepers. It's the last word in
airline luxury . . . with sheets,
blankets, reading lamp every-
thing for your comfort.
m
m
Ladies will appreciate the luxuri-
ous lounge—equipped for the
most exacting cosmetic ritual.
The menfolk also have two spaci-
ous well-fitted compartments.
ẃ
ẅ
w
ŵ
SYDNEY • FIJI • CANTON ISLAND • HONOLULU • SAN FRANCISCO •
VANCOUVER
BCA.7.SS
SMOKERS
PIPE TOBACCOS THAT ARE
BLENDED TO GIVE
SATISFACTION TO ALL.
HOUSE OF MURPHY. A blend of
the highest grade of leaf to give a
cool smoke of satisfaction that men
prefer. 22/- per lb. Posted.
A.A.A. HIIXTOP. A blend of
Australian, American and African.
20/- per lb. Posted.
WINSTON BEADY RUBBED
CIGARETTE TOBACCO. Greatly
improved by better blending of
mature leaf. 24/- per lb. Posted.
Special Quotes to Retailers for lots 20lb.
weight or over,
Write to: Cash Order Dept.,
Hillman Trading Co.,
Commercial Road, Brisbane.
Postage paid on Cash with order.
Postage extra on 0,0,D, Orders,
m
\
BLEMISHES
Spots, roughness
and soreness mar
the beauty of
akin and com-
plexion I Use Cuticura
Soap ■ regularly Its
antiseptic-and medicinal pro-;
parties make and keep the
skin exquisitely smooth and
charming. One of the famous
trio—Cuticura Soap. Oint-
ment and Talcum Powder.
ẁ
CHINA TO PERU
“Yangona” on the more re-
cent history of Cocos Island:
“Feng-Shui” errs slightly when he
says (B. 17/11/ ’4B) that the Emden
finished up her career on the reef at
Horsborough Island. That island is
only a mile from where the engage-
ment commenced; the raider tpok the
count on North Keeling, 22 miles dis-
tant. In the recent stoush Cocos got
its worst doing one evening when a
Jap cruiser slipped in close under
cover of darkness and gave us the
father of a belting. Our heavy arma-
ment consisted of two 6in. guns
mounted on Horsborough, but the
raider was immune from their fire as
she was protected by our island. The
damage appeared at first sight to be
much worse than it actually was. The
office had received a direct hit and
was an absolute shambles, delicate
instruments blasted from their posi-
tions and hopelessly destroyed; very
few were serviceable again, and if it
had not been for the spares buried
around the island the cables would
have been out of action for some
time. * The cables themselves were
luckily undamaged, and by midnight
we were again in communication with
Australia and London. Next day we
heard Tokyo radio announce that
“Last night our naval forces operating
in the Indian Ocean attacked the
islands of Cocos. We caused heavy
damage, starting fires that were still
visible 20 miles at sea. We destroyed
cable and wireless communication and
split the island in two.” This rather
exaggerated claim might have had
some justification had a shell hit a
small galvanised shack. The island
is only 400 yards by 200 yards, and
that shack contained 20 tons of
bombs, awaiting the arrival of the
Air Force planes that didn’t eventuate
for another two years. Immediately
after this raid London office of Cable
and Wireless, realising that there was
little prospect of sea or air protection
for this very vital link in communi-
cations, sent a radio message to
Batavia in plain English (knowing it
would be intercepted) to the effect
that the staff at Batavia were to
destroy all instruments, as Cocos had
been permanently put out of action.
This stratagem apparently was a com-
plete success; Cocos to all intents
and purposes disappeared from the
map. It was never mentioned by
name even in official dispatches—in-
stead it was known as “Brown,”
“Jones” or “Robinson,” the name
being changed monthly. This, how-
ever, did not prevent the Japs from
sending over a weekly flight of
bombers just to make sure. It was
during one of these raids that the
Governor, Sidney Clunies-Ross, lost
his life.
* * * *
Knight Bachelor in the New
Year honors list, Professor Syd-
ney Smith, once of Roxburgh,
M.L., now Dean of the faculty
of medicine and Regius Profes-
sor of forensic medicine at Edin-
burgh Uni. He was a chemist’s
assistant at 15 and, with no
secondary - school education,
climbed the upward path with
the same lack of assistance or in-
fluence. His ambition was
Edinburgh Uni., and soon after
realising it he won the Vaus
Dunlop Scholarship, maintain-
ing himself throughout his medi-
cal course by other scholarships
and student-coaching. In 1916
the Egyptian Government was
looking for a medico-legal ad-
viser and professor in its coun-
try’s university. Smith landed
the job. He was always in-
terested in medical jurisprud-
ence, and the peculiar variety of
crime prevalent in the east-west
junction of Cairo afforded
plenty of scope to enlarge the
experience gained with Edin-
burgh’s department of forensic
medicine. When, in 1924, the
Sirdar pf the Egyptian Army,
Sir Lee Stack Pasha? was mur-
dered, Smith was called in, and
his expert application of medical
science to crime-detection landed
eight criminals in prison, and
seven of them in the hangman’s
noose. The effort won him
world recognition, and in 1925
he published a students’ textbook
of forensic medicine, which, now
a standard work, has reached
eight editions. He left Cairo for
his present post in Edinburgh
in 1927.
* * * ♦
“F.M.C.” views an old friend:
Recently announced that Hubert
Wilkins has been sent by the U.S.
Air Force to Alaska on a special
mission to train young pilots how to
live under emergency conditions and
to study Arctic strategy.
Born near Adelaide in 1888, Wil-
kins had a spell at the local School
of Mines before going abroad at 24
to, seek his fortune. He laid the
foundations as a photographer-
correspondent with the Turkish Army
in the 1912 Balkans war. He was
gone with Stefansson to the Arctic
when the Kaiser’s war broke, but
returned with haste at the news, joined
the A.I.F. and appeared in France
as an official photographer, wearing
the White Arctic ribbon on his left
breast and the A.F.C.’s light-blue
bisected triangle as his shoulder-
patches.
His war photographs were out-
standing works, both of art and of
daring. With the cease-fire he re-
turned to Australia, with a passionate
desire to head some Australian
meteorological work —especially long-
range weather - forecasting —in the
Antarctic.
Australia really lost Hubert Wilkins
when its Government refused 20 years
ago to find the necessary cash —
change to the National Treasury—to
establish polar stations for this work.
This meanness of mind and purse
showed that this country was not,
scientifically speaking, big enough to
hold him.
Wilkins belongs to more royal and
other geographical societies and holds
more geographers’ gold and silver
medals than anyone else in the world.
No man living knows either polar
regions better. Since the Stefansson
Arctic expedition of 1913-17 (which
could have been called the Arctic
colonisation party) he has been almost
continuously exploring both polar caps
by air and sea, and even by sub-
marine. He was for six years before
1939 employed by Lincoln Ellsworth
as mentor and guide in Antarctic ex-
ploration, tried Australian reactions
again towards the end of that period,
sold the Federal Government the
Wyatt Earp and then finally turned
towards America for the rest of his
career.
Wilkins’s Pt. Barrow-to-Spitzbergen
flight in 1928 in search of Russian
polar airmen brought him a feting in
Moscow, where he discovered a Rus-
sian book about himself which had
already sold over 200,000 copies.
But it is not as somebody persona
grata to Russia that Wilkins has now
gone to Nome, Alaska, the nearest
point to Siberia in the Bering Strait.
It is typical of the man’s energy,
stamina and ability that, at 60, he has
maintained himself in the forefront
of men expert in his special subject,
and that he should be regarded by the
U.S. War Department as a highly-
important adviser on aerial strategy in
the Arctic regions.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany .
MS. should be addressed to the Editor.
N.D.: Interesting ; but you’d write
a lot better if you removed the coal-
scuttle from your veins.... J.A.McL.:
Roper River Jack should be con-
siderably boiled down... .W.J.P.:
Your anguish is nothing to ours
R.L.O’S. :
Oh I long to leave the city and listen
to the ditty
Of the bushland birds and buzz of busy
bees.
Off with you, then H.McN.: Your
profane greeting noted and returned.
D.M.R.: What did you write it
with —the hind leg of a fowl?
C.J.S. (England): Featherweights
P.K.: Come again Donvab: It’s
been done before Frosty: If you
rhyme “rum” with “begun” again
you’ll be nipped in the bud R.C.:
How do you expect us to decipher
those lines scratched and crammed
on the page beneath your covering
letter? M.H.: You’ll find it hard
to say anything new about Christmas.
P.M.J.: “Creek” very nearly
trickled in. Where’s your rhyme gone
in the second stanza? G. 5.1.:
51ight....8.J.: If you wouldn’t say
in prose “What be there there?”,
do»’t say it in verse G.C.G.: The
covering note is touching; but you’ll
never get in till you stop talking ab<put
nature in general terms and describe
some particular place R.McD.:
Close, as usual. You run on too
much and they sag into flatness
A.G.W.; Say it in six lines
W.J.S.: “Summer” is a-goin’ out—
J.K.F.: “Examination Room” isn’t a
particularly good poem, brut at least
its atmosphere is horribly convincing.
.... Bellerive: Box on:
L.L.: Nothing fre.sh in them
J.A.G.: “And I am left in stewful
endeavor.” Can’t pull you out of
that lot M.D.: But why?
E.M.L.: Stick to gardening
V.C.H.: Bluebirds on love’s magic
hill are likely to be shot around here.
B.S.: There’s a chance for you.
K.M.L.: Facetious poems about
Mr, Chifley are a drug in the market.
Sam Langford.
(Former colored light-heavyweight pugi-
list, known in the United States as Boston
Tar Baby.)
Health broken in
The united states
Boston tar baby of
Past heavyweights.
Though up in years
And sadly half blind
Still gamely retains
He’s cheerful mind.
Former great fighter
In a thrilling contest,
Victor of conquests.
When, at he’s best.


FOR
SUMMER
HOLIDAYS
5
m
trrz
*r . v, * -
■
YRES
/GOZ /fus/rafarf ... Cfto/npfb/fS of Me Root/
A PRODUCT OF THE OLYMPIC TYRE 6- RUBBER CO. LTD,
\ , •.T.19-16-4*
T INTARA
GOLD LABEL PORT
Australia’s
First
Selection
All over Australia,
Tintara Gold Label
Port is the natural
choice of all who
appreciate a gopd
wine. Its excellence
has won for
Tintara Port
every Australian
Championship.
/ often wonder
What the
Vintners buy
One half so
precious
As the*goods
they sell.
OMAR
KHAYYAM
k
m
m
m
/
iW
' v
XX \
III"
m
TH2B
MADE BT THOMAS HARDY ft SONS LTD., Adelaide. Melbourne. Sydney
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM’S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“Bright woman, 15-50, light house
duties.” — “S. M. Herald.”
Must shine at her work.
4* 4* *i*
“Stenhouse will have four flights
here before returning home.”
—Sydney “Sun /’
A boxer who will rise to great
heights,
•I* 4* 4*
“A champagne lounge was opened
in the addling paddo9k at Chelten-
ham, S.A.” —Sporting paper.
A most appropriate setting for
if
“Divorce every eight minutes in
Court’s high-speed justice.”
—Sydney Sun.
Fast and loose.
Negligent. *
“A ‘dressing-gown wife’ always
reaches the stage where she is in no
hurry to get dressed.”
— Woman’s paper.
Of a morn never trim,
She will sweep, dust and cook
And have lunch in her him —
She prefers the old look !
P. O. M. C.
•i* 4*
“A newspaper pegged on the line
makes a nice flapping nois.e.”
— Woman’s paper.
Especially if it’s a copy of the
flapper-press.
“Can I keep my hat on, sir?”
“Fortunately we had a spell of
sunny weather, so the washing dned,
although I could not ring it out.
. —“New Idea.
She wasn’t engaged for that
anyway.
* *
“Complexions will benefit if you
keep your beauty creams and lotions
in the ice-box.”— Woman’s paper.
Provided you have the cheek
to do without them.
v V
“Pierre Blanchar, who plays the
port of the clergyman, is one of the
most outstanding actors in France
today.” —Suburban paper.
Let no one harbor any illusion
about that.
•F 4*
“Glass-top coffee table, blonde, £6.”
—Suburban paper.
A little dear, eh?
Rein Dears.
“Ability of women to drive was
first doubted by the Spartans about
844 B.C." — Sydney' “Sunday Sun.”
When woman first, dressed up to
kill,
Past Spartan temples went
careering
It’s safe to bet that men were
jeering
About her lack of driving skill.
And doubtless many old re-
mains
Of Doric columns that are
scattered
O’er hill and plain were one day
shattered
When women drivers held the
reins.
So too in modern times we see
When ladies take to motor-
driving.
Vie panic-stric,ken public striving
To dodge some painful injury.
And yet in justice we should
shrink
From any undeserved belittling.
For though the sex is skilled in
skittling
How well it drives some men to
drink /
D. H. E.
Experiment.
“A novelist claims tfcU the best
cure for hysterics is a kiss.”
He gazed at her luscious
profile throy/n into effigy by the
pale moon. Somehow she
seemed cold, distant, unyielding.
II only she’would get hysterics!
Was she the type? She seemed
pretty placid. There was only
one way to find out. He would
try.
He ducked away, got a bucket
of cold water and poured it over
her. She merely smiled at him
moi&tly, moving only her rose-
bud mouth. v
He tried again. “Let’s ge* out
of here!” he suddenly bellowed
in her ear. “The place is on
fire!” , ,
She just patted his head gently.
Jle stood on his head, grimac-
ing horribly, uttering weird yells,
and waving an open cut-throat
razor.
She observed with mild amuse-
ment.
He tore his hair, threw himself
upon the ground, and burst into
a frenzy of hysterical laughter.
He came to.
“Now, that’s better,” she
crooned, caressing him again
gently on the brow.
JONAS DILL.
Artist and Mug.
“In the past the ordinary man,
even if *he did not like art, could
understand it. Now he even
understand it”—“Sunday Sun.
Intent on leading to my sons
Same memory apart from puns
l~ hied me to a studio —
The favored modern kind you
knpw —
And asked the master of the
pla,ce
To paint in oils my rugged face.
But when the job. was done at
last
I took one look and stood aghast,
For though the portrait may be
mine
I fear I am a Philistine
And cannot fail to wonder why
My ears and nose are all my eye.
BERT.
Glossary of Broadcasting
Terms.
Sponsor (from spon., abbrev.
of spondulicks, possession of
which is a sponsor’s ’only func-
tion, and sor, referring to con-
dition of his quicks when he has
bitten his fingernails down to
them after either having seen or,
if his strength couldn’t stand
up to that, heard the show he
has done his money on): A
sponsor assesses the Value of the
show he sponsors in terms of
(a) its estimated yawnpower;
\b) the approximate percentage
of listeners who cursefully re-
solve after hearing the show to
buy any product but that of the
sponsor; (c) sarcastic
letters about it come in by
droves, shojals or avalanches.
Radio Comedian: A gentle-
man who can be recognised in-
stantly by his expression,- which
reflects a combination of grati-
tude that he has been spared the
ordeal*of the*stage comedian in
having to memorise his lines, of
idle wonder at who really first
coined the gags he is putting
over,*and thankfulness that tech-
nical difficulties have so far made
it impossible for the listener-in
to give him* the “bird.” Patron-
saint of all radio comedians is
Harry Lauder, inventor of the
hearty - laugh - at-your-own-joke
idea. Instead of a bent stick
radio comedians use a straight
script. *
Radio Comediennes : There
are no radio comediennes,'
Over the Ether: This
refers to radio waves, which so
often turn out to be “dumpers.”
Not to be confused with “under
the ether,” which so many
agonised’listeners fervently wish
were the condition (with a little
chloroform added just to make
certain) of the performer they’ve
tuned-in to.
News-Commentators : The
most wordy and boring mem-
bers of the station’s staff. Have
a pronunciation of local and
foreign* - geographical names all
their own, and very easily forget
their previous predictions when
events prove them wrong—
events invariably doing this. The
greatest qualification anyone
can have who wants to give
'comments on the news over the
National stations is either to
hold rabidly Zionist and anti-
British view? or to have been
snowbound for a week in some
Balkan country and thus be
accepted instantaneously as a
world authority on international
affairs.
Static : The correct technique
for the listener when, on 'tun-
ing-in at random, h e finds com-
ing from his set caterwaulings,
yawps, crackles, bangings,
shrieks, spits and a noise like a
couple of skeletons doing the
rhumba on a galvanised-iron
roof is patiently to wait and see
if it ceases. If it does and
a fruity voice breaks in with
“You have just been listening
to the Symphony Number Two
by the contemporary Soviet
composer Aram Khachaturian,”
you :will immediately kno\y that
the noise was not caused by the
imminence of a violent electrical
storm.
Serial: A fascinating form
of mental exercise specially de-
signed so that while the listener
is preoccupied*in trying to fill
in the gaps left through missing
the episode the day before the
current episode is finished and
he dr she is still wondering what
it’s all about.
Disc Jockey: The world’s
most consistent rider of losers.
Lives in a world peopled almost
exclusively by lugubrious yaw-
pers like M Jolson, Perry Como
and Dick Haymes. Can be
recognised instantly by the
manner in which his eyes roll
around in their sockets, due to
his having nothing else to do
than following the disc as it goes
round and round on the turn-
table. *
Poor Reception : Refers only
to what is accorded the invita-
tion which comes from the radio
in the pre-breakfast session to
get out of bed and risk ricking
your muscles by heaving your-
self strenuously around the bed-
room floor.
Close Down: TJie most
popular portion of any radio
station’s programme.
Bo.
Nolle Prosequi.
“A Judge has criticised the use o£
so much Latin phraseology by the
medical and legal professions, con-
tending that it is often a cloak for
ignorance and inefficiency.”
Amo, amas, amat they glibly
said
At school, and so in later years
was bred
A reputation for sagacity
Which salved their conscience
when they took our fee;
,But now they stand arraigned
for this offence.
Indictable as wilful false
pretence,
That, though most sapiens, homo
cannot cleanse
(Even per matrimonium sub-
sequens
’Twixt casebopk precedent and
common law )
From off his charge-sheet, and
some legal saw
In mitigation he will always cite,
Claiming as his inalienable' right
That in the terms of Statute
forty-three
Pro bono publico shall be his
plea.
JEAN STANGER.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first Is paid
4jd. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Immigrants
As an immigrant of no particular class,
married, with three young children, and
fully employed at £8 ss. a week, I’ve no
time for complaints such as those from
“Had It” (B. 29/12/’4B).
I doubt that the only accommodation
he can get is a flat at £4 a week. It would
seem that his search must have been
something less than desperate. If he wants
the kind of accommodation which he
thinks must go with his white collar, then
he must be prepared to pay for it. He
should also consider, the difficulties he
would have in getting a home together in
post-war England if he were starting there
as he started here.
For at least three years Australia House
has been hammering away at would-be
immigrants, warning them not to come
unless they have accommodation ar-
ranged. If people like “Had It” care to
jump the queue they must take the con-
sequences.
It is just 13 months since we sailed up
the Brisbane River and we are now hap-
pily settled—l had managed to get one
of the fellows whom I met on active ser-
vice to nominate me. We first lived in an
f.a.q. flat with very few conveniences
and high rent.
I got my first job as a temporary post-
man two days after I landed. I learned
a lot and made many friends while that
job lasted. Since it folded up I’ve had
three other jobs, each better than the last.
I believe I’m settled in the latest one, and,
although the wages are not phenomenal,
they’re good enough to keep us going.
While I had my third job we moved
from the flat to a holiday house—at £2 a
week in the off season—which gave us a
little better accommodation. When we
arrived we searched around and bought
a 16-perch allotment and began looking
for a builder. It was a long search, but
I found one, and we’ve just moved into
our own place.
To consolidate the country’s grip on us
we welcomed a young Aussie into the
family just a year and six days after we
landed.
I*ll admit we’ve been lucky,
but to a great extent our luck
was manufactured by ourselves.
Whatever we have is ours be-
cause we went after it. We took
all the advice we could get and
in many cases acted upon it.
We’ve found Australians kind
and friendly, and we’ve never
once felt like strangers or been
homesick. We’ll always be
grateful for the kindness we’ve
experienced in the last year, and
we’ll never be guilty of uttering
such tommyrot as “poverty in a
land of plenty.” Not on £lO
a week, anyway.—R. H. (Q.).
Rabaul
It is now almost seven years
since the Japanese took Rabaul,
but there has never been an official report
on the tragedy issued from any respon-
sible quarter.
The ill-fated garrison of Rabaul con-
sisted of the 2/22 Btn. A.I.F. and a hand-
ful of militia troops, all inadequately
trained and ill-equipped for the de-
fence of the position. The Australian
Government had ample warning of the
impending disaster, and transport was
available to remove all civilians and the
garrison to safety before the arrival of the
Japs, but they were left to perish against
odds of probably 20 to 1, and against a
weight of armament that will never be
calculated. Rifles don’t often wjn battles
against naval guns and heavy bombers.
The defence of Rabaul, which lasted
only a few hours, was of no military
value, and it is high time the Australian
Government released all the facts and the
reason for not withdrawing the defending
force.
Complete details of casualties have
never been given, but probably 1200 of
the defenders, out of a total of about
1400, were sacrificed. Some were killed
in action, some murdered by their captors,
some escaped to die of fever in the jungle,
and every one of the prisoners captured
—with,the exception of the few officers—
was lost at sea on the Montevideo Maru
in July, 1942.
Hundreds who lost brothers, sons
and husbands in this tragic blunder are
surely entitled to know whether or not
the disaster could have been avoided. —
Ex-yk (Vic.). ■' ‘
Politics
Brisbane’s sanitary-and-garbage trouble
has pointed a couple of lessons well
worth noting.
The trouble began with a City Council
decision to replace the old horse-drawn
lorry-service by a fleet of faster modern
motorised vehicles. This led to a new con-
tractor getting the job, and at the turn of
the year he took over. Several factors had
not been fully allowed for. One was that
many of the old horse-drivers were use-
less on trucks and automatically drifted
out of the game; another was that the
Christmas holidays involved, anyway,
some banking-up of refuse. A third was
that the changeover opened the door to
claims for higher wages by the men who
joined the new contractor. And a fourth
was the condition of the labor-market,
with almost nobody seriously looking for
a job.
Nobody took the situation very seri-
A few days’ delay in cleaning-up
doesn’t worry the average Australian
householder ; he is still near enough to his
pioneering fathers not to mind a bit of
backyard digging. But, as in some
suburbs a week moved into a fortnight
and beyond, the health authorities became
worried about epidemic prospects in Bris-
bane’s ■ high summer—especially with
dangers of gastro-enteritis (a nasty baby-
killer the previous year) and dysentery,
not to mention typhoid, just around the
corner.
The position on January 3 was that the
contractor was still some 60 men short,
while some of the men he had working
were inexperienced. There was no strike
as such —the non-arrivals had simply
drifted to other occupations, and the labor
market couldn’t supply enough replace-
ments. Ironically enough, one of the
causes of the men’s indifference was that
they had received so many presents from
householders at Christmas that they were
temporarily fortified against a trifle of
unemployment. As the week went on
and these funds ran out, more drifted
back to work.
By January 5 the City Council, the
State Government and the Trades Hall
were all beginning to take serious notice ;
the City Council because it had the re-
sponsibility of seeing the cleaning services
carried on; the Government because its
wider powers might have to be used ; the
Trades Hall because the claim for in-
creased wages was beginning to j have the
tinge of an industrial issue, while the
Comrades up at the Hall were belatedly
waking up to the chances of causing
mischief.
Then Brisbane’s Lord Mayor, Chandler,
rightly up to a point directing public
attention to the growing danger and
certainly throwing himself energetically
into trying to do something about it, went
too far in ascribing the trouble to Com-
munist plotting. There had been no Com.
plotting up to that point, but the L.M.’s
attitude gave the Comrades the chance
they wanted to pose the whole issue as
another “attack on the working-class,”
and from that stage the show moved to
a new level. ,
Working on the lines of “If they want
to tajck.it on to us they’ll get something
to tack it on to,” the Comrades by Jan.
6 had influenced the Queensland
Trades and Labor Council to declare the
sanitary and garbage services “black,”
had called upon the Road Transport
Workers’ Union to picket the depots, and
had thrown all the characteristic
machinery of Com.-fomented trouble into
gear. Thus, by January 7 the situation
had become much further complicated,
with many of the contractor’s normal
drivers refusing to turn up for duty,
apparently intimidated by the “black”
ban, even though their own union had
refused to abet the Corns. There were
no union picket?—the union had declared
itself not bound by the Labor Council’s
direction—but Com. objectives to cause
as much trouble as possible were being
realised.
The two lessons derived from the
bother are, first, that even when they have
not planned an industrial coup and in-
deed have been caught napping, the
Comrades are still vigilant enough to
capitalise anything that arises—a lesson
in preventative industrial medicine worth
learning everywhere in this country ; and,
second, that responsible authorities should
avoid throwing the Comrades into the
limelight when in fact a situation has its
roots much nearer the surface. —-Dee (Q.).
For the Defence
Present popular pastime seems to be
that of picking .on N.S.W.’s railway
system and service as being wasteful, in-
efficient and so on. Well, a colleague met
me at Wynyard, after which he found
that his brief-case, replete with confiden-
tial documents, cheque-book and im-
portant correspondence, had been in-
advertently left in the train. A cloak-
room officer got busy on the telephone.
The case had been missed by 2.15 p.m.,
and at 3 p.m. the same day the Parramatta •
stationmaster telephoned the home of my
colleague to say that he had found the
case in the train at that terminal, looked
at the literature therein to determine the
likely owner,, and promptly telephoned
the residence. . Not only that: the oblig-
ing official said that there was no need
for a journey to that station to reclaim
the property; he would send it to Lind-
field station to make things easier. After
that I won’t hear a word against our
much-maligned railways and those who
make them tick. —D. B. K. (N.S.W.),
Equal Pay
Adult male workers are not paid by
results (B. 5/1/’49), but according to a
fixed standard, sufficient to support a
man, a wife and two children in
a stated degree of comfort.
If the male is a bachelor he is
really obtaining a considerable
sum of money on a false basis.
A spinster on the same wage
would collect sufficient to sup-
port herself, a husband and a
family. If they married and re-
mained fully employed, they
would jointly receive wages
adequate to support two
husbands, two wives and four
children.
Equal pay has been tried. The
inevitable result was a ruinous
rise in costs and prices. In
effect, the value of the male
wage was reduced to equal that
of the female. Both were com-
pelled to continue working
equally hard to sustain them-
selves, while the children, if any, were
cared for in communal creches.
If women were called upon to under-
take equally strenuous tasks in times of
peace, with equal military duties and
risks in time of .war, they would discover
that there is a vast difference between
being fickle, coy and hard to please at
the home front while equipping or enter-
taining the troops; and going over the
top with the boys.
Granting all the domestic and indus-
trial virtues of the fair sex, with their
value as ministering angels, they cannot
reasonably be classified and subsidised as
“dependants” while receiving a wage
sufficient to maintain a complete family
circle.—B.T. (S.A.).
Taxation on Art Prizes
Isn’t the reason for Chifley’s obduracy
in maintaining this taxation mainly that
writers and artists aren’t numerous
enough to muster a great number of
votes? If so, there’s one way out —bail
up enough votes from interested parties.
Maoriland had one instance not long
ago of the power of a united voice as
against that of small organisations or
straggling individuals. The famous Wai-
poua kauri forest, a masterpiece pro-
duced by nature after centuries of growth,
and a noted M.L. tourist spot, was
threatened by the State’s cutting-down of
certain trees. Argument was furious, but
the State, overriding all protests as it
usually does when its bureaucratic omni-
potence gets going; proceeded to carry out
its intentions, which hundreds of Maori,
landers felt would ruin the forest. Finally,
when a petition for the preservation of
the forest was set in train, offered at street
corners, in offices, clubs, etc., the result
was that the combined voice of thou-
sands of people made itself heard to effect.
Surely there are enough live spirits in
Australian writing to get a petition going.
Art is important to all countries, par-
ticularly young ones such as Australia
and M.L., for the artists and writers,
fumble and stumble as they may through
all sorts of peculiar theories, are the
visionaries of the race and the realists.
They alone can show the ordinary man
the place he’s heading for and warn him
of the darkness he’s probably tunnelling
into in his blind preoccupation with the
earning of a living.
Thousands of men and women in the
street, apart from interested organisations,
friends of writers and artists themselves
and so on, would grasp the need for a
petition and would sign gladly if given
the chance. Unless something of the sort
is done it seems obvious the present out-
rageous situation will continue.— Una
Auld (N.S.W.).
Price-control
S.A. Premier Playford got in ahead of all
other States in making his first report on
controls since taking over from the Com-
monwealth Government last year.
Strength of the State prices branch has
been reduced by about half and yet it
coped with nearly the same amount of
work. Since taking over the branch had
received 4823 applications for price-fixing
and had completed 4549 of them. Ten
prices orders had been gazetted while
orders issued in writing numbered 4559.
Prosecutions for alleged overcharging
are pending against at least 11 butchers
in the State and against one delicatessen
proprietor for allegedly asking too much
for bread. Separate checks in country
areas have been made by prices inspectors
since September,
A word of warning was issued by the
S.A. Premier to industries whose pro-
ducts would be decontrolled from time
to time. He said any sign of increasing
charges out of proportion would bring
immediate action by the department once
again controlling prices. Decontrol did
not mean the Government was no longer
interested in what charges were made.
—F. B. S. (S.A.).
The Pedestrian’s Part
In taking measures to reduce the alarm-
ing number of road accidents, the pedes-
trian should not be overlooked. Care-
lessness and indifference to traffic laws by
pedestrians, particularly Sydneysiders,
need the unremitting attention of the
police. A large proportion of road acci-
dents can be blamed on to the pedestrian,
directly and indirectly, though he fre-
quently escapes himself.
Jay-walking, crossing intersections
against the traffic, boarding trams from
the wrong side —all interfere with the
motorist’s right-of-way, and even if no
direct accidents result the motorist tends
to become jumpy and agitated and
generally not in a fit state to give his full
concentration to driving.
Pedestrians must be educated and
made traffic-conscious by supervision and
advertising. This means more than an
occasional anti-jay-walking campaign. It
means publicity in the press, on the air
and on the screen. Unless pedestrian
ways are improved there can be no hope
of a suitable decrease in the yearly toll
of the road. — Mac (N.S.W.).
Should We Segregate ’Em?
Listening-in to Parliament and reading
the papers, I am satisfied that Australia
is now divided into two camps: socialist
and anti-socialist, compared with which
oil and water are compatibles.
When we were young and quarreling
Mother used to say, “Surely the garden is
big enough for all of you,” and suggest
that we occupy different portions.
Australia is big enough for this
suggestion. Run a vermin- or dingo-
proof fence right across the continent and
let the two sides toss to see which will
occupy which. They can have their own
opinions as to the suitability of the word
“vermin.”
After a lapse of five years an
umpire could have a look and see what
had happened. My bet is that on the
socialist side he would find a repetition
of the famous Patagonian experiment of
the ’nineties and on the ; private-enterprise
side all would be flourishing, largely due
to the segregation of the Red element, as
a result of which non-Reds would have
been enabled to get on with the job un-
disturbed. I dare say the umpire would
find a few holes in the fence where those
who had had enough of the socialist
experiment had burrowed through to
peace and security.— Ceg (Vic.).


Rabbits!
The reluctance of State and Common-
wealth Governments to protect our
primary produce from the rabbit plague
is difficult to understand, but it is in itself
one more argument for the formation of
new States.
If rabbit-extermination does not begin
soon the rabbit industry will become so
strong that it will require “protection.”
In three months, July, August and Sep-
tember, last year it earned £1,627,002
in American dollars. At the same time
the Federal Government forbids the im-
portation of wire-netting and rabbit
poisons from dollar countries.
Wool is one of our best export lines,
and prices for other primary produce
are now higher than ever, but we are
losing a great deal of money because no
attempt is being made to deal with rabbits
as a national problem.
At Urana recently a stock-inspector
said rabbits are eating pastures which
would support eleven and a half million
sheep. At Albury the district agrono-
mist says that until wire-netting is avail-
able the war against rabbits is hopeless.
Soldier-settlers and farmers at Wanta-
badgery, 50 of them, say their farms are
infested, and they have requested the
N.S.W. Minister for Agriculture to come
down and discuss the question.
Rabbits are breeding in forest lands, on
roads controlled by shire councils, on
stock-routes and reserves controlled by
Pastures Protection Boards, and the con-
scientious landholder who works con-
stantly to keep his- property clean soon
finds it reinfested if he lets up. Other
farmers who have given up the battle
add to the trouble. Many landholders
are unable to obtain labor, others are
aged or ill, but these excuses avail little
when they are prosecuted, and heavy fines
are inflicted on offenders.
If we believe our metropolitan
observers, the rabbit plague is “due to
the drop in the price of rabbitskins,”
according to one ; while another “spokes-
man” says the “decrease in the number
of men wearing hats” is a factor.
However, rabbit-inspectors in the
country say rabbits breed freely, and the
only way they can be controlled is by
containing them with wire-netting, and
then destroying them. Poison and gas
are not enough, and these men say bur-
rows and warrens must be dug out for
a complete kill.
The city week-end rabbit-shooter has
no idea of the growth of the rabbit plague
in the Riverina. Recently a holidaymaker
said to me: “In a space where a
small mob of 50 sheep was sheltering
there were at least 200 rabbits, and some
of them were such lovely black, white
and piebald bunnies, too. On my appear-
ance they moved slowly into the long
grass.” Any landowner knows what the
appearance of black and white rabbits
means —infestation.
Local-government men are doing their
best. On January 6 shire-council
and/or Pastures Protection Board repre-
sentatives from Deniliquin, Jerilderie,
Conargo, Berrigan, Urana and other sur-
rounding districts met at Berrigan and,
resolved to hold a one-month rabbit ex-
termination drive during February. But
it is pathetic to notice that one of the
resolutions passed by the meeting requests
the Minister for Agriculture to ensure that
chemists and storekeepers in the district
have enough strychnine and S.A.P. in
hand to meet requirements.
If the Government’s dead hand cannot
lift the controls on wire-netting and
poisons, is it not time that the Wool
Board and the odd dozen farmers’ organ-
isations got together to state a case for
the graziers, wheatgrowers, dairyfarmers
and other primary producers, on whom
all Australians are dependent for a living?
—Riverina Rita (N.S.W.).
Even in Tasmania
Those “appalling symptoms of the
decline of public and political morality”
mentioned (B. 8/12/’4B) have shown
themselves even in Tasmania, once de-
scribed by Collier the historian as “a
pattern society.”
Pillaging from ships and wharves is
now endemic, and the loss sustained by
this small population is staggering; yet
neither the Cosgrove Government nor
Canberra, nor the unions, has lifted a
finger in defence of the people each is
supposed to represent. Public and poli-
tical morality is largely at the mercy of
unionism—which has never been known
to show mercy in its campaign of re-
action. and exploitation. Enforced
unionism in' the P.O. has played havoc
with standards of conduct and service
and all feeling of responsibility in this
State. There have been scandals over
petrol-ration tickets, as well as bitter com-
plaints by country residents of being un-
able to get through on the telephone dur-
ing night hours. And country people do
not use the telephone for frivolous pur-
poses. Investigation has shown that some
youthful operators in country-town con-
tinuous exchanges disconnect their in-
struments in order to sleep comfortably
through the night.
The latest scandal' was caused by a
young postal employee throwing away
letters intended for delivery on his round
—to save himself the trouble of deliver-
ing them ; 800 letters have been recovered,
but how many more have been lost is
unknown. For this the paltry fine of
£5 was imposed (less than a week’s pay),
“You scoundrel , Meadows; youre
spilling my whisky!”
and so low has public morality sunk
that no public outcry has followed any
Q £ th ese things, though the Attorney-
General has said that the matter of the
false statutory declaration may be “in-
vestigated.”—E. & O.E. (Tas.).
___ _ __
What Stops Nurses
. . , ,
There b f f shorta f of nurs f> bat
th f e 18 no shortage of girls
would be only too pkased to enter
tbe nursing profession. Discipline and
the many disagreeable duties pertaining
to the profession are not the obstacles to
be overcome, as practically every would-
-1,6 nurse understands this is a part, and
“ important part, of the training.
The principal obstacle for a great many
girls is the entrance exam. Admittedly,
there has to be some test of intelligence,
but I fail to see why this cannot be left
f Q the matron and sisters to define, for
after all tbey are the ones wbo have t 0
t ra j n tbe nurses. Recently at a large
town eight girls sat for the Nurses En-
trance exam, and not one of them passed,
All passed in English and other subjects
with the exception of arithmetic, which
beat them all. Why arithmetic should be
so necessary is hard to understand. I
have been nursing for the past three
years and have yet to meet the matron
or sister who would waste time trying to
train girls who were not above average
intelligence. I honestly believe the nurs-
ing shortage would be overcome if the
matron was the deciding judge and the
entrance exam, modified or abolished.
May I add that the marriage rate for
nurses is very high, no fewer than 36
sisters and nurses being married from
this hospital during my term here. —
Trainee (N.S.W.).
Droughts and Railways
Central Queensland, lately in the throes
of drought, with stock losses severe,
cries out for a rail-link from Blackall
to Charleville, about 150 miles. Motor
transport was being used to bring
stock, mainly sheep, in from drought
areas to good grazing in the south-east,
but this has been a costly business. ; In
the past 50 years, I dare say, 50 million
sheep and thousands of other stock have
perished in droughts largely for the want
of this rail-link.
The route was surveyed during the
recent war for military purposes, but
when the war ended no further
action was taken. Various Queens-
land Governments have
said the line wouldn’t pay
because of the sparsity of
settlement in the area con-
cerned, but there are two
replies to that. One is that
strategic stock-lines do pay
when millions of sheep are
saved, and the other is that
closer settlement, especi-
ally for returned soldiers,
would probably follow the
railway. Quilpie, for over
70 years a cattle-paddock
of North Comonogin and
now a thriving town at the
cattle - country railhead,
shows the value of rail-
ways in the right places.
Jim N. (Q.).
Smaller Slates
“Dee’s” reference to
“the arrogant Sydney
assumption that nought
matters besides its com-
mercial supremacy” (B.
15/12/’4B) is, unfortun-
ately, true. The remedy
would seem to lie in the U.S. system
under which the States are all
very much smaller and the influence of
large cities is proportionately diminished.
New York State, the capital of
which is not New York but Albany, has
an area of only 50,000 square miles. The
smallest two States, Rhode Island and
Delaware, are only 1300 and 2400 square
miles respectively. N.S.W- has an area of
310,000 square miles.
A State the size of New York, based
on Sydney, would consist of an area
containing only the Central Tablelands,
the coalfields and the Sydney district
itself. If the American precedent were
followed the capital would not be Sydney,
but probably Lithgow or Wollongong.
If the State were to be made the size
of Rhode Island it would consist of
not much more than the present County
of Cumberland, which is really only
Greater Sydney.
One of several new-State schemes- em-
bodied the principle of a separate State
for the Sydney area. But perhaps the
best idea would be to get a new State
in northern N.S.W. first, and think about
Sydney afterwards. — Karuah (N.S.W.).
Prefabrication
I’ve never seen a Dampney pre-cast
concrete slab house (B. 15/12 / ”48), but
there should be no question as to dura-
bility and efficiency, provided it is well
constructed of good materials mixed in
correct proportions.
The greatest obstacle that prefabricated
concrete houses have to overcome is
prejudice. ,
In building single units of greatly
diversified design prefabricated concrete
would be dearer than either brick or
timber because of the cost of forms and
molds which might not be used again. It
would, however, be a different story
where a group of 50 or 100 houses, in-
volving, say, six different designs, was
erected, and the forms and molds used
repeatedly.
Those homes would be cheaper and
more durable, and would cost less to
maintain, than any brick, stone or timber-
framed house.
In view of the poor progress made with
the N.S.W. Government Housing Scheme
—mainly because of labor and materials
shortages —it is hard to understand why
houses of prefabricated concrete have not
been given a fair trial.
I’ve been 50 years in the building trade
and I’ve yet to meet the expert who can
give me one good reason Why prefabri-
cated concrete dwellings should not be
built by our Housing officials. Nearly 60
years ago a man of ideas caused a stir
in Sydney building circles by erecting, in
concrete, a terrace of two-storied houses
in Oxford-street adjoining the Waverley
tram depot. In the eyes of the “experts”
he was a “clever Alec,” “jerry-builder,”
etc.
The knowing ones gave the terrace a
life of two years, but, unless recently
demolished, it is still habitable and must
have repaid its owner handsomely.—
Pongo (N.S.W.).
Root of the Matter
What a terrible time Canberra is go-
ing to have! Mr. Chifley’s latest dictum
is to the effect that the 10-year expan-
sion programme for .Canberra involves
the transfer of 7000 public servants to
the A.C.T. during that time. Because of
present labor and material shortages,
there would be no rapid expansion for
about three years, but after that the ex-
pansion would go on in three stages. In
the next three years there would be only
growth in Canberra departments, which
would bring 882 officers to Canberra. In-
cidentally, the third stage will bring 3670
persons to Canberra, “who would all be
in departments related to defence”....
(So we’ll at least have an army of clerks
in 10 years’ time).— Glen Iris (Vic.).
The Country party is serving Australia
badly in its negative attitude to amalga-
mation, which, if persisted in, will result
in the return of Chifley and party, who
not only are soft-pedalling on Commun-
ism, but apparently do not realise the
threat of some 1200 millions of colored
people on our doorstep. Last time we
were saved by America, but on a future
occasion she may be occupied elsewhere.
—A.V.M. (Q.).
I took on checking the electoral rolls
at the rate of £1 10s. per 100 alterations
made to the cards. By going flat out I
managed to earn the magnificent sum of
£1 per day. This is not laborer’s wages,
so at the end of a week I threw it in.
I could earn £1 a day only in closely-
populated areas. Once I started on the
scattered houses I would have been lucky
to make 10s. a day. In some areas, and
particularly in the country, even £3 per
100 alterations would not be worth
while, as no payment is made for the
calls which produce no alterations.
In one street I canvassed nearly 100
houses and secured only 15 alterations —
and was forced to call on some of the
houses four times before finding anyone
at home. —Recco (N.S.W.).
According to estimates available, there
are twice as many people (12 to 20 mil-
lion) in concentration camps in Russia
as there are members of the Communist
party (six to 10 million). — Emerald
(N.S.W.).
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 1
(CRYPTIC TYPE)
. saik^hackwards in the
] ittJe ]a k es (5)
4— She helps a Scottish man with
one lock to put a chemical in
the substance ungathered by roll-
ing-stones. (9)
B—The cad’s mother in Holland? (9)
9—Harbors the fellows. (5)
10—Leg-strap for a hawk with one
excavation’s flowers of the kind
that make the emblem of South
Carolina. (10)
tadk°th? counteST' (4)
17— These shelter us among cultiva-
tors. (6)
Sckwardly answers this-
wbo ; s a former N.S.W. Premier
now in the Federal Parliament?
(Q , ... . .
21—Pole becomes a leading Australian
conductor by mail. (4)
23—Require Miss Penny before her
marriage? (4)
25^ r 4) tling hold ln bob cartons '
27— That woman will be likely to go
off pop when fired. (5)
28 — Crippling weight of cake. (9)
29 -f3 difigurements” 8 (9) “
jq—Eliminate the turning for example
in the row of hills. (5)
(Solution in next issue.)
Down.
1 — The kind of wine Johnnie’s drink-
ing—Sydney’s on it, too. (4, 7)
2 Witless associate of the Saxon
invader is over 90 degrees. (6, 5)
3 American river has turned up
about the layer and an egg. (10)
4 Song of the cuckoo port of the
Baltic is over 50. (8)
5 The figure is more insensitive to
the touch. (6)
6 Credit a small enemy of cattle. (4)
7 Noted American violinist is be-
hind the grave. (5)
12— Swore that the beast perpetually
swallowed pennies. (11)
13 — Diana’s headgear leads to that
French fracas. (11)
14 — Clementine’s father was this —
but even Bradman never hit it.
(5, 5)
16 —Once around the course, my
friend is upset. (3)
19—Study to entice the scorn. (8)
22—Dog provides West Australia’s
fuel. (6)
24—French and that girl’s anaesthetic.
(5)
26—Charity of an English railway
system. (4)


Have YOU
sufficient
LIFE ASSURANCE?
No man should so overload himself with assur-
ance that the payment of premiums may become
an embarrassment during his lifetime.
On the other hand, no man —at least no man
with a dependent family—can afford to sit back
complacently with too little life assurance. In-
deed, the amount of life assur-
ance that you should have is of
utmost importance. It is YOUR
responsibility to see that the total
of your policies will be sufficient
to afford your family the protec-
tion that they will need, should
the emergency arise.
Now is the time to make pro-
vision for the future. Not neces-
sarily protection against the pos-
sibility of death only, but pro-
CITY MUTUAL ESTABLISHES
ANOTHER RECORD
FOR NEW BUSINESS
New Business written by the City
Mutual Life Assurance Society
Limited was again a record in
1948, the sums assured total-
ling £5,921,134 compared with
£5,574,129 in 1947. The average
sum assured increased from £571 in
1947 to £628 in 1948.
vision for all manner of purposes; the home you
intend to build; education for your family; finan-
cial independence in your old age.
You can provide for these things with Life
Assurance . . . Whole of Life Assurance pay-
able at death, and Endowment Assurance pay-
able at a determined date or at previous deatK.
Examine your situation now, and decide how
much assurance of both forms you should
have.
A City Mutual Service
City Mutual will welcome the
opportunity of assisting you in
your assurance problems. Our
officers will explain the advan-
tages of both types; will tell you
what premiums are payable, and
show you what you gain with
City Mutual Policies. Remem-
ber, when you assure with City
Mutual you assure with an
old-established, wholly mutual
Society.
City Mutual Facts
• A purely Mutual, entirely Australian Society.
• Incorporated in New South Wales in 1878.
• Liberal Policy conditions.
ẃ
811 mi
Jn I ■ 1
II« 1
jm t£D HD HD 1111
an an an in ii ll
ununcffiDti n ll
mum on turn n
to-tom
I!
I pint
M !
®-%t! *•>»
ẅ
TASMANIA:
City Mutual Building,
26 Elizabeth Street,
Hobart.
«
QUEENSLAND:
City Mutual Building,
307 Queen Street,
Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
City Mutual Building,
113 King William St.,
Adelaide.
WEST. AUSTRALIA*
City Mutual Building,
62 St. George’s Ter’ce,
Perth.
