

GREAT WESTERN
A PRODUCT OF THE
Rio
CHAMPANCE
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” VoL 70—No. 3618
Wednesday, June 15, 1949
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
PAUL JONES LINKS KIRKCUDBRIGHT WITH THE U.S. NAVY
THE ancient town of Kirkcudbright (pronounced Kir-coo-bry)
is situated on the estuary of the River Dee in south-west Scot-
land —a beautiful land of hills and rivers, wooded glens and purple
feather, a land which was the birthplace of Christianity in the
fourth century and the home of monks and feudal lords in the
tenth century. The Royal Burgh of Kirkcudbright has memories
of the Romans, of Scottish kings, of family feuds and forays of
the privateer Paul Jones and of Robert Burns. Its charter dates
back to the year 1455, and apparently derived its name from the
“Kirk of Cuthbert,” its ancient church having been dedicated to
that saint.
A Franciscan monastery was founded at Kirkcudbright in the
>arly thirteenth century, and the friary church was used as the
parish church until two hundred years ago, but only a fragment of
this still stands. Kirkcudbright is said to have been agreed upon
as a landing-place for the Spanish Armada in 1588 by Philip II
and Lord Maxwell. . ....
An important link connects the Stewartry of Kirkcudbright
with the U.S.A., for it was in this rural county that John Paul
Jones, founder of the American Navy, was born. The cottage where
he lived is in the nearby Parish of Kirkbean and can still be seen.
The above picture shows the Old Tolbooth at Kirkcudbright
where Paul Jones was once held a prisoner on a charge of murder
and afterwards acquitted. In the background (right) is the Cochran
Memorial Gymnasium, which was a gift to the burgh by a
prominent American business man, the late Mr. Thomas Cochran,
to commemorate his family associations with the burgh.


fd
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining hoiv to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 149
AGE
The Red Page
SYDNEY OR THE BUSH.
It is a terrible thing for the author of
a book when the reader happens to have
special knowledge of its subject. The
hero of one of the short stories in Henri-
etta Drake-Brockman's Sydney or the
Bush (Angus and Robertson) happens to
climb to the summit of Mount Egmont
in New Zealand ■ and the preseAt re-
viewer, with a dreadful special knowledge
of which he would gladly divest himself,
is forced to the conclusion that Mrs.
Drake-Brockman’s acquaintance with
Egmont is, at best, slight.
The gentleman has lunch “in the
crater,” and then, apparently for hours,
climbs upward ; and this in fact he could
not do—Mrs. Drake-Brockman probably
means the crater of Fantham’s Peak.
Then, slipping on the snow on his way
down" again, the climber sees “straight
ahead” a strip of beach and an arc of
sea; and this, because he is descending
to the Mountain House on the landward
side of the peak, he could hardly do ;
and certainly he could not fall off the
mountain into thessea possibility the
paragraph seems to suggest—without
tobogganing for about 20 miles over the
gentle plains beyond the foothills. Nor,
really, could he fall over “the edge of
the mountain,” for there is no edge ; it
is a gradually sloping cone with, admit-
tedly, precipices.
These are minor points ; it is only the
fearful compulsion of special knowledge
that makes one mention them. But they
are not altogether without significance.
They indicate a certain amount of at least
geographical unreliability in these stories ;
they make one wonder whether Mrs.
Drake-Brockman is wholly to be relied
on when she describes pearling, fossick-
ing and the life of trappers and aborigines
in the desert; they suggest that not only
in minor details of geography but in the
much more important matters of style and
characterisation the stories may be just
a little slapdash, just a little unreliable.
As, in fact, they are. At one point
or another in practically every story there
is something that undermines the reader’s
confidence. It may be, as in “Kaditcha,”
that Mrs. Drake-Brockman is pretending
to be some shadowy illiterate narrator,
born out of the plebeian tradition in
Australian fiction, using phrases such as
“the look she handed Dingo was a bad
knock.” It may be, as in “Captain
Cutter’s Fairy,” that she is pretending to
be a man. It may be, as in “Fear,” that
she will write of the river-gums “smirk-
ing” at their reflections in a pool, so that
one wonders why on earth she uses such
a phrase and who on earth she is pre-
tending to be now.
And then, when she is content to be
herself, very often one finds that Mrs.
Drake-Brockman is a little more than
herself; buoyed-up, as it were, by some
emotion that is not strictly literary, not
purely the excitement of discovering and
unveiling a striking character, but a
national or political feeling. There is a
sociological intention behind the stories
about aborigines and half-castes ; there is
patriotic emotion behind the story about
the giant stoker in Woolloomooloo ; and
even in “Adventurers’ Luck,” an excel-
lent story about a man who stole a pearl,
there is an alarming moment when the
author, appearing in the first-person, says
“Fire ahead. I could do with a real
North-west yarn with meat on its bones,”
and one fears that one is to be told, in
a spirit of patriotic excitement, what
splendid and meaty fellows they are in
the North-west. It is not that one dis-
agrees with Mrs. Drake-Brockman’s
opinions, but that it shatters the illusion
of reality essential to a work of art if
the stands up in the middle of. it
and waves a flag.
Because of these and other failings—
the uncertain characterisation of the girl
in “Kaditcha,” the rather superficial
understanding of Captain Cutter’s peculiar
talisman, the unreal portrayal of the
artist in “Perspective”; the tendency
throughout to concentrate on plot rather
than character —the stories of Sydney or
the Bush are typically “magazine stories” :
a term which, if it means anything, means
a story which, purporting to give a true
picture of life, slips somewhere into
falsity.
It is easy, especially if one has the mis-
fortune to know, something about the
topography of Mount Egmont, to find
the lapses in Henrietta Drake-Brockman’s
writing ; but it would not be easy to write
so rich, so diverse, so far-ranging and
so colorful a collection of stories as
Sydney or the Bush.
Mrs. Drake-Brockman does, after all,
mention Mount Egmont; and probably
she has climbed it. She mentions the
desert, and probably she has seen it. She
mentions wheatfarms, and probably she
has inspected them. She mentions the
McElhone Stairs down from King’s Cross
to Woolloomooloo, and probably, like the
narrator of her story, she has counted
them. She has the energy and industry
to collect lively adventure stories in far-
away places or about far-away places,
and when she writes about pearling, if
you feel that an expert might be able to
correct her on minor points, you also
feel that, on the whole, the scene, the
atmosphere and the technique of the
trade have been remarkably well re-
created : —
“Well, let’s imagine Citrine squatting out
there in the bows of Denny, rocking about
on the swell of the Indian Ocean. Nothing
in sight but miles of blue sky and miles of
darker blue sea. He’d shove his long knife
into pearlshell after pearlshell, cut the ,
muscle, scrape off the fish as the shells fell
apart, heave it over the side, and toss the
shells in a pile. If there was a piece of
baroque, he’d stick it in a pickle bottle,
or lay a blistered shell on its own. In
Broome his bad luck had become a joke.”
One reads many stories which have
more subtle artistry than these and more
profoundly convincing characterisation ;
but one seldom comes across a collection
which makes more interesting reading.
And that is because, beneath her aberra-
tions, Mrs. Drake-Brockman holds firmly
to one of the fundamental principles of
the story-teller’s art —simply to tell a
good story. On may dislike as magazinish
the shallow sketch of the painter in “Per-
spective,” and dislike as propagandist the
mechanism that brings him to old
Findlay’s office to hear him talk about the
Great War in Flanders and Gallipoli, but
Findlay’s story of how he had to sacri-
fice his brother’s life remains a fine and
moving piece of drama. One may dislike,
as both propagandist and cannibalistic,
the phrase about “a real North-west yam
with meat on its bones,” but one must
agree that, in narrative interest if not in
other qualities, both “Adventurers’ Luck”
and the book as a whole are an improve-
ment on “the sort of health-food, sana-
torium - mealy, highbrow - compounded
patties writers palm off these days.”
It is by forgetting this principle of
narrative interest that finer artists than
Mrs. Drake-Brockman become tedious;
it is by remembering it, and combining
with it an absolute fidelity, that such
masters as Maupassant and Conrad make
the magazine story and the short story
proper one thing: an interesting narra-
tion and a work of art. It is because she ,
remembers to tell a good story, but ,
forgets to make it convincing in every <
detail, that Mrs. Drake-Brockman is
always readable and always in some <
danger of falling over the edge of the ;
mountain. i
Columbus, If Any.
Columbus, possibly because Europe is
now discovering America, has beeh in the
boom lately. Louis MacNeice wrote a
verse-play about him; William Hart-
Smith wrote a brilliant narrative poem
about his voyages; and now Salvador de
Madariaga, serene after his regrettable
onslaught on the reputation of Ophelia,
has published—or republished—a history.
The golden rule of the bom historian,
the really gifted liar, is: Never intrude
a doubt. Faced by contradictions, he
ruthlessly chooses one set of facts and
suppresses the other, relying on Rule
Number Thirteen of the Historians’
Union, “History repeats itself ; historians
repeat one another.” Salvador de
Madariaga, as will be seen in his
Christopher Columbus (Hollis and Carter),
is not a member of the union.
For the unionist historian, Columbus
is a Genoese, a Portuguese or a
Spaniard. For Senor de Madariaga,
Columbus is an algebraic equation. To
begin with, his name is not Columbus,
but Colon, this being the name he chose
himself, to signify his work as coloniser.
Senor de Madariaga allows that
Christofero Colombo was bora in Genoa
in 1451 to Domenico Colombo, a weaver,
at that time keeper of the Tower of
Sant’ Andrea, and later a publican of
Savona. But Christofero Colombo is
washed ashore at Portugal after a sea
battle in which he has been fighting
against the Genoese. And, though born
Italian, and speaking and reading Italian,
he has never been known to write Italian.
Moreover, when he makes a mistake in
Latin, it is a mistake traceable to Spanish
idiom; and he wrote and spoke Spanish
before he came to Spain.
Therefore, says Senor de Madariaga,
Columbus was a Jew:
The Colombo family were Spanish Jews
settled in Genoa, who, following the tradi-
tions of their race, bad remained faithful
to the language of their country of origin.
.... The Colombo family would then be
Catalan Jews. Colum was and is a frequent
name in all Catalan-speaking Spain, includ-
ing Majorca.
This second edition , of the book, first
published in 1939, contains an appendix
of answers to criticism such as that of
Professor Samuel Eliot Moirison„ also
author of a Life of Columbus:
More recently, Salvador de Madariaga,
by fashioning a significant pattern of
hypothesis and innuendoes unsupported by
anything so vulgar as fact, presented
Columbus as the descendant of refugee con-
verted Jews.
Senor de Madariaga gracefully agrees
that “Professor Morison has written a
most interesting Life from the yachts-
man’s point of view” ; but, he says:
Unless and until Professor Morison
brings forth a better solution than mine to
the gap between the “Genoese” and the
“Spanish” set of data we possess on Coldn,
he has no voice in the debate.
So the Australian reviewer who doesn’t
want to be called a yachtsman had better
leaVe it at that, with the one proviso, that
Senor de Madariaga shall lay off Captain
Cook, not long ago nibbled-at by Nazis.
Although this Life of Columbus pro-
ceeds like a conversation in a coffee-shop
with a man who is every minute or so
breaking-off to greet friends, or button-
hole business rivals and tell them in no
uncertain terms what he thinks of them,
or answer an urgent-phone-call from his
office, it does slowly build up a picture
of Columbus from a quotation here, a
deduction there and a bold reconciliation
or explanation somewhere else; a tall,
red-haired ghost, with a prominent nose
possibly much noticed by contemporaries,
although there is little in writing to prove
it; a converse< or Jewish convert to
Roman Catholicism, withdrawn and
watchful because converses were con-
stantly under suspicion of retaining their
old faith—Columbus sailed to discover
America on the day after all unconverted
Jews had been banished from Spain;
most withdrawn because he is a dreamer,
a man of one idea; marrying into a
Portuguese aristocratic seafaring family
to advance his plans for exploration;
self-educated, with the ability of the half-
learned to rush in where angels fear to
tread; ruthlessly stealing the map and
calculations which the Italian astrologer
Toscanelli had made for the King of
Portugal; a little at a loss with men when
their importunities broke in on his dream-
world—it was the blunt courage of
Pinzon, his financial backer and second-
in-command, which broke the rising
mutiny on the first voyage; unscrupulous
in success, taking for himself the 10,000
marevedis which should have gone, by
right or of grace, to Roderigo de Triana
(Juan Roderiguez Bermejo), who saw the
Bahamas two hours after midnight,
October 12, 1492 ; a farseeing organiser
and a wretched administrator, a man who
could find but not keep; a brilliant and
circumspect negotiator in poverty, over-
bearing and insupportable in power. He
seems to have thought of the New World
as a company-promoter thinks of a gold-
mine to which he has secured all the
rights:
He was to be knighted, he was to be a
Don; he was to be Grand Admiral ; he
was to be Viceroy: these titles were to
remain in his family in perpetuity: he was
to have ten per cent, on all transactions
within his Admiralty.
Columbus had spent six years in
Portugal trying to get sent on his explora-
tion ; he had been seven years more try-
ing to persuade the King and Queen of
Spain to back him; when they seemed
like complying, but boggled at some of
his conditions, he got on his horse in his
threadbare clothes and rode away ; and
after powerful friends had reversed the
Queen’s decision, but so that the fulfil-
ment of his conditions should depend on
his success, a fast horseman had to be
sent to bring him back.
For 29 chapters, Senor de Madariaga
fits together what might well be called
this Mosaic: of studies in Portugal, of
Spanish court life, of the first voyage of
discovery, of the two succeeding voyages
of colonisation, from the second of which
Columbus returns in irons, a discredited
administrator; and a fourth voyage on
which Columbus sets out to discover the
mainland behind the islands found in his
previous voyages, the mainland he still
thought would be India or Marco Polo’s
Cathay. And then, like Neville Cardus
on Sunday night, having introduced his
music, the biographer puts aside his argu-
ments, his extracts, his guesses and his
theorising, and plays the record: the
letter which Columbus wrote to the King
and Queen of Spain from the wreck of
his ships in Jamaica after he had sailed
for the first time along the isthmus of
Panama.
The calculated dramatic effect of in-
serting this letter as Chapter Thirty of
the biography is to bring the man whom
so far we have heard of only in reports
and by conjecture suddenly before us;
and he is chosen to appear at a time
when he looks most like a venerable
Hebrew prophet, deserted by man and
calling upon his God. With his ships of
discovery he has been denied admittance
to the harbor at Espanola which he dis-
covered and of which he had been
Viceroy; ’ caught again and again in
dreadful storms, he has been shown by
the Indians the goldmines of the main-
land, andi then his ships, worm-eaten and
blown ragged in more storms, have run
aground in Jamaica. He has sent Diego
Mendez in a canoe to Espanola for help.
Although he does not know it, Mendez
has made Espanola in four days, but
Ovando, the Governor in Espanola, has
decided to let Columbus rot in Jamaica,
and it is to be a year before Mendez can
send a ship to take him off. His crews
are rebellious, and the Indians are to
pass from subservience to menaces,
occasion for the well-known story of how
Columbus, realising that an eclipse of
the sun was due, used it to cow the
natives by threatening them with his
control of such matters. : . .
I am as forlorn as I said; I have wept
for others so far; let Heaven have mercy
now and let the earth weep for me.
It is a magnificent and a terrible letter,
as file biographer is not slow to point
out:
It is not given to everyone with his poor
words to build a ship majestical enough yet
swift enough for the Lord to sail in her.
Colon’s style had this double quality with-
out which divinity visits not the sons of
men. It is great, but it is swift.
And he also finds that it has;
a breadth, a spaciousness of suffering,
of tension, of aspirations, the vast scale of
which is not unworthy of the Lord, that
God of his, far closer to Jehovah than to
Jesus!
If we say that this is a fine biography
in the subjective manner we should admit
that what is unknown may just as well
be subjective: “In the carrying-out of
this enterprise of the Indies neither
reason nor mathematics nor maps were
any use to me,” said Columbus; he
sailed by imperfect theories and, dis-
covering America, believed it to be India
or maybe China; and now Senor de
Madariaga sails back through time, over
seas only a little more charted, to find
Columbus, but whether his theories are
as imperfect, and whether the Jew he has
discovered was a Gentile, we may never
know.
Reviewed Briefly.
Two reprints from the Falcon Press
are Selected Writings of William Morris,
introduced and edited by William Gaunt,
and Thackeray’s The Four Georges, with
an introduction by James Agate—one of
the last essays Agate wrote before his
death.
Jfc H« * *
Personality Unlimited; The Beauty
Blue Book: Veronica Dengel (Faber).
The, publishers say that this book is
famous in America, that British women
demanded that it should be reprinted for
them, that it is practical from start to
finish and that Mrs. Dengel says that
every normal woman can achieve poise,
self-confidence and a good appearance —
to which end she submits diets, exercises,
wise words and 66 photographs of beauti-
ful creatures standing on their heads,
etc., in pyjamas.
* * * *
Journalism for Women : Molly Graham
(Werner Laurie). Covers everything the
beginner should know, from how to make
a few shillings by writing in the intervals
(if any) of housework to how to make
millions writing radio plays. It deals
with English markets and customs, but
much of the advice is applicable to Aus-
tralia. An astounding introduction by
Anne Robertson Coupar, averaging three
cliches to the line—“lf it is your happy
lot to grow up within the charmed circle
of the sisterhood of scribes, this volume
will provide a handy reference to all the
wisdom you unconsciously imbibe” —
may serve to warn the young writer how
slight is the connection between
journalism and literature.
* * * » *
The White Pony : Anthology of Chinese
poetry edited by Robert Payne (Allen
and Unwin). Where the book differs
from previous collections is that it has
been compiled by Chinese scholars, who
are responsible for most of the transla-
tions and that, beginning with the Chou
Dynasty of 1112-249 b.c., it ranges right
through Chinese history to modem times.
The print is clear, the translations are
excellent and, in addition to two introduc-
tory essays, there are interesting bio-
graphical and critical notes on the poets
Lu Yu, for instance, lived from a.d. 1125
to 1209, outlived six emperors and wrote
the staggering total of 11,000 poems.
The modern poems, including some by
Tien Chien, the “enfant terrible” who has
attempted to create an entirely new style,
deal generally with the awakening ot
China in a manner reminiscent of
Alexander Blok’s poems of the Russian
revolution. But in translation the differ-
ence between Tien Chiep and To Fu
(713-770)—“Blue is the smoke of war,
white the bones of men” —is impercep-
tible.


TRUTH MIN ADVERTISING'
ITHOIY lIOIIIILKVS
We’re still applauding
Eureka Vacuum Cleaners
for their outstanding performance
Streamlined appearance, and easy, smooth running
★ Specially designed for wall-to-wall carpets.
★ Powerful suction does, not harm most delicate surfaces.
★ Accessories stay attached and are simple to handle.
+ Made in England for ANTHONY HORDERNS’.
★ Available on easy terms, with 12 months’ guarantee.
★ Price only £2410' ■ Attachments £3/5/- extra.
. ■■ - ■‘■'T
’
■■PMi
;,
i ppl «Si
yj|y
: ' -
mm
MwmMmmMmm
mu
*
§ ;
«
mmm
t -XSSSO/&
,
iMM:-
< «&:• ' 'T
iriHHHMpp
V'.'* ' ’ ~ r 'l £
’
m
:■:,;■»;•'■■■ ■■'■'■■A'.
W HI
SrWStfM
> ,;r
Ban
w «
•v '
ilil li
U*l^R
m? m.
in
I
......i
■ ■
„
■ ;:: >• : : , "
ill :
11
iiiiii
m
m
'
J
Floors and Walls
You can forget
/the days of
tiring sweeping
and straining to
clean walls. Let the
“Eureka” do
all this for you.
Awkward Corners
Dust in those hard-to-get
spots . . . corners,
radiators, under furniture
and so on is easily
blown out with
the “Eureka”
attachment.
Upholstery
Keep your lounge and
all upholstery speckless
by using the special
nozzle attachment
of the “Eureka.’'
Ideal for
draperies too.
Dusting
The “EUREKA” way
is the best way!
Ideal for table tops,
lampshades , Venetian
blinds, etc. Whisk
through your
housework
with a
“Eureka”
ft.
;
mm
■■
■
1
/<**•
*
mm
¥ik
m
Right.
Silovac Floor Polisher
This two-brush polisher leaves floor with
non-slip gleaming finish. Easily adapted for
scrubbing, brushes easily cleaned, fully
guaranteed. Available on easy terms.
£27/2/6 complete.
Left.
Electric Waffle Iron
The De-Luxe Waffle Iron is of attrac-
tive modern design, with highly polished
plated finish. With set of instructions
and recipe, £5/2/6. Flex, plug, 6/- extra.
i-
*t'L
L
fmmmm
:VV„
r
I
£/•*<
Left.
Electric Hair Dryer
English made, operating
switch for hot or
cold air. 240 volt,
AC only. Safe and reliable.
12 months’ guarantee.
Complete with flex and
plug, £4/19/6.
Below.
Portable Electric Room Heater
Plug in, switch on and you have cosy, dry heat
evenly distributed. Needs no maintenance,
no repairs! A portable unit, available on
eafy terms. Price, £29/10/-.
......
liii
.: ■ m
■ ■■ i
Wsmmgm
MB
*
mmm
y
; ®
pi m W
111
i-K
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ ELECTRICAL DEPT.—GROUND FLOOR, PITT ST. M 2401; BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


The Bulletin
Vol. 70—No. 3618
Wednesday, June IS, 1949
PERILOUS GOING.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
GALL AND WORMWOOD.
In at least two quarters the High Court’s
invalidation of Canberra’s war-time
petrol-rationing four years after the war
ended —and high time, too —has aroused
lamentation and gnashing of teeth. The
Socialist totalitarians have lost one of
their instruments for regimenting the
public; the blackmarketeers have lost a
profitable business in defying a sump-
tuary regulation which every petrol-user
—except Government petrol - users —
resented.
While the High Court was consider-
ing its judgment Parliament was treated
to exchanges at some length between the
Prime Minister and Mr. Fadden on the
Country-party leader’s assertion (1) that
further rationing was unnecessary, and
(2) that any alleged saving in petrol im-
ports was insignificant in terms of the
volume of sterling-area petrol available.
In reply Mr. Chifley reiterated that
rationing was helping Britain, that Sir
Stafford Cripps (his fellow-Socialist revo-
lutionary) desired Australian rationing
to continue, and that figures he had had
from Britain were conclusive but strictly
secret. On the point how far Australian
rationing was helping Britain these
Socialists are entirely vague.
When the High Court delivered its
unanimous judgment against Canberra’s
assumed powers to ration petrol,
Mr. Chifley’s appeal to the States to take
over the job was tantamount to inviting
them to reinvest the joyful public
with the Socialist chains which the
High Court has struck off. The
public is supposed to hold out its
hands for these chains, and the State
Parliaments are supposed to be game to
put them on. “Labor” Premier Hanlon
of Queensland and Liberal Premier
Hollway of Victoria promptly threw
cold water on any such notion,
especially Mr. Hanlon, who said em-
phatically that effective rationing would
be impossible for the States. Some of his
followers added that for the State Gov-
ernment to attempt rationing would be
suicidal with elections only a year
ahead.
It may be that the State Premiers
could, if they should feel like that, agree
upon legislation to transfer to the Com-
monwealth specific powers to cover
petrol-rationing. But that would be hardly
less conducive to electoral wrath against
each of them. Moreover, remembering
the ill-tempered fashion in which Mr.
Chifley threw general prices-control back
at the States after last year’s referendum,
and resentful at Mr. Chifley’s crowing
when the High Court supported his
claim (in effect) to shut the States per-
manently out of the income-tax field, the
Premiers are hardly in a mood to accede
now to a proposition which would leave
them to face all the public resentment if
petrol-rationing should be restored.
Most State legislatures are much more
responsive to public opinion than Mr.
Chifley’s caucus-run Federal Parliament,
and in this instance there would be no
mistaking the force of that opinion. Not
to State Premiers alone and in camera,
but to their Parliaments and the public,
Mr. Chifley would at least have to dis-
close those figures about dollar petrol
which the Socialist dictator in West-
minster has confided to his opposite
number in Canberra. Anyway, the pub-
lic will this time want proof of damage
done from actual operation of a free
market. To ask anything else of them
would be ridiculous, especially under
that banner with the strange device —
“Abolish freedom in order to save Eng-
land!”
With this and other essential powers
in their own hands, Mr. Chifley and his
unification party would be quite in-
different about the fate of State Gov-
ernments following such a surrender,
especially as it would be another nail in
the coffin of State Parliaments them-
selves. Let the High Court judgment
speak on this latter point:
If it were held that the defence power
[of the Commonwealth] would justify any
legislation at any time which dealt with
any matter the character of which had
been changed by the war, or with any
problem which had been created or aggra-
vated by the war, the Commonwealth
Parliament would have a general power to
make laws on almost every subject. Nearly
all the limitations imposed on Common-
wealth power by the Constitution would
disappear. A unitary system of govern-
ment would be brought into existence
notwithstanding the deliberate acceptance
by the people of a Federal system.
Mr. Chifley’s motives have been chal-
lenged by Mr. Fadden, and they remain
suspect because:
He has failed to deal with the enormous
blackmarket in rationed petrol; in other
words, he couldn’t police his regulations.
He has given no evidence whatever of
economy in use of petrol by Government
users, which, like dames (as Mr. Chifley
lately recalled), “don’t care!’’
His Government has repeatedly assured
the public that war-time controls would
gradually be tapered off, and every tax-
payer knows now that to abandon controls
desirable as a means of pushing forward
the socialisation of all industry is the very
last intention in Mr. Chifley’s mind.
For the public distrust of his pose of
helping Britain Mr. Chifley has only him-
self to blame. He has revealed himself
as seeking arbitrary centralised powers in
order to speed his party’s socialisation
programme. Quite as strong as his desire
to help the British "Socialist Government
in its Budget distresses is his belief —fre-
quently declared—that the Australian
public cannot be trusted to spend in its
own way its residual income after his tax-
gatherers have taken their fill of it. If
the public is left free to buy petrol or any-
thing else it can afford within its means
as represented by the Chifley currency,
the Chifley-Socialist heavens will fall.
Mr. Fadden has said:
Production of sterling oil in 1948 was
64 million tons, and the total British Com-
monwealth consumption was only 45
million. Of the surplus, Australia requires
a mere fraction of one million tons a year
to end rationing, on Mr. Chifley’s own
figures.
How much does it “help Britain” to
deny ourselves that additional amount?
Would not Britain’s needs be better served
if the thousands of Government em-
ployees engaged in rationing liquid fuel
and dealing with permits were put to
profitable work for the export trade?
In any case, is the saving in Australia
of a few hundred thousand tons of petrol
per annum going to get Britain out of
her mess under a Socialist regime, especi-
ally after “capitalist” financial aid from
U.S.A. has ceased in 1952 and German
competition has re-entered international
markets? Much more credible is the
proposition that both Mr. Chifley and
Sir Stafford Cripps are hanging on to
central controls and government-by-regu-
lation as the working tools of their
Socialist revolution. In order to “save”
Britain for this sort of servitude we must
go more deeply under the Socialist yoke
ourselves. That is the argument. Sir
Stafford Cripps has confidentially re-
vealed his difficulties to Mr. Chifley and
requested co-operation. The Australian
people must take all that —and petrol-
rationing—on faith. # That is the stuff
Mr. Chifley has been "trying to put over.
It won’t pass. The High Court has
placed the people in a position to say so
and to make their decision stick. They
know that their own national Parliament
has been bound and gagged and its de-
liberative functions given over to an ex-
traneous Socialist caucus, and that now
a sort of super-caucus is devising, as in
the Cripps-Chifley secret consultations,
some co-operation between the two
Socialist outfits for fastening on the one
country or the other war-time controls
which have lost all meaning and moral
validity, and now, in this country (as
is being progressively discovered), legal
validity as well.
A Brisbane suburban garage-proprietor,
Mr. William Cheyne Gall, had had
enough of the exasperating petrol-ration-
ing farce, and, when prosecuted for
having 119 tickets which inspectors didn’t
like, he put a stone in his sling, flung it
at the Government’s whole system of
liquid-fuel control, and knocked it out.
There will be a lot more people with
slings in hand now.
Developing the North.
The leader in The Bulletin of 25/5/’49
is well on to the Northern Territory
target when it says: “Since £50,000,000
is allegedly to be spent in furthering this
plan, it is to be presumed it will also
smell of Supply and Development ‘de-
fence’ methods before it is through.”
When the British Food Mission was in
Australia a year or so ago some of its
members saw Mr. Chifley about develop-
ment in the N.T., and I quote from a
letter from England telling about that
meeting:
Chifley appeared to be relieved that
the first scheme is to apply to Queensland
and not to the Northern Territory, and I
gather that it would be a long time
before any large scheme for the Northern
Territory was taken in hand, because there
are so few voters there that the Govern-
ment need not consider them as electors.
The Prime Minister does not change
his views readily, which gives emphasis
to the feeling that his talk of develop-
ment of the N.T. is a political stunt.
Frustration must have caused the present
Administrator to be outspoken as
president of the N.T. Legislative Council.
Speaking in the council on 18/2/’49
(“N.T. Legislative Council Debates” No.
3, p. 347), Mr. Driver said:
I feel that a word of explanation is
required concerning the North Australia
Development Committee, which was formed
after the war to formulate recommenda-
tions for the whole of the north of
Australia. It had no executive power what-
ever The North Australia Development
Committee made certain recommendations,
but it was not a very powerful body....
I am afraid the North Australia Develop-
ment Committee has now gone into recess,
for how long I do not know... .Further-
more, the Department of Post-war Recon-
struction has been delving into the
probability of developing the Northern
Territoiy as well as the top ends of Western
Australia and Queensland, but there have
only been a few of the long-haired .boys
down below handling the matter and not
really knowing what to do with it.
I can well understand the exasperation
which forced the Administrator to com-
ment. Bureaucracy is all over the Terri-
tory. Legions of departmental officials
construct cocoons of confusion. The
Department of Health makes a botch of
the medical services; the Department of
Civil Aviation does little better; officers
of the Customs Department pen incom-
ing air-passengers in a stifling room at
the aerodrome; private shipping com-
panies avoid Darwin; and the Depart-
ment of Works and Housing has at last
completed the building of half a dozen
houses.
Just to show how cordial the depart-
ments are to each other, at the first meet-
ing of the Legislative Council in Dar-
win on February 16, 1948, Mr. Lucas,
the Director of Works, said:
I should like members to appreciate the
fact that the department which I represent
is not a branch of the Northern Territory
Administration. It is a department which
is operating in the Territory, but is under
the control of its own Minister, who
formulates its policies.
The Department of Works and the De-
partment of Post-war Reconstruction
are mainly responsible for the delays and
bewilderments Territory residents have
suffered since the war. W. B. Mclnnis,
former Brisbane City Planner, who knew
Darwin well, worked out a rebuilding
scheme for the town which was accept-
able to the residents and the Administra-
tion. It might have cost a million and
a half, including resumptions. But the
long-haired boys in Canberra tossed it
into the waste-paper basket. “This won’t
do,” they said. “We must have some-
thing really worth while.” So a couple
dashed off to Brazil to study tropical
house-planning there, and two more to
Batavia and Singapore. Then they pro-
duced volumes of plans for zoning, for
built-up areas and for parks and play-
grounds, estimated to cost, by the time
Darwin reached a population of 20,000,
thirty million pounds!
Now the Chifley Government talks of
roads through the rugged Victoria River
and Ord country, to reach the Wyndham
meatworks, owned by the Western Aus*
tralian Government, and showing very
substantial losses through the years.
But soft !• Wyndham and the Kimberleys
are in the electorate of the Minister for
the Interior, Mr. Johnson.
Mr. Chifley has entered into a con-
tract with the British Government to
supply Britain with meat for 10 years,
commencing no one knows when, and at
a price which is top secret and must not
be divulged. How right to call all this
another political stunt!
Those of us who know the Territory
are not blind to its shortcomings. After
travelling over it for nine years, I think
its 523,000 square miles can be classi-
fied in fifths. One-fifth is really good
country, and one-fifth second-class cattle
country, capable of improvement. Two-
fifths are indifferent lands —coastal,
rocky or unwatered —and one-fifth is
pure desert. But there are 100,000 square
miles of first-class lands, and that is
larger than the State of Victoria. A
mighty lot could be done with this under
sensible and reasonable conditions.
Payne and Fletcher pointed out the way
in 1937—10ng leases and railways—and
had the portion of their report dealing
with development-leases on long tenure
been adopted the Territory would be 12
years closer to producing beef for
Britain, and this beef would be on the
hoof and not in Mr. Chifley’s fantasies.
Full confidence is the only thing to
put the Territory firmly on its feet, and
then ample capital would be invested.
Capital expended by experienced private
enterprise will have far hetter results
than Government fooling. For the next
50 years it will not be a small-man’s
country. At the moment a land board
in Darwin is examining applications for
Barkly Tableland blocks, averaging
1000 square miles. One condition is that
the applicant must have at least
£10,000!
It is now clear that the traduced
Vestey and Bovril companies are better
at improving their holdings than indi-
vidual landholders. Mr. Barclay, the
present Lands Director, made this clear
when he compared the improvements
on 36 properties in the Alice Springs
district with the Vestey holdings. This
is what he said in the Legislative Council
on 12/8/’4B:
The records show that in that total of
37,437 square miles, made up of 36 hold-
ings, there are 219 waters, 1061 miles of
fencing, and 216 yards. The average holding
is 1040 square miles in area, with six
waters a holding, or one to each 174 square
miles, 30 miles of fencing and six yards.
I suggest that 30 miles of fencing on cattle
properties would not enclose a small horse-
paddock. I will now read a summary of
improvements on the Vestey leases, com-
piled from the same source, not supplied
by the enemy Averages per holding.
Area, 3014 square miles; waters, eight;
miles of fencing, 90; yards, 11.4.
The people to develop the cattle in-
dustry are the big firms who command
capital. But there must be two conditions.
First, confidence in the future through
security of tenure, and I don’t see the
Chifley Government doing much more
than talking. Second, there must be a
railway from Queensland. In the Terri-
tory’s 523,000 square miles there are
actually only 500 miles of railway.
Queensland, on one side, has 6000, and
Western Australia, on the other, 4000.
But more railways mean more steel, and
more steel more coal, and as the Aus-
tralian coalminer doesn’t let us have
enough coal for minimum present needs
I don’t know the answer to that.
C. L. A. ABBOTT.
Colly in Our Alley.
Of all the girls down our back-lane
There’s none so tough as Cally,
And jobs that others might disdain
Are right up Cally’s alley;
There’s no charlady in the land
So fond of dirt as Cally —
She’s not the darling of our heart ,
But she lives in our alley.
Attending public offices
She gleans much information,
And welcomes any private guess
Or veiled insinuation;
It may be chalked upon the wall
Or written by Ern Mallery —
That doesn’t worry her at all;
She spreads it round our alley.
No matter what we say or do
She ventilates her privi-
ledged gossip upon me and you
Like any keyhole skivvy;
And while she thumps her garbage-bin
We’re not exactly pally,
So Cally’s taking lodgers in
To back her in our alley.
She kicks old lodgers from her doors
With most uncalled-for slander,
And takes in foreigners, because
They cannot understand her;
Let’s hope that soon they’ll learn enough
To join us in a rally
And, calling bully Cally’s bluff.
Deport her from our alley.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.
For the Very Young.
Socialists and others with pet schemes
f or social improvement might do worse
than study what is already being done
j n this direction by the public-minded
citizens who have built up the kinder-
garten systems of Australia. The
Kindergarten Union of N. S. Wales,
w j dc j 1 j s this week holding a drive for
funds, is not a Government institution.
j t g rew f ro m small beginnings through
the endeavors of a few idealists who gave
their time and money to the idea of cater-
ing for children of pre-school age. As
time went on their numbers increased,
mak j n g possible extensions of the move-
ment until it now controls 33 kinder-
gartens scattered around the suburbs of
s ydney> as well as a training-college
w hi c h supplies teachers and supervisors
t 0 kindergartens all over the Common-
wea]th.
kindergartens cater for mind and
k ody a jike. Play-equipment is provided
tQ delight tb , e heart of any youngster,
and routine is designed to assist the
k j dd ] es j n developing habits of self-help
and g i ve . and . ta ke. Medical and dental
j nS p ecdons are regular and thorough, a
we in,alanced midday hot meal is pro-
vided? and the children are given a daily
js sue of milk, orange-juice and codliver-
oil A fee is charged to cover these
h ems hut in necessitous cases the charge
- s wa ] ved
R ., fcave hit [he kindergarten
movement as ,hey have everything else,
MntWc’ rinh« fin a lot of
"od “ heU £
their best t 0 assist j n keeping expenses
down, the annual bill is still consider-
able — th j s yea r’s estimate is something
£ 3 q 000. There is a Government
. of ’ £ io,ooo, but the lion’s share of
° ’ *
{Continued on next page)


the upkeep has to be raised by public-
spirited committees in the suburbs where
the kindergartens operate.
There is no doubt of the value of the
work done by the Kindergarten Union,
and there is a strong case for an increase
in the subsidy. It was last increased five
years ago, when costs were much lower
and there were 12 fewer centres to be
provided for. The grant compares very
unfavorably with that paid in some of
the other States. South Australia, for
example, has only 16 kindergartens, yet
the State grant is £9730, almost as much
as New South Wales provides to cover
more than twice the number of centres.
Every kindergarten in Sydney has a long
waiting-list, and the need for the open-
ing of new centres is . undeni able. There
seems to be an unanswerable case for an
increase in the Government grant. A
fixed sum envisages a static condition in
an organisation which should be—and
actually is—expanding. A better system
would be a per capita grant or a subsidy
on a pound-for-pound basis.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Privilege and Slander.
It is regarded in all British Parliaments
as essential that the Speaker shall be
strictly impartial and divest, himself while
in office of party loyaltyalso that he
shall rigidly carry out the provisions of
the Standing Orders —which are made, by
virtue of the Constitution, by the House
and not by him —without fear or favor;
also that he shall be answerable to the
House, irrespective of where the effects
of any errors he might make may fall.
But Mr. Chifley does not subscribe to
this immemorial view of the rights of
speakership and of the House. He has
made it clear that he considers the
Speaker must be supported by the Gov-
ernment under all circumstances, “right
or wrong.”
Another stand by Mr. Chifley which
calls for public attention was this asser-
tion during the discussion of the dirty
attack by Mr. Calwell on Mr. Adermann;
I have a complete cure for this question
of defamation, both of members and the
public. I would wipe out this privilege
altogether because of such occurrences as
that. I would make a provision that any
man who makes statements in this Parlia-
ment about the character of any individual
should be subject to the ordinary processes
of law.
Then he continued in a way which
showed how his thoughts were trending:
I have no objection to the Standing
Orders being revised so as to remove
privilege from statements such as I have
heard made recently by the member for
New England, Mr. Abbott, the member for
Richmond, Mr, Anthony, and the member
for Wentworth, Mr. Harrison, when they
made the gravest reflections on Sir David
Rivett and other leading citizens, who have
had no opportunity to reply.
It should be said at once that the type
of allegation which Mr. Chifley desires
to divest of privilege, and that which was
the subject of the Opposition resolution,
are widely different. In one case the
members to whom Mr. Chifley referred
were criticising the alleged official attitude
of a highly-placed civil servant, for the
behavior of whom, since they involve the
safety of the country, Parliament itself is
responsible to the electors.
Members would have been lacking in
their duty if they had not brought the
C.S.I.R. matter critically to the attention
of Parliament.
One of the two other “leading citizens”
whom they criticised was Mountjoy,
utterer of the foul libel against a reput-
able citizen, who was charged under
privilege by Mountjoy with having a
share in a house of assignation. The
libeller in that case was then defeated
at the polls, and, having been a railway-
porter in private life, was appointed to
the executive of the Commonwealth’s
most important scientific and defence
research body. Such an appointment it
was also a duty of members to criticise.
The only other “leading citizen” in-
volved in Opposition criticism was a
Communist official who, having been
jailed and interned for espionage inside
the Civil Air Defence organisation for his
party, headquarters of which were then
in Hitler’s Vienna, now has a permanent
job in the C.S.I.R.
Mr. Chifley places the discussion of
such matters in the same category as
FOR THE CORIO CUP.
“Hubert Opperman, the champion cyclist, standing as a Liberal, Will oppose-Reconstruction Minister Dedman in Corio.”
“You’d be belter on—well, on anything that went forward instead of backwards, Deddie.”
venomous and unsubstantiated accusa-
tions against the personal character of in-
dividuals. He is willing (so he says) to
wipe out privilege in these matters alto-
gether—though, of course, no doubt, pre-
serving the legal right of Ministers to
privilege which applies to them both in-
side and outside the House in respect of
official statements connected with the
business of the Commonwealth and their
departments.
To divest members of their privileges
would end the reign of Parliamentary
government. As things now stand the
House of Representatives itself has
its powers to deal with abuse of
privilege. In most Houses which valued
their self-respect all parties would have
combined to make the slanderer of
Adermann prove his words to the hilt or
suffer distressing consequences.
Mr. Chifley, however, who says he
deprecates the misuse of privilege so
much that he would be willing to de-
stroy privilege in free criticism altogether,
is not even willing *to use the forms of
the House to inquire into allegations
which affect the honor and reputation
both of the accused member and of
Parliament as a whole!
And in past cases, instead of punish-
ing the guiltiest slanderers on his own
side, his Government has actually en-
couraged them with preferments, as it
did in the case of the nasty-tongued
Mountjoy,
Where Socialism Flounders.
It should be plain to everybody now why
socialisation raises overhead costs, why
Government enterprises don’t and can’t
pay, and why it is hopeless to expect
Government-run industry to maintain a
country’s market in international trade.
The inefficiency starts with the false
principle that no Government employee,
however superfluous, must ever be dis-
charged. The Government service or the
Socialised industry must, selectively or
collectively, carry him at all costs. The
employee may not naturally be a drone ;
he becomes one.’ The hive ceases to be
hive when the number of such drones is
illimitable.
How many thousands of Government
servants were employed in the Chifley
petrol-rationing set-up has not been stated.
They are not being told to seek jobs in
the labor-starved industry “outside” ;
they are simply being “absorbed in other
departments”: perhaps, for instance, in
that modern absurdity called the Bureau
of Commonwealth Employment Service.
What earthly call there is for that agency
when every Minister boasts that there is
no unemployment, and the number of
hands short in commercial industry runs
into six figures, baffles the imagina-
tion. As the Melbourne Chamber of
Commerce declares, this superfluous
Federal department has nothing to do
and is a double drag on productive in-
dustry-through taxation to keep it up,
and the potential working hands it keeps
idle.
It is the inefficiency in practice that
kills this crazy scheme for socialising the
nation’s industries. That thoroughgoing
Socialist Herbert Morrison has just told
British “Labor’s” Blackpool Conference
that the conduct of socialised industries
“must be improved.” The ranks heard
with dismay that: *
Socialism is no magical organisation that
gives things without earning them, and
where anyone can go easy and slack.
Heresy, that, at Blackpool, and in Can-
berra, too. When a railway guard got
up in support and said “things haven’t
got better under railway nationalisation,
but worse,” there were howls of protest :
Mr. Morrison added:
A lively, thrustful enterprise must run
through socialised industries from top to
bottom.
And if not, then what? The sack for
the lazy and go-slow artist? The cutting-
out of deadwood? Will the show be
allowed to go under if through sheer in-
efficiency it can’t compete with private
enterprise in those fields where, says Mr.
Morrison, “competition would be good
for both”?
Like smoke! When Mr. Chifley even
tries to put across that sort of stuff in
Australia, that will be the day!
The "Labor" Split.
One thing the basic-wage hearing in Mel-
bourne is doing is to expose the extent of
the split in the “Labor” party’s indus-
trial wing. That the split is reflected in
the political wing was shown by Mr.
Ward’s opposition to Cabinet’s abolition
of the Stevedoring Industry Commission
—made unworkable by the wharfies’
Communist leaders —and the introduction
of incentive-payments for increased pro-
duction.
For two years the Melbourne and
Sydney Trades Halls have been distracted
by the disaffection, amounting in some
cases to open “disaffiliation,” of certain
Communist-led unions. The bosses
of these organisations can, by ordering a
strike or causing stoppages in certain
industries, hold up employment far and
wide, and they calculate accordingly. The
coalminers and the wharfies, show-pieces
on this chessboard, have sought their own
tribunals outside the Arbitration Court;
others like the seamen, the ironworkers,
the building federation and the metal-
trades union habitually treat the court
and its conciliation auxiliaries with de-
fiance. The engineering unions, or State
branches of them, are tending the same
way.
In Victoria the “combined-unions com-
mittee,” running eight Communist-bossed
key unions, has defied the A.C.T.U.
by seeking from Sydney malcon-
tents agreement on direct - action to
enforce the interim increase in the basic
wage which the Arbitration Court, in
view of the permanent application, has
refused to consider.
What has emphasised this split has been
the court’s requirement that the A.C.T.U.
should furnish it with unqualified
assurances, from its own executive and
from all unions concerned, of confidence
and acquiescence in the court’s jurisdic-
tion, rejecting recourse to any form of
direct action during hearing of claims
lodged. After some delay an assur-
ance was offered by the A.C.T.U. s
leading advocate, Mr. Evans of the
Federated Enginedrivers, in a form of
words which seemed to leave something
to be desired, Even so the effect was to
draw a line between the A.C.T.U.’s repre-
sentation before the court and that of the
Communist-bossed group, led by Baker
of the ironworkers, who now leads also
for the Federal builders, metal-workers.
Communist Brown’s Victorian branch of
the A.R.U., seamen and other units
of the Victorian “combined - unions
committee,” and the A.C.T.U. is gravely
disturbed by the fact. It does not appear
that any of these unions has given those
assurances against direct-action which the
court required.
Incidentally, A.C.T.U. advocate Evans,
who delivered the congress executive s
o Continued foot of page 7.)


■
They satisfy
in every way •• •
CRAVENA"
made specially to
ptevewt so
-
h
6R59E-R
CARRERAS LIMITED
OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
assurances to the court, had to ask for
an adjournment while he flew to Sydney
to try to bring the N.S.W. branch of
his own union (the F.E.D.F.A.) to call off
its strike in rebellion against the Federal
executive. He failed, and suffered the
humiliation of seeing the court adjourn
the basic-wage hearing while it de-
registered the F.E.D.F.A. for refusing
arbitration and insisting on direct-action.
POLITICAL POINTS
Following their usual tactics of seek-
ing the behefits of arbitration while re-
pudiating its responsibilities, the miners’
Communist leaders put before the Coal
Industry Tribunal (Mr. Gallagher) their
claims for shorter hours, increased pay
and a guarantee of long-service leave
without strings against a background of
threatened “one-day stoppages” if a
prompt —and, of course, favorable —de-
cision was not given. Taxed with the
inconsistency, Idris Williams denied that
a stoppage was planned for June 16.
A report to that effect in the miners’
paper “Common Cause” was, he said,
“not correct.” Mr. Gallagher completed
his hearing of the long-service claims on
Thursday, and intimated that he would
make a draft award on Tuesday (yester-
day). On Saturday Williams and his col-
leagues announced their intention of call-
ing a stoppage on June 16 to discuss a
general strike to begin on June 27. Mr.
Gallagher’s reaction was that he would
not now deliver a draft award.
The miners’ threat of a general strike
moved the Prime Minister to complain
of their “base ingratitude” for all that
the Federal and N. S. Wales “Labor”
Governments had done for them. It is
base ingratitude all right, but what else
does Chifley expect from the Comrades?
He has repeatedly permitted “Fixer”
Ashley to go over the heads of his own
constituted authorities to appease the
Reds for political ends. Now in election
year they are determined to blackmail
him into further concessions.
Granted space in the “Sydney Morning
Herald” to reply to Warwick Fairfax’s
comment on his Press ban, Premier Mc-
Girr repeated his charges of biased re-
porting and added: —
It seems to me that the great majority
of people recognise the daily newspapers
as organs of partisan political propaganda,
and the comment one hears everywhere is
“You can’t ever believe what you read in
the papers.”
If that is so, why go to the trouble of
banning them?
There was an omen for Australian
farmers at the British Labor-party con-
ference, where Minister for War Shinwell
announced that “if farmers did not
respond to Government directions they
must be dispossessed and the land ac-
quired for more useful purposes.” So
far the Canberra “Labor” Government
has satisfied itself with “acquiring” wheat
and cream, and the Brisbane “Labor”
Government has taken the right to “ac-
quire” live-stock under an abattoirs bill.
Anybody who doesn’t believe that the
Canberra crowd, if returned to power,
will follow the Shinwell lead needs his
brains brushed. Socialism means “ac-
quisition”—another term for grabbing
private land as well as private industry
and banks.
“The Government would look silly if
it could not make its own business pay.”
Thus Chifley in attempting to justify
the savage increase in the P.M.G. rake-
off from a public already bled white for
the millions which “Labor” is pouring
down the bottomless pit of Socialism.
Whereat McGirr looked at his railway
deficit and blushed pink and Drakeford,
Minister for Civil Aviation, put on a
sheepish grin. “Fixer” Ashley, Minister
for Shipping, looked positively ridiculous,
but no one noticed anything different
about that.
A N.S.W. wheat town is to be selected
as a subject for “research into social
tensions in Australia.” The researchers
would do well to avoid the place if (a)
its team reaches the football finals, ib)
the beer supply is on the blink, or (c) it
happens to be a key place in one of those
new electorates.
One of the instructing solicitors in the
petrol-rationing case, wherein the High
Court declared the Commonwealth
petrol-rationing powers invalid, now sug-
gests as the next target the Common-
wealth’s power to acquire city buildings
—one that is being exercised to extremes.
The Prime Minister told the N. S. Wales
“Labor” conference that “it rather be-
wildered him at times to find in this
country people who believed there was a
system in Russia which would bring
better conditions than existed here.” He
believed it would take Russia another 50
years to catch up to the standard of living
enjoyed in Australia. Not so long ago
one of Chifley’s Ministers, E. J. Ward,
was telling Australians that Russia had
made more progress in 25 years than
capitalist countries had made in 250. The
statements are not entirely irreconcilable.
Taken together perhaps they mean that
Russia is still 500 years behind us.
Repatriation Minister Barnard is appar-
ently not familiar with Pickwick Papers
or he would heed old Tony Weller’s
advice to his son to “be wery careful of
vidders.” Said the old man to Sam,
speaking from bitter experience,
Vidders are ’ceptions to ev’ry rule. I
have heerd how many ord’nary women one
vidder’s equal to. I think it’s five-and-
twenty, but I don’t rightly know vether it
an’t more.
One Australian widow in particular seems
to be more than a match for a whole boil-
ing of Barnards.
More secret documents, this time in
Victoria. C.-P. leader McDonald alleged
that he had a document which Premier
Hollway signed in 1945 agreeing with
“Labor” leader Cain to wreck the
Dunstan Government, of which he was
Deputy-Premier. Hollway challenged
McDonald to produce the goods, at the
same time denying that they existed.
Nothing was produced. Then Cain said
he would be delighted to oblige, “if Mr.
Hollway so desired.” Hollway repeated
his denial that any such document existed.
After a little fumbling Cain brought forth
a letter. Dated September 3, 1943 —two
years earlier than McDonald and Cain
had alleged—it was written when the
Dunstan minority Government was in
power. Hollway was certainly not
Deputy-Premier at that time; he was
leader of the Victorian U.A.P. The letter
discussed an agreement for redistribution
of electorates, and the establishment of a
public-service tribunal. The “revelation”
was not the bombshell hinted at by Mc-
Donald and Cain, but it showed the un-
wisdom of an anti-“ Labor” party attempt-
ing any agreement with “Labor.” The
lesson should apply with equal force to
both anti-“ Labor” parties in Victoria.
In Federal politics there now seem to
be two main problems: whom to get
even with and how best to get on the
air with it. In his speech on the censure
motion, Calwell spoke lovingly of com-
ing remarks by Ward on Garden’s
counsel, Simon Isaacs. “That’ll be the
day!” interjected an Opposition member.
“That’ll be the night" Calwell retorted
happily.
Two absentees and a home-lover on
war and peace:
Doc. Evatt: It is clear that the inter-
national tension, which was so acute six
months ago, has now eased.
Mr. Beasley: Discontinuance of petrol-
rationing was inadvisable, for defence
reasons 1 think the British Common-
wealth has other reasons for conserving
petrol besides the saving of dollars.
Mr. Chifley: I can say with complete
confidence that the possibilities of war have
receded even further than twelve months
ago.
Yielding a little before demands for
properly-supervised secret ballots in
trade-union affairs, the N. S. Wales
“Labor” conference passed a resolution
recommending legislation to enable the
State Industrial Commission to order and
superintend a new ballot where irregu-
larities have been proved. It is a step
in the right direction, but it does not go
far enough. If all ballots were super-
vised there would be no irregularities—
and no Communist domination of unions.
The A.L.P, “Standard” on some
records:
Mr. Chifley has been in office three years,
nine months and 57 days. Previous
record: the late Mr. John Curtin, three
years, nine months, 56 days Sir Earle
Page was the previous holder of both
records [as Treasurer] and these were beaten
on June 18, 1948, when Mr. Chifley had
been Treasurer for six years, seven months
and 43 days. His term as Treasurer to date
is seven years, five months, 63 days.
Just how many days are there in an
A.L.P. month?
Chairman W. J. Allison, of Melbourne
Chamber of Commerce prices committee,
reveals one reason why everyman’s box
of matches costs more. Of the l£d. per
box charged the Chifley Government
takes |d. in excise and sales tax. The
excise tax —a ha’penny a dozen boxes
before the war —is now at Menzies
collected £81,960 a year from this before
the war ; Chifley took £1,364,194 last yeaf
and estimates he will rake off £1,500,000
in the current 12 months. If the P.M.
wants to know how to reduce inflationary
costs he can begin his studies right here.
Beasley, revisiting his old haunts—or
some of them —remarked that Australia
“would have to consider reintroducing
extensive publicity abroad.” Reintro-
ducing? Hasn’t his Excellency seen the
extensive publicity the Australian News
and Information Bureau puts out in
London? Really valuable stuff like this
sample from the sixth issue of volume V
of “Australia,” a monthly review, which
aims “to present factual accounts of life
and affairs in Australia”:
Joseph Benedict Chifley, known as “Ben”
or “Chit” his mode of living is the
same today as when he was earning a few
pounds a week Just as he gives himself
over entirely to work on weekdays, so does
Ben Chifley thoroughly relax on Sundays.
He usually spends most of them in bed
with a batch of detective novels chosen
indiscriminately. He has also read the
Bible ryne times Australians admire
above everything else frankness and
integrity, and it is this “dinkumness” that
Ben Chifley possesses He had been vic-
timised for his loyalty to his trade-union
in the 1917 railway strike....
There you are, Jack. If you think Aus-
tralia can get better value for its money
than that you had better have a word
with Arthur.
There’s another North Australia beef
plan out, this time from Australian
National Airways to the Hanlon Govern-
ment, which proposes to establish “small
station abattoirs” in the Gulf country,
kill and chill the carcasses thereat and
then fly them to meatworks at Cairns
and Townsville. A.N.A. sayls it can have
an experimental plane flying by the
middle of next year. But isn’t that a bit
too fast for Government blokes?
If the Calwell Immigration Act (Clos-
ing of Loopholes In) becomes law —as it
must unless an earthquake, tidal wave or
an epidemic of foot-and-mouth disease
wipes out “Labor’s” majority before the
bill reaches the third reading— out goes
Mrs. O’Keefe; out go all the little
O’Keefes; and out go the rest of the
aliens who “entered Australia during the
war” and who have “not since left Aus-
tralia.” And out go any hopes Federal
“Labor” held of providing leadership for
the new nations of Asia. Calwell’s pride
will no doubt be satisfied, but what will
good Dr. Evatt say?
South Australia’s soldier-settlement
scheme on Kangaroo Island is going
ahead. Over 20,000 acres of scrub have
been rolled, and scrub-clearing plant which
has been engaged on similar work on
the mainland will shortly be transferred
to the island to speed up the work.
Ploughing is proceeding at the rate of 300
acres a day, and it is hoped to have much
of the land under pasture by this time
next year. In addition to the Govern-
ment project much development has been
done by private blockholders, and K. 1.,
long a neglected child of Playford’s State,
looks like becoming a white-haired boy.
Aneurin Bevan, Britain’s Minister for
Health (or Disease, as Churchill once
said) and one of the wild men of the
Attlee Government, made another
venomous outburst at the Blackpool con-
ference (he had previously said the Tories
were “lower than vermin’’):
A Tory majority at the next general
election would close the road to democratic
government. All roads would be closed
except the roads to tyranny and oppression.
All roads would be closed except to civil
war and a blood-bath.
The British interpretation of democratic
government is government by the
majority. Bevan’s speech can only be
interpreted as meaning that if the majority
of people prefer a Conservative Govern-
ment the minority will take up arms
against it and that he will be on the side
of the revolution. In other words, if
the country rejects Socialism the brand of
Socialism he represents will come out in
its true colors —Moscow Red.
Churchill was quick to take up Bevan’s
words. He challenged Prime Minister
Attlee and his deputy, Herbert Morrison,
to repudiate “this attack on democratic
government.” The old warhorse said:
These threats have no veil. They are
naked and brutal. This is one of the most
important utterances of a Cabinet Minister
in recent times. If Mr. Attlee and Mr.
Morrison do not repudiate it they are
involved in it.
So far there has been no repudiation.
Named among a bunch of Hollywood
film people by the F. 8.1. as having been
a Communist-party member in 1947,
Frederic March declared it to be “the
most absurd thing I’ve ever heard of.”
Outside a Sydney suburban picture-show
at the week-end, March was billed as the
star in “I Stand Accused.”
A ripple of uneasiness was apparent in
the Queensland sugar country when it
became known that the British Empire
Producers’ Organisation had “held an in-
formal exchange of views on sugar
policy” because of the intention of the
British Labor Government, if returned at
the 1950 elections, “to nationalise the
sugar industry in the United Kingdom.”
The sugar men needn’t worry ; if a Labor
Government is returned to Canberra this
year we’ll all be “nationalised.”
Menzies is a most persistent nark. The
man has now reminded the public that
the increased postal and telegraphic and
telephone charges kick the bottom out of
the Chifley allegation that a “Yes”
majority in the prices referendum would
have stopped prices from rising.
In Authority and the Individual, his
latest contribution to contemporary
thought, Bertrand Russell notes the dif-
ference between the unionist’s attitude to
the good and fast worker, who must be
dragged back to the level of the slowest
man, ahd the good and fast player. Thus
a star footballer or cricketer is admired,
a star worker condemned:
The problem for the statesman is how to
get that kind of pride in craft, that com-
bative energy, that happy self-assertion
raised to higher levels and spread through
players’ work-time as well as through
workers’ playtime.
So far as Australia is concerned the
problem is how to get statesmen in place
of the politicals who hang on to office by
pandering to that depraved altitude
towards work.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INDS
“Youanmi”: I have only admiration
for that courageous woman, Mrs. G. A.
Vasey, president of the War Widows’
Guild, and the utmost sympathy for her
cause; but although the guild is un-
doubtedly right in its fight with the Re-
patriation Department, I cannot help
pointing out a certain logic in the depart-
mental reasoning. The department
stopped the pensions ©f some widows be-
cause, it alleged, they were Reading
“irregular lives” or had de facto hus-
bands, Now I don’t hold with de facto
anything, but if a Government pays pen-
sions to de facto widows, which it does,
surely it can fairly claim that a widow
who takes a de facto husband is no
longer a widow. That, of course,
is not the end of it, and one of the nastiest
features of the official view is its
assumption of the right to go snooping
into the private lives of individuals.. The
crux of the matter, however, lies in that
wretched de facto business, and demon-
strates the dangers of twisting and stretch-
ing the law to take in things that do not
come within its compass. If, in the
matter of pensions, the Government con-
cerned itself purely with those who have
“Think they've got that 'extra whiteness ’ you read about in the soap
adverts, , Harry ?”
been or are legally married it would
not run itself into such tangles. A few
might suffer and a few might take advan-
tage, but the majority would benefit. If
Mrs, Vasey holds, as I suspect she does,
that there can be no such thing as de
facto wives, widows or husbands, she is
ethically and legally unbeatable.
“Hackshaw”: Art, despite Max Harris
(B, 1/6/’49), is not a product of the un-
conscious, When an artist paints a
picture, writes a poem or models a
statue he is endeavoring to describe an
experience. His choice of subject-matter
may be unconscious. Gum-trees may
have pleasant associations for him or, if
he is a modern, dustbins, emaciated
children or slum dwellings, though, in that
case, it may be because Matisse, Cezanne
or Picasso was fond of painting such
things. But the artist will still have to
describe the feelings produced in him by
the dustbin or the gum-tree, and that must
be a conscious process. Dostoievsky was
an epileptic, and his fits were no doubt
unconsciously determined, but his de-
scriptions of them in The Idiot were
wholly conscious. When the two young
men sat down to invent Em M alley they
knew perfectly well what they were do-
ing—kidding Mr. Harris.-
* * * *
“Meekatharra”: “Barnum! Thou
shouldst be living at this hour!” I had
thought, until last week, that gipsies
had relieved so many people around
Sydney of their coin that that particular
field would be exhausted. I see now,
however, that within the space of a week
three people have been relieved of sums
totalling over £6OO. One man allowed a
gipsy woman to bless his roll and found
later that it was £llO lighter; an-
other allowed a gipsy man, posing
as a doctor, to • feel his heart, which
must have beaten a lot faster when
he discovered that £lOO had van-
ished ; a third customer handed a gipsy
woman a light while her four youngsters
“clamored around him and touched his
clothing”—the incident cost him £4OO. If
there is anyone still about who is prepared
to have his roll blessed by a gipsy I com-
mend him, and anyone else for that
matter, to a reading of George Borrow,
particularly The Gipsies of Spain. In
that delightful volume he will find illu-
minating accounts of La Bahi, Hokkano
Baro, Ustilar pastesas, and other painless
extractions. If, after reading them, he is
stiff inclined to sport his roll within sight
of a gipsy—well, I think even Bamum
would despise him.
* * ♦ *
“Bo”: Verdi’s “Falstaff,” which Syd-
ney’s enterprising Conservatorium Opera
School is producing, is one of the
miracles of music. Verdi, last of the
lineage of great Italian opera composers
which started with Monteverdi in the
early 17th century, had retired at 58 to
his farm after the production of “Aida”
in Cairo, resolved to write no more
music. He was depressed at the German
victory at Paris and disgusted with poli-
tics, in which he had long dabbled —even
at one stage indulging in a spot of gun-
running. For 16 years he cultivated his
garden; then into his life drifted Arrigo
Boito, composer of “Mephistofele.”
Boito, effeminate, unstable, transformed
Shakspeare’s “Othello” into a libretto of
amazing virility, and at 74 Verdi, in-
spired by the story, wrote music as pas-
sionate and masculine as has even been
written, and of a dramatic intensity that
is still a wonder. Six years passed, and
it required all the persuasion of Boito
and the devoted Guiseppina, Verdi’s
second wife, to urge the 80-year-old
composer to tackle Boito’s other Shak-
spearean work, “Falstaff.” The only
other comic-opera Verdi had attempted,
53 years before, had been a failure. But
Verdi finished “Falstaff,” a score which
scintillates with fresh, clear music, the
orchestration being as brilliant as any-
thing he had dope half a century before.
* * * *
“Hyanlo”: In the easygoing atmos-
phere of my hometown I am used to
going into a shop, asking for a pair of
shoes and being told to “Try these for
size.” But the Big Smoke has a differ-
“Excuse me! My name is Featherstone, may I help you ?”
ent way. I was overawed to start with
by the carnationed floorwalker who, with
a flick of his fingers, summoned a
minion to attend my wants. This gentle-
man informed me that he had a shipment
of American footwear made on 20 differ-
ent lasts in 32 fractional fittings to suit
the length, breadth, depth and possible
character of any foot that walked. Reel-
ing from that verbal onslaught I allowed
my feet to be placed first in an X-ray
machine and then on a “Pedoscope”
while the salesman consulted slide-rules
and charts and finally brought me the
shoe. It didn’t fit, and with what
strength I had left, I said so. Back
through the X-ray, pedoscope, charts, etc.
Same shoe. Same answer. The sales-
man was getting very worried now, and,
furtively looking to see if the floorwalker
was watching, he slipped me a pair of a
different make and whispered “Here,
mate ; try these for size.”
*F
“Gravelsnatcher”: In Germany, where
they take their civil servants seriously, a
chap is reported to have been fined for
calling a mayor a liar, a crook and a
lump of lard. It could be, and it’s
probable that the final term was the most
insulting. Australian p.-0.-w. drafted to
farm labor in Bavaria quickly discovered
that the greatest insult that could be
offered to a peasant was contained in
the word loomph—spelt as pronounced—
meaning dishcloth. Directed at a woman,
that insult was deadly. Why I haven’t
the faintest idea. I suspect that the part
about the lard was substituted by a fas-
tidious censor. And if the chap called
the mayor a loomph and got off with a
fine he was lucky. He might have been
hanged.
* * * *
“P.0.M.C.”; Melbourne’s models must
be a bunch of tyros if the threatened
ban on radiators caused consternation in
their camp (B, 1/6/’49). Consider this,
culled from a well-known text-book on
drawing: “If you are working from the
nude, wear thin things and make the
room as warm as you can, in common
charity to your sitter. Professional
models, of course, feel the cold much
less than amateurs.”
* * * *
“Ray Whiting”: Much of the finest
pot-tossing in the Middle East was per-
formed nightly at the Naafi canteen
in Tripoli (Syria), where we were more
or less luxuriously waited on by Wog
waiters. Oft-times a couple of the troops
with a few over the 18 would debouch
in search of adventure per Wog taxi.
As the crate rolled off, flyblown but
sinewy shadows would clamp on to the
rear bumper until the driver stopped in
a suitably murky alley, when our bosky
lads would be done over in the black-
ness and left bashed, clawed and robbed
in the gutter. This was becoming a bit
too hot, so a pair of gunners decided on
corrective measures. Reeling from the
canteen with a wenching song, the appa-
rently plastered drop-shorts bawled for
a taxi and ordered the driver to take
them to a notorious seraglio by the sea.
Sure enough they were whizzed into the
usual side-street and the game was on,
but what happened to those thugs was
nobody’s business. The sun rose on three
Wogs hanging by the seats of their baggy
pants from a high iron-spiked fence.
« * * *
“Zake”: Those who rushed in when
Joe allegedly lifted the Berlin blockade
with the suggestion that this would be
the prelude to better relations between
East and West were amateurs in optimism
compared with the Sydney butcher who
recently forecast that within two years
housewives would be buying all their
meat neatly put up in cartons. The
housewife may be persuaded to pay four
guineas for a wisp of tulle strung on two-
bob’s-worth of wire and called a hat;
she may offer forthright criticism of the
price, but will eventually fall for the
simply-ravishing pair of studded platform-
soleds at 695. lid.; but she will not be
sufficiently a mug to buy meat she can’t
see. It would need only one experience
of buying a pound of cartoned chuck-
steak which turned out to be half fat and
gristle to settle for ever any hope of
success of the pre-packed meat idea.
* * * *
“Yipe”: Scorfield’s cartoon of Mercury
staggering under the weight of Post-
master-General Cameron (B. 8/6/’49)
made me wonder whether the post-office
is any longer entitled to regard the mes-
senger of the gods as its appropriate
emblem. Mercury is surely symbolic of
speedy message-bearing, and no one who
has had the experience of reaching a
place a couple of hours in advance of a
telegram sent to advise his intended
arrival would concede the P.M.G. many
points for speed. I mentioned this point
to a friend who was complaining of the
impending rise in telephone and telegraph
costs. He didn’t agree with me. “It’s
quite appropriate,” he said. “Besides
being a messenger. Mercury was the
patron of shepherds, travellers, merchants
and robbers.”
*** * .
“Brolga”: A new Australian I know
has managed to collect more dents in his
new car in a few weeks than most drivers
get in years. I gave him a lift the other
day. We had to cross a busy intersection
where normally there is a traffic-cop on
duty, but this morning it was unattended.
When I pulled up to await a chance to
cross over the N.A. said “Tell me: When
there is not the policeman here, is it not
fair go for everyone? The first come
the first served?” I explained that the
man on the right had right of way, and
as I saw the puzzled look in his eyes I
was able to imagine the abuse he must
have copped in his short career as a
driver.
* * * #
“Phildee”: I don’t understand what
peculiar fascination it is that keeps these
pole-sitters up the pole, but I am vastly
amused by the predicament of one ex-
ponent of the profession in Cleveland
(U.S.A.). He took up his perch when
the Cleveland Indians were seven games
behind in the American Baseball League
and announced his intention of remain-
ing there, despite police orders to come
down, until the team had gained first
place. The team is now 9\ games be-
hind. If the performer remains ob-
durate the team or the police will have
do do something pretty desperate.
A PLEA FOR DELIVERANCE.
O Lord, deliver us from these afflictions
That day by day we suffer or await,
These electricity and gas restrictions,
These blackouts growing more severe of late,
Likewise these periodic maledictions
Which “Labor” launches at the Fourth
Estate.
From all such plagues we surely need a spell
To render life a bit more liveable.
Deliver us from crooks who haunt our courses,
Those scenes where furtive roguery abounds,
From miscreants who dope the hapless horses
And toughs who tamper with the trusty
hounds.
Are there, it may be asked, no guardian forces
To deal with such delinquencies—no grounds
For teaching those about such schemes who set
Something they will not readily forget?
Deliver us from bards who scout convention
And cherish the illusion that they can
Base an appeal for popular attention
On poems that will neither rhyme nor scan,
Stanzas whose meaning beats the comprehension
Of almost- any ordinary man.
Free verse they call it, and in truth it’s free
Of anything resembling poetry.
Deliver us from ever-soaring prices
For any mortal thing you wish to buy,
From shirts to mutton chops, from coal to ices,
From cigarettes to haberdashery.
From every fresh inflationary crisis
We’re regularly faced With, you and I,
Who can’t unfortunately raise our screws
By the brisk methods politicians use.
Deliver us from hasty utterances
That knaves may twist to make a trap for
fools,
From blatant Communists whose fondest fancies
Centre on making unionists their tools,
From rabbits devastating wide expanses
Of squatters’ holding, and from football
pools.
And one last item that I’d very near
Forgot—the scarcity of bottled beer.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


G£smt Amp,
ILBEYS
M
m
m
m
s.
&
s>
&
&
ft
:>
-ev&iy, aceoAwn
»fiiss J
NINTIIT TO-MORROW
emi -for
SECURITY/
with
5Sf
J
v_
V /
■3*^
'
m m
1.186
FROM
CHEMISTS
EVERYWHERE
SHAVIN6 CREAM
' yy
An investment In cool, carefree shaving
brings contentment tomorrow, the day after,
and ad infinitum. 2/- invested in a jar of
Concentrated Ingram’s gives you 4 months
of happy shaving, a cool, smooth face, and
renewed shaving courage. Ingram's is a world
renowned stubble-slayer used by a million and
more shrewd shavers in Australia today. Start
shaving the Ingram's way by sending the
coupon for 7 free shaves on Ingram's today,
r^.
y>):fs//AvesF,Vee
'ram's
*
i*7i
itei
mzAiommr
i**. ivmty
NAME
ADDRESS
c 0° v fjj'
Bristol Myers Co. Pty. Ltd.,
223 Pacific Highway, North Sydney, N.S.W.
“Sing 9”: In the general uproar follow-
ing the High Court decision on petrol-
rationing, little or nothing was said of
the man responsible. He’s William
Cheyne Gall, garageman of Stone’s
Corner, a Brisbane suburb. Earlier this
year he was prosecuted for having ob-
tained about 200 gallons of petrol “other-
wise than in accordance with the regula-
tions,” and agreed to allow the Automo-
tive Chamber of Commerce to use the
case as a challenge to the petrol-rationing
power of the Commonwealth. It was
the Commonwealth which took the case
to the High Court, where it was heard in
April, judgment being reserved until last
week. What a lot of people are asking
now is why somebody with gall (pardon
me) hadn’t challenged the regulation be-
fore. A Balmain firm intended to do so,
but agreed to withhold proceedings until
judgment was given in Gall’s case. Mr.
Gall’s name should go into the records
as one who regained for us another of
those freedoms which the Government
chaps took for war purposes and appar-
ently intend to hang on to until forced
by law to give them back.
* * * *
“Clooter”: He gave me a lift to town.
“Just got back from a trip round the
world,” he said. “England and America.
Boy, oh boy! What a time! In Singapore
me and the mate got hold of a snake-
charmer and filled him with whisky round
the back o’ Raffles’ pub. Left him on
the ground with his basket of snakes.
When we got back all the snakes was
goin’ him. We was dead scared till we
realised they all had their fangs out.
Boy, oh boy! Did the snakes go him!
Reckon he’d belted ’em about so they
was mad with joy to catch him boozed.
I never reckoned a snake could laugh,
but there was one scaly old feller sidin'
back laughin’ his head off because he was
gettin’ even. England? Give y’ the
willies. They’re up against it. We got
the strato-cruiser to New York. Just
before we got aboard an Englishman said
‘Australians, are you? You should get
on well in America, You and they are
both scum.’ O’ course, my mate hit him,
and it cost us sixty quid in fines and costs.
America? Boy, oh boy! Is there a de-
pression coming! Listen, we saw well-
dressed blokes in the bread-lines, out o’
work. I’m not kiddin’, their suits hadn’t
had time to get seedy. Boy, oh boy! Was
we glad to get back!” He dropped me
near the G.P.O.
* * * *
“Melbn”: Wharf officials at Port Mel-
bourne thought they were hearing things
the other morning. A dense fog en-
veloped the bay, out of which no vessels
were expected. Suddenly angel voices
with a slight foreign accent were heard
“Say when!”
singing “It’s a Long Way to Tipperary.”
The eerie sound grew louder till a dim
shape showed through the haze. The
singers were the children of d.p. migrants
who had been taught English on the way
from Naples, and the ship was the new
12,300-ton Norwegian Skaugam. All
other vessels had anchored, but the
Skaugam steamed through the Heads and
up the bay, and, although she saw other
ships on her radar screen, she was never
in danger of collision. It was Port
Phillip’s first completely satisfactory de-
monstration of the efficacy of radar.
* * * #
“0.5.H.R.”: The million-to-one chance
occurred in our suburb. The hearse in
a funeral had just topped a rise on the
way to the cemetery when the leading
mourning-coach suffered a blow-out. The
hearse was run to the roadside and left
while its crew went back to assist with
the mourning-coach. A hundred yards
downhill from the hearse a new car was
parked beside the kerb on the opposite
side. As the men busied themselves with
the mourning-coach they heard a crash,
and an excited person on the footpath
yelled at them. The hearse had slipped
its brakes, careered down the hill, veered
, across the road and only the new car
prevented it from diving into somebody’s
front garden. Haven’t heard what the
car-owner said when he found it de-
corated with a hearse, sundry wreaths and
more than several dents and abrasions.
* * *
“Pitt St,”; My desk-calendar makes it
734 years ago today that Magna Charta
was sealed at Runnymede. Then the row
was between a king and his barons, today
it is one between the people and the
bureaucrats, and it seems fitting that the
petrol-rationing case should be decided
in favor of the people of Australia in
the month of Magna Charta and by the
law which imposes necessary strictures
on elected persons and their officials.
* * * *
“Bosun’s Mate”: That telescope
Dubois fixed under the starb’d wing of
Sydney’s Captain Dowling (B. 8/6/’49)
has more purpose than muscle-contract-
ing—as one cox’n of a cruiser’s pinnace
can vouch. Captains, commanders and
officers of the watch of anything larger
than a destroyer carry a glass when on
deck. A pinnace of liberty-men shoved
off from the gangway, and, when a mile
from ship and authority, the cox’n looked
astern, judged his distance, and magnani-
mously conceded: “All right, blokes,
carry on smoking.” On return to the ship
he noticed the Old Man on the quarter-
deck, made a perfect come-alongside, and,
after a moment’s furious thought had con-
vinced him that none of his past misdeeds
could have been found out, answered) the
captain’s summons with confidence. He
left the brief interview like a wet rag,
with his presence required on board for
the next seven days, and full of hate for
the prettily coach-whipped tube whose
properties until then he’d thought were
purely ornamental.
“Flathead”: Our suburb’s leading
Comrade was putting great feeling into
his slogan for the day: “Don't scab, sup-
port your militant unionists.” One of
his audience interjected that he’d seen
those very words written in what he con-
sidered a very appropriate place—“On
the wall of the drain going through the
park.” The speaker corrected him. It
was not a drain. It was a storm-water
channel.
* * * *
“Domino”: I have heard many excuses
for leaving the missus at home to look
after the kids, but a new one came
through my side fence last Saturday.
Apparently my neighbor had decided to
take himself out alone. His wife, whom I
could not hear, must have suggested that
she accompany him. Plaintively came
his reply, “Aw, Mum, if I take you out
I’ll have to shave. If I go on my own, I
won’t.”
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: Sir Frederick Baden-
Powell Hay, the Melbourne grocer whom
Burke’s Peerage has admitted to its
sacred pages, has now definitely been
established as the descendant of a British
monarch. Through distaff succession, he
is related to Henry VII, who, as the Duke
of Richmond, defeated and slew Laurence
Olivier several times in Australian
capitals last year. Unperturbed, Sir
Frederick still dispenses tea and sugar
to awed housewives at his grocery in St.
George’s-road, Northcote.
*■* * *
“Earlydays”: A hundred years ago a
carpenter’s wages may have been a mere
16s. a week (B. 25/5/’49), but by 1852,
if you could capture a carpenter, his
wage was more like 30s. a day. Ships
and jobs were deserted with the rush to
the new Eldorado. To quote an old
newspaper; “In the matter of dress the
wife of the meanest laborer could only
be distinguished from a lady in the upper
classes of society by the vulgar taste dis-
played in her rich and expensive adom-
ings,”
* * * *
“Oliver Filter”: Having the greatest
respect for the patient omnipotence of
the law, I report this incident not in
any spirit of criticism but merely as an
example of relative values. The other
evening I assisted a neighbor to look for
his seven-year-old daughter who had
gone out during the afternoon and had
not returned well after dark. We drove
from one house to another where she
was accustomed to play, and, not finding
her, finally headed for the police-station,
where a sergeant and three other mem-
bers of the force took particulars from
the very worried father. “All right,”
said the sergeant. “Now if you find her,
or if she comes home, let us know
straight away. Not half an hour after-
wards, or even five minutes afterwards,
but immediately—a lot of things can
happen in five minutes.” Suitably im-
pressed, the father promised; then, as
he turned to leave, the sergeant dropped
a friendly arm on his shoulder: “And
don’t worry. Just as soon as we’ve all
had a bite to eat we’ll start looking for
her.”
TWO DAYS.
Voter, give ear! Before the next election
You’ll have, by grace of Jim McGirr and Co.,
Two days for calm, dispassionate reflection
About the way you’d have your suffrage go.
Two days your thinking faculties to focus
On all the information that you’ve got
And to decide how much was hocus-pocus
And just how much was not.
No raucous voices, wild with exhortation
From hustings, will discordantly arise
To cut the current of your cogitation,
No biased leaders catch and hold your eyes.
You’ll feel —or that, I guess, is the requirement—
Much like a jury, clear of Bench and Bar,
Considering its verdict in retirement,
As actually you are.
You’ll weigh, or anyhow you’ll have a chance
to,
All that you’ve heard or read or seen discussed
To fix which party tune you ought to $ance to,
In whom you’ll place, or from whom take,
your trust.
From your own heart you will be counsel
seeking
On how ’twill profit you to cast your vote
And settle whether —in a manner of speaking—
You’ll be a sheep or goat.
Two days for quite unhindered meditation,
Deep reverie and pondering intense!
Well, well! Whatever prompts the innovation
I doubt if it will make much difference.
Two days will hardly serve for the effacements
Of bitter memories long kept in store
Or temper the opinions and appraisements
Formed in two years and more.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Solitude”: “Punch’s stumblin’ a lot
lately,” Seventyfiver remarked the other
evening. “Gettin’ too old for rough
work.” “Oh, he’s not so very old,” I re-
plied. “Too right he is. He’s been
climbin’ them rough hills for the last
ten years solid, an’ he’s earned a spell,”
declared the old bloke, “Poor old cow’s
crackin’ up.” “But, hang it, he’s not that
old.” “He is, I tell y’. Gripes, Sandy
had him before me. Anyway, I’ve turned
him out an’ I’m goin’ into the horse-sale
‘ t’morrer to buy another hack, even if I
got t’ pay ten quid for it.” The follow-
ing day he picked out a couple of likely-
looking nags in the yards, made a few
discreet inquiries from blokes who knew
them, and draped himself on the fence
near by. Bidding on his first choice
started at twenty pounds and rose rapidly
to forty. The old bloke scratched his
poll and moved on. The second opened
at twenty-five and went even higher.
Speechless, Seventyfiver eyed the pens of
broken-down crocks that remained. Next
morning I came on him leading Punch
into the yard. Without a word he spread
a folded chaffbag over his withers and
slung on the saddle. “A nag that’s been
climbing those rough hills for the last
ten years solid,” I remarked largely to
old Blue, “has earned a spell. Poor old
cow’s crackin’ up.” “Aw, cut it out,
Sol,” came the familiar snort. “Gripes,
he ain’t that old.”
* * * #
“Mat’s Mate”: We’d been working on
the place about a week, and one day we
saw a cove ride to the homestead on a
bike. The boss went off to see what he
wanted, and presently, though we couldn’t
hear what was being said, we could tell
by the waving arms and loud voices that
some sort of a row was on. The cove
rode off on his bike and the boss came
back, looking black. “One of them
blasted A.W.U. organisers,” he said.
“Won’t have flamin’ unions on this place ;
"Aou'll get yours in a minute , dear.”
told him off pretty quick.” He looked at
us darkly, and I felt the A.W.U. ticket
m my hip-pocket as though it were a
nek. Mat looked hard at the boss, but
zJS? 1 any J ““JS- The boss was paying
wen and he hadn t said anything about
so w ? lay low - About a week
thl rwf 1 was down at the road-gate for
ini {AS? uT W n!f e were pjunt-
rLr n,fii he^ r °f 0 f S e . boss and i saw
and ih? U P ‘ * Mat talk w to the driver
and the car went away. Mat came back,
“Blasted union organiser,” he said.
“Knew you wouldn’t have ’em on the
place, Boss, an’ told him to get.” We
painted a while, and the boss said “Was
he A.W.U., Mat?” “No,” Mat said.
“Farmers and Settlers’ Association.” The
silence thereafter was long and deep.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: Those fencers who
spent hours lighting a fire “blackfella-
fashion” (B, 4/5/’49) could have learnt
much from a Cingalese carpenter whom
I saw boring holes in wood. His equip-
ment was a bow with the cord loose
enough to pass once around the auger,
A to-and-fro movement of the bow
rotated the auger, which was simply a
pointed steel, not spiralled as ours are.
Substitute a pointed stick for the steel
and you have the makings of a quick
fire —a fact discovered by simple savages
hundreds of years ago.
* * * *
“Kelms”: Advocating the establish-
ment of goat-stations as an answer to
the world meat shortage, a correspondent
to a Westralian daily cites an area of
between six and 10 million acres which
is unsuitable for sheep-raising but on
which goats would thrive. It sounds
possible to me, provided some agricul-
tural method was used to supplement the
natural grasses. Goats will fatten on
poor country, but the notion that they’ll
live on jam-tin labels belongs to fiction.
At the same time, they’re harder doers
than cattle, and half their food doesn’t
go to making fleeces. The meat is tasty
—you can’t beat kid, and lamb’s fry isn’t
a patch on the same dish from a kid—
whilst the beast satisfies the Biblical in-
junction regarding the cloven hoof.
They’d have an effect on the rabbit
menace, too. Ground that a goat has
covered wouldn’t carry a rabbit.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Had a job locating
a bluetongue lizard —they’ve settled
down for the winter’s snooze —but the
bloke I disturbed still looked capable of
amputating a finger. I didn’t say it
could, “Naturala” (B. 11/5/’49), but if
you want confirmation of how vicious
the thing can appear introduce one to
a stranger. While he’s stooping to ex-
amine it poke a stick at its snout. If
that fellow doesn’t break the record for
the backwards jump from a standing
start he should seek medical advice.
“N,” has obviously grown accustotned
to bluey, and knows the harmless old
fraud for what he is. But he still looks
bad, and he’ll fight, with pathetic futility,
anything that threatens him. Since
“Naturala” has never seen him raiding
nests of eggs, I must conclude that he
has never kept chooks where bluetongues
abound. A familiar sight to me is my
neighbor’s wife, axe-armed, rushing to
the poultry-runs to investigate the
cackling clamor. Almost invariably it’s
a bluetongue that goes west.
* * * *
“C.A.”: Gerry propped himself com-
fortably on the fence as the auctioneer
got round to the small pen of fats he
was offering. “Twenty-nine-an y -eleven,
thirty bob . . . Come on, you blokes.
Thirty bob . . . What about it, Gerry?”
Gerry shook his head, “Want thirty-
five,” he announced. The fats were
passed in. After the sale the losing
bidder called Gerry into the bar and
offered thirty-three shillings. Gerry sat
on thirty-five. Followed several more
rounds, then, “Thirty-four, and that’s my
last,” the bidder declarer*. “Gripes,
there’s only twenty of ’em, Gerry, and
if y’ don’t take it, you’ve got to drive ’em
fifteen md es home again, don’t f’rget.”
“ The ki d of O’Reilly’s ’ll take ’em home
f’r me for a quid,” Gerry defended
And there’s another sale next week.”
Offers the following week showed no
advance, and once more the O’Reilly kid
earned a quid, while Gerry sought the
transport bloke and learned he would
take the fats to Marketown in a few days
for three bob a head. Gerry went with
the stock, booked in overnight at the pub
and waited to see them sold. “What’d
they make?” a neighbor asked, on his
return. “Thirty-five,” came the reply,
with a self-satisfied grin. “Told y’ a
“Seems all wrong io me, somehow."
man c’n get their full value if he works
it shrewd enough.”
* * * *
“Mollusc”; The spermatozoa of oysters
are produced in a fine white cloud; this
contains countless embryo bivalves, which
drift with the tide and at the mercy of
everything from mullet down to prawns
and the smaller fry. It is not till the shell
has grown and given it sufficient weight
that the tiny oyster sinks, to settle, if its
luck is in, on some rock. Only a micro-
scopic proportion of the spawn reaches
maturity—which is just as well, otherwise
the seaboards would be stiff with them.
It is not till it is five years old that the
oyster can flex its muscles with the con-
fident feeling it can take on all-comers at
all weights. At 10 the slippery one has
lived its egg-producing life, and at 12 it
takes to the submarine bathchair and to
drooling to oysterlets about the better
tides they had when he was young.
* * * *
“Betcha”: The carrier in the old
dogger’s rabbit pack is a big black grey-
hound, best runner in the mob, and
though he has caught hundreds of rab-
bits in his time he has never been seen
by the old bloke to kill one. He favors
a leg-grip, and, snapping up the rabbit by
a hind-runner, immediately returns it—if
Brer is the quiet type—to have its neck
stretched. If Brer squeals nicely. Darkle
dashes triumphantly through the pack a
few times, skilfully evading the grabs at
his dangling prize. When rabbits were
less numerous and skins a good price, the
old bloke was glad to receive bunny with
his skin unmauled; but times have
changed. Now, before Darkie can de-
liver his catch, another rabbit crosses his
path and, loaded up, he gives chase. He
drops No. 1, snatches up No. 2 and sets
out after No. 1 again. His threatening
growl keeps the other dogs off the
catch, and the old bloke was won-
dering if the whole day would be
spent on two half-grown rabbits when the
big runner solved the problem himself.
Groggy from its shaking, one rabbit
failed to take off quickly enough, and
the greyhound got a paw on it. He spent
some time juggling the pair, but eventu-
ally picked them both up by a pinch of
skin and carried them back. His boss is
still talking about it.
* * * *
“Carlyle”: In our Victorian district
mushrooms grow best in rich, unculti-
vated paddocks where there are bulloak-
trees, and until the other day I thought
the explanation simple; that fallen
leaves provided the rich humus and the
trees the shelter from frosts. Since then
I have found that mushrooms do not
grow under the bulloaks but in a wide
circular belt some 6ft. wide around the
perimeter of the tree, where leaves are
scarce. Nor was there anything to dis-
tinguish this belt from the rest of the
terrain where there were no bulloaks and
no mushrooms. Any explanation?
* * * ♦
“Old-timer”: I’ve seen pretty well
everything to be seen in the bush, had a
crack at pretty well everything bushmen
do. I’ve seen men and horses broken in,
and newchums, too, and some that were
never broken in. I’ve seen dogs trained
for all sorts of work by all sorts ol
trainers, and I knew Harry Pedrana, who
used to train cockatoos to talk and per-
form acrobatic tricks, and then hawk
them through the country and get up to
a fiver apiece for them. From Gippsland
to Cunnamulla, from the continent’s east
coast to Marree, down in the Mt. Gambier
country and up along the Barwon and
among the New England snows I’ve run
into men and boys training anything from
young elephants to white mice. Trained
carpet snakes and educated fish ar
nothing to me, and I once knew a cat tha
had learned to chew —and appreciate—
tobacco. But search as I might anc
inquire wheresoever I could, one traine
eluded me, and now it seems that I wii
never find him, for his need is ended anc
the service his trained beasts performec
is one with the past. Has any member o
the Council ever run into the man or men
who trained bullocks for the old-time
teams?
* * * *
“Angasta”: Living only 25 miles from
the bush doctor I’d always felt sure —since
I, too, had learnt to drive the old bus —
that one of us would get t’other to
the quack in time for a dose of antidote
if necessary. But a chat one day with
the medico himself dispelled the illusion
“That stuff goes off very quickly,” he
told us, “I never keep it. Never had
call for it yet, either.” The pastime ol
catching snakes for our city museum is
not so popular in these parts today.
* * ♦ *
“B. A. Ker”: “There are no fish in
this river, anyhow,” I told my self-con-
ceit, and was disconsolately packing up
the gear when I saw it: an outsize ip
red-and-white floats cruising down-
stream at a speed that left the tide-borne
pine-needles far behind. I don’t know
whether I bayed, but no hound could
have been on the job quicker. Falling
over sticks, dodging swamp-oaks, crash-
ing through scrub, I raced along the
bank, reassembling the rod en route.
Then I was ahead, with the float coming
towards me. In my excitement I stepped
off the bank and went down to the thigh
in cold water and oozy mud. But the
rod tip was beneath that float. For a
second I thrilled to the feel of a heavy
weight But only for a second; sud-
denly the painted cork went down com-
pletely out of sight. Twenty feet away
it reappeared, heading upstream. Nearly
20 minutes later, in an exhausted con-
dition, I leaned against a tree and
watched the float bob up yet again, this
time in midstream. At that moment a
rowing-boat turned the bend. The girl
steering saw it first and gave the “View
hullo! ” Instantly the chase was on
again, the two youths sculling like mad-
men and the girl doing the steering and
grabbing. Up and down the river the
race alternated, with the girl and I
nearly bursting blood-vessels with
laughter, and the rowers doing the same
with exhaustion. Defeated, the two
youths were panting across their oars
when two boys in a canoe arrived.
Quickly the lads took in the position.
More manoeuvrable, their craft swept
alongside. The boy in the prow grabbed
—and caught a handful of water. For
a quarter of an hour the pair carried
on the relay-race before resorting to low
cunning: getting up a good speed, they
shipped the paddles and drifted to the
cruising float. There was a tense second,
then both grabbed together. Canoes
aren’t built for that sort of thing.. Over
she went. And as the boat stood by to
rescue survivors the float, with whatever
was underneath it, went cruising serenely
on its interrupted journey.
SNOWY RIVER.
Riding maybe to a muster
Four or five of us in line,
Up would dash some lagging thruster
Shouting, “Race you to that pine!”
And his challenge he’d deliver
As he stole a length of lead:
“One more run for Snowy River!”
And the race was on indeed.
Horses roused from sleepy paces
Sprang into their perfect stride;
Smiles lit up the sunburnt faces
As we settled down to ride.
’Twas a call to make one quiver
With excitement as one heard
“One more run for Snowy River!”
And we quickened at the word.
“Banjo” rides the course no longer,
And his singing days are done,
But the horseman’s heart beats stronger
For his rousing “ One more run!”
Echoes that will ring for ever
Wake again that old refrain:
“One more run for Snowy River!”
And I clutch a dangling rein.
SCOTLAND.
WILL H. OGILVIE.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACKSOJT&Ti
OSMIMVAv f
»W*s
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
"Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS * OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPH IC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
•TEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS ! : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
•jACKSUL.” BRISBANE
Special Offer/
GEM
RAZOR
WITH
Double Life
GEM Blades
Obtainable Everywhere ,
COMPLETE
3'-
WITH 2 BLADES
IN NEAT PLASTIC
. CASE <
mk
ITS THE WEIGHT BEHIND THE EDGE THAT
GIVES SMOOTHER, EASIER SHAVES
my
MitaV^ev
Our feminine customers
complained that the men-
folk were continually
"borrowing” their
Napro Hair Vitalizer,
and asked us to do
something about it.
Well, we have. We’re
now making a special
Napro Hair Vitalizer
for men. Like the
original product, it will
keep the scalp clean and
healthy and the hair
elastic and vigorous. But
it also has certain added ingredients that enable
it to be used as a hair dressing that will keep
the hair perfectly groomed without that patent
leather” look. Start using Napro Hair Vitalizer
to-day and notice the difference it makes—right
from the start.
AVAILABLE AT ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES
NAPRO
HAIR VITALIZER FOR MW
A
pa
*4/
M 2!
h
\
National Chemical Products Pty. Ltd.
247 Liverpool Street, Sydney
“E,”: Mooching into the township on
Sunday morning, with old Darkie close
on his heels, Bob got caught in the
gathering just leaving the church. “Oh —
er —g’day, Parson,” Bob greeted, as the
religious bloke fell in alongside. “Keep-
in’ dry, eh?” In the centre of the group
Bob chatted idly till they reached the
cross-roads ; then someone drew attention
to his dog, left behind a chain or so up
the road. It seemed to be circling in a
vague sort of way, getting himself no-
where. “Yes, the poor old chap’s gone
blind,” Bob explained politely. “Has to
depend on his nose and ears nowadays,
and he has lost me in the crowd. Here,
Darkie, come on.” The dog still wan-
dered uncertainly in all directions. “Come
on, old boy. Good dog,” his boss per-
sisted ; but the dog flopped in his tracks
and began to whimper. Bob let him stay,
continued his chat with the parson for
a few minutes, then farewelled the gather-
ing up the side road. With them all safely
out of earshot he turned back to Darkie.
“Aw, c’mere, y’ silly flamin’ cow,” he
bawled. “Whatin’ell’s the blasted matter
with y’?” There was an immediate grin
of recognition on the mong and, wagging
his rudder delightedly, he promptly
arrived.
* * * *
“Ceg”: Our old friend “Bellerive,”
who “did closely gaze at the Australian
Emu” (B. 25/5/’49), should have been
with me on a recent trip through the
Grampians (Vic.). In Hall’s Gap both
kangaroos and emus are increasing: they
seem to prefer to stay around the more
settled parts of the mountains instead of
favoring the more isolated parts. Per-
haps the emus’ innate curiosity has some-
thing to do with it. Anyway, around the
settlement are rabbit-traps, and the emu’s
“alert and active sharp brown eyes,” to
quote our bard again, do not save him
or her from putting a foot on them. We
came across one half-grown bird well
held by the big toe, and despite all its
efforts the trap held it. Just as well,
perhaps, as had the stake come out the
emu would have had the trap on its foot
for life. As it was, we went up to the
bird and, despite its being “a giant
fearless arid strong,” released the spring,
and the big bird went charging off to
rejoin the rest of the flock, which was
grazing near by. Incidentally, it had been
making most piteous cries as it tried to
release itself, but the cry was out of all
proportion to the size of the bird; more
suited to something the size of a sparrow.
* * * *
“Pedant”: The smell of burnt fat will
always attract blowflies —and that, my
chemistry text-book tells me, happens
when gelignite or dynamite explodes (B.
28/5/’49); fat burns, producing con-
centrated acrolein. Dynamite starts as
glycerine, a derivative of animal fat.
Acted upon by a mixture of sulphuric
and nitric acids, such glycerine becomes
nitroglycerine: a complex substance com-
posed of carbon, nitrogen and
oxygen very delicately balanced from
a molecular standpoint, and liable to de-
compose with great violence on being
subjected to percussion, such decompo-
sition being a form of burning which
liberates, among other gases, a noticeable
"Now one for the road.”
quantity of acrolein. Further, acrolein
itself is a substance closely allied to
alcohol; so, after practically boxing the
chemical compass with regard to gly-
cerine, you get back almost to the Demon
—and so have the picture of blowflies
hastening to the scene to absorb a few
whiffs of the stagger stuff before it de-
composes, as it does very quickly when
exposed to oxygen. Oxidised acrolein be-
comes acrylic acid, much akin to acetic
acid, which, as everybody knows, is
formed when good palatable alcohol,
such as beer, is allowed to oxidise into
vinegar.
* * *
“Lud Ford”: Tell “Homeless Alby”
(B. 18/5/’49) that the law against dig-
ging out sand from Perth suburban lots
had sound reason for its passage. A
neighbor at Victoria Park returned to
his home, which had been let for two
years, to find a hole 10ft. deep and 30ft,
wide in his backyard. Go-operation
with the dustman filled it in six months.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: While an all-
time-record fox plague is ravaging most
of Victoria (organised drives are killing
60 and 80 a night), in the gum-shaded
Tambo Valley in East Gippsland a form
of mange is killing the pests out —there
are not a quarter of the number of foxes
along the Tambo River that there were
10 years ago. There’s one trap in it
though. If a dog tackles a bushy-tail
he contracts the infection, and if he is
not treated quickly he dies, too. Lately
the fox mange has spread to the Omeo
, high plains, where 50 per cent, of the
foxes are diseased.
* * * *
“Bo”: The long-standing feud between
Donovan and Reidy had flared up again
with a successful court case by Reidy
over the matter of a fine stand of iron-
barks which had for long been mutually
accepted as part of their border fence.
Then one afternoon Reidy went to his
roadside mailbox and found therein a
neatly-tied bundle of feathers accom-
panied by a note from Donovan saying
he was returning his [Reidy’s] property,
the immediate owner of the feathers hav-
ing unfortunately flown right out of them
in its endeavor to get away at top speed
on being disturbed while ravaging
Donovan’s lettuce-patch. Reidy ground
his teeth, and shortly afterwards spent
some time down near the fence by his
lucerne-patch. The next day Donovan,
going to his mailbox, saw a freshly-
skinned hide hanging over his fence. A
note was in his mailbox, from Reidy,
stating that, going down to his lucerne-
paddock that morning, he had come upon
his [Donovan’s] bull having a snack. In-
advertently he had sneezed, giving the bull
such a fright he had jumped clean out
of his skin ; which he now returned, it
now being of no further use to its late
wearer.
* * * *
“Den”: At Rockhampton (Q.) old-
timers on the land are spending most of
their leisure hours marvelling at the
break of luck which came the way of the
British Food Project at Peak Downs.
Though there was an initial wait for
sowing of grain sorghum to begin, the
right amount of rain fell to let the heavy
equipment get over the black soil (too
much would have ruined the planting);
the seed was scarcely in the ground be-
fore the wettest wet season for many
years gave the sorghum such a start that
it almost jumped out of the ground. The
old-timers have no grudge against the
Food Corporation for its lucky break
(they’re sharing in it, too), but they con-
tend that the project’s first sorghum sea-
son, if the luck holds, will show out with
a marvellous profit and with no back-lag
of bad-season losses to offset against it.
By the same token they give a warning
that a huge success in the first season may
be paid for dearly later on, when the run
of poor-to-bad seasons begins; they say
the Food Project authorities must take
care not to base too many estimates on
the success of a crop grown under the in-
fluence of cyclonic rains which may not
recur so opportunely for decades. There
has been a certain amount of criticism
of the Food Project for buying into the
Peak Downs countryside, where it has
been claimed that the average run of
seasons is all against successful or profit-
able sorghum-growing. Results this year
will probably close the mouths of the
critics —but the hardheads around Rock-
hampton are prepared to wait up to five
years before making up their minds.
* * * *
“Ymar”: Fish can prove fatal as diet
to more than cormorants (B. 11/5/’49).
A neighbor’s son, angling in the dam,
caught a small fish which he tossed into
the near-by pigsty. The sow which
promptly bolted it was almost as
promptly a corpse.
* * * *
“S.E.”: The drovers had been hard
put to it all morning trying to draft a
big mob of sheep in the saleyards be-
hind the pub. Stringing them through.
Bruiser glanced up as the jumbucks
banked ahead. “Who’s the goat in the
white shirt parked against the race?” he
snorted sourly. “Visitor from the pub,”
answered Herb. “Lookin’ on. I’ve
moved the cow back a dozen times, but
it don’t do much good.” Again he
shifted the onlooker and the work pro-
ceeded. “Now look at that gawking
nitwit in the gateway,” growled Bruiser
once more, pointing to another spec-
tator. “And that nuisance in the red
sweater, right in the flamin’ lane. Gripes,
ain’t they got no sense? Looks like
we’ll have t’ belt ’em up t’ get rid of ’em,
unless... Gripes, yair, there is another
way. Wait on.” He strode towards the
visitors with a friendly grin. “Int’rested
in sheep?” he inquired. “Y’re lucky
strikin’ us t’day. We’ll show y’ all about
’em. Now you,” he turned to White-
shirt, “go back with the mong there, will
y’, an’ keep that mob in close. You can
mind that bunch out on the road,” he
told Red-sweater. “Don’t let any get
back through the dust. And you,” he
grinned delightedly at No. 3’s im-
maculate grey flannels, “just slip into
this tight yard here. Work round slowly
and stand up any that gets down, see?
Be quite an experience for y’,” he
beamed, moving off. Ten minutes later
three dirty and disgusted visitors were
heading urgently for the pub.
TO A HALF-FARE TRAM-TICKET.
Mere paper from the common pulp you came.
You might have been, had fate been otherwise,
A party hat, a bag for custard pies,
Or, in a race-book, carried Phar Lap’s name.
But no, some noble chance decreed you fame,
To rest at last my bookmark ’twixt the sighs
Of Porphyro and Madeline’s fair eyes,
In Keats’ immortal verse, my English prize.
Blest among half-tickets, unaware
(How humbly) of the dream that folds you in,
The time will come, when every proud full fare
Will hail you in that one great Rubbish Bin.:.
I muse with man’s conceit, who understand
No more than you, my Mover’s unfelt hand.
VICTORIA.
LOUIS H. CLARK.


BOOKS YOU SHOULD READ
SOME HOUSES AND PEOPLE OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
by G, Nesta Griffiths. There is a wealth of interesting material
in this most readable volume. This book will recall fading
memories to older readers, while presenting the young with
a vivid picture of now-vanished people and places. Illustrated.
35/- (post Bd.)
MUSIC FOB THE MILLIONS, by David Ewen. The Encyclopaedia
of Musical Masterpieces. A complete Concert and Record
guide, invaluable wealth of information presented in an
interesting manner both attractive and easy to read.
39/- (post 1/-)
HOUSE AND GARDEN’S COMPLETE GUIDE TO INTERIOR
DECORATION. A practical and authoritative handbook for the
furnishing and decorating of rooms of all sizes, types and
periods. 320 pages illustrated with 141 rooms in colour. 354
photographs and 852 drawings. 53/6 (post 1/4)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LIMITED
Booksellers & Publishers,
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. MA6511.
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
THE AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
Filter
nnmiwwMiWMi)
Cylinder
TO
GUTU RIDGE
PTY., UMITED,
10-12 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown, Sydney, N.B.W.
t <*“
Yout choice 111 CINZANO
Vermouth, whether your taste is for
tweet or dry. CINZANO Vermouth
gives Just tKat extra exhilarating tany
to the palate.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Ordinary Department.
Total Ex- Written Added
Dec., Income. Claims. penses. Off. Funds.
’43.13,691,791 7,431,300 1,333,818 528,757 4,397,916
’44.14,410,742 7,009,339 1,487,834 574.532 5,339,037
’45.15,386,670 7,734,318 1,602,764 30,099 6,019,489
’40.16,438,118 7,999,980 2,152,283 48,261 6,237,594
’47.17,731,409 7,478,081 1,855,224 111,608 8,285,890
’48.19,245,343 7,983,274 1,891,804 83,699 9,280,566
Industrial Department.
Total Ex- Written Added
Dec., Income. Claims. penses. Off. Funds.
£> £> & £> £>
’43.4,294,091 1,562,482 939,028 16,214 1,776,367
’44.4,550,853 1,897,507 985,776 13,598 1,743,972
’45.4,845,391 2,053,209 1,006,856 7,226 1,778,100
’40.5,129,915 2,245,238 1,152,203 6,826 1,725,648
’47.5,832,978 2,471,039 1,064,886 16,845 1,780,208
’48.5,653,879 2,638,262 1,034,426 15,788 1,905,403
It was at the beginning of 1849, not long
after Australia’s first big financial crisis,
that the Rev. W. H. Walsh and four
others—T. Holt, T. S. Mort, C. Lowe
and W. Perry—set on its feet what is now
the greatest mutual life office in the
British Commonwealth, the A.M.P.
Society. They were difficult days, and
for many years little progress was made,
despite the inrush of population caused
by the gold-rush of the 1850’s —the bene-
ficial influence of life assurance on the
welfare of the community was not so
fully appreciated during the nineteenth
century as it is now.
The society’s advance from strength
to strength has become progressively
more pronounced over the last two de-
cades than during the preceding 80 years:
1928. 1938. 1948.
£,£>£»
New business. . 21,352,159* 29,104,683 66,705,378
Total income. . 10,780,505 14,849,791 24,899,222
Total assets . . 73,776,235 117,009,258 194,058,645
Business in
forcet . . 238,197,252 356,218,289 613,825,875
* Includes £1,275,000 in connection with N. S. Wales
local-govt, superannuation. f Includes bonus addi-
tions ( £74,493,485 in 1948).
A variety of factors contributed to the
growth. Inflation apart, not the least of
these has been a high degree of technical
and administrative skill, to which Richard
Teece and those who followed him con-
tributed much.
Life assurance is sold primarily on
fairness of the contract, and the prospect
of a future benefit commensurate with
what is meantime given up to obtain it.
Besides financial soundness and bonus-
paying capacity, this calls for creation of
new types of assurance to meet new needs
as they arise, as well as for full, prompt
and friendly service to policyholders.
Most recent development has been the
introduction of group assurance, out of
which has grown subsidised staff superan-
nuation assurance, which has given new-
business figures a tidy lift of recent years.
Under this form of contract O.D. bene-
fits are secured on payment of weekly
premiums, deducted from wages and re-
mitted to the society by employers.
In these days when all are exhorted to
save the society’s contribution to the
general economic welfare is more marked
than ever. Not only is the very object of
its existence to persuade people to save, but
it offers them sufficient incentive to con-
tinue it regularly. Its contracts offer
capital security long before it is ever
paid for, and capital appreciation is made
certain by the annual addition of bonuses
to sums assured, even though the price of
Stock Exchange and other securities may
fall. No profits are distributed as divi-
dends —there is no share-capital to feed—
and the bonuses, apart from the small
amount surrendered for cash, are in the
form of additional savings—savings on
savings. Then in the investment of these
savings a substantial portion of the
money is placed in Government bonds,
and the balance spills over into a wide
field of mortgage, industrial and other
securities.
No less than £66,705,378 (up
£5,184,823) of new business was put on
the books last year—£58,249,017 (up
£4,978,523) ordinary and £8,456,361 (up
£206,300) industrial. Of the ordinary
business 74 p.c. was gathered in Aus-
tralia, 23 p.c. New Zealand and the other
3 p.c. in Britain and elsewhere. Over
99 p.c. of the industrial contracts are Aus-
tralian. Including bonus additions of
£74.5 million, total business in force
amounted to £613.8 million, an increase
of £49 million. So there is no doubt
about continued expansion.
The strength of the office rests on the
strength of the reserves, disclosed and
hidden. The life funds substantially
exceed policy liabilities, and they are
backed by provision for contingencies,
while the market value of investments is
known to exceed their book-value. In
the two departments combined, gross in-
come (before deducting income and land
taxes, £524,876) stepped up £1,849,536,
reaching £25,424,098. After paying
claims and exes., sending £149,950 to the
staff fund, etc., and writing £99,487 off
the book-value of assets, £11,251,969 was
added to the life funds, making them
£185,324,785. In addition there are in-
vestment and contingency reserves of
£4,250,000, raising total funds to
£189,574,785.
The surplus available for distribution
(excess of life funds over policy liabili-
ties) was £5,455,768, of which £4,371,537
was used to provide bonuses to policy-
holders at the same rates as for the pre-
ceding three years, £670,118 was ear-
marked for interim bonuses and additions,
to sums assured, etc., and £414,113 was
carried forward.
Bonus-paying power depends mainly
upon the experience in connection with
interest, mortality and exes. Mortality
is well within expectation. The net effec-
tive rate of interest earned on the life
funds (after deducting taxes) was
£3 11s. 6d. p.c. (down Is. 3d.), and it
might ease a little yet before the present
trend is arrested. The existing margin of
a shade over 1 p.c. above valuation rate
(2} p.c.) is usually considered adequate
for maintenance of bonus rates. Exes,
took 17.3 p.c. of net premiums in the
O.D. and 24.8 p.c, in the I.D. as against
16.3 p.c. and 23.3 p.c. respectively in
1947. Mechanisation of routine work is
expected to result in substantial savings
over the next few years ; but if costs con-
tinue to climb “it might be difficult to
maintain present bonus rates next year,”
the chairman says.
Here is a summary of the investment
portfolio:
1947. 1948.
£ p.c. £ P-e.
Govt, securities! 139,067,203 76.1 144,106,694 74.3
Mortgages . . 23,585,774 12.9 26,091,407 13.4
Loans policies .. 10,949,979 6.0 10,891,635 5.6
debentures .. 4,277,544 2.4 7,933,984 4.1
Debtors, etc.J . . 2,600,183 1.4 2,677,941 1.4
Cash .. . . 215,284 0.1 188,491 0.1
Premises "".. 2,114,814 1.1 2,168,543 1.1
Total assets .. 182,810,781 194,058,645
Liabilities* .. 3,369,649 3,394,141
Net assets .. 179,441,132 190,664,504
t Includes local- and semi-government securities.
} Mainly accrued interest and , outstanding
premiums.
* Other than liabilities under policies.
Last year £5,039,491 was added to Gov-
ernment securities, £2,505,633 to mort-
gages .and £3,756,390 to shares and de-
bentures. The co. is negotiating with
the S, Australian Government for de-
velopment of a large area of virgin
country in the upper s.-e. corner of the
State. The idea is to clear the land of
stunted shrub, sow permanent pastures
and subdivide for closer-settlement. The
co. is also investigating the possibility of
a similar venture in the s.-w. of Westralia.
This is a new departure in the investment
of life-assurance funds.
Union Trustee Co.
Ordi- Investment
nary Fluctuation
Feb., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1940.. 13,712 8 p.c. =ll,OOO I 77 492 2 923
Staff Super. Fund, £5OO j ■
1941.. 10,530 8 p.c. =ll,OOO 1 76 622 3183
Staff Super, Fund, £5OO f “
1942.. 8,072 7 p.c. = 9,625 74,969 3048
Investment fluctuation reserve
. taken in, £2523 .. .. 77,492
1943.. 7,367 C p.c. = 8,250 76,609
1944.. 9,832 6 „ „ 8,250 78,191
1945.. 15,441 71 „ ~ 10,312 83,320
1946.. 11,756 C „ „ 8,250 86,820
1947.. 9,317 6 „ „ 8,250 87,893
1948.. 7,310 6 „ „ 8,250 86,953
1949.. 9,932 6 „ „ 8,250 88,636
Hie 64-year-old Union, second biggest
thing of its kind in Australia, has strong
connections in pastoral circles, and the
business is well spread throughout Vic-
toria, N. S. Wales and Queensland.
Though the volume of business on the
books is not broadcast, the growth of
commission earnings, etc., leaves no doubt
about continued expansion.
Fluctuation in the level of profits over
the last decade is the outcome of a variety
of factors. Since war began there has
been a constant struggle between rapidly-
rising costs and steadily-growing returns
from an expanding volume of business at
fixed corpus and other commission
charges, which have remained unaltered
since the closing decades of last century.
The sharp increase in the 1945 profit
figure was, for the most part, due to
exceptionally heavy realisation of estate
assets. Two years later the co. became
involved in litigation before the High
Court and then the Privy Council con-
cerning the basis of calculating commis-
sion in certain instances. Hence the high
level of exes, and relatively lower level
of net earnings over the last three years.
The Privy Council dismissed the co.’s
appeal in July, 1948, and final costs in
connection with the case were debited to
last year’s p, and 1. account.
Here is a summary of p. and 1. figures:
Commissions, Exes. p.c.
Interest, etc. Exes.* Earnings.
1935 .. .. £91,538 £77,483 84.6
1940 .. .. 107,743 92,031 85.4
1943 .. .. 116,554 103,553 88.8
1946 .. .. 135,928 124,172 91.3
1947 .. .. 151,648 142,331 93.8
1948 .. . . 159,205 151,895 95.4
1949 .. ..• 176,651 166,719 94.4
* Excluding reserves for taxes until 1945.
The encouraging feature last term was
the net growth of £17,446 in gross earn-
ings, which consisted of commissions, etc.,
less provision for contingencies, £166,900
(up £19,492) and rents, interest, etc.,
£9751 (down £2046). Exes, took £14,824
of the gain, and their ratio to earnings,
though 20s. p.c. lighter, was still above
average for this class of business. The
net result (up £2622) was 7.2 p.c. on the
£137,500 of capital, or a modest 4.3 p.c.
on shareholders’ funds (capital and re-
serves combined), which need turn in
only 3.6 p.c. to cover 6 p.c. on capital
alone. Over the last three years net
earnings averaged £8853 (6.4 p.c. on capi-
tal) compared with averages of £10,449
(7.6 p.c. on capital) for the six years to
close of accounts in 1946 and £13,098
(9.5 p.c. on capital) for the six years
before that.
With legal exes, out of the way and
the business still,expanding, prospects of
a better showing at next balance are en-
couraging, subject to what happens in
connection with costs. Hopes are that
their steep upward curve will soon begin
to flatten out, thus giving net earnings
more of a chance to respond to growth
of business; much depends upon what
happens in connection with wages, which
are determined by the Arbitration Court.
At 335. (41s. a year ago) the co.’s 50s.
shares paid to 275. 6d. each—of the
other 225. 6d. £1 is callable only in the
event of liquidation—return an attractive
5 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis. Net tangible
cover is 455. 2d.
At end February last, assets comprised
freehold, etc., £148,060, Government
securities and deposits £69,090, book debts
£1373 and cash £22,265. The only lia-
bilities were £4152 for final and un-
claimed divs. and a tax reserve of £10,500.
Illawarra Steam (N.S.W.)
To Re-
Mar.. Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1940 .. 11,243 9 p.c. = 9,000 2,243 67,038
1941 .. 12,686 9 „ „ 9,000 3,686 ™.724
1942 .. 10.797 9 „ 9,000 1,797 72,521
1943 . . 15,446 9 „ „ 9,000 6,446 78,967
Loss.
1944 .. 3,512 5 „ „ 5,000
1945 .. 2,460 5 „ ~, 5 . 000 „ r rHiv
Add charter-rate adjustment, £5422.. 68,41/
1946 .. 3,345 5 p.c. = 5,000 60,072
Surplus sale assets, £395 .. • • 60,467
Cost refitting, £4OOO .. .. •• 50,467
Profit. _
1947 .. 1,850 5 p.c. = 5,000 53,31/
From tax reserve, £1862 .. 55,1/J
Loss.
1948 .. 12,809 Nil £2,370
Net unexplained addition res., £25,144 67,514
1949 . . 6,106 Nil 61,408
The figures since 1943 are an impressive
illustration of the mess into which Gov-
ernment control has landed this snugly-
financed, hitherto prosperous and nearly-
century-old N. S. Wales South Coast
shipping co. Including Government
charter-rate adjustments, the net trading
loss over the last half-dozen years was
£20,960. No allowance was made for
depreciation during this period, and for
the second time in succession during the
last half-century shareholders have been
passed by.
While under requisition to the Shipping
Board the fleet was run at a heavy loss,
and charter rates received by the co.
didn’t cover the rapidly-increasing cost of
maintenance and repairs. Since de-
requisition and return of the vessels
during the December half of 1947, high
and rising running and other costs, slow
turnabout, the 40-hour week and rail-
and road-competition have made it im-
possible to squeeze anything in the way
of profit out of the business. The lift in
freight rates authorised by the control
authorities was too little and too late.
Last year’s loss was written after tak-
ing into account £19,000 received in final
adjustment of charter rates to October,
1947. Heavy outlay (amount not stated)
on additional overhaul of four vessels
after their return and continued rise in
operating costs were the trouble. In the
previous year £16,942 was received on
account of charter-rate adjustments.
A further increase in freight rates
has been granted since the close
of accounts, but wages and prices
have kept on going up, too, and
until the next accounts are presented it
is not certain which will win the race.
The board hopes that the Government
will make adjustments in connection with
road and rail services that will enable
the fleet to trade under more equitable
conditions. A committee set up by the
State Government to investigate condi-
tions under which coastal trade operates
has decided that retention of the shipping
service on the south coast is essential,
but has not yet submitted its report and
recommendations. So the board has de-
cided to await the result of the current
year’s trading before making a definite
recommendation to shareholders as to the
co.’s future activities.
During the year the book-value of
shipping property, which is “consider-
ably” below market value, was reduced
by £2750, there was an unexplained addi-
tion of £25,144 net to reserves, and the
more-or-less liquid surplus (£135,053) in-
creased by £21,756:
1940. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital.. £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Liabilities* . . 8,554 45,540 57,853 39,789
Ship property 24,880 24,680 24,680 21,930
Freeholds and
leaseholds.. 2,460 2,155 2,155 2,155
Plant, stores, etc. 1,740 2,120 2,239 2,271
Book debts . . 17,176 22,300 26,127 29,819
Govt, securities,
etc. .. 133,807 152,603 145,028 145,023
* Including tax provision.
The exceptionally strong liquid position is
the outstanding feature there.
After remaining steady around 255. for
the first four months of 1949, price of
the co.’s pound shares has dropped to
235. 6d. on ’Change. At the lower figure
the market values the undertaking at
£117,500, or £17,503 less than the liquid
surplus. In addition, there are fixed assets
with a book-value of £26,356, and worth
a lot more. Valued as a going concern


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Institution. Established 1862,
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
E. B. KNOX (Chairman), F. W. HIXSON, ORWELL PHILLIPS.
G. F. HUGHES, R. J. VICARS, J. W. DUNLOP.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
FOR INFORMATION ONLY.
This advertisement is for public information only, and is not a Prospectus within
the meaning of the Companies Act, 1936, and the requirements of Section 137 of that
Act have not been fully complied with. The full Prospectus is dated 12th May,
1949, and a copy has been filed with the Registrar-General of New South Wales,
who takes no responsibility as to its contents. The whole of the shares in the
undermentioned issue have been applied for, and consequently no shares are now
available for subscription.
Duly and Hansford, Limited
( Incorporated under the Companies Acts of New South Wales.)
Registered Office: Carrington Road, Marrickville
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
of an issue at par of
100.000 5% Cumulative Preference Shares of £1 Each Payable in full £1 per
share on Application.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £500,000
Divided into—
-200.000 Ordinary Shares of £1 Each (Fully Paid) .. .. .. £200,000
100.000 5% Cumulative Preference Shares of £1 Each Payable in full
upon application .. .. .. .. ~ .. 100,000
10,000 £1 Employees’ Shares held in Reserve
190.000 £1 Unclassified Shares held in Reserve .. .. .. 200,000
500,000 £500,000
ISSUED CAPITAL:
200,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 Each (Fully Paid), £200,000
DIRECTORS:
Alfred Duly.
Walter Hall Hansford.
Charles Lancelot Duly.
Horace Aubrey Roy.
FINANCIAL ADVISER:
P. L. de Monchaux, F.C.A. (Aust.).
BANKERS: '
E. S. & A. Bank, Ltd., Haymarket Branch.
SOLICITORS:
Norton Smith & Co., Sydney.
AUDITORS:
Messrs. P. L. de Monchaux & Willcock, Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
Sydney.
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE;
L. R. Goff, Carrington Road, Marrickville.
HISTORY OF THE COMPANY:
The business was established in January, 1921, as a Partnership consisting
of the late W. A. Duly and Messrs. A. Duly, O. L. Duly and, W. H. Hansford, to
manufacture and develop Bright Bolts and Nuts and similar products and automotive
parts.
The present Company was incorporated on 3rd July, 1935, the abovementioned
Partners comprising the Directors of the Company. The business by that time
had expanded very considerably, particularly in regard to the manufacture of
automotive replacement parts, notably Axles, Valves, Piston Pins, King Pins,
Universal Joints, Shackle Bolts and Bushes, Bronze Bushes and similar products
of ready selling lines in addition to the lines on which the business commenced.
The sales organisation of the Company is well organised on a wholesale
selling policy through the distributing channels of the Federated Wholesale
Automotive Parts and Accessory Association and Principle Car Organisations
throughout Australia.
Also the Company’s products are exported in considerable quantities to
leading distributors in New Zealand, South Africa, India and the Near East.
The Company’s products have throughout its existence been renowned for
their excellent quality, and this, together with up-to-date production organisation
and modem plant and the abovenamed selling organisation, has in post-war years
resulted in further marked expansion.
The demand for this Company’s products, both in Australia and abroad, and
the assured continuance thereof is so great that it necessitates the additional
Capital now being asked for, which can be fully utilised in a profitable manner.
It is worthy of note that the Company’s modern and well-organised plant
of all departments now covers an area of five acres, and its catalogue includes
approximately 19,000 trade lines covering automotive parts and allied products.
PURPOSE OF THE ISSUE:
The purpose of the Issue is to provide additional Trading Capital to finance
the expanding business of the Company.
PAYMENT OF DIVIDENDS:
The Preference Shares will rank for dividend from the date of allotment
find Interim Dividend will be payable in the month of March and the Final
Dividend in the month of October each year.
ASSET BACKING:
The Asset Cover for Preference Shares of this Issue, based on the Audited
Balance Sheet at 31st December, 1948, and after introduction of this Preference
Capital, is £3/7/6 per share.
RIGHTS TO NEW ISSUE ;
The Preference Shares of this Issue confer the right to participate on a
one-third basis in the Issue of any further Ordinary Shares.
STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING;
Applications will be made as soon as practicable for official listing of the
Preference Shares of this Issue on the Sydney Stock Exchange.
SUBSCRIPTION AND ALLOTMENT;
The 100,000 Preference Shares of this Issue have been oversubscribed and
allotment has been made.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
Missing Friend.
RE ANTHONY GRIEVE CORNETIST
AND MUSICIAN.
Would any person who knows the where-
abouts or any details of the above
musician, believed to have lived in the
Ararat-Horsham area in Victoria in 1902
after arriving from England and last
heard of in Bourke, N.S.W., in approxi-
mately 1937, please- communicate with
CONTROLLING OFFICE, COMMERCIAL
UNION ASSURANCE CO., LTD., 6th
Floor, 413 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Public Notice.
1,, MARIA STAVROU PEROUNIS, of
Greek nationality, born at Castelorigo,
Dodecanese, Greece, and resident 20 years
in Australia, now residing at 171 Crown
Street, Sydney, intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality and
Citizenship Act, 1920-1946.
You'll travel
lighter with
GLOBITE
TRAVEL CASES
Stronger,
smarter,
longer-lastlngl
% fm smmm
Disabled lad wins footing in
industry..
m
M
Sii
A TRUE STORy
Impaired physique and a
noticeable limp, resulting from
a severe bone disease (osteo-
myelitis) might well seem to
John a fourteen year
old lad, to threaten his pros-
pects of normal success and
happiness in life. This young
Australian was put on the
road to recovery through the
skill of a noted specialist,
who then referred his case
to the Director of Social
Services. The Director called
in the assistance of the
Commonwealth Employment
Service, and the Disablement
and Juvenile sections took an
immediate interest in the
boy’s future.
The fact that John had only
attained sixth grade Primary
standard at school was an
obstacle to his prospects of
apprenticeship. However his
case was tactfully submitted
by the Employment Officer
to the Manager of a leading
firm of refrigeration engineers,
and at an interview, the lad’s
personality and intelligence
won him his opportunity,
subject to continuance of his
studies. The necessary trade
indentures were completed,
and he is now engaged as
an apprentice refrigeration
mechanic, with prospects of
a bright future.
This true story taken from
official files shows how the
Disabled Persons and Juvenile
Sections of the Commonwealth
Employment Service assist
those who specially need a
helping hand. Placement of
disabled persons or of juven-
iles is only one aspect of the
daily work of Employment
Officers. Their experienced
advice and assistance are
available to all employers
and employees, without charge
or obligation, at any branch
pr district office.
COMMONWEALTH IMPIOVMBST SR6CE
Offices throughout Australia
Consult your Telephone Directory,
fd
a
f 6i
/ , *
/ s.
'A':l
m
r*
S>£-7*
r
■a
-;• /
✓
:;■-//
i- , - o
/ ,jC
S&-. • /// \ '
J
kS
•"/
/ * *
, /
: -7:
♦
fflptt
airr/Je
/aaZ /fc/sfraZ/a/t ,.. tiZamfi/ons of ZZre ifyaeZ
A PRODUtT OF THE OLYMPIC TYRE & RUBBER CO. LTD.
N\
on the basis of earning-power,
the investor at 235. 6d. Who
looks for 4.2 p.c. on his money
counts on a 5 p.c. div. Another
point worth noting is that the
co. is in the happy position of
being able to return three-
quarters of its capital, or there-
abouts, without hamstringing
the business in the matter of
working capital.
B.H.P. is opening up a big
new dolomite deposit, which
occurs ,in a sheet spreading over
some 25 miles of country to a
depth of over 270 ft. in places
at Ardrossan, on the east coast
of Yorke Peninsula, S. Aus. The
stuff is to be shipped to the
steelworks at Newcastle and
Port Kembla, where it will be
used for lining the open-hearth
furnaces. A 36in. conveyor-belt
will carry crushed ore along a
3055 ft. loading structure to ships
moored along an 800 ft. T-head
berth of six dolphins, thus keep-
ing handling costs at a minimum
by reducing the amount of
manual labor required.
* * * *
Cuthbert’s Misima (Papua),
whose mine was flooded and
workings collapsed during the
war-time evacuation period, got
back into production again to-
ward end April last with a daily
throughput of 15 tons ore, about
124- p.c. plant capacity. The
flow of mill-feed is to be
quickened as labor becomes
available. Immediate objective
is development of Nos. 6
and 7 levels northern sec-
tor, where a considerable
tonnage of better-than-mine-
average ore is expected to be
opened up. The drilling pro-
gramme to test the lode to
1000 ft. has already indicated
that the oxides continue some
80ft. below present bottom (No.
7) level. The extent and prob-
able value of the sulphides in
this sector have yet to be proved.
In the southern sector, on the
other side of Cooktown Creek,
rehabilitation work has not yet
begun. Here 276,870 tons ore,
expected to average 54dwt. gold
and about 36dwt. silver, has
been measured up. What profit
the co. will be able to earn with
gold at its present prices and
working costs at about double
pre-war level (they were about
245. a ton in 1939) will depend
largely upon the volume of
throughput and the extent to
which selective mining is prac-
tised. For each of the three
years to end 1939 the co. paid
2s. a share from profits averag-
ing 2s. B.ld. a share. After re-
cent sales at 7s. 9d. sellers ask
Bs. and buyers offer ss. for the
10s. shares.
* * * *
North Kalgoorlie Ltd.,
has bought from North Kalgurli
United Mines, Ltd., one of the
De Bernales group, the leases
(5461 E, 5563 E and the eastern
portion of 5429 E) formerly
separating its Croesus and Kal-
gurli areas on the Golden Mile
(W.A.), thus giving the co. con-
tinuity of area through the
whole of its properties. The
deal will enable the co. to test
the southern and downward ex-
tension of ore-bodies now being
opened up in the Croesus, where
262,000-odd tons of s.B2dwt.
stuff had been measured up
early in 1948. The remaining
leases belonging to North Kal-
gurli United (5463 E, 5446 E and
western portion of 5492 E),
which adjoin the northern
boundary of Kalgoorlie Enter-
prise Mines, Ltd., have been
bought by the last-mentioned co.
Price paid in each case is not
mentioned. In 1934 North Kal-
gurli United Gold Development,
another De Bernales show,
bought all the shares in North
Kalgurli United for £llO,OO0 —
£30,000 cash and the balance
shares —and sunk a prospecting
and development shaft to 734 ft.,
when work was suspended fol-
lowing the outbreak of war.
* * * *
Falcon Gold, an Adelaide
concern with a capital of
£15,375, in 205,000 ss. shares
paid to Is. 6d. each, has taken a
five years’ working option over
A. McDonald’s Edna Beryl, on
the northern one of the two east-
west lodes at Tennant Creek.
Price is £40,000, payable
£30,000 cash by Feb. 12, 1954,
and the balance in f.-p. shares by
Jan. 14, 1950. In addition
£1250 cash and 27,000 shares
credited as paid to 2s. each are
payable to Carbonate Lead Syn-
dicate for assignment of the
option, etc. Consolidated Gold
Mining Areas, another Adelaide
concern which has decided not
to proceed with its option over
the Red Terror (Tennant Creek)
at present, has obtained a “con-
siderable” interest in Falcon,
said to be about 23,000 shares,
which are expected to be put
out to the public through Car-
bonate Lead. Goldmining at
Tennant Creek is more of a
gamble than in most other areas,
because the ore-bodies, which
are irregular in shape, do not
lend themselves to conventional
methods of block-out, gold-dis-
tribution is usually erratic, and
the average grade of ore in
situ can be estimated only
within wide limits.


Business, Rollery, Etc.
A BUYER'S MARKET RETURNING.
Stafford Cripps has been tell-
ing the British Socialists and
their supporters more home
truths in the past few months
than they have listened to in all
the previous time Attlee “Labor”
has been in office. He has told
wage-earners that they are to
have no wage-increases and no
reductions in taxation (the latter
being a result of the high cost
of “social security,” among other
things), and that the standard
of living can only be raised
by more production, not by
diminishing profits. He has re-
turned to his argument of the
cake. Wage-increases and profit-
restriction may enable the
national-income cake to be sliced
up in different ways, but such
devices would not increase the
size of the cake.
Britain is facing another one
of its post-war-rehabilitation
crises. Competition in world
trade is sharpening, British pro-
duction costs are high, the pound
sterling is overvalued in relation
to the dollar (which means that,
expressed in dollars, British
costs are extra-high), and pro-
ductivity of Britain is not yet
at the level needed to put the
country back on its feet. Yet
production in Britain has risen
considerably as compared with
before the war —output per man
employed was, in 1948, 8 p.c.
above the 1938 level. Total
volume of output, because of
greater employment, was 26 p.c.
higher. This is not nearly
enough, as manufacturing tech-
niques have improved in most
countries of the world. But the
improvement in Britain, inade-
quate as it is, shows how Aus-
tralia is lagging behind in the
vvorld race for economic re-
covery. While output of steel in
Britain continues to establish
progressive records, Australian
steel output is declining because
of lack of coal—a state of affairs
that has its roots in “Labor”
Government encouragement of
industrial indiscipline.
Coal and Steel
The British Economic Survey
for 1949 put it to British in-
dustry :
Despite the remarkable progress
made in increasing steel supplies, con-
tinued expansion of output during the
next three or four years is essential
to the success of our economic and
industrial policy.
The division of total steel supplies
in 1949 is planned to be about 60 p.c.
for home investment, 30 p.c. for
exports, and the remainder for defence
and consumer needs.
The British Treasury recently
emphasised that, after coal, steel
is the most widely used industrial
material, and the rate of indus-
trial re-equipment and expan-
sion, as well as the development
of overseas non-dollar sources of
supply of other materials,, de-
pend on the output of British
steel.
It will be seen from the fore-
going how much emphasis is
placed in Britain upon steel as
an essential material for invest-
ment in industry: 60 p.c, of the
home output is being used to
assist) industry to make other
goods, and only a small percen-
tage is to be used for goods to
be at once bought and used by
the public. Here again is a vast
difference between general policy
in Britain and Australia. In this
country too much emphasis has
been placed on the consumer-
goods side of things, and there
is a very dangerous lag in the
programme of works of a
national character, whether
sponsored by the Governments,
local-government bodies or by
private enterprise. “Labor” has
been loafing along, covered with
Socialistic and Communistic
barnacles, and exploiting the
thrift and capital investments of
another generation.
Sharper World Competition
The whole world picture is
changing now in a way ominous
for Socialist sluggards. “Stable
prices at home, world commodity
prices beginning to fall, keen
price competition being met by
British goods overseas —these
have been the main features of
the price situation in the early
months of 1949.” So reports the
Economic Information Unit of
the British Treasury in its May
bulletin. It adds: “A reduction
in U.K. prices is not only a con-
dition of success in the buyer’s
market overseas; it is also tlje
best way to increase the real
value of incomes at home.”
Further: “In the West Indies,
for example, comparison over a
wide range of roughly compar-
able British and American com-
modities shows the British price
always at a disadvantage— two
or even three times as high is
quite common.” Britain obvi-
ously sees the end of the seller’s
market.
Power and Equipment
British members of the Anglo-
American Council on Produc-
tivity, after a visit to United
States factories, were impressed
with the necessity for greater
standardisation in production,
the use of more mechanical aids,
and the better servicing of
operatives. In regard to the last
factor it was noted; “There is
apparently available in the
United States two or three times
more electrical power per worker
than in the U.K. Nothing limits
productivity so much as a
shortage of power and capital
equipment. If U.K. industries
are to maintain themselves in
world competitive conditions,
their mechanical efficiency must
be steadily improved.” Aus-
tralia, too, should pay deep re-
gard to the words in italics
(ours). We are becoming shock-
ingly short of coal, electric
power and capital equipment.
And we are in desperate trouble
because of it —the blackouts are
only part of the story. Social-
ists have played a large hand
in assisting the Communists to
starve us of power and obstruct
capital re-equipment.
Exchange-rates and Cost
Britain now sees its exports
shrinking after a long run of ex-
pansion. Its dollar deficit is
again growing. Exports of
British cars to the U.S.A. have
dropped off at a disconcerting
rate, there being now more U.S.
cars available for the home
market, and spending-power in
America having suddenly con-
tracted, anyway. The “easy”
markets of the post-war period
have finished. Buyers can now
pick and choose their products
with more freedom, and, within
the limits of production-costs,
bargain over prices.
There is still a vast demand
for all the world’s produc-
tion. But costs and prices
are becoming more vital, in-
fluential factors. Competition is
again becoming the test of in-
dustrial efficiency and decider of
economic fortunes.
Britain will now be hard put
to it indeed to retain the parity
of $4.03 with the United States
for the pound sterling. No
wonder Stafford Cripps is mak-
ing no bones about the position
when talking of wages and
taxes to British trade-union re-
presentatives. In this he is far
more forthright than the rest of
his colleagues, and is an object-
lesson to the shuffling, twisting
and lying Socialists in Canberra,
who must see, if they have any
understanding of real things, that
Australian productivity is in a
far more decrepit state than in
Britain. Only the fixed rate of
exchange on London has so far
protected many of our products
from the sharp knife of increas-
ing world competition. Intern-
ally rising costs are already be-
coming a nightmare to some
Australian industries.
The Dynamic and the Decadent
The United States has led the
world in setting post-war levels
of production. It is now far
more productive than at any time
in its history. But the world
prospect at the moment seems to
be one in which, in spite of a
large and unsatisfied demand
for most goods, the seller will
have to meet the buyer on more
equal terms, and at reduced
prices. The world has been pray-
ing for a more abundant supply
of essential goods for years, and
abundance is now not so far
off, especially in the United
States. Britain, Europe and
Australia are still away behind
with production-schedules, but
United States and Canadian sur-
pluses are already affecting the
markets of the world—taking
away much of the lucrative
profits that have been hitherto
available to exporters.
The costs-inflation that has
accompanied Socialism in Bri-
tain and Australia must be
checked, and higher production
rather than “deflation” must be
made the weapon for an attack
on costs. Australia’s inglorious
post-war record has made this
country vulnerable to a severe
setback. In 1942-43, in spite of
the sinking of ore-carriers off
the N.S.W. coast by Jap sub-
marines, we turned out 1,626,000
tons of steel. In 1948-49 we
shall be lucky if we produce
1,100,000 tons.
Such are the results of Social-
ism and Communist control
of trade-unionism. Even the
“Labor” liars at Canberra will
find it hard to deny that we are,
industrially, dragging along be-
hind the U.S.A., Britain and
Canada, and that the sheep is
carrying us at the moment. Yet
the industrial possibilities in this
country would be immense
under sane government and
rational trade-unionism.
Gold in Maoriland
N.Z.’s gold industry is slowly
dying. Under the cut in the
gold price since M.L.’s pound
was revalued last August min-
ing and dredging concerns have
been in a bad way. There’s
only one buyer for their gold
today—M.L.’s Reserve Bank —
at £8 Bs. 6d. an ounce, against
£lO 15s. 3d. before the big
change. The gold-export tax of
12s. 6d. an ounce was tossed
overboard when the exchange
went back to par with sterling.
but this still left gold concerns
£1 13s. 3d. an ounce, or 15£
p.c., worse off than before.
Even the best of them hadn’t
averaged this return in late
years. One of the leaders. Grey
River Gold Dredging Co., built
on the formerly highly success-
ful Rimu Gold Co., with dol-
lar backing, has averaged only
p.c. diys, over a decade, and
“Sure I know where me husband is—what Was you
offerin' as a reward ?
total divs. of Bs, 3d. are still
Is. 9d. short of paid value of
the 10s. shares. Grey River
directors, four of them New
Yorkers, warn shareholders
that unless the Government re-
stores the gold industry to a
profitable basis it might be im-
possible fo recover their invest-
ment.
Net profit last year (to Dec.
31) fell to £2078, against
£74,615 in ’47 and £9014 in ’46.
Capital is £300,000. M.L.’s
oldest div.-earning mine, that of
Martha Gold Co. (Waihi), Ltd.,
with h.q. in London, has been
making final moves to close
down after £26 million-worth of
gold and silver bullion has been
won in 70 years. Remaining
ore, still extensive, is too low-
grade to pay at today’s price.
Profit (to Dec. 31) was £10,319,
against £12,608 in ’47 and
£16,587 in ’46, and div. dropped
to 2d. (6| p.c.), against 10 p.c.
(’47) and 5 p.c. (’46).
Maoriland Newsprint
While N.Z. newspapers
struggle to maintain today’s
size and circulations grow, tight
rationing of newsprint under
import-licensing compels them
to dip further into shrinking
paper-reserve stocks, said knight
Cecil Leys, chairman of N.Z.
Newspapers, Ltd., and leading
spokesman for M.L.’s .Press.
The newsprint outlook for 1950
was murky, on an import limit
of 21,000 tons fixed for MX.
Newspaper Proprietors’ Associa-
tion. Canada and John Bull
had both offered to sell New
Zealand more, but Finance
Minister Walter Nash was the
snag. The Dominion might
have to mark time for another
year. U.K. and Australian
journals had both grown in the
past year, Australian by 50 p.c.,
with a rising flow of imported
newsprint, and local production
helping to make the going
easier.
In N.Z. space is severely
rationed for news and ads.,
business can’t get a fair run,
and news is squeezed. Yet
Press-owners aren’t cheering the
£7 million State paper-making
project which Maorilahd’s in-
dustrially ambitious “Labor”-
Socialist Government plans to
launch in the Rotorua district.
They’d welcome an N.Z. paper-
mill to exploit forest wealth if
they were sure about it, but
knight Cecil Leys warned the
Government that it should con-
sult more than one group of ex-
perts on a scheme as big as
this.
“Establishment of a paper-
mill presents highly technical
and complex problems,” he said.
“Errors may be very costly.
false calculations at the plan-
ning stage disastrous. The
main adviser is an American
machinery co. instead of inde-
pendent engineer consultants
who are available in all coun-
tries where paper-making is
successfully established” . . . .
Apart from the unsatisfactory
technical approach by the Gov-
ernment, the suggestion that the
mill would be State-owned was
perturbing. Other examples of
State control didn’t lead to be-
lief that this would make for
efficiency. '
There’s a five-year programme
ahead to build and equip the
mill, a dam and a power-station,
plant a town in the forest
wilderness and lay a 50-mile
railway over steep and broken
country. A bigger labor force
than is in sight in N.Z. today
will be wanted, and experts will
have to be trained. Judging by
other MX. schemes, including
State hydro works, a year or two
can be added to the five-year
target, and costs have soared to
new peaks since the scheme first
dazzled Maorilanders nine
months ago.
Commissioner of State Forests
Clarence Skinner, provoked to
quick defence by Press brick-
bats, claimed the project had
been under the microscope for
many years. “We have con-
ferred with pulp- and paper-
manufacturers, makers of
machinery, laboratory scientists,
economic experts and other
leading authorities fitted to ad-
vise on the scheme,” was his
answer to the challenge. He
cited Walmsleys, Ltd. (U.K.),
Rust Engineering Co. (U.S.),
Swedish consultants and indi-
viduals not engaged in manu-
facture of plant or machinery.
Tests and research into qualities
of N.Z.-grown timber, mainly
Firms insignis, went back as far
as 1921. Latest reports, from
Australian pulp- and paper-mills,
show good results from insignis
and eucalypts mixed.
Immediately after allotment
of scrip last week Waugh and
Josephson ord. shares were
dealt in in Sydney at a brisk
rate. Sales were made at up to
30s. —ss. above the issue price
—with some reaction after stags
appeared. The co. has the
N.S.W. and Queensland agencies
for Caterpillar and John Deere
tractors, upon which its activities
are concentrated. Profits, after
taxation, have averaged £58,178
p.a. for the past three years,
£71,556 for the past five, and
£50,383 for the past 10 years.
Earnings for the year ending
June 30 next are reported to be
better than last year’s profit
(£72,056). Paid capital is
£300,000, all in ords. Fixed
assets totalled only £79,333 at
last balance-day, and a property
has since been sold at a profit.
All assets appear to have been
conservatively valued for the
purpose of the recent public
issue. Net tangible assets as at
June 30, 1948, amounted to 275,
7d, a share.
BROKEN HILL PROP.’S ISSUE.
With Broken Hill Prop.’s issue of 4,628,300 new £1
shares coming on the market on June 27, one for three at a
premium of 10s. a share, investors should find the following
figures—relating to B.H.P. and its subsidiaries —instructive.
So far this financial year N. S. Wales steel production (which
represents all but a fraction of. Commonwealth production)
has been at a lower rate than at any time since 1945-46 —for
the nine months ended March 31 output was 813,597 tons.
Last month the steelworks produced at only 62 p.c. of
capacity. The potentialities of the enterprise, given an
adequate coal supply, are very impressive. B.H.P. has at
least a 90 p.c. interest in these combined figures:
B.H.P. and Subsidiaries.
Year Tax N.S.W.
Ended Depreciation. Provision. Net Profit. Steel Production,
May, £ £ £ Tons.*
1941 .. 2,164,905 1,963,076 1,414,953 1,644,000
1942-.. 2,404,658 1,897,423 693,587 1,697,000
1943 .. 2,459,538 1,366,650 818,407 1,626,000
1944 .. 2,454,057 1,533,482 1,011,112 1,524,000
1945 .. 2,538,289 1,226,602 813,891 1,346,000
1946 .. 2,131,853 1,087,364 504,187 1,054,000
1947 .. 2,058,972 2,057,550 1,477,415 1,315,000
1948 .. 2,385,029 2,047,958 1,453,511 1,278,000
18,597,301 13,180,105 8,187,063 11,484,000
* Year ended June 30.
During the war period B.H.P. supplied the Common-
wealth Government with munition steel at cost price. When
all the new share-money is in paid capital will be £18,513,000.


CHAIRMAN REPORTS
CENTURY OF ACHIEVEMENT
On June 3, at the Head Office, Mr. Cecil H. Hoskins, Chairman
of Directors, addressed the A.M.P.’s 100th annual meeting.
His speech included these points.
feats
When our Society
commenced activi-
ties, months would
pass "between the
posting of a letter
to England and the
receipt of a reply:
Pitt and George
Streets were not
much more than
"bullock-tracks, and
the Tank Stream
was still above
ground. The courage and idealism of the gentlemen who,
under those conditions, determined on the foundation of a
mutual life assurance society is something we must admire.
No thought of profit entered their minds: instead, they ran a
chance of loss, since they guaranteed the Society during its first
years of existence. During its early years the Society made
little headway. The benefits of life assurance are, of course,
self-evident, but people are not, and never have been, willing
to make an immediate sacrifice to secure greater benefits in the
future. It was not until the organisation educated the public
about the benefits of life assurance that real progress began.
So Branches were opened in the colonies as each developed.
The last Australian Branch to open was in Western Australia,
in 1884.
Meanwhile an office was opened in New Zealand, and to-day
more than one-fifth of all the Society’s business is now centred
in that Dominion. Finally, in 1908, a Branch Office was opened
at London.
Concurrently with the gradual development of the system of
Branch Offices, the Society built up a network of District Offices
throughout Australia and New Zealand. This decentralisation
of the Society’s organisation enables us to give prompt, personal
service to members.
INDUSTRIAL DEPARTMENT
In spite of the success
achieved by the grow-
ing Society, there were
still large numbers of
people who, because
their incomes were
small, could not secure
the benefits of mem-
bership by payment of
yearly, half-yearly or
quarterly premiums. In
order to widen the
scope of the Society’s
operations, the Society
opened, in 1905, a new
Department called the
Industrial Department,
which issued policies for small Sums under which premiums
were paid either weekly or monthly. This Department pro-
vided agents who called to collect premiums at the members’
homes. The Industrial Department has been successful, and
to-day it has in force more than 1,300,000 policies insuring
over £91,000,000 (including bonus additions).
GROUP ASSURANCE & STAFF SUPERANNUATION
The most recent important development in our business has
been the introduction of a system of group insurance. Under
this system, employees have the premiums on their life policies
deducted by instalments from their wages and remitted to the
Society. By this means those who do not find it convenient to
pay premiums to the Society yearly, half-yearly or quarterly
are able to secure Ordinary Department policies on very
favourable terms.
A natural sequel to the group insurance system has been the
development of staff superannuation plans, whereby an em-
ployer subsidises the cost of group insurance to provide benefits
on the death or retirement of employees. The Ordinary Depart-
ment, the Industrial Department and the Group Insurance
System between them have made the benefits of mutual life
insurance available to all on the most economical basis.
ion
ANNUAL
REPORT
ECONOMY OF MANAGEMENT
For the year 1948 commission and expenses of
Management in the Ordinary Department
amounted to T 2.70 per cent, of the premium
income, and in the Industrial Department 21.37
per cent. These figures represent an improve-
ment on the corresponding figures for 1947,
which were 13.46 and 22.69 respectively.
BENEFITS PAID
I am glad to report that, in
spite of the continued fall-
in interest rates and the;
rise of costs, the Society;
has maintained the same;
rate of bonus as for each;
of the three preceding
years. As the Society’s;
bonuses are calculated onj
a compound basis, this,
means that most policy-
holders will receive a-
greater bonus for the year
1948 than for 1947! How-
ever, I should warn you that if the present
rise in costs continues it will be more difficult
to maintain the present bonus rate next year.
Payment of claims, either at death or maturity
of policies, is the only justification for the
existence of a Life Office. During one hundred
years this Society has paid more than £246
million to members. During 1948 alone, the
Society paid £10,621,000 under its policies
which represents on an average over £42,000
for each full day that its doors were open.
£4lOOO
STABILITY OF MEMBERSHIP
One test of the success of a Life Office is to be
found in the efforts which its members make
to retain their policies when times are difficult.
The Society’s experience in this respect has
been most satisfactory. During 1948 policies
which became void in the Ordinary Department
amounted to no more than 2.1 per cent, of the
total business in force at the beginning of the
year. In the Industrial Department the corres-
ponding percentage was 2.4. In view of the
unusually generous scales of surrender values
adopted by the Society, the low rate of lapses
and surrenders is remarkable.
FUNDS
INVESTED
Development of Investments
The rapid growth of the business in force
implies a corresponding increase in the
policy liabilities, and necessitates the
holding of very large funds to cover those
liabilities. At the end of this month it is
expected that the total assets will pass
the £2OO million mark. It is only thirteen
years ago since we proudly announced
that the assets of the Society exceeded
£lOO million.
The responsibility for the investment of
funds of this magnitude represents one
of the Society’s most difficult tasks. The
Board must necessarily regard the
security of the members’ funds as its
primary concern, and the Society has
always tried, as far as possible, to aid
the development of Australia and New
Zealand through the investment of its
funds. One of the most important ways
has been the granting of loans to primary
producers and secondary industries.
During recent years the amounts invested
in loans on mortgage have decreased
because mortgagors have been able to
reduce their indebtedness as a result of
the high prices of primary produce, and
current money conditions generally.
However, I am pleased to say that during
1948 we were able, by active development
of our mortgage connections, to increase
our loans on mortgage on real estate,
which, at a figure of more than £26 million,
now represents 13 1 per cent, of our total
assets. As a more direct step to encourage
primary production, the Society has
government:
SECURITIES
El 14,080,394
★
LOANS
ON MORTGAGE
£36.98X042
r\ :
LOCAL AND SEMI
GOVT. SECURITIES
£30,026,300
★
REAL ESTATE
£2,168,543
★
COMPANY SHARES
AND DEBENTURES
£7,933,934
*
OTHER ASSETS'
£2.866.432
recently undertaken the development of
a large area of virgin country in the
Upper South-East of South Australia.
This is a project of which the Society is
proud, and which represents an entirely
new departure in the investment of life
I insurance funds. The Society’s intention
I is to clear this area of stunted scrub, sow
down permanent pastures, and subdivide
the land for closer settlement. Some
details have already appeared in the
Press, but, because our negotiations with
the South Australian Government have
not yet finished, I am unable to make a
detailed announcement yet.
A recent development of investment
policy, made possible by the passing of
the Society’s new Act in 1941 and by the
amendment of the By-laws, to which
! members gave their consent in 1943, is
| the investment in the shares of industrial
! and commercial companies in Australia
■ and New Zealand.
At 31st December, 1948, the Society’s
investments in ordinary and preference
shares totalled £4,607,403, representing
approximately 2 1% of total funds. Share
investments have been spread over a
wide field of 206 companies.
At the end of the year the aggregate
market value of these shares was sub-
stantially greater than the figures in the
balance sheet. An Investment Depart-
ment is being built up to deal with statis-
tical and research work in connection
with Share Investments, and the Board is
confident that this will eventually be-
come one of the most highly skilled
investment organisations in Australia.
INTEREST RATES
The effective rate of Interest realised on the mean
Insurance Fund for 1948 was £3/18/4 per cent., a
decrease of l/sd. on the corresponding- figure for
1947. This fall is not surprising. Despite the
Society’s expanding investments in Debenture, Mort-
gage and Share Securities, the amount of money
which the Society has to invest each year is so great
that a large proportion of the total must be invested
in Government Loans on which the yield is £3/2/6
per cent, in Australia.
Whatever steps may be taken to broaden the invest-
ment field, Government Loans must always remain
an important avenue of investment. The interest
yielded by this class of security should be such as
to make thrift attractive.
STAFF
The progress of the Society has been greatly due
to the industry and ability of the staff. The ideals
which moved the founders have not been lost, but
are now a tradition, and new members soon become
imbued with this spirit.
GROWTH OF DIE BUSINESS
The success of the Society
may be measured by the
fact that, combining the
figures of both Depart-
ments, there are now more
than two million policies In
force, giving a total assur-
ance cover (including
bonus additions) of over
£6OO million. In 1948 the
total new business written
amounted to £66 million in
sums assured, an all-time
record, and a figure much
greater than the total sum
assured when the Society
completed its first fifty
years.
POLICIES IN FORCE
2.295,000
940,
143,000
9,000
1868
1998
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
HEAD OFFICE:
2/BP9
fd
PROVIDENT SOCIETY
87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY


r
699D.1.41 1
A WINNING DOG
Cocker Spaniel
“TALISMAN OF TROY”
A clear red and white dog. It
is claimed that he has won
more first prizes than any
other Cocker Spaniel of hu
colour in Australia.
m
atS
r; '
rw
CHAMPION
READY ROBBED TOBACCO
Also BRIGHT and DARK Flake Cut for the Pipe.
1 tA<
t
A
ul>
r
r\
m
V,
K
C
Nlr-
a
<T/
i\^fs
WQ
/
■f;:
o
tZw-
■
3®°
'ri
SI
«£?
JTiJC
i_&
fvAPS. 03L.C-'s ra_
TOOTH’S K.B. LAGER—Brewed and bottled by
Tooth & Co. Limited, Makers of good beer since 1835.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
CHINA WISHFULNESS.
Everything in China having
gone just about as bad as could
be, from the Western point of
view, the pundits seek consola-
tion in a mass of hopeful, not
to say wishful, thinking.
A fair summarising of this is
that China itself is expected to
win in the end. One popular
theme is that the Chinese are
far too inherently nationalistic
for Corns to be able to turn the
country into a Soviet satellite.
Another, somewhat related, is
that the Chinese Corns are
themselves too nationalistic to
be mere stooges for the Krem-
lin. Yet another theme in the
hope chorus is that China will
prove too vast for the Corns to
be able to impose single rule
over it.
A sound representative of the
U.S. hopefulness on those lines,
N. Y. “Times” has editorially
noted that the Chinese Corns
have been significantly silent
about any plans to govern
China:
“It is extremely' doubtful that
the Chinese Communists have
the cadres of officers, military
or civilian, to take over the ad-
ministration of the entire coun-
try. Even a Police State has to
have enough policemen. More-
over, the most urgent problem
for any China—Kuomintang or
Communist —is recovery from
the ravages of war and occupa-
tion. If the Communists tried
to govern China their first ob-
jective would have to be to get
China back on her feet, produc-
tively and economically. But
the whole strategic and tactical
pattern of the Chinese Com-
munists and their Soviet sup-
porters has gone in exactly the
opposite direction.... In waging
their civil war the Chinese
Communists have struck
primarily at lines of communi-
cation and transport. Their
most effective battle tactic has
been the destruction of rail-
roads. Their consistent slogan
has been not to defeat the Gov-
ernment but to bleed it white, so
that it would fall of its own
weight. The over-all strategy
has been not to conquer and
rule but to bring chaos and
anarchy.”
The possibility N. Y. “Times”
envisages is simply no central
Government. The U.S. Left-
tinged (or, as they like to style
it, “liberal”) view can be said
to be fairly represented by
Edgar Snow, of the “Saturday
Evening Post.” Snow at least
disowns acceptance of the silly
notion (which has had its propa-
gandists in Australian dailies)
that the Chinese Corns are
“mere agrarian reformers.” He
declares it has never been his
contention that Chinese Corns
are not real Marxists ; but “in-
ternal evidence” convinced him
that “they will not give ‘absolute
obedience’ to the Kremlin —the
basic test of anyone accepted as
satisfactory to Moscow.” A
“dozen years of first-hand study
of China” had left him with the
conclusion “that Soviet Russia
would not hold effective domina-
tion over the extremely nation-
conscious Chinese Com-
munists.”
Where Uncle Sam and pre-
sumably other Western coun-
tries come into the picture is in
China’s need for “capital and
credits on a huge scale, heavy
industrial machinery and tools
of all kinds, and hence a large
volume of foreign imports,”
Russia being unable to satisfy
such demands even in Eastern
Europe and Siberia, let alone
elsewhere. “If the new [Com.]
regime is to make a speedier
success of modernising China
than its predecessors it will
have to seek aid wherever prac-
ticable rather than abide by
ideological preferences.”
Hong Kong.
' Though naturally seeing
trouble ahead for Britain’s Hong
Kong as the Communists push
south, a correspondent there of
N. Y. “Herald Tribune” reports
that the general belief now is
that the pressure “is likely to be
economic and political, rather
than military.”
“Realistic considerations” are
counted on to make the Com-
munists cautious, first among
these “the resolute steps taken
by the British to defend their
rights by force of arms if neces-
sary.”
A curious “consideration” also
listed by the “Herald Tribune”
man is that Hong Kong in
British hands is very useful to
the Communist side as a link
with the outside world:
“Neither the Communists nor
the British like to admit it, but
the plain fact is that Hong
Kong, as a British colony and
a free port, has served and con-
tinues to serve a valuable func-
tion for the Reds. It has been
a haven for pro-Communist
political exiles. It has been
used as a base for disseminatibn
of Communist propaganda
throughout South-east Asia and
the Western world. But its
greatest importance to the Com-
munists is as a near-at-hand
market-place where they can sell
their surplus products and buy
essential materials not easily
obtainable through other chan-
nels.”
The Chinese Communists,
according to this correspondent,
have been buying through Hong
Kong such essential war-
materials as petrol, oil, steel,
chemicals, etc., and most traders
there, “whether British, Ameri-
can, Chinese or Indian,” are
anxious to do business with
them where they can see a profit.
As well, “Smuggling between
Hong Kong and the Chinese
mainland is already a big busi-
ness.”
Change in Indonesia.
Reporting from The Hague,
a “Christian Science Monitor”
correspondent has analysed re-
cent changes in Dutch policy for
Indonesia, “embodying conces-
sions almost inconceivable a few
months ago.”
So far, the “new wind” has
been evidenced only in “a few
gusts,” and whether it will be
“the prevailing wind” remains
to be seen: “If it remains it will
indicate that the Dutch recog-
nise, as other colonial nations
have done, that the days of
primary military - control
methods have passed.”
Causes of the change include
the Communist successes •in
China, which are held to have
“spurred the Dutch determina-
tion to fill the dangerous poli-
tical vacuum in Indonesia as
quickly as possible.”
“To understand the evolution
of Dutch policy on Indonesia,”
the correspondent further states,
“it must be appreciated that the
Dutch feel a keen responsibility
toward the Indonesians. They
have viewed the British course
in India as an example of what
happens when a subject people
is set adrift without adequate
preparation.”
The British acceptance of
India as a republic and the
Dutch readiness to now accept a
sovereign State to be called “the
Republic of the United States
of Indonesia,” the report de-
scribes as merely a superficial
parallel: “Britain has been wil-
ling to accept a nominal and
symbolic tie with an Indian re-
public under the Crown. The
Dutch insist on a constitutional
and clearly formulated bond
with Indonesia under the Nether-
lands Crown,”
Excluded Spain.
Despite the U.N.O. decision
to keep up it§ ostracism of the
country, there has for some
time been a steadily-strengthen-
ing trend in other quarters to
swallow anti-Franco feelings
and make a deal with Spain.
That has been especially
noticeable in the U.S., but prob-
ably of more significance is the
recent pronounced swing noted
in London “Times” news items
and editorials. As well, the
“Times” has published sundry
letters arguing on the lines of
the following comments by L.
D. Gammans, 'M.P., opposing
the policy of excluding Spain
from the Atlantic Pact and Wes-
tern Union:
“The policy is unreal because
if there were a war or a threat
of war in Europe, Spain would
certainly be invited to join the
Atlantic Pact at once, Franco or
no Franco. We are merely deny-
ing ourselves the benefits of prior
military consultations and the
help which a Spanish Army with
modernised equipment could
give to the defence of Western
Europe.
“The policy surely reeks of
hypocrisy when we are prepared
to admit to the Atlantic Pact
Portugal, which is certainly not a
democracy, and Italy, which
fought against us. We still main-
tain our Ambassadors in
Hungary and Bulgaria even after
the trials of Cardinal Minds-
zenty and the Protestant pas-
tors. We eat Spanish oranges,
tomatoes and early potatoes, we
drink Spanish wine and rely on
Spain for iron-ore, and yet we
refuse Spain full diplomatic
representation. This sort of in-
consistency is surely not a
policy: it is a phobia.
“Lastly, since the object of
cold-shouldering Spain is to in-
duce the Spanish people to get
rid of General Franco, it has
failed and will continue to fail.
Any self-respecting people would
resent pressure from an outside
Power to force them to change
their Government, just, as all


Bring them down...
with clean~killing
ELEY-KYNOCH
Shotgun Cartridges
w
V'
1
An abundance of quail, a good dog,
and a supply of Eley-Kynoch Grand
Prix cartridges will ensure a perfect
day’s shooting.
Make every shot a winner, ask your
storekeeper for 8 or 10 shot Eley-
Kynoch Grand Prix Cartridges.
*
%
ICI
ELEY-KYNOCH
Shotgun
CARTRIDGES
TS-18
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
political parties here [in Britain]
would have resented Marshall
aid to ourselves being condi-
tional on our getting rid of Mr.
Attlee’s Government merely be-
cause the Americans do not like
Socialism.”
Also, the “Times” has ap-
parently editorially accepted that
the policy of ostracising Spain is
out of date, has failed its pur-
pose, and now serves only
Russia.
Recently, too, the “Times”
sent its military correspondent to
have a look at Spain in the mili-
tary light of the Atlantic Pact.
He reported the army there in
impressively good shape, prob-
ably capable of putting into the
field at least 18 divisions. They
would, however, not be equipped
for real mechanised fighting, and
making them so would involve
impossible expenditure, beyond
even U.S. capacity. As a defen-
sive force on the Pyrenees line
they would be quite another
proposition; therefore a very
powerful addition to Western
strength. At the end of his de-
tailed survey the “Times” man
commented;
“Viewing the situation calmly
and dispassionately from the
point of view of international
politics and strategy, it appears
to me that the isolation of Spain
and, indeed, her exclusion from
the Atlantic Treaty have at pre-
sent the effect of nullifying, and
might have the eventual effect of
alienating, a country which the
‘geopolitical’ trend of the times
has suddenly elevated to even
greater importance than it
attained in the Second World
War, greater than it has attained
since the Peninsular War. The
idealistic, ideological or propa-
gandist objections to hastening
its end are powerfully voiced,
but they have probably lost some
of their former force. The ten-
dency in international politics is
to put off the most difficult de-
cisions, but prolonged waste of
time may have to be paid for at
a high price.”
On the U.S. attitude, a
Scripps-Howard Washington re-
port states: “There is reason to
believe the United States and
other Atlantic Pact Powers soon
will resume freedom of action
with regard to Spain, certainly
this year.”
That “Commonwealth.”
A letter-writer in N, Y.
“Times” expresses a view on
the British Commonwealth
arrangement that isn’t confined
to himself, or to Americans,
either, for that matter:
“I don’t want any Briton try-
ing to tell me that this grouping
is one unit,
“Don’t let’s permit anyone to
try to sell us the idea that in the
event of war Malaya, India,
Ceylon, etc., will gladly join the
battle against the Asiatic nation
we’ll probably have to fight if
war comes. Don’t let’s permit
anyone to add up the popula-
tions of the member nations of
the Commonwealth of Nations
and try to persuade us that they
are all one, and that we can
count upon them.
“Writing as an American who
just doesn’t want to be kidded
by a lot of fast talk, I think we
should value the Common-
wealth of Nations on the basis
of Great Britain, Canada, Aus-
tralia, New Zealand and, pos-
sibly, South Africa. On such a
basis we’ll be recognising the
cold, hard facts of life.”
The Bear Shuffles.
One of the few to have main-
tained, during the past year or
more of alarms, that there would
be no early West-Soviet war,
David Lawrence, in N. Y.
“Sun,” interprets the recent
Soviet moves, beginning with
the lifting of the Berlin block-
ade, as meaning a definite
Kremlin change of method.
“The Russians have tried
coercion and have found that
the Allies cannot be coerced....
In all the discussion about lift-
ing the blockade, no explana-
tion has been made as to why
Russia did not attach a single
condition before agreeing to end
file controversy over the use of
the railroads into Berlin,
Usually a nation puts in some
face-saving clause or asks for
such a method of termination as
will not indicate that one side or
the other has gained a point. In
this instance, the Russians were
willing to let the whole world
know that they yielded —the
whole world except, perhaps,
the people behind the Iron Cur-
tain, ~
— N. Y. “World-Telegram.”
WHAT PRICE VICTORY?
“On the assumption that the
most pressing problems of
Russia are internal, and-that war
is as unpopular there as inside
the United States, it can be
readily seen that Russia, without
Marshall-Plan help, feels the
pinch and looks ahead to an
even more trying situation on
the economic side
“It was the Marshall Plan’s
success that doubtless caused the
change in Russian policy. It
was the constant reiteration of
the case of the Allies in all parts
of the world that brought the
Russian rulers to make an all-
important decision in the direc-
tion of peaceful relations.
“It is natural that there should
be caution where there has been
distrust, but in the long history
of diplomacy it rarely happens
that a major change in policy is
made for one incident or one
brief period. The . Russians
plainly have abandoned coercion
and are trying Western diplo-
macy. It is a healthful sign
and proves that ideas sometimes
penetrate even iron curtains.”
U.S. Rules Germany.
Regarding the attempts at
shaping Germany’s future,
the “Atlantic Monthly” has
handed J. Bull a useful sort of
advance “alibi”:
“Nationalisation of basic in-
dustries in the Ruhr, to which
the British Government was
publicly committed, was shelved
at the behest of the United
States. And at a single stroke
last July, against the will of the
British Government, economic
controls were lifted from more
than 400 commodities in the
combined American and British
zones of Germany.
“As the United States has de-
cided irrevocably to put recovery
first in Germany and Japan, the
British have no choice other
than to face the consequent
threat to their export drive in
coming years.”
Doctors Must Tell.
A regulation in Britain’s
socialised-health scheme reads:
“A practitioner is requested to
keep records of the illness of his
patients and of his treatment of
them in such form as the Minis-
ter may from time to time de-
termine.”
Those records must be for-
warded, when so ordered, to a
local executive —mostly a lay
body—and must be sent to the
Minister on the death of a
patient. Moreover, the records
must at all times be accessible
to the Government’s district
medical officer and the local
medical committee.
Commenting on that ukase.
Dr. Ernest Graham-Little, Inde-
pendent member for London
University in the Commons, has
stated:
“Truly, the Hippocratic ideal
which has determined the com-
plete confidence of the patient
in his doctor in regard to pro-
fessional secrecy has been sadly
shattered.
“The doctors are, in the
future, to be subjected to the
degrading position of breaking
the Hippocratic oath when hav-
ing to submit to the Minister’s
appointed snoopers.
“Clearly, these new breaches
of professional confidence, gov-
erned and regulated by the
Minister of Health, must be
challenged and made impos-
sible.”
French Recovery.
Like Britain, France is re-
ported to be making a slow-but-
sure climb back to something
like itself, London “Times”
Paris correspondent stating in
the course of a general survey
that the signs of economic re-
covery there “are at last unmis-
takable.”
The “Times” man puts the
best face possible on it by taking
the rather poor year of 1938 for
his comparisons, but at least he
is able to show increases last
year of 17 per cent, above 1938
in heavy industries and of nearly
one-third above in agriculture.
More significant, the planned
targets are being actually passed
and the rate is being consider-
ably more than maintained.
Heavy - industry output in
February this year, for example,
was 42 per cent, above the
monthly average for 1938 and
23 per cent, above that of a year
ago.
Still, as in Britain, “it re-
mains that, however much the
French may feel that their
economy is on the mend, last
year’s progress could not have
been achieved without over
$1,000,000,000-worth of free im-
ports.”
The vital importance of that
Marshall-Plan aid “is now
realised by most Frenchmen.”
When it has been more
thoroughly grasped and the
French are ready to act accord-
ingly, “then the complete re-
covery of France will, the con-
tingency of war apart, be swift
and sure.”
Monty’s ‘Take” Post.
Contending that making the
Atlantic Pact work is going to be
“more difficult than most people
suppose,” a Washington “Post”
correspondent suggests that the
worst thing that could happen
would be “general acceptance of
a fake, like the fake military
headquarters of the Brussels
Powers at Fontainebleau,”
which, he adds, has now reached
the stage of evoking sad smiles
from any informed European.
“Field-Marshal Montgomery
is theoretically supreme com-
mander. The French Gen. de
Lattre de Tassigny is theoreti-
cally commander of Western
Union’s ground-forces. The
Western Union chiefs-of-staff
have a committee which sits, not
in Fontainebleau, but in Lon-
don. Able, even brilliant men
are involved in these peculiar
arrangements. But the disper-
sion of authority, the conciliation
of petty pride, the complexity of
organisation, have been carried
to such lengths that the entire
machine is useless.”
Dragnet Digest.
Upsetting for Comrades. —One de-
velopment in the trial of the 11 top-
dog U.S. Corns might be calculated
to give all American Comrades a bad
touch of the jitters. So far the
prosecution has produced no fewer
than seven supposed quite important
Corns who were actually “plants’
working inside the party for the'
Federal Bureau of Investigation. On
the job since 1945, they worked in
the Corn’s outfit in New England,
New York, Maryland, Michigan, Wis-
consin and Missouri. The headache
for the Corns is how many more of
these “plants” there may be among
them.
* * * *
Pacific Policies. —The usually well-
informed “U.S. News and World
Report” has stated that policies for
the Pacific and its Asian fringes were
fixed at a diplomatic meeting in New
Delhi. Talk of a Pacific pact was
considered premature. “The U.S.
role, in the main, is to act as peace-
maker in Indonesia, big brother in
Philippines and in Japan; the idea is
to make these islands strong, stable.
The British role, by agreement with
U.S., is to keep Communists under
control in Malaya, do what can be
done to stabilise things in Burma,
India, Pakistan. U.S. economic aid,
via the Marshall Plan, can flow into
Indonesia and Indo-China as soon as
things quiet down. What this amounts
to is a division of responsibility
between Britain and U.S. It also
shows limits of U.S. military interest
as things are now.”
* * * ♦
New Wool-spinning Device . —Re-
ported by a Bradford (Eng.) corres-
pondent of N. Y. “Journal of Com-
merce,” a new British wool-spinning
device “has been greeted by tech-
nical experts and wool-research scien-
tists as probably the most outstanding
advance in wool-manipulation in the
past 100 years or more.” The device
“is already in commercial use in
Britain and offered to the industry
at large as an appliance which can
be fitted to types of spinning-plant
now in general use.” Known as the
Amber Superdraft System, the device
is described as "a system of high-
speed drafting which is said to
eliminate much of the drawing process
lately in universal use and reduces by
about two-thirds the amount of labor
and machinery normally used in the
preparing processes of worsted spin-
ning.”
* * * *
Britain:' s Air-lift Share. —Criticising
U.S. Secretary of Defence Johnson
for being ungenerous in not giving
Britain its due share of praise for
the Berlin air-lift. Washington “Post”
has pointed out tnat Britain had flown
20 per cent, of the cargo to Berlin,
that 22 British airmen paid with their
lives along with the 27 Americans;
and that “actually the number of
British flights was substantially greater
than the cargo total would indicate
because the planes are smaller than
their American counterparts. Com-
paratively speaking, the British con-
tribution represented an even greater
strain than the American.”
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Loss Complex.”—An important
adverse effect of Britain’s current
socialising experiments noted by
Britain’s shipping leader Sir George
Christopher is the “indecision” to
which all nationalising gives rise.
There was also, he added, a “Phari-
saical hypocrisy concerning what is
sneeringly called the profit-motive.
If incentive was removed, a few fine
souls would perhaps keep on, but
the vast majority would, in the end,
languish in ineptitude and finally in
want. Recent events arising out of
Government control of industry sug-
gest an orientation of view away
from a healthy profit-motive towards
what it is scarcely unfair to describe
as a loss complex.”


—the first ignition
battery was an
EXIDL
I
I
—the first lighting
battery was an
EXIDE.
I
—the first starting,
lighting and ignition
battery was an EXIDE.
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD., 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
MAKE
PERSONAL ITEMS
Lately shipped through Sydney to take
command of Maoriland’s cruiser Bellona,
one of the few six-inchers in commission
in the S.W. Pacific, Captain Roland
Watkin was here in the closing stages
of World War II with the British 27th
Destroyer Flotilla. One of his watch-
keeping officers then was Lieutenant
Mountbatten, now Duke of Edinburgh,
Set to oppose J. J. Dedmian in Corio,
Liberal selection Hubert Opperman began
bike-pushing at 16, and four years later
was Australian road champion. “Four”
seemed to be his number. He held the
championship for four years ; four years
after he first won it he carried off the
French Bel d’Or; he was in France
captaining the Australian touring team in
1930, and four years after that won the
Bidlake Memorial Prize in England.
Then he really started to travel; his
spinning wheels captured the world’s un-
paced track record of 489 miles, then
the unpaced road record of 505| miles,
and, car-paced, he pedalled 1000 miles
in five minutes under 29 hours—an aver-
age of over 34 m.p.h. “Oppy” had
several years with the R.A.A.F. in Hitler’s
war, then went on to a directorship of
Bruce Small’s, the bike people. Recrea-
tion —cycling.
The July 5 issue of the Scottsdale
(Tas.) “North Eastern Advertiser” will
bear the imprint of Bill Christie. A
1915 graduate from Duntroon, he wasted
no time applying his knowledge with the
First A.1.F., and left that force with
major’s rank and three “mentions” ; in
the next war he was a brigadier. After
17 years managing the advertising of
Melbourne “Sun” he shifted to the ad-
vertising directorship of that city’s
“Argus” before buying his present enter-
prise.
Sworn in last week as Queensland’s
Attorney-General, G. H. Devries 24 years
ago was bookkeeper in the A.W.U.’s
office at Lougreach. A crowded life—to
be expected of a man born in the Bay of
Biscay aboard a ship his father com-
manded —includes time as sailor, miner,
champion amateur boxer and, with the
old 15th Battalion, a Digger in France and
Belgium. Since 1941 he has represented
Gregory in the Queensland Assembly:
second-largest of the State’s electorates,
it stretches from Longreach in the north
down to the S. Australian border. He
will administer Queensland’s price-
control as well as its laws.
Some Birthday Honors;
Knight Edmund Herring adds K.C.M.G. to
the line or two of honors he already wears.
A two-war Digger, he was in France and
Macedonia with the 8.E.F., and came out
with D. 5.0., M.C. and a “mention.” In
Hitler’s outbreak he held half-a-dozen senior
appointments, including G.O.C. of the 6th
Division in its savage fighting of 1941-42 and
a similar command with the Ist Australian
Corps in New Guinea in 1943. Victorian
Rhodes Scholar for 1912, he was called to the
Bar in London in 1920, and was Victoria’s
Chief Justice when he took on its Lieutenant-
Governorship.
New-knight Thomas Maltby, Speaker of the
Victorian Assembly, is likewise a two-war
Digger. Son of a Manxman, he graduated from
the Bendigo School of Mines into politics by
way of the Barwon (Vic.) seat in 1929, and
has been in politics ever since. He was Vic-
torian Deputy-Premier in 1945.
Alexander David Ross’s size of frame will
just about manage the extra weight of his new
C.8.E.; it already supports a crushing load
of decorations. A cheery little Scot from Glas-
gow, he came to Australia at 29 with all the
honors of Glasgow and Gottingen upon him.
Now Professor of Mathematics and Physics
at Westralia’s University, he was president of
the Scottish branch of the Royal Astronomical
Society, and a member of the Crocker solar-
research expedition. A world authority on
some phases of spectroscopy and astrophysics,
he is human enough to run also to a broad
Scottish humor and a large fund of witty
stories.
N.S.W. and Queensland were behind the door
this year.
On the British list of new knights,
Robert Fraser, director-general of the
British Central Office of Information,
hails from Adelaide. St, Peter’s College
and Melbourne ’Varsity graduate, he went
to London School of Economics for his
B.Sc., stayed writing leaders for the
Labor “Daily Herald” and shaped his
ideas into a book, What’s What in Politics,
which has been described as a primer of
the game. Voters, however, weren’t im-
pressed—the author lost seats for Labor
in two elections. In World War II his
voice was heard throughout the Pacific
area on 8.8. C. news-transmissions, and
when, after the war, the Ministry of In-
formation adopted its present name he
became its head. He’s now 45.
When by the grace of Melbourne
“Herald” the University of Melbourne
received its chair of Fine Arts in 1947, its
first professor was Joseph Terence Burke,
an alert-faced, 36-year-old Londoner.
Last week he accepted a life tenure of
the office, the day after delivering the
Syme Oration to a distinguished collec-
tion of Australia’s top-ranking medicos
at a Brisbane conference of the Royal
Australasian College of Surgeons. Edu-
cated at the Courtauld Institute of Art
in London and at Yale (U.S.A.), Burke’s
speciality is 18th-century English painters,
particularly Hogarth. Hardly surprising,
as his mother painted and so did Joseph,
on everything and anything he could find,
though now his “interests are more
scholarly than arty. With the Victoria
and Albert Museum when Hitler opened
fire, he was seconded to the Home Office,
to become in turn private secretary to
Lords President of fhe Councils Sir John
Anderson, Mr. Attlee and Lord Woolton.
He then served Prime Minister Attlee in
the same capacity. An orator of mark,
Professor Burke disclaims, despite the
name, any Celtic blood in his veins
—his family have been Londoners for
over a century.
The Rev. H. W. Nunn, precentor of
St. Paul’s Cathedral, Melbourne, minis-
tered in War II to Diggers in New Guinea
and the Solomons. Now he’s transferring
his ministrations to the blue-water men;
•he joins the R.A.N. shortly.
Gaiety sometimes comes to the usually
austere concert-platform in the guise of
an outsize in human frames from which
emanates a light silvery tenor, or a
sawn-off with a reverberating basso-
profundo. But basso Oscar Natzka, who
opens a brief Sydney season next week,
has a chassis to match his big voice—-
he’s 6ft. 3in. high and spreads sideways
in proportion. Immediately you crane
up at Oscar you think what a magnificent
Mephistopheles he would make. When
he does put on the tall lid affected by
Sarastro, the high priest in “The Magic
Flute,” the singer would have to duck
to get through a 7ft. door, A Maori-
lander,,Natzka drove Canadian warships in
the last war until the closing months,
when he was detailed to garner 150
talented servicemen to tour Canada and
England giving concerts —his beard is a
hangover from those days in the north
Atlantic. Since the war he has been
OSCAR NATZKA, big bass.
singing opera in England and the U.S.
He toured S. Africa, and while there
included an aria from Boito’s “Mefis-
tofele,” which requires the singer to
give some piercing whistles through
fingers between his teeth —this coming
easy to Oscar, he having been raised on
a 12,000-acre property. Next morning
one critic remarked that “Mr, Natzka,
who forgot some of the words, had to
fill in by whistling it.”
The genial dial diagrammed here by
Prior is the sole property of Bill Yeo
(pronounced “Yo”), N.S.W.’s new R.S.L.
State president. An Old Digger of the
18th Battalion, and of Gallipoli and
France, Yeo returned from those parts to
take on a soldier-settlement block at Peak
Hill, near Parkes (N.S.W.), which he still
farms. Diggers’ plight in the depression
years moved him to the active interest
on their behalf which he has practised
BILL YEO, State R.S.L. president.
since, with 14i years as secretary of his
sub-branch and 13£ years of represent-
ing the Western District on the State
council of the League. His prime interest
now*is to seal the split which opened
when anti-Communist activity in the
League was interpreted by Labor sym-
pathisers as a loaded gun aimed at them.
Corns, he believes, can be adequately dealt
with constitutionally. As a private, Yeo
has a claim to being the lowest in
rank to hold the presidency, though he
admits some grounds for the counter-
claim to that distinction of Len Robb,
a one-time president and now secretary
to the Governor. The answer lies in
whether a private or a sapper is the low-
est of the low.
Last week in Sydney the first airliner
flight to the city was commemorated.
Flight-engineer of the plane, a Sopwith
Wallaby, was Arthur Butler, now manag-
ing-director of Butler Air Transport. Son
of a Welshman from the Vale of Clwydd,
he was a ground engineer at Hay before
launching his own aircraft business in
1929. Next year he designed, constructed
and air-tested Australia’s first all-metal
plane, and followed that achievement by
breaking the England-Australia record in
the smallest aircraft to be flown between
these countries. Now just turned 47, he
is anchored at Mascot, and away from
the tarmac relaxes at chess and golf.
One of the last links with the roaring
Vosper-“Smiler” Hales days of Westralia
snapped when Harry C. Davies passed on
in Perth. Born in Melbourne in the
’seventies, Davies was a young opal-
gouger in N.S.W. before heading for the
West, where for over 40 years he wrote
on trade, finance and mining for the
“West Australian,” and contributed min-
ing notes to The Bulletin’s “Wild Cat.”
His pen, pungent and deflatory, left many
Westralian wild-cats with little enough
fur to call their own. When the Hamp-
ton Plains (W.A.) boom frenzied the
Adelaide Stock Exchange shortly after
World War I, Davies visited the field,
pronounced that the Celebration and
White Hope mines had slight prospects
and the rest of the field was valuable
mainly for grazing. For this service
speculators burned him in effigy in
Hannan - street, Kalgoorlie. Davies
travelled extensively, to the Yukon, Lon-
don, Jo’burg, wherever gold was; he was
planning a winter in Cairns when an acci-
dent caused his death.
To command 78 Fighter Wing, which
will fly Vampire jets, Wing-commander
J. R. Perrin, D.F.C., is a Yarrasider who
joined the R.A.A.F. the year war broke,
got his wings with No. 3 Squadron and
left with it for the Middle East in 1940.
On patrol there he caught up with Stukas
wreaking havoc on Australian troops.
Perrin ordered his flight in, and himself
accounted for a Stuka and a Messerschmitt
before a cannon-shell in one leg sent
him down to crash-land 150 yards from
the nearest timber. On his staggering run
across, the Hun planes strafed and hit
him again. But he made it, and returned
to more fighting nearer home with 76
Kittyhawk Squadron, operating in the
Islands. Staff appointments to London
and Washington followed, before he
assumed command of 81 Wing in Japan,
where he was until the new appointment.
He’s credited with eight kills.
F. P. Cruttenden, who collapsed and
died after his colt Heliofly had won the
City Handicap at Victoria Park, Adelaide,
joined the owners’ ranks when he part-
nered W. J. Smith in Sydney in the
“Smithden” combination which raced
Kuvera, King’s Cup winner in 1933. Re-
turning to Adelaide a few years ago
Cruttenden retained several mares at
Warlaby stud, at Oaklands Junction,
Victoria, where two of the country’s most
successful sires, Helios and Dhoti, also
board. With E. A. Underwood, owner
of the stud, he raced some of their pro-
geny in Melbourne, winning a V.R.C. St.
Leger with Lungi. Across the globe in
Paris another racing identity died under
apparently the same stress —M. L. Vol-
terra, whose colt Amour Drake was just
pipped in the English Derby.
A Canterbury College product, M. L.
McGlashan, collects the first Arthur
Sims Empire Scholarship in Maoriland.
It opens British universities to the
for research in physics, chemistry, medi-
cine and maths. Hailing from Grey-
mouth, in the South Island, McGlashan
has figured in dramatics, including a
tour of Australia with the College Club.
Reading University is his next stop, to
study thermo-dynamics.
Passed on in Brisbane, Edmund
Sweeney, Boer War veteran, teamster
and fine horseman. A member of the
Fifth Queensland contingent in that war,
he was recommended for the V.C. for
a little drama of gallantry. In a brisk
action one Queenslander had his horse
shot from under him. Sweeney wheeled,
galloped back under fire, hoisted the dis-
mounted man behind him and headed
back —and into a bullet that hit him in
the chest and bowled him out of the
saddle. Despite Sweeney’s exhortations
to the other to clear for his life,
naturally enough his mate refused to
leave him and finally hauled him to
safety. That mate is former police-
sergeant Adams, of Cabarlah, near
Toowoomba, now living in Sydney. As it
was, Sweeney collected a D.C.M.
Into the Silence:
At Port Hedland (W.A.), at 74, William
Moxam, an old-timer who had driven camels
and cattle and prospected through the north-
west for 50 years. In 1910, with two mates,
he discovered the Ragged Hills leadfields.
At Wellington (M.L.), at 78, Professor G. W.
von Zedlitz, principal of Wellington University
Tutorial School. German by birth, he was
educated in England, gaining his M.A. at
Oxford. A distinguished scholar and translator
of foreign documents, he was chairman of the
Literary Committee of the National Centennial
of 1938-40.
At Apia, at 49, Major Eric Lloyd, in charge
of the broadcasting station there. He served
with the Ist A.I.F. and with the ML. and
Fiji forces in the second scrap.
In Melbourne, Lady Lyle, who pioneered
animal-welfare work in Victoria, starting a ser-
vice for Melbourne’s waif dogs at her home in
Toorak. She gave large benefactions to the
Animal Welfare League and instituted the pain-
less lethalising of injured members of the brute
creation.
In Sydney, at 87, J. C. Farleigh, M.L.C.
from 1908 to 1933. A former president of the
Chamber of Manufacturers and of the Master
Tanners’ Assoc. , -
In Melbourne, at 79, R. W. Wilmot, one-time
“Argus” staff man and well-known sportsman
—he initiated the Victorian amateur boxing
championships. Chester Wilmot, 8.8. C. com-
mentator and journalist, is his son.
At 77, in Brisbane, John Benstead, a presi-
dent of Queensland’s Teachers’ Union and the
man mainly responsible for founding the State’s
primary correspondence school, which, when he
retired, had 6000 country children on its mail-
ing list.
In Melbourne, William Bennett, successor to
George Crowley as managing-director of the
City Mutual Life.
At Miles (s.-e. Q.), L. I. Longwill, old-boy
of Sydney’s Shore, 28 years a grazier in the
Charleville district, and member of the First
A.I.F. cricket-team.
In Perth, at 88, William Saw, surveyor and
one-time assistant Registrar of Titles in
Westralia. He was assistant-surveyor to Lord
Forrest (then deputy Surveyor-General) on two
of that explorer’s surveys into the Great
Southern and Gascoyne areas. In retirement
he became president of Perth’s Town Planning
Association.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
From the doorway where, on the right-
hand side, the exhibit of the War Veterans
met the gaze —two glorious lengths of
tartan in the display, leather handbags
and week-end bags splendid enough for a
Rita Hayworth—the C.W.A. Handcrafts’
exhibition was a series of well-chosen,
artistically set-out displays. There was,
for instance, the artificial flowers;
luscious and exotic blooms were neigh-
bors to the rose, the gardenia and the
simpler garden beauties. The significant
orange-blossom was not forgotten. A
circlet fit for the head of a prince’s bride
was in the forefront. Noah’s grand-
children never had more cuddly
animals, nor more extraordinary ones,
than the toys made of felt. The
finest of lace and lace embroideries en-
riched linen supper-cloths. There were
carpets and snowy sheepskin toys which
can be washed and scoured. There was
canna fibre, which in time may take the
place of jute in making our own wool-
packs and bagging, and a sample of abo-
rigine weaving in which rabbit-fur and
wool make softer-than-silk texture.
The opening in David Jones’s Gallery
was the popular afternoon event of the
week. The Governor’s daughter, Eliza-
beth Northcott, made introductory
speech, and Mrs, Basil Foulds’s busy
little ticker notched up an audience of
almost 800. Much admired was the
nursery, everything in it handmade.
Handcrafts from the aborigine school at
Collarenebri were a point of interest.
The Widows’ Might and not just the
Widows’ Mite is what the War Widows’
Guild promises to become. And every
woman is behind all movement to make
smoother the lot of the war widow and
orphan. Anyway, at the Federal Con-
ference attended by delegates from all
States and held under the presidency of
Mrs. G. A. Vasey in Sydney’s Rural
Bank last week forcible argument was
brought forward against the deduction
of the holiday earnings of such children
from the higher-education allowance
granted to their mothers; against the
right of officialdom to lay down a special
commandment on the “private lives of
war widows.” There was also discus-
sion on the hoarding of war funds going
back apparently to Boer War days. Ways
in which such funds might disburse in
favor of holiday homes or club-rooms
for the war widows were pointed out.' A
mere male was overheard referring with
real admiration in his voice to Mrs. G.
A. Vasey as a “tornado of a woman.”
Then he added “But there’s nothing like
a high, strong wind to clear the
atmosphere,”
Delegates from other States included
Mrs. J. Edgley (Federal), Mrs. E.
Mayo and Mrs. R. D. Ellis from
South Australia, Westralians Mrs.
H. L. Forsythe and Mrs. A. L.
Fowler, Queenslanders Mrs. L. Smeeton
and Mrs, K. Wilson and Tas-
manian Mrs. K. O. Baton. Major Joyce
Snelling, president of the N.S.W. branch,
and Sydney members gave the visitors a
grand time. They held a reception for
them in Air Force House ; Mrs. E. Shaw
dispensed cocktails at the Australia. En
masse, visitors and members had a night
with a “Yank at King Arthur’s Court,”
preceded by a dinner party; and on
Saturday Mrs. A. Assheton gave a lunch
in her Pymble home to which all the
guests caracoled, by car, ancient and
modern, led by Mrs, G. A. Vasey in the
guild’s station-wagon.
The Women’s Auxiliary of the Royal
Empire Society is holding an “At Home”
at the Society’s rooms at 2.30 p.m. this
afternoon, when Mrs. G. Mack and Miss
M. Gillespie will be the hostesses. The
guest-of-honor will be Mrs. Bertram
Brooke (the Dayang Muja of Sarawak,
Borneo, sister-in-law of Sir Vyner
Brooke). There will be an hour or so
of music.
A dress for a Quakeress with the oomph
of Norman Hartnell’s art was worn by
pretty Mrs. R. Instone at the welcome-
home party given in her honor by Mrs,
Jessie Tomlinson. Of soft black cloth, the
frock had a slim bodice and wrist-length
sleeves and an ankle-length skirt with a
flowing graceful fullness. A deep, flat
collar of rich brown fur was the right
finish for a wife whose husband had put
} slight dent in the bank at Monte Carlo —
it sounds more wonderful even than beat-
ing the books at Randwick. Mrs. In-
stone, known wherever flowers are loved
as Beatrice Stewart, has been in foreign
parts for 14 months. Italy seemed poor,
but was a delight. Her funniest experi-
ence was in Venice, when after dreamily
drifting down the Grand Canal in a
gondola, and murmuring “Lovely,
lovely” to all the romantic palaces pointed
out to her on its banks, the gondolier de-
claimed something with a great flourish.
“Lovely, beautiful!” she uttered auto-
matically, only to find that he was sug-
gesting “Beer for the gondolier.”
The party was one of the brightest of
the week. It was in the cosy surround-
ings of the Queen’s Club. The hostess
wore with her black ensemble a neck-
lace of jade and a spray of lily-of-the-
valley. Sydney’s Lady Mayoress, Mrs.
O’Dea, came to greet the gdest-of-honor.
She was accompanied by the Town Hall’s
Hazel Wedlock. Mrs. W. McEJhone,
Noelle Brennan, Hilda Mullins, Mrs.
Derek Burnell, Mrs. Beaumont (just
down from the far North), and repre-
sentatives of the Victoria League, Busi-
ness and Professional Women’s Club, the
Lady Mayoress’s committee, were others
at the tea-drinking.
Marjorie Lawrence, famed throughout
the world for superb singing and great
courage, opens the Sydney season of her
Australian tour in the Town Hall on
Saturday, June 25.
Guests of the committee of the Twelfth
Dragon Festival Ball held last night at
the Trocadero were Sister Christine New
Peck and Sister Chan Ping Ping. These
two ladies arrived early this year from
Malaya under the Eighth Division Nurs-
ing Scholarship and are now at the
Children’s Hospital at Camperdown.
Later they will go on to various other
hospitals for post-graduate training. An-
other guest of note was Matron Gardiner,
of the Camperdown Children’s Hospital.
Last week a group of her girl-friends
from Sydney flew down to Melbourne
with good wishes for the coming-of-age
party of Moya Therese Chapman. Moya
is the youngest child of Colonel and Mrs.
Jim Chapman, and helping their parents
entertain at the Royal South Yarra Tennis
Club were Moya’s ex-service brothers Jim
and Peter and an older sister, who flew
from Traralgon for the party—they had
celebrated their 21st birthdays away on
active service with the A.I.F. Moya is
a granddaughter of the late Sir Austin
and Lady Chapman, of this city.
Under an arch of flashing swords which
the commanding officer of the H.M.A.S.
Sydney, Captain Dowling, helped to
form passed Major Gordon Hardcastle
and his bride, formerly Rosemary Boase,
after their wedding in-St. Mark’s, Darl-
ing Point, last week. Rosemary is the
only daughter of Lieut.-General Boase
(G.O.C. Southern Command), and her
parents came up to Sydney for the wed-
ding. Bridegroom is air-liaison officer in
H.M.A.S. Sydney, and it is claimed that
this is the first time an Army officer has
held such an appointment. A long tulle
veil and a lovely frock of ivory and
silver moire were worn by the bride,
who carried hyacinths. Her two attend-
ants, Mrs. Neil Boase and Constance
Allen, wore long and swaying frocks of
silver-pink faille and gleaming Juliet
caps. Reception was held at Rancliff.
The first two nets have been cast to haul
in treasure for the Women Writers’ drive
for its Friendly Fund. The Women
Writers scarcely ever make appeal for
this fund, which is considered a family
affair. But now it is out after big money
—well, say £3OO. The committee feels
that this will enable the small cheques
sent out during the year to be a little
bigger to meet the increased east of
everything. Vice-president, Mrs; Florence
Taylor, is giving a “subscription” dinner
on Sunday, June 19. This will be, how-
ever, almost entirely a members’ affair.
Mrs. Mary Gaynor, another v.p., is
arranging a bridge-party. There will be
other functions when the help from the
Women Writers’ friends will be wel-
comed.
From Melbourne
In proud recognition of 18 years of
splendid service to the Children’s Hospital,
a two-tiered birthday cake decorated with
18 colored candles centred the table at
the buffet-luncheon party held at the home
of Mrs. Samuel J. Fletcher, wife of the
U.S. Consul-General. The party was
given by the American Women’s
Auxiliary. Decoration comprised the red
of holly berries, white hydrangea and
the blue of cornflower. Assisting Mrs.
Fletcher as hostess were Mrs. W, W.
Killough, president of the auxiliary, whose
black frock carried an etched floral
design in blue and red; Mrs. John
Molyneux, in an aqua-blue jacket-suit;
Mrs. Tom Blarney, also in blue; Mrs.
Herbert Allen and Mesdames L. E.
Tewkesbury, William Adamson and D. J.
Lampard. Mrs. Fletcher’s frock was of
Parma-violet wool-crepe. Mrs. Harold
Rabling, who will soon leave for a six-
months visit to the U.S.A. with her hus-
band, wore silver-fox over her black
frock ; her hat was trimmed with black
ospreys.
Mrs, Harold E. Bettle wore a black
jacket-suit and a hat of grey felt which
had a wide, upturned brim and draped
crown. Mrs. Alan Newton, who has just
returned from a visit to her parents in
America, wore with her brown woollen
frock gold ornaments and a small beige
felt hat. Mrs. Alex Coates, who topped
her mink coat with a feather-trimmed hat,
was accompanied by her daughter Sally
Jean, just returned from two years in
the U.S.A. Mrs. E, A. Watts combined
a black Persian-lamb coat and a small
black hat trimmed with pastel-pink roses.
Mrs. A. E. Hotchkiss, who later sang
for the guests, wore a mink coat over
her black frock. After lunch plans for
the Star-Spangled Ball on July 8 in the
Exhibition Building were discussed. Mrs.
E, C. Daum is ticket-chairman; tel.
U 8337. In the auxiliary’s 18 years of
existence, over £25,000 has been given to
the hospital. Of this, over £6OOO was
donated by the Australian-American
Association.
Beverley Buxton, who was ticket secre-
tary for the Red Cross dance, held in
the recently-opened Delphic Club, is the
second daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Len
Buxton, of Armadale. Beverley was
educated at Sacre Coeur Convent, and is
now deciding on a career. Photo by
Athol Shmith.
The Consul-General for Greece, Dr. E.
Vrisakis, and Mrs. Vrisakis came from
Sydney for the Red Cross dance at the
Delphic. A generous gift to the Red
Cross was the use of the Delphic, and
the appetising five-course supper by the
management of the club, which is to be
the centre of Greek community life in this
city. The Delphic, which is decorated in
terra-cotta and blue, will also be leased
for wedding receptions and dances. Huge
bowls of autumn foliage and hydrangea
and centre-pieces of russet-toned chrysan-
themums formed the decorations. Mrs.
Vrisakis danced in a gown of bronze
slipper-satin which had a draped over-
skirt and an off-the-shoulder bodice of
beige lace. Mrs. A. Nicolades, the wife
of Melbourne’s Greek Consul, wore a
gown of black sheer fashioned with a
finely-pleated skirt and with clusters of
glittering sequins on the shoulders of
the bodice. Mrs. Howard Buchanan, wife
of the chairman of the Victorian division
of Red Cross, was gowned in black
velvet; the square-cut neckline being
caught with diamente clips.
Beverley Buxton’s bouffant gown was
of green faille patterned in etched gold
leaves. Mrs. Myer Sutherland’s geranium
chiffon gown had a tulip skirt and folded
bodice. Paddy Finn allied a japonica-
pink blouse with a black silk jersey skirt
and added a striped satin sash. Mrs.
Frank Worthington combined effectively
a white organza bouffant skirt and black
velvet bodice. Mrs. V. Robieson’s black
ninon goWn had narrow stripes of
hyacinth-blue. Mrs. Alan Spowers’s
American Beauty crepe gown was worn
with a marabou cape in deeper tonings.
Sequins trimmed the black gown worn
by Mrs. Basil Logus. Mrs. Len Buxton’s
gown was of heavy parchment satin. Mrs.
Norman Myer was in grey satin.
Marjorie Lawrence persuaded the big
audience at her final concert to stand
and sing with her “Auld Lang Syne.”
The singer’s beautiful gown was of heavy
white satin, lavishly trimmed with silver
sequins; diamonds glittered on her arms
and in her hair. At the close of the
recital the stage was heaped with flowers.
Against a background; of soft grey and
light wood furnishings Douglas Cox’s
mannequins presented Christian Dior
model copies and adaptations of spring
and summer fashions. There is an
absence of fussiness in the new lines, for
the silhouettes are as muted as the fabrics
of which the creations are made. There
is not a bizarre note in the collection.
Cleverly-cut skirts give an illusion of a
fullness which is not there. Skirt-lengths
vary from 13in. to Min. from the ground,
according to the type of garment and
the wearer. The ballerina-length for
cocktail- and dinner-frocks is as popular
as it ever was, and waistlines are still de-
fined ; shoulders rounded and bodices
moulded to. the figure or slightly draped.
By day, necklines are high, but the after-
-5 p.m. dresses have very deep necklines.
Dior’s favorite bow-knot neckline was
the highlight of many of the model copies.
These frocks owe a lot of their beauty to
the glorious failles, bengalines, ottoman,
moire and taffeta, whilst quite a number
were of shot taffeta and shot bengaline.
Black for formality still holds pride of
place. Pockets are important this season,
and on both frocks and coats Dior uses
his “window-box” pockets. Collars are
also accented. The double directoire
collar has the outer one in a contrasting
color to the frock; the Byron collar,
high and wide, was featured on a number
of coats. A black moire taffeta frock
for cocktail parties had a neckline which
was slashed across to one side, there to
finish in a large bow. For casual wear,
perhaps the slub-linens are the most inter-
esting. An orchid slub-linen frock was
made more interesting by a simulated
cape edged with white daisies. With this,
the first of the new collections shown, it
was very evident that milady will walk
in beauty through the sunny days of next
season.
Large bowls of autumn flowers deco-
lated the Lady Mayoress’s room at the
Town Hall for the meeting of the Vera
Scantlebury Brown Memorial Fund Com-
mittee, The Lady Mayoress, Mrs. J. S.
Disney, wore a black tailored suit and
a matching hat which had a black velvet
scarf drapery and touches of gold trim-
ming. The Angliss lady presided, and
encouraging reports were read, among
them one that Paterson, Laing and Bruce,
of Flinders-lane, were to hold a spring-
fashion showing of Hugh Beresford and
Anice model hats. This will be compered
by a well-known radio personality, after-
noon tea will be served, and there will
be items by stage celebrities. Date is
August 11 and price of tickets 10s. 6d.
Among those at the meeting were the
Connelly lady; the hon. sec. of the
Appeal, Mrs. Aubrey Gibson, and
Mesdames A. McLean, I. A. Green, R. T.
A. McDonald, Mrs. Garnet Carroll, who
is convenor of an entertainments com-
mittee, and Miss Linda Byron Moore.
A cold, miserable day for the first of
the King’s-birthday meetings at Flem-
ington. Furs and heavy tweeds were in
favor, while a number wore suede boots
lined with fur. One smart racegoer wore
boots topped with leopardskin, and her
small hat was of the same fur. Mrs. J.
Bowen Pain caught the eye in a Peter
Russell coat of orchid tweed, the tops
of her shoes being of similar material;
her cloche hat was in the same toning.
A brown-fox collar enriched the brown
velour coat worn by Mrs. Ron Cameron
with her brown hat, which sported an
orange - toned feather mount. Her
daughter Keera had cerise feathers
clustered at each side of her pastel-blue
hat, which she wore with a black Persian-
lamb-trimmed coat. Marie Daly’s trim
red velvet ensemble had for company a
Dutch bonnet of -the same material.
Shirley Davies added a saucy brown
quilled beret to her beige coat; inset
panels at the back added fullness to her
skirt.
The Lady Mayoress, Mrs. J. S. Disney,
wore an English coat of caramel-toned
corded velvet, the skirt cut on flared
lines; her small hat was in the same
tonings. The Wales lady topped her
dyed-ermine coat with a small black hat
trimmed with powder-blue taffeta bows.
Mrs. Peter Tronson’s scarlet coat was
matched by her hat. Mrs. M. Sallmann
combined camel-hair coat and small
brown cloche hat. A lime-green wool
sweater added contrast to Mrs, Eric
Fowler’s black jacket-suit. Her sister,
Eileen Ryan, was in tailored greys and a
matching hat. Mrs. Alfred Fowler’s
light-grey tweed suit was worn with a
matching full-length coat.


Divorce Notices.
NOTICE OF CITATION.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
No. 28 of 1948.
BETWEEN GEORGE LAWRENCE JOHN-
STON Petitioner and VIOLET NELLIE
JOHNSTON Respondent and WILLIAM P.
BRENNAN Co-respondent.
TO VIOLET NELLIE JOHNSTON late
of Primrose Street Rosebery in the State
of Tasmania AND TO WILLIAM P.
BRENNAN late of the same address. —
TAKE NOTICE that the said GEORGE
LAWRENCE JOHNSTON has commenced
a suit against you VIOLET NELLIE
JOHNSTON in this Honourable Court in
which suit you WILLIAM P. BRENNAN
are named as co-respondent and is apply-
ing for a dissolution of his marriage with
you the said VIOLET NELLIE JOHNSTON
on the grounds of your adultery with the
said WILLIAM P. BRENNAN and the
said WILLIAM P. BRENNAN’S adultery
with you and in the said suit the said
GEORGE LAWRENCE JOHNSTON is
claiming the sum of Six hundred pounds
( £600) from you the said WILLIAM P.
BRENNAN as damages in respect of the
said adultery AND TAKE NOTICE that
you the said VIOLET NELLIE JOHN-
STON and you the said WILLIAM P.
BRENNAN are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the office
of the Registrar of this Honourable Court
at Canberra on or before the .thirteenth
day of August One thousand nine hundred
and forty nine and in the event of
your not "doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the petitioner
may proceed and the suit be heard and
determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may
be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge.
DATED this twenty third day of May
1949.
R. G. BAILEY, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, London Circuit, City, Canberra,
Australian Capital Territory.
(1.5.) F. 0. P. KEANE, Registrar in
Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO HENRY FREDERICK NORTHWOOD
late of Telarah.—TAKE NOTICE that
NELLIE EVELYN NORTHWOOD has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1022 of
1949 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 15th August 1949 and
obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from J. R. GOLDSTON, Solicitor,
34 Martin Place, Sydney.— (L.s.) J.
DOUGHAN, Acting Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILFRED JOHN EVANS late
of Manilla. TAKE NOTICE that
DOROTHEA CHRISTINA EVANS has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 929 of
1949 on the ground of desertion without
just causa or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 24th August 1949 and
obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from J. R. GOLDSTON, Solicitor,
34 Martin Place, Sydney.— (l.s.) J.
DOUGHAN, Acting Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO FRANCIS ELLERY late of Shaw via
Blayney.—TAKE NOTICE that CLARISSA
ALMA ELLERY has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2411 of 1946 on the ground
of desertion for three years and upwards
without just cause or excuse If you wish
to defend this suit you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 26th day of August 1949 A copy
of the petition herein may be obtained
without charge from W. R. L’ESTRANGE
& MO'ORE, of Adelaide Street, Blayney,
Solicitors for the Petitioner. — (1.5.) J.
DOUGHAN, Acting Registrar in Divorce.
THE SERVICE MAN.
"Defence" Reviewed.
“fik Dum”: That curiously-
named body the Defence Pro-
gress' Review Committee, which
could only have been christened
by the kind of muddle-headed
Administration which deals with
the rhatter, has solemnly reported
to the Government that its five-
year defence programme is
lagging. And it has recom-
mended that another £20,000,000
be, added to the super-immense
and devastating allocation of
£250,000,000 to be spent over
five years, for which the people
at present are getting a half-
immobilised aircraft - carrier
squadron, some destroyers on
the stocks which are taking
longer to build than a first-clitss
battleship in England, an Air
Force which exists almost solely
on paper, a militia which con-
sists of a few Scottish battalions
armed at about 1940 standard,
operating in surroundings which
are without comfort and with-
out inspiration, enough perma-
nent administrative officials to
populate a decent-sized island
and enough warriors to provide
a Governor’s guard if there
doesn’t happen to be an influ-
enza epidemic.
It is only a few years since
Mr. Ward was shouting himself
hoarse against a total defence
estimate of £5,713,920 brought
forward by the Lyons Govern-
ment in 1936:
Panic-stricken, the Commonwealth
Government, along with the Imperial
Government, is spending an enormous
amount on what it claims to be
defence provisions, and is using the
same propaganda as was used to
usher in the Great War.... I should
not be prepared to take up arms
against the workers of any country,
whether they be German or any other
nationality.
But now with the Government
spending £50,000,000 a year in
some mysterious fashion which
it is difficult to explain except
that a lot of it is used on vote-
buying, it asks for another
£20,000,000 as the result, accord-
ing to Senator J. I. Armstrong,
of fresh burdens imposed
through “the increased costs of
materials and higher pay.”
Senator Armstrong, whose ex-
positions of defence theory are
a joy to all who hear them,
being of a nature which sug-
gest that they have been com-
posed by the ghosts of Mark
Twain and Josh Billings in col-
laboration, comforted his
hearers with the good news that
“work on the South Australian
long-range weapon-range was
proceeding satisfactorily, and
that the full-scale rocket-firing
tests would be held soon.”
The Council of Defence ex-
amined the progress of plans
for the co-ordination of defence
in the Pacific and Indian
Oceans. It should have been
easy. Except for Sir Patrick
Brind’s Far Eastern Squadron
of the R.N. and the R;A.N., a
few troops in Malaya which
are being added to from the
United Kingdom only, the
limited defence forces of Hong
Kong and the Pakistan Army
there is none to co-ordinate, and
neither Australia nor New Zea-
land can contribute for the
moment on the Army side, for
which there will be the greatest
call in case of emergency, be-
cause the Wards and the R. A,
Kings and the Holloways and
other admirers and fellow-travel-
lers of Russia and Communism
won’t let them. There is, of
course, the Indian Army, but
India so far has shown a disin-
clination to join in the scheme.
Russia is obviously trying to
prepare Pakistan to take a simi-
lar stand, and has invited its
Prime Minister to Moscow, but
will scarcely succeed.
The United States attitude is
clear. Its eyes are for the
moment on Europe and on the
Atlantic Pact. The Foreign Re-
lations Committee of the Senate,
which has urged the early rati-
fication of the Atlantic Pact,
has stated the position irrevoc-
ably, reporting that the United
States Government was not
considering participation in any
pact other than the Atlantic
Pact at present, and that if the
United States were to accept on
a world-wide basis commitments
similar to those which have been
adopted in Europe “we might
run the danger of spreading
ourselves too thinly.”
It is quite obvious that the
Americans will take their own
measures. Neither they nor any
other country with resources is
likely to give anything but last
preference in assistance to a
Commonwealth which will not
take* any steps worth the name
to defend itself and which re-
gards defence policy purely as
something to be used for party
ends.
No Government would be
likely to send compulsorily-en-
listed men to provide protection
for a land which refuses to
compel its own men to serve
and some of whose Ministers
won’t even go on a recruiting
platform and ask them to serve
voluntarily.
Mr. Chifley’s resume of the
progress of the meeting of the
Defence Council was thoroughly
“These engine-room fellows are always up to something .”
depressing. He said that the
council concluded that within
the limitations imposed by such
factors as shortage of man-
power and materials, every en-
deavor was being made to reach
the planned state of progress,
and the only subjects which he
mentioned as having been dis-
cussed were co-operation for
defence with the British, the de-
velopment of machinery
which ought to have been in
existence at all stages —for
national planning for emergency
and the joint Anglo-Australian
long-range weapons project.
Mr. Dedman followed with
some plain and fancy deception:
The overall financial position of the
programme provides a good indica-
tion of what has been accomplished
so far.
The figures for authorisation of
expenditure from the inception of the
programme on July 1, 1947, to April
30, 1949, are: Authorisations placed,
£87,576,000, against the pro rata
planned figure of £93,000,000, which
represents 94 per cent, achievement.
Expenditure totalled £63,370,000,
against the pro rata planned figure
of £71,711,000, which represents 88
per cent, achievement.
The Government is making finan-
cial provision in the defence pro-
gramme for all that is specifically
possible for the services to accomplish
under present economic conditions.
Since defence is a national
affair, the Opposition in the
Federal Parliament might well
press for representation upon
the Defence Council or the Pro-
gress Review Committee, This
would effectively prevent Mr.
Dedman from indulging in
essays in flagrant deception.
If the pro rata financial ex-
penditure i§ as above, the figures
must have been reached by in-
flated and useless squandering
on civilian dromes, huge adver-
tising programmes, idle labor
and wasteful purchasing. There
is nothing in the hard facts of
accomplishments to justify the
figures. Before we can know
exactly what has been accom-
plished he must tell us:
(1) How many men in the
military forces were called for
by the programme to be en-
listed to date, and how many
actually have been enlisted.
(2) To what stage of progres-
sive training was it expected
that the enlistment quotas
budgeted for would have been
brought to by the present date.
What exactly is the training
status of the forces enlisted
under the scheme.
(3) What 'armament was
budgeted for to the present date,
and what is the effective actual
percentage of equipment pro-
vided.
(4) What work on defence
facilities, drill-grounds, etc., was
budgeted for and what has
actually been done.
(5) What has been spent on
advertising for recruits in the
various services, and why there
is such an appalling shortage of
naval officers and Duntroon
students that the Government
finds it necessary to use display
newspaper advertising to re-
cruit their normally very limited
numbers.
(6) What naval ships are on
the stocks, when each was laid
down, what programme was set
originally for finishing them,
how much they are behind
schedule, how much they are
likely to cost and have cost to
date above schedule, what in-
dustrial disputes and delays
have taken place in connection
with them. What other ships
were in contemplation which
have not gone on the stocks.
(7) What is the manning posi-
tion of the Navy, both as re-
gards officers and men, and
how far is it behind the antici-
pations of 1947.
(8) What reconditioning of
ships has been done since 1947
and what has been done to meet
th)e modernisation of medium
ship batteries six-inch and
eight-inch—which are being
turned over to cartridge-firing
elsewhere.
(9) How many aircraft have
been built since 1947 in Aus-
tralia, or acquired elsewhere, by
comparison with the estimates
of 1947.
(10) The total analysed craft
strength of the R.A.A.F, com-
pared with budget anticipations
of 1947.
(11) The manpower position
of the R.A.A.F. by comparison
with anticipations.
(12) The training position of
the R.A.A.F. by comparison
with anticipations, together with
related general information
about buildings and other neces-
sities.
(13) The provision of armored
forces and their equipment.
(14) The strength of the
civilian staffs of the defence de-
partments and of administrative
staffs in uniform doing work
which ordinarily would be done
by civilians by comparison
with the budgeted estimate.
When < Mr. Dedman tells us
these things—he could not tell
them all publicly, but he could
tell a limited committee on which
the Opposition could be repre-
sented —we will know what his
assurances are worth.
On a fair sampling it is not
much —about as much as the
much - advertised rocket - range
will be in any crisis which takes
place within the next five years.
Another "Surrender."
“Ek Dum”: The U.S.S.R.
made one of its sudden “surren-
ders” at the Four-Power Con-
ference in Paris. These are
nearly always as disconcerting
as Russian resistances. They
have the same effect and are
apparently applied for the same
purpose as the instantaneous
opening of an apparently locked
door against which somebody
is leaning heavily.
The leaner is caught off-
balance and off his guard when
the door-opener clips him
smartly under the ear.
There have been a good many
of these surrenders in the past
three years—so many that even
a trusting capitalist Press, which
used to hail them as the first
bird-twitter of the millennial
dawn, has now grown cynical.
Mr. Vishinsky’s “surrender”
came after 17 days of rudeness,
obstinacy, innuendo and open
charges against the West and its
Governments. Mr. Acheson, of
the United States, proposed that
the Ministers should call for a
joint report from their represen-
tatives in Berlin upon measures
for the final lifting of the
blockade. Mr. Vishinsky at first
tried to extract a condition pre-
cedent —the invariable Russian
procedure in such cases —the
acceptance of Russian-zone cur-
rency as the official currency in
Berlin. The other Foreign
Ministers refused pending a
settlement of blockade ques-
tions. Then Stalin’s minion
gave in.
The Western commandants
met immediately and arranged
to see Major-General Kotikov
at the week-end.
The seriousness of the situa-
tion between East and West is
fully illuminated by what would
be in any discussions between
Western Powers an insignificant
incident scarcely worthy of
more than a couple of lines in
the Press. But where the
U.S.S.R. is involved news has
a different value; “World Sen-
sation —Vishinsky Agrees , to
Something! ”
But the something does not
mean anything save as a local
manoeuvre, for in China Mr.
Vishinsky’s Communists are
forcing the British to spend
millions to defend Hong Kong,
in Pakistan they are trying to
win Pakistanian friendship alle-
giance away from the British
Commonwealth, in Korea and
Malaya they are fighting, in
Macedonia they and their satel-
lites are keeping the Greek re-
bellion going, and everywhere
along the mid-line of Central
Europe they are fortifying bor-
ders and shutting out foreigners.
Turkey lives in a state of
chronic fear and is afraid to
allow British or Americans
within miles of their Russian
borders for fear of creating an
incident.
Also, Western Germany is
honeycombed with Communist
agents, particularly in the Ruhr,
where most-mysteriously-timed
strikes have suddenly arisen
against the removal of war-time
synthetic-oil plants, which have
been out of action since 1945,
by way of payment for repara-
tions.
Following his surrender, Mr.
Vishinsky began to show anxiety
about an early peace for Ger-
many. His purposes in that
matter are the same as ever.
The Chinese Communists are
moving steadily southward, and
at the week-end were on the
borders of Kwang-tung province,
after taking Kanehow, a little
over 200 miles from Canton.
Mr. Alexander has gone back
to England from Hong Kong
cheerful, but “resolutely deter-
mined to guard this territory for
which we are responsible,” He
left Hong Kong “less anxious”
and “probably more cheerful”
than before he came about the
position in South-east Asia,
which is indicative oi the sunny
and hopeful nature of Socialist
Ministers, What he probably
means is that there is not much
likelihood that the Chinese have
the force to attack Hong Kong
militarily, and that he is relieved
of the terrible responsibility
which would have fallen on him,
if they had happened to be able
to assault the colony effectively,
of explaining why no prior
arrangements had been made to
defend it with the certainty that
its safety could be assured.
“Labor” Ministers are normally
not endowed with the warrior
mind —even though Frankie
Forde trumpeted at the end
of 1941, when he had no
armed troops in sight, that all
the Japs who liked could come
because he intended to turn
Sydney into “another Lenin-
grad.” The Chinese National
Government, or one of them, is
moving to Chungking again,
its valuables having in the
main been transferred, with
many of its friends, to Formosa.
It is reported that if hostilities
develop the Commonwealth will
be asked to send H.M.A.S. Syd-
ney and supply food and
munitions.
* * * *
“E.D.”: With that pompous
urge to self-advertisement which
marks the whole of the demo-
crats of Canberra’s Ministry,
Senator Armstrong has an-
nounced, for all who want to
know, that “the launching zone
platform of the Woomera rocket-
range will be completed in a few
days’ time,” and that “trial
launchings will follow soon after-
wards.” The Senator feels that
the work on the range is “de-
veloping very satisfactorily.” No
doubt somebody high in
“Labor” politics will lay a foun-
dation-stone in the first missile.


NEW AUSTRALIAN N.L. BULLDOG
lOINS WITH PREWAR FAMOUS LANI
K.L. BULLDOG
40 H.P. MODEL
NfIWV UNRIVALLED ECONOMY of
IlUff i CRUDE OIL OPERATION FOR
SMALL AND LARGE ACREAGE HOLDINGS.
New Australian 40 h.p. K.L. Bulldog, together with 25 and 35 h.p.
“ L ” and “ N ” Model Lanz—a range of three real economy
Tractors from which to choose the ideal unit for any size farm.
Operating on crude oil, the cheapest of fuels, these new Bulldog
Tractors can save you £l5O per year on the running costs of any
other type of tractor —or a total of up to £l5OO in 10 years. Bulldog
is built to suit the dusty conditions and irregular overloads under
which tractor engines must operate. With only 8 main moving
parts in its slow speed, single cylinder, valveless engine, there’s
no intricate mechanism —no careful checking or adjustment neces-
sary. Bulldog’s sheer simplicity of engine construction reduces
wear, maintenance, and depreciation to the bare minimum. Compare
it with the complicated types of kerosene and diesel tractor engines
with their multiplicity of sensitive parts all working at high speeds,
high pressures, and close tolerances. Bulldog’s maintenance cost is
actually less than one-third that of any other type of tractor, saving
you at least £2O per year. And the low rate of depreciation saving a
further £5O per year on other tractors’ losses is evidenced by its
hig*h resale value. Just check the following comparison of costs
and see how much Bulldogs can sa vtjou from now on :
COMPARISON OF YEARLY TRACTOR OPERATION COSTS
(500 ACRES—7 TO 8 OPERATIONS)
From the foregoing it is easy to see how the operating savings
you can make over a period of 10 years can more than refund
your initial capital investment in a new K.L. or LANZ Bull-
dog Tractor.
SIMPLEST, STRONGEST, MOST ECONOMICAL,
TRACTORS EVER BUILT I
in unquestionably the greatest
TRACTOR MERGER
ever made in this country!
The recent appointment of the distributors for the New
Australian K.L. Bulldog Tractor to represent also Lanz of
Mannheim, Germany, permits the announcement of this
wonderful Tractor new to Australian farmers. Lanz Crude
Oil Tractors are coming back in two different models that
will establish even bigger records of economy and efficiency
than ever before. For Bulldogs have always set the standard
of Tractor economy in Australia. Their amazing record of
low running costs, unfailing efficiency and freedom from
trouble is a by-word among farmers throughout the Com-
monwealth. And that’s what will make Bulldogs the most
sought-after Tractors built today. Because Bulldogs are best
value in Tractors, every way you look at them.
LANZ CRUDE OIL
25&35H.P. MODELS
II
m
mm
At the right you see the heart of a
tough, rugged Bulldog Tractor.
Notice the simple and clear cut
design of its single cylinder, valve-
less, two-cycle crude oil engine.
Nothing complicated, no parts that
wear out quickly and need replace-
ment. Just big, robust, slow moving
parts that resist wear and operate
for years with the minimum cf
attention.
K.L. and Lanz Bulldogs will be available very soon. So place your order
NOW with your local Bulldog Agent and get a priority on delivery. Or
write for full information and literature to your State Representative.
K.L. E @UNZ
Ct*cde ot£ T R ACTOR S
State Distributors;
N.S.W., Dangar, Gedye & Malloch Ltd., 10-14 Young St.,
K.L. Tractor B Sales Pty. Ltd., 304 Spencer St., I Melbourne. S OUJ H AUS-
TRALIA, Elder, Smith & Co. Limited 27-31 Currie St., Adelaide. WEST
AUSTRALIA, Kelly & Lewis (W.A.) Pty. Ltd., 349 St., Perth.
TASMANIA, K. L. Distributors Pty. Ltd.. 233 Elizabeth St., Hobart.
QUEENSLAND, K.L. Tractor Sales Pty. Ltd., 121 Brunswick St., Valley,
Brisbane.


Get Winter Warmth with . . .
MORRIS “CENTRAL” RADIATORS
Economical, Mobile, Central Heating
The Morris All-British “Central” Radiators give the comfort of
“Central Heating” without heavy installation costs. They’re mobile,
too. Being water filled, they do not draw any moisture from the
air. For the town and city, there Is the electric Morris “Radfire,”
which can be used as a radiator or direct ray fire or both. This
radiator is illustrated at right. Shown at left is the oil radiator,
ideal for heating houses in the country where no electricity or gas
is laid on, and is operated by an “ODOURLESS” precision blue
flame kerosene burner.
SSa*
m
All Morris “Central” Radi-
ators are mounted on ball-
bearing castors and can be
wheeled from room to room
with ease and perfect safety.
Manufacturers and Patentees—Morris Heating Appliances Ltd.,
5 Netherton Grove, London, S.W. 10.
Trade inquiries invited. Stocks available in Sydney or Melbourne.
Sole Agent: —
L. D. BESTON
387 KENT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone: M 3536. Cables: “Boston,” Sydney.
Melbourne Office: 3rd Floor, 34 Queen Street. ’Phone; MB 4351.
Victorian Stockists:
William L. Buckland Pty., Ltd.,
139-141 Franklin Street,
MELBOURNE. Tel. FJ 6644.
Tasmanian Stochists:
Williftm L. Buckland Pty., Ltd.,
38 Charles Street, LAUNCESTON, and
57 Liverpool Street, HOBART.
f
MEMORISE
WITH EASE
Pass Examinations.
Speak Without Notes.
Grip Lodge Ritual.
Send stamp for booklet.
Rev. W. Rowlands
12 Younger Grove,
Caulfield, S.E. 8, Vic.
GOOD OLD
JOHNNIE
WAbKER
real good Scotch
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD.. SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK.
SCOTLAND; LONDON AND SYDNEY.
SUNDRY SHOWS
STAGE AND CONCERT
Last week, at Melbourne
Town Hall, Marjorie Lawrence
continued her sensational appear-
ances clad in her green frock,
yellow wrap and brilliant trim-
mings, covered with more deco-
rations than General Mac-
Arthur, and suffused with the
usual blinding light which made
it almost impossible to look at
the lady and produced a chro-
matic cloud that made the sing-
ing which came out of it sound
like the voice of some goddess in
a voluptuous Oriental heaven.
The ease with which the voice
passed from the plaintive loveli-
ness of Tschaikowsky’s “Fare-
well Ye Forests” to the defiant
sentiments of Henley’s “Invic-
tus” and then slipped into
“Danny Boy” and “Waltzing
Matilda” and the sheer virtuo-
sity of Joaquin Nin’s “Grana-
dina,” which was vocalised
Spanish dancing, was amazing,
* * * *
Sandwiched between a vigor-
ous performance of Berlioz’s
“Carnaval Remain” and the
best reading of Dvorak’s Fifth
Symphony (“New World”) that
Sydney has heard for years,
Rafael Kubelik gave Honeg-
ger’s Symphony No. 2 for
Strings. As Honegger is one
with Erik Satie and Milhaud—
both exponents of French
modern “music” —the worst was
to be feared, and the resulting
harmonic mess abundantly
realised the fears. Like Pope’s
alexandrine, the horror “dragged
its slow length along,” averag-
ing two yawns to the bar.
Rudolf Schock, the German
lyric tenor, made an impressive
debut with the orchestra, and
it was here that Kubelik gave
some of our local conductors a
lesson in how not to drown a
singer. Schock, young and
burly, bounds on to the plat-
form full of rude health, and
this same health is reflected in
the virility of his voice, which is
easily produced, of a respect-
able range and of splendid
timbre. He sings Mozart as to
the manner born, his “Con-
stanze, Constanze” from “II
Seraglio” being invested with the
right degree of yearning and
passion, nicely blended. Only
on the high note of Gounod’s
“Salut Demeure” did the
standard fall slightly, as if the
singer didn’t trust himself to
hang on to it. Fine declama-
tion and beautiful phrasing
marked his singing of “Lohen-
grin’s Narration.”
* * * *
Judging by its opening, State-
subsidised ballet at Melbourne
Princess threatens to be as suc-
cessful as grand opera. After
eight weeks’ training the com-
pany, collected from Sydney
and Melbourne and including
four dancers ex-Ballet Rambert,
threw itself on “Aurora’s Wed-
ding,” to Tschaikowsky’s music,
with disciplined vigor. Joyce
Graeme, who directed the show
and played major roles in three
ballets, has a brittle charm
which she displayed as Princess
Aurora; and Rex Reid, Max
Colies, Alison Lee, Lesley Sex-
ton and the others showed com-
petence.
“Romantic Suite,” choreo-
graphy by Joyce Graeme, music
by John Field, was a modern
sophisticated version of the
style and technique of the 19th-
century dance, and if the scenery
of Kenneth Rowell had had the
elegance of the dancers it would
have been the highlight of the
evening. The trivial content of
“Les Amours de Pierette,” by
Jean Alexander, didn’t justify
its length, but the co. made
amends with a display of
ferocity in the Polovtsian Dances
from “Prince Igor” which
brought the house down,
* * * *
The Firm should have no
complaints about its two cur-
rent investments in Sydney—
“ Annie Get Your Gun” at the
Royal and the Kiwis at the Em-
pire. The Kiwis’ current pro-
gramme, “Alamein,” has been
running for over four months,
while “Annie” is nearing the
end of its tenth month. June
Clyde, who made a successful
bow to Sydney audiences in the
amusing “Born Yesterday,” is
currently presenting an excel-
lent Annie while Evie Hayes
takes a spell for a few weeks.
* * * *
Miss Elsie Beyer, who
managed the Old Vic. Co.’s
tour of Australia and who,
since then, has been back to
consider the possibilities of
legit, in these parts, has teamed
up with Whitehall Productions
of Sydney Minerva. There is
tqlk of bringing out some of
the best English actors and pro-
ducers Gielgud, Googie
Withers and Robertson Hare
have been mentioned.
* * * *
If ever a show deserved a
long run it is Coward’s “Pre-
sent Laughter” at Sydney
Palace. There are several rea-
sons: it is a good play, pro-
duced and acted with painstak-
ing thoroughness, and it marks
the return of the Palace to legit.,
which is an event of the utmost
importance. Apart from the
players mentioned here last
week for their commendable
performances there are Wini-
fred Hindle and Brian James as
the housekeeper and valet of the
ageing matinee idol whose
stormy love-life makes up most
of the comedy; Philip Edgley
as his would-be protege;
Ronald Fortt and Bruce Beeby
as his producer and manager;
and Lorna Lawrence as Lady
Saltburn. All of them make
able contributions to the piece.
*** * *
What a pity the Palace has
been wasted on films for so long!
It is a small, warmly intimate
theatre with an atmosphere of
its own that must assist players
tremendously in putting them-
selves across to an audience. Its
decorations, the gilding, the
luxurious red-and-gold curtain
and the lighting all contribute to
make it a little gem of a theatre.
Even the miniature grey-and-
white kitten which wanders
about the stage and the audi-
ence seems to have been de-
signed for the place.
* * * *
May Hollinworth’s Metropoli-
tan Theatre and Doris Fitton’s
Independent are both chang-
ing their programmes shortly.
After three more performances
of “Father Malachy’s Miracle”
the Independent will switch to
“The Male Animal” on June
23. Early in July Douglas
Stewart’s “Shipwreck” will
have its world premiere at the
Metropolitan, “Shipwreck,” the
author’s latest verse-play, is
based on the story of the wreck
of the Batavia on Houtman’s
Abrolhos, one of the least pub-
licised but most dramatic inci-
dents in Australian history.
*** * ,
With so many good plays be-
ing put on —and being put on
well —by repertory groups and
semi-professionals in and around
Sydney, it’s a pity that, when a
production merits it, they can’t
be given the opportunity to show
their paces in one of the city
theatres. With the exception of
the Minerva, alb the city houses
are currently inhabited by im-
ported plays and a fair sprinkling
of imported players, and the trend
seems to be to go on importing
more and more. Over the last
few years both Doris Fitton and
May Hollinworth have produced
shows which would have been
worth betting on.
Artbursts.
Sixty-six little pictures by
Sidney Nolan purporting to
illustrate the Eureka Stockade
episode are showing at Sydney
Macquarie Galleries. Mr.
Nolan’s bright colors and chirpy
humor, which have hitherto en-
livened his experiments, are ab-
sent. The pictures consist mostly
of wobbly line-drawings of
landscapes decorated with
troopers and miners. The style,
deliberately, imitates that of an
artless child. It is possible,
of course, starting from the
premises that the more any-
thing looks like nothing the
more it looks like something
sublime, and that the worse a
man draws the better he draws,
to build up an impressive tower
of argument in favor of these
paintings,; but one has a lurk-
ing suspicion that if by any
mischance Tom Roberts’s
“Bailed Up” strayed’into the ex-
hibition the sixty-six little pic-
tures would drop to the floor
and silently steal away.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Words of recitation “How Bill
Adams Won the Battle of Waterloo.”
—4646.
To buy copies of The Egg and I
by Betty McDonald, Central Aus-
tralia by Madigan, and Reptiles of
the Pacific World by Loveridge.—464s.
Lady, Sydney, with limited amount
of cash, wishing to see Australia,
wants to get in touch with another
with same idea. —4648.
Director and manager of a leading
steel-foundry in England wishes to
contact an interested concern with a
view taking similar appointment in
Australasia. —4647.
Copy of verse by H. E. Horne
concerning soldier-settlers after World
War I, containing- the lines;
I’d rather be a fettler on the Leadville-
Coolah line
Than a settler on the Pine Ridge blocks.
—4649.
Information Sought.
In what space can a pair of pea-
cocks be satisfactorily maintained ?
Also, particulars regarding feeding
and conditions favorable to their
well-being? Are they mischievous in
a vegetable garden ?
These birds can be housed quite
well in an enclosure approximately
14ft. by 14ft., but if it is possible to
give them more space, so much the
better. Roosts should be provided
and some shelter against the hot sun
of summer and the prevailing winds
if cold during the winter months.
The birds do well on the usual foods
provided for fowls, i.e., seed and
mash, but require, in addition, greens.
A little meat-meal, once weekly,
should be added to the mash. It is
not advisable to have them in a
vegetable garden, as they will eat
most green plants and will scratch in
search of insects.
* * * *
Origin and meaning of “Toe H.” ?
It is from the initials of Talbot
House, “T” being called “Toe” in
signalling, and is an interdenomina-
tional Christian organisation of men
and women for social service and
fellowship. It came into being in
1915 at Talbot House (named after
Gilbert Talbot, a British lieutenant,
spn of the Bishop of Winchester, who
was killed in France), a rest and
recreation centre for soldiers during
World War I.
* * * *
A youth is apprenticed to a baker
in a N.S.W. country town. His
parents are moving to another town,
where a similar apprenticeship is ob-
tainable. Can the youth’s indentures
be transferred to a new employer?
An indenture of apprenticeship
may be transferred from one em-
ployer to another by mutual arrange-
ment between all parties to the con-
tract. The proposed new employer
should submit an application in writ-
ing to the Bakers (Country) Appren-
ticeship Council, Dept, of Labor and
Industry, 53 Martin-place, Sydney,
for permission to employ the appren-
tice by assignment, and should also
enclose with his application the
written consent of the present em-
ployer to the proposed transfer. If
the present employer is not prepared
to agree to the transfer, the appren-
tice or his parent may apply to
the abovementioned Apprenticeship
Council for permission to effect the
transfer, and would be required to
furnish full details of reasons for
desiring the transfer.
Brief Answers.
G.L.: Write Permanent Secretary,
Ministry of Home Affairs, Belfast,
Northern Ireland... .R.A.S.: Politi-
cal divisions at the opening of the
79th U.S. Congress were: —Senate:
38 Republicans, 57 Democrats and
one Independent; House of Reps.:
190 Republicans, 243 Democrats and
two Independents. At the opening
of the 80th Congress figures were
Senate: 51 Republicans, 45 Demo-
crats ; House of Reps.: 246 Repub-
licans, 188 Democrats and one Inde-
pendent... .J.M.: Jess Willard won
world heavyweight championship
from Jack Johnson at Havana, Cuba,
on April 5, 1915. Willard k.o.’d
Johnson in round 26 H.D.; (1)
Repairs to Japanese cameras are not
made by photographic stores, mainly
because of the lack of necessary re-
placements, but it is probable that
this work would be done by a camera-
repair specialist who would be pre-
pared to make such parts if required.
Lowry and Hennessy, 66 Clarence-
street, Sydney, will give an opinion
as to whether the camera could be
repaired or not. (2) Copy of the
“Australasian Photo Review” for
September, 1947, which includes full
description of the coated-lens process,
has been posted... .E.N.M.: Write
Taxpayers’ Association of N.S.W.,
11c Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the
MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS, will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be
addressed to the Editor,
C.G.: “And Robin” has too
much coincidence... .C.E.: Broke
our heart.. . .J.M.: “Daddy Bright’s
Bargain” not ours E. 0.: “Scrub-
bers and Duffers” reads like a chair-
man’s report D.D.S.: Sorry to
return your “Inspired Poem,” but we
are unable to disentangle you from
the lines where you are “Ensnared
by the awful maw of the tiger’s
claw”... .Wanky; No thanky....
V.F.: Too many words in your tidal
pool M.C.: Since you’ve been
reading us since 1913 you might as
well keep on. You’ll see the joke yet.
.... Bellerive: An exciting scene:
J.J.L.: Suitable only for children
in that style M.S.K.: “And
through the darkness—who knows
where?—turns the red bus.” But
surely the driver has some idea where
he’s going? Garth: Nearly. The
verse is unenterprising B.O.:
“Fiery Ice” is hardly more than
a melting moment... .NJF.: Satire
needs more bite than that L.J.1.:
Like all the other laments for the
old days M.F. (Scotland): Off our
beat.
CHASE BETWEEN A POEPOISE AND A SHARK.
Through the briny folds
To avoid a clash
With a daring porpoise
A shark did dash.
Eager for combat.
Its foe did pursue
The horrid reptile
Of the ocean blue.
Outward it swam
At a rapid pace,
With its fearless foe
Close in full chase.


a **sr *
*r
7:he
This responsibility
is yours
Your beneficiaries have every right to expect that your
estate will be handled with the utmost care. If your
judgment is faulty, imprudent administration can endanger
assets built up by your energy and foresight. However, it
is a simple matter to provide competent control: the
appointment of Burns Philp Trust Company as executor
or trustee ensures that your beneficiaries will be protected
at every turn.
A copy of "Hands That Never Leave the Wheel" will be
forwarded on request. Full details of the Company s many
services are given in this interesting booklet.
DIRECTORS: „ . „ . u .
James Burns Joseph Mitchell P. T. W. Black Er.c Pr.estley Lee
MANAGER- L. S. Parker SECRETARY: E. R. Overton. A.F.I.A.
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR • TRUSTEE • AGENT
Constituted by Special Act of the N.S.W. Parliament.
Head Office; 7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Te| .. BU 5901 Box 543. G.P.0., Sydney
TILLEY. LAMPS
WATCH FOR—
“HAPPY’’ MANTLES
THIS ENTIRELY NEW AND PATENTED
FEATURE OF GENUINE “TILLEY” MANTLES
WILL SURPRISE AND DELIGHT YOU.
NO MORE FIDDLING
WHEN FITTING!!
SUPPLIES ARE NOW ON THE WAY TO
AUSTRALIA FROM OUR FACTORY.
ASK YOUR LOCAL DEALER OR, IF IN ANY
DIFFICULTY, WRITE TO OUR AUSTRALIAN
REPRESENTATIVES
T. H. BENTLEY, Pty. Ltd.
123-125, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l
m
REGD.
THE TILLEY LAMP
. c ; , 'V' -'UT !V ,vi£••
COMPANY LTD. OF ENGLAND
■■■■»; It ■ ■
SPORTING NOTIONS
With one meeting postponed from
the previous Saturday, there was
racing at Randwick on Wednesday,
Saturday and Monday—the latter
two fixtures comprising the AJ.C.’s
Winter Meeting. A track which was
an absolute bog on the Wednesday,
very heavy on Saturday and still
pretty soft on Monday added to the
normal uncertainties of winter form.
Surprisingly, in the circumstances,
punters had a tip-top day on Wednes-
day, with four favorites and two
equal-favorites successful from eight
races; for several years past this
particular fixture has been a bad
one for backers. Leading riders
Thompson and Sellwood struck a
purple patch, Sellwood landing a
treble and Thompson a double. Sell-
wood took the first Two-year-old
Encourage on Delta, the George’s
River Handicap (Bf.) on Indian Chief,
and the Homestead Handicap (lOf.)
on Air Flare—all three hot favorites.
Thompson won the Welter on Golden
Plumes, who was an odds-on proposi-
tion, but his other winning mount,
old Brazier, was, at 15 to 1, little
fancied for the Flying, which he won
by three lengths. Other Wednesday
winners were Prohibition (Three-year-
old Encourage), Beau Caste (second
Two-year-old), and the 100-tq-l
chance Comedy Chief in the Novice
( 12f •); .
In Wednesday’s Three-year-old En-
courage, won by Prohibition, Sir
Falcon had started an odds-on
favorite. He was beaten by a head —
just little enough to encourage the
foolhardy to come in again on Satur-
day, which they did, sending the colt
out at 7 to 4 on for the 10-furlongs
Trial Stakes. This time he was beaten
rather more decisively into third
place by Double Strength (J. Eaves)
and Miss Corrogin. Nevertheless,
Sir Falcon, a solid-looking son of
The Buzzard, is too consistent a per-
former to leave his supporters long
lamenting. The odds-on specialists
had better luck with the mile St.
Aubins Handicap (for three-year-old
fillies), which Sheba (G. Moore) won
as she liked.
Main event on Saturday was the
June Stakes (6f.), with £2OOO added —
rather more than the size and quality
of the field justified. Showing the
family’s partiality for sticky going,
sons of Nizami fought out the finish,
with the three-year-old Grey Boots
(R. Selkrig) winning by a head from
Deep Sea; Brazier plodded into third
place, displaying much less dash than
he had mustered -on the Wednesday.
For the June Stakes Thompson dis-
carded Brazier to ride Trover, who
had won the race last year and was
strongly favored to do so again.
Trover, however, skidded as he
jumped at the start, and left Thomp-
son sitting in the mud.
Apprentice riders landed six of the
seven winners on Saturday, Moore’s
success on Sheba being the lone ex-
ception. J. Lordan opened proceed-
ings, and gave bookies a fair start
for the day by taking the June Nur-
sery (6f.) on the Brueghel filly
Pyramid (66 to 1), who finished im-
pressively to down So Happy (16
to 1) and Dashing Style (10 to 1);
Lordan, however, received a month’s
suspension for his part in a pretty
willing scrimmage near the half-mile.
Taking a modest nibble at the turf
game again, but doing his own train-
ing now, Alan Cooper had Purple
Prince a runner in the June Juvenile
(7f.) for colts and geldings, and the
Prince gave an impressively game
performance before being beaten a
half-length by the favorite, Freyberg
(W. Hughes). Purple Prince is a son
of Talking, for whom Cooper once
Paid the then sensational price of
19,000 guineas. Other winners on
Satdrday were Deed (D. Weir), just
pipping Alkestu in the Ellesmere
Handicap (10L), and the very con-
sistent Khedive (P. Webb) scoring y
an even smaller margin in the mue
Exeter Handicap.
**, * *
When racing commenced at
Flemington on Saturday the tiacK
was soft; any worsening of this state
as the afternoon wore on might have
been attributable to the copious tears
shed by the bookmaking fraternity
as well-backed horses won race alter
race. Fortunately, for the bookies,
there were only six races on the card.
Equally favored for the Hopetoun
Steeple, Briar and Bronze Laddie
finished with nearly the length of the
field between them. When Dunky, •
who looked a chance and would have
pleased the books immensely, fell at
the last jump, Briar (S. Gardiner)
won by 15 lengths from Edison and
Mt. Howitt. Bronze Laddie, after
being never in the hunt, finished
ahead of only one runner; the
stewards opened and adjourned an
inquiry. By coincidence, Bronze
Laddie caused a mild sensation of
somewhat different nature in the same
race last year, when he won at
lengthy odds subsequent to a poor
performance at Moonee Valley.
Carrying 71b. more.than his Grand
National Hurdle weight, the very
hefty Waikare gelding Paunus (A.
Moon) gave a game performance to
win the York Hurdle. In the run
home from the last jump Faun us
fairly wore down Quetzal, to whom
he was conceding more than a stone.
Trainer F. W. Hoysted and jockey
W. Williamson, as well as backers of
favorites, scored a nice double when
Ailsa won the Rothsay Handicap for
two-year-olds and Decorate the 7-
furlongs Lancaster Handicap. An
example of the old turf maxim “the
bigger the field the greater the cer-
tainty,” Ailsa had 25 opponents in
the Rothsay, and won by three
lengths from Simon Pure, with Prince
Noell a very distant third. Ailsa is
a daughter of Helios, who seems cer-
tain this season to eclipse the Aus-
tralian record attributed to Valais
for stake-earnings of the progeny of
one sire. The former Sydney galloper
Decorate had a rather narrower vic-
tory than his stablemate, defeating
Commend by a half-head. In other
races at Flemington, Manakau (J.
Gilmore) made a procession of the
Sandringham Handicap (12f.) and
Derrymore, another of Helios’s get,
took the mile Buckingham Handicap.
* * * *
Commencing his preparation for
the Doomben Ten Thousand, San
Domenico carried 9.9 to a very easy
win in the June Handicap (6f.) at
Eagle Farm on Saturday. A good
trial, but the Hua gelding will need
to prove himself an amazing sprinter
to win the Ten Thousand, most
harshly handicapped as he is in com-
parison to other very good gallopers.
San Domenico has been given 9.7;
Doncaster-winner Bernbrook has 8.7,
Epsom-winner De La Salle 8.10, and
the brilliant Phoibos 8.13.
* * * *
While lining up for the start of
the Puckle Handicap at Moonee
Valley a few weeks back the 100-to-l
chance Zenith tossed and injured his
rider. No attempt was made to
replace the jockey, and the field was
sent on its way with backers of
Zenith doing their cash in cold
blood. In reporting the incident, not
the first of its kind, this page (B.
25/5/’49) strongly suggested that the
time was long overdue for an altera-
tion to the extremely unfair rule
which applies in such cases —that a
horse, once it comes under the
starter’s orders, is considered a starter,
whatever may happen thereafter. At
its monthly meeting (27/5/’49) the
V.R.C. committee suitably amended
the rule, and the amendment will
come into force as soon as the
Government makes corresponding
amendment of the totalisator regula-
tions. Last week the AJ.C. followed
suit.
“Wall-street Journal” reports a
case of fine old British sporting
tradition coming off second best in
a clash with modern unsporting
bureaucracy—exercise v. excise, in
fact:
“A team of four men and four
women returning victorious from an
archery match at St. Emilion (France)
wine festival found themseyles with-
out honor in the eyes of tariff collec-
tors. Their prize, in accordance with
ancient custom, was a cask of claret.
The import duty came to over £25,
however, so they had to leave it
behind. Instead, they each took three
bottles as a token trophy. Customs
“Now try tossing each other out!”
men imposed a levy of ten shillings
a bottle. They turned a deaf ear
when the bowmen invoked a charter,
granted by William the Conqueror,
which permitted citizens of St.
Emilion tariff-free wine exports to
Britain.” .
As the shade of Robin Hood might
well have muttered, Ned Kelly was
a gentleman compared with such as
these.
Queerest sporting style present
writer has encountered was that of a
youngster sighted playing tennis on a
Sydney suburban court recently. His
idol and model obviously was the
freakish Bromwich, but our youth
out-Bromwiched Brom. by even serv-
ing with a double-handed grip on the
racquet. .
In a letter to London “Times,
Alec Waugh describes a ram avis
of the village green:
“The majority of modern batsmen
are to the spectator indistinguishable
from one another. Only the very
great develop a personal style. Even
in village cricket there is a lamentable
lack of eccentricity. Last Saturday,
however, my village-team encountered
a specimen unique in my experience
—a right-handed batsman who placed
his left hand on the handle below
the right. His footwork was ortho-
dox, his bat perpendicular, his chief
aggressive stroke —possibly because of
the enforced position of his left
elbow —was a left-shouldered slash
into the covers. He had adopted,
he told me, this peculiar method, not
because of an accident to a limb in
youth, but because ‘it came more
natural.’”
* * * *
The Australian Davis Cup team,
comprising Bromwich, Sedgman and
Sidwell, with Cliff Sproule as manager,
has reached England, where they,
together with members of the team
which toured S’Africa, will compete
at Wimbledon, Meanwhile, playing
of Davis Cup matches in the Euro-
pean zone is in full swing. It is really
a pity that Australia does not chal-
lenge in the European zone, where
players would meet such a variety of
competent opposition, to say nothing
of a profusion of paying spectators—
neither being much in evidence at the
early matches encountered in the
American zone.
Sc * * *
The third Rugby Union Test, Aus-
tralia v. Maoris, down for Sydney,
should pack the ground. In Brisbane
on Saturday a crowd of 25,000 saw
the second Test end in a draw, 8-8,
after a match exciting right to the
final bell. Indeed, Australia had the
chance to win after the bell, but full-
back Brian Piper missed with the
vital penalty kick. All-round, the
Australians this' time played rather
the better game.
* * » ♦
Although disappointing in the four
fights he has had in ‘England—partly
the victim of bad matchmaking—
Dave Sands is to be given a crqck
at the British Empire middleweight
title. At Olympia Stadium, London,
early in July, Sands is to meet the
winner of the bout between present
champion Dick Turpin and Albert
Finch to be held at Birmingham on
June 20.
* * * *
As aggressive as an avalanche,
Frenchman Emile Famechon (8.5 j)
tried hard to trim Taffy Hancock
(8.1) at Leichhardt, but Hancock’s
longer reach enabled him to outbox
Famechon for a points victory.
Famechon continually swung both
hands from anywhere to everywhere,
and occasionally nowhere. When a
few rights landed rabbit-killer style
at the back of Hancock’s neck the
crowd hooted the Frenchman; dis-
playing impartiality, they hooted m
like fashion when Famechon landed
a beauty flush on Hancock’s ear.
Famechon was cautioned three times
for using rabbit-killers, but Hancock s
wild evasive tactics frequently con-
tributed to these punches landing
where they did.


Famous British
ENGINES
are
NOW
AVAILABLE
at
REDUCED
For immediate delivery contact PRICES
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY. LTD.
PHONE: MA6311 7-11 MARKET ST., SYDNEY
The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
grinder discs— recommended for shearing-shed work.
■
n
,W‘
40z., Boz., 160 z., 1 gallon sizes . . . Hardware and genera! stores.
■
■
.
m
m
Mik quiet woiiojTiee-jeMitty s-Zoygity
with the New MOBILCO "M" TREE FELLER
These machines are in constant use in felling
and clearing in many different types of country.
Because the Mobilco is so light (it weighs only
200 lbs.) one man can push it from tree to
tree and operate it for hours on end without
undue fatigue.
The Mobilco is a rugged, shaft-driven machine
with a clutch which disengages the drive when
saw is not cutting. It has a handy indexing
device to position the saw for felling or cross
cutting. The British air-cooled engine operates
at 6 h.p. Prompt delivery. Cash or terms.
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL
EQUIPMENT PTY. ltd.
252 SWANSTON ST., MELBOURNE
4R
a
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Cattle-feeding Trials.
“He-Ne”: An investigation
into the economics of cattle-
feeding by concentrates is now
being conducted by R. J. Doo-
lan. Myall Downs, North Star
(N.S.W.), one of the State’s
largest wheatgrowers. The tests
are to ascertain if any profit
accrues from supplementary
feeding of cattle for market. At
present North Star pastures are
drying off, and Doolan wants to
find out whether to send the
cattle to market now or whether
it would be more profitable to
top them off by hand-feeding.
With pastures drying-off, the
best that could be hoped is that
the beasts will not lose condi-
tion ; they certainly will not
gain any. When the exact re-
turn is ascertained by tests the
information should prove of
immense value to those who
fatten cattle for market. Two
truck-loads of steers are being
used; one lot will be pasture-
fed only, the other lot will hav
a daily ration of ground grai
sorghum in addition to grazing
The cattle will be weighed regu-
larly and detailed costs and
weights of food will be kept.
Pasture-improvement.
“Rooster”; “Betcha” (B
I / 6/.’49) surprised me by stating
that reclaimed m swamp-lane
was hopeless for grazing. Even
with a clay surface, which, by
the way, could be improved by
the application of a little lime
reclaimed land should responc
readily to artificial manuring
Fact that the native grasses
thrived on superphosphate
proves it.
Regarding regulation of top-
dressing, here in Gippsland
where we can usually depend on
useful rainfalls during wintei
months (average annual fall is
30in.), we have found that, even
with 4cwt. of super, to the acre,
none of the clovers take charge.
I tried a small paddock of Pas-
palum dilatatum on its own last
year. Although it has received
only one top-dressing
per acre), rye-grass has appeared
as though spontaneously, with no
sign of clover. Doubtless the
clovers will appear in time, but
will be kept within bounds by
the strong winter growth typical
of rye-grass.
It is a well-known fact that
super, is relatively most efficient
during those periods when
growth on unmanured pastures
is handicapped by adverse con-
ditions, such as dryness in sum-
mer or extreme cold in winter.
It pays, then, to time your top-
dressings, i.e., to top-dress when
climatic conditions are against
natural growth, irrespective of
the nature of the soil.
Grazing is an important
adjunct to successful p.i. More-
over, regular spreading of
natural manures by grass-harrow-
ing helps to retain the humus
content of the soil. Pastures
can be left too long, and, should
rankness appear, much of their
natural food-value is wasted.
They can also be overgrazed, in
which case growth receives a
serious setback. Rotational
grazing is best. Should there be
a heavy clay deposit or a clay-
loam, a light top-dressing of
lime annually will not only
correct sourness, but will im-
prove the porousness.
Sydney Ram Sales.
“Dick Turpin”; Disappoint-
ing feature this year was the
poor demand for polled Merino
rams. Top price was 120 gns.,
but none of the other 17 sold
made better than 60 gns.
Breeders seem to be frightened
of the polls, but the day will
come when horns will be out-
moded and unpopular, as they
deserve to be.
Demand for top lines of
horned Merinos was very good,
but agents noted a considerable
falling-off (about 25 p.c.) in the
market for second-grade studs
and selected flocks. It beats me
why some studs persist in send-
ing poor rams to Sydney, which
are knocked down for a fiver if
they get a bid at all. It may
bring the name before the pub-
lic, but after trucking, pen,
commission and catalogue
charges have been paid and the
owner accepts five guineas for
a ram in full wool buyers are
entitled to draw their own con-
clusions of the value these
breeders place upon their stud
stock.
More Comparisons.
“Heresone”; There are many
other factors besides butterfat
test and conformation to be con-
sidered in comparing the various
dairy breeds (B. 27/4/’49). Of
the two most popular ones we
have found A.I.S. heifers are
highly-strung and harder to
handle than Jerseys. Also it is
very rare to find a Jersey that is
really tough to milk. Against
this surplus Jersey bull calves
are worth only the value of
their skins at birth, while A.I.S.
sell well as bobby calves. Jersey
culls do not bring top prices
either as fats or tinners, for their
soft yellow fat spoils the ap-
pearance of their meat.
Teats of some Jersey heifers
are so small as to constitute a
definite nuisance; on the other
hand, those of some older A.I.S.
cows are too large to milk
properly by machines. Butterfat
production per head seems to
average out much the same ; at
any rate, the results of our local
herd-testing unit of 22 herds
show no significant difference in
favor of either. The A.I.S. give
more milk, but we believe,
though we haven’t tested the
matter exhaustively, that a given
area will carry more Jerseys than
Illawarras. This is in line with
Dr. Petersen’s statement at Gat-
ton last year that for good cows
of all breeds the ratio of total
milk solids produced to nutri-
ment in the food consumed is
the same, but that, if butterfat
is the sole consideration, the
high-testing cow is the better
proposition, as a greater propor-
tion of her milk solids is in this
"You and yer stiff neck! I felled this one yesterday !”
form. This would apply main
to butter- and cheese-factor
suppliers. Jerseys, too, matur
earlier, and this is of econom
importance.
There are other factors to
considered, such as climate anc
location. In Palestine the Jewis
farmers favor the Holstein
Friesian type almost exclusively
One of them told me they hac
been found more resistant t
such diseases as rinderpest anc
foot-and-mouth disease tha
other breeds. If these curses eve
gain entry to Australia this claim
would have to be checked here
There is probably more wor
to be done in investigating sus
ceptibility to various diseases
For example, some men believ
that Guernseys are unduly sus
ceptible to t-b., which may ac
count for their decline in popu
larity here. There is no longe
a class for them at Toowoomb
show.
Wool Publicity.
Woolgrowers anc
wool-users are separated by larg
distances and are strangers to
each other. The problems o
each are not usually known to
the other, and even where some
thing is known it is often dis
torted. Advice given by buyer
to growers is often taken warily
and with reason, as the buyer is
interested only in particular
types of wool and his advice is
biased accordingly.
The International Wool Secre-
tariat could do much to improve
this. With its wide knowledge
and experience, it could interpret
the requirements of the manu-
facturer to the woolgrower and
also make clear to the manu-
facturer some of the problems
of the producer.
A Bradford man once said
that the only certain thing about
the yvool market was its un-
certainty. The synthetic-fibre
industry, about which the wool
industry is vitally concerned, has
no such market uncertainties.
Australia has an extensive pro-
gramme of publicity and re-
search in operation, but it is to
the I.W.S. we must look for a
wo rid-wide campaign to make,
and keep, people “wool-con-
scious.”
During his visit to New
Zealand, I. Clunies Ross,
one of the original members of
the secretariat, summed up the
position when he said: “Surely
there is only one course to be
taken by Australia and New
Zealand, and that is to match
the resources and efforts of the
synthetic-fibre producers with
the far greater resources of the
tens of thousands of wool-
growers and of the peoples and
Governments of wool-produc-
ing countries. There is no cor-
poration under heaven with a,
similar capital investment or a
comparable power.
“We must make up our
minds that our effort will
be on a scale never pre-
viously contemplated. We must
take every step necessary
to ensure, by research and ex-
tension, that loss from disease
and inefficient production is re-
duced to a minimum. We must
know what characters in wool
are important for varying manu-
facturing purposes, and how by
control of heredity and environ-
ment production policy may be
modified to meet changing
market requirements with speed
and efficiency. We in the pro-
ducing countries, who alone are
vitally concerned in wool’s
future, must accept responsi-
bility for textile research, to dis-
cover methods of improving the
processing and manufacture of
wool, and to find new modifica-
tions and uses for it, to demon-,
strate its virtues and versatility,
and its relationship to human
health.”
Useful Gadget.
“R. Ney”: A simple though
ingenious adaptation of the
electric fence has been brought
out by the Stonewall Company.
It enables the stockman to hold
stock in a paddock corner or
anywhere else so long as there are
supports for the electrified wire.
Called the “saddlebag edition,”
the gadget is carried in a com-
pact leather bag that can be tied
to the saddle or carried in a
utility, and all the stockman
needs is a coil of wire sufficiently
long to run round the stock and
an insulator for every 30ft. of
wire. The wire can be coiled,
after being run through the
necessary number of insulators,
and carried on the saddle.
Toehold stock, all that has to
be done is to tie the insulators
to trees, posts, stakes, etc., round
the selected area, run the stock
in, connect the wire to the
electrifier F terminal, connect
the E terminal to a metal tent-
or trap-peg stuck in the ground,
switch on and there you are.
The electrifier makes a steady
ticking noise while it’s on. For
a drover who has to hold sheep
in a lane overnight, or anywhere
else for that matter, this gadget
could be a blessing. Few ani-
mals will try to pass the electri-
fied wire.
New Friesian Blood.
“Agric”: “Only the infusion
of blood from exceptionally
good bulls would raise the
standard of Friesian cattle in the
Commonwealth and help to
rescue the breed from the slump of
the ’thirties,” said a leading N.Z.
breeder, E. M. North, of Otago,
on a visit to Brisbane. He came
to Australia primarily
to investigate the or-
ganisation behind the
Royal Shows of the
Commonwealth and
the layouts: of the
vari o u s grounds.
North is president of
the Otago Agricul-
tural and Pastoral
Society and councillor
of the N.Z. Friesian
Society. The latest
importations to his
Rosevale stud arrived from
Canada in June, 1948, and
another sire is now on the
water.
These bulls were purchased
primarily on butterfat perform-
ances of their progeny, as this
aspect has figured largely in the
stud’s activities ; two lactations
in the progeny of the imported
bull on the farm exceeded
10001 b. and two others were
over 11001 b. Two officers of
the N.S.W. Agriculture Depart-
ment (G. McGillivray and J.
W. Scott) were touring N.Z. for
Friesian stock for the Hawkes-
bury Agricultural College, said
North, and they would prob-
ably have a selection from
some of the latest imported
Canadian blood, but owing to
the great demand for bulls it
might be difficult to obtain any-
thing over one year old. ■
Breathers.
“Radian”: Breathers play an
important part in machine opera-
tion and should be clear of
obstruction. Although crankcase


BLEMISHES
Spots, roughness
and soreness mar
the beauty of
J^ r skin and com-
\J plexion I Use Cuticura
' Soap regularly Its
antiseptic and medicinal pro-
perties make and keep the
skin exquisitely smooth and
charming. One of the famous
trio—Cuticura Soap, Oint-
ment and Talcum Powder.
df
THE HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
The self-contained, self-emptying
Sanitary System.
Est. 1937.
Imitation is Sincerest Flattery
Beware of imitations similar in appear-
ance but lacking the internal patent
which makes the Hygeia Dissolvenator
so efficient.
Intending purchasers are invited to in-
vestigate the integrity of the Hygeia
Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd., the bona fldea of
the Hygeia Dissolvenator, as well as the
value and scope of the Hygeia Guarantee
compared with any other guarantee.
The Hygeia Guarantee includes 7 years
against corrosion.
Let the record of the 12,000 Dissol-
venators sold during the past 22 years
be your guide—do not be misled by
specious statements.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 20 years.
DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Diet. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Queensland: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Qld.),
609 Colonial Mutual Building, Queen
St., Brisbane.
Victoria: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Vic.)
Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
South Australia: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co.,
(S.A.), Edmcnt’s Building, Bundle
St., Adelaide.
Western Australia: R. P. Mclnemey «
Co., Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
Tasmania : Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd., Laun-
ceston and Hobart.
Darwin: C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales
and Services.
Rupture
Sufferers —try the new Eoussel Free.
Enables you to do hard work with
comfort and security. Definitely
holds, a condition absolutely necessary
for improvement.
Recommended by doctors and thou-
sands of satisfied users. Satisfaction
guaranteed, no matter where you live.
rn r>r Call or send stamp for
r Ktti FREE details, self-measure-
ment form and 1} days’ free trial
offer. No obligation.
The Roussel Appliance Co.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
Healthier Smoking!
The British BUTTNERPipe
with highly porous ceramic filter.
No breaking-in, bite, burn, wet
dottle or waste.
Price, 19/6, post free.
Illustrated leaflet on request.
Sole Australian Distributors:
Charles Whetton Pty. Ltd.,
156 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
TO;
m.
Connoisseurs’’pre-
fer brandy
after meals. The time
is coming when there’ll
be plenty of “St. Agnes’
for everyone.
®&AISOy
TILED IN SOUTH AUSTRALIA by Angoves Ltdv
m**L
\
• Behind every bale of your
wool lie years of courageous
planning and effort.
A.M.L.&F. realise this. That’s
why they give your hard-
earned wool the same
personal care and supervision
as you would yourself, and
that’s why you can be sure of
the best possible price when
you send your clip to
A.M.L.&F.
86 Yeors in the Service of the Mon on the Land
INC. IN ENGLAND, 1863 . azs.az
AUSTRALIAN, MERCANTILE. LAND & FINANCE COY. LTD.
4 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
AND AT MELBOURNE AND BRISBANE.
Country Branches—N.S.W.: Newcastle, Wagga, Henty, Hay, Cowra,
Scone, y Moree, Garah, Wee Waa, Brewarrina. QTd: Townsville,
Charleville St. George, Cunnamulla, Dirranbandi. Assoc. Agents.
McPhie & Co. Pty., Ltd., Toowoomba, Oakey, Dalby and Fittsworth.
I
AMLF
m
&
m
£K
sac
mm**
<*~Z^*
mi
*«s
s#S>
;-2X-
'
6
B 5
s
OWNERS AND OPERATORS ACCLAIM IRE AD GRADER
The capacity of a motor grader is measured by the
work it will do, and here’s why ALLIS-CHALMERS’
AD is so superior: its travel speeds are smoothly
synchronised with operator controls, giving all the
power required; its 21,500 lbs. effective weight is
balanced for maximum traction and control; its full
circle revolving blade swings ahead of platform with
plenty of end clearance; its electric brakes make
control positive; its exclusive tubular frame, strong,
shock-absorbing, protects control rods inside frame
... and its famous 2-cycle diesel power is dependable,
economical and instant starting.
ikm
Jm
W. Speed Patrol. Gasoline powered-
ideal for operation in narrow quarters—
the most versatile light grading machine
for efficient, high speed work.
HD-5, 37.5 drawbar h.p., 11,000
lbs, tractor smallest of AC
Crawler range, featuring 2-cyc/e
diesel power with electric push-
button starting.
HD-19. With fingertip hydraulic
steering and Torque Converter,
balancing speed with load, it has a
drawbar pull of more than 36,000
lbs. Faster, simpler servicing, too.
ALLIS
breathers are practically fool-
proof, those on some small
stationary engines can block up
and cause oil to be forced out
round the main bearings, valve
inspection cover and magneto
drive-shaft. Tractor transmission
and final drive assemblies often
have breathers to prevent oil
blowing past brake and axle
shaft oil seals—Fordson, for in-
stance, has several small holes
drilled in the transmission filler
cap.
Many a motorist has been
puzzled by a blocked breather
in his petrol-tank cap. Trouble
starts when air cannot enter the
tank to replace fuel that has been
consumed, with the result that a
partial or complete vacuum is
set up. This fault can baffle a
skilled tradesman, because
symptoms can point to so many
other complaints, such as faults
in fuel pump, carburettor, or
ignition system.
The radiator overflow is actu-
ally only a breather in disguise.
If the steam generated by boiling
water cannot escape things
happen quickly, usually to the
detriment of the radiator core.
Poultry Lice.
“Myrr”: For lice-eradication
on poultry Victorian Depart-
ment of Agriculture recom-
mends commercial sodium
fluoride. To treat a small flock
the department advocates the
“pinch” method. The bird is
held on a table and the sodium
fluoride applied next the skin,
a pinch under the head, one on
the neck, two on the back, one
on the breast, one below the
vent and on the tail, one on
each thigh and one on the
underside of each wing. For a
large flock the department
recommends dipping, using loz.
of the chemical to a gallon of
water. Hold the bird by the
wings and plunge it into the
solution, ruffling the feathers
with the hands. Duck the head
twice, only momentarily. Do
it on a calm, sunny day and
complete in sufficient time to
allow the birds to dry before
sunset.
A Sticky Position.
From the Australian Honey
Institute, Goodna (Q.):
With regard to “Don Drone” (B.
18/5/ ’49), it may be agreed that most
of his statements are true, but the
apathy or lack of organisation re-
garding the publicising of honey on
our home-market no longer, exists.
For the past two years much work
has been put into the inauguration
of the Australian Honey Institute.
As the name implies, it is a Com-
monwealth-wide movement by honey-
producers to unite and bring into
being an organisation from which
authentic publicity on honey will be
issued.
The Honey Institute is controlled
by five directors (one from each
State), and in each State we have a
working committee of three practical
honey-producers, the director being
one of them. The institute is unique
in the annals of apiculture in Aus-
tralia —a movement by producers for
producers. Finance is being arranged
by a small voluntary levy, and it is
expected that before long a continuous
flow of honey publicity will be
placed before the public with a view
to increasing the sales of honey on
our home market. If “Don Drone”
has any desire to assist the honey
industry we shall be happy to enrol
him as a member of the institute.
Hints for the Farm.
“Rooster”: Leeks are easy to
grow. They can be harvested
throughout the winter and spring.
Space them Bin. or 9in. in the
row with about 18in. between
rows. Plant in well-manured
soil, leaving 2in; or Sin. of
foliage above ground. Put very
little soil around the roots and
give a liberal watering.
“Cloudy”: Unless fruit-trees
give a suitable return for the
ground used, the time and water
spent on them, axe them. Un-
productive trees may be caused
by old age; unsuitability of soil
or climate; improper pruning,
watering, spraying and manur-
ing. For new trees the soil
should be well drained, deeply
dug, and (in SA.) the trees
spaced at least 18ft. apart,
“T.K.”: It’s my opinion that
too much fruit fed to hens in
bare yards will reduce their lay-
ing. If fowls have free range
on an orchard it is different. I
believe that rhubarb contains an
acid which is injurious to poul-
try.
“Booral”: There are different
causes of early moults in pullets.
Such birds are easily upset by
sudden changes of feeding,
changes of laying quarters, or
poor management. Mite-infested
houses also lead to it. All these
factors can stop laying in hens,
too, but pullets are more highly-
strung than hens. Painting the
roosts with half each of kero-
sene and sump-oil is helpful.
“K.T.”: Clean drinking water
for fowls is as important as
proper feeding. It should be
cool; fowls won’t drink tainted
or warm water unless they are
forced to. Never let the drink-
ing-vessel run dry; it can cause
crop troubles, if they are heavily
fed, if water isn’t before them.
When a bird has a congested
crop it is a help to massage the
crop in an attempt to get the
fowl to bring the food up.
“Bill C.”: Gambiar-pea has
made itself so much at home on
some Mackay (N.Q.) sugar-
farms that the Cane Pests and
Diseases Board has been asked
to declare it a pest. This has
been a great year for legumes
in the Mackay district. Fields
that were not planted with
Poona-peas or any of the other
approved green-manuring crops
became covered with rattlepods
and other wild legumes that are
as good as anything the farmers
can plant. With all this organic
matter and humus returned to
the soil, prospects for the 1950
plant crop look bright.
“Beroo”: A cane-knife is one
of the handiest implements to
have about. It will take a keen
edge and is more effective than
a sickle in cutting long grass. It
can be used to slice off unwanted
saplings or branches, cut bean
stakes or rope, or trim leafy
hedges and the edges of lawns,
particularly against concrete
paths. It is not much help in
dressing Sunday’s chook, but is
near perfect for taking its head
off. The long-handled type is
the most generally useful.
“Sundowner”: To reduce the
number of plant pests in your
garden keep down weeds and
grass, don’t leave heaps of rub-
bish, garden refuse, prunings,
timber-stacks and similar har-
bors neglected for long periods.
If insects are migrating from
adjacent land spray bottoms of
fences with creosote-oil and also
between the rails and palings ;
spray infested plants with a 0.2
per cent. D.D.T. horticultural
emulsion. If the bugs are very
numerous repeat after an inter-
val of a week.


df
cc Now I do without
Head Office meetings!”
B—J
□ □
Seeing my overseas representatives at regular
intervals is a ‘must’ in my business. One way
is annual meetings in the Head Office. But
this is expensive and means that all my branch
offices are under-manned at the same time.
My way is different: I visit my people in their
normal business habitats, so to speak. Fine, fast Speedbird service
makes this possible. I notify my men when to expect me, arrange a
booking through my local B.O.A.C. Appointed Agent—and off I go!
I save time and money, meet all the people I should, and really
learn lots more about my business.
Wherever your branch offices may be located, you can probably do
the same thing because 150,000 miles of B.O.A.C.
air routes link five continents and forty-two
countries. Remember too, wherever you fly by
Speedbird, you can expect the same high standard
of efficiency, courtesy and passenger comfort. It’s
Jill part of B.O.A.C.’s 30-year-old tradition of
Speedbird service and experience.
r
GREAT BRITAIN • USA • BERMUDA • CANADA • MIDDLE EAST
WEST AFRICA • EAST AFRICA • SOUTH AFRICA • PAKISTAN • INDIA
CEYLON • AUSTRALIA • NEW ZEALAND • FAR EAST • JAPAN
B.O.A.C, TAKES GOOD CARE OF YOU
30
FLY
C
Information & Bookings : Qantas Empire Airways Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Townsville, Cairns, Darwin (General Agents in
Australia), or from Booking Agents in all cities.
A5/AU
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS EMPIRE AIR-
WAYS LTD., TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD. & SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS.
ORLIK
O.P
STORM PRO(
/ FULLY GUARANTEED
{ LIGHTS EVERY TIME
\ Available at all leading
J tobacconists and stores
f/ Australian Agents'
Maurice Newstead Pty. Ltd., Sydney,
Leonard F. Newstead Pty. Ltd., Melb.
HIS
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features
cf high-priced Imported
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
•ion ol their cost. The
‘'National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce
Typinq. Writing. Plans.
Music, etc.
* Built entirely In Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents—
W. C. Penfold & Co. Pty. Ltd.
. Norman Bros. Pty Ltd.
• Vardon & Sons Ltd.
• Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PERTH
Str OfJ{Ta
t: , n S*st
~ n k in
the chai n
M
. RRV +,?t\
TDMATtC
AU
R O m
*/
STAi^OARD
'•■ ai*o
H E
B m
The most vital part of a bail-point
pen is the refill. Unless you are assured
of 100% service in this direction your
pen cannot serve you fully.
Biro the world's most famous ball-
point pen —is obtainable throughout
the Eastern hemisphere.
Discriminating writers choose Biro for
the dependability of this service as
much as for Biro's convenience and
ease of writing. Biro refills are
guaranteed to give satisfaction in
whatever country they are sold. They
start writing and keep on writing. Biro
service is always at your service.
All Stationers, Jewellers and Stores.
"Magnum" Refills 3/9 each.
Buy as many as you wantl
t3P3I/16
O
II
o
ISH BALL POINT PEN
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
Clark of the Coarse.
4* 4*
“Sydney bakers are accused of
attempting to stifle competition.”
They object to anyone else
trying to make a crust.
( 4* 4 1 4*
“Wanted, man with own lawn-
mower, perm, and prune trees.”
—Suburban paper.
Experience in maiden-hair
waving an advantage.
•I* 4*
Humble Men.
“It is surprising how conservative,
shy, and without ballyhoo are the
average prize-fighters.”
— Woman’s paper .
Surprising, indeed. From
Press interviews with visiting
pugs we’ve been led to believe
that all the conservative Ameri-
can boxers could be counted on
the fingers of one thumb.
“Great country, this, buddy,
sure,” says A 1 Kaltenbonka as
he steps off the gangplank.
“Sure I’m good—been crowned
29 times in my last 29 fights.
Never heard of the guy I’ll be
meetin’ here, but .you can sure
tell him to start selling adver-
tisin’ space on the soles of his
shoes. My best punch? Well,
they call it the ‘Abbo Diabolo,’
and, believe me, when I use it
my opponent needs a parachute.
Yeah, I’ll just coast along out
yere—a couple of k.os. and then
back home for the big title fight.
Have a seegar.”
Then, after the first fight, his
manager takes over the mike,
“Well, yes, it was a shock to
us —we got no excuses. But my
boy couldn’t use his left in the
fight; seems to be broken or
somethin’. Then, again, just as
he was winding-up for his Abbo
Diabolo he tripped on a piece
of rosin and dropped his guard.
Anyway, we’ll be back.”
But they never seem to come.
Col M.
.*!• 4* 4*
Guitarist, electric, wishes to meet
other players for mutual practice.”
—Suburban paper.
Must be able to play current
numbers without the audience
making light of them.
“It is whispered that even in Aus-
tralia the corsets worn by the dandies
of an earlier age are sometimes em-
ployed to reduce ample male girths
to more presentable proportions!”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
You can pick these chaps by
their drawn look.
Making a Hit.
“In accordance with the Dadaist
plan that audiences should be incited
to behave violently, hatchets were
hung around for the use of visitors
who wished to attack the works of
non-art on the walls.”
—Volume on modern art.
When I was young an aunt
sadistic
All starched and flounced con-
ducted me
To view a modern gallery
Run by some artists Dadaistic.
I paced about engaged in
gnashing
My six-year molars in disgust
Endeavoring to calm my lust
To do some pardonable slashing.
Alas! I yielded to temptation
And turned about to flee in fear.
But suddenly I stopped to
hear —
“What master painted this
sensation ?
“What artistry ! Ah. who could
match it?”
And then with malice in my eye
I chirped: “I cannot tell a lie,
I did it with my little hatchet!”
D. H. E.
I.Q. for Master-planners.
—The Government has
asked you to draw up. a blue-
print of another of its master-
plans. This one is to entail the
shifting of several hundred
miles of mountains, which are
to be pushed into the surround-
ing gullies. It is a long-range
project which the Government
expects to commence very
shortly, its completion being
planned for 1993, its total cost
approximately £4BO million.
The object of this national work
is to give the terrain, which is
“ Whacko—we made it!”
a famous tourist resort, a more
even look, its “experts” having
advised the Government that
more overseas dollar-bringing
tourists will be attracted to
mountains which are different
from the usual common up-
and-down type which they can
see anywhere.
The district which is the sub-
ject of the plan happens,
strangely enough, to be in the
electorate of a Minister whose
seat at the coming elections is
anything but a safe one for
“Labor.” In announcing the
plan towards the close of elec-
tion year the Prime Minister, in
one of his fireside yawncasts,
makes it• clear that the new
master-plan will mean the
almost immediate employment
of thousands of men under ideal
working conditions: 35-hour
week, special lottery facilities,
Wednesday afternoon off for the
dogs and trots, etc. Would you
deem it prudent, in view of the
fact that you are aware you are
in the running for the proposed
new job of Master Master-
Planner-in-Chief at £lO,OOO
p.a., to issue a public warning
that it will take up to eight
years should the present state
of the labor market continue
before even the preliminary
work can be commenced?
2—You have, on the instruc-
tions of your Government,
drawn up a master-plan for the
creation of a mammoth semi-
Governmental racecourse which
will have satellite racecourses in
the area, which is to be known
as the Peoples’ Pleasure Park.
As well as a model civic centre
to comprise luxurious stables
and jockeys’ and trainers’
quarters, it is also to include a
Jockeys’ University and an
Urgers’ College, a magnificent
club for the use of stablehands
and the park’s own printing-
works, which will print all
betting-tickets, race-books, etc.,
and is to have its own Workers’
Club. Provision is also to be
made for a Government brewery
to supply the needs of all
workers in this all-important in-
dustry.
Powers to resume (with no
appeals allowed) factories and
residences have of course been
provided for in the bill, which
the Government bludgeoned
through both Houses in record
time. After having drawn up
the plans'for the various stands
for this super-racecourse cap-
able of accommodating not
fewer than 250,000 you find that
you have failed to provide space
for the smaller but sumptuously
fitted-out stand which will be
for the exclusive use of Mem-
bers of Parliament. Would you
submit the master-plan to
Cabinet for final approval with-
out rectifying this, or point out
that it is only extravagance and
that members could be accom-
modated in one of the big pub-
lic stands?
3.—You have, in drawing up
a master-plan for a series of
super - highways designed to
eliminate the city’s traffic prob-
lems by the year 2020, made
provision for a “blue” belt
which will be contiguous to the
super-highways, and in which
nothing will be permitted by
the Government except national-
ised service-stations, subsidised
hot-dog stalls, lottery agencies,
offices and Government boards,
hoardings on which Govern-
ment advertisements only will
be allowed, news-stands at
which only Socialist and Com-
munist papers may be sold,
and licensed s.-p, shops, with
avenues of castor-oil trees
highlighting tiffs beautification
scheme.
In its original form the
scheme would involve the re-
sumption in an industrial area
of a tin-hare course and a night-
trotting course, and peremptory
demands have been made by
these bodies, as well as by the
Trades and Labor Council, to
have the plan altered so as to
leave these courses undisturbed.
Even before the Government
gives its decision on this point,
would you deem it politic to
amend the plan so as to obviate
any interference with these
properties, even though it in-
volves the entire recasting of
the plan and an increase in the
cost of the scheme by another
£500,000?
BO.
Dumb Preference.
The carpets that the salesman
spread
Were fat too loud, the lady said,
For her to spend her gilt on.
‘‘Each one,” she added, ‘‘shrieks
at me;
By way of contrast may I see
Some mute inglorious Wil-
ton ?”
BRIAN BUREAU.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4gd. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Pound for Pound
That the pound does not buy much in
the way of commodities is a common
complaint these days. But there is an-
other thing of which it buys little —labor.
Many theories on the low purchasing-
power of the pound are advanced by the
workers. Some tag the blame on the
Government, some the bosses and some
the profiteers, but very few of those fel-
lows who boast of their sweet jobs place
any blame on themselves.
If two men building a house slacken
and do, between them, only the work of
one man (not uncommon these days,
either), the labor costs on that building
are doubled and the buyer is astounded
at its high price or the low purchasing-
power of his money.
In these days of full employment,
with labor in demand, anyone can get
a job with big pay for little work. The
right to hire and fire is seldom exercised
because men are scarce. The result is
that many men who, a few years ago,
were classified as unemployables have
found their way into industry. Some of
them are not doing much more on their
jobs than they were on their beloved
dole, but, for their laziness, they receive
the same pay as a dinkum toiler. Many
of them boast that their jobs are “push-
overs” and that their wages are, more
or less, appearance money. They do
complain, however, that the pound does
not go nearly as far as it did in years
gone by.
For those who do not earn it, the
pound still gives good value. It certainly
buys more for them in the way of com-
modities than it buys from them in labor.
If the old barter system were introduced,
they would find that out. They would
find that they were producing far too little
to have anything left over to exchange
for other articles necessary to life. Under
that system they would have the option
of working or starving.
The man who is hard-hit these times
is the man who does a fair day’s work
for a fair day’s pay. He earns his pound,
but as a medium of exchange it returns
him far too little because the slackers,
by retarding production, send up costs
and prices. The toiler carries the loafer
on his back at work and he pays into
social services of which the loafer will
be the first to avail himself when normal
times return.
If every man rolled up his sleeves and
sent production figures up, the purchas-
ing-power of the pound would soon go
up, too. But while the demand for labor
outpaces the supply, and easy jobs
can be picked up by anyone, whether he
likes work or not, there seems to be little
likelihood of that. Perhaps the best way
out would be more piecework, so that
the toiler would get what he earns —and
the loafer, too. — Beau Forte (Vic.).
Queensland Fishing-grounds
A better way of asserting our White
Australia policy than talking about it
would be to do something practical in
peopling and developing the frontiers of
Australia along which White Australia
runs but thinly. A helpful guide in this
connection is a survey of fishing possi-
bilities in far northern Queensland waters
carried out by Queensland Government
and C.S.I.R. scientists. Particular atten-
tion was given to Princess Charlotte Bay,
200 miles north of Cairns, which the
scientists appraise as one of the richest
fishing grounds in Australian waters
awaiting development.
Showing that commercial fish available
there could keep at least 60 fishing-smacks
and their crews fully and profitably em-
ployed—twice as many as the large,
shallow and fish-laden Moreton Bay
carries—the scientists direct attention to
a developmental project which could have
immediate commercial importance and
distinct military and political significance.
The establishment of a fishing township
in this forgotten north would focus atten-
tion on the proper growth of the pen-
insula.
While finding Princess Charlotte Bay
a fertile field for commercial fishing, the
scientists point to many natural disad-
vantages ; hence, only a really serious
effort will ever give it an active part in
the commercial life of Queensland. On
the credit side there are only the fish —
apart from defence —but the fish offer
wealth to whoever is able to exploit them.
Barramundi, blue-tailed mullet, king
salmon, grunter, black bream, garfish (in
“swarms”), trevally and other edibles are
there in vast quantities, fed by the teem-
ing richness of the mud-slime which has
been built up through the ages by the
pouring down of eroded silt in the rivers.
On the debit side are distance from
markets, inaccessibility by land, an
abundance of crocodiles (the report says
“It is not safe to alight from a dinghy”),
mud-bars across the half-dozen rivers
which flow into the bay, steep banks and
mangrove swamps which make even
camping difficult, and a swampy back-
country. But pioneering enterprise has
overcome such obstacles.in the past. —
Dee (Q.).
Westralian Corns
Communists in Westralia, restless be-
cause there are not enough strikes there,
have turned their attention to lecturing
the timber-workers.
They allege that these workers are the
worst paid of their kind in Australia,
ignoring that just lately an agreement was
come to between the workers and the
sawmillers based upon a recent Federal
timber-workers’ award, and that that is
why there has been nothing to strike
about.
Like many other unions in the West,
that of the timber-workers has honorably
carried on under, its own and Federal
awards without any strike dislocation
since 1907, when there was a short-lived
stoppage. During that brief period (seven
weeks) the sawmillers combined their
staffs and produced most of what they
urgently needed at the Jarrahdale mill.—
D. Inkum (W-A.).
Home Prices
N.S.W. Premier McGirr is adamant in
his refusal to lift controls from the sale
of dwellings lest the downtrodden
wage-earners should be stamped still
further under the mire of capitalism.
While his intentions might be worthy, the
day-by-day history of real-estate transac-
tions indicates that the practice is not so
hot.
The property-owning and property-
buying public as a whole has long since
gone to the dogs morally, and makes no
secret of its methods of conducting busi-
ness. That may be all right in its way.
but it’s rough on those who really believe
in abiding by the law, particularly when
they have to realise on their assets and
take what the Government says they may
take.
The present control as it applies to
auction sales has reduced that business to
a farce. At auction, the highest bidder
shall be the purchaser ; then, at Land Sales
Control, all contracts are subjected to
price-fixing. The result is that the
potential home-buyer is at the mercy of
the moneyed speculator, who can run up
the bidding until the necessary deposit is
beyond the small man’s pocket—often
it is far more than the property is worth
and, indeed, more than will be paid for it.
Many tenants have lost the opportunity
of buying their homes through those cir-
cumstances. Who is getting hurt? Not
the wealthy speculator, who can, at his
leisure, develop his bargain on the black-
market, but the wage-earner, whose fund
of ready cash was too meagre for him
to compete, even though in the long run
the property would be sold at a price well
within his limits.
Next, consider the case of a clerk who,
before the war, bought through a build-
ing society a brick home in an up-and-
coming suburb for £750 and now finds it
necessary to shift his place of abode. His
home is solid and his garden well de-
veloped a nice little layout. In the area
to which he must move are no houses for
sale except those being built. He finds
that a house such as he built for £750 now
costs the best part of £2OOO. His own
place, valued on current replacement
costs less depreciation and repairs, is
worth £l5OO of anyone s money. The
Government, which hasn’t got over
the shock of the war, says the selling
price shall be based on the value at
February, 1942, and fixes an amount in
the region of £6OO.
What is the clerk going to do? Abide
by the law, make a less-scrupulous party
a cold present of between £BOO and £9OO,
and then take on the responsibility of the
£2OOO job? Or be a “crook” and go on
the blackmarket in company with per-
haps 90 per cent, of dealers in i cal
estate? Whatever choice he makes the
well-being of the nation is not enhanced.
Gladstone, a radical in his day, once
said that the proper function of govern-
..indivick (N.S.W.).
The N T
t- . , •„ j
-fi is time we killed the notion that the
N.T. is purely cattle country nothin.,
wTth pa S Ss of .Sf Punjab ani
■he Central Province m India, where
former
brother, but his methods are primitive
and his soil less responsive; also, Indian
soils, because of lack of manures, are de-
country ** NX * f
Men stationed in the so-called “dry
centre” during the war saw rivers 10ft.
deep and 100 yards wide coursing down
in flood, and then suddenly going to earth
to replenish subterranean reservoirs. At
Wycliffe, in particular, that subterranean
water was pumped up and used for irri-
gation on Army farms, where vegetables
were . grown in profusion without
manures. Yet the surrounding country
was “purely cattle country.” Scraggy
beef cattle walked five miles to the
nearest bore for a drink and five dusty
miles back
North of Birdum is the monsoon
country, saturated with rain five months
of the year. Cattle country, again, by
all accounts It is a safe bet that were
Canberra situated at Birdum the C.S.I.R.
would be turned loose to do its best,
That able collection of men and
women scientists only recently turned its
attention and collective brains to a
stretch near the Ninety-Mile Beach
where sheep made no headway on appar-
ently lush country. By an application of
metals deficient in the soil, the scientists
restored the balance and sheep now
thrive.
It seems almost criminal to write the
whole N.T. off as “cattle country”
without close scientific investigation.
Spending a few months in India last
year, I saw a great deterioration in land
produce, plus a frightening birthrate.
With their innate courtesy, Indians were
loath to criticise, but I did hear a few
home truths. “We are not worried about
your immigration laws,” I was often told.
“We like the British, and we wish we
could emulate your determination and
fortitude ; but Australia is empty, has the
same land as we have, the same rainfall
—why do you keep us out?” I heard
that question many times.—s G.R. (Vic.).
Free Dope or Service
If Senator McKenna wants to help the
sick and needy let him, spend the tax-
payers’ money on the outpatients’ de-
partment of the Royal Hobart Hospital.
That antiquated building has long out-
lived its usefulness, and it says much for
the loyalty and hard work of the doctors
and nursing staff that they are prepared
to carry on under such shocking condi-
tions.
The dispensary—which is part of this
warren —is responsible for all hospital and
outpatients’ prescriptions: if any com-
mercial chemist attempted to run his
business under such a handicap he would
soon find himself looking for another
job.
That is not all. Behind the modern
part of the hospital there still is the old
block —decently obscured by the modern
facade —condemned years ago but
used as a military hospital from 1940-43,
and now as the children’s hospital!
Similar conditions probably exist
in many Australian hospitals, and the
Senator would be better employed
modernising this part of the health ser-
vices than in forcing “free” medicine on
people.— Obelist (Tas.).
“The Vanishing Tradesman”
Everything said re “The Vanishing
Tradesman” (B. 13/4/’49) is true, but the
trade-unions alone are not responsible
for the lack of apprentices.
As an 0.-1.-C. of Artisans in one Com-
monwealth Department before the de-
pression I succeeded in having apprentices
appointed in three trades —four carpen-
ters, two painters and one signwriter.
.Those lads survived the depression and
are all competent tradesmen now.
No further appointments have been
made since, despite the fact that the
artisan staff has been trebled. Eveey
application made by me for appointment
of apprentices met with the stereotyped
reply that the department could always
obtain suitable labor and there was no
need to train artisans.
Small wages are a great deterrent to
Jads who would like to learn a trade,
and the prohibitive cost of tools of trade
is the deciding factor. On the wages paid
apprentices in the building trade, few
parents can afford to apprentice their
lads.
In my apprenticeship days lads were
obliged to work the ordinary hours and
attend technical schools at night. Today
apprentices attend technical classes mostly
during the daytime at the employers’
expense. Even so, there is little attraction
for a youngster to become apprenticed
when he can earn far better wages as a
process-hand.
In another 10 years, unless something
is done to remedy matters, competent
tradesmen will indeed have vanished. —
Helldud (N.S.W.).
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 21
Across.
I—Mother1 —Mother dropped when squashed.
(6)
4—Firm one who comes to earth in
a utensil. (8)
9 Rodent to see before he takes tea
to a wheel. (7)
10 — Led back with thanks in some
mouths. (5)
12— Shrimp boilers muddled the pre-
occupations of many nineteenth-
century U.K. statesmen. (5, 8)
13 — American dish upset America to
see the remnants of a burnt bed.
(9)
15— Exist. (3)
16 — Melody unavailable 100 miles up.
(3)
18—Overshadows and dismisses a
former N.S.W. left-hand fast-
medium bowler. (9)
20 — Widowing a goose while peeping.
(6, 1,6)
21— Aladdin met him after a little
friction. (5)
22 Such kitchen equipment makes
you silent and confused. (7)
(cryptic type.)
{Solution in next issue.)
24 — The coppers and 1 and everybody
grow old in a mineral figure ot
speech. (8)
25 Footless boy to duck dad back-
wards. (6)
Down.
1 — Mother and you are against the
grain when completely disrobing
an English author. (7, 6)
2 Crowds are in the middle of a
number of linked events. (7)
3 Consume. (3)
5 Arctic shoe boat for spiders and
such like. (14)
6 N.S.W. town is a mixture of land
and earth. (9)
7 Star seen in Mother-of-Pearl. (7)
8 — Scorch plenty before X upset
food for a European city. (14)
11—One levelled the semes with a
wonder before 50 finishes off the
poet. (6, 7)
14—N.S.W. town is most undecided
about its health. (9)
17—Fat article in the bandstand. (7)
19—South is muddle-headed when
encumbered. (7)
23—Namby-pamby takes a step up.
(3)
Solution to Crossword No. 20.


1949
crucial
m
Socialism...
or Freedom?
1949 will be a most important year in Australian history.
Why?
Because in that year—this year —the people will decide how
we, our children and our children’s children, are to live.
The coming Federal election will not be just a matter of
deciding which political party will give us the most in
hand-outs.
Nor will it be a question of voting for the party which
guarantees full employment, for a world shortage of goods
guarantees employment for every Australian who wants to
work.
Thje 1949 Election will kn decided on Great Issue:
Servitude to the State or Freedom of the Individual.
LIBERALISM INSISTS on individual liberty.
LIBERALISM BEMANDS rewards for individual ability and application.
LIBERALISM WILL NOT subscribe to a drab, dull, regimented of life.
lam an Australian and a Liberal. I claim to speak for a great majority of my fellow Australians. And I say this: That our
people will not vote for Socialism and Servitude to the State.
They will vote for
LIBERALISM AND FREEDOM.
GIVE FINANCIAL SUPPORT TO THE LIBERAL PARTY
—send your contribution to State Headquarters,
R. G. MENZIES,
PARLIAMENT HOUSE , CANBERRA .
15C - 4 - 9 -
Authorised by D. M. Cleland, 30 Ash Su, Sydney*
