

GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
A PRODUCT OF THE
K&O
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol.'7o—No. 3606
Wednesday, March 23, 1949
Price 6d.
Registered at the General, Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
DARTMOUTH CASTLE—“BULWARKED ROUND AND ARMED WITH RISING TOWERS."
DARTMOUTH CASTLE consists of a square and a round tower dating
from the fifteenth century. Adjoining are three platforms of guns, the
little church of St. Petrox and the ruins of a more ancient castle, the whole
being enclosed by a wall and ditch. The hill which rises behind to a height
of 300 feet is crowned by the remains of another fort, Fort Ridley, which is
mentioned by Fairfax in his dispatch to the Parliament under the name of
“Gallant’s Bower.” The round tower of the castle was in recent years used
as a magazine, but in former days it held a stout chain, which was stretched
each night during time of war to the Castle of Kingwear on the opposite
side of the estuary of the River Dart.
Dartmouth town lies half a mile inside the estuary, and its charter began
in 1226 when granted by Henry 111 to Edward de Gloucester. By 1342 it was a
port of great consequence, as it furnished no less than thirty-one ships to the
Plantagenet fleet for the siege of Calais, a larger quota than was supplied by
any other town in the kingdom, excepting Fowey and Yarmouth. It was the
most famous of all the nurseries of Devonian seamen. Chaucer’s typical
shipmen in The Canterbury Tales came from Dartmouth.
It is recorded that a fleet of crusaders, under Coeur de Lion, assembled
in Dartmouth Harbor in 1190. In 1377 the town was destroyed by the
French, who swept the south-west coast from the Isle of Wight to Plymouth.
In retaliation, Dartmouth combined with Plymouth in sending out a fleet
which ravaged the coast of France, burning and sinking forty enemy ships.
In 1404 the French sought revenge, but their expedition against Dartmouth
was defeated, with the loss of 400 killed and 200 prisoners.
During the Wars of the Roses, the Lancastrian party used Dartmouth as
a port. In the Great Rebellion, the town declared for the Parliament, and in
1643, after a month’s siege, it was taken by Prince Maurice. The Royalists,
however, after an interval of three years, were attacked try Fairfax, who
carried the place by storm in January, 1646, in spite of the number of fortified
towers and ports with which he had to contend.


Learn
fieelflftce
Journalism
ai HOHF
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin,"
My Name
My Address f
S.B. 149
AGE
The Red Page
POWYS ON RABELAIS.
The difficulty and the danger that
attend upon a reading of John Cowper
Powys’s Rabelais (Bodley Head) are
caused, principally, by a bee that has
lately got into Mr. Powys’s bonnet. This
bee—which is Mr. Powys’s affectation of
Welshness—buzzes so persistently through
the book that one seems to be reading
not about Rabelais but about Merlin, not
about a kitchen but about a bwthyn:
something which is as irrelevant as it is
unpronounceable. Mr. Powys, when the
bee is buzzing, writes like this:
The truth is that Rabelais’ grossness is
much more Welsh than it is James Joycean,
for all Panurge’s Hibernian saffron. I once
used to visit a certain homestead or bwthyn
on the side of a Welsh mountain, where a
great Welsh friend of mine, a very singular
character, lived alone. This old gentleman
had a tendency when the humor was on
him to act a ballade precisely in the style
of Rabelais’ admired Songe-Creux, trilling,
that is, some indiscreet catch while he
hopped and skipped to the tune in the
manner of an aged but ribald goblin.
When these Welsh goblins hop and skip
in Mr. Powys’s book —and they prance
on almost every page—there appear to
be two very good reasons why they should
be absent. In the first place, a corres-
pondence similar to that which Mr.
Powys traces between Celtic mythology
and the sources from which Rabelais took
Gargantua and Panurge could be found
by comparing the Gargantua story with
any group of myths in The Golden Bough,
and Gargantua is no more “typically”
Welsh than, because of, say, Maui, he is
“typically” Maori.
In the second place it is difficult to be-
lieve that Mr. Powys himself fully be-
lieves in the claims he makes for Wales.
He is not, essentially, a Welsh writer of
the contemporary regional school. His
father was Vicar of Chaldon, in Dorset-
shire, and Powys’s own best novels, Wolf
Solent and The Glastonbury Romance —
written while he was lecturing in America
—are located in the English countryside,
which Powys interpreted with remarkable
sensitivity.
Of recent years, since he has settled in
Wales, Powys has, as it were, become a
convert to Welsh regionalism; and, in
Owen Glendower and the present book,
writes on Wales with an enthusiasm which
is both extravagant and tedious. Whether
the conversion is genuine, or whether Mr.
Powys, as his lifelong impishness would
almost make one suspect, is merely intent
on maddening his readers, it would obvi-
ously be much better if he left Welsh 5
regionalism to those to whom it comes
naturally and allowed his own Celtic
strain to show, as it did of old, simply
in a profound and poetic sympathy with
nature and with great literature.
When, out of respect for Mr. Powys's
wild and wayward genius, one has disen-
tangled'his remarks on Rabelais from the
clutter of Welsh hobgoblins, the book re-
mains formidable. The publishers have
placed one obstacle in the reader’s way
by printing oh paper so thid that the type
shows through from the back of the page ;
and Mr. Powys, who is not of course to
be blamed for this misfortune, offers the
further obstacles of a style which grows
increasingly hyphenated and exclamatory
and of a set of his own translations from
Rabelais.
These translations are, up to a point,
mildly interesting. They are designed to
show that the great Urquhart, who had
and like Powys an exuberant
love of life and an even more exuberant
love of words, did not literally translate
the original but added to Rabelais a good
deal of his own roaring fun and fancy.
But when Urquhart’s “huge and mighty
puss” had been reduced to Powys’s “big
cat,” what has, after all, been proved?
Only that, on the few occasions when
Rabelais forgot to be Rabelais, Urquhart
very sensibly corrected him.
Mr. PowyS’s point as to a subtle dif-
ference of flavor between Urquhart and
the original was worth making, but it
could best have been established either
by a complete new translation or by a
selection of significant paragraphs. Mr.
Powys’s translations, which are lengthy
but incomplete, make too prolonged an
interruption in his critical essay and, to
most readers, for whom Urquhart is
Rabelais, will seem chiefly another exhi-
bition of impishness.
These disadvantages may, having been
stated, be dropped at last with the goblins
down a convenient well. Mr. Powys,
amidst the darkness of his style, shines a
clear and penetrating light on Rabelais:
Piety worships what is. Morality regu-
lates what is. The Triune God rewards
and punishes what is. But this goes beyond.
It is committed to nothing. It takes an
eternal leap into the dark. To know your-
self for a rotten coward, an unspeakable
fool, an ill-bred cad, a treacherous,
lecherous, unkindly villain, and yet to keep
that “certaine gayet£ d’esprit,” and yet to
defy all * that is and to laugh, is the
Pantagruelian secret —
and Rabelais is a noble subject to write
upon. It has been said by an eminent
authority that, to prevent the censorship
of books, everybody should be compelled
to read Rabelais at the age of nine. Con-
curring with that, one may add that all
who missed him at that age and are now
wowserly inclined should be compelled
to read Mr. Powys on him: whereby they
will be properly punished for their sins
and rewarded beyond their deserts.
Poetry and Magic .
There were two poems in Rosemary
Dobson’s first book. In a Convex Mirror,
that might have indicated, to anyone
skilled in prophecy, what she would
write in her second. One of these verses
dealt with “The Tempest*’ and the other
with the Sleeping Beauty of the fairytale.
Enlightened at least after the event,
one observes that practically all the
poems of The Ship of Ice (Angus and
Robertson) are a logical development
from the earlier book, and, in one way
or another, dabble with magic. Rose-
mary Dobson knocks a scarecrow on the
head with a wand of words, brings him
to life, and shakes from him
Poems such as these move in the world
of fairytale, of Alice in Wonderland.
They are sophisticated fairytales, “with a
sly wink for the farmer’s daughter,” but
still products of the fancy ; which, while
charming in itself, is not quite the same
thing as poetic vision. But Rosemary
Dobson can write with vision as well as
with fancy. When she sees a shaft of
sunlight at a gate and turns it into “an
affable stranger” who is a phantasm of
morning, she is still a considerable dis-
tance from the heights from which
Shelley saw
A paradise of vaulted bowers
Lit by downward gazing flowers
And watery paths that wind between
Wildernesses calm and green
Peopled by shapes too bright to see—
but she is closer to those steeps of vision
than she is to the meadows of fairytale
where the snowman and scarecrow stand.
She stands on her own foothills of vision,
and very pleasant hills they are:
Who went before through the gate —this
affable stranger
Who touches the topmost rail and leans to
dazzle,
Spinning his hat for greeting. Morning,
Golden and rakish, who stole his shirt from
the scarecrow
To shroud the fire at heart. Good Morn-
ing
Swing back the gate, good fellow.
Swing back the gate! There is nobody
there. The sunlight
In golden footprints runs up the ridge of
the hill.
There are times when, because he
illuminates reality with the wilder, more
beautiful reality of vision, Shelley seems,
under Shakspeare, the prince of all poets,
and when one agrees with Quiller-Couch
that of all Shakspeare’s plays the greatest,
because it is supreme among the products
of the human imagination, is “The Tem-
pest.” And then, perhaps because the
air of the farthest heights is too thin for
us, or because even the poets cannot
breathe it for long ; or perhaps because
it is, after all, an even more marvellous
feat of creation to perceive and portray
in ordinary human beings their full
spiritual intensity, one comes back to
Browning and “Macbeth”: the solidity
of the earth, the stupendous human
drama.
At her modest distance behind the
masters, Rosemary Dobson manages to
walk in both these worlds. She creates a
small and delightful circle of magic where
anyone who cares for Shelley and
Prospero could walk with pleasure;
and, not only because she shares with
Browning an affection for the Old
Masters of painting and because there
are touches of drama in her sparkling
“Devil and Angel” sequence and in her
title-piece “The Ship of Ice,” but because
of the laughter that runs like a bright
stream through the whole book she is
unexpectedly secure on the earth. Laugh-
ter is a difficult medium for visionary
personages to take shape in, but it is an
excellent means of communication be-
tween human beings.
But while Rosemary Dobson can, and
does, walk in both these worlds of reality
and of vision, she does not walk very far,
or very fierily, in either. The limitations
of her talent (as it has so far revealed
itself) are shown most clearly, as is
natural, in the most ambitious of her
poems, “The Ship of Ice.” Dealing with
a ship which, with all its crew, was frozen
for forty years in the ice-pack of the
Antarctic, this poem might have carried
to the extreme of fantasy that theme of
suspension in time which, dating from
the first adventure with the Sleeping
Beauty, runs through all the poems ; or
it might have been, simply, a human
drama; or it might have been, like “The
Ancient Mariner,” a narrative in which
the natural and the supernatural were
blended.
But, lacking a central drama, “The Ship
of Ice” falls to pieces as a narrative.
What remains worth while in it are the
fragments, which —except for an interest-
ing touch of portraiture in the glimpse
of the captain’s wife —are either lightly
amusing fancies (the sailor frozen for
forty years with a bucket of ice in his
hand) or beautiful descriptive lines in
which are mingled, as in the shorter
poems, fancy and vision:
This was the story of a ship caught in a
bottle,
And that bottle was Time—l confuse with
another image—
Becalmed in Time and sealed with a cork
of ice.
It might have been striking indeed to
take someone like the Ancient Mariner
and seal him in a bottle with a cork of
ice; but the Ancient Mariner was born
out of rum, laudanum, guilt and despair,
and Rosemary Dobson’s skipper out of
a pleasant sense of fantasy and a half-
amused interest in suspended animation.
One must take the poem for its frag-
ments, and take them as one takes the
shorter poems—as the expression of a
rare, original and delightful personality,
presented in an exquisite technique that
can make a blank-verse poem as com-
plete as if its form were nailed in rhyme.
a hat full
Of bird’s song
And a heart of gold straw.
Or, similarly, she turns a snowman into
an old, cold, living gentleman
Lost all day in deep thought,
With a head full
Of snowflakes
And no trouble at all.
Palmer's Picnic,
Of recent years, Australian novelists
have been going underground: Katharine
Susannah Prichard at Kalgoorlie, and
Gavin Casey around the same district.
Sydney “Sunday Herald” has been
supplying free with every issue a pamphlet
instalment of a novel about Newcastle
coalmines by the former president of the
Miners’ Federation, Harold C. Wells;
and now here is Mr. Vance Palmer with a
novel, Golconda (Angus and Robertson),
about a silver-lead mine in Queensland.
Miss Prichard’s book has the hustle of
an election campaign seen from party
headquarters; Mr. Casey’s is like the
diary of a local resident interested in min-
ing machinery ; Mr. Wells’s like the work
of a union organiser who has won a
prize in a “Sydney Morning Herald”
literary competition ; and Mr. Palmer’s
has the gentle and translucent tranquillity
of an impressionist painting.
Golconda is a well-designed story. It
begins with a view of the mountain from
the aeroplane which is taking Kloss,
representative of overseas mining capital,
on an inspection. Claims have been
pegged out on the mountain —three com-
pany claims and a number of smaller
“poor man” claims. Kloss makes it clear
that he will not be interested in putting
15,000,000 dollars into the show until all
the preliminary work has been done ; and
thus it becomes the job of Keighley,
manager of the Golconda Mining Com-
pany, to play-down the importance of the
field, and keep development stalled until
the small holders, starved or dispirited,
can be bought-out cheaply; whereupon
Kloss returns with his money; develop-
ment begins and book ends.
Mr. Palmer fills in this time with duties
and diversions. The field splits into three
camps: the companies, led by Keighley ;
the small claim-holders represented by
Christy Baughan; and the workmen for
the companies, led by Macy Donovan.
Old May Varnek, veteran of the fields,
provides meals in a hessian shack; a
brothel and sly-grog shop arrives, staffed
by the madame’s daughter and a Chinese
girl; then wives come up from the towns
to join their husbands; a schoolteacher
is sent to take care of the children; a
picture-show opens with a dance for the
whole community.
Then the characters go to work upon
each other. May Varnek’s daughter,
Neda, the apple of Donovan’s eye, runs
away with a young Italian whom May
and Donovan have rescued after a
brothel brawl; Donovan and the
manager’s wife, Mrs. Keighley, float out
of the picture-show dance into one an-
other’s arms; the schoolmistress, with a
sad life behind her, and Mahony, dis-
missed from the central office of the
union, come together.
Manet’s painting “The Picnic/’
where two artists, heavily and darkly
clothed, are shown in the country-
side chatting in statuesque unconcern
over the head of their nude model,
recurs to the reader of this book
—nrobablv because this is a similar
people have the air of having been put
there to be painted: Mrs. Keighley, for
instance, whose handling of Donovan
when he comes to town with the idea of
renewing the delights of the picture-show
dance is a fine bit of suburban interior
painting ; or Neda, distrait and remote
adolescent, interested only in the figures
she chips out of stone, hardly worried and
almost unaware that she is carrying young
Farrelli’s baby; or old Christy Baughan,
veteran of William Lane’s efforts to estab-
lish the brotherhood of man in Paraguay,
who talks much of what Mr. Palmer
feels about that affair, clings to his hold-
ing the only one Keighley really wants
—and dies in a delirium, after shooting-
up the township from his bunk on the
mountain.
But the finest creation in the book is
Donovan, the two-up-school proprietor
turned union-organiser. We are shown
Macy Donovan from all sides, from the
time he accepts the job: his organising
ability ; his power with men, his ingenuity
and resourcefulness; and the book ends
as it began, in an aeroplane, only this
plane is taking Donovan to the capital,
where he has become a member of
Parliament for the electorate which
includes the Golconda field.
It is not often that you see so excellent
a creation as Macy Donovan flying out
of a novel, and it would not be surprising
if Mr. Palmer were to fly him into a
sequel, showing Donovan’s life as a
Labor politician. Little glimpses we have
been vouchsafed in recent court cases
suggest that such a novel could be inter-
esting and even exciting.
Done fo Death.
Joan of Arc has been done to death,
and at first sight it is surprising to find
her being done to death again ( The
Saint and the Devil; Hamish Hamilton)
by Frances Winwar, the recent biog-
rapher of Georges Sand, because although
Joan of Arc had plenty of sand, she did
not live that more —fulfilled —existence
which Miss Winwar, among modern
biographers, seems most fitted to record.
For Miss Winwar adds to her scholar-
ship, honored by critics on both sides of
the Atlantic, a capacity for understand-
ing and sympathising with the tortuous
processes of a woman’s mind,, especially
when these are mixed-up with what is
called her heart, and to a point much
further than a male intelligence cares to
follow her ; she is like a wife in a quarrel,
whose memory goes back over every
detail of every time when her husband
has failed her, betrayed her and frus-
trated her development . . .
Joan of Arc is hardly a subject for
such solicitude; and the most Miss
Winwar can do with Joan is to tell us
what the Inquisitor says to Joan, and
how Joan comes back at the Inquisitor,
and, like a woman interesting the sewing-
circle in her operation, make sure that
no detail is spared of the death by fire
of her heroine. But one cannot help
thinking that Miss Winwar might not
have tackled St. Joan at all, if it had not
been for Gilles de Rais, Marshal of
France, companion in arms of Joan of
Arc, flower of French chivalry, sadistic
murderer of boys and girls.
Lately our papers have been full of the
crimes of the second of two English
examples, but the wealth and power of
Gilles de Rais, which increased his scope,
and a certain generosity of spirit which
alternated him between orgies and the
pure singing of his choir-boys, made him
the tall-poppy of his kind; as described
by one of his creatures:
.... the said Gilles de Rais boasted that
he took far greater delight in killing or
cutting the throats of the said boys ana
girls, in having them killed and seeing them
grow weaker and weaker and die, in sever-
ing their heads and their members and
seeing their blood flow, than in any other
source of pleasure.
Here, then, is ample compensation for
the lack of femininity in Joan of Arc;
a Devil to be opposed to Joan’s Saint,
joined to her also by the paradox ot
having been burnt at the stake; a puis-
sant spirit capable of testing all Miss
Winwar’s powers of understanding, sym-
pathy and forgiveness;--
How write of the cruelties of this bete
de luxure? The mind shrinks from it ana
the hand is numb. But they must be
told
And nobly Miss Winwar proceeds with
the dreadful catalogue; and, with the
Inquisitor and the Church, she excom-
municates Gilles de Rais, hears his con-
fession, receives him back into orthodoxy,
tenderly hangs him, mournfully bur
him, and remorsefully hurries his scarr
body away to burial among the duk >
and nobles of Brittany. ,
It is interesting to see &at Gflles
Rais, as Barbe-Bleue, or Bluebeard
figures in the folklore and singing-games
of the children of Brittany, and to con-
sider that, because of the e^Pert i r bly
ment of Miss Winwar, he will probably
be a suburban lending-library her ,
the standing of Rhett Butler, etc., tor
picnic, where some of the more noticeable some years to come.


TRUTH MIN ADVERTISING
NTHOSY HORDERNS’
Listen to “Writers’ Playhouse ”
on 2UE at 8.30
every Friday night, when a
specially written Play by an Australian
author will be presented.
m
V-.»
m
jr
N'J'N
NS-
%
mk
\
V.
m
ft
/
//»
m
m
m
s
N&22fc
m
, /;
Mi
,Vi/%f Jf
gg
Up
zs
; m V
l m' <
■m -#»* *
i w
vMk
M
,n
0/,.
m
U
SS\
2S
w
(Si
sz
C ■ :-:•
»:.; 1
m
WMImWM
m
it
a
$
W
m
m
S 5
m
KS
•08
t^A
«4
\ v
P 5 *
28
HUGE VARIETIES AND STYLES OF
' • V
English and Australian
AT PRICES THAT CANNOT BE REPEATED
(Reading from left to right)
In the single-breasted Australian
Wool Tweed silk lined Goat,
the Raglan shoulders, vertical
pockets and loose-hanging back.
In Brown and Grey check design.
Sizes 3 to 7. £5/6/6
the polo style, Australian Tweed
Overcoat, the deep collar,
two vertical pockets, belt and
full lining. In Light Fawn.
Sizes 3 to 7. 107/6
n English Wool Tweed Herringbone
design, double-breasted
style, the full lining, and shades
of Brown, Mid or Dark Grey.
Price. £lO/13/-
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ MEN’S WEAR —GROUND FLOOR, GEORGE STREET. BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


4$
' t f ♦
✓.i- *
../•.W ****s•
•#**#*#,**.*
....A-Jf.jS v y #! *f l is' S* *
jj -j, ;v {. $ f ji ff
»a»*»*itit**M*
'iitiiii***
<<fl
f **«m wiwi* #
d-$t *fv& * ** « $ i&tM £ £ **■£*'*'* v
i-a-8 J{S4SWWS!SiSSSSJ}t?‘|
&$ % » SMf *v»** ** 552 *££fH Jt JbS'
11 2 : f fill
\ > t *■■{> -4.
•’f **■■*'# W ■*.---.5-f i,»
> 5 ..*-V- * 4 *.♦
' § *•*■ !«:♦- v <■*> f>t< £«- ? .•»• >. vi
•** *■■ ;-*» » i ~-• fi* f
' v .* * * ** *. *s**> vjv, . ,
■<f. * t-| •*•• ,f r» ■■•■*■*■•*■ 4 i»f 44. r.«
i *'*.
■ ” “f j '*« * *» if>.y *»> 'v* f.+riifii,
■w XX X £Z m X -**•**s** j»** W^ww 1 75 . X'X
#» >A; A- vA X, a jM-t* 1* '•'# v
2 2 2 S ***•**■'»*<
■l ! :4
1 ! • »*■ p i >«« s>->!V : V w ’«•»•>
*V # *
f ? lit f ti S;Ss««SSSJST4:s 5
# #«■* f : ’
i-M M i ## i .<-
S * »>* »J # a*< -c
4 : 4 4» # W»*f ; t •»-
vi-4 4.4 # m « 4 * : .
*.' A I<. ,w ..A*M M, '***&&£»»&#■&&&&A&&^ '
/ V «*•<*• <* <*»
4-t *■*'*'*&
cs. & £ <»?
*'*t*im-
Sr X: a ;s. a ***** * **ff m* « 2 5
-JJ .sL .£..J2;a a. a £ I
5 S.S:S I-|
£' j«J£ 5 K *»■ i* t*. * * a - «t,«
■Af
7////,\
~
*///////*
.<////}■.
'MwM/k
... -.... /// ■ /\
/■syh
\ 'ySSS w j///f/r':
t
’//
ABBOTSFORD N. 9, VICTORIA
C T OR I A
'. ’ '. '. k
56K
.■;■: .a,:\>'v s
KS ;\ x;
DISTRIBUTED THROUGHOUT THE WORLD


The Bulletin
Vol. 70—No. 3606
Wednesday, March 23, 1949
NOT IN HARMONY.
“Despits denials from Mr. Dedman (denials come very easily from him), reports persist that the United States is afraid of leakages of scientific
defence information from Australia."
"Take your hurdy-gurdy somewhere else, Dedman; and I’m giving nothing to THAT monkey.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; ,
Box 252IBB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
MR. BROADBY OBLIGES.
Against a background of strikes which
temporarily denied street transport to
Brisbane, meat to Adelaide, fire-brigade
services to Melbourne, and gas-coal to
all fair, advancing Australia —not to
mention other stoppages —Mr. Broadby,
president of the Victorian A.L.P., used
the occasion of the Melbourne “Labor”
Day dinner to give the political show
away.
Mr. Broadby was evidently trying
to help Mr. Chifley out of a tight place
which every day and in every way is
becoming tighter and tighter. He said:
We of the industrial movement should
do everything in our power to avoid strikes
between now and next November. Union-
ists should ask themselves before they
indulge in strikes whether the benefits they
might win would outweigh the possible
effects on the future of the Chifley
Government,
True, Mr. Chifley’s Postmaster-General
Cameron, grown silver-haired in the
advocacy of revolutionary mischief,
not long ago asserted that there were not
enough strikes to please him and that
he wished he were younger to foment
more of them; but that sort of advice
is out of order for the next seven months.
He was not asked to speak at the dinner.
Instead, Forceps Minister Chambers,
locum tenens for New Guinea Minister
Ward (temporarily laid aside through
political misadventure over Biilolo timber
reserves), took the mike. In a strain that
must have greatly annoyed Mr. Ward,
Mr. Chambers was inspired by the grim
prospects depicted by the A.L.P. presi-
dent to rise and throw bricks like any
A.W.U. man at Mr. Chifley’s “philo-
sopher” friends:
The Communist party is “Labor’s” great-
est enemy. Until you come out and stand
four-square on the policy of the “Labor”
movement you will be used as pawns and
toys. You will be destroyed at the next
election unless you stand together for the
“Labor” party.
Always, of course, it is some other
evil influence that is destroying “Labor”
in power, never “Labor” itself. At last
year’s A.L.P. conference in Victoria presi-
dent McAlpine told them it was the
unions’ sabotage of conciliation and
arbitration that was shaping to put them
all in the wilderness. Later, on the
northern coalfields, “Fixer” Ashley, in
the Prime Minister’s presence, told the
miners that a continuance of coal short-
age threatened the end of “Labor”
in office. Speaker Rosevear, in N.S.W.,
and King Fallon of Queensland have
both blamed the Communists for
putting the “Labor” Government on the
skids. They are all quite right, so far
as they go. But the courage to take cor-
rective action is quite beyond them.
During the two years since the Chifley
Government obtained control of both
houses of the Federal Parliament,
“Labor” has
Lost the State elections in S.A., Westralia
and Victoria —in the second and third of
these with the defeat of “Labor” Govern-
ments.
Retained office at N.S.W. elections with
the loss of 5 seats and in Queensland on
a minority vote..
Saved itself in the Tasmanian elections
only by a hair’s-breadth, with the result
that Tasmanian “Labor” has been a nark
to Canberra ever since.
Lost four dear-pointer “Labor” seats at
by-elections, three in N.S.W. and one in
Victoria, and suffered a loss of votes in
the by-election for the safe Hartley
(N.S.W.) seat hardly less serious than
another defeat.
Lost the Prices Referendum.
Lost two Bank-Grab Act cases in the
High Court and publicised all over the
Commonwealth an action of political per-
fidy and contempt of the electorate.
Seen Mr. Chifley’s personal defeat in
Abercrombie shire elections.
Been loaded down with all the backlash
of the campaigns against Communism by
the A.W.U. and the Lang party; with
serious anti-Communist splits in the Sydney
and Melbourne Trades Halls; and with the
public disfavor created by the Keane trunks
case, the New Guinea timber scandals, and
American critidsm regarding the security
from Soviet stooges of defence secrets in
Canberra.
Sundry Liberal- and Country-party
spokesmen have expressed themselves as
impressed by the heavy task of winning
the Federal elections this year. If any
of them would prefer to carry the load
which is booked for “Labor’s” back, then
he must be a glutton for uphill work.
The truth, growing clearer daily, is that
the “Labor” party is dishing itself in the
Federal theatre and in every State, be-
cause, by its own confession, it has
arrived at the end of its alleged useful-
ness. There is ever a hard core of
electors who would vote for a “Labor”
candidate even if he were a wall-eyed
mulatto. But, in the main, “Labor’s”
view is that if it is not allowed to
socialise the trading banks in order to
by-pass the Constitutional inhibition
against Federal control over industry, then
it cannot continue to function. Mr.
Ward, its chief industrial spokesman, said
so a few months ago at the Six-hour
Day dinner in Sydney:— .
Nationalisation of banking is funda-
mental to the “Labor” party’s policy and
without it “Labor” cannot exercise political
power. We are hoping the Privy Council
decision will be favorable to the Federal
But I believe that, irrespec-
tive of what may be the decision of the
Privy Council the issue is beyond doubt
without that goal “Labor” will cease to
be a great political force.
And Munitions Minister Armstrong, Mr.
Chifley’s choice as pilot for the King on
the proposed Royal visit to Australia,
said somewhat earlier in the piece that,
even if the Bank-Grab Act were held un-
constitutional, “there are men of in-
genuity in the Cabinet who will see that
it is brought into existence.”
This determination to force upon the
country a revolution in defiance of the
people and the Constitution alike has an-
tagonised the electorate quite as much
as the obnoxious policy itself. Nothing
is more significant of “Labor’s” decline
than the electoral temper in New South
Wales. More than ever in the enlarged
Parliament, that will be decisive at the
Commonwealth polls. Confessions by
“Labor” spokesmen themselves have
underlined the public resentment aroused
by Canberra’s
Failure to curb the spread of Communist
sabotage in Australian industries;
Failure to reduce strikes;
Failure to get coal, on which “Labor”
in 1946 staked its appeal for confidence,
or increased production generally. v
On the domestic side these will be the
issues at the elections. The Concord by-
election would have shown a much
heavier defeat of “Labor” if electors had
appreciated that the McGirr Government
was withholding rises in the prices of
milk and gas until after polling-day, and
if the announcement had not been de-
layed until the last minute that the Gov-
ernment was identifying itself with Can-
berra’s Bank-Grab appeal to the Privy
Council.
This suppression of matters proper for
the electors’ judgment gave the lie to the
whole “Labor” campaign. Concord
demonstrated other trends of no little
importance in the coming Federal con-
test. It revealed not only the voting
strength rallying to Mr. Lang’s assaults
on Federal “Labor’s” tolerance of the
Communists —and this was confirmed in
Cobar by the local “Laborites’ ” refusal
to accept the State A.L.P.’s vote-cards
giving the Communist second preference
—but also the increasing disposition of
Langist voters to vote Liberal second
rather than official “Labor.” The
McGirr party made full use of the slogans
invented in the Canberra Caucus for the
Federal campaign:
The twisting of Professor Hytten’s address
at Hobart Science Congress to represent .
the Liberals as wanting a proportion of
workers permanently unemployed;
The pretence that high prices are the
result of the “No” vote at the referendum;
and
The argument that if the Liberal-Country
parties really mean to ban Communism
they would ban it in the States which they
control.
None of this went down in Concord.
On the contrary there is every evidence
that under “Labor” the perpetual strikes
and the freedom of Communists to do
their worst as wreckers in aid of Russia’s
“cold war” against Western (and Aus-
tralian) democracy decided the issue.
Upon the public sentiment thus evinced,
plus the opposition to that socialisation
programme “without which ‘Labor’ can-
not exercise power,” the Chifley crowd
will soon be obliged to spend some
serious reflection.
Concord has confirmed that the
McGirr outfit is a serious handicap for
Federal “Labor” to carry. Recrimina-
tions will be considerably enlivened if
Mr. Chifley loses the Bank-Grab appeal.
And from Bourke to the Yarra discontent
within “the movement” is tipped to force
a vent at this year’s Sydney and Mel-
bourne A.L.P. conferences which will
make last year’s exhibitions at those
gatherings look like a Sunday-school
picnic.
"Labor's" Defences.
The only major British-speaking Do-
minion which refuses to face the facts
of the world situation is that with
its “Government” at Canberra, That
“Government” obstinately refuses to
recognise that the Western world is one
and indivisible in the matter of security.
One might have expected it, as soon as
danger was obvious in the European
zone, to make plain to Britain that if
there were any attack on the United
Kingdom this country would at once take
it as a declaration of war. It might have
announced, when the idea of the Atlantic
Pact was broached, that, in the event of
war or preparation for war, it would be
a case of “one in, all in” so far as Aus-
tralia was concerned.
This would not have been merely a
display of adherence to the ideals of the
British Commonwealth. It would have
been a move based on sheer common-
sense and a sense of self-preservation,
since if war does break out it will not
break out in compartments. There will
be no question of Atlantic blocs or
Pacific blocs, but only one of the U.S.S.R.
against the rest, with the main battlefield
west of the Elbe, or perhaps in India.
It will be a question of sending troops
and supplies wherever they are needed,
and there will be no chance to sit on the
sideline.
Australian Ministers were bitterly criti-
cal of the failure of the British Govern-
ment to take steps early in the last war
to make Singapore unavailable to an
enemy; but neither then nor now would
they have listened to the suggestion that
Singapore and Malaya were, and are, as
much Australia’s responsibility as the
United Kingdom’s. While the Chifley
Government was willing to keep a
brigade of troops in Japan for orna-
mental and ceremonial purposes, it was
not willing to send forces to Malaya
at a time when the United King-
dom, for six years a battlefield—
during which it had sacrificed its re-
sources lavishly in the interests of civilisa-
tion as much as its own safety—was hard
put to it to keep some of its long-service
units there to prevent Malaya falling into
the hands of its (and our) enemies.
Now, in every department of produc-
tion important to Australian war poten-
tial, the Communists have their own
sweet way, keeping coal and metal out-
put apparently deliberately in a condi-
tion which will assure that if war breaks
out with the U.S.S.R. the Australian cup-
board will be bare.
While professing a sense of intense
urgency in respect of defence, this ur-
gency is being dishonestly applied by
Canberra “Labor” merely for the pur-
pose of getting over bars in the Constitu-
tion to the socialisation of industry.
The defence implications of the ship-
ping scheme which the Government has
brought forward this session are pure
bluff. Even suave Parliamentary pres-
tidigitators like Mr. Chifley obviously
found the Government’s viewpoint in-
defensible, and the rejection of the Oppo-
sition’s suggestions for the banning of
Communists from shipping - control
authorities showed the basic hypocrisy
of everything the Government had said
about the matter. "
The Snowy River scheme, also linked
formally with defence, has no relation-
ship to it, except for the vague aspiration
that in eight years —if hopes are realised —
it will provide a very limited quantity of
power for defence purposes. The whole
association of defence with it is merely
to allow the Government to apply to the
area, in peace-time, war-time restrictions
as regards secrecy and compulsion of
labor, together with price-fixing and pref-
erences and priorities.
Behind these schemes, when the real
intentions of the Government are probed,
except for socialistic intent there
is nothing but vagueness and diver-
gence of opinion. While the Prime
Minister and his Minister for Defence
profess to believe that there are dangers
which call for urgent and far-fetched
legislation of the character of this ses-
sion’s more iniquitous bills, Dr. Evatt, in
his position as president of the United
Nations, has made it clear through the
utterances of,, his secretary, Mr. Lie,
that he proposes shortly to point a
stern finger at all the Great Powers and
to question them as to what they have
done to settle their differences—differ-
ences he must know have arisen solely
from the aggressive and irreconcilable
attitude of one rapacious Power only.
At home Mr. Dedman states the case.
First he envisages the possibility of “a
security arrangement” which might be
made through the United Nations Or-
ganisation, whose military staff consists
of representatives only of the Great
Powers, which Dr. Evatt and Mr. Lie
attack and admonish for their lack of
peaceful habits: Britain, France, the
United States, Russia and China —yes,
China.
Next, Mr. Dedman thinks we “might
have a defence plan made in co-operation
with the United Kingdom and other
components in the British Common-
wealth of Nations.” It is to be noted
that this comes second in his order of
thinking. The key word in the statement
is “might.”
Lastly, he meditates on “the inherent
right under the Charter for every country
to adopt and develop any plan it thought
necessary to defend its own territory.”
It isn’t a right “under the Charter.” It is
an immemorial and inalienable right.
All Mr. Dedman’s views come back to
the idea that “our own defence plans
through the British Commonwealth will
have to be integrated through whatever
plan is drawn up under U.N.O for
general security” ; with, in the long run,
“an international Security Force under
U.N.0.,” dominated, of course, by the
only people we are ever likely to have
to fight in our generation, the U.S.S.R.,
which has used and will continue to use
its veto to prevent anything which might
destroy its power of aggression.
If this fails, Mr. Dedman thinks “the
next-best thing” would be “some regional
pact in the Pacific area” which “would
be of the strongest character and have
not only members of the British Com-
monwealth associated with it but all
nations within the Pacific area.” On
reflection, Mr. Dedman thinks this is the
best plan of all.
Other people do not agree. Twice
recently the matter has been brought up
in the Canadian Parliament by Mr.
Howard Green, a Vancouver member,
and the Government has hastened to
deny any knowledge or association with
a proposed Pacific pact. The hurried
move of Nehru and his friends in India
to drift towards a republic and get out
of the British Commonwealth altogether
suggests a desire for freedom of action
so that they may avoid offending or being
actively brigaded against U.S.S.R., if the
issue arises. Canberra’s other Pacific
friends in Asia and Malaysia would be
nothing but a millstone round our necks
in an emergency, A Pacific pact, there-
fore, would boil down to a huddle of
Dr, Evatt’s favorite and bloodstained
nations sheltering behind Britain, the
United States and Canada, if it will come
in, without there being any quid pro quo.
Whilst the present Canberra policy
prevails we would certainly have second
or third priority for protection with the
great Western nations —that is, if we were
not willing to take our share in warding
off the primary onslaught in Europe. The
Government should immediately and
publicly declare itself in support of the
Atlantic Pact, and announce its accept-
ance of a share in world defence and not
merely local defence. If it shows unwil-
lingness to do this, public opinion should
be expressive enough to force it.
Chi-Bey on "Freedom. 11
The trouble with this nationalised
medical scheme which the Canberra Gov-
ernment is trying to force on the doctors,
nurses, dentists, chemists and the general
public is that nobody knows how far
coercion will go under regulations to be
drafted by Ministers without Parliament’s
having any knowledge of them in advance
These “details of the service and its
administration,” said Senator McKenna
when introducing the legislation, “will be
left to be implemented by regulations.”
Meanwhile Ministers alternately try to
threaten and cajole the doctors into
“trusting the Government.” All spokes-
men for the Government kept very quiet
during the debates in Parliament about
the question of fees. The doctors are to
be paid only half-fees by patients, the
other half is to come from the Govern-
ment. In introducing the medical bill
McKenna indicated that payment would
depend on how the doctors behaved. His
words were;
The Government will pay half the
fees charged by a doctor on behalf of the
patient, in accordance With a prescribed
schedule, with full co-operation from the
medical profession.
Presumably if full co-operation is not
forthcoming, the doctor can whistle for
the other half of his fees.
Chifley told his Caucus meeting, when
objectors there had to be silenced, that
“there is a fight on,” The Government,
he said, “Will insist on the doctors doing
a fair thing for the people of Australia. ’
Yet a week later his letter to the B.M.A,
in reply to protests assured them:
Doctors will remain free to stay out, par-
ticipate in, or withdraw from the scheme.
Those participating will be obliged merely
to observe simple rules necessary for ac-
counting.
He then went on to say that, unless
doctors meant to discriminate in standard
of treatment given between patients under
the Government scheme and private
patients paying the full fee, there would
not appear to be any reason why they
should wish to continue private practice!
The only comment this statement de-
serves is that it is insulting, a distortion
of the facts, and in direct conflict both
with the whole coercive purpose of the
“free”-medicine and medical Acts and
of the unknown regulations to be issued
under them, and with previous statements
by Ministers, including Mr. Chifley him-
self, ~
If all doctors are free to stay outside
the Socialist scheme, what is all the
Socialist row about?.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Killing Corns by Kindness.
Whatever it was that brought Mr.
Attlee’s special envoy, the Socialist Lord
Listowel, on a special mission to confer
with Mr. Chifley, nobody will credit the
semi-official account of it published from
Canberra for St. Patrick’s Day.
This was that the talks with Lord
Listowel had facilitated “the emergence
of a broad but British Commonwealth-
wide plan to combat Communism” by re-
moving the cause of it. This will be
done by “improving living standards and
social services,” and establishing “guaran-
tees of economic security to all sections
of the population.” Once this is done
the Communists will vanish amid shrieks
of baffled rage. The semi-official intima-
tion adds (Melbourne “Age” report):
The plan is not expected to be im-
plemented by any hard-and-fast signed
agreement. Nor will it actually exist on
paper. It will necessarily be of a somewhat
vague nature in detail.
When the average citizen has read this
semi-official poppycock he is supposed
to be doubly gratified—in that he him-
self will have no more cares about his
job, his wages, his house and his good
time on earth, and that ipso facto Com-
munists will become extinct. He will be
further uplifted by the news that
In his talks with Cabinet, Lord Listowel
is believed to have concentrated mainly on
the relation of these economic matters with
the proposed Pacific Pact.
The impression conveyed is that these
political wizards have also banished all fear
of war, as a supplementary benefit inevit-
ably following upon this brilliant plan.
And it is all done by raising wages,
shortening hours and increasing “social
security” (pensions and “free” services) of
every sort.
What the public is not told is how this
plan to kill Communism with kindness —
by raising living standards—is to be
carried out in India, Pakistan, Burma and
Malaya ; and what good that w r ould be
anyway if it were not also pursued in
China and Soviet Russia itself. But such
considerations do not deter these
Socialists, and Canberra is delighted to
announce that the intentions of the U.K.
Government, as outlined by Lord
Listowel, “coincide in principle with those
of the Australian Government.”
No doubt of that. Has not every
Minister in the Chifley Cabinet met every
demand for action against Communist
traitors by declaring that the only pos-
sible way of combating them is to go on
improving the standard of living, some-
thing which Communists everywhere de-
terminedly oppose?
Socialism Hits Blair Athol.
Stung by Opposition comment on the
delay in getting the Blair Athol opencut
coalfields (there are 200 million proven
tons of good coal within 70ft. of the sur-
face there) into production, Queensland
Premier Hanlon had to admit that sociali-
sation in Britain had nearly settled the
thing:
Changes became necessary in the com-
panies interested in the scheme because the
Electric Supply Corporation (Overseas),
Ltd., with which the Government entered
into an agreement by Act in 1947 fol-
lowing the British Government’s nationalisa-
tion of electricity undertakings, found itself
without the resources it had expected would
be available to help develop Blair Athol.
Mr. Hanlon, after somewhat heatedly
declaring that his main job had been “to
keep hungry ghouls from getting their
fingers into it,” then outlined the new set-
up. While he was in Britain E.S.C., Ltd.,
told him the new position, and it was
agreed that “an agreement would be
made with the Power and Traction
Finance Co., Ltd.,” to handle “the next
stage of the investigation.” To separate
this from the P. and T.F. Co.’s other acti-
vities and to “facilitate actual financing
of the project when it is necessary to raise
the required capital,” a company would
be registered in Queensland. E.S.C., Ltd.,
would, with the approval of the Govern-
ment, assign its rights and obligations
under the Act to this company in con-
sideration of an allotment of £50,000 of
issued share capital in the new concern.
After this, on 20/1/’49, there was a
meeting of P. and T.F. Co., Powell,
Duffryn, Ltd., and Sir Alexander Gibb
and Partnexs, which asked the consultants,
whoever they may be, to inquire into;
Capital cost of getting the coal, screening
it, etc., transport, and port facilities.
Cost per ton of operation at the coalfield.
Cost of transport a ton delivered at port,
based on an annual production of 3 million
to 31 million tons, and, alternatively, 61
million to 7 million tons.
On 25/2/’49, Lazard Bros, and Co.,
Ltd. (associated with P. and T.F. Co.),
told him that, subject to Government
approval, it was proposed to register at
once the Central Queensland Coal De-
velopment Co. Pty., Ltd., authorised
capital £250,000, issued capital £50,000.
On the report of the aforesaid consultants
would depend whether or no P. and T.F.
Co. would acquire all the shares in
C.Q.C.D. Co. Pty., Ltd., and undertake
financing the whole project.
The only alternative, in Premier
Hanlon’s view, would have been for the
Government to serve notice on E.S.C.,
Ltd., because of its apparent inability to
discharge its obligations. (Under the
1947‘Act the Governor-in-Council could
determine the agreement between the
Government and E.S.C. if the corpora-
tion failed to observe certain provisions of
the agreement within a reasonable time.)
It is all a big come-down from the
grand plans of 1946-47. If .British
Socialism could so reduce to helplessness
a corporation which, Queenslanders had
supposed, was capable of investing many
millions in the original Blair Athol
scheme, building railways, ports, towns
and ships in the process, and could re-
duce a big, practical plan to the vague,
doubtful thing the Premier now says it
is, then heaven save this country from
Socialism.
A Dying Countryside.
Latest N.S.W. statistics reveal some signi-
ficant figures, broken down from the 1947
census, to show what has been happen-
ing in the maldistribution of population in
the chief industrial State of the Common-
wealth.
On June 30, 1947, the population-pic-
ture was:
City of Sydney 1,484,004
Balance County of Cumberland 206,706
Greater Newcastle 127,138
Outside Newcastle .. .. .. 100,350
Great Wollongong 62,960
A total for these coastal city areas of
1,981,158, or 66 per cent, of the total
State population of 2,984,838. The area
LIKE A SHAG ON A ROCK.
in which this 66 per cent, of the State’s
people lived is less than 1 per cent, of
fts total area.
In the remaining 99.1 per cent, of the
area of N.S.W. lived 996,159 people.
There were 179 on Lord Howe Island,
and 7342 “migratory and not geographi-
cally assignable.”
The 996,159 outside the metropolitan
areas were distributed in urban munici-
353,657 ; in shire areas, 627,914 ;
and not more than a third of the latter
in unincorporated towns of some 500
population. In the unincorporated portion
of the Western Division —40.5 per cent,
of the State’s area —were 14,588 persons.
Densities of population to the square
mile were:
Sydney metropolitan 6,057
Greater Newcastle 3,346
Wollongong 22 °
North Coast -
Tablelands J?
Western Slopes ~
Plains i
Included in the Tablelands is Central
Tablelands 9, and in Plains the Murrum-
bidgee Irrigation Area 36. For all
N.S.W. the average density was 9.6.
There are 54,362 more females than
males in the Sydney metropolitan area,
and in all N.S.W. a female preponder-
ance (for the first time) of 416. The ex-
cess of females, with one slight exception,
runs from the age-group of 50-54 on-
wards (after-effects, partly, of the 1914-18
war). .
Outside the metropolitan areas there
were 13 country towns with a population
exceeding 10,000, 12 with between 10,000
and 5000, and 17 with between 5000 and
3000. Of these 42, as many as 22 cannot
show an increase of 1000 inhabitants in
the interval since 1933.
These figures are truly alarming evi-
dence of decline in the rural population.
If creation of new States can correct the
drift, then a subdivision of N.S.W. and
Queensland ought not to be delayed any
longer.
Between 1933 and 1947 the numbers
in the metropolitan divisions of Sydney
rose like this:
City of Sydney .. .. 88,308 to 95,925
Inner industrial .. .. 224,937 228,081
Illawarra 277,572 353,528
Western 237,147 280,491
Northern 230,512 295,988
Eastern 176,791 229,991
Contiguous areas .. 80,794 144,934
These figures should help to show why
the Sydney transport services are becom-
ing more and more inadequate.
Ben (1) in the Box.
Another week of an inquiry in which
Friends of the Soviet are the principal
parties:
Senator Ben Courtice, successor as Minister of
Customs to the late Keane, Joe Goldberg’s
patron and pal, was one of last week’s wit-
nesses at' the royal-commission inquiry into the
New Guinea timber and Swedish typewriter
affairs and the nature of fellow-Minister Ward s
connection with them. Before he left the box
Courtice had made it clear that the Prime
Minister himself would have to mount it.
The Customs man did not deny the evidence
of the Parer brothers, Ray (acquitted on the
conspiracy charge) and Leo, that Leo had
apprised him of a bribery allegation against
Ward —though not specific, serious in all con-
science—months before the date (November 28,
1947) on which Ward communicated with the
Crown Land authorities. Indeed Courtice ad-
mitted the receipt of a letter from Leo Parer
dated May 16, 1947, as well as a later visit
from that person (June 7, Leo had said), both
aimed at securing the cancellation of a de-
portation order against the German Junge by
threat. . „ , , „ T
“All my life I have voted ‘Labor’,” Leo
wrote, “and [l] would not like to put a
weapon into the hands of the Opposition ; but
unless I get an immediate and a favorable
reply I will have no alternative but to give
certain information to the enemy [yes, ‘enemy ]
which will lead to the political extinction of a
Minister.” At the interview, after repeating
the Junge demand, “Parer said that if some-
thing were not done he had every intention
of disclosing information about a dishonest
transaction in which his brother Ray and Mr.
Ward were involved.”
“What’s it all about, Leo?” asked Courtice,
who confessed a 10 years’ acquaintance with
his visitor; but the latter “went on to discuss
other matters.” For his own part Courtice
said “This information is too big for me to
carry—l will pass it on to the Prime Minister”;
and “next morning at the hotel I mentioned it
to Mr. Chifley.”
I said Parer had made a fantastic state-
ment about something that had happened in
New Guinea in which it was suggested that
Eddie Ward was involved. I said I did
not regard the matter seriously. Mr.
Chifley said “It is wonderful what stories
we get in our jobs,” or something like that.
There was no further reference to it.
Indeed, “there was no further reference to
it” till “court proceedings started” long after-
wards. Then Mr. Courtice “reminded the Prime
Minister that I had mentioned this incident
to him previously”; if the reminder brought
any reply witness did not give it. Ward? To
Courtice, a wonderful fellow; “even his
most bitter opponents have not assailed his
personal integrity.”
It might be thought that the panegyrist would
have read every fine of evidence given at the
inquiry, especially as he was to be a witness;
but he admitted that he hadn’t. If young
Mr. Belcher, late of the British Labor
Ministry, ever reads it through he will bitterly
regret the geographical misfortune which
assigned him to Westminster, instead of to
Canberra.
Testimony in Ward’s favor was given by
Inspector Wilks, of the Commonwealth police.
The inspector produced notes of an interview
with Garden, who, it was recorded, allowed that
Ward had been privy neither to the bogus
grant of a concession to Hancock and Gore
nor to the passing of money. Apropos of
Kingsford, the bank clerk who disappeared after
producing documents relative to Ward’s safe-
deposit, the inspector said Kingsford was listed
as “a missing friend,” and declared himself
satisfied that the disappearance had nothing to
do with the court proceedings.
Wilks was not the only official witness
examined last week. Others were James
Cavanagh, a New Guinea Government forester,
who produced “letters” he had written to
J. B, McAdam, acting-secretary of the Depart-
ment of Forests, after denying that he had
tried to deceive the Commissioner by not pro-
ducing them. One dated May 25, 1946, began
with a request for information about “the
strength of this concession to Ray Parer,”
going on to aver that “if political influence is
going to ruin the department we might as well
give New Guinea back to the missions... .the
area given to Parer would have £lO million-
worth of timber on it.” In another letter
Cavanagh asked McAdam to let him know
“how much truth there is in the statement that
the concession has been granted to Parer,” the
grant of which would be “a violation of all
our ideals.” McAdam testified that he had
not mentioned to Ward in 1946 that there
was any allegation against the Minister, answer-
ing Justice Ligertwood’s natural Why? with
the words “I don’t discuss rumors like that.”
Of External Territories Secretary Halligan,
Garden alleged that he had intimated to that
worthy (1) that Ward had promised Ray Parer
a Bulolo Valley timber licence, and had “said
in November, 1943, that it would be issued
within two weeks,” and (2) that he, Garden,
had told Halligan that, with Ward’s authority
he had written to Hancock and Gore that the
licence to Parer, as “a Territorian,” would be
issued. Garden went on to demand produc-
tion of Halligan’s “memo” of the interview:
“they took down everything I said, even on
the telephone,” and “I know Ward had a
quarrel with Halligan about ‘memos’.” Of
Ward Garden alleged, after admitting to
Ward’s counsel that his former hero was
abstemious, zealous and “a drawcard,” with
strong support in the party (“he was beaten
by only two votes by Dr. Evatt for Deputy
Prime Minister”), that Ward “fell for the
[corrupt] Farrell proposition hook, line and
sinker.”
From the box Garden pronounced the in-
quiry “a whitewashing affair,” and this his
son Harcourt repeated from the floor of the
court. Harcourt asked the royal commissioner
to recommend the appointment of a Public
Defender “to act in the interests of my father
and myself.” “Your application will be con-
sidered,” replied Justice Ligertwood, whose con-
duct of, the investigation has added to the high
respect felt at the N.S.W. Bar for the S.A.
judicial bench; but after consideration it was
refused.
A Drama of the North.
When this was written young Kevin
Callaghan, aged nine, of Palmerville
(N.Q.), was all right and minus an
appendix which, one way and another,
gave the lad and those associated with
him an adventure dangerous and toilsome
enough to make a book.
Palmerville is away up in the Gulf
country, isolated enough at any time, but
at present, what with the “wet” season,
flooded rivers and impassable tracks, a
place few sick Australians would want to
be in. Jim, Kevin’s elder brother, was at
Fairview, 56 miles away, when he heard
of the appendix and that the Cairns fly-
ing-ambulance would fly to Palmerville
for Kevin if a landing-strip could be
made. Jim rode all night, gathered in his
father, brother Bert and Will Dawson,
and they rode to Palmerville in 1(H hours,
only to find the Palmer in flood at the
homestead. The four swam it and
cleared the landing-ground, nine years out
of use. The plane arrived with Deputy-
Superintendent Howard and Captain
Ludbey aboard, picked up Kevin and his
mother and took off.
It hit a tree, crashed and was put out
of action. The four people escaped un-
hurt. At Cairns, Superintendent Clark
couldn’t hire a plane. He phoned
Laura police and instructed a land party
setting out for Palmerville to bring the
boy in. Meantime a serviceable Gipsy
Moth was found and flown to Palmer-
ville by an A.N.A. pilot, Captain Jackson,
but it also crashed when taking off. Once
again the passengers escaped injury.
So the land party from Fairview went
on, picked up the boy and set out for
Laura, a 65-mile trip over two ranges and
with the flooded Palmer and George
Rivers to cross. At Laura a score of men set
to work on the airstrip and another gang
got to work trying to make the road to-
wards Palmerville fit for a motor vehicle.
From Palmerville to Fairview the
ambulance-bearers crossed the two rivers,
holding the boy over their heads. They
rode through tropical rain, floods, mos-
quitoes and crocodiles. Twenty-six
miles from Fairview they met Constable
Booth in an Army motor-truck, a three-
ton “blitz-buggy,” and it bogged 28
times between there and Fairview. After
more of this sort of thing they eventually
got the boy to Laura, where an A.N.A.
plane, detoured from the Thursday
Island-Cairns run, picked him up and
flew him to Cairns.
Brisbane “Courier-Mail” has launched
a fund to replace the wrecked
Cairns ambulance-plane, which cost
£4500 and was insured for only £lOOO
because the ambulance service couldn’t
afford a bigger cover. It had made 154
mercy flights and was carrying its 183rd
patient when it crashed. Cairns aerial
ambulance serves an area from T.I. west
to Normanton and south to Lyndhurst,
west of Townsville, and has saved at least
three lives in a country where lives are
precious. “North Queensland Register”
sees in the episode the need for a heli-
copter, and has invited Canberra to
supply one for the isolated North.
Another ambulance-plane for Cairns
is urgently wanted. The “Courier-Mail”
will welcome any contribution from any-
where.


CRAVEN
A 1
It’s their consistent
freshness that
makes me prefer
CRAVBN'A'
’■ J - : ,v
im
41
8435E/R
CARRERAS LIMITED — OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
POLITICAL POINTS
For once under the New Order a High
Court decision has gone against the Gov-
ernment without there being raised a howl
of “political bias,” and without any re-
marks being passed anent the ages of the
Judges or suggestions of their replace-
ment. Mrs. O’Keefe’s appeal against Mr.
Calwell’s attempt to deport her was up-
held by a fpur-to-two majority. The
minority judgment in favor of the Coim
monwealth was given by Chief Justice
Latham and Justice Owen Dixon. There
is talk of amending the Immigration Act
as a result of the verdict. If loopholes
have been revealed there is a case
for blocking them up, but few will dis-
pute that in the O’Keefe affair the legal
verdict and that of common humanity
were identical.
Opposition - leader Menzies thinks
“Labor’s” open-hearted chatter about a
December election is a blind; he expects
the balloon to go up much sooner. At
any rate he is wasting no time ; he started
a tour of N. S. Wales on Monday with* a
visit to Newcastle, and intends to take
in the southern and western coalfields as
well as the main rural centres.
It is tipped that in retaliation for the
Atlantic Pact Russia will denounce her
non-aggression pacts with Britain and
France. That would be a decided im-
provement on the way she honored her
non-aggression pacts with her neighbors.
There are whisperings of a Pacific Pact
in which this country would be pledged
in mutual bonds with the new countries
of South-East Asia. It’s the sort of thing
that will appeal to head-in-the-clouds
dreamers, but a more realistic plan
would be adherence to the Atlantic Pact.
Despite talk of geographical propinquity
our real community of interest is with
Britain, U.S. and the Western Powers.
And there would be no fear of the teeth
of that pact being sunk in our own neck.
If Senator Large is to be relied on and
has not been misreported. Dr. Hunter,
secretary of the 8.M.A., seems to be an
example of that oft-heard-of creature the
man of many parts. In a short speech to
the Senate Large referred to him as “a
witch-doctor,” and said he was “very
Fascist-minded.” He then spoke of
doctors as “sheep following a bell-wether
named Hunter.” What is worrying the
profession now is whether they have been
following a Fascist-minded witch-doctor
posing as a bell-wether or a Fascist-
minded bell-wether posing as a witch-
doctor. Whether either or which is correct
remains for the moment unanswered.
The Concord by-election bore out the
old maxim that a race is never won until
the numbers go up. The Sunday papers
gave the verdict to “Labor,” and on
Monday most opinion seemed to be the
same way inclined, though Premier Mc-
Girr must have had some misgivings
when he hinted that if the postal-votes
didn’t go the way he wanted he would
order an investigation into the system. In
the final analysis Mutton, the Liberal
candidate, won by 17 votes —11,184 to
11,167. He collected a majority of the
postals, but that wasn’t the deciding
factor. Official “Labor” had counted on
getting 80 per cent, of the Lang man’s
preferences, but only 72 per cent, came
their way.
The “political philosophers” of the
‘Tndernesian Republic” last week shot
two of U.N.O.’s investigating officials,
one a United States colonel, who died
with six bullets in his body, the other a
British officer; also murdered was a
Dutch conducting-officer. No murmur
of protest from U.N.0., of course. It
accepts this sprt of . thing from its
proteges as it accepted the murder of
Count Bernadotte. But what an uproar
there would have been from Canberra to
Lake Success if the Dutch or British had
committed the brutal murders!
Country-party-leader Fadden has chal-
lenged the P.M. to prosecute him over
the “secret documents” —they purported
to be a report of a meeting at No. 10
Downing-street, at which Chifley was
present, and conveyed ‘the impression that
Britain and America felt that all was not
well with Australia’s security measures,
or lack of them. At the time Chifley
and Dedman ' said the documents
were either forged or stolen. Early this
month the establishment of a Security
Service was announced and a bill was in-
troduced tightening up security in the
C.5.1.R., the cause of the original shindy.
Fadden was wasting his breath; there’ll
be no prosecution.
Timber again! Queensland is setting-
up a commission to inquire into the price
and quality of timber produced and sold
in the State for housing and furniture.
Everyone connected with the industry
has promised to co-operate, so the com-
mission should learn quite a lot—or
nothing.
The Federal Government is going to
serve summonses on one of Mr. Chifley’s
“political philosophers,” Sharkey—when
its agents can find him. As in the Bris-
bane case against Rowe of the A.E.U., it
is astonishing how difficult it is for the
police under “Labor” Governments to
lay hold of a Communist on the very rare
occasion when one of them is required
to answer a legal charge. It is expected
that, if Sharkey is ever prosecuted, his
case will be sub judice for the remainder
of the life of the Federal Parliament. Sub
judice could be so handy a card that
other Communists might arrange with
their admirers in the Chifley Ministry to
have legal charges initiated against them
to cover the duration, of the Federal elec-
tions.
William Morris Hughes, 84 years
young, M.H.R. since the opening of the
first Federal Parliament and a member of
the N. S. Wales Parliament for six years
before that, last week won the Liberal
nomination for Bradfield—the top end of
his old North Sydney electorate —against
three contenders, one of them Turner, of
the N. S. Wales Assembly. Talking to a
“Sydney Morning Herald” reporter be-
fore the decision, Billy told of an earlier
occasion when he stood outside a hpll
waiting for the result of a pre-selection
ballot:
There were only two candidates, and
supporters of both sides w.ere there armed
with wool-hooks... .One of my lads rushed
out and yelled, “Run for your life —you’ve
been selected.”
The Queensland People’s party is run-
ning protest meetings against the Hanlon
redistribution plan to increase the State
Parliament from 62, to 75 members. At
first the Kewpies thought the plan would
right a few electoral wrongs, but on a
second look they condemn it as a “ghastly
mockery of democracy” designed to keep
“Labor” in power for ever,
A move is reported from Queens-
land to ask Hanlon to nationalise
bread-baking. The suggestion doesn’t
come from the unions or doctrinaire
Socialists, but from bread-manufacturers
who complain that through rising costs
and fixed prices the trade is on the verge
of bankruptcy. It isn’t likely that any-
thing will come of it. Queensland
“Labor” is Socialist in theory, but bitter
experience of State butcher-shops, State
cattle-stations, State fisheries and other
costly ventures have taught it a lesson.
Ex-journalist Haylen, M.H.R., who de-
votes much of his time these days attack-
ing his former profession, hit out at em-
ployees of the “Land” newspaper re-
cently. In an attack on fellow-author
J. T. Lang, he mentioned that the Big
Fella’s book Communism in Australia
was printed at the “Land” office, “a
48-hour shop which employs non-union
labor.” Employees of the “Land” have
denied the impeachment, are asking the
Printers’ Union to take action against
Haylen, and are writing to the Parkes
electoral council asking for a withdrawal.
Lang’s response was a claim that when
Haylen first stood for Parkes his cam-
paign literature and “How to Vote” cards
were printed at the “Land” office by the
very men he now accuses of being non-
unionists.
Churchill, in one of his finest hours:
I did not become the King’s first Minister
to preside over the liquidation of the British
Empire,
An unspoken Canberra version:
I did not become the King’s first Minister
to- bother my head about any charge of
corruption against a colleague.
Another stupid and malicious coal-
fields-strike has run its useless course
leaving a legacy of lost production to be
made up. Direct action by a section of
A.E.U. men on the Maitland field last
week closed down about two dozen mines
with a loss of 20,000 tons a day. There
was no vital principle at stake. Mr.
Gallagher had heard an appeal from the
union against an award and had reserved
his decision. The men insisted on an
immediate announcement and downed
tools. After five days and under threats
of prosecution —for what such threats
are worth —they went back to work on
Monday on an undertaking by Mr. Gal-
lagher that his decision would be an-
nounced tomorrow. There is nothing to
show that it would not have been given
then anyway.
Advertisement from the “Tribune,”
official organ of the Communist party
of Australia':-!
WANTED urgently by M.P., small
flatette or bed-sitting room, with use of
conveniences. Reply V.P., Tribune.
He might even be glad to have a seat to
call his own by the end of the year.
Very belatedly and warily Mr. Chifley
has said a kind word for the Atlantic
Pact, but kept his hands the while care-
fully tucked behind his back. He made
no offer or promise of active support.
Dr. Evatt has not even his blessing to
give. That foghorn chairman of U.N.O.
preserved a silence on the subject which
smelt of dissolution and decay.
‘ln being refused the use of the Mel-
bourne Town Hall for the purposes of
a speech on his impressions of Soviet
Russia, John Rodgers, president of Aus-
tralia-Soviet House, and some of his
sponsors seem to have been hoist with
their own petard. Didn’t they try to per-
suade the Town Hall authorities to cancel
the date or break the contract with J. J.
Maloney, when he wanted to give a speech
on his impressions of Soviet Russia?
And, according to a private citizen, when
he applied to Mr. Rodgers for the use of
Australia-Soviet House “for a meeting to
point out to its officials how wrong they
were in their action against Mr.
Maloney,” Mr. Rodgers said he did not
think any good purpose would be served
by the address, and turned down the pro-
posal. Communist logicians can doubtless
explain this quite easily.
It came out of Washington last Friday
that a world wheat agreement for four
years had been reached, maximum price
for the period 11s. Id. a bushel, dropping
to a minimum of 7s, 6d. in the fourth
year. Not everybody had signed when
this was printed, but if they have since it
means that any unshipped wheat of the
25,000,000 bushels we —or rather Pollard,
M.H.R. —sold to India at 14s. Bd. will
have to go at 11s. Id. The Wheatgrowers’
Federation has emitted a few wounded
yelps and there’ll be more, particularly
from those who can see nothing wrong in
handing over the growers’ wheat to a
Federal Government, which hasn’t hesi-
tated to use it as a political commodity.
All Chifley’s mystery-making cannot
disguise the truth that the Attlee Govern-
ment sent the Socialist Lord Listowel to
talk to Canberra about grave deficiencies
in the condition of Australian defences in
face of a Lower Asia fast becoming Com-
munist. Every foreign Government in the
world —and all those of the British realm,
too —know that the Socialist Government
in Australia has no services that could
maintain defence of the country for half
an hour, and does not intend to follow
the only policy which would t produce an
army. Evatt and his echoes have an-
tagonised the Dutch, and Calwell, with
his silly persecution of individuals, is fast
making Australia hated throughout
southern Asia. The electors ought to
vote “Labor” out of office if on the one
ground only that under “Labor” Australia
will remain at the mercy of any attacker.
Last year, concerned with the slow
turn-round of ships at Queensland sugar
ports and the steady accumulation of
stored sugar, the Stevedoring Industry
Commission chairman and deputy-chair-
man toured the coast and appealed to
wharfies for co-operation. What the Aus-
tralian Sugar Producers’ Association
called “token improvements” in the rate
of work folio vVed. Results: Unshipped
sugar, 31/12/ ’47, 212,150 tons; at
3T/12/’4B, 267,416 tons. These figures
for N.Q. ports only. Some other figures:
Deadweight capacity of ships in Austra-
lian coastal trade, 1947, 669,000 tons; 1939,
475,000 tons. Tons lifted, 1947, 8,400,000
tons; 1939, 8,900,000 tons. During 1947-
48 tonnage of inter-State and overseas
goods passing through Australian ports
was 5 p.c. less than in 1937-38-39, though
number of wharflaborers increased try
30 p.c.
About the only thing that can be said
concerning this is that the S.I.C. is as
successful on the waterfront as the Joint
Coal Board is on the coalfields.
More signs of the “Golden Age”: On
view to suburban train-passengers by
the 0.01 mile signal-box at Central
Station, Sydney, a newly-painted sign
hung out to dry—“ This carriage reserved
for Drunks.”
“Labor” members profess a hearty con-
tempt for Legislative Councils elected on
a restricted franchise, yet when it was
announced last week that the Legislative
Council of Fiji had enacted that in certain
circumstances newspapers could be com-
pelled to publish matter as directed by the
Government several of them pounced on
the item with evident approval. Misin-
formation Minister Calwell seemed parti-
cularly delighted with the idea. Fiji’s
Council consists of the Governor and J 6
members, six of them elected, four
nominated and five —the native Fijians—
selected by the Governor from a panel
of names submitted by the chiefs.
Webster has “pamperize—to pamper,”
and declares it to be rare; it took Senator
Annabelle Rankin (Lib., Q.) to put
“pamperisation” into the language.
That’s what she said the “free-medicine”
bill was inflicting on the people, and, since
its meaning is obvious, it fits most of the
Chifley “social-benefits” schemes.
Sydney City Council, now run by
Labor, has encountered Canberra
“Labor’s” notions about property. The
council owns a corner-site long leased to
the Commonwealth, on which is a post-
office. The Commonwealth wants to buy
the site ; the council doesn’t want to sell.
So the Commonwealth says it “has no
alternative but to compulsorily acquire
the subject area.” This the council called
“insolent” and “high-handed” and it is
protesting to the P.M.G. Apparently
“Labor” aldermen aren’t enamored of the
Socialist way of doing things.
Crime and dishonesty are the results of
a bad economic system; any Socialist
will agree on that. Which makes it rather
difficult to understand the rising figures
for pillaging on the wharves. During the
1930’s when, to quote a prominent
“Labor” politician, “depression stalked
the land,” the average cost pf claims on
inter-State cargo was 6d, a ton. Last
year, after eight years of Socialist Gov-
ernment with high wages and full em-
ployment, the figure in respect of Mel-
bourne wharves was 2s. 2d.


THE SOCIALISTIC MARINER.
“The many men, so beautiful!
Almost as dead did lie:
And a thousand slimy Commo things
Lived on; and so did I."


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“B. A. Ker”; A couple of futile pulls
and I surrendered and bolted for the
next door—l’d had experience with doors
on electric-train carriages. But a die-
hard was still wrestling with the jammed
lever when the guard pressed his bell.
The persistent one swung in the next
doorway as the train passed him, then
resolutely marched down to the trouble-
some exit. With half the carriage grin-
ning, he finally exhausted himself and
retired. At the next station almost the
same thing happened: two of the do-or-
die type battled with the obstinate handle,
lost all chance of getting a seat, and
risked their lives boarding the moving
train. By now the whole carriage was
waiting with amusement for the next
stop. It proved just as entertaining; the
same optimistic approach by the many,
quick acceptance of defeat by the ma-
. jority, and refusal to acknowledge the
impossible by one or two. Stop after
stop produced the same comical perform-
ance, with just enough variation to retain
the interest. At the tenth station about
seven stone of flapper got the key posi-
tion in the milling crowd. She grabbed
the handle, gave a ridiculous, feminine
tug —and minced in through the open
door. And I suppose she thought it was
her hat or “new look” that made the
whole carriage look so stunned!
* * * *
“Territorian”: “Clooter” is right (B.
19/1 /’49) —outback youngsters know a bit
more than city folk realise. Ten years
ago a woman took her teen-age daughter
on a visit south, her first trip outside the
Northern Territory. On entering Sydney
Harbor a passenger said to the child
“The reporters, will be aboard the boat
soon. Won’t they be able to make a sob-
story out of you—a girl who has never
travelled in an electric-tram, or been on
an escalator, or up in a lift, and who is
seeing the Harbor Bridge for the first
time!” “Huh,” sniffed the youngster.
“What do they know? I bet they’ve never
been to a Greek wedding, or a Chinese
funeral, or a pookaminnie corroboree.
They’ve never been out fishing in a pearl-
ing-lugger or a blackfellow’s dugout;
they’ve never seen a ’gator, or a live emu
wandering through the bush. I just bet
they haven’t seen anything at all except
what other folks have made for them.
I’ll tell them they won’t know what it is
to be alive till they come up to the Terri-
tory.” Alas, the reporters concentrated
on the “important” passengers; not one
of them made his way to our part of the
ship where the real news awaited him.
m * * *
“El Verdugo’s” challenge:^
Now the famous tree which obscured the
Hyde Park Soldiers’ Memorial from the sight
of Sydney has been eaten by the Zoo
rhinoceroses and elephants, let me record a
precious memory of its elimination. The ling
chi death-by-the-thousand-cuts which was
committed upon it was memorable as an ex-
hibition of the New Order in being and occupied
a dignified couple of days and a bit. When I
arrived on the scene more than 30 hours after
the operation had begun, ten democrats, a
leisured decorum written on their countenances,
were engaged in its removal within a barricade
flanked by an intimidating display of mechan-
ised might. One of them was toiling at the
rate of about five strokes a minute and the
rest were watching him intently, presumably
to make sure that he did not speed up. In
Japan I hare seen four Japanese, each about
half the size of any “worker” engaged in the
Hyde Park extraction, and one of them a lady,
remove a vegetable considerably larger than
the rhinoceroses’ breakfast. They started after
lunch one day and next morning all that was
left was a raw gash in the earth with turnips
planted in it. Every scrap of wood had been
gathered and faggoted. The leaves had been
swept up with little b/ooms and put into the
soil as fertiliser. I am thinking of importing
a team of Japanese for competition with Aus-
tralian toilers. I shan’t be unfair to the locals.
To give them a chance I am willing to agree
to bring only old dames in the sere and
yellow—some of those who have been jostling
heavy sleepers on the Hiroshima railway, per-
haps—and allow our boys a handicap of a
sleep every couple of hours. Even then, looking
at some of the public-utility “work” being done
round Sydney, I have no doubt about the
result.
* « * »
“Uco”: A name familiar on the Aus-
tralian coast for over 30 years cropped
up in the cables recently when Earl
Baldwin, Governor of the Leeward
Islands, was called to London to explain
what he meant by saying something that
somebody at Westminster thought he
shouldn’t have said. He made the trip
in the once - crack passenger liner
Katoomba, sold a couple of years ago to
Greek owners. She is now running under
charter to the French Government, flies
the Panamanian flag, has a Greek skipper
and a crew of Greeks and Italians.
Katoomba was a transport and hospital
“Which box do I use for overseas mail?"
ship in World War I, and in the second
scrap she carried thousands of troops to
and from New Guinea. Had the new
Shipping Act been in force during the
1930’s she would have been pensioned
off as “aged” long before Hitler’s war
broke out.
* * * *
“Nickabit”: Tricking the slot-machines
(B, 16/3/’49)? I once sold “shilling-in-
the slot” electricity-meters to local
authorities. We claimed they were trick-
proof, as they automatically registered
what should be in the sealed till; if this
did not tally or if foreign discs were
found in kitty the Householder was
answerable. One town-clerk bawled me
out on the claim ; a Chinese householder
was regularly ss. light in a pound’s-worth
of electricity, even when a pre-tested
meter was installed on his premises. John
first played “No Savvee,” but for two quid
in cash and a promise not to prosecute
he came clean. His technique was in-
genious, his plant simple. In a cigarette-
tin of plaster-of-Paris he had pressed four
one-shilling imprints. These he filled with
water and popped into the refrigerator.
Prised out, the ice-discs worked the
oracle with the meter, melted and the
water evaporated.
♦ ♦ * ♦
“C. 8.”: Cables mentioned a revival
of the making of the old traditional
English drink honey-mead, the universal
tipple before small beer was invented.
Half a million bottles of the brew are
ready for export to dollar areas, and if
the stuff has anything like the kick of
the mead the village constable of Port
Wakefield (S.A.) used to lay down each
Christmas in preparation for the next
one there should be a considerable re-
duction in the ranks of metho-drinkers.
The port used to be the Mecca of yachts-
men from Port Adelaide because of a
pleasing local custom. On Christmas
Eve publicans and tradesmen would put
tables out in the street in front of their
premises laden with food of all descrip-
tions, beer, soft drinks and coffee, and
the townsfolk would stroll from one booth
to another, getting a bellyful or a skinful
or both, all free. The town’s policeman
remained discreetly in the background
ready to top off the jollifications with a
liberal distribution of his mead. One
glass was enough to lift the roof off
a cathedral. At four in the morning he
donned his uniform and did his rounds,
running any surviving celebrators into
the lock-up in the interests of law and
order.
* ♦ * *
“Nunk”; Dr. Silbermann’s book. Of
Musical Things (R.P. 16/3/’49), is an-
other sign of the cultural battle which is
being fought intermittently between Eng-
land and America on Australian soil.
Dr. Silbermann is a recent Australian
restaurant-proprietor, an LL.D. who
studied music at Cologne, wrote about it
in Holland and talked about it in Paris.
He is Australian correspondent for an
American music magazine, and his book
is published by a Sydney firm which
specialises in American books. Probably
it is only a coincidence that these lec-
tures to Sydney Conservatorium students
—sponsored by Eugene Goossens, not un-
influenced by America —and taking Mr.
Neville Cardus to task in the language
of Broadway’s vaudeville entrepreneurs
should appear pat with the announce-
ment that Mr. Cardus is to succeed
Ernest- Newman as music critic of the
London “Sunday Times.” Quick to
appreciate the challenge, Mr. Cardus
advanced in the “Sunday Herald,” an-
swering Dr. Silbermann’s battle-cry, “It
stinks! It’s lousy!” with the bodeful
British murmur, “It’s not done, old boy ;
it isn’t cricket!” The situation is still
delicate, and at any time Dr. Silbermann
and Mr. Cardus may come to words;
and if the contest develops from a duel
into a battle, scholarships to London and
New York musical academies may be
expected to fly like arrows at Agincourt.
* * * *
“Bo”: Australia’s Flying Pieman,
whose present self-appointed mission is
to rush around the world prayerfully
bowing before statues and humbly assur-
ing Oriental potentates that he and his
wonder-workers at Canberra really mean
no harm in what they say, must inevit-
ably cast up in Moscow, there to make
obeisance before the tomb of Lenin and
assure Stalin that his “Government” will
continue to allow the Red Fiihrer’s Aus-
tralian fifth-column an open go in their
treasonable activities. But the point is,
will Bert be able to recognise in the
boyish face, on which no virgin hair has
yet sprouted, and in the stripling figure
the Soviet’s 69-year-old dictator? For
it is certain that the next time Joe enjoys
another bout of bad health, or shows
signs of getting rickety in the joints, the
Presidium will get him to go, not to salu-
brious Yalta for revival, but to the lake
hidden in the Ural Mountains which
Russian doctors have recently discovered
is a “fountain of youth.” The revitalising
and rejuvenating’properties of these mar-
vellous waters are, it seems, caused by
“animal organisms that have been de-
posited and decayed in its mud for cen-
turies.” It is now clear why all work
on the search for the elixir of life and the
philosopher’s stone by famous Soviet
scientists was recently suspended.
* * * ♦
“Eureka”; There is a move to have
a memorial erected to William Hart,
native of Parramatta and holder of Aus-
tralia’s No. 1 pilot’s licence. This recalls
the fact that there are quite a number of
memorials in this country to the memory
of Australian aviators, some of them in
the most unexpected places. Both Kings-
ford Smith and Hinkler are honored in
Katoomba, on the Blue Mountains,
though neither man had much to do with
that city Katoomba’s Hinkler Park is
a fine playground for children, while
Kingsford Smith Park is a once-ugly
gully converted into a beautiful terraced
park with a music-shell in the bottom
and a memorial at the top, the latter
bearing a model of the Southern Cross,
A large granite cross at George’s Heights,
overlooking Sydney Heads, marks the
grave of Keith Anderson, who, with
Bobby Hitchcock, perished in Central
Australia while searching for the South-
ern Cross. A tablet at Darwin‘marks the
spot where Ross and Keith Smith landed
on their first flight from England. A
tablet has been placed on the home of
Lawrence Hargrave at Point Piper, and
another can be seen on the hill overlook-
ing Stanwell Park, where he carried out
many of his experiments.
* * ♦ «
“Old Carpenter”; Like others of my
generation, I maintain that the beer of
today is hogwash compared with the
swills of my youth,’ But even in those
days some brews were better than others.
The most potent pints I ever enveloped
were donated by Lord Hopetoun at
Government House, Sutton Forest, on
the completion of some additions to the
vice-regal residence. Seated in the cellar,
we were regaled with McEwen’s Old Ale,
served in silver-mounted bullocfc-homs.
Everything was jake until we climbed
into the open air ; then Old Ale took full
toll, and every wood-butcher in the gang
became a cot-case. His Lordship was a
thorough sport. Noting our frailty, he
had us driven to our lodgings. More than
that, anticipating the next day’s hang-
over, he sent along a five-gallon keg of
the hair of the. dog.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: The announcement that
the Shakspeare Memorial Company of
Stratford-on-Avon is planning a tour
of Australia next year will surprise those
people who imagined we already had them
here in the McMaster Company at
present doing the Bard, among others, at
the Princess, Melbourne, As a matter
of fact, McMaster never billed himself
as belonging to that august organisation;
he merely stated that his “famous com-
pany” had been selected from Stratford-
on-Avon —which was true enough, as most
of them had played there —but a lot of
people, including critics, jumped to that
conclusion. The projected tour will be
the first time a company from the
Memorial Theatre has come this way.
* * * #
“Jasby”: The spelling-reform en-
thusiasts are at it again, this time in the
House of Commons, where Dr. Mont
Follick —or should it be Folik?—intro-
duced a private bill on the subject. The
chief argument advanced by reformers is
that too much time is wasted through the
admittedly illogical orthography of the
English tongue, first in learning it at
school and secondly in the continual need
for checking it in after-life. In both cases
,1 consider the claim exaggerated. Dr.
Folik told the Commons “We are a laugh-
ing-stock abroad because we have spell-
ing-bees, Foreigners say ‘You don’t know
how to spell your own language’.” Why
should this worry us? Prendimen do not
get hot under the collar because we think
it amusing that they eke out their spoken
language with gesticulation. The primary
purpose of a language is to serve the
needs of those to whom it is a mother-
tongue, ' Despite its manifold anomalies
English-as-she-is-writ has performed that
task competently. A brief consideration
of the achievements of the English-speak-
ing world since the time of Caxton should
be proof of that.
m * * *
“Wagga Wagga”: Recently while holi-
daying at Wagga I wrote to a friend in
Canada, and last week received an an-
swering letter. He writes: “It’s a strange
name, Wagga Wagga, and quite foreign
to Canada. Your mention of it reminds
me of my boyhood days in North Van-
couver. When we moved to our new
home there was an old mansion in the
course of demolition near by. It was
named Wagga Wagga. It soon disap-
peared, but the gates remained for some
years, large double gates with a Wagga
on each. They were very old, but the
name still showed clearly.” I wonder
what was the story behind the old home
in North Vancouver?
* * * *
“Zake”: Sunday morning on tne
verandah of the golf clubhouse, and as
they awaited their turn to hit off
members swung from chiacking each
other to topical subjects. The sight of.a
parson passing the road on his
way to service brought up the question ot
the clerical “dog collar,” which had been
the subject of a recent attack by a
London vicar, who had described it as
“unbecoming” \and a subject for ridicule
and humor second only to the mother-in-
law theme. General opinion was that the
collar was an unhealthy anachronism.
Someone pointed out that some non-
conformist pastors got along very well
with a soft white collar and black tie.
Then one of the visitors spoke up. With
deep earnestness, even with some emotion,
he contended that the abolition of the
rounded collar would be detrimental to
the Cloth; that it must detract from the
dignity and prestige of the church; an
that it lent a distinction which no othe
symbol could replace. As he and
partner strolled across to the first tee
someone suggested he must have a d
relation in the church. It wasnt that,
he owned a laundry.
DOROTHY DIX QUESTIONS.
“Questions .addressed to Ministers by back-bench
supporters to give the former a chance of making
smart prearranged replies are becoming increasingly
frequent at Canberra. They are known as ‘Dorothy
Dix’ questions.”
A singularly apt delineation,
A happy phrase, it has to be confessed,
For questions not in quest of information
But merely to provide the chap addressed
With what appears an ample vindication
For promptly getting something off his chest
Which otherwise he couldn’t find a way,
Much as he fancied saying'it, to say.
What you might call a Parliamentary fiction,
Thesg counterfeit inquiries, I suppose,
Modelled upon the Dorothcan Diction,
The formula that everybody knows.
Still, they are fast becoming an infliction;
And Hansard should have better things than
those
To place on record in such devious ways
Of handing Ministerial heads bouquets.
“Ask me,” a Minister can say, selecting
Some acquiescent stooge behind the scenes,
“If I have read some article reflecting
On me, and what do I suppose it means.
Rely on it I won’t be found neglecting
The chance of giving the aggressor beans,
And getting into print before I’m through
A bit of useful propaganda, too.”
So goes the game, the bogus question suited
To meet the answer craftily supplied,
Some charge to be determinedly disputed
Before it goes too far or spreads too wide,
Whether or not convincingly refuted
At least to be reported as denied,
The method borrowed for our politics
From Dorothy, whose other name is Dix.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Clooter”; I see that one Dr. Walther
Riedel, one of the heads of the Nazi
rocket plant at Peenemunde, which the
R-A.F. hit with everything but the kitchen
sink when its purpose was discovered,
reckons that flight from earth to one or
more of the planets is “inevitable.” The
professor was picked up by the Yanks
when they invaded Germany in 1945 and
taken to America, and there invited to get
on with more rocket work. He forecasts
a man-made satellite circling the earth
within 10 years, and possibly space-travel
within 25 years. I am naturally
astounded at the inventiveness and
progress of man. But what boots it if I
can fly to Saturn and can’t buy a beer in
my suburban pub on Saturday? Of
what use bringing home fish from Venus
if there is no gas to cook it? And what
will happen to interplanetary travel if
somebody like the N.S.W. Premier gets
hold of it and keeps on bumping up the
fares?
* * * «
“Easter”: A new sin has been alleged
against the Sydney powerhouse, Bun-
nerong, which was conceived in an atmos-
phere of trouble and has never been out
of it. Its name has become synonymous
with blackout, and long-suffering victims
of its capriciousness have passed from
rage to sardonic humor. Now, according
to a protesting Bumble, the smell of its
smoke awakens sleepers in his suburb.
Whether he wanted the Government to
issue gasmasks, or whether it was the
unusual occurrence of the Bunnerong
stacks actually smoking that awoke them,
isn’t clear —personally, I believe the kind
of coal they burn there is capable of
anything except keeping up a continuous
supply of power and light.
* * * *
“Young Slim”: Readers of “Ek Dum’s”
remarks on the comparison of sea and
air efforts in the Pacific war (B,
12/1/’49) would appreciate his argu-
ments better had they seen the fleets
anchored at Manus during the drive
northward. They were set out in blocks,
each type of ship squared off into its
own section, with well-defined “streets”
between each square. Incoming ships
were met by patrol-boats which con-
ducted them to their anchorages, defined
on the charts as circles which provided
for a definite length of cable. I cannot
remember a single instance of ships col-
liding as they swung round their picks.
From the air this anchorage looked like
a huge city, with its business centre of
aircraft-carriers going down through
battlers and cruisers to suburbs of de-
stroyers and smaller escort-craft. There
was even provision for a “landing”-strip
for seaplanes. When this single scene is
duplicated, sometimes on a lesser scale,
in every decent-sized harbor of the South-
west Pacific it will be realised that despite
the stupendous development of airstrips
such as the Americans built at Moresby
and later Biak, sea-power, including as it
did carrier-borne aircraft, was the major
factor in the Pacific victory.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
“Ex-C.G.”: I first saw that copy of the
Famese Hercules in Adelaide’s Victoria-
square (B. 16/3/’49) in 1920. It was my
second day in what we heathen Mel-
burnians called “the holy city,” and the
statue stopped me dead in my stride be-
cause I had not expected to see, in a
public place, a graven representation of
the male form in the altogether. There
was .no sign of any figleaf, nor did
it seem that the statue had ever possessed
one. Perhaps it was stuck on later.
♦ * * *
“Wusslean”: Attempts by Melbourne
City Fathers to have Melbourne selected
as the venue for the 1956 Olympic Games
are being watched by amateur sportsmen
with wry amusement. Hundreds of
pounds have been spent on the production
of a book setting out the city’s claims
and thousands are to be spent on sending
delegates to a meeting of the Olympic
committee. Plarri for the expenditure
of a couple of million on arenas, accom-
modation and other facilities are being
optimistically discussed. Just whose
money is being lavished in anticipation
is not quite clear, but anyone new to
“Awfully warm, Mrs. Suffretm-Catts. Do take off your things!"
Melbourne ways might be pardoned for
arriving at the conclusion that the Queen
City is a wonderful place for amateur
sport. Actually, civic support for amateur
games of any kind is incredibly poor,
Melbourne boasts a single pool approach-
ing Olympic standards, and the swimmers
are by far the most fortunate so far as
civic facilities are concerned. A little
more practical support in the past would
convince Melbourne sportsmen, more than
the present trumpetings, that the coun-
cillors and others who are clamoring
for the Games to be held here have the
interests of true sport at heart.
* * * *
“X.S.”; Russell-street (Melb.) wireless
patrol gets some queer rescue-calls from
beleaguered females, but the queerest yet
was an urgent hail from a woman who
had locked herself in her bedroom in a
seaside suburb because she had seen a
man’s hat lying on the back verandah
and the owner might be a prowler. The
police-car was out in a few minutes and
found the hat all right, but it happened
to be her hubby’s, blown off a hook
in the verandah.
* * * *
“Hamer”: When this nom de plume
of mine (B. 16/3/’49) was first adopted
(from two initials and half a surname)
I thought I had coined something really
original. Actually “Hamer” is quite a
common surname, and I soon began to
meet members of the clan. As an actor
with the Julius Knight company, I met
Miss Florence Hamer, brought out to be
“second woman” to Maud Jeffries. At
that time a number of racy literary items
of mine, including a series of “drunk
“Keep it to yourself, mind."
paragraphs,” were having a run, and
Florence told me that she was tickled
pink when friends accused her of being
the author. A couple of years later,
when I was battling to get the Clerks’
Union established, Harold Hamer called
to see me—“ Harold,” incidentally, is
what my “H” stands for. A clerk in a
firm with a reputation for sweating, he
told me that he was under suspicion of
his employers ; and he asked me to use
some other pen-name for articles on the
sweating of clerks. A Hamer who com-
mitted suicide had some verses of mine,
cut from The Bulletin, in his pocket-
book f police who were trying to discover
relatives of the dead man called to see
me about it. Then I met whilst alco-
holidaying in London on leave from
France in the Kaiser’s war a man who
undoubtedly was a Hamer ; he showed
me his paybook. “If you read The
Bulletin you will have seen some of my
stuff,” he told me; and proceeded to
show cuttings of some of my contribu-
tions. Cecil Hartt and Teddy Colles
were my pals, and we had quite a good
time letting the skiter perjure himself
without contradiction,
* * * *
“H.B.That Tarnagulla (B. 16/3/’49)
factory that was a bank reminds me of
Hamley Bridge (S.A.) bank that be-
came part of a pub. On the opposite
corner, it was taken over by the pub and
turned into bedrooms. But the bank s
bars remained on the windows, and Scotty
and I, having celebrated overwell, were
given bunks therein. In the morn Scotty
awoke, saw the bars on the window,
philosophically remarked “In again,” and
went back to sleep,
*,*„ * „ * .
Wmdowshopper : Displayed in a
Sydney window is the newest offer of the
hungry Britons to the rugged Australian
setter, m exchange for his meat and
eat ~ a matching wardrobe, topcoat,
double-breasted suit and sports-coat all
of cl °f- Suit £3l 8s 6d ; top-
coat, £33 14s. 9d.; sports-jacket, £22 75.;
total, £B7 10s. 3d. “Perhaps I could
manage one set,” drawled a pavement
spectator. “But two sets at £175 Os. 6d.
would be altogether too much ; and you’d
need two sets to relieve the monotony,
now, wouldn’t you?”
* * ♦ *
“T. McN ”: A note from Bavaria has
it that when a wedding reception was at
its height a guest rose up, announced him-
self as a bailiff and took possession of all
the gifts as well as the ’groom’s suit and
motor-bike, in order to satisfy a claim
for damages by a former fiancee. It
somehow reminded me of the bright
young blade who blew into our town, put
up at the best pub, spent money like water
and courted the daughter of a leading
light. He rushed the girl into a hurried
marriage, arrived at the church in a
spanking new car, wedded her and carried
her off. No, his cheques weren’t phoney,
nor the car stolen, and he’d have been
all right, perhaps, only he stopped to help
a broken-down motorist 40-odd miles
along the road—and in the stranded car
were his legal wife and her mother, on
their way to another State and believing
him to be in Ne\y Guinea on business.
* * * *
“Tarry Rope”: Tis a poor species of
seafarer who does not develop some sort
of a feeling for a boat in which he has
travelled ; but boats, like dogs and cats,
have a way of attracting affection even if
you have not travelled on them. I was
never on board the Bombo, yet, the old
tub having gone, the wide sea seems a
little lonelier to me. From my longshore
home I often watched her pass, wallowing
in even moderate seas; she always wal-
lowed, though she had the lines of a good
sea-boat. An ugly old tub, strictly
utilitarian, she became a friend of mine,
and the sight of her always made me
exclaim “Ah, here’s the old Bombo!”
Another boat for which I developed an
affection without travelling upon her was
the Zealandia; the news that she had
been sunk at Darwin gave me a spasm of
anti-Jap feeling similar to the anti-
German hate that developed when I
heard that the Ballarat, another old friend
of mine, had been sunk.
* « * *
“C.Q.”: Most people assume that the
bones of Phar Lap are located inside his
hide at the National Museum in Mel-
bourne. As a matter of fact, anybody who
wants to see them must take a trip to the
Dominion Museum, in windy Wellington
(N.Z.). When Jonas Brothers, of Mount
.Vernon (N.Y.), were given the sacred job
of immortalising the horse that won stakes
amounting to £66,738, the N.Z. institution
requested the skeleton, and Edwin Herbert
Gibson, just dead at 77, at Dunedin, and
for 36 years taxidermist at Otago
Museum, was asked to mount the famous
racehorse. It was regarded as his most
notable achievement. The American firm
prepared the base on which the skin was
stretched, and it was presented to the
National Gallery in Melbourne by the
owner, R. A. Telford, and trainer, D, J.
Davis. It remains in a perfect state of
preservation, and is easily the gallery’s
most popular attraction. The heart went
to the Institute of Anatomy at Canberra.
* * * *
“Sam”; Canoe-man Raven Hart (B.
9/3/.’49) isn’t the first visitor to class our
waitresses as the worst in the world. Dr.
Thomas Wood made some very outspoken
remarks about them in his Cobbers. He
pronounced them the frostiest and most
tyrannical in their attitude to those they
were supposed to serve of any of the call-
ing he had encountered. He predicted
humorously that if the parties involved
in any of Australia’s frequent industrial
disputes were obliged to discuss their
differences at a dining-table serviced by
typical Australian waitresses, they would
reach agreement in double-quick time.
* * ♦ *
“Gadfly”: To improve the entertain-
ment value of Parliamentary debates by
adopting the production methods of the
popular radio serials is a brilliant sug-
gestion (B. 2/3/’49), but although I
“chucked a chest” to see my own name
mentioned, I must say most emphatically
that your article did not name the one
radio worker in Australia capable of
producing a really adequate script for
that purpose. I know my colleagues will
agree with me when I say that by bitter
experience we have learned the futility
of providing actors and actresses with
material which is beyond their capacity,
first to assimilate, and then to broadcast.
Therefore the only logical choice for such
a script is Miss* Ruth Fenner, who con-
ducts the A.B.C. “Kindergarten” session.
• * * * *
“Nakh”: Probably the most extra-
ordinary acquisition of the National
Museum in Melbourne after Phar Lap is
the head of a Maori chief presented by
the Earl of Essex, who has settled as a
farmer in Victoria. An ancestor of the
earl killed its original possessor in a fight
with the Maoris in 1838 and sent it to
his relatives in England as convincing
evidence that life in the antipodes was
apt to be wild and woolly.
* * * »
“Rooster”: Jupiter Pluvius has had
plenty of publicity lately. On top of the
two Queensland cyclones came a week’s
deluge over the eastern half of the con-
tinent. So it was not with great surprise
that city folk read that 800 people were
marooned by floods in s.-w, Queensland,
500 more in n.-w. New South Wales, or
that Cooper’s Creek, normally a series of
waterholes, had become a river 40 miles
wide. But how the bush-dwellers must
have cackled over the rainstorm-
experience of a Melbourne girl! Setting
out for her job in the city, clad in her
Sunday best, and sporting a new rain-
coat bought only the day before, she
arrived at her suburban station to catch
the city-bound train. Down the subway
she went —into six feet of water! She
swam to the opposite side. Only the
raincoat withstood the ordeal. It was
home, a hot bath and a change for the
luckless swimmer.
NOT TREASONABLE.
“The Chifley Government stubbornly refuses to take
any action against the menace of Communism as a
whole in Australia.”
.Vhile some attack it as a noxious breed,
A species of Black Hand fraternity,
Our heads account it just a party creed,
A mere political philosophy.
A Lab., a Lib. or even a C.P.,
A chap may tag himself, whichever strikes
His fancy. Hence why shouldn’t he
Proclaim himself a Commo —if he likes?
In this free land who’d dare propose <a ban
On listening to astrologic chat.
Or posing as a vegetarian
Or rambling round the streets without a hat,
Or any other harmless freaks like that,
From reading poems to airing nudist views?
And here you’ve Chifley’s ruling, plain and
flat,
A chap can be a Commo —if he choose.
Tis true their leaders haven’t sought to hide
Their firm intention, voiced with emphasis,
Should war arrive to be on Russia’s side
And do whatever Moscow bids. But this,
You’ll note, is based on an hypothesis,
Fenced with a formidable “if it should.”
Meanwhile there’s nobody who needs to miss
The chance of being a Commo —if he would.
In this blest land where speech and thought
are free
And no one risks a term behind the spikes
For his political philosophy
(Euphonious phrase!) I think you’ll all agree
That anyone, including you and me,
Can dub himself a Commo —if he likes.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


The Greatest Show
of them all
ROYAL
EASTER SHOW
9th to 19th April, 1949
9 DAYS AND 7 NIGHTS
Don’t miss the big Ring attraction— Torchlight
Tattoo. 2500 troops in the Wheel of Empire —“lt
Will Always Revolve.” Sat. 9th, Tues. 12th,
Wed. 13th at 8.30 p.m.
SMOKERS
PIPE TOBACCOS THAT ARE
BLENDED TO GIVE
SATISFACTION TO ALL.
HOUSE! OF MURPHY. A blend of
the highest grade of leaf to give a
cool smoke of satisfaction that men
prefer. 22/- per lb. Posted.
A.A.A. HILXTOP. A blend of
Australian, American and African.
20/- per lb. Posted.
WINSTON READY RUBBED
CIGARETTE TOBACCO. Greatly
improved by better blending of
mature leaf. 24/- per lb. Posted.
Special Quotes to Retailers for lots SOlb.
weight or over.
Write tos Cash Order Dept.,
Hillman Trading Co.,
Commercial Road, Brisbane.
Postage paid on Oash with order.
Postage extra on 0.0. D. Orders,
#
Your choice It CINZANO
Vermouth, whether your taste is rof
tweet or dry. CINZANO Vermouth
gives Just that extra exhilarating tang
to the palate.
ŧ
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Dalgety and Co., Ltd.
f Dividends— To Re-
June, Profit.* Pref. Ord. Amount, serves. Reserves.
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
1941. .142,915 5 7 130,000 12,915 1,494,769
1942. .123,895 5 6 116,000 8,896 1,503,654
1943. .114,753 5 6 115,000 1,503,407
1944. .115,545 5 6 115,000 545 1,508,952
1945 t. 81,042 5 G 83,375 1,501,619
Exchange on special remittances,
£160,000 1,341,619
Net additions reserves, £286,562 .. 1,628,181
1946.. 92,576 5 8i 86,062 6,514 1,634,659
Unexplained reduction res., £90,385.. 1,544,310
1947. .161,825 5 9$ 92,125 69,700 1,614,010
Unexplained addition reserves, £918.. 1,614,928
1948. .221,267 5 9$ 92,125 129,142 1,744,070
* After deducting contributions to staff fund. + The
1945 and subsequent figures are shown after de-
ducting English income-tax on divs. The rate
of dividend shown is the gross rate.
This is the world’s premier woolbroking
house, and it does a very extensive
pastoral-finance, agency and merchan-
dising business as well. Headquarters are
in London, and the co. has strong and
growing connections in East Africa, but
most of the business, financed partly on
English debenture money, is done in Aus-
tralia and New Zealand, For the last 64
years the co. has never failed to either
register a profit or pay a div. Average
rate of distribution for the 15 years to
1930 was 14.5 p.c. Then slump knocked
the bottom out of prices and interest-rates
and sent the Australian and Dominion
currencies to a discount in. terms of
sterling, and for the 18 years to the close
of last accounts divs. averaged 6.5 p.c.
The slip in earnings in 1945 was due
mainly to an alteration in the method of
presenting the accounts. The marked im-
provement over the last couple of years
reflects the phenomenal rise in prices,
especially of wool, wheat and livestock,
as well as satisfactory seasonal conditions
over most of the co.’s territory and ex-
panding returns from its agency and mer-
chandising activities. The following table
shows what happened with wool:
t Australian ( —> —New Zealand
Bales. Amount. Bales. Amount.
’45-46.2,862,786 £58,508,930 1,022,124 £21,552,153
’46-47.2,955,972 92,601,206 934,730 28,136,014
’47-48.8,079,712'155,784,245 844,522 29,868,425
Last season the average price rose by
58.9 p.c. in Australia and by 39.2 p.c. in
N.Z. Including London sales, 600,561
bales (up 9389 bales) passed through the
co.’s hands.
Being prudent men, the directors con-
sider it “vital that provision is made in
prosperous years for contingencies which
may arise.” After making unspecified
provision for bad and doubtful debts,
allowing £122,565 (up £59,814) for de-
preciation, £585,000 (up £111,000) for
taxation and sending £25,000 (unchanged)
to the staff fund, net earnings were figured
£49,442 better at £211,267, That covered
the pref. div, (£13,750) and 13.1 p.c. on
ord. capital, as against 9.8, 5.1 and 4.2 p.c.
for the three preceding years. The div.
was kept at a nominal 9 p.c., which
English income-tax (9s. in the £) reduces
to 5.2 p.c. (stg.) in the hands of share-
holders. At current rate of exchange that
is worth 6.2 p.c. in Australian currency,
subject to adjustment in connection with
double taxation. For the same reasons
the pref, div. is worth only 2 % p.c. net
(stg.), or 3.4 p.c. Australian currency.
More was put by than was distributed,
visibly lifting free reserves to £1,744,070.
Balance-sheet figures further reflect the
effects of season and prices, as well as a
sound financial structure :
1946. 1947. 1948,
Paid capital* .. £2,000,000 £2,000,000 £2,000,000
Debentures .. 2,975,454 2,975,454 2,975,454
Current liabilities 2,270,095 3,527,528 5,951,140
Tax reserve .. 367,336 474,000 585,000
Provident fund .. 683,963 867,327 881,998
Freehold, etc. .. 1,462,222 1,465,445 1,560,807
Advances .. .. 8,616,933 8,047,601 2,530,625
Other debtors .. 1,609,382 1,692,902 2,185,921
Merchandise .. 601,231 876,999 1,833,883
Cash & Investments 2,694,024 4,431,747 6,583,446
‘lncludes £500,000 5 p.c, prefs.
The debentures, costing the co. an average
of 4.2 pc., are more than*earning their
keep. The growth of £2,423,612 in current
liabilities (partly amounts held in trust
or on deposit for clients) and of
£2,151,699 in cash and investments are
interrelated. The drop of £517,076 in ad-
vances reflects prosperous conditions in
the pastoral industry, and the growth in
other debtors’ balances (up £493,019) and
merchandise stocks (up £456,332) is the
result of livelier trading at higher prices.
The immediate outlook favors main-
tenance of a high level of earnings.
Appreciation of the N.Z, pound to par
with sterling has hit woolgrowers in the
Dominion, but it will result’ in book
gains to the benefit of the co.’s reserves.
In Australia recent widespread rains—
best within living memory in the interior
—have further brightened the pastoral
and agricultural outlook. The wool-
cheque for the eight months to end Feb.
amounted to £130,316,950, the average
price being a record 50.95 d. a pound, the
increase being £35,593,130 and 31.9 p.c.
respectively over figures for the cor-
responding period of the previous season.
How long wool prices will remain
around current levels is anybody’s guess.
There is no immediate indication of an
early collapse of demand, and the statis-
tical position of the staple continues to
strengthen, thanks to heavy reduction of
war - time stocks handled by J.O.
Marshall Aid promises to remain a prop
to European buying for another year or
more, and the appearance of Russia and
re-entry of Japan in the market are other
encouraging features. However,* there is
talk in responsible quarters of approach-
ing overexpansion of the textile industry
in Western Europe. Meanwhile, mount-
ing costs, high taxation and scarcity of
labor and materials threaten to compli-
cate the position.
When the books closed the £2,000,(XX)
of share capital was in 50,000 f,-p. £lO
5 p.c. cum. prefs. and 300,000 ords. of
£2O each paid to £5. The ords,, of which
about one-third are on the Australian
and N.Z. registers, were recently split into
£1 units paid to ss. each, the idea being to
broaden interest in the scrip, especially
among clients. In sympathy with the
overseas trend, the 55.-paid ords, recently
eased from 13s. 3d. to 11s, 3d, on Sydney
’Change, At the lower figure the return
is 2.7 p.c. on a 6.2 p.c. div, basis, subject
to tax adjustment. Cover is 10s. . lOd. in
net tangibles. The well-protected prefs.
seldom appear on the Australian market.
Overseas Corporation (Aust.), Ltd.
Consolidated Figures.
June, Loss. Dividends. Deficit.*
£ £
1947 .. 25,460 Nil 62,618
Deficits of outside interests
acquired, £1465 .. •.. 64,088
Net add’n intangibles, £8107.. 72,190
Profit, sale of assets, £10,684.. 61,506
Loss,
1948 267 Nil 61,778
* Including establishment expenses, etc.
With a repertoire ranging from the
maintenance of aircraft to the produc-
tion of doughnuts. Overseas Corporation
is taking rather a different shape from
that first blueprinted. When registered
as a proprietary three years ago, it had
only 12 shareholders —each being a
director, and a prominent figure in Vic-
torian commerce—and the co. was to be
purely advisory and detached in character,
acquiring rights to new technical develop-
ments overseas and passing them on to
local industry. Later it was felt that a
better approach in some cases would
be to promote small companies to
develop the imported ideas; these would
be subsidiaries of Overseas Corporation
until eventually sold or floated into public
concerns. For this more positive role
capital was needed, and the Corporation
itself converted to a public co. late in
1946. Four directors retired about that
time.
One Corporation-sponsored venture
has already gone through the full cycle
ending in profitable sale. A small,
specialised cotton-weaving mill trading as
John Bentley and Co., it was, sold late
last term for about £50,000 to the Vic-
torian Woollen Co. Pty., yielding a profit
of £10,684. The progress of other sub-
sidiaries has varied. So far little re-
turn has come from the tWo- aviation
cos. —one engaged in maintenance and
the other in wholesale supplies. On the
other hand, a strong market is develop-
ing for the Namco pressure-cookers
turned out by Specialised Engineering
Co. Pty.; this subsidiary makes other
domestic lines, besides a machine for the
automatic washing of glasses which hasn’t
caught on with hotels and milk-bars as
quickly as was hoped.
The Corporation’s latest interest —here
it shares ownership with the Doughnut
Corporation of U.S.A. —is the Downy-
flake Food Corporation, which has just
started supplying cafes and shops with
readymade mix for doughnuts. Last year
Downyflake contemplated becoming a
public co. by an issue of redeemable
prefs., but Overseas. Corporation pen-
suaded the American interests to post-
pone “that form of raising capital for the
time being,”
These excursions into manufacturing
have entailed an increase in Overseas
Corporation’s capital from a nominal
figure in 1946 to £450,000 last June
—when bank accommodation was
providing a further £132,340. Last year’s
share issue of £250,000 and the £34,009
extra overdraft were used to eliminate
outside holdings in the subsidiaries (not
including Downyflake), as well as to
finance big increases in stocks (£89,702)
and debtors (£104,258):
Consolidated Accounts.
1947. 1948.
Paid capital .. £200,000 £450,000
Excess of par over
cost of subsid.
shares .. .. 5,988 4,656
Outside interests in
subsidiaries .. 89,951
Overdraft .. 98,331 132,840
Creditors .. .. 109,661 101,143
£453,931 £688,139
ASSETS.
Freeholds .. 18,515 8,428
Plant, etc. .. 80,185 106,703
Stocks .. .. 161,318 251,020
Debtors .. .. 117,510 221,768
Cash ~ .. 7,847 33,791
Intangibles .. 41,497 44,469
P. and 1. deficit .. 27,109 21,960
£458,981 £688,189
After disposal of the weaving mill and
writing off £4974 for depreciation, fixed
assets stiff rose by £16,481, and further
expansion is under way this term.
For 1947-48 the board declared a net
profit of £6614, but that included the
£10,684 surplus picked up from the sale
of assets {less a debit of £3803 for in-
tangibles written off); as the “Wild Cat”
figures things, the net result was a loss
of £267 (after £5500 tax provision by the
weaving business). The board expects
much better results from all departments
this term.
Present quote of 225. for the £1 ords.
compares with 275. 6d. on their first
listing in April, 1947. On book-values
they have net tangible backing of 17s. 3d.
Westralian Farmers Co-operative, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1940.. 34,652 6 p.c. = 10,739 23,913 21,907
1941.. 41,353 5 „ „ 10,774 30,379 52,386
Milk rounds written off, £10,025 .. 42,261
1942.. 41,130 5 p.c. = 10,803 30,327 72,588
1943.. 18,212 4 „ „ 8,664 9,558 82,146
Rebate bonus, £6OOO .. ~ .. 76 146
1944.. 26,392 4 p.c. = 8,669 ) „
Rebate bonus, £5985 .. j 11,738 87,884
1945.. 29,156 4 p.c. = 8,707 ) „ 24a 101
Rebate bonus, £7200 13,249 101,133
Goodwill appears, £7145 .. .. 93,988
1946. 28,414 4J p.c. = 10,409 ) . g7g g 5 g 67
Rebate bonus, £16,026 ..) 1,9/9
1947.. 41,763 4J p.c. = 13,668 * fiBa o lf ,9 849
Rebate bonus, £21,213 6 > 882 102 > B * 9
1948.. 99,066 5 p.c. = 17,938 ) anR m
Rebate bonus, £39,222 41,906 144,755
*«After deducting goodwill (now £7745).
This is one of a network of strong co-
operative selling and merchandising or-
ganisations, here and overseas, which
have done good work for the farmer by
endeavoring to market his produce at
best price and low cost, and, on the same
principle, provide him with a wide range
of other essential services. Since war
ended the story has been one of strong
demand, fair-to-good seasons, scarcity
of labor and materials, and, of course,
rising prices. These easy trading con-
ditions, however, appear to be approach-
ing their peak, if they have not already
reached it. Still, there is nothing at the
moment to indicate an early and severe
collapse of prices, such as occurred in the
early 1930’5. Among other things, con-
tinuance of U.S. aid to Europe means
much so far as world prices for primary
and other products are concerned.
Last term there was a sharp rise of over
50 p.c. in the co.’s turnover, which reached
a record £6,900,590. All sections of the
business contributed to the improvement,
the merchandising, manufacturing and
service departments providing the major
part of income. Gross earnings (£499,842,
up £134,210) were 7.2 p.c. and exes.
(£430,452, up £106,377) 6.2 p.c. of turn-
over as against 8.1 p.c. and 7.2 p.c. respec-
tively in the previous year. It is plain
therefore that the growth in turnover
more than looked after rising costs. After
providing for depreciation (£25,158, up
£6981) and taxation (£22,195, up £5502),
the declared net result was £27,833
stronger at £69,390. Adding £29,274
dropped from somewhere into reserves
and a reduction of £402 in goodwill, the
year’s aggregate net result was £99,066
(up £57,590), or 28 p.c. on capital. The
div. was gently raised from 4\ p.c. to
5 p.c., and £39,220 (£21,707 of it in respect
of private shareholders) was handed out
in bonus rebates, which makes the 5 p.c.
worth a lot more to shareholders who are
also clients. Reserves benefited by
£41,908, lifting them £144,757 in excess
of goodwill (£7745).
The bigger volume of trading and
higher prices called for substantial outlay,
as the following comparison of balance-
sheet figures shows:
1943. 1946. 1947. 1948.
Paid capital,. £216,357 £219,072 £287,749 £352,704
Debentures .. 66,051 64,411 86,845 138,850
Sundry creditors 244,873 414,711 515,817 783,930
Tax provision 12,000 7,650 23,250 22,195
Other provisions* 35,356 50,218 54,985 63,029
Freeholds, etc. 134,628 184,992 191,992 230,044
Plant, etc. .. 55,861 67,115 82,230 108,606
Shares in other
cos. .. 32,546 33,770 60,932 86,261
Stocks , . 112,876 175,978 272,041 401,417
Debtors .. 212,398 336,936 452,517 667,571
Cash, etc. .. 91,661 62,938 11,783 11,666
* Includes provision for divs.
To meet a net growth of £433,568 in total
assets —largely on account of debtors’
balances (up £215,054) and stocks (up
£129,376)—£64,955 of fresh share capital
was gathered, £52,005 was added to the
debenture debt and £268,113 to the
amount coming to sundry creditors. In-
cluding provisions, there was nearly £2
of outside money at risk in the business
for every pound belonging to shareholders
when the books closed.
Though the present level of prices can-
not be expected to continue indefinitely,
money the world over appears to be per-
manently depreciated in terms of 1939
values. Combined with the growth in the
co.’s activities, the position calls for early
introduction of more permanent capital.
So Treasury approval has been sought
and given to issue 100,000 new £1 shares
at par, and to raise a further £lOO,OOO of
debenture money.
Consolidated Zinc Corp., Ltd.
To simplify group control, manage-
ment, policy integration, finance and
development, it has been decided to con-
solidate the expanding interests of Zinc
Corp. and its string of subsidiary and
associated cos. in the smelting and allied
industries. Consolidated Zinc Corp.,
Ltd,, has been formed for the purpose in
London, and is to have a nominal capital
of £20,000,000—4,500,000 4* p.c. cum.
prefs., 7,000,000 ords. and 8,500,000 un-
classified.
The new co. (C.Z.C.) is offering to ex-
change its own scrip (fully paid) .for all
the issued shares in Zinc Corp. Last-
mentioned holds a controlling interest in
B.H. Corp., Ltd,, Imperial Smelting
Corp., Ltd., Sulphide Corp., Ltd., and
Enterprise Power Co. Pty., and owns
50 p.c. of the issued capital in B.H. Asso-
ciated Smelters Pty., and 32 p.c. of that
in New B.H. Consolidated. The basis of
the offer of C.Z.C. for Z.C. scrip (open
until April 11 and subject to 90 p.c.


Rupture
[ Sufferers—try the new Roussel Free.
Enables you to do hard work with
comfort and security. Definitely
holds, a condition absolutely necessary
for improvement.
Recommended by doctors and thou-
sands of satisfied users. Satisfaction
guaranteed , no matter where you live,
rnpr Call or send stamp for
* A. ri Pi FREE details, self-measure-
ment form and U days’ free trial
offer. No obligation.
The Roussel Appliance Co.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
THE AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
Filter
Cylinder
GUTHRIDGE
PTY., LIMITED,
10-12 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institution throughout Australia
JACKSON $
OSIIUJVA3,
moo
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMB.OSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
Advertising creators and
COUNSELLORS I ! PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“IACKSUL.” BRISBANE
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
Missing Friends.
TO NORMAN ANTHONY HAINES for-
xnerly of Perth in the State of Western
Australia and of South Melbourne in the
State of Victoria but now of parts un-
known. —TAKE NOTICE that your wife
EILEEN JANE HAINES of Broadford in
the State of Victoria has instituted pro-
ceedings against you for divorce on the
grounds that you have without just cause
or excuse wilfully deserted her and without
any such cause or excuse left her con-
tinuously so deserted during three years
and upwards and that you have within
five years undergone frequent convictions
for crime or misdemeanour and have been
sentenced in the aggregate to imprison-
ment for three years and upwards and
left her habitually without means of sup-
port UNLESS you enter an appearance
in the Prothonotary’s office of the
Supreme Court of the State of Victoria
Law Courts William Street Melbourne in
the said State on or before the Thirteenth
ay of April 1949 and file an answer in
the said office on or before the Twenty-
sixth day of April 1949 the case may pro-
ceed in your absence and you may be
ordered to pay costs. —F. J. CORDER,
108 Queen Street, Melbourne, in the State
of Victoria, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
TO MICHAEL SHEPPERD formerly of
60 Westbury Street St. Kilda in the
State of Victoria but now of parts un-
known. —TAKE NOTICE that your wife
JANE SHEPPERD of 60 Westbury Street
St. Kilda in the State of Victoria Married
Woman has instituted proceedings afainst
you for Divorce on the grounds of deser-
tion during three years and upwards Un-
less you enter an appearance in the
Prothonotary’s Office Law Courts William
Street Melbourne in the said , State on or
before the 13th day of. April 1949 the
said suit willproceed in your absence and
a Decree Nisi for Dissolution of Marriage
may be granted If you intend to defend
this suit you must file an answer in the
said office on or before the 26th day of
April 1949.—E. L. VAIL & SON, 289
Flinders Lane, Melbourne, in the said
State, Solicitors for the Petitioner.
/THE
This responsibility
is yours
Your beneficiaries have every right to expect that your
estate will be handled with the utmost care. If your
judgment is faulty, imprudent administration can endanger
assets built up by your energy and foresight. However, it
is a simple matter to provide competent control: the
appointment of Burns Philp Trust Company as executor
or trustee ensures that your beneficiaries will be protected
at every turn.
A copy of "Hands That Never Leave the Wheel" will be
forwarded on request. Full details of the Company's many
services are given in this interesting booklet.
DIRECTORS:
James Burns Joseph Mitchell P. T. W. Black Eric Priestley Lee *
MANAGER: L. S. Parker SECRETARY: E. R. Overton, A.F.I.A.
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR • TRUSTEE • AGENT
Constituted by Special Act of the N.S.W. Parliament.
Head Office: 7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Tel.: BU 5901 Box 543. G.P.0., Sydney
BP2-49
THE “WILD CAT” MONTHLY.
A Review of Company Accounts and Mining Activities.
Price 2/- per Single Copy 22/6 a year post free.
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
Incorporated in England by Royal Charter 1835
BALANCE SHEET, OCTOBER 13, 1948
To be presented to the Proprietors at the Annual General Meeting to be held on
Thursday, 31st March, 1949.
LIABILITIES £
Capital Authorised and Issued—
-900,000 Shares of £5 each
fully paid 4,500,000
(There Is under the
Charter a reserve liability
of the Proprietors of £5
per Share).
Reserve Fund 2,500,000
Profit and Loss Account
Balance 328,681
= 7,328,681
Notes In Circulation 2,623
Currency Depreciation Pro-
vision and Reserve 2,000,000
Current Deposit, and other
Accounts Including Bills Pay-
able and Drafts in Transit,
reserves and provisions for
contingencies and taxation 92,971,743
Amount due to Subsidiary
Company 500
Dividend payable April 1, 1949,
less Income Tax 136,125
Acceptances for Customers,
as per contra 480,288
95,591,279
102,919,960
Contingent Liabilities—
Outstanding Credits, Guarantees and
other Engagements on behalf of Cus-
tomers, as per contra 5,995,425
NOTES.—
(1) Pull provision has been made for
Taxation in Australia, New Zeal-
land and the United Kingdom
on Profits to date.
(2) Assets and Liabilities in Austra-
lia and New Zealand are in-
cluded at the par rates of ex-
change. The Currency Depreci-
ation provisions cover the net
difference which would have
arisen had they been converted
at the rates ruling at the date
of the Balance Sheet, viz., Aus-
tralia £125 10s. to £lOO Sterling
and New Zealand £lOl to £lOO
Sterling. These Assets amount to
£ A 79,880,774 and £NZ21,317,352
and the Liabilities to
£ A 72,758,255 and £NZ17,681,722.
On behalf of the Court,
G. C. GIBBS, Chairman,
P. NESBITT, Director.
£108,915,385
ASSETS £
Specie, Bullion, Government
Notes and Bank Balances ..
Money at Call and Short Notice
Investments at or under Market
Values—
Quoted in Great Britain:
British Government Secu-
rities 1.749,778
Other Securities .. 213,095
Quoted outside Great Britain;
Australian and New Zea-
land Government Secu-
rities 3,913,294
Other Securities .. .. 144,140
Unquoted Investments .. ..
Tax Reserves Certificates .. ..
Special Account with Common-
wealth Bank of Australia
Bills Receivable and Remit-
tances in Transit
Advances to Customers (less
provision for Doubtful Debts)
and other Accounts
Liability of Customers for Ac-
ceptances, as per contra ..
£
11,676,277
250,000
1,962,873
4,057,434
758,129
151,875
24,641,000
7,730,504
50,268,610
480,288
101^76,990
Fixed Assets—
Bank Premises and Sites in
Australia, New Zealand and
London, at Cost, less
amounts written off .. .. 942,470
Shares in wholly owned Sub-
sidiary Company, at Cost 500
942,970
102,919,960
(The Subsidiary Company
has not traded at any time
and has made neither profit
nor loss. Its only asset is a
deposit of £5OO with this
Bank).
Liability of Customers and
others on outstanding Credits,
Guarantees and other En-
gagements, as per contra .. 6,996,425
G. C. COWAN, Manager.
A. H. BULLOCK, Accountant.
AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE PROPRIETORS
We have obtained all the information and explanations which, to the best of our knowledge and
belief, were necessary for the purposes of our audit. In our opinion, proper books of account have
been kept so far as appears from our examination of those books. We have not visited the Branches
in Australia and New Zealand, but proper returns adequate for the purposes of our audit have been
received therefrom. We have examined the above Balance Sheet and annexed Profit and Loss Account
which are in agreement with the books of account and returns. In our opinion and to the best of
our information and according to the explanations given to us the said accounts including the particulars
concerning the Subsidiary Company give, in the manner required, the information required of a
banking company by the Companies Act, 1948; as authorised thereby the accounts do not show the
aggregate amount of reserves, the movement thereon and the market value of investments. On this
basis in our opinion the Balance Sheet gives a true and fair view of the state of the affairs of the
Bank and its subsidiary company as at 13th October, 1948, and the Profit and Loss Account gives a
true and fair view of the profit for the period from the 16th October, 1947, to the 13th October, 1948.
LONDON, 2nd March, 1949. DELOITTE, PLBNDER, GRIFFITHS & CO., Auditors.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT, from October 16, 1947,
to October 13, 1948
(Expressed in Sterling—conversions have been made at average rates for the year).
£
To Interim Dividend paid October 1,
1948, at the rate of 3Vi per cent, actual
less Income Tax at 9s. in the £ 86,625
„ Pinal Dividend payable April 1,
1949, at the rate of bVa per cent,
actual less Income Tax at 9s. in the
£ 136,125
„ Balance carried forward per Bal-
ance Sheet 328,681
(The liability of the members is limited)
By Profit for the period after
payment of all expenses (ex-
cluding Directors’ fees), pro-
viding for taxation on profits
, earned to date and making
transfers to reserves and
provisions for contingencies,
out of which accounts pro-
vision has been made for
any diminution in value of
assets 283.447
Less Directors’ Pees .. .. 12,414
„ Balance brought forward
from October, 1947
The Currency Provisions re-
leased as a result of the
alteration in the New Zea-
land exchange rate have been
transferred to either Reserve
fof Contingencies or Cur-
rency Depreciation Reserve.
£
271,033
280,398
acceptance) is 145 £1 41 p.c.
prefs. for 100 £1 51 p.c, prefs.,
120 £1 4i p.c. prefs. for 100 £1
51 p.c. redeemable prefs., 400 £1
ords. for 100 £1 ords., and 400
£1 ords. for 100 10s. ords.
After that C.Z.C. proposes to
offer publicly for cash a further
2,500,000 £1 4} p.c. cum. prefs.
to meet financial requirements of
the group—these include (1)
recent purchase by B.H. Corp.
of all the shares in Sulphide
Corp., (2) subscription to new
share issue made by New B.H.
Consolidated, (3) purchase of
additional equipment by Enter-
prise Power for supply of more
current and compressed air at
the Barrier, and (4) funds needed
for expansion of various enter-
prises in which the group is
already interested. Preference
in allotment of this issue is to
be given to members of the Z.C.
group.
Finally, holders of the
£1,000,000 of 4\ p.c. redeemable
cum. prefs. in B.H. Corp. are to
be asked to exchange their scrip
for an equal amount of C.Z.C.
4 jr per cents.
All this will raise C.Z.C.’s
issued capital to £11,024,573 —
4,476,626 4\ p.c. cum. prefs. and
6,547,947 ords.—which “will
bear closer relationship to the
real value of the undertaking
than does the present capital of
Z.C.,” says chairman J. R.
Govett. Composition of the
group will then be as follows:
Cap. Held
Member Co. by C.Z.C.
Zinc Corp. .. .. .. 100 p.c.
Imperial Smelting Corp. .. 100 „
Sulphide Corp. . . .. 100 „
New B.H. Consolidated .. 32 „
B.H. Corporation . . .. 100 ~
Enterprise Power .. .. 100 ~
B. Associated Smelters . . 50 „
Western Electric Power .. 32 „
The four first-mentioned cos.
are incorporated in Britain and
the rest in Australia.
On the basis of face-value,
Z.C.’s irredeemable prefs. will
get 295. per £1 unit transferred,
and their gross income (130 s.
6d. p.c.) will increase by 20s. 6d.
p.c. The redeemables will re-
ceive 245. per £1 unit transferred,
but will suffer a reduction of 2s.
p.c. in gross income (108 s. p.c.).
The ords, will still own the
equity in the business, and, the
board says, profits available for
C. after payment of pref.
div., will be almost identical with
those that would have been
available in Z.C.
Consolidated net earnings of
the group for 1948 are put at
£2,864,930 by Spicer and Pegler,
the London accountants. That
was after allowing for deprecia-
tion, British taxation and direc-
tors’ fees, etc., but includes
£511,214 arising from “excep-
tional appreciation of metal
values in relation to ores pur-
chased in .previous years.” The
£2,864,930 covered C.Z.C.’s full
pref, requirements (£201,448)
and 40.6 p.c. on the £6,547,947
of ord. capital. Average net
earnings of the group over the
last 10 years was £799,531, which
covered pref. requirements and
9.1 p.c. on ord. capital. The
joint plan of Z.C. and N.B.H.C.
to step up ore production and
treatment at the Barrier, and the
proposed expansion of smelting
and other activities of the group,
augur well for future earnings,
the level of which will largely
depend upon the course of metal
prices and costs.
Z.C. will pay its own pref.
divs. to June 30, 1949, and a fur-
ther 7s, 6d., making a total of
10s. a share, to the ords. for year
to end 1948. The 10s. a share is
equal to 12j p.c. on C.Z.C.’s ord.
capital.
The directorates of the
group are interlocking. On
C.Z.C.’s board are W. S. Robin-
son (president), J. R. Govett
(chairman). Sir C. L. Baillieu, F.
R. Crew, A. H. Moreing, D. P.
C. Neave and L. B. Robinson.
Directors’ fees and share of
profits are similar to the ar-
rangement in Zinc Corp.
In London the price of Z.C.’s
ords. eased from 1265. 3d. Feb.
15 to 110 s. March 15, owing
mainly to fear of a drop in the
price of lead —American Smelt-
ing and Refining cut its selling
price of the metal by cents
a pound over the last couple of
weeks, reducing the figure to
18 cents a pound as against 21}
cents at end 1948. One U.S.
cent is equivalent to approx. £6
19s. a ton in Australian cur-
rency. There has been no
change in the London price of
lead (now £l23stg. a ton) since
January. In Australia Z.C.’s
ords. are now priced at £7 or
thereabouts, the prefs. at 345.
and redeemable prefs. at 295. 6d.
Authority to prospect two
areas of beach sands on the
Queensland coast has been
granted to A. G. Darling,
a member of Mineral De-
posits Syndicate, which is suc-
cessfully treating beach sands at
Southport. The first area ex-
tends along the foreshore of
Fraser Island, from Sandy Cape
to Hook Point, and the second
from Inskip Point, opposite
Fraser Island, to Point Perry. At
least £2OOO is to be spent on test-
ing each area during the first
year. To date over £BOO,OOO-
- of rutile, zircon, ilmenite
and monazite has been won
from sands between Southport
and the N. S. Wales border.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Lower Tops’!”: Land-birds at sea
seem to imagine the masts and spars of
sailing-boats are parts of trees, and it
gets them into strife. In a fresh off-shore
breeze near Cape Schanck (Vic.) a wren
of some kind kept coming up to leeward
in an endeavor to land on the cross-trees,
but each time it came abreast of the
after-leach of the mainsail the back-
draught hurled the bird downwind, more
often than not into the water. For some
time the little fellow repeated these capers
until we ran the vessel off and he dropped
on deck. Although the landlubber had
been well doused, its feathers remained
unruffled. It also succeeded in taking, off
from a choppy sea, while holding its
wings half spread out, just as though it
were on land.
« * * *
“Wippegong”: The swamp is full.
Waterlilies crowd to the margins, leaving
clear water farther out, as though co-
operating for the protection of the water-
fowl feeding there. Where rushes rise
over the lilies, the harsh squawk of a
swamp-hen raises the alarm as you
approach, until the red-headed, purple
body lurches up and is born away on
black wings, lanky legs trailing, to flop
down farther off and resume its ridiculous
tail-flicking strut. From deep in the
rushes comes the timid “P’peet—peet” of
the grass-bird ; a shy, drab fowl about the
size and hue of a hen sparrow, but with a
longer tail. Its note L easily imitated, and
that way you can draw it gently to the
outer reeds, but no farther. A swag-
gering call from the same direction tells
that the reed-warblers are still with us,
though their passionate chatter of the
spring has now subsided into the char-
acteristic “Georgie Georgie” and a few
of the secondary notes. A furtive, mottled
shadow scampers across the lilies and is
lost, till the flick of a tiny tail gives the
little crake away; but take your eyes off
him and he’s gone. Out in the clear water
coot and moorhen mix with black duck
and teal, and, slightly apart, a small flock
of “hardheads” —white-eyed duck if you
prefer it —are feeding, mostly tails-to-
heaven, their dark brown in harmony
with the green and bronze leaves of the
lilies there. None of these take any notice
of the shadows from bigger wings that
flash over now and then, and, as though
symbolic of the peace and security there,
a little island out in the deep bears a
living emblem: three purple swamp hens
in statuesque pose, surmounted by a
snowy egret poised on a branch just
above. The butter-yellow of the lily
blossoms is all the richer for their verdant
background, and the song of the water
going over the weir is the only music
needed. Location? Beside a tramline in
a Sydney industrial suburb; the flashing
shadows are from the planes leaving
Mascot.
* % * * *
“E.”: Scraggs called in and found Dad
Simpkins nailing boards on his chook-
house, “It’s about them eggs we been
gettin’ off you lately,” he announced.
“Twenty-four dozen there was, an’ the
missus said t’ fix up with y’. What y’
reckon they’re worth?” “Aw, I dunno,”
Dad reflected. “I know the store’s givin’
three bob a dozen jus’ now.” “ Three
bob! Gripes, break it down. Dad! I
don’t reckon any eggs c’d be worth that
much. Not sellin’ ’em to anyone y’ know,
anyway.” “No; well, er . . . old Charlie
over ’ere’s been lettin’ the station have
some f’r two-’n’-nine.” “Yair, but that’s
different,” Scraggs protested hotly.
“Charlie ain’t particular friends with the
station-folk. Not like you ’n’ us. An’,
besides, we preserved most o’ them eggs
we got. Two-’n’-nine’s ridiculous. 1
never reckon preserved eggs is worth
more’n a bob a dozen, meself.*’ Dad
moved his arm in a sweeping gesture. “I
ain’t worryin’ about the money, Scraggs,”
he announced. “You ’n’ me is neighbors.
I’ll give ’em to y’ for nothin’.” “No, y’
won’t. Dad,” declared the other. “I ain’t
come down to acceptin’ charity from
nobody. I’m just as well off as you are —
better, maybe ; an’ can easy afford t’ pay.
No, I’m goin’ to give y’ the full bob a
dozen for the lot, Dad, then I’ll feel I
ain’t under no obligation to nobody.”
♦ * * *
“Beau Forte”: Joe got the contract
for putting down a 100 ft. well on Balla-
walla station. “I put in for seven-and-
six a foot,” he told me. “A pretty good
price, seeing I should be able to sink
seven or eight feet a day.” “But you’ll
most likely strike some pretty tight
digging, and, besides, you’ll have to pay
a windlass man to pull the dirt for you,”
I answered. “Pull the dirt!” Joe said.
“There’ll be none to pull. You see, I’m
timbering the well and I’ll be able to stow
all the dirt in behind the slabs.”
♦ * * *
“Solitude”: Seeing the boss of the
new model-farm nearing his yards with
a bunch of jumbucks, Seventyfiver turned
through the gateway. He noted the dog
travelling in front of the sheep, holding
the lead, watched the kelpies working one
on either side, and took in the lone
worker at the rear. As the tail began
to string out in a couple of places,
Seventyfiver turned to the boss. “This
dog’s overworked,” he pointed out.
“Why don’t y’ call one o’ them
others back t’ help him?” “They
wouldn’t work anywhere else,” the
boss explained. “The flank is their
job. Just the same as the lead
"What d'you take me for —a hamburger ?”
dog wouldn’t go anywhere but in front.”
Seventyfiver eyed the team quizzically.
“What’d they do if a rabbit got up?”
“Nothing. There’s my two runners at
the kennels there,” said the model-farmer.
“That little red chap further down is the
hunter. Or, if it’s wombats I’m after, I
take that white dog on the end.” Pre-
sently a furious barking sounded from
down near the house. “That’s Bruno,”
the boss explained, shutting the gate on
the yarded sheep. “He’s the watchdog.
Only one that’s allowed to bark when
anybody comes near the place. Now
I’ll show you around.” Seventyfiver
edged towards the road, “Aw, I won’t
wait, if y’ don’t mind,” he said. “Can’t
afford to. Cripes, I got t’ get Blue out
o’ this afore any o’ your mob gives ’im
ideas about bein’ ol’-fashioned.”
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”; I had never
known a bluetongue to show fight until
I struck one at a Mornington Peninsula
(Vic.) property. The lizard, after a bit
of a scuffle with its mate, came on to
the kitchen verandah just as the lady of
the house was sweeping. Blue objected
to the broom and went for the sweeper,
with tenacity, too, though the broom
quickly became a weapon. The sight of
the usually placid old scalyback adopting
the role of the aggressor was something
to make a cat laugh. Apparently he
gambled on the celebrated feminine re-
vulsion to all reptilian life ; anyway, there
was a triumphant glitter in his eye as
skirts swished in the retreat to the
kitchen.
« * * «
“Chuck”: A regular feature of the
annual hospital sports is guessing the
weight of the fat sheep. For the past five
or six years the prize had been collected
by the town butcher, and though the
locals knew their guesses were pretty
hopeless with Chopper in the running,
they charitably hazarded a number, and
contributed a bob to the cause. “Guess
the weight of the sheep, mate?” The
worker from the woollen mills glanced
lazily towards the voice, noted the town’s
meat-distributor about to record his cal-
culation, and hastily lined up behind. Old
Chopper ran an eye over the animal,
dropped an inquiring hand on to its back
and turned to the man with the book.
“Hundred-’n’-forty-two,” he said quietly.
Came the mill-worker’s turn. He felt the
wool, parted it carefully, then screwed up
his face and gazed thoughtfully at the
sky. “Hundred-and-forty-six,” he de-
cided. “Chopper’s under it this time.”
At the end of the day the steward sought
him with the prize. “You win,” he de-
clared, “though I don’t see how a bloke
like you could beat Chopper at the game.”
“Aw, Chopper’s awright,” the other
grinned. “Don’t use his head, that’s all.
I reckoned he wouldn’t allow for the
weight o’ water in the wool, from that
shower we had after lunch.”
* * * •
“Columba”: I’ll never hear field-
crickets again (B. 2/3 / ’49) without re-
membering our new minister, straight
from Edinburgh, coping with a Queens-
land heatwave on our verandah. “They’re
noisy tonight,” I said, pointing to the
overhanging cabbage-tree palm. “Aye,
the wee birrds,” he agreed.
* * * •
“Jim O’Keeffe”: Tell “Billy T.” that
his pal Jimmy must have had a damp
glass. The least film of water on the in-
side of a glass, even the little a few puffs
of breath will put there, will flatten the
best beer in short order. It’s amply
demonstrated in a pub at hog-rush time
when wet glasses are usual. The first
filling of beer doesn’t always shift the
water. A wet glass will flatten up to
six successive charges of beer. If Jimmy
was a slow drinker, the sort that fits the
glass to his face and sucks away steadily
like a mullet, he’d leave a condensed
film of water inside the glass as he
breathed through his nose between swal-
lows. That glass would make its next
filling of beer flatter than dead soda-
water.
♦ * * ♦
“Dusty Mile”: The highly-poisonous
nature of the oleander provides the answer
to the high mortality of the blowfly
population that somehow is impelled to
investigate its blooms. Here in far n.-w.
Queensland we grow oleanders around
the houses because they are hardy. Ter-
mites won’t touch them, goats will die of
hunger rather than nibble their foliage,
while a water-bag or food hung among
their branches is safe from the übiquitous
ant. I have never observed any form of
life —bird, insect or animal —that would
have anything to do with them.
* * ♦ •
“Amaldar”: Every so often men badly
injured in rough, mountainous country
are the subject of rescue parties, each of
which has its own method of getting the
patient down precipitous places. In-
jured once up in the Himalayas, I was
brought down by four short but stalwart
Garhwali Highlanders. As with Gurkhas,
these soldiers always carry a kukri, and
with these they cut thin saplings and made
a rough, light hurdle about 18in. wide
and 6ft, long. To this I was lashed.
They then cut a stronger sapling about
14ft. long. Four loops were fixed under
and over the hurdle, the long sapling was
passed through and made fast. With
two men at each end, walking in single
file, they set out on the long journey over
the most primitive kind of goat-track. In
one place it passed over a precipit-
ous face. It would have been impos-
sible for four men, walking two and two
abreast and carrying a stretcher, to have
negotiated the tortuous way. When
they reached the end of a zigzag the
party would halt, turn about one at a
time, change the sapling over to the other
shoulder, but always keeping the litter
on the outside — i.e., the side away from
the mountain. They wouldn’t try to
wheel round at the bends, but would
carry the litter backwards and forwards,
so that I would be going feet-first down
one leg, and then head-first down the next.
When coming down a very steep pinch
three men would be at the front to take
the extra weight, with one only at the
rear. To prevent the litter from jogging
up and down, they took short paces and
did not keep in step, setting a pace some-
thing like a pony ambling. This unusual
way of coming down the mountain was
quite comfortable. The efficient, confi-
dent way these small, big-hearted moun-
taineers handled the situation was first-
class. I commend it to others.
♦ * * *
“Bo”: On his weekly visit to town Ned
Dougherty had spent too much time in
the pub before going over to the general-
store to justify his visit. Ned could
neither read nor write, and he had lost the
slip his missus had written out for him;
so he was forced to make a minute in-
spection of every shelf around the walls
in the hope of remembering what he had
had to get. At last, after about an hour,
he had got pretty well everything, but
one item eluded his memory. “It’s an oil,
I’m certain,” he told Fletcher. The store-
keeper leaned on the counter and patiently,
reeled them off: “Sewing-machine oil,
cod-liver oil, castor oil, salad oil, linseed
oil, separator oil, lighting oil, cleaning
oil.” It was none of these. Wearily and
beerily Ned went on another tour of
inspection of the shop. Then the store-
keeper took him among the drums in the
store-room at the back. Still no good. It
was while he was brushing past some rolls
of material near the door that Ned gave a
shout of triumph. “Whoa!” he said. “I
should have known be the quantity that
it wouldn’t come out of a drum or bottle.
It’s a yard an’ a half the missus wants —
black voile!”
» * * •
“Bon-yi”: Neatest and most handsome
stockwhip handle Tve seen was one an
old drover made from an assortment of
different-colored cattle-horns. Made in
sections about an inch long from the tip
portions, with a core of steel wire-rod,
the handle was beautifully tapered and
highly polished, bringing out the rich
coloring of the horns, ranging from
almost black through rich reds, creams
to pure whites. An artist with rawhide
and leather, he had plaited over a larger
piece for the end, and the whole whip was
a masterpiece,
» * * •
“Heresone”: For originality and cheek
I commend the thombills which built
among the foundations of an occupied
eaglehawk’s nest. Their landlords could
not get at them without pulling down
their own home, and it would take a bold
cat or goanna to molest them there.
* * * •
“Old-timer”: “The way things are
now,” Stoneman said, “a man’s better
out o’ the bush. You remember in our
time most o’ the cockies an’ roadworkers
an’ fencers you’d run into when y’ was
humpin’ the drum’d be glad t’ knock
off for a bit an’ yarn. We used t’ be
sort o’ talebearers, like them old wan-
derin’ minstrels. We’d know how the
country was over Condo, way or what
was doin’ up on the Namoi an’ all about
the fire that burnt the pub at Old Junee,
an’ it was ten chances t’ one we’d met
some bloke they knew an’ be able t’ tell
’em all about him, even if we had t
invent some of it. It ain’t the same to-
day.” He spat disgustedly. “Because if
anyone sees y’ with a swag up an’ tramp-
in’ they reckon you’re a no-hoper or got
a weak noddle or somethin’. That s be-
cause of all this work an’ big money.
It don’t strike nobody any more that a
bloke might want t’ put a swag up an
hit the track just because he liked it.
Everybody’s on the make, these days,
and they reckon everybody else must be,
too, unless he’s cracked or a no-hoper or
somethin’.” He paused and somewhat
moodily drained his glass. “Money,
money, money!” he reflected aloud. ‘ No,
boy, the bush ain’t the same. ? Its
papered with flamin’ pound-notes an big
wheat- an’ wool-cheques an’ everybody
chasin’ quids. Cripes, I wish I could
pick up a good mate an’ head down the
three-chain road t’ Mangoplah or some-
where, just yarnin’ an’ dawdlin’ along.
He went to the door and gazed pensively
up the street. “But I can’t,” he said,
turning back. “So we’ll just have this
one an’ I’ll get back t’ work ” “Where
y’ workin’?” I asked. “Aw, I’m helm
a bloke train a string o’ greyhounds,
he answered. “We got one ready for
Lithgow next week. Ought t’ pay tens
or twelves. We’re slickin’ a coupler
hundred on it,”
GERANIUMS.
When the heat drums,
And the earth’s dry
And the blooms die:
Geraniums.
In lanes and slums,
In the sour plot
Of moss and rot:
Geraniums.
Where the drain scums,
By the old tins
And rubbish-bins;
Geraniums.
Where growth succumbs,
And all else dies;
Red ’neath the skies:
Geraniums.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


“Danny B.”: The school of mullet
milled round the breakwater in a dark
glistening mass. Old Barker hovered
anxiously on the rocks waiting for the
sudden breakaway of the milling fish.
Everything depended on timing, as he’d
tried to impress on the two newchums (all
the labor available) handling the net from
the beach. Suddenly it came. “Shoot!”
he roared as the fish turned and streaked
for the open water. They heard him all
right, but Bill was rolling a smoke and
couldn’t waste good tobacco, and Artie
got his foot snarled in a rope. They
got the net out in time to cafch three
tailer that were following the mullet. The
next recruit on the net was a likely-look-
ing young bloke. Alert,. Barker was
taking no chances this time, just the same.
He watched the milling fish from his
stand on the breakwater, and before they
broke and at what he thought would
give the young bloke time to fiddle round
he gave the signal. “Shoot!” came his
bellow over the water. On the instant
and before Barker’s incredulous eyes the
net went snaking out and around. It
would have been pretty to watch had
the mullet reached anywhere near it. “I
was trained in the Navy,” the young chap
answered the boss’s blue splutters.
“And when I get a signal there’s no
messin’ round!”
* * * ♦
“B. A. Ker”: When Tim, the council
ganger, sent Paddy and Mac to do
a job as a two-man gang I felt bound
to protest: “Perhaps you haven’t noticed
it, Tim, but they hate each other! They’ll
kill” He interrupted me. “That’ll
be the day when I don’t notice what’s
“Sorry to interrupt y'r operation, but the surgeon
fainted"
happening in my own gang! I’ll bet
you half a quid that they’re the best of
cobbers when they come back.” 'A
fortnight later I was happy to pay up.
“It was just commonsense,” said Tim.
“Paddy likes to think he is a
comedian; Mac is a natural butt. All
the time there’s someone to laugh Paddy
is goin’ to keep chiackin’. Put ’em
together with no other audience and
Paddy will make Mac the feller who
does the laughing and find something
else to be funny about. And Mac can
see a joke all right—when it’s not always
on him.” It made sense, up to a point.
“Still, you took a risk; suppose they had
got stuck into each other, with nobody
to drag ’em apart” Tim breathed
heavily down his nose: “Then one would
have won and the other lost, and that
would have been the end of it. The
loser would have been able to turn it
up —instead of fighting on because the
mob might say he squibbed it. But they
wouldn’t fight—because you can’t tell me
one case you know of when two blokes
fought it out without an audience.” And
blowed if I could. But I could think of
plenty of instances when two men worked
together in the bush all day, then declared
each other “on” when they got back with
the mob at night.
* * * *
“L.G.8.”: Ever tried to force down
the upstanding spiked fin of a leather-
jacket? Short of breaking it it cannot
be done. The reason lies in the bone
structure on which the fin hinges. When
the “jacket” is frightened the fin auto-
matically rises, a sliding bone comes up,
fits into a socket and locks the belligerent
fin. Unless the fish relaxes it of its own
accord the bone-lever won’t release.
The white-breasted shag knows the
answer to it, though. Watch him take a
jacket and you’ll see he grabs it in the
exact position to allow him to bite
through to the locking apparatus. As the
fin slides down so does the jacket—down
the shag’s throat.
« * * •
“Hanko”: I’ve studied snakes since I
was knee-high to a thin pancake, and.
it’s my notion that if “Groper’s” Carr
Boyd (B. 2/3/’49) had had his fantastic
reptile operating with its head-end he’d
have been close on the beam. Certainly
a snake does not- bite a way into the
ground ; if it did it would squander its
most prized possession, its venom. For
what it’s worth, here’s my theory on how
a snake goes underground. It must first
find a ready-made opening deep and
large enough to allow it to lay rearward
its head and so present a face to its first
line of underplates; it then revolves,
actually drilling a way inward, the
loosened soil being “corkscrewed” along
the plates to the ventral scales, which
eject and scatter it. Digging-out will re-
veal that a snake-hole is not merely a
long tunnel in which a snake lies stretched
or U-shaped, but at the ending a spacious
apartment in which it can coil to hiber-
nate. Strangely, apart from the egg-
laying brown snake, the females of the
tiger, black and copperhead seem not to
bother with a cellared accouchement-
chamber, but bear their snakelets any-
old-where, caring nothing for elaborate
cover.
* ♦ * ♦
“S.E.”: From the further end of the
cowyard-fence Ted could see over -to
Harry Proctor’s place. He watched as a
figure on the neighboring property caught
a horse; then as he rode
off Ted moved to where
he could view the fork in
the road. Presently he
called Dave. “That’s old
man Proctor on, the
brown,” he informed. “But
what the blazes is he doin’
goingupSandy Bend way? ”
“Can’t want that nag shod
again yet,” puzzled
Dave. “And he’s ridin’
too fast to be hunting
strays. Must want to see
somebody. P’raps about
stock.” “Gripes, yair ; I
bet it’s Tim Cameron’s
rams he’s after,” Ted de-
cided. “I reckon Tim’d
get rid of ’em this season,”
“Yair, and if Proctor buys
those he’ll prob’ly sell
some of his coarser ewes,”
Dave answered. “I’ll slip
over t’night and offer him
thirty-five bob for ’em.”
“Good idea,” the other
agreed. “If he ain’t back
in, say, two hours, y’ll
know he rode out with
Tim to look the rams
over ; and he’s sure t’ buy.
Proctor’s easy like that.”
“Yair. Close, though.
Don’t tell y’ much. There
was a rumor round a
while Back that he might
retire t’ the city before
long.” “To the city!” Old
Ted showed surprise. “Aw,
cripes, Procfor’d never live in a crowded
joint like that. Why, a bloke can’t even
step out the flamin’ door down there,” he
snorted, “but what the whole blinkin’
world knows where he’s goin’.”
*** „ *
“Isa Lei”: A curious encounter be-
tween a fox and a fowl at Port Victoria
(S.A.) brought death to the fox.
The hen was nesting in a haystack when
the fox found her out and attacked. As
he pulled the hen off the nest she got
one of her legs caught in a long band of
twine around a sheaf of hay. As the
cunning one slid down the side of the
stack with his victim, the spur of the
hen’s free leg got hooked in the sinew
of its attacker’s hindleg. Although he re-
leased his grip on the fowl, which was
still suspended by the twine, the chook’s
claw remained embedded in his leg. Thus
they both dangled helplessly on the side
of the haystack until the next morning,
“Mine won't play—Wonder what I've forgotten?"
“Mat’s Mate”: We pulled up at
Gunningbland, undecided whether to head
for Forbes or Bogan Gate, when a tow-
headed youth on a bike joined us and
shared our tea. He asked which way we
were heading,' and we confessed our
dilemma, whereupon he said, with en-
thusiasm, “Go for the Gate. There’s a
good sort of a John there. He’ll grab y’
soon’s he sees y’ an’ run y’ in. But it’s
only because he don’t like t’ see a bloke
hungry on the track, an’ he does it for an
excuse t’ feed y’ up an’ start y’ off in a
day or two with full nose-bags. Y’ want
t’ give him a go. He’s all right, I can
tell y’.” We were short of cash and tucker
and decided it would be the Gate. Just
after we started Mat turned round and
yelled to the youth, who stopped pedal-
ling. Mat went to him, they conferred
for a moment, the youth rode off and Mat
came back. “Come on,” he said, “we’ll
head for Forbes.” “What’s wrong with
you?” I demanded. “Nothin’,” he
growled; “only that copper’s got two
grown-up daughters, an’ he tells blokes
about gettin’ married an’ settlin’ down.
I knew there was a ruddy catch in it
somewhere.”
* * * *
“Second Shingler”; There oughtn’t to
be much trouble in discovering the origin
of “cobbler” to describe the slowest
shearer in the shed (B. 16/3/’49). The
“cobbler” is the last sheep in the pen,
usually left because it is the roughest
one and therefore the last one of that
pen to be finished. It usually fell, too,
to the slower of the two men on that
pen, so the slowest shearer in the shed
would probably cop more 1 cobblers
than anyone else.
* * * ♦
“Sarina”: The most sluggish creature
when hooked is the freshwater turtle (B.
2/3/’49)—it promptly tucks its head
under its shell and plays dead. It is
always hard to extricate the hook from
the amphibian’s leathery jaw, and it s
usually ruined, anyhow. I’ve seen turtles
close their jaws on careless fingers, and
they’ve seldom got ’em loose without
a lot of prising after the catch’s head had
been cut off.
« * * *
“Zake”: The Passmores lived about 30
miles from the nearest township, and
when Grandpa Passmore, 94, keeled over
after spending two hours in the rain help-
ing to pull a bogged cow out, young Joe
was sent the five miles to Dawkins’, the
nearest neighbor, to ring up the doctor.
Instructions were given that Grandpa s
temperature had to be taken and the
result phoned through. Later in the after-
noon Joe came over again and got Mrs.
Dawkins to give the doctor a message
to the effect that they didn’t have a ther-
mometer, but they had used a barometer,
which showed “unsettled.” They asked
that the doctor tell them what they would
use to settle him. The quack’s reply was
to the point. “There is no need to do
anything so drastic yet. Wait till I see
him in the morning.”
* * ♦ *
“Richard Small”: Our local N.Q. tribe
was laughing and talking and making
merry over a roasted cassowary. Sud-
denly a dead silence fell on the camp
as all eyes turned to look apprehensively
up the track whence -came a high-pitched,
bubbling call The blacks, who by this
time were greys, stoked the fires and held
a hasty conference, stopping now and
then to listen to each new outburst of
the devilish sound. The cause of the
noise would have to be found and, if
possible, killed or chased before the
peace, if not the safety, of the camp
could be restored. After much mumbling
the bucks left the camp armed with
spears and waddies and each carrying a
fire-stick. They sneaked along the track
led by a feeble old man. Cautious
search and prodding in the grass with
spear-tips revealed nothing. One by one
the fire-sticks went out, so the little band
hastened back to the camp, at full gallop,
lest they be left in the dark with this un-
known creature. Next night the dreadful
sound started again. The bucks lit fire-
sticks and, armed to the teeth, stole
cautiously up the track. There was much
juggling in the ranks as each sought a
better position for the gallop back to the
camp to tell the gins what the thing was.
Suddenly the gins shivered and groaned
and rolled their eyes, as the stillness was
rent by what they took to be a scream ;
but, as they soOn learned by the actions
of the bucks, was a whoop of joy. Then
down the track came the victors, laugh-
ing and chiding one another about who
was frightened. At the feet of the wide-
eyed gins and piccaninnies, in full light
of the fires, was thrown a spear on which
was impaled the first giant American
toad the tribe had ever seen!
* * * ♦
“Hanko”: Tying down a stack, and me
at one end with a couple of fence-posts
tied and held hands-high. The boss led
the wire over the stack and down to
where Choom awaited it with a huge
boulder. I felt my burden ease and
the trump’s voice sounding faintly:
“Righto.” I pulled on the posts to bring
up evenly the opposing weight—and they
dived upon me and sent me asprawl.
Winded and bruised, I heard the twang
and swish of the wire as it recoiled.
“Slipped off stone an’ all,” I heard
Choom say. “Slipped off loike nowt, it
did.” I staggered out from the stack.
The boss was sitting on its roof clasp-
ing his left leg. “Flamin’ wire nilly tore
me leg orf,” he moaned. He glared down
at Choom. “Git a coupler posts for that
end,” he said. He had another look at
his ripped pants and lacerated leg. “An’
pelt that blasted stone outer the pad-
dick!” he yelled.
* » ♦ •
“Billy T”; The Brady-MacSkirl feud
in our valley has broken out again. It
started years ago when, the pioneering
hardships mainly overcome, the district
progressed to the point of holding its first
show. Pretty well everybody entered for
pretty well everything, but Dinny Brady
and Jock MacS., as the two most pro-
gressive settlers, fought out most of the
finishes; and by the time each, with his
supporters, had called upon the gods and
all local experts to witness the ignorance
or corruption of the judges who had made
awards to the other, the rift was beyond
repair—rather was it deepened by the fact
that the missus of each had battled it out
for the cookery prizes. Years rolled by,
and in the struggle to outdo the other
these two leaders of agriculture more that
fulfilled the aims of those who started th»
shows: “to improve methods in the dis-
trict” ; but, as in all fields where wide
learning is sought, there comes a time
when specialisation becomes evident.
Dinny, spurred by the unswerving deter-
mination to “bate that blashted Haggis”
if he had to breed a potato “the length of
me arm,” set such a standard for spuds,
onions and cabbages that those prizes
were acknowledged to be his right; while
Mac produced maize and pumpkins that
enabled him to feel almost benevolent as
he drove past those of his neighbors.
Similarly in the kitchens Mrs. B. had
learnt to bottle fruit that looked even
better than the advertisements, while Mrs.
Mac’s cakes and scones discouraged com-
petition, and relations had mellowed
almost to the point where an exchange
of lesser recipes could be expected. Then
Dinny landed a low blow and wrecked
everything—he planted pumpkins in an
old pigsty out of the range of enemy
observation ; while Mrs. Mac, whose
cousin in the mountains sent her a case
of cherries so superb that “it was a pity
not to bottle some of them,” did so, and
their success stirred her to the challenge.
Both entries were winners; so it’s on
again,
THE CURRAWONGS.
So well the summer noonday sleeps
The lightest leaf is still;
Only the lengthening shadow creeps
Silently up the hill.
Then rainbirds from the mountain crest,
Half shouting, half in song,
Call to the cloudbanks in the west,
“Come along, oh, come along!”
Up from the west the answering storm,
Before the day is done,
Drives in the showers, swarm on swarm,
Drowns the despairing sun;
The towering thunderheads collapse,
Melt down and break apart,
The hills draw down their woolly caps, -
Mist hides the valley’s heart.
Swift runnels from the mountain steeps
Link up their silver chains
And with the wind the forest weeps,
Rocking beneath the rains.
All night, but now through snowy swirls,
The rising fogs disclose
The gum-leaves dripping pointed pearls.
Day opening like a rose.
The magpies chant their morning rhymes
Together, joyful-hearted;
The bush is full of bellbird chimes,
The rainbirds have departed.
Into the forest deeps withdrawn
I heard a noisy throng
Shout to the laggard through the dawn
“Come along, oh, come along!”
VICTORIA.
K. DALZIEL.


m
m
For a COOLER
HOUSE in SUMMER and
a WARMER HOUSE in
WINTER - include
IGOCS^Oii
in your new home or
remodelling plans
i inch of Cane-ite
provides better insulation
than 16 inches of
concrete or 8 "
inches of brick.
Insulate and Decorate with
* c
WALLS and CEILINGS
Sold by Hardware Stores and Timber Merchants everywhere.
Manufactured by
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
Building Materials Division
'wfe
The DOCTOR AT LLOYD'S
Although most of the customs and traditions associated
with the early history of Lloyd’s of London have survived
until the present time, there is one notable exception—
the “Doctors” at Lloyd’s.
They were a special coterie of Underwriter-Broker, sought
after by their colleagues for re-insurance against a risk
becoming a total loss, such as when a vessel had become
a casualty or was considered overdue, as well as unusual
risks carrying heavy liabilities. However, with the advent
of steam and modern, fast means of communication with
the corresponding reduction in risks, they are fast becoming
a class that to-day is almost extinct.
if This little thumb-nail sketch which, we hope, will be of
interest to you, is one of a series of personalities who were
prominent in the early days of histo'ric Lloyd’s of London.
EDWARD LIJMLEY
A wealth of experience in all phases of Insurance, gained
through long association with Lloyd’s, underlies the service
that we place at your disposal through our branches in
every State of the Commonwealth.
Your inquiry for further information would be welcome.
EDWARD LUMLEY & SONS PTY. LTD.
263 George St., Sydney, and 33 Watt St., Newcastle
AND ALL OTHER STATES
& SONS PTY. LTD.
Insurances effected at
EL.20.f8
Business,Rollery,Etc.
The Sharemarket
The fall in lead prices, accom-
panied by weakness on the Lon-
don and New York Stock Ex-
changes, hit Barrier stocks hard
last week, and the rest of the
sharemarket was depressed.
Broken Hill Prop., though it has
no interest in silver-lead mining
these days, declined in sympathy
with Norths, Souths and Zincs.
Last year, at this time, there
was a fall in the sharemarket,
one of the chief casualties being
Felt and Textiles, which has
never recovered. Most other
stocks then affected, however,
subsequently regained all lost
ground ;* and it can be shown,
over a long period of years
(pegged-price period excepted),
that the “Ides of March” are
something for speculators to be-
ware of, though long-term in-
vestors have seen these re-
cessions through, with subse-
quent profit.
Apart from this perennial first-
quarter weakness, the overseas
lead position has been a shock
to the market, especially in view
of the confident views expressed
by Alexander Stewart at Broken
Hill South’s meeting: he said,
inter alia, that “the world pro-
duction of lead continues to lag
substantially behind demand,
and there does not appear to be
any reason to expect that state
of affairs to alter in the near
future.” Another cause of mar-
ket weakness has been the heavy
impact of new issues, especially
through the conversion of private
cos. into public concerns. In
the latter case, however, there
should be little or no alteration
in the amount of investment
funds available, since the
vendors will probably, in most
cases, merely seek a change of
investment. A third cause has
been the unrelenting combina-
tion of the effects of Socialism on
company profit-earning
namely, rising wage-costs, con-
trolled selling prices, restricted
trade-union production, heavy
taxation, and prolonged Govern-
ment interference with initiative.
The normal fruits of industrial
effort in Australia have been de-
ferred for about 10 years now.
Investors have not benefited
from the expansion that has
taken place in the industries they
nominally control, nor have they
been compensated for the depre-
ciation in the buying-power of
currency. Yet in the industries
represented by Stock Exchange
investments rest the hopes of
private enterprise. Unless Aus-
tralian industries are to become
completely socialised —or Com-
munised many Australian
industries should give their
owners, in the future, far greater
rewards than they have been
allowed to do over the pa&t de-
cade. But the change will pot
occur while “Labor” is in power
in Canberra and is afraid to deal
with the Communism-in-union-
ism menace.
Coolgardie G.M.
The Bulletin has on a num-
ber of occasions asserted that the
market price for Mt. Eba Gold
Mines shares was too high, and
a couple of times it has said the
same thing about Coolgardie
Gold Mines, a later float. Pitt-
street miners, it was contended,
were playing the market in both
stocks.
Mt. Eba, a W.A. development
concern with an issue of 400,000
2s. 6d. shares, has had a market
at over Bs. for its shares over a
long period, giving the show a
valuation of over £160,000; while
Coolgardie, with 200,000 2s. 6d.
shares valued at 265. or so, was
appraised at £260,000. “Suck-
ers” were warned that these
prices were out of all reason so
far as goldmining gambles went;
and there is evidence that the
directors of both companies have
lately become concerned about
the queer support that has been
given the shares in the market.
Last week the board of Cool-
gardie Gold Mines came straight
put and told Sydney Stock Ex-
change that they considered the
price of the scrip too high—they
did this “in the interests of the
public and for the protection of
the directors.” They also said
that they were confident of the
successful outcome of the com-
pany’s venture. “Success,” of
course, would be achieved if the
company paid in dividends a
sum equal to twice its paid capi-
tal —or total divs. of £50,000,
"Done't be frightened , Henry—ask him now!"
which is a long way short of the
recent market capitalisation.
The directors of Goolgardie are
to be commended for their
action in providing some healthy
ventilation in the sultry market
conditions existing round Cool-
gardie shares. But in spite of
the warnings the price of Cool-
gardie scrip stayed around 265.
last Ftiday. The situation ap-
pears almost weird, ,
Fallacy and Fact
Two fallacies rampant in
Maoriland today are that prices
can be gagged and manacled
while wages go free, and that
workers can forget all about out-
puts while they’re chasing higher
wages. Maoriland unionists
haven’t a monopoly of these
ideas, but they’ve been encour-
aged by paternal Socialist Labor
legislators, with economic-insu-
lation leanings, to think they can
teach the world. So far they’ve
got no further than giving suc-
cessive pushes to the inflationary
spiral, but they haven’t learned
their lesson yet. Perhaps they
won’t admit defeat until the
pa p e r-prosperity bubble is
pricked.
New Zealand economists
figure out that wages in N.Z., as
elsewhere, swallow up 85 p.c. ol
all costs, barring tax, and that
only rent, interest and profits are
controllable; so the squeeze is
narrowed down to 15 p.c. of the
field, at the most. By putting
the pressure on they’ve forced
wages right through into prices,
which lash back, and they won-
der what’s wrong with the
pound, which won’t buy as much
as it did.
Finance Minister Walter Nash
thought he had put things right
by giving the pound monkey-
gland treatment when he
chopped 20 p.c. off the exchange
rate last August; but the bene-
fits of that have been frittered
away, except outside the country.
Exchange funds in London have
been sticky this export season,
in spite of peak prices and big
volume of exports, while at home
there’s more money around than
Maorilanders need. Imports are
throttled to keep enough mil-
lions in M.L.’s bank-account in
London to impress the world
and flatter Maorilanders’ pride,
but belts have to be tightened to
do it. This is not a healthy sign,
and it doesn’t help the purchas-
ing-power of inflated internal
wages.
The Dominion’s “new-look”
pounds, worth more in Aus-
tralia, England and other places
than in the land of their birth,
migrated in such numbers in flip
first few months after the big
change that M.L. had to tighten
financial controls to set a limit
of £5 to the banknotes travelling
Maorilanders could take with
them to Australia and most
other parts of the globe, and
£lO to U.K. This and other
measures aim to hold back the
flood of money pressing on
N.Z.’s exchange from the rear;
but they add to the difficulty of
reaching firm ground. Instead
of helping N.Z. out of its
troubles, they force it deeper
into the mire. There’ll be a lot
of cleaning-up to do when the
present “sellers’ picnic” is over
and prices for farm products
react in the world markets.
Maoriland farmers are driven
into a corner, for it’s common
knowledge that all costs are
passed on until they reach
the man on the land, who either
foots the bill or goes to the wall".
If export income dropped sud-
denly many producers would be
in Queer Street, and workers
who can’t, or won’t, see any con-
nection between wages and
prices or wages and hourly out-
put today would soon be won-
dering what had hit them.
Revalued Assets
Where a company has insti-
gated a revaluation of its fixed
assets resulting in a much higher
figure than book-values, a
talking-point of some interest
arises on the question of future
depreciation. Especially is it
relevant now when so many
firms are converting to public
cos. If the new valuation is
actually adopted in the co.’s
books in place of the smaller
previous figure, future deprecia-
tion may have to be at a sub-
stantially higher rate than be-
fore ; and the prospectus record
of profits becomes an inexact
pointer to future earnings. On
the other hand, if the revaluation
isn’t incorporated in the books
but only offered to investors as
an indication of the asset back-
ing of shares, it should be re-
membered that such backing can
be maintained only if the board
henceforth allows for deprecia-
tion on a higher scale than the
book-values demand—that is, if
there is adequate writing-off
against the full revaluation.
The inclusion in prospectus
statements of up-to-date valua-
tions of fixed assets has become
a common practice—and cer-
tainly not one to be discouraged.
But under present conditions the
valuations are almost automati-
cally in excess of book figures,
and directors have a responsi-
bility to tell shareholders as
clearly as possible what deprecia-
tion standards they intend to
adopt.
Chapman marine engines
have been turned out hitherto
by the partnership of Chapman
and Sherack, at Erskineville
(Sydney), which is converting to
a public co. The partners are to
receive £37,500 for assets trans-
ferred to the co. (including £2050
for goodwill); of this considera-
tion £20,000 will be in cash and
£17,500 in ss. shares. The public
is invited to subscribe £32,500
and so make the initial paid
capital £50,000. Over the past
five years the partnership’s net
profits, before tax, averaged
£3B9f ; production is stated to
have been below plant capacity
and the market demand. Jack
Beale, M.L.A., is chairman of
the new co.; and the founder of
the business, M. G. Chapman, its
managing-director. Also on the
board are J. L. Sherack and B. J.
Halvorsen.


Spots, roughness
and soreness may
the beauty of
skin and com-
BUMISHES
\ J pleadon I Use Cuticura
' Soap regularly its
antiseptic and medicinal pro-
perties make and keep the
skin exquisitely smooth and
charming. One of the famous'
trio—Cuticura Soap, Oint-
ment and Talcum Powder.
529
TRADE MARK
‘‘CELLOPHANE”
NOTICE is hereby given 'that British
Cellophane Limited, of Bath Road,
Bridgwater, Somerset, England, Manu-
facturer, is the registered owner in
the Commonwealth of Australia of
the following Trade Mark:
“CELLOPHANE”
which is registered under No. 40461
in Class 50(3) in respect of Cellulose
sheets made from pulp and all pro-
ducts and articles manufactured from
the said sheets.
The application of the word
“CELLOPHANE” to goods of the
above-mentioned class means that
such goods are the goods of British
Cellophane Limited.
No other stimulant
is quite the same as
SCHNAPPS
The name “Schnapps'” distinguishes a special
type of spirit which is absolutely unique in
character, flavour and aroma.
First introduced to the
English-speaking world more
than 100 years ago, Wolfe’s
Schnapps has earned world-
wide fame both as a refresh-
ing, satisfying drink, and a
reliable, healthful
stimulant. Always
keep a bottle of
Wolfe’s Schnapps
in the home.
WOLFES
MOMATK
WOLFE’S
c zfircmatcc
*IC
EYE LOTION
For inflamed Eyes end Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H.A.Rose & Co.Ptf.Ltd-King St. Sydney
[BANISH GREY HAIR|
with
NASONSI
Available at
I A nthony Horderns’l
THE ZING CORPORATION, LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
EXCHANGE OF STOCK AND SHARES IN THE
ZINC CORPORATION. LIMITED, FOR SHARES IN
THE CONSOLIDATED ZINC CORPORATION, LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
Extracts from an Offer by The Consolidated Zinc Corporation Limited, to Members of The
Zinc Corporation, Limited, and from an accompanying letter from Mr. John R. Govett, the
Chairman of the Zinc Corporation.
The close of hostilities enabled the Zinc Corporation to proceed with its long-term policy of expanding
and extending its mining and exploratory operations and its other interests in the smelting and allied ihdustries
which deal with the treatment and disposal of its metals and other products. For the past three and a half
years the extent to which this policy has been implemented has greatly strengthened the Company’s position
by broadening the basis of its operations and by providing additional opportunities for development.
These extensions of interests have involved and will continue to involve the Zinc Corporation in many
problems of finance, control and management quite outside the scope of its main business.
It was hoped that the formation in 1947 of The Broken Hill Corporation Limited would provide a
satisfactory means of dealing with these problems, but it was not at that time expected that the opportunity
would occur so soon of acquiring the Ordinary share capital of Imperial Smelting Corporation Limited,
and the Preference and Ordinary share capital of Sulphide Corporation, Limited. The acquisition 9f these
interests has increased the financial requirements of the Group and emphasised the need for simplification
in control and management.
The Directors of the Zinc Corporation have considered various means of effecting a general consolida-
tion which would be satisfactory equally to shareholders in the United Kingdom and in Australia. As a lesult
THE CONSOLIDATED ZINC CORPORATION LIMITED,
has recently been formed and will have an authorised capital of £20,000,000, divided into 4i per cent.
Preference shares, Ordinary shares and unclassified shares, all of £1 each.
The new Corporation’s President, Mr. W. S. Robinson, is also President of the Zinc Corporation, and
the Directors, with the exception of Mr. D. P. C. Neave, Managing Director of Imperial Smelting
Corporation Limited, are all members ®f the Board of the Zinc Corporation.
As the first step in this consolidation The Consolidated Zinc Corporation Limited (below called
“C.Z.C.”), offers to acquire the Stock and Shares of every class in the capital of The Zinc Corporation,
Limited (below called “Z.C.”), in exchange for Shares in C.Z.C. on terms fully set put in the Offer
and on the basis of:
Z.C. C.Z.C.
For every £lOO 5$ per cent. Cumulative Preference 145 4) per cent, fully paid Cumulative Preference
Stock Shares of £1 each.
For every £lOO 5£ per cent. Cumulative Redeemable 120 4£ per cent, fully paid Cumulative Preference
Preference Stock Shares of £1 each.
For every £lOO Ordinary Stock or for every 100 400 fully paid Ordinary Shares of £1 each.
Ordinary Shares of 10s. eacn
and so in proportion for holdings of other amounts, except that all resulting fractions of Preference Shares
in C.Z.C. will be paid in cash at par.
Subject to this offer becoming unconditional, the Directors of Z.C. propose to pay on Ist July, 1949,
to-members registered on the date the offer becomes unconditional the following dividends:
(a) A dividend at the rate of 5£ per cent, per annum (less U.K. income tax) on the 5i per cent.
Cumulative Preference Stock and the 5£ per cent. Cumulative Redeemable Preference Stock, in
respect of the period Ist January, 1949, to 30th June, 1949.
(b) A further interim dividend of 7s. 6d. (less U.K. income tax) making, with the interim dividend
of 2s. 6d. (less U.K. income tax) paid on Ist January, 1949, a total distribution of 10s. (less
U.K. income tax) for each £1 of Ordinary Stock and for each Ordinary Share in respect of the
year ended 31st December, 1948.
It is proposed to apply to the Council of The Stock Exchange, London, for permission to deal in
and for quotation for the Preference and Ordinary Shares in C.Z.C. to be allotted credited as fully paid
in accordance with the terms of this offer upon such Shares being so allotted. Similar applications will
be made to The Stock Exchanges at Adelaide, Melbourne and Sydney, Australia.
On completion of the exchange, the Consolidated Zinc Corporation will beebme the parent company
of the Zinc Corporation Group with (assuming 100 per cent, exchange or acquisition of stock and shares)
an issued share capital of £7,524,573, divided into:
976,626 4i per cent. Cumulative Preference shares of £1 each and 6,547,947 Ordinary shares of £1 each.
Dependent upon such completion, it is proposed to issue for cash a further 2,500,000 4i per cent.
Cumulative Preference Shares of the Consolidated Zinc Corporation, to meet the general financial require-
ments of the Group as set out .in the full Offer. It is intended that members of the Zinc Corporation
Group as well as the public generally shall have the opportunity of subscribing for this issue, but that
the former shall be given preferential consideration on allotment.
Finally, it is proposed that an offer shall be made to holders of the £1,000,000 44 per cent. Redeemable
Cumulative Preference Stock of The Broken Hill Corporation Limited, to exchange their stock for an equal
amount of 4i per cent. Cumulative Preference Shares of the Consolidated Zinc Corporation.
The issued share capital of the Consolidated Zinc Corporation will, as a result of these two further
issues, then become £11,024,573 divided into;
‘ 4,476,626 4i per cent. Cumulative Preference shares of £1 each, and 6,547,947 Ordinary shares of £1 each.
The Zinc Corporation at present holds the whole of the issued Ordinary shares in Imperial Smelting
Corporation Limited, and the whole of the issued Ordinary stock in The Broken Hill Corporation Limited.
It is intended that in due course the Consolidated Zinc Corporation shall acquire both these holdings
from the Zinc Corporatibn and also take into its possession the assets of The Broken Hill Corporation Limited.
All monetary references above are shown in English currency.
Copies of the full offer and appendix thereto can be obtained during usual business hours from:
MELBOURNE TRANSFER OFFICE,
The Consolidated Zinc Corporation Limited, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne
LONDON AIRMAIL
From Herbert Holman
If a bright, sunny February
has given a fillip to steel produc-
tion and advanced spring
flowers, the icy, violent onset of
March has so far only threat-
ened to plunder. Estuary gales
have heaped up. the spring tides
and caused the Thames to over-
flow at Lambeth Bridge and else-
where. London has had its first
heavy snowfall of the winter. In
defiant contrast, crocuses and a
few hardy daffodils have nosed
through the snow while, above,
trees are in bud and almond-
blossom out.
Behind closed doors cricket
practice becomes more serious ;
and at Ashford (Kent), Bill
Edrich has tried out the first
portable concrete wicket to be
used in this country. The Ideal
Home Exhibition at Olympia
(referred to by the cynical as
“Dreamland”) draws large
crowds ; of necessity it must hint
at the future rather than cater
for the present.
Political Patches
None of the three political
parties seems to be without
worries. Labor, although flushed
with by-election successes and
still confident of a majority in
the general election of next year,
cannot make up its mind which
course to follow: whether to
bring its nationalisation steam-
roller to a halt and consolidate
its legislative triumphs, or to
carry on with the doctrinaire
stampede.
It was said of the khaki elec-
tion after World War I that Lloyd
George held a huge majority—
and a huge majority held him.
There’s plenty of evidence to
point to similar conditions now.
During three overlapping by-
election campaigns, announce-
ments were made, significantly
premature, that sweets, clothes,
coke and (for a limited period
only) eggs and milk would come
off the ration later in the year.
The volte face over blood sports
is even more premature. Mr.
Seymour Cocks’s bill prohibiting
the hunting of deer, otters and
badgers, and the coursing of
hares and rabbits, was intended
as a humane measure. What-
ever the rights and wrongs may
be, the argument that the alter-
native—trapping, shooting, etc.
—would lead to even greater
cruelty seems to be a rationalisa-
tion that lacks both honesty
and courage. The defeat of the
bill, by 214 votes to 101, was
mainly due to the fact that in-
dustrial and agricultural workers
were known to be against it.
The Conservatives are glum,
and with good cause, for they
realise that they’re not making
much headway. A large body
of middle-class voters yields
neither to the direct appeal of
Mr. Herbert Morrison nor to
the genial benignity of Lord
Woolton, chairman of the Con-
servative party. The Tories are
puzzled, as they felt certain that
these hard-pressed business and
professional people, whose
energies are stifled and whose
pockets are reduced by penal
taxation, would revolt against
Socialist expenditure and hurry
to join the party. This latter
they have not yet done, and their
influence on the electoral regis-
ter is unaccountable. Prejudice
against the Tories dies hard, if
indeed it dies at all. The Con-
servatives have failed to put over
what, in fact, they strive to
convey: that their outlook and
policy are not reactionary but
essentially liberal.
What of the 2,000,000 or so
who, whether they use a small
or a capital “L” to describe
themselves, hold Liberal views?
It is paradoxical that the country
which has the fairest claim to
the origin, tradition and sheer
force of Liberal thought is with-
out effective representation in its
own Parliament. British Liber-
alism, as a political entity, has
been on the decline for 20
years: 59 M.Ps. in 1929, 35 in
1931, 32 in 1935 and 13 in 1945
(these figures exclude the few
Independent Liberals). Nor are
there any signs of a virile re-
surgence. Their electioneering
record is a poor one, with a dis-
heartening list of forfeited de-
posits. Next year should deter-
mine whether or not the party
can survive; but the prospects
aren’t hopeful.
There’s no doubt that a solid,
decisive Liberal party would be
a strong moderating influence,
especially where most needed —
against Socialist irresponsibility.
Two-party conflict of Left v.
Right is something of a Parlia-
mentary misfit in this still-
democratic country.
Problem Plays
Drama and conflict are in-
separable, Their legitimate off-
spring, the problem play, is by
right of inheritance the mainstay
of the serious theatre. Apart
from revivals and the classics,
current West End plays offer:
a balanced inquiry into the re-
percussions of artificial insemina-
tion ; a glimpse into the near-
past of Japanese prison-camps,
American soldier internees, and
the effect of both upon a sensi-
tive, race-conscious Jew; the
tragic consequences of a self-
seeking manufacturer’s indul-
gence in his son ; and a con-
trived, pseudo - sophisticated
variation on the “triangle”
theme, with mother -in - law,
daughter and son-in-law as con-
testants.
“The Heiress” (Theatre Royal,
Haymarket) depends upon
neither the topical nor the far-
fetched for its problems: it is
the • simple family situation of
a young man’s impact upon the
ordered lives of a wealthy
widower and his repressed
daughter. When the suitor
appears it is plain to everybody,
on the stage and off, that he is
a fortune-hunter. But the girl
-falls, perhaps less for his bland-
ishments than for the sheer
opportunity. The parent takes
her away, but on her return, six
months later, she hates him in-
sensately and is the more madly
in love with her image. An
elopement is arranged, but when
the adventurer learns that she
will forfeit two-thirds of her
fortune he leaves her high, dry
and angry. Meanwhile the
father dies, the cupboard-lover
seeks fortune elsewhere and the
daughter broods. When he turns
up again, two years later,
genuinely seeking love as well
as money, she eggs him on with
rancid determination before
spitefully jilting him.
The play, set in the New
York of 100 years ago, is less a
tragedy of unrequited love than
of mental torture: which is not
to imply that it lacks wit and
entertainment. The underlying
conflicts spring from the re-
flected resentment of the father
against his daughter, first for,
“killing” her mother at birth
and, second, for lacking the
mother’s charm, intelligence and
social graces. These virtues sig-
nificantly are not in evidence
until after the father’s death;
and then they are muted.
Ruth and Augustus Goetz
have successfully adapted Henry
James’s novel, Washington
Square. If the seven scenes tend
to jerk the action, the drama
loses little in sum. But it does
demand the utmost refinement
of technical precision, both in
acting and production. It gets
them. As the father. Sir Ralph
Richardson is bluff, self-assured
and sly. Peggy Ashcroft, as the
daughter, is repellent without
being repugnant; she strides
gawkily, mouths her embarrass-
ments with an explosive lisp and
is alb bewilderment. James
Donald is refreshingly original
as the mercenary suitor. Gillian
Lind plays the garrulous, moon-
struck aunt with the right degree
of fuss and flourish; and Ann
Wilton, as the bad-hat’s sister,
gives to a difficult part an apt
touch of courage.
John Gielgud’s production is
remarkable for its simplicity and
for the uncanny use he makes
of pace and intonation. The
psychological insight is debat-
able ; for such seething agonies
of mind the well-mannered re-
straint outstrips credibility.


FIRST IN 1888
No other Battery can match . . .
<U7
FIRST TODAY!
Exide’s 61 Years’ Experience
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD., 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PERSQNAL ITEMS
An interested spectator of “Scott of
the Antarctic” at the Savoy, Melbourne,
was Captain Gerald Doorly. Forty-
seven years ago he was third officer in
the relief-ship Morning, which sailed to
locate Scott on his 1901 expedition—at
the time Scott was ice-bound in the Dis-
covery for about 12 months. They
found him and his men, frozen-in and
suffering from scurvy, but all cheerful,
near McMurdo Sound, 2000 miles from
Maoriland. Doorly, who was a Port
Phillip pilot for 20 years, claims to be
the oldest surviving member of any
Polar expedition. He was born in Trini-
daci, served his time in windjammers,
commanded 24 steamers of the Union
Co. of N.Z., transported thousands of
Dominion troops during World War I
and was torpedoed in the Aparima in
1917. He knew Conrad, is a friend of
Masefield, writes poetry himself, and has
published several volumes, all with the
smack of the sea in them. Several made
their first appearance in The Bulletin,
and he dropped in to this office recently
for permission to print one of them in the
Melbourne Shiplovers’ Society’s Journal,
For 40 years the physics students at
Adelaide Uni. have stared with varying
degrees of comprehension at the face of
Prof. Kerr Grant; no*v there is a new
target. Prof. Leonard Huxley, presented
PHYSICIST.
here for wider edification by Coventry.
Born in London, he was carried by his
owners to Tasmania —being too young
to walk —and learned his pothooks at
Hutchins School, Hobart. The Speck’s
1923 Rhodes Scholarship carried him back
to England, where, at Oxford, he won a
further bushel of scholarships. Hitler’s
war found him lecturing in physics at
Leicester’s University College, from which
he graduated to the headship of the Air-
craft Production Ministry’s telecommuni-
cations research radar school, the largest
in Britain; there he was in large
degree responsible for extending those
welcoming electronic fingers which
Hitler’s airborne emissaries found so un-
welcome. In 1946 he became acting-head
of Birmingham University’s Electrical
Engineering Department, where Prof. Oli-
phant, the atom-man, is head of the
Physics Department. Huxley is a distant
relative of that other famous clan, and
met his wife at Oxford, when she was
in the process of winning first-class history
honors.
Back in Maoriland after three years
in England and Germany, Dr. Owen
Thomas, who won a Beit Memorial Fel-
lowship while lecturing at Otago Medical
School on anatomy. Assisted by a fellow-
countryman, Dr. J. Berry, Thomas set
out to locate the German phasen-contrast
microscope that had been hidden in Ger-
many during the war. The quest was suc-
cessful, and the instrument was handed
over to the British authorities. One of
an improved pattern is now at Oxford,
and there are hopes that it will consider-
ably enlarge knowledge of body tissues.
McKell, G.-G., after tapping Donald
George Bradman, Esq., lightly on each
shoulder with an infantry sword, said
the “Arise, Sir Donald,” and then
seized him by the hand and added,
“Congratulations.” Australia’s first
cricket knight received his accolade be-
tween two elderly University knights —
John Behan, Warden of Trinity for 28
years, and Chancellor Charles Lowe,
both tall men.
It would be interesting to know just
how the experts assess in sterling an in-
ventor’s worth. Anyhow, Group-Captain
Whittle earned £lOO,OOO for his jet-
engine; now Captain Edward Terrell,
R.N.V.R., has collected £9500 for his war-
time invention of plastic armor. A mix-
ture of bitumen and stone with a stiffen-
ing of steel, the new armor is said to be
superior, weight for weight, to mild steel
against. penetration of armor-piercing
bullets and bomb-splinters. By the end
of the war several thousands of ships had
had their vulnerables —bridges, control-
towers, gun positions, etc. —sheathed by
Terrell. A London barrister, he joined
the R.N.V.R. as a lieutenant in 1940, and
four years later had a captain’s four rings
on his sleeve.
“El Verdugo’s” long-distance view;
The Court in the Privy Council appeal is
cosmopolitan enough. Baron Porter, the chair-
man, is English, a soldier of World War I, and
has been a Lord of Appeal since 1938. He is
a Cambridge man. Lord Simonds, on the other
hand, is from Winchester and its Oxford
opposite number, New College. He took a
brilliant first-class degree and was formerly a
Judge in Chancery. Lord Uthwatt hails from
Ballarat (Vic.). He attended Ballarat College
before going to Oxford, where he was a
Vinerian scholar. He was chairman of most
of the British War Damage and Rehabilitation
Commissions after World War 11. His brother,
also an Australian, is an archdeacon —once of
the Solomon Islands, now of Huntingdon.
Lord Du Parcq is a Jersey man, a Lord Justice
of Appeal for many years and recently chair-
man of the British Royal Commission on J.Ps.
Lord Normand was formerly Lord Justice
General of Scotland and is president of the
Scottish Classical Association. He served in
World War I with the R.E. Lord Morton won
an M.C. with the Highland Light Infantry.
Finally* Lord MacDermott comes from Northern
Ireland, a staunch Ulsterman with a stem
Orange background ; he was once his Do-
minion’s Attorney-General. If they are like
the average run of P.C. Law Lords they are
all carelessly clad and sometimes sit on each
other’s hats.
A 12-year research job has ended for
Professor Alexander McDonald, with the
completion of hi's Oxford Text of Livy.
A Maorilander, he has held the chair of
Ancient World History at Sydney Uni.
since 1945, and is a Cambridge man, with
a spell at Gottingen University, Germany.
Last week he returned to Sydney after
a year’s final digging into eleventh-
century MSS. in Europe and England,
some of which modern scholars had never
sighted.
More March literary days:
Poet P. E. Quinn, brother of Roderic Quinn,
made his world-debut in 1862, on the 17th.
Born on the 18th, novelists Bernard Cronin
C Bracken, The Sow’s Ear, etc.), in 1884, and
William Hatfield ( Sheepmates, Ginger Mur-
doch, etc.), in 1892. On the 20th, poet
Arthur Bayldon ( Lays and Lyrics, The
Western Track, etc.) will be 84, John Armour
{Spell of the Inland ), 60, and Bulletin writer
Cecil Mann {The River and Light in the
Valley), 53. Also on the 20th, three years ago,
Henry Handel Richardson {The Fortunes of
Richard Mahony) died. Sixteen years ago,
on the 21st, fourth Bulletin editor (1902-15)
James Edmond {A Journalist and Two Bears )
died. Also died on the 21st, writer of historical
fiction William Gosse Hay {The Escape of Sir
William Heans, etc.). Born on the 21st, in
1866, J. S. Ryan, “Narranghi Boori” to old-
time Bulletin readers. Humorist Ernest
O’Ferrall (“Kodak”), whose “The Lobster and
the Lioness” is an Australian classic, died on
the 22nd, twenty-four years ago. Born on the
23rd, in 1885, novelist Roy Bridges, and on
the 24th, poetess Enid Derham. Born on the
26th, Barcroft Boake {Where the Dead Men
Lie), surveyor, boundary-rider and poet, in
1866; Harry Gullett, war historian and Federal
politician, in 1878; and Alexander Sutherland
(author with H. J. Turner of The Development
of Australian Literature) in 1852. Also on the
26th, in 1940, died Catherine Langloh Parker,
teller of aboriginal legends, Mrs. Campbell
Praed, first Australian-born novelist of import-
ance, was born on the 27th, in 1851; also born
on the 27th, in 1901, poet Kenneth Slessor.
Passed on in England on the 27th, in
1921, playwright Charles Haddon Chambers.
Naturalist Alex Chisholm, editor of proposed
revised edition of The Australian Encyclo-
paedia, was born in 1890, on the 28th. Born
in 1859, on the 29th, eminent classic scholar
T. J. Tucker, and died on the 31st, in 1927,
poet John Bernard O’Hara.
Squadron-leader S. J. Nichol served in
England as a navigator with 10 Squadron
Sunderlands in the eventful years 1939-42
—an original member of it—and, having
been at La Rochelle and Bordeaux in the
battle for France, and in and out of
Gibraltar, the Middle East and Malta
while those spots endured their visits from
the Luftwaffe, he may fairly claim to
DUKE’S NAVIGATOR.
have had a fair share of hostile hard-
ware flung at him. It remained, how-
ever, for the Japs to throw in the kitchen-
sink —or something not unlike it. After
Nichol returned to Australia he went to
82 Wing (Liberators) at Darwin and was
in the raid on the Siman power-station
in Java and sundry other shows to the
north, In a recce run over Bima
in Sumbawa his aircraft was welcomed
by a Zero which, for some reason as
yet unrecorded, attacked the Lib. by
dropping a length of heavy chain on it
—it missed by a couple of links. De-
spite his modest estimation of his own
abilities, Nichol was rated a sufficiently
good navigator to be posted from 82
Wing to the Duke of Gloucester’s York,
Endeavor, when the Duke was G.-G. in
these parts. He went home to England
with the flight and put in some good
work at the Empire Air Navigation
Schobl; later he was invited to the
Gloucesters’ Barmwell Manor near Ket-
tering in Northampton, and found their
hosting charming and natural. Nichol
is at present Senior Control Officer at
R.A.A.F. Eastern Area H.Q., Bradfield
Park, Sydney, where Dubois did this
bit of pen work.
To 29-year-old Anthony Nutting,
youngest member of the Commons, now
on a brief visit to Australia, things have
just happened. Passed equal top into
Eton, his Army career began as a trooper
and ended, with three broken ribs, still
a trooper. He got a job in the diplomatic
service in Paris, and when that city fell
he pinched a bike and followed the
French to Bordeaux, escaping in a sar-
COMMONS’ YOUNGEST .
dine-boat to England. His landing was
the occasion for birth of a now-famous
example of Cockney humor when he
asked a bus-driver, “How do you like
the look of things now?” “Thank Gawd,”
retorted the bussie, “we’re playing the
final on the Home ground!” Nutting
made his acquaintance with V-2s, crossed
swords with Franco in helping p.-0.-w.
across the Pyrenees, but discloses nothing
of the Resistance Movement. He then
became secretary to Anthony Eden and
got into the Commons via the safe seat
of Melton Mowbray, Penetrate his
veneer of devil-may-care and you find
a sensitive, serious-minded personality
with a brain that snaps into action.
The assigned police job of First-
Constable Tom Cunningham, of Mel-
bourne’s Traffic Branch, is waiting with
his camera on Oliver’s Hill, Frankston
(Vic.), for a motorist to go on the wrong
side of the double-line there; next step
is producing the camera’s proof in
court. Last week Cunningham, reading
a Melbourne daily’s instalment of Chur-
chill’s memoirs, was surprised to find that
photographer Frank Hurley had done
the same with him. Hurley’s candid
camera, snapping under shellfire, shows
Cunningham talking to an Itie p.-0.-w.
outside Tobruk, just before that port fell
to the Australians. Like his motoring
victims, Cunningham had been an un-
witting model.
Two Bananalanders relieve each other
as G.O.C. Southern Command. Lt.-Gen.
Cyril Clowes, retiring, was bom at War-
wick ; Lt.-Gen. Allan Boase, succeeding,
hails from Gympie; and both landed
at Anzac Cove. Clowes came out of
World War I with D. 5.0., M.C. and two
“mentions,” and in the next scrap com-
manded the First Australian Corps in
the Middle East before giving the Japs
their first New Guinea thrashing'with the
Eleventh Division at Milne Bay. Boase,
wounded at Gallipoli, was in Poona just
before the second outbreak, and after
Middle East fighting with the Seventh
Division, which collected him a C.8.E.,
he came half-way home to command all
Australian troops in Ceylon. Then, in
1943, he took over Clowes’s Eleventh
Division in New Guinea. After the cease-
fire both officers had home commands,
Clowes the Southern (Vic., S.A. and
Tasmania) and Boase, before going to
London as Australia’s Army rep., the
Western (Westralia).
Sidney Sewell, who passed on in Mel-
bourne the other day, stood high among
Aus. medicos. Indefatigable in the chief
plank of his platform, compulsory X-ray-
ing of everyone in the community—as was
done in World War II when he was a
member of the R.A.A.F. Research Com-
mittee—at the end he was working on
a plan for special training of nurses in
t.b. treatment and the establishment of
sanatoria. His criticism of governmental
and private apathy was largely instru-
mental in waking officialdom up to the
menace. Born in Ballarat, and a Mel-
bourne Uni, graduate, he knew the Mayo
family in America personally, and last
year visited the world-recognised - Mayo
Clinic at Rochester to study its latest re-
searches into the early diagnosis of lung
cancer. He was" a Fellow of the Royal
College of Physicians, a past-president of
the Australian counterpart of that body,
and his Friesian-stud farm at Berwick
(Vic.) was known throughout Australia.
About a fortnight before the end the
Government decided to honor him by
naming a unit-of the proposed Watsonia
t.b. clinic after him. He was 69,
Into the Silence:
At Murwillumbah (N.S.W.), Les McNeil, one
of the best teachers of the Noble Art the North
has had. In that line of sport he departed
from his father, Angus McNeil, of Kempsey,
on the Macleay River —Angus was a cup-winner
on the bikes, a great shot and a really won-
derful teacher of pointers and other gun-dogs.
Les, a photographer in the main town on the
top river of the North Coast, taught every good
fighter that part has produced over many years.
In Sydney, at 65, Stanley McKellar White,
president of the N.S.W. Taxpayers’ Association
since 1931. He was well fitted for the job,
having,joined the Federal Taxation Department
in 1911, become secretary to the Commissioner
in 1916, and then deputy to that post himself
in successive years in Sydney, Adelaide and
Brisbane. In 1921 he set up as a private tax
consultant in Sydney.
At Seacliff (M.L.), at 70, Wiremu Teihoka
Parata, better known as “Ned” Parata. Son
of Tame Parata, M.L.C., he was a member of
the South Island Maori Trust Board, and a great
athlete. He managed the Maori Rugby teams
that toured Australia four times between 1910
and 1923, as well as the team that played
England and France in 1926.
At Warwick (Q.), at 88, Timothy Mahony,
father of three police-officers. One is an in-
spector at Townsville, another a detective-
sergeant in Brisbane and the third a sergeant
at Gin Gin.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Very impressive with his deep-set dark
eyes and his clear, well-modulated speak-
ing voice. Dr. Robert Scot Skirving, 94,
gave the night’s oration, his subject that
great surgeon and his lifelong friend
Alexander MacCormick, in the Great
Hall of Sydney University last Wednes-
day night. This is an annual function
arranged, by the post-graduate committee
in medicine in the University. Judging
the oration, if Dr. Scot Skirving
hadn’t given all his energies to medicine
he would have been a great writer, per-
haps as famous as Sir Conan Doyle, who
was a student with him and Alexander
MacCormick in their Edinburgh days. It
wasn’t the usual oration built up on piles
of dry-as-dust facts. He clothed the
skeleton of fact with the flesh of a lively
spirit of fancy and the warm touch of
friendship, so that one saw the brilliant
surgeon as a likeable chap with a fond-
ness of small ships and the sailing of them
which was shared by the speaker.
In the early, far-off days of his begin-
nings Dr. MacCormick had no premoni-
tion of the great wealth and fame that
were to be his. One day, speaking in con-
fidence to Dr. Scot Skirving, he said “How
happy I could be if I were sure of 20
beds in Prince Alfred and £3OO a year!”
Dominating the dais behind the speaker
was the portrait of Alexander Mac-
Cormick in his scarlet robes.
Col. A. M. Mclntosh, chairman of the
committee, received the guests, of whom
there were about 800—the men all
members of the medical profession, many
of them accompanied by their wives.
Among them were the Chancellor of the
University, Sir Charles Bickerton Black-
bum ; the Vice-Chancellor, Professor
S. H. Roberts, and Mrs, Roberts; the
Dean of the Faculty of Medicine, Pro-
fessor Harold Dew, and Mrs. Dew; Mr.
Justice Sugerman, his wife and son; Dr.
Alex Johnson and Mrs. Johnson ; Dr. and
Mrs. Yeates, her frock a gold shimmer in
the dignified gloom of the Great Hall
One of the few women in academic gown-
and-mortarboard was Mrs. Bateman,
who accompanied her husband, Dr, Tom
Bateman.
The season was autumn, but the
weather was summer at Randwick last
Wednesday. The women revelled in this
mid-week A.J.C. meeting and grabbed
the chance of wearing the large hat, the
slinky, silky summer frocks so long put
by because of dull days. Navy-and-white
stripes navy-and-white spots popped into
the day’s color-scheme, and they looked
smart and cool, Mrs. Strath Playfair,
Whose husband’s horse Retinue had a
win, wore with her navy-and-white-
striped silks a wide white straw hat. A
hat brimming with romance was Mrs.
Clive Carney’s fine white straw trimmed
with white roses. Mrs. Bill Camplin was
smart in brown-and-white linens. Mrs.
Anthony Hordern, jnr., was one of the
day’s many wearers of white.
An Australian artist, Bessie Gibson,
who has spent more than 25 years in
Paris, is showing a collection of oils and
watercolors in the Grosvenor Galleries.
The show was opened last week by M,
Jean Ortole, Vice-Consul for France,
who was also the first buyer. The galleries
were crowded with old friends and lovers
of Paris, “Notre Dame” and the three
different vistas of the Luxembourg
Gardens and the bridge over the Seine
brought rather nostalgic murmurs from
these. The innocence of childhood
breathes from the painting “First Com-
munion.” But to this Letter the delicate
charm of the miniatures made special
appeal. Miss Gibson began her studies
at Casteluchio, and among her early
teachers was Edwin Scott, During the
1939-45 war she closed up her flat in
Paris and went to England. After hos-
tilities ceased she returned and had the
amazing luck to find everything just as
she had left it. Rodney Dangar was
noticed among the beauty-browsers.
There were pdcnic-races in Canberra
last week, and city visitors and the local
squattocracy turned up in numbers at
Acton course. Ambassadors, and members
of Parliament were there, too. All in the
open—such a nice change for them.
Members of Parliament viewed the races
reflectively, thinking of the preliminary
election canters they themselves are fac-
ing. Any of them with a doubtful seat
could envy Owen Merriman, of Yass,
who rode four winners, and was awarded
the riding-whip for the most successful
jockey. The Governor-General and Mrs.
McKell were at the meeting.
Romance was in the air. A romantic
setting for a romantic wedding-frock
was the illuminated gardens of Ran-
cliff, formerly one of Sydney’s old homes,
where Mr. and Mrs, John Minter held
their wedding celebrations. The bride
was Patricia Marsland, a daughter of the
George Marslands, of Vaucluse, and no
bridal array lovelier than her heirloom
Limerick lace veil and the billowing
layers of tulle which formed her rose-
white frock has been seen in St. Mark’s
at Darling Point. The frock had a
bouffant skirt, the low-necked bodice
with its long sleeves was of white satin.
White organdie and broderie Anglaise
made the frocks of bride’s attendants
Judith Marsland, Mrs. Robert Minter
and Mrs. Ben Wall. Bride’s father and
mother received in the drawing-room, at
Rancliff. Here lights twinkled in the
trees under which small tables were set.
There was dancing on the verandah, and
there was a moon like an enormous
silver platter in the sky. The bridegroom
is the eldest son of the Clifford Minters
of Rose Bay and Kahlua station, Coolac.
Ballet-lovers throughout Australia will
grieve over the death of Madame Judith
Espinosa. This vivacious little member
of the English family world-famed in
ballet visited Australia a little more than
a year ago, representing the Royal
Academy of Dancing, London.
From Norton Trevaire comes this pic-
ture of Diana Calder, who is busy work-
ing for the success of the Old Sydneians
ball, which will take place at the
Trocadero on April 5.
Rancliff, Ocean-street, Woollahra, was
the setting for the Victoria League’s party
to Mr. and Mrs. Edward Lumley, of
London. These overseas visitors were
already known to many of the guests, for
Mr. Lumley is a member of the Central
Executive of the V.L., whilst Mrs. Lumley
is a member of the hospitality committee
which extends such friendly greetings to
visitors from the Dominions. Secretary
Beulah Bolton saw to the smooth work-
ing of all things. The hostesses were the
King lady, Mrs. D. Moore, Mrs. Clive
Teece arid Mrs. McNall. The party was a
really successful 5.30 to 7, and many of
the guests were rounding off the sunniest
day for weeks after an outing at Rand-
wick. Edward Lumley is in Australia
representing the world-famous Lloyd’s of
London, Mrs. Lumley is a super-frocker ;
in fact, her clothes are A 1 at Lloyd’s.
Pianist Hilda Mawby, wife of barrister
Anthony Mawby, sailed for England in
the Stratheden, Hilda is that Heaven’s
own gift to singers, a talented and sen-
sitive accompanist. When she arrives in
London she will be greeted by a little
company of Sydney vocalists, including
Newton Goodson and Reg Willoughby,
for whom she has often played. Last week
many musicians of this city gathered in
the Lyceum Club to farewell this traveller.
Of course, they did it with song and
music, but one guest, Iney Marden, re-
cited a poem which she had written for
the occasion. Among the hostesses was
Mrs. F. Taylor, whose sweeping black
lace evening frock crescendoed to a stole
as glittersome with sequins as a Blue-
Mountain night is with stars. Others
who received the guests were singer Alice
Prowse, Mrs. Rose Shanks, Mrs. Lorenz
and Mrs. Allen Williams. The guest,
whose frock of greeny chiffons was long
and full, made a graceful speech in
acknowledgment of several farewell gifts.
Organist Lilian Frost, who has played
for congregations in the - Pitt-street Con-
gregational Church since she was a girl,
flew back to her home town, Launceston,
last week after a short visit to Sydney,
where she has lived for many years.
Miss Frost, who is still suffering from the
effects of an accident which she had in
Launceston several months ago, was not
allowed to leave without a send-off from
her admirers in the Pitt-street Congre-
gational Church. Crowds of these old
friends came to the Bible House in
Bathurst-street, where the party was held,
and Lilian received an ovation as, in
spite of her injury, she played the accom-
paniment for singer Elsie Finlay. The
Rev. Watson and Faunce Allman were
the night’s speakers, but many other
warm and friendly words accompanied
the presentation of farewell gifts.
Campion Hall, Point Piper, Riverview’s
Preparatory School, will benefit from the
War Memorial Ball to be held at the
Trocadero on Monday, April 4. This is
being organised by Riverview Old Boys’
Union, of which J. A. Sullivan is presi-
dent. He is also president of the ball com-
mittee. Patricia Hayes, president of the
younger set, Mary Mayo, secretary, and
Beverley Coombes, treasurer, are work-
ing hard in the cause.
From Melbourne
Premier Hollway and Lord Mayor
Disney shared the honors in opening the
Australian Industrial Fair at the Exhibi-
tion, proceeds of which are for the Red
Cross Appeal. Mrs. Hollway, smart in
navy and white frock and navy-trimmed
hat, accompanied her husband. Mrs.
Isobel Green contrasted her black frock
with touches of powder-blue, which
trimmed her navy hat. Mrs. T. W. White,
representing the Red Cross, wore an
ensemble of Chartreuse wool and a
matching hat. Another well-known Red
Cross worker, Mrs. Eccles McKay, added
a matching felt hat to her grey flannel suit.
One of the smart dressers at the open-
ing concert of those remarkably facile
duo-pianists, Maryon Rawicz and Walter
Landauer, was Mrs. Con Charlton, wife
of the Victorian manager of the A.B.C.
Her black satin frock carried a striking
floral design, and a high comb in her
hair was in the Spanish tradition. Mrs.
Garnet Carroll’s silver lame gown had a
low neckline and very wide skirt. She
was with Mrs. Frank Martin, whose slim
black crepe skirt was allied to a sequin-
embroidered tunic top. Betty Marron,
who was accompanied by her fiance, Dr.
Frank Mulcahy, and her sister Anne,
wore a full-length grey squirrel coat over
her emerald-green cocktail frock. Eng-
lish visitor Elizabeth Lewis wore a
floral frock under a Scotch mole coat.
The Lord Mayor, Cr. J. S, Disney, and
Mrs. Disney entertained councillors and
their wives at His Majesty’s and later at
supper in the Town Hall reception-rooms,
where they were joined by the principals
of the “Oklahoma” cast. The skirt of
Mrs. Disney’s brown faille gown was
drawn into a bustle. Long gloves of the
same material as the gown gave a smart
touch. The Wales lady’s slim-fitting
floral gown was worn with a shoulder-
cape of dyed-ermine. Mrs. George Hume’s
gown of black crepe was trimmed with
steel beads. Rhinestones glittered on the
bodice of the royal-blue crepe gown worn
by Mrs. Robert Solly. Mrs. E. L.
Morton’s gown was of floral satin. Mrs.
A. E. Carlyle set off her midnight-blue
crepes with a yoke in pastel blue, and
added to it trimmings of royal-blue
sequins. Mrs, Fred Hardy’s black taffeta
gown carried narrow bands of white
flowers. Alma Pedersen added a small
blue straw cloque hat trimmed with
mauve flowers to her gown of powder-
blue crepe.
The subject of this Athol Shmith photo,
is Parisienne Maryvonne Evrart, whose
expert knowledge of corsetry is put to
good use in the Melbourne salon of J.
Roussel of Paris, Having lived through
the grim days of the German occu-
pation Maryvonne, who was educated
in a Paris convent, speaks English with
a charming accent and is very chic and
vivacious, regards Australia as a Paradise
in which to live. Her mother, Madame
Vanlierde, also on the staff of J, Roussel,
came with her.
Mrs. W. K. Burnside, whose husband
is president of Prince Henry’s Hospital,
opened a parade at Menzies’ of autumn
models designed by Herta Maria
Neuhaus, A grey felt cloche hat with a
trimming of matching feathers made neat
complement to Mrs. Burnside’s bolero
suit of rust-toned wool. . Stella Palfrey,
president of the Central Council of Auxi-
liaries to the hospital, was present with
Matron A. H. Morgan. Among the on-
lookers were Mrs. W. Cook, in a black
georgette frock and large black rose-
trimmed tulle hat; Mrs. H. Sellars, one
long pastel-blue ostrich-feather trimming
her small black hat, which was worn with
a black ensemble; Mrs, Dermot Con-
nelly, in a white-spotted navy frock;
Mrs, W. Baker, blue and white prints
her choice; and Mrs. A. G. Warner, in
florals and plain white straw hat. Pro-
ceeds of the parade were for the hospital.
At Peter Russell’s fashion exhibition
held at George’s, the gala premiere of
which helped along the funds of the
Children’s Hospital by £llOO, the accent
is on elegance. This English designer’s
tailored suits are perfection. His London
and Country ensembles, with tailored
frock and matching coat, will appeal to
Australian women. The jackets have the
long-waisted effect, and shoulders are not
more than Sin. wide. Skirts are mostly
pencil-slim and from 14in. to 16in. from
the ground. Some of the skirts are quite
plain ; others have a slit at back or front,
others again are straight in front with a
pleat at the centre back. To his check
topcoats Peter Russell adds shoes, the
uppers of which match the check of the
the coat. New colors are gardenia-green.
Tudor-rose, wistaria, red-amethyst and
blue-raspberry. He likes dull blues, dull
greens and dull violets in shot taffetas,
which he uses for evening fashions. On
his topcoats Peter uses the shawl collar;
shapes them at the waist, with gently-
flaring skirts. Occasionally he uses the
half-belt across the back. For the “diner
out” there is a dashing long coa't in black
wool lined with caramel velvet which is
revealed in the deep shawl collar. Under-
neath this a black woollen dress is allied
with black moire, a hat of black moire
with caramel velvet completing the picture.
A dramatic Tudor-rose taffeta gown
swirls into rustling folds under a little
full-hip jacket which has the embroidery
picked out with gleaming paiHc ;:es. The
same embroidery fashions the delightful
little Juliet cap. For grand occasions
there is a grey-pink Florentine brocade
with paillettes outlining the embroidery
in whole panels of the skirt; from this
wide-skirted embroidered gown broad
shoulder-pieces, which continue to the
waist at the back, are also embroidered
in paillettes. Lasting impressions of the
collection are; bronze shoes for cocktail
and evening occasions are smart; bags
carried with tweed suits are fashioned of
matching tweed ; dipping hemlines, modi-
fied to suit the occasion, are very new ;
and blue and canary-yellow for a bridal
retinue can be unusually attractive.
Bride-to-be Betty Jones was guest-of-
honor at a shower-tea given by Mrs. J.
E. Shilliday and her daughter Wanda.
Betty wore a long-waisted navy suit, the
jacket of which was decorated with tiny
ivory figures ; her hat was of white straw
veiled with navy. Mrs, Shilliday’s frock
was of black crepe, the bodice high-
lighted with a shawl collar, the pencil-
slim skirt broken with a finely-pleated
frill, just below the knee. Wanda’s pale-
lemon silk-jersey frock was worn with
black belt and accessories. Mrs. Keith
Veall’s silk-jersey was in pale-primrose
tonings. Mrs. Norman Bennett’s grey
flannel suit was topped with a grey
felt cloche hat edged with crimson
velvet. Mrs. F. Cardan’s tailored frock
was of black crepe ; her daughter Berna-
dette wore a pale-green frock patterned
with brown. Gloria Ladd trimmed her
black frock with cream lace ruffles; a
dusty-pink felt cloche hat made effective
contrast. Mrs. Bruce Cornish wore a
black ensemble, Louise Jones’s suit was
grey. Touches of blue in the black hat
worn by Dot Kirwan offset her black
suit. A blue-and-cyclamen hat and black
suit formed a trig outfit for Trixie Farey.
Suits and coats in muted shades of
green, grey, brown and red were popular
at Flemington on the last day of the
autumn meeting. Mrs. Harold Holt’s
full-skirted frock was of dove-grey duve-
tyn. Mrs. lan Bayles’s brown-and-yellow
herringbone tweed suit was worn with
a small brown hat tied under her chin
with veiling. Mrs. Frank Herman’s wide,
swinging coat, of brick-red cloth, featured
large saddle pockets. Mrs. T. C. Mani-
fold, wife of the V.R.C. vice-chairman,
added a matching hat to her tailored suit
of navy, which had touches of velvet on
the collar. Her daughter Ma / sported a
tailored suit of aqua-blue tweed and a
pixie beret to match. A mink coat
covered Mrs. John Kaufman’s brick-red
crepe frock. The Hyde lady’s ensemble
was of soft beige. Mrs. John Grim-
wade’s jacket suit was of grege lightweight
wool. The grey coat worn by Mrs.
Rupert Downes had a nipped-in waist and
wide, flaring skirt. Mrs. Harold Herbert
was in burgundy-and-blue checks.
Kathleen Pappadakis wore a royal-blue
jacket-suit and matching hat. Mrs. E.
Phillips’s tweeds were silver-grey. Mrs,
David Harlem’s black hat flew pale-pink
ospreys. A pale-gold felt hat trimmed
with black ospreys was worn with Mrs.
B. Forsyth’s black frock.


d?
f m
mmm
Sk®4 X
smowl
mm
m
You can taste
the extra flavour
"“A . /'
in 535 Virginia
cigarettes’’
am'
M
m
THE SECRET’S IN
w
THE 333’s BLEjND
■STATE
EXPRESS J 33
—.always please
7«7Dtt4S
THE SERVICE MAN
Atlantic Pact v.
Communist "Peace."
“Ek Dum”: The Atlantic
Pact has been agreed to in final
form and serves notice on
Russia, and any satellite
aggressor, either in * cold or hot
war, that the Western nations
mean business.
The fact that the United States
and Canada have come in whole-
heartedly and that Washington is
to be the seat of the Pact shows
how serious the position is con-
sidered in those countries. The
United States entry is governed
by the technicality that entry
into defensive war shall not be
automatic ; but this is a measure
of necessity rather than of choice
in view of " the fact that the
United States Constitution re-
quires that declaration of war
is the prerogative of Congress.
It must be agreed to by a two-
thirds majority. Treaties also
require the Senate’s approval.
However, the limitation is
only technical. There will be
little doubt about prompt action
if there is any advance by
Russia westward, and there is
little doubt about there being a
really united front. What makes
the matter even more important
is that, in view of the interlock-
ing relationships between the
United States and most of the
South American Republics, and
those between Britain and
Middle Eastern States, it needs
only some aggressive action to
take place to add to the
Atlantic Pact a West-Asian and
Mediterranean and African Pact.
One effect which the signing
of the pact will have will be to
greatly diminish the importance
of U.N.O. and to highlight its
futility and failure. It might
even cause its death, because it is
difficult to see an arrangement
in which the four big Powers
of the West —Britain, the United
States, France and Canada —are
involved, worrying for long
about the duplicate machinery of
a world convention in which
every move of importance to
peace and world safety is check-
mated by Russia’s use of the
veto.
After three years the U.N.O.
organisation has provided no-
thing more than a stage on which
small and noisy fry like Dr.
Evatt can make themselves
appear large against a well-lit
and* expensive backdrop. No
nation under the United Nations
scheme has felt anything but a
bit more insecure than before
the extravagant and empty body
was born. And though the
Atlantic Pact envisages the re-
porting of substantive action to
the Security Council, any move
worth reporting would obviously
destroy that body.
About the Atlantic Pact there
can be little doubt. The very
resistance of the U.S.S.R. and its
Communist satellites to it shows
its incipient strength and the
assurance that it is regarded in
Washington as a measure to safe-
guard the Marshall Plan and to
prevent interference with its
function in Western Europe.
The Western countries already
know the value of Marshall aid,
and have the evidence of it in
the tremendous strides which
they have made with recovery
since it was mooted and even
before it came fully into opera-
tion.
The President of the United
States is expected to send to Con-
gress a £300,000,000 plan to help
in the rearming of Western
Europe.
Two Ideals of Peace
The Pact consists of 13
Articles. The preamble pays
service to the Charter of the
United Nations and to the signa-
tories’ desire to live in peace
with the world. It is a genuine
desire without the reservation
which distinguishes Russian
propaganda. As with every-
thing else in Russian expression
the words “for peace” mean in
Moscow language something dif-
ferent to what they mean in
Western language. They mean
peace in which Communism has
established world supremacy
and in which there can be no
resistance.
According to the “Programme
of the Communist International,”
as issued by the Australian
Communist party and as formu-
lated in Moscow by the Small
Bureau of the Comintern
dominated by members of the
Russian Polit-Bureau, of which
Stalin was the head at the time,
the programme of Russian and
World Communism is “the pro-
gramme of the struggle for
World Proletarian Dictatorship,
the programme of struggle for
World Communism.” It “ex-
poses mercilessly all forms of
the doctrine of ‘class peace.’ ”
The manifesto declares that
the world is split into two
fundamentally hostile camps—
“the camp of the imperialists”
(i.e., countries such as those
which have joined the Atlantic
Pact) “and the camp of the
dictatorship of the proletariat
and the U.S.S.R.” And it
preaches—and Stalin himself
preaches in the lectures which
are used as the basic text-book
in all Communist training-
schools —that “the world dicta-
torship of the proletariat can
be established only when the
victory of Socialism has been
achieved in certain countries or
groups of countries; when the
newly - established proletarian
republics enter into a Federal
union with the already existing
proletarian republics ; when the
number of such federations has
grown and extended also to the
colonies which have emanci-
pated themselves from the yoke
of imperialism; when these
federations of the republics have
finally grown into a world union
of Socialist Soviet Republics,
uniting the whole of mankind
under the hegemony of the in-
ternational proletariat organised
as a State.”
No “Peace” But by
Communist Victory
Moreover, it holds that there
can be no peace internally be-
tween Communists and Capi-
talism :
The conquest of power by the
proletariat does not mean peacefully
“capturing” ready-made bourgeois
State machinery by means of a Par-
liamentary majority. The bourgeoisie
resorts to every means of violence
and terror to safeguard and strengthen
its predatory property and its poli-
tical domination. Like the feudal
nobility of the past, the bourgeoisie
cannot abandon its historical position
to the new class without a desperate
and frantic struggle. Hence the
violence of the bourgeoisie can be
suppressed only by stern violence of
the proletariat. The conquest of
power by the proletariat is the violent
overthrow of bourgeois power, the
destruction of the capitalist State
apparatus (bourgeois armies, police,
bureaucratic hierarchy, the judiciary,
Parliaments, etc.), and the substitu-
tion in its place of new organs of
proletarian power to serve primarily
as instruments for the suppression of
the exploiters.
Thus, under the Russian and
Communist programme—which
is framed by Russians—there
can be no peace till all nations
are one under Moscow’s rule,
and there can be no unity of
nations until existing systems are
overthrown and every class but
that class which knuckles down
under ruthless Communist rule
is wiped out —literally.
As is also explained, the Soviet
State “completely disarms the
bourgeoisie and concentrates all
arms in the hands of the prole-
tariat ; it is the armed prole-
tarian State.” And any resist-
ance to the proletarian armed
forces, whether when they have
achieved Statehood or are only
in process of insurrection, is
aggression.
The “Centre of Revolution”
Moreover, it is an axiom,
“recognised by the manifesto,”
that th§ “internal consolidation
of the proletarian distatorship in
the U.S.S.R., the success
achieved in the work of socialist
construction, the growth of the
influence of the U.S.S.R. among
the masses of the proletariat and
the oppressed peoples of the
colonies, signify the continua-
tion, intensification and expan-
sion of the international social
revolution.... .the U.S.S.R. in-
evitably becomes the base of the
world movement of all oppressed
classes, the centre of interna-
tional revolution, the greatest
factor in world history. In the
U.S.S.R. the world proletariat
for the first time acquires a
country that is really its own,
and for the colonial movements
the U.S.S.R. becomes a powerful
centre of attraction.... .She is the
international driving-force of
proletarian revolution that im-
pels the proletariat of all coun-
tries to seize power.”
It is set out:
In the event of the imperialist
States declaring war upon and attack-
ing the U.S.S.R. the international
proletariat must retaliate by organis-
ing bold and determined mass action
and struggle for the overthrow of the
imperialist Governments with the
slogan “Dictatorship of the pro-
letariat and alliance with the U.S.S.R.”
This is quoted, it will be noted,
from a document of the Aus-
tralian Communist party, the first
edition of which was published
when the Sharkey-Miles-Dixon
regime took over under Moscow
authority. It was subscribed to
at that time not only by members
of the Australian Communist
party, but by many who are now
high up in the Australian Labor
party.
And it is also subscribed to by
every Communist everywhere, a
strong indication of what the
Western nations are faced with
and how necessary is their new
combination.
The Atlantic Concept
The Atlantic Pact, by contrast
with the Communist Plan, pro-
vides for the settlement of dis-
putes between its members and
others by peaceful means. Its
signatories agree to refrain
from force and threat of
force. It provides for the de-
velopment of free institutions
and a better understanding be-
tween peoples. It provides for
effective self-help and mutual aid
to develop individual and col-
lective capacity in Atlantic areas
to resist armed attack. It pro-
vides for a mutual decision as to
whether the territorial integrity
or independence or security of
any member is threatened. An
attack on one will ba considered
an attack on all, which shall be
followed by requisite measures
of defence.
Australia Outside the Pale
One provision is of interest to
Australia:
ARTICLE 6: For the purpose of
Article 5, an armed attack on one or
more of the parties is deemed to
include an armed attack on the terri-
tory of any of the parties in Europe
or North America, on the Algerian
Departments of'France, on the Occu-
pation forces of any party in Europe,
on the islands under the jurisdiction
of any party in the North Atlantic
area north of the Tropic of Cancer,
or on the vessels or the aircraft in
this area of any of the parties.
In other words, no country in-
volved is bound to come to the
assistance of Australia or any
member of Dr. Evatt’s South-
East Asian bloc. The treaties
are for 20 years, with review
after 10 years.
It comes into force upon sig-
nature of the majority of the
original members —U.S., Canada,
Britain, France, Belgium, Neth-
erlands, Luxemburg and the
originals may invite other nations
of the area to join.
Norway, Portugal, Italy, Den-
mark, Iceland already have
official invitations.
The original nations will sign
on April 4.
Australia’s position is a sad
one. It has aligned itself with the
broken-down South-East Asian
group—lndia dithering on the
edge of complete independence,
and in case of attack could not
fight for five minutes; Ceylon,
whose Government has just lent
moral support to Hungary by
advertising the fact that it is on
the best of terms with that
country; Israel, which the
A.B.C.’s commentator describes
as a “great Power”—unbeliev-
able but so—and against which
he seems to believe that Britain
is committing an aggression at
Akaba; Burma, of which the
centre is now in Communist
hands, and the rest of the sorry
boiling of distracted and writh-
ing peoples.
Mr. Chifley says that talks are
under way for a Pacific Pact “on
a service level.” It is clear that
our horrible isolation is due to
the initiative of Australia and
New Zealand, which took the
lead in urging a regional de-
fence pact or group in the
Pacific Indian Ocean region.
Every measure here is gov-
erned by the obsession of Can-
berra’s Ministers for limelight.
In World War 11, when they
did not have even a fighting
division in Australia* and were
frantically yelling their heads off
for help, they demanded the for-
mation of a Pacific Indian Ocean
defence zone with Australia’s
doughty Labor Ministry in com-
mand and control, the other
nations, of course, providing the
bulk of the resources and fight-
ing manpower, since they were
not prepared to send any , man
who didn’t want to go outside the
three-mile limit to meet the Jap-
anese.
The scheme produced nothing
but a few lighter moments in
the higher military committees
which were considering strategy
and tactics of the Pacific War.
The highlight must have been
that period when Messrs. Curtin,
Chifley and Dedman and their
advisers put forward a plan for
sending a few aircraft-carriers,
guarded only by cruisers, by
stealth to Japan and blow
that unfortunate country out of
the water —this was early in 1942,
when Bataan was still besieged
and Rabaul occupied and Singa-
pore in Japanese hands.
The present scheme will pro-
duce no more than the spectacle
of the Ministry shopping for
protection from the Great
Powers whom Dr. Evatt is seek-
ing to discipline through U.N.O.
Security and C.S.I.R.
“Ek Dum”: Two cases have
happened within the week in
which the Federal Government
has been forced by public
opinion to launch prosecutions
against the general secretary of
the Communist party under the
Crimes Act which show how the
wind really blows in the matter
of Communists and security.
One instance related to the
new Shipping Bill. Despite all
efforts by the Opposition, the
Federal Government refused to
exclude Communists from gov-
erning authorities under the new
measure.
It is a staggering fact that
while the Communist party
preaches the destruction of the
British Commonwealth and
world domination by the
U.S.S.R. as the “workers’ only
fatherland,” members of the
Central Committee Communist
party are receiving fat fees as
members of Government
agencies. The Government’s de-
fence that they are the elected
representatives of the unions con-
cerned is feeble, having regard to
the fact that it knew before it
brought down legislation that
Communists would inevitably be
chosen since, when Communists
acquire control of unions, they
see to it that the rank and file
has very little to do with electing
anybody.
Thus, J. Healy, general secre-
tary of the Waterside Workers
Federation, who campaigned
against recruiting in 1940 as
part of the Communist
party’s programme to sup-
port Hitler’s peace cam-
paign, is paid 30s. a day as a
member of the Stevedoring Com-
mission, plus another 30s. a day
travelling expenses when absent
from home. He draws his daily
allowance if he sits only 20
minutes. It was elicited
Lang last year that up to May,
1948, Healy had been paid £lO6O
as fees and expenses in connec-
tion with the commission. He
also received another £6l as
member of the Commonwealth
Handling Equipment Po ° L
E. V. Elliott, general secre-
tary of the Seamen’s Union, is


draw?
''-i;
Try your aptitude for Com*
mercidl Art by submitting, for
free expert criticism, copies of
rest drawings from our presen*
tation booklet, "Art Ability
fk Tests".
&
m
' : s-s; :
/ /' J*
y
W TflA
Commercial Art will appeal to you.
Leading professionals will cheek over your
work, without cost to you. If you have a
flair for drawing .and sketching, there are
quite possibly big opportunities for you
in the Commercial Art world. So write
tonight! The booklet you will receive is
handsomely illustrated and the question-
naire intensely practical.
mg cowom-A/oU/
art training institute,
80 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Please send me your illustrated 32-page
booklet ART ABILITY TESTS. I enclose
Sd. for registered postage.
Name •• •• •• ••
(Mr.. Mrs., or Miss)
Address .. •• m
.. .. .. ~ u «. .. .. State .. .. •• .-.
Bui. 23/3/’49
GLOBITE
TRAVEL CASES
They're lighter, stronger, longer-
lasting. That's why a Globite
costs less in the long run.
Mode by
FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
cv
dj- tfce vend
a
OSSS
v
o
OOQ
□
:
T*!*
□
«
X
THE clownish driver is a crazy driver at any time, and
dangerous to others ... especially dangerous after night parties,
when he is extra clownish.
Crazy driving is his star act. He cuts in and out of traffic.
Stops and turns without giving hand signals. Beats the traffic
lights—or thinks he does, until b £ becomes the EATE
Clown of the Road . r .
When YOU drive, drive the safe way. Observe all traffic
laws and signals. Be careful—Drive wisely, .
DEATH IS SO PERMANENT..
ISSUED BY THE AUSTRALIAN ROAD SAFETY COUNCIL
(Administered by the Commonwealth Department of Transport)
RSV 25.83.29
a member of the Maritime In-
dustry Commission, a concern
which controlled the movements
of ships during the war. The
commission was established
under National Security Regula-
tions. Elliott is also a member
of the Central Committee of the
Communist party. Mr. Lang
traced payments to him of £543
from Consolidated Revenue.
And these two Communist
officials, who are, between them,
dictators of the shipping busi-
ness, are officials of the body
which decides and promulgates
Australian Communist policy,
and of which Sharkey is general
secretary.
In the bill to reorganise the
C.S.I.R. and to provide for the
secrecy of its operation, Mr.
Chifley took a personal hand.
It should be emphasised that
when the matter of the secrecy
of the C.5.1.R., which is fast
becoming a huge excrescence,
was discussed at an earlier
stage, Mr. Dedman claimed
that it was not a defence organ-
isation and that there were no
need for precautions.
Sir David Rivett’s Views
Members of Parliament who
dared to call attention to the fact
that there were Communists, one
convicted of seditious actions,
in key positions in the C.S.I.R.
were attacked both by Ministers
and by Sir David Rivett, whose
views on secrecy were expressed
in an article in the Melbourne
“Herald” some time ago, as men-
tioned last week:
Secrecy can be assured only with
the aid of its unpleasant watchdog,
suspicion. Suspicion of whom, oh
the scientific side? Not only of
foreign, but very soon also of our
owh, laboratory workers, particularly
any of them who may be classed as
politically unorthodox. Witch-hunting
follows; in Russia it has seemingly
reached high intensity. America both
practises and fights valiantly against
it. Britain, as usual, keeps her head.
Canada, too. In Australia we play
our accustomed role of mimic, led
by a few shallow “realists.”
Sir David continued:
We enter the New Year after a
rather discreditable political incident
at Canberra, touching on this general
problem. Hankering for security,
fearful of certain political elements in
the community, profoundly uncon-
scious of applying gross secrecy
measures to scientific research, a little
group of Parliamentarians saw fit last
year to use the C.S.I.R. as an avenue
for the pursuit of rather paltry
political ends.
It must be said that, for a
scientist. Sir David Rivett is
singularly careless about accu-
racy in his statement of facts.
Canada, which he declared had
“kept its head,” keeps a tight
check on the Communist party,
and is just now prosecuting its
general secretary for a treason-
able offence. It had just recently
been forced to send to jail some
Canadian scientists who had
been handing military secrets of
the greatest importance to a
foreign Power. And Britain is
having a thorough purge- of
Communists from the Civil Ser-
vice.
The “paltry political ends” for
which members of Parliament
raised the question of the
C.S.I.R, were to remove from
that body a Communist who had
been convicted of a seditious
offence, one Arthur Rudkin.
Mr. Chifley and Mr. Rudkin
Mr. Chifley, during last week’s
debate on the C.S.I.R. bill,
sheltered behind a casual com-
mendation of the loyalty of Aus-
tralian scientists by Sir Henry
Tizard at a public gathering.
The P.M. said that nobody
could convince anyone anywhere
in the world that any informa-
tion has got out from Australian
scientists, and that “Mr. Harrison
had referred to someone named
Rudkin employed by the C.S.I.R.
Though Mr. Harrison had not
actually said so, he had inferred
that Rudkin had conveyed some
secret information to the Com-
munist party. There was abso-
lutely no proof of that. While
engaged with the C.S.I.R. he
was engaged in experiments with
plywood. What sort of secret
information could he give any-
body about plywood?”
The issue of whether Rudkin
should be employed at all in the
Australian Civil Service was side-
stepped by the Prime Minister.
Rudkin was an official of the
Communist party in Western
Australia early in 1940. He
operated from the party office
from which circulars were issued
conveying instructions from the
Comintern H.Q. in Vienna —in
Hitler’s territory —to sabotage
the Australian war effort. These
documents included treasonable
and abusive attacks on Britain.
Rudkin himself had joined the
A.R.P. warden service, and a cir-
cular written by him was dis-
covered urging officials of Com-
munist branches to join the
warden service also, for the pur-
pose of securing information for
transmission oversea, and —as he
admitted to the magistrate—for
use in disturbances if the oppor-
tunity offered. A letter from
him urging the Communist
party to transmit to the British
Communist party certain infor-
mation which was obtained was
discovered. Also, in the Com-
munist office from which he
operated was discovered a large
quantity of collated military
material, reference to the troops
in it being couched in sneering
and contemptuous language.
Counsel pointed to Rudkin
and his companions in the dock
and said: “Your Worship has
heard a lot about the fifth-
column. There it is,”
Rudkin was convicted and
sentenced to four months’ im-
prisonment. As he left the dock
Communists in court gave the
clenched-fist salute. When the
Solicitor-General afterwards ex-
amined his papers he minuted
them that he could not under-
stand why he had not been in-
dicted instead of being tried
summarily. After his term of
imprisonment finished he was in-
terned. He disappeared from
public view.
“Witch-hunting”
He emerged into the light
again, writing for a curious Mel-
bourne publication called
“Focus,” following the Com-
munist line and supporting the
Communist-p arty propaganda
against the establishment of the
Rocket Range:
The project will undoubtedly lead
to the introduction into Australia of
extravagant secrecy regulations and
witch-hunts among scientists, of the
type which are vitiating scientific re-
search in the United States and Great
Britain, as I pointed out in my article
under “Atomic Crossroads.” The
famous Liberal intellectual Archie
Cameron has already set off on a
preliminary canter with a witch-hunt
directed against the C.5.1.R.-execu-
tive member Don Mountjoy, which,
if successful, will no doubt be ex-
tended to cover all C.S.I.R. employees
suspected of humanitarian leanings.
Don Mountjoy, it is worth while
recalling, sat in the Federal Par-
liament for a term as a “Labor”
member and qualified for the
C.S.I.R. by becoming a defeated
candidate.
Rudkin’s article on the
“Atomic Crossroads” had been
published in October, 1946,
and contained such passages as
this:
Naturally, politicians as dumb as
Truman and Bevin are dumb enough
to try to use compulsion on scientists,
and in an attempt to terrorise them
have imposed heavy jail sentences
on two leading physicists, Dr. Nunn
May and Dr. Charles Boyer, for
carrying on perfectly the normal
scientific activity of discussing their
work with fellow-scientists of a na-
tion to which Mr. Churchill promised
all possible scientific and technical
assistance.
The two scientists named, of
course, were convicted by juries
after trial. They were both
Communists. Both gave their
information having fulfilled
Mr. Chifley’s requirements of
security and taken oaths of
allegiance and secrecy—not to
fellow-scientists but Russian
Military Intelligence. Nunn May
handed Russia virtually all the
secret intelligence available
about the atom-bomb, includ-
ing atomic material, three
months before the attack on
Hiroshima. He received pay-
ment from the Soviet Govern-
ment for this service. He also
handed over the details of the
electrpnic shell which the Ameri-
cans were using against kami-
kazes. . It must be remembered
that at that time Russia was not
at war with Japan and actually
had a non-aggression alliance
with that country.
Truman —“Economic Rub-
bish”
Rudkin concluded his article
by saying;
Scientists are getting tired of chum-
ing out discoveries to be used by
brass-hats, crooked politicians and
mud-brained profiteers for their anti-
social ends, and are itching to get to
grips with the job of making this
earth the paradise it could be.
Present-day trends in the world giye
cause for hope that they will be suc-
cessful; but it would be just as well
if all men of goodwill get in and
help them to clear away the political
and economic rubbish blocking their
way, otherwise most of the nations
tied to Truman’s war chariot will
probably have to be exterminated by
atom-bomb bursts first.
Sir David Rivett calls an
inquiry in Parliament about the
body which employs the
author of this vituperation
“witch-hunting,” and says that
those who made it were involved
in a “discreditable political inci-
dent” which “raises the subject
of morals in public life.” .He
accuses them of having made the
attack in pursuit of “rather paltry
political ends”!
Plywood
And Mr. Chifley seems to think
that a man of Rudkin’s views
is a desirable employee for the
Department of Scientific and In-
dustrial Research, and he wants
to know what information that
would be dangerous to the coun-
try he could disseminate from a
department dealing with ply-
wood.
Regardless of who might dis-
seminate the information, ply-
wood is one of the materials
absolutely vital to the construc-
tion of fast fighting and light-
bomber aircraft. ■ The fuselages
of Mosquitoes, for a time the
fastest aircraft in the world and
one of the biggest factors in the
winning of World War 11, were
plywood—Australian plywood
in the case of those built here.
The new jet fighters have a great
deal of plywood about them.
Research on plywoods at the
moment are of major military
importance everywhere. The
greatest difficulties in dealing
with plywoods for aircraft con-
struction and other ever-widen-
ing military purposes is gluing
and surfacing with which Rud-
kin is concerned.


BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond, Chairman
F. H. Way, Vice-Chairman
Cecil H. Doyle F. W. Hixson, 0.8. E., V.D.
G, Moncrieff Barron, 0.8. E., M.B.Ch.M.,
F.R.A.C.S.
J. R. Faviell
Manager: N. L. Shaw
Asst. Manager: C. N. P. Whittle
UNAFFECTED BY THE
BE
PASSAGE OF TIME
Your assurance of safe and efficient
ESTATE ADMINISTRATION
By appointing the Permanent Trustee Company as your Executor and Trustee, you
are guaranteeing for your dependants the smooth, safe and efficient administration
of your Estate.
With 60 years’ experience, the Company is able to meet the exigencies of Trustee-
ship with a promptness and ability not to be expected from a private individual. It
is a specialist in the management of all classes of Estates and Trusts; it brings to
the administration of your affairs a staff of highly qualified officers, specially trained
to meet the complex requirements of Trusteeship.
Write for our free booklet, “Trust Estates and Their Management,**
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W. LTD.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY pt.t.w
UHCABLED
ADDITIONS
CONSPIRACY FOR TREASON.
On the advance confessions of
treason by the French Com-
munist Thorez, who passes the
Kremlin orders on to leaders of
the conspiracy in other countries,
N. Y. “Daily News” commented
tersely:
“The only surprising aspect of
this incident is the fact that it
was reported here and elsewhere
as a surprise speech. What’s
astonishing about it? Doesn’t
everybody know by now that the
first loyalty of Communists all
over the world is to Russia, and
that these traitors will do fifth-
column work of any kind any-
where on Kremlin orders?”
Certainly everybody should
know it by now, though there
are evidently some —including,
of course, Mr. Chifley—still pre-
pared to accept them as mere
“political philosophers,” mem-
bers of an ordinary political
party in the democratic pattern,
and so deserving of all the usual
liberties and full freedom of
action, and meriting toleration
and encouragement.
Yet, since Thorez and Echoes
were heard from, even these
must begin to have at least some
blurred idea of what simple
dupes they have been. For, as
William Henry Chamberlin, a
noted authority on the species,
has written: “One reproach at
The “Nashville Tennessean."
"SPEAKING OF COLD WARS". . .
least cannot fairly be levelled
against Stalin and his chief fifth-
column agents in foreign coun-
tries. It cannot be truthfully
said that they failed to give
ample warning of what they pro-
pose to do, for the benefit of all
who have eyes to read and ears
to hear.”
Th° conndins: of that warn-
ing by Thorez and the rest could
well have been concerted as an
incident in what Hitler and his
fifth-column traitors perfected
before his maniacal bid for
world conquest—the preliminary
“war of nerves.” It was nothing
new from the Communist con-
spiracy itself: “There is an over-
whelming mass of evidence from
Communist sources of undis-
puted authenticity that a Com-
munist cannot be loyal to his
own faith unless he is willing to
betray his own country and to
try to subvert its institutions.
International Communism is one
of the most blatantly open and
undisguised schools for treason
known in history.”
Before the recent admissions
rather crudely added to that
mass, an able examination of
the Communist treason-doctrine
was made by the “Christian
Science Monitor’s” chief Wash-
ington correspondent, Roscoe
Drummond, in an “American
Mercury” article. Of his sources
of information he stated : “The
most conclusive and incontro-
vertible evidence is not what
others say the Communists are
up to, but what the Communists
themselves, in their less-guarded
moments, say they are up to,”
Drawing solely on the docu-
ments of “The Constitution and
Rules of the International Com-
munist Party,” for “the basic
truths about the Communists
and the Communist party in
every country,” he pointed out
(referring specifically to the
US., but including all):
“That there is no such thing
as an American [i.e., or an Aus-
tralian] Communist party.
“That the Communist party
which has been set up in the
United States [or Australia] is
avowedly a ‘section’ of the
Communist International.
“That its decisions can be in-
stantly and legally reversed by
the Politburo in Moscow.
“That its officials hold office
at the behest of Moscow.
“That its members have
actually signed over to the
Soviet-controlled Executive
Committee of the Communist
International their American [or
Australian] civil and Constitu-
tional rights to think and act as
free men.”
For each of those findings
Drummond gives the relevant
clause from the official Com-
munist documents. “These,” he
goes'on to state, “are the facts
in evidence.., .When they are
brought fully into the open, the
American people [or any other
free people] will have no trouble
deciding that the Communist
party in every country is the
subversive tool of a foreign
Government and can treat it
accordingly without any impair-
ment of civil rights and Con-
stitutional liberties.”
As in the foregoing, any other
free country harboring its
“section” of the treason-con-
spiracy can be substituted for
the U.S. in the following further
extracts from Drummond’s
article:
“There are other facts which
add proof upon proof that the
Communist party in the United
States is disloyal,....
“This fact —that American
Communists have renounced
their patriotism to the United
States and have pledged them-
selves to practise national trea-
son.
“Proof: ‘Every party must re-
nounce social [national] patriot-
ism and pacifism,’ declares
the Constitution of the Third
International. ‘Every branch
and member of the universal
Communist party is pledged to
indulge in national treason in
case of war with the Soviets —
no matter who, in such a war,
should be the aggressor. Each
affiliated party is obliged to
render every possible assistance
to the Soviet Republics carry
on propaganda to induce the
workers to refuse to transport
military equipment, and by legal
or illegal means propagandise
the troops. The object of the
struggle, which must inevitably
turn into civil war, is to obtain
the political power. Eventually
the proletariat must resort to
armed uprising The party
must always adapt itself to the
idea of the Soviets.’
“And this fact that the
visible, legal part of the Com-
munist party which protrudes
above ground is only a fafade
and is subordinate to and con-
trolled, by the illegal Communist
underground.
“Proof; ‘The general state of
things in Europe and America,’
according to the official theses of
the Communist International,
‘makes necessary for the Com-
munists of the whole world an
obligatory formation of the
illegal Communist organisations,
along with those existing legally.
The Communist parties must
learn systematically to unite
legal with illegal work, but all
legal work must be carried on
under the control of the illegal
party. Parliamentary gnoups
must be fully and absolutely
subject to the party, regardless
of whether the party as a whole
is legal or illegal.’
“And this further fact —that
the Communist party is openly
dedicated to the use of force to
achieve its end, which is Com-
munist control of every Govern-
ment it can lay its hands on.
“Proof: ‘Unless the bourgeois
system [which means any non-
N. Y. “World Telegram ."
"FASTER THAN WE CAN BAIL IT OUT."
Communist system] is over-
thrown,’ says the platform of
the Communist International,
‘the repetition of war is inevi-
table. To overthrow the inter-
national bourgeoisie and create
an international Soviet Republic,
all means will be used, including
force of arms. To admit the
idea of a peaceful reformist pas-
sage to Socialism is to give proof
of extreme petty-bourgeois
obtuseness. Only a violent de-
feat of the bourgeoisie will guar-
antee complete submission.
“These,” Drummond sums
up, “are the explicit and
committed purposes of the
Communist International
Every Communist-party mem-
ber in every country has
accepted these purposes as
his own and he has pledged that
he will subordinate his will to
the discipline and direction of
the Soviet-controlled Executive
Committee of the Communist
International.”
Since Thorez and Echoes
spoke their set piece for what-
ever benefit the Kremlin may
have thought would be gained
by such almost incredible crude-
ness, . there are considerably
fewer dupes in the U.S., at least,
and there is now no question
that special legislation to deal
with Communists on their merits
will shortly be passed there. A
brief mention was recently made
in cables to bills which
have been introduced in Con-
gress for that purpose. While
not “outlawing” the Communist
party in the U.S., the new law
will practically put that “party’s”
confessed members and its
borderline following in the class
of political lepers.
Another form of action which
might spread has been reported
in Washington “Post”—a bill
passed 26-0 in the Senate of the
small State of Maryland. It
calls for “the dispersal of any
subversive organisation now
existing or which shall come into
existence. Persons who know-
ingly join or remain members of
subversive organisations could
be fined up to $20,000 and im-
prisoned up to 20 years.”
Loyalty checks of all State em-
ployees, including schoolteachers,
are also provided for.
There may be separate action
on some such lines by other
States.
British Miracle.
Despite any retarding effects
nationalisation may have had,
the loss of liberties once held
sacred, the serious food short-
ages and all such disabilities
(dealt with by observers recently
quoted here), the British people
have still managed to stage a
recovery which visitors and on-
lookers in other countries are
finding quite astonishing.
A visiting correspondent of
N. Y. “Herald Tribune,” who,
when in London at the end of
1947, found a nation suffering
financial haemorrhage, with its
exports and imports hopelessly
unbalanced, and with its indus-
trial recovery only just percep-
tible, now enthusiastically de-
clares: “In the past year the
British people have accom-
plished a miracle”:
“The traveller observes that
things are better in the very hour
of arriving in London. This
sprawling imperial city is one
that depends heavily on smart-
ness for effect. And now fresh
paint, the polished brass, the
whitened steps and even the neat
bay-trees in tubs that made the
old London are at least begin-
ning to reappear.”
But improvements not so
apparent add up to the real
British miracle ; to the fact that,
if there is no collapse of world
trade, Britain will be standing
on its own feet by 1952, on the


Bring them down...
with clean-killing
ELEY-KYNOCH
Shotgun Cartridges
m
w\
An abundance of quail, a good dog,
and a supply of Eley-Kynoch Grand
Prix cartridges will ensure a perfect
day’s shooting.
Make every shot a winner, ask your
storekeeper for 8 or 10 shot Eley-
Kynpch Grand Prix Cartridges.
jm
ICI
ELEY-KYNOCH
Shotgun
CARTRIDGES
m
T 5.18
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
way to being a great Power
again. These improvements lurk
as bright spots in the statistics
which Sir Stafford Cripps pre-
sents to Parliament, “with a
slight air of satisfaction at their
very grimness.”
During 1947 British exports
rose by 40 per cent, over the
previous year’s. By December,
1948, Britain was exporting close
to 150 per cent, of the total ex-
port of the previous ten years.
For the first time since the war
it was close to its goal of bal-
ancing export and import eco-
nomies. Sterling has become
scarce currency in all non-dollar
areas, and the drain on Britain’s
money reserves has been halted.
But Britain’s road ahead re-
mains a climb. There is, from
Germany and other reviving
economies, new industrial com-
petition that must be met. The
dollar deficit is still big, and
although trading on almost equal
terms with most of the world,
Britain is still forced to buy
more from the United States than
the U.S. can buy from Britain-
The “Herald Tribune’s” cor-
respondent states, however, that,
despite all this, “the miracle re-
mains.” In the British recovery
he sees a nation that will soon
be able to share the load of deal-
ing with world emergencies, a
lessening strain on the people
and resources of the U.S., and a
partnership which, if main-
tained, will constitute “a com-
bination pretty formidable to be
challenged by any aggressor.”
He gives first credit for the re-
covery to the British people
“still accepting a degree Of aus-
terity that would bring a revo-
lution in most countries”; their
weekly ration apart from
“starches and fresh vegetables”—•
would not make two reasonably
hearty meals.
“Credit must also go to British
industry, now beginning to ex-
periment again as it did in the
nineteenth century. Then, too,
there is the peculiar British poli-
tical system under which the
Tory opposition, behaving in a
most un-Republican manner, has
helped the Government on all
fundamental issues. And last,
but not least on the credit list,
there is Sir Stafford Cripps.”
Cripps, whose task it has been
to guide the making of this
miracle, in describing himself as
“sometimes discouraged, but
never depressed,” also describes
his country.
Contrast in Trials.
True in most respects of Aus-
tralian trials also, the American
examples in the following N. Y.
“Sun” comparisons between
“two important prosecutions for
treason and related crimes, one
in the capital of Hungary, the
other in the principal city of the
United States,” throw, where the
trial-methods differ from ours,
interesting light on the American
methods, while the Hungarian
examples add up to a crushing
comment on “iron-curtain”
prosecutions.
“In Communist Hungary it
took four days in which to try,
convict and condemn a Cardinal
of the Roman Catholic Church,
three Roman Catholic priests, a
Catholic editor, a college pro-
fessor and a Duke who was per-
haps that country’s wealthiest
private citizen. In non-Com-
munist America it has taken
approximately four weeks—and
the end is not yet—even to get a
jury for the trial of eleven per-
sons accused of conspiracy to
teach and advocate the over-
throw by violence of the Gov-
ernment of the United States.
* In Communist Hungary a so-
called people’s court of five
members was Judge and jury
and, from its official utterances,
a political Judge and a political
jury. In non-Communist
America, before the defendants
o>uld be tried, our whole
Federal judicial system—courts,
grand juries and petit juries—
have had to be tried as touch-
ing upon their qualifications
under the Constitution of the
United States.
In Communist Hungary the
principal evidence against the
accused consisted of alleged
confessions’ which may or may
not have been extorted by
physical or mental torture or
by both. In non-Communist
America the presentation in evi-
dence of any confession extorted
by duress and unsupported by
overwhelming independent testi-
mony would be ground for
automatic reversal of a verdict
of guilty.
“In Communist Hungary the
seven defendants were repre-
sented by counsel appointed by
the court —counsel which saw fit
to apologise to the court for hav-
ing obeyed orders. In non-Com-
munist America each of the de-
fendants is entitled to his own
attorney, to whom is allowed the
utmost liberty of challenging
every ruling by the court itself.
“In Communist Hungary
appeal from sentence of the
court may be taken to a tribunal
which has unlimited power to
incr'ease, sustain or diminish any
penalty imposed. In non-Com-
munist America appeal can be
taken only to a higher tribunal
which may modify or set aside
the imposed penalty, or order a
new trial, but which may not
increase that penalty.
“In Communist Hungary all
the accused were presumed
guilty until and unless they
proved themselves innocent. In
non-Communist America all de-
fendants are presumed to be
innocent until indubitably proved
guilty.
“In Communist Hungary no
observers or newspaper re-
porters, except those approved
by the Government, were per-
mitted to be present during the
trial. In non-Communist
America any observer or re-
porter who can show the slight-
est shadow of right to be there
may be present and make factual
report of the proceedings as he
pleases.
“In Communist Hungary
streets outside the court-room
were clear of all who may have
wished to make demonstration
in behalf of the accused. In
non-Communist America parti-
sans of the accused have been
permitted to mill around in the
streets and hand out inflamma-
tory publications.
“In Communist Hungary
there was never any doubt in
the public mind about the ver-
dict. The only doubt was whether
Cardinal Mindszenty and his co-
defendants would be hanged or
subjected to a living death in a
Communist prison. In non-
Communist America there is not
only doubt whether anybody will
be found guilty but also whether
those, if any, convicted will re-
ceive anything but the mildest of
penalties.”
Arctic Fishing.
Due publicity has been given
to the naval cruise in the Arctic
to test armament and equipment
so that warships can operate
continuously in northern
weather. Up there also in
Twilight Land, and of somewhat
more immediate importance to
the people of Britain, is the
trawler Ernest Holt, a research
vessel of the Ministry of
Fisheries, sent, for obvious
reasons, to find out why fish
concentrate in a certain area.
Little is known of the natural
laws which fish-shoals obey, and
Ernest Holt is specially-fitted to
improve that knowledge. She
carries deep-sea thermometers
lowered on a strong, thin wire—
it is thought that temperature
and salinity differences may
attract or repel fish —echo-
sounders, which, “pinging” on
a known bottom, detect any
large subsurface body above it,
and asdic, able to measure the
direction, speed and size of a
swimming shoal.
The U.K.’s largest source of
fish-supply lies within the Arctic
Circle, on the edge of the Bear
Island shelf and on other
grounds in the Barents Sea. In
winter the polar icefield covers
nearly half the area, but British
trawlers fish the open water,
working sometimes within a few
miles of the ice.
This region is in the winter
stprm - track, and the ships’
upperworks are usually coated
with an icy sheath. In mid-
winter the sun remains below-
horizon, and there are only two
or three hours of twilight.
Into This frigid world, for the
benefit of British housewives,
Ernest Holt has thrust her ex-
perience-designed bows. She is
of the same design that has
made English trawlers without
equal in seaworthiness. About
180 ft. long, she evolved from
centuries of storm-riding; 10ft.
taken Off aft, 10ft. added forrard,
until the present shape was
reached where her bows splinter
an approaching wave into Smoky
, f •? { „ /,
spray before it can fall with all
its weight inboard, and a cun-
ningly-rounded bottom with
N. Y. "Daily Mirror."
"VOICE OF THE PEOPLE ”
Mge-keek allows a 30-degree
toll without breaking-flee any
gear reasonably secured.
In a good season a trawler
crew of 24-28 can handle 20
tons a day tor 10 days, a load
of 600,000 good helpings of fish,
From this the skipper could ex-
Fb eCt o ,°- £9OO for his s *| are °. f
the 25-day voyage, and each
deckhand £BO-£9O.
But hauls like these depend on
forecasting and finding shoals.
For just this purpose Ernest
tt u u „• K ,
Holt, her scientific fingers prob-
ing where before only fisher-
men’s instinct searched, is now
pushing and sounding and test-
■ , ,i , .
mg her way through icy seas at
the top of the world.
Sentimental Pinks.
U.S. authority on Soviet do-
ings William Henry Chamberlin
remarks on the “queer distorted
double - standard of morals”
apparent among sentimental
Parlor Pinks:
“The Soviet Government can
commit truly gigantic crimes, in-
volving the death or slavery of
millions of human beings (the
liquidation of the kulaks as a
class, the man-made famine of
1932-33 and the institution of a
vast network of slave-labor
camps certainly fall in this cate-
gory) without eliciting more
than a mild lifting of the eye-
brows.
“There is a little scurrying
about for excuses, some com-
forting reflections that the Rus-
sians never knew freedom any-
way, wouldn’t know what to do
with it if they had it and that
the People who were 'liquidated'
or enslaved were probably anti-
social economic royalists any-
way.
“But let a single suspected spy
or traitor get a little rough hand-
i- • ° ~
ling in cross-questioning by the
Un-American Activities Com-
mittee and this attitude of serene
indifference is immediately trans-
r , ..pi
formed. The dictionary is ran-
sacked for adjectives of invective,
and there is an attempt to create
an impression that a x outrage
has been committed comparable
with the worst acts of Nero.”
The most extraordinary aspect
of this, of course, is that certain
churchmen have this double-
standard outlook, and are still
tolerated as churchmen.
Dragnet Digest.
Sick Stalin. —Going back to a con-
versation between an American officer
and Russian General Malinin in Ber-
lin a year ago, a writer in N. Y.
“Herald Tribune” represents Malinin
as having stated that “Unfortunately,
Generalissimo Stalin is not well” and
that he had “already had three
attacks.” Presuming these to have
been heart attacks, the correspondent
added: “The most experienced ob-
servers are convinced that the question
of who is to succeed Stalin has never
been settled, and that Stalin’s death
is certain to touch off a fierce and
bitter struggle for power within the
Kremlin. This struggle is sure to
influence deeply the future course of
Soviet policy. The struggle,” he con-
cluded grimly, “may not be far off.”
* * * *
British Motors. —Not Uncle Sam,
as might be supposed, but old bat-
tered and bent J. Bull is “now the
biggest auto exporter in the world,”
official figures showing that exports
of cars, buses, trucks and tractors
earned Britain some £146,000,000 in
foreign currency last year, with bikes
and motor-bikes adding a further
£25,000,000. Naturally the Attlees
have their eyes on it, Minister of
Supply Strauss telling the House of
Commons that “the day may come
when the Government will r ationalise
the motor industry.”
* ♦ ♦ ♦
Austerity Indeed. —Short of going
to Scotland and licking the heather,
the thirsty are going to know what
Britain’s austerity really means. Their
issue of Scotch whisky has been cut
by 600,000 gallons for this year!
They’ll get ,2,000,000 gallons only.
Export, “Wall-street Journal’s” Lon-
don .correspondent reports, will ac-
count for 10,500,000 gallons, of which
7,500,000 will go to “hard”-eurrency
countries, chiefly the U.S., Canada
and Switzerland. All other importing
countries, including presumably N.Z.
and Australia, will have to whack up
a mere million gallons of the gargle.
As more cheerful news, stock-in-hand
is steadily increasing, being now
round about 90,000,000 gallons.
♦ ♦ * ♦
Money in Oil. The fabulous
finances of oil can be glimpsed from
just one item of expenditure by one
group: Shell companies, as N. Y.
“Herald Tribune” reports, recently
budgeted a record $24,000,000 for
research alone. It’s to be world-
wide, and, because of world food
needs, top priority is given to “pro-
jects which will help grow more and
better crops.” In this research field
alone Shell companies now employ
about 4000 scientists and technicians.
* * * *
“Stooge” Is Parliamentary. —So, at
any rate, the Deputy-Speaker of the
House of Commons has ruled, laying
down that it’s quite in order for one
member of Parliament to call another
a “stooge.” “And why not?” N. Y.
“World-Telegram” asks. “Webster’s
New International Dictionary defines
a stooge as ‘a foil, especially for a
comedian.’ ”


OF DROUGHT AND
RAIN
By
BRIAN
JAMES
WHEN there has been no rain for
months someone is sure to say
“They ought to give this country
back to the blacks” ; although,
of course, whoever says it doesn’t really
mean it Not if he’s an old hand. Just
let someone try to take it off him and
listen to what that same disgruntled old
hand has to say.
Rain, of course, is necessary, like old
hands. And out here it hasn’t rained for
months. The last time it rained was one
of those cruel little comedies that the gods
love to play for us: days of preparation,
hustle and bustle backstage, elaborate
setting of props,; thunder and lightning—
left; thunder and lightning—right; enter
—left and right— vast armies of clouds;
first and second citizens with umbrellas;
some citizenesses are heard to say—“ You
must take your raincoat! What’s
that? ... I say you must take your rain-
coat —look at the sky! And, don’t walk
in the puddles, either, on your way home
from school!” And first citizen says to
second citizen—“ Well, we can do with
it—a foot of it, I’d say.” And second
citizen says—“ And so do I. Just been
keeping things alive with the hose.”
'"THUNDER and lightning—left, right
I and centre —armies advance threaten-
ingly. Ten drops of rain—big drops cer-
tainly . . . Armies retire in good order ;
thunder —off-stage—left and right. Sun
shines and the show is over.
The gods laugh heartily at their own
bitter humor, and if we can’t laugh with
them, then this country is no place for us.
So good a show is it that there are
many repeat performances; till comes
one at last where the citizens in their
wisdom leave their suburban umbrellas
in their suburban dwellings, and the
citizenesses do not insist on the hated
raincoats, and the warning about puddles
is not issued, and the armies, a trifle
weary it seems of their parts, advance in
perfunctory manner—and then A
whole foot of rain, and more, will tumble
out of the low skies.
That’s a good show, too.
So good that it recalls all the rains I
have ever known . . .
A GRAND storm rising out of the
western ridges on a day of breathless
heat, and lazy, sticky flies tormenting
every piece of exposed skin, boring into
the corners of the eyes, and settling in a
black crop upon the back.
Vicious stabs of thin and jagged light-
ning in the black centre of the massed
clouds ; rumbles and grumbles of thunder,
deep and throaty at first, and growing
sharp and shattering. A whole world still
and listening to the grand music of the
coming storm.
Mother puts the big milk-dish under
the spot where it leaks in the kitchen —
drat that spot! —but no one has ever been
able to stop that leak. Grandfather frog
under the nearly empty tank lifts up his
voice—“By gad, by gad! This time!
This time!” An older brother sees that
the spout that leads into the cask off the
kitchen roof is all right. A fork of light-
ning rips the clouds almost from the
zenith to the ground, and a wicked
momentary gleam shows in every polished
surface.
The ground shakes with the terrible
explosion that follows immediately. Elder
sister, white of face now, piously blesses
herself, hurriedly sprinkles holy water as
far as she can throw it with her fingers,
and then dashes to put scissors and any
steel objects under the table-cloth. “They
attract the lightning, you know.” She
covers the mirrors, too, for they also
attract the lightning.
Another sister—somewhat younger—
crawls under a bed, closes her eyes, and
puts her fingers in her ears. Mother pre-
tends there is nothing unusual and tries
to speak in her natural voice, “Those
eggs will be spoilt now!” There was a
broody hen on a clutch of eggs in the
cart-shed. Her nest was on the ground,
and heavy thunder is said to addle eggs
on the ground.
Grandfather frog in regular monotony
keeps on with his prophecy “By gad!
This time!”
The day has vanished into dim dark,
and the flying vanguards of the storm
have reached the eastern hills. Crash
after crash, explosion after explosion,
shake the ground—the eggs must be
beyond all hope now. And then ten
thousand horsemen charge across the flat.
It could have been stout Oliver at
Naseby.
Nearer and louder it comes, as awful
and terrifying as the thunder itself. And
with one last rush and roar it is upon
us —a solid wall of water that belts down
on the iron roof in a harsh discordant
music of its own. When we talk —for the
very relief of talking—we cannot hear
each other. But that doesn’t matter. The
worst has come, and the worst is not so
terrible—it is but the wild laughter of the
skies —a romping, rollicking jest that is
kindly meant for all its smother and
seeming fury ...
DOWN, down it .pours. The spout to
the kitchen cask overshoots by a
yard—a solid core of water that splashes
and crashes on to the big flagstones
beyond, and races past the back-door in
a yellow foaming river.
No matter—what’s a mere cask when
the whole world is Water now? The tank
—with grandfather frog somewhere be-
neath it —runs over, and the two side
tanks run over too, all mothering their
own little rivers.
The thunder goes back to throaty
growling and then to positive chucklings
—“Ha, ha! frightened you that time!”
Rain still drums on the iron roof —heavy
rain, but more moderate now. The water-
fall from the spout finds the cask and
fills it.
Elder sister doesn’t bless herself any
more or sprinkle holy water. Instead, she
scolds us for sticking our feet out into
the rain, and tells mother to look at us
and speak to us.
The middle sister comes out from her
under-the-bed retreat.
The downpour tapers off at last, sud-
denly, really. A rent appears in the
curtain to west of us—several rents with
soft golden edges to them, and blue shows
beyond, pure and pale. The broad sun
peers through a rent. The rainbow—a
huge double bow —appears in the east,
perfect bows with every color distinct,
even in the second and higher one. The
smell of freshness everywhere, and that
sweetest of all scents —dust and dry grass
wetted suddenly in summer.
'"F HEN there was the Big Drought, the
I most remembered drought in all Aus-
tralia’s history of endless droughts. The
drought of 1900-02.
In 1900 there was a heavy fall of snow,
widespread, and in places where snow
had never been seen before. It was a
glorious fall-all afternoon and night
great feathery flakes falling silently and
thickly. And all night the sound of snap-
ping bough and limb—overweighted with
this unaccustomed burden. Big limbs—
especially from the great yellow-box trees
—limbs a foot, two feet in thickness,
snapped off like carrots. In the morning
flats and hills all under a foot of dazzling
whiteness.
Old hands then shook their heads —old
hands always shake their heads—and said
they didn’t like it, and it meant no good.
And the old hands were right.
After the snow the drought set in. And
never before had nature so challenged the
white intruder. Livestock suffered pro-
digiously—in the winter of ’O2 the losses
amounted to many millions. On the
smaller places like our own the few milk
cows were kept alive—a creeping, crawl-
ing life that creaked and rattled, with
staring hopeless eyes and peaked and
angular hips—alive, and that’s all, by the
falling or lopping of the wild apple-trees,
and even the white-box.
Feed was scarce and fabulously dear.
And many a ope said “Not worth it—
cheaper to let them die!” And let them
die they did. Others went broke—and
then more broke—in the struggle to keep
the stock alive —and then wept when
word and credit could do no more. And
they shot and burned their stock rather
than see them suffer . . . Horses scraped
and chewed the bark from grey-box
saplings until the effort was too much
for them. For years after the scoring of
their teeth could be seen in the sapwood
of trees . . .
People flocked to the cities as never
before —people never meant for the cities;
and their menfolk became policemen,
tramguards, lorry-drivers, wharfies—any-
thing ; and if luckier still —clerks in
offices (“he was always good at figures,
and now it is worth while”). A few
managed to scramble into the professions.
Great numbers just drifted.
Perhaps nothing has ever so altered the
Australian outlook as the ’O2 drought—
and the change was a bad one. First, the
belief that the land was a curse —fit only
for the “mugs” who knew no better—“lf
you have any brains get away from the
land and get a good job in the city.”
Second, that life is easy and soft in the
city.
The summer of ’O2 was as merciless
in its searing heat as the winter had been
in pinching cold. There was all the
mockery of hard blue or brassy skies,
and the irony of clouds that piled and
gathered in the nor’-west, the rainy
quarter ; and then dissipated—a few drops
that scattered spurts of dust as they fell.
I N the withering months of that summer
* our big dam went dry. From the last
thickening waters of it we raked out the
catfish (jewies we called them), buckets
of them, and we and the neighbors ate
the lot. All the big dams went dry. Water
had to be carted from the creek where a
few spring-fed holes held out, or bailed
from the deep holes on the flat ... It
would never rain again. Never . . .
“Hold on!” called the land. “Hold on!
It will rain again.”
There were men who spat in the dust
and watched the saliva roll a little as a
pellet, and then raised their leathery faces
to the brassy sky—and clenched their
fists and cursed the merciless and solid
firmament; and the country that bore
them; and the crows that winged their
way heavily from the latest feast; and
the thin, drooping dejected foliage of the
gum-trees; and the Government; and
the stock-inspectors ; and the storekeeper;
and the banker; and everyone who had
good jobs ; and everyone who hadn’t; and
themselves; and their fathers and grand-
fathers for taking up land .. . And felt a
lot better for the comprehensive curse.
Then a drink from the water bag or the
cask on the sled ; and once more a spit
in the dust. ,
And the land replied “That’s better, and
you’ll do. Now I know you believe in
me —for your grand cursing is a prayer
a negative prayer, and I like it better
than whining, which is a thing of no taitn,
and less guts. You’ll do” .. •
THE drought broke in 1903— fairly
1 early, but too close to winter, ine
clouds banked up in the nor’-west, low
and heavy. They had done so otten
before. But this time they meant business
As early night drew in a soft drizzi
started, and grew heavier and heavier i
the half-forgotten music of ram on
corrugated-iron. “It’s a set-in, I d -
lieve,” said mother, and we almost h
our breaths for fear of breaking
spell. In the empty tanks the water feU
metallicly at first, and then safknSs5 a fknSs
and sob. We ran out, into the darkness
to make sure—and the rain was >
some further mockery an^ ; crU O L d wet P and
being practised on us. ij us
soaked, and mother didn t scold,.
(Continued on page 29.)
VARIOUS VERSE
One Was Drowned.
There is wood on the sand, firm held.
Tragedy traced in wet confusion.
A fence that has been felled,
A flat pavilion
Splayed by the weather.
Would be compact to this,
That was a boat,
Skilled parts riding together
Bearing a man’s bliss
Not bandit seagulls fighting and afloat.
And wagging on the shore,
•Finicky afoot as the grey gull,
Their arms reaching for more,
Their aprons full.
Scavengers wander.
A fire will burn sea-blue
In a dirty grate.
A wooden tomb and blunder,
Sea-washed and askew —
An old man’s shack —will flower a gate.
There pillage lies for all,
So much is spread on the sand,
And yet, the boat was small.
Bought second-hand,
Bedizened with delight.
Ungrateful thing of wood
—Bounty misplaced —
Asundering your white
To comfort thief and bird.
Counting the loss of all my world no
waste.
M.Z.
J. CAMERON SMITH.
To Lie on the Grass.
To lie on the grass and watch,
Amused and indifferent,
The fever that drives the ant
To nowhere that matters much;
To lie on the grass with the moths
While, spry with the thought of murder.
Goes scurrying by the spider
Speckled and muttering oaths;
To lie on the grass in a dream
Where nothing will start or stir
But the grasshopper splashing the air
With a flicker of yellow flame ;
Oh, to be half asleep
In the peace of the sunlit pasture
Is to lie like a lion at leisure
Where the little kingdoms creep,
And suddenly to be confused
By a prickle of spine and hair
And a notion of eyes in the air
Indifferent and amused.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
Forebears.
What have John Cockerill and Peter Lee
To do with me ?
Or the important ghost of Montfort
Jeffery
{Of Bankbourne in this parish, deeply
mourned)
Or Randall the grocer and Pamela his
wife
In death so close, who all her impatient
days
Strained from his side. Or the lean
lurking spirit
Of Matthew Palmer playing on his flute
Beside the river in the rainy dusk ...
The womb towards which I yearn
Was emptied on a streaming midnight
In a storm that shook the hazel trunks
Out of their sockets, and in another
country.
But the war has ploughed her under. All
her birds
Are flown away, the yellow candles burn
No longer in the window, and her words
Now quite elude me.
Denby, Raffan, Gregg, I know you not
Nor you know me. My father was a
dark man
Who had a temper but was fond of song.
But his loud singing did not last as long
As Raffan’s tomb.
My mother’s mother wore
A kerchief on her dark head
While Pamela Randall stood
Wishing her husband dead
Beside the neat church door
In a velvet bonnet and shawl
And now she has her wish.
{God’s blessing over all.)
Here are the village headstones
Suitably patched with moss
Over the worthy bones
And the irreparable loss.
But Cockerill and Jeffery,
Raffan, Palmer and Lee
Have nothing to do with me.
My forebears are ploughed under
The blowing hazel-tree.
N.S.W.
Elizabeth Riddell.


Hood
By LESLIE F.
VANMON
JOE ADAMS could hardly remember
back to a time when he had not been
slaving from sun-up till twilight to
make a go of the small rock-strewn
farm. Damn’ near twenty-five years, he
thought, since I sank my dough in this
place, and nothing but work, work and
still more work. And what have I got opt
of it?
He narrowed his eyes against the strong
slanting sunlight, and looked across the
leaping stream towards the homestead.
three-room weatherboard house
* stood on a flat-rock shelf in the rising
land beyond the river; the verandah,
which ran along the entire frontage, was
already black with shadow. The late-
afternoon sun was resting for a moment
on the very top of Old Baldy, the highest
peak in the range behind the house.
The stand of trees which he had left
around the house-site for shelter had
already covered the peeling walls of his
home with their shadows, but the tin-
roof —painted barn-red a few months
back—caught the sun.
The house had a slight tilt to the left,
caused by one of the corner foundation-
posts settling a bit deeper a few summers
ago.
I OE had built the place himself, with
the aid and advice of a drunken
carpenter he had picked up in the pub of
the nearest'town. It was no palace, but
he was proud of it when he puttied up
the last nail-holes; since then he had
hardly thought about it, except to replace
a few planks in the verandah-floor and
stop a few leaks in the roof. Way back
at the start, Joe had been thinking about
the possible arrival of a Mrs. Adams, but
it had never happened. The continuing
challenge of his 120 acres of rocky, bushy
hillside had turned his years into days in
which there was never quite enough light
to do what he wanted to do.
He had felt the loneliness at night when
he was in his thirties, but then suddenly
books had become his friends. He was
a member of the Bush Library in the
city, and every month without fail there
was a parcel for him at Stoneman’s store
over at the crossroads. He used to ride
over on Creamy once a month, taking
back the books he had read. He would
pick up the new bundle, and his supplies,
yam for an hour, then ride back to the
valley.
Time and time again the others in the
district would try to talk him out of stick-
ing to the farm. They would tell him
that he could get a small property on the
flats on the other side of the range, take
things easier.
They called his place Adams’ Gully.
But what they never seemed to understand
was that it was his. He, had carved the
farm out of virgin country. And in his
dry way he loved it ; loved its rushing
stream, its bold rock-faces, the sun rest-
ing on Old Baldy like a golden crown.
Joe was content to work his farm and
read his books.
JOE had bought! the place sight unseen
from a glib salesman with what he
had saved from his first 15 years’ work.
Orphaned as a youngster, he had been
out splitting posts, fencing, mustering,
when others his age were still at school.
He grew big, straight and strong. And
all the time, as strong in his mind as
were the muscles in his body, was the
desire to get a place of his own . . .
Meralla Valley, the salesman had
called the place—a whole valley to him-
self, plenty of water, his own river, in
fact. It seemed dirt-cheap.
AS Joe watched, the sun slipped down
on the other side of the range, and
the heat of the day went with it. The
whole valley was plunged in shadow.
Where the clearing stopped, the valley
walls closed in a little and the slopes were
too steep for even his tough stock to
forage on them.
Joe had been to the top of the valley
a hundred times. It went a long way
back from his cleared land—about five
or six miles —growing steeper and
narrower all the time, right into the heart
of the range.
The Meralla stream roared down, the
valley, fed by the mountain rains. It was
the swiftest, wildest little river he had
ever seen. Its deep banks were never
very far from full, and it supplied a good
portion of the water in the Koolaban
River down on the plains.
Joe was sometimes a little frightened
of the Meralla. Being so high in the
hills, he was often right in the middle of
the sudden storms which hit the range.
When the rain lashed down, he could
actually watch his river rising, and yet,
apart from a few overflows and scouring
at bends, there had been no serious flood-
ing in the years he had been there. He
always imagined that the very swiftness
of the stream took the water out of the
valley before it could bank up.
Turning his back on the river, Joe
swung his pick again at the corner of a
stubborn rock. It moved slightly. A few
more blows, and he had it out, broken,
at his feet. He rolled the big pieces a
few yards, and let them go tumbling
down a steep slope towards the river.
They would come in handy for the streng-
thening work he was doing at a turn in
the bank. He decided to call it a day. A
couple of those new books looked
good . . .
Forsyte Saga was a bit of an
adventure for Joe. Most of the stuff
sent up from the library was easier to
handle stuff like detective yams and
Wild Wests. But the gilt-edged Gals-
worthy stories, with their frock-coats and
furbelows, and elaborate dialogue, were
something new and absorbing. Joe was
his own company, and long since had
developed the habit of talking out loud
in comment on the progress of his stories.
With the old armchair pulled in close to
the open fire, and his pipe glowing com-
fortably, he would turn the book-face
down in his lap every so often and let the
thread of the yam so far run through
his head.
He used to ration his reading by the
kerosene-lamp. He would pump the air-
pressure chamber tight before sitting
down, and then allow himself one more
pumping before turning in. Most times
it happened that he would sense that the
light was about to fade and would begin
to turn the pages at a prodigious rate so
as to get in as much as he could —then
the next night he would have to read
back over about ten pages to find out
what was happening.
Galsworthy’s Soames had just bidden
farewell to Michael Mont, who had come
in his rumpled flannels seeking the hand
of the delectable Fleur. Then
“ A distant flash, a low rumble, and
large drops of rain spattered on the
thatch.”
Joe couldn’t think for a moment why
those words seemed important, until he
realised that large drops of rain were
spattering on his tin-roof, that the growl
of real Australian thunder was rolling
down the valley.
He put the book down, and went on to
the verandah.
THE spatter of rain immediately be-
came an incessant drumming, and
the thunder cracked and echoed like a
Snowy River stockwhip. Joe knew that
it was going to be a corker. He quickly
ran his mind over the things that had to
be done when a storm hit the valley,
Yes, everything seemed to be taken care
of. The stock were in the high paddock,
and they had the shelter of the trees
there . . . There were no implements in
the river paddocks. The old gelding
Creamy, who had the run of the place,
could take care of himself. Only thing
was, if the river came up he would lose
all the rock he had gathered on the bend
below his narrow bridge. Well, Joe
thought, there’s always more rock; rock’s
the one thing we’ve got plenty of. The
flimsy bridge, swinging a good fifteen
feet above the water, was as safe as a
church.
He went back to the fire, slamming the
door on the storm.
Joe was just starting the chapter which
commences in June Forsyte’s studio on
the bank of the Thames at Chiswick
when the lamp began to flicker. He put
the book away carefully. If the rain
kept up, there would be a long tomorrow
in which to finish it.
BUT it was hard to sleep in the low
stretcher. Joe lay awake for hours
listening to the rain belting on the roof.
He could already hear the Meralla roar-
ing down, and knew that more of his
precious soil was being washed from his
steep land, its ochre turning the stream
into yellow soup. He knew that the new
day would show him jutting rock-faces
that had been hidden yesterday; that he
would find some of the young trees he
had planted on the slopes to hold the soil
lying among the rocks.
Nights like these were the times when
the thought of leaving the valley to the
river seemed to make sense. This was the
first bad storm of the year, but around
the same time last year a heavy rainstorm
had left the hillsides looking as though
they had been the target for an artillery
bombardment. It sickened the soul to
see a year’s heavy toil wrecked in a few
hours.
Once he had thought of damming the
stream higher up the valley, and regu-
lating the flow of water all the year
round—but. Hell, the expense! He had
taken a ninety-nine-year lease over the
higher reaches of the river when the idea
first struck him. That part of it was
easy, as there was no competition for the
rugged gully. But when he found out
that even a simple dam project would
cost thousands, he had been forced to
drop the whole thing.
JOE awoke at dawn with the roaring
-of the river in his ears. It was still
raining, and the dim light that struggled
into the room was barely enough to out-
line his corduroy pants hanging over the
chair near the bed. He wriggled into the
cold pants, and went out on the verandah.
Joe swore low, hard, viciously. The
valley bottom was a torrent of foaming,
dirty water. The Meralla was over its
banks as far up the valley as he could see
in the poor light. It was worse than he
had ever seen it. Another foot rise and
the bridge would go.
The river had forgotten where its banks
were and was coursing, straight down the
valley—a brown flood bearing a pathetic
cargo of uprooted trees, his own fence-
posts, and under it all the tumbling, grind-
ing boulders, biting at his few miserable
acres of river-land.
And the rain was just slanting down as
though it would never stop. There was
no sign of the sun, just a weak light fight-
ing its way through the solid grey over-
cast. The rock-slab pathway from the
house to the bridge was carrying a minia-
ture river of its own. Joe thanked his
lucky stars that he had left the belt of
trees round the house, otherwise the whole
damn’ thing would be sliding down into
the flood. Joe cursed again, right from
the heart. Hell, life was tough for some.
His mind raced ahead of time, and he
saw himself sloshing through the mud
and kicking at the boulders , . . Life
was hard.
AWAY on his right at the entrance to
his valley, the ground fell away sud-
denly and Joe could hear the greater roar
of the Meralla throwing itself over the
rim and plunging down on to the plains.
Adams’ Falls would be a sight worth
looking at today. Joe knew that unless
the storm was general over a very wide
area, the Koolaban with its thirty-feet
banks would be able to take the Meralla
flood. The plains farmers would be safe
enough.
Joe stamped inside. What the hell
could he do? Nothing, Just sit and wait,
and hope. He stirred the ashes of the fire
into a glow and threw on some small
wood. Soon there was a billy of tea, and
a panful of thick bacon. Joe didn’t have
the heart to clean up. He just left the
plate and cup on the table, pulled his
chair over to the low front window, filled
his pipe, and sat down with Galsworthy.
BY ten o’clock, Joe knew that this was
the end of his farm,, that he was
watching his only arable acres flow past
his window and spill down on to the
plains, that there would be nothing left
but an eroded gully full of slush and
rocks.
The bridge had gone around eight; the
only fences- that meant anything, the
fences that had taken him two years to
put up, were gone . . . They would never
be rebuilt. j
The book lay in Joe’s lap, forgotten.
There was a grim fascination in watching
the rising waters. He would watch a
feed-trough, say, about two yards up the
hill from the flood. Inch by inch the
swirling tide would creep up the hillside,
then in the twinkling of an eye the trough
would swivel about and race past the
house. Just one little thing after another,
the farm was being swept away.
THE rain was still a steady curtain of
water. Joe could not hear the rain on
the roof any more —the unearthly roar of
the flood was above all noise. Joe realised
about noon that the house was likely to
go, and he said, quietly yet- firmly, to
himself: “If the old house goes, then I
go with it.”
He wasn’t in much of a mood for
heroics —in any case, with the bridge
gone, the only way he could get out of
the valley was by a direct climb over
the range behind the house, and a fat
chance he would have that way in this
storm. Yet he knew that he could give it
a go to get up to the cave in The high
paddock. But he knew that he would
not.
If the Meralla came on to his verandah
it would find him here, sitting at the
window. And the flood was still thirty
feet down the hill from the house.
(Continued on page 29.)
“MAMA"


&t!9
r
CLOTH
■ f
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
LEARN TO DANCE!
Four beautifully presented and
fully illustrated booklets:
“Learn to Dance the Waltz”
“Learn to Dance the Quickstep”
“Learn to Dance the Slow
Foxtrot”
“Learn to Dance the Tango”
Specially prepared for beginners by
Australia’s most highly qualified
Dance teacher—
J. Sandy ROBERTSON
1 /- ea. or Set of 4 for 3/6
Post free from
J. SANDY ROBERTSON,
303 Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
or
Box 1963 x, G.P.0., Brisbane.
Get Winter Warmth with . . .
MORRIS “CENTRAL” RADIATORS
Economical, Mobile, Central Heating
The Morris All-British “Central" Radiators give the comfort of
“Central Heating” without heavy installation costs. They’re mobile,
too. Being water filled, they do not draw any from the
air. For the town and city, there is the electric Morris
which can be used as a radiator or direct ray fire or both. This
radiator is illustrated at right. Shown at left is the oil radiator,
ideal for heating houses in the country where no electricity or gas
is laid on, and is operated by an “ODOURLESS” precision blue
flame kerosene burner.
r
0m
m
m
? All Morris “Central” Radi-
ators are mounted on ball-
bearing castors and can be
wheeled from room to room
_ with ease and perfect safety.
Manufacturers and Patentees—Morris Heating Appliances Ltd.,
5 Netherton Grove, London, S.W. 10.
rade inquiries invited. Stocks available in Sydney or Melbourne.
Sole Agent : —
L. D. BESTON
387 KENT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
ir Qxoa Cables i Best
ephone: M 3526. , , .
bourne Office: 3rd Moor, 34 Queen Street.
Cables: “Beston,” Sydney.
»PhnnA- MB 1851.
SUNDRY SHOWS
Shakspeares Presence.
The Falstaff of “The Merry
Wives of Windsor,” said to have
been reborn of Queen Eliza-
beth’s desire to see Sir John in
love, is not the comic genius
who gashes, stroke on inspired
stroke, against the sombre
history of Henry IV, but rather
a Falstaff in the manner of Fal-
staff ; and at the Independent
Theatre last week William Rees
pressed out against these re-
strictions like Falstaff’s paunch
from its purple doublet.
The rich, rumbling voice, the
swagger, the gradually awaken-
ing delight in the progress of an
amorous, plot, first in the eyes,
then, like a light fully turned on,
in the smile, were all there ; but
also, in Sir John’s return, sneez-
ing, after his ducking in the
river, he showed us for a
moment in an exquisite nuance
of, voice and gesture a tired old
man with the pathetic bravery
which goes on and on after re-
verses. Mr. Rees has the rare
ability to make an audience feel
his thought before it appears in
action; it would be good to see
him as the earlier and greater
Falstaff.
John Alden’s deceptively
simple production was designed
to provoke the sympathy and en-
gage the goodwill of the audi-
ence ; two morris dancers
(who certainly did not look like
members of the 'Scene Shifters’
Union) moved the few proper-
ties on and off the stage, and
drew curtains back and forth
across the atmospheric back-
drops by William Constable,
which made ordinary ba'ckdrops
look like hoardings—notably
the fence-and-stile scene in the
grey dawn.
In this intimate and encourag-
ing atmosphere, Mr. Alden as
Ford, Doris Fifton and Mary
Hosking as the Wives, and
Mavis Turner as Mistress
Quickly, unfolded the plot with-
out a second’s delay ; and Trader
Faulkner, as Dr., Caius, the
French physician, showed in
voice and liquid and spitting
motion how completely a part
can be characterised, without a
false movement or intonation.
Alistair Roberts, as. Slender, the
reluctant booby, spoiled with a
cracked voice a part which was
played perfectly over the air
some years ago with a pure,
almost a singing voice; John
Clark, as Simple, might have
stepped out of a Rowlandson
colored print, but was inco-
herent ; John Cameron postured
well as Pistol, but sounded too
much like a cannon.
But if, in a performance of
Shakspeare, we are given the
feeling that the great spirit who
knew more about human limi-
tations than any critic is present
upon the stage, we should be
reasonably happy; and he was
certainly there last week; and
judging from the boisterous
laughter throughout the play at
the salty jokes which all mem-
bers of the cast took a delight
in underlining, Queen Elizabeth
might have been there, too.
At Mayne Lynton’s produc-
tion of “Twelfth Night” at the
Theatre Royal, on the other
hand. Queen Elizabeth was re-
placed by about 2561
schoolgirls, and Shakspeare put
in an appearance only now and
then.
The show was superbly
dressed. Countess Olivia’s
gowns almost upset the air-con-,
ditibning with the sharp suck of
breath into 2561 schoolgirl*
mouths, and Maria’s crimson
velvet crinoline was equalled only
by the flash of pink silk under
it* in the eyes of one of the few
men present; Duke Orsino’s
doublet and hose were much
richer than any purse other than
the Firm’s .could bear, and Mal-
volib’s black taffeta and acces-
sories beggared Farmers’ win-
dows.
The scenery included one of
the Firm’s best backdrop gar-
dens, which must be worth many
pounds an acre, a hedge which
seemed to have benefited from
the recent rains, a back parlor
and fireplace perhaps by Beard
Watson, Grace Brothers or
Bebarfalds the programme
does not say—and a couch for
the Duke which Cleopatra might
have found suitable —and prob-
ably, at some time in its history,
has.
But although the serious side
of the story was well-spoken by
Viola (Anne Bulien), Olivia
(Kathleen Drake), and Orsino
(Peter French), and the purple
passages, a little tedious in per-
formance, were helped along
with music from a loudspeaker,
it was only in the drinking scene,
the letter scene and the duel
scene that the whole attention
of the theatre was absorbed;
and here Lorna Orchard made a
charming and pert Maria, while
Augustus Neville as Sir Toby
Belch, Barrett Fleming as Sir
Andrew Aguecheek and Gordon
Lishman as the clown brought
back to the old theatre a remi-
niscence of Gus Bluett and Leo
Franklin with their concerted
fooling—perhaps not so Shak-
spearean as calculated to make
sure that the children laughed
in the right places this year.
Which they did, and also
seemed to enjoy and appreciate
Mr. Lyntbn’s careful portrait of
Malvolio; and on going to the
stage-door to find the name of
the smooth-voiced and exquisite
clown (Mr. Lishman plays at
night in “Annie Get Your
Gun”), The Bulletin had to
push its way through a milling
mass of maidens in uniform,
clutching autograph-books, and
watching exits and entrances
with flatteringly suspicious eyes.
* * * *
The idea Shaw is trying to
put over in “Man and Super-
man,” produced by the Marlowe
Society at the Union Theatre,
University of Melbourne, is
Nietzsche’s notion of the Super-
man and the Life Force. Anne
Whitfield, the eternal woman
who pursues , the man, who
thinks he is tile pursuer, sym-
bolises the Life Force, and the
freethinking Tanner is Shaw
himself, the unconditioned
thinker. Ramsden is the re-
spectable man completely con-
ditioned by the ideas of his
grandma, and Mr, Malone is
current economic theories. Wil-
fred Blunden, Dorothea Callopy,
Anton Bowler, Lloyd Thomson
and others gave Shaw’s symbols
a queer life of. their own.
"Scott of the
Antarctic."
This documentary, at Mel-
bourne Savoy, is everything a
documentary should be. An epic
of the extraordinary courage of
one man, it never makes a single
histrionic gesture. The earlier
parts—where Scott is fighting an
indifferent public for the means
to go on another expedition, the
behavior of the explorers’ wives,
Scott’s meeting with Nansen, his
reception of the telegram from
Amundsen saying that he had
changed his mind about the
North Pole and was making for
the South Pole —are aU of a
piece.
John Mills never makes you
feel that he is a film-star playing
at being: a hero, and when the
party of a dozen make their
last desperate struggle for the
Pole, only to find Amundsen
has been there before them, you
never feel you are looking at
something being done by actors
in the snows of Norway, the
vicinity of the North Pole and
the Swiss Alps, where the story
was actually reconstructed.
The impression left is that
Scott was not so much a great
explorer as a great commander,
a born leader. As an explorer
he made mistakes with regard
to taking horses and motor-
tractors, having too few dogs—
as Nansen says: “Dogs, Captain
Scott, and dogs and more dogs.”
Scott didn’t know the technique
of polar exploration as well as
the Norwegians—and he even
admits it. But he makes ho mis-
take as a commander.
The film doesn’t attempt to
penetrate below the surface and
show the feelings—if you want
that you can go to the play by
Douglas Stewart. Dr. Wilson
clinging to the last to his fossils,
Petty-officer Evans denying that
he is sick to death. Captain
Oates walking out into the
blizzard because he knows that
in his crippled condition he can
only be a burden to his com-
panions, Scott writing up his
diary and, with a frozen foot
himself, watching his crew for
any sign of weakness, are the
incorrigible English who never
know when they are beaten.
♦ ♦ * ♦
“The Winslow Boy” (Mel-
bourne Plaza): Recently well
done in Melbourne as a straight
play, this record of the fight of
a father for the retrial of his
son, dismissed from Dartmouth
Naval College on a charge of
stealing five shillings, which
finally brings the case into the
House of Commons on the plain
issue as to whether a subject,
even a child of 14, can sue his
King to obtain justice, is with
difficulty strung out into two
hours of film drama. It has to
do a lot of violence to the his-
torical facts and has to find
accommodation for a love affair
between Robert Donat, as the
father’s lawyer, and Margaret
Leighton. As that bitter, stern,
har d h e aded Ulsterman Sir
Edward Carson is believed to
have been the original for Sir
Robert, much mental adjustment
is needed. Donat, however,
turns in a good performance,
equally with Sir Cedric Hard-
wicke as the father who brings
financial ruin on himself and
family in his struggle for justice
against bureaucracy.
* * * *
“Station West” (Sydney
Palace): Dick Powell, as a U.S.
Army agent in plain clothes,
rides into a western mining town
riddled with corruption, gam-
bling, outlaws, etc., riddles it
with lead, etc., and rides out
again leaving one or two in-
habitants still alive, Jane Greer
is the bewchiis leader of all the
villainy; Burl Ives chants a few
western ditties.
* * ♦ *
“That Hagen Girl” (Sydney
Mayfair): Shirley Temple try-
ing to live'down rumors of ille-
gitimacy in a small town; She
suspects Ronald Reagan is her
rightful father; he isn’t; so, of
course, she marries him.
• * ♦ ♦
In “Velvet Touch” (Sydney
Century) comedy actress Rosa-
lind Russell kills her director-
lover because he thinks she
should not act in tragedy or
marry another. Dogged by
detective Greenstreet and much
more efficient conscience she
proves director right in his first
contention at least.
Bach With a Bite.
One of the finest transcribers
for the piano of Bach’s organ
music was Ferruccio Busoni. A
splendid pianist, he evolved a
system of pedalling whereby he
was able to maintain a billowing
resurgence on the bass against
which the cantabile in the right
hand stood out with great
clarity. It is this, applied intelli-
gently to his piano transcrip-
tions, which has preserved in
them the organ-qualities of the
originals. That is strikingly
illustrated in the Organ Toccata
in C Minor, which Paul
Schramm included in his all-
Bach recital at Sydney Con. The
pianist’s attack in heavy chords
had a fair measure of grandeur,
while particularly attractive
phrasing marked the haunting
Intermezzo. The fugue was
crisp and never allowed to drag.
Schramm drew heavily on
Busoni for his programme,
which included the Chaconne
from the Fourth Violin Sonata,
the Prelude and Triple Fugue in
E Flat Major, and four Choral
Preludes: “Lord God, Heaven’s
Gate Unlock,” “Awake, the
Voice Commands,” “I Call On
Thee, Lord,” and “Now Comes
the Gentiles’ Saviour” —these
were notable for well-controlled
gradations of tone-color. The un-
accompanied Concerto in the
Italian style flowed under
Schramm’s nimble fingers in a
rhapsodic stream. In the prelude
of the Organ Concerto in D
Minor (Stradal’s
Schramm effectively employed a
thunderous rolling bass while
he gave to the treble an eloquent
voice. The Largo was invested
with the right degree of wist-
fulness.
Isador Goodman concluded
his season at Melbourne Town
Hall with magnificent perform-
ances of the Toccata and Fugue
in D Minor of Bach-Tausig and
the Brahms Variations on a
Theme of Paganini. They were
followed by a “New Guinea
Fantasy” composed by the
pianist in 1944 when he was
serving on that island and is
dedicated to the heroes of
Kokoda. It is impressionistic,
remarkably effective and full of
sound-pictures presumably de-
scribing the weirdness and
beauty of the jungle, mixed with
portraits of the native popula-
tion and undertones of conflict.


Mew’s ik time...
sT
m
to make yoyr car eager
for taster motoring
Your car will realjy be “rearin’ to go” over the Easter
holidays if you drive in now for a thorough MARFAK
chassis lubrication service. Be early and save yourself the
disappointment of “Sorry, all booked out before Easter”.
Marfak service is dependable service with every grease-
point double-checked ... by chart not by chance. Drive
in where you see the MARFAK sign Marfak service costs
only a few shillings.
t
m
CHASSIS
LUBRICATION
\£Jn££*£Z~
MARFAK IS AN
EXCLUSIVE CALTEX PRODUCT
©
0
C 3-49
tTnCONVE m PAVIAENTS
o
a *
*
o>
J3>
-o
«?2-
v |
S>
Q
mmssmm
M
, #■' / -
su.. - 'X rm> s
■
35*
MV
TOOTH'S K.B. LAGER Brewed and bottled by Tooth & Co. Limited.
Makers of good beer since 1835. kb. 2B .
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
On Wednesday of last week racing
interest was evenly divided between
Sydney and Melbourne, with the
Warwick Farm meeting, postponed
by the washout, being held that day
at Randwick, and also the big autumn
meeting having its second day at
Flemington. Both batches of races
had a bearing on the coming A.J.C.
autumn clashes.
In Melbourne, one that stamped
himself an outstanding contender was
the three-year-old Helios colt Carbon
Copy. He beat Russia, Cronides and
a couple of others pointless in the
w.f.a. King’s Plate over the mile-and-
three-quarters run. Starting equal
favorite with Russia at 10 to 9, Car-
bon Copy gave Breasley the easiest
of rides, and, maybe profiting from
experience, Breas. rode him easily,
letting the old horse bowl along
ahead into the straight and only then
calling on the youngster for his effort.
Carbon Copy came on in such
good style—six or more lengths ahead
at the finish in the very good time of
2.56|, on a dead track and pulling
up—that he certainly looks like test-
ing anything now racing in Sydney,
in his own age class, anyway. At
w.f.a. it might be as well not to dis-
card Russia over a distance. The
boots he had to wear may have
steadied him, and he could be ridden
a different race.
And there is, of course, for the
St. Leger, and anything else for that
matter, the fine South Australian colt
Comic Court; not present at the
King’s Plate meeting, but always one
to consider. He has beaten Carbon
Copy and, though it is now said the
Helios colt will henceforth be ridden
as he was against Russia, Comic
Court, in this onlooker’s view, could
still beat him.
The other main Melbourne result
of that Wednesday meeting was the
chestnut Powers Court colt St.
Comedy’s win in the Ascot Vale
sprint over six furlongs. Ridden by
Purtell, he got there in 1.13, which,
on the then state of that track, was
not bad. The performance, taken
with that of his defeat by the filly
Lady Pirouette, was considered not
good enough, and he was to be taken
back to S.A., where, at least, he
should take a lot of beating.
As well as the King’s Plate, there
were two other distance events at
Flemington on Wednesday. Sahctus
did not have much in hand to defeat
Colin and Hush Hush over one-mile-
and-five in the Autumn Handicap,
and the bay colt Baldur, another
Helios, had an even closer call over
Kritiri and Lord Clive in the 12-
furlongs River Handicap for three-
year-olds. Kritiri looks the one
worth watching.
* * * •
At the Sydney meeting that day
the main win might seem to have had
no bearing on the big AJ.C. autumn
racing at all, and yet one runner
might prove an exception—that was
the former country performer De La
Salle, a really fine mare, who won by
so many lengths that the camera had
its work cut out to catch 7-to-4
favorite Bertibrook (third) in the
same picture. Nonetheless that run
of Bernbrook’s is another that might
well be forgotten, though the run m
this event to keep in mind was
Vagabond’s fourth. With three fur-
longs to go Vagabond was a very
long way back, and in a ruck at
that. He could beat any of them.
The good Dhoti filly Vicereine
won Randwick’s March Nursery,
abound the six-furlongs course, in the
somewhat slow time of 1.15 i; but
she is an exceptionally good one;
the well-conditioned last-start-winner
EHmay Lass took quarter of a second
longer covering the same distance in
the second division of that event.
Of other Randwick performances,
the best were Huamight’s win from
Invictus in the 12-futfongs Warwick
March Handicap and Dynamite’s suc-
cess in the Welter.
The Flemington meeting wound up
on Saturday with some tip-top racing,
one of its most striking items Russia’s
win in the certainly well-named event
for stayers, the Carbine Stakes, over
two-and-a-quarter miles. Russia, who
is making his present return-appear-
ance after a while at the stud, had
no trouble disposing of Sanctus, the
three-year-old Clement and a couple
of others, including disappointing
Bolivia.
Altogether, Saturday at Flemington
was mainly a day-out for neddies
with a bit of stamina to them —the
Steeple over 2i miles, with Cable
News having an even easier victory
from Briar and Bronze Laddie; the
Burberry filly Harella downing
Vanina and Lynette in the 10-furlongs
Beverley Handicap; Saxonian win-
ning the 14-furlongs Flemington
Handicap from Golden Gem and
Colin; and the St. Magnus four-year-
old horse Trumps narrowly landing
the money from Viceroy, Damon and
a strong field of others in the Fare-
well Handicap, oyer the 10-furlongs
run. _ 4
Flemington’s other two events were
for the sprinters—Morse Code (an-
other St. Magnus product) beating
Not Proven, Sun Chick and the rest
in the 7-furlongs Gibson Carmichael
Stakes; and Flemish having a nice
win from Comedy Prince, Spoor and
the other 6-furlongs sprinters in the
Leonard Stakes.
* * ♦ ♦
Main Sydney event for the Satur-
day was the S.T.C.’s Canterbury Cup
over nine furlongs, Silent, well-ridden
by G. Moore, coming on strongly
from a handy possie at the turn to
win by some four lengths. The
Talking gelding is now getting on a
bit, and is a trifle unsound, but could
easily pick up another race or so.
A particularly good run in the
Cup was four-year-old Karachi’s fine
finishing burst from a long way
back when they headed for home, to
snatch second-money from Burnley.
Karachi looked sure to be improved
by the run.
In the couple of two-year-old events
over six furlongs, the nice stamp of
Ajax filly Portrait defeated Amused,
Lady Oxford and the rest of the
fillies; and Charioteer, a bay colt by
The Jeep-Lady Kuvera, had an all-
the-way win from Delta, Freyberg
and the other colts and geldings. A
9-furlongs Welter was won well by
the MacArthur-Grail Girl three-year-
old filly Persist, from the very con-
sistent Kelso stable.
♦ * ♦ ♦
For Rosehill (before accept-
ances): —
Two-year-old (fillies): Favor, 1;
Vicereine, 2; Mona’s Choice, 3.
Two-year-old (colts and geldings):
Achilles, 1; Huinmz, 2; Charioteer,
3. Parramatta Mixed: lolanda, 1;
Otairi, 2; Grey Boots, 3. Auburn
Mixed: Loyal, 1; Le Petit Due, 2;
Tamunga, 3. Flying: Bernbrook, 1;
“You don't think of ME having to go out with you looking
like that!”
Heroic Sovereign, 2; Deep Sea, 3.
March Handicap: Karachi, 1; Dyna-
mite, 2; Silent, 3. Welter Persist,
1; Deed, 2; Invictus, 3.
* * * *
The Melbourne yearling-sales at
Newmarket could not be called a
slump, but there was less snap in
the bidding, and there were no really
“fancy” prices—that is, compared
with recent somewhat hectic years.
The best, as was well warranted, in-
cluded 2500 guineas for a Dhoti colt.
A very interesting one, at the same
bid as the Dhoti, was a colt by High
Peak; the sire a magnificent stamp
of English horse whose blood will
almost certainly be better known here
in breeding and racing later on. The
sold High Peak colt is from Legality;
this is High Peak’s first year, and
there are no doubt other fine stock
of his.
♦ ♦ * *
“Long Leg”: With his playing togs
now definitely in mothballs, Bradman’s
performances in cricket are
worth summarising: in all matches he
scored 28,067 runs in 338 innings, 43
not outs, av. 95.11. He was 19
when he got started in first-class play
in 1927-8, scoring 416, av. 46.2;
since then his highest knocks have
been 452 not out (world’s record)
for N.S.W. v. Q. at Sydney, 1929-30;
369 for S.A. v. Tasmania at Adelaida,
1935-6; 357 for S.A. v. Vic. at Mel-
bourne, 1935-6; 340 for N.S.W. v.
Vic. at Sydney, 1928-9; and 334 for
Australia v. England at Leeds, 1930.
Twice he topped 1000 runs in Eng-
land in May—lool, av. 143.00, in
1930, and 1056, av. 150.85, in 1938.
Bradman throws in his cap at 40,
rather a youthful drop-out when
ranged alongside W. G. Grace, who
was still going strong when he called'
it “a day” twenty years older, after
having piled up 54,896 runs and taken
2876 wickets between 1865 and 1908.
♦ * ♦ ♦
“M.H.”: Lindsay Hassett (35
years) is among the middle-aged
group of captains at their start of
leading Australia in Test cricket.
Against England Billy Murdoch (25)
was the youngest; next, Percy
M'Donnell (26), H, J. Scott and Don
Bradman (28).
* * * *
“Mat”: Any yelp that present
Australian cricket tours are too exact-
ing is sheer bunkum. On the last
trip few players had more than
30 innings—about half that of the
“old days.” Billy Murdoch had 62
innings in 1878, 60 in 1880 and 61
in 1882; S. P. Jones and H. Scott
the record of 66 in 1886; and Harry
Trott 65 in 1888, 65 in 1890 and 61
in 1893. In 1888 Charlie Turner
had 60 innings and bowled 2589
overs for 314 wickets, while Jack
Ferris had 61 innings and 2222 overs
for 220 wickets. Since World War
I the most innings on tour are 44
by Andrews and Bardsley in 1921,
43 by J. Taylor in 1926, 38 by Brad-
man in 1930, 40 by Brown in 1934
and 46 by Badcock in 1938.
« * * *
“Pongo”: A Sydney daily recently
Ldescrihed F. C. V. Lane as “ Aus-
tralia’s first famous swimmer.”
.[Famous Lane certainly was. He was
'our first Olympic champion, the first
man to swim 100yds. in 60sec., and
the first to clip the minute officially.
But “Australia’s first famous swim-
mer” he was not by a long chalk.
At St. Kilda in 1858, Joseph Bennett,
a Sydney man, won a World’s
Championship race over 300yds. in
open water, defeating English cham-
pion Steedman. A. T. Kenney, of
Victoria, was the first Australian
swimmer to win an oversea title.
He visited the U.S.A. as a student
in the early ’nineties, won several
U.S.A. championships, and estab-
lished at least one world’s record.
W. J.' (Pat) Gormly, a N.S.W.
country youth, was champion of
Australasia in the early ’nineties, and,
after setting a world record for
the mile, was invited to compete in
America against fellow-Australian
Kenney. Prior to Kenney and
Gormly there was Ernie Cavill, who,
in 1888, created a world record for
1000yds. in Sydney, Another Cavill,
Percy, visited England in 1897 and
there outswam all-comers in the
English 440yds. and “Long Distance”
(5 miles 60yds.) championships.
English swimming-title events in those
days were recognised as world
championships.
* * * •
Boxing brilliantly, Billy Watson
(8.13 H outpointed Jackie Wilson
(8.13|) at Leichhardt —and Watson
could claim the Australian “feather”
championship if title-holder Eddie
Miller fails to meet him soon. Wit-
nesses of the Watson-Wilson scrap
saw 12 rounds of speedy action in
which, though Wilson forced the
fighting, Watson kept getting there
first with very fast lefts.


Jiij "HuA cvjyou/tj
u)Mw{Ut hmM~
(when they’re warm!)
;
m
m
vmmm&y. ■ ■
n
wsim
fc
iisi
■
m
'n
“Jt’s as cooling as an
ocean breeze on a hot day—
and popular!—one of the most
popular of all the coolers that have
Vickers Gin as a base. The gin gives
it a wonderful flavour. I won’t take
a moment to prepare it—then you
taste it. Make a note of the recipe
too —add it to your collection.’*
Into a long glass put
Two tablespoons of Vickers Gin.
One dessertspoonful powdered sugar.
Two tablespoons of fresh lemon juice.
Stir well and strain into another long
glass. Add a lump of ice and fill to
the top with ice-cold soda water.
SEND FOR THE FREE VICKERS GIN RECIPE BOOK
A request to The United Distillers Pty. Ltd.,
P.O, Box 759 G, Elizabeth Street, Melbourne,
will bring you FREE, an attractive book con-
taining 60 tested recipes for cocktails and
long drinks. Write for it now.
$
ICKERS GIN
FAMOUS SINCE 1750
VG2I/33
SAVE FOR THE THINGS YOU WANT—SAVE FOR SECURITY
YOU CAN DEPEND ON ROLLS
THE LIGHTER WITH THE
r ear
With every “Rolls” comes a guarantee
of free service for five years. This. with
tfie otfier outstanding Rolls fea-
tures—-fully automatic, wind
guard for all weatfier
use, everlasting glass
wick, recess for spare
flint, mechanism seal-
ing against evapora-
tion—-means a lighter
dependable all ways.
Streamlined models in
chromium, 37/6. Also
in rhodium and gold.
“Rolls" Flints. 6d. packet.
Divorce Notice.
TO ALBERT OYRIL REGISTER the hus-
band of PHYLLIS BERTHA REGISTER
of Tokoroa New Zealand Married Woman.
—TAKE NOTICE that a Petition by
PHYLLIS BERTHA REGISTER of Toko-
roa New Zealand praying for the dissolu-
tion of her marriage with you on the
ground of desertion has been filed in the
Supreme Court at Hamilton New Zealand
under No. D 2064 Unless you file an
answer and give an address for service
(as provided by the Rules of Court) in
the said Court at Hamilton New Zealand
within Forty days from the last publica-
tion of this advertisement (which will be
on the 25th day of March 1949) the peti-
tion will be heard and determined in your
absence Unless you give an address for
service the Petitioner is not required to
serve you with any further documents and
you will not be entitled to receive any
further notice in connection with the
proceedings If a decree for dissolution
of marriage is made such decree is a de-
cree nisi in the first place and until the
decree is made absolute by application
to the Court the marriage is not dis-
solved A decree nisi is not a defence to
a charge of bigamy. Copy of the said
petition will be supplied to you on your
applying for the same at the Supreme
Court Office at Hamilton New Zealand.
Dated this Eighth day of March, 1949. —
(1.5.) a. J. BENNETTS, Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly
requested to forward to him the fore-
going advertisement. JOHN ADRIAN
SPEER is the Solicitor for the Petitioner,
whose address for service is at the
offices of STRANG TAYLOR & SAND-
FORD, Solicitors, Victoria Street, Hamil-
New Zealand.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Want.
Lecturer, Sydney, Australian literary
topics, seeks evening engagements.
Moderate fees.—4588.
Bulletin staff man, Sydney, seeks
board and lodging, private family,
quiet northern suburbs. —4587.
To buy gramophone record of
song “My Rainbow.” —4586.
Information Sought.
How can I prevent the water turn-
ing green in a goldfish glass tank?
Water is changed every week. Is this
due to want of plant life, and, if so,
what species?
Green water is caused by minute
algre spores which form and develop
in water subjected to the sun’s rays
or even good daylight. Although
unsightly, it is rather beneficial to
fish-life while the algae are alive and
in the green state, but should they
die and turn brown it is dangerous.
Aquatic plants are necessary in an
aquarium to supply oxygen, and re-
quire a good light, but not too much
direct sunlight. To prevent the for-
mation of algae the tank should be in
a very subdued light, but then the
plants will not thrive. Better to
tolerate the green water and have the
plants flourish. Algae will sometimes
form on the glass, where they may
easily be wiped off, and sometimes
they form and permeate the water;
in this case they may be removed
only by draining off. It is not a
good practice to change the water too
frequently. A well-set-up tank, '.ay
about 12 by 12 by 24 inches, should
carry on for a year, occasionally
siphoning accumulated silt and re-
placing the water.
* * * *
Appropriate aboriginal name for
well-grassed property in plain country,
with sandy and stony ridges and
flowing water?
Merrigum, Woolandoon, little plain;
Winderlup, permanent stream; Gul-
goa, river running through; Allowrie,
Allomba, Beataloo, Billeroy, Bingara,
Broula, Gudunda, all meaning spring
or creek; Boonal, Gilba, grass;
Dunoon, ridge; Awaba, plain.
* * * *
(1) Can a person plead guilty to
a charge of murder? (2) What is
the general court procedure if such a
plea is entered?
(1) Yes, but although a Judge can-
not refuse to accept the plea he
usually draws the accused’s attention
to the consequences of the plea, the
seriousness of the crime and its
penalty, and advises him to withdraw
the plea of “guilty” and plead “not
guilty.” (2) If the accused persists
in his plea of “guilty” the jury is
discharged, the Judge hears the facts
alleged and passes sentence. If an
accused stands mute or refuses to
plead, a plea of “not guilty” is en-
tered for him by the proper officer
of the court. If a doubt arises as to
the ability of the accused to plead a
jury is empanelled to try the ques-
tion. If the verdict is that he is able
to plead, his plea is taken; if to the
contrary, a plea of “not guilty” is
entered for him.
Recipe for billsticker’s paste?
Heat one quart of water, stir in
3oz. of alum till dissolved (do not
boil), then add flour slowly till mix-
ture has a creamy consistency; finally
bring to boil, stirring well till thick.
If a little oil of cloves and resin is
stirred in just before the mixture
boils this paste will keep well.
* * * *
Is the well-known cheese dish
Welsh “rarebit” or “rabbit” ?
Original name for the dish (in
1725) was Welsh rabbit, and is so
designated in all old recipe books.
But later (in 1785) it was colloquially
labelled Welsh rarebit by Francis
Grose in his Classical Dictionary of
the Vulgar Tongue, and the name
stuck. All the standard dictionaries
support the use of the original word.
Chambers’s describes rarebit as “an
erroneous form of rabbit”; Oxford
labels it an “etymologising altera-
tion” ; Webster’s International says it
is “sometimes erroneously called
rarebit”; and Fowler advises the use
of rabbit, not rarebit.
* * * •
(1) Who composed “Advance Aus-
tralia Fair" ? (2) When ? (3) Where
was it first performed ?
(1) Words and music were com-
posed by Peter Dodds McCormick.
(2) Probably in 1878. (3) It was sung
by Andrew Fairfax at a Scottish con-
cert in Sydney on November 30,
1878. Also on, Easter Monday, 1880,
at the Garden Palace, Sydney; the
programme states that the song was
performed with band and full chorus,
conducted by the composer, Mr.
McCormick. Copyright was regis-
tered by McCormick about that
time.
Some information regarding the
life of Robert Towns, after whom
Townsville (Q.) is named?
Robert Towns was born on No-
vember 10, 1794, at Longhorsely,
Northumberland, and died on April
4, 1873, at his residence, Cranbrook,
Rose Bay, Sydney. He became a
sea-captain and established a mercan-
tile house in Sydney, employed many
vessels in the island trade, entered
largely into pastoral pursuits and held
a number of stations in the north of
Australia. He was the first to intro-
duce cotton cultivation. In 1861 a
port was established at Bowen and
Woodstock station was taken up by
R. Towns, J. M. Black and Andrew
Stewart. Towns wished to establish
a boiling-down works, and as he
had some thousands of acres on the
shores of Cleveland Bay, the works
went there, and so Townsville was
commenced in 1863.
* * * *
What are the characteristics of the
bullrout and the Queensland stone-
fish, and are they dangerous ?
The bullrout is capable of inflict-
ing a painful wound by means of
spines situated in front of the eyes.
The spines can be erected at will.
Although they may cause sharp pain
and some local swelling, they are not
regarded as serious. The stonefish,
however, is probably the most poi-
sonous fish in the world. Situated
along the back are 13 spines, each of
which is provided with a venom
gland. When these spines enter the
flesh venom is carried along grooves
in their sides, and serious results are
almost bound to follow. The poison
is a nerve poison, and there is no
known antidote to it. Many fatalities
have been recorded as a result of
attacks by stonefish.
* * * «
What is the extent of “the great
Australian artesian basin'’ ?
It includes considerably more than
one half of Queensland, taking in
most of the State lying west of the
Great Dividing Range, with the ex-
ception of an area in the north-west
contiguous to the N.T.; a consider-
able strip of N. S. Wales along its
northern boundary and west of the
Great Dividing Range; and the north-
eastern part of S.A., together with the
extreme south-eastern corner of the
N.T, It comprises an area of about
600.000 square miles—376,ooo in
Queensland, 118,000 in S.A., 80,000
in N. S. Wales and 25,000 in the N.T.
The area of the intake is estimated at
60.000 miles —50,000 in Queensland
and 10,000 miles in N. S. Wales.
* * * *
(1) A few points to did in the
selection of a Newfoundland dog?
(2) Is it a useful dog?
(1) Desirable points are a broad,
massive head and flat skull, well-
ribbed body and muscular hind-
quarters and a deep, broad chest.
Twenty-seven inches is a good average
height for a dog and 25 inches for a
bitch. Respective weights should be
from 1401 b. to 1501 b. and from 1101 b.
to 1201 b. (2) In its native home it
was, and still is, a worker. Imported
into other countries it is used merely
as a companion and guard. It is
one of the finest of water-dogs.
* * * *
My calendula plants are showing
signs of yellow-dust spores on their
leaves. Remedy, please ?
The plants are affected with rust.
Cut off all badly-affected leaves and
burn them, then dust the plants with
flowers of sulphur or spray them with
lime-sulphur (one part in 50 parts of
water) twice a week. If these mea-
sures are not effective dig out the
plants, soak the soil with strong
permanganate of potash solution and
leave the area fallow for at least a
month before restocking with phlox,
nemesia, dianthus or plants not sub-
ject to the disease.
Brief Answers.
H.K.R.: A reliable account—entitled
“The Blood-bath at Cowra” by E. V.
Timms—appears in the Australian
War Memorial’s publication, “As You
Were” (1946), on pp. 175-180. The
details in this article will give you
all the information you need
J.A.K.; Write Goodall and Co., 301
Kent-street, Sydney W.L.H.: (1)
Not to that extent, though the situa-
tion may deteriorate further than at
present. (2) Would depend on many
factors at the time. In the past the
reaction has often been sudden and
extreme —into depressed conditions
lasting from five to ten years. (3)
May modify insurance benefits, not
wipe them out. (4) Should be pos-
sible. (5) and (6) Long-term proposi-
tions are suggested in the Bulletin
from time to time. Consult a mem-
ber of the Stock Exchange... .E.R.:
Write Water Conservation and Irriga-
tion Commission, Farrer-place, Syd-
ney. .. .R.C.W.: Write A. Yates and
Co., 184 Sussex-street, Sydney, or
Annand and Robinson, Toowoomba
(Q.) R.M.S.: Harry Stone beat
Llew Edwards for the Australian
lightweight championship in 1917,
and lost the title to Sid Godfrey in
1921. Stone was born in New York
on March 4, 1889, and is now living
at Marrickville (N.5.W.)... .J.C.W.:
See your solicitor or apply to Arthur
Rickard and Co., Ltd. (in liq.),
55 York-street, Sydney. Cost and
time depend on nature of title,
purchase price and other factors....
A.C.W.: (1) Yes. (2) No. Exempt
if fund is for bona fide educational
purposes.


She understood too poignantly. We went
to bed, lulled by the melody. And in the
morning it was. raining still.
The creek came down a banker, every
dam and waterhole was brimming, run-
ning over. The dejected gums, washed
clean again, turned their leaves, gave a
shake and a shuffle and invited us to look
at them now.
T HE breaking of the 1902 drought was
A rejoicing pure and unalloyed. It was
shared by all, man and beast and bird
and insect; tree and shrub and the seeds
of grass resurrecting after their long
burial in the dust . . . Men rode to town
that Sunday morning shouting like
children at a break-up, “The drought's
broke! The drought’s broke!” They
galloped their horses in wild career —
heaven knows where the gallop could
come from. In town people flocked to the
river to see the flood roaring and rolling
to the west. Church-bells rang a never-
merrier peal and thanksgiving services
were held.
Two children were drowned in the
river near the town, and so was a stock-
man many miles lower down when he
tried to cross the river. Sad events these,
but, after all, sacrifices to the rain-gods..
And they couldn’t have' been drowned —
could they?—if the drought hadn’t
broken , . . The big storekeeper in his
pleasure was almost beautiful to behold
—an everlasting vista of prosperity open-
ing before him —credit, now strained to
cracking-point, all the “carrying” and
“backing,” and the painful “refusing”—
finished with, finished with ; at least the
end of them in sight . . .
Some squatters and near-squatters,
some bank-managers, a sporting doctor,
the C.P.S. and the P.M. and the Inspector
of Police forgathered at the town’s
leading hostelry—the Golden West —and
got very respectably drunk.
That was the yarn, anyway. Old Father
Meehan was said to have’joined them—
some said that he tried to f stop them
getting any drunker, and others said he
got properly squiffed himself.
At the Selectors’ Arms, the Miners’
Arms, the Westminster and the Lord Car-
rington many thanked God —and got less
respectably drunk . , .
Old hands recalled other droughts and
other floods and argued and wrangled
with those who had not qualified as old-
timers. And some old hands —over
Murphy’s beer, or Ryan’s whisky-
avowed that the seasons were altering all
right, and there’d be a run of good
seasons now —you’d see —and, yes, I
wouldn’t mind another, but it isn’t your
shout, is it? And other old hands
croaked like grandfather frog under our
tank-stand and declared the next drought
was just round the comer . . .
There have been many droughts since,
some very terrible ones, and in their
lasting and irreparable damage worse
than the ’O2. But we are a race of city-
dwellers now, and experience neither the
worst terrors of the drought nor the
ecstasies at its breaking . . .
RAIN in Sydney! There is never a rain
in Sydney that has full and general
appreciation, no matter how long the dry
spell has been. But there were the lovely,
effortless February showers those
sudden tropical downpours that come
from half-clouded skies. They might last
five minutes or half an hour; and then
the sun would shine again on the glis-
tening, clean wood-blocks and asphalt, and
white vapor would rise from their healed
surface. You can cross the street now,
you’d say, that shower is over, thank
goodness. And so it was, but as like as
not the next one caught you before you
reached the other side. Where have such
rains gone?
Something, too, would seem to have
gone awry with the southerly buster. It
comes but rarely now, where once its cool
hand was laid on the city’s; hot brow at
the close of every scorching day. A
romping, robustious fellow was the old
southerly, a bit rough at times, not exactly
well-brought-up, but marvellously full of
good intentions. He was a welcome and
frequent visitor then. Now he just sneaks
in, hang-dog fashion, not at the close of
the day, but during the night, next morn-
ing, next day—always late when he
comes at all.
SUNDAY, and a party of us camped
in a cave on the sou’-west arm of
Port Hacking. All day, without a single
second’s intermission, the rain fell,
straight down in an almost solid wall.
A recording taken a few miles away
made that day’s fall a trifle over thirteen
inches. Thirteen inches! In one day!
There are parts of Australia where that
would be a three-year allowance. We
sat in the cave and watched the rain and
the white curtain of water that cascaded
over the front of the cave; we shifted
positions as new drips developed in crack
and crevice of the roof; we shifted gear
as two small underground streams gushed
out from the back of the cave ; we kept
the fire going and boiled tea and dodged
more drips and spurts, and looked at the
rain.
We talked —airily enough—about get-
ting home that night: we had to get
home for work next day; one of us
stripped right down to sandshoes and
bailed out the boat with a billy—the boat
would have sunk otherwise.
And it still rained —as if’the skies had
sucked up all the seas and would never
cease spilling them over the land. All
round was a dull, heavy roaring of water,
and dimly, on the high, steep hill before
us, we could see the white water rushing
in fierce torrents to the bay.
We set out at last, soaked to' skin, de-
spite overcoats and groundsheets, in a
few minutes. As we rowed down the arm
we could see the hills more plainly, and
there were hundreds of torrents, foaming,
deep, making wild music of a guttural
sort. Hundreds of them where we had
never seen water run before.
At Lilli Pilli Flats we tasted the waters
of Port Hacking and found no salt in
them. At Lilli Pilli, too, ugly whirlpools
had developed—swirling round with
great masses of the flood’s harvest from
debris of leaves to great dead logs of
trees. But we got through and arrived
at Yowie,
AT the end of 1919 four of us went on
a prospecting expedition to Nerriga—a
small place of faded glory with only
the dimmest of echoes of the Roaring
Days. But a beautiful spot —especially
the Beulie River, a mile or two on the
Nowra side of the tiny village. There is
a fearsome sort of coach road from the
top of the Pigeonhouse Mountains to
the Beulie, a clear stream, one of the
most perfect I know. It ambles and
canters and gallops; it rears and chafes
and foams at the dark bar of slate ; and
then wildly leaps into a deep, mysterious
gorge.
We arrived at the Beulie at dusk —early
dusk and skies lowering. Before the tent
was properly fixed the drought broke
with a grand mountain storm —the very
hills seemed to topple over, and the
ground beneath us to tremble.
That storm was the prelude to many
more, and then to weeks of rain. Feet of
rain, and the Beulie, clear still with all
its flood, chafed no more at the slaty
bar—it just went over it. The Falls
became half-brother to the Barron in its
wet season. A thin soft mistiness like a
gauze filled the valley, and through it
loomed the bold hills like the capes and
headlands of some high shore.
We got very little gold—and that mat-
tered little. Anyway, there wasn’t much
gold to get —the diggers of the ’fifties
(and since) saw to that. But we saw the
flats and slopes turn to green, a soft
golden green that was almost unearthly,
and yet gloriously earthly, too.
WE had to walk back to Nowra —43
miles of it. Our “mining gear” and
other heavy stuff we left for a carrier to
bring along when the fancy took him,
and he happened to remember. For a
month or more we had been chanting—
“ Walking back to Nowra in the rain.”
And that we did.
After leaving Sassafras, at the top of
the range, the rain set in, steady and
soaking. We sloshed through it, all day
long ; and sodden, steamy evening found
us sloshing still. The road was just a
trench with that gloomiest of vegetation
as its sides —tea-tree, with gnarled and
twisted stringybark for even more
cheerless change. Darkness came out of
the ground and out of the scrub, and
we could see nothing, nothing at all.
Only our feet could see the road. And the
feet worked independently of any will-
power. Time and the world had vanished,
and we were wraiths moving in the soak-
ing blackness. We were afraid to camp
—to rest in the wet state we were in.
We just tramped and splashed. We had a
small dog—Australian coarse-hair terrier.
Paddy was a piece of pomp and conse-
quence in daylight. But now he wept and
whimpered. He said it was awful —that
his poor feet were raw —that the mos-
quitoes were eating him alive—that he
had aches and pains everywhere —and
that it wasn’t fair. He begged and
pleaded with us to stop —to do something
about the mosquitoes. We walked in
pairs, with perhaps 20 yards between
first and last. And that upset Paddy,
too ; he wanted us to walk together. He
used up quite a deal of his failing
strength complaining about it, and run-
ning back and forth —telling the last pair
to hurry up, and the front pair to slow
down. I had never heard a dog get so
close to human weeping a§ he did, or to
human swearing.
At last, after nearly 40 miles of tramp-
ing, two of us cracked up and could
tramp no more. They said they wanted
to die —just by way of a change. We
spread out the wet tent-fly on the high
side of the road and they fell on it and
went straight to sleep. Paddy crawled
under the fly, and grizzled more miser-
ably than ever when he found the mos-
quitoes refused to recognise the exist-
ence of the fly. The other two of us
groped and felt till we found an old lean-
ing stringy, and gathered dry bark, and
made a fire. We made tea —horrible tea,
for the water became brackish as soon
as it lay on the ground—and we drank
tea and mosquitoes.
And it kept on raining, raining as if to
say there’d never be another drought.
No, never. And despite all determina-
tion not to, we slept, too. What the mos-
quitoes did to us then we’ll never know.
Next morning the sun broke through
the clouds and shone hotly upon us.
Punctured, sucked out, creaking, we
limped into Nowra . . .
THAT day and night of rain and end-
lessness I repeated years after in Ire-
land. I set out on my bike from Tralee
and rode all day on that level road by
the broad Shannon. A soft rain—gentle
as pity—dropped from the grey sky.
I had intended staying at Limerick the
night, but the larger Irish towns distressed
and depressed me. And Limerick in the
rain looked no better than the resj; of
them. I pushed on and lost count of the
miles and the goats comfortably shelter-
ing on the windowsills of cottages.
There was a small, village called Bird-
hill in front of me arid I’d stay the night
there. Darkness closed in with heavier
rain. Came Birdhill at last and the
promise of food and shelter. But it was
in the days of the Throuble, Big trouble
this time, and far worse and more excit-
ing than the Black and Tans ever were;
or any other trouble that has made the
Irish such a cheerful and hopeful people.
Just now they were staging a fine large
civil war on their own account. At least
the civil war was officially over, but in
the west they didn’t believe it entirely.
I went into the noisy bar-room of the
pub, and the noise dropped to an ominous
silence. Twenty pairs of eyes took me in
with the uttermost of hostility.
Could I stay the night? Himself said
only one word with the finality of a
dingo-trap —NO. Could I get a meal?
Again the trap went off —NO. I felt my-
self covered with eyes. Birdhill was no
place to stay.
The next town was fifteen or so miles
on —Nenagh, A big place really, and
the name was at once an invitation and
a caress,
I never rode with a lamp at any time,
and never felt the need of one. Now it
was very dark in the rain, but a peculiar
luminous sort of darkness. A whiteness
through which you couldn’t see. The
road beneath me was quite invisible, but
it had a wretched surface, all pools and
potholes and occasionally large, loose
stones. But I didn’t fall, and didn’t even
think of it. As I pedalled along came the
weird impression that I was the only
living soul in the whole wide world, and
that 1 was riding along the very ridge of
the earth’s surface and always about to
ride over the rim of its curvature.'
Nenagh—of the lovely name—grew
out of the murk at last. It was strongly
held by the National Guard, and I found
these men kindness itself.
In the morning the sun shone from
the softness of an Irish sky, and I rode
over the broad, green plain of Northern
Tipperary—low hills to southward with
masses of lazy white clouds resting on
them ...
RAIN in London! A cheerless, re-
sentful sort of rain. Endless drizzle
of it. Strangely enough, London has
little more than half of Sydney’s rain—
reckoned in the sheer deception of inches,
but ten times as much by any other
standard. It can rain day and night with-
out ceasing for a whole week, and not
register an inch. I lived in Westminster,
about midway between the fading glories
of Belgrave-square and the franker com-
monness of Lupus-street.
And when it stopped Londoners were
full of excitement to see the sun again.
London is a wonderful -place and the
finest city there has ever been, but its
sunshine is no part of its greatness.
A storm is gathering as I write, over
the low heights of Castle Hill; and it
may and it mayn’t. At any rate, I hope it
does. Hope to hear the splash of Vain on
the roof. To smell the wetting of hot dust
and dried grass. To go to sleep with the
music in my ears.
Joe thought he might as well have a
bite to eat. In contrast to his early-
morning mood, he was now calm, full of
peace. He had cursed the storm and the
river every way he knew how, cursed it
with a desperate completeness, then the
utter futility of his anger swept through
him, and away. He sat, not moving
except to fill and light his pipe.
He stirred himself out of his lethargy,
raked the ashes of the fire into a glow,
and set the billy swinging. He looked
about the room with new eyes. He was
sure that if the rain did not let up around
five o’clock, neither he nor the house
would see the night out. He wished he
had read something about floods so that
he could remember what the people did.
But he imagined that they just sat and
watched.
AT four o’clock, Joe could see the
water across the valley without stand-
ing up. Must be a cloudburst, he thought
idly. Never heard a flood like this . . .
From where he sat it seemed that
the house was set on the shore of a lake.
He couldn’t see too clearly in the gloom
across to the opposite slopes, but he
knew that the few head of stock he had
in the top paddock on that side must be
gone. He thought of the whole valley
brimming with water . . . They can’t call
it Adams’ Gully now, he thought. .It’s
Adams’ Lake, seven miles long and a
hundred feet deep! V
Joe filled his pipe again and went out
on to the verandah. The flood was a
majestic, awesome sight, and he was rather
sorry that there was no one else to see it.
The whole house was shuddering
gently; the edge of the boiling lake was
a mere ten feet below the shelf on which
the house was built. It won’t be long now,
Joe thought. He turned his back, walked
slowly inside. He was closing the warped
old door when the rain stopped. Just like
that. It just stopped.
JOE thought that his eyes had gone,
were playing tricks on him. But he
didn’t close the door. He went on to the
verandah again, and held out his hand.
The rain had stopped. Already the sky
was lighter than it had been all day.
And so Joe knew that this was not the
end.
The flood continued to rise for the next
hour, until the fringe of the waters lapped
the bottom of the three steps to the
verandah. The solid rock on which the
house sat shivered like a live thing, but
Joe was not the least worried. It had
been touch and go, but he knew that the
danger had passed. With the rain stopped,
the valley would empty as though it were
a bath from which the plug had been
pulled. The light began to fade again
just before six, and already the flood had
dropped a foot.
Joe pumped up the lamp. He pulled
the mutton shoulder out of the flour-bag,
neatly cut four slices. The billy was
bubbling. Half an hour later he was
back in June Forsyte’s studio on the
Thames, muttering away to himself in his
best style. He got you in, this bloke
Galsworthy . . .


ONE THING IS CERTAIN
When shearing is over and the last load moves away from the shed, do you
know how much your wool will bring when the bidding starts?
One thing is certain. A.M.L.&F.’s wise valuing, careful lotting and attractive
display, combined with the expert and experienced service of the A.M.L.&F.
auctioneer, will draw the highest possible bid for your wool.
Small clip or large, consign it to A.M.L.&F., the organisation with 85 years of
wool-selling experience.
85 Years in the Service of the Man on the Land.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance Coy. ltd.
Inc, in England in 1863,
4 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches at Newcastle, Wagga, Moree, Henty and Hay.
A 19.22
The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
grinder discs—recommended for shearing-shed work.
1
I
40z., Boz., 160 z., 1 gallon sizes ... Hardware and general stores.
For immediate delivery contact
Famous British
ENGINES
NOW
AVAILABLE
at
REDUCED
PRICES
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY. LTD.
’PHONE: MA 6311 7-11 MARKET ST., SYDNEY
HANDY
HINTS
for the
FARM
A
Thousand Ways
of
Improving Yields
and
Reducing Costs
Wheat, Sheep, Cattle, Pigs, Poultry, Horses, Fruit and
Vegetables, the Apiary, and General Farm Activities.
Price
One Shilling
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.
252 George Street, Sydney.
THE WAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Cattle for the Tropics.
“C. Punch”: J. L. Wilson, the
Calliope (Q.) cattlebreeder, has
told Sydney R.A.S. that after
40 years of experience in the
tropical parts of Queensland he
is convinced that by selection
among British breeds cattle-rais-
ing there can be made a good
thing. He has found that by
keeping to one pure breed,
though not necessarily any one
breed, on 90 p.c. calvings, fat
bullocks dressing 7001 b. average
at cold weight when four years
old, and dressing over 95 p.c.
first-export quality, can be
reared and fattened on natural
pastures, even within the tick
areas.
Wilson insists on bulls of
docile type, with robust consti-
tution and good conformation.
He believes in culling to fix the
type. Ample good water within
easy distance of the grazing
grounds and reasonably-sized
paddocks to give a dean muster
are other essentials. He believes
that most Queensland cattle
herds today are of the best
quality ever seen in Queensland.
The Calliope man condemns
those breeders who think that
cheap, inferior bulls, whether
pure or crossbred, and bulls of
foreign breed, can offset lack of
proper cattle care, development
of cpuntry, water-shortage, bad
mustering and general careless-
ness.
Right selection from the
various British breeds and right
treatment of sires and herds
mean success. The former is
helped by the shows and sales
of cattle, and the latter can be
attained by following the ex-
ample of men who’ve made a do
of it. A successful cattleman
is no more “lucky” than a suc-
cessful businessman; in fact,
“luck” has far less to do with
cattle than with commercialism.
The Shearing-machine.
“C.A.A.”: Care of shearing-
machine gut-cores means con-
siderable saving. Before the
tube is assembled over the long
gut-core the bayonet-point of
the core should be attached to
the friction-spindle catch. Grease
the core lightly and soften it by
twisting it with the hand. After
straightening and softening, give
it a final light coating of grease.
All gut-cores benefit from light
greasing every two or three days
while in use. To avoid a broken
core after assembly on the
bracket slacken the top wing-
nut on the tube top-sleeve to
allow the long tube to drop as
far as it will go. Raise the
tube lin. to iin. and tighten the
top wing-nut.
In repairing a break, make
sure the core is the same length
as a new one. This may necessi-
tate splicing in not less than an
additional 2in. of core. Make
sure that the damaged end of
the old core is cut back to the
solid. Nails of the right diameter
may be used as rivets. Cut
them off flush on both sides of
the ferrule before riveting.
Damage may also be caused to
gut-cores by pushing oilcan
spouts too far into the holes. To
prevent damage by rats hang
spare gut-cores inside a length
of piping.
Wool-brands.
“A.M.M.”: The New Zea-
land Government, to protect the
interests of woolgrowers, has
“One thing, we oughtn't to be troubled by rabbits this season."
decreed that all sheep-branding
fluids must consist only of in-
gredients which can be easily
removed by scouring, and every
tin of branding fluid is passed
and labelled to that effect by
the Government. This ensures
that the grower will not be the
loser of a large amount of un-
wanted wool from each sheep’s
back.
Time is lost during sorting
and at scouring plants over per-
sistent brands. Right through
each process to the finished
cloth material must be checked
and rechecked for brand spots.
When competition from syn-
thetics is so keen, when every
such article is marketed guaran-
teed free from impurities, the
wool industry can ill afford to
lose both money and prestige.
A scourable brand means more
prestige to the woolgrower, more
confidence from the buyer and
therefore a better price.
I Millet Pays.
“Plain Jane”; It is playing a
more and more important part
in farming budgets here (N.S.W,
north coast), where it grows to
remarkable height. Sown in
August or early September,
according to weather, millet is
ready for harvesting in late
January to mid-February. The
crops from December on make
seas of rich color. The plant
grows to high, the festoons
of grain may be from lOin. to
12in. long. Millet is fairly
drought-resisting and each part
has its use. The grain is excel-
lent poultry feed, and, Crushed,
makes good sheep or cattle
fodder when well compressed.
The long festoons, stripped of
grain, make the homely house-
broom. The millet crop bends
before wind and heavy rain and
is not beaten down as are many
others. Its pliability gives it
force to rise again, even after
being seemingly flattened. Stems
and leaves make good chaff, and
the roots are simply ploughed
in after harvest to help build up
the soil.
Dusting Lucerne with D.D.T.
“Agric”; The Scottish-Aus-
tralian Co., Ltd., Texas (Q.),
dusted 100 acres of lucerne
with D.D.T. from the air to
defeat an invasion of caterpillars.
The lucerne was to be harvested
for seed. After waiting a few
days for the right weather, and
rising at 3.30 a.m. for three
mornings, East-West Airlines
staff had to do the job without
the desired calm conditions
materialising. This gave the
caterpillars an advantage, and
it is thought that probably 20 to
40 per cent, of the seed was lost,
but, in spite of this, the job is
thought to be very satisfactory.
The D.D.T. cost 16s, per acre
and the plane cost 10s. per acre,
but lucerne seed is worth
from £l2 to £2O per bag,
and an acre will yield any-
thing from one to : five bags.
It was the success which attended
the dusting of linseed from the
air for the same caterpillar—the
corn-ear worm which con-
vinced the manager (J. H.
Brewer) that the experiment was
worth a trial. He is satisfied
with the results.
Dingo-fences.
“J.S.L.”: As lam on the edge
of the sheep country in n.-w.
Queensland, I was rather in-
terested about the dingo-fence
and the information I received
was from State Lands Minister
Foley himself. The Federal Gov-
ernment would not allow the
wool-profits fund money to be
used because it would be illegal.
There is evidently a contract in
existence which states that the
distribution of profits is to be
among wool-sellers (under the
appraisement scheme) only. In
my opinion this is only fair, as
many woolgrowers have since
gone out of business and
many others have no trouble
from dingoes. So payment is
going to be made by levy on
those graziers who do benefit,
which is only right, and as I
benefit, the levy payment suits
me fine.
Dingoes played the devil with
my flock during the war. We
have got on top of them since,
but odd dogs get a few sheep
even now. These dogs are mostly
travellers, which follow the Gulf
cattle in through Haddington
and into Julia Creek.
Until I saw the plan, I was
rather against the idea. However,
at varying intervals along the
fence there is to be accommoda-
tion for boundary-riders, trappers
and other employees, and if men
are available the fence could be
kept in good condition and the
dingoes, a few of which
will be fenced in in the
area, could be destroyed in
time. Destroying the dingoes
remaining in the area will be
the hardest job. Good “doggers”
are just about extinct, and most
of those left are of the old-age-
pension group and getting too
old to work, although the old
coves will never admit it. It
takes a real bushman to catch a
clever dog, so here’s hoping that
before the fence is finished we
get some really good young
bushmen, who can be interested
in catching dingoes. One really
can’t assess the value of a really
good “dogger.” For instance,
one morning before sunrise an
Alsatian-dingo cross dog with
a black sheep bitch gone wild
rounded up and killed and
maimed 60 full-woolled fat
wethers. They were not a par-
ticularly clever pair, as they were
both caught fairly easily. Those
sheep would be worth at least
£lBO today. For absolute
savagery I have never seen any-
thing like the way the Alsatian
cross worked. From each at-
tacked sheep’s wither a great
hole was literally torn out.
Pawpaw Disease.
“No Sirrah”: Pawpaw-trees
on this peninsula suffer from a
mysterious disease. It starts with
the leaves withering away and
dropping, and the whole tree
finally drooping and dying. As
the land is rather waterlogged
the theory was that the trees
were dying from “wet feet” —a
condition which is almost
chronic.
But a leading commercial
grower claims that it is a blight
similar to that which affects
tomatoes and potatoes. He says
that a tree can be healthy over-
night, and in the morning the
leaf-stem bases will be perfectly
black. This, he says, is the
blight. ,
His cure is simple. As soon
as he discovers the black leaf-
base he cuts through the branch,
or, if necessary, the trunk, a foot
below the affected area. He then
dusts the wound with powdered
sulphur. I inspected upwards of
30 trees in his plantation, all of
which had had the disease and
showed signs of drastic surgery,
yet were bearing well.
He is keen on hilling-up
around the base of pawpaw-
trees, even when they are very
young. This, he says, not only
enables surplus water to run
away, thus preventing “wet feet,”
but also encourages the roots to
grow near the surface and make
best use of available food. The
spreading, near-surface roots are
those which feed the fruit; the
main root feeds the trunk and
limbs. Another advantage from
hilling-up is that it prevents the
trees growing too high ; a fact
y/hich lowers picking costs.
Willows for Stock.
“Mr.”: They provide a use-
ful reserve when green paddock
feed is scarce, and in chemical
analyses made by the Victorian
Department of Agriculture com-
pare well with mixed pasture.
Figures for willow and pasture
respectively: Moisture content
68 p.c. and 80 p.c., ash 3 and 2.3,
crude protein 7.5 and 5.6, crude
fat 0.9 and 1.1, crude fibre 3.8
and 3.2, carbohydrate 16.8 and
7.8. Respective food values:
Starch equivalent (willow) 18.0
and (pasture) 14 p.c., protein
equivalent 5.1 and 4.5. Leaves
and twigs are best fed to stock
with pasture hay, and a dairy-
cow can be given up to 201 b. a
day with good results.
Willows will stand up to fre-
quent and severe lopping,
though it’s best not to touch
them in a fair-to-good season
when other feed is available. In
good years it’s wise to put in a
few branches along gullies and
around dams. If they’re not
needed for feed they will grow
into excellent shelter and add
character and beauty to the
landscape.
Water-inflation.
“Carlyle”: Recent experiments
by tyre manufacturers indicate
that soon all tractor tyres may
be filled with water. Tractors
so equipped slip less, ride easier
and under certain conditions
have an increased drawbar pull
of almost 7cwt. Water, by in-
creasing the weight of the tyre.


duplicator
Bos all the finest features
ol high-priced imported
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
t PRICES ON
APPLICATION
machines at only a frac-
tion of their cost. The
“National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce
Typing. Writing. Plans,
Music, etc.
Built entirely in Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
lhseribatir\g Agents—
BTDNET w. C. Penfold & Co. Pty. ltd
MELBOURNE . Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd
ADELAIDE . . Vardon & Sons Ltd
ute> cs i&LeL
FACING A PARK
The one thing yoa will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the \Ventworth Is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and hustle. . . . The
Wentworth faces a part . . . yet
it is merely “round the corner”
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are all you would wish
. . . the service and cuisine
excellent.
IKE WENTWORTH
In
’Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan. Managing Director
THE HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
The self-contained, self-emptying
Sanitary System.
Est. 1927.
Imitation is Sincerest Flattery
Beware of imitations similar in appear-
ance but lacking the Internal patent
which makes the Hygeia Dissolvenator
so efficient.
Intending purchasers are invited to in-
vestigate the integrity of the Hygeia
Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd., the bona fldes of
the Hygeia Dissolvenator, as well as the
value and scope of the Hygeia Guarantee
compared with any other guarantee.
The Hygeia Guarantee includes 7 years
against corrosion.
Let the record of the 12,000 Dissol-
venators sold during the past 22 years
be your guide—do not be misled by
specious statements.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 20 years.
DISTRIBUTORS;
NJ3.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Qatentland: Hygeia Dlssolvenators (Qld.),
609 Colonial Mutual Building, Queen
Bt., Brisbane.
Victoria: Hygeia Dlssolvpnators (Vic.)
Pty., Dtd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
flouth Australia; Hygeia Dissolvenator Co.,
(S.A.), Edment's Building, Bundle
St., Adelaide.
Wtitem Australia: R. P- Mclnemey &
Co., Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
Tasmania: Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd., Laun-
ceston and Hobart.
Darwin; 0. T, See Kee, Badoleetrix Sales
and Services.
Sf
\
NEEDS RELIABLE TRUCK SERVICE
Investigate Now—international
TRUCK MAINTENANCE SERVICE . . .
... at all International Harvester
Metropolitan Distributors, Country
Dealers and Company Branch Houses
Road transport by motor
truck, from city to country and
country to city, is vital to our trans-
portation services . . . Perishable
foods must move quickly to con-
sumers: regular supplies of raw
materials must be hauled from farms,
forests and mines to processing and
manufacturing centres . . . Strict time
schedules must be maintained . . .
And this needs reliable truck main-
tenance service.
International T ruck Maintenance
Service, regularly carried out,
lengthens truck life. It catches truck
troubles when they are little—pre-
vents major failures, enables trucks to operate better and speed
deliveries. It pays every way, on every trip. Take advantage
of it now. Give your trucks the best so they can give the best
to you. Give them International Truck Maintenance Service .
0
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY, LTD. (INC. IN VIO.I
BRANCHES IN ALL CAPITAL CITIES. FACTORY! GEELONG
■
international Engineered Truck
Parts—
They fit more accurately,
wear better, last longer.
New improvements intro-
duced into current production.
tKTEBHMTIOHAL^VnUCItS
there
a little
t
in your etevaiort
.not
niottt.
aNO
BlOH*
ttcS
lS«t^
*xo* T
Architects and construction engineers who
write into their specifications, “Lifts (or
Escalators) by Waygood-Otis,” are assured
of specifying the finest in vertical
transportation.
Every component we make, every lift or
escalator we install, is planned from the design
stage, through production to construction
and final erection and installation, to give the
most and to last the longest.
Whether it’s installing the new, modernising
the old—or in maintenance service—Waygood*
Otis vertical transportation best serves the
architect or the owner.
«
A
W AYGOO.D-
STOREY
PERT
ci^S
AN®
ff'VIB
(Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
rri
in Victoria
ilili
incorporated
MELBOURNE . ADELAIDE • BRISBANE
• HOBART • NEWCASTLE
ensures a better grip and reduces
slippage, thus prolonging the life
of the tyre. The use of calcium
chloride with water gives further
increase in weight and prevents
the water from freezing.
Water - inflation eliminates
worry about correct pressures;
once inflated the tyres never lose
pressure. Three types of infla-
tion were tested: 100 p.c. air,
75 p.c. water and 25 p.c. air and
100 p.c. water. In two months
those filled with air lost 71b.,
those with water and air 81b„
those completely water-filled
showed no pressure loss. Start-
ing pressure was 121 b. in all
cases.
In the past air-pressures had to
be adjusted when tyres bore un-
equal weight (as in hill work or
ploughing), but with the new
method, the water—up to certain
limits-adjusts itself. Although
the liquid content is incompres-
sible the elasticity of the tyre
offsets it, and tyres on tractors
driven over a sft stake showed
no signs of “bruising.”
Dairying Points.
“K.T.”: Whether machines
are used or not it is an advan-
tage to have cows which are
easy to milk. Although
machines are common, many
farmers have not as yet installed
them; the main reason being
lack of building material for
new premises.
Two or three easy cows can
be milked by hand while one
tough animal is being done, and
this applies to machines to a
marked degree. Some cows
“kick like mad” when milked
by hand, but give no trouble
when milked by machines, and
vice versa. Almost all dairy
cows have more milk in their
back teats than in the front.
The stream from the back ones
is generally considerably larger
and very often easier to milk.
It is said that in some hard cows
the continued suction can cause
very sore teats.
Sell the tough cows and get
easy ones in their place, or rear
a vealer on them. It is not
advisable to keep heifers from
such cows. If cows are on the
tough side in general and an-
other bull is needed, I would
buy a pedigreed one bred from
a cow which is easy, besides,
other qualifications. You can
expect his heifers to be easy
milkers.
When machines are installed
for the first time the cows react
differently. One man’s old
cows, which were very quiet,
played up when the machines
were introduced, whereas the
young ones took no notice at
all. Some cows will give
good quantities of milk by hand,
but won’t give it when the
machines are used. Instead of
milking these by hand, most
owners sell them. Some good
cows are sold for this reason.
At a recent sale of about 50
cows the owner said only one
cow had to be leg-roped ; she
was all right with the machines
but treacherous by hand, which
shows that machines can change
a cow’s nature one way or the
other.
Hints for the Farm.
“Myrr”; Protein is essential
in the rations of all livestock, but
the amounts fed vary according
to the animal and its purpose.
All young or pregnant stock for
example, and milking cows,
animals suckling their young and
laying poultry, should get more
protein than dry, store, working
or fattening stock. The former
need at least 15 p.c. of protein
against 10 p.c. for working and
fattening animals or p.c. for
stores.
“Nubis”: To poison vines or
shrubs which resist ordinary
methods fill a beer-bottle with a
1 p.c. solution of arsenic. Dig
to a large root and cut it off
about a foot from the base of
the plant. Then place the butt-
end of the root in the neck Of
the bottle and seal with cotton
wool or rag. Bury it, ensuring
that the neck is uppermost.
“Sundowner”: Standard
ration for egg-laying birds plus
1 p.c. vitamised oil gave highest
net returns in tests at Parafield
by S.A. Department of Agricul-
ture. A pen of birds on wheat
and meatmeal gave good produc-
tion, but the margin of profit was
small owing to heavy food con-
sumption.
“Sarina”: For drying maize-
cobs, the best thing is a frame
made by driving four posts into
the ground in a square, nailing
poles from post to post and
across, and covering with chicken
netting. The cobs are spread on
the netting, and the wind catch-
ing them from all sides soon re-
moves all moisture.
“Plane Creek”; The “honey-
suckle,” as I know it in C.Q.,
is a very uncommon stuqted tree,
growing on poor, stony ridges
(B. 23/2/’49). It bears cones,
from which may be taken brown
sticks, rather like cigars. I’ve
seen these “velvet-sticks” used
in the bush for emergency light-
ing. A small treacle-tin is
almost filled with sand. Enough
kerosene is poured in to saturate
the sand. A round bob, big
enough to take a “stick-wick,”
is cot in the treacle-tin lid, and
the lid replaced on the tin. The
"stick-wick” pushed through into
the wet sand is lightly moistened
with oil and lighted. You have
a good, safe light that’ll bum
for hours.
“Bill C”: Oleanders are not
shrubs for planting on grazing
country (B. 23/2/’49). They are
poisonous, and losses of cattle
and horses have been traced to
them. Larkspurs are attractive
flowering plants that are toxic
to grasshoppers, but, in the
U.S.A., where some species grow
wild, they are also regarded as
dangerous to stock.
“W. Court”: In every field of
production, from fruit-growing
to pig-raising, we are told that
good nutrition promotes health
and resistance to diseases or
pests. That is so, but even
healthy subjects are sometimes
attacked by diseases or pests. It
is a great mistake to imagine that
feeding will solve every problem.
When and if diseases or pests
strike, keep up the feeding by
all means, but tackle the trouble
with the proper remedies.
“Billjim”: Carrot rust-fly is
effectively dealt with by using
naphthalene broadcast over rows
at the rate of 4oz. to 20ft. of
row at intervals of 10 to 14 days.
Stop treatment 14 days before
digging to avoid any residual
flavor.
“A.M.M.”; Sometimes pigs
are born without hair. Nothing
can be done for them, but if a
sow makes a habit of producing
hairless young, put loz. of pot-
assium iodide into a bottle and
fill with water. Give her a tea-
spoonful of the mixture in her
food three times a week for a
month before farrowing.
“My”: To check disintegra-
tion caused by milk and food
acids, give new concrete three
applications of silicate of soda
(waterglass). Mix a gallon of
sil. soda with four gallons of
water and spray it on the con-
crete just as it is beginning to
set. Follow with two more
dressings at intervals of 24 hours.


' IJ Jewelled
movements in
exclusive
modern ~ \
cases
£5
lAVMA
w
fOONDCD'yHJiit
riuEter
■ :*r~
~V g
fro/
7dhe/p
con
SEVENTH SECURITY WAN
To-day, the supply of money in the
hands of the public is very much
greater than the supply of essential
goods on which to spend it. This
causes intense competition among
would-be buyers and prices are forced
up.
All Australians can help to overcome
these troubles by keeping as much of
their money as possible out of circu-
lation. To do this, the first step must
be careful, planned saving. And the
second step, wise investment of the
money saved.
BEST PLACE FOR YOUR SAYINGS
There is no better place for your
savings than the Seventh Security
Loan. Backed by the whole resources
of Australia, it is absolutely safe—
repayment of your money in full at
maturity is guaranteed by the
Commonwealth.
Seventh Security Loan Bonds and
Inscribed Stock pay good interest
regularly, surely; and should an
emergency arise, your securities may
be readily negotiated for cash.
The full amount sought in the
Seventh Security Loan is required to
pay for Repatriation and Rehabilita-
tion, for Public Works and Services
of the Commonwealth and States
and, as may be necessary, for the
repayment of unconverted securities
of maturing Loans.
INVESTMENT IS EASY
Investment may be for either four-
teen years or three years. The
fourteen-year securities pay
per annum. Bonds are available in
denominations of £lO, £5O, £lOO, £5OO
and £l,OOO, and Inscribed Stock for
a minimum of £lOO or multiples of
£lO in excess of £lOO.
The three-year securities pay 2 °/o
per annum and are available for a
minimum subscription of £l,OOO and
multiples thereof.
Invest your savings to-day in the
Seventh Security Loan through any
Bank, Savings Bank, Money Order
Post Office or Stockbroker.
NVOIAUUD33S HiNIiUS
oft ftS&Aft ■ ■ ft/07fa//l»gj2//%juo < /3'Ao£
js-sks **>.
Inscribed
If you hold Bonds or Inscni
Stock in any of the issues
The right, convert your holdings
too- le Seventh Security Loan
immediately and you will prevent
‘n”inter™ P tionto the income you
receive from your investment.
The following
Commonwealth
three issues of
Loans and In-
'•faiboriscd by the Treasurer of the Commonwealth.
scribed Stock will mature on April
15, 1949:
21% "Victory” Bonds and Inscribed
Ifoek issued In 1944 Itwo issues).
(Maturity date of these issues was
2SX October 15. 1949, but the
Commonwealth Treasurer's ex
cised his option to -deem these
securities on April 15, 194 V )
2% "Security" Bond, and Inscribed
Stock Issued In April, 1946.
75L3.113.39
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO CHARLES FREDERICK HENRY
PILLOW late of Braebum Hotel Milsons
Point.— TAKE NOTICE that JOYCE
PILLOW has filed an answer to Petition
No. 3968 of 1947 in which she pray for
a divorce on the ground of desertion for
three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse If you wish to defend
you may file a reply in the Divorce Regis-
try Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
Fourth May 1949 and obtain a copy of
the reply from LESLIE RUNDLE, Soli-
citor, 66 King Street, Sydney.— (l.s.) J.
DOUGHAN, Acting Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ROBERT ATHOL BALE-—TAKE
NOTICE that MARJORIE BALE has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 1485 of 1947
on the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce Regis-
try Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the 6th day of June 1949 and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge
from MESSRS, A. J. McLACHLAN
HOARE & CO., Solicitors, 6 Wynyard
Street, Sydney.— (l.s.) J. DOUGHAN,
Acting Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO PHYLLIS FRANCES ROWE formerly
of Bowral.—TAKE NOTICE that TER-
ENCE FREDERICK ROWE has filed a
Petition No. 4029 of 1948 for Divorce on
the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney New South
Wales on or before the 80th day of May
1949 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from F. W. REILLY,
Solicitor, 79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—
(1.5.) J. DOUGHAN, Acting Registrar
in Divorce.
1
m
our
“TOLLEY’S?
A splendid
drink since
1858.”
it i r noi . r good
It I T 11 as * e it I A U
' ■* olley’s . ‘
post care/®. Serves
bon. N tul m en ~
s boul d rj* h°*ne
**• £s***
dri nk an j*y**g
Val uabl e a i d d .
etner gen cy , d m a o
TOLLEY’S
SPECIAL ||JJ HOSPITAI
BRANDY
HEW SOUTH WALES DISTRIBUTORS: TOOTH & CO. LIHITEi
"HOT" MONEY IN NEW ZEALAND.
Uneasy over stickiness in over-
seas exchange funds at the height
of the export season, N.Z,’s
Reserve Bank, which for years
past has been armed with dicta-
torial powers over transfers of
capital from N.Z. to Australia
and other places, at the end of
January went further by giving
notice that from February 15
a ban would be clamped down
against cashing-in on N.Z. bank-
notes through Australian banks.
It was the latest move in New
Zealand’s currency problem. If
the “new-look” pound is to get
firmly into the saddle big leak-
ages must be stopped, and M.L.
must lock the door, if it can,
against profiting out of the 20
p.c. exchange premium which
M.L. money commands when it
crosses the Tasman.
M.L. has created a fairly big
temptation for traders and
travellers (including Maorilanders
themselves) to look for a loop-
hole or a way round restrictions.
If N.Z. banknotes can’t be
stopped from migrating, at least
banking heads are out to
do all they can to bar the way
against their return, except in
moderate numbers. N.Z. notes,
which have been going the
rounds of Sydney retail stores
and shops, or have rubbed
shoulders with Commonwealth
currency in private pockets in
Sydney and other parts of Aus-
tralia, will be “hot money”
from now on. M.L. has fixed
a limit of £5, in 10s. and £1
notes, for cashing-in by bona
fide travellers who go abroad,
apart from approved letters of
credit or travellers’ cheques.
Currency-controllers in Maori-
land haven’t been happy lately
about the trend of exchange
funds. Instead of mid-summer
expansion, they’ve seen fluctua-
tion close to bedrock level, while
wool, butter and meat shipments
have been at their year’s peak,
A year ago pick-up in the funds
was a bit sluggish, but there was
then a special reason, abnormal
import purchases, which hasn’t
been in the picture this time.
A couple of years ago, when
all M.L. exports were selling
well below today’s figures,
London funds at the turn of the
year were mounting by at
least a million weekly, and
were nearly double the opening
1949 total of £42 million, after
allowing for the 1948 revalua-
tion. This is a sign to financial
heads that little N.Z., with the
highest per capita trade in the
world, hasn’t yet taken all the
hurdles in the way of its new
pound. There’s pressure from
the inside, including inflation,
which knight Frederick Tout,
Bank of N.S.W. chiairman, a
while ago saw as too powerful
to be bottled up. How long can
M.L.’s Reserve Bank hold down
the safety-valve?.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Name and address must appear on the MS, No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany,
MS. should be addressed to the Editor.
P.W.; “Recollections of a Two-up
Player” now being read by the Re-
ligious Editor C.H.: What made
you think that we would print a
story about Red Indians? 8.H.:
You’ve an unhappy knack of selecting
the hoariest of plots T.E.: Read
no further than the page which re-
vealed that the old miser who held
the mortgage had a handsome, dare-
devil 50n....W.M.; A tame little
effort T.T.: Your “Apologies to
Henry Lawson’s ‘The Loaded Dog’ ”
should be profound.. . .T.A.J.: We
have suffered too many of those
dandy newchums whose horseman-
ship astounded the old hands....
Bellerive: Take a seat;
....R.McK.: We’d feel neglected if
that lottery story didn’t turn up each
week... .D.R.: The office sleuth,
after spending four days trying to
track down the point of the yarn,
gave a hysterical shriek and went out
for a bottle of lysol P.M.L-:
Your knowledge of boxing wouldn’t
get you past the prelims P.R.:
Next time you hear an abo. say
“Yassar, Ah was born out neah
Tibooburra,” catch him and take him
to a museum M.S.: Six earnest
people in a tram discussing the atom-
bomb in the language of University
professors. No, thanks N.C.:
Dreaming drover and faithful hound
are old acquaintances J.E.S.: Re-
minds us too much of a yarn by
O. Henry R.J.M.: That “story
of the great open spaces” should
be lost somewhere out there....
A.M.F.: All right, but this isn’t the
place for it....G.H.M.: If the
quality of your work came anywhere
near the quantity of it, you’d be
getting somewhere A.P..C.: More
platitudes than a fourth-rate politi-
cian’s speech 8.W.; “Once there
were oil-lamps, now there are electric
globes.” Yes, we know, we know
K.C.: Too tender and precious for
this hard world... .T.H.R.: Sadly,
very sadly, we lowered “The Dying
Mailman” into the w.p.b.... .L.S.S.:
“Dave Brown’s Dog” is nosing his
way back A.A.: Always glad to
hear that the sun still rises....
P. It would make good reading
at a meeting of Alcoholics Anony-
mous... .N.S.C.: The point of your
story was blunted before the ink was
dry on the paper A.F.G.: When
we had finished reading “The Roman-
tic Robot” the office chucker-out
took over... .R.D.: Had you lav-
ished the same loving care on the
story as you did on the covering
letter, it might have been a winner.
D.L.: We read no further than
arrival of good-looking stranger at
home of impoverished farmer and
his beautiful daughter... .R.A.: Badly
borrowed from Barcroft 80ake....
E.E.H.: Something in it, but not
enough E.D.G.: That’s a very
short cyclone B.AJ.: A glimmer
of promise in the description of the
hand D.M.: Softly sentimental.
E.H.: Except for the crocodile
in the sky it’s the usual tropic-sunset.
J.M.C.: The theme’s about as ancient
as the car....R.M.: We don’t say
“Hist!” here any longer, but someone
else might publish it... .C.M.R.: How
do you know the tourist isn’t a stoker
on holiday? Pop: It popped in
and popped off again C.E.S.:
“Our fauna and flora are full of
surprise.” And our poetry....
L.W.S.: Nearly... .8.M.: The nur-
sery window-pane is the only thing
that makes it the slightest bit different
from everybody else’s ruminations
about the universe G.H.; Close.
You get too far from the stream in
the last stanza, and, anyhow, “salt”
is hardly what you’d find in an apple.
J.D.: For the sake of grammar,
at least, you should hesitate to greet
an immigrant with a cry of “The
ground where thou standeth is holy.”
M.G.: At the moment you would
require a very special poet’s licence
to sing about New Guinea timber.
Give me the chimney comer
On a wild and wintry night
Where the glow of the kitchen fire
Doth shed its ruddy light.
Give me the chimney comer
Snug from the bitter cold,
Life in boisterous winter is
Warmth to a man when old.
Give me the chimney comer,
I love to hear the rain
Patter upon the rooftop
And against the windowpane.


RE FI LIABLE
i ro 'Mkoh’
ITISH BALL POI NT PEN
COMPLETE
t.
Makes 6 Carbon Copies
Dries as it writes
4 Coloured Inks
Every Refill Guaranteed
Seven months ago, the Biro "Minor'
with Refill was introduced in Australia
sales were phenomenal produc-
tion could not keep up with demand.
Greatly increased production has now
reduced costs, and the Refillable Biro
"Minor" will sell in Australia at the
amazingly low price of 6/-. This is the
very same Biro "Minor" precision-made in
England. An addition is the protector cap
which enables it to be carried in the pocket
or handbag. Biro "Minor" writes in four
separate colours . . . red, black, blue, green.
Refills for any Biro Ball Point Pen are
available everywhere in Australia at 3/9
each. AM refills are guaranteed.
2 OTHER BIRO MODELS
"STANDARD" BIRO. In attractive Dove
Grey, Maroon or Black case. 55/-. "Mag-
num" Refills 3/9 each.
"AUTOMATIC" BIRO. Silver-plated by
Asprey of Bond Street, London. Press the
top and the point CLICKS OUT . . . press
the clip and the point CLICKS IN! 69/-.
Refills 3/9 each. Adaptors for "Magnum"
Refills supplied free.
At Stationers, Jewellers and Stores.
O
iro
THE BRITISH BALL POINT PEN
Patent No. 122073, dated Dec. 8, 1943. Other patents pending.
BMP2/16
Missing Friend.
WILLIAM ARTHUR LEO PERRIER (also
known as LEO OARRI), husband of
Theresa Elizabeth Perrier, late of Auck-
land, or anyone knowing his whereabouts,
please communicate with the DISTRICT
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Auckland, New Zea-
land.
(/asa/pa&fd
FOR BIGGER MILEAGE!
1
£-5-
s. if i:mm
M
L
IS
♦
gffißw
air-ntfe
ZOOZ dus/raZ/asr ... Z?Zasnp/or& cf/Zre faaa
A PRODUCT OF THE OLYMPIC TYRE 6- RUBBER CO. LTD.
0T21.16.49
SMOKE-OH!
PIMMS No. I CUP
The Drink
for wise men
“F. H. Gallagher’s Coal Industry
Tribunal threatens to penalise miners
unless strikes become less frequent.”
Let ’er go, Gallagher!
4* 4* 4*
“Poisonous spiders. Three bitten.”
—“S. M. Herald.”
Nice work. It’s time some-
body started reprisals.
4* 4* 4*
“Connecticut State police are in-
stalling radar on highways to trap
speeding motorists.”
Echoes of it are later heard in
court.
4* 4 1 4*
“New-design petrol tickets will be
introduced next month to combat for-
geries.”—Liquid Fuel Controller J. B.
Gumming.
Gumming wants to know
where the petrol’s going.
“Most Australians dislike the idea
of lady miners.” — “S. M. Herald.”
But gold-diggers enjoy tem-
porary popularity.
4* *i* *i*
Residents of Jindabyne, en-
dangered by the Snowy River
scheme, are resentful because
authorities declare their village
not worth a dam.
4* 4* , 4*
“Have you ever listened to the
sound of your own voice?”
— Woman’s mag.
No, dear ; if a woman stopped
to think, how could she hear it?
, .
“Most women don t need corsets
until they have had children.”
— Woman’s paper.
Then they simply must receive
support.
* * *
“Garage wanted, vicinity Neutral
Bay; smokes for rent if suitable.”
—Suburban paper.
Owner may see many draw-
backs in this offer.
4* 4* 4*
“Urgent, accommodation for small
family, furnished flat or temporary
repeat.”— Suburban paper.
Any place where they can
come and go. as they like.
Chance for Local Talent.
“Madame Tussaud’s famous wax-
works in London are making a figure
of Chifley.”— Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
At last the credit due to fame
Has come to Chif. and he whose
game
Has been consistently to levy
Taxation from us with a heavy
Relentless hand is now to grace
In effigy the famous place
Where you may see a fine selec-
tion
Of highwaymen whose cash col-
lection
Was made with less impunity
And far less opportunity.
And might I humbly now sug-
gest
That local men could mould him
best ,
For though he’s apt to come to
blows
At any time with medicos
Who won’t comply with his de-
mands.
He’s so much wax in Commas’
hands.
D.H.E.
On the Nose.
Secret Police tax, etc., being de-
ducted from pay in advance —to
the wonderful purge work done
by the Commissar for Circuses,
M. Barnumoff.
Comrade Barnumoff had
started by de-bourgeoising the
circus, concentrating first on the
animal acts.
As worker-comrades would in-
evitably associate the lion with
the emblem of plutocratic, war-
mad, anti-democratic Britain
lion acts were automatically
barred. Tigers were also banned
because their striped hides might
remind too many of the happy
workers of what was happening
“Only by fully unmasking the
cosmopolitan theoreticians and for-
malistic directors who have planted
in the arenas of Soviet circuses alien
bourgeois tendencies can the Soviet
circus art achieve a new renaissance
and become a genuine expression of
the spiritual strength of the people
inhabiting our great Fatherland.” —
“Soviet Art,” in a rebuke to Russian
comedians.
The great renaissance of
Soviet circus art had arrived.
Moscow’s new collectivised State
Circus —not to be confused with
the “purge trials” —was expected
to draw capacity houses. Credit
for this was due —except for the
trifling fact that attendance by
all comrade-workers was com-
pulsory, cost of admission 220
roubles, including seat 30
roubles, plus 250 p.c. amusement
tax, Stalin-appreciation tax.
Anti - Bourgeois Fighting tax.
“If would have been a shame to fillet it.”
to their relatives in the concen-
tration camps. All elephant acts
, were also forbidden ; the pachy-
derms, M. Barnumoff argued,
had trunks, and what would a
trunk suggest but travel to
foreign lands, which under the
freedom enjoyed by the dwellers
in the Paradise was a crime
against the State, unless one was
a high party official. Percheron
horses were barred because
France was not yet a fully Com-
munised State.
The only animal the'Commis-
sar had decided that could take
part in a Soviet circus was the
skunk; not only was it the per-
sonal emblem of Stalin but its
smell would help patriotically to
remind the comrade-workers of
the glorious work of the Comin-
form. Admittedly skunks could
not be taught to perform acts,
but that didn’t matter, as the
Cultural Committee of the Pre-
sidium had ruled that animal
acts in a circus were a relic of
decadent Western nationalistic
objectivism. M. Barnumoff was
not sure what this meant, but he
knew it must be right. The
Soviet had one skunk that could
put on quite a good act when re-
quired, but this one wasn’t
striped.
Such forms of circus entertain-
ment as flying-trapeze acts had
been ruled out as being foreign
to the new spirit of the People’s
Democracies; also, watching
men fly through the air with
the greatest of ease might give
some of the audience ideas about
opportunities to escape over the
top of the Iron Curtain.
It might have been thought
that a circus offering only the
sight and smelh of an actless
skunk in a cage, with no per-
forming animals or human
stunts, would fall flat. Critics,
however, were reckoning without
M. Barnumoff’s two famous
clowns, Ivan Gloomovitch and
Dmitri Lugubriev.
Gloomovitch, the Stakhanovite
clown, had been the recipient of
the Soviet’s highest award, the
Order of the Bearded Vulture,
for his record output of anti-
capitalist gags. A famous ex-
ample of his uproarious clown-
ing which had earned the special
commendation of the Fiihrer
himself was his asking Lugu-
briev “Why is a Soviet factory
chimney like a hen sitting on an
egg?” When the other clown
would profess ignorance of the
answer, Gloomovitch would say
triumphantly, “Why! Because
the workers in Communist coun-
tries get the full economic bene-
fit from their labor, whereas the
slaves of the exploiting classes
in capitalist countries are robbed
of the fruits of their work! ” No
clown in the Plutocracies falling
flat on ai balloon and bursting it
could ever hope to convulse an
audience as would such a sally
as Gloomovitch’s.
On the opening night the
skunk was in its position of
honor and one of Joe’s doubles
was sitting with the new favorite,
Vyshinsky, behind the grenade-
proof-glass partition as into the
arena slowly walked the two
famous clowns. The Cultural
Committee had decided that ridi-
culously-made-up faces and
baggy trousers were ideologically
at variance with the dignity of
Communist life; therefore the
clowns were in the ordinary grey
pressed-paper suits and rein-
forced-cardboard boots which
was the prescribed regulation
dress for Soviet workers.
Gloomovitch’s first witty wise-
crack, “The formalistic chauvin-
ism and cosmopolitan opposi-
tionism of the plutocratic
enemies of Leninist-Marxist for-
wardism will fail before the de-
termination of the peace-loving
People’s Democracies!” brought
vociferous applause from the
secret police scattered through-
out the audience, and this was
immediately taken up obediently
by the workers sitting patiently
on their hardwood benches.
As the night wore on, how-
ever, a strange feeling began to
creep over M. Barnumoff. The
drone of Gloomovitch’s waggish
references to “Wall-street machi-
nations” and “encircling the
peace-loving Soviet with an
atomic ring” was lost on him
as, yielding to some devilish
memory, some atavistic ten-
dency, he began in his mind’s eye
to see things.
Half-way through the 112th
ideological gag by the clowns
Barnumoff suddenly left his seat
and disappeared below.
Ten minutes later, as Lugu-’
briev was asking why the Soviet
workers were happier than any
other toilers, a figure
dressed in baggy
pants five sizes too
big for him, a coat
with the sleeves
nearly up to his
elbows, big turned-
up boots and a silly-
looking little straw
hat held by a string
under the chin burst into the
ring. Even with the flour-bagged
face and lines of grease-paint
drawn vertically through his eyes
the figure was unmistakably that
of M. Barnumoff.
Tripping over his flapping
boots he pretended to fall flat on
his face. Then he got up, leered
comically, drew a custard-pie
from his pocket and splathered it
with a beautiful shot fair be-
tween Gloomovitch’s eyes.
As a mighty shout of natural
laughter rose from the workers
M. Barnumoff recklessly emitted
a loud “Har! Har!” and defi-
antly bared his chest for the
bullets of the guards. He had
committed the unforgivable
Communist sin of provoking
healthy laughter.
Next day Moscow Radio an-
nounced that “for health reasons
M. Barnumoff has been relieved
of his post.”
BO.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2ld. per line.
Some Russians
He sat two down the table from me,
but on the other side. His appearance
was unprepossessing, hardly what I ex-
pected O' Marshal Stalin’s son. Jacob
Stalin was his name, and he was about
35. He was little more than average
height, with a sallow complexion that
might have been the result of the trials
he had passed through since his capture
at Kharkov, during the winter offensive
of 1942.
If I remember rightly, he was a colonel
in an infantry regiment. I never spoke
to him, even on the one occasion we stood
together at the door of the hut. I gave
him a cigarette, lit it for him and we
looked at each other. That was all.
There were 800 of us altogether in the
“troublemakers’ ” cage at Stalag XIIIC,
Hammelburg, Germany, in that late
summer of 1942. Most of us were in
for escapes, some for inciting mutiny
(pending trial), a good number for just
refusing to work. We were in two groups.
Ours consisted of two Britishers, 13 Aus-
tralians, 32 Yugoslavs and 136 French-
men, privates and n.c.os. The other
group were all Russians, officers and men
mixed. >
While our group got along well together
through our pidgin German-French-
English, we found it difficult to mix with
the Russians. The fault was not ours.
They were taciturn fellows and kept to
themselves. Even though we were all on
Strafarbeit (punishment labor;), we
Westerners still got a reasonable ration,
and we contrived to share some of it with
the ill-fed, ill-clothed Russians, ‘They
accepted it, and there their gratitude
seemed to end.
Occasionally, a Russian soldier might
talk, but we would find him to be a
Ukrainian. There was a difference. The
Ukrainians did not consider themselves
Russians; in fact, they had long waited
for a chance to break away from Soviet
domination. The war gave it to them, and
the Ukrainian soldiers deserted in their
thousands to the Germans soon after the
conflict between the Nazis and Soviets
was joined. Later, many of these cap-
tured soldiers were enlisted into Nazi-
sponsored units and sent back to fight
against the Russians. It was a forlorn
attempt, forlorn because, after the war,
so I learned before leaving Europe, the
Kremlin had remembered the “treachery”
and gone through the Ukraine with rifle
and rope.
The Russians as J saw them were un-
couth, mostly illiterate and seldom
bothered to keep themselves clean. We
Westerners disliked them as much as we
pitied them the treatment they got from
the Germans. The Germans never treated
the British or French as cruelly as they
did the Russians. For the Russians, when
they died, and in that first winter they
died in their thousands, there was only a
vast pit at the rear of the camp. The
corpses, stacked on trolleys, were drawn
by other living skeletons to the pit.
But if that was the treatment the
Russians got from the Germans, the
Germans also must have fared badly.
German soldiers told me “The Russians
don’t know what humanity is.” Whether
conditions for the German prisoners were
as bad as those of the Russians in
German hands, Ido not know. But it
would seem that they were at least as
bad, judging by the reported physical
condition of prisoners returning from
Soviet Russia now.
Strangely, no Russian ever tried to
teach or tell us about Communism. Even
the Ukrainians would not openly con-
demn Russia to us, though we knew
they were opposed to the overlords of
Moscow. I came to the conclusion, as
did most with me, that everything the
Russian did or thought was to a rigid
framework, and in every case he was in-
fluenced by fear —a fear of whether he
was doing right, or a fear of whether he
would be criticised for what he had said
or done, rightly or wrongly.—K. H. H.
(S.A.).
Depression’s Children
I know of a lad of 18 who was
lately offered an opportunity for advance-
ment in his chosen profession. It in-
volved resigning a position to take one
with a slight margin of risk, but a risk
more than equated by the chances of
moving ahead quickly. The youngster
had no personal, responsibilities other
than keeping himself; he was strongly
attracted to the new position, and knew
in his heart he should take it. Yet he
refused the job.
Taking risks is one of the privileges
and prerogatives of youth, particularly
the kind of risk which, if it fails to come
off, injures nobody but the lad concerned.
That kind of injury, at 18 or 19, changes
itself so quickly into experience that it
is not an injury at all. Almost every
man I know around my years took risks
as a lad.
If fear of insecurity is common among
the youths of the 17-20 age-groups today,
it bodes ill for the future well-being of
this country and is something to
which educationists might give their
attention. These youngsters are the
children of the depression, born about
1930, and were in their most formative
years when the depression was at its
worst. The influences which touched
their childhood are now only too deaf —
doubt, reservations, uncertainty. In a
word, fear; and fear so strong, though
not expressed in terms of fear, that it
causes them to set real opportunities
aside in favor of safer ruts.
The lasting marks of those years of
want and strain will be found among
those who were born amidst them. There
is no need to enlarge on what it may
mean to Australia 10 years hence, if the
generation then in the forefront of the
world of action is one powerfully influ-
"You running the Mermaid Inn now! Sister , you'll finish up on the rocks."
enced by considerations of safety and
security at all costs. — Dee (Q.).
“Save for Security”
I like Mr. Chifley’s ideas about “saving
for security.” The average householder
today is lucky if he can meet ex-
penses. My husband is a white-
collar worker earning £9 a week. Out
of that we pay £2 17s. 6d. for rent and
electricity. The cost of clothing is stag-
gering, and so is the cost of food. Eggs
are 3s. Hd. a dozen, bread a loaf
and fruit 2d. or 3d. a piece. An
occasional doctor’s bill, plus regular visits
to the dentist, and what chance have we
to save?
In any case, what incentive is there for
people to be thrifty? Taxation is high,
and interest rates are low. The Savings
Bank, which Mr. Chifley is particularly
anxious to boost, pays two per cent,
on the first £5OO. Although we all pay
social-services tax, many of us will never
derive any benefit from it unless the means
test is abolished.
The real way to stop inflation is, first,
for the Government to set an example.
This is no time for gross Government ex-
travagance—no time for spending millions
in trying to ruin private enterprise by
buying in on everything from banks to
ships. Secondly, go-slow methods in in-
dustry must be stopped, and production
increased until we have a steady flow of
necessary commodities at a reasonable
price. Under those conditions there
would be no need to worry about infla-
tion. — Australienne (N.S.W.),
“Demand”
Typical of the prevalent straitjacket
theory of economics is the false meaning
often given to the word “demand.” The
daily Press announces that house-build-
ing is three years behind the demand, or
that the demand for new cars will be
satisfied by 1950. The assumption is
that demand is a fixed quantity which
can be calculated. It springs from the
notion that man is essentially an animal,
and that once certain known wants are
satisfied he will be, or should be, quite
happy. That is, of course, untrue.
The demand for an article is the sum
of the effective efforts that people will
make to get it. In economics, demand
does not mean needing or wanting; it
means actively trying to own. A man
may be blue with cold, but until he takes
some steps to produce clothes or fire-
wood, or to exchange something for
them, he does not demand those goods.
People may be living ten to a room, but
if they know that they can’t afford any
more spacious quarters, their demand
for housing is nil.
On the other hand, there is no fixed
upper limit to demand. When every
married couple has a house, there will
still be people who fancy a beach- or
country-shack. Although a-family has
only one home, those people who are
easily able to do so often acquire more
than one house. In the case of goods
more commercially fluid, such as food
and clothes, this principle is more
obvious.
The demand for houses is supposed to
be strong at present, but until the price
comes down many young couples will
have to go on living with mum and
dad. — Robert Howie (W.A.).
The Farmer
If any wheat- or woolgrower is not
making good progress these days there
must be something very much • wrong
with him. Yet, on this morning’s news-
broadcast somebody or other was trying
to make out that the woo'lgrower is
worse off today than he was a few years
ago.
Any country bank-manager will tell
you that if present prices continue for
another year he will have practically no
overdrawn farm accounts left. The
matter of heavy income-tax was also
mentioned in the broadcast, but is the
cocky the only one who pays it? Com-
pare his lot with the salaried worker, who
hasn’t the chances to dodge a bit as the
cocky has and very often does.
Many farmers like to point out
that their fences, etc., are going to pot
and that their farms generally are in
need of paint and other improvements.
But the neglect of improvements, especi-
ally fencing, extends far back beyond the
war. Then all this fuss about wire-
netting. When wire-netting fences are put
up, how often are they kept in proper
order, particularly at creek crossings and
the like?
No; the farmer today—as regards
wheat and wool —is on a darned good
wicket and the sooner he admits it with
a smile the sooner the general public
will listen when he really has a grouch.
The extent of the rise in export prices
since 1939 is shown in the figures of the
Commonwealth Statistician: Wool,
1938-39, index figure has risen from 793
to 3997; wheat, 656 to 4446. One can’t
get away from those figures. — Harry
the Horse (Vic.).
C.S.I.R.
I see that C.S.I.R. scientists are now
engaged in research “seeking a suitable
concrete mixture to replace timber for
flooring.”
It’s a pity nobody has told them
that concrete is unobtainable and looks
like staying that way for some years. In-
stead of wasting time looking for a sub-
stitute for wooden flooring (which is
available) why can’t they spend a little
research on the asbestos deposits in the
Wittenoon and Vampire Gorges of the
Hamersley Range in W.A.? It has been
claimed that there is enough asbestos
there to provide Australia on present-day
requirements for 1000 years!
Perhaps the C.S.I.R. hasn’t heard that
various Queensland councils and private
builders are importing cement from Eng-
land (landed cost about three times the
price of the local stuff). Or perhaps they
haven’t yet heard that the only way local
cement can be bought, in Brisbane at any
rate, is on the blackmarket at £1 a bag.—
Momokan (Q.),
You Can’t Do That!
After four years of boarding-houses
and rooms, my husband and I were lucky
enough to find an unfurnished flat. The
price and quality of furniture in the local
shops and in Sydney stopped us in our
tracks, so we approached a man with
a good reputation who agreed to make
our things for us. He produced some
good, well-seasoned timber and quoted
a price about half what we would
have paid elsewhere for rubbish.
Just before the furniture was finished I
went down to see it, but found it
was not in the workshop. “Terribly
sorry,” said the furniture-maker. “I’m
registered as a joiner and, strictly speak-
ing, I’m not allowed to make furniture.
1 can make all sorts of shop-fittings and
so forth, but I mustn’t make house furni-
ture. There’s a Government inspector in
town at the moment, so I’ve dispersed
your stuff round the district until he’s
gone.”
Is the man with enterprise and initiative
to be completely wiped out in this
country? Here’s a case of a really good
tradesman, hard-working, conscientious
and reasonable in his charges. He is
doing a lot of good by helping people to
furnish their homes with solid stuff in-
stead of rubbish, yet, because of fiddling,
wearying regulations, he is forbidden to
exercise his skill unless he behaves like
a petty criminal. No wonder taxes are
high, when inspectors are paid to see
that people don’t work. ■ — D. R. I.
(N.S.W.).
Home Finance
A word of consolation for “Nalla” (B.
2/ 3 / ’49). He need not lament too much
the fact that he "hasn’t the £263 cash de-
posit to put down on a £1750 house-
purchase under the Commonwealth
Bank’s scheme. If he considers what has
happened in previous booms he will prob-
ably conclude that in a very few years his
small equity would have disappeared—
more than disappeared, in fact, inasmuch
as he could easily be left with the house
and a debt on it- exceeding its deflated
value.
The banks are not chasing the present
trend in building costs, but adopting a
much more long-sighted policy. Take the
last annual report of the State Savings
Bank of Victoria (year to June, 1948).
Under the heading “Credit Fonder De-
partment” appears this very illuminating
remark: “During the year the erection of
54 houses was completed under super-
vision of the bank.” Only 54!
That bank lends up to nine-tenths, not
of the cost, but of its own valuation of
the house. Two very different things.
There is little doubt that many who are
paying the present fantastic prices for
small homes will sooner or later be lucky
if they own the paint on the front gate.
Of course, if a man has the money to
pay for the place outright, or find even
50 per cent, of the cost, he can then forget
what he paid for it. But to borrow 80 per
cent, or so is simply looking for head-
aches. — Ceg (Vic.).
Droughts
Like wars and pestilences, droughts are
out of mind when out of sight. Aus-
tralia has been enjoying good seasons
combined with the greatest demand and
the highest prices ever recorded for her
primary products. Not one citizen in
a thousand is taking thought for to-
morrow and the weather changes that are
sure to come.
Weather prophets differ about dates,
but scientists all agree that deluges and
droughts occur and recur in a regular
rhythm. By delving into the stratified mud
and gravel deposited annually by aval-
anches ; by reading the rings in the trunks
of ancient trees ; by timing the migration
of wild life; charting the transit of sun-
spots, and poring over rainfall records
they have independently come to the con-
clusion that the rains go on strike at in-
tervals of about 11 years.
The time is at hand for another dry
spell. It cannot be avoided or delayed
by pushing buttons or nationalising in-
dustries. Its severity can be softened by
digging dams, conserving food for man
and beast and providing rapid transport
for starving stock. Is there any sign that
Australia is making any practical prepara-
tion for the inevitable? Or will we be
forced to import grain even as we
are already importing coal and steel.
B. Ware (S.A.).


Afforestation
In 1947 Miss Jocelyn Henderson, of
Holbrook (N.S.W.), published a most
informative and thought - provoking
booklet, “Fire—or Water?” It drew atten-
tion to the devastation being caused in the
catchment areas of our largest river-
systems in southern N. S. Wales and
northern Victoria by bushfires. Nobody
can query the facts set out in the booklet,
but it is possible to add a workable sug-
gestion to those which she made.
The trouble with our native vegeta-
tion is that once a fire enters the
forest country and has a hot, dry wind
behind it, nothing man can do will stop it.
In the wake of the fire there is a wilder-
ness of dead sticks and an interval of
years before the bush regenerates
itself. In the meantime erosion gets
in its deadly work, and in another 10
years or so the bush again reaches the
state where it can carry another fire. The
same danger—if not a worse one —exists
if the country is planted with pines as a
commercial forestry proposition. Yet
there is a simple and obvious cure.
There are useful timber trees which
will grow under the soil, climate and rain-
fall conditions which exist in these catch-
ment areas. They are just as efficient as
native trees as soil-binders, and they put
the same moisture-retaining mat of litter
on the forest floor. Most important of
all, they won’t burn in a running fire be-
cause their leaves are green, sappy and do
not contain the volatile and inflammable
essential oils which enable a fire to roar
through the tops of pines or eucalypts.
These trees , are the various species of
European and American ash, beech and
oak. -
Tons of the necessary seed could be
gathered without trouble from existing
street and park plantations around the
city of Adelaide alone. After a
fire has swept any portion of the catch-
ment area, advantage could be taken of
the clean-up which results to plant these
useful deciduous trees in place of the ip-
flammable native timber. It would then
need only a slasher gang to go over the
same ground during the two following
seasons to cut down regenerating native
growth to give the introduced trees a
chance ; after that they would look after
themselves. —H. A. L. (S.A.).
Rabbits
During the last few years, as soon as
the fur season has advanced far enough
to make rabbitskins worth trapping, the
Federal Government has stepped in to
impose an export levy of Is. 6d. per
pound of skins. In the latter years of the
war, when skins were booming, overseas
buyers took the tax in their stride, but
over the last couple of years the market,
though rising to fairly high levels, has
been shaky, and as soon as the levy has
been applied it has been felt acutely.
Last year the market took such a knock
that it practically went out on its feet.
This is how it was: late last summer
the Government announced that it would
impose the levy on April 30; then, after
some weeks of indecision it was an-
nounced that the tax would not be im-
posed until May 31. Everybody con-
cerned waited for the new zero hour,
feeling that it would spell disaster. Then
the date was again postponed until June
16.
After being thus messed about for so
long the trade was groggy and, to make
matters worse, a flu epidemic hit Sydney,
taking heavy toll of classers and packers,
so that there was a lag of up to eight
weeks in some cases in getting catalogues
ready for sale. Brokers’ floors were piled
high with unclassed consignments
when the levy fell due. Under normal
circumstances they would have been sold
on a free market and the trade thought
that some allowance would be made for
that, but none was. When the tax fell
due it took in everything and, at Is. 6d.
per pound, the Government reaped a
harvest of £l6B a ton on this delayed
tonnage.
It was a windfall for the Government,
but it broke many small buyers, whose
accumulated parcels of skins represented
all their capital. The market could not
take the strain of the tax and declined at
an alarming rate. It fell 4d, a pound on
the day the tax hit it, and that with the
tax itself made a total fall of Is. lOd. a
pound. From then on the price fell
from 2d. to Is. per pound weekly until,
by the middle of August, rabbits were no
longer worth trapping and trappers went
home two months before their usual
time. The rabbits thus had an eight-weeks
start in their breeding season.
On top of that, because of the uncer-
tainty in the height of the season, there
had been fewer trappers operating and
there were places where the rabbit had
remained practically unmolested all
through the winter. A good many areas
had been favored with useful falls of
rain, grass had been good and bunny
bred right along, starting the summer
some scores of millions ahead of the
traps. Result, the present plague, a living
testimony to the fact that though regi-
“Why, Ceorgc, I thought youd changed your shirt this morning !”
mentation might be all right when every-
thing can be regimented, it isn’t much
good when it tries to embrace an unregi-
mentable object such as a rabbit. —
Ardizan (Q.).
Local Authorities
Victoria’s Premier Hollway is on
the right track with his proposal
to give wider powers and State aid to
municipal councils. Since the early days
of the war municipalities have had to
shoulder burdens which are not strictly
their concern, and for which they receive
neither thanks nor payment.
One such is the administration of the
local “Transport Advisory Committee,”
which acts for the State Liquid Fuel
Control Board and investigates all appli-
cations for increased and special petrol
rations. In my own municipality this
work requires the services of a full-time
officer. The same applies to the war-time
evacuation of children (an immense job),
flotation of Commonwealth loans. Lord
Mayor’s camps for children, U.N.R.R.A.
clothing appeal and numerous other
things on which council-paid officers
spend much of their time.
There is no doubt that the principle of
local administration is sound and should
be reverted to, but a council whose
officers act on behalf of various Govern-
ment departments should receive a sub-
sidy to help meet consequent increases in
staff costs. At the present time, however,
its only redress is to increase rates, which
must be borne by the already-burdened
owner-occupier, or the retired landlord
who finds his income dwindling because
increased rates cannot be compensated for
by increased rents, — Carlyle (Vic.).
Housing
“Ti-tree’s” saving of £2OO on a new
house (B. 2/ 3 / ’49) is quite normal. He
was actually the “builder” himself, and
consequently saved the builder’s 10 per
cent.
Many others who have tried the same
trick have failed miserably because of the
policy of most firms of giving materials
only to recognised builders.
“Ti-tree’s” story exposes one of the
greatest rake-offs in the building-trade.
Most builders erect houses by hiring sub-
contractors and charging the future owner
a clear 10 per cent, over this price. That
is additional to the architect’s 3 per cent.
I woke up to the business with my new
house when it was too late. However, I
did save a fiver, and would have saved
more if I had known. I employed a
concrete-paver to lay cement-paths and
drive. He charged me £5O. If the builder
had employed him, it would have cost me
£5 5 for the same job.
If “Ti-tree’s” story could become
regular practice Australia would soon
overcome the housing shortage. But his
tradesmen belonged to the old school
who worked and were proud of their
job.— Waddlin’ Willie (Vic.).
Surrealism
Adelaide art-lovers are again being
moved to admiration or disgust by an
exhibition of pictures by modern British
artists. The offerings range from infantile
meaningless messes of paint, through
adult Freudian nightmares, to sophisti-
cated panderings to the cult of ugliness.
Truth and beauty are of course absent,
they being neither experimental nor
dynamic.
There is, however, one exception to file
general rule. It can be classed as a pic-
ture because it is framed and glazed. It
is so abstract in design and composition
that not one pencil line or spot of paint
sullies the virgin purity of its surface.
The canvas wears a coat of only one quiet
color. The artist has expressed his soul
by sticking a square of some smooth
material towards the left of his master-
piece and depressing a circular area to-
wards the right, and then applying a layer
of pallid pigment over the whole thing,
including the frame.
The effect is sublime. The impact, if
the glass were removed, could be felt and
appreciated by a blind man. The tech-
nique is so simple that it could be
adopted by a sightless carpenter.
Yet how powerfully it appealed to the
imagination! At first glance I saw within
that severely chaste frame what I thought
was an exquisitely executed “portrait of
a man” wearing a frayed tie and a be-
wildered expression. Then I recognised
the tie and realised that I was gazing
awestruck at my own reflection. Surely
that is the apex of art; to hold, as it were,
the mirror up' to nature.
If all the surrealists employed the same
method of self-expression the critics
would at least see themselves as others
see them, instead of starihg at exposi-
tions of addled egos, clouds that are very
like whales, and men as trees walking.—
Philistine (S.A.).
Root of the Matter
The publishing of new books in
monthly parts should be worth the atten-
tion of an enterprising Australian pub-
lisher. Even first-edition novels average
Bs. 6d. to 9s. 6d. these days, while books
of non-fictional character range from
12s. 6d. upwards. Those prices are too
steep for the average reader. Monthly
instalments would make it easier for him.
The idea is not new—Dickens, Thackeray,
Surtees and other Victorian novelists
used it and, in recent years, some elaborate
historical and scientific works, such as
H. G. Wells’s Outline of History, have
been published in the same way.—
Bookworm (N.S.W.).
The Commonwealth Government can-
not be blamed (B. 16/2/’49) for not in-
scribing the recipient’s name on the
D.F.C. In 1918 at Buckingham Palace I
received from the King my Military Cross
without any inscription. There is nothing
new or derogatory in the issue of un-
inscribed decorations or medals. The
1857-60 China medal was issued to the
Navy without names, and the 1914-18 and
Victory medals were issued to the British
Army uninscribed. It’s a pity that the
question of inscribing campaign stars and
medals ever arose. I have already re-
ceived the 1939-45 and Africa Stars plain,
and was hoping to have the Defence and
War medals by Anzac Day. Now that
this quibble has arisen, it seems that I
shall be very lucky if I have my full
complement of tinware by Anzac Day,
1950. — Muskeen (Vic,),
Although any large-scale construction
of new railway lines is no longer advisable
the Victorian Government should con-
sider electrification and duplication of
the lines serving Ballarat, Bendigo and
Geelong. The greatest present distance
between each of these cities and the
metropolis is 70, 96 and 45 miles, and, as
the centres and Melbourne expand, the
distances will be reduced. Then the cities
will be no more than outer suburbs of a
greater Melbourne. Particularly does that
apply in the case of Geelong. Apart from
the fact that the growth of these cities
in the next few decades will render the
present steam-train services totally inade-
quate there is another good reason for
electrification —the saving in black coal
by use of Yallourn power generated from
the State’s own brown-coal resources. —
Plain Australian (Vic.).
To help solve the problem of native
treatment, why not give them land up
north, where they can have their own
Government, own hunting and own form
of living? If they want help the white-
men can step in and assist. Mixing black
and white is degrading. So far life has
only brought misery and discontent to
half-castes. In time they may become a
menace.—A Nurse (N.S.W.).
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 9
(cryptic type.)
Across.
1 The backward university faculty
I immerse behind like a pot-
plant. (10)
6 Where a seaman sleeps is so
much balderdash. (4)
9 play-actor and I intrude in the
bridge. (B)
10 —Absorbed place where “Love Me
Sailor” was staged. (6)
11 The mistress of the castle has a
little talk with a girl. (10)
16 —Chant location of Franchot’s
lunch, after lunch. (6)
17 Dandy parent takes the vehicle
on one dish. (8)
19 — Artist upset and relaxed when
taken into custody. (8)
20 — Cuckoo headgear of a joker. (6)
21 Rub a roller containing an abo-
riginal musical instrument. (4-6)
25 Kipling character is to duck no
eastern garment. (6)
26 —Metallic rattling of a tribal
sovereign. (8)
27 Blast of a horn to double track-
wards once. (4)
28 The electrified particles of under-
water workmen’s amusements.
(10)
(Solution in next issue.)
Down.
1 — Caper with South American
capital to kiss a dramatic let-
down. (10)
2 These minor versifiers sample
the flavors of the author of The
Raven.” (10)'
3 Spruce character of coppers tak-
ing a pianissimo eagle to a
steamer. (10)
4 Italian sword pad in South Aus-
tralia. (5)
5 Girl with a very bad habit. (5)
7 Ruse spoilt by an employer. (4)
8— Franklin made an experiment
with one rogue, and gets the
bird. (4)
12 — Ancient mariner. (4)
13 — Malicious gossip takes quantities
of cougars and lynxes. (10)
14— Composition once swallowed by
a councillor with a metal duck.
(10)
15— Diana’s old man reveals his ill-
temper and depreciates. (10)
18 —The fellows take you the bill of
fare. (4)
21 — Ponder morosely on chickens. (5)
22 Sick heart of the French city. (5)
23—Burlesque sport in the snow be-
fore tea. (4)
24_Gippsland town sees me in a
pair of spectacles. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 8.


The A.W.A. monogram on any instrument is a mark of
quality and scientific craftsmanship. It is the symbol of the
Radio Age, representing the knowledge gained from research
and engineering over more than 35 years.
Behind all A.W.A. products and services are the A.W.A.
laboratories, which have advanced radio in the home, on the
highways, at sea, and in the air. As one of Australia’s key
industrial organisations, A.W.A. recognises the value of
scientific research and its important role in peace and security.
Investigations now in progress include the use of frequency
modulation for telephone communication with moving
vehicles, as well as for broadcasting, development of special
transmitters and receivers to improve radio-telephone services
between Australia and overseas countries, television and
work on a number of new radio aids for navigation.
Over 1000 ships of the Merchant Navy are equipped with
A.W.A. wireless apparatus.
The progress made by commercial aviation and the enormous
mileages covered are due in a large measure to the develop-
ment of wireless and its application to aerial navigation and
communication.
A.W.A. maintains in a serviceable condition all radio equip-
ment in Australian commercial aircraft and overseas aircraft
operating to Australia. Over 150 aircraft for 20 different
companies are serviced by A.W.A. This has necessitated the
establishment of radio-servicing depots at all principal
aerodromes.
BROADCASTING TRANSMITTING STATIONS
WIRELESS TELEGRAPH AND TELEPHONE STATIONS
AERONAUTICAL RADIO EQUIPMENT
MARINE WIRELESS
RADIOLA BROADCAST RECEIVERS
SOUND AMPLIFYING SYSTEMS
JF-f
.
*
fe.
1
Ship’s Wireless Station
1
.
m
' - ;-V
60,000-watt Broadcast Transmitter
:
m
mm
.
■I
■ ■
%
A '
Radiola Assembly at Works
* *
>V
o
■; | 9
m
Studio Control Apparatus
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (Australasia) LTD.
Australia's National Wireless Organisation
0 47 YORK ST., SYDNEY 167 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE
Also at WELLINGTON, N.Z., and AUSTRALIA HOUSE, LONDON
