

&»:•, •’ ■ ■
i-sm
A PRODUCT OF THE
m
ou
O F SEPPELT
The Bulletin
"The Bulletin,” Vol. 70—No, 3630
Wednesday, September 7, 1949
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
IN OXFORD’S MERTON COLLEGE CHARLES II SHELTERED FROM THE PLAGUE
MERTON COLLEGE, which claims to be the oldest college in Oxford,
was founded by Walter de Merton, a Justiciar and Chancellor in the
reign of Henry HI (1216-1272). In 1264 he established on his estate at
Malden, Surrey, a “house of Scholars of Merton,” which should manage
its estates for the maintenance of twenty scholars at Oxford; the Warden
was to live at Malden. In 1266 Walter de Merton purchased the present site
of the college in-Oxford, and in 1274 drew up revised statutes, which
established the Warden at Oxford and laid down rules for the governance
of the scholars, and these statutes became the model for later foundations
in Oxford and for Peterhouse, the first Cambridge college.
The object of the foundation was to provide training and discipline for
the secular clergy, and the students, were to prepare for an active life in
Church and State. Within a century of its foundation the college produced
six Archbishops of Canterbury, and many of the early scientists, astronomers
and physicians studied at Merton.
In September, 1642, during the Civil Wars, Colonel Arthur Goodwin
stayed at Merton when he occupied Oxford for the Parliament. Later, in
1643, the town became a Royalist headquarters, and Queen Henrietta Maria
established her Court at Merton, while the king lived in Chrigt Church.
After the Restoration, Merton was again thronged with councillors and
courtiers when in 1665-66 Charles II and his Queen Catherine and their
Court took refuge here from the Great Plague; the students being sent home
during the six months’ period of the Royal visit. Frances Stuart, Duchess
of Richmond, and the Countess of Castlemaine were given rooms in the
“Fellows’ Quadrangle” of Merton, and the latter bore a son to the King
within the walls of: \ the college. The famous antiquary, Anthony Wood
(1632-95), described tl\e courtiers of Charles IPs Court as “neat and gay in
their apparell” but were “very nasty and beastly rude, rough, vain, empty,
careless.” The recent nook and film “Forever Amber” would seem to verify
this comment, 1


»T»
this Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL—;
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Uviletin.”
My Name
My Address
5.8.U9 AGE
The Red Page
STORIED URNS.
The lack of information about Paddy
Hannan, instigator of Kalgoorlie, having
been mourned in these columns (B.
10/8/’49), Mr. Percival Serle has . come
to light immediately with a notice of the
old prospector’s life, to which he has
added some 1029 other biographies of
Australians, notable or notorious, in the
form of a Dictionary of Australian
Biography in two large, double-column,
500 pp. volumes, finely printed in large
Baskerville type on good paper by Angus
and Robertson. Says Mr. Serle:
1 began collecting the materials for this
book some twenty years ago. The work
was interrupted a great deal, but by 1936
some 17,000 items relating to about 7000
men, largely clipped from various books
of reference and newspapers, had been
arranged and indexed. It was difficult,
however, to provide for the safe keeping
of these records in future years, for though
they could be given or bequeathed to the
Public Library of some State, a biographical
dictionary might be compiled in another
State without its editor being aware of the
existence of these records. I mentioned this
Eroblem to my friend Mr. H. M. Green,
brarian of the Fisher Library, JSydney,
and he suggested that I write the dictionary
myself.
Modestly excusing himself for taking on
a job which, he feels, needed “a strong
editor in charge of a staff of experts,”
Mr. Serle began, well on towards his
seventies, on this huge compilation ; his
original 7000 candidates reduced to 10
Army and Navy representatives, 130
artists, architects, actors. and musicians,
50 governors and administrators, 69
lawyers, 137 literary men and women, 17
notorieties, 161 pioneers, explorers,
pastoralists and men of business, 174
politicians, 76 scholars, philosophers and
clergymen, 140 scientists, physicians,
surgeons and engineers, 53 social re-
formers, philanthropists and educationists
and 13 cricketers and athletes. The book
is not restricted to Australians who lived
and died here, as the long biographies of
Dampier and Cook make plain.
“In preparing this book,” says Mr.
Serle, “though every endeavor was made
to be accurate, hundreds of statements had
to be accepted which could not possibly
be checked” ; and he prefaces the work
with a passage from Lord Houghton, that
Plutarch and Dr. Johnson “must have
been conscious how little of the real men
lay behind [their] strong or graceful repre-
sentations” ; nevertheless, the authorities
he lists at the end of each biography show
a considerable effort to get at the facts ;
e.g.. for less than two columns on Sir
George Dibbs, he consulted . --
The “Sydney Morning Herald,” August
5, 1904; the “Daily Telegraph,” Sydney,
August 6, 1904; the “Sydney Mail,” August
10, 1904; P. Mennell, The Dictionary of
Australasian Biography; B. R. Wise, The
Making of the Australian Commonwealth;
Lady Dorothy Nevill, Under Five Reigns,
p. 234; G. H. Reid, My Reminiscences.
He laments the decay of newspaper
obituaries, and suggests that the lives of
eminent men should be put into
pamphlets immediately after their deaths ;
otherwise the Series of the future may
find it hard to put contemporary Humpty-
Dumpties together again. Still, modern
registration and census methods should
give present-day great men at least this
advantage: that their historians will not
have to settle, as Mr. Serle did, on one
of four or five different dates of birth.
The reviewer who is not prepared to
argue the point with such a scholar as
the author of the Bibliography of Aus-
tralasian Poetry and Verse, 1925, and the
Honorary Bibliographer to the Mel-
bourne Public Library, can do little better
than to satisfy his own curiosity at such
a fountain of knowledge . . . taking down
from his private shelf a little book bound
in red leather, Poems by Mr. Gray,
London, 1776, picked up second-hand
for ss. some years ago. Across the title-
page is written S. W. Griffith. On top of
the title-page is written From Sir Julian
Salomons. Does Mr. Serle know them?
Mr. Serle does. Sir Samuel Walker
Griffith, Premier of Queensland and first
Chief Justice of the Higji Court of Aus-
tralia, was the first Australian translator
of Dante:
Critical opinion of Griffith’s translation
of Dante has ranged from “th» finest
translation extant” to “he has succeeded in
rendering the poetry of Dante into the
language of a Parliamentary enactment.”
And Sir Julian Salomons was the advo-
cate and politician, solicitor-general in
various New South Wales Governments,
who became Chief Justice of New South
Wales in 1886:
Twelve days later he resigned on the
ground that the appointment was distasteful
to two of the Judges, and to a third, [Sir]
William Windeyer, Salomons said “the
appointment seems to be so wholly un-
justifiable as to have led to the utterance
by him of such expressions and opinions
....as to make any intercourse in the
future between him and me quite impos-
sible.”
The three Judges wrote disclaiming
such an attitude, Sir William Windeyer
saying that he had merely remarked that
he thought the appointment “a grave
mistake” ; but, although leading lawyers
wrote asking Salomons to reconsider his
resignation, Salomons would not.
There are a great many people who, if
they were to become Chief Justice of
New South Wales, would be inclined to
stay in a position as near to divinity as
any Australian could then expect to get,
and remain as little sensitive to criticism ;
and for the same reason Mr. Serle’s
remark seems a little quaint: that
Adrian Knox, who in 1919, succeeded
Samuel Griffith as Chief Justice of the
High Court, “was most successful in this
position.” In any case, we can imagine
ex-Chief Justice of New South Wales
Salomons, giving Mr. Gray’s poems to
Federal Chief Justice Griffith, hoping that
he will correctly apply the lines:
Full many a gem of purest ray serene
The dark unfathom’d caves of Ocean
bear....
Unrolling his ample page, rich with
the spoils of time, it has been borne-in
upon Mr. Serle that his 76 scholars, philo-
sophers and clergymen had an average
life of 74.5 years; whereas his 137
literary men and women averaged only
65.1 years, and his 130 artists, architects,
actors and musicians only 63.9 years—
outlived by soldiers, sailors, politicians,
social reformers and lawyers. The 17
notorieties averaged the lowest expecta-
tion of life, 55.2 years; but as Mr. Serle
points out, the figures for notorieties are
arbitrary, as “some were executed or met
violent deaths.”
Ned Kelly, for instance, crowded his
glories into 26 years; and so did John
Hunter (1898-1924), Australian genius of
surgery and anatomy. Of Kelly, as well
as Hunter, it might have been said that
he “analysed the complicated factors of
spinal shock following transverse section
of the spinal cord” ; complete fulfilment
was what
Their lot forbade: nor circumscribed alone
Their growing virtues, but their crimes
confin’d,
or, more properly, Mr. Kelly’s crimes
confined. Dr. Hunter’s virtues circum-
scribed —the desire to make a ss. Gray
pay for itself brings literary property to
war with literary propriety ; but what can
you expert in a country where, as Mr.
Serle tells us, Edward William Cole, of
the Melbourne Book Arcade, had “a
large second-hand department on the first
floor, where a band played every after-
noon”? Mr. Serle also records that
Frank Wilmot, “Furnley Maurice,” the
poet, began working in Cole’s Book
Arcade in 1895, and in 1929, when the
business was wound up, was its manager.
Afterwards he went to Melbourne Uni-
versity Press.
M. A. Noble, the cricketer, was a
dentist; Victor Trumper died of Bright’s
disease; Henry Parkes collected auto-
graph letters and died in poverty ; Joseph
Henry Maiden, director of Sydney
Botanic Gardens and Government
botanist (with whom one’s father came
out to Australia in 1880, in the
Garonne), could always find time, in
the midst of administration and compila-
tion of plant-books, bibliographies of
botany books, papers for learned
societies, and biographies of former
botanic-gardens curators, to look out a
slip or cutting or plant, something new or
rare, for the Newcastle garden of his old
fellow-passenger: a matter not appearing
in the dictionary, which must be ascribed
to what Mr. Serle calls “personal know-
ledge.”
Hilder the painter and Hinkler the
airman were both Queenslanders: Hinkler
has a memorial at Passo Della Vacche in
the Pratomagna Alps; Hilder’s exquisite
memorials in various art galleries may
well outlive that . . . George Barrington,
the pickpocket, did not write the lines
ascribed to him:— y \
True patriots all, for be understood
We left our country for ouj country’s good,
but he did become chjef constable at
Parramatta . . .Two unrelated George
Robertsons began the t>vo largest book-
selling establishments in Australia,
Robertson and Mullens, of Melbourne,
and Angus and Robertson, of Sydney . . .
On some fond breast the parting soul relies,
Some pious drops the 1 closing eye
requires....
People might well fight for a place in
Mr. Serle’s graveyard, more exclusive,
more carefully selective, than any vice-
regal reception ; the inscriptions on the
tombs are very clearly and kindly done ;
and although every effort is made to make
us see all the people as they were in life,
those of whom Mr. Serle can speak with
“personal knowledge,” writers, artists and
actors, especially, may be considered most
fortunate.
Cricket on the Moon.
It is, apparently, possible, or theoreti-
cally possible, for scientists to project
chunks of rock into the heavens to serve
as refuelling stations for space-ships on
their way to Mars; and these islands in
space would become minor moons. You
send them off by atomic power at just
such a pace as will “produce that gravi-
tational equilibrium which sets them cir-
culating around our planet.”
The present reviewer, who knows
nothing at all about science and doesn’t
believe what he does know, acquired this
information from W. A. Amiet’s
Scrambled Scrutinies (Watson, Ferguson
and Co., Brisbane). Mr. Amiet writes on
scientific and literary subjects for the
Mackay “Mercury.” He suggests, letting
his imagination loose to encompass the
worst, that people could go for weekends
to these moons, and;
Monotony may be varied by the party
indulging in a game of cricket, with special
penalties for lost ball. The attenuated
force of gravity on such tiny habitations
naturally makes it a simple matter to hit
the ball right off the moon. A happy
compensation, however, permits the bowler
to spring a mile or two up from the ground
to retrieve it.
Mr. Amiet’s collection of short essays
rather resembles those games of cricket.
He takes his stance comfortably on his
hilltop in Mackay and knocks his cricket-
balls into space. It is a light and airy
game, yet it is worth springing a mile or
two to catch the ball; for, if the metaphor
isn’t getting too complicated, it always
has a core of solid erudition.
How many other Australian essayists
would be able to tell us what “aetiology”
is, let alone to find examples of the figure
in Leonidas of Tarentum and Bernard
O’Dowd? Who knows—and is it not
worth knowing?—that both zEschylus and
Will Ogilvie made use of “erotesis,” so
that “What’s the worth of fences with a
thousand steers abreast?” is “an Aegean
construction in a Condamine setting”?
The Scrambled Scrutinies (or scrambled
cricket-balls) deal also with interstellar
distances, bees, phonetic spelling, lost
literatures, Icelandic and Sanskrit poetry —
“Na nonanunno nunnono nana nananana
nanu” —and what-have-you. And if Mr.
Amiet is capable of such a pun as the
suggestion that a Mr. Marcel Rodd, who
compiled a world dictionary, may be a
Pole, should the reviewer object? Na
nonanunno, as we used to say in Sanskrit.
Vanished Glory.
It is so long since one lived at Bomerah,
the mansion at the tip of Potts Point,
Sydney, that until reading Some Houses
and People of New South Wales _ by G.
Nesta Griffiths one had forgotten that it
is spelt with an “h,” But certain indelible
memories remain.
The swimming-pool, now dry land and
part of the graving-dock, or the road that
runs past it into Woolloomooloo, into
which drifted coke and cabbage-leaves
and, on hot summer nights, trespassers
from the neighboring flats, to be roared
at from afar by the landlady . . . The
generous soul of this lady, living like a
prodigious white dove high up in the
mansion next door . . . The extra-
ordinary janitor who was once seen to
wear a hydrangea in his buttonhole . . .
The heraldic lions with their tails broken
among the shrubs of the garden gone
back to wilderness . . . the girl with the
purple lipstick . . . the statues in the
entrance-hall with their toenails lacquered
crimson by the irreverent . . .
Miss Griffiths’s memories of Bomerah
go back to an earlier period:
Mr. William McQuade built on the
. extreme Point a house called Bomerah,
about 1856, with Mr. Hilly as architect.
My father and mother rented this in 1890.
It was then supposed to be haunted and
my mother’s Japanese butler was terrified
of “sounds in the night.” The ghost was
traced to a muslin curtain which blew in
from an open window and the sounds to
wind in the organ-pipes. With the building
of the Captain Cook Dock this house has
been taken over by the Royal Australian
Navy, and there is little left of the dignity
of the old building.
Well, it is something to have shared a
house with Miss Griffiths, even though
separated by such a gulf in time and
such a gulf in the pattern of society. And
it is something, too, to share a book with
her. For Some Houses and People —the
modesty of its title is an indication of its
charm —is a simple, informal, rambling,
graceful, supremely pleasant sort of
chronicle in which the author and the
reader —if the latter cares at all for the
vanished glories of Sydney—must meet
in the greatest possible harmony. A
Ure Smith publication, it has been printed
in excellent style by Waite and Bull, Ltd.,
with many black-and-white illustrations,
either photographs or reproductions of
paintings and drawings by such artists as
Conrad Martens, S. T. Gill and Sydney
Ure Smith.
Some of the houses dealt with still
stand, with their dignity and beauty kept
alive; some have fallen on evil days;
and some have been pulled down by Gov-
ernments and other vandals. Most of
them Tusculum, Bronte House,
ChevePells, Government House, Burdekin
House, Carrara, Greycliff, Redleaf,
Yaralla, Bungarribee, Camden Park-
will be known one way or another to
Sydney readers. All are worth reading
about.
Miss Griffiths has a rare talent, spring-
ing from her love for pictures, furnishings,
china, architecture —all that makes a
house beautiful —for bringing the old
houses to life, and at the same time she
never forgets that people once lived in
the houses and that men and women, if
not always as well-behaved as cedar furni-
ture, are even more important in recreat-
ing and reanimating the past. As in this
paragraph from the chapter on Camden
Park, we have the house and we have
anecdotes of the people who lived in it:
A very charming and unusual feature is
a book-lined passage from the hall to the
big dining-room, and here John Verge has
let in a lantern window, which gives light
without being seen, and it is never dark
even on a dull day. In the dining-room,
which opens on to the colonnade, are two
great fluted pillars framing a magnificent
sideboard, and, although they look like
cedar, I am told that experts have pro-
nounced them to be of ironbark. Around
the walls hang portraits of many Mac-
arthurs, and in the drawing-room an
exquisite painting of Elizabeth Farm by
Conrad Martens The staircase does not
show from the main hall, as it leads from
a passage at the side; here white marble
treads are mounted on cedar, and slender
wooden railings lighten the effect. If one
turns to the side below the stairs the
supporting pillar is encased in rounded
cedar, forming a most lovely column with
wide steps leading down to an enormous
cellar, which is a tunnel the complete
length of the house, where the wine was
stored. On the southern side are numerous
other rooms, a study and writing-room,
and a delightful room on the corner known
as the South Room, where people have
had strange psychic experiences. A Miss
Wooley, who was staying at Camden Park,
one evening distinctly saw her father stand-
ing looking, at her; she learned later that
he had been drowned that very day.
Reading of these mansions one is re-
minded of a poem by Yeats, “On a House
Shaken by the Land Agitation - ’: how
does it profit the State, he asks, to destroy
the houses where art is cherished, where
fine craftsmanship is fostered, and where
life is lived with dignity and grace?
Perhaps the wicked capitalists and
aristocrats were, after all, only servants of
the people, set in big houses to decorate
the spectacle of existence in a way that
is impossible in an era of Housing; Com-
mission boxes. But at the same time,
if Miss Griffiths, as one old Bomerah in-
habitant to another, should happen to
know of a nice old stone house for sale,
on a considerably less elaborate scale ...
Does Bomerah mean nothing in the
modern world?
Bowled O'Reilly.
While science is still trying to discover
where flies foregather in the winter this
page knows at least what ex-cricketers
do in the same season. Latest evidence to
hand, Cricket Conquest (Werner Laurie),
is a product of W. J. O’Reilly’s off-
season activity.
In the days when he reigned high
among the flannelled giants, O’Reilly, in
his approach to the bowling-crease,
always gave an impression of grim,
almost ferocious, determination, deficient
in humor and devoid of sentiment. One
suspects that he approaches a typewriter
in like vein.
Cricket Conquest covers virtually the
same ground as Fingleton’s recent
Brightly Fades the Don. But whereas
Fingleton skimmed lightly and easily
over the terrain (with occasional tedious
halts), O’Reilly ploughs in deep.
The O’Reilly style tends to the
cramped and pedagogic, and somewhat
lacks humor, but a fair proportion of
what he has to say is worth saying and
well enough said. His lack of senti-
mental emotion often enables him to see
clearly the cold factual basis of things
and to deliver an intelligent opinion on
controversies in which previous com-
mentators have become bogged in their
own bathos.
Finally, it must sadly be said that
O’Reilly belongs to the school of those
who are .not ardent admirers of Brad-
man —a school which produces sound
and fury out of all proportion to its
size.
The British Yoke: E. W. Evans
(Hodge). Survey of the present state
and problems of the Empire, chiefly the
Crown Colonies, with some notes in an
appendix about Communism in Malaya-
Mr. Evans, who is Lecturer in Colonial
History at Bristol University, writes with
detachment, balance and humor.


TRUTH IN
Mt
ADVERTISING”
CWI
I
lili
m
9S
' *
■
u
11
1
■
M
60 Measured
in each
pair of these comfortable Julius iff
<0
w
Top left. Moccasin by JULIUS MARLOW in Brown Calf with leather
or non-slip rubber soles; also Brown and Fawn with rubber soles. 45/-.
Top right. A JULIUS MARLOW Brogue, styled with stout soles and
wide welts. In rich Tan Calf or Black Box Calf. Multiple sizes. 45/-.
:r r - :jr**'"’
'
m
m*
mm
m
<
I
■
«:
■
Above. A JULIUS MARLOW Oxford in Tan or
Black Box Calf, 45/-. Also Black Glace Kid, 49/-.
'Left. JULIUS MARLOW, imported Scotch Zebu
uppers, 58/-; in Tan or Black Box Calf, 55/6-
Wlien mailing in your order, enclose a sketch
of your foot! To do this, place your foot, wearing
a sock, on brown paper, and with a
pencil, outline the shape. Send this
outline, together with size you usually
order, to Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney.
£
**
MEN’S
SHOES —GROUND FLOOR,
GEORGE


The Bulletin
Vol. 70—No. 3630
Wednesday, September 7, 1949
LASSETER CHIFLEY’S LAST RIDE.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE; 252 George Street, Sydney ;
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
LAST LAP.
Parliament meets today for a brief
session which will serve chiefly to open
the election campaign, to follow in
a few weeks’ time. Its successor will
see a two-thirds increase in the numbers
of each chamber, under legislative pro-
visions devised by the Socialists to bolster
their failing hopes of retaining power,
thus perpetuating the most cynically un-
democratic regime which has yet con-
trolled the fortunes of this country.
Earlier in the lifetime of this Parlia-
ment, when distance lent enchantment to
Mr. Chifley’s forecasts of the conditions
of today, it was planned that the elections
would be fought on “Labor’s” gift to
Australia of the “Golden Age.” The
progress towards this Socialist utopia re-
quired a certain amount of sleight-of-
hand (such as the duping of the country
over the socialisation objective) and the
protraction of war-time centralised
controls by hook or by crook, until a
bloodless revolution should have en-
trenched a little facsimile of the Soviet
State on the ruins of the Australian
Federal Commonwealth. A Socialist
dictatorship founded on the consent of
a supreme council of the trade-unions
would (according to plan) displace Parlia-
ment, and the “Golden Age” would
descend on us all in the guise of —
“Full employment,” an uninterrupted
era of more jobs than working hands.
Steadily-rising wages—even wages de-
clared by decree —and firmly-pegged prices
of goods.
More and more leisure as the working
week was made shorter and shorter.
Centralised control from Canberra of
everything and everybody.
Social security (money handouts, or
their equivalent) for every individual, from
the cradle to the grave.
And, of course, complete elimination of
private enterprise from industry, produc-
tion, distribution and exchange.
Just how and whence the necessary taxa-
tion was to be provided was never made
clear, this and all other awkward ques-
tions being waved aside. No go-getter
in the commercial world ever flourished
such a wild-cat of a prospectus. To date
all that has been proved is that this Gov-
ernment can’t even run a little goldmine
like the Post Office except at a loss.
Gradually the “Labor” tune has
changed. Twelve months ago “Labor’s”
campaign-advisers, notably the apparently
indispensable Mr. Kennelly, M.L.C., of
Victoria, started reinsuring themselves
against the Golden Age turning dog on
“file movement.” Party spokesmen have
since been ringing the changes on:
(1) Return of “Labor” to power is neces-
sary in order to maintain “full employ-
ment” and the “unexampled prosperity”
which it has brought about.
(2) The “recession” always foretold by
our great leader is upon us, and only
“Labor” can get the country out of it
without damage and suffering.
In point of fact, every trade-union execu-
tive in the land has been proclaiming, by
its behavior, that it knows the ramp of
higher wages for shorter hours cannot
long continue, and has been striving only
to get as much as it could while the “good
time” should last, regardless of the effect
on the nation’s economy or the level of
national production.
The Budget speech, which will be Par-
liament’s window-dressing for the elec-
tion, will doubtless illustrate Mr. Chifley’s
circus-act of riding both these horses at
once. He must keep one foot on pros-
perity as the achievement of his Govern-
ment, for any let-up on that would be
fatal; and he dare not lose stance on
the back of the other nag, for his Tmancial
manipulation has been meaningless unless
as provision for lean times approaching.
His line, therefore, is once again to appeal
for confidence “on ‘Labor’s’ record.”
Well, what is his record?
Financially, it is one of inflation, set
in train when, in 1947, he abandoned con-
trol of wages in his planned economy
and clung to control of prices at the
existing level, on the Trades Halls’ instruc-
tion. His oppressive taxation (direct and
indirect) has killed incentive to hard work
by employees and enormously increased
the cost of goods. The scarcity of basic
commodities is a disgrace to a country
with such a post-war opportunity as that
presented to Australia.
Economically, it has been one of reduc-
ing working time in industry through
pressure upon the Arbitration Court in the
40-hour-week case, and of appealing
impqtently to the unions to increase pro-
duction ; impotently because, while he
would not himself lift a finger to reduce
costs of production or the intolerable
weight of Government expenditure, he
could hardly hope to prevail on the unions
to do the job tor him.
Politically, it has been one of persistent
endeavor to by-pass constitutional ob-
stacles to his socialisation programme and
of repeated challenges in the High Court
on the invalidity of his legislative and
executive acts; of refusal to accept adverse
decisions at referendums so long as there was
a hope of beating the umpire; and, notably
in the Bank Grab Act, of downright deceit
of the electors from whom he neither held
nor sought a mandate.
On this record Mr. Chifley’s opponents
may well be content that he should stand.
After Ins exploitation of the 1946 elec-
tion vote it is clear that nothing Mr.
Chifley may say in a policy-speech de-
serves credence unless he comes out
frankly for the socialisation of banking
and all industry in the country with the
utmost possible speed. To that pro-
gramme he and his party are “completely”
(as he would say) committed. If the
people object to this aim and to his
tactics in pursuing it —and the nation-
wide protests which greeted his Bank
Grab Bill were unmistakable sign of
their objection—this will be their last
chance to pronounce judgment on him.
Mr. Chifley’s message to his party last
Christmas contained this battle-song:
The new year will be crucial for the
“Labor” movement It will be necessary
to stand firmly together, to keep our ranks
solid, and work unceasingly for the return
of the “Labor” Government.... “Labor”
has a platform and a policy which it has
proceeded to put into effect, and for which
it will continue to legislate.
“It will be,” he had said a little earlier,
“the most bitterly fought election in Aus-
tralia’s history.” Mr. Ward, chiming in
on that utterance, announced that, what-
ever the Privy Council’s decision on the
Bank Grab case, “the banks will be
nationalised, and it is only a question of
when we shall be able to do it. Nation-
alisation is fundamental, to the ‘Labor’
party’s policy, and without it ‘Labor’
cannot exercise political power."
Only now are the Socialists beginning to
pipe down on the Red Objective—as they
did also at the elections in 1946. The
country then, though by no great majority,
believed them. But after the numbers
had gone up there was no restraining
them. “On and on to a Commonwealth
operated in the socialistic manner,”
chanted Mr. Pollard, one of the apolo-
gises for the Communists, who is
Minister for Commerce and Agriculture ;
and campaign-director Kennelly, cele-
brating the victory with a holiday in
Canada, told a Toronto audience that “as
soon as Australian banks are nationalised,
iron and steel will quickly follow” ; that
“what the unions want we as a political
party will, as far as is practical, do.”
Munitions Minister Armstrong’s contri-
bution was that “if the bank-nationalisa-
tion Act is held unconstitutional, it will
be brought into effect by other means;
there are men of reasonable ingenuity in
the Cabinet who will see to that.” Are
they game to come clean with this pro-
gramme for the elections now at hand?
It is for the Australian people now to
call their hand.
That the Socialist programme entails
compulsory direction of labor along with
every other centralised control Mr.
Chifley made very clear to the unions’
conference in Sydney last September. Its
first manifestations are seen in the
attempted regimentation of doctors, den-
tists and nurses under the “free”-medicine-
and-doctoring scheme, despite an express
reservation in the powers exercised for-
bidding “any form of civil conscription.”
There can be no illusions left on this
score; the example lies in the “Control
of Engagement Order” of the Socialist
Government in Britain, under which, as
one “Labor” rebel said in the House of
Commons, “the Government can do any-
thing it likes to any person in the nation
except throw him into prison,” and a party
veteran, Mr. Rhys Davies, declared —“A
pair of handcuffs are not easier to wear
because they shine with a Socialist solu-
tion.”
Lastly, Mr. Chifley will have the oppor-
tunity of proclaiming once again to this
strike-tormented community that “only
‘Labor’ can bring contentment in indus-
try,” that “only ‘Labor’ can get coal,”
that “only ‘Labor’ can combat Commu-
nism.” His admirers are trying to build
him up as the Abraham Lincoln of Aus-
tralia. But, unfortunately for the Chifley
stage-managers, it was Abe himself who
said “.... but you can’t fool all the
people all the time.”
Canberra and China.
the dangers of the shuation in China
are indicated better by the reported
statement of General MacArthur that
“ the Re( i ro H fo China must be stopped
, f r
dtid fought anywhere and everywhere
than by the imminent approach ot the
Communist troops to Hong Kong.
. Ge “ Ma^“ r
have told an American journalist that the
Nationalist cause in China Was “less
hopeless than the world believed,” and to
. j.j „ flnnnnnrp
have demanded a rmgmg announce-
ment that in China and the Far East
the United States “will support anyone
and everyone who is fighting Com-
munism.” *
The “ringing announcement,” however,
does not need to be made only by the
United States. It is called for from all
the Western Powers. So far the inten-
tion of only one European nation is
clearly evident. Britain has poured troops
into Malaya and Hong Kong to the extent
of a couple of divisions, but this has been
done in the same way in which Socialist
Governments do everything—too little,
too late, and with a discouraging fussi-
ness and an apologetic air.
Nothing, of course, can be expected
from the Commonwealth. The Chinese
Communists not only have headquarters in
Peking, but in every trades-hall in Aus-
tralia, And the war is not a mere Chinese
affair, but one organised in Moscow to
sweep through the whole of Asia and the
Pacific Ocean. It is just as much a war
of imperialism and aggression directed
against the Western Powers as was the
Japanese drive southward, and Australia
is as much, perhaps even more, menaced
by it than by the Japanese onslaught. It
is insidious because this country is honey-
combed by traitors who are tolerated by
the Government and who control
powerful unions, which hold the Govern-
ment to ransom.
The Moscow technique called for a
policy which would build up the trade-
unions in Japan even before peace was
within sight, for the Communists needed
the unions as weapons of the cold war
for the capture of Japan. So Dr. Evatt
and the Communist party were to be
heard in a co-ordinated chorus demand-
ing the building-up of a “democratic
trade-union movement” and behaving like
the shadows of General Derevchenko, the
Russian delegate in Tokyo. When the
Communists needed a civil service and
railway strike to paralyse Japan and the
American occupation, Dr. Evatt and his
spokesmen were firmly on the side of
the “right to strike”—the “right to strike”
in a conquered country under occupation
to be ceded to “unionists” who quite
recently had been torturing Australian
prisoners-of-war, and many of whose
leaders were being tried for their lives!
After that Dr, Evatt and his agents had
to submit to being treated like small boys
by General Mac Arthur, and they appa-
rently have had such a lesson that their
voices have not been raised in Japanese
affairs for a full year.
In Indonesia, with the help of the
remnant Japanese armies of occupation,
plans were made before Japan’s collapse
for a rebel gang, among whom were
leading collaborators and equally leading
Communists, some of whom did their
planning in Australia with the help of
the secretaries of a few of the largest of
the Australian “Labor” party’s integral
Communist-led unions, to prevent the
loyal and friendly Dutch from re-
establishing their control. The Com-
monwealth Government has throughout
been on the side of the rebels and col-
laborators. It has recognised their dele-
gate to Australia as a Minister when there
has been no country for him to represent.
It has readily submitted to a union boy-
cott of ships trading with Indonesia, just
as it submitted without protest to
the murder of Australian soldiers and.
airmen and to the massacre of British
and Dutch nationals, including women
and children, by the friends of Comrades
Healy and Thornton.
In June, 1948, when rubber output in
Malaya, so valuable to British recovery
and to the defence of the British Com-
monwealth, was in danger through a
Communist civil war in which Australians
had been murdered and large Australian
interests were threatened, J. T. Lang
called the attention of the Prime Minister
to the part which the Australian Com-
munist party was playing in the disturb-
ance. He quoted Comrade Sharkey as
saying:
What has to be struck down in Malaya
is not, as that imperialist dog, Malcolm
MacDonald, declares, the Malayan Com-
munist party, but brutal British imperial-
ism.
Mr. Lang asked Mr. Chifley whether he
was aware that Sharkey had recently
conferred with Malayan Communists,
and whether he would see to it that no
further passports were issued to Aus-
tralian Communists to visit Malaya, and
that no further propaganda of incitement
to Asiatics be sent abroad by the ruffian
agents of Moscow lodged in the Com-
monwealth.
Mr. Chifley answered —and the sneer
was obvious —that he had “read of
political and industrial disturbances in
Malaya,” but was “not aware of the facts
surrounding them” —he must have been —
and he had not read Mr. Sharkey’s state-
ment, but would “have the issues ex-
amined.”
There has been no action. There has
been no deprecation by the Common-
wealth Government of the Communist
actions in China or of Russia’s
part in them by Dr. Evatt or by
his “leader.” There has been no
exposition of Australia’s foreign policy
in the East since it was obvious
that any remarks made in sup-
port of the British or opposed to the
Australian Communist party’s viewpoint
would be received in Marx House with
hostility.
Even the pretence that we have a
foreign policy affecting the Far East has
been thrown overboard since Nanking
was captured at the beginning of the
year. The “moderates” of Canberra are
quite content to allow the waterside
workers and the ironworkers to direct
and manage Australia’s foreign relations
in the Far East. They seem to believe
that their only duty is to turn over when-
ever Comrade Ernie Thornton turns over.
That attitude the Opposition should
insist upon having changed during the
early part of the coming session. The
situation calls for a declaration of sup-
port of the British in Hong Kong, and
for a firm public assurance which the
Communist world can understand that
if British Commonwealth interests in the
Pacific are further threatened, Australia
will take a lead in tackling the menace
without waiting to be asked.
The Wonderful Jew.
This troubled world’s greatest need to-
day—indisputably that of the British
Commonwealth, and no part of it more
than Australia —is a statesman with
imagination, plus the strength of pur-
pose and other qualities which almost
invariably go with it.
Britain had one in the last century in
the person of Benjamin Disraeli, born a
Jew of foreign descent and not baptised
till he was 13. Despised because of his
race and ridiculed for his dandyish ap-
pearance and manners, Disraeli, always
then financially embarrassed, was four
times defeated before he became M.P.,
and hi§ enemies in the House of Com-
mons contrived to make his maiden
speech a failure. They are all forgotten,
and even Gladstone is remembered only
for a Disraelian thrust, “intoxicated with
the exuberance of his own verbosity,”
and for his spectacular failures. But
Disraeli, to Bismarck “the old Jew,” is
among the immortals.
A public man for 44 years, he found
Britain a distracted country, in spite of
Waterloo, and left it in the soundest and
strongest position it has ever held.
In home politics he possibly averted
a revolution by extending the franchise
—here running counter to the feeling of
his followers —and he established the
Conservative party, not as “an organised
hypocrisy” (his own expression) but on
the basis of Tory democracy, for which
it still stands.
In foreign affairs he was right, and
most of his contemporaries were wrong,
on every major question that came up in
his time. “The Crimean War he was un-
able to prevent” (the words are those of
his none-too-friendly biographer Froude),
“but so good a judge as Cobden,” an
opponent, “believed that if Disraeli and
Lord Derby had not been turned out of
office in 1852 they would have prevented
it,” and saved “the million lives and a
hundred millions of English money
which that useless business cost.” And,
standing almost alone against “a great
majority in Parliament” and “three-
quarters of the London and provincial
newspapers,” “Dizzy” frustrated Anglo-
French recognition of the Slave States in
the U.S. Civil War; “he advised and in-
sisted that the Americans must be left
to shape their fortunes in their own way.”
Had “the great majority” of Parliament
and Press prevailed there could have
been no decisive American intervention
in die wars of 1914-18 and 1939-45.
And it was Disraeli, of course, who—
on his own responsibility and with a loan
of four millions from Rothschilds —
bought the Egyptian Khedive’s 177,000
Suez Canal shares.
Nor would Turkey, had Disraeli’s
policy been followed, have been among
our enemies, together with Bulgaria, for
which he never had any use, in 1915. The
Turk, to him, was “the only gentleman
in the Balkans.” The fury which this
evoked in the sentimental England of
the ’seventies seems strange to us now.
Certainly recent events in the Balkans,
and in Czechoslovakia and Poland, have
ironically justified the phraseraaker’s
scorn for the pro-Slav hysteria of Glad-
stone.
Sagest of Empire men, uncom-
promisingly opposed always to “the
attempts of Liberalism to effect the dis-
integration of the Empire,” which failed
because of “the sympathy of the colonies
with the mother country—they have de-
cided that the Empire shall not be
destroyed”—he vainly urged a policy
which was too farsighted for lesser men
to accept.
And when, after the Indian Mutiny,
lesser men “clamored for retaliatory
severities which would have been fatal
to our reputation, and eventually perhaps
(i Continued on page 7.)


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Chifley and Kempsey.
The people of Australia, particularly of
N.S.W., and most of all those of
the Kempsey area may ponder these
figures: —•
The population of Kempsey and sur-
rounding districts, afflicted by the most
disastrous flood known along the Macleay
River, is about 20,000.
Last year Mr. Chifley dragged out of the
Australian people in direct and indirect
taxation £423 million.
Taking the population of Australia at
7,800,000, this taxation represents £54 a
head.
Pro rata for Kempsey area the taxation
would be about £1,000,000; or, if that is
regarded as an unfair average, say £500,000.
With the whole district prostrate by the
disaster, Mr. Chifley offers for their relief
—from his hoards in the Federal Trea-
sury—just £20,000.
Just £20,000 —£1 per head for this
stricken population! He recently boasted
of his works programme in preparation
for a “recession” of £743 million. He
has not, of course, got all this: but in
a national emergency, he conveys, he
would spend it.
Could any emergency be more desper-
ate than that of Kempsey? Could the
life of any Australian community be
more blackened out than Kempsey’s to-
day? For a “national emergency” Mr.
Chifley let on he will come across with
£743 million —about £lOO per capita. For
Kempsey’s emergency he can find only
£20,00.0—-a pound a head —less than Dr.
Evatt’s department spent last year on
the Legations in Chile and Brazil.
Mr. Chifley flits about Australia in a
special plane. He has not gone near
Kempsey. His G.-G., McKell, has just
been spending an air holiday in Aus-
tralian tropics. He has not gone near
Kempsey. No Federal Minister has been
interested to that extent up to date. Mr.
Chifley is “awaiting a special commit-
tee’s report” before—on behalf of the
Australian people, whose money it is—
he gives more than £20,000.
Goodbye, Mr. Chif.
The "Labor” Split.
Federal Ministers’ pretences that the
Communists are some fourth party allied
politically with the Liberal and Country
organisations against “Labor” are getting
a showing-up in the domestic war now
spreading in executive councils within
“the movement.”
The Communists are out to down the
“A.L.P. groups,” formed with Canberra’s
blessing to counter the Reds on union
executives, and the Government’s action
against the Communist-led coal strike
brought the trouble to a head.
To the dissension aroused between fac-
tions which supported and those which
resented the Government’s emergency
strike legislation, the use of troops to
break a strike, and the jailing of strike
leaders (though this was done by the
Arbitration Court for offences against it-
self), has been added the weighing-in by
the Roman Catholic Church against the
party’s socialisation objective. Like all
other opposition to the full socialisation
programme accepted by the Chifley sec-
tion of the Cabinet, this indictment by
the Church was bound to increase in
vehemence as the election date drew
closer.
The bluff put up at “Labor” confer-
ences last year that the socialisation
objective did not mean what it plainly
says —because of a falsely-styled “official
interpretation” of it (dating from a de-
feated resolution in 1921)-—is being chal-
lenged in many “Labor” electorate
councils. It is to be remarked that Mr.
J. E. Heffernan, who enters the “S. M
Herald’s” lists against the Church in this
issue, and signs himself “chairman for
defence of A.L.P. principles and plat-
form,” was accused by the chairman of
the appeals committee at the N.S.W.
A.L.P. conference last June of consistently
supporting the Communist party. To
that Mr. Heffernan (representing there the
Com.-run Sheet Metal Workers) replied
that his industrial activities “would be
determined by his union, and if the
‘Labor’ party doesn’t like that, they know
what to do.”
It was at this conference that, when
one speaker said party members were
“not necessarily” pledged to complete
socialisation of industry, the chairman,
Mr. J. A. Ferguson, retorted:
There can be no ambiguity about our
policy of socialisation, and anyone who
does not subscribe to it is not in sympathy
with the “Labor” party.
Which is exactly Mr. Chifley’s attitude.
At the line-up in Sydney Trades and
Labor Council the other day on a motion
condemning the Government’s action
during the coal strike the vote was 115
to 49, showing nearly one-third to be
Communist sympathisers. Simultaneously
200 members, “representing 50 A.L.P.
branches in N.5.W.,” met in Sydney “to
discuss the Federal Government’s viola-
tion of ‘Labor’ policy, and prevent the
‘Labor’ party becoihing more liberal than
the Liberal party,” and passed a resolu-
tion demanding disbanding of A.L.P. in-
dustrial groups and the reopening of the
party’s pre-selection ballots for the
general elections.
This meeting also demanded that the
charters of two A.L.P. branches in Mr.
Ward’s electorate and several in other
constituencies —all declared bogus by the
A.L.P. —be restored. It created Mr.
Heffernan’s “committee for defence of
A.L.P. principles and platform,” which is
to nail complete socialisation to “Labor’s”
election masthead. Last week-end the
State A.L.P. fired Heffernan and several
other officials of branches out of the
party.
Meanwhile the 8.W.1.U. in N.S.W. has
joined seven prominent unions in Victoria
in refusing to pay A.L.P. dues, and if the
Communists and these party fellow-
travellers can capture control of the
A.C.T.U.’s biennial conference in Sydney
next monththey are expected to run
opposition candidates in many electorates
against the pre-selected ones.
The Chifley plunge of 1947 into
Socialism has done what party leaders for
25 years feared would happen (where-
fore they kept the Red Objective for
window-display purposes only). It has
split the party from top to bottom.
National Theatre.
Even if the commercial theatres were
based in culture, interested in developing
the potentialities of Australian actors and
aware of the existence of some Australian
playwrights, there would still be a place
for a national theatre in which quality,
not money, would be the first considera-
tion.
But Mr. Chifley was canny in proceed-
ing with caution in his offer to the
Premiers’ conference. Anybody who
attempted immediately to establish a
national theatre would plunge into
enormous expense and, probably, into a
donnybrook just as prodigious. Each of
the capital cities, as well as Canberra,
would have its claim to a theatre ; and
scores of amateur groups would want to
be seen and heard.
The Commonwealth has offered £20,000
to train Australian actors overseas and
£30,000 —to which the States are asked to
add a further £30,000 —to provide a
reserve fund for a national theatre. For
the first three years it is proposed to
import overseas companies while gradu-
ally preparing the ground for Australian
effort.
The fundamental problem, which must
be solved if a national theatre is to be
more than a toy for intellectuals, is the
scarcity of good Australian plays. Not
only the actors, but the playwrights and
the plays must spring naturally from our
own soil if we are to have a living theatre
corresponding to the Norwegian move-
ment based on Ibsen or the Irish on
Synge.
Some good Australian plays have been
written; possibly enough to make a start
with. But a body of Australian dramatic
literature does not exist. Primarily this
is a matter for the playwrights; whether
or not there is an immediate return in
money, they must write the plays.
But an English playwright, if he strikes
the West End, can make a fortune. The
Australian playwright, faced with utter
blank indifference by the commercial
theatre, can turn for support only to the
A.B.C. —a body which means well, and
pays for a play about £25. It is hardly
surprising that the literary energy of this
country has been diverted to the novel
and the short-story.
Mr. Chifley’s proposals hold out some
dim hope to the Australian playwright.
Nothing is said about including Aus-
tralian actors in the casts and Australian
plays in the repertoires of the visiting
companies, and it would be foolish to
press the points; but obviously it would
be both tactful and useful for the visitors,
as an act of grace, to consider them!
And, after three years, there is the possi-
bility that Australians may be able to
see their own plays performed by their
own actors.
But all this is indefinite, distant, and
therefore frustrating to those who want
to see some action. What is urgently
needed, while the Commonwealth plans
are maturing, is that the State Govern-
ments should help the amateur groups
to find a central and reasonably large
theatre in each of the capital cities. In
the boxes and barns to which their
limited finances restrict them, some of
them have for years been putting on far
better shows than the average commercial
production.
Drunken Driving.
Following an outburst in the Press a
Sydney magistrate came down heavily on
two motor-drivers convicted of driving
while drunk and awarded them a year’s
jail apiece. Others convicted of the same
offence can expect heavier penalties than
have hitherto ruled.
Good, no doubt. But punishment,
propaganda and appeal are all aimed at
the motor-driver; nothing is said about
where he gets his liquor or about the
absurd drinking rules which in themselves
contribute heavily to the road toll.
Any analysis would show that a large
proportion of drunken drivers are pro-
ducts of six-o’clock closing, Sunday clos-
ing and the silly 20-mile limit or what-
ever it is. Six-o’clock closing entices a
man not only to have more drink than
he needs, but to have it quickly, after
which he gets in his car or truck and
joins the homegoing traffic. If he knew
that he could go to the “local” after tea
and take leisurely drinks up to 8 p.m.
he would perhaps be satisfied to finish
driving first and drink afterwards.
Sunday-closing and the 20-mile limit re-
sult in scores of cars and trucks rendez-
vousing at places 30 to 50 miles from the
city every Sunday, to get drink the single
purpose. The limit was put on in
horse-and-buggy days; the motor age
laughs at it. A new phenomenon is wives
and mothers joining in the Sunday-
drinking tours. And every golf and bowl-
ing club becomes, to some extent, a trap
for its motoring members at weekends.
What the law now does, and what the
“safety” propaganda is aimed at, is the
effect. The cause, apparently, is to re-
ceive no attention at all.
JUGGERNAUT JOE v. THE TITO TERROR.
“I wonder what would happen, John, if I threw a handful of dollars into the ring!”


: .ro. --r .r
sear
A J
s \®~«a
g \a
A
**
5728E-R
Keep
to—
cb mgs
for y» wr 1
Obtainable
in 10’s & 20’s
$ky ■* •
• : Vv
•‘ X: :' •
■B
O?
sm-
msBi
:; ; : :SwS;
CARRERAS LIMITED-OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
to the Indian Empire,” Disraeli de-
nounced these “feelings” as “heinous.”
His own policy was to make India “the
brightest gem in the British Crown.” If
the “gem” is irrecoverably lost, the
Hindu and Mohammedan States have
not altogether abandoned the associa-
tion which Disraeli brought about or
become insensible to the spirit which ani-
mated him and was transmitted.
For the man was no Jingo. He saw
and said clearly that the Empire had
been created and must be maintained by
“the character of the English people”
and could not survive “a dissolution of
manners and morals.” As Froude put it,
“the only progress which he could ack-
nowledge was moral progress, and he
considered that all legislation which pro-
posed any other object to itself would
produce, in the end, the effects which the
prophets of his own race had uniformly
and truly foretold.” So it is easy to
imagine what Disraeli would think of the
gambling fever now raging in Australia,
and in Britain itself, there with the con-
nivance and here with the active support
of his Majesty’s Government.
And Disraeli was always alive to in-
ternal dangers menacing the State. “You
will observe one curious trait in the
history of this country,” he wrote in one
of his novels, all too little read:
The depository of power is always
unpopular: all combine against it; it
always falls. Power was deposited in the
great barons....in the Church....in the
King; Parliament, using the people, be-
headed the King, changed the King, and
finally for a king substituted an adminis-
trative officer... .For a hundred and fifty
years power has been deposited in Parlia-
ment, and for sixty or seventy years
Parliament has been becoming more and
more unpopular... .As we see that the
barons, the Church, the King, have in turn
devoured each other, it is impossible to
resist the impression that Parliament also is
doomed to be devoured; and he is a
sagacious statesman who may detect in
what form and in what quarter the great
consumer will arise.
Like so many of Disraeli’s other say-
ings and writings, this pregnant passage,
though over a century old, has a strik-
ing modern significance. It is startlingly
appropriate to the present state of affairs
in Australia and in Britain. In each
country we see a Parliament —“Labor”
—made unpopular by its own sins of
commission and omission challenged by
militant trade-unionism, all the more
dangerous because its leaders take their
orders from a treacherous foreign Power
with a world-wide organisation, every-
where seditious. And in each country a
Man with something of Disraeli’s
imagination and spirit will be needed if
Parliamentary government is to survive,
except as an empty show.
POLITICAL POINTS
Sequel of the Sydney meeting of
A.L.P. “rebels” in condemnation of the
Government’s “violation of the platform
and principles of the A.L.P.” was the ex-
pulsion by the State executive of five of
the prime-movers in the stunt and with-
drawal of the charters of two branches.
Those expelled were T. Morey, president
of Paddington branch; J. Heffeman,
secretary of Summer Hill branch; A. E.
Butler, president of Darlinghurst branch ;
J. M. Kenny, member of Darlinghurst
branch, and C. Reilly of the Waterside
Workers’ Federation. Summer Hill and
Hurlstone Park had their charters with-
drawn —a fate which had already befallen
Darlinghurst and Paddington. Dario
and Paddo branches are in Eddie Ward’s
East Sydney electorate, and the attitude
of Ward towards the Chifley moves in
the coal war doesn’t seem to have been
very different from that of the expelled
men. But from Eddie so far has been
heard not a word.
Just as Hollway had convinced himself
that petrol-rationing would have to come
back, after all, his Housing Minister,
Warner, announced that the concern of
which he is managing-director had non-
dollar petrol on offer from Russia if the
Federal Government would issue import
licences. He had applied for licences
back in July; so far no decision had
been given. Hollway decided to hold his
horses until Chifley looked into the
alleged offers—there was another to
Ampol from Polish sources. Dedman,
without waiting for further details, said
Warner was speaking from “abysmal
ignorance.” Time will show whether
he was right. A point which calls for
explanation is why wasn’t the July appli-
cation dealt with expeditiously. If Ded-
man is right the application could have
been rejected right away. As it wasn’t
rejected—and still hasn’t been—it is
reasonable to assume that it seems suffi-
ciently genuine to merit consideration.
That being so, why didn’t the P.M. tell
the Premiers about it?
Next week is Miners’ Week in Czecho-
slovakia, and Alexei Stakhanov is taking a
delegation of Russian miners to Prague
in honor of the occasion. Stakhanov is
the bloke who, by cutting 102 tons of
coal in six hours, became a hero of the
Soviet and gave his name to a movement
for speed-up in Russian industry. It is
not true that the Miners’ Federation has
invite.d him to visit Australia, but the
suggestion is offered gratis to Baddeley
on the eve of his appointment as Director
of State Coalmines in N. S. Wales.
After a long and determined fight by
Mrs. Vasey and the War Widows’ Guild,
the Repatriation Department has been
forced to acknowledge that bureaucrats
have no control of the private lives of
people. The war widow whose pension
the department cancelled early this year
for what it termed her “misconduct” —
she was accused of having a friend of the
opposite sex —has had it restored in full,
with arrears, and the W.W.G. is looking
up other cases.
There’s a corned-beef rush on for the
“Labor” nomination for Redfern in the
N. S. Wales Assembly, vacant since the
death on July 9 of G. H. Noble. The
late member’s son is one contender ; there
are seven others.
Although “Labor” Governments refuse
to see any virtue in compulsory secret
ballots for trade-union elections many
rank-and-file members don’t agree with
them. This week C. C. Lazzarini, one-
time Minister for State Enterprises in the
Dooley Government, will bring the matter
up in caucus. He proposes compulsory
unionism, compulsory secret ballots and
independent supervision of union elec-
tions. Caucus will probably grab the
first item in. its teeth and kick the other
two out of the way.
Two years ago Darling Downs farmers
grew four million bushels of grain
sorghum in response to Government urg-
ing, the stuff being supposed to be wanted
for Britain, It was left to rot where it
was harvested and stacked. Is it any
wonder the Queensland Graingrowers’
Association condemns the Peak Downs
“sorghum - for - Britain” scheme as a
Socialist stunt and won’t have a bar of
it? Anyhow, they’re going to invite
Premier Hanlon to publish a balance-
sheet on Peak Downs. It should make
interesting reading.
Of all the assistance, financial and
otherwise, offered to flood-stricken
Kempsey, probably none was more appre-
ciated than the £3OOO from Maitland. It
is only a matter of three months since
Maitland itself suffered a disastrous flood.
Calwell is very concerned about what
we should call his New Australians; the
newcomers themselves are probably more
interested in how we treat ’em. The Com-
munists are opposed to bringing them
here at all; so is Calwell’s erstwhile
friend, Ward. The Miners’ Federation
won’t have them; the Building Workers’
Industrial Union —another Red show —
does its level best to keep them out, and
the unions in the steel industry have
grudgingly accepted an agreement, of
which Calwell seems proud, conceding
to the newcomers such distasteful jobs as
the native-born do not want. Last
week a N. S. Wales Water Board spokes-
man blamed the Brick, Tile and Potters’
Union for the shortage of earthenware
pipes, saying that it would not accept Balts
into the industry. The union responded
that it took such a stand “in the interests
of the Australian worker and the union’s
bargaining power.” That’s a point
Calwell might look into. There should
be no need for “bargaining power”
under “Labor’s” streamlined Arbitration
system.
Chifley told a “Labor” meeting in Mel-
bourne Town Hall that he wouldn’t stand
for abuse and slander in the forthcoming
election. Does this mean that Ward, Cal-
well, Haylen, Dedman and others are to
go about gagged during the campaign?
The Taxpayers’ Association of N. S.
Wales has asked the Prime Minister to
consider concessions to elderly taxpayers,
pointing out that in Britain and U.S.A.
special allowances are made for persons
over 65. The association suggests that
as taxpayers over that age have very little
chance of ever benefiting from the
National Welfare Fund while the means
test remains, they should be exempted
from social-services contribution. It is
a suggestion that deserves consideration.
They’re quick to learn. When the Meat
Industry Employees’ Union insisted that
lads earning more than £3 10s. a week
should pay the full adult rate for union
membership, the boys went on strike and
almost stopped the mutton section of
Brisbane abattoir.
Aikens, the Mundingburra (Q.) Inde-
pendent, who is overgiven to abuse, some-
times puts over a good one. Accused by
Crowley (Lab., Caims) of having been a
loafer as a railway employee, Aikens
called Crowley “the vacant allotment in
Cairns.”
The bill under which the A.M.P.
Society is empowered to develop the tract
of land on the Adelaide-Melbourne line
which till now has been known as the
Ninety-Mile Desert passed the S.A.
Assembly last week. The scheme is a
new departure in assurance-society acti-
vities ; the A.M.P. will develop the area
with ex-servicemen, who will be given
priority in the allocation of blocks.
Dedman has denied that he told :
Mackay (Q.) people that the Government
was considering a referendum on its
banking policy ; he was misreported. On
his own protestations Deddy seems to be
the most consistently misreported man in
the Government. It must be his Scots
accent.
If the Canberra Socialists really believe
they have achieved “full employment,”
why do they spend tax money on a string
of labor exchanges titled Commonwealth
Employment Offices?
The Chifley crowd is fond of saying
that the old capitalist system has given
way to the new socialist system, but what
is really happening is that Australians are
being persuaded to adopt a leaning-on-
the-Government system.
In circulation again after a period in
Long Bay jail for contempt of court,
Idris Williams, Communist boss of the
Miners’ Federation, was “gravely
alarmed” on being told, before the Coal
Tribunal, that evidence on the long-
service leave claim would be reopened.
Mr. Gallagher recalled his warning of
July 15 that unless work was promptly
resumed, the hearing would have to be
reopened to admit evidence of additional
burdens thrown on the community and
the industry by the strike. Williams was
highly indignant.' He “had never heard
of it....we were in the custody of his
Majesty Officials were not allowed to
visit us.” He and his fellow-Reds were
cut off from the world entirely, it seems,
during that interval, saw no newspapers,
heard no news; the strike might have
been over, for all they knew! Yet, though
Williams heard nothing (he said) of the
Tribunal’s warning, he missed no word
of such published (and propagandist)
statements as that “Government authori-
ties said the men’s claims were just,” and
that “Arbitration was ready to issue an
award.” And, anyway, the strike was
being run by a substitute executive, chosen
by Williams and the others before they
“went in.”
Oversea shipping freights have been
bumped up 12 per cent. Reasons: slow
turn-round of ships, rising costs and the
effect, delayed, but piling up for years, of
petty waterfront-stoppages ; in short, job-
control by the Red malcontents who dic-
tate Australia’s foreign policy.
Brian Doyle, in a pamphlet “Labor’s
Socialist Objective,” refuted the argument
—Calwell was one who advanced it —that
the official A.L.P. policy on socialisation
was the Scullin-Blackburn interpretation
of the 1921 Socialist Objective, which it
was claimed had the effect of watering-
down the full socialisation programme.
He pointed out that the “interpretation”
was put to the 1921 Conference, but that
the chairman’s ruling was that it was not
carried. The pamphlet caused N.S.W.
Lands Minister Billy Sheahan to come in
fighting with:
The episcopal assumption of Mr. Brian
Doyle that he speaks to Catholic opinion
on politics with the same authority as a
Bishop addressing members of his flock
would be grotesque if it were not so
pathetic.
There was more to similar effect, but
no comment on the matter contained in
the pamphlet. Sheahan, like every other
“Labor” member. State and Federal, has
signed the socialisation pledge. Does he
believe in it or doesn’t he?
In its determination to rule the wave-
lengths the Chifley Government has
claimed a monopoly of frequency modu-
lation and television. Not content with
that, it now apparently intends that
the supply of television equipment shall
be the monopoly of Amalgamated Wire-
less, in which it is the biggest shareholder.
And this despite the fact that public
tenders were called for. One of the
tenderers, Electronic Industries, of Mel-
bourne, hearing ( the dogs bark that
A.W.A. has the contract in the bag, has
complained to the P.M.G. that the speci-
fications issued to tenderers were too
vague for proper competitive tendering.
The company has threatened High Court
action if the department does not call for
fresh tenders. A.W.A. has a good record
and should be well able to stand on its
own feet, but the story irresistibly recalls
the Government’s treatment of T.A.A.
and its competitors.
Last week Mr. Justice Barry restored
to Melbourne “Argus” its status of daily
paper which until recently had never been
questioned. A lower court had ruled that
publication of emergency power restric-
tions in the “Argus” did not conform
with regulations which required advertise-
ment in a “daily paper,” because the
“Argus” is not printed on Sundays. Re-
versing that decision, the Judge said:
When a journal is spoken of as a daily
newspaper, the language used is to describe
a publication that is published day by day
rather than periodically at intervals of a
week or longer.
He ruled that a daily newspaper was one
which was published on each day per-
mitted by law. Publication of Sunday
papers is not permitted in Victoria. The
person most concerned over the decision
had nothing to do with the newspaper
industry. The reversal of judgment cost
him a fine of £2 with costs; offence,
using a radiator during prohibited hours.


Society
“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS "
“Bo”: Perhaps it is that nuclear
fission produces in those who fool around
with it some peculiar cerebral radiations
—anyway, two bad cases broke out last
week. One was an English physicist who
cast up in Moscow and told an assem-
blage of Comrades that it wasn’t the
Allied bombing which beat the Germans
nor the atom-bomb the Nips, but “the
might of the Red Army.” An infinitely
worse case was that of another English
atomic-research professor who, furious at
officialdom’s placing lights over park-
benches and policing parked cars, advo-
cated the establishment of “cupidoriums
where young lovers could cuddle away
from prying eyes.” The already-socialised
professor seems to have overlooked the
certainty that such cupidoriums would
immediately be nationalised, and that this
would inevitably entail such red-tape rites
as form-filling before entering, allotment
of space, rationed time, names and
addresses, descriptions and production of
ration-card numbers, cuddle-licences,
etc. And who would be in charge of a
cupidorium but a socialised curator and
a herd of tin-pannikin sub-bosses who
would make the place as populous as
Pitt- or Collins-street in the lunch-hour
rush. Anyway, any lover who is so brain-
less and unimaginative as to be frustrated
merely because a park-bench is too well
illuminated ought to give up loving as a
hobby and take to stamp-collecting or
fretwork.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”; Tenders were called for
the purchase of the freighter Time, now
doing time on Corsair Rock, at the
entrance to Port Phillip, and she was
“Beaut horns, Dad—under without touching, see ?”
knocked down to some Queenscliff
fishermen for £950. The hold contains,
or contained, 2500 tons of sugar, but
the ocean at Sorrento, 20 miles away, is
reported to taste sweet, and sharks in
the bay are concerned about the inci-
dence of sugar diabetes ; so there’s no
profit that way. Any of the wreck that
washes up on the beaches is the property
of the Receiver of Wrecks, and if the
tide washes the hulk away or heavy seas
smash it before the buyers get busy on
it they will still have to pay the agreed
price. Still, the insurance value is
£30,000, and the ship is full of fittings.
The Orungal, burnt and beached at
Barwon Heads, was a goldmine for
Whelan the Wrecker,” who,- taking a few
months off from changing the face of
Melbourne, bought the hulk and turned
his “bulls” loose on it.
* * ♦ *
“Kokoda”: A field of investigation
that merits the attention of medical re-
search-workers is the apparent disappear-
ance of scribbler’s itch ( Cacoethes
scribendi) among Bulletin readers in
New Guinea, the Solomons and other
Pacific islands. From the end of World
War I until about 10 years ago I can
recall that seldom an issue passed that
did not contain at least a dozen para-
graphs from contributors in the islands,
and that seldom a year passed without its
quota of Pacific-island short-stories and
verse. What a prolific and interesting
team those contributors were! Within my
time I can remember Jack Higginson
(“Bouragi”), Lionel Armit (“Kikori”),
Beatrice Grimshaw (“Kukuku”), Dick
Goodyear (“Lagani-Namo”), Jack Mc-
Laren (“Up North”), Dick Williams
(“Morobe”), Alys Brown (“Momokeni”),
Jack Scott (“Wee Bobbie”), G. H. Vernon
(“Ponipe”), A. G. Leslie (“Topee”),
Gilbert Turnbull (“Tauwarra”), Ernest
Osborne (“Te Babarantiko”), and Robert
Brothers, Dick Humphreys and Pearson
Chinnery—whose pen-names I have for-
gotten. The task of explaining their dis-
appearance seems to be a job for Dr.
Jack Elkington, a long-distance Bulletin
writer and a medico with a wide experi-
ence of tropical maladies.
* * * *
“Pookie”: Story told by Ben Barton,
of Brisbane, sometime guest at Changi.
The prisoners’ concert-party was good—
it included well-known theatrical names
and did wonderful things to lift morale.
Once, however, things went wrong. There
was plenty of laughter, but the wrong
sort and at the wrong time. To puzzled
entertainers waiting their turn backstage
there was a regular process: an act would
be barely on its legs when they would
hear a gale of inappropriate mirth. What
was happening was that a band of Nips
sitting in front had concealed a small ape,
and as each act started they threw the
animal on the stage. The monkey
scurried across the stage and tried to bite
the artist, and the combination of shocked
surprise and animal antics made the
fickle mob laugh—and ruined the act.
Came the turn of Ben and his partner
Barney Bolton, and the comedy was re-
peated. Barney snapped to attention and
gravely bowed to the simian, with a re-
spectful hiss: the courtesy exacted, under
pain of heavy punishment, from p.-0.-w.
to all Japanese. In a matter of seconds
a flustered guard scrambled on to the
stage, soundly cuffed the monkey, and
returned with it to his scowling Tellows.
This time the audience roared triumph-
antly—and the show went on,
* * * *
“Findy”; A liner on the way from
Calcutta to Brisbane has encountered
a Chinese kite, trailing a couple of
hundred feet of twine, 150 miles out in
the Java Sea. Reading of it took me back
to the “parachute” craze which caught
the imagination of Australian schoolkids
in the days when aeroplanes were a
brand-new wonder. They were easily
constructed. You tied lengths of cotton
to the four comers of a square of silk
and then secured the four ends to a large
cork. Next you wrapped the lot care-
fully around a small stone and threw it
up into the air. The stone fell out, your
parachute unfolded and was wafted along
on the air currents. All you had to do
was chase it until it decided to come
down. I once owned one which made me
the envy of all my mates; my mother’s
best gossamer had provided the material.
On a balmy spring day I took it to school
in Port Augusta (S.A.). “Give us a
throw,” requested my cobber. I obliged.
He hurled it well up and the ’chute
“When the gas is off I use a yeast-and-corn mixture, dear.”
opened out, drifted slowly down to about
20ft. and floated across the play-
ground. We .chased it. It cleared the
fence, came almost to the ground and
then rose again. Other kids joined us
as we followed it down the street. The
school-bell rang, but no one took any
notice. It was heading for the Gulf, with
most of the school in full cry behind it. A
couple of times it seemed to be about
to land, but each time an up-current of
air caught it. We reached the wharf and
could chase it no further, but stood there
watching it cross safely to the other side
of the water and, still flying strongly,
disappear in the direction of Central
Australia. That was nearly 40 years ago.
Port Augusta has long since forgotten me,
but I’ll bet there are plenty of middle-
aged citizens there who remember my
parachute.
* * * *
“Mullum”: I can’t vouch for this one,
but it was reported in the local paper
and no subsequent apology ever
appeared. The council, urged on by
several petitions, decided that a certain
street-corner should have a concrete kerb
and gutter. Workmen began the pre-
liminary excavations and discovered that
a curb and gutter already existed. They
had become so overgrown that everyone
had forgotten they were there.
* * * *
“Ailouros”; Well, “Jurumudi” seems
to know that albatrosses haven’t any
supernatural influence, but ask people
who’ve met the birds out at sea, Herman
Melville never forgot his first sight of an
albatross:
A regal, feathery thing, it arched forth
its vast archangel wings as if to embrace
some holy ark....As Abraham before the
angels I bowed myself. I cannot tell, can
only hint, the things that darted through
me then.
There was also the mysterious vision of
Lewis Carroll’s gardener:
He thought he saw an Albatross
That fluttered round the lamp;
He looked again, and saw it was
A Penny-Postage-Stamp.
Incidentally, Shelvocke’s birds were
giants—“some of them extending their
wings 12 or 13 foot”—and hardly suit-
able for a sailor’s necklace. Just before
writing The Ancient Mariner Coleridge
read in Captain Cook’s Voyages of a
kind of albatross “not unlike the seagull,
though larger.”
* * * *
“Norther”: Another amateur weather
prophet has turned up, this time in the
person of J. C, King, a Dalby (Q.) man
of 66 who forecast the Kempsey flood
rains 24 hours before they arrived, and
has forecast heavy rains along the Queens-
land coast this month and next. King,
a half-caste, claims he’s been forecasting
for 40 years and hasn’t made a bloomer
yet. Sight, smell, hearing and taste,
applied to the sky, winds and atmosphere,
are his guides. He supplies the forecasts
to newspapers, radio-stations, farmers
and railway station-masters. This is all
right in its way and I don’t question Mr.
King’s ability, but why is it necessary for
station-masters to be supplied with fore-
casts of the weather?
* * * *
“Copy Boy Once”: Nine-tenths of the
youngsters who want to become
journalists, I contend, have little, if any,
qualifications for the work and are merely
attracted by the so-called glamor of the
game. The other day a well-dressed
stranger drifted into my room. “You
won’t remember me,” he said, “but more
than 25 years ago you gave me some
sound advice and did me a good turn.”
Questioned, he said that in the
early ’twenties he had just completed his
law studies, was on the point of joining
an old-established law firm, but had a
hankering for a career on the Inky Way.
He had visited me seeking tips on how to
enter journalism. “You told me,” said my
visitor, “to stick to law and to write, if I
must, in my spare time. You also told me
that if I had ink in my blood I would
end up a pressman whether I wanted to
or not; but you strongly advised me not
to toss up something sure for an uncer-
tainty.” “What happened?” I asked.
“Well,” said my caller, “I stuck to law
and I now have a big practice in Queens-
land. Incidentally, I’ve never written a
line for publication since the day I walked
out of your office.” I suspect that there
have been many more like him—they only
thought they wanted to be journalists.
* * * ♦
“Fitz”: Lecturing before the war to
some literary socialites on The Bulle-
tin’s early history, I had reached the
point of telling an anecdote concern-
ing Jimmy Edmond and a Chinaman. The
yarn did not present the Chinaman in a
favorable light, and I had hardly started
on it when I saw in the third row a well-
dressed, charming little lady who ap-
peared to me to be undoubtedly Chinese.
Going into a tailspin, I hurriedly substi-
tuted a Jap for the Chinaman. The
change ruined a good story—it had some-
thing to do with a pigtail, and whoever
heard of Japs in Australia wearing pig-
tails? But, as I thought, it saved both
myself and the lady discomfort. Making
my farewell to the president of the group
after the lecture, I congratulated myself
upon my presence of mind in effecting the
switch-over in the yarn. Madam Chair-
woman looked coldly at me and said: “I
would have you know that that lady is
the wife of the Japanese Consul.”
>i= * * «
“Saltbush”: A friend of mine hopes
Brisbane traffic-constables read “Brolga’s”
account (B. 17/8/’49) of a Sydney police-
man protecting a small car from a large
bus. He claims that the tram which bit
his toes off a few weeks back was sooled
on to him by the traffic-cop.
* * * *
“P.E.”: Bill Madden (B. 24/8/’49)
could sign his name, although that
was about as far as his use of
the pen went. I have a discharge
dated February 23, 1914, with Bill’s
signature. He was then master of
the Oonah and I was his No. 1. It was
the custom of the mate to receive all
letters from the office and take them up to
the skipper, who, on a pretence of look-
ing for his glasses, would say “Here,
open this, and tell me what they say.”
He would then depute to the mate any
instructions necessary. Notwithstanding
all this, Madden was an excellent master,
and people around Burnie always knew
the time by the unfailing regularity with
which the ship made port. That, of
course, was in the days when ships left
Melbourne on time.
He * * •
“V. Cluse”: A lot of mystery surrounds
the blowing-up of a Catalina aircraft as
it rested on the pellucid waters of a bay
in our suburb, which happens to be sited
above a flying-boat base. The thing went
up in the early hours, and subsequent
research showed that a crude time-bomb
had been the cause. Suspicion seems to
be centred on ( a ) a disgruntled employee,
(b) Communists. My own notion is that
some one or more of the citizens who’ve
been writing to the papers from that
suburb complaining about the noise of
arriving and departing aircraft arose at
midnight, waded and swam out to the
moored Cat., placed his bomb, got back,
heard the explosion and then snuggled
down in the blankets—avenged at last.
“THUS KINDLY WE SCATTER.”
At last the last session
Of Parliament’s on;
Those lovely companions
Will soon be all gone,
To return, reinforced.
From electoral beats —
For over-long sittings
Have doubled their seats.
Meanwhile, should we hasten
To kiss them goodbye?
Not while Arthur Calwell
Is there standing by.
Competing with Arthur
Would only be waste —
He can kiss them or curse them
With far less distaste.
We’re even prevented
From shedding a tear
While clever tear-jerkers
Like Chifley are there,
Who mourned so sincerely
The straits in the siege
Of the workers he starved
For his party’s prestige.
Again, if some lone one
Should pine on the stem
And lie with the voters
Instead of to them,
He knows what we’ll feel
If he’s left on the shelf,
And he’s saved us the trouble
By helping himself.
So no more regrets
For the end of the reign;
They’ve nothing to lose
And we’ve something to gain;
So long as it changes
Or goes in reverse.
It’s bound to be better—
It couldn’t be worse.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
oSuujvajv
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
head office and factories
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS 4 OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVER*
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : I PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
•jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
thick/ Relieve Dragging Pain
BACKACHE
of
mUMAT/SM
Rid your system of
acid
uric
excess
Those nerve-wrack-
ing pains in the back
and joints, that really
“get you down,” sap
your energy, and
cause untold discom-
fort—especially from
middle-age onwards
are frequently symp-
toms of kidney trouble,
caused by excess uric
acid.
Gently, safely, surely.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills
help your kidneys to fil-
ter out those accumul-
ated poisons, and cleanse
the system. Start on a
course now —enjoy free-
dom from kidney troubles
that make life miserable.
Thousands of sufferers praise
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills for
genuine, relief!
27 pills 2/ —GO pills 3/-.
At all chemists and stores —
in the new, bright red and
green carton.
TAKE
Dr. Sheldon’s
rOB THE KIDNEYS
0Fr£ r #/J/(r/A/
or/ve#
A/o
COLOURS
I
$
f
if
o
No other colour
pencil equals the
“Derwent” for the
superfine quality of both
lead and wood, the purity and
brilliance of the primary colours
and the delicacy of the pastel tints.
In all 72 accurately repeated colours,
no refinement has been spared to obtain
the highest degree of light fastness and
general permanence. The colours mix and blend
well in both wet and dry applications; effects
similar to water colour and tempera may be obtained by
applying solvents such as Dekalin. Unquestionably, the
“Derwent” will measure up to your most exacting demands.
If unobtainable from your stationer, kindly contact your nearest agent.
Supplied in neat attrac-
tive stand cases in the
complete range of 72,
or in 36, 24, and 12
assorted colours. Also
boxes of 12 separate
colours.
( PENCIL ~COM PA NY LIMITED )
Representatives in Australia
Vic., S. Aust. and Tas.: HUBERT JOHNSON PTY'. LTD-. 324-33C1 Flinders St..
MELBOURNE, C.l. N.S.W. and Queensland: WYNY £RD TRADING CCX,
Kembla Bldg., Margaret St.. SYDNEY. W. Aust.: CHAS. A. DONALD,
Economic Chambers, William St., PERTH.
ADVERT OF BRITISH PENS LTD., BIRMINGHAM. ENGLAND.
“Clooter”; A city newspaper was so
upset about three tennis-players being
beaten that it let itself go in this fashion:
“Disappointment is understandable, but
there is no need for Australians to be
dejected that Schroeder and Gonzales
shattered our Davis Cup hopes. After all,
it is something for this country to be
second in the world of tennis.” This so
stirred my national sentiments that I cut
the piece out and went forth among the
downcast of the city, sitting in sackcloth
and ashes, and cried to them, “Be not
despairing because the German and the
Spaniard have defeated us. Lift up your
faces and cry, ‘Lo, it is something to be
second.’ ” Whereupon an anxious fellow
rushed upon me and said, “What’s this
about the Fritzes and the Spaniards?” I
showed him the cutting. “Pull y’r head in,
mug,” he said. “Them’s Americans.”
Then he lowered his glance and clenched
his fists and growled, “Y’ wouldn’t be
havin’ me on, would y’, mug?” Preserv-
ing the unshaken demeanor that has long
distinguished the Clooters in moments of
crisis, I withdrew, leaving the dejected to
wallow in their misery. To hell with
tennis!
♦ * * *
“Pawang”: I don’t suppose the New-
castle magistrate who sentenced seven
youths to attend church every Sunday for
12 months wanted to surround religion
with unfortunate associations for them,
but I’m afraid that is all his action will
do —instead of preventing delinquency it
may enhance it. I was never made to go
to church as a child until I asked to be
taken, and then I spent the period of the
service on the floor of a pew looking at
the colored bookplates in my mother’s
hymn-book. Later on I became a most
assiduous churchgoer and got a reputa-
tion for extreme piety—there was a nice-
looking girl in the choir, and when she
left for another suburb my zeal for
churchgoing diminished. Still, churches
have such pleasant association for me
that although I no longer attend them I
still like them, and whenever I see a
parson I feel an impulse to take my hat
off. A boy who is condemned to a year’s
churchgoing as a punishment for stealing
would tend thereafter to think of a parson
as a jailer,
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: The old-time wedding
with its longwinded toastmaster was often
a pretty grim show (B. 6/7/’49), but at
least it was free of the modern horror —
the street-photographer. In addition to
the studio photographs the modern bride
must have a “Leica-man” lurking at the
church door to take a dozen or so angle-
shots on the steps. During the breakfast
he comes to light again—plugging in
miniature searchlights in order to photo-
graph the couple cutting the cake. After
that the really serious business of making
money commences. Every female friend
and relative of the bride has to be taken
with her —and the bridesmaids, and the
bride’s mother, and the bridegroom’s
mother, and, well, anybody else at hand.
All at a bob or so a pop. By that time the
rest of the feminine guests have realised
that photos are being taken. More bobs for
the photo-man. If only they would stop
at that. But they won’t. One by one
protesting husbands are dragged away
from the keg and stood alongside their
wives in the pitiless glare. More bobs.
The photos have one virtue: a fellow can
see exactly what he would look like if
he tried to disguise himself behind a beard
Sin. long.
* * ♦ ♦
“Hamer”* People for their special
occasions like the trite sentiments every-
body understands; there is no cause for
surprise in “B. Acer's” attempt to dodge
? lS - report . Victor
r?‘. 27 L 7 i 49 bg Ki a with an
Daley had a profitable contract with an
undertaking firm to write Obit, and In
Memonam quatrains which the firm
retailed to its clients. When he found,
to .°’ that honest efforts to dodge the
cliches were not approved he, with his
tongue m his cheek, set out to see how
far he could go in triteness without hav-
ing his offerings rejected. He swore that
the worse the verses were the more the
firm and its clients liked them. The
connection gave Victor other advantages.
For instance, he and his pals could carouse
and sleep it off in the Kirby stables, which
were then where a car-parking station
stands off Castlereagh-street, near Hunter-
street. It was a Kirby hearse that Victor
and Harold Grey (“The Pilgrim”) bor-
rowed for their mock funeral escapade. I
fancy it was that exploit which ended
Daley’s connection with the firm.
“X.M.N.”; Charts (B. 17/8/’49)?
“L.W.” must need a guiding hand if he
wants anything better than those issued
today. The main steamer-tracks are the
tried and tested routes and obviously the
track any prudent navigator is going to
take. His assertion that the chart be-
comes a blank north of Cairns makes me
wonder how we found our way around
in ships vastly bigger than a pearling-
lugger, and that under war-time condi-
tions. I’ll admit it wasn’t fun, but the
charts in use from the later surveys of
1944 onwards lack nothing in detail and
are as accurate as anything I’ve ever had
anything to do with ; they were printed
in Australia, and were beautiful jobs.
Admittedly the New Guinea sheets weren’t
so good, as we found out by spending
several hours at one time or another on
different reefs. The old-man and I had
a very unhappy morning on the bridge
going between Goodenough and Ferguson
Islands wondering if the charted reefs
really did exist and how far we could go.
We were taking a R.A.A.F. engineer
crowd to Goodenough to build the strip ;
the C.O. had the best chart I’ve ever seen,
an aerial photograph of the passage.
After that it was easy.
* * * *
“Col”: Brownie’s soap was the joke
of the camp while we were waiting on
Morotai, early in 1946, to go to Japan
with the 8.C.0.F. Somehow or other
he had collected about 50 cakes of the
unwrapped stuff we got as our free issue.
“When I get to Japan,” he would say,
“I’ll wog this stuff off in no time. You
wait, and see. I’ll have one of them
Leica cameras in a week.” The boys
kidded him unmercifully. The word
“troppo” was used freely, but Brownie
was not impressed. When he got orders
to move with an advance party his soap
was his first concern ; it went aboard
with the unit stores. We followed to
Japan a month later, and the first per-
son we saw on the wharf at Kure was
Brownie. “Did you get rid of the soap?”
we yelled. He nodded unhappily.
“What did you get for it?” we asked.
Brownie spat over the edge of the wharf.
“Fourteen days,” he said.
* * * *
“Becks”: lam prepared to grant radio-
announcers considerable latitude in their
efforts to preserve the purity of the
language, but there must be a limit. It
was surely passed last week by the Sydney
announcer who spoke of a gunman escap-
ing from a Black Mareea,
* * * *
“Tid’apa”: Not so long ago the staff
of the island cable-station where I was
doing a spell of duty put to head-office
what they considered a perfectly legiti-
mate request —they asked that the
Chinese dhobies whom they considered
totally unsuitable for laundry work
should be replaced by young Chinese
laundresses London regretfully refused
to send the washerwomen, but intimated
that the next relief-ship would bring a
supply of Board of Trade limejuice,
which was to be issued gratis to the staff.
* * * ♦
“Gravelsnatcher”: A Westralian
country brewery has closed down because
of high costs of production, and the re-
port has staggered consumers. It wasn’t
the cost of wages, malt, hops or barley
that cut into the profits. It was a charge
of four and six a thousand gallons for
water! Citizens who would blush to be
seen near a tap are asking themselves
how much of the stuff they’ve drunk try-
ing to absorb a little beer.
A LOST MYSTERY.
“A visiting business executive says the problems
of corsetry need be whispered no longer in men’s
presence. There is a frank recognition of garments
which are essential to women’s modern living.”
Time was when it was looked upon as some-
thing
To worst sartorial sacrilege akin.
At least, in the most liberal view, a rum thing
(As queer as knocking beer back, say, for gin)
For man to do aught but remain a dumb thing,
Forbidden e’en to conjure up a grin
When ladies, with demure, averted gaze,
Made mention of the garment known as “stays,”
It seemed a plot to keep his interest heightened,
Milady’s “mystery” to keep intact;
It wouldn’t do to have him too enlightened
As to what shore her chassis up. In fact
(Although a few odd benedicts had tightened
Their laces), “stays” still generally smacked
Of something that one vaguely guessed was
there
But couldn’t see—something, rather, like air.
And then arose, amid the acclamation
That genius must invariably claim,
One who, foreseeing that attenuation
Had to be linked with some less prosy name
Than “stays,” hit on the elegant “foundation”
For bone-and-satin moulding of Eve’s frame.
How simple, thus, a quondam shame could be
Invested with respectability 1
These days, of course, there’s candid recogni-
tion
Of bulging curves that must be tight confined.
The virtues of the roll-on’s circuition,
The supple beauties of the full-length kind —
These are discussed by men sans inhibition; •
They’re mostly, anyway, by men designed.
The all-revealing ads. have blown the gaff,
And radio-comics plug it for a laugh.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Mat’s Mate”: A few weeks before
the job cut out we went into town and
got the tailor to measure us for new suits,
in which we intended to dazzle the city.
After he’d run the rule over Mat the
tailor noted down minor particulars and
then said, “Y’ better have a banana-
pocket in the coat.” “Whatinell’s a
banana-pocket?” Mat demanded. The
tailor explained that it was a vertical
half-moon sort of alfair. “The latest,”
he urged ; “everybody’s having ’em.” “I
ain’t,” Mat snorted. “What d’ y’ think
a man is, a flamin’ nigger or somethin’?
Cripes, y’ll want t’ put pearl-buttons on
me west next.” Snips argued about it,
insisting that “banana”-pockets were the
“very latest.” “I’m sure,” he said, look-
ing warmly at me, “your friend intends
to have one.” Mat put a large hand on
the tailor’s shoulder and said, “Look,
mate, I got nothin’ against you. But my
mate an' me has lived an’ suffered an’
drunk an’ toiled an’ starved an’ tramped
together for nilly four years. I ain’t
sayin’ I’d do murder for him, but by
cripes you put a flamin’ banana-pocket
in his coat an’ I’ll choke y’.” Then he
squeezed the little man’s shoulder hard,
and all argument about banana-pockets
vanished.
**• * *
“Naturala”: “G’snatcher” needn’t
worry about any termite supremacy over-
taking this earth. The insects had their
big chance back in the days when Man
hadn’t even learned to wear a loincloth,
much less build a house. They probably
were living in civilised communities when
Homo was still worrying about his tail
getting in his road, now that he had come
from the trees to the ground. And with-
out doubt backward Man, as today, at
every possible opportunity dined avidly
“You'd get out of ANYTHING, Spike, after that last move!”
on termite, straight or broiled. Actually,
the termite fills a niche in Nature’s scheme
of things, and no more. Without it the
Dame would have to depend on the slow
process of bacterial decay to transform
cellulose back into humus. Without the
termite the earth’s surface millions of
years ago would have become overlaid
yards deep with fallen timber that refused
to return again to the soil, which, stripped
constantly of the elements of growth,
without adequate return being made,
would have lapsed to barrenness. So the
termite stepped in, and by doing a first-
class job— to modern man so objectionable
when applied to a structure built by him-
self—has restored, and keeps restored, the
balance of Nature.
“Marduk”: Queer meals for termites
(B. 10/8/’49)? Out on the Great Vic-
toria Desert (W.A.) we often found, after
rain, big succulent mushrooms riddled by
white-ants. Once, when on a goldseeking
trip I left behind in the locked humpy a
line library stored in pine condensed-
milk-cases, I returned to find about 100
books eaten through. A great quantity
of new W.A. railway bed-sheets, stored
on a ground floor, were found, only re-
cently, to be eaten beyond all possible
use by termites that had come up through
the floor. But there is one substance they
won’t bite on to; coal-tar. Standing on
badly-infested country, the tarred jarrah
stumps supporting one of my humpies
have resisted termite invasion for 20
years.
♦ He *
“Telarb”: Torres Strait kids, in the
initiation ceremonies of old, learned to
be tough the hard way. At Mabuiag
they differentiated between the good lads
and the pests—for the latter there was a
special pre-ceremonial treat affair. Taken
to the ceremonial grounds, they were
first warned of the consequences of their
flashy ways, and it would be suggested
that these ways might even attract the
attention of devils, after which all the
elders except two would leave the area.
Shortly one of them would pop up in the
guise of a devil, at which the kids would
start to light out for the horizon, but at
most points of the circumference there
would pop up more devils, all chattering
horribly, until the kids were driven to-
wards the only part where no devils were
materialising. But here was lying a piece
of rope held by a couple of men in
hiding. As the boys flashed across the
rope would be jerked tight, and as they
went sprawling their mentors would
spring upon them and belt the daylights
out of ’em with whips and sticks. Then
handfuls of green-ants would be lightly
rubbed on to them—rubbed to make the
ants good and mad —and the kids then
allowed to go, shrieking like fiends, to
wherever their inclination took ’em.
When it was noted they had learned their
lesson they went through the normal
initiation, but should they still be a bit
above themselves there would be another
dose of devils, whips and ants. It was
an almost-certain cure.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: I remember my intro-
duction to Joe Stalin. We’d been talking
outside old Ted’s feed-shed until, the
light drizzling rain becoming what he
called “A bit too many on to one,” I
followed the old chap inside and sat
beside him on a feed-bin. Lolling back
against a heap of bags I suddenly felt
my blood go cold—colder than the thick,
gliding body behind the back of my
neck. “Snake!” I yelled—and jumped
forward about 18ft. When Ted had
finished having convulsions he informed
me, between fresh roars of mirth, that
though he might live to be 99, he never
hoped to see anything funnier than my
startled leap with about-face in midair.
“But there’s a dirty big snake in that
heap of bags!” I yelled. “It’s only Joe
Stalin,” he explained, still gurgling. “He’s
a diamond ; and don’t he give the rats
what for!” Somewhat relieved, I asked:
“Why do you call him Joe Stalin?” Ted
chuckled some more. “Do you know of
a bigger snake?” he grinned. In time I
got used to Joe, if not to his habit of
suddenly swinging his head down level
with your face. Then one day I arrived
just in time to witness his execution. It
seemed that young chooks had dis-
appeared when Joe couldn’t prove an
alibi; and now five pullets were missing,
there were five distinct bulges along that
9ft. of snake, and Joe, in gorged content,
had been found in close proximity to
“M for mother—U for uncle—R for Roger—D for Donald—E
for Eddy—R for Roger again!”
the scene of the crime. He didn’t even
stir when his head was placed on the
chopping-block. The blow fell. Im-
mediately a post-mortem was performed
in order to prove that justice had been
done. It had. In various stagesi of
digestion were the missing birds. The
most recently swallowed was scarcely
marked. Apparently diamond snakes
swallow their meals without the pre-
liminaries that their black cousins carry
out. I saw one of that type crush a dead
pigeon in its coils until the carcass was
a shapeless mass. Then the horrible
reptile slobbered all over the mess. After
that—well, I don’t know ; I was too busy
being sick.
* * * *
“Colonial Cove”: That experiment of
the siesta on the station mentioned by
“Old-timer” (B. 10 /8 / ’49) recalls that in
the first two years of the Swan River
Settlement in W.A. the notion prevailed
that it was inhumane to ask laborers to
work through the heat of a summer
afternoon. So the infant colony witnessed
the spectacle of all laboring work sus-
pended between, the hours of 2 p.m. and
4 p.m. But the notion passed when many
of these laborers, landless in the Old
Country, suddenly found themselves with
the opportunity of winning the fee simple
of anything from 10 to 1000 acres,
though mostly it was only a few
acres of river flats on the *Swan or the
Canning, where by means of a well and
a bucket quite marvellous crops could
be grown right through the summer.
Those early battlers soon forgot to take
note of the heat.
sp * * *
“0.R.K.”; The Australian painted snipe
appears occasionally along the N.S.W.
coastal belt and a rare one falls to the
gun of the sportsman out after what are
colloquially known,as “Jack Snipe,” other-
wise Japanese or Latham’s snipe. The
painted snipe has a distinguishing pecu-
liarity. On skinning the only one I ever
bagged I found that the windpipe, in-
stead of going down into the thorax
direct as in other birds, went outside the
chest just underneath the skin to the
abdomen. There it was arranged in a
coil about the size of a shilling and went
thence upwards to the neck, still just
under the skin. At the top of the chest
it went down into the lungs. Possibly
the reason is that the snipe breeds only
in the northern islands of Japan and
Siberia, and the coiled windpipe may be
designed to warm the cold air before it
enters the lungs. Incidentally, it has
been stated that the eggs of the Jack
Snipe have never been found.
* * * *
“Betcha”: I’ve struck blokes who can
wield a stockwhip, who can excite the
echoes with a seemingly continuous
stream of explosions and trip a man with
the lash almost without him feeling or
knowing he is a target. But these coves
aren’t a patch on the old bullockies for
leather-swinging. Doubtful, too, if any
of their thongs would see half the dis-
tance of old Ned’s bullock-whip. Used to
wonder, in my novice days, at the length
of handle on Ned’s weapon —a handle as
long as the rangy bloke himself—but
realise now it was to give the great lash
clearance. Working his team, Ned walked
back near the front of the wagon. And
he drove the bullocks (mostly) with a
sing-song “Oosh, Oosh, Yah, Oosh,” not
unmusical coming down the breeze, and
mingling, as it neared, with the creak of
the wagon. How Ned spotted the slacker
from that position I never knew, but his
great voice would bellow a name, repeat
it with a little colorful description, then
would come the whip. Round it curled,
to snake out slowly, then a ripple would
run the length of the thong and descend
on a beast near the front of the long
team. The whip never seemed to land on
the wrong animal, and, with bovine be-
havior restored, Ned’s rhythmic “Oosh,
Oosh, Yah, Oosh” was resumed, to grow
slowly fainter until finally it faded out
among the gums,
* * * *
“Zake”: He came into the store of
the small cow-cocky township and asked
to see “some boots, size eight, somethin’
like these, but a bit lighter”—and he brent
the knee of his right leg to let the store-
keeper see the bottom of the hobnailed
boot he was wearing. The storekeeper
trotted out a pair. “These are a bit
lighter than those y’re wearin’, Sid,” he
said, “yet they’re strong and’ll stand up
to a lot o’ hard wear.” Sid inspected
the hobnailed trilbies. “I don’t want ’em
with the full iron heelplate like those,”
he said. “Just the plain heel —the iron’ll
make too much noise. And give us a
tin o’ soft soap. I want to break ’em in
for Saturd’y. Y’ see, I don’t want ’em
to squeak goin’ up the aisle —I’m best
man for me brother Ten’s weddin’.”
* * * *
“Sackville St.”: Although I have
known several feline snake-killers, I have
never been lucky enough to see the fight
(B. 24/8/’49). But I once saw a battle
between a mongoose and a hooded cobra
—screened by a globe-trotting friend who
had recorded the scrap with a movie-
camera. Head outstretched, the mon-
goose moved in to the hideous reptile,
which, hood spread, weaved in slow,
menacing rhythm—as a man might sway
his hand and forearm. Suddenly the
snake struck. His judgment of distance
was perfect. But so was the judgment of
the mongoose. A swift back-move took
the little animal three inches out of range
—just as the vicious head reached the
spot he had covered. Sidling, the ferret-
like creature feinted another attack.
Again, inches separated him from seem-
ing death. The beady eyes followed him
malignantly as he worked a little to the
right, paused, then darted his neck for-
ward in another balk. Like a cracking
whip the cobra’s head shot out. The
furry-tailed animal was quicker. I
counted seven futile strikes by the reptile;
and after each one the mongoose crept in
a little closer —yet was still able to slip
back out of range. By that time you
could almost think with the snake;:
“He’ll get too game; I won’t strike again
—until ...” The mongoose feinted
suddenly. Instinctively the cobra’s ugly
head shot forward, to stop abruptly.
Immediately another balk followed. The
snake went to strike, hesitated —and was
lost. But not hopelessly. Even as the
vicious teeth were driving into the back
of his scaly neck the snake was firing his
second barrel. A thick coil writhed up,
formed a hitch, and began to constrict
around the lithe, furry body. The animal
was caught! No, he wasn’t: at the last
instant he had slipped out of the toils.
And at that point the film ran out. I
had to take the word of the eyewitness
that the mongoose won on a k. 0., his
teeth still retaining their grip as he
wriggled his body out of nearly a dozen
reptilian snares.
INLAND.
West wind, salt wind,
Swoop across the sea,
Stride down the dunelands,
Bring the sea to me!
Strong smell, tar smell
Of dark fishing net,
Corks a-bob, boats a-row,
Brown hands sea-wet.
Sing through the parklands
Where the grass grows lush
And moon paints the housetops
With her silver brush.
Oh, I would walk the bay’s curve
While waves lapped my feet,
Shells for the gathering,
Pearl, pink-lined and sweet;
Cowries, like a pinafore,
Brown-striped and neat.
Sun-kissed, wind-swept,
Pass each golden day,
And, lulled by the sea-sound,
Sleep long nights
West wind, salt wind,
Swoop across the sea
Where the tall hills hump
Bring the sea to me!
N.S.W.
JOAN TIMMS.


pliililliil
dsf
Scottish
as the
Tartan..
Roll your cigarettes with Four Square and enjoy the
coolness and flavour of vintage tobacco, blended with true
Scottish skill. There’s nothing to match Four Square.
Imported direct from Scotland in 2-oz. vacuum tins.
For the Cigarette Smoker
Matured Virginia Fine Cut
(Red Squares) or Curlies Fine
Cut (Purple Squares).
For the Pipe Smokef
A choice of six blends—
Virginias, Mixtures, Ripe
Brown, Curlies.
FOUR SQUARE
TOBACCOS
cHoice of stx ate mbs
MRS/ 1
* oUA * es }«
THIS
B lended tb» \
» Vttg^ la AisCS ate Voters, aTi^;\
* {O J(.n r\llpV) e | i -
Made I
V 8.1.11
jLexi xdX
-errutd
TOMATO SAUC
t*A 4#
&
<!&o
\T3
3^*
a*
&«&S
Contains no artificial colouring otf
flavouring. Hade from the best ripe
tomatoes to retain natural colour.'
CL
CL
CL
■xs
<
Established 1808 in Reign of
Qeorge 111,
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle
of Waterloo, and has em-
erged from them all with
greater strength and pres-
tige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS,
8 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
P. V. MIERS, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER, Assistant Manager
for Australia and New Zealand.
LEONARD PETXITT, Manager
for Australia and New Zealand.
“Bo”; Obviously something had bitten
Bulloak Brattan badly. The shed had
cut out, and the mob had expected
Bulloak as usual to lead the way to the
Long Blow at The Crossing, there to hand
over his cheque and, telling O’Loughlin
to apprise him when it was cut out, get
down to the business of making revelry.
Instead, Bulloak had pocketed his cheque
and announced that no more would he be
idiot enough to drink about a quarter of
his cheque and make a present of the
balance of his hard-earned dough to the
rapacious O’Loughlin. He would make
alone, and on foot, for Tarbrush, where
he had a married sister. At the Long
Blow the proprietor asked after his late
valued customer, was given the dread
tidings, and thereafter had a short but
earnest conversation with his attractive
daughter, who was up on holidays from
her city college. So it was that when
Bulloak reached the turn-off to Shooter’s
Reach he espied a damsel, her right-hand
wrapped in what might have been a gory
handkerchief, trying to tighten up with
her left-hand the bolts of the spare wheel
she had just changed on a small utility-
truck. Besides having a chivalrous streak
Bulloak had an appreciative eye for
beauty, and what could he do but offer
to drive her whence she came? The
bender lasted slightly longer than usual,
and Bulloak probably drank up to 33
per cent, of that cheque.
* * ♦ *
“Old-timer”: A good-neighbor policy
that had existed for 15 years between the
Nelsons and the Moroneys was shattered
when Nelson decided that the boundary-
fence between the two properties should
be rebuilt. Old Moroney had been there
seven years before Nelson arrived, and
even after 15 years regarded Nelson as a
newchum, and his chief, though unex-
pressed, reason for opposing the new
fence was that he hadn’t thought of it
first. Anyhow, he bucked, said the old
fence was good enough and he wouldn’t
agree to paying half the cost of a new
one. Nelson, a determined coot, and
heartily sick of drafting out boxed sheep,
brought the rabbit-inspector and the
trooper out from town, showed them the
fence, secured their opinion that it was
neither stock- nor rabbit-proof, then
wrote to Moroney notifying him of his
intention to go ahead. Moroney made no
reply. Nelson and his two sons then built
the new fence on the line of the old one,
subject to infrequent visits from Moroney,
who wore a secretive sneer on his face.
When the fence was finished Nelson
claimed on Moroney; Moroney refused
to pay. Nelson threatened the law. Then
Moroney went to the nearest Lands
Office, there hunted up old surveys and
proved to Nelson that the old fence had
been wrongly surveyed, and had stood
two feet on Nelson’s property inside the
boundary. Nelson saw his solicitor, but
that gentleman had to tell him that the
fence was actually on his own land and
“The darling! Isn't he cute?”
was therefore not a boundary-fence.
That was 14 years ago, but the Nelson-
Moroney feud still rages.
“Solitude”: “Ted Hanlon’s truck in
town?” I inquired, shoving my head
hurriedly through the bar door. Seventy-
fiver dragged his dial out of a glass.
“Ain’t seen it,” he murmured. “You
haven’t got to see the flamin’ thing,” I
snorted, as I withdrew. “What’ve you
got ears for, if you don’t know a blanky
truck when you hear one?” I located
Hanlon, delivered the mob I had to a
paddock a few miles out, then dived for
a quick ’un. Didn’t bother to hitch the
nag, and got out again to find him gone.
No sign anywhere, so I borrowed a moke
and headed for home, a couple of hours
behind Seventyfiver. I wasn’t in the
mood to face the look on his mug when
he learned I’d carelessly lost my nag, so
decided to say nothing about it, in the
hope the animal would arrive during the
night. I pulled up and walked most of
the way, planning a safe entry, and as
I neared the hut did a spot of scouting
from cover. It was just light enough to
see a figure pause near the towel-peg.
When it mooched inside the hut I allowed
a few more minutes, then trotted up
quickly, slipped the nag loose to return
to town and mooched nonchalantly in-
side. Seventyfiver was dreaming into
the coals, his back to the door. “Find
Ted?” he greeted, without turning round.
“Yes.” For five minutes he smoked on,
then; “What happened to y’r nag, Sol?”
he drawled. “An’ where’d y’ get the
stranger I heard y’ just ride in on?”
* # * *
“M.U.R.”; Another of those strange
beasts which periodically appear in the
Australian bush, to the amusement of
bushmen and the excitement of city news-
papers, has bobbed up in the old Murray.
A couple of Deniliquin citizens, prob-
ably having penetrated to the wilds of
Moama or thereabouts, returned with a
version of a black thing about 3ft. long,
with an 18in. neck almost as thick as
the rest of it, two big ears which appeared
to flop, which bobbed up in the river and
proceeded, whether up- or downstream
isn’t clear, in “a series of short leaps.”
Hm-m-m.
* * * «
“Kelms”; The view that the snare is
more humane than the steel trap (B.
3/8/’49) is held officially in England,
where, my newly-arrived cousins tell me,
it is an offence to trap for rabbits. If
caught at all they must be snared. I’m
neutral myself, believing, like “Old Bush-
man,” that the bullet is the only humane
death for the wild animal. But it’s too
humane, in my opinion, for the man who
sets a trap or a snare and fails to visit
it within a few hours.
* * ♦ ♦
“Salmon Gums”: How can you get rid
of nut-grass (B. 10/8/’49)? In Westralia
we have sour-sob, a weed that propa-
gates by seed and bulb, and which is
almost impossible to eradicate. One
orchardist swears that he was advised by
a recognised authority to cover the ground
with linoleum. He actually bought a
quantity of discarded sheet-iron from the
goldfields and laid that over the ground.
When he removed it 12 months later the
sour-sob was a trifle pale but showed
great recuperative powers. He’s wonder-
ing now how much it would cost to sift
the ground to the depth of a foot.
* * * *
“Nel-Ral”: Our old T-Ford had been
doing fine, clearing the bushes and
mounds as good as any jeep. The night’s
spotlighting had been well worth the rip
we had put in the old man’s trolley-tyre.
Anyhow, we all reckoned she ran better
on the rim. But Lizzie let us down when
we hit a black stump 40-odd miles from
home. The differential had a curve like
a boomerang in it. But there was kick
in the old girl still. We pulled her away
from the stump, turned her around and
charged back into it. It did the trick;
though the differential wasn’t quite as
straight as before, it did its job.
• *' * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: A circle of stones
about 25ft. in diameter, and what appeals
to be the figure of a man marked out in
stone, have been found a few feet under-
ground near a Westralian beach, and
treasure-hunters are recalling the Gilt
Dragon. This Dutch vessel went
aground on the coast in 1656 with the
loss of all her cargo and 118 members of
the cre\y, Of the 68 men who reached
shore, seven left in the vessel’s cockboat
and reached Batavia. They reported the
location of the wreck, and two ships
searched for it, but although one of them
arrived at the spot neither the wreck nor
the marooned men were found. That
much is well-authenticated fact. It’s also
known that the wrecked ship carried
nearly 80,000 guilders. A circle of stones
found near Geraldton in 1875 was later
suggested to be marking the spot where
the guilders were buried, assuming, con-
veniently, that they could have been
brought ashore in a storm that cost 118
lives. That circle of stones has since
been sought unsuccessfully, and has come
to be associated with the lost treasure.
It’s more likely to be connected with
some aboriginal rites.
MONDAY MORNING.
The postman picks the sunlight up
And puts it with a letter
Into the white box on the gate
With a whistle and a flutter.
The housewife hangs her washing out,
And, across the brilliant garden,
Slants the prop the peewits dot
With never a beg-your-pardon.
Mrs. Talbot, large and gay,
Takes her basket to the butcher’s,
And little John and little Kay,
With their satchels, talk of teachers.
The man who sells the bouncing fruit
Trundles his loaded barrow
Into our street of Little*Care
With its footpaths neat and narrow.
The bus goes by and sways at the bend,
Up toils Sam Shedden’s lorry,
And neighbor chats to neighbor’s friend
Of recipes and curry,
N.S.W.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM.


2*2
tb*'*
j£|D
r !
coUf^V,,
Facts you should know in the
interests of your Estate & your Dependants.
The informative booklet, “Trust Estates and Their Management,”
has been compiled to acquaint you with the facts and problems
connected with choosing your Executor and Trustee. This is a
matter which every prudent man must consider at some time. It
is a decision which vitally affects the welfare of your dependants,
and is therefore one about which every person should be fully
informed.
Write to-day for your copy of this free booklet ... or call and
discuss the matter personally with one of our Executive Officers.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS*
A. E. Bond, Chairman
F. H. Way, Vice-Chairman
Cecil H. Doyle F. W. Hixson, OJBJ.. V.D.
G. Moncrieff Barron, 0.8. E., M.B.Ch,M.,
FJIA.C3. J. R. Faviell
Manager: N. L. Shaw
Asst. Manager: C. N. P. Whittle
' Sub. Manager: S. U. White
Secretary: F. R . Garland
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. «f N.S.W. LTD.
23-25 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. N.S.W.
rr.lt.n _
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Broken Hill Proprietary
Net To
May, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1940. 979,139 7j p.c. = 861,827 117,312 4,896,682
1941. 963,279 „ „ 854,770 108,509 5,005,190
Income tax short-provided, £585,282.. 4,419,908
1942. 687,711 6i p.c. = 821,103 4,286,517
Marine insur. fund included, £631,209 4,917,726
1943. 697,791 6 p.c. = 694,251 3,540 4,821,266
1944. 728,675 5 „ „ 694,245 34,430 4,955,696
1945. 759,367 5 „ „ 694,245 65,122 5,020,818
1946. 779,292 5 „ „ 694,245 85,047 5,105,865
Profit, sale assets, £24,542 .. ..5,130,407
1947.1,221,351 7£ p.c. = 1,041,369 179,982 5,310,389
Profit, sale assets, £61,899 .. .. 5,372,288
From tax provision, £125,000 .. 5,497,288
1948.1,255,388 8J p.c. = 1,157,075 98,313 5,595,601
Profit, sale assets, £8622 .. .. 6,604,223
1949.1,236,049 8J p.c. = 1,157,075 78,974 5,683,197
The shares in this big iron and steel
organisation, of which Australia has good
reason to feel proud, possess all the
essentials of a sound industrial equity
with a future as assured as anything of
the kind can be under existing conditions.
The group contributed handsomely to our
pre-war and war-time development, and
is now essential to our recovery and
further industrial progress. Moreover,
despite post-war lifts in selling-prices,
due to the rise in costs, steel is still being
produced and sold cheaper than it can be
had from anywhere else in the world —a
fine testimony to technical and other effi-
ciency of the undertaking. Yet, four
years after war has ended, demand con-
tinues to lengthen its lead over produc-
tion. That is because the big plants at
Newcastle and Port Kembla are able to
work at only about two-thirds their total
capacity.
This is due not to any fault of the
management, but to Communist-led
miners being allowed to hold the com-
munity at ransom through sporadic pro-
duction of inadequate supplies of coal—
for every ton of steel produced nearly \\
tons coal are consumed —with calamitous
results to the whole national output, em-
ployment, income and costs. These facts
have been driven home with a vengeance
by the recent seven weeks’ coal strike,
which occurred since the close of accounts.
If national poverty is to be avoided, the
benefits granted, or to be granted, to coal-
miners and others must be paid for out
of increased production. It is up to the
Government and the tribunals it has set
up in the coal industry to see that this
is done; and no good purpose can be
served by delay. The co,, which is con-
stantly assaulting costs by improved
methods of production, not only has the
the plant needed for the purpose, but,
with an eye to Australia’s future develop-
ment, also has a large and expensive pro-
gramme of development in hand. To help
meet the cost of this 4,028,300 new £1
shares were issued at a premium of 10s.
each shortly after the close of last
accounts.
Last term output of coke at Newcastle
(589,622 tons) dropped by nearly 16 p.c.,
owing to the coal problem, and the ovens
at Kembla were similarly affected. The
consequent shrinkage in performance of
the blast and open-hearth furnaces showed
up in a contraction of 165,353 tons in
production of steel ingots (1,143,057
tons), which was also affected by a strike
at Iron Knob (the ore quarry), following
which the blast furnace at Whyalla was
blanketed and then blown-out —steel pro-
duction began at Whyalla for the first
time on March 7 last. The lower output
of ingots affected production all along
the line —in the bloom, 28in, and 18in.,
plate and other mills —and, together with
higher manufacturing and distributing
costs, due mainly to wage-lifts, was re-
flected in a sharp drop of £918,031 in
forking profit of the group. This was
partly offset by a reduction of £610,574
in provision for taxation
Consolibated Figures.
(Covering both group and outside interests.)
Gross earnings— 1947. 1948. 1949.
Working profit.. £5,868,343 £6,171,608 £5,253,477
Divs., etc. .. 253,398 886,899 390,621
Total , . £6,121,741 £6,558,407 £5,644,098
Depreciation .. 2,058,972 2,385,029 2,899,817
Taxation .. .. 2,057,550 2,047,958 1,437,384
Other exes. .. 274,406 285,010 303,055
Total exes. .. £4,390,928 £4,717,997 £4,140,256
Net profit .. 1,730,813 1,840,410 1,503,842
Profit, sale assets 32,172 64,022 14,143
If steel plants are to remain efficient and
up-to-date there is always a large expen-
diture on work of a constructional
nature; hence the heavy allowances for
depreciation, which total £20,997,118
over the last nine years—last term’s allow-
ance was 12.6 p.c. of the book-value of
fixed assets at June 30. Of the £1,503,842
(down £336,568) of profit earned,
£130,400 appears to belong to outsiders
and £1,373,442 (9.8 p.c. on B.H.P.’s
capital) to group interests. So the margin
of cover for the parent’s 8.3 p.c. div, was
wider than its own accounts alone show.
All that leaves out of the reckoning profit
on sale of assets.
Activities of the subsidiaries —they in-
clude A.I, and S., Rylands Bros., Com-
monwealth Steel, Australian Wire Rope
Works, B.H.P. By-Products and Titan Nail
and Wire —all of which have overflowing
order-books, were affected by the reduced
flow of iron and steel. All but one of the
offshoots, which made a loss of £3773,
operated at a profit. AX and S., whose
plant will soon rival the parent’s in size,
paid no ord, div. It netted £278,206
(down £140,364), which covered pref. re-
quirements (£75,000) and 4.3 p.c. on its
£4,700,000 of ord. capital, all of which is
owned by B.H.P. Given an adequate
supply of coal and labor, all other factors
essential to greatly improved eaming-
power are present here.
At the shipyards (Whyalla) construc-
tion is retarded by shortage of skilled
labor. Here, too, the prospect is one of
expanding activity, the Government hav-
ing decreed that, after 25 years’ service,
ships in the coastal trade are to be re-
placed by vessels built in Australian
yards.
How the big undertaking is financed is
seen in the next table :
Consolidated Figures.
Outside
r— B.H.P. s Shareholders’ Sundry
Capital. Reserves. Interests.* Creditors.!
1942.. £13,882,889 £6,818,493 £2,155,696 £7,094,452
1946.. 13,884,902 8,047,923 2,165,794 5,730,653
1946.. 18,884,902 7,959,126 2,159,764 5,585,567
1947.. 13,884,902 8,586,827 2,169,618 7,865,509
1948.. 13,884,902 9,420,540 2,225,514 9,234,336
1949.. 13,884,902 9,895,799 2,259,863 9,387,045
Fixed Stocks, Book Other
Assets. Stores, Ete. Debts. Assets.
1942.. £18,929,700 £5,840,173 £3,480,561 £2,548,221
1945.. 15,065,784 4,931,703 2,214,720 7,616,961
1946.. 14,370,499 5,267,098 2,088,263 7,913,394
1947.. 14,902,823 5,237,841 2,490,654 9,375,633
1948.. 16,604,210 6,595,418 2,573,660 9,022,084
1949.. 18,959,926 7,641,989 2,174,700 6,650,884
* Including proportion reserves. { Includes tax pro-
vision.
Other assets include £3,559,071 of Gov-
ernment securities.
When all the money on the new shares
is in (last payments are due August 5,
1950) paid capital will be £18,513,202,
and reserves will benefit by £2,314,150 of
share premiums, which will make divs.
on the new scrip worth only two-thirds
the declared rate. An 8.3 p.c, div. will
then call for £1,542,767, or £168,825 more
than the group’s proportion of last term’s
reduced net earnings. The new money
is to be used for further expansion of the
big Kembla works, erection of a new
1.000. tinplate and auxi-
liary plants, construction of more ore-
carrying vessels and continued mechanisa-
tion of collieries, including the recently-
purchased Stockton Borehole on the
northern N. S. Wales field.
After fluctuating widely in the market,
the price of the pound shares recently
strengthened from 41s, 9d. to 455. 9d.
At the higher figure the return on an
8.3 p.c. div. basis is 3.6 p.c., with
prospects. The contribs. at 225. 10d. will
cost 425. lOd. when fully paid. Including
the new issue, net tangible cover (book-
value) is 28s. Bd.
Mercantile Mutual Insurance Co.
Added Capital
to Re- and Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1942.. 63,111 9 p.c. = 36,000]
Provident fund, £7OOO f 15,111 741,880
Written off premises, £5OOO j
1943.. 65,666 9 p.c. = 36,000 ]
Provident fund, £6OOO \ 18,666 760,546
Written off premises, £5OOO J
1944.. 64,558 9 p.c. = 86,000]
Provident fund, £6OOO f 17,558 778,104
Written off premises, £5OOO J
1945.. 67,855 9 p.c. = 86,000]
Provident fund, £6OOO f 20,855 798,959
Written off premises, £5OOO J
1946.. 69,640 9 p.c. = 36,000]
Provident fund, £6OOO [ 17,640 816,599
Written off premises, £lO,OOO J
1947.. 66,079 10 p.c. = 40,000 ] 20 079 836 678
Provident fund, £6OOO .. f 20,079 836,678
1948.. 101,541 12 p.c. = 48,000 1 .. ...
Provident fund, £6OOO .. \ 47 > 541 884 ’ 219
From tax reserve, £15,000] aRO aan naa
1949.. 136,869 12*p.c.= 50,000.. j 101 ’ 869 986,088
* Including reserves for unexpired risks.
The 71-year-old Mercantile, whose under-
writing activities are confined mainly to
the Commonwealth, has put on a lot of
weight since war ended. This is due
partly to the co.’s high reputation, and
largely to the quick rise in insurable
values, growth of home and other build-
ing, expansion of trade inventories, full
employment and increased number of
motor-vehicles on the roads. A more
favorable loss experience and continued
tight hold upon controllable outgoings
have also helped to push net results.
Last term gross premium income shot
up by £222,514, reaching £1,327,216, of
which 49,7 p.c. (£669,387) was paid out
in reinsurance, leaving net premium in-
come £121,093 stronger at £657,827:
Ret Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, peases. Rate. Rate.
£ £ £
1940.. 306,541 184,981 187,110 44,0 p.c. 44.7 p.c.
1942.. 322,944 124,645 160,200 38.5 „ 49.6 „
1943.. 335,412 122,985 166,738 36.4 „ 49.7 „
1944.. 355,367 160,963 t 152,689 45.3 „ 43.0 „
1945.. 849,731 153,486 152,808 43.9 „ 43.7 „
1946.. 378,891 158,588 175,886 41.8 „ 46.4 „
1947.. 443,414 205,996 196,965 46.4 „ 44.4 „
1948.. 536,734 229,615 231,710 42.8 „ 43.1 „
1949.. 657,827 272,576 279,027 41.4 „ 42.4 „
t Includes fire-brigade charges previously treated
as exes.
Other pleasing features are that the year’s
bigger business was handled at 14s. p.c.
less cost, and the loss ratio was 28s. p.c.
lighter, despite unprofitable third-party
risks and heavier claims under workers’-
compensation and motor-vehicle con-
tracts.
The gross underwriting surplus was
£106,224 (up £30,815), and interest and
rents brought in £30,645 (up £4513) net,
making total profit from all sources
£136,869 (up £32,328). That was before
allowing for unexpired risks, which on
the usually accepted basis of 40 p.c. of
net premiums would reduce the under-
writing profit to £56,986, and net profit
from all sources to £87,631 (up £22,528),
or 21.9 p.c. on capital as against 16.2, 10
and 14.5 p.c. for the three preceding years.
That leaves out of the figuring £15,000
tossed into general reserves from previous
excess tax provisions. So the addition of
half a point to the div., making it 12J
p.c., best for nearly 30 years, was a com-
fortable matter. On capital (£400,000)
and reserves (£586,088) combined, the
£87,631 of profit was only 8.8 p.c.
The next table shows the strength of
the protection for both policyholders and
shareholders:
1939. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital.. £400,000 £400,000 £400,000 £400,000
Sundry creditors 215,000 456,753 549,473 650,645
Tax reserve .. 18,000 66,225 56,000 77,000
Freeholds, etc. 485,384 454,249 458,555 463,882
Mortgages .. 14,745 24,689 28,810 28,166
Govt, securities,
etc. .. 364,149 791,521 854,825 1,055,061
Book debts .. 68,212 75,728 107,662 134,565
Cash, etc. .. 23,479 66,242 73,840 67,959
The year’s growth of £101,072 in sundry
creditors was mainly in respect of pro-
vision for outstanding claims, etc.
(£556,334, up £91,479). The additions of
£145,199 to Government securities
(£730,272), of £51,287 to holdings of in-
dustrial scrip (£108,489) and of £3750 to
debentures and fixed deposits (£216,300)
augur well for continued improvement in
the return from investments.
The market, which likes the co.’s pros-
pects, notes the wide margin between
earnings and distributions and prices the
pound shares paid to 16s. each at 565.
(495. a year ago), giving a return of 3.6
p.c. on a 12i p.c. distribution. Net
tangible cover is 395. 4d. a share.
Millaquin Sugar Co. (Q.)
To Re—
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1940.. 65,420 11 p.c. = 55,000 10,420 347,303
1941.. 62,168 11 „ „ 55,000 7,168 354,471
1942.. 63,162 11 „ „ 55,000 8,162 362,633
1943.. 60,144 11 „ „ 55,000 5,144 367,777
1944.. 61,96* 11 „ „ 55,000 6,964 874,741
1945.. 72,562 11 „ „ 55,000 17,564 392,303
1946.. 56,184 11 „ „ 65,000 1,184 398,487
1947.. 23,584 11 „ „ 55,000 362,071
From inner reserves, £33,985 ~ 396,056
1948.. 84,844 11 p.c. = 55,000 29,444 425,600
1949.. 104,638 13 „ „ 65,000 89,638 466,138
A bumper season —best in the history of
the Australian sugar industry—and record
crushing of cane and output of raws sent
net earnings of this well-handled Bunda-
beg grower, miller and refiner to the
highest level yet. The co.’s two nulls
crushed 363,938 tons —148,900 tons more
than for the previous term and 81,600
tons above the best pre-war figure—for
47,534 tons raws. The refinery worked
to capacity, and the subsidiary, Bunda-
berg Distillery (in the books at £64,951,
or 60 p.c, face value), “continued to
prosper,” The high price of £2B 2s. a
ton received for raws exported to U.K.
(about half total output) also contributed
to the better showing. Pre-war exports
averaged around £lO a ton. The home
consumption price was £23 Is. a ton, and
the over-all average price to millers and
growers £24 17s. a ton, approximately
the same as for the previous season.
So, despite higher handling and other
charges, bumped up by the 40-hour week,
increased price of materials, etc., and
wage lifts aggregating 27 p.c,, the cautious
board was able to write net earnings
£19,794 stronger at , £104,638, equal to
20.9 p.c. on capital as against 16.9, 4.7,
11.2, 14.5, 12.3 and 12 p.c. back to 1943.
The div. was lifted from 7 p.c. to 8 p.c.,
and a 5 p.c. bonus (4 p.c. previously) was
added, making 13 p.c. for the year. For
the preceding 11 years the distribution
was steady at 11 p.c.
Prospects of another good showing at
next balance are encouraging, thanks to
a favorable seasonal outlook and un-
changed British bulk - buying price
(£S27 ss. a ton) for raws. Imperial prefer-
ence on sugar has been extended, and
Britain has agreed to take Australia’s ex-
portable surplus of raws until August,
1952, the price (trend is downward) being
subject to annual adjustment. The co.’s
own mill peak has been lifted from
29,000 tons to 35,300 tons, which means
a slightly better price for the difference.
But high and rising costs, which will
bite deeper into the takings of less
bounteous seasons, have forced growers
and millers to ask for a further increase
in the home-consumption price of sugar,
Millaquin plans to assault the costs
problem by reorganisation and modern-
isation of its mills at an estimated cost
of about £250,000 ; and it has the money
to finance the work:
1939. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital.. £500,000 £500,000 £500,000 £500,000
Creditors* .. 104,617 218,041 263,981 419,207
Freeholds, re-
finery, etc. 329,360 301,901 291,932 301,629
Plantations, etc. 58,181 39,365 40,184 44,170
Railways, etc. 32,542 33,914 37,197 36,031
Stocks .. 89,143 131,559 103,232 141,641
Book debts . . 10,085 12,962 67,552 61,192
Investments .. 896,56 2 5 64,42 9 574,429 587,079
Cash .. .. 63,127 33,483 112,405 267,603
* Including taxation.
Investments include £509,102 of Com-
monwealth bonds.
The pound shares, which have always
been popular on the market, are priced
at 555. (51s. early in 1949), giving a re-
turn of 4.7 p.c. on a 13 p.c. distribution,
or 4 p.c. should the rate drop to 11 p.c.
again. Visibly the cover is 38s. 7d. in net
tangibles.


IMPORTANT AUCTION SALE
PERTH
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
CITY PROPERTY
HAY ST., between KING and MILUGAN STS.
At Builders’ Exchange, 66 St. George’s Terrace, Perth,
3 p.m. THURSDAY, 15th SEPTEMBER, 1949.
3 Brick Shops and Commodious Workshop at Rear.
LAND. Frontage 75.2 links. Depth 283 Iks. Ptn Perth Town Lot
H 4 Being Lot 2 Dia. 2278 C/Ts 1117/36, 1117/37.
Particulars and Conditions of Sale may be inspected at Offices of
AUCTIONEERS:
McLEAN CARMICHAEL KEMPE PTY. LTD.,
89 ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE, PERTH, W.A.
or Solicitors for Vendors:
MESSRS. DWIEB & THOMAS, 49 William St., Perth, W.A.
fs
FONDE
&
EN 1724
RE MY MARTIN
V.S.O.P. COGNAC BRANDY
Of rare age and vintage quality seldom
before, if ever, imported into Aus-
tralia. Obtainable at most retailers.
Commonwealth Bank of Australia
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET, as at 30th June, 1949
LIABILITIES. £
Cbntrax, Banking Business—
Capital .. .. .. 4,000,000
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,180,786
General Banking Division—
Capital 4,000,000
Reserve Fond .. 730,836
Rural Credits Department—
Capital 2,000,000
Reserve Fund .. .. 516,886
Mortgage Bank Department—
Capital 3,161,176
Reserve Fund .. .. 120,679
Industrial Finance Department—
Capital 4,000,000
Reserve Fund .. .. 252,135
Special Reserve—Premium
on gold sold
Rotes on Issue ..
Deposits—
Special accounts of trad-
ing banks
Other deposits of trading
banks
Other deposits, bills pay-
able and other liabilities
(Including provision for
contingencies) ..
19,980,477
4,754,954
212,813,333
367,520,000
20,716,674
286,392,830
Total.. .. £912,178,268
ASSETS.
Gold and balances held
abroad (Including money
at short call)
Australian notes and coin
Cheques and bills of other
banks
Commonwealth Govern-
ment Securities (Including
Commonwealth Treasury
Bills)
Securities of other Govern-
ments, and of local
and seml-governmental
authorities
Bills receivable and remit-
tances in transit
Bank premises ..
loans, advances, etc. (after
deducting provision for
debts considered bad or
doubtful): —
Central Bank
General Banking Division
Rural Credits Departihent
Mortgage Bank Depart-
ment
Industrial Finance Depart-
ment
Other assets
Totai
£
393,734,191
7,811,336
8,803,251
332,918,316
35,927,091
18,366,536
1,017,764
50,244,262
38,302,498
2,854,779
3,408,128
15,727,175
3,062,941
£912,178,268
Note.—lnter-departmental accounts totalling £8,084,177 have been offset.
Dt. PROFIT AND LOSS FOR YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1949. Ct.
£
Ckntrai. Banking Business—
To National Debt Sinking
Fund 487,578
To Commonwealth Bank
Reserve Fund .. .. 243,789
To Mortgage Bank Depart-
ment Capital Account .. 243,789
Note Issue Department—
To Mortgage Bank Depart-
ment Capital Account .. 150,000
To Commonwealth Treas-
ury .. .. .. 4,459,903
Genera! Banking Division —
To National Debt Sinking
Fund 209,293
To General Banking Div-
ision Reserve Fund .. 209,294
Rubai Credits Department—
To Rural Credits Depart-
ment Reserve Fund .. 19,896
To Rural Credits Develop-
ment Fund .. .. 19,396
Mortgage Bank Department—
To Mortgage Bank Depart-
ment Reserve Fund .. 86,307
INDUSTRIA! FINANCE DE-
PARTMENT —
To Industrial Finance
Dept. Reserve Fund .. • 165,453
TOTA!.. .. £6,244,198
By Profits for year ended
30th June, 1949 (after
making provision for con-
tingencies)—
Central Banking Business
Note Issue Department..
General Banking Division
Rural Credits Department
Mortgage Bank Depart-
ment
Industrial Finance De-
partment .* ••
£
975,156
4,609,903
418,587
38,792
36,307
165,453
Total .. .. £6,244,198
We certify that the above Balance Sheet, compiled from Statements furnished by
the several Offices of the Bank, Is true and correct,
(Sad.) L. A. McWATTEES, Secretary. (Sgd.) H. C. COOMBS, Governor
(Sgd.) W. P. ESKDALE, Acting Chief Accountant. Sydney, 10th August, 1949
Commonwealth Savings Bank of Australia
BALANCE SHEET, as at 30lh June, 1949
LIABILITIES.
Reserve Fund
Depositors’ Balances and
Accrued Interest
Other liabilities (including
provision for contingen-
cies M • •
£
5,862,507
448,995,398
13,839,189
ASSETS. £
Australian Notes and Coin 501,096
Cash Balances and Money
at Short Call .. .. 45,576,238
Commonwealth Government
Securities (including Com-
monwealth Treasury Bills) 375,764,595
Securities of other Govern-
ments and of Local and
Semi-governmental auth-
orities .. .. .. 31,268,813
Bank Premises .. .. 783,969
Other Assets .. .. 14,802,383
TOTAL .. .. £468,697,094
TOTAI .. .. £468,697,094
Dr. PEOFIT AND LOSS FOE YEAE ENDED 30th JUNE, 1949. Cr.
To National Debt Sinking
Fund
To Savings Bank Reserve
Fund ..
£
418.959
418.960
Total
.. £837,919
By Profits for year ended
30th June, 1949, after
provision for payments
amounting to £60,0,660
due to State Authorities
under Savings Bank
Amalgamation Agree-
ments (and after making
provision for contingencies) 837,919
TOTAL .. .. £837,919
We certify that the above Balance Sheet, compiled from Statements furnished by
the several Offices of the Bank, is true and correct.
(Sgd.) L. A. MoWATTBBS, Secretary. (Sgd.) H. C. COOMBS, Governor.
(Sgd.) W. P. ESKDALE, Acting Chief Accountant. SYDNEY, 10th August, 1949
Certificates as to the correctness of these Accounts have been givqn by the
Auditor-General for the Commonwealth (Mr, A, C. Joyce).
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone: MX 2208.
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
THE AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
Filter
Cylinder
fsd
fs
TO
GUTHRIDGE
PTY., LIMITED,
10-12 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
• J-*
The requirements of Section IS7 of the Companies Act of Now South
Wales have not been fully compiled with in this advertisement. The
full ;prospectus Is dated the 26th day of August, 1949, and a copy
has been filed with the Registrar General of New South Wales who
takos no responsibility as to its contents.
“TROTH” and
“SPORTSMAN”
Limited
(Incorporated In the State of New South Wales)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £1,000,000
ISSUED CAPITAL: £BOO,OOO
ISSUED AT PAR (£100) OF £600,000
PER 4i CENT
MORTGAGE DEBENTURES
CURRENCY; 12-15 YEARS
Secured by First Mortgage upon certain Freehold Properties,
by Second Mortgage on certain other Freehold Properties, and
First Floating Charge upon all other Assets and Undertaking
of the Company, subject to the conditions set out in the Trust
Deed.
DIRECTORS:
EZRA NORTON, “Carmel,” Albert Street, Woollahra, Sydney.
Chairman and Managing Director.
HERMAN FAWL, “Waratah House,” Bayswater Road, Darling-
hurst, Sydney. Solicitor.
RUSSELL STUART HICKS, 1 Arthur Street, Bellevue Hill,
Sydney. Solicitor.
MARK EDWARD GALLARD, Inkerman Road, Ryde, Sydney.
Editor.
JOHN WILLIAM GALLERY, Brentwood Avenue, Turramurra
(Alternate Director for Mr. Ezra Norton), Acting Managing
Director.
REGISTERED OFFICE:
Hosking House, Hosking Place, 845 Pitt Street, Sydney.
TRUSTEE FOR THE DEBENTURE-HOLDERS:
The Union Trustee Company of Australia Limited,
2 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
BANKERS FOR ISSUE:
Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited.
OBJECTS OF THE ISSUE.
The main purpose is to repay Bank overdraft while balance
will be applied towards financing amount outstanding for plant
and building extensions and as working capital.
DESCRIPTION OF THE BUSINESS.
The Company publishes the weekly newspaper, Truth ,
with sales of over 800,000 in all States; the “Daily Mirror . after-
noon newspaper in Sydney, with certified net circulation of
over 328,000 copies per day; and the “Sportsman”, weekly news-
paper in Sydney, selling over 48,000 copies per issue.
The Company, in addition, has an extensive book publish-
ing business, and has large job-printing and process-engraving
businesses in Sydney, Melbourne, and Brisbane, all working to
full capacity and contributing substantially to the Company s
profits.
COVER FOR PRINCIPAL AND INTEREST.
The tangible Assets backing as at 30th June, 1949, for the
Debentures of the Issue was equivalent to £312/0/4 for each
£lOO Debenture, while the adjusted average annual net profit
for the five years ended 30th June, 1949, covered the annual
interest charge on the Issue 4.23 times.
Applications must be lodged with the Banker for the Issue,
Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited, at any of its
offices in Australia.
Payable either in Pull on application or 10 per cent, deposit
on application and the balance in three equal monthly instal-
ments.
Subscription to the Issue will be accepted Free of Exchange
in Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth and Hobart.
Interest payable and principal repayable Free of Exchange
in Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth and Hobart.
Copies of the full prospectus and Forms of Application may
be obtained from the Banker for the Issue or any member of
a recognised Stock Exchange in Australia.
Applications for Debentures will be received only on one of
the Forms of Application referred to in and accompanying the
Prospectus.
Applications will be received by the Banker for the Issue
dailv up to three o’clock p.m. on Monday, 19th September, 1949.
but the Directors reserve the right to close the Issue at any
earlier date, without notice, in the event of the full amount of
the Issue then having been fully subscribed.
UNDERWRITERS:
J. B. WERE & SON
Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
Capel Court,
375 Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
M.L.C. Building,
44 Martin Place,
Sydney, N.S.W.
(By whom the whole of the above Issue of £600,000 4Vi per cent. Mortgage
Debentures has been underwritten).
ISSUE NOW OPEN
Peko Gold Mines
Peko (Tennant Creek) Gold
Mines, NX., has just been
launched in Sydney with a
nominal capital of £lOO,OOO in
2s. 6d. shares. The vendor, J. S.
Higgins, takes 200,000 paids, but
no cash, for his option over the
Peko lease, about seven miles
east of Tennant Creek township,
and 600,000 contribs., under-
written by G. D. Wharton at 2d.
each (=£5000), have been
offered and oversubscribed.
The idea is work and develop
the Peko mine, on which £28,000
is said to have been spent for the
recovery of 3046 tons ore,
averaging 16.5dwt., since 1934,
when the lease was pegged. To
the 210 ft. (bottom) level Mr.
Higgins reckons there is still
19,370 tons positive ore, averag-
ing 16.37dwt., and the lodes
continue underfoot. The ore is
free-milling, and satisfactory re-
coveries have been obtained by
cyanidation. Water suitable for
milling purposes comes in at
180 ft. in the main shaft.
The magnet is the possibility
of developing more pay-ore—
about lOdwt. or better in this
area —on and below the 210 ft.
level. Government magnetic
prospecting and drilling in
1936-37 indicated a large deposit
of ironstone beneath and north
of the Peko ore - body. The
drill, which met with a
patch of high-grade sludge above
water-level, showed the iron-.
stone from 240 ft. to 271 ft. to be
very hard, with traces of gold
and narrow veins of native
copper.
In its present stage the
Peko is a prospect, the possi-
bilities of which depend upon
what further development
proves. Goldmining at Tennant
Creek is more of a gamble than
on most other fields, because the
ore-bodies are irregular in shape
and do not lend themselves to
the conventional method of
block-out, gold distribution is
patchy, and the average grade of
ore in situ can be estimated only
within wide limits.
On the board are A. S. P.
Sangster, J. S. Higgins and G. D.
Wharton.
Unless a lot of additional pay-
ore is developed in the Birthday
Gift and other leases taken or
pegged in the Burbanks area,
prospects for shareholders in
New Coolgardie, Hampton
Plains (W.A.), don’t look par-
ticularly bright at the moment.
The Surprise shaft has been sunk
a further 125 ft. to a depth of
325 ft. The 20-head of stamps,
ball - mill, cyaniding plant,
crusher, etc., bought from
Phoenix Mines Pty. for £25,000,
began work March 22 last. Ore
reserves at the Surprise and
Barbara were originally put at
76,000 tons, averaging 13.8dwt,
Mining and milling costs are
now 775. 9d. a ton, but are ex-
pected to drop to 655. a ton
when throughput touches 3000
tons a month. Work on the
Birthday Gift, which has been
unwatered, has been suspended
until the Surprise gets into its
stride. The co.’s f.-p. 10s. shares
fetch 11s. 6d. on the market.


Abridged Prospectus
OF AN ISSUE AT PAR OF
150,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each
(Payable in full 20/- per share on Application)
by G. N. RAYMOND LIMITED
( Incorporated under the Companies Act of the State of Victoria.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £1,000,000
SHARES ISSUED TO VENDORS:
296,500 Ordinary Shares of £1 each fully paid .. ..£296,500
DIRECTORS’ QUALIFICATION SHARES:
3,500 Ordinary Shares of £1 each (subscribed for in cash) 3,500
SHARES NOW OFFERED FOR SUBSCRIPTION;
120,000 Shares reserved for allotment to nominees of the Underwriters, Messrs. .T. B.
Were & Son 120,000
30,000 Shares available for application by the public generally 30,000
450,000
DIRECTORS:
£450,000
GEORGE NELSON RAYMOND, 2 Myambert
Avenue, Balwyn, Company Director (Chair-
man and Managing Director).
REGINALD ALBERT RAYMOND, 1 Warringal
Place, Heidelberg, Company Director.
WILLIAM ALPHONZO RAYMOND, Cam
Street, Ivanhoe, Company Director.
REGINALD NELSON RAYMOND, 6 Easey
Street, Collingwood, N. 5, Company Director.
JOHN RICHARD GRAY, 6 Waldemar Road,
Ivanhoe, Factory Manager.
ROBERT GEORGE ROWLAND BALL, 430
Little Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l,
Solicitor.
JOHN KENNETH LITTLE, 83 William Street,
Melbourne, C.l, Chartered Accountant
(Aust.).
SECRETARY & REGISTERED OFFICE: K. J. Anderson, 6 Easey St., Collingwood, Melbourne, N. 5.
BANKERS: The Union Bank of Australia Limited.
SOLICITORS TO THE COMPANY: Henderson & Ball, 430 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
CONSULTING SOLICITORS FOB THE ISSUE: Whiting & Byrne, 101 William St., Melbourne, C.l.
AUDITOR: Frederick Leopold Smyth, of F. L. Smyth & Co., Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
140 Queen Street, Melbourne, C.l.
INVESTIGATING ACCOUNTANTS FOB THE ISSUE: Fuller, King & Co., Chartered Accountants
(Aust.), S 3 William Street, Melbourne, C.l.
OBJECTS OF THE ISSUE:
G. N. Raymond limited was registered as a
public company in Victoria on 9th May, 1949,
to acquire the manufacturing and trading
assets of G. N. Raymond Pty. Ltd., an old-
established organisation operating large fac-
tories in Victoria for the manufacture of a wide
range of components for the footwear industry
as well as cardboard boxes and cartons and
casein plastics. The company also owns 18,000
fully-paid £1 shares of a total issued capital of
£24,000 of G. N. Raymond (N.Z.) Limited.
Under the Sale Agreement the vendors,
Corben Investments Pty. Ltd., will receive as
consideration for the transfer of assets to G. N.
Raymond Limited a total of £450,000, payable
as to £296,500 in the form of 296,500 ordinary
shares of £1 each, fully paid, and £153,500 in
cash, to be provided by the present public
issue at par of 150,000 ordinary shares of £1
each, plus 3500 ordinary shares subscribed
for in cash as Directors’ Qualification Shares.
The distribution of shares to the public
should enable the company to qualify for assess-
ment for taxation as a public company.
Assets Position: The valuation of the net
assets acquired by G. N. Raymond Limited in
exchange for £450,000 in cash and shares is
stated at £513,060 in the Report of the Investi-
gating Accountants for the Issue, Messrs. Puller,
King & Co., Chartered Accountants (Aust.). On
completion of the Issue, reserves and undivided
profits of G. N. Raymond Limited will thus
amount to £63,060 in support of paid-up capital
of £450,000.
Allowing for preliminary expenses, estimated
at £12,000 and patents valued at £650, net tan-
gible assets of the Company and its New Zea-
land subsidiary will amount to £500,410, equal
to £l/2/3 for each ordinary share of £1 fully
paid.
Earnings: As shown by the Report of the In-
vestigating Accountants, Messrs. Puller, King
& Co., Chartered Accountants (Aust.), included
in the full Prospectus, adjusted net earnings
from trading and manufacturing activities for
the year ended 31st December, 1948, after full
provision for taxation at public company rates,
amounted to £45,100, equal to 10.02 per dent, on
the issued and paid-up capital of £450,000 after
the current issue. Average profits, similarly
adjusted, for the five years ended 31st December,
1948, amounted to £39,809, equal to 8.85 per cent,
per annum on capital after the new issue.
Dividends: It is anticipated that a dividend
at the rate of 6 per cent, per annum will be
payable in respect of the current financial year,
ending 31st December, 1949. Shares of the
curuent issue will be entitled to participate in
any such dividend as from the date of allotment
of the shares.
Applications now open. Applications for the
30,000 shares available for public subscription
must be lodged with the Secretary, G. N. Ray-
mond Limited, 6 Easey Street, Collingwood,
N. 5, and may be made through a member of any
recognised Stock Exchange in Australia for
lodging with the Company.
All applications (accompanied by a remit-
tance of 20/- per share on the number of shares
applied for) must be lodged on the Application
Form accompanying the full Prospectus, copies
of which may be obtained from Members of the
Stock Exchange of Melbourne, the Sydney Stock
Exchange or the Adelaide Stock Exchange.
Cheques and drafts drawn on banks in Mel-
bourne, Sydney and Adelaide will be accepted
free of exchange.
Application Lists open on Monday, sth Sep-
tember, 1949, and will be closed not later than
Friday, 14th October, 1949, but the Directors
reserve the right to close the issue at any earlier
date if previously fully subscribed.
Allotments will be made as early as prac-
ticable after the closing of the Issue and will
proceed only in respect of applications made
upon the form accompanying the Prospectus.
Minimum Subscription: The minimum amount
which may be raised by the Issue is £150,000.
Underwriters: J. B. Were & Son, Members of
the Stock Exchange of Melbourne, 375 Collins
Street, Melbourne, and 44 Martin Place, Sydney,
by whom the whole of the Issue of 150,000
Ordinary Shares of £1 each has been under-
written. The Underwriters have exercised their
right to the firm allotment of 120,000 shares,
leaving 30,000 shares available for application by
and allotment to the public generally.
Stock Exchange Listing; Application will be
made for the listing of the shares for official
quotation on the Stock Exchanges in Melbourne,
Sydney and Adelaide.
r The requirements of Section 187 of the New South Wales Companies Act relating to
Prospectuses have not been fully complied with in this Abridged Prospectus. Copy of the full
J Prospectus dated 29th August, 1949, has been filed with the Registrar-General of the State of
1 New South Wales, who takes no responsibility for its contents. Applications for shares will
j be received only upon one of the forms of application referred to in and aamexed to a printed
L copy of the full Prospectus.
Office Space Wanted.
N.S.W. RUGBY UNION desires rent office
space sufficient for three offices and meet-
ing-room. Reply Secretary, 10-12 Spring
Street, Sydney.
iMvim
17-jewelied Swiss
Masterpieces
with
NON-MAGNETIC ESCAPEMENT
lAvtm
WATCHES
Founded in 1852-VlU»r*i, S«i<n
Rupture
Sufferers—try the new Roussel Free.
Enables you to do hard work with
comfort and security. Definitely
holds, a condition absolutely necessary
for improvement.
Recommended by doctors and thou-
sands of satisfied users. Satisfaction
guaranteed, no matter where you live.
mnt 1 Cali or st 3 ™? * or
r KLL FREE details, self-measure-
ment form and Ik days’ free trial
offer. No obligation.
The Roussel Appliance Co.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place. Sydney.
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT RUBRIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from til© rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
G. A. PISHEB, 8.A., B.Sc,
Headmaster.
Business, Rollery, Etc
Company Profits
Company earnings generally,
in relation to the funds invested
by shareholders and reserves
left in the business, averaged
7.8 p.c. in 1948, compared with
5.9 p.c. in 1943 and 6.8 p.c. in
1939. It is only since about the
middle of 1946 that company
earnings, expressed in money,
have gone beyond the level
established in 1939. The 1948
average was about one-seventh
higher than that for 1939, the
first year of the war. Basic-wage
rates in the same time have
risen by nearly three-fifths of
their pre-war size. The share-
holder has thus not advanced
his apparent economic position
to the same extent as the wage-
earner. Or, put in more correct
language, the shareholder has
not been able to cope with
monetary depreciation to the
same extent as the wage-earner.
By reason of price-control,
heavy taxation and other post-
war Socialistic measures the in-
vestor has been harshly treated
by comparison with others in
the community.
It is the hope that he will
eventually participate more
equitably in the inflated national
income that helps to maintain a
fairly strong market for indus-
trial shares. Another factor in
market support is the quantity
of idle money that is lying
around awaiting expenditure
on homes, factories and other
durable goods. But, with the
nation facing a fall in its ex-
port income this year (follow-
ing a record export season in
1948-49), the peak of post-war
share prices has been left be-
hind for the present, and it is
doubtful whether, in 1949-50, in-
dustry generally will have earn-
ings to show as high as for
1948-49.
The coal strike struck a heavy
blow against earnings during the
first two months of the new fis-
cal year, and chief hopes for
maintained earnings now rest in
the possibility of daily coal out-
put rising over the next nine or
10 months as a result of chasten-
ing effects of the strike on the
miners themselves. So far the
indications are not very en-
couraging. Industry is still run-
ning without adequate coal re-
serves.
If adequate coal supplies do
become available there are pros-
pects of great industrial activity
ahead —activity that, in a num-
ber of industries, could largely
offset the fall in overseas prices
for raw materials. Without
more coal and a healthy revival
in our basic secondary indus-
tries the industrial and com-
mercial prospect for the present
year is one of tighter trading
and higher costs. The upward
momentum of wages that chase
costs, and vice versa, is a very
hard thing to check when a re-
cession starts. Profits —and,
normally, employment—suffer as
a result.
Oil Rumors
“Lemon”: Despite the state-
ment by the Australasian
Petroleum Co.’s manager that
the news of any worth-while
strike of oil would be published
immediately (B. 3/8/’49), un-
confirmed rumors from the
Port Moresby furphy factory,
which is now operating with an
improved timing technique, still
gain credence from a section of
the investing public. The latest
effusion from the Port was
rather guarded and declared
that unspecified “favorable de-
velopments” had occurred at the
Hohoro bore. This, however,
was sufficient to cause an up-
ward movement in Oil Search
scrip, with the sale of over
10,000 shares.
The A.P. Co. forthwith issued
a statement in Melbourne on
27/8/’49 discounting any undue
optimism ; but the release of the
rumor had been so well timed
that the official news did not
reach the Press for publication
before ’Change closed for the
week-end.
On the same day Papuan
Apinaipi Petroleum jumped
from 4s. to ss. with demand un-
satisfied.
The Hohoro drilling is about
90 air-miles n.-w, from the
P.A.P. permit, and is known to
be separated from it, geologi-
cally, by several major struc-
tural breaks. In addition, reports
issued to the Press by P.A.P. in
1938 and 1939 stated that oil-
shows were encountered both
in the “wild-cat” drilling in the
Jokea-Apinaipi area and, later,
in the “slim-hole” drilling
carried out on the Oiapu struc-
ture under expert geological
supervision for structural infor-
mation.
It is doubtful, in fact, whether
it would be possible to sink a
well to any depth at any point
in the Papuan Pliocene “argil-
laceous series” without en-
countering traces of gas or oil.
That, however, is a very differ-
ent matter to a commercial
strike of oil, which requires the
presence of reasonably thick
porous beds, permeable over a
large area, to act as an oil reser-
voir. Anything approaching
such a reservoir has yet to be
encountered in Papua.
An even more remarkable
rise in share values is that of
Roma Blocks following the re-
ceipt of the Hohoro rumor,
Roma is completely divorced
from Papua, both geographi-
cally and geologically, and a
commercial oil-strike in Papua
would have about as much sig-
nificance to Roma ag one in
Timbuctoo.
The full statement to the
Press by the Australasian Petro-
leum Co. is worth repeating:
Hohoro bore has reached a depth
of 2323 ft., and a core taken in the
last 16ft. drilled has revealed a small
oil content.
Company officials attach no special
significance to the evidence other
than that it is obviously a favorable
indication and an encouragement to
drill deeper. They state, however,
that the evidence should be viewed
in its true perspective. Small surface
oil-seepages occur in many localities
in Papua, and it would indeed be
surprising if similar oil impregnations
were not encountered in the forma-
tions passed through by the drill.
The existence of an oil accumulation
in commercial quantities depends
upon a suitable reservoir as well as
upon the presence of oil. It will be
necessary to drill deeper to determine
whether such a reservoir rock does,
in fact, exist at Hohoro. Further
drilling will be delayed awaiting the
arrival of barytes.
It is further pointed out that a
Government bore drilled at Upoia in
1917 encountered a small oil showing
between 185 ft. and 200 ft., but the
Australasian Petroleum Company
bore now drilling has already pene-
trated to a depth of 2662 ft. without
meeting a reservoir rock.
Company officials state that in the
event of oil in commercial quantities
being encountered in any of its bores,
a prompt announcement would be
made.
Whether the Moresby furphy
factory will recover from this
latest blow and still retain some
influence on the market is con-
jectural, It has never repeated
its initial success of May, 1947,
when it announced the striking
of commercial oil in the Kariava
bore with such plausibility that
the Sydney and Melbourne even-
ing papers splashed the news
across their front pages and the
price of Papuan oil shares
doubled temporarily. But it has
since survived the “hissing-gas”
(B. 1/ 6 / ’49) and the “pumping-
machinery” (B. 3/8/’49) epi-
sodes.
There are many people who
bought shares in Oil Search with
the intention of seeing a well-
run venture through to an ulti-
mate verdict from the drill.
They aren’t much concerned
with rumors. But gamblers who
can’t wait and can’t afford to
lose their cash may get their
fingers burned if they continue
to nut faith in Port Moresby
furphies.
There’s a growing trend for
N.Z. industrial concerns to
merge interests with Australian
cos. At the end of August N.Z.
Plywood (South Island), Ltd.,
Christchurch, one of the 10
chicks of Fletcher Holdings,
Ltd., Auckland, joined forces
with Kauri Timber Co., Mel-
bourne, by selling a half-interest.
Knight James Fletcher, head
serang of the combine, hailed the
move as a good “forward step,”
and claimed there’d be gain to
both sides by pooling experience,
resources and research capacity.
Kauri had substantial timber re-
serves in the South Island which
would help the Christchurch
plywood mill to operate at “a
high degree of efficiency, with an
assured supply of peeler logs.”
It cost a quarter of a million to
build and equip this mill. This
puts Kauri’s interest at £125,000.
Production was just ahead when
the merger was sewn up, and
was likely soon to fill the gap in
M. supplies. Fletcher figured
out that there would be some
export capacity, so Australian,
U.K. and U.S. markets were
being tested out for trade pros-
pects. Back in June, 1945,
Fletcher Holdings was wedded
to Colonial Sugar Co. by part-
ing with a block of 250,000
shares for £312,500, and in
March, 1948, C.S.R. took up a
further share for every three
when Fletcher’s capital was lifted
to a million. Other M.L. and
Australian industrial tie-ups in-
clude the purchase of a majority
holding of 500,335 ords. in
Korma Textiles (N.Z.), Ltd.'s,
million (a quarter-million prefs.)
by Felt and Textiles of Aus-
tralia, Ltd., which has a big
voice in Felt and Textiles of
N. Ltd., too.


&
a
A
A
This responsibility
is yours
Your beneficiaries have every right to expect that your
estate will be handled with the utmost care. If your
judgment is faulty, imprudent administration can endanger
assets built up by your energy and foresight. However, it
is a simple matter to provide competent control: the
appointment of Burns Philp Trust Company as executor
or trustee ensures that your beneficiaries will be protected
at every turn.
A copy of "Hands That Never Leave the Wheel" will be
forwarded on request. Full details of the Company's many
services are given in this interesting booklet.
DIRECTORS:
James Bums Joseph Mitchell P. T. W. Black Eric Priestley Lee
MANAGER: L. S. Parker SECRETARY: E. R. Overton, F.F.I.A.
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR • TRUSTEE • AGENT
Constituted by Special Act of the N.S.W. Parliament.
Head Office; 7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Tel.: BU 5901 Box 543, 5.P.0., Sydney
6S
drdon's
Stand? Sufk&mjv
dsf
0y AppoiQtmtaft'-
Cin DUtiilcra
H.M. Kim Geoff# V»\
ffaoqaeray. Gordon ft Co 111
Qua&rfy
$rtccrm^a/ta&e,
INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in Hong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £10,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BWBI3I (3 lines). C. R. CORNWELL. Manager.
217,000 Australians
should note
i/i
it's
,fS
OF MATURING
COMMONWEALTH SECURITIES
«4
H u "•
faw* Hum
Certain Commonwealth Loan Securities,
issued as long ago as 1935 and others
as recently as 1946, are now about to
mature. Do you hold any of these
Bonds or Inscribed Stock? ... If you
do, remember that the interest your
Securities have been paying you will
cease on maturity, and that re-investment
is necessary NOW to maintain their
income-earning power.
The way to check whether any of your
holdings are affected and the way to
re-invest in the Eighth Security Loan are
explained on the right of this announce-
ment. It will pay you to read this
information at once.
CONVERT
Maturing Commonwealth
Securities into the
EIGHTH
SECURITY LOAN
tmtisii
ALL YOU WANT
TO KNOW ABOUT
CONVERSION
OF MATURING
COMMONWEALTH
SECURITIES
These are the issues about to
mature: —
Maturing 15th September: 2J%
Bonds and Inscribed Stock
(issued in 1945—three issues.
The maturity date shown on
these Securities is 15th Sep-
tember, 1949-1950, but the
Treasurer has exercised his
option to redeem these Securi-
ties on 15th September, 1949,
and they are now due for
conversion on that date).
Maturing 15th October: 2%
Bonds and Inscribed Stock
(issued in 1946—tw0 Issues);
3i% Bonds and Inscribed Stock
(issued in 1935 —one issue).
Maturing 15th November: 31%
Bonds and Inscribed Stock
(issued in 1935 and 1936—tw0
issues).
WHAT TO DO
If you have lodged with your
bank for safe custody more than
£lO worth of any of the Securi-
ties listed above, you will be
sent a conversion application
form. If you do not receive
such a form, check the maturity
dates of your Securities in one
of the following ways:
1. If your Bonds are in your
possession: Look at them at once
and compare the rates and
maturity dates printed at the
top with those indicated in the
list above.
2. If you lodged your Bonds
with your bank for safe-keeping:
Most banks issue a receipt or
acknowledgment for Bonds left
with them for safe custody. If
you hold any such receipts, com-
pare the maturity dates shown
with the list above.
3. If you cannot discover
maturity dates: Go to your
bank to-day and ask whether
any of the Securities listed
above are held on your behalf,
HOW TO CONVERT
If you find that your Securities
are about to mature, ask your
Bank, Money Order Post Office
or Stockbroker for an applica-
tion form for conversion into
the Eighth Security Loan. Pill
in one form for each series of
Bonds or Stock maturing (new
2% Securities are for £l,OOO
and multiples only) and hand
it back. That’s all. You Will
then possess Eighth Security
Loan Bonds or Inscribed Stock
of the same value as your
maturing Securities, and interest
on your Securities will continue.
CASH
INVESTMENT
TOO
Apart from those with maturing
Securities to convert, everyone
may buy Bonds (£lO, £5O, £lOO,
£5OO or £1,000), or Inscribed
Stock, through any Bank,
Savings Bank, Money Order
Post Office or Stockbroker.
Interest is payable each six
months at 3i% per annum for
fourteen years or at 2% per
annum for three years. (Invest-
ment in 2% Securities must
be for £l,OOO and multiples
thereof.)
Repayment in full at maturity
is guaranteed by the Common-
wealth. There's no better place
for your savings. Invest at once.
LONDON ALRMAIL
From Herbert Holman
On looking over this year’s
remarkably constant summer,
two general impressions come
to mind. The first is the
large number of oversea
visitors who have chosen to
spend their holidays here this
summer and who, in general,
seem to have enjoyed them-
selves. The second is the resur-
gence of the spirit of adventure.
Some 50 “Vikings,” perhaps with
greater respect for their own
hardiness than for the recorded
facts of history, re-enacted the
visit of Hengist and Horsa and
journeyed, self-propelled, from
Denmark to the Isle of Thanet
and afterwards to London. The
wide tributes that were paid to
them in person appear to have
surprised them less than the dis-
covery that English folk quite
failed to live up to character
and actually proved to be
human and hospitable.
The daily newspapers sug-
gested that Channel swimmers
were lining up in twos and
threes on the French coast wait-
ing for favorable conditions.
Two young Englishmen sailed
their own home-built 20ft. yacht
from Nova Scotia to Devon just
to show that they could make
seaworthy boats; and another
crossed the Atlantic single-
handed in the reverse direction.
All Kinds of Music
The music-lover with time for
travel and economy in the use
of his allowance has had no
cause to grumble at the lack of
opportunity to enrich his experi-
ence. Festivals at Aix-en-
Provence, Salzburg, Lucerne
and now Edinburgh have each
followed hard on the other.
The annual Scottish Festival
of Arts grows bigger in size and
importance every year. It is re-
markable how wide the pilgrim-
age has extended since the first
festival of only two years ago ;
and Edinburgh, though rich in
other traditions, has no musical
background comparable to Salz-
burg or Bayreuth. On scanning
the programme it is impossible
to single out any one name with-
out churlishly ignoring a score
or so of equally famous con-
temporaries.
In three weeks the Scottish
capital offers seven orchestras,
five conductors and at least one
composer of world distinction,
four chamber-music ensembles,
opera, ballet, world premieres
of music and drajma—altogether
a concentration of talent that
reads like a catalogue of gramo-
phone records. Other activities
—a film festival, exhibitions of
art, international photography
and Scottish industries as well
as the indigenous piping, danc-
ing and highland games—are
relegated to the insignificance of
a postscript.
Meanwhile London carries
valiantly, if less coruscatingly,
on with that summer phenome-
non the nightly “Prom.” Audi-
ences are huge as ever and as
wildly enthusiastic. The Albert
Hall has again been subjected
to ingenious improvisation in a
brave effort to make of it what
it can never be —a satisfactory
concert - hall. That strange,
knobbly canopy above the
orchestra has been taken away,
and only now, on the admis-
sion of its failure, has it been
learned that it bore the dignified
name of velarium. An alu-'
minium ceiling has been fitted
with the object of jgiving, it is
said, “sharper definition to the
sound of the orchestra”: in
other words, to try to defeat the
echo. One considerable im-
provement is the diffused light-
ing which now enables the ever-
faithful to follow their minia-
ture scores.
Several critics have shown an
impatient tendency to admonish
the audience for its exuberance,
and appear to have forgotten
that the “Proms” are an institu-
tion where audience-participa-
tion is as keen, if perhaps not
quite as boisterous, as at any
Test at Sydney Oval. As
always, promenaders sometimes
betray the fact that they aren’t
as selectively highbrow as they
believe! themselves to be. Johann
Strauss can still steal, the show,
if foot-stamping, clapping and
loud bravo-ing are any guides.
Pomp and Pugilism
Straight actors repeatedly
complain that dramatic critics,
glad for an opportunity to re-
lax, rarely give to the lighter
stage the same incisive attention
that they do to serious plays.
They feel, with some justifica-
tion, that the habit is unfair to
themselves and to the Theatre
generally.
“Tough at the Top,” the new
C. B. Cochran-A. P. Herbert-
Vivian Ellis musical (Adelphi
theatre), certainly won’t stand
too close an analysis, even
though its broad appeal may be
tolerably pleasing after a good
dinner and a couple of drinks.
The discerning may notice that
it is at once lavish yet hollow,
Vivian Ellis’s music is as tune-
ful in ditty as. it is incidentally
pertinent. Wendy Toye’s pro-
duction accounts for a large
share of the show’s charm as
well as deftly covering up its
weaknesses.
The principals do well,
George Tozzi sings like an
operatic tenor, while looking
and acting like the world-beat-
ing pugilist he represents, com-
plete with narrow waist, mas-
sive shoulders —and even hairy
chest. If Maria D’Attili, a
coloratura soprano from Puerto
Rico, has a better command of
her roulades than of her Eng-
lish she can hardly be blamed
for that, and she, too, acts well.
Brian Reece, as a serio-comic
Prussian, effortlessly unifies a
diversity of characterisation.
The dancers also deserve men-
tion for their lively technique,
which, once loaned from the
ballet, now seems part of the
stock -in - trade of musical
comedy.
Sir Alan Herbert’s book is a
long way below his best. This
is not noticeable where his lyrics
are partnered with engaging
music. Elsewhere it almost
seems as if he weren’t trying.
The plot is nebulous and
itinerant, even by musical-play
standards. The scene changes
from Pomania (Lac des Cygnes,
plus Austrian Tyrol) to England
at the beginning of the century,
with Derby Day, the boxing
ring and numerous Gaiety girls.
The audience, substantially
British in appearance, was in-
vited several times to laugh at
itself. That it should have
stayed mute and indifferent
when it might have been rock-
ing the theatre is probably be-
cause the material was so thin.


the greatest
safety measure
for engines
Catch your engine in
time. Start lubrica-
ting it now with Shell
Motor Oil. Shell
brings you every post-war inprovement in
lubrication quality. It protects every moving
part of your engine—improves its perfor-
mance—prolongs its life. There is a correct
Shell Oil or Grease for every part of every
make and model of car. Ask for Shell, the
greatest safety measure , and see that you get it.
fwWOT.tlt'Of ' l ' J..
SVttW»O' W °
The Shell Company of Australia Limited
(Incorporated in Great Britain)
&
rr-.
Interlude for light-hearted gaiety and
cheerful chatter, to the accompaniment of ingen-
ious cocktails made with Vickers Gin and simple
ingredients. Vickers —always excellent, always
satisfying—the universally accepted drink of the
times.
the GIN will he
FAMOUS SINCE 1750
VG7A/lfc
The urgent need
is
MANPOWER
In the past ten years—due mainly
to the demands and effects of War
there has been much development of
Australian Industry.
Many new industries came into
being as a direct consequence of War.
Others, previously established, were
given immense impetus by the War.
The overwhelming need in all these
industries, of course, is Manpower
men and women who will throw
themselves, heart and soul, into the
agreeable business of earning their
living.
Another day-by-day need of all
these industries is a complete Banking
Service. An increasing number of
concerns in these industries turns to
this Bank for that service.
The Bank’s officers in Head Office
and over 300 Branches will be glad
to discuss this service with those
desiring it.
THE
COMMERCIAL
BANKING
COMPANY
OF SYDNEY
LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
DIMINISHING FREEDOMS.
Contending that, while it is
right to characterise Fascism
and Communism as “throw-
backs to barbarism,” it is idle
to maintain that democracies are
getting through the period of
Statism unscathed, “Wall-street
Journal” looks into the phe-
nomenon of Governments being
so entrusted with human rights
as they are.
What, it asks, is the some-
thing which has evidently inter-
vened in the last 150 years to
reverse the direction of maxi-
mum freedom?
It suggests that lack of effec-
tive opposition to the encroach-
ments of the State “exhibits a
preference for drugged security
over the aliveness of independ-
ence, which is to say the alive-
ness of being fully human.
Otherwise we would not let
bureaucrats dictate to us; we
would kick them out first, or
would never have let them in at
all. We would accept any
dangers rather than submit to
Government control.
“We the people, then, have
altered. The temptation is to
say at once that we have grown
weak. In fact, we have not so
much grown weak as we have
changed our values. We have
....adopted gods whose best
prophet, though we may not
realise it, is Marx. Perhaps in
the end that is the same as grow-
ing weak.
“Modern man is a materialist.
The industrial revolution, with
its ensuing flood of material
conveniences, would have made
him a materialist whether he
wanted to be or not. But there
is a difference between being a
materialist in the sense of using
and enjoying mechanical con-
veniences and being a materialist
in the sense of making material-
ism—the pursuit of creature
comfort for its own sake —one’s
philosophy......
“To one who accepts
materialism as a way of life, of
what interest can it be that his
freedom is in jeopardy? He is
by definition not interested, for
he is primarily interested in
comfort, which is what the
materialist civilisation he has in-
herited is above all prepared to
give him.
“This is the cue for the State
to absorb him. The State tells
him it can give him comfort,
that he need never expose him-
self to the dangers inherent in
individuality. When the price
for the State’s munificence turns
out to be his freedom —well,
that is something he has all
along been conditioned to value
lightly because he has been con-
ditioned to value comfort
m0re......
“The paramount fallacy of
Marxism is precisely that it pre-
sents a whole way of life based
on the fractional truth of
materialism. Marx mistook
economic man for the whole
man. The transition from
Marxism to Stalinism is easy,
for it is merely the translation
of materialist theory into com-
plete materialist practice. If
economics is the whole of life,
what has freedom to do with it?
A man can be clothed, fed,
housed, employed and hospita-
lised without-being free. Free-
dom —a spiritual concept —is
alien in a materialist-dominated
world. In a Marxist-materialist
society—the full flower of
materialist practice—it ceases to
exist. It comes in time to be not
understood, as it is already not
understood by the Soviet
hierarchy.
“We in the Western world are
not so far gone yet. Can it be
seriously doubted that we are
travelling that road? The Gov-
ernment of Britain is philoso-
phically Marxist, but professes to
be anti-Communist, an absurd
distinction which in fact means
only that the process of trans-
lating theory into full practice
is slower. Yet the area of per-
sonal freedom is diminishing
rapidly enough.
“In the United States we
have a Government which pro-
fesses to be both anti-Marxist
and anti-Communist. But it be-
haves as though its basic philoso-
phy were in agreement with
Marx. It operates* on the fun-
damental Marxist assumption of
economic man instead of man.
It is inflamed with its messianic
duty to provide every material
want to its citizens. It has no
reluctance about controlling
them in the process.
“We the people will not have
a chance of halting that process
until we... .abandon materialism
as a philosophy and put it to
work as a means rather than an
end.”
A Changed France.
For some time after the war
France looked a certain prize for
either Communism at the one
extreme or De Gaulle at the
other. On the evidence of the
remarkably lasting stability of
its present Government, reflect-
ing the growing stability of
France itself, N. Y. “Herald
Tribune” concludes that even if
that Government should be over-
turned its successor would have
to adhere to its general policies:
“France has made great strides
forward down the middle of the
road, and she appears deter-
mined to continue in the same
direction.”
A n accompanying great
change has been a considerable
modification of the earlier openly
hostile attitude towards Ger-
many, which change London
“Times’s” Paris correspondent
calls “perhaps the most remark-
able tendency of French thought
since the war.” This change has
been especially noticeable since


CURE YOUR
mily’s FUTURE
Your family’s security is an
important matter which should
receive your immediate atten-
tion. This family responsi-
bility can be fulfilled by taking
out a suitable life assurance
policy with the Equitable Probate
& General Insurance Co. Ltd.,
who are fully experienced in
these matters to expertly advise
you*
R. Y. PERKINS.
General Manager,
WIOBATE * 1
IHSWUNCE CO 11,
tit <Kt0/fitf-5?rt71 (fataft, ptb ■ > t
W’HCtUO HOUSE. 4XCEI PUCE,
)b0 CQ1UMS STREET, MELBOURNE.
DUPIICATOR
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
Has all the finest features
ci high-priced imported
machines at only a trac-
tion ol their cost The
"National" Rotary Dupll
color will reproduce
Typing, Writing. Plans.
Music, etc.
tmQj imtifij l» AuJtrmht by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
(Inrttnui
ITDNBT W. C. Ponfold A Co. Ptj. Ltd.
HELBOUKNB . Norman Bro». Pt> Ltd
ADIUISI , Vardon A Son* Ltd
PKBTB Dock.l Book Co. (Anil.)
HIGH BLOOD PRESSURE
should it alarm you?
IS high blood pressure necessarily bad, damaging to the
heart, kidneys, blood vessels? If you have it, does it matter
whether your pressure’s up a little or a lot? DOES blood
pressure increase with age normally? SHOULD your pres-
sure be “age plus 100”? In September Reader’s Digest,
Joseph Weitzenkora brings reassuring, little-known facts to
the millions who have hypertension (but who probably have
decades of healthful living ahead of them). Get your Digest
today.
Also in September Reader’s Digest
One man's answer to labour
unrest. Can management and
labour work together? Here
is a first example of the de-
centralisation of an industry
, . . not only of manufacturing
operations but management as
well. More than that it is
one man’s contribution toward
the solution of one of the
most deep-seated of all labour
problems—an attempt to make
the factory worker feel that
he counts.
The city that died of fear.
High in Arizona’s mountains,
5,000 Indians lived in a city
with three-story houses. What
made them flee one day, 600
years ago, leaving treasures,
jewellery (even dinner cook-
ing!)? Here’s what excava-
tions reveal of a vanished
people—one of the perplexing
mysteries of all time.
30 page book condensation
from The Snake Pit. The
story of a girl who lost her
mind—and found it; a bril-
liant and terrifying account
of life In a mental hospital.
For some, such a place may be
a haven and refuge from the
world; for others It may be a
“snake pit," like the pits of
ancient times into which the
Insane were thrown to shock
them back to reason. “The
Snake Pit” created a stir in
world literary circles and
quickly became one of the
most widely read and dis-
cussed books of recent years.
Made into a film by Twentieth
Century Fox, it is currently
appearing In Australian
theatres.
Last moments «f a free man.
“It is only by brute force
that you stay in power. Gun
and gallows are your only
argument. But I favour an-
other argument . . • free
speech!” Unforgettable eye-
witness account of how
Nikola Petkov gave his life
in ringing defiance of Bul-
garian Communist tyranny.
In this issue—more than 30
articles of lasting interest ,
selected from leading maga-
zines and current books,
and condensed to save your
time.
Read and enjoy September
Readers Digest
ONE SHILLING All Newsagents and Bookstalls
the signing last year of the Lon-
don agreements on Germany,
which “marked the turning-point
in French German policy, and
the final interment of French
plans for a detached Rhineland
and Ruhr.” Though still with-
out enthusiasm, France is now
“willing to share more or less in
the designs of her other Western
partners for their consolidation
of Western Germany.”
That in itself almost incredible
change has been accompanied
by another: “A belief in the
reality of a united, corporate
Europe has grown up to the
point where France can fairly
claim to be the leader in the
experiment.” A united Europe,
“the structure of which should
constitute in itself a permanent
guarantee of peace,” is now the
French aim, along with seeking
the means whereby “the energies
of the Germans, who will eventu-
ally be admitted on an equal
footing into the company of
the other European States, can
be turned into peaceful and con-
structive channels.”
Tito’s “Heresy.”
The seeming Tito-Kremlin
breach, which began to show
when Tito started mixing
nationalism with his Commun-
ism, has apparently been most
rapidly widening since June, with
Tito making more definite, if
qualified, approaches to the
West, and the Kremlin Bear
growling louder about that burr
in its fur.
The Marshal (as London
“Times” almost affectionately
calls him, risking a letter to the
editor from Stalin) announced
in July that he would be gradu-
ally closing the Greek frontier.
This, by N. Y. “Times” report,
was mere formality, that border
having, it said, been sealed since
last November. Still, it could
be interpreted as a concession
to the West.
About the same time Tito an-
nounced that he had applied to
the (Western) International Bank
for a loan of $250,000,000. This
announcement was couched in
typical Titoistic bombast; if the
loan could be arranged without
“political considerations,” well
and good; if not, “we will do
without it as best we can,” That
best, however, would be a sad
alternative, the Marshal admit-
ting that the Cominform eco-
nomic pressure had placed
Yugoslavia “in a most difficult
situation,” particularly in non-
delivery of machines “specially
made for Yugoslavia and already
paid for,” It was now, he rue-
fully admitted, “a matter of
buying them all over again from
the other side” —meaning the
West.
As to the requested loan, the
head of an International Bank
mission in Belgrade has since in-
dicated that Yugoslavia would
not get anything approaching
the stated amount. If Yugo-
slavia was granted a loan, he
said, it “would be expected to
keep the bank informed of any
trends and actions which might
affect repayment. We, of course,
—Washington “Post.”
"THINK MAYBE IF WE NODDED TO HIM OR
SOMETHING? ...”
are interested in seeing that all
our debtors maintain amicable
relations with all the creditors,
and this will be one of the fac-
tors affecting our decision. The
purpose is to march along to-
gether with the debtor nations,”
The willingness of the West to
do business with Tito was indi-
cated in a “Christian Science
Monitor” report announcing
that the Marshal would certainly
get a loan. The U.S. State De-
partment announced it had “no
political objections,” and a
potent factor in “pushing the
loan had been pressure from
U.S. businessmen,” pointing out
that “British, French and other
Allied businessmen had been
grabbing off juicy Yugoslav
orders.”
That doing business with the
West had become urgent for
Tito was shown in a report from
Belgrade in N. Y. “Times”:
“The Yugoslavs occupy a lone
position among the Communist
States because they have been
expelled from the Cominform
and have been blockaded eco-
nomically. This blockade has
hurt them because more than
any other country in Eastern
Europe Yugoslavia’s national
economy and planning were
geared to Eastern European mar-
kets ; and unlike Czechoslo-
vakia, Hungary and Poland,
most of whose trade was with
the West, their trade was almost
exclusively with the East.”
London “Times,” editorially
surveying the general issue
of Titoism in the Soviet
satellite countries, has pictured
all those “new democracies” as
shaky establishments, anyway:
“Though the Communists are
now firmly in the saddle they re-
main minority Governments,
trying to impose a drastic revo-
lution on the masses of their
countrymen, who are at best
apathetic and often hostile. It
should not be forgotten that even
in the artificial elections held in
these countries after the war,
often under conditions of terror,
the opposition vote was con-
siderable. There is no reason to
think that the passage of time
has made any great change.”
But that kind of opposition,
“serious though it is, does not
worry the leaders of the Comin-
form in Russia and the satellite
countries nearly as much as fear
of ‘Titoism’ or nationalism
within the Communist party it-
self. ..‘Titoism’ is an insidious
disease from which no Com-
munist is immune and which
may break out within the citadel
of power. By appealing to
nationalism and to the longing
for independence, still by far the
most powerful political forces in
Europe, it can win the support
of all creeds and all classes.”
The Soviet Government had
meanwhile taken steps to nip
off other budding Titos, but “it
can hardly feel safe so long as
the original one obstinately sur-
vives as the source of con-
tagion,” Thus, in the “Times’s”
summing-up, “Yugoslavia to-
day is a portent; it is the coun-
try which breaks the rules.
Eastern Europe already watches
with interest and admiration a
country that can go Communist
while preserving its independ-
ence ; it will watch with even
greater interest if it sees that
Yugoslavia can receive help
from the West without aban-
doning its Socialist principles.
Nationalism is still a powerful
force in Eastern Europe, and it
is difficult to imagine that
Poland, or Hungary, or Czecho-
slovakia would long remain sub-
ject to Russian domination if
there was any hope of escape.
The downfall of Marshal Tito
would be a heavy blow to mil-
lions who secretly—or openly—
side with him; his survival
would be a source of hope and
encouragement. The Soviet
Government is well aware of
what is at stake.”
A Churchill Warning.
On the ground that Mr.
Churchill has proved himself
such a sound prophet that any
warning of his, however dimly
hinted, is not to be lightly
ignored, N. Y. “Herald Tribune”
writers Joseph and Stewart Alsop
inferred a specific warning
from the prophet’s reference to
the atom-bomb in U.S. hands
holding the Soviet Union in
check and his comment: “We
have certainly not an unlimited
time before a settlement should
be achieved."
The Alsops’ interpretation of
Mr, Churchill’s meaning is:
“We have only two ways to sur-
vival. Either Russia will change
radically and soon. Or when
the ‘not unlimited period’ of our
safety begins to run out, we
must force a preventive crisis,
leading if need be to preventive
war, in order to secure a settle-
ment with the Kremlin. When
this will be necessary is suggested
by his emphasis on the tempo-
rary American monopoly on
atomic energy. In short, there
must be a showdown before the
Kremlin possesses ‘a people’s
democratic atomic bomb.’”
On that reading of Mr.
Churchill’s meaning, the writers
commented that it was “the first
serious, public suggestion—dim
and roundabout to be sure—that
preventive action may ultimately
be necessary to counter the
Soviet menace. Coming from
anyone but the greatest living
figure of the West 50 startling
a suggestion might be ignored.
But tens of millions of men have
perished, the very foundations of
civilisation have been shaken,
because Mr. Churchill’s warn-
ings were too blithely dismissed
on a previous occasion.”
Gamblers All.
Maybe Australians have a
special reputation as gamblers
which they don’t altogether de-
serve. Anyway, N. Y. “Times”
estimates that no fewer than
50,000,000 Americans —half the
adult population—gamble some
way or other;
“Most of their bets go into
lotteries, horseraces, cards and
dice, ‘numbers’ games, slot-
machines, roulette and punch-
boards.”
Also, a Churches Committee
on Gambling has calculated that
in Britain last year the gambling
turnover on and off the course
for horseracihg alone was
£350,000,000. Football-p o o 1
betting in Britain, put at some
£20,000,000 for one pre-war
year, had last year risen to
£61,250,000. The pool-betting,
in fact, has been described as
‘‘the seventh-largest form of
business” in Britain. The “dogs”
would, of course, add further
huge amounts.
Commenting on lotteries in
Britain, Sir Frank Newsam, Per-
manent Under-Secretary, Home
Office, said there was a large
volume of opinion which saw no
harm in legalised small lotteries,
but which “would regard it as
a great social evil to allow lot-
teries on a large scale to become
part of our system.”
He might have had Australia
in mind in that comment, but a
further statement he made would
seem to indicate that he had
never heard of Australian lot-
tery experience. If the State ran
a lottery, he said, “there might
be great interest in it in the
initial stages, but I believe that,
however honest it was, after a
time people would get bored
with it”!
Dragnet Digest.
It Could Have Been Noah’s. —A
story related in the “Saturday Even-
ing Post” of Pierre de Gaulle,
brother of the general, must take the
biscuit in bureaucracy. Pierre, who
is Mayor of Paris, was wandering
around the Paris City Hall when at
the end of a dark corridor he saw a
door . labelled in fading letters,
Bureau of Claims Payments for the
Flood of 1910. When he opened the
door “he practically fell over two
white-haired old parties, as startled
as bears wakened out of hibernation."
With a question or two the Mayor
gathered that all the flood claims
had, in fact, been paid off by 1913,
since when the now-very-old chaps
had just stuck around “straightening
things out” —and drawing their pay.
* * * •
Reclaiming (he Zuyder Zee. —On
the plan first approved back in 1918,
the Dutch, with some Marshall-Plan
aid, are pushing ahead with what
London “Times” has described as
“among the boldest and most
imaginative enterprises ever under-
taken by man,” winning back over a
thousand square miles from the sea.
When the job is finished the Zuyder
Zee will be no more than a sweet-
water lake; Amsterdam will be an
inland city. The “Times” compli-
ments the farseeing Dutch states-
manship : the benefits of the great
work will not be reaped for perhaps
several generations.
» * * ♦
Com. Fifth-column Strength. —Lord
Vansittart, who proved a sound
enough guide on Hitler, these days
gives like guidance on the fifth-
column which is potentially more
dangerous by far than Hitler’s. In
a recent London speech, Lord Van-
sittart pointed to the danger that
“Communists might divert us into a
third world war through a civil war.”
Britain, he said, was being infiltrated
at a rate he had never known before,
and if one multiplied any previous
ideas of the numbers of a fifth-
column by 100, that would still give
a conservative estimate of the number
of Communist saboteurs and sub-
versionists. “The Communist party
is not a party but a conspiracy, and
against it we are waging the cold
war with startling apathy and in-
competence.”
♦ * * ♦
Unpopular Chinese. Quoting
foreign observers who have spent up
to 50 years in China as unanimously
agreeing that that nation is “genera-
tions away from real self-rule,” that
“the Chinese has an inbred .hatred of
any form of government” and that
“patriotism, except as expressed in
anti-foreignism, is unknown to him,”
since “he is exclusively interested in
the welfare of his family,” a Chicago
“Tribune” Far East correspondent
adds: “This preoccupation with per-
sonal profit has caused the Chinese
to be hated throughout South-east
Asia, where they control virtually all
retail business. It has caused the
Formosans to cry for a return of the
Japanese, despite a half-century of
oppression.”
* * * *
Israeli Lebensraum. —The core of
Arab resentment of Israel, as ex-
plained by Middle East expert E. L.
Spears in a London “Times” letter:
“Arab opposition to a Jewish State
in Palestine has, ever since 1918, been
primarily due to the Arab conviction
that there was not room in Palestine
both for the Arabs, who had been
living there for 1200 years, and for
large-scale Jewish immigration from
Europe. That these fears were justi-
fied is shown by the fact that over
900,000 Arabs have lost their homes,
and that the Jews now argue that
they cannot be allowed to return
because there is not living space in
Palestine both for them and for the
Jewish immigrants now in the
country. In these circumstances it is
natural that the Arabs should expect
the cry of ‘More living space for the
Jews’ to arise once more. While
these Arab fears remain there will
never be peace and stability in the
Middle East.”


♦
FIRST IN 1888
No other Battery can match • . .
txi
FIRST TODAY!
Exide’s 61 Years’ Experience
EXiDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD., 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
■■■- ■ — "« i 1 ' " XA>4»~
PERSONAL ITEMS
Lt.-Cdr. George Langley Fowle,
D.S.C., who will be Rear-Admiral
Eccles’s operations and intelligence
officer, is a 33-year-old gunnery-jack who
was in cruiser Australia when her regatta
boats tossed the Mediterranean Fleet, two
years running, in Alexandria. War II
Diggers, Middle-East bound, will re-
member the comforting bulk of battler
Ramillies joining their convoy off Fre-
mantle. Fowle was one of her lieutenants,
on his way to England for his long
gunnery course. A month after he started
it he took command of a Dutch schuyt—
the Dunkirk call was for all hands —and
in her took off troops from Cherbourg and
St. Malo. Finishing his course, he did a
spot of bomb-disposal, returned to local
waters and was cruiser Hobart’s gunnery-
officer when a Jap torpedo opened her
after-part off Guadalcanal. Fowle stood-
by her refitting, and was responsible for
the gunnery training of her almost-new
crew when she headed north again, to the
bombardments of Cebu, Tarakan, Brunei
Bay and Balikpapan. He was still with
her when she anchored in Tokyo Bay for
the surrender. He was in charge of
training the Fleet’s gunners at Flinders
until his new posting.
The retirement of Sir Adrian Boult will
make a notable rent in the ranks of
British conductors. Music Director of the
8.8. C. since 1930, and present con-
ductor of its symphony orchestra, he
learnt his musical pothooks at Leipzig
Conservatory, and there showed an excep-
tional gift for score-reading. This, com-
bined with a deep interest in the technical
and interpretative problems of conduct-
ing, and his joining, in 1914, the musical
staff of the Covent Garden Opera, lifted
him rapidly up the scale, a climb high-
marked by an engagement by Diaghileff
to conduct a season of Russian ballet in
London and culminating with his invita-
tion to conduct the N.B.C.’s New York
symphony orchestra in its first season in
1937-38. Knighted in 1937, he is now 60.
“C.Q.”: A. E. Hocking, reappointed
Victorian State Savings Bank Commis-
sioner, holds the distinction of being the
first in State history to have his name
mentioned in a Parliamentary bill. It
came about through disagreement with
friend Albert Dunstan, who, as Premier,
appointed Hocking, a one-time president
of the C.P., to the commissionership for
life. As friends do, they fell out, Hock-
ing jibbing at Albert’s son getting the
endorsement of the Mernda seat.
Subsequently Albert set about getting rid
of Hocking, who was just as determined
to stay put; Albert finally brought down
the State Savings Bank Commissioner’s
Bill to “declare vacant the coramis-
sionership of A. E, Hocking.” This year
Hocking was the central figure in the
breakaway (from Dunstan) of the C.P.
members who bolted into the L.C.P.
paddock. Now a member of the new
party, and chartered accountant, he
returns to his old position after 10 years.
Most sailors remember the doctor who
went to sea in an Atlantic corvette to
test his seasickness remedy and later
gulped; “An ideal got me on to this
blasted ship—l’ll pay a million quid to get
off it!” It will be a turn-up if Professor
Alexander Kennedy, Australia-botnd
by plane this month, is similarly affected
by air-malady. In World War II he
carried out the first research on the
psychology of parachute-training, mental
doses of which the Arnhem droppers and
others carried with them down to enemy
territory. Now Professor of Psycho-
logical Medicine in Durham University,
Kennedy is to tour all States here under
the aegis of the British Council. A lieut.-
colonel with the R.A.M.C. in the Middle
East, he later moved into the Balkans with
Military Intelligence. Among the many
high medical posts held since he left St.
Thomas’s Hospital Medical School is that
of honorary m.o. to the British Amateur
Boxing Association.
Alec Bayne, one of TA.A.’s senior
pilots, took his first aviation step in 1929
when he joined Larkin Aircraft Co. in
Port Melbourne as a ground-engineer.
Shortly afterwards he was selected for
training as a pilot under the noted
warbird Frank Neale, A.F.C., and com-
menced lessons on a 504 K Avro which
had been constructed in England in 1913.
After qualifying, Bayne bought a Puss
Moth and went barnstorming, taking two
passengers a time for 10-bob each, and
with the technique perfected he got an
average of 10 trips in each hour. In 1935
he sold the machine at a profit and settled
down to regular commercial flying on the
Tasmanian route. Types flown then were
Fox Moths and Dragons—now he flies
Skymasters, and with 25 types of aircraft
flown to his credit he brought the first
Skymaster, John Eyre, from America for
T.A.A.
Jack Beasley was Federal, leader of
Lang Labor during the wild days of de-
pression politics, and many would have
had that picture of him in mind when
they heard of his death in Sydney on
Friday night. But since those days the
fighter who lifted himself from a Sydney
County Council electrician to its elec-
tricity department sales-manager, then
into the presidency, at 27, of the Trades
and Labor Council, had mellowed a lot
without losing any of his keenness in
observation and debate ; he possessed one
of the most alert minds in Canberra. He
became a member of the Advisory War
Council in 1940, and for the rest of the
war was Minister for Supply and Ship-
ping in Curtin’s Cabinet, which suited his
administrative ability eminently. For six
months, in which the war ended, he was
Minister for Defence. Fifty-three, and
father of four, Beasley had quartered in
the Strand as High Commissioner since
January, 1946.
There were 64 applications for the post
of chairman and general manager of the
Victorian State Electricity Commission —
23 from Australia, 27 from Britain, five
from India and the Far East and one
apiece from Eire and Newfoundland.
The man selected comes from inside the
vast organisation. He is Ralph Alec
Hunt, one of John Monash’s young
lieutenants, chosen by that keen eye for
the job of assistant constructional
engineer at Yallourn in 1921. Hunt
joined the Water Commission in 1915,
served under Monash as a soldier, earned
a D.S.O. while a lieutenant, and after the
war rose rapidly up the scale to the design
and construction of the Glenmaggie
Weir. The Victorian side of the Hume
Weir was his next task. After that work
he was appointed general superintendent
of the Yallourn brown-coal mine, with its
model township, and has kept it afloat
through a sea of industrial troubles, while
RALPH HUNT,
head of the Victorian S.E.C.
the commission’s income has grown
from £70,000 per annum in 1921—its
first revenue - producing year —to
£7,000,000 in 1948. By combining the
posts of chairman and g.m. the State
Government has made Hunt supreme
head of the entire show.
“Curtain Raiser”: Remarks on success
stories made to the Junior Chamber of
Commerce in Melbourne by G. H.
Grimwade, Director of Drug Houses
Research Department and war-time
adviser to the Ministry of Munitions,
stimulated other businessmen to remi-
niscence. Meat baron William Angliss,
still going strong at 84, confesses to a
first wage of half-a-crown and board
for a 70-hour week; ex-Lud Mayor
George Wales laid his foundations when
the basic wage was seven-bob a day and
a house cost £600; W. Crichton, one of
the city’s largest caterers, who lost a leg
in World War I, mixed his schooling
with commerce by bread-carting; and
Oliver Nilsen, governing-director in radio
and chairman of six other concerns,
collected five-bob a week for carrying
buckets of stale beer from a hostelry to
his place of employment, where it was
used for polishing silver.
Here victimised by Fountain, Arch-
bishop Halse, head of the Church
of England in Queensland, is a big man
in a big job: besides Queensland, his
province includes the N.T. and New
Guinea. But geography holds no terrors
for the man who came here as a Bush
Brother in 1915. Bedfordshire-born
(1881), he went to St. Paul’s School,
London, where, in the same year, he was
captain of the Old Boys’ football team
and somebody named Bernard Mont-
gomery captained the school team. After
school, Brasenose, Oxford, playing at
front-row forward and swotting at
Classics (hons.), with the honors part in-
terrupted by concussion from playing;
after graduation. Theological College, and
ordination in 1906. A natural inclination
for tough jobs led to work in London
slums, followed by the Bush Brother-
ARCHBISHOP HALSE,
head of the Queensland C. of E.
hood. Present writer’s acquaintance with
his subject began 12 years ago when, a
pupil at Yanco Agricultural High School,
he was charmed by the then Bishop of
Riverina’s vivid story-telling from The
Pilgrim’s Progress, it being the visitor’s
pleasant custom to tell a serial story from
Bunyan whenever he came. The Arch-
bishop’s recent travels —not counting
routine jaunts to Torres Straits and
Darwin —include London for the Lambeth
conference; South India, where he was
interested in an experimental union of
Protestant Churches; and Japan, where
he and MacArthur talked on that
country’s future.
Awarded the Hunterian Professorship
for 1950 by the Royal College of
Surgeons, London, Maorilander Eric M.
Nanson left M.L. two years ago on a
Nuffield Fellowship to study specialised
surgery in England. Nanson, who served
with the Second N.Z. Division in the
Middle East, is now on the resident sur-
gical staff of St. Peter’s Hospital, London.
A son of the Rev. G. B. Nanson, Christ-
church, he received his education there
and walked the floors of the Flat City’s
hospital,
A British Council grant has come the
way of Charles Bush, the young Mel-
bourne painter who leaves for England
a few weeks hence. Official war artist
in Timor and New Guinea, he has since
won a succession of art prizes, including
the Bendigo Crouch oil prize, the
Minnie Crouch and Albury prizes and
the 1949 first prize in the Perth National
Gallery competition.
In his suite at the Australia (Sydney)
Todd Duncan was found giving another
of his generous auditions to a local
singer, for that is part of the negro bari-
tone’s creed. His face breaks into a wide
smile as he says; “It is good for an
artist to share his knowledge with com-
ing singers.” Around 6ft., powerfully
built and straight as a spear, Duncan
TODD DUNCAN.
comes on to the concert platform with a
peculiar cat-like tread. Graduating M.A.
at Columbia University, he went on as
Professor of Music to Howard Uni-
versity. But the call of the concert plat-
form was too strong. Though he has not
taught for eight years, he is still in the
faculty, the ’Varsity hoping that some
day he’ll return. Now on his second tour
of Australia and Maoriland, the baritone
has given no fewer than 500 concerts in
the past six years.
Many young Australians have gone
overseas for training under the aegis of
great singers like Melba; Harold Blair's
departure with Todd Duncan will be the
first time an aborigine has gone, sponsored
by a negro. The young Queensland tenor
will live in Washington with the Duncans,
the baritone will give him lessons, and
later he will be admitted to Howard
University, the huge institution for
colored students.
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, Frederick J. Nott, organist at
St. James’s Old Cathedral, West Melbourne,
and winner, at 17, of the first gold medal
awarded by the Victorian Musical Society. He
studied at the London Royal College of Music
under the King’s organist, Sir Walter Parratt,
and, after serving in World War I, returned to
lecture at the University Conservatorium, in
Melbourne.
In Christchurch (M.L.), at 87, Dr. Ernest
Roberton, whose interest for half a century was
care and education of children in Auckland.
He was president of the M.L. branch of the
8.M.A., and served with the Enzed Medical
Corps overseas for three years of World War I.
Three sons are doctors.
At Gisborne (M.L.), at 96, George White,
believed to be the last survivor of the happen-
ings when the Hauhaus went on the rampage in
1865. When a cutter brought down supplies
for his father’s shop at Whakatane, young
George, then 14, went aboard with his father.
A band of Hauhaus swooped on the cutter,
killed a Government official and four other
Europeans, and took White senior (two years
later killed by Maoris) and his son prisoner.
They later escaped, young White by swimming
the Rangitaiki River.
In England, Sir John William Dunne, Fellow
of the Royal Aeronautical Society, who, in
1904, invented the stable, tailless aerofoil (wing-
design) now bearing his name, and two years
later designed and built the first British military
aircraft, tested secretly by the War Office at
Blair Atholl (Eng.) in 1907.
In Melbourne, at 59, G. D. Low, founder
and managing-director of the large firm or
manufacturers’ agents. He had been vice-
commodore of the Royal Yacht Club, and m
his yacht Landfall won the Melboume-Devon-
port (Tas.) race three years ago.
In Sydney, at 75, George Martens, who was
prominent in the North Queensland A.WL.
for years before being selected to oust Dr.
Nott from the Herbert seat in 1928. He still
held it in 1946, when he lost the Labor selec-
tion but gained the directorship of Common-
wealth Oil Refineries.


WOMEN’S LETTERS
From Sydney
The Town Hall blazed with lights last
Thursday night when the Lady Mayoress
held her much-talked-of ball. Beneath
the great chandelier in the foyer a mound
of maidenhair fern, youngly green, was
massed. There were rugs on the floor,
and groups of chairs were set about. In
one corner bright-faced debs., their
satins shining, were photographed in a
blaze of white light. Young men in mili-
tary uniform —many of them had part-
nered the debs, in the special coming-out
waltz —hovered on the horizon, and an
army of waiters and waitresses with mili-
tary-like precision marched between the
serveries in the corridors and the main
hall during the supper-hour.
There was no plunging into the base-
ment for a snack. Tables had been set
cabaret-fashion around the dance-floor,
and when the moment came it sounded as
though all the knives and forks in the
world had been let loose. The stage was
such stuff as landscape-gardeners dream
of. It was thickly set with ferny
shoot and branch and spring-time
flowers, and from its deeps meandered a
tiny waterfall. The night’s big moment
was the presentation of the debs, to his
Excellency, Governor John Northcott.
And the Governor himself said to this
Letter that never had there been a more
pleasing and graceful picture than that
made by the girls as they curtseyed and
floated off into their dance. Mrs. Noel
Vincent, who made the presentations, was
attractive in pearl-grey satin, the bodice
of her frock closely embroidered in pearls.
The Lord Mayor and Mrs. O’Dea re-
ceived the guests. Her satin frock was
the shade of a tawny Iceland poppy.
Elizabeth Northcott, too, was in the
official group. State Premier McGirr
and Mrs. McGirr and Lieut.-General
Berryman and Mrs. Berryman were at
this large-size party, which will bring
about £5OO to the Lady Mayoress’s Relief
Fund.
Visiting baritone Todd Duncan must
have judged the “Singers of Australia” to
be mostly of the genus female by the roll-
up to the reception in his honor last
week. There was only a sprinkling of
men in two reception-rooms almost filled
with prettily-frocked women. Beneath her
long mink coat, on which was pinned a
knot of orchids, Mrs. Duncan wore a
frock of pale cyclamen. Violinist Daisy
Richards, Raymond Beattie, Gwen Aldis
and Clarence Black were the evening's
musicians.
The Society’s Women’s Auxiliary was
joint hostess, and president Nathalie
Rosenwax, her black moires sparkling
with facets of jet, made the speech of
welcome. Todd Duncan gave some excel-
lent advice to young singers. It was work,
more work and still more work. The
drawing-rooms of the Royal Empire
Society were gay with spring flowers.
Annie-Get-Your-Gun Evie Hayes flew
off to Maoriland last week, in her baggage
the contents of a small-arms factory in
the shape of guns. There were toy guns
and innumerable guns which were scent-,
liqueur- and champagne-containers.
Annie said farewells with champagne in
her dressing-room after the final perform-
ance—the 425th in Sydney—of the show
in which Annie has endeared herself to
all Australia, and Claude Flemming, as
Buffalo Bill, has proved yet again what a
favorite he is with his public. The whole
cast was hurtled out to Mascot in three
Qantas buses. Then came a midnight
winging across the Tasman. Evie,
whose hats are always something special,
has taken a dozen or more new Paris
models to Enzed. And what will the
winds of Wellington have to say to that?
After more than a year the curtain of
the Theatre Royal went up last Thurs-
day night without discovering a wild-west
setting. Instead there was a dining-room
of a London suburban home. It was
cosy enough, but a bit drab, so there’s
no decor to rave about. But that family’s
daddy should really go on the stage. He’s
got all the make-up of a good actor.
There’s a point the Girl in the Flat Op-
posite grumbles at. She says the two
young people going out to South Africa
on an income of £425 must be going to
live in a kraal.
Anyway, first-night listeners enjoyed
the fine acting of father and the fun of
the play. A North Shore line group in-
cluded Margaret Gillespie, Mrs. Water-
house (both decked with some of Profes-
sor Waterhouse’s best camellias), Gordon
Turnbull, Mrs. Alan Foott, Mr. Manse-
field. The H. J. Bradys, Mrs. M. Munro
and the Maurice Gulsons and knight
Harry Moxham and his wife were noted ;
so was pretty girl Ruth Lawrie, a filmy
lace scarf around the shoulders of her
jacaranda-blue moire frock. Singer Carrie
Lanceley, Mrs. Todd Duncan, and
Daphne Rye, English producer, and Mrs.
Eric Wahlquist, Mrs. Sheila Whytock—
whose son Trader Faulkner is in the cast
—and actress Nan Taylor were other
applauders.
To the last note of the unforgettable
“Crucifixion,” steeped in a twilight of
sorrow, the whole of Todd Duncan’s re-
cital was followed with intensity by a
crowded Town Hall. There was quite a
crush of celebrities in the best seats.
Actor Robert Morley and his wife made
their places with about a minute to spare.
Sophie Stewart, leading lady in the Mor-
ley play “Edward, My Son,” and her hus-
band Ellis Irving, producer Daphne Rye,
as usual smiling happily, soprano Strella
Wilson, the Ernest Lashmars, Mrs. Todd
Duncan, Mrs. Arthur Tait, Mrs. E. J. Tait
and Frank Tait were in the audience.
Where would a “Story Book Ball” be
held but at Princes’? The Food for
Babies committee has certainly an eye
for detail. The invitations for this dance,
which will be held on September 19,
have been sent out in the form of a small
play-book. This is a younger committee
effort, and Shirley Gray is president of
what the card names “a rendezvous of
fairies, elves, gnomes and sprites.” You
have guessed it —the ball is a fantasy in
fancy dress.
There was great excitement at the
Girls’ Secondary Schools Club one night
last week. Occasion was a welcome-
home to the club’s popular secretary,
Mildred Rees, who has travelled not only
the Continent and England but has
chased about the length and breadth of
the U.S. and Canada in a luxury car skip-
pered by Bill De Sails, Australian Immi-
gration officer, formerly of Canberra and
now of New York. Also in the party
were Mrs. De Sails and small daughter
Adrienne and son Peter, The chief thrill
the other night was provided by Mildred
appearing complete in the war-paint in
which she had curtseyed to the King and
Queen at Buckingham Palace. Her after-
noon-frock, with its accompanying
jacket, was of the delicate shade known
in Chinese glazes as “sky-after-rain”
blue. Accompanying hat, handbag and
shoes were a deep shade of sapphire.
Daisy Richards, of the singing bow,
goes off to London in Ormonde on Sep-
tember 19. Daisy, who was a mem-
ber of the Sydney Symphony Orchestra
for some years, has given her talents in
the cause of many of this city’s charities.
Last Monday afternoon the Carlton re-
ception-rooms buzzed at the cocktail hour
with friends and admirers saying au
revoir and giving her a happy journey
gift. Photograph by Peter Pan.
The lads of St. Aloysius Military Cadet
Unit, captained by Leonard Skewes, are
having a night of nights tomorrow in the
Warringah Hall, Neutral Bay. The 0.C.,
the officers, n.c.os. and cadets are giving
a dance, and during the evening the unit
colors will be presented by Mrs. Bertie
Kelly.
Margaret Salenger sends word of
glorious days sightseeing in and around
Paris. After marvelling over Gobelin
and Beauvais tapestries, Sevres porce-
lains, and other treasures in palace and
castle, Margaret tells of gazing at
Napoleon’s bath, which is rather small.
The guide, piaybe sensing the disappoint-
ment of the party, said in broken
English: “Do not forget that, though
Napoleon was a great man, he was small
in stature.”
The N.S.W. Amateur Swimming
Association and the N.S.W. Women’s
Amateur Swimming Association are
holding a ball in the Grace Auditorium
tonight. The Lord Mayor and Mrs.
O’Dea will be present, and to them 12
debutantes will be presented.
From Melbourne
On a short visit here to con the possi-
bilities of community migration from the
U.K., Lord Fairfax was entertained by
the British Memorial Fund at a late-after-
noon party at the Lyceum Club. He was
welcomed by the president of the council
of the fund, Mr. Reynolds, M.L.A., and
members of the executive. The Premier,
T. Hollway, and Mrs. Hollway and
Minister of Immigration Calwell were
among the guests. Mrs. Hollway wore
a del-blue dressmaker suit, the skirt of
which was fully pleated, and a small
cloche hat in the same shade. Mrs. lan
Miller’s black frock was highlighted with
a red-and-white spotted scarf and a wide-
brimmed red felt chapeau. Pam Myer’s
black lace cocktail hat was trimmed with
pearls and worn with a smart black frock.
Mrs. A. Silk wore a tailored suit in olive-
green and a matching hat.
For her wedding at Christ Church to
John Alec Wishart, Sarah Raymond
Maxwell, daughter of Mr. and Mrs,
A. M. Maxwell, of Malaya and South
Yarra, wore a beautiful gown of ivory
poult-de-soie which had a tight-sleeved
fitted bodice veiled with Carrickmacross
lace mounted on tulle to form a train
falling from the shoulders. The exquisite
lace was sent out from England by Miss
Mary Granville, godmother of the bride’s
mother. The tulle veil was caught with a
wreath of orange-blossom, and a small
sheaf of miniature arum-lilies formed the
bouquet. Her sister Meg and the bride-
groom’s sister Mary were bridesmaids.
They carried sheafs of pale-yellow daf-
fodils with their frocks, which were of
taffeta in a deeper tone than the bridal
gown; half-circlets of daffodils were
arranged across the back of their hair.
The ’groom, who is the only son of
Rear-Admiral and Mrs. J. W. Wishart, of
St. Kilda-road, had James Craig, of
Sydney, as best man and the bride’s
brother Bill was groomsman. Receptio "
was held at the South Yarra home of
Mr, and Mrs. Douglas Felton,
Great satisfaction has been expressed
at the reappointment of Cr. J, S. Disney
as Lord Mayor for the second year, and
women are delighted at having Mrs.
Disney again as Lady Mayoress. During
her first term she had been an inspira-
tion to those who head the various charit-
able organisations of the city. Mrs.
Disney dresses with quiet elegance, has
charm of manner and loves her home,
her garden and working for her Suther-
land Homes for Destitute Children. In
this study she is wearing her favorite
Charles Creed suit of grey English tweed.
Mrs. W. F. Craig, who has been
appointed stewardess-in-chief of the
Homecrafts section of the Royal Mel-
bourne Show, has for 13 years been a
stewardess with the section. Her know-
ledge of Show matters goes back a long
way, for Mrs. Craig’s husband has been
assistant-secretary of the R.A.S. for over
30 years. Beginning on September 13,
Mrs. Craig will open, sort and label the
1770 entries in the Homecrafts section ;
when the Show is over she will be re-
sponsible for returning the entries to their
owners. While the Show is on, Mrs.
Craig will be in charge of the Homecrafts
Hall. She is an excellent dressmaker and
makes all her own clothes and those of
her schoolgirl daughter, who, at the
moment, is more interested in sport than
homecrafts.
Barty Mei lent his lovely Studley Park
home for the cocktail party at which
members of the Societa Nazionale Dante
Alighieri were guests. The reception-
rooms were filled with bowls of peach-
blossom, hydrangeas and crimson roses.
Mrs. George Santoro, wife of the presi-
dent of the Societa, wore a bouffant frock
of black taffeta; a pastel-blue ostrich-
feather trimmed her small black hat.
Mrs. S. DeMarco had roses to form
the small halo which toned with her
squirrel coat. Mrs. C. Mattei combined
black in frock and wide-brimmed hat with
blue-fox cape; her daughter Beatrice’s
ballerina frock was of shot-green taffeta.
Mrs. Peter Picci’s silk frock was in muted
brown and grey floral tonings. Joy
Foster’s black frock, with its touches of
blue, was worn under a swinging beige
alpaca coat. Pat Whittam was in a
dusty-pink jacket-suit and a blue bonnet
trimmed with a pink feather.
Mrs, Margaret Saker, organiser of the
Miss Australia Quest, introduced Miss
Children’s Hospital, Margaret Lawrence,
to guests at the Dubarry Spring Fashion
Parade, proceeds of which will go to assist
the candidate’s campaign. Mrs. Wallace
Mitchell was organiser and was assisted
by Mrs. S, Aarons, who wore a burgundy
suit and a toast-toned straw hat with lily-
of-the-valley trimming, and Mrs. L.
Green, whose junior-navy blue suit had
for company a white hat with a frill of
navy tulle. Mrs. Margaret Saker wore a
grey tweed suit; her matching hat was
trimmed with veiling. Margaret Lawrence
added a small white hat to her
trim junior-navy frock. An off-the-face
taffeta hat gave smart effect to Mrs. A.
Elford’s junior-navy jacket-suit. Mrs.
A. Fowler’s American Beauty suit was
worn with a black hat and accessories.
A cerise corded-ve]vet jacket, black frock
and hat comprised Mrs. Edward Camp-
bell’s contribution to the sartorial scene.
The marriage of Diana Fay, elder
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. John Storey,
of East Malvern, and Ralph Steven,
younger son of Baron and Baroness von
Kohorn Zu Kornegg, of New York, was
celebrated at St. John’s Church, Toorak.
White ribbon bows were tied on the pews,
and white and yellow spring flowers
decorated chancel and pulpit. The
service was choral, with aborigine tenor
Harold Blair as soloist. The bride’s
classical gown was of white French bro-
caded slipper-satin made with a long
train; her full-length tulle veil fell from
a headdress of white satin and seed pearls.
Joyce Blanchi, of Sydney, Rhonda Lane,
Faye Doughton and Marjorie Collard
were bridesmaids. They wore strapless
frocks of magnolia satin with short, flare-
back jackets and matching tulle head-
dresses, and carried orchids in the same
shade. Hugh Wallace Smith was best
man ; the bride’s brother Keith, Richard
Boynton and K. M. Thompson were
ushers. Reception was at the Australia.
With sunshine and showers alternating
at the first of the spring meetings at Caul-
field, most women racegoers decided
against chancing rainspots on the new
season’s hats. Smartly tailored in black
and with black ospreys trimming her
black hat, Mrs. Norman Robinson, wife
of the V.A.T.C. chairman, entertained at
a luncheon party. Included among her
guests were Mrs. J. S. Sauer, wearing a
brown beaver coat and small feather-
trimmed matching hat, Mrs. R. S. Ramey,
in grey suit and royal-blue hat trimmed
with matching feather-wings, and Mrs.
F. W. Gillespie, wife of the U.S. Army
Air Force Attache, whose brown beaver
coat was worn over a brown frock and
with a small brown hat featuring a trim-
ming of gold braid. With Mrs. H. Way
was Mrs. L. C. Kemp, her small hat with
its pink feather-trimming worn with a
black suit. Mrs. Con Charlton garnished
her check suit with a brown musquash
coat. Mrs. W. Rowell’s black coat had
a silver-fox fur collar; black-and-white-
striped taffeta ribbon trimmed her small
black hat. Mrs. W. B. Faulkner’s black
hat flew ospreys; her black coat had
black Persian-lamb trimming. Mrs. Yott
Murray, of Adelaide, had sage-green
feathers in the brown hat she wore with
a brown tweed coat. Lady Snow, who
contrasted her grey suit with a brown hat
and accessories, was with Mrs. Norman
Shepherd, whose scarlet beret was worn
with a navy suit. A caramel jacket-suit
and mustard felt hat lent a chic effect to
Mrs. Charles Davis.
This year. Navy Week coincides with
the visit of both New Zealand and R.A.N.
squadrons, and plans are being made for
a Naval Week Ball, to be held at Earl’s
Court, St. Kilda, on October 27. Pro-
ceeds from it will swell the funds for the
R.A.N, Memorial Chapel Appeal for the
building of a chapel at the Flinders Naval
Depot for the C. of E. and other Pro-
testant denominations. The initial meet-
ing oLthe ball committee was held in
the portico-room at the Town Hall, and
the Lady Mayoress, Mrs. J. S. Disney,
has consented to be one of the
patronesses. Wife of the Second Naval
Member, Mrs. H. A. Showers, presided,
and Commodore W. A. Dellmyer outlined
a few suggestions from the Navy. Vice-
presidents are the Angliss lady and Mes-
dames Wallace Mitchell, C. T. M. Pizey
and W. Seymour. At the ball girls will
dance the sailor’s hornpipe and men from
the Flinders Naval Depot will give an
exhibition of tumbling. Ticket-secretaries
are Mesdames Norman Spry and Gordon
Darling. To help defray expenses Mrs.
Wallace Mitchell is organising a dinner-
dance at Frankston’s Grand Hotel on a
date still to be arranged.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO MARGARET SMITHENBECKER late
of Albury New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that JOHN FREDERICK
SMITHENBECKER has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 4433 of 1948 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registu
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
16th November 1949 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from
MESSRS. TIETYENS ANGEL & JACK-
LING, Solicitors, Albury, or their City
Agents, MESSRS. H. D. McLACHLAN,
CHILTON & CO., Solicitors, 14 Martin
Place, Sydney.—(l.s.) J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM RICHARD BEATTIE.--
TAKE NOTICE that EMILY MACK
BEATTIE has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2277 of 1949 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend the suit you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 31st
October 1949 and obtain a copy of the
Petition free of charge from W. "•
HOLMES, Solicitor, 39 Martin Place,
Sydney.—(L.s.) J. DOUGHAN, Registrar
in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ARTHUR CHARLES HUNGERFORD
late of Pokolbin.—TAKE NOTICE that
NELLIE HUNGERFORD has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 4684 of 1948 on
the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by th
25th November 1949 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from
HALSE MILLETT WALLMAN &
Solicitors, 18 Martin Place, Sydney.
(1.5.) J. DOUGHAN, Registrar in Divorce,
Missing Friends.
WOULD LEONARD
of West Coast, South Island, New Zealand,
and last heard of in Sydney about W-W
or anyone knowing his present wn
abouts, please communicate with “
DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Grey
mouth, New Zealand. __—,
WOULD any person knowing the where-
abouts of KEITH ALEXANDER FOSTER,
late of South Yarra, East Melbourne an
Richmond, but now of parts unknown,
please communicate with Messrs. *'•
JONES & KENNEDY, Solicitors,
Nicholson Street, Footscray.
THE SERVICE MAN
Puzzle in Belgrade.
“Ek Dum”: With their usual
delightful precision, the experts
of the morning Press last week
disposed Russian forces along
the Yugoslav borders of Hungary
and Rumania on the natural
military approaches to that
country from the north.
On the Hungarian approach,
the assembly region is supposed
to be Mohacs, which is on the
main road and rail from Buda-
Pesth to Belgrade, a few miles
from the Yugoslav border. From
there to Belgrade is an unin-
spiring, flat road, sometimes
abutted by oak forests, and all
the way infested with Croats and
Serbs. The road runs between
the river Danube and its feeder,
the Save, and the main obstacle
across it is the Drave. Eventu-
ally it reaches Belgrade at a
point where the Save and the
Danube meet. The Danube is
there a broad treacherous-look-
ing stream, faster and muddier
than it is when it flows between
the low banks at Mohacs. The
road reaches the rivers on the
wrong side of Belgrade from an
enemy’s point of view, but no
doubt the invading army will
board the ferry at Zemun, and
sip its slivovitza in comfort as it
is wafted down to the assault on
the Yugoslavian capital—Bel-
grade ferries used to carry a
captain and a commander;
under Socialism they probably
have a couple of admirals as
well.
The other approach along
which the Russians are said to
be gathering in on the Timisoara
network of roads and railways in
Rumania, about 8Q miles as the
crow flies slightly east of north
from Belgrade. This approach
also is on the wrong side of the
river from Belgrade. However,
the Russians are not likely to
worry about a little thing like
the Danube. They will arrange
for special correspondents to
show their troops how to slide
silently across the river in the
dead of night on sheets of gal-
vanised-iron, as the Russians did
(according to the Sydney Press)
in their unparalleled assault on
Stalingrad after having secretly
assembled a million or so troops
on a plain on which a flattened
rabbit couldn’t hide.
Five Armored Divisions!
There are naturally precise
particulars available as to the
forces which the Russians have
deployed. The United Press
correspondent at Belgrade an-
nounced on September 1 that
two Russian armored divisions
had taken mp positions at Timi-
soara within 48 hours, and that
at the weekend three armored
divisions were reported in
Hungary near the Yugoslav
border. Summing up, the cor-
respondent added:
Detailed information based on con-
firmed intelligence reports is that at
least 50,000 Russian troops and 500
tanks are drawn up in an arc 150
miles long.. . .round Yugoslavia’s
northern borders.
The fact must be, if there are
five armored divisions—which is
a very large force indeed occupy-
ing about 350 miles of road in
motion, if the divisions are what
they ought to be —there must be
nearer 2500 tanks in the vicinity
and, with all ancillaries, at least
150,000 men, and Heaven alone
knows what else besides in the
way of lines of communication
and air-cover.
Meanwhile, the only overt acts
by either side consist in an ex-
change of increasingly-heated
Notes. The Russian ones are
both abusive and threatening.
Tito’s are merely abusive, but
guardedly so. Moscow is giving
all the publicity it possibly can
to the exchanges, and the
Moscow populace is reported to
be excited every time one of
them is broadcast oyer the street
loudspeaker system.
Belgrade is going about its
normal business, which consists
(if it hasn’t changed in the last
few years) in attending funerals,
drinking hard liquor of the most
depressing nature and worming a
few dinars out of tourists by
taking them to see, from a
distance, the window out of
which the defunct remains of
Queen Draga, garbed in a night-
dress, were flung by her assassins.
Diplomatic Opinion
That the various diplomatic
services do not share the alarm
of the expert correspondents does
not necessarily mean that there
is no cause for alarm, or that
the opinions expressed in
diplomatic circles are rightly
oriented.
Mr. Dean Acheson, Secretary
of State in the United States,
says that what is happening is
part of the war of nerves, and
the sober-minded Vienna cor-
respondent of the London
“Daily Telegraph” holds the
same view. This may be true,
but there are other possibilities
to be considered, having regard
to the nature and methods of
Communism, which have been
outlined by Brigadier Howley,
lately commandant in the U.S.
Zone of Berlin —“there is no
truth in them.”
The other possibilities are:
(1) Titp, a Red Army officer, is
working in unison with Moscow to
give Moscow a chance to enter
Yugoslavia and drive a force to the
borders of Italy and Greece, where
direct liaison could be made with
Togliatti’s thugs in Italy and the
Greek guerrillas, who are now wilting
under the attacks of the newly-armed
Greek Army.
(2) Tito and Stalin are putting up
a show in order to trick the Western
Powers into accepting Tito as a
brother, giving him supplies and their
confidence for the general benefit of
the Russian bloc.
(3) Kardelj and General Rankovitch
have really become anathema to the
Cominform, as appears on the sur-
face, and what is happening is merely
a play between other leaders of the
Cominform and the Yugoslav Com-
munist party to get rid of the
People’s Front which governs Yugo-
slavia and replace it, as in Hungary,
with a full-fledged Communist
Government stripped of all other
elements.
A New Cominform
Now a new possibility has
arisen through a suggestion—
straight from the Belgrade
horse’s mouth —that Tito pro-
poses to form a Cominform of
his own in the West.
This is the most intriguing
scheme of the lot. It suggests,
indeed, the technique by which
Communism was established in
the Far East.
First a Pan-Pacific Trade-
union Secretariat was formed.
Then the leading Communist in
Australia, J. S. Garden, after a
visit to this country of a Moscow
delegate named Rubanoff, osten-
sibly quarrelled with the Com-
munist party (whose papers de-
scribed him as a “putrid rat”
and the “most vicious mounte-
bank in Australia”).
This supposed break with the
Communists enabled him to join
with Mr. E. J. Holloway and
others to work under the
wing of the A.C.T.U., which in-
vited all the Communists of the
Pacific to visit Australia for a
conference. Like Tito, during
this period, Garden loudly pro-
claimed that he was “as good
a Communist as ever,” but this
did not prevent “moderate
Labor” equivalent to the
Western nations in the Tito
affair —from taking him up and
making him its chief political
organiser.
Next, the Communist parties
of the Pacific and China were
organised with loud protestations
that they were quite a different
kind of Communist to the
Moscow brand, and that they
had no association with Moscow.
After the Pan-Pacific Secre-
tariat had been established it was
discovered (a) that Garden was
a Communist all the time, and
that Moscow had been support-
ing him behind the scenes, ( b )
that Moscow was the actual or-
ganiser of the move to com-
munise the East and Pacific
colonial areas.
Out of these moves, started in
1926, have come the Chinese
revolution, the Indonesian situa-
tion, the Malayan and Burmese
troubles and indirectly the final
breakaway of India from the
British Empire, since it was the
Communists, more than any
other, who initiated and main-
tained the hurricane of news-
paper propaganda which ensured
that schism. In Australia, the
propaganda for freeing India
was almost wholly generated by
the Communist party through the
unions, and its helot “intellec-
tuals” and parlor-pink editors.
When the purposes of the
various “independent” move-
ments in China were nearly
realised, their Moscow connec-
tions were revealed. It is, there-
fore, possible that there is some-
thing in the newest suggestions
as to the background of the
Yugoslav situation, especially
since it follows the curiously
sudden death of Dmitrov, former
head of the Comintern.
The Kremlin may easily have
argued: We have become dis-
credited in the West. Our name
is mud. A Moscow Comintern
could never again achieve suc-
cess in the United States,
Canada and Britain. To form
“You can come down now, Carstairs — he's quite dead."
one would be to destroy the
Communist parties there. There-
fore, we must have a western
Comintern, which will not be
associated in the public mind
with Russian domination.
They may have been en-
couraged in this viewpoint by
the fact that such bodies as the
Australian Labor party have
pledged themselves to gain the
world ends of Labor by inter-
national action—this was done
by the Federal A.L.P. in 1944,
and the resolutions have never
been annulled.
So a quarrel with Tito is
staged, very like the apparently
savage quarrel between Garden
and the Communist party in
1926-36 —and the pleasant but
tortuous scheme is proceeded
with.
It is not likely to get very
far, if that is the case. The
world knows more about Com-
munism than it did a few years
ago.
Beauty in Battle.
“Ek Dum”: With the advent
of the new British battle uniform
—“combat suit” it is termed in
the argot of the military bureau-
cracy—the glory of armies seems
to have finally departed.
The British soldier has never
worried much about bis appear-
ance save as a matter of spit-and-
polish discipline, but he has never
before looked as he may be ex-
pected to look in the next war.
Comfortable the new rig may
or may not be, but beautiful it
certainly is not. It makes the
wearer look like something be-
tween a ghost out of a moving-
picture of Amundsen’s dash to
the pole and a Venezuelan con-
vict on a wet day.
Surmounting the handsome—
but not open—countenance of
the new Socialist warrior is a
peaked cap which comes right
down over the nose and looks as
if Sherlock Holmes had invented
it for use on a ski-ing holiday.
It is copied apparently from the
headgear of Rommel’s Afrika-
korps. It is made of “water-
repellent” material, and in ap-
pearance, judging by the photo-
graph of it, it is also repellent
in every other sense.
The remainder of the battling
Tommy’s outfit consists of a
smock —similar to the airborne
smock, and presumably designed
with the probability that most
attackers may in future arrive
with a loud shout from the ether
—and a pair of pants. These
cover a multitude of sins which
would shock the “Tailor and
Cutter.”
The smock has a zip-fastener,
and it is an ample affair —fitted
to become a veritable wardrobe,
in fact. South African veterans
will regard it with tears in their
eyes. A whole fowlyard and a
cask of rum and the burgher’s
daughter could be hidden under
it.
In warm weather the suit can
be worn with only vest and pants
underneath the smock and with
the neck open and sleeves rolled
up.
On the plains of Russia, how-
ever, with the temperature at
zero, shirt, pullover and short
great-coat can be put on under-
neath. In fact, if it really gets
cold, the swaddy can even get
his normal “battle dress,” which
is not to be confused with his
“combat suit,” on under the
latter outfit.
The short great-coat which is
provided is similar to the war-
time “jeep-coat.” Like the
“combat suit” it is made of
waterproof material, and it has
a warm woollen lining.
There are two other features
about the combat suit —all high
leather boots, like something out
of an opera, and a poncho,
which is described graphically
by the War Office as a “South
American Spanish type of cloak”
—to wit, a piece of mackintosh
gabardine with a hole in the
middle through which the
wearer pushes his head.
“Battle dress,” as worn now,
has been brightened up a little.
It will be normal peace-time
wear —“that part of the new
range of clothing to be retained
as a solution of the problem of
how to provide for the many
occasions, even in war, when a
reasonably smart form of dress
is required” (“Times”).
On ceremonial parades, or in
company with his girl, the well-
dressed warrior will appear in
“battle dress” which has been
given a colored beret, a lapel
collar and less prominent pockets
on the trouser legs that appeared
in the old version. He can wear
it under his combat suit if he
doesn’t like the look of it.
The new outfits would stagger
Wellington, accustomed as he
was to the strange makeshifts of
the Peninsula, and little as he
cared for uniform.
In a world in which London
police have been put into R.A.F.
shirts and begun to wear ties and
collars, however, change must be
expected.
In China.
This week’s news from China
was limited mainly because the
advancing Communists were in
a sort of no-man’s land in which
there were no important objec-
tives and because they were
meeting with little or no resist-
ance.
There is no obstacle to the
advance on Canton which is not
purely geographical. What
forces the Nationalists have will
be concentrated for the defence
of the city and the area between
it and Swatow, where the last
helping of 40,000 of their
“troops” are aligned.
The whole of the area round
and west and south of the Can-
ton River is already riddled with
Communist guerrillas who are
operating in preparation for the
arrival of the main Communist
armies under General Liu Po-
chen.
At the week-end Communist
troops were reported only 30
miles from the Hong Kong
mainland border, but in view
of the fact that there are
guerrillas in the vicinity the in-
formation needed confirmation.
The advance of the Com-
munists on Canton will prob-
ably be along the East River
from Waichow.
The next real news will come
either from American action in
Formosa or from the Com-
munist arrival in Amoy and/or
Canton. Meantime, preparations
go ahead apace in Hong Kong.
The anniversary of the out-
break of World War II was
little remembered in Australia
except by the devoted and un-
fortunate Polish exiles who have,
perforce, become Australians.
While the rest of the “victorious”
Western Allies have good cause
to bemoan what has happened
to their countries under the
New Socialism, the Poles no
longer have any country to
mourn. They lost everything,
though their brigades and sea-
men fought in almost every part
of the globe to the bitter end.
General Anders’s troops almost
completed a circle —from the
Polish border of Germany round
through Africa to the Elbe, and
they were longer in the fighting
war than any other Allied
troops.
A little further information
has been released about the new
British Canberra twin-engined
bomber which is under test as
the first of the new British era.
It is 65ft. 6in. in length, has a
wing-span of 64ft. and a height
of 15ft. 7in. The nose-wheels
retract backwards into the
fuselage and the single-leg main
units go sideways into the wings.
The fuselage is circular in sec-
tion, completely free of ex-
crescences, radio-aerials being
internal. The machine is a mid-
wing type, with squared top
single fin and rudder and very
broad wings tapering toward the
tips. It is obviously a very
high-speed, high-altitude job.


iiiipi
»i
* ■
K; :v <i
mmmmm
m
ipii
■
' 'I
!. fe ; f.
*-
* • J
; x
: 1
;d : 'd •
mms
ill ill
.. ssssis*
■
1111111111
iliWiii
MS®
|lil
mmmmm
mm
iliiiii
<•.: g%as£& x •
S :
I '
:
’
.
vX-xS:
i ; v
iiililiillSiiiS*
&@Sg %V N •<£✓>• Vktf-ft «BSsaS
■■■ • . ■■■ ■■ .. i
: I
s
' ' s|
XisSfSiS
mi
i: ■'.
HHg|
li*
■ ■
;
iliiiii
£{£%:& -' mm
: li iil I
; : -
mm
THE MEMBER FIRMS
The Churchill Machine Tool Co, Ltd.
~. • ■ ■; lid.
WARD
s ...g f g
up
MBMI
;
' '
SSIS
J. Parkinson & Son
George Richards & Co. Ltd.
N, W. Ward & Co. Ltd.
CHURCHILL
omti*ALmis
■■ ■ .
plpliili
th
La
thes
t r e
La
r e t
T
❖SX ■
:s t a
I I
M
P 1
G
p r e
e s
m
M
11
C
M
ill
dll
M
S I otte
r s
Sh
e s
PARKtNiWi
M
Screwing
lilii
mm
■
iliiiii
?• :./ v<. w
■in
f
ill
»» av,
:
1 x
Ilii
Iliiiii
■ i
BUTLER
WW&/S
-i
:d.: Xv; ;j
Ipll
••••I;-
mm
m
mm
RiNDALL Sc GENT
li
■
1 I
P?®isPilil
fcSSO CUTEO»ACH.MEJOO^O E()Ts
I:
X W
UMITIO
SYDNEY ADELAIDE PERTH
ridiii H ELBOU RNE


CO
w
/T
' | IHi
t ' 5
®Ss4
J
3"
wiHliimummni
zr
-■r
«i
'im-m.
W&
SS
Meeiinq
an old friend
is always a
pleasurable
. /
occasion ,
dsf
THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
•
Under
STATE GUARANTEE.
•
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
•
Writi or Call for
Free Booklet
19 O’Connell Street
(Box 7A, G.P.0.), Sydney.
P. 3. P. Pullen, Public Trustee.
0*
SL
jV/1
if 3 ?
'^|
Hr:
*s
ss# K
’
kismet
MASTER
FOOT PUMP
KBNKUT
HAND PUMP
KISMET
TYRE GAUGE
Made by William Turner (Kismet), Ltd.,
Sheffield, England.
Representative in. Australia: p BoX 71.
Mr. E. G. Jones, 43-49 Hardware St., Melbourne, C.l, Victoria, h-r- ■ __
K.IS'MET
What’s the value of a tyre gauge? If it 1BI)
accurate, it’s worthless. If it is accurate —and made
to stay accurate —it’s worth every penny of its cost.
That’s the Kismet for you . . . truthful every time
. . . which means a properly balanced car, comfort-
able to ride in, safe and easy to drive.
AND what price a Foot Pump? Or a Hand Pump?
Just ask your Garage Man to let you try a Kismet.
See how easily its double-cylinder action inflates a
tyre! Then examine it closely .. . note the fine,
solid Sheffield workmanship.
You’ll never grudge the little more you pay for a
Kismet product. It comes back to you in extra years
of real service.
SUNDRY SHOWS
“Annie Get Your Gun” has
finally wound up its marathon
run at Sydney Royal and been
replaced by “Fly Away Peter,”
one of those family-pieces which
is saved to some extent from
its similarity to all the other
family - pieces on stage and
screen by its light humor and
the comedic talent of J. H.
Roberts as father of the Hap-
good family (he is also the pro-
ducer of the show) and Pamela
Bygrave as the younger
daughter, a child who, in real-
life, would probably deserve
squashing by a steamroller, but
who, at the comfortable distance
of the stage, often contrives to
be sufficiently amusing to save
the show from its general senti-
mentality.
The theme of “Fly Away
Peter” hangs on a mother’s ex-
cessive devotion to her children,
a feeling which turns to a sel-
fish reluctance to part with
them when they wish to break
away from home and start
living their own lives. The
children —a son who wants to
go off to Africa, a daughter
who wants to get married and
go to Norway, another son who
gets a girl into trouble and
wants to marry her, and another
daughter who also wants to
marry, but feels bound to re-
main with her mother —are
satisfactorily played by Kevin
Miles, June Jago, Trader Faulk-
ner and Pamela Bygrave respec-
tively ; Beatrice Smith is the
mother, her brisk efficiency well
in keeping with the character,
although a shade more emphasis
on the possessive streak of her
nature would have strengthened
the portrait. Without hurling it
at the audience, Roberts, as the
father, manages to let enough
emotion slip past his dry drol-
lery to make the character
human, and is mainly respons-
ible for sustaining the whole
play at its lightly amusing level.
* * * *
If Mr. Conde would put on
his blackout act instead of
Fifi Banvard’s third, Sydney
Minerva’s “See How They
Run” would probably run a lot
longer. Up to the third act
Aileen Britton’s freshly uncon-
ventional vicar’s wife and her
equally nonconforming actor-
friend Grant Taylor boost the
nonsense along rapidly enough.
And when both clear off to a
neighboring English village on
an escapade which is obviously
to result in scandalous compli-
cations they leave the stage to
the competent clowning of the
village spinster (Daphne Win-
slow) and the vicar’s house-
maid (Gwen Plumb). With a
real enough escaped German
p.-0.-w. (Syd Loder), a bishop
(Lou Vernon), another parson
(William Redmond) and a ner-
vously overacted patrolling
Army sergeant (Alan Herbert)
projected into the overladen
scene the production gets out of
hand. The last act degenerates
into slapstick, vicar, bishop,
actor-friend and p.-0.-w. chas-
ing each other across stage, out
and back again in a weary cycle
of buffoonery.
* * * *
Negro baritone Todd Duncan
opened his Sydney recitals with
two unusual songs: Secchi’s
“Love Me or Not” and J. W.
Franck’s “Let Us Praise the
Lord” —the latter sung with an
effective restrained fervor. A
ringing resonance beat about the
aria “O Nadir” from Bizet’s
“The Pearl Fishers”—this was
magnificent singing. A Schubert
group included a dramatic
reading of “Der Erlkonig” and
a “Wohin?” which had more
bantering humor than is usually
given it. Moussorgsky’s “The
Seminarist,” that diverting and
witty song about a student being
obliged to live, as punishment,
with Latin nouns instead of with
the schoolmaster’s charming
daughter, was invested with rich
comedy. The group of negro
spirituals ranged from grave to
gay, all sung brilliantly. The
recital closed with “The Cruci-
fixion,” sung unaccompanied. A
dropped pin would have sounded
like a crowbar. William Allen
was an excellent accompanist,
* * * *
Otto Klemperer, the giant
conductor, gave another demon-
stration of his ability to electrify
an orchestra when he conducted
the Victorian Symphony
Orchestra through Beethoven’s
Seventh. Wagner having dubbed
it the apotheosis of the dance
nobody can now see it except in
his terms, though the glorious
slow movement might just as
well be called meditative.
Beethoven was probably pour-
ing some happiness in his pri-
vate life into his music. Klem-
perer made it a dance of the
spirit. Rudolf Schock was
heard in “Dalla Sua Pace” and
“II Mio Tesoro” from “Don
Giovanni.” His clear, bright,
mellifluous but somewhat light
tenor was admirably adapted to
the clean line of the Mozart
items;
* * * *
Honegger’s “King David,” a
Biblical oratorio, was given its
first Sydney hearing with the
Sydney Symphony Orchestra
under Bernard Heinze, the Hurl-
stone Choral Society and
Eleanor Houston, Florence Tay-
lor and Ronald Dowd as
soloists. The soloists sang
spiritedly and well, and the
choruses were given’with weight
and admirable judgment. Cesar
Franck’s D Minor Symphony —
a passionately sincere work
of fine craftsmanship and
Mozart’s sparkling “Cosi Fan
Tutti” Overture benefited from
orchestral playing of precision
and no little warmth.
* * * *
Joan Hammond’s singing, at
Melbourne Town Hall, of a wide
range of operatic numbers, from
the “Voi lo Sapete” from “C.
Rusticana” to the “Casta Diva”
from “Norma,” suggested that
she could be usefully kept in
Australia for the purposes of the
approaching grand-opera sea-
son. She was equally at home
in “Oliver Cromwell,” a delight-
ful nursery rhyme from Suffolk,
and the popular “Rose of Sum-
mer,” which brought a por-
tentous sigh of gratification
from a large house.
* * * *
As well as being a sensitive
Beethoven player —he played the
difficult Op. 109 sonata at his
concert at Melbourne Assembly
Hall Raymond O’Connell
showed an unusual delicacy in
his Brahms panel and a versa-
tility of mood in his Chopin,
Ravel and Debussy. He was
probably at his best, however, in
steering a course through the
architectural intricacies of the
Bach-Busoni Chaconne, beloved
of violinists but equally effec-
tive in the piano arrangement.
* * * *
Fifteen Old Master paintings
of the Italian, Flemish and Eng-
lish schools of the 14th to 18th
century, mostly from a Mel-
bourne collection, are hanging at
Joshua McClelland’s print-room.
The most noteworthy—from the
collection of a nephew of the late
Emperor Franz Josef —is a
landscape outside an inn with a
village in the distance. It is
attributed to David Teniers the
Younger and has some of the
quality of that artist. A land-
scape with villagers skating on a
pond and attributed to a member
of the school of Breughel has
nothing of that master in it ex-
cept the subject-matter. There
is nothing really bad, however,
in the exhibition. They were all
painted in the days when there
was a great tradition and the
artist was at least a craftsman.
* * * *
“Joan of Arc” (Sydney Cen-
tury) ; A tremendous technicolor
parade relieved occasionally by
spots of sincere acting from In-
grid Bergman as the Maid and
by neat, clever portraits from
such supporting players as Fran-
cis Sullivan, Jose Ferrer, J.
Carroll Naish and other
veterans.
♦ * * *
“London Belongs to Me”
(Sydney Tatler): A leisurely
comedy of characters with Alis-
tair Sim turning in a topnotch
portrait of an unctuous fake
medium and Richard Atten-
borough as the young man who
drifts into shady ways and
finishes up facing a murder
charge. The plot is slight and
drawn out, but the people—the
lodging-house keeper, the re-
tired clerk, the hat-check “girl,”
the Judge, the lawyers, etc. —
are all worth inspection.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy copy of Thirty Years of
an Artist’s Life by Amy B. Lambert.
—4684.
To buy copy of “Popular
Mechanics” for September, 1948.
4685.
Words of poem “The Wreck of the
Brunkencrungercrob.”—4686.
Information Sought.
Who comprised the “silver-fork'’
school in English literature, and how
did it get its name?
It was the name given to a class
of English novelists who gave undue
importance to etiquette and the ex-
ternals of social intercourse. The
most distinguished were Lady Bles-
sington (1789-1849), Theodore Hook
(1716-1796), Lord Lytton (1804-1873),
Mrs. Trollope (1790-1863) and Lord
Beaconsfield (1804-1881).
* * * *
What was the Porteous Riot .'
At Edinburgh, in September, 1736,
R. C. Porteous was captain pf the
city guard, and, at the execution of
a smuggler named Wilson, ordered
the guards to fire on the mob, which
had become tumultuous. Six per-
sons were killed and eleven wounded.
Porteous was condemned to death,
but reprieved, whereupon the mob
burst into the jail where he was con-
fined, and, dragging him to the
Grassmarket (the usual place of
execution), hanged him by torchlight
on a barber’s pole. Scott introduces
the riot in his Heart of Midlothian.
* * * *
Is Syria a republic, and what is its
form of government ?
Syria, which had been under
French mandate since the 1914-18
war, became an independent republic
during the 1939-45 war. The first
independently-elected Parliament met
on August 17, 1943, but foreign
troops were in part-occupation until
April, 1946, when their withdrawal
marked the complete independence of
the republic, which is a member of
the United Nations and the Arab
League. There is a single-chamber
Assembly, which is elected by direct
vote. The Assembly elects the Presi-
dent.
Brief Answers.
P.H.: Write Commonwealth Defence
Research Laboratory, Burnie-avenue,
Lidcombe (N.S.W.)... .S.H.H.: Write
N.S.W. Agricultural Dept., Sydney,
for Miscellaneous Publication, No.
3351, “Spraying Tests with Selective
Hormone-type Weedicides”... .M.M.:
Write Cement and Concrete Associa-
tion of Australia, 14 Spring-street,
Sydney E.M.I.: A statement giv-
ing full details of the transaction
should be attached to the taxpayer’s
return of income for the year ended
June 30, 1947. The amount (if any)
of the consideration received on the
sale of the property to be included
in the assessable income will then be
determined. An explanation of the
method of arriving at this amount
will be forwarded with taxpayer’s
assessment notice fdr the year
A.A.; The verse “Wonga” was writ-
ten by Lex McLennan, and appears
in his book The Spirit of the West.
E.G.B.: Dr. J. S. Elkington’s
address is “Sandspit,” Mooloolaba,
via Woombye (Q.) C.N-McL.: Jim
Carroll was A.B.C. commentator for
Peter Pan’s second Melbourne Cup
win in 1934. Eric Welch was the
commentator for the previous Mel-
bourne Cup in 1933, won by Hall-
mark. Eric Welch also described
Peter Pan’s 1932 win G. 8.; A
biography of him will be found in
any of the standard encyclopaedias
or in Chambers’s or Webster’s bio-
graphical dictionaries C.G.: The
addresses of the two newspapers are
“The New York Age,” 230 West
135th-street, New York, N.Y., and
“The Afro-American,” 1800 11th-
street, N.W., Washington, D.C.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDEN
Name and address must appear on the
MS. No liability is undertaken ra
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS, should be
addressed to the Editor,
N.M.: The violence outweighs
the theme... .M.C.: To think such
poor little tiny weak things came all
the way out here from England!....
J. 5.8.: “Old Man With a Key”
doesn’t get in R.A.; No sorrow-
ful dogs admitted You
might get somewhere with your slang-
whang Sydney hearties, but you have
a long way to g 0... .P.R.E.: Your
old “Six-shilling Mare” ain’t what
she oughta be... .G.8.5.G.: No use
for human-geometry stories, especially
when accompanied by violence....
S.M.M.: If true, your cedar-cutters
might make a paragraph, or a story
by someone else... .J.E.O’L.; Poor
old Dad S.H.H.: “Dawn” didn’t
show us much... .L.H.D.; We'd
rather read Dr. Vlekke’s b00k....
G.G.: Preferred your previous draft
of “Island Interlude” —why not try
it somewhere else? R.J.8.: You'd
be surprised at the number of poems
about death in the desert that have
done a perish in George-street....
0.P.: Take a No. 1 iron to “Golf”
and see how far you can hit it—
A.L.A.: You seem to know some-
thing about sheep, but your jig-jog
metre and forced rhymes defeat you.


TARPAULINS
UNUSUAL OFFER i
Ex-U.S. Army. Genuine
“Cable Duck.” 100%
Water and Rot-proof.
Completely Eyeletted.
Brand New. Perfectly
made. '
Satisfaction guaranteed.
Worth Double These
Prices W
Stocks limited. Order now.
10 X 8 ea. £3/12/6
12 X 10 ea. £4/15/0
15 X 12 ea. £7/7/0
18 X 12 ea. £9/5/0
18 X 16 ea. £lO/19/6
21 x 15 ea. £l2/7/6
21 X 18 ea. £l6/17/6
Free cartage to rail or boat.
Here's an Extra Special!
BRAND NEW HEAVY WHITE DRILL
SHORTS! ex-r.a.n. SHORTS!
Perfectly made. Sizes 32in. and 34in.
only. For tennis, beachwear, campers,
etc. Definitely worth double this
price. Yours for only, pair
7/11
MARQUEES!
ANOTHER SENSATIONAL AMERICAN
CABLE-DUCK SPECIAL!
The finest shaped top Marquee made today.
SPECIFICATIONS;
TOP, 100 per cent, waterproof and rotproof; colour. Green.
WALLS, 1 White Duck; the whole job absolutely water-
proof. Complete with ropes, poles, pegs, slides and valise.
TWO SIZES ONLY TO CLEAR.
12 x 12 (complete). £25/-/-
15 x 15 (complete) ......... £37/-/-
These prices defy competition.
We pay cartage to rail or boat on all advertised lines.
P & L TRADING CO.
250 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
RIGHT NEXT DOOR TO “BULLETIN OFFICE.”
Take advantage of these genuine bargains by ordering
immediately. Include cheque, money order or postal notes
when writing. No C.O.D. Please mention "The Bulletin.”
SMOKERS
PIPE TOBACCOS THAT ARE
BLENDED TO GIVE
SATISFACTION TO ALL.
BLOUSE OF MURPHY, A blend of
the highest grade of leaf to give a
cool smoke of satisfaction that men
prefer. 22/- per lb. Posted.
A. A. A, HILXTOP. A blend of
Australian, American and African.
20/- per lb. Posted.
WINSTON READY RUBBED
CIGARETTE TOBACCO. Greatly
improved by better blending of
mature leaf. 24/- per lb. Posted.
Special Quotes to Retailers for lots iOlb.
weight or over.
Write to: Cash Order Dept,,
Hillman Trading Co.,
Commercial Road, Brisbane*
Postape paid on Cash with order.
Postage extra on C.O.D. Orders,
Sorca caused oy
chafing napkin*
are soon healed by Cuticura
Stops itching
and irritation and assures
undisturbed sleep.' Anti*
septic . Cuticura "cannot
harm baby’s tender skin.
One of the famous trio-
Cuticura Ointment. • Soap
and Talcum I’owder.
534
M
u
m
IL_LLJ
Ancestors of
an Industry
Sir William Ramsay was the discoverer
of a whole new family of elements —an achieve*
ment unparalleled in the entire history of
chemistry. The first of his discoveries was made
in 1894 when, with Lord Rayleigh, he isolated
argon, a rare gas that exists in small quantities in
the air. Later, Ramsay and his assistants suc-
ceeded in isolating helium, neon, krypton and
xenon, which are also present in the atmosphere
but in even smaller amounts. At first these gases
were mere chemical curiosities, but now. half a
century later, they are of the first industrial im-
portance. Argon is the gas used in the modern
gas-filled electric light bulb. The electric dis-
charge lamp depends on neon to such an extent
that few recognise it today by any other name
that of “neon sign." Helium is also employed in
these lamps, in addition to its well-know’ll use,
instead of hydrogen, for providing buoyancy for
“lighter-than-air” craft.
Ramsay was born in Glasgow in 1852. He was
a first-class athelete, musician and linguist, as
well as being professor of chemistry at Bristol
and later at University College, London. He was
knighted in 1902, and awarded the Nobel Prize
in 1904, In 1913 he presided over the Inter-
national Association of Chemical
Societies, where his flair for
languages enabled him to address
his cosmopolitan audience in
English, French, German and
Italian. He died in 1916.
ICi
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
A good roll-up at Randwick next
Saturday will be a good crowd in a
good cause—the Red Cross. The
racing date has been provided by
Sydney Tattersall’s Club —its Chelms-
tord Stakes meeting. The A.J.C. is
providing the course and all neces-
sary staff; also handing over its cut
trom the tote, catering and other
perks. Individual donations, includ-
es fjOOO from the Liquor Trades,
should cover prizemoney, and there
are, in any case, always some right-
spirited owners prepared to leave
prizemoney won by their horses in
t“® kitty. A string of riders have
undertaken to donate their percentage
irom the first winner they ride on
the day, and that is a generous ges-
ture. Now it’s up to racegoers,
regular or irregular, to do the rest.
* * * *
Were our imagination not re-
strained by the bonds of veracity we
could whip up a splendid “human-
interest ’ story dealing with a lady
punter named Clarissa Cholmondeley
who went to Caulfield on Saturday
and naturally decided to back nothing
-? rses whose names began with
a "C ; at any rate, surely it must
nave happened. Winners included
Chicquita, Chanak, Chilperic, Comic
Court and Centurion, while Carbon
Copy, Commend and Canopus each
ran second.
As pointed out here more than
once, Comic Court, while he has
failed badly against Carbon Copy in
Sydney, has shown himself pretty
well equal to that horse in Mel-
bourne ; in fact, even including their
Sydney clashes. Comic Court has
beaten Carbon Copy more often than
t’other way about. Consequently,
Comic Court seems very favorably
handicapped in the Melbourne Cup
with 9st. to Carbon Copy’s 9.7.
The two crack four-year-olds
clashed on Saturday in the w.f.a.
Memsie Stakes over 9 furlongs. Other
runners were St. Razzle, Clement, the
imported One Up and the New Zea-
lander Lord Revel. Having his first
run in Australia, Lord Revel made a
surprisingly forward showing; he did
the pacemaking, and hung on gamely
at the finish to be beaten a neck by
Carbon Copy, who was three-parts
of a length behind Comic Court. It
added to the merit of Comic Court’s
win that Carbon Copy had the last
run on him, but failed to get up;
nevertheless, both showed grand form.
Disappointment of the race was One
Up, who may have more brilliance
than stamina; he seemed to tire
completely in the straight, and
finished last.
The 7-furl'ongs Glen Eira Handicap
saw Chicquita (C. Waymouth) notch
up another effortless win. Nearing
the post the Blank filly had the field
strung out like Brown’s cows; it was
five lengths to Auburn in second
place, another three lengths to
Wooloowyn, third, and a further four
lengths to Landfield. Chicquita s win
(worth £700) was her third from four
starts, and in the unlikely event of
her never winning another, she would
still be one of the bargains of the
turf. Chicquita was bought as a
foal at foot with her dam Starr
Faithful for 40 guineas.
Giving the lie to those who de-
clared him “finished,” the Hellespont
five-year-old Chanak (R. Heather)
gave of his very best to win the 6-
furlongs Whittier Handicap. Chanak
carried topweight of 9.5, and, with a
relentless finishing burst, beat such
classy performers as Beau Gem
(second), River Hero (third) and
Comedy Prince (fourth), as well as
other good sprinters. Considering
that it was his first run since the
Doncaster, Comedy Prince did well
to finish less than a length behind
Chanak.
Pretty much the usual bunch of
regulars turned out for the distance
race, the Doona Handicap of 12-
furlongs, and it provided the usual
upset. Favorite Mile End finished
fourth, the 14-to-l chance Chilperic
winning gamely from Royal Pageant
and Binnia Gift. It is unlikely that
the field which contested this “stay-
ing” test included the horses destined
to win either of the Cups.
* * * *
Form displayed at Canterbury on
Saturday, in the Canterbury Guineas,
Stakes and other races, may have
offered some true indications of
spring prospects, but the next few
Saturdays, with racing at Randwick
and Rosehill, are likely to provide a
more reliable guide. Field Boy, for
instance, disappointed his Derby ad-
mirers by finishing only a moderate
fifth in the Guineas, but it would be
wise not to discard him till it is
seen how he shapes in the Rosehill
Guineas.
While reserving judgment on Field
Boy, who met with interference and
seemed unsuited by the small Canter-
bury track, it can be recorded that
the Midstream colt Delta won the
Guineas in really first-class fashion.
Delta was slow to find his feet, being
one of the tailenders early, and was
still more than half-way back in the
field turning for home; he then
finished brilliantly to win by a length
and a half from Beau China and
Kymac. Beau China ran a good,
even race to be in front half a fur-
long from home, but did not quite
see out the trip. The maiden per-
former Kymac also showed good
form; a son of Marabou, with a
dash of Carbine blood from his dam
Yellow Gold, Kymac looks a ready-
made stayer.
Having his first run since failing
in the Doomben Ten Thousand, the
Doncaster-winner Bernbrook turned in
a brilliant performance to win the
w.f.a. Canterbury Stakes. Among his
opponents were Columnist, Filipino,
Denali and other of the older horses,
as well as the speedy and lightly-
weighted three-year-olds Lady Pirou-
ette, High Jip and Aqua Regis.
From the start to the home turn
High Jip led them up, with Lady
Pirouette well placed and Bernbrook
a long way back. In the straight
Bernbrook unwound a cracking run
to beat Lady Pirouette by a neck;
Denali was third, and Filipino a
promising fourth.
The successes of Bernbrook and
Delta in the main races at Canter-
bury made an interesting double. The
late Percy Miller had great faith in
Magpie mares, of whom he had a
fine bunch at his Kia-Ora stud, and
consistently they were mated with the
imported Blandford stallion Mid-
stream. As well as a number of
other good gallopers, the full-brothers
Shannon and Bernbrook are products
of that cross (their dam, Idle Words),
and so is Delta, a brown colt by
Midstream from Gazza (by Magpie-
Tressova).
The track at Canterbury, which had
stopped a fair spot of rain, looked
heavy, and cut up considerably. It
was surprising, therefore, to see
Set Purpose, in winning the 9-furlongs
Canterbury Park Handicap, clock
1.52, which equalled the course
record and knocked spots off the race
record. Over the same journey Delta
took 1.57 in the Guineas, and
Tithonus (R. Selkrig) 1.561 in the
Welter. Set Purpose won by half a
length from San Mateo and Tamasha,
and, if times mean anything, it was
a remarkable run.
For Randwick (before accept-
ances): —
Novice: Susan, 1; Royal Reward,
2; Grecian, 3. Tramway Handicap:
Heroic Sovereign, 1; Smooth Action,
2; Wattle, 3. Three- and Four-
year-old : Niska, 1; Count Aulone,
2; Beau China, 3. Chelmsford
Stakes: Bernbrook, 1; Vagabond, 2;
Columnist, 3. Spring Handicap:
Plausible, 1 ; Indian Chief, 2; Ben-
volo, 3. Highweight: Star Vite, 1;
Grey Boots, 2; Royal Lad, 3.
* * * *
Play in the English county cricket
championship is not quite finished,
but none of the teams with matches
yet to play has any chance of ap-
proaching Yorkshire and Middlesex,
who, with 192 points each, have pro-
vided the first tie in the championship
since Notts, Lancashire and Surrey
finished level exactly 60 years back.
Individual stars of this season’s play
have been Yorkshire’s Len Hutton,
again the leading batsman with his
customary 3000-odd runs, and Wor-
cestershire’s pint-sized ’keeper Hugo
Yarnold, who claimed his 100 scalps
for the season, an effort only pre-
viously achieved by Ames, Duckworth
and Fred Huish.
* * * *
Any golfing “rabbits” thinking of
giving up the game as a bad job may
take fresh heart from the news that
“ She's a bit blown as Well —got any free air ?”
Norman Von Nida, with his years of
superlative play and countless tourna-
ment victories, has just, for the first
time, attained the height of a golfer’s
ambition —a hole-in-one.
* * * *
Absence of the top-notchers with
the Davis Cup team allowed some
of the lesser lights of tennis to pro-
gress further than they are usually
able in the Australian Hardcourt
championships played at Burwood
(N.S.W.) over the past week or so.
Nevertheless, the old regulars came
out on top. Just back from England,
and looking as though he has had
too much tennis, Geoff Brown was
beaten 8-6, 4-6, 4-6, 0-6 by the
veteran Adrian Quist in the singles
final. Marked by this page a year
or so back as our most promising
youngster, 14-year-old Ken Rosewall
won all three Junior (under-19) titles.
* * * *
Over 67,000 poured into M.C.G.
to see the first V.F.L. semi-final, and
a fair amount of rain poured in with
them. The game was between Essen-
don and Collingwood. Essendon
was there, but Collingwood seemed
to have rung in a Wednesday team
of old-age pensioners and broken-
down preliminary boys from the
stadium. The pensioners wheezed
and hobbled about in the rain, the
prelim, boys put on “blues” here and
there, and Essendon ignored them,
the greasy ground, and all notions
of mercy, scoring about every two
minutes, for a final tally of 20.16 to
the bedraggled Magpies’ 8.6. Next
Saturday it’s Carlton and North Mel-
bourne, the loser to play* Essendon
a week later and the winner to meet
Saturday’s winner in the grand final
on September 24. As herein sug-
gested a week ago, North and Essen-
don will probably play the “grand.”
* * * *
In getting through to the finals un-
beaten, with 15 successive wins,
Gordon achieved something that
hadn’t been done previously in the
60-odd years’ history of Sydney
Rugby Union competition. Tougn
luck, then, for the Gordon lads that
they should have gone down in
Saturday’s semi-final, which Univer-
sity won 14-9. In the other semi-
final Easts defeated Randwick 18-3;
next week Gordon and Easts clash,
the winner to meet University in the
grand final. In New Zealand on
Saturday the Australian tourists beat
New Zealand 11-6 in the first Rugger
test at Wellington—a match that kept
40,000 spectators well on their toes
throughout. The home side had the
outstanding individual players, but
the Australian teamwork was near-
perfect.
* * * *
Les Fuller (9.13) and Nipper
O’Brien (9.11) furnished a most will-
ing scrap at Leichhardt —so willing
at times that the bell was simply
ignored. Fuller had the edge in the
early rounds, but after four sessions
of stopping left swings with his chin
the O’Brien worked out a more prac-
tical method of countering this
punch, and went on to build up a
clear-cut winning margin of points.


Youll travel
lighter with
OIOBfTE
TRAVEL CARRS
Stronger,
smarter,
longer-lesfingl
w $ fffM sm/wmim
>: <•'
&
Write for particulars
and quotations
RAIN GAUGES
and
Meteorological Instruments
Standard Sin.
with brass rim,
measure.
Rain Gauge
container and
£3/1 77-
Standard sin. with same parts
£l/18/6
Also Barometers, Thermom-
eters, Hygrometers, Maximum
and Minimum Thermometers
and Recording Instruments.
sd
MEMORY,™ ease
Pass Examinations.
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Send stamp for booklet.
Rev. W. Rowlands,
13 Younger Grove,
Caulfield, S.E.B, Victoria.
The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
grinder discs—recommended for shearing-shed work.
1
40z., Boz., 160 z., 1 gallon sizes . . . Hardware and general store*.
THE MAND ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Pooling Small Clips.
“Murrawong”: Wool - pool-
ing is about 25 years old, and
in that time it has come to be
regarded by woolgrowers,
-brokers and -buyers as an in-
tegral part of woolselling. Each
year the demand for the service
is increasing, and will continue
to do so. One firm is now
handling close on 100,000 bales
a year in N.S.W, alone.
The advantages are:
To the grower, particularly
the small flockowner, it offers
the opportunity of getting the
clip classed by a first-class wool-
man who would not be obtain-
able for a small shed. Its
preparation is under the direc-
tion of principals in daily con-
tact with the wool-market and
buyers’ requirements. From the
broker’s viewpoint it offers the
solution of his greatest problem,
the cataloguing and showing
of star lots—a section that has
grown completely out of hand
—by eliminating its worst side,
mixed and badly-classed bales,
and also that broker’s bug-
bear, the butts-and-bags section.
The buyer likes it for several
reasons. First, it gives him the
opportunity to fill his orders with
fewer brands, and thus he can
spare his junior buyers and cut
down office work and his own
time. Secondly, he knows the
standard of the work he can ex-
pect under the pooler’s brand.
These firms have built a reputa-
tion over the years. The buyer
does not have to pull half a
bale out on the show-floor, as
he might with an unknown
brand.
Some brokers have instituted
blending star lots of matching
clips which are sold under a
common brand. Bulk-classing
in Victoria is a means to the
same end. But the fact every
sheepowner must keep before
him, particularly in the future
when wool values come down, is
that, as in every other industry,
the buyers’ needs must be
studied. The point carries sig-
nificance not only for the indi-
vidual but for Australia and its
chief industry.
For Mulesing Big Sheep.
“Archaps”; Queensland De-
partment of Agriculture states
that this can be done satisfac-
torily provided reasonable
methods are available to mini-
mise the heavy work associated
with catching, lifting and hold-
ing the sheep. A device which
has proved satisfactory is a
modification of the Bundy
crush.
This consists of a vertical
opening in a fence-panel around
a small pen on a raised grating
floor about level with the
operator’s belt. The opening
should be between 20in. and
24in. wide. A bar is placed
horizontally across the opening
about 12in. from the grating
floor. The operator, standing on
the ground, should be able to
remove the bar easily or swing
it out of the way with his left
hand, and the bar should be
firmly fixed when in position.
The sheep is caught by the
muzzle and thrown in the same
way as for shearing. The hind-
quarters are then swung under
the horizontal bar, and the
breech projects out towards the
operator; the catcher stands
with the sheep’s back and head
against his legs. When the
operation is completed the
operator releases the horizontal
bar and the catcher allows the
sheep to fall forward on its
feet.
With two catchers, each with
opening and bar, an experi-
enced operator can comfortably
treat 650 to 800 adult sheep in
a day. It is generally agreed
that the ideal time for the
Mules operation in Queensland
is when sheep are between five
and 10 months old, provided
black bushflies and blowflies are
inactive. If lambs are treated in
this way, in a few years the
whole of a flock becomes com-
posed entirely of Mulesed sheep.
A National Need.
“He-ne”: Linseed is wanted
for many reasons, not the
least being that big beef-for-
Britain scheme. No staple beef
industry can be built without a
staple supply of linseed-meal,
and that is lacking in Australia.
We can obtain linseed-oil, but
not meal, for the reason that
India and Argentina will export
oil but retain the bulk of the
meal for their own cattle.
What our struggling linseed
industry needs most is tariff
protection to maintain the price
at £4O a ton or better. At less
than this farmers are not in-
terested, as they can do better
with wheat.
In the last two years acreages
have been increased from 1600
in 1947 to 28,000 this season.
N.S.W. has 10,000 acres,
Queensland 20,000 and the other
States about 8000.
Every ton of linseed yields 40
per cent, oil —one of the chief
components of paints, varnishes
and linoleum —and 60 per cent,
of linseed-cake, which makes an
excellent cattle meal. To supply
Australia’s present requirements
of linseed it would be necessary
to sow about 500,000 acres.
Linseed requires a good and
well-distributed rainfall or irri-
gation during the period April
to October. As with wheat, the
distribution of the rainfall is as
important as the actual amount.
The only thing that will stop
the linseed industry is price.
Growers won’t grow it for less
than £4O a ton because it yields
only one-third to one-half as
much as wheat, the price of
which is now assured for four
years. A fixed linseed price
would lay the foundation of a
much-needed local industry.
Keeping the Feed Up.
“Nedrium”: Fodder-conserva-
tion is as important as soil-
conservation. Beveridge, sheep
and wool expert in the Dubbo
(N.S.W.) area, puts the case for
more fodder storage in a sen-
tence: “No sheep in Australia
“Stop your crochet-work and get an axe!”
is fed sufficiently to allow it to
live up to its genetical make-up
throughout its whole life.”
Which means that although
there are good grass-hay, lucerne
and oat seasons, the feed that
these provide is rarely, if ever,
maintained throughout the
sheep’s whole life. The only way
to keep the feed up in poor
seasons is by storing hay and pit
silage. Trangie experiment
station (N.S.W.) has 800 tons of
hay at the moment, which might
sound a great deal even for the
3000 sheep kept there for
progeny-testing and fertility
trials, but in 1947 three months’
drought used up 600 tons of
similar feed.
Perhaps the greatest instru-
ment in increasing fodder stor-
age could be the new pick-up
balers, driven by tractor power
take-offs, but their price is a
deterrent. Even so, a lot more
could be done with mowers, hay
rakes and stationary balers.
Cane-planting.
“Sarina”: An effective
method of hardening the eyes of
cane intended for planting (B.
17/8/’49) is to strip the trash
off cane two or three weeks be-
fore cutting. Then, when the
cane is needed, it is only neces-
sary to cut it and cart it to the
cutter-planter.
But when the sticks must be
cut up by hand for sowing per
drop-planter it pays to carry
some trash out to the field. Cut-
up plants can be covered with
this and protected from drying
sun and wind until planted.
As for grub-infested cane
being good for planting,
climatic conditions have a big
say. In wet districts grub-attack
gradually affects the stick, but
in drier parts deterioration due
to grub-attack proceeds rapidly,
and so grub-injured cane is use-
less except for very early plant-
ing. I like thinnish cane-setts
for shallow, stony ground, but I
believe in planting them thickly.
Eggs for Hatching.
“K.T.”: Best type of egg for
setting is that with a glossy shell
and weighing between 2oz. and
2ioz. Eggs under 2oz. produce
layers of small eggs, and those
which are oversized often are
difficult to hatch. Most un-
desirable for incubation is the
narrow egg of excessive length.
Generally the percentage that
hatch is low, and many pip the
shell in the Wrong place, due to
having grown in the incorrect
position, and die there. The
good egg should be broad across
and well-rounded at the narrow
end.
There is always a percentage
of deformed chicks, more fre-
quent in an incubator. How-
ever, the more attention paid to
selecting points the greater the
number of normal chicks.
Deformed chicks are hatched
when the incubator has been
running too high during incuba-
tion. On the other hand, when
the temperature is a little low
deformities will occur also, but
not as much as with the oppo-
site, Keep to instructions as
closely as possible. Chicks
which haven’t hatched by the
22nd day should be destroyed
with the deformed and weak,
because if they do succeed in
struggling from their prison they
are generally weak.
Rabbit Fumigant.
“My”: A substitute fumigant
for cyanide gas, chloropicrin, is
proving effective. It’s simple to
use and, because of the dense
vapor it gives off, a quantity as
small as a teaspoonful will clean
up the occupants of an average-
sized burrow. Inject the chemical
with a syringe or pressure oil-
can, or place at arm’s-length in
the burrow a piece of sacking or
cotton-waste soaked with it.
Then fill and trample in the
burrow mouth. Cost works out
at about 3d. a burrow, which
isn’t expensive when it’s con-
sidered that seven rabbits eat as
much as one sheep.
Draining a Swamp.
“E.H.S.”: The ditches should
be wide and shallow to avoid
exposing the sand and gravel
which usually underlie the peaty
surface. If they are exposed to
the action of the stream erosion
will be rapid and hard to con-
trol. When cutting ditches
poplar or willow shoots should
be planted along each side,
spaced about 3ft. apart. They’ll
strike almost at once and throw
out long, fibrous roots which
coalesce and form a continuous
mat-like layer over the sub-
merged area of the channel.
Once established, this fibrous
mass affords 100 p.c. protection
against erosion.
Destructive effect of erosion is
not confined to the area in
which it originates. Damage
has been caused by eroded
material silting-up streams that
formerly contained sft. or 6ft.
of water and occasional long,
deep reaches. These silted sec-
tions become shallow, fish disap-
pear and other losses occur.
Peak Downs Report.
“K.W.R.”; The Queensland-
British Food Corporation’s first
annual report, covering the
period from commencement date
until March 31 last, states that
Peak Downs freehold of 92,596
acres was bought for £86,000, and
Cu!lin-la-Ringo (118,098 acres,
largely freehold), and the Inderi
portion of Meteor Downs
(51,372 acres, largely freehold),
and Wolfgang (52,208 acres)
were obtained at prices well be-
low £1 per acre, including plant
and improvements. Investiga-
tions have been conducted with
regard to Gordon Downs, Lang-
ton, Orion Downs, Retro and
Marmidilla.
For the contract ploughing of
30,498 acres, Theiss Bros, were
paid Bs. 6d. per acre. The first
contract, for 5000 acres, was at
7s. 6d. per acre, to be adjusted
in the light of experience during
operations. Total area planted
with sorghums this year was
29,286 acres (Kalo 18,941 acres,
Wheatland 10,345 acres), at the
seeding rate of 51b. to 61b. per
acre. About 100 sorghum
varieties and crosses were sown
in experimental plots, and plant-
ings also were made of several
varieties of sunflower, soy-beans,
velvet and Mauritius bean, cow-
peas, etc.
Until the seeding rains of
mid-January, the summer at
Peak Downs was one of the
driest for 60 years. Excellent
rains fell after seeding and the
season developed into the wettest
on record, nearly 19in. falling
between the commencement of
seeding and March 31. This
gave excellent growth, and at
March 31 there was every pros-
pect of a million-bushel yield.
However, severe frosts subse-
quently took heavy toll, and the
harvest now is estimated to be
less than 700,000 bushels. [There
are stories current that wrong
types of sorghum were planted.]
The 1949-50 aim was 100,000
acres under crop, but this de-
pends upon necessary additional
plant being obtained. The ulti-
mate target is 250,000 acres
under crop annually.
The financial statement shows


IF CATARRH
HEAD NOISES
distress you, do this
To clear stopped-up nos-
trils and remove post-nasal
congestion; ensure eas*y
natural minimise
head
and improve
hearing,
sleep sound-
ly and take
a new in-
ter es t in
life, you
should use
Mucus Sol-
vent a
new English
discovery by
David Bur-
ton of Lon-
don. You
may do this
Simply cut
The Catarrh Zone
free of charge.
out this announcement and
send with name and address
and you will, in return, re-
ceive under sealed cover a
generous supply of this scien-
tific drug-free Therapeutic
combination without cost or
obligation. Do it now!
fds
ROBINSON LABORATORIES
TURRAMURRA, N.S.W.
S 5.
* T
[L w%
&
THE HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
The self-contained, self-emptying
Sanitary System.
Est. 1927.
Imitation is Sincerest Flattery
Beware of imitations similar in appear-
ance but lacking the internal patent
which makes the Hygeia Dissolvenator
so efficient.
Intending purchasers are invited to in-
vestigate the integrity of the Hygeia
Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd., the bona fides of
the Hygeia Dissolvenator, as well as the
value and scope of the Hygeia Guarantee
compared with any other guarantee.
The Hygeia Guarantee includes 7 years
against corrosion.
Let the record of the 12,000 Dissol-
venators sold during the past 22 years
be your guide—do not be misled by
specious statements.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 20 years.
DISTRIBUTORS:
NJS.W.; Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Queensland: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Qld.),
609 Colonial Mutual Building, Queen
St., Brisbane.
Victoria: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Yic.)
Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
South Australia: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co.,
(S.A.), Edment’s Building, Bundle
St., Adelaide.
Western Australia: R. P. Mclnerney &
Co., Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
Tasmania : Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd., Laun-
ceston and Hobart.
Darwin: C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales
and Services.
For Sale.
CLIMBING TOMATO, bears a whole
year, yields 2001 b.; has 20ft. runners
loaded with large red tomatoes. Disease
and drought resistant. Sensation in
America. 2/6 pkt. posted.
N.S.W. SEED CO., Kurnell, Sydney.
"The
• Behind every bale of your
wool lie years of courageous
planning and effort.
A.M.L.&F. realise this. That’s
why they give your hard-
earned wool the same
personal care and supervision
as you would yourself,- and
that’s why you can be sure of
the best possible price when
you send your clip to
AMLF
86 Years in the Service of the Man on the Land
INC. IN ENGLAND, 1863.
AUSTRALIAN. MERCANTILE, LAND S FINANCE COY. LTD.
4 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
AND AT MELBOURNE AND BRISBANE.
Country Branches—2V.S.lP.: Newcastle, Wagga, Henty, Hay, Cowra, Scone,
Moree, Garah, Wee Waa, Brewarrina. Q’ld: Townsville, Charleville, St.
George, Cunnamulla, Dirranbandi. Assoc. Agents: McPhie & Co. Pty.,
Ltd., Toowoomba, Oakey, Dalby and Pittsworth. Vic.: Wodonga.
,
x\ - <
vVX
.1 8
eft i
■;
URGES!,
f
NEW MODEL HD-5, 37 drawbar h.p.,
11,000 lb. Tractor smallest of AC
crawler range, featuring 2-cycle diesel
power with electric push-button starting.
ih
A
W. SPEED PATROL. 31 belt horsepower
—26 drawbar horsepower—lo ft. blade.
Ideal light machine for grading,
maintenance and construction.
MOST PRODUCTIVE TRACTOR
Far ahead in performance and easy servicing.
This revolutionary ALLIS - CHALMERS
HD-19, with hydraulic Torque Converter
Drive, has a draw-bar pull of more than
36,000 pounds! The HD-19 moves heavier
loads at greater average speeds than ever
thought possible. LONGER LIFE —years of
extra use are built into the HD-19, and its
simplified maintenance means better main-
tenance. GREATER OPERATOR COM-
FORT, fingertip hydraulic steering, self-
energising brakes, new type adjustable split
seat, torque converter elimination of most
gear shifting, are all big features of this
completely new, thoroughly modern tractor.
m
ALLIS - CH
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
■T
■■ • ■-■■■
Wmmm
jm
il
*t< ■■
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
ESTABLISHED 1884
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Reg’d Office & Works, Blackwall Pt. Road, Five Dock,
City Office, 17 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING, ETC,
total liabilities of £484,938, in-
cluding £232,500 due to the Co-
ordinator - General of Public
Works for the purchase of pro-
perties, the execution of leases
not having been finalised when
accounts were closed. Estimated
commitments with third parties
for capital expenditure totalled
£314,341. The Overseas Food
Corporation advanced £147,000,
and the Queensland Treasurer,
£49,000.
Assets include leasehold land,
£141,500 ; bores, dams and wells,
£33,066 ; fencing, £22,347 ; agri-
cultural equipment, £56,530;
stocks of stores, bags and seed
(at cost) £63,536 ; growing crops,
£55,093 ; and livestock, £20,855
(up to March 31 about 1605
cattle had been purchased). Pur-
chased properties were estimated
to have 180,000 acres of arable
land, and the balance was to be
used for grazing. Since harvest-
ing had not then commenced,
growing crops were valued at
actual expenditure incurred at
the farms.
Hints for the Farm.
“Mr.”: Old bones are not the
only lurking - place of the
microbe that causes botulism.
It’s found also in water-damaged
hay, chaff or grain; in fodder
contaminated by mice; in
trampled tussocky paddocks;
the butts of old stacks; cocky
chaff left in the paddock after
harvesting, and in fodder con-
taminated by poultry droppings.
Preventive measures include de-
struction of damaged fodder,
bones and carcasses (including
those of fowls and rabbits);
keeping the fowls out of the
stable ; making stacks and chaff-
house mice-proof, and feeding a
lick made of 80 per cent, salt
and 20 per cent, bonemeal.
Never give stock water you
wouldn’t drink yourself.
“Rooster”: Tomato seedlings
raised from your own seed will
be hardier if not forced. Now’s
the time for sowing, in 6in.
flower-pots. Use a light sandy
loam which has been baked in
an oven, or treat it with boiling
water. Add a light dusting of
superphosphate, and sieve the
soil. Provide good drainage.
About 15 seeds per pot is
ample. Place each seed with a
pair of tweezers. Cover with
sieved soil and place a sheet of
glass on the top. Keep inside
on a window-sill until germina-
tion, then place them outside,
taking precautions against frosts
or rains. They will be ready for
planting in late October.
“Matt”: Tyre-tube rubber is
excellent for packing loose
wooden car-wheels. Take the
brake-drum off and lay the wheel
flat, loosely assembled. Take out
each spoke, put a piece of rub-
ber over the point, and drive it
back. If the spoke end is worn,
don’t cut a hole in the rubber.
More than one piece of rubber
under each spoke can be used,
or use one lot of rubber and
wedge in the usual way. By
compressing the rubber tightly,
all movement in the wheel is
prevented. Result, no wear.
“Beau Forte”; Never use
emery-cloth or paper on or
around a machine if sandpaper
will do. The emery breaks off,
and if it gets into a bearing it
never stops cutting. Emery em-
beds, but sandpaper grit crushes
and is taken away by oil.
“M.”: Before planting a
young deciduous tree prune back
all the broken roots and cut the
stronger shorter than the weaker
to help the tree develop a bal-
anced root-system. Point the
strongest roots in the direction of
the prevailing winds, and when
replacing the soil hold the tree
upright at a level slightly higher
than it was growing in the
nursery. Gently raise and lower
as the soil goes in, to bring it
into close contact with the roots,
firming the top-soil by pressure
with the foot.
“K.T.”: The rooster is half
the breeding-pen as far as
poultry is concerned. He should
be younger than the hens. His
quality is responsible for ithe re-
sultant chickens, but each hen is
only responsible for the quality
of the chicks hatched from her
own eggs.
“K.T.”; Early spring is time
to plant potatoes, artichokes and
asparagus crowns. Asparagus
beds especially should be kept
free from weeds, and should
have a loose surface. A light
dressing with old manure is
beneficial. Seeds of peas, carrots
and lettuce can be sown. The
soil should be good and well
worked. Don’t plant vegetables
and then neglect them. Use the
hoe and eliminate the weeds.


QGSA
YOUR HOLIDAY PLACE
Travel without trouble by Australia’s
International Airline—famous for 28
years of service. On the ground and in
the air Qantas makes your personal
comfort a paramount responsibility.
Ask your travel agent for-details.
SIN
APO
RE
ft*
NORFOLK
NEW
GUINEA
KONC
KDESG
UfiA
EI
cfi?
—fri
!U&
Pi'
L 8 N 013 H
7j^\-
CAIR
INDIA
'*/
UVA
PAKISTAN
fUf
WITH
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS
Australia’s International Airline
in association with BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION
The
Mutual life and
Citizens' Assurance
Co.. Ltd.
Martin Place and Castlereagh
Street, SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of pro-
viding cash for your family, or
for yourself when you retire,
than by taking out a policy with
The M.L.C.
Assets Exceed £60,000,000.
Annual Income Exceeds
£9,500,000.
M. 0. Alder, Gen. Manager.
DAW ERA
B
PENS
Every point
guaranteed—*
do not cxperimeni with imitation*
C. BRANDAUER a CO. LTD, BIRMINGHAM, ENO.
Face Facts
More than 20 feet of hair grow on a man’s face each
day nearly a mile and a half in a year! That’s a fact,
for each of the 25,000 hairs, the average crop of an
Australian male, grows at the rate of at least 1/100 inch
each day. A tough assignment for a razor blade?
Certainly, but it can be tackled comfortably by using
Blue Gillette Blades daily—they have the sharpest edges
in the world.
es>
ct;
<s>
CJ
O
53£i
«*
sT*
'Good Mornings begin with Gillette
BLUE
Gillette
BLADES
TEH FOB 31- FIVE FOR 1/6
1/169
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM’S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise menq
“Workers are showing a greater
inclination to settle down and look
for a permanent, steady jib.”
And that’s a job at which too
many are adept.
•b *b *b
“Lost, pair of snap-lock handcuffs.
Sentimental value.”
—Sydney suburban paper.
Owner had been much
attached to them.
*b *b *b
“Block wood, orders now taken,
from half ton to 1000 tons, local
orders given first-class priority, as
usual, £2 17s. 6d. per ton, 325. 6d.
half ton, delivered. Sorry, no avail-
able civility and prompt delivery.”
—Parramatta “Advertiser.”
Just a matter of take it and
like it.
*b *b *b
“Fined £l5 for driving at 80
m.p.h., a Sydney motorist said he
was hurrying home to play tennis.”
His deuced hurrying resulted
in a net loss.
•b *b *b
“A woman’s changeable mood adds
spice.”— Woman’s mag.
Producing a peppery husband.
“In fact, he was in one of the
pig stores in town last week looking
for some golf clubs.”
—Suburban paper.
He’ll now proceed to litter the
course.
* 4*
Articles on beauty may be all
very well for those without house-
hold chores.” — Woman’s paper.
But redundant for those who
already have all the wrinkles.
•f* *
‘Wanted, help, one afternoon a
week, for ironing and minding three
small children.”- —Suburban paper.
So, despite modern psycho-
logy, some kids do require re-
pressing !
Highweight Handicap.
“For people who want to live a
long time, thinness is imperative.”
—Sydney “Sun.”
It’s doubtful if this world of
taxes
Where people seek to grind their
axes
Has half enough of levity
To tempt a man to linger here
A prey to ills and aches and fear
Just to achieve longevity.
But if to live should seem
delicious
Then it will pay to be judicious
Lest hopes for future years you
wreck;
For if, unlike the man who’s
thin.
You sport a sagging double
chin
It’s just a stone around your
neck.
BERT.
Affinity.
When Cupid my crustaceans
heart
. Transfixed, I felt within me
start
Such rapture that I sought to
know
What magic had transformed
me so:
’Tis clear, I mused, that she
and I
Were fashioned in the self-same
die;
Twin souls are ours, and ever
will
A single destiny fulfil:
Alas! I never did suppose
I could so wrongly diagnose
A case, but now the truth is
clear —
Our sole affinity is — beer!
JEAN STANGER.
Unprofessional Etiquette.
“An English physician, writing in
the ‘Lancet,’ criticises doctors who
discuss a patient at his bedside as
though he was unconscious or
already on a slab, who show im-
patience when taking the case-history
of a dull patient, who joke at his
expense, read a newspaper while the
patient is telling the story of his
illness, use high-flown technical
terms or order elaborate diets for
patients on modest incomes.”
I had come home with a
raging headache, shivering all
over and with a face that seemed
to be on fire.
“It’s tonsillitis you have,”
said the wife emphatically.
“You had exactly the same
symptoms before. I remember
it was the day Aunt Millie went
back to Adelaide after staying
with us —it was four years ago
last April. Get straight into bed
and I’ll get the doctor.”
Our own doc. happened to be
on holidays, so his locum came
along.
He announced himself as Dr.
Killork-Ewer, hung his hat on
the curtain-rod spear, sat down
and took my temperature. As
he glanced at the clinical ther-
mometer his eyebrows shot up
to somewhere in his hair.
“Fancy! ” he said. “One
hundred and eight! Amazing
coincidence. • Exactly what 1
went around in at golf yester-
day. I’d have broken the hun-
dred only for a few putts that
lipped the cup and a six I took
to get out of a bunker at the
short tenth. Have you a
piano?”
He took a solid work-out on
the Ritual Fire Dance to get
him, as he said, in the mood for
diagnosing. By that time my
temperature had leaped a
couple more notches up the
mercury.
Back in my room, he parked
in front of the dressing-table
mirror and began plucking his
eyebrows.
“Has there ever been,” he
said, “in the genealogical rami-
fications of your divers ante-
cedents, any tendency towards
nephritic or umbilical idiosyn-
crasies, or thoracic or lumbar
lesions?”
I thought for a second. “I
don’t know about that,” I re-
plied, “but a great-aunt of my
mother’s was a martyr to goose-
pimples, migraine and fallen
arches.”
Dr. Killork-Ewer waved a
hand contemptuously in my
direction and turned to my
wife.
“Your husband seems a dope
to me,” he said. “Can’t even
answer a simple question with-
out wandering. He doesn’t look
too good at all. I wouldn’t be
surprised if anything happened.”
“Look here” I began.
Dr, Killork-Ewer completely
ignored me. “Does he always
have that stupid look,” he
asked my wife, “and gape with
his mouth open? It could be
adenoids. I don’t like to see
him picking at the bedclothes
like that —it’s usually a sign of
the approaching end.” He came
over, took a tape-measure out
of his pocket, ran it over me
and said “I’ll use your phone.”
I could hear him saying
something about probably
there’d be a job for him, and
that we looked the type who’d
go for oak with silver handles.
He came back, sat down by
the bed, took a form-guide out
of his pocket and began study-
ing it. “Where do you feel the
pain most?” he asked absently.
“In my right heel,” I said
morosely. “Especially when I
swallow. And every time I flex
my biceps the hairs on my chest
start to itch. I notice also that
if I bend forward too quickly
my left eye starts to water. I’ve
also an ache over my left
clavicle if I hit my right knee
to test my reflexes.”
Dr. Killork-Ewer looked up,
his eyes alight. “Oh!” he said.
“Reflexes! They are movements
independent of the will sent
back from nerve-centres. Will!
That’s the good oil. I’U back
Codicil in the first division of
the Welter tomorrow!”
He put the form-guide back
in his pocket and turned to the
wife.
“Keep him on a strict diet
for a few months,” he said.
“Nothing but partridge-breasts
stewed in champagne, with some
caviare and perhaps pate de foie
gras. You’d also better see that
he has his affairs in order. Oh,
and if he gets violent send for
me and I’ll have him certified.”
He bent to pick up his bag,
and it was then I socked him
with the bed-lamp. As at last he
came to and dazedly sat up I
pointed to the egg-like lump on
his skull.
“That,” I said, “is the out-
ward manifestation of a bad
case of Planter’s wart. Go home
and take a quart of boiling water
every two hours and stick strictly
to a diet of fried mangoes, bay-
rum and ipecacuanha. Send
your bill in, then I’ll send mine.
Good afternoon!”
BO.
Not Negotiable.
“State Premiers who went to Can-
berra during the week with expan-
sionist money ideas left unhappily
juggling a hot political potato.”
—Sydney “Sunday telegraph:’’
Don’t conjure visions splendid
Of things you mean to do,
You Premiers who hie
To Canberra. Intended
Constructions are taboo
And anyone knows why.
You love a cheerful giver
Who hands out revenue,
But all in vain you go
While down the Snowy River
Those millions run that you
Thought Chifley would bestow.
In any generation
High hopes can turn out duds,
Like wine dashed from our lips;
So feel no consternation
If you got steaming spuds
But insufficient “chips.”
D. H. E.


THEOTHER FEĹOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
The Basic Wage
One of our learned Judges has said
that the provision of the same basic wage
for a family unit of five as for a single
worker is socially unjust.
I can’t understand that point of view.
A man’s labor, be it digging post-holes or
balancing books, is his commodity and
should be paid for at a fair market price,
regardless of its vendor’s marital or de-
pendant status. For instance, a married
grocer with four dependants is not allowed
to charge any more for a-pound of butter
than may a single grocer with no depend-
ants.
A wage-fixing plan could be worked
out on the following lines: All labor to
be sold at a fair market rate, determined
by the Arbitration Court, married
men to receive for wife and each child
an appropriate allowance. Widows and
widowers with children should also re-
ceive the dependants’ allowance.
The scheme could be financed by a
special tax on persons with no depend-
ants. When they marry, they would re-
ceive a cash dowry of a proportion of all
payments made into the scheme. The
plan could be made financially sound be-
cause dowries and allowances would be
balanced by newcomers and carryovers
each year. It might cost a few million
to start, but it would pay dividends in
the long run. — Angel (Q.).
Loyalty
The accusation of disloyalty to Britain
made against a member of the Queens-
land Parliament by Premier Hanlon calls
for some hard thinking.
The member concerned, a man with a
fine service and civil record, was putting
forward a case for an increased price for
pig-meat, a case based on an extensive
knowledge of the industry. His major
point was that the present price under the
British contract is insufficient to cause
any increase in production and exports.
The Premier’s theme was that it is not
the time to ask Britain for more. Many
Australians are being confused by such
appeals to loyalty, which is an essential
quality in the proper functioning of a
political community. But every man is
entitled to distinguish between the
allegiance he owes to his King and
country and the allegiance which poli-
ticians seek to obtain from him for a
particular political creed or social policy.
What exactly does the word loyalty
mean? Webster defines it as “Fidelity
to a superior, or to a duty, love, etc.,” and
quotes Trench in saying “Loyalty ex-
presses, properly, that fidelity which one
owes according to law, and does not in-
clude that attachment to the Royal
person which, happily, we in England
have been able further to throw into the
word.” '
It is worth examining that definition.
Clearly, criticism of a Government is not
forbidden by a proper sense of loyalty.
Loyalty is fidelity to law, written or un-
written, and as far as the Dominions are
concerned that does include fidelity to the
King, who bears a special position linking
the Dominions yvith Britain and each
other by just such allegiance.
Strictly defined, loyalty does not require
Australians to give special allegiance to
Great Britain, let alone to the present
British Government. Indeed the very
Governments that are calling on this
Icfyalty are those which decided to
cut many of the links formerly joining
the Dominions more closely to Britain.
Australians want to do all they can to
assist Britain, and nothing to harm her.
At the same time many feel they cannot
support the actions of the present British
Government. What then must they
choose-? It is no easy decision, and one
must establish clear principles on which
to decide. Those principles can be sum-
marised briefly by saying “If an action is
likely to harm the British people it is un-
wise.” But that is a different thing from
an action contrary to the policy of the
present British Government. Sometimes,
in fact, an act in support of the British
Government’s policy might be considered
as against the best interests of the British
people as a whole.—K. W. B. (N.S.W.).
Peak Downs Sorghum
E. B. Maher, Leader of the Opposition,
barked up a forest of wrong trees in the
Queensland Legislative Assembly when
he criticised the Peak Downs sorghum
project.
The British Food Mission visited Peak
in April, 1948, without the
prompting of the Hanlon Government
and against the advice of some of its
experts. Far from being “taken for a
ride” by ,the Premier, they declared the
land was the best for their purposes that
they had seen in their search over the
British Empire. They “sold” their desire
for the land to Hanlon, not he to them.
Maher said “The original aim—to raise
pigs—has not been realised.” That is
true only to the extent that Maher would
produce pigs without grain to feed them.
The Queensland-British Food Corpora-
tion had, in fact, to produce both out of
next-to-nothing, brood sows being as
scarce in 1948 as seed sorghum.
“The much-vaunted million-bushel
crop” was produced all right, but an
unprecedented mid-May frost —which
killed sturdy bloodwoods and cracked
motor-engine cylinders also —killed the
sorghum and spilled the grain on the
ground. I saw it there in early July.
Maher’s “400,000 acres of beautiful
country which have been taken out of the
hands of competent private producers”
were beautiful 50 years ago. Today they
are infested with mint-weed, saffron-
thistle, spear-grass and white-spear, which
is why “private producers” were glad to
sell to Q.B.F.C.
That “the Government has gone back
to State-controlled cattle-stations” is
simply not true because : (a) Q.B.F.C. is
controlled by a board of three English
and three Australian directors, the chair-
man is English and the deputy-chairman
is Australian, and the Hanlon Govern-
ment, therefore, has only an indirect
little finger in the pie; ( b ) the area is
60 per cent, ploughable and the balance
suitable only for grazing; when crop
rotation comes in two years—together
with stubble-grazirjg —the ratio will be
the other way round. Maher should state
what animals, other than cattle, he would
use on this great area.
“The Hanlon Government should re-
treat from the scheme before the tax-
payer suffers further loss” is just mental
fog. Queensland puts up 25 per cent,
of £2,000,000, and, other than that spent
on plant and machinery, all the money is
spent in Queensland. On top of that
some very run-down Queensland pastures
are being regenerated. It seems then that,
for once, the Queensland taxpayer is on
a pretty good wicket and, also, that the
English taxpayer is getting a good run
for his money.
Averaged over five years, there were
fewer cattle in Queensland in 1943-47
than in 1893-97 (Commonwealth Produc-
tion Bulletin No. 41, 1946-47). There
are many contributing reasons, but the
main one is the widespread degeneration
of natural pastures. The only remedy for
that trouble is the plough, but until multi-
furrow technique was devised recently—
up to 48 furrows —that was beyond the
reach of any but a magician. Whether
or not anybody on the job realised it, the
first plough on Peak Downs did more
than start a growing stream of grain and
meat for Britain. It opened a new era
of lucrative pasture-regeneration that
must extend to all of Australia’s worn-
out pastures. It is not only a scheme for
growing food for Britain. It is also a
scheme for reviving our millions of acres
of ruined pastures. —F. R. (Q.).
Broken Hill
Broken Hill affords an excellent ex-
ample of industrial “peace” —30 years of
it. The reasons are many, but the main
ones are pretty &ear.
Both workers and employers fear an-
other conflict like the 20-month strike of
1919-20. That taught each side the
strength of the other.
Round-table conferences have replaced
force and even the Arbitration Court.
A strict, almost fanatical, adherence is
maintained by both sides to the triennial
agreements drawn up at these confer-
ences. Neither side would deliberately
break any part of that agreement. Mutual
trust is the outstanding characteristic.
There is strong level-headed leadership
of the workers and by one big union, the
Barrier Industrial Council, to which all
unions are affiliated. “The Barrier Daily
Truth,” edited for over 20 years by Ern
Wetherell and owned by the W.I.U. of A.
(Barrier Branch of the Miners’ Federa-
tion), is also a model of commonsense in
its approach to industrial matters.
The attitude of the owners and their
representatives, the introduction of many
extra-agreement amenities, a complete
sense of fair play by both sides and a
sense of wellbeing and security held by
all have been invaluable in maintain-
ing “peace.”
The workers are proud of their in-
dustrial set-up and all for peace, prosperity
and progress. Mechanisation is highly
advanced and welcomed.
The lead bonus is not a means of
giving or maintaining industrial peace.
It could, in fact, cause trouble. When
there was no bonus everything was quiet;
when, because of low metal prices, it
faded from the pay envelope altogether,
there was still no trouble. It has only
been during the last few years that the
bonus has been more than a few shillings.
General cures for industrial “ills” are
hard to find, but some useful information
should be gained from a study of Broken
Hill. To rid unions of the disruptive
force of Communism is essential, but a
mutual trust between workers and em-
ployers, plus a determined adherence to
agreements, is equally essential. —W. W.
(N.S.W.).
Machinery
Only a faddist would wholly condemn
the use of machinery, but thinkers the
reverse of cranks accept that it needs to
be brought to a proper balance with hand
skills.
Used to supplement, not supplant,
craftsmanship, it is a blessing. It saves
a lot of drudgery without destroying
creative labor and the satisfaction which
that gives. Machinery, as it is used
today, too often increases drudgery.
That factor largely the attitude
of many industrial workers whose interest
is centred mainly on their pay envelopes.
Their work, unlike that of the craftsman,
gives them little pleasure.
The greater the proportion of crafts-
men and other skilled workers in the
whole labor force of a community, the
sounder is the social fabric. Enjoyment
of and pride in their calling, versatility in
the handling of materials, integrity of
character and invulnerability to the mass
mind have generally been typical of this
section. Hence machinery that enables
the unskilled to replace craftsmen is anti-
social, even though it leads to an increase
of wealth. So, too, except in certain cir-
cumstances, is very costly machinery, the
use of which encourages the elimination
of small enterprises in favor of large
organisations.
The unregulated use of machinery is
dephyndent on a steadily rising population
and a constant succession of fresh
markets. But there has been steep decline
in the birthrate in all the highly mechan-
ised societies. When every country is
extensively mechanised and there are no
more virgin areas left to exploit a serious
problem will have to be faced.
Tremendous waste of material is in-
volved, too, in the Unrestricted use of
machinery—as when a wood that took
many years to mature is cut down to
provide newsprint for a few issues of a
single big-city newspaper or some equally
ephemeral purpose. The world can’t
squander its natural resources indefinitely.
Finally, and ominously, extreme
mechanisation has been detrimental to
soil-fertility wherever it has been tried. —
Economist (N.S.W.).
Rice
According to “Hansard,” there is no
hope of Australians obtaining any rice
for home consumption—all of it has to
be sent overseas. Yet the rice-plant is
indigenous to Australia. Von Mueller
found both swamp and upland rice grow-
ing wild in the N.T., and in the old days
Chinese farmers in the Territory not only
grew excellent rice for local consumption
but also had a surplus for export to
China. Few Territorians ever bought
anything but locally-grown rice. When
rice-growing was begun in the Murrum-
bidgee area, however, the NT. was pro-
hibited from growing the stuff.
At Darwin, Brock’s Creek and Pine
Creek are areas known locally as “The
Rice Gardens” because rice was once
grown under natural conditions and with-
out the costly irrigation water needed in
the Riverina marginal areas. There is
ample land in the Territory suitable for
rice-growing. As it is, the unfortunate
taxpayer foots the bill for growing a
water-consuming plant like rice in a
country utterly unfitted for its natural
cultivation. — Husker (N.T.).
Sardines
The price of pilchards and sardines
has advanced so much from the pre-war
4d. a tin that it’s a wonder somebody
doesn’t have a crack at canning the local
variety. The waters of Murray Island in
Torres Strait are black with sardines and
have been for the century Europeans
have been here. A firm once tried can-
ning them, but cheap foreign competition
forced it out of business. With prices
the way they are today it may be worth
trying again.—Telarb (Torres Strait).
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 33
(CRYPTIC TYPE.)
Across.
1—Suitable beaches stolen by a
knave signifying spasmodic ac-
tivity. (4, 3, 6)
8 — Falstaff’s headquarters gives a
reason for stocking up. (6)
9— These elevators don’t let you
down. (7)
11— This libertine is to stray when
astray. (5)
12— Comic-opera princess cuts the
head off a grand-opera princess.
(3)
13 — Object when I am half-way
through the morning. (3)
15 — Tongue is in far changes. (7)
16 — Was named Dy before her mar-
riage, now living in straitened
circumstances. (5)
17 — Cloud shone peculiarly without
education. (10)
19 —The entrance of mine has a little
publicity on it. (4)
21 —Fodders of the founder of Holly-
wood’s self-censoring organisa-
tion. (4)
23 —Firm compatriot of Cassar led
back to the coast of India. (10)
26 — Animal with a horn on its nose.
(5)
27— Limerick would certainly be writ-
ten on this by the maker of 30
across. (7)
28 — Singular gallery idol. (3)
29 — The old country and I join forces
in a town on N.S.W.’s North
Coast. (3)
{Solution in next issue.)
30 —A food flavoring is upset by a
fellow capable of a much greater
burden. (5)
33 This beast of a Central American
is to duck you. (7)
34 — They are the brave male source
of caviare. (6)
35 Buck’s parent lines a shell. (6,
2,5)
Down.
1 — Boundary turning red and
fraudulent. (4, 8)
2 Tots everything in neckwear. (7)
3 A piece of loud music to correct
and to terrify. (8)
, 4—Turkish title. (3)
5 It signifies a preference by the
political traitor and that woman.
(6)
6 Essay concerns a football score.
(3)
7 You fiddle about, having wan-
dered. (7)
10— Wickedness. (3)
11 — One arms in a town on Western
Port Bay. (3, 4)
14—Roofing the middle of the Tower
of Babel? (12)
18—A little weight takes nothing but
commonsense like an allotropic
form of oxygen. (7)
20—Mother needs the French support
for this misuser of long words. (8)
22 —A sail may depend upon three
feet and one other limb. (7)
24 — Part of Europe can give Ida a
bun. (7)
25 — Ticket required for a wager
about the sick. (6)
27 —Thus is a misuse of language
sometimes emphasised. (3)
31 — Also. (3)
32 — The tree —before and after the
bushfire. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 32.


ROLLS RAZOR
J<2s
R>i>:
N>
aa
S'
<<
m
m
m
m
25U^
1
\
PRICE £4
No soap, water, brush or blades needed
. * G//° *
r|he
ELECTRIC
DRY- SHAVER
A beautifully made precision
instrument which incorporates the
following outstanding characteristics.
1. It is fully guaranteed against de-
fective material or workmanship.
2. It has no motor and requires no
lubrication.
3. There is only one efficient self sharpen-
ing, Twin-cutting head to be cleaned
after shaving.
With all these distinct advantages the
Rolls “Viceroy” Electric Dry Shaver is the
best that money can buy. Operates on
240 volts, A.C.
7^2
mm
£770
Shave anywhere anytime with the
NON-ELECTRIC v\ DRY
SHAVER
Without Electricity, Soap, Water, Brush
or Blades. This fully guaranteed non-
electric precision instrument is a useful /
substitute for your Viceroy
Shaver during Blackouts. The
ideal companion for a man when
travelling and on holiday camping
trips. Keep one in the glove box T'
of your car and shave where you like V ..
when you like. Remember you need
no electricity, soap, water or blades to op-
etate the Viceroy Non-Electric Dry Shaver,
£6lOO
ds
The famous
One Blade Safety , . .
Equipped with ofic hollow ground blade
which, with proper care and attention, will
last for many years. This self stropping,
self honeing Rolls Safety Razor has main-
tained its prestige and given perfect satis-
faction to countless thousands of men the
world over for more than a quarter of a
century.
Rolls Razor products are obtainable from all leading Stores, Chemists and
Tobacconists. If your local dealer is unable to supply, write, direct to us and we will
see that your requirements are sent Post Free to any address in the Commonwealth.
Cigarette Lighter Repair Service!
If your cigarette lighter is out of action because of damaged
or broken parts, we can repair it for you from our range of
spare parts for every well-known brand of Lighter. The
cost is low and we can offer a 48 hour service on repairs.
ROLLS RAZOR
QUEENSLAND: The
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
8a CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY • TELEPHONE BW 2038
Interstate Representatives: . ul ,
Rolls Razor Co. of Aust. Pty. Ltd., 77 Queen Street, Brisbane. VICTORIA and TASMANIA: Godfrey Phillip (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., Drury Lane, Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Harris, Scarfe & Sandover Ltd., Hay Street, Perth. SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Cornell Ltd., Pirie Street, Adelaide. 8
