

EXTRA
A PRODUCT OF THE
j
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 70- No. 3623
Wednesday, July 20, 1949
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
TN the eighth century Thetford was the
metropolis of the East Angles, and
at that time had many religious founda-
tions, including eight monasteries and
twenty churches. When the Danes
invaded England during the reign of
Ethelred I (866-871) they established
their headquarters at Thetford, which
they burned and sacked in a.d. 870. At
a very early period there appears to have
been an abbey at Thetford, for King
Edred (946-955), the grandson of Alfred
the Great, ordered a large number of the
inhabitants of Thetford (or Thetforda,
as it was then called) to be slaughtered
in revenge for the death of the Abbot
whom they had killed.
The tribulations of Thetford continued
into the eleventh century, for the, town
was fired by the Danes in 1004 and again
in 1010. During the reign of William the
Conqueror (1066-1087) the Bishopric of
East Anglia was in Thetford, but in 1094
it was transferred to Norwich. Follow-
ing this event a Cluniac Priory was
founded in Thetford by Roger Bigod,
friend and counsellor of the Conqueror
and his sons who reigned after him. This
old soldier (Bigod) considered his sins
and made up his mind to go on a pil-
grimage to Jerusalem, but was persuaded
instead to establish a monastery for the
Cluniac Monks. The foundation stone
was laid in 1104 near the Church of St.
Mary. Soon after completion, however,
the site was considered unsuitable, and
it was therefore moved to the Norfolk
side of the River Ouse on the site where
the here now stand.
These walls saw a shocking act of
violence in 1248, when the Prior, after an
all-night orgy, as was his usual custom,
ipsulted one of the monks, who retali-
ated by plunging a knife into him. When
the crime came to the knowledge of'tfie
King, Henry 111, he ordered the murderer
to be chained, deprived of his sight and
thrown into the lowest dungeon in the
Castle of Norwich.
THETFORD PRIORY RECALLS ANCIENT BRITANIN


IslorM WriOTg
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 249
AGE
The Red Page
PURITANS ON PARADE.
Beating, around the bush with scholar-
ship, ingenuity and even charm, Pro-
fessor Kathleen Fitzpatrick, in a Mel-
bourne University Press booklet called
The Puritans and the Theatre, manages to
avoid striking any more than perfunc-
torily at the root of Puritan opposition
to the stage. She succeeds in demonstrat-
ing, firstly, that all Puritans were not illi-
terate ; secondly, that Puritan animus was
not directed specifically against the writ-
ing of plays. Neither of which observa-
tions anti-Puritans would be concerned
to deny.
There is, it is true, a prevalent notion
that Puritans were strange fellows, wear-
ing queer hats, patched coats and-trousers
worn at the knees through continual
prayer, orating phrases from the Old
Testament. Extreme prejudice even con-
cocts a vision of the Puritan parties, upon
the triumph of the Commonwealth, rush-
ing maniacally around the countryside
making bonfires of the First Folio and
the collected works of Jonson. As Pro-
fessor Fitzpatrick’s energy is devoted to
disproving such fantasies, she completely
misses the significance of the 1572 statute
which labelled all actors without the pro-
tection of a nobleman as ‘'rogues and
vagabonds.”
Her basic error lies in refusing to
recognise, in Granville-Barker’s words,
that “acting ’is not only the original art
of the theatre; it remains its peculiar
foundation.” For the most part, she
forgets that, in discussing theatre, she is
supposed to be talking about organisa-
tions of actors, not about authors who
published plays.
Moreover, in Elizabethan and Jacobean
playhouses, the majority of dramatists
were also actors or, if not, at least work-
ing-men of the theatre and indistinguish-
able from actors. No strict line divided
them, let alone a gulf, as is often the case
today. Professor Fitzpatrick’s lack of
acquaintance with the history of actors
and acting leads her to the astonishing
conclusion that “the rank - and - file
English Puritan was not by nature or
religion or principle hostile to the
theatre.”
Hostility to the theatre was not, how-
ever, a Puritan .innovation ; as Professor
Fitzpatrick sensibly points out, it could
not be blamed entirely on the peculiarities
of Independent and Presbyterian worship.
Even the 1572 statute could not be dubbed
the handiwork of a Puritan Parliament,
although it yields to reasonable interpre-
tation as a concession to Puritan influ-
ence ; and, significantly, the Puritan
attacks were launched in full force not
much later. .
Forgetting the fact that the aristocracy
had consistently patronised actors during
ten centuries of ecclesiastical opposition —
the mystery and miracle plays were only
interlopers in the theatrical tradition —
Professor Fitzpatrick complains that the
theatre stood with the Crown during the
struggle between King and Parliament.
Thereby, she proclaims, “it saved its skin
but lost its soul.” A pretty phrase ; but
exactly what she means is hard to grasp.
Apparently she is suggesting that the
theatre would have been a far worthier
social and artistic unit if it had conformed
to Puritan wishes and.stopped operating.
The Professor should recall that, only
for the aristocracy, Shakspeare would
have been either slung into jail or forced
to stay in Stratford and labor at some
business which gratified the mercantile
ideals of Puritanism. The 1572 statute
was designed to prevent potentially re-
spectable members of society lapsing into
the beggarliness and frivolity of a
theatrical occupation.
Professor Fitzpatrick is a little sour that
Elizabethan actors escaped the jurisdic-
tion of the Common Council by building
on the far bank of the Thames. She
quotes Chambers: “It is certain that the
players were not permanently excluded
from the city.” Nevertheless, to borrow
something of Sir Edmund’s peremptory
style in this passage, it is just as certain
that they were temporarily excluded from
the city and a means of earning their live-
lihood. Professor Fitzpatrick opines that
the banning of public performances was
primarily a health precaution: the city
was dangerously overcrowded ; and play-
houses were the haunts of diseased street-
women and the breeding-grounds of
plagues. Yet the benevolent care with
which the City Fathers watched over the
health of the populace does not appear
to have extended to the excreta-laden
gutters or the rat-infested merchandise-
stores which sheltered a good deal of the
gentlemen’s wealth.
In 1737, a similar sally occurred against
the theatre ; it was of middle-class, neo-
Puritan origin and the work of Sir Robert
Walpole. As everyone knows, Walpole
was the first English Prime Minister and
therefore a great man and, above all, a
gentleman. Walpole was so worried
about the health of the people in George
the First’s perilously overcrowded London
that he accepted donations from quarters
unmentionable to assist in preserving his
own inestimable wellbeing.
A scurrilous scribbler of lewd plays, a
base fortune-hunter of meagre academic
attainments, one Flenry Fielding, dis-
covered this penchant of the Prime
Minister and his colleagues for keeping
gold pieces near their persons in order to
ward off evil spirits. Rashly attributing
base motives to these unquestionably
honest statesmen, he proceeded to poke
fun at them in a series of rude burlesques.
But Walpole, the Lord Mayor and all the
industrious trading folk of London saw
that Fielding was only the Devil’s agent,
corrupting the youth and worshipping
gods which were not the gods of the City.
Therefore they were not afraid. Walpole
struck at Fielding with the Licensing Act
of 1737, in which he insisted that anyone
wanting to present a stage entertainment
must first obtain the approval of the Lord
Chamberlain, and, by so doing, virtually
limited the number of playhouses in the
London area to two.
It is not recorded just how many deaths
and illnesses were saved by this masterly
regulation in the interests of public wel-
fare, but at least Henry Fielding was
forced to' give up writing plays. Fortun-
ately he wrote novels instead.
Ben lonson’s fierce satirical attacks on
Puritanism cause Professor Fitzpatrick
much chagrin. According to her,
although only flimsy evidence is sub-
mitted to support the claim, Jonson’s
stage Puritans were untruthful. Well, by
these standards, so were Shakspeare’s
portraits of the English Kings, not to
mention those historical figures abso-
lutely distorted by a vain imagination,
Macbeth and Lear, to say nothing of the
graven images constructed by Michel-
angelo. . . , .
Further, Professor Fitzpatrick holds,
“Puritans were habitually and maliciously
maligned on the Jacobine and Caroline
stages”—a statement which may be fairly
dismissed as straightforward Puritan par-
tisanship. There is a big difference be-
tween satirical representation and gross
misrepresentation. Aristophanes lam-
poon of Socrates possibly falls into the
latter class; to the former belong, say,
Pope’s assault on poor Colley Cibber and
Byron’s caricature of Southey, in both of
which it is a simple matter to sift the
chaff of artistic exaggeration from the
grains of truth. Similarly with the Puri-
tans as revealed in Stuart drama.
Professor Fitzpatrick is not at all per-
suasive when she pretends, in so many
words, that Jonson and the rest were a
bunch of outrageous liars; indeed, she
strangely confuses the issue with informa-
tion to the effect that some Puritans could
read and write and that some attended
the university. It would have been nearer
the point if she had tried to remove from
Puritanism the stain of humanistic scorn
flung by Nashe and his fellow-pamphle-
teers in the late years of Elizabeth’s reign.
In the notorious 1642 ordinance the
Professor protests that there was “no ob-
jection to the theatre or drama as such.”
On this basis, we must admit that, in
Nazism, there was “no objection to
freedom of speech as such.” Hitler never
expressed himself against liberty in the
abstract; he merely murdered anybody
who publicly contradicted him and burnt
all books which refused to toe the party
line.
The 1642 ordinance is plain: “Public
stage-plays shall cease and be foreborne.’
The excuse is that such a prohibition
will assist in appeasing “the wrath of
God” appearing in the “judgments”
which threaten England and Ireland with
a “cloud of blood.” “Instead of which,”
the ordinance concludes, “are recom-
mended to the people of this land, the
seasonable and profitable considerations
of repentance, reconciliation and peace
with God, which probably may produce
outward peace and prosperity and bring
again times of joy and gladness to these
nations.”
Starving and scourging are strongly
advised; and the land might be said to
have deserved the epitaph Plautus is
credited with inventing for himself:
“After Plautus died, comedy mourned,
the stage is deserted ; then laughter, mirth
and jest all wept in company.”
Professor Fitzpatrick’s courage is envi-
able. In spite of the Parliamentary com-
mand of October 22, 1647, that all
common players found acting should be
imprisoned and proceeded against at the
next Sessions of the Peace as rogues;
in spite of the law of February 9, 1648,
empowering the Lord Mayor and Sheriffs
to pull down all stage-galleries, seats and
boxes ; in the face of her admission that
one playhouse was destroyed and the in-
teriors of the remainder were dismantled ;
in the face of her statement that actors
were reduced to poverty-stricken out-
casts ; regardless of it all, she asserts,
with joyous irrelevance, that the Govern-
ment was not “hostile to the drama as
such.” , .
For Cromwell, she offers the defence
that his Government was shaky and re-
quired artificial protections ; but this, of
course, is not a justification, only an ex-
planation. She takes it that/ the words of
a Shakspearean character represent Shak-
speare’s personal views, a curious miscon-
ception to which even Shaw was liable.
She 'pictures Ford, Massinger and even
Beaumont and Fletcher as propagandists
inciting the multitude to prurient thoughts
and behavior. She suggests that the play-
wrights themselves caused the banning of
theatre by being deliberately dirty-
minded. She applauds the toleration of
the tottering Protectorate for allowing
D’Avenant to stage an opera in 1658,
which is too much like making a whole
summer of a single swallow.
She cites George Moore as saying that
“If ever a religious movement may be
said to have brought a literature along
with it, then Puritanism is that one” ; but,
marking down “Paradise Lost” to Puritan
influence, which is what Moore asks, she
surely realises that on this basis the Jews,
backed by the Old Testament, or the
Roman Catholics, with Dante to offset
Milton and a dozen lesser authors of St.
Augustine’s stature to pit against poets
like Marvell, would easily beat the Puri-
tans when it comes to both the total
quantity and average quality of writings.
While most of Professor Fitzpatrick’s
reasons for the lack of Puritan dramatic
literature are sensible, the final one is
painfully naive: “The true Puritan had
enough drama in his own life without
seeking it in the playhouse.” Perhaps
she considers that Ben Jonson—who
fought as a soldier in the Netherlands,
killed a fellow-actor in a duel, was im-
prisoned for some months in the
Tower and was perpetually scrapping
with fellow-authors as well as with
the Puritans —led the life of a recluse.
Or that Cervantes —who had his left
hand almost shot away in battle, was
held in slavery by the infidels for eight
years, and, in his later days, spent several
sojourns in prison for debt —daydreamed
in a bucolic retreat.
Or that Lope de Vega—the real founder
of the Spanish theatre, who sailed with
the Armada, was banished for circulating
criminal libels against his mistress, and
later got involved in numerous court
intrigues—retired while still a boy to the
monastery where he is known to have
ended his life. Or that Benvenuto Cel-
lini should have said: “My own life is
my autobiography; therefore I won’t
bother writing a book about it.”
Professor Fitzpatrick’s final thrust is a
quotation from Samuel Pepys, an amus-
ing fellow who cheated his wife, deceived
his superiors, had an escapade with one of
the King’s mistresses, broke practically
every vow he ever made, was fond of
seduction as a pastime and reaped enor-
mous pleasure from watching actresses
undress. Shame! Poor Sam would have
been distinctly alarmed to see his stray
opinions called upon as witness to the
wisdom of the Puritans.
ALLAN ASHBOT.
THREE POEMS...
Robert D. FitzGerald
The Fakir.
The fakir upon his bed of nails
is happier than is thought.
Toughness of hide can blunt more ills
than could be dodged or fought:
the lesson is well taught.
And happiness, pivoted elate
on peace of mind, health, sleep,
food, kindred, good support like that,
knows too where wounds could creep
or suddenly sink deep.
Clad World.
Toss out the broken chairs :
thus we progress!
And still the new methods, new wares,
concern us less
than the old needs and laughters, the
whole affairs
untidiness.
Efficiency should complete
the set tasks row by row,
ends tied and neat.
Living is not done so;
its tramplings cross, circle, repeat —
in a glad world, to know.
Everywhere—good to find —
is work in the rough.
Life picks up, leaves behind,
thoughts broken off,
unfinished efforts of mind • . .
Death will be tidy enough.
Limitation.
I use this life to live in; I need
eight more
for learning and ambition and to
explore
where necessary haste
went by so fast
that there was only a vision, never
proved,
of wider living: trees opening as one
moved
showed it; and it was cut
by trees that shut.
Knowledge was like a leak which hands
must stop;
since all the ocean’s beyond it: one salt
drop
only, is safe to drink,
lest the mind sink.
And action, earlier, climbing the hill’s
crest
with back to the east, saw roads run
south and west
which would be lost henceforth
if one turned north.
But with wind blowing about him what’s
for a man
except press on towards breakfast while
he can ?
This hunger the gods give,
this once to live.
New Art Magazine.
Art and Design (Ure Smith Pty., Ltd.,
Sydney) could be described either as a
magazine or a book, and it is intended
to fulfil the purposes of both. It is to
come out twice a year and will pro-
vide, apparently, a running commentary
on Australian artistic activities.
Apart from representing painting, drawing
and sculpture, we are anxious to show the
development of art applied to industrial
design and in manufactured goods. Interior
decoration and architecture are two subjects
we also wish to cover.
The first number is bound in boards,
printed on good paper and includes a
number of color-plates as well as black-
and-white reproductions. It sells at one
guinea (two guineas annually), plus post-
age. It is edited by Sydney Ure Smith,
with Professor Joseph Burke as honorary
editor for Victoria.
The new format and title make it clear
that the publication hopes to stand on its
own feet as an entirely new venture ; but
it seems, in part, intended to fill the gap
left by the deaths of two earlier maga-
zines, “Art in Australia” and “The
Home” as it used to be before the war.
No doubt the more it resembles “The
Home” the wider its appeal is likely to
be; but artists and their supporters will
be chiefly interested to see how satisfac-
torily Art and Design can replace Art
in Australia,” for there is a great need
for a successor to that noble publica-
tion. . . .
In Sydney, at any rate, art criticism
hardly exists. Some of the dailies have
fallen silent; and from the others we
have, rather than criticism, art politics,
the boosting of one particular group of
contemporaries and the knocking-down
of all who, now or in the past, have
painted differently.
Insofar as the little magazines which
might do something to restore the bal-
ance take an interest in art, the same
narrowness persists. It is not so long
since we had Mr, Bernard Smith, in one
of the little papers, reproaching Gruner
for the crime of painting “well-lea
lambs”: and this is art politics. For art
criticism must surely agree that a tat
lamb, if Gruner did paint them, is quite
as paintable a subject as a lean lamb . • •
Neither in the dailies, then, nor m tlu
little magazines, is there a place where
the great Australian tradition of the past
may be defended or even "'he '- * 1
may be reproduced to speak-
selves ; and contemporary a ’ s wm> a
not paint according to
down for them by the i orta '
have neither a critic to sy. —rk lor
nor a magazine where the ■ 11
study at leisure the works ccncleo
ignored in the newspapers. ’Art. in Aus-
tralia,” with the breadth
of its great days, certai >’ ocjs
reviving. ,
Art and Design could, 1 ‘ - ria
{Red Page continued o i '■B -


“TRUTH «IN ADVERTISING"
ITMV HORDERNS’
Right:
Roll top desk with pigeon
hole top, 3ft. x 2ft. with one
drawer 3ft. x Sin. deep, strongly
constructed and finished in rich
walnut colour. Price, £20/13/3
Furniture
m
'
m
*
M
■
-- i
— — -X
■ x;M'.
-
IB
■
-
'' s i
/+ V
■
-
Above:
Combination
telephone set, with
drawer, bookshelves
and seat. In natural
maple and walnut
colours ... £lO/3/9
for the Office and Home
Above:
Telephone Set. 22in.
x I Sin. x 28in., drawer;
chair, tapestry uphol-
stered. Price, £ll/13/3
. .
JBh—■—
Left.
Office desk, 4ft. Gin. x
2ft. Gin., two drawers
fitted with locks, solid
top. Finished in med-
ium oak. Price, £B/12/9
'- ' M
. ti I
11
I - iii I
is . ■ ■
■ ■ -■ - •:'£
'
I >
Le/t;
Student’s writing desk, 3ft. x 2ft., book-
shelves either end, middle drawer, solid.
Light/dark oak finish. Price, £B/10/9
Right:
Office cushions, “D” shape, buttoned,
piped. Red, green and rust tapestry.
Priced at 25/- each
u.
Above:
Semi-circle
Elizabethan hall
table, 30in. x 15in.
x 28in., polished
in two.-tone oak.
Price, £4/6/- each
Left:
Hall telephone
table, 2 drawers,
28in. x 16|in. x
BOin. Cedar top
and colour. Priced
at £lB/8/- each
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FURNITURE DEPT.—THIRD FLOOR. TELEPHONE: M 2401. BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


The Bulletin
Vol. 70—No. 3623
Wednesday, July 20, 1949
HARD TO SWALLOW.
Little Miss Muffet sat on a tuffet
Eating her words—and how!


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralxa : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
"GET COAL OR GET OUT.”
At the opening of the third week of the
coal strike the faces of the Canberra
“pinks” turned red indeed. Nobody from
Mr. Chifley downwards expected the sen-
tences imposed on Communist union
bosses for contempt of court. The
machine beat the inventors. The dish
ran away with the spoon.
For the Arbitration Court has not yet
used the penalties under the Chifley-Evatt
National Emergency (Coal Strike) Act
for breach of provisions of the new
legislation. It has been sentencing union
leaders to prison for up to 12 months and
fining organisations up to £2OOO for
contempt of court, arising from refusal
to obey court orders to pay into court
sums illegally withdrawn from bank ac-
counts or to say where they are. “You
have set yourselves against the law,” said
Judge Foster. “You must not complain
if the law fights back.” The law “fought
back” by doubling—in the contempt
sentences on Williams and Grant —the
maximum penalties imposed under the
Emergency Act for the offence of giving
financial support to the strike. As an
interesting parallel, the Taft-Hartley
Labor Management Relations Act (1947)
of the U.S. Congress provides for punish-
ment of contumacy or the impeding of
the Labor Relations Board in the per-
formance of its duty by a fine of 5000
dollars and a year’s imprisonment. Some-
body seems to have been consulting that
much-criticised but efficient statute.
The Chifley Government is dealing
with the strike as a national emergency
without proclaiming it as such. It has
not banned the right to strike in a Gov-
ernment-controlled industry, but it is
treating support of the strike as an
offence. Indeed, Ministers have been
openly stating that this is more than a
strike —that it is an act of civil war
organised by a foreign Power. Mr.
Chifley’s own half-page advertisement in
the Australian daily Press on July 2 de-
clared :
This strike is a revolt against the whole
community The Communist section of
the miners’ leaders want no law but their
own, and are recklessly ready to sabotage
Australian industry.
The very utterance seems to have
frightened him into avoiding any repeti-
tion of it, but he did say it. His col-
league “Fixer” Ashley put this on record
two days later;
This is a Communist-inspired strike. The
Communist miners’ leaders are trying to
implement a foreign Power’s policy.
At the A.L.P. conference in Maitland,
two days before Williams and Grant were
sentenced, the resolution carried by 230
delegates under the Chifley and McGirr
banners read:
The present hold-up on the coalfields is
part of a world-wide plan deliberately or-
ganised by a foreign Power for the express
purpose of destroying democratic forms of
government and all opposition to the
establishment of a Communist-party dic-
tatorship.
The Communist party, through the con-
trol of the administration of certain trade-
unions, is seeking to give effect to this
plan in Australia.
The present coal strike has been inspired
and brought about by the Communist sec-
tion of the mine leaders as part of this
plan. The rank-and-file membership of the
Miners’ Federation have been misled by
their Communist officials
We pledge our support to State Govern-
ments in any action they might take for
the protection of the community and the
maintenance of law and order.
That declaration must be regarded as
an all-time record for any “Labor” meet-
ing. It is ip complete accord with every-
thing said by the Opposition in Parlia-
ment (and there derided by “Labor”), or
by “the enemies of the working-class,” or
by “the capitalist Press.” It was fittingly
capped by the exhortation to the confer-
ence from McGirr’s Minister for Works:
“If ‘Labor’ can’t get coal, it has no alter-
native but to vacate office.” He added
the abject confession;
The Communists were allowed to get
control of the coalfields because members
of the “Labor” party were willing to sit
down and do nothing about it.
These Socialist admissions are of first
importance for two reasons. The first is
that they present to the public a warning,
now backed by every political party, of
the seriousness of this threat to our Aus-
tralian destiny and way of life. We
know henceforth the purpose of the
current “industrial unrest” both here
and in Britain. It is mounting civil war
against the democracy of the British Com-
monwealth,
The second consideration is the
adequacy of the steps being taken by the
Governments concerned to deal with the
menace. It should be noted at the outset
that, on the day the*strike began, the
Melbourne Press published an inspired
statement from Canberra that “the Com-
monwealth Government has been advised
it is powerless to proclaim an effective
state of emergency” because “relevant
sections of the Crimes Act apply only to
transport industries.” The Maitland
A.L.P. conference resolution pledged sup-
port only to State Governments in any
action they might take to protect the
community. However, if the watersiders
and seamen, or the Communist-run
branch of the A.R.U. in Victoria, should
join the strike, the difficulty in the Crimes
Act discovered by Dr. Evatt’s department
should vanish, and Federal Ministers will
be expected to furnish every aid to, for
instance, the Hollway Government in Vic-
toria if it meets trouble from other unions
with operation in efforts to beat the strike.
“ ‘Labor’ must get coal or get out,”
says Mr. Cahill, admitting at last what
The Bulletin has been saying for three
years. What has Mr. Chifley done so
far to get coal?
He has passed his Act freezing strike-
funds.
He has advertised widely and daily in
the newspapers telling the miners to “go
back to arbitration,” which their leaders
have as often contemptuously replied they
will never do.
He has decided, in conference with Mr.
McGirr, of N.S.W., to move about half a
day’s normal consumption of coal lying in
trucks on the coalfields, with aid of troops
if necessary.
He has ordered coal from overseas.
He has sanctioned the raiding of Com-
munist headquarters in Sydney by Com-
monwealth and N.S.W. police.
Just as his last-hour conversion to the
idea that the strike is being run by
Moscow’s agents owes a debt to Mr.
Menzies’s speeches on the coalfields last
March, so also the Liberal-Country-party
leaders in Canberra and the Parliaments
of the industrial States have pointed the
way to every action the Federal Govern-
ment has so far undertaken. It was Mr.
Hollway in Victoria who first imported
coal, and who first announced action to
“get coal” by unloading a “black”
collier in Melbourne. It was the Liberal
leaders who called for union oversight
by the court of union ballots and for
action against union funds. “Labor” in
Parliament scoffed, blocked their efforts,
and gagged them into silence. Nothing
that the Chifley Government has been
gingerly doing since the recess was not
urged upon it for months by a frustrated
minority in Parliament under Mr.
Menzies and Mr, Fadden.
But available coal at grass will not be
more than a potboiler, nor, for that
matter, would opencut coal workings at
full pressure. Some definite offensive
action against the blockade of the coal-
mining industry cannot be much longer
postponed. Ministers cannot denounce
the Communist strike-leaders as rebels
against the community and saboteurs
of industry at Moscow’s behests with-
out taking all possible action to lay them
by the heels. Among the things Mr.
Chifley has been urged to do are to
Ban the Communist party as illegal.
Legislate to disqualify any Communist
from executive position in a trade-union.
Require the Miners’ Federation to elect
new leaders under a secret ballot of all
members, and then call on those leaders
to get the men back to work.
By one means or another to get coal,
even if it means drafting immigrant (D.P.)
mining labor into the mines.
Legislate for emergency measures not
merely during the currency of this Com-
munist rebellion, but permanently against
any recurrence of a renewed attempt to
“sabotage Australian industry.”
Only two months ago Mr. Chifley,
replying to the Deputy-Leader of the
Opposition in Parliament, said that any
Federal commission of inquiry into Com-
munism “would be futile.” The Hollway
Government’s inquiry in Victoria is re-
vealing itself as anything but futile. The
Prime Minister will almost certainly have
to call Parliament together to deal with
the emergency ; it is there that the country
is entitled to be told of his change of
front, and not in the advertisement pages
of the Press,
This strike cannot end in-compromise.
There can be no compromise with out-
laws on whether the country’s laws shall
be obeyed. A compromise settlement—
that supine show called the A.C.T.U.
executive keeps on muttering about “a
formula” —would only perpetuate the
trouble. This is the showdown. “Labor”
can no longer buy cards to build up a
new hand from the exhausted pack of its
party principles as familiarised over the
past 25 years. If it is inherently cap-
able of playing a strong hand, even sup-
posing it held one, then all its past,
timorous, stupid temporising with the
Communists, has belied its character.
Not Politics—Treachery.
The coal strike is not merely another
strike organised by Communist disturbers
to bring the coal-owners or the Federal
Government or the Australian people to
heel.
It is, just as specifically as any other
move of the Communist party, part of
the tactics of world revolution. It is timed
to fit in with the disturbances in Japan
which are being fanned by the incitement
of the Communist leader in China, Mao,
who has suddenly flung aside the pretence
that his Communism has nothing to do
with Russian Communism, and avowed
himself part of the Soviet bloc which
acknowledges the leadership of Moscow.
It is timed to accord with the British
dockers’ strike which has led to the de-
claration of a state of national emergency
in the United Kingdom, and with the
dollar crisis from which Moscow hopes
to reap world chaos which will further
the Kremlin’s imperialist aims.
There need be no doubt about the in-
ternational character of what is happen-
ing here. The way to Communism for a
single nation, as for the whole human
race, the Marxist-Leninists teach, is
through world revolution, which will
break up “world capitalist economy.”
Chaos is created in one country, and
the Corns advance through various stages,
first to a “united people’s front” in which
they become the leaders of the unions and
can use them as their weapons, then to a
“People’s Government” like that which
prevailed in Czechoslovakia till last year,
enabling them to liquidate the police and
supplant them with a “workers’ militia,”
which helps to establish a Communist
dictatorship.
Communist policy was established in
Australia in 1930 along with the leader-
ship of Sharkey and Miles by means of
a long directive from the Comintern.
A policy was at once enunciated
locally, the very core of which was then
and always has been that this country
should be rendered helpless and at the
mercy of revolution. Part of the resolu-
tions carried out —specifically, be it
marked, on orders of Moscow dated
Oct. 13, 1929—at the ninth congress of
the Communist Party of Australia in-
cluded a directive that “the immediate
duty” of the Communist party included
“organisational preparations” to use
“mass action (demonstrations, strikes,
etc.)” to check “war preparations,” with
a view to “eventually turning imperialist
war” into a-workers’ struggle for power.
Australian Communists were ordered
to attempt to smash arbitration —that
order came from Losovsky himself at the
Vladivostok conference of 1929, and
again and again in specific directives pub-
lished in the Australian Communist Press
in succeeding ’ years, so that when the
time came to act in a war situation there
would be no machinery to hold them
up in their treasonable purposes.
After his visit to Moscow in 1930,
Sharkey made it plain that a world-wide
policy of strikes, to disorganise defence
industries of the country which the
Kremlin desired to destroy, were being
initiated to further the Comintern’s pur-
poses.
He reported that Moscow’s R.I.L.U.
congress had ordered that the struggle
against capitalism should be “completely
internationalised”; that workers every-
where should “mobilise the wide' mass of
the proletariat” to give effect to a policy
of which the basic theme was that “the
defence of the U.S.S.R. is the self-
defence of the workers of the whole
world,” and that therefore “congress calls
upon all branches of the Red Interna-
tional to intensify their activities among
the masses to transform every works and
every factory into a fortress of revolu-
tion.”
Sharkey reported further that the “first
struggle had been conducted at Lodz in
Poland.” He mentioned that “in Britain
in the Bradford textile strike the
R.I.L.U. had certain successes, and had
been able to bring the masses into action
despite the opposition of the British
Trades Union Council.” He asserted that
the R.I.L.U. had organised, under
Moscow’s orders and supervision, a stop-
page in industry at Mansfeld in the Ruhr,
and another on the coalfields of Illinois,
and that the report of operations in the
1929-30 strike on the N. S. Wales coal-
fields had been cheered at the congress.
He added: —
The congress gave directions for the
politicalisation of strikes. The solidarity
strike is the most important starting-point
for developing individual struggles into the
purposeful struggle of class against class.
The R.I.L.U. adherents must at all
costs carry out the policy of “down to the
masses” Every factory must become a
fortress. Thus congress placed in the fore-
front of its programme the defence of die
Workers’ Fatherland, the U.S.S.R., against
all attempts at intervention, and the
resolute opposition to imperialist war.
The congress gave “directions for the
guidance of Comrades of various sections
on how to proceed along the line of
Leninist policy,” and generally “co-
ordinated the international struggles of
the proletariat,” One of the first things
which ensued in Australia was the Com-
munisation of the coalminers under the
guidance of a delegate to Moscow who
had been there with Sharkey—one Orr.
The programme in general adopted
then has been carried out purposefully
ever since.
The constant present-day flitting back-
ward and forward of Sharkey’s offsiders
to Moscow—his second-in-command has
been there within the past few weeks —
tells its own story, and shows why, to-
day as in 1930, Sharkey is urging {vide his
report to the fifteenth congress of his party
in May last year) that the world “is di-
vided into two camps, that of the peace-
loving truly democratic forces headed by
the Soviet Union and that of the imperial-
ists, headed by the Wall-street billion-
aires.” It makes it clear also why, still in
line with the policy laid down openly and
expressed in irrefutable official Soviet
Union and Australian Communist Party
documents, Sharkey and his followers
advocate—again to quote his report of
last year—that “the Australian people
have no interest to serve in pursuing a
policy hostile to the Soviet Union,” and
proclaim support for “the glorious efforts
to the Soviet people to build a new
society,” and the “policy of the Soviet
Union, which stands for peace and pro-
gress and opposes the world-domination
plans of the imperialists”—Australia
being one of the imperialists—and de-
mands that “we must work to separate
the masses from the Right-wing leaders,”
as one of the measures against British
and American warmongers and for the
purpose of defending the Soviet Union.
Sir Hartley Shawcross, the Attorney-
General of the United Kingdom, has
stated the case against the Communists,
as well as the issues involved in their sup-
pression, accurately and forcefully. He
said, on July 9, that “unofficial strikes
were an act of economic and political
treason to the Labor movement and to
the country”:
The Communists announced their deli-
berate intention to smash the Marshall
Plan, and in all countries they are pursuing
the same methods.
They are pursuing them here in Aus-
tralia, their propaganda being couched
in the same terms as it is in Moscow
and London. And it is \just as true of
Australia as it is of Britain to say,
as the British Attorney-General does, that
we “must kill the Communist attack on
our democracy or lose our freedom.”
The present methods in vogue will not
do it. Communism will never be killed
while the Communist party is treated as
a legitimate political party. Its policy
is synonymous with treachery and
violence. In its war on its enemies it
knows no ethical limitations. It has no
regard for truth, and can only be dealt
with by treating those who organise it as
what they are and getting rid of them.
If the Constitution does not give the
Government power to do this it should
ask for power by referendum, so that
those of the present leaders whose
spiritual home is the Kremlin can be sent
to some place in which their efforts are
more appreciated than they are by the
unfortunate women, children, sick and
aged of Australia who are suffering
just now in the cause of Holy Russia’s
imperialist war on the civilised world.
Even Mercy Must Cease.
The Far West Children’s Health Scheme
has been forced to halt its main activities.
The bare statement may not convey
much to people harried by the coal strike
and themselves short of fuel, lighting,
transport and even a job. But to
hundreds of children in the country who
are sorely in need of medical attention
it could mean the difference between re-
covery and permanent ill-health. Be-
cause of the coal strike and the conse-
quent restrictions on rail travel, the
F.W.C.H.S. has had to:
Cancel arrangements made for admission
to hospitals of afflicted children; adopt
emergency measures to return treated chil-
dren to their homes; stop admitting new
patients to the Drummond Home at Manly,
where there are now 116 children, including
some spastics; carry on the home under
great difficulties because of the cooking and
lighting restrictions Of the supply of coke
runs out it will be impossible to run the
home); cut out much of the field work
because the nurses cannot get to their
districts without trains and the rail clinic
cars cannot ran.
The only service that can carry on is
the mobile dental clinic, which travels by
car. Incidentally, on the tour just con-
cluded the honorary dentist, Dr. Walter
Weam, saw 355 patients, filled 685 teeth
and drew 796, all of children in localities
without dental services. The next tour
began last Monday in northern N.S.W.
beyond Collarenebri.
The scheme is non-political. It
merely asks outback people to understand
why its activities have had to halt for the
time being. But the cause is political—
a strike planned long ago by Communists
who have been encouraged by weak
“Labor” Governments into believing they
are above the law and can bring
disaster to the nation without fear of
punishment.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Full Unemployment.
Unnoticed in the shambles which the
Communists’ “cold war” is making of
Australian industry, the basic-wage case
has dropped out of sight. The Com-
munists and the unions they control seem
to be intent on making industry impotent
to pay any wages, let alone £lO a week as
a base for all wages.
The “Labor” political line last week,
led by the Prime Minister’s Press adver-
tisements, was to tell the idle miners that
they were all set to get some of their
claims granted by the Coal Tribunal, and
that the strike was called because, if those
claims had succeeded, the Communists
“would have been left without a worth-
while claim to use as an excuse for more
strife.” So wrote the Melbourne “Age”
special “war” (cold-war) correspondent
last week from Canberra.
Along Communist lines McPhillips, who
originally began leading the A.C.T.U.
case for a £lO-a-week basic wage,
attacked the court last March in so
wanton a fashion as to suggest that he
did not even want to receive any benefits
from it.
This is anti-union policy with a
vengeance.
After having maintained for nearly
three years an attitude of refusing to in-
quire into the ravages of the Communists
in industry, or their subversive activities
against the nation —refusing also even to
believe that any such plot was cooking—
the Chifley Ministry is apparently now
banking on discovering from the docu-
ments seized in the Marx House raid
evidence that will enable them to turn on
their long-suffered bedfellows in “the
movement” without penalising the unions
which have been led by the nose. In
plain language they are irrevocably com-
mitted to making this a fight to a finish
with the Communists, but they don’t
want to lose union votes by splitting the
“Labor” ranks, Mr. Calwell said on an-
other and much more joyous occasion that
the eggs in the “Labor” dish could never
be unscrambled. But “Labor” wants this
omelette made without even breaking any
eggs.
It can’t be done ; and the test of the
Chifley-McGirrs’ sincerity will come when
that truth becomes apparent to these
hitherto-contented fellow-travellers with
the Moscow revolutionaries. The price
of “Labor’s” long tolerance of treason in
its midst is the ruin of the whole socialisa-
tion plan now falling about Mr. Chifley’s
head, and especially of that “full-employ-
ment” policy which was to win the com-
ing elections.
Enormous Tax Exactions.
The Commonwealth Government openly
collected £471 million from Australian
taxpayers last year, an increase of £57
million over the 1947-48 figure, and
nearly £lOO million more than in 1946-47.
Then there was the additional tax paid in
post-office charges, etc. Income-tax col-
lections alone were £39.5 million more
last year at £272.4 million. The States
were handed back £B.B million more in
a lump of £53.5 million.
Colossal exactions from the coal-starved
community! A Commonwealth Budget
today is about seven or eight times the
size of a pre-war Budget, and income-
tax collections last year, allowing for
refunds to the States, were nearly 19
times greater than in 1938-39. Yet the
war has been over just on four years.
With his huge revenue Mr. Chifley made
the most of his vote-buying opportuni-
ties. The cost of pensions and child-
endowment rose steeply. ’Departmental
spending again went higher—administra-
tion costs have inflated 80 p.c, in the past
two years. And notwithstanding the fact
that price-subsidies have been abandoned
—an act of spite on the part of the
Chifley Government following loss of
the Prices Referendum —and cost only
£22.8 million last year, against £45.8 mil-
lion in 1947-48, Mr. Chifley did not pre-
sent the nation with the Budget surplus
that might have been expected.
But a very large concealed surplus
there must have been. An extra £2B mil-
lion was added to war-gratuity reserve
last year, and about £lO million of this
seems to have been from revenue. To the
social-security fund a net £9.9 million
was added. And £27 million, against
£15.6 million in 1947-48, was spent out
of revenue on capital works and services.
Mr. Chifley does not choose to tell the
taxpayer just how he stands as a share-
holder in the Commonwealth, Mr.
Chifley believes in telling Australians only
what suits Mr. Chifley. Otherwise the
overtaxed and socialistically-badgered
citizen might make a much shrewder
appraisal of the “qualities” of Mr.
Chifley than he has done up to the pre-
sent.
Revitalising the States.
Barrackers for the New-State Movement
who brought the Armidale convention
of last February to adoption of the
boundaries and a constitution for the
desired State of New England, in northern
N.S.W., are not allowing the movement
to rest there. Having secured the
adherence of Constitutional Associations
in most of the present States, they called
the convention which sat in Sydney this
week, whose deliberations were proceed-
ing when The Bulletin went to press.
The Liberal and Country parties
throughout Australia have the resolutions
adopted at Armidale, and their delegates
are included in the 70 or 80 representa-
tives called to the convention by the Aus-
tralian Constitutional League from wide-
spread interests in the Commonwealth,
especially in New England, Riverina and
North Queensland. The resolutions to
which speakers addressed themselves
were:
That the Federal system is essential to
the development of Australia.
That the financial independence of the
States is necessary for the maintenance of
the Federal system.
That new States are indispensable to the
rapid peopling and development of Aus-
tralia.
That the Constitution needs a revision in
the light of half a century of experience.
That a national convention should be
called to revise the working of the Constitu-
tion.
This is one of those natiorial movements
which can be only delayed, and cannot
be stifled, by the conservatism of an elec-
torate dominated by city interests. The
development of inland Australia awaits
the revitalisation of private enterprise
and investment outside the coastal cities,
development to which the Socialist
objective and the programme of central-
ised control espoused by the A.L.P. are
fatal obstructions,
A Socialist Exhilarated.
Although the writings and speeches of
Socialists abound in claims that they are
out for the greatest good for the greatest
number and that all their planning is
directed to that end, many of the leading
exponents of the creed both in this
country and in Britain seem unable to
avoid arousing the suspicion that they get
a tremendous kick out of the actual plan-
ning ; in careless moments their words
and actions suggest that they regard plan-
ning and regulating as an end in itself
instead of merely a means to an end.
A recent speech by Sir Stafford Cripps
disclosed a very good example of this
frame of mind. Britain’s financial dic-
tator told a London audience; “We are
living in an intensely interesting and ex-
hilarating time —there is never a dull
moment.” That is quite true as far as
Cripps is concerned. For him and his
fellow-Socialists this is an intensely in-
teresting time and doubtless exhilarating,
too. The bulk of the people of Britain
probably find it rather less interesting and
a whole lot less exhilarating.
Socialists who have spent a lifetime
“solving” hypothetical problems and
theorising on the proper conduct of the
Socialist State have for four years had
the supreme joy of being able to treat
the whole of the United Kingdom as a
quasi-scientific laboratory; they have had
all the resources of the nation at their
disposal and close on 50,000,000 human
guinea-pigs to experiment on. Small
wonder that they have found the experi-
ment interesting—and exhilarating. It
hasn’t been quite the same for the guinea-
pigs. Cripps himself, austere to the point
of asceticism, may well experience a fierce
glow of spiritual exaltation in urging the
pinched and attenuated John Bull to take
his belt in another couple of holes, but
he can hardly expect the long-suffering
British public to be imbued with the
same religious fervor.
If the Socialists can produce to the
young people of Britain any convincing
evidence that a few more years of priva-
tion and sacrifice will bring a reward in
the shape of a better Britain, with the
certainty, or even the strong probability,
of a place in it for the ambitious and
the enterprising, they are entitled to feel
exhilarated. But nothing that has come
out of Britain lately suggests that there
is any such evidence, or that the young
people of Britain have any such faith in
the future of their country under
Socialism. On the contrary there is every
sign that the ambitious and the enterpris-
ing are turning their thoughts elsewhere,
and hope by migrating to find in other
lands the opportunities a Socialist Gov-
ernment cannot give them in their own.
For those past middle-age Cripps and
his kind can offer no future at all. For
them each new restriction means one
more liberty lost for ever; each new cut,
one more comfort gone for good. They
know that whatever benefits may ulti-
mately result from Socialism there will
be none in their time. For them the
present is also the future, for never again
in their lifetime can Britain offer them
comforts approaching the standards of
pre-war days—the days despised by the
Socialists. It is a tragic thought, but
true enough, that millions of people in
Britain, after a lifetime of honest work
and thrifty endeavor, are faced in the
evening of their lives with the certain
knowledge that they will never again sit
down to an unrationed meal of the
standard which every Australian takes as
a matter of course. Never again will they
see much-needed winter fuel in plentiful
and unrationed supply; never again will
they know freedom from queues and
shortages.
If Sir Stafford Cripps finds that thought
interesting and exhilarating his un-
doubtedly brilliant brain has developed
at the expense of his heart.
Coal and Wheat.
What with the coal strike and the Inter-
national Wheat Agreement, wheatgrowers
aren’t too sure whether to kick them-
selves, the Federal Government or the
rabbit-inspector. The coal strike has
stopped wheat shipments for July, with
the export price at around 14s. 6d. a
bushel; wheat shipped after August 1
comes under the I.W.A. maximum of
11s. 3d. for the first year of the agree-
ment The strike will chop at least 3s.
a bushel off the last-harvest wheat now
stacked in the country.
Some of those who welcomed the
agreement, including Commerce Minister
Pollard, ought to be doing some hard
thinking. Certainly no one expected the
agreement would penalise Australian
growers before it came into operation,
but that’s what has happened because of
the coal strike. Ships that were to load
wheat in July are swinging at anchor,
idle because the 20,000,000 bushels in
country stacks and silos can’t be got
to the seaboard. And while wheat prices
are falling the farmers’ costs are rising,
latest increase being in cprnsacks, which,
the Australian Wheat Board announces,
will this season be 365. a dozen, plus sd.
margin f.o.r. capital cities. It works out
at 6s. a dozen more than last season's
price.
And H. K. Nock, the Nelungaloo
(N.S.W.) man who has been fighting for
the growers all his life, doesn’t lighten the
gloom by claiming that growers have
made price concessions totalling £67
million over the past 16 years. Nock
says the difference between the price
realised for wheat delivered to the board
between 1939 and 1948-49 and sold for
consumption within Australia, and the
price that would have been realised at
export parity, totals £96 million. From
that must be deducted relief-payments to
growers between 1931 and 1945 —about
£29 million.
Thus, -according to Nock, the grower
loses by concessional sales so that city
workers (and “Labor” voters) can have a
cheap loaf, and stock-raisers can have
cheap wheat. Now he loses because con-
suming countries have to have cheap
flour. “But no international agreement
was called to reduce the cost of fuel, oil,
tractors, netting, sacks, labor and taxa-
tion.” That, as the cocky said when the
bag-skewer ran into his hand, is certainly
a point.
Neglected Assets.
What this country ought to learn from
the present coal strike is that it will have
to exploit every possible means of alter-
native energy it can find or be for ever
under the tyranny of the deep-coalmine
Settlement of this strike can be no more
than temporary—there will be future coal
strikes, future hold-ups of industry and
interruptions to* home life, as long as we
continue to depend on deep coal for the
main source of power and light.
Two alternative sources of energy await
development— water and shallow (or
openeut) coal. Although ours is a dry
land by comparison with others, and
although it hasn’t many high places
where water can be poured over dams to
turn turbo-generators, it still has sufficient
of them to relieve the dependence on
deep coal. All down the continent’s east
coast there are short, strongly-flowing
streams capable of developing electric
power. In the light of past and present
experience no stream capable of develop-
ing 10,000 kilowatts or more should be
neglected.
In Victoria the Government is straining
every effort to throw off that State’s de-
pendency on N.S.W. deep coal. The
enormous brown-coal (openeut) deposits
in Gippsland, all the potential water-
power of the north-east are being har-
nessed to generators as quickly as pos-
sible. There is even talk of running
cables under Bass Strait to draw upon
the enormous power generated by the
Tasmanian hydroelectric scheme. On
the N.S.W. North Coast they’re con-
vinced that the Nymboida hydroelectric
system can be expanded to serve almost
a third of the State. In Queensland pos-
sibly 500 million tons of coal lie within
reach of bulldozer and electric shovel.
Power-stations should be using it. '
The great Snowy scheme, only being
talked about as yet, though the Federal
Government has enacted a bill to im-
plement it, should, when finished, de-
velop as much power per year as
4,000,000 tons of N.S.W. deep-coal—
power that can be delivered to Sydney
and Melbourne at half the cost of steam-
generation. The power stored in the
great Hume Dam is untouched.
Obtaining alternative power will cost
millions and take years. But sooner or
later it will have to be done, and if we’d
half the enterprise and courage that we
claim to have a start would have been
made long ago. The longer that start is
delayed the longer the country will be
at the mercy of deep coal, the men who
mine it and the men who use the miners
for their own un-Australian ends.
The "Labor" Split.
Progress report on solidarity:
A.R.U. in N.S.W. voted for shifting coal at
grass declared “black” by the strikers, and the
Federal president of the union went to the
Cessnock area to see the operation under way.
A.R.U. in Victoria has just voted Communists
into all important offices and is spoiling to
defy somebody or something besides the Mel-
bourne Trades Hall and the A.C.T.U.
Waterside Workers’ Federal executive and
State branch in N.S.W. leapt into support of
the miners’ strike as soon as it was called.
Watersiders in Victoria have worked hard to
get “black” coal in the Haligonian Duke’s holds
declared “white,” and in S.A. have at their
branch elections overwhelmingly defeated *very
Communist candidate for office.
The A.W.U., whose political stronghold is
Queensland, doesn’t love the southern Trades
Halls much anyway, and regards the A.C.T.U.,
with good warrant, as completely futile. Since
the A.W.U. is virtually the Queensland Govern-
ment, it is not averse to seeing the Canberra,
crowd chewed up a bit by the Communists,
remembering how it was left to fight unaidcci
against the Communist blockade of Queensland
two years ago. But King Fallon sees his houi
of triumph approaching, and is waiting to gel
Federal A.L.P. blessing for his scheme to oust
the Miners’ Federation from all control of
opencut workings throughout Australia.
The Federated Enginedrivers (F.E, T.F.A.J,
deregistered, and the locomotive drivers
(A.F.U.L.E.) faced different ways on McQirr’s
“black” coal. The A.F.U.L.E. agreed to handle
it, but the F.E.D.F.A. said it wouldn’t work in
the power-houses.
The Victorian branch of the Seamen’s Union,
regional plaything of Communist Bird, is solid
Red with all other branches. At its slopwork
meeting last week in sympathy with the indus-
trial rebels jailed by the Arbitration Court it
condemned “the Chifley Government’s vicious
attack on the working class” and the freezing
of Communist-held union funds as “indicative
of the introduction of Fascism into Australia.”
The “ ‘Labor’ movement” was in frag-
ments when the late John Curtin began
painfully pasting it together again in
1935. The price of the “solidarity” he
effected was an open go for the militants
and underhand socialisation as the objec-
tive. Mr, Curtin’s successors are now
reaping the prickly harvest from this per-
fidy towards the party’s foundation prin-
ciples. While “Labor” stuck to those early
principles, solidarity was possible.
Strike Sermon.
The Bulletin’s Religious Editor preaches
it;
Australian miners, as individuals, are pretty
good fellows, wherever you find them and
whatever they mine. Why, then, are the coal-
miners engaged in a cruel and wicked winter
strike? A strike which is npt only'a ruinous
attack on industrial arbitration, from which
the miners themselves have derived substantial
gains, arid a deadly threat to Parliamentary
government, but the obvious cause of a de-
pression, with immense loss of jobs, as in the
’thirties, and with still worse deprivations—
and no man can be sure that depression and
deprivation will end with the strike.
1 know all the conventional answers; indeed,
I can add to them.
The miners have been fed with too much
essential-industry stuff; with false notions of
their own importance and the harshness of
their lot. They have been taught to believe
that they alone, organised in unions, can and
may get coal, subject to the dictates of their
union bosses, and that no others shall. They
are swayed by a limited, though not con-
temptible, loyalty, expressed in the old adjura-
tion: “Don’t ‘scab’ on your mates.” But in
the composition of this loyalty there is fear—
fear which has never been removed by any
attempt at legal protection of men willing to
work lawfully or even a shadow of it. Fear
of the consequences of being branded as a
“scab,” of being blackguarded, ostracised, and
the wife and kids with you, by people you
have known all your life, of being hounded out
of your job, your home and your neighbor-
hood, of having to make a fresh start in a
strange place under another name. How many
of us comfortable critics of the miners would
stand up to these ferocious penalties of “scab-
bery” if we were concerned? »
Then, the miners have had no moral leader-
ship, only a choice between “Labor” pol-
troonery and Communist ruffianism. Respect-
ing courage, and even the show of it, they
have seen their “Labor” “leaders” let Com-
munist ruffianism get away with a national
boycott of the friendly Dutch in the East
Indies. They have seen the same “Labor”
“leaders” massively increase their own salaries,
provide pensions for themselves (pensions far
greater than those doled out to maimed, ailing
and aged miners) and, hoping to ensure per-
manency of place and pay, bloat the number
of electorates, in the process making the useless
Senate a 60-member superfluity instead of one
of 36. They now see these “leaders” afraid
to face them and tell them, man to man, of
their crime against Australia and “nearly broke”
Britain, from which many of them came, rely-
ing instead on remote and closed committee
(Continued on page 8.)


COMRADES.


Sui&'
m
CRAVENA
—lor your
throat’s sake!
Obtainable
in 10’s & 20's
CARRERAS LTD. - OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
tti
&
A
6744
meetings and newspaper advertisements—God
save the mark!
? Is it any wonder that what little influence
these “leaders” ever had over the miners has
been replaced by measureless contempt?
The Communist influence remains, and looks
like surviving the strike. Communism is organ-
ised envy, hate and greed, but the miners don’t
figure it that way, nor its human instruments as
minions of the Kremlin. These fellows, on the
coalfields at least, are men who have grown up
among them and are known by their Christian
names.
Besides, Communists, with the low cunning
of the breed, have realised that they can score
by pandering to the miners’ craze for gambling,
their besetting sin. The Communists bought,
and publish in Sydney, a sheet called the
“Newsletter,” which competes in the betting
field with the Sydney daily and Sunday news-
papers, all of which make racing their prin-
cipal topic and have done so throughout the
strike. So did the Newcastle “Morning Herald”
(and “Miner’s Advocate”) on the strike Satur-
day I spent there —and there were races in
Newcastle that day, as well, of course, as in
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and the rest.
Far-fetched as it may seem, I am going to
suggest that the craze for gambling, as fed
by radio-stations as well as printed rags,
is at the root of this “industrial unrest.”
Throughout the ages it has been frowned on
by philosophers and wise legislators as making
people ignorant, superstitious, selfish and reck-
less. In Australia it has reached proportions
unparalleled except in backward countries like
Mexico, Spain and Eire —Eire, “the world
forgetting, by the world forgot,” with its “Irish
sweeps.” Along with the profusion of horse-
and dog-races, four Australian Governments
run or are otherwise interested in lotteries, and
the central or uniform-income-tax Government,
while taking most of the proceeds of useful
inventions and works of art, lets lottery prizes
go untaxed.
Britain banned lotteries as “public nuisances”
in 1698 and finally prohibited them well over
a century ago. Canada and the U.S.A., the two
countries with the soundest economies in the
world today, won’t have lotteries at any price;
the U.S.A. to the extreme discomfiture of a
namesake of our Gee-Gee. Nor will Canada
have bookmakers in any of its 10 provinces,
while betting is legal only in four of the 48
American States. Can any intelligent person
concerned for his country aver that the differ-
ence is to our advantage? Can he soberly
deny that the miners are behaving, and have
behaved, like “ ‘sports’ who have lost
their tin”? Or that the strange apathy of the
people in the presence of calamity (where are
the public meetings of protest?) is an effect of
the gambling drug? “Aw, what’s it matter?
We might win the lot’ry or back the card this
week.”
POLITICAL POINTS
Once again Australia has seen the lead
for sanity in a national crisis come from
the smaller States. Miners at Rosewood
(Queensland) rejected the Communist
conspiracy early in the piece, and at the
week-end their mates at Collie (W.A.)
decided to return to work. The Rosewood
output has helped to save Brisbane from
the full effects of the strike ; the Collie
resumption will put Westralian industry
back on its feet while Sydney still
flounders in the most unnecessary depres-
sion that ever hit a country.
Some Trades Hall “formula”-seekers
for a strike settlement propose that
Chifley should nationalise the mines and
so prepare the way for the miners to go
back to work without anybody losing
face. Quite apart from the point that
this would amount to a surrender to the
Communists’ demands, Chifley himself
told the miners at Cessnock on September
5 last, in answer to questions;
There is no evidence that nationalisation
would improve the position. The miners
themselves have proved that in State-owned
mines. The Commonwealth Government
has not the constitutional power to
nationalise the coal industry.
He added that his Government intended
to nationalise only “things like public
utilities that could serve the people better
under Government control and are not
doing their best under private enterprise.”
Propaganda has a nasty habit of re-
bounding on those who start it. For
years “Labor” members have been pro-
claiming that “you can’t believe anything
you read in the capitalist Press.” Appar-
ently the miners think this applies even
to advertisements which “Labor” Prime
Ministers and Premiers place in the capi-
talist Press.
Chifley, breaking with “Labor” tradi-
tion, wouldn’t accept the verdict of the
High Court in the Banks case, and
appealed to the Privy Council. ‘But he
seems content to accept the Arbitration
Court’s methods of dealing with con-
temptuous Communists —something he
has never had the guts to practise him-
self.
Mudpuddle Martyrs, list as at Monday,
July 18: J. H. King, one month and
12 months (concurrent); L. J. McPhillips,
six months; Idris Williams, 12 months;
G. W. S. Grant, 12 months; W. Parkin-
son, 12 months; M. M. Fitzgibbons, 12
months; K. McKeon, fined £100; A, L.
Mountjoy, fined £100; J. Parkinson,
fined £100; W. T. Smith, fined £100; T.
Welsh, fined £lOO.
During a barney in the N. S. Wales
Assembly “Labor” member Enticknap
alleged that Liberal member Ellis had
been a member of the Left Book Club.
Ellis denied the imputation, and in a per-
sonal explanation said:
Some years ago for the purposes of my
studies in economics at the University, and
upon the personal solicitation of my con-
temporary student, the president of the
Left Book Club, the Attorney-General, the
Hon. Mr. Martin, I purchased some Left
Book Club publications. I have in my
hand one that was given to me by Mr.
Martin and that bears his signature.
Nothing much is heafd of the Left Book
Club these days; Clarrie Martin’s presi-
dential activities seem to have been trans-
ferred to ..the Fabian Society and his
signature to the fly-leaf of its pamphlets.
The A.W.U. seems to be proceeding
with caution on the question of its
members working opencut coal in N. S.
Wales and Queensland, although they al-
ready control the Yallourn and Leigh
Creek workings in Victoria and S.A.
“Labor” Governments in the past seem
to have given at least tacit support to the
Miners’ Federation claims that its
members should have the job in the Mc-
Girr and Hanlon States. The country
isn’t interested at all in an inter-union
squabble; all it asks is that coal be pro-
duced. If there is more chance of con-
tinuity of production by giving the open-,
cut work to a union with a sane record
than by leaving it with a Red-anted show,
the Governments should not hesitate.
Above a caption beginning “Lockout
notice handed to Bob McEwan (clipper)
in> 1929” Sydney “Tribune” printed a
photograph of a letter from Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd., to McEwan, giving him
seven days’ notice “owing to extra-
ordinary circumstances.” “S. M. Herald”
pointed out that the letter bore the date
June 20, 1949. The “Tribune,” admitting
the error, explained that its reporter in-
terviewed McEwan and was handed the
notice which
was misinterpreted as a 1929 lockout
notice instead of a 1949 dismissal notice
handed to mineworkers during the recent
floods in the north.
Obviously an example of Marx’s
Economic of History
theory,
Sydney’s Dr. Paddy Moran, author of
Viewless Winds, possessed a fine gift of
coining a pungent phrase. His namesake,
president of the Medical Association of
Ireland, seems to have the same capacity.
Speaking at the conference of his associa-
tion, he warned the Government of Eire
to proceed with caution in copying the
British medical scheme, lest “a virile,
responsible people competent to provide
for itself” be replaced by “a mob of
mental eunuchs.”
Army Minister Chambers considers it
would be a “serious and stupid action”
to ban the Communist party, because “we
would soon reach the position where we
would not know who were Communists
and who were not.” A growing number
of people believe we have reached that
position already.
Callide coalfield seems to be a will-o’-
the-wisp for Victorian politicians, A few
months ago Kent Hughes had everything
tied up for the delivery of vast quantities
of Callide coal. ■ Then something came
unstuck and Hanlon said his own State’s
needs must come first, although up till
then the story had been that there was
no limit to what the field could supply.
Anyway, Victoria didn’t get even a lump.
Next, Hollway was to make a personal
appeal; the coal strike made that move
worthless for the time being. Now
Opposition-Leader Cain has taken a hand.
One concern interested in the field
told him last week it could supply
1000 tons a day when work is resumed.
Meanwhile, Hanlon,’ broadcasting pre-
election promises on a grand scale in
Townsville, included an undertaking to
give Callide a railway to the coast —
route and date of construction not
stated.
British scientists have discovered a
method of making gold from platinum.
This should spur on the C.5.1.R.0. to
come out with a method of converting
diamonds into coal.
Announcing his resignation from the
British Labor party because he’d had
Socialism, Lord Milverton got a nasty
one home on Aneurin Bevan, Attlee’s
Minister for Health:
We have heard at Blackpool a prominent
Cabinet Minister bewailing the fact that
the moral stature of the people was not
equal to carrying out the measures intro-
duced by this Government. In simple
words, that human nature had not seen
fit to change itself at his behest.
That is the complaint of all Socialists
when their dreams go up in smoke —they
never can see the faults of Socialism.
Canberra somewhat joyfully announced
that Australia’s exports of wheat and
flour to Britain had shown big increases
for the 11 months to the end of May.
This was a sort of counter to the fact
that exports of butter, beef, mutton and
lamb were down. Canberra had better
content itself with the wheat figures
while it can. Trains have stopped carry-
ing wheat to the seaboard owing to the
coal strike, wheat ships are idle in the
ports, and all wheat shipped from Aus-
tralia after August 1 will be down about
3s. a bushel under the International
Wheat Agreement.
Not at all enamored with the position
of the wheatgrowers under “stabilisa-
tion,” the wool section of the Primary
Producers’ Union decided to oppose
financial control of wool by Canberra on
the grounds that it would lead to nation-
alisation. For all practical purposes,
that’s what has already happened to the
wheat industry.
Mr. Chifley in his “Broadcast to the
Nation” on Sunday, which was aimed at
the coalminers:
Either you forsake the law of the jungle,
which is the Communists’ creed, and return
to the proper and lawful arbitration
authority or you ally yourselves with the
world-wide movement that seeks to wreck
the democratic way of life.
Strange words from one who, a few
months ago, was describing Communism
as merely a “political philosophy” not
worth bothering about.
A reprieve has come for the pleasant
town of Tallangatta, which has been view-
ing with concern the proposal for the
enlargement of the Hume reservoir. The
two-million-acre feet were expected to
put the township a few feet under water.
The decision of the Snowy River confer-
ence to build a new dam above the Hume
may save the town.
The strike has left a lot of interesting
questions unanswered. This one,' for in-
stance, asked in the South Australian
Assembly just before the miners downed
tools;
Can the Premier inform the House
whether crumpet-bakers, who are registered
as bakers, will be ‘permitted to make
crumpets during the night period when
power is not used to full capacity, this
being their sole means of livelihood?
Playford promised to investigate the posi-
tion. Unfortunately the House adjourned
shortly afterwards leaving Adelaide
crumpet-eaters more or less in the air.
While Federal and N. S. Wales
Ministers were holding interminable con-
ferences with A.L.P. and A.C.T.U. offi-
cials to beseech permission to move coal
standing in trucks on the northern coal-
field, someone wrote to “S. M. Herald”
pointing out a provision in the Railways
Act displayed on suburban stations:
Anyone who wilfully obstructs or causes
to be obstructed the movement of a railway
carriage or truck shall be liable to im-
prisonment for three years.
Last week there were more people on
the dole in N. S. Wales than in the worst
week of the “depression” of the ’thirties.
That ought to stop Federal “Labor” mem-
bers barking about the “depression”
every time they get near a microphone,
and less may be heard about “full em-
ployment” in the future.
After trying to do it for three years
Queensland People’s party has at last de-
cided to call itself Liberal party of Aus-
tralia, Queensland division. Nobody said
so, but it’s possible that the embarrassing
nickname Kewpies, which arose from the
former initials Q.P.P., had something to
do with it.
David Rivett told a Manchester (Eng.)
audience that Australia carried a heavy
moral responsibility to help feed the
world. True enough, but it can’t do it
on a 40-hour'week, a big strike every
few weeks, and a steady drift of people
into Government jobs.
With others of his feather around him,
Bird, of the Seamen’s Union, told a
Yarra-bank crowd that the coal strike
was part of a Communist world plan.
Yet “Labor” won’t declare these orni-
thological nuisances noxious.
At Townsville Show Hanlon said he
was going to bring the Government
closer to the people by “breaking the
State into regions for administration by
departmental officials.” That’s what most
of Queensland is afraid of.
According to R, S. Melloy, retiring
president of the Brisbane Real Estate In-
stitute, real estate is “moving rapidly
from a sellers’ to a buyers’ market.” The
man ought to be careful; some bright
Government chap might see in this 1 an
excuse to keep land-sales control to stop
people buying below the peg.
As sensitive to votes as a hound to
danger. Premier Hanlon no sooner heard
of the North Queensland Development
League and its big meeting at Townsville
than he galloped up the coast to assure
everybody that they weren’t being
neglected, and his Government was about
to do all sorts of things for N.Q. The
Northerners were quite polite to him, but
it was the politeness of people who’ve
heard that sort of think before and have
become bored with it.
Hollway has told Chifley that he doesn’t
intend to tax Victorian motorists off the
road to get the money to build roads
which Chifley should pay for with the
money he takes from them as petrol tax
—and bungs into Consolidated Revenue.
Mr. Facing-both-ways Fraser, “Labor”
member for Eden-Monaro, in a radio talk
said that the miners would have to go
back to arbitration, and he believed that
when they did they would get the
things for which they struck. He said
they might have repudiated their leaders
and returned to work before now if the
Government hadn’jf passed its fund-freez-
ing legislation and prosecuted union
leaders. The first part could be con-
tempt in thus inferentially promising the
miners a favorable award by the Tri-
bunal ; the second part is contemptible;
Fraser slaps at his own party because
he’s scared stiff of losing votes.
It would have been more appropriate
as a heading for a newsletter of Crom-
well’s day, but it appeared last week as
a headline in an Australian paper: “King
Now to Serve Year’s Jail.”


SINCE 184-7
WINES
j
GOOD FOR MORE
THAN A CENTURY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Judge Foster, in the news through dis-
pensing free board and lodging to certain
union executives, made the front-pages
some years ago when, to a small boy’s’
answer from the witness-box that he
knew he would go to hell if he told
lies, he declared, in effect, hell to be
ultra vires. From Beech worth (Vic.), and
admitted to the Victorian Bar in 1908, he
had a shot at the Balaclava and Fawkner
seats for the State Labor party, and at
one tipae was its vice-president. He used
to play a nice game of tennis, representing
his State.
Argument as to whether Frank
Hurley, Sydney-born 59 years ago, is the
best photographer-turned-explorer or the
best explorer-turned-photographer isn’t
resolved by his latest book. Nosing
round the Holy, City, he has here pro-
duced a pictorial record done with
characteristic finesse and perception.
As explorer and photographer he did
splendid work with the Mawson and
Shackleton expeditions, the first South
Polarwards in 1911-1914, and the next
back that way in 1914-1917. That left
a year of World War I, which he spent
officially photographing the A.I.F. in
action. In the Middle East in 1940 he
performed the same office for that
Army’s sons. Between wars and since,
roving through Australia, thie Antarctic
again in the Discovery, New Guinea and
the Pacific, he’s put so much on film as
to have just about exhausted the possi-
bilities of still and moving photography.
Kenneth Clinton Wheare entered
Oxford as Victoria’s 1929 Rhodes
Scholar ; when he left it to tour Austra-
lian universities this month at the in-
vitation of the National University, he
was Gladstone Professor of Government
and Public Administration, had held
drown half-a-dozen other high Oxford
posts, and had been, for the last three
years of the war. Dean of its University
College. He’s’ written three books,
mainly on statecraft, and was constitu-
tional adviser to the National Conven-
tion of Newfoundland, when that
country was deciding on its future status.
All of which, at 42, amounts to a
healthy achievement. Recreation —
cooking.
Henry Lamb, Adelaide-born medico
of World War I, has been elected a
Royal Academician. A son of Sir
Horace Lamb, one-time Professor of
Mathematics at Adelaide University,
Henry shipped to England, to learn his
pothooks at Manchester’s Grammar
School and his medicine at its University,
and to practise with the R.A.M.C, in
France, Macedonia and Palestine, return-
ing with M.C. In World 11, with palette
substituted for scalpel, he was an official
war artist for four years. His pictures
hang in the Imperial War Museum,
London, and half-a-dozen galleries else-
where in Britain, and one, a virile oil
named “Eleven O’-clock on Deck,” in
the National Gallery of his birthplace.
“B.McC.,” with respect:
My nominee for a mate to the hardy Bill
Gwydir (B. 22/6/’49) is Ern Blackburn, 72-
year-young farmer and sheepman of Coonabara-
bran (N.S.W.). On a 3000-acre farm Ern runs
about 2000 sheep and 40 head of cattle, and
has 130 acres under lucerne and 200 under
spuds, maize and other crops. Nothing un-
toward in that, except that the worker of all
this has been paralysed below the hips since
he was 18 months old. With his legs doubled
under him, he swings along on powerful arm
and chest muscles, in each hand a little teethed
grip which he uses like a skier his alpenstock.
Em’s grit was inherited from his father, who
arrived in Sydney in 1845 in the windjammer
Gloryanna and four years later was farming at
Beulah Creek, outside Coonabarabran, the first
in that unwilling, virgin land. Transport was
by bullock-dray to Maitland, 200 miles of
rutted roads away. When his father died, Ern
was 11, and the work of the 1100-acre farm
and upkeep of the other 10 nippers fell on him
and his brother. Era worked with the rest,
ringbarking sitting down, sucker-cutting, split-
ting posts and sinking holes. Then, in 1899,
at 21, he picked 160 acres at Coonabarabran
and started on his own, and beat fire, drought
and flood. Years later he bought the first
tractor in the district, fitted it with hand-
controls, and ploughed his way into his present
healthy holding.
Queensland’s Liberal party (ex-Q.P.P)
has a medico for its new president, Dr.
H. W. Noble. A hearty hatred of Social-
ism drew him from private practice to
contest the South Brisbane seat -at the
last State elections. Though he lost, he
lowered Deputy Premier Gair’s majority
from over 1300 to just over 700. Elected
vice-president of the Q.P.P. in 1947,
shortly after joining it, he has thus lost
little time getting to the top ; possibly
because, to the geniality usually worn
with his well-covered framework, he adds
a fluent and forceful delivery.
The considerable assets of farmer Don
Shand, contesting the New England
(N.S.W.) Federal seat for the Country
party, include a large and urgent figure,
an infectious grin and an abiding faith
in the future of his country. Unofficial
ambassadpr of the soybean, he proved
at a dinner to interested delegates from
three States that from its atoms can be
produced anything from flour and salad-
oil to ice-cream and soup. He had been
farming out of Armidale for about 20
years when he heard of the bean’s
wonders. Impressed, he passed on his
views of it to Canberra, to such effect
that the Government, in 1945, sent him
to the U.S., where he probed the bean’s
secrets, gathered facts, figures and a reel
or two of technicolor film, and flew home
to produce about 80 varieties suitable to
Australian conditions. He grew as well,
during the war, 80 acres of opium, to be
turned into morphine for the Services.
Off the farm he is president of Armidale
Aero Club, chairman of directors of
East-West Air Lines, and an energetic
mover in the scheme to have farmers
lay down landing-strips on their proper-
ties for emergency landings. He put the
first strip down on his own land.
In the middle of Sydney’s heaviest June
rainfall for 63 years John Hogan, the
State’s head weatherman, floated in on
a waterlogged isobar and registered on
Prior’s damp notebook. Perhaps the
most important gauging in Hogan’s 30
years in the game was the weather over
Guadalcanal for two months before the
Allied assault hit the beachtes. Mac-
Arthur requested this information, and
Hogan, then squadron-leadering with the
R.A.A.F., supplied him in addition with
weather data covering all the big land-
ings through to the Philippines, and even
that liable to be found over several
beaches in Japan. The Admiralty, too,
was concerned with weather on the Aus-
JOHN HOGAN, under his headaches.
tralian Naval Station, and Hogan helped
them out with a handbook which is to
be found in all seagoing ships of the
R.A.N. Willis Island, off the Reef, is
now a well-established observation
station; Hogan was with the first team
of met. experts to land there, and stayed
for two cyclone seasons. Now in
charge of N.S.W.’s meteorological
office, his greatest longing is to hear an
original weather joke.
Making through the warren of alley-
ways and corridors leading to the Mel-
bourne High Court, Mcßeath took his
seat in the Press-box and asked which
was Reginald Sholl among the notables
assembled. Directed to a lone figure
heading towards the witness-box he
asked: “Are you Mr. Sholl?” “No,” re-
plied the one addressed ; “I’m Mr. Sharp-
ley.” Readjusting his line of sight, the
artist found the ex-Rhodes Scholar who
REGINALD SHOLL, at the Communist
inquiry.
is conducting the case for the Crown and
who seems to be enjoying the proceedings,
although to the average observer the raft
of book-exhibits bearing the hammer-
and-sickle insignia would be dubious en-
tertainment. The atmosphere of the
court seemed friendly enough, and Mcß.
wouldn’t have been surprised if after-
noon-tea had been served, with vodka.
Shell, K.C., a sporting as well as a legal
light, got his Melbourne Varsity football
blue and toured the U.S. with the Cam-
bridge-Oxford lacrosse team in 1926. A
journalist as well, after admittance .to the
Victorian Bar in 1928 he was ably fitted
to lecture in Melbourne for the next 10
years on the law affecting journalism;
in that period he was admitted also to the
N.S.W. and Tasmanian Bars. He served
with the A.I.F. in World War 11, and was
appointed K.C. two years after it ended.
Taking now to retirement, Frank
Strahan has been secretary to the Prime
Minister’s Department for 14 years, and
the close confidant of seven P.Ms.
Born 63 years ago at Fryerstown (Vic.),
he left Melbourne University with B.A.
and LL.B. and began his secretaryship
by holding down that kind of post with
the British, Australian and Enzed An-
tarctic Research Expedition. In 1934 he
was secretary for the Australian tour of
the Duke of Gloucester. By then he’d
been in the P.M.’s Department 13 years,
and the next year became its secretary.
Allan Brown, 38-year-old barrister and
recently Director of Post-War Recon-
struction, relieves him.
G. J. Carroll, who resigned last week
as Queensland’s Police Commissioner,
was born in a police-station and his
father was a policeman, but he himself
started off drumming the three Rs into
outback nippers. After 11 years of it
he exchanged cane for the more lethal
weapon issued by the old Ninth Battalion,
went with it overseas, and gained his
captaincy, two wounds and M.G. One
of his subordinates then was Queens-
land’s present Premier, who was later to
appoint him Commissioner. Invalided
home, Carroll joined the Income Tax
Department, and as inspector, rising to
chief-inspector, pursued the wily taxpayer
for eight years. When, in 1934, the
commissionership fell vacant, the Gov-
ernment looked for a man to reorganise
the Force. Carroll got the job (he had
shortly before cleared up a royal com-
mission inquiry into the dairying industry)
and quickly salved criticism in the
Force at his outside appointment by the
energetic measures he took to vindicate
his selection. He initiated qualifying pro-
motion exams, elevated promising young
men, with pars and motor-cycles gave
the Force a very effective mobility, and
encouraged specialisation in modern de-
tection methods.,. When he left it, through
ill-health, the Force he’d built up had
little to learn from anywhere.
Maorilander Captain J. W. Burgess,
who flew in the Victorian Centennial
London-Melbourne race, has been ap-
pointed chief pilot of Stratocruiser air-
craft built by the Boeing Co. of Seattle
for British Airways, He will have charge
of their flight from America to London.
Burgess, who pioneered the London-
Auckland-Sydney air-service in 1937 with
the Centaurus, has 10,000-odd hours and
a million-and-a-half flying miles to bis
credit. Lately he’s been in charge of the
Boeing flying-boats hopping between
America and Bermuda, with headquarters
in Baltimore.
“C. 8.”: Norman Carlyon, first
casualty of a minor war engaging Mel-
bourne, has put a finish to his 15 years’
membership of the U.L.V.A. council; he
is out of step with it on the burning sub-
ject of banning pub counter-lunches. In
his stand Norman has the gratitude of
most Melbourne drinkers, who feel that
the solid adjunct to Hebe’s dispensa-
tions is the last remnant of the old order
of gracious hostelries. The underdogs’
champion takes his stand with authority
—he owns some large hotels himself. He
was A.D.C. to General Blarney in the
other scrap.
Passed on in Honolulu, Fritz Bennicke
Hart, Australian composer, conductor
and author. Hart had such vast energy
stored in his small frame that at one time
he was conductor of both the Honolulu
and the Melbourne Symphony Orchestras,
and that was between 1931 and 1936, be-
fore the aeroplane allowed virtuosi to
flit from country to country in a few
hours. In 1937, however, he plumped for
Honolulu, and became that city’s first
occupant of its Chair of Music. Before
then he had made great contributions to
Melbourne music. He directed the Melba
Conservatorium (he was a close friend of
the diva), produced a string of Mozart
operas, and was responsible for the
Centenary production of Beethoven’s
“Fideiio” at the Playhouse, and for the
first and only production of Dunhill’s
light 'opera “Tantivy Towers,” A pro-
lific composer as well, he was author of
18 operas, two of which, “Deirdre in
Exile” and “Pierette,” were introduced
into J.C.W. opera seasons at His
Majesty’s, Melbourne. His “Bush Sym-
phonic Suite” won an A.B.C. prize, and
Henri Verbrugghen conducted his “Blue
Bird.” Hart loved Celtic folklore; his
music has a certain eerie quality which
found its best expression in his opera
“The Woman Who Laughed At Faerie.”
A concert entirely devoted to his com-
positions was given in London. Born in
Kent in 1874, Hart came to Australia in
1912.
Into the Silence:
At Newpark Moville, County Donegal, Lady
Maud Montgomery, widow of the Right Rev.
Henry Montgomery, one-time Bishop of Tas-
mania. She died at the place where, on
November 17, 1887, she became the mother
of a son destined to be the commander of
the legendary Eighth Army, the victor of
Alamein and the Rhine, Field-Marshal Bernard
Montgomery.
In Melbourne, architect Horace Mackennal,
son of J. S. Mackennal, artist and sculptor,
and brother of sculptor Bertram. He was Com-
monwealth Works Director from 1912 to 1939
in Victoria, designed many of the State’s big
architectural projects, and represented the Com-
monwealth on several National Memorial com-
mittees. He was for 35 years a member of the
Amateur Sports Club.
At Gisborne (M.L.), Mrs. Eliza Heeney,
mother of Tom (Gene Tunney defeated him
for the world heavyweight championship), and
of Jack, who was M.L.’s middleweight champion.
In Adelaide, at 87, Walter Giffen, last of the
1893 Australian Test cricketers. He played in
three Tests against England.
In Wellington (M.L.), at 63, Frederick Evans,
manager of Reuters Economic Services and an
enthusiastic. Rotarian. Joining the firm nearly
50 years ago, in Melbourne, he later managed
it for some years in Brisbane. A son,
Lieutenant-Colonel F. R. Evans, belongs to the
Australian Army staff in England.
In Sydney, at 76, George Nettleship, who,
born in Stockton-on-Tees (Eng.), joined there
as a boy the marine-engineering firm of John
Blair and retired in 1922 as its managing-
director. He travelled widely through Europe,
America and Canada, and settled in Sydney in
1939.
At Caulfield (Vic.) Repat. Hospital, at 68,
Colonel A. T. MacArthur, formerly commander
of the 2nd Medium Artillery Brigade. Com-
missioned in the field in France in World War I,
he was until recently assistant-controller of
manpower in Victoria.


Society
and IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
“Mac Hoots”: If the coal strike lasts
much longer French’s Forest, a favorite
haunt of Sunday motorists, is likely to
be transported bodily to Sydney. All
day long, as I picnicked on the road
down to Narrabeen Lake, there was the
sound of saws and axes; and driving
”You see, Ethel, even those ancients had to have their
emergency lighting!”
home I saw hundreds, maybe thousands,
of cars being loaded with firewood, green
timber as well as dry. There was a plea-
sant atmosphere of carnival about this,
reminiscent of the annual mushroom
festival when Sydney motorists descend
like locusts on the paddocks of Camden ;
and reminding me, too, of an occasion
when snow fell at Katoomba and by
mid-afternoon was no longer to be
seen, Tor all the motorists had piled it
on their running-boards and were cart-
ing it off to Sydney. But, pleasant
though it is to see the forest moving
away leaf by leaf and stick by stick, I
trust that no one has prophesied such
a doom for Sydney as the witches
promised Macbeth when “Birnam wood
shall come to Dunsinane.”
* * * *
“Uco”; I still regard the telephone as
the most insistent tyrant of modern
society; a businessman who thinks
nothing of letting callers cool their heels
outside his door for half an hour drops
everything and springs for the phone at
its first imperative ring. But there is a
strong contender for the title in the
whistling-kettle. In the household where
the silent variety is still in use the house-
wife puts the kettle on the stove and goes
about her chores. Ten minutes later she
knows the kettle is almost certainly boil-
ing, but the knowledge doesn’t worry her
much. She finishes the job in hand and
then walks unhurriedly to the kitchen to
turn off the gas. But once she introduces
the shrieking menace to her kitchen there
is an end to all quietude and peace of
mind. At the first piercing note not only
she but everyone else within earshot
rushes wildly to the kitchen as though
life itself depended on the gas being
turned off before another mblecule of
steam escapes. And it is only after the
gas is turned off and the banshee wail
has subsided that someone remembers.,
that tea must be made with water actu-
ally at the boil, so the gas must be lit
again. I don’t know who invented the
thing, but a fitting punishment would be
to lock him in a kitchen with a dozen of
’em in full cry and with his hands tied
behind his back.
* * * *
“Castlereagh”: Salvador de Madariaga
may, well be right in believing that
Columbus was of Spanish-Jewish stock
that had settled in Genoa and had
accepted Catholicism (B. 25/6/’49).
There is probably more Jewish blood in
Spain than in any other European
country. Walsh, in his fife of Queen
Isabella, states that she reigned over a
population about a quarter of whom were
of Jewish descent. The proportion in her
husband Ferdinand’s kingdom of Aragon
was greater than in Castile. Most
Spanish Jews were “ converses ” and were
not affected by the expulsion of Jews from
Spain, only practising Jews being in-
volved. After their expulsion many of
the race went to Italy, among them the
ancestors of Benjamin Disraeli. Many
prominent Spaniards have been of
converse extraction. According to Lord
Tempiewood, who was British Ambas-
sador at Madrid during most of World
War 11, Franco is numbered among them.
“Simon Scrawler”: “Ray Whiting” (B.
6/7/’49) yearns for his Syrian laundress,
Sparrowforce men look back to their
little Timorese washerwomen, who always
returned the laundry on time, washed,
pressed and, if necessary, mended. For
weeks after the Nips caged the Sparrows,
anxious washerwomen scanned the work-
ing parties in Koepang trying to find their
former customers. Nearly every prisoner
had his laundry returned, and the lasses
wouldn’t take any payment.
* * * *
“Plop”: Admitting that modem pro-
fessional wrestling-matches have come
out of the category of contests and into
one of entertainment, one must still
puzzle over a photo of two mat-men that
appeared in a recent “Sydney Morning
Herald.” With happy snarl. Chief Little
Wolf was shown holding the top rope,
“Superstitious about three of a light, sister?”
standing with one heel applied to the
Adam’s-apple of his opponent, who was
lying with his head beneath the bottom
rope. Nothing abnormal about this;
but, then, the photo’s caption wound up
with “Both were disqualified in the fifth
round for fighting.”
* * * *
“Zake”: Time was when it was a
common thing to see that large team of
hack politicians to whom “Labor” pins
its faith to “fix” our constantly-recurring
industrial crises with a faraway look in
their eyes as they wandered hither and
yon trying to appear intelligent. The
public naturally assumed that they were
in their usual dream-state. This was un-
just—it was the correct political way of
“exploring all avenues,” the ability to
do which being a qualification in a
“Labor” politician second only to the
ability to appear to sympathise with
Commo strikers while agreeing (in prin-
ciple) with a Caucus condemnation of
them. Recently, however, I have seen
several of these worthy fellows rushing
around in circles in Sydney, and I was
puzzled by their invariable habit of look-
ing closely at the ground as they moved.
Obviously they couldn’t be exploring
avenues. Then I tumbled. Obviously
they were “searching for a f basis for a
formula,” that example of the tortuous
terminology of Socialism-Communism
representing the very latest in political
sports.
* * * *
“Spike”: During the war it was
claimed by some that Britain’s blackouts
were really an aid to the enemy, throw-
ing the countryside into a relief that
made it easy for night-bombers to find
landmarks. This school of thought ad-
vocated fighting up the land in a “glare-
out.” There must have been something
in the idea, because the British Gov-
ernment toyed with a scheme for pro-
ducing an artificial aurora of light. Now
at Armidale (N.S.W.), Professor Bailey,
of Sydney University, is continuing ex-
periments with “artificial moonlight.”
By shooting radio-waves into the iono-
sphere he hopes to produce a glow above
that city. Such glows come high in price
-—a faint one for £50,000, a “fairly
strong” one for £250,000. One sufficient
to light 5000 square miles of countryside
“as clearly as at full moonlight” would
necessitate the professor’s getting his
hands on sufficient dough to harness
1,000,000 kilowatts.
* * * *
“Bo”; One of the first of the “trades-
men” to start to do a perish from the
Commo-worked economic blast now en-
veloping Sydney in this year of Ben’s
Golden Age has been that new aristocracy
comprising the fellows who with lordly
condescension agreed to motor-mow your
lawn —on their own rigid conditions, of
course. If the sward was bumpy, if the
grass was of the type they didn’t like, or
had too much nap on it, or if too many
flower-beds militated against their being
given a straight go at it they bluntly
declined the job. Mostly they charged
7s. 6d. for less than an hour’s “work.”
A very easily-earned £l5 a week mini-
mum, with capital outlay back in five
or six weeks, excluding the utility or bike
and sidecar used to transport the mower.
But the picking and choosing is rapidly
going, if not gone. In the present de-
pression—no, no, recession ! —they are
finding out the hard way that the first
things to go overboard are luxuries, and
that the harassed housewife grimly sees
to it that laziness is the very first of the
luxuries to be tossed over, The moans
of the once-arrogant profiteers of the
propelled blades are now being drowned
by the protesting shrieks of the long-
disused hand-pushed mowers and their
pushers.
* * * *
“Hamer”: In the days when pubs really
were pubs and Bungs were glad to carry
out those services to the public the
modern hotelkeeper has feloniously re-
pudiated, for a profit the latter would
regard as chicken-feed, there was usually
in winter a good fire in a parlor handy
to the bars where a wet or frozen citizen
could dry off and warm up. On Sunday
it was better still. Boarders were per-
mitted to entertain their visitors in their
rooms or in the comfortable “house”
sitting-room, where a warm fire roared
if the weather was cold. Bung, mindful
of the small profits his successor would
despise, saw to it that his best customers
were introduced to his boarders. Passing
through a dead city on Sunday and noting
the hundreds of people who miserably
mooch around in the pale surtshine as
something at least a little better than the
bleakness of their residential quarters, my
mind flashed back to many cosy winter
days and nights spent in pub sitting-
rooms with cards or conversation and the
drinks that oil the machinery of social
intercourse. Certainly life has lost many
of its old amenities. The pub as the
popular clubhouse has long ceased to
exist. It’s high time the pub, now only
a goldmine to the publican, was wiped
out and the community clubhouse sub-
stituted.
* * * *'
“Boro-Belle”: Money in wrecks!
When the Japs abandoned the Maheno,
which went ashore on Fraser Island (Q.)
while being towed to Japan, the sun had
scarcely risen next day before an enter-
prising bloke with an armful of hack-
saws got to work on the phosphor-bronze
propeller. Another methodical one
gathered the ship’s cutlery and sold the
lot for £95. Some Hervey Bay homes
and a few in Maryborough have mementos
of the old liner in the shape of bedroom
toilet-tables with wash-basin and mirror
complete, and the multicolored glass
chandelier which adorned the saloon-
lounge today decorates a picture-show
kiosk where the fans line up to buy their
tickets.
* * * *
“South Coast”: Wedding toasts (B.
6/7/’49)? I recall a country-town wed-
ding, at which the bridegroom rose to
respond. After managing “Ladies and
gentlemen,’’ he was apparently stricken
dumb. As he sat down the best man
popped up and commenced brightly
“Well, ladies and gentlemen, I hope I’ll
do better than my brother. . . ” Then he,
too, got stage-fright; his mouth stayed
open, but no more words wbuld come,
so down he sat.
* * * *
“Bullwhanger”: A Sydney daily pub-
lished a photograph of habitues of a
nightclub backing their fancies in a snail-
race. There was nothing new in the idea.
Three shipmates and I beat them to it a
quarter of a century ago. Cast away on
a Pacific island when our schooner met
a reef one dark night, we spent six weeks
in maddening idleness until we discovered
the thrills of hermit-crab racing. Our
course was the top of the mess-room
table and the field raced in lanes laid out
by tacking strips of tape in parallel lines.
When this palled we had tug-o’-wars. A
hermit-crab was tied at each end of a
length of marlin, a knot in the centre of
the marlin being placed midway .between
two pencil-lines on the table. It’s amaz-
ing how those crabs could pull, and we
backed them enthusiastically, tobacco
being the stakes. There was one
champion who inhabited an old trochus-
shell who pulled all challengers all over
the field, and could take on two at a
time. His stable was a petrol-tin half-full
of wet sand, but after a while he fretted
for the open ocean and went so off form
that a lively newcomer easily dragged
him off his feet.
A GLOOMY TALE.
The P.M. and the Senator were walking hand-
in-hand,
“There’s one thing,’’ said the Senator, “I can’t
quite understand—
It’s why the blokes we’ve fed so well should
bite our trusting hand.”
“To give them ev’rything they’ve asked we’ve
tried for many a year,
Yet when’ we ask for something back they just
don’t seem to hear.”
“You’ve said it,” moaned the glum P.M., and
shed a bitter tear.
•
“Those ads. of ours,” the P.M. said, “that
looked so neat and fine —
I would have thought were just the thing to
bring ’em into line,
Yet though they must have read the lot, they
won’t go down the mine.”
“The time has come,” the P.M. said, “to shift
the coal at grass.”
A shudder shook the Senator, and murmured
he, “Alas,
To come at that would stab the backs of all
the working class.”
“If seven men with seven picks should work
for half a day.
Do you believe,” the P.M. said, “they’d get it
all away?”
“I doubt it,” said the Senator. “They’d strike
for double pay.”
The P.M. and the Senator conferred for days
and days.
At times they talked of ways and means, at
times of means and ways,
At last they saw a gleam of hope shine faintly
through the haze.
“I’ve got it, Bill,” the P.M. said, in homely
Bathurst burr,
“We’ll pass the buck, or toss the kip—which-
ever you prefer—
And leave this most distasteful job to good
old Jim McGirr.”
“That’s fixed, then,” said the Senator. “We’ll
gp on sitting tight.
No heavy weight upon our souls to plague our
dreams at night.
For though the coal be black as hell, our hands
will still be white.”
The P.M. and the Senator sat pensive for a
space,
And then a worried look came o’er the P.M.’s
rugged face.
“If we don’t get more coal,” he said, “we won’t
be in the race.”
“Our critics urge,” the P.M. said, “we work
the opencuts.
The gear is there, the tools are there and all
that opes and shuts.”
“That’s true,” replied the Senator. “But have
we got the guts ?”
N.S.W.
JASBY.


Cfikws
BETWEEN
YOU AND
THE 'FLU...
Thousands of people, who go through every winter free from
colds and ’flu, can testify to the remarkable remedial proper-
ties of Wolfe’s Schnapps. For Wolfe’s Schnapps has been
known throughout the world for generations ... as a pure
spirit, a safe stimulant and diuretic, and a beverage with
medicinal qualities found in no other spirit.
It’s the pleasant way to avoid winter ills. Many prefer
Wolfe’s Schnapps with ice-cold water, others enjoy it with
soft drinks or cordials. But, in winter time, for colds and
’flu, try it in a hot lemon drink at bedtime. Wolfe’s Schnapps
is available in large, half and quarter size bottles. Start the
“small bottle test” . . . to-day 1
WOLFE’S SmA SCHNAPPS
FOR YOUR HEALTH’S SAKE-
———— . ws.aof.it
mm SHAVERS
SHAVE
■for
SECURITY/ ' c
Put a stop to whisker Inflation. Use
just a spot .of Ingram's cool shaving
cream, and your shaving troubles dis-
appear .in the soothing froth and
bubble. -Be shaving security conscious
and shave for the security of your only
fpce, with Ingram's. Ingram's soothes
as it smooths as it softens, and makes
shaving a carefree few moments. Send
the coupon below for 7 FREE shaves
on Ingram's. Don't delay, send today.
M.I
a
\ 'r
7
r:
TV/
SUAVIN6 CfctAM
Js/y/fi/Es
Bristol Myers Co. Pty. Ltd.,
223 Pacific Highway, North Sydney, N.S.W.
NAME
ADDRESS..
FROM
CHEMISTS
EVERYWHERE
m w i
“Clooter”; I was doing all right with
one of those works on economics which
keep coming off the presses until I ran
into this:
The standard of value ought normally to
possess high stability of price in order to
function as a store of value which is of
the utmost importance in maintaining the
value of money at a reasonably constant
level in time because the principal function
of money is to act as a store of value in
time.
The author is the product of sundry
British and European universities, so it
must mean something. I’ve tried it upside-
down and' sideways, had it translated
into French, lent it to a Communist ac-
quaintance, and, somewhat desperately,
put it to the bloke who repaired my
lawnmower. It didn’t baffle him, “What
it means,” he said, “is that gettin’ into
time-payment is all right if y’ve got 'a
constant job, but it’s no good if y’re one
o’ these blokes who goes round snatchin’
his time just because it narks the missus.”
It’s a§ good an explanation as I want.
* * * *
“F.S.”: An unusual set of conditions
has prevented the trustees of the Victorian
National Gallery from accepting the gift
of Streeton’s “Land of the Golden
Fleece” and an English oil-painting by
James Stark. The donor, W. C. C. Cain,
a Melbourne art collector, stipulated that
the pictures be hung continuously for 50
years, and be subject to inspection twice
a year at irregular intervals to see that the
conditions were being observed; after
that the trustees would own the pictures.
The trustees could hardly agree to such,
conditions, so the gallery loses a
Streeton and possibly a good Stark.
Stark was a member of the famous Nor-
wich school founded by John Crome,
called “Old Crome,” who first workea
as a coach-painter and then educated him-
self in art by studying nature and master-
pieces of the Dutch school. Burney and
John Sell Cotman were among his col-
leagues. One of Stark’s pupils was his
nephew, J. M. Skipper, who subsequently
migrated in South Australia’s First Fleet,
married a daughter of Robert Thomas,
founder of the Adelaide “Register,” and
was the State’s first artist.
* * *
“Pitt St.”: Pardon me for this —I can’t
resist it. Are Messrs. Williams, Mc-
Phillips, King and Grant incarcerated in
Communist cells?
* * * *
“Nakh”: R. P. M. Pescott, of the Mel-
bourne Museum, will shortly use modern
science in an attempt to solve a mystery
that has intrigued all his predecessors
when he brings the X-ray to bear on an
egg of the Aipyornis. The bird which laid
the egg has been extinct for 200 years,
but early voyagers to Madagascar may
“ You'll find the Water will run away now. Miss."
have seen it. At any rate they brought
back to Europe stories of a gigantic
flightless bird 12ft. high. Colloquially
known as the roc, it has no connection
with the bird which carried off Sind bad.
As the egg is over a foot long, with a
girth of nearly 3ft. and a yolk-capacity
of 148 hens’ eggs, there is some evidence
for believing the ancient travellers’ stories.
The Melbourne egg is valued at £3OO
and is world-famous, and the present in-
terest in it is a result of an inquiry from
a Belgian scientist who is writing a
treatise on the species. Records show
that it was bought from a M. Laffargue
in 1862.
* * * *
“5 G.R.”: Relentless in its fury, the sea
is capricious on occasions. This story
comes from an oversea liner. A woman
had been below, changing her baby’s
underthings, and as she reached the deck
she was nung against the rail, and her
baby catapulted into the sea. By a com-
mendable signal arrangement between
deck and bridge, the ship immediately
swung, a boat was lowered and hurried
towards the still-floating baby. Presently
the kiddie began to sink, and was 6ft,
underwater when the quartermaster dived,
cap, boots and all. Artificial resuscita-
tion restored the little girl. She
owes her life to that odd chance that her
mother had just changed her soggy
clothes for fresh ones, full of air, to a
non-breaking sea, and to a quarter-
master’s courage. <
* * * *
“Cauboy”: The first visit of the Strat-
ford Shakspeare Memorial Theatre Com-
pany to Australia will be made in
October. It will open in Melbourne on
October 17 and will play John Quayle’s
production of “Macbeth,” John Giel-
gud’s production of “Much Ado About
Nothing” and Tyrone Guthrie’s produc-
tion of “Henry the Eighth.” Principal
actors will be Anthony Quayle, director
of the Memorial Theatre, Diana Wyn-
yard, Harry Andrews, Clement Mc-
Callin, Laurence Payne, Cecil Winter
and Rosalind Atkinson. The aeroplane
makes it possible for the co, to leave
Stratford immediately the present sea-
son closes, give a 14 weeks’ season in
Australia and N.Z. and be home by
February for rehearsals for the next
Stratford season.
* * * *
“Hamfat”: So Geelong still has no
theatre where flesh-and-blood shows can
be given (B. 6/7/’49). The fire that
wiped out the town’s historic show-
house was a double tragedy; it destroyed
also the properties of the Allan Wilkie
Shakspearian Company and brought its
struggling tours to an end. Geelong
once prided itself on its critical taste in
the drama; if a show passed muster in
that town, theatrical managers agreed,
it was good enough for Melbourne; but
that pride has long been forgotten. Time
was when even the smallest towns of
Australasia had their halls equipped
with stages, drop-scenes and utility
scenery for the use of touring theatrical
companies. Tent theatres carried by
modern shows helped to make the up-
keep of such halls profitless ; and as fire
or the white-ant worked destruction the
country-town show-house went. Now
the tent theatre, once merely a prefer-
ence, is a necessity for the show that
goes on tour.
* * * *
“Sixenate”; A Sydney court sat up
and took notice' when it was asked to
issue an injunction restraining an elderly
lady from discharging “rockets and other
fireworks” into the air and scaring
thereby her neighbor’s pigeons. The
lady stated her case plaintively. She
suffered from nerves, and when the
pigeons flapped overhead —255 of them
according to her count —in the first light
of day it scared the daylights out of her.
The fireworks were not merely reprisals:
they were intended to frighten the birds
into taking a flight-course that was not
over her house. She agreed to explode
no more hungers if her pigeon-fancier
neighbor kept the birds from their train-
ing flights until the day was more ad-
vanced. The injunction was issued in
accordance with those terms,
* ♦ ♦ *
“Flathead”: We humans could prob-
ably get along quite .well without our
subconscious minds. I have been prid-
ing myself for years on being able to
turn a deaf ear to radio commercials, to
look at the big advertising billboards
and care not what they say, and now I
find that my subconscious has been
quietly tucking away their slogans all
the time. Because of the coal strike my
wife recently had to accept from the
grocer a self-raising flour that was not
the brand she liked, and as if to prove
her point the cake that she made from
it was very undeveloped. Now, I have
no recollection of it, but she tells me
that at about 2 a.m. the next morning I
thumped her in the ribs and said “That
cake —you know why it didn’t turn out
all right? No airyfloss in the flour.”
She tells me that airyfloss, or some simi-
lar-sounding product, is frequently ad-
vertised on the wave-lengths.
* * * *
“Percy Pawnticket”: The films are
poison to others besides the kids they
are supposed to influence adversely. A
woman in divorce traced her matri-
monial unhappiness back to the night
when she and her spouse attended a pic-
ture in which the dashing hero upended
the spoilt beauty and applied a strap to
the part of her anatomy where it is sup-
posed to do most good. The picture
ended in wedding-bells ; and the husband
may have been encouraged by his wife’s
laughter over the slapping episode to
imagine that that was the right medicine
for her. He tried it out directly they
arrived home, but the treatment didn’t
work out.
BALLADE DEMANDING MONEY.
“Union leaders failing to restore frozen union funds
have been jailed; but Commonwealth authorities were
last week still searching without success for the
money.”
While workless citizens fret and fume
And factory managers pray for coal
It’s like our Treasurer to resume
The march towards his eventual goal:
Like tax-commissioners taking toll.
Or payday housewives dripping honey,
He croons his usual rigmarole;
“What have you done with all that money?”
The Judge has spoken the wgrds of doom
According you absolute State-control,
O prisoners stalking in silent gloom!
Barristers bluster and courts cajole,
Commonwealth coppers seek your roll,
Guarded in steel or sacked in gunny.
And what says the laborer on the dole?
“What have you done with all that money?”
Tell us, where is its hidden tomb:
Deep in a subterranean hole?
Or, possibly, up in Annie’s room?
Or down the hatch? Or up the pole?
Or sewn in somebody’s evening stole
Or Raggetty Anne, or baby’s bunny?
We promise we’ll never tell a soul!
What have you done with all that money?
L’Envoi.
Comrades! (From us this may seem droll,
But most of your friends are rather funny]
Whisper an answer to our scroll —•
What have you done with all that money?
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


ABORIGNALITIES
THE STATION HACK.
Not his the thrill of racing hooves and silken
colors,
He never heard the saddling-paddock bell,
Nor loud from crowded stand and rippling
terrace
The rising tide of acclamation swell.
Long days are his, the heat, and steady plodding,
The dusty tracks behind the crawling sheep;
He hears the barking dogs,, his master’s whistle,
The lonely winds that from the desert sweep.
On bitter nights of early winter lambing
When stormy midnight greys to sullen morn
He breasts the swollen streams, and on his
saddle
The weakling Iamb is safely homeward borne.
And yet the hills are his, the wide blue spaces
That only winding bridle-pathways span;
His are the clear sweet springs and homestead
pastures,
He is not servant, but the friend, of man.
n.z. Joyce West.
• * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”; Can’t regard £70 as
an exorbitant price for a good sheepdog
(B, 22/6/’49) —I’ve seen them fetch £50
in the days when a quid had some value.
But “Horseless Horseman” is right. Dogs
aren’t trained now like they used to be.
But then the bush-worker doesn’t prac-
tise any of the arts he used to. Do you
see men carving emu-eggs now? That
was an art, and many a carved shell raised
the thought of what fame the artist might
have known had he been trained. Next
time you see a carved shell examine it
closely. The shadings are obtained by
using the different shades of the layers in
the shell —an operation which, like train-
ing dogs, takes time. And that’s one
thing the bushmen have little of these
days. Years back a station-hand worked
his 80-odd hours a week and had the
rest of the time to himself. Now he
works a bit —with modern equipment he
probably does as well as his father did —
but his spare-time isn’t his. In between
travelling miles to “darnces” and football
matches he’s kept fully occupied re-
assembling his motor-bike or stunting
with the boss’s aeroplane. And the
boundary-rider, sitting by his lonely
campfire, dreaming of home —he’s gone,
too. His counterpart is equipped with a
battery-set, and art can’t flourish in an
atmosphere of jive.
* * * *
“Young Slim”: The old man and I
were humping it over the Darling Ranges,
looking for work further east, when we
came across a little, poor-looking farm
tucked away in a rock-strewn valley. An
old-timer supported one end of a rickety
fence, “How far is it to the Narrogin
turn-off?” asked the old man. The
ancient’s lips moved, but that’s all. “Hey,
mate —I asked how far it is to the
Narrogin turn-off?” repeated my aggres-
sive parent, moving closer. This time a
faint whisper rewarded his efforts.
Father’s ears went red —a bad sign—and
he roared: “Can’t you talk?” “’Course
I can talk,” came a husky reply, “but this
bit of land’s so blasted poor I can’t even
raise me voice!”
* * * *
“Lower Tops’l”: Wooden ships of the
sort they built last century never seem to
“ Footfault !”
wear out. The latest addition to the Vic-
torian fishing fleet is the former Army
steamer Mars, a familiar sight for 60
years about Port Phillip Heads as a
smart, white-hulled, yellow-funnelled little
steamer sparkling with brasswork and
weighting soldiers across The Rip be-
tween the Nepean and Queenscliff forts.
Built at Footscray (Vic.) in 1888, on the
same stocks as the former well-known
lighthouse steamer Lady Loch, the 65-foot
Mars is now owned by Stan Wilson and
his son at Portland, and is used for shark-
fishing off storm-lashed Cape Northum-
berland. But in her new do-up she is
hardly recognisable. She’s black-hulled,
mastless, with a huge wheelhouse aft, and
driven by a 100-horse diesel.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: The oldest
vessel afloat in Australian waters is soon
to have her hundredth birthday. She is
the Tassie trading ketch Huon Chief,
which is still freighting timber into the
Derwent, the job she was built for. The
33-ton, green-hulled hooker was con-
structed of Tasmanian bluegum through-
out, and first took the water on the Huon
River in September, 1849. She’s had an
adventurous career. In 1867, when loaded
with timber and potatoes, she foundered
in six fathoms in the D’Entrecasteaux
Channel, and was sold for £25. She was
refloated, later capsizing in Blackman’s
Bay. Refitted, she went around the wild
west coast on salvage jobs. Towards the
close of the century the old vessel was
extensively damaged by fire, and would
have been doomed but for Wilson’s ship-
yard at Port Cygnet, where she was recon-
ditioned and lengthened by three feet.
For the past 45 years the ketch has been
owned and skippered by “Watty”
Richardson. Last year she won the race
for trading-vessels at the Hobart regatta.
This year she came third, appropriately
carrying the sail-number “100.”
■* * * *
“Berilbill”: There never seemed a place
better suited for lyrebirds than the fern
gullies and wooded hills of Lome, Vic-
toria, yet, search and listen as I may,
never once was I rewarded with a musical
programme-. This ideal spot, just south
of the Otway Range, seems also without
the native bear, and only once did I
come across a ringtailed possum. By
the still, deep pools of the George River
I waited in vain for a platypus, and was
told later by Fred Marsh, a constant
camp-dweller on Sheoake River, that the
’pus was unknown in the district. Acting
as a barrier, Otway Range v/as also
blamed for the absence of the koala. On
the other hand, the barrier keeps in other
fauna which I found scarce elsewhere in
Victoria. Gang-gang cockatoos were
there in large numbers, as was the plain
brown honeyeater, easily the best song-
ster of the tribe. The superb warbler, a
member of the wren family, and one I
have never seen south of Albury, was
busy nest-building. In the rivers I caught
plenty of tupong and native trout, but
never the common freshwater blackfish,
always found plentifully in outside
rivers.
* * * *
“Telarb”: Kubin village on Moa
Island is preparing for a revival shortly
of the old ceremonial dancing of Torres
St. at a big church affair to be held
there. Amongst others, the t Mabuiag
Crocodile Dance (to propitiate the old
god) will be seen publicly for the first
time in many years. Behind a large mat
hung between two palms the dancer hides
—this represents the croc, in the water —
and as the drums roll he appears dressed
in a fearsome alligator mask. Suiting
his dance to the tempo of the drum, he
starts slowly, gradually reaching a fren-
zied leaping, after which the tempo is
tapered off to a quiet ending, disappear-
ing behind the screen with a leap at the
last drum-beat, this simulating the croc.’s
disappearance into the sea. At a try-out
a short, time ago the Kubin piccaninnies
went bush with fright. Most of the
peripatetic Government servants —the
only Europeans to get about the various
island villages—are trying to find sound
excuses for being there on the big day.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: The Merran Yarran and
its creeks were running bankers and
water was all out through the lignum
flats, so we climbed on our nags and went
forth to muster the stock. It was a fine
day, but what with splashing through
“I'll buy them, Chanda, if you can get them to do the Highland Fling.”
swamps, plunging into gilgais and crossing
creeks, we were wet to the waist within
an hour. The midday rendezvous was a
island in the heart of the damp
wilderness, and when we got there—with
520 sheep and 78 cattle —the boss had a
roaring fire going and ordered us to strip
and dry our togs. As was natural without
the restraint of clothes, we romped around
like boys for a while. When it came time
to remount to push the stock the remain-
ing six miles to the higher homestead
country the boss got an idea. “Why
wet our togs again?” he said. “Tie ’em
on the saddles, just wear our boots an’
hats till we get clear o’ the water.” We
thought it was a good idea. But we didn’t
know that a mixed party of visitors had
arrived at the homestead and that the
boss’s wife, after stirring them with tales
of what we were doing in the flooded
flats, had driven them to the sandhill
above the last fringe of lignum, swamp-
box and ti-tree to see the heroes emerge
with the rescued stock. Three of us were
with the cattle, ahead of the sheep, and
when the beasts broke from the scrub-
fringe at a run we broke with them, riding
frantically to head them into the open.
We heard screams on the sandhill, looked
once, screamed ourselves, and fled back
into the scrub. The visitors were still
goggle-eyed when the boss galloped
furiously into sight to see what all the
noise was about, then—but you can
imagine it better than I can write it.
* * * *
“G.W.”: I rise to defend the wedge-
tail against the old, old calumny of
lamb-taking (B. 13/7/’49). Dead lambs
in the paddocks and wool inside the shot
eagles is no evidence —foxes, crows,
town dogs, disease or poison could have
killed the lambs, and carrion-eaters like
eagles are bound to have wool inside
them in sheep country. Bring me a
sheepman prepared to swear on oath that
he has seen with his own eyes an eagle
take a living lamb and I’ll
shout. How many lamb-
bones have ever been found
among the rabbit and hare-
bones in an eagle’s nest? The
shark analogy is absurd—to
believe that because a shark
once tastes human blood it
becomes a man-hunter is to
accept two preposterous
premises: (a) that human
blood has some mysterious
quality that makes it superior
to all other blood, which, if
true, would make us all can-
nibals, and ( b ) that sharks
have enough intelligence to
distinguish a man as a man
rather than as another
creature to be attacked. I’m
afraid “H.H.” has been read-
ing too many newspapers ; he has for-
gotten to think for himself.
* * * *
“Helldud”: Some Bulletin scribe re-
cently made the claim that Californian
redwood and Scandinavian pitch-pine are
the only two timbers positively resistant
to marine borers. I have my doubts.
The claim has also been made that these
timbers are white-ant-proof. As to that,
many years ago the pitch-pine floors of
Sydney Observatory were badly infested
by termites. Frame-plates of laminated
sweeps of redwood and colonial-pine
were bolted by the Commos of the insect-
world without discrimination. We fol-
lowed them down under the 6ft.-deep
footings and eventually located the nest
in a huge stump 4ft. below ground-level
and 60ft. from the scenes of destruction.
* * * *
“Bo”: Ned and Blue had been sent in
with the utility to pick up some stores
and the new cook. They collected the
stores and then went looking for the
babbler. He wasn’t at the appointed
place, but they eventually located him
at the pub, as full as a goog and yearning
for stoush. Blue put him to sleep with a
delicate chop across the jaw-muscles, and
he and Ned bundled the obstreperous
one into the back of the utility with the
gear, put up the tail, and headed for the
station. As they pulled up at their des-
tination a groan came from the back.
Blue winked at Ned, hopped down,
went round and let the tail of the truck
down, got up, and, grabbing the head of
the iron bedstead they’d brought back,
held it in place where the tail had been.
The poisoner, still well sozzled, grasped
the upright bars and looked blearily
through. “All right, mate, your bail’s
been paid, you can go,” said Ned in a
stern voice. Blue swung the “door”
slowly open and the bab. struggled to his
feet and walked through. As he picked
himself up from his nose-dive he looked
up from where he’d come. “Blashted
coolersh,” he growled. “Sheem to be
buildin’ ’em higher theesh daysh, shome-
how! ”
* * * *
“23-4”: What sort of curs has “H.H.”
been wasting tucker on if they cringe
when they hear a fox at night (B.
13/7 / ’49)? All the dogs I ever knew got
right out after the fox —which is why
two foxes often work the well-known
ruse whereby one kicks up a row and,
when all the dogs have taken after it, the
mate sneaks into the unguarded chookery
and snaffles a meal.
* * * *
“Eureka”: The first day he arrived on
the station the new migrant was told by
Jacky how a snake had bitten him on the
big toe one morning when he put his
foot in his boot. Next day when the boss
asked him why he was cutting holes in
the toes of his boots the new hand re-
plied: “I’m taking no risks, sir, so when
it hears me putting my foot in my boot
any snake that happens to be in it can
duck out this escape-hole, see?”
♦ * * *
“Solitude”: There was a harassed look
on Seventyfiver’s dial as he mooched into
the store and hooked himself on the
counter. “Got any two-inch nails,
George?” he inquired. “No. I been
dolin’ out the few I had on the most
urgent cases f’r weeks,” came the reply.
“Well this is urgent, George; damn’
urgent.” “Sorry. No more left,” in-
formed the storekeeper. “Any three-inch,
then?” “No.” “Well, any inch-’n’-a-half,
or inch? Anythin’. Even roof-nails’d be
better’n nothin’. Gripes, it’s tough when
a man can’t buy a flamin’ nail t’ . . . ”
“Sorry,” reiterated the storekeeper. With
a snort of disgust Seventyfiver left, and
presently entered the blacksmith’s-shop,
airing his needs. Old Barney couldn’t
help, and after trying everyone else he
could think of Seventyfiver made for the
pub. Bung couldn’t produce any nails,
but the old bloke accepted what he could
produce, poured down two, and had his
third on its way when suddenly he
stopped with a gasp. A spasm distorted
his dial, he clutched desperately at his
midriff, then, turning, he left the bar with
a slow, staggering shuffle. Down the road
he went, still bent over and holding his
middle, till once more he reached the
store. “A-about them nails, George,” he
began. “It’s no good, old man,” frowned
the storekeeper. “I tell y’ I haven’t got a
nail in the place.” “Not just a couple?”
“Not one.” “Awright, George, awright.”
Seventyfiver heaved a resigned sigh, and
grasped his waistband more firmly.
“Better give us a few good strong buttons
then, an’ if y’ve got a needle an’ a bit o’
thread I’ll sew the blasted things on
now !”


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON £
OSWUJVA*
t a. fituh *,
unK
Trade
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
BEAU OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPS
OPERATORS
•TEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I ! PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“IACKSUL,” BRISBANE
u
m
frtisßvtjj
*
«I I*
.....
n
1
GUARANTEED. NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
Amp
ILBEYS
N I
Sr
a
** e
at &ccaAccn
“Betcha”; Drifted back from a two-
weeks’ trip to find “Old-timer” inquiring
about the blokes who taught working-
bullocks their jobs. Yes, mate; there are
still a few of ’em left, looking on with
mildly-inquiring optics at the whirl of
steel, strike and struggle that has super-
seded them. One old cove (with the
accent on the adjective) declares there
“just weren’t nuthin’ to it, really,” though
I know some of the beasts he “broke”
were wild, mountain-bred animals that
would as soon charge through a bloke
as go round. Old Jim’s method, after
selecting his youngster, was to yard it,
then, with the aid of ropes, and the yard
fence on one side, he’d yoke it to a de-
pendable old worker—one that was
stronger than the newchum. It was then
turned out with its coupled mate, to
graze and get used to the combination,
before it was hooked in the team.
Usually the yoke was not removed until
the new animal had learned the job.
Every beast had its own place in the
team, grew to know it and never worked
anywhere else. Like horses, and dogs,
and everything else, there were big differ-
ences among bullocks, too. Some weren’t
a great deal of trouble, while others
needed a wealth of patience, persever-
ance and miles of language before they
learned to pull their weight. Best bul-
locky I knew was Ned, a tall, rangy
old cove who claimed kinship to Dan and
Ned Kelly. Ned’s powers of persuasion
were as colorful as his bullocks, and his
his home-made whip the longest I’ve seen.
Every beast knew him, and sometimes
I’ll swear those bovines were about as
proud of Ned as that grizzled old coot
was of his team.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: The bucolic young man
with the milk on his boots eyed us and
said, “I got some fencin’ y’ can have on -
contract. I’m cuttin’ me place into
smaller paddicks.” We took it on. While
we worked we noticed that the young
fellow never seemed to stop. He was up
at 4 a.m., had his cows milked by 5.30,
the milk separated by 6.0, pigs fed and
separator cleaned and cows re-paddocked
by 7.0. He took perhaps 15 minutes for
breakfast, then dug into his ploughing
and other jobs, had art hour for dinner,
got at it again, collected the cows about
4 p.m., had them milked and the asso-
ciated chores done by 7.30, took a meal,
did a bit more, and hit the blankets about
8.30. “Where’s it gettin’ y’?” Mat asked
him, during one of his rare visits to us.
“Whadda y’ goin’t’ be like twenty years
from now?” He seemed a bit startled
by that, and went off thoughtfully. “Y’
got him thinkin’,” I said. The next night
he came to our camp «■ and said, “What
do you blokes reckon y’re makin’?” Mat
reflected. “If we couldn’t clear six quid
a week we’d chuck it,” he said. The
farmer opened his mouth, then shut it.
He gave us a wild look, muttered a good-
“Hang on a minute, Jim, and I'll come and give you a leg-up .”
night and departed. Next morning he
was up as usual, but after the milking
chores put on his best suit and drove off
somewhere in the sulky. He was back
by noon, and came straight to us. “I
done it,” he said, with a brooding look.
“Went straight over an’ asked Millie
Thomas if she’d marry me. She will. It
was bearin’ about your six quid clear
made me do it. I bin toilin’ on this place
four years an’ never made near that.
Reckon Millie can do the milkin’ an’
I’ll do me own flamin’ fencin’ an’ that.
Man’s got t’ use his head in this game.”
He went off. “Gripes,” Mat mourned,
“if I’d thought he was goin’t’ do that I
wouldn’t ha’ told him. Poor blankard,”
And he picked up the crowbar.
“Chuck”; Jerry hitched his nag under
the pepper-tree opposite the blacksmith’s
and mooched slowly down the street.
“Keepin’ dry, Jerry,” came a lugubrious
voice from the post-office verandah as
he passed. “Want rain pretty bad.”
“Too right,” Jerry agreed absently.
“Feed’s gettin’ short.” He drifted on past
the comer where a bloke was rolling a
smoke. “Country’s lookin’ bare, Jerry,”
greeted the bloke gloomily. “Crops’ll be
feelin’ it.” “Yair, won’t be much good,
Mike,” he answered indifferently. “No
growth at all.” A few yards further, and
it was old Barney driving his milker
home. “Dry wedther f’r milkin’, Barney,”
Jerry said in a hopeless voice. “Man
might’s well sell out.” He reached the
store, and was turning leisurely through
the doorway when a cheery voice hailed
him from the street. “Good day, Jerry,
old man,” it called. “How are you to-
day?” Jerry’s jaw dropped, and he
stared at the slowly-moving truck.
“Who . . . who’s the cove in ol’ Bill’s
truck?” he asked the storekeeper.
“Seemed t’ know me.” “Why, it was old
Bill himself,” was the reply. “Old Bill!”
Jerry continued to stare. “Well, what’s
th’ matter with ’im, then? ’S’e gorn a bit
queer or somethin’?” he asked, “Gripes,
y’ should ’a’ heard the funny way he was
talkin’! ”
* * * *
“Simon”: That par. (B. 6/7/’49) on
whether a tree grows from the tip up
brings something to mind. In 1819
Captain Cox, who made the road over
the Blue Mountains, reached the junction
of Cudgegong River and Eurunderie
Creek at Mudgee with a mob of cattle.
He and his men camped under a big
peppermint-gum, and, taking up the land
around, he left instructions that the tree
was never to be removed. Five genera-
tions of woodmen have honored this, and
many descendants of the original Cox
have picnicked there. Sixty-five years or
so ago we schoolkids on passing often
legged one another up into the first fork.
The tree is now probably 300 years old ;
when I recently saw it that fork was about
18ft. from the ground.
* * * *
“M.U.R.”; Don’t you believe that it
is “an old bushman’s trick” to hang a
shag up with half an onion in it to make
it eatable (B. 13/7/’49). No self-respect-
ing bushman would eat a shag if it were
hung with a gallon of beer inside it.
* * * *
“Trim”: Old Blackie Berry has a 1200-
acre block of good grazing land, but
doesn’t do much with it outside of run-
ning a few hundred sheep, enough to
keep him in life’s liquid necessities and
a bit of tucker. There’s only a ring-
fence, and Berry lives in a tent in the
corner of the paddock. Four neighbors,
with an eye to running a sheep to the
acre with fodder assistance from
potential arable land along the creek
frontage, have been trying to buy the
place ever since sheep “came good.”
Shaggy gets a whisper that Berry’s ripe
for selling and makes the trip out. The
old-timer is stretched out on the bunk,
but is pleased to see Shaggy, clears a
space on the corner of the bunk, invites
Shaggy to sit, states that it is indeed
right he is going to sell out, he was fed-
up with the joint, all the neighbors had
fallen-out with him and he was going to
cash-in and take a trip south. Shaggy
commences to fill out an authority for
sale. “How much brigalow and belar,
Blackie?” he asks. “About 900 acres.”
“How much cleaned up?” “Have a
rum,” says Blackie. “Just tell me how
much you’ve improved,” says Shaggy.
“Not till we’ve ’ad a Tom Thumb.”
Shaggy has a good stiff rum poured out
by Blackie. There’s only one glass, so
Shaggy has to wait for the old-timer to
have one. Then he is told “there’s a
coupla ’undred acres rung and clear.”
“How much still green?” asks Shaggy.
It’s the same procedure over again.
“ ’Ave a drink.” “No, just tell me how
much, then we’ll have another one.” “I
ain’t sayin’ another word till you’ve ’ad
another Tom Thumb.” So it goes on
through each question, the coolibah-
frontage country, the fencing, size of
tanks , and dams, etc. Three hours and
a dozen rums later Shaggy has a fair
general description of the property and
asks Blackie to sign the authority. “Can’t
see without me glasses, and I’ve lorst
’em,” says Blackie. “You read it to me.”
Shaggy obliges. “Gees,” says Blackie.
“W’en yer ’ave it put ter yer like that it’s
a blanky good place, ain’t it? Too
blanky good ter let some no’-oper git ’is
’ands on. I’d ’ate t’ see the place go back.
Reckon I’ll end me days ’ere after all.”
THE DRAD GUMS.
Gigantic pillars bear the arching night:
They are the gums, dead, but their mighty
roots
Hold still the silver branching weight aloft,
Cold hearts from which no resurrection
shoots.
They sound like trumpets’ lightning through
the soft
Chiming of moonlight in the vaulted sky.
To me, awake or drowned in secret sleep,
Though all the night is deaf beyond, they cry:
Know that the sickle-cutting sun will sweep
And your leaves die like ours. A frosty sea
Will search your roots and wash away desire.
Then death will seal the season’s change, and we
Who light your heart now with our silver fire
Will crack in the great storms, and be no
more
Than a child’s garden fenced with twigs, a frost
Of shells crushed and bleaching on the shore.
TASMANIA.
GWENDOLINE HARWOOD.


THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Incorporated in Victoria.
Est. 1885
One Executor with the knowledge of many
When you take the serious step of
appointing someone to act as manager,
executor or trustee of your estate you are
entitled to be fully satisfied as to capacity
to do what is required.
The future of others who mean much to
you depends upon your choice.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia
meets all requirements. For sixty years
it has rendered service precisely similar
to what you require.
It has built up a fund of knowledge and
experience which, through trained execu-
tives, is readily available to you.
Its directors are men of substance and
standing, themselves well accustomed to
the discharge of very responsible duties.
Their accumulated experience is also at
your disposal.
Write for Free Booklet.
333 Collins St., Melbourne—2 O’Connell St., Sydney—39 B-402 Queen St., Brisbane
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
The onlv Trustee company having offices each with its own Board of Directors and management in three States —Victoria, New South Wales and Queensland.
. J tr j —-———^
The WILD CAT
COUMN
Colonial Mutual Life
Ordinary Department.
Ex- Written Added to
Dec., Income. Claims, penses. Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
From Accident Dept., £20,000 .. "
1939.. 769.186 1,530,963 523,061 79,658 1,654,504
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO . .1
From Accident Dept., £27,500 ..
1944.. 1,877,866 649,323 65,933 2,456,087
Superannuation Fund, £25,000 .. J
1945.. 574.971 2,005,388 717,893 25,146'
Superannuation Fund, £25,000 .. 2,741,544
To Contingency Reserve, £60,000 J
1946.. 619 2,229,635 883,201 23,821 1
Superannuation Fund, £25,000 .. V 3,010,962
To Contingency Reserve, £70,000 J
1947.. 105.720 2,375,197 1,007,659 40,545 1 „ ~9 n
Superannuation Fund, £25,000 .. f ’ ’
1948.. 141.240 2,560,352 1,174,398 45,936 j . cr.o
Superannuation Fund, £25,000 .. J ’
Industrial Department.
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. Funds.*
£ £ £ £
Added Guarantee Fund, £l9B . . 1
1939 ..1,026,215 447,864 263,059 [ , n,o oti
Written off, £3702 .. .. 5 . 213 * Bj *
Superannuation Fund, £9OO
Added Guarantee Fund, £2072 ..
1944 ..1,352,756 713,905 844,273 R R7K 917
Written off, £5230 .. .. 6,675,217
Superannuation Fund, £6OOO ,
Added Guarantee Fund, £4212 ..
1945 ..1,470,222 738,842 376,956
Written off, £5098 .. .. 17,021,752
Superannuation Fund, £7OOO ..
To Contingency Reserve, £50,000..
1946 .. 1,541,158 749,335 426,579'
Written off, £2804 .. .. -7,377,605
Superannuation Fund, £BOOO . .
1947 ..1,654,231 743,841 444,368'
Written oft, £2768 .. .. 1 7,832,362
Superannuation Fund, £BOOO
1948 .. 1,764,756 731,652 482,958'
Written off, £2712 .. ~ 18,272,074
Superannuation Fund, £BOOO ....
* Includes Contingency Funds, etc.
The Colonial, which writes ordinary,
industrial, accident and sickness contracts
throughout the Commonwealth, New
Zealand, South Africa and Britain, cele-
brates its 75th anniversary with record
amounts of new business and total in-
come as well as a larger surplus for dis-
tribution and maintenance of bonus rates
to policyholders —there are no share-
holders.
The new business figure was £4,202,076
higher at £36,699,950, of which 84.9 p.c.
(£31,167,037, up £3,399,683) was ordinary
and the balance (£5,532,913, up £802,393)
industrial. The average amount per ord.
policy (£1283 as against £6BB in 1943)
was a record, too. Group assurance —a
line the co. pioneered—inflation, a high
level of employment at rising wage-rates
and growing consciousness of the ad-
vantages of life assurance all helped to
bump up the figures.
Income from all sources shot up by
£1,191,492, reaching £10,160,733, to
which premiums, etc., contributed
£8,196,289 (up £1,015,749) and interest,
dividends, etc., £1,964,444 (up £175,743).
Claims, which were well within expec-
tation, took £3,347,990 and exes.
£1,785,585, which includes £206,170
(down £729) of taxes, etc. The excess of
income over outgo was thus £5,027,154,
of which £73,950 was used to write down
the book-value of securities and other
assets, thus increasing the inner strength,
£34,500 was set to the staff superannua-
tion fund and £4,918(704 was added to
life and accident funds, raising them to
£51,623,377. In addition there are con-
tingency reserves of £1,025,000 and
guarantee funds of £24,949, all belong-
ing to policyholders.
The life and accident funds alone ex-
ceeded the actuary’s valuation of liabili-
ties under policies by £1,231,868 (up
£110,915), which was the surplus avail-
able for distribution:
1940. 1946. 1947. 1948.
Surplus; £ £ £ £
Ordinary .. 836,577 868,019 937,018 1,026,231
Industrial.. 121,758 135,685 117,443 126,180
Accident .. 46,083 68,373 66,492 79,457
Total .. 1,004,418 1,072,077 1,120,953 1,231,868
The amount distributed as reversionary
bonuses savings on savings - was
£869,558 ordinary, £99,286 industrial
and £44,178 accident; balances were
carried forward. Bonus rates were on
the same scale as for the previous year,
ranging on ordinary whole-life contracts
from 255. p.c. on policies less than five
years in force to 60s. p.c. on those 45
years old or more.
Leaving taxes out of the reckoning,
exes, took 15.8 p.c. of the year’s net
premiums and consideration for annui-
ties in the ordinary and 30.9 p.c. in the
industrial section, compared with 15.3
p.c. and 30.2 p.c. respectively for the
previous year. The ratios are in line
with the size and scope of the business.
The gross rate of interest earned on
mean assurance funds in the three depart-
ments was £4 Is. 6d. p.c. (down 4d.), and
the net rate, after deducting taxes,
£3 14s. 3d. p.c. (up Bd.). In valuing its
policy liabilities the office assumes that the
funds will earn at the mixed rate of 3 p.c.
and 2i p.c. in the ordinary and at 2\ p.c.
in the industrial department. Soon all
policies are to be valued on a 2+ p.c.
basis, reserves necessary for the purpose
having been accumulated. The aim is
to protect future bonus-paying capacity.
To help offset the decline in the rate
of interest earned over the last decade —
it is the major problem facing life
offices today—the co. is placing a greater
proportion of new investments in mort-
gages (up £2,809,300 last term) and
shareholdings (up £204,213):
1947. p.c. 1948. p.c.
Public securities _
and debentures £29,952,751 G 0.5 £.31,364,238 57.8
Mortgages .. 11,134,463 22.4 13,943,763 25.7
Freeholds, etc. .. 3,621,186 7.8 3,839,079 7.1
Loans on policies 1,744,915 3.5 1,940,601 3.6
Debtors, etc. .. 460,210 0.9 533,704 1.0
Cash and deposits 891,262 1.9 850,157 1.6
Co. shares •. 1,269,285 2.6 1,473,498 2.7
Other assets •. 169,370 0.4 281,144 0.5
£49,243,442 £54,226,184
Government, securities increased by
£1,411,487 and freeholds by £217,893.
All things considered, the co.’s position is
a very satisfactory one.
National Reliance Investment Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1940.. 11,948 4J p.c. = 11,250 698 55,035
Capital loss, etc., £3637 . . • • 51,398
1941.. 13,569 ii p.c. = 11,250 2319 53,717
Capital loss, etc., £4775 .. .. 48,942
1942.. 10,055 Sip.c. = 9,375 680 49,622
Capital loss, etc., £728 .. . . 48,894
1943.. 9,660 3jp.c. = 9,375 285 49,179
Capital loss, etc., £7O .. . . 49,109
1944.. 10,638 4 p.c. = 10,000 638 49,747
Capital loss, etc., £45 . . . . 49,702
1945.. 11,025 4 p.c. = 10,000 1625 51,327
Capital loss, etc., £7O .. .. 51,257
1946.. 10,931 4 p.c. = 10,000 931 52,188
Capital gain, £1767 . . . . 53,955
1947.. 12,808 41 p.c. = 10,802 2006 55,961
Capital gain, £1054 .. .. 57,015
1948.. 18,654 5 p.c. = 12,208 3446 60,461
Capital gain, £412 .. .. 60,873
1949.. 27,028 51 p.c. = 19,571 7457 68,330
Shares in this class of co. are essentially
a long-term investment, with security of
income and gradual appreciation of
capital value as the targets. Divs. are
usually moderate until substantial re-
serves have been accumulated. The latter
accrue partly from undistributed earnings
and partly from capital profits on change
of investments, though these changes
sometimes result in a capital loss, as a
glance at the table shows —with the
advent of war the co. pulled out of the
American and London markets and re-
invested the funds in Australia and New
Zealand without serious mishap.
Since the co. kicked off early in
1930 the world has experienced a severe
depression, followed by partial recovery,
and then a global war and post-war infla-
tionary boom and widening investment
opportunities. So, although it has never
failed to pay a div., it hasn’t had a chance
to put on much fat either. Paid capital
advanced from £50,082 at the beginning
to £250,000 in 1938, and remained steady
until shortly before the close of accounts
in 1947, when 100,000 new 10s. shares
were issued at par, followed by a similar
issue a year later, and the issue of
140,000, also at par, at the beginning of
March last, thus raising the total on the
share register to £420,000, which has the
assistance of £68,330 of reserves.
Last term £94,202 was added to the
book-value of securities, which appear
at cost:
1942. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital.. £250,000 £300,000 £350,000 £420,000
Liabilities* .. 58,747 69,264 111,299 122,398
Tax reserve.. 927 2,755 4,193 5,516
Investments .. 357,656 383,315 514,284 608,486
Sundry debtors 1,280 1,222 931 1,197
Cash.. .. 9,735 43,443 10,738 6,561
* Includes provision for div. ’
The number of investments totals 323, and
the proportion of fixed-interest-bearing
securities has been strengthened, raising
bonds and debentures to 8.8 p.c., pref.
shares to 11.9 p.c. and ord. shares to
79.3 p.c. (down 3.5 p.c.) of total holdings.
When the books closed the market value
of the portfolio was £726,293, or 16.2 p.c.
above cost. Much of the margin has
since disappeared, and market prices are
likely to fluctuate in the future. The
securities, however, are bought for long-
term holding with an eye to satisfactory
earning power and growth of the par-
ticular undertaking.
Last term £33,145 net (up £10,253) was
gathered in divs., etc. Including £2500
for taxation, exes, took £6117, leaving a
profit of £27,028 (up £8974), equal to 7.6
p.c. on average capital employed as
against 6.1, 5 and 4.4 p.c. for the three
preceding terms. The div. was lifted from
5 p.c. to 5£ p.c., which will call for £3928
less than last term’s profit on capital as it
now stands. Insurance, banks and finance
(15 p.c.), textiles (11 p.c.), chain- and
department-stores (8.9 p.c.) and Govern-
ment bonds and debentures (8.8 p.c.)
figure prominently among the co.’s hold-
ings.
The outlook is obscured by the Com-
munist-inspired coal strike, which, if con-
tinued much longer, will seriously affect
earnings of manufacturers and others.
Although current dividend rates are, for
the most part, well covered, costs are
high and the whole economy is passing
from 9. sellers’ to a buyers’ market, with
prices everywhere tending to ease. Every-
thing depends upon how far the pen-
dulum swings, which in turn will depend
upon the level of employment and pro-
ductivity and maintenance of a properly-
balanced cost-price structure.
Mindful of the co.’s satisfactory per-
formance during the 1930’s slump, the
market prices the f.-p. 10s. shares at
10s. 10d., giving a return of 5.1 p.c. on
a 5| p.c. div. basis. Net tangible cover
(book-value) is 11s. 7d.
Automobile Fire and General (Melb.)
Bonus , Dividends N
to Prefs. Nominal
Sur- Policy- 20 To Re- Re-
April, pluo. holers, p.c. Ordinaries, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £ £
1940 18,u«a. o.uif Duo 20 p.c.= 9,t»00 4,u 120,,»66
1941 17,799 3524 500 20 „ „ 9,500 4,275 124,641
Proceeds share “rights,” £149 .. .. 125,790
1942 4,914 4500 500 20 p.c.= 9,500 116,204
1943 10,478 2861 500 20 „ „ 9,500 113,821
25 p.c.
1944 17,342 4157 625 25 „ „ 11,875 685 114,506
1945 17,863 4854 625 25 „ „ 11,875 1,009 115,515
1946 20,664 4401 625 25 „ „ 11,875 3,763 119,278
5 p.c.
1947 14,538 125 5 „ „ 2,375 12,038 131,316
18 p.c.
1948 20,353 450 15 „ „ 7,125 12,778 144,094
Added investment reserve, etc., £2467 146,561
20 p.c.
1949 29,143 500 20 p.e.= 9,500 19,143 165,704
Surplus shown before allowing for unexpired risks.
In a field which many others have found
poorly remunerative, this underwriter,
with predominantly auto, connections,
has paid divs. averaging 17.5 p.c. over the
last 20 years, and at end April last
£165,704 of reserves had been accumu-
lated to support and assist the £50,000 of
paid capital, which includes £2500 of 8
p.c. pref. money that advances with the
ords. beyond that rate. For a while the
co. Tan into a bad patch after the war,
when quick growth of the number of
vehicles on the road brought a sharp in-
crease in the accident rate, and the cost
of repairs rocketed with recurrent wage-
lifts and introduction of the 40-hour
week. No bonuses to policyholders have
been paid since 1946.
After reserving the customary 40 p.c.
of premium income for unexpired risks,
underwriting resulted in a loss of £4613
in 1947, and the div. came down with a
rush from 25 p.c. to 5 p.c. Since then
two lifts —one of 12? p.c. in Aug., 1947,
and another of 15 p.c. in April, 1948 —in
motor-vehicle comprehensive premium
rates, together with continued expansion
of the business and a tight hold upon con-
trollable outgoings, have enabled the co.
to show a profit on underwriting and to
lift the div. to 15 p.c. in 1948 and to
20 p.c. last terra.
A growth of £36,735 in last year’s net
premium income was accompanied by a
pleasing drop of £3 Bs. p.c. in the loss
rate and a saving of 4s. p.c. in the expense
ratio:
Net Pre- Loss Expense
April, iniums. Claims. Exes. Rate. Rate.
1938.. 134,750 59,618 48,441 44.2 p.c. 35.9 p.c.
1942.. 110,861 46,017 68,438 41.8 „ 62.2 „
1943.. 97,359 35,654 61,136 36.6 „ 62.8 „
1944.. 100,844 37,069 56,508 36.8 „ 56.0 „
1945.. 101,862 36,500 56,628 85.8 „ 55.6 „
1946.. 112,208 48,455 51,942 43.2 „ 46.8 „
1947.. 139,275 77,536 55,525 55.6 „ 39.8 „
1948.. 164,569 91,603 60,116 55.6 „ 36.5 „
1949.. 201,304 105,193 73,043 52.2 „ 36.3 „
After allowing £14,685 (up £4710) for un-
expired risks, the underwriting surplus
was £5508 better at £8383, Interest and
divs. turned in £6075 (down £1428), or
12,1 p.c. on capital, making the net
amount available to shareholders from all
sources £14,458 (up £4080), or 28.9 p.c.
on capital as against 20.7, 7.4, 33 and
34.9 p.c. back to 1945.
Because of heavy reinsurance of third-
party risks the co. has escaped much of
the loss connected with this now-unprofit-
able class of business. And since re-
newal of its contract in this field is likely
to be on less favorable terms than
formerly, the loss experience might
worsen, unless the increased scale of
premiums now asked for on third-party
contracts is granted and proves adequate.
It is doubtful whether any improvement
in the loss rate on the rest of the co.’s
business need be looked for at the
moment.
Both policyholders and shareholders
are well protected:
1940. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital.. £50,000 £50,000 £50,000 £50,000
Liabilities! .. 33,182 74,814 73,877 84,008
Tax reserve ~. 2,700 5,962 6,962 10,930
Freehold . . 48,548 48,548 48,548 48,548
Furniture, etc. 4,464 4,450 4,193 3,862
Investments, etc. 185,910 179,610 189,750 217,889
Book debts .. 15,179 27,519 36,952 45,446
Cash, etc. .. 27,077 1,964 2,066 1,145
+ Excluding provision for unexpired risks.
Last term there yvas a switch in the in-
vestment portfolio from Government
bonds (£94,173, down £72,472) to shares
in other cos. (£105,946, up £100,615),
which augurs well for a better return
from interest and divs.
At 375. 6d. (335. a year ago) the pound
orcfs. paid to 10s. each return 5.3 p.c. on
a 20 p.c. div. basis. Including the reserve
for unexpired risks (£48,500), net tangible
cover is 445. lOd. The well-protected
prefs. seldom come on to the market.
Swallow & Ariell, Ltd. (Melb.)
Swallow and Ariell, Ltd., and Subsidiaries.
Dividends To Re- Re-
April, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £>£,£,
1942.. 6 p.c. 5 p.c. 16,000 8,548 114,536
Net loss sale of assets, £9415 .. .. 105,121
1943.-42,571 6 p.c. 5 p.c. 16,000 26,571 131,692
1944.. 6 „ 5 „ 16,000 33,238 164,930
To staff fund, £5OOO 159,930
Deferred Maintenance Reserve'
* appears, £10,500 ~ .. -34,164 194,094
1945. .40,664 6 p.c. 5i p.c. 17,000
To staff fund, £5OOO 189,094
1946. .53,523 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 18,000 35,523 224,617
To staff fund; £5OOO 219,617
Deferred expenditure, £1657 .. ..217,960
1947. 8 p.c. 8 p.c. 24,000 41,664 259,624
To staff fund, £5OOO 254,624
Deferred expenditure, £2153 ... .. 252,471
1948. 8 p.c. 8 p.c. 24,000 41,910 294,381
To staff fund, £5500 288,881
From tax reserve, £22,018 .. .. 310,899
Reduction reserves, £2371 .. .. 308,528
1949. .60,377 8 p.c. 8 p.c. 24,000 36,377 344,905
This old-established biscuit, cake and
plum-pudding business is in better trim
than it has been for many a year. Of
the two subsidiaries (in the books at
£28,007 after deducting £20,000 deprecia-
tion) the ice-cream one is a steady divi-
dend-payer, but the other, which turns
out dehydrated fruits and vegetables, isn’t
much of a help—it made a small profit
last term as against a loss in the previous
year. The amount received from sub-
sidiaries last term was £9251 (up £3238).
The parent co.’s own sales were “some-
what greater,” despite shortage of labor
and tinplate which restricted full-scale
output of biscuits, the co.’s chief line, and
puddings. The management, however, is


THAT
iT
the
This responsibility
is yours
Your Tenefldaries have every right to expect that your
estate will be handled with the utmost care. If your
judgment is faulty, imprudent administration can endanger
assets built up by your energy and foresight. However, it
is a simple matter to provide competent control: the
appointment of Burns Philp Trust Company as executor
or trustee ensures that your beneficiaries will be protected
at every turn.
A copy of "Hands That Never Leave the Wheel" will be
forwarded on request. Full details of the Company's many
services are given in this interesting booklet.
DIRECTORS:
James Burns Joseph Mitchell P. T. W. Black Eric Priestley Lee
MANAGER; L. S. Parker SECRETARY: E. R. Overton. A.F.I.A.
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR • TRUSTEE • AGENT
Constituted by Special Act of the N.S.W. Parliament.
Head Office: 7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Tel.: BU 5901 Box 543, G.P.0., Sydney
131*2-49
CARLTON BREWERY LTD.
(Inc. in Victoria)
Change of Address
On and after Ist August, 1949, the Registered
Office of the Company will be Situated at':—
Ist FLOOR
BROKEN HILL CHAMBERS
31 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE
TELEPHONE MB 2068
E. A. DELSARTE, Manager
ĵ
A
w
w»tc«W»s
war'
f«irt
5$S
HITE
BPS tSJ
Oh*Sff^
iS tn
BLACmiE
SCOTCH WHISKY
Distilled and Blended in Scotland
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
Position Vacant.
MANAGER required for Queensland Gold
Mining Company. Apply G.P.O. Box
1805 W, Brisbane, supplying details ex-
perience, qualifications, copy references,
etc.
Missing Friends.
POPHAM. —Anyone knowing the where-
abouts of the issue of Charles Popham
(Carpenter), and Annie Popham (for-
merly Adams), of Yatala, Adelaide,
kindly communicate with T. J. PURCELL,
Solicitor, 66 King Street, Sydney.
SOUTHERAN. —Anyone knowing the
whereabouts of the next-of-kin of TASMAN
CLEMENT SOUTHERAN, bom at Bekins-
field, Tasmania, in 1895, and died United
States, 1939, kindly communicate with
T. J’rpUBCELL, Solicitor, 66 King Street,
Sydhey.
The Toast of
Connoisseursl
1
brandy
c4mtralian Uletrcpolilanfife
1
Service to AUSTRALIA over
the past 54 years is the proud record of
the Metropolitan. Conservative in its aims,
but always liberal in its treatment of its
policyholders, the Metropolitan has never
departed from the soundest principles of
Life Assurance.
Its valuation bases are among the lowest
and strongest in Australia, thus ensuring
future stability and Annual Bonus
Additions.
TODAY’S PROTECTION . . .
TOMORROW’S SECURITY
AUSTRALIAN M
#■l—. _ />
ASSURANCE COMPANY ITD-
(Inc. in Queensland 1895)
ASSETS EXCEED £3,722,520
DIRECTORS:
W. A. H. Allworth
J. A. Henderson
Col. Alfred Spain
P. H. Phillips
T. Keith Smith
Col. R. S. Coward
General Manager:
E. W. ROBINSON
Asst. General Manager and
Actuary:
W. J. COOKSEY, F.F.A.
Secretary:
GEORGE LESLIE. F.C.I.S.
HEAD OFFICE:
THE METROPOLITAN BUILDING
HUNTER AND BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY
BRANCH OFFICES;
Victoria:
The Metropolitan Building, 89-91 Queen Street, Melbourne.
R. S. Johnston, Manager.
Queensland:
The Metropolitan Building, 367-369 Queen Street, Brisbane.
J. L. Richter, Manager.
South Australia:
The Metropolitan Building, 22-Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
A. B. Bolton, Manager.
more concerned with costs and
production difficulties than with
sales. Gross earnings of the
group (£328,004) stepped up
£4886, Including provision for
depreciation (£40,934, up £8113)
and taxation (£44,942, down
£10,669), exes. (£267,627) took
all the gain and £5533 besides.
Still, the £60,377 of profit was
20.1 p.c. on capital as against
21.9, 21.8, 17.8, 13.3, 16.4 and
14.1 p.c. back to 1943. That
leaves out of the figuring an un-
explained reduction of £2371 in
reserves, and addition thereto of
£22,018 previously overprovided
for taxation. The all-round 8
p.c. div. was repeated—capital
includes 100,000 £1 8 p.c. prefs.
which advance with the ords.
beyond that rate —and it looks
as comfortable as anything of
the kind can look under exist-
ing conditions.
Before the war competition
and difficulties associated with
plant and costs kept earnings
and divs. at moderate levels.
Earnings have since responded
to inflationary and other influ-
ences, and the board has wisely
seized the opportunity to build
up the co.’s resources —liberal
allowances have been made for
depreciation, etc., the div. has
been kept down, and more has
been put by than has been dis-
tributed, During the eight years
to 1947 the book-value of free-
holds was reduced by £76,460,
plant by £110,470, and £421,236
was added to the holding of
cash, etc. Since then freehold
has continued to be vigorously
written down, while £87,417 net
(£39,747 of it in respect of last
term) has been added to plant,
thus strengthening the co.’s
competitive power and its ability
to win whatever profits are to
be had in the trade:
Consolidated Figures.
1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Creditors .. 98,078 111,548
tax reserve 127,331 76,424 48,878
Freeholds .. 129,913 113,665 102,913
Plant, etc... 44,986 92,656 132,403
Stocks .. 69,373 91,247 111,091
Debtors . . 93,194 94,652 107,560
Cash, etc... 423,908 386,168 360,857
Despite the year’s outlay on
plant the more-or-less liquid
surplus (£404,088) improved by
£21,530.
Though the coal strike can be
expected to give the current
term’s earnings a jolt, the mar-
ket expresses its confidence in
the future of the business by
pricing the 30s. ords. paid to
20s. each at 38s. 3d. (425, early
in 1949) and the pound prefs.
at 38s. 6d. The return in each
case is approx. 4.1 p.c. on an 8
p.c. div. basis. Net tangible
cover is £6 Bs, lid. prefs. and
545. 6d. ords.
Central Victoria Dredging,
N.L., formed about 18 months
ago by Gold Mines of Australia
and Gold Exploration and
Finance of Australia to work
three alluvial gold properties in
Victoria, expects to have its first
dredge ready for work on the
Jim Crow area about the end of
this month; but when the
machine will begin digging de-
pends upon how long the coal
strike lasts. Here’ 10,500,000 c.y.
was bored to average 2.5 gr., of
which 2.12 gr. is expected to be
recovered. Average depth of
the wash is about 23ft., over-
burden varies from 12ft. to 18ft.,
and boring disclosed some
sunken timber. At the Amphi-
theatre area the pontoon for the
co.’s second dredge has been
assembled, but the machine it-
self, bought from Victoria Gold
Dredging Co., is still being over-
hauled. It is hoped to begin
digging here about the end of
1949, when the State Electricity
Commission completes the new
power-line to the dredge site.
* * * *
The outlook at Hill 50, Mt.
Magnet (W.A.), has been
brightened by high values en-
countered in a diamond drill-
hole from the 600 ft. level. From
a depth of 92ft., where the lode
was intersected, to 140 ft. aver-
age core assay was 9dwt.; from
140 ft. to 152 ft., Io2dwt.; and
from 152 ft. to 216 ft., 6.9dwt.
The hole i§ being continued and
is still in ore,
* * * *
The new “Queensland Mining
Guide,” just put out by the De-
partment of Mines in the
northern State, is full of useful
hints to prospectors who want
to know where and how to
search tor various minerals and
how to fulfil the conditions re-
quired under State mining laws
and so avoid the risk of losing
a claim through not properly
protecting the rights to it. There
is also much helpful informa-
tion about sampling, valuation,
use of explosives, health and
safety and the treatment, re-
covery and disposal of minerals.


m ite
of
m
ktf
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
62 YEARS OP SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
j ,y
y/a z,. '% :w//Mm
. ""fa- v/,.. Z/zmMmMz. C fzwm----
'////,
yvff///y//////^//y r
myh ft **©
y/
-^|^E=^-irr^
for
SPECIAL
FACILITIES
“ unaccompanied baggage
99
8.0.A.C. takes pleasure in announcing that your heavy baggage
and personal and household effects now can be despatched along
many Speedbird routes for only a quarter of the usual excess
baggage charge! This new facility means that you need no
longer be separated from your bulky possessions for any con-
siderable time. Furthermore, you need not necessarily be a
traveller to take advantage of this new facility. We can fly
your effects at any time at these same low rates.
BOOK NOW ! Your local 8.0.A.C. Appointed Agent makes
no charge for expert advice, detailed information or bookings.
SPEEDBIRD ROUTES ACROSS THE WORLD
FLY BOM
M 26
Information & Bookings : Qantas Empire Airways Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Townsville, Cairns, Darwin (General Agents
in Australia ) or from Booking Agents in all cities.
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION
IN ASSOCIATION WITH Q.E.A., S.A.A.. T.E.A.L.
Businees, Rollery, Etc.
Shares and the Strike
Although there were some re-
coveries, noticeably in Felt and
Textiles ords., the sharemarket
on the whole was more depressed
last week. Broken‘Hill Prop, old
shares were available at a few
pence above 405., and the rights
to the new issue could be picked
up at Bs. 4d. (making 38s. 4d.
fully paid). Anyone interested
in taking up B.H.P. shares should
look back to B. 15/6/ ’49 and see
the co.’s tabulated history over
the past eight years; it is ex-
tremely impressive, notwith-
standing the bad days through
which Australian industry is now
passing as a result of the Com-
munist-directed hold-up of coal,
other essential materials and
transport. The present seems a
very good time to pick up
B.H.P. shares cheaply. The size
of the present new issue as well
as the industrial stoppage are
depressing the market for the
scrip,
Bradford Cotton ords. are
available at 415., giving a yield
of 4.9 p.c. if the 10 p.c. div. is
maintained. Some of this co.’s
activities are carried on in Vic-
toria, where restrictions on the
use of industrial power are not so
severe as in N. S, Wales, but the
market apparently has taken a
pessimistic view of immediate
prospects, hence the drop in
price. Before this year’s new
issue went out to the public
Bradford old ords. were up to
565. A large new factory is
being put up by Bradford in the
Newcastle area. The co. is very
efficient, and manufactures basic
cotton materials. The shares are
attractive for holding.
Bitumen and Oil Refineries
shares have fallen from around
38s. to 225. The market is await-
ing accounts to June 30 with in-
terest. There was overspecula-
tion in these shares to begin
with, and the market now takes
a much more sober view of pros-
pects, The Caltex people have
a big influence in the fortunes
and affairs of this concern. It is
apparently producing efficiently,
but its profit-margins and rate of
overall profit have yet to be de-
monstrated.
Metropolitan Cement shares,
paid to 205., are available at
about 16s. now. This co. was
the centre of a first-class political
uproar towards the end of last
year. It received “Labor”-Gov-
ernment preference in the allot-
ment of dollars for the purpose
of buying second-hand plant
from the United States, and
Arnold S. Taylor figured
prominently in the promotion.
The plant is now being erected,
but it will be remarkable if the
prospectus promise of produc-
tion this year is fulfilled,
Rubtex shares were listed last
week. They have been a great
market disappointment. Of ss.
denominations, they were issued
last year to the public on a bas\s
of 10s. each. They are now
around 3s. lid. The Mandels,
the Landas and the Falsteins
were among the larger share-
holders in this concern at the
end of 1948. The market fears
that the business, which should
have a fair market for its pro-
ducts, is overcapitalised. A lot
will depend on the accounts
shortly to be issued. The
management appears to be com-
petent ; the main question is
earning-power in relation to
capital—and, to shareholders
who paid 10s, each for their
shares, earnings in relation to
the issue price. This is an in-
stance of the sharemarket having
gone sour after a very early dis-
appointment.
A promising new Sydney
issue on the market is Waugh
and Josephson, distributor of
Caterpillar and John Deere trac-
tors and earth-moving equip-
ment. Though dollars are in-
volved in most of the co.’s im-
ports, it has had a very brisk
turnover for several years, with
a high rate of profit-earning—
over the three years to June,
1948, they averaged 19.3 p.c. on
the basis of present capital, and
profits to June 30 last were above
average. Last sale of the ords.
was at 295. Issue price was 255.
Tractors have high priority
among imports from the dollar
area, and the co. has a large, un-
satisfied demand to look after
at present.
The class of stocks probably
least affected in the sharemarket
by the coal strike were coal
shares themselves. At 18s. 3d.
J. and A. Brown scrip compared
with a highest price of 20s. and a
lowest of 17s. this year; Hetton
at 11s. 3d. with a highest of 13s.
and a lowest of 10s.; Cale-
donian at 3s, 9d, with a previous
highest of 3s. Bd.; and Bellambi
at 7s. 9d. with Bs. 6d. As re-
gards coal shares, if this country
is ever to develop it will need
evergrowing supplies of coal,
and the long-term investor may
do well out of coal shares,
especially if bought at currently-
depressed prices. The reason for
the present steadiness in coal
shares is that allowance has long
ago been made for stoppages
like the present one. The share-
market for coal shares has been,
so to speak, inoculated against
strike effects. But much will de-
pend on how long the present
stoppage lasts.
A great number of industries
will inevitably show the effects
of the present strike in their
1949-50 accounts. Some will
suffer worse than others. Heavy
industries will take some time to
get their furnaces and foundries
going even when power and iron
and steel are available to them.
The building trade will be set
back for months. Coalmines
themselves, however, should re-
open fairly promptly, and the
textile industry should get off to
a comparatively early start.
These are very disconcerting
days for the sharemarket.
Nothing much is going right
at present. But if this coal
strike should represent the first
real conflict in the showdown
that has to come with Com-
munism, then genuine prosperity
may not be so far away for Aus-
tralia as it might seem. That the
world should now be facing any-
thing like a serious depression is
ridiculous except for the fact that
the Communists have been try-
ing to force a production depres-
sion on the Western world.
Federal Accounts
On the Treasury figures just
presented Mr. Chifley has bal-
anced the Budget—no more, no
less. But social-services tax was
£90.2 million and expenditure
£BO.B million, and the balance
in the fund increased by £9.9
million during the year. In ad-
dition £27 million, against £15.6
million in 1947-48, was spent out
of revenue on “capital works
and services.” Furthermore,
loan expenditure was credited
with £18.7 million from trust
accounts. Revenue, too, was
credited with £l7 million “sur-
plus balances of trust accounts.”
So precisely what the Budget
balance was, by any previous
standards of comparison, it is
impossible to calculate from the
Treasury figures.
All that is clear is that Can-
berra spending is still soaring
at a fast rate, and that taxation
levied from the people is being
spent lavishly in the Socialist
manner. Here are summarised
“ Meadows! You left the tap running !”
figures covering Government in-
come from taxes, business in-
come, etc.: —
Revenue.
1947-48. 1948-49.
£mil. £mil.
Customs .. .. 57.6 63.5
Excise 58.0 62.7
Sales Tax .. ~ 34.7 39.0
Income Tax.. .. 161.5 182.1
Social Services .. 71.4 90.3
Payroll Tax .. ~ 16.6 19.8
Land Tax .. .. 3.6 3.0
Estate Duty .. ~ 4.6 4.7
Entertainments .. 5.2 5.3
Gift Duty .. ~ 0.8 0.6
Gold Tax ....
414.0 471.0
Other revenue .. 9.7 *28.1
Business revenue . 32.6 34.9
Territories ~ ~ 0.7 0.7
T 457.0 534.7
beans
* _ 457.0 534.7
Includes £l7 million trust balances.
In spite of all “concessions”
so far made to taxpayers, in-
come and social-services taxes
together rose by £39.5 million
to £272.4 million last year.
Payroll tax, an indicator of em-
ployment (or gross-wages) level,
was £3.2 million higher at
£19.8 million. But post-office
and railway revenue was only
£2.3 million higher at £34.9 mil-
lion, against a rise of £13.6 mil-
lion (to £56.3 million) in the
relevant expenditure. Expendi-
ture, however, includes £12.5
million (up £4.3 million) of
capital expenditure.
Spending was higher under
every general heading:
Expenditure.
1947-48. 1948-49,
£mil. £mil.
“Defence” (1939-
45) and post-war 180.0 190.5
War, etc. (1914-18) 19.6 21.7.
Social security .. 88.0 110.0
Other 4.7 5.0
Miscellaneous ~ 6.9 9.3
Administrative 25.7 27.9
„ . 324.9 364.4
Business .. .. 42.7 56.3
New “works” .. 15.6 27.0
383.2 447.7
Territories .. .. 5.6 8.3
State tax refunds ’ 44.7 53.5
State grants .. .. 22.0 25.2
455.5 534.7
Actual social-security outgo, as
mentioned, was £BO.B million,
as against £68.6 million in the
preceding year. Old-age pen-
sions took £41.7 million (up
£5.3 million); child endowment
£24.3 million (up £4.8 million).
The States were handed back
£53.5 million in income tax,
against £44.7 million.
When it is considered that
the average pre-war Common-
wealth Budget involved an ex-
penditure of under £BO million,
the immense cost of Socialism
to Australia can be seen from
the foregoing tables.


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established ISIS
Head Offices 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
0. O, GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN C. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
“I think Fd like
a White Horse
better than anything ”
WHITE HORSE WHISKY
Equal to a fine liqueur. w
The
Union Bank
of Australia Limited
( Incorporated in England)
ROYAL NATIONAL SHOW
BRISBANE
1949
The Bank conducts an Agency at the
Show for the convenience of customers
and friends who are cordially invited to
make use of this facility.
The Agency is located on the corner of
the Ernest Baynes grandstand near the
grandstand and railway entrances.
OF
4?
ESTABLISHED 1837
Branches throughout Australia & New Zealand
Better for School Books
They stand the rough
and tumble. They're lighter
and easier to carry.
Ask first for
SCHOOL C ASES
m
iiA.
mm
m
a*
FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
Z :
Providing for your
dependents
Two points to bear in mind
H YOUR WILL. However simple your Estate
may be, have your Will drawn by a Solicitor —-
and have him keep it up-to-date.
■ YOUR EXECUTOR. Name Perpetual
Trustee Company Limited as your Sole Executor
or jointly with a relative or friend.
The Company has the experience and the
facilities to carry out your wishes as you intend
in the best interests of your dependents.
There is a booklet “Your Executor and
Trustee” that explains the services rendered by
the Company and its charges.
’Phone or write for a copy to-day you will find it
helpful .and informative.
PERPETUAL
Trustee Company Limited
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE
AGENT UNDER POWER OP
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES
& OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR,
ETC.
•
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS
UNDER ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £67,000,000 (the
average > Estate being less than
£ 10,000).
Directors:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIB, M.L.C.,
Chairman;
E. B. KNOX; ALLEN C. LEWIS;
Hon. J. P. ABBOTT, M.H.8.;
D. B. LYSAGHT;
SAMUEL HOKDEBN;
H. Y. DOUGLASS,
Managing Director.
A. 0. ARMYTAGB, Manager.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WAGGA WAGQA, TAMWORTH and ORANGE
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY.
Inflation Danger
In the hardest-hitting attack
yet made on Labor-Socialist in-
flationary financial policy in
Maoriland, Henry J. Kelliher,
managing-director of Dominion
Breweries, Ltd., and ex-director
of the Bank of New Zealand,
said early in July that money in
circulation at the end of January
reached the “prodigious figure”
of over £2Ol million, 300 p.c.
higher than pre-war. The lion’s
share of the increase was due
to newly-created bank credit,
£77 million put out by the Re-
serve Bank and £35 million by
the six trading banks. Volume
of goods increased over the
decade by only 10 p.c.
Wage-earners Were ’victimised
by this outpouring of millions
of money unsupported by goods,
which destroyed incentives and
made all appeals for increased
production sound hollow. Kel-
liher declared: “We will not
solve these problems until we
pursue a monetary policy in
which production and purchas-
ing-power move together, with
a stable price-level and equitable
standard of living.” He con-
demned present banking prac-
tice for making it impossible
for trading banks to grant ad-
vances or buy securities without
creating new money, and
branded as “preposterous” sug-
gestions that there was no
alternative to this unsound prac-
tice, “this ceaseless and senseless
inflation in order to provide in-
dustry with increased advances.”
With over £2OO million in
circulation, Maoriland had
ample funds for industry with-
out churning out more, and
there were normal channels
from which banks could draw
funds to lend. In the past
sound practice was for banks to
attract funds by encouraging
transfers from free to fixed de-
posits by offering adequate in-
terest, but today banks found it
more profitable to conjure up
new credit instead of paying in-
terest for fixed deposits, which
at £3B million were little higher
than 10 years ago, while ad-
vances had soared to more than
£BO million. The fixed-deposit
system—trading banks’ legiti-
mate source of lending funds —
had nearly ceased to function.
“So we have the astounding
spectacle of a colossal sum of
over £2OO million floating
round, and the banks so bereft
of funds for lending that over-
draft demands can be met only
b Y t P rnln S tbe handle, of the
printing-press, pursued Kel-
bber - The whole fantastic
P roce s s savors more of Alice in
Wonderland than anything
on ® expects to encounter in a
rational community. There is
something radically wrong with
mone Y system which expands
300 p.c. while the volume of
g°°ds and services increases by
than 10 p.c. Every addi-
tional million intensifies infla-
tion and is a tax on the people,
for it waters down money
already in existence, lowers the
money value of wages, forces
up prices and adds to an already
excessively high cost of living,
I fl spite of all the danger-signs
we are still pursuing this crazy
policy of day-to-day creation of
new money, of which workers,
pensioners, people with fixed m-
comes and all who cannot pass on
the tremendous rise in costs and
prices are the greatest victims,
F° r N.Z. as a whole there
was ever-prpsent danger of de-
flation, which was also an
ominous threat in other parts
of the world. It would be a
great tragedy if all the errors of
the past were blindly repeated
and N.Z. had to endure another,
possibly worse, depression than
it had yet known. One hope
was that the newly-appointed
Stabilisation Commission would,
at long last, have courage to
face the fact that it was impos-
sible to have stable money ond
stabilised prices and wages if
the money supply was allowed
to run wild. The first duty was
to put a statutory obligation on
the Reserve Bank, or other
monetary authority, to keep the
money supply in balance with
goods and services and stabi-
lise internal prices,
Serious trouble was brewing
all over the world. Why wait
for the storm to break? There
was still time to act before in-
flation reached breaking-point
and became runaway deflation,
The money problem was the
supreme problem of the hour,
In view of threatening signs and
the instability of the world the
apathy and lack of understand-
ing in many important quarters
were truly appalling. There had
never been a more urgent and
compelling call for decisive
action in the interests of future
welfare and wellbeing.
Korma Textiles
One of N.Z.’s recent additions
to its group of million-pound
cos., Korina Textiles (N.Z.),
Ltd., has found the going tough
in the past year (ended March).
Its big plant at Royal Oak,
Auckland, has taken longer to
build and equip than expected,
staff hasn’t been easy to re-
cruit and train in M.L.’s limited
and unsettled labor market, last
year’s 20 p.c. cut in exchange
compelled writing-down of new
plant bought at the old pound
level, and inelastic price-con-
trol hasn’t given much scope
for profit-making. The co. has
enough headaches, apart from
uncertainties in demand as busi-
ness turnovers in some directions
in N.Z, show a downtrend. It
chose the extreme course of
setting aside all but a mere £49
of £63,588 trading profit, in the
consolidated account for itself
and subsids., as special depreci-
ation, to save taxation. Earn-
ings were well down on the
previous term’s £93,163, when
only half as much capital was}
put up. Against doubled fixed
assets at £958,999 and mount-
ing stocks of raw materials and
finished goods, £720,771
(against £475,476), bank over-
drafts (secured) were swollen to
£443,838 (against £135,908) and
liabilities to trade creditors and
associate cos. to £337,955
(against £265,380). Capital was
lifted to seven figures by an
issue of 475,000 ords, in
November, 1948, with the power-
ful foster-parent, Felt and Tex-
tiles of Australia, taking a solid
block of 155,000 to add to sub-
stantial holdings acquired in the
merger a year earlier.
An order from John Bull for
2j million square feet of Maori-
land manufactured hardboard
and softboard, to reduce J.B.’s
dependence on dollar sources,
has extended the market horizon
for M.L.’s outsize forestry con-
cern, N.Z. Forest Products, Ltd.
Equal to a twelfth of the co.’s
annual output, the shipment will
give production a push along
that is needed as saturation point
is approached on the home
front, Trans-Tasman trade is
easily the best export outlet for
M.L. softwoods, and other pros-
pects are India, Africa, Palestine
and the Far East, Timber and
pulp for newsprint together are
raising M.L. hopes of soon cor-
recting the chronic unbalance in
business with the Common-
wealth. When Melbourne knight
Keith Murdoch was in N.Z. last
year he was struck by the big
task immediately ahead for
M.L. to cut and mill thousands
of acres of pines quickly coming
to maturity, on a 20-year cycle
of growth from planting to mill-
ing. For years the industry has
been deeply involved in costly
development of buildings and
plant, and there will be a heavy
drain on funds for some time
yet. The only major co. that has
paid divs. so far is Whakatane
Board Mills, Ltd., and the
70,000-odd shareholders in N.Z.
Forest Products —45,000 of them
in Australia —can’t see any re-
turns in sight, but when th£ long
uphill grind ends the co., with
others in commercial forestry in
Maoriland, is confident it will
take its place in the van of ex-
ports, alongside farming indus-
tries.
* * * *
Cautious warning against
further inflation in N.Z. is as
far as Maoriland’s State-owned
Reserve Bank dared go in its
latest annual report on M.L.
conditions. Monetary expan-
sion could stimulate employ-
ment and prosperity in a state
of under-employment, it ven-
tured, but couldn’t do so now.
Increased output was the only
course left if Maorilanders
wanted to improve their
standard of living. Many shrewd
independent observers go
further than this and say pro-
duction will have to be lifted
to hold today’s standard. Re-
serve Bank heads are against
swelling the already overflowing
stream of money, which is put-
ting such pressure on prices and
costs that business, saddled with
controls, is worried, but in the
background it’s the Govern-
ment, with socialistic ideas on
money, that has final say, and
the Government won’t see the
red light yet.


Milligan's coll
By M.E. VINCENT
Lambert Milligan’s grazing
paddocks lay to the west, bold and
_ roseate in the early-moming sun,
"high above the smoke haze of the
shadowed town. Within their bounds,
in an oasis of oats, the small stone cot-
tage was pressed like a drawing-pin into
the hill.
\X / ITHIN the cottage Marty’s grand-
** mother was beginning her Saturday
morning bustling.
“Now! No mooning about. After
I wash up I’m going down to Callaghan’s
—this Saturday-afternoon closing has me
beat —and don’t forget to remind me to
order kerosene—and you can get to and
cut the hedge before that high-faimin'
car-tooting father of yours comes tear-
ing in. He makes Saturdays the bane of
my life. Why 7 should have to put up
with his nonsense I don’t know”
She glanced quickly at the photo, of
Clara in the old-fashioned wooden
frame beside the yellow-faced grandfather
clock; Clara, her daughter, who had
died when Marty was born; and she
compressed her lips. “As if I haven’t
had enough to put up with from him.
He’d be better off looking after those
five pretty daughters of his and paying
less attention to you. We’d all be better
off then,” she finished tartly.
“Father says”
“Don’t you ‘father’ me. For eleven
years I’ve heard too much of what your
father says, without you repeating it. And
today, if I can get a word in edgeways.
I’m telling him he’ll have to stop stuffing
your head with nonsense and high-
falutin ideas. That’s his trouble all over
—too high-and-mighty. And who does
he think he is, anyway? Because he was
an Olympic Games athlete, and won the
V.C. and because he’s a Milligan. But
he’s no great credit to the Milligans,
either, with his whisky and his” She
noticed the boy’s bright eyes on her and
coughed. “Now you get on with that
work. You can’t leave this house till it’s
done!”
The boy left the room, whistling, and
before she went back to the kitchen the
old woman looked again at the picture
of her daughter ; Clara’s soft, pretty face
and piled-up fair hair and Clara’s liquid
dark eye; and wondered if things would
have been any better if Clara had lived.
“He always gets under my skin,” she
thopght, “but last Saturday he went the
limit,” Sitting on her snow-white table,
for one thing; making fun of his wife.
“Steer clear of good women born to
be martyred, son,” he had said. “They
soak up misery like a sponge, and then
just when you’re enjoying life they
squeeze it out drop by drop over your
defenceless head.”
“Your head was never defenceless,”
she had snapped. “And let me tell you
that any woman who bears five children
in five years deserves something better
than being pestered for a divorce.”
“Now, now, you old fire-eater, you
were as keen as mustard for me to make
an honest woman of Clara.”
“After eleven years she’d’ve bin worn
to a frazzle and still be waiting to be
churched.”
“Come on, son,” Lambert had said
then. “Before your granny has a fit.”
As usual he had walked out on the last
word; but this Saturday, she resolved,
she would get even.
She hung the dishcloth on the back-
verandah lattice and as she did so she
glanced at the steeply sloping hill.
There on the steaming crest stood a
group of sleek red-and-white Herefords
Lambert had bought during the long
drought for “next to nothing” and was
fattening to sell at a “wicked profit” in
the spring.
“Highway robber, that’s what he is,”
she muttered as she went into her bed-
room. She took her old beige hat, which
she delighted in wearing because Lambert
detested it (he called it “Your granny’s
hat, a la commode”), and crammed it on
to her head as she hurried down the
front steps.
All the leaves had left the trellised
grapevine and the row of young per-
simmon-trees, and there, across the roof-
filled valley of the big town, the flat
white of Lambert’s new home flashed
with a glacial glitter against the wind-
break of dark pines. This was Lam-
bert’s third house. The other-two had
been burnt down. “Impurely accident-
ally in the nick of time,” he had said,
watching her from the corners of his
bright black eyes.
The boy was steadily working at the
hedge.
“Now no cocking your eye down the
road every second minute or so,” she
said, opening the front-gate.
A S she stepped warily down the em-
•'* bankment ramp a car came swiftly
up the rise. In it were Lambert’s wife
and the five daughters, and on one side
was strapped a pile of suitcases. The
only one who looked out was the
youngest, twelve-year-old Alicia, and
she glanced up at her half-brother with
large, clear eyes, devoid of expression
or recognition.
The grandmother looked back at the
boy, but as usual his face was inscrutable.
She stumped off down the road, the dust
diffusing into a vapor of gold around her.
“Who do they think they are!” she
muttered to herself, and she heard Lam-
bert’s mocking voice say: “The Eller-
tons preserve their blueblood in high-
class refrigerators.”
Characteristically, she then thought:
“And who does he think he is! Mrs.
Lambert’s father is twice the man Lam-
bert is. I’ll tell him so this morning.
I’ll get one home on him. I’ll say; ‘At
least you can defrost a refrigerator, but
you can’t do much about a volcano.’ ”
'TURNING this over in her mind and
1 trying to improve on it, she came to
the corner shop. As she waited un-
observed to take her turn at the tiny
counter she heard the unctuous grocer
say;
“I wouldn’t mind betting it’ll be the
biggest funeral this town’s ever seen. He
was a bounder all right, but my oath
the town’s going to be flat without him.”
The customers agreed. One of them
said “The sales’ll be pretty flat without
him, 1 know that. He was a cracker-
jack auctioneer—the best this district’s
ever seen by a long chalk. I don’t think
he’s missed getting a big sale up and
down the Coast for over fifteen years—
of course bar the years he was in the
Army.”
The grandmother’s one agitated
thought was for the boy ; so she pushed
forward and said in her high voice
“What’s happened?”
“Mrs. Ingle! Haven’t you heard,
then?” The small grocer waggled his
head like an ant, his pencil-feelers weav-
ing above each ear.
Anxiety made her even more tart than
usual. “Would I ask if I knew! ”
Secure in his kingdom of soap, sugar,
potatoes, matches and tobacco the
grocer relished his deliberate spite.
“It looks as though you and Marty
will have to pull your belts in a bit,” he
said. “Lambert Milligan turned his
Riley over yesterday and killed himself
and the blonde barmaid from the Royal.”
Without a word she left the shop, and,
looking through the window, they could
see her beige hat bobbing away like a
cork on a swift and tumultuous current.
IT seemed to her that she took a very
1 long time to reach the top of the rise,
and then she was distressed to see Marty
talking to Nobby Clark. Their voices
came to her clearly.
“No footy this arvo? You’re kidding!”
“No. Dinkum. There’s a big funeral,
see. Town band. Cadets in uniform,
see. All footballers marching. At two,
it is.”
Nobby saw the grandmother, and, tak-
ing his foot off the back wheel of his
bike, began immediately to pedal strenu-
ously.
As she panted up the embankment, her
face crimson, the boy called in distress:
“What’s wrong? What’s happened?
Whose funeral is it?”
Without a word she hauled him down
from the steps and hustled him into, the
house. With much clattering she made a
drink of warm milk and brandy and
thrust it into his shaking hand.
“There,” she said, “get that into you.
Misery makes you cold, but a full
stomach makes you warm to bear it.”
\I/HEN he had drunk the milk she
told him what she had heard. He
did not speak. Tearless and motionless,
he stared at the floor.
At last she could bear the silence no
longer and started clashing utensils
about in the cupboard.
“I’m very sorry for you, Marty, but I
can’t pretend I’m sorry. He was a rum
customer, and I couldn’t stand a bar of
him. And no wonder. He only brought
your mother and me shame and hard-
ship, in spite of his free hand with
money. Easy come, easy go. That’s him
toaT.”
The ensuing silence was so complete
that to her the reverberations of her shrill
tones increased to a pandemonium, and
she was forced to take refuge in mumb-
ling.
“A nice thing. A nice thing for his wife
and daughters. Now I’m holding in
about him, but if you just sit there I
won’t be able to stand it. You must try
and do something. Exercise is good for
the soul. It’s no good to just sit and
think.”
After a few seconds she said loudly:
“There you are —it just proves what I’ve
been trying to tell your father for years.
Not a soul’s come near us. We’re neither
fish nor fowl nor good red-herring.
That’s why. Many’s the time I’ve told
your father we’d be best left to make our
own way. But no! He had to have his
selfish pleasure. Now here we are,
fallen between two stools.”
The boy said quietly “I suppose every-
one thought someone’d be sure to tell
us.”
“You mean nobody bothered to find
out.”
For several minutes the boy sat with-
out speaking or stirring, his face blank,
while the grandmother, mumbling all the
time, haphazardly shifted tins and packets
within the dark and commodious cup-
board.
Abruptly he asked; “Who’ll take me
to the funeral?”
Spinning around, she knocked over the
saucepan-stand, and with saucepans
clanging all about her, she faced him,
her old irascible self.
“So that’s what’s brewing! Never
heard the like. And who do you think
would take you? Eh? Remember your
mother was Mrs. Milligan’s maid and
your grandfather Ingle was a bullocky.”
U/ HEN Marty didn’t answer she
vv bounced about the room like a
ducky hen, her clothes billowed by her
furious activity, her arms akimbo. Then,
all of a sudden, her fury subsided. De-
jected and harassed, she stood motionless
by his chair, her once-ebullient skirts
now drooping slackly.
“Marty,” she said, “I don’t like say-
ing this, but you know as well as I do
that illegitimate children of toffy
families aren’t show-window displays.
You just remember what happened when
you went over to see your father when
he had that broken ankle.” There was
no answer, “You didn’t get within
cooee of him, did you? And she didn’t
tell him you’d called.”
As though sifting his probable thoughts,
she said “And don’t think you can go
traipsing off to Mr. Rex’s, because he
isn’t going to be too happy about his
brother, for one thing, and, for another,
Mrs. Rex hated your father like poison.
He’s a good, kind man, but Mrs. Rex
leads him by the nose.”
She studied the boy’s white, expression-
less face for a while.
“You can’t just sit there,” she said.
“We’ll have to find something for you
to do.” Suddenly her face brightened.
“Just the thing,” she said. She took some
soft rags and a tin from the cupboard.
“You get to and polish up those fancy
trophy cups of your father’s,” she said.
“That’s something you like. That’ll keep
you busy.”
He took the things from her and went
to his room. Looking into the dining-
room mirror, she saw him taking down
the cups from the china-rail. Sighing,
she went back to the kitchen.
“I had my work cut out when Cal
Thomas broke his father’s ankle, and he
was away only three weeks that time;
The Traveller.
Now is the high, the summer tide for
travel,
thousand ships their glittering catches
b ear>
But Europe, sprawled like Gulliver, is
careless
Of eager steps, of curious, peering
glances.
Of trains that spin their binding webs of
distance:
To travellers’ joys indifferent her ear.
Ah, light of step we go who do not reckon
On clandestine companions of the heart
That stow awa y in l u S§age we could
master , . , , „ , . .
Without the weight of Fear, wreath-tied
Remembrance
And Grief , that’s lame and always begs a
P > ,
These sta y f or one d( f onl y locked a P arU
Then , ,0 . ™ V>es »'«
• • ■ a ■ ; „
That far, clear vision rinsed in springs of
Which knew the embroidered fields, the
gilded rivers;
which saw the lion and the lamb together,
j} xe children walking hand in hand to
Heaven ;
And needed not a deeper thought employ.
Return to Innocence. Shunt back to
wharf side.
Sail from the harbor and put out to sea.
Cast off these stowaways upon an island —
But Memory nudges, ‘‘You forget your
* bargain;
You sold your soul to Wisdom and must
bear with
The burden of his lackey’s company."
So on we go across the fields of Europe,
The mountains rear in darkness on the
sky.
And storm and fury break in bellied
thunder.
Gulliver wakes; and Man, the Lilliputian,
Who sold his sword for compromise and
makeshift
Denies his guilt to Heaven, “It was not I."
England.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.


The Sphinx wasn’t in it. What’s it going
to be like now!”
A S she strung the beans she thought of
*'■ the boy’s face when his father
hobbled in on crutches after those three
weeks. She could see Lambert’s brown,
lean face, his bright, dark eyes.
“Well,” he had said, “and how’s Milli-
gan’s colt today? And how is his dis-
tinguished grand-dam? Any juicy mor-
sels of gossip today? Or has the town
been a haven of virtue since I’ve been
laid low?”
“They tell me,” she had snapped, “that
next time you referee a football match
Cal Thomas is going for your back.”
“Silence, old wasp. Now, son, what
morsels have you for my delectation?
Have you heard why it is a deadly sin
to win a waltzing competition? I thought
it was a miracle myself. Mary
Thomas might be a light woman, but her
feet are like your grandmother’s dump-
lings.” His voice was raised above the
grandmother’s shrill piping, “What has
been said about your inoffensive parent,
eh, son?”
“I can’t understand all the words. They
sound interesting, and I’ve written some
down, but I don’t know them.”
The next visit Lambert brought Grand-
father Milligan’s big dictionary. In it
he had written “To my son, Martin Milli-
gan.” He said “Get stuck into this and
you’ll never regret it.”
Sitting at the table shredding the beans
the sound of Lambert’s seductive voice
ran riot in the grandmother’s tired mind.
Irritably she pushed the beans to one
side. “Men!” she thought. “You’re not
happy with them, you’re not happy with-
out them. What’s a woman to do!”
She put on her hat and coat, and,
hurrying from the house, frantically
jogged the quarter of a mile to the tele-
phone-box. “I shoulda let Lambert put
the phone on, I suppose,” she thought
wearily. Then her shoulders straightened
and she sniffed. “Yes, and had him
pestering me day and night with a lot of
tomfoolery. No thank you.”
WHEN she returned she made some
cocoa and took a big mug of it to
the boy. He was no longer cleaning the
cups, but had his head bent over the big
Webster’s.
“Here,” she said, waving the cocoa
perilously.
“Fair go, Gran,” he said, drawing away.
But she forced him to take the mug.
“What are you looking at?” she de-
manded.
“Words.”
“About that good-for-nothing father of
yours, I suppose,” she said. “Now drink
that up. I haven’t ail day to wait.”
She took the small notebook that was
laid on the dictionary and looked at the
open pages. “Flamboyant, spectacular,
perverted, lewd, virile, persuasively
loquacious, unmitigated scoundrel, pre-
varicator, infamous, sadistic, adulterer,
profligate, contemptible seducer,” she
read, stumbling over most of the words.
“Highfalutin words for bad, I sup-
pose,” she snapped.
“They’re not good or bad,” said the
boy quietly. “It all depends who says
them and who hears them.”
“My eye and Betty Martin,” she
sniffed, shutting the book. “If you keep
on twisting things round like that you’ll
end up in Parliament like your Grand-
father Milligan. I bet he’s moving all
heaven to get Lambert in the pearly
gates. Drink that cocoa, I said, not
gargle it.” She stood over him while he
drank the cocoa. Then she said “Now
finish those cups and we’ll have an early
lunch. Then you can sit on the verandah
and watch the funeral as it goes past to
the cemetery. It’s the best we can do.
I’m real sorry. I’ve been to the corner
and rung up and I can’t get a taxi, and
Mr. Wilson’s in bed with his lumbago
again and Mr. Pepper isn’t back from
the P.P. conference. And no one else I
know well enough has a car. So finish
those cups and close that window for
heaven’s sake. You’re right in a draught
and I don’t want you with pleurisy
again.”
/ALKING back to the kitchen, she
* “ wished she had not said that, be-
cause she realised that the boy would go
over it all in his mind, especially those
two days his father Jiad been away at
the big northern sale. She remembered
Lambert’s return at four in the morning
and the boom of his resonant voice
through the still house. “Open this con-
founded door!”
“SSHH. Sshh,” in an angry hiss.
Then, “Making all that row. Waking him
up. That’s what. You’ve been away two
days and now you can’t wait a second.”
“Gabble, babble, old witch,” he had
said. “Of course he’s not asleep. Haven’t
you ever been in pain?' Awake? Waiting
for the dawn. Aren’t you, boy?”
“Yes, father.!’
“There now. Where’s a light for him
to look at? I know all about pain at
night.” The hall light flashed on.
“There,” he had said. “There’s light for
your pain, boy. I know what he wants
and he’s my colt, isn’t he?” “Don’t call
him that!” She had snapped, exasper-
ated. “It’s not nice.”
Milligan’s laughter had echoed through
the house.
ANGRILY she brushed tears away, and
went outside for kindling. It was then
she saw Rex Milligan, “diddling around”
(as she termed it) in a fever of indecision
at the back-gate. She did not tell the boy
about their short conversation until lunch-
time.
When she called the boy to lunch, he
stood unhappily in the doorway. “I
can’t possibly eat or. drink anything.
Gran.”
“All right. Go ahead and mooch. You
know what your father thought of
moochers. ‘Pain-probing bellyachers’.”
The boy didn’t budge.
“I’ll let you off with a small helping of
pudding,” she said, and immediately
served a huge helping. “Your father was-
taking that bleached blonde to catch the
express. She’d missed the service-car,”
she said, turning her back on him, but
obviously listening so that she would not
miss the sound of his slightest move.
When he came near the table, she hopped
behind him, and before he could escape,
scooped him into position with a chair.
“And why she missed the car we’ll never
know,” she could not prevent herself from
adding spitefully.
She waited until he started eating, then
she said “Mr. Rex was here for a split-
second. He was trying to make up his
mind to come in when I went out for
kindling. He said he was very sorry he
wasn’t able to get over before, but he’s
been run off his feet. He 11 be here some
time next week to talk to you. He didn’t
have time today. So he said.”
Marty immediately asked; “Did he
ask me to the funeral?”
The grandmother banged the teapot on
the table and all the crockery rattled.
“Now, if you start that again I’ll
scream,” she cried.
WHEN the washing and wiping-up
was done, Marty took the polishing
outfit to the back-steps and started to
clean his shoes, y
“Now what are you doing, may I ask?
What’s all this sprucing up in aid of?”
Marty said, firmly and gently, “I’m get-
ting dressed to go to the funeral. I’ll go
up to the church and someone’s sure to
offer me a lift.”
The grandmother gave him a furious
glance. Then she went away and came
back with his best suit, a piece of dark
ribbon and her work-basket.
“Is this black?” He didn’t know, but
he thought so.
“No matter,” she said, following him
to the bedroom. “If it looks black to us,
that’s all that matters. On it goes.”
As she stitched, she said “Well, if you
like to take the risk of having your nose
rubbed in the dirt, take it, and welcome.
But I can tell you now that the people
who would be likely to give you a lift will
have their cars overloaded, and the silver-
tails who could fit you in will pretend
they haven’t seen you, or don’t know you,
or that they think you’re all fixed up. I
haven’t lived in this town for forty years
with my eyes closed. Let me tell you
there’s a great many people who won’t
take the risk of spiking the Ellertons.
Not on your life, when they own half the
‘ town and carry half the cockies.”
“If it’s as bad as all that,” asked Marty
mildly, “why are they bothering to go tft
.the funeral? People only go to funerals
to pay respect.”
“Fiddlesticks,” said the grandmother
scornfully. “All this funeral-* fuSs is
squeezy sentiment. And don’t bother tell-
ing me ‘squeezy’ isn’t the word. If it’s
good enough for me it’s good enough for
you. And don’t go getting any wrong
ideas about your father just because
they’re silly enough to give him a slap-
bang funeral. Your grandfather was ten
times the man, and there were only three
cars at his funeral. It seems to me the
bigger rogue you are the more fuss people
make.”
She handed the boy his coat. When he
had put it on, she walked round him,
brushing him down so fiercely that he
tottered several times.
“I only say these things,” she com-
mented harshly, “so you won’t go getting
disappointed when those boon com-
panions of your father’s look the other
way now instead of ‘Martying’ you. You
just remember you haven’t been asked to
any of their kids’ fancy parties.”
“I’m not hankering to go to parties,”
said Marty, without rancor. “All I want
is to get to —to go” He turned away
and adjusted his tie before he spoke
again. Then he said in his normal tones:
“Don’t worry, Gran —someone’s sure to
have a bit of commonsense.”
SHE went with him along the spur of
the hill to the southern boundary, be-
cause she said if she were not there to
hold up the barbed-wire he would snag
his coat, sure as eggs. The strands were
so taut that although she pressed her foot
down firmly on one and tugged furiously
at the upper one, all her exertion made
such little difference that it was not per-
ceptible, and Marty at last climbed up
the wires and vaulted over, as he had
probably intended to do all the time.
She was still making a fuss about the
action when he ran down the bank and
jumped the last few feet to the road.
He was stooped, brushing the chaff of
the stubble-field from his socks, when the
black mourning-coach appeared at the
bend, and the grandmother saw Rex Mil-
ligan, his son and son-in-law startled from
their sombre mummification.
No movement was made to halt the
car which droned on up the hill towards
the church.
She became very agitated. “Come back,
Marty,” she called, leaning over the fence.
He shook his head. Looking at his dour,
set face, anger warmed her trembling,
chilled body. “You’re getting the dead
spit of your grandfather Milligan,” she
called, “and he was as mad as a bull-
ant, and as stubborn as a mule.”
“Goodbye, Gran,” was all he said as
he started off up the hill.
WITH her starched white apron flung
up from her waist to form a hood
over her head, and her hand shading her
eyes, she watched the stocky, stalwart
figure. Beyond him she saw, almost sub-
consciously, the network of roads travers-
ing the verdant river lands. On all of
these came hurrying hundreds of cars,
shining and dark, like electrified beetles.
Notwithstanding her perplexed and appre-
hensive anxiety about the boy, a bitterness
was freshened, and she thought; “Only a
handful at her funeral.”
She recalled her complete attention to
the boy, who was walking steadily along
the side of the road, “getting his long
socks full of grass-seeds,” and “not caring
a brass-farthing” about all the cars that
were passing him.
“Most of them packed,” she thought,
“but some of them coulda squeezed him
in. Oh, God, please make someone give
him a lift.”
In her concentration she stood so tense
and still that the timid quail stirred
stealthily in the susurrant.stubble, and the
field-mice snuffled with twitching noses at
the drifts of shellac-bright chaff.
By this time the boy had reached the
crest of the hill, and she saw him plainly,
sharply outlined like a black puppet
against a soft blue radiance and framed
between the dark shoulders of the cut-
ting. It was at this moment, when she was
preparing herself to relinquish her
vigilance, that Doctor Dill’s big car pulled
to a standstill beside him. She saw the boy
turn, the door open, shut; the car move
slowly, so that for a moment it seemed
to balance on the horizon-line before it
slid from view.
THE road was now empty, and looking
at it the woman felt, for the first time,
a depthless and terrifying void within her-
self. She found no savor in her forced
thought of: “Old goat, worrying my
soul-case out about a damn’ ‘I-own-the-
earth’ Milligan.” After the prolonged and
painful anxiety there came neither relief
nor rejoicing: Even the rejuvenating
force of her ready anger was stilled, and
bereft of her amazing vitality, she
appeared withered and brittle, cosseted in
the white linen apron like an ancient crust
in a coned napkin. His firm face had
looked like his father’s—nothing there of
her pretty soft Clara—Milligan’s colt, aj£
right.
VARIOUS VERSE
Wet Summer: Botanic Cardens.
Under the low dark sky and the sodden
leaves
Poor Summer bared her shoulder with
coy grace.
Her marble flesh streaked with mortality,
Her sheaf of wheat lay mildewed on her
arm,
Her eyes stared vacant from her tear-
stained face
On paths empty at noon, on glooms be-
neath
Great fig-trees, where the drop of rotting
fruit
Broke the warm, damp hush, on unbe-
lievable green
Of wet grass still unfaded by the sun
In this strange season. Once we laughed
to see
That foolish white thing named for the
brazen queen
Whose sword we knew, the fierce and
splendid one.
But tonight, alone with the steady sound
of rain,
I do not smile, seeing her image there
On the haunted edge of sleep—the black-
ening marble.
The blind and weeping eyes, the ruined
grain —
Seeing this season of the world’s despair.
N.S.W.
NAN MCDONALD.
The Dance.
Waking in childhood, with grey shadows
making
A last defence against the triumphant
light
Or giving up, to crouch trembling in
corners,
I have seen the atom-dance of black and
white
Speckling the walls and ceiling with a
strange
Inevitable motion, a tingling sense
Of utter impermanence.
Knowing nothing of atoms or the glowing
Dances of distant suns, I had the feeling
—Lying alone and small in the white
' bed —
Of a half-dissolved and imponderable
ceiling.
One that my hand could penetrate, like a
fluid.
With the definite edges softened by the
dawn’s
Trembling half-light, I saw and felt the
void
That stretches round us all, and is within
us.
The terrible gulf that yawns
Between the whirling galaxies is spread
Equally through the formless forms we
know —
The walls, the floor, the bed.
Momentary patterns that melt like
summer snow,
Our crystal bodies have the same unreal
Stability, and are no more fixed in form
Than the spinning propeller is a solid
wheel;
Only the dance, the dance is real.
s.A.
NANCY CATO.
Bride Ship.
Only we walk, again, the harbor shore
For one more glimpse of a ship like a
wedding cake,
Rising out of the waters, and sure to make
Lips slaver, but from the thought it would
berth once more.
A bride ship, packed like a galley, full
of wives;
Laughter in place of curses, and bosoms
heaving
Not from the lash of whips, but make-
believing
That princes were waiting ashore to
ransom lives
From hell-cold England. Birkenhead and
space,
Such places now forgotten; and, instead,
Matchless, the white illusion of a feather
bed
Safe from furious fathers, and a friendly
face,
Like the sun’s known only this winter,
rooming
Together in this peacock weather —the
wonder
Of all this distance packed in a blow like
thunder.
At the sight of the wharf and an end of
a dream looming.
How went the song? The brothel’s
frenzy in this!
—And plenty of husbands willing; a
waiting-list
For would-be wives to ponder, let alone
resist
The age-long ache of the voyage for a
kiss.
No ; it was not that matter of relations
Who thought this other would prove the
better catch.
Difficult, then, to dissemble, shrink down
, the hatch
And stow away the heart, immune to
passions.
The blood flowed swift to rescue the
hardening heart;
And, the cold winters over, lust came to
obscure
Ghosts of that other living, too frail to
endure
In a tearful dream, to make here a bolder
start.
Better the blood boiled over and none
were disgraced,
Except that the flesh was punished ! And
so they danced
Under the dazzling sun; and nobody
glanced
At the ship like a wedding cake, so white,
so chaste.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.


m
»/; v.-.Vjg
l;U
//'V
lt Oy 0
w '" s op
*• • the fjm.M. , *°W 0 c
1 75 7; c, Sf *5O
Vhe AT n. ye °
op
O N D c
i'A
I 7 5 7:
The ' ' Iv E At W
i * le year m c T p i „
d °Us od(1 Clt Ve tri Umh , , PL AS S
A T
P L AS s
•day.
LUMLEY’S OF LLOYD'S OFFER A
FREE INSURANCE ADVISORY SERVICE
As insurance brokers Lumley’s are in the position, not
only to give you complete advice, but also to call upon
the specialised policies of any number of underwriting
organisations, including Lloyd’s of London, Whatever
your insurance need, make sure your policy has the best
possible coverage and most reasonable rates by consult-
ing lumley’s free advisory service —in all States of
the Commonwealth.
EDWARD LUMLEY
&. SONS PTY. LTD,
263 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY ; 33 WATT ST., NEWCASTLE
’Phone: BW 2131 ’Phone: B 1464
And all other States. e1.24.w
d
000
jn<’
o** s
iO lt
Cow
uf
for
r it e
w
S ■■ -
What a pair to
haveandtohold!
A famous Swan
pen, matched by a
Fyne-Poynt Pencil,
both mgde with the
precision of a fine watch.
Obviously, the perfect gift
that will keep gratitude
warm for a lifetime!
Presentation sets in black and
colours at 70/-, 82/6 and 92/6.
At all jewellers, stationers and stores.
SWAN PEN
with Pencil
MABIE TODD & CO. (AUST.) PTY. LTD., 255 a GEORGE ST. f SYDNEY
THE SERVICE MAN
Woodlawn Wins Again.
For the third time in succes-
sion, St. John’s College, Wood-
lawn, near Lismore, a Marist
Brothers college founded in
1931, has won the Bulletin
trophy for rifle-shooting at prac-
tices completed in the cadet
annual camps under the super-
vision of; Eastern Command
Headquarters.
As Lieutenant-General Berry-
man, G.O.C. of Eastern Com-
mand, points out in his report,
the shoot has had something to
do with the improvement in
cadet shooting during the past
three years. The results of each
competition, in fact, though they
show fewer entries —70 in 1947,
51 last year and 49 this —in the
final year than in the first, show
a considerable general improve-
ment in the leading teams, as
proved by the following figures:
1947. 1948. 1949.
St. John’s, Wood-
lawn 938 1056 1139
The Scots’ College 886 951 1046
The King’s School 882 966 944
Sydney High School 862 531 642
Sydney C. of E.
Grammar .. •.. 846 1003 1067
Thus, even schools which have
fallen back a little in their plac-
ing have shown an improvement
over 1947 figures.
In 1947 no school hit the 1000
mark in the score ; in 1949 there
were four schools which did
better, against two —St. John’s
and Shore —in the previous year.
Whereas a score of 938 gained
first place in *1947, it was only
good enough for fifth place in
1949.
Moreover, the rearrangements
show a strong development of
the competitive spirit and prove
that tho competition has justi-
fied itself.
The basic competition is for
a team of ten firers on the basis
of 1250 points, ties to go to the
team obtaining the highest score
on Practice No. 4 (controlled
application).
The detailed results were as
follow:
I—St.1 —St. John’s College, Woodlawn,
1139; 2 —Sydney Church of England
Grammar School, 1067; 3—The
Scots’ College, 1046; 4 —North Syd-
ney High School, 1010; s—The5 —The
King’s School, 944; 6 —St. Joseph’s
College, 922; 7 —Coffs Harbor High
School, 866; B—Lismore High
School, 859; 9 —Newcastle Boys’
High School, 831; 10—Forbes High
School, 803 ; 11 —Marist Brothers,
Parramatta, 797; 12—De La Salle
College, Armidale, 781; 13 —C.8.C.,
Rose Bay, 768; 14 —C.8.C., Waver-
ley, 723 ; 15—St. Aloysius’ College,
712; 16—Barker College, 707; 17—
Yanco Agricultural High School, 699 ;
Casino High School, 699 ; 18 —Marist
Brothers, Randwick, 698; 19—Quir-
indi Inter. High School, 677; 20 —
Canterbury High School, 675; 21 —
Maitland High School, 670; 22
Taree High School, 646; 23—Kemp-
sey High School, 643; 24—Sydney
High School, 642; 25 —North Sydney
Tech. High, 637; 26 —St. Ignatius
College, 633 ; 27—Singleton High
School, 623; 28 —St. Patrick’s Col-
lege, Goulburn, 613 ; 29 —Gosford
High School, 612; 30 —Canberra
High School, 610; 31 —Armidale
High School, 606; 32 —Wyong Cen-
tral Rural School, 604; Gosford
High School, 604; 33 —Wollongong
Tech. School, 593; 34—Ballina High
School, 592; 35 —Nowra High
School, 570; 36 —St. Patrick’s Tech.,
Goulburn, 567 ; 37—Homebush High
School, 562; 38 —Marist Bros., Dar-
linghurst, 559; 39—Gilgandra High
School, 550; 40—Crows Nest Cen-
tral Tech. School, 547; 41 —Hornsby
Tech. School, 534; 42 —Young High
School, 496; 43 —Westmead High
School, 490; 44—C.8.C., Young,
478 ; 45—Glen Innes High School,
390; 46—Griffith High School, 368;
47—Leeton High School, 280.
Maoriland's Vote on
Compulsion.
“Ek Dum”; Maoriland’s
referendum on compulsory
military training is to be taken
on Wednesday, August 3, Sup-
plementary rolls closed on July
11. There will be no Maori
roll. Maoris can vote, how-
ever, at any recognised booth
“You're getting hot , Sir—come a little to starboard .”
according to their usual manner.
The essence of the scheme
was given out by the Prime
Minister, Mr. Peter Fraser, on
July 1.
On becoming 18 years of age
boys will register with the
Labor Department, expressing
a preference for the service
which they would like to
join. They will undergo medi-
cal examination and have the
right, at a proper stage, to ap-
peal against being inducted
into the services. Posting would
be made to suit personal prefer-
ences as far as possible.
Their medical fitness having
been decided, along with their
suitability for a particular arm,
a notice will be issued to the
potential trainee calling him up
for 14 weeks’ continuous service
in the year following that in
which he has reached the
registration age.
The Army will have two
camps in the year, if the scheme
goes through, one beginning in
January and the other in May,
the second having been dated to
suit the convenience of farming
and other primary industries and
seasonal work in general:
Air and Navy recruits will be
organised a different way to
spread the intake over three
periods and so minimise the
effect on the technical indus-
tries.
*
14 Weeks’ Training
After 14 weeks’ training the
trainee will have posting to a
territorial force in which he will
serve 14 days a year in camp for
three years, with six week-end
camps and equipment parades.
The scheme is expected to
produce 28,000 men for the
Army, and, generally speaking, it
has been approved by the forces
and by the returned soldiers’
body, especially that part which
refers to the specialised training
of the Air Force and Navy,
whose standards, especially on
engine technique and artisan-
ship, become higher every year
with the addition of new and
more complex machinery and
propulsion units.
Mr. Fraser is leading the
campaign with vigor and with
an eloquence and fire unusual
to him, and one of his speeches
deserves to be enshrined for the
instruction and encouragement
of the weaker vessels of Can-
berra who are more frightened
of a few union bosses than they
are of any external enemy. He
said (as reported in the N.Z.
“Dominion”):
“We are a small country, but our
example has been and can be of
priceless value to the-democracies of
the world facing desperate danger.
I know and feel that I can expect
all of you on August 3 to give a
strong and clear answer to this appeal
for the defence of our people, our
country, our Commonwealth and
world-wide democracy and freedom.”
Enthusiastic and united approval
would set the seal of the success of
the training scheme through which
New Zealand would make its contri-
bution toward making freedom
secure. It would also confound those
who both without and within New
Zealand would like New Zealand to
be weak and vulnerable.
“Outpouring of Hate”
“The incessant outpouring of hate
and misrepresentation and falsehood
from the mouthpieces of Communist
propaganda today, their unrelenting
attacks on every aspect of Western
civilisation, at every democratic na-
tion, at every measure that will make
them strong and secure; these are
not idle words but evidence of enmity
against which we would be foolish
to close our eyes.
“I wish to make it plain that
neither our mother country, nor New
Zealand, nor any nation of the
British Commonwealth, nor -any of
the 'democratic nations has any inten-
tion of aggression against Russia.
They all endorse the recently ex-
pressed wish of the British Foreign
Secretary to the effect that if Western
and Eastern European nations cannot
live in harmony, agreement and unity,
they should at least agree to live and
let live.
“The menace has come right here
into our own country. Who are the
people in New Zealand who are most
active in trying to keep New Zealand
weak and vulnerable? Who today
are the most vociferous against the
scheme for military training? Who
else but the Communist party and
their tools, witting or unwitting. They
are mostly those, in fact, who are
always forward in creating disturb-
ances in our industrial life.
“Some of these persons are opposed
to any form of defence —voluntary
as well. They would not lift a finger
to assist voluntary recruitment. For
some time past they have been work-
ing up a campaign against compul-
sory military training in New Zea-
land. Hie Communists are the very
heart and core of the anti-defence
movement in this country. You will
no doubt see more of that propa-
ganda in one guise or another. Watch
your letter-boxes for their propa-
ganda. See who leads the attack.”
New Zealand also must be mindful
of her obligations under the charter
of the United Nations. She could
meet these obligations only if she
was prepared, only if she trained her
young men and made plans for the
equipment and moving of her forces.
New Zealand’s Interests
New Zealand’s interests could be
clearly recognised; The integrity of
New Zealand and the integrity of the
British Commonwealth unity in com-
mon purpose with other freedom-
loving countries to resist any aggres-
sion.
The proposals provided for the
registration of youths at the age of
18, training to commence at the first
camp after they reached that age. In
the event of war 21 would be the. age
for men going overseas, if the occa-
sion ever unfortunately arose. The
young men who everyone agreed would
have to go overseas would have had
basic training and be ready for fur-
ther training before facing the enemy.
This would mean fewer casualties.
“I affirm to you with the firmest
conviction that our nation is not
justified in taking risks, in being irres-
ponsible about its future. We have
no right to be a nation if we are
nor willing to defend ourselves or
if we are reluctant to take steps neces-
sary to make our people capable of
defence.”
Mao Shows His Hand.
“Ek Dum”: The trusting
hopes of editors, maintained for
years, that Chinese Communism
would turn out to be a different
kind of Communism from Mos-
cow’s has been exploded by
statements issued in Shanghai
last week by the Communist
authorities.
The first emanates from Mao,
the Communist leader, who
sternly announced that there was
no room for the traditional
“middle way” in China and that
that country had become “part
of the anti-imperialist front led
by the Soviet Union.” He said
that it was “childish” to believe
that China could need help from
Britain or the United States, and
that even if those countries were
willing to trade- with China it
would be only because they
were actuated by selfish motives
to make money and to relieve
their own ecpnomic distress.
He declared that the Govern-
ment proposed to recognise four
classes —workers, farmers and
small capitalists, and “liberal
capitalists” owning national en-
terprises.
He made it clear, speak-
ing Moscow jargon, that he


No Investor Can Afford
To Be Without It
ECONOMIC REVIEWS
INVESTMENT ANALYSES
MINING NOTES
Single Copies . . . • • • 2/
Yearly Subscription n • • 22/6
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George-street, Sydney, and all States.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— IIf Divorce.
TO JOHN BADE late of Sydney.—TAKE
NOTICE that DORIS BADE has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2181 of 1949
on the ground of frequent convictions for
crime and habitually leaving without
means of support If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 10th day of October 1949
and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from E. G. SAYEQH, Solicitor,
133 Pitt Street, Sydney.— (l.s.) J.
DOUQHAN, Acting Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO VERONICA MAY SMITH formerly of
57 Mitchell Avenue Kurri Kurri. —TAKE
NOTICE that JAMES JOHN SMITH has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1056 of
1949 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce Reg-
istry Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the 10th day of October 1949 and
obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from WOODGATE & CLEAVES,
Solicitors, 97 Vincent Street, Cessnock.
—(l.s.) J. DOUGHAN, Acting Registrar
in Divorce.
LOWNDES
RUM
Renowned
throughout the Empire
Agents:
HARBOTTLE BROWN & CO.
PTY., LTD.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
proposed to throw out of China
“imperialist forces and their
Kuomintang running-dogs, big
landowners and bureaucratic
capitalists” and that his Govern-
ment proposed to become part
of the “United Internationalist
“An could I have some of that light labor, yeronner, like the Commas are getting ?”
Front linked with the Soviet
Union and all the people’s de-
mocracies and proletarian classes
and masses throughout the
world.”
In other words, he has joined
the cold war, is pledged to throw
the British and Americans out
of their footholds in Far Eastern
trade, including Japan, and has
committed himself to the back-
ing of the Asiatic revolutions of
Malaya, Burma and elsewhere.
Following his statement an-
other rescript was issued by his
Government which offers Japan
an early peace on the basis of
the Potsdam agreement, suggests
a joint Japanese-Chinese front to
“oppose occupation of Japan by
American armed forces,” en-
dorses support of Russia
even to the extent of establishing
“joint defence of China and Far
Eastern Russia against all ag-
gressors” and the “withdrawal
of all imperialist and aggressive
forces from China.”
This important pair of utter-
ances has almost entirely escaped
the attention of the Australian
Press. Yet it is one of the most
vital issued for many a year in
the Far Eastern zone.
It means, obviously, a declara-
tion of war on British-American
policy, not merely in theoretical
but in practical artd immediate
terms. It means that North
China has virtually become a
province of the U.S.S.R. and
that it has the full practical sup-
port of the U.S.S.R., not, as
formerly, clandestinely, but
openly and belligerently, a £act
which is confirmed by the tone
of Moscow’s own rescripts.
An open struggle for Japan
must now begin, the first signs
of which are obvious in the
sudden upsurge of Japanese
Communist activity synchronis-
ing with the Chinese announce-
ment and the release of num-
bers of Japanese prisoners of
war whom the Russians have
been holding illegally and train-
ing in their own technique in
defiance of all treaties and agree-
ments.
The only bright spot in the
situation is that Mao does not
yet control China, though the
open admission of the Soviet
Union’s interest seems to make
it more likely that he will con-
trol it presently.
The Chinese Nationalists are
still in possession of Formosa,
from which they will take some
rooting out if they have any
resources, and of the south,
much of which is not so easy to
handle as the north.
Whatever happens, however,
there is a fine headache for Dr.
Evatt in what is happening.
China is “a great Power”—its
inclusion in that category was
one of the biggest farces ever
perpetrated in international poli-
tics —and, as a great Power,
Russia and all its satellites will
insist that China continue to be
so treated.
Russia will have an extra veto
at its disposal and an extra
mouthpiece, besides an ally in
the cold war against General
Mac Arthur, now one of Mos-
cow’s warmest antipathies.
Somebody should send Dr.
Evatt an extra bottle of aspirins.
He will need them before his
year of office as president of
U.N.O. is out—that is, if there
is still a U.N.O. in 1950.
Seesaw in Berlin.
“Ek Dum”: The Russians in
Berlin have been carrying out a
new policy which resembles the
kind of tactics in use in union
policy in Australia.
It is a species of “go-slow”
which began to operate imper-
ceptibly after the blockade was
, which continued
western entrances to
H k d ith
Germany were diockc
lines ot lorries mites long, wim
the Russians c earing on y
vehicle every 15 minutes, me
technique was all the more dia-
bolic because most of the lorries
were loaded with perishable
food.
The restrictions were a de-
liberate violation of the New
York and Paris agreements for
lifting the blockade, and
brought immediate protests
from the other Allied Powers
which bore sudden fruit on
July 14, when quite' unex-
pectedly the Russians called off
their nevy blockade.
Last week the Allied com-
mandants representing the Wes-
tern Powers met to consider,
apart from the blockade, other
manoeuvres by the Russian
command, which still appears to
be doing everything possible to
develop confusion in Germany.
The Soviet authorities are ad-
vocating the return of the old
Kommandatura of the four
governing Powers in Berlin,
with, of course, the use of the
veto which made Russia master
of the situation. Linked with
this they are demanding the abo-
lition of the elected Magistral
and have been showing a
growing tendency to assume the
right to speak for the city as a
whole, disregarding the claims
of the governing Powers and the
council.
The Magistral, which has been
in a state of virtual blockade,
accompanied by untiring threat
and persecution for nearly a
year, now appears to have be-
come moribund and almost
without initiative, which en-
ables the Russians to lend color
to their case.
Meanwhile the development
of the constitutional settlement
of Western Germany as an in-
dependent zone continues. The
first Western German Parlia-
ment is to meet at Bonn on the
Rhine, and it will be left to the
new body to decide whether the
Government will be seated
there.
It seems likely that it will be.
Security reasons seem to dic-
tate that the new capital shall
be as far from the Russian zone
as possible.
Following an accident to
General Sir Neil Ritchie, well
known to Australians in North
Africa as Eighth Army Com-
mander at Alamein, and in the
drive across Northern France (in
command of XII Corps), Lieut-
General Sir John Harding will
take over command of British
Far Eastern forces at Singapore
on August !, instead of in Feb-
ruary, 1950, as had been antici-
pated. General Harding at
present is Commander-in-Chief
the Southern Area in the United
Kingdom. General Ritchie will
go to Washington as Com-
mander, British Army Staff and
Military Member of the Joint
Services Commission, in the
spring of next year. General
Harding is one of the younger
senior commanders of the,
British Army. He is 52, and was
C.G.S. to Field-Marshal Lord
Alexander in 1944-45, afterwards
commanding XIII Corps.
* * * *
Sections of India under the
supine rule of the new Govern-
ment appear to be slipping into
darkness and chaos. Calcutta,
huge, foetid, corrupt and con-
gested, is already almost out of
control to such an extent that
Pandit Nehru hastened thither
during the week to see what
could be done about the Com-
munist terrorism which has burst
out of the poorer quarters to
create disruption and, if possible,
rebellion. He told the people
to “remain calm and face the
Communist threat squarely.”
And then somebody threw a
bomb at him and somebody else
fired three times at a policeman.
In fact, all the things are happen-
ing to the Nehrus which were to
cease when the tyrannous British
were removed and India became
enlightened, free, democratic
and entirely native.


(i
C#f
VC
INSULATE
your home
AGAINST EXCESSIVE HEAT OR COLD
WHEN YOU BUILD WITH
8.1. SLACWOOL
VX/ ISE home planners
» » everywhere are
specifying B. I, SLAC-
WOOL Insulation because
they not only get better
results, but they save
money too.
With B. I. Slagwool Insulation
you lower the temperature of
your home as much as 15° in
hot weather , . . and you will
enjoy warmer, healthier winters
tool
El. granulated
SLAGWOOI
mm
W
8.1
SLA
)s(5 # .
imiiumon
’Phones: Sydney M 3038, Melbourne MU 3506,
Brisbane B 3604, Adelaide C 7257, Perth
BIC-15
Call, write or
phone for par-
ticulars of B. I,
Slagwool Insu-
lation before
you buildt
nr across the pacific
....
• »•
SLEEP ON LAND BY NIGHT!
TRAVEL BY AIR IN THE DAY!
A NEW IDEA IN AIR
SERVICE AND COMFORT!
When you fly Canadian Pacific to {
Canada—you have the extra com - |
fort of sleeping on land each night \
—at colourful Fiji and romantic j;
Honolulu with hotel room and \
meals at no extra cost to you ! \
Through transportation may be
purchased in Australian currency.
ĵ
j
1.3
m
r-1
HOURS OF COMFORT JN
THE AIRI
Full-length-reclining ‘Loungaire’
chairs. Courteous, efficient per-
sonnel. Superh service. Wonder-
ful meals. 4-engine pressurised
cabin liners. You fly relaxed—
arrive refreshed —when you fly
Canadian Pacific style.
For further details apply Canadian
Pacific Railway Company, or Union
Steam Ship Co. (General Agents'),
217 George Street, Sydney, find
59 William Street, Melbourne, or
any authorised Tourist Agency.
QaHadlm9a£isc
SmAIRSStLINES
“THE WINGS OF THE WORLD’S GREATEST TRAVEL SYSTEM”
Canadian Pacific Air Lines Limited—lncorporated in Canada
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
Indian View of “White Australia.”
How “White Australia” strikes
one particular Asian view may
be gathered from the following
article by Shakuntala Paran-
jpye in the “Times of India”
(because of its interest in so
plainly presenting that view it is
given in its entirety, save for
minor deletion of some purely
geographical references):
“The population of Australia
is less than 8,000,000. To get
an idea of her size, if the India
of today were superimposed on
Australia, she would cover only
half of that Island Continent
“Australia can increase her
numbers only by importing them
from abroad, as her birthrate is
very low. She is very proud of
her high standard of living, which
often strikes me as being a high
standard of dying-out. In this
land of plenty, the human com-
modity is the hardest to grow.
Domestic life is so strenuous that
a family when faced with the
choice of a car or a baby is likely
to choose the car. That, I am
afraid, is the fate of all material
civilisations. Comfort gets the
priority. If one leaves out the
few thousand of natives living in
abject misery, almost all the
present inhabitants of Australia
are white. And thus they want
to remain. Hence the White
Australia policy.
“Every barrier in this world is
an expression of fear. The White
Australia policy is one such
barrier. Australians are mortally
afraid of being swamped by the
teeming millions of Asia. Dur-
ing the last war she escaped
from such a fate by the skin of
her teeth. Had the Japanese
once obtained a foothold in Aus-
tralia, it would have been impos-
sible to push them out with her
limited numbers.
“The White Australia policy
has one more objective. It
strives to maintain the high
economic Standards of the
country against cheap Asiatic
labor. During the gold rush of
the last century, thousands of
Chinese poured into Australia,
and the high standard of Aus-
tralia’s industrial life was in
grave danger of being lowered
by cheap Chinese labor. The
Australian worker has secured a
high wage, short hours of work,
and a considerable amount of
social security. It is but natural
that he should want to preserve
these hard-earned privileges. '
“There is practically no color
prejudice in Australia against
the Chinese or the Indians who
settled there before the advent
of the White Australia policy.
They are recognised as full Aus-
tralian citizens. The firm stand
taken by the Australian Govern-
ment against Dutch Imperialism
is most creditable, but long be-
fore any Government policy was
formulated, the workers spon-
taneously stood up for Indonesia
against Dutch aggression. Short
of being Communists, they will
back the rights of all workers of
the world. By reserving Aus-
tralia for the whites they are only
attempting to guard their own
high standards of living. The
White Australia policy is an
economic policy, and like the
Monroe Doctrine could have
been more happily baptised.
“At this stage it would be well
to note that even though all poli-
tical parties in Australia are
officially committed to the White
Australia policy practically since
the birth of the Federation,
the Commonwealth Government
have deliberately refrained from
passing any immigration legisla-
tion based on color discrimina-
tion. Nevertheless, it con-
trives to achieve the same result
by instituting an education test
by law, requiring the prospective
immigrants to write 50 words in
‘any prescribed language.’ Thus
the test gives ample scope to dis-
qualify whomsoever the
authorities consider to be an un-
desirable immigrant, by prescrib-
ing a language of which he is
known to be ignorant.
“Such is the psychology ot the
White Australian. The non-
white world at large, however, is
not going to be bothered to try
and understand the real psycho-
logy underlying the White Aus-
tralia policy. The policy is sure
to be interpreted literally. And
its wording is insulting. It flaunts
the superiority of the white races
as blatantly as Hitler trumpeted
his Herrenvolk theory. Such an
attitude can only create bad
blood, particularly when the
Federal Minister for Immigra-
tion keeps on adding insult to
injury by refusing to allow the
lawful spouses of Australian
men or women to land in Aus-
tralia, even on a temporary visit,
because they happen to be non-
white. Fortunately, the Supreme
[High] Court has given a verdict
against one such decision, and
many organisations in Australia
have publicly condemned this
particular action of the Federal
Minister, who now threatens to
get the law changed so as to leave
no loopholes for any interference
by the Supreme Court.
“Australia needs friends. Her
neighbors are Asiatic, It looks
as if the U.S.A. means to loosen
her grip over Japan. If Aus-
tralia persists in flouting her
Eastern neighbors, one day she
is going to be like a lonely ship
on a stormy ocean and under a
threatenirig sky.”
Corns on the Run.
Calling on U.S. Congress to
“help ferret out subversives by
plugging loopholes in anti-
espionage laws,” American
Attorney-General Clark asserted
that Corns are on the run in, or
rather from, the U.S.
Stating that “many alien Com-
munists are fleeing the country,”
he added that “others are being
shipped out as fast as law and
visa conditions permit,”
The impetus is recent, but
Clark said “the clean-up of this
Communist mess started back
in 1933, and since President
Truman took office no known
subversives have been admitted
to the United States other than
officials and delegates from
Communist countries.”
Records of the Department of
Justice, he further stated, show
that Communist-party member-
ship in the U.S. is one-third
smaller than a year ago: “Com-
munist strength has diminished
as a threat to government, as an
influence in labor and as a poli-
tical party.”
Pending £ Explosion.
Views expressed by “Wall-
street Journal’s” very able
correspondent Joseph E. Evans
can be quoted as representative
of the more responsible U.S.
comment on Britain’s current
financial troubles:
“Something has got to give.
That describes Britain’s economic
situation today,
“So much pressure is build-
ing from so many directions that
an explosion is inevitable.
Whether the blow-up will occur
in the Labor Government’s in-
flated view of the pound, the
Government’s inflated view of
the worth of British exports or
even in the Labor Government
itself is a matter of opinion. The
plain fact is that Britain cannot
go on as it is.
“The way it ris going is the
way to economic collapse. Per-
haps not collapse with a bang,
but a slow leak can deflate a tire
as well as a puncture.
“Britain’s foreign trade has
slumped all over. Its trade de-
ficit with dollar countries, spec-
tacularly cut last year, has been
increasing all this year. There
is no reason to suppose these
conditions will improve.
“While Britain grows poorer
its powerful trade-unions are de-
manding to be made richer.
They want higher Teal’ wages
in addition to Government
health services and subsidies on
food and housing. Despite
Chancellor of the Exchequer Sir
Stafford Cripps’s specific asser-
tion to the contrary, they are
convinced they can have their
cake and eat it too.”
Detailing all the various pres-
sures that have been brought to
bear on Britain, particularly
from the Continent, Evans went
on to make this comment in
regard to devaluation of the
pound as a solution:
“With so much emphasis on
the overvaluation of the pound,
the solution would seem simply
to devalue it. And that would
be at least a temporary help.
But it would not be a cure. It
would not be a cure because the
Labor Government probably
would not devalue enough. If
it devalued the pound to a
realistic rate it would be cut-
ting its own political throat.
“What would happen? Ex-
ports would go up, but what
Britain bought for dollars would
be costlier. At home food would
be more expensive ; if the Gov-
ernment didn’t raise prices it
would have to take more out of
the taxpayer’s pocket to subsi-
dise food. Either way the
clamor for wage-increases which
the Government couldn’t grant
could well be enough to unseat
the Labor party.
“Devaluation would not be a
cure for the more important rea-
son that it does not go to the
root of the evil. .The root is
rigid economic control, of
which currency overvaluation is
a branch. But the British Labor
Government will not cut out the
root because it would then cease
to be a Labor —that is, a
Socialist—Government.
“What the Labor Government,
feeling this combination of pres-
sures, mqy do is order a token
devaluation of the pound. The
pressure would be somewhat
eased thereby and the whole
picture of the European re-
covery programme made clearer,
but it would not be a funda-
mental solution. The Labor
Government might postpone
but it would not avert economic
crisis.
“It is just possible that the
forces exerting the present pres-
sure on Britain will, like the
pagan gods of old, reject such
an inadequate offering. In that
case it is difficult to see how
the Labor Government could
avoid its fate.”
Bikini Spray.
So far, out of perhaps eight
atomic explosions altogether, the
“shallow-water” blast has been
tried 6nly once, in the Baker
Test at Bikini; and, U.S. ex-
pert Dr. David Bradley told a
Michigan University audience,
it proved more sinister than the
air-burst method.
Of the 70-odd target ships at
Bikini, said Dr. Bradley, only
nine have been cleared for
further duty. The rest were
either sunk at the time or have
been since sunk by the U.S.
Navy. “Why, then,” he asked,
“after two years could not the
floating survivors of the Baker
Test be either used again or at
least broken up for scrap?”
Calling that “the most im-
portant ‘Why?’ we shall ever be
asked of atomic energy,” Dr,
Bradley explained: “The answer
is that the poison of radio-
activity still hangs like a super-
natural curse over the ships.
There is no effective way of
counteracting that curse, no
way of getting rid of the radio-
activity. ...
“Why the Baker Test should
invoke a supernatural curse of
radioactivity upon the ships
when the bombs of Hiroshima
and Nagasaki had no such effect
upon the land is at first confus-
ing, but is really not obscure.
It is purely a question of water.


You can taste the
extra flavour
in 355 Virginia
cigarettes...”
THE SECRET'S IN THE 333’s
BLEND
TATE EXPRESS
333
rV"^
amongst his gold;
"I would not part,” he said,
"With half a guinea, tho’ my life
Were to be forfeited.”
But influenza got him down,
.. 1 c
His breaths grew, short and fewer,
•Take all I’ve got,” he cried, "but give
Me Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure!”
For Hacking Coughs, take
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cnre
E-L-A-S-T-l-C
PROTECTION
FOR ALL
MINOR
INJURIES
For minor accidents, there is
no dressing quite so com-
fortable as this British-made
plaster which is adhesive and
firm, but elastic and flexible,
inconspicuous, Elastoplast is wound on a convenient
metal spool. 1" x 1 yd. long (stretching to l|/2 yds.).
FRO M ALL CHEMISTS
Flesh-coloured and
trade mark
E-l-A-S-T-l-C ADHESIVE PLASTER
first Aid Dressings, in RED tins, also available.
ANOTHER^PRODUCT OF T. J. SMITH & NEPHEW LTD., HULL, ENGLAND
When an atomic bomb bursts in
air the cyclonic convection cur-
rent carries almost all of the
dangerous particles aloft to be
dissipated in the millions of
cubic miles of atmosphere.
“A bomb exploded under
—Chicago “Sun-Times.”
ANCHORED.
water is a different matter.
Thousands and thousands of
tons of water are thrown up and
vaporised, reforming as a cloud
above the point of detonation.
Within these droplets of water
an enormous mass of dangerous
material is trapped—perhaps
half of all the fission fragments.
Down it comes as rain, soaking
all below with intense radio-
activity. This is what had been
predicted for Hiroshima and did
not occur; this is what hap-
pened at Bikini and almost
passed unmentioned
“The poison played no favor-
ites. All ships of the live fleet
anchored within the lagoon soon
became relatively contaminated
....Worst of all, this conta-
mination could not be washed
off. It was spread over all ex-
posed surfaces like a coat of
radioactive paint. The most
heroic measures on the part of
the fire-tugs and bucket-and-
brush brigades did little to re-
duce the hazard after the initial
wash-down. We tried water,
soap, fomite, lye and acid —all
to no avail. Short of sand-
blasting the surface away, noth-
ing we did made much differ-
ence.”
From all of this the atomic
expert reached these steadying
conclusions:
(1) There is no effective de-
fence against atomic weapons.
(2) There are no adequate
methods of decontaminating.
(3) The devastating influence
of' the bomb and its unborn
relatives may affect the land
and its wealth —and therefore
its people—for an unknown
period.
When They Have the
Bomb.
In N. Y. “Sun” David
Lawrence —over more than a
year of alarms the steadiest of
prophets of “no-war” —sees a
glimmer of hope even when
Russia has the atom-bomb:
“Until and unless the Rus-
sians begin making the atom-
bomb —estimated to be in 1952
—it may be assumed that the
tension preceding a possible war
wiU be relaxed. When the
American people finally are
convinced that Russia is making
atom-bombs there will be a tre-
mendous change in public senti-
ment.
“There will be those who will
want to fight a preventive war.
There will be those who will
say that, unless Russia agrees to
atomic control immediately,
other nations will be justified in
starting a war.
“But also there will be others
who will express the view that
the mere fact that both sides
can destroy each other’s cities
should lead to a different con-
cept of what diplomacy must do
to avert a war.”
J. Bull’s Oil Deals.
After much criticism —some
of it savage—the U.S. accepted
Britain’s trade deal with Argen-
tina, though with the rider that
its working would be carefully
watched to see how it affected
American interests.
The important part of that
agreement was the meat-oil deal
—Britain buying in sterling
Argentine meat for four years,
and the Argentine using the
sterling to buy British oil instead
of American. This deal has been
instanced, among others, by a
staff writer of N. Y. “Times” to
support a contention that “the
world oil markets, which have
been in the hands of United
States corporations since the in-
ception of the industry, definitely
are passing to British interests.”
The N. Y. “Times” man re-
iterated through his report the
theme-note that “the drive being
made by the British for the sale
of additional oil is being aided
by funds made available under
the Marshall Plan,” It is a sore
point in a good deal of U.S.
criticism:
“In the first place, the cost of
building refineries in Europe is
being supplied largely from
Marshall-Plan funds. These re-
fineries are being built to process
oil from the Middle East, and
with the completion of the pro-
gramme in the next two or
three years Britain and the
European countries tied to ster-
ling will have a refining capacity
capable of meeting not only
local needs but a sizeable ex-
port demand. As these refineries
are completed they are taking
over markets formerly held
largely by United States opera-
tors.”
Sweden figures in another of
the instances quoted: “In
Sweden there are three United
States companies and two British
organisations competing for the
oil business. Recently the
Swedish Government reduced
sharply the amount of dollars
available for oil importations,
which meant that the United
States companies had to curtail
their sales. At the same time
the British companies stepped in
and took over the business that
the United States companies had
to give up. They could do that
because the British companies
had been relieved of earning
dollars as a result of the
Marshall Plan aid to England.”
American oil executives are
quoted as stating that, despite
the fact that Britain has socia-
lised many industries, “foreign
business is still being carried on
most aggressively in the old capi-
talistic way, and in such a
manner that United States firms
are finding it increasingly diffi-
cult to compete. In fact, you
can’t determine where the British
Foreign Office stopped and the
British oil companies took over.”
Dragnet Digest.
Molotov’s Job.— The funny pre-
tence that Chinese Corns were not
linked with the Kremlin but were
mere “agrarian reformers,” which
Australian dailies were funny enough
to publicise, has been at last finally
refuted by those Corns themselves.
Their open declaration of loyalty, or
subservience, would be a result or
Molotov’s manoeuvring, he (N. Y.
“Times” has reported) having the
job of “wooing the Chinese Com-
munists into alignment with Soviet
Communism.” The report indicated
that that explained the apparent
eclipse of Molotov; it would mean
that his position in the Soviet set-up
is as strong as ever.
* * * *
Disillusioned Unionists. —A poll
taken among its members by the
British National Union of Railwaymen
has shown considerable disillusion-
ment over nationalisation hopes, 88
per cent, having supported nationalisa-
tion as a programme, and in the poll
44 per cent, having described their
work as now “more frustrating” and
45 per cent, as “about the same.
Hence the recent strikes, apropos of
which and the enforced Government
action N. Y. “Herald Tribune” makes
the editorial comment: “There is
evidently no easy end to labor’s con-
tinuing quest for fuller rewards and
a larger participation in the decisions
upon which its welfare depends.
Government ownership by itself only
substitutes one source of control for
another, and in so doing hedges the
right to strike with more stringent
limitations.”
* * * *
Reviving Jap Trade. —A “Wall-
street Journal” writer’s nutshell
answer to critics of U.S. policy of
stopping Jap reparation and otherwise
speeding Jap recovery: “In 1936 20
per cent, of the export trade of other
Far Eastern countries and 30 per cent,
of their import trade was with Japan.
By 1947 Japan’s share had shrunk
to one per cent, of their exports and
three per cent, of their imports. This
situation imposed on Japan excessive
dependence on American subsidies.
* * * *
Wrong Name, Right Comment.
Usually most accurate, “U.S. News
and World Report” seems to have
got one name wrong in this comment:
“Mr. Truman does as labor leaders
ask.” Maybe, “ask” isn’t the right
word, either.
* * * *
German Nationalism. —On the argu-
ment of this London “Times” com-
ment, the failure to agree yet on
Germany would seem a disguised
blessing: “It may perhaps be that
the Western Powers have over-
estimated the importance of federal-
ism either as a means of keeping
Germany weak or of preventing the
growth of aggressive nationalism. (It
was no accident that the Nazi move-
ment started in Bavaria, which was
then, as it is now, the most separatist
of all the German States.) But,
although Russian objections to mono-
polists and Junkers can be under-
stood, it seems at least equally naive
to suppose that German Communists
will necessarily be free from German
nationalism. Security cannot be
found either in German federalism or
in German revolution, but only in
the slow education of the German
people and in the wisdom and watch-
fulness of Germany’s neighbors.”
* * * *
Corns As Teachers. —“Christian
Science Monitor” comment on the
recommendation of a distinguished
U.S. educational committee (includ-
ing Eisenhower) that Communists
should be barred from the teaching
profession: “The strongest argument
against permitting Communists to
teach in the name of academic free-
dom is that they are not intellectually
free. The party-line reaches nowa-
days into even such fields as music
and biology. The end the Com-
munist aims at would destroy the
freedom under which he now oper-
ates. Membership in the party is
itself strong evidence against the
intellectual acumen and integrity of
a teacher.”
* * * *
For a Normal World. —In a leading
article on essential moves for a return
to a normal world, “U.S. News and
World Report” editor David Law-
rence lists removal of artificial trade
barriers, promotion of international
exchange, stabilisation of currencies
and the resumption of international
lending by private investors with
some sort of Government guarantee.
“It is more than ever necessary,” he
adds, “that we should not make the
mistake of thinking that Government-
controlled export or import corpora-
tions are a permanent substitute for
the channels of private enterprise
Only by following the well-travelled
and safe road of risk capitalism
can normal trade ever be resumed.”


Specify
“UNBRAKO”
High Tensile SOCKET SCREWS
51-65 BATHURST STREET,
260 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY. i
546-566 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
115-130 Waymouth Street, ADELAIDE.
532 Murray Street, PERTH.
Specify "Unbroko"
screws they will al-
ways more than meet
your most severe and
exacting requirements.
Have you seen the
special "Unbrako''
catalogue ? It's yours
on request, free end
post free.
BOOKS OF THE MOMENT
at 'Angus and Robertson, Ltd,
THE HOLY CITY, A Camera Study of Jerusalem and its Surround-
ings, by Frank Hurley. This lovely book, redolent with thh
atmosphere of the Holy City, will appeal to people of all creeds
and denominations 42/. (post 1/-)
HISTORY OF WESTERN PHIEOSOPHY, by Bertrand Russell.
“A monument of learning written with clarity and grace,
irradiated by incidental flashes of humotlr”—C. B. M. Joad.
32/9 (post 1/3)
GREAT SHORT STORIES OF THE WORLD. A treasury of
reading drawn from the literatures of the world. 1072 pages.
178 stories 15/9 (post 1/3)
HIGH VALLEY, by Charmain Clift and George Johnston.
The loveliness of the setting and the dramatic intensity of the
narrative make this “Sydney Morning Herald” 1948 competition
first-prize winner a novel to be remembered 12/6 (post 7d.)
TRIAL AND ERROR, by Chaim Weizmann. The -world-famous
leader of Zionism and first President of Israel tells the remark-
able story of his life and labours 24/6 (post 1/-)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LIMITED
Booksellers and Publishers
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. MA6511.
SUNDRY SHOWS
Despite its elaborate presen-
tation and the possession of the
longest speech ever put into the
mouth of a leading actress, Jean
Cocteau’s play, “The Eagle Has
Two Heads,” put on by Aztec
Theatres at Melbourne Princess,
is basically insensate melodrama.
Alongside it “East Lynne”
is a masterpiece of human
understanding. There is
nothing wrong with the story,
but with the commonplaceness
of the telling of it. A queen is
obsessed with the memory of
her assassinated husband. A
young revolutionary poet, bent
on her assassination, tumbles
wounded through her bedroom
window at the moment she is
sitting down to dinner with the
ghost of her dead,husband. He
falls in love with her and she
with him, and the play works
up to a titanic climax where he
takes poison but is left with
sufficient strength to drive a
dagger into the beloved object,
thus putting an end to the
tournament of rhetoric and res-
cuing six actors from the agony
of making speeches they can’t
feel.
One of the speeches contains
2882 words and lasts 20 minutes,
more than twice as long as the
speech of the Inquisitor in
Shaw’s “Saint Joan.” But, then,
what the Inquisitor has to say is
a magnificent piece of argumen-
tation. What poor Miss Elaine
Foster has to say is sentimental
nonsense and strangely boring,
and the fact that she did so well
is very much to her credit. The
poet’s part is equally exacting.
He never opens his mouth in
the first act, but makes up For
it handsomely in the others;
however, the job of making un-
reality seem real was beyond the
capacity of John Kingsmill. As
chief-of-police of the Baron
Scarpia genus, Eric Reiman
turned in his usual polished per-
formance. Shirley Davis and
Barrett Fleming were two
stereotyped court conventions,
but William Bargo, a full-
blooded aboriginal cattlejman
from Queensland, made a re-
markably good fist of the
queen’s servant. Tom Roth-
field’s production was the best
seen in Melbourne for a long
time. The castle library was
splendiferous and intelligently
lighted.
« * * *
“Tripoli,” the Kiwis’ new
show at Sydney Empire, is
much the same as their first
one, which means that it is a
light, bright and entertaining
vaudeville confection of song-
andance, comedy and conjuring,
all of it colorfully and immacu-
lately dressed and played with
professional finish and unpro-
fessional enthusiasm. Female
impersonators John Hunter,
Wally Prictor and Ralph Dyer
are so amazingly clever that
they completely break down
any prejudices one may have
against that particular line of
entertainment; Hunter particu-
larly is so good that it is very
doubtful if even an actress
could effectively replace him.
Bernard Heinze’s latest series
of Youth Concerts at the Mel-
bourne Town Hall were twisted
by the coal strike, and the second
series occurred before the first.
What difference this made in
musical appreciation is *not
known. All the Ormond Pro-
fessor’s proteges are extra-
ordinarily earnest, follow his ex-
planations with bated breath,
listen to the playing as if they
were trying to solve a crossword-
puzzle, and are so concentrated
that they alb turn the pages of
their programme simultaneously
with a sound that suggests a
landslide. Whether this is the
best way to assimilate music is
a moot question. It is rather
like reading a book, not to get
its flavor, but to see how many
times the author splits his in-
finitives or uses the indefinite
article.
There was nothing wrong with
the performance. Mozarts
“Eine kleine Nachtmusik” was
played with daintiness and fresh-
ness, and there was some rich
playing in the Bach Toccata in
C Major. Harold Williams, one
of Australia’s finest bdritones,
made a beeline for the micro-
phone after Professor Heinze,
and also told his audience what
to think about the music, which
in his case were two monologues
from the “Mastersingers” and
the captain’s lament, “The Term
Is Past,” from “The Flying
Dutchman.” They were all
beautifully sung. Beethoven’s
Seventh concluded the proceed-
ings. »
* * * *
Rafael Kubelik conducted two
vigorous concerts at the Mel-
bourne Town Hall last week,
and two outstanding items were
both Czech and both new to
Australia, Dvorak’s “Husitska”
was the tribute by a Catholic
composer to the great Protestant
struggle of John Huss against
the domination of the 14th-
century church which brought
him to the stake. It was strong
and heroic and full of orchestral
color. Otakar Ostrcil’s set of
symphonic variations, “The
Road to Calvary,” at the second
concert, was entirely different.
Its groaning dissonances and
dark tones were tragedy incar-
nate, The conductor had the
orchestra on its toes in this per-
formance. Richard Chugg gave
an amazing display of virtuosity
in the dialogue between flute and
orchestra in the Ibert concerto,
which made demands on the
soloist that few could answer,
Harold Williams, back from
overseas, made his first appear-
ance with his baritone in better
form than ever,
* * * *
There could have been few
more striking contrasts in style,
idiom and theme than those of
the two symphonies presented
by Eugene Goossens at the
fourth of the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra’s subscription con-
certs : the Sibelius Fourth and
the Schumann Third. The sur-
realist mind professes to see in
the Sibelius a work of “cosmic
vastness” and other hysterical
attributes. The plain fact is that
its themes are niggardly, its
pages of atonality irritating, its
alleged rhythms tortuous. The
music is as bleak, gaunt, for-
bidding and desolate—and seem-
ingly almost as drearily long—
as a Finnish winter night, which
obviously inspired it; it is
savage and. moody, its only re-
deeming feature the infinite re-
source of its orchestration. For
spinning rich color there is no
greater living master than Sibe-
lius. But tone-color doesn’t
alone constitute a major work.
The Fourth may with great
virility assert the composer’s
rugged individuality; as some-
thing to listen to with pleasure
—and what else is music for?
—this symphony is definitely
“out.” The orchestra put in a
tremendous amount of work on
it.
Schumann’s “Rhenish” Sym-
phony is the exact antithesis: it
is warmly human, vital and, ex-
cept in the fourth movement,
which evokes the solemn scene in
Cologne Cathedral’ of Arch-
bishop Geissel being elevated to
cardinal, the mood is bright.
The claims have often been
raised that Schumann was an in-
different contrapuntist, that his
symphonic works lacked coher-
ence, that profundity was mis-
sing—all of which are to a
point true. Nevertheless, this
symphony, steeped in the rural
beauty of the Rhineland, is not
badly integrated, and if it fails'
to stir the listener to any extent
at least it doesn’t repel, as does
the Sibelius. The orchestra was
at its best in the elegiac pages of
the opening Lebhaft and in the
majestifc sweep of the cathedral
scene. Rudolf Schock sang two
Mozart operatic numbers with
lilt and life, but he Jacked weight
of tone to do full justice to the
Prize Song from “The Master-
singers.”
* * * *
After a very long run at Syd-
ney Embassy the ballet film
“The Red Shoes” went straight
over to the Variety for further
exhibition. The Embassy re-
placed it with “Fallen Idol,” a
film version of the Graham
Greene story about a butler who
is idolised by a small boy,
nagged by his wife and in love
with a young typiste. The film
is one of the finest seen in Syd-
ney for a long, long time. It
is almost perfectly directed by
Carol Reed, with acting of
similar quality from Ralph
Richardson, Michele Morgan,
Sonia Dresdel, Bobby Henrey
as the boy and several others.
Richardson’s performance makes
one wonder if there is a better
actor anywhere.
* * * *
Sydney Regent’s current offer-
ing, “Every Girl Should Be
Married,” is a lightly amusing
manhunt with' Betsy Drake as
the huntress and Cary Grant as
the hunter, and should convince
any bachelor that he hasn’t a
dog’s chance of staying that
way. Miss Drake, a newcomer
to films, appears to be a young
woman of mixed talents —at
times Mr. Grant’s running from
her seems inexplicable ;* at
others, particularly when the
young lady is behaving like an
objectionable, gangling bobby-
soxer, it’s difficult to under-
stand why Mr. Grant doesn’t
run a damn’ sight faster.
* * * «
Showing concurrently in Syd-
ney are Mr. Elliott Forbes’s
“Secrets of Life” at the Savoy
and “That Wonderful Urge” at
the Mayfair, both disseminating
a certain amount of biological
information. But while Mr.
Forbes takes rather a dim view
of things, the Mayfair show, a
comedy with Gene Tierney and
Tyrone Power, is evoking
laughter of pre-strike quality.
* * * *
Historians tie up their morsel
on Lucrezia Borgia by declaring,
with a touch of sadness, that
from the age of 22, when she
married her third husband, the
Duke of Ferrara, she was a.good
girl, having four children and
Titian to paint them all. Para-
mount’s film differs on this point,
bring Lucrezia (Paulette God-
dard) to the Duke as “The Bride
of Vengeance” and nearly having
her poison him. Her acting is
not very good, but she may be
pardoned, shamed as she is by a
husband who is known through-
out the country as the half-wit
who, instead of taking a good
unhealthy interest in the politics
of his day, prefers to spend his
time moulding a bronze Jupiter
in his castle foundry. The un-
veiling of this, masterpiece is a
good moment, for Jupiter is a
monster gun-barrel which, say-
ing nothing till the very end and
then only, one short line, is some-
how the strongest character in
the film. Sydney Prince Edward
is the scene of this connubial
homicide.
* * * *
The emergency power-plant at
Sydney “St. James” is bearing
up well considering that Mickey
Rooney appears in the current
show, a technicolor musical
about song-writers Rogers and
Hart, entitled “Words and
Music.” One of a couple of
bright spots in the film occurs
when June Allyson sings such a
sprightly ditty to some knights
of old that their armor buckles;
another when Gene Kelly and a
little blond carpet-snake perform
a very slippery dance entitled
“Slaughter on Fifth Avenue.”
It seems a pity, however, that the
producer of the film could not
have contrived to get Mr.
Rooney on that particular
avenue in time for the disaster.


Women's letters
From Melbourne
St. Patrick’s Cathedral was the setting
for the marriage of Peg, only child of
Mr. and Mrs. L. W. Montgomery, of
Kew, with Rafael Lagares, one of the
leading tenors in the Italian Opera Co.
which Melbourne enjoyed late last year.
The bride’s Edwardian gown of mag-
nolia satin had an apron front trimmed
with Chantilly lace and a bustle at the
back. Her finger-tip-length, three-tiered
tulle veil fell from a Juliet cap of Chan-
tilly lace, and she carried a posy of
marguerites and cream roses. Matron-
of-honor was Mrs. Mario Virgona, whose
oyster-grey satin gown was made on
similar lines to that of the bride; her
pale-pink feather toque was draped to
the side. Flower-girl Penelope Black’s
magnolia satin frock was made with a
yoke of Chantilly lace and an underslip
which showed below the hem; she
carried a posy of Cecil Brunner roses to
match those worn in her hair. The
bridegroom, who is the eldest son of
Mrs. M. Lagares, of Buenos Aires,
Argentina, and the late Mr. Lagares, had
Mario Virgona as best man. Reception
was at the Ritz.
Members of the large committee which
is arranging the ball to be held on Octo-
ber 27 at Earl’s Court to assist the build-
ing fund of the C. of E. chapel at the
Flinders Naval Depot were guests of
Commodore Dallmeyer and Mrs. Dall-
meyer at their home at the depot —the
commodore is head of the appeal com-
mittee. Among those who attended were
president of the ball committee Mrs. H.
A. Showers, Mesdames G. I. Stevenson,
Leonard Darling, Wallace Mitchell,
Norman Spry, Edward Campbell and
Gordon Darling. Mrs, Dallmeyer, who
wore a grey English tweed suit, was
assisted by wives of other naval officers
at the depot: Mrs. John Were, also in
grey ; Mrs. R. J. Robertson, her wool-
jersey frock a pale-primrose; and Mrs.
L. Gellalty, whose wine-red jacket-suit
was worn with a small navy hat. Eng-
lish visitor Sheila Leared, who is the
guest of Commodore and Mrs. Dall-
meyer at Flinders, was in powder-blue
tweeds.
The Air Force Women’s Association is
busy with plans for its annual Battle for
Britain Ball, to be held at St. Kilda Town
Hall on September 8. Mrs. F. M. Bladin
is the committee’s president. From funds
raised by previous functions three
scholarships are now available for
children of deceased airmen, and as soon
as the selection committee has completed
its work the scholarships will be
awarded. Mrs. W. N. Gibson is secre-
tary of the ball committee; treasurer is
Mrs. D. Beattie and ticket-secretaries
Mesdames A. Murdoch and G. Candy.
Mrs. R, C. Cresswell will look after the
publicity. Popular Mrs. Allan Walters
will be missed from the ball committee
this year—she is in England with her
daughter Robin, who was presented at
the last Buckingham Palace garden
party.
Heath, chrysanthemums and autumn
foliage made a decorative background at
the farewell party Patric Whittam gave
at the home of her parents. Dr. and
Mrs. T. J. K. Whittam, of South Mel-
bourne, for her sister Yvonne and bal-
lerina Brenda Hamlyn, who will sail for
England shortly with Brenda’s mother,
Mrs. E, Fickling. On the way they will
spend a month at Ceylon, where they
will stay on a plantation owned by Noel
O’Connell, Mrs. Tickling’s brother. Pat’s
woollen frock was donkey-grey, its skirt
flared. Black velvet with white guipure
lace on the shoulders and hemline com-
prised Yvonne’s frock, Brenda’s scarlet-
wool frock was swathed at the waist with
a satin sash. Mrs, Whittam’s grey-wool
jacket-suit had a basque at the waist of
the jacket. Mrs. Fickling’s grey woollen
frock featured the squared neckline. Mrs.
Dick Doyle contrasted her navy frock
with a waist-length white jacket. Mrs.
Theo Walsh, a Texan who married an
Australian, was in black velvets and a
small cap of white feathers.
A letter from Beryl James (Miss Aus-
tralia) tells of the many interesting things
she has seen since arriving in England,
including the trooping of the color. Her
greatest thrill was meeting the King ; she
told his Majesty how disappointed every-
one was at the forced cancellation of
the Royal tour. Beryl attended a film
premiere at which Queen Mary was the
guest of honor, appeared in a newsreel
wearing one of the lovely evening gowns
she took from Australia, lunched with
Stewart Grainger and met many other
film-stars at the Theatrical Garden Party.
Beryl is at present travelling through
France and Italy and expects to be back
home early in November.
Members of the French community
celebrated their National Day with a ball
in the lower Town Hall. This was
organised by the committee of the
Alliance Franchise. French flags and the
flag of the Alliance decorated the ball-
room, while on the official table were
bowls of deep-red roses. The official
party, which included the Consul for
France, M. Roger Loubere, U.S. Consul-
General S. J. Fletcher and Mrs. Fletcher,
and Consul for China Martin Wang and
his wife were received by the president
of the Alliance, Madame Albertine Gay,
whose gown was of midnight-blue and
silver brocade, and the secretary, Madame
M. Cockerton, her black crepes slim-
fitting. Mrs. Fletcher’s gown of midnight-
blue crepe romaine had wide jewelled
shoulder-straps. Madame Y. Fano wore
a strapless gown of black velvet and full-
length lace gloves. Mrs. Maurice Belz’s
gown of black lace had a skirt of three
tiers. Madame A. Finot’s strapless
bouffant gown of white embroidered
organza had large pink roses set at one
side of the bodice, which was covered
with a pink tulle scarf. The deep collar
of Annie Peliesser’s ankle-length black
velvet frock was finished with white
daisies ; her small white velvet cap carried
white feathers and pearl embroideries.
Christiane Bayard combined white eyelet
linen and black velvet effectively, a black
velvet cap with white ospreys giving a
neat finishing touch. Mrs. Donald Camp-
bell’s gown was of turquoise and silver
lame. Madame Andree McDonald was
in floral poult of mauve, blue and pink
tonings. Her daughter Andree’s ankle-
length frock was of madonna-blue moire
, taffeta.
Elizabeth Schleicher, daughter of
Captain and Mrs. J. W. Schleicher, of
St. Leonards-on-Sea,, came from Eng-
land with her aunt, Mrs. J. T. Lewis, of
Toorak, with whom she is staying. In
London Elizabeth was secretary to an
advertising agency. She rides, plays
tennis and swims.
The vivi£ flash of color was a rare
sight at the rather soberly-dressed
Moonee Valley meeting—the yellow and
mauve tweed suit worn by Mrs. Iris
Clarke with a small yellow felt hat was
quite a cheerful sight. Mrs. Tyrwhitt-
Drake wore a hip-length white-lamb coat,
brown frock and brown suede fur-lined
boots. Deep-rose and blue were in the
check suit worn by Mrs. Desmond Holly-
wood with a grey Persian-lamb toque and
matching muff. San Francisco visitor
Mrs. Russ Bowell was well to the fashion
fore in a three-piece ensemble of bur-
gundy wool-crepe ; her matching hat had
pleated wings. Miss Oswald Bowden
was another who favored this material.
With her brown alpaca tailored coat
Mrs. Russell Clarke wore a small brown
hat finished with veiling. A pastel-pink
felt hat with matching feathers at one
side set off Mrs. T. Lewis’s mink coat.
Mrs. A. G. Warner’s dove-grey tent-
coat was worn with a small navy beret.
The hat Ivy Parker wore with her grey
gabardine raincoat was small, of brown
velvet and plaited with beige and mustard.
A navy tailored frock and hip-length
jacket was worn by Mrs. A. Drakeford
with a navy hat flying fine pink feathers.
Her daughter Muriel was cosy in Ameri-
can grey musquash and a beige felt hat
trimmed with emerald-green and brown
feathers. Under a dyed-ermine coat the
Wales lady wore a powder-blue frock;
her small beret was of brown felt. Mrs.
James Buchanan’s mustard-and-grey-
check tent-coat was crowned with a
draped navy wool-jersey cap. An almond-
green angora frock was worn by Mrs.
Burns Campbell under a brown Persian-
lamb coat. Bands of fur at the shoulders
and hemline of Mrs. Hogan-Taylor’s
deep-wine wool coat were smart notes.
From Sydney
In glorious weather the 30 special
travellers making the pre-inaugural flight
in the new and then unnamed C.P. air-
liner reached Sydney. Heading the not-
ables were Senator the Hon. James A.
MacKinnon, Acting Minister of Trade
and Commerce, and G. W. G. McCon-
achie, president of the Canadian Pacific
Airlines. Then, primus or no primus,
things began cookin’.
Canada’s Acting-Trade Commissioner,
M. R. M. Dale, gave a dinner-party in
his Elizabeth Bay home. Because of
space, this was a small party —guest-of-
honor was Senator MacKinnon. The
Lord Mayor held civic reception at noon
on Friday, the Pacific Airlines importants
spread a lunch in the Australia and wife
of Aviation Minister Drakeford kept
tryst with the new airliner at Mascot and
christened her Empress of Sydney. Be-
tween five-thirty and seven on the same
day Mr. McConachie was host at
a rainbow-hued cocktail-party in the
Australia. On Sunday morning there
was a party to give Canadian residents
the chance to meet the visitors. This
was in the Crofts’ home in Billyard-
avenue —once the Frank Albert fastness.
Guests of the Empress of Australia
christening-party at Mascot were regaled
to luscious tea. Most of them then came
back to the city, and went on to the
late-afternoon reception at the Australia
where the foods were even more sump-
tuous. G. W. G. McConachie of C.P.A.
and Canada’s Senator MacKinnon have a
manner- at once easy and breezy.
Canadian Pacific Railway Co.’s represen-
tative in Sydney, N. R. McMorran, his
wife and daughter, the Robert Wyatts
and the Cecil Hoskins couple (booked
for Vancouver by the Empress in
August) were active in making this
party one of the successes of the week.
Mrs. Oscar Natzka, photographed here
by Norton Trevaire, is, like her famous
basso husband, a Maorilander. To be
exact, she hails from Auckland, Before
her marriage she had done much ora-
torio and concert work.
David Farquhar, a lad from Cambridge
(Maoriland), is off to Cambridge, Eng-
land, in pursuit of his Doctorate of Music.
David, who has been staying with his
relations the Gemmell Smiths of the
North Shore line, sailed in the Dominion
Monarch. He has already a number of
compositions to his credit, among them a
charming setting to some of William
Blake’s poems. Margo Thomas, a Blake
enthusiast who interprets some of the
poet’s paintings in dance and his verse in
song, has now included David Farquhar’s
compositions in her repertoire.
It’s a good job that the funny-bone is
somewhere up the sleeve ; had it been
placed about the knee-joints the Kiwis
wouldn’t have got half the laughs they
deserved on the opening night of their
new bill, “Tripoli.” Knee-joints were
stiff with cold and a bit creaky unless
wrapped in a rug, for the Empire was
assailed with a vasty cold. The audience,
however, was almost capacity, and
laughed and clapped from the word “go.”
The Governor, Lieut.-General John
Northcott, daughter Elizabeth, Captain
Nash and Sheila Collett were enthusiastic
applauders.
The lighting was emergency dim, but
the Kiwis’ wardrobe-mistress cleverly
balanced this with plenty of glitter on
the frocks of the women impersonators.
If you want to forget your cold, com-
fortless, cheerless homes visit the Kiwis.
In particular listen to Wally Prictor’s
Hints on Bicycling. In these days of
material shortages his suggestion that if
your bike needs pedals, to just pluck
them from the piano, seems a sound idea.
Mary Woodward (Miss New Zealand)
looked in on Sydney last Wednesday.
Mary is very petite and really lovely.
She is a keen ballet-dancer, has a sheaf
of music diplomas and is studying Arts
at Auckland College of the University of
Enzed. Her home-town is New Ply-
mouth, where father is a well-known
magistrate. The Miss New Zealand con-
test was run to raise funds for the Air
Force Memorial.
Miss New Zealand epitomised all
the best qualities of the nicest girls
from Auckland to the Bluff when
she met her first Sydney public
at the Air Force Association’s party in
her honor. Mary, who is fair and
21, wore a trig navy suit slashed with
white, in the lapel of which was worn the
N.Z. Air Force Association badge. Her
smiling face was framed in a white felt
cloche, with a mercury-like dash about its
white quills. The party was in the Sava-
rin, and the association’s president, John
Bavin, and his wife and secretary “Ces”
Austin and his wife did the honors.
Notable, too, in the gathering were the
Farrans —he is the director of the associa-
tion’s appeal. Miss Woodward will be
the guest of the A.F.A. during her stay
in Sydney, and many jaunts have been
planned for her. Otto James, of York
Motors, has placed a latest-model
Plymouth at her beck and call. She goes
to Canberra to call on the Prime Minister.
A trip down the South Coast, a day in
Bowral, where she will lunch at Craigie-
burn. A night at the Kiwis’ show as their
guest, and a dinner-party given by Mr.
and Mrs. Love at their home at Strath-
field, plus a round of the shops, are listed
among her doings for the week she is
here. After that she flies to England. She
expects to return to Maoriland in
December.
Dr. Alphons Silbermann, lecturer on
music at Sydney Conservatorium, sails
in the Strathaird on July 22. He will
lecture during hi§ tour at the Sorbonne,
Paris, St. Cecilia’s, Rome, and at the
University of Leyden, Holland. Last
week he gave a supper-party to say good-
bye to the Rudolf Schock couple. Direc-
tor of the Conservatorium, Eugene Goos-
sens, who is also about to depart to con-
duct at the Edinburgh Festival, was
another guest.
The Consul for Norway and Mrs.
H. J. Hofgaard have sent out invitations
for a late-afternoon party on July 27 in
honor of Professor T. Hytten and Mrs.
Hytten. The professor is on his way to
Tasmania, of which island’s university he
is the new Vice-Chancellor.
Congratulations from far and wide
flowed in on the A. E. H. Garlings
(kinsfolk to Jean Garling, ballet and
poetry enthusiast of this city), of Toora-
weenah —it’s at the foot of the Warrum-
bungle mountains —on their golden
wedding. Celebrations rang through the
station-home of another clansman,
Arthur Butler of aviation fame.
The Lunch-time Music Club, of which
the gifted Sydney de Vries had been
musical director since its inception, can-
celled its eighth birthday party owing to
the sudden death of this loved friend.
With the cancellation notice the commit-
tee also sent out a tribute to Mr. de
Vries’s career. He started to study medi-
cine at Caius College, Cambridge.
World War I changed his plans. After
that conflagration died down he took up
music and studied at the Guildhall School
in London. He had sung opera at Covent
Garden and throughout Europe, and
had starred at the Bayreuth Festival be-
fore making his home in Sydney; The
Lunch-time Music Club is planning a
music scholarship to perpetuate the
memory of this great lover of music.
If the Dominion Monarch had posi-
tively staggered through the Heads out-
ward-bound last week it wouldn’t have
been surprising. There was a regular
drench of champagne around all the best
cabins. The DM. went off in the evening
hours, so travellers from Sydney made
their entertaining lengthen out to match
the hour of the ship’s departure. The
Frank Walker-Smiths, of Darling Point,
and daughters Beulah and Elayne had
three cabins full of friends drinking a
parting glass. Dr. and Mrs. Howard
Bullock and Mrs. Brian Crowley and
daughter Ann were among other well-
knowns in the passenger list.
The cosy, Edwardian-looking Palace
Theatre in Pitt-street is now presenting
Noel Coward’s “Present Laughter” to full
houses in spite of transport difficulties.
The author would be amazed at the line
in his comedy which evokes one of the
biggest laughs coupled with a deep sigh
of envy. It is the line where the young
ingenue replies to commiserating inquiry
on the coldness of the spare-room where
she had spent the night; “She hadn’t felt
the cold. She had kept the radiator on
all night!”
The dresses worn by the naughty
Joanna, and Liz Essendine, the wife of
the star, Garry Essendine, are liable to
give women ideas. There’s a black taffeta
and velvet number in which Joanna does
a sort of modern Mrs. Potiphar scene that
is shattering. The skirt sweeps to flowing
fullness at the back from a large bustle-
bow. The bodice is a trifling affair which
leaves the whole of the arms, shoulders
and back bared to the breeze. Liz’s
moss-green velvets, flowing skirt and
square-cut neckline have allure of their
own.


te
y*
r
f
a
y
y
;"r"
MS
\2
There are times which call for
something better than the merely
very good, and demand
the unquestionable best . Where
cigarettes are concerned the man
of taste is guided by the
words “ Benson & Hedges 9
Old Bond Street 9 London ”, From
this famous address comes fine
tobacco perfection to satisfy all those
occasions when only the best will do
BY APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS TO
HIS MAJESTY THE KINO
In
tins of 20
3/-
SUPER VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
BY
Bensona,a Hedges
LTD
OLD BOND STREET , LONDON
j
pile
*h
th
ere’*
fo
no
ot Pzth
m
When you walk at night, you walk in danger of your life. Maybe you can
see the motorist, but, can the motorist see you ?
If you have to walk where there is no footpath, then follow these rules:
always walk on the right side of the road, to face the oncoming traffic.
Always carry something white in your left hand to make you readily visible.
This way you aid the motorist, and make your own position much safer.
Remember—the weight of the argument is with the car. Don’t court
death. Observe these night-walking rules for your life’s sake.
DEATH IS SO PERMANENT
»oa?
■
$ ;
ISSUED BY THE AUSTRALIAN ROAD SAFETY COUNCIL
(Administered by the Commonwealth Department of Transport)
RSV 31.83.79
Missing Friend.
TOM MUIR.—WiII THOMAS MUIR, son
of the late James B. Muir, Jeweller, who
resided at Caithcart, Glasgow, kindly com-
municate with RUSSELL & DUNOAN,
Solicitors, 105 St. Vincent Street,
Glasgow, Scotland.
IAVINA
17-jewelled Swiss
Masterpieces
&
with
NON-MAGNETIC ESCAPEMENT
LAVfNA
WATCHES
u Founded in JS52-Villeret, Suisse
LW2
!%f ALL-BRITISH
C S£
GIVES
PERSONALITY
TO YOUR
WRITING
THE POPULAR PEN
with the
MARVELLOUS NIB
Conway Stewart & Co. Ltd.,
London.
S. W. RAMSAY
Melbourne and Sydney
ĵ
MEMORISE
WITH EASE
Pass Examinations.
Speak Without Notes.
Grip Lodge Ritual.
Send stamp for booklet.
Rev. W. Rowlands
12 Younger Grove,
Caulfield, S.E. 8, Vie.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Information Sought.
Meaning of the word “maffick”?
To celebrate an event, especially an
occasion of national rejoicing, with
wild and extravagant exuberance.
From the uproarious scenes and un-
restrained exultation that took place
in London on the night of May 18,
1900, when the news of the relief of
the South African town of Mafeking
(besieged by the Boers since the pre-
vious November) became known.
w ♦ * »
What was the Dawes Plan?
A plan evolved in 1923 by the com-
mission of which General Charles
Dawes, American lawyer, financier
and politician, was chairman, to in-
vestigate the possibilities as to Ger-
man payment of reparations after
World War I. The plan was pui into
effect September 1, 1924. It involved
.balancing the budget and stabilising
the currency of Germany, and had as
special features a five-year sliding
scale of payments up to 2500 million
marks, covered by a mortgage on
German industries.
* * =f! *
What is the subject-matter of Zola's
novel “UAssommoir"?
Published in 1877 and part of the
series Les Rougon-Macquart, it is
written in the argot of the Paris
streets and is a study of the effects
of drink on the lives of working-class
people. It is considered to be one of
the best examples of the author’s
naturalistic methods. The book,
which brought fame to Zola, also
caused him to be bitterly attacked,
because of the nature of the subject.
* * * *
Who was Lizzie Borden ?
She was the principal in a cele-
brated murder case in the United
States in 1892, in which she w.as
accused of having killed her father
and stepmother with an axe. She
became the subject of many popular
ballads of the time, and attracted the
interest of a number of literary men
in the 1920’s and 1930’s, notably
Edmund Pearson and Alexander
Woollcott.
* * * *
What does bowdlerise mean?
To expurgate a book. Thomas
Bowdler, in 1818, gave to the world
an edition of Shakspeare’s works “in
which nothing is added to the original
text; but those words and expres-
sions are omitted which cannot be
read aloud in a family.” This was
in ten volumes. Bowdler subsequently
treated Gibbon’s Decline and Fall in
the same way. Hence the term.
* * * *
How to construct a soundproof
attic floor ?
It is not possible to soundproof
completely a floor of this nature, but
a great deal can be done to reduce
noise, which would be mainly impact
noise, by cushioning the floor. This
can be done by simply building a
floor in the normal way and covering
it with thick underfelt and a carpet.
In theory it should be possible to
achieve a similar result by isolating
the floor from the underlying ceiling-
joists by laying bearers over the joists
with a hard rubber or similar material
between the bearers and the joists.
Unable to quote any practical ex-
perience of the successful" carrying-
but of this type of structure locally,
and it is considered that the best prac-
tical recommendation is the first one.
* * * *
Treatment of coal-tar or bitumen
so that it may be mixed with water?
Coal-tar or bitumen may be emul-
sified in water, but only satisfactorily
under controlled conditions and by
the use of quite expensive equipment,
using a chemical homogeniser or a
dispersion mill. The processing con-
sists essentially of agitating or “beat-
ing” the material in water containing-
a small quantity of a dispersing agent.
Pulverising or melting may be re-
quired in addition as a preliminary
treatment for bitumen. A wide range
of materials or combinations of
materials may be used as dispersing
agents. For example, alkalis, soap,
sulphonated oils, tall oil, etc.
Brief Answers.
J.G.: The first zebus were introduced
in 1843 to Port Essington, N.T. This
and other matters are dealt with in
Bulletin No. 172, “Zebu-cross Cattle in
Northern Australia,” issued by the
Council for Scientific and Industrial
Research, Melbourne W.G.H.:
Try “The Australian Woman’s
Mirror,” 252 George-street, Sydney,
or “The Australian Journal,” 350
Swanston-street, Melbourne....
C.E.A.: Paragraph by “Gouger” in
the “Aboriginalities” pages of The
Bulletin, April 13, 1949, covers the
question.. .'.G.W.F.: Write Customs
Dept., Circular Quay, Sydney
C.G.H.: Write Commonwealth Statis-
tician, Federal Bureau of Census and
Statistics, Canberra Tas. Inquirer:
If you will send your name and
address we will post you details con-
cerning origin of the name of Ringa-
rooma... .J.W.: The prize has been
temporarily abandoned. If and when
it is decided to resume it particulars
will be forwarded J.S.M.; The
reason why sheep aren’t shorn when
they are wet is because the wet wool
clogs the machine E.McG.:
Salaries of members of the
N.S.W. Judiciary are: Chief Jus-
tice, £4000 p.a.; Puisne Judges, of
the Supreme Court, £3IOO p.a., and
District Court Judges, £IBOO p.a.....
E.D.: Write H. W. Malloch, Hon.
Sec., Bread and Cheese Club, 980
High-street, Armadale (Vic.)....
A.R.: “An Ode to Darwin Town”
appeared on The Red Page of The
Bulletin for August 13, 1941.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the
MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be
addressed to the Editor,
\
S.G.: Can’t grant you a poet’s
licence on the verses submitted
C.K.: You’ll have to learn
the bqiling-down business before you
have much hope T.D.: With plea-
sure ! The contributor who says he
will be obliged if we will throw the
MS. in the basket is a rare bird....
R.McG.: The Religious Editor shied
at it, and hurriedly borrowed a shil-
ling and took to drink E.V.P.:
We regard all those scrawly lines in
faint pencil merely as an outrageous
attempt to damn our eyes... .K. 8.:
The patriotic poem has a heavy list
towards the basket M.A.: The
man who jambs his typewritten lines
so closely together that a microbe
couldn’t push between them, much
less a stout sub-editor, knocks off
about 25 per cent, of his chances of
seeing print P.H.: To tell you the
truth, we found the printed circular
on the other side more interesting
than your bitter verse A.H.M.:
Sincere verse with some graceful
touches, but it slides down to the
commonplace level too often
A.K.M.: The basket yawned for it.
... .Bellerive: Fits in with the revival
of the kerosene-lamp:
. ...T.L.: Can’t find room for your
roses and dewdrops A.T.: Send
story of Fisher’s ghost to any of the
dailies that go in for rehashed his-
tory T.A.: We do not know what
it means. Have you any inkling
yourself?
Up to the ceiling
And around and around
Capered a moth with
A fluttering sound.
Around the glare of
My bedroom light
It circled and pranced
In wanton flight.
Singed by the heat
And unable to glide,
Its antics now over
It crumpled and died.


TO THRff
* martinis *
Most people who like cocktails like Martinis.
Remember that there are three versions, each
tasting noticeably different from the others.
m
m
Half fill a Vz pint glass
with broken ice and add
1 dash of Orange Bitters.
1 /3 glass Sweet Vermouth.
2/3 glass Vickers Gin.
Stir, strain into a cocktail glass.
Squeeze lemon-peel on top.
OTj
2/3 Vickers Gin.
1/3 Dry Vermouth.
Ice and shake well.
Serve with an olive.
in
Vi glass Vickers Gin.
1/4 glass Sweet Vermouth.
1/4 glass Dry Vermouth.
Vickers gin
fomt&ud d'&nce /I&O
/ VG2:
f
BABY
LOVES
to revel in the delight-
ful cream-like lather of
Cuticura Soap* . K
. beeps his lender skin
healthy and ex-
quisitely soft
and velvety.
One of the famous
trio-JCuticura Soap,
Ointment and Tal-
cum Powder.
530
j
ĵ
*
Ancestors o
an Industry
Sir Edward Frankland was among the
first to develop the theory of valency, which ex-
plains how the atoms that constitute all matter
are held together. This theory played an impor-
tant part in the subsequent growth of chemistry.
With Sir Norman Lockyer, British astronomer,
Frankland discovered the existence of helium in
the sun. In addition, he was one of the leading
authorities on water supply, and instituted a
system for the periodic examination of water for
bacteria which brought him widespread renown.
Born in Churchtown. Lancashire, in 1825, Frank-
land was apprenticed to a druggist in Lancaster
until he went to London at the age of twenty to
study chemistry. In 1851, he was appointed
professor of chemistry at Owen s College, Man-
chester. Returning to London in 1857, he held
appointments at St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, The
Royal Institution and The Royal School of Mines.
He was President of the Chemical Society from
1871-3, and of the Institute of Chemistry from
1877-80. The Royal Society
awarded him its highest honour
the Copley Medal—in 1894;
Frankland was knighted in 1897,
five years before his death.
ICI
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Attendance at Canterbury on Satur-
day seemed little affected by the
absence of public transport; there
were 22,000 present compared with
20,000 at the same course the previous
week. These figures make it difficult
to understand the Sydney Turf Club’s
decision to transfer to Moorefield the
meeting which was to have been held
at Rosehill next Saturday, when, the
first leg of the Club’s rich winter
double is to be run. If Moorefield
has any advantages over Rosehill in
the matter of accessibility, which is
debatable, they are more than out-
weighed by Moorefield’s lack of facili-
ties and general unsuitability as the
venue of a first-class meeting. At the
same time, however, there isn’t much
justification for the reported moaning
by owners and others about the dis-
tance of the £3OOO Winter Handicap
being altered from seven furlongs to a
mile. Mile races on the tricky Moore-
field circuit are frequently won by
horses hard put to gel six furlongs
on other tracks.
Jockey N. Sellwood pretty thor-
oughly clinched his grip on the
jockeys’ premiership by landing a
treble at Canterbury. That brought his
score to 61 \ winners from 368
mounts; J. Thompson is next with
531 winners, followed by G, Moore
(32) and apprentice R. Selkrig (27).
Sellwood employed different tactics
in each of his three wins on Saturday,
but all bore the same trade-marks of
good horsemanship—smartness at the
barrier and tip-top judgment of pace.
On the Hua three-year-old Bonnie
Prince, in the first Welter (6f.), Sell-
wood rode a forward race just in
behind the leader. Grey Theo, most
of the trip, and forging to the front
inside the last half-furlong to beat
Sea Serpent by a heck. He rode a
somewhat similar race on another
three-year-old, Coronation Joy, in the
second Welter, but was able to con-
fidently take charge much earlier in
the piece; Coronation Joy was m
front turning for home and ran on
to beat Prince Charleroi by nearly
three lengths. Sellwood rode a more
patient type of race on Hurry Up in
the Canterbury Park Handicap (Ilf.);
one of the tail-enders early, Hurry
Up gradually made up ground to be
within striking distance of the leaders
at the turn; and, finishing strongly,
he won by two and a half lengths
from Sea Spartan, with Cape Neddick
third.
Topweight and favorite for the
Flying Handicap (7if.), The Groom ,
early in the race showed a desire to
bowl along freely. His apprentice
rider R. Williams, however, had been
instructed to settle his mount m
behind the leaders, and this he was
determined to do, come hell or high
water. The Groom was repeatedly
checked, with the result that he was
conceding the leaders an impossible
start over the last half-mile. Hisign
(R. Selkrig), with a big advantage
in the weights, finished gamely to
beat the pacemaker Mine Host by a
half-head, The Groom finishing a
distant third; Hisign had drifted
amazingly in the betting from 5 to 2
out to 9 to 2. After inquiring into
Williams’s handling of the favorite,
the stewards advised the lad to use
more judgment in future in interpret-
ing instructions; they said nothing
about the question of judgment in
giving instructions.
Foxzami, place-getter in both Der-
bies, gave a disappointing performance
to be only fourth in the 9-furlongs
Burwood Mixed; he appeared to have
every chance, but couldn’t raise a gal-
lop in the straight. Possibly Foxzami
needs more racing to bring him to
his top, but his showing against Satur-
day’s poor field was far remote from
his spring form. The Burwood was
won well by Messenger, who, start-
ing at 7 to 1, was, by a couple of
points, the longest-priced winner of
the day; all round, the bookies had
a very poor spin.
**' * *
Apart from the nasty feeling always
aroused by seeing horse and rider
come a cropper, Saturday’s Melrose
Steeple at Moonee Valley was as
good as a three-ring circus. Only
seven of the 15 runners completed
the course without mishap; the
rider of another came off, remounted,
and did actually finish the trip as
the rest were returning to the en-
closure. Jockey S. Hayes was faced
with a long walk home when his
mount, Hostage, tossed him at the
7-furlongs pole and continued solo
after the field, but another riderless
horse, High Flight, fell practically
into Hayes’s lap, and, seizing the
opportunity, he scrambled aboard.
Meanwhile, Hostage, continuing on
his merry way, first completely ruined
the chances of Return, who was the
only one with a chance of running
down the pacemaker Sequence, and
then carried on to scare the daylights
out of the rider of Sequence by creep-
ing un to his girth nearing the post;
actually Hostage was first pa-st the
post. Sequence won. by four lengths
from Return with the consistent Jung
Bahadur third. Altogether the Steeple
was a rare turn.
Punters were less amused when the
10-to-l chance Henley (T. Unkovich)
won the Deep Creek Handicap (13f.)
and the red-hot favorite Lucky Robin
finished “down the track.” The cash
customers turned on a thoroughly
hostile demonstration, though whether
Henley or Lucky Robin was the in-
tended recipient was not quite clear.
Henley, an aptly-named son ot
Pageant-Neap Tide, must have a par-
ticular liking for Moonee Valley—
the record of his. last four runs reads,
first at Moonee Valley, second-last
at Flemington, second-last at Flem-
ington, first at Moonee Valley. Over
the last half-mile of Saturday’s race
Henley and Manakau were cutting at
each other for the lead, Manakau
led into the straight, but, in the run
“But SURELY you noticed whether it bounced back on to
the fairway!”
to the judge, Henley’s 161 b. advantage
in the weights prevailed. Sunhaven
finished solidly for third money.
Another noted Moonee Valley spe-
cialist in High Production (W. Wil-
liamson) won the 6-furlongs Kiata
Handicap—even Bemborough could
scarcely put in the long ’uns as effec-
tively as High Production does coming
with his last-minute run down the
short Valley straight. The Kiata
looked to be between Solray and
Sentiment until High Production came
on*the scene to beat Solray a length.
Coming both from a long way
back, favorite Fordham (W. William-
son) and Derrymore fought out a
fine finish in the Sydenham Handicap
(101.) for three-year-olds. Once again,
however, weight told, Fordham, in
receipt of 111 b., scoring by a head.
Siren Song, who ran third, should be
fit for the fray next time up. Punters
without private transport were able
to face up fairly cheerfully to walking
home in the rain after 7-to-2 favorite
Draftsman (Sam Martin) had made
a neat fist of downing Lord Tanti
and Royal Pageant in the Argyle
Highweight. It will surprise, inci-
dentally, if owner O. R. Porter allows
Royal Pageant to go out at 50 to 1
next time he’s in action.
* * * *
Run at Grafton during last week,
the Clarence River Jockey Club’s
time-honored double of Ramorme
Handicap and Grafton Cup. Un-
fortunately, this year, transport diffi-
culties prevented many owners from
making the trip as they normally
would. The 6-furlongs Ramorme
was won by favorite Brown Cavallo,
with Goldak and Graceful Lad in
the places, while Phos won the Cup
from Werriston King and Northern
Warrior.
* * * *
For Moorefield (before accep-
tances) i
S.T.C. Corinthian Cup: Dusty
Miller, 1; Collisun, 2; Nigeria, 3.
Two-year-old: Golden Tan, 1; Legal
Wig, 2; Niska, 3. Merrylands Mixed
(6f.); Susan, 1; Discard, 2; Irish
Footprints, 3. Auburn Mixed (10f.):
.Barita, 1; Messenger, 2; Royal Re-
ward, 3. Winter Handicap: Brazier,
1 ; Mine Host, 2; Denali, 3. Rcisehill
Handicap: Tamasha, 1; Titanic, 2 ;
Alkestu, 3. Welter: Le Petit Due, 1;
Caribbean, 2; Parrakoola, 3.
* * * *
Weights were issued on Monday
for the major spring doubles, with, as
expected, Carbon Copy all round the
most highly-regarded entrant. Carbon
Copy heads the Metropolitan weights
with 9.7, shares a like topweight with
Howe in the Caulfield Cup, and also
has 9.7 in the Melbourne Cup, m
which Howe has 9.8. Columnist,
with 9.8, tops the Epsom weights.
Of all these, more anon.
* * * *
It will surprise if, in future, inter-
national sportsmen venturing forth
from behind the Iron Curtain are
not accompanied by an armed escort.
After playing at Wimbledon last year
the Yugoslav representative Puncec
decided that he would prefer not to
return, thank you, and now the
Czechs, Drobny and Cermk, have
shown similar good judgment.
* * * *
A feature of this year’s British
Open golf championship was the bad
second rounds returned by the place-
getters. Locke (South Africa) had a
69, 76, 68, 70 and Bradshaw (Ireland)
a 68, 77, 68, 70 for a tie (283); De
Vincenzo (Argentina) was third with
68, 75, 73, 69 (285). In a 36-holes play-
off, Locke won by 12 strokes, shoot-
ing 67, 68 against Bradshaw’s 74, 73.
v * *
Sydney Rugby Union clubs have
no cause for complaint in the no-
transport situation. The Gordon v.
Randwick match at Coogee Oval on
Saturday drew the biggest crowd of
the season. If the crowd turned up
in the hope of seeing something done
about Gordon’s unbeaten record, they
were disappointed; the match was
fairly level-pegging until the last 15
minutes, when the Gordon men, run-
ning riot, added 14 points to their
score to win 17-6. Elsewhere, Drum-
moyne grimly held its possie at the
bottom of the table, obliterated 29-8
by Norths; University skated home
v. Easts, 17-3; Manly tossed Wests,
14-8; and Parramatta had a closish
go with St. George, 19-14.
* * * *
With some of the stars in Sydney
with the Vic. team, the V.F.L. games
on Saturday turned up a couple of
surprises and left “the four” open to
eight clubs. The “big” game was
Collingwood-Melbourne, at Colling-
wood, one of those last-man-standing
affairs in which punches were as fre-
quent as free kicks; at one stage the
crowd threw bottles, though whether
at the umpire, the players or them-
selves wasn’t clear; and whichever,
their aim was lousy. Anyhow, Mel-
bourne prevailed, 10.13-7.16, and now
has a premiership chance. Carlton
and Fitzroy scrambled about most
of the afternoon for the Blues to
sneak home by 9.13 to 9.8, and
Essendon • stopped North’s winning
run, 8.22-6.13. Richmond somewhat
boredly disposed of Hawthorn, 16.21-
9.13, Geelong exploded the Footscray
myth of improvement by 13.15 to 4.10,
and at St. Kilda the locals upset all
precedence by winning against
“Sowth,” 16.15-13.14. Carlton on
top, ’Wood, North and Melbourne
next, then Fitzroy, Essendon, Rich-
mond and Geelong still in it.
* * * *
The Victorian Aussie Rulers drew
over 10,000 to Sydney C.G. on Satur-
day and ran the N.S.W. team ragged
(18.18-9.4) as .expected. It was sup-
posed to be an exhibition of the good
old game at its best —but there is
nothing but farce in one-sided games
of any kind.
**i * *
The Kev Delaney v. Tommy Burns
bout at Sydney Stadium for Burns’s
Australian welter title consisted en-
tirely of Burns floundering round the
ring in continual, if unsuccessful,
pursuit of a will-o’-wisp opponent
who danced and jigged and darted
in and out and bobbed and ran for
15 rounds with all the grace of a
ballerina and the stamina of a
champion harrier. After only a couple
of rounds of it the experts were say-
ing : “He’ll never keep that up.” But
keep it up he did, and won by from
here to Bourke, which is about the
distance he must have covered. After-
wards Burns announced that he was
through with the game.
* * * *
There’s ndarly always something
to ponder over in the boxing at
Leichhardt. An majority
of verdicts given there are vociferously
hooted, and the latest, a points win
for Billy Lord (9.9) over Nipper
O’Brien (9.114), was howled down
with a vengeance. Having height,
reach and weight advantages, O’Brien
continually • beat Lord to the punch
and piled up a points lead in almost
every round.


wmm.
\t
CH
SHMBSr
no
VOOO
S&W&
'‘S&£S**l
vs&sssmm
•* y*j‘*>-‘**c
»ixf:
00/0f 10 0 00000
Mmmmr
Ql % of capital investment has been
returned to original Shareholders in
the Hastings Deering Group in actual
Dividends since 1937.
joe 3
M f
E 3
I ?
(Above) The well-known Hastings Peer-
ing Building, William Street, Sydney.
(Below) The modern steel-framed build-
ing on eight acres of ground on the
Great Western Highway, Lidcombe.
100,000 square feet of working space
without a column: amenities and ser-
vice for 1,000 vehicles: already two-
thirds completed and in full-time
operation.
mm
J' - 7
1 - 1.. .
>'■ v\\ ■ x.
'mwk
11
HASTINGS DEERING BUILDING.
William Street, Sydney.
Crown Street Corner.
’Phone M 0412 (25 lines).
H 4
ISSUE OF 300,000
H(W
ORDINARY SHARES
HASTINGS DEERING
BUILDING LIMITED
®
230,000 OF THE 300,000
ALREADY SUBSCRIBED
NEW ORDINARY SHARES (limited number
70,000) in Hastings Peering Building still
available AT PAR! Early application is advisable!
POST COUPON TO-DAY!
The Secretary, Hastings Deering Building Ltd.,
Box 4333, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please send me prospectus giving full particulars of issue
of New Ordinary Shares in Hastings Deering Building Ltd.
YOUR NAME:
YOUR ADDRESS:
8207.
THE EMERGENGE
OF MR SEERBY
By GEOFF BINGHAM
MR. SEERBY was a
shocker, undoubtedly,
whether seen for the first
time, or any time, for that
matter. Redfaced, as though
suffering perpetual sunburn, a
raging torrid kind of a com-
plexion, in which, were set two
intensely blue eyes, mostly star-
ing, and then above the eyes
white eyebrows, white hair, and
below the red, red nose a white
moustache, lots of it, floating out
over the face —this was Mr.
Seerby, To see him was discon-
certing enough in itself, but to
have him suddenly present him-
self, as fre did to Mr. Rankin
on voting - day, was almost
beyond endurance.
Mr. Rankin, when he looked
up from his clerical duties in the
polling-booth, uttered the one
word “God!”, expressive at any
time, not blasphemy surely, but
surprise and perhaps instinctive
petition. And Mr. Seerby stared
down unforgettably, his rich blue
eyes paralysing the president of
the poll.
SO it was Mr. Seerby came to
Wirril Creek for the first
time, as most thought. Mr.
Rankin mooted abroad the
presence of the stranger, others
discussing the newcomer’s
presence with great gusto, savor-
ing every detail of his yokel
features, but none came quite so
close to adequate description as
Mr. Rankin, who forthrightly
said the man was an
anachronism. Undoubtedly Mr.
Rankin was right, although the
polysyllabic denunciation was
scarcely comprehended. Mr.
Seerby might easily have walked
out of a Steele Rudd story, that
old world of hatters and shy
cow-cockies.
Where did Mr. Seerby live?
Not close to the Creek, certainly,
or he would not have escaped
the busy hum of Creek gossip.
Some said out past Cronin’s
place, and as everything past
Cronin’s place was bush and
timber forest they could easily
have been right. Wherever he
lived, none seemed to know, and
only on Government days of
elections or referendums or the
like did Mr. Seerby emerge from
his fastness to descend upon the
apprehensive Mr. Rankin, and
always there was the red face,
the blue eyes, the white-white
hair, the grey flannel shirt, the
knobbled corduroy trousers and
the heavy farm boots.
There were theories about Mr.
Seerby, his place and manner of
living. One fanciful tale was
that the old fellow was a pros-
pector, although the Lord alone
knew what he would be pros-
pecting out past Cronin’s.
Many occupations he followed,
according to the whims and
fancies of the Creek folk—cattle-
duffer,.rejected lover, this second
naturally leading to misanthrope
—these and more was Mr.
Seerby.
Letters never came for him at
Mr. Harding’s post-office, yet in
some mysterious way he
managed to know polling-days
and would be there to register
his opinion. The possibility of
his possessing a wireless was not
overlooked, but no battery was
ever charged for him at the
Creek garage. No, Mr. Seerby
remained a mystery.
However, truth seeped
through. It was learned that he
had bought Fisher’s old place,
and as this had long been
neglected, and had reverted to
bush, most were contemptuous
of the old fellow’s choice. It
was gleaned, also, that he re-
ceived his supplies by the cream
lorry, the driver dropping them
at the end of Cronin’s place.
That mystery solved, the Creek
folk felt they could relax some-
what, and sigh with a certain
satisfaction. Mr. Seerby was
partly accounted for.
A ND then, one amazing day,
Mr. Seerby was discovered
driving stock through the Creek
village. Windows flew up, cur-
tains were parted, doors opened,
business ceased, loafing had an
intermission, and all stared at the
sight of Mr. Seerby seated upon
a bay pony. Very well he sat
upon it too, his huge yellow hat
waving out from his head, his
moustaches floating about his
face, his right-hand gripping a
stockwhip, and hjs mouth mak-
ing queer encouraging noises to
the plump Hereford steers he
urged before him.
Pat Hickey observed to his
neighbor, Mr. Percival, that they
were damn’ fine beasts. Pat
fingered a hypothetical knife, for
he had been a butcher.
“Nice price they’ll bring,” he
told Mr. Percival.
“Takin’ 'them to Jhe sales,
eh?” said Mr. Percival. “It is
sales today, ain’t it, Pat?”
Pat said it was, and con-
tinued to finger his figurative
knife. “Fancy him rearin’ that
stuff out there," he said won-
deringly.
The Creek agreed Mr. Seerby
was going to the Coolbucca
sales. They also agreed, regret-
fully, that he would obtain an
excellent price for his steers, and
they waited for Mr. Seerby to
return, for there was some vague
conspiracy to find out as much
as possible about Mr. Seerby,
and especially the price he had
received Jfor his stock. The
Wirril Creek folk felt it part of
their duty to know about Mr.
Seerby, and it was on their con-
science for some considerable
time after that they had been un-
able to penetrate past the
dreadful stare of Mr. Seerby on
his return. Hat, whiskers and
bay pony passed through the
Creek in unapproachable silence.
THEN one evening Mr. Seerby
appeared amongst them, at
the Creek’s quarterly meeting
conducted by the Producers’
Association. In particular they
were to be addressed by a Mr.
Gavin Brown, dairy adviser to
the association ; and very bright
and knowledgeable was ■ Mr.
Brown, seated on the hall stage,
ready to disperse his knowledge
as a sower his seed. Great was
the astonishment when Mr.
Seerby, grey flannel and all,
stamped into the hall and seated
himself. Mr. Brown of all
seemed not to suffer any shock.
He even nodded brightly at Mr.
Seerby, but that man refused to
exchange anything but a rigid
stare.
Funny old chap, thought Mr.
Brown, and waited upon the
Creek secretary to introduce his
lecture. Being introduced to all
as “Mr. Gavin Brown, our
well-known instructor,” the ad-
viser rose to speak, and ob-
served in a moment that Mr.
Seerby’s eyes gleamed strangely.
Nevertheless, ne accepted the
audience’s applause gracefully
and proceeded to address them.
“I have taken the trouble to
look around your district,” he
told the farmers, “and feel I
know what the trouble is here.”
The Wirril Creek farmers
looked mildly surprised. Many


j
TIME WILL NOT DULL
YOUR GLOSS
Ten years from now the DULUX used tu
your home will look no more than ten minutes
old—-for “DULUX” once applied will withstand
no end of hard knocks and continuous usage.
“DULUX” is the hardest, most durable finish
obtainable. Easy to use, “DULUX” brushes on
so evenly ... it dries so quickly . . . and retains
its original colour and high lustre longer.
“DULUX” is easy to keep clean, too—just rub
over with a damp cloth. Choose DULUX in
tones to suit your room . . . and your personality.
For general exterior house painting, use
“DULUX” Paint Type 387 Line.
BALM
lIP
THE SYNTHETIC FINISH
Supersedes Enamels and Varnishes
A delightful kitchen. All
furniture and interior surfaces
were finished in "DULUX.’
FREE BOOKLETS
These handy booklets outline very
simply the correct way to apply
"Dulux” to obtain the full benefit
of its durability and beauty. . . .
For YOUR booklets, send to
British Australian Lead Manu-
facturers Pty. Ltd., P.O, Box 21,
Concord. N.S.W.
Products of British Australian Lead
Manufacturers Pty. Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth.
i
FIN’® s
rpPESSEDING ENAMEL
golden cream
COLOUR MAGIC FOLLOWS THE."OULUX
BRUSH
DXX2
years had they lived in the dis-
trict, and in all of them been
unable to locate the trouble.
“Yes,” said Mr. Gavin Brown
firmly, “there should be greater
production in the district.
Better cows, better bulls and all
that, as you know, but above all
better crop production. This
soil needs extensive cropping.”
“Oh,” said Mr. Seerby, stung
into initial articulation.
“Oh,” said Mr. Brown,
equally surprised.
“Wrong,” said Mr. Seerby,
his moustaches cavorting about
his crimson face. “Absolutely
wrong.”
“Ah,” sighed
Mr. Brown. As
adviser he had
met many ob-
stinate people.
“1 venture to
suggest,” he said
mildly, “that all
dairyfarming
must be based
upon cropping.”
“Never,” said
Mr. Seerby
violently. Hi s
whiskers wob-
bled, his eyes
flamed, his en-
tire being stif-
fened obs t i -
nately.
“Oh,” said the adviser gently.
“Then perhaps you could ex-
plain, Mister—er—Mister . .
“Seerby,” said that man.
“Arthur C. Seerby. Explain?
I should say so. Let me tell
you, Mister Brown, that this soil
is much the worse for cropping.”
There was a distinct “Ah!”
which escaped in a sigh from
the entire audience.
“In fact,” continued Mr.
Seerby rumblingly, “too much
soil has been turned over
already. It’s nature we have to
get back to, I say.”
“Scrub, forest and so forth ?V
asked Mr. Brown with gentle
suggestion of irony.
“Exactly,” agreed the amaz-
ing Mr. Seerby. “Else where
are you going to feed the soil,
this dry, hungry soil?” Mr.
Seerby drew in his round
cheeks, sucked and suddenly
spat. His disgust was patent.
“Wirril Creek is worked-out —
almost,” he maintained. “And
now you want to put the plough
into it again.” He snorted,
wagged a finger at the adviser
and said “I tell you this, young
man, that you and your friends
need to learn a thing or two,”
SO it was Mr. Seerby began
his emergence. Had Mr.
Gavin Brown been a less humble
man he might have scoffed at
the amazing Mr. Seerby, classed
him as an ignorant cocky, since
all cockies are ignorant, and so
left it at that, but Mr. Brown
was of the same stuff as your
Earners and the like, and for
that reason listened to the older
man with much respect. After
a time he invited Mr. Seerby
up to the stage, where that en-
thusiastic gentleman continued
his talk, while Mr. Brown
listened, and as he listened de-
light formed within him.
“Mr, Seerby,” he said, when
the meeting had concluded, “I
am proud to have made your
acquaintance. I wonder if you
would care to address some of
my colleagues.”
“I’ll .do that, too,” said Mr.
Seerby. “It’s time you fellows
began to learn something.”
Wirril Creek, then, in be-
wilderment heard that its Mr.
Seerby was listed to address the
Central Executive of Producers’
Association Advisers, and in
even more dazed condition re-
ceived the news that Mr. Seerby,
straw hat and flannel shirt, had
been received with great en-
thusiasm, and that his words
had been reported, not only in
the “Producers’ Weekly Journal”
but in the Sydney dailies and
that Mr. Seerby had threatened
to gain popularity throughout
the other States.
In silence it watched Mr.
Seerby return from the city,
saw him plod along Jones’s
Lane up to Fisher’s old place,
all without one word from him
or return of recognition shown
him. And, for all they knew,
Mr. Seerby might have been
lost again until another polling-
day.
Not so. If Mr. Seerby was
content to retire from brief
glory, then the public would not
have it so. Hot on the heels of
his lecture came a prodigious
mail; letters and papers in
which his lecture had been re-
ported. Also in the mail re-
quests for further lectures.
AND then one fine day a
party of people arrived by
the Northern Express. They
had come from Sydney especially
to interview Mr. Seerby.
They seemed greatly surprised
by the type of country around
Wirril Creek,
disappointed at
the dry hilly
country, for
they had visu-
alised rich river
flats, green and
lush, with wil-
low-hung creeks
and other such
i m probabilities.
One gleam of
hope came to
them when they
caught sight of
Pat Regan’s fine
farm beneath
the hill, but
they were told
that Mr. Seerby
did not live
there. They were taken in the
shuddering belly of the mail-
car to where he lived, and,
indeed, such a load the old
vehicle had not known in many
a year, for beside the young
men and the young woman re-
porter there were cameras and
recording equipment. A truly
wonderful show, and one not
likely to be forgotten by the
Creek for many a day.
Mr, Seerby received them with
indifference, dressed as he was
in his flannels, work-trousers,
heavy boots and yellow hat. He
stared and glared.
One of the young men, never
to be discouraged, said, quite
unnecessarily, “Mr. Seerby?”
“Of course,” said Mr. Seerby.
“We are very surprised,” the
young man ventured, waving an
arm, indicating the dry scrub,
the timbered forests, the scarcity
of good pastures.
Mr. Seerby fixed the young
man with his very blue eyes,
making the reporter quite un-
comfortable.
“What did you expect to find,
young man?” he asked.
“Well, to tell you the truth,
Mr. Seerby,” the reporter be-
began.
“Yes,” said Mr. Seerby. “Ob-
viously you haven’t read my
lectures.” He said no more, and
the young man retired.
The next inquisitor was the
woman reporter from the
“Woman’s Hour.” She gushingly
explained she was from that
famous journal, and how inter-
ested her readers were in Mr.
Seerby, and all he had done.
She nodded towards his slab
hut and said she thought it was
“ducky.” Mr. Seerby appeared
more surprised than delighted.
“And we’d just love to have a
look at your bachelor’s
quarters,” she suggested sweetly,
“and take a few shots, if you
won’t mind.”
Mr. Seerby stared at her for a
moment, turned on his heels,
went to the bachelor quarters,
emerged with a double-barrelled
shot-gun, clicked it into position
and advanced towards the group
of reporters and the representa-
tive of National Radio.
“I think you’d better go,” he
said.
“Now look here,” said the
man from National Radio.
“Lectures if you like,” said
Mr. Seerby, “but no nonsense.”
He glared at the young woman,
who bridled. Mr. Seerby’s
moustaches twitched rapidly.
“I’ll have none of it,” he
wheezed shrilly. “If you want
commonsense, well and good,
but no nonsense, mind!” He
waved the shot-gun as he spoke,
much to the alarm of the in-
quisitorial party.
HT HEREAFTER was Mr.
1 Seerby’s fame assured. The
party was delighted, for it had,
in effect, “created news.” What
material to use, what pratings
about the pioneer spirit, the
tough rtiaterial of this leader of
anew method in farming!
National Radio actually broad-
cast an interview with the old
man, and pointed out that the
country would be reclaimed
in its areas of worn-out land,
that soil-fertility was about to
be renewed, and all because of
the dogged insistence of one
Mr. Seerby.
From lectures, newspaper
articles and radio interviews it
was but a step to a book, and
although Mr. Seerby did not ac-
tually write the book his theory
and practice were therein con-
tained, and Mr. Seerby in col-
laboration was able to receive a
substantial portion of the royal-
ties. He was lauded on every
side as a lover of his country,
as an agricultural peer, the equal
of Farrer almost. Every phase
of his life was exploited; his
struggle on the poor soil was ex-
plained, his restoration of its
fertility lauded, and no paper
worth its salt dared to omit
photographs of his sleek beasts.
Pat Hickey, when he saw the
photographs and the beasts them-
selves, admitted their quality,
but hinted that anyone could
have raised the same stuff by un-
derstocking. But, then, Pat
Hickey had not been called upon
to lecture, and would not have
responded to such a request.
Discounting fame, and thrust-
ing aside his flush of glory, Mr.
Seerby continued to be himself,
his old self, flannel shirt and
white whiskers; nor did he be-
come any more friendly with his
neighbors. Only Mr. Harding
knew how many cheques had
come to Mr. Seerby for lectures
and articles, and royalties from
a book on the restoration of
soil-fertility, and Mr. Harding,
being a public servant, kept the
secret to himself.
I T came as a great shock, how-
i ever, to hear that Mr. Seerby
was moving from Wirril Creek.
He had bought a rich river-flat
farm on the Coolbucca, two hun-
dred acres of the finest alluvial
country, and every acre worth
eighty pounds.
Of course it could not be true,
The very suggestion was laughed
at, the positive veracity of it
scorned, its authenticity scoffed,
but laughing and scorning and
scoffing did not prevent the final
emergence of Mr. Seerby from
Fisher’s old place, or his trium-
phal passage through the Creek
village seated upon his bay
pony, and driving before him his
flourishing fat-stock until finally
the Creek saw the last of Mr.
Seerby, a wide-brimmed straw
hat raised above the oscillating
rump of a bay pony.
Then Mr. Harding’s commend-
able reserve broke, He told his
astonished listeners of the tre-
mendous amount of money to be
made by writing and talking, and
being in the limelight. Much
more, he explained, than by
working hard, and it was true,
ever so true, that Mr. Seerby
was now the owner of a fine
Coolbucca property.
From then on, of course, the
popularity of Mr. Seerby de-
clined. His period of publicity
ceased, although, probably, his
royalties still continued to come
in, but his fame as a pioneer and
a straggler died. True, there
were those who vilified him for
deserting his former cause and
contenting himself with farming
in ease.
But such vilifiers missed the
very core and essence of the
Seerby theory, which was that by
turning a worn-out farm to bush,
by dwelling upon it, however
humbly, by toiling amid loneli-
ness and solitude, one may be
able, through judicious expres-
sion of circumstance, to achieve
results so rich and fertile as to
amaze one’s very neighbors.


if you
WERE
THERE
Vbuwelf..
mm
F t, i
i MiS.-
m
Wi
*x®i
»V V J
$ ;y. !< /■• v '^ : ;:. M
W$BM il >v
m
fc*3«
5.:-5
• • • your wool could receive
no greater attention, for A.M.L.&F. experts are at work
in your interests at every stage-valuing, lotting and
displaying your wool to the best advantage. You are
®Ejsri3 poMihle pri “ *.
your wool!
.
86 Yenrs in the Service of fhe Man on the Laid
INC. IN ENGLAND, 186 £ 2
AMLT
AUSTRALIAN, MERCANTILE, LAND & FINANCE COY. LTD
4 BUGH STREET. SYDNEY
AND AT MELBOURNE AND BRISBANE.
Garah, Wee Waa, Brewarrina. Q’ld: Townsville
Charleville, St. George, Cunnamulla, Dirranbandb 4ssoc Aeents’
S = NewcadtlcvWagga. Henty, Hay, Cowra.
atcßDie & Co. Pty., Ltd., Toowoomba, Oakey, Dalby and Pittsworth.
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
- ■•••■ is**
Ml
IIM
m
hi
m
in
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
BOOM-ONI/T BATES
Single Booms—
From 8/- per night
Double Booms—
From 15/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
"METROPOLEr
Sydney.
Telephones:
8W2061 (9 lines)
“HANDY HINTS
FOR THE FARM”
Embracing Wheat, Sheep, Cattle, Pigs, Poultry, Horses, Fruit
and Vegetable Growing, the Apiary and General Farm Activity.
Price 1/- from Newsagents, or l/2£ posted from
Bulletin Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
DON;T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.
Fleece Exhibits.
“Murrawong”: It would not
be fair to ask a woolgrower
from the far west to compete
•with a clean Yass fleece in such
a show (B. 137 7/*49). There
could be a section for the red
western wools, one for the pink
central types, the north-west
could have its section and the
clean, late - shearing districts
could have theirs. These refer
to N.S.W., but each State would
have its own subdivisions. While
odd samples of wool from
various parts of Australia are to
be seen in technical museums,
the writer cannot claim to have
seen or heard of any typical col-
lection of fleeces from all Aus-
tralia. Such an exhibit would
not only interest visitors, but
would be an education to the big
majority of woolgrowers,
students and all interested in any
aspect of the wool industry.
Hundreds of visitors to
Sydney Royal Show at Easter
have asked, “But where are the
sheep?” They have been told
that there is no room for them,
and that the only evidence of the
existence of our sheep and wool
industry lies in the district
exhibits. At the range these
fleeces are seen by visitors they
might just as well be cotton or
kapok.
As a suggestion, here are two
things that would open the eyes
of any visitor. (1) A competi-
tion for ( a ) the heaviest fleece
(Merino) grown within 12
months under paddock condi-
tions and based on clean-scoured
yield, and (b) for the fleece (any
breed) of highest commercial
value—showing that value in
£ s. d. (2) The spectacle of a
big wether fleece, unskirted,
thrown out as for skirting. I
have never yet encountered any-
one surveying the area occupied
by a fleece who did not regard
it as incredible. While woolmen
will appreciate the finer points
of character, length of staple and
style of a fleece, we need points
like those suggested to attract
and to impress the man in the
street.
Polls for the North.
“C. Punch”; Emmanuel
Bros., of the Gogo group of
stations in the Kimberleys,
have been breeding Poll Short-
horn bulls for use in their
herds for many years. Recently
a draft of 450 bullocks from
their herds was sold in Fre-
mantle as fats. This entailed a
long overland trek to Derby,
whence they had seven days on
a ship to Fremantle, where the
draft averaged £32 18s. Quality
and breeding of the cattle im-
pressed all who saw them. It
was another illustration of the
quality of Poll Shorthorns, to-
gether with their ability to stand
up to hard conditions.
In the Kimberleys the breed
has proved eminently suitable,
and leading cattlemen such as
the Duracks, Copleys, Mac-
Donald, of Fossil Downs, and
others have all turned to the
Poll Shorthorn. Bligh, of
Mount House, has established a
small killing works, whence his
beef is air-freighted to Wynd-
ham, the first experimental air-
lift of beef in any quantity in
Australia. He has been using
Poll Shorthorn bulls for some
time, and his beef has graded a
big percentage of first-class;
his steers killing out excep-
tionally well.
Movement of cattle from the
Kimberleys by ship has reached
some 18,000 to 20,000 per year,
"It’s special ‘jelly’ I get from the C.5.1.R."
and the Poll Shorthorn, with its
first-class beef, quietness when
travelling and at watering and
the absence of bruising or horn
wdunds when confined on ship,
has made a name for itself.
Boars and Sows.
“Mr.”: Inherited capacity for
high fertility alone won’t ensure
production of large litters ; many
cases of low fertility can be
traced to deficiency in the diet —
quantity, quality or both.
To get the best out of the boar
he |Will need sufficient food to
keep him in good fleshy condi-
tion. The sow, after rearing her
litter, should be given enough
food to bring'her quickly into
firm condition in preparation for
the next farrowing.
Feed all breeding stock either
separated milk, buttermilk, meat
or meat-meal and chopped
green fodder (if not on pasture)
with their cereal. If less than
two gallons of milk is fed each
pig daily, a lime supplement
(four parts ground limestone to
one part of salt) will be needed.
Feed this either in the meal (loz.
per pig) or from a sheltered
trough. Segregate the boar from
the sows, except for controlled
services. It helps maintain his
fertility.
Winter Tomatoes.
“Rooster”; There’s a fortune
waiting for the grower who can
successfully ripen those late
green tomatoes which are usually
left to rot in the paddocks.
According to the Victorian
“Journal of Agriculture” this
can be done at a reasonable cost.
In southern States tomatoes cease
to ripen with the onset of wintry
weather.
The general idea is the con-
struction of a ripening-room
where temperature, light and
ventilation are adjusted to a suit-
able combination of ripening
conditions. Naturally, tempera-
ture controls the rate of coloring.
It appears that 60deg. F. is the
minimum, and. 65deg. F. the
maximum. Sufficient, but con-
trolled, ventilation permits of a
hastening process, with tempera-
tures up to 75deg. if necessary.
Greatest drawback is moisture
condensation on the fruit, which
would eventually rot them.
Light also is essential, preferably
sunlight. Where glass-roofs and
windows are not used, electric
light can be utilised, but results
are not so good.
According to the condition of
the fruit and the controlling
factors in the ripening-room, the
tomatoes will ripen to a stage
of saleability in from five days
to a fortnight. The type of room
suggested, where high cost pre-
cludes the installation of a fully-
insulated glasshouse with auto-
matic heat-control, etc., is of the
skillion design, with glass-roof
sloping towards the north. Front
and side walls are of cement
sheets, or some other suitable
material; height about 4ft., with
glass 2ft. above. The back wall
doesn’t require glass, but a 6m.
flooring-board should be let in at
the top of the back wall and
fastened by hinges at the top
of board, and a similar board
near the bottom on the opposite
side, to control the ventilation.
Artificial heating is supplied
with a “blue-flame” kerosene-
stove with flue piping to extend
around three sides of the room.
Since it is claimed that up to
500 cases of tomatoes can be
ripened, at the small cost of
fd. per hour, with this set-up, it
appears to be worth trying.
Oil-consumption.
“Radian”: Worn inlet-valve
guides will cause excessive oil-
consumption—a factor fre-
quently overlooked and one
which has caused arguments in
the past. I proved this on an
engine which persisted in oiling
up plugs in No. 1 and No. 3
cylinders, although rings and
walls were known to be in good
order. Examination showed that
valve-guides in the defaulting
cylinders were badly worn, while
others were reasonably good.
New valves and guides were
fitted to all cylinders with the
exception of No. 3, in which the
original valves were cleaned and
ground in ; but the guides were
not disturbed. The engine was
then assembled and worked for
several days on normal load,
during which time No. 3 plug
still gave trouble, while No. 1
was quite free of oil.
Most modern engines have a
very high intake vacuum, and it
stands to reason that oil vapo
which would otherwise return
the sump as liquid, must 1
drawn into the combustio
chamber unless sealed off by t
valve-guides—a sticky mass o;
carbon under inlet-valve heads
fair indication of this fault.
Evils of Overstocking.
“Longjon”; McMaster, o:
Dalkeith (N.S.W.), affirms th
overstocking of Australia
grazing lands is the greatest evi
of the present time. He pra
tises the same reserve stockin
he advocates for others. A
though Dalkeith consists o:
36.000 acres, he runs on
15.000 stud Merinos,'l7oo “Her
fords and a small Hereford stuc
so no one can accuse him o]
flogging his pastures.
McMaster holds that fiv
sheep getting enough of th
best food will produce mor
wealth than eight sheep shor
of food. He believes th
proper stocking of pasture
is the only way to comba
weeds, as weeds thrive best o
overstocked land. But most im
portant of all is that reserv
stocking prevents soil erosion
and is most valuable for it
effect on the replenishment o
springs and creeks. One creel
in the Cassilis district used to
come down in flood after Sin
of rain, but now it floods affe
lin. because farmers high up
stream, near, its source, have
neglected the soil, and the water
now runs off too quickly.
Machme Maintenance.
“The Expert”: With the in
creasing popularity of the
electric-type shearing-gear, it is
well to remember that there is
little maintenance that can be
attempted by the layman. This
is especially the case where alter-
nating-current (A.C.) motors are
employed. Then a qualified
electrician should be called
upon in the event of trouble.
Direct-current (D.C.) motors
can be serviced to a certain
extent by the owner, but if the
job is beyond you don’t hesitate
to call on the electrician. In-
expert probing with a screw-
driver or washing with kerosene
can ruin the winding.
Generally the first sign of
trouble from a D.C. motor is
sparking in the brushes, which
indicates faulty seating on the
commutator. If allowed to con-
tinue it will result in damage to
the commutator that can only be
corrected in a machine-shop.
Incorrect seating of brushes can
be caused by an accumulation of
grease on the commutator, the
brushes sticking in the holders,
the ends of the brushes being
incorrectly shaped, or a damaged
or dirty commutator.
After removing the brush-
cover, wipe the commutator with
a clean rag dipped in petrol; this
will remove any accumulation
of grease. Next examine the
commutator; if it is discolored
(normal color is a clean bronze
or copper) it will require clean-
ing. Take a strip of fine
(00 grade) sandpaper the same
width as the commutator, and
with the cutting-side against
segments spin the armature un
an e ven bronze color appea
If the surface of the segments
pitted, the sparking has bee
occurring for some time, and t
armature must be removed an
the segments turned in a latl
pie local garage can general
handle this job.
If the commutator is clean an
m good condition, examine
brushes and brush - holder
Clean the holders with a clea
rag dipped in petrol, and mak
sure that the brushes slide easi
in them. Examine the brus
faces they should be smooth
shiny with a concave surface,
dull or chipped at any point the
must be refitted. To do th
place a strip of 00-gauge sane
paper slightly wider than th
brushes around the commutato
with the cutting-side out, anc
allow the brushes to rest on th
sandpaper under their ow
spring tension. Turn the arma
ture in its direction of rotatio
until the face of the brushes
evenly marked. Run the moto
for a few minutes (it will spar
a little at first), and if the job i
satisfactory the sparking wl
have been eliminated.
Rabbit-control.
“Atlanta”: A N.S.W. stud
manager reports success in con
trolling rabbits by destroyinj
burrows with a heavy tractor anc
big ripper. He also has two
horse-teams working continu
ously with single-furrow tank
ploughs. In open country which
has been ploughed he is using
rotary hoe, which churns the
ground to a fine dust and can
penetrate to a depth of more
than 18in., burying rabbits in
their burrows.
Over 1000 have been yarded in
single drives during early morn-
ing and day, and catches of 500
to 600 by this method are
common. As many as 10,000 to
12,000 carcasses have been sent
in a month from the property to
the freezing-works at 18d. per
pair. Yet, despite destruction of
all burrows, there are still
numerous homeless rabbits.
The property is netted and
sub-netted, but where boundary-
fences cross swamps or ground
that holds more than average
moisture, netting rots at ground-
level, and until it can be re-
placed rabbit-control is a hope-
less task.
Rabbits cannot be controlled
without netting or poison. Rip-
ping or bulldozing of burrows
is effective on small holdings or
with isolated warrens, but is
useless on more extensive
properties.
Tyre Care.
“Kawalla”: Watch your driv-
ing and your tyre life will in-
crease. Fast acceleration strains
both tube and cover. Sudden
braking increases the friction be-
tween tyre and road, thus skim-
ming a layer of rubber from the
treads every time you brake
fiercely.
Watch road surfaces. Un-
rolled metal will leave your tyres
with countless tiny cuts if you’re


fl FINE HOTEL
A hotel, certainly one of Sydney’s
leading hotels, hut different to
every other In many things. The
Wentworth, for instance, has ever
teen noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too,
while away from the noisei and
hustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
IHt WEHTWORTH
LPt
s.
r"7
"Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan. Managing Director
Nu-METAL
SAVES
ENGINE NEW
REBORE RINGS
Just pour RE-NU Liquid NU-METAL
through plug holes. NU-METAL will re-
condition your motor while you drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles, and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL has been proved and
tested by over 100,000 users since 1934,
many owners having used NU-METAL
three and four times in the same engine.
NU-METAL comes to you in a separ-
ate tube for each cylinder, thus eliminat-
ing guess work. Municipal Councils,
Engineers, etc., use NU-METAL. Treatment
costs for 1,4, 6, 8 cylinders, 10/6, 30/-;
37/6, 45/-. Call, write, or phone MA7250.
Mail Orders post free. C.O.D.’s plus
Postal Charges.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return NU-
METAL to treat a Cylinder Engine.
1 enclose Cheque—P.N.
Or please send me illustrated Folder
describing action of NU-METAL.
Name
Address
*. B. 20/7/M9
BRISTOL, TRADING COMPANY
Ist Floor, Bristol House,
147 Elizabeth Street. Sydney. MA 7250.
NO BITE OR BURti!
The British BUTTNER Pipe
with highly porous ceramic filter.
No breaking-in, bite, burn, wet
dottle or waste.
Price, 19/G, post free.
Illustrated leaflet on request.
Sole Australian Distributors: '
Charles Whetton Pty. Ltd.,
156 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs— No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L.
Barrere brings to rupture sufferers an
entirely new method of control, the
result of 40 years’ practice and im-
provements, proved completely suc-
cessful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the
hand when placed flat upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, hold the intestine
in its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE,
BARKERS DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 26g), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
For Sale.
£lOO,OOO worth of properties for sale
in the greatest farming centre in Queens-
land, including Mary River scrub and
river properties. Call, write or ’phone.
Further particulars, C. A. WASHINGTON,
74-76 Mellor Street, Gympie. ’Phone 699.
PRISMATIC
COMPASSES
For use in marking boundaries,
lining fences and taking bearings.
MARK 111 Liquid £B/10/-
(, Illustrated )
MARK IX Dry. .
Also surveyors’ instruments,
clinometers j hand and
dumpy' levels.
£3/10/■
j
j
AND SONS
PTY. LTD.
ĵ
Write for
particulars.
LANES
DOC
TRAPS
V I
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
j
8" Jaws
Folding Springs
OBTAINABLE FROM
ALL STORES &
PASTORAL SUPPLY HOUSES
TTZ.B
“THE AUSTRALIAN WOMAN’S MIRROR"
Stories, Knitting, Crochet, Mothercraft, Recipes, Health
Talks, Pattern Service, Piccaninnies Pages.
Published Weekly, All Newsagents. Price 3d.
TILLEY. LAMPS
WATCH FOR—
HAPPY’’ MANTLES
THIS ENTIRELY NEW AND PATENTED
FEATURE OF GENUINE “TILLEY” MANTLES
WILL SURPRISE AND DELIGHT YOU.
NO MORE FIDDLING
WHEN FITTING!!
SUPPLIES ARE NOW ON THE WAY TO
AUSTRALIA FROM OUR FACTORY.
ASK YOUR LOCAL DEALER OR. IF IN ANY
DIFFICULTY, WRITE TO OUR AUSTRALIAN
REPRESENTATIVES:—
T. H. BENTLEY, Pty. Ltd.
123-125, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE. C.l.
LAMPS
REGD.
THE TILLEY LAMP COMPANY LTD. OF ENGLAND
careless. A speed of 8 m.p.h. in
low gear will obviate these cuts,
but 15 m.p.h. or over in top will
always cause damage. Watch
tyre pressures, and maintain
them evenly all round at
the manufacturer’s specification.
Under-inflation accelerates wear.
Overinflation is less dangerous.
A tyre-gauge is essential.
Periodically examine the tyres
inside and out to remove pieces
of grit, metal, etc. Clean the
cuts with petrol and fill with the
special solution available for the
purpose. Damage is caused by
rusty rims. Rust-flake penetrates
covers, so clean out all rust and
apply quick - drying enamel.
With old-type wheels a wide
layer of tape inside the rim is
a trouble-saver. Never lift an
old patch with a knife. Smear
patch with petrol, light it,
and the moment it sizzles extin-
guish the flame. The patch will
then peel off easily.
N.S.W. Tobacco.
“He-Ne”: Any doubts about
the suitability of Tenterfield
(N.S.W.) soil for tobacco-grow-
ing should be dispelled by the
success gained at Brisbane sales.
Tenterfield leaf was comparable
with any other Australian
tobacco, and made well over the
average price. About 240 tons
were offered; top price was
108 d. per lb. and the average
about 45d. per lb., and growers
had no trouble in disposing of
all medium- to good-quality
leaf.
Soil has a big influence on
tobacco culture, and the
granite soils of the Tenterfield
district suit it well. Geyer Bros,
grew tobacco for the first time
this year and got over a ton of
leaf from a little over two acres.
They averaged 67d. per lb., and
their top price for five bales
was 82d. per lb. Another
Tenterfield grower, R. C. Mel-
ling, made about the same
average. These results should
prove a stimulus to Tenterfield
farmers and more than justify
the' confidence officers of the
N.S.W. Department of Agricul-
ture have in the district as a
tobacco-producer.
As the Tenterfield district has
demonstrated over the past two
years its suitability for tobacco-
growing, the Commonwealth
Government could develop the
industry by encouraging both
soldier-settlers and approved
migrants to take up land there
for tobacco-growing.
Ducks.
“Mr.”: For breeding select
only well-grown birds free of
deformities and not closely re-
lated, and don’t pen more than
six or eight ducks with each
drake. Keep feed away from
the ducklings for the first 36
hours, then give them a wet
mash (crumbly consistency)
made in the following proper*
tions: 601 b. of pollard, 311 b. of
bran, 51b. of meatmeal, 31b. of
bonemeal and lib. of salt.
Moisten the mash with skim-
milk and feed four times a day
for the-first three weeks.
From then on until the
youngsters are six weeks old
increase the meatmeal quota by
50 per cent. —ducklings need
large quantities of protein. Put
out mash at the morning and
midday feeds and soaked grain
(wheat or wheat and barley) in
the afternoon. From six weeks
give them a morning and an
evening feed only, one of mash,
the other of soaked grain. Give
the birds ample quantities of
greenstuff (in bulk equivalent to
two-thirds of the mash and
grain); or a vitaminised oil
(5000 A, 500 D rating) 1 per cent,
of the total feed.
Muscovies will be ready to
market at 13 to 16 weeks;
Aylesburys and Pekins at 10 to
12 weeks.
Hints for the Farm.
“Myrrhee”: Collect scions
for grafting any time from June
to August, the later the better,
and heel them into the ground
in a cool, moist place. If they
start to grow pull them out and
lay them on the surface for a
few days (but not in the sun).
Take the scions from the best
trees —those bearing good crops
of high-quality, true-to-type
fruit. Use only well-matured
annual shoots up to iin. thick.
“Rooster”: There is little or
no activity by cabbage-grubs
during winter, but sporadic
warm spells may cause them to
become active. . Routine dust-
ings may be lessened, but
should be applied at once if any
grub damage is noticed. In any
case, cabbage aphis often sud-
denly appears in winter. At the
first sign it should be controlled
by dusting with nicotine or
H.E.T.P. sprays.
“Billjim”: If autumn-saved
pasture is used for winter feed-
ing of dairy cows they should
graze it for about an hour a
day, and in addition should re-
ceive 201 b. of silage and 41b. to
61b. of hay. If this pasture is
not available feed as much* hay
as they will eat, not less than
101 b. plus 201 b. of silage. Where
some grazing is available silage
may be omitted.
“Myrrhee”: Although they
don’t need pruning every year
citrus-trees benefit from thin-
ning-out. In a declining tree this
often means a renewal of its
vigor; sunlight and air can get
through, reviving growth on
long-dormant internal limbs. The
vigorous grower can do with an
occasional pruning to maintain
shapeliness, and remove those
strongly-growing vertical shoots
which absorb food material
needed by the more fruitful,
horizontal shoots. Prune in
spring after the worst frost
period has passed.
“M.”: Spray woolly aphis in
July or August (the colonies are
more accessible then) using a
gallon of red oil in 15gal. of
water. Apply at high pressure to
penetrate the clusters.
“Billjim”: To eradicate cape
tulip, correctly-timed cultivations
or grubbing of isolated patches
and repeat sprayings with kero-
sene and waste-oil emulsion are
recommended. Cultivations are
best made in mid-June or late
July and in mid-August. Spray-
ing is recommended at the same
periods. Dense stands of the
weed will require about 250 gal-
lons per acre. Hold spray close
to the ground to allow the mix-
ture to soak into the ground.
“Wilco”: A woman removed
all residue oil from a tin by in-
verting the tin over small scraps
of burning newspaper. Every
little while the tin was slightly
lifted and more newspaper fed
in. When burning was done the
sides of the tin were a bit
blackened, but a wash in clean
water removed that.


HUNTER
CIGARETTES
/
/
1.
%
4
m
i
mSßmm.
sPi ijMiH
.< - ' v >
rs mmm
i .
%
m
£8
"‘■-v. '
faveaHunW
... and again smoke
a favoured blend
2'9 for 20
EVERYWHERE
DISTRIBUTORS MAURICE NEWSTEAO PTY. LID. Bo CASTLEREAGH STREET.
THE “WILD CAT” MONTHLY
Economic, Market and Financial Conditions.
Company Accounts and Mining Activities.
Price: 2/- per single copy—22/6 a year, post free.
Grime
does
......
m
»*•
0m- |li
««
Pay
mmm
»»»
%
s
W&&
m
*W >?
VACUUM
ouflurr PRoouci
Keep your
Engine Clean
with
A clean engine gives perfect
lubrication improved perform-
ance, longer engine life, quicker
starting and complete protection
at all speeds and temperatures.
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD.
MOBILOIL
M 492
CHARD
PROTECTA
StU Rigu
TILL
Suitable for every type of business M record*
all Sales. Credits. Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing In appearance. Send for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing A genu
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE .
ADELAIDE
PERTH «
W. C Penfold & Co. Pty. Ltd.
, Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
, Vardon A Sons Ltd.
# Docket Book Co. lAOIU
A Short Story
Just a Suspicion
By “COL M.”
ON the rise at the south end
of Nimbala, where the
road pauses for a look
back at the village before
it plunges on towards the city,
stood two strangers. They
waved at the cloud of dust chas-
ing a green car over the crest,
turned and headed down to-
wards the village.
From that alone Mrs. Ives the
postmistress had little to go on,
and the fact that they were
dressed as city men was a further
complication. The men turned
off the road into Old Horace's
drive and started along it to-
wards his dairy. Veterinary
men! She went on sorting her
mail.
When Horace had declared his
herd well and truly milked.
Cliffy was allowed to come down
for the mail.
“Old Wirewhiskers has taken
on two new’ns,” said Cliffy.
“Told him they were tramps.
Said they’d come through on the
fruit truck. Too well-dressed for
tramps. Big fat blokes.”
Mrs, Ives saved all the con-
founding information to go with
the corned-beef that night at
dinner as a substitute for cab-
bage, On hearing it, her husband
chewed on in silence. Then he
asked a question;
“You’re sure they got out of
a green sedan. Was it a Ford
like Robby’s?”
“Yes, it was like his.”
* “Oh . ~”
SOME distance north of
Nimbala there is a big town
gripped in a fist of mountains.
There, if you knew the Open
Sesame of two soft knocks and
a rattle, you could enter a cer-
tain establishment on a Satur-
day afternoon, read the names of
racehorses on boards, their
weights, their jockeys; you
could invest your shirt and lose
it in comfort —a popular con-
cern it was, and many viewed
sadly its sudden liquidation.
It is told that the barrier was
being lowered at Randwick, the
radio was as clear as a bell for
a change, and the patrons were
bowed in study, when in walked
six gentlemen nobody had ever
seen before. They had large feet
and the rest is common know-
ledge. Total financial losses of
the thirty accused on that Satur-
day afternoon were paralysing.
The six gentlemen who had
wrought this havoc quit town in
a green Ford sedan.
Bert Ives rose from his chair,
picked up the current “doubles”
sheet and a stray betting-list and
tucked them carefully away in
a drawer. He agreed with his
wife that next Saturday after-
noon would be an ideal time for
her to take the trip to the beach
which she had been promising
herself for years. Then he went
out in the cool with his pipe to
think.
NEXT morning, before Bert
left for his garage up in
“South” —the branch of the vil-
lage that owned the pub—Mrs.
Ives, called him in from the
\froodheap. The grocer was
there, too, well up in the facts
and armed with a pair of field-
glasses which the three of them
swapped like Cyclops’ eye.
The two strangers were work-
ing on a piece of Horace’s hill-
side that overlooked the road.
They had taken off their coats,
but the grocer still maintained
that they looked even tonier
than the chap on the cover of
the pamphlet issued by the
Little Atlas Fem-Hook Com-
pany.
The man in the suit, who had
started by making great golfing
swipes at the bracken, subsided
remarkably quickly. The other,
who was to be admired for it,
had scorned the ferns and was
thrashing about in some black-
berries. When he struck a rocky
patch they could see his wrists
jarring, and even seemed to hear
the steel-chips snapping off the
blade-edge.
Bert went to work, the grocer
went back to his raisins, and
Mrs. Ives started sorting the
morning mail. But the glasses
remained, and by lunch-time
most of Nimbala had dropped in
for a look and the facts.
'T' HAT evening when Bert Ives
I closed his garage at “South”
he headed across to the pub, and
let it be known that a couple of
strangers had been wickedly
bruising Old Horace’s berries
and ferns. He told the story of
their coming; and shared his
surmises on their possible pro-
fession. He suggested caution
to those* in “South” concerned.
A little while later, thirsty and
bedraggled, the strangers entered.
The inrpates regarded them over
a camouflage of froth. It was not
long before someone started
conversing in the vein known
locally as fishing.
“I like the look of Vagabond
for the handicap on Saturday.”
“I know one better that’s beat
him over the same distance,
same weight ...”
And so it went on, and just
as Old Fred was shaking his
white head preparatory to mak-
ing his customary address on
Manolive, one of the strangers
bit.
“I’ve got one for Saturday
myself,” he said. “Do you
happen to know where I might
get a bet on?”
Bert looked at him in amaze-
ment.
“A bet? Here? You can’t get
a bet here, mate, so you can
Too small of a place.”
Harry the barman made t
fairly correct addition that t
only loose money in the distr
was passed in nightly instahnen
across this very counter. Aft
a couple of beers the strange
left, but the game went on f
nearly a fortnight and th
attempted far and wide to pla
a bet.
NOW, it is generally w
known that Old Horae
who doesn’t smoke or drink
nothing more lethal than h
water and salt on rising—has
absolute hatred for anything i
do with horses that race, “foo!
who watch them” and tl
“criminals who ride them.”
Whether a hint that O
Horace might be able to accom
modate them had been droppe
by some mischief-maker,
whether they did it of their ow
accord, is not actually know
but it is generally agreed thai
they must have mentioned the
desire to the old boy—nothin
else could account for th
shouts, the profanity, the cow
kicking in the bails that nigh
or the manner in which th
strangers later arrived at th
pub, clothes hanging out o
their suitcases, or their an
nouncement that they had t
push on, that they only awaitec
the arrival of Donnaly’s bus.
Bert Ives watched them
drinking their farewell beer, anc
then he turned to look at a littl
fellow who had just come in and
dropped his swag on the floor
Bert moved over to his side anc
talked to him quietly, slippec
him a shilling and then, control
ling a grin, made his way bad
to the counter. The little swag
man paid for his beer am
sidled up to the strangers.
“Excuse me,” he said. “I’m
new here. Could you tell me
where I can get a bet on?”
T 1 HE bar went quiet.
1 One of the strangers
looking carefully around at the
faces turned his way, began in
a clear voice:
“Well, to tell you the truth
mate, on first sight, this is the
non-bettingest town you could
strike —you feel you’d do better
in a morgue. But if you keep
at it long enough trying to
locate any possible bags you’ll
end up with the hazy suspicion
that the place is loaded with
’em. Now, we’ve only been
here about a fortnight; we
might put you on the wrong
track anyway, you could
check with a few of the folk
who live here. I don’t think
you could do much better than
trying the grocer down at the
village, or the postmistress’s
husband, who I see here pre-
sent at the bar. If you want to
bet up here in ‘South,’ the baker,
the bootmaker and one or two
others might be interested. This
is all just a suspicion, mind you,
but I think that there is only
one man in the district who
would definitely not oblige, and
he would if horses had horns.
“You could try any-of them,
mate, but take my advice and
don’t leave it too long. I hear
the local magistrates are run-
ning a competition on the num-
ber isf s.p. merchants they skin.
They could get a carpet of pelts
out of this place.”
Donnaly’s bus rattled up and
the two men departed.
They are still “the strangers,”
and are remembered in the bar
nearly every evening. “What
were they, anyway?” is a sub-
ject for fairly consistent debate.
Although they’ve been gone
for t nearly two months you
haven’t been able to lay a bet in
the place since.


IN VALUE!
1
a
L
m
ait-ride
/00ZAe/sAraS/a/9 ... dAa/np/bes of Me ifyac/
A PRODUCT OF THE OLYMPIC TYRE & RUBBER CO. LTD. MiM
t^Ortty|
SMOKERS
PIPE TOBACCOS THAT ARE
BLENDED TO GIVE
SATISFACTION TO ALL.
HOUSE OE MURPHY. A blend of
tbe highest grade of leaf to give a
cool smoke of satisfaction that men
prefer.' 22/- per lb. Posted.
A.A.A. HIIXTOP, A blend of
Australian, American and African.
20/- per lb. Posted.
WINSTON BEADY RUBBED
CIGARETTE TOBACCO. Greatly
improved by better blending of
mature leaf. 24/- per lb. Posted.
Special Quotes to Retailers for lot* £olb.
weight or over «
Write to: Cash Order Dept.,
Hillman Trading Co.,
Coßwnercial Road, Brisbane.
Postage paid on Cash with order.
Postage extra on C.O.D, Order*.
My Line Must Be Out of Order!
h
te
•■-m
m
[ SORRY to BE SO STRAIGHT )
\ FROM TOE SHOULDER., \
[ BUT SOMEBODY SHOULD )
‘tellYOU. PETE, bsnlf
YOUR BESTLINE
TO DIAL OUR Efc, SU
DENTIST) I. m
WENDY, YOU
DON'T MEAN
THAT I • • •
NOTHING SENSATIONAL
ABOUT THAT, PETE! •••• ■
toe trouble about your
Tine'isthatyour one-
AND-ONLY
DRAWS TOE jjßfil'M .
LINE AT
BAD f
BREATH. 1 1
1 SAY. WENDY, I DON E
SEEM TO MAKE THE t
RIGHT CONNECTION
these days! all I
RATE ISA BUSY SIGNAL
- ORA CUT-OFF! .
v( .
LATER - Thanks to Colgats Denial Cream
TO COMBAT BAD BREATH I
■ZZsT'JJf [RECOMMEND COLGATE DINIALCREAM
FOR SCIENTIFIC TESTS PROVE THAT IN
NOW PETES LINE
IS WORKING FINE !
7 OUT OF 10 CASES.COLQAIES
mstAumy stops bad breath
THAT ORIGINAJE3
IN THE MOUTH ! .aiFTjEc)
31
SS
tip l
S
HERE'S WHY: COLGATE DENTAL CREAM HAS
AN ACTIVE PENETRATING FOAM THAT GETS INTO
HIDDEN CREVICES BETWEEN TEETH—HELPS CLEAN
OUT DECAYING FOOD PARTICLES AND SO RE-
MOVES THE. CAUSE OF MUCH UNPLEASANt
BREATH, AND COLGATE'S POLISHING AGENT
CLEANS ENAMEL THOROUGHLY.GENTLY. SAFELY!'
COLGATE DENTAL CREAM
Cleans your breath while
GIANT 27-
LARGE L/3i
teeth
cleans
your
REMEMBERH
TWICE A DAY AND BEFORE EVERY DATE
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM’S No. I cup
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“Youth wanted to learn gardening.
Very god prospects.”
— Advt. in local paper.
Olympic standard, almost.
•b 4* “h
“Just as he was reaching down to
kiss her there was a knock at the
door.” —Short story.
He evidently rang the bell in
advance.
4* 4*
“F. Puncec (Yugoslavia) beat W. C.
Choy (China), 6-4, 6-2, *6-10.”
—Sydney “Sun.”
The loser was only half ex-
tended at the finish.
“Hats are probably the most
dangerous articles of feminine attire.”
— Woman’s paper.
Many women completely lose
their heads over them.
Weight Off the Mind.
, “A woman physiologist announces
a way for any matron with bridge-
table spread to regain a girlish figure
by lying down and thinking of exer-
cise.” —Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
Dear ladies„ if you find your
weight
Has started to increase of late
Because of dainties in the fridge
Or lengthy sessions spent at
bridge
Don’t yield yourselves to grim
despair
About your width on lounge or
chair,
For experts say that drastic
shrinking
Can be achieved by gentle
thinking.
But don’t, I pray you, let your
thoughts
Run to the practice of such
spprts
As tire the mind to contemplate.
Or, resting on your backs, debate
Just what you’d do if you had
clubs
Or how you’d trim those un-
kempt shrubs —
Just think you’re by a pool and
you
Can idly drop a stone or two!
D.H.E.
Misunderstanding.
“A woman threw meat-pies at the
umpire during a Sydney ’Rules
game.”
“It all shows,” said my Uncle
Octavius with a lavish gesture,
“how easily you can be mis-
understood.”
The gesture, in extenuated
illustration of Uncle’s meaning,
caused the inside of his sausage-
roll to become air-borne. It
concluded its mission with a
three-point landing in the coat-
collar of the nearest linesman,
who had just retired into it as a
protection from the wind.
Apparently attributing the
early sensation of warmth to the
fitful winter sunshine, the lines-
man at first merely unhunched
his shoulders half an inch, but
as the greasy nature of the
missile became apparent to him
he turned round.
This was unfortunate. Uncle
had just taken a bite of his
sausage-roll, observed its de-
serted condition and flung the
ravished husk away in pique. It
exploded flakily against the
linesman’s front elevation.
Uncle, with a second sausage-
roll poised for biting, stood self-
accused, The linesman handed
his flags to a deputy and moved
with dreadful deliberation to the
fence. He cut short Uncle’s
apologies with a single glove-
stroke, shared equally by Uncle
and his sausage-roll.
“I trust you will give me
satisfaction,” he said in a low,
menacing tone. “The choice of
weapons is, of course, yours.”
An expression of diabolical joy
rearranged Uncle’s features.
“Pies,” he said. “At twenty
feet. Hot pies,” added my
Uncle Octavius vindictively.
PLUM.
Ohm Brew.
“By a secret electrical process
Hajime Hoshi, a 74-year-old Japanese
chemist, gives his own make ot
whisky 15 years’ maturity in 12
minutes.”
Hoshi-san bowed low to the
group of Occupation journalists
who were inspecting his famous
distillery.
“Kindliness observings,” he
said, “the nifty simplewardness
of the set-up.” He pointed to an
iron barrel standing in the
corner of the bamboo-and-rice-
paper shed. From a hole in the
roof a bamboo pipe led into a
hole in the top of the barrel.
“Basically ingredient of honor-
able H two O to kick off with.
Perfectly hygienings of catchings
of best-quality rain through
drainpipe from roofings. Honor-
able wogs possessing not
slightest hope of foregathering
and jollifying in embryo hooch,
as he are become entangling in
handful of cat’s hair whom
Hoshi-san park with much
shrewd sageness in gutterings.
Result: H two O gain ingress
to giggle-barrel with clean bill
of health and completely free-
dom from nasty germinals.
Honorable bacillus gnash teeth
while struggling to free itself of
convolvuling coils of fummy’s
fibre up in gutter.
. “Here,” he went on, pointing
to a pipe leading into the side
of the barrel from a near-by
vat, “next most important part
of recipe, to wit, alcohols made
from fermentatious mangel-
wurzel-tops and hoop-pine shav-
ings. Honorable footslogger
wearing bagspipe and making
horribleness of noise on sporran
and enjoying large hairy knobs
on legs gives Hoshi-san excel-
lent oil one day that best Scotch
whisky made from mangel-
wurzel and shavings. Most
valuably tip for whom Hoshi-
san with much gratefully
coughed up wad of yen and two
fingers of own special brand of
Johnny Runner’s whisky for
honorable Caledonian gullet.
Ten seconds after ablutionings
of Sandy Mac-san’s tonsils in
firewater honorable Scot con-
tracts considerable blackness of
face. Breath returned after
subsequently retiring to iron-
lung via Army stretcher.” Hoshi-
san shook his head sadly. “Most
poorly imbiber of chief product
of Scotland or parts adjacent
thereto.
“Great secret of mellowness
of Scotchness made in Hoshi-
san’s honorable establishment,”
went on Hoshi-san proudly, “is
lengthenings of time allowed
alcohols to rush around among
H two O before being gal-
vanised into ebulliency of
actionings by being given shot
of honorable material that
lights up bulbs and makes
vacuum-cleanerS vac. Partner-
ship of raw hooch and element
used for floating ducks and
boiling honorable spud allowed
fully five minutes.” ■
“What current do you use,
Hoshi—direct or alternating?”
asked a scribe.
“Yes, I do, certainly,”
answered the distiller enthusi-
astically, “and straight from the
power-housing befojre it can get
cold. Note in there” —here he
lifted the lid of the barrel —
“you observing the zincness of
the plates, zinc imparting a
scrumptious bouquet to the best
Nipponese Scotch extant. It
are wrongful, also indiscreeting,
for Hoshi-san to disclosure
exact voltage used in case rival
hooch-merchants pinch formula.
Coils of wire here allow honor-
able electricity to whizz through
alcoholic content when juices
turned on with much velocity,
thereby convertings of cheap
hooch into gay and frisky of
most exquisitely sublime in taste
fit for Big Charlie himself” —
here Hoshi-san bowed reverently
towards the general direction of
the Palace —“or even honorable
commercial-traveller.”
“I herewith give demonstra-
tions, trusting honorable gents
of Fourth Estate kindly refrain
from blabbing plurality of bib-
fuls on secret process.” Here
Hoshi-san drew from the outlet
tap of the barrel a little of the
liquid into an iron cup. Into it
he dipped a new toothbrush;
when he withdrew it it was
quite free of bristles,
“Observings of the potency
of raw material,” he said.
“Another demonstration.” He
clapped his hands and an
assistant entered. “Partake of
a globule or three, Itchiboko,”
he commanded.
His assistant, who on enter-
ing made a nasal noise like an
asthmatic bulldog having a
nightmare, dutifully tossed off a
small quantity. Two seconds
later he grasped his throat, his
eyes revolved and fumes came
out of his ears. Hoshi-san
calmly waited till the first shud-
dering spasm was over, then
opened his assistant’s mouth
wide and gazed into the cavity.
“Honorable Itchiboko suffer-
ing from very onkus adenoids,”
he explained. “Now disappeared
entirely. Excellent. So has part
of his throttle. Not so excel-
lent, perhaps. You have leave,
Itchiboko.”
“That was rawish spirit. Now
observings again.” Hoshi-san
threw a switch, bowed and left
the shed. Twelve minutes later
he returned, this time with a
different assistant.
“Hooch now transformings
into most delectable product of
Scotland,” he announced, throw-
ing the switch out. Once again
he tapped a little into an iron
cup, offering it to his assistant.
“Most delishful tack,” he
said, a quiet pride reflected on
his wizened face. “Watch Heza-
homo enjoyings happy partner-
ship of Japanese inventings and
Scotch imitatings.”
Hezahomo swallowed half
the cupful, but before he could
put the cup down he had spun
around and hit the floor. As
he lay like a Jog Hoshi-san
shrugged his shoulders.
“Honorable whisky must have
short-circuited,” he said, “im-
partings to unfortunate drinker
something of a shock. It often
does that! Explanation,
please?” , V
BO.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Drift to the City
I live in what is called an outer-
suburban district. Our buses are crowded
daily with city workers, but the area is
still predominantly agricultural. It pro-
vides me with a living off the land. We
have our own poultry, cows, vegetables
and fruit. Living costs are less than half
what they are in the city, the air is
clear and fresh and the view unrestricted.
Altogether, a delightful place in which to
raise a family.
But there’s one serious drawback.
Education facilities are poor. With the
best intentions in the world the country
and semi-country schoolteacher cannot
impart the instruction that a child in a
city school acquires. His efforts are dis-
persed over too many classes, and fre-
quently his heart is not in his job. In
city schools teachers and pupils are on
their toes, and, anyway, the city schools
grab the teachers with the highest quali-
fications. After three years in an outer-
suburban school my children are 12
months behind their city cousins, and
they are not worried by the fact —lack
of 'competition has destroyed their in-
centive.
I have an alternative —daily travel to
a city school. - That would involve an
additional four hours’ “work” daily for
the kids, but it might be worth it. The
real country-dweller has no such alterna-
tive, His children may attend school
until they reach the sixth standard, at
about 12 years of age. They may spend
the remaining two years in the same class
or they may attend a boarding-school in
a city.
A conservative estimate for keeping
each child at a boarding-school is £l5O
a year. Thus three pounds a week at
least is added to the cost of living in the
country.
It’s a safe bet that most of the married
couples who drift to the cities do so in
the interests of their children. The most
attractive opportunities for modern
youngsters are in cities, and it’s the
children who count.
To stop the drift now is impossible,
but it might be reversed within a genera-
tion if conditions were made more attrac-
tive for the country youngster. Subsi-
dised education would help. So would
a move to help farmers to modernise
their farms. A farm equipped with
lathes, welding plants, soil-testing equip-
ment and facilities for scientific experi-
ments and investigation could compete
favorably with the attraction of a job
in an industrial centre. Gravel-
snatcher (W.A.).
Aircraft Fires
Recent air crashes have, with only one
exception, all been “flamers.” To those
of us who flew American aircraft during
the war that is not surprising, as they were
noted for their ability to burn, largely
because of the high magnesium content
of the metal with which they were con
structed —a type of duralumin.
The heat generated by 100 or 90 octane
petrol burning is sufficient to melt the
main spar of a wing in one minute, Tha
melting process appears to break the
alloy up into its various elements (steel
aluminium, copper, magnesium), and the
magnesium then reverts to its origina
highly-inflammable state. Some types of
aircraft were referred to by such nick-
names as “widow-maker.”
Few aircraft catch fire in the air, an
emergency which has been catered for by
the installation of fire-extinguishers,
operated from the cockpit, which inject
directly into the engine. But so far no
one has managed to find a way of ex-
tinguishing the flames when they have
been started by the aircraft disintegrating
on striking the ground.
I know more about flying than fire,
but it should be possible to instal a series
of fire-extinguishing “bombs” that would
explode and spray over the danger-points
on impact. Engines, petrol- and oil-tanks,
and, with liquid-cooled engines, the
coolant-tanks would have to be protected.
An alternative method is that of fire-
extinguishers fired by the pilot. Crashes
occur when least expected, and there is
always the hope that the worst will not
happen. But even so, in the event of
engine failure and a forced-landing, it
could be made compulsory for the ex-
tinguishers to be discharged, and so
obviate any risk of fire in a belly-landing.
One other point. I understand that
emergency drill is not practised by civil
airline crews, although they are taught
the correct procedure during training. It
is only by constant practice that the re-
quired speed and accuracy can be
ensured. — Lansdowne-Wynde (N.S.W.).
Coal Strike
The biggest puzzle of the coal strike
is the miners’ oblivion to their own self-
destruction. Eighty per cent, of them
are said to support the strike or acquiesce
by saying “We get results quicker this
way.” The only result which accrues
is the slow extinction of miners and their
federation. South Australia would never
have contemplated opening Leigh Creek
coalfield had it been able to get N.S.W.
black coal regularly. Premier Playford
opened it in the face of terrific criticism.
Because the coal was so inferior in
quality, the weekly production of 4000
tons was at first difficult to sell. But the
black-coal miners rallied with a strike,
and sales have soared ever since. This’
week production totalled 12,500 tons,
which, aided by oil, is keeping power
output at 30 per cent, of normal.
Additional uses are intended. A new
power-station which is to burn all Leigh
Creek coal, and will double the present
electricity output, will be completed in
1952. Locomotives are being converted,
two a day, to burn Leigh Creek coal and
oil. Gas-production from the deposits
was never contemplated till now, when
experts report it is not only possible, but
desirable.
Multiply that self-dependency by the
efforts in Victoria and Queensland, plus
the open-cut development and hydro-
electric schemes, and the N.S.W. miner
“Yah! Ring-in!”
will only be required to work one or two
days a week to supply local demand. —
Prehistoric (S.A.).
The origins of the strike weapon go
deep into last century, when strikes were
not only justified but unavoidable, as the
only means of getting some semblance
of justice. Some of the claims made, and
granted by the Arbitration Court, for
“amenities” for the worker look fantastic
against the picture of slavery conditions
of employees and callous inhumanity of
employers away back when the workers
started to band together in their rise to
power.
It took guts in those days to foment or
organise a strike. It took the same in-
gredient, and a lot of it, in the early
days of the Labor movement in Australia
to write or speak or take any active part
towards bettering conditions for the
working man. Labor unions were formed
and class-consciousness was preached
and absorbed—not so much for fostering
enmity between employer and employed
as for its political value in securing a solid
vote for Labor candidates. The greatest
gift to the working man by Labor in
Parliament was the system of industrial
arbitration. The pity of it is that most
of those receiving its benefits today did
not have to put up any kind of fight for
it. As a result it is not valued as it
should be.
If some of the dead-and-gone battlers
could look at Australia just now their
feelings would be “mixed.” Having in
mind the movement they inspired, the
machine they designed to secure justice
for the working man, and the forwarding
of it against bitter opposition and at the
cost of imprisonment, self-sacrifice, blood,
sweat and tears, they would certainly
exult to find it had reached the goal
aimed at. But they would stand aghast
at seeing the same machine now out of
control and pushing around, not the
capitalist, but the very people it was de-
signed to benefit —workers and their wives
and children. —A. D. G. (Q.).
•
Although brought to a head by Com-
munist agitation, the industrial debacle
in Australia dates back 20 years to the
mishandling by the Bavin-Weaver Gov-
ernment of the northern (N.S.W.) coal-
mining crisis of 1929, culminating in the
Rothbury riot. At that time tens of
thousands of tons of coal lay at grass,
and while those stocks lasted, supple-
mented by the production of southern
district miners, and kept Sydney’s essen-
tial industries supplied as usual, neither
the Premier (Bavin) nor Mines Minister
(Weaver) so much as raised an interven-
ing little finger. But as soon as accumu-
lated stocks showed signs of depletion
(after nine months) the Government
blundered roughly in on the side of the
owners (far from guiltless on that
occasion), and put free labor into
Rothbury colliery to break what it termed
a “strike,” but' which in reality was a
lockout.
I’m not sympathising with the coal-
miner—nobody professing even a spark
of the sense of justice would do that—
but Weaver’s bias and dictatorial methods
in 1929 sowed the seed of the idea which
has kept N.S.W. industries on the point
of coal-starvation ever since. In childish
retaliation the Miners’ Federation swore
that never again would an accumulation
of coal stocks in that State be permitted.
Which brings us up to date and to the
vital point in the present* crisis. Without
doubt, individually the miners allowed
themselves to be hoodwinked or provoked
into a callous strike this time by a radical
and lawless minority, but, to the con-
sumer, no terms of settlement will be
worth the paper they’re written on unless
the Federation guarantees to lift uncon-
ditionally the “darg” (deliberate restric-
tion of output per miner per shift), which
for 20 years'has operated with sinister
persistency on the northern field.
The coalminer must appreciate his re-
sponsibilities as a producer, and give the
best in return for his demand for the
best working conditions. —P. O. MacCabe
(N.S.W.).
Cost of Wheat
“Harry thb Horse” may be partly
right, but many less-deserving sections of
the community have received Govern-
mental largesse from time to time.
“H.H.” overlooks two important
points: (1) The grower has always sold
his wheat on open market, whereas he
has bought his farming requirements in
a protected market, a fact which has
no doubt increased his costs. When that
is analysed there is surely something to
be said in favor of his outcry against
wheat being sold at a price below world
parity. (2) If the payments under Debt
Adjustment Act or Farmers’ Assistance
Act were dissected it would probably be
found that a considerable portion went
to growers in low-rainfall areas unsuited
for wheatgrowing. Those settlers were,
in most cases, misled by rosy stories told
by various Governments of the day that
the land had potentialities it never really
possessed. Every decade brings a land-
settlement scheme to light, often with
unpleasant results.
After 30 years’ business association
with the wheatgrower I reckon he is, in
a pretty good trier.—C. B.’m
Television Monopoly
If there is any money or cheap propa-
ganda to be obtained from television in'
Australia the Federal Government will
do its best to get it judging by its deci-
sion to liijiit the field solely to A.B.C
stations.
As the costs of television in England
and America are huge and Australia’s
population is much smaller it would be
surprising if the Government does not:
(1) Allow limited advertising on A.B.C.
television programmes to offset costs;
(2) let commercial broadcasters use the
system on payment of huge licen
rights; and (3) make an additional tee-
vision-receiving licence of about
annually.
The new electronic development wi
cost millions of pounds. It will on y
pay in thickly-populated areas becau
of the limited range of the television pr
grammes. Unless the initial research
a bit more successful than the thousanc s
of pounds squandered in frequen
modulation the P.M.G. will again be
finding it necessary to increase telepho
and telegraph charges to offset the
search losses.
The Government, however, is wise
adopting the 625-line television, which
far superior to the 405-line operating
Great Britain and the 525 ir/America. ]
have seen all three, and the 625 gives
much clearer picture.— Waddlin’ Will
(Vic.).
Pay-rqll Tax
Surely the pay-roll tax is one of th
most iniquitous means of raising revenu
An employer—-the small shopkeeper wh
employs assistants, equally with the b
industrialist —is taxed 2\ per cent, on th
monthly wages-bill, less £B6 13s. 4d. Ho
that deduction is arrived at is not qui
clear, but according to General Instru
tions (10) an employer whose yearly out-
lay in salaries and wages does not excee
£lO4O is entitled to a refund. Neverth
less, he is compelled to make his monthl
return, although commonsense sugges
that the amount could as easily
assessed on his annual wages-bill. Pe
haps the Federal Treasurer thinks tha
by splitting up taxation in this manne
rather than adding the amount to a com
pany’s or individual’s income tax, th
impost will escape undue notice. — Dive
(Tas.).
Government Transport
If Mr. Chifley took the example o ’
Galo Plaza, Ecuador’s President, there’c
be an unholy shake-up in Governmen;
transport. Galo, on taking office, placec
all Government cars on a petrol ration
and authorised the police to arrest an
driver seen on the streets out of hour
without a permit. Result; A saving o
60 per cent, in car bills.
What a harvest Galo would have
the Government department in which f
work! We know when it’s clinic-day by
the fact that one of the boss’s cars head
hospitalwards; loads of shopping on the
office verandah indicate that all trips are
not strictly “Government,” an& on Satur
day morning the vehicles bearing the
ornate insignia of the department can be
counted in half-dozens on the main street
On Sunday a couple of the limousine
can generally be seen returning town
wards from the beach.
Apart from the dishonesty of the prac
tice, its continuance has a demoralising
effect on the “underdogs,” who interpre;
it, correctly, as thieving. Dishonesty is
often fostered by example.—O. A. (Q.).
Municipal Squandering
“Carlyle’s” figures on municipal ex-
penditure (B. 6/7/’49) don’t show the
true picture of care and upkeep of
suburban municipalities today.
Maladministration, careless expendi-
ture and lavish spending of ratepayers’
money have caused many municipal
councils to raise their rates to the 35.-
in-the-£ maximum.
The claim that 20 per cent, of rates
goes to road upkeep is probably correct,
but here again maladministration takes
charge and little, if any, road-repair work
is done. Occasionally a few laborers are
seen sweeping gutters, while large pieces
of road, damaged by plumbers and
P.M.G. linesmen, remain unrepaired. As
against “C.’s” 20 per cent., most Mel-
bourne municipalities have trams run-
ning through their main streest. The well-
run Melbourne Tramways Board takes
care of its 21ft. of road, and does it well.
Assistance given by municipal coun-
cils to baby-health centres, pre-school
kindergartens, libraries and charities is
small. Most of the health centres are
forced to run charity raffles and fairs to
augment the meagre allowance given by
the council. As for “C.’s” free kinder-
gartens, the “free” type are only to be
seen in industrial area's. In Camberwell
they all charge £5 ss. a quarter (morn-
ings only).
Back in pre-war years a former civic
engineer of Melbourne led an inquiry
into maladministration of the Sydney
council. His startling revelations are
applicable to many suburban municipali-
ties today.
Young returned men settling in new
houses are fed up with having to pay
£8 annually in municipal rates to have
their rubbish cleared twice weekly and
be completely ignored in all other civic
functions.— Waddlin’ Willie (Vic.).


this purpose. But in the first issue there
are three noticeable tendencies which, one
hopes, will be reconsidered in future
numbers.
First the artists who are discussed in
this number —Russell Drysdale, Justin
O’Brien, Margaret Preston, Douglas
Annand, Sali Herman, Lloyd Rees,
Adrian Feint, Donald Friend —are
mostly, if one remembers rightly, from
the Society of Artists group; and one
would not wish to see Art and Design
become merely a mirror of the prevail-
ing narrowness. Some of these are very
good painters, and, where one has
doubts, it is always a pleasure to see
what can be said for an art one disa-
grees with. But many of Australia’s
most distinguished living painters are out-
side this group. If Art and Design does
not give them a voice, sooner or later
they will make a platform of their own.
Next, the intermixture of too much
commercialism is likely to confuse artis-
tic values. There is always a place for
the William Morris type of aestheticism,
which calls for more artistic chairs and
wallpapers, but the point should always
be emphasised that these are works of
craft, not of art. However pleasing it
may be to learn, as one of the articles
records, that an artistic jam-label has
been designed for David Jones’s grocery
department, it is vitally important that
there should always be a clear distinc-
tion drd\vn between a work of art, which
has spiritual value, and a jam-label,
which is designed to sell jam—an opera-
tion in which spiritual values arS, at
best, infinitesimal. Sometimes one has
the impression that if it were a literary
magazine Art and Design would seriously
discuss the poetic values of the advertise-
ments for Wood’s Great Peppermint
Cure.
Finally, it is to be hoped that Art and
Design will not become a kind of trade-
journal publicising the products of David
Jones, Ltd., and the Ure Smith Pro-
prietary, Ltd.
The front end-paper of the first num-
ber has been designed by Gordon
Andrews for David Jones, Ltd.; the back
end-paper by Eric Roberts for Ure
Smith Publications; and between the
covers there are very many coy refer-
ences to these firms: beneath the repro-
duction of a Russell Drysdale painting,
for example, a footnote stating that the
plate is “one of many which will ap-
pear in The Art of Russell Drysdale, a
Ure Smith publication which is now in
preparation” ; at the conclusion of Mr.
Tatlock Miller’s article on Sali Herman
a note that “These most recent paintings
will be shown in a one-man exhibition
at the David Jones Art Galleries during
1949” ; a footnote to a reproduction of
a monotype by Margaret Preston, “A
Ure Smith book containing 27 mono-
types in color, of which the plate above
is one, will be published before June
this year” ; a paragraph in an article on
Australian designers:
Recognition of the function of design
as a "necessary element in a high standard
of quality is demonstrated in the work of
Gordon Andrews for the David Jones
stores in Sydney. The concept of produc-
tion-planning co-ordinated under central
control has resulted in an imaginative
cohesion of merchandise design. A thorough
knowledge of marketing requirements and
a plan for homogeneous design has been
followed up by a rise in volume of
sales....
It is pleasant to be reminded —even at
very frequent intervals —of the many
excellent art books which the Ure Smith
Proprietary, practically alone in the field
so far as the younger contemporary
painters are concerned, has published in
recent years. And if. David Jones’s store
as a men’s-wear department—if
that i s what is meant by “an imaginative
cohesion of merchandise design”—and
sales are going up, well and good. And
o th er firms, of course, are mentioned,
But there remai through the pages
o{ Ar , and Design a touch o£ com _
mercialism ; and, not wishing to be sold
an y product, however admirable, when
one j s thinking about art, one turns with
some relief to t hose articles which are
more in the style of the old “Art in
Australia”: the notes on the exhibition
of scu i pt ure in Battersea Park; on S. T.
Gill’s letterheads; on recent purchases
by die Felton Bequest; on the French
an d English paintings in Keith Mur-
doch’s collection ; on the photography
Q f Douglas Glass; and on the design of
postage-stamps.
The article on the Murdoch coll de-
don—if attention were directed to his
Australian pictures rather than his Euro-
pean—might well serve as a model for
future articles that could give the Art
and Design, and the Australian art world
generally, the breadth and balance that
are so urgently required. Nobody, so
meagre is the representation in the gal-
feries, can really hope to know anything
about Australian art until he has been
into the homes of the connoisseurs and
has seen their collections; or, at least,
has read about them.
Mr. Priestley Replies.
All authors have felt at times the
temptation to which Mr. J. B. Priestley
succumbs in Home Is Tomorrow (Heine-
mann) —of replying to their critics. For
the critics, if not deliberately malevolent,
as sometimes one suspects they are, do
often seem amazingly obtuse to the power
and beauty of one’s works.
Mr. Priestley records that his play, pro-
duced by the London Mask Theatre in
1948 with “one of the most brilliant and
exciting casts I had ever had in a play of
mine,” was an, “immediate success” when
it opened at the Princes Theatre, Brad-
ford. At the New Theatre, Oxford, helped
by “probably the most intelligent and
best-written notice this play received any-
where,” it was again a success. Mr.
Priestley was so impressed with this notice
in “The Oxford Magazine” that he sug-
gests that the dramatic critic who wrote
it “should be imported to London.”
Whether or not this “intelligent and
best-written notice” was favorable Mr.
Priestley does not say ; but anyone who
knows the ways of authors must be par-
doned for assuming that it was. At any
rate, without the brilliant and benevolent
critic of “The Oxford Magazine” to sup-
port it, the play moved on to the Cam-
bridge Theatre, London ; and there, alas,
“we were ditched.” After one month,
the play had to be withdrawn for lack of
adequate support This seems to me—
and to many of my friends in the Theatre —
the most spectacular and surprising failure
I have ever had.
And for this spectacular, and surprising
failure Mr. Priestley blames the critics;
who, he finds, are “increasingly suspicious
of and hostile to any change in either the
form or the content of the drama.” It is
too costly nowadays, he says, to “nurse”
plays for some weeks until the effect of
hostile notices has faded and the public
has seen for itself how good the play
really is. This situation places a heavy
responsibility On the critics ; and, “it is
my opinion that with ‘Home Is To-
morrow’ the critics did not adequately
face this responsibility.”
Since Mr. Priestley does not print the
London Press notices —except, on the
jacket, a few favorable examples—one
cannot decide if the play was, in fact,
reviewed without due responsibility. But
it is not, as it happens, a very good play.
It deals with an imaginary island in the
West Indies supposed at one time to have
been governed by Spain ; then to have
been independent under a gangster-
dictator ; and now, for the purposes of
tidying-up its administration and civilising
its populace, under the control of an off-
shoot of U.N.O. called the United
Nations Undeveloped Territories Organi-
sation ; for short, U.N.U.T.O.
An Englishman is head of the
U.N.U.T.O. Administration, and the
struggle of the play has to do with
whether or not his efforts to civilise the
island shall be sabotaged by the former
gangster-dictator and by a visiting capi-
talist who wants the island’s beryllium
silicate —a substance useful in the produc-
tion of atomic bombs. Eventually the
dictator shoots the U.N.U.T.O. man, but
we are told to have faith in the future
because some day U.N.U.T.O. will bob
up again.
Besides the Englishman, the dictator
and the capitalist, there are a number of
well-drawn characters in the U.N.U.T.O.
group 1 —a violent Czech, a cynical French-
man and a bland Chinese —and, neatly
entangled with the central political
struggle, are several love stories which
work themselves out before the final
curtain.
It is a well-made play and it is well-
written ; yet it is not exciting or even
very interesting. A minor disadvantage
is that it lacks humor ; but the real cause
of its insipidity is that, being a topical
political discussion, it has to be topical to
succeed; and it is not topical. Or not
compellingly so. Nobody, except per-,
haps Dr. Evatt, really has much faith in
U.N.0.; and if we retain some dim and
desperate interest in U.N.O, affairs we
are concerned with the great drama of
Europe and the battle of wits with Russia.
Nobody could get excited about what an
imaginary U.N.O. organisation is doing
on an imaginary island in the West Indies.
Mr. Priestley could reply, of course,
that his island is a microcosm of the
world ; and that what takes place there,
in imagination and symbol, is a picture
of what will happen everywhere if we fail
to take heed. But one must not encour-
age an author to reply to his literary as
well as his dramatic critics; for it is,
really, unwise for anybody ever to reply.
No argument can transform a mildly in-
teresting play into a box-office success,
and the author who complains at criti-
cism exposes himself at too many points
to counter-attack. Besides, if some re-
views are “stupid and hostile” there will
always be someone like that intelligent
and benevolent young man from “The
Oxford Magazine” to make amends.
Murder As You Go.
It has occurred to Douglas Reed,
author of Insanity Fair , etc., that it
would be interesting to make a study of
a British Home Secretary whose career
had been helped along by a series of
convenient murders, and then to show
him refusing to commute the death
penalty upon an habitual murderer.
The idea is not so fantastic as it may
at first seem. There was a New South
Wales Minister for Justice who once in-
sisted upon the death penalty in harrow-
ing circumstances and later was found
guilty of murder in England. Still, there
is no proof that any British Home Sec-
retary has been so worthy of his own
blame. In Mr. Reed’s book, Reasons of
Health (Australasian Publishing Co.;
Angus and Robertson), the hero is Jan
Farmingham, foreman on a South
African sugar plantation, of mixed and
dubious parentage.
Farmingham is presented as a power-
ful sjambok-basher of black labor; then
as the secret lover of the wife of the
plantation manager, who is later found
murdered. Next he appears in England
as “Colonel Jack” Farmingham, a name
to conjure with in the city; then as can-
didate for Parliament. His election
opponent, apt to criticise some of Far-
mingham’s business deals in which many
small investors have lost money, vanishes
and reappears after some time only as a
skeleton; and when Farmingham is
finally established as Home Secretary the
narrator, a high official at the Home
Office, whom Farmingham is beginning
to suspect of suspecting things, comes
near to death in a riding accident on
Farmingham’s estate.
By seeing all this through the eyes of
the official of the Home Office, Mr. Reed
has emphasised the slow accumulation
of suspicion, nothing proved, a fact bob-
bing up here, a vague memory tugging
at the mind there, until his story gains
an irresistible and horrible fascination ;
and the portrait of Farmingham, as a
man of dreadful passions, carefully hid-
ing them away, remains for some time
after one has put the book down ; for
the mechanism of guilt is the same with
small and large sins, and such books
take the dampers off the human piano
and play strange harmonics upon their
readers’ consciences.
Reviewed Briefly.
Morale: George Berrie (Holland and
Stephenson). Lighthorsemen fighting and
riding on Gallipoli and in Palestine. It’s
a work of shreds and patches—shreds of
embarrassingly patriotic sentiments,
amateurishly expressed, but some very
good patches of writing based on obser-
vation and experience. The action has
sometimes the grim, naked awareness of
All Quiet on the Western Front. The
characters are convincingly Australian.
Old Lighthorsemen can get their copy
from H. G. Collins, care Commonwealth
Bank, Sydney.
* * * *
Pattern for a Scandal: Dorothy
Blewett (Australasian Publishing Co.).
Story of a girl in a country town who is
going to have a baby to. her brother-in-
law. The picture of the village is fair
enough, and the people are credible whom
Miss Blewett treats unsympathetically,
Mrs. Treganowan fighting her spinster
daughter, old Mother Clancy of the
pub and her horrible great-grandson,
Claude; or realistically, as in the pathetic
quarrel between the underpaid clergyman,
Hewison, and his wife, worn-out with
worry—about the best scene in the book.
But the reader of the . reconciliation
scene between the doctor and his wife,
who has blabbed the scandal, finds himself
brushing treacle off his hands, and the
dear old schoolmaster symbolically em-
bracing a gum-tree does not bring a tear
to the reviewer’s eye.
* * # *
Soil of Wyoona: A. J. Masman (Her-
bert Jenkins, Ltd.). John Nixon, of
England, seeks a fortune in Australia in
1827, pushes out beyond Bathurst with
his flocks and herds, encounters beauteous
Rosaleen O’Doherty, who has come out
from Ireland so that her convict brother
may pioneer as her assigned servant;
they have trouble with blacks, bush-
rangers and droughts, marry, find that
after all they don’t want to sell up and
go back to England; and their children
are killed by the magic spell of the last
member of an aboriginal tribe which they
have exterminated—this is about the one
point on which the book differs, in essen-
tial pattern, from Brian Penton’s Land-
takers. The pioneering novel presum-
ably will go on being rewritten until there
are as many novels as pioneering families,
after which the series will be continued
to provide backgrounds for such as our
present Governor-General. In the pre-
sent book, the battles with the aboriginals
are pretty good, and the bushranging in-
cident, complicated in The Bulletin's
copy by faulty bookbinding, shows, as
far as one can disentangle the chapters,
an unusual view of bushrangers as a lot
of vicious and murderous ruffians.
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 26
Across.
I—This songbird has a drink with
a night-bird on the floating
menagerie. (6, 4)
6—These .birds save in confusion
when it hails? (4)
10— Stalin, perhaps, or just some
Titian beauty. .(7)
H—Exonerated 100 join the grass-
land Communist. (7)
12—Preposition. (4)
14—Firm gets £lOOO before the editor
came to terms. (10)
16—Duck biographies are an acquired
taste. (6) -
11— The slab is returned before morn-
ing for this healer. (6)
10—A picture symbol. (6)
21—100 cheer badly in the baby-
minding depot. (6)
23—This Australian town is to make
beer upset an artist and Mala-
trasi/the opera-singer. (10)
for a German boy. (4)
26—Most inferior comment by a fel-
low who despises sleep? (7)
(T) 01 t * le tbhig consumed by ape.
29 When upset we go to the doctor
who behaved like a draughtsman.
(4)
(CRYPTIC TYPE.)
{Solution in next issue.)
30—Island group’s broken hip gives
cheek to a tree. (10)
Down.
1 — Clergyman under the Gallic Sea
is to combine with quicksilver.
(9)
2 A North Dakota connective. (3)
3 Duck enclosure is frank. (4)
4 The French loafers become rob-
bers. (8)
5 Part of a typewriter upset these
features of renovated tyres. (6)
7 Six go on horseback with the
perfume slightly green. (11)
8 — Wasn’t neutral. (5)
9 To fondle you with a weapon
might cause sulkiness. (9)
13 —It is difficult and disquieting to
get Russian money in volume.
(11)
15 —I cry like a cat in the more recent
solution of caustic earth. (4-5)
18 — Muse of Tragedy allows me to
swallow the Spanish river in Italy
that is running over the fellows.
(9)
19 — Piano operated on the face with
regard to a meal. (8)
22 It offers lame support. (6)
23 Man or bird? (5)
25—Such an impediment gets 50 to 1
at starting price. (4)
28—Pound in the first-class son-in-
law of Mohammed. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 25,


Liberalism,
Socialism,
Communism?
IS FOR
K
j
LIBERALISM
stands for continued freedom of the individual; for Governments being the
SERVANTS of the people; for trade union democracy through the secret ballot; and
for encouragement of skill and honest work by incentive payments.
SOCIALISM
stands for the final regimentation of the individual; for a Centralised
Government as the master of the people; for Government control of the trade unions;
and for the same earning level for the skilled and unskilled worker, with no incentive
payments.
COMMUNISM
stands for complete disruption and ultimate revolution. Like Socialism,
it seeks the destruction of personal freedom and the creation of the all-powerful State.
A step towards Socialism is a step towards Communism.
The choice is yours, but remember—there can be no turning back from
Socialism or Communism. When you choose Liberalism you choose FREEDOM !
GIVE FINANCIAL SUPPORT TO THE LIBERAL PARTY
—send your contribution to State Headquarters,
R. G. MENZIES,
PARLIAMENT HOUSE, CANBERRA.
FL 22-49
Authorised by D. M. Cleland, 30 Ash St., Sydney,
