

ROYAL PURPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
vxvcx
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
the Bulletin
‘The Bulletin,” Voi. 70~~No. 3617
Wednesday, June 8, 1949
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
ROMNEY’S HOUSE ON
HOLLY BUSH HILL
r T''HE residential suburb of Hampstead,
A in north-west London, has for some
years rivalled Chelsea as a district
favoured by artists. Here on Holly
Bush Hill lived that great English
portrait painter George Romney (1734-
1802).
Romney, the son of a builder, was
born at Dalton-in-Furness, Lancashire,
in 1734, and at an early age showed an
aptitude for drawing. He was therefore
apprenticed to Edward Steele, the por-
trait painter, who lived at Kendal, in the
Lake District. In 1762 Romney went to
London, where he painted many
pictures, and during those years of
struggle he travelled abroad to study
when he could afford to do so. His
portraits increased in popularity, and he
soon became a professional rival of Sir
Joshua Reynolds. He painted many
portraits of Emma Hart (Lord Nelson’s
Lady Hamilton). Perhaps his most
famous picture is the “Mother and
Child,” which hangs in the National
Gallery, London.
At the height of his fame and pros-
perity in 1775-1795 Romney lived at No.
32 Cavendish Square, a house which no
longer exists. His marriage was not a
success, and his life became increasingly
irksome. This was accompanied by ill
health and mental fatigue; hoping to
regain his spirits and to renew his in-
spiration he designed and built the house
on Hampstead’s Holly Bush Hill which
became known as “The Mount,” shown
in this picture. He spent lavishly on the
building, which he described as being
“my new mansion which equals my most
ardent expectations in every respect for
beauty and convenience.” Before long,
however, Romney left this house and
returned after many years to his wife
at Kendal, After his death in 1802 there
was little demand for his portraits, but
today they are deservedly valued and
treasured. /


Learn
at HO*TF
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney "Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 249
AGE
The Red Page
"MARCH OF THE MODERNS"
I have always read anything William
Gaunt has written on art and artists with
the greatest pleasure. His Bandits in
Landscape, The Aesthetic Adventure and
The Pre-Raphaelite Tragedy are works
which I pick up and reread for the charm
of their prose, their intimate knowledge
of periods and personality, and most of
all for their brilliant little character
portraits.
But I put down his last work, The
March of the Moderns (R.P. 25/5/’49),
with an aftermath of irritation and de-
pression. Not for any lack of Gaunt’s
quality as a writer, but because of it.
All that careful annotation to be em-
ployed on a mob of morons and buf-
foons! And not entertaining buffoons,
either.
Beneath Gaunt’s detached and modu-
lated approach to his subject, one may
detect the disgust of a highly-cultured
mind forced to preoccupy itself with the
caperings and outcries of an asylum.
From Cezanne downwards to that abyss
which is Picasso, there is not one men-
tality that one can respect for even a
modicum of human grace or intelligence.
Nothing but insensate claims to a new
achievement in the arts which abolishes
all traditional standards of value, uttered
in an arbitrary studio jargon, with
obnoxious posturings of conceit.
Cezanne set its key by bellowing, “I
am the greatest artist that ever lived,”
and every other modernist has been try-
ing to outscream him ever since, down to
Dali’s pronouncement: “To be a great
artist it is necessary to be born a Spaniard
and to be named Dali.”
In this age of newspaper notoriety, one
might be inclined to accept that sort of
clamor as a publicity stunt, after the
manner of Bernard Shaw’s claim to be
better than Shakspeare. But Shaw,
escaped nonconformist minister as he is,
at least has wit and humor, and is able
to make an entertaining clown of him-
self. Assertions such as Cezanne’s and
Dali’s would discredit the mental re-
sources of a child of eight. They are the
effect of a form of desperation; an ex-
travagant over-valuation of their works
based in a suppressed conviction that they
have no value at all.
Conceit is always the sign of a nervous
and uncertain ego which must be in-
cessantly reassured against a collapse of
faith in itself. Whistler flew into a
frenzy of spite and fear at any hint that
devalued his works, and required to be
constantly surrounded by flatterers. One
wonders what the conceit-addict does
when alone to bolster up his faltering
ego . . .
This infection by conceit goes through
the whole modernist studio world of to-
day, as anybody in contact with it will
have observed. Arrogant self-assertion is
its defence against the insidious attack of
scepticism over the value of its works.
Like any other evangel, it must demand
credence by faith, and not by the autho-
rity of evidence.
Gaunt’s portraits of the modernist
“masters” present them as the supreme
dupes of modernism themselves. How
could this be otherwise, seeing that they
are the effect of a cause which has
mechanised them as its helpless puppets?
They are but one facet of the collapse
of civilised consciousness in Europe which
allowed the primitive brute to dominate
all activities, and, for a space, almost
bring the earth to universal cataclysm.
The studio-jargon which they have
invented is a desperate effort to explain
themselves to themselves ; a futile pro-
ceeding, since they would not be what
they are if they had the dimmest under-
standing of the blind surge of primitivism
that produced them. They had to acclaim
primitivism as an objective in itself, which
is the one glimmer of subtlety they can
be credited with.
Otherwise they are in the blankest
muddle over their effort to discredit and
displace civilised values. Gaunt’s anecdote
of the occasion when Picasso and a
couple of other modernist loons were
examining a crude piece of African sculp-
ture is extremely revealing on that score.
One of the loons remarked solemnly, “It
is as beautiful as the Venus de Milo.”
“More beautiful,” says Picasso.
I laugh every time I think of that
perfect exposure of fatuity. If Picasso
had any genuine belief in his infantile
splodges, the Venus should be anathema
to him; relegated to the lowest scale of
sesthetic values. But, desperately seeking
to put a valuation on his own work via
the African monstrosity, he has to fall
back on a standard of values estab-
lished by centuries of affirmation.
It is by such instances as this that one
sees the subtlety of Gaunt’s approach to
the modernist problem. By placing be-
fore us a cool, unaccentuated picture of
the modernist “masters,” he has placed
a precise value on the works produced
by them. For attack in terms of established
values means nothing to modernistic art,
since it rejects any values other than its
own, and those have no relation to canons
of taste, virtuosity, craftsmanship or
sesthetic qualities defined by great art and
affirmed by authoritative opinion. A
modernist painter is in the safe position
of one who lets off a gabble of Volapuk
and then, reverting to normal speech,
announces that he has been uttering new
and transcendent truths.
And this device explains the attraction
that modernism in art has for that drift-
ing section of the intelligentsia made up
of frustrates in the arts, occultists,
mystery-mongers, puzzle-addicts and the
parrot-chanters of any popular slogan
which gives them the illusion of being
one of the intellectually elect.
Once committed to modernism, they
are forced to accept its whole evangel,
since there is no fastidious selection of
what might be of value in it from what
is obvious rubbish.
The March of the Moderns will be of
great service to a psychological analysis
of the obscure retrograde impetus in the
mob-mentality which underlies its thin
veneer of civilised consciousness. Gaunt
has done more than annotate a period
by the exposure of its iconoclasm in
the arts. He has presented us with an
episode in civilisation perishing before
our eyes. There is no return to a high
standard of culture in a people once they
have degraded the art from which it is
derived. In that respect, the unit defines
the mass. Once an artist who started
on a sound tradition reverts to modern-
ism, what faculty he once possessed is
destroyed. There is a subtle physio-
logical Nemesis entailed here. Like drink,
drugs or idleness, once the process by
which the senses make contact with the
cortex is displaced, all conscious control
of the faculty is vitiated. „
There is no greater illusion than that
civilisation is a collective process. It is
a radiation of energy outwards from a
very minute centre. Could there be a
smaller nucleus of culture than that of
Shakspeare and the few Elizabethan
poets functioning with him? Yet we owe
to that group the salient energy of con-
sciousness which is world-wide today.
And that energy which constructs and
integrates the human mind at its highest
has been attacked and, in some cases,
disintegrated by a group of modernistic
buffoons congregated in that virus-centre
of moral degeneration, Paris.
One is tempted to say: Let Europe will
its own doom; that is no affair of ours.
Civilisation has always drifted westwards,
with the drift of continents. But there
is one facet of the modernist movement
where analysis may still be of some use:
and that is the support given to it by
certain writers, who, while applauding
disintegration in art, do their own work
within the established traditions of high
quality in literature. Modernism today
remains purely at plastic iconoclasm;
poetry and prose have thrown aside its
initial experimental fooleries. Therefore
every artist working in a sound tradition
of plastic values has the right to de-
nounce the treachery of those writers
who use a sound tradition in prose to
acclaim the modernist attack on sound
plastic traditions. If such writers as
Osbert Sitwell and Thomas Earp were to
write in the baby-babble of Gertrude
Stein, or the gibberish of Finnegans
Wake, one might accept as genuine their
affirmation of Picasso, Braque, Modig-
liani and the like, but when they do so
in normal English prose the falsity of
the affirmation is obvious.
Among academic minds generally who
affirm modernistic painting, the simple
truth is that they have no real opinion
about it, one way or the other. There
may be something in it; they don’t want
to be caught out uttering opinions which
later on may be derided as prejudiced
or out of date, so they sit on the fence
and say chirpily, “It’s all very interest-
ing.”
Interesting? A less definitive term
could hardly be selected. Interesting as
what? That query is shuffled hurriedly
aside. Forced into a corner, they might
claim for modernistic art that Paris, the
self-acclaimed centre of world culture,
created it; that the European dealers
sell large quantities of it; all daily news-
paper critics are for it; small groups all
over the world practise it . . .
Not one of these affirmations has
authoritative value. Paris? Does one
need to comment on the degradation of
the French national ego by its conduct
during the war? Dealers? The astute
dealers snatched at the publicity stunts
of the modernist clowns to capitalise their
works. Newspaper critics? Modernism
is “news.” Artists working in an estab-
lished tradition do not cut publicity capers
or excite controversy, and therefore are
no use to the popular press.
There is another influence which has
muddled academic opinion over values
in modernism. This is the age of puzzles:
crossword puzzles, murder mysteries, the
poetry of T. S. Eliot and Ezra Pound.
And no academic resist applying
scholarship to try to elucidate an
obscurity. Blake’s Prophetic Books used
to supply material for this urge. Now
the scholars brood over Finnegans
Wake; and Picasso . . .
Well, there are stray profundities to be
dug out of Blake, if you care to labor
with a pick and shovel. Even Joyce’s
gibberish can be translated into a sort
of sense, not very rewarding when you
get it. But the academic can dig till the
end of his days in Picasso and remain
as befogged as ever, for there is nothing
translatable into sense in his abstract
scrawls.
Nothing! Is there a more terrible
word in the dictionary? If the academic
knew what he was trying to do in assimi-
lating nothingness he would drop Picasso
with a shiver of horror. And it is with,
a shiver of horror that Gaunt closes his
March of the Moderns, with his account
of Dali’s surrealist film:
It was unbearable a‘nd agonising. It
showed a young man shaving who turned
the razor on a girl sitting near him and
cut out her eye. He chased her through
endless rooms and corridors, and as she
ran she was sometimes clothed and some-
times nude. Over the gangrenous fist of
her pursuer, caught in a closed door, ants
swarmed. As he approached her, cower-
ing, nude, in the final room, he was held
back by cords attached to two grand
pianos, and over the keyboards hung the
head of a dead donkey, blood pouring
from its mouth.... Horror and blood were
the omens of the time.
One does not envy those who have
mistaken for art these symptoms of
European disintegration.
NORMAN LINDSAY.
For This, the Tide.
(For D.B.W.)
For this the tide flowed—
The fall of the flood,
Bleaching the bone of the shore;
Salt stinging the blood.
You are the shell it yields
To cup to my ears,
Distilling in desperate song
The surging years.
You sing how after the ebb
Rolls in the swell —
Rather the seas be lost ,
Than I lose the shell.
Too soon through the swollen tide
Leers the ribbed sand;
Enough that the touch of the shell
Be warm to my hand.
QUEENSLAND.
VAL VALLIS.
Mainly of Snotties.
F. B. Eldridge’s History of the Royal
Australian Naval College (Georgian
House) is a bit like naval fife itself —
partly interesting, partly necessarily dull.
Interesting when expertly dissecting the
high-level political origin of our present
naval college at Flinders (the author was
for years senior master at the R.A.N.C.),
dull when recording the “special treats for
children organised every year by both
officers and ship’s company” and similar
domesticities.
The limited edition of 750 copies will
no doubt be easily absorbed amongst
the Fleet. Every graduate of the
college is mentioned in a personal-
par. section —and some of the finely-
trained youngsters were to develop into
figures famous in the world’s Navies —
and one can imagine a wind-burned
Admiral or old three-striper smiling in
rich reminiscence in his cabin as the
historian turns back the years. And the
midshipman on the bridge may never
know why the Old Man merely grunted
instead of erupting on receiving his near-
frozen cup of morning-watch cocoa.
There are scores of excellent photo-
graphs, of middies training, of middies
swimming and footballing, and hoisting
flags and struggling with sextants, of being
inspected by Governors-General, Gover-
nors, Navy Ministers, Admirals, captains,
commanders and/ toughest of all, by
cadet-captains. One particularly interest-
ing snap is of a group of serious-faced
snotties about two kerosene-tins tall, the
first entry in 1913. Among them were
J. Burnett (captain of Sydney when she
fought and died with raider Kormoran),
J. A. Collins, now First Naval Member,
H. B, Famcomb, who has climbed with
him rung for rung of the promotion
ladder, E. A. Feldt (of The Coast-
watchers), F, E. Getting (killed on Can-
berra’s bridge that savage night off
Guadalcanal) and H. A. Showers, lately
commodore superintendent of training at
Flinders, and thus captain of his old
college.
There is a foreword by Evans of the
Broke, and the book, excellently pro-
duced, is a natural and proper ending
to its author’s long association with the
R.A.N.
Reviewed Briefly .
A few years ago, when Curious Rela-
tions came out, “by William d’Arfey,
edited by William Plomer,” it was worth
while to wonder whether Plomer had
written the whole thing himself and was
avoiding direct responsibility ; but Four
Countries (Cape), a new selection of
Plomer’s short stories, set in Africa,
Japan, Greece and England, leads to the
conclusion that he had hot and was not.
These 16 stories have the same fine clarity
that Curious Relations had, but the
William d’Arfey stories had a wicked
fantasy about them, as in the story of
the languid young Edwardian miss, un-
visited by Cupid, who ate herself to death
on chocolate Eclairs, that summed up the
gentle and secret depravities of an age
when the veiy rich were handcuffed by
a ferocious public morality; and they
had an individual tone; whereas these
Four Countries stories might be the pro-
duct of any of a dozen careful and cor-
rect contemporary writers.
* * * *
Red Cedar: P. J. Hurley (Dymock’s).
A rambling travel-book about the North
Coast of N. S. Wales, Scrappy and dis-
jointed in its narration and unnecessarily
jaunty in style; but Mr. Hurley, who
usually writes under the pen-name of
“Waratah,” knows his district and knows
birds, beasts, fishes, and flowers. He also
knows about two one-legged convicts
who, in the early days, fought propped-up
in a boat till they dropped. Tourists who
take the book along with them will have
the whole district —its past and its pre-
sent, its fishing and its red cedar, its
rivers and its potentialities if the rivers
are dammed—in their hands.
* * * *
The Complete Poems of John Skelton:
edited by Philip Henderson (Dent).
Since Pope called him “beastly Skelton”
—an extremely unkind comment on a
forerunner in the art of satire—Skelton
has come up in the world. Mr. Hender-
son regards him as “the last of our great
medieval poets in the true succession
from Chaucer, Gower and Lydgate” and
mentions his influence on Robert Graves,
Edith Sitwell and Auden. The spelling
has been “regularised” in this edition —
that is, modernised just enough to make
it readily comprehensible without spoil-
ing the antique flavor —and Dents have
made a beautiful book of it.
* * * *
Stories of the Ballets: Gladys David-
son (Werner Laurie, Ltd.). Explanatory
background to 70 ballets, with notes on
the history of each, on the lines of the
same author’s Stories from the Operas.
As may be seen from a sentence from
“The Spectre of the Rose” —“The sweet
intoxicating scent of roses pervaded the
bedroom, almost as though wafted therein
by rose-petalled sprites from the very
hearts of the blossoms themselves”—-Miss
Davidson’s style is a trifle floral, but the
book should be extremely useful to those
who, wafted to the ballet by the rose-
petalled sprites they have married, haven’t
the faintest notion of what it is all about.
* * * *
The Permanent Settlement in Bengal:
S. Gopal (Allen and Unwin). Revised
version of an essay which was awarded
the Curzon Memorial Prize at Oxford in
1947. Dealing with the settlement of
land revenues made by Cornwallis in
1793, it gives glimpses of Cornwallis,
Warren Hastings and others, but is
chiefly for specialists.
* * * *
The Cocker Spaniel: V. A. H. Mat-
thews (.Oxford University Press). How
to breed, feed, train and exhibit them;
with 36 illustrations, including photo-
graphs of such aristocrats as Countess
Chloe of Ware and K.C.C. Ch. Church-
Leigh Crusader. A useful glossary ex-
plains such terms as “cow-hocked,” “dish-
faced” and “goose-rumped”: which, one
presumes, could never be applied to
Countess Chloe of Ware.
* * * *
Dostoevsky : Andre Gide (Seeker and
Warburg). The second volume that has
been published in what is to be a standard
edition of Gide’s works. The study of
Dostoevsky, running to 176 pages, was
first published in English in 1925.


"TRUTH MIN ADVERTISING”
MOM
SwF&
it®
rJ'
T
fSMJ/
k
a- v#»i»
I v
Vi
&«ar
HORDERNS
■
/fj
as
•—™*« —.
:
"V
x;'•'■■•<
riv.-
Wooden Tables and Seats
Easy to look at . . . easier to relax
on . . . gay, attractive garden seats designed to give
you the maximum of comfort and pleasure.
“Halvic” 6ft. Seat combining
strength, comfort and appearance.
Painted in gay tonings of Red,
Green, Orange, Yellow. Price, 79/3.
Not illustrated.
“Restezy” sft. Seat styled for
relaxation under a lightness
with strength principle. Red,
Green, Orange, Yellow. 64/-.
“Halvic” Individual Seat o£
light mobility with optional
arm rests. In Red, Green/
Orange, Yellow. Price, 44/9.
Tables manufactured with slat
design. In mild steel, with fixed
frames, in full range of bright
colours. 26in. x 26in., £4/2/-.
Essential Home Garden items
i*
Spacious open-
ing for deposit
of bulky parcels.
V
Bar steel grate
for sifting of
ashes.
Sliding panel for
easy removal of
ashes.
Keep your place clean with a
Burnall Incinerator
Standing 37in. high, 24in. wide and deep, the
“BURNALL has conical lid piece, hinged,
lifting as unit. Of patent design, obviates neces-
sity for cumbersome chimney-pieces, increasing
draught and combustion considerably. £5/4/6.
Green’s Monitor
Electric Mower
12in. Mower fitted
with h.p. electric
motor, AC current,
50 yards flex. Motor
drives cutting cylinder
only. £45/19/6.
W
ea
fgdg
Hordura (English) Fork
With four prongs, of best quality
steel. 19/3 each.
Hordura (English) Spade
Sturdily constructed of best
quality steel. 20/6 each.
Lewis Safety Hoe
Revolutionary design. Small, 7/6;
medium, 8/6; large, 9/-;
set of three, 24/6.
Spear and Jacson’s
Pruning Saw No. 336.
14in., Price, 17/3.
AGRICULTURAL DEPARTMENT—FOURTH FLOOR. ’PHONE: M 2401; BOX 2712 C, G.P.O. SYDNEY


the Bulletin
Vol. 70—No. 3617
Wednesday, June 8, 1949
TOO MUCH TO CARRY.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K.'Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
ANOTHER TAX OFFICE.
What “prosperity” under “Labor” has
done in sending up the citizen’s daily
transport fares is now to be repeated in
the post-office. The dispatch of mails
and telegrams and the telephone service
have all been growing steadily less effi-
cient in common experience; the
charges in all of them are now to be
raised because the Government can no
longer make the post-office pay.
For many years the post-office has been
less a public service than a tax-collecting
branch of the Treasury. It has been
administered not as a necessary utility
in the nation’s business and social life
seeking efficiency without profits, but
as a means of extorting additional
grist for the mill of Government
expenditure. Its annual surpluses
have been a scandal for many years.
The “temporary” war-time surcharge of
25 per cent, on basic letter-postage has
been maintained by the Chifley Govern-
ment as a permanent imposition in face
of plain evidence of the buoyancy of
postage revenues. The other great profit-
making branch has been the telephone
division, where the annual rentals charged
for the instrument require the subscriber
to pay over and over again the original
cost of it, and many of the instruments
thus sold and resold, while remaining
within the .Government’s possession, are
as obsolete as the “jumping-jack” trams.
From the Postmaster-General himself
nobody expects any administrative discre-
tion. His department apparently con-
forms with the taxation programme of the
Treasurer. He began his Ministerial term
in this Parliament by announcing during
one and the same week, first, that the
post-office could afford to reduce charges,
and next, that anything of the sort was
impossible. He has refused to remit the
war-time “temporary” postal surcharge
on all letters with so many different ex-
cuses that none of them could be regarded
as sincere. Originally it was that defence
expenditure still made it necessary; then
he was proposing to send all first-class
mail by air for the land-transport cost;
and when that alibi was revealed as
patently sheer invention, he fell back on
the argument that post-office development
was retarded during the war and the extra
revenue was wanted now to make up the
leeway.
For the five years 1937-42 the aggre-
gate of annual surpluses collected by the
Postal Department was £20.5 million —an
average of over £4 million a year. Dur-
ing the next four years 1942-46 they
amounted to another £25.5 million. These
profits were simply collared by the Trea-
surer and treated as any other taxation
revenue. During the late war years the
Postal Department could not spend
money as it would have liked on main-
tenance and new equipment and build-
ings. But as the war drew to a close the
Government began appropriating postal
surpluses for the department’s capital
works, and thus used the surpluses of
just under £4 million in each of the years
1944-45 and 1945-46 and of £3.1 million
in 1946-47. In 1947-48 (coincident with
the beginning of the 40-hour-week ex-
travagance) the post-office registered a
working loss of £BOO,OOO, and for the
current year the Treasurer budgeted for
a loss of £2.9 million, a figure now
increased by another £600,000. As the
post-office (among other Government de-
partments) continues to increase its roll
of employees from the labor market this
loss, growing by what it feeds on, is esti-
mated to swell from £3.5 million this
year to £6 million next year. Mr.
Chifley’s inflation and the 40-hour week
are thus registering themselves against
post-office customers, with the usual effect
of augmented prices to the public. The
Socialists call this procedure profiteering
when used by private enterprise, demand
the pegging of such prices and that
merchants shall carry the loss; but when
Socialists do it in Government business
undertakings—which do not have to
bear the taxation imposed on private
employers —they account it to themselves
for righteousness.
The huge accumulated profits of the
past 12 years—to go back no farther—
count for nothing. People who write
letters, send telegrams, and use telephones
—and in particular the hated Press, which
uses the department’s telegraph channels
for newsgetting and its carrier service
for newspaper distribution —must all pay
from 50 per cent, more for some facili-
ties and up to 100 per cent, more for
others, and this despite notorious de-
terioration in the services provided. The
only current benefits forthcoming will be
enjoyed by the department’s employees.
Senator Cameron had to admit what can
no longer be concealed: that the 40-hour
week on top of other price inflation has
done the damage. He states the swollen
costs thus incurred at £5 million
a year—that is, of course, up to the
present. This is how wages and salaries
have risen in the service during the past
four years:
1944- £13,143,228
1945- 14,518,540
1946- 16,057,891
1947- 20,095,722
1948- (est.) 21,679,900
But the last line there always looked, and
now admittedly is, far too low.
The situation demands a searching in-
quiry into the administration, of this over-
taxing and overspending public service.
How much the post-office has had to
bear of the huge subsidies paid out to
Government airlines, to what extent it
is involved in the financial deficiencies of
Mr. Calwell’s expensive pet, the A.B.C.
news-service, and in the programme for
developing .a Government monopoly in
f.m. broadcasting, no clear indication
has been givqi. What the public does
know is that Mr. Chifley has been re-
morselessly, even maliciously, extorting
from business companies and from all
but the lower ranks of taxpayers income
tax far beyond his current needs \. that
the niggardly remissions he announced
months ago have been unfairly withheld
until the next financial year; that the
post-office in the past has accumulated
ample funds to meet its immediate deficit,
and so avoid the new slug on all busi-
nesses and upon every individual tele-
phone-user ; and that consolidated
revenue, anyway, owes the post-office
over the 'years a sum that must equal
several years’ postal expenditure. It is
of a piece with Mr. Chifley’s splenetic
withdrawal of price-fixing subsidies while
continuing to levy the taxation imposed
to pay for them.
Of course, the post-office as a business
must pay its way. In the pre-Socialistic
era it more than did this; it took from
the public much more than it required
to run its services. Under Mr. Chifley’s
“Golden Age” of socialisation it is now
running at a loss which is a complete
reversal of the previous condition. Where
it formerly made £5 million or so a year,
it is now losing £5 million. The entire
community will now have to pay for this
item of Socialist “prosperity,” for it
would be optimistic to expect that ordi-
nary letters and public telephones will
for long be exempted from the extra taxa-
tion now to be imposed on “Labor’s”
selected users of post-office services.-
Ministers take pride that the department’s
employees have risen from 43,000 before
the war to 69,000 last year (Mr. Calwell’s
figures in October, 1948), and they are,
under the 40-hour week, short-handed
and looking for more.
Soon the post-office will be like N.S.W.
railways and trams—overcapitalised in
relation to its income and a permanent
drain on the annual Budget. Meanwhile
the public can see, while paying more,
just what it is paying for.
Mr. Fraser and Conscription.
If politicians of the Chifley-Dedman
mould are able to blush, now is the time
for them to give an exhibition as they
read the speech of Peter Fraser, Prime
Minister of New Zealand, at the meeting
of the New Zealand Labor party .which
dealt with the question of compulsory
service.
The New Zealand Labor party itself
should do some blushing, too, for it seems
to be just another run-of-the-mill Anti-
podean Socialist party, every plank in its
platform built on expediency, every objec-
tive decided upon by the will-this-win-
votes test.
Mr. Fraser has sometimes been ac-
cused of partaking of the general nature
of this frightened mob, which is as like
the mob behind Mr. Chifley as it is pos-
sible to be. But nowadays, in dealing
with issues which are national, he has
shown himself apart from and above
them almost as far as he is above the
breed of Canberra,
Mr. Fraser has travelled a long way
politically since 1914-18. He has, as
P.M. of Maoriland, stood by the fighting
soldier. In World War II he stood by the
British Commonwealth, and his little
Dominion, under his hand and urging, had
a net intake of men into the forces equal
to 67 per cent, of the total male popula-
tion between 18 and 45 years of age. With
a population of around 1,700,000 people
during the war, including Maoris, the
Dominion had 29,500 killed and
wounded, and its little Army served
gloriously in every battle area from the
Pacific to the borders of Hitler’s Ger-
many under Freyberg, V.C.
Maoriland was the only country out-
side Britain one of whose sons won a
double V.C. in the war, and its armor in
Egypt and Libya, its Maori battalion in
Tunisia and its stupendous division-fight-
ing from Cassino to Trieste, not to men-
tion its early prodigies of valor on the
Peneios slopes of Olympus, under the
shadow of the ancient home of the gods,
belong not only to the story of its own
little islands but to the whole of British
history.
In all operations the fighting soldier
of New Zealand had the support of his
Government in a way never accorded
to the Australian soldier by the
noisy crowd of “Labor” larrikins who
were in power in this country and who
viewed the war purely from a vote-
catching angle.
Mr. Fraser’s approach to the New
Zealand Labor conference was not merely
from his own initiative. He went to
England at the same time as Mr. Chifley.
At the request of his own caucus he con-
sulted the Chiefs-of-Staff in London par-
ticularly in reference to Maoriland’s de-
fence necessities. He returned and placed
their findings before the Defence com-
mittee of the Dominion. That committee
made unanimous recommendations which
were a foregone conclusion, since they
endorse the findings of the defence
authorities of every country in the world,
from Russia and the United States to the
United Kingdom and France—that there
can be no effective defence without com-
pulsory training, the voluntary system, as
Mr. Fraser himself remarked, having
failed in Australia and Canada. 'Hie
Ministry in turn endorsed this finding.
Caucus, with one dissentient vote,
approved it wholly. And then the Prime
Minister took it to the rabble six
hundred-odd who form the New Zealand
“party” conference.
He knew, just as well as anybody in
Canberra, that what he proposed to do
might split or destroy his party because
a section of the Communists and fellow-
travellers in its background are tooth-and-
nail opposed to all measures which stand
in the way of Communist world
dominion. Yet -he tackled the matter with
determination and in a manner which was
constitutional, as fair to the electors and
as fair to everybody as is possible under
a Socialist system.
Going to the conference in person he
moved:
That the conference approves that full
provision should be made by the Govern-
ment for: —
(1) The adequate and effective defence of
New Zealand, including the Pacific areas
necessary to the defence of New Zealand.
(2) -The maximum contribution possible
to the defence of the British Common-
wealth, with which the destiny of New
Zealand is wholly and completely bound
up. Towards these ends:
(3) The conference requests the Govern-
ment to use all the resources of the
country, including compulsory national ser-
vice, if the Government, after exploring
all possibilities and alternatives, is con-
vinced that such a measure is essential for
the defence and preservation of our people,
our country and our Commonwealth.
(4) That conference considers that these
proposals should be placed on the policy
platform of the party for the general
election.
The Government of New Zealand has
full powers under legislation in force to
apply compulsory military training and
even compulsory national service if it
deems it necessary. Mr. Fraser could
easily have held his general election and
discovered the emergency afterwards,
which would probably be the . Canberra
method —as it was with the banking legis-
lation of 1947 —if the issue on defence
were forced upon Mr. Chifley.
However, this is not the Fraser way.
The old Prime Minister said that “New
Zealanders would be criminals if they
did not take steps to defend themselves,”
and that “it was no use saying New
Zealand could keep out of wars, because
its shipping had to be protected and its
trade made safe.” He declared that if
there was any difference of opinion any-
where, it was about whether “it was
humanly possible to raise the force which
might be required in time”:
It is my innermost conviction that if
there is an opportunity for certain Powers
to overrun the world, national service will
be necessary to the continuance of our
national life if war breaks out. It is
only a matter of time, not of principle.'
I believe the country has made up its mind.
Nineteen out of 20 would condemn this
country if it did not make adequate pro-
vision in time.
And, anyway, he asked, “was New
Zealand to see the Mother Country bat-
tered to pieces once more, and starved by
not having the goods we could supply?”
Mr. Fraser found little support among
his raucous “followers,” despite the fact
that he told them that New Zealand was
short 50 per cent, of its manpower needs
for defence, and that the position was
aggravated by the fact that other Pacific
nations, Australia and Canada, could not
come within range of their requirements.
One would have imagined that his final
appeal would have made refusal of his
request for support impossible:
It is not courageous to say that we will
provide the food and let the Mother
Country do the fighting. This country
must trust the Government and empower it
to bring in national service. If Shanghai
falls [now fallen], and if Hong Kong falls,
too, there are still thousands of miles of
water before we are reached; but we would
need to do our bit together with the British
Commonwealth and the United Nations.
He added that equality in status in the
membership of the British Commonwealth
implied equality of sacrifice and effort
in its defence.
His resolution was seconded by a Mr.
Forsyth, of the Auckland Caretakers’
Association, who said that he was a
Socialist and had been in South Russia
during the revolution in the Ukraine and
knew what the country was up against.
It was supported by Mr. Skinner, one of
his Ministers with a fine fighting record,
and by another, Mr. McLagan—Minister
for Manpower and National Service
during the last war—who said scorn-
fully that hopes never averted war,
that Socialist ideals meant nothing if
other people believed in force, and that
pacifism was no defence against aggres-
sion. But, despite this, the chairman, a
Mr. Robson, did his best to prevent the
resolution being put until the Prime
Minister sadly faced the alternatives of
having a motion carried affirming the
party’s undying opposition to conscrip-
tion or remoulding his own proposal to
include the following amendment:
That the conference requests the Govern-
ment to use all the resources of the country
for the preservation of our people, our
country and our Commonwealth, and that
if the resources are not available without
compulsory service the Government should
be requested to obtain the views of the
electors by a referendum.
The Government is placed in an abject
position. If it really believes that the
conference which carried the amended
resolution by 600 to eight has authority
to make its policies it should resign and
fight them, or tell them to find another
Government. But Socialism does not
work that way. Its Governments accept
election from the people and then bow
to the opinion of small union and
“Labor-league” juntas which represent
only vested minority interests, and whose
delegates as often as not obtain their
positions by chicanery.
The time must inevitably come when
the selfish inclinations of these people
run counter to the paramount national
interest and the Government’s inescap-
able duty. Then the “leaders” of the
Government have the unworkability of
the system brought home to them with
a punch.
Mr. Fraser has just had his awakening,
and those to whom he submits his actions
will have theirs later on. Both he and
they now may realise that the only dur-
able Government is one which submits
solely to Parliament and the electors. The
N.Z. Labor party, as an organisation, will
probably learn this to its sorrow. The
theory held in Labor circles in Australia
and New Zealand that no Labor Govern-
ment can introduce compulsory military
service and survive has yet to be proved.
But whatever happens to the party, Mr.
Fraser will emerge with prestige.
A Loyal Toast.
[To N. S. Wales Premier McGirr, on the
occasion of his getting caucus approval of an
addition of four N.S.W. Parliamentary seats, and
his intention to clamp down on all election com-
ment, news and advertising two clear days
before election-day.]
Oh, Mister McGag, yev a wonderful way
wid yer,
Leadin’ the Laborites into the fray wid
yer.
Addin’ four seats so yer party will stay
wid yer
When the elections is over and all:
‘Ere is a ’ealth ter yer, Mister
McGag,
Winnin’, a bragster, and losin’, a
nag;
Prince of State Potteries,
Lover of Lotteries,
Knight of Night-Trotteries:
MISTER McGAG!
Oh, Mister McGag, if the newspapers’
barrackin’
Gets underneath yer electoral jarrah-skin,
Act like the leadin’ political larrikin —
Shut ’em all up on the We’n’sday
Before:
Don’t let ’em frighten yer, Mister
McGag,
Liberty’s only a feeble old ’ag;
Don’t let ’er run along
Screamin’ yer done ’er wrong—
Out ’er like Bunnerong,
MISTER McGAG!
N.S.W.
SWEET WILLLAM.


PLAIN ENGLISH
This Larrikin Ministry.
Amid raucous hilarity from the Treasury
benches, designed to cover Mr, Chifley’s
lame reply to Mr. Menzies on “Labor’s”
debasement of Parliament and its debates,
the Prime Minister has never cut a worse
figure than he did in the Representatives
last Friday.
Though Mr. Chifley argued that the
Government had to support the Speaker
(whatever his shortcomings, apparently),
his own suggestion as a remedy for
reckless defamatory attacks on members
and individuals “from this coward’s
castle of privilege” was, in effec(, an
admission that the Speaker was unable to
interpret the Standing Orders.
The prime offender was “Information”
Minister Calwell. On Wednesday he
read to the House, with malicious glee, a
“letter” containing grossly libellous
allegations against the honor of a
Country-party member, C. F. Adermann
of Maranoa, and refused to table the
“letter” or to say who wrote it. The
member offended indignantly interjected
that the statements were lies, but was
promptly reproved by the Acting Speaker.
As Mr. Menzies said, every member of the
House knew that Mr. Adermann’s denials
—when later he was allowed to speak—
were true: “I will except,” he added in
retort to a Treasury-bench interjection,
“one Minister.” The Acting Speaker had
been called upon at the time to require
Calwell to withdraw, but refused to do
so, though the Minister’s slanders were
being published over the radio to the
country at large. Calwell’s speech—dis-
graceful in a Minister who controls the
national radio news-service and is per-
petually assailing the Press for its news-
presentation—was the one during which
the Speaker suspended Mr. Menzies from
the sitting because he interjected in reply
to another provocatively false statement
about the Menzies Government’s treat-
ment of Communist traitors during the
early phase of the war.
The Prime Minister neither intervened
then to prevent the suspension of the
Opposition-leader, nor did he even take
the trouble to find out —as he admitted in
his evasive reply to Menzies —what
Calwell had said about Adermann and
how the Acting Speaker had treated the
incident. Although the House had been
in an uproar of indignation and the
lobbies echoed with it later, Mr. Chifley
said he knew nothing of it, did not
attempt even to find out from “Hansard”
proofs, and “the first account I heard of
it” was 48 hours later from the moving
of the censure motion to which he
was replying. And on that basis
he stood, he said, for the Speaker
right or wrong; and if the House was
ready to abandon its traditional privilege
in debate he was for wiping it
out altogether. While that proposal
supports, by implication, every Opposi-
tion protest against the deficiencies of
Acting Speaker Joe Clark, it would be
utterly ridiculous that one of the most
ancient Standing Orders of Parliament,
bequeathed to every British democracy
from the Mother of Parliaments at
Westminster, should be abolished be-
cause some sub-standard deputy-occu-
pier of the Chair is not up to the job that
the Chifley caucus allotted to him.
This Socialist Government is im-
properly restricting the rights of members
of Parliament, and it is bringing Parlia-
ment into contempt, as the censure
motion charged. It is doing so of set
purpose. It limits all formative debating
of legislation to caucus discussions in
secret. Its whole attitude towards Parlia-
ment is ruled by the party programme
for the eventual replacement of Parlia-
ment itself by a Supreme Economic
Council, through which the country will
be governed by the trade-unions. That
was laid down, as incidental to the
socialisation plan, by the A.L.P. confer-
ence of 1921, and the Chifley Govern-
ment is pursuing that programme as its
own actions have declared.
The spokesmen for this “Government”
sought during the censure debate to re-
present that the Opposition motives are
based on personalities. Electors ought
to be alert to the truth that, on the con-
trary, the issue was raised —and remains
in full force —on one of the most vital
matters pressing for their attention; that
the Parliament they elect shall be pre-
served in its authority and dignity as
their own voice in the government of
their affairs.
In Camera.
(A preview of a Cabinet meeting to be held
shortly after lunch on the Thursday before next
New South Wales State polling-day.)
Premier McGirr: “Well, boys, they’ve
defied us, and it’s up to us to show them
where they get off. This is a democracy,
and what we say goes.”
A Minister : “Wait a bit, Jim. What’s
it all about? Put me in the picture.”
Premier: “You’ve read the papers,
haven’t you?”
Minister; “Fair go! Just getting out
of bed when you rang. Had a bad trot at
the dogs last night and couldn’t face the
papers. What did I miss?”
Premier; “Well, both morning rags
came out chock-a-block with election
stuff.”
Minister: “So what? They’ve been
doing it for weeks, haven’t they?”
Premier: “Yes, but what about our
ban? It came into operation at 10
o’clock last night.”
Minister: “Don’t mention last night
to me. Those blasted dogs!”
Premier: “So you see we’ve got to
show these Press barons who’s the real
rulers in this State. They print their
scurrilous libels about the Labor party
and try to turn decent-minded people
against us,”
Chorus: “Hear, hear!”
Premier; “Look at the embarrassing
stuff they printed at the time of the
Coogee by-election. And Kogarah, And
Concord. My face was almost red.”
Chorus : “Hear, hear!»”
Premier: “Press attacks on our party
have revealed the power of money in all
its stark nakedness. Paid hirelings have
traduced Labor’s stalwarts and they are
seeking to make money-power prevail
over the will of the people.”
A Minister; “Good stuff, Jim, but
save it for the platform. We’ve heard
it all before.”
Premier: “Canards have been circu-
lated and facts wilfully distorted and
misrepresented by a powerful Press, with
IMPENDING BLACKOUT.
“N. S. Wales ‘Labor’ Premier McGirr, alarmed at his party’s losses at by-elections, proposes to stifle criticism of his Government
tty banning political comment in newspapers for two clear days before an election.”
“Reckon I’ll stand a better chance with her in the dark.”
powerful political and business backing.
We’ve got to stop it.”
A Minister: “What are we going to
do about it?”
Premier: “This vicious propaganda is
the most bitter since constitutional gov-
ernment was first established in this
State.”
A Minister: “Wait a bit. You said
that after Kogarah,” •
Premier: “Of course I did, but I
hadn’t read this lot then.”
A Minister; “Get to the point, Jim.
What are you—er —we going to do?
Fine ’em?”
Premier: “Fine ’em be blowed! We’ll
ban ’em.”
A Minister : “All of ’em? Afternoon
papers, too?”
Premier: “Yes. They’re in the plot,
too. The midday editions are full of
vicious propaganda. We’ll ban the lot.”
A Minister: “I say, we can’t do that!”
Premier: “Of course we can. Can’t
we, Clarrie?”
Minister for Justice: “Sure thing.
It’s in the Act,”
A Minister: “You mean ban ’em
altogether?”
Premier: “Till the election’s over.
We’ve got to show ’em they can’t do this
sort of thing in a democracy.”
A Minister: “No papers at all on
Friday and Saturday!”
Premier: “That’s what I mean. We’ll
have to teach ’em a lesson,”
A Minister: “You can’t do it. What
about our supporters?”
Premier: “They’ll understand. We’re
doing it to help them. It’ll give them
a chance to reflect without having their
minds poisoned by blatant canards. They
go to the polls”
A Minister,- “You can’t do that, Jim.
No papers on Friday and Saturday!
What about the Turf Supplements?”
Premier: “Eh?”
A Minister: “No Turf Supplements?
The boys’ll stand a lot, Jim, but that’s
going a bit too far. You’ll lose us the
election..”
Chorus: “Hell, yes, Jim. Break it
down! ”
Premier: “Well, what d’ you know?
I never thought of that. Of course, that
makes a difference. It’s a trap. Issue
a statement, Clarrie. Tell the people
we’re not going to be coerced into pre-
cipitate action by the machinations of
the Press barons. We’ll show them that
all their vicious propaganda about us
wanting to suppress criticism is a pack
of lies.”
Chorus: “Hear, hear, Jim! That’s
the stuff to give ’em.”
Premier: “One more thing, Clarrie.
Better get someone to ring the ‘Standard’
and the ‘Tribune’ and tell ’em it’s an
open go for tomorrow.”
Coal Crisis.
A general stoppage of industry by the
coalminers may happen any hour. The
shortage of essential fuel is increasing the
debility of industry, anyway, and hasten-
ing the “recession” which the Prime
Minister now admits is in view.
The Communist miners’ executive has
rejected in turn arbitration and concilia-
tion. Throughout last year it treated its
special arbitrating body, the Coal Tri-
bunal, as a sort of football, and the
example spread to the Communist-bossed
Waterside Federation, whose contemp-
tuous behavior towards the Stevedoring
Industry Commission has led to the aboli-
tion of that body and the Government’s
decision to re-create it as a single referee,
“like the Coal Tribunal.” Obviously in
keeping with these events was the calcu-
lated insult to the Arbitration Court last
week by the Seamen’s Communist secre-
tary. Any of these unions at the drop of
its boss’s hat can stop coal movements.
The miners’ executive has “postponed”
its preliminary one-day stoppage on the
coalfields for a fortnight—whether be-
cause Moscow’s orders have not yet been
finalised, or because “Fixer” Ashley has
intervened through the Coal Tribunal, has
yet to be made clear. The purpose of
the one-day stoppage for the holding of
aggregate miners’ meetings is said to be
the authorisation by those meetings of a
general coalfields strike.
The first meetings, with the Coal Board
chairman presiding, broke down, and then
the Coal Tribunal called another com-
pulsory conference of owners and miners
only. The unhappy Coal Board chair-
man looked up after the first effort, and
expressed his disappointment—and appar-
ently surprise—at the miners’ refusal to
debate anything except upon their own
demands. He placed the blame for the
conference failure upon the objection by
the miners to his proposals on mechanical
extraction of pillar coal. “The board’s
attitude was misunderstood,” he said
bitterly. “It would not think of asking
the miners for blanket permission to work
pillars by All it asked was
an easing of the miners’ ban “so that the
safetv of the mechanical method could be
(Continued on next paged.


'n
m
%
6661 E-R
CRAVEN "A"
Their quality and smoothness
is unmistakable
made specially to
CARRERAS LIMITED OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
dfd
proved or disproved.” Every expert has
advised that this pillar coal should be
got out by machinery and! without delay.
This sort of attitude, of course, only
reinforces the miners’ obstinacy. They
like to see the “joint Governments”
wringing their hands. The Coal Tribunal
then called its conference with the colliery-
owners and miners only. The stand the
owners have taken is that they are pre-
pared to meet the miners’ demands for
long-service leave on condition that it is
based on guarantees of increased working
output and the checking of irresponsible
strikes. On these points the miners’
bosses have refused hitherto to guarantee
anything.
In the usual fashion of such bargain-
ing the position now is that the miners
leaders must either win some concession
from the conference “to take back to the
men” or the strike will be turned on to
save their faces. They can win something
only by striking a bargain with the em-
ployers. Short of some new appeasement
by the “joint Governments,” bargaining is
their last resort, for they have spurned
both conciliation and arbitration from
the established industrial authority.
POLITICAL POINTS
On Monday the slog-for-slog descrip-
tion of the Fadden-Chifley fight on petrol-
rationing was interrupted by an an-
nouncement that the High Court had
unanimously ruled the National Security
(Liquid Fuel) Regulations invalid. The
interrupted bout may now be transferred
into the import-licence field —unless the
Prime Minister finds some other way of
giving vent to his spleen over this High
Court decision.
Senator Cameron, one of the arch-
priests of Socialism, has struck his cause
a cruel blow. In the past whenever any-
one has attacked “Labor” plans for
socialising banks, airlines, shipping and
whatnot on the score of the inefficiency
of Government - run concerns the
Socialists have chanted triumphantly
“What about the post-office?” and
quoted the profits earned by the Govern-
ment monopoly in postage-stamps and
phone-calls. That talking-point no longer
has any validity ; under Donal’S manage-
ment the post-office has joined other Gov-
ernment instrumentalities in presenting
the taxpayer with a deficit —estimated at
£3,500,000 this year, and, but for the
whacking increase in rates just an-
nounced, £6,000,000 next year. Cameron’s
excuse: “The inescapable extra costs of
labor and materials.” Much of the “in-
escapable” cost of labor is due to the
40-hour week, which the P.M.G., along
with his colleagues, was certain the
economy of the country could bear.
During the years when the post-office
was showing a thumping profit the Trea-
surer hungrily scooped it all into con-
solidated revenue, thus making a taxing
machine of what should have been a
public utility. Faced this year with a
deficit he hastens to make the public pay
the cost, although his Treasury coffers
are brimful of tax-money in excess of his
“estimates.”
It was remarked here last week that
even so humorless a body as the New
South Wales “Labor” caucus could hardly
accept the proposal for a ban on Press
and radio comment at election time. This
was a misjudgment; apparently there are
no lengths to which the McGirrs won’t
go in an attempt to cling to office.
Pointing out that the McGirr attack
on the freedom of the Press would mean
that politicians would enjoy freedom of
speech right up to polling-day while
political writers an 4 radio-commentators
would be denied that liberty, Menzies de-
scribed the ban as “crazy and lopsided.”
The description fits the measure admir-
ably, but no more so than it does most
of “Labor’s” recent enactments. For that
matter it is a pretty good description of
what the “Labor” party has become.
Party politics in Victoria continue to
be more like a game of beggar-my-
neighbor than a serious attempt to grapple
with the problems of a modern State.
The McDonald-Dunstan Country party
seems to be in virtual alliance with Cain
“Labor” in the campaign for the Legisla-
tive Council elections a fortnight hence,
yet in the Federal sphere some kind of
agreement has been reached between the
L.C.P. and Country party. A joint ticket
will be run for the Senate, though details
are still to be worked out, and sitting
members of each party in the Reps, will
be given a clear field with the support
of both parties. This accounts for only
six of the country seats; there is to be
more yanging to see if further triangular
contests can be avoided.
The Privy Council is now considering
the evidence in the Bank Grab Case. The
hearing occupied 36 sitting days, of which
Dr. Evatt held the floor for 22. If the
Government’s case took as long as that
to explain it must be very, very good—
or very, very bad.
Chifley used the pressure-of-Govern-
ment-business excuse to clamp down on
“Grievance Day” last week although it
was obvious that the real reason was a
desire to prevent Menzies’s Secret Ballots
Bill from coming before, the House. With
a large and growing section of the
“Labor” movement urging the introduc-
tion of something of the sort, a debate on
the question would be most embarrassing
to the Government just at present, and if
there is anything Chif. wants to avoid
for the next few months it’s embarrass-
ment.
There being no Asian immigrant to
abuse last week, Calwell turned on Ader-
mann, C.P. member for Maranoa, quot-
ing serious charges against him penned by
an “informant” whose name he refused
to disclose. In the censure debate which
arose out of the incident the Prime
Minister attempted to justify the attack
by claiming that Opposition members had
made similar if not worse attacks on
“Labor” men. He said for his part he
was prepared to see the provisions for
“privilege” wiped out altogether. That
is neither an answer nor a cure. Abuse
of privilege can only be stopped by an
improvement in the standards of decency
among members themselves or by their
leaders compelling a greater respect for
it. It is too much to expect the first
from Calwell or the second from Chifley.
“He-Ne” is full of interrogation:
If N.S.W. wheatgrowers aren’t asking some
searching questions about the extraordinary
antics that preceded ; accompanied and followed
the inaugural meeting of that State’s Wheat
Committee —which is supposed to act for both
the Pollard “stabilisation” scheme and the
International Wheat Agreement, when and if
the latter becomes law —then they’re dumber
than they seem. The committee comprises four
growers’ reps and three selected by Minister
for Agriculture Graham. It met to elect two of
its members to the Australian Wheat Board.
Before that the Farmers and Settlers’ Associa-
tion, which virtually elected the four grower-
members from its ranks, held a council meeting
to select the two most suitable. Who wants to
bet that H. S. Roberton, F. and S.A. president,
one of the growers’ doughtiest fighters, wasn’t
a most popular vote? Yet, when the wheat
committee met, all four nominated themselves,
and after two ballots Messrs. Doolan and
O’Neill were elected. This can only mean that
the Government men voted solidly against
Roberton, incidentally the C.P, candidate for
Riverina in the next Federal election. I want
to know why the F. and S.A. men all
nominated, though its Council wanted but two?
What will the politically powerful F. and S.A.
do about it? Was the F. and S.A. outsmarted
by the Minister? Do the growers realise what
the loss of Roberton from the Australian Wheat
Board means? I’m now going out to pluck
saffron thistles with my bare hands, since self-
flagellation is frowned upon in this country.
Another Comrade is going to Europe
for orders—Seamen’s Union secretary
Elliott is off to attend meetings of the
Communist-controlled W.F.T.U. in Milan
and Marseilles. After which, presumably,
he will get together with Thonnton and
Dixon and the three will have a good
old powwow on how much better con-
ditions are in Russia, Czechoslovakia and
other Iron Curtain countries than in Aus-
tralia. And after that all three will beat
it back home as fast as they can.
Britain’s Labor party is spending a
week at Blackpool trying to thrash out a
policy that will win the next election. The
conference will be largely a fight between
the socialisers who advocate a policy of
grab everything and hang the conse-
quences, and those who want to coast
along on present gains until after the
election. In the latter group is mystery-
story writer G. D. H. Cole, who thinks
“a period of economic consolidation is
necessary,” though he wants the trading
banks nationalised right away. He re-
grets that the party executive “seems to
have forgotten the spiritual needs of the
Socialist salt of the earth.” Apparently
Cole and his kind think that the spiritual
needs of the Socialist salt of the earth
can best be satisfied with other people’s
sugar.
Chifley, as an avid reader of thrillers,
js doubtless familiar with Cole’s crime
stories, even if he has not read his works
on sociology and economics. Perhaps he
could brief him to solve Canberra’s
current mystery: whb spilt the beans
about the post-and-telephone increases
before Cabinet told caucus about them?
N. S. Wales Mines Minister Baddeley
has been touring the northern coalfields.
His objects were twofold: “To talk to
the miners about production” and to “re-
ceive deputations.” Before leaving
Sydney he said that he did not expect a
general strike and thought better judg-
ment would prevail. “At this stage par-
ticularly we don’t want industrial trouble
on the coalfields.” Why at this stage par-
ticularly? The consumers —and that in-
cludes directly or indirectly almost every-
one in Australia —don’t want trouble there
at any time. But perhaps it’s different
with politicians—in election-year parti-
cularly. *
After the Menzies suspension some of
the “Labor” boys seemed a little abashed.
It was almost as if they suspected a trick.
Possibly they were thinking it was all a
Liberal plot to assist “the humanising of
Menzies.”
“S, M. Herald” published an expan-
sive reply by Warwick Fairfax to Mc-
Girr’s attack on the Press, coincident with
the N.S.W. Government’s proposal for
a pre-election gagging of political com-
ment. A concluding sentence is: “The
‘Herald’... . will continue to comment
on all matters of national interest as
frankly and fearlessly as in the past.”
From which it may be deduced that Mc-
Girr has been warned.
With McKenna at last plucking up
courage to proclaim—July 1 is the date —
his revised “free”-medicine scheme as a
challenge to the doctors, the B.M.A. re-
torts with demand for a full and im-
partial inquiry on the disclosures of how
a national medical service has been oper-
ating in the Northern Territory, including
charges of disgraceful neglect by Govern-
ment officials, and “apparently deliberate
Ministerial and departmental suppression
of unpleasant facts.”
In the Goulbum Valley of Victoria
oranges are rotting because growers can’t
get rid of them at ss. a case. In Sydney
about the best you can do in oranges,
retail, is five a bob.
Army Minister Chambers has a new
plan for the country’s defence. Volun-
teer cadet detachments are to be affiliated
with adult volunteer military units. This,
he says, will “enable potential recruits for
the Regular Army and the C.M.F. to
continue training.” The consternation of
an enemy when Chambers’s potential
recruits are hurled into the fray may
well be imagined.
Chifley, again haunted by a possible
“recession” both of tax money and
“Labor” votes, was predicting it again
last Thursday and weighed in with the
wearisome old cry: “Some members here
have very vivid memories of the last de-
pression, and they know what it is to go
and get the dole.” The dole was all the
“Labor” Governments, headed by Lang’s
in N.S.W. and Scullin’s in Canberra, had
to offer, and, judging by Chifley’s lack of
practical productive planning, all he will
have to offer if a similar slump occurs
while his party is in power.
Answering a question in the Represen-
tatives, Holloway said that strikes in Aus-
tralian secondary industries for the 12
months ended March 31 involved the loss
of 348,349 man-days—nearly 1000 years.
The Socialist boosters of “prosperity”
under Chifley don’t count this as unem-
ployment.
When news of the Chifley proposal to
grab the trading banks burst on the
nation, Denman-Singleton Pastures Pro-
tection Board sent out circulars urging
that a referendum be held on the question.
At this, Graham, “Labor” Minister for
Agriculture in N.S.W., accused the P.P.
Board of misusing its funds. As the
“Shire and Municipal Record” puts it ;j
He wrote them letters, sent accountants to
Singleton to' find out what it cost and
finally surcharged it to the directors. Still
the board wouldn’t pay up. Last month
the Comptroller of the Treasury served
notice on the board’s secretary to deduct
the amount from the directors’ travelling
fees. To save further bother, chairman
Clendinning will pay the whole amount
himself from the £36 15s. he has not drawn
for travelling fees over the past three years.
It will cost him £1 Is. 7d.
And presumably permit the Minister to
sleep at night. But what would have
happened had the board spent a fiver on
circulars supporting the bank grab? It’s
only a few years since Federal “Labor”
charged up some of the party’s refer-
endum-campaign outlay to “education”
in the public accounts.
Brisbane “Courier-Mail” coined a good
phrase to describe the increased postage
rates: “Taxing by Post.”
Hanlon’s Education Minister Bruce
made the profound discovery last week
that the “main reason for the drift to the
cities was the arrival of the mechanical
age.” True or not, the mechanical age
will yet drive the people back to the
country if they are to survive.
In an attempt to justify the steep rise
in phone rentals the Prime Minister said
that in the last 10 years the number of
telephones had increased from 631,000
to 1,005,000, so that a subscriber now had
facilities for communicating with an addi-
tional 374,000 people. With a cor-
responding growth of wrong numbers and
“engaged” signals!
Until last week, if a naval man decided
to ship land-legs, he could apply to the
Naval Board to buy his discharge. Now,
by a ruling of “Labor’s” Navy Minister
Riordan, applications for discharge will
be considered only “on compassionate
grounds.” Would membership of an
A.L.P. branch be sufficient?
' The changed situation in China making
Hong Kong’s position doubtful, Britain’s
Defence Minister flew there to look into
things for himself. He will also look over
other British Far East defences. The
changed situation in China means more
to Australia than to Britain, but none of
our “Service” Ministers has stirred a foot
out of Canberra. It’s hard to get chilly
feet moving.
From Molongloside:
Village-pump gossip suggests (1) that the
present session will end in a fortnight or a
little more; (2) that the House will then adjourn
till the end of August—there is a Premiers’
Conference called for mid-August and the
Houses are unlikely to meet for a fortnight
after that; (3) the new session, from Septem-
ber onwards, will be devoted to window-
dressing for the elections, handling whatever
legislation is necessary; (4) polling-day will be
not earlier than December 3; it might even be
deferred until the new year. There is not now
much money on an early election.


SOCIETY
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WINBLES.INKS"
“Mac Hoots”: I sjng the milkman’s
boy; and I sing more in sorrow than in
anger, and more for his sake than mine.
This lank and lugubrious youth is for-
bidden by his union, so he tells me, ter
carry the milk from the street to the
second-floor of the flats where we live,
so we leave the billy at the street-entrance,
and there he leaves the milk. And this
I find—conceivably—reasonable ; boys
must not be wearied by having to climb
stairs. But on Saturday mornings, when
he is required to collect the money, the
lad does trudge the stairs . . . but leaves
the billy of milk behind him down at the
front-entrance. This I find fantastic,
monstrous, an absurd inconvenience to
my long-suffering wife and a grievous
peril to the soul of the milkman’s boy.
He is a sad youth when one meets him
on Saturdays; lie knows he is not be-
having chivalrously. And he is a sullen
youth, for the consciousness of his chur-
lishness makes him defiant. Taught by
his union to be slavish in his obedience
to its rules and to regard his customers
as his enemies, with his natural good-
nature stifled and his natural cheerful-
ness soured, what hope can there be for
this unlucky boy? This is unionism
gone mad; and the milkman’s boy is
already, I fear, spilt milk.
* * * *
“Meekatharra”: Many years ago I
bought a copy of The Decameron and
felt rather frustrated to find that one
story lapsed into Italian just at the stage
where it became most interesting. I felt
like shooting the publishers, just as I feel
like shooting anyone who tries to tell
me what I may or may not read. At
the moment I should like to drop the
editor of Sydney’s “Sunday Sun.” He
published an episode from The Naked
and the Dead, but the type used for
words stronger than a mild expletive was
“battered” to make them illegible. I
haven’t the faintest idea what the muti-
lated words were, but a considerable
amount of print was tantalisingly illeg--
ible. Editors who allow that sort of
thing should be mrgn shmm
* * * *
“Coongan”: ,On a wintry morning last
week, the Spit, one of the loveliest and
most tranquil places around Sydney, was
the scene of the city’s worst bus disaster
—the first fatal one since buses were in-
troduced. The bus, a double-decker,
bound from Manly to St. Leonards, had
negotiated the twists and turns on the
steep hillside leading down to the Spit
until it came to the last turn that leads
on to the approach to the bridge. The
approach is cut into a hill—a small cliff
rises on the right,, and on the other side
there is a sheer drop to the old road that
led down to the punt in the days before
the bridge. For reasons yet undetermined
the bus failed to straighten out after the
turn, continued to veer left, tore away
the safety-fence and crashed down 25ft.,
landing upside-down with an impact that
crushed-in the upper deck. Four women,
including a 21-year-old expectant mother,
were killed and 33 injured, some of them
seriously. Rescuers, including police,
ambulance men, members of a near-by
road-gang and residents of adjacent
houses, did sterling work while 14
ambulances carried the victims to hos-
pitals at Manly and North Sydney. Ex-
perts from the Police and Transport De-
partments are investigating the cause of
the disaster.
*** . *
“S.D.”: So far as lam concerned Rita
Hayworth and Ali Khan, now swimming
in champagne on Rita’s third honeymoon
and Ali’s second, can get married or
jump in lakes of champagne as often as
they like. I comment merely on the
somewhat paradoxical handling of the
affair by Sydney “Daily Mirror” and its
big brother, “Truth.” The “Mirror”
staunchly placarded the town during the
week with “Rita-Ali Wedding, Fantastic
Ballyhoo”; and the idea behind this
poster is that the “Mirror,” whife giving
the celebrations front-page publicity, an-
nounces at the same time that it thinks
the publicity is ridiculous. So you can’t
catch the “Mirror” out —it is firmly on
the side of marital decorum and sober
and decorous news-items. “Truth”
startled the Sabbath with “Rita-Ali
Wedding” and then, in smaller type,
“Vulgarity” ; proving that you can’t catch
“Truth” out either: it is sternly denounc-
ing its own front-page. This is the only
occasion when I have been able to per-
ceive any similarity between “Truth” and
Spenser’s “Faerie Queene” ; but the trick
of writing luridly about sex to interest
your public, and at the same time de-
nouncing it so as to be safe, is not a new
one.
* * * *
“Clooter”: These fictioneers who make
the beautiful spy swallow the incriminat-
ing message written on a cigarette-paper
when the secret-service man catches up
with her on page 342 will have to watch
their steps. A decision may come out of
a Dallas (Texas) court this week which
will permit the s.s. man to arrest the
girl’s stomach and have it searched,
though whether it will be necessary to
have the girl there at the same time de-
pends on the advance of modern science.
In Texas a man convicted of possessing
narcotics has filed a writ of habeas
corpus, saying that the evidence against
him was obtained when his stomach was
forcibly pumped out by a police doctor.
He fainted during the pumping, and
police later told him they had got several
grains of heroin from his insides. As
he was unconscious when this was done,
he says he was deprived of the right of
someone to be present when*his belong-
ings or premises were being searched
under warrant. Doubtless the most
hardened bewchus spy would be rattled
if an s.s. man shoved in her face a warrant
to search her tummy.
*•* % #
Bookworm”: Sydney Municipal
Library gets plenty of dollars for Ameri-
can orders, which are almost completely
filled, whereas orders for British books are
only two-thirds satisfied. In 1948 Adam
Smith’s Wealth of Nations and Spengler’s
Decline of the West found quite as many
“Hell miss the train again this morning."
readers as Eckels and Callaway’s con-
temporary thriller, Modern Mortuary
Science, which went out from 10 to 20
times during the year. Winter raises issues
by 10,000, high and low being 42,000 in
July and 32,000 in December; more
than 250,000 people used the newspaper
files in 1948 ; and 18,616 reserve cards
were issued, showing a certain amount of
interest and a great deal of patience
among would-be readers of books in
heavy demand. The library is technically
free, but in 1948 it collected £2479 in fines
—£3BB more than the State subsidy—and
did it so efficiently that of half a million
issues only 46 were outstanding at the
end of the year. The annual report admits
1618 books “Missing frpm Stock.” Who-
ever got away with them must be smart;
how anyone could get out through that
narrow channel and past those eagle-eyed
librarians carrying an unentered book is
a puzzle I have never been able to solve.
I wonder if the Municipal Library has a
book on it?
* * * *
“Yipe”: British phillumenists, folk
who avow to be “lovers of light” and
show it by collecting matchbox covers,
have been appealing to the Council of
Industrial Design. Their plea is that all
the finer jnatchbox-cover designs come
from overseas, that English designs do
not constitute art, and have been in a
“dull, unimaginative rut” for years. To
gain public support in the matter an exhi-
bition was arranged by the British Match-
box Label and Booklet Society, the main
exhibitor being the society’s president,
who owns to 63,000 labels, but sadly
admits that a Berlin collector beats him
by 22,000. The exhibition was going
along nicely when suddenly an uproar
was heard. A cluster of agitated citizens
was found regarding a very early label on
which a hotel had advertised: “Lager
beer, 6d. quart; best Scotch whisky, 3s.
bottle ; three-course lunch, Is.”
* * * *
“Brolga”: As a truck-driver operating
in a city area much populated by New
Australians, I have been getting an in-
teresting insight into their business
methods. In dealings with established
Australian firms they follow’ the usual
practices; a quick check of the number
of packages for delivery is sufficient. But
when one firm of New Australians re-
ceives goods from another the fun starts.
Each package is opened and checked,
rolls of material are measured and
checked with invoices before a receipt is
signed. And when a concern composed
mainly of Central Europeans finds that
it has been done in the eye by a firm
hailing from slightly off-centre and the
principals argue the point in the broken
English that is rapidly becoming the
“lingua franca” of King’s Cross—well,
even Arthur Calwell wouldn’t be able
to hide a grin.
* * * ♦
“Spot’s Boss”: I can believe all that
occurred in “Coongan’s” vicinity the
night his offspring let off the hungers (B.
1/6/’49), except the bit about the
neighbor’s dog clearing out. Every hound
I ever met or owned got right off his
bike about crackers and went for them
with hackles up and teeth bared. Spot
once caught a jumping-jack on the
second bang and worried and chivvied
the thing all over the place while it ex-
ploded in his mouth, face, ears and else-
where. There is, of course, that now-
classic picture, drawn from fact, of a
foxy barking at the shell-bursts on Gal-
lipoli, In the London blitzes the dogs
seldom worried • about a single bomb—it
was the continual uproar of bombs, ack-
ack and sirens that broke their nerve
and sent them shivering into shelter. But
for the smaller things like crackers the
average dog either displays contempt or
a desire to chaw them up. Of course,
“Coongan’s” neighbor’s dog could have
been one of those pampered suburban .
affairs for which some dog-shows give
prizes in the class designated “neuter.”
* * * *
“Spike”: “Plop’s” interest in Ameri-
can festivals (B. 1/ 6 / ’49) should have
led him to the fact that U.S. planners of
these special days recently declared that
in future National Noise Abatement
Week and National Baby Week will run
concurrently from May 1.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: For some reason that
I’ve never been able to track down the
average Aussie connects luck with China-
men. One Sydney punter I knew ad-
mitted that when the books were getting
tough he made a special trip out to
Botany to put two bob in the joss-house
collection-box. He swore by the results.
But another friend has cast away the
superstition. At the races he was doing
a few quid and not complaining about
it; his wife had lost a few shillings and
was whingeing loudly and long. In the
middle of her lament he saw a China-
man pushing through the crowd.
“Listen,” !he counselled, “go and rub
against Charlie; that’ll change your
luck.” The good lady wasted no time
in retrieving her fortune. Mingling with
the crush, she worked up to the Oriental
and not only rubbed against him but
definitely bumped him. The Chinese
span round ; for a second he looked be-
wildered, then flashed a golden smile.
“It’s no use rubbin’ agin me, lady,” he
said in perfect Australian. “I done a
‘spin’ on the last three races meself,”
* * * *
“Nunk”: I was surprised to find a
literary friend of mine, of no noticeable
moral fibre, poring over an announce-
ment of The Second Original Temper-
ance Poem Competition, Sponsored by
the Women’s Christian Temperance
Union. “It’s in four sections,” he said,
“and I’m entering my kids, beginning with
little Mokie in the Junior Section, nine
years and under;
Mummy, Poppa’s on the hops!—
We’ll get a lot of bottle-tops!
Lyrical, see? Typical of a child of that
age, don’t you think? Lydia goes in
for the Intermediate Section, 10, 11 and
12, when they get thoughtful and sen-
tentious :
Father, restrict your little child
To daily pints of old-and-mild.
Kids are a bit priggish at that age. In
the Senior Section, 13, 14 and 15, some-
thing more practical will be expected:
Never take your booze to school,
They’ve got no ice to keep it cool,
And if you offer it to teacher
• He drinks the lot and then he beats yer.
That’s one for young John. I’m putting
myself into the Adult Section, a sort of
elegiac, sad, admonitory mood, like Kip-
ling’s If:
When I am not at home to watch,
My son,
Beware the sideboard full of Scotch —
It’s fun,
To drink; I know you love
A spree;
But what I get is just enough
For me.
“I didn’t know,” I said, passing the
tongue lightly over the lips, “that you
had a sideboard full of Scotch.” “Poetic
licence,” my friend said ; “poetic licence.
SHE TOLD HIM.
“A man was fined £l2 in the Melbourne City
Court lot putting his arm round a woman in Russell-
street and murmuring ‘Where are you going, love?'
She happened to be a policewoman in plain-clothes
who promptly ran him in.
“Where are you going, love?” How many a
meeting
Of kindred souls upon this tune was played!
I’ll venture it was just the sort of greeting
.That King Cophetua gave the beggar-maid.
Where are you going, love?” With such
requesting
He looped an arm around her waistline slim,
Assured her fluttering notice of arresting—
Contrariwise, ’twas she arrested him.
“Where are you going, love?” What rich
romances
In history begin with words like these!
’Twas thus with Iseult Tristram took his
chances
Belike, and Abelard with Heloise.
The vital point, of course, consists in knowing
Whom you’ve to deal with. Here, you may
infer,
’Twas she who guided him where he was going,
Not he who gallantly escorted her.
“Where are you going, love?” he cooed with
unction.
Ignoring that it wasn’t his affair.
Professionally and without compunction
She gave her answer straight—and took him
there.
He’s left to muse that as a casual lover
His predatory impulses must stop,
And chew the rag for failing to discover
The dame he worded was a plain-clothes cop.
N.S.W.
Iford.


TW3ST
THt' R
/>NV)
Facts you should know in the
interests of your Estate & your Dependants.
The informative booklet, “Trust Estates and Their Management,”
has been compiled to acquaint you with the facts and problems
connected with choosing your Executor and Trustee. This is a
matter which every prudent man must consider at some time. It
is a decision which vitally affects the welfare of your dependants,
and is therefore one about which every person should be fully
informed.
Write to-day for your copy of this free booklet ... or call and
discuss the matter personally with one of our Executive Officers.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond, Chairman
F. H. Way, Vice-Chairman
Cecil H. Doyle F. W. Hixson, 0.8. E., V.D.
G. Moncrieff Barron, 0.8. E., M.B.CH.M.,
F.R.A.C.S. J. R. Faviell
Manager: N. L. Shaw
Asst. Manager: C. N. P. Whittle
Sub. Manager: S. U. White
Secretary: F, R, Garland
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. «f N.S.W. LID.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET. SYDNEY. N.S.W.
PT.Ii.IJS
“Oliver Filter”: Australia now gets a
small ration of excellent Continental films
—French mainly—but, knowing our
censors, I’m afraid there are some we
shall never see. A Gallic version of
Jonson’s “Volpone” has been doing the
rounds in New York and receiving good
notices, but I wouldn’t like to bet on its
chances of getting into Australia —even
a mild stage version was viewed with
some concern by the authorities in Syd-
ney. Now I see that Gabriel,Chevallier’s
delightful novel, Clochemerle , has been
filmed in France, and even the broad-
minded French are a trifle stirred.
When it was shown at Tence the Mayor
arrived “and protested loudly for three
hours against the screening of the film.”
The audience finally hooted or jeered him
out of the place, but next morning he
arrived with a gang of workmen and
wrecked the theatre, the only one in the
town. The incident proves, if anything,
the wonderful accuracy with which
Chevallier portrayed the village char-
acters in his novel.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: The ruling of a Chicago court
that seven policewomen who had been
sacked for having falsified their ages
should get their jobs back on the ground
that the female sex has a hereditary right
to fib on that subject moved me to con-
sult the Australian Who’s Who to see if
such reticence is peculiar to classes. I
found that, generally speaking, women
distinguished in science, literature and
social service, like Kate Baker, 0.8. E.,
who championed Joseph Furphy ; Edith
Baker, the R.A.A.F, matron; Daisy
Bates, the friend of the abo.; Ada
Beveridge, first director of the Women’s
Land Army; the Hon. Camilla Hilde-
garde Wedgwood, anthropologist; Mar-
jorie Barnard and Katharine Susannah
Prichard —none of these mind admitting
to their birth-date. Likewise Nancy Bird,
the flier, and singers Amy Castles and
Marjorie Lawrence. Actresses keep a dis-
creet silence, and maintain it apparently
out of habit even when they have
reached a great age. I would have ex-
pected painters to put their prestige in
their pictures, but they are the most
reticent of any of the classes except
champion tennis-players. Males are
generally not shy regarding their
age, but two politicians who seem to
have forgotten when they were born are
Albert Dunstan and Federal Labor
Minister E. J. Holloway.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: I agree with Tyrone
Guthrie that the first step towards a
National Theatre is audience-education.
There should be a chair on the subject
at one of the universities, with a professor
to instil into student audiences a proper
reverence for and knowledge of the
drama. He could show them that Shak-
speare used four times as many split in-
finitives as Henry Lawson, that a statistical
analysis of Love Me, Sailor, reveals a
definite preference for words of one
syllable—a preference probably due to the
influence of climate —and that “Hamlet”
would have been a better play if its
author had had the benefits of a uni-
versity education. Despite his extreme
age, his failing eyesight, his defective
hearing, his tic and his recurrent attacks
of indigestion, the result of a lifetime ex-
perience of the drama, during which he
has seen approximately 5000 plays, of
which at least 10 were well above the in-
tellectual age of seven, Professor Cauboy
is ready to accept the position.
* * * *
“Youanmi”: Until now the conse-
quences of the deed have deterred me
from murdering my wife, but 1 have lately
seen at least two indications that my
prospects are improving. In Paris, a
laborer who disposed of a nagging missus
by heaving her out of an upper window
was given a suspended sentence of five
“My dear , whoever informed you that I desire your return has an
extraordinary sense of humor. Good night”
years—“the court let him go free because
it was his first offence.” I am even more
encouraged by a report from America of
the trial of a Chinese houseboy, accused
of strangling his employer, a wealthy San
Francisco widow. Despite strong circum-
stantial evidence against him the accused
was acquitted because the jurors believed
his lawyer’s testimony that “he could not
be guilty because, traditionally, no
Chinese who had worked in the United
States had ever murdered his employer.”
Immediately after the trial the houseboy
hotfooted it for a ship to lose himself in
the comfortable obscurity of his native
China.
* * * ♦
“Ray Whiting”: The sing-song invo-
cations of the local Arab vicar rang with
incredible clarity for miles from his pul-
pit on the slopes of great Mount Taubel,
in Syria. The queer timbre carried
far above the sounds of Blue, outside the
tent, wogging a blanket for a dozen
Almaza, and the mad descent of Free
French trucks down the frozen hill past
our dump. We wished we could under-
stand the vivid chanting, which we sus-
pected might involve matters other than
prayers, for here was a first-rate bush-
telegraph. The Wogs knew far more of
our future doings than we did ; when
the sudden order came to leave Syria the
Wogs moaned tearful farewells. We told
them this was good news, and we were
going home. They burst into fresh sobs
and a most definite “No! No! Rom-
mel! Egypt! You go boom, boom!”
And “boom, boom” it was.
« * * *
“Jed Ward”; “Verast”s par. (B.
11/5/’49) concerning the schoolmaster
who tried to solve the fighting problem
reminds me of the old dominie who
directed my reluctant footsteps along the
path of knowledge. He had a novel but
effective way of punishing the authors
of those disturbances which break out
whenever a master has to leave the room.
He would first invite the culprit to own
up. If no one did so he would give six
of the best to the toughest and most
pugnacious boy in the room with the ad-
vice to hand the punishment on to the
right party. It was a rough-and-ready
form of justice, but it worked. It was
far, far better to take what the master
had to give than to have the daylight
belted out of you.
* * * *
“V. Cluse”: My neighbor lives in a
rented house with a small garage.
Offered a good price for his old single-
seater car he sold it and bought
a new sedan. Then he found that
the garage was 6in. too narrow
for the' streamliner. Being a handy-
man he proposed to knock one
wall down and rebuild it, with the neces-
sary roof extension. In other days he’d
have simply told the owner and done the
work some week-end. Not today. Now
he has to submit plans and specifications,
with estimates, to the council and
to the Housing Commission and to the
Department of Building Materials, all or
any of whom can alter the plans or refuse
him permission to do the work. In addi-
tion, the D. of B.M. can refuse him per-
mission to buy extra bricks, tiles and
cement. ' His new car must stand out in
all weathers until his papers pass like a
glacier along these official channels. A
“Labor” supporter, he seems to think it’s
all Menzies’s fault,
* * * *
“S.”; N. S. Wales’s Acting Transport
Minister, Mr. Sheahan, is supposed to be
holding an inquiry into the motor-cycle
accidents which are killing three or four
young fellows every week-end. If the
Minister wants to study the week-end
accident problem as a whole, let him
drive any Sunday from Sydney to
Katoomba and back. The four causes
will display themselves before him: (1)
the motor-cyclists, all travelling faster
than the cars, weaving recklessly in and
out of the stream of traffic ; (2) a few car-
drivers up to the same trick; (3) a few
ancient cars, week-end specials, and a
few of the trucks that are such a menace
during the week, crawling up the hills
and causing hold-ups that tempt other
drivers to take risks; and (4) from
Penrith on, a string of pubs and road-
houses, each with scores of cars parked
outside and, inside, the drivers of those
cars spending the entire Sunday after-
noon drinking. The remedies are
obvious : more and stricter police patrols
to enforce the existing laws against
dangerous driving—which should include
obstructing the traffic —and the repeal of
the fantastic licensing law which allows
“travellers” to drink on Sundays.
* » » •
“Flathead”: With Bunnerong hic-
coughing ominously, Sydney faces a
bleak, blackout winter. The only bright
spot in the miserable outlook seems to
be at King’s Cross, where a dressmaker
has managed to turn the power failures
to advantage. With unreliable lighting
at the back of her shop, she has moved
her staff up close to the front and decked
them in finery appropriate to her estab-
lishment. Now the well-informed bus-
and tram-traveller passing that way to
work lays down his paper and gazes at
the five young goddesses sewing in the
morning sunlight, and wishes they made
suits there.
• * * * *
“Jurutulis”; Discovery of a human leg
in a Sydney shark’s stomach hadn’t the
romantic elements of the recent discovery,
in pickle, in Tokyo’s Red Cross Hospital
of the right leg of Prince Okuma, a
once-famous elder-statesman. An assas-
sin flung a bomb at the prince in 1890,
and the prince’s leg needed amputating.
Being a member of the Royal Family,
the operation would be a sacrilegious
act, but a Dr. Hashimoto was found who
was prepared to risk eternal damnation
by performing it. Afterwards a bulletin
was issued stating that the leg had been
blown off. The facts were recorded
in the doctor’s diary, since discovered,
along with the leg, and Waseda Uni-
versity is organising a grand democratic
banquet to celebrate the occasion.
* * * *
“Bo”: Admittedly, the sun, at 8.30
a.m., didn’t have that burning quality it
possesses at the same hour in a January
scorcher. Still, it was shining brightly
f enough for this time of year, but its
effulgence, when I reached our outer
Sydney suburban station, was being chal-
lenged by the 30 or so lights which the
railway authorities with great ingenuity
have had placed in such a way as to
ensure the greatest possible waste com-
bined with the least possible use. I
pointed out to a porter that travellers
might, in view of the fact that the sun
had been up for an hour and a half, be
able to grope their way to the platforms
without the aid of this auxiliary lighting.
I made the bold suggestion that he switch
them off. This, however, was not so
easy. It seemed he had not the personal
authority, though he graciously conceded
that, should he chance to meet a person
with the requisite power to save power,
he might feel disposed, should he still re-
member it, to apprise him of the situa-
tion. But lam not without gratitude;
it did serve to remind me to bring home
some candles and try to get a quart of
kero, for the hurricane-lamp and the
room-warmer. I expect the usual two-
hour blackout tonight.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”; War isn’t the only
occupation in which socks can be a dis-
advantage (B. 18/5/’49). Clearing in the
Westralian wheatbelt, we “chop-down”
during winter and burn-off after the fol-
lowing harvest. On ash-covered ground
it is difficult to see where a stump has
burnt below ground-level, and a boot
submerged in hot ashes can inflict pain-
ful injuries unless it is quickly removed.
During the burning season clearers wear
their boots unlaced and often discard
socks. A bootful of hot ashes is pain-
ful ; smouldering sock is worse.
CALWELL’S OF HATE.
Say, did you catch that burst of objurgation,
That angry storm of words that sting and
smirch
Strongly suggestive of the commmation
Service you may have sometimes heard in
church?
Is it some Communist anathematising
All who less wild and woolly creeds profess?
No, son, it’s merely Mr. Calwell rising
In wrath to blast all forms of criticising
Directed at him by or through the Press.
To hitting hard himself he’s no objection;
Yet one might think, to hear him snort and
bray,
The mildest censure launched in his direction
Is what the French would call lese majeste.
His patriotic aims he’s fond of booming,
His high ideals he’ll miss no chance to stress.
Withal it sets him furiously fuming,
The bare idea of anyone presuming
To queer his pitch—especially the Press.
To keep our country white is an emphatic
Need and desideratum, none gainsay;
It might be done, though, in a less fanatic
And rigidly uncompromising way.
But ever, when rebuked and blamed for marring
Our good-relations record through excess
Of ego in his cosmos, always jarring,
Calwell. you’ll note, has no rejoinder barring
A blizzard of invective at the Press.
Of all the orgies of vituperation,
The diatribes from an envenomed pen,
The savage outbursts of denunciation
We get from Canberra every now and then,
The samples of vociferous aspersing,
There’s one that you can always place, I guess,
And that’s when Calwell sets himself to cursing
His contumacious critics and rehearsing
The hymn of hate he’s fashioned for the Press.
■N.S.W.
T. THE R.


ABOEIGINlities
“Vivigani”: Those who spent leisure
hours in New Guinea collecting butter-
flies, and mutilating mosquito-nets to
further the venture, will recognise in
“that appalling photograph of a spider
devouring a moth” (Red Page,
18/5/’49) the beautiful green-and-black
bird-wing butterfly without which no
good collection was complete. It was the
male that caught the eye ; a band of vivid
emerald ran round the wing and the rest
was velvet black, with a thin’ strip of jet
lining the green on the leading edge ; and
the abdomen was orange. This insect
spanned a mere 7in,; the female was
oyer Bin., but mostly brown, and when
flitting about the pink blossoms that
crowned certain of those jungle trees was
bigger than some of the birds similarly
occupied. This and the beautiful blue
swallow-tail were the most sought-after
butterflies; in some places both, were
rare—which might explain why some of
the prices obtained by amateur entomo-
logists for these from the Americans
would have satisfied some Sydney taxi-
drivers. Any of us whose interest went
deep enough found McKeown, whose
book was reviewed, always able and wil-
ling to identify our wogs, and if he got
any benefit from our scrounging he was
welcome to it. The blue swallow-tail
was common in the Trobriands, whilst
around our camp on Goodenough
Island the green fellows were tuppence a
dozen. The spider—a bare Bjin. long—
that gave the the shudders used
to spin his web across jungle paths, and
when the accursed things dragged around
your neck you thought you’d walked into
a booby-trap. They weren’t easy to see ;
the light was patchy under there. That
photograph was taken with a flashlight
on a fine mid-afternoon. I took it.
* * * *
“Columba”: Those Queensland crows
are wise, right enough (B. 4/5/’49). A
bachelor outside Gympie throws out stale
bread when the accumulation becomes
noticeable. The crows, unable to tackle
the brick-like lumps, carry them to the
horse-trough and wait till the pudding is
ready.
* * ’ * *
“Lower Tops!”: A cargo of 30 tons
of stone-screenings and sand has left
Melbourne in the lighthouse-service
steamer Cape York for Maatsuyker
Island, the southernmost habitation in the
"Serves yer right — I tooted me 'orn!"
Commonwealth, seven miles to the south-
ward of Tasmania. Although the two-
mile-long, 900 ft.-high island stands
across the path of the gales in the roar-
ing forties it contains no sandy beach,
or no stone other than the soft sandstone
of which it consists. The place is the
most dreary of lighthouse stations. Goats
won’t live on the rockbound slopes, and
formerly when cows were kept they were
required to be tethered to prevent their
blowing over the cliff. It even takes a
with a growth 3ft. high. In weed-like
profusion the vegetation grows—an alien
to the district, evidently introduced by
the Italian market-gardener who works
his little farm near by. Something about
this tangle of plant life fascinated me on
my return to the locality; I had seen the
species before, somewhere; and the scent
of it was vaguely familiar. Every time
I passed the spot the elusive answer
almost came to me —and was tantalisingly
gone before I could nail it down. Then
special strain of Leghorn to walk round
there in a gale, for the birds squat for
minutes before moving off, and then only
in the lulls. Manuka scrub and some
gums grow in the sheltered ravines where
the lightkeepers have gardens. The only
indigenous animal is a marsupial mouse.
But even Maatsuyker has its compensa-
tions. Fish, and in particular crayfish
and trumpeter, can be caught in plenty
anywhere off the steep-sloping shores.
Sometimes it may be three months before
a passing ship is seen.
* * * *
“Mud Skipper”: It is a remarkable
truth in nature that, while almost any
one breed of dog, cat, fowl or human
can be crossed with another breed in the
appropriate category, the same does not
apply to fish. Each species keeps strictly
to itself. Also, being one of the first of
the animate creatures to have a backbone
and teeth, its unique method of breathing
under water has enabled the fish to out-
live land animals, which were unable to
adopt themselves to changing conditions
asons ago. The shapes of fish have cer-
tainly changed, to allow for more speed,
or to stand higher water-pressures. But
it is significant that the construction of
the gills has never changed.
* * * *
“Bo”: The cyclone had roared out of
the south-west, cutting a swathe across
the countryside. McMurtrie’s place
seemed to be right in its path, but by
one of those freakish chances it veered
away, missing - Mac’s property by a
whisker. At the usual post-mortem after
its departure the heavy damage was
roughly assessed, and it was Mitchell,
McMurtrie’s neighbor, who remarked to
the kerbside gathering that not only had
Mac escaped all damage but that with
so many mulga-trees uprooted around
his place he’d now be saved the imminent
job of mulga-cutting to handfeed his 2000
sheep, the drought having been long and
severe. “Aw, I dunno I was that lucky,”
said Mac cautiously. “If the dam’
cyclone could only have ripped across
the top corner it would’ve saved me
havin’ to cut down thkt useless old
peppercorn! ”
*'* « *
“Horseless H.”: Sheepmen in the
Yarfam-Alberton district, just north of
Wilson’s Promontory, are concerned at
the loss of more than 2000 sheep during
the past few weeks by rustlers who lift
them by motor-truck. The men work at
night, take only the prime sheep, and
then only 20 or 30 out of each mob so
that the jumbucks are not missed until
an actual count is made. Police investiga-
tion has failed to find any trace of the
sheep-stealers, though one thing is
certain: some local is working in closely
with them.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: The creek has changed
very little in 25 years; the scrub on the
bank is a little thicker, perhaps, and the
big grey-box is now a waterlogged snag
in the brown stream. Apart from com-
paratively new decking the little bridge is
just the same as it was when I first saw
it. But there is something new about the
narrow road that leads down to the
approach: it is bordered on both sides
one day I idly crushed one of the green,
seeding heads. Instantly the puzzle was
solved. But what I want to know is:
Why weren’t the cattle in the adjacent
paddock breaking down the wires to get
at the enticing stuff? And the bunnies I
often saw feeding near'the creek —why
did they bother to eat grass when they
could have helped themselves to such a
luxury? Then there was a hare that
“ A nd her she gels no more on tick!"
frequented the flat—didn’t he know
about this! Why should animals be in-
terested about this strange growth? Be-
cause it is aniseed; and all my life I’ve
had drummed into me that all creatures
love it—mullet can’t resist dough with
aniseed worked through it; rabbits and
hares will run miles to get it; wild horses
can be soothed with it and savage dogs
pacified by its aroma, Sherlock Holmes
went farther still; he tracked a quarry
by spraying the wheel of a vehicle with
essence of aniseed, then putting his dog
on the scent.
* J * * *
“Solitude”: Seventyfiver had delivered
a mob down-country, and had just
arrived back. “Good trip?” I inquired,
“Awright,” he replied, chucking his
saddle on to its peg. “Decent feed at the
night camps. Count was right. Worst
was the last stretch. Roads ain’t too good
down there.” “What, between Dryazell
and Beer’s Flat? Go on, it’s a bonzer
road.” “Not like it used t’ be,” he
argued. “Thirty, forty year ago a bloke
c’d land a mob through there, with every
beast in good order. Can’t now. Had
nine or ten of ’em footsore the othbr
day, an’ draggin’ behind.” “But they say
that forty years ago that road was a
stretch of swamp where everything got
bogged.” “Aw, only if y’ walked on it,
it was,” he defended. “There was plenty
of good travellin’ on the slope round the
sides. Trouble is they went an’ put fences
along it. Man ain’t got any choice now,
and I tell y’ that road’s mighty narrer f’r
the mob in places. Still, that ain’t the
worst. It’s what they did to it. Gripes,
soon’s the silly cows down there get a
few bob they dunno what t’ do with, they
start puttin’ down another strip o’ their
road with slabs o’ concrete —yair, an’
fair where everything’s got to walk!”
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: Professional fishermen
don’t worry about sharks taking snapper
and other marketable fish off their hooks
(B. 11/5/’49). When they start to haul up
only heads they take a snapper, wrap a
spoonful of caustic soda in a bit of dry
brown paper, ram it down the throat of
the fish with a piece of broom-handle,
hook the fish to the line and drop it over
the side. They wait a few minutes and
put another over, continuing until
no more fish are taken. By that
time several sharks, each with a
40-horsepower belly - ache, are
shooting out of the water and turn-
ing fin-springs around the cutter,
shortly to float belly-up. Off Cape
Donnington, S.A., I saw a big-
game angler play a 10ft. white-
pointer shark for nearly two hours before
he gaffed it, and in the same area I
watched a professional fisherman turn
one almost twice the size into a dead ’un
in a few minutes by the caustic-soda
method.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: With all the avidity of a
curious woman I watched from my win-
dow the other morning a first-class row
in the flats across the road. They’re old
flats, somewhat weather-woj-n and in need
of attention, and I’m sure the rain gets
in here and there, but in these days ,of
shortages none of them is ever empty
and the occupants seem reasonably happy.
At least, they seemed so until this morn-
ing. Dunno what the row was about,
but it started in the top flat when the
boss and his missus got into holts on the
landing and tore at one another, shriek-
ing bad names at the tops of their voices.
One floor down a female stuck her head
out, yelled at them, then flew up and
hopped into the fight. Other residents of
both sexes soon joined in, and both inside
the top flat and on the landing there was
the best free-for-all, with no holds barred,
that I’ve seen for years. It was at its
height when a visitor arrived. What he
said I couldn’t catch in the general up-
roar, nor from my angle of observation
could I see the expression on his face,
but with one accord the brawlers fell
apart, took a deep breath, and fell upon
him in a raging, unanimous fury. He
somehow got out from under them and
went for his life. They chased him up
the road and round the corner, then gave
it up and returned, where they gathered
outside the top flat and held a sort of
Victory celebration. After which the
sparrows that inhabit the empty dovecot
on the pole across the road went forth in
search of breakfast.
* * * ‘ *
“Snaedi”; Tell “Betcha” (B. 18/5/’49)
that a greyhound-cattledog cross makes
the best rabbit-chaser for general pur-
poses, These mongs are rugged enough
to work all day and fast enough to catch
any rabbit at large. Greyhounds are too
fast, and in timber are likely to suffer
serious injury. I had an old cattle slut
which was much too slow to outpace any
rabbit in a fair race, yet when condi-
tions were favorable she captured more
than her share of the pests. In lightly-
timbered country covered with roly-poly
she developed an ingenious technique.
She would slowly circle a roly-poly
in which a rabbit was squatting, the
tenant of the fragile shelter being bluffed
out of making the break that would have
spelt safety. When close enough Gertie
would pounce with speed and sureness.
An afternoon tally of 20 was common.
* * * *
‘'Mat’s Mate”: We struck a philo-
sopher the other side of Rochester one
time, camped on the Campaspe, and his
theme was that love was the Wonder-
worker of the ages and on the day men
learned to love one another as brothers
the world would —but you’ve heard it all
yourself. We were listening to him
with great respect because he had tobacco
and we hadn’t, and we hoped his love
would overflow our way a bit, when
along blew Billy Andrews, We’d known
Billy way up in the Nectar Brook
country, in South Aus., where he was
doing well trapping, and the last time
we’d seen him, about two years before,
was when he shouted in Port Germein
and somewhat hilariously informed us
he was going to be married. Mat liked
Billy, and he had concocted some scheme
of getting Billy mad-drunk and sending
him to see the girl so that she’d turn
him down, but Billy was too good for
us and was still on his feet with a mug
of West End in his hand when we last
saw him. Well, Billy listened to the
philosopher and somehow the talk got
on to love for women, whereupon the
philosopher told us a story of a girl whose
father had shut her up in the house to
stop her seeing a cove and how she got
out and they eloped. “Love,” he finished,
with a flourish, “laughs at locksmiths.”
“Well,” Billy Andrews said, “I dunno
where locksmiths come into y’r yarn,
mate, but I know dam’ well there’s some-
thin’ love don’t laugh at.” “Yair?” Mat
said. “Yair,” Billy said. “Flamin’ tooth-
ache. I never married that girl,” he
added, darkly, to us. “No?” “No, four
days before we’re due t’ go off I get a
flamin’ toothache an’ go up t’ Port
Augusta t’ get her out. I get a few
whiskies in an’ don’t wake up till nilly
a week late. When I get back t’ Port
Germein me sheila’s done a duck with a
traveilin’ dentist from Adelaide. Yair,
she got flamin’ toothache the day I went
up to the Port an’ went t’ him t’ have
it fixed up.” The four of us brooded
a while, and then Mat spoke up. “Well,
it just shows y’,” he said. “A sore tooth
can save y’ a lot o’ trouble, can’t it?”
But I’m afraid Billy was too deep in
memories to see Mat’s point.
NOCTURNE.
Piled cloud, and fallen leaf, and pools of rain...
The patterned April night is tongued with bells
As, floating on the wind, the Angelas,
Note after trembling note, its message- tells.
Cold, cold and grey the gathering of the night,
The frightened stars unseen above the veil
Of wrack and rain. The stark half-foliaged trees
Shrink from the spiny fingers of the hail.
Night is a gulf of storm in the glooming west;
Only the moon in vagrant gleams is kind,
And the frail Angelus, that flings its bells
In broken silver music on the wind.
VICTORIA.
MARJORIE STANFORD.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
BEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
•TEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS. BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS Z Z PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
'jACKSO* 4
OSUUJVAN
a:
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
BCPA
to ENGLAND
via U.S.A. or Canada
Reach London In only 4 days
via San Francisco —New York
or Vancouver —Montreal. Fly-
ing the Pacific with BCPA you
enjoy sleeper accommodation,
as well as a 9-hour stopover at
lovely Honolulu. At Vancouver
or San Francisco your connec-
tion to London is pre-arranged
to suit your convenience.
Compare the Service
..,the Comfort
. . . and the Route
You gain so much by flying
the "Southern Cross" route
with BCPA. The only health
requirement is a vaccination
certificate. You fly all the way
through English speaking lands,
and BCPA's new low fares to
London or Europe are payable
in Australian currency prior to
departure.
df
brings you
reduced fares
SINGLE
£327 :r aSz.
FR °H SYd Ney
m
m
' pi I
ra i II :
'
m
Fly the glamour way ta London —across the Pacific in BCPA’s luxurious
df
Full oarticulars from your local travel agent or airline booking office,
oi IcPA Head Office. 53 Martin Place, Sydney. ’Phone: 8W2741.
fy'utuJi othl.
SYDNEY • FIJI • CANTON ISLAND • HONOLULU • SAN FRANCISCO • VANCOUVER
WITH CONNECTIONS AT BAN FRANCISCO AND VANCOUVER TO U.K. AND EUROPE
8CA.14.12N
4Sk
&
9k
rvr\
mszg
onvs oimoi
Contains no artificial colouring or
flavouring. Made from the best ripe
tomatoes to retain natural colour.
m
CL
CL
<
OUT OF THE CAVE.
Who was it first that trembled
Among those mute, wild men
When the imperious planets
Burned on his eerie ken?
Who was it, fanged and stealthy,
Tremendously alone —
That heard the song in the tempest.
Felt within flesh and bone
Impatient urge of knowledge;
Sensed, before the false years
Told time on earth, the marvel
Of love’s desiring tears?
Armored beasts and the serpent
Skulked by his rock-cold lair;
His mate was a fear-struck woman
Bound in a rope of hair...
Birds with a snout, winged lizards
Shadowed his natal scene,
The seas of God rolled raging
Where some day clods must green..
His children cowered from the thunder,
His clansmen crawled from the light;
But he in his loins felt triumph,
Stood like a king in the night,
And knew himself without terror,
Upon that world’s raw zone.
Conscious mind amid wonder,
Warmth flooding out of stone.
n.z. Paula Hanger.
* * * *
“Blime”: The chap in the sports
trousers lounged through the gate with
the brass-plate on it, tapped on the door
and asked to see Dr. Olden. “Don’t
know if it’s serious. Doc.,” he explained
solemnly, when he was admitted, “but
I was out at Simpkins’s when it
pened, Digging out rabbits. Thought
Tel take a job on a farm for a bit, you
see? Be a change from the town here,
and old Simpkins agreed to pay me two
quid a day and keep. So, as I was telling
you, I was using the shovel, when this
sort of outbreak come over me. Warm
sort of day it was, but I wasn’t feeling
queer or anything. Only wet. You’d
never believe it! Here, it was, and across
here. I’ve never had anything like it.”
The medico let him ramble on for a bit,
then interrupted with a crossfire of ques-
tions. “Ah, yes, yes, I see,” he said. “And
how old did you say you are?” “Twenty-
four.” “Ah, yes. Well,” he summed up
weightily, “it is a plain enough case and
I can quite see what happened, though
I admit it is not common nowadays.
There is nothing to worry about, I assure
you. The condition was due to the exer-
tion and was a release of a certain secre-
tion, through the pores in your skin.
Years ago it was very prevalent, and is
known as sweat.”
* * * ♦
“S.E.”; Hendy eyed the five-pounder
with a triumphant grin. Weren’t many
trout that size in the stream. It would
just- about beat anything the rest of the
locals had caught for the season. Pity
the big ones weren’t so good to eat. Not
in it with the couple of three-quarter-
pounders already in his bag. Hendy
wound in his line and made back to
town, where he entered the store, holding
up his catch. “Gripes, what a beaut!”
gasped the bloke behind the counter.
“Where did you get it?” “In that big
dark hole under the willows, about half
a mile up,” grinned Hendy. “You can
have it.” The store bloke carried the
fish to the kitchen, held a consultation
with his missus and a bit later presented
the prize to a neighbor. “Not bad, eh?”
he chuckled, handing it over. “Caught
it in that dark hole under the willows,
about half a mile up,” The neighbor
eyed the fish; then, waiting till the store
bloke was out of sight, bore it in triumph
to the pub kitchen, explained where he’d
caught it and made a present of it to the
publican. That worthy grabbed his rod
and a camera and had a snap taken out-
side the back door, holding the outsize in
trouts; then he took it through to the
bar. “You blokes call y’rselves anglers,”
he challenged, holding it up. “Well, beat
that. Makes y’ pop-eyed, don’t it,.
Hendy? You’ve never caught anything
near as big. Got it in that big dark
hole under the willows, about half a
mile up.”
* * * *
“Paspalum”: A couple of butcher-birds
haunt my garden, and woe betide any
sparrows which try to sample my lettuce.
Watched the pair of them in action. The
“Well, my sister got married and they're using my tent to live in .”
English invader led the male butcher by
a feather three times around the house,
then butcher No. 2, who was watching
from his near-by perch, seeing the spag
improving his position, flew in and
slightly slowed down the target, allowing
her mate to get in a rip to the ribs.
Later I saw that spag pinned up with
eight of his breed on a thorn-bush.
* * *
“Ex-R.S.M.”The Californian red-
wood {Sequoia sempervirens ) can be
grown here, but it must be planted in the
right place. It needs a fair rainfall, but
above all fog—'either the morning coastal
fogs similar to that of its native Cali-
fornia or on hills which frequently have
their heads in the clouds. Given those
conditions, its growth is remarkably
rapid ; X know a 50-year-old one standing
on a South Australian hill; it is nearly
100 ft. high and has a magnificent barrel
of a trunk almost 12ft. in girth. The red-
wood has another great advantage; it
doesn’t carry a running fire through its
tops as our eucalypts or trees like Pinus
radiata do. We have countless thousands
of acres of mountain country on which
redwood should grow. Another advan-
tage is that it is not necessary to replant
a stand of redwoods; they regenerate
naturally from suckers and seedlings.
* * * *
“Kelms”: “Wippegong” mentions
yellow-tailed black cockatoos in Vic-
toria (B. 27/4/’49). In sou’-Westralia
we have two varieties: the red-tailed
and the white-tailed. In each the dis-
tinguishing feathers are underneath the
tail feathers —you see them only when
the birds are flying overhead. Both
species live on the same foods—the seeds
of gumnuts, the kernels of double-gees
(bindi-eyes to Eastralians), etc., and,
when available, fruit —but they never in-
vade each other’s territory. The red
bloke keeps more to the wheatbelt and
inland areas ; his white cobber likes the
coastal plains and the lower sou’-west.
I’ve given up wondering if the color of
those few feathers accounts for the habi-
tat, or vice versa. Nor can I see what
possible purpose they serve,
* * * *
“Old Bushman”: In one State at least
native game apparently thrive despite
settlement. The Tasmanian Animal and
Birds Protection Board has just declared
an open season for kangaroos, wallabies
an 4 possums during July and August.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Statistics may prove
me wrong, but I’ll stick to my belief
that the male rat is trapped easier than
the female. During a recent plague of
rats I found that for the first few days
the catches were entirely males, the
females caught increasing in numbers as
the males were wiped out. All told, I
caught an equal number of each sex,
thereby satisfying statistics, but I caught
the males first. It’s the same with rab-
bits. Trapping on sparsely-populated
, burrows whose occupants have survived
repeated encounters with the district
mongs, I seldom catch does until the
bucks have been practically liquidated.
Which seems to indicate that even a
buck rabbit adopts the male role of pro-
tector and can display a real courage in,
testing disturbed earth which instinct
warns him can conceal danger.
* * * *
“Wippegong”; It’s quiet at the mill
these days. During the spring the kooka-
burras kept up a constant clatter as they
raced to and from the sawdust-heap,
digging out provender for a clamorous
brood just up the ridge, and the din
reached its climax when this squawking
clutch left the nest and joined in the
excavations; though there was a short
lull when the old birds lured the chicks
away and instructed or belted them into
finding territory for themselves. Then
Mrs. K. laid another lot, and it all started
over again; but meanwhile the thrushes
and honeyeaters and currawongs kept up
a racket that rang with the urgency of
the season. Now there’s a hush in the
gully. At smoke-oh today we sat on a big
coachwood log that was being sawn into
sections prior to rolling into the mill to
be ripped. Not a breath of wind ; leaves
hang motionless on twigs that seemed to
be made of metal. Old Jack sits on a
beam above the sawdust, head on one
side, and when now and then he dropped
to the heap he seemed indifferent as to
whether he’d dig or go back to his snooze
in the sun. Yellow Bob sticks to the side
of a sapling as though content to wait
indefinitely till we started splitting, and
on the foot-track a mountain thrush let
his mottled browns merge with the dead
leaves below till you lost him while still
looking at him. The rock-robins that
always build in the toolshed are some-
where about, but not a cheep tells you
where; and the scrub-wrens that nested
in a tussock right beside the bench are
down by the creek, but the only whispers
from that direction come from the leaves
disturbed by their scratching. Faint and
far a currawong’s call drifts down from
the ridge, for berries are ripe in the
gardens up there; then a mild chattering
that is almost a shout in that stillness
draws the eye to a flock of little brown
bodies heading north at tree-top level.
These are black-caps, the little olive-
backed, white-bellied, red-eyed honey-
eaters that spend the winter where the
Queensland tourist pamphlets say we all
should. They’ll be back in the spring,
fussing and scolding and squabbling, but
now—suppose we’d better take another
slice off this flaming log.


Io Help Solve Your Honey Worries
A personal, confidential service
is available at the Rural Bank
to those financially embarrassed*
Personal loans from £lO upwards
are made at a moderate rate of
interest with repayments spread
over a period of years. If you’re
troubled about money matters
and unexpected bills, come ia
and talk it over*
RURAL BANK
Head Office t Martin Place* Sydney*
The
Mutual Life and
Citizens 1 Assurance
Co., Ltd.
Martin Place and Castlereagh
Street, SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of pro-
viding cash for your family, or
for yourself when you retire,
than by taking out a policy with
The M.L.C.
Assets Exceed £56,000,000.
Annual Income Exceeds
£8,500,000.
M. 0. Alder, A.1.A., Gen. Manager.
INTERESTING BOOKS
CIANO’S DIARY 1939-1943. Edited with an introduction by M.
Muggeridge. One of the most important books to students
of human nature. 24/6 (post 6d.)
THE ROOSEVELT LETTERS. Being the personal correspondence
of Franklin Delano Roosevelt. Vol. I 1887-1904., 24/6 (post Bd.)
MAY THE WINDS BLOW. By Douglas V. Duff. An
autobiography of one of those legendary figures whose life
has been more packed with action and excitement than one
could believe possible in this humdrum twentieth century.
18/9 (post 5d.)
ISLES OF ROMANCE AND MYSTERY. By Gordon Cooper.
This book sets imagination’s course towards places where
fact seems like fantasy and reality a dream. It is a most
exciting account, never touched by the dullness of the common-
place, never drab for lack of colour. 14/9 (post 5d.)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LIMITED
Booksellers & Publishers,
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. MA6511.
the WILDAL COUMN
Bank of Australasia
To Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1940.. 266,106 8 p.c.= 261,000* 5,106 4,742,212
1941.. 237,012 8 „ „ 263,625* 4,715,599
Tax written back, £20,000 .. .. 4,735,599
1942.. 168,570 6 p.c.= 191,812* 4,712,357
1948.. 215,157 6 „ „ 194,250* 20,907 4,733,264
1944.. 195,864 6 „ „ 191,625* 4,239 4,737,503
1945.. 200,666 7s„ ~ 191,250* 9,416 4,746,919
1946.. 223,014 8£ „ ~ 210,375* 12,639 4,759,558
1947.. 243,588 9 „ „ 222,750* 20,838 4,780,396
1948.. 271,033 9 „ ~ 222,750* 48,283 4,828,679
* After deducting tax.
The private trading banks in Australia
are still under the shadow of nationalisa-
tion, the dangerous economic and social
consequences of which cannot be over-
stressed. Until this question of
nationalisation is resolved the dominant
factor in the price of bank scrip is the
amount of compensation to be paid.
This was to be determined by a tribunal
to be set up under the Bank “Grab” Act —
a piece of socialistic legislation intended
to give the Government a financial
stranglehold upon every section of the
community, but whose main provisions
failed to pass the test of constitutionality
before the High Court.
At £ll 9s. the ’Asia’s £5-paid shares,
visibly covered by £lO 7s. 6d. in net
tangibles, are 2s. above the figure at
which the Commonwealth Bank is
authorised to buy any of the scrip offer-
ing. After deducting British income tax of
9s. in the pound, and with exchange as
it is, the 9 p.c. div. is worth 6.2 p.c. in
Australian currency. On that basis the
immediate yield at £ll 9s. is nominally
2.7 p.c., subject to adjustment in con-
nection with double taxation, which
would lift the net yield nearer 4 p.c,
than 3 p.c. on incomes in the middle
group.
The year’s profit (£271,033, up £27,445)
was 6 p.c. on capital, or a modest 2.9
p.c. on shareholders’ funds (capital and
reserves combined). The future level
of net earnings depends largely upon*
how the Commonwealth Bank, which is
obliged to carry out Government policy,
exercises its very extensive powers of
control.
The ’Asia and the Union, two more-
than-century-old Anglo-Australian insti-
tutions whose businesses are scattered
throughout the Commonwealth and New
Zealand, had completed most of the for-
malities preparatory to a merger of the
two undertakings when the Government
brought down the Act already referred
to. That pushed the merger into the
background so far as the Australian sec-
tions of the two businesses were con-
cerned. The basis of the proposed deal
was the exchange of one ’Asia share
paid to £5 (with a reserve liability of
£5) for one Union share paid to £5 (with
a reserve liability of £10), The inten-
tion is to go ahead with the amalgama-
tion if and when it becomes practicable*
to do so.
The position at the moment is the
Privy Council, having heard the Govern-
ment’s appeal against the
High Court’s decision, is considering its
judgment, for delivery of which no date
has been fixed. Whatever this judgment
on the constitutional aspect of the posi-
tion might be, it looks as if the people
of Australia might yet be able to decide
the vital question of nationalisation of
the banks for themselves at the next
Federal elections, due about five months
hence.
1 The Government already has, and
exercises under the Banking Act, 1945,
the power needed to control and xegu-
late all activities of the private banks,
including the granting of credit. Last
month the Commonwealth Bank issued
a “revised statement of advance policy.”
Broadly this directive aims at prevent-
ing secondary inflation being added to
the inverted pyramid of inflation by dis-
couraging use of bank accommodation
for essentially capital purposes,
especially in connection with non-essen-
tial production—a policy to which the
private banks have been, and still are,
fully alive, and one in which they have
had a wider and much longer experience
than their legal master. In the back-
ground of the directive can be seen the
iron hand of bureaucracy gradually
tightening its grip on the whole financial
system.
At the moment the banking structure
is one of high liquidity, as the follow-
ing comparison of the ’Asia’s balance-
sheet figures shows:
1945. 1947. 1948.
Paid capital .. £4,500,000 £4,500,000 £4,500,000
Notes .. 2,630 2,625 2,623
Bills, etc. .. 5,847,012 7,027,4851
Fixed deposits 25,641,145 21,957,322 }■ 92,971,743
Current a/cs... 43,785,600 55,745,976 J
Liquid assets.. 56,337,104 47,383,411 51,228,092
Advances .. 27,493,114 45,893,976 50,268,610
Premises .. 805,590 922,544 942,470
Last term a welcome growth of
£4,374,634 in advances was accom-
panied by an expansion of £8,240,958
in liabilities to the public (mainly de-
posits) and addition of £3,894,681 to
low-interest-bearing liquids, which in-
clude £24,641,000 (up £3,642,000) on
special deposit with the Commonwealth
Bank at 10s. p.c.
Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
March, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1942.. 194,435 10 p.c. = 200,000 2,490,631
Unexplained addition, £305,399 2,796,030
1943.. 201,464 10 p.c. = 200,000 1,464 2,797,494
Unexplained addition, £105,743 2,903,237
1944.. 226,572 10 p.c. = 200,000 1 Qn , R 0„
To staff fund, £25,000 ) 1,572 2 - 904 - 809
Unexplained addition, £112,658 3,017,467
1945.. 225,190 10 p.c. = 200,000 1 „
To staff fund, £21,373 j 3,817 d - 021 - 284
Unexplained addition, £121,516.. 3,142,800
1946.. 232,835 10 p.c. = 200,000 1 o 7 q K , •,,*
To staff fund, £30,100 f 2,735 3,145,535
Unexplained addition, £57,488.. 3,202,973
1947.. 300,801 10 p.c. = 200,000 1 KS nR „ o
To staff fund, £42,738 | 58.063 3,261,036
Unexplained addition, £75,391.. 3,336,427
1948.. 329,759 10 p.c. = 200,000 1 , Q asnonsm
To staff fund, £49,909 ) 79-850 3,416,277
Unexplained addition, £219,346.. 3,635,623
1949.. 344,280 lllp.c. = 225,000 1 63 124 3,698,747
To staff fund, £56,156 ) ’ * ?
After keeping the div. at a level 10 p.c.
for 29 years, the cautious board lifted
the rate to Hi p.c. last term, the final
being at the rate of 12i p.c. p.a. On this
point the chairman said “no change is
contemplated in the next interim div. of
5 p.c., and the final at this time next year
can only be dealt with when results of the
year’s operations are known to the
directors and they know the outlook
for the future.”
With a twinkle in its eye the market
notes this and a lot of other things, in-
cluding the chairman’s further remark
that “the board have every reason to be
satisfied with the progress and expansiop,
and it is expected that the expansion will
continue”; and steadily increasing re-
turns are expected from the co.’s planta-
tion interests, owing to Government bulk-
buying contracts for copra. The market
therefore prices the co.’s pound shares at
735. ex div. as against 78s. early in 1949.
Hie drop (6.4 p.c.) is due to the general
easing of share prices; Sydney Stock
Exchange index for 34 leading ord. shares
shows a slip of 9.2 p.c. between January
18 and May 31 last. At 735. the return is
3.1 p.c. on an Hi p.c. div. basis, or 3.4
p.c. on a 12i p.c. distribution; the in-
vestor who looks for about 4 p.c. on
his money counts on a 15 p.c. div., or
other benefits. Net tangible cover is
visibly 565. Hd.
Growth in earnings since war ended
came mainly from the co.’s widespread
merchandising and agency activities and
its expanding interests in country store
and hotel properties in N. S. Wales and
Queensland. In these the board finds
“less worries and troubles” than in ship-
ping, once a handsome contributor, but
now a poor relation, and likely to remain
so, for some time at any rate. Turti-
over' (£20,041,626 in the previous year)
showed a “substantial” increase last term,
and gross earnings (up £280,080) re-
sponded :
1946. 1947. 1948, 1949.
„&£' & ' &
Gross
earnings. .1,473,807 1,675,659 1,853,904 2,133,984
Exes.* ..1,095,799 1,147,921 1,340,702 1,514,007
Balance .. 378,008 527,738 513,202 619,979
Depreciation,
bad debts,
etc. ~ 145,173 226,937 183,443 275,697
Profit claimed 232,835 800,801 329,759 844,280
* Includes taxation.
Of the £173,305 increase in exes., £92,274
was on account of wages, and the rest
taxation and extra cost (aggravated by
the 40-hour week) of supplies and services.
Allowance for depreciation was £198,780
(up £16,230) and for bad debts and losses
£76,917 (up £76,023). Of the £76,917
about £73,000 was the loss on island
shipping—£34,ooo-odd on voyage account
and the balance in respect of inadequate
provision for future repairs and overhaul
under Government charter rates.
The profit (£344,280, up £14,521) was
17.2 p.c. on capital as against -16.4, 15,
11.6, 11.2 and 11.3 p.c. back to 1944.
It leaves out of the reckoning £219,346
dropped into the insurance reserve (now
£2,206,057) partly on account of increased
risks and partly from “surpluses on reali-
sation of investments” and transfer of
“some reserves” from the London books.
Besides 11 branches in Australia, two
in New Zealand and one in London, the
co. has £2,093,149 (up £767,209) invested
in subsidiaries and £1,873,388 (down
£552,720) in shares in other cos. and Gov-
ernment securities. Movements in these
items reflect the extension of merchandis-
ing activities and reclassification of “some
former large investments as subsidiaries.”
Chief offshoot is Burns Philp (South
Seas), which looks after the parent’s in-
terests in the Western Pacific, while Burns
Philp (New Guinea) and Burns Philp
(New Hebrides) take care of the rest of
the co.’s island activities. Penny’s, an-
other subsidiary, runs a flourishing chain-
store business in Queensland and northern
N.S.W. Other holdings include a wad of
scrip in Queensland Insurance and
Bankers and Traders Insurance. And
since the war the co. has bought, or
acquired a controlling interest in five
country and/or suburban stores in N.S.W.
and three hotel properties in N.Q.
On the shipping side six of the co.’s
vessels were lost during the war, two
(Marella and Montoro) were sold at
“satisfactory prices” last term, the Bulolo
re-entered the New Guinea service in
August last, and the Merkur, now being
reconditioned, is to take up the “Eastern”
run within a few months. Qnly one re-
placement has been built —the Braeside,
a cargo vessel launched in Scotland on
March 21 and expected to take up the
Singapore-Australia run in August. Con-
struction of further vessels has been de-
ferred, and if any of the existing units
become too much of a burden they are to
be sold. Chief trouble is the slow turn-
round of ships, which now spend one-
third of their time at sea and two-thirds
in port. Since the co.’s ships are working
to capacity, a further increase in freight
and passenger rates is inevitable if operat-
ing costs alone are to be covered.
The year’s net addition to properties
and ships was £60,682:
1942. 1947. 1948. 1949.
£, £ £ £
Capital ..2,000,000 2,000,000 2,000,000 2,000,000
Liabilities ..2,356,082 3,077,817 3,509,024 4,420,771
Properties and
shipping. .2,625,008 2,341,901 2,359,317 2,420,009
Investments* 2,047,903 3,585,366 3,751,048 3,966,537
Stock, advances,
etc. ..1,126,486 1,377,243 1,596,937 2,185,584
Book debts.. 941,529 894,975 1,090,361 1,223,652
Cash .. 205,786 239,367 226,638 448,736
* Includes an unstated amount Govt bonds.
The growth in stocks (up £588,647), book
debts (up £133,291), cash (up £222,098)
and liabilities (up £911,747) mirror
brisker trading at rising prices. The im-
provement in the more-or-less liquid sur-
plus (£3,433,738) was £276,778,
General Motors-Holden’s, Ltd.
f Dividends —\
Pref.
Dec.. Profit. 6 p.c. , Ord. \ Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1939.. 703,650 33,696 45 p.c.= 787,500 413,462
1940.. 451,190 33,686 22.8 „ „ 398,875 432,171
1941.. 255,241 33,696 12.7 „ „ 221,545 432,171
From tax reserve, £94,000 .. .. 526,171
1942.. 276,297 33,696 18.3 p.c.= 319,753 449,019
1943.. 300,331 33,696 8.8 „ „ 153,667 5.61,972
Prom tax & inv’ry reserves, £295,381.. 857,353
1944.. 274,450 33,696 10 p.c.= 175,000 923,107
From inventory reserve, £203,910 ~1,127,017
Loss.
1945.. 68,528 33,696 Nil 1,024,793
From tax reserve, £15,849 .. .. 1,040,042
1946. . 437,529 33,696 Nil 569,417
Profit sale assets, £21,918 .. 591,335
Equity subsid. profits, £3585 .. 594,920
Profit.
1947.. 570,372 33,696 Nil 1,131,596
From inventory reserve, £140,900 .. 1,272,496
Profit sale assets, £2109 .. .. 1,274,605
Equity subsid. profits, £6441 .. 1,280,046
1948.. 681,604 33,696 Nil 1,927,954
The co.’s outstanding achievement last
term was production of its all-Australian
car, the Holden, which began to come off
the assembly-lines towards the close of
accounts. It is a sturdy, six-cylinder job
with good general performance in the
middle-price group, between the big
American and small English car, and the
board is more than satisfied with the
public reception it has received. It is the
outcome of much patient planning,
arduous work and a preliminary outlay
of about £4,000,000.
The engines are machined and
assembled in a big new factory at Fisher-
men’s Bend (Melbourne), which cost
about £1,700,000. The bodies and some
chassis sheet-steel pressings are turned
out at Woodville (S, Aus.), where a 20-
ton-a-day zinc-alloy die foundry, with
heavy steel presses, has been installed.
Among the many problems that had to be
overcome was a shortage of steel, which,
at one stage, became so acute that scouts
were sent out to buy up suitable old
bridges, barges and mining machinery.
Labor and materials permitting, the co.
expects to turn out its new car at the rate
of about 20,000 p.a. before 1949 runs out.
Despite marked growth in production
and selling costs, and heavy exes, con-
nected with putting the new car on the
market, where it arrived too late to have
much influence on the year’s earnings,
there was a sharp increase of £111,232
(19.5 p.c.) in the profit figure. The growth
in turnover (£17,508,303) was £3,463,568,
or 24.6 p.c. Trucks and utilities figured
prominently in vehicle sales, which in-
creased by 24 p.c., thanks to improved
deliveries of British makes, which helped
to offset the drop in imports from
America owing to the dollar shortage.
The co. also turns out parts and acces-
sories, household and commercial re-
frigeration and a lot of industrial equip-
ment, ranging from bearings to diesel
engines.
The £681,604 of profit was written after
allowing for depreciation (£530,949, up
£20,815) and taxation (£63,540), but ex-
cludes a surplus of £2109 on sale of
assets and an equity of £5441 in profits
of subsidiaries. An excess provision of
£140,900 for “inventory obsolescence”
was transferred from inner reserves to
the p. and 1. account. The profit claimed
covered the pref. div. and 37 p.c. on the
£1,750,000 of ord. capital, compared with
30.6 p.c. for the previous term and losses
totalling £506,057, mainly on account of
reconversion, for the two years before
that. Because money is wanted in the
business, the ords. were passed by for the
fourth year in succession; they received
an average of 28.2 p.c. for the seven years
before that —all but a small fraction of
this scrip is held by General Motors
Corp. (U.S.A.).
During 1949 the co. expects to have
40 p.c. more vehicles available for dis-
tribution, mainly Vauxhall cars and
Bedford trucks and utilities from England
and the new Holden; supplies of
American makes will be less than in 1948.
And the increasing age and obsolescence
of vehicles remaining in operation augur
well for the demand for parts and acces-
sories.
The year’s net addition to the book-
value of fixed assets was £1,159,306, and


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS' AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
df
This responsibility
is yours
Your beneficiaries have every right to expect that your
estate will be handled with the utmost care. If your
judgment is faulty, imprudent administration can endanger
assets built up by your energy and foresight. However, it
is a simple matter to provide competent control: the
appointment of Burns Philp Trust Company as executor
or trustee ensures that your beneficiaries will be protected
at every turn.
A copy of "Hands That Never Leave the Wheel" will be
forwarded on request. Full details of the Company's many
services are given in this interesting booklet.
DIRECTORS:
James Burns Joseph Mitchell P. T. W. Black Eric Priestley Lee
MANAGER: L. S. Parker SECRETARY: E. R. Overton, A.F.I.A.
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR ® TRUSTEE • AGENT
Constituted by Special Act of the N.S.W. Parliament.
Head Office; 7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Tel,: BU 5901 Box 543, G.P.0., Sydney
BP2-49
Coal..
MILLIONS OF. YEARS TO PRODUCE
Burned
in a Second
. . . How import-
ant it is, therefore,
to burn coal
properly and eco-
nomically, how-
ever great or small
the daily con-
sumption. With
world - wide ex-
perience, and a
knowledge of
Australian coals
that extends back
over 60 years,
Babcock specialise
in the design and
manufacture of
the most efficient
steam - raising
plant for all pur-
poses.
□ la
>--»-*'
>-
S TJ
X
Longitudinal- section
of a B. & W. High.
Heed boiler 'unit
arranged lor pul-
verised coal firing.
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS
HEAD OFFICE & WORKS - - REGENTS PARK, N.S.W.
Branch Offices and Agencies "m all States
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH Divorce.
TO RONALD ARTHUR GILLIOTT for-
merly of Railway Parade Wollongong.—
TAKE NOTICE that ADA PEARL
GILLIOTT has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2840 of 1948 on the ground of your
adultery with JOY IVY If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 29th day of July
1949 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from JOHN WARREN
BINNEY, Solicitor, 79 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney.—(n.s.) J. DOUGHAN, Acting
Registrar in Divorce.
I
V.l.
m
ii
©
, / ;'*
'A
Too on make pro-
vision now for your
■on’s secondary edu-
cation and business
training by taking
out adequate assur-
ance. The Equitable
Probate & General
insurance Co. Ltd. is
fully experienced in
these matters and
will expertly advisa
you.
R. V. PERKINS,
General Manager
EQUITABLE PROBATE
6- GENERAL INSURANCE CO. LTD.
//ea/otf/ce-37h373Pi/mft r Brisbane
WINCILLO MOUSE, ANOEL PLACE, SYDNEY
COLLINS HOUSE, COLLINS ST, MELBOURNE
drnmmcemenl
ED TRAVEL
TO
T
Assisting you to make an earlier arrival by Constellation
in Europe for the coming season, Qantas Empire Airways
announces the following advantages.
Stop-overs! Singapore and Rome
Air Travel Plan “A”.
DAYS IN SINGAPORE
The most fascinating dty in the Orient, Singapore is the
crossroads of the East. Enjoy three days of never-ending
interest before re-embarking for Calcutta, Karachi, Cairo,
to spend
DAYS IN ROME
The eternal city standing on its seven hills, Rome is a
storehouse of many of the world’s cultural treasures. Enjoy
days of such sights as the Colosseum, the Catacombs,
St. Peter’s, the Palazzo Venezia, the Capitol—then on to
LONDON ... PARIS .. . BRUSSELS ... AMSTERDAM.
No increase in the through fare for these stop-over privileges.
Hotel accommodation in Singapore and Rome (arranged before
departure) is your only additional expense .. Return air reserva-
tions from Europe to Australia by express service guaranteed.
T
Westward Ho! Around the World
Air Travel Plan “B”.
Offers all the privileges in plan “A’f, plus return through
UNITED STATES OR CANADA
embracing New York or Montreal, Vancouver, or San Fran-
cisco, then trans-Pacific via Honolulu and Suva to Australia.
Plan “ B ” provides for a concession fare for round-the-world
air travellers. Plans “A” and “B” are additional to the
regular 4i days service to London.
For full particulars contact your travel agent, or
Q*£*A and B O A'C
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS in parallel with
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION
n..fl
V-
y/
'L
n
T
'RE
E M
A;^l
6u
AV
*3e
&
-:■■■■■■■■■■
t. 41
HZD
completion of the programme
of expansion now in hand is ex-
pected to call for a further
£1,400,000:
1946, 1947. 1948.
& & £
Paid capital 2,311,600 2,311,600 2,311,600
Overdraft.. 635,170 1,852,663 2,929,691
Creditors.. 4,429,593 3,494,179 4,012,067
Tax reserve 63,540
Premises .. 1,113,383 1,046,162 1,080,600
Plant 329,391 1,744,268 2,869,136
Stock .. 5,302,511 4,778,315 6,190,943
Debtors .. 683,442 782,747 659,959
Advances,
etc. .. 289,612 288,513 287,414
Investments 149,900 153,485 158,926
Cash .. 94,389 13,396 14,722
The growth of £1,412,628 in
stocks was largely on account
of materials and components
connected with the growth of
manufacture. To meet the year’s
heavy outlay £1,077,028 was
added to the overdraft (guaran-
teed by the parent co.) and
£517,888 to the amount coming
to sundry creditors, among
whom the parent also figures.
Investment interest is con-
fined to 561,600 well-protected
6 p.c; £1 prefs. At 295. Id. they
return 4.1 p.c.
From London: Paringa,
operating on the Golden Mile
(W.A.), chalked up a. working
loss of £14,151 for year to end
August last as against a profit
of £34,906 for the previous
term. Government assistance
(£13,930), sundiy revenue
(£3104) and previous overprovi-
sion for taxation (£7384) left the
final balance at £10,267 on the
right side of the ledger. Treat-
ment of less ore (94,981 tons,
down 12,214 tons), a drop in
the grade (4.38dwt., down
0.86dwt.) and sharp rise of
about 4s. a ton in costs, against
the background of a fixed price
for gold, were the trouble. The
grade was below mine average
—reserves are put at 165,675
tons averaging 5.24dwt., of
which 105,675 tons (5.45dwt.) is
proved and the balance broken
in the slopes. Shareholders,
who received 12£ p.c. for each
of the three preceding years,
were passed by. Chairman
Beale talked of closing down
“temporarily” if Government
aid proved inadequate. Drilling
and other exploration suggest
the existence of more ore above
mine average in the Paringa
leases, and encouraging bore
results have been met with in
the Maritana area.
* ♦ * #
No. 13 bore on the Mt. Char-
lotte leases (B. 11/5/ ’49) was put
down on the Maritana Gold
Areas in which Mt. Charlotte and
Paringa are jointly interested.
This area, at the northern end
of the Kalgoorlie Golden Mile,
is on the southern boundary of
Mt. Charlotte’s own property,
over which Wiluna holds a
three-years’ working option.


"7ke Wme-IMUe
■tovk up ter
X
m
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
62 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
'ifl:
&
B
m
Providing for your
dependents
Two points to bear in mind
I YOUR WILL, However simple your Estate
may be, have your Will drawn by a Solicitor
and have him keep it up-to-date.
Pi YOUR EXECUTOR. Name Perpetual
Trustee Company Limited as your Sole Executor
or jointly with a relative or friend.
The Company has the experience and the
facilities to carry out your wishes as you intend
—in the best interests of your dependents.
There is a booklet “Your Executor and
Trustee” that explains the services rendered by
the Company and its charges.
’Phone or write for a copy to-day you will find it
helpful and informative.
PERPETUAL
Trustee Company Limited
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE
AGENT UNDER POWER OP
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES
& OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR,
ETC.
•
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS
UNDER ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £67,000,000 (the
average Estate being leas than
£ 10,000).
Director*:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, SCL.<L.
Chairman;
E. B, KNOX; ALL®? C. LEWIS;
Hon. J- P. ABBOTT, M.EER,;
D. R, LYSAQHT;
SAMUEL HORDERNS
H. Y. DOUGLASS.
Managing Director.
A. G. ARMYTAGB. Manager.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WAQQA WAQQA, TAUWORTH and ORANGE
Busineess,Rolleuy.Etc.
B.H.P. Background
Some figures to compare and
think about during the present
gloomy period on the Stock Ex-
changes (accentuated by the
news of B.H.P.’s capital issue):
Net profits shown by B.H.P.
and its subsidiaries over the
eight years to May 31, 1948:
£8,187,063.
Written off for depreciation
| during that period: £18,597,301.
i Provided for taxation in same
time; £13,180,105.
Sundry creditors (apart from
trade creditors) and tax reserve
at May 31, 1948: £7,332,405.
Total book-value of fixed
assets of B.H.P. and its sub-
sidiaries at that date:
£16,604,210.
Capital of B.H.P. and outside
interests in subsidiaries:
£16,140,416.
Total capital of B.H.P. after
the new issue is made ;
£18,513,202.
It will be seen from the fore-
going figures that, over the past
eight years, the B.H.P. group has
written off in depreciation con-
siderably more than the present
value of all fixed assets, and
more than the total capital of
B.H.P. will be even when the
present issue is made and the
shares fully paid up. And during
five years of the period B.H.P.
supplied the Government with
all munition steel at cost price.
B.H.P. still produces the
cheapest basic steel in the world.
Its shares, cum rights to a one-
for-three issue at a premium of
10s. each, were available last
week at 48s. After exercise of
the rights, and assuming that the
present dividend rate is main-
tained, the immediate yield
offering is £3 16s. 6d. per cent.
Chief obstacle to higher divi-
dends from B.H.P. at present is
Socialist politics, lack of coal
and manpower. Last month
Australian output of steel was
only 63 p.c. of all plant capa-
city.
Standard Oil Again
J. H. Moate is back in the
new? again with his Standard
Oil Co. of Australia, Ltd. Last
week, according to Sydney
“Herald,” he said the Common-
wealth Government was hold-
ing up consideration of his
proposal to turn out 46 million
gallons of petrol a year from coal
and shale because a retort (ap-
parently the Renco type) in-
stalled at Glen Davis in 1943
had not been tested —it was the
Renco type of retort which
Moate’s concern had proposed
to use back in 1940.
According to the “Herald,”
Moate had advised Mr. Chifley
in November, 1948, that the
latest proposal, made on behalf
of Australian and American in-
terests, “envisages the produc-
tion at economic cost of an
average supply of 46 million
gallons of high-quality finished
petrol a year,” plus by-pro-
ducts, for 25 years. “A huge
treatment plant, together with a
housing project, would be built
at Baerami, near Muswellbrook
(N.5.W.).” Other news sources
reported that $7,000,000 would
be forthcoming from unnamed
U.S. interests, subject to cer-
tain conditions.
Mr. Moate had the Treasury
interested in his attempt to get
the Baerami shale-oil proposi-
tion going in 1940. His hopes
of successful exploitation of the
shale deposits were supported
by Alex. J. Gibson, consulting
engineer, who was a spon-
sor of a new float to be
formed to work the field ; but
the N. S. Wales Mines Depart-
ment was not enthusiastic. It
was at this time proposed to put
20 million tons of shale and
cannel coal through the retorts
in 25 years. Estimated yield
was “58 gallons of crude oil
and tar” per ton of shale, with
output at 30 million gallons of
petrol a year. The float didn’t
come 0ff—£2,500,000 was to be
raised, and Treasury permission
was granted, but with a time-
limit for the getting-in of cash.
A Commonwealth Parlia-
mentary committee in ‘ 1945
advised against the develop-
ment of Baerami shales at
a cost (estimated by an Ameri-
can mission) of £2,914,000. But
it recommended a trial of the
Renco retort at Glen Davis with-
out delay. A. C. Smith, of the
Department of Supply, advised
the committee that the oil con-
tent of the Baerami shales was
about 400 million gallons, with
the Glen Davis potential 2000
million gallons, and the grade
of the Glen Davis shale was far
higher than that at Baerami.
Spruikers for the Baerami pro-
ject emphasised cheaper mining
costs and extolled the virtues of
the Renco retort.
Output by National Oil Pty.,
the semi-Government concern
working the rich Glen Davis de-
posits, was estimated to reach
10,000,000 gallons a year by
1945. It is still below half that
figure, and the loss on opera-
tions has been about 2s. per
gallon of petrol produced—each
gallon of petrol costs about 3s.
6d. A big trouble has been to
get enough shale mined.
How much coal Mr. Moate
proposes that Standard Oil of
Australia should retort along
with Baerami oil-shale is not yet
disclosed. But he himself has a
very interesting background.
Standard Oil, Adelaide Oil and
Chilian Oil Fields are (or were)
interrelated companies, with J.
H. Moate as their leading light.
Adelaide Oil Exploration was
formed in Adelaide away
back in 1919. At June 30,
1940, it and its two re-
lated cos. had combined paid
capitals of £638,142, of which
£357,710 was issued for con-
sideration other than cash, apd
development, losses, etc., had by
then absorbed something like
£170,000, apart from what in-
tangibles existed in the item
“shares in other cos.” (£389,103).
Flow-oil and shale-oil were
looked for in various parts,
latterly in the Latrobe shale area
in Tasmania and the Baerami
field in N.S.W. In Tasmania
Standard Oil (which was formed
in 1922, giving Adelaide Oil
three shares for one in a “pool-
ing of interests”) struck trouble
with the Government; Major T.
H. Davies, Minister for Mines,
in the Assembly on Nov., 1937,
“amongst a great many other
things,” alleged that “the whole
of the co.’s activities might be
described as a blackfellow’s cor-
roboree for the Moate family.
It may be also, likened to a
fourth-class American jazz-band
which is without tune or har-
mony. It has no real progres-
sive policy for unfortunate
shareholders.”
J. H. Moate, in recalling
these remarks to shareholders’
attention in 1940, commented:
You might say these are rather
harsh words. You will agree with
me they are decidedly on the blunt
side, and you may wonder why I
recall them to you in some detail. I
do so because they weren’t true, nor
justified. The Moate family—l and
my brother—are not ashamed of the
pioneering work which we have dpne
for you and the nation. lam telling
you this to give you some idea of
the difficulties we have had to sur-
mount.
Almost nine years have passed
since Mr. Moate, more in sor-
row than in anger, thus reproved
the Tasmanian Minister for
Mines. It is almost as long since
the failure of his attempt
to float the £2,500,000 co.
to exploit the Baerami deposits.
The “Commonwealth Division
of Industrial Development” is
said to be “examining” the pre-
sent Baerami proposal. Mr.
Chifley has declined to com-
ment.
Mt. Eba Gold Mines
The Bulletin did its best to
save the foolish from the fan-
tastic share-boosting that went
on in Mt. Eba scrip. Pitt-street
“miners,” for their own reasons,
maintained a price for the shares
which has proved wholly un-
justified.
Operations on the Mt. Eba
mine, near Kanowna (W.A.), are
being abandoned. The gold-
carrier was too narrow to work
profitably, and results didn’t
come up to sampling values.
Only 430 z. of gold was recovered
from 129 tons of ore, and total
expenditure during the period of
operations was £25,018. The
scrip has slumped from above
Bs. to under 2s. At one stage
the shares sold at 16s.—that was
before paid capital was doubled
in September, 1948.
About that time The Bulle-
tin pointed out that “the
puffed-up Stock Exchange price
for Mt. Eba shares establishes
a basis for any private dealings
that might take place outside
the Stock Exchange,” adding*:
“Pitt-street ‘miners’ have been
operating in Mt. Eba shares for
over six months; whether there
is ever found to be payable
quantities of gold in that thar
mine or not, the Pitt-street prac-
titioners, large and small, will
see money made and lost —in
share-dealings.” Later (in Sep-
tember, 1948) it was said here:
Those people, especially women,
who cannot afford to lose the money
invested had better get out of Mt.
Eba Gold shares while the going is
good. At 14s. 3d. each for the
2s. 6d. shares the scrip has reached a
remarkably high price, and, unless
a great deal more payable ore is
blocked out by the management, or
unless a heavenly meteorite thickly
impregnated with gold happens to fall
(and not bury itself too deeply) within
the boundaries of the co.’s leases,
there will be nothing like the £140,000
profit definitely in sight needed to
justify the price of 14s. 3d. a share
being paid in the sharemarket.
This year there was a change
on the board of Mt. Eba, the
Westralian directors taking over.
For a while the market main-
tained its weirdly elevated and
steady level. Now the crash
has come, and it would be in-
teresting to know who has been
hurt in the slump. Women were
among those attracted to the
gamble.
John Woolcott Forbes, alias
Brandi, has persistently denied
having any connection with Mt.
Eba or Coolgardie Gold Mines
(another overvalued concern).
He did not appear on the board
of either.
Bradford Cotton shares were
a shilling weaker last week, after
being steady round 435. since
the new issue was floated. This
stock is not as widely held as
some other leaders, though there
are now 1,675,000 ords. on the
register. It is the strongest
cotton-textile concern in the
Commonwealth, holding the
rights to the Sanforising process
and other patents appropriate to
its general activities. Bradford
has an impressive history behind
it, and at 425. the shares return
an attractive £4 15s. per cent.
* * * *
The recent falls in the prices
of lead, spelter, copper and
other metals have originated in
the United States. In consider-
ing this U.S. fall in metal prices
it might be well to remember
that high economic policy may be
accelerating the drop in prices.
Those >vho can take their minds
back 12 years ago may remem-
ber that in 1937 President Roose-
velt let it be rumored that if the
speculative high prices for raw
materials, especially metals, con-
tinued, he would revalue the
dollar in a deflationary manner.
That was the end of the boom
in metal prices until war began.


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1818
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
c. 0. GALE (Chairman). P. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN 0. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. O. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies In all Country Centres
rsr
A
HOLEY
DOLLAR
SPANfSU
1? DOLLAR
'DUMP
Macquarie’s
“Holey” Dollar
\W7HEN Macquarie became Governor, Spanish dollars, which
»▼ had been minted in Mexico since 1335, were the most
widely circulating coin in the world.
To alleviate the shortage of currency in the infant Colony of
New South Wales, Macquarie imported 40,000 of these coins in
1813. To keep them in the Colony, he had the centre punched
from each coin, thus making two coins. The centre-piece or "‘dump”
was given a value of Is. 3d, and the rim or ‘"holey” dollar, a value
of 3s.
More Spanish dollars were imported in 1816, but because of
the fluctuating value of the dollar, the excessive issue of private
promissory notes and the use of rum as a means of payment, the
currency situation continued chaotic. Macquarie therefore promoted
the establishment in 1817 of the Bank of New South Wales “as the
only means whereby the Public Distress could be fully averted”.
The growth and development of Australia since 1817 has been
due in no small part to the activities of the Bank of New South
Wales.
Consult and use
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
THE PEOPLE’S BANK SINCE 1817
Incorporated in New South Wales with limited liability
A4919D
BY APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS TO
There are times which
call for something better than the
merely very good, and demand the
unquestionable best. Where
cigarettes are concerned the man
of taste is guided by the
words * Benson & Hedges ,
Old Bond Street , London ”, From
this famous address comes fine
tobacco perfection to satisfy all those
occasions when only the best will do.
In
tins of 20
3/.
SUPER VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
BY
Bensonawi Hedges
LTD
OLD BOND STREET, LONDON
LONDON AIRMAIL
From Herbert Holman
Robert Louis Stevenson
wrote; “For my part, I travel
not to go anywhere, but to go.
I travel for travel’s sake. The
great affair is to move.”
That was 70 years ago, before
the Exchange Control Act,
nationalised railways, the Iron
Curtain, Scheduled Territories,
Form V, Certificate C, the Com-
mittee on the Export of Valu-
ables, National Registration
Identity Cards, and even pass-
ports (with “unglazed photo-
graphs printed on normal thin
paper and not more than
2iin. x 2in. or less than 2in. x
Hin.”).
Before 1914 a traveller went
to Victoria Station, paid for his
ticket to Paris or Baden Baden
or Venice or Constantinople with
golden sovereigns and boarded
the train without fuss. He
travelled light, buying clothes as
he needed them; and he stayed,
moved on or came back accord-
ing to his pocket or will.
Passports came in between the
wars, then visas; and Britons
still took away with them a solid
backing in sterling, even if not
in golden sovereigns.
Times have changed during
the 10 years that have passed
since last I travelled purely for
travel’s sake. Added passport
requirements are, I find, birth-
certificate and identity-card; be-
sides these, a married woman
needs her certificate of marriage
and her husband’s certificate of
birth. Rail and steamer tickets
may be bought for the asking,
but at a price; for cabins or
berths some notice is advisable
—weeks for first-class and
months for third-class.
A two-page leaflet, entitled
“Traveller’s Guide,” is thrown in
with the tickets. Being
cautionary rather than helpful it
is no abridged Baedeker. A pre-
amble and 16 paragraphs recite
formidable restrictions. A
smaller chit bears a “Warning to
Travellers” that has nothing to
do with card-sharpers or the
hazards of the journey: its pur-
port, menacingly thick in type,
is concerned principally with the
amount of sterling that may be
carried, for use on passage only.
I don’t wish to take a car
abroad, to travel for genuine
business purposes,, or to carry
with me gold, postal orders, life-
assurance policies (and docu-
ments of title relating thereto).
All I want to do is to take my
wife to Brittany, a 13-hour
journey, for a fortnight’s change,
rest and recuperation. But Ido
know that if I didn’t have any-
where definite in mind I certainly
wouldn’t be able to go.
Political Patches
While Labor is still able to
boast that it has not yet lost a
seat in a Parliamentary by-
election which it originally
gained from the Tories, the voice
of the party’s general-secretary
isn’t quite as cocksure as
formerly. The results of the
local and county elections show
a marked swing to the Right.
Conservative local organisations
have been busy, particularly with
loudspeaker cars. The public
generally has showed greater
interest, which may be taken as
a sign of growing discontent
with the present Government.
Independents who had Con-
servative support did well while
other Independents didn’t.
The bill to take over the iron-
and-steel industry has had its
third reading and gone to the
Lords. Although it is doubtful
whether electors know much
about the intricacies of this in-
dustry, they must have read their
newspapers. No bill can have
received a more hostile Press.
To quote from two independent
journals:
The “Times”: “A bad bill The
explanation of the Government’s un-
willingness to limit their powers and
to lay down definite standards and
principles of policy is simply that
they are asking for their powers
before they have any but the slightest
idea of how they want to use_ them.”
The “Spectator”: “The bill is a
political symbol advanced for politi-
cal reasons and supported only with
political argument.... Abolition is the
only possible improvement.... It is
politics first and steel nowhere.”
The realisation that Labor has
sacrificed the needs of the nation
to its own headlong doctrine
seems to be spreading among the
electorate. Many people, not
necessarily of Socialist persua-
sion, favored nationalisation in
1945. They don’t now, with
rising prices and poorer service.
Nor apparently does that prop
and ally of the Labor party the
Co-operative Society—at least,
where its own interests are con-
cerned.
A compelling feature of
Socialist propaganda has F been
the great benefit that A, who
has nothing, can enjoy at the
expense of B, who has plenty.
But it is a different matter if
A’s lefthand pocket can be fed
only at the expense of his right-
hand pocket.
The proposed State-ownership
of industrial assurance is under-
stood to be causing some deep
thinking at Labor h.q., which,
realising that nationalisation has
lost much of its appeal, fears the
effect upon countless households
of the persuasive tongues of
some 60,P00 insurance-agents.
These might, for example, ex-
plain that the huge assets of the
assurance companies are not, in
fact, idle money but the policy-
holders’ own savings held in
prudent reserve; and that the
companies are not allowed to
pay away any part of these funds
for any cause, however worthy.
Whereas, of course, the post-
office made a handsome profit
last year, and it was thought that
charges would be reduced and
services improved. Instead, the
surcharges were actually in-
creased (for local calls from
15 p.c. to 50 p.c.), and the fee
for registered letters was in-
creased by Id. to 4d. Why?
To help pay for the high cost of
“free” health insurance. If the
Government took over life
assurance what would it do with
the bonuses? And so 0n....,
Football Pools
According to estimates (made
from figures of receipts given in
“Hansard” last January) some
£61,000,000 was invested in foot-
ball pools during the nine effec-
tive months of 1948. About
10.000. people (30 p.c. of the
total adult population of Great
Britain) spent an average of
3s. 2d. a week; of these, about
7.000. were men (weekly
average 3s. lOd.) and 3,000,000
were women (weekly average
Is. lid.).
While opposition to the
pools has always been strong it
has also been impotent. The
law, which forbids gaming,
street-betting, public or private
lotteries, and effectively restricts
the buying of Irish sweepstake
tickets, has not yet been able
to clamp down upon the pools.
In 1933 a royal commission
recommended that they be made
illegal, but no action was taken,
probably because of the ex-
pected outcry from participants.
The aptness of this decision was
confirmed three years later when
the Football Association tried to
kill the industry by withholding
fixtures; but angry demonstra-
tions and a determined threat to
boycott all matches caused them
to climb down. Long before
this the excitement of the weekly
flutter had taken too great a
hold of the population to be
stamped out by the weight of
authority.
Any qualms of conscience
that might have pricked Gov-
ernmental minds were consider-
ably softened by the weekly
revenue about £750,000 in
postal-orders alone, to say
nothing of stamps. Principally
because of opposition from the
churches and anti - gambling
societies (who argued that to tax
an evil was only to justify and
encourage it) a fruitful source
of revenue was left undisturbed.
Notwithstanding its lack of
official sanction the industry
continued to prosper. In the
emergency Budget of November,
1947, the Chancellor of the
Exchequer could afford to stay
his hand no longer. He im-
posed a duty of 10 p.c. on “divi-
dends” ; the following April this
was increased to 20 p.c. and now
stands at 30 p.c.
As promoters operate under
the guise of credit betting they
are riot restricted by statute in
the way that other financial con-
cerns are. They are said to set
aside 5 p.c. for commission and
an unspecified amount (perhaps
15 p.c. or so) for expenses of
management. After these de-
ductions, and 30 p.c. duty, the
lucky “investor” is free to enjoy
his “dividend.” It would seem
that on the average he must pay
a very heavy price for his weekly
thrill.
Promoters, faced with the
three fallow summer months,
have tried out various devices,
including cricket and jockey
pools. The latest ruse (adopted
by a firm that attracted a good
deal of unfavorable publicity
during the Lynskey inquiry) is as
studied as it is far-fetched.
The pools are conducted on Aus-
tralian soccer results. Sheffield
Shield results are published here
because sportsmen are interested
in them, but Australian soccer
can hardly be said to have the
same breakfast-table interest.


■
o
9
B
4
7
6
X
Just arrived from England . . •
write for a new
’Victory" alarm. 25'
df
Straight from England to Proud’s second
floor Clock Shop comes the alarm clock
that will wake you right on time —‘Victory’s
This new Smith clock has a reliable 30-hour movement
and an attractive non-luminous dial. Your “Victory”
may be either blue, cream or green with chrome
fittings* Three months’ service guarantee.
• Also in the “Clock Shop”, the Smith “Dawn
Alarm” which features a 30-hour movement and a
luminous dial. In black and chrome or cream;
twelve months’ guarantee, 32/-.
fronds
!Address country orders
to Mail Order Manager,
Frauds Limited, Corner of King and Pitt Sts., Sydney
No. 1 In SHELL’S “Australian Artists” Series.
\t " =■
i*
4,
a
H
la/:
nM
r-
I
3=
at
m
m
m
(\SL
O
VS
n
*2>
v;
«
HORIZONS WIDEN THROUGH SHELL RESEARCH
—with a scene interpreted hy William Dargie
The first drawing in Shell’s new series
is by W. A. Dargie and is reproduced
above. William Dargie has won the
Archibald Prize for portraiture five
times, and was a War Artist in the Middle
East and New Guinea. The laboratory
—where the accent is on individuals
and individual skill—is a perfect subject
for his pen and brush.
Shell’s world-wide laboratories, some of
which house thousands of scientists,
have made major contributions to the
evolution of high octane petrol . . ,
to the development of new lubricants
that can stand white heat... to modern
pest control, rust prevention, petro-
leum chemicals, synthetic glycerine ...
and to many other products and pro-
cesses which increase the richness and
promise of life.
In the Australian laboratories, Shell’s
world-wide researches are applied to
Australia’s needs ... separate researches
into Australian problems are carried
out . . . and the quality of all Shell
products is tested before they are sold,
under conditions involving extraordin-
ary degrees of accuracy.
You can be sure of
SHELL
SHELL
The SheH Company of Aust. Ltd. (Inc, In Gt. Britain).
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
JAPAN, U.S. ALLY?
Continuing American discus-
sion of Uncle Sam’s position in
the Far East mostly amounts to
a public chewing of Dead Sea
fruit, with a confusion of views
which reflects the apparent con-
fusion in official policy.
On one point most agree—
that Uncle Sam is a fair way
towards having lost the Pacific
War. This is typically stated in
N. Y. “Herald Tribune”: “If
the Communists’ drive south in
Asia is not somehow halted
there is only one probable re-
sult. In the course of time
Japan will add her vital indus-
trial potential to the Kremlin’s
vast Asiatic empire. Then we
shall have thrown victory away
with a vengeance.”
“The full degree of
America’s defeat in the Orient,”
runs another typical comment
(in “Wall-street Journal”), “may
be measured by the fact that
there would have been no Pearl
Harbor, no war in the Pacific,
had it not been for the stub-
born determination of the
American Government to sup-
port China Japan.”
The comment quotes President
Roosevelt’s statement: “We
could have compromised with
Japan and bargained for a place
in Japanese-dominated Asia by
selling out the heart’s blood of
the Chinese people. And we
rejected that.”
Former Secretary of State
Stimson is also quoted; “If at
any time the United States had
been willing to concede to
Japan a free hand in China
there would have been no war
in the Pacific.”
The agreement on that par-
ticular point doesn’t extend into
what’s to be done next. “Col-
lier’s” magazine, in an edi-
torial headed “Japan, Reborn,
Can Be Our Ally,” represents
the one side of this discussion.
It comments:
“ ‘Collier’s’ thinks Communist
successes in China will compel
us to change our policies, our
opinions and our feeling about
Japan. We think the sooner the
better. Americans did not
always consider the Japanese
enemies who must be held
down. Nor did the Japanese
always hate Americans. Per-
haps they do not n0w.... ,1s
there any better assurance of
peace and goodwill in the Far
East than that which may be
found when Japan is allowed
once again to be self-support-
ing, self-respecting and respon-
sible?”
As another example on that
side, foreign-affairs writer Wil-
liam Henry Chamberlin ;
“There should be a quick shift
of occupation methods in
Japan, designed to enlist the
Japanese people as our allies.”
The opposite view that
Uncle Sam would be? favoring
a very dubious partner in con-
sidering Japan as an ally—is
typically expressed by the
American Far Eastern affairs
authority Owen Lattimore in
his recent book The Situation
in Asia, quoted by the “Atlan-
tic Monthly.” Lattimore attacks
assumptions on which U.S.
policy for Japan appears to be
based: first, “the entirely fan-
ciful theory that Japan can be
made not only into a work-
shop but a workshop that con-
trols Asia”; second, “the
equally fanciful theory that
Japan can be made into a
politically reliable bulwark
against Russia”; third, “the
most fanciful theory of all:
that there is only one Japan, a
solid, internally indivisible unit.”
He holds “this whole chain of
assumptions and cluster of fan-
tasies” to be “an illusion.”
“We must realise,” Lattimore
further expresses what appears
at present to be a minority
view, “that nothing ties Japan
down to be America’s per-
manent ally in Asia. A Japan
made strong enough by Ameri-
can subsidy to hold an eco-
nomic ascendancy over the rest
of Asia and strong enough to
be an American ally against
Russia if it wants to be is auto-
matically a Japan strong enough
to double-cross America and
make its own deals both with
Russia and with the rest of ‘
Asia.....
“There is an important area
of political manoeuvre in which
Japanese conservatives and
Leftists and Right-wing and Left-
wing colonial nationalists can
get together. As manoeuvring
goes on it will be possible for
Japan to emerge, suddenly and
without warning, and with the
hearty participation of some of
the most powerful Japanese con-
servatives, in a position more
anti-American than anti-Rus-
sian.
“Once the occupation has
ended it will be possible for
Japan to make such a move at
any moment when it appears
that the combined strength of
Japan and the colonial peoples
has reached a point where they
can form a solid front against
an American-backed Europe.
The move, when made, might
either be permitted without in-
terference from Russia and
China, or actually be assisted
by them.
“An Asia put of control may
settle into a new position in
world politics during the next
few decades by a series of land-
slips, each causing a series of
alarming tremors but no general
earthquake. During one or
another of these landslips Japan,
after talking a wonderful anti-
Russian line up to the very last
moment, and after getting every
possible kind of help out of
America, may see an opening
which makes it possible to slip
out from under America’s con-
trol without coming under
Russia’s control. And Russian
policy, for decades to come,
may be guided by the belief that
if it is not possible to bring
under Russian control, or into a
federation dominated by Russia,
any part of Asia that may break
away from European or Ameri-
can pontrol, then it is wisest to
settle for an Asia out of con-
trol ... .3 I
“The possibility that as Japan
goes, so Asia can be made to
go, is in fact a decreasing possi-
bility. The increasing proba-
bility is that as Asia goes, so
Japan will go—in its alignments
with other countries and in the
alignments and oppositions of
its own political parties.”
Trucks v. Trains.
“One of the. biggest booms of
the post-war period—that of the
motor-truckers,” reports “Wall-
street Journal,” “points to
serious trouble ahead for the
railroads” in the U.S.
It quotes one transportation
authority: “People talk about
the trucks getting more busi-1
ness. What they’re actually wit-
nessing is a minor revolution in
the movement of freight.”
The “Journal” reports that
that “revolution” is “nation-
wide”: “It permeates all com-
merce. Tons of Texas grape-
fruit, once rail-bome, npw trek
northward on tyres. Cotton,
cloth from southern mills is tak-
ing to the highways to reach New
York’s garment factories over-
night. A Pittsburgh steelmaker
says the switch of his metal to
motor transport is ‘snowballing.’
“Growth figures on the truck-
ing world read like a fairy-tale.
Total yearly revenues of all
inter-State truckers a decade ago
were about $7OO million. They
are now $2500 million or more,”
Just before the war, the report
states, there were some 1200
“Class 1” (annual revenues of
$lOO,OOO or more) inter-State
trucking concerns in the
country; today there are 2500.
The expansion of some of these
has been extraordinary. As an
example, the growth record of
the McLean Trucking Co.,
“rolling freight from Atlanta to
Boston”:
1941. 1948.
Miles travelled 2,273,812 21,372,103
Tons hauled . 31,166 344,788
Trucks .... 4 104
Trailers ~ 36 434
Gross revenue $524,900 $8,110,240
Vital E.R.P.
Grace before meals in the
benefiting countries certainly
ought to include a special
thanksgiving word for the
European Recovery Programme.
Without that aid the position in
Britain, for example, would be
as described by London “Daily
Mail”:
“Bread, cake and pastry sup-
plies cut to half of what they
are now. Butter, cheese and
sugar rations down by one-third.
No cotton goods in the shops;
footwear supplies drastically cut.
Cigarette and tobacco supplies
cut by 75 per cent. New hous-
ing programmes down by
half Private motoring cut
from 90 to 40 miles a month or
less Big lay-offs in industry
and elsewhere.”
A further illustration given by
the “Daily Mail” also emphasises
how vital the aid is. Every
\veek, it says, between 20 and
40 ships steam into British ports
laden with “key goods” which
Britain could not otherwise
obtain if it were not for E.R.P.
That some gratitude is felt
towards the right quarter is in-
dicated by die N. Y, “Herald
Tribune” report that when the
Netherlands ended bread-ration-
ing, the Bakery Foundation


PALARINO
ORANGE JUICE
CORDIAL
Made from the Juice of
Fresh Oranges ~
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL LEADING STORES AND HOTELS
there hung posters in Holland’s
40,000 bakeries saying “More
than half of your daily bread
is baked from Marshall [Plan]
wheat.” -
Fear of Germany.
A “Christian Science Moni-
tor” correspondent in Germany
has pointed out that, though the
U.S., Britain and France have
ostensibly accepted the idea of a
future German State which
would be federal in nature, it is
still “doubtful whether the
Anglo-Saxons think the type of
federalism which the French
would like to enforce can be
maintained when Germany again
is restored. For, to the French,
this goes so far as to preclude
the re-establishment of a Ger-
man Reich, even if it is a demo-
cratic Reich,”
The French outlook on the
old enemy—an outlook which
persists despite reluctant accept-
ance of U.S. policy—has been
favorably presented by the “At-
lantic Monthly”:
“On one point all Frenchmen
of every class and political creed
are agreed. To help Germany
to recover is madness and
dangerous madness. Germany
invaded France in 1870, in 1914
and in 1940. Each time she did
so she increased the scale of her
brutalities and of the damage
she caused. Beaten in 1918, she
was allowed within 10 years to
develop the Ruhr to her heart’s
content and she did so, produc-
ing not the goods and products
necessary to a European re-
covery but the weapons and
panoply of Mars. Only the
French sought by their single-
handed occupation of the Ruhr
to prevent this catastrophe,
British pressure and American
indifference were far too strong
for them. They had to desist,
and World War II was the de-
plorable consequence. Now
once more these nations which
do not have to live side by side
with the Germans, as do the
French, are demanding that Ger-
many should be allowed to re-
cover. Against this every
Frenchman sets his face with
flintlike obstinacy.”
On that French stand the
“Christian Science Monitor’s”
correspondent has commented:
“A disunited Germany may ap-
pear a great benefit, from the
short point of view, to many
Frenchmen. In the end, how-
ever, it will be a greater menace
to them, to Europe and to the
world than a Germany which
the Western Powers still have
the chance of winning as a
worthy partner in a broad
federation founded upon respect
for the legitimate rights of each
member, even though that mem-
ber may be a strong Germany.”
U.S. Labor Law.
One of the election cries that
most helped Mr. Truman—that
the Taft-Hartley labor-control
measure would be repealed when
he was elected —has not been
overheartily echoed by Congress,
In “Wall-street Journal’s”
view, “If the leaders of organised
labor had been willing to make
a quick compromise soon after
the elections, they very probably
could have accomplished a sub-
stantial repeal of the Taft-
Hartley Act. They demanded
all or nothing, and the net effect
of the votes in the House [of
Representatives] has been to
give nothing. So far as the
House is concerned the Taft-
Hartley Act stands because it
cannot agree on a substitute.”
Chicago “Tribune” has de-
scribed the considered alterna-
tive measure, the Wood Bill, as
“a virtual re-enactment of the
Taft law.” It commented:
“There is no more chance of a
Congress repealing the principle
of the Taft law than there is of
repealing the principle of the
anti-trust laws, and for the same
reason: This nation will not
allow itself to be at the mercy
of a few men who want to run it
in their own interest.”
In N. Y. “Herald Tribune”
Walter Lippmann has inter-
preted Congress action as mak-
ing it clear that “for the present
the Taft-Hartley Act can be
amended and given a new name.
but it cannot be repealed. He
pointed out: “Congress contains
a majority—not a big majority
but a majority —who are on
record for the Taft-Hartley Act
or something fairly near to it.
There is no longer a sure
majority which could again
override the President’s veto.
But there is a sure majority to
prevent repeal, and to compel
a compromise which, at least on
—"Kasseler Zeitung” (U.S. Zone).
Germany: “Who defends ME?”
the crucial question of strikes
against the public interest, is
similar to the Taft-Hartley Act.”
Happy Siam.
They haven’t any Corns worth
a hoot in Siam, according to an
authority there, and from that
and other things do blessings
flow.
Main reason for the dearth of
Corns, as given in a two-column
survey by a London “Times”
special correspondent on the
spot, is that, in contrast to
China and Burma, most of the
Siamese peasants work land
they themselves own.
There may, as well, be some-
thing in the Siamese character
making it immune to the virus,
since “thousands of young men
from Siam have studied in the
West, but those who have be-
come at all influenced by
Marxist doctrines can be num-
bered on the fingers of one
hand.”
Then there’s the politico-eco-
nomic side; “Alone in Asia,
Siam has been able to evolve
gradually and in its own way.
Its growth has not been diverted
or accelerated by Western rule,
by the successive shocks of in-
vasion and counter-invasion, or
by armed revolution and civil
strife. Its periodical coups
d’etat are usually bloodless
affairs which hardly touch the
life of the country as a whole.”
And then there’s the country
itself, with, as pictured by the
“Times” man, plenty of rice in
the fields, plenty of fish in the
rivers, no real pressure of popu-
lation on resources, a religion
which is still a force in the life
of the people and, in the numer-
ous fairs and festivals, “some of
that color and gaiety so dear, to
the Oriental heart.”
Result: “Siam gives the visi-
tor the impression of being the
happiest country in Asia.”
Maybe it was on somewhere
else that good Haroun Chifley
based his notion of a Golden Age.
No War.
Yet another in the lately
greatly - increased number of
crystal-ball gazers who see no
sign of open war breaking out,
historian Professor Arnold
Toynbee told a New York audi-
ence :
“I do not believe that anything
very sensational is going to hap-
pen for quite a long time in in-
ternational affairs. I know that
many wise people, in that
respect, would strongly disagree
with that. I know many thought-
ful and well-informed people
believe that there will be a shoot-
ing war and that the Western
world will be attacked by the
Russians.
“I don’t believe the Russians
will attack the Western world
in that way because I don’t
think they’re so foolish. We all,
of course, make many mistakes
all the time in public affairs, and
the Russians make their enor-
mous mistakes as well as our-
selves. But I see no evidence
that they are as stupid as that.”
Professor Toynbee added,
however, that “though it may
sound comforting to say one
doesn’t believe in a third fighting
war, the alternative is something
very troublesome and difficult
and something that needs very
good nerves and long staying-
power, and that is the ability to
fight the cold war for a great
many years to come, to expect to
have to live with this very worry-
ing political thing, very difficult
for those of us who haven’t been
used to the idea of a per-
manent, difficult and worrying
political situation which we have
to expect to live with perhaps
for all our lives and for our
children’s lives, too.”
Still, that was not a hopeless
prospect: “I believe that we can
be of good hope because I be-
lieve that if we take the oppor-
tunity of the cold war, to be in-
spired by it, to set our own
house in order, to improve our
own conditions in the Western
world the future lies in our
hands and we shall create such
a social and spiritual climate in
the world that in the end will, in
a rather undramatic and gradual
way, affect the Russian one-
sixth of the world and make one
world,” perhaps a generation or
so hence.
Official Denials.
A specific instance commented
on by Washington “Post” gives
a rather dubious value to U.S.
official denials of reported in-
ternational dealings behind the
scenes.
On April 19 U.S. General
Clay in Berlin, it states, said he
knew of no Russian feelers to-
wards lifting the blockade. Next
day an authoritative U.S. State
Department spokesman said that
“the reticence toward the rumors
[on the same issue] was in no
sense a desire to be mysterious,
but solely in order to avoid mis-
leading the public”—a typical,
and universal, brand of political
double-talk by innuendo, in this
case naturally interpreted as
meaning a desire not to feed
baseless hopes.
To cap that lot, President
Truman himself, on April 21,
blandly declared that he knew
nothing about any peace-feelers.
Then, with the announcement
of the agreement to lift block-
ade and counter-blockade, the
Soviet “Tass” newsagency spilt
the beans; not only stating that
the talks had in fact been going
on since the end of March —three
weeks before the U.S. official
denials of them —but also giving
the record of the conversations,
and adding that they were initi-
ated by the U.S. itself.
Rare Milk, Very.
It’s reported by “Christian
Science Monitor’s” natural-
science editor, thus:
“Milk is selling for $lO,OOO
[£A3l2o] a quart in New York
City, A special kind of milk,
that’is —mouse milk.”
It “plays a vital part in cer-
tain biological studies,” particu-
larly in the College of Physicians
and Surgeons, which, moreover,
is where they milk ’em —thous-
ands of mice producing only two
quarts a year.
“After each new family the
mother is milked just once.”
There’s no doubt whatever
it’s a wonderful country—they
milk ’em with machines! “It
takes extreme patience, accord-
ing to the chief mouse-farmer,
and a specially-designed minia-
ture milking-machine based on
the same suction fundamental
used by large dairies.”
Dragnet Digest.
MacArthur. —As concentrated by a
correspondent quoted in “Life”: “I
had to come all the way to Tokyo to
learn one simple thing. Never under-
estimate a man because he over-
estimates himself.”
* * * *
A Judge Scratches Himself. —Holly-
wood depictions of U.S. court pro-
ceedings can’t be altogether hokum.
Instance one of the many scenes of
its kind in the current protracted
trial of 11 leading U.S. Corns. “One
lawyer,” Chicago “Tribune” reported,
“asserted that the Judge had sought
to prejudice the jury by scratching
his head during defence statements.
The Judge retorted that when he
scratched his head, the only signifi-
cance to be attached was that he
wanted to scratch his head, and that
he wasn’t going to stop it to please
the defence.”
* * * *
Russia’s Rockets. —Interviewed by
N. Y. “Times,” Dr. Walther Riedel,
chief designer and director of develop-
ment at Nazi Germany’s great Peene-
munde rocket-plant and since the war
assisting the U.S. in the same field,
has stated that Russia not only has
the V-2 bomb, through taking Peene-
munde and other plants, but also
secured “a lot of pertinent data” on
the winged V-2, which the Germans
had just perfected. As well, Russia
has had since the end of the war at
least two other German products of
that kind —an unguided anti-aircraft
rocket, and the C-2, a “ground-t -
air missile” 23.6 ft. long, 2.7 ft. in
diameter, which can be “guided in
attack on invading aircraft.”
* * * *
Potted Comrade. —N. Y. “Daily
Mirror” labor writer: “After all,
there is a bit of Titoism in every
Comrade with a good income.”
* * * *
Tuna Beating Salmon. —“Tuna,”
says a “Wall-street Journal” report,
“may swim ahead of salmon this
year as the No. 1 U.S. canned fish.”
In 1936 tuna packers put 65,000,0001 b.
in tins, compared with salmon can-
ners’ 405,000,0001 b. Last year’s
figures were: tuna, 171,000,0001 b.;
salmon, 232,000,000,
* * * *
Corns in Italy. —A staff-corres-
pondent of “Christian Science Moni-
tor,” reporting from Rome, states
that Italy’s four-party coalition
Government “is no longer willing to
tolerate the Communists’ 24-hours-a-
-day campaign to keep Italy 'poor,
chaotic and restless in order to hand
it over to the Soviet Union.” This
represents the “remarkable change”
that has been developing in the
Government’s attitude towards Com-
munists over the past 10 months.
Among other signs, “It has been
shown in the increasingly rigorous
methods used by the Italian police
against Communist street-demonstra-
tors.” It “adds up to one very clear
conclusion” —that “there are rough
days ahead for the Italian servants of
Moscow.”
* * * *
Tito Going Strong. —When he in-
spected Tito’s domain a week or two
back, N. Y. “Times” correspondent
C. L, Sulzberger found the Marshal
in the pink: “Rumors of insurrec-
tion within the country are ridicu-
lous Cominform endeavors to
foment internal opposition have
failed.” In fact, “Marshal Tito has
gained popularity, even among
former opponents, by his indepen-
dent, nationalist line.” That Russia
would risk a war to smash Tito, the
correspondent found highly unlikely.
* * * *
Sales Decline. —America’s National
City Bank has given out figures
showing that no fewer than 335
U.S. manufacturing concerns in a
score of industries reported sales
declines last year (the 335 did nearly
$ 10,000,000,000-worth of business
during the year). “Sales were off 14
per cent, from the 1947 level, but
net income was off 47 per cent.,
costs staying very high.” One effect
noted by “U.S. News and World
Report” was the union workers in a
Knoxville textile mill accepting re-
ductions of 15 to 20 per cent, to
enable the plant to reopen: “This is
a situation that unions are likely to
face in the months ahead in a number
of industries where business is de-
clining.”
* * ♦ ♦
Democracy by Bayonet.—Holding
that it should have been evident from
the start that “instilling democracy in
a conquered people by the rule of
the bayonet or under any military
government, no matter how benefi-
cent” would be bound to fail,
N. Y. “Times” military writer
Hanson W. Baldwin insists that “the
signs are clear —indubitably so in
Germany—that there has been no real
political or spiritual regeneration”
brought about by the occupation-
attempts to woo former Nazi Ger-
many or militarist Japan over to the
democratic outlook. The rub is that
“to protect Western Europe—and
specifically Western Germany—against
Communist aggression and to provide
Japan with self-defence against both
internal and external foes, we may
sooner or later have to arm our
former enemies.”
* ♦ * *
Divide and Annex. —N. Y. “Times”
editorially notes a change: “The
classic phrase that has always been
applied to the ‘imperialists’ is ‘divide
and rule.’ The Soviet Union has
gone that one better. It is now
‘divide and annex.’ The Soviet
Union’s de facto annexation of North
Korea is a good example.”
* * * *
Planned Depression. —Sound U.S.
thinker Bernard M. Baruch, expand-
ing further on his theme that “Some
of the worst mistakes of modern
times have been committed by
Government planners”: “In 1927 the
Bank of England and the Federal
Reserve decided to reduce interest
rates to stimulate business. It was
this bit of credit-loosening which
started the speculative boom of 1928
and 1929, and which led to the bust
of 1929, and the subsequent evil
years of unemployment, when the
planners lacked the courage to stop
in time what they had started.”


9
09
CO
m
OF GOOD WINE
FOR MORE THAN
-A CENTURY-
PERSONAL ITEMS
Lecturing to Queensland medicos in
Brisbane, Dr. Albert Coates, 0.8. E.,
senior surgeon at Royal Melbourne
Hospital, renewed acquaintance with
some appreciative patients—men on
whom he operated under appalling condi-
tions in Sumatra and the Burmese and
Siamese prison camps, where, captured by
the Japs, he practised for three years.
Senior surgeon to the A.I.F. in Malaya,
attached to the 2/10th A.G.H. staff in
Singapore, Dr. Coates left in the 1942
exodus, got as far as Sumatra and was
held there by the crying need for his skill.
Some of the anaesthetic he used was dis-
tilled from jungle plants by a Dutch
chemist who stayed with him. Remini-
scence must have been the main menu
item at the dinner 50-odd of his former
patients gave him in Brisbane.
As upright as a post, as solid as a
bulldozer and still tough enough to make
hard-boiled look underdone, Dr. J. S.
Elkington rolled into The Bulletin look-
ing what he is—a retired blue-water
sailor and medico who served in sail
and steam before coming to that favorite
anchorage of the breed, the quarantine
service. Eikington was chief quarantine
officer in Brisbane between 1909 and
1928, after which, having boarded more
ships in a seaway than Captain Kidd, he
took on the directorship of Queensland’s
Tropical Hygiene department. In his
spare time he dredged into the vast reser-
voir of reminiscence and wrote; as
“Colonel Bungstarter” and “Captain
Pintle” he is familiar to generations of
Bulletin readers. He has a. son in the
Merchant Navy, had an uncle a mate with
Bully Hayes and keeps in touch with the
sea by pulling fish out of it up Caloundra
way.
“Uramao”; An interested follower of
the Maoriland All Blacks’ South African
tour must be Dick Taiaroa, of Taumutu
(M.L.), who toured Australia and Eng-
land with the first Maori Rugby team in
1888. Recently past his 86th milestone,
the old stager is the only surviving
member of the team which on its
world tour played 108 games and lost
only 23. Unlike the present-day ball-
booters, the teams of the ’eighties re-
ceived no out-of-pocket expenses, and to
keep both muscles and pocket fit worked
in the stokeholds of the ship carrying
them overseas.
Few Australian singers have made such
a meteoric rise as Jack Lanigan, the Mel-
bourne tenor. Born in 1921 at Seddon
(Vic.), he was schooled at the Christian
Brothers’ College, Clifton Hill, worked
in a munitions factory from 1940 to 1943,
served two years in the Army and, de-
mobbed, won a Melbourne “Sun” aria
competition. Then he launched out as
an actor with the National Theatre Move-
ment, displayed a mellifluous voice in
one of its opera seasons, left last year
for London to study with Dino Borgioli,
and is now booked with the New London
Opera Company for a six-weeks’ season
in which he will sing the tenor roles in
“Falstaff,” “Don Pasquale” and “La
Boheme” alongside world-famous singers.
After a brilliant debut at the Sholl Opera
House first night he was asked by another
company to sing for it in the autumn.
James Graham, who recently benefited
by £5O under Major-General Grim wade’s
will, was for many years Grimwade’s
barber. Graham runs a saloon, said to
be the oldest in Melbourne, adjacent to
the courts, and most of the Judges, K.Cs
and other legal lights figuring in the one
place have been shaved or shorn in the
other.
W. H. WJiiddon, who was Lang’s
appointee as director of the N.S.W. State
Lottery when it was started in 1931,
has died in Sydney. A man of many
parts in his long life, in his early days
he kept the old Adelaide Hotel in Pad-
dington, then turned to the pursuit of
the wily taxpayer, entering the N.S.W.
Taxation Department in 1896, and rising
to Commissioner. He was an organist
of some class, and conducted numerous
suburban choral societies —J.C.W. tried
to get him once as chorus-master. The
turf knew him well, and Tatt’s, in Sydney,
twice had him as chairman. He was 90
at the end.
Captain Roy Kendall, selected in Bris-
bane for the Liberal-Country party Senate
team, is following a common practice
of retired R.N. officers in having a shot
at politics. Twice torpedoed in the
Kaiser’s War, he came back for
more in the opening days of the next,
and soon after convoys were instituted he
was commodoring them across the
Atlantic; three ships he was in were
bombed out of action. In 1942 he sewed
on a fourth ring, came out to Mac-
Arthur’s headquarters as Admiralty repre-
sentative, and used his sea experience to
supervise coast-watching services in the
Netherlands and Borneo. These days he’s
secretary of Indooroopilly’s Q.P.P. branch
and runs a newsagency there.
For 43 years with The Bulletin’s
publishing department before he was
killed in an accident last week on the
Liverpool-road, Fred Coxhead used his
spare time in practising Christianity, and
on holidays bicycled to country towns,
addressing prayer-meetings and distribut-
ing tracts. The patients of Waterfall
sanatorium on the South Coast will
remember his fine singing voice and
portable harmonium —he visited them
often —and The Bulletin the sincere
little service he conducted in the com-
posing-room after victory against Japan,
He joined the paper in its Lower-George-
street home in 1906, and at the end was
helping to distribute The Bulletin and
“Woman’s Mirror” to agents throughout
the country. He was the building’s
Oldest Inhabitant.
Dr, N. L. Edson, of Dunedin’s Medi-
cal School,, becomes the first professor of
biochemistry at Otago’s counterpart of
that institution. A Travis Research and
Beit Fellowship winner, he will be given
a financial leg along on his trip to
England and the U.S. to study t.b. by the
Travis Trust, so that he may be offered
on return the honorary directorship of
the Travis laboratory, now investigating
that disease.
When Mcßeath called on Dr, Thomas
King and Marjorie Lawrence in Mel-
bourne the young doctor, speaking
with a deep Miami accent, related how
he and his wife had met. Lonely and
seeking consolation, he took himself to
the opera. He’d heard about this Aus-
tralian girl, but wasn’t interested until
Marjorie appeared on the stage; before
the final curtain he had made up his mind
to meet her. Barging into her dressing-
room after the performance with 200
others he introduced himself, arranged a
supper appointment and, despite the fact
that Marjorie wasn’t interested in Ameri-
can men, two months later she was
married to one. She has been his only
patient since. Acquiring a knowledge
of the Sister Kenny method of dealing
with the i.p. which suddenly descended
DR. THOMAS KING.
on his wife in the midst of a performance
in Mexico City, he has since devoted
himself to her cure, and has seen her
steadily gaining ground in her valiant
struggle. The sketching performance
ended with Marjorie singing to Mcßeath
his own Digger-composition, “I’m Going
Back Again to Yarrawonga.”
The George Taylor Gold Medal,
donated by the Australian aviation-
enthusiast of the name, has been awarded
by the Royal Aeronautical Society to
George Edwards, Vickers’ chief designer.
With the firm since 1935, he has put into
the air such familiars as the Vickers
Viking airliner, the military-transport
Valetta and the new Viscount, which is
claimed to* be the first turbo-propeller
airliner completely designed as such.
Carrier Sydney’s bread-buttering machines
and h. and c. showers have been described well
enough, but most people have taken for granted
the adaptability of the man who left the grey-
hound length of cruiser Hobart to handle, for
the first time, a spreading acreage of deck and
wind-resistant sides that block his vision for
150-odd feet when coming alongside a buoy
or pier. Sketched here by Dubois, Captain Roy
Dowling, D. 5.0., A.D.C., now a well-knit 48,
learned ship-handling in the antithesis of his
present command—sloop Swan, which pocket
craft he drove in 1937-38. A gunnery
specialist, he commissioned the British cruiser
Naiad as executive officer with this asset in
1939, and fought in her for two years through
all a savagely triumphant enemy could hurl
against her in the Mediterranean, until, in
March, 1942, one dark night on the Malta-
Alexandria run, a torpedo sent her to the
bottom. Dowling was picked up, to become
Director of Plans at Navy Office, Melbourne,
then Deputy Chief of the Naval Staff; soon
after gaining his captaincy in 1944, he assumed
command of cruiser Hobart, refitted after her
torpedo damage. He worked his ship and her
CARRIER CAPTAIN.
new crew up to battle efficiency, took her
through most of the bombardments leading to
Japan and saw their culmination when he
dropped anchor in Tokio Bay. While standing-
by his carrier .in England he had a week’s
training in a Moth, landed on Sydney’s flight-
deck in a Sea Fury fighter, and owns to a
merited pride in the seamanship, gunnery and
flying efficiency of his latest command.
The Venerable Henry Brune Atkinson
has called it a day after 25 years as
Archdeacon of Launceston and Darwin
(Tas). Ordained in 1901, he was one of
Tasmania’s first uni. graduates, and knows
the island from end to end. Two other
“firsts” claimed for the small, active
prelate are Tassie’s first motor-bike
licence —he hiked over outback roads
when a young bush parson—and the first
Tasmanian to be appointed vicar-general,
a post he held between the death of the
bishop and appointment of his successor.
An ardent advocate for Tasmania, he’s
an authority on its birds, abo. folk-lore
and nature fauna.
An extraordinary windfall comes Mel-
bourne University’s way by medium of
the estate of Mary Anne Lockie, of
Mount Gambier (S.A.). A recluse at her
home two miles from the Mount, she
recently collapsed and died in the town’s
main street. Searchers found a hoard of
silver coins at her house and a will
leaving the ’varsity nearly £lOO,OOO. The
Lockie family w;ere graziers in Victoria
near the South Australian border.
If laughter is a tonic, Maurice Col-
leano is overdue for his M.D. —he has
spent the last 25 years exercising the
risible faculties of audiences in Aus-
tralia, England, America and on the Con-
tinent, and, with his wife and three
others of the family, is currently treat-
COMEDIAN COLLEANO.
ing patients at Sydney Tivoli. Maybe
there was a Colleano performing hand-
springs on the beach when Phillip
arrived. Anyway, Cornelius Sullivan, his
six daughters and four sons were, under
his wife’s name of Colleano, entertaining
audiences up and down eastern Australia
in the first 15 years or so of this cen-
tury. In 1922 the family (with the ex-
ception of son Con, who left the group
and has since risen to some heights as a
tightrope-performer) moved, “bag, bag-
gage and parrot,” to England, played one
season there and crossed to America,
where their acrobatics, dancing and
comedy made Broadway in very quick
time. They played around those parts
for seven years—Maurice more or less
taking over the act in 1928—went to Eng-
land in 1932 for “Crazy Month” at the
Palladium (an act from which grew the
Crazy Gang), then to Paris and on to
the Scala in Berlin. The U.S.A, fol-
lowed, then Hamburg, Leipzig, Dussel-
dorf, Munich and, just before the war,
England, where they remained to give
some 800 performances for the troops.
In 1945 they appeared in the first post-
war Command Performance at the
Coliseum; later they played to a large
part of the Eighth Army, which had
then just returned, and to an audi-
ence graced by the Queen, Princesses,
Churchill, Cunningham and Mont-
gomery.
Edmund Alfred Drake-Brockman, who
was Chief Justice of the Commonwealth
Arbitration Court, was sworn in as a
Judge of that body in April, 1927. The
son of a ’ surveyor-general of Westralia,
he was a fully-fledged barrister when he
took in his shingle to command a com-
pany on Gallipoli and later the Fourth
Australian Infantry Brigade in France
and Belgium; his decorations includ-
ing D. 5.0., C. 8., C.M,G., with six
“mentions.” Back in mufti, he had a
term as Senator, in which role he repre-
sented Australia at the League of Nations
Assembly. In World War II he left the
Bench to take charge for a while of
Seymour camp in Victoria. Sixty-five at
the end.
Into the Silence:
In Wellington (M.L.), at 80, lan Duncan,
Director of the Reserve Bank and one-time
president of Wellington Racing Club. He
owned the Waikanae and Elderslie studs, homes
of several champions.
In Melbourne, Lieutenant-Colonel A. B.
Lodge, D. 5.0., builder of the Shrine of Remem-
brance. He was president of the Bth Battalion,
A.1.F., Association, and served with that
unit on Gallipoli and in France. Later he
fought on the Afghanistan front. Back in
Australia, he started with his brothers as a
master builder, their works including St. Pat-
rick’s Cathedral spires and the South African
war memorial in St. Kilda-road.
In Darwin, at 78, Teddy Knowles, of
Knuckey’s Lagoon, a landmark familiar to
War II servicemen. Known to most old Terri-
torians, he was among the first settlers on the
Daly River under the Gilruth Settlement
scheme, and as owner and trainer was widely
known on Westralian and Territorian race-
tracks.


WOMEN'S LETTERS
From Melbourne
One of the loveliest gowns in her ex-
tensive wardrobe was worn by Marjorie
Lawrence at a recital last week. Of
heavenly-blue satin, it had godets of blue
ninon heavily embroidered in paillettes,
crystals and tiny pearls. The embroidery
was repeated on the deep square neckline
and on the long, tight-fitting sleeves.
Gleaming diamond ornaments and tiara
completed the ensemble. Among the
appreciative audience were singers Joyce
Macartney, wearing a brown swing-back
coat with a beige fox collar and a feather-
trimmed hat, and recently-returned Tessa
Smallpage, whose mink coat was worn
with a small brown hat which had a tall
beige feather-mount. Mrs. J. Miller’s
warm brown musquash coat was worn
over a brown frock, and her small brown
hat was trimmed, with veiling. She was
accompanied by her daughter Mrs.
Charles Davis, whose black coat had the
new shawl collar of Persian-lamb ; her
beige felt hat carried black ospreys at
each side. Feature of the concert was
the group of songs composed by Austra-
lians, among them Linda Phillips and
Phyllis Batchelor.
The Brookes lady hostessed a late-
afternoon party at Kurneh,. her South
Yarra home, to say “thank you” to the
workers who assisted at the one-day
appeal for the Queen Victoria Hospital,
of which she is president. It is expected
that this appeal will net the hospital funds
almost £8000; about a quarter of the
total was raised at the Market Fair, which
was held at the hospital on the birthday
anniversary of the sovereign whose name
the hospital bears. During race week
(here will be a ball at the Palais Royal at
which guests will wear the costumes worn
in jubilee year.
The programme which Eugene
Goossens gave with the Victorian Sym-
phony Orchestra was an all-British one:
Elgar’s “Cockaigne” overture, Vaughan
Williams’s “London” Symphony and
Bliss’s Piano Concerto, in which Allen
McCristal was soloist (Allen’s wife is the
well-known Brisbane pianist Dorothy
Gadsby). Mrs. Conrad Charlton wore
with her glowing tangerine velvet gown
a brown fur coat. The Hyde lady added
white lamb to her black frock. Mrs. J.
Chaldjan covered her black frock with
a mink coat. Joan Silk was cosiness per-
sonified in a scarlet wool coat. A beige
coat and small black hat made neat com-
bination for pianist Vera Bradford, just
back from an A.B.C, concert tour.
Muriel Eloise Howard, only daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. H. W. Howard, of
Middle Brighton, has announced her
engagement to Dr. Ronald T. Davies,
younger son of Mrs. W. A. T. Davies, of
Williams-road, Toorak, and the late Mr.
Davies. Date of the wedding has been
set for July 14. When Muriel finished
her Conservatorium studies she joined
J. C. Williamson, singing soprano leads
in Gilbert and! Sullivan. She is also well-
known for her radio work. When she is
married at the Little Memorial Chapel,
Scotch College, she will have as her
bridesmaid Margaret Cox, who intro-
duced her to Dr. Davies. About 18
months ago Dr. Davies returned from
England, and he is now doing post-
graduate work at the Royal Melbourne
and Children’s Hospitals,
With refreshing informality members
of the Dante Alighieri Society greeted
the Italian Minister in Australia, Signor
Giulio del Balzo, at a late-afternoon
party. Signora del Balzo was unable to
be present, not yet having recovered from
an operation she had in Sydney. The
party was held at the Kew home of the
president of the society* Dr. S. Santoro.
Mrs. Santoro helped her husband receive
the guests wearing a black taffeta baller-
ina frock. Sister of the hostess, Sylvia
Clancy, wore a tailored black wool frock.
Madame Mario Vigano topped her black
Persian-lamb coat with a black, osprey-
trimmed hat. Her daughter, Mrs. D. J.
O’Donnell, also favored black Persian-
lamb. A pink-and-white silk candy-
striped frock was worn by Mrs. N. Bor-
sari under a silver-fox cape. Mrs. Eric
Brightfort tucked a pink-and-white
candy-striped scarf in her tailored black
coat; soft feathers trimmed her black
hat. Betty Cash draped a short black
lace mantilla over her hat and matched
it with an embroidered frock. Over her
black lace and crepe cocktail frock Mrs.
A, Santospirito wore a platina-fox cape.
Professors Chisholm and Rubbo lent an
academic note to the party.
Archbishop Mannix celebrated nuptial
mass at St. Patrick’s Cathedral when
Veronica, youngest daughter of Lady
Syme, of Blythswood, Kew, and the late
Sir Geoffrey Syme, was married to Peter,
only son of Mr. and Mrs. W. Condon, of
Kewl Rich cream and gold satin brocade
fashioned the beautiful gown, which was
slimly-cut and had a deep square neck
and long, tight-fitting sleeves. The skirt
flared slightly from the knees to form a
short fan-shaped train, while a court
train, three and a half yards in length,
fell from the shoulders, where it was held
by four large brocade-covered buttons.
The 200-year-old bridal veil of Honiton
lace (which came by air from England,
and was sent by Lady Syme’s mother,
Mrs. T. Garnett) was mounted on deep-
cream tulle and held by a tiara. The
bride carried a bouquet of real orange-
blossom, and pinned to her bodice was a
large diamond-star brooch, lent by her
sister, Mrs. John Hayne. The bride was
given away by her nephew, Geoffrey
Haggard, and was attended by six brides-
maids, headed by her 10-year-old niece
Antonia Clemons. The others were Jen-
nifer Haggard (also a niece of the bride),
Elizabeth Cahill, Julia Mary Rouse, Ann
Brenan and Lana Macrossan. They wore
ankle-length dresses of deep-cream stiff
satin with fitted bodices, short puff-sleeves
and bell-shaped skirts which showed their
gold shoes. Their waist-length, gold-
spotted cream tulle veils were held to
their heads with gold ribands, and their
posies of tuberoses were tied with gold
ribbon. The small train-bearer. Felicity
Joan Hayne, another niece, wore a short-
waisted dress of deep-cream stiff satin,
gold sandals and a gold ribbon round her
curls. Best man was Hugh McKenzie,
and Hugh Syrne, Peter McDougall, Peter
Schlict, Bede Leben and Dr. R. Denton
were ushers at the cathedral.
Pale-gold and white chrysanthemums
in large bowls tied with white tulle bows
decorated the entrance-hall and staircase,
and also formed the huge floral piece
above the mantel in the drawing-room at
Blythswood, where Lady Syme and the
bridegroom’s parents received the guests.
A large yellow-lined marquee had been
set on the lawn. Almost 500 attended the
reception, where a buffet luncheon was
served. Bunches of holly, garlands of
autumn-tinted foliage and berries decor-
ated the deep-cream brocade cloth of the
bridal table. Smaller tables were covered
with green cloths and centred with amber
bowls of fruit and berries. Lady Syme’s
deep-fuschia marocain gown had wide,
flowing sleeves; her sleeveless coat was
bordered with mink. The ’groom’s
mother, Mrs. W. Condon, wore a frock
and jacket of fine black angora and a
softly-swathed hat of pastel-blue. Assist-
ing the hostess were her three elder
daughters, Mesdames Geoffrey Haggard,
John Hayne and Max Clemons. Mrs.
Denison Deasey, her granddaughter, was
in a full-skirted beige-wool coat and
crimson velvet beret trimmed with black
ospreys. Miranda Casey’s ensemble and
small hat were of navy tonings. A snow-
leopard collar trimmed Judith Silk’s black
tailored coat; her small beige straw
bonnet had a gold band trimming. Her
sister Joan wore a black jacket-suit and
small black cloche hat. Pamela Knox
favored an all-navy ensemble.
From Sydney
Last Monday the Governor, Lieut.-
General Northcott, and Mrs. Northcott
held a late-afternoon reception at Gov-
ernment House in honor of Captain
Dowling and the officers of H.M.A.
Aircraft Carrier Sydney, now the flag-
ship of the Australian Navy. On Mon-
day, June 13, at 11 a.m., his Excellency
the Governor will hold a levee in honor
of the birthday of His Majesty the King.
The city after which the warship was
named greeted H.M.A.S. Sydney last
Friday when a company of about 400 of
her men marched from Man-o’-War Steps
up Macquarie-street, down Martin-place
and along George-street to the Town
Hall., Impressive moment was the salute
to the Cenotaph. At the Town Hall the
men were welcomed by Lord Mayor
O’Dea and the aldermen and later enter-
tained to lunch. The Lord Mayor
presented the Sydney’s commander,
Captain R. R. Dowling, with a replica
of the City of Sydney’s crest, which will
be hung in the carrier.
To say au revoir to Evie Hayes, star of
“Annie Get Your Gun,” who goes off on
a month’s holiday after over two years’
work as Annie, without missing a per-
formance (she says she will spend most
of the time coloring her nails, a thing
Annie can’t do), J. C. Williamson staged
a party in the Gloucester-room of the
Australia. The place crackled with
laughter and greetings from the door-
way where Evie and June Clyde, who will
act as her locum, stood side by side to
welcome the guests. Every second per-
son was a theatrical personality.
Easily seen were tall actor Claude
Flemming and producer Norman Lee.
Webb Tilton, male star of “Annie,”
smiled on all. He and his wife,
a nice slim girl from Oregon (U.S.), who
pinned lily-of-the-valley in the lapel of
her deep-wine-colored suit, go back to
America in August. . Both Evie and
June wore slim-fitting black frocks
and black hats. Evie had a white upright
ostrich plume in the front of hers, and
June wore a picturesque affair of black
tulle on her blonde head. Annie’s hus-
band, Will Mahony, and her mother, Mrs.
Eva Hayes, were a delight. Mrs. Hayes’s
frock was black worn with a cape of
platina-fox, and she carried a posy of
violets. Will Mahony evidently believes
“there’s no business like show business.”
He talked blithely and expertly on play-
producing, props and “timing” to a
deeply-interested group.
George Falkiner, of Haddon Rig,
Warren, was married in London last
week. His bride, formerly Miss Pauline
Weir, is the younger daughter of Major
and Mrs. Frank Weir, of Berthangles,
Yass.
The Young Chinese Relief Movement
is organising the twelfth Dragon Festival
Ball, the objective being to establish an
orphanage in Canton, China. The ball,
which will be held at the Trocadero on
June 14, is to be under the patronage of
the Ambassador for China and Madame
Kan Nai Kuang, and the Consul-
General and Madame Woo Shih Ying.
Madame Kan will receive 11 debutantes,
who will be presented by the president,
Mrs. D. Y. Narme.
Decor for the ball will include life-
size models of Chinese girls taken from
some of the prettiest in Sydney. A
special souvenir will be sold in the
shape of a dragon brooch made of silver
and blue kingfisher feathers. Lucky
numbers will be attached, and prizes in-
clude nylon stockings, bath-towels, cham-
pagne and beer. A large official table
will be hostessed by Madame Kan to-
gether with Consul-General and Madame
Woo Shih Ying. Guests who have ac-
cepted invitations are Premier McGirr
and Mrs, McGirr and important Consular
groups.
The Federal president of the War
Widows’ Guild, Mrs. G, A. Vasey, is
over in Sydney for the Federal conference
which will be attended by delegates from
all States. This will be held from
Monday, June 6, to Friday, June 10, in
the Rural Bank boardroom.
A snakecharmer in a fashionable line
of business could learn a few points from
famous conductor Rafael Kubelik. The
tall, slim Czech mesmerised the first
violins, the second violins and the other
instruments with his compelling gaze. He
swayed towards them, his curving arms
and expressive hands weaving rhythmic
charm, imploring, commanding. If the
players had suddenly done the rope-trick
and had vanished through the Town Hall
roof,to join the singing stars, it would
scarcely have surprised last Thursday
night’s audience. As it was the players
discoursed very eloquently with their
composers.
Mrs. Kubelik was a latecomer to the
concert. She had to wait to put her small
son to sleep, so it was half-time when
she hurried in in her ankle-length frock
of black romaine covered by a Persian-
lamb coat. Pianist Dorothy and ’cellist
Lauri Kennedy were in the audience to
hear son John making his debut with the
orchestra. John’s instrument, like dad’s,
is the ’cello —that plaintive thing that
seems always about to burst asunder with
the griefs of the world. John was a
great success, and his wife, who was in
the family party, must have been proud
of him. A posy tied with Czechoslo-
vakia’s colors was handed to Rafael after
the Concerto (the Elgar in E Minor). He
with a bow preferred them to John, but
the ’cellist, with equal politeness, insisted
that Kubelik keep the tribute.
An electric lawnmower, a landscape
painting valued at 50 guineas by Erik
Langker, president of the Royal Art
Society, and a holiday at Mandalay,
Nowra, are three of the prizes in the
1949 Radio Party Drive in aid of the
Food for Babies Fund. Aim is to get
500 hostesses each to run a party. These
parties will end with a grand flourish
on December 6, when names of the lucky
hostesses will be announced. The first
committee meeting of the year was held
in Prince’s last Thursday afternoon.
President Mrs. lan Jacoby got things
going to a good start, and looked attrac-
tive in a cinnamon-brown outfit, jaunty
with a waist-length bolero. Her match-
ing brown hat wore a green plume.
Social secretary Mrs. Ken Pointing’s
black tailored suit and small black hat
were admired. Shirley Gray, in beige,
and Mary Corrick, in sapphire-blue suit,
were two young members present.
Ninety friends of the movement attended
the meeting.
Maoriland basso Oscar Natzka, who
comes with an international reputation,
has a modest manner and a friendly
smile. He has also height and a beard,
probably grown when he was in the cast
of the film “Meet the Navy.” Oscar, who
has sung leads in Covent Garden and in
New York operas and has had five com-
mand performances, was the star of the
late-afternoon party in the Castlereagh-
room of the Australia last Saturday.
With him was his wife, a tall blonde
Auckland girl who wore with her heather-
mixture suit a natty grey-green hat looped
with ribbon at the right side. Another
good-looker at the party was Mrs. Fred
McCallum. Natzka’s concert tour opens
in Sydney at the Town Hall on June 22.
Sydney and Melbourne still remember
the grand work for the Repertory theatre
done by producer Gregan McMahon.
His love for the stage is coming out in
granddaughter Ann McMahon, the sub-
ject of this photograph. Ann, now tak-
ing arts at Sydney University, will play
the romantic part of Frida in the play
“Henry IV,” by Pirandello, This, like
all of Pirandello’s works, is elusive and
imaginative. The play will be produced
by John Gould in the Manresa Hall,
North Sydney, on June 15, 16 and 18.
The St. John of God training centre at
Morisset will benefit.
Friendly but not wildly hilarious are
the afternoon parties given by the
members of the committee of the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra to visiting A.B.C.
artists. The customary aftemoon-tea-
drinking in the Empire Society’s drawing-
room introduced world-famed conductor
Rafael Kubelik, his wife and four-year-
old son Martin, and German tenor
Rudolf Schock and his wife to a group
of Sydney’s music enthusiasts. All the
very important people of the Broadcast-
ing Commission were present. The
Alphabetical wives were there, too, and
the Claude Plowman lady in mist-blue
tweeds, and Mrs. Eugene Goossens, her
black frock covered by an almost knee-
length-fur cape.
A proper sense of the fitness of things
in artistic circles was shown by small
Martin Kubelik, who sat on the floor
playing with used photographic bulbs
throughout the speeches. At the con-
clusion of tenor Schock’s few words
which followed his papa’s Martin rose
and vigorously clapped. Mrs. Sydney
Herring had brought the luscious roses,
and Dr. Garnet Halloran the pots of
flowering orchids which decorated the
rooms.
A lady with a mission which all women
must endorse is Lady Butterfield. She
arrived in Sydney in the Arawa on her
world tour to organise among children a
competition for an International flag—
the Flag of Friendship. School-
children will be invited to draw designs
for a flag to symbolise friendship. The
designs will be sent to U.N.E.S.C.O. to
compete against the flags sent by children
of other nations. That organisation
will sponsor a world tour for the winner,
who will journey from country to coun-
try visiting their schools and presenting
the flag. After Australia, Lady Butter-
field will visit Maoriland and Siam.


Divorce Notices.
NOTICE OF CITATION.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY.
Matei'monial Causes Jurisdiction
No. 28 op 1948.
BETWEEN GEORGE LAWRENCE JOHN-
STON Petitioner and VIOLET NELLIE
JOHNSTON Respondent and WILLIAM P.
BRENNAN Co-respondent.
TO VIOLET NELLIE JOHNSTON late
of Primrose Street Rosebery in the State
of Tasmania AND TO WILLIAM P.
BRENNAN late of the same address.—
TAKE NOTICE that the said GEORGE
LAWRENCE JOHNSTON has commenced
a suit against you VIOLET NELLIE
JOHNSTON in this Honourable Court in
which suit you WILLIAM P. BRENNAN
are named as co-respondent and is apply-
ing for a dissolution of his marriage with
you the said VIOLET NELLIE JOHNSTON
on the grounds of your adultery with the
said WILLIAM P. BRENNAN and the
said WILLIAM P. BRENNAN’S adultery
with you and in the said suit the said
GEORGE LAWRENCE JOHNSTON is
claiming the sum of Six hundred pounds
( £600) from you the said WILLIAM P.
BRENNAN as damages in respect of the
said adultery AND TAKE NOTICE that
you the said VIOLET NELLIE JOHN-
STON and you the said WILLIAM P.
BRENNAN are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the office
of the Registrar of this Honourable Court
at Canberra on or before the thirteenth
day of August One thousanfl nine hundred
and forty nine and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the petitioner
may proceed and the suit be heard and
determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may
be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge.
DATED this twenty third day of May
R. G. BAILEY, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, London Circuit, City, Canberra,
Australian Capital Territory.
(L.s.) F. C. P. KEANE, Registrar in
Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO JOHN ROBERT LARSEN late of
Riverstone. —TAKE NOTICE that NORM.
MARY THERESE LARSEN has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 969 of 1947 on
the ground of desertion without just cause
□r excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Begis ry
Supreme Court House King Street Sydney
by the Bth day of July 1949 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from
MAURICE ARTHUR SIMON, Solicitor,
109 Pitt Street, Sydney.— (l.s.)
DOUGHAN, Acting Registrar in Divorce.
THE SERVICE MAIN
Hong Kong os an Issue.
“Ek Dum”: The speech of
Mr. Peter Fraser at the confer-
ence of the New Zealand Labor
party in which he stressed the
urgency for compulsory service
in view of the world situation
calls for some explanation from
Mr. Chifley and his battalion of
“defence” Ministers. It was
especially striking in view of his
remark last September that war
was not imminent or inevitable.
There was an air of urgency
about Mr. Fraser’s speech which
does not square with Mr. Chif-
ley’s easygoing assumption that
there will be no war, that every-
thing will be all right in the
world if all workers are given
the kind of conditions which
apply in Australia—the right to
work or not to work as they
like while drawing abundant
wages and insured against the
normal consequences of prodi-
gality and loafing—for the pre-
sent at any rate.
Mr. Fraser is a shrewd Scot
and quite unlikely to risk his
political career in a moment of
panic. It is quite clear that he
did not believe that the issue
could wait on the election, which
is due to take place later in the
year. And he was right.
If the Communists attack
Hong Kong anything may hap-
pen. Whatever veil may be cast
over the fact that the Chinese
war is Russia’s war it would be
removed so soon as Hong Kong
is assailed, for several reasons.
One is that Hong Kong, if it
is all that it is suggested it will
be, cannot be captured by a
rabble without resources and
without war factories worth the
name. For the first time Mao’s
troops will be fighting a well-
armed and properly-trained
enemy, and the measure and
type of their armament will be
obvious.
Even a Socialist Government
could not sit down under an
attack by a Russian subsidiary,
if it could be proved that it was
Russian-based, without doing
something about, it.
What is little realised is that
Hong Kong is the only port
worth the name in southern
China and that it is highly
essential to a military force
driving southward, especially if
that force has little land trans-
port as land transport is under-
stood in the modern world. To
a peaceful China the port is
more useful in British hands be-
cause of its efficiency, but to a
horde bent on war with the
British in Malaya and elsewhere
it is no use whatever to them in
British hands, and it becomes a
menace on their flank.
On this side of the world Mr.
Fraser appears to be the only
man who appreciates the facts,
Mr. Chifley just goes on smok-
ing his pipe. The unions which
form the bulk of his party go
on intriguing for the destruction
of the British Commonwealth
in the interests of their “father-
land,” Soviet Russia, and doing
everything to make defence,
and particularly the existence of
a force which might be used out
of Australia, impossible.
The outlook of the Socialist
Government of Britain is nearly
as bad. It has allowed the posi-
tion to reach crisis point before
acting. Shanghai had to fall,
British naval ships had to be
shelled arrogantly by rebels and
the British protest ignored be-
fore Mr. Attlee’s Ministers, busy
with the important task of dis-
posing of a nest of Communists
in their own ranks, became con-
cerned about what was going on.
Then it was decided to send
Mr. Alexander, the British
Minister for Defence, to Hong
Kong to report on something on
which there have been desperate
reports for months.
For Tong the place has cried
out for emergency fortification,
for the presence of an aircraft-
carrier and the building of an
effective aerodrome which can-
not be overrun from land —
the only present effective
one is at Kai Tak, on the main-
land, though limited ones have
been established on the sea-
ward side of the island. Mr.
Alexiander gave a promise to
the House of Commons that he
would consider these needs, but
the Cabinet, after giving the
matter solemn thought, decided
that Mr. Alexander would be a
better tonic to the defences than
any armament, so he is being
sent. Of course, being a
civilian, his recommendations
are likely to override those of
men whose business is the de-
signing of defences.
Meanwhile reinforcements of
1500 —a mere handful, having
regard to the needs of the place
-—have sailed to reinforce Hong
Kong and will arrive there per-
haps in three weeks to a month,
by which time anything may
have happened.
They come from Britain,
which is spending £l5 2s. per
head of population on defence
and which maintains a force of
regulars and compulsory trainees
over 700,000 strong, while Aus-
tralia, which is in the Pacific
zone and adjacent to the danger-
points of the situation, cannot
raise a hundred men for a
ceremonial guard without diffi-
culty, and is at the same time
nominally spending about £5
sterling per head of population
on “defence,” though Heaven
alone knows where it is going.
The loss of Hong Kong
would mean the end of British
—and Australian —prestige in
Asia, apart from the material
loss to the British Common-
wealth in trade and facilities. It
would symbolise the end of the
white races in the Far East,
since Hong Kong has always
symbolised, more than any other
possession, British strength.
If it goes Asia will have be-
come Russia’s continent. The
fight, if it comes, will be for far
more than an island and a
peninsula.
As usual, the first aftermaths
of the arrival of Communism in
China are being received with
simple faith at their face-value.
The Communists are playing
mucjh the same game as they
played in Eastern Europe, de-
pending for success on the short-
ness of human memories. They
have gone about with smiling
faces, disappointing hopes of
murder and rapine, and opening
up the Whangpoo River for
ships, though banning all non-
Chinese warships from the river.
And they are doing their best
to coax recognition from the
Western countries.
Once that is granted there will
be a different tune played.
Recognition would be invalu-
able to them because it would
promote them from banditry to
nationality. It would make it
difficult for the Governments
concerned not to admit them
to the world comity of nations
as a “great Power” and to
allow them to displace the
Nationalists in the United
Nations.
There they would join the
satellite bloc and become an in-
valuable ally of Russia, with,
inter alia, command of the
U.N.O. military forces and ad-
ministration for one month in
every five. They would, if they
could adopt the old China’s
status, hold one of the five per-
manent seats on the Security
Council and possess the right to
exercise a veto and various other
privileges of as much use to the
U.S.S.R. as to the new Chinese
northern Government itself.
It is reported that various
nations, including Britain,
France, India and Russia, are
supporters of recognition once
the new Government is set up,
but how far the recognition will
go will certainly be a matter of
serious difference. The United
States is ready to give recogni-
tion, but apparently only as part
of a bargain as to how external
countries and their nationals
with interests in China will be
treated.
There is a second reason why
the Communists are willing to
conciliate trading and other in-
terests at this stage. This is
that China is only partly con-
quered or occupied, and the in-
vaders feel that if they tread
softly and make a good impres-
sion it will help them in taking
over cities further south and in
softening up whatever areas
south of China they intend
to infiltrate. It might, they
no doubt imagine, also have an
effect upon the Chinese of
Hong Kong and help to wean
them from their British allegi-
ance.
Behind this false .front of
kindliness and softness —belied
by everything they did prior to
their descent on Peking—is hard
reality, which is shown by the
grim obstructiveness which they
are showing in dealing with
negotiations for the release of
the damaged British sloop
Amethyst, which they wantonly
shot-up in the Yangtsz River.
They are cheekily demanding
“Use yours as an extra spinnaker , Prendergast, and
We'll soon make shipboard."
compensation for the deaths of
a mere 254 of their troops who
were allegedly killed when Ame-
thyst replied to their fire.
No settlement had been
arrived at up to the week-end,
and the 60 marooned sailors in
the Amethyst were hanging on,
no doubt longing for a Palmer-
ston and a Fisher to arise.
Another Stalemate.
carries on a bitter campaign
about the Berlin strike, and
Russian military officials accuse
the United States military of
having taken an open part in
provoking industrial disorder.
This charge has even been made
by the Russian deputy military
commandant in the Berlin area,
Lieutenant-General Mihail Drat-
vin.
The only attempt at compro-
mise with the strikers was a
Russian offer to pay 60 per cent,
of wages in Western marks, but
voting on this was 13,477 against
to 398 for. The result was in-
evitable. Apart from the fact
that the bulk of the workers in-
volved live in the Western zones
the relative values of Eastern
and Western marks is such that
payment in Eastern marks
scarcely represents a living-wage.
It is ironical that in the month
in which the world was con-
gratulating itself on the with-
drawal of the Berlin blockade an
all-time air-lift record was
created when, in 27,718 flights,
British and U.S. aircraft moved
250,816 tons ; but it is still
highly expensive business, costs
“Ek Dum”: The Foreign
Ministers’ talks in Paris reached
a stalemate before the week-end,
a result which surprised nobody.
The question of German unity
was discussed at length with the
usual Russian determination not
to agree to anything which
would stand in the way of a
Communist Europe.
Then Berlin became the issue
with the same result. The
Manchester “Guardian” wrote:
The Foreign Ministers made as
hopeless a start on Berlin as they did
on the question of German unity.
Russia evidently does not seek a
settlement of the German or Berlin
questions, and her purpose in demand-
ing the present session of the Foreign
Ministers’ conference has become even
more obscure than before.
The Russian Foreign Minister,
M. Vishinsky, insisted for a
start that the veto must be pro-
vided for in any new Berlin
control body, even in the day-
to-day details of administration,
a provision which would, in
effect, give Moscow control of
the whole of Berlin and make it
master of the policies and ad-
ministration of the zones of the
other allies.
Over the week-end a secret
session of the conference was
being held apparently to discuss
the United States plan for Berlin
which envisages;
(a) Free elections on the basis of
the 1946 poll for the whole of Berlin;
(b) Subsequent establishment of a
provisional Government for the capi-
tal with full powers and proper safe-
guards agreed to by the four Powers;
(c) Four-Power control of the
Council without the veto;
(d) An economy budget to cover
occupation costs on a basis mutually
agreed upon among the Powers.
Meanwhile, the Moscow Press
running to more than £A2O per
ton, though greatly reduced from
original levels.
The air-lift so far has cost
about £40,000,000.
Further complications in
Europe have developed in the
Balkans, The difficulties are in-
creasing between the U.S.S.R.
and Tito’s Government —that is,
if there is a Tito, since now an
accusation is going the rounds
behind the Iron Curtain that the
original Broz was bumped off
a long time ago and that the
present one is an impostor and
usurper.
Yugoslavia some time ago
sent a Note to Moscow alleging
that the Kremlin was directing
hostile and discriminatory propa-
ganda against Yugoslavia. To
this Moscow has replied during
the week that the charge is a
gross slander and that Yugo-
slavia deprived itself of the right
to friendly intercourse with
Russia and, through having
established an anti-democratic,
anti-Soviet and terrorist regime,
“slid into the camp of the foes
of the Soviet Union” and
allowed the Yugoslav Press to
become the vehicle for “un-
bridled abuse of the Soviet
Union.”
On the same day the United
States and Britain asked the
Soviet Union Government to
join them in assessing whether
the Governments of Rumania
and Bulgaria and Hungary were
flouting the terms of the peace
treaties and denying freedom to
their peoples. As each of those
countries is run by a Russian
Commissar —Bulgaria and Hun-
gary each by a former general
secretary of the Comintern and
Rumania by Anna Pauker —the
reply is unlikely to be enthusi-
astic acquiescence.
Everything the offending coun-
tries do is done under the orders
of Moscow, and Russia’s reply
is likely to parallel that of the
guilty parties whose answers to
the charges were delivered in
cheeky Notes rejecting the accu-
sations and accusing the Western
Powers of “interfering in their
domestic concerns.”
Military "Secrets."
“Ek Dum”: A lot of non-
sense is being written about the
interchange of atomic informa-
tion between the United States
and Britain, and it is reported
that there is a sort of hysteria
in the U.S. at the thought of
handing over the fruits of Ameri-
can genius to the effete British.
As a matter of plain fact no-
body knows much about U.S.
atom projects except, perhaps,
the several hundred persons
who have, according to Mr.
Lilienthal, been informed after
passing through some sort of
investigation by the F. 8.1.
Britons need not lose any
sleep. It is usually found when
the test comes that the British,
with their splendid laboratories
and more individual systems of
research, have little to learn
from Uncle Sam except in mass
production. In the last war
theirs was the leadership.
The Americans laughed up-
roariously at the simple British
theory that the fighter-plane was
the key to successful air war,
but the British proved right.
The Americans had still to
build a bomber as good as the
Lancaster when the war ended.
Radar was only in its infancy
in the United States when the
British had it in full practical
use. And the deadly “secret”
bomb-sights which were kept
back from the British till the
last moment turned out to be
nothing to write home about.
Also, the germ of atom re-
search was born in Britain, and
without the data which the
British scientists took across the
Atlantic there would have been
no atom project.
The British are well to the
fore in bomber and rocket re-
search.
Nothing is happening which
is in any way abnormal in re-
lationships. Those who are
making the noise have no means
of knowing exactly what is
being exchanged in the way of
information and material. And
nobody is likely to tell them.
On the day the fuss was at its
height in the Press it was an-
nounced that a mutual arrange-
ment had been come to for the
testing of long-distance rockets
between Florida and the
British-owned Bahamas —sub-
ject, of course, to Congress.


Provide for future
mm
■
ililiiili
1111*''* v ; sj
urn.
fflplll
|;f I:!
li'Siiliii
IIIIBligliliilil!
" • p ■ I
s
■
V; i
' ' r
m.
t—
— I
ms
■M
I
ii
l«
n
mu
■
■
Two 40ft. span buildings placed side
by side or 10ft, extensions in length
to an existing 30ft. span building are
two ways Armco solves the problem
of extra floor-space.
with ARMGO pre-fabricated Steel Buildings
Whether he is in primary or secondary industry, the man who
standardises on Armco pre-fabricated steel buildings never has
expansion problems,
I
Careful planning by Armco designers makes possible the addition
of any number of extra 10ft. lengths to 20ft., 30ft., and 60ft. span
♦
buildings, and extra 15ft. lengths to 40ft. span buildings. Another
solution of the “extra space” problem is supplied by combining
two or more Armco buildings of the same span erected side by side.
The erection details of Armco pre-
fabricated steel buildings are
simplified to such a degree that
unskilled labour can be used to
erect, or dismantle and re-erect on
a new site if change of location is
desired. Due to unprecedented
demand, buildings can be supplied
as framework only for forward
delivery. Prices and delivery will
be advised on application.
7
ARMCO
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
PREFABRICATE D
Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street,
319-325 Queen Street, Brisbane; C.M.L
STEEL BUILDINGS
Sydney; 422 Collins Street, Melbourne;
Building, 41 King William Street, Adelaide.
* Afi-49


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES.
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors : THOMAS At MAONEY , Chairman; F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred 8. White.
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
’Phone; B.W. 8361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney
Branches in All States.
ALL KINDS OF
k FISHING TACKLE!
bf
For river, beach and deep
sea fishermen. English and
French NYLON LINES...
hunting knives . . . smokers’
requisites. Write for new
fishing catalogue, now avail-
able.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 George St., Sydney.
Phone M 6261.
Better for School Books
They stand the rough
and tumble. They're lighter
and easier to carry.
Ask first for
SCHOOL CASES
-MAOfBV
FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
LAV/NA
17-jewelled Swiss
Masterpieces
m
with
NON-MAGNETIC ESCAPEMENT
LAV lIVA
WATCHES
.I Founded in 1852-V illeret, Suisse
LW?
RtVJtf-
BLOTCHY 1 !
> skin'
f m-arrqd by spots,
rashes and pimples is
quickly cleared by
Cutieura Ointment. It as-
sures skin health. Always
keep a tin of Cnticura Oint-
ment in the house. Good for
cuts, bruises and sores. One
i of the famous trio- Cutieura
Ointment'. Soap and
Talcum Powder. .
Mil
SMOKERS!
The British BUTTNER Pipe
with highly porous ceramic filter.
No breaking-in, bite, burn, wet
dottle or waste.
Price, 19/6, post free.
Illustrated leaflet on request.
Sole Australian Distributors:
Charles Whetton Pty. Ltd.,
156 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L.
Barrere brings to rupture sufferers an
entirely new method of control, the
result of 40 years’ practice and im-
provements, proved completely _ suc-
cessful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the
hand when placed flat upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, hold the intestine
in its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BARBEBE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 26d), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
SUNDRY SHOWS
STAGE AND CONCERT
Marjorie Lawrence is not only
a great singer; she is a great
woman, and the inspirational
effect of the struggle she has
made to keep her footing in the
world of music and increase it
was probably one of the chief
ingredients of the reception she
got at the Melbourne Town Hall
at her first concert, when,
mounted on an ingenious plat-
form, she was wheeled before a
packed house by her husband.
She looked like a Brunnhilde, and
in her final number, the famous
‘‘Plea to Wotan” from the
“Valkyrie,” she sang like one.
Her skill, her superb control and
the reserves of strength there
appeared to be behind her sing-
ing were tremendous. Even in
her most exacting Wagnerian
moment she didn’t make the
listener apprehensive that there
might be a stumble, and the fact
that she then turned to “Waltz-
ing Matilda” didn’t matter. Miss
Lawrence has the capacity to
endow anything with distinction,
and even the trumpery modern
renditions of old Irish folk-songs
had an air about them.
* * * *
It might be possible to en-
visage a pawnbroker with his
arms tied and conducting an
argument with a customer; but
it is impossible to visualise
Rafael Kubelik conducting an
orchestra without his hair. That
rebellious mane is an integral
part of his baton-wielding.
When he opened his programme
with the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra at the Town Hall last
week his thatch was at first only
slightly agitated, for the work
was Haydn’s Symphony No. 99
—four movements of polished
elegance. In Elgar’s rather aca-
demic ’Cello Concerto (John
Kennedy’s solo work was im-
pressive) his hair rose and fell
in only moderate disorder. But
with the “Sarka” from Sme-
tana s “Ma Vlast” Rafael’s mane
broke from its precarious moor-
ings as his head shook like a
jelly in a tornado, and as this
invigorating music of his fel-
low-Bohemian progressed the
conductor’s top vertebra
seemed always in imminent
danger of snapping. Good
music, this. And with the final
item, Suk’s “Praga.” Kubelik's
follicles were doing a furious
fandango. But, hair and all, this
Czech is a first-rate conductor.
Except in the Elgar he conducted
without a score —a notable feat.
* * * *
It was —strangely enough—in
a quiet backwater of a Rach-
maninoff Prelude that a note
went phut in the ancient Stein-
way which Aleksandr Hel-
mann has been forced to use in
Sydney. Luckily it was at the
end of a programme, and after
the derelict had taken a terrific
hammering in A Flat Polonaise
and the Fantasy in F —two
works in which Chopin was
particularly masculine. The
recitalist had to think furiously,
between his departure after the
last piece and his return for an
encore, to select an item which
would make no, or little, de-
mand on the dead note. He hit
it in a Chopin waltz, following
it up with Bach’s “Jesu, Joy of
Man’s Desiring,” which oblig-
ingly confines itself to the lower
and middle sections of the key-
board.
Some points from the Hel-
mann recitals: His Mozart is
something out of the box; he is
one of the few pianists success-
fully to de-vulgarise Liszt; the
clean-cut precision of his accent
off the beat in the Allegretto of
the “Moonlight”; his dazzling
technique when playing one hand
over the other, as in works by
Poulenc and Ravel; his ability
to make even the Prokofieff 7th
Sonata sound almost like music.
* * * *
“La Traviata” rounded off the
remarkably successful season of
grand opera at Melbourne
Princess. While it lacked the
superhuman perfection of the
screen version showing at the
same time in the city, it had
whips of enthusiasm, intensity
and feeling, and it was played as
a play and not as a set of con-
ventions. Linda Parker gave
her skill and experience and
a sympathetic voice to the
part of Violetta and died
of galloping consumption with
distinction. Ronald Dowd,
though inclined to shout his top
notes and looking more like a
bewildered curate than a lover,
did some rich work with the
vocal plums accorded to Alfred
Germont.
Now that the opera season has
finished, the next move in
Premier Hollway’s cultural ges-
ture to Victoria will be a
National Ballet season with a
professional ballet under the
direction of Joyce Graeme, late
of the Ballet Rambert.
* * * *
Noel Coward’s “Present
Laughter,” the show with which
Sydney Palace returned to legit,
after running for years as a film-
house, is keeping the theatre full
and highly amused. The play is
a typical Coward flippancy con-
cerning an ageing matinee idol,
his wife and his women, all of
it set with smooth, smart dia-
logue and trimmed and polished
down to the last detail. Peter
Gray, who plays the petulant,
impetuous actor, turns in a per-
formance that should be bottled
for future reference—he seems
to work as hard and carefully
as did Olivier, and, everything
considered,. the whole show is
the best all-round entertainment
Sydney has had since the Old
Vic. was here.
After Mr. Gray, the women
are the mainstay of “Present
Laughter”—few authors can set
females at each other’s throats
as effectively as can Coward.
The verbal hot coals and splin-
ters of ice which Margaret Reid,
as the actor’s wife. Daphne
Newton, as his secretary, and
Madi Hedd, as one of the
women on his extensive list, sling
at each other with vicious enjoy-
ment would put a mere male
down for the count before the
end of the first round. Miss Reid
and Miss Newton play their
roles with admirable compe-
tence ; Miss Hedd’s blonde,
beautifully-groomed seductress
seems to be a trifle exaggerated,
but certainly keeps up the tem-
perature of the play.
Artbursts.
From Colin Colahan’s show
at George’s, Melbourne, the
Felton Bequest bought the por-
trait of Bernard Shaw for which
the Victorian artist, by sheer
persistence, extracted several
sittings from the playwright. It
is the best portrait in the exhibi-
tion, showing the nonagenarian,
with his forehead blazing above
white woolly eyebrows, bent
over his next play. Price: 235
guineas.
Colahan’s exhibition consists
mainly of landscapes painted in
France and England, where the
artist has spent the last 12 years.
He has painted with his old bril-
liance some lovely places—
chateaux in Touraine, coastal
villages on the Mediterranean
and Burgundian markets. There
is movement in “Rain in the
City,” showing a London street
in war-time; wind in “Allegro
Furioso,” in which a group of
peasants are battling along a
road in Burgundy, and sunshine
in “Olive and Cypress.” “Pro-
menade a Midi” is another
sparkling subject which, how-
ever, doesn’t altogether sparkle.
* * * *
A competition in figure paint-
ing and sculpture for a travel-
ling scholarship worth £375 a
year for three years is to be held
by the N.S.W. Travelling
Scholarship committee. Applica-
tions close December 30, 1949.
Details from the secretary (Mr.
I. ‘D. Macinnis), Department of
Education, Box 33A, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy King’s Caravan. —4637.
To buy copy of Leaves of a Lipton
Log, or books giving biographical
information concerning Sir Thomas
Lipton.—4638.
To buy copy of Vegetation of South
Australia by Wood.—4644.
Words of poem “October Night”
by Norma Davis. —4643.
To get in touch with Westralian
contributors to The Bulletin. Reply
direct to R. Howie, Box 7, Mundaring
(W.A.).
To buy copy of The Animals Noah
Forgot by “Banjo” Paterson.—4642.
To buy copy of Typee by Herman
Melville. —4641.
To buy copy of The Pea Pickers by
Eve Langley.—4640.
To buy photograph of Edinburgh
Castle, suitable for framing.—4639.
Information Sought.
How can an Australian taxpayer
obtain relief from double taxation on
United Kingdom dividends received
by him ?
The taxpayer may include in his
Australian income-tax returns either
the net amount of the dividend after
United Kingdom tax has been de-
ducted and pay Australian tax on the
net amount or he may include the
gross amount of the dividend. If the
latter is adopted, a credit will be
allowed, on production of evidence
of payment of United Kingdom tax,
of the amount of the United King-
dom tax applicable to the dividend.
Such credit will be allowed only to
the extent of Australian tax applic-
able to the dividend. If taxpayer
elects the second method, he should
attach a statement to his return of
income to the effect that he desires
to “gross up” the dividend and
should include the gross amount in
his return.
* * * *
Are broadcast listeners’ licences
issued free to old-age pensioners?
No, but the Australian Broadcasting
Act provides as from August, 1942,
for the issue of licences on payment
of half the fee otherwise payable to
a pensioner who lives alone, or with
another pensioner, or with another
person or persons, if the income of
each such other person does not
exceed the maximum amount of
income and pension allowed under
Part III of the Social Services Con-
solidation Act, 1947. If the conditions
outlined apply to you, communicate
with the superintendent, Wireless
Branch, G.P.O., Sydney, who will be
pleased to give any information re-
quired.
* * * *
When did French boxer Eugene
Criqui visit Australia, and who did he
fight here ? From whom did he after-
wards win the world’s featherweight
championship, and for how long did
he hold this title?
Eugene Criqui visited Australia in
1920-21. He knocked out Vince
Blackburn (9th round). Jack Green
(4th round), Bert Spargo (18th round),
Jerry Sullivan (12th round), Sid God-
frey (10th round), Dencio Cabanello
(t.k.o., 14th round), and outpointed
Salvino Jamito (20 rounds). He won
world’s featherweight championship
when he k.o.’d Johnny Kilbane
(round 6) in New York on June 2,
1923, and lost this title to Johnny
Dundee (points, 20 rounds) in New
York on July 26, 1923.
* * * *
Is there a reliable method of propa-
gating daphne from cuttings?
Take short pieces of last year’s
wood and set them in a hot-house or
glass-frame in soil containing at least
25 per cent, of sand. If these struc-
tures are not available set the cuttings
in tins and keep them in a warm
room. Limited success has been
obtained when cuttings are set in the
open ground and covered with a
wide-mouthed bottle. Layering is a
more popular method. Bend down a
limb from the daphne tree, break or
cut slantingly where it enters the soil,
and fasten down with a hairpin or
bent piece of wire. Do not move the
set-out cuttings until they show defi-
nite new growth and are thoroughly
established—often more than six
months.
Brief Answers.
R.A.8.: Louis Becke died Feb-
ruary 18, 1913 C.R.: Calvinism
is distinguished particularly by its
dogma of Predestination. This says
that God has chosen certain souls
for salvation, others for damnation,
and that these decrees are unalterable.
For a modern statement of Calvinism
see H. Tydeman Chilvers’s Is There a
Future for Calvinism?.... J..N.: Lt.-
Gen. Sir Bernard Cyril Freyberg,
V.C., 1916; G.C.M.G., 1946; K.C.8.,
1942; C. 8., 1936; C.M.G., 1915;
D.S.O. (three bars), 1915; LL.D. (St.
Andrew’s), 1922; D.C.L. (Oxford),
1945 U.A.: The word is spelt
with an “e” H.K.J.V’: It is from
a Scottish place-name. Webster’s
defines brae as “a hillside; a slope;
a bank, as of a river valley; a hill.”
... .H.D.T.: Art dealers are unable to
give a valuation without inspection
of the pictures. Write John Young,
3c Castlereagh-street, Sydney....
R.P.C.: Consult the various N.S.W.
commercial directories at the Public
Library of N.S.W., Sydney
J.T.R.: (1) Annual subscription to
Federal “Hansard” is 45., and should
be sent to the Govt. Printer, Can-
berra, A.C.T. (2) The initials stand
for Kilovolt-ampere. (3) Write to
the Museum of Technology and Ap-
plied Science, Harris-street, Ultimo,
Sydney... .R.K.K.; Write Common-
wealth Statistician, Federal Bureau of
Census and Statistics, Canberra,
A.C.T A.T.C.: Write Port Jack-
son and Manly S.S. Cos., Circular
Quay, Sydney, and Olympic Pool,
North Sydney (N.5.W.)... .L.R.C.:
Leading Sydney jewellers have been
unable to identify the design.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the
MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be
addressed to the Editor,
C.G.: Afraid we’ve listened to too
many reminiscent landladies to feel
like immortalising one C.N.: They
met after many years, and she
thought how fat he’d grown—it’s a
bit pointless, isn’t it? V.G.W.:
Every week someone tries to break
the heart we haven’t got W.G.-L.:
Dreadful things happen in the South
Seas, don’t they? T.G.W.: The
soldier who comes home to the un-
faithful wife has to be good to better
the divorce-court reports; yours is
pretty good, but that’s about all there is
to it A.P.: The modern soldier who
dreams he meets a Roman centurion
is one of our recurring nightmares.
.... J.S.; Your nine pages of foolscap
might boil down to a paragraph....
Bellerive; Ring up the curtain:
Story too epileptic....
Dos: If it’s any comfort to you,
we turn down 20 gag-stories like
“Done In” every week S.A.: We
have done what we can to smother
“The Black Gin’s Curse”... .E.K.:
We walked out on Dolly, t 00....
V. “Old Jack’s” gone back
W. “Mine’s a Beer” has a
familiar ring E.D.: Your “three
very short stories” have no doubt
been worn down by frequent use; try
not to be so clever E.N.: Not
frightened by “Dog Menace”....
Y.H.: “Mrs. Australia” missed
L.S.: “Trapped!” has been Released!
R.E.D.; Wife gains liberty by win-
ning lottery! In these pages! Madam!
FAMDUS PlaTS OF THE PAST.
Through the changes of time
Fond memories cling. „
I recall the grand play,
“The Silver Ring.”
A stirring drama
Of wide renown
Staged at the Royal
Of Melbourne town.
“The Lights of London”
And “The Romany Rye”
Were a big success
In the years gone by.
A drama of venture,
Crime and alarms
Was the Australian
“Robbery Unler Arms.”


/A.
A
need constant care,
of morbid forms of croup beware,
Whene’er you hear the husky whoop
Pour out "the dose that does” for croup.
All tiny tots when four years old
Mature from croup to croupy cold;
But still, whatever colds befall,
Give Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure for all.
For Children’s Hacking Cough,
Woods’ Great Peppermint Core
%\*ave cJosct
.
mm
gilfi
'-r ’ &Sj£i
o^*;
o£^
ft r
5^
COMPLETE
3<
x
\
WITH 2 BLADES
IN NEAT PLASTIC
V CASE y
—the razor with the heavy
surgical steel blade that
gives double the usual
number of shaves. No
drag, no pull, just a sweet,
smooth shave.
Obtainable everywhere .
fIQIO £ OCiOCAT SMDOW Hf/TH
ALL-BRITISH
ALL'bKI I lan
ioiwou
i
%
THE POPULAR PEN
with the
MARVELLOUS NIB
Conway Stewart & Co. Ltd./
London.
S. W. RAMSAY
Melbourne and Sydney
GIVES
PERSONALITY
TO YOUR
WRITING
Sir William Perkin founded the modern
synthetic dyestuffs industry. He began his
chemical career as an assistant at the Royal College
of Chemistry, but his first great discovery was
actually made in his spare time in a rough labora-
tory at home when he was no more than eighteen.
This took place in 1856, when Perkin was trying to
prepare quinine artificially. He failed to produce
synthetic quinine, but by oxidizing crude aniline
with potassium dichromate obtained a dark solid
which turned out to be a good purple dye. It was,
in fact, “mauve,” the first of the great family of
aniline dyes. Perkin took out a patent for the
manufacturing process and, in 1857, set up a fac-
tory near Harrow. This was the beginning of the
aniline dye industry, which has since become of
key importance to the civilized world.
Born in London in 1838, Perkin was educated at
the City of London School before proceeding to
the Royal College of Chemistry. As well as dis-
covering “aniline purple, he also invented a pro-
cess for manufacturing alizarin (the red of madder
root). Achieving financial independence as a result
of his discoveries, he was able to devote his atten-
tion to pure chemical research. He was President
of the Chemical Society in 1883 and
of the Society of Chemical Industry
in 1884. He was knighted in 1906,
the jubilee of his discovery of the
first aniline dye.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
IL-79-16
Ancestors of
an Industry
SPORTING NOTIONS
your shout!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Glancing down the list of final
acceptors for the running of the 170 tn
renewal of the Derby Stakes in other
words the Derby—run at Epsom
(Eng.) on Saturday, what most im-
pressed as a reflection of changing
times was the preponderance of plain
“misters” in the list of owners rep-
resented; of 39 final acceptors, 31
were owned by commoners. Shades
of the noble gentry who fostered the
Derby through its early growth!
Quite a contrast to, say, 1789, when,
with 11 starters, the owners rep-
resented were the Prince of Wales
(two runners), the Duke of Bedford
(two runners), the Duke of St.
Alban’s, Lord Grosvenor (two run-
ners), Lord Cavendish, Lord Barry-
more, Lord Egremont and Mr. Lade.
Mr. Lade must have felt as con-
spicuous in that list as was his grey
colt Pantaloon in the field of bays
and chestnuts.
In other ways, too, the Derby
reflects changing times and ways. This
year, for the first time, the camera
was used to decide the placings. This
year the prizemoney, totalling
£17,125, was a record; in the year
of Mr. Lade’s embarrassment the
race was worth 1025 guineas. And
for people nowadays sitting in their
homes in the remotest part of the
globe to hear the result as soon as
do people on the course at
Epsom is a far cry from the days
when news of the result took anything
up to a fortnight to reach the
remoter parts of Britain alone. When
Spaniel won, in 1831, a bunch of
cavalry officers had a very nice
clean-up in Edinburgh by getting the
result per carrier-pigeon some hours
ahead of the official mail. It might
be suggested that, if officers, these
were certainly not gentlemen, but
those diddled had no complaint; for
years they had themselves been doing
the diddling with a private pony-
express system.
Of the 39 final acceptors for this
year’s Derby, 33 saddled up and 32
actually started; Ugongo became a
casualty on the way to the post.
After being near the front all the
way Nimbus won in a thrilling finish,
hard pressed by Amour Drake and
Swallow Tail; the margins were a
head and a head, and the time was
2.42.
Nimbus was a solidly-backed
second favorite at 7 to 1 ; the 9-to-2
favorite Royal Forest finished fourth,
leaving his rider, Gordon Richards,
see yet another Derby end just
tantalisingly beyond his grasp. it
was Richards’s 24th attempt _ at
winning a Derby and the mntn
occasion that his mount, has been
favorite. _ # #
Ridden by E. C. Elliott and trained
by G. Colling, Nimbus is a bay colt
by Nearco-Kong—breeding which
could scarcely inspire confidence in
the colt’s ability to win a Derby.
Nearco admittedly has sired a pre-
vious Derby-winner, and a very
brilliant one, in Dante; also a St.
Leger-winner; but most of his get
have been not much good beyond
a mile, and Kong, the dam of
Nimbus, was good for seven furlongs
at the best.
Of the 32 starters in the Derby, 15,
including the first four past the post,
were the progeny of three sires;
Nearco was represented by four run-
ners, Admiral Drake by four, and f
Bois Roussel by no fewer than seven. ,
Admiral Drake’s most successful rep- j
resentative was Amour Drake, on j
whom “Togo” Johnstone went within ;
an ace of repeating his last year’s ,
success for French owner M. L. ,
Volterra. Swallow Tail, Lord Derby’s i
entry, is a son of Bois Roussel, as .
is Royal Forest.
In winning, Nimbus had to over-
come one or two obstacles of less
tangible nature than his 31 opponents
and the gruelling Derby course. For
one thing, he had won the Two Thou-
sand Guineas, and Guineas-winners
have a rather poor record in the
Derby. Then, again, Nimbus is
owned by a-lady, and only two lady
owners had previously won the
Derby. As a final deterrent to the
superstitious, Nimbus carried No. 13
saddlecloth.
When Dante won his Derby, in
1945, this page commented; “The
success of Dante will greatly enhance
the repute of Nearco, whose stock
hitherto had not been noted for get-
ting distance.” Since then Nearco
yearlings have fetched fancy prices.
The Maharaja of Baroda paid the
fantastic sum of 28,000 guineas for
a yearling brother to Dante, and,
while this colt found the French in-
vaders too hot for him in the Derby,
he was able to win the St. Leger.
Nimbus was a 5000-guinea yearling.
Australian riders, of whom five
had mounts, missed out in the Derby,
Johnstone doing best to finish second
on Amour Drake, while W. Cook
was a close fifth on Barnes Park.
However, the lads did well enough
over the Derby meeting. On the first
day Britt won the Oaks on Musidora,
while on the second day Cook won
the main event, the Coronation Cup.
Also, living up to his nickname,
Cook won the last race on Derby
day.
* * * *
Friday night in Sydney produced a
deluge which proved too much even
for Randwick’s excellent drainage,
and the A.J.C. fixture set down for
Saturday was postponed to to-day.
Among horses likely to show up in
this week’s Randwick racing might be
mentioned Dashing Style, Coronation
Gift, Peter Blue, Prince Standard,
Blue Diamond and Furdan.
* * * *
At Caulfield on Saturday a much-
smaller-than-usual crowd suffered
bitterly wintry conditions, and results
throughout the afternoon offered cold
comfort. One favorite deadheated
" That's all you think about — fishing !”
for first; none of the others managed
even to run a place.
After beginning to think a few
weeks back that they had the game
“sewn-up,” students of Grand
National form found themselves
wandering blindly in a maze of con-
fusion after Saturday. The novice
jumper Quetzal (N. Johnson) started
at 15 to 1 for the Port Phillip
Hurdle and turned on one of those
bolter exhibitions which can make
the best of opposition look poor. At
times anything up to a dozen lengths
in front, Quetzal was still three
lengths to the good at the finish,
Fairy Fable running second and Man
o’ War third. The hot favorite £ir
Nolte, under a plaster of 11.2, had
little chance of running down the
lightly-weighted placegetters. The
Gippsland Steeple provided one pf
the best finishes of the day, David
Star (G. Godfrey), at 12 to 1, winning
by a half-head from Walladale (16
to 1). A dozen lengths further back
the 100-to-l chance Cleric was third.
The favorite, Jeyington, never looked
likely.
For the third time since the camera
has been in use on Melbourne
courses it showed a deadbeat for
first when Vantage (W. Williamson)
and Manakau (J. Gilmore) hit the
line on terms in the 12-furlongs
Springvale Handicap; the outsider
Imperious was third. Vantage was
unlucky to only tie for first; he had
been forced to cover a great deal of
extra ground, and the photo-print
showed him to have been finishing
much the faster of the two.
* * * *
“C.S.”: Paddled on to Sydney
Cricket Ground last Saturday in time
to see Sydney High beat Hurlstone
High, 6-3, in what was supposed to
be Rugby Union, but looked more
like puddling for fish in a ’Bidgee
backwater. Big event was the Maoris
v. Australia R.U. “Test,” and when
the Governor-General was rowed out
to meet the teams in the midst of a
deluge I expected the ref. to appeal
against the light. He didn’t, they
kicked off, and one thousand gallons
of water fell from the grandstand
guttering on top of myself and about
50 other football—er —enthusiasts.
Self and small son retired to pie-
stall under stand, wrung ourselves
out as best we could, ate pies and
hot dogs to get warm, and stayed
there, somewhat worried as to fate
of wife-and-mother, last seen floating
on bosom of flood along front of
stand. Made sorties in search of her;
no sign, but caught glimpses of
figures duck-diving on oval, where,
it appears, ref. had foundered and
search was being made. Figure
emerged from bottom of sea, identi-
fied as Frith, of “S.M.H.” Silently
grasped my fin and then swam away.
Roars from crowd indicated boots
sticking out of flood belonged to
Eastes, Australian player. Heard bell,
thought it was “fog-bell on a rock-
bound coast, and steered for the
open sea,” but it was end of water-
polo match in arena. Wife came from
driest, warmest part of stand, said
it was “thrilling game.” Wet, cold,
and hungry, waded to car. Car
wouldn’t go. Spent hour arguing with
car, car won. God hobe id the edd
by wud ob Blister Sheahad’s buses.
Gread gabe, footba’!
Showing much greater stamina than
“C. 5.,” our regular Rugby man
actually watched the match, and was
able to report that in conditions made
to their measure the Maoris won,
mainly through better teamwork and
superior forwards. Not even bother-
ing to give forth their war-cry, the
visitors took the field in evident
jubilation, and swept through the
Aussies 12-3, after a scoreless first
half. The Australian team had some
better individual ingredients, but the
blend was not smooth.
* * * *
Saturday’s V.F.L. games left Carl-
ton on top, Richmond and Colling-
wood next; Fitzroy pushed North
Melbourne out of fourth place. North
started well against Carlton, but, with
Henfry shining in the centre, the
Blues soon took command, and went
on to a comfortable 14.13-10.7 win;
Henfry’s centre play showed how silly
is the N.S.W. proposal to do away
with the centre man. The Fitzroy-
South Melb. game was played round
a swamp, only the wings being dry,
and ’Roy wallowed in by 14.14 to
12.7. Down at Geelong the locals
led Richmond right up to the bell,
when Poulter goaled and the Tigers
snatched victory, 11,13-10.15. Col-
lingwood, in bored fashion, booted
21.22 while the 12,000 disgusted on-
lookers fairly bullied St. Kilda into
kicking 4.12. Footscray seemed deter-
mined to win another match, but
Essendon persuaded them otherwise
in the last quarter and it was 10.12-
7.17 for the Dons; on the rain-soaked
M.C.G. Melbourne managed to wade
home by 10.17 to Hawthorn’s 10.6.
* * * ♦
Greenkeepers of local golf courses
are advised to make sure they do
keep their greens. At Warren Valley
Golf Club, Detroit (U.S.A.), recently,
some enterprising lads calmly pinched
the number-five green. As reported
by United Press, the thieves expertly
cut and rolled up 225 square feet
of expensive grass around the oup.
They left the hole.
Ram Sales in Sydney
It might have been thought that
high wool prices would have caused
more records to go, but the best price
was 2000gns. paid by Bairnkine
(Walgett) for a Haddon Rig stud.
It was the highest at a Sydney ram
auction for 20 years, but well below
the 1924 record of 3050gns. There
was a fairly wide selection on offer,
and demand was keen for anything
good. Top-quality studs sold well,
but selecteds and flocks were down
on last year’s figures. The latter
mostly go to small breeders, who may
have been bothered by several things,
including lack of labor, taxation
and rising costs. Moreover, many
small men are satisfied to pick their
ram in the paddock and buy him
there. Total penning was a hundred
or so above last year’s 1280, but
many were passed in. The 1250 sold
made a total of £117,000, compared
with £105,000 for last year’s lot.
Some studs had good averages,
though averages are no guide, since
a draft of 20 top studs will average
out higher than a draft of 20 studs
and flocks. Inter-State buying kept
the figures up.
Corriedale prices were no more
than satisfactory, there being few
three-figure sales, the Corries ob-
viously suffering from the present
popularity of all-wool sheep. Top
price was 145gns., reached twice.
Last year’s top was 310gns.
British breeds also suffered from
Merino popularity. Bidding was
quiet, and some were ignored by
buyers. A Border Leicester made
190gns., a Dorset 70gns., a Romney
20gns., a Southdown Signs., a Rye-
land lOgns. Fat-lamb breeding, for
the present, is on the drift in
N.S.W., but it will come again.


is »
vV
PA
m
c®.
ordon's
Statute SuptoMfUL
By Appointment
Cin Diitiilen
toH.M. King George VI
ffenqueray. Cordon & Co Lid
iPnccrm^a/i^dde
KUT> moJt
*JitU
SANDERS
<?S£&FILES
Correspondence. \ i
>lc e s
statements, etc., filed in the
Sanders" can be securely
bound and converted into a
perfect book of reference at
the end of each month —or
any other period.
Prices and fur-
ther information
upon application
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agtnit—
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE .
ADELAIDE
PEBTIi
c Penfold * Co- Pty, Ltd.
Norman Bros. Ply. Ltd.
• Vardon St Sons Ltd.
• Docket Book Co. (Aosl.J
cv
your wool could receive
no greater attention, for A.M.L.&F. experts are at work
in your interests at every stage—valuing, lotting and
displaying your wool to the best advantage. You are
always assured of the best possible price when the
“A.M.L.&F. man” sells
AUSTRALIAN, MERCANTILE, LAND & FINANCE COY. LTD.
4 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
AND AT MELBOURNE AND BRISBANE.
Country Branches—N.S.W.: Newcastle, Wagga, Henty, Hay, Cowra,
Scone, Moree, Garah, Wee Waa, Brewarrina. QTd: Townsville,
Charleville, St. George, Cunnamulla, Dirranbandi. Assoc. Agents:
McPhie & Co. Pty., Ltd., Toowoomba, Oakey, Dalby and Pittswortn.
INC. IN ENGLAND, 1863.
86 Years in The Service of the Man on The Land
yourwool!
A 24.42
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M sENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
SYDNEY SHEEP SHOW.
since Kirkby is on the far-flung
Moree plains, where they breed
’em big and strong, and Eshcol
at Dalton, in the upper ’Bidgee
country, high and cold.
Bullaway took the strong-
wool ram championship with a
sire worth seeing. Huge, wide
and deep, with a splendid front
and a beautiful even fleece, he
is an outstanding animal.
Hazeldean’s reserve champion,
is also ,a big, handsome sheep,
and probably lost to the cham-
pion only on length of fleece.
Yumoo, the Moree stud that
has come up from novice
classes, showed the champion
and reserve-champion ewe. It
got its results by progeny-test-
ing of both ewes and rams.
First major inter-State award
came from the extra-strongs, M,
Tliomas’s Stradbrooke stud,
from Clare (S.A.), collecting
both ram championships with
a couple of attractive sheep.
Mungadal and Rangari respec-
tively showed ewe champion
and reserve.
Where the show did advance
was in the Small Graziers’ and
Novice classes, particularly the
former. The S.G, section is
limited to owners of not more
than 3000 sheep over six months
old, and its addition to the
show schedule years ago was a
happy thought. This year’s
showing carried a strong hint
that the Sheep Show might yet
become a small man’s
and that mightn’t be a bad idea'
in view of the fact that subdi-
vision is inevitable. It might
also be a good idea in that it
would tend to keep the Sheep
Show entries numerous and
representative, a feature which
the big men, on this year’s per-
formance, don’t seem anxious
to encourage.
In both Novice and S.G.
classes the Cox Bros. (Mudgee),
D. B. Millthorpe (Jerilderie), J,
H, Reid (Berridale), N. Mc-
Donald (Bullaway), J. M.
O’Brien (Wagga) and M. D.
Tomlinson (Currabubula)
shared most of the awards be-
tween them.
Australian Breeds
“Cap Norton”: The Corrie-
dales were an even and attrac-
tive lot and kept the judges hard
at it. Prell’s Gundowringa
champion ram was a nice long
sheep with a good belly and uni-
form points, the sort to get a
fine stamp of lamb or a lamb-
mother capable of breeding
such a lamb and cutting a use-
ful comeback fleece. Carrol,
of Redbank, got the reserve
championship with another
beauty, only just shaded by the
champion on wool covering.
J. B. Macfarlane, Cudal,
Merinos
“R. Ney”: Although it was
the N.S.W. Sheepbreeders’ jubi-
lee, it got poor support from
the bigger and more famous
Merino studs, as illustrated by
the line-up for the Merino
grand championship, limited to
Merryville, Mungadal, Murling-
bung, Stradbroke, Bullaway and
Bocoble. It was a Merryville
show almost from the start, the
Yass stud shining in fine and
medium wools, winning the
Stonehaven Cup, the prize for the
most successful exhibitor, and
ram and ewe grand champion-
ships. The Hordern (Milton)
stud had the reserve ram cham-
pion.
A number of more or less
cogent reasons were given for
the comparative Merino failure,
main ones being lack of labor,
the ease with which any good
ram can be sold in the paddock
in this time of high wool prices
and fear of the Taxation Com-
missioner, though this last had
more to do with sales rather
than show. All the same, the
association merits better sup-
port from the “big” Merino
men, who, though their acres be
many and their sheep numbered
by the thousands, are “big” only
in proportion to the part they
play in the development and
advertisement of their industry.
Wool needs all the advertise-
ment it can get—as anyone at
the Sheep Show would testify
after seeing the handful of
people there, though it was held
in the heart of a city of a mil-
lion and a half, all of whom, in
the final analysis, depend on
wool for their welfare. ,
Even had there been strong
competition the Merryville
sheep would have been hard to
beat in t their respective classes.
The stud won everything in
medium wools and five of the
eight major awards in fine. The
old ram that won the fine-wool
championship is one of the best,
perfectly built and full of style.
The ewe, also from Merryville,
was a nice sheep, but a fair way
behind the ram in general
quality. Super-fines were few
in number, the rams better than
the ewes, the Merryville ram
winner being of even
quality, with a good head and
front. The reserve came from
Winbri, the McClung stud at
Gunnedah. Champion ewe,
from the J. H. Traill stud at
Bundella; was small, but deep-
bodied and full of promise.
After Merryville had done
with the rams in medium wools
Kirkby (Moree), Winbri, Tu-
winga (J. H. Traill), Eshcol and
Somerset shared the ewe awards,
the Kirkby people showing the
champion and Eshcol the re-
serve, This was interesting.
showed champion ewe, a lady
who found it hard to excel in
the very high standard of the
ewes on show. Now rising
four, she was grand champion
last year. L. F. Bennett, from
Wallendbeen, showed the re-
serve champion.
Polwarths don’t take on in
N.S.W., and the prizes all went
to one exhibitor, J. M. Gollasch,
of Milbrulong.
British Breeds Excel
“He-Ne”; British breeds were
described as, “excepting the Rye-
lands, the best ever seen at Syd-
ney Showground.” Border Lei-
cesters especially stood out, A
feature was the evenness of
almost every class and the ab-
sence of any pronounced “tail.”
As an example of this, one
8.-L. class (ewes under one
year) was the most uniform line
the judge, L. H. Beveridge,
Dubbo sheep instructor, has
ever judged, and it contained at
least seven excellent sheep. C.
Squire, Bumbaldry, Cowra, had
a most successful day, as he
won both ram and ewe cham-
pionships and the special prize
for most successful exhibitor.
The reserve ram was exhibited
by E. Hayes and Son, Lemnos
“ Jacky’s been full of ideas since the circus passed
through."
(Vic.), and the reserve ewe by
F. Gosper, Canowindra. Prac-
tically all the Borders on parade
were a credit to their breeders,
and possessed the typical ease
of carriage, gaiety, good cover-
ing and sturdy frames so long
distinguishing features of the
breed.
Champion Dorset Horn ram,
which had already won cham-
pionships in Sydney, Mel-
bourne, Adelaide and Perth,
was bred by W. J. Dawkins,
Gawler River (S.A.), and ex-
hibited by J. R. Medway and
Sons, Oolong, via Gunning.
These exhibitors have only
shown in Sydney once before.
The reserve ram was exhibited
by W. J. Dawkins, as was the
champion ewe. Reserve ewe
was shown by A. Taylor,
Cudal. The Dorsets were a
splendid lot; the young sheep
especially seemed to give the
Tasmanian judge, W. Roberts-
Thompson, much pleasure,
Southdowns were highly com-
mended by the judge, H. Haw-
kins, who said the exhibits were
a great improvement on last
year and the tops were excellent.
Champion ram was exhibited
by T. V. Brunskill, Wagga, and
was bred by J. A. Johnston, of
Palmerston North (N.Z.). He
was last year’s Sydney cham-
pion. The reserve was also
N.Z.-bred, and was exhibited by
the Newbury stud, Sutton
Forest, The judge had never
seen a better ewe than the
champion, shown by the Brun-
skills. The reserve ewe came
from the same stud.
The Romney Marsh section
was stronger fhan last year and
judged by A. Wheeler, a New
Zealander. He described the
champion ram from the Oberon
Wattle Grove stud of Hum-
phries Bros, as a “crackerjack.”
This is the first time this ram
has been shown ; the reserve was
shown by R. M. Mendham,
Blayney. A. Hordern, Bowral,
exhibited the champion ewe,
and the reserve, was exhibited
by his son, A. Hordern jnr.,
and bred at Milton Park.
Ryelands were confined to
two studs, J. R. Medway and
Sons, Oolong, • and Miss
Patricia Welsh, Patrician stud,
Orange. Patrician stud showed
the champion ram and ewe,
whilfe J. R. Medway and Sons
took both reserve distinctions.
Hope for Cotton Industry.
“Archaps”: A demonstration
in the use of a mechanical cot--
ton-picker in the Theodore dis-
trict has renewed hope for the
future success of the industry
in Queensland, provided the re-
port of the Tariff Board, which
recently visited Brisbane to in-
vestigate the economics of the
industry, is sympathetic. The
mechanical picker, which is
being operated by the Queens-
land Cotton Board, will pick
about 40001 b, of average-
growth cotton per day—equal
to the work of 20 manual
pickers. Cost to the farmer for
harvesting is Id. per pound,
compared with 24d, per pound
for hand-picking, even were the
necessary labor available.
The machine’s disabilities in-
clude (1) about a 10 per cent,
failure on the first pick ; (2) the
ground must be free of any ob-
struction, and (3) there is only
the one machine in Australia.
However, if the Tariff Board’s
recommendation regarding price*
for cotton-seed is satisfactory to
farmers these difficulties will
not be insurmountable. This
season Theodore cotton-growers
have used an American weeder
to deal with weed-growth, and
good results were achieved. This
machine has been modified to
suit Queensland conditions, and
it is also used for spraying, in
which capacity Theodore
farmers received the greatest
benefit. A. B. Field obtained
three 5001 b. bales per acre, and
Wally Wheeler, after many
trials, has produced something
better than two bales per acre
from 20 acres. Net return to
grower on present prices is
about £25 per acre for a good
average crop.
Profitable Pigs.
“D.McN.”; Two N.Z.
farmers, Montgomerie and Bell,
of Papakura (Auckland), got
from one sow 32931 b. of pig-
meat in six months. The litter
comprised 16, but one died. At
three weeks the litter’s total
weight was 252.631 b. Weaned
at eight weeks, the litter weighed
9641 b. The heaviest was 801 b.,
the lightest 521 b.; the latter re-
mained the smallest.
At 12 weeks the aggregate
weight was 14801 b., a gain in
four weeks of 5161 b., average
weight then 98.61 b., heaviest pig
1121 b. Total weight at 16 weeks
was 21011 b., average 1401 b., at
20 weeks 29271 b., average
1951 b., at 24 weeks 37671 b.,
average 2511 b. A further gain
of 2831 b. in the last two weeks
brought the total live weight at
killing to 40501 b., average
2701 b. Total dressed weight
(warm) of pig-meat was 32931 b.,
or about 2201 b. per pig.
The first week after farrow-
ing the sow was fed on well-
watered skim-milk and a small
quantity of garbage. The
second week she was fed 4gal.
of garbage, 4gal. of skim-milk,
a dessertspoon of fish-oil, lib.
of bone-flour. From then until
the litter was weaned she re-
ceived 16gal. of garbage, 4gal.
of skim-milk, a dessertspoon
of fish-oil, lib. of bone-flour,
rising to 241 b., also lib. of meat-
meal a day. Garbage was the
main food for the litter, supple-
mented with skim-milk, bone-
flour, meat-meal and, at a later
stage, crushed barley and peas,
biscuits and maize cobs.
In the second week the pigs
got Igal. of garbage, 2gal. of
skim-milk, five teaspoons of
fish-oil, 841 b. of bone-flour.
This was increased in the eighth
week to 20gal. of garbage,
lOgal. of skim-milk, 15 tea-
spoons of fish-oil, 241 b. of bone-
flour, 21b. of meat-meal. At 12
weeks the ration was 20gal. of
garbage, 16gal. of skim-milk, 15
dessertspoons of fish-oil, 31b. of
bone-flour and 41b. of meat-
meal. By the 20th week the
litter was 1 receiving 20gal. of
garbage, 50gal. of skim-milk, 20
dessertspoons of fish-oil, 51b. of
bone-flour and 71b. of meat-
meal.
In the 22nd week garbage was
reduced to lOgal. Skim-milk
was increased to 60ga1., with
741 b. of crushed barley and


St
&
%
Jam.
Established 1808 in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battlfes, including the Battle
of Waterloo, and has em-
erged from them all with
greater strength and pres-
tige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
ATIiAS BUILDINGS,
8 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
F. Y. MIERS, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER, Assistant Manager
for Australia and New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT, Manager
for Australia and New Zealand.
crt* CTTalei
FACING A PARK
The one thing yon will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and hustle. . . . The
'Wentworth faces a park . . . yet
It Is merely "round the comer"
from the centre of the city. The
room* are all you would wish
. . . the service and cuisine
excellent
lAE WENTWORTH
in
<=>p<inep
Thone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
Nu-METAL
SAVES
ENGINE
REBORE
NEW
RINGS
Just pour RE-NU Liquid NU-METAL
through plug holes. NU-METAL will re-
condition your motor while you drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles, and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL has been proved and
tested by over 100,000 users since 1934.,
many owners having used NU-METAL
three and four times in the same engine.
NU-METAL comes to you in a separ-
ate tube for each cylinder, thus eliminat-
ing guess work. Municipal Councils,
Engineers, etc., use NU-METAL. Treatment
costs for 1,4, 6, 8 cylinders. 10/6, 30/-,
37/6, 45/-. Call, write, or phone MA7250.
Mail Orders post free. C.O.D.’s plus
Postal Charges.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return NU-
METAL to treat a Cylinder Engine.
I enclose Cheque—P.N.
Or please send me illustrated Folder
describing action of NU-METAL.
Name
Address
B. 8/6/’49.
BRISTOL TRADING COMPANY
Ist Floor, Bristol House,
147 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. MA 7250.
LANE'S
TRAPS
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
cvdc
8" Jaws
Folding Springs
OBTAINABLE FROM
ALL STORES &
PASTORAL SUPPLY HOUSES
• UZ.9
dv
Famous British
ENGINES
are
NOW
AVAILABLE
at
REDUCED
PRICES
For immediate delivery contact
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY. LTD.
’PHONE: MA 6311 7-11 MARKET ST., SYDNEY
If you could fake a peep info the
FACTORIES OF
THE FUTURE-
A
jvW:-
mm
M
BSW
ill
m
-•- :
m
mm
YOU'D KNOW WHAT TO DO
WITH YOUR MONEY TO-DAY
The history of Australian Industry is one of continuous progress. Steadily, as
scientific developments take place and production technique improves, the stream
©f manufactured goods becomes better and better. Even such everyday commodities
as clothes, furniture and household equipment of all kinds will benefit. Many
present day articles will be out of date by the standards of the future.
The present shortage of manpower and
materials, the lack pf new manufacturing
equipment, and the way you spend your
money to-day—all these delay the pro-
duction of these new-type goods.
Careless spending on luxuries and ex-
travagances diverts material and man-
power from the important tasks ahead,
and creates inflationary tendencies that
only aggravate and increase the diffi-
culties caused by shortages and high
prices.
By saving your money you help yourself
three ways —you help bring nearer the
production o£ goods of new design,
higher quality and better value; you
help overcome shortages and high
prices; and you provide yourself with
substantial funds for better buying
later. Save to the limit by restricting
your expenditure to absolute essentials,
and by setting aside fixed sums each
payday.
You are vitally concerned with the
"factories of the future” —so start
saving to-day.
TO HELP REDUCE
SHORTAGES
SAVE THIS WAY
1. Buy only what you really need.
Avoid luxuries. Get full value.
2. Buy for cash always.
3. Settle your debts then pay
your way.
4. Join a National Savings Group.
5. Build up your Savings Bank
Account.
6. Invest in Commonwealth Loans.
7. Increase your life assurance.
mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmammmmamaE
Authorised by the Treasurer of the Commonwealth .
peas, 101 b. of biscuits and three
maize cobs. The garbage fell
away during the 23rd week to
sgal., skim-milk was increased
to 65ga1., with 20 dessertspoons
of fish-oil, 51b. of bone-flour,
71b. of meat-meal and the same
quantity of barley, peas, bis-
cuits and maize cobs. In the
last two* weeks garbage was not
available. The skim-milk was
raised to 70ga1., the quantities
of other food remaining the
same.
Seed-potatoes.
“Bex”: Some time ago it was
suggested in “M.0.L.” that seed-
potatoes should be used with
a lot of eyes or sprouts—a
foolish statement. In official
trials in S.A. up to 6681 b. of
potatoes have been obtained
from 11b. of seed —when each
set used was restricted to one
eye. C. B. Powell, of Claren-
don, cut the seed into 163 sets,
of which 152 grew to maturity.
Digging and weighing were con-
ducted under supervision.
It was noted that the tubers
from 14 plants in an average
row filled a sack weighing 1481 b.
—an average of approximately
lOilb. a plant. One plant pro-
duced 181 b. of potatoes, some
of which weighed 31b.
The variety was the recently-
introduced American Sebago,
which has become very popular
in the S.A. hills districts during
the last two seasons.
Tobacco.
“Mr.”: Much good leaf is
damaged by careless handling
after it comes from the kiln.
Chief cause of loss at this stage
is bulking the leaf while too
damp. Damp leaf has a limp
appearance and bruises readily.
When bulked it darkens, heats
and often becomes mouldy.
Victorian Department of Agri-
culture says that leaf may be
safely bulked down with a mois-
ture content of 10 to 12 per
cent. This degree of moistness
is indicated on squeezing the
leaf in the hand. It should
crackle but not break, and
quickly regains its original form
when released. When the mid-
rib is doubled between thumb
and forefinger it will break
about two-thirds of the way
from the tip.
Another cause of loss is care-
lessness when the leaf is being
tied into “hands” preparatory to
baling. Long and medium (or
short) leaf from the same grade
should not be mixed. The par-
cel with correctly and neatly
tied hands has a big advantage
over a lot consisting of leaves
of uneven size and length, even
if it’s all of the one grade. Fif-
teen leaves per hand is usually
sufficient with a few more for
shorts ; in any case, the diameter
of the butt should not exceed
lin. Take the tie-leaf from the
same grade leaf as the rest of
the hand, turn the right side of
the leaf out and tie as close to
the butt as possible.
Hints for the Farm.
“W. Court”: Move the chop-
ping-block or saw-buck around
from time to time, but have it
near a fruit-tree. The splinters
of wood, sawdust and other
stuff get into the ground and
slowly rot, meanwhile conserv-
ing the moisture. The trees are
always improved, look more
healthy, and bear more fruit.
“Plane Creek”: Mackay dis-
trict (N.Q.) expects a huge cane
tonnage again this year, but
many fields will probably cut
out less than last year, owing to
the prevalence of first ratoon
crops. Tonnage may be reduced
by the tendency of a lot of cane
to arrow and reach maturity.
Wallabies may reduce yields in
some areas. The district has
not done so badly as to rain,
but there have been no heavy
falls to fill the ground, and the
water problem looks like be-
coming acute again. Plane Creek
mill and the A.N.P.A. distillery
were greatly hampered in their
operations last year by water
shortage.
“Wilco”; Pay careful atten-
tion to varieties when sowing
garden seeds. You may have
heard that certain varieties are
superior to others, but the point
is that you must know whether
those varieties will be suited by
your local climatic conditions.
They may be totally unsuitable
or may demand coddling that
you cannot give.
“Rooster”: Keep marrow
seeds two or three years before
planting. Reason is that the
embryo takes that long to reach
perfection, the plant in all
probability failing to put out
female blooms. Select good
fruits for seed and allow to
ripen thoroughly on the plants.
Spread out the seed on grease-
proof paper, turning every three
or four days until quite dry.
Choose the big, plump, firm
seeds. Store them in a labelled
packet or cardboard box, in a
cool place, until required for
sowing.
“Bill C”: After digging out
a lantana clump to plant a use-
ful tree, don’t burn the rubbish
there. A big fire on new ground
destroys the bulk of the humus,
and is to be avoided except
where large-scale clearing is go-
ing on. Small amounts of dried
brush may be better used in
burning out dry trees or stumps
in the area. Some ash, of course,
may be worked into the soil.
“Cloudy”: Don’t burn autumn
leaves; make them into a com-
post heap. Kitchen refuse and
lawn clippings should be added.
Place a covering of earth on
each layer, and soot, too, if pro-
curable. The heap should be
turned every fortnight to help
decomposition, otherwise it will
become slimy through lack of
air. In two months the compost
will be ready for use. Dig it into
the soil as a fertiliser, or use it
for re-potting and striking plants.


■
fyusabe
¥
i
1
H
GUARANTEED. NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
. . . WArti
DIED of bums. Another human sacrifice to the highway. Another life
thrown caielessly away. Just a patch of loose gravel, a little too much speed
and a safe curve became a death trap. • It might have been you.
That’s the chance you take every time you ignore such obvious road hazards
as loose gravel, soft flanks on dirt roads, narrow biidges, fog, dust and rain. .
Play safe. Drive carefully at all times
DEATH IS SO PERMANENT. , /
6.0A0
m
ISSUED BY THE AUSTRALIAN ROAD SAFETY COUNCIL
(Administered by the Commonwealth Department of Transport)
aSV 30.83.59
SMOKE-OH!
PIMMS NO. I CUP
the NO. I DRINK
for wise men
‘‘For sale, gent.’s grey English suit,
36in. chest, 9ft. 7in. height, never
used.” — Suburban paper.
What, trousers too short?
4* 4* 4"
“Furnished acc. needed for busi-
ness couple. Single room and use of
stove or bed.” — Local paper.
Somewhere they can cuddle
up and keep warm.
4* 4* 4*
“If you are contemplating a visit
to the city, take my advice and don’t
stay with relatives.”—' ‘‘New Idea.”
Otherwise relations may be
strained.
4* 4* 4*
“Women should dress primarily to
fit their figures.”— Woman’s paper.
And secondly those of their
husbands’ incomes.
4* 4* 4*
“Another dope sensation.”
—Sydney ‘‘Daily Mirror.”
What! Has some Minister
been making irresponsible state-
ments again?
,4* 4* 4*
Getting your real self into a letter
is not so hard as you may think.”
— Reader’s Digest.”
The trouble begins when you
try to reach out of the envelope
and pull in the flap,
4* 4* 4*
“Film-star angered by husband.”
—Sydney ‘‘Daily Mirror.”
Perhaps he insisted on a full
three months’ marriage before
granting her a divorce.
Pastoral.
“The Reds are on the run,” say
they
Who ought to know their
habits:
“They’re on each run from
here to Hay-
Just like the ruddy rabbits.”
Brian Bureau.
*l*
‘Wanted to buy good outsize
women’s clothing.” —Suburban paper.
Big sinners’ castoffs not ac-
ceptable.
•b *f*
“These beauty hints take in every-
thing from complexions to toes.”
— Woman’s paper.
Practically the whole female
population, in fact.
*i* . *K, 4*
Plant to give evidence.
—Sydney “D.T .”
A special court will be held
beside the witness’s bed.
•b *J*
‘Katoomba, exclusive apartments,
1 minute shops, 20 bedrooms, accom.
45 lounges, dining-room.”
—Country paper.
Parlor games a specialty.
Loan Wolf.
“Australian men have a charming
protective attitude towards women,
but they still have the naive idea that
‘women are all right in their way,
but...’” —Adelaide Child psycholo-
gist Miss Mary Smith.
I’m not a new Sir Galahad,
But, like the next Australian lad,
I aim to cherish and protect
And shield from any kind of
harm
The little lass endowed with
charm
Whom I for friendship may
select.
Such sentiments are good and
fine.
But then, of course, I draw the
line
At lifelong ties, for T have
found
That girls, though nice enough
to eat
And beautiful, are not my
meat —
I couldn’t bite one for a
pound!
BERT.
Diary of a Super-diplomat
Who Tells.
Monday : Arrived at Lake
Success from Paris this morn-
ing in usual chartered luxury
airliner; in interests of economy
had limited my personal en-
tourage to 18. Spent enjoyable
six hours of journey reading and
re-reading Press cuttings of
great speech I made before the
Factual Committee of the
Special Sub-Committee of the
Steering Sub-Committee dealing
with necessity for having sextu-
plicate copies for each country
of all resolutions submitted. Not
too pleased about one editorial
comment, though—it referred to
my speech as being only .brilliant.
Press conference at airport—
only 32 papers and agencies
represented. Must get Press Re-
lations on job to ensure full
Press representation whenever I
appear. Paucity of Press photo-
graphers a most disturbing
feature. Must see Norman to-
morrow to find out if Sydney
wharfies will allow me to instruct
our delegation to yote against a
resolution sponsored by
Ukraine.
Tuesday : Very proud of fact
that I was able single-handed to
prevent outbreak of World War
111. Got word that two Nicara-
guan sailors, inflamed with
coconut milk, had thrown
paper-bag of bananas at leader
of trade mission from Santa
Cruz because he hadn’t worn
traditional cummerbund while
doing the rhumba. Outbreak of
general hostilities, which might
have involved major Powers,
imminent till I got on job. Mar-
vellous the influence I wield —
it almost frightens me at times.
Relaxed after my vital mediation
talks with an hour or two’s
browsing over cuttings, photos
and editorials on my firm and
masterly handling of the world-
shaking question as to whether
Abyssinian gufus having to
prostrate themselves in the dust
while the Emperor passes is
compatible with the Four Free-
doms guaranteed under the
Atlantic Charter.
Wednesday : Norman let me
know that in caucus “Cocky”
Calwell has been criticising my
handling of foreign affairs. As
“i hope We soon exchange our houseboat for a flat.”
if I’d take any notice of what
that goat thought, anyway!
Have just cabled Chif. expres-
sing my unbounded admiration
for Arthur’s splendid work on
migration and appreciation of
his loyal help in implementing
my foreign policy. Only hope
this contribution tb the happy-
family guff so essential for party
in crucial months ahead will be
swallowed by the mugs who put
us in. Very annoyed at
Cadogan in failing to see reason-
able attitude of U.S.S.R, on
matter of censorship of news
and restricted movements of
foreign journalists in member-
countries. Spent afternoon in-
specting collection of Press
photos of distinguished presi-
dent of U.N. General Assembly.
Thursday; Only own super-
human efforts succeeded in pre-
venting outbreak of World War
IV following biting of ear of
Third Under-Adviser to Chilean
delegation .by Fourth-Assistant
Brief-case Holder to Israeli
representative Mosche Shirtoff
because former thumbed nose
at pawnbroker’s sign at Lake
Success. Only very prompt
promise to have the dispute re-
ferred to Threats and Insults
Sub-Committee of Provisional
Disputes oSub - Committee of
Major Contentions Committee
prevented the two countries from
flying at each other’s throats
forthwith, with consequent in-
volvement of East and West on
appropriate sides. Sought diver-
sion tonight from exhausting
efforts at mediation by looking
over Press-cuttings and -photos
of my installation as president
of U.N. General Assembly,
Friday : Remarked to
Norman today of lack of dignity
for a World Figure to have to
return to his country and enter
into hurly-burly of sordid
scramble to hold own Parlia-
mentary seat, and that distin-
guished representatives abroad
doing full-time job preventing
global wars should be given un-
opposed seats. Especially un-
dignified and humiliating for one
who has accomplished so much
to have to pit himself against a
woman, particularly one who has
done nothing but get parachuted
into enemy country *and take
part in spectacular operations
like espionage and getting shot-
down airmen back to their bases.
Why, she has never even given a
wrong opinion on constitutional
law or made a hash of a refer-
endum! Can’t do much about
latest Dutch developments till
Elliott, of the Seamen’s Union,
makes up my mind. Attended
newsreel tonight which was
showing important shots of
myself making a speech.
Saturday: Off to London.
Cutting down' heavily on ex-
penses by restricting personal
entourage to 17. On journey
glanced over Press-cuttings of
my career, but began to get tired
after only seven hours. Worst
of being so modest.
BO.
Snowy-headed Boy.
“The Federal Government will pay
£lO,OOO a year if necessary to get
the right man to head the Snowy
River water and power scheme.”
A salary of such dimensions
Will of necessity attract
A host of men whose claims are
backed
By scholarship or mere preten-
sions.
But have we any man whose
theory
And practice in this sort of
thing
Are such that none can fairly
bring
Against his 'claim the slightest
query ?
Well, I shall make this bold
assertion
That we will find, strange
though it seem,
A man for whom this Snowy
scheme
Will simply be a mild diversion.
D. H. E.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Australian Shoddy
Sixteen years ago Sir Leslie Wilson
' took Australian exporters to task and
referred them to X-ray photographs of
wool - bales, which revealed combs,
cutters, tobacco-tins, wool-hooks and
two-bob pieces packed with the wool.
Since then I’ve taken particular notice
of the appearance and quality of Aus-
tralian goods all over the world. During
the war it seemed that anything went. I
shipped some pump-washers at Mel-
bourne which were like pieces of board-
ing-house pudding after one run on the
bilges. Cleaning-rags shipped at the same
place had to be sun-dried on the hatches
before use because of their putrid, fly-
blown condition.
Yet in New York I was asked to pay
75 per cent, over the American price for
an Australian woollen sweater, beauti-
fully packed in “cellophane” and bear-
ing the trade-mark of a reputable Aus-
tralian firm. The same store assured me
that I would get three times ordinary wear
out of kangaroo-hide boots.
Reputable firms have built up a good
name overseas (a Colombian gem
merchant showed me letters from Bris-
bane, Sydney and Melbourne jewellers
who were delighted with reciprocal trade),
but that name is being ruined by a few
go-getters who are cashing in on the
prestige.
Finish and packing deserve attention.
I recently handled a consignment of half-
inch carpenters’ bits with shanks so badly
forged that they would not fit the
standard chuck. Tried in a breast-drill
they went through pender (one of N.Q.’s
toughest timbers) as though it were
cheese. Nevertheless they had to be re-
turned to the maker. The quality was
there, but the lack of finish rendered them
useless.
In 1929, when a large consignment of
apples was sent from the Stanthorpe
district in an effort to capture the Singa-
pore market, a special label depicting a
bowl of apples was designed for the cases.
An earlier attempt to market fruit in
Singapore had been under the “Ibis”
brand, depicting the long-necked avian in
contemplative mood. Friend Chinee,
unable to read “Granny Smith” or
“Jonathan,” used the universal sign-
language and thought that the cases con-
tained dried ibis.
To retain the good name that reputable
exporters have established for Australian
goods we must eliminate the shoddy-
merchant, make a standard of “finish”
essential to all exports, and take a lesson
from the other side of the Pacific in the
gentle art of letting a package sell the
goods inside it. — Video (Q.).
Chestnut
Once upon a time three Scotties were
preparing for a picnic. It was agreed
that each would provide a bottle of
whisky. All the liquor was to be poured
into one flagon for safe carriage. And
each of the three substituted water for
spirits.
Today three million Australians are
looking forward to a picnic called the
Golden Age, They are preparing for the
good time coming by watering down their
contribution to the hamper, doing as
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
little as possible in as few hours as pos-
sible for the success of the holiday.
The future prosperity of the workers
concerned depends on a plentiful supply
of coal, steel, transport, houses, and a
host of sundries ranging from clothing
to tin kettles. If they all cheat by going
slow, striking, taking long holidays and
jibbing generally, they will be in the same
position as Jhe Scotties when they
broached the flagon.
Can you imagine the three Macs play-
ing the same trick on themselves twice?
Australians are doing it time after time.
They are going without heat, light and
shelter, eating stale bread, suffering from
shortages of all sorts, simply because
they are trying to take more out of the
hamper than they put into it. — Aye
(S.A.).
Shearing the Sheep
The latest rise to 2s. 3d. in the price of
men’s haircuts illustrates how indis-
criminate cost-of-living increases react
against wage-earners particularly. For
example, in meeting his 35.-a-week wage
increase, the average working barber
earns about Bs. more per day for his
employer than when haircuts were dear
at 2s.
Meanwhile, Snips himself, like the rest
of us, pays that little bit more for prac-
tically everything he buys, to the com-
plete annihilation of his extra three-bob.
Indeed, if the skyrocketing trend of the
basic wage isn’t arrested soon the con-
sequent devaluation of wages will become
such that, instead of semi-inflation, we’ll
have the real thing.
Yet, with instances of their exploita-
tion plainly before them, unionists con-
tinue-blindly to agitate for still more de-
preciating money in the pay-envelope
instead of using their strength in pressing
their allegedly sympathetic Government
into legislation to stabilise values. —
P. O. MacCabe (N.S.W.).
T.B.
Surveys by clinics in Melbourne reveal
that of more than 46,000 people X-rayed,
one in every 200 were tuberculous, while
Brisbane authorities declare that the
annual deathrate in Queensland from the
disease is 300, approximately 25 for every
100,000 population. Although those
figures are better than others obtaining
elsewhere (Britain and America, 40, and
India, 800, for every 100,000) there is
need to continue the struggle until t.b. is
a thing of the past.
It has been claimed that the Repatria-
tion Commission is five years ahead of
the civil authorities in treatment of t.b.,
so all efforts should be directed to seeing
that civil authorities make up the leeway
and put their treatment on a par with that
given to ex-servicemen.
Not only must treatment be improved,
but the public must be educated. There
is more danger of contracting t.b. from
the general public- than from an ex-
patient. You cannot be sure that the
person sitting next to you in the train or
tram or at the lunch-table isn’t tuber-
culous. And you won’t be sure until and
unless a nation-wide campaign takes place
and sufferers are compelled to receive
treatment.
All in the dangerous years of 15 to 35
must be X-rayed, as well as those who
suffer from chronic bronchitis.
Those diagnosed as tuberculous must
be paid an adequate allowance to enable
them to undergo a course of complete
rest knowing that their families will not
suffer from their forced inactivity. In
spite of all new medical treatments, all
t.b. specialists agree that nothing can take
the place of rest.
More sanatoria must be provided for
sufferers from the disease, and regular
free X-rays must be provided for their
families.
A national education campaign on
personal hygiene must be undertaken to
enable both victims and the healthy to
combat further spreading of the disease.
—Repatriate (Q.).
Water for Rice
“Rice Cocky” (B. 11/5/’49) should be
well aware that his irrigation water does
not cost him anything like “7s. 6d. to
13s. per acre-foot depending on the
amount used.” Until recently water rates
had been ss. per acre-foot from the in-
ception of rice-growing 24 years ago.
Rice is the most extravagantly wasteful
water-consumer of all crops, and in a
drought-ridden land its cultivation is not
easily justified. Many thousands of valu-
able sheep which perished in the 1943-45
drought in the Riverina might have been
saved had the water used for rice been
used for growing fodder.
About 18 months ago, in a belated
attempt to discourage water-wastage, the
Government made a timid rise in rates,
so that now the charges per unit of water
increase progressively with the amount
used. Thus the first 150 acre-feet cost
ss. per acre-foot as before, but for the
next 550 7s. is charged, and thereafter the
rise is," at the rate of Is, per acre-foot for
each Additional 100 acre-feet delivered.
That works out at an average of 6s. 6d.
per acre-foot for 700, 6s. 9d. for 800, and
so on. In the 1947-48 season, which,
according to the N. S. Wales Rice
Marketing Board, produced one of the
best crops on record, the average water
used per farm was about 650 acre-feet at
an average cost of 6s. 6d. —'even the
heaviest consumer didn’t have to pay
more than Bs. per acre-foot.
“Rice Cocky’s” contention that the
grower cannot get any rice for his own
table is bunk. Every registered grower
may have a 1401 b. bag of his own paddy-
rice polished at the local mill each season,
and few fail to exercise the right.
My point (B. 20/4/’49) was that, as the
ricefarmer pays less than 7s. on an aver-
age for water which costs the State more
than 13s. to deliver, it is obvious that the
taxpayer contributes about half the cost
of the water used. Yet the public can’t
buy a grain of the crop it so liberally sub-
sidises.—Downstream (N.S.W.).
Going Up in Smoke
It is a sad comment on Australian
economy that, while Victoria is short of
wood fuel for heating purposes, in S.A.
huge areas are being cleared for soldier-
settlement schemes and many thousands
of super.-feet of millable timber are
being set to the torch.
In western Victoria public utilities
such as hospitals are considering altering
furnaces and boilers to burn brown coal
or briquettes, black coal being out of the
question and wood fuel unobtainable.
And that in a locality near the
south-east of S.A. in which a number of
closer-settlement schemes are under way.
Even in Adelaide there is no market
for the wood that is being destroyed, that
city drawing most of its wood supplies
from the Murray Mallee. Fuel as well as
water will play a big part in Australia’s
future, and it is regrettable that thousands
of tons of good firewood is lost in S.A.
because of lack of transport or of
economic liaison with a neighboring
State. — Plain Australian (Vic.).
To the Last Drop
Having worn out a typewriter in accu-
mulating as complete a set of “Editor
Regrets” as a freelance ever sported, I
rang up the local typewriter merchant
and asked him to produce a moderately-
priced machine which would stand up
to hard wear. When he arrived I noticed
that his utility, instead of having the
usual “Q” numberplate, sported a square
placard with “Q/T—G” underneath
which was a number. Being naturally
curious, I inquired the reason.
The l.t.m. not only operates in the
city, but occasionally travels through the
back-country, injecting new life into the
Remingtons, Coronas, Royals, Olivettis,
etc. According to our “Labor” Govern-
ment, by conveying typewriters over the
country roads—towards whose upkeep he
contributes with petrol tax —he -is run-
ning in competition with the State rail-
ways, which claim a monopolistic right
to the conveyance of all goods, new or
secondhand.
So he has had to register under the
section of the Act which covers the trans-
port of goods—hence the “Q/T —G” —
and a tax is imposed for every type-
writer of part thereof he carries over a
radius exceeding 15 miles from the city
centre.
Surely the Government could wash out
a tax which is a definite imposition on
small businessmen, or at least spend some
of the money on making the roads
usable. —Oh Ah (Q.).
Bridge Toll
In Sydney recently, I had occasion to
cross the Harbor Bridge at peak hour.
I was duly caught at the toll-gate, and
fretted and fumed at the delay before I
could pay tny share of the toll on what
is actually a State highway.
Surely, as a highly-taxed motorist, I
pay enough already for bridge and road
maintenance. For instance, I pay
tax on every gallon of petrol I buy—a
tax levied for State road and bridge
works. If the Federal Government
handed more of it over for its proper
use, payment of toll on Sydney Harbor
Bridge would not be necessary.
Apart from the many man-hours lost
by long delays at the barrier, there are
the wear and tear on vehicles and the loss
of petrol through slow driving, stops and
starts, etc. Twelve months ago N.R.M.A.
tests showed that in one working day of
peak hours 966 gallons of petrol were
lost. Traffic has increased since then.
Unless the authorities can be brought
to their senses 1 and every other motorist
must pay toll, be irritated and delayed
and waste precious petrol until 1985. —
Mag (N.S.W.).
Root of the Matter
In his article on “Disabled Soldiers’
Clubs” “Ek Dum” (B. 4/5/’49) asks what
is the Government doing about it? Well,
for one thing, it is refusing to grant in-
come-tax rebates on donations to the
appeal.—A. F. (N.S.W.).
I suggest for the Liberal programme
that the Governor-General be selected by
a panel of Supreme Court Judges, their
choice to be limited to men who
have not been in politics for five
years. The first appointment should be an
Australian, the second a Canadian, the
third a New Zealander and the fourth a
Britisher. —J. R. L. (Q.).
“L.P.” (B. 4/5/’49), in discussing
whether high wages are responsible for
high prices or vice versa, gets confused
because he uses the wrong terms. To
the producer “wages” are part of the
“costs” on which prices are based. The
higher the cost, the higher the price must
be. The effect may be camouflaged by
controls, or by direct and indirect taxa-
tion, but the bill must be paid by some-
one somewhere. If “L.P.” were an em-
ployer he would know that wages are
“costed” before an estimate is quoted or
a price fixed. To reverse the process
would be to court bankruptcy. The basic
wage cannot be raised without raising the
cost of commodities and services, and
consequently the cost of living. — Rudi-
mentary (S.A.).
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 20
Across.
I—Cattish1 —Cattish qualification employing a
hairy lip. (7)
4—Wind and hail of Flaubert. (7)
B—Arid8 —Arid duck inside makes John
fishy. (4)
10 — Study the American sailor and
an evil deed in part of Africa.
(5, 5)
11— Pole before coppers overcame. (8)
13 —Broken rifles for airmen. (6)
15 —Red punt can become circum-
spect. (7)
18—Layer is in the heart of the river
relative. (7)
20— The girl and I have a letter. (7)
21 — When little pigs.begin to fly, this
is just the town to bring them
down again. (7)
23 —Confused total was ahead. (6)
25 —Project with thanks in a tropical
plant. (8)
28— Frequently relating to the table
that only requires the addition of
one nought each time. (10)
29 — Swing around when killed. (4)
30— Playwright’s earning, not only
from Command Performances. (7)
31— Pertaining to the first step of soft
music by the Rhode Island girl,
(7)
(cryptic type.)
(Solution in next issue.)
Down.
1— Crazy one takes me with magnifi-
cent cereiriony to a very obstinate
courtesan. (6, 9)
2 Pen that might be expected to
provide a hamlet? (3)
3 His Majesty is to open and reach
about blindly. (5)
4 Plum accepted by duellists. (4)
5 Conveyance upset to change the
north officer. (9)
6 An insular place in church. (5)
7 Eagles with the Menzies method
of a noted novelist. (6, 9)
9—Saves a legal point to the billiards
equipment. (7)
12—New Zealand sheep-station is no
place for a duck. (3)
14 —Pull the protege up. (4)
16 — Everlasting tail never disturbed.
(9)
17 — Have a row when upset about
it. (4)
19 —Ham lies badly for one who, in
Genesis, is at war with society. (7)
22—Girl provides information about
Beethoven’s Seventh Symphony.
(3)
24 —Miss Lamour is cuckoo. (5)
26 What to do when very sick with
dishonesty in an aeroplane. (3, 2)
27 Small change for it over New
York. (4)
29—Total. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 19.


Steel industry apprentices
built this boring mill to help keep
Australia's railways rolling.
m
m
Ik
ma
2? :
I
Learning a Trade
the Steel Industry Way
[_JKE to share the pride of these apprentices? Then learn a trade
with the steel industry. In the course of their training they have
built six of these boring mills at the Newcastle works of the
Commonwealth Steel Co., Ltd. The mills play a vital role in the
production of steel wheels and tyres for Australia’s railways.
What these apprentices.have achieved demonstrates the practical,
interesting and creative approach to apprenticeship training under
the steel industry s Staff Training Scheme—a scheme which provides
you with expert instruction on the most modern equipment. You do
the job, learning by practical experience.
You, too, can take advantage of the industry’s apprenticeship
training experience, special facilities and skilled instructors to gain
for yourself an assured, well-paid future in an expanding industry.
If you’re aged 15-18, there’s a trade for you
Blacksmith
Boilermaker *
Bricklayer
Carpenter
Coppersmith
Electrical Fitter *
* Electrical Mechanic *
Fitter and Machiner *
Fitter and Turner *
French Polisher
Motor Mechanic
Moulder
Painter
Patternmaker *
Plumber
Sheet Metal Worker
Ship’s Joiner
Shipwright
Tinsmith *
Turner *
Intermediate Certificate required; preference given to Intermediate Certificate-holders for other trades.
A Steel Industry
Apprenticeship
Means
★ Self-contained apprentice
shops for some trades, with
your own messrooms, change-
rooms. lockers and showers.
★ Refund of fees on successful
completion of your Technical
College trade course.
★ Award wages, plus good-
conduct bonuses.
★ Living allowances if you
have to board away from
home.
★ Eight hours a fortnight time-
ofF to attend lectures on full
pay.
Train for YOUR future with the
AUSTRALIAN STEEL INDUSTRY
Apply NOW to the following:
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.—Head Office: 422 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Newcastle Steel Works: Newcastle P.O. Box 196. Commonwealth Steel Co. Ltd.: Waratah, N.S.W.
Australian Iron & Steel Ltd.: P.O. Wollongong, N.S.W. Rylands Bros. (Australia) Pty. Ltd.: Newcastle P.O. Box 245.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.: Box 21, Whyalla, S.A.
