

CHRISTMAS WINE FOR BRITAIN!
Have yon friends or relatives in the United Kingdom? Here, then, is news that must
Interest yon. Just imagine them toasting you at Christmas Dinner while you toast them
in the same wine twelve thousand miles away! That’s possible through the “WINE-FOB-
BRITAIN” scheme introduced by The House of Seppelt. Through their London Office, Seppelts
will arrange for your friends in the Homeland to be supplied with Seppelt Wines before this
coming Christmas. You’ll have to act at once for Christmas will soon be here. Get details
of Seppelts “Wine-For-Britain” scheme: Write to The House of Seppelt, Box 1422 H, G.P.0.,
Adelaide, South Australia.
fgd
dfg
A
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
SERVICE
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 70—No. 3639
Wednesday, November 9, 1949
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
'TAUNTON, the ancient County town
of Somerset, stands on the River
Tone in the beautiful Vale of Taunton
Deane, famous for its apples and cider.
The towers of Taunton’s churches are a
landmark for miles around and are worthy
of the County which has specialised in
noble Perpendicular church towers.
St. Mary Magdalen’s magnificent
tower, shown in the accompanying
illustration, is a hundred and sixty-three
feet high and is crowned with elaborately
carved pinnacles. It was reconstructed
in 1858-62 and, with its spacious interior
and double aisles, is one of the finest
Perpendicular churches in England. The
nave possesses a fine oak roof which
dates from the fourteenth century and is
the oldest part of the church. Here are
commemorated famous Taunton men,
some of whom like General Rawling
attained more than local fame. It was
General Rawling who traced the upper
reaches of the Bramaputra River and
explored thousands of miles of unknown
New Guinea and Tibet,
In 1654 the great evangelist Joseph
Alleine became curate of St. Mary
Magdalen and his book “Sure Guide to
Heaven” became a best seller and has
frequently been reprinted in England and
abroad. From 1525 to 1540 Thomas
Cranmer was Archdeacon of Taunton;
he later became Archbishop of Canter-
bury and was burned to death in 1556.
Taunton’s eventful history began in
710 when a castle was established here
by Ine, King of the West Saxons. During
the Civil War the town supported the
Parliamentarians and during the fighting
two thirds of it was destroyed by fire.
The citizens endured great privations and
tragic days followed the Duke of Mon-
mouth’s rebellion of 1685 when his forces
were defeated at the Battle of Sedgemoor.
King James declared everyone who had
taken part in the Rebellion to be guilty
of high treason and, as such, liable to
the death penalty. Following this declara-
tion the ill famed “Bloody Assizes”
presided over by Judge Jeffreys were held
at Taunton where ninetyseven of its in-
habitants were sentenced to death and
nearly four hundred to transportation.
FAMOUS SOMERSET LANDMARKS ARE TAUNTON’S TOWERING SPIRES


Lki
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name •
My Address
6M. 248 AGE
The Red Page
ABIGAIL ADAMS.
Now that people all over the world are
displaying a real interest in the history
and origins of the country they all owe
so much money to, the American author
can dispense with the intensive salesman-
ship of his 1000-page historical novel and,
offering the plain facts about the men
and women who helped to make the
United States, still be sure of appreciative
readers.
Thirty years ago, who would have been
interested in a life of Abigail Adams, wife
of the first Vice-President and second
President of the United States, while there
was a life of Florence Nightingale, Lady
Mary Wortley Montagu, Emma Hamilton
—in fact, of any accomplished or well-
connected Englishwoman available?
Two wars and a swing of money-power
across the Atlantic have changed all
that; it is as though a new party had
come into power: the new Government,
with all its antecedents, becomes the
centre of social, literary, cultural and
biographical interest).
Thus Abigail Adams (Harrap), by Janet
Whitney, an English Quakeress who
married a Pennsylvanian art-master, may
well be the first of a host of biographies
that will enlighten us on America, and
to some extent take the places of such
historical romances as Toward the Morn-
ing (Heinemann) by the author of
Anthony Adverse, Hervey Allen, third of
a projected five novels which will make
when completed one novel some 2000
pages long.
In many ways this will be a good job,
too; for instead of 429-page instalments
which take two character-actors from the
west to the east of Pennsylvania in a
covered wagon in the year 1764, you have
306 pages which take Abigail Adams from
November 11, 1744, when she was born,
to October 28, 1818, when she died, during
which time she watched the battle of
Bunker Hill through a spyglass, hob-
nobbed with the French aristocracy in
France, was kissed by King George 111
when she was in London with her
husband —the first American Ambassador
to England—presided in America over
the career of her husband when he be-
came second President of the United
States, and died just six years too soon
to see her son, John Quincy Adams, made
President also.
Perhaps her origins were not so exciting
as those of Melissa, Hervey Allen’s
heroine. Melissa served her apprentice-
ship in a house of ill-fame in Ireland,
whereas Abigail Adams was the daughter
of the Reverend William Smith, and a
member, on her mother’s side, of the
well-established Boston merchant family
of Quincy.
Again, in 1764, when Melissa and her
husband Salathiel Albine were making
their interminable journey through the
plains and forts of Pennsylvania, Abigail’s
father married her well and .truly to the
young Boston lawyer John Adams,
preaching, as was his sarcastic humor,
on the text : “For John came neither eat-
ing nor drinking, and they say, He hath a
devil.”
Little enough she had, in the dry New
England atmosphere, of the mystery of
Salathiel Albine, Government agent who
had spent his youth among Indians and
was living in sin with Melissa, he having
been married to another some years
previously by the sinister Parson James
McArdle, who, with the old sneak-thief
whose hand Salathiel cut off with his
tomahawk, hovers threateningly in the
background of Mr. Allen’s book like a
property-curse which, aided with “little
did they knows” and “which was to prove
so importants,” beguiles the reader into
ploughing on and on into the night.
No ; about the most abandoned thing
Abigail Adams ever did was to write to
her husband in 1776, when he was ham-
mering out the Declaration of Independ-
ence and the treaties and codes of govern-
ment of the new nation in the congress at
Philadelphia:
By the way, in the new code of laws
which I suppose it will be necessary for
, you to make, I desire you would remember
the ladies and be more generous and favor-
able to them than your ancestors! Do not-
put such unlimited power into the hands
of the husbands. Remember, all men would
be tyrants if they could. If particular care
and attention is not paid to the ladies, we
are determined to foment a rebellion
John Adams replied;
As to your extraordinary code of laws,
I cannot but laugh! We have been told
that our struggle has loosened the bonds
of government everywhere—children and
apprentices schools and colleges....
Indians, Negroes grow insolent. But your
letter was ihe first intimation that another
tribe, more numerous and more powerful
than all the rest, were grown discontented.
Clearly Mr. Adams’s view was' that
Mrs. Adams should shine by her husband’s
reflected glory, as she had begun to do,
at first in his inherited house in the
country at Braintree, then, as his legal
business grew, in various residences at
Boston, where gradually his legal know-
ledge and interest in constitutional
problems caught him up with the grow-
ing revolt against Britain and British
taxes and the redcoats who were being
landed in increasing numbers fqr what
purpose could only be imagined.
In 1774, John Adams was called upon
to represent his province at a “Con-
tinental Congress” at Philadelphia ; and
while her husband helped organise an
American army at Philadephia, Abigail
at Braintree saw midnight parties of
American militia seizing and hiding Gov-
ernment caches of powder and weapons,
and had her pewter melted and moulded
into American bullets in her own kitchen,
and stayed at home, although many local
families fled, when a British foraging
party was repulsed from Grape Island ;
and from Penn’s Hill, through a spyglass,
saw the burning of Charlestown; and
heard the guns booming at Bunker Hill;
and in March, 1776, heard Washington’s
guns bombarding the British in Boston ;
and again from Penn’s Hill saw upwards
of 170 British ships running out of Boston
Harbor.
In 1778, John Adams, taking their eldest
son, John Quincy Adams, for the benefit
of a continental education, went to act
with Benjamin Franklin and Arthur Lee
as plenipotentiary from the United States
to the King of France, General Howe’s
fleet hovered off Boston in September,
and later a group of noble French officers
from a French fleet which sailed in to
Boston came to pay their respects to the
wife of the American Ambassador to
France; and if the simple household was
not what they might have expected, Mrs.
Adams proved quite equal to entertaining
them, and was delighted by a party which
the Count d’Estaing gave her on board
the fleet.
John Adams came home in August,
1779, but in November, 1779, Congress
packed hiln off to Europe again, this time
as Minister Plenipotentiary with powers
to negotiate treaties both of peace and of
commerce with Great Britain. This time
not only young John Quincy, but also
young Charles, accompanied him, leaving
Mrs. Adams with only her daughter,
Nabby.
In Europe, the tremendous powers
which Congress had given Adams
incurred the jealousy of Franklin and
the anger of the French statesman De
Vergennes, who saw in an American
peace with Britain the freeing of British
ships blockading American ports, and
their consequent use against France.
Adams left France and went to Holland,
to arrange a Dutch loan that would
lighten American dependence on France.
Meanwhile, Franklin and De Vergennes
cooked up a treaty, as part of a suggested
pact between France and England, to be
arranged 'by a congress of Powers at
Vienna, They sprang this on Adams,
who “refused to be a party to any agree-
ment which allowed British forces to
remain on American soil, and also de-
clined to enter into any negotiation which
treated the United States otherwise than
as an equal sovereign Power,” thus, in
Mrs. Whitney’s opinion, “saving his
country from disaster,” But the jealous
Franklin’s machinations caused Adams’s
power to be spread among a committee
of four, as member of which he signed
a peace treaty with Britain in 1782,
Although Adams was then anxious to
go home. Congress kept him in Europe
working on treaties with Jefferson and
Franklin ; so Mrs. Adams decided to join
her husband in France. And it is against
the European background that Abigail
Adams seems to come most to life.
First we see her on the little 300-ton
ship which took her and Nabby across
the Atlantic, making “a bustle among the
waiters and demanding a cleaner abode,”
not being a one to put up with “bad and
irregular meals, dirty decks and a slovenly
steward.”
In London, after thirty days at sea,
Abigail found that dress, manners and
food were on a lower standard than at
Boston:
English ladies seemed to Abigail to lack
the stylish trimness of American ladies, and
their manners were “masculine,” they
despised the softness that was so attractive
in females and went in for being
“Amazons” As to the dinners... .You
wquid not find at a gentleman’s table more
than two dishes of meat, though invited
several days beforehand. She got nothing
but “a turbot, a soup, and a roast leg of
lamb with cherry pie” at the Atkinsons’
•dinner-party ... *
John Adams came to take them through
Dover to Paris. To Abigail, the French
“heaviness” contrasted ill with the
English “alertness”; the Custojus
searches irritated her; the mansion with
eight servants at Auteuil was no easy place
to manage; but the five acres of gardens
pleased her, and the French ladies, exud-
ing the last breath of French aristocracy
before the Revolution, had the softness
and grace she missed in the English;
formal dinners to 15 or 20 persons at 50
to 60 guineas a time put a strain on their
resources, but, John Adams said, “more
is to be performed by way of negotiation
many times at one of these entertainments
than at twenty serious conversations.”
Abigail’s best friend in France was the
Marquise de Lafayette, a “product of an
old and fine aristocracy” who found in
the “New England parson’s daughter”
her own “lack of affectation, a love of the
real things of life, and that serene sim-
plicity of behavior which is the cream
of good manners.”
French servants “who would not do
any work out of what they considered
their province, even if it meant hours of
idleness,” startled Mrs. Adams; and if
the man called a frotteur, who did the
polishing “with brushes fixed to his feet,
on which he did a kind of roller-skating,
very jauntily, with arms akimbo,” sur-
prised her, the opera-ballet was an even
greater shock:
Girls clothed in the thinnest silk and
gauze, with their petticoats short, springing
two feet from the floor, poising themselves
in the air with the feet flying and as
perfectly showing their garters and drawers
as if no petticoats had been worn, was a
sight altogether new to me.
In 1785, John Adams was made first
American Ambassador at the Court of
St. James, and so one of the draughtsmen
of the Declaration of Independence went
to call upon George 111, who received
him with dignity, and later, at a Court
Circle, kissed Abigail. Queen Charlotte,
however, took a dislike to both John
Adams and his wife, who, for her part,
thoroughly detested the Court ceremonies
which kept her so many hours on her
feet, and spoke of the Queen as of an
equal, if not as one slightly inferior:
At a later day, when England was in
imminent danger of invasion by Napoleon,
Mrs. Adams, though warmly for England,
reflected that there would be one compensa-
tion in England’s disaster. It would bring
the Queen down to the dust. “Humiliation
for Charlotte is no sorrow for me. She
richly deserves her full portion”....
His term as Ambassador over, John
Adams sailed with his wife for America,
and in 1789, when Washington was
elected first President of the United States,
John Adams was elected Vice-President.
So Abigail Adams spent her time be-
tween her home at Braintree and
Congress, which met first in New Yotk,
then at Philadelphia and then at Wash-
ington. These years were chiefly re-
markable for the slippery intriguing which
the noble founders of the American nation
indulged in at one another’s expense ; it
is a story of stolen papers and double-
crossings and petty meannesses such as
that with which Mrs. Adams reproached
their former friend Jefferson in a series
of indignant letters, that noble friend of
humanity having no sooner been elected
President than he caused John Adams’s
son Quincy to be crossed off the list of
Commissioners in Bankruptcy.
Congress moved to Washington during
John Adams’s Presidency; thus Mrs.
Adams was the first President’s wife to
preside at Washington. The scene is
reminiscent of Canberra of the not-so-
distant past:
As I expected to find it a new country,
with Houses scattered over a space of ten
miles, and trees and stumps in plenty, with
a Castle of a House, so I found it....
Not one room or chamber is finished of
the whole As to roads, we shall make
them by the frequent passing before
winter
Both Jefferson and Monroe died
bankrupt through trying to keep up style
on inadequate pay, although:
When Mr. Jefferson assumed the Presi-
dency, he was to make an experiment of
' new “American” manners: no levees, no
drawing-rooms, nor order of precedence;
dinners for fourteen guests at a round
table, self-service through a hatch in the
wall, careless personal dress, down-at-heel
slippers....
But although “ladies were scarce” and
“Congressmen were forced to live in
boarding-houses and many left their wives
at home,” Mrs. Adams managed to start
her drawing-rooms, and in January, 1801,
held the first New Year’s reception in
the President’s House, guests trailing
through mud to the beautiful oval room,
foreign Ministers wearing orders, gentle-
men with powdered hair and swords,
ladies in elaborate dresses.
Wonderfully as the Adamses managed
their public life, they were not very suc-
cessful parents. John Adams took a dis-
like to young Nabby’s first suitor, and
she contracted a marriage with the volatile
Colonel William Smith. Abigail Adams
firmly broke off her son John Quincy’s
first love-affair, and his heart into the
bargain, in Mrs. Whitney’s opinion ; and
with poor Charles, they could do no
good at all. Still, John Quincy married a
very pleasant American girl in Europe,
and went on to become President of the
United States—you could hardly call
parents unsuccessful who bred a
President,
Blithe Newcomers.
Any anthology may legitimately be
designed, no doubt, to provide informa-
tion as well as to preserve immortal
works of art; and in A New Romantic
Anthology (Grey Walls Press), which has
chiefly been designed to let us know
what the youngest groups of writers in
the British Isles are up to, the most sur-
prising piece of information for many
readers will be that Scotsmen such as
Douglas Young, in the Twentieth Century,
are writing like this;
And syne I cam up til a braid ice-flume,
Spelderan doun frae ag the Wildspitz
shouther,
A frozen sea; crustit wi rigid spume,
Owredichtit whiles wi sherp and skinVlan
pouther.
These Scottish Nationalists have been
gurgling like muted bagpipes in the little
magazines for some time, but it is seldom
that they are marched forward for public
inspection: partly, perhaps, because the
public is usually a generation behind its
poets but also, in this case, because the
writers themselves are obviously marching
backwards. Some of the Scots, no
represented in this anthology, are eve
writing in the Gaelic.
Sometimes, reading the dialect poem
which both in language and politics see.
to separate from the English tradition
one has the feeling that Europe is pre
paring for a new Dark Age. There i
an alliance of motive here with some o :
the English poems in the anthology ; for
they, too, though by the different route
of a cruel and sanguinary mysticism
move back towards the primitive
“Things,” as Yeats said, “from the centre
fall apart.” The Scots themselves be
lieve, according to Maurice Lindsay, who
introduces this section, that their nation
alistic hymns will survive only if Scotland
“a neglected province of England,’
achieves separate government; and the
question is, if the central culture disin-
tegrates in this way, who except a hand-
ful of their own tribe is going to read,
them?
But these are large matters; and al
generalisations take a deal of proving.
For the present at any rate one can read
Douglas Young because an English pub-
lisher has printed him ; and it is enough
to say that some of the Scottish poems,
simply as works of art, succeed, while
others do not. Sydney Goodsir Smith,
though he has a touch of lyricism, is
merely using the dialect to conceal
banality of sentiment and imagery:
Can I forget the gifts o you,
Music thats the wine o luve,
The wund an sea-burds in your hair?
Can I forget, ma pouter-doo,
Voar an winter an hairst are you,
Sun an mune an the warld, ma dear? —
This is Bums’s “My love is like a red,
red rose” with a lot of water added. But
Douglas Young has something of
Dunbar’s raciness, and even if his
language is synthetic, he may hope, like so
many contemporary poets who work on
the margins of the great tradition, to
survive as a curiosity.
There are other Scots writing in
English, One of them, Hugh Mac-
Diarmid, whom one remembers from of
old for a lamentable metaphor about
“the eternal lightning of Lenin’s bones,”
contributes a poem which begins with the
ejaculation “Religion? Huh!” and con-
tinues with an excellent picture of
cattle: a visionary poem
made commonplace by politics. An-
other writing in English is a still older
acquaintance, Edwin Muir;
Before I touched the food
Sweetness ensnared my tongue;
Before I saw the wood
I loved each nook and bend,
The track going right and wrong;
Before I took the road
Direction ravished my soul.
Now that I can discern
It whole or almost whole,
Acceptance and gratitude
Like memories return
And stand where first they stood.
Mr, Muir, possibly to his own bewilder-
ment, appears to have been adopted by
the Nationalists as patron saint; an
elevation where, because he always did
write well, he stands more securely than
does Mr. Herbert Read, an old warrior
similarly beatified by the Apocalyptics
in the English section of A New
(Continued on inside back cover.)


“Skinner” Ratchet is of English
make, ideal for carpenters I Braces
No. 206 x lOin. sweep, 26/- each.
English Combination
Flyers are available in two
sizes. 6in., 4/3 ea.; 7in., 4/9 ea.
Stlllson Pipe Wrenches.
10in. 14in. 18in. 24in.
14/6 19/6 28/- 47/6
Stanley Breast Drills two
speed. No. 905, 3-jaw chuck, takes
straight shank drills. 4B/6
It’s dependable tools j
And for those dependable tools you can’t do better than to shop at
A
"TRUTH Mlisf ADVERTISING”
STHOKV
w
w
■
~"3
II
m
<7~,\Ur7
I? «>: *7j*
’
r siiitU
BS!
Left.
4. — Planes: English beechwood Smooth Planes,
2in. Priced at 20/9,
5. — Hatchets: Gilpin English Hunter Hatchets, 11/-
6— Swedish Hand Saws: “Sandvik” skew back-
hand Saws are 26in. x 6 or 7 points. Priced at 45/6!
7. — Hand Drills: Stanley Hand Drills with double
pinion, 3-jaw chuck to take drills 0-J, No. 803, 23/9
8. — Hammers: Gilpin Farriers Hammers. 6/6 ea.
9. — Nest of Saws: “Great Neck” has three blades,
one handle. Made in U.S.A., set is priced at 11/-
10. — Drilling Machine: “Silex” hand bench Drill-
ing Machine, 3-jaw chuck, takes straight shank drills
0-£in. £5/16/9.
jgm
mm
■ i
>
i W'
! N
! «A
i rFF
Right.
11— Chain Pipe Vyces: Armstrong chain
pipe vyces, cap. £-2in. pipe. Priced at 51/6 ea.
12. — Square: Carpenter’s Combination Square
is made in U.S.A., is 12in. Priced at 10/6 each.
13. — Cross Cut Saws: Taylor Bros. English
one man saw with lightning teeth. In sizes
3ft, at 25/3; 3ft. 6in., at 29/3; 4ft., at 32/3 each.
14. — Hacksaw Frames: Erskin pistol grip
adjustable frames, priced at 11/9 each.
15. — Oil Stones: “Queer Creek” bench Oil
Stones, size 6in. x 2in. Priced at 2/6 each.
Hr :%
fz
m
A
&
rs
¥
■ ■ • t&mw*
/5
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ TOOLS—LOWER GROUND FLOOR. PITT STREET. TELEPHONE: M 2401; BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


■■n
.
■ ■/ "■ : - . v '* ‘‘v%
, . ' ' 4 A V : y ■ .. •' >! 5. " A 4 A 4^ 4
•• ■ . ■ ■ ■■ ■ ;: . : : I
'/M j A 'A-,:
■4-< A AA
Pi P .M S /,;J
,»y ' *<■? V A *** J
* ■V'/'xJr
~ ' ■ .-.yjLi* ' ■:■’*'' ' ...-'F '
■ • _ yAA-AA;*
i ife
i
A | ■
. . . . . -
mm.
mm
I
i ' y ’
A, :..- A:' -4 ■'.. A; A- ; ' A ; ” y
' -Jp vm >; sp .?>•'' v*>’ i&A, * A- ® *A '■ ’ • « A'.
• ..-A -A . .• '••• •:.;•. • ■•'
; ” : A A A
v < v ' w
. ■ . ,;,.■ ■■: ' ■;■. >* x \ , ♦ ' * A x » v ” *♦ » y '■’
: ■ - /■:■■..,■■•...■' ■ ■> ~ *■ > - y : a* . : :f' v <* y x< s* - :< ■ y’ y* <* * ■».
y yy-' - - , ' . '
■ ' ■■ -A;A
' . ■■ ■■■ ■
.:■ • ■ ••■•- - • . • • •. •• • *** > tA' % > v < r ' .••-■• > '/ y. % * . v . V A y. C >
■ . y :
•■••;• <•••:-••• ••••- . .- • y..v. •■ v . '■'*■■■■■.. v -v. o. ‘ .•.■•• •;•
•■.•■• :.y ; ' . yy.v,:'/ -y)y -■ • ■ ■ ■ i- - ■■•;’.r";'.'- *jy.'.. r ,:y: y.- : .;y-'.V,' ' ; y <&■
yy;y - ■■ . ' * , • r >
>A:A ' v 'iyy'
: ■ ■. ■ ,<s
*, y. & ■» v»
. ,, ;i . <x\ _
■ : y ,. : ‘ ■■•■ >' ‘ 'y ' t,x ■•. ,*< > 1 » . :
'• • ■ ■ >■: : >• ; ■■-■•■ ■
..-.•y.yyyy'-- --y- - ; '- - '
..
::S- v v
i-A-
ri x : A
<■ , ■ yy- --
. ' v" 1
V ; '
'• h
A'-.
ill
.
; ' ■ • .•• \ Mm ■. ; . a
rvi
rV/
mm
MO
fH:::
O
mmmm
mrnmim
; : y •; ;. :•■<
A A
.< v. 0 • '• '
:t :y^&<-<A
*m%k. »
yy y ,y- ■■■'■ . -y ...-.y- .*?
4" y. V ’ i ' .
:■■ ■ ■ ; ■
&;y ; sy -y-y-yy
A;. ••£>*•
' a ’ v ’'' •
y;. y>y>\£ j>..
■•. ah
o
V -Z
... : .
PP#<y- y' . - ■' ■ »-■ 'y- :: '4: : :
Ay.
-y;
>. '
i> ■
■ . y;/y
■'*
p
-
1
v ■ •? '
c W? .«• yy ;:%■• .y y • f<i
y v ..
y Ife-
% •- , ' J“
' - .
■ y-/, J, y < : ..h
m
mw:.
y yyf ' .
y;-y> : : >y; : Xyfy < ■■*, ■ ' v:: :■: :.'■, :■ ■ .- y: : . ■
■;y -y ,y y-yy- vy', ;: y. -'y 5 :yy yy
'
’ ■■••' y .y- •■ •■ ••- V; : <
$0"
JA.Ax'.
, ■ ■ •. -y:
•’ ' , vi; • •• y : - <: •■'•>y’ x ;jyy
■■ ' V . < -V„ ,<*"]> y *y: <•<**■ ' v ■ *- A
.- y -'x • • : • s - •• '-• <
■;• X % .-o ■■ V ■ \s: C-y / 4 ' ' ' '
y.v : ••■
‘ ' V ~ y. N < . y '* ' ’<' N . '-i ■
y y‘ . ', y- * * ' . <'
" % \ . - - '=
: ' * ' y y. -.' ' . : y : y ' ; ■<- s •
’ v, ;y\ y.,.. % ■ • 'y. ■ y.. y; y.’’ : y.y yy ; y>;y y?|y;y;.svyy ; >
■My:


The Bulletin
Vol. 70 —No. 3639
Wednesday, November 9, 1949
“FULL EMPLOYMENT.”
“Let’s clap these around your ankles on December the tenth, and we guarantee you’ll be fully employed dragging ’em for the rest of your days."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth. *
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington. .
CHIFLEY'S HOLY WAR.
To a complimentary dinner given him by
caucus as the late Parliament expired, Mr.
Chifley portrayed himself as some sort
of a cross between Mr. Pecksniff and
Mahomet:
I should not like to think that any
opportunist gained entry to the Labor
party.
I could never think of the Labor move-
ment as being materialistic or as one that
sought to attract votes by offering material
gain to this person or that person.
I try to regard the Labor movement in
the same light as the heads of the great
religious movements regard their faith. We
are great social evangelists charged with a
very great responsibility. It is that of
doing justice to all sections of the com-
munity.
All strongly reminiscent of Mr. Pecksniffs
address to the relatives assembled at old
Mr, Chuzzlewit’s sickbed, suggesting that,
in the bequeathing of his property—as in
the electors’ casting of their votes —
Some means might be devised of induc-
ing our respected relative to dispose him-
self to listen to the promptings of nature
and not to the . . . the name of those
fabulous animals (pagan, X regret to say)
who used to sing in the water has quite
escaped me . . . Swans? No, not swans,
but very like swans . . . Oysters? No, nor
oysters, but by no means unlike oysters;
thank you, my dear sir . . . Wait 1 Sirens;
dear me, sirens, of course.”
For these elections the idea of appear-
ing as a pagan animal singing in the
water, or of seeking materialistic party
advantages, or material gain for this
person or that, any more than of “fight-
ing” doctors, destroying banks, circum-
venting courts and referendums for the
establishment of the Red Objective—these
are all anathema (so he says) to Mr. Joseph
Benedict Pecksniff. Yet, when his fancy
changes plumage in mid-flight, and his
moral indignation over the sufferings of
defenceless trade-unionists gets the better
of him, he becomes Mahomet raising the
sword of Islam in the holy war for a
“Golden Age” through the extermination
of all unbelievers, a “great social
evangelist” bent on giving free Australians
“security” under a Socialist dictatorship
ensured by complete centralised control
at Canberra of their lives and work and
the spending of their money.
Mr. Chifley’s policy speech (to be read
over the radio to the electors) will not be
heard till next week. Its theme has been
fairly well forecast by speeches from the
Government benches in the recent Budget
debate and by the “Dorothy Dix” ques-
tions of daily concoction to Ministers
during the final weeks of Parliament’s
life. It will be “Chifley’s magnificent
financial management,” “Australia’s solid
prosperity” as witnessed by wages and
national income at phenomenally inflated
levels, and, above all, the achievement of
“full employment.” The country has but
to forget all the humbug and bungling,
the bushranging essay under file illegal
Bank Grab Act, the petrol restrictions,
the blackmarkets, the bid for bureaucratic
controls, the Keane trunks case and the
New Guinea timber scandals (“never think
of the ‘Labor’ party as materialistic”) —
the country has but to forget all this, vote
“Labor” and cry like the N.Z, Diggers—
“Do it again, Alec! ” And Alec (or Ben),
the great social evangelist, will oblige.
The two chief aspirants for elevation
to Mr. Chifley’s job lost no time
in opening the ball. Mr. Calwell chose to
speak in Dr. Evatt’s State, and Dr. Evatt
in Mr. Calweli’s. Chanting some fictitious
nonsense about the “Labor” Saul raising
his thousands of election funds and the
Liberal David his ten thousands, Mr.
Calwell dismissed socialisation, ’bank-
grabbing, petrol and all other issues, and
declared for war on big business (which
two years ago he had laid out as a dead
fowl ready dressed for anybody’s dinner)
in the cause of the social evangelism which
Mr. Chifley would expound on November
15. Dr. Evatt went one better at Sand-
ringham, outside Melbourne, when he in-
voked preservation of the living standards
resulting from “full employment,” adding
thereto a distortion—disgraceful in an ex-
High Court Judge—of both an esteemed
economist’s arguments and his own Gov-
ernment’s official statistics. He declared
that “the Opposition parties advocated
a substantial degree of unemployment— a
pool of unemployed”; and as authority
for this he flagrantly misquoted the
address of Professor Hytten at the Hobart
Science congress and produced a false
comparison of employment statistics for
1939 and 1949,
On this latter point Dr. Evatt had the
figures given by the Minister for Labor
to Parliament six weeks ago: “1,730,000
employed in secondary industries in 1939,
compared with 2,430,000 this year.” Dr.
Evatt subtracted from the 1939 total
something more than the number engaged
in rural industry—given separately by Mr.
Holloway as 424,000 in 1939—and then
represented the comparative position
thus:—
In 1939, excluding rural workers, domestic
and defence workers, only 1,293,000
workers were employed in industry. Today
the figure is about 2,500,000. ■
That, from the deputy-leader of a party
disowning any “materialistic” aims and
assuming the guise of a great religious
movement, is a too-too-careless handling
of the truth.
There are, it is true, some 40 per cent,
more persons engaged in non-primary in-
dustries than there were in 1939. More
than 600,000, an increase of over 50 per
cent, in the decade, are in Govern-
ment employment. Dr. Evatt avoided
that. Apart from growth in popu-
lation, most of the other increase
represents labor drained from rural occu-
pations during the war years by easier
and better-paid jobs offering in the cities.
Again, in June, 1939, the defence services
(which Dr. Evatt also excludes) were tak-
ing up manpower for the coming war.
There were domestic servants, permanent
or casual, to be obtained in 1938-39, but
not today under Socialism, as the hard-
pressed housewife knows to her cost. Dr.
Evatt excludes this employment from the
total for the last pre-war year, and so did
Mr. Holloway in the figures Dr. Evatt
misused. Add to all this that the 40 per
„ * ™ t . , ,
Cen j more workers employed have not
prod “ ced B« at <r r ol B°° ds
.revealed in Mane Antoinette
Polla , rds iee-eream economy, and that
”S?L marned '™” en t have been
obliged to go out to work to
su PP le ““‘ *eir husbands' wages,
a nd Dr. Evatt s false comparison
l°°ks very false indeed. Mr. Casey’s
mr dnnahlp rptnrt iW« ‘i n KnrV
employment my foot?"
h-u v . . . ,
Ele Government s own original dnll-
serSflDt n fo / the regimented Common-
wealth. Professor Copland, has.previously
pointed that warning from Professor
Hytten which Dr Evatt caricatures. Pro-
fessor Co P' land told the Canberra crowd:
u “full employment” it would
be better to describe the present position
as one of employment of large numbers at
a level far below industrial capacity.
And he went on to speak of “a funda-
mental disequilibrium in the economic
system reminiscent of that which preceded
the depression.” Professor Hytten, taking
up this text, said; “We have not full em-
ployment but overfull employment,” and
he quoted Mr. Chifley’s own White Paper
of 1945—which “Labor” prefers to forget
—citing the Government’s aim as “to
maintain such a pressure of demand on
resources that there will be a shortage
of men rather than a shortage of jobs.”
That," said Hytten, is a condition of in-
herent instability, liable to collapse as
soon as Germany and Japan return to
work for international markets.
Professor Hytten went a long way with
Mr. Chifley in refusing to blame the
unions for all the slackened work or in-
creased costs. What he was concerned
about was collaboration between Gov-
ernments and private enterprise in a plan
for the utmost possible employment when
a condition admittedly unstable does
break down —a maximum of employment
which the Government could really secure
for the people when the emergency
arrived. That is the humane and reasoned
argument which this ex-High Court Judge
and ex-president of the U.N. Assembly
distorts and vilifies.
The Government has plans of its own
for public works carried out by compul-
sory direction of labor. Mr. Chifley has
already explained that only thus can “full
employment” be assured in the last resort.
The example of industrial conscription
is for all to see in Britain today, where
Chancellor Cripps Mr. Chifley’s
opposite-dumber in the other Socialist
State —announced the other day;
No one can now be guaranteed work at
his own job, or even in his own trade. To
insist upon the present pattern of employ-
ment would be to destroy the hope of
full employment.
And that is exactly where the Socialist-
planned” economy lands everybody in
the Socialised State.
Answer to Correspondent.
Mr. Chifley has spoken of a
works programme of £743 million,
in the nature of a reserve fund set
aside as a cushion to offset a de-
pression. In what form does the
Government keep this £743
million ? Shouldn’t it be compelled
to disclose the nature of these assets
to the Australian people? lam
genuinely confused over this aspect
of the national finances. Can you
tell me where the money is ?
J. S. P., Beecroft, N.S.W.
Don’t be old-fashioned, “J.S.P.’’!
Assets, indeed ! Under the Chifley
system of economics relating to this
sort of thing “reserves” are not
what you have, but what you don’t
have. The “reserve” mentioned is
more in the nature of a deficiency—
a deficiency of work that needs
doing to bring this country up to a
pre-Socialist standard of efficiency.
It is a measure of the work that has
not been done, but which should
have been done, during the Socialist
term of office. In other words, it
represents wear, tear, obsolescence
and increase-in-population demand
not provided for, and is an indica-
tion of the country’s present state
of industrial deterioration and back-
wardness. There is probably much
more than £743-million-worth of
work that needs to be done to cover
this lag, and, “works programme”
and all, the position is getting worse.
The Silence of Dean Evatt.
A remarkable (recent) phenomenon * in
Federal politics is the Great Silence which
envelops the subject of foreign affairs.
Nowadays the doctor of the tireless
tongue which has earbashed the world has
nothing to say on world problems. But
if the Opposition allows Australia’s
wandering boy to go to the polls without
having his record in External Affairs, not
to mention that of some of his colleagues,
thoroughly combed over-it will be failing
sadly. •
Dr. Evatt has always scorned the way
foreign affairs was handled by his pre-
decessors. To him they were unimagina-
tive fellows. They had no dreams beyond
the prosaic ones of keeping trade moving
and their relations with the world at large
courteous and friendly. They turned
away when they found themselves likely
to become involved in quarrelsome
meddling about concerns which were not.
their business. They didn’t buy fights, and
they didn’t suddenly exalt civil-service
clerks and university lecturers almost
overnight to the rank of Ambas-
sador. When they had occasion to send
abroad somebody to represent this country
they saw to it that he was a man repre-
sentative of it.
The Curtin-Chifley Government, under
the inspiration of Dr. Evatt, changed all
that. While allowing the defence of the
country to sink back after the war till it
was incapable of fighting off an invading
battalion without long and courteous
notice being given, they have assumed
throughout the past three years the role
of a Great Power with a mission to right
the wrongs of the world, to put those of
whom they disapprove in their places, and
to establish as many embassies and as
many embarrassing relationships as
possible.
Shouting for democracy, they have
generally been found on the side of the
barbarians. When it has been necessary
for them to defend Australia’s or Aus-
tralians’ interests they have not been
there. But they have been always ready
to buy into somebody else’s fight,
especially if they have seen an opportunity
to come in on the side of the antagonists
of some traditional friend. Thus, they
are eager supporters of the “liberation”
movements for Asiatic nations which have
“freed” countries like Burma —a Republic
which they backed and hailed as a new
democratic ally when it tore itself from
Britain under the inspiration of a gang
of Communists whose leaders had been
officers of the Japanese Army during the
war. Burma’s state of civilisation is now
such that when the Premier’s secretary
entered into holy matrimony a few days
ago he was forced to approach the altar
surrounded by tommy-gunners, and to
depart on his honeymoon in the midst
of an escort of armed jeeps.
Dr. Evatt and his friends allowed
Egypt to revert to “freedom” without tak-
ing any interest in the process, even
though the British Socialist Government
made the agreement in flat defiance of an
understanding that Australia would be
fully consulted. Canberra has shown no
concern at the frequent reports that Aus-
tralians are insulted and threatened with
violence whenever they dare to land in
that country which they twice helped to
save from potential invaders. But
when South Africa, our friendly
sister-Dominion whose integrity as
a white-managed country grows more
and more important to our safety
with the increasing range and speed of
aircraft, became involved in difficulties
with its imported Indians, the Australian
External Affairs Department plunged into
the midst of the fray which developed in
U.N.O. on the side of immigrant Indians
and in complete opposition to all its own
professed White Australian principles.
Dr. Evatt and his colleagues have been
on the wrong side, and in the wrong
fights. Dumb about the terrorisation of
Malaya by infiltrating Communist
Chinese and subversive organisations left
behind in an organised state by the
Japanese Army, except when a question
has dragged a few muttered and non-
committal platitudes out of them, they
nevertheless rushed to the rescue of the
Indonesian Japanese collaborators against
the friendly and Allied Dutch, ignoring
the murder of Australian servicemen who
ventured into Indonesian territory on
errands of mercy. That Evatt episode
seems to have cost us the permanent loss
of the friendship of the Netherlands,
which was as old as Australian nation-
hood itself, and so a very awkward loss
of trade.
The Chifley-Evatt crowd have joined in
conferences with the newly - fledged
Asiatic Powers, but they appear to be
conspicuously absent from the conference
of British interests which last week was
sitting in Singapore to consider defence
and diplomatic matters of the gravest
importance to this as well as to
other sections of the British Common-
wealth in the Pacific, It seems to be their
anxious and unremitting care to keep out
of anything which might advertise to their
brindle Allies who have formed the bulk
of Dr. Evatt’s Praetorian Guard in
U.N.O.’s assemblies and conferences that
they are part of the British Common-
wealth in anything but lip-service.
Near home, with the help of Mr.
A. A. Calwell, whose clumsy conduct has
destroyed about everything that nearly
half a century of tactful and understand-
ing administration of the White Australia
policy has. gained, we have scarcely a
real friend.
No Australian seemingly is able to
walk the streets of Singapore or Manila
with impunity. Mr. Calwell’s perform-
ance is well matched by what has
gone on in New Guinea, where,
with the help of our arch-Ambassador,
native respect for the white race has been
destroyed, and, through the establishment
of the joint administration of Papua
(which is our own soil) and the mandated
portion of the islands, a lot of countries,
some of them hostile countries, have been
granted permission to dictate our policies
and subordinate the interests of Austra-
lians and Australian development and
defence to the will of potential enemies.
Finally, without going out of the Pacific
into those regions in which the Australian
Government’s policy has so often
“changed its plumage in mid-flight,” there
remains the post-war Australian record
in Japan. There, from the beginning, it
was necessary in the interests of our own
future safety that Australia should work
in close accord with those who had
helped to defend us so effectively and
with such generosity in manpower and
material during the previous four years
of war. But the paramount considerations
in Canberra’s policy, as usual, were that
Dr. Evatt should appear to be the
dominating figure on the scene and that
the Communist unions in Australia should
not be antagonised,
Canberra was therefore to be heard
backing Russian policy rather than that
of the Western Allies. The essence of
“Labor” theory was that Japan should at
once become a democracy by virtue of
being allowed to build up a series of large
key unions on the Comintern model,
capable of being used as a Communist-
party weapon, as in Australia.
Even when two great public-service
unions in 1948 attempted to paralyse the
country and the Occupation Administra-
tion with large-scale political strikes, Com-
munist-inspired, Canberra “Labor” be-
lieved it undemocratic that anything
should be done to ban these hold-ups.
General MacArthur’s reaction to all
this was apparently so vigorous that
scarcely a word has been heard since from
Canberra on the subject of Japanese
trade-union policy. But there have been
provocative displays of hostility to the
Western Allies’ accepted policy of con-
ciliation of Japan now that the occupa-
tion has been made fully effective, and,
generally speaking, Canberra’s attitude is
one calculated to help drive Japan into
the hands of the U.S.S.R., if that is pos-
sible. Though the settlement of Japan’s
fate and orientation in world policy has
become an urgent matter in view of the
Communist conquest of most of China
and half of Korea, and of the
tempting approaches which the Reds are
making to the Japanese, there seems to be
no disposition to take part in pressing
on to a settlement. The silence of Can-
berra’s wonder boys on the subject is
almost deafening.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Exploiting the Public.
The meaning of “full employment” in the
Socialist dictionary, especially regarding
industries “nationalised” as a step towards
“full” socialisation, is neatly illustrated
in the British Socialist Government’s en-
forced retrenchment of expenditure. So
also is the Socialist “reason” for
nationalisation of industry, which Mr.
Chifley has contended to be exploitation
of the public.
For some time the fact that the
nationalised British Overseas Airways
Corporation was losing public money at
the rate of £6 million a year perturbed
the British Treasury, but all attempts to
economise left it with a personnel of
20,000 to run about 100 aircraft.
Air-transport organisations call for big
staffs these days, but not as big as all
that. When a few weeks ago the U.S.
Treasury people told Chancellor Cripps
that any American help to stave off
Socialist bankruptcy in Britain would
depend on his cutting Government ex-
penditure, things began to happen. There
was no alternative.
So they managed to reduce 8.0.A.C.’s
administrative staff by per cent.; in
one hit this represented dismissal of 14
senior executive officers drawing from
£BOO to £3500 in salary, and 1000 others
at under £BO0 —and not one of them
actually operating aircraft. Was that
“full employment” as the Socialists say,
or “overfull employment” as their critics
declare?
That sort of thing explains why
“Labor” Governments can’t reduce
taxation. The Chifley Government’s
T.A.A. hasn’t been losing quite so much
as 8.0.A.C., but it still has a hefty com-
petitor in A.N.A. to provide a compari-
son with private enterprise. One of the
Socialistic efforts in which the Canberra
crowd were beaten in the High Court
was the attempt to forbid the Govern-
ment’s competitors to use the air. To
squeeze out such competitors is still the
Socialist objective.
Mr. Chifley’s latest explanation of the
socialisation policy is that it is to be
applied when (in his opinion) any busi-
ness enterprise is “exploiting the pub-
lic.” If the same sauce goes for the
gander as for the goose, then the Liberals
would have every justification for re-
storing to private enterprise every
“nationalised” industry or service—for
instance, shipping and shipbuilding—
which exploits its privileged monopoly
as 8.0.A.C. has been doing.
One Danger for Youth.
Next week thousands of Australians sit
for the final examination of their
secondary-school period, some with ideas
of matriculating to Universities, others to
enter apprenticeships and commercial
life. Whatever their aim, they’ve reached
the end of juvenile school life and are
beginning their adult careers.
For them it is the end of an era; for
their parents the end of a period of
anxiety, sacrifice and love. Actually, of
course, the youngsters’ education is
merely beginning. All that our system
gives them is education for earning ; edu-
cation for living they have to get as
best they can.
In a multitude of ways the Australia
that lies before them is a different coun-
try from the one their fathers beheld at
the same age. But they won’t be aware
of that, for youth adapts itself to its en-
vironment and sees nothing but normalcy
in a world that is abnormal to, its elders.
Parents of Leaving candidates, looking
back 17 or 18 years to the Australia into
which these young people were born, and
reviewing the tremendous things that
have happened since, ought to realise that
they’ve weathered it themselves fairly
successfully and not entertain unreason-
able fears for the future of their boys
and girls. It is certain that the youngsters
have few fears themselves ; to them the
w'orld is just as big an oyster as it ever
was, and it is theirs to open.
It is doubtful if youth was ever offered
the opportunities Australia offers today.
There is a century of work ahead for
twice the number of people now living
here. Anyone able to see beyond the
murky cloud of politics and able to
realise that the mad materialism which
afflicts life in this country just now must
inevitably pass can see visions as in-
spiring to the youth of today as were
those which inspired previous generations.
Many dangers confront these
youngsters, some old, some new. The
great, the supreme danger of all lies in
government, and it cannot be summed up
better, as regards youth, than it was by
Archbishop Duhig, of Brisbane, the other
day;
I believe that if socialisation continues
to grow in Australia it will be the death-
knell of free enterprise, which has been
found to be the only sane mode of develop-
ing the resources of a country.
Furthermore, it will strike a deadly blow
at youthful ambition and enterprise, which
should be the most outstanding factor in
the life of Australia, so noted for its vast
natural wealth, most of which has yet to
be developed.
No true lover of this country surely
would like to see its youth mere cogs in
the socialistic wheel instead of seeing them
using the brawn and brain which God
has given them to work out their own
destiny.
The youngsters have heard and prob-
ably read much of Socialism. Let them
study the thing and see it for' what it
really is, and the Archbishop’s warning
won’t go unheeded.
Chifley's "Prosperity."
This wonderful “prosperity” of Australian
industry under his Government that
Mr. Chifley is conjuring up in his election
campaign is in distinct contrast to his
plea during the entire term of the late
Parliament that only increased production
could save the nation from economic
disaster.
The “Golden Age” which he discerned
before the 1946 elections gave way by
August of 1947 to the serious alarm
he expressed about shortage of produc-
tion. He told the industrial conference
of employees and unions in Canberra
early that month:
He was gravely concerned with the short-
ages of houses and goods and the delay in
works vital to the maintenance and develop-
ment of Australia “If we do not
take full advantage of the greatest oppor-
tunity in our history it will be because
individually Australians have failed. I
appeal to every individual to give his
best... .United in effort, as during the
war, we can attack and overcome more
speedily a situation detrimental to the
economy of the nation.”
A week later he assured the destruction
of any united effort by dividing the com-
munity over his bank-grab plans.
In December, 1947, Mr. Chifley was
anxious about the shortage of dollars.
He said in a public statement:
If only we produced more cement, timber
and steel for export we could import more
necessary capital goods.
He had already killed all hope of that by
pressing the Federal Arbitration Court
for a shorter working week. By March,
1948, he was telling the Macquarie
A.L.P. that “if Australia’s industrial pro-
duction is not greatly increased we can
anticipate economic disaster.”
He went to London in July, 1948, to
get more dollars, and from there broad-
cast to Australian workers, saying that his
own and the British Socialist Govern-
ments “are standing together” in the “fight
for economic stability Hard work
is the stern responsibility of every Aus-
tralian if we are to survive.” By
November, 1948, the governor of Mr.
Chifley’s own Commonwealth Bank told
him frankly (in the bank’s annual report)
that “full employment” and the accom-
modation of “new industries coming to
Australia” were in danger because of in-
creasing inflation from shortage of
supplies.
Every year the A.L.P. conferences have
heard much the same appeal—always
uttered in vain—from this “great leader,”
imploring the unions to raise produc-
tion in order to assure economic security.
It has never had the slightest effect, and
the ensuing consequences have been just
what every economist has warned his
Government —a steadily rising inflation
of costs. This inflation has now fully
offset those increased nominal wages of
which the Socialists boast as tangible
sign of prosperity.
In January this year Mr. Chifley again
summoned the workers “to give of their
best” if “the possibility of a recession
overseas” were not to “injure violently”
our own economic structure. The answer
from the coalminers was a coal strike
which accentuated the shortage of goods
inherited from the previous year’s strikes
and limitation of output.
Now, after three years of rationing
under peace-time scarcity of coal, gas,
electric power, petrol, steel, cement,
corrugated-iron, wire and wire-netting
and every variety of building material —
and with all these shortages today more
marked than ever —the head of a Govern-
ment whose “policy” is the prime cause
of all the deprivation talks of its “mag-
nificent record” in building up the
national prosperity!
What has really happened is that the
Australian pound-note today is worth
about half its value of 1938-39. The true
comparison of Mr. Chifley’s figures, ex-
pressed in terms of money value with
those of 1939, is to cut them by one-half.
Big Day on the Darling.
Menindie, on the Darling, now has
another notable day which will stand with
other notable days —such as the day
Burke and Wills put up at the local pub,
the day the ’96 floodwaters invaded the
bar and Tyalla Jack Wilson shot the bun-
yip, the earlier day when an excited bloke
with whiskers rushed in with the news of
the burning of the Rodney at Pooncarie,
and the day when Joe Clark, M.H.R. for
Darling, now known as Gagger Clark,
passed through the town and never said
a word.
A mile or two west of Menindie you
run into a chain of large swamps, some-
times dry and sometimes wet, dignified
on the map as lakes. The water (if any)
wanders into them from the Darling.
Seven hundred miles east of Menindie
you run into a big place called Sydney,
o Continued at foot of page 8 .)
[For election matter David Adams, Cecil
Mann, J. B. Blair and M. H. Ellis, all of 252
George-street, Sydney, are responsible.]
CLOUDS THAT COME AND GO AWAY.
“Wonder whether we'll get anything worth while out of THAT, or if it’s only a passing shower?”


mmrnm
Z* tpvUdh A
sole
J
*</•, '
•-C,
■--*
..y
V-
m
A
6880 E/R
CARRERAS LIMITED
OVER 150 YEARS' REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
full of people and politicians and pubs
and promises. After some 50 years or
so of sporadic agitation the Sydney poli-
ticians recently remembered Menindie
and the long-standing notion to block
the outlets of its lakes and hold the water
for irrigation, so as to grow tomatoes
and things for the locals and the 70-mile-
distant Broken Hill.
For it’s electioneering-time, when
members of the ruling party rush round
opening “great national schemes” and
laying foundations and generally trying
to appear full of visions and virtue.
The Federal “Labor” fellows gathered a
large party and took it up into the wild
Monaro Mountains, and the Governor-
General (no less) blew a hole in a hill
with dynamite and “launched the Snowy
River Scheme.” The echo from the Syd-
ney “Labor” fellows was the Menindie
water scheme.
Thus into Menindie came a score of
folk from Sydney, headed by the Minister
for Conservation, a gentleman aptly
named Weir. There were no hills for
Mr. Weir to blow holes in, so he com-
promised by proposing to drive a tractor
over the site. It can be assumed that
the site had been carefully surveyed to
save Mr. Weir from the embarrassment
that befell his colleagues when, having
officially turned “the first sod” of a Gov-
ernment coalmine or powerhouse or
something at Awaba, they were disturbed
by an indignant citizen who told them
it was his paddock and he’d have no coal-
mines on it. Anyhow, all was set for
the grand event, and Menindie and Mr.
Weir went to bed to await the dawn.
It came. So did the rain—a phenome-
non great enough in itself to mark the
day in history—and the tractor couldn’t
move. Was Mr. Weir dismayed? Not a
bit of it. Followed by his party and the
suitably - impressed Menindieans, he
marched boldly to a well-known build-
ing. For years it had stored the mer-
chandise brought by river steamers ; now
it housed the Menindie branch of the
Water Conservation and Irrigation Com-
mission. Mr. Weir walked to the door —
that door through which had passed the
cargoes of paddle-boats for a century—
and, reaching out a firm hand, turned the
key in the lock. The great £2 million
Menindie water scheme was launched!
And decades ahead Menindie people
can take their children to that door and
point at it and say: “Look! There’s
where they started the water scheme
we’re going to have some day.”
POLITICAL POINTS
Evatt the jurist, Evatt the historian
and Evatt the leader of the small nations
has gone into retirement for the duration
of the election campaign, leaving Evatt
the demagogue to compete with Ward,
Calwell and the rest in singing “Labor’s”
theme-song, “We Gave You Full Em-
ployment.” Evatt the logician would
surely find it hard to explain the logic of
a prophecy Evatt the politician made
at Sandringham (Vic.), that the Opposi-
tion parties, if elected, “would bring
about a lower standard of living for most
people and increased profits and interest-
rates for the section they represented.”
The Opposition can only come to power
if a majority of electors, i.e., “most
people,” vote for them on December 10.
The “section they represent” would then
comprise more than half the Australian
people.
It would be interesting to know how
Evatt the judge would treat a slice of
evidence given by Evatt the rabble-rouser
in Adelaide in support of his allegation
that one of his meetings had been packed
with hecklers. He addressed two meet-
ings on the same night and told the audi-
ence at the second that at the first “a
number of persons had been put into the
hall to try to interrupt me.” Asked to give
his authority for the charge he
replied that as soon as he had finished
his speech “14 or 15 people had immedi-
ately left the hall and got into motor-
cars, some of which had been driven,
he presumed, in the direction of another
meeting.” Justice Evatt to witness Evatt:
“What you presumed is not evidence.”
Most fatuous remark of the week; “I
have never had any trouble in getting
petrol in Sydney.” Senator Ashley was
the speaker, and no one disbelieved
him for a moment. Still, if the “Fixer”
had left his Buick in dock and done the
rounds of the Sydney garages in a car or
utility without a Commonwealth Govern-
ment numberplate he would have had
to tell a different story.
“Labor” scouts have been sending down
distress signals from Queensland, and as
a result eight Federal Ministers are
booked to tour the State before the end
of the month. Dedman started the ball
rolling by telling Brisbane that the
“Labor” party accepted the Privy Council
decision on banking and “did not believe
in doing anything unconstitutional,” and
that he did not think it would be possible
to crush the banks by savage administra-
tion of the 1945 Act. Having got this
off his chest he beat it for the south to
leave the field clear for Senator Arm-
strong and Eddie Ward, who hold a
different view on the first point, and for
Chifley, whose promise of “virile com-
petition” suggests he may not entirely
agree with Deddy on the second.
Senator Cameron, one of “Labor’s”
most habitual sufferers from foot-in-
mouth disease, has cast a little light on
what his leader means by “virile competi-
tion” between the Commonwealth Bank
and the trading banks. Said the P.M.G.
last week: “If the Federal Labor Govern-
ment is returned, the private banks will
be beaten down to acquiesce in a reason-
able policy.” He explained that the
beating into acquiescence would be ac-
complished by fair competition. What
the old boy means by fair competition is
the system whereby the Chifley Bank
forcibly borrows hundreds of millions
from the trading banks at an interest rate
well below the market rate and uses it
to compete with them for new business.
It was Cameron who, when the Bank
Grab was first mooted, rushed into print
with an eager offer to take over surplus
bank premises for use as telephone ex-
changes and post offices, at the same time
absorbing into the Postal Department “sur-
plus” bank officers. He must have been
rather bucked to read recent cables from
Prague announcing that since the Com-
munists took control 600 bank buildings
have been transferred to “other uses” and
1500 employees “directed to other work.”
Chifley, too, was probably interested in
the cable from Prague. A couple of years
ago, when the Bank-Grab debate was in
full roar, the following passage was
recorded;
Chifley; I contest a statement made by
Mr. Menzies that the only two countries
which have nationalised their banks are
Argentina and Russia.
Abbott: I showed that France had.
Chifley (to Abbott): Have you ever
heard of Czechoslovakia?
The Prague report also recorded that, in
the country which Chifley was so gratified
to be able to cite as an example, bank
credit can no longer be given for private
enterprise, but only for “Socialist pro-
duction.” Ever heard of Czechoslovakia,
Mr. Chifley?
At the Sydney meeting where he ap-
pealed for five-bob-a-nob from every
trade-unionist, Calwell maintained that
Communism, socialisation, bank-
nationalisation and petrol were “dead
issues.” If those four issues are dead
Calwell and his cobbers are going to find
their ghosts mighty hard to lay.
Two years ago Calwell crowed triumph-
antly :
Capitalism is collapsing and we are
going to take over We are fighting to
push the private banks out for good. We
are engaged in the process of plucking the
fowl. No one will be able to put the
feathers back once we have pulled them
out.
The High Court and Privy Council hav-
ing ruled that plucking is unconstitutional,
Calwell now claims, hopefully, that the
issue is dead. He knows well enough
that that is not so; Chifley’s “virile com-
petition” is obviously intended to be
some kind of moulting-mixture which will
make the feathers drop out one by one
until the fowl dies of exposure.
Whom to believe?:
Ferguson, president of N.S.W. branch of
A.L.P., welcoming Calwell to the Sydney
Trades Hall; We will not let the bankers
stop us from winning this fight. We will
not let the B.M.A. bar our way.
Calwell, at the same meeting: Bank-
nationalisation is a dead issue.
Ward (comment condensed); It ain’t.
Premier Hanlon, of Queensland,
obviously affected by the pre-election
hysteria of the Canberra Government,
has accused the Federal Opposition
leaders of “plotting to create petrol
chaos.” But with Chifley bossing impqrts
and determined to recover a lost control,
what need for a plot?
Government spokesmen, notably
“Fixer” Ashley, hinted a couple of weeks
ago that the petrol companies were with-
holding supplies until a price-rise was
granted. This brought forth last week a
protest from Shell’s acting g.-m., who
pointed out that at a meeting between
Government representatives and the
Petroleum Committee towards the end of
July the companies agreed to match any
overselling that had occurred since the
abolition of rationing by correspondingly
underselling, and that his company
held at the moment only its defence quota
and its normal working stock. He added
that his company and staff resented being
made the subject of statements “which
are either irresponsible or maliciously
designed to assist some party political
purpose.”
Menzies and Fadden printed large
advertisements in the dailies criticising
Chifley’s petrol policy and giving a defi-
nite undertaking to do their best to abolish
petrol-rationing if elected to office. The
advertisements were paid for out of party
funds. Chifley’s reply was a big advertise-
ment setting out the Government’s views
on the matter; it was “authorised by the
Prime Minister of Australia” and paid
for by the taxpayers of Australia. Why
on earth is Calwell worrying about lack
of election funds? Surely there’s plenty
more in the Commonwealth Treasury?
Still shaky on its pins and breathing
hard, the Hollway Government has sur-
vived a few more rounds, and there is no
sign that the referee will be called upon
to give a decision yet a while. Latest de-
velopment in the private war is the forma-
tion of a breakaway group in the Vic-
torian Country party —five Assembly-
men and two M.L.Cs. representing Gipps-
land electorates announced last Thursday
that, while remaining within the party, they
would vote against it if it acted against
the interests of Gippsland. Their action
was not unexpected; the revolt has been
simmering ever since the McDonald-
Dunstan party came out against certain
provisions of the Latrobe Valley De-
velopment Bill.
That ramshackle arrangement called
the International Wheat Agreement is
.under fire from Ceylon, which, as a wheat
importer, is protesting loudly at the Aus-
tralian determination to “up” wheat by
44 p.c. because of devaluation, making it
16s. a bushel instead of the LW.A. maxi-
mum of 11s. 3d, The Cingalese are so
dashed annoyed that they threaten to
cut off tea —a serious blow to our civil
service.
McGirr’s Health Minister, Kelly, is
complaining that he can’t build hospitals
because there isn’t any building material;
he sees a necessity for a “complete change
in the mental outlook of Australians
before building more hospitals is pos-
sible.” A change in the mental outlook
of a Government which rushed in with
the 40-hour week at a time when the
nation couldn’t afford it would be a great
help to begin with. And a little political
honesty would assist.
Particularly sensitive to the wheat vote
just now, Chifley ordered the oil com-
panies to “release” 20,000 gallons of the
50 million gallons “defence reserve” so
that nor’-west N.S.W. wheatgrowers
could get their grain carted to sidings.
There, apparently, it will lie indefinitely,
since the McGirr railways have an-
nounced they can’t handle it.
Strange how habit persists. Wfreat-
growers bothered about the petrol short-
age keep saying “How are we going to
cart our wheat?” It isn’t their wheat.
Every grain of it has belonged to the Can-
berra Government ever since the growers
voted for the Pollard “stabilisation”
scheme. The grower can’t even sell a
neighbor a few bags for seed without
some clerk’s permission.
When the New Zealand Opposition
protested against the order that on the
eve of the N.Z. elections on November 30
only the Labor Prime Minister would be
allowed to speak over the air, it was told
that this followed the, ordinary rules of
debate. Since when nave the rules of
debate applied to election speeches? A
significant aspect for Australians is that in
N.Z. broadcasting is a Government
monopoly—as Chifley intends television
to be here.
“Labor” election advertisements appeal
to the elector to give himself “a fair go.”
In this respect no elector can complain
that “Labor” members have not set an
excellent example. The “fair go” they
have given themselves includes a salary-
rise of £5OO a year, an assured pension of
£8 a week, and an additional income-tax
concession on contributions to their
pension fund. For good measure, by
a i most dou bling the number of Parlia-
mentary representatives they have reduced
the work required of each member,
Britain seems to be heading towards
consCrippsion of labor,
_ _ , , , ,
, S°me Queensland shires have had
tbeir allocations for road-works cut by
as . as 30 per cent. They are furious
v y it * l M aia Roads Commission, but
offender is Prime Minister Chifley,
Wl . < ?. bas diverted to other uses the £l6
million a year petrol tax, true purpose
°f which is maintenance and building of
roads.
cfron „ at , XT c w „ 01 , ntrv
wh d .. offlcja g o ® en .. some thing or
other or , ay ano ,Lr foundation-stone.
Marine aOTn° on*such'fun?
DeeeSr °lO.


WINES
PERSONAL ITEMS
Boomed into The Bulletin, Professor
Howard Stough, zoologist from Idaho
University. He could have been Uncle
Sam —stooping height; eagle nose ; pierc-
ing, brow-hung eyes. Here for six
months’ research with Sydney University,
the Prof, talked on his South American
researches (he’s just left there), and his
war-time experiences in Europe. A self-
styled “retread” from the Kaiser’s war,
in the next he served with Colonel Elliot
Roosevelt in his Photo Wing Reconnais-
sance, interpreting aerial photos of the
whole of the European theatre north of
Italy. Towards the end Stough’s speci-
ality was plotting buzz-bomb launching-
sites—there were 250 of them —and in-
terpreting what our bombers left. Born
in Illinois, he got his Ph.D. at Harvard
and has been Professor of Zoology at
Idaho since 1925. He boomed out into
George-street, enthusiastic about Aus-
tralians and their country, rapturous
about those zoological gems the platypus
and koala.
Herewith Victoria’s new Governor,
General Sir Alexander Dallas Brooks,
family man, soldier and sportsman, with
GOVERNOR BROOKS.
a penetrating steel-grey eye, a handshake
like an axeman and a smile as broad as
a battleship’s quarterdeck, where (an
officer of marines having to put in a
watch or two of sea-time before he be-
comes the corps commandant-general) it
had plenty of time to develop. The
Governor’s history has been adequately
listed since he arrived—in enlargement of
it Mcßeath records (1) that, in talking
of soldiering, he will tell you that courage
and fitness are attributes lost without
modesty, and (2) that his intimacy with
sportsmen, artists, gardeners and brick-
layers accounts in large measure for the
homely atmosphere existing at Govern-
ment House, where the sketch was drawn.
Passed on suddenly in Sydney at the
weekend (at 68), N.S.W. Chief Justice and
Lieutenant-Governor Frederick Jordan,
on whom State Attorney-General C. E.
Martin expressed the epitaph: “Many of
his judgments will remain as some of the
most lucid expositions of the law ever
written.” Appointed Chief Justice in
1934 and knighted two years later,
Jordan, C.J., hailed originally from Eng-
land (born at Marsworth), was a Sydney
High School and University product, with
B.A. and honors in languages and the
Wigram-Allen Scholarship on the road to
being admitted to the Bar in 1907. There
he specialised in Equity, became recog-
nised as one of the most brilliant lawyers
in the country, and in 1926, took silk.
His early turn for languages gave him
probably his greatest lasting pleasure
away from the courts, reading French,
Italian and German authors as readily as
English. His recreations—and indeed his
life —were generally away from the mad-
ding crowd.
Calling it a day after nearly 30-years’
membership of Adelaide University Coun-
cil, Dr. F. S. Hone. Chairman of the
’Varsity’s anti-cancer committee (which
post he will retain), he’s one of the State’s
top-ranking medicos. Few know the
University better —his B.A. is dated 1889,
and for many years he has lectured there,
first in clinical medicine, then in public
health and preventive medicine. Cancer
his particular study, he supplied the
impetus which formed, in 1928, the Uni-
versity committee to combat it.
In over 300 years the only British
writer to enjoy the distinction of election
to the French Academy had been Kipling
—his priority was broken last week by
novelist Charles Morgan, 54-year-old son
of Sir Charles Morgan, and already a
Chevalier de la Legion d’Honneur and
one-time Royal Navy man. Morgan, a
cadet in 1907, served on the China
Station, returned to fight in the Kaiser’s
war, after that joined the “Times,” and
for 13 years from 1926 was its principal
dramatic critic. Owning to M.A. and
B.A. from Oxford, he is distinguished
both in style and intellect; Portrait in
a Mirror, Sparkenbroke and The Fountain
are memorable pieces of writing—the
first won him the Femina-Vie Heureuse
Prize in 1930, and the last the Hawthorn-
den Prize three years later. His output,
including essays and a play, is not
abundant, but what there is of it has been
accepted as classical. His latest book,
The River Line, hit Australian bookstalls
last month.
“Trinco” farewells a dynamo:
Edward Reilly Stettinius, rated one of the
best-looking Secretaries of State America ever
had and the youngest since George Washing-
ton’s Edmund Randolph, had also an ample
share of the business virility of his country,
climbing to the top in two of its most fiercely-
competitive fields —vice-president of General
Motors at 31, and, at 38, chairman of the
vast empire of U.S. Steel. At 24 Stettinius,
just out of Virginia University, was working
hard as a storeroom attendant in General
Motors. Two years later the vice-president
appointed him his special assistant, and
Stettinius, who had learned much about the
lot of his workmates, put through a group-
insurance plan for the company’s quarter-of-a-
million employees, a policy amounting to
$450,000,000. This, added to other much-
appreciated reforms, swept him into the vice-
presidency, in charge of industrial and public
relations. His chairmanship of U.S. Steel made
big U.S. news; then Roosevelt picked him for
lend-lease administrator, charged with giving
away some $ 15,000,000,000-worth of goods. In
his next job, Under-Secretary of State, he
worked well with Cordell Hull, who, in Novem-
ber, 1944, confidently handed the whole burden
over to him; Stettinius laying it down to erect
the cornerstone of U.N.O. at San Francisco
in 1945. He died at Greenwich, Connecticut,
at 49.
Civilians, perhaps, don’t win naval
actions, but one who for the past 27
years has given our naval officers their
grounding in navigation and the mathe-
matics of that exact science, gunnery,
certainly rates some of the kudos for
the R.A.N.’s effort in World War 11. H.
D. Simpson, who retires from the direc-
torship of studies at Flinders Naval
College, joined the professorial staff of
the college, then at Jervis Bay, in 1923.
Since then every Australian snotty has
passed through his hands, on to their
appointments in ships of the Fleet, many
of them to their last appointment in the
Mediterranean, the Java Sea and battle-
fields of the Pacific. A few weeks ago
Simpson attended his last naval occasion
—the passing-out parade of cadets at
Flinders.
The Last Post sounded in the same
hospital twice within a few hours for two
Old Diggers of Perth —Lt.-Col. A. C.
Olden and Lt.-Col. A. H. Sweetapple,
both of the old 10th L.H. Regiment.
Olden went ashore at Gallip. a subaltern,
left there a major, and ended as the
regiment’s C.O. For the past 20 years he
had been a member of the W.A. execu-
tive of the R.S.L. Sweetapple was the
lOth’s orderly-room sergeant when he
landed, won his commission in the field,
and his majority in Palestine. With post-
war promotion to It.-colonel came com-
mand of the regiment’s militia unit, which
he retained till the early part of World
War 11. He was, as well, secretary of
the Midland Railway Co.
A novel by Gavin S. Casey has been
accepted for publication in England by
Peter Davies, Ltd. Title is City of Men.
Casey, whom The Bulletin asked for
details about the novel, says of it:
“Very large and more than somewhat
awkwiard, but written about 12 years
ago with a good deal of enthusiasm and
rewritten twice. After lack of success of
the first version various bits were
dragged out of it and made into short
stories w’fiich were published by The
Bulletin —‘The Pioneers’ and ‘After
Church’ are ones I can think of. Date
of publication; Not likely before the
English autumn of 1950, according to
Nicholas Davies.”
The founder of the Nobel Peace Prize
invented dynamite ; there is an equally
ironic touch about the Nobel Prize award
to Dr. Hideki Yakawa, a native of that
land where the theories of atomic fission
were put into violent practice—the award
generally for his contributions to atomic
physics, specifically for his theories on
the meson, the force which binds together
that which over Hiroshima was burst
asunder. Now at Columbia University,
where he’s been Professor of Theoretical
Physics for the past 13 months, Yakawa
was 28 when he predicted the meson’s
existence by mathematics. His predic-
tion was proved physically a few years
later.
Back in Melbourne on his fourth visit,
Ivan Menzies, Gilbert and Sullivan
comedian, Oxford Groupite and the only
person to open a Melbourne art show
with a song and dance. The song was a
ditty of his own composition full of the
abstractions of the Oxford Group school;
the dance was familiar to anyone who
had seen the dancer as the Duke of Plaza
Toro ; the place was the Athenaeum.
A benign and genial companion while
“idling in green places” or while enter-
taining at the Royal Caledonian or Savage
Clubs, Alec Chisholm, shown here in a
somewhat challenging mood by Heth, can
be a lively and merciless opponent in a
literary controversy. Journalist, natural-
ist, and at present editing a new edition
of The Australian Encyclopaedia for
Angus and Robertson, Chisholm has
packed a lot of work into his 60 years.
In the newspaper field he edited Mel-
bourne “Argus” and “Australasian” and
Sydney “Sunday Pictorial,” also the “Vic-
torian Naturalist,” “Queensland Natural-
ist,” “Emu” and other specialist journals
for nature-lovers. His 1947 edition of
Who Who’s in Australia, which contains
about 7000 thumbnail biographies, was
a fine performance. Chisholm has about
BIRDS AND BOOKS.
a dozen books to his credit, mostly deal-
ing with bird life, but he has also proved
himself a capable historian and a dis-
criminating literary critic. His The Mak-
ing of a Sentimental Bloke is a little
classic, and he popularised E. J. Banfield.
Chisholm holds honors from the British,
American and Australian Ornithologists’
Unions and received the Australian
Natural History Medallion in 1940.
Here presented, Captain D. M. Stuarf,
D.S.C., who this week laid liner Hima-
laya’s 28,000 brand-new tons alongside
in Sydney. The liner’s first trip will
be Captain Stuart’s last —he retires
after 40-odd years, having joined the
P. & O. company as fifth-officer in 1909.
He landed command of the Strathaird
the year World War II broke out, leaving
her for the armed merchant-cruiser
HIMALAYA SERANG.
Cathay, which he had when, on Armistice
Day, 1942, she was bombed to the bottom
in the North Africa landings. His part
during the sinking brought him D.S.C.
He was picked up by another merchant-
man, which went the way of the Cathay
12 hours later. Next ship was A.M.C.
Ranchi. He took her vulnerable
bulk and old six-inchers into the
Mediterranean hot-spot in 1943. Here,
in convoy off Benghazi, a Nazi
bomb whizzed straight down a hatch. It
struck a steel-wire rope, deflected and
punched through the ship’s side into
the sea without exploding—a lucky
chance for the 1000 men the ship carried.
In the last five years Captain Stuart has
had three commands —Canton, Strath-
more and Strathaird —and while in the
last-named was promoted commodore
of the P. &O. fleet. He waited to wear
his commodore’s flag till he sailed into
Port Swettenham, 20 miles from Kuala
Lumpur, where he was born 60 years
ago.
Into the Silence:
At 61, in Sydney, Canon Horace Harder, for
the past 11 years rector of historic St. Mark’s,
Darling Point. He was B.A. and M.A. of
Sydney University, a World War I chaplain,
and recently produced a history of his church,
for which he turned up registers and minute-
books 100 years old. The canon was the
antithesis of the popular conception Of a Cleric
-—well over 6ft., he had a voice and handgrip
to match. His family has the distinction that
all its members, four of them, are in the Sydney
Uni. calendar.
In London, at 77, Admiral Sir Lionel Halsey,
who was Flag Officer Commanding, Australian
Squadron, immediately after World War I, and
chief-of-staff to the Prince of Wales on- his
1920 Australian tour. Sir Lionel was in at
the defence of Ladysmith, the Heligoland Bight
and Dogger Bank actions, and at Jutland was
Captain of the Fleet in battleship Iron Duke.
In Hobart, at 79, Colonel J. E. C. Lord, fine
soldier and competent Commissioner of Tas-
mania’s police for 34 years. In World War I
he led the 40th (better known as Lord’s)
battalion through the Passchendaele, Hamel and
Guillemont Farm savagery, and had temporary
command of the 9th Aust. Brigade at Amiens.
He came out with D. 5.0., C.M.G. and Croix
de Guerre.
In Perth, at 49, after a brief term oL head-
mastering Christ Church Grammar, Alexander
Todd, a World War I R.A.F. man who left
England for Perth’s Guildford Grammar in
1925 and had 18 years there before moving
to Geelong Grammar as housemaster. An
original member of the Victorian Film Board,
he collected Diploma of Education with honors
at Melbourne University.
At 65, in Melbourne, Robert Myers, 40 years
with the “Argus” and its head printer and
publisher until his retirement in 1946.
Found by station natives near his Fanny Cove
(W.A.) station, Litchard Mpir, whose family
have been connected with the State’s south-coast
settlement since the ’sixties. His grandfather
landed in Westralia in 1859; his father, William
Moir, took up a pastoral lease at Fanny Cove
in 1888, and claimed to have found the first
gold at Dundas; and an uncle was murdered
by an abo. at the cove with the blade of a
sheep-shear.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Bo”: The creators of those characters
whose daily syndicated strip-story
“adventures” constitute the Flapper
Press’s noblest contribution to the cultural
uplift of the masses are put to the
strangest shifts in their desperate en-
deavors to create sounds suggestive of
violent conflict. One amiable fellow, who
has for the past 18 months or so in-
variably uttered the word “Wham!” on
getting a sock on the jaw, has lately taken
to saying “Bok!” At first I thought,
judging by his expression (facial), that he
was merely calling for a misspelt glass
of that delightful light beer so popular
on the Continent, but so far no drink-
waiter has appeared. Another character,
“It's our wedding anniversary."
on being lifted a few feet off the ground
by an uppercut, and before gravity has
started to pull him back to earth, simply
says “Clonk!” Stadium ringsiders will
attest that this is the usual sound that
comes from pugs whd have just been
floored with a haymaker. But I award
the palm for ingenuity and sheer sim-
plicity to the black-and-white man who,
evidently “giving away” all further
attempts to coin a suitable word to fit
his character’s registration of shocked
surprise on getting a kick in the stem,
was first in the field with “Grunt” in the
balloon issuing from his mouth.
* * * ♦
“Findy”: As a practitioner of one of
the oldest branches of the political-
propaganda game—-it was one of my
Roman prototypes who scrawled “Cicero
est nuts” on the walls of the Forum, and
the founder of our profession etched
“Mene, Mene, Tekel, Upharsin” on the
wall of Belshazzar’s banqueting-hall—l
wish to register an emphatic protest
against the legislation restricting the size
of political notices. The new rule is
definitely discriminatory, and militates
against persons such as myself who, hav-
ing no printing-press at their disposal,
have to rely upon hand-painted signs to
get their message through to the people.
Using a whitewash-brush or a paling
dipped in tar, how can anyone be reason-
ably expected to confine the words
“Fizzleguts’s proper place is in Long
Bay” within the narrow limits of an area
ten inches by six? It is party legislation
pure and simple. I am the true non-
party man. One month I may feel im-
pelled to decorate the city walls with
“Send all Commo scum to Moscow” ;
a little later my slogan may be “Release
Sharkey the Workers’ Friend.” Similarly,
although it is my hand that paints up in
bold letters “Liberals Cockies Capitalists
Rook the Working Man,” I am also
responsible for asserting in whitewash
“Chifley Scabs on the Working Class —
Repeal Crimes Act.” It’s the finish for
me. Others seem to manage succinct
slogans like “Stink-bomb McKell” and
“Votch Yard, Maxie,” but I’m too old
to learn brevity. I’m out —leaving the
field to the cove who scrawls “Eternity”
on the footpaths.
* * * *
“Blue P.”: My entry for the most
masterly piece of understatement this
year comes from a court in Nuremberg
(Germany), where a 30-years-old man
was up for putting a stick of dynamite in
his father’s mattress and blowing the old
man to bits as he slept. The offender got
2\ years for “illegal use of explosives.”
* * * ♦
“Zake”: The very latest in men’s golf
fashions, I note, are short light slacks
reaching only to the calf (coolie pants),
with the tail of the shirt worn outside.
That the fashion-wheel has turned full
circle I can confirm from my recent pil-
grimage to China, where I was delighted
to observe the Celestial cockies ploughing
their paddyfields clad in plus-fours and
sleeveless pullovers.
* * * *
“J.R.D.”: In our Queensland seaside
town the newsagent has solved the distri-
bution problem by a number of self-
service stands at strategic points. These
consist of a covered box on four legs
with an open front from which the
passerby extracts his morning or evening
paper and drops his money into a slot
on top. The newsagent pedals along on
his bike occasionally to replenish stocks,
but otherwise they’re out on their own,
like another well-known type of Queens-
land architecture, and we residents regard
them similarly as part of our landscape,
I’ve seen honesty-systems work else-
where, but apparently a New Aus-
tralian whom I saw the other morning
hadn’t. After studying the stand from
every angle he eventually took up a posi-
tion several yards away; some time later,
noting his air of complete mystification,
I asked him if he wanted a newspaper.
He shook his head slowly and pointed to
the stand. “I look. Every man he take
the paper, put in the money.” I tried to
explain that that was the general idea of
the thing, but he still shook his head.
“In my country people take paper—
maybe one man take all paper—no man
put money, Maybe some man take box,
steal money, too.” Next time the news-
agent came along I asked him how the
“Order in the court!”
system worked out. He shrugged his
shoulders. “Sometimes it’s one shy—
once in a while it’s one to the good. A
customer might be short of change oc-
casionally.” Perhaps we have something
over the older countries after all.
**. * . *
“V. Cluse”: My missus is a lover of
horses in the non-racing sense, so when
I came across a Melbourne paper with a
page or two of pictures of fancied Mel-
bourne Cup nags (Foxzami wasn’t among
them) I took it home for her. She wasn’t
in when I got there, but arrived half an
hour later, tired and worried. When we’d
settled down to a cup of tea I produced
the pictures. She looked at them, gave
a faint scream, rushed into her bedroom
and slammed the door. Wise in some
manifestations of the female nature, I
waited. Presently she returned, “Sorry,”
she said, “but I’d been out trying to buy
some sugar most of the afternoon. Went
to three different suburbs. That”—an
accusing finger stabbed at the pictures —■
“was the dead finish.” That was a picture
of a nag called Delta being fed sugar
from a can big enough to hold 201 b. of
the stuff.
* * * *
“Seventyniner”: Sorry to butt in again
on the twin ships, but “Salt-horse Pom”
(B. 26/10/’49) seems to have been misin-
formed as to the former name of his
command, the Rip. The ex-Queensland
gunboat he refers to must be the
Paluma, a twin ship to the Gayundah,
the latter being still in service on the
Brisbane River as a gravel-barge. When
the Commonwealth took over the
Queensland Navy Paluma went south,
but Gayundah stayed at home. She still
has her old name, and I saw her only
yesterday still engaged on her lawful
occasions. Twins, human or marine, are
a fruitful cause of confusion.
* * * *
“M. Brassie”: Saw golf played at its
very best by a young abo. and his wife
the other week. Joe teed up his ball and
belted a long shot that took a slice at the
finish and dived into long grass in a dry
creek-bed. Man and wife walked down
the fairway and Joe sat down and rested
while Ju.dy went in and searched for his
ball. When she found it she signalled
and Joe went in and played his next,
That procedure, followed for the 18 holes,
allowed Joe to finish his round without
tiredness or worry. I’m going to try it
on the associates at our club. No flowers,
please
* * * *
“Sha”: I served four years in turret-
ships of the John Temperly line—Red-
bridge, Trowbridge alid others. They
were beautiful sea vessels and could take
a terrific beating in rough weather with-
out the need for lifelines on deck. The
turret decks were a prolific source of
fresh fish in calm weather, as after dark
all one needed was a light and a bucket to
fill up with flying-fish attracted by the
light and committing suicide by thudding
into the ship’s side and dropping on the
turret deck, I would like to place it on
record that the Trowbridge, Captain John
Marrs, was the last vessel to sight the
Waratah. A number of the crew saw
what we believe was the ill-fated ship in
extremely dirty weather. We were bound
for Durban to bunker, but could not
make it and were ordered out to sea
again owing to rough weather. We hove-
to for three days and filled one hold
to stabilise and put out oil-bags to pre-
vent damage from smashing waves. We
had to tear down the ship’s ceiling to
g e t steam up when weather moderated.
Turret-deckers were not things of beauty,
i w m agree, but fine dry ships, and we
seldom had to resort to fiddleys to have
a mea ]. These ships took railway
sleepers from Bunbury to India. Prob-
ably t h e one Mcllwraiths had was pur-
chased while out here as a replacement,
* * * *
“Pawang”: The Astrological Bureau
of Britain has suddenly become interested
in the Australian birthrate, following the
birth of an abo. baby in a plane flying
from a mission station to Derby Hospital
(W-A.) ar\d the arrival of a white baby
a couple of days later and under' similar
conditions during a flight over Cook-
town (Q.). The bureau wants full latitude
and longitude details because these will
give a clue to the temperaments the
children will carry all through their lives,
which will have an astrological pattern all
their own. According to the astrologers
a man ’ s life is governed by the aspect of
the stars at the time and place of his
birth, and, generally speaking, that is a
fixed spot. Exceptions in the past have
been bullock-carts, chariots, stage-
coaches, taxis and ocean-liners, but these
are relatively slow-moving platforms. An
aeroplane is a different proposition. A
platform travelling faster than sound
might even leave time and place behind,
an d a child whose first wail was uttered
in such circumstances might well be
called star-crossed,
* * * *
“Bumpk”: A soldier who wanted to
go farming read textbooks about it in
die Army. After the war he bought a
property in Gippsland. He looked up the
bode, ploughed, looked up the book,
sowed, looked up the book and harvested ;
and in five years had improved poor
scrubland for which he had paid £3 10s.
an acre till now its value is £4O an acre,
This might sound like a justification for
textbook methods of education, but it
isn’t. It is the way it’s done that is
important. A young lady friend of mine
is taking a psychology course at the um-
versity. She reads psychological text-
books—dozens of them but she doesn t
understand them and never will under-
stand them because she doesn t
apply them to her own world. She
doesn’t know herself, so she gets nothing
from the books, and wouldn’t get any-
thing if she read a million. The soldier
knew what he wanted, applied what he
read to his own world, and in five years
not only made himself into an excellent
farmer, but kept a wife and family into
the bargain by his farming.
CHIFLEY’S NATIONAL ANTHEM.
“Dr. Evatt says that employment, and not social-
isation, is to be the subject of the Federal election,
and that Mr. Chifley will make all this clear in
his policy speech.”
Australia’s sons, why not rejoice?
You still are partly free,
With private banks, though little thanks
For this is due to me;
Your land enjoys prosperity
I have not quite destroyed—
Don’t put me out, but loudly shout; j
“Keep Shiffo’s gang employed!”
Chorus of “Labor” politicians:
In anxious strains then let us sing
“Keep Chiffo’s gang employed!”
Don’t let them say you left old Chif
To drive a dirty train,
Or sent poor Bert to bleat and blurt
In vulgar courts again,
Or Cally to the civil life
Of which he is devoid,
But let your song be clear and strong;
“Keep Chiffo’s gang employed!”
Chorus of “Labor” Ministers:
In anxious strains then let us sing
“Keep Chiffo’s gang employed!”
Not only for ourselves we plead,
But hangers-on as well —
The mighty mobs we put in jobs,
From Garden to McKell;
And those who want such jobs themselves
May still with hope be buoyed
If, clear and strong, we hear their song;
“Keep Chiffo’s gang employed!”
Chorus of “Labor” heelers:
In anxious strains then let us sing
“Keep Chiffo’s gang employed!”
Though promising employment for
Australia as a whole,
When miners struck, we did a duck
And put you on the dole;
It’s our new way of tackling strikes
By getting you annoyed,
But also note this when you vote:
We kept ourselves employed!
Chorus of union-organisers:
In anxious strains then let us sing
“Keep Chiffo’s gang employed!”
And now I’d like to frighten you
With workless want and wuss;
You may not see how this could be—
But leave it all to us:
And then, when you are dinnerless,
Your grief will be alloyed
If you can say, “Well, anyway.
Old Chiffo’s gang’s employed!”
Chorus of Communists:
In anxious strains then let us sing
“Keep Chiffo’s gang employed!”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Col M.”: Barmaids kicked the boards
for new kegs; bank-tellers fanned them-
selves with their blotters. The rest of the
city was abroad on the tacky asphalt
having quick look at the shops before the
afternoon’s work. At the intersection
was a policeman, hot all the way from
soles to cap, terse in his traffic signals.
He thrust a palm at the main flow, spun
at right angles, and dragged the cross-
traffic into life. A lady in a little car
drove up to him, around him, and, with-
out even putting her hand out, turned
into the main stream. He couldn’t believe
it, but when he found his voice
pedestrians jumped in their tracks. She
pulled over, and he slowly strolled
towards her, flapping his notebook. He
had just begun to write when his pencil-
lead snapped. He shuddered a little and
methodically rubbed his chin. Then he
asked “You wouldn’t have a pen or any-
thing like that on you, would you? No?
I didn’t suppose you would. Well, look
here. You’re lucky. But if you ever try
that twisty-twirly stunt on me again, I’ll
run you in, and your car, too!”
* * * *
“8.A.K.”: Here’s my encounter with
railway officialdom (B. 5/10/’49). Run-
ning late, I had boarded the train at
Guildford (N.S.W.) without a ticket. At
Granville, two stations down the line, the
“All change” rang out. On the platform
I decided to climb the stairs, pay the ex-
cess fare and buy a return ticket to town.
The rqan at the gate accepted my ex-
planation with my money and issued a
receipt; then, with the best of intentions,
he appointed himself my financial ad-
viser, while also keeping a careful eye on
the interests of the Commissioner. “Now
there are three ways you can do this.”
He produced a stub of pencil. “A single
to town will cost you” ... (a spot of
figuring on a scrap of paper). “But a
single back to Guildford would cost” . . .
(more arithmetic). “On the other hand,
you could buy a weekend return excur-
sion from Granville. That would be
cheaper; it would cost” “All right,
that’ll do.” I cut him short. He smiled
the tolerant smile of a farseeing man.
“But then you would have to alight here
on the return journey and buy a single
to Guildford. Unless” his eyes
"Cosh—these brakes!"
seemed to search me for criminal in-
stmets—“unless you tried to defraud the
railways by travelling on an invalid
ticket. But, gosh, there’s only tup-
pence difference in the excursion
tickets - His interruption was freez-
mg: tJ Even if it was the same price it
would still be illegal. I was led to the
ticket-window. Give this gentleman an
excursion return to Sydney and an ex-
tension from Granville to Guildford,”
he commanded. He watched me get it.
In the meantime my train had come and
gone. I caught the next —the one I
would have caught if I’d waited at Guild-
ford.
* * # *
“Clooter”: All those people who’ve
been saying nasty things about a certain
brand of bubble-gum have had their
warning, and I hope it has a salutary
effect. The manufacturers have made it
known that they “may find it necessary
to take appropriate action” if there’s any
more of it, doubtless following the
Shakspearian axiom about the difference
between pinching a purse and a good
name. Anyhow, the calumniators of this
particular form of bubble-gum “would
be well advised to withdraw their state-
ments immediately,” as
It is on record that the United States
Food and Drug Administration, after very
careful bacteriological tests on human
beings and animals with a large number
of different brands of bubble-gum, were
able to announce that absolutely no harmful
effects whatever could be detected.
Until I read this I had but a hazy notion
of what bubble-gum really was (I thought
it was a base for paints or something),
so I went out and investigated ; now the
spectacle of a cow chewing the stuff and
blowing it forth as bubbles persists in
haunting my imagination.
* * * *
“Curate’s Egg”: The Yankee fire-
brigade par (B. 19/10/’49) recalls a
famous mass arson trial staged in a mid-
western city of the U.S.A. in 1908. For
several years the volunteer fire brigade
had, by the efficiency with which it
arrived at fires almost simultaneously
with the first smoke, attracted wide pub-
licity to the city. Feminine admirers of
the brigade’s dashing members prophe-
sied, in their enthusiasm, that ultimately
their heroes would arrive on the scene
before the conflagration. By doing ex-
actly this one day the whole show was
spoilt when a disgruntled and rejected
applicant for membership in the elite
corps touched off an explosive train of
investigation. This showed that, under
the brigade’s smoothly-working system,
part of its strength had been regularly
rostered to start the fires at a carefully-
timed interval before the sounding of
the alarm. Faulty synchronisation of
watches had produced the debacle which
landed the limelighters in chokey.
* * * *
“Kelms”: Can’t account for the im-
munity of Greeks and Italians from polio,
but they differ from native Australians in
one aspect other than that of wine-
drinking (B. 5/10/’49). They eat garlic.
They eat it as an appetiser, a food and a
pastime, and if it doesn’t keep the doctor
away it must at least make him a re-
luctant visitor. A Greek mamma who
appeared to be immune to every com-
plaint except obesity and its accompany-
ing discomforts regarded garlic as the
panacea for all ills. It may gain favor
some day if science can discover a remedy
for garlic!
“Carlyle”: Polio specifics? In our
district, where four cases have occurred,
camphor has come into its own again as
an alleged preventive, and there’s scarcely
a youngster who doesn’t carry a bag of
the stuff around his neck. Sulphur is
another popular safeguard, possibly be-
cause of the current furphy that a Mel-
bourne man (anonymous) will hand over
£lOOO to any person who contracts the
disease while wearing sulphur inside his
shoes. Some hold the view that the
epidemic will “peter out with the rain” ;
others insist that only persons of fair
coloring are susceptible. The most likely
theory to date is the One held—unofficially
—by the r.m.o, at the district hospital:
that if it weren’t for the epidemic the four
“mild” cases now in our hospital would
not be regarded as polio victims, but
rather as sufferers from one of the many
vague complaints of childhood.
“Taswegian”: The pirate—he wore ear-
rings—was always complaining of the
food, Each time the nurse brought his
tray he’d give a disgusted snort. “Frog’s
eggs again! How d’ they expect a man
to get well on that muck?” One day he
rebelled. “Take it away,” he yelled, “and
tell the matron I want to see her.” The
nurse scurried away. “I’ll tell her what
to do with the frog’s eggs,” he told us.
“Man’ll die if he doesn’t have a steak or
something.” The matron came in.
“Blasht it — pubs'll be shut! "
“Now,” she said briskly. “What’s the
trouble?” Told, she- explained, politely
but firmly, how they were pre-
paring his stomach for the operation ;
what meat would do, what the tapioca
did. The pirate said nothing. Out went
the matron; in came the nurse with a
tray. The pirate sat hunched over the
bowl. He looked up like a scolded dog.
“Sounds different when it’s explained,”
he mumbled through a mouthful of frog’s
eggs.
* * * *
“X.S.”: Wishing to pick a horse to
back for the Cup, a Melbourne school-
master took a list of starters, shut his
eyes and jabbed the point of a pin through
the paper. It transfixed Count Cyrano.
One of the lessons that day concerned
the quaint ways of the unsophisticated
natives of the South Sea islands, and one
of these was the custom of obtaining
some relic of a person who might be a
rival for your girl or something and
plunging a sharp implement into it,
whereupon the owner duly succumbed to
disease or sickness. Racegoers know the
sequel; Count Cyrano had a track acci-
dent and had to be destroyed.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: Mrs. Henrietta Harvey,
of Rochester, Vic., recently celebrated
her 98th birthday. Her age isn’t
the old lady’s chief claim to distinction.
In her youth she was runner-up to Kate
Kelly'in a waltzing competition.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: We are apt to be blinded
by the prestige of these Stratford-on-
Avon Players, coming, as they do, from
Shakspeare’s birthplace. Are they any
more real than some of our own boys?
They have an Oxford or Cambridge
accent instead of an Australian, but one
isn't any better than the other —it is only
different, and the important thing is what
they express, not how they express it.
The characters come on looking as if they
had all bought new suits just before the
curtain goes up, and this is particularly
ridiculous in “Much Ado About
Nothing,” where the opening scene con-
cerns warriors returning from a fierce
engagement without apparently having
acquired a dint in their armor. Even
the hoboes look as if they had bought
new suits and torn them. The Stratford
players seem to me to be trying to fulfil
some strange convention. It happens to
be a more up-to-date convention than
the convention we’ve been used to, but
it is still only a convention.
♦ * * *
“Vingter”: Mention of Mozart (B.
12/10/’49) recalls that he owed his start
to Fritz Anton Mesmer, the German
medical man who, in the history of
psychology, has come down as Quack
No. 1. The public performance of
Mozart’s first opera in Vienna in 1778
was prevented by the Director of the State
Opera House. Mesmer thereupon made
available the little private theatre in the
grounds of his Landstrasse mansion, and
the spontaneous verdict of the critics
placed Mozart on the path to immortality.
Ironically it was Mozart’s association
with his patron which launched the latter
on the path which was to lead to the
severance of his ties with respectable
medicine. Mozarf introduced his bene-
factor to Fraulein Franzl Oesterlin, who
suffered from convulsions, hallucinations,
temporary blindness, cataleptic trance,
swooning and attacks of paralysis, all of
which maladies were later identified in
the Freudian concept as of hysterical-
cwm-sexual origin. As an adjunct to his
treatment Mesmer used a set of magnets,
two of which were fastened like splints
to the girl’s thighs, while the third, a
heart-shaped device, was fixed on her
chest. Whether or no he was consciously
exploiting the curative powers of sugges-
tion will never be known, but the patient’s
complete recovery was an incontro-
vertible fact. By refusing to take its
members into his confidence Mesmer
began a long and losing battle with the
medical profession. The final round was
staged in Paris when a special commis-
sion, of which Benjamin Franklin, then
American Minister to France, was a
member, blasted Mesmer and his
methods. This body thus banged firmly
a door which Mesmer had pushed ajar in
the corridors of psychological medicine.
It remained closed for nearly a century
until Freud, with his recognition of the
ability of hypnosis to cure hysteria,
opened it again.
* * * *
“Melaleuca”: The Gyppo has every
reason to shy off water (B. 12/10/’49). In
his native land a very common blood
fluke sheds its eggs into the human
bladder. If these eggs reach water they
develop into larvae which may infect either
a drinker or a bather. A further meta-
morphosis in the recipient’s body converts
the larvae into adult and highly prolific
flat worms. This fluke infestation has
spread with the increased use of irriga-
tion ditches in farming, and one estimate
is that three-quarters of the population
are sufferers.
* * * *
“T.McN.”: Usually I ignore these
religious cults that crop up, but a new
one in Japan called Jikosan seems to
have something to it. The members
stumped the Government there with this:
“We are servants of Jikosan, and since
we are divine personalities living high
above the clouds, we firmly reject paying
any taxes.” I had thought of forming a
branch here, but on reflection I readily
saw that a little thing like that wouldn’t
stump Mr, Chifley. He’d promptly
nationalise the clouds.
* * * *
“K.H.H.”: A few weeks back a shady
character put a fast one over an Adelaide
milk-bar lass by tendering an old 10s,
banknote as a present-day tenner. Now
another of those rare 10s. notes has
turned up, in the hands of a neighbor of
mine, a boot-repairer. The woman who
gave it to him as payment for a job said
she got it as a present 30 years ago. The
note is an early issue of the Common-
wealth Bank, and is about twice the size
of the 10-bob note of today. It bears the
signatures of J. C. Riddle, governor of
the bank, and J. Heathershaw, secretary
to the Treasury. In addition to being
overprinted in several places in red type
with the words “Half-Sovereign” it is
endorsed “The Treasurer for the Com-
monwealth of Australia Promises to Pay
the Bearer Half a Sovereign in Gold on
Demand ...” I am told that if my
friend took it to the Commonwealth Bank
and demanded his gold-piece, the bank
would have to give it to him. But here’s
the rub: to possess oneself of gold coin-
age nowadays is an offence against the
law. He would be all right while he re-
mained in the bank, but immediately he
stepped outside he would be liable to
arrest.
A NEW THEORY.
“According to a French scientist, fatness can be
the result of fear.”
Have you thought, when you’ve noticed the
Whem your waistline’s been slowly expanding,
That its cause was your love to indulge
An appetite strong and commanding?
Has it stabbed when some humorous mend
Emphatically stated he’d bet it
Was beer, and he’d then recommend
You eschewed the stuff, pronto? Forget itl
Once a comfort it was to reflect
When your embonpoint made it perplexing
While trying your knees to inspect
(For the aid of a mirror is vexing)
That your fatness was due to a gland
About which you could do very little.
Well, that’s all the bunk! Understand
It’s just that your courage is brittle.
In fiction and history we blend
Our fat men—the Falstaffs, the Neros;
I ask you—would any contend
That they’d be regarded as heroes?
Why not, then, accept the idea
(The thought, after all, could be odder)
Their bulk was begotten by fear
Much more than their fondness for fodder.
No need, then, to go easing up
When wielding a fork at the table;
Nor frown on the full amber cup—
Just soak up as much as you’re able.
Your bulging obesity’s due
More to fear of a conjugal shindy
Than gorging. You’re bloated, it’s true,
Because you’re inherently “windy.”
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


ABORIGINALITIES
Mat’s Mate”: When we first got into
the Bungaree district it wasn’t long before
a large, tough Irish-Australian decided
to go Mat. “Well, mate,” Mat said to
him. “I’ll have y’ on, if y’ feel that
way. But gimme a minute or two. I
gotta write a letter home first, tellin’ ’em
all about it.” The other looked his
astonishment. “Y’ see, mate,” Mat said
gently, “I didn’t want t’ come up here
at all. I got a sister down in Melbourne.
She’s one o’ them claravoyants or what-
ever y’ call ’em, an’ when I was out t’
see her last week she went into one o’
them tramces an’ when she comes out
she’s all white an’ tremblin’. ‘Don’t go
anywhere near Ballarat,’ she says, ‘be-
cause I just had a vision an’ I seen y’
kill a man in a fight an’ the police got
y’ an’ we had t’ put up fifty quid t’ get
y’ out of it.’ She was all shakin’ an’
her eyes stickin’ out. Well, I come here
because I don’t have much belief in that
stuff, but it seems funny y’ should run
into me an’ wanta have a go. So if you’ll
just wait till I drop ’em a line in case I
g°t t’ get that money we can hop outside
an’ ” Mat looked round the bar.
“Hey,” he demanded. “Where did that
bloke duck to?”
♦ * * *
“Jason” (New Hebrides): “Bat’s”
observation on the susceptibility of flying-
foxes’ wings to mosquito-bites (B.
21/9/’49) is evidence of the most re-
markable powers of perception. If the
flying-fox screeches in protest at the sting
of the mossie it is surprising that he so
seldom does when his wing is tom by
shot. The squawk of the “black bokis”
and the bite of the mosquito are both
mainly nocturnal nuisances in this part
of the world. It would be a rare human
being who could establish the cause of a
flying-fox’s screech by sneaking up a tree
in the dark and, without disturbing the
operation, observe the mosquito struggling
to extract an evening meal from the bat’s
almost bloodless wings. He might, just
as easily, give the flying-fox a dose of
quinine while he was on the job, in case
the offending mosquito was an anopheles.
When these smelly pests set up their
squawks in the mango-trees around my
house I am always under the impression
that they are squabbling over a particu-
larly delectable piece of fruit. Inci-
dentally, French cuisiniers here can pro-
duce a delicious meal of “black bokis”
cooked in red wine.
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Lower Tops’l”: A skeleton and
several seventeenth-century coins found
near the mouth of the Moore
River (W.A.) in 1931 were thought to
be from the ill-fated De Vergulde Draeck
(B. 5/10/’49). However, the reason no
traces were found of either the wreck or
the 69 castaways was that continued bad
weather so hampered the rescue ships that
no real systematic search was made. In-
cidentally, in 1658, a boat’s crew from
the rescue galliot De Emeloort made a
little-known boat-voyage from our shores
that takes beating. In landing through
surf the boat was stove-in; the crew of
10, in charge of Upper-steersman van
Santwigh, managed to get it on shore.
As the boat didn’t return in the specified
24 hours the captain of the De Emeloort
concluded that the crew were drowned,
and the consternation of that boat’s crew
when they saw their ship standing to sea
in threatening weather may be imagined.
But the Dutch seamen of those days were
tough and resourceful. Catching seals,
they covered the holes in the boat with
“Still sulking?”
the skins and they dried the flesh as
provisions. Then they set sail for Java.
Three men died of thirst and four more
were lost within 18 days of leaving the
Perth-Geraldton shore. Van Santwigh
and three other survivors eventually cast
ashore on the coast of Java. The cele-
brated boat-voyage by Bfigh in 1788, and
that by the convict Bryant three years
later, were over 3000 miles, as against only
1200 by these Dutch shellbacks, but the
two former had well-found and
-provisioned boats besides a break half-
way feeding on oysters in Barrier-reef
shores.
♦ ♦ * *
“North”: For hopeless desolation the
dry salt lakes of northern S.A. take some
beating. In these parts you approach
Lake Torrens through a 20-mile belt of
sandhills, warm terracotta-red lovely
with purple shadows in winter, but in
summer bleached to a brittle pink. The
sandhills end abruptly about two miles
from the lake. Even as far out as this
kangaroos, emus, parrots, babblers and
a few other birds are common in a good
season. In dry times, however, even Kelly
leaves the area and lizards are the only
noticeable life. At the edge of the sand
is an area of sterile, white mineralised
“Wonderful service in this outfit , Wilmington!”
ground and beyond this a couple of low
ridges bare of even the scanty mulga of
the sandhills. On these ridges the only
vegetation consists of salsolaceous bushes,
each growing on a 4ft. to 6ft. pillar of
accumulated sand above the white
mineralised clay. Even in good times
this is an utterly silent, birdless area.
Over the ridge lies the great white plain,
level as a floor, of the lake. This desert
stretches to the horizon, or, more often,
into the shifting curtains of mirage, a
shell of white salt over black mud. A
few ants and a spider species live in the
salt mud within a mile of the shore. But
as far as one can see the area is devoid
of life, silent and abandoned.
* * * *
“Heresone”: The eagle rose from the
ground, a young hare in his talons, and
settled on a limb of a near-by tree, which
was the domicile of a pair of wagtails.
The cock rushed to battle, circling and
fluttering round the invader, pouring out
a flood of high-powered abuse, though
not exactly risking an occasional ineffec-
tive peck. In lordly unconcern the eagle
finished his meal and then flopped lazily
away. I knew he would be back next
day if it suited him, but Willy became
almost incoherent as he told his wife all
about his wonderful victory. It would
be maligning a fine bird to compare the
eagle to the Corns, but Willy’s perform-
ance reminded me irresistibly of certain
members of the Federal Government
during the big coal strike,
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Big Fleming had eaten
too much at the midday meal, and, being
alone in the harness-room and almost
overcome by sleep (and aware that the
boss was with us putting in a sheep-ramp
at a gate two miles away), he loosed his
belt and lay down among the bags and
things. Sleep flowed along his nerves
and soothed his senses, and his conscious
thoughts faded into dreams. So it was
that I, having been set back for a couple
more roller strainers, stepped into the
harness-room just in time to see a brown
snake begin to slide over Fleming’s chest.
I froze, thinking it best not to waken
the sleeper until the snake was clear ; but
Fleming’s big hand came up and pushed
the snake away. The snake disappeared
on the far side of his body and his hand
was still. Before I could move the
ophidian head appeared again, appeared
to contemplate the hand for a moment,
then began the slide across Fleming’s
body. This time the hand remained still
and the snake passed across Fleming and
in among the junk piled behind his head.
Then I woke him up. That was a mistake.
He heard my excited words, looked at
the pile of junk, then back at me, and
promptly keeled over. It took half a
bucket of water from the woolshed tank
to bring him round.
* * * *
J ector ” : Had really was to blame
in the first place for believing the hand’s
claim that he could fall the dead tree in
another direction (B. 19/10/’49). The
natural lean of a tree is determined not
only by the inclination of the barrel but
by which side carries the bulk of the
weight above. A green tree can be
pulled 30 or 40 degrees away from its
lean by the way it is cut; but not a dead
one. A tree dead and riddled by white-
ants would ignore all efforts by the man
with the axe to steer it and obey
gravity’s orders. The only variation to
this rule would be the influence of a
strong wind,
* * * *
“Tarbush”: Tell “Am” (B. 12/10/’49)
that rats are not allergic to traps. Dur-
ing the war English zoologists set out to
exterminate the rodents in London. Ex-
periments showed that rats avoided any
unfamiliar object— trap, tin, chunk of
bread, or old boot —placed near their
runs. Contrary to trappers’ belief Rattus
made no distinction between an object
bearing man-scent and one that didn’t.
Operations began by taking a rat census
in the local area to be trapped. This was
done by placing food at strategic points
and increasing the amount gradually until
the weight taken by a fully-feeding rat
population was known. Then at points
along the runways a carefully calculated
amount of food was placed—unpoisoned.
On the first night very little would be
eaten ; the remainder was removed. The
second night a larger amount would be
scoffed. By about the fourth night, the
strangeness having worn off, all the food
would be taken. Next night the same
amount of food went out in the same
places—plus rat-poison. As rats were
known to keep to their own districts,
areas were thus systematically cleaned
out. The 3700 miles of London sewers
were literally killed out—Bs to 100 per
cent, kill in one baiting was the rule.
* * * *
“Billy T.”: Stayed with the Jacksons
once; there were 11 of them, but a
couple were often away, and I had Bob’s
little room at the end of the verandah.
Didn’t get properly to sleep until late,
for every now and then a soft rustling
under the bed had me guessing between
rats, rabbits and carpet-snakes, and
whenever I stirred sufficiently to roll over
and peer underneath it would be just in
time to see a small form in pyjamas scoot
away on all fours. Couldn’t make out
what could interest the visitor and finally
dozed off. Early next morning Mrs. J.
bustled in with a cup of tea and added
“Billy, would you give me a hand to drag
that case of plums from under your bed?
I want to bottle them.” Next night I
slept in peace.
* * * *
“Wippegong”; The oats are in ear.
As they grew two feathered sprites rose
higher still above them, till now the
praises of this ardent season rings out
in the blue, though the singers are hard
to see. The first is an agitated atom that
has been labelled Golden-headed Fantail
Warbler; the last two words are name
enough, though in the present breeding-
plumage his burnished dome is a glinting
gem. He likes swampy spots and crops,
but when the oats are maturing they are
his favorites —mainly, I fancy, because
he is aware of the elfin picture he makes
perched on that delicate head and sway-
ing, a ball of fluff balanced on an arch
of green grain. A relative of the Indian
tailor-birds, you’ll find his Lilliputian
home snugged away in the weeds, with
maybe a dandelion- or dock-leaf sewn to
it. He sings, or rather squeals, with
delight, from a fence, then suddenly sets
off for heaven, but at about 40ft. gets
giddy or something and dives for the
crop. Away above another song rings
out, clear and strong. It didn’t rise to
the sky; it began there. Following the
melody, you find him —a whir of brown
wings, glinting against the brilliant blue,
sweeping round in wide circles. He sings
folksongs; not the stunt stuff that passes
for popular songs, nor yet the unbridled
outpourings of opera, but simple, sweet
folksongs, with oft-repeated fine lines.
This is the Bush Lark, smaller than the
introduced fowl that inspired Shelley and
others, yet every bit as worthy of tribute
—but I’m no Shelley. He’s not above
using a bar or two from a tune he
admires, and I’ve heard the note of the
stubble quail and even the silver-eye com-
ing from heights where they do not
belong. A true artist, he knows how to
fold up and shut up while his audience
is still wanting more, so at the end of a
beautiful rolling line the brown wings
close, down goes the head, and he drops
like a stone, to flatten out just over the
crop and flutter out of sight.
RUN IN.
The,long hours drag and hang and stop,
A dim light shines somewhere on top,
And every while, within the door
That groans and grinds so slow, one more
Fool drunk comes in to curse or snore.
From out the dark echo the calls
And songs of others in the “crate,”
Mixed with the slow, stern sound that falls
Of warders’ feet —size, number-eight.
I hear the grind of ponderous keys
Turning like stanchions in old locks;
And, in my bed, can I feel fleas?
Can I smell, too, some prisoner’s socks?
Now booms the cheerless hour of two,
The echoes roll in sombre waves,
And there is naught for man to do
Save wait the light of day he craves.
Three, four and five, the hours ring out,
A.nd dawn’s grey shafts their task begin;
The restless guests all pace about
And wonder why they were run in,
Now take the coffee and the bread,
Now stand in line with all the batch:
Old-timers laugh, “firsts” hang the head—
Enormous coppers con their catch.
How fine the sunshine seems afar!
How good the city noises are!
How sweet each grinding jolt and jar!
And now life sings its old refrain:
Tonight the cells will fill again.
VICTORIA.
HACKO.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
* tmxa
4 WAmnsP
aU^kIOSTSEOVC
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AMD AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPI
OPERATORS
•TEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS ! t PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKS UL.” BRISBANE
Commonwealth
df
of Australia
Attorney-General’s
Legal Service Bureaux
The Legal Service Bureaux established as part of the
Commonwealth Attorney-General’s Department in 1942
perform the service of advising without charge for the
benefit of ex-servicemen and ex-servicewomen and also
their dependants.
The Bureaux work in very close conjunction with
ex-servicemen’s associations. Advisings are given
especially in connection with claims under the
Re-establishment and Employment Act.
Any ex-serviceman, ex-servicewoman or dependant
concerned is entitled to place his problem before the
Bureaux and receive advice free of charge. The
Bureaux advise either personally or by letter.
In addition the services of Bureaux officers are avail-
able in relation to old age, invalid and widows’ pensions
and Commonwealth unemployment and sickness
benefits.
Addresses throughout the Commonwealth are: —
4th Floor, Mercantile Mutual
Building
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone BW 1852
C.M.L Building
72 HUNTER STREET
NEWCASTLE
Telephone B 1597
Saxon House
450 LITTLE COLLINS STREET
MELBOURNE
Telephone MU 9194
Epworth Building
55 PIRIE STREET, ADELAIDE
Telephone Central 6417
A.N.A. House
ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE, PERTH
Telephones: B 6511, B 4797
Crown Solicitor's Office
COMMONWEALTH OFFICES,
WEST BLOCK, CANBERRA
Telephone 631
T. and G. Building
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Telephone B 9124
Deputy Crown Solicitor’s Office
A.W.C, Building
CLEVELAND ST., TOWNSVILLE
Telephone 1972
Commercial Banking Company of
Sydney Bnildlng
EAST STREET. ROCKHAMPTON
Telephone 3169
Police Building
FRANKLIN WHARF, HOBART
Telephone Central 6658
Deputy Crown Solicitor’s Office
BENNETT STREET, DARWIN
Telephone 166
H. V. EVATT,
Attorney-General o£ the Commonwealth.
ALL-BRITISH n
finiixii| §teu)flri
No. 58
as illustrated.
PRICE
40/-
No. 236.30/5 No. 28.307-
No. 388.27/6 No. 475.17/6
No. 540.18/6 No. 759.17/6
FULLY GUARANTEED
The easy writing
and perfect ink-flow
are appreciated by
every type of
writer
The quality
Pen at a
reasonable
price •
The Popular ? etv
with the
M&RVEU-OUS
LONDON
“Solitude”: For two months Seventy-
fiver had been chasing horseshoes, with-
out result. Each time he chucked on the
saddle he broke out afresh, and each time
old Punch stumbled he cursed everything
from the animal to the Government.
“This down-country trip’s gonna play hell
with his hoofs,” he growled, as we started
out. “But a man might pick up a set o’
shoes somewhere.” For the next few
days at each small township we passed
I was left with the mob while Seventy-
fiver disappeared hopefully and re-
turned mad. Punch was limping
badly when we arrived at our nearest
township on the return trip. “Better
try ’em again,” snorted Seventy-
fiver. He disappeared into the black-
smith’s shop, then into the store, and came
out spluttering. I edged him towards the
pub; “Well, fancy running into you,”
an old traveller greeted him affably
“You look riled. What’s up?” “Huntin’
things I can’t get.” “Yes, must make it
awkward up here,” sympathised the
traveller. “In our line we hear a bit, and
can provide against shortages Look
here.” He leaned over, confidentially.
“I don’t do this sort of thing as a rule,
but you’ve done me many a good turn
and I’m going to let you in on something,
see?” Seventyfiver’s ire subsided and he
closed in interested. “You can take it
from me they’re going to be darned
scarce,” whispered the voice, “so if I were
you I’d get in a few spare sets of horse-
shoes.”
“Gravelsnatcher”: Agree with “Quorn”
(B. 19/10/’49) that “even the dignified
old pelican obviously enjoys flight.”
But why the “even”? Nothing in feathers
gains more enjoyment from its supremacy
of the air, or displays its skill more per-
sistently or to greater advantage. What
is mistaken for dignity is the quiet calm
born of the knowledge of its superiority
over all other river craft. In flight,
pelicans rise and descend in spirals, and
a group will keep exact formation from
take-off to high altitude, or vice versa.
But it is in the far reaches of a sunny
sky that the birds indulge their love of
aerobatics. A company of them will
wheel and turn, executing a series of
"Get on with your job! Dont stand there like an ape!"
apparently complicated manoeuvres with
a precision that indicates long practice
or inherited skill in a traditional sport.
I have no doubt that it is a sport, and
that the birds glory in it. It’s the sort
of thing I’d like to do if I were a bird.
* * * *
“Hanko”: Mellowed by a glass of
reisling, the boss put over the hoary yarn
of the cocky who dismantled one of his
two windmills because he reckoned there
wasn’t wind enough to drive both of
them; but the story left old Fritz still
puffing seriously at bis meerschaum. The
trump was about to tell it all over again
when Emma said “Can’t you see, father?
It’s a joke. The farmer was silly.”
Fritz shook his head. “Nein,” he said.
“Der varmer vos not zilly yet. Der
varmer vos righdt, aindt it?” Emma
shrugged and picked up her knitting. The
boss wriggled uneasily. “Look, Fritz,”
he said, “The wind would drive any
number of mills. Can’t y’ see?” Fritz
shook his head. “Dere vos yoost so
mooch vind und not more, alretty.” The
boss gave a derisive snort, “How many
gandles gan you blow oudt, poof?” said
Fritz. “Aw, that’s different,” said the
trump. “That’s a stoopid argyment.”
“See dot bibe?” said Fritz, waving the
meerschaum. “I smoke dot von goot,
but smoke anodder von at der zame time
I gannot, not yind enough haf,”
“Arr,” the boss began, choked it back
and grabbed his hat. Fritz rocked with
glee and Emma dropped a stitch with
abandon.
* * * *
“B. A, Ker”; “Helldud’s” testimony
that he has seen white-ants at work on a
punt moored 25 yards offshore (B.
19/10/’49) was very interesting, and his
reasoning sound —the case does seem to
prove that termites do not have to make
contact with earth if they can reach
water. But the contention doesn’t con-
tradict my statement concerning the
necessity for white-ants to make contact
with earth, since, in a well-constructed
modern building (and I was discussing
buildings), there is no other place where
moisture could be obtained. The build-
ings in which “Helldud” found termites
working 50ft. aloft were, I’d take a mild
gamble, stone-walled or built of brick
in the days before cavity-walls were in-
troduced. Stone or solid walls of brick
draw moisture inside by capillary attrac-
tion. Incidentally, in stone, concrete or
brick buildings no real precautions are
taken to exclude white-ants. With amaz-
ing inconsistency architects specify ant-
caps to be placed over all piers carrying
floor-bearers, but, excepting isolated
cases, completely ignore the fact that the
little destroyer can climb the foundation
walls wherever he wishes. Still, the floor
timbers are always painted with creosote,
and, until the potency of the stuff has
worn off, termites will not come within
yards. Speaking as one whose apprentice-
ship days seemed to be a regular routine
of splashing on the horrible, stinking,
skin-itching fluid, I don’t blame ’em.
* * * *
“Bo”: The long, weary-looking cove
led the cow across the road, spiked a
raw mutton-chop on to the tip of one
of her horns, then put her through the
sliprails into a paddock which carried a
fair bit of scrub. After this he yawned
prodigiously, sat down in the shade of
a gum against the fence and composed
himself for a spot of vertical slumber.
His action having perplexed us, we
craved enlightenment as to the use of
the chop. “Wairl,” drawled the soporific
one, struggling manfully to keep awake
long enough to tell us. ‘‘Y’ see. Dais,
is pretty cunnin’ —she parks herself in
among the scrub, keepin’ her head dead
still so I won’t hear the bell she’s got
hung round her neck. That there chop’ll
bring the blowies around her scone in
droves, so what’s more natural than she’ll
shake her melon to get rid of ’em, an’,
o’ course, ring the bell!” If only he’d
been a Commo we’d have forwarded
his address to the C.5.1.R.0. —talents
like his are going to waste in the mulga,
* * * ♦
“Horseless -Horseman”; Possums show
nous at times. A silver-grey resided in
a neighbor’s roOf until stained ceilings
directed his removal. Then, although the
ragamuffin brought along a wife and
carried on acrobatics among the rafters
and ate the best rosebuds in the garden,
for weeks no one could find where the
intruders entered and left their home.
So an all-night watch was set. The roof-
squatters were then found to come and
go by prising up with their nose a loose
tile alongside a collar-tie in the rafters.
There are 1800 tiles on that roof-face and
that was the only one not wired. Now,
how did Mr. Possum find that tile in the
first place?
* * * *
“Teena”: After having killed an
ordinary grass-snake and hanging it on
the fence in the usual manner, we found
it had a large swelling about 6in. from
the head. After careful squeezing a frog
was extracted. It had been swallowed
whole, head-first. Some time later we
saw the frog very much alive and hopping
madly around in circles.
* * * *
“Mrs. P.”: “But what do you live on
up there?” the new city acquaintance
gushed. “Aw, the bush is all right,”
drawled Dad. “Any amount of leaves
an’ roots, and an animal every couple
of weeks.” Taxed afterwards with this
peculiar description of our rather ortho-
dox diet, Dad would not withdraw. “Well,
she expected something a bit off the
beaten track,” he defended. “And, after
all, what does anyone live on if it’s not
just meat, spuds and vegetables? And
that’s what I told her.”
LOVE IN EXILE.
Alas, my dear, ’tis long since I have faced you,
For we are thirteen thousand miles apart;
Tis two-and-forty years since 1 embraced you —
When I was young, and had a beating heart.
We still are single—God knows why!—unless,
dear,
No rival came who could obliterate
Permanent mutual recollection: yes, dear,
At least we wed no uncongenial mate!
We’ve corresponded, less and less persuaded
That it could ever come to anything;
And now our ardor, like the ink, has faded . . .
The song’s an echo that inspired our Spring.
Though airmail followed postage, as has wire-
less
Succeeded cables, short’ning time and space,
For us a common hearth continues fireless —
My tiring feet no homeward path could trace.
Yet still for me doth Shenstone’s sentence starry
Sound unforgettably its plangent note:
"Eheu, tarn minus reliquis versari
Quam tui meminisse I” —so he wrote.
(It may be that a rough translation’s wanted:
“Ah, how much less it always seemed to me
With others to pretend to be enchanted
Than to refresh my memory with thee!”)
But Autumn’s over: Winter fast approaches;
The pulse is soberer, the blood more chill;
And Age with clutching usury encroaches
Upon the shrinking season left us still.
Therefore expect to hear from me no more,
dear;
At senile sentiment doth Cupid scoff:
Since I’m three-score-and-ten, and you three-
score, dear,
The time has come, I think, to call it off.
ENGLAND.
GUY INNES.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Yarra Falls, Ltd.
Yarra Falls and Subsidiaries,*
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.)
126,287 8} p.c. = 87,500 38,787 484,648
To staff fund, £5OOO 479,648
1944.. 111,289 9} p.c. = 95,000 16,289 495,937
To staff fund, £5OOO 490,937
Plant-replacement reserve, £21,000 .. 469,937
1945.. 111,450 94 p.c. = 95,000 16,450 486,387
Plant-replacement reserve, £lO,OOO .. 476,387
To outside interests, £lB .. .. 476,369
1946.. 97,524 9 p.c. = 90,000 7,524 483,893
To staff fund, £4OOO 479,893
1947.. 206,373 124 p.c. = 125,000 81,373 561,266
To plant-replacement res., £30,000 .. 531,266
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 521,260
From tax reserve, £104,185 .. .. 625,451
1948.. 295,362 174 p.c. = 175,000 120,362 745,813
To plant-replacement res., £43,532.. 702,281
To staff fund, £16,700 .. .. 685,581
1949.. 258,449 124 p.c. = 125,000 133,449 819,030
To plant-replacement res., £46,000 .. 773,030
To staff fund, £25,000 .. .. 748,030
* After eliminating outside interests.
) Excluding replacement reserve, now £372,290.
This big woollen and worsted yam-
spinning and textile - manufacturing
organisation is the largest, and one of
the most efficient, of its kind in Australia.
Moreover, the enterprising management
has built up an export trade, which augurs
well for earnings in what look like diffi-
cult years ahead, provided, of course,
rising costs and fractious labor don’t
cripple the co.’s opportunities.
Chief factors responsible for the slip
of £36,863 in net earnings last term were
a decline in the export of wool-tops,
narrower gross margins (officially con-
trolled) and the continued rise in operat-
ing and all other costs. Turnover
(£3,055,197) increased by £563,174 (22.6
p.c.), due entirely to higher prices, which
took a big leap following the withdrawal
of wool subsidies. Largely for the same
reason, the bill for wool and other raw
materials (£1,219,825) was £385,813
(46.2 p.c.) heavier, while wage-lifts, etc.,
added £87,541 to the payroll total
(£784,360), and transport, power, main-
tenance, insurance, etc., costs went up,
too.
The £258,449 of profit was written after
allowing for depreciation (£30,635, down
£2337) and taxation (£179,550, down
£33,150) and also setting aside £105,747
as an “averaging fund.” This fund is the
extra profit on materials made from old,
or subsidised, wool stocks, and is to be
used to delay price rises in materials to
be made from non-subsidised, or new
season’s, raw wool. The £258,449 was
12.1 p.c. on shareholders’ funds (capital
and reserves, including plant-replacement
reserve, combined), or 25.8 p.c. on capital
alone as agaiqst 29,5, 20.6, 9.7 and 11.1
p.c. back to 1945. The cautious board
dropped the rate of distribution from
17} p.c. to 12} p.c., and of the £133,449
that remained £25,000 was sent to the
staff fund and £46,000 to plant-replace-
ment reserve, raising it to £372,290, which
is only £21,039 less than the figure at
which plant, etc., appears in the books —
cost less depreciation.
Whether profits are actually as good as
stated depends partly upon whether the
ordinary allowance for depreciation,
based on original, or historical, cost of
the chief earning asset (plant) proves
sufficient to cover actual replacement cost,
v/hich has rocketed owing to inflation. If
it doesn’t, then much of what has been
called profit will turn out to be not profit
at all, but capital consumed in the process
of earning profit. Hence the very sub-
stantial provision for plant-replacement
amounts to no more than commercial
prudence under existing conditions, and
discerning shareholders can smile while
the experts differ as to the professional
ethics of the practice.
Part of the idle plant at the parent’s
main Abbotsford mill (Vic.) is to be
transferred to new premises to go
up alongside the branch factory
at Dandenong (Vic.), where results
have exceeded expectations. Addi-
tions have been made to equipment
of the chief subsidiary. Globe Worsted
Mills Pty. (Marrickville, N.S.W.), which is
comparable in size with that of the
parent; and the other offshoot, Byfas
Pty., which turns out dress-goods at
Abbotsford, is fully occupied. A strong
and growing trade continues with N.Z.
and Middle East and Far East countries,
while recent currency devaluation has
strengthened the co.’s position in the
Canadian market. Sales to U.S. have
practically ceased for reasons other than
the price factor.
Locally the public still has plenty of
money in its pockets, but the continued
sfeep rise in operating costs is a threat
to both net earnings and the co.’s export
trade. Apart from wage-lifts and higher
prices for wool, costs are being criminally
bumped up by underemployment, which
flourishes in the form of industrial stop-
pages, absenteeism and restrictive prac-
tices, all of which reduce our power to
compete with overseas manufacturers
both inside and outside Australia. Now
that the sellers’ market has practically
vanished in America, and is rapidly van-
ishing elsewhere, elimination of under-
employment has become an urgent neces-
sity, The alternatives are lower wages
and unemployment.
Balance-sheet figures reflect all-round
expansion of the business:
Yarra Falls and Subsidiaries.
D ~ ~ , 1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital .. £1,000,000 £1,000,000 £1,000,000
Outside interests* 1,141 609 643
Overdraft .. 247,463
Sundry creditors) 568,778 448,367 534,531
Staff funds ~ 38,300 50,000 54,000
Freeholds ~ 461,512 460,745 470,931
Plant, etc. ~ 290,013 345,345 393,329
Stocks .. .. 915,002 1,005,210 1,705,389
Debtors .. .. 370,752 375,691 338,027
Shares .. .. 37,569 36,087 35,246
Cash, etc. .. 322,491 367,314 89,035
* Including proportion reserves. t Including tax
provision.
To meet a net addition of £700,179 to
stocks, £47,984 to plant and £10,168 to
freeholds the group went to its bankers
for £247,463, added £91,164 to the amount
coming to sundry creditors, reduced
debtors’ balances by £37,664 and drew
upon cash, etc., for £278,279.
The market shows its confidence in the
undertaking and its prospects by pricing
the pound shares at 68s. 6d. (655. 3d. a
year ago), giving an immediate return of
3.6 p.c. on a p.c, div. basis. Includ-
ing the plant-replacement reserve, net
tangible cover is 425. 5d., book-value.
Queensland Brewery, Ltd. (Brisbane)
— N
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 5J p.c. 7 p.c. serves, serves.
1940.. 79,500 10,957 67,511 1,032 144,210
1941.. 84,461 10,957 73,321 183 144,393
6 p.c.
1942.. 74,440 10,958 62,846 636 145,029
1943.. 93,897 10,958 62,846 20,093 165,122
7 p.c.
1944. .114,809 10,958 73,320 30,531 195,653
1945. .121,063 10,958 73,320 36,785 232,438
1946. .115,868 10,958 73,320 31,590 264,028
1947. .120,812 10,958 78,320 86,534 300,562
1948. .123,204 10,958 78,320 38,926 339,488
1949. .123,661 10,958 73,320 39,883 378,871
Better might have been expected con-
sidering the continued growth of turn-
over. Beer output for Australia stepped
up by over 17 p.c., reaching 148 million
gallons for the year to June 30 last, and
this Queensland co., which is one of the
two big breweries operating in the
northern State, turned out its share of
the bigger gallonage. Yet, after allow-
ing £35,715 (up £4763) for depreciation
and whatever was considered necessary
for taxation and other contingencies, net
earnings were only £457 better at
£123,661, That covered the £10,958 pref.
div. and 10.7 p.c. on the £1,047,432 of
ord. capital as against 10.7, 10.5, 10, 10.5,
9 and 7.9 p.c. back to 1943. The ord.
div. was kept at 7 p.c., and, with things
as they are, it is difficult to say when
better might be expected.
The trouble is that costs, which are still
rising, outstripped the gains from advanc-
ing turnover. Certainly the latest
accounts were the first to bear the full
brunt of the 40-hour week; but that
only means that outgoings for the current
term will not be pushed up to the same
extent on that account. There promises
to be substantial increases in respect of
other factors. On November 1 the basic
wage in Brisbane went up by 35., making
it £6 ss. a week, and further increases
are anticipated. Also, another }d. a
pound is presently to be added to the
selling-price of sugar, and there are no
indications of an early drop in the high
cost of barley, hops, malt and other
brewing ingredients.
The obverse side of the coin is a buoy-
ant national income—not as healthy as
it might be owing to inflationary pressures
—growth of population and high level of
employment at rising wage-rates. Never-
theless, appearances are that,the point is
not far distant when a lift in the selling-
price of beer will be needed if marked
contraction in net earnings is to be
avoided. Not long ago Victorian brewers
were granted an increase of 2d. a gallon
in the price for bulk beer. When the
Federal elections are out of the way,
hopes are that price-control authorities
in N. S. Wales and Queensland, where
Labor Governments are in the saddle,
will act similarly.
With a twinkle in its eye, the market
sums up the whole position by pricing
the pound ords. at 38s. 9d. as against
375. a couple of months ago. At 38s. 9d.
the return is 3.6 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div.
basis. The 5} p.c. prefs. at 275. 6d. yield
4 p.c. Net tangible cover (book-value)
is £8 2s. 3d. prefs. and 275. 3d. ords.
The business expanded very rapidly
before the war. During the eight years
to 1940 £947,815 of fresh capital was
got in at par. The lot, and more besides,
went into fixed assets, including hotel
properties—it is the form competition
takes, there being no price-cutting in the
trade:
1942. 1947. 1948. 1949.
£, £ £ £
Paid capital 1,246,666 1,246,666 1,246,666 1,246,666
Liabilities .. 540,435 431,826 421,856 426,035
Fixed assets 1,670,789 1,715,667 1,708,571 1,713,366
Stocks .. 143,960 155,718 213,078 230,463
Book debts.. 125,611 108,019 121,712 143,094
Investments.. 28,672 41,788 6,788 6,788
To meet last term’s additions of £21,382
to book debts, £17,385 to stocks and
£4796 to fixed assets, only £4179 was
added to the outside debt, which exceeded
more-or-less liquids by £35,690 when the
books closed, a net improvement of
£44,588 over the twelvemonth. As labor
and materials become available, money
will be needed for renovation and im-
provement of hotel properties; but the
board is tight-lipped about its plans in
this direction.
Newcastle and Hunter River Steamship Co.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1940.. 15,109 10 p.c. = 15,000 109 89,882
1941.. 14,289 10 „ „ 15,000 89,171
Insurance recoveries, £18,596 .. 107,767
1942.. 18,430 10 p.c. = 15,000 3,430 111,197
Loss.
1943.. 11,537 6 „ „ 9,000 90,600
Profit.
1944.. 7,505 5 „ „ 7,500 5 90,665
Loss Gwydir collision, £3918 .. 86,747
1945.. 7,718 5 p.c. = 7,500 218 86,965
1946.. 15,779 5 „ „ 7,500 8,279 95,244
1947.. 5,114 5 „ „ 7,500 92,858
Loss.
1948.. 42,178 Nil 50,680
From shipping board, £16,000 .. 65,680
1949.. 8,043 Nil 57,637
The 1948 and 1949 figures are a clear
and damaging indictment of socialistic
Government interference on the water-
front and in the shipping industry. The
loss in 1943, first thing of its kind since
the beginning of this century, was due to
exceptional circumstances brought about
by war conditions. The co.’s fleet passed
to control of the Shipping Board in 1944,
and was derequisitioned and returned
about the end of 1948. During the half-
dozen years to the close of last accounts,
profits plus receipts in adjustment of
charter rates, etc., exceeded losses by
only £895. And during this time no
allowance was made for depreciation of
ship property—more than adequate pro-
vision was made in previous years, the
board says.
However, the drift now appears to
have been arrested, thanks to belated lifts
in officially-controlled freight rates, etc.,
and to savings following transfer of the
co.’s Sydney berthing and wharfage
accommodation from Day-street to No,
36 Darling Harbor. Cost of this transfer
was charged against last term’s earnings,
and so was the cost of docking and over-
hauling three units of the fleet. Dis-
regarding the £15,000 received in final
settlement on charter account, which was
sent direct to reserves, trading for the
first half of the term resulted in a loss
of £16,118, and for the second half in
a profit of £8075, making net loss for
the twelvemonth £8043. And for the
second time in half a century shareholders
were passed by.
Prospects of the co. earning a moderate
profit and of returning to the dividend
list during the current term are encourag-
ing, provided controlled earnings don’t
lose the race against costs by too much,
and provided perennial industrial troubles
don’t unduly interrupt the flow of
cargoes and turn-about of the ships.
Underemployment has bumped up
costs on the waterfront more than any-
where else. It arises from go-slow tactics,
petty stoppages, labor’s opposition to
mechanisation on the wharves, and the
amount of overtime that has to be worked
and paid for at time and a half (7s. 7d.
an hour) because of the 40-hour five-day
week. The waterside-worker’s pay begins
from the time he is engaged at the pick-
up centre ; he is allowed 25 minutes to
get from there and commence work at
the ship, where most of the gang wait a
further 20 minutes, or thereabouts, for
removal of the hatches —a job previously
attended to by the crew —and then there
are 15-minute smoke-ohs every two
hours. Actual working hours average
nearer 35 a week than the 40 paid for.
And to the payroll total has to be added
levies for appearance-money, amenities
and holiday pay. It all stimulates the
inflationary pressures which have helped
to conceal the evils of underemployment,
and will ultimately make readjustment of
our economy to world conditions more
painful and more abrupt when it is forced
upon us.
The co.’s financial position improved:
1946. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Capital .. £150,000 £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities .. 21,320 28,779 47,990 43,716
Ship property 162,847 175,984 158,087 158,087
Freeholds, etc. 3,686 3,685 8,685 3,685
Plant, stores, etc. 10,023 13,074 12,413 16,091
Book debts .. 46,382 45,828 38,295 87,300
Consols, cash,
etc. .. 47,376 36,816 36,190 36,190
Book debts and cash, etc., together ex-
ceeded outside liabilities by £29,774
June 30, or £3379 more than at th©
previous balance. The fleet is reported
in good condition.
The market for the pound shares,
which had dropped to 17s. 6d. in May,
stood at 245. last weekend. The return
at 245. would be 4.1 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div.
basis. Net tangible cover is 275. Bd.,
mostly in ship property.
Selfridges (Australasia), Ltd.
Towards D®-
Jan., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. fieit-T
£ £ £ £•
1941 -- 37 > 809 * 5 p.c. = 14,249 nRO 9 022
To tax reserve £12,500 ..j 11,060 ’
Reserves.
Tax reserve written back £15,020 .. 5,998
1942.. 50,766* 6 p.c. = 17,100 ( 972 37.970
Tax paid, £1,694 .. , 31,»7.£ °
1943.. 59,668* 6 p.c. = 17,100 ) „ 907 41.917
Tax paid, £38,621.. t 3,90/
1944.. 47,624* 6 p.c. = 17,100 ) 27 36 1
Tax paid, £45,080.. ..j 1 ’
Taxes paid, etc., £28,778..) 9 160
1945.. 23,527 7 p.c. = 19,950 ( ~ ’
1946.. 30,487 8 „ ~22,800 7,687 9.847
1947.. 31,198 9 „ ~25,650 5,548 15,395
From tax provision, £14,000 .. .. 29,395
July,
1947.. 18,608} 10 p.e.= 14,250 4,358 83,753
From tax provision, £ll,OOO .. .. 44,753
1948.. 53,228 10 p.c. = 28,500 24,728 69,481
1949.. 48,644 10 „ ~28,500 20,144 89,625
t After deducting intangibles (£17,447). * Before
providing taxation. } Six months only.
Over the last 10 months the price of the
pound shares in this 17-year-old variety-
chain-store organisation—it has 16 shops,
all in N. S. Wales—have fluctuated be-
tween 445. 9d. and 375. in the market.
Sellers now ask 415., after sales at 40s.
The return at 40s. is 5 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis, and the cover 265, 3d. in net
tangibles. Obviously the market hopes
for no more than maintenance of the
10 p.c. div. at the moment. Under exist-
ing conditions earning-power appears to
have reached, if it has not already passed,
its peak, and prospects of early and profit-
able extension of the business seem to be
limited.
The slip of £4584 in last term’s profit
figure is an unwelcome signal. The gains
from a record volume of turnover were
more than offset by officially-reduced
gross margins, especially in the clothing
section, by the rise in costs, due mainly
to recurrent wage-lifts, and by the dis-
location brought about by the coal strike
during the closing weeks of the term.
Still, the £48,644 of profit, written after
allowing for depreciation (£11,568, down
£547) and taxation (£33,000, down £7000),
was second-best to date. It was 17 p.c. on
capital as against 18.6 p.c. for the preced-
ing 12 months, 6.5 p.c. for the six-month
period before that, and then 10.9, 10.7
and 8.2 p.c. for the three years back to
1945. The div. remained steady at 10 p.c.
for the third year in succession, making
an average of 7.7 p.c. over the last decade.
For the five years to 1944 no specific
provision was made for taxation, and
there were delays in assessment; so too
much notice need not be taken of profits
shown for this period, during which
assessments totalled some £114,000, leav-
ing the average net result at about
£20,700, or 7.2 p.c. on capital.
With costs (a stubborn item) still climb-
ing and gross margins controlled, the
current year’s result will depend largely
upon the extent to which turnover con-
tinues to expand. The immediate outlook
in this respect is encouraging, though
trading promises to become increasingly
competitive, which puts the emphasis on
shrewd buying. It may prove difficult to
hold profits at their present level; still,
there was a very comfortable margin
between last year’s net earnings and dis-
tribution, and the 10 p.c. doesn’t appear
to be in immediate danger. But the
economic background is both fluid and
complex, which makes it difficult to see
far ahead these days. Among other things,
the future might call for a change in loca-
tion of the co.’s main store in Pitt-street
(Sydney), where Coles’ have bought the
freehold of the block in which it is
located, and intend to erect large new
premises on the spot, when circumstances
permit.
The financial position improved, the
more-or-less liquid surplus (£247,587)
being £24,114 stronger than the previous
balance:
1946. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital .. .. £285,000 £285,000 £285,000
Overdraft .. .. 35,694
Sundry creditors* .. 114,076 105,466 132,358
Freeholds .. .. 19,613 19,723 20,011
Leaseholds .. .. 22,481 15,677 13,635
Plant, etc. .. .. 55,135 38,438 36,222
Shares other cos. .. 74,270 74,270 74,270
Stocks 202,195 325,664 333,029
Book debts .. .. 16,117 35,147 26,119
Cash 41,912 3,822 20,797
Intangibles .. .. 17,447 17,447 1<,447
* Includes tax provision and contingencies.
The moderate growth of £7365 in stocks,
which appear at cost or under, suggests a
cautious buying policy. Shares in other
cos. consist of 73,850 shares in Selfridges
(N.Z.) and 62,600 shares in Selfndges
(W.A.), all of £1 each, with £21,180 still
at call. For the last three years the W.A.
co. has paid 6 p.c. and the N.Z. co. 2} p.c.
Of the two the W.A. co. looks the more
promising.


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Institution. Established 1862.
Head Office; GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
E. R. KNOX (Chairman), F. W. HIXSON, ORWELL PHILLIPS,
G. F. HUGHES, R. J. VICARS, J. W. DUNLOP.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
CANE ENEMY
,a \ f
' v 1 ■• ' I s‘/i; -
i „ fgf WMIm y
was*
/ ’
Mm
X.
¥lll
■yi<
Ss*Si
Rats are cunning creatures, hard to catch or kill. Farmers
in the canefields fight them with special poisons. Thanks to
modem methods the rat pest in the cane districts is kept under
control. Other pests, too, which used to destroy thousands of
tons of cane, are now held in check by scientific measures.
THOUSANDS
1000.
600,
800,
700.
600,
500,
400,
300,
200,
100,
1900
MO
'2O
•30
*4O
•511
The chart shows how the yield of sugar has increased many
times while, at the same time, the acreage has increased only
slightly. Scientific control of cane pests and diseases has done
much to raise the yield of sugar per acre. Better types of cane,
many bred by The C.S,R- Company, and given free to the
farmers, have also increased the sugar yield; while improved
milling methods have meant more sugar extracted from every
ton of cane crushed.
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
mm
MEMORISE
WITH EASE
Pass Examinations.
Speak Without Notes.
Grip Lodge Ritual.
Send stamp for booklet.
Bev. W. Rowlands
12 Younger Grove,
Caulfield, S.E. 8, Yic.
Missing Friend.
TO REGINALD GEORGE OADD formerly
of Elgar Road Burwood Victoria. —TAKE
NOTICE that your wife ALICE ANN
CADD has instituted proceedings against
you for divorce on the ground of de-
sertion The petition and affidavit in sup-
port thereof may be inspected at our
office Unless you enter an appearance in
the Prothonotary’s Office of the Supreme
Court in Melbourne on or before the
Twelfth day of December 1949 and file
an answer on or before the Twenty-second
day of December 1949' the case may pro-
ceed in your absence. —GRAY & GRAY,
Solicitors, 340 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Proctors for the Petitioner.
Public Notice.
I, PANAGIOTES CYRIAKOS DAMIAN-
AKIS, of Greek nationality, born at
Agios, Nicholaos-Yion, Greece, and resi-
dent 23 years in Australia, now residing
at 20 Yurrong Street, Sydney, intend to
apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
B
h
9
-n
w
.Vi*
• ■ ■
V*
w %u/~
0
m
m
cU
fas*
($2
m
l
or not to queue....
m
•n
There is rarely a necessity to queue in any of Australia’s
free and independent Life Assurance Offices. Compe-
tition demands that they give you immediate and
courteous service, just as competition demands they
give you the best bonus additions current conditions
will allow. Competition ensures that Life Assurance
costs in Australia compare favourably with costs
anywhere else in the world. Because your savings
are wisely invested for your
benefit, and the benefit of
the nation, you enjoy com-
plete protection.
EVERY AUSTRALIAN BENEFITS
BY THE ACTIVITIES OF
OUR FREE AND INDEPENDENT
LIFE
ASSURANCE
OFFICES
ISSUED By THE LEADING LIFE ASSURANCE OFFICES IN AUSTRALIA
6«'El
Mount Morgan, Ltd.
Ord.
June, Income. Exes. Surplus. Div.*
£ £ £ £
20 p.c.
1940 989,815 770,111 219,704 58,700
1941 819,168 773,311 45,857 Nil
26.6p.c.
1942 964,284 836,970 127,314 78,267
1943 894,619 812,542 82,077 Nil
Net Loss.
1944 752,459 876,089 122,580 Nil
Surplus.
1945 803,602 751,756 51,846 Nil
1946 868,783 833,109 35,674 Nil
1947 965,037 864,002 101,035 Nil
1948 894,224 847,854 46,370 Nil
1949 1,173,37 9 1,04 4,885 128,494 Nil
• Prefs. received 8 p.c. p.a. (£16,000)
until 1945, and then 7 p.c. p.a.
(£21,000).
The lift in the price of gold on
Sept. 19 last has both lengthened
the life of this well-equipped and
well - developed mine and
brightened the outlook for share-
holders. They came into the
picture again with a 6d. div. (20
p.c.) on Sept. 30, and look like
remaining there, with good pros-
pects of better, provided there
is no material deterioration in
the relationship between costs
and metal prices or in the ex-
change rates.
The marked improvement in
last term’s financial results was
due to treatment of more better-
grade ore, an improved ratio of
both ore to overburden and of
concentration, higher recoveries,
a lift in the price of copper, and
the operation of No. 2 mill (idle
for practically the whole of the
previous term), which handles
low-grade material from outside
officially-stated ore reserves. It
contributed over £20,000 to tire
year’s £128,494 (up £82,124) of
profit, which was written after
allowing £61,800 (up £7556) for
depreciation. The £128,494 was
enough to pay the pref. div.
(£21,000) and show 30,7 p.c. on
the £350,000 of ord. capital, of
which £56,500, which brought
with it £101,700 of share
premiums, was gathered just
before the close of accounts. The
new money was wanted for more
diesel shovels and better drilling
and crushing equipment, etc.
The absence of divs. since 1942
was largely because of surplus
earnings being used to pay for
new mechanical equipment, the
aim being to keep costs down.
Overburden removed —it is
one of the biggest problems on
the mining side—ore treated and
average assay values compare
as follows over the last half-
dozen years;—
Sulphide
Waste Ore ', Assay ■,
June, Discarded, Treated, Gold, Copper,
Tons. Tons. Dwt. p.c.
1944 1,148,685 909,200 1.51 0.46
1945 746,361 549,850 2.72 0.67
1946 1,125,792 614,700 2.50 0.56
1947 813,475 794,600 2.44 0.45
1948 1,603,461 572,320 2.29 0.56
1949 1,407,990 770,250 2.33 0.64
Of last term’s sulphides 540,650
tons, assaying 2.95dwt. gold and
0.69 p.c. copper, were put
through No. 1 mill for 54,1010 z.
gold and 3268.5 tons copper, and
No. 2 mill handled 229,600 tons,
averaging o.B6dwt. gold and
0.169 p.c, copper, for 45620 z.
gold and 255.2 tons copper. Re-
coveries at No. 1 mill were 67.9
p.c. gold and 87.1 p.c. copper as
against 66.8 p.c. and 85.5 p.c.
respectively for the previous
year. The smelter turned out
3793.4 tons blister, estimated to
contain 3744.4 tons copper,
62,5150 z. gold and 17,2350 z.
silver —only about 4.4 p.c. of the
blister came from purchased ore.
Mining costs rose, owing to
wage-lifts and higher prices for
materials, but treatment costs
were lower, thanks to bigger
throughput:
r Cost Per Ton —^
1948. 1949.
£ s. d. £ s. d.
Mining—
Total material.. 3 10.1 4 4.5
No. 1 mill ore 15 1.9 17 4.8
Treatment in mills 7 3.4 6 8.0
Smelter, copper.. 42 18 10 35 7 7
Cost of removing overburden
(£258,817) was 4s. lid. a ton as
against 3s. 4d. for the previous
term. During the year 9s. was
added to the weekly basic wage,
which went up by another 3s. a
week on Nov. 1.
Ore reserves and assay values
at June 30 were as follows;
, —Assay
Gold, Copper,
Tons. Dwt. p.c.
Sulphide ore . .5,212,406 4.00 1.98
Indicated material. 1,986,786 1.64 0.47
The indicated material lies
within the perimeter of the open-
cut, extension of which is
expected to make available a
further 983,000 tons of second-
grade ore, averaging I.46dwt.
gold and 0.5 p.c. copper. Pro-
vided costs can be kept within
reasonable limits, the higher gold
price is expected to put about
2.000. tons of overburden,
previously marked down for dis-
card, within the limits of payable
material. Extension of the open-
cut will involve removal of some
14.000. tons waste. And there
is the possibility of still more
pay-ore being disclosed in an
area now being drilled near the
old Sugarloaf mine.
About seven miles from the
opencut boring has disclosed
2,170,000 tons of high-grade (96
p.c. purity) limestone. The co.
is also investigating the possi-
bility of producing elemental
sulphur by the Orkla smelting
process from the big dumps of
pyrites at the mine, A ready
market awaits the product, pro-
vided it can be produced at a
competitive price.
On the basis of last term’s
figures, the lift in the price of
gold would add over £298,000 to
the gross value of gold output.
And the current year’s earnings
will also benefit by a windfall
profit of about £203,000, because
45,0000 z. of last year’s gold was
still unrealised at the refinery at
Sept. 19. Since the close of
accounts two more 11 c.y.
mechanical shovels, making six
in all, have been put to work in
the opencut, which augurs well
for the current year’s through-
put.
The market for the ords.,
which had slipped back to 9s. 9d.
in July, shot up to 16s. following
the lift in the gold price, and
had advanced to 18s. 6d. last
weekend. At 18s. 6d. the return
would be 5.4 p.c. from a 40 p'.c.
div., which, together with the
pref. div., would call for
£161,000, which looks like being
within easy reach.
Placer Development, the big
holding and prospecting co. with
headquarters at Vancouver
(Canada), will pay an interim 25
cents per dollar share, less 15
p.c. Canadian absentee tax, on
December 9. At the current rate
of exchange the div. is worth
Is. 8,6 d. a share Australian cur-
rency. Co. has paid a steady 50
p.c. p.a. on its $789,545 of capi-
tal for the last seven years. Pato
Consolidated, on the Nechi
River, Colombia (S. America),
has been chief contributor to the
pool. Placer’s return from in-
vestments should begin to step-
up now that Asnazu, Pato’s
nextdoor neighbor, and Bulolo
(New Guinea) are back on the
dividend list, and with Coronet
Oil’s three wells on the Andector
leases, Texas (U.S.), gushing
freely and Canadian Explora-
tion handling low-grade but
now-profitable lead-zinc ore
near Selmo (Canada). And the
parent’s income ought to get a
further lift when Nechi Consoli-
dated, downstream from Pato,
gets into its stride, which
shouldn’t be long now. Placer’s
$1 shares, which touched £l4 Is.
on Sydney ’Change in 1948,
were recently offered at £8 ss.
* * * *
Norseman Gold, N.L., at
Norseman (W.A.), is investigat-
ing the possibilities of reopening
the Norseman mine, where
operations were suspended in
February, 1947, when the grade
of mill-feed fell to 2.64dwt. per
ton, now worth 42.65., or 13s.
more than previously. Since the
ore-body then being worked
doesn’t appear to persist below
No. 9 level, prospects depend
largely upon location of another
pay-shoot in the Mararoa reef.
Co. is now working the exten-
sive pyritic ore-bodies in the
Iron King group. The ss. shares
recently advanced from 2s. to
4s. 6d. in the market.
* ♦ * He
With development never far
ahead of the mill and costs at
375. a ton, Renison Associated
Tin continues to profitably treat
the flat-dipping, tin-bearing ore-
bodies on the Renison Bell field,
between Rosebery and Zeehan
(Tas.). For the year to June 30
last 1613 tons overburden, etc.,
was removed, and 11,745 tons
of over 1 p.c. ore was extracted
from the old battery workings
of the Boulder mines. The mill
treated 10,794 tons, averaging
0.94 p.c., for 103 tons concen-
trates, containing 75.83 tons
metallic tin, worth £37,600-odd. !
The profit was £11,284, of which |
a 12i p.c. div. took £6250.
Another 4d. per 4s. share is to
go out on November 30, making
total divs. paid to date £13,542.
The scrip fetches 55., or there-
abouts, in the market.
7 I


■
It must
he
K
tenfold Hospital
Does your Will express
your present wishes?
It may need revision
Make a point of reading your Will to-day
and ask yourself whether it expresses your present
wishes in the light of changed conditions.
If you desire re-assurance on any of its aspects —or
desire to consider a new plan that will ensure the maxi-
mum benefits for your dependents you should discuss
your problems with a senior officer of Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited.
At the same time you would do well to consider the
advantages of appointing
Perpetual Trustee Com-
any Limited as your
Executor and Trustee
alone or jointly with a
relative or friend.
The Company has more
than 62 years experience
in the management of
Estate of many different
kinds. It can help you
to plan your Estate to the
best advantage of your
dependents and will
provide for its efficient
management, when re-
quired to act.
The new plans you make
should be embodied in your
Will by your Solicitor.
Write for the booklet
describing the Company’s
S'
DIRECTORS: •
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C.
(Chairman);
E. R. KNOX;
ALLEN C. LEWIS:
Hon. J. P, ABBOTT:
D. R. LYSAGHT:
SAMUEL HORDERN;
H. V. DOUGLASS,
Managing Director
A. a. ARMYTAOE, Manager
»
TRUST & AGENCY FUNDS
UNDER ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £68,000,000
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OP
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES & OTHERS. ADMINISTRATION ETC.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WAGGA WAGGA, TAMWORTH and ORANGE
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Higher Costs to Slay
To get an idea of what is likely
to happen to costs and prices
over the next few years a lesson
must be learned from the recent
past.
The basic wage, expressed in
terms of depreciating paper-
money, is now more than
60 p.c. higher than before
the war, and the cost of living
is officially calculated at around
56 p.c. higher than in Septem-
ber, 1939. The cost of many
raw materials, especially in
overseas countries, is double or
treble pre-war prices. This ap-
plies to wool, wheat, metals,
meat, dairy products, timber and
woodpulp, among other things.
Significant for Australians is
the fact that wheat and metals,
as well as some other locally-
produced raw materials, are not
allowed to be sold in the Com-
monwealth at world parity. An
idea of what this means in the
way of a delayed-action infla-
tionary bomb may be gathered
from the rise in the cost of
woollen goods that occurred
when the Commonwealth sub-
sidy was removed from woollen
clothing made in Australia.
There was a rise of from 30 to
50 p.c. in the price of many
woollen goods within a few
months. The same sort of thing
could happen to other manufac-
tures, including bread, if world-
parity prices were charged for
materials and foodstuffs the
price of which is now con-
trolled.
Also significant is the fact
that Australia is. mainly depend-
ing for its export income on the
maintenance of profitable prices
for such things as wool, wheat
and metals. Whilst these prices
are high their producers can
afford to pay the high wages
that rule at present and at the
same time allow the Australian
consumer to have his bread and
other things at below world
■ parity. If hard times come there
will be pressure to increase the
home-consumption price of raw
materials and foodstuffs. Be-
fore the war, for instance, the
fixed price of butter was above
the London price, and that was
also the case with sugar. Just
now Australians eat butter that
costs less than in most countries
of the world, and the same ap-
plies to sugar. But there is
little doubt that at the present
time the export price received is
subsidising the cost to the Aus-
tralian consumer.
The prospect of a substantial
fall in the cost of living in Aus-
tralia is not very hopeful, even
though we should be preparing
ourselves, as a matter of or-
dinary prudence, for a drop in
the prices at which we sell our
exports abroad.
It is very hard to reduce
wages once they go up; and
over this century there has
been an almost continuous
increase in wages. The fall
during the depression amounted
to less than 20 p.c.—and
that was taking into account
any adjustments made in ac-
cordance with the Premiers’
Plan. The depression decline
occurred over the years 1931-
1933. In 1934 money-wages
were on the rise again, and by
early 1941 were back to their
1928 level. They have since
soared in keeping with the soar-
ing cost of living.
The Federal Statistician’s in-
dex of money-wages in 1914
was 1081. In 1928 it stood at
1963. By 1933 it had dropped
to 1584. In March, 1941, it was
at 1966, and in December, 1948,
it stood at 3045, and has since
gone higher. It is now at least
three times as high as the 1914
figure, when our credit was
based on golden sovereigns.
Australians, particularly busi-
nessmen, farmers, investors and
prospective home-owners, must
reconcile themselves to the fact
that we are living in an era. of
higher costs and prices than that
of 1939 and that there is no
chance of a general return to
pre-war levels, or anything like
them. The “economics of
scarcity” have induced otherwise-
unjustifiable prices to be paid for
ancient dwellings and old motor-
cars, etc. —prices which would
not be obtainable if new houses
were freely offering even at to-
day’s high costs, and these freak
prices will undoubtedly not last
any longer than the time our
present production depression
continues. But the costs that
go into building a new house are
unlikely to fall more than 20 p.c.
at best, and they may go higher
than they are now before they
start to recede.
For this is an age of political
control of money. The gold
standard is inoperable. It is en-
tirely unlikely that there will
be any attempt to return to a
currency freely convertible into
gold at anything like the pre-
war figure; and it must be re-
membered, in comparing this
post-war scene with the post-
-1914-18 picture, that Britain did
attempt to come back to gold in
1925 at the 1914 rate of 85s. an
ounce, and in doing so at that
time checked the rise in sterling
prices to a considerable extent.
Nowadays Socialist Govern-
ments will continue to seek the
easy way out of any jam caused
by economic circumstances, and
the way they choose is unlikely
to be a deflationary.
Though Socialists, it is hoped,
won’t be with us for ever, we
must prepare for permanently
higher costs. And this will
mean, among many present-day
business managements, that if
the inflated turnovers and in-
comes that were customary
during the war and more re-
cently do not continue, then
higher selling-prices will become
imperative. In a period of grow-
ing competition the changeover
may be difficult to manage.
Courtaulds, Ltd.
Official announcement of a
long-awaited project:
Courtaulds, Ltd., of England,
announce that the negotiations to
establish the first unit of a rayon
industry in Australia are well ad-
vanced.
It is intended to form a company
with a nominal capital of £10,000,000,
which will build factories for the
production of both viscose rayon
yarn for tyres and other industrial
purposes and acetate rayon yarn for
textile purposes. The production of
rayon tyre-yarn in Australia is re-
garded as of high priority by the
Australian Government for strategic
reasons and to save dollars.
It is planned to erect the tyre-yarn
factory on a site at Tomago, N.S.W.
The same site is suitable for the
acetate-yarn factory, but it might be
decided to establish this elsewhere.
The project is sponsored by
Courtaulds, Ltd., and leading Aus-
tralian financial and industrial in-
terests, including the Australian
Mutual Provident Society and the
Colonial Sugar Refining Co., Ltd.
Courtaulds, Ltd., are taking a sub-
stantial interest in the new Australian
c 0.,. but the greater part of the share-
capital will be raised in Australia.
some of which will be available to
the public by means of an issue to
be underwritten by Messrs. E. L.
and C. Baillieu and lan Potter and
Co., of Melbourne, and Messrs.
Hordern, Utz and Bode, of Sydney.
Consent of the Treasurer of the
Commonwealth of Australia has been
obtained to the issue of the necessary
capital.
It is hoped that particulars of this
issue can soon be published.
To what extent Australian
private investors will be allowed
to participate in the public issue
remains to be seen. The whole
scheme has been delayed for
more than a year, principally
because N. S. Wales Premier
McGirr has not been co-
operative. Lord Nuffield also
struck trouble in establishing a
Morris factory in N. S. Wales
when McKell was Premier.
“Labor” Governments are hard
for productive industry to
deal with, as the English coal
interests found when trying to
arrange for the development of
the Blair Athol coal deposits in
Queensland. Hanlon has never
explained that failure to every-
one’s satisfaction.
The Sharemarket
Though the market for British
Consols has sunk to a 4 p.c.
basis (as against 3i p.c. for long-
term securities in Australia), the
London market for industrials
remains strong, as in the Com-
monwealth. British investors are
hopeful of a change of Govern-
ment within a few months, and
equities in private enterprise are
favored as a consequence.
Australian sharemarkets were
firm last week. Industrials have
been picking up, though these
still remain depressed, as a
whole, when compared with the
prices of last January. B.H.P-
at 48s. 6d. or thereabouts is the
equivalent of about 565. before
rights to the new issue were taken
up, compared with a highest
price this year of approximately
60s. The new shares sold at 265.
or better prior to payment of the
ss. instalment on November 5.
Pastoral shares are very strong.
The affluence of these concerns,
which started with the post-war
rise in wool prices, seems to have
been prolonged by the devalua-
tion of sterling; but there is no
knowing how long the Australian
pound will stay at its present dis-
count with the English pound.
Pastoral scrip is substantially
higher than at the beginning of
this year; most other issues are
down on early-1949 quotes.
Among retailers, David Jones
shares have remained steady at
595. in spite of the dropping of


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
Oh today* s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
62 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
DRY SMOKING
dfg
THE BRITISH
BUTTNER PIPE
with highly-porous ceramic filter.
No breaking-in, bite, burn, wet
dottle or waste.
19/6 ea. Spare Filters 1/3 ea.
Buttner Plastic Pouches (5/6)
and Pipe Reamers (5/3).
Obtainable at: Boans Ltd. and T.
Sharp, Perth. Nat Solomons and
Harris Scarfe Ltd., Adelaide. Alstons,
Dammans, and J. Frost, Melbourne.
Farmers, Anthony Horderns, Grace
Bros., Peapes and Prior Bros., Sydney.
R. Black, Queen St., Brisbane. Or
direct from the Distributors—
CHARLES WHETXON Pty. Ltd.,
156 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Illustrated leaflet on request.
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest Invention by Dx. L.
Barrere brings to rupture sufferers an
entirely new method of control, the
result of 40 years’ practice and im-
provements, proved completely suc-
cessful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the
hand when placed flat upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, hold the intestine
in its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
B ABBE BIS DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 26p), 248 Elizabeth St., Sydney
Tht
Union Bank
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
,( Incorporated in England)
and a century of experience
have resulted in an organisation
providing every modern
banking service.
ESTABLISHED 1837
Branches throughout Australia & New Zealand
THE “WELD CAT” MONTHLY
Economic, Market and Financial Conditions.
Company Accounts and Mining Activities.
Price: 2/- per single copy—22/6 a year, post free.
Assets Exceed
£2,750,000
The A.C.A.
for Security
THE
A.C.A. POLICIES
ARE
GOOD POLICIES
AUSTRALASIAN CATHOLIC
ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(INCORPORATED IN N.S.W.)
A.C.A. Building. 66 King Street, Sydney
Call, Write or Ring. Telephone BX 2165
BRANCH OFFICES
IN ALL STATES
D. J. MOONEY
Managing Director
the bonus, making this year’s dis-
tribution 10 p.c., compared with
12j p.c. in 1947-48. Farmer ords.
have maintained a figure some-
where near this year’s highest
price; 475. was paid last week,
though 535. was recorded in
1948. The div. has remained
steady, although profits were
lower during the year to June 30.
In Melbourne, Myer £1 ords.
have been dealt in at 48s. They
are now being split into ss, de-
nominators. The road of all re-
tailers has been made more diffi-
cult by the cut in profit-margins
allowed by the Prices people and
by growing competition, as well
as by more rapid fashion-changes
these days.
As iq Britain, the prospect
ahead of the Australian share-
market depends a great deal
upon the result of the forthcom-
ing election. At present this
is no country, politically, for
industrial development. The
Socialists are incapable of
carrying out their own pro-
gramme, and in the meantime
they are obstructing legitimate
private enterprise, all the while
allowing anarchy in key trade-
unions to continue. This country
will have to swing away from
Socialistic theory before Aus-
tralian industries really get a
chance to do their best for con-
sumers and shareholders.
The “Argus,” Melbourne
Melbourne is adjusting its
spectacles to get the new
“Argus” into focus.
The new pattern of control is
rapidly taking shape. With the
death last month of Errol Knox
(who had been sole managing-
director until the British “Daily
Mirror” bought into the com-
pany this year, when he be-
came a joint managing-director
with S. R, Elliott), and with the
resignations, also last month, of
two other “old” directors, the
board has been reduced to five
members, of whom three are
nominees of the British com-
pany. One of these is Mr.
Elliott, who now becomes the
managing-director.
The two resignations were
those of Mr. J. B. Aitken
(former chairman) and Colonel
Allan Spowers, who had both
sat on the board since the
“Argus” became a public coim
pany 13 years ago. According
to a Melbourne “Herald” re-
port, they have resigned after
“a conflict of opinion about the
paper’s changed political policy.”
A broader and less intense
political outlook, if not actual
indulgence towards the Canberra
Government, has already be-
come apparent in the “Argus,”
and the marks of its new Lon-
don affiliations also seem evi-
dent in the tendency towards
“popularisation.”
H. G. Bartholomew, the chair-
man of Daily Mirror News-
papers, Ltd., has himself joined
the “Argus” board. And the
British interest has been turned
into an absolute controlling one
by the issue to its nominees of
another 345,000 ordinary £1
shares at par. Paid capital has
now reached the full authorised
amount of £1,000,000 (including
£300,000 preference and pre-
ferred ord.), of which the Lon-
don group owns about £670,000
(all ordinary).
Two “old” directors still sit-
ting on the board are Herbert
Taylor and R. F. Sanderson.
Mr. Taylor is a former president
of the Associated Chamber of
Commerce of Australia, and has
held office in the Liberal party.
Mr. Sanderson is a former presi-
dent of the Chamber of Manu-
factures.
The “Argus,” under its
former management, was keenly
interested in rotary color-offset,
and big plans for rotary color-
printing by means of the AUers
process were in hand.
“Organised Scarcity”
New Zealand businessmen are
clamoring for stocks to cope
with demands of the Christmas
spending spree, but they’re not
making much headway. Maori-
landers who have seen Sydney
and Melbourne shops bulging
with goods return home critical
of the show in their own towns ;
but there’s nothing much busi-
ness can do about it. With goods
held back by production bottle-
necks, delays, restrictions, high
costs and price-controls and un-
checked inflation still swelling
the monetary stream the Yule-
tide outlook is less alluring than
a year ago—and it was patchy
then.
Thousands of Maorilanders
who want new cars, refrigera-
tors, carpets and a long list of
other scarcities just wait and
hope. Only motorists with cars
to trade-in at give-away prices,
which put a few hundred notes
within handy reach of distribu-
tors, have a chance for new
models, and odds are that this
bargaining will go more against
buyers as cars grow scarcer.
This pinpoints the problem in
M.L.’s unbalanced market,
where most-wanted lines sell as
quickly as they reach retailers
and are as scarce as hen’s teeth
most of the time. Import
barriers aren’t the only snag, be-
cause M.L. factories are the
source for a swag of goods that
are never plentiful these days;
so M.L.’s full-employment 40-
hour week policy of Labor-
Socialists must be put in the
dock. Understaffing and low
performance in factories have
been a thorn in the flesh, but
these would not have under-
mined production if moderate
incentive had been there. Con-
trols must be held the chief
offenders, for they hold trade in
a straitjacket, rob it of just re-
wards and divert resources to
pampered industries. Inflation,
suppressed at many points,
festers underneath.
Iron from N.Z. Sands?
Zero hour in long-planned
tests of N.Z.’s ironsands arrived
early in September, and Maori-
landers are eagerly awaiting re-
sults, In charge of the tests was
Prof. Lemoine, metallurgist from
the University of Paris, and
director of a London firm, with
a smelting technician from Nor-
way as his righthander. To give
these experts something to bite
on, a supply of “sinter” (con-
centrated sand) was made ready
for the electric furnace to yield
80 tons of basic pig-iron.
Onekaka, scene of the tests,
has been the graveyard of M.L.’s
past hopes of establishing an iron
industry, but latest research has
buoyed up confidence. If the
electric furnace does the trick
Maorilanders will §ee a rich
store of wealth in great stretches
of black ironsand along scores
of miles of its Tasman-washed
coastline, particularly down
Taranaki way, where scientists of
the D.S.I.R. (N.Z.’s opposite-
number to Australia’s C.5.1.R.0.)
were let loose months before the
crucial hour.
In some places D.S.I.R.
niep found good prospects
in the glittering dunes, but
the richest areas were on the
wet beaches. In a narrow belt
on the North Taranaki shore,
not far from New Plymouth,
was an estimated half-million
tons of concentrate in 1,120,000
tons of ironsand. High-grade
sand concentrate free from sul-
phur and other impurities Con-
tains up to 50 p.c. of iron, nine
to ten p.c. of titanium dioxide,
nearly 0.4 p.c. of vanadium
pentoxide, and quantities of
silicon, phosphorus and other
elements. Pure titanium is 30
p.c. stronger than steel and only
half its weight, resists corrosion
and rivals stainless steel and
light aluminium alloys. If the
gateway is opened to set up an
ironsand industry reserves of
raw material will depend partly
on nature’s capacity to keep up
the supply of sand as the in-
dustry digs it away.


Women’s Letters
From Melbourne
Melbourne’s variable spring weather
prevented Flemington on Cup Day being
a fashion parade for the lighter fineries.
The Governor’s lady’s ensemble was an
aqua-blue silk frock, hand-screened in
brown figures; the front brim of her
large chocolate-brown straw hat was
caught back with a brown and aqua-
blue ribbon bow. A pale lilac-blue crepe
jacket-suit, the skirt peplum-pleated, was
worn by Jeanette Brooks with white ac-
cessories and a large white ribbon-
trimmed straw hat. Mrs. R. W.
Spraggett’s jacket-suit was of blue,
pink and green patterned silk; her navy
straw hat was swathed with pink tulle,
with two pink roses set under the brim.
Anne Spraggett’s black-and-white-pat-
terned frock was topped by a wide-
brimmed black straw hat. A navy-and-
white-striped taffeta frock and a navy
reefer-jacket, which had collar and cuffs
of the striped taffeta, comprised Patricia
Edge’s outfit; her large white straw hat
had an edge and trimming of navy.
Mrs. T. T. Hollway’s navy-and-white
jacket-suit and bonnet-shaped hat in navy
edged with white grosgrain made smart
combination. Wife of the U.S. Ambas-
sador, Mrs. Pete Jarman, allied a tobacco-
brown skirt and beige jacket; her large
hat was in matching brown straw and
trimmed with autumn-toned roses. Mrs.
S. J. Fletcher, wife of the U.S. Consul-
General, was in a navy ensemble and
matching hat. Mrs. Iris Clarke added a
mushroom hat in natural straw trimmed
with yellow flowers to her black suit.
Mrs. A. G. Silk’s cherry-red straw hat
matched the collar and lapels of her black
wool suit. A tiny white coif cap was
worn by Mrs. Everard Baillieu with a
swinging coat of pastel-blue shantung.
Mrs. Geoffrey Grimwade’s suit and large
hat were black,
Keera, only child of the Ron Camerons,
of Bentleigh, is the Miss Sutherland
Homes candidate in the Miss Australia
Quest. An interior designer, Keera is
an expert horsewoman. A cabaret supper
dance at Eaton Hall, Prahran, on Novem-
ber 17 will raise money to help her candi-
dature in the Quest. Photo by John
Warlow.
Sartorially as well as meteorologically
Ladies’ Day at Flemington was a wash-
out. Tent-coats of duvetyn and velour,
raincoats and rain-boots swamped
chiffons and silks. Despite the conditions
Lady Brooks contrived smartness in a
belted camelhair coat and beige frock ;
beige feathers trimmed her small dark-
brown straw hat. Her daughter Jeanette
contrasted her dark-green coat with a
claret-colored off-the-face hat. Patricia
Edge’s suit and small hat were navy. Lady
Blarney’s olive-green hat had an arum-
lily trimming. A small black-feather-
trimmed hat was worn by Mrs. John Cain
with her black frock and hip i -length
black jacket.
The sun relented and chased the clouds
away for the final day of the Spring
Carnival at Flemington, but although
racegoers were chary of getting into sum-
mer outfits, they effected some gaiety with
hats. Lady Brooks’s, of blue shiny straw,
sported a bow of matching taffeta rib-
bon ; her wool suit was pervenche blue.
Jeanette Brooks wore a dark-green velvet
beret finished with a tassel with her light-
grey suit and gunmetal shoes. A cluster
of cocq feathers was set at one side of
the pastel-blue felt hat Patricia Edge wore
with a matching coat. Mrs. W. Hill
Smith, over from Adelaide, wore a full-
skirted navy coat with collar and lapels
of brown fur; her brown felt cloche hat
was finished with matching veiling. Mrs.
Hector Livingstone added a small hat of
white plumage to her tailored navy suit.
Mrs. John White’s outfit was a Chris-
tian Dior model of black faille with wide
white lapels and cuffs ; her black hat had
a wide brim. English visitor Elizabeth
Lewis wore a navy faille coat over a blue-
and-white silk frock; her small white
straw hat was flower-trimmed. Under
her navy coat Lady Snow wore a navy-
and-white checked taffeta frock with a
small white hat. Mrs. Norman Bush was
in a light beige tailored coat and a small
natural-straw hat finished with rust-shot
taffeta ribbon. Cobblestone-grey tweed
fashioned Mrs. C. P. Thomson’s suit;
her wide-brimmed hat combined black
straw and taffeta. Mrs. C. M. Guiney,
for whom Judge and Mrs. Foster gave
a party at the Hotel Australia during the
week, wore a navy-and-white checked
wool suit and a beige felt hat trimmed
with navy taffeta bows. Mrs. Norman
Lynch’s deep-blue wool bolero suit was
served with sables and a pastel-pink
straw hat.
Over 130 attended the Toorak College
Old Grammarians’ annual luncheon at
the Victoria Coffee Palace. Tables were
gay with red roses and lily-of-the-valley,
which had been garnered from the
gardens of committee members. Guest'
of-honor was headmistress Mrs. D.
Wardle, who has just returned in the
Himalaya after six months in England.
Lady Herring, who is a member of the
school council as well as being an “Old
Girl,” was present, and also in the official
party was Miss Isabel Hamilton, former
principal of the college. Presiding over
the luncheon was Mrs. Stuart Love ; other
office-bearers present were vice-presidents
Mrs. A. J. Phillips and Ann Mclntyre,
and secretary Alison Eldridge.
Herbert Pacini, chairman of the Vic-
torian board of the Miss Australia Quest,
was host at a Hotel Windsor cocktail-
party to welcome home Beryl James.
Mrs. Pacini wore a grey Persian-lamb
jacket over a black frock. Mrs. T. T.
Hollway’s brown ermine coat was worn
with a small flower-trimmed. hat. Mrs.
Wallace Mitchell was in a black ensemble.
Mrs. Margaret Saker, organiser of the
Quest in Victoria, matched her grey suit
with a velvet-trimmed felt hat. Her
daughter, Mrs. Elizabeth Taylor, also in
a grey suit, topped it with a bonnet-
shaped natural straw hat, flower-trimmed.
Patricia, younger daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. A. B. Schumann, of East Malvern,
has announced her engagement to Nigel
Hugh, younger son of Mr. and Mrs.
Hugh Peck. Pat, who is a cadet on a
morning newspaper, will be bridesmaid
to her sister Norma, who is to be married
on the 22nd of this month at St. John’s,
East Malvern.
At the,buffet-dinner party at the Ronald
Notts’ Toorak home the hostess wore a
black frock with a draped bodice and
skirt. Mrs. Dion Goodsall’s hat with its
wheat-gold ospreys set off her black frock.
Mrs. John Chaldjian added a wide-
brimmed hat of black satin edged with
black tulle and finished with jet beads to
her black frock. Smartly gowned in
emerald-green shantung and wearing a
small hat of gold tissue, Mrs. J. M. Shaw
was celebrating her birthday and talking
of her forthcoming trip to England. A
black taffeta frock patterned in white
scrolls was worn by Mrs. A. Keegan with
her silver-fox cape. Madame George
Amaud’s tiny eggshell hat of black velvet
ornamented with gold beads was notable.
From Sydney
The Governor, Lieut.-General John
Northcott, and Mrs. Northcott gave an
afternoon-party at Government House
last week in honor of Lady Julius. This
was in the way of farewell, for Lady
Julius will soon retire from the office of
State Commissioner for Girl Guides, the
duties of which she has so ably carried
out for 10 years. Among the guests were
many country Guide Commissioners in
Sydney for the yearly G.G. meeting and
the Commissioners’ conference. At Mrs.
Northcott’s suggestion to the conference
Lady Julius will become a vice-president.
The State ballroom was vivid with
flowers —red and white, the school colors
—when members of the Fort-street Old
Girls’ High Union gathered for their
annual dinner. Fanny Cohen, the school’s
attractive headmistress, wore regal-
looking amethystine chiffons, and sat at
a toji table surrounded by former pupils
of the school beside the Harbor Bridge.
Well-knowns present were Miss A. E.
Turner, ever popular with her former
pupils, Elizabeth Bannan, now warden of
the women students at the Teachers’
College, Dorothy Day, secretary of
the union, Mrs. E. Hodgkins, and Mrs.
L. McAlister, daughter of one of
the early pupils of Fort-street who
later became its headmaster. Greeted
and farewelled by many was Mrs. Claude
Massey, whose husband till recently has
been Commissioner for Australia in
Singapore, and who goes off this month
to Egypt, where Mr. Massey will be
Minister for Australia. Every one of the
160 “old” girls present commented with
admiration on the flower arrangements,
the work of Mrs. Jauncey.
Passing by; “You’re very hoarse this
morning.” “Yes, it’s Cup Day!”
The Ceremonial Beating of Retreat is
always a thrilling and spectacular
event. Presented in the grounds of
Victoria Barracks, it draws clouds of
guests —nobody who gets a card ever
seems to refuse. Now the cards are out
once more, and the great date is Novem-
ber 11, time 5 p.m. The Governor,
Lieut-General John Northcott, will be
present. The G.O.C. Eastern Command
has also sent out cards of invitation to
an Army Tattoo. This will be held at
the Royal Agricultural Showground on
Thursday, Friday and Saturday, Novem-
ber 24, 25 and 26.
This Norton Trevaire photograph is of
pretty Susan King, whose engagement to
Dr. Roger Dunlop has lately been an-
nounced. Susan is the only daughter of
Colonel and Mrs. Michael King, formerly
of Pakistan, now of Double Bay. Dr.
Roger Dunlop is the only son of Dr. and
Mrs. Leslie Dunlop, of Point Piper.
Susan on her mother’s side is a young
descendant of the Australia-wide famed
Macarthur-Onslow family.
Every club in Sydney ran an outsize in
Associates’ parties for Cup Day. Out to
Elanora the Sydney women rushed, out
to the Royal Sydney Golf Club at Rose
Bay, to the Australian Golf Club, to the
different yachting clubs. To keep pace
with their sisters at Flemington, the girls
who stayed at home wore their most
shining plumage. The Royal Sydney
Yacht Squadron, at Kirribilli, bristled
with radios and the verandahs and
lounges, even the men’s newly-decorated
south lounge, were simply bursting with
associates and their friends.
Tea was served in the billiard-room, the
walls of which are hung with colored
portraits (small size) of ardent yachtsmen.
One of the prettiest frocks was worn by
Mrs. Don Taylor. It was of softest grey
sheer and with it was worn a small hat
in shining grey straw. A soft grey-blue
ensemble was worn by Mrs. John Woods,
who had in her party Mrs. P. Kearns and
Mrs. O’Brien. Mrs. A. FitzHardinge’s
pastel-pink suit was noted, Mrs., David
Garment and Mrs. Frank Louat wore
with their summer outfits large-size white
hats. Mrs. F. Howe was smart in navy.
Miss Ruby Adams’s long pearl ear-rings
were the right finish to her aqua linen
suit. Berry-red was Mrs. Waterman’s
small hat of chip straw.
The far-famed hospital of St. John of
Jerusalem, which has its roots in the
days of the Crusades, had for matron for
15 years an Australian —a Queenslander,
to be exact. She is Miss G. Peyton Jones,
holidaying in Australia, In Sydney till
next week she then goes to Tasmania,
This is an ophthalmic hospital, and, in
the years before the Arab-Jew struggle
(when the hospital was in the direct line
of conflict), there were 1000 patients
treated daily. The work is being carried
on in Watson House, in Jerusalem.
An appeal for funds to restore
the badly - damaged and depleted
hospital is being made by the Hos-
pitallers of the seven Priories of
St. John, which are established through-
out the British Commonwealth. Former
Governor of N.S.W., Lord Wakehurst, is
Prior and a Bailiff Grand Cross ; and our
former Governor-General, the Duke of
Gloucester, is Grand Prior of the Order
of St. John, of Jerusalem.
The Victoria League’s party to fare-
well Rear-Admiral and Mrs. H. B. Farn-
comb was quite an affair. Three admirals
were bagged for the function: Admiral
Farncomb, Admiral Moore and Admiral
Stevenson. Another important —this time
of the Merchant Navy—was Sir James
Bisset, who was accompanied by Lady
Bisset. The Trocadero was filled
with Leaguers come to offer good
wishes to the departing admiral and his
wife, who have taken so active an interest
in the affairs of the League. He has been
a Councillor, and she a member of the
executive and hospitality committees.
The Kelso King lady and Mrs. Clive
Teece were the hostesses for the after-
noon. Mrs. G. D. Moore was to have
been another, but could not come owing
to her mother’s illness. The Governor’s
daughter, Elizabeth Northcott, was a
guest, and in her party was Sheila Collett.
The Farncombs leave on November 14
in the Aorangi, for Washington. There
he will be head of the Australian Joint
Service Staff in U.S.
Adrian Holland is one of those pianists
worth their weight in uranium to the
singer. He has a genius for accompany-
ing, and played for all finalists at the New-
castle Mobil Quest Concert. He has
played accompaniments for Melba and
Clara Butt (he must have been only a
stripling then), for Maggie Teyte of the
clear and rounded note, for Elizabeth
Schumann, Tauber and many more of the
great in song.
Trudy Daunt, of Melbourne, Joan
Sutherland and Patricia Church, basso
William Smith, from Newcastle (though
he is now working with Pauline
Bindley in Melbourne), Allan Ferris
and Ron Jackson, the winner of
the Quest, twinkled modestly as the sing-
ing stars at the Mobil Quest party.
Publicity man Alan O’Neill was the
complete unofficial introducer. Lord
Mayor O’Dea and Mrs. O’Dea, Roland
Foster, who is Ron Jackson’s teacher, and
Mrs. Roland were among the guests in
the Australia ballroom. Mr. W. L.
Orchard, general-manager of the Vacuum
Oil company, which has sponsored the
Quest, and Mrs. Orchard were a grand
host and hostess. Mrs. Orchard’s hat
lives in the memory. It was a small, head-
fitting pastel-pink felt. From underneath
the softly-folded back brim came a burst
of blue-green heron feather.
Sydney artist Elaine Haxton has a lively
series of color drawings decorating the
kiddies’ end of the dining-hall in the
Himalaya, now on its maiden voyage to
Australia. They centre around the
P. & O. pups, Henry, Victoria and
George, and Sinbad, the ship’s cat. Three
spacious scenes of the outback painted
by John Loxton, and an unusual table-
lamp in the shape of a pottery vase based
on an aborigine design, give atmosphere
to the Australia-room. Panellings in the
main lounges feature Queensland maple,
maple burr and eucalyptus. Himalaya 111
is so vast that a traveller needn’t see any-
one he wished to avoid twice in the one
day except, maybe, at meal-times. There’s
a library of over 1000 books, and a
children’s play-room replete with all forms
of amusement, even a model navigating
bridge with a moving steering-wheel. The
P. & O. chairman, Sir William Currie,
and Lady Currie were passengers in the
liner’s first England-Australia run.
Radio author Gwen Meredith opened
the exhibition of ceramic art and water-
color sketches now on view at Legacy
Club, 167 Elizabeth-street. The pottery
and china are the work of Mabel Barling
and her students, and Legacy rakes off
only the shillings for entrance. Still, the
first afternoon resulted in £5. The show
for which Legacy-worker Edith Prior had
made arrangements before her illness is
set out with charm. On screens behind
the tables on which the exhibits stand are
flights of pottery swallows, bluebirds
and other winged friends. Mabel Barling's
zebra, Mrs. Clement Chapman’s spaniels,
dachshunds and dogs of less degree, a
donkey-cart done by Mrs. Hogue, another
donkey with panniers filled with roses
are among the many attractions.
Witches and broomsticks, will-o’-the-
wisps and fortune-tellers made for the
Trocadero when the Kindergarten Union
held its ball. The six or seven hundred
dancers could have their fortunes told in
between the numbers, could drink love
potions or divert themselves according to
other Hallowe’en traditions. A group
from the Sydney University Dramatic
Society provided the floor-show—the
witches’ scene from Macbeth; flame and
smoke for the cauldron came from the
burning of powdered ice. Mrs. F. A.
Paton was the president of the ball com-
mittee. The Free Kindergartens benefit.


Because they appreciate
9 s own
blend ~ of fine
Virginia leaf, men and
women who insist
on quality are
enthusiastic
Capstan
smokers
Capstan
m
That’s why it’s always
TIME FOR A CAPSTAN
THE EMPIRE’S FAVOURED CIGARETTE
Hobdays
ahead/
a
! * >
ria
.pa s
$3
-n-Q.
C5S>
Ptlft
r
W,
/#•* . „
freuife-fi* 6
mmt
/00Z dc/sfraS/a/t C6a*rfi/bf/sofitie &aef
A PRODUCT OF THE OLYMPIC TYRE & RUBBER CO. LTD.
0T29.16.49
SUNDRY SHOWS
Art and Innocence.
The lady who walked ahead
of The Bulletin in the crowd
at the exhibition by Dobell,
Drysdale, Nolan, Friend and
Justin O’Brien at Sydney Mac-
quarie Galleries darted at the
preliminary study for Dobell’s
portrait of Margaret Olley and
cried delightedly “Oh, Sidney
Nolan! I can tell it at a
glance!”
Then she said the sketch was
“hideous,” which was unkind;
and then she said it hadn’t any
face, which was true enough,
seeing that it was only a rough
lay-in of the portrait in mono-
chrome.
Mr. Nolan’s “Dead Duck
Mine,” meanwhile, was hanging
tranquilly on the opposite wall,
perhaps hoping that it would be
mistaken for a Dobell. Inside
the painting the dead duck itself
hung upside-down in the sky,
and beneath it Mr. Nolan’s
comic miner stood to attention
among dilapidated but colorful
machinery and scenery.
And while one marvelled at
the lady’s engaging innocence
and thought it altogether the
wrong mood in which to inspect
Dobell’s technical machinery, it
seemed an appropriate enough
spirit in which to study Sidney
Nolan. For Nolan himself par-
takes of the same inconsequence.
And so does Donald Friend,
in such large, hollow fantasies
as “The Market.” And so, in a
different way—in the sense that
he does not go beyond the
decorative —does Justin O’Brien
in “Boy in Costume.” And so,
in yet another way, perhaps
with a redeeming grimness, does
Russell Drysdale in the coarse
caricature of “Man Reading a
Paper.” Certainly it is a more
sophisticated innocence; a de-
liberate playfulness or clumsi-
ness ; and yet there is a pervad-
ing shallowness, of spirit and of
technique. Paint itself, merely
by its weight and depth and
subtlety, can reflect the corres-
ponding qualities of mind, and
there is no weight in Sidney
Nolan’s ripolin.
But Drysdale has more than
caricature to offer in this exhi-
bition and more than the anony-
mous red paint of “Man Feed-
ing His Dogs.” “Road with
Rocks,” bought by the N. S,
Wales National Gallery, has
something of the massiveness of
a Lloyd Rees, and, if its hard
edges are coarsely observed,
there are both depth and drama
in the red-gold desert sky.
“Home Town,” with an unusual
softness and subtlety in the sky,
gives a striking impression of
distance in its empty road
which, instead of expressing the
characteristic Drysdale desola-
tion, seems rushing to infinity.
Donald Friend, too, has
more than empty fantasy to
offer. There is technical quality
in some of the drawings of
natives, and “Mother and
Child” has both grace and emo-
tional depth. Justin O’Brien
goes beyond the merely decora-
tive in “Self Portrait” and “A
French Prisoner,” but goes on
a visit to Modigliani.
The exhibition, in which only
five paintings are catalogued for
sale, shows the work these
painters have been doing since
1937. Dobell has no recent
work on view except the sketch
for the Margaret Olley portrait,
which was hardly worth exhibit-
ing, but there is no doubt about
the quality of the “Irish Youth”
and the portrait of Scotty
Allan. Nor is there any doubt
about how overwhelmingly
solidity of technique and sin-
cerity of observation, by no
means incompatible with a
humorous outlook, outweigh an
innocent frivolity.
Sculpture and Knot.
Curious loops in copper, wood
and stone at an exhibition of
sculpture at David Jones’s Gal-
lery, Sydney, strangling them-
selves on the walls or writhing
on pedestals, inevitably give the
impression that Australian
sculpture is tying itself up in
knots ; and this impression is
intensified by the signs every-
where of limiting conventions.
Paul Beadle, for instance,
though he entitles his pieces
“Mother and Child” or, simply,
“Figure,” is obviously working
in the medieval religious conven-
tion and sculpting Madonnas
and Crucifixions. Lyndon Dads-
well, whose people are of the
popular pinheaded variety, is
working in the convention of
Henry Moore.
The works in themselves are
not unattractive. Margaret
Hinder’s garden sculpture in
sandstone flows in and out of
itself in an oddly fascinating
rhythm ; Dadswell, alone among
the exhibitors, is able to con-
trol a group; and Beadle’s
“Figure” has not only the silvery
sheen of pearwood to recom-
mend it but a certain macabre
and lugubrious power.
But, ancient or modern, a
convention is a convention —and
a kind of paralysis. When all
the people who are born in stone
and wood turn out pinheaded
and streamlined it is time to
make a change. And a sculptor
who could express himself
powerfully in realistic terms
would probably make a sensa-
tion in Sydney today.
Some movement towards
realism, away from the conven-
tions of the mind to the drama
of character and the grace or
strength of nature, is to be seen
in the exhibition. Beadle has a
pleasant portrait of a boy;
Leonard Shillen, besides an ex-
tremely dejected “torso” in the
contemporary convention, has
an amiable turtle ... perhaps not
quite animated enough even for
a sandstone turtle.
The sculptor * who seems the
least hampered by conventions
and the most sure of himself is
Gerald Lewers, who has a sand-
stone “Bird Bath,” a wooden
“Ant,” a slinky “Torso” in black
bogwood, a “Plough” in beauti-
fully-polished limestone and a
serpentine “Snail.” The 'ant
lacks life and drama ; yet it is
an independent creation instead
of an exercise in a convention.
There are possibilities in ants;
but the possibilities of pin-
headed figures and abstract
knots of copper really seem to
have been exhausted.
"One Wild Oat."
After a very good run with
Coward’s “Present Laughter”—
which was a very good show —
Sydney Palace has switched to
Vernon Sylvane’s “One Wild
Oat,” described as a “comedy
farce.” That is probably a fair
enough description, although the
piece might be more accurately
called an extended vaudeville
act of the kind that Mo, George
Wallace and company have put
over so well at Sydney Tiv.
The monument of strength in
the Palace show is Arthur
Rigby, a comedian who speaks
as much with his hands and
bodily contortions as he does
with his mouth; apart from his
own particular and not incon-
siderable comedic talents he has
some pleasant shades of W. C.
Fields about him. As a genial
blackmarketeer with a son who
wants to but can’t marry the
young lady of his choice because
her father, a sanctimonious little
solicitor, doesn’t approve of the
young man’s family, Mr, Rigby
contrives to keep most of the
cast in pother of some sort and
the audience laughing its collec-
tive head off.
Malcolm Phillips, producer of
the show, plays the solicitor
with an almost exasperating
primness and with a sing-song
voice that seems to echo right
out of “The Mikado.” He is at
his most amusing when Mr.
Rigby surges up behind him to
bully and blackmail him with
the one wild oat he sowed in
an otherwise uneventful youth.
Like most vaudeville pro-
grammes the play has its
vacuums, but two scenes at least
—Mr. Rigby playing Mrs.
Phillips and Mr. Rigby playing
Mr, Phillips, solicitor—make up
for any of the voids. With the
exception of Jessica Page and
Minnie Love the rest of the cast
are not particularly strong on
comedy, but all they have to do
is be bounced around by Mr.
Rigby, and most of them bounce
very well.
Elisabeth Schwarzkopf sang
her swansong to Melbourne at
the Town Hall in one of the
most delightful recitals heard
for a long time, and it was pos-
sible to enjoy every item on the
programme and impossible to
say whether this one was better
than that one.
* * * *
The four string players of
Musica Viva Robert Pikler
and Edward Cockman, violins;
Theo Salzman, ’cello; and
Richard Goldner, viola —
emerged with great credit from
the long ordeal of Beethoven’s
great B Flat Major Quartet, Op.
130, given at Sydney Con., in
which they substituted the tre-
mendous original Grosse Fuge in
place of the usual sixth move-
ment, giving that as a separate
item: The Allegro assai alia
tedesca abounded in high spirits.
in almost startling contradistinc-
tion to the harrowing poignancy
of the Cavatina, which comprises
some of the noblest pages in
this medium that the Master of
Bonn ever penned. The work is
not an easy one to listen to, with
its abandonment of most of the
recognised formalities of quartet
construction and its thematic
and rhythmic subtleties; at
times the modulations seem
stark and forbidding. But
the various sections were woven
together by a master hand. The
Mozart E Flat Piano Trio, in
which Maureen Jones presided
at the keyboard, is a warmly
vital little work, full of grace-
fulness and the elegancies, and
in this the three revelled in play-
ing that was at once crisp, sure
and precise.
* # ♦ ♦
The Sydney Town Hall con-
cert given by five of the Mobil
Quest finalists —the winner of
the £lOOO first-prize, Sydney
bass-baritone Ronal Jackson,
was unable to appear because of
laryngitis—demonstrated a re-
markably high standard of sing-
ing and interpretative powers.
Allan Ferris, a tenor with an
easy style, sang “O Land En-
chanting” from Meyerbeer’s
“L’Africana” with rare judg-
ment, and he injected a banter-
ing humor into Malotte’s “David
and Goliath,” a far-from-bibli-
cal account of the famous fight.
William Smith, a true basso of
good quality and range, sang
operatic numbers by Mozart and
Rossini with plenty of spirit,
Joan Sutherland’s rich dramatic
soprano was used to the best
advantage in Santuzza’s
Romance fr o m “Cavalleria
Rusticana”; Patricia Church
sang arias by Donizetti and
Thomas, gaining good effect
after a slight initial uncertainty;
Trudy Daunt, the Victorian con-
tralto, showed excellent promise
of better work in “Softly Awakes
My Heart” and Handel’s
“Largo.”


PETER POPOFF
By JONH FOUNTAIN
“The Russians came through the snow in long, grey
hobbling lines, like a mob of starving sheep . .
5 BEING Anton the Russian in
Martin-place reminded me at once
of Peter, whom I had seen last in
Upper Silesia, full of dark self-pity
and shamefaced goodwill, waving a
lugubrious goodbye as we, the lucky ones,
marched out through the Stalag gates,
j MET Peter first at a party at King’s
* Cross. It wasn’t much of a party; or,
rather, by certain standards of conduct it
was a good party—very lively-—but the
people who attended it weren’t up to
much. No friends of mine , , . And,
Peter assured me vehemently later, no
friends of his, either. Peter and I, having
separately and inexplicably arrived, intro-
duced ourselves—“ Campbell, Joe Camp-
bell,” and “Peter Mcßae.” We were the
only soldiers in a noisy crowd of civilians
and one red-headed sailor.
Peter looked smart. His uniform was
tailor-fitted—a great contrast to niy own
floppy affair—and Peter had everything:
cloth gaiters, slouch hat, Australias,
shoulder lanyard, leather-guarded wristlet
watch; and a lance-corporal’s solitary
stripe. The one thing missing was a
swagger-stick. The complete soldier,
equipped for war. He looked like a
soldier, too. Not tall, but very blocky
and active, with straight back and barrel
chest and small shapely black head
balanced like a hawk on a thick muscular
neck. Something brisk and soldierly about
his whole bearing and about the direct
glance of his dark-brown eyes,
PETER drank anything that came his
way—“ Get on to this plonk, Dig.”—
and drinking made Peter gay. When he
laughed he tilted his black head back and
roared, filling the smoky room. He made
a fine figure, I thought, among all the
queer persons at that party. Boots
polished blood-red, webbing white as the
splendid teeth flashing under the straight
black moustache and his broad, high-
cheekboned face brown and hard ; a good
symbol, I thought, of the brown Aus-
tralian earth.
And that even though there was too
much grease on his
slicked - back black
hair, and although
the khaki tie and
officer - type shirt
showing through the
unbuttoned top of
his tunic were most
severely forbidden by Routine Standing
Orders, or something of the kind.
Peter got rid of the moustache at Beit
Jirja, where he was given his second
stripe, and the red-headed sailor knocked
two of his fine front teeth out that night,
leaving a permanent gap.
AFTER the sailor had knocked him
down for the fourth time I picked
Peter up, retrieved his hat, and led him
away, spitting blood. Peter was strong
and game but he wasn’t much of a fighter.
Down at Central Railway Station Peter
blinked at me out of a damaged eye:
**Y’ know. Dig.”—Peter, I discovered
later, was inordinately fond of this form
of address —“Y’ know, I’m sorry that
happened.”
I said I could well believe it.
“No,” he said, and gave me a look of
brown-shining sincerity that vaguely em-
barrassed me —“You don’t get me. A
bashin’ —what’s that?” And he laughed
through split iips. “That’s ail.” He
waved his skinned knuckles at the night
air. “But it was the big civvy I wanted
a crack at —not the sailor. He butted in.
Y’ know. Dig.”—he looked at me, almost
shyly—■“! don’t think it’s right servicemen
fighting amongst themselves —do you?”
“Aw, come on,” I said at last. “We’re
going to Ingleburn, aren’t we?”
We shared a bottle of whisky on the
train, and I’m not sure that we didn’t
swear eternal friendship by the time we
got back to camp.
THESE and other memories of Peter
came crowding back. And they were
all very foreign to Martin-place on a
bright Saturday morning, the blue sky
arched gloriously over that busy mercan-
tile gully, a deep and unbroken and
perilous blue, and the streets gay with
women’s summer frocks.
The mystery of Peter who
went Russian solved at a
p.-0.-w. reunion in Sydney
But some things are etched sharply on
the mind: mine had a picture of Peter
and Anton behind the wire. Peter in the
Tommy greatcoat that was too big for
him, the corporal’s stripes up and the
Sixth Divvy H.Q. color-patch; Anton in
wooden clogs, a homemade shoulder-
piece sewn to his battledress tunic to show
that he was a Royal Navy man, and a
long khaki scarf streaming in the wind.
Both of them, the tall figure and the
short one, dwarfed behind the high hedge
of barbed-wire, black-edged under the low
slate-grey sky.
11 ARSH!” The German n.c.o. gave
I"I the order and the mob marched,
exultantly, after a day of anxious waiting,
unevenly, for we were an uneven mob.
“Break it down in front!” But the
leaders hurried on.
“Sick men here! ” A wail from the rear.
That raised a laugh, for weren’t we all
sick men, passed and certified by the
Swiss doctors and by the Jerry? Sick and
wounded, emptied ammunition being re-
turned to base, a bit irregularly and a bit
belated.
I twisted my neck, seeing the last of
Peter, Anton tall and erect beside him. If
I saw any special significance in the two
standing together like that I gave no
conscious thought to it as our metal-shod
heels banged on the frost-hardened road,
ringing in broken rhythm. My thoughts,
anyway, were pretty chaotic just then,
plunging like a ship in a gale; or like
loose cargo, skidding and sliding all over
the ship. I was going home. They were
staying. There was strong enough
emotional chemistry in that to make the
picture of them clear and enduring.
A NTON was standing in a doorway,
** his narrow hazel eyes reduced to mere
bright slits by our strong Australian light,
his highly-colored face flushed red over
a stiff white collar. Despite these signs
of physical discomfort Anton somehow
succeeded in looking tranquil, detached,
almost cool: the classic onlooker. His
thick lips were pursed in their charac-
teristic half-smile —
down at the middle,
then up, and down
again at the corners
which creased into
two parallel curly-
tailed lines, fish-
hooks biting into the
firm chin: a grimace controlled and medi-
tative and not unpleasant.
He was dressed, as Peter would have
said, “like a toff.” Impeccably, There
was always a touch of the grand seigneur
about Apton, even in ragged khaki. And
something, too, of the English milord of
Continental legend. I stared at him, but
I experienced no sort of surprise at his
civilian magnificence. I would probably
have been astounded to see him dressed
in any lesser degree, after the war.
<< T OE!”
A shout in my ear and a heavy
hand on my shoulder. I wheeled to the
handsome, stupid face of Bill Flannigan,
a law student like myself, a hearty young
brute in a green hat.
“Hullo,” I said, with a noticeable
absence of enthusiasm.
But it was wasted on Bill. Shout and
slap were mere passing salutations —
spontaneous token of Bill’s animal spirits
and small coin of his invincible belief in
his universal popularity. Already he was
on his way, shouldering through the
crowd with cheerful brutality, pausing to
shout the utterly irrelevant information
that he was going to Randwick “with
Olga.” Whoever Olga was. Or perhaps
it was a horse, Olga Something-or-other,
that he was advising me to back.
| DIDN’T really hear him. I was star-
-1 ing at Anton again, and the sight of his
keen, florid face set memory wheeling
round like a searchlight; and there,
caught in the timeless beam, was Peter,
his arm raised in a waving sort of re-
luctant salute and his eyes bright with a
dumb intelligence.
There had always been something
faintly canine about Peter’s eyes; but
my last impression of them, as we
marched out of the Stalag, was that they
were wonderfully like the eyes of an old
blue cattle-dog we owned once. The eyes
of a dog that knows he isn’t going home.
I wondered at the time if there was
some message Peter wanted to give me.
But then I had made an oifer of sorts
already that morning.
After one of the many check parades
Peter had swaggered up to me, delivered
himself of the opinion that 1 was a lucky
so-and-so, and stood there, hands in
pockets and dark head cocked to one side,
glumly staring at me: an inspection
intense and disconcerting.
“Oh, well, Pete,” I said, when I could
stand it no longer; “won’t be long now.
Not for any of us,” I hastened to add:
“way things are going. The bombing, and
Italy and everything. They reckon” —
here I faltered a little before Peter’s un-
wavering black stare —“they reckon the
.Russians are going great guns. You’ll be
drinking beer in Sydney before you know
where you are!”
I finished on a high false note of
heartiness.
“Youse lousy cows will drink all the
beef!”
That, was better! Humor! I rubbed
my hands.
“Oh, there’ll be bags of beer,” I
assured him. “New South and Victorian.
Tooth’s and Toohey’s and Victorian
Bitter, Ballarat ...”
IT struck me suddenly that there was
* something bizarre about this talk of
pubs and beer at such a time, in such a
place. The bleak sky overhead and the
grim barbed-wire around, and a wind with
all the cold plains of Poland behind it
clawing at the red-and-black flag above
the steep slope of the Commandantur
roof.
But the warm mood of comradeship
persisted.
“Look here, Peter,” I said. “Would you
like me to look up this girl of yours
when we get in to Sydney?”
Peter looked at me steadily, the thick
muscles of his jaw clenching and rippling.
“No! ”
“Oh, all right,” I said, offended. “I
just thought ...”
“Do y’ think I’d let an old bull like you
go near my shiela?”
And he accompanied this atrocious re-
mark with a broken-mouthed smile.
“Oh, go to hell!” I said and turned
away,
I was quite unreasonably shocked,
I watched him out of the corner of my
eye, swaggering away. The true larrikin
walk, feet dragging and hands in pockets,
something between a strut and a slouch.
Yet he could be smart as paint on a
parade-ground.
Then I forgot him, watching a rolling
column of dark clouds riding over the
forest, bearing down on us.
IN Sydney the sky was cloudless and
* blue, but a heavy lady laden with
parcels was bearing down on me, and I
evaded her only by skipping like a faun.
And when I looked up Anton had gone.
In a momentary panic I ran forward,
looking for him ; forgetting that I had
just decided that I wouldn’t speak to him,
after all. Such meetings are usually em-
barrassing. And I couldn’t be sure that
he would remember me.
Unexpectedly I found his pink face
level with my own and, before I had time
to think about it, I held out my hand and
said “Hullo, Anton.”
His hazel eyes narrowed slightly, the
merest reflex, and he said “Campbell, by
jove! ” and took my hand in his firm soft
grasp. There was strength under the
flesh. “It’s a small world,” Anton said,
smiling. “And what have you been doing
with yourself, Joe?”
There was only the faintest hesitation
before the last word—a kind of slur in
the soft, rich voice. I felt an absurd
elation that he had remembered my name
at all.
“Oh, I’m doing law,” I said. I felt
suddenly awkward. “Er —how do you
like Australia?” A swift realisation that
this was an idiotic question made me
hurry on. “Been here long? Ever been
here before? Er —how are things?”
HE made no attempt to answer me. He
just smiled, his bright hazel eyes
studying me. Anton always made me
feel like a child, yet there was no hint of
patronage in his manner; it was, rather,
a kind of rare understanding, a mixture
of courtesy, aloofness and a mental
maturity which could be neither mistaken
nor denied. It was no more possible to
resent Anton’s manner than it would be
for a healthy child to rebel against the
fact that his father wore long trousers.
“Well,” he said. He pronounced it
with a kind of dwelling on the vowel, and
a liquid sound to the “1” ; his English
was perfect and unaccented, but if you
listened for it you could tell he was not
English, An elusive impression, but it
was there; coming, I suppose, from the
fact that his speech was neutral, with no
taint of dialect or recognisable echo of
school. “Well” —it was a favorite ex-
pression of his —“I think this calls for a
drink. What do you say?”
“Too right.” I made a dart for a
nearby bar entrance, but he stopped me.
“We’ll want to talk,” he said. “You know
—drink slowly. It might be better if we
went to a hotel lounge, where we can sit
down.”
“Of course.” I nodded. I should have
thought of that myself.
As we crossed the road I kept glancing
sideways at Anton, furtively studying him.
The neat flanges of hair under the brim
of his black homburg hat were silver,
there were multitudes of fine lines drawn
about the keen eyes, and two deep ones
running from the nostrils of his long, blunt
nose to the corners of his wide, mobile
mouth. Like the rest of us, Anton had
aged. “Well, here we are!” Anton
found a table. We sat down.
“Now, Joe,” Anton leant forward a
little, giving the flattering impression that
he was entirely interested in what I had to
say. “So you’re doing law, eh? What
made you decide on that?”
I explained, as best I could, the re-
habilitation system which enabled ex-
servicemen to study for professions and
trades.
ANTON listened, his eyes half-closed,
his face a highly-colored mask. Now
and then he nodded slightly, or asked a
pertinent question. He was not a brilliant
conversationalist, in the ordinary sense of
the term. He was, I think, too mature.
But he was a wonderful listener. In
Stalag, where everyone knew everyone
else’s civilian occupation, the real one
and the one they told lies about, we knew
only what Anton chose to tell us about
himself. That he was an A.B. in the
British Navy, employed as an interpreter
on the Murmansk run, and that he was a
naturalised British subject bora in Russia.
Of his pre-war life there was never a
direct word, and the man’s formidable


reticence killed impertinent questioning.
Only, occasionally, in conversation, we
sot a hint of his background. Talking to
a Punjabi one day, it came out that he
knew India well. And when Mustapha,
the Arab medical orderly, became sud-
denly tongue-tied in a complicated matter
of barter, Anton surprisingly conversed
with him in fluent Palestinian Arabic. I
know it was fluent, and correct, because
Mustapha told me about it afterwards.
And Anton spoke other languages well—
German, Spanish and Italian; and, of
course, French.
I DON’T know how long Anton and I
1 sat in the hotel lounge, drinking and
talking. For an hour, perhaps, although
the time seemed shorter. Then Anton
glanced at his wrist-watch.
“It has been nice seeing you again, Joe.
If you’ll excuse me now, I have to meet
a man for lunch.” He seemed to hesitate,
looking not so much at as past me. “Per-
haps you’d care to drop in later —say
about three?”
Again I had the extraordinary feeling
of being singularly honored. A flattering
sensation at the time, but damaging to
the ego on later analysis.
“About three!”
It wasn’t until later, outside in the toil-
ing street, that I remembered that I hadn’t
mentioned Peter at all. A queer thing,
that, for Peter had been very much on
my mind that morning. I pondered the
queerness of this and related matters dur-
ing lunch; a frugal lunch in a little
restaurant I knew, handy to the Law
School.
It was one of those sunken caves of
restaurants, and above my head I could
see a strip of pavement with a multitude
of passing feet. Curious, I reflected idly,
how people shuffle in a crowd. Like the
Russians coming in to our Austrian camp.
THEY came through the snow in long,
grey, hobbling lines, like a mob of
starving sheep. Jamming at the big Stalag
gates and breaking through, too weak to
stampede, but carried on resistlessly by
the massed weight of thousands of light
bodies. Past the Frenchmen’s compound
and up to the sharp barbed corner of the
British block, where they were wheeled
and driven back towards the Delouser and
the hospital. Peter and I standing behind
the hospital wire—Peter had been sent in
from a timber camp with a crushed knee
—and black smoke rolling up from the
Delouser plant. The Delousing squad
standing outside, bare-armed and ready.
Thousands after ragged thousands
trooping into our quiet camp, like hordes
from an old and barbaric world.
So that the Stalag was a simple sheet
of blotting-paper, with smudges for build-
ings and black wet strokes for barbed-
wire, and across the central whiteness a
grey caterpillar squirmed in a tailless loop.
Or the Russians were a river, slow and
winding and dirty-grey, but cascading into
atoms when the sudden flood hit the
Delouser building ; atoms with rigid faces
and lack-lustre eyes deep in bony sockets.
But most of all they were like sheep.
Weak little western hoggets staggering in
after a long drought, hollow and leg-
weary and cruelly driven. Instead of
choking clouds of red dust, snow; and,
instead of our sharp little kelpies and
barbs, noisy brutes with no more idea of
handling a big mob than barking and
yelling and striking. But for all their
screaming violence the guards were de-
feated by the very numbers of the Rus-
sians, and by their obstinate weakness.
There was a real dog, too. A silver-
grey Alsatian, bigger than any I had ever
seen in Australia, long-haired and thick-
set, with a diamond patch on its tail. It
kept woofing at the Russians as they
stumbled past, then turning its great head
towards the guard who held it on a short
leash—a fiery sideways glance of horrible
inquiry.
HT HEY were hefty young men, these
J guards, trim in their field-grey, packs
strapped to solid shoulders and helmets
strapped to the packs ; rough, impatient
young men, handy with fist and rifle-butt
and bayonet; very different men, although
they wore the familiar Eidelweiss on
their peaked cloth caps, from our own
easygoing Austrians. When they had
handed over they would go on leave. I
woudered what tales they would tell the
girls in Vienna and Salzburg and Graz
of this soldierly adventure. Fleroic tales,
doubtless. Or the truth?
The truth, anyway, was imprisoned in
themselves. There was an awful fascina-
tion in that thought, and I found myself
studying the guards, their fresh young
faces and casual human actions, lighting
a cigarette, or easing a chafed shoulder.
Perhaps the physical difficulties of driv-
ing that staggering host exasperated them,
as men become impatient with suffering
sheep; and the continued spectacle of so
much human suffering, day after day and
week after week, must have caused a
thick inhuman skin to grow over the
spirit of pity; or else driven them to
extremes of brutal frenzy, a sort of per-
verted protest.
And they had their orders. Men do
terrible things to orders, shrugging re-
sponsibility to the devil above. An endless
spiral.
WE —French and Yugoslav and British
and the mixed population of the
Lazaret behind the Delouser —locked in
our separate compounds for the occasion,
crowded the wires, silently staring. A
silence echoed, as it were, by the Alders-
berg, the Eagles’ Mountain, rising steeply
behind us, its mighty sides dappled in
black and white and its head in the
clouds; by the Schloss above the village,
the clocktower and the high-roofed
houses, all bearded with snow; by the
little sagging trees hung with icicles and
sparkling in the thin sunlight, like trees
in an enchanted forest ;and by the whole
white, lovely Austrian valley. A silence
made palpable by the keen wind sweepl-
- down from the Aldersberg, heavy with
dampness and with the taste of leaf-
mould and the scent of living pine.
In this formidable silence the sounds
from the white central stage —shouts, the
Alsatian dog’s woofing bark and the thud
of blows —sounded sharp, but trifling;
and underlying them was the continuous
slithering crunch of thousands of feet in
snow. A small drama —a grey figure
bayoneting one of the trudging scare-
crows ; jerking out his bayonet and walk-
ing on without turning his head —brought
a spontaneous murmur, a protesting
swelling rumble, from the spectators be-
hind the wjre. But this died down, and
the dingy grey river flowed on. Already
the first batch of Russians were under
the showers. We could see them, blurred
and elongated white shadows, through
the steam-misted windows. Outside the
Delousing staff were putting their rags
into the big steam-barrels, rolling them
into bundles of fifty or so. And still they
came, short, bent men with no cheeks,
heavy-footed and dreadfully frail.
< ‘ O O that’s the bloody Red Army! ”
O It was Peter, standing beside me,
and his voice held such an intensity of
bitter amazement that I was startled.
Ever since Russia had come into the war
we had fed ourselves with
Russian myths. The
Russians were coming:
the Russians were planning
a gigantic coup: the Rus-
sians were in Yugoslavia
already, and there was
desperate fighting around
Belgrade—we had it on the
word of a Serbian cook —
and the Russians would
cut through the Balkans, slicing Austria
off like a piece of cake, and we would ail
go home. Tales, for the most part, so
childish that nobody really believed them ;
although everyone told them, as a sort
•of pleasant daydream that grew by
sharing.
But Peter, apparently, had taken these
tales seriously. And now the Russians
had come, and he was bitterly disap-
pointed. Even allowing fox the treatment
they had suffered, these wretched dwarfs
were a poor substitute for the Red Army
of our imagination.
But even so: it seemed callous to think
of this with an endless river of human
suffering on the other side of the wire.
“Klheb! Klheb! Pojaloosta, klheb!”
The Russians were crying for bread,
stretching out their claws of hands, jost-
ling against the wire. They gesticulated,
making their imperative need plain. We
threw bread and anything else we could
lay hands on over the fence, and, weak as
they were, they fought over it, like skinny
crazed animals, so that it was cruelty to
continue.
“Lay off,” a British doctor advised us.
“Their stomachs can’t take that stuff, any-
way. Shrunk.”
I had noticed something. Some of the
Russian prisoners were youngsters —mere
children. I mentioned this discovery to
Peter.
“Yairi” he said surlily. He was glower-
ing at the poor wretches as though they
had done him personal and deliberate
injury.
<< | OOK!”
L- A compact group of Russians
was pushing through the scrambling mass
of ragged figures. Squat, solid little
fellows with fat faces; fat, at least, in
comparison with the bony masks around
them. These Russians carried whips,
which they were using lustily, and they
wore Red Cross brassards.
“Holy Ghost!” said Peter. “Medical
Orderlies /”
Medical orderlies with whips! It was
really shocking. And the Red Cross arm-
hands gave the last touch of macabre
irony. It was a sort of blasphemy. To
us the Red Cross was a symbol of salva-
tion. It stood for something steadfast
and humane, catholic and decently
powerful, in a mad and bitter world.
As, indeed, it does.
The Russian medical orderlies flogged
their compatriots back from the fence
and took their place, holding out their
own plump hands, begging with a child-
like faith in our continued generosity.
“Russia doesn’t belong to the Red
Cross,” I explained to Peter. “So those
armbands ...”
BUT he wasn’t heeding me. The first
batch of naked Russians were com-
ing out, their poor quantity of flesh steam-
ing from the showers; out on to the
snow where the cold wind hit them and
they fell like a crop of wheat before the
reaper-and-binder.
“The bastards!” Peter said, between
his teeth. “The rotten murdering
bastards!”
But I don’t think the massacre was
deliberate. It was just routine. Prisoners
were always deloused when they came
into the Stalag, and the German corporal
and his staff were simply following the
usual drill. In the same unimaginative
pattern kiibels of cabbage-soup and
potatoes were being lugged over from the
cookhouse. And thesd killed more
Russians until the cookhouse sergeant, on
his own initiative, called a couple of tall
soldiers to club them away.
But the delousing continued. And
someone was responsible for the evil of
the Russians’ starved bodies.
CLOTHED, the Russians were pitiful
but recognisably human. Naked,
they were related to living humanity only
by the indecent outline of their skeletons
thrusting against their skins, and by the
fact that they moved; feebly, but still
they moved.
We had thought we were skeletal when
we came to Austria, after the long trip
through Hungary, without food and
racked by dysentery. We knew now,
looking at the Russians, that we had been
merely gaunt. The Russians were skele-
tons frailly animated, holding that thread
of life with an eager and terrifying ten-
acity. Their thighs and calves and but-
tocks had melted away, and they were
all grotesquely knock-kneed. Ribs were
outlined like diagrams over bellies
shrunken or hideously bloated, and round
skulls, disproportionately
large, balanced uneasily on
necks like reeds. In all this
poverty of flesh the hair
alone was unchecked,
luxuriant and, somehow,
obscene, like seaweed cling-
ing to the bones of a ship
many miles under the sea.
Yet they lived. Skeleton
arms were extended for
cigarettes, skeleton hands grabbed them
and the top-heavy skulls nodded with satis-
faction over the burning weeds before
rival skeletons snatched them from between
their dry and famished lips. We threw
cigarettes in a conscience-stricken shower.
Cigarettes couldn’t do them much harm,
we reasoned, and the act did us good, for
the sake of our common humanity.
And still they came, wet hundreds
pouring out of the steaming doorway to
fall, and hundreds crushing in from the
other side, an awful smell rising from
the shower-rooms and naked bodies
sprawled on the whiteness of snow.
Near by a fresh-faced German soldier
was cutting himself off a slice of sausage
and eating it with coarse black bread.
I turned to say something to Peter and
saw that he was crying.
NEXT day Peter informed me that the
Russian medical orderlies whose be-
havior had so shocked us were not Rus-
sians at all, really, but Germans in dis-
guise. Gestapo men, or something of
the sort. He was evasive on the grounds
for this singular belief, but stuck to it
in the face of the combined derision of
the barrack. A week later his confidence
in the might of the Russian Army was
quite restored. He would stand for hours,
staring past the village to where the
southern road wound steeply past Alders-
berg Schloss as though expecting to see
the Red Army charging victoriously into
the village, past the Bierhaus and the
gossiping hausfraus and up to our
barbed-wire gates to liberate us all.
About this time Peter began to admit
me into his cautious confidence. He
told me about dairy-farming down the
South Coast before the family moved to
a grimy Sydney suburb. Lying on his
back with his square hands folded behind
his head, he would come out with odd,
inconsequential scraps of information:
possums playing on the roof, his father’s
gambling and a big hairy dog they had
when he was a child which was called
Malchick.
“That’s a funny name,” I said.
“It’s Russian,” Peter said, staring
thoughtfully at the ceiling.
“Russian?”
“My father,” Peter said with dignity,
“was a great traveller. He had been to
Russia.”
Peter’s father, by all accounts, was a'
great drinker, too. Both tastes seemed ex- '
travagant for a dairyfarmer.
THE Russian prisoners by this time
had settled down. Many of them
were buried in mass shallow graves, but
the survivors put on weight. An outbreak
of typhus, during which the Stalag was
isolated, decimated them afresh, but
there were still thousands. The Russian
Lager was kept locked, but there were
always plenty of Russians knocking
round the camp in working parties, and
a gang of them were employed near our
barracks, outside the wire, digging, when-
the snow thawed. They were active, wil-
ling little fellows, and the middle-aged
Austrian in charge took great pride in
them, pointing them out to passing vil-
lagers as hardy survivors and feeding
them up on extra rations.
The Russians fascinated Peter. He
would hang about the wire watching
them, and he would try to talk to them
in “Stalag lingo”—a crude mixture of
bad German, worse French, odd words
of Croato-Serbian and English.
ONE day Peter greeted me in high de-
light. He had learnt to count up to
ten in Russian. “Listen, Joe, listen!
Yedan, dvar, tree —blast it, what’s
four? —chetiree, pyet, schest, sedem,
orsum, dyevet, dyecet. How’s that, eh?
Not too bad for a mug, is it?” He
beamed, shyly proud.
It was intrigued by this surprising in-
tellectual interest in one whose conversa-
tion was usually limited to food, beer,
racehorses and Rugby League football;
and, of course, the victorious Red Army.
But I never thought his enthusiasm would
run to learning the language.
Curiously, too, Peter never said much
about women. When women were men-
tioned in the familiar sentimental and
lewd barrack-room reminiscences Peter
shut up like a dark book.
That night Peter showed me a photo-
graph of his girl. She had a cloud of dark
hair and she was rather thin-faced and
white, with full lips and big intense eyes
—whether dark grey or brown I could
not make out from the photograph. They
would marry, Peter said, as soon as the
Red Army liberated us; by proxy,perhaps.
THE Red Army didn’t liberate us that
winter, or spring, or summer; and
at the end of the year I went to Upper
Silesia where, about six months later,
Peter joined me.
He came marching into the Stalag one
evening, escorted by an armed guard,
very weak and peaked and ragged, carry-
ing a Yugoslav dixie and one threadbare
blanket." He had been in trouble in
Austria for striking a guard; and he
had been lucky to. get off with solitary
confinement. But he had been sent to a
bad prison—a place notorious among
p.-0.-w. throughout occupied Europe —
for his corrective term, and the place had
scarred him. He was morose, and he no
longer talked of the conquering Red
Army. He would sit on the edge of his
bunk listening to the war news, his lower-
lip thrust out and not a spark in his brown
eyes.
ONE evening Willie Hinchcliffe, the 4th
Hussar, was talking about England
in 1926. It was not an argument, but a
discussion in which George Palmer and
I, the other two Australians, were in-
tensely interested. And, for different
reasons, so were Jock from Glasgow, and
the Geordie, and Brown, the London
School of Economics man. Peter lay on
his bunk f twiddling with the cheap
Egyptian ring he wore on the little finger
of his right hand, listening.
“Fair dinkum, Aussie,” Willie Hinch-
cliffe said, in his bounding voice ; a light-
hearted imitation of our accent and
alleged idiom. “It was crook. I was in
London and saw’t. People on Thames
embankment ...”
It was that moment Peter chose to in-
trude with his ungainly wit.
“Trouble with you Pommy bastards,”
he said grandly, “is y’ won’t work.
Sludgers, an’ y’ only joined the Army to
get a feed, anyway.” And he beamed
down at them, like a gap-mouthed child
that has said something clever.
Now in the British Isles the word
“bastard” is not universally welcomed as
a term of comradely endearment.
A dim realisation of Peter’s ignorant
innocence, and the prestige of his recent
ordeal, saved him from actual physical
violence. Which, perhaps, was as well.
The Geordie was a British Army middle-
weight champion.
“Should go t’ Awstralia, I s’pose,”
Willie Hinchcliffe said lightly, but with
an edge to his voice. “Where they’re all
bloomin’ millionaires. Half bleedin’
Aussie Army rollin’ in stinkin’ stuff.
’Cept Joe and George.” He was good
enough to jerk a thumb at us in recogni-
tion of our neutrality—“ Every Aussie I
{Continued on next page.)


meet gets ten quid a week or owns a
bloody sheep-station! And what d’ you
do in Civvy-street, Mister bloomin’
Mcßae? You’re Lord Mayor o’ Sydney,
no doubt. Likely, when y’ can ’ardly sign
y’ Weedin’ name!”
Peter’s wooden clogs made a great
clatter as he jumped to his feet and made
his familiar exit. And as he went the
comical chanting voice of Pavlo, the one-
legged Cypriot, a sort of licensed clown,
pursued him:
“Pe-ter off. Peter Popoff,
Peter Popoff.”
We laughed in an embarrassment of
relief. And after that the name stuck.
“Finished with this table?”
It was the Sydney waitress standing
over me, arms akimbo, pencilled brows
frowning.
“Oh, yes, sorry,” I said, returning with
a start to the present.
Y\/ALKING down King-street I was
■ * obsessed by the idea that Peter
might be in Sydney. Might be here. In
a tram, perhaps. I peered into a Watson’s
Bay tram, and then smiled at my own
eccentricity.
I had other interests besides Russian,
whereas Peter had only this one
passionate intellectual occupation which
absorbed him. There was something
heroic about his persistence; and it was
a horrible nuisance, too.
These other interests of mine threw
me into the company of a small group
of Englishmen whom Peter affected to
despise.
They were scholarly Englishmen, as in-
flexible, in their way, as any Regular Army
colonel or corporal. Their trained and
critical intelligence could be brought to
bear, amusingly and on
their national characteristics. But in their
daily lives and opinions they conformed
to type. Anything un-English gently
amused them.
And they had a brand of Donnish
humor—something glancing and whim-
sical and with a sting in it—which I
feared.
It was hardly pleasant, then, to be
walking with Robinson, who was kind
enough to tutor me in Greek, and to be
greeted with a hale shout of “Hey,
!” or “Campbell, y’ bludger!”
These being Peter’s notion of suitable and
humorous salutations.
“Oh, hullo, Peter,” I might say, and
make to pass on.
But these tactics didn’t succeed with
Peter. “What about cornin’ and doin’
some Russian?” he would demand
fiercely. As though he were a particu-
larly fanatical priest and I a backsliding
member of his flock. And if he caught
me offering my companion a cigarette he
would indulge in a piece of sheer
malicious fantasy. “Ho! So you’ve got
some, have y’! Y’ smoked all mine
last night, y’ bludger!” He would stand
back, broad fists on hips, and permit a
grudging smile to creep over his face.
“Y’re a proper bludging sod, you
are!” As though compelled, despite
his just indignation, to be amused at
the very scope of my extraordinary
depredations. And he would wag his
head with a sort of sad violence, as
though despairing of my immortal soul.
“Well, old chap, I must push on,” my
learned acquaintance would say, being
much too polite an Englishman to raise
his eyebrows. And he would push on,
filled with whimsical misgivings,
j FOUND Anton where I had left him,
J in the corner of the lounge. But
he had changed his clothes, his grey-
streaked hair was damp and brushed
back from his commanding forehead, and
he looked fresh and trim and cool in a
tropical suit and a soft white shirt.
He silently raised a fat, nicotine-stained
forefinger by way of greeting, and I
silently nodded my head and sat down.
The table had four chairs, and I put my
hat on one and stretched my legs in
the welcome coolness.
“Beer!” said Anton, and imperceptibly
nodded to a fleeting waiter. Anton had
subtly changed since the morning. The
clothes, perhaps, had something to do
with this indefinite impression; or per-
haps he had been drinking. But his
eyes were as clear as they had ever been,
level and bright.
Still, he had changed. I smelt it.
“Been to a newsreel,” I volunteered,
making myself comfortable.
“U-huh?”
“It was pretty lousy,” I said, watching
Anton with a quite unnecessary intent-
ness. Now, I thought, I will ask him:
about Peter. Surely Anton would re-
member him; he could hardly have had
a more exasperating pupil, ever . . .
“p\o you remember Peter Mcßae?”
Anton asked quietly.
It was so pertinent that I could only
goggle at him. Anton’s hazel eyes
gleamed through the smoke of one of
his eternal cigarettes, and I fancied there
was a spark of malicious humor in them.
“Peter?” I said at last. “Peter Popoff?
We used to call him Peter Popoff, you
kn0w....” I smiled reminiscently, think-
ing of all the odd and absurd things I
remembered about Peter. I felt at ease
now; “Whatever happened to him?”
“He’s dead.” The words fell with a
sort of calm and heavy finality—a kind
of negative violence. I searched Anton’s
face for some sign of emotion. It was
calm and pink and impassive, but tired.
There was a weary droop to the heavy
mouth, and the lines that ran up to the
nervous nostrils were heavy, as though
drawn ip charcoal by an impatient hand.
And the hazel eyes were dull,
“Oh.” So the story ended like that.
I felt no particular regret, now that 1
knew, and no great surprise. “Poor old
Peter.”
A hovering waiter materialised, dissi-
pating the awkward silence. “Same again
—no, make mine whisky.”
“Whisky and soda, sir?”
The brisk drink-waiter was looking at
me. “No, water.”
In almost no time he was back, and
I felt better after I drank the strong stuff ;
warmer ; more secure. For
now that the fact of Peter’s
death had sunk in, as it
were, I discovered that it
released a cascade of
memories, Peter with his
girl’s photograph; Peter’s
black brows squirming over
a translation from War and
Peace; possums on the
roof . . . Like bubbles com-
ing up from the cold and
secret depths of the sea.
After all, we had been
friends and had lived to-
gether on terms of the most
painful intimacy.
With these poignant
bubbles shooting through
my mind I felt compelled to
say: “You knew he was a
Russian?” There, it was out! What-
ever loyalty I had owed Peter had con-
strained me to keep his secret until now.
But death released one from contracts —
didn’t it?
Anton nodded. “Yes.” Two jets of
smoke came from his taut nostrilSj mak-
ing him look like a pink and impassive
dragon. “I knew his father rather well.
In fact, he was my cousin. On my
mother’s side.”
Superficially Anton was as inscrutable
as ever, the muscles of his pink face
composed, the rich voice even. But some
instinct told me that he was acting, and
the clarifying flash of knowledge thrilled
me and stiffened me to conceal my sur-
prise. I gave myself away, I suppose, in
the first reaction, but I tried not to sound
too idiotically startled when I asked:
“Did Peter know?”
“No!” Again there was a change in
this man of fleeting moods. His eyes
softened and kindled with a distant,
thoughtful expression; not vacant but
penetrating, only the object being con-
centrated on was far away. “No, I never
told him. The two branches of our
family were not friendly. There was
trouble —blood trouble —about land...”
“"THERE was no sense in telling him
I —all that was past.” Anton
was frowning at some point beside his
empty glass. Then he looked up and smiled
radiantly. “But you want another drink.”
He beckoned to a waiter and the man
came hurrying. Anton must tip well to
command such service on a Saturday
afternoon in Sydney with the beer on, I
thought. We were in the guest lounge.
But the place was already filling with
people back early from the races.
“Yes, sir ... Same again, sir? . , .
Certainly, sir.”
The man was uncommonly deferential.
Perhaps it was Anton’s grand manner that
had subdued him. The queer thing was
that Anton no longer overawed me. I
felt the impact of his intelligence, and
respected it. But I had discovered that he
was vulnerable; and I had a feeling, in-
explicable but invincible and exhilarating,
that the two of us were engaged Jn a
duel. A duel in which I ran no serious
risk of getting hurt. ,
IMMUNITY is a comfortable thing. I
I raised my glass and smilingly toasted
my adversary. And Anton smiled back.
Smiled and talked. “Yes,” his slow, rich
voice ran on ; on and on like a river. “I
remember Peter’s father, as a boy, pushed
me into a river. A river, you understand,
in Russia, in winter. No ide on it, but the
taste of ice in the water. Cold and black
as death. And why? An argument over
a bet —a schoolboys’ bet. A creature of
impulse, Ivan Ivanovitch. No brains, but
bubbling, violent emotions. . I nearly
died.” Anton looked at me steadily, and
I was sure he was drunk. He had prob-
ably sat in the lounge all day, quietly
soaking.
“These things go deep,” Anton was say-
ing, “childish enmities. I hated him for
years—as a child, you understand. He
had red hair, and the pink, sensitive skin
that goes with that sort of hair, and as I
grew stronger I took a cruel delight in
pulling his hair —dragging him round by
it, his head bent down and myself stand-
ing well clear of his kicking feet. All
very goodhumored, you understand —
boyish high spirits. But cruel, too, and
deliberate. I was very strong. Then we
grew up, and there was the other trouble.
I saw him years later, in Moscow. A
fat, comic little man, the red hair thin.
A furious gambler and a drinker who
liked to impress young officers. He was
in the Army, you know ...”
I remembered Peter telling me his
father was an officer in the Imperial
Russian Army • . .
“ AND a prince, too, I suppose?”
Tv peter said his father wasn’t a
prince. He was a captain in the regular
army. His uniform was at home, in the
boarding-house at Glebe. There had been
a sword, too, but his father had pawned
it . . .
“Sure your father wasn’t a duke, then?”
Peter surlily said that he
supposed I thought I was
being very funny. As a
matter of fact there were
quite a few Russian parties
in Sydney. His brothers
and sisters went, and his
father, but he didn’t be-
cause . . , Well, he couldn’t
speak the language. They
all spoke English, too, of
course, but he felt out of
it, somehow. And his father
had no noble blood. But
he was an officer in a
cavalry regiment —not the
Guards —and he came from
a family of wealthy timber
merchants. A lot of the
wealth came out of Russia
with the family, but Peter’s
father had gambled his share away.
“But what about your name—Mcßae?”
X asked.
“I changed it —deed-poll—when 1
joined the Army.”
“Why?”
Peter glowered. “I didn’t want a lot
of silly cows poking muck at me.”
We were standing outside the barrack
in Upper Silesia when Peter made this
confession, overcoats buttoned to our
chins, crisp snow under our boots and a
white curtain of drifting snow around
and above us and settling on us, gentle
as pity, numbing cold. Peter had called
me outside, making a ritual of it, a
regular confession.
| STAMPED and shivered and glanced
I at the fatigue men coming down the
white road from the cookhouse with the
barrack’s bread.
“Well ...” The news was startling
enough, and now I had had time to digest
it, I believed it. There had been hints
enough, if I had had the wit to interpret
them. But I was numbed with cold, and
the bread was coming. Five men to a loaf
was the ration then, and we hadn’t had
any Red Cross parcels for three weeks.
The thought of food was never very far
from our minds. “Better go in now,
Peter,” I said, and turned and went, leav-
ing Peter looking profoundly disap-
pointed.
That was the beginning of a series of —
not confessions, exactly, but enlarge-
ments and continuations of the grand
central fact that Peter was a Russian,
actually born in Russia although he left
the country as a baby. The confession
itself arose out of one of our silly barrack
arguments, during which I had said some-
thing about “the Slav type of face” ; said
it and forgot it. Only half an hour later
Peter had approached me, and after some
beating about the bush reminded me of
it, wanting to know what I meant.
“We 11...” I searched for ready words
to explain these scattered impressions, and
at that moment Peter jutted his lower lip
out and frowned his blackest. “You’ve
got a Slay face,” I said, in a kind of in-
spiration.
Peter gave me a curious, brightly-mis-
trustful glance and walked off without a
word.
And in an hour he was back, taking me
outside, swearing me to secrecy, mumbling
his confession. And for weeks after he
kept reminding me of my promise, beg-
ging me to keep his secret, till I was
heartily sick of it and him.
iiy OU realise, of course, Gospodin
I Peter Popoff,” I said one morning—
calling him Peter Popoff gave me a sly
sort of pleasure now ; and whenever I did
it in public he gave me a dark, reproachful
glance—“ You realise, I suppose, that if
you go back to Russia Uncle Joe will
cut your head off?”
“I’m not that important,” Peter said
seriously.
“A bullet behind the ear, then. You’re
not mad enough to think of going back —
are you?” I stared at him. Perhaps he
was.
Peter looked away. “There was a
friend of my father’s in Sydney—he had
a coffee-shop at King’s Cross. He went
back. And he wrote to them all —father
and the others, and to the young ones,
too. He said he couldn’t imagine living
anywhere else.”
I roared with laughter and Peter
frowned at me, serious and puzzled.
“We might say that,” I reminded him.
\ \ /ITH a start I came back to the less
“ “ vital reality of the hotel lounge, to
find the attentive waiter at my elbow,
and Anton chattering. Yes, chattering;
talking about the opera, brilliantly and
with charm, but with a sort of loose
loquacity, so that I began to wonder if
he really had any idea of what the
brilliant pyramids and arabesques of
words really meant. Funny thing, but I
had never thought of Anton as a
chatterer; as a man of iron, rather, or
steel. But there was a profound change
in him; as though he had been softened
in some disagreeable way. The main-
springs of his personality loosened. Just
shows you what drink will do, I told my-
self censoriously. I was becoming a little
drunk myself.
“Poor old Peter!” I said, banging my
glass on the table. “He was a mate of
mine!”
“Tch!” Anton clucked reprovingly.
“Not so loud! ”
“I’m not talking loud! ” I yelled. Anton
looked at me steadily, and I became aware
of people at neighboring tables looking at
us. “Sorry,” I said sulkily. Suddenly I
had a vision of Anton, with that anxiously
disapproving look on his face, correcting
Peter’s Russian prose, and chuckled.
“Remember . . . ?” I said. “Remember
the roof leaking, and us sitting there with
our noses blue and our feet wet, soaking
up Russian? God knows why. And the
soup kiibels going past, and us sniffing
the air like a lot of hungry hounds, and
you trying to read out the bridge scene
from War and Peace, and Peter not
understanding about the vocative.
‘Only in Church Russian, Peter,’ you
said, and Peter said ‘But they aren’t in
church, they’re on parade’ and you said,
‘But he’s blaspheming,’ and Peter said
‘Oh,’ and leaned over to me and asked,
“What’s blasphemy, Joe?’ and when I
told him he said ‘Oh, that,’ and looked at
me as though I was trying to insult him.
And remember, Anton, the two Punjabis,
with their black silky beards, and their
clean turbans?”
Anton nodded and remembered. “They
were good students, the Indians.”
“How they ever kept their turbans
clean had me beat. Another drink?”
“Take it easy, Joe,” Anton said sooth-
ingly. “We might miss out a round, eh?”
* I CT UITS me,” I said agreeably. I
leaned forward confidentially:
“You know it was pretty wonderful,
Anton, when you come to think of it.
Us trudging up to lessons through the
snow —howling blizzards some of them —
pretty near, anyway. Snow in our teeth
and in our eyes and the wind whipping
our ears, our empty bellies caving in, and
the bloody cold taste of snow in our
mouths. God, how I hated snow! The
stuff crawling through the leather of our
boots and coming up through our bones.
Remember how we would look out the
window, where you had the chart of the
Russian alphabet, shshe, and tch, and all
the e’s, and myerky znark? And the
blinding whiteness of snow everywhere.
Then it would taper off, and there would
be faint feathery flakes of the stuff drift-
ing down, and the stables outside the wire
would be square and black against it, like
a Jerry helmet. And Peter would sniffle
—remember how he would sniffle? —and
we would keep coming, in the snow and
slush, to learn Russian.”
Anton’s pink face crumpled into his
wry smile, the white fish-hooks biting into
his chin. “Was it ever any use to you?
“No use at all! ” I nearly knocked my
empty glass over with a sweeping, expan-
sive gesture. “No earthly use. That’s the
bloody wonderful part about it.”
“I see.”
“Tell me, Anton”—l leaned still further
forward, breathing friendliness and
whisky: Anton was my comrade; we had
seen things; we were hardy survivors—
“ Tell me—not that I want to be inquisi-
tive —but what brings you to Australia ? ’
“Business.”
“Oh.” The rebuff was unmistakable.
Mentally and physically, I drew back. I
looked at Anton with suspicion. I began
to see that I had been wrong to confide
in him. Perhaps I had been disloyal to
Peter, spilling his secret. Perhaps Anton
had been amusing himself, pulling my
leg . . .
These agitated thoughts were inter-
rupted by a crisis of a physical nature.


“Excuse me,” I said with dignity. “Must
go ”
As soon as I made it I was sick.
SOME little time later, washed and
white and with a horrid feeling inside
me, but sober, I stepped back into the
lounge. It was a pleasant, old-fashioned
place of shadowed mirrors and gilt, heavy
carpets and deep lounges under rich
curtains. It was full of people, but
numbers could not ruin the atmosphere
of the place. Opposite me a stag stood
picturesquely at bay within a heavy gold
frame, and above Anton’s head fleshy
nymphs; were being bold with a furtive-
looking satyr. And across the room I
could see a blue range of hills, a silver S
of a river, and smiling fields under a
glorious blue sky, a landscape good
enough to be a Streeton . . .
But someone came between me and the
landscape. Someone big and burly and
boisterous in an expensive suit: Bill Flan-
nigan back from the races, hot and dusty
and thirsty, with a girl on his arm and a
roll of notes that would choke a bullock.
He exhibited them. “Winnings.” And in
some indefinable way he exhibited the
girl, too. As though she were a goo 4
filly he had picked up cheap.
“Beer,” Bill bellowed. And “This is
Olga—Joe.”
I greeted them coldly. Bill did not
accord with my mood. The girl looked
nice enough, tall and well-built and
smartly dressed in a frock of some rich
color, orange or purple, with dainty acces-
sories. But she was a trifle big-boned, and
a shade awkward ; with scarlet lips and
wide grey eyes and brown hair wound
tightly round her head in a sort of plaited
crown.
I didn’t like Bill Flannigan much, any-
way. His was one of those mysterious
cases of young men of brawn and leisure
who never found it necessary to employ
their energies in the armed services dur-
ing the war; and to make it worse Bill
had been a football hero whose exploits
were written up admiringly in the Sunday
papers. And he had too much money.
“Beer,” cried Bill, pushing us before
him. “Here’s George, See if you can get
us a table, will you, George?” Bill knew
all the waiters.
“I’ve got a table,” I said. “I’m with
someone. We were having a quiet yarn—
I haven’t seen him for a long time —but
you can come too, if you like.”
It could hardly have been more un-
gracious. But Bill said “Good! ” as though
I were a Prince of Good Fellows, and
“Lead on.” And then, as I knew he
would, “Macduff!”
A NTON stood up to meet us. He stood
** very straight, his fleshy neck a pink
taut line from square shoulders to the
polished crown of his grey-streaked head.
He had a presence. Even Bill felt it, and
the girl, Olga, was obviously impressed.
Anton bowed to the girl, military style,
at attention. He shook hands with Bill.
And then we were sitting down; I
rescued my hat from Bill’s huge, muscular
rump. And Bill bellowed for beer.
Anton drank whisky again, whisky and
soda. I was satisfied with ginger ale.
Trivial conversation, about nothing in
particular. There is something sordid
about drink and the atmosphere of drink-
ing when you are sated with it. I dis-
covered a headache and smoked a
cigarette without enjoying it.
More drinks. I could see that the
waiter was more deferential to Anton than
to Bill, and Bill noticed this, too, and
resented it. The girl sat quietly sipping
her tall glass of gin, saying nothing, her
wide grey eyes intent on Anton, who was
talking of famous hotels. It struck me
that I had never seen Anton in feminine
company before —an acid test for any
man.
I seized on a name. “The long bar at
Shepheards,” X said . . . And I plunged
into a long and involved anecdote of
Cairo. It gave me a faint malicious
pleasure to exclude Bill from the conver-
sation. Bill who had never tasted the
delights of Cairo, and had never been sub-
jected to the inconveniences of war.
'T'HE girl’s big grey eyes were on me
* now, and stimulated by that clear and
embracing gaze I talked like a machine.
Feminine presence subtly charges the
atmosphere. Especially when there is only
one girl, reasonably attractive, and three
men. Most of all when —to descend to
the frank chemistry of the matter—they
have been drinking.
There was a relief, too, from the
emotional tension of the past half-hour in
the presence of this girl with the scarlet
lips and broad, palely-translucent face
and faint surprised-looking eyebrows
perched precariously on a good broad
forehead over clear grey eyes; something
a little cold about those eyes, I thought,
icy flecks. And yet there was a sweet and
disarming candor in them, too. A man
could easily find himself looking in them
overlong; especially after a few whiskies.
I ordered a whisky next time, and
sipped it cautiously. I had felt an
emotional exhaustion, without being
aware of it, and it was at once soothing
and pleasantly stimulating to listen to the
girl’s airy talk. For she was talking now
that she felt at ease. A conversation
sprinkled with cliches, but amusing, al-
though it melted into froth when one
tried to remember: “This vile little man,”
she was saying, “sidled up to Bill and
tried to tell him ...”
“An urger,” said Bill. “After the
second race. I backed Dark Lady—lost
by a nose . .
“And this horse he was trying to tell
him about, Gay Something-or-other, actu-
ally won the race ...”
“Gay Lover. I should have been on it.”
Bill favored Olga with a smirk, and she
responded with a fleeting, delicate smile
which lit up her pale face wonderfully,
and a wanton droop of her blue eyelid.
Their intimacy was obvious, and I felt
sorry for the girl. Because there was
something about her, despite her pretti-
ness and grace and rather desperate re-
finement —the faint touch of awkward-
ness, perhaps—that said softly but un-
mistakably that she was not from Bill’s
world. And Bill was very particular about
his social world, as X knew, because I
knew his family.
Not that the Flannigans had anything
very much to be proud of except their
money ; and this made them, if anything,
more particular than anyone else. There
was more than personal dislike between
Bill and myself; there was a sort of
hereditary antipathy.
OLD Simon Flannigan, Bill’s grand-
father, and Duncan Campbell, my
own grandfather, started off level. Both
bullockies, in the roaring days of Tooma-
long when there was gold in the Long
Tunnel and the Prince Albert and Stony
Knob . . . Duncan Campbell had gone
in for sheep and Simon Flannigan had
sold poisonous grog in a little rough
shanty below Possum Creek Crossing;
and had made more out of his shanty than
Duncan Campbell ever made out of sheep
and hard work, and stern honesty . . .
The Campbells had stuck to sheep, and
hadn’t done badly, although there had
been hard times, too. But Paddy Flan-
nigan, Bill’s father, had a touch of
financial genius. His father had sent him
to college, and set him up in a pub out
west. Soon there was a trail of pubs, and
in the bad years many of them were
mysteriously burnt down ; and from the
smoking ruins large and grander hotels
sprang, phcenix-like, and Paddy Flan-
nigan extended his business activities to
Sydney, bought stocks and shares and a
house in Vaucluse, and married the
daughter of a suburban doctor. He
bought a place at Toomalong, too, the
old Whitehouse estate, with its green river
flats and dreaming hills, and old Simon
lived there, uncouth and unrepentant.
“U/HERE are we going tonight?”
Olga asked Bill. She had her
elbows on the table and her hands folded
under her chin. They were large hands
and, despite their whiteness and softness,
I guessed she worked with them.
“We might go for a drive,” Bill
drawled. His new Riley would be parked
outside.
No, Bill would never marry her, I de-
cided, eyeing them across the table. The
Flannigans always
married above them-
selves socially. And
the girl was built for
child-bearing. A pity,
for the paint of
sophistication she
wore so proudly was
as thin as tissue-
paper. The more pity,
perhaps, as Bill was
as unconscious as a
young Hereford bull
of any villainy. In
his bovine way he
possibly thought he
was being kind.
The girl had set her mind on nothing
less than marriage. That could be seen
in the secret, intimate glances, the story
behind the expensive costume, the des-
perate refinement; and in the way she
bowed her plait-crowned head, hurt and
white, humble, when Bill rudely inter-
rupted her;
“No, you’ve got it wrong! How would
you know, anyway? It was Tony White
I was talking to ... ”
And he explained, for Anton’s and my
benefit, that Tony White was one of the
grocery Whites, and would be worth a
cool half-million when his old man kicked
the bucket . . .
“Anton and I were in the Army to-
gether,” I explained to Olga: “Well, not
exactly. I was in the Army, and Anton
was in the Royal Navy. But we were in
camp in Germany together ...”
“Bill wasn’t in the Army,” Olga said,
“But he was a very brave footballer —
weren’t you, pet?”
She could scratch, then. Good. Bill
squirmed on his huge bottom.
But I silently applauded Anton’s tact
when he said, smoothly and naturally:
“It is amazingly interesting, you know,
after this length of time, to meet Joe
here, for instance, and to check up on
old impressions. Especially for me, a
stranger. I have never been to Australia
before. A beautiful and astonishing
country.”
“It is beautiful, yes,” Olga said; and
Bill stared in boredom at the embarrassed
satyr on the wall.
DUT when Anton continued: “We
I—' were just discussing the interesting
case of a man we knew in Germany, a
member of the Australian Army caljed
Mcßae” I stared at him in angry
astonishment. It was natural enough for
Anton and I, who knew him, to discuss
him, even unkindly. But to drag Peter
by the black hair of his head out of
eternity for the amusement of Bill Flan-
nigan and his moll seemed consummate
bad taste. I glanced at Olga—how white
she was —and felt a vague compunction.
Well, not a moll, exactly. That was
being unnecessarily and Calvinistically
harsh. But I felt furious with Anton, and
with them all. It was like witnessing the
dissection of a friend on a cold scientific
slab.
Anton dissected very well. “He was a
Russian, this man. Like myself.” Anton
gave a brief and ironical inclination of
his commanding head. “Only, unlike me,
he did not speak Russian. On the
contrary, he spoke a very picturesque and
colloquial Australian. But he burnt —
you might almost say he was consumed —
with a desire to speak the language of
his fathers —who, by the way, were a
picturesque crowd, too. Great ruffians.
And I had the honor of teaching the
language to —er —Mcßae and Joe, here,
in the prison camp.” Anton was enjoy-
ing himself,
“His father,” I said. “Was an officer
in the Imperial Russian Army. The
family had come down in the world. And
there was something pathetic and—tragic
—in the contrast. Peter’s people were
aristocrats. And Peter had the education
of a rabbit-trapper.”
Anton smiled. “Aristocrats—yes. But
what is aristocracy—after all? Wealth
grown old.”
Bill removed his eyes from the picture.
“That’s right.”
Anton tinkled the ice in his glass. “It
is a fine definition, that. Like most pro-
fundities. crisp. And with as many sides
to it as a diamond. Yet, in a manner of
speaking, you might say Peter’s people
were aristocrats. Not really great folk-
provincial gentry. His father was my
cousin, as was just telling Joe a while
ago. And in prison camp the men called
Peter Peter Popoff. Peter Mcßae, Peter
Popoff, Peter ...”
*‘ O ABOTNOV,” Olga said quietly:
I “Peter Ivanovitch Rabotnov.” She
pronounced the names the Russian way,
Pyetye Eevahnovitch . , .
Anton’s hazel eyes slid round and stared
at her and she stared silently back.
“This is an extraordinary coincidence,”
Anton said evenly.
“It is,” Olga said.
They didn’t look surprised, but they
gave me the extraordinary impression that
I was watching two
people in a dream.
Anton stood up in
one fluid movement.
“Olga Victorovna?”
And he bowed.
OLGA was on her
feet, too, and she
had gathered dignity
about her like a
robe. She was the
same physical girl,
with her pale face and
passionate mouth
and narrow shoulders
and wide hips clad
in soft purple stuff, but she was a dif-
ferent woman. Her face pale as death,
with two streaky patches of color flaring
on her high cheekbones, the grey eyes
exploding in brilliant light. And the
faint touch of awkwardness had gone,
as though she had never possessed it. She
had lost her slight stoop and now she was
beautifully erect, her white hands lightly
poised at her purple sides. And her size
gave her a kind of queenly majesty.
“Yes,” she said softly. “I am Olga.
And you are the White Army colonel
who came to our home in England.”
They stood looking at each other as un-
conscious of my presence, and Bill’s, as
a pair of lovers. Only they weren’t lovers,
1 *■ RUT tell me about Peter,” Olga said
at last. “We were to marry, you
know.” She said it with a sweet and
simple dignity.
“Peter ...” For the first time Anton
seemed disturbed; shaken. He put his
hand to his forehead, as though suddenly
attacked by a violent headache, and
dragged it slowly down his face. And he
suddenly sat down....
“Peter?” Anton was his old tranquil
self, lighting a cigarette and smiling his
half-smile, with its subtle sub-flavor of
irony. He raised a fat finger to a waiter.
There was a style about everything he
did. “But we will have drinks, first. The
same again. And X will tell you about
Peter.”
Olga was sitting with her chin in her
cupped hands, watching him. “How did
he—die?”
“Presently. First you must understand
something about Peter Popoff. The men”
—there was an unconscious arrogance in
that phrase—“the men called him Peter
Popoff. He was —well, many things, like
most of us. But to some he was comic.
Joe, here, thought him a comic character
—didn’t you, Joe?”
I shuddered. “He was my friend.”
“Yes. A Stalag friend. But he had
great qualities, Peter Ivanovitch, locked
up somewhere in him, like a spirit in a
tree. And no Prospero to wave them
free. He was brave.”
“Yes,” Olga whispered.
“Bravery, of course, is comparative.
Some say it is a matter of diet. Or it
may be nothing more than thinking
clearly, seeing what has to be done, and
doing it, while all around one men are
acting like sheep. I, myself, have been
decorated for valor ...”
“Yes, yes,” Olga whispered desperately.
“I know. And Peter, you say . . .”
“Was brave. He showed his bravery,
as much as anything, in learning the
Russian language. More than the elan
of physical courage was needed for that
—determination. I have been decorated.
And I have been a coward, too. But
no one knows that.” He smiled secretly.
“But I was telling you about Peter. He
learned Russian, you know. Desperately,
frantically , . .”
Anton’s rich voice rolled on leisurely,
speaking of things I knew, and while
he talked I studied them. So this was
the girl, Peter’s girl. Her hair was done
differently—that had deceived me —and
she was more mature. It was, in any
case, difficult to recognise a person from
a photograph, seen a few times years
ago . . .
THE waiter had switched on the
electric lights, and there seemed some-
thing cruel, now, about Anton’s padded
pink face and in his cultured voice.
“We escaped, you know, on one of
the marches. The long marches you
have heard about, no doubt. The
British and Americans attacking from
the west, and the Red armies swarming
in from the east. We marched. Mile
after weary cold mile. When men
dropped out they were shot. At last we
came to another Stalag—a little to the
east, but south. There was a bulge
there —I could tell you—l have maps —
but no matter. And when we marched
out of that abandoned Stalag, Peter
Ivanovitch and I did not march.” He
paused and smiled at us, and sipped his
whisky.
“We hid under our bed-boards. No-
thing very remarkable about that. Men
were hiding under bed-boards all over
Germany. But it was beastly muddy and
cold. And when the prisoners-of-war
and the German guards—very frightened
guards by this time —refugees had passed
us on the roads, peasants, with heaped
wagons and tales of blood and terror —
when they marched away Peter and I
were left in those acres of empty huts
and barbed-wire and useless sentry-
boxes,
“We hid there for a day, just to make
sure. And then we crept out. I had a
job to do—you understand?” He studied
us, his eyes brilliant with emotion, or
whisky. I nodded and understood. There
had been whispers about Anton’s role
in the camp, and he had had heavy
patronage from the secret British organi-
sations. He even wore a Red Cross
armband to save him from the working
camps, although he was not a medical
orderly. Such a thing was impossible
without the connivance of the British
medical officers. He was a British agent.
ii j HAD a job to do,” Anton re-
-1 peated slowly. “And perhaps I
shouldn’t have taken Peter with me. But
he begged me to come. And next morn-
ing we saw the smoke of the Red Army’s
advance, and more refugees. It was
country very like that we were in,” he
nodded at me. “Flat, grey, sour. And
we had taken up temporary residence in
a potato-shed by the side of a muddy
road. And then, over the flat grey plain
(Continued on page 32.)


■ HUNTER
t
CIGARETTES
I
4mmL
m
H'.rv V/
/ ~ A
m
¥
«S
m
M
c o
s
Op.
•V,
fi So
s ,;Xv N vov
ij aV ea^ nt6r
m
.... and again smoke
a favoured blend
T 9 for 20
EVERYWHERE
DISTRIBUTORS
MAURICE NEWSTEAD PTY. LTD. * castureaoh street, stdnet
THE AUSTRALIAN WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Published Weekly, All Newsagents. Price 3d.
BELT
ABRASIVE
FINISHING
c
stcpe/uoi
r\
■-
- :
m
, i//
\
Ss
r-* 1
I*-*-
Abrasive belt grinding and polishing gives a much faster and
more uniform cut, with a high finish, due to the following
features:
★ A cushioned grind is obtained by the resilience of the
contact wheel which also allows a greater contact area.
★ Cooler cutting is assured as the belt provides an abrasive
area several times the limited area available on a set up wheel.
FREE! illustrated is the McPherson Floor Type Hackstand
Idler fully described in this 8-page leaflet. Write for a copy
of leaflet "AA" to:
c
sons
LIMITED
546-566 Collins Street, MELBOURNE 116-130 Weymouth Street, ADELAIDE
260 Kent Street and 51 Bathurst Street, SYDNEY 532 Murray Street, PERTH
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1818
Head Offices 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
C. C. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chainnan).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN 0. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
THE SERVICE MAN
The New Indonesia.
“Ek Dum”: November 2 was
probably a momentous day for
Australia, for upon it, largely
upon the initiative of Canberra,
the agreement which takes Indo-
nesia out of the hands of the
Dutch for all practical purposes
and creates the United States of
Indonesia was signed.
Under the articles of the
charter the Netherlands “uncon-
ditionally and irrevocably trans-
fers complete sovereignty over
Indonesians to the Republic of
the United States of Indonesia”
and recognises the new republic
as independent and sovereign.
Thus nearly 80,000,000
Asiatics become their own mas-
ters with a policy linked with
India and other neighboring
countries, one which, as so far,
shown by the attitude of some
of the main leaders during the
war, is apt to prefer Japan to
the British, Americans and Aus-
tralians.
There is, of course, a symbolic
headship residing in the Nether-
lands Crown, and a union be-
tween the new republic and the
Netherlands which is upon a
quite intangible and tenuous
basis* and which is scarcely
likely to stand permanently any
more than the relationships be-
tween the British Crown and
India are likely to stand. They
are crumbling already.
Some parts of the new repub-
lic are crowded to capacity and
will presently look towards Aus-
tralia beyond doubt as a vacuum
into which their excess millions
may flow. And then the
memories of the politicians who
linked their policies with those
of the Communist unions, whose
slogan is Asiatic Russia before
European Britain, will not be
much esteemed by white Aus-
tralians,
Dutch naval and military
forces are to go home, naval
bases will be gradually trans-
ferred to Indonesia, though pro-
visionally they will remain under
the management of the Royal
Dutch Navy, the Indonesians
having nobody capable of carry-
ing out the work. All Royal
Netherlands Indonesian Army
equipment is to become the
property of the new republic,
and a Dutch military mission is
to stay behind for three years
and train the Indonesian
soldiery,
Dutch New Guinea
The most vital and significant
clause in the new agreement
from Australia’s viewpoint is
that which declares that as it
has not yet been possible to
reconcile the views of the parties,
it has been agreed to maintain
the status quo in Dutch New
Guinea with the stipulation that
within a year after the transfer
of sovereignty the political
status of New Guinea will be
settled by negotiation.
The result then, or in the
near future, is a foregone con-
clusion. Dr. Anak Agung, Prime
Minister of East Indonesia, one
of the. constituent Indonesian
States, said immediately after
the meeting that the failure to
agree about the New Guinea
Dutch territory, so rich and yet
so barbarous, “cast a shadow on
co-operation within the Nether-
lands-Indonesian Union,” and
the head of the Federalist dele-
gates from Borneo declared that
he and his colleagues were re-
turning to Indonesia with great
anxiety to face protests.
The Dutch New Guinea
boundary, of course, runs with
that of Papua and the New
Guinea Trustee territories, and
if any Australians think that
there will be any doubt about
the attitude of the new Govern-
ment of Indonesia to the Aus-
tralian section of the islands
they are optimists. Once Dutch
New Guinea is in their hands a
propaganda will undoubtedly
start to oust the Australian “im-
perialists,” a propaganda for
which Mr. Ward and his friends
have paved the way very nicely.
Of the fate of the New Guinea
Trustee territory there will be
little question once this agita-
tion gains weight. Under the
conditions which the Australian
Government has accepted it lies
with U.N.O. rather than with
Canberra to say what will hap-
pen to old German New Guinea.
And Russia and every Asiatic
country will overwhelmingly
favor including it within the
borders of Indonesia. Theoreti-
cally the Chifley Government
has already encouraged that
course by its attitude on the
“colonial” question. To be con-
sistent in its attitude it can
scarcely find an excuse for re-
fusing.
It has failed to draw a dis-
tinction between Papua, which
is our own. and New Guinea
territory, which isn’t lumping
the government of both areas
under one administration and
one policy and pampering and
inflating the ego of the natives
in both.
Our Defence Screen
The prospect is not pleasing.
Down as far as Solomons, if the
Indonesians should take over
the whole of New Guinea terri-
tory with the consent of U.N.0.,
the islands would go out of our
hands. Then within 45 minutes’
flying time of our main coast,
controlling the whole of the ap-
proaches to this continent round
the north and north-east, would
be a new country with views on
White Australia which are not
reassuring.
In any case, friendly as that
nation may be to us and as it
is hoped that we will be to it,
with its accession to authority
over the New Guinea area and
its bases, its historic battlefields
and its sea-channel approaches,
we would lose our outer-defence
screen.
Henceforward there would be
no question of our keeping an
outer ring of defences there.
Australia should take the bull
by the horns and state a policy
on this important question. It
should have annexed New
Guinea territory long ago and
made it part of the Common-
wealth as being vitally neces-
sary to our protection.
Invasion From Indo-
China.
“Ek Dum”: Little change has
taken place in the Chinese situa-
tion during the week. The
Communists obviously are satis-
fied to consolidate in Canton and
to continue their slow permea-
tion of the outer regions which
is seeping towards Chungking
and toward those coastal ports
which will be needed if any
attempt is to be made to reach
Formosa.
Generally speaking, nearly all
mainland military activity is by
guerrilla forces. The supply
problem must be serious, and it
is difficult to see how any
attempt could be made against
a strong, entrenched force in the
south without a fairly long pro-
gramme of deliveries of war
materiel.
The first novel feature of the
“war” within the past few days
has been the intrusion from the
south of groups of French Indo-
China guerrillas, who are invad-
ing Kwangtung and Kwangsi,
helping to occupy Hinsiang,
which is only 25 miles from the
Indo-China border, and a dozen
other towns.
They seem to be in columns
of up to about 1000 strong and
are armed in the usual Asian
fashion. The move sets a new
problem for France. Indo-
China, it is logical to believe,
might be in greater danger than
Hong Kong, since it paves the
way to rich resources and to a
link -up with Siamese and
Malayan Communists, leaving
Hong Kong bypassed. Not for
nothing has Ho-Chi-minh, who
has been at war with the French
for some time, been trained in
Moscow.
Hong Kong has a normal
appearance except for the
abundant display of military
uniforms. The Communists
have refused to allow through-
train communication direct with
Canton, 80 miles away, but on
November 1 they reopened the


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO CLIVE FLETCHER late of 23 Gordon
Street Paddington.—TAKE NOTICE that
ELSIE FLETCHER has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 2928 of 1947 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 13th day of January 1950 and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge from
MESSRS. COLLINS & POLLOCK, Soli-
citors, of Grafton, or their city Agents,
MESSRS. SMITHERS, WARREN &
LYONS, Solicitors, Masonic Chambers,
169 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—(L.s.)
J. DOUQHAN, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
TO AMBROSE MICHAEL BOURKE
formerly of Narrabri. —TAKE NOTICE
that FANNY ELIZABETH BOURKE has
filed a Petition No. 3141 of 1049 for
Divorce on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the 17th day of January 1950 and
obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from P. W. REILLY, Solicitor, of
79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—(n.s.) J.
DOUQHAN, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WALTER ROBERT BURR late of
Farnell Road Katoomba Truck Driver.—
TAKE NOTICE that AGNES LORNA
BURR has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1996 of 1946 on the ground of your
desertion without just cause during three
years and upwards If you wish to defend
the suit you should enter an appearance at
the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney on or before the 11/l/’BO
and obtain a copy of the petition with-
out charge from GEOFFREY DYSON
BONAMY, Solicitor, 56 Hunter Street,
Sydney.—(l.s.) J. DOUGHAN, Registrar
in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO PETER ALFRED GREEN late of 30
Park Avenue Ashfield. —TAKE NOTICE
that MAISIE GREEN has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 4906 of 1947 on the
ground of desertion -without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards and
on the ground of your adultery with IDA
FISHER If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 17th January 1950 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from
DENSLEY & DOWNING, Solicitors, 147-
153 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.— (l.s.)
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divoece.
TO IVAN LOUIS FISCHER.—TAKE
NOTICE that CLARA FISCHER has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 985 of 1949
on the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance by the 17th day of
January 1950 at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court House King Street Sydney
and a copy of the petition may be had
without charge from S. S. MITCHELL,
Solicitor, of Bank Corner, Wickham, New-
castle, or his Sydney Agent, MR. J. K.
DIXON, Solicitor, of 115 Pitt Street, Syd-
ney.—(L.s.) J. DOUGHAN, Registrar in
Divorce.
Personal and Missing Friends.
TO DOROTHY LORNA STANLEY for-
merly of 2 Newmarket Street Northcote
and ARTHUR FELL formerly of 66 Vic-
toria Road Northcote Victoria.—TAKE
NOTICE that SYDNEY WILLIAM
STANLEY has instituted proceedings for
divorce against his wife the said Dorothy
Loma Stanley on the ground of adultery
and has joined you the said Arthur Fell
as co-respondent Unless you enter an
appearance in the Prothonotary’s Office of
the Supreme Court in Melbourne on or be-
fore the Twelfth day of December 1949
and file an answer on or before the
Twenty-second day of December 1949 the
case may proceed in your absence The
petition and affidavit in support thereof
may be inspected at our office.—GßAY
& GRAY, Solicitors, 840 Collins Street,
Melbourne, Proctors for the Petitioner.
Public Notice.
I, STYLIANOS STANLEY PERISTER-
IDIS, of Greek nationality, born at
Smyrna, Turkey, and resident 24 years
in Australia, now residing at 65 Thomson
Street, Darlinghurst, Sydney, intend to
apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
Buy
at Proud's
'A Great Name in Diamonds'
Engagement diamonds for your most cherished ring .
Diamonds studding watches and precious jewellery.
Proud’s stocks are large, so that prices
remain unchanged and your heirlooms
of tomorrow have lasting value.
w ia
6
aa
are
(Left) Square pillar setting, diamond shouldered. £4O
(Centre) Coronet setting, two diamonds in shoulder. £ 7O
(Right) Ladies diamond set Swiss watches. From £45
■
m
(Left) Eternity ring, three diamonds; engraved. £l3/10/-
(Centre) Eternity ring, jive diamonds; engraved. From £2l
(Lower Centre) Coronet, two diamonds each shoulder. £45
(Right) "Twin-lock". Ensemble, £BO. Also £52j10/?
df
rrouds
ABOVE RINGS AVAILABLE HI
18-ct. white or yellow
COLO
PROUDS LIMITED,
BOX 1502, G.P.0., SYDNEY. 8W272U
SHOW the world what you sell
eei«
SELL the world what you show
The Government of Canada invites you to show your
products at the Canadian International Trade Fair—the
door to dollar markets and a gateway to International
trade.
Sell your goods the most effective way—on the basis
of personal contact and actual samples. Sell them
simultaneously in the rich Canadian market and to the
world businessmen who come here from many nations
to buy the things they need.
Every facility is provided for producers and manu-
facturers from other countries to do International
business quickly, comfortably and conveniently.
SE
For all information concerning the Canadian International
Trade Fair please consult —
C. M. Croft, Commercial Counsellor for Canada, City
Mutual Life Building, Hunter and Bligh Streets, Sydney.
F. W. Fraser, Commercial Secretary for Canada, 83
William Street, Melbourne.
Canadian International Trade Fair
MA? 29 ~i4JNE 9. 1950
dfdf
TORONTO, CANADA
DEDICATED TO THE PROMOTION OP INTERNATIONAL TRADE &Y THE GOVERNMENT OF CANADA
rail to Shamshun, on the Hong
Kong border, with two trains a
day, and on the British side
separate trains take over the pas-
sengers.
The campaigning season
should develop towards Christ-
mas-time, but there is still a lot
of consolidation to be done and
it will take years to establish
effective local rule —that is, if it
ever is established.
The Royal Canadian
Navy.
“Ek Dum”: There wasn’t any
to speak of before World War
11, but it soon acquired a large
and skilful personnel and a wide
experience in sub-Arctic war-
fare. The part it played was
remarkable, most of its effort
being along small-ship lines and
convoy defence.
Its officers were basically
trained in the R.N. tradition and
acquired R.N. habits, which are
very pleasant habits, provided
one is brought up to them and
understands the football team-
spirit in which the R.N. works.
To make it a success, however,
it needs all the R.N. features,
the division system and implicit
co-operation under stiff old-
fashioned sea discipline from
top to bottom.
This apparently does not suit
the Canadian temperament,
which has the strange example
of the United States Navy be-
side it, a Navy which is run in
a way which makes R.N. officers
sometimes turn pale-green with
horror.
Early this year there was
something like mutiny in the
new aircraft-carrier Magnificent,
in the Caribbean, and in two
destroyers, one in the Mexican
Gulf and the other in the China
Sea,
A civilian commission which
has investigated found that what
happened amounted technically
to mutiny. It recommended
severe punishment for further
outbursts of the kind, but found
that there was some justification
for some of the complaints of
the mutineers.
Nobody has been hanged;
there has been no Bligh touch,
and the main result of the in-
quiry has been to produce
recommendations for Canada’s
abandonment of the Nelson
tradition and the changing of
the R.C.N. into a typically
Canadian institution with its
own traditions. The commis-
sion, however, expressed “abid-
ing admiration and respect for
the grand traditions and institu-
tions of the Royal Navy and
for their beneficent and steady-
ing force wherever British and
Canadian ships may sail.”
Canadians are now to wear
their own maple-leaf insignia.
Their officers will be trained in
their own colleges and training-
ships, followed by sea experience
in their own ships instead of in
those of the R.N. Where Can-
adian ships are not available
they will serve partly in R.N.
ships, but mainly in United States
ships.
Since their co-operation in
future is likely to be mainly
with the U.S.N., this seems to
be a sensible scheme, more
especially as there is a much
wider variety of experience to
be gained in the U.S.N. in these
days than in our own depleted
and socialised fleet.
The arrival of the small-ship
and submarine era makes the
position easier to meet. But the
R.A.N. is hardly likely to follow
suit.
Though it has its own college
and the service has been some-
what “democratised,” it has not
so far felt that the Nelson tradi-
tion isoutmoded
Berlin had a bad shaking-up
when the British Army exploded
two or three tons of T.N.T.
under the late Adolf Hitler’s
giant air-raid shelters, which were
used to house telephone ex-
changes and similar facilities
during the war. The Army set
out to chum the inside out of
the buildings, but the explosion
took its own course, expahding
outwards and smashing up every-
thing within about a quarter of
a mile. And beyond that, for
some distance, Berlin was still
quivering when last heard of.
* * * *
The rocket range at Woomera,
which is being described as Mr.
Chifley’s “proving-ground for
push-button warfare,”
has sprung to arms at the
psychological moment
and as a salute, no doubt,
to the election campaign.
Test-rockets, mostly 3in.
stuff, will be fired on the
Interim Missile Range,
which is designed for
testing equipment with
small weapons for the
edification of reporters
who will be squired by Mr.
Chambers, Minister for the
Army, It would be more
heartening if Mr. Chambers
could parade a mobile in-
fantry division for the Press —
a division armed with modern
equipment on a British or U.S,
Army scale and with transport.
This could have been provided
for much less than the money
that is likely to be spent on the
range, and seems to be a step
which comes before the “push-
button.” “A record of bombing
experiments and co-ordination
of rocket-firing tests” has been
made on a wire recorder. But
the sound of a thousand jet air-
craft wings would be more en-
couraging.


il
H
iiii
M
The greatest
safety measure
for engines..
h
Let your engine down
lightly. Protect it thoroughly,
by lubricating it with Shell
Motor Oil. Shell brings you every
post-war improvement in lubrication
quality. It protects every moving
part of your engine—improves its
performance—prolongs its life.
There is a correct Shell Oil or Grease
for every part of every make and
model of car. Ask for Shell, the
greatest safety measure, and see that
you get it.
for lubrication safety—say
SHELL MOTOR OIL
The Shell Company of Australia Limited
(Incorporated in Great Britain)
AL49IH
SHELL
to wwt
Most people who like cocktails like Martinis.
Remember that there are three versions, each
tasting noticeably different from the others.
m
£3
Half fill a Vz pint glass
with broken ice and add
1 dash of Orange Bitters.
1/3 glass Sweet Vermouth.
2/3 glass Vickers Gin.
Stir, strain into a cocktail glass.
Squeeze lemon-peel on top.
S
2/3 Vickers Gin.
1/3 Dry Vermouth.
Ice and shake well.
Serve with an olive.
»
l/ 2 glass Vickers Gin.
1/4 glass Sweet Vermouth.
1/4 glass Dry Vermouth.
VICKERS GIN
sif/f?yce /ZSO
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
JAP COMEBACK.
It’s really wonderful what
can happen in a mere moment
of time —if the “Yorkshire Post”
is right in its editorial comment;
“All in all, it is fair to say that
Japan today is qualified to take
her place among democratic
countries.”
Not quite so credulous, the
Edinburgh “Scotsmen,” which
has an able correspondent in the
Far East, editorially comments
that “Observers on the spot re-
main unconvinced that the
sweeping reforms which the
Americans have introduced are
likely to be permanent....
There is no evidence that the
Japanese are more than formally
democratic. Even the docility
with which they observe the pro-
visions of the democratic Con-
stitution is somewhat suspicious.
They might appear to be dis-
playing the same submission to
power which they previously
displayed to the Imperialists and
which they might well display to
them again.”
Also having its doubts, London
“Economist” points out that
“The Japanese record of aggres-
sion is such that a measure of
control over future Japanese
policy is vital”;
“There is a strong case for
controlling the use which Japan
makes of its economic strength,
and of preventing the develop-
ment of its industry for purposes
of war. On the other hand, it
is equally necessary to permit
Japan the utmost peaceable
economic expansion, in order to
offset the loss of its empire and
the continual growth of its popu-
lation. If Japan is to enjoy a
standard of living no higher than
that of 1930-34, American esti-
mates suggest that it will need
to export 30 per cent, more than
it did in 1937, and to import 50
per cent. more. To achieve this
expansion of trade, the Japanese
economy would itself have to be
expanded considerably, with
greater weight on industry. Such
expansion would make nonsense
of any attempt to curb future
Japanese aggression by limiting
the level of Japanese industry.”
On the Jap record, the
“Economist” further notes that
“The nations in the near vicinity
of Japan, with Australia and the
Philippines at their head, still
remember Japanese aggression
too vividly to accept Japan as a
peaceful neighbor. They are
also extremely perturbed about
the possibility of renewed
Japanese emigration. Australia
has refused point-blank to re-
ceive a trade mission, and would
certainly seek the support of the
[British] Commonwealth in re-
fusing to accept the new Ameri-
can political line.”
The British reaction the
“Economist” considers more
difficult to assess. “On the one
hand, British policy opposes the
opening of Japanese consular
offices and seems to be obstruct-
ing, for fear of Japanese com-
petition, the aim of restoring
Japan as a great trading nation.
On the other, it is quite clear that
Britain and the sterling area as
a whole are most anxious to ex-
pand their trade with Japan....
Britain’s political objections to
file revival of Japan as a trading
nation simply do not appear to
square with its economic policy.
“If the hesitations apparent in
British policy are dictated by
fear of Japanese competition—
in spite of the evidence to the
contrary provided by British
readiness to trade —it must be
said that, in the short run at
least, such fears can be grossly
exaggerated. Neither Com-
munist China nor South-east
Asia is ‘glutted.’ On the con-
trary, the needs throughout the
area of industrial-development
goods are unending, and if Japan
can supply them, China, Burma,
Indonesia and Siam can, in re-
turn, produce the foodstuffs and
raw materials which Japan needs
and cannot, without indefinite
dollar subsidies, continue to buy
in the United States.
“The development of such
trade, far from exacerbating the
problems of European traders,
could draw off ‘harmful Japan-
ese competition’ from European
markets in Africa and South
America. But even if the risk
of competition could never be
entirely eliminated, the British
Commonwealth and Western
Europe can hardly refuse to
agree to American policy, since
it is clear they have no alterna-
tive to offer. The United States
cannot continue indefinitely to
subsidise the Japanese economy
to the tune of $4OO million a
year; and when the subsidies
cease, Japan must literally ex-
port or starve.”
Towards a solution, the
“Economist” suggests that
America can be asked to modify
its policy of trade with China so
that both Britain and Japan can
find there whatever trade is
available. “But in return the
United States would be justified
in asking Britain to bring its
economic and its political re-
actions to Japan into harmony.
At present the sterling area pro-
poses a great increase in trade,
but no political change in Japan’s
ex-enemy status. It is an
illogical position and should be
brought to an end.
“American policy might be
made more palatable to Britain
and the [British] Commonwealth
if the new line were accompanied
by a firm agreement on future
security. The maintenance in
Japan of an American and
[British] Commonwealth base
and an Allied garrison would
give an assurance against the re-
surgence of Japanese militarism
and would, at the same time,
reassure the Japanese that the
Allies have no intention of
abandoning them to Com-
munism. It would meet the
legitimate fears of America’s
associates, and it would permit
them to join without reservation
in the new American policy o
restoring Japanese prosperity.”
U.S. Work Incentives.
A British steel-founders’ “pro-
ductivity team,” drawn from
supervisory, technical and work-
shop levels of the industry, has
come out with a report on its
investigations in the U.S. this
year; its findings unanimous ;
among them, that for Britain
“the alternative to high produc-
tion is starvation,” and that in
terms of man-hours per ton pro-
ductivity is higher in the U.S.
than in Britain by something
between 50 and 90 per cent.
Noting that “There is a wide-
spread productivity - conscious-
ness in the U.S. and recognition
that high productivity is a bene-
fit to all concerned,” the report
states that “at all levels incentives
are in evidence.”
Monetary incentives were
found to be effective because
“taxation does not nullify or
nearly nullify the extra reward
for extra effort and consumer
goods are in supply to absorb
the extra earnings.”
Incentives, the report further
points out, include not only the
high standard of living. Also,
“In the absence of unemploy-
ment benefits comparable with
British practice, the conse-
quences of falling out of a job
can be disastrous to a wage-
earner.” In any case, high pro-
ductivity is the golden road to a
better-rated job.
Observing that the physical
basis of high productivity is the
use of machines, the report com-
ments that there appears to be
little tendency in the labor unions
to press any policy that would
act in restriction of production
The report insists that high
productivity must be established
as a touchstone of industrial
conduct. Any rule, practice or
policy acting against high pro-
ductivity notwithstanding its
original purpose injures the
community as a whole.
Some form of direct incentive
is essential, and the incentive
must be properly shared by
manual workers, supervisors,
managers and technicians and,
in fairness, by owners and in-
vestors also. Customers must
gain through reduced prices. In-
creased wages would be useless
as an incentive without an in-
crease in the supply of consumer
goods.
N.Z. Free-medicine.
Taking its information from
a booklet on Social Security Ser-
vices in New Zealand, by Dr. E.
W. Maples, London “Times,” in
an editorial, has pointed to some
interesting contrasts between
N.Z. and British free-medicine
practice.
Dr. Maples, visiting N.Z., was
greatly impressed by the dental
service for children there. This
service, in the “Times” com-
ment, “does all that the British
‘priority’ service should be doing
for children, and impresses all
visitors from other countries.”
It is based “on specially-trained
hygienists rather than on dentists
of the conventional kind.”
In other respects, however, the
comparison favors Britain. For
example: Britain pays the
general practitioner an annual
capitation fee for each patient;
N.Z. pays him a fee for each
service rendered to a patient, in-
cluding the repeating of a pre-
scription for medicine. The
capitation - fee system, Dr-
Maples suggests, is far prefer-
able to the method of payment
used in N.Z.
“Many doctors there,” declares
the “Times,” “are said to have
succumbed to the strong tempta-
tion offered to multiply visits
and services to patients (includ-
ing the unnecessary prescribing
of drugs) in order to enlarge the
bills presented to the State for
payment. In contrast, medical
specialists and research workers
are seriously underpaid; the
hospitals have great difficulties in
obtaining staff, so that few ex-
cept urgent cases can be ad-
mitted ; and ‘there is now no
encouragement for the doctor to
obtain further qualifications or
to go in for any form of research.
Under present conditions a good
mien, a pleasant personality, and
possibly a little knowledge re-
ceive the plums of the medical
service.”
Distribution of drugs in N.Z.
is described as “lavish.” In 1947
£1,540,000 was spent on pharma-
ceutical benefits for a population
of 1,880,000 people, or 16s. sd.
a head. The British pharma-
ceutical budget for the present
year is just under £21,000,000
for about 48,000,000 people,
roughly Bs. Bd. a head.
On that contrast the “Times”
comments that “If there is some
worry about excessive prescrib-
ing in Britain, there is widespread
anxiety” on the same score in
N.Z., where an official committee
has reported that the health
service has encouraged the
public to resort to doctors for
trivial complaints, creating a
“patient-pressure” on doctors
only too easily satisfied by pre-
scribing medicines for which
neither doctor nor patient would
be charged. The committee con-
cluded that patients should be
made to pay part of the cost of


w
m
WM
m s
©
r/M..
Mi
WZijilii
~iii
in m
i a i
nih
lit '1
it.
U in
111
f \
£
It’s new ! A streamlined Chrome Set that you’ll
delight to use and be proud to own. The automatic
shaving angle and Superkeen “Gem” Blades of sur-
gical steel, give cool, clean, drag-free shaves that
keep you neat and avoid 5 o’clock shadow.
New “GEM” de luxe Chrome Sets
“Gem” Chromium Plated Streamline Model in handsome
case of Ivory Plastic with 5 “Gem” double-life Blades. 20/-.
* Also new Chrome Strop Outfit with automatic stropper, as
illustrated, complete with 8 Blades in Ivory Plastic Gift
Case. 35/-.
“Gem” Double-life Blades, 5 for 1/9. Sold Everywhere, *
New GEM
Streamlined Chrome Sets
, for
every prescript » P
drugs needed regularly ; an idea
Britain’s Socialists have now
been forced to adopt. -
This Crowded World.
Scientists of the kind that
apparently find out everything
are quoted by N. Y. •■Tim=s S
for the staggering estimate that
this planet’s population has risen
Baltimore (U.S.A.) “Sun.”
HISTORY OF ENGLAND.
from some 400,000,000 in 1630
to a present 2,300,000,000.
How on earth they found out
the first figure (allowing the
second as possible) isn’t stated.
Further findings o f the
scientists: Today there are less
than two acres of cultivable land
per person, while two and one
half acres per person are re-
quired to produce minimum
food needed for health. More-
over, the land is being spoiled.
Billions of tons of topsoil are
lost through man-made erosion
each year; and it takes natural
forces hundreds of years to build
one inch of topsoil.
Another finding is that man,
hitherto depending largely on
plants and animals for his food,
will, in this shrinking world,
have to depend henceforth more
and more on the sea.
A Tale of Two Years.
Editorially related by London
“Daily Express”;
1935 Britain’s gold and dollar
reserves totalled £1250
million.
1948 Britain’s reserves down
to £650 million.
1935 Britain’s foreign invest-
ments were £3OOO million,
bringing in £205 million of
income yearly.
1948 Britain’s investments
abroad had dropped to
£l2OO million, bringing in
£5O million. Still being
sold up at the rate of £lBO
million a year.
1935 Balance of trade: £lO
million in Britain’s favor,
1948 Balance of trade: £l2O
million against Britain.
1935 Foreign and Empire
financial aid: Nil.
1948 Foreign and Empire
financial aid: £320
million.
1935 Foreign and Empire
debts: £1036 million.
1948 Foreign and Empire
debts: £4857 million.
Empire First.
These days they may have the
appearance of rearguard troops
merely fighting a delaying action
covering a retreat, but at any
rate there are at least a few re-
maining stalwarts of Empire
holding the old banner aloft in
Britain.
One of them, Empire Indus-
tries Association and British
Empire League president L. S.
Amery, advocates preferential
trading within the British Com-
monwealth as the best means of
recovering British financial
stability. Referring to the
success of Empire preference in
1932, he has told a London
Press conference that in spite of
that success the Socialist Gov-
ernment in Britain after the war
went back on that policy in
order to obtain immediate
assistance from Washington: it
had “accepted a veto on all
fruitful co-operation for build-
ing up the resources of the
Empire.”
British recovery from the
present crisis, Mr. Amery in-
sisted, would be possible if the
British Commonwealth and
Britain’s European neighbors
became preferential trading
areas without any veto on the
extent to which they could trade
jsrith each other. Devaluation
had helned indirectlv to foster
P y
Empire trade, since It had thrown
protection round the sterling
area and those countries which
j - tb Rrit „: n tt-
had devalued with Britain. He
looked to the stimulation of
Empire and European trade to
restore the balance of world
trade far more than to any
limited increase of exports to
the United States.
Another of the old brigade,
Lord Beaverbrook, in advanc-
ing a comprehensive political
programme, which, if imple-
mented, could restore to Britain
“plenty and prosperity,” makes
Empire the very first plank:
“The Empire comes first. It
must. For without the Empire
not only is there no hope for
the future. There is no future.”
He advocates establishing a
system of Empire Free Trade —
“the extension of Imperial
Preference to the point where,
as far as possible, trade flows
free and unrestricted between
each part of our Empire.”
Red Dean.
London “Time and Tide”
editorial comment on Dr.
Hewlett Johnson’s latest visit to
his earthly paradise might excuse
the Red Dean’s seeing very red
indeedj
“It is perhaps hardly to be ex-
pected that anyone who moves
so easily in and out of the Iron
Curtain, whose very eyes have
seen Stalin in the flesh, should
concern himself with a mere
human issue such as the desire
of a few British husbands to be
reunited with their Russian
wives. It is hardly to be ex-
pected ; even though the Dean is
the representative of a church
which still endeavors to uphold
the sanctity of marriage
“Dr. Hewlett Johnson was
particularly impressed with the
amount of building which he had
seen in Moscow, He has surely
heard some talk in ‘reactionary’
circles of forced labor in Soviet
Russia, What a unique oppor-
tunity to refute it! Did the
Dean ask to be allowed to visit
any of those clusters of camps
around the White Sea or in
northern and eastern Siberia —
reactionary writers have listed
over one hundred and twenty
such camps—where conditions
approximating to, or identical
with, slavery are alleged to exist?
Would Marshal Joseph (‘He was
kind to me’) Stalin have refused
his request?”
Dragnet Digest.
J. Bull’s China Policy.—Forecast-
ing Britain’s de jure recognition
to the Chinese Communist Govern-
ment, London “Daily Telegraph”
diplomatic correspondent said the
British decision would be made on
what is seen as a strictly practical,
rather than a sentimental, basis.
“London does not conceive that any
concessions could be wrung from the
Communists in return for recognition.
But non-recognition of the established
fact, while it would have no special
inconvenience to the Communists,
might have definite disadvantages for
Western long-term interests.”
* * * *
Britain’s Television. —As announced
by Lord President of the Council
Herbert Morrison, the new television
station at Birmingham, expected to
be working by Christmas, “will be
the most powerful of its kind in the
world.” , It will serve a potential
audience of 6,000,000. Another sta-
tion, to be begun next year at
Huddersfield, and probably finished
in 1951, will serve 11,000,000 more,
and when the present planned pro-
gramme is completed, about 1954,
there will be television for about 80
per cent, of the population of the
United Kingdom.
* * * *
Speeding European Union. A
Washington report in N. Y. “Herald
Tribune” is authority for the state-
ment that “an American policy deci-
sion of incalculable importance is
now in the making,” designed to try
to establish a European Union a lot
earlier than its most optimistic sup-
porters in Europe would believe pos-
sible. For what it may be worth;
“It is being seriously proposed that
the whole weight of American in-
fluence be brought to bear to pro-
mote what has always seemed a dis-
rant dream—a real emnnmir union
JfJ lC p," n '°
o t e continental nations of Lu op .
Moreover, the objective would be to
bnng this union into existence, not
in seventy years or seven, but in
seven months.
* * *
German-Polish Frontier. “At
present,” comments a London “Time
and Tide” writer, “there is probably
no German in public life, whether in
Western Germany or in the Soviet
zone, who in his heart accepts that
frontier [the Oder-Neisse line] as final,
No one can justify the Oder-Neisse
line on historical or ethnographical
lines. It was not a frontier that the
much-maligned treaty-makers of Ver-
sailles would for a moment have
considered.” Despite which, the
writer then proceeds: “But that
frontier is a fait accompli. Since
1945 the Poles have settled in those
territories in their hundreds of thou-
sands. Many of them, probably
most, come from that part of Poland
beyond the Curzon Line which Russia
has annexech They have no o
argues, Britain “should inflexibly
oppose any modification of the Oder-
/rontter. , ,
Britain’s Election Issue. —Summed
up by Mr. Anthony Eden at the Con-
servatives’ annual conference: “The
real issue of the General Election
will be whether we are to suffer more
Socialism, with its rigid and bureau-
cratic methods so unsuited to the
economy of our country and so alien
to the whole spirit of our people, or
wbelber we WJ Qj build once again on
tbe sound foundation of enlightened
f ree enterprise. It might be that
Russia can work Socialism—she has
her own immense internal resources
and there political freedom has not
been known—but for the 50m. people
in our island, whose life depends
on the countless services we render
to every land and the wide range
of goods we sell, it spells disaster,
Britain lives by diversity; Socialism
means uniformity. Yet given a fair
field there is nothing that British
industry and the British people could
not do. One thing above all is
lacking—a Government worthy of the
task of the hour.”
Portents of War. —London Ob-
server” comment, differing widely
from some current professions of
optimism: “The continued enforced
divis i o n of Europe, and the atomic
armame nts competition which has
now begun w m eventually make war
ineyitable No further peace con-
ference j s worth while which has not
on I ‘s ta r bbs hmem E of te an/
Europe con-
cS’prod™Srfil
results unless the West is fully united
and fully prepared, morally an
physically, to face the consequence
of failure.”
* * * *
J. Bull Lacks the Bomb. —Deplored
by London “Daily Express”: “It is
reported that Britain is now in a
position to make atom-bombs. That
is not a safeguard. Security calls
for a stockpile of atom-bombs ready
for use. No such stockpile exists.
Britain does not possess a single
bomb. America may have 400 at
least.”
* * * *
Positively Not Cricket. —Staunch
supporter of Britain’s Socialist
Government, the Co-operative Move-
ment sheet, “Reynolds News,” feels
like the proverbial bitten hand, be-
cause (1) Co-operative Insurance is
now threatened with nationalisation,
and (2> “in certain circumstances
Government retail shops might be
opened.” On which London “Daily
Express” dryly comments: “The
Co-ops, which have enjoyed a privi-
leged position against the private
shopkeeper for so long, now fear an
even more privileged trading com-
petitor. ‘Reynolds News’ throws out
its chest at this challenge and de-
clares: ‘The Co-operative Movement
shares the ideals of British Socialism,
But it is not, and will not become,
a minor partner in the common pur-
pose.’ So Mr. Attlee had better look
out. The Cabinet might view without
alarm the departure of Mr. A. V.
Alexander, the Co-op’s chief orna-
ment. But the loss of thousands of
Co-operative votes would be another
matter entirely.”


"For Business or Pleasure
fly to HONG KONG
a £ a
—LESS THAN 30 HOURS AWAY."
f
/
A
Sv
run
r l *- _ rr
nTVr^nr.
pSWnfir'
saexa^
ns
h
s>
PLY by comfortable Skymaster on this direct route
—Sydney, Darwin, Labuan (North Borneo),
Hong Kong, and save days of valuable travel
time. You’ll enjoy fine meals in the air, a first
class personal steward service, and you’ll arrive in
Hong Kong, completely refreshed, less than
30 hours after leaving Sydney.
HQMC KONG
LAEUAN
OAR WIN
SYDNEY
Consult your travel agent or
AUSTRALIA'S INTERNATIONAL AIRLINE
in association with British Overseas Airways Corporation,
FAINT HEART
NE'ER WON
FAIR LADY
h- mm
am
Don't expect your wife
to change a tyre!
Women don't like changing tyres, even If
they can! In any case, roadside tyre
changes are always a nuisance
often dangerous.
Avoid the hazards
and inconveni-
ence of tube
failures by
equipping your
car with new
Goodyear Tubes.
tyres
G\veV ovH
with
GOO D#wEAR
HEAVY DUTY TUBES
Every new tyre deserves a new Goodyear Tube
73-109.
SMOKE-OH!
PIMMS No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“I have heard the Snowy say, T
will work for Australia; I will work
for Australia!’” — G.-G. McKell.
Some of our miners should go
and listen to it.
4* 4* 4*
“Most women can tailor their legs
and ankles to personal specifications.”
—Sunday paper.
Those who can’t wear long
frocks.
4* 4* 4*
“The only way to impress your
husband is with a rolling-pin.”
—Letter to Sydney “D.T.’•’
But there are more subtle
ways of squeezing out his
dough.
“The best of friendships cannot
withstand a shared kitchen.”
—Senator Annabelle Rankin.
Those shared over a sink are
sunk.
4* 4* 4*
“You couldn’t have anything more
charming for a bridesmaid’s dress
than pastel organdie.”
— Women’s paper.
But a pretty bridesmaid is
also an advantage.
4* 4* 4*
For sale; Invalid chair and basket
ball.” — Suburban paper.
Owner has taken up bowls.
“It’s better to cheat a little than
to appear flat-chested.”
— Woman’s paper.
By all means keep abreast of
the times.
“A charge against a woman private-
investigator said that she had bodily
transferred a woman across a hall
into the bed of a strange man, then
taken a photograph.”
Just to bolster up her case.
On Similar Lines.
“ ‘My course has abundant prece-
dent, most notable being the behavior
of the present Prime Minister, Mr.
Chifiey, and Dr. Evatt. In earlier
years they, too, threw down the
gauge to Trades Hall tyrants,’ Falstein
said.”
In days of chivalry when knights
Were wont to set a wrong to
rights
By combat in a tournament.
Or with vainglorious intent
Risked death to grasp at empty
fame
And please some damosel or
dame,
It was the custom of the age
To throw a gauntlet as a gage,
But when our Sunday papers
spell
The word with “u” thrown in
as well
Please don’t decry their ignor-
ance.
For this one meant, there’s just
a chance.
By local precedents confused.
The standard sort Ben Chifiey
used.
D. H. E.
A Harmless Whiff.
“The Opposition has exposed the
‘lethal’ blows at Communism to be
no more than ‘a light anaesthetic.’ ”
—Queensland Liberal Senator Neil
O’Sullivan.
Of course it wasn’t thoughts of
losing votes
That made Ben Chifiey lash the
Communistic
Strikemongers who, for years,
have got our goats.
But deep concern and motives
altruistic
And all the things “solicitude”
connotes.
With gentle tongue and putty-
tempered sword
Fie smote their doctrines, proven
since seditious,
And timorously, plainly over-
awed,
Rebuked them for their attitude
pernicious
Suggesting that it was to be de-
plored.
He didn’t trounce with lethal
blows, alas!
These Red apostles of a code
phrenetic.
He merely once again displayed
a crass
Ineptitude by using ancesthetic
As harmless in effect as laughing
gas.
ED.
The “Deciding” Factor.
“Dr. Evatt has decided that bank-
nationalisation will not be a vital
issue in the coming elections.”
—“S. M. Herald.’’
After having been punched
all around the ring for one
minute 42 seconds after the start
of the 15-round contest to deter-
mine whether he or his opponent
would qualify to challenge the
“In the book she hits him with an axe.”
world title-holder in their
weight-division. Rusty Gates
connected with a beautiful chin
lead on to the right glove of his
rival and immediately trans-
ferred his stance from a vertical
to a horizontal one. After he
had been carried to his dressing-
room and the stellar galaxy be-;
gan to clear slightly Rusty was
asked by one of the Press boys
as to what his future plans would
be in view of the quick and de-
cisive manner in which he had
been vanquished.
Rusty sat groggily up, tapped
his cauliflower ear to stop the
bells ringing and said: “Whad-
dam I doin’? Whaddayer think
I’m goin’ to do—challenge de
holder, o’ course! I’ve decided
dat tonight’s fight ain’t goin’ to
have no bearin’ on me havin’ a
crack at da woild title-holder.”
“Ladies and gentlemen,” said
the chairman of the board of
directors addressing shareholders
at the annual general meeting.
“As you will observe, the com-
pany has had the worst year in
its history: a record loss of
£35,000, which makes the accu-
mulated losses for the past four
years £BO,OOO. It is regretted
that we have had to pass all
dividends over that period, and
I must warn you that the out-
look for the coming financial
year will, if anything, be blacker.
“It is not that trading is not
buoyant—as a matter of fact, we
are still enjoying with our par-
ticular products a seller’s mar-
ket, with top prices likely to
hold. Our problem revolves en-
tirely around the question of
expenditure.
“Owing to the extra work
that has fallen on your directors
in trying to keep down expenses
the board decided during the
year to increase directors’ fees
—these, you will note, have
risen by only a modest two
thousand pounds. In view, too,
of the uncertainty of the occu-
pations, if any, followed else-
where by various relatives of my
fellow-directors, Messrs. Bortz
and Chizzla, and myself, execu-
tive positions, none of them
carrying less than one thousand
pounds p.a., were created in
your company’s organisation for
them, and though they are not
expected to be of any use, we
feel it will add prestige to the
company to be paying impres-
sive salaries. Also, directors’
travelling and general expenses
have been lifted by another
three thousand p.a. The special
entertainment allowance for the
chairman was raised from three
hundred p.a. to one thousand
five hundred pounds p.a., and
nobody, I feel assured, will cavil
at this essential item.
“I mention these things
specifically in view of the im-
pending voting for vacancies on
the board. As you are aware,
my fellow-directors, Mr. Bortz
and Mr. Chizzla, and myself re-
tire automatically by rotation
and offer ourselves for re-elec-
tion. I have decided that in the
voting the question of manage-
ment and of expenses will not
become a vital issue.”
After he had slammed the gear
of his fully-laden 10-ton trailer-
truck into reverse and trodden
the accelerator to the floor the
driver stopped on hearing the
crunch and staggered out of his
cabin. He was still trying to
focus his swivelled eyes on to
the wreck of the brand-new
£5OOO Rolls-Royce he had con-
certinaed against the wall when
the car-owner rushed up, livid
with rage.
“You drunken swine!” he
roared. “Look what you’ve
done —what are you going to do
about it?”
The truck - driver leered
owlishly at the R.R. owner.
“Well,” he said, “to tell y’ the
truth, mate, I’ve deshided to
accept y’r apolozhies an’ ferget
the whole thing.”
Following strong and irrefut-
able evidence by a string of
reputable Crown witnesses, with
only a feeble attempt at an alibi
put forward by the accused, the
jury, after only a few minutes’
deliberation, returned to give a
unanimous verdict of guilty
against Basher Botlow on a
charge of robbery with violence.
Before the judge proceeded to
sentence the jail-recorder gave
details of the accused’s list of
previous convictions. As he at
last finished reeling off the long
list and before the judge could
speak Basher held up his hand.
“Yerroner,” he announced
hoarsely. “Touchin’ on that
there tripe the recorder’s just
bin spoutin’. Bein’ a good-
’earted cove ’oo don’t bear no
malice to nobody, I reckon to
make a vital issue o’ that now
would be a bad mistake. So
I’ve decided that we won’t take
no notice of it in considerin’ the
sentence.”
BO.
Taking a Legal Partner.
“Harvard, famous American uni-
versity, has lifted a 132-year-old ban.
In future women students will be
admitted to the law school.”
I’ll guarantee that ladies show
Appreciation of the chances
This change has brought, since
it enhances
Their opportunities, although
Few women ever grace the
heights
Reached by our manly legal
lights.
For brainy unattractive sorts
Who still for marriage have a
yearning
May find within this seat of
learning
The way to win while learning
“torts"
A husband with a sparkling gem
Of argument “ad hominem.”
BERT.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
mm#
ill
m
.. ini!
iii
urn
n:i
mm
:
ROOM-ONI/T RATES
Single Rooms—
From 8/- per night
Double Rooms—
From 15/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless :
", METROPOLE, f ‘
Sydney.
Telephones:
8W2061 (9 lines)
df
J=CJ-
m
nIJSVx
f
m
*■ Kl
h*M
M*
?■ f
f A
There are times which
call for something better
than the merely very
good, and demand the
unquestionable best.
Where cigarettes are concerned
the man of taste is guided by
the words 66 Benson & Hedges,
Old Bond Street, London 99
—for all those occasions
when only the best will do.
m
BY APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS TO
HIS MAJESTY THE KING
V SUPER VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
BY
Bensonmd Hedges
LTD
OLD BOND STREET, LONDON
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
And so 1949 goes down as
“Foxzami’s Year” in turf reckoning,
with, the Melbourne Cup won, and
won well, by L. G. Robinson’s four-
year-old son of Nizami-Honeywood,
trained by D. Lewis and ridden by
W. Fellows.
In his splendid “Book of the
Horse,” British authority Brian
Vesey-Fitzgerald comments: “Roi
Herode was not an outstanding race-
horse, and in his day so little was
thought of him that the artist who
painted a picture of Querido (who
beat him by a neck in the Grand
Prix du President) merely put Roi
Herode in the distance as a grey
smudge. The smudge has left its
golden hoof-mark on posterity and
Querido is a forgotten query.”
One doesn’t need be a black-
tracker to spot some of the said
golden hoof-marks well impressed on
die Australian turf in recent years;
two Melbourne Cups and two Oaks
Stakes in three years represent gold
in payable quantities.
Roi Herode was bred in 1904 at
Martinvast stud (France) by Baron
de Schickler, a very wealthy turf
identity of the day who was respon-
sible for what has become known as
the “Grey Revival” —to quote Vesey-
Fitzgerald again, “a faint spark
which had flickered almost to ashes
and sprang suddenly to a glorious
flame, destroying the rooted British
conviction that grey was not a win-
ning color.” Roi Herode was im-
forted to Ireland and there sired The
etrarch the “spotted wonder.”
The Tetrarch sired the very speedy
filly Mumtaz Mahal, and she, mated
with the English St. Leger winner
Firdaussi, produced in France in
1937 the grey Nizami. Nizami com-
menced stud duties in New Zealand
in 1942, and his New Zealand-bred
progeny have included Hiraji (Mel-
bourne Cup), Nizam’s Ring (Oaks),
Grey Nurse (Oaks) and, now, Fox-
zami; unlike the other three, how-
ever, Foxzami is a bay. Nizami now
stands at F. W. Hughes’s Kooba
stud; his first Australian-bred progeny
are racing this season, and already
have the Breeders’ Plate to their
credit.
Like Nizami’s previous Melbourne
Cup-winning son Hiraji, Foxzami is
out of a Foxbridge mare—Honey-
wood (by Foxbridge from Air Lassie).
Bred at Trelawney Stud, Cambridge
(N.Z.), Foxzami was purchased for
800 guineas at the National Yearling
Sales; he gave owner Robinson, who
hails from Lord Howe Island, a Mel-
bourne Cup win with his first starter,
jockey Fellows a winner at his first
ride in the big race, and trainer Dan
Lewis a Melbourne Cup win after
some 50 years’ endeavor.
The Cup was run on a glue-like
track, the winner’s time being 3.28£,
against the record of 3.21 set by
Rimfire last year. Contributing to
the slow time was the successful
attempt of the leaders to slow down
the field in the middle stages—the
result was a sudden bunchihg-up of
the field, with several runners suffer-
ing interference and crowding. With
Bruin doing most of the pacemaking,
Foxzami was always in a good posi-
tion. Bruin was well clear approach-
ing the home turn, but Hoyle moved
up quickly to collar the leader, and,
forging to the front, gave his sup-
porters a moment or two of jubila-
tion. However, though resisting most
stubbornly, Hoyle was gradually worn
down by Foxzami, who drew away
at the finish to score by a length and
a half. Bad luck for Hoyle’s owner,
Mrs. Reddan, who had another Cup
runner-up in Peter a few years back.
After being knocked about badly
in the early scrimmaging, Benvolo
came home very well for third
money ahead of Bruin. Then fol-
lowed the Victoria Derby winner
Delta, whose performance, from a
weight-for-age viewpoint, impressed
as about the most noteworthy in the
race. Delta carried weight-for-age of
7.6, while those who finished ahead
of him had, commencing with Fox-
zami, 61b., 261 b., 191 b. and 351 b.
under weight-for-age.
The weather conditions on Oaks
Day would have been considered a
pretty poor show even for a Grand
National meeting in England—bitterly
cold, with pelting rain and a fierce
wind. There was compensation, how-
ever, in seeing the champion filly
Chicquita notch up another grand
win in the principal event —her seventh
in a row from eight starts. Chicquita
had a change of riders, with A.
Breasley up, for the Oaks, and, start-
ing at the surprisingly liberal odds of
7 to 4 on, she won as she chose
from Happy Medium and Evening
Light. Chicquita is to be spelled
now until the Autumn. Oaks Day
also saw the Genetout colt Dickens
atone for some of his unlucky per-
formances in the three-year-old
classics by downing Comedy Prince,
Beau Gem and others over the mile
of the weight-for-age Linlithgow
Stakes.
By way of a change the weather
was passing fair on Saturday for the
final day of the V.R.C. spring meet-
ing, when principal events
were the C. B. Fisher Plate
and the V.R.C. Handicap.
Run at standard weight-for-
age, over 12 furlongs, the
£2500 Fisher Plate attracted
only five starters, and saw
Dickens very easily beat what
must have been some pretty
tired horses; Comic Court,
for one, must surely have had
all the racing he can take for
a while. Nevertheless Dickens,
too, has had a by no means
leisurely time in recent weeks,
following up several runs dur-
ing the Sydney spring racing
with starts in the Caulfield
Guineas, Caulfield Cup, Vic-
toria Derby and Linlithgow
Stakes. In the Plate, Dickens
led most of the trip to score
by four lengths from King’s
Ransom, with Vagabond third
followed by Comic Court and Bengal.
Raced in the same interests as
Columnist, Dickens is a chestnut colt
by Genetout from the imported mare
Port Dombey, a half-sister to the
successful Felcrag.
In other races at Flemington on
Saturday, Clement had the final word
in a thrilling tussle with favorite Sun
Lyric in the V.R.C. Handicap;
Londonderry at twelves beating other
two-year-olds in the Flemington
Stakes and Simpkin at 33 to 1 win-
ning the Final Handicap also pleased
bookmakers rather than most
punters; but The Feline and Synco-
pation, winning respectively the
Macleod Steeple and the Ottawa
Stakes, were favorites.
* * * *
The most immediately obvious
feature of Saturday’s racing at
Canterbury was, as it had been at
Moorefield the previous week, a
remarkably fast track. Race-record
times were equalled or lowered in
five of the eight events.
Setting the pace, as it were, the
meeting opened with Titian (B. Smith)
clocking 1.1 to equal the course
record for 5 furlongs in winning the
Two-year-old Maiden Stakes (fillies)
by four lengths. However, Titian’s
time didn’t last long enough to be
even entered in the record books.
Winning the following race, a similar
event for colts and geldings, English,
Standard (G. Moore) clocked 6ffjsec.
Curiously, both Titian and English
Standard are full-blood relatives to
Derby winners, Titian (Valiant Chief-
Bandrol) being a sister to Valiant
Crown (A.J.C. Derby), while English
Standard (Mr. Standfast-Golden S.)
is a brother to Prince Standard (Vic-
toria Derby).
English Standard landed a tidy
betting plunge, but it was not in the
same class as the one which came off
when Blue Lass (N. Daly) won the
Flying; the Beau Port mare was
backed from 16 to 1 down to fours.
Blue Lass ran very wide at the turn
and finished right under the judge’s
box, but she had nearly three lengths
to spare from Smooth Action and
Blue Ensign. Also turning on a
fairish finishing effort, the oft-
disappointing Cape Neddick (W.
Cook) finally came good in winning
the November Handicap from Air
Flare and Silver Buzz.
As far as the bookies were con-
cerned, Pocket Money proved aptly
named when he won the Queensland
Derby at Eagle Farm on Saturday.
The bagmen had four horses equal-
favorites at 3 to 1, while Pocket
Money started at 20 to 1; he won
by a half-length from Mr. Sunray
and Spellman, two of the co-favorites.
Bred at P. L. Tyler’s Puen Buen stud,
Scone, Pocket Money is a bay colt
by Le Grand Due from Nagoya.
Beautiful breeding, Le Grand Due
being by Blenheim from La
Douairiere by Spearmint, while
Nagoya is by Magpie from Valwyne
by Valais.
* * * ♦
For Randwick (before accept-
ances): —
Kindergarten Stakes: Titian, 1;
Niaranga, 2; Rippling Tide, 3.
Novice: Druid, 1; Lord Chancellor,
2; Purple Prince, 3. Junior Stakes:
English Standard, 1; Beau Gene, 2;
Court Session, 3. Horsley Handicap:
Blue Diamond, 1; Aqua Regis, 2;
“If you don't mind I'll sit this one out."
Skip Court, 3. Narellan Handicap:
Dona Marcheta, 1; Chancellor, 2;
Corosan, 3, Milperra Handicap:
Galway Bay, 1; Cape Neddick, 2;
Johnny Zero, 3. Leumeah Handicap:
Leetona, 1; Lone Duke, 2; Pro-
tect, 3.
Williamstown Cup: Proctor, 1;
Benvolo, 2; Hoyle, 3.
* * * *
Sid Patterson, the 144-stone crack
Melbourne cyclist who has been
driving his pedals to some order
abroad, caused a London “Daily
Mail” sports writer to coin what
seems to be a new phrase. After
Patterson had beaten Bannister
(Eng.), Heid (U.S.A.) and Vagnhan-
sen (Denmark) in three contests in
London the writer described him as
“a star that will take some shooting
down,”
Australian cyclists have been turn-
ing a smart pedal also in the U.S.A.,
where they have always been highly
regarded. Last week in New York
Alf Strom and Reg Arnold cleaned
up the best American and Continental
teams in the international six-day
race —one of the most gruelling tests
the game knows.
* ♦ * *
Due to arrive in Australia next
Saturday, Jaroslav Drobny has been
paid the compliment of No. 1 seed-
ing for the N.S.W. tennis champion-
ships which kick off at White City
(Sydney) on November 18. Next to
Drobny in the seedings for the men’s
singles is the Australian title-holder,
Frank Sedgman, followed by Brom-
wich and Sidwell. Both Drobny and
Sedgman were beaten in the Wimble-
don singles this year by the American
Schroeder.
♦ * * *
When Keith Miller was omitted
from the side to tour S’Africa there
was a great hullabaloo, with all
manner of nasty suggestions heaped
upon the selectors in general and
Bradman in particular. A couple of
weeks back former Test player J.
Fingleton raised the fury afresh with
some articles of criticism in South
African papers. Bradman, as usual,
sensibly said nothing, but he found a
doughty champion in former Test
umpire J, Scott, who leaped to the
defence with some pretty pungent
criticism of Fingleton, Possibly for-
tunately, before the boys could really
get to grips, it has been decided,
belatedly, that Miller is to join the
team. Knocked about in a car
smash, bowler Bill Johnston will be
unable to play for a couple of
months, and Miller is the answer to
an urgent call for reinforcements.
Actually the tourists don’t appear
to be in any great need of reinforce-
ments. Completing the match v.
Natal at Durban, Morris and
Moroney, in the second innings, put
up a record opening partnership of
259. The match ended in a draw,
with Australia 275 and 2 for 280
(closed); Natal 144 and 5 for 218.
Followed then a one-day picnic
match v. the Government House XI
at Pretoria, after which the troops
moved on to tackle N.E. Transvaal
at Johannesburg. With McCool (3
for 21) and Johnson (4 for 44) doing
the damage, the Transvaal men, bat-
ting first, were back in the pavilion
with 135 on the board. The Aus-
tralians in reply had lost 2 for 234,
with two days to play, as this went
to press.
* * * ♦
The opening Sheffield Shield match,
N.S.W. v. Q’land, in Brisbane, pro-
duced a rattling good finish. The
’Walers hit up 248 in the first innings,
Queensland replied with 118, back
came N.S.W. with 137, and the home
team was left needing 268 to win.
They had plenty of time, and it
looked an easy job until the wily
Toshack began to get among ’em.
Toshack finished up with figures of
5 for 59, and that finished Queens-
land, 15 runs short of the necessary.
Having drawn first blood of the
season, the ’Walers returned to their
home territory to tackle Westralia in
Sydney. After an all-round exhibi-
tion of not particularly inspiring
cricket, N.S.W. scored 213 in the
first innings and Westralia had lost
four for 116 at stumps on Saturday.
* * * *
French boxing authorities recently
adopted a rule prohibiting pugs from
fighting for at least a month after
having been knocked out. If ever
there was a strong argument for
adopting the same rule, or a more
stringent version, here, it was the
brief presence of Rex Murphy (11.3)
in the ring with Ernie Jarvis (10.13)
at Leichhardt last week. Knocked
dizzy in the second round, Murphy
was stopped for the fourth time in
a row. The stadium doctor advised
Murph. to give the game away, but
he had given the same advice after
Murphy had been bowled by Jarvis
only a few weeks back. It should
not be a question of “advice.”


*
EMH
FONDE
EN 1724
REMY MARTIN
V.S.O.P. COGNAC BRANDY
Of rare age and vintage quality seldom
before, if ever, imported into Aus-
tralia. Obtainable at most retailers.
iisw
\
• Behind every bale of yonr
wool lie years of courageous
planning and effort.
A.M.L.&F. realise this. That’s
why they give your hard-
earned wool the same
personal care and supervision
as you would yourself, and
that’s why you can be sure of
the best possible price when
you send your clip to
A.M.L.&F.
a' a ß‘MH’W
»■ m w
86 Years in the Service of the Mon on the Land
INC. IN ENGLAND, 1863. *23.42
AUSTRALIAN. MERCANTILE, LAND & FINANCE COY. LTD.
4 HUGH STREET. SYDNEY
AND AT MELBOURNE AND BRISBANE.
Country Branches — N.S.W.: Newcastle, Wagga, Henty, Hay, Oowra, Scone,
Moree, Garah, Wee Waa, Brewarrina. Q’ld: Townsville, Charleville, St.
George, Cunnamulla, Dirranbandi. Assoc, Agents: McPhie £ Co. Pty.,
Ltd., Toowoomba, Oakey, Dalby and Pittsworth. V'jc.i Wsdonga.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS' AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
• Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents In all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
* Phenovis ” Worm Remedy
5;«
df
‘PHENOVIS’
PHENOTHIAZINE DRENCH
FROM STORES, MERCHANTS AND PASTORAL HOUSES
THE WAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Breeding Good Stock.
“Agric”: Whether breeders
agree or disagree with the views
expressed by Dr. Hagedoorn,
his visit to Australia has pro-
voked a discussion in breeding
circles which is all to the good.
K. B. Jones, Cefu, Pilton (Q.),
who entertained Dr. Hagedoorn
at his home, states that the
geneticist was agreeably sur-
prised to find that, in pigs at
least, prizes were being awarded
to desirable commercial types,
which were the standard for the
show type.
Dr, Hagedoorn was not in-
terested in outstanding indi-
viduals, byt placed a high value
on a uniform high standard. The
Danes achieved this with pigs
by the methods he advocated,
i.e., in breeding and progeny-
testing. Danish bacon com-
manded top price because it was
reliable. One, vital factor stated
clearly by Dr. Hagedoorn was
that not every family would
stand up to inbreeding, a fact
known for many years, and the
reason for the prejudice against
inbreeding. Few families are
sufficiently pure genetically to be
inbred without a large percent-
age of culls, but the good indi-
viduals of these matings were
very valuable breeding animals.
While not agreeing with any-
one who said that shows were
of no value to breeders, Jones
says he does consider them bad
when judges give prizes for such
things as a color-marking rather
than for the animal as a whole.
The Berkshire breed has pro-
gressed wonderfully since it had
become possible for a pig with
a black face or tail to win a
prize.
The greatest headache for any
breeder is to find and purchase
his next successful sire, and if
Dr. Hagedoorn or any other
geneticist could evolve a golden
rule for this problem he would
earn the heartfelt thanks of
stockbreeders everywhere.
Result of Dr. Hagedoorn’s
visit to date appears to be a
confusion of ideas and ideals,
but the views of such a thought-
provoking gentleman are bound
fo have a beneficial effect on the
breeding industry when breeders
have had time to test his
theories.
Liverseed Grass.
“Bill C.”: It is making steady
headway in the cooler parts of
Queensland, especially the Darl-
ing Downs. Only disadvantage
is that it is an annual and must
be resown every spring unless
it is left ungrazed to mature its
seed about the end of summer.
If the seed can find lodgment
it is not necessary to work the
land beforehand. This wiry
grass is hardier than most on
stony, shallow country, but, as
with all other forage grasses, its
food value depends on the soil
it is rooted in—the better the
soil the richer the grass. It
responds well to light falls of
rain, and, for a dwarf grass, is
a thick grower and effective in
smothering weeds.
N.S.W. Wheats.
“Longjon”: Though Bencub-
bin still dominates the N.S.W.
acreage percentages, it is not as
popular as it was. In 1946-47
Bencubbin occupied 45.68 per
cent, of the 4,772,978 acres
sown to wheat; last season this
fell to 34.79 of 4,242,969 acres.
Popular varieties in 1946-47
after Bencubbin were Ford 10.8
p.c., Dundee 4.68 and Eureka
4.10 p.c. A feature of the past
two years has been the rapid
rise in growers’ estimation of
Gabo. In 1946-47 only 1.07 of
the acreage was Gabo ; last year
it had jumped to 13 p.c. What
will happen next season, as it
has taken rust this year, remains
to be seen.
Following Bencubbin and
Gabo last year Ford came third
with a percentage of 7.12,
Charter 5.29, Bordan 3.88 and
Yalta 3.86.
Modern Marking.
“R. A. A. Sargent”: Over
the years inventive minds have
been endeavoring to find a safe
and sure method of castration
and tailing that will leave no
open wound.
For a while attention was
centred on instruments that
would crush the cords without
opening the scrotum, and some
success was obtained. However,
in some cases the operation did
not take, and when the particu-
lar animal was located recourse
had to be made to the knife,
adding to the normal risks that
of the severe shock to a mature
animal.
There is now a device called
the Elastrator, designed to ex-
pand a strong rubber ring so
that the scrotum and testes can
be pushed through the ring,
which then contracts. The effect
is to stop the circulation of blood
so that the part atrophies and
drops off, leaving no open
“Well, Well — if it ain't little George Washington !”
wound. The operation is ap-
parently painless.
If, however, the method is ex-
tended to tailing (for which it is
also successful) some pain is ap-
parent, the lamb trying to buck
the ring off or walking in
circles, finally lying down be-
fore attempting to seek its
mother. On the other hand,
lambs treated by this method
recover more quickly than those
operated on with a knife at the
same time; in fact, my own ex-
perience tends to prove that
mothering time and difficulties
are approximately halved.
Although the method leaves
no open wound, normal precau-
tions should not be relaxed, as
it must be realised that the ani-
mal is carrying what amounts to
dead tissue until the dropping-off
occurs —it is therefore inadvis-
able to use the rings on lambs
if they are dirty without taking
antiseptic precautions.
With calves the operation is
exactly similar, and has similar
success, but here even more so
than with lambs it is advisable
to mark as early as possible.
W.A. Ricegrowing.
“He-Ne”: Although W.
Poggendorff, chief of the
N.S.W. Plant Division (Depart-
ment of Agriculture), who has
been looking over the Kimber-
leys and Northern Territory, be-
lieves that good rice crops could
be grown extensively in those
parts subject to regular floods,
he warns that careful pre-
liminary observations would
have to be made on the actual
. incidence and depth of the
flood-waters. The type and de-
gree of control of both water
and natural vegetation would
also have to be examined. A
special rice variety or varieties
would have to be planted and
nitrogen would have to be in-
troduced into the soil either by
legumes or fertilisers.
If the possibilities of a bounti-
ful rice area are realised it
should be of sufficient size to
make tests with a view to using
large-scale techniques such as
aeroplane-sowing and spraying
for weed-control.
As a first move pilot plots in
select localities are to be planted
to find which varieties and
what cultivation methods are
most suitable.
“Clunesman”: Poggendorff is
probably one of the most dis-
tinguished men in his field that
Australia has. Although full de-
tails are not to be published for
a while, he has been reported as
saying that he is impressed with
the country along the rivers.
Much of his time was, of course,
taken up with an inspection of
the Ord River area.
Poggendorf has an intimate
knowledge of the N.S.W. Mur-
rumbidgee Irrigation Area and
should be able to furnish a
sound report, particularly where
rice is concerned.
Perhaps the most important
feature —so far made known —
of direct interest to cattlemen is
his recommendation of a
“lucerne” (not the true lucerne)
which cattle do not eat until it
has matured. The advantages
of such a plant in an area
where the nutritive level of
natural pasture suffers a severe
decline during the season can
well be imagined.
Placing Them Well.
“Pat O’Day”: A Riverina
sheepman sends sheep to Flem-
ington (Sydney) twice a year—
woolly lambs in September and
off-shears heavy wethers and
ewes later. But he watches local
sales and consults his Sydney
agent frequently. Recently the
agent told him:
“Prices not being all they
could be [the market being
stationary at the time], hold off
sending- prime young crossbred
ewes for a few weeks till things
rehabilitate themselves. Better
fo give them, or any other sheep
for Flemington, at least five or
six weeks off-shears, the reason
being that not only are bruises
still apparent on the sheep but
handling too soon would cause
further bruising, and Flemington
buyers won’t buy bruised sheep.
Flemington, at the moment,
couldn’t assure any better price
for young, prime Border Lei-
cester ewes than the country
saleyards.” So the owner sent
this particular class as a breed-
ing line to Wagga and Coota-
mundra and found good buyers
there.
He’ll allow his October-shorn
aged wethers another month or
so to improve for Flemington
sale in December. These
wethers, although prime fat im-
mediately off-shears, will look
50 p.c. better, when the mark
of the shears has worn off. Cost-
ing £2 per head in a country
saleyard off-shears last Novem-
ber, this year they cut their new
owner six bales of good
medium fine 65’s wool and will
doubtless realise their original
price, being four-year-olds in
December.
Flowers in Desert Places.
“Eremophila”: The barest
backyard can be made attractive
with cactus plants. A couple of
well-placed beds will not only
relieve the bareness but in the
flowering period will bring real
beauty to the place. Some of
the varieties grow magnificent
blossoms several inches across
and with up to a score of
blooms.
Cactus thrives on soapy
water, producing glossy-green
or attractive spiky leaves that
are a source of joy in a dusty
place. Where the only water-
supply is waste household water
from baths and washing day,
sink the beds beneath ground-
level and build up pockets of
soil held by local rock. To-
wards the back of the bed, if
it is against a fence, build it up
to give a tiered effect, making
sure that the water will be able
to flow down into the sunken
bed at the foot. Cactus, like
other plants, appreciates manure,
and regular applications of
weak liquid manure assures
glorious growth and fine flowers.
Wild Pigs.
“Bill E”: While “F.R.” (B.
5/10/’49) is mainly right about
wild pigs in Queensland, there
are pigs and pigs. Without fresh


*iu
te iltaii
II FINE HOFEI
A hotel, certainly one of Sydney >
leading Hotels, tut different to
every otter in many ttings. The
Wentworth, for instance, has ever
Been noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too,
while away from the noise and
Bustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WENTWORTH
c~>
ne
in
TKone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
Nu-METAL
SAVES
ENGINE
REBORE
NEW
RINGS
Just pour RE-NT? liquid NU-METAL
through plug boles. NU-METAL will re-
condition your motor while you drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles, and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL has been proved and
tested by over 100,000 users since 1934,
many owners having used NU-METAL
three and four times in the same engine.
NU-METAL comes to you in a separ-
ate tube for each cylinder, thus eliminat-
ing guess work. Municipal Councils,
Engineers, etc., use NU-METAL. Treatment
costs for 1. 4,6, 8 cylinders, 10/6, 30/-,
37/6, 45/-. Call, write, or phone MA7250.
Mail Orders post free, C.O.D.’s plus
Postal Charges.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return NC
METAL to treat a Cylinder Engine
I enclose Cheque—P.N.
Or please send me Illustrated Foldci
describing action of NU-METAL.
Name
Address..
B. 9/11/’4&
BRISTOL TRADING COMPANY
Ist Floor. Bristol House.
M 7 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. MA 725 V
Pp*l
SH*i^
. At fill times, end
especially In the bath, Cutlcura
Soap makes the skin delightfully
smooth and charming. Cutlcura
Soap has antiseptic proper* -
ties which remove all trace
of roughness and soreness.
One of thofamons trio—^
Cuticura Soap, Oint-
ment, Talcum
.m
ƒ
SMOKERS
PIPE TOBACCOS THAT ARE
BLENDED TO GIVE
SATISFACTION TO ALL.
HOUSE OF MURPHY. A blend of
the highest grade of leaf to give a
cool smoke of satisfaction that men
prefer. 22/- per lb. Posted.
A.A.A. HILLTOP. A blend of
Anstralian, American and African.
20/- per lb. Posted.
WINSTON READY RUBBED
CIGARETTE TOBACCO. Greatly
improved by better blending of
mature leaf. 24/- per lb. Posted
Special Quota to Retailers for lots 20lb,
weight or over.
Write to: Cash Order Dept.,
Hillman Trading Co.,
Commercial Road, Brisbane.
Postage paid on Cash with order.
Postage extra on C.O.D. Orders.
Cigarette Lighter Service
We stock spare parts for every well-
known make of Cigarette Lighter
Send your defective lighter to us’
Repairs returned post free to any
address in the Commonwealth
ROLLS RAZOR
CO. OF AUST. PTY., LTD.,
8a Castlereagh St., Sydney. BW 3038
gdf
Write for
particulars
"SIRIUS"
MINOR
DUMPY
LEVEL
For contour levelling,
irrigation and drainage,
etc. High-quality in-
struments for immediate
delivery. Complete with
case and tripod,
£2B/3/4.
Horizontal Circle (in
Degrees), £2/14/4 extra.
Also Abney Levels, Pris-
matic Compasses, Op-
tical Square, General
Survey and Drafting
Requirements,
Pi
b
AND SONS
PTY. LTD.
42 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY. 8W8631
RABBIT
FUMIGANT
No
unpleasant
fumes.
fUK
No
plant
required.
CYANIDE CRYSTALS
NAME
2 lb. tins at 9/- each (100 holes) Case 12 x 2 lb. 103/-
8 lb. tins at 32/- each (100 holes) Case 12 x 8 lb. 370/-
(Post Free) (F.O.R. Sydney)
No C.O.D. Please add Exchange to Cheques.
(PRINT) F.S.
ADDRESS
FLAK INDUSTRIES, 23 Addison Rd., Marrickville, N.S.W.
'sm
J'-iMr))
Allis-Cha!mers' HD-19, with finger-
tip hydraulic steering and Torque
Converter, balancing speed with
load, has a drawbar pull of more
than 36,000 lbs. Faster, simpler
servicing, too.
ay
©:
Allis-Chalmers' AD Grader. A
2-cycle diesel engine for road
surfaces, ditches, clearing
camp sites, yards, etc.
Features full circle re-
volving blade. Weight:
21,500 lbs.
Smallest in the A.C trawler range
BEST
FOR ITS
SIZE
IN THE WORLD!
The new ALLIS-CHALMERS’ HD-5 is not just a
Drawbar or Bulldozer Tractor, it’s a tractor
engineered to work with equal efficiency pulling,
pushing or lifting. With more weight—approxi-
mately 11,000 lbs.—it is properly distributed for
better balance. The HD-5 has large front idlers
and sprockets, giving greater ground contact . . .
this means less bobbing, smoother, more accurate
operation on bulldozing, ploughing and shovel
work. The ALLIS-CHALMERS’ HD-5 is the most
versatile crawler tractor of its weight available.
37.5 Drawbar Hl *.
sa(S-t»«' w '’ 5
4 *-S WW
wr
Me
v
* /
1
5#
■:::>r :
/
AC
>1 noma well
known throughout the world . . .
ALUS - CHALMERS
1V93.9
blood and with the usual in-
breeding they soon run out,
when heads and snouts become
half as long as their bodies.
They do untold damage, dig-
ging up weed and plant roots.
They will follow them right
under netting fences, rooting the
netting up, and, if disturbed, may
charge into the fence, carrying
away panels.
In North Queensland, along
the coast about Cooktown, the
wild pig is a formidable beast.
If cornered practically any wild
pig, even a sucker, will turn and
charge man or horse.
On a smart horse shooting
wild pig with a revolver is good
sport, but the horse needs to be
smart and the rider up to the
game.
Grass Tetany.
“Rooster”; Just as milk-fever
is associated with the lowering
of the calcium content of the
blood serum, so, in many cases
of grass tetany, there is a de-
crease in the magnesium con-
tent of the blood. Recent tests
show that magnesium sulphate
is largely successful for grass
tetany.
Some cows, although partially
responsive under this treat-
ment, fail to rise. In such cases
it is advisable to give phos-
phates, also found lacking in the
bloodstream. Initial oral dose
is 3oz. of acid sodium phos-
phate in i pint of water, fol-
lowed by ioz. of same in solu-
tion thrice daily. As a precau-
tionary measure give one table-
spoon of boneflour twice daily
in a small feed for at least six
weeks before calving.
Herd-testing.
“Mr.”: In Victoria there are
still too many farmers with un-
tested herds carrying low-pro-
ducing “passengers” which drag
down both the herd and State
butterfat averages. The extent to
which this is being done in Vic-
toria can be gathered from last
year’s average of 1941 b. of but-
terfat for all cows, tested and
untested. Contrast this with the
grade-test figure (cows of mixed
breeds) of 2521 b. and the
standard test (pure-breeds) of
3431 b;
A cow producing large quan-
tities of milk but with a low fat
content is almost as unprofitable
to her owner as the obviously
low-yielder, and the only way
she can be found out is by test.
The most profitable cow is
the one that tests and yields well
and produces a living calf every
12 months.
Hints for the Farm.
“Quorn”: Where it is pos-
sible that rabbits may enter a
garden, lift the bulbs that have
died down rather than leave
them in the beds for next season.
In a drought year I lost all my
daffodils, jonquils, hyacinths and
lachenalias to rabbits which
managed to force their way in.
The blue iris and the belladonna
lilies were not touched.
“Ware”: It is a sound idea
to stake all low-foliaged plants
in areas where snakes are numer-
ous. The damp soil of a garden
is particularly pleasing to snakes,
and there is some danger of
getting bitten when the hands
must be put into dense foliage
to gather fruit, etc.
“Cloudy”: Summer lettuce is
hard to grow because it quickly
runs to seed. Great Lakes is one
of the best heat-resisting varie-
ties. Sow the seeds thinly in
rich, friable soil, in a sunny
position. As soon as they are
large enough to handle, thin out
to about lOin. apart. Don’t
transplant because it gives the
plants a check, and they might
not heart. Water frequently but
avoid spraying from overhead.
A dose or two of liquid manure
will keep them moving and help
to have them ready in six to
eight weeks. Plant seeds every
fortnight in small batches.
“Beau Forte”: Use thin oil,
not kerosene, when flushing out
a car, truck or any other internal-
combustion engine. Kerosene is
a poor lubricant, and if drawn
into the oil-lines could cause
damage. When draining the
sump, warm the engine and let
it drain completely. The last
pint is the dirtiest,
“Milo”: Citrus-trees take
years to come into full bearing,
but last well when once estab-
lished. If is a good plan to plant
one here and there between stone-
fruit-trees that are becoming un-
profitable. When the citrus-trees
mature the stone-fruits can be
removed and lucerne or clover
substituted. Pumpkins, melons,
marrows and corn also do well
in these positions, as manures
can be readily applied and the
friable soil will act as a mulch.
“M oi r a”; Returning of
stubble to the soil breeds bac-
teria which feed on the
nitrogen content, thus defeating
the purpose intended. However,
benefit must result if the bacteria
can be outwitted. The answer
is the addition of sulphate of
ammonia in the proportion of
251 b. to a ton of straw. Bean
and pea trash will not need the
nitrogen as they contain a good
percentage of it already.
“Sundowner”: Although peas
are uneconomic to feed to pigs,
pea-straw is a useful foodstuff.
Chaffed and soaked with
molasses and water it will make
up the bulk of a grown pig’s
ration.
“Billjim”: Don’t rush dipping.
Let sheep out of yards undipped
if drizzling rain threatens. Be-
fore drenching always try the
drench on a few sheep first.
Sheep and cattle can bloat on
fresh clover, so don’t turn
crutched ewes back to pasture
the same evening after being
yarded the previous night; wait
until morning and keep an eye
on them.
“Carlyle”: Selected by Vic,
Rivers and Water Supply Com-
mission from more than 350
designs, a sand-moving machine
invented by L. W. Dart, of Port-
land, makes easy large-scale re-
moval of sand from Mallee water-
channels. The machine consists
of a scoop which lifts sand on to
two conveyor-belts. These trans-
fer it to another, which dumps
it on the bank. An 18-h.p. kero,
engine provides power for the
conveyor, and the machine,
which is drawn along the channel
by a tractor, has a scooping
capacity of 400 c.y. per hour.


Perfectly
/<V
a*
¥/L>
m
m
<■s*
mm
Wk
c
\A
&
m.
A
I
'<sb >
1
;>•
7
SELF-SUPP° RT ' NG
THE BRAND WITH A. PEDIGREE
Shctto lietueM
mo ELASTIC TO PUCKER OR PERISH
Missing Friend.
TO ARTHUR JACK ALBON formerly of
The Rocket Range Woomera in the State
of South Australia but now of parts un-
known.—TAKE NOTICE that your wife
MARY GRAHAM ALBON has instituted
proceedings for a divorce on the ground of
desertion UNLESS you enter an appear-
ance in the Office of the Prothonotary of
the Supreme Court of Victoria at Mel-
bourne on or before the Ninth day of
January One thousand nine hundred and
fifty the case may proceed in your absence
IF you intend to defend the suit you must
also file an answer in the said office on
or before the Nineteenth day of January
One thousand nine hundred and fifty AND
FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that the sealed
copy petition and copy citation in this
suit can be inspected at the office of the
Petitioner’s Solicitor, NORMAN LANDAU,
415 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies ... .. • • 2/-
Yearly Subscription.. .. 22/6
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper
00. Pty., Ltd., Sydney.
For Accuracy
and Distinction
lAVMA
Watches =
_ 17
Jewelled
Swiss Masterpieces
with NON-MAGNETIC
ESCAPEMENT
lAVMA
WATCHES
Founded in 1852
L VILLERET, SUISSE .
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
B
A
BB
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
Ci/ARD
a
JlfiOt'CV’
PROTECTA
€tntl-StU RigL
ml
suitable for ever, t,pe cl
.11 Smlee. Credit,. P.,out. «l«
pleasing In U
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty.Lti
jaciv»u dney brisbane
Distributing Agent*—
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE .
ADELAIDE .
FEBXB •
W. C Penfold * Co, Pty. ltd.
B Norman Bros. P»y, tti.
# Vardon A Sow U<*
* Docket Book Co. tMU
I saw men coming—mere dots,
coming down the road. And as
we watched them they grew. A
platoon of soldiers —Red Army
soldiers —marching anyhow, at
ease, straggling. Short, squat
men in shabby uniform, heavily
padded. One had .a fowl dang-
ling from hi§ fist, another
carried, absurdly, a frying-pan.
But their bright eyes were every-
where and some of them carried
their weapons at the ready. As
they came closer I could hear
their conversation discussing
the prospects of 100t —and two
of them were teasing a bow-
legged fellow called Sashka.
Then the officer in front told
them to shut up. He was tall
and young, that officer, a cut
above the brutes he commanded.
Walking in front in high, soft
German officers’-boots and with
wide, glittering epaulettes, a re-
volver-holster on his belt.
“And Peter went out to meet
them. I cried to him to stop,
but he went on. They stopped
when they saw him and spread
out. Levelled their rifles at him,
but he went on through the mud.
And the Russian officer came to
meet him. Then the others fol-
lowed him, cautiously, until
there was only a few paces be-
tween them. Three paces be-
tween the officer and his men,
and about five yards between
the officer and Peter, who kept
walking steadily. And a bitter
wind sprang up from the east, so
that I shivered in my potato-
shed, watching it all but not
daring to raise my head too
high.
“ ‘Stop! ’ shouted the officer —
a lieutenant, now, I could see
by his epaulettes. But perhaps
the high wind distorted the
sound. Anyway, Peter kept
walking. Trudging in the mud,
but joyously, as though he were
going home. And the lieutenant
pulled his revolver out and
shouted again. And this time
Peter understood him. He
stopped dead and a look of
fumbling astonishment came
over his face. I could see him
trying to remember what to say.
He was never very clever, our
Peter, you know. And at last he
got it 'out. ‘Ya’ . . .he stam-
mered ; and must have thought
this wrong: ‘Eto’ .. . But there
was the harsh crack of the
officer’s revolver, and before
Peter could say that he was a
friend he was shot. Through
the head. Dead.” Anton ges-
tured with his fat white hand.
“Popped off, as it were.”
| STARED at him. There was
' a brutality, a kind of gentle-
manly boorishness about the re-
mark that appalled me. Olga
put her face in her hands and
quietly sobbed. A distressing
and pathetic sound,
“There, there, old girl. Don’t
go on so.” It was Bill, with his
arm round her shoulders, trying
to comfort her. And presently
she stopped, dried her eyes and
smiled wanly. And began trac-
ing designs in the wet tabletop
with a long white forefinger.
“Incredible, isn’t it?” Anton
said. “And quite appropriate.”
Olga’s trembling lip, the blue
pulse throbbing in her firm,
white neck meant nothing to
him. A sort of egotistical and
theatrical excitement raised him
above human feeling for the
moment.
Appropriate. I could see Peter
walking down the road to meet
the Russians. He strode through
the room. Dark head high and
eyes aglow, with a firm mili-
tary step. There was poetry in
his action ; and poetry had gone
down on its knees, buckled and
staggered and fell on its face in
the sour wet German soil. The
echoes of that shot rang bitterly
in my brain.
“Funny thing,” Bill Flannigan
said, drawling, leaning back in
his chair and crossing his well-
creased trouser legs and smooth-
ing his curly hair, “Funny
thing that Peter had to do it.
You spoke Russian. And you
didn’t save him. That’s a funny
thing, Anton.”
/'"'NLGA looked up, her grey
eyes flaring with sudden
hate. “You killed him!” she
said. “You did, you did, you
did!”
“Sh! Steady, old girl!” Bill
patted her soothingly. And I
was conscious of faces turned
towards our table.
“Why did you do it, Anton?”
I said. In my mind a cold sus-
picion was crawling, like a
snake. Anton had talked of
family feuds; it seemed incred-
ible, fantastic. But the whole
thing was fantastic.
Anton groaned. A long and
low and disturbing sound that
startled us all. And I think he
was perfectly unconscious of it.
Then he said, in his normal
voice; “Aren’t you all being a
little melodramatic?” And I
felt that we were.
“Then perhaps you’ll explain,”
Olga said with venomous polite-
ness. “Just what happened?”
“What happened? Peter was
a fool. And he was shot. What
happened to me? That is
simple. I escaped. You see, I
was not a fool. Not quite such
a fool as Peter, anyway. And,
besides, I had work to do. Are
you forgetting that?” His hazel
eyes swept us arrogantly.
“You killed him,” Olga re-
peated stonily. An extraordinary
change came over Anton. He
seemed to crumple.
“Yes, I killed him. Nega-
tively. By not speaking. But I
killed him, all right. Although
I could say, and truthfully, that
I had a duty to perform, and it
was no part of that duty to save
Peter. For what was Peter, after
all? A misfit. He tried to cram
two worlds into his head and,
not unnaturally, his head split.
He would not have been happy
if he had lived; and you”—he
looked penetratingly at Olga and
she shivered —“you would not
have been happy with him.
“But I didn’t kill him, as you
think, in your romantic way,
through hatred. Because I was
sick of him pestering me. Or
because of the ancient quarrel.
It was because I was afraid.
Yes, afraid! They had my
dossier, remember, those Red
fellows. They would have
handed me back to base, if
they hadn’t killed me. A British
soldier who could speak Russian
so well. It was, anyway, my
duty to do nothing. There was
nothing else a sensible man
could do. I have thought and
thought about it, but there was
nothing else, nothing....”
His voice trailed into a miser-
able silence. And. Olga kept
staring at him and tracing de-
signs on the wet glass of the
table.
PRESENTLY we stirred,
Bill and I. It was time to
g°. ...
“Come on, Olga,” Bill said;
but she didn’t hear him. She
turned her stony white face to
Anton and said “Tell me,” and
Anton started to tell her again,
probing all the old melancholy
hurts. They had forgotten us.
“Come on,” I said to Bill and
the two of us left, without a
word of farewell, crossing the
lounge with its dim pictures and
thick carpets and emptying
tables. And as I went I was
bemused by the vision of Peter,
with hope and doubt in his eyes,
sinking to his knees under the
low slate-grey sky . . .
AT the lift we paused and
looked back.' Olga’s back
was turned to us and her brown
head was bowed; Anton was
still talking, waving his flat
hands: wooden gestures of gro-
tesque and compelling dignity.
“It doesn’t do to be up-
rooted,” Bill said.
I stared at him wonderingly;
at the long Flannigan lip,
clenched firm, and the blue eye
of old Simon Flannigan clouded
in thought; perhaps the seeds
of healthy strength, of future
dynasties—of greatness, even —
lay there, in some dim and mys-
terious and long-distance way.
My mind wandered along un-
familiar roads • • • But then I
had not been prepared for pro-
fundity.
What I had really resented
about Bill, I realised in a pain-
ful flash of self-knowledge, was
his unmarked youth.
Five seconds later, with a feel-
ing of infinite relief, I stepped
into the electric light and dark-
ness of the street and the cool
night air.


Missing Beneficiary.
. missing next-op-kin sought.
THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE FOR VICTORIA
is the administrator of the estate of
ELLEN JOHANNA SMITH deceased, who
died on the sth August, 1944, and whose
estate is distributable amongst her next-
of-kin. The said Ellen Johanna Smith
had a sister whose Christian name was
Grace and whose maiden name was Hen-
derson. The said Grace Henderson was
married successively to George Russell,
George Grayson Cocks and Leigh Parker,
and predeceased the said Ellen Johanna
Smith deceased. The said Grace Hender-
son may have been married also to a man
named Daley, Daly Of the mar-
riage of the said Grace Henderson with
George Russell there was bom at least
one child, namely John Russell, who was
born at Echuca in the State of Victoria on
the 4th September, 1875. The said Grace
Henderson may have had at least two
other children named George and Emily,
but it is not known of which of the mar-
riages of the said Grace Henderson such
children were born, if they were, in fact,
bom. Any child of the said Grace Hen-
derson (by any of her marriages) who sur-
vived the said Ellen Johanna Smith de-"
ceased would be entitled to share in the
estate of the said Ellen Johanna Smith
deceased. NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN
that unless on or before the 19th day of
February 1950 the Public Trustee for Vic-
toria, of 412 Collins Street, Melbourne,
receives from the said John Russell, or
from some person claiming through him,
a claim to share in the said estate he will
distribute such estate as if the said John
Russell had predeceased the said Ellen
Johanna Smith deceased. Notice is further
given that unless on or before the said
19th day of February 1950 the Public
Trustee receives a claim to share in the
said estate from some person claiming to
be another child of the said Grace Hen-
derson deceased, or to be entitled to
claim through such other child, he will
distribute such estate on the'footing that
the only lawful child of the said Grace
Henderson deceased was the said John
Russell.—C. J. GARDNER, Public Trustee
412 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria!
Better for Softool Books
They stand the rough
•nd tumble. They're lighter
end easier to carry.
Ask first for
A I
W
SCHOOL CASES
i \
Executor * Trustee - Attorney
$
rut
A BULWARK
Against Misfortune
When you appoint Bums Philp Trust
Company Limited as your executor or trustee, you
show sound judgement. The administration of your
estate will, one day, become the responsibility of ex-
perienced directors and capable officers. Your family’s
interests will be fully protected at every turn by this
permanent and solidly financed institution.
"Hands That Never Leave the Wheel " explains how
the Company can assist you. A complimentary copy of
this interesting booklet will be forwarded on request.
DIRECTORS:
James Burns
P. T. W. Black
MANAGER: L. S. Parker
Joseph Mitchell
Eric Priestley Lee
SECRETARY: E. R. Overton, F.F.I.A.
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
Constituted by Special Act of the N.S.W. Parliament
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Tel. BU 5901 Box 543, G.P.0., Sydney
BPI4-49
SMALL DISAPPOINTMENTS
will become
if you help to control
today's high prices this way.
7
Sr
CO
3#
m m
It is disappointing to forego some
long-wanted article perhaps
something that you’ve dreamed for
years of owning, and that only
now is re-appearing on the market.
Of course, the price ticket makes
you shudder, but you’re very
tempted to buy it just the same,
and hang the expense.
But be firm! If you’re one of
those wise people who know that
saving is a sure way of reducing
high prices you’ll refuse to buy if
the price is high.
Saving is a wise policy, because
when you eliminate careless spend-
ing buying only essential goods
and "shopping around” for best
available value—you relieve the
buyirig pressure that causes so
many of today’s high prices.
With reduced spending, particu-
larly on luxuries, much of the
manpower, materials and manu-
facturing equipment now used in
the production of non-essential
items will be diverted to the
making of necessities. Industry
will be given a real chance to
catch up with the public’s
requirements.
The money you are saving now
will soon build up into a really
worthwhile sum, increased by
interest payments if you invest it
wisely. Later, you’ll be glad you
started saving.
TO HELP
CONTROL PRICES
SAVE THIS WAY
1. Buy only what you really need.
Avoid luxuries. Get full value.
2. Buy for cash always.
3. Settle your debts then pay
your way.
4. Join a National Savings Group,
5. Build up your Savings Bank
Account.
6. Make Fixed Deposits with your
Bank.
7. Invest in Commonwealth Loans*
8. Increase your life assurance.
Authorised by the Treasurer ef- tite Commonwaifk,
NS7?XJ 13.109
Wants.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
To buy Vol. 2 only of The Aus-
tralian Encyclopcedia. —4723.
Father and son (19), Sydney, want
small furnished flat, North Shore. —
4724.
Words of poem “The Waters of
Lodore.”—472o,
To buy copy of The Bulletin
Reciter. —47l6.
To buy Stebbing’s Modern Intro-
duction to Logic and Belloc’s The
Path to R0me. —4721.
To buy copies, bound or unbound,
of early issues of “Aussie.”—47l9.
To buy Michael Howe: Last and
Worst of the Bushrangers (Hobart,
1818), The Hermit of Van Diemen’s
Land (Hobart, 1829), and Quintus
Servinton: A Tale (Hobart, 1830). —
4717.
To buy Mercer’s Poison Plants and
Maiden’s Useful Native Plants of
Australia. —47lB.
Words of verse beginning:
And I dream that these garden closes
With their shade and their sunflecked sod.
—4722.
Information Sought.
Origin of the proverb “Like Hunt's
dog, he will neither go to church nor
stay at home” ?
The proverb is a Shropshire say-
ing, and is applied to a self-willed
person who will neither be led nor
driven. The story is that one Hunt,
a laboring man, kept a mastiff which,
on being shut up while his master
went to church, howled and barked
so as to disturb the whole congrega-
tion. Hunt thereupon thought he
would take him to church the next
Sunday, but the dog positively re-
fused to enter.
* * * *
Why is Norway sometimes called
the "Land of the Midnight Sun” ?
In the Arctic and Antarctic there
are periods when the sun does not
descend below and others when it
does not rise above the horizon
within the 24 hours of the day. At
the poles these periods are half a
year. They decrease in regions closer
to the polar circles, beyond which
the phenomenon can no longer occur.
Northern Norway is the region of
the Arctic most frequently visited by
travellers from Western Europe.
Hence its common association with
the sun shining at midnight for a
time in midsummer.
* * * *
How to make (1) French and (2)
Ravigotte mustard?
(1) Mix ordinary mustard with
white wine, white wine vinegar or
plain vinegar, add sugar to taste,
some pepper and a boiled infusion
of herb basil, cloves and mace. If
this infusion is omitted the recipe is
not spoilt and , will be quite agree-
able to taste; experiment to suit your-
self. (2) Recipe calls for mustard,
wine vinegar, olive oil, salt, tarragon,
thyme, garlic, cloves, chives, chervil
and parsley; if these are available use
an y °£ them to your liking: they are
cooked and macerated in the vinegar
or wine, strained and mixed with the
mustard.
* * * *
Simple method of tanning skins
with alum?
Stretch the skin tightly on a *board,
the hair side downwards, and tack it
in place by the edges. Scrape off
the flesh and fat with a blunt knife
and work in some ordinary chalk
freely with plenty of hard rubbing.
When the chalk begins to powder
and fall off, remove the skin from
the board and rub in plenty of
powdered alum. Then wrap up
closely and keep in a dry place for
a few days.
* * * •
Who is recognised as world’s
heavyweight boxing champion since
Joe Louis retired?
After Louis retired, Ezzard Charles
outpointed Joe Walcott in 15 rounds
at Chicago, and Americans now
recognise Charles as heavyweight
champion of the world. English
authorities claim Bruce Woodcock
(whose scheduled contest in London
with American Lee Savold has twice
been postponed) is champion, but
Charles has beaten Gus Lesnevich
and Pat Valentino since winning
from Walcott, and appears to have
a better claim than Woodcock.
Brief Answers.
C.D.McW.; The “Yass Triblme-
Courier,’’ published twice weekly at
Yass (N.S.W.), incorporates the “Yass
Evening Tribune,” established in
1879, and the “Yass Courier,” estab-
lished in 1854....8.M.: The Soviet
national anthem is “Soyuz Nerushimy
Respublic Svobodnykl,” words by S.
Mildialkov and El-Registan; music
by A. V. Alexandrov.... C.G.S.:
The World Council of Churches was
formally constituted on August 23,
1948, at Amsterdam, by an assembly
composed of 351 delegates represent-
ing 147 churches from 44 countries.
. ...W.8.8.: King George V was
born June 3, 1865, and died January
20, 1936 F.V.: Approximate
equivalents are: one tablespoon, \
fluid oz.; one dessertspoon, $ fluid
oz.; and one teaspoon, \ fluid oz.
E.P.: The standard gauge of the
U.S.A. and Canadian railways is 4ft.
Biin J.M.O’C.: (1) No finality
has been reached as to the route to
be followed. Two alternative routes
have been suggested between Inverell
and Glen Innes and three between
Glen Innes and Dilkoon. The shortest
route proposed is 151 m. 26c., the
longest 225 m. 29c. (including 18m.
61c. of existing track). (2) So far as
the proposed Eastern Suburbs rail-
way is concerned, the information
requested is not at present available.
... .C.0’8.: Will H. Ogilvie’s address
is Kirklea, Selkirk, Scotland
D.K.S.: Write Angus and Robertson,
Ltd., 89 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
... .A.M.McA.: Write Under-Sec-
retary, Dept, of Defence, Canberra,
A.C.T J.D.8.: Obtainable from
Tyrrell’s Pty., Ltd., 281 George-street,
Sydney... .J.M.: Write J. Parsons,
hon. secretary, Parramatta D.R.L.F.
Club, 77 Grand-avenue, Westmead,
N.S.W P.D.: Write United King-
dom Trade Commissioner, Prudential
Bldg., 39 Martin-place, Sydney.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the
MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany, MS. should be
addressed to the Editor,
D.F.: Received the dimmest and
most unreadable pencil item on
record.,.. M.F.W.: “Oh, Cedric,
Cedric,” she cried. “Why do you
shun me?” “Mavis, begone,” he
coldly responded. Then she plunged
a knife into his side, and without
pausing to drag it out again, thrust
it into her own body P.McK.:
Not even Buckley’s F.C.: Touch-
ing story of self-sacrificing inebriate
of no general interest T.G B :
You’ll have to do better Bellerive:
You still pack a deadly punch:
....D.R.J.: Reads like a fantasy
founded on bad beer K.A.: Stories
should go well in a boys’ paper
W.P.M.A.: You mustn’t try to get
evens with her by means of jumpy
verse —not in this paper, anyway....
H.E.F.: One in the balance; the
other in the basket R. 0.8.: Yes,
but you can’t rouse people by re-
marking :
Sad it is and alarming;
Something is far from right.
. ...J.McP.: No talent in them.
Nothing in them but words inartistic-
ally arranged.... 8.C.: Postpone say-
ing things till you’ve something to
say and have learnt how to say it....
J.D.8.; Another weepful sentimen-
tality about “Home, sweet home.”
N.N.: Dim scrawl received.
Terribly hard on the eyes. Why put
so much water in the ink? ... .F.P.D.:
Too long and thin and commonplace.
A.W.W.: Long and uninterest-
ing collection of names and dates
C.S.F.: Three of them are old, so
presume that the reason why we can’t
remember the fourth is that it is
older H.E.H.: Very patriotic, but
not very poetic K.T.: Unmoved
by philanderings of wealthy politician
with his impecunious opponent’s girl.
. ...D.T.: “To cut a long story
short” is generally the preface to a
dreary, weary rigmarole of a deadly
dull yarn H.A.: Verses “To the
Bloke Who Writes the Answers to
Correspondents” too feeble to print
in “Answers to Correspondents”
J.A.: A most hopeless and dreary
collection W.T.H.: One stanza,
then, of “Ode to a Neon Sign”:
Oh I Wretched creature. How I hate theel
Oanst I ne’er be rid of thee?
But you smile and reflect Heaven,
So your glistening dazzles me.
Great changes transpire
And time travels fast,
But I remember the great
Pugs of the past;
Fearless hard hitters
Whose tatics did thrill
The eager fan’s at
A slashing mill.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first Is paid
4|dL per line; all others 2ld. per line.
Shearing the Golden Fleece
The outcry over the N. S. Wales
Western Lands Amendment Bill is the
justifiable protest of a wealthy section of
the community who look like being stung
—as they assuredly will if Minister for
Lands Sheahan has his way.
The bill proposes, among other things,
that a common and arbitrary compensa-
tion shall be paid to all leaseholders
affected, irrespective of the extent of
their holdings. Thus the holder of a
single lease of, say, 10,000 acres will re-
ceive the same amount of compensation
as the holder of a dozen leases involving
100,000 acres of land. The compensa-
tion is to be arbitrary, and will bear no
relationship to the value of the property
alienated. What a travesty of common
justice!
The objects of the Act—to remove
western grazing lands from the clutches
of wealthy squatters and large grazing
companies and hand them over to re-
turned servicemen—may look well on
paper and sound well from a political
platform, but they could easily prove
disastrous in practice.
During the last few years, seasons
have been very good and prices for wool
have been high—our Government might
not have had so much money to fritter
away otherwise —and as a result the very
large wool-growing concerns have made
a lot of money and attracted the
attention of the Socialists. What may
not be so well known is that usually only
one year in seven is a really profitable
year. One such year is sufficient to
make a whole business pay dividends,
but it is only very large organisations
with huge capital reserves that can afford
the luxury of toiling for six lean years
in order to feast during the seventh.
Small landholders would not be in the
race to survive the rough going of the
intervening period, because it is the very
vastness of the holding which makes it
possible for managers to shift stock
about to take advantage of whatever
feed may be available. The cutting of
hundreds of thousands of acres into inde-
pendent holdings of thousands will in-
crease the number of sheep to the acre
without doing anything to increase the
carrying-capacity of the land—the all-
important factor which should be the
guide to planners.
Many disillusioned small-time wool-
growers—back in the cities again within
a few years, cursing the outback, the
Government and, of course, the banks—
will be only part of the price of the
scheme now being hatched. The worst part
—which can lay disaster for the nation —
is that valuable flocks, now providing so
much of the wealth which enables this
nation to play with secondary industries
like a kid with toys, will be dispersed
and destroyed. Studs will disappear,
and with them the wealth of the western
lands, all because the N. S. Wales Gov-
ernment does not like the people who are
at present extracting that wealth from
the soil. — Jindivick (N.S.W.).
Building Costs
“Jindivick’s” statement (B. 17/8/’49),
that builders do not employ tradesmen
but subcontractors and charge 10 per
cent, on such work, is more or less correct,
but the deductions he draws from that are
all eyewash. Actually, it is cheaper to
sublet than to employ different tradesmen
on day wages. For instance, to employ
bricklayers on day work necessitates a
continuous supply of bricks. You can’t
get ’em, so either the men would make
the bricks spin out until more arrived, or
the builder would lay them off with, say,
2000 bricks to lay to complete the job.
When bricks eventually arrived he would
have trouble finding more men, who, in
turn, would demand good money ana
make the job last as long as they liked.
By subletting, a builder gets a fixed
price—say, £8 per 1000—and by holding
money in hand he keeps the subcontractor
up to his agreement. Under day labor it
could cost up to £l6 per 1000.
Subletting pays, and has been building
practice for more than 40 years.
Another aspect: subcontractors have
two prices—one for builders and another
for those who think they can beat the
builders and employ them direct. It
should be patent, to anyone that if I build
30 houses a year, it pays these sub-
contractors to quote cheaper to me than
to a person who builds one house in a
lifetime. Those people, who try to by-
pass the builder are just what the sub-
contractors are looking for —knowing
little of the real value of certain work,
they are wide open for exploitation.
The builder, knowing values, acts as a
buffer and protects the owner from ex-
ploitation. He also finds the money or
finances the job, buys the material and
supplies plant. Allowing him, say, 10 per
cent, in most instances is cheaper than
trying to eliminate him.
As regards costs in general, it should
be remembered, that it is a seller’s market.
With an ample supply of materials and
experienced workmen the labor cost of
building could drop 25 per cent, provided
the basic wage remains static, the
percentage system would disappear, firm
contracts could be signed and the effi-
ciency of the trade would improve. That
there are many abuses in these abnormal
times I don’t deny, but with a lifetime’s
experience I know that the building trade
is highly efficient and the remuneration
very low in normal times. Builders gener-
ally ran second in the Bankruptcy Court,
not through inefficiency but because of
the fierceness of competition.— Chips
(N.S.W.).
I asked a firm to quote for roofing a
verandah and accepted an estimate of
£ll 10s. —after being deeply touched by
the story of rising costs and small margin
of profit. The job was done by one man
in three hours, and I learned later from a
retailer that the material was worth about
£2 6s.
Needing a job of plumbing done, I
bought all the materials except a bit of
solder and engaged a plumber. The work
was done in three-and-a-half hours and
the charge was £3.
A friend of mine had painters on the
premises doing work for which a price
had been specified. Noticing that the
paint on the sashes of two windows had
faded, he asked that they should be given
a new coat. The added cost was £3, Not
satisfied with the color, he did the job
himself a few months later. It took him
three-quarters of an hour and he used 25.-
worth of paint.— Mug (Vic.).
Better Bread
If Research Institutes could guarantee
the housewife a better loaf of bread she
should have the best in the world.
At a cost of £25,000 the N. S. Wales
Bread Research Institute recently com-
pleted new North Sydney laboratories,
and flour-testing there is now under way.
Not to let private enterprise get all
the kudos, the McGirr Government is
“I think it's an excess of vitamin B .”
pushing ahead with its £52,000 Wheat
Research Station at Wagga. Exactly what
these organisations will achieve is not told,
but it is reasonable to believe their aim is
to improve the flour, the dough and the
finished product.
But while people are falling over one
another to inaugurate research-stations
they lose sight of the obvious fact that all
too often it is the baker himself who is at
fault. Although a plumber has to have
a licence of competency and an architect,
dentist or doctor a degree, anyone at all
is allowed to bake bread. While a good
baker can bake a passable loaf with poor
flour a bad baker usually cannot bake a
good loaf with the best flour.
And to make the whole matter as bad
as possible the Government came forward
with its brilliant contribution of zoning,
which puts a fixed premium on the bad
baker and stifles the competition that
would, if left alone, gradually put him
out of business. — He-Ne (N.S.W.).
Socialisation
Having been knocked by the - High
Court and Privy Council, Chifley seems
to have decided that, if he can’t choke
the cat to death with butter, there are
plenty of other ways.
Take shipping. The legislation which
established the Commonwealth Shipping
Board and placed a limit on the “life” of
vessels in use on the Australian coast
opens the way for complete Government
ownership of Australian shipping as soon
as the life of the current tonnage expires.
Broadcasting is in the same boat. By,
granting a monopoly to the A.B.C. in
television and F.M. techniques and opera-
tion, the Government has ensured that
the commercial broadcasting organisa-
tions must eventually pass into oblivion.
With aviation a lively fight is being
waged by private-enterprise pioneers
against pampered national airlines which
use public money to make the going tough
for their competitors. By restricting the
allowance of dollars to the privately-
owned shows, the Government can
prevent them from renewing their equip-
ment, so that they, unless able to secure
suitable aircraft from sterling sources,
may one day be forced to cease opera-
tions.
The Government has hinted that in-
surance and sugar-refining are holding
box-seats for the socialisation show —all
that remains is the most suitable oppor-
tunity. By restrictive legislation this
opportunity will no doubt be made.
One of our greatest dangers lies in the
fact that a new generation has arisen to
take its place in the community since
1941, when, under the Socialist Govern-
ment, regimentation began in earnest.
This young generation has not known
freedom, and its reluctance to exchange
the devil it knows for one it doesn’t is a
common psychological condition.
V. Collins (34 Pyramid-avenue, Padstow,
N.S.W.),
Impossible?
“Barwon” (B. 3/ 8 / ’49) says that it is
impossible to run cattle in the N.T. except
on large holdings.
In the Riverina, 60 years ago, we were
told that wheat was impossible. Colonel
Alfred Bennett’s grandfather and mine,
Hugh Beattie, were the first to say they
didn’t believe it. They planted wheat in
two different places, so that they grew the
the first crops at Wagga Wagga. When
sheep were mooted, it was said it was
impossible for sheep to grow wool in that
hot climate. It would either thin or (if
dense) drop off. :
In Victoria it was once impossible to
farm the Wimmera desert, whence the
best Victorian wheat comes today.
It was once impossible for anything but
large areas to run Victorian sheep and
cattle. I remember when in the ’eighties
drought came, half the sheep in Victoria
died. Drought comes now to Victoria
with its decentralised small holdings, and
there are no screams to the Government
for help because of dead sheep and cattle,
and the Victorian wool crop is as good as
ever.
At Alice Springs if was once said to be
impossible to build homes, grow fruit or
vegetables, or provide butter and eggs.
There is now talk of making Alice Springs
a tourists’ resort.
In the N.T. we are told closer-settlement
is impossible, areas must be such that
only millionaires (company or other) can
run them. Would Russia or Japan say
that if they had the N.T.? Or the
Spanish, French and Portuguese, who
colonised more than half the tropical
world. They wouldn’t be such fools.
Mary Gilmore (N.S.W.).
Power
In N. S. Wales—over most of Aus-
tralia in fact—our existing power-
stations are so big and overloaded that
not one of them can be withdrawn with-
out disrupting the entire system. Bun-
nerong, for instance, during the coal
shortage, stifled the whole of the eastern
coast, if not the whole State. That should
not have happened if we had had more
hydro-plants.
By hydro-plants I don’t mean large and
costly dams which take years to build and
astonishing overhead to maintain, to-
gether with big, costly, intricate plant for
generation and very high voltages to over-
come distance. What we need are more
of the humble but more effective small
hydro-plants on streams in many dif-
ferent places.
There are many streams un and down
our coast and inland, too, where small
weirs would add untold wealth to the
land and, at the same time, become a
steady source of power. A grid system of
small hydro-plants from 1000 k.v.a. to
2000 k.v.a. scattered all over the
Contributors of political comment
during the forthcoming election
campaign should indicate that they
are prepared to have their names
and addresses published to comply
with the provisions of the Com-
monwealth Electoral Act.
Commonwealth would decentralise a
national asset and. by stabilising a smaller
voltage, do away with the present use of
unwieldily high voltages. Wirebuster
(N.S.W.).
Food
While our industries should not be
neglected, the building-up of farm pro-
duction should have first place in Aus-
tralia. In this country of high wages,
steep tariffs, long distances, industrial
troubles and diminishing output per man-
hours worked, we will find it more and
more difficult to compete with the outside
world.
India, China, Japan, the Malay
Peninsula and adjacent lands and islands
are the logical customers for our food-
stuffs and raw materials which they can-
not produce themselves.
Every encouragement should be . given
at home to increasing farm production,
migrants should be brought here who are
willing and ready to work on the land,
and better roads, housing and electricity
should be provided for the country
dweller.
Our geographical situation is right,
climate is excellent and the land will pro-
duce with man’s help. Primary pro-
duction should, therefore, be the dominant
feature of Government policy.—C. B. M.
(N.S.W.).
Root of the Matter
I agree with “C.8.5j|.” (B. 12/10/’49)
that it takes some thousands of pounds to
build and equip even a moderate hotel.
That’s just the point. To buy a licence
or lease takes so much money that there
is little left to pay for the tangible assets.
Thus many who are well qualified and
keen to run a pub are prevented by lack
of sufficient funds from doing so—their
capital simply won’t run to both tangible
and intangible assets. The suggestion that
pub prices should be “controlled” just
shows that faith in that blessed word is
still intact in some minds after all these
sad years. Without an “open go” the
public is not likely to get anything re-
sembling service. As for the “authorities”
supervising and enforcing requirements
laid down in the different Licensing Acts,
one has only to look round and see what
the supervision amounts to now. — Ceg
(Vic.).
I came to New Guinea after the war be-
cause I thought there would be a chance of
making a good start up here. By the time
I got the credit for my deferred pay, the
disposals sales were over, but most of the
stuff had gone in bulk to southern buyers
anyway. Then we tried for hand tools
down south. Sometimes airmail letters
were answered by airmail, sometimes not;
usually there were no tools of that kind in
stock. In contrast, I wrote to a British
firm for a catalogue, received it, sent my
order and draft and have received my
receipt and notification of mailing all
within six weeks. What is this new feeling
of “Damn you. Jack, I’m all right” that
seems to pervade Australian business?
I can only see the lost markets of the
N.E.1., Malaya, the Philippine Islands and
other close and rich prospects. —C. L. D.
(New Guinea).


Romantic Anthology. Mr. Read, techni-
cally speaking, wobbles:
“To fight without hope is to fight with
grace,
The self reconstructed, the false heart re-
paired.”
Then I turned with a smile, and he
answered my salute
As he stood against the fretted hedge,
which was like white lace.
No poem in the English section stands
out with the quiet certitude of Edwin
Muir’s “Birthday,” but among a group
of short stories there is a contribution by
Antonia White—presumably an English
writer which has something of the
same assurance. It is called “The
Moment of Truth,” and that moment
comes when a neurotic wife, struggling
with her husband as she tries to jump
out a window into the sea because he
has been unfaithful to her, hears him
say out loud, “I want her to die”: a
revelation which shocks both of them
back into normal marital relations. It
is a clear and crisp piece of writing and
an ingenious exercise in pyschology.
Also among the prose there is an
effective fantasy about a Jew, driven
mad by persecution, who thinks he has
found a last place of refuge on the
moon; and a very weak-kneed story
about an effeminate young man who is
persecuted by his father with oaths,
kicks and plates of soup. Portions of a
“romantic” novel, Mervyn Peake’s Titus
Groan, in which the hero is stated to be
eighteen months old when the story ends,
appear to deal symbolically with the
birth of a child but might just as satis-
factorily represent a nightmare or
nothing at all; they are illustrated by
some pen-and-wash drawings of a certain
cadaverous intensity.
The poems in the English section are
by Alex Comfort, Os Marron, Nicholas
Moore, Paul Potts and others. Mr.
Potts, like Hugh Mac Diarmid, suffers
from politics and writes like this:
The King is dead
Long live the king
His Majesty King Man.
The English writers, not being able, like
the Scots, to feel that they are under the
domination of England, cannot write
nationalistic poetry of the protesting
kind* so their feelings of protest take an-
other direction, and, in the poems by
Herbert Read and Stephen Spender and
one of Alex Comfort’s, they object to
military conscription.
Leaving aside the general “romantic
link” perceived by the editors, Stefan
Schimanski and Henry Treece, the
chief connection between the writers is
the influence of the early poems of the
Welsh writer Dylan Thomas, which re-
sults ip a rather squashy sort of mixture
of sex and religion. Nicholas Moore
exploits this tnysticism with an under-
lying melody that may yet lift him clear
of Freud; and Os Marron has some
feeling for landscape and coalmines as
well as for Thomas’s technique:
Once in summer in the kiss of grass
I saw myself above them on the rim of a
sphere,
the stars underground, the night-sky of coal
where the pick can take a universe in one
and loose the fossil wind, the black planets
in a spittle of nebulas, the Milky Way.
The poetic value of “spittle,” a word
which is also employed by Alex Comfort'
and the political Mr. Potts, may be over-
estimated ; but “the fossil wind” is a
striking image for the elements that move
in a mining disaster.
Dylan Thomas, significantly, is Repre-
sented among the Welsh writers in this
anthology only by an early poem,
“Light Breaks Where No Sun Shines,”
and is stated in one of the essays or
manifestoes with which the book is
sprinkled to “stand rather aloof” from
the Personalist and Apocalyptic move-
ments which his explorations have in-
spired. Had one of his later, more
simply lyrical pieces been included, there
would have been at least one outstand-
ing poem in the Welsh section to set be-
side Edwin Muir’s poem, Antonia
White’s short story and a gay ballad
about whisky from an Irish writer; but
as it stands the Welsh corner reads
tepidly. It consists chiefly of vague
landscape poems, lacking both the flash-
ing precision of W. H. Davies and the
freshness of the later Dylan Thomas.
Huw Menai’s “Autumn” may be selected
as an example of the general weak-
ness ; —■
With passion ablaze are the hills and a grey
sky lowering;
All ominous even to the owl at his lonely
mope;
While dew and the rain into hoar and the
flake are flowering
For the grave of the dead and the cradle
of new-born Hope.
If this sort of minor moping fairly re-
presents the present state of poetry in
Wales it seems obvious that the
flowering of the Welsh genius, which
has been a literary phenomenon for a
decade, has not, except in Dylan
Thomas’s poetry, extended beyond the
short story and the novel.
The Irish section, like the Scottish, is
interesting because its writers have been
less publicised than the English and
Welsh groups. Very little has been
heard of Irish poetry since the great
days of Yeats and Synge. The virtues
of most of the writers included are chiefly
negative: they are not, Ireland having
for good or ill departed from the Empire,
pugnaciously nationalist like the
Scottish ; they have largely escaped the
influence of Freud ; they do not compose
anthems for the masses after the manner
of Mr. Potts. On the positive side, they
are stronger than the Welsh in their
landscapes—
Groined by deep glens and walled along
the west
by the bare hilltops and the tufted moors,
this rim of arable that ends in foam
has but to drop a leaf or snap a branch
and my hand twitches with the leaping
verse—
and those of them who use an Irish
idiom have made a happier alliance
between standard English and the
local variation than such barbarous
jugglers of words as Douglas Young:
you do not have to read the Irish with
a glossary,
Padraic Fallon’s ballad on “Raftery’s
Dispute with the Whiskey,” from the
Irish of Antony Raftery, is antiquity
brought up-to-date by a sophisticated
mind, and for that reason seems more
sincere, more valid, than the masque-
rades of the Scots. And, except for
Edwin Muir’s declaration of love for the
earth, it is the only poem in the anthol-
ogy that springs from delight. Raftery
has knocked a candle over with his
bottle of whisky and it has set his beard
on fire ; he addresses the bottle:
Troy in its tall sticks never burned with a
blaze
As bright as Raftery’s hairs when that evil
spark
Leaped on his skull and from that holy
rooftree
Pitchforked his spluttering thatch;
Shame on you! not even Mercury who rose
Out of the cradle to fall on evil ways,
Stealing cattle, would hobble my wits and
roast them
Hide and hair like that in the fire of my
face.
Patrick McDonogh, who introduces
the Irish section, admits that “the wind
that was blowing the sparks to flame in
the earlier years of the century blows
no more, but says that there has been
“a remarkable outburst of activity in the
arts in Northern Island. He also says
that the best poems by Padraic Fallon
and some kindred writers drawing their
material from medieval Gaelic arc too
long for inclusion in the anthology.
While one can thus learn from A New
Romantic Anthology something of what
the newest arrivals are doing in the
British Isles, it is too loose and too
vague a book to give a clear
picture of the literary scene as a whole
or even of any particular movement,
Basically it emerges from the Apoca-
lyptic and Personalist movements, of
which it gives some incoherent de-
scnption, and which employ an imagery
from Preud and from Nature in opposi-
ti°n to the Lewis-Auden-Spender school,
which took its imagery from the
factories and the outward appearance of
society. This is supposed, by some con-
venient generalisations, to have revived
the ancient warfare between the classic
and the romantic, and so the anthology
broadens out to include any modern
writing that may be defined as romantic.
It spreads out so widely and in so
many directions that it loses all force as
the embodiment of any one idea: and
becomes, simply, a haphazard collection
of stories and poems by young writers,
some of whom will be heard of again
and some not. But one is grateful for
it, for it is pleasure to meet Padraic
Fallon, and it is always interesting to
know what’s Scots and what’s Potts.
The Crocodile Trick.
It is a habit of certain writers of
travel-books, among whom is the Danish
Hakon Mielche, to subject their readers
to prodigious doses of information. This,
you might think, is< inevitable, for a
travel-book must by its very nature deal
in information. But the right kind of
information comes from intimate know-
ledge or the impassioned delight of dis-
covery ; and the wrong kind, like most
of Hakon Mielche’s facts in The Amazon
(Hodge), comes from hearsay, from geo-
graphy-books, from guide-books, from
official tourist pamphlets and, above all,
from the author’s determination to pad
out his very thin knowledge of the coun-
try into a sizeable and saleable travel-
book.
It is done by a kind of trick. You go
to Belem, at the mouth of the Amazon,
and there you meet an adventurer named
Neil Brink. Neil Brink tells you his life
story, which is packed with the most
amazing exploits, and you retell it to
your readers. Your readers begin to
think that, even if you are not telling
them much about the Amazon, you are at
least giving them their money’s worth
of drama. Then you let the cat out of
the bag.
It is entirely composed of statistics: a
very formidable kind of cat. Neil Brink
has had something to do with the U.S.
Army in Brazil during the war and facts
and figures trip merrily off his tongue—
“l came down here to build 20,000 w.cs.
.....During 1945 S.E.S.P. gave 195,000
treatments [for malaria] without receiv-
ing a penny for it..,.You see, from
1942 to 1946 we doubled Brazil’s pro-
duction of rubber—shanks to our doctors
and nurses.”
And there you are; you have your
reader crammed up to the neck with
patriotic facts about America and start-
ling statistics about rubber; and you
have led him so gently up the garden
path by the story of Neil Brink’s adven-
tures that he has no chance to escape
even if he doesn’t care if Brazil’s rubber
production has been redoubled or even
halved.
And, hang him, he should care! Is
not rubber important? Is not the whole
world crammed with important facts
which everybody should know? And
does not the Amazon teem with facts?
So you skip across to an island in the
river-mouth and run into a tame buffalo,
luckily mistake it for a wild one and,
before your reader realises what is hap-
pening, you are charging at him like a
mad bull with facts and figures about
all the buffaloes in South America.
• Then, having filled about half your
book before your journey has really
started, you hop aboard the river-steamer
and set off in search of Colonel Fawcett.
Fortunately, you see some rubber-trees as
you travel and you must leave the Colonel
to his fate while you unreel further
statistics for a couple of hundred miles.
You see the tree whose bark makes
quinine; you tell your reader all about
quinine, and your bite is worse than its
bark.
All this time Colonel Fawcett is dying
of fever or poison or something, or pos-
sibly living as the Emperor of El Dorado.
However, you do not really intend to
leave your comfortable steamer to go
and look for him. You are convinced he
is dead. All you really want to do is
to tell your readers his story; you
tell it. • They listen. They have to.
How can they escape you on a river-
steamer?
Now you are at your destination, the
surprisingly civilised city of Manaos,
away the deuce up the Amazon. You
take your reader for a harmless little
walk round the town while you search
for someone who will tell you where to
find a crocodile ; by the most astonishing
good luck you encounter the manager of
a crocodile-skin factory and, before your
reader has had a chance to run away,
you have filled him so full of facts about
the crocodile-skin-industry that he sinks
like a stone to the bottom of your book
and drowns. For, by a singular coinci-
dence, he has had a lifelong loathing of
facts about the crocodile-skin-industry;
if he is forced to it, he prefers facts about
peanuts; but do not take advantage of
him, for he is not passionately addicted
to them, either.
Finally, and with a most disarming
frankness, you expose the trick yourself
by describing how you wanted to take
photographs of a crocodile-hunt for your
small son—and your large readers —and,
all the wild crocodiles being miles up-
river from Manaos, how you bought a
croc, from the Manaos Zoo and let it go
on the riverbank and, while you were
trying to take pictures of it, were knocked
flat in the mud by a swish of its mighty
tail.
And if Hakon Mielche’s whole book
seems somehow as meretricious as that
crocodile, he has indubitably travelled
many and many a mile up the Amazon,
and describes the river as it is today,
and tells so many facts about it that the
reader need never look up the encyclo-
paedia or—a crowning mercy—listen to
James A. Fitzpatrick on the subject. It
is all lightly, gaily and charmingly done,
like a trip up the Amazon with a harrow-
ingly well-informed dragonfly.
"THE BULLETIN" CROSSWORD No. 42
Across.
I—When the receiver’s in trouble
with middle-aged amours? (5, 4)
6 —Correct piano has this in which
one excels. (5)
9 Haw-haw might be its only-com-
ment for this one description of
a Nazi trooper. (3)
10— Beauties among the virtuous
spectators. (4, 7)
tl—Eighteenth-century Virginian who
executed suspected people with-
out fair trial. (5)
D—Clad the least graduate with the
balance. (6)
15— Fish for 6d. (5)
16 — Fruit of a Zola production. (5)
17 — I had a Gilbertian feminist. (3)
18— East has a breather with a sudden
forward thrust. (5)
19— Peers into 500 instruments for
Hawaiian bands. (5)
20— It’s spread by the bee stream in
Italy and upset the little heroine
of The Old Curiosity Shop. (6)
21— Be in the heart of the radical
man of iron? (5)
24—Gradual weakening of all the
tissues is to gasp before getting
an award. (11)
27—Timber like aspiration. (3)
(CRYPTIC TYPE.)
(.Solution in next issue,)
28— It’s game to fiddle the wrong
way. (5)
29 — The audience for all incredible
stories are just about at pickles.
(9)
Down.
1— Fly swallows the criminals with-
out a single mistake. (10)
2 Be wicked all over again, by
gum! (5)
3 This guy is obviously upset. (3)
4 Duck the motherless muscular
twitch on the vocabulary. (11)
5 Ground-up fish. (3)
6 Store employee is to knock out
an Australian wicketkeeper. (5, 6)
7 Hat stores (anagram). (9)
8 — Wagnerian dreamer makes a bad
sale. (4)
12 — Nothing in the apartments on
the mount can carry thorough-
breds about. (5, 6)
13 — Winter wear for the wide athletic
bounder. (5, 6)
14 — They may be struck to get bigger
betrothals. (3, 7)
15 — Snow under the swagman. (9)
22 — Brag in Snake-street. (5)
23 — Potato. (4)
25 Queer spirit. (3)
26 American longing for ex-enemy
money. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 41.


i mm
> : &
X
■
m
k :
m
.
:
mm
m
m
R. J. Hissey, fitter and turner apprentice,
operates a lathe in the well-equipped appren-
tices’ shop at the Whyalla, S.A., plant of
B.H.P.
mr\ i ]
/
k
17
i
When I Grow Up ..
Just a job or a career?
The door is wide open to boys who want to leam interesting
crafts; who want to be expert tradesmen.
The steel industry’s staff training scheme teaches the boy his job
by putting him in the care of the country’s finest craftsmen, men who
have been selected for their ability to pass on their knowledge and
skill. He goes to approved technical schools and colleges to study
the latest techniques and methods of his calling. Fees are refunded
to proficient students.
The steel industry’s policy is to promote from within. No matter
where the boy starts the mines, the mill, the ships, or the drawing
office he has a ladder before him and experienced hands are ready
to help him climb to success and security. Any of the following
companies will be glad to supply you with further information
regarding employment opportunities in the steel industry.
THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY CO. LTD.
P.O. Box 196, Newcastle, N.S.W.
P.O. Box 21 , Whyalla, S.A.
AUSTRALIAN IRON & STEEL LTD., P. 0., Wollongong, N.S.W.;
COMMONWEALTH STEEL CO. LTD., Waratah, N.S.W.;
RYLANDS BROS. (Aust.) PTY. LTD., P.O. Box 245, Newcastle,
N.S.W.; AUSTRALIAN WIRE ROPE WORKS PTY. LTD., P.O.
Box 437 E, Newcastle, N.S.W.
m
a
in
mm t
e
