

PURPL
A PRODUCT OF THE
f
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 70—No. 3605
Wednesday, March 16, 1949
Price 6dL
Registered dt the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
REFUGE OF CHARLES II, THE CASTLE OF MONT ORGUEIL, CHANNEL ISLANDS.
PART of the fortifications of the Castle of Mont Orgueil are reputed to
date from the time of Cassar’s invasion of Gaul, and the islanders still
hold it famous in their folklore. In 1374, when Jersey was invaded by an
army under the celebrated Constable du Guesclin from Bretagne, the principal
inhabitants of the island retired to this castle for safety; the siege lasted
several months until the French forces retired in despair of capturing it.
In 1461, Nanfant, the Governor, a dependent of Henry VI, /was prevailed
upon, by an order of Queen Margaret, to surrender it to a Frenchman,
Peter de Breze. Although he kept possession of it for several years the
natives, under the command of, Philip de Carteret, a family long illustrious
in the Jersey annals, prevented him from completely subjugating the island.
Sir Richard Harliston, vice-admiral of England, afterwards recaptured Mont
Orgueil and put an end to de Breze’s usurpation.
The fortifications rise tier upon tier to the summit of the headland.
A small circular apartment at the summit of the castle was the habitation
of Charles (1660-1685). This Prince, when his unfortunate father fell into the
hands of the regicidal party, found a loyal welcome in Jersey. Here he was
recognised as King, when in England they sought his blood. During his
lonely sojourn in this remote part of his hereditary dominions, he is said to
have employed his time by making a survey and delineating a map of the
island. The inhabitants, justly proud of eight centuries of unblemished loyalty
to the throne of Great Britain, still refer to his residence as a memorable
event, and in no other part of the British dominions is the memory of the
“Merry Monarch” more respected.
During the war of 1914-18 a strong garrison constantly occupied the
Castle of Mont Orgueil.
The present inhabitants of the island are recognised as being the lineal
descendants of the warlike Normans who established themselves in the North
of France in the ninth century.


d
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.’ 1
My Name
My Address
S.B. 249
AGE
The Red Page
CHURCHILL'S PAINTINGS .
The name of Winston S. Churchill is,
of course, vaguely familiar. He had, if
one remembers rightly, something to do
with politics during the late war. But in
Painting as a Pastime (Odhams Press,
Ltd.), Mr. Churchill appears before the
public as an artist, in which capacity he
is practically unknown.
In his essay on “Painting as a Pastime,”
reprinted in the book from two essays
which originally appeared in Thoughts
and Adventures, Mr. Churchill is, natur-
ally enough, not quite clear as to the
relative importance of art and politics:
When we look at the larger Turners —
canvases-.yards wide and tall —and observe
they are all done in one piece and represent
one single second of time, and that every
innumerable detail, however small, how-
ever distant, however subordinate, is set
forth j/iturally and in its true proportion
and relation, without effort, without failure,
we must feel in the presence of an intellec-
tual manifestation the equal in quality and
intensity of the finest achievements of war-
like action, of forensic argument, or of
scientific or philosophical adjudication.
But if here he forgets that war, “for-
ensic argument” and science, though
man’s aspiration may be seen in them,
are the affairs of ephemeral mortality
and that, while philosophy lumbers to-
wards eternity, art creates it—what are
all Napoleon’s battles worth beside one
of “the larger Turners”? —Mr. Churchill,
for the most part, approaches art with all
humility.
On his theme of “Painting as a
Pastime” he writes, indeed, with the
most engaging modesty. He took up
painting, he says, because when he was
o,ut of office during the Kaiser’s War and
desperately in need of an entertainment
that would relieve his mind of the stress
of “knowing everything without being
able to do anything,” he happened to
experiment one. Sunday with a child’s
paint-box and foimd that dabbling with
the colors soothed and fascinated him.
At once he bought a set of oil paints
and found that the earth had become
enchanted:
I found myself instinctively as I walked
noting the tint and character of a leaf, the
dreamy, purple shades of mountains, the
exquisite lacery of winter branches, the dim,
pale silhouettes of far horizons. And I had
lived for over forty years without ever
noticing any of them except in a general
way, as one might look at a crowd and
say, “What a lot of people!”
1 think this heightened sense of observa-
tion of Nature is one of the chief delights
that have come to me through trying to
paint... .Then the galleries of Europe take
on a new—and to me at least a severely
practical—interest. “This, then, is how
painted a cataract. Exactly, and there is
that same light I noticed last week in the
waterfall at .” Not only is your obser-
vation of Nature sensibly improved and
developed, but you look at the master-
pieces of art with an analysing and a
comprehending eye. The whole world is
open with its treasures.
But this approach to art, simply appre-
ciating and trying to record the beauties
of nature, without training in craftsman-
ship, is that of the amateur. It is to
make art something like botany or bird-
watching ; the most amiable and innocu-
ous of occupations, of the greatest value
to the individual as a means of refining
his sensibilities, but still no more a hobby.
And amateurs do not publish, or allow
Odhams Press to publish, 18 of their
paintings reproduced in color. To do
that is to come boldly before the public
as an artist, a professional.
Mr. Churchill had, in fact, been led
towards a modest professionalism once
he. began to study the masters. He found
himself most attracted by the French
Impressionists, noting their disconcerting
tendency to “fall in love with their
theories,” thereby “sacrificing fidelity,”
but Captivated by the sparkle of light and
color in Monet and Manet and with even
a good word to say for the plodding dul-
ness of Cezanne, and the scrawls of
Matisse.
When one comes to the color-plates
of this professional artist one finds—in
spite of poor reproductions—something
very interesting. In the plate dated
September, 1945, entitled “The Mediter-
ranean Near Genoa,” the work is dis-
tinctly amateurish, with an excessively
wooden tree. In “Church by Lake
Como,” done in the same month of the
same year, the light on the church is
glaring and the mountains in the back-
ground have the characteristically chunky
and harsh quality of a Cezanne. The
leaning tree in “Lakeside Scene,” of the
same period, though the color is pleasant
and the composition graceful, does not
float in the air like a Corot. Mr.
Churchill, as a professional, was not
painting well in 194f>.
But when one reaches “The Loup
River, Quebec,” exhibited at the Royal
Academy in 1947, one sees that Mr.
Churchill was hung in that august com-
pany not as a politician, but, legitimately,
as an artist. There is a green mass of
foliage reflected in sparkling water and
contrasted with,sunlit shingle, and not
only is the picture far more fluid in
treatment than the 1945 crop but it is
original and distinctive.
And “The Goldfish Pool at Chart-
well,” exhibited at the Royal Academy
in 1948, is equally charming and more
strongly distinctive. If the original is
as good as it seems in the reproduction—
with its floating branches and reflections
deepening in green and purple, and its
red fish twining among green reeds —
it is a picture that might well give Lance
Solomon and William Dobell a run fdlr
the Wynne Prize.
Mr. Churchill is, in short, clearly im-
proving as an artist and may be en-
couraged to proceed. It is a singular
and sobering thought that, if he spends as
he hopes to do “a large part of his first
million years in eternity” learning to
paint and painting, he may find beside
him, chastened and reformed, one Adolf
Hitler, who, long ago, before he took
to international crime, aspired to paint,
as well as houses, gentle little pictures of
the landscape.
Silbermanna.
Students at Sydney Conservatorium
were fortunate to hear the nine lectures
by Dr. Alphons Silbermann, now pub-
lished as Of Musical Things (Grahame
Book Co. ; Angus and Robertson),
because Dr. Silbermann is, as he says of
his Parisian acquaintance, Jean Cocteau,
“an inspirer all round.”
Dr. Silbermann is one of those rare
about music who is more anxious
to pump his subject alive with new
thought than to file it away, labelled and
numbered, in some mortuary index. Take
him on Mozart:
His work is written in the style of his
period, with little rjbbons here and there,
and powdered wigs. Mozart was brought
up in a courtly atmosphere. When he was
a baby, he was slapped on the behind by
queens and emperors, and called “little
genius.” Then, in his mature years, he was
thrown into miserable poverty and squalor.
If you approach his music logically and
aesthetically, you will see that he was trying
to recapture and express tlje loveliness of
his youth, all the things which he could no
longer have, and wanted so much. All his
profound longing to return to the world as
impressed upon him in his youth emerges
in his music, combined with the style de-
manded by his time and his customers.
That is simple and, being said, seems
obvious; yet what a light it throws upon
Mozart’s music! Or observe how the
production of a single fact can add sig-
nificance to Wagner;
You have probably seen paintings of him,
very grim-looking, in velvet jacket, strange
beret and a big tie hanging out. This
clothing was as strange in his own day as
it would be today. It was part of his
design for living.
With a set of these facts we are led to
the conclusion that Wagner had “the soul
of a ham,” but of “a ham blessed with
genius” ; and we conclude also that the
book Dr. Silbermann is engaged on. The
Sociology of Music, should be worth
getting when it comes out.
These present lectures, which deal with
music against a background of history,
philosophy and sociology, are a much-
needed reminder to Australians that
piano-playing is not machine-minding,
but only begins with mastery of the
machine. They are extraordinarily out-
spoken, on ■ such subjects as Bernard
Heinze, Miss Doris Fitton, Mr. Neville
Cardus; and in style they show no
Mozartian effort to recapture the love-
liness of Dr. Silbermann’s youth.
Maybe, as a baby, he was not “slapped
on the behind by queens and emperors”
—and indeed, in a recent essay in Sydney
“Sunday Herald,’' the Emperor Cardus
showed some willingness to supply this
deficiency—or perhaps Dr. Silbermann,
anxious to be really at home in his new
country, has mistaken the Hollywood
argot of King’s Cross for Australian
idiom. His impatience with critics who
betray the large cause of art by snicker-
ing in corners over small errors is much
to be praised, and his picture of Berlioz
falling in love with an actress after
“seeing her as Ophelia in Shakspeare’s
‘Othello’ ” may be dismissed as no worse
than a misprint. But it is surely his
incomplete command of English which is
responsible for his stricture on Mr
Cardus for (allegedly) saying:
Her rendition of Schubert’s “Trout”
sounded like a flounder.
<t This, according to Dr. Silbermann,
“does not mean anything to the girl.”
Now, that sentence does not sound like
Mr. Cardus ; but granted that Mr. Cardus
said something involving Girl, Schubert’s
Trout, and Flounder, it cannot be agreed
that the idea is meaningless. Perhaps, to
Dr. Silbermann, it would have sounded
the same as “Girl-Trout-Bream.” But
Australians hear the trout rising in
the wonderful Schubert accompaniment;
plop-plop-plop on the piano, while the
singer lies on the bottom of the stream,
as flat as any flounder —or flounders
about at the old Australian pastime of
making a dirge out of swift Viennese
rhythms.
The remainder of Dr. Silbermann’s
warnings against Mr. Cardus —that he
uses wit, that he uses adjectives, that he
reviews new works after hearing them
only once —resolve themselves into the
charge that Mr, Cardus is a journalist
and not a musician.
But who has done more to induce
appreciation of music into Australia in
the past ten years than Neville Cardus?
Who else could have delivered his A.B.C.
“Enjoyment of Music” broadcasts? As
Dr. Silbermann says of Wagner, so we
can say of Neville Cardus: He has the
soul of —let us not say “a ham,” but a
name equally obnoxious to the Doctor —
a journalist, but of a journalist blessed
with genius. Or something very close
to it.
Dry Naval Story.
The criticism offered here of Frances
McGuire’s The Royal Australian Navy
applies also to New Zealand’s Naval
Story, by T. D. Taylor (Reed). There
is overmuch detail, and insufficient story.
There should always be something to
interest a layman happening in a warship
—whether it is the timed crash of con-
trolled broadsides in action or the regula-
tion covering the growth of a beard.
Conceded that no naval story can be all
fume and fire —though the author has
two great wars to help him out —there is
plenty of opportunity to lighten the
peace-time grey of the picture. But ships
arrive in and leave harbor with the
regularity, and monotony, of daily ship-
ping reports. And even in his sea battles
Mr. Taylor uses the brief, wan light of
starshell for his illuminant instead of the
glare of a searchlight.
He writes of the first naval V.C. won
for service in New Zealand:
It was awarded to seaman William
Odgers, of H.M.S. Tiger. During the
attack on the Maori pa at Waireka,
Taranaki, on March 28, 1860, by a force
of 60 ratings from the warship, com-
manded by Captain Peter Cracroft, Odgers
was the first man to enter the pa, where
he hauled down the Maori flag. The Cross
was presented to him at Devonport, Eng-
land, in 1862.
A V.C. is, of course, a rare distinction ;
a naval V.C. is even rarer; but for a
seaman to win one calls for something
wholly exceptional in the field of applied
courage. Mr. Taylor covers the incident
in six lines. Another typical paragraph
is:
After a week at Russell, the ships sailed
for Auckland, berthing there on March 14,
later visiting Hauraki Gulf for gunnery
practice and then coming south. They
berthed at Wellington on March 23 and
remained five days. After Vendetta had
visited New Plymouth the destroyers left
for Sydney on March 28, hut Canberra
visited Lyttelton and Dunedin, sailing for
Sydney early in April.
The present reviewer remembers those
particular movements of the visiting Aus-
tralian squadron. A storm caught up
with the unit south of Hauraki Gulf,
splintered Stuart’s seaboats into match-
wood, heeled and tossed and screwed her
and wreathed a garland of slimy seaweed
round the mouth of her funnel and blew
all ships into Hauraki Gulf for shelter.
Surely a storm severe enough to run a
destroyer, of all ships, for shelter is as
much part of the naval “story” as dates
and times and ports of departure?
The book is most disappointing in its
meagre account of Achilles’s part in the
hounding of the Graf Spec. In his fore-
word the author states that “the activities
of N.Z. naval craft in the recent war
are being historically recorded by the
Navy authorities, and that is why only
brief reference is made to some of the
principal events.” But that seems insuffi-
cient reason for limiting a description of
the nation’s proudest naval achievement
to little more than one page.
MACNELL.
Gabriel Chevallier.
When Gabriel Chevallier’s The Euffe
Inheritance was reviewed recently on the
Red Page it occurred to the reviewer
that, though Chevallier’s first novel to be
published in English, Clochemerle, has
had a steady sale in Australian book-
shops, very little is known about its
author. A letter of inquiry to his pub-
lishers, Seeker and Warburg, brought the
reply from David Farrer, the firm’s pub-
licity manager:
Chevallier is a man in the early fifties, a
native of Lyons, where he now resides. He
has published in French some ten novels
as well as a book of memoirs, Chemins de
Solitude, and is already established as one
of the most important writers in France.
So far the only books of his to have been
translated into English are the three you men-
tion [Clochemerle, Sainte Colline and The
Euffe Inheritance ], but translations are now
being prepared of two further books, M.a
Petite Amie Pomme (which will probably
be given the English title of Little Pippin)
and Mascarade (Masquerade in English).
The former is a charming, sentimental
account of a young waif whom Chevallier
befriended, the latter comprises four long-
short stories which we here consider have
very special merit. These two books will
be published in England in the course of
the next year or eighteen months.
I am sorry that I cannot provide any
further details about M. Chevallier’s career,
but despite repeated efforts 1 have been
unable to secure any more information from
him.
Chevallier is not the kind of writer
who —until he has been dead for a couple
of centuries—-is much discussed by the
intellectuals. He is neither startling nor
obscure. But he is worth watching all
the same. The distinguishing qualities
of his novels —simplicity, comedy, a lively
appreciation of feminine charm and a
profound understanding of human na-
ture —are also the qualities that have
made Fielding immortal in English litera-
ture and Maupassant in French,
Ewers Faithfully.
In For Heroes to Live In (Georgian
House), a sequel to Men Against the
Earth, Mr. John K. Ewers has added
another documentary novel to the ever-
growing pile of Australian documentary
novels.
The test of the documentary novel is
whether it would lose by being presented
as a document; and there is very little in
For Heroes to Live In that could not
have been gathered in a fortnight by an
A.B.C. special reporter, and broadcast as
a documentary of a Western Australian
farming community.
What does Mr. Ewers add to this of
creation and drama?
Ross Daniels, his country school-
teacher, returns from' World War I, gives
up teaching for farming, marries Arvie,
a former pupil; they have three children,
buy a motor-car and a tractor, and run
into the Depression, when Ross Daniels
kills himself by accident.
There is a character called Ted who
beats a charge of incest, comes back to
the community of Yorallin, takes unto
himself the wife of an Irish mercer called
Allanooka, plays the horses, and ends up
in the Perth gutter—the most rounded
character in the book.
But even this splendid creation is only
an incident. Mr. Ewers, like T. S. Eliot’s
holidaying secretary, “can connect no-
thing with nothing.” Nothing that any-
one does makes things happen in a chain
which draws the whole countryside into
one complex action. This novel is more
like an expanded diary.
Maybe Mr. Ewers intended it to be.
For instance, Ross Daniels might have
killed himself because of melancholia
brought on by World War I. He might
have killed himself because the Depres-
sion had caught up with him. Instead,
he is killed by accident, getting through
a fence with a shotgun. “Realism,” see?
Life is like that.
But, granted that Mr. Ewers was right
in not killing Ross Daniels because of
war or Depression, why kill him off just
because of “realism”? There is more
than room for suspicion that Mr. Ewers
slew his hero because he wanted Mrs.
Arvie Daniels freed for the spectacle of a
brave young widow running a farm and
bringing up a family in his next novel.
Reviewed Briefly.
Saints Over the Border: Margaret
Gibbs (Hollis and Carter). Stories of the
Scottish and Welsh saints. For children.
* ♦ * •
Brahms by Peter Latham is the latest
addition to Dent’s admirable “Master
Musicians” series, edited by Eric Blom.
* * * •
Know Your Orchestra: Alice Brown
(F. W. Cheshire Pty., Ltd.). Leads from
a short history of the orchestra into an
analysis of the use and range of each
instrument. A valuable help to the con-
certgoer who would like to be on more
intimate terms with strings, woodwind.
brasses and percussion.
* * * •
“History and Bibliography”: This New
Zealand magazine, which lives at 99.
Hereford-street, Christchurch, should be
of interest to specialists in its sub-
jects in Australia as well as in New
Zealand. The second issue has articles
on book-production and -collation.
Katherine Mansfield’s early days m
London, the controversy over the Thoma.-
J. Wise forgeries and the variou-
extremely animated books thereon, ae-
on collecting books and bookplate?
Historical articles deal with churn
history in Canterbury and (from the ren
niscences of a settler) early days in Chns.
church. The material is rather scrappt
presented ; the format attractive.


TRUTH AIN ADVERTISING’
ITHOIIV HOIUIEMS’
Famous English China and Earthenware
MEAKIN’S 41-PIECE EARTHENWARE UTILITY SET
English “Spode”
Set of Three Jugs
in Pink Briar de-
sign. If, 2/ and 3f
pint capacity. The
set, price ... 45/-
A
English Bone
China Tea Cups
and Saucers,
White with fine
Gold line. Price,
half dozen, 27/6
[Tuscan English
Bone China Cof-
fee Cups and
Saucers in plain
Peachbloom. 6/6
at
&
English 7-piece
Salad Sets in rich
Amber or Green
glass. Set, 15/11
Utility Set of Cots-
wold pattern com-
prising 6 each dinner,
dessert, bread and
- butter plates, 6 oat-
meal bowls, cups and
saucers, 1 meat dish,
covered veg. dish,
cream jug and sugar
bowl. Set, £6/19/11
m
m
Tuscan English Bone
China Teaset
With Chinese Tree pattern, Tus-
can English Bone China Teaset
comprising 21 pieces. £5/19/9
i
m
m
*
*
m m
h
m
■
m
A
■
m
English
5-piece Pyrex Set
Comprising 2-pint oval casserole,'
one bread pah, IJ-pint
pudding dish, 1-pint oblong
pie dish, one tart pl ate ’ B^in.
diam. 38/6 set
Available once more!
The famous u Cona” Coffee Percolator
English “Cona” Percolators with chrome-plated
fittings, available in four sizes.
No, 1, 4-pint capacity 80/7
No. 2, 1-pint capacity 95/6
No. 2a, IJ-pint capacity 114/3
No. 3, 2-pint capacity 133/10
CHINA AND GLASSWARE DEPT.—THIRD FLOOR
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY; M 2401


ask a housewife . . .
mm
wmm
*ii
*<**??<*&*>
Z_
Wa
m
mm
A
€^±
h
m
M
i
•M?
■ ■ ■■■
? i
-■m-
> '
of
K
mi
:.y
r
S'
6^^ —
what she thinks
STAINLESS STEEL
Modern housewives sell more stainless
steel than the professional sales-executive
does. They know little or nothing of
technicalities, but they do know that
no other metal meets their needs as
stainless steel meets them. The manu-
facturer and the engineer will be wise
to heed “housewife opinion”. It is the
most powerful influence in the world of
domestic equipment. ARMCO is willing
and glad to co-operate with manufac-
turers and engineers in the solution of
any problem in which Stainless Steel
does or can play a part. As distributors
of high grade Stainless Steels, they have
at their disposal data and general
information which can be of the utmost
value.
ARMCO
STAINLESS STEEL
Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney
422 Collins Street, Melbourne
319-325 Queen Street, Brisbane
C.M.L. Building, 41 King William Street, Adelaide
, N.S.W.
Victoria
Queensland
South Australia


The Bulletin
VoLTO—No, 3605
Wednesday, March 16, 1949
IT’D ALMOST MAKE A COMMO LAUGH!
“In the Representatives H. L. Anthony, M.H.R., asked the Prime Minister if, in view of the shortages of essential goods in Australia, ha would seek an audience with
Comrade Sharkey and ‘the leaders of Marx House, Sydney,' to try to persuade them to cease their disruptive tactics. Mr. Chifley, ‘speaking angrily and quickly,’ refused
to answer the question.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 252IBB; 'Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opposite
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
WAR ON DOCTORS.
Mr. Chifley is at last going to coerce
a powerful union. He has declared war
on it. Coercion will take the form of
withholding payment of half the wages
due to individual members of the union
and prosecution for resistance to official
direction in details of their daily work.
The union is the British Medical Asso-
ciation. The coercive measures are to
be enforced partly under the National
Health Act and partly under an amend-
ment to the “free”-medicine law, where-
by the Government will, by regulation,
declare it an offence for any doctor to
write a prescription except within the
new Government formulary and on a
Government form.
This development in Mr. Chifley’s rule
by bludgeon is not as yet raising any
obvious qualms among the industrial
unions. Nevertheless some “Labor” poli-
ticians are uneasy—so uneasy that
Mr. Chifley manoeuvred to prevent
criticism in Caucus when announcing his
plans. Such resentment as has been ex-
pressed by the general public should find
sharper point when the alleged benefi-
ciaries of a “free” medical service under-
stand that taxation levied by Mr. Chifley
on even the lowest incomes for the sup-
port of “social services” will be spent
(in part) on “fighting” the doctors in the
law courts.
“The Government has a fight on,” the
Prime Minister declares, “and somebody
is going to get hurt.” The whole com-
munity has been getting hurt for a long
time, not only by having to meet the
high costs of this “Government’s” efforts
to by-pass the Constitution, but even
more because of the debauching of its
public, political, industrial and domestic
life through the forcing of regimentation
in half-a-dozen directions upon a sup-
posedly free democracy. Mr. Chifley’s
“fight” against the doctors will be added
to the list of those already started in the
High Court —and being pursued to the
Privy Council as necessary —in
The banks-suppression case,
High-handed taxation procedure
(Magrath’s case),
The Wheat-appropriation case,
Two airline eases held to be violating the
Constitution,
Test case on petrol-rationing control.
Further litigation is foreshadowed as
soon as coercive legislation is applied to
interfere with commercial broadcasting
and to jockey the inter-State shipping
companies out of business. That Mr.
Chifley is already carrying a sufficiently
heavy bag of trouble probably accounts
for his postponement of a further bill to
nationalise commercial insurance business
on to the scrap-heap, involving another
major legal fight on that cause also.
Government coercion of the doctors
illumines clearly the vindictive purpose
and destructive effects of “Labor’s”
nationalisation policy. (Students of th©
“Labor” programme and its history will
be familiar with its condition that
nationalisation is the first step towards
complete socialisation, just as that, in,
turn, paves the way for Communist rule).
Mr. Chifley ? s declaration of war against
the B.M.A. and the doctors is pernicious
and malefic because —
The whole experience before him of New
Zealand and Great Britain is that no
national medical service worth the name
can be established without the co-operation
of the medical profession.
Coercion of doctors will be in violation
of the conditional powers to establish a
Federal medical service’as granted at the
1946 referendum. (“But not so as to
authorise any form of civil conscription”
was the condition.)
The Government’s own Health Minister
is known to hold that the doctors in their
stand hitherto have a good case. Even
now the Government is legislating to widen
the formulary upon which hitherto it op-
posed the B.M.A.
The Government, having no powers to
make laws on any matter whatever save
“for the peace, order and good government
of the Commonwealth,” is committing itself
to legislation violent, vengeful, and under-
taken for sectional political purposes.
Some members of Caucus in Canberra
had wished, it was reported, for a com-
mittee of investigation to go into the
dispute with the B.M.A. Mr. Chifley
sidetracked that. In • Parliament Dr.
Earle Page was three times rebuffed and
silenced by the Acting-Speaker when he
sought to move resolutions with the
object of eliciting the views of Parliament
on an issue which demands a thorough
ventilation in debate. The Government
would not tolerate any such debate; the
Acting-Speaker had his orders.
To the proposed dragooning of the
doctors let any “Labor” member, de-
pendent upon trade-union votes and rep-
resenting trade-union views, assent at his
peril. Mr. Chifley, having vetoed any
disposition towards moderation and sweet
reasonableness in Senator McKenna, has
now taken charge of the legislation to
put teeth into it —teeth which most people
of commonsense believe the High Court
will order to be drawn at once. Press
correspondents in Canberra expect Mr.
Chifley, in his offensive, to:
Proclaim the Act, issue regulations, and
rouse public opinion by saying that the
doctors are withholding medical services
already paid for by social-service taxation.
Advise the public to pay only half their
doctors’ bills and tell the doctors to collect
the rest from the Government. 1
Prosecute the half-paid doctors if they
refuse to write prescriptions on depart-
mental forms.
If that is not asking for trouble —serious,
far-extending trouble—then Mr. Chifley
does not understand what he is doing.
Any individual in the land ought to be
able to construct an imaginary conversa-
tion between a doctor and the first trade-
unionist who consults him professionally.
The reply of the B.M.A. to the Govern-
ment’s declaration was clear, correct and
emphatic. It asserted that:
The Federal Council of the B.M.A.
wholeheartedly endorses the policy of the
Government to assist the people in meet-
ing the costs of medical care a service
they require and for which, moreover, they
have already paid.
Doctors are prepared to co-operate by
giving receipts to all patients setting out
the fees and detailing the services rendered.
With these receipts patients could make
their claims on the Government. The
Government, on the contrary, wants the
doctors to do all the clerical work.
Having received legal advice, the B.M.A.
will take all necessary steps, including legal
action, to preserve its freedom. It will
inflexibly resist;
Subjection of doctors to departmental
regulations in preparation of which they
can have no voice.
Intrusion of a department into confi-
dential relationships between doctor and
patient.
Denial to doctors, through contractual
requirements, of the right to individual
practice outside the Government’s
scheme, whereby a patient would not be
able to choose his own doctor.
In essence, the doctors regard the
requirements that they shall prescribe
only on Government forms and submit
to be paid half their fees by a Govern-
ment department as compelling them to
become Government servants. They fur-
ther object on their own behalf, and on
behalf of their patients, to being made
liable to reveal to some Government
official, as a condition of being paid
their full fees, intimate private matters
on which patients have consulted them.
What this would mean to the practice of
a family doctor needs no explaining.
Of course, the real issue is not this
Government-made “fight” at all. It is
whether public opinion in this country
is to be riven with dissension over essen-
tial reforms in improving “the quality
of health” of the community. As Prof,
Ryle, of the Oxford Institute of Social
Medicine, initiated in 1939, has explained
in a recent book, the medical profession
is intent upon directing national health
schemes into maintenance and improve-
ment of health, as opposed to merely
physicking an accepted morbidity in the
population. This is far above the ideas
of “free” medicine and universal panel-
doctoring planned by the Chifley Govern-
ment. The crudities of official control
of the medical service as exposed in New
Zealand have justified the B.M.A.’s pro-
tests there. The Socialist Government<®h
Britain had to alter its mulish opposition
to the doctors —mulishness very similar
to that shown in Canberra now.
What the B.M.A. refuses to tolerate is
subjection to the dead hand of a regula-
tion-run bureaucracy when the establish-
ment of a national medical service offers
opportunity for preventive measures
against disease, along with research, mod-
ernised methods of treatment and educa-
tion of the community for co-operation.
But the public won’t get those benefits
out of the Socialist Government’s cry
for a “fight” against the doctors.
Sharkey and "Aggressors. "
Mr, J. T. Lang and the Opposition
attempted in vain to secure an effective
debate in the House of Representatives
on the insolent statement of the Aus-
tralian Communist party’s Fiihrer, Com-
rade Sharkey, who said that the working-
class would welcome Soviet troops who
came to Australia in pursuit of aggressors.
The gag was applied ruthlessly. The in-
terjection of Dr. Earle Page—“ Why don’t
they gag Sharkey instead of us?” —was
ignored by the “Labor” Ministry.
There was no doubt about the mean-
ing of Sharkey’s statement. And there
should be little difficulty in proving that
the apparent qualification in it —that the
Soviet troops would be welcomed “in
pursuit of aggressor —is no qualification
at all. It is one of the axioms of Com-
mifnist technique that no person has the
right to resist Communist action. Who-
ever does so becomes technically an
“aggressor” in the Communist sense of
the word and is due for liquidation.
It is a pity that, instead of the usual
“inquiry” by Senator McKenna, a royal
commisson cannot be appointed, since this
would reveal, if the facts were brought
out and the proper witnesses sworn, a
consistent Communist policy, directed
from Moscow, for just on 30 years. The
evidence is all available, and there should
be no trouble in getting hold of witnesses
if the Government agreed to give absolu-
tion to a few of its followers in the inner
circle of Government.
One matter which can # be proved from
the official files of Communist journals
is that the Communist party of Aus-
tralia was accepted into the Com-
munist International in terms of a letter
signed by W, Kolarow, afterwards a Com-
missar for Foreign Affairs in Moscow
and recently one of the dictators of Com-
munist Bulgaria.
It can be shown that this letter began
by stating that the Australian party “has
accepted the 21 conditions which form
the present and future tactics of the Com-
munist International.” It can be proved
that the admission of the Australian party
was achieved by resolution of the Small
Bureau of the Comintern, sitting in
Moscow. And the details of the 21 points
which the Australian Communist party
accepted as conditions precedent to its
admission to the Comintern can be estab-
lished, because they were published in
this country in the official organ of the
Communist party. They included the
following:
4. A systematic and vigorous propaganda
must be carried out in the Army. Com-
munist nuclei must be formed in every
military unit. Most of the work will be
illegal, but to refuse to do it would be
treason to revolutionary duty and incom-
patible with membership in the Third
International (Comintern).
Another was:
6. It is the duty of every party desiring
to belong to the Third International to
denounce not only avowed patriotism but
also dishonest and hypocritical pacifism,
and systematically to demonstrate to the
workers that without the revolutionary
overthrow of capitalism no international
court of arbitration, no discussion of the
reduction of armaments, no democratic
reorganisations of the League of Nations
can preserve mankind from fresh imperialist
wars.
It can also be demonstrated that other
conditions of affiliation accepted by the
Australian Communist party were:
15. Parties desiring to belong to the
Communist International should give un-
qualified support to all Soviet Republics in
their struggle against counter-revolution.
They should untiringly preach refusal of
transport, 'munitions or supplies to the
enemies of the Soviet Republic and, whe-
ther legally or illegally, they should carry
on propaganda amongst troops sent against
the Soviet Republic.
16. All decisions of the {Comintern]
Congress and of the Executive Committee
of the Communist International are binding
upon all parties affiliated with it.
All these conditions were restated by the
Comintern, and formally re-accepted and
reprinted by the Australian Communist
party, just before World War 11.
If the evidence of the official organs of
the party are not sufficient to substantiate
these facts and arrangements, then Mr.
Chifley should have plenty of authorita-
tive witnesses on hand, penitents who
have eaten large quantities of sackcloth
and ashes and risen to great heights as
self-advertised constitutional authorities.
The commissioner would find, if the
evidence is properly put before him, that
at the Comintern conference of 1922,
Earsman, as the leading Australian dele-
gate, said (Official Report, pages 218-9):
In the theses [of the Eastern Bureau] is
a proposition which we believe will be most
successful in combating the work of the
capitalists in those countries, and the trade-
union congress in Melbourne this year
passed a resolution deciding that the best
method of bringing about a solid under-
standing between the workers of the North
and South Pacific would be by calling a
Pan-Pacific Congress. Such a Congress
would bring the workers of Japan, China,
Malaya, India, America, Canada, Australia
and New Zealand together, and they would
be able to thrash out the problems they
are faced with Our , first duty is to unite
all national revolutionary movements in the
colonies into an anti-imperialist front
We must organise the working-class of
these backward countries because the
proletariat and semi-proletariat of those
colonial and semi-colonial peoples is of
vital importance for the victory of the
world revolution.
It can be established that though Mr.
Bruce’s Federal Government banned the
meeting of these colored ruffians and
criminals on Australian soil, the Russian
delegate, one Rubanov, arrived after an
All-Australian Trade-union conference
had been held in August, 1926, to which
Garden made his report.
It can be shown that the Australian
trade-union congress resolved to issue
an appeal to the colored workers of
the Pacific pointing out "the necessity
of unification of their forces against inter-
national capital,” And it can also be
shown that years of organisation were
carried on in the Pacific the heads of
the Australian Labor movement, begin-
ning with the adoption of the Pan-Pacific
Communist policy by the first meeting
of the A.C.T.U. on the specific initiative
of “Jock” Garden and E. J, Holloway,
one of Mr. Chifley’s own present Minis-
ters.
It can be demonstrated that Sharkey’s
statement on the “Australian attitude” is
merely one of a long series of such state-
ments, the prototype of which is con-
tained in a report from the Australian
Council of Trade Unions delegates which
went to Vladivostok in 1929—Fred Rods
and P. G. Hannett from N, S. Wales, and
F. Walsh from South Australia —and
there met the heads of the Communist
parties and the R.I.L.U. to pass resolu-
tions which were in accord with the
present revolutionary activities taking
place in the Pacific and Indian Oceans,
these being put forward and steered
through, in the main, by Losovsky, head
of the Red International and later, during
World War 11, the public-relations com-
missar of the Soviet Union Foreign Office.
At that conference the leader df the
Australian delegation. Reels —not a Com-
munist delegate, mark you, but a dele-
gate from the Australian Industrial Labor
party and later a Labor member of the
N. S. Wales Legislative Council —said to
the assembled Communists of Vladi-
vostok, according to the official report:
When we saw the land of the Soviet
Union, it was a great inspiration to us to
know that we were about to land in the
only workers’ republic in the world
Comrade Ardveeva (U.S.S.R.) mentioned
in her speech the question of war and the
Soviet Union. She stated that the workers
of Russia realise all that war means to the
working-class. It means the spilling of
their blood. She said that the Russian
workers, although they do not want war,
will defend the Revolution regardless of
the price. Her speech was most inspiring,
and we can assure the Russian workers
that they have many friends in Australia
who will assist them against the imperialist
butchers. We are also aware that in all
countries the Russian proletariat have many
friends who will assist them behind the
lines of the enemy. I am of opinion that
the imperialists have refrained from attack-
ing the Soviet Union because of this
reason.
And what would a Crown witness
against Sharkey say if confronted in
cross-examination with some of the
annual reports of the Labor Council of
New South Wales —and some of the
“Labor” stalwarts associated with it?
One specimen reads:
In the wars of capitalism we are pacifists;
in the class-war we fight to the death....
not a man and not a cent for imperialist
war for the protection of capitalist in-
terests; but all forces assembled prepared
for every sacrifice in the fight against all
forms of capitalist domination.
If there is one bump which is developed
on the cranium of Mr, Chifley it is the
bump of self-preservation. Neither he
nor Senator McKenna is likely to allow
any public action to be taken against any
Communist which would result in the
public demonstration that the policy
which the Central Committee of the
Communist party is now carrying out
was actually brought into being by men
who are now, or have been, among the
organisational and political heads of then
own party —the Australian “Labor
party.
Road-trains in the North.
A fleet of six diesel-driven road-trains
is expected to be operating in western
Queensland by the middle of this year,
carrying fat cattle from stations along
the Georgina to Dajarra railhead. Ihe
fleet will cut weeks off the time it now
takes to walk the fats to rail.
Marion Downs Pastoral Co., which has
interests extending into the Territory,
tried two road-trains last November and
was so pleased that it ordered
Cost of the six will be about £40,000,
they will put cattle on a string of s^ a “° ns
within 24 hours of the railhead, and their
total capacity will be about 170 tats,
equal to a complete Queensland stock-
train of nine vans. It is expected to -
crease tlie turn-off of fats from the
stations concerned by 20 p.c.
Marion Downs is not alone in tm
enterprise. Last September a 42-wheeled
road-train, 135 feet long, «paW* f
carrying 80 large cattle or 200 sheep at
20 m.p.h., powered with a diesel develop
big 2(X) h.p P , was driven from Melbourne
through Adelaide to Ahce Springs* to
join two others in carrying
N.T. stations to Alice Springs radhead
The advantages of these outfits to th
far outback can well be .
as well as starving stock m drought-tun . ,
can be transferred 200 nute iu %y-
On foot such a journey would take stro g
cattle a month or more, while poor c
wouldn’t make it. The same PP
sheea And on return-trips from rad
heads the road-traim . V
quantities of goods for the out^ ck ’
eluding fodder in bad .times aw
cess of the road-trains Pf
whether or not they can be made to P T
It’s to be hoped that they do pay ana
that their number multiplies.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Acid-test on Chifley.
For all his fencing with the question in
Parliament, Mr. Chifley will have to take
active measures against the Soviet fifth-
column in Australia if he is going to save
Australian industry from collapse.
“The threat to our democratic insti-
tutions,” as the Graziers’ Association
president said last week, “has become
stronger in the past twelve months.” Its
menace is to be remarked especially in
the contempt for the Arbitration Court,
and for the Government’s fantastic efforts
to control the economic consequences of
its policy of “full employment” at higher
wages for less work.
The Bulletin’s own belief, frequently
stated, is that nothing can avert the
natural and disastrous effects of Socialist
lolly if continued ; that Mr, Chifley’s call
for frugality in popular spending is, in the
absence of example from his own Gov-
ernment, merely crying down the wind;
and that his failure to get that “more
production” for which he has been
appealing this past two years is directly
related to his tolerance of Communist dis-
ruption, and is fatal to his whole planned
programme. The Communists whom he
has condoned and excused are now in-
solently exploiting his encouragement (by
this showing) of their “philosophy.” They
are out to overthrow him, as he has long
been warned they would. The first means
they have selected to this end is the over-
loading of the basic wage—the soaring
of which has been the Chifley Govern-
ment’s boast —in order to bring about an
industrial collapse.
The Communists’ plan of operation was
disclosed with the lightning strikes on the
Melbourne waterfront called after the
arrest of the secretary (Doyle) of the
Ships’ Painters and Dockers’ Union for
having illegally distributed pamphlets in
the city streets. The notorious Mc-
Phillips of the Communist-run Iron-
workers’ Association had been allowed
by the A.C.T.U. to conduct the prelimin-
aries before the Arbitration Court of its
claim for a basic-wage lift of 355. a week,
McPhillips, at the opening of those pre-
liminaries, appeared as for the metal-trade
unions, demanding a basic wage of £lO a
week ; he then disclosed that this demand
“would be extended to cover all unions.”
The basic-wage hearing has been fixed for
May 17.
< Meanwhile Doyle had been arrested.
Among his- handbills which caused the
trouble was one alleged to be in-
citing discontent against the court
for not proceeding with the hear-
ing forthwith. On the evening of the
day the arrested Doyle was remanded he
presided at a meeting, attended in strength
by Communist union-leaders, at which
McPhillips, as A.C.T.U. advocate in the
basic-wage case, said the unions “do not
trust the people in charge of the court to
play the game,” and that “the case will
be decided outside the court.” Next day
Flanagan, the Ironworkers’ branch secre-
tary in Victoria, announced:
An immediate campaign for an interim
increase in the basic wage of 305., apart
from what might result from the A.C.T.U.
application to the court. .
Simultaneously the Building Trades Fed-
eration executive held a meeting to pass
a resolution that Mr. Chifley’s appeal for
more production and less spending was
“reactionary and ridiculous.”
With the whole Communist phalanx,
including the “New Housewives,” aligned
on this direct-action front, and with the
Federal Government induced (after much
hesitation) to “intervene” before the court
as in the 40-hour-week case, the Com-
munists have now squarely presented
Chifley with their line of action:
That the court’s awards, unless “satis-
factory,” will be rejected;
That the demand is for a doubling of the
present basic wage—to some £ll 15s. a
week,.
That the claims will be enforced, con-
currently with the hearing, by direct action —
and it is to be presumed that Mr. Chifley
will either aid and abet this effort to
“impress the court” or take the conse-
quences.
The Prime Minister must be a remark-
able “philosopher” himself —or another
gutless wonder —if he accepts the terms
of this insolent Communist ultimatum.
Virtue of Bass Strait.
If the Speck does not look out it may be
cut out of the Chifley Government’s
“Golden Age.” That is, if it has not
already decided to cut itself out. Cer-
tainly something is going very wrong
with the “Labor” programme there in the
eyes of “the movement.”
Two Parliamentarians, who happen also
to be doctors of medicine —one of them.
Dr. Turnbull, held the fate of the Slate
“Labor” Government in his hands for
months, and the other. Dr. Gaha, is re-
tiring from the House of Representatives
in disgust—are fed up with the Socialist
legislation to coerce the B.M.A. The
broadcast opinion of Premier Cosgrove
himself that the 40-hour week was “pre-
mature” seemed timed to cause embar-
rassment to the Canberra Government ;
Mr. Chifley had just consented publicly
to “intervene” (as in that earlier case) in
the Arbitration Court’s forthcoming hear-
ing of the claims for a £lO-a-week basic
wage. Now Mr. Cosgrove has shown
himself proof against renewed pres-
sure from the A.L.P, to join the Federal
Government in the Privy Council appeal
against the High Court judgment over
the Bank Grab Act—pressure to which
the mainland State “Labor” Governments
of N.S.W. and Queensland have had to
yield. And yet this is Mr. Chifley’s pet
socialisation scheme!
Premier Cosgrove and the Tasmanian
A.L.P. don’t like the Bank Grab, they
don’t like the socialisation of medical
practice, they don’t like the 40-hour week.
Even the fact that their island produced
Senator McKenna does not reconcile
them to these essays in political bushrang-
ing. McKenna himself would have lost
his place in the Tasmanian “Labor”
Senate team for the coming elections if
the A.L.P. from the mainland had not
rushed over reinforcements at the
eleventh hour.
One of the Prime Minister’s reasons
for taking his holiday in Tasmania this
year was, he said, to wander about the
place and find out what Tasmanians
IT WOULDN’T STAY IN THE CUPBOARD.
“On the eve of the Privy Council hearing—and the Concord and Cobar (N.S.W.) by-elections—
the news leaked out that the ‘Labor’ Governments of N. S. Wales and Queensland were
intervening in the Commonwealth Government’s appeal against the High Court decision on the
Bank Grab Act. ‘Labor’ had obviously tried to keep its move secret until the
were over.”
were thinking. It is .pretty clear
now that Mr. Chifley was a little dis-
turbed by the aversion to the socialisa-
tion policy of “Labor” on the mainland.
The simple answer is possibly the true
one, however disconcerting—that they
simply don’t like jt. Chifldy must also
have remarked that the island is rela-
tively free from political strikes and other
activities of “Labor’s” Communist allies in
the bigger States. Certainly Communists
in Tasmania are as rare as the dingo.
Meanwhile the Speck and its “Labor”
Premier seem to say, echoing the senti-
ments of Douglas Jerrold about the Eng-
lish Channel, that the best thing they
know between Tasmania and the main-
land is Bass Strait.
"Not Faintly interested."
When, if ever, the royal commission
into the New Guinea timber-leases comes
to an end there will still be several in-
teresting questions unanswered. They
may be classed as “human-interest
stories” rather than matters of high
policy. For instance, Sydney punters
would be interested to know the names
of the Flat bookies who accommodated
Mr. “Bill” Urquhart by taking his hun-
dred-pound bets when he dashed into the
Flat in the intervals between watching
races from the Paddock, and students of
economics would probably find most
illuminating a precis of the course of
lectures in political economy which the
younger Garden alleges his father, Jock,
gave some years ago to Dr. Evatt and
Messrs. Ward and Beasley. A further
human-interest story which seems likely
to remain untold is what became of
Ainslie St. Aubyn Kingsford, the bank
clerk who disappeared on January 28,
1948, five days after he had produced in
court documents relating to the visits of
Mr. Ward to his safe-deposit box.
Last week the matter, already the sub-
ject of previous questions in Parliament,
was again raised in Canberra by Mr.
Holt, who asked thg Prime Minister
whether it was true, as stated by the Vic-
torian Police Commissioner, that no re-
quest had been received by his depart-
ment to carry out any inquiries in Vic-
toria, there having been reports that
Kingsford had been seen in that State.
Mr. Chifley replied that he would discuss
with the Acting Attorney-General,
Senator McKenna, the possibility of re-
questing Victorian police to investigate.
The fruits of the “discussion” were
seen next day when McKenna was
asked whether the Commonwealth
Security Service was likely to make or
recommend an all-States search for Kihgs-
ford. He replied:
I know nothing of Kingsford being
required for Commonwealth purposes. I
am not faintly interested until the com-
mission wants him or unless the counsel
advising the commissioner advises he is
interested in him. Unless the commissioner
has some need of Kingsford for a witness
Kingsford just falls into the ordinary
category of missing persons.
From a strictly legalistic viewpoint the
Minister’s attitude may be correct, though
the prospect of the Senator, '‘not faintly
interested,” being suddenly, along with his
Security Service, galvanised into action
at a word from Justice Ligertwood or
Mr. Shand is rather alluring. But the
revelation that the Victorian police have
not been asked to make any inquiries
about Kingsford is surprising, to say the
least. If he falls into “the .ordinary cate-
gory of missing persons” surely the N. S.
Wales police as part of routine investiga-
tions would circularise his particulars to
the police in other States and ask for
their co-operation? That much would be
an obvious step. But the N. S. Wales
force is not renowned for doing
the obvious. It searched the world for
years for the “Pyjama Girl” murderer,
who all the time was drink-waiter at the
then commissioner’s favorite night-club.
Garden on Ward.
J. S. (“Jock”) Garden, for years Com-
munist boss in N. S, Wales, and after-
wards “Labor” M.H.R. for a Sydney
constituency, did not, as had been antici-
pated, object to giving evidence at the
inquiry into E. J, Ward’s administration
being conducted by Justice Ligertwood,
of South Australia. Nor did he present
Ward as a sea-green incorruptible, as
might have been expected from remarks
attributed to Garden at previous pro-
ceedings. However, he flatly denied hav-
ing told Farrell that he had given Mrs.
Ward money, or that Ward was “sweet-
hearting” his private secretary.
Garden was in the box for part of
three days. The Minister, he said, was
promised a fifth of the money coming
from Hancock and Gore for die “sale”
of a timber-lease in New Guinea, and
actually received £5OOO, through “Bill”
Urquhart, the Manpower man; but then
lost his courage or hardihood. In the sug-
gestion of Sirhon Isaacs, Garden’s counsel.
Ward, after getting the £5OOO, “wanted to
renege,” and tried to put the onus on his
permanent officers, arranging for Garden
to solicit a recommendation from those
officers because “he lacked the courage to
do it himself.”
Garden denied having pocketed £30,000
from Farrell, He gave the amount as
£6500, and £5OOO went to Ward,, as
“Farrell knew,” plus £4OO for “legal
expenses.”
I told Farrell Ward wanted an interest
and Farrell agreed to Ward getting 20 per
cent.
Part of his own cut went in buying
racehorses. With partners he had three,
Merry Miller (Miller also happens to be the
name of, Ward’s counsel), Torrie and Stot-
field. Stbtfield died ; ftie others wfcre sold.
Garden wa f s under cross-examination
when this page had an appointment with
a printer. Ward has still to figure in the
box, and in view of statements that his
leader and one of his colleagues were
acquainted with the allegations against
him long before the present inquiry was
ordered, he can scarcely be the only
Ministerial witness called.
The Better American Way.
The feckless crowd on the Treasury
benches at Canberra is talking fight again,
this time to the B.M.A. doctors. The
doctors needn’t worry. Wifh number-
less and never-ending opportunities of
standing up to Communist wreckers and
lawbreaking union mobs, whose mount-
ing list of injuries inflicted on the country
must, unless arrested by sterh action, end
in a great calamity, those who threaten
the doctors reserve their fighting for
friendless creatures like O’Keefe’s Am-
bonese wife and her eight children, the
plucky and capable girls who worked for
the U.S. Government and Army in
Manila and other places, arid elderly
people of both sexes who provided for
their old age by frugality and thrift.
At these elderly people “Labor” strikes
savagely with its tax-weapon. As a case
in point, a Sydhey widow, a great-grand-
mother, was ordered to pay over £lOOO
on a net income of £l4OO. Part of the
bloodsucking impost was exacted in
advance for the next income year—a
“Labor” innovation which, if legal, is
monstrously unjust—but at her age and
in her state of health the victim may
never sec a penny of it. In any case, she
has been virtually placed in the position
of having to sell part of the property
from which she draws the income subject
to such licensed banditrf to keep her
house going, pay medical and hospital
bills and maintain her good works, for
which she H&s a high reputation in her
neighborhood.
In really enlightened countries special
provision is made fdf aged taxpayers.
Such an outrage as that cited could not
happen in the U.S.A. There a v&dow
with the dollar equivalent of £l4OO can
claim an exemption of $6OO for herself
(no Australian taxpayer, male or female,
is allowed any exemption on that
account), another $6OO becrfugfe she Was
65 “before the close of the taxable year”
and a third $6OO if blind. Were the lady’s
husband alive he could avail himself of
additional exemptions ih the same
amounts. And exemptions for depend-
ants, restricted in Australia to spouses,
children (with specified ageMirifits) and
mothers without means and niggardly in
the extreme (the maximum rebate for a
wife is £45, and for each child “under
16” other than the first a mere £8), are
in the U.S.A. on the most liberal scale.
There follow quotations from Your
Federal Income Tax, published by the
Bureau of Internal Revenue:
In order for you to obtain an exemption
you must have furnished more than the
dependant’s support for the year Gener-
ally speaking, support includes board, lodg-
ing, clothing, cost of education, fhedkal
and dental care [and] other similar ex-
penses. The dependant must be a relative
in one of the following degrees: Your
child, or the child’s descendant, stepchild,
brother or sister, half-brother or half-sister,
step-brother or step-sister, parent, grand-
parent or other direct ancestor, stepfather
or stepmother, uncle, aunt, nephew or
niece, father-in-law, mother-in-law, brother-,
sister-, son- or daughter-in-law;
This is generous; and in these matters,
in the long run, generosity pays. What
“Labor” goes in for, especially at the
expense of old people who have been
provident, is sheer brigandage, and where
brigandage prevails more is lost than is
gained.
Back-door Socialisation.
It might be thought that a study of the
history of the first Commonwealth line
of steamers would have been sufficient
to discourage any Government from at-
tempting to repeat the experiment. But
the Chifley Government has never shown
any inclination to learn from the lessons
of history; its calendar begins with
“Labor’s” assumption of office ih 1941.
Loss of public money is not the only,
or the main danger in the Shipping Bill.
Senator Ashley, in introducing the thing
to the Senate, and Mr. Dedman, in per-
forming the same service in the lower
House, were at pains to emphasise that
there were no provisions in the bill for
the nationalisation of shipping. This is
true enough on the surface, and it
would be very strange indeed if there
were, in view of the adverse High Court
decision on “Labor’s” attempt to nation-
alise the airlines. But, as Mr. MenZies
pointed out, there are provisions in the
bill whereby a Socialist Government
could achieve the same purpose without
having to worry about the constitutional
aspect at all. Merely by insisting on a
strict interpretation of the Act it could
in time freeze out all opposition and
(Continued at foot of next page.)


ill
m
m
I
CRAVENA
-—for your
throat’s sake!
Obtainable in
M’s & 20 s
I
CARRERAS LTD.-OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
m
Em*J
W||v/
iT
6745-R
emerge as the sole shipowner on the
Australian coast.
The alleged aims of the bill are to
provide for (i) the maintenance of the
Australian mercantile marine, (y) the
maintenance of the Australian shipbuild-
ing industry, and (Hi) the establishment
of a Commonwealth line of steamers.
The sponsors of the measure in both
Houses claimed that at the outbreak of
war it was shown that the Australian
mercantile fleet was “not adequate for
the tasks it was later called upon to face.”
The truth is that in 1939 the Aus-
tralian passenger-service operating be-
tween Cairns and Fremantle was as
efficient and up-to-date as an/ in the
world, and there were never any serious
complaints about the capacity of the
freighters to lift all cargo offering. That
90 per cent, of all goods carried inter-
state before the war went by sea is
surely ample evidence of that. War-time
demands on tonnage after the best ships
had been requisitioned for use as trans-
ports, troopships, merchant-cruisers and
hospital-ships certainly overtaxed the
resources of the industry, but that state
of affairs was not peculiar to Australia.
Nor was the position improved by
“Labor’s” craven acceptance of Com-
munist control on the waterfront.
The manner in which the mercantile
marine and the shipbuilding industry
are to be fostered is simple—on paper.
All new vessels for the coastal trade are
to be built in Australian shipyards; no
ship shall engage in the inter-State trade
without a licence; and no vessel oyer 24
years old shall have a right to a licence.
The age-limit rule, it is claimed, will
ensure a continuity of work for the ship-
building industry; it is not claimed, but
it is nonetheless obvious, that it will also
provide the means whereby a Socialist
Government can, if it so desires, run the
private shipping companies out of busi-
ness, In regard to new tonnage the plan
is that ail orders shall be placed through
the Commonwealth Government, which
will resell the ships to the companies at
a price lower than the contract price, the
difference representing a Government
subsidy to the builder. That may sound
a fair and generous attitude on the part
of the Government —the generosity, of
course, being at the expense of the tax-
payers. But the scheme must be examined
a little more closely.
In the first few years of the New Order
an abnormal number of vessels would be
due for replacement. At the same time
the Commonwealth Shipping Line would
be anxious to build up its own fleet.
There is no, prize for guessing who would
get first pick of the new tonnage—a
moment’s reflection on T.A.A. Sky-
masters and A.N.A.’s difficulty in get-
ting dollars to buy new planes will
answer that. .
A strange provision of this strange bill
limits the life of a licence to four years,
which suggests that the bill is not the
last that will be heard from the Govern-
ment on the subject of shipping , an
opportunity is being left for after-
thoughts. ,
“Labor” members have complained ot
the “suspicious ’ minds” of critics ot the
Shipping Bill. This bill must be suspect,
as must every measure brought forward
by the Men of Canberra since their
socialisation objective was revealed.
PPOLITICAL POINTS
As expected, “Labor” had an easy win
in by-election for the Cobar (N.S.W.) seat,
which in addition to Co bar, Bourke and
other far-western towns takes in over
4000 Broken Hill electors. On Monday
counting was still incomplete in Concord,
where, on the first count, the Liberal
Mutton, with 9687 votes, was leading in
a field of three. Moloney (Lab.) had
8909 votes and Armstrong (Lang Labor)
2395. At the 1947 election “Labor” won
Concord by 1667. “Labor” forecasts on
Monday gave Moloney 80 per cent, of
Armstrong’s preferences, on which basis
Mutton would have to collect about 70
per cent, of the absent and postal votes
to retain his lead. This was not an im-
possible task —in Kogarah last year the
Liberal polled 62 per cent. —and
“Labor’s” estimate of the Lang prefer-
ences .is based more on optimism than
on fact. When this went to the printer
the result was still in doubt, and McGirr
was threatening “a thorough investiga-
tion” if the postal votes were not in
accordance with “the average percentage
of votes cast.”
McGirr claims to have fought the
Cbbar and Concord by-elections on
“ ‘Labor’s’ honest record,” whereas the
Opposition, according to the same
authority, stooped “to the meanest tricks.”
The meanest trick of the campaign was
perpetrated by honest McGirr, who con-
cealed from the electors, the people and
the Parliament, possibly even from his
party, that he had intervened in the bank-
ing appeal before the Privy Council, thus
lining-up the N. S. Wales “Labor” Gov-
ernment with the Chifley crowd on the
socialisation issue. The decision must
have been taken some time ago, and
secrecy could serve no honest purpose.
Replying to one Edmonds, known only
for being a “Labor” M.H.R. from
Queensland, Calwell threatened to ask
“this ‘Government’ ” for “a searching in-
quiry into the Press.” There is a far
greater case for “a searching inquiry”
into Calwell. Not on the grounds which
obliged “this Government” to have
Ward’s administration probed, after evad-
ing the probing of Keane’s, but with
regard to the change in Calwell since the
implacable foe of Mrs. O’Keefe and the
Manila girls came out —or posed—as an
implacable foe of “Red Fascists” —his
own expressiop. A B.M.A. surgeon might
volunteer to determine whether the Cal-
well liver was always white or whether it
turned that color on its owner becoming
a Chifley Minister.
Demarcation disputes continue to
make the public interest a plaything in
the gang-warfare of rival unions. Cap-
tain’s Flat is still idle through a squabble
between the A.W.U. and the Miners’
Federation, and the Newcastle and Mait-
land coalfields are threatened with a one-
day stoppage on March 21 unless all
deputies and shot-firers leave the Miners’
Federation and join the Deputies and
Shotfirers’ Association, The malcontents
declare, as usual, that “all constitutional
methods of settling the dispute have been
exhausted.” To the modern union-leader
settling a dispute means only one thing—
giving him everything he asks for.
For a great part of last year Dedman,
under fire of criticism based on distrust
in U.S.A. and Britain about secrecy of
C.S.I.R. research, especially in defence
matters, vehemently declared there was
nothing wrong in the Federal Govern-
ment’s toleration of Communist em-
ployees, or in the screening of employees
who might or might not have Communist
sympathies. He denied that it was neces-
sary to overhaul the C.S.I.R. or that any
authorities abroad desired it should be
done. Now he is doing it, and even
changing the name of the institute. “And
whispering” (if Dedman can be charged -
with whispering) “she would ne’er con-
sent, consented.”
One day last week the Prime Minister
was asked whether the Government
would intervene in the wool-store trouble,
which has prevented the loading of more
than 120,000 bales of oversea wool and
thrown more than 1000 men out of em-
ployment. He replied that the dispute
was being handled by “the proper court
authorities, therefore there was no reason
for the Government to intervene,” He
went on to say that Mr. Holloway “was
doing everything possible to settle the
trouble.” Next day it became apparent
that “poor old Holloway” didn’t relish
being left to carry the baby by himself.
His version, as confided to a deputation
in Canberra, was that he and Mr. Chifley
were trying to achieve a settlement.
Commenting that the sales-tax on bis-
cuits for human consumption is 10 per
cent., while dog-biscuits are exempt, a
reader wants to know whether racing
greyhounds eat dog-biscuits. The sport-
ing editor doesn’t know, but says any
“Labor” politician will be able to answer
the question.
C.P. leader Fadden was justly incensed
at being prevented from speaking to the
Lang motion on the Sharkey statement,
Calwell, replying to Lang, made little or
no mention of Sharkey, said there would
be no Communists in Australia “if we
could get rid of monopoly capitalism”
and that the Comrades “were made Com-
munists by anti-Labor Governments put-
ting them on starvation rates of pay,”
Cameron (Lib.) followed Calwell, and
Haylen (Lab.) obediently toed the party
line. Then, as Fadden tried for the call,
Minister-for-the-Gag Scully played his
familiar role. It is a new departure,
even for a “Labor” Government, to apply
the gag to a party-leader. But it is
typical of the humorless Socialists
that “Labor” men saw nothing incon-
gruous in the suppression of discussion
immediately after Calwell and Haylen
had held forth on the evils of suppression.
“Labor” will have no bar of Com-
munism ; their leaders, State and Federal,
are always telling us that. Yet the “How
to Vote” cards prepared for the Cobar
(N.S.W.) by-election exhorted “Labor”
supporters to give their second preference
to the Communist candidate. The cards
arrived in Bourke just after the towns-
people had thrown the Communist can-
didate and a couple of his henchmen out
of the town. Bourke branch of the
A.L.P. gave the cards similar treatment
and prepared their own, placing the
Country-party man second and the
Commo third. They don’t like the Com-
rades in Bourke; perhaps in time they’ll
wake up to the Socialists, too.
Norman Jeffery, one of the Com-
munists somewhat rudely dealt with by
the forthright inhabitants of Bourke
(N.S.W.), is about the last of the original
office-holders of the N. S. Wales branch
of the Communist party —he was the
original secretary of the Sydney branch —
and his membership since has been con-
tinuous. He has held a good many offices
in his time —including the organising
secretary of the industrial 'panel in the
War Loans Office of Mr. Chifley’s
Treasury and organiser to the Chifley-
Evatt committee to organise the industrial
vote for “Yes” in the “Fourteen Points”
referendum of 1944.
At the week-end Minister for Com-
merce Pollard, bested in his primary-
production argument with Casey —in the
course of which the two men who appa-
rently prepare his speeches seemed to
be pulling in opposite directions —turned
on the medical profession. Admitting
that “we owe a great deal to the doctors
for their good deeds and acts of heal-
ing,” he allowed himself the cheap sneer
that it must not be overlooked that in
public hospitals doctors “practised on the
poor” to learn their profession. Under
the “National Health” scheme, presum-
ably, no doctor will be allowed to practise
on anybody until he has thoroughly
mastered his profession.
While the Army Minister, Mr. Cham-
bers, very properly exposed the facts
about a soldier who had gained public
sympathy because the Government won’t
let him return to the small Japanese girl
whom he got hold of at 14£ years old and
whom he calls his “wife,” there was one
feature of the statement which every
soldier will deprecate. That was the
revelation of the soldier’s medical record.
It shows how safe medical secrets are
likely to be under a Commonwealth-run
medical scheme.
The Italian Premier, recommending to
the Itie Parliament his Government’s
decision to join the Atlantic Pact for
mutual assistance of members in the event
of aggression:
Even in the case of war breaking out,
one of the participants in the pact might
have other functions than exactly that of
fighting.
And if “one of the participants” is to be
allowed to sell ice-cream to both sides,
guess who will be leading the rush!
A Soviet Union official employed in
the secretariat of U.N.O. has been caught
red-handed buying stolen documents
from a typiste in a U.S. Government
Department, It seems to lend point to
the fact that the principal assistant
secretary-general to U.N.O. —the one
who administers the Security Council —is
Arcadi A. Sobelev (U.S.S.R.). Perhaps
depredations by him are responsible for
the fact that his president, Dr. Evatt, is
never able to exhibit the same foreign
policy for a couple of weeks together.
Sections of the Press headlined, and
the A.B.C. news service gave prominence
to, a report that five Communists, in
order to obtain the use of the Town Hall
at Port Adelaide, had sworn a declaration
of allegiance to the King. The report
means exactly what it says—that the Com-
rades wanted the use of the hall. To gain
their objective they would just as lightly
have placed their hands on their hearts and
their tongues in their cheeks and sworn
allegiance to Gogmagog or Ned Kelly.
Sydney “Daily Telegraph” ran a fund
to help pay the legal expenses of Mrs.
O’Keefe. Dorothy Dix Daly asked a
question about it in the House, and spoke
of the “political motives” of the con-
tributors. Calwell also threw a sneer at
those who “subscribed for political
reasons.” Whereupon one of the con-
tributors wrote:
Do Mr. Daly and Mr. Calwell regard it
as shameful or disgraceful that their fellow-
citizens should have political views or poli-
tical motives for their actions? If so,
they should feel very uncomfortable when
they realise that politics is their living and
their occupation.
He was wrong, of course, Daly and
Calwell are statesmen; it is only their
opponents who descend to mere politics.
“Chirurgeon”: It is unreasonable of
the B.M.A. to claim that the McKenna
scheme is coercive merely because there
is a £5O penalty for prescribing an item
contained in the Government formulary
on other than the official form.
There are plenty of good specifics
outside the formulary rhinoceros-
horn, dragon’s blood, mummy fingers,
crushed frogs, nail - parings, earth-
worms, snails, camel-dung and a host
of others. The healing profession
before the B.M.A.’s time got along
very well with these for hundreds
of years, and as long as they are not
included in the formulary there can be no
talk of compulsion. A doctor is free to
use these tried and proven remedies or to
take a risk with the newfangled medica-
ments in the formulary. He has a free
choice in the matter; to speak of com-
pulsion is absurd.
Asked to support the Communist can-
didate for St. Pancras, Bernard Shaw
wrote “I am a Communist, and always
call myself so,” but “the Communist
party knows no more about electioneering
than a pig.” As an example, he cited its
opposition to the Marshall Plan, which
“for the moment is absolutely necessary.”
In his Everybody’s Political Whafs
What, published in 1944, Shaw laid it
down that “unless people can choose their
leaders, and can revoke their choice at
intervals long enough to test their
measures by results, the Government will
be a tyranny exercised in the interests of
whatever classes or castes or mobs or
cliques have this choice,” So he has gone
on calling himself a Communist even
while renouncing the principal articles of
the Red ruffians’ creed!


THE SHRINE AT WHICH HE REALLY WORSHIPS.
"Photogrph 's published i n Australia show Dr. Evatt ‘paying homage at Mahatma Gandhi's shrine on his recent Visit to


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Mac Hoots”; It strikes me as a singu-
larly pleasing coincidence that while
Charlie Chaplin’s “Monsieur Verdoux,”
based on a French mass-murderer, is
delighting the talkie audiences of the
world, the police of New York should
have arrested a couple named Raymond
Fernandez and Mrs. Martha Beck, who,
they allege, have confessed ta three mur-
ders of women whom they contacted
through a “Lonely Hearts” club, and
that Scotland Yard should have arrested
a man who is charged with having
murdered a Mrs. Olive Durand-Deacon,
“the vanished widow,” and who is sus-
pected of six other murders. Since all these
crimes must have been committed over
a long period I do not suggest they spring
from the baleful influence of Mr. Chap-
lin’s very pleasant film; but, since they
have been taking place during a period
of prosperity, I think they demonstrate
the absurdity of the theory propounded
by Chaplin that such murders are com-
mitted not by pathological freaks or
sordid money-grubbers but by innocent
bank-clerks, bewildered by being dis-
missed in the Depression. As a clown
Charlie is magnificent; as a psychologist
as a political philosopher he is as
and as innocent as a baby. Inci-
dentally, I find the London man’s method
of disposing of the bodies by dissolving
them in acid more romantic than Mon-
sieur Verdoux’s fuming incinerator in
the backyard, and considerably more
plausible.
» ♦ ♦ ♦
“Nunk”: There must have been a
Jonah or two aboard the good ship “Love
Me Sailor,” which paid-off last Friday
after a four-week voyage under canvas in
Rushcutter Bay Park, Sydney, In the
revised edition of the Victorian court
judgment the book cost the author £l5O
fine and the publishers £3OO. Dramatised,
it celebrated its opening with a law case
in which Mr. and Mrs. Phillip Myers
sought to restrain their partner, Mr.
J. H. A, Speirs, from cashing a cheque in
part-payment for his share in the show.
They claimed that the tent would only
seat 800, and that Speirs had said it would
seat 1380, and that electrical installations
would be £3OO more than the estimate;
and that. Speirs’s share of the partnership
was overvalued at £5OOO. Speirs denied
misrepresentation, and said that the part-
nership had been dissolved because of
differences as to the mannfer in which the
play was to be presented. The Judge
dismissed the Myerses’ application, as
not a matter of equity, but of common
law. Announcing closure of the play
last week, Myers said the show had been
intended to go on, but could not afford
to move on, as it would have to do,
since the Chief Secretary had not
renewed its permit to play on the Govern-
ment site at Rushcutter Bay. He and his
wife came out from Britain six months
ago, and had put £ll,OO0 —all they had —
into the show; complete cost of the pro-
duction was some £19,000, and the hulk
was being offered for £BOOO “just to pay
creditors.” All in all, a very costly love-
affair for a sailor.
* ♦ ♦ •
“Melbn”: Melbourne’s city daddies
have lately been conducting defensive
campaigns on two fronts —against the
Communists and the pigeons. They
thought they had successfully routed the
pigeons when, after long scientific labors
by skilled technicians and sestheticians,
they produced an owl which by a cun-
ning use of the electric current blinked
its eyes in a menacing manner. After
putting the effigy into position they
pointed to the fact that there wasn’t a
solitary bird on the window-ledge where
it squatted. Unfortunately a press-photo-
grapher who took a snap of the field of
victory included a lower ledge with twice
its normal population. Operation Commo
was equally unsuccessful. One John
Rodgers, lately returned from Moscow,
hired the hall for a lecture on the
Workers’ Paradise, and his application was
accepted. Then the council in session re-
fused to observe its part of the contract.
The result was an enormous amount of
free publicity for the Corns., plus a
court case, intervention by the unions,
with threats to cut off the Bumbles from
their champagne and sandwiches for
official receptions, while the lecture in
question got an unexpected broadcast
from the lavatory of a city building, and
turned out to be the usual claptrap about
the Soviet republics as the happy homes of
smiling workers without any of the cares
which afflict the Western countries.
Rodgers then renewed his application and
"Ah! That's heavenly!”
was accepted. As for the owl, any fruit-
grower could have told them that birds
soon get used to any sort of scarecrow,
and the pigeons would probably soon be
r oosting on the statue reading their latest
edition of “Wild Life” by its illumination.
* * * *
“Findy”: Ice-hockey is recognised as
the world’s fastest game, and the Czechs,
by winning the world’s championship at
Stockholm last month clinched their right
to be regarded as the speediest exponents
of the sport. Still, some of their com-
patriots who were not available for selec-
tion could have shown them a clean pair
of heels. Last year six of Czecho-
slovakia’s best players left their country
on tour. Once outside the Iron Curtain
they moved so fast they haven’t been
seen since. The same thing happened a
couple of months ago when two members
of a touting side gave the others the
slip; they are still missing. When the
champions got back from Stockholm
100,000 people lined the streets of Prague
to welcome them. I can’t help feeling
that the big roll-up was a tribute not so
much to the team’s prowess in winning
the world’s championship as to its hardi-
hood in coming back. Not all returned,
though. One bloke, obviously the swift-
est, was missing.
* * * ♦
“T. McN.”: I’ve long been convinced
that opponents of all the political
isms which, boiled down, mean State
totalitarianism haven’t given sufficient
emphasis to what to me is the worst
aspect of them all. Let me illustrate
with this extract from “Soviet Art,”
attacking two Russian comedians:
Only by fully unmasking the cosmo-
politan theoreticians and formalistic direc-
tors who have planted in the arenas of
Soviet circuses alien bourgeois tendencies
can the Soviet circus art achieve a new
renaissance and become a genuine expres-
sion of the spiritual strength of the peoples
inhabiting our great fatherland.
Now, terrifying as this is in its attitude
towards dramatic art and ordinary enter-
tainment, it is far more terrifying because
it is a good sample of bureaucratic
jargon. Only a bureaucrat thinks and
talks like that, and bureaucratic rule of
God’s green earth is surely the worst fate
any of us can contemplate.
“Kinane”: Our accountant is a dapper
little chap with, we thought, the normal
wholesome outlook; kindly and soft-
spoken, he seemed to have just the right
amount of disdain for the Government,
manual workers and other loafers in
the community. No one suspected the
beast in him until one day he was heard
grumbling about the lack of coke-de-
liveries. “Yesterday the wife had to push
the pram half a mile with two bags of
coke aboard. It’s not right,” he whined.
“She’ll break the darned thing and then
we’ll have to get a new one.”
a|c * * *
“Helldud”: Whatever the merits of the
lass-in-the-milk-bath stunt (B. 9/2/’49)
the controversy was excellent publicity for
the Manly carnival. It reminded me of
Percy Hunter, who close on half a century
ago was publicity man of the N.S.W.
League of Wheelmen. Hunter was
organising a cycling carnival, and caused
an outsize uproar by requesting permis-
sion to erect a calico sign on the face
of the Town Hall clock. He never
imagined permission would be granted ;
but he saw the advertising value of his
request and obtained it in full measure.
Not only was his request refused and
condemned by the City Council, but
many public-spirited citizens, roused by
the audacity of it, wrote letters of pro-
test to the press, and the rest of Sydney
roared.
* * * *
“Zake”: The woman driving the big
car dispensed with the silly old method
of going parallel with the front parked
car and backing into the vacant space;
instead she turned her front wheels in.
Seeing that the back half of her car was
still stuck well out into the roadway, she
twisted the wheel sharply and backed. At
an urgent toot from behind she stopped,
got into first, twisted the wheel on the
other lock and shot forward. Her rear
bumper-bar hooked under the off-rear
mudguard of the front parked car, there
came the sound of something ripping, and
she stopped with a jerk, well out into the
middle of the road. Traffic from the
opposite direction tried to pass her and
met the car whose impatient driver was
trying to get around her, and in no time
there was a traffic jam back to both inter-
sections, with a furious tooting of horns.
As the traffic cop got within reach of
her car to try to sort out the mess the
lady got out and pointed to the line-up.
“I do wish you’d make them all shift
on, constable,” she complained. Then,
pointing to the back of her car, “Look
what they’ve made me do! ”
» ♦ * ♦
“Ebrius”: It was a bitterly cold day.
The rain had stopped, but a south-easter
froze the marrow in one’s bones. A
small boy came toddling along the street,
his bare feet splashing happily through
the icy puddles and sending water flying
over his legs and shivers up and down
my spine. “Aren’t your legs cold?” I
asked as he passed. “No,” he said cheer-
fully. “I’ve got three jumpers on.” I
suppose he was right, but I’m still trying
to work it out.
♦ * * *
“Lao-dah”: On the subject of Chinese
Christian names or whatever they call
them (B. 2/3/’49). The tailor who sup-
plied the cable-staff at Foochow with their
sartorial requirements wanted an effec-
tive trade-name, so the staff offered to
design him a sign. It was hung in place
in due course —“Jeliybelly, Tailor.” It
was not only an apt description of the
owner, but it proved an immense draw
and doubled his trade with the European
population.
* * ♦ *
“Bumpkin”: What would have been a
commonplace sight 50 or so years ago
became a phenomenon the other day in
Bass Strait and set wireless-operators
talking excitedly to one another, liners
altering their courses to get a closer view
and the hearts of lighthousekeepers
fluttering. It was a windjammer be-
calmed a few miles off Wilson’s Promon-
tory, the first for many years to be sighted
in Bass Strait, Where almost every reef
and island is beaconed by the bones of
once-proud ships. The four-masted,
square-rigged barque Pamir, on its last
voyage from New Zealand to its Finnish
owners, was the cause of the excitement.
Bound for Port Victoria (S.A.) to load
wheat for the U.K., her master decided to
fluke a fair wind through Bass Strait
rather than take the usual course south
of the Apple Island. She was observed
to be making a hard fight in a light
breeze to weather the promontory against
a strong tide, but gave it up and ran
back to Cliffy Island,
« * * •
“Uco”: The quiz victim was wrestling
with memory in front of the microphone,
though the question was not a tough one
compared with some he might have been
asked. “Come on,” the tormentor urged
him. “All I want is three song titles
mentioning some article of clothing.”
After a long pause the competitor got his
first leg in with “In Your Green Hat.”
“Good,” said the announcer. “Now,
what about two more?” There was an-
other long silence, broken at last by an
excited “ ‘Boots’ —you know, the Kip-
ling thing.” That, too, was accepted, but
it seemed the supply was exhausted. The
quizmaster looked towards the man, at
the gong, then at his victim. “I’m afraid
time’s nearly up,” he said. “You’ve
covered the head and the feet. What
about something in between? Some
article of apparel?” Half a second ahead
of the gong inspiration came to the con-
testant. “I know,” he almost shouted.
“Who Threw the Overalls in Mrs.
Murphy’s Chowder?”
« * ♦ •
“Hamer”: One of the rewards of the
writing business is the satisfaction that
comes when fragments of his work, for-
gotten by the writer himself, are re-
membered. Such a feeling cafhe to me
when “Woody” (B. 2/3/’49) recalled
sortie old contributions to the trench
paper “Aussie” in 1918. I remember the
verse, at least. It began:
I don’t believe that Hans and Frit*
Should all be blown to little bits
“Woody” can be assured that there is
only one “Hamer,” still going strong; my
first contribution appeared in The Bul-
letin over 52 years ago, and the “Hamer”
was adopted as a pen-name a couple of
years later. From sheer force of habit
I may be sending in pars umpteen years
hence about the Devil’s schemes to pre-
vent the Sovietising of Hell.
* * * *
“Ceg”: Mention of Sydney’s tram
troubs (B. 2/3/’49) took me back to 1918
and a spot near Wimereux in France.
A muster parade had been called, and
the R.S.M. was taking particulars of those
men who had jobs waiting for them on
return to Australia. The bloke next to
me gave his occupation as “acrobatic
accountant.” The R.S.M. wrote it
down; but later the orderly-room sent
out for more particulars. The joker ex-
plained ; he was a Sydney tram con-
ductor.
* * * *
“R. Volt”; The long-distance record
for fan-producing surely goes to Miss
Norma Patkin, of Melbourne, who an-
nounces for Radio Australia. The scien-
tists marooned on Heard Island, in the
Antarctic, out of gratitude for the news
of the outside world she gave them and
the bright way she did it during their
14 months’ sojourn on the anchored ice-
berg, have named a penguin after her.
The bird is now in the Melbourne Zoo
and looks extraordinarily like a well-
known male radio-announcer.
« * * *
“Nakh”: I read the other day that
Lord Nelson had lost his other arm, the
Admiralty having ordered the outstretched
limb of the figurehead of the hero over-
looking the parade-ground at Chatham
to be amputated because ratings were m
the habit of hanging old boots, tm-cans
and domestic utensils on it. Adelaide
City Council used to be placed in a
similar predicament over the statue o
Hercules which stood in Victoria-square.
The statue, a copy of a Greek original
now in the Farnese Palace in Rome, was
equipped with the traditional figteaf,
which the lads of the village, for aesthetic
or other reasons, persistently removed,
and the City Fathers as patiently persisted
in replacing. The City
seemed to be the last to hear that me
son of Alcmena had been deprived of
his decoration, and sometimes mon
elapsed before the restorer was sent alon=
to repair the damage. In tho meantim ,
P"* and
moralists argued the matte / f^ o f V the
viewpoint. Hercules must which
very few statues in Australia
haven’t been forgotten two weeks ai
erection.
A BIGGER PARLIAMENT.
"After this year’s general election there will be
60 Federal Senators instead of 86, and 121 Ms.H.R.
instead of 75.”
Which means an extra seventy will be speeding
To Canberra anon to wag their jaws,
Though you and I may search without succeed-
ing
For any really satisfying cause
Or any reason why we should be needing
So many lawmakers to frame our laws,
So many cooks to bake and broil and mash
Ingredients for Parliamentary hash.
The more the merrier, they seem to figure,
Ben Chifley and his philanthropic mob,
Who splash the nation’s cash about with vigor,
And scorn to look too closely at a bob.
Making a shop that pays so finely bigger
They welcome as a patriotic job,
Ensuring for one more deserving man.
A modest thousand-and-a-half per an.
Will this new net, thrown o’er the hustings,
taking
A sweep that’s wider than before, disclose
Potential Pitts and Gladstones in the making,
Deakins in embryo and chaps like those,
Jesters like Reid to set the benches shaking
With mirth and callow Ramsay Macs? Who
knows?
It’s anybody’s guess. All you can say
Is that there’s room for some such, anyway.
Ten Senators for every State to gamble
Upon, and trust to prove the dinkum oil,
Their mission being into their seats to amble
And there endorse the other House’s toil!
Great Caesar! Won’t there be a frantic scramble
To grab this hefty portion of the spoil?
“A bigger Parliament,” its authors yell.
A better one? That waits for time to tell.
N.S.W.
J. THE R.


“J.M.C.”: Mention of St. Dunstan’s
church in the Strand as a likely site for
a war memorial in honor of Australian
servicemen reminds me. An R.A.A.F.
padre arranged with the acting-rector of
St. Dunstan’s that immediately the
war ended the R.A.A.F. would hold
a thanksgiving service in the church.
Months later .VE day arrived, and
at 8 a.m. the padre telephoned the
rector to arrange the service. He got no
reply, so rang again. Still no answer.
As the church-parade had been made an
order of the day, The padre took the
matter into his own hands, went to the
church, turned on the lights, and at
9 a.m. began the service. The rector,
sitting in his study near the church,
heard the singing and, quite ignorant of
the arrangements that had been made,
first thought that he was witnessing a
modern miracle. He crept to the church,
peeped in and saw two padres and hun-
dreds of men. Fascinated, he took a
pew for the rest of the service, thinking
that as his church had been stolen he
might as well be one of the congregation.
♦ * * ♦
“Flea”: So nobody showed more than
casual interest in the flapper on the beach
at Austinmer (B. 23/2/’49)? I know of
one chap who must have had a whale of
a time in his own little way, since he
was able to place on record her every
movement for most of the afternoon.
Mind you, I don’t blame “B. A. Ker”
fqr having a good eyeful, but why be so
scathing about the lass? I’ll wager drinks
that Mrs. B.A.K. was clicking her knit-
ting needles on one end of the chain for
fear her spouse should break loose.
** ♦ ♦ ♦
“Golden Mile”: So “B. Forte” (B.
26/1/’49) thinks the secretary-sexton of
the Stringybark Ridge nailyard possesses
a monopoly of enterprise. Sextons on
the W.A, goldfields always played safe
by keeping half a dozen graves ahead of
Thus, while attending a deceased
cobber’s funeral, it was always possible
that one casually glanced down into the
hollow destined for oneself. I knew at
least a couple of blokes who viewed their
own last resting-places. Both were killed
in the same mine accident two days after
we had buried Mike Hogan.
♦ * * *
“R.A.A. Sargent”; “Mullum’s” postal
official (B. 23/2/’49) is a bit out in his
estimate of half an hour to make a dozen
lead slugs good enough to fool a stamp-
vending machine. With a pair of tin-
snips I’d back myself to turn out at least
thirty, and at 5/- an hour the return is
pretty close to fitter’s wages. Possibly,
too, the slugs are waste from some in-
dustrial process, in which case it is all
profit. The most ingenious method of
fooling a P.M.G. slot-machine is by the
use of “doover” pennies, made by jam-
ming two coppers together with chewing
gum. Add a long thread and their use
is obvious, but modern public phones
have an attachment that jams the thread,
and the P.M.G. gets the gum.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: I’ve never been a dog-
matic adherent to the “Old days were the
best” doctrine, but I silently agreed
with the elderly man who was addressing
half-a-dozen gaudily-dressed youths:
“Recreation is a lost art! Look at this
sports meeting. What fun is there in it?
None! Everybody wants to win. The
sport of it doesn’t count. A lousy ribbon
or a few measly bob is all that matters ;
no odds about who gets cheated in the
process. Why, if they put on a ‘don-
keys’ race’ today I doubt if they’d get a
starter. Never heard of a donkey race,
I suppose. Great fun. You ride a horse.
But you don’t try to win, you ride to
lose. The donkeys’ race used to be the
funniest thing on the programme. You’d
ride your own horse to the starting-post.
then change with somebody else. When
the flag fell you yelled to your own horse
to ‘giddap’ and tried to keep the one
you were riding to the slowest walk he
could do. Last in won. But what’s the
use of talkin’ to you fellers—all you
know is win, WIN! ” Abruptly he stood
up and strode off. “You know, he might
be right at that,” a more quietly-dressed
lad said. “Well, if he feels that way
what did he come for?” demanded a
Hollywood cowboy. “I suppose he
“My first self-portrait!”
thought he’d pick up a few quid,” grinned
a green-trousered hobbledehoy; “he was
running a book on the trots —until Bluey
pulled Redflash and let Black Satin win
the Open Handicap.”
* * • «
“George” (Hong Kong); Some time
ago an accountant in these parts ab-
sconded with a large sum of money. When
he didn’t appear for work and he could
not be found the worst was suspected, and
it was decided to open the safe and
examine the books; but as the key was
normally in the possession of the
accountant the only way was to cut the
lock out with an oxy-acetylene plant. The
job was almost completed when the mail
arrived with a letter from the accountant.
He apologised for absconding, and as his
boss would, no doubt, like to get into the
safe the key was in the left-hand drawer
of his desk!
* * * *
“Reppiks”: Talking of Semaphore
(S.A.) dropping the definite article, I
wonder if anybody remembers Jagoe, of
the long white beard, who reported ship-
ping there for the dailies and hoisted on
the flagstaff the signals which announced
the approach of windjammers and of the
“Could you direct me back to the fitting-room , pleash?”
latest giant addition to the P. and O.
fleet, 8000 tons and all that. The old
man was a pacifist and used to show a
fragment of a projectile fired from a
gun at the Largs Bay fort adjacent. The
gun was only manned for practice, the
crew being sent across from Port Adelaide
in a growler. Russia was the menace in
those days as now, and the imminent
arrival of the Tsar’s navy was frequently
reported, On such occasions the South
•
Australian Navy, the gunboat Protector,
sent for its commander, who slept ashore,
and meanwhile cleared for action. Jagoe
had an inscription on his shell-splinter
stating that one discharge of the cannon
cost the people £25, a sinful waste, in
his opinion. Like Norman Angell, he
maintained that the rising cost of war
would put it out of existence. I wonder
what he would think of modern military
statistics.
* * * *
“Pongo”; “Dalziel’s” pal who fared so
much better from a gastronomic point
of view when he could persuade his
spouse to visit her daughter (B. 9/2/’49)
doesn’t share the experience of a friend
of mine, who avers that the only time
he receives real wifely attention is on
those occasions (and they happen fre-
quently) when there has been an argu-
ment. Then the good lady closes up
like an oyster and absolutely refuses to
converse. But, says my friend, “I don’t
mind. Meals are delicious and more
varied than in peace-times. Clothes are
pressed, cleaned and mended and laid out
ready to don. In fact, she doesn’t give
me the slightest excuse for asking for
anything, and to all intents and purposes
she is a deaf mute while the blue lasts.
Of course, we’re really devoted, and a
box of chocolates usually finishes the
trouble, but, take it from me —when we
have a real argument I live like a prince
until it fizzles out.”
* » * *
“Bo”: Travellers who have observed,
month in and year out, steel rails which
have been tossed with seeming non-
chalance here and there between various
of the six sets of lines from Sydney to
Strathfield no doubt wonder why they
should have remained unused for so long
im view of the acute shortage of steel.
Seeking to clear up the mystery I asked
six railwaymen. Their helpful and in-
structive answers I append herewith: (a)
They are for use of the fettlers doing
that section so they won’t cut their
boots walking on the sharp metal
ballast; ( b ) Dunno; (c) The orange
bloom on the rails acquired through
the long exposure to rust makes
pleasing contrast to the dull-brown of
the weather-beaten metals ; ( d) Dunno ;
(e) Just chucked there; (/) Dunno, My
own theory is that through some slight
mistake in instructions they were put
there to season in mistake for timber,
and that when the appropriate file comes
up for resubmission one of these years,
some livewire will take prompt action
and the rails will be spirited away, to
become the subject of another file under
the heading “Rails for De-rusting.”
* * * *
A salesgirl told me she
hadn’t the size I wanted in sox, but re-
marked, as she handed me a pair a
couple of sizes too large: “You’d better
take these —they’ll shrink the first time
you wash them.” I drew her attention
to the label on the box; “Absolutely Un-
shrinkable.” She said; “Don’t believe the
label; believe me.” I did, and after
the first wash I had to give them to the
missus for our youngest kid, and I
wouldn’t be surprised if they cripple him
for life.
* * * *
“Ceg”: The Golden Age hotel (B.
2/3/’49) is not the only interesting edi-
fice in Tarnagulla (Vic.). There is a
substantial two-storied building with what
appears to be a huge factory chimney
rising from the roof. These premises
were once the Union Bank, and the chim-
ney is part of the smelting apparatus
located in the kitchen. It is pleasing to
picture the scene in that kitchen on a
hot midsummer’s day with the bank-
manager busy smelting his thousands of
ounces of gold in one corner of the room
whilst his wife roasted the fanfily leg
of mutton in the other. I dare say when
the Christmas pudding was being pre-
pared the manager would fling an ounce
or two into the mixture. With the
Poverty mine producing 13 tons of gold
alone, surely an ounce would not be
missed.
* * * ♦
“Camelo”: Australian match manufac-
turers should invest in a box of the
recently-marketed Hong Kong safeties.
The local matches average 60 to a box;
Chinese 60 to 70 —it’s more often the
higher than the lower figure. Chinese
matches are only three-quarters as thick
as those of Australian make; and the
box is correspondingly light. This means
that the Chinese from the same amount
of wood can make four boxes of matches
to our three. There’s nothing shoddy
about the imported matches, and they do
strike,
* ♦ * *
“Jemac”: Why do naval recruiting
posters —improved somewhat on the un-
inspiring lists of rates of pay hitherto
passing as such—invariably feature a
warship under way wearing a Jack from
the jackstaff forrard? There are several
permissible points from which to
stream the colors cruiser Aus-
tralia at Dakar roused-out the largest
Commonwealth Ensign and White Ensign
she carried and draped fore and main with
their whipping colors, added to the White
Ensign on the gaff aft—but the Jack
forrard is run up only when anchor is
slipped or the first line is passed ashore.
Once the ship is under way again that
Jack is down, with a rush; or else the
signalman responsible is.
**i * •
“Cauboy”: “Audiences fought for
admittance to the Olivier shows, but they
stay away from the Shakspearean players
at present playing in Melbourne, so was
it glamor or genuine love of Shakspeare
that moved the Olivier-Vivien Leigh
fans?” asks a correspondent in Mel-
bourne “Sun-Pic.” The answer is
glamor. The glamor, of course, happens
to be a great reputation, for very few
people would deny to Olivier the credit
of being a good actor. The McMaster
hasn’t an equivalent reputation, but as
to whether the numbers attending his
show and the queues that sat for 24
hours in the cold sleet on a Collins-street
pavement to look at the Olivier bear any
relation to the respective merits of Mc-
Master’s Othello and Olivier’s Richard is
another question. Ted Ryall gave a
performance of Hamlet at the University
Union Theatre which seemed to me just
as good as Olivier’s, but he didn’t have
the hallmark. As for love of Shakspeare,
that has been knocked out of most kids
long before they leave school.
* * * ♦
“Euroclydon”: M.Ps. and study (B.
23/2/’49)? It seems that only married
women and politicians are entitled to the
most important jobs on earth without
any previous training. According to her-
self and the cynics, poor old mater-
familias gets all she was looking for, and
her time is of no commercial value. But
your M.P. steps into £l5OO per annum,
plus increments and a pension. Leading
professional men don’t get such a salary
without a university-course and many
years of experience. Naval and military
men don’t get it for less than thirty-years
service. Yet any M.P. in this country
starts off with a four-figure income,
though he may have no better qualifica-
tion than a gift of the gab.
RABBITS.
“The rabbit pest is beyond human control. The
only thing to stop it will be a severe drought.”
—A N.S.W, pastoralist.
Fences and poison, spade and shot.
All snags and snares that come his way
May hinder, but they stop him not.
They’ve never served his march to stay
From New South Wales to W.A.
From north to south and east to west
He crops the herbage blithe and gay.
Can no one rid us of the pest?
No scientist puts on his pot.
Wasn’t the deadly stuff O.K.
Which Dansyz whooped about a lot,
Some forty years ago, I’ll say,
To immolate the plague in grey
And give our ravaged plains a rest
From Canberra to Champion Bay?
Can no one wallop out the pest?
The piper Hamelin Bumbles got
Their surging hordes of rats to stay,
And came to suffer —you know what —
Seeking to bilk him of his pay,
Were he available today
Couldn’t he tap our Treasury chest
For easy millions to display
His magic on the rabbit pest?
A pessimistic squatter, eh?
Still, he should know his business best.
But there’s one remedy, I’ll lay,
For which no church will ever pray
The devastating drought that may
Alleviate the rabbit pest.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


|« Help Solve Yoar Honey Worries /'TO
A personal, confidential service
Is available at the Rural Bank
to those financially embarrassed*
Personal loans from £lO upwards
are made at a moderate rate of
interest with repayments spread
over a period of years. If you*re
troubled about money matters
and unexpected bills* come la
and talk It over*
RURAL BANK
Head Offieet Martin Place, Sydney*
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
62 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO TBE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
The Greatest Show
of them all
ROYAL
EASTER SHOW
9th to 19th April, 1949
9 DAYS AND 7 NIGHTS
Don’t miss the big Ring
Tattoo. 2500 troops in the Wheel of Emp
Will Always Revolve.
Wed. 13th at 8.30 p.m.
THE WILD CAT COLUMN
British Tobacco Co. (Australia), Ltd.
British Tobacco and Subsidiaries.*
/-‘ Dividends >, Nominal
Pref. Re-
Oct., Profit. 64 p.c. Ordinary. serves.)
1940.. 990,140 101,401 10 p.c. = 862,944 1,353.463
Unexplained addition, £ll2l .. 1,354,584
1941.. 978,088 111,188 9 p.c. = 843,474 1,378,009
Unexplained addition, £lOO7 .. . . 1,379,016
1942.. 983,187 111,188 9 p.c. = 843,474 1,407,541
Unexplained addition, £16,112 .. 1,423,653
1943.. 981,427 111,188 9 p.c. = 843,474 1,450,418
Unexplained addition, £9902 .. 1,460,320
1944.. 961,910 111,188 9 p.c. = 843,474 1,467,568
Unexplained addition, £16,305 .. 1,483,873
1945.. 948,915 111,188 9 p.c. = 843,474 1,478,126
Unexplained addition, £13,090 ..1,491,216
1946.. 960,158 111,188 9 p.c. = 843,474 1,496,712
Unexplained reduction, £6083 . . 1,490,629
1947.. 951,403 111,188 0 p.c. = 843,474 1,487,370
Unexplained addition, £736 .. 1,488,106
1948.. 956,324 111,188 9 p.c. = 843,4-74 1,489,768"
* After deducting outsiders’ interests.
t Subject to intangibles (now £3,969,660), and
excludes property and plant reserve, £2,809,659.
Shortage of raw material, mainly Ameri-
can leaf, and consequent lower output
and, of course, continued all-round rise
in costs were the chief factors affecting
operations of this big manufacturing
group—holding co. and five main operat-
ing subsidiaries —last term. The dollar
shortage limited the quantity of U.S. leaf
the co, was able to buy at rising prices,
and the Australian crop, which accounts
for only a small fraction of total require-
ments, was lighter because of diseases
in the field. Official statistics show that
Australian production of tobacco and
cigarettes dropped by nearly 4 p.c. for
the year to June 30, 1948. At the same
time the shorter working week, scarcity
of coal and wage increases further
bumped up operating exes.
There was no slackening of demand, to
meet which the Government authorised
importation of tobacco and cigarettes
from England and elsewhere. These im-
ported articles were themselves mostly
made from leaf bought from the dollar
area, and they retailed at higher prices
than locally-made products. The co.
contends that, since there is therefore
little or no saving to the Empire dollar
pool, its own authorised dollar purchases
could be increased with benefit to local
employment and consumers.
Large quantities of well-known
brands of cigarettes were imported
by the subsidiaries from the big
English B.T. Co., which for dollar
and other reasons discontinued shipments
to Australia toward the end of 1948.
Efforts to get leaf from Rhodesia afforded
no relief, because the Government, in its
wisdom, deducted such supplies from the
co.’s dollar quota. Until the dollar posi-
tion improves, it is difficult to say when
local output (now more than 30 p.c.
above the 1939 level) is likely to catch
up with demand, which has been stimu-
lated by boom conditions. However, the
Government’s policy of full employment
and immigration augurs well for future
consumption.
After deducting the equity of outside
shareholders and allowing £119,581 (up
£20,254) for depreciation and an unstated
amount for taxation, net earnings of the
group stepped up £4921, reaching
£956;324. That covered the pref. div.
and a wink over 9 p.c. on the £9,371,933
of ord. capital compared with 8.9, 9, 8.9,
9, 7.5 and 9.3 p.c. back to 1942. The
div. was kept at 9 p.c. for the eighth year
in succession, leaving only £1662 for
general reserves (£1,489,768), which are
subject to £3,969,660 of intangibles. In
addition there is a reserve of £2,809*659
against property and plant, which appear
at cost. Whether the year’s result was
any better or worse than stated depends
largely upon what amount, if any, was
spent on plant, etc., and charged against
earnings and upon the net figures at
which stock and debtors’ balances were
taken into account.
Here are consolidated balance-sheet
figures:
Consolidated Figures,
1939. 1947. 1948.
Paid capital .. £9,619,186 £11,082,621 £11,082,521
Outside shares* 18,854 90,345 90,245
Deprec. reserve 1,986,480 2,714,083 2,809,659
Creditors! .. 621,631 4,105,203 4,599,498
Freeholds .. 1,138,241 1,410,472 1,482,572
Plant, etc. .. 1,470,620 1,940,696 2,123,884
Stock .. ..' 6,625,660 10,700,474 11,138,437
Debtors .. 1,246,264 1,541,958 1,294,241
Shares other cos. 347 101 101
Cash, etc. .. 434,133 9,930 156,515
Goodwill, etc. 2,693,293 3,969,610 3,969,660
* Includes proportion of reserves,
f Includes tax provision.
To add £437,963 to the book-value of
stocks, £72,100 to freeholds, £183,188 to
plant and reduce the amount coming to
trade creditors, etc., by £1,472,741, the
co. went to its bankers for an extra
£1,967,036 and reduced debtors’ balances
by £247,717.
Since much of the present price of
leaf and level of costs generally is ex-
pected to be permanent, and since out-
put is to be increased when more leaf
becomes available, it has been decided to
introduce more working capital and re-
duce the overdraft. At an early date
those on the ord. register are to be offered
1,336,665 new £1 ords., one for seven,
at a premium of 100 p.c. That will lift
paid capital to £12,419,186 in 1,710,588
p.c. cum. prefs., 10,089,861 ords. and
618,737 B ords.—the latter, issued in
connection with purchase of the Carreras
business, rank equally with the ords. for
divs. and in any surplus after repayment
of pref. and ord. capital. The pref. div.
and 9 p.c. to the ords. will then call for
£1,074,961, or £118,637 more profit than
was claimed last term. Still, the new
capital and share premiums combined will
need to turn in only a shade under 4\ p.c.
to cover 9 p.c. on the new capital alone.
Over the last 12 months or so the
market for the ords. eased from 545. 3d.
to 495. 6d, At the last-mentioned figure
the net price, after exercising the rights, is
48s. Bd., at which the return is 3.7 p.c. on
a 9 p.c. div. basis. The prefs. at 365.
yield 3.7 p.c. Including the new issue
but not property and plant reserve, net
tangible cover is £6 11s. lOd. prefs. and
17s. lOd. ords.
Australian Gas Light ‘Co. (Sydney)
Dividends To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. (AllShar.es). serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1939.. 232,325 6 p.c. = 287,629 ■— 1,776
1940.. 218,774 4* „ „ 218,700 74 1,850
1941.. 202,100 4 „ „ 194,400 7,700 9,550
1942.. 195,970 4 „ „ 194,400 1,570 11,120
1943.. 224,323 44 „ „ 218,700 . 5,623 16,743
1944.. 297,537 5i „ „ 230,850 66,687 83,430
1945.. 338,872 6 „ „ 291,600 47,272 130,702
1946.. 323,302 6 „ „ 291,600 31,702 138,104
From tax provision, etc., £38,903.. 177,007
1947.. 250,999 6 p.c. = 291,600 136,406
1948.. 144,174 5 „ „ 243,000 37,580
Last accounts of this big and well-
handled public-utility undertaking—fifth
largest of its kind in the Empire—pro-
vide a clear illustration of how socialist
Government, given the necessary powers,
can, and will, damage the interests of
risk capital of private enterprise. The
collapse of earnings last term (they were
the lowest for 30 years) was the result
of delay first by the Federal and then by
the State Governments, or their instru-
mentalities, to authorise obviously-needed
increases in the selling price of gas to
offset, or help offset, the rapid advance
of costs —the same Governments to
which delay was anathema when it was
decided to raise members’ salaries and
grant them pensions.
Last increase in the selling-price of gas
was in February, 1948. It was granted
by Federal price authorities to cover in-
creased costs to that date. Since then
recurrent lifts in prices for coal, oil, other
materials and labor, etc., have far out-
stripped the gains from expanding sales.
On Jan. 18 last the co. informed the
Premier that additional revenue amount-
ing to about £500,000 p.a. was needed to
cover the increase in costs during the pre-
ceding 11 months. Further rises in wage-
rates and the price of coal have since
added another £40,000 p.a. to outgoings.
To date the co.’s unremitting appeals
to the Government and price-fixing
authorities to make an appropriate lift
in the selling-price of gas have met with
nothing better than damaging delay and,
on occasions, a needless display of bad
manners, despite the irrefutable strength
of its case —the majority report of a
board of inquiiy (headed by the N.S.W.
Auditor-General) recommended a 15 p.c.
increase in the selling-price of gas last
November. On January 20 the co.
was losing money at the rate of about
£3OOO . a week, without making any pro-
vision for dividends.
Officially the position is that Cabinet
has now referred certain aspects of the
co.’s affairs relating to prices, discounts,
manufacture of gas, advertising and
special-purposes account to a royal
commission whose terms of reference
have been extended for the purpose. This
commission was set up by the Govern-
ment last June to inquire generally into
the co.’s affairs as a sop to employees
following an illegal strike. It completed
its original inquiries in December, when
it adjourned to prepare its report, of
which the public, which pays the bill, has
yet heard nothing. Sooner or later the
co. must either pay its way or be sub-
sidised, and the sooner the Government
gives up playing official shuttlecock with
the co.’s claims the better for everybody.
The N. S. Wales Gas and Electricity
Act, 1935-46, fixes the standard rate of
div. at 6 p.c. on ord, capital—same as the
1932 Act; previously the. rate had been
8' p.c. It also provides for fixing the sell-
ing-price of gas at a figure that will
enable the 6 p.c. div, to be paid, after
meeting all legitimate exes., including in-
terest on loan funds, and charging an
amount equal to 3 p.c. on average net
book-value of buildings and plant for de-
preciation and } p.c, of share and loan
capital combined (including share
premiums) for special .purposes. At
December 31 the special - purposes
account stood at £197,685 (down £37,801),
or 45 p.c. of the maximum amount per-
mitted under the Act.
Under war conditions and at the re-
quest of the Federal Government the
div. dropped to 4 p.c., but rose to 6 p.c.
again for the three years to end 1947.
Last term 5 p.c. was paid, but reserves
had to be tapped for £98,826 to do it,
reducing them to £37,580. The last-
mentioned amount excludes premium-
capital reserve of £299,340 and the
special-purposes account already referred
to, neither of which is available for pay-
ment of divs. The £144,174 (down
£106,825) of profit was only 2.9 p.c. on
capital as against 5.1, 6.6 and 6.9 p.c.
for the three preceding years. What div.,
if any, will be paid for the current year
depends upon when and to what extent
the co. is authorised to lift the selling
price of gas.
If the N. S. Wales Government thinks
6 p.c. too fyigh a div. under existing
conditions, then the obvious and straight-
forward thing to do is amend the Act
accordingly; it had the opportunity to
do so as recently as 1946. Incidentally,
6 p.c, is worth only 5.6 p.c. on
money put up by the co.’s share-
holders (capital and share premiums
combined). The Queensland Govern-
ment considers 2 p.c. above the return
from long-dated Government securities
(now 3 i p.c.) a fair div. for electric-
supply undertakings in that State to pay.
Technically the co. is abreast of world
developments in the industry, and is fol-
lowing a programme of orderly-develop-
ment and expansion. Last year 7186
new consumers, making the total 318,813,
were connected to the co.’s 5454 miles
of mains and service piping. Gas sales
(1761 million units) increased by 2.1
p.c., but costs won the race, as the
following analysis of revenue and ex-
penditure figures shows:
< 1947* \ r- 1948 \
Per 1000 Per 1000
Units. Units.
£ s. d. £ s. d.
Gas .. ..3,075,783 35 8 3,445,252 39 1
Residuals .. 273,101 3 2 348,850 311
Meter rents,
etc. .. 51,153 7 36,399 6
Total £3,400,037 39 5 £3,830,501 43 6
Manufac. and
dis. exes., .2,249,320 26 1 2,787,963 31 8
Other
charges .. 447,079 5 2 507,917 5 9
Interest ~ 121,455 1 5 139,298 1 7
Depreciation,
etc. .. 292,275 3 41 251,149 210
Total
outgo £3,110,135 30 (U £8,686,327 41 10
* Figures include £38*903 of adjustments interlined
in introductory table.
The steep rise in manufacturing and dis-
tributing costs was due to lifts in wages
and the price of coal and oil. The allow-,
ance for depreciation was £251,149,
approx. 3 p.c. of net cost of buildings and
plant. Expenditure on renewals was
£96,815 (up £12,772), and discounts
amounted to £270,093 (up £42,204).
In front of the £4,860,000 of share
capital is £3,412,000 (up £600,000) of
debenture money, costing on the average
3.6 p.c., £235,222 of temporary loans,
£219,544 of customers’ deposits and
£503,007 coming to sundry creditors.
Stock, debtors, cash, etc., total £1,402,246.
Freehold figures at £176,010 and build-
ings, plant, etc., £8,307,622.
The £6-paid shares, which sold at
£6 13s. a couple of months ago, fetched
only £6 Is. 6d. last week.
Westcott Hazell & Co., Ltd.
(-* Dividends
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. Reserves.
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
1941 .. 10,695 7 10 9,037 16,268
1942 .. 17,266 7 10 9,037 24,497
1943 . . 20,178 7 10 9,037 35,638
1944 . . 10,561 7 10 9,037 37,162
Unexplained addition, £27,200 .. 64,362
1945 .. 11,205 7 35 25,505 50,062
1946 .. 44,644 7 IQ 9,037 85,669
To tax arrears, £47,669 .. .. 38,000
1947 . . 54,186 7 10 9,037 83,099
Profit, sale of assets, £1742 .. 84,841
1948 .. 44,380 7 60t 43,895 85,326
Ordinary divs. have been tax-free since 1943.
t Ten per cent, paid in cash, 50 p.c. in ord. scrip.
Opposition was voiced by some Westcott
Hazell pref. shareholders when the
board gave notice in January that it
wanted power to issue new pref. capital
ranking pari passu with the present 7 p.c.
cumulative scrip; and at the special meet-
ing this month directors withdrew
their proposal, although they held
enough proxies to ensure its passage.
“Since January the position has
changed,” chairman E. J. Hazell said,
“and it is not now intended to make any
immediate issue of any pref. shares.”
Whether the “changed position” is to
be interpreted as meaning that the
need for working capital has eased
rather suddenly, or rather that other
financial arrangements are being made,
isn’t clear from the chairman’s re-
marks. Westcott Hazell had already
lifted its ordinary capital by £32,936
last term, but that was a bonus
hand-out (one for two) from 1947-48
profits and didn’t relieve the liquid posi-
tion. The strain on finances caused by
last year’s increases in stocks (£70,824)
and debtors (£55,8.96) had been met with
the help of £107,250 additional liabilities,
including £48,033 new overdrafts:
Paid capital— 1939. 1946. 1947. 4948.
Preference .. £'35,000 £35,000 £35,000 £30,000
Ordinary .. 65,872 65,872 65,872 98,808
Mortgages .. 22,000 20,000 83,400 27,000
Overdraft . . 52,537 28,724 34,831 82,864
Creditors .. 72,556 21,483 38,291 62,239
ss ,„ 3
Freeholds .. 48,321 66,192 67.617 62.5,0
Plant 14,304 10,083 13,916 26,803
Stocks 90,294 109,337 119,171 189, 990
Debtors .. 98,752 98,400 114,902 l<o,i 98
Cash, etc. . . 16,452 2,839 _ 3,087 3,340
On these figures the existing prefs. are
covered more than six times over
net tangible assets. Their annual div
requirement of £2450 has been easily me
in recent years.
One of Sydney’s oldest dealers m motor
spares and accessories, Westcott Hazell
became known to the general investing
public in respect of its pref. shares onl>
in 1937; the ords. were first quoted


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1878
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
C. 0. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN 0. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
The following is for public information only and does not comply with the require-
ments of the Companies Act 1936 relating to the publication of a Prospectus offering
shares for public subscription. Persons interested in the flotation may obtain a copy
from a member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
This advertisement is not an invitation offering shares to the public for subscrip-
tion, which will be offered only on the footing of the Prospectus.
Western Steel Enterprises Limited
(a Company Incorporated under the provisions of the Western Australian
Companies Act 1943-1947 on 19th October, 1948).
NOTICE RELATING TO PROSPECTUS OF AN ISSUE OP
1,200,000 Shares of 5/- each (£300,000)
Authorised Capital £2,500,000
Divided into 10,000,000 Shares of 5/- each
190.000 Shares have been applied for by the Government of Western £25,000
Australia at 5/- per Share, payable on the same terms
and conditions as the Shares to be offered to the Public.
100.000 Shares have been applied for by R. S. Conrow and/or his 25,000
nominees at 5/- per Share, payable as to 1/- per Share with
application and four calls each of 1/- per Share payable on
Ist'July, 1950, 1951, 1952, 1953.
1,200,000 Shares will be offered for Public Subscription at 5/- per 300,000
Share upon the basis that 2/6 per Share will be payable with
application, and the balance of 2/6 per Share will* be payable
on 15th November, 1949.
Shares are held in reserve for future issue.
MINIMUM SUBSCRIPTION.
The minimum amount which in the opinion of the Directors must be raised by this
issue of Ordinary Shares is £350,000, of which £250,000 is required to meet the
purchase of property purchased or to be purchased; £19,250 is required to meet
preliminary expenses payable by the Company and Commission or brokerage; £750
is required in repayment of moneys borrowed in respect of the foregoing matters,
and £BO,OOO is required for working capital.
DIRECTORS.
The Hon. ERIC SYDNEY SPOONER, Chairman, Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street,
Sydney, Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
ROBERT SMOCK CONROW, Managing Director, Kembla Building, Margaret
Street, Sydney, Engineer and Company Executive.
QUINTON RANDOLPH STOW, 21 Howard Street, Perth, Solicitor.
A fourth Director will be nominated by the Western Australian Government, and
will be an officer of the Treasury.
Further appointments to the Board have been deferred until completion of
investigations mentioned later.
ALTERNATE DIRECTORS.
During the absence of the Chairman and/or Managing Director the following
will act as alternate Directors.
OLIVER VINCENT, McLean Bros. & Rigg Limited, Perth, Company Director.
CHARLES ROBERT SUNNING, Bunning Bros. Pty. Limited, West Perth,
Engineer and Company Director.
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE.
A. J. ETHELL, F.C.A. (Aust.), Rankin Morrison & Co., Chartered Accountants
(Aust.), 55 St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
BANKERS,
Bank of New South Wales, Perth.
AUDITORS.
PATON & MORRIS, Chartered Accountants (Aust.), Pastoral House, St. George’s
Terrace, Perth.
SOLICITORS.
PARKER & PARKER, Solicitors, 21 Howard Street, Perth.
CONSULTING ACCOUNTANT'S FOB THE ISSUE.
HUNGERFORD, SPOONER & CO., Chartered Accountants (Aust.), Dalton House,
115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
PATON & MORRIS, Chartered Accountants (Aust.), Pastoral House, St. George’s
Terrace, Perth.
SELLING BROKERS.
For the issue to the Public of 1,200,000 Shares.
C. B. QUINAN & COX, Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
LINDSAY MILDRED & CO., 56 Queen Street, Melbourne.
J. E. MARTIN & CO., 379 Collins Street, Melbourne.
LAIDLAW & CO., Old Exchange, Pirie Street, Adelaide.
HOGE, TAYLOR & HOGE, 324-330 Queen Street, Brisbane.
T. A. JAMES & CO., 104 St. George’s Terrace. Perth.
H. W. BAYLEY & CO., Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
Upon allotment of such Shares the Company will pay brokerage of 2}d. per share
in respect of applications that bear the rubber stamp of any member of a recognised
Stock Exchange.
COMPANY’S OBJECTIVES.
The primary object for which the Company is established is the establishment of
a comprehensive Iron and Steel Industry in Western Australia. The Company has
entered into an agreement dated 9th February, 1949, with the Government of Western
Australia under which it is entitled to receive leases of iron ore deposits at Koolan
Island, Yampi Sound, and leases of coal deposits at Collie, W.A.
The Company’s subsidiary, Western Rolling Mills Pty. Ltd., will proceed at an
early date with the erection of factories and equipment at Maddington, near Perth,
for steel-making from pig iron and scrap steel. The operations will include the
rolling of light sections, flats for the manufacture of pressed steel buildings, pressed
sections for housing and other constructional works while some proportion of the
production will be available for forged steel products. The project will be independent
at this stage but will become complementary to the major Iron and Steel Industry
upon its establishment. The Company will capitalise this subsidiary to the extent
of £250,000.
While the Maddington Industry is in course of construction and development the
Directors will bring to Australia experts to investigate and report upon the most
efficient method of working the Yampi Sound iron ore deposits and the Collie coal
deposits, the modem layout of steelworks, the use of coal or alternative fuels and
other matters necessary to the establishment of a comprehensive Iron and Steel
Industry in Western Australia. Upon receipt of the reports of such experts, and the
preparation of estimates, the Directors intend to issue a further Prospectus inviting
subscription of Capital for the requirements of the major Industry.
The Company will advance up to £40,000 to a second subsidiary, Westeel Pty.
Ltd., and up to £lO,OOO to a third subsidiary, W.A. Coal Mines Pty. Ltd., for the
cost of investigations explained in the preceding paragraph.
GENERAL.
Eric Sydney Spooner, Robert Smock Conrow and Quinton Randolph Stow have
each applied or subscribed for 2000 Shares (being their qualification) in terms of
the Articles of Association.
Copies of the full Prospectus may be obtained from the registered office of the
Company, the selling brokers, or any member of the Stock Exchanges of Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
This is a notice of the Prospectus only, and a copy of the Prospectus dated 28th
February, 1949, has been filed with the Registrar of Companies of Western Australia
as required by Section 46 of the Companies Act 1943-1947 of that State. Copies
of the Prospectus have also been filed with the Registrar-General or Registrar of
Companies in each of the other Australian States.
1.400.000
8.600.000
10,000,000
£350,000
2,150,000
£2,500,000
DAVIES & COLLI SON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —Advt.
Missing Friends.
TO STANLEY THEODORE QUIN for-
merly of 86 Rowlett Street Melbourne in
the State of Victoria—TAKE NOTICE
that your wife ADNE QUIN has instituted
proceedings against you for divorce on
the ground of desertion for three years
and upwards Unless you enter an appear-
ance in the Prothonotary’s Office of the
Supreme Court at Melbourne in the State
of Victoria on or before the 6th day of
April 1949 and file your answer on or
before the 20th day of April 1949 the
case may proceed in your absence. —J. W.
SACKVILLE, of 379 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, in the State of Victoria, Solicitor
for the abovenamed Petitioner.
WILL CUTHBERT LAURENCE CASEY,
once residing in Lawson Street, Brookvale,
in or about the year 1937, or any rela-
tive or friend, communicate with the
undersigned, possibly to his advantage.
—HOLDSWORTH, SUMMERS & GAR-
LAND, Solicitors, 33-39 Hunter Street,
Sydney.
Your money Is spread over shares In
20 of Australia’s foremost companies
when yen invest in sub-units of
illllllillllllllllillllllllllllllfllllliiliilllllillllllliillllililllllilllllllilllllllillilllllillllllllililll|
i FIRST SECURITY t~
I UNIT TRUST I
Sponsored by
Security Units Pty. Limited
28 Grosvenor St., Sydney
Telephone 8W1955
UNDER THE MANAGEMENT of Mr. HUGH WALTON. | —
S who introduced the Unit Trust method of investment to EE
Australia in 1936. EE
PiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiM
In one simple operation First Security Unit Trusty affords you an
opportunity of securing a proportionate holding in the following
shares:-
150 The North Shore Gas Co. Ltd.
50 Th'e Adelaide Steamship Co. Ltd.
50 Anthony Hordern & Sons Ltd.
50—The Australasian Paper & Pulp Co. Ltd.
50 Australian Consolidated Industries Ltd.
100 Australian Guarantee Corporation Ltd.
50 Bradford Cotton Mills Ltd.
50 The Broken Hill Pty. Co. Ltd.
s—The Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd.
50 —Drug Houses of Australia Ltd.
100 Dunlop Rubber Australia Ltd.
50 Electricity Meter & Allied Industries Ltd.
50 Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australasia Ltd.
50 Felt & Textiles of Australia Ltd.
100 General Industries Ltd.
50 Goldsbrough Mort & Co. Ltd.
50 Henry Jones Co-operative Ltd.
50 Howard Smith Ltd.
50 Newbold General Refractories Ltd.
100 Broken Hill South *
A These Shares, called THE UNIT, are lodged for safe custody with
GENERAL ACCIDENT FIRE & LIFE ASSURANCE
CORPORATION LTD., 105 Pitt St., Sydney
(whose Assets exceed £30,000,000 Steeling )
who hold them IN TRUST on behalf of Investors as Custodian Trustees.
This Unit Is divided into 3,000 SUB-UNITS, of which the public can buy
any multiple of 10—subject to a minimum initial purchase of 20. Thus an
interest in all these shares is secured, although the amount invested may be
quite small. Sub-Units cost around 81/- each and share proportionately
in all income rqpeived from the Unit by the Custodian Trustees. Sub-Units
are readily convertible into cash at any time. Write for particulars to-day
to any stockbroker, or direct to . . .
SECURITY UNITS PTY. LTD.
28 Grosvenor St., Sydney. BW 1955
Note: The above Unit Trust has no connection whatsoever with
First Australian Unit Trust, Selected Securities Unit Trust
or any other Unit Trust.
7
£
■M*
3s
Ml
INSULATE
your home
AGAINST EXCESSIVE HEAT OR COLD
WHEN YOU BUILD WITH
8.1. SLAGWOOL
WISE home planners
everywhere are
specifying B. I. SLAG-
WOOL insulation because
they not only get better
results, but they save
money too.
With B. I. Slagwool Insulation
you lower the temperature of
your home as much as 15° in
hot weather . . . and you will
enjoy warmer, healthier winters
too!
&L GRANULATED
SLAGWOOL
MS.
r
B
cwu£i
SLA
Insulation
’Phones: Sydney M 3038, Melbourne MU 3506,
Brisbane B 3604, Adelaide C 7257, Perth B 5027
BIG-15
FREE
Interesting
Booklet:
Full details of
FIRST SECURITY
UNIT TRUST
are set out in a
Brochure which will
be sent free and post
free without any obli-
gation whatsoever.
Discuss it with your
Investment Adviser
. . . he will confirm
the merits of this
investment. 4
Call, write or
phone for par-
ticulars of B. I.
Slagwool Insu-
lation before
you build I
officially in Sydney nine months
ago. It deals in a wide range
of car and motor-cycle parts
radios, batteries and electrical
items. The former sales divi-
sion for steels and engineering
supplies was formed into a sepa-
rate co. 10 years ago and has
grown very rapidly, its present
capital being larger than the
parent’s War conditions in-
duced Westcott Hazell to begin
manufacturing on its own
account, and a new factory at
Kogarah (Sydney) has recently
been taken over for the purpose.
Last year’s turnover was an
all-time record, but a £9756 drop
in net profit resulted partly from
rising expenses, partly from
heavier incidence of the “divi-
sion 7” income tax on private
cos., to which Westcott Hazell
has hitherto been liable:
Taxable profit£6 fvl.ilo
Less tax .. 19,400 24,000 27,750
Net _ profit •• 44,644 36 44,380
P taxes were £3750 greater
than m 1947, although earnings
were £6006 less. A sum not
oxcerfmg f3OOO hasi still to be
paid from reserves for dmston 7
a^ e £1 ords havc teen fairly
s[eady around 49Si sjnce their
flrst -change quotation in June,
yield at that figure is 4 p.c. on
alO p>c div , basis, a nd the
shares have net cover of 37s> sd .
according to the books. The
pre f s . a t 325. 6d. yield 4.3 p.c.
New Guinea Goldfields, Ltd.
Because development and pro-
duction are behind schedule,
owing to shortage of native labor
and delay of the Administration
in getting the Edie Creek road
into a trafficable condition, and
because rising costs have
put some former payable areas
on the doubtful list, the board
decided to defer making a dis-
tribution to shareholders. The
co.’s claim for war damage was
settled at £411,724 (98.3 p.c. of
total amount claimed), of which
£177,636 had already been taken
into account as “claims out-
standing.” The balance went
mainly into cash (£255,280, up
£214,082), plant, etc. (£146,503,
up £65,653) and stores (£65,194,
up £10,854). At Sept. 30 last
cash, Government securities and
debtors’ balances (together
£345,597) exceeded the outside
debt (£14,195) by £331,402,
approx. Is, sd. a share. Paid
capital is £950,371 in f.-p. 4s. 3d.
shares.
Co. also received £41,464 in-
terest on deferred payments, en-
abling it to show a profit of
£43,864.
What the future holds for the
co. on the mining side depends
largely upon what re-examina-
tion of its claims reveals. There
is some 559,500 c.y. of alluvial,
averaging from 4s. to ss. a yard,
mostly on the Bulolo and Edie
Creek. The Koranga alluvials
are estimated at 7,724,000 c.y.,
averaging Is. a yard. Until the
extent and value of the ore-body
at Upper Ridges and Anderson’s
Creek are proved by the new
adit now being driven, resump-
tion of operations there is doubt-
ful. Last recorded estimates of
ore were 69,000 tons positive and
24,000 tons possible, grade not
stated.
A new seam of manganese ore
on Namie Creek, assaying about
Ijoz. gold per ton, is being in-
vestigated, Much will depend
upon how this prospect, and
the ground between Golden
Peaks and Koranga Creek,
which is also being tested,
turn out. The co.’s scrip re-
cently changed hands at 2s. 2d.
Austral New Zealand Mining,
Ltd., one of the Austral Malay
group, which is dredging auri-
ferous river gravels on the
Clutha (N.Z.), made a better
showing last year. But the drop
in the price of gold following ad-
justment of the N.Z.-Sterling
exchange rate, low recovery,
short life of the property and
debt to the parent make the out-
look for shareholders anything
but bright. For year to end
Sept., 1948, 3,171,000 c.y. were
handled for 9474. loz. gold, an
average of 1.43 gr. a yard, or
38.9 p.c. of bore values. The
profit was £23,445 (up £19,590),
thanks mainly to lower working
costs (3.86 d. a yard as against
5.35 d. for previous term) owing
to reduced expenditure on re-
newals, etc. No allowance was
made for depreciation or amor-
tisation. When the books closed
the debt to the parent stood, at
£47,610 (down £11,636). There
was £1896 coming to sundry
creditors, and debtors, bullion
and cash totalled £17,551. Gold-
producers in N.Z. now receive
only £8 Bs. 6d. an ounce for the
metal. So, despite abolition of
the 12s. 6d.-an-ounce tax, they
are still 28s. an ounce worse off
than formerly, with no reduction
worth mentioning in the cost of
stores, etc. On the basis of last
year’s figures, this means a drop
of £13,265 in mine revenue. The
f.-p. pound shares recently
fetched 3s. in the market.


ABORIGINALITIES
“S.E.”: Norm waved a greeting to the
mailman as he turned into the side road
and settled down for the long ride to old
Bill’s farm. Time drifted, the sun
was warm, and Norm was dozing
lazily when a movement on the
hillside caught his eye. Presently
he made out old Bill’s regular
hand, loaded down with bluey
and trappings, short-cutting in the
general direction of town. Then
he struck the outskirts of Bill’s
place and spotted the town tractor
pulling out, with the new dam
barely started. Norm’s eyes nar-
rowed shrewdly, and he cast
around for further sign. It came
with a scurry of hoofbeats, and he
turned to gaze after the wild-eyed
hack as it streaked fer parts un-
known. A couple of Bill’s grey-
hounds hunted themselves a feed
in a gully, and a moving patch on
the ridge showed his old sheep-dog
leaving discreetly on a visit to a
neighboring farm. The only life that
showed from Bill’s broken front-gate was
a tabby cat on the gable and an ancient
goat behind the garden fence. Norm
became aware of savage noises emanating
from the dairy, and witnessed the bucket
that flew through the doorway towards
the goat. Leaving the animal to the result
of its own foolhardiness. Norm turned
back hastily for town. Two hours later
he entered the bar and spotted the mail-
man. “Gripes, y’ could’ve saved me a
trip out to old Bill’s,” he greeted. “Why
didn’t you tell me he’d just got his
income-tax assessment ? ”
* * * *
“Mallem”: “Curry or corned beef?”
asked the waitress. A glance at my
neighbor’s plate revealed a watery stew,
pale-brown, with the faintest suggestioh
of the odors of the East —just sufficient
to waft me to Chandni Chowk. It was
there, the great bazaar that is the heart
of Old Delhi, that I first reeled under
the impact of the fumes from the shops
which sell the ingredients of the national
dish, and from which each may mix to
his own taste. There is no such thing
as a standard curry; its basic contents
are pepper, ginger, tumeric and chillies,
and not only are these used in a great
variety of proportions but there are
scores of roots, nuts and seeds that can
be added to give further subtle variations
of flavor. In a good Indian dinner you
may find that one meat dish is a rich
brown, another a deep orange, while the
onions are dark green; yet each by itself
is capable of sending the perspiration
trickling down your nose within a few
seconds of consumption, and if the lot
doesn’t make even a hardened addict
hiccup there’s something wrong. As a
foundation for the fiery feast there has
been soup and a pile of chapatties:
heavy, thick, unleavened pancakes fried
in ghee, dripping hot oil yet not at all a
drag on the turbines ; while with the curry
itself are papas—pronounced pahpas—
delightfully crisp wafers of dahl, or pea-
flour, seasoned with chilli and so thin that
in the frying they crinkle up like crumpled
paper. Wonderful experiences these
meals, yet for all their wonder you could
not get there a slab of plain corned beef,
as we know it. Seems you must go to
where each is grown to have it at its
best. “Curry or corned beef?” she re-
peated. I took the beef,
♦ * * •
“Nakhoda”: The recent disappearance
of the island of Fonua Fo’ou, in the
Tongas—its umpteenth exit since H.M.S.
Falcon first sighted it in 1877 —tends to
confirm the late MacMillan Brown’s
startling theory about the mysterious
statues on Easter Island. The
Maoriland professor contended that
the busts, which he regarded as
portraits, and which are certainly
as much like individual human beings
as some modernist paintings, would
have required the labors of at least 10,000
slaves to be quarried, transported, carved
and erected on immense stone platforms
miles from the quarries, although the
island itself is 1000 miles from any other
land mass, and could never have sup-
ported more than a few hundred people.
They must have been extraordinarily
obsessed with sculpture and architecture
to do it, and he visualised a large con-
tinent ruled by a master-race such as
those who spread monolithic sculpture
from Egypt to the Marshall Islands in
prehistoric times. This master-race used
Easter Island as its aristocratic burial-
ground until their own land sank beneath
“Smile, please!"
the waves in some vast Pacific subsidence,
The faces all look proud, cruel and
haughty, and not a bit negroid. He found
some evidence for his theory in the
journals of early Portuguese, Spanish and
Dutch voyagers, who reported in those
latitudes hearing breakers and seeing long
rows of lights that might have been towns
on an extensive coastline. The lumbering
galleons of those days couldn’t haul their
wind, and when they saw or suspected
and ma de off as quickly as they were
ab le. A Maonland naval vessel got
soundings of nine fathpms where Fonua
To ou ought to be, plus a strong smell or
sulphur. * * *
“Solitude”: “Have t’ get a new towel
, h re ‘ arked seventy,
fiyer enou^h c , (his . n left fr a
man ~ d . isseU 0 * ... .. where are you
going to it? „ l chipped jn .. Store . s
none, and I tried several places down-
J ount last tri a „ d had n 0 luck .. xhe
old bloke shook kis head sadl .. s> se
chaff . bag . U be betler'n nothin’.” He
fl d0 * t 0 the step> puUed out his
pjp ej an( j his gaze roved dreamily to the
horizon. “Shops full o’ everythin’ a man
wan t Sj ” he drawled presently. “Blokes
that’s glad t’ serve y’. Towels a bob each,
rea j p an ts with a year’s wear, four ’n’ six,
an ’ S ocks a zack. Houses for everybody,
n 0 shortages o’ tucker, no queues, no
strikes or permits, an’ no income-tax.”
“What are you dreaming about?” I in-
terrupted. “Heaven?” “No,” he replied
absently. “Just rememberin’ things like
they used t’ be. Folks was a damn sight
happier in them days,” he resumed,
“Kids played like kids, an’ the young’ns
got more kick out’ve a Sat’dee-night hop
than they do now slippin’ round them
plate-glass palaces.” “Don’t forget they
had to work harder.” “Yair,” he decided,
“Yair, they did ; an’ they was healthier.
Weren’t half the sickness then, Y’ c’d
always get a man t’ do a job, yet there
weren’t nobody out o’ work much, as I
remember.” His glance caught on the
ragged remains of the towel, and went on
to rest on an empty chaff-bag in the
corner. “No, Sol,” he sighed regretfully.
“If y’ ask me, progress is the ruination of
any country.”
* * * *
“Hanko”: Old Fritz wasn’t at ease,
for all the roominess of his armchair.
He puffed furiously at his meerschaum
and just as furiously glared at the table,
from which I guessed he was irritated
because his daughter hadn’t cleared away
the supper things and washed-up. Pre-
sently in she waddled from her room, a
stout, moon-faced young woman arrayed
in a blue dress and crowned with a pink
hat trimmed and garnished with green
feathers and yellow daisies. “Bonder
und biitzen,” Fritz gasped. “Vot’s all
der preddies at, lofe?” “The Bachelors’
Ball next Sat’dee night,” said Emma.
She pirouetted before the blurry mirror
over the sink. “I may be the” A
worried frown creased her brow. “Do
they have belles at a Bachelor Ball,
father?” “Ach, nein. Yoost viddles
und gonserdeeners, yet,” said Fritz.
* * * *
“Muskeen”: The art of camouflage is
by no means confined to quietly-covered
birds (B. 23/2/’49). The budgerigar
cannot be detected amongst gum-trees,
in which he takes refuge during the heat
of the day. The swift lorikeet’s plumage
is made up of hues such as red, yellow,
blue, yellow-green, and brown, but all
these are blended in such a way that
the bird can feed among gum-trees with-
in a few feet of passers-by, and can be
detected only by the trembling of leaves
and a scratching sound made by its feet
and beak. Honey, to these little birds, is
as beer is to a wharfie, and if one is shot
while feeding and held up by its feet,
a dessertspoonful of it will discharge from
its beak.
* * * *
“Mulga Jim”: An anthropologist was
giving me a learned dissertation on abo.
names; explaining how abos were prone
to double the syllables; with some ex-
amples given. Among the many was
“Ela-Elap,” shown on the map, I was
grateful for this erudite explanation,
knowing our primitive forebears did
not use fountain-pens and the phon-
etic was thus transcribed to our
language as the best on offer.
However, cogitating later on this black-
fellow what-um-name “waterhole” I
rather thought breweries must have been
legion in dotting the skyline in the days
of the primitive peoples—after putting
the name in reverse-gear. My faith in
anthropology has waned a little, for
my informant was a most serious chap,
not given to flippancies.
* * * ♦
“B. A. Ker”: I’d like to take a certain
American professor by the ear and lead
him gently to a crop-paddock that the
cockatoos have found. He would be able
to observe the sentries posted and mark
the prompt response by the flock when
the alarm is screeched. Next I’d take him
to a large aviary I know, point out that
a partition prevents the nesting budgeri-
gars from seeing what goes on in the
flight, then throw a handful of seeding-
grass to the birds without domestic ties.
The chirruping always associated with
budgies will become louder but not notice-
ably different in tone ; nevertheless every
hen will be out of her nest and in the
thick of the feast within ten seconds.
If we are lucky we might see a flock of
starlings “sandwiched” between two
hawks. The big bird drifting above and
its mate cruising below will be trying to
stampede the bunch into a frantic scatter,
but, although panic may be obviously
close, the tight formation will be kept
faultlessly through swift, unexpected
bursts of speed and sudden about-turns.
Abruptly, as though at a word of com-
mand, the flock will halve, one half
wheeling in one direction and the other
racing directly opposite. But not one
bird will straggle or hesitate about which
group to follow. If the manoeuvre is suc-
cessful the hawks will follow different
groups—and lose their prey. If not, the
ruse will be repeated again and again
until the last small group escapes or the
big birds crowd in for the kill. But
always that breakaway will be accom-
plished with the precision of crack troops
obeying a command. Then we could get
around to animals —but by this time the
prof, should be beginning to doubt
whether his “discovery” was really ori-
ginal enough to rank as international
news.
* * * ♦
“Logger”: The weather-beaten old
cove who’d been hauling logs around the
district for almost half a century arrived
at the sawmill —alone. The manager,
curious, asked him why his son wasn’t
still helping him. “Aw,” replied the old
hauler. “He’s too soft for this job now.
It was the Army changed him. The last
trip up here finished me. Y’ know, we
was on’y two days on the track when he
pulled out a blasted comb and combed
his hair! ”
* * * *
“X.S.”: A discovery that may save port
authorities millions of pounds has been
made by C.S.I.R. It has been busy ex-
amining every known specimen of timber
from all countries and has found 500 con-
taining particles of silica, which the
marine-borer doesn’t like. Australian tur-
pentine, the most popular wharf-timber
today, doesn’t contain as much as some
of these types. Natives of the South Sea
islands came to the same conclusions as
the C.S.I.R. hundreds of years ago when
they made their boats from the timber of
trees which subscribe to the prescription.
* * * *
“Yarramongup”: Add to that story of
Sourabaya being named after the legen-
dary fight between the giant shark and
crocodile (B. 2/2/’49) —the shield de-
picting the antagonists is Sourabaya’s
emblem —the parallel legend that the river
near the old part of the town where the
battle was fought ran so red with the
blood of the two animals that the natives
called the bridge there Djombattan merah
(“red bridge”), and by that name it is
still known.
# ♦ ♦
“Jim N.”: Now for the slowest man
on the shearing-board. In the language
common to all sheds I’ve been in, he is
known as the “cobbler.” The derivation
is somewhat obscure, though one I’ve
heard propounded is that he can make
a sheep “last” so long. A last is in-
dispensable to the cobbler, and there
you have it.
* * ♦ *
“Bo”; On the strength of the long,
sawny-looking cove’s promise to set
.every saw on the place” in exchange for
a feed, Macdonald’s missus had given
him a rattling good meal. After it was
finished Mac dived for the toolshed and
came back holding a rip- and two
crosscut-saws. As he reached the kitchen-
door he heard the gate click. The sawny
cove was walking briskly down the road.
“Hey! ” yelled Macdonald. “Come back.
What about those saws y’ promised to
sharpen?” “Dunno anything about them
things y’ got there,” replied the sawny
one as he put the pace on. “I was on’y
taught to sharpen circular saws.”
* * * •
“8,A.”: “Spinifex” (B. 2/3 / ’49) is
right in his contention that the fighting
’ro@ gets in his most effective work with
his powerful middle toe connecting at
some height from the ground, but he
errs in claiming this is done with the
whole weight of the animal above the
point of attack. The ’roo doesn’t go
into action like a fighting cock; if he
did he wouldn’t do much damage with
a few flying kicks. The whole weight
of his body rests on the ground except at
the instant when he delivers his devastat-
ing rip. The fighting ’roo closes in,
clasps his opponent with his arms and,
with his whole weight supported by his
legs and his body braced by his tail rest-
ing on the ground, delivers a powerful
outward and downward rip, and if that
takes effect on flank or abdomen the
’roo wins. A good kangaroo-dog does
not give the animal a chance to close
with him. He circles around until the
opportunity of seizing his quany by the
back of the neck presents itself, and
when he secures that hold the kangaroo’s
doom is sealed.
FLYING DOCTOR.
I like to read of those gallant souls
Who fly to the sick man’s aid
Where the endless map of the Bush unrolls
And the loneliest leagues are laid.
But there was a doctor once I knew
Who lived in a western town.
He was a horseman bold, and flew
On a raking, galloping brown.
There was never a hut or a farm too far
When they sent him an urgent call,
Nor would the absence of moon or star
On the 4r> r kest night appal.
No need of a buggy for such as he,
And he nursed no dream of wings;
He asked but a good horse under his knee
And would not have changed with kings.
Many a night as I lay awake
In that little western town
I have heard the breathless silence break
To the h.oofs of that gallant brown.
Doc coming back up the sleeping street,
Or Doc in the start of his ride,
But always the sound of cantering feet
And always that raking stride.
Round him were woven, a hundred tales
Of how in his reckless flight
He would never dismount to drop sliprails
On the darkest starless night.
But, spurs in his nag, would chance a fall
If it served to shorten the way
For the man who knew that an urgent call
Admitted of no delay.
Today there are good men borne a-wing
Still riding the dark miles down;
But memory wakes, and the hoofbeats ring
Of that galloping phantom brown!
SCOTLAND.
Will H. OGILIE.


“Wippegong”: Follow the coast south
from Sydney and you’ll run through
pretty-well-defined belts. Tilba is about
the last outpost of the typical Illawarra —
cabbage-tree palms, big figs and the like ;
then a few miles beyond Bega the bush
takes on that typical [East Gippsland
assortment and doesn’t vary much until
you’ve left the Lakes. Despite the pre-
sence of a post proclaiming a political
boundary, this stretch is all of a piece;
same timber, same scrub, similar inlets,
wildfowl, wallabies and winds. And
through this belt you can stop almost
anywhere and hear the chimes of the
bellbird. In most other parts their
colonies are more widely spaced, but
here they are continuous for mile after
winding mile. As the road turns west in
Vic. you’ll pass a spot called Cabbage
Tree, because a few venturesome palms
wandered that far south from the region
where their ilk abound in close-
packed columns; these are strays, and
have probably regretted their temerity
before this. But you’ll also pass Bellbird
“Cut out the ball-to-ball description, Jones —just tell us if she's nearly
finished."
(after a pause ; last pub before Orbost)
and that name could have been tacked
on to pretty well any bend for the last
200 miles. That is one of the districts
now talking of making a new State, with
Eden as the centre. If it succeeds, it
could have no better emblem than the
trim little green-and-orange songster
whose clear note rings throughout the
region,
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Joe’s Malice block was
at the junction of the crossroads from
Murrayville to Duddo and Cowangie, and
when Joe built his shack about the first
thing that happened was that it became
a port of call for all the battlers, dead-
beats and hummers on the track. A
hospitable cove who’d battled himself,
Joe didn’t mind entertaining the true-
blues, but it got a bit too hot one summer
when no fewer than seven hummers were
camped around in the scrub, eating Joe’s
scran and wasting Joe’s time with their
interminable yarns. Joe did a bit of hard
thinking, and, on the Sunday, when the
gang lined up for dinner, he waited.
Presently Pinky Smith pushed his empty
plate away and looked round. “Blime,
Joe,” he said, “where’s them two little
dorgs o’ yours?” Joe assumed a guilty
look and answered offhandedly, “Aw,
reckon they’re round somewhere.” A
couple of the others whistled and called,
anxious to please Joe, but the little dogs
lemained absent. Interest died and talk
languished as the bots, replete, loafed in
the shade. About three o’clock Ruby
Bill appeared. A long, hard-toiling hard-
doer, Ruby spat when he saw Joe’s
company and said to Joe, “Kin I get a
billy o’ water? That’s all I want out
o’ y’, Joe.” Joe got him the water and
said, “Come round here, Bill. Want a
see y’,” The two went behind the shack.
Ruby’s dog dropped into the shade. A
couple of hummers pricked their ears.
They pricked them some more when
Ruby said, indignantly, “No, I won’t sell
y’ me dawg. Not for a quid. Think a
man’s a flamin’ cannibal!” “Well,” came
Joe’s voice. “They’ve already et me
two little dawgs. ’Course, they thought
it was rabbit or somethin’. But there’s
nothin’ for t’morrer. I got t’ have some-
thin’.” The voices dropped to a bar-
gaining drone. One by one the hummers,
slightly green, faded into the scrub.
When the last was gone Joe went
to the chaff-shed, let his two dogs
out and said, “Well, Bill, y’ better stay
the night, anyhow. There’s a bit o’
corned meat I kep’ hid, an’ you still owe
me a crib game.”
« ♦ ♦ •
“Bon-Yi”: Farmers in parts of the
South Burnett (S.Q.) country are finding
a profitable sideline in gathering the
leaves of a shrubby tree that once was
a pest. Queensland corkwood-trees
are a prolific source of the drugs
hyoscine, hyoscyamine and atropine,
and former sources of supply from
Europe and Egypt have dried up. Some
drug houses have even bought farms in
the corkwood country in an endeavor to
grow the trees on a commercial scale.
Binghi knew that the western corkwood
or “pituri” was a powerful stimulant, and
used it as such for many barter purposes,
The coastal corkwood, Duboisia myopo-
roides, was also used for stupefying fish
and even Binghi himself. The type that
thrives on the chocolate-red soils of the
Burnett country, D. leichhardti, is the
best from the drug point of view, and
its leaves are now being exported to Eng-
land for processing. The tree grows to
about 20ft. in height, send up sucker-
shoots profusely when the main tree is
cut, and has thick cork-like bark and
bears trusses of small white flowers and
long narrow leaves. Small berries form
on the twigs and tum black. Handling
the leaves, which have to be spread out
under cover to dry out thoroughly before
bagging, has its hazards. The dust from
them makes the throat parched and
“choky,” and the atropine content en-
larges the pupils of the eyes. At about
2s. 6d. per pound for the dry leaves it is
a profitable proposition, and now the
lowly corkwood is a prized possession of
many a cow-cocky in the peanut country,
* * * *
“E.”: Dad Stephens was mending his
dog-fence when -the three strangers rode
along. They wore riding-boots and long-
rowelled spurs, and were followed by
a pack decked with leather bags and
“ Gosh-durn it! That thar pinto's losing weight!"
elaborate strappings. “G’day,” Dad was
greeted. “This Echo Mountain up
here?” “That’s her,” he replied. “I’m
Billy Coxen,” the young rider explained.
“Bought a place near Starvemout a while
back. They tell me there’s plenty o’
brumbies on Echo Mountain. We’re
going to have a shot at yarding a few.”
“Yair?” Dad looked the outfit over.
“Sam Brownson, over the other side, has
got the run on the Echo,” he said, “but
I don’t s’pose Sam’ll mind y’ goin’ in.
The brums is a bit of a nuisance to ’im,
at times.” “We’re going to couple them
together,” grinned the rider, “and drive
them out that way.” A fortnight later
Dad spotted the riders as they made their
way back. It was coming on dusk, and
through the scrub on the ridge he made
out a dozen or more animals passing in
the gully below. Followed two unevent-
ful days; then he was once more making
for his dog-fenCe when Sam Brownson
and the local John appeared. “ ’Day,
Dad,” the John hailed him. “Seen any
suspicious blokes around? Horse-thieves
have been up on Sam’s run, and pinched
the bunch of hacks he had out spelling.”
♦** * *
“Zake”: Bill was operating the handle
of the windlass, his mate being lowered
in the bucket, when, reaching too far over
for the water-bag with one hand, he lost
his grip on the handle, which started to
fly round at increasing speed. With
visions of his mate hitting the bottom at
high velocity. Bill tried to grab the flying
handle and was lucky he missed it. Then
as a last resort he hurled himself against
the revolving barrel in the desperate hope
of making a living brake of himself.
The rope cut through his vest and had
just about gone through his flannel be-
fore he slowed it sufficiently to take a
grip of the handle. As he thankfully
grasped it at last the voice from his mate
floated up from below. “Hey, Bill, what
the hell are y’ stoppin’ here for? Y’ got
another ten feet or so to go.”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: At Numurkah they
said Jim Horn wanted some fencing done
at Katamatite but had gone to Nathalia
for a fortnight. So we headed for
Nathalia, and got there to find that Horn
had gone over to stay a week with a
brother at Kyabram. At Kyabram we
were told that, somebody having tele-
phoned him that we were after the fenc-
ing job, he’d left for Numurkah to catch
us. Assuming that he’d hear about us
going to Nathalia, and would go there
and be told we’d gone to Kyabram, we
headed for Nathalia. We didn’t see Jim,
but in Nathalia they said he’d been in,
inquired for us, sent a message to Kya-
bram and gone back to Numurkah to a
pig sale. We telephoned Kyabram, got
the message, which told us to meet him
in Numurkah, and headed for that town.
We were depending on our feet and lifts
for our travelling. In Numurkah we
found that Jim, suddenly realising we
were afoot, had jumped in his car and
rushed over to Kyabram. “There’s only
one thing t’ do,” Mat said. “We’ve lost
ten flamin’ days chasin’ Jim. What he’ll
do now is drive to Nathalia lookin’ for
us. So we’ll get out about five mile on
the Nathalia road an’ camp. We’ll wait
there.” “What for?” I said. “Don’t be
jsilly, mate,” Mat replied. “If Jim finds
us in a town —any town —after all this
chasin’ about, he’ll go crook a million.
But if he finds us camped on the track
he’ll reckon he run us down all by him-
self an’ be as pleased as a dog with nine
tails.” And it was so,
• * » *
Gubradumby’s fire brigade
W as puffing along the road with its hand-
drawn reel bound for the fire at Mc-
Ginty’s about a mile away. A quarter
G f a mile up the road they met another
volunteer driving his horse and cart, and
they gratefully accepted his invitation
to hook the reel on to his cart and all
climbed aboard. Had the driver been
able to see the front of his horse instead
of the rear he would undoubtedly have
recognised the symptoms of dilated eyes
and nostrils. As it was, the first indica-
tion that he objected, to the sound of the
clattering reel was that he bolted. The
driver and brigade leaped gallantly to
safety. It might have been thought that
Captain knew the urgency so speedily
did he reach McGinty’s. But he paused
not to inquire as to the cause of all the
crackling. They recovered Captain and
the reel next day.
* * * m
“Metz”: A knock at her door and
Mrs. Treweek opened to a visitor w r ho
inquired, “Be my old friend John Tre-
week livin’ here?” “Yes,” she replied,
“He do be livin’ here, but just now he be
at old Cornish mine yonder, where he
do work. Cap’n Trevaskis be boss.”
“Well,” said the visitor, “bein’ old chum
John Treweek’s I’ll go to mine and see
’un!” Arrived at the office he asked,
“Do John Treweek be workin’ here,
Cap’n?” “Naw,” said Trevaskis, “Can’t
say as I can mind any John Treweek
who do work here; perhaps he work at
North Cornish, a bit down road.” Off
started the old friend for the North
Cornish, but had gone only a few yards
when “Ey, boay! Just a minute. About
John Treweek, come to think on’t, there
do be at mine a John Treweek who
do carry his billy back and forth!”
♦ * * *
“D.L.8.”: Glasseyes jerked away from
the bar-counter and stumped backward
a foot or so on the flat of his heels.
Droopylids turned laboriously to get him
in focus again. “Washa marrer wish y’?”
he said. “I think I’ll havva (hie) shpa,”
Glassy mumbled. “A shpar?” Droopy
sniggered. “Cripsh, y’ couldn’t hit th’
ground wish y’r (hie) hat.” “Warra y’
mean, couldn’t hish th’ hash wish me
(hie) hish?” Glassy flared. “Well, y’
couldn’t, y’ ole shifiy,” Droopy soothed.
“Lishen, shon, never go shparrin’ in a
pubsh. Hawa quiet drinsh an’ do the ri’
shing. Two beersh, pleash.” Glassy took
the advice, the beer, and, five minutes
later, a nosedive upon the brass-rail.
« « * «
“Atlanta”: “Hanko” (B. 16/2/’49)
should come to s.-w. Queensland if he
wants to sec wood-ducks afloat. In dry
seasons, when waters further west are
scarce, they come in pairs and in little
flocks to secluded lagoons and quiet
reaches of the slow-moving Balonne and
its tributaries. Here, where green-
speckled old-men cod cruise silently in
dark places among sunken logs, the wood-
duck drifts and swims and flaps his
wings, or basks on some log or sand-spit
at the water’s edge. When the rains
come and the rivers rise they go inland
again, to the lagoons and the lignum
swamps and the quiet pools where floods
have been. At night in the monsoon
season, when the sky is dark with promise
and no stars shine, they pass overhead in
low-flying groups, heading north and
west. But today their numbers are
fewer than they were a decade ago.
Young ducks are easy prey to prowling
fox or cat, and the indiscriminate shooters
take heavy toll. In the mid-’thirties a
party of this gentry reached Munga Lake,
a lagoon which fills by floods from the
Balonnd, below St. George, and since
Mitchell’s day a haven and feeding-
ground for countless ducks, pelicans and
waterfowl. In less than a week 800
ducks fell to their guns.
IRRIGATION.
Up t’ y’r eyes in water,
Sloshin’ through the dark,
Floodin’ the bays o’ lucerne,
Ain’t no bloomin’ lark.
Somethin’ cold an’ gleamin’
Wriggles past y’r heel —
Stop y’rself from screamin’—
Only a flamin’ eel!
Hurricane-lamp is smokin’;
Meant t’ clean the glass.
Old-man frogs a-croakin’;
Slowly the hours pass.
“Night an’ the stars are gleamin’,”
Too flamin’ right they are.
They got no flamin’ lucerne;
Wish y’ was on a star.
Midges get in y’r earholes,
’Skeeters land on y’r neck,
Think y’re their flamin’ supper,
Crowdin’ t’ have a peck.
Look at the water failin’,
Must be a bloomin’ leak;
Cotter patch the channel
Or it’ll be a creek.
Toilin’ in mud an’ blackness,
Diggin’ like a mole;
Slappin’ the mud for slackness,
Patchin’ the gurglin’ hole.
Stop t’ roll a gasper,
Hands as clumsy as wood;
Drop the lot in the water.
Cursin’ don’t do no good.
Cotter get up in the mornin’,
Before y’ get t’ bed,
Open the ports on the new lot
An’ check the channel head.
You an’ y’r lantern goin’
Wherever the water goes;
Frogs in y’r flamin’ whiskers,
Webs on y’r flamin’ toes.
N.S.W.
JEMALONG JIM.


Look f
Matson
Label!
itwMiS
Marnay
•ITO.
fST
mKSM
PWJ3M
w wm*
A Penfolds Hospital
Pain soothed instantly
BOILS
BROUGHT TO A HEAD
Nature often causes a boil to
come to a head and thus ease
painful misery . . . BUT . . .
doctors agree that moist heat,
coupled with a poultice action,
helps bring boils to a
head quicker. An
easy, practical way jwwiwww
for you to apply moist IBUII'JIILHTI
heat is by using mlUilW
proven,world-famous
mm
m
m
m
'&EY
Safeguarding your
family’s future
A way to avoid future
care and worry
BY the appointment of Perpetual Trustee Company
Limited as your Executor and Trustee you wiU
ensure maximum protection for your dependents.
The Company has a wide knowledge of industrial,
investment and pastoral problems.
By efficient management and courteous, friendly
service it has grown to be one of the largest Trustee
Companies in the world.
An ever increasing number of professional and
business men, realising the need to provide the maximum
protection for their dependents, are following the example
of men with large Estates who have appointed the
Company as their Executor.
Call or write for a copy of the interesting ’ an
informative booklet, “Your Executor and Trustee, t at
describes the services offered by the Company and tle
cost.
PERPETUAL
TRUSTEE COMPANY
LIMITED
Trust and Agency Funds
under administration exceed
£67,000,000 (The average
Estate being .less than
£10,000).
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE
agent under POWER op
attorney FOR ABSENTEES
& OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR,
ETC.
.
Directors:
Hon. T. A, J. PLAYFAIR, Chairman; B, R- SAG HT;
ALLEN C. LEWIS; Hon. J. p - Managing Director.
SAMUEL HORDERN; H. V. DOUGLASS, taana B iug
a r. awmytAGE. Manager.
33-39 RENTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WAGGA WAGGA, TAMWORTH and ° RA^GE _
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Western Steel
A new steel concern is making
its bow from Westralia, where
it proposes to set up (eventually
using Yampi iron ore), but
“know-how” on the finance and
technical side is being provided
mostly from N. S. Wales. Actu-
ally R. S. Conrow, managing-
director of the new concern,
came from the United States to
Australia 19 years ago, and for
a long period he directed the
affairs of Armco (Aust.) and
Commonwealth Rolling Mills
(in which the John Lysaght firm
is interested) at Port Kembla,
N.S.W. Eric Spooner, chartered
accountant and former member
of a Lyons Ministry, is chairman
of the board. Quinton R. Stow,
Perth solicitor, is a third mem-
ber ; and a fourth is to be nomi-
nated by the Westralian Gov-
ernment, which is subscribing
for 100,000 ss. shares.
Western Steel Enterprises, Ltd.,
is the name of the controlling co.
now offering the public 1,200,000
ords. of ss. each, half payable
on application, the balance on
Nov. 15. Mr. Conrow is to take
an additional 100,000 shares,
payable in shilling instalments
over the next four years. More
capital will be required later.
As soon as possible a sub-
sidiary, Western Rolling Mills
Pty., with £250,000 ■ subscribed
by the controlling co., will start
steelmaking (using pigiron from
the State charcoal-iron under-
taking at Wundowie as well as
scrap steel) and rolling light
sections and pressing fabricated
products. Its factory will be on
50 acres of the old Canning
Park Racecourse, Haddington,
offered to it by the Government
at £3O an acre.
A subsidiary, Westeel Pty.,
with an initial working capital
of £40,000, will be really the
main operating enterprise—it
will proceed with development
of a plan to produce pigiron
from Yampi iron ore, eventually
supplying the requirements of
the Rolling Mills concern. It has
been granted an iron-ore lease on
Koolan Island on the condition
that production of iron ore at
the rate of not less than 200,000
tons a year shall commence
within five years. There is reck-
oned to be about 90 million tons
of iron ore in the co.’s lease,
average iron content about 64
p.c.
A second subsidiary, W.A.
Coal Mines, Ltd., to be financed
by the parent co., will set about
developing a 2560-acre lease on
the Collie coalfield. If no coal
of coking quality is obtained
from the area, the co. may have
to adopt an alternative smelt-
ing process. It is hoped, by
deep-drilling, to find fuel more
like N.S.W. coal than has so
far been found at Collie.
Coal and*management should
represent the key factors in the
success of this enterprise. The
iron-ore side of it seems undis-
puted, and it becomes a ques-
tion of processing costs more
than anything else. Limestone
is available over a wide area.
Management should be capable ;
Mr. Conrow has had a long ex-
perience on the rolling-mill side,
and technicians are to be brought
from the United States for con-
sultation purposes. The Collie
coalfields are 25 miles from the
Westralian coast, and 100 miles
south of Perth. The prospectus
says, regarding the Collie field:
The company’s inquiries will be
supplemented by the deep-drilling
programme about to be undertaken
by the Western Australian Govern-
ment of the whole Collie coal area
to establish the quality of coal, or
the existence of coking coal at con-
siderably greater depth than any
present workings. The company’s
survey will include the investigation
of newly-developed processes in iron
production for which coking coals
are not required.
There is a great demand for
steel and steel products ahead
of the Australian industry, which
at present is mostly concentrated
in the coalfields of N. S. Wales
and at Whyalla (S.A.). The
B.H.P. concerns have established
a standard of efficiency
which it will be hard to
match; but there is no doubt
that a steel industry in Westralia
would receive strong local sup-
port. Australian steel prices,
too, are well below world
parity, which helps on the export
side.
Western Steel Enterprises is
issuing no shares except for cash.
Of the £350,000 which it is pro-
people invested in your company
because our name was associated
with it, and we feel it is possible
that they and others believe that the
company’s engineering operations are
being checked or audited by us, just
as the accounts are overlooked by
the company’s appointed auditors.
This is certainly not . the case.
j t ls to be no t e( j that none of the
plant has been purchased under
g— to «j£* srful opem-
‘]fa n r< ,£ ld e e , ;" rely
\y e feel that it is desirable, there-
fore, so that there may be no mis-
company. We wish to do so as from
this date and to make public such
“I am in some little difficulty about my brief, your Honor."
posed to raise by the present
issues, £250,000 is to be put into
the Rolling Mills co., investiga-
tion of the major iron-and-steel
project is allotted £40,000, in-
vestigation of the coal and sub-
stitute-fuel project is put down
for a maximum of £lO,OOO, pre-
liminary exes, (including broker-
age) for £20,000, and contingen-
cies for £30,000. The entire
issue must be taken by the public
before the co. may go to allot-
ment, which must be not later
than May 15.
The ultimate cost of the major
steel enterprise would, of course,
involve the raising of capital in
addition to that which is at
present being offered. The pros-
pectus does not state what capa-
city the steelworks would have,
and makes no estimate of prob-
able cost. The site may be at
Albany, Bunbury, Fremantle or
Geraldton.
Metropolitan Cement
Gutteridge, Haskins & Davey
have resigned their position as
consulting engineers to Metro-
politan Portland Cement, Ltd.
A copy of their letter of resig-
nation, dated March 9, to the
co. reads as follows:
By arrangement with the original
board of the company we werefap-
pointed as consulting engineers and
were so designated in the company’s
prospectus.
We were consulted at the com-
mencement of operations concerning
plant sites and the purchase of cer-
tain plant items.
For some months the company has
proceeded with detailed arrangements
for the erection of the plant obtained
in JJ.S.A. and for the necessary addi-
tional equipment and installations
associated with this plant.
We have not been asked at any
time to express any opinion concern-
ing the layout or arrangement of the
plant, nor concerning the additional
equipment required to enable the
objects set out in the prospectus to
be achieved.
We are aware that a number of
resignation in the terms of this letter,
We trust that , your operations will
prove successful -
Terms have been announced
for a sale of stock-units in As-
sociated Leathers, Ltd., which
was formed in December to
merge the leather interests
of Michaelis Hallenstein and
Co., Farleigh Nettheim and
others (B. 5/1 /’49). Nearly a
quarter of the co.’s ordinary and
its 5 p.c, pref. stock has been
offered to clients of I. T. Vinton
Smith and R. A. Rowe, Mel-
bourne brokers—the price being
16s. 4d. for the 10s. ords. and
21s. 6d. for the £1 prefs. Paid
capital amounts to £968,145 (of
which £173,189 is preference),
and consolidated figures given by
the investigating accountant
show fixed assets at £291,043,
current assets at £1,156,361 and
liabilities at £559,405 —leaving
net tangible backing of £5 11s.
for the prefs. and 10s. for the
ords. Consolidated profits since
1942, corrected for ordinary
public-co. tax, average £90,731,
which represents 10.3 p.c. on the
co.’s ord. capital after meeting
pref. dividends. On an 8 p.c. div.
basis, yield would be 4.9 p.c. at
the placement price of 16s. 4d.
* * * *
Cotton textiles bearing the
“Caesar” trademark come from
Manchester (U.K.) mills con-
trolled by the Bakirgian family ;
and the Bakirgians have hitherto
shared with the Waltons, of
Sydney, virtually full ownership
of the Australian concern,
Caesar Fabrics, Ltd. Besides be-
ing sole importer and distributor
of the cottons, this co. itself
weaves woollen and worsted
fabrics at Alexandria (Sydney).
Now it is undergoing conversion
to a public co. by virtue of an
issue of 50,000 new £1 ords. at
a 12s, 6d. premium (under-
written by C. B. Quinan and
Cox). Paid capital will be
£225,000 after the issue, and the
shares will have net tangible
asset backing of about 255. 3d.,
adjusting the balance-sheet for
June 30 last. Taxable profits
over the past 10 years ranged
from £31,715 to £78,012, the
fluctuations being attributed, in
the prospectus, mainly to ship-
ping difficulties. Allowing for
ordinary tax on a public-co.
basis, net profits over the period
averaged £33,473, or 14.9 p.c. on
the proposed capital of £225,000.
Probable future dividends of
from .8 to 10 p.c. are mentioned
in the prospectus; the lower
figure would yield a shade under
5 p.c. at the issue price of 325.
6d.


f It s the
maom
i Favourite
fin the New
SQUARE
BOTTLE S
m
fix.
ass
GIN
CjILBEIfS
G 6099
The OLD Formula in the NEW bottle.
economical «1 to MMJT ** ** ,r ’
JUTCHINSONS
wMWVwji
BOOK CLUB
Become a member of Hutchinson’s Universal Book Club,
and promptly at the beginning of eaclf month, the selected
book will be posted to you. A six-months subscription is
£l/1/-, and* 12 months subscription is £2/2/-. Both Post
Free! or, you may join on a pay-as-you-read basis, by
paying 3/6, plus 3d. postage, monthly, upon receipt of each
book. The books are by such famous authors as Naomi
Jacob, Rafael Sabatini, Philip Gibbs, Peter de Polnay,
Philip Lindsay, Denis Wheatley, and many others. Each
book is a current best seller of standard size and quality,
and would normally cost much more.
Send enrolment form now or you may, if you wish, enrol
through a bookseller.
ANOTHER ADVANTAGE
Members may obtain any of the previous selections, still in
print, by forwarding 3/6, plus 3d. postage, for each book.
A list of previous selections is forwarded to all members.
HUTCHINSON'S UNIVERSAL BOOK CLUB
Hutchinson House, Cnr. Collins Place & Flinders Lane, Melb., Vic.
I wish to join your club and enclose & subscription.
NAME
ADDRESS
BC6/10 sb.
MOW— GItBEY’S, the
Gin of International fame
• —in the internationally
famous SQUARE bottle!
Although the square bottle
is new to Australia it is
recognized throughout the
world as the distinctive con*
tainer of the world’s most
distinctive Gin.
Union Bank
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in England )
methods
and a century op experience
have resuited in an organisation
idii
■)de
providing every modern
hanking service .
of
&
ESTABLISHED 1837
Branches throughout Australia & New Zealand
/j
PAUL GRAEM
PREECE.
Arthur J. S. Preece, of 20
Balham Hill, London, S.W.
12, England, a brother of
the abovenamed, would
like to communicate with
Paul Graem Preece, last
heard of in Adelaide in
1915, or any person who
can supply information re-
garding him.
The
“WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
No investor can afford to
be without it.
ECONOMIC REVIEWS.
INVESTMENT ANALYSIS.
MINING NOTES.
Single copies 2/-.
Yearly subscription 22/6.
Published by The Bulletin News-
paper Co. Pty., Ltd., Sydney and
all States.
SHAVE ANYTIME, ANYWHERE
cu
\ -
ISS?
T\
tsr
/P
dm
<
n
Is
■ft
s
THE
ROLLS
VICEROY NON-ELECTRIC
DRY SHAVER
This perfect non-electric precision instrument will givd
efficient service on land, sea or in the air.
Amazingly simple, tits the hand snugly . . . very little
effort needed.
For use at home, in the office, whilst in camp, or trav-
elling. Available from all good stores, chemists and
• tobacconists.
Rolls Viceroy Non-electric
Dry Shaver £6/10/-
A ROLLS PRODUCT AND GUARANTEED BY
Rolls Sales and Service
8a CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY - 8W3028.
70/82.2
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY.
Production and Prices
Incomes and profits in New
Zealand are caught in a pincer-
movement of taxes and prices,
which is closing in on business
and the man-in-the-street as the
flow of post-war millions in
gratuities and rehabilitation
moneys tails off. Political
leaders, from Prime Minister
Peter Fraser and Finance Minis-
ter Walter Nash downwards, are
trying to whip-up production to
make the pound go further, but
there’s no sign that the infla-
tionary pressure, is likely to ease
off soon ; the odds are all the
other way. It’s against “Labor”
principles to siphon-off enough
funds to get down to a
balance with goods, and taxes
aren’t helping because they’re
pumped back into circulation
through swollen State spending,
much of it in direct competition
with private enterprise, forcing
up the cost of labor and
materials, and diverting a grow-
ing volume of manpower and
resources into unproductive
channels. Inflated costs and
prices are a headache for traders
and industrialists battling against
shortages, controls, red-tape, re-
strictions, prohibitions and
bottlenecks, and there s a lot or
misdirection of effort as risky
and uneconomic concerns prey
on sound enterprise in Maon-
land’s rather enervating mdus-
trial atmosphere,
There’s not much incentive for
anyone to put his all into pro-
duction when price-control
allows the inefficient to recoup
top-heavy costs and denies the
efficient his just reward, or
annexes the lion’s share of his
earnings to appease a greedy
Treasury. Economic industries
can’t get enough labor, materials
and capital while so much is
diverted into side channels under
the spreading umbrella of con-
trols. So Maoriland’s industrial
fibre is weakened and its equi-
librium pushed further off
balance. With competition
bridled or discouraged it’s
harder to tackle the crux of the
problem than if the State exer-
cised financial moderation and
the fittest had a fair run for their
money.
For years socialist planners
have been fooling one another
that they can plan and control
everything, insulate New Zea-
land against shocks from outside
and tread the road of perpetual
prosperity; but the Dominion,
still the world’s greatest per
capita trader, has an Achilles
heel that is as exposed and vul-
nerable as in the past. When
export prices drop from today’s
unstable heights a shiver will run
down Maorilanders’ spines. Like
Australians, they’re riding on
the crest of the wave, and they
don’t like to contemplate the
possibility that the wave might
break.
Wage-rise Coming
Like Australia, N.Z. is play-
ing the dengerous game o f
price-lifting, with another round
of wage-increases looming up
ahead and production trailing
well behind. M.L.’s Federation
of Manufacturers, Federated
Farmers, Associated Chambers
of Commerce, Master Builders
and a score of other groups are
worried over the trend, but seem
powerless to stop it. Prime
Minister Peter Fraser says ideas
of fat wage-rises belong to the
“realm of fantasy,” and reminds
workers that they can’t have
more than they produce; and
leader of the Opposition, Sid
Holland, estimates prices will
jump 30s, for every 20s. rise in
wages. Holland warns that a
general order to lift wages will
blow the lid off stabilisation.
But a general order is coming,
and all Maorilanders know it.
They’re bracing themselves for
the shock, or fooling themselves
with ideas that prices will be
“more controllable” this time.
Maorilanders who harp on
the theme of “more production”
and want to put an end to wage-
and price-rises are like voices
crying in the wilderness. Hol-
land tells New Zealand the way
out is by more output, more in-
centives, lower taxes and a
fairer deal for all producers.
Knight James Fletcher, chair-
man of the Fletcher construction
combine and leading M.L. in-
dustrialist, says consumers, who
are only wage-earners under a
different name, will pay the piper
if wages go up ; and that if some
groups manage to get more than
their share others, who live on
fixed incomes, pensions and low
wages, will be forgotten men. He
has a crack at employers, too,
and calls on them to stop cutting
one another’s throats by forcing
up costs of labor and supplies.
A lot of this sort of competition
has been going on, and the Gov-
ernment has been in it. Fletcher
thinks the ceiling has been just
about reached.
Investors are worried over the
profit outlook as mounting
overheads, buyer-resistance and
wavering turnovers threaten
divs. Chairman E. T. Porter, of
the Wellington Trust, Loan and
Investment Co., says; “In spite
of all dictates of commonsense,
the race for higher wages still
goes on. Excessive taxes and
higher wages are inflationary,
disruptive and regrettable from
every standpoint. Improved
standards of living are possible
only by more efficient work and
not by larger pay-envelopes,
e which, with high taxes, tend to
' place prices beyond the purchas-
ing-power of sections of the
community not immediately
benefited.”
All these voices are in tune
with John Bull’s Chancellor
Stafford Cripps, who hit the nail
on the head a few weeks ago
thuswise: “If our people, or any
sections of them, were now to'
try to grab larger money in-
comes, it would lead to our in-
evitable failure There must
be no demands for any further
advance in wage-levels until we
have been able to increase the
productivity of our industries, so
as to make more goods avail-
able.”
Will the workers listen? At.
John Bull’s end, perhaps; but in
Maoriland, no. The Dominion’s
seven-year-old Economic Stabi-
lisation Emergency Regulations
have been doctored to clear the
way for an Arbitration Court
general order, and the only ques-
tion now is, How much?,


SINCE
THE WINE OF TRADITION
i
1847
100 YEARS BETTER
J
PERSONAL ITEMS
Chocolate soldiers have no place in the
leadership of that Sydney Uni. Regiment
(B. 9/3/’49). Its 2 I.C, is Austin Mackell,
owner of probably the first M.C. col-
lected by the Ninth Division, and a 33-
year-old economics student who com-
manded the Tobruk platoon which owned
Cpl. Edmondson, V.C. Mackell was
a conscientious officer ingrained with the
tradition that the welfare of one’s men is
a platoon-leader’s primary concern. His
mob, with typical gratitude, dubbed him
“Mummy.” The night Edmondson was
killed, and won his “For Valor,” Mackell
led his outfit on a savage sortie against
German tanks and infantry. Before they
were through with that stunt Mackell
could snap at his “lambs”: “Now call
me ‘Mummy,’ you blankards!”
“Skip”: That par. on a gathering of
Cobb and Co. veterans (B. 2/3/’49) may
seem to imply that only there does the
name live on. But the lights of Cobb
and Co. still shine on many a lonely
Queensland road—from the mudguards
of a fleet of fast blue-and-gold trailer-
trucks which two energetic young Too-
woomba men, Bolton and Redman, have
built up from the scrap-iron flotilla of
Army rejects and cripples they begaa
hauling with in 1943, and named after
the pioneers. Even then—manned by
men rejected by or invalided out of the
Forces—over four million gallons of milk
were being delivered yearly to army-and-
naval camps in southern Queensland.
Lend-lease and the gradual flow of dis-
charged men built up equipment and
personnel, so that when Premier Hanlon,
during the rail-strike early last year,
called on Cobb and Co, the matey band
was ready. Among their special trips to
feed the State was one direct from Too-
woomba to Townsville with flour —prob-
ably a Queensland record haul —and
another from Brisbane to Longreach, in
the far west. Nearly all drivers are
bushmen, they love the life, and, substitut-
ing horsepower for horses, there is not
so much difference between them and
the Hellfire Jacks and Cabbage-tree
Neds of the old coaching days.
The retirement after 40 years in the
Victorian Police of Inspector Barney Her-
bert recalls the father-and-son record
the name established. When Barney
donned the uniform in 1909, his father,
a sergeant, was retiring after a long
career in which he had won the coveted
Police Valor Badge. Four years later
the badge’s blue ribbon was pinned On
Barney’s chest for saving a woman from
being murdered in Melbourne.
The youngest barrister to get a K.C.-
ship in Melbourne has been followed by
the oldest to get one —Stanley Lewis,
who at 72 will be the doyen of the
body. Lewis could have taken silk
years ago. He has had a legal finger
in many important cases. A recent ap-
pearance was in the 40-hours case on
the side of the unions; a few years ago
he appeared in the 44-hour controversy
for the employers.
March literary days:
On the Ist, in 1911, poet lan Mudie, editor
of Poets at War, was born. Entered this world
on the 2nd, Louis Lavater, poet and music
composer ( Blue Days and Grey Days and The
Sonnet in Australasia), in 1867, and W.A.
novelist J. M. Harcourt ( Upsurge ) in 1902,
Edward Dyson ( Rhymes from the Mines, The
Golden Shanty, Fact’ry ’Ands, etc.) was born
on the 4th, in $65. Also on the 4th, poet
and novelist Arthur H. Adams, one-time
Bulletin “Red Page” editor, died in 1936.
Went into the silence on the 7th, in 1908,
explorer and ethnologist Arthur W. Howitt
(The Native Tribes of South-East Austtalid),
and six years ago Montague Grover, top-notch
journalist and novelist. One hundred and
twenty-one years ago, on the 9th, Richard
Rowe (“Peter Possum”), author of Peter
Possum’s Portfolio, was born. Also born on
the 9th, in 1889, novelist Robert Desmond
Tate ( The Doughman). Founder of the Mit-
chell Library, Sydney, David Scott Mitchell
first opened his eyes on the 10th, in 1836.
Died in 1915, on the 11th, Thomas Alexander
Browne, better known as “Rolf Boldrewood,”
author of Robbery Under Arms. Novelist Kylie
Tennant, author of six novels and winner of
the first (1935) S. H, Prior Memorial Prize,
was born on the 12th, in 1912. Richard
Hengist Horne (“Orion”) went aloft in 1864,
on the 13th. Killed in action in France on
the 14th, in 1918, at 25, playwright Adrian
Consett Stephen. Flora Eldershaw (collabora-
tor with Marjorie Barnard under the name of
M. Barnard Eldershaw), novelist, historian and
critic, is one of the March arrivals.
James Forrestal, who has turned over
the U.S. Secretaryship of Defence to
Louis Arthur Johnson, was born in
Beacon, New York, in 1892, the son of
an Irish immigrant. In the approved
American tradition, he worked his way
through Princeton with part-time jobs on
small newspapers. None too husky, he.
took up boxing, and has worn a battered
nose ever since. In the Kaiser’s war he
was a Navy pilot, and when it ended he
took a crack at financial reporting for
the New York “World.” He found his
niche in Wall-street, joined the gargan-
tuan Dillon, Read concern, became vice-
president in 1926 and its president 11
years later, a few years before shifting to
Washington. Here Roosevelt, whom he
had known as a boy, made him Under-
secretary of the Navy. Under his driving
competence the Service rocketed from its
puny 1940 strength of 383 combat ves-
sels (158,000 men) to a war-time peak of
1500 combat and 50,000 auxiliary ships
(3£ million men). .Frank Knox’s death
in 1944 gave Forrestal the NaVy Sec-
retaryship. President Truman suggested
in January, 1947, a merger to unify the
Army and Navy uqder a single head,
and after the House had passed the Bill
in July ffiat year, Forrestal became the
nation’s first Secretary of Defence.
Among the itiany naval developments
the R.N. has pioneered are night-landings
on carriers at sea. Now the Old Firm
has successfully brought off the first
landings ,on a flight-deck by a jet fighter
fitted with skids instead of wheels. The
ship concerned is carrier Warrior; the
man is Lt.-Gdr. E, M. Brown, the
Navy’s chief test-pilot. For his game
effort—one doesn’t need to be an aero-
nautical expert to foresee *what would
happen if his skids didn’t skid —he col-
lected last week the Boyd Trophy, which
was donated by Vice-Admiral Sir Denis
Boyd, R.N., captain of carriers Illustrious
(at Taranto) and Indomitable, and .in
command of Mediterranean Fleet Car-
riers in 1941.
Carl Harden, owning to the visage
depicted here by Chester, had knocked
around Bananaland a lot before
anchoring in the managing-directorship
of Thos. Brown, in Brisbane, He was
born in Rockhampton, in time to re-
member the boom days when Mt. Morgan
paid 2s. 6d, per SA share a month,
and claims to be the first to reach the
“J.C.” Waterhole, near Betoota in the
far north-west, by ,car. A grim boyhood
memory is of the last public hanging in
Queensland, when, as a lad ordered to
stay home, he sneaked out and saw a
wife-murderer pay his account outside
CARL HARDEN, Q. adventurer.
Rockhampton jail about 1891. A richly-
experienced life of roaming from Thurs-
day Island southward was hobbled by
his joining Thos. Brown in 1918;
he became manager in 1930. Now bowls
and a fine Jersey herd near Samford
replace adventure, on which now and
again he broadcasts.
Trevor Oldham, Victoria’s Attorney-
General, becomes, as from last week,
Deputy-Chancellor of Melbourne Uni.;
which will return him in spells t© that
place where, as a result of studying
economics, he cultivated his present
strong dislike of Government intrusion
into the field of private enterprise. The
strongly independent air he breathed as a
■lieutenant in the R.A.N.V.R. probably
fostered that feeling. M.L.A. for Mal-
vern, he has been in charge of the prices
muddle since Canberra handed it over
last year,
Jhe appended diagram of Fred Body,
stud-merino grazier from Bundemar sta-
tion at Trangie, outside Dubbo in the
Ma State, resulted from meeting Ted
Scorfield at a Union Club dinner when
the sheepman entertained Kippax, Old-
field, Viscount Knollys and other cricket
devotees. Born at Mudgee, and schooled
FRED BODY, cricketing grazier.
at The King’s, Parramatta —where, among
lesser tutorial achievements, he was cap-
tain of cricket —Body smarted as a
jackeroo on his father’s property; at his
father’s death he took over the 75,000
acres and 40,000 sheep, all stud Merinos,
it now runs. As a boy he played cricket
on old Manly Oval with a kerosene-tin
wicket, a brick-wall backstop, and Vic
Tmmper and Monty Noble; and a few
weeks ago he saw the honoring of his
old friend when the Noble pavilion was
dedicated at the Sydney Cricket Ground.
Now on the young side of 70, frosty-
pated but still smiling at Father Time,
Body is willing to vindicate his two pet
theories on the slightest provocation; —
that cricketers are the salt of the earth,
and rabbits its scourge. ;
Though the Territory Mounted missed
their man —the “murderer” of still-alive
Raiwala —they collected a record which
further enhances the reputation of this
bloodhound force, Patrol-Officer S.
Kyle-Little and Constable John Gordon
began their hunt from Millingimbi Mis-
sion in the north, and when they’d ended
it at Mainoru Station in the south, they’d
crossed the 200-odd miles of Arnhem
Land from top to bottoiri, through some
of Australia’s toughest country. It
is probably the first time in recorded his-
tory that this has been done by white
men.
“N.F.C.”; That mention of Captain
Arthur Bell of the Bombo captaining a
John Williams London Missionary So-
ciety vessel (B. 9/3/’49) was well-timed;
the society’s John Williams VI is now in
Brisbane on a showing-the-flag cruise
through Australian and New Zealand
waters. Her captain is Stanton Page,
whose knowledge of the islands piloted
the American Fleet into the landing on
Tarawa. For 105 years the society has
run its John Williams line, all vessels of
which are bought by gifts from children
in the British Isles, Australia, Maoriland
and S. Africa. J.W. V was wrecked on
a mischarted reef off the Samoan Islands
in December, 1948, and her successor,
J.W. VI —380 tons and worth £BO,OO0 —•
was named by Princess Margaret at
Tower Pier, London, in August that year.
Both Captain Page and Chief Officer
Ward are fully accredited missionaries,
the crew is Gilbertese, and their chaplain.
Pastor Jupeli, is a Samoan who, in the
Gilberts when the Japs landed, remained
there through the resultant vicissitudes.
After visiting capital cities here, and half
a dozen N.Z. ports, the ship sails for
Apia on April 26, landing en route
several South Sea Islanders returning
home after serving the mission Ip Papua.
General Blarney will lead Melbourne’s
Anzac Day march, in a jeep. He will
travel thus not because he could not
cross a horse but, because Worses break
the continuity of the procession, they
have been banned. Another marcher
may be Raiwala, Anthropologist Dr.
Thomson has suggested that this assistant
of his on many hazardous Arnhem Land
sorties should be invited down from
Darwin—provided he has recovered from
his reported death-by-murder and sub-
sequent resurrection.
Off to America to brush up his know-
ledge, Dr. J. P, Walsh, Dean of the Otago
(M.L.) dental school. Prior to hopping-
off he attended the Pacific Science
Congress at Auckland, where he was chair-
man of the dental section. With the estab-
lishment of a new dental school in
Dunedin in the offing. Dr. Walsh will
study research-work in dental science,
visit many modern dental schools and
meet prominent dental men. He went to
M.L. from Sydney a couple of years ago.
“X.S.”: A Melbourne artist has lively
recollections of T. M. Burke’s Napoleonic
operations in the realm of real estate
(B. 9/3/’49). His job was to give the
hues of Nature to the contour models
which T.M. had made of his sub-
divisions. Set up in window displays,
these Kid gained a name as far as Lon-
don. The boss required a photograph
of a window, and it was decided to take
it at midnight when the only traffic was
a few streetwalkers. The photographer
set up his gear, held his flash-lamp at
arm’s height and waited for the word.
T.M. shouted “Right!” the cameraman
fired his flash, there was a wild yell and
a dark figure with a long white heard
carrying a billy and a Bible leapt into
the field of vision, then fled yelling along
Queen-street. It was Bible Joe, who hap-
pened to be passing, and who evidently
believed it was the end of the world he
had spent his life in prophesying.
Donald Redding, born in London, came
to Australia in 1914, and two years later
was halfway back home, in Palestine
with the A.I.F. The next collision found
him exploring old ground with a Middle
East infantry battalion, before shifting
to Syria, where a “mention” was col-
lected. When the Japs were stopped out-
side Moresby he was there, too—another
“mention” —and in the Ramu Valley
show with the Seventh Division he came
out with M.B.E. Two-war Diggers
may query the originality of these ex-
periences ; and rightly so, except that
while Redding was gathering them he
prefaced his name with “Reverend.”
Seventh Division men will remember him
as their outfit’s senior chaplain. He will
shortly be inducted as vicar of Mel-
bourne’s St, Andrew’s, in bayside
Brighton.
Into the Silence :-r-
At 89, in Melbourne, Colonel Harley Tarrant,
M.8.E., V.D., designer of the first petrol-driven
car to be used in Australia, a car he later
manufactured. A pioneer motor racer, he won
the first Dunlop reliability trial in 1903, and
formed the first volunteer Automotive Corps in
Victoria. In World War I he organised
at headquarters the Australian Vehicle Corps.
At Dunedin, at 77, Edwin Gibson, for 36
years taxidermist at Otago museum. His biggest
drawcard was the “flesh” with wjnch he clothed
Phar Lap’s bones after that champion’s skeleton
had been forwarded to the Wellington museum
ip 1939. The giant stuffed moa in Otago
museum was also his work.
In Sydney, Mrs. Helena Hides, probably the
first white woman to cross into Dutch New
Guinea. She raised a family of adventurers—
a daughter and son are in Rabaul, another
daughter lives in Cairo and to son Jack the
remotest valleys of New Guinea were about as
well known as a tram-route to its driver.
In' Adelaide, at 69, A. P. Blesing, Minister of
Agriculture for 11 years—a record for S.
Australia—M.L.C. for 25 years and director
of S.A. Farmers’ Co-operative Union. A
farmer 'himself, he believed firmly in agricul-
tural education, and sponsored the extensive
planting of softwoods in the State’s south-east.
In Sydney, at 53, Lt.-Col. Arthur Lancelot
Rickard, D. 5.0., M-C. A two-war Digger, he
commanded tank-attack regiments in Syria,
Darwin and New Guinea in the second war,
and in the first was the youngest major in
the A.I.F. —he was 12 at the cease-fire. Knight
Arthur Rickard, founder of Sydney Millions
*Club, was his father.
In Melbourne, A. D, Book, for 40 years
accident manager of Royal Insurance and a
pioneer of workers’ compehsation in Australia.
He came from England 36 years ago with his
brother, now Judge Book.


Women’s letters
From Melbourne
An excellent start for the appeal by
the Victorian branch of the Red Cross
Society for £lOO,OOO to carry on its work
was given by the handing-over of a
cheque for £14,885 by W. H. McKechnie,
chairman of the recent Miss Australia
Quest, to knight Robert Knox, chairman
of the Red Cross’s Victorian division.
The occasion was celebrated by' a small
afternoon party, and one who looked at
the simple ceremony with some justifiable
pride in a job well done Was Mrs. Mar-
garet Saker, organiser of the Quest.
Others at the party were Messrs. Bruce
Bellamy and Ormonde Baker, Mrs. Eric
Cotterell, Olive Copsey and Louise Reed,
all connected with the Miss Australia
Quest administration, and Mesdames
Eccles McKay, V. Hunt and Val Robie-
son, and Sybil Irving, of the Red Cross.
To celebrate the opening of her new
salon in Howey Court, Alice Reid enter-
tained many friends at a late-afternoon
party. Alice wore a soft-grey frock and
black hat carrying tulle and a pink rose.
Her daughter, Rhona Garrett, was in a
brown faille frock, her hat being of sage-
green satin. Mrs. A. Colman’s black
tailored coat covered a frock of winter-
white crepe. Alice-blue crepe fashioned
Bertha Monk’s frock, and white ostrich-
feathers trimmed her matching hat. Dr.
Margaret Troup chose blue in a deeper
shade. Mrs. A. G. Silk’s black jacket-
suit was topped with a small black hat
which had a rolled brim of emerald-
green satin. Black ospreys trimmed
the black hat which Dorothy Brookes
wore with a black frock. Dulcie Mc-
Leod’s frock was white-spotted navy.
Twenty years ago the State Theatre
added its Moorish towers to the skyline
of this city, and to celebrate the birth-
day anniversary manager J. J. Collins
and his wife entertained at supper in the
foyer of the dress circle. Large flower-
pieces sent from friends and other film
houses comprised the decorations. Mrs.
Collins received the guests in an ankle-
length frock of deep-blue Crepe. The
Angliss lady wore ]an embroidered blue
jacket over her black evening gown.
Mrs. Sam Wells wore a theatre-hat of
black sequins and ospreys with her
draped black evening gown. Mrs. Trevor
Oldham’s floral ballerina frock was worn
under an olive-green velvet coat. Mrs.
A. H. Dennett’s black crepe frock had
a Vandyke yoke of fine black lace. With
her black crepe frock Mrs. W- J. Jung-
wirth wore a black lace straw hat
trimmed with pink feathers, Mrs. W.
Ebstein was in deep-lime crepes. A
black beaded frock and silver-fox furs
made smart alliance for Mrs. Brian Casey.
Forsaking Shakspeare, the Anew Mc-
Master company, at the Princess, pre-
sented James Bridie’s “Dr. Angelus,” a
play in which murder and comedy are
well mixed. As the silly patient, Mrs.
Corcoran, Sheila Helpmann wore a
Parma-violet taffeta suit with a straight,
slim skirt, the jacket having a double,
gathered peplum; her matching toque
of the same material was trimmed with
violet ospreys. In the first-night audience
were Mrs. Garnet Carroll, in a black
gown and hip-length black Persian lamb
coat, edged with mink; Mrs. Norman
Spry, whose ballerina frock of black
tulle had a bodice with a double cape,
which fell to the waist and which was
edged with glittering black sequins ; Mrs.
Philip Dare, the skirt of whose black
crepe frock had a tucked-under peplum ;
Mrs. John Vincent, in a black gown;
knight Rupert Clarke’s lady, who wore
striped pink-and-silver satin; the Linton
lady, black crepes her choice; and Bar-
bara Murray Smith, whose white laces
were cut on bouffant lines.
Bride of the week was Kathleen June,
younger daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Norman W. Hutchinson, of Toorak, who
at St. John’s, Toorak, became the wife of
Sir Rose Price, Bart., eldest son of Lady
Price, of Mayfield, Sussex, England, and
the late Sir Francis Price, Bart. Her
gown of brocaded French lame had a
low neckline and fitted bodice, the trained
skirt being finished at the waistline with
a bustle. A half-circlet of stephanotis
held in place the lovely full-length
Brussels-lace veil; the bouquet was of
gardenias and stephanotis. The bride’s
sister Patricia was bridesmaid ; her gown
was of delphinium-blue crepe, made with
a deep V neckline and draped bodice,
with the skirt full and draped: Suzanne
Hutchinson, the bride’s niece, was flower-
girl and Peter Latrielle pageboy. Best
man was W. S. Kaye. Reception was
held at No. 9 Darling-street, where flowers
from the Mount Macedon home of the
bride’s parents formed the decorations.
Mrs. Robert Lane gave a farewell
buffet dinner-dance in the Venetian Court
of the Australia before her departure
for England in the Stratheden. Mrs.
Lane’s satin gown, striped in green and
silver-grey, had a fichu draped off-the-
shoulder line and a wide skirt. Helping
their mother entertain were Mrs. Charles
Lane, whose gown was of royal-blue and
lime-green-checked taffeta, and Mrs. W.
Hill Smith, of Adelaide, in a dinner gown
of white satin printed with flower-sprays.
English visitor Mrs. C. Millbourne wore
a black tulle frock with the* bodice out-
lined in red. White and blue beaded
flowers. Mrs, Alan Hurley was attrac-
tive in a black Chantilly lace frock with
an inset yoke of pastel-pink net. Mrs.
V. Cornaga combined black gown and
a bolero of white seed-pearls. Mrs. Les
Coleman’s pastel-pink organza frock was
banded with black lace. Mrs. T.
G. Jones highlighted her black draped
gown with a stole of silver mink.
A draped white crepe gown beaded with
jet at the hem, side-drape and neckline
was Mrs. Graham. Nathan’s striking con-
tribution to the sartorial scene. A black
satin Mandarin coat, heavily embossed
with gold embroideries and worn over a
black satin gown, was the choice of Mrs.
Arthur Paterson; Mrs. Harold Nathan’s
royal-blue crepe gown was trimmed with
silver beads. Mrs. Ken McLean’s black
crepe tunic-gown was highlighted with
black sequins ; tiers of lime-tinted tulle
fashioned the off-the-shoulder gown of
Mrs. Maurice Nathan.
Pictured here by Broothorn is Ver-
onica, youngest daughter of Lady Syrhe,
of Blytheswood, Kew, and the late
Geoffrey Syme. Veronica is also the
granddaughter of the late David Syme,
one of the founders of the “Age.” Re-
cently returned from England, where she
spent a holiday with her mother, Veronica
has announced her engagement to Peter,
only son of Mr. and Mrs. W. P. Condon,
of Kew. Having been a student at In-
vergowrie, Veronica knows all about
home management and cooking. Wed-
ding plans are for the middle of the
year.
A fine day for the Newmarket brought
popularity to the printed-silk frock and
the summer hat, though here and there
an autumn ensemble was seen. One of
the most notable of the printed silks was
worn by Mrs. Maurice Nicholas; it had
a background of beige with a white-and-
black-etched design; with it went a tiny
skull-cap of beige velvet with a black
striped ostrich-feather mount. Mrs,
Essington Lewis, whose ensemble of navy-
and-white-patterned silk had for com-
plement a navy-trimmed hat, was accom-
panied by daughters Jane and Mary, the
former in yellow-and-grey-orinted frock
and white hat; the latter sporting a white-
and-Wedgwood-blue-patterned frock and
white straw beret tied under the chin.
The hat worn by Mrs. A. E. Hotchkiss
was notable; it was very large and of
red straw, with the underbrim lined
with Royal Stuart tartan. Mrs. Deane
Schooler’s powder-blue feather-and-velvet
hat offset her black ensemble. Pale-beige
lace gloves matched the beige crepe and
lace frock worn by Mrs. Des Hollywood.
Mrs. lan Potter’s suit was of beige gab-
ardine. Orange, red and blue roses were
splashed on the black frock worn by
Mrs. J. E. Shilliday with an upturned
black felt hat which flew an osprey
mount. A pale-mauve felt hat with a
cockade of black feathers was worn by
Mrs. Ronnie Nott with her black tailored
frock.
From Sydney
On Sunday Governor Northcott and
daughter Elizabeth returned to Sydney
from a visit to Gundagai, Tumut and
Yarrangobilly Caves.
Every third Saturday in the month the
Missesi Cecilia and Annette Maclellan
entertain five or six blind and deaf men
at their charming home, Warrawillah,
Hunter’s Hill, and when the party is over
the hostesses see that their guests reach
their homes safely by car or taxi.
The men, who come from all parts of the
city, look forward to these afternoons.
But they look forward more to the time
when they will not have to go back to
their rooming-houses. For it is the in-
tention of these ladies to give their home
for the accommodation of a group of
these afflicted ones, and they are busy
trying to get the necessary alterations
under way. They want it to be a real
home, to be run at least on the lines of
a good club, where each of the residents
will have the privacy of a room to him-
self, and where there will be a comfort-
able sitting-room in which they may en-
tertain their friends.
Among alterations planned is an upper
story with a wide balcony. When this is
completed about 20 or 30 guests will be
accomihodated. Until a competent staff
has been obtained and everything
is in running order the Misses Mac-
lellan will move into the gardener’s
cottage, if necessary. There are
plenty of fruit-trees and lawns, so
that the grpunds will be a pleasant
place to sit in. Miss Cecilia and Miss
Annette haven’t got the money needed
to get the house going—it is taking much
more than they anticipated—but already
a number of neighbors and friends have
formed a committee to help raise funds,
and Miss Annette hopes that within two
months the first guest will be installed.
Among those interested are the Clive
Evatts and Leslie Wilkinson. Miss
Cecilia is an artist, Miss Annette a bril-
liant French and German scholar, and
although she retired some time ago she is
now doing relieving work for the Educa-
tion Department to help find the money
required for the work of love she and her
sister have made up their minds to carry
through.
A frock of jacaranda-blue satin
brocade, very full as to skirt, the off-the-
shoulder neckline glittering with rhine-
stones, was worn by Mrs. Tom Bateman
at the dance of Loreto Convent Ex-
Students Union. The ball brought about
700 dancers to the Trocadero. The 24
white-clad debs who finished their school-
days last December were presented to
Sydney’s Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress
by Dr. Teresa Carmichael. A striking
feature of the decorations was the Loreto
crest which ornamented the bandstand;
this flowerpiece was the artistic work of
Jean Swinton. This photograph of spark-
ling Mrs. Bateman, who is president of
the union and of the ball committee,
comes from Norton Trevaire.
More avid even than the busy moth in
their pursuit of winter woollens, women
for weeks past have pursued the fashion
displays in the big department stores and
in the small exclusive salons. On a day
last week when a grey and sultry sky
wrapped the city in a steamy, sticky
blanket, a great concourse of women
gathered at Farmer’s and watched a pro-
cession of girls modelling the 1949
autumn styles. Even fashionable women
were observed mopping the neck, and
nearly every second’woman waved a fan.
Of great interest to the girl with Kos-
ciusko in mind were the ski-sets. These
were hand-knitted and came from
Switzerland. Of more general interest
was the coat from Holland of Royal-red
with all the rich toning seen in old paint-
ings. This was full, almost tent-like, had
concealed pockets, was buttoned to the
neck and was finished with a small turn-
down collar in Persian-lamb. Featured
was the inevitable stole, which topped
cocktail and evening dress. Of these the
most attractive was in lace. Personally this •
Letter thought the taffeta a little heavy.
The “frame” collar, which is very like the
Medici collar, added charm ,to many of
the frocks, notably a black taffeta, \yhich ;
had its skirt draped at one hip. Very
glittersome was a snow-white chiffon
evening frock with its silver bugle-bead
embroideries on bodice and skirt. At this
display was one table surrounded by
young men from the Technical College
who are studying fashion design.
Travelling to England by the Orion is
Margaret Salenger, of Killara, and her
friends the Leslie Stuarts, of Gool-
gumbla station, up Jerilderie way.
A flat in London will be their
headquarters, and from this they will visit
the continent and most likely Ireland,
in the north of which the Leslie
Stuarts have an estate. Margaret, who is
very interested in the drama, is looking
forward to seeing every play that is pro-
duced in London while she is there.
Her visit to England will be a surprise
to her kinsfolk Lord and Lady Nathan,
whom she met for the first time during
their visit to Australia- in 1947.
Margaret’s visit was such a hasty decision
there wasn’t time to notify them before
sailing.
Nothing over five guineas is now the
slogan of the Opportunity Shop in Rowe-
street. Last week it completed a very
successful clearance sale and is now
showing a collection of autumn
fashions. In the past, the person
who wished to sell the article fixed the
price, and every endeavor was made to
get it. If this wasn’t possible, a referring-
back to the owner generally ended in a
compromise, so the customer got the
article he or she wanted, the seller made
something out of the sale and the Oppor-
tunity Shop got its commission, and
everybody was happy.
Under the new scheme, goods will still
be sold on commission, but the Oppor-
tunity Shop will do the price-fixing, and
in no case will the price exceed five
guineas. Nothing will be accepted by
the shop unless it is fashionable, of good
quality and in good condition —in this
way the shop will live up to its name.
This shop during its six years of exist-
ence has met all the expenses connected
with the upkeep of the Peter Pap kinder-
garten. These amounted to £6OO per
year for the first two years ; now it is
£l2OO. But the committee of the kinder-
garten, of which Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere
is president, is quite pleased with the
results of its years of work to see in the
bank-book in neat tiny red figures
a credit of £3OOO, more than enough
to keep the kindergarten going for two
years even if they did not make a penny
profit during that period. Just a reminder,
the Opportunity Shop does not limit it-
self to selling on comrpission. It wel-
comes with enthusiasm straightout gifts
—but these, too, must be of good quality.
Mrs. L. S. Du Vernet has arrived from
Roma, Queensland, to visit her parents
(her father is N. C. Laurence of the well-
known law firm), of Cremornp, and
husband’s parents, Dr. and Mrs. Du
Vernet, of Mosman. Highlight of her
arrival was the celebrating of the birth
of a daughter to sister Rosemary, wife of
Richard Thompson.
The Old Sydneians Jubilee Ball will be
one of the before-Easter festivities. The
committee has booked the Trocadero for
April 5, and this year the ball promises
to be even a bigger success than it was
last year. The funds go to Sydney
Grammar War Memorial, which takes
the form of remodelled and new class-
rooms. The Old Sydneians Union is
now'so years old, and everybody is out
to make this ball worthy of the golden
jubilee. As usual there will be only one
lucky-number competition. In the past
the prize has been a black cocker-spaniel
which has been presented to its public re-
clining on a golden cushion. This year,
however, the cocker will be replaced by a
black kitten.
An Easter egg hatched early will be the
Easter Frivolity, one of the permanent
fixtures of the committee of the Food for
Babies Fund. This committee, one, of
Sydney’s most enthusiastic, is tirelessly on
the job all the year, round. As well as
the Easter Frivolity the committee has
planned a radio-party drive similar to that
run last year which brought in £l2OO.
Visiting Sydney for the first time is Mrs.
Hugh Sladen, a granddaughter of General
Booth, founder of the Salvation Army.
She and her husband. Commissioner
Hugh Sladen, of the Salvation Army, are
visiting her sister, Brigadier Muriel Booth-
Tucker, who lives at North Sydney. Since
the war Commissioner and Mrs. Sladen
have done a grand job in establishing
hospitals j, clinics and schools in war-
stricken Europe. For her work in Fin-
land Mrs. Sladen was presented with the
Finnish Government’s highest award, the
White Rose of Finland. Last Monday
night Mrs. Sladen addressed an outsize
in women’s rallies in the Salvation Army
congress hall in Elizabeth-street.


for over eight years travellers have enjoyed the deep com-
fort and personal attention of T.E.A.L service. Upon arri-
val at Auckbnd you disembark quickly at the most modern
vlr base In Australasia, only five minutes from the centre
of New Zealand’s largest city. Book through Qantas or
any leasing travel agent.
(TE-A-I
r t» AmocUUoo •lib 0.E.A., 8.0.A.C.. and B.C.P.A.\
A * H i T *J
rm
e The
This responsibility
is yours
Your beneficiaries have every right to expect that your
estate will be handled with the utmost care. If your
judgment is faulty, imprudent administration can endanger
assets built up by your energy and foresight. However, it
is a simple matter to provide competent control: the
appointment of Burns Philp Trust Company as executor
or trustee ensures that your beneficiaries will be protected
at every turn.
A copy of "Hands That Never Leave the Wheel" will be
forwarded on request. Full details of the Company's many
services are given in this interesting booklet.
DIRECTORS:
James Burns Joseph Mitchell P. T. W. Black Eric Priestley Lee
MANAGER: L. S. Parker SECRETARY: E. R. Overton, A.F.I.A.
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR • TRUSTEE • AGENT
Constituted by Special Act of the N.S.W. Parliament .
Head Office: 7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Tel.: BU 5901 Box 543, G.P.0., Sydney
BP2-49
Commonwealth
Legal Service Bureaux
Addresses throughout the Commonwealth are
4th Floor, Mercantile Mutual
Building
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone UW 1852
Saxon House
450 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
Telephone MU 9194
Epworth Building
PIRIE STREET, ADELAIDE
Telephone Central 6417
A.N.A. House
ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE, PERTH
Telephones: B 6511, B 4797
Crown Solicitor’s Office
COMMONWEALTH OFFICES,
WEST BLOCK, CANBERRA
Telephone 631
T. and C. Building
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Telephone B 9124
Deputy Crown Solicitor’s Office
A.W.C. Building
CLEVELAND ST., TOWNSVILLE
Telephone 1972
Commercial Banking Company of
Sydney
EAST STREET, ROCKHAMPTON
Telephone 3169
Police Building
FRANKLIN WHARF, HOBART
Telephone Central 6658
Deputy Crown Solicitor’s Office
DARWIN
Under Part II of the Re-establishment and Employment Act
1945, members and ex-members of the Forces are entitled to
preference in certain circumstance's in engagement for
employment. They also have other special rights—for
example, in relation lo housing and tenancy, and moratorium
and re-establishment benefits.
The Commonwealth Attorney-General’s Legal Service Bureau
advises, without charge, on all legal matters affecting service-
men or their dependants. Any member or ex-member of the
Forces who believes he has not been given the treatment to
which he is entitled, under the Re-establishment and Employ-
ment Act or otherwise, is invited to place the facts of his
case before the Legal Service Bureau, either by letter or
by personal call
H. V. EVATT,
Attorney-General of the
Commonwealth.
Missing Friend.
OLGA MARGARET CATHERINE JONES,
also known as MARGARET CATHRINE
JONES, was born at Salford, England,
on 17th April, 1898. Her son, James
Douglas Jones, commonly known as James
Douglas Mcßride, was bom at Dalda
Aval, Dandenong, on 6lh April, 1924,
and died on 10th March, 1948, late of 61
Dover Street, Richmond. Deceased’s
grandparents were Thomas Lewis Jones
and Jane Elizabeth Jones, formerly Hic-
ham. Will any person knowing the
whereabouts of any of the abovementioned
relatives of deceased please communicate
with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE,. 412 Collins
Street, Melbourne, the Administrator of
deceased’s estate.
Public Notices.
I, OSCAR EMIL WAGNER, of German
nationality, born at Bemsdorf, Saxony,
and resident thirty-seven years in Aus-
tralia, now residing at 19 Sir Thomas
Mitchell Road, Bondi, N.S.W., intend to
apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
I, THERESIA WAGNER, of Austrian
nationality, born at Weisskirchen, Austria,
and resident eighteen years in Australia,
now residing at 19 Sir Thomas Mitchell
Road, Bondi, N.S.W., intend to apply
for naturalisation under the Nationality
and Citizenship Act, 1948.
THE SERVICE MAN
The Second Fourteenth.
“Ek Dum”: The 2/14 Bat-
talion, Second A.1.F., is the first
battalion of World War II to
have its history published in
comprehensive and orderly
form. It is also one of the very
few battalions of either Great
Wars whose history has been
published on its merits and not
because it is a battalion record.
The author, W. B. Russell, was
second in command of the bat-
talion and had the help of a
publications committee, of which
“Cliff Thompson was president,
secretary and man-of-all-work,”
and about half the battalion
helpers, advisers, urgers and just
plain critics.
The battalion was created at
Puckapunyal as part of the 21st
Australian Infantry Brigade,
then commanded by Brigadier
J. E. S. Stevens, now G.O.C.
Second Division, C.M.F. Its
first C.O. was Lieutenant-
Colonel W. G. Cannon, and it
sailed on the Aquitania late in
1940 for the Middle East. It
did hard training in the desert,
was blooded in Syria, and came
home to face the Kokoda trail,
where it lost its new G.0.C.,
Lieutenant-Colonel A. S. Key,
It was in the heart of the scrap
at Gona, saw the adventure of
Lae and clung to Shaggy Ridge,
finished up in Borneo with a
post-war adventure in Celebes.
It did not have the heavy rolls
of casualties to show which make
the battalion histories of World
War I so dreadful to peruse,
but it had its share —19 officers
and 207 other ranks killed or
died, of whom 14 officers and
137 others were killed in action ;
wounded, 26 officers and 352
other ranks. The total casual-
ties were 45 officers and 559
other ranks. Its greatest list
was attributable to Kokoda —
14 officers and 234 others —and
14 officers and 124 other ranks
at Gona, seven officers and 106
other ranks in Syria. Quite a
few graves were left in the
Markham-Ramu Valley and at
Balikpapan.
The battalion honors were a
V.C., one 0.8. E., four Military
Crosses, three D.C.Ms., one
B.E.M„ 18 M.Ms. and 38 men-
tioned in dispatches.
It has some stirring episodes
to show in its record, and its
casualties list does not always
give a clearly balanced picture
of its real stresses. In his pre-
face Major Bill Russell writes:
It is my hope and wish that where
the words “Battalion,”- “Company,”
“Platoon,” “Section” or “Patrol”
appear, readers who are following
the story of a loved one will read
mentally the words “George or Joe
and his mates.” Only in this way
can a small measure of justice be
done to each man, and some small
tribute paid.
In 12 Platoon, for example, there
was a soldier named Jackie Adams.
He stood about 5 feet 3 inches high.
He was not wounded. He received
no decoration. Yet who can assess the
deeds and worth of Jackie Adams?
He served as a private or section
commander through every campaign
of the. Battalion till the last. A little
of what he endured and what he
survived is evidenced by the fact that
his platoon lost double its fighting
strength in casualties, and he was in
the forefront leading a section as a
private or an “unpaid lance-corporal.”
Yet this brave soldier—tried comrade
in war or between campaigns—is
mentioned by name only once in the
book, and then only in passing.
The Battalion’s V.C. was won
by Private Bruce Kingsbury—-
the first Victorian to wear the
little bronze cross in World War
11, the first Australian to win a
cross in the Pacific or on Aus-
tralian territory—during the
Kokoda-trail campaign, giving
his life for his comrades.
Major Bill Russell has made
a good and thorough job of
the history. It is pleasant to
come across a work of this sort
which has a connected and con-
secutive story, and is not merely
a compilation of unedited or
partly digested narratives; it is
properly explained by good maps
and tables and illustrations and
has a satisfactory index.
The general reader, as well as
members and comrades of the
battalion, will find it a readable
book, and it seems a pity that it
does not inspire the War History
Section to help in the prepara-
tion of a complete set of bat-
talion histories under skilled
supervision as a beginning for
the whole account of Australia’s
share in the war.
The best approach to the
writing of history is through
ordered and compartmented de-
tail to organised Condensation,
and that method is better than
the one which at present seems to
under way and which seems to
involve the employment of an
army of “writers” —to some of
whom the word “history” was
only a vague abstraction be-
fore they suddenly found them-
selves declared “historians” —for
an illimitable number of years,
during which the accounts of the
adventures of the Second A.1.F.,
limited beside those of the First
A.1.F., will unroll into enough
pages to reach from Macquarie
Island to Doodlakine; pages
which few will eVer read.
Growing War Dangers.
“Ek Dum”: The reception
given by the world to news re-
leased during the past few weeks
shows how insensitive the people
of the new generation have be-
come to ominous warnings of
danger.
If the present position had ex-
isted in 1939 the whole globe
would have been in an uproar of
apprehension, the newspapers
calling the British and Austra-
lian Governments to take notice
and misgivings felt in every
corner of civilised life. As it is,
a doped racehorse takes first
place more often in Sydney.
It is difficult to see how the
present world situation can be
resolved without war, for the
reason that Russia and its Com-
munist satellites intend war, have
always intended war and have
been preparing for war for
years in order to eliminate the
British system and establish
Communist world-domination.
The singular thing is that,
though their own literature, in-
cluding that published by the
Australian Communist party,
proclaims this as inevitable, it is
rarely taken sefiously, in this
country in particular.
“Withdraw from Empire”
The press last week discovered
with amazement that the heads
of the Australian Communist
party openly intend to support
the Russians in the event of an
attack of the Soviet Union on
the world. Yet that has been
the proclaimed intention of the
Communist party ever since it
was accepted as part of the
Comintern. Its plans have been
reaffirmed again and again.
First, they were accepted on
affiliation with the Comintern in
1922.
Ten years later, in its Pro-
grammatic Declaration issued in
December, 1931, it declared:
We will expel all governors and
other representatives of British fi-
nance capital, withdraw from the
British Empire and establish in
Australia a workers’ and farmers’
Republic with a Soviet form of
Government led by the workers —the
dictatorship of the proletariat.
We will establish a firm political
and economic alliance with the Union
of Socialist Soviet Republics and
other countries as may be under the
control of the workers and farmers.
On Hitler’s Side
After the outbreak of World
War II the party published in
Australia —late September, 1939
—a pamphlet issued by Dmitrov,
secretary-general of the Comin-
tern and now dictator of Bul-
garia, in which it was set out
that there was only one correct
stand for the working-class of
Australia—a “struggle to end this
predatory war” against Hitler:
The proletariat have nothing to
defend in this war. It is not their
war, hut the war of their exploiters.
It brings them suffering, privation,
ruin and death. Were they to sup-
port this war, they would merely
defend the interests of their enslavers,
their oppressors, they would be sup-
porting capitalist slavery.
Three years later the Com-
monwealth’s so-called “Labor”
Government appointed, among
its trade-union advisers, seven
members of the Communist-
party committee which issued this
dreadful stuff while Hitler’s sub-
marines were destroying British
•shipping and preparing to kill
British women and children and
Australian soldiers and sailors.
It refuses to bar them from posi-
tions in the Stevedoring and
Shipping Control, where they
can hamstring defence. It re-
fuses to root them out of the
C.S.I.R. It employs them and
their associates in confidential
positions in the civil service
without a qualm.
“Defence of the U.S.S.R ”
The Communist party also,
accepted, just beforp World War
11, the Resolutions and Deci-
sions of the Seventh World Con-
gress of the Comintern, which it
published officially in several edi-
tions :
If the commencement of a counter-
revolutionary war (i.e. any war
against Soviet Russia) forces the
Soviet Union to set the Red Army
in motion for the defence of social-
ism, the Communists will call upon
all toilers to work, .with all means
at their disposal and at any price,
for the victory of the Red Army
over the Armies of the Imperialists.
The Communist parties of all
capitalist countries must fight against
all military expenditure (war budgets),
for the recall of military forces from
the colonies and mandated territories
of imperialist Governments, against
emergency decrees restricting bour-
geois-democratic liberties with the
aim of preparing for war; against
restricting the rights of workers em-
ployed in war-industry plants; against
subsidising war industry and against
trading or transporting arms.
These measures were specifi-
cally adopted for th§ “defence of
the U.S.S.R.”
There is no dorfbf about the
Australian Communist party. It
was on the side of the Axis in
1940-41. If Hitler had delayed
his attack on Soviet Russia until
June, 1942, instead of making it
in June, 1941, the Australian
Communists would have been on
the side of Japan when we were
attacked,
A Wicked Technique
The next few months could
bring war. And if it does not
come this year, it may next.
Such are the events in Russia
and the behavior of its satellites
and agents that every summer
until the bomb bursts the
Western world must keep itself
in a stage of tense readiness to
meet surprise attack.
This may, of course, be due
to a cunning and diabolical tech-
nique— to frighten the world
into preparations; then to do
nothing; to shout that prepara-
tions have been made by the
West for aggressive purposes;
eventually to break down the
Western sense of caution and
make the Western Governments
lower their guard; then to
strike.
But it can be taken for
granted that as surely as the
present Russian Government re-
mains in control, so surely will it


if.
iau
tLi
fl FINE HOTEL
A Hotel, certainly one of Sydney’s
leading Hotels. Hut different to
every otHer in many tHings. THe
| Wentworth. for instance. Has ever
iteen noted for Us quiet, restful
atmosphere. AnotHer tHing. too,
while away from tHe noise and
Hustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WENTWORTH
Ut
14 elite I
/ 1
THone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan. Managing Director
The
Mutual Life and
Citizens' Assurance
Co.. Ltd.
Martin Place and Castlereagh
Street, SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of pro-
viding cash for your family, or
for yourself when you retire,
than by taking out a policy with
The M.L.C.
Assets Exceed £56,000,000.
Annual Income Exceeds
£8,500,000.
JI. 0. Alder, A.1.A., Gen. Manager.
Sores caused by
rr ~ r chafing napkin*
are soon tiealed by Cuticura
Ointnwnt.» Stops itching
and irritation and assures
undisturbed sleep. ** Anti-
septic a? Cuticura cannot
harm baby's tender skin.'
One of the famous trio —
Cuticura Ointment. Soap
and Talcum I’owder. ,«■
futicura
VTointment
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest Invention by Dr. L.
Barrere brings to rupture sufferers an
entirely new method of control, the
result of 40 years’ practice and im-
provements, proved suc-
cessful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BABRERE acts like the
hand when placed -flat upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, hold the intestine
In its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BABBEBE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 25Y), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
hup ncom mfei
, stifitb*
SANDERS!
qBS*Hir
Correspondence. Invoice
•tatements. efcu. filed la the
"Sander*" can be securely prices end far-
(bound and converted Into a the? information
(perfect book cl reference at upon application
ithe end of each month —or .
jcmy other period.
Jackson & O'Sullivan Pty. Ltd
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
DUtributing AgtnU — -•
KTONKY . r,
MELBOURNE «t m
' * . 'f
W C. Penfold it Co. Pty. LU
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO VINCENT HANNON formerly of 40
Innesdale Street Arncljffe. —TAKE NOTICE
that EILEEN HANNON has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce (No. 4734 of 1948) on
the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 20th
day of May 1949 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from
MESSRS. ALLAN UTHER & MANS-
FIELD, Solicitors, of 350 George Street,
Sydney.— (l.s.) J. DOUGHAN, Acting
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ERNEST ARTHUR GILLETT for-
merly of No. 59 Great Buckingham Street
Redfern.—TAKE NOTICE that KATH-
LEEN MARY GILLETT has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce (No. 3986 of 1948) on
the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
and will ask the Court to exercise its
discretion in her favour under Section 19
(2) (a) of the .Matrimonial Causes Act
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 20th day
of May 1949 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from MESSRS.
ALLAN UTHER & MANSFIELD, Soli-
citors, of 350 George Street, Sydney.—
(L.s.) J. DOUGHAN, Acting Registrar
in pivoree.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO DOROTHY PRISCILLA GREEN-
HALGH late of Erskineville. —TAKE
NOTICE that WILLIAM ERNEST
GREENHALGH has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 324 of 1949 on the ground
of desertion for three years and upwards
without just cause or excuse If you
wish to defend may enter an appear-
ance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 6th day oJI
June 1949 and obtain a copy of the peti-
tion without charge from FRED A.
NEWNHAM, Solicitor, 28 Martin Place,
Sydney.— (l.s.) J. DOUGHAN, Acting
Registrar in Divorce.
?
DRAW
n
LI
Try your aptitude for Com-
mercial Art by submitting, for
free expert criticism, copies of
test drawings from our presen-
tation booklet. "Art Ability
'h Tests".
m
m
m
pr taa
fI , Q
K %
V/
m
m
Commercial Art will appeal to you.
Leading professionals will cheek over your
work, without cost to you. If you have a
flair for drawing and sketching, there are
quite possibly big opportunities for you
in the Commercial Art world. So write
tonight! The booklet you will receive is
handsomely illustrated and the question-
naire intensely practical.
THIS (?OWOM~A/OU/
art training institute,
80 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Please send me your illustrated 32-page
booklet ART ABILITY TESTS. I enclose
sd. for registered postage.
Name •• *•*
(Mr.. Mrs., or Miss)
Address
State
Bid. IC/3/’49 ai
■ HIMIIMUSiiMMMiIIMMIiii
make war when it is ready, and
nothing the Western world can
do short of creating overwhelm-
ing defence, which is not possible
under present conditions, can
prevent it.
Here are the signs as they
stand:
All the Eastern satellite
countries of Russia are being
organised for war.
Elements which might prove
a brake on public opinion or
promote sympathy with the
West are being eliminated —the
churches were about the only
corporate influence of that kind
remaining, and that only in Bul-
garia and Hungary, they having
been “purged” already in Yugo-
slavia. The recent trials of
churchmen in Hungary and Bul-
garia have taken care of that.
The reorganisation of the
Russian Cabinet and Govern-
ment establishes it much on the
same basis as for the war on Fin-
land and later for the war
against Germany. The moves
in minor offices, little publicised
in the West, have been more in-
structive than those of Molotov
and other seniors. Every move
replaces a person of primarily
civilian experience with one with
a specialised kind of military ex-
perience.
Signs of the Times
The uniform pronouncements
of 17 Communist parties of the
world, including those of Ger-
many and Australia, show an
organised policy dictated from
Russia to act in unison at a set
time. “When Joe turns over, we
all turn over.”
The discovery of fresh Rus-
sian spy activities in the United
States and elsewhere indicates
a certain urgency in action lead-
ing to incaution, especially such
statements as that of Mr. Royall,
President Truman’s Secretary
for Defence, who says it may be-
come necessary to use troops to
protect defence establishments.
Also, the figures and facts
which have leaked out about
specific Russian preparations are
disquieting: —-
(1) Mr. Brendan Bracken, Minister
for Information during the World
War 11, told the House of Commons
during the week that Russia had 282
submarines. It has long been known
that U.S.S.R. submarines were being
built on a large scale and under
German supervision, with the help
of German inventions. Their exist-
ence will call for a very serious
counter-programme, though unless
they are German-manned they will
-not have the efficiency of German
submarines of the same type. A
large shoal of submarines, Schnorkel-
equipped, with 20-25 knots speed
and a world range, is a very different
kind of menace to the 1939 breed of
U-boat. It would be a greater
menace than the atom-bomb.
(2) The changes in the Soviet
Union Government were made on
the eve of summoning what is called
by courtesy the Russian “Parlia-
ment,” a registering body more
hamstrung even than the Australian
Parliament.
(3) The Russian defence budget
this year amounts to roughly
£3,500,000,000, nearly five times the
British defence budget.
(4) A well-known authority—Mr.
R. T. Paget, a Labor member of the
House of Commons —said that the
U.S.S.R. had 30 divisions in Ger-
many alone, had a mobilisation
strength of 300 divisions, and could
raise the number to 550 divisions.
These estimates are capable of being
fully supported.
The whole British Commonwealth,
thanks to the supineness and fiddling
of its socialist Governments and loss
of control of the Indian Army, could
not now put ten divisions in the field
immediately. Western Europe could
not raise that number of trained
regular divisions properly equipped.
The haste with which the
Atlantic Pact is being imple-
mented—it will be signed before
the end of the month—the
speeding-up of the recondition-
ing of the Royal Navy, the sud-
den excursions to the Dominions
of U.K. envoys to discuss de-
fence, the moves in India for a
republic which, as much as any-
thing, are meant to appease the
U.S.S.R., the United States legis-
lation to provide Canada and the
U.S, with a protective radar
screen, the introduction of the
U.S. legislation to ban Com-
munists from citizenship, along
with the development of Com-
munist activity in Asia and par-
ticularly in those countries, such
as India and Pakistan, from
which Britain might draw troops,
all have their implications.
And the directions of Com-
munist activity in Australia —in
coal, in wool-shipping, in the
hampering of B.H.P. operations
—also have their implications.
The time is coming when the
Chifley Government will have tp
decide which side it is on. At
present it behaves as if it were
giving the Communist agents of
the U.S.S.R. every opportunity
to consolidate in key positions
before the row starts.
It is the only British Govern-
ment which now does not openly
affirm that they are a menace to
national safety.
The New Security
Service.
“Ek Dum”: Mr. Chifley has
announced that he has borrowed
Mr. Justice Reed from the
Supreme Court of South Aus-
tralia for a year to create a new
Security Service for the Com-
monwealth.
All that can be said about the
security position is that a new
service certainly is needed, but a
new official outlook on security
is needed even more.
It is not clear what qualifica-
tions Mr. Justice Reed has for
forming the new Security De-
partment. Security is a matter
for thoroughly skilled men, and
calls for techniques probably
at variance with those of Bench
and Bar. But everybody will
wish his Honor luck.
Examination Needed
Searching examination of
some Government departments
for Communists and their agents
is called for, and it is to be
hoped that the new department
will not be deterred by the public
opposition of departmental heads
such as knight David Rivett, who
recently made a severe attack on
members of the Federal Parlia-
ment who had dared to inquire
about the employment by Sir
David’s C.S.I.R. of a man
who had been convicted of
organising a spy system in Wes-
tralian Civil Defence, who had
been sent to jail and interned as
a dangerous character, and who,
when his case was brought up in
Parliament, was actually
violently opposing the Govern-
ment’s rocket-range project.
In an article in the Melbourne
“Herald” recently Sir David de-
scribed the inquiries in Parlia-
ment as a “discreditable inci-
dent” and accused those who
took part in it of having
“blundered badly,” and having
brought down on themselves “a
scathing dictmeut of senior
scientific men” for having “used
the C.S.I.R. as an avenue
for pursuit of rather paltry poli-
tical ends.”
The Case of Dr. May
Somebody should send Sir
David —and the Government
which supports his body’s em-
ployment of a convicted Com-
munist who was indicated
to a Bench by Crown counsel as
“the Fifth Column” — a copy of
the recently-published book of
Gouzenko, the cipher clerk of
the Russian Embassy in Ottawa
who precipitated the Russian
spy trials, together with the evi-
dence which shows the constant
relationship between the Com-
munist parties and the Soviet
Government.
In his book Gouzenko gives
for the first time the full account
of what Dr. Nunn May, who was
sentenced to 10 years by a British
court, knew, what his exact posi-
tion was and what his relations
with the Soviet Union were.
These facts in full detail were
not revealed before for security
reasons.
May was a member of a
British research group picked
with the greatest care by Dr,
J. D. Cockcroft, at the time
about the world’s leading atomic
scientist, to work with him dur-
ing the war when he went from
Britain to Canada to take over
the Canadian atomic'-energy
plant. Gouzenko writes:
Dr. May strikes me as a forceful
evidence q£ the utter impracticability
of attempting to treat a Communist
as just another citizen “with different
political beliefs to my own.”
May had earlier been “an
ardent Communist.” The scien-
tists with whom he worked knew
it, but they his poli-
tical convictions as his own and
selected him purely on his scien-
tific skill.”
In May, 1945 —three months
before Hiroshima —the Russians
got wind of the fact that vital
atomic work was being done in
Canada and the United States.
They learned it mainly through
a Canadian agent who was
regarded by Canadians as
being as mildly safe as May.
Colonel Zabotin, head of
Russian Military Intelligence in
Canada, was instructed to make
contact with May. The telegram
from Moscow described May as
a “very valuable source” of in-
formation, and it was stated :
“He is a corporant [i.e., member
of the Communist party], and
his cover-name is Alek. I con-
sider it best to establish contact
through Sam Carr”—the secre-
tary of the Canadian Communist
party, who fled, was cap-
tured and is now undergoing
trial, and who has been proved
to have been in the pay of the
Soviet Union Government, while
professing that the Canadian
Communists had no link with
Russia.
The Pressure On
Zabotin sent Lieutenant
Angelov to see May, who pleaded
that his “old connection with
Moscow” was severed and that
he “believed he was under ob-
servation by Canadian counter-
espionage.” Angelov told him
“if he refused it would be his
worry, not mine.” He told him
“Moscow wanted a report on
atomic-bomb research in Canada
and the United States.” He gave
May two bottles of whisky and
200 dollars. He obtained “an
extensive and comprehensive”
report from May in twb sec-
tions.
One report covered the tech-
nical processes being followed
in the bomb’s construction,
according to Gouzenko, who
tried to code it. It consisted of
“ten single-spaced type mes-
sages.”
It was so technical andi full of
new atomic terms that it could
not be ciphered and had to be
sent out in the diplomatic pouch.
The second part —mark that
this was months before Hiro-
shima —was a general description
of the atomic project organisa-
tion in the United States and
Canada. It explained the struc-
ture of the Manhattan Project,
gave the names of everybody in-
volved from General Groves
down, and even named the chief
scientist, whose name was then
unknown to the world, Dr.
Oppenheimer. It described the
work being done at Oak Ridge,
Tennessee, at the University of
Chicago, at Los Alamos, New
Mexico and at Hanford, Wash-
ington. The public had not then
heard these names.
What Dr. May Told
Later May told the details of
quantities of atomic material
available, and handed Russia its
first sample of U 23
micrograms.
May also gave the Russians
the details of the U.S. electronic
shells.
Gouzenko’s allegations were
supported by transcripts of
original documents.
May, of course, was not the
only highly-ranking scientist in-
volved. Another fanatic. Dr.
Boyer, a man of considerable
financial means, who was em-
ployed at the McGill University,
Toronto, handed over the
formula for the Canadian ex-
plosive, RDX, the world’s newest
and best H.E. He had also made
financial contributions to the
funds of the Communist party.
Yet Sir David Rivett con-
siders that inquiry about the
background of scientists dealing
with defence secrets is witch-
hunting, and the Government
appears to agree with him —as
do the Communists.
No Security Department is
much use while these sort of
views prevail among Ministers
and their chief administrators.
The matter becomes all the
more important now that it has
been decided that the C.S.I.R. is
to become a defence organisa-
tion—-which it has always been
in spite of Mr. Dedman’s denials
when defending himself against
the charges of allowing it to be
infiltrated by Communists.


UNCABLED
UDDITIONS
MENZIES VIEWS THE EMPIRE.
With the entire set-up of the
British Commonwealth and
Empire distinctly unsettled —‘‘Its
name ; its structure ; its internal
rights and duties; its means of
family consultation ; its place in
the world all in debate” —
R. G. Menzies has contributed
to the current American
“Foreign Affairs” some thought-
ful and constructive views in
strong contrast to the over-
abundance of loose thinking and
the ill-considered acts in such
quarters as U.N.O.
His most important construc-
tive proposal is for what he
speaks of as decentralised
Empire Secretariats —set up in
each country of the British Com-
monwealth, with all the self-
governing British countries re-
presented on each of them. This
by way of alternative or com-
promise for one central Empire
Secretariat, which would have
to be set up in London, but
which has been objected to and
turned down on grounds with
which Mr. Menzies himself does
not agree.
The present position, he
writes, is that “we are moving
from one formula [of British
Commonwealth association] to
another, whether we like it or
not,” and “the time has come
when we should ask ourselves in
which direction we are travel-
ling.”
Among other pressing con-
siderations, will “an all-embrac-
ing formula which will place an
Irish Republic or an Indian Re-
public inside a Commonwealth
which up to now has been
bound together, both legally and
sentimentally, by a common
allegiance to the British Crown,
weaken or strengthen the Com-
monwealth?” Distrusting such
formulae, but accepting as in-
evitable the process of transi-
tion —of “adjustment and
accompiodation,” as he more
confidently or wishfully views
it—he indicates the fundamental
issue that is up for decision; —•
“The more I have thought
about it, the more convinced I
have become that we must now,
onqe and for all, decide whether
the British Commonwealth is to
remain as an organic structure
in which there must be some
permanent binding element
which preserves unity, or
whether it is to broaden out
into a merely functional associa-
tion, an alliance between other-
wise separate and independent
nations. The difference between
these two courses is not verbal,
and cainnat be eliminated by
—Chicago “Tribune . "
TINKERING WITH THE CLOCK.
mere drafting ingenuity. It is
profound. It goes right down
into the hearts and instincts of
British people all over the world,
Are we to be one family under
one head, the King, or are we
to be a business (and perhaps
defensive) partnership with no
more guarantee of permanence
than any other such association
has had in the past?”.
On that, Mr, Menzies states
his “own faith”* at once:
“Alliance is not enough.
Organic union under the Crown
is vital if we are to play our
full part in the world and its
vexed affairs. This notion does
not exclude other and most
friendly associations and agree-
ments. It would even permit
associate, as distinct from full,
Commonwealth membership.
But it gives expression to the
belief that British unity under
the Crown will be destroyed if
and when we accept a new
formula under which we are not
to be British, our nations are
not to be united organically, and
the Crown is no longer to be
significant except to some
members in some places.”
Mr. Menzies recalls the words
used for describing the
Dominions in the 1926 Balfour
formula: “They are autonornous
communities within the British
Empire, in no way subordinate
one to another in, any aspect of
their domestic or external affairs,
though united by a common
allegiance to the Crown and
freely associated as members of
the British Commonwealth of
Nations.”
But, he comments, “In the
years since 1926, and especially
in the last few years, all the
emphasis seems, to have been
placed on the expressions ‘auto-
nomous,’ fin no way subordinate
one to another,’ and ‘freely
associated.’ These have been
treated as connoting a voluntary
partnership of quite independent
nations, and have therefore given
rise to the growing conception
of the Commonwealth as a mere
functional association. But,”
he points out, “this does no
justice to the formula as a
whole. In it separate autonomy
is limited or conditioned by the
significant words ‘within the
British Empire,’ ‘common allegi-
ance to the Crown,’ and ‘British
Commonwealth of Nations.’ ”
Also on that point, Mr.
Menzies would “remind those
who are seeking ways and means
of making us British people
monarchists and republicans at
one and the same time” that the
Statute of Westminster (1931)
repeats that “the Crown is the
symbol of the free association
of the members of the British
Commonwealth of Nations, and
.... they are united by a
common allegiance to the
Crown.” On which he com-
ments; “In an age of cliches, I
pause to remark that ‘a common
allegiance to the Crown’ means
one allegiance, of one nature, to
one Crown, and admits of no
ambiguity.”
Leading up to his suggestion
for decentralised British Empire
Secretariats (and clearly enough
indicating what would be the
rather changed line of Austra-
lian foreign policy under a
Menzies Government), Mr.
Menzies recalls Dr. Evatt’s refer-
ences at Canberra in 1943 to
Australia’s vital interest in any
involvement of Britain in
Europe, and his words “We
cannot contract out of Europe.”
“If we cannot contract out
of Europe,” Mr. Menzies com-
ments, “we certainly cannot con-
tract out of the British Empire.
For it is demonstrable that for
good sober reasons of fact the
British nations must achieve
joint foreign policies if they are
to remain firmly associated.”
Mr, Menzies himself, some
time before Dr. Evatt took to
the political limelight, made the
claim that “primary responsi-
bilities in the Pacific” were rightly
Australia’s. But if Australia, as
contended, should be the spokes-
man for the whole Common-
wealth on Far East and Western
Pacific issues, “there is’equally
clearly 3 reciprocal proposition:
that because Great Britain is the
British nation most immediately
interested in Europe she should
there be the spokesman for all
the rest of us.”
“But how,” he asks, “can Aus-
tralia or Great Britain speak for
the Commonwealth in such
zones unless there has been a
prior consultation designed and
effective to produce one policy?”
Despite present methods of com-
munication and other kinds of
contact, he considers the exist-
ing means of consultation inade-
quate: “ great policies can
be worked out in London, in-
timately affecting a Dominion,
but either not really discussed
with the Dominion concerned or
discussed so late that critical
comment or opposition by that
Dominion would be embarras-
sing.”
As a solution, while not
accepting the view of “those who
see in a London secretariat a
subtle threat to Dominion in-
dependence,” he suggests estab-
lishing a small but highly quali-
fied and constantly informed
Empire Secretariat in each
Dominion capital, containing
representatives of each self-
governing British country. “The
existence of such a joint secre-
tariat sin each capital would pro-
vide not only a splendid means
of pre-consultation but a fine
demonstration of the organic
nature of British unity.” He
acknowledges that this proposal
is very much in line with sugges-
tions made by the South Aus-
tralian Paul McGuire in his
recent book Experiment in
World Order.
Pointing also to “the much-
forgotten truth” that the in-
ternal relationships of the British
Empire are not merely those
between Dominion and Mother
Country, but are also those be-
tween Dominion and
Dominion, he adds: “Because
it is true that the relationships
between Canberra and Pretoria
and Ottawa and Wellington are
of immense importance if the
total Empire structure is to be
soundly built, the case for a de-
centralised Empire Secretariat
becomes overwhelmingly
strong.” And, “so far from in-
volving some lessening of the
autonomy of the Dominions,”
such established consultation
and co-operation “would in
reality add immensely to their
power and prestige.”
In a further indication of the
general fine of Australian
foreign policy following a
change of Government at Can-
berra, Mr. Menzies in effect had
already given the answer to the
fatuous question of the present
Army Minister there, asking the
other day what the Opposition
would do if there was no
U.N.O. —that is, to defend Aus-
tralia! The Menzies remarks
on this point are also a nicely
acid comment on some “Aus-
tralian” performances in the
“brawling cockpit” of U.N.0.:
“There were those who
thought that the organisation of
the United Nations at San
Francisco would diminish the
importance of , the British Com-
monwealth and Empire. This
view derived some color from
the fact that the Dominions are
members of the United Nations
in their own right, and that some
°f , the , m have gone copsid er-
e l en B tll s to prevent other
|£9 pl f from , that the
? SOme
unityof foreign policy.
There was also- an early dis-
positlon to exaggerate the
po f wer of tke Um f ted Nations to
enforce settlements and restrain
aggression. As time has gone on,
however, considerably more
rea h sm j s being shown in this
regar d. Most of those many
m iili on s of British and Ameri-
can p eop i e w ho support the
gen£U - a i idea of the United
Nations would, I think, be pre-
p are d to admit that, in view of
t h e ve t oj the Security Council’s
po Wer 0 f enforcement is negli-
g ib} e ; and that if strength is to
placed behind intelligent
wor id sentiment and judgment
w bh a view to restraining
aggression,’ that strength must
be produced by individual
pa tions acting outside the
charter, or, in other words, act-
big as they would if there were
no Security Council at all.”
However, for what U.N.O.
— N. Y. “World-Telegram.”
WHAT BIRD IS THAT?
may be worth or what it may
be made, “not only does the
United Nations not render the
British Empire obsolete,” says
Mr. Menzies, “but in reality all
special and regional organisa-
tions of a pacific but realistic
kind are of immense importance
as giving solidity and strength to
the international structure.”
Mr. Menzies also fits Euro-
pean Union and such develop-
ments as the pending Atlantic
Pact into his pattern, with this
summing-up of his conclusions:
“If the British Commonwealth
is to possess an organic character
and structural strength, it must
remain as a free union of
nations whose people owe a
common allegiance to a common
Crown. Around that nucleus
there is ample room for general
or special arrangements with
other nations (including the new
republics) of a friendly and, we
hone, enduring and mutually
helpful kind. This means, if you
like, a Crown Commonwealth
within a broader and looser
partnership or alliance.”
Much-hobbled J. Bull.
As already quoted here,
London “Economist” editor
Geoffrey Crowther wound up an
address in New York on
Socialised Britain with the find-
ing: “The ordinary resident in
England, unless he happened to
have been a shareholder in one
of the expropriated companies,
is unable to detect any difference
whatever as a result of nation-
alisation.”
And on that point it is
perfectly safe to say there would
be a great many who would dis-
agree with him, and some of
them might be a little rude. At
any rate, far from being “unable
to detect any difference what-
ever,” one “English resident,
H. W. Seaman, has contributed
a long article to the “American
Mercury” composed entirely of
differences that he has found
only too easy to detect .
Mr/Seaman s outlook is on
the broad field of the effects of
the present Socialist control on
the traditional British way of
life, especially the once-treasured
heritage denominated British
freedom,” which had come to
be looked on as proverbial. He
asks: “Has Socialism in England
succeeded or failed? Is it the
doorstep of the Servile State,
which Hilaire Belloc said long
ago would inevitably be brought
about by the State invasion of
human rights? How much
happier are the people for ‘own-
ing’ the coalmines, but not their
homes", for ‘owning’ the rail-
ways, but not the right to use
their own roads; for putting
their lives and destinies into the
hands of politicians?”
Well, for example, “If more
than two quarts of milk are put
on a doorstep in a week, a
spotter may count heads in the
household, and the householder
and the milkman may land in
jail. To give away milk, or even
to sell it before the politicians
lave ai n ’
thousands of offences that have
been created by the Depart-
mental Orders which are being
issued at the rate of eight a day. ’
He quotes Harold Macmillan,
M.P.: If you sell a green onion
1 jin. m circumference, you are
liable to fine or imprisonment.
Very kindly, the order tells you
that the onions dimensions are
to be measured by taking its cir-
cumference at right-angles to its
axis.
In the past 12 months, the
writer states, there have been
more than 30,000 prosecutions
for disobeying departmental
orders, in the enforcement of
which a large army of officials is
employed”:
“People say, ‘When this is all
over . , . ’ They speak of the
present ordeal as they spoke of
the war—as a calamity that will
surely pass.... Meanwhile,
under Socialism, anyone who
kicks is told that he is anti-sodal.
Housewives march in protest,
and Mr. Shinwell calls them
‘infantile and irresponsible.
When doctors refuse to be
dragooned into wage-earning
public service, Mr. Bevan calls
their professional association ’a
small body - of politicaily-
poisoned people.’ Public opinion
is denounced as ‘raucous
clamor’.”
Disclosing that present-day
London after dark is little
brighter and much lively
than it was in war-time (only
half the street-lights are on, and
in the suburbs all stree-amp
are at lip. ■),
Seaman adds: —-
“What of the psychological
effect of this multitude of regu*
lations and of drabness ana
darkness that encompass ns.
While we fought the war, lig
was what we longed for. yv


When parties
are parties
we always have
Schweppes
the lights go up again’ was the
song... .The lights did come, and
bliss it was in that dawn to be
alive ; but how were we to know
that it was one of those rosy
dawns that bring in dismal days?
“After three years of what
Clement Davies, the Liberal- ;
party leader, has called ‘the most
reactionary Government since
the days of Lord North’ we are
worse off than when we started.
Railways fares and coal prices
are up, and motor-cars are laid
away. We cannot travel up and
down the island, and it’s difficult
to step off it. Our letters can be
opened and searched. A butcher
says to me: T really believe that
customers are looking hungry
now. They look at me, cutting
a piece of stringy imported
mutton, as if they could eat me.
Or is it my imagination?’ ”
A few more representative ex-
hibits from Mr. Seaman’s
socialised-nationalised Chamber
of Horrors (some of them, of
course, more typical of Socialist
bureaucracy than peculiar to
Britain):
“A visitor from afar notes that
a flock of fowls most often
numbers exactly 49, and
wonders why. The answer is
that anyone with 50 or more hens
must register with the Govern-
ment, which claims all his eggs
for the market, at Government
prices. So flocks are reduced to
49 by people who, left to them-
selves, would raise more chickens
and produce more eggs
“British Government authori-
ties estimate that rationed and
other obtainable foods provide
about 2800 calories per person
per day—rather less than the
allowance given to the inmates
of British prisons before the
war....
“If a cow is ill, according to
the East Anglian ‘Daily Times,’
a farmer in a remote district is
entitled to use petrol to summon
a veterinarian; but if his wife
is ill, he must walk or bicycle to
get a doctor
“A businessman who applied
for petrol coupons to enable him
to get to work by car, because
the bus service did not get him
there on time, was given half the
coupons he needed, reports the
St. Helen’s ‘Reporter,’ and told
that, though he could go to work
by car, he must come back by
bus
“When the ordinary citizen
goes to eat at a cafeteria and
passes the cashier with a laden
tray, she tells him the price, and
if it is more than 2s. 3d., she
removes the surplus with a large
pair of tongs. A restaurant that
keeps its price for a meal below
2s. 4d. is exempt from certain
disabilities that afflict more ex-
pensive establishments
“Anyone can buy two-and-
threepence worth of sandwiches;
but he who spends a penny more
must give the names and
addresses of the people who are
to eat them. This is the law,
God help us all!”
One other exhibit: “A man in
Jarrow who laid a crazy-pave-
ment in his garden without a
licence was acquitted of crime
when he explained to the magis-
trate: ‘The highest official of
the Ministry of Works in New-
castle stated that no licence was
needed, provided that cement
was applied not by a trowel but
through a watering-can,’ ”
Crazy seems right, hot only for
the pavement. “Socialism in
England,” Mr. Seaman con-
cludes, “now operates as such
an overwhelming combination in
restraint of trade that it is a
long time since I have heard any-
body say, ‘This is a free country,
isn’t it?’ —except with a wistful
smile.”
And, for an over-all summing-
up, there is the noted writer
Charles Morgan, in the “Sunday
Times”:
“The walls of the prison close
in day by day; the area of enter-
prise shrinks. Day by day the
ceiling of opportunity is lowered.
The prisoners are charged more
for the expense of the multiply-
ing jailers. Food and drink
diminish in quantity and quality
month by month. There is no
incentive to bold undertakings
except a heartless propaganda
1 .which urges all dogs collectively
to jump the moon while keep-
ing chained each dog with a
spring or heart in him.
Socialism, as now interpreted, is
—Washington “Post.”
“DON’T MIND ME—JUST GO RIGHT ON TALKING .”
competition without prizes, bore-
dom without hope, war without
victory, and statistics without
end.”
Exodus Unlimited.
“Xllegal immigrants” from the
Soviet zone of Germany, London
“Times” reported in January,
“are flowing into the Rhine-
Westphalia area of the British
zone at an average rate of 10,000
a month.”
Last month it reported that
they had now risen to 20,000 a
month for the whole British
zone.
“According to their own state-
ments the refugees have left the
Russian zone for political
reasons or for personal safety.
In the younger age-groups
hundreds are taking this course
rather than find themselves con-
scribed for labor and directed to
work in the uranium mines in
Saxony. This influx of refugees
to the British zone is going on
continuously and, according to
official sources, no end to it can
be foreseen for the present.”
Atom Casualties.
Whether or not Moscow has
yet caught up with the atom, the
U.S. National Military Estab-
lishment is assuming “use of the
atomic-bomb by a theoretical
enemy,” and has estimated that
casualties would total 40,000
killed and 60,000 injured for
every bomb burst over a densely-
populated area.
Its report, incorporating a pro-
posed civil-defence plan, expects
that of those 40,000 fatalities (for
each bomb) 20,000 would be
killed outright and another
20,000 would die within the first
week.
The 60,000 injured would in-
clude 20,000 serious cases in the
first week, 20,000 requiring “ex-
tensive” and another 20,000 re-
quiring “lesser degrees” of
medical treatment in the first
three weeks.
Anyone within 3000 yards, or
getting on for two miles, of the
centre of the explosion would be
a casualty: Within 500 yards,
nearly 100 per cent, immediate
fatalities; 500 to 1000 yards,
nearly 100 per cent, fatalities
within the first three weeks;
1000 to 1500 yards, serious injury
likely by flash and flame and
fatalities up to 50 per cent.;
1500 to 2500 yards, many non-
fatal injuries and fatalities run-
ning to 15 per cent.; 2500 to
3000 yards, fatalities held to one
to two per cent.; beyond 3000
yards, “few, if any, injuries may
be anticipated.”
“Casualties would result from
sfiock, burns from flash and
flame, trauma from the blast
itself, and from flying debris and
structural collapse. Peculiar to
atomic attack would be injuries
resulting from exposure to ion-
ising radiations, or fadioactivity.
Symptoms of these injuries, ap-
parent in non-fatal cases in three
to 21 days after exposure, would
be malaise, nausea, bloody-
diarrhcea, prolonged blood-clot-
ting time and lowered resistance
to disease and infection,”
Never before, the report
further states, has any type of
warfare “offered such a rich
opportunity to exploit fear of
the unseen and unknown.”
Hence “prompt development and
implementation of an educa-
tional programme [for the civil
population] is a major undertak-
ing of vital importance to
national security”—of, the report
might have added, any country
not run as a Fools’ Paradise.
The N.T.— English
View,
Quoting the Payne Commis-
sion’s rc that the N.T. is, for
Australia, a “national problem,
a national obligation, a challenge
to other nations and a detriment
to ourselves,” Stewart Harris,
in a letter to London “Times,”
also sees the Territory as “a
great national opportunity” for
Britain.
“Australia supports 13 million
cattle. In the year 1946-47
Britain received over 90 per
cent, of Australian exported
beef, about 70,000 tons. In
future years this exportable sur-
plus of beef will be influenced
by a growing population and
greater public purchasing-power. :
We in Britain are therefore
vitally concerned to increase
Australian beef production. De-
velopment of the Northern Ter-
ritory cattle industry is our
greatest chance. One authority
has recently stated that the Ter-
ritory could hold five million
head where today it only runs
one million.
“Last year in Australia I wan-
dered up to the Territory, stayed
on a 1000-square-mile property,
and spent a week away from the
homestead on a mustering camp
on the edge of the Barkly Table-
land. The general attitude of
the Territorian was something
like this: ‘Your great British
companies never developed their
holdings, Britain relied too
much on Argentina. You for-
got about the cattle in your own
Commonwealth. But that is
over now, and we want to send
home all the beef we can.
Frankly, we believe that this
development is too big for even
the biggest company. It is. a
national problem.. But it is your
problem, too.’ ”
Referring to the Australian
gift of £10,000,000 to Britain last
year, the writer commented;
“What a chance it is for us to
ask that we may spend it on the
Territory! So would our in-
terest be identified with this land
and welcomed by its people.
Capital, however, is not enough.;
Railways, bores, windmills,
fencing, stockyards, abattoirs,
and freight subsidies —these are
all needed, but above all man-
power. Perhaps 2000 aboriginal
natives help to work the cattle-
stations. They are, as a people,
gradually dying out. They
cannot anyway supply the initia-
tive and imagination for pro-
gress. The White Australia
„ , , ~ , j r
policy and the demands of
strategic defence also call for
more settlers in the north,
Where are tbev tn enme from?
vvnere are tneyto come riom/
Australia, small of population
and very prosperous, has 'never
found her people ready to live
in the Territory. Nor is the
ordinary British immigrant likely
to find his way there.”
Hari-ic daps nnt
Mams does not mention
Vestey s ill-fated venture, the
Darwin meatworks, which cost
something like £900,000. Of
that enterprise, the Payne Com-
mission reported that “The fail-
ure and closing of the works,
however have done great dam-
age to the Territory. Intending
investors shudder when they
hear of Vestey’s experience, and
nroceed to find avenues for their
pi oceeu io lino. avenues ror mcir
capital and energy elsewhere.
In our opinion it would now be
extremely difficult to again in-
terect ranital in the Territory
terest capital in tne leriitory
unless sweeping changes in
policy were made as advocated
Ihroushoul this report.” __
The sweeping changes have
never been made, so whether
“energy and capital” could be
.. i i,
enticed back to the Territory
IS a moot point. Harris, how-
ever, believes in a “positive
scheme of direct immigration to
•, r ~ rr .. ~
the Northern Territory :
“Let the Australian Govern-
ment appeal for volunteers, and
, /u T, ... .
may the British Government
support this in our own interest,
A year or tWO/Of training, then
the assistant-management of a
station, and finally a place of
one’s own. The life is rough
and hard, and very good for all
that. To go out alone would be
something of an ordeal of lone-
liness and strangeness. But to
go as one among many, and
6 ..u-
upon this grand design of self-
help in the Commonwealth,
would this not be an inspiration
nn a ;,,ct what some of us are
and just what some or us are
looking for today?
Dragnet Digest.
The “Unconditional Surrender.’’ —
Those who have held the Roosevelt-
Churchill “unconditional-surrender”
pronouncement to have been a for-
mula straight out of a Hollywood
hatchery will find their view sup-
ported in Secret Missions, by Capt.
E. M. Zacharias, the U.S. , naval
officer and Jap language expert whose
broadcasts ■ to Tokyo hastened the
surrender.. In his book he writes:
“If the detailed interpretations of the
unconditional-surrender formula had
been forthcoming in June rather than
the end of July, the war would have
ended without Soviet participation
and before the dropping of the
al : orn ‘ c bombs on Hiroshima and
aga * ’ * * *
Britain's Disarmament.— Referring
to a matter he had brought up in
U.N-°., Britain’s Minister of State
Hector McNeil told a Greenock
audience that Britain had reduced its
armed forces from 8,000,000 to a
little over 800,000. Whether that is
an y lhin 8 to bra 8 about 18 another
question The point Mr . M cNeil
W as making was: “The armed forces
of the Soviet Union probably still
total 4,000,000, yet the,' Russians
accuse * us oi b * emg wa * monge *'
stork Item.— As noted in the N. Y.
“World-Telegram’s” editorial section,
envelopes which the Canadian
Government uses to mai j out baby .
bon us cheques bear a- Government
postmark which says: “Recreation
P a T s dvidetuis.” * *
Stalin > s statements.- For the next
time Stalin makes a “peace offer” or
something of the kind in apparent
,I SS>^S e S. J so^S^ l!, ;
point made by “Wall-street Journal”
should be worth keeping in mind:
“Stalin holds no press conferences.
He § ets a stream of ‘written ques-
tjons> f rom correspondents and an-
swers only those which help further
current Soviet strategy.”
*. * .
Arctlc Colonising.— Explorer Stefan-
sorl) wbo bas a strong liking tor
the outer and emptier fringes (in
Australia the Centre fascinated him),
°^ e f u £ n fLShS
a t Montreal, are progressing remark-
ably with Arctic colonising. He de-
flared that north of the Arctic Circle
m the Soviet Union there are now at
j east s j x c jties of more than 10,000
population. One of them, Norilsk,
holds some 40,000 persons. In the
same latitude m Canada and Alaska,
he pointed out, there are only two
centres and they have some 300
people each.
_ * * . * ... * TT c
Congress Internationalist. U.S.
g ena t e caution over the possible
degree of commitment under the
much-debated Atlantic Pact singularly
JSgff-afi- SKTSSifi
alliances. For, as N. Y. v Times”
has noted, the present Senate is per-
baps the most “internationalist” in
service remain; only 12 of the 31
who opposed lend-lease remain. Most
of the others have been replaced by
internationalists. But many of the
“internationalists” themselves oppose
an American commitment to war.
* * * *
EiQiiiaafcu Wall-street. An cxam-
ination of itg precincts by N _ Y .
“Sun” writer George E. Sok'slsky
leaves the impression that the address
most infuriating to Commos is getting
i nto the class of the old grey mare.
Says Sokolsky: “This country [U.S.]
has to an astonishing extent socialised
the flow of capital, not only reducing
the money-power of Wall-street but
in some areas altogether eliminating
that famous street. For instance,
Wall-street plays little part in the
movement of crops. It plays no role
in the mortgage market. It con-
tinues to do a share of the under
writing of the country, but so d
institutions in Cleveland, Chicago ,
Minneapolis and other cities. Tie
House of Morgan is no longer pivotal
in either national or international
financing and no other hous® has
taken its place.”


Blood Ties
BY RODERICK FINLAYSON
44 1'T'N ASHING his hands again!
\ \ I Always washing his hands!
Y y There goes Tom Walker at it
again,” Mr. Watson, the land-
agent, said to a caller as he heard the
gushing tap over the basin at the end of
the corridor in Pollen’s Building. “Gets
on my nerves a bit, all the day running
to that basin,” he continued. “But as
they say, cleanliness is next to godliness,
and all that.”
“Can’t have too much of a good thing,
I suppose,” his caller said with a hearty
laugh,
“The funny thing is,” said Mr. Watson
in a puzzled whisper, “he always seems
just a little bit grubby. But he’s not a
bad chap. Half-caste, you know. I let
him use part of the office in return for
answering phone-calls when I’m up at
the —up the street on business. Saves an
office-girl.”
The caller eyed the dark cubby-hole
under the stairs that seemed to contain
nothing but a tiny table and a wobbly-
looking chair. Tacked to the wall was
a notice done in faded ink: REGIS-
TERED MAORI INTERPRETER.
WITH a slow, half-tiptoe tread, like
someone entering church late, Tom
Walker came back to his cubby-hole.
In spite of his dark complexion you
would scarcely think him part Maori,
because anything Maori-like in his fea-
tures was disguised by the glumly solemn,
businesslike set of his face. Although
he would still be in his thirties, the tight
and slightly shiny serge suit that he wore
gave him an old-fashioned look. And
that waistcoat buttoned almost up to the
stiff white collar on such a sweltering
day—whew!
He picked up his hat.
“I’ll be out all tomorrow morning,”
said Mr, Watson. “I suppose you’ll be
here to attend to business?’
“Oh, yes,” said Tom Walker, looking
up at the staircase and sucking at some-
thing in his cheek. "Of course, if the
Court suddenly want me . . , Oh, yes, I
suppose I help you out all right.”
“Right!” said Mr. Watson. “You’ll be
here —as usual.”
Looking as if he had forgotten some-
thing, Tom Walker fumbled in his coat
pockets one after another. Then, finding
nothing of importance, he gave up the
hunt, put on his hat and tiptoed out.
WHEN he arrived at his home he
found his wife Lizzie in the kitchen,
the dinner not yet half done. And before
he could open his mouth Lizzie turned
from the electric cooker and began on
him —as usual,
Lizzie Walker was dark, too, but it was
marvellous what the beauty parlors had
done in whisking away what might have
been something of a Maori look.
“Oh, Tom,” she began in her careful
voice that sounded so sweet until you
noticed the slight hardness, “I’ve just
been up at Mrs. Watson’s place. Mr.
Watson keeps his garden looking just
perfect. I wish you liked gardening. And
you should see Mrs. Watson’s new fur-
nishings—they’re just perfect, too!”
“Our place is good enough,” Tom
declared flatly. “Better than a lot.”
Of course it was better than a lot.
Even if she didn’t get much money,
Lizzie made every penny count. She
worked wonders in and about the prim
little rented house in Rose-street, on the
fringe of the better-class district. Trip-
ping about the place, putting on her
best smile, tall and rather angular, but
rather good-looking, too, in a restrained
way, she was always spotting improve-
ments that Tom might make. She wasn’t
going to be put off now,
“Well, I hope it is better than a lot! ”
she said. “It has to be better. We’ve
just got to show those neighbors of ours
that we’re not from the wilds.”
LIZZIE began to get excited. Her
voice became louder and more
metallic.
“Now don’t get worked up, Lizzie,”
Tom said. “You know what the doctor
told you.”
“How can I help getting worked up?”
Lizzie almost shouted,
“I get you everything you want, Lizzie.
More than we can pay for.”
That was true. Except when the Land
Court was sitting there wasn’t much need
for an interpreter in little Pollenville, so
Tom Walker never earned really enough
to come and go on. In fact, once he had
almost brought himself to the point of
chucking the business, taking to pick and
shovel, and hardening his fat, soft hands
by hoeing into navvy work like any man
about Wairoa pa. But then Lizzie mar-
ried him, and she wouldn’t hear of it.
She married Kim to get away from the
pa, and by jingo! she was determined to
make Tom hang on to his white-collar
respectability.
It must have been the pakeha blood
from the father Lizzie never saw that
caused all the trouble. If she’d stayed at
the pa and married a decent, ordinary
chap like Tuki Paraone, who wanted her,
nothing bad might have come of it. But
she would go and marry, against her
people’s wish, another half-caste, and a
mighty respectable one at that.
“It’s always money, money, money,”
Lizzie complained, catching herself look-
ing up at the kitchen clock where the
unpaid grocer’s bills stared back at her.,
“We ought to have money in the bank,
like other people.”
4 4 KI don’t get worked up, Lizzie,”
I Tom pleaded.
“Well, I wish you’d get me a decent
teaset,” she said, changing suddenly to
quiet tearfulness.
“Get you a teaset? And you talk
about money in the bank,” said Tom,
astounded, at the same time thinking how
people were beginning to eye his old suit.
Lizzie made queer, petulant little grim-
aces, trying to master her feelings, at the
same time signalling to Tom to be quiet.
Their only child, John, was coming in
from school. In features he resembled
his mother, but like his father he was
pretty glum-faced, too. '
“Mr. Harris growled at me again,” he
said. “All the other boys have got the
new history-book. It’s only four-and-
six.”
“You see,” Lizzie said. “John could
be the brightest boy in the school if you’d
look after his education a bit more.”
“I never had much schooling,” Tom
said.
“Thank the Lord we have no more
kids!” said Lizzie, going to the cooker
and stabbing the potatoes in the pot with
her fork. “Seems we can’t pay for John’s
schooling even.”
“It would be nice to have a girl, too,”
Tom said, sitting woodenly in the chair
by the unlaid table.
“Huh! ” Lizzie snorted, turning away.
“Huh!”
SHE caught sight of John, still stand-
ing there sulkily, chewing the end of
his pencil and glowering at his old his-
tory book.
“Just look at your shirt!” she said.
“And your shoes! Have you got to get
in such a mess? Have you got to play
games that make so much work for your
poor mother? Take that pencil out of
your mouth and don't stand there with
that stupid Maori look on your face.”
“And don’t let me hear you telling
Maori words to the other boys,” said
Tom suddenly, joining in to show his
authority.
“Oh, I always got to be at him,” Lizzie
groaned.
“The other boys don’t have to do all
the kinds of things you make me do,”
John whined.
“No,” Lizzie said, “but you take too
much after your old grandmother Hina.
See him standing there looking just like
old Hina! We’ll knock that look off
your face. We’ll knock all those old
Maori moods out of you. Do you
hear?” she shouted, banging on the table
with her cooking-fork.
Tom got up and shoo’d at her weakly
and ineffectively with his soft, fat hands.
“Be quiet, Lizzie, be quiet. Now don’t
you get worked up.”
The boy took the chance to mooch
away, biting his pencil, sulkily kicking
at the doormat as he went. Lizzie
flopped on to a chair, in tears again.
With a sigh Tom looked vaguely about
for a plate to begin getting his own meal.
uTHAT young John Walker’s a bit
1 of a problem for his mother, I
believe,” said Mrs. Watson. “Gets her
all worked up. Ido hope he turns out a
credit to his parents. They’re such nice
people. Usually so quiet.” She lowered
her voice. “You’d never dream there was
a touch of the tar-brush.”
“No,” said Mrs. Bickerstaff. But, you
know, I thought there was something.
That must account for —well, that just
now.”
“But still such nice people,” said Mrs.
Watson. “Tom Walker doesn’t drink or
smoke or gamble or anything.”
“Oh, I’m so glad.”
“And he’s very musical. Not a guitar-
strummer, of course, like some of those
Maoris up at the pa. No, the piano.
He plays such nice pieces, like ‘Birdsong
at Eventide.’ ”
“Oh, that is nice.”
“Yes, they’ve made a proper break
with all the old ways. ’ You know, like
up at the pa.”
“Oh, I’m so glad.”
“Yes, when one of their old relatives
died last year Mrs. Walker just went up
to the pa for the afternoon. She made
no bones about showing them she didn’t
hold with that disgusting wailing tangi
business. She went just for the after-
noon, you see. And she didn’t let John
go near the place at all. Of course, they
put in an appearance at the religious ser-
vice at the burial later. Such fine people
to set an example.”
“Oh, how splendid. That just shows.”
A DAY or two later the ladies of the
district were distressed to hear that
Mrs. Walker was down with an illness.
“How is your dear wife?” Mrs. Watson
asked Mr. Walker on his way home from
his office.
“She seems pretty low,” Tom Walker
told her. “The doctor says it’s a kind of
breakdown.”
“Oh, she’s so patient, she’s so often in
the doctor’s hands,” Mrs. Watson said,
looking as though it were so refined to
be in the doctor’s hands, so different
from those Maoris up at the pa, with
their dread of doctors.
“Yes, she does too much,” Tom said
solemnly. “The doctor says something
about too much strain. He says she’s
got to have help.”
But again the trouble was: no money.
Who could he get to help Lizzie?
Mrs. Watson agreed it was a problem.
“We’re all up against it, aren’t we? Of
course there are persons who do that
sort of thing. Oh, look at the time! I
must run to get Ralph’s tea.”
The ladies of the neighborhood, dis-
cussing it amongst themselves, declared
that Lizzie Walker ought to go to a rest-
home or somewhere. There were such
nice places nowadays. You were no
trouble. No trouble to anyone. Of
course, they were pricey. But if you’d
been thrifty, if you’d had any respect for
yourself, if you’d taken the least bit of
pride in your independence—well!
“Anyway,” as Mrs. Bickerstaff summed
it up, “the hospitals are there to look
after such persons, if they’re really bad
enough. That lazy loafer of hers ought
to do something about it.”
And they all agreed with her, thus
disposing of their interest in the subject.
WITHOUT any money in the bank,
all Tom Walker could think to do
was to get a young girl from the poorer
end of the town to drop in after school.
For a few days she came and muddled
around for an hour or two. When Tom
came home he had to try to show her
what to do, and then clean up the mess
after her. He told her not to bother
coming any more.
But not before the neighbors had
hinted at all sorts of things.
“Why did he pick on a bold young
hussy like that? You can’t trust dark
blood, it comes put in the end,” they
hinted mysteriously.
The news of Lizzie’s illness reached
the pa eventually, of course. In spite of
all Lizzie’s slights to them, in spite of the
behavior that had shocked them so much
at the time of her grandmother’s tangi,
in spite of her crazy pakeha ways, all her
family connections at once prepared to
go to her help. They couldn’t imagine
anyone doing otherwise.
WHAT a sight in Rose-street just
about breakfast-time next morning!
It had all Lizzie’s neighbors peeping from
behind their window-shades to find out
what the racket was about. An old Ford
truck, its metalwork a patchwork of
faded blue paint and rust, rattled and
backfired down the quiet street, and
stopped with a crash in the gutter outside
Lizzie’s place.
Out of each side of the narrow cab
leant a young Maori in bright check
shirt, one with a new panama riding on
the back of his mop of glossy curls, the
other wearing an old felt Stetson on his
almost shaven skull. Between them was
a girl, her lips raw red with lipstick, her
black hair rolling down to her shoulders
like a Mexican film-star.
And in the tray of the truck what a
crowd! Propped against the cab, on a
pile of bundles, an old lady with a black
head-scarf and a pipe and tattooed chin
dominated all. Around her, younger
women, with babies wrapped in tartan
shawls, together with youngsters ot ai
ages, and several dogs —real lean goone
{Continued on page 29.)
Spider Against the Moon.
One had only to step a yard
From the blue-black cypress shade
To see the moon break loose
And the garden spider left
Alone in the air with his net
Like a crab in crystal seas.
Thank God it was only the angle
Of sight that showed the devil.
Gripping with claws of death
The last great golden moth,
Dangle one instant in space
Black on the full moon’s face.
N.S.W.
Douglas Stewart.
“Mostly Fools.”
He was full of faults impossible to gloss
over.
The grim, the sour, the liverish philo-
sopher ;
He hated his own stomach, damned it well
and truly ;
Many bitter and cathartic things he shot
off duly:
“Forty million people, mostly fools!” he
spat it out.
—True for you old sobersides, Time can
never blot it out;
True now, true then, a hundred years ago
it was,
True then, true now»so it is and so it was.
True of them, true of us, in spite of our
modernity.
True then, true now, true to all eternity.
N.Z.
ARNOLD WALL.


POPP-DA
BY GE OFF BIN GHAM
THE sun which soaked into Roco’s
skin failed this day to bring him
its usual drowsy contentment, nor
could the sight of his water-sprays,
fuming heavenwards and falling with
slight silver over the garden, rouse him
to effectual joy.
Roco, whose delight was ever in his
fine garden, in the rows of green vege-
tables speckled with the red of tomatoes,
the white of cucumbers and the yellow of
squashes, now seemed to have lost even
his pride of ownership.
For over Roco was stealing a sorrow.
Rather, it welled up from his inner be-
ing, and was compounded of desire,
wistfulness and, a sense of frustration,
for he longed to have love and beauty
and mystery burst in upon him, all at
once. All three were conspicuously
absent, and Roco was sadly certain that
life held no more for him.
Not even Mr. Spiermont, the post-
master, when he came to get a few
pounds of tomatoes, and lettuce, cpuld
succeed in cheering the Italian. Unstinted
admiration of the quality of his celery
failed to rouse him. A deadly inertia,
a fatal sort of bloody-mindedness, was
creeping over him, and the spray, the
color of his plants, the sky above and
the world of the Park rolling away from
him had no power to redeem him.
He was not disappointed in love. That,
for Roco, would have been an experi-
ence and an emotion to savor. It might
even have banished this present ennui,
but the luxury of sorrow was denied him.
WHEN he saw a long black-coated
figure leaning over his fence, regard-
ing him with dark-orbed eyes, he was
startled. He smothered an inclination
to say, aloud, anyway, “Santa Maria!”
and to cross himself, for the gentleman
appeared to represent what Satan would
look like. Not a ranting, pitchforking
Satan with a tail, but a gentlemanly
Satan in a top hat. The devil raised his
hat politely and Roco perceived hair of
a dark and waving beauty. Then Roco
saw that he had been foolish to imagine
this polite stranger was from the infernal
regions. He was not Mephistopheles or
one of his servants, but an angel strangely
garbed.
“Beautiful day,” suggested the saint.
“Bee-ootiful! ” agreed Roco rapturously,
and it seemed, too, that the day was really
glorious. Roco had not noticed it be-
fore, but he saw the sun was shining
happily, and the very air into which the
delicate sprays were pouting was a rich
golden color, and above the gold was
flooded the blue of the sky.
“The day, she is lovely,” whispered
Roco.
“Ah,” said the stranger, still smiling.
“And this is a bit of heaven, eh?” He
pointed to the garden.
“You think so?” said Roco exultantly.
His large eyes began to gleam.
“And your vegetables,” observed the
man. “You grow very fine vegetables.”
“Tomato,” murmured Roco. “Onion.
Da celery, da cucumb, da lettuce.”
“Nothing more?” asked the stranger,
his face growing serious.
“More?” asked Roco concernedly. “Da
squash, da pumpkin, da rock-, da water-
melon.”
“Yes, yes,” said the stranger placidly,
but retaining his gravity, “And nothing
more?”
“Verra fine,” said Roco, his hands
splayed outwards, his whole attitude pro-
tecting his vegetables and his profession.
He stared at his plants as though with
love for his children.
“Fine indeed,” murmured the stranger,
“but nothing more, eh?” He shook his
head pityingly.
ROCO felt the golden glory slip from
■the air, and the blue of the sky dulled,
and the very warmth departed from
around him. His eyes darkened, and he
himself drooped. The stranger who had
restored his equanimity had plunged him
into the substance of dark trouble.
“What you should have,” the stranger
informed him, “is something different.”
His eyes gleamed when he said this, and
he stared into the fascinated eyes of his
listener. “Year after year,” he told Roco,
“you grow—what? The tomatoes, lettuce
and cucumber in summer. The pumpkin
and squash. Then in winter the cabbage,
cauliflowers and turnips, but never any-
thing new.” He shook his head with the
same pity. “Nothing new,” he mur-
mured.
“Ah,” sighed Roco. Now he knew.
All this morning he had wanted some-
thing new, something different. Girls —
ah, they made things different for a time,
but you came back to it, the vegetables,
and then the girls were no good, no, not
even the memory. “Pah!” said Roco
aloud, and puffed his cheeks.
“And I,” said the stranger wonder-
fully, “have something new.”
Surely, thought the adoring Roco, this
is a saint of God, in spite of that foolish
hat. “Santa Maria,” he prayed softly,
and when he looked again a miracle had
come to pass, for the man held between
his fingers a gleaming black pearl. He
tossed it into the air before the eyes of
the breathless Roco, who, watching him,
wondered what would happen. Perhaps
it would burst into flame, but no, it
landed lightly on the palm of the
stranger and without fearful or marvel-
lous consequences.
“Here,” said the stranger, and he threw
the small object to Roco.
With reverence Roco caught it, and,
holding it in his palm, regarded it. The
stranger put a hand into one pocket and
withdrew a fistful of the black shining
bubbles.
“For you,” he said, and he gave them
to Roco, a handful of shining gems.
“For me,” said Roco, awed, grateful,
his voice trembling with joy.
“Plant ’em,” said the man in black,
“and watch.” He breathed mystery over
the last words. “Watch,” he repeated
solemnly,
“But, sir,” protested Roco.
THE man waved his hand, almost dis-
paragingly. “Nothing at all,” he
deprecated. “Nothing at all.” Then he
leaned over the fence and fixed the
mesmerised Roco with his own dark orbs.
“As a matter of fact,” he said, “I’ll give
you more. See if I don’t.”
Making his action suit the promise he
disappeared, magically it seemed to Roco,
and as magically reappeared, popping up
with an ordinary sugar-sack half-filled
with the mysterious pebbles. Roco
watched the man open the mouth of the
sack and withdrew the same
stuff. He let it slip, gleaming,
through his fingers, his eyes
regarding it dreamily.
“Plant,” he adjured
solemnly, and then, lowering
his voice dramatically.
“Watch.”
“Watch,” echoed Roco.
“Superphosphate, blood and
bone,” said the man.
Roco became galvanised.
“No,” he protested stormily.
“No da super. No da blood.
Only da fowl, da horse, da
cow.”
“Yes, yes,” agreed the emissary of
heaven. “Better by far.”
He nodded his satisfaction. “Much
better.” Then he shook a warning finger
at Roco, and almost hissed his utterance.
“Do not tell,” he warned, and shaking his
head in the same mysterious fashion.
“No one, mind!”
“Yes,” said Roco wonderingly.
With that the tall man replaced his
hat, half-bowed and vanished.
“Into the air,” thought Roco despair-
ingly, and with some awe, but beside him
was the sugar-sack and its contents. He
ran to the road, but he could see only
a small shiny yellow car, and this he could
not believe would be the conveyance of
a saint.
HE returned to the sack and examined
its contents. It puzzled him but
filled him with the delightful sense of
the mysterious. Now his boredom was
gone. With increasing excitement he ran
to the toolshed, wheeled out his hand-
cultivator and began marking out a
shallow furrow. Into this he dropped
the seed. He looked at the seed that re-
mained and decided to mark yet another
furrow.
Up then, and down, went Roco, mark-
ing furrows and dropping seed, covering
the seed and making new furrows. His
eyes were bright, and as he walked,
dropping the seed, his lips dropped incan-
tations of a sort.
When he finished the last row he stood
upright and stared about him. What, he
thought, if someone should come upon
him and demand to know about this
new seed? He felt panic-stricken. He
hurried the cultivator back into the shed.
The sack, also, he concealed and scarcely
had done so when he spied a figure in
the distance, walking towards him. He
watched with interest, and saw it was his
old friend Toni. Toni he knew it was,
for Toni alone walked splay-footed and
without sandshoes or boots.
A curious something Roco noticed
about his friend Toni and that was that
whereas, normally, Toni appeared per-
petually sullen, this morning his face
had on it a secret smile, a gentle sort of
happiness generally foreign to the market-
gardener.
A hundred thoughts leapt to Roco’s
mind. Had Toni at last fallen heavily
for some girl. Lucia, perhaps? But, no,
Toni always bore his love affairs like a
man, and a phlegmatic man, too. Then
Toni had, at last won something on a
horse. But no, also, for Toni would
never achieve that, and in his deep heart
Roco knew the cause to be something
wonderful, for never had Toni smiled
like that.
HOWEVER, the smile lost some of its
power when Roco met Toni’s eyes.
For a moment they held this gaze of
friends, but the eyes wavered and Toni
looked about his friend’s garden with
mild interest. As always he spoke in
Italian.
“Tomatoes doing excellently, eh?” he
asked.
“Excellently,” agreed Roco.
“And the cucumbers and the squash?”
said Toni, peering at them.
“All very good,” said Roco politely.
Then Toni sighed, such a sigh as never
before had R»co heard him utter.
“Gardening is very good,” Toni pro-
nounced, and Roco stared at him
astonished. Toni, as both knew, did not
like work, and here he was appearing
to praise it.
“Very good,” said Roco in doubly
guarded tones.
“You planting anything more?” asked
Toni airily, his gaze resting lightly, but
purposefully, on the freshly-stirred soil.
“Something new for a change, perhaps?”
insisted Toni.
Roco’s heart leapt, and began its beat-
ing, more wildly. He had a moment of
believing Toni must have been watching
all the time, hut that could not be. He,
had seen Toni approach from a distance.
He had a sudden impulse which prompted
him to tell Toni, Toni his very good
friend, hut the caution of the black-
coated man had power, and the explana-
tion was held back on the very threshold
of his lips.
“Me,” said Roco quickly. “I shall
plant something. Who knows?” His
words had a terrible lightness about them.
“Yes,” said Toni, and he stared into
Roco’s eyes. This time their gaze did
npt waver, and after a time Toni turned
away, apparently unconcerned.
“Better be going,” he sighed. “I have
to go to the post-office.”
“Ah, yes,” agreed Roco, relieved. “The
post-office, eh, Toni?”
Toni nodded and padded off, his feet
scuffing the. warm dust of the garden.
“See you again,” he shouted at thfc gate.
But Roco scarcely heard him. This
time he had switched the spmys across
so that the white mist of the water floated
down on the new soil. After a few
moments the sweet, freih smell of
moisture upon it came into his nostrils,
but this rare scent Roco scarcely
noticed. He was staring at his tomatoes,
and to him the foliage seemed wonder-
fully greener, the tomatoes themselves a
richer red, and further down the cucum-
bers seemed to have flowered in miracu-
lous yellow profusion.
All was changed, Roco thought, and
he immediately put down the glory of it
to the man who had so strangely
appeared. Now he saw, as always he had
seen, the deep beauty of his own garden,
the magnificence of possessing it, and
his pagan heart almost uttered a prayer
of thanksgiving; almost.
THE seed grew, not miraculously,
something about it seeming almost too
delicate for life, and Roco nurtured it
with care. He watched eagerly for those
first few yellow seed-leaves to appear,
and when they did come he was puzzled,
for he seemed to have seen something
similar. Mr. Spiermont it was who
helped him solve, or partly solve, the
riddle of their identity.
“See you have some corn in, Roco,” he
commented on one of his visits. Roco
turned his eyes away from the crop, as
though not caring what grew in that
patch,
“Mind y’,” continued Mr. Spiermont,
“it is pretty poor com if you ask me.”
Roco’s black eyes flashed. “It is ada
verr-ry good corn,” he maintained
wildly.
“So,” said Mr. Spiermont soothingly.
Toni, when he dropped in again, saw
the crop and reacted strongly.
“Ha!” he said dramatically, and with
that exclamation conversation ceased.
Toni’s eyes roved, thoughtfully from
crop to Roco, and then, shaking his
head, he left without a woid. Roco,
staring after him, almost wailed with
fear. He, Roco, was in league with the
Devil and that Toni knew it, and Roco’s
soul was doomed, his rollicking laughter
gone for ever.
“Santa Maria,” he wailed before his
yellow corn. “Santa Maria.”
ROCO was not alone in his concern.
Finally exhausting his terror he
made towards the village to gather com-
pany from society, and in so doing passed
the excellent farm of Martini Casfari, and
lo! upon the hill, rippling in a faint
breeze, was a crop of young corn identi-
cal with his own. His very amazement
carried him through Martini’s fence until
a bellow of rage from that man, on the
hill, made him effect a hurried exit.
Then, at the farm of Romano and
Benito Ferrari, he saw the ss|d-leaves of
the black grain. It was Everywhere.
With a feeling of wonder he wandered
about the district, and surely enough the
magic grain flourished in all'places.
At the post-office, where gathered the
gardeners for their mail and form-filling,
he expected to hear some mention of the
common crop, but no whisper of it. Truly
(i Continued on page 29)


X
wifh
&
-r
SHAVING CREAM
f.
\
183
FROM
CHEMISTS
EVERYWHERE |
Keep face temperature down, and
whisker inflation away. Join the million
and more shrewd shavers who enjoy
cool shaving security with Ingram's
concentrated shaving cream. Ingram's
users ensure the years ahead are tree
from shaving worry. They know In-
gram's is a cool, refreshing shaving
cream that is kind to the only face
they'll ever own—and it's economi-
cal, too. Ingram's soothes as it
smooths as it softens, so get your
7 FREE shaves on Ingram's by send-
ing immediately the coupon below.
my
CP o '' ql' J
l*’?-
mM
Bristol Myers Co. Pty. Ltd.,
223 Pacific Highway, North Sydney, N.S.W.
mm
NAME
to*-
ADDRESS
Your etoie'o It CINZANO
Vermouth, whether your taste is for
tweet or dry. CINZANO Vermouth
gives Just that extra exhilarating tang
to the palate.
:
SUNDRY SHOWS
"The Gioconda Smile."
The Aldous Huxley short-
story from which this play de-
rives concerns a middle-aged
philanderer who hangs for the
poisoning of his rather tiresome
wife —a service actually per-
formed without his knowledge
by a spinster who expects him
for herself but who, after he
marries another association pre-
viously kept well in the back-
ground, watches and expedites
his passage to the gallows with
a kind of vindictive insanity.
It’s a good story—a cynical
study of retribution with an en-
tertaining strain of acid humor
and some sharp characterisation.
The play (current at Sydney
Minerva) isn’t as good, most of
those qualities having been ex-
cised or lost in the adaptation.
The husband is saved from the
noose by the family doctor, who
wrings a confession from the
murderess at the last moment,
and, a reformed character, re-
turns to his second wife, who
also undergoes a transformation
from a common little baggage to
a stock, sentimental heroine.
Still, it makes an f.a.q. thriller,
padded out with a little over-
much philosophising. Coral
Fairweather plays the murderess
with, at first, a slap-me-on-the-
back heartiness and then, as con-
science, frustration and the
family doctor all work on her,
plunges into some haggard hys-
terics and shrill explosions of
temper. For the purposes of a
thriller her performance is effec-
tive enough, but as for giving
the character the enigmatic
qualities suggested by the title
she is about as mysterious as a
sandwich without mustard.
Grant Taylor’s husband is of
much the same calibre. He does
nothing wrong, nothing inspired
and, as the play progresses, no-
thing unexpected.
The best two performances are
those of Richard Parry as the
doctor and Betty McDowell as
the second wife. There is a com-
fortable air of sound common-
sense about Parry’s medico
which one usually associates with
doctors, while Miss McDowell,
by working hard but not obvi-
ously, touches her role with suf-
ficient warmth and life to make
it credible and, even though it is
the kind of character that should
be spanked or strangled, man-
ages to obtain for it a measure
of reluctant sympathy.
As the man-hating nurse,
Winifred Hindle barks like a, re-
tired general, and, as the re-
tired general, Francis Johnston
grumbles and mumbles like a
man-hating nurse.
Clown in the Desert.
As long as it is understood
that he is a clown, whose mission
is purely to entertain, Sydney
Nolan’s exhibition of outback
Queensland paintings at David
Jones’s Gallery, Sydney, may be
viewed without apoplexy and
even with considerable pleasure.
The three Continental gentle-
men who used to march about
the ring at Wirth’s circus playing
the trumpet song from “Aida” on
little tin trumpets were not three
Beethovens, but they were un-
deniably good clowns.
And as the ability to play a
flourish or two on a tin trumpet
indicates at least a modicum of
musical talent, so do Mr.
Nolan’s paintings exhibit traces
of artistic ability. He draws
such simple forms as grass-
trees quite satisfactorily. He
has bold designs and warm
colors and he can catch the
atmosphere of remote and
ragged places. But his pictures
have nothing of the patient
and masterly craftsmanship,
the inspired fidelity and the
burning intensity of vision of
Streeton’s “Fire’s On;,” which
his skittish flirtations with the
desert distantly resemble, and
they are all yards too big for
his artistic boots.
What he has chiefly is, like
the clowns, a genuinely gay
sense of humor. He sees in the
outback a shanty named “The
Dog and Duck,” so, for no reason
at all, except that it strikes him
as comical, he paints a large and
improbable-looking duck in the
air beside it. He paints his
miners as hatters, or, rather, as
grotesque symbols of hatters.
His work as a whole is a fantasy
of the outback, such as one
might get in a comic ballad
parodying the vital balladry of
the past generation and, as a
parody,- amusing.
The only criticism to be made
of him as a clown is that some-
times, as in his Burke and Wills
picture at the Contemporary
show, his jokes are in poor taste.
Convicts who escaped to die of
thirst in the desert, explorers
who were speared by the blacks
or those who, like Burke and
Wills, played a majestic and
tragic part in this nation’s
history deserve a weightier
comment from the arts than a
titter.
The pictures are painted on
masonite with an enamel-like
substance called Ripolin, which
is used in painting houses and
automobiles. The N. S. Wales
National Gallery bought two of
them for a total of 110 guineas.
* * * *
Moderns, trying self-consci-
ously to be primitive and child-
like, should visit the show of
wood carvings of Percival Field,
of Cobden, at the Velasquez
Gallery, Melbourne. Without
trying to be naive Mr. Field is
naive in the extreme, and with-
out trying to be primitive he suc-
ceeds in producing work which,
from a distance, could easily be
mistaken for some Italian school
before Giotto. A gardener by
profession, Mr. Field whittles his
wood into shape with a knife and
chisel and his technique is not
extensive. He has a simple eye
for color and covers his effigies
of kangaroos, horses, dogs, abo-
riginals and mermaids with a
thick coat of paint or varnish.
One of his most artless compo-
sitions, “The Charger Returns,”
contains a riderless horse, a
semi-nude madonna and on her
lap an outsize in naked infants.
The wife or mother shows nbt
the slightest surprise at the
arrival alone of what is pre-
sumably her husband’s charger,
and the baby on her lap is large
enough to be the missing soldier.
This is all in accordance with
the primitive tradition. “En-
amour” depicts a number of
nude women apparently engaged
in eurythmics, and two large
panels show Diggers, completely
unmoved by their surroundings,
fighting their way through New
Guinea jungle.
Isador Goodman.
From the purely technical
angle few, if any, pianists are
superior to Isador Goodman,
while on the interpretative side
he has improved out of sight.
That he made clear at his three
Sydney concerts. The Busoni
transcriptions of two of Bach’s
Choral Preludes and a group of
Scarlatti Sonatinas tested him
searchingly. His Bach is par-
ticularly strong, though in
some phases the infusion of
warmth would have put it in the
front rank. The pianist’s most
impressive playing was in the
Brahms Paganini variations.
Here the tonal structure built
on the simple theme became
massive, yet always refined, and
the facet of each variation was
made beautifully clear. For the
rest he took his audiences on a
series of musical Cook’s tours,
from the perfumed salons of
Chopin’s Paris through the
rugged Andalusian scene with its
subtle rhythmic nuances, to the
mystic impressionism of the
French school of Debussy and
Ravel, and so to New Guinea,
there to pay tribute to the
Diggers of the Kokoda trail and
Shaggy Ridge.
Goodman’s own composition,
“New Guinea Fantasy,” has the
emphasis on rhythms and tone
color rather than on melody. Of
much the same length as a
Chopin Ballade or Scherzo, it
falls pleasantly enough on the
ear, though it makes no preten-
sions to greatness. Another
modern work which he intro-
duced to Sydney, Howard Fer-
guson’s Sonata in F, is a musical
analogy to a platitudinous speech
by a hack politician—it says no-
thing and says it noisily.
Opening his Melbourne season
at the Town Hall, Goodman
started from unsensational be-
ginnings and worked his audi-
ence up to a spectacular climax.
In his initial concert his Bach-
Busoni Chaconne and his Chopin
Sonata in B Minor, Op. 58, left
his hearers relatively unexcited.
They began to warm up during
a panel by Gabriel Grovlez, a
contemporary of Debussy, who
reflects that master. The lovely
chiming notes in the last item
ran off Goodman’s fingers as
easily as water off a duck’s back.
A Prokofieff bracket lacked the
Same charm, but the gaiety and
speed of a scherzo had the audi-
ence captured. Liszt’s Second
Hungarian Rhapsody was a
miracle of grace and finesse, and
there was a shower of encores
which increased the general
fervor.
Schramm's All-
Beethoven.
It requires no little self-confi-
dence and courage for a pianist
to include in a programme de-
voted entirely to Beethoven
four of the sonatas, including
the profound No. 111, but Paul
Schramm is lacking in neither
of the attributes.
He began his Sydney Con. re-
cital with a rather sluggish alle-
gro of the “Waldstein,” Op. 53.
It was not until the adagio that
he found touch with a fine
serenity. The rondo was as full
of beans as a richly-fed horse
after a spell. The “Moonlight”
was just the “Moonlight,” a bit
overhurried in the final phases.
In the “Appassionata” the emo-
tional conflicts were portrayed
with fidelity. The 111th, Beet-
hoven’s final essay in this form,
was marked by a strongly-woven
fugal material and some beauti-
ful playing in the set of varia-
tions which comprise the closing
arietta.
Cheek 1 -by-j owl with the ro-
mantics and moderns which
comprised Schramm’s second
concert was Mozart’s Sonata in
A Major, .K 331, which might
seem strange until it is recalled
that in this charming work the
greatest classicist of them all
foreshadowed in his treatment
of the trio of the minuetto the
school of pure Romanticists of
whom Schubert was to be the
first. This sonata’s individuality
lies in its being totally devoid
of the sonata-form —its first
movement is a theme and six
variations, and these Schramm
played with the utmost grace.
The well-known Alla Turca,
which winds the work up, was
vigorously sustained. In Schu-
mann’s “Papillons” the pianist
was able subtly to capture the
wit and the spirit of mischie-
vousness that lies behind it. The
same composer’s “Arabesque”
was a gem of tender expression.
Mendelssohn’s too-seldom-heard
“Seventeen Serious Variations”
were taken sometimes at a trip-
ping tempo, though the general
effect remained clear.
Musica Viva.
As an earnest of its laudable
intention to perform during the
year all of Beethoven’s 17 quar-
tets Musica Viva’s ensemble —
violinists Robert Pikler and
Edward Cockman, violist
Richard Goldner and ’cellist
Theo Salzmann —gave at the
opening concert of the season
at Sydney Con. two widely-di-
versified examples of the com-
poser’s experiments in this field:
the G Major Quartet of Op. 18
and that in A Minor, Op. 132.
In the former all the classic
grace which the Master of Bonn
inherited from Mozart and
Haydn, plus some of his own
lucidity and gruff humor, were
preserved in a reading which
had a clear-cut sprightliness and
a poignancy when the tempo
dropped. The opening allegro
of the A Minor only partially
succeeded in captivating the
feverish agitation and nervous-
ness inherent in it. Improve-
ment came with the resurgent
vitality of the Allegro ma non
troppo. The quartet’s best work
went into the Adagio, which be-
came a deeply-devotional state-
ment reflecting the composer’s
thanks to his Maker for recovery
from a serious illness.
At the Films.
“On Our Merry Way” (Syd-
ney Esquire): Burgess Meredith,
clerk in the lost-dog section of a
newspaper advertising depart-
ment, is egged on to higher
things by his wife (Paulette God-
dard) and manages to get the Job
of “roving reporter” for a day.
He asks the question, “What in-
fluence has a little child had on
your life?” of musicians James
Stewart and Henry Fonda, of
actress Dorothy Lamour, and
of conjuror Fred Mac Murray.
Their answers provide the three
lightly-amusing episodes which
make up the bulk of the film.
Best items are Dorothy Lamour’s
burlesque of Dorothy Lamour—
done with a wild enthusiasm
that even Betty Hutton couldn’t
better —and five minutes’ superb
clowning by that professor of
them all, Hugh Herbert.
“Dark Passage” (Sydney
Plaza): Humphrey Bogart,
wrongly convicted of the murder
of his wife, escapes after three
years in San Quentin, A plastic
surgeon rebuilds his phiz and a
sultry young 'artist (Lauren
Bacall) shelters him while he
catches up with the real mur-
derer. F.a.q. stuff supported by
a Hopalong Cassidy bang-
gotcher.


don’t buy
unless he can answer
to this important question
v;
No matter whether it’s a refrigerator or practically
■ay other item of domestic ‘‘machinery” —atk whether
ll’s eonttructed with COMROL Steel. If the salesman
can answer “Yes/* you can buy
with complete assurance that
tou are making a lifetime
investment. Comrol Sheet
Steel gives enduring STAMINA
to such domestic equipment.
STEEL SHEETS FOR INDUSTRY
COMMONWEALTH ROLLING MILLS PTY. LTD.
H»ad Offlcs and Werkt} Part Kembla. M.S.W.
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LIMITED—GENERAL SALES
AGENTS : 33 Macquarie Place. MELBOURNE: 70-84 Clarendon
Street, South Melbourne. ADELAIDE: 13 Grenfell Street. BRISBANE:
807-311 Queen Street. FREMANTLE: Corner of Short and Pakenham
Streets. WELLINGTON, N.Z.; John Lysaght’s Bristol Works Limited.
m
a
ALL KINDS OF
FISHING TACKLE!
For river, beach and deep
sea fishermen. English and
French NYLON LINES...
hunting knives . . . smokers’
requisites. Write for new
fishing catalogue, now avail-
able.
I CRAIG & AITKEN
654 George St., Sydney.
Phone M 6861.
Nu-METAL
SAVES
ENGINE NEW
REBORE RINGS
Just pour RE-NU Liquid NU-METAL
through plug holes. NU-METAL will re-
condition your motor while you drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles, and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL has been proved and
tested by over 100,000 users since 1934,
many owners having used NU-METAL
three and four times in the same engine.
NU-METAL comes to you in a separ-
ate tube for each cylinder, thus eliminat-
ing guess work. Municipal Councils,
Engineers, etc., use NU-METAL. Treatment
costs for 1,4, 6, 8 cylinders, 10/6, 30/-,
37/6, 45/-. Call, write, or phone MA7250.
Mail Orders post free. C.O.D.’s plus
Postal Charges.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return NU-
METAL to treat a Cylinder Engine.
I enclose Cheque—P.N.
Or please send me illustrated Folder
describing action of NU-METAL.
Name
Address
B. 16/3/’49
BRISTOL TRADING COMPANY
Ist Floor, Bristol House.
147 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. AAA 7250.
■P
- £ *
i=J
w
Ancestors of
an Industry
Sir James Dewar is best known for his
invention of the “Dewar” flask. This, in its
modern form of the “Thermos” and other vacuum
flasks, is found today in most households. Dewar
invented the flasks to aid him in his experiments
on the liquefaction of gases—he was the first to
liquefy hydrogen in bulk, and afterwards to
solidify it. Having liquefied various gases, he
found difficulty in keeping them cold enough to
prevent evaporation. The "Dewar” flask solved
his problem. A series of investigations which he
made into the properties of matter at low tempera-
tures has also proved of great importance to both
science and industry. Moreover, with Sir Frederick
Abel, Dewar was co-discoverer of cordite, a
valuable propellant explosive.
Dewar was a Scotsman born in 1842. He was
educated at Dollar Academy and the University
of Edinburgh, and continued his studies at Ghent.
Returning to England, he became Jacksonian pro-
fessor of natural experimental philosophy at Cam-
bridge in 1874, and two years later was appointed
Fullerian professor at the Royal
Institution. He was president
of the Chemical Society in 1897
and of the British Association in
1902.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
' IL/73/16 ———
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Though beaten, San Domenico ran
a great race in the Newmarket at
Flemington. He already had a stop-
ping burden of 8.9 before his Oak-
leigh Plate win lifted him to 9st., the
weight Ajax carried to success at the
same age (three-year-old) in 1938.
That was the heaviest burden ever
lumped by a three-year-old up the
gruelling Newmarket “straight-six”;
the next best was Cranbrook’s 8.12
back in 1888.
At any rate, San Domenico proved
himself the best sprinter now racing
here, of any age, and his perform-
ances all round say a lot for the
Australian sire Hua.
The winner was the aged Kinder-
scout gelding Reperio, making yet
another essay to win a Newmarket;
starting from close to the rails in
No. 5 (San Domenico was out on
the 20 mark), and getting up in the
last ten yards to land it by half a
length. Another Hua, Sentiment,
was third, a couple of lengths away,
hampered by bumping into some
trouble a furlong from home. The
time said all that needed saying of
the going—l.l3}; the record runs
were St. Ardents (1929) and All Veil
(1941), both clocking I.lo}.
The Excitement horse Russia, in
the twelve-furlongs Ercildoune Stakes,
proved himself the best of the dis-
tance runners. The old chestnut went
to the front early in the race, and
the further they went the further he
went away from them.
At the finish he was five lengths
clear, easing up, with Cronides and
Variation in the places, then Red
Fury, Rimfire and Seymour. Time,
on that heavy track, 2.34}.
The St. Leger was a very soft
snap for the South Australian colt
Comic Court, close on four lengths
ahead of Carbon Copy, with Clement
a distant third. The r&pective sires,
Powers Court, Helios and Law
Maker. Time, 2.59}.
The Le Grand Duc-Vocal colt Iron
Duke downed the good South Aus-
tralian performer St. Comedy and
Adela in the 7-furlongs Sires’ Produce
Stakes. Odds-on Lady Pirouette was
out of the money—fourth.
Huge fields started in both divi-
sions of the five-furlongs Hopeful
Stakes for two-year-olds, the first
going to the Caithness colt Winlake,
defeating the Beau Son filly Lady
Vere and the Dhoti filly Wooloowyn,
and some twenty-odd others; and the
other division to the Genetout colt
Centurion, an easy winner from the
Law Maker colt Not Proven and the
grey Rogerstone Castle filly Wmters-
moon.
The six-year-old Actor gelding
Cable News won the two-mile
Hurdle from John Masefield and
Majestic Fox; and Dashing Beau
(making, with Russia, two favorites
to land the money on the day) had
a half-neck victory in the twelve-
furlongs Brunswick Stakes from Stan-
dard Time and Mariner.
* * * *
One of the finishes which make
racing the thrill it is gave New
Cashmere victory in the V.R.C.’s
Australian Cup at Flemington on
Monday in a photo .-finish from
Saxonian, Golden Gem struggling on
in third place. Saxonian might have
been a trifle tired in the final burst;
he had run up to the leaders early in
the piece and led into the straight
from New Cashmere, with Golden
Gem and Royal Pageant close to
them. The winner is a Spearfelt,
whose get is always dangerous in
long races. In far better condition
than when racing in Sydney, New
Cashmere, who owed his win to
Bougoure’s vigor, cut the 17} fur-
longs out in course record time —3.43}.
* * * *
For the first time since 1942 rain
washed the horses off the Randwick
track and Sydney had no racing on
Saturday. It was a Warwick Farm
meeting, postponed to to-day (Wed-
nesday) ; the last postponement was a
Warwick Farm, meeting also.
*
Bert Osmond has seen his last race
at 79. Southern (N.S.W.) District
Racing Association secretary for
about 30 years, he lived in Coota-
mundra, but was well known on all
courses from Bega to Booligal and
both sides of the Murray.
* * * #
Sheffield Shield final flutter:
South Australia fizzed badly v.
Victoria at Adelaide last week. Down
75 on the first innings (229 to 154)
the local lads had three Vic. wickets
down for 62 when Sam Loxton rose
in the path and didn’t let up till
he had made 135 out of the side’s
328. Needing 403 (Bradman could
not bat because of a damaged ankle)
the South Australians were all out
for 132 —their poorest effort of the
season —giving Victoria an easy win
by 271 runs. Bowling honors went
to O’Neill (7 for 85) and Noblet (6
for 93) for S.A., and Baird (5 for
97) and Ring (4 for 45) for Vic.
Gross “gate” of the match was £916,
from which £B9 goes in tax and the
remainder to the Arthur Richardson
testimonial fund.
With first-class matches stowed
away for the season the performances
of players are worth a look over.
Moroney (897, av. 81.54) heads the
,batting; Morris (1064, av. 66.50)
leads the aggregates, with Hassett
(855, av. 61.07) and Hamence (680,
av. 42.50) next in order of high
tallies. Bradman’s was
216, av. 54.00. lan Johnson (43, av.
24.11) got most wickets, followed by
Lindwall (41, av. 19.58), Noblet (40,
av. 17.20), Walker (39, av. 15.30), L.
Johnson (34, av. 28.35), Ring (35,
av. 32.22) and Bill Johnston (32, av.
31.84). Except lan Johnson and Ring,
all the others mentioned are fast
bowlers, demonstrating how the new
ball after 40 overs has penalised the
slow and spin brethren.
* * * *
Lindsay Hassett, aged 35, who getp
the job of skipper of the Australian
team to S’Africa, has chased the
cricket-ball over a lot of the earth’s
surface. He was with the Services
XI through England, India and Aus-
tralia in 1945, was in the Australian
teams to Maoriland in 1946 and Eng-
land in 1938 and 1948, and has cap-
tained Victorian bands over much of
Australia. Hassett and Bradman hold
the third-wicket Test record (276)
made at Brisbane in 1946-7; and at
Portsmouth (Eng.) the dockers still
marvel at the energy of the sft.-’n’-a-
-bit warrant-officer who smote the
Royal Navy bowlers for a hurricane
189 in 1945. Besides being a brilliant
field Hassett can take a turn with the
ball, and is crammed with the sport-
ing grit which a captain should have
in the make-up—in fact, the chap
who’ll creditably wear the mantle of
Bradman, Darling, Noble, Trott,
Armstrong and other great Aus-
tralians.
* * * *
M.C.C. had to stage a whirlwind
effort to defeat S. Africa in the fifth
Test at Capetown last week. In their
second innings S. Africa closed at
187 for three wickets (they were
down 395 to 379 in the first knock),
and M.C.C. between tea and stumps
got the necessary 171 for the loss of
seven wickets —a win by three wic-
kets. The sporty declaration by S.
African captain Nourse, even though
it ended in defeat, was the sort of
gesture that makes Test cricket
worth while. England had won one
of the previous Tests and the other
three were drawn. Of 74 Test matches
played England has won 34, S. Africa
12, and 28 drawn,
* * * ♦
When it comes to piling up im-
mense cricket aggregates the Indians
are out on their own. In 1944-5
Bombay and Holkar made 2078 for
40 wickets at Bombay; but even this
mountain has been turned into a
molehill by Bombay (651 and 714
for eight wickets dec.) and Maharash-
tar (407 and 307 for four wickets),
still going strong wearing out scorers’
pencils with an aggregate of 2079 on
the board at the week-end. In Aus-
tralia the best is 1929 for 39 wickets
by N.S.W. and South Australia at
Sydney in 1925-6; the highest Test
figures are 1981 for 35 wickets by
England and South Africa at Durban
in 1938-9, and 1601 for 29 wickets
by England and Australia at Lord’s
in 1930.
* * * *
Either for souvenirs or because
everything has its value these days,
somebody got off with three laurel
wreaths intended to grace the necks
of amateur cyclists at Sydney’s Hen-
son Park the other night. The
wreaths had been laid on a lawn to
keep them fresh. Sid Patterson, who
won his fourth Australian title with
the 1000-metres sprint championship,
had to be satisfied with a sash.
Patterson and Jack ''Hoobin, both
Victorians, are likely to represent
Australia at the Copenhagen world
bike championships this year. Both
went to the Olympics last year and
later Patterson cleaned up the world’s
best in a 10-mile flutter at Brussels in
19.58.
* ♦ * ♦
Some of the local golf tourneys,
sponsored by people like Ampol and
McWilliams Wines —the latter firm is
“ Owzat ?”
staging a £2500 event at the Aus-
tralian (Sydney) at the end of this
month —are beginning to attract
visitors. A couple of Filipinos,
Tugot and Montes, are supposed to
be coming for the McWilliams show;
New Zealander Glading has also
entered. They’ll be up against Von
Nida, Pickworth, Cremin and some
more local talent. Tugot is the cove
who beat Von Nida at Manila this
year in the Far East championship.
If these Filipinos turn out as good
on the golf-course as they have done
in the boxing ring, they’ll be heard
from in future. The little brown men
have punched their way to some
order round the world; watching
them club their way round will be
something new.
* * # *
“Pongo”; Claims that Frank
Beaurepaire had forestalled Victoria’s
19-year-old swim-star John Marshall
in carrying off every Australian
national freestyle title in one season
are wrong. “Bogey” Beaurepaire
went very close to winning every
national freestyle championship in
one year several times, but he
was not a star sprinter, despite his
swimming under 59 for the distance
on at least one occasion. In season
1908-09 Beaurepaire won every
Australasian freestyle title except the
100 yards. Also, in 1921-22 he won
every Australian freestyle title except
the 100 yards. The only Australian
to win every national title from 100
yards to a mile is ex-Rose Bay
(Sydney) star Longworth, who created
the record in season 1911-12, and his
record will not be equalled unless
the A.S.U.A. restores the 1320 yards
event (last contested in 1925-26) to
the list of freestyle title events.
* * * *
Cleaner and more powerful punch-
ing earned Ern Jarvis (11. 1}) a popu-
lar points win over Rex Murphy
(10.12) at Leichhardt. Left hooks
floored Murphy twice, once for • “six”
in round three, and later as the
eighth was ending. Murphy, a
brother of welterweight champion
Tommy Burns (Tom’s real name,
Geoffrey Murphy), fought with greater
aggression than Jarvis, despite those
two knockdowns, but Jarvis often
landed solid slams at the ratio of
four to one, and a continued burst
of forceful fighting in round 12, the
last, gained him (a miracle at Leich-
hardt) an undisputed decision.


announce fine
FRENCH MOVEMENT
CHIMING
CLOCKS
£l2 5-
o
m
fS
We call this our clock of the Season.
It’s new ... a brand new case of
Queensland walnut veneer with gilt
figures, hands and bezel tastefully designed to
house a super, 8-day French movement. All four
quarters are chimed to the traditional cadence of
the Westminster Clock,. Length, 16| inches,
height, 8| inches. £l2/5/-.
Rx)uds
Second Floor
CORNER OF KING AND PITT STREETS. ’PHONE B\V 2721
TILLEY. LAMPS
(BURN ORD.I NARY KEROSENE)
V ' '■ /
THE MODERN FORM OF PORTABLE LIGHTING
v
iisl
ATTENTION TO DETAIL
is the characteristic of all British products
TILLEY LAMPS
are British made throughout at Hendon and Cricklewood, England
THE TILLEY LAMP COMPANY LTD. OF ENGLAND
London Offices and Showrooms: 33 SACKVILLE STREET, PICCADILLY, W.l
Australian Representatives:
T. H. BENTLEY, Pty. Ltd.,
123-125 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l
Britain’s finest tobaccos are now available
to discriminating Australian Pipe-Smokers
LA, nil
UIAW
CCOS
&
o
M
co
Kf*>
p,ot
■■
60^
01*8*
B*
■■
PU
Cool, si o tv-
burning vintage
leaf packed in
vacuum - sealed
tins to ensure
factory fresh-
ness.
S/X F//V&BIE/VPS~
f k and put U P in broken
flake form ready for the ninp
Also obtainable In Fine Cut.
imported
direct from
Scotland
v(rJ?S< anced j Wend of pure
yijf ln i a an d choice oriental
tobaccos, with the satisfying
and delightful aromf
iglfial Scottish mlx-
A balanced blend of Empire-
Virginia-type tobaccos,
cut from the cake and put un
the^pipe 11 ake torm ready for
Vmn( £ t!f nce<l b l e ?d of choice
Empire - grown Virginia - tvoe
and oriental tobaccos Madl
&°od old-fashioned way
of the original Scottish mix-
tures.
S balanced blend of Empire-
■■ ™^ Vir ? lnia l y P e tobaccos,
m AijJN m li lu i strength and ready
QV*' rubbed for the pipe. *
CURLIES. A balanced blend
?r, r .„,^?' ti P ns Empire - grown
■iß -a- Virginia-type tobaccos, rolled
]P nnd cut into discs ready for
the Each disc is a com
plete blend.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy.copy of Jock of the Bush-
velt by Sir Percy Fitzpatrick.—4583.
To buy The Bulletin Book of
Humorous Recitations. —4584.
To buy copy of The Secret Garden
by Wilfred Maillar.—-4585.
Information Sought.
(1) What is the nature of opals,
and how are they formed? (2) Are
they found elsewhere in the world but
Australia ?
(1) Opal is a silicate formation
forced millions of years ago in a
molten state from the depths of the
earth. During the cooling process it
is fractured microscopically, forming
minute prisms, which refract the light
and give the colors. (2) Small quan-
tities of light opal were found deep
in shale-pits in Hungary in Roman
times, but they do not produce opal
today. Small quantities of poor-
quality light opal are found in
Mexico, but they have not the vivid
color of Australian stones. Black
opal is found nowhere but at Light-
ning Ridge, N.S.W.
* # * *
Outline of general methods for
mushroom-growing ?
Allow a manure-and-straw mixture
to heat spontaneously; turn the heaps
several times at intervals; add warm
water if necessary during turning, but
avoid making- heaps too wet. Place
the fermented material (compost) in
shallow beds and tramp down.
Temperature of beds should rise
slightly. When temperature falls,
insert the mushroom spawn. A week
or so later add a layer of casing soil.
Maintain the beds in a cODl, moist
atmosphere. Guard against attack by
pests and disease.
• * * *
How to eradicate ants in a lawn ?
It may be found necessary to use
either carbon bisulphide (highly ex-
plosive) or calcium-cyanide dust
(highly poisonous). If the former is
used one or two tablespoonfuls may
be poured down the openings in the
nest, which should then be covered
over' with wet earth or wet bags. The
gas penetrates into the nest and kills
the ants. The calcium cyanide dust
is blown into the nest openings with
an insect-powder blower. The en-
trances are then covered over. In a
recent experiment carried out in
N.S.W. a dust containing 10 p.c.
benzene hexachloride (“Gamraexane”)
was sprinkled on a large mound of
the meat-ant ( Indomyrmex delectus),
and proved highly destructive to the
ants.
*'* * *
How to destroy bandicoots ? Would
a preparation sprayed on lawns help
to keep them down ?
Spring rabbit-tVaps are sometimes
used, as are also poison-baits, but
the bandicoots would probably find
things more attractive than the baits
in the garden. Nothing is known
which can just be sprayed on to a
lawn to render it unattractive to the
animals. Perhaps a dog might be of
some help in keeping them out. As
bandicoots are protected animals in
N.S.W., it is necessary to obtain a
permit from the Chief Secretary’s
Department before any may be de-
stroyed.
'** * *
How to prevent the development of
“rope” in bread?
By spreading on the surface, after
baking, a mixture of two parts of
butter to one part of lard by weight,
plus a little borax. The borax must
be finely powdered, sufficient to cover
a threepenny bit being added to each
pound of the butter-lard mixture, and
well stirred in. The mixture should
be applied hot.
♦ * ♦ #
When was the basic wage first de-
clared in the Commonwealth?
The idea was propounded as far
back as 1890 by the Queensland
Premier, but it was not until 1907
that the first basic wage, as such, was
declared by a court in Australia. This
declaration was made by Justice
Higgins, president of the Common-
wealth Arbitration Court, and is
popularly known as the Harvester
Judgment—it was determined in con-
nection with H. V. McKay’s Sunshine
Harvester works. The rate of wage
declared in this case was 7s. a day
or £2 2s. a week for Melbourne, and
considered reasonable for “a family
about five.”
* * * *
Information concerning the origin
of the Oath of Hippocrates? Is it
accepted universally by the medical
profession ?
It is generally accepted that “The
Oath” was written by the Greek
physician Hippocrates (about 460
8.c.). To this oath his pupils were
required to subscribe, and to it also
many succeeding generations of phy-
sicians have since subscribed. Al-
though there may not be general
agreement with the wording of the
oath in its entirety, there can be no
doubt _ that the general principles
which it contains are the secret of its
universal validity for all times. As
long as the profession of medicine is
an honorable one, and as long as
there is any reverence left in human
nature for the old and beautiful, this
venerable “counsel of perfection”
will’ hold a place in the esteem of
medical men.
* * * *
How can I keep my paint-brushes
clean? Left in water or turpentine
they remain limp, but seem to lose
shape.
Brushes should never be left in
turpentine only, as the spirit roughens
the bristles. Do not stand the brushes
on end. Bore a hole in each brush-
handle and suspend the brush in
water so that it hangs free, but keeps
the bristles entirely under water. The
best container for brushes is made
from a watertight box with nails
driven through the sides, far enough
apart to take one brush on each nail
without touching. The hole bored in
the brush-handle fits over the nail
and the water covers the bristles,
which must not touch bottom of
box. When on paintwork, wipe sur-
plus paint off brush (but do not clean
it) and hang in box.
Brief Answers.
J.R. Melbourne Cup winners to
carry No. 1 saddlecloth were Carbine
(1890), Poitrel (1920), Phar Lap
(1930), Peter Pan (1934) and Russia
(1946) A.8.N.: That white sub-
stance on the leaves of chrysanthe-
mum plants is mildew caused by wet
weather or overwatering. Spray with
lime-sulphur (trade strength) in the
early morning and the sun will assist
in the clean-up. During treatment
mulch about -the plants and withhold
moisture 1.R.: Hubert Opperman
rode from Sydney to Melbourne (567
miles) in 39hr. 42rain. 12sec. in 1929;
Kalgoorlie to Perth (375 miles) in
25hr. 19min. in 1933; Brisbane to
Sydney (651 miles) in 47hr. lOmin. in
1936; and Fremantle to Sydney (2751
miles) in 13 days lOhr. llmin. in
1937 N.F.: Apply for suitable
literature at the Qld. Public Library,
Brisbane. There are many publica-
tions dealing with the coloring and
polishing of cabinet timbers
J.H.8.: Doubt whether anything can
be done if the paint is as bad as you
say, but in any case -the best people
to advise you what to do would be
the firm which made the paint....
J.H.H.: Try J. C. Ludowici & Sons,
117 York-street, Sydney, and Alex
Johnstone, 10a Alice-street, Newtown
(N.5.W.)... .A.W.: The cost of a
second-class adult ticket from Cardiff
(N.S.W.) to Armidale (N.S.W.) is
£1 14s. Id. single and £2 ss. sd.
return... .W.W.: According to Ruff’s
Guide all measurements in England
are made from the centre of the
course, but from the literature at
hand no trace can be found of the
manner in which courses are measured
in America EJ.D.: The lines are
from James Hogg’s “The Skylark.”
J.D.: Col. J. H. B. Field, Illa-
warra, Norwood, Castlemaine (Vic.),
may be able to furnish details of the
“Breathing Hill of Castlemaine”
F.G.C.: N.S.W. Local Government
Ordinance 46, Part 5, Section 11, pro-
vides that every water-closet con-
structed wholly, or partly, within a
building shall be constructed m such
a building so that one of its sides
at least shall be on an external wall.
From the sketch submitted it would
appear that the window could be
placed on the external wall, but would
not comply with the local-govern-
ment ordinance F.C.; The next
“S. M. Herald” novel competition
closes on May 31, 1949. Prizes are
first, £2000; second, £1000; third,
£SOO C.L.: Populations were:
Greater Newcastle 127,138, Greater
Wollongong 62,960, Broken Hill
27,054, Blue Mountains 21,316. Mait-
land 19,151, Goulburn 15,991, Wagga
15,340, Lismore 15,214, Lithgow
14,461 and Albury 14,412... .J.M.;
Get in touch with International
Combustion Pty., Ltd., 247 George-
street, or William F. Stephenson Pty.,
Ltd., 58 Pitt-street—both Sydney, or
Babcock and Wilcox, Ltd., Regent’s
Park (N.5.W.)....G.A.G.: (1) In-
come-tax, £153, and social-services
contribution, £75, (2) £1385.


—and piles of bedding and boxes, filled
the rest of the truck.
What shrieks from the women when
the truck jolted to its sudden stop! They
all piled out an'd began flinging down
bundles and bedding, and kits of potatoes
and pipis, and tin-billies, and gramo-
phones, and lengths of rope, and odd
shoes, all in a jumble.
What a shouting there was! Some of
the kids began to howl, and the goories
scavenged about the neighbors’ gardens
and cocked their legs against the gate-
posts.
J T wasn’t long before the older women
* crowded into the house while the
young men lounged, smoking and laugh-
ing, on the front steps. Everyone in the
block could hear the shrill greetings in
the sick-room, the cries of surprise and
sympathy, the questions, the reassurances.
The old lacly kept crying, “All right,
Lizzie, now you all right!”
A younger woman, her voice rising
with amazement, repeated again and
again, “Look at her! How skinny she
is! Look at -her! ”
Lizzie could be heard weeping. With
relief or dismay, no one could tell.
Then the taking charge of the house!
The women jostled one another in the
tiny kitchenette.
“No wonder Lizzie sick,” they said.
“Who could ever make decent kai in a
place like this, eh?”
They piled their food-kits and cooking-
tins all over the place and in the pas-
sage, while the older children ransacked
the cupboards. They scotched strawberry
jam and fruit-cake, and trailed about in
Lizzie’s silk dresses and spring hats.
“Haere, haere, haere mai! Come and
get the kai!” they chanted.
Soon the women hallooed to the young
men, who set to work putting up a tent
of sorts against the side of the house,
nailing posts to the weatherboards, stak-
ing it down amid the flowerbeds. Then
they hung blankets and mattresses on the
side fence to air.
When all was set, the two young men
and the smart young girl roamed up and
down the street, the fellow with the
panama hat strumming a guitar and sing-
ing “Don’t Fence Me In,”
Some of the youngsters roamed, too,
hopping on and off the garden walls and
staring back at the neighbors whom they
caught peeping through their windows.
Oh, the neighbors’ exclamations of
annoyance and disgust! Furtively, they
asked each other’s advice over the back-
yard fences, and tried to decide should
they report such goings-on to the police
or to the sanitary-inspector.
MR. BRICE thought that, all things
considered, the police would be
better fitted to handle the situation—
firmly, but with dignity.
Mrs. Bickerstaff favored direct action.
“Get the menfolk together and run the
lot of them out of town,” she said.
At that the men hummed and ha’d a
good deal. They suddenly found they
were already late for appointments down
town. And, in any case, they heartily
disliked Mrs. Bickerstaff.
Mrs. Brice insisted that, anyway, she
would have the sanitary-inspector con-
demn those wretched dogs; and thus in-
curred the secret enmity of Mrs. Comber,
who was S.P.C.A., and who had been
giving the dogs mutton-chops on the
quiet.
As soon as she had tidied her house,
Mrs. Watson hurried to Pollen’s Building
and tipped her husband the news.
“You ought to get rid of that man
Walker,” she told him.
Mr, Watson was evasive. “Well —er —
yes,” he said. “You know he’s very
useful, though,”
But in the end he promised to think of
an excuse for turning Walker out.
WHEN the boy John came home from
school that afternoon he nearly
howled to find three babies in his room,
in his bed, dirty little brats. He was dis-
gusted. He wished he would die. He
slunk off to the woodshed, where he
sulked, while a tiny Maori girl peeped at
him through the crack of the door.
Meanwhile the old woman had chucked
out all the bottles of chemist’s medicine,
and was setting about curing Lizzie with
good old Maori remedies. She boiled
mixtures of leaves and roots that stained
and pitted Lizzie’s best aluminium sauce-
pans. But Lizzie hardly cared a jot
about anything now. She swallowed all
the brews of bitter herbs without a word.
Seated at her bedside the old woman
said, “You come back to the kainga,
Lizzie. There you have help all the time,
from the time you are born till the time
you go to your grave. You never ever
without all the help you need. Not like
the pakeha, he shut himself up by him-
self, pretend he can do everything by
himself, never help anyone, never get
any help. You come back to the kainga,
Lizzie.”
But Lizzie only moaned.
“No, no,” she muttered. “I’ve got to
think of John.”
Pa TT . „ •, i ~ „
AH! said the old woman. Pah!
When Tom Walker came home
from the office m a hurry, haymg heard
of these doings, he was furious. He
sidled about among the baggage, jostled
by all and sundry in his own house, not
looking at or speaking to anyone in par-
ficular, but expostulating all the time.
My wife has the doctor He says she
needs quiet. She need to be left alone.
You people better go home. Go on, you
better go home.”
“No, no. Tommy Walker,” the old
woman cried from the bedroom. “You
be quiet yourself. You no good, eh?”
“What you mean, I no good?” Tom
Walker asked angrily, pausing a moment
by the door,
“What I mean?” the old woman jeered
at him. “Why’s Lizzie no more kids,
eh? A few more would do her good.”
Looking as though he would choke,
Tom Walker tried to push his way out to
the back verandah, but tripped over
several small children playing on the
floor. The women in the kitchen called
him a clumsy brute and told him to clear
out.
No, he could make no impression on
that mob. In the end, seeing the whole
crowd meant to stay, he left the house.
He and John slept on a stretcher in the
woodshed.
ON the second day, Lizzie got out of
bed, “I’m all right,” she said.
“Oh, good! good! We cure you,
Lizzie!” cried the old lady.
“I tell you I’m all right by myself,”
Lizzie said wearily.
“Oh, we stay and see you get better,
Lizzie.”
“I want my own house to myself,”
Lizzie said,
“That all right, Lizzie.”
“Well, clear out, all of youse,” Lizzie
shouted, banging the table. “Don’t you
understand? Clear out!”
“Oh, you don’t want us, eh?” said the
old lady, in a changed tone. “You want
the pakeha dope, eh? Oh, well, we go.”
AS soon as they could make themselves
realise that she really meant it, they
packed up and went. They piled all the
baggage on to the old truck and clam-
bered aboard, shouting and- singing and
crying, cranked her till she bounced on
her overladen springs, exploded into life,
lurched forward out of the gutter, and
rattled out of the street, back to the pa.
“We cure her and that’s her thanks,
eh?” The women looked at each other
as though they couldn’t believe it.
“Oh, she’s gone bad, like the pakeha,”
they said.
Then at last, as the backfiring of the
old Ford grew fainter, Lizzie knew she’d
be left alone; alone and independent till
she died.
And John could get back to his lesson
books, and, chewing his pencil, make up
his mind to amount to something in the
world.
And Tom Walker could continue to
go to his cubby-hole, and to wash his
hands, and be an office-boy on the cheap,
glumly dawdling in and out of Pollen's
Building.
But, with the neighbors, the Walkers
never will be quite such nice people as
they once were.
they spoke on many things, but never the
crop. Roco thought he detected a slight
furtiveness, a secretiveness not customary.
However, he felt that if he had indeed
sold his soul to the Devil then he was
in a large company of those he knew,
and he became happy again. By the
time he had returned to his farm he was
again gleeful.
The crop intrigued him, as the days
passed. For corn it was strangely un-
responsive to applications of liquid
manure. It maintained its delicate color,
it refused to grow tall and knotted in
the stem. It matured early, and, stunted
as it appeared to be, it began to flower.
Roco was almost beside himself with
excitement as the cobs formed. He
longed to pluck one and taste, but the
shadow of the tall man followed and he
did not dare.
Why, if he so much as tasted the stuff
he might be changed into a queer crea-
ture, might disappear as quickly as the
black-coated man had done. He, Roco,
might be snatched from the world of
beautiful vegetables and luscious maidens.
Oh, thought Roco, as he stared at his
maturing cobs.
THEN, one, day, it seemed that every-
one spoke about the crop. They
asked Roco how his was, and he asked
them about theirs. Once mentioned, the
subject naturally became the leading
topic of the days.
The man in the black suit and hat was
not mentioned but they did talk
about the crop, tracing its strange growth.
They were proud of the new plant, but
a trifle dubious, too.
Romano Ferrari fought with his
brother Benito over the crop.
Romano said it should be fed to the
cows, but Benito asked Romano how he
would like to see the cows running over
the hill, racing to Hell, as it were, be-
cause of the strange fodder. Ho, and
who knew if the cow might not turn
into a man, or, more properly, a woman?
At this last suggestion Romano sadly
gave way and the crop stood.
Toni it was who exploded the mystery,
or rather who exploded the awe in which
the crop was held. He tasted a cob, or,
more correctly, attempted to taste a cob.
He brought the plucked husked fruit to
Roco and they stared at it. Their gleam-
ing black pearls had returned.
“Then we should have known, Roco,”
said Toni, “that what was sown would
come again as seed.”
“Yes,” said Roco sorrowfully.
And his sorrow was echoed through-
out the village. Martini Castari, who was
a violent man in some moods, was angered
almost to the point of tearing his crop
from the soil, but that last wisp of fear
held him back from the action.
Roco had an idea, and he raced to his
shed, returning with a hammer and a
piece of iron. In the village, outside the
post-office, he demonstrated for an in-
terested crowd. “See,” he said dramati-
cally, and he brought down the hammer
on a black seed. The elusive thing shot
sideways, and despite efforts could not
even be cracked.
“Magic,” said Benito, and brother
Romano agreed sadly.
Magic, they all thought, but that
opinion lost its power in the rising in-
dignation, for who wanted hard indi-
gestible black corn? If only they had
remained undeceived by that long black
hat. So it came out, the details of the
stranger’s visit. How he had popped up,
seemingly from nowhere. How he had
likewise disappeared. Someone seemed
to remember having seen him in a small
yellow car, but they shook their heads
when a car was mentioned. No car had
that man.
THEN, when they had decided to
uproot the crop, and held back only
because of the remaining vestiges of fear,
the tall man appeared again, not in black
this time, and certainly not in that out-
landish hat.
Very smart he appeared, in plum-
colored suit and hat, and with shiny
shoes, the disguise of the Devil surely,
such smartness. Also, he was in a small
yellow car, from which he alighted at
the post-office when he went to see Mr.
Spiermont.
Mr. Spiermont immediately spread the
news. That night, in the hall, there was
to be a meeting. The man in the plum
suit would speak. All were to come.
Oh, all would come. Roco would
come, his dark eyes flashing, ready, angry
words upon his lips. Toni would be
there, and. Romano and Benito, and
Martini Castari, and the hundreds of
others. They would wish to ask ques-
tions of this fine fellow.
When it came to eight o’clock there
they all were assembled, men, women and
children, the children gabbling and
shouting, the adults uttering threats, all
speaking in their liquid language until
the man appeared on the stage with
Mr. Spiermont, and Mr. Spiermont intro-
duced his friend as plain Mr. Johnson.
Plain Mr. Johnson, looking very far
from plain, and quite mysterious really,
stood and raised a hand which hushed
the storm of protest into less than a still,
small voice. Nor did he speak. He
simply lifted on to the table a contrap-
tion which turned out to be a burner.
On this he placed a large iron pot, and
into the pot he put nothing—as yet. He
lit the burner, and when the pot was
heated took up the lid and poured into it
—the hard blagfc grain.
There was a sigh of surprise. With
a peaceful smile the tall man in the plum
suit replaced the lid. The audience waited
in tense silence.
< ‘ D OP! ” it began, like a midget can-
i non, the noise inside the pot.
“Pop! Pop!” it repeated. Astonishment
froze on the watchers’ faces. Then,
“Pop! Pop! Pop! Pop!” And finally,
before the tall man raised the lid, “Pop-
pop-pop-pop-popopopopop! ”
There was an “Ah” of astonishment
released like an expiring tyre-tube, and all
craned their necks to see. The man
threw some fluid into the pot, closed the
lid another moment, raised it, and took
from it ladles of foaming white stuff.
This he placed on a plate, and walking
down the stage steps advanced into the
audience.
Children accepted his offer with
alacrity. They showed their delight at
the taste of it, too, and the adult Italians,
as delighted as their offspring, made
grabs at the white offering. Smiles broke
over formerly stern countenances. Roco
was transported into his highest heaven.
Toni beside him was silently pleased.
Benito and Romano actually wept.
Then the tall man returned to the stage.
He aocepted their enthusiasm with gentle
politeness. He patted the pockets of his
plum coat, cleared his voice, and began
to speak.
“I am from the Paradise Popular Con-
fections,” he said, announcing thereby his
descent from heaven. “And my com-
pany is interested in this popcorn you
have so gladly grown. Now popcorn is
needed badly today, and Paradise Popu-
lar Confections are prepared to take every
grain you have grown and, I might add,
at a reasonable price.”
NOT many understood every word, but
they knew what he meant. They
could sell their grain. They would get
a good price. Oh, that was wonderful.
They beamed on plain Mr. Johnson.
Truly he was a saint of God or his holy
company.
“Poppa-com,” said Benito Ferrari in-
credulously.
“Poppa-da,” said Toni, strangely
moved.
“We getta da poppa verry quickly,”
said Roco, whispering.
They scarcely waited until the man had
ceased speaking, or to hear the blessings
poured down upon him, the effusive
thanks conveyed through Mr. Spier-
mont. Both gardeners sped to their
farms and began stripping the cobs. Bag
after bag they filled, and with no thought
of sleep they worked on.
Nor were they alone in their idea.
Lights dotted the countryside through-
out the night, but none worked as fever-
ishly as the two friends.
“For,” Roco said to Toni when they
met in the hall, both with heavily laden
carts, “who is to know if the Mister
Johnson will want all the corn?”
And Toni, who knew markets, and hatl!
himself been caught in a glut or two,
shrugged his shoulders with only slight
regret for those who would come late.
Each, wearily taking turn-about to
guard their positions in this queue of
opportunity, would mutter wonderingly to
himself, “Poppa corn. Poppa corn, eh?”
and it was Roco, almost asleep with
fatigue, who seemed to see the tall man
in black peering at the precious grain
within the palm of his hand, and he mut-
tered sleepily, and with the same wonder
pervading Toni, “Poppa corn, Toni. Just
think. Poppa-da.”
“Now will you believe I’ve been fishing ?"


LEAVE IT TO A. M. L. & F. !
What a relief to know the whole problem can be handed over to A.M.L.&P.
with complete confidence!
Whatever it is—the . sale and purchase of properties, agistment, shortage of
essential station supplies and machinery, the sale of fat stock on a touchy
market, and the thousand and one other worries of the man on the land—
the •solution is easy—“leave it to A.M.L.&P."
85 Years in the Service of the Man on the Land.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance Coy. Ltd.
Inc. in England in 1863,
4 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches at Newcastle, Wagga, Moree, Henty and Hay.
• A 18.22
dfd
Famous British
ENGINES
are
NOW
AVAILABLE
at
REDUCED
PRICES
'/ For immediate delivery contact
BUZACOTT-WOLSIELEY PTY. LTD.
’PHONE: MA 6311 7-11 MARKET ST., SYDNEY
LYS
PROOF
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
.. m mm
mm
mm
MM
s ■■ .
u
w
m
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Reg’d Office & Works, Blackwall Pt. Road, Five Dock.
City Office, 17 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY
"LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING. ETC,
Improving Frozen Beef.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO GRAZCOS."
“Chappie”; When a number
of visiting scientists, including
Dr. E. H. Callow (Low Tem-
perature Research Station, Cam-
bridge, England) and N. E.
Holmes (British Food Ministry),
attended a meeting of the United
Graziers’ Association in Queens-
land, cattlemen present stressed
the need for scientific investiga-
tion to find a means of defrost-
ing frozen beef which would
leave it equal to chilled beef
when delivered to the British
housewife.
With the slow turn-round of
ships Queensland cattlemen fore-
see danger in shipping chilled beef
when the end of meat-rationing
in Britain makes it possible. The
journey from North Queensland
to London, via Melbourne, is
very near the limit it is possible
to transport chilled beef, and
before the war it had to be sold
on arrival in London as quickly
as possible. This position will
be accentuated, and in any case
it is always possible for the
Argentine to arrange delivery of
a consignment of chilled beef at
the same time as an Australian
shipment arrives. The price of
the Australian article is then de-
pressed, as it must be sold with-
out delay, whereas, if necessary,
the Argentine shipment can be
held. Queensland cattlemen
think it should be possible for
scientists to improve the defrost-
ing of frozen beef, particularly
in the elimination of or a reduc-
tion in the drip, and so enable
the article to retain its bloom
and palatability.
Queensland cattlemen want to
market younger beef, and today
a proportion of Queensland
cattle are marketed at three and
a half to four years of age, but,
in various ways, chilled beef is
much more expensive to handle
than frozen beef. Graziers fore-
see that, in addition to this, they
are likely to get many headaches
from hold-ups on the wharves if
they cannot find some improved
means of defrosting.
In some meat-trade circles
there is a feeling that the dif-
ferential price paid for chilled
beef before the war might not be
paid when the trade is resumed,
and this makes it even more
imperative that something be
done to improve the frozen pro-
duct. It is not suggested, of
course, that further experiments
in the chilling of beef should be
dropped, but that the scientists
should concentrate more on im-
proving defrosting.
Footrot.
“Myrrhee”: Although the
trouble is more in evidence
during the wetter months, it is
best attacked in summer, when
most sheep normally recover
spontaneously. But th.ere are
always some which don’t com-
pletely throw off infection, and,
unless cured, they’ll reinfect the
flock when wet conditions come
again.
G. Nicol, B.V.Sc., recom-
mends, at the height of summer,
examination of the hooves of all
sheep and isolation of those
showing old areas of infection
or superficial lesions between the
digits. Thoroughly pare mis-
shapen hooves and put the sheep
through a 10 p.c. formalin foot-
bath every two or three days
until the trouble clears up.
Keep sufferers isolated from the
healthy animals for a further
two or three weeks, by which
time footrot should be elimi-
nated. Put healthy sheep through
a 5 p.c. formalin or 10 p.c. blue-
stone footbath as a preventive.
Wool Like Gold.
“Baa Baal”: Progenitors of
the sheep which provided the
210 d.-a-bale wool at the Laun-
ceston (Tas.) wool sales—a world-
record price—were smuggled
from Saxony to Tasmania 122
years ago by Mrs. John Fur-
longe and her two sons.
Mrs. Furlonge arrived in Hobart
Town in 1826 and established
the stud, now owned by R. R.
Taylor, at Campbell Town,
whence came the clip. It
is remarkable that no out-
side blood .has been intro-
duced. The previous world
record of 16s. 4d. a pound was
established by John MacArthur’s
Spanish Merino flock (one bale
only) at the first commercial sale
of fine wool exported from Aus-
tralia in England in 1807. Mr.
Taylor’s wool was bought for
France. The runner-up (194 d.)
was wool from Connorville
Estate, Cressy, near Launceston,
where the King and Queen were
to have stayed on their visit to
Tasmania this year.
Erosion on Poor Soils.
“W. Court”: Erosion’s effects
ar« worst on impoverished or
worked-out soils. Vegetation
grows slowly on poor land ;
even when well established it
may not provide an effective
anti-erosion cover. In addition,
crops on hungry land require
more cultivation than those on
rich land, and this excessive dis-
turbance of the topsoil promotes
erosion. Many soils are in need
of humus and organic matter,
because present-day farming
methods leave very little stubble
to- be turned in. Green-manure
crops, stable manure and spells
under grass provide a remedy.
Fertilisers defeat soil erosion
because although they do not
build up the soil they do hurry
crops along and make them
cover loose, cultivated paddocks.
Feeding Dairy-cattle.
“Rooster”: In general it may
be classified under three head-
ings: (1) Pasture-feeding, (2)
supplementary and (3) hand-
feeding. In relation to pastures
the aim should be to increase the
nutritional value, providing
where possible a year-round
source of rich foodstuff. Here
in Gippsland, where the average
rainfall is 30in. annually, a set
procedure is adopted. ' Four
principles are involved: (a) Pro-
vision of improved pastures con-
taining winter-growing grasses
There, boys—always told you his Bark Was Worse than
his bite.”
and clovers; ( b ) topdressing,
renovation, subdivision and rota-
tion of pastures ; (c) cutting and
conserving of surplus growth ;
(d) provision of supplementary
crops for feeding off and fodder
storage.
As pasture matures, protein
content is reduced; the defi-
ciency must be made up with
young crops or conserved rough-
age, if high production is to be
maintained. On mature, sparse
pasture, the amount eaten per
head may fall to about 501 b.,
which is below maintenance
ration. Good cereal hay or
silage or grazing on fodder crops
will allow average producers to
'give their maximum without
draining body reserves or losing
weight. For high producers
grass and clover-hay or silage,
lucerne or lucerne silage, or
grazing, is necessary. If rough-
age isn’t available, protein con-
centrates, such as oil or meat-
meals, can usually be fed
economically.
In drought seasons, or during
hard winter months, it becomes
necessary to wholly hand-feed.
The basis of economical feeding
is to feed the cattle according to
size and. production with the
cheapest balanced rations. I
would advise close collaboration
with the herd-tester in this, as
each cow’s record can be
accurately logged. For an aver-
age-size dairy cow (10001 b. live-
weight), the maintenance ration
is 151 b. to 201 b. dry matter,
0.61 b. protein equivalent and
61b, starch equivalent. This is
increased in proportion accord-
ing to the yield of the cow. An
“average” cow would yield no
more than 2gal. to 3gal. A cow
giving 3gal. to 4gal. daily would
have almost a double ration.
Consult a good textbook on
standard rations. I’ve proved
that, despite initial outlay, it pays
to feed dairy-cattle scientifically
under all conditions.
Air-spraying Pests.
“Carlyle”: A 95 p.c. kill of
grubs infesting a flax crop at
Hamilton (Vic.) resulted from
spraying a gammexane-D.D.T.
powder preparation from an air-
craft. The plane flew a few
feet above the crop and treated
a 30ft. strip in one operation,
powder waste being prevented
by controls operated by the
pilot.
Peas and other crops similarly
affected may be treated: re-
quirements are a skilful pilot
and still air, and the latter is ob-
tained by performing the opera-
tion before sunrise or on a
moonlight night. Co-operation
between neighboring farmers
would make the treatment an
economical proposition and do
much to prevent the wholesale
spread of pests. An experienced
pilot is essential. East-West Air
Line, of Tamworth (N.S.W.),
did the job at Hamilton.
Maintenance of Small
Generators.
“Radian”: Practically all
breakdowns trace back to a
simple fault that could Have been
remedied before the trouble de-
veloped. For instance, heat is
required to burn out a winding,
and some fault must occur to set
up dangerous heating—the real
task is to anticipate that fault.
Points at which faults commonly
originate are i_a) armature-
spindle bearings, (b) commutator
and brush gear, ( c) electrical
connections.
Examination of any electrical
generator will show that only
minimum clearance is allowed
between the armature and pole-
pieces which carry the field wind-
ings. Progressive wear in the
bearings will steadily reduce this
clearance until eventually the
armature must ride on the pole-
pieces, excessive heating will be
set up, and without prompt cor-
rection the generator will burn
out. Bearings should be checked
at regular intervals and either ad-
justed or replaced immediately
wear is observed.
Three common types of bear-
ing are in use—ring-oiled, ball-
race and bronze bush fitted with
felt pads. Ring-oiled, in which
a bronze or white metalled bear-
ing is lubricated by means of
rings which rotate with the
spindle and pick up oil from a
well beneath, are seldom used
on small high-speed machines.
On larger, slower-running gene-
rators, this system is effective
and easily maintained. A fre-
quent check should be made to
see that there is sufficient oil in
the wells and .that the rings are
turning with the spindle.
Ballraces are probably the
most trouble-free type and also
the most common. Once the
races have been properly packed
with a suitable lubricant and the
seals are known to be effective
no further attention should be
required for at least two years.
Major risk with this type—a
somewhat remote one —is that a
race will collapse and possibly
wreck the entire generator.
Bronze bushes with felt-pad
lubricators are fitted only to very
small • machines. The felt pads,
which act as combined reservoirs
and wipers, are often spring-
loaded so that they will maintain
light contact with the spindle.
Pads should be inspected occa-
sionally to ensure that they are
clean and otherwise effective.
This type of bearing is usually
equipped with small oil-cups on
top, the pads being situated
underneath in a tubular retainer.
Cleanliness and efficient lub-
rication mean long bearing life,
and if they’re maintained there is
no reason to anticipate trouble in
years of running.
Generator types are so many
and varied that it would be im-
possible to mention suitable lub-
ricants here. If any dftfbt arises
on this point one of the major
oil companies should be con-
sulted.
Several outside factors can
lead to rapid bearing wear —a
driving-belt that is too tight,
generator out of line with drive,
or a bent armature spindle. Bent
spindles are seldom met, but it
is a point worth checking if the


Established 18G8
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
BEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS v
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS. BOOKBINDERS
COLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS ! * PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
**JACKSUIS” BRISBANE
oSaiwvA^r
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
SMOKERS
PIPE TOBACCOS THAT ARE
BLENDED TO GIVE
SATISFACTION TO All.,
HOUSE OF MURPHY. A blend of
the highest grade of leaf to give a
cool smoke of satisfaction that men
prefer. 22/- per lb. Posted.
A.A.A. HILI/TOP. A blend of
Australian, American and African.
20/- per lb. Posted,
WINSTON READY RUBBED
CIGARETTE TOBACCO. Greatly
improved by better blending of
mature leaf. 24/- per lb. Posted.
Special Quotes to Retailers jor lots 20lb.
weight or over.
Write to: Cash Order Dept.,
Hillman Trading Co.,
Commercial Road, Brisbane.
Postage paid on Cash with order.
Postage extra on 0.0. D. Orders.
KEEP YOUR ENGINE
Mobiloil clean
WITH
m
m
IT GIVES..
• A Cleaner Engine
• Perfect Lubrication
• Longer Engine Life
• Improved Performance
• Quicker Starting
• Complete Protection at All
Speeds & Temperatures
fd
FRENCH
ICorn Cure
Cures Callouses and Corns
Avmlnhle at
I Anthony Horderns’
"HANDY HINTS
FOR THE FARM"
Price 1/- from Newsagents, or
1/2 £ posted from Bulletin Office,
252 George Street, Sydney.
Technical Data
HOW TO BUILD A MODERN
POULTRY SHED
mi
5^7
Thinking of building new poultry sheds when
supplies of galvanized iron are more freely
obtainable? Then let the SERVICE DEPT.,
John Lysaght (Australia) Pty. Ltd., help you
by supplying data sheets and full informatipn
on the construction of approved types of poultry
sheds. Offered with the compliments df the company
this assistance is part of a comprehensive technical
advisory service that is now available to all who use
—or plan to use the company's products . . .
There is a
YSAGHT
steel sheet for every building need
/
%
ss.
/
(7
'4;i
John tysaght (Australia) Ply. Ltd.
... «f - t;4* .■
fM,.,
«SW.’ '
Sydney • Melbourne . Brisbane
Adelaide • Fremantle
U 94-7507
generator has met with an acci-
dent where a bearing has broken
up, or armature jammed on the
pole-pieces.
Queen Bees.
“Bumble”: The ideal is a
strong, vigorous, well-developed
queen, and the strain from which
she is bred should have the
attributes of thriving numerical
strength, high productivity, sub-
dued swarming instinct, reason-
able gentleness and longevity of
workers. The qualities, apart
from the temper, are pretty well
inseparable in a topnotch
colony; they are mentioned
separately as a guide to where
to look for flaws. Select the
best colonies of an established
strain for the larvae from which
the queens are to be raised and
allow provision for drone-raising
for mating. Drones from lesser
hives should be excluded as far
as possible.
The batches of a half-dozen
queen-cups, fastened in frames
of comb having brood, honey
and pollen, are left in any popu-
lous hive overnight for drawing
into shape by the bees, then
grafted with larvae in a very
early stage and given to a queen-
less colony for starting. A day
later the prepared frames should
be hung in the supers of strong
colonies, the queens excluded to
the bottom chambers. When at
the ripe stage preparatory to the
new queens emerging, the cells
are dispersed among the colonies
or nuclei mating-hives.
Make a point of removing un-
wanted queens 24 hours before
introducing ripe queen-cells or
mated queens. Using queen-
cells in this fashion is pretty
near foolproof, but there is a
fair delay till the queen has
mated and begins laying. It
won’t matter greatly where the
hive is well stocked with brood,
and the bees do not resent intro-
duction of a queen-cell.
In introducing laying queens
there are many methods, which
depend largely on the skill with
which they are practised. The
queen-cage with candy stopper
is a simple and good one; by
the time the bees have gnawed
through the candy they are
ready to accept the newcomer.
The hive shouldn’t be opened
again for at least a week. Tak-
ing no chances with a really
valuable queen, a certain method
is to shake all the bees from two
or three combs having a good
quantity of* hatching brood and
place these in a super over a
flywire screen, arranging the
combs to the centre, where they’ll
be kept in the rising warmth of
the lower chamber. Introduce
the queen above. The newly-
hatched bees will not molest her
while her odor is becoming
acceptable to the colony, a mat-
ter of a week when the hive
queen has been removed earlier.
Science and Farming.
“Rooster”: Victoria’s Minister
for Agriculture intends to estab-
lish in the western district and
Gippsland two research insti-
tutes, both for dairying. A Visit
to Maofiland has convinced him
that Australia lags in practical
application of research findings.
N.Z. farmers, he states, were co-
operating with the scientists;
Australian farmers were not.
It’s true that many of our
farmers viewed science with sus-
picion. But the same thing
occurred in the Tennessee
Valley (U.S.A.). The man on
the land had to be educated to
the logic of science. For this pur-
pose the T.V.A. established
special schools, sent instructors
out to every farmer to demon-
strate the practical application
of terracing, contour-ploughing,
soil-analysis, etc. It took several
years. Out of impoverished,
eroded tracts came a transforma-
tion. The crops multiplied. The
farmer could see for himself the
results of scientific research. A
network of dams conserved water
from one end of the valley to the
other. This supplied power
from the hydroelectric works.
The entire face of the valley was
changed. Once again the farmer
could pay his debts and start
anew with brighter prospects.
The moral is that what has
been done in the U.S.A. and
New Zealand could also be done
in Australia. If, instead of heavy
subsidies, inter-State research in-
stitutes were established, the way
would be paved for the tuition
of special agricultural instruc-
tors, who would show the
dubious cocky just what science
can do for him. Initial expenses
of such a scheme ’ would, of
course, be a deterrent, but
nothing worth while is ever
achieved without paying for it.
Once the interest of the farmer
is gained, co-operation will do
the rest.
Hints for the Farm.
“Radian”: When marking
steel for bending or cutting, use
a piece of broken slate ground
to a knife-edge. Marks are dis-
tinct and take a lot of rubbing
off.
“Myrrhee”: Cows which
make an annual practice of con-
tracting milk-fever are best pro-
tected with an injection of boro-
gluconate immediately before
calving. In 12oz, of boiled water
mix 2ioz. of borogluconate and
inject just beneath the skin, at
bloodheat (95deg. to lOOdeg. F.).
Boil rleedles and syringe imme-
diately before use and insert on
a site clipped and swabbed with
iodine. The same treatment will
apply also to cows which have
already contracted the trouble.
“Rooster”: March is the
month for sowing for green-
manuring. Any of the legumes
are suitable, and they will grow
fairly rapidly during April and
May. Nitrogenous crops will
maintain fertility, but green
cereals make a good substitute
and are much cheaper. Keeping
the soil conditioned in the
orchard is as important as proper
pruning and spraying. No fruit
will flourish in sick soil. Peas,
beans and lupins are best sown
at one and a half bushels per
acre; cereals at a bushel per
acre. Use superphosphate to aid
rapid growth—about 2cwt. per
acre. If soil is soured, use lime
liberally, preferably slaked.
“Malo”; Straw or chaff that
has been spoilt by exposure
makes good mulches and
manures. Any kind of leaves,
vegetables and clippings, animal
manures, etc., should be heaped
up and covered with soil, ashes
or a little gypsum until needed.
“Bat”: A kero.-tin painted on
the inside and covered with wire-
gauze makes a good blowfly-
trap. A 4in. slot fitted with a
small gauze frame tapering to a
|in. at lower edge will allow
entry, but prevent escape.
“W. Court”: Some N.Q.
farmers are not now so keen to
get filter-press mud for manur-
ing their caneland, as they believe
it brings the nutgrass pest with it.
Normally, nutgrass or sedge is
a creekside grass only, but it is
suggested that some nuts get to
the mills on the roots of har-
vested cane, and come out again,
encased in boiling mud, but alive.
When the mud is carted out to
the farms, the nuts get into the
soil, and the pest subsequently
grows on land' where previously
it was not found.
“Arbor”: One of the loveliest
Australian trees, that can be
grown anywhere where frosts
are not too severe, is the white
silky-oak, seedlings of which are
now procurable. The tree grows
to about 25ft. high, but is easily
kept to a low and more bunchy
shape by pruning. The large,
circular flowers are very showy,
being bright red and plentiful.
Good draining is essential for
successful growth. Any kind of
loam enriched with leaf-mould,
etc., will suit this tree.


The Toast of
Connoisseurs . T
on asking °
■
n RANDY
t 2
GIOBITE
TRAVEL CASES
They're lighter, stronger, longer,
lasting. That's why a Globlta
costs less la the long run.
Mode by
FORD SHERINGTON’ LTD.
T ** _ I
c ♦
’'f V'
|||i|f"
mm *
mmm*
FOR BETTER BUYING LATER
Sf
/■-.
smm- -
■s 8 : ®
.., and whi/e you waif
let your Savings
earn money for you
Hundreds of thousands of people, realising the wisdom of regular
saving, have put aside fixed amounts from their pay envelopes each week
and, as a result, have accumulated substantial sums. This money can be
of the greatest value to its possessors—and to Australia . . . but it can
also be a danger . . . if it were suddenly used for the purchase of goods
it could aggravate to-day’s shortages and force prices higher.
That is why the wise people who have
their money will see further
wisdom in investing it in the Seventh
Security Loan. By keeping it out of
circulation they will help to maintain
Australia’s economic stability.
The Seventh Security Loan will open
on March 22, but there is na need
to wait until then to invest. By pfeying
your subscription in full, you can
subscribe in advance, at once, through
any Bank, Savings Bank or Stock-
broker. When the Loan opens you
may subscribe by instalments. Interest
will commence from the date of your
subscription . . . your investment will
be absolutely safe, guaranteed by the
Commonwealth.
Fourteen-year Bonds bearing interest
at 3-k% per annum are available for
as little as £lO as well as in denomina-
tions of £5O, £lOO, £5OO and £l,OOO.
Three-year Bonds bearing interest at
TPJo per annum are available for
minimum subscription of £l,OOO or
multiples thereof. There is no limit
to the amount you can invest!
Make the most of your savings—
make your money earn more for you
in the Seventh Security Loan. Not
only will your savings increase
through interest payments, but they
will also be worth more later when
Australia’s present production diffi-
culties have been overcome and high
quality goods are again in plentiful
supply at reasonable prites.
MAKE AN ADVANCE
SUBSCRIPTION TO THE
SEVENTH
SECURITY
LOAN
OPENING MARCH 22
Authorised by the Treasurer of the Commonwealth. P75L4.113.39
* ' 7
been
3
«aV
Our feminine customers
complained that the men-
folk were continually
''borrowing” their
Napro Hair Vitalizer,
and asked us to do
something about it.
Well, we have. We’re
now making a special
Napro Hair Vitalizer
for men. Like the
original product, it will
keep the scalp clean and
healthy and the hair
elastic and vigorous. But
it also has certain added ingredients that enable
it to be used as a hair dressing that will keep
the hair perfectly groomed without that "patent
leather” look. Start using Napro Hair Vitalizer
to l day ahd notice the difference it makes—right
from the start.
AVAILABLE AT ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES
NAPRO
HAIR VITALIZER fORMfN,
J :vKf
i
£*s
■V
National Chemical Products Pty. Ltd.>
247 Liverpool Street, Sydney
mtss
*» -
COUNTRY HAIRCUT
By “COL M”
Stockwhips hung coiled in the
window; Saddles dwelt on the
floor; a mountain of repaired
boots rose at one end of the
counter; and in the act of de-
positing another pair on its
summit was the owner of the
shop.
“Haircut?” he asked. “Be
right with you. You’ll find the
chair at the back of the shop.
Alf, the man wants a haircut.”
When the chair was located
and sat on it was warm, and a
man, taken to be Alf, was
spreading himself along a form
by the wall under a framed
patch of mildew alleged to be
Carbine.
Drowsiness came, and then
the bootmaker, who, in his side-
line as barber, seemed at first
quieter than most, and for a
while the only talk was between
his clippers and a Christmas
beetle browsing in the leather
section of the shop. Then the
barber spoke to the man on the
form, continuing their inter-
rupted conversation.
“This fella Dennis was
brought up in the town with a.
brother, older than him, and
brainy—was engineer at the
pumping-station. Dennis him-
self stuck to the land until he
was about thirty. Then he
thought he’d have a go at shop-
keeping.
“He had a good crop of maize
coming on, and borrowed
enough on it to get his store
and stock. He left someone to
run his farm and moved into
his shop, and was doing well.
But just when his crop was
ready ror harvesting the river
came down and flooded the lot.
“Dennis got a lot of sympathy
that day and people were won-
dering how he’d cough up.
Then a couple of nights later the
local constable and stationmaster
were passing the shop pretty late
on their way home from a lodge
meeting. They saw a flickering
light at the back. And when
they looked in the window they
yelled ‘Fire!’
“Dennis was living upstairs,
and by the time they got the pub
awake and a ladder, the fire had
spread all over the ground floor.
Terrible quick. A big mob
gathered, and someone went for
the brigade. By the time the
bloke in charge of the engine
had got his horses teamed up,
and gone around the town pick-
ing up his crew, and got bogged
a couple of times before he
arrived at the shop, the place
is burning like hell.
“They got their hoses out,
plugged into the main, and no-
thing happened. So the mes-
senger bloke hopped on to his
horse again and galloped up to
the pumping-house. Dennis’s
brother was very shocked when
he heard about it, and told them
they’d have to suck water from
the river. He’d stopped pumping
into the reservoir a couple of
days before because of the silt.
“So the brigade got out their
long hose and ran it down to
the river, and just as the first
couple of squirts came out the
roof fell in. They didn’t bother
any more, but just sat down to
watch the sparks.
“There was a r lot of talk at the
time, but the insurance people
paid up and Dennis headed south
and wasn’t seen again.'
“Then Mrs. Whiting thought
she saw him get off the bus this
morning. It was a fair while
ago since she knew him, but
she. reckoned it was the same
Dennis fella. She told me about
him.”
“Gasbag,” remarked the man
on the form.
“I know. But all women are
the same, Alf. None of ’em can
mind their own business. Her
in particular. If I repeated some
of the things she’s told me I’d
get sued. She’s said things
about me, too, but I don’t let
on”
Here sleep took me out of
the chair and back to the city,
and when I awoke the barber
was nearly finished. The man on
the form had moved to the door-
way and was looking across at
the pub.
“Old Geoff’s on the ran-tan
again,” he noted.
“Yair. His wife found him
this morning at the top of a
stepladder picking apricots.”
“When did he have the
stroke?”
“Monday week.”
“Is she going to leave?”
“Told him she was. Bought a
return ticket, though. She’ll be
back in three weeks.”
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS.
Name and address must appear on the
MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and
no MS. will be returned unless stamps
accompany. MS. should be addressed
to the Editor.
L.R.W.: A flapper sheet might be
interested in “Doreen, who was
beautiful, with lovely hazel eyes,”
and her “Peter, who was tall and
bronzed, and spoke with a dreamy
drawl”... .R. 5.8.: It would be better
for all if you wrote that sort of thing
in invisible ink.;..E.N.: It js a
shame that such things should happen
to “one so young and beautiful.”
T.M.: “Wayward Women” not
wanted at 252 George-street
Bellerive: Quite a character, eh?: —
J.Z.: Can’t answer this one our-
selves, but will print it here to see
if anyone else can:—
On account of the fact that I have been
interested in the writing profession I ask
you would you please answer this query.
I have written books by copying phrazing,
ideas and names of places and people
from other people’s work. I had no in-
tention of publishing them. I wish to
know whether or not any person, persons
or institutions have placed my name or
caused it to be placed down in Australia
or England as a genius. I have never
published any literature and I have never
had any published and I do not want my
name placed down anywhere as a genius.
Is there any place in Australia or Eng-
land where they place the name of a
genius down ? Could it be done without
the person supposed to be a genius writing
any literary work for publication and
without their knowledge or consent? If
so, please give me the address or where
I could find out.
M.M.: “The Hairy Arm” was last
seen groping for the edge of the w.p.b.
J.N.C.: That philosophical swag-
man has worn out a dozen Bulletin
doormats K.A.: Stick to beer, then,
and swear off ink J.H.8.: The
office-boy says the editor of his
favorite penny-dreadful might con-
sider “The Corpse in the Hollow
Log.”
RECOLLECTIONS OF MY YOUTH.
SPRINGHEEL JACK.
In stirring events of the ’eighties
To which I often look back
I recall a notorious scarer
Known as Springheel Jack.
His pranks evoked a sensation,
Till police the scarer did track.
Upon the banks of the Yarra
Cornered was Springheel Jack.


Summer Sweetness
n
Orchardists in Australia send a lot of their fruit to
canners and jam manufacturers. Very large quantities
of sugar are used by canners and jam makers during the
fruit Reason. The syrup in which fruit is packed contains
about 55% sugar and jam contains as much as 60%
sugar. ,
p
BBS
mWm
m
mmmM
2Ns
m
m
Reserves of sugar to process the fruit crop are normally built up
during the winter and spring, in readiness for the ripening fruit.
The capacity of the C.S.R. Co.’s refining plant in Australia is
more than sufficient to meet all Australia’s requirements, but
coal and shipping difficulties and labour shortages have recently
caused refining plants to work below their full capacity in several
States of the Commonwealth.
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
Missing Friend.
WILLIAM ARTHUR LEO PERRIER (also
known as LEO C ARRI), husband of
Theresa Elizabeth Perrier, late of Auck-
land, or anyone knowing his whereabouts,
please communicate with the DISTRICT
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Auckland, New Zea-
land.
For the FIRST time!
MtMNMMft^NVNNNNNV^
A FULL SLEEPER
AIR SERVICE
to U.S.A.& CANADA
ONLY 29 FLYING HOURS TO SAN FRANCISCO IN THE
fated'
'DOUGLAS' AIRLINER
THE 300 M.P.H. •■PRESSURISED"
see
NOW FLYING THE SOUTHERN CROSS ROUTE WITH
BC P A
Here's the last word in luxury—on night stages, while
you fly 3 miles up at 5 miles a minute, you can enjoy
the comfort of a curtained compartment with full-
length bunk—blankets—clothes rack—mirror—read-
ing lamp and even an electric razor for the menfolkl
DC-6 comfort costs no extra and your complete
overseas journey can be paid for in Australian
currency. Pull information and reservations from your
local travel agent, any airline booking office or
BCPA Head Office, 53 Martin Place, Sydney
{BW 2741).
l£ I
SYDNEY • FIJI • CANTON ISLAND • HONOLULU • SAN FRANCISCO • VANCOUVER
WITH CONNECTIONS AT SAN FRANCISCO AND VANCOUVER TO U.K. AND EUROPE
BCA.IS.I6N
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“H . On January 28, to Ray
and Em—a bony daughter (Elizabeth
Dawn). Thanking Dr, Bennett and
hospital staff.”
—Adelaide “Advertiser."
That’ll bring in those samples
of baby food!
•F *F *F
“City business executive requires
good building site. Price negligible
for desired site.” — Suburban paper.
A wealthy man who wants for
nothing.
•F *F *F
“Low-voltage electricity troubles
should cease after Sunday, when
there will be a total interruption of
the service for the purpose of im-
proving the supply.”
— Coolamon-Ganmain “Review.”
The modern trend.
•F *F *F
“Have you a suit in your wardrobe
that could be cut down or made
larger ? ” — Woman’s paper.
Most of us have made ours
do too long already.
“Sir George Chester, secretary of
the National Union of Boot and Shoe
Operatives, has been appointed a
director of the Bank of England.”
His sole aim is to see that the
Old Lady doesn’t get down on
her uppers.
•F *F *F
Character versus Plot.
“The easiest way to remove an un-
wanted character is to drown him.
Don’t if you want to make money.”
— Text-book on fiction-writing.
Reminds me of my first short-
story, “Kiss Her, Oirse You.”
For 1791 words I had allowed
Herbert, the villain, to frustrate
Horace (hero) and Helen
(heroine), but the time had de-
finitely arrived for his removal,
I objected to the drowning idea,
but I had a train roaring around
the bend, there was a level-
crossing at a sharp turn off the
main road, and Herbert was
scorching along in his super-
charged, straight-eight nonchal-
antly studying a form-guide. It
was merely a matter of twisting
the wheel to have Herbert spread
thinly over a large area of rail-
way property.
But Herbert drove straight on,
reaching Windygums ahead of
the train to find that the station-
master had eloped with the local
barmaid. Herbert took over,
working the express safely
through. As a result, nobody
cared two hoots whether Helen
nagged Horace to death or went
back to mother. Windygums
took round the hat for Herbert,
and I got twenty-five quid from
“Wide Open Roads,” a trade
•journal at that time running a
road-safety campaign.
Percival.
•F *F *F
Dead-reckoning.
When horses race, and many
start,
The hopeful punter’s mystic art
Is first to pick, and then to place,
The few contending for the race.
Brian Bureau,
“Women’s styles may change, but
their designs remain the same.”
—“New Idea"
Particularly on eligible
bachelors.
4* •I* 4*
“Poultry, hogs and cattle had been
successfully fattened on chemically-
treated sawdust.”
—Sydney “Sunday Telegraph."
Even human beings have been
known to exist on sausages.
•1* *F *F
“Left in phone-box, Chatswood
station, 14th, small copy ‘Selections
from Dickens.’ ” — Suburban paper.
Owner has Great Expectations
of its recovery.
“Hold your finger there a minute !”
“Lost, 1 striped launch.”
—Country paper
Name is lance-corporal.
•F *F *F
“The employers were quite prepared
to pay rates comparable with the
Federal award, provided they were
based on Queensland cost-of-loving
figures.” — Brisbane “Telegraph."
The wages of sin?
The New Regime.
“There’s to be a child-welfare ex-
hibition in New Guinea in April.”
—“Sunday Telegraph."
How can this exhibition show
What’s done to help the native
youth
When people everywhere must
know
The simple, sad unvarnished
truth?
That lads no longer can be
found —•
At least in our Australian
zone —
Though girls and adults quite
abound
And seem to more than hold
their own.
And is it famine or the sword
That half New Guinea’s youth
destroys ?
Why, not at all! It’s Eddie Ward
Who’s done away with all the
“boys.”
D. H. E.
Getting the Lay of It.
“A mechanical hen laid eggs at
Birmingham toy fair.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun."
It’s not surprising that my spouse
Tells me I’m useless round the
house,
For though I’m good at growing
beans
I’m just a helpless awkward fool
Who cannot make a chair or
stool
Or tinker round with old
machines.
And with my car I’m just a joke,
I clean the plugs but can’t de-
coke ;
And yet I’m certain of this
much :
That I could fix this tricky hen —
I’d start the engine up and then
Quite easily release the clutch!
BERT.
Purely Non-political.
“Mr. Dedman told a meeting of
the Federal Parliamentary Labor
party that a ‘character test’ would be
applied to scientists in the newly-
reconstituted Commonwealth Scien-
tific and Industrial Research Organi-
sation. No political test would be
applied.”
The Assistant Deputy-Director
of Security Screenings (Char-
acter Division) opened his eyes
as a knock came at his door;
he had time to be looking
through a file before his Investi-
gation Research Officer came in.
He looked up. “What is it,
Mr. Gumboyle?” he asked.
“I’ve been investigating the
dossier of Dr. Cranck,” replied
his subordinate. “You’ll recall
he has recently been appointed
to top-secret defence work. I’ve
got quite a bit of information
about him. For a start, he did
three years’ hard labor in the
U.S.A. for passing vital defence
secrets on to a Soviet agent. The
evidence disclosed that he was a
‘silent’ member of the central
executive of the American Com-
munist party, and that”
“Mr. Gumboyle!” broke in
the A.D.D.S.S. (C.D.) severely.
“I must remind you that the
Government has given specific
instructions that a man’s politics
bear no relation whatsoever to
his continuing in his employ-
ment. If he was, or is, a Co —er
—a political philosopher, that is
his own private affair entirely.
Mr. Dedman has said so, and so
has Mr. Chifley—quite often.
Now let nothing further be men-
tioned, please, about his political
affiliations ; we must stick strictly
to his character side. Was there
anything else?”
“Well, it came out at the trial
that he was such a fanatical
Com —er —enthusiastic follower
-of a certain organisation that he
passed the information over to
the Soviet agent without getting
a penny for it.”
The A.D.D.S.S. (C.D.) reached
for the appropriate file, attached
a slip of paper to it and began
making notes under the heading
“Character.”
“Ah!” he said. “This could
be interpreted as something in
his favor —generosity and a com-
plete absence of venality. Any-
thing else, Mr. Gumboyle?”
“Yes. As a member of the
Soviet-Australia People’s Good-
fellowship League he made a
speech recently saying that if the
Red Army in pursuit of an
aggressor who was attacking the
U.S.S.R. was to land on these
shores he would welcome the
visitors with open arms as libera-
tors of the downtrodden and
oppressed workers.”
“There you go again, Mr.
Gumboyle. I do wish you
wouldn’t keep dragging in bits
about his political views. I’m
sure the Minister wouldn’t ap-
prove of it. Let me see now —-
character. Attitude certainly
denotes friendliness and a will-
ingness to co-operate. Anything
else?”
“Well, between . September,
nineteen thirty-nine, and June,
nineteen forty-two, at Domain
meetings he spoke as a Co —
as a member of a certain organi-
sation which takes the name of
its headquarters building from a
man whose initials were ‘K.M,,’
and at which he denounced the
war as a capitalist conspiracy de-
signed to split the friendship then
existing between Hitler and
Stalin, and demanded Hitler’s
peace offers be accepted uncon-
ditionally.”
“I still think, Mr. Gumboyle,
that you are laying stress on his
political activities rather than on
his character. The Minister
would be most annoyed if he
knew you were taking that line,
in view of the pronounced Gov-
ernment policy. The fact that
this scientist has been, or even is
now, connected with this —er —•
certain organisation or any of its
auxiliaries concerns us not one
jot as investigators. It does
seemingly serve to show, how-
ever, that he is passionately de-
voted to the cause of peace.
“Let us sum up, then.” Here
he glanced at the file in front
of him. “Ignoring altogether, as
we are bound, his political
opinions and activities, it seems
to show that he is generous to a
fault —though admittedly it was
not his own property that he
gave away—has not the fault of
venality, is of a friendly and co-
operative nature and is a lover
of peace, even if it is at any
price. Why, hang it, Mr. Gum-
boyle, I can’t see how the Minis-
ter, on the strength of this, could
possibly relieve him of his post! ”
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
The Snowy and the Atom
Before Mf. Lemmon made his an-
nouncement ' that the Snowy diversion
“involves the creation in the Australian
Alps of a production area which will be
protected against atom-bombs” (B.
23/’49), he should have looked at the
£25-miliion Kiewa hydroelectric project
which Victoria will have in operation by
1956, producing 289,000 kilowatts.
I saw a diagrammatic film of this pro-
ject about seven years ago; it showed
that six of the seven power-stations will
be placed* deep underground; this was
before Mr. Lemmon even hfiard of the
atom-bomb. It is an essential part of
the plan that the power-stations be under-
ground, at the bottom of tunnels descend-
ing steeply from the pondages. No. 2
power-station at Kiewa will be 650 ft.
below the surface, and Nos. 1 and 5 will
be so far underground that they can only
be reached by tunnels running in from
the steep mountainside.
In England 25 huge power-stations will
be completed by 1952. Some are already
in operation. In northern Scotland work
is being done on 12 of 19 great dams for
the Hydroelectricity Board. These power-
stations have not been built to produce
atom-bombs, nor as a protection against
atom-bombs. They are, like the Kiewa
project, being built partly as a check
to the coalminers, who can disrupt in-
dustry on the slightest pretext,
When hydroelectric works are com-
pleted they require so few employees that
the men are practically in the same posi-
tion as lighthousekeepers. No doubt the
Communists will try to establish cells
among the workers during the construc-
tion period, but they will find it hard
slugging to make an underground turbine
join the movement.
Following Mr. Lemmon’s announce-
ment, a Riverina daily said editorially,
“and the atomic-energy project bound up
with it will make this country the
most vital spot in the Empire in the event
of war.” Here we advance from fear of
the atom-bomb to making the things, and
this is how Mr. Lemmon’s talk was in-
terpreted by many people. Hydro-electric
power and the food produced by irriga-
tion may be useful in time of war, but
in its correct perspective the Snowy plan
is a plan for peace.
Another popular error, fostered by
irresponsible statements, is that the ex-
penditure on the diversion, estimated at
between £166 and £lB5 million, will all be
in the inaccessible mountains. There will
certainly be heavy expenditure in the
initial works programme, but it will not
all be on wages. Much of it will be on
the resumption of farmlands on the
river-flats, machinery, materials and
reticulation work for water and elec-
tricity. Much of it will be spent many
miles down the Murrumbidgee, and if
all the States get a fair deal, in Victoria
and-South Australia.
The Victorian Government found it
necessary to keep unwanted tourists out
of the Kiewa area. Cars and buses are
dangerous in that country on narrow,
winding roads ; tourists light fires in forest
areas and also sometimes get lost. I
have been up there more than once and
have always gained admittance on the
simple statement of my genuine business.
There is no question of secrecy any more
than with a private business firm.
If political and other influences were
not now at work perhaps N.S.W. could
be trusted to give all the States a fair
deal in this matter. But N.S.W. is sus-
pect, It seems to be evident already
that when the Murrumbidgee Irrigation
Area is protected from drought the rest
of the scheme can go hang. A N.S.W.
State member told me that his greatest
fear was that certain politicians would
press for the diversion of the Snowy until
their particular interests were served and
then the whole scheme would lapse.
This is why- Victoria and South Aus-
tralia want an authority above political
control to do the work. The real Snowy
diversion idea cannot be compared with
bank nationalisation, broadcasting control
or any other “Labor” dictatorial pro-
ject. If the scheme is implemented by
an independent board on the model of
T.V.A., with the concurrence of the four
Governments concerned (two of which
are now anti-Labor), there is no reason
why it should not be brought to fruition.
Australia must disregard Mr. Lemmon
and his atom-bomb. The Snowy River
scheme should be seen for what it is: a
genuine developmental plan to bring thou-
sands of acres of land to full production,
supply cheap electric-power to rural
communities, and relieve us of the con-
stant threat of unemployment and dis-
comfort at the hands of the Communist-
driven coalminers. Riverina Rita
(N.S.W.).
Dog Elat Dog!
The first of the threatened '“odd-day”
strikes by tram and bus services hit Bris-
bane on March 1. The merits or de-
merits of the cause are not argued here.
The tramway and bus workers are con-
demned for not placing their troubles
before the Arbitration Court in the lawful
fashion. As yet the full import of such
strikes is not felt. Buses run by private
enterprise still service many Brisbane
suburbs. But many routes have been
taken over by City Council buses, and it
is the Council’s intention to take over all
bus runs. Herein lies the danger.
Such' monopolies make political
weapons of great power. Arbitration is
doomed when a combine of services
under one power holds such an advan-
tage. Of the first “one-day” we were
forewarned, but of others each week we
shall have no warning, says the union.
Yes, even Mum’s domain and her sup-
posed modern paradise, the kitchen, can
be disrupted by these new tyrants. Strikes
that ration use of electricity and gas, or
cause blackouts, make her dream of
modern conveniences a mirage and get
her to thinking back to wood-stoves and
wash-boilers and the old ice-chest; they
were all reliable. In this much publi-
cised “golden age,” worker is hurting
worker, destroying the hopes of his own
kind.— Me Mi Ca (Q’land).
More Form-filling
Any Australian citizen wishing to go
abroad these days must be prepared for
endless paper formalities. Wishing to
visit her people, my neighbor—an English-
woman who came here 37 years ago—
began arrangements for her passage and
passport some four months ago, since
when she has signed more papers than
she can remember.
With the passing of Mr. Calwell’s
Nationality and Citizenship Act three
weeks before the ship was due to sail,
the department demanded a birth-certi-
ficate and threatened non-issue of a pass-
port if it was not forthcoming. After
pleading, and “in . View of the impractic-
ability of obtaining the certificate,” they
graciously consented to make do with
her Australian husband’s certificate,
though he was not accompanying her.
Compare this with pre-Calwell days
when formalities were so reasonable that
it was possible to complete them without
possessing a lawyer’s qualifications.—
Carlyle (Vic.).
Freedom of Enterprise
To own his own business and be his
own boss is the ideal of many an ambi-
tious soul. Today, attaining the ideal is
a vastly different proposition from what
it once was.
In the past the mixed-businessman
worked up to 14 hours a day, un-
encumbered by the watchful eyes of
a boss and happy in the knowledge that
his £lO or £l2 a week was massing into
“a tidy nest-egg.
Look at this same man now. His
working day is down to about a 12-hour
period—a paltry 70-hour week. His retail
prices have been' doubled and trebled,
making him lay out more money in
buying stock. The risk of losses from
breakages and bad debts is multiplied.
Wholesalers’ and producers’ profits have
increased to cover price and expense
rises, but his have not altered.
The coveted £lO or £l2 of a few years
back is still there. But its purchasing-
power is cut almost in halves. A shift-
worker or any man on overtime rates
working these long hours would earn
, much more than the small-businessman,
once so proud because he was his own
boss. Now a great, mysterious thing
called “economic pressure” is boss. —
Ebrius (N.S.W.).
New Guinea Copra
“K.A.5.,” in his excellent article on
New Guinea copra (B, 23/2/’49), com-
plains, among other things, that the Com-
monwealth deducts from proceeds of sales
about £2O per ton, including an £8 ss. per
ton levy. This, he says, is for a “highly
mysterious stabilisation fund about which
nobody knows anything, since no public
statement has ever been made.”
He does Canberra less than justice, for
in the Commonwealth Auditor-General’s
report for 30/6/’47, there is a paragraph
(109) which throws much light on the
matter, running:
A stabilisation Reserve Fund approved
by the Minister and administered by the
Department of External Territories was
established during the year under the pro-
visions of Part IV, Control of Industries,
.National Security (External Territories)
Regulations, for the purpose of assisting to
maintain the copra industry on a sound
basis.
The Fund is to be credited with a levy
calculated in accordance with an approved
scale based upon the price of copra per ton
after allowing a clear margin of £3 per ton
over the average production cost.
The publication has no wide circula-
tion, so it is unlikely that many planters
know upon how narrow a margin they
are being permitted by their overlords at
Canberra to operate. Those whose costs
are above average must be in a pretty
hopeless position.
The average plantation business should
have among its objectives two modest
ambitions; first, to pay off overdraft and
thereby to get on its feet financially;
second, to extend the planted area each
year, enough to compensate for natural
loss of coconut palms. Supposing a
planter calculates his coconut palms to
have a bearing life of 40 years, he should
aim at expanding by at least 2\ per cent,
a year.
In respect of his overdraft, it is im-
material whether it is with a bank or, as
is more common, with one of the large
trading concerns. No material progress
in reduction is possible under these re-
strictions. Yet it is only in times of
higher prices t)ian reductions can ever be
effected. On the financial side, therefore,
the effect is to pin the private planter
more firmly than ever to the firms, or the
bank if the overdraft is there.
Replacement-planting has practically
had to cease under present conditions,
especially as the financial stranglehold is
aggravated by-labor restrictions.
Practically all plantations, more-
over, are cramped in their finance by a
material reduction in production through
enemy damage. My firm is harvesting
about 50 tons a year when it should be
getting approximately 180 tons at this
stage. War-damage compensation, at 1942
values, has been very largely swallowed
up in replacement of buildings and water-
craft at inflated prices, and in the
extremely high recruiting costs of the new
labor line. Little cash can be used for
the foregoing essential expenses.
Unless the planter is in a position to
replace his wasting asset, the long-term
result can only be the extinction of the
industry.—W. K. H. (W.A.).
Buying a House
Does “Nalla” want someone to give
him his house (B. 2/ 3/ ’49)? With his
£l-a-week “rent-repayments” it would
take 32 years to pay back the principal.
On top of that he must expect to pay
some interest. Even if “Nalla” lives that
long, what will his house, built under
present-day conditions, be like in another
32 years? If he can only afford £1 a
week for rent, what will he be able to
spend on painting and repairs during
those years?
Building a house is practically beyond
the reach of a man on £7 or £8 a week,
but obtaining the finance is not the cause.
With banks, insurance companies and co-
operative building societies all wishing to
invest in home building, interest-rates are
as low as can be expected. “Nalla”
touches the real reason when he states
that £1750 is the minimum price a builder
quoted him.
Before the war you could build a home
for £7OO or £BOO. That could be financed
on £l-per-week repayments. Surely twice
the rent for twice the cost is reasonable.
Incidentally, if “Nalla” knows of any
other houses with £l-a-week rent near his
own, I’ll become his neighbor very
quickly.— Mullum (N.S.W.).
The Building Trades
“Pongo” asks (B. 9/ 2/ ’49) why “aren’t
carpenters, bricklayers, tilers, etc., obliged
to pass a competency test?”
In Queensland the Master Builders’
Association president (B. A, Taylor)
once again asked the State Labor Gov-
ernment to register all builders to pro-
tect the public and to maintain the trade’s
standards.
The spokesman for the Government
stated that the 'request, could not be
acceded to as “such a law requiring
registration of builders would stop many
people now buiding from doing so.”
The Liberal party might care to make
registration of builders and architects a
matter of policy. It might not get them
many votes, but still a lot of people who
have been caught will appreciate the
effort. — Repatriate (Q.).
Lay Bare Your Souls
Why don’t Commonwealth Govern-
ment offices with bureaucratic regulations
provide some form of privacy where the
public may discuss problems with quali-
fied officers? No one likes disclosing
private circumstances, particularly within
hearing of others queued up behind a
typical Government inquiry counter. It’s
hard to face the impersonal air of a clerk
whose daily routine is to ask complete
strangers their age, bank-balance, earn-
ings, why they want extra butter coupons
and so. on, according to the department
concerned. Each administrator should
insist that the public be given a fair go in
regard to confidential advice and assist-
ance.—!. F. (S.A.).
Religious Reading
Most Sunday papers have articles,
fiction and general-interest (stories for
readers to while away their Sabbath, but
do not give regular columns to biblical
instruction or Christian study. It may be
argued that there are weekly religious
papers and magazines, but I reply that
Christianity is the national religion, and
has as much to do with everyday life as
world troubles and trials, local news,
sport, personal dramas, etc.
Give us’ regular religious features —to
help us oer biblical ignorance and guide
us to the realisation of our Christian
citizenship and our duty to religion, and
the debt we owe for blessings and beauties
which pass unobserved while we moan
about. trifles and petty trials, and sneer
or laugh at human foibles and follies. —
D. M. H. (N.S.W.).
For More States
Apart from the danger of annihilation
by atomic bombs if we continue to herd
ourselves together in a few big cities, there
is a danger of bankruptcy through neglect
of agriculture in the comparatively empty
rural areas. Just as small farms are more
easily and economically managed than
large ones, so small States would be more
prosperous.
Consider North Australia, at present
represented by one member of Parlia-
ment. There is a 200-mile-wide band of
rich, well-watered country around the
coast of N.A., inhabited by a few abos,
half-castes, Chinese and Malayans, and
fewer whites.
The country is salubrious and pleasant
for nine months of the year, and for the
other months there are highlands which
could become health resorts. There could
be three States up there.
West of Sydney there is a tremendous
area of the best agricultural land in the
world, as has been proved wherever bores
have been put down. All that is needed
are irrigation and the planting of forests
and wind-breaks. These improvements
would soon appear if,the areas governed
themselves— Birubi (N.S.W.).
Publishing Dales
Can anything be done to stop some
local publishers from putting only the
Australian publishing dates, with no
qualifying notes on the title-pages of
books previously published elsewhere? I
have just been tricked by such an imprint
into buying for a writer frfend overseas
what I thought was a new book. I later
found this book quoted in some of his
earlier writing, and a check of a copy of
the book I’d sent showed me what I had
missed before —the date, 1936, in tiny
print after the author’s name at the end
of the preface. If a grocer sold year-old
eggs under the label “new-laid’ there
would be trouble.— Sunshine (N.S.W.),


A New State
The northern N.S.W. new-State con-
vention at Armidale on February 9-11
ended on a note of optimism that had
long been missing in the movement. De-
termined this time that they will achieve
independence, the northern people showed
plainly that they mean to get a new
State.
The chairman’s announcement of the
convention’s decision to call the new
State New England was greeted by a
spontaneous round of applause from
the delegates. The name Oxley, the only
runner-up, received less than half as
many votes as New England.
Less expected was the unanimous deci-
sion to include Newcastle in the new
State. Traditionally New England has
always been 100 per cent, rural, and the
decision to include Newcastle’s industrial
population of 200,000 must have been a
blow to the prejudices of the old-timers.
Only the realisation that the advent of
the new State would be delayed if they
did not accept Newcastle persuaded many
to vote for its inclusion.
The influence of local-governing bodies
was strongly felt at the convention. Their
most important achievement was the in-
sertion of a clause in the Constitution
safeguarding the rights of local com-
munities in the new State. Already there
was a provision that 10 per cent, of the
tax revenue was to go to the shires and
municipalities, but the additional clause
read:
No Parliament shall, without the authority
of a referendum within the area affected,
repeal existing local-government law or
affect the existing functions of local-govern-
ment bodies except in furtherance and
extension of the principles of local govern-
ment by city, municipal, shire and county
and urban committees.
The Armidale convention, in view of
its local significance, might have been
pardoned if its outlook had been some-
what parochial, but actually that was far
from the case. A broad vision and
national sentiment was revealed in its
proclamation that its object was to pre-
serve and strengthen the Federal system
in Australia. To accomplish that it pro-
posed to found a “New Federation
League,” not only for the purpose of
creating more new States in other parts
of Australia, but to work for the con-
solidation of the Federal compact gener-
ally.
Immediate objectives of the movement
are, however, to educate public opinion
and to publicise the advantages of the
new State. Leaders are to be trained, and
the movement is to spread to Newcastle
and other centres it has not yet pene-
trated. When organisation is complete,
petitions to the N. S. Wales and Com-
monwealth Governments will be circu-
lated.
Historians some day will record that
the second convention at Armidale was a
landmark in Australian history.—J. B. R.
(N.S.W.).
The Extra Rail
There are insurmountable difficulties in
the way of running a third rail from the
south into Queensland in order to bring
out coal (B. 16/2/’49). You can super-
impose narrow gauge on the broad, but
you cannot reverse the process. And the
southern States are little better off for
rolling-stock than Queensland. Who is
going to pay the cost, at 2d. per ton-mile,
of haulage from (say) Blair Athol to
Sydney, 1260 miles, or to Melbourne, 600
miles further?
The only way to get that coal to
southern markets is by sea. “Dee’s” sug-
gestion for a standard-gauge line from
the opencuts to ports, is obviously based
on the popular fallacy that the 3ft. 6in.
gauge is a toy. It may be in Queensland,
but, as South Africa has shown, if built
for the job the narrow gauge can carry
just as much as the broad and do it
cheaper.
All that’s needed to get almost unlimited
coal from these sources is for somebody
to find the money so that the construction
of the Callide-Gladstone line or the re-
construction and equipping of the Blair
Athol section can be done. If “Dee” can
lay his hands on the necessary rails and
sleepers and can persuade somebody to
build the rolling-stock—no Australian
Railway Department can do it—he should
travel free for the rest of his life.—
Transporticus (Q.).
If “Dee” (B. 16/2/’49) imagines for one
minute that the Communists would permit
the track to be built in the first place he
is underestimating them and their plans
for the “revolution.” Let the N.S.W.
Government agree with Hanlon’s Gov-
ernment to go ahead with such a line, and
see whether the Communists will allow its
"I know you Peeping Toms! The fire's in the flat below."
construction without a struggle. Even
should the railroad be finished so that
N.S.W. coal trains can go right into
Queensland opencuts, does “Dee” think
the coal would be allowed to travel into
N.S.W. to smash a coal strike on the
northern coalfields?
I can visualise the declaring of trains,
staffs and stock black ; I can see, too, a
more desperate bid by the Commo-con-
trolled Miners’ Federation to gain control
over opencut mining in Queensland. —
Repatriate (Q.).
Classics and the Classroom
When Henry Johns suggests (B.
23/2/’49) that “a healthy taste for good
writing” should be fostered in the class-
room and that “comics” should be
banned, he forgets his own schooldays.
Although it’s nearly 25 years since my
class “did” Macbeth I can still remember
that the wofks of the Bard were not made
more enchanting by murderous “reading
in turn” by classmates —a reading without
inflection, without dramatisation, without
understanding. Nor was literary apprecia-
tion made easier by the demand for essays
for the examination-paper on such sub-
jects as “What did Lady Mcß. mean when
she said ‘Give me the dagger! ’ and what
does this tell us of her character?”
Chaucer in the classroom was almost
a language lesson, and about as interesting
as Caesar in Gaul until someone hinted
that if I could understand the lingo I’d
find the Miller's Tale hot stuff. Various
works of Scott and his contemporaries
were doled out as “holiday tasks,” and
we treated them as tasks, knowing that we
would be examined on our reading early
in the new term.
My father was a man of some literary
taste, but he never attempted to force us
to read any book. He did ban certain
popular fiction, but this he justified on
the grounds that such works were printed
on bad paper in very small type and he
considered that there was a good chance
we’d damage our eyesight. Provided a
book was on good paper and in good
type we could read whatever we liked.
And now and again he’d drop a hint that
such and such a book wasn’t a bad yarn
and he’d leave a copy lying about. Later
an understanding English master who
made a few suggestions about reading
worth-while |jooks- —he used to make his
suggestions outside the classroom —and a
well-stocked school library did induce me
to read many books.
Ninety per cent, of us have to depend
on small libraries for our books. In
Sydney there is not one modern public
lending-library, and in most Australian
country centres a dingy school of arts
provides dingier books. By contrast I
remember the well-kept and well-
patronised—municipal library at Hamil-
ton (N.Z.).
No, you can’t compel appreciation of
any of the arts in the classroom. What
you can do is to supply opportunities for
children to find the treasures for them-
selves by supplying the books or music
and perhaps helping by very tactful sug-
gestions. And suppressing rubbish will
not help either. Adults and children both
have their own ideas about good and bad
art and they are entitled to have them. —
C. R. (N.S.W.).
Expensive Tastes
A common complaint of people who
'have lived through both periods is that,
despite their bulging pay-envelopes, they
are worse off today than they were when
v/ages were £3, and less, a week. Many
who find it hard to balance the budget
put all the blame on to the ever-increasing
cost of living, and on high taxation. To
a large extent they are right, but it should
be remembered that tastes today are far
more expensive and comprehensive than
they were in the days when a Sunday
suit was a Sunday suit (and it lasted for
years), and when a toiler who possessed
either a second-hand “Lizzie” or a horse-
and-jinker or a spanking new push-bike
considered himself to be getting on pretty
well.
In many homes 40 years ago home-
made bread was common. We seldom
see it now. Housewives find it easier—
even if dearer —to buy from the baker.
When big families were being reared on
small wages, shinbone soup, treacle, toast
and dripping, milk-sop and tea-sop were
often seen on the table. Not bad stuff,
either, but many a worker who relished
it in his boyhood now turns his nose up
at it.
Dress is more elaborate today. Once
there was a marked contrast in the attire,
hair-do and make-up of the banker’s and
the navvy’s wife. It’s hard to pick ’em
now. The bloke from the bush, too, has
lost his identity when he visits the city,
and schoolchildren are done up in ex-
pensive ready-mades. Those patched
and baggy cut-down trousers, home-made
print dresses, heavy hobnailed boots (for
boys and girls), and bare feet which were
so common when we were kids —when
wages were low and things were cheap l —
all gone out of fashion.
And the ones who haye acquired the
really expensive tastes are those in their
late ’teens and early twenties. For a suit,
an evening-dress or a frock they pay
what was once a month’s wages. They
attend everything that appeals in the way
of entertainment, and many of them dash
off by taxi or bus to functions at distant
places. They sometimes lend an ear to
the stories their elders tell of the “good
old times” when a Saturday-night dance,
a card-party, an occasional ball, concert,
circus or travelling picture-show, the
annual sports, show and Sunday-school
picnic provided all the entertainment they
required, and often a little more than
they could afford. Most of the young
moderns don’t want those days back.
Their only complaint is that some luxury
lines are so scarce and there isn’t enough
“entertainment.”
Despite the high cost of living, and
high taxation, plus their expensive tastes,
people, as a whole, appear to be making
ends meet. Old-timers wonder how they
do it, but shopkeepers report a seller’s
market and little tick, and the publican,
with his ever-increasing clientele, has less
on his slate than he had in the days when
wages were low and goods cheap. It
must be that we are living in better times ;
but will it last? —L. P. (Vic.).
The Threat from Asia
Japan is an anti-Communist country
with private enterprise on such a scale
that the Nipponese will probably elect
anti-Communist Governments for several
years ahead. This means that the Japs
are unlikely to send armed forces over-
seas to launch an attack on the demo-
cracies while Russian, Manchurian,
Chinese and Korean Communists menace
Nippon across the narrow Japan sea.
The threat from Asia is a Communist-
engineered war. To prepare for such
an emergency we should be deporting
Communists and cultivating the friend-
ship of Asiatics opposed to Communism.
But the blundering Canberra Socialists are
doing the opposite—they are helping the
Communists oust the Dutch from Indo-
nesia, and they deport non-Communists
such as the Chinese wife of a British
serviceman in Perth, the Malay husbands
of Australian girls and others. This
hostility towards colored people is
being used by the Communists in Asia
as a just cause for war against the whites.
—K. Me. (N.S.W.).
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 8
Across.
I—There’s a dearth when father and
you go to town. (7)
4—Extended cry of a dog in prison
(4, 3)
B—Angry bid by. London. (4, 2, 3,4)
10 — Where a conductor works with
a range within the walls. (10)
11— The zest of six thousand. (3)
13 —Jack says “Hail to cayenne! ”• (5)
15— Banters those born under Capri-
corn? (4)
16— Before returning a volcano. (4)
18 — Part of the neck. (4)
19 — Check saucepans are sent back.
(4)
22 Much more distinguished and
honorable magistrate? (5)
23 Epitaph causes a tear. (3)
24 -This is instrumental in describing
the liquor in the boiler. (6, 4)
28 — Loses the fight but kidnaps the
peer. (5, 3,5)
29 — The author of the Beggar’s Opera
is in a planet of wildcats. (7)
30— Sixes lead to the century and age
the entrails. (7)
(cryptic type.)
( Solution in next issue.)
4 Down.
1 — Having an outing when pinching
road4naking implements. (10)
2 A bed in France is dark. (5)
3 The pagan and I perform after-
wards. (8)
4 General Grant’s opponent goes
to the battle with coppers on the
sheltered side. (7)
5 There’s nothing about a fastener.
(4)
6 Source of counterfeit coinage re-
turns no game. (9)
7 An American is to tug hard and
suddenly. (4)
9 —But it is not the torso of a pack-
ing pachyderm. (5)
12—This place in N.S.W. is upset at
a Tasmanian river strike. (10)
14 —Father upset the dog but he gives
people their jobs. (9)
17 —About receivers’ crimes. (8)
20 — Locks the steamer among the
trees. (7)
21 — Contaminating substance upon
which cricket is played. (5)
25 — Stir the duck in the scheme. (5)
26 — Ray rafter. (4)
27 Expression of approval on a
British artist in the soup. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 7.


THE UNIT OF ENERGY
•N
v>
OS
On
D
cn
Z
o
UJ
(V
•:>. • ....
iv
&0M iJvSfev- -Mag
®fmm.
/•
r •; ••• .••' ;:••■;• #s*w ':'/X 15*.
£• * h vC t wjr ««;•■
i r
f‘y
S
e- ••
cS; :
•5T*.
Wv
&
\
V-?U ! !
\
A
II
Sv
\X-:
I
all r .<
lit
fe
I I; . :4-r = -
I r " •“ ■ .
x- , I-
T»'•■>“ 1. ll • *"
if \ fo c\ '■; ■• -
AS USED BY N.S.W.
GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS
AND SUPPLIED EXCLUSIVELY
TO THE
SYDNEY COUNTY COUNCIL
—FOR CARS AND TRUCKS—
FOR
15th CONSECUTIVE YEAR.
Equipment on Radiola for
17 years.
BATTERIES FOR ALL
PURPOSES:
CAR. TRUCK. TRACTOR.
RADIO. LAUNCH.
HOME LIGHTING.
ELECTRIC FENCER. ETC.
DISTRIBUTION AND SERVICE
N.S.W.:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
156 Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
Queensland:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
32-34 Barry Parade, BRISBANE.
Victoria.:
KEEP BROS. & WOOD PTY., LTD.,
200 Latrobe Street, MELBOURNE.
South Australia:
DAVID L. PRESCOTT,
91 Tenders Street, ADELAIDE.
Western Australia:
NICHOLSONS, LIMITED,
Barrack Street, Perth; 3 Adelaide Street,
Fremantle; Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie.
, Tasmania:
ERG DISTRIBUTORS, LAUNCESTON;
TASMANIAN RUBBER CO., LTD., HOBART.
Manufactured by
New Zealand:
BATTERY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURERS, LTD,
436 Broadway, Newmarket, AUCKLAND, S.E.I.
New Caledonia:
HAGEN FRERES, NOUMEA.
Fiji:
ELTRON ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING CO,
SUVA.
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.
156 Goulbum Street, Sydney. ’Phone; MA 6188 (3 lines)
32-34 Barry Parade, Brisbane. ’Phones; B 6565, B 4448
