

GREAT
TERN
A PRODUCT OF THE
bujh bju
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” VoL 70~No. 3622
Wednesday, July 13, 1949
Price 6cL
Registered at the General Post Ofiice, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
T HE
entrance to Edinburgh Castle is
across a drawbridge over a moat
leading to the Portcullis Gate. In niches
on either side of this gateway stand the
bronze statues of Wallace and Bruce, the
national heroes of Scottish independence.
The two figures are in battle array, and
the sculptor of the Bruce was T. J. Clap-
perton. This statue was unveiled in
1929. The ceremony was performed by
His Majesty King George VI (then
H.R.H. the Duke of York).
Bruce was born in 1274, but the place
of his birth is disputed, as Lochmaben
and Turnberry both claim that honour.
On the death of his father in 1304
Bruce became sixth lord of Annandale.
At the beginning of his career he sup-
ported the English monarch, Edward I,
an oath which he renewed in 1297 at
Carlisle. Shortly after this, however, he
served with his vassals under Wallace,
the popular leader in the War of Inde-
pendence, but after the capitulation of
Irvine he was again !at peace with
Edward. In 1298 Bruce was once more
a rebel, whilst five years later he was
again fighting on the English side during
the siege of Stirling. Henceforward,
however, there was no vacillation, and
he was always a champion of Scotland’s
liberty, so that five hundred years later
he was the inspiration of many patriotic
songs.
The memorable episode of his career
was his defeat of the English at Bannock-
burn in 1314, for never again did an
English Monarch conquer Scotland.
Bruce died of leprosy in 1329, a disease
contracted during his many campaigns.
On his death his heart was extracted, em-
balmed and given to Sir James Douglas,
who was to have carried it to Jerusalem,
but he died in Spain fighting the Moors.
The relic was finally deposited in the
Monastery of Melrose and the body of
Bruce was buried in the Abbey Church,
Dunfermline, Bruce was distinguished
not only as a military genius but also as
an administrator and lawgiver, and was
beloved by the people whose rights he
championed.
SOTLAND REMEMBERT THE BRUCE


bubu
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT'S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
8.8. 149
AGE
The Red Page
PARTRIDGE FOR PLEASURE.
Eric Partridge’s English : A Course for
Human Beings (Winchester Publica-
tions) should really be reviewed by a
schoolmaster. Since the Red Page’s staff
consists entirely of escaped schoolboys,
nothing can be done about that; but
since Mr. Partridge hopes to please
pupils as much as their teachers, the
book may still, with caution, be
approached.
It evokes dim and direful memories:
of the agony of parsing, of the insoluble
mystery of the pluperfect progressive
subjunctive, of having to write an “ap-
preciation” of “Samson Agonistes”
when all one could really appreciate was
Mandrake the Magician, of English text-
books heavy with the solemnity of pro-
fessors and morbid with the dust of cen-
turies.
And it evokes these things by contrast:
for what Mr. Partridge is trying to do is
Jo write like a human being for human
beings, so that the study of English shall
become a pleasant human experience:
possibly not quite so immediately fas-
cinating as the eating of a pie or the
robbing of an orchard, but, at least, bear-
able in boyhood and afterwards to be of
eternal profit and delight;
We can think only with words. The
better we can use words, the better we can
think; the better we can think the better
we can use words. The better we can do
these two things, which are obviously
inseparable, the better we can live—by
being more useful and by being happier.
From clear thinking, and only from clear
thinking, comes clear action Yes, it’s a
hard life. You will constantly be exposed
to the onset of beauty, the dignity of
truth, the glory of integrity—things that
might create men and women out of you,
instead of robots or cogs in the industrial
machine. But if you wish to remain a
roughneck or a pain in the neck, a chatter-
ing parrot or a very dull owl, then imitate
the Nazis and burn every book con-
taminated with beauty or imagination or
understanding: like the Nazis you will
destroy your opportunities and stunt all
that in you which is superior to what you
would find in an intelligent monkey.
Nothing will induce the present re-
viewer to go right through the chapters
on grammar with Mr. Partridge; that is
for the young, for whom a certain amount
of torture is always desirable and, any-
how, always deserved. But it would seem
from glimpses of Mr. Partridge’s enthusi-
asm both for what he rightly calls “the
noble profession of teaching” and for
those who are taught, from his love of
literature, his genuine interest in the his-
tory of words and the mechanics of the
language, his sturdy commonsense and
his irascible humor that the torture here
is as mild as man can make it.
Going through the book at large there
is always something to please the general
reader as well as to instruct the innocent.
One likes Mr. Partridge’s impassioned en-
thusiasm for Shakspeare—“so great a
thinker about human destiny, so superb a
verbal musician, so skilled a master of
dramatic story, so penetrating a prober
into the characters of men and women, so
realistic a painter of life whether remark-
able or ordinary, and so masterly a
welder of all these aspects into a mag-
nificently orchestrated whole.” One likes
the way he quietly puts science in its
place: “Although science has done far
less for mankind than have the humani-
ties, or more widely, religion, philosophy,
literature and art....”
And, whether he is doing it to publi-
cise Australian literature abroad or to
make his book suitable —as it is—for Aus-
trailan schools as well as English and
American, one likes the way, in a test-
paper after the chapter on literary appre-
ciation, he casually introduces Adam
Lindsay Gordon in the company of Kip-
ling, Bret Harte and Robert Service and
asks his students to “Set what you think
to be a sensible examination paper on
(e) short stories by Edgar Allan Poe or
Washington Irving or Ambrose Bierce or
Robert Louis Stevenson or John Gals-
worthy or H. G. Wells or Henry Law-
son.”
Not only schoolboys and teachers, but
any young person who is attempting to
write short stories or poetry and, par-
ticularly, editors who have to read the
attempts of these young persons, should
be grateful to Mr. Partridge for his chap-
ters on story-writing and prosody. He
does not attempt to tell anyone how to
become Shakspeare, but he does explain
the elementary rules of metre —something
The Bulletin is frequently asked to do
—and his advice on the composition of
a short story is a sound basis for writers
of any age:
A story has a beginning, a middle and
an end: begin at the beginning, not before
it; the middle is the meat of the story;
the end comes at the end, not in the middle,
for it rounds off the story and concludes
it. Set the scene; come to the point and
stick to it; the point made, leave it quickly
and cleanly. Stick to the point: keep on
the highway and don’t go wandering into
odd comers and pretty lanes, however
attractive they are. By losing yourself you
lose your audience. Tell the story as
clearly, simply and sincerely as you can.
The book is intended “primarily for
schoolboys and schoolgirls of approxi-
mately 10 to 18 years of age,” and the
courses it supplies are designed to meet
the requirements of the usual junior and
senior examinations. And upon all who
have to pass such examinations may
Heaven, like Mr. Partridge, have mercy.
Tell the White Man.
Mr. W. E. Harney’s Brimming Billa-
bongs, reviewed last year on the Red
Page, purported to tell the life-story of an
aborigine in the aborigine’s own words.
And Mr. H. E. Thonemann’s Tell the
White Man (Gollins) also purports to tell
the life-story of an aborigine in the abori-
gine’s own words. Consequently it be-
comes increasingly necessary to tell the
white man not to pretend to be a dark
man.
Mr. Thonemann should have been
warned. He knows Mr. Hamey person-
ally ; one presumes he knows Mr.
Harney’s books; and Brimming Billa-
bongs, though by no means without merit,
is the least successful of those books.
One can see the temptation to indulge
in these literary impersonations. These
writers know the aborigine; Mr. Harney
is an acknowledged expert, and Mr.
Thonemann is the managing partner of
the famous The Elsey station, the home
of the aborigines he writes about, and his
book has the backing of Mrs. /Eneas
Gunn and Professor A. P. Elkin. And,
knowing everything about the aborigines
and having heard their stories from their
own lips, how tempting to let them tell
everything about themselves in their own
words, with all the authenticity of auto-
biography, with all the charm of sim-
plicity, with all the color of a naive and
personal vocabulary and style .. .
The result, as conceived in thie mind,
might be something like a play by Synge
in the rich idioms of the Irish. But then,
who could ever believe that an aboriginal
woman named Bunny—Mr. Thonemann’s
narrator —would really talk like this? :
The first division is into two groups,
which I shall call A and B. These two
groups are then each divided into four
sub-sections as under A boy in A group
can have a lubra only in group B, and
vice versa. The children remain in the
'same group as their mother, but belong to
a different sub-section. That section is
decreed by the tribal law of the Mungari.
If the lubra belongs to group A her children
belong to the section as shown in column
X, but if she belongs to group B they are
set out in column Y.
Yet this is supposed to be Bunny telling
us why, being young, she was married to
old Harry! Mr. Thonemann is not often
as far away from verisimilitude as this
(and, in fact, one seems’ to see the hand
of Professor Elkin in this chapter), but
when he is telling the history of The
Elsey—what explorers had wandered in
its neighborhood, how the station had
changed hands at various times and who
had managed it —one suspects that he is
using poor Bunny as a kind of ventrilo-
quist’s dummy, to say the things he wants
her to say. And, though one never doubts
the facts of Bunny’s life nor finds them
uninteresting, the appeal is in the facts
rather than the style.
To reproduce the talk accurately, at
such great length, is a task for a genius
among reporters; to select and arrange
the talk so that it makes a poetic kind of
prose is a task for.great literary skill.
The Welsh and Irish regional writers have
done something of the kind ; Roderick
Finlayson and others have done it with
the Maoris; but except in a few short
stories and, briefly, in a play by George
Landen Dann, the feat has hardly been
seriously attempted by Australian writers.
Mr. Thonemann achieves, at best, a
colorless simplicity. He would have done
much better to have told the story in his
own words.
His book remains interesting partly be-
cause a great deal of it is, after all, in his
own words rather than Bunny’s; and also
because, though at a distance through the
thin writing, something of Bunny’s per-
sonality is expressed; and most of all
because the facts are very good facts—
sometimes exciting, sometimes comic,
sometimes pathetic, always Australian.
There is the killing of a Duncan Camp-
bell who, in the early days, took a mob
of cattle to an *ion on the Strang-
ways and hunted tb. blacks away from
their water-supply. There are the abori-
gines lending their wives to visitors.
There are killings of Chinese. There is
Bunny’s confession that she killed her
babies at birth, and there is the account
of how Mr. Thonemann introduced a
“baby-bonus” to check this practice, with
excellent results:
The Boss gave us all a big talk and made
me promise to keep my next baby. He
asked us who would look after the country
if we killed all the piccaninnies. So each of
us promised not to kill any more. He also
reminded Jungle Dick that his lubra Topsy
was soon to have a baby, and that she had
not kept any of hers since Peggy was born
seven years ago. He asked Topsy to bring
her new baby to the house as soon as it
was bom. We were all very interested, as
it seemed an easy way to get food, and we
wondered if he meant what he said.
As well as the story of Bunny’s life —
which includes her two marriages and a
fascinating account of a 350-mile walk-
about, and which closes pathetically
when she is taken away ffom the station
as a suspected leper—the book is packed
with aboriginal lore. An exceptionally
mteresting chapter is a description of the
process of tree-burial, and there is also
the history of the station, in which, one
way or another, there figure Ludwig
Leichhardt, Mrs, Gunn, Francis Birtles,
Professor Elkin, Mr. Harney, the Duke
of Gloucester and “Chips” Rafferty.
For Quiz-kids, Etc.
It is easy to get lost in the 1242 pages
of The Reader’s Encyclopaedia, an
American job edited by William Rose
Bendt, printed in America and published
under the mark of Harraps of London,
but the reviewer now tears himself away
to report that the following Australians
have been marked present:
Boldrewood, Rolf ; Lindsay, Norman ;
Lindsay, Jack; Stead, Christina, “Aus-
tralian-born American novelist” ; Henry
Handel Richardson, “Australian-born
novelist.”
Absent (without our leave) are
Marcus Clarke, Tom Collins, Steele Rudd,
Henry Lawson and, among poets,
Gordon, Paterson, McCrae, Brennan.
And, of course, others.
However, there seems still to be a con-
siderable amount of writing in English
by authors other than Australian; the
book has as good and simple a diagnosis,
section-by-section, of Eliot’s “Waste
Land” as we have seen; a complete ball-
by-ball analysis of Joyce’s Ulysses and
Finnegans Wake; a summary (which will
probably be all that this reviewer will
ever know) of Tasso’s Jerusalem De-
livered ; and, indeed, would seem to
summarise most of the world’s best-known
poems and novels.
It is also a dictionary of the best-known
literary characters from the Dickens
menagerie to Nick Carter. There is a
list of the world’s principal saints; an
entertaining catalogue of the world’s most
famous misprint-Bibles (which we seem
to have seen printed recently in Aus-
tralia, no doubt from some other source);
and such information as that Leslie Char-
teris who writes “the Saint” stories is
really Leslie Charles Bowyer Lin, his
father a Chinese surgeon, his mother an
Englishwoman.
As might be expected in a work cover-
ing mythology, history, biographies of
authors, plots of novels and plays, de-
scriptions of music and works of art,
some of the information is a bit sketchy ;
for example, Shaw is identified as Irish,
but the book failed to settle an argument
whether he was born in Dublin or Bel-
fast, On the other hand, it has already
been useful to The Bulletin in deciding
that Queen Zuleika in a recent Ethel
Anderson story was one and the same
with Potiphar’s wife.
Its value to Australian authors who,
not having been included, might welcome
a chance to explode, is obvious; as also
is its appeal to the general reader, to
librarians and to crossword-puzzle fiends
and quiz-kids.
An Observer of Foxes.
In books of nature one looks for the
rarity, the fact not previously observed ;
or, if the fact is unavoidably familiar,
such as that skylarks sing, the descrip-
tion requires an intensity that makes it
live with fresh force, Mr. B. Melville
Nicholas, whose Wisest in the Wilds
(Macdonald) is about foxes in England,
records the obvious and does not write
with intensity.
What a fox eats, for instance, is of
interest to those who care for such
things; but Mr. Nicholas’s opening re-
marks, at least, on that subject, are
astoundingly lacking in news-value: —0
Very few things come amiss to the fox’s
omnivorous appetite, and its menu is a
most varied one. Generally speaking, how-
ever, I regard rabbits as the mainstay of its
dietary.
Even more astonishingly, Mr. Nicholas
observes of the nightingale;
Another bird whose name also suggests
nocturnal activities is the nightingale. This
bird is also a summer visitor to our country.
showing distinct preference for the south
and south-eastern counties. It is famous
for its vocal ability and is, without doubt,
the finest songster to be heard in the
British Isles.
One cannot imagine these common-
places being of interest to anyone ex-
cept a child of two ; and that is a pity,
because Mr. Nicholas goes on to describe
nightingales singing in a thunderstorm—
a scene by no means commonplace—
and he does know a lot about foxes, in-
cluding how to tame and rear them.
He says that in an old earth, well-
tunnelled, foxes will live in a com-
munity without knowing each other, like
people in flats; that they (foxes) don’t
customarily kill near their homes; that
he has seen a fox eating blackberries ;
that, though the pairs separate when the
young are reared, foxes (unlike people
in flats) marry for life; that he has seen
a fox sham dead to deceive unwary
fowls into coming up and inspecting the
body; and that he has heard tame foxes
mew like a cat and bleat like a sheep
. . . and on all such occasions as this —as
well as in the fine wild-life photographs
which illustrate the book —Mr. Nicholas
is worth attention.
If the book is thin for adult reading,
it could be offered with confidence to
Boy Scouts; or, particularly. Cubs.
Reviewed Briefly .
Selected Stories: Malachi Whitaker
(Cape). Yorkshire slices of life; mostly
lemon.
* * * ♦
When the Wind Blows: Cyril Hare
(Faber). This finely written and charac-
terised story of the murder of a world-
famous woman violinist in the artist’s
room of the Markhampton City Hall
where she is waiting to go on stage to
play the Mendelssohn with the County
Orchestral Society shows how hard it is
to succeed with the detective story. The
plot is faultless, simple, new and satis-
fying, but is presented with so little sus-
pense as to seem more like the demonstra-
tion of a theorem than an exciting
mystery.
* * * *
Six Tales of Sam Pig; The Weather
Cock' and Other Tales: Alison Uttley
(Faber). The first book deals with further
adventures of Sam Pig, with dragons,
cuckoo-clocks and robbing orchards ; the
second is about a variety of persons,
fieldmice, bumblebees, weathercocks, pie-
bald ponies, hedgehogs and moles, and
also about the adventures of mustard,
pepper and salt pots.
* * * *
The first copy of Harrap’s Holborn
Library sent for inspection is a reprint
of James Morier’s Hajji Baba of Ispahan,
the picaresque adventures of the son of a
Persian barber, as suave, corrupt and
ruthless as his environment; taken by
Turcomen; salesman of dung-laden
tobacco ; executioner ; lawyer’s scribe ;
Shah’s Deputy. His treatment of Zeenab,
his beloved, after they had feasted and
sung songs: “It was still quite early, and
we had much time before us. ‘Zeenab’,
said I, ‘you have long promised to tell me
the history of your life Hardly
how a modern novelist would fill in the
evening, but maybe the origin of the
modern saying, “Tell me all about your
life.” The Holborn Library, clothbound,
well printed, titled in silver, on good
white paper, with portrait of the author,
lists forthcoming books by Thackeray,
Trollope, Scott, Austen, Stevenson,
Gibbon, Dickens, Macaulay, Cobbett, etc.
* * * *
The Ethics of Advertising: F. P.
Bishop (Hale). Mr. Bishop knows what
he is talking about—he was for many
years advertising manager of London
“Times”—and his conversation is of much
more general interest than might be sup-
posed. He deals with the kind of adver-
tising that frightens you into buying
something for fear that you will lose your
personal fragrance and your job; with
the startling proposals of a British in-
ventor to write phosphorescent advertise-
ments on the night-sky; with the prob-
lems of radio advertising, discussing
which he notes that the 8.8. C. is “desper-
ately hampered by its inability to deter-
mine its own aims” and suggests that
Britain should have a “mixed system” of
commercial and Government broadcast-
ing as in Australia and Canada ; with the
threat to freedom that would arise from
a Government monopoly of advertising;
and with the technique of totalitarian
propaganda: on all of which subjects his
views are moderate, and his style pleasant.
* * * *
Postage Stamps in the Making: John
Easton (Faber). This is based on a book
by Fred J. Melville, the first part of
which was published in 1916 and which
was never completed. Mr. Easton has
rewritten the earlier book, expanded it
and brought it up to date. It is a highly
technical work, explaining precisely how
stamps are made, of interest to printers
and to collectors whose passion is exalted
far beyond the ordinary.


•TRUTH MIN ADVERTISING”
rtmm phew
Quality baggage for every kind of travel
s.-.
SS£
i
1 ,:T. _
/7i
—«
C^S^W >T:^% flj&v
»
/||
\
a«fesD
BsS
pK
M
»
iSpI
ODI3
k Jap ;
ft-
&
H
a
»v *
y
' i
!**ss
II
. ■ * , : : ‘ ‘
» «>*?
f J\
O)
IN
non
■# t-i * *
i „II \ \ I w #
t j4Sr\\ I ir^^PiSl
%
>/»»»
✓
spiiPlk.
&,, -,, \ ISS
■ iv
4"t
s&v
sss*a
I 1
I.': 1
!»$
BS
s m?**
■ P
M^;TT : ‘rr^
BS3
■
f-'
X
/S* : »!*!#..
* • * ,*
v - Wmmik* 1 - -, ,
fift » j
m
4
■
I • -
»
afea
.-« 5
I i |
m. \ i y
..._x
o;
r/J B
ft
■
£6/2/-
■> : : i ■
m
;k
so ■
iw
t~ !
lpK>
~ Vl. m. IgOBBI
t®% . , \\)
: % v V. 1
i ft *. v. 1
■ . *BSk ;.. •'> h > #.
-. . \ •
umM
I*:'
< • \ \\i®
£lO/15/9
l| ‘J
4»^
95/6
//V
i!
i m
~ r.
.i-i
\ .
\
m
iV; ;.vj/i
Hp
il
,Vii
★
Ag?
<r
.■&*•.' ’tv~ s :■'".
/>. / .■-,■■
"" .ir- v ' -r v
£7/10/3
L 1 V v x
;,,r v ' . ■ ■ ■
'
•iL 'V
il
• .
•- j
-- :/:•
I Im ;
■
£l2
Hat Box in grained
hide. Ideal for
packing shoes or
hats. Price, £6/2/-.
Grip Bag of grained
hide with inside
pocket. Price, 95/6.
Blouse Case with
full length twin slide
lock fasteners. £l2.
Rug. Pure wool,
check design,
with fringed
ends. 63/-.
Above.
Hide Suitcase.
Capped corners,
two English locks
20in., 81/--
Air Travel Bag
in grained hide with
waterproof inner
pocket. £7/10/3
Airway Case
of croc-grain,
rounded front.
Price, £lO/15/9.
Special Notice
To our Country and Interstate
Customers
Owing to the drastic curtailment of prac-
tically all RAIL TRANSPORT, we have
to advise that although we are still
accepting orders as usual, delays in the
despatching of same are unavoidable.
You have our assurance that, immediately
the restrictions on RAILWAY TRANS-
PORT are “EASED” or LIFTED, every
endeavour will be made to despatch
Merchandise which has been awaiting
shipment BY THE FASTEST POSSIBLE
ROUTE.
’PHONE; M 2401; BOX 2712 C, G.P.O. SYDNEY


The bulletin
Vol. 70 —No. 3622
Wednesday, July 13, 1949
“ONLY A BIRD IN A GI-I-I-LDED CAGE.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 252IBB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathans Buildings ( opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
SOCIALISM IS SICK.
The first two weeks of the Communist
“cold war” in Australia, as opened with
the general stoppage of coal production,
revealed the two Socialist Governments
responsible for the carrying-on of that
industry as simply marking time. The
N.S.W. Government did nothing whatever
except cut down gradually all use of
coal, light and power by transport, in-
dustry and householders. The Chifley
Ministry in Canberra passed legislation to
“freeze” the funds of the mining unions
and all other unions adhering to the Com-
munist strike-leaders, and then sat down
for “a reasonable period” to allow the
miners to perceive the errolr of their
ways and allow other developments to
take their course.
Meanwhile the Dark Ages returned in
every capital city in Australia, and our
way of life steadily approximated to
that of so many Hottentots. Steelworks
and allied industries were all shut down
and cold. Unemployment throughout
Australia far exceeded that figure so
often quoted by “Labor” in its con-
demnation of the Premiers’ Plan in the
pre-Socialistic 19305. A§ he wrung his
hands over a scene littered with the wreck
of eighbyears of Socialist policy in action,
Mr. Chifley became almost incoherent:
There could be no more unfortunate
period for action of this kind [that of the
Communist union-bosses] The whole
economic and social life of the nation is
approaching complete disruption. Living
conditions for many are becoming com-
pletely intolerable hardship that is com-
pletely unjustifiable
This strike is a revolt against the whole
community. The Communist section of the
miners’ leaders want no law but their own,
and are recklessly ready to sabotage Aus-
tralian industry in order to achieve their
ends.
These words, matched by utterances of
the British Prime Minister against Soviet
Russia, and describing British strikers as
“the tools of an alien dictatorship....
of people who would like to see our great
social democratic experiment fail,” are
the language of national leaders be-
wildered and at bay before relentless
hostile forces. ' “The great experiment,”
that of socialising industry, production,
distribution and exchange in the two lead-
ing “sterling areas” of the British Com-
monwealth, is indeed failing, and the con-
centrated attack by Communists directed
from Moscow is hastening the collapse.
This is no longer “mere capitalist Press
opinion,” as the Canberra Socialists have
hitherto insisted. It is the conviction of
Mr. Chifley himself, as advertised by his
authorisation in that same “capitalist
Press” throughout Australia.
Mr. Chifley’s phrase, “There could be
no more unfortunate period for action
of this kind,” refers of course to the sud-
denly acute Socialist crisis in Britain fol-
lowing upon the Attlee Government’s in-
ability to earn the dollars it needs. That
inability extends to the whole sterling
area, British and European, and the
causes are the failure of British exports
to meet the price demands of an inter-
national buyers’ market, and the falling-
off of North American purchases with
this turn in market trends and with the
“recession” in U.S.A. In London at the
conference on the dollar crisis Mr. Ded-
man will come to close quarters with
British Ministers’ call for collaboration
in expedients of the Cripps “disinflation”
policy. Melbourne “Age’s” London
correspondent reports Whitehall as ex-
pecting that the Attlee Government will
have to order: —
A longer working-week suspension
“temporarily” of the 40-hour week and
substitution of 48 hours.
The cutting of tobacco, petrol, news-
print and some food imports (but not films
because of an agreement with Hollywood).
An “easing of social-services expenditure”
until the economic situation improves.
Wages and salaries to be kept in step
with production—no pay-increases without
harder work.
Workers must be ready to change jobs
and go where they are sent.
Sir Stafford Cripps and Mr. Herbert
Morrison have more or less vaguely
adumbrated all these measures during the
past three weeks. They are the inexor-
able guide-posts to maintenance under
Socialism of “full employment.” Mr.
Chifley knows this as well as he knows
anything, only he has not yet been game
to come out with it.
The inevitable penalty of Socialist fool-
ishness is now descending upon Socialist
heads, as well as upon those who were
duped into voting for Socialist policy.
Prime Minister Attlee himself confessed
the root of the trouble at the recent
Blackpool conference of the British
Socialist party. Their problem, he said,
was not only “a right division of the
nation’s worth, but full production of
the nation’s worth.” That was his way
of saying that wealth could not be dis-
tributed henceforth without being first
produced. And then:
When you depart from laissez-faire
[Socialist current phrase for good old
private enterprise] and from Governments
washing their hands of economy [which is
just nonsense as criticism of Socialism’s
opponents], you come down to constant
day-by-day work of economic planning,
which is a tremendous burden on the
economic Ministers. *
As a matter of experience, management
of such detail is beyond their capacity.
When Cabinet Ministers try both to ad-
minister State affairs and control the
working of every industry supporting the
State revenues. Parliamentary democracy
comes to an end and Ministers of neces-
sity become dictators and must rule by
decree sustained on force.
In compound effect the “cold war” in
Australia, and the “sterling crisis” which
puts Australia in the same boat with
Britain, should bring the Chifley Govern-
ment straight up against the same troubles
which have smitten British Socialist
Ministers in their calamitous “experi-
ment.” “Full, employment,” borne easily
on a world-wide sellers’ market, has
been no spectacular feat of Socialist Gov-
ernments. The real test is at hand ; and
it demands, as British Ministers have
said, harder work for no extra pay, and
perhaps directed work also. They have
got to reduce drastically their swollen
Government expenditure, whether they
call the process disinflation or anything
else. Mr. Chifley has been very slow to
admit the same obvious requirement
here also. When'he came back from his
dollar-seeking trip to London a year ago
he was asked by reporters what his radio
appeal for “hard work” meant —did it
mean a need to work for longer hours
again? Mr. Chifley replied that he had
not considered it in this light! And he
has shown no signs of considering it since.
The Communists’ coal strike has ruined
his “full-employment” plans. The country
can’t work, even under Socialist dictator-
ship over industry, without much more
coal and steel than has been produced
ever since the Chifley Government came
to office. Coal and steel are necessary
for the boasted blueprints for £6OO-
- of public works if a “re-
cession” comes. Through persisting with
its own disruptive programme of socialis-
ing industry and playing along with the
Communists in the past, the Government
has brought on the “recession” it affected
to insure against.
Whatever shifts Mr. Chifley must ac-
cept from the London conference, he
must either win this showdown at home
with the Communists on the coalfields,
or forfeit office. The essential points of
victory over those “rebels against the
whole community” are:
That pillar coal shall be mechanically
extracted from the mines without further
delay, as a first step to thorough modernisa-
tion of coal-winning methods.
That the daily output per man-shift shall
increase to its natural and reasonable
volume with the installation of labor-saving
machinery in mining and extracting coal
from the face.
That discipline shall be restored and
maintained in the pits by the same authority
which pronounces upon the justice of
rewards claimed and improved “amenities”
expected.
That every possible improvement in hours
and pay, along with long-service leave, shall
be steadily sought and implemented by the
controlling management, along with ad-
mittedly vast reforms in mining practice—
these things step by step with that increase
in production which alone can justify the
huge costs of the reforms needed.
By insisting that these terms shall be
assured in the eventual coal settlement —
even if such insistence means legislating
for the banning of any Communist from
holding office in any trade-union —Mr.
Chifley will at last be living up to the
spirit of his exhortation to the miners
last year: “Vote for whom you like,
but for God’s sake do your best for
Australia.”
The Wasted Years.
The seven and a half years during which
“Labor” has sat in office in Canberra
have truly been “years that the locusts
have eaten.” We have been robbed of
the industrial opportunities and advan-
tages that were ours when the war ended.
One has only to cast an eye about and
look at the work of a constructional
nature that was done under the political
and economic conditions which existed
before the war, and use the same eye to
search for what has been done since;
and the second look provides no eyeful.
In the days when Australia was not afraid
of energetic work an admirable amount
of building, road-making, harbor-con-
struction and general development went
on; diplomats visiting Australia today
have commented on the great achieve-
ments during Australia’s first 150 years
of existence, .while shrugging their
shoulders at what they see going on now.
The past decade has certainly told a very
different story.
The war, of course, interrupted our
economic development, or directed it
along military lines for the time being.
But the war has been over in the Pacific
for nearly four years, and yet we are
nowhere like being back to the pre-war
standard of development. Maybe in some
things output is a little higher—in bulk
—than before the war. But it has not
risen in proportion to the increased plant
capacity (where an increase has been pos-
sible), capital or manpower employed.
Australian output of steel, which rose to
1,697,000 tons during 1941-42, in spite of
enemy sinkings of ore-carriers, was down
to 1,315,000 tons in 1947-48. During
the current year it is down further. Cities
and industries are blacked-out because
of lack of coal; wire-netting and gal-
vanised-iron badly needed to keep rural
industries going are being imported at
fantastic prices because of the disruption
at our own steelworks, and the country’s
productive forces are daily becoming more
decrepit because there are not enough
raw materials and essential products to
cope with wear, tear and obsolescence.
Housing is tragically in arrears.
That is the story of “full employment”
under “Labor.” Output per man per
hour has fallen disgracefully, and a
stranglehold has been kept on the output
of coal and steel by the militant and
Communist - controlled trade - unions.
Even the wool industry has been re-
stricted.
The Bulletin long ago pointed out
the deterioration of Australia’s position
on the industrial-equipment side, and
years ago began directing attention to the
demoralisation of trade-unionism under
“Labor” Governments. Our tools of pro-
duction and our manpower at present
are below standard ; and it is manpower
which has to make the first resurgence
if we are to recover. In Britain, bad
and all as things are economically, out-
put per man per hour has risen by 8 p.c.
since 1938. In Australia there has been
an inexcusable decline in that time,
especially in the coal, stevedoring,
shipping and “heavy” industries.
For years the “Labor” Socialists and
their adherents, full of envy and ambi-
tion but without real ability, have been
exploiting the fruits of a past cen-
tury’s hard work and thrift. By their
squanderings “Labor” politicians have
been making fine fellows of themselves
in the eyes of shortsighted trade-
unionists. But a reckoning is approach-
ing. Not even socialisation of finance —
that Socialist anaesthetism of capitalism
—can much longer disguise the trouble
we shall shortly be in. World competi-
tion is again becoming acute; overseas
prices are falling, and the country with
the poorest man-hour output is going to
be the worst sufferer. Only the-extremely
high prices and favorable conditions
attached to wool, Australia’s principal
export, have so far saved us from feeling
the draught caused by the general decline
in overseas raw-material prices.
Mr. Chifley himself is beginning to
admit the truth of many contentions made
in these pages and elsewhere outside
his party over the past seven years.
He»is now concerned, it would appear,
about our arrears of capital re-equip-
ment, and output of industry generally.
But the decay in our economy has been
of his own and his party’s making, even
to the white-anting caused by the Com-
munist party, the Corns having originally
been indistinguishable from some of the
“Labor” groups.
“Labor”-unionism in Australia, too
easily led by Communists, has linked its
“full-employment” policy with “organised
scarcity.” In any debate in the Federal
House dealing with the need for greater
industrial production there is sure to be
a “Labor” member who will decry efforts
to produce more goods lest extra produc-
tion should put some trade-unionist “on
the dole.” “Labor” thus admits that it
is incapable of raising living standards;
in a properly-regulated economy all pro-
duction should have a market, with no
danger of unemployment (but rather a
higher living standard) inherent in greater
output per man,
“Organised scarcity” and paper-money
“prosperity” have been the chief pro-
ducts of “Labor” and Socialism since
the war ended, but neither can be ex-
ported and sold on the world’s markets.
It is amazing that they have been sale-
able for so long to Australian voters.
Melbourne in Strike-time.
To one long inured to the Golden Age
as made manifest in Sydney there is some-
thing fabulous about Melbourne. Exist-
ing in this supposedly stodgy city is like
crossing the Styx into the dear, dead half-
forgotten world before 1939.
Few dilapidated buildings, no untidy
gardens, no rushing young yahoos in the
trains and trams, waiters who can wait,
menus which include several kinds of
fish, large and luscious oranges six for a
shilling on barrows which operate openly
in the main streets, and generally an air
of wellbeing and content are features of
life in a city where each street seems to
be a harmonious whole and spires and
cathedrals are complete and satisfying to
behold against a wintry sky.
There is general courtesy of a kind
which used to be normal in all Australian
cities. Waiters call you “sir,” as if they
felt they did not demean themselves by
doing it. Taxi-drivers, as a matter of
course, carry your luggage into hotels.
Dressing among all classes seems to
be smarter and more original than in the
City of Darkness and McGirr. There is
an obvious absence of the teeming horde
of varicolored police who boss Sydney’s
denizens with waving arms or sticks of
chalk and parking-notebooks; the cars
and pedestrians move in orderly and
obedient streams in response to the light-
signals. Once one is used to the light
system, and has overcome the feeling that
at any moment a blue menace may
emerge from the ground to ask “Where
do you think you’re going?” you may
make street crossings more safely than
in Sydney.
There is probably as much gambling
in Melbourne as in any large city, but
lotteries are noticeably absent and
apparently unmissed.
A curious and archaic feature of life
here is the abundance, excellence and
flavor of the local beer, which co-exists
with bars which in good order and clean-
liness compare favorably with those of
the old days and resemble not at all the
hog-troughs of Sydney.
The striking feature about these caverns
where it is possible to imbibe with a foot
on a brass rail instead of amid a sway-
ing mass of fellow-wallowers is the dis-
cipline which is imposed by the licensing
laws. Six o’clock is six o’clock in Mel-
bourne. At that sad hour the beer goes
off on the stroke of the clock, glasses
are drained with a gulp and those who
are not dining on the premises may just
as well go home.
No latitude is allowed anywhere to
anyone, but you can drink with dinner
from 6.30 to 8 p.m. when supplies are
again cut off with a bang. The kind of
night-clubs which bespatter Sydney would
have short shrift here. In place of them
there are abundant good Italian
restaurants.
Bookshops—one wonders how they
carry on. They are excellent shops and are
scattered all over the city. If you want
a new book you are likely to find a book-
seller to provide it at most within a few
hundred yards. This abundance has its
reflection in the general interest in the
institutions which deal with art and
literature.
Perhaps the fact that the Public Library
and Art Gallery are in a simple building,
and that this is on a tramline near the
heart of the city, instead of out in the
middle of a bleak paddock beyond the
howling melee of the Sydney Domain,
accounts for the polling crowds which
pass through the gallery of a Sunday
afternoon.
At time of writing the Library has an
exhibition of ancient illuminated manu-
scripts and of books of Common Prayer
and other works, addenda to the various
editions, and it is a curious commentary
on the fixed belief of Sydney purveyors
of food for the human intellect and sense
of beauty to note the crowds passing
through these' exhibits with their great
leaven of working people and of the
young. The truth is apparent that
the ordinary man can be made to appre-
ciate art which is not the art of Dobell,
and that his interest and curiosity can be
whetted even by volumes on volumes of
the Book of Common Prayer, provided
they are properly arranged and an-
notated.
“Gas may be cut off after July 15 or 18,
says Premier,” is one of today’s headings
in the Press, and State Electricity has
only enough black coal in sight to main-
tain present restricted supplies until the
end of August, after which industry would
have to be rationed one day in three,
though there will be rationing of one
day in five after July 11 —probably on
Mondays—to everybody except essential
users, such as food industries, hospitals,
doctors, newspapers, broadcasting stations
and primary producers, the blackout
applying to trams and trains and places
of entertainment. Gas, of course, in
domestic use is strictly limited, but wood
fires and Yallourn help considerably.
It is quite obvious that this is not part
of the Promised Land. No totalitarian re-
strictions and controls like those imposed
by the Government of the Four Freedoms
in Macquarie-street where Mr. Mc-
Girr rules. Generally speaking, the
blight of Hollway Liberalism is obviously
over the land in a city where the first
exclamation of the arriving Sydneysider
today is usually: “Now I can have a
really hot meal —and a bath!”
EK D.


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Outlaws.
Defiance by Communist union executives
of the law and of Government authority
—a defiance deliberate, persistent and
impenitent —has now been demonstrated
in its true colors. It led last week to the
imprisonment for contempt of court of
L. J. McPhillips, of the Ironworkers (six
months), and J. H. King, of the Miners
(a month), upo« orders of the Arbitra-
tion Court sitting in Sydney, following
application by the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment under the National Emergency
(Coal Strike) Act to require payment into
court of some £54,000 of union funds
withdrawn from sundry banks allegedly
for support of the strike. The Iron-
workers’ Federation was also fined £lOOO,
and its Sydney branch secretary, K. P.
McKeon, £lOO.
When J. H. King, secretary of the
Western Miners’ Union —having ad-
mitted he was one of the signatories to
a cheque on which £4500 was drawn
from a bank, and that he had per-
sonally received the money for the
cheque —said he knew, but refused to
say, where the money was, he was
promptly committed to Long Bay jail
for a month. Thereafter Idris Williams,
president of the Miners’ Federation, in a
Press statement declared that:
In view of the action of the court the
Coalmining Unions Council had no alter-
native but to discuss immediately the with-
drawal of safety men from mines through-
out Australia.
We have warned the authorities time and
again that the Miners’ Federation will not
stand for the jailing of any official or
member.
They hold themselves above the law and
defy the law to assert itself. The court,
on Monday, gave Williams and secre-
tary Grant 12 months’ jail and fined the
Miners’ Federation £2OOO.
Williams’s is the controlling influence
on the miners’ executive, which recently
announced that that union “never has
and never will accept”* the arbitration
law of the land as a means of settling
disputes. That is and has been the Com-
munists’ attitude in Australian industry
ever since 'the late Tom Walsh announced
it, in much the same terms. On behalf
of the Seamen’s Union 25 years ago. It
has been exemplified in aggravated form
during all the Communist-manufactured
strikes of the past three years. Of the
Communist strike-leaders during the
blockade of Queensland in 1947 Premier
Hanlon of that State said;
They have decreed that the law shall be
violated and that their will shall prevail—
not the will of Parliament, not the deci-
sions of a court established by law.
Further, they threaten violence to anyone
who dares to obey the order of the court.
... .This challenge to constituted govern-
ment has all the elements of a civil war.
The challenge thrown down now is to
Federal and State Governments alike, in
face of the Prime Minister’s statement
that, the only settlement of this strike
must be through arbitration before the
tribunal constituted to deal with it.
Federal law had already been defied by
the metal-workers (through a Concilia-
tion Commissioner), the watersiders (with
contempt of the Stevedoring Tribunal)
and the Building Workers’ Union (de-
registered). These organisations are all
controlled by Communist executives, and
the ringleaders in the present “revolt
against the whole community” (Mr.
Chifley’s words) have not hesitated to
proclaim themselves outlaws. “Fixer”
Ashley has come down to stating publicly,
as he did at the Maitland conference on
Sunday, that “the Communist miners’
leaders are trying to implement a foreign
Power’s policy.”
They have now declared “black” all
mined coal available at pit-heads, and
threatened, by withdrawing safety-
workers, to destroy the mines. When the
Opposition demanded to know how far
this outlawry was to be tolerated by the
Government, Mr. Chifley, refusing to
make answer on the point, hurriedly
cleared the business-paper and sent Par-
liament into recess. He may have to re-
summon it in the effort—if that is his
purpose—to get coal.
Pounds, Dollars and Costs.
Britain’s purchases from the United
States are not being fully paid for by
goods sold to North America and the
loans received under Marshall Aid:
there was a decline of £65 million ster-
ling in the gold and dollar reserves of
the sterling area in the three months
ended June 30. The reserves now stand
at £406 million. Hence, although Staf-
ford Cripps told the House of Com-
mons last week that “our production is
at a record level and our exports are as
high as they have ever been,” also that
“we have practically reached a state of
over-all balance in our overseas trade,”
a crisis has developed in respect of dol-
lar trade that “calls for immediate cor-
rective action as well as for longer-term
and more fundamental measures.”
Severe reactions on all British Com-
monwealth purchases of American goods
are forecast. Mr. Chifley has directed
the Department of Trade and Customs
to “issue licences only for urgently-
needed commodities, and then on a very
restricted basis.” During the 11 months to
May 31 the unfavorable balance of Aus-
tralia’s trade with North America (includ-
ing Canada) was £ll.l million, which com-
pares with £42.7 million for the preced-
ing year. Additional exports to Canada,
combined with a severe slash in imports
from the U.S.A., were responsible foi
the improvement in the Australian posi-
tion. Australia is not a recipient of
Marshall Aid. Its sterling balances are
WASHING HIS HANDS OF IT NOW,
"on sept.25, 1945, Prime Minister Chifley said: 'I shall not at any time join in a crusade to crucify the workers.'
on uly, 6, 1949, Mr. Chifley refused to call aggregate meetings of striking coalminers, a course suggested to him as a
means of ending the Australia-wide unemployment of wage-earners, and the lack of domestic and industrial power and
arising from the Communist-created coal strike. He refused to introduce the compulsory secret ballot at union meetings."
high—about £392 million —but dollars are
another story.
Stafford Cripps says that, in spite of
the gloom in the present picture, Britain
has “not the slightest intention of de-
valuing the pound sterling.” Instead he
is exhorting wage-earners and the civil
service to become more efficient —to do
more work and to bring costs down.
(The U.K. is feeling the sharpened edge
to competition in overseas markets.) He
said that he did not want the British
standard of living to be lowered, but
lowered it would be if there were de-
mands for rises in wages or stoppages in
industry—“while we have no desire to
cut wages, we must and can cut down
costs, and this we can do if we increase
our efficiency of production.” It seems
as though Cripps at least among the
British Socialists has set a limit in his
mind on the progress of inflation, and
that the United Kingdom economy is to
be anchored to a four-dollar pound in
spite of the rising economic seas.
Sharpley in the Box.
Cecil Sharpley, whose newspaper
articles were a prime factor in moving
the Victorian Government to set up a
Royal Commission into the activities of
the Communist party, was in the witness-'
box all last week. He told the Commis-
sioner he had left the party because he
disagreed with the Cominform’s policy in
relation to the establishment of Socialism
in Australia and elsewhere. Speaking of
Victoria, he had found that Communist
tactics were worsening more and more the
conditions of the working people and
that the Socialist objective was not being
properly served. In particular, he had
disagreed with E. F. Hill’s “methods of
personal intimidation, with his directions
for the use of physical violence at union
meetings, aftd his instances of ballot-
rigging in unions.” (E. F. Hill is a Mel-
bourne barrister appearing for tfie Com-
munist party before the Commission;
he is a member of the Victorian executive
of the Communist party.)
Sharpley reeled off a long list of names
of persons he claimed were members of
the party. Many were trade-union
officials, but the list also included journa-
lists, teachers, doctors and civil servants.
Some were known members, others he
said were undercover men. He also gave
a list of fellow-travellers and persons con-
sidered to be “open to influence.” This
evidence brought protests from several
of those mentioned. The Commissioner
said they would be given an opportunity
to appear before the Commission later.
Other evidence given by Sharpley told
of the origins of the Eureka Youth
League, which he said had replaced the
Young Democrats’ League, which in turn
was the successor of the Young Com-
munist League. He told the Commis-
sioner that although he was not prepared
to say that everyone associated with Aus-
tralia-Soviet House - (Melbourne) was a
Communist, he would say that the party
made sure it could control the policy of
the place. On the subject of Communism
and the Returned Soldiers League he
said that when the League decided to
ban Reds from membership “secret”
Communists were told to continue their
work in the League and to deny party
membership if challenged on the subject.
Sharpley was still in the box when the
court adjourned for the week-end. He
had told of an alleged plot to seize the
offices and property of the Bricklayers’
Union last year. The scheme had mis-
fired because “a wealthy Toorak woman,”
a big contributor to party funds, had
spoken to the wrong person. As an in-
stance of ballot-rigging he claimed that
an Actors’ Equity meeting had been
rigged by sending along a batch of bogus
members, with forged credentials, to pack
the meeting.
Threat to Sugar Industry.
When Queensland Canegrowers Council
heard that a Dr. Cecil Hearman had had
the face to say that sugar didn’t provide
energy, and that Australians ate too
much of it and by so doing injured both
the national tooth and the national health,
it was about to grab the nearest cane-
knife and hunt him up when it was dis-
covered that the fellow not only dwelt in
chilly Melbourne, but was a lecturer in
preventive dentistry at that city’s uni-
versity. Whereupon the council invited
Dr. Hearman to drop in some time.
He did, accompanied by Dr. Brian
Ferguson, of the Australian Dental
Association, and what they had to say so
startled the council that it was decided to
see what the Sugar Board, the C.S.R. and
the Australian Sugar Producers’ Associa-
tion thought about setting up a research
foundation to look into the whole thing.
“For,” said one of the council shakily,
“if Australians eat less sugar to the ex-
tent Dr. Hearman suggests one of its
(Continued at foot of next page.)


For your throat’s sake
CRAVENA'
Always reliable
Obtainable In
10’s & 20’s
CARRERAS LiMITEP ■ OVER 150 YEARS
M
8905 E-R
REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
major industries can prepare for an in-
glorious exit.”
Precisely what Dr. Hearman did sug-
gest isn’t clear, but the proposed research
would include the question of fortifying
refined sugar to improve its dietetic value,
its importance as a relish agent for un-
palatable foods, and ways and means of
altering “the timing and manner” of eat-
ing sugar. The council is optimistic
enough to believe that such research
might prove our sugar-eating habits
wrong, and, once that is proved and the
right way to eat it is established, sugar
consumption would increase. No mention
was made of the sugar-content of rum,
yo-ho, nor of the simple bushman who
likes his tea hot, black and syrupy.
Nor was it explained just how the
average Australian, who likes his sugar as
he likes it and goes by the taste as to
whether he is getting enough of it, could
be persuaded to alter the “time and
manner” of eating it. Heavens, are we
now to be invited to take our sugar by
the dose ?
POLITICAL POINTS
The Mudpuddle Martyrs.
Whether the orgy of Press advertis-
ing resorted to by the Federal and New
South Wales Governments will play any
great part in settling the strike remains
to be seen, but one effect is certain —it
has placed on permanent record beyond
all question the attitude of official
“Labor” towards the dispute. When the
trouble is over and the dust of the
scuffle has cleared away there will doubt-
less, as ever, be plenty of “Labor” boys,
inside and outside Parliament, only too
willing to forget the facts and spout the
present Communist line that the whole
thing was framed by the mine-owners
and the anti-“ Labor” parties. Their guns
are spiked in advance. The Common-
wealth ads. were “authorised by the
Prime Minister of Australia” ; the N. S.
Wales half-pages were even more ex-
plicit—they appeared over the signature
of James McGirr, “Labor Premier of
New South Wales.” The prefixing of a
party label to a title denoting the leader
of one of His Majesty’s Governments is
in very poor taste, but it will at least
make it harder for malcontents in the
party to disown the policy later on.
Ward, bawling at the rate of 200 words
a minute or thereabouts on the Ligert-
wood report, and attacking Garden’s
barrister in terms which would have
brought him an immediate writ had he
been man enough to waive Parliamentary
privilege, ranted for an hour and a quarter
without coming to the point. Why did he
appoint Garden to a position of power
without responsibility in which the
fellow was closeted with importunate
persons primed with arguments against
war service? Was it because Garden was
or had been a Communist leader and
Communist leaders are models of
probity? And was it the Garden associa-
tion or influence that prompted Ward’s
own Russophile rubbish, “The U.S.S.R.
has made more progress in 25 years than
any capitalist country has made in 10
times that period”?
Soon after the coal strike began armed
guards were placed on Navy, Army and
Air Force depots and stores. Does this
mean that the Prime Minister at last
suspects that Communism is something
more than a political philosophy?
Dr. Lloyd Ross, a historian of some
parts, is the reputed author of the week-
end leaflets, dropped by plane, with
which the Chifley “Government,” hiding
in caves and hollow logs, implored strik-
ing N.S.W. miners to be good. The
leaflets would be assured of more appre-
ciative readers if the doctor tried his
hand at re-vamping history on Chifley
“principles,” The Horatius affair, for
instance:
With weeping and with laughter,
They still relate in Rome:
Horatius, sworn to hold the bridge,
Like Chifley, stayed at home.
And that bit about Brutus could be
brought up to date:
Hold, then, my hand and Sharkey, now
be still:
I potted thee with all too good a will.
(Shams to fall on his pen; retrieves it
and writes a full-page ad. for Acta Diurna.)
Then a local application might be given
to the last word heard by Wolfe on the
stricken field, “They run, I profess they
run”—although there would need to be
a change of pronouns.
Burst of frankness from the McGirr
Minister for Works, Cahill: “The Com-
munists were allowed to get control of
the coalfields because members of the
Labor party were willing to sit down and
do nothing about it.” Others have been
saying that for a long time, but persons
of the Cahill ilk always called them
“capitalist stooges” for saying it.
An Opposition member, complaining
of delays in sending out taxation assess-
ments, told the Prime Minister that one
of his constituents had not received an
assessment since 1945. Chifley com-
mented “He’s very lucky.” The bloke in
question won’t feel very lucky when four
years’ assessments descend on him at
once.
Lang has recalled in his “Century”
that Menzies, when P.M., “did go to the
coalfields and gave his side on the picture
to the miners, face to face, without any
loss of prestige,” and John Thomas
mordantly declares that “Chifley is after
all the records,” especially “the record
term of any P.M.” In a desperate
emergency, characterised by blackmail of
the nation and a form of civil war,
Chifley has chosen to address black-
mailers and victims, not “face to face,”
but in costly “capitalisf’-paper advertise-
ments. Among “records” a “record”
which no future P.M. will ever seek to
emulate.
“The job of the coalminer is more
hazardous and unhealthy than 90 p.c. of
jobs.” This sort of thing has been dinned
into our ears for years, and we’re getting
it double now from Communist papers
and miners’ supporters. It’s beside the
point, which is that nobody is compelled
to work in a coalmine, and for those who
do choose to! work there the people have
set up a Coal Industry Tribunal to hear
their claims. The miners’ leaders won’t
let the tribunal hear the claims, not be-
cause they’re working for the miners, but
because they’re following the Moscow
line.
High Commissioner Beasley, sup-
posedly possessor of first-hand informa-
tion, told reporters last Tuesday that he
had not suggested any more dollar-im-
port cuts to assist Britain. He said that
the British Government considered Aus-
tralia had faced the dollar problem with
realism. Next day Chifley announced a
further tightening-up on dollar imports
and foreshadowed a cut in petrol and
other items.
Beasley explained that Sir Stafford
Cripps had “a formula to overcome the
crisis”:
It might include some unorthodox
methods, but in the past many economic
crises had been overcome by unorthodox
methods, despite contrary predictions of
economists.
The former member for West Sydney
gave no details, but he could not have
been thinking of the “economic crisis”
of the 19305. Australia overcame that
one largely by adopting the recommenda-
tions of the Copland committee, which
became the basis of the Premiers’ Plan.
Beasley, then a Lang Labor man, was
one who opposed the plan and advo-
cated “unorthodox methods.”
Abram Landa, “Labor” member for
Bondi, according to a special N.S.W.
police report prompted by a question
from Turner in the State House, was a
director of Mt. Eba Gold Mines in 1948,
but resigned early in 1949. He holds
2000 shares, and Beale (Liberal, South
Coast) held 1000 shares. The police were
unable to establish any connection be-
tween John Woolcott-Forbes and Mt.
Eba, the shares in which soared to 16s.
each and then slumped to 3d., recovering
to 2s. Abie Landa, it may be recalled,
and Maxie Falstein also held large
parcels of shares in Rubtex Elastics, which
was widely discussed in Stock Exchange
circles a few months ago. Rubtex scrip
went to a high premium at one stage,
then slumped. Private Enterprise seems
to be full of shocks for Socialists.
Senator Cameron in reply to a query
whether the Government had settled the
strike; “All these things settle them l
selves automatically. You know the
mechanism of genus Homo ? You leave
him with a thing long enough and he
settles it himself.” The theory certainly
applies to genus Homp laboriensis.
After eight years in office it has just
about settled Australia. As for genus
Homo cmneroniensis —he was left alone
with a Postal Department surplus and he
settled that in no time.
An increase of £45,000,000 in the de-
fence vote has been approved. Let no
one run away with the idea that there is
to be any increase in the size of the
Army, Navy or Air Force in return for
the extra dough. All but £4,000,000 of
it represents “increased costs of the
original programme”—in other words,
the 40-hour week and similar luxuries.
In a sort of a kind of a way the In-
ternational Wheat Agreement was rati-
fied on the due date —July 1. India,
Greece and Lebanon signed up, which
made 16 importing signatories and is
supposed to guarantee more than the
necessary 70 p.c. of purchases under the
agreement. Three exporters and 21 im-
porters have an extension of time for
ratification. First meeting of the I.W.
Council will be held tomorrow, and will
presumably consider the ramshackle
arrangement and nail on a supporting
structure here and there.
Last year the Communist E. C. Eng-
lart was elected secretary of Brisbane
Watersiders by 31 votes over his
opponent, A. Brown, an A.L.P. man.
Subsequently there was a row on Bris-
bane waterfront when Englart’s crowd
forced members of the Storemen and
Packers working on the wharves to
either join the Watersiders or get out.
About 200 joined, most of them well
vetted by the Comrades. The other day
there was another election for secretary.
This time Comrade Englart got a
majority of 126 votes.
In his speech on the New Guinea tim-
ber-lease business Ward said he was
lucky to have got an “impartial Judge”
as Royal Commissioner. The implied
reflection upon the Bench in general is in
keeping with the East Sydney pet’s past
attacks upon the judiciary.
Despite L.C.P. and CP. differences in
the Victorian Parliament the two parties
seem to be getting somewhere in election
plans for the Federal poll. A joint team
is to be run for the Senate, and three-
cornered fights for seats in the Reps,
have been narrowed down to five elec-
torates, with a prospect of a further re-
duction. In Westralia, too, a joint
team will be run for the Senate, and
there will be a full exchange of prefer-
ences in Lower-House contests.
Notes from Melbourne on the latest
charges of ballot-faking in a union elec-
tion, the ballot being that for executive
offices in the Victorian branch of the
Australian Railways Union;
An A.L.P.-group candidate for the vice-
presidency lodged formal complaint that
Communist J. J. Brown, standing for re-
election as State secretary, “took possession
of one ballot-box (goods division), and thus
prevented members depositing their ballot-
papers.”
Another candidate complained that Brown
removed a ballot-box from Parcels Office at
Flinders-street, and also that Brown entered
the room where counting was in progress.
These charges notwithstanding, the count-
ing proceeded; no figures were an-
nounced, but all Reds were declared
elected; ballot committee’s decision on
charges was not promulgated. Brown
controls the ballot committee. This
seems a case wortjhy of investigation
under the Federal Government’s belated
legislation.
Socialism and the author. British
novelist Graham Greene signed a con-
tract with American theatrical producers
Rodgers and Hammerstein for a dramatic
version of his novel The Heart of the
Matter. He was to write the script in New
York in collaboration with the director,
and a Broadway season was promised
for late this year. Advance royalties paid
for a trip to America last year for con-
sultations, but further dollars were needed
to finance the writing trip, so he applied
to the nationalised Bank of England for
“the usual businessman’s allowance of
£lO a day” for living expenses in New
York, pointing out that the play would
be a dollar-earner for Britain. The
powers-that-be replied that they could not
“gamble on an unknown quantity to the
extent of £350,” which was the amount
asked for. Result: Greene has had to
cancel his contract; Broadway doesn’t
get the play and Britain doesn’t get the
dollars.
Referring to the attempts (thwarted,
he said) to introduce Communist dis-
ruption into Japanese politics, General
MacArthur, in his Independence Day
address in Tokyo, described Commun-
ism as “a movement of national and in-
ternational outlawry.” He went on:
That it should continue to advance its
treacherous purposes behind the shield of
those very freedoms which, to succeed, it
must destroy poses the question whether
such a movement should any longer be
accorded validity, sanction and protection
of the law.
That holds emphatically for this coun-
try, too. The “Labor” Government in
Canberra gave the Communist party in
this country “validity, sanction and pro-
tection of the law” when it removed the
ban the Menzies Government had placed
on it, and it seems “Labor” would
rather see the country suffer any damage
than confess error in its political judg-
ment.
Nothing could be more negative than
Socialist policy in crises. Faced with a
financial one in Britain, all Attlee and
Cripps can talk about is restrictions, re-
strictions, restrictions. Faced with a coal-
industrial crisis in Australia, all Chifley
and McGirr can talk about is ( a ) sitting
back till the strikers become bored with
the strike and {b) restrictions, restrictions,
restrictions. A good name for their
party would be “Restrictionist.”
Film-producers contemplating a screen
version of Bunyan’s Pilgrim’s Progress
would not have to go outside the ranks
of the A.L.P. to find a suitable player
for Mr. Facing-Both-Ways ; any one of a
score would be a natural for the role
and the rest could be used as stand-ins.
Almost every “Labor” member of the
Canberra and Macquarie-street talking-
shops has pledged support to arbitration
as the only means of settling the coal
strike, yet member after member re-
iterates that “Labor” will never give up
“the right to strike.” On Friday N. S.
Wales members for the coalfields districts
lent their names and photographs to a
McGirr advertisements supporting Gov-
ernment policy. Next day three of them
—Davies, Fowles and Kelly—attended
meeting at the Miners’ Hall, Wollongong,
at which a unanimous resolution was
passed urging immediate nationalisation
of the coal industry. “Immediate nation-
alisation of the coal industry” is one of
the objects of the Communist-inspired
strike.


AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMB'LES-INKS
“C.Q.”: A Melbourne artist the
opening of whose annual show of pic-
tures last year synchronised with the
transport strike has had no better luck
this year—even confirmed art-lovers
aren’t thinking much about paintings.
Up at the Public Library an investigation
into the failure of the heating system has
just been concluded. It was found that
four blowers which were supposed to
inject hot air into the building had been
put in back to front, and for 30 years
had been sucking the air out. Now that
the discrepancy has been adjusted there
is no hot air to blow in.
* * * ♦
“A.D.”: Ingenious improvisation:
During the coal strike and power failure
in N. S. Wales the Sydney machinery
firm of Goodall has been using a jacked-
up utility truck as a power unit. The
wheels turn a lathe, the lamp-sockets are
used to provide light to the small work-
shop, and the exhaust keeps a small forge
glowing.
j|e j]e a|t
“Percy Pawnticket”: An analogy to
the miners’ stubborn insistence on their
right to strike might be found in the re-
sistance to the King’s law in the old
feudal days when the barons felt that
the right to have a go amongst themselves
to settle their private quarrels was
approved by the Deity. My ancestor
Percy, Lord Pawnticket, when attainted
for disturbing the peace of the realm,
pleaded that he had been forced to
avenge the- theft of the cow of one of his
yeomen to maintain the respect of the
vassals of Mudby-on-Slosh who regarded
it as one Of their privileges to be called
upon to fight and die for their lord from
time to time; and the “verrie grate dis-
contentit” of the serfs of Baron Mudd,
who believed in taking his grievances to
the King, and was universally despised as
a milksop, was quoted. The stubborn
belief in the right to adjust individual
grievances by personal violence came
down right to our own times. Did not
Charles Kingsley (a reyerend at that)
splurge occasionally about the decadence
of days in which a gentleman was for-
bidden to carry a sword by his side which
might be whipped out to adjust a personal
quarrel? My own grandpop fought three
duels, and would have regarded himself
as only half a man if he hadn’t.
* * * *
“Mac Hoots”: I must apologise to the
large St. Bernard dog which stares at
Sydney traffic from an auctioneer’s
window in Bridge-street (B. 6/7/’49). I
said it was carved out of wood, but, on
pausing for another chat with it, I find it
is cast in plaster. Consequently, if any-
body is thinking of buying it for the
stud, they should be warned that it will
beget only plaster pups, not chips of the
old block.
* * * *
“Beau Forte”: Schoolday fights (B.
29/6/’49)? I often think of the one I
had with the new kid who offered me a
dozen cigarette-cards to fight him after
school. I accepted. It was 'a ding-dong
go, and after about 20 minutes of solid
slugging I lost on points—a black eye and
a bleeding nose. What hurt me most was
the thought that he picked on meybecause
I looked easy meat. But he dispelled that
doubt later when we became pals. “When
you start at a new school and you want
to gain a reputation,” he advised me,
“never take on a mug. A win against him
doesn’t count much, and if he beats you
you’re a goner. If you take on a good
’un and fluke a win the kids all say you’re
a champ; if he does thump you they say
‘What else could you expect?’ and you
still pass off as a pretty good fighter.” It
was a different story with another new-
comer to our school—a bloke from the
city. He talked of the ring and of gyms
and used boxing terms we country kids
had never heard. He often came the
bounce, too, but nobody wanted to bump
up against him. One day, to my horror,
when he and I were playing marbles he
did his block and peeled-off. I put up
my hands in defence ; he hit my fist with
his nose and then came to terms. “I’ll
give you this,” he said, pulling a bob out
of his pocket, “if you don’t tell anyone
about givin’ me a beltin’. If the other
kids know they’ll all be wantin’ to go
me.” That was the richest fight I have
ever won.
» # » *
“Pink Tape”: The Yanks may have
been lavish in the cable-sending; but
they were a headache to that department
of the P.O. which has to pay refunds on
undelivered cables. There was a terrible
vagueness about their addresses ; perhaps
their friends were nomadic. Anyway, in
some cases it didn’t seem to matter who
“Let's have a heart-to-heart talk, Effie .”
got the cables. Having recovered his
dough for a cable sent to an Edna who
was untraceable, one Yank expended it
in sending the same cable to a Grace,
who was alse unfindable. It next went to a
Gwen, and then to a Brenda, It must
have clicked that time, for that ended this
refund-collectors’ dossier. The cable con-
tained a marriage proposal: I wonder
if that clicked, too.
* * * *
“Gerard”: Wanting to add a Henry
Lawson stamp to my collection of first-
day envelopes, I bought one, placed it
on a self-addressed envelope and posted
it in a pillar-box at Killara (N.S.W.).
It arrived all right, bearing the date-stamp
17/6/’4B. My collection now contains a
Henry Lawson stamp dated 12 months
before the date of issue.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Spirit photographs (B.
29/6/’49)? About 50 years ago a Sydney
photographer took a picture of a
married couple which started a sensation.
The couple took the photo, to a Sydney
paper, declaring that the smudginess that
appeared between their two heads was the
face of their dead son. People rushed
the cameraman after that; he obliged
by producing similar blurry master-
pieces, and hundreds of homes in
Sydney soon had photographs in which
the spirits of their departed, definitely
identified by the owners, figured. En-
couraged by his success, he included in
his advertisements a suggestion of his
ability to produce spirit-likenesses. A
nark took him to court charging him with
“fraudulent misrepresentation,” and a
mass of expert evidence effectively burst
the bubble of his reputation. The camera-
man closed his studio and disappeared ;
but I have seen some of his “spirit
photos” preserved in old family
albums by people who still accept them
as genuine manifestations from the spirit
world
* ♦ * ♦
“B. A. Ker”: Who mentioned
“Chums” (B. 25/5/’49)? There was more
bright fiction and solid, educational fact
in one page of the grand old volume than
the modern kid could find in 25cwt. of
comics. I remember the first “Chums”
we didn’t get. Mum had set her heart on
fulfilling all our Christmas longings. Even
proportionately to the times Dad’s wages
wouldn’t have kept the present-day
family of five kids for two days ; yet,
somehow, Mum managed to have all the
orders ready—except Son’s “Chums.”
Christmas Eve found the budget shaved
down to the ha’pennies, but “Chums”
was still a little out of reach. Son, like the
good kid he was, mortgaged the sixpence
he would receive for his weekly (Friday-
night and Saturday-morning) billycart
delivery of groceries. Still the amount
was short —two shillings light. Right till
the last minute Mum seemed to have
hopes that a miracle would happen, but
five minutes before closing-time she had
to capitulate. That boyproof watch was
the last thing the shopman sold before
closing up. We were nearly home when
Son found us. He had run all the way
from the grocer’s shop and was puffed to
the verge of collapse. Tight in his sweaty
fist he held three shillings: Christmas
tips from his customers. But next
Christmas he (and we) got “Chums” —and
how we did enjoy it!
* * # ♦
“Karrimba”: A very old-established
Adelaide firm of general carriers has just
completed its transition from horse-drawn
trollies to motor-vehicles. Its last 30
horses have been sold and their drivers
have got their motor licences. A few of
the bigger hauliers in Adelaide still keep
up a stable, but it is only occasionally
that the “clop-clop” of hooves and jingle
of harness are heard on the roads. But
the two-horse trolley is still a sight even
for the younger generation who can
admire a brightly-painted vehicle, its
owner’s name gaily surrounded with
scroll-work and ornament, majestically
drawn by a well-groomed pair, flashly
harnessed with polished leather and
metalwork, the heavy medallions winking
in the sunlight.
* * * *
“Ray Whiting”: Our first sight of war
damage and realisation that this war
business was dinkum was at Tewfik,
where our Dutch transport anchored to
unload us near-by the bombed and
burnt-out remains of what had but yester-
day been a great British liner. Her im-
mense tortured hull lay black and deso-
late in the shallows, her plates buckled
and seared by fire. But her symmetry
remained, and plainly she’d been a superb
example of British shipbuilding; now, it
seemed only too clear, she was to rust
and rot on this torrid shore of Wog. It’s
good to know we were so wrong; that
the gallant Georgic is back on the job.
After bringing British migrants to Aus-
tralia she’s now rushing Tommy rein-
forcements to Hong Kong.
* * * *
“Sam”: Though there was much that
was discreditable in John Wilkes’s life (B.
22/6/’49), one thing stands greatly to his
credit —his conduct at the time of the
Gordon Riots. Most magistrates, and
others in positions of civil authority,
showed up poorly in their attitude to the
rioters —there was, in particular, a general
reluctance to assume the responsibility of
reading the Riot Act. Kenneth, London s
Lord Mayor, in the words of Hume, the
historian, “displayed a great dereliction
of duty, for which he was afterwards
prosecuted and convicted.” Wilkes, who
was an alderman of the city council, was
not numbered amongst the pusillanimous.
He distinguished himself by his activity
in suppressing the disorders.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: “Rusty Bugles” will con-
tinue its fanfares of colloquial language
at the King’s, Melbourne, until further
notice, although the Crown Law Depart-
ment, after a prolonged study of the opus
by some of its leading authorities on
aesthetics, considers the language in the
play offensive. Under the existing Police
Offences Act the co. cannot be success-
fully prosecuted, and it is doubtful if in-
dividuals could be. So Chief Secretary
Leggatt is contemplating amending the
Act to bring it in line with the Cine-
matograph Act. By the time that hap-
pens the language in the play will prob-
ably have gone through the same meta-
morphosis as Shaw’s use of the great
Australian adjective—which a Sydney
Judge called “common parlance.”
* * * *
“Clooter”: One of my favorite books
is The Virginian, Owen Wister’s classic of
the American West, and rereading it the
other night I came across the passage
where the Virginian and Scipio are dis-
cussing the manner in which Trampas
is exercising his evil influence on Shorty,
a pathetic character to whom the Vir-
ginian is prepared to extend help because
Shorty is “kind to hawses.” Scipio
doesn’t think Shorty worth bothering
about, points out that he has no gump-
tion, and remarks that “If a man hasn’t
any ideas of his own he oughta be kind
o’ careful where he borrows ’em.” What
could better sum up the foolishness of
those Australian unionists who fall for
Communism? Either incapable of having
ideas of their own, or too mentally lazy
to use their brains, they “borrow” their
notions from their Communist union
bosses, from Communist propaganda and
from those who, like themselves, have
“borrowed” ideas from the same source.
Everyone who thinks has, at some or
other, realised that his thinking has erred,
usually because he has too readily adopted
somebody else’s theories. There is some
hope for that person ; there is none for
the man who goes on “borrowing” ideas
without inspecting the status or motive of
the lender.
* ♦ * *
“Blackie”: “Jasby’s” middling-size son
(B. 22/6/’49) was a bit of an optimist if
he really thought he could buy three-
penn’orth of cooked scallops in Sydney.
In Tassie, the home of these delicacies,
we have to pay Is. 6d. a pint for raw
ones and an outrageous price for cooked
ones. A friend sat down in a Hobart
cafe at the beginning of the season and
ordered a feed of the tasty morsels. With
a thin slice of bread and a dab of butter
he received six fried scallops for half
a crown. He couldn’t stomach it (or
them), and promptly picked up his plate
and trotted it off to the Prices Branch.
“Me an’ Mine”: “Jasby” must
have got his scallops mixed. The
scallops of the tuck-shops are thin, near-
oval pieces of potato, dipped in thick
batter, fried in boding fat, retailed at
three a penny and eaten with great relish
by young Australia in all sorts of weather.
* * * *
“Barnacle Bill” and a ship in distress:
A fortnight ago, while crossing Sydney
Harbor, I saw the Italian steamer Orione,
caught with an empty hull in a howling
southerly gale, dragging her anchors to leeward
while two tugs fought to keep her afloat. It
was no go ; on to the rocks at Neutral Bay
she went. Thirty-two years ago, in the Straits
of Otranto, I saw another Italian steamer
Orione dragging her anchors on to a rocky
coast. She wasn’t in quite such good condition
as her successor, because the previous day an
Austrian submarine had blown her stern off.
But there was a lot of her left, and two Aus-
tralian destroyers were going flat-out to keep her
afloat. It was a weary business, with a deserted
ship and an un-co-operative Italian tug whose
crew kept wanting to go home to their wine
and spaghetti, but it had its lighter moments.
By some freak of fortune the whole gaggle of
ships went right through a minefield, and I
chose the moment when the sub. popped up
again to fall overboard. Climbing aboard again,
I found the ship’s company had almost doubled
itself, with a sudden mass migration of Italian
soldiers and sailors, urged on by their officers,
who led the way in the first lifeboat to leave
the damaged troopship. Meanwhile, a sort of
international game of tag went on around the
Orione. Four French destroyers with sixteen
funnels between them raced around in a praise-
worthy effort to find the sub., which must have
thought the entire Allied navies were after it.
Two of our destroyers took the Orione in tow,
but the sea got up and the tow-ropes broke;
and off she went into the mists, with our party
aboard. Hours later she drifted into shallow
water, and her anchors finally held her in the
middle of another minefield. A heated argu-
ment developed between our C.O. and the
skipper of the Italian tug. Our chaps had an
old-fashioned idea that the ship should be
towed into port; the Italian skipper, highly
conscious of the surrounding mines, hung oft
to think. He didn’t want to tow the trooper
in himself, nor did he , want anybody else to
come in on such a lucrative job. It all had a
happy ending, however. One of our chaps got
a medal, the ship was saved, and I got a pair
of size 10 Italian boots which I badly needed,
NOT UNDERSTOOD!
“The striking coalminers insist that their case is
not understood by the public.”
Not understood! The Commos said if Chiffo
Could see us make a football of the State
He’d give us what we wanted in a jiffo,
Expressin’ sorrow that we’d had to wait,
Not understood.
Not understood! We had the whole thing
ready,
And then ol’ Chiffo beat us to the kick,
Blacked-out your towns, and froze your jobs,
and said he
Hoped what he’d done to you would make
us sick —
Not understood.
Not understood! That’s not our way of
thinkin’ —
We meant to have you kickin’ up a fuss
While Chiffo acted as the Missing Lincoln
Between such apes as you and saints as Us-
Not-Understood.
Not-understood —that’s us, not like you others
Threatened and pimped on, frozen, out-of-
work,
Makin’ your sacrifice for minin’ brothers —
Perhaps that’s (well, we left you in the dark)
Not understood.
Not understood: yes, that was our intention,
To bash the law with you poor squealing
fools,
But then ol’ Chiffo snaffled our invention
And worked it with a set of “Labor” rules
Not understood.
Not understood we were; and now we’re
worried
To think there’s things we didn’t understand —
At any rate, it’s cost a lot, and hurried
Chaos and misery throughout the land:
That’s understood.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Col M.”: Feeling restless about one
o’clock in the morning, I decided that a
brisk walk was the cure, so I aroused my
bulldog Cecil from deep sleep and took
him for company. We’d just turned into
the suburb’s main street when out of the
night, with glowing eye, came a bull-
terrier. Cecil accepted the challenge, and
for those who don’t know let me state
that each of these two breeds is regarded
by its respective fanciers as the best
fighter on earth. It was a great match.
Nero would have viewed it as a grand
main event. At last I managed to drag
the terrier off by his collar, which left
me with a bomb in each hand, and not a
soul in sight to help me. Then a second
apparition came into view. It wore hair-
curlers, dressing-gown, and had a golf-
club —by day it might have been a
woman. It agreed to hold Cecil, and
suggested that I drag the bull-terrier
away and shut him in the phone-box. I
did so, and went home to bed to spend
the rest of the night wondering how the
bull-terrier would greet whoever was first
to open that phone-box in the morning.
♦ * * *
“Bo”; Stephen Grellet, whom For
the Quiet Hour credits with the quotation
beginning “I expect to pass through this
world but once” (B. 6/7/’49), was an
American Quaker of French birth who
died in 1855 at the age of 82 ; but so
obscure a writer was he that he doesn’t
get a line in the Britannica. Actually, no
literary research-worker has ever suc-
ceeded in pinning down the real author
of the lines. It has been variously attri-
buted to Marcus Aurelius, Emerson,
Addison, Carlyle, Sir Rowland Hill and
Miss A. B. Hageman; the germ of it is
even said to be in the writings of some
ancient Chinese philosopher. There
occurs, however, in William C. Gannetfs
“Blessed Be Drudgery” this passage:
“The old Quaker was right; I expect to
pass through life but once. If there is
any kindness, or any good thing I can do
to my fellow-beings, let me do it now. I
shall pass this way but once” —which
would seem to back up Grellet’s claim.
There was even an effort at one time to
attribute the thought to Edward
Courtenay, Earl of Devon, because at his
“Ask the driver where it goes , lady —he’s affiliated with the coalminers."
death in 1419 he had these lines left on
his tombstone:
What wee gave, wee have;
What wee spent, wee had;
What wee left wee lost.
Where the connection comes in is a
mystery.
* * * *
“Zake”: Jet pilots may go faster than
sound, but they are mere sluggards com-
pared with Sydney butchers, who can
beat even the speed of thought. The first
inkling the public had that slaughtering
charges for lambs would rise at Sydney’s
Government-run abattoirs came over the
7 p.m. news bulletin —and with it, of
course, a Ministerial “opinion” that this
extra charge would not be passed on to
the consumer. Ten hours before that
customers of our local chopper-wielder
had been socked 2d. per lb. extra for
lamb to cover the new impost—that
works out at around 300 p.c. profit for
Butch. Nice work. Now I know why,
when changing hands, the suburban
butcher’s-shop goodwill value has moved
into the aristo class that was once the
exclusive preserve of the pub and the
newsagency.
* * * *
“Uramao”: Franco’s attempt to put the
hooks into Uncle Sam for some of the
dahlers he’s handing out in Europe is
likely to fall on deaf ears if history is true
concerning Spanish bonds as an invest-
.ment. Macaulay relates in his letters that
his uncle was a great friend of the bankers
of his day, who explained the different
kinds of Spanish bonds then open for in-
vestment. They were active, deferred and
passive. Active Spanish bonds profess,
he said, to pay interest, but domot ; de-
ferred bonds profess to pay interest at
some future time, but will not; passive
bonds profess to pay interest neither now
nor at any future time.
* * * *
“Spasebo”: I read that Dr. A. Kuz-
netsov in an article in the Russian youth
magazine “Komsomskaya Pravda” claims
smoking to be a bourgeois habit peculiar
to capitalist countries, where the entire
pattern of life drives a man to the use
of narcotics, quite unnecessary in Russia,
whose youths “are the happiest in the
world and do not need tobacco.” In the
same breath the doctor complains of a
growing tendency among the self-same
youth to use nicotine “in spite of the fact
that they face the brightest of futures.”
These two propositions, as Socrates would
have said, don’t present a very har-
monious appearance. But perhaps the
doctor is merely babbling, and knows no
more of how the youth are feeling than
most professors of his kidney. Freud
may be said to have been a happy man
inasmuch as he was completely focused
on his subject, yet he was a chain-
smoker of cigars and smoked 20 large
ones per diem. Anyhow, Uncle Joe him-
self smokes a brier and Turkish cigarettes,
so the doctor stands a good chance of
being liquidated.
* * * *
“Findy”: I thought we had seen the
last of the war-time trafficking in beer-
glasses, but it’s still on. One pub at a
Sydney beach asks, and gets, a sixpenny
deposit on its glasses. You pay an extra
sprat for the first drink and carefully hug
the middy through subsequent refills.
When you’ve had all you want or when
the beer cuts out you turn your glass
upside-down. The barmaid puts sixpence
on top of it, you pocket the coin and the
glass goes back into stock. Since the
Bung started this system he has stopped
losing glasses. More than that, his stock
is growing rapidly. The reason? Around
the corner is a tonier pub which makes
no charge for glasses. The shrewdies
buy a short drink at the high-class joint,
swig it down and slip the glass into their
pocket. Five minutes later they shuffle
up to the bar of the other pub, place
the glass upside-down on the counter and
collect the sixpence. Off they go back
to the tony pub for another drink and
another glass. I don’t know how long
this is going to last, but the local beer-
scroungers reckon it’s the best break
they’ve had since counter-lunches went
out.
* * * ♦
“V. Cluse”: It was a fine week-end, and
Jephson, putting coal-strikes and atten-
dant worries from his mind, got busy in
the backyard. He mowed the lawn,
cleaned up the rubbish, trimmed the
garden-beds and so forth. On Sunday
morning he made off for a round of golf.
Returning, he went to the back and found
the Jephson offspring and sundry allies
playing round a cubby-house built of
old boards, palings, broken boxes and so
forth. Rage swept Jephson. “Whadda
you mean?” he roared. “Bringing all
that rubbish here and messing up the
lawn after my working on it yesterday!”
The allies fled, and the J. offspring re-
treated behind the garage, whence it
peered forth in < tearful trepidation.
“Where did that stuff come from?” yelled
the irate parent. Trembling voices in-
formed him that it had been gathered
from here and there. “Well, take it right
back, and”—Jephson fell silent, suddenly
"For a change We're not going to carry you down the ladder , Miss;
We've put the fire OUT.”
visited by a vision of his cokeless and
coalless fireplace and the coming night.
He eyed the cubby-house avidly and said
mildly, “All right. Play if you want to.”
Then he went and made sure the axe
would be where he wanted it.
* * * *
“Craiser”; The case of the London
woman who got £350 damages for tech-
nical assault when, after an internal
operation, she was confused with
another patient, put back on the
table and operated on again, recalls the
case of a one-time celebrated Melbourne
surgeon who took the tonsils out of the
wrong. Chinaman. Ah Wong arrived at
the hospital with Ah Loong, his uncle.
Ah Loong opened his mouth, made loud
gurgling noises and pointed down his
throat. The sawbones, noted for his
irritability, shouted to the nurses: “Up
on the table with him ” Half-an-hour
later he passed the waiting-room and
saw one of the two Celestials still
patiently waiting. “Ask him why he
doesn’t go home,” he said to the matron.
The matron came back a few minutes,
later. “He declares that he is the man
who wanted his tonsils out, doctor,” she
said. “His uncle was only showing you
what was the matter with him.”
* * * *
“Flathead”: In the unlit street outside
my door the man had struck a pothole,
bumped his head in falling from his bike,
and now lay unconscious under one of
my blankets, unconcerned about the
hubbub around him, and the fact that an
ambulance, doctor and a police-sergeant
were speeding to the scene. The police-
man arrived first and asked the driver of
a car which had pulled up if he would
move it so that the tail-light would warn
other vehicles to steer clear of the victim.
The driver looked sheepish. . “You’ll be
pinching me,” he said. “But, to tell you
the truth, my tail-light’s not working.”
Two other car-drivers were appealed to,
with the same result, whereupon the
policeman completed this road-safety
scenario by confessing that his motor-
cycle wouldn’t fit the bill either, as his
battery was a bit flat and his light was
“on the blink.”
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: It was at the scene of one
of those big, seemingly never-to-be-
finished public jobs in Sydney. A truck
arrived, carrying four men and a 4in. x
2in. plank about sft. long. One of the
four men jumped off, carefully surveyed
the entrance, then went and consulted
with the driver. The driver switched off
his engine, got down from the cabin, and
also surveyed the entrance. As far as I
could see the truck could almost have
entered sideways. The remaining trio
evinced deep interest in the debate be-
tween their companion and the driver.
The driver went back to the cabin and
started his motor. Another man was
called from the truck. He and the first
took station each side of the entrance,
then the driver slowly backed through
inch by inch, watching their signals. He
got the truck in with barely 3ft. to spare
on each side. Then, while he remained in
the cabin, all four of the others gathered
beside the truck and held another consul-
tation. You see, the four of them had
been sent with that truck to unload that
sft. plank, and their problem was how
each was going to get a bit of the plank
for himself. They solved it, and, 12
minutes after it arrived, the truck drove
off with driver and crew complete, pre-
sumably to get another plank. I remained
long enough to see a gangling, tow-headed
youth appear from somewhere, casually
gather the plank under one arm and walk
off among the girders, and things with it.
I doubt if tow-head will last long, Appar-
ently he has no idea of how to go about
things.
* * ♦ *
‘‘Simon Scrawler”: At one stage of
our unit’s war history our lieutenant
suddenly found himself acting as O.C.
Proud of his command, eager to make
the troops happy, he gave careful con-
sideration to our newest n.c.o.’s request,
but tactfully and regretfully refused it.
The new bloke looked blank for a
moment and then asked, “Well, sir, could
I be paraded to someone higher, like the
sar’-major?”
* * * «
“Say 99”; To the many spare-time
occupations of the messenger Mercury
(B. 15/6/’49) add the fact that he is also
linked in a way with the medical profes-
sion. I believe that it is rarer now, but
in the old days the waiting-rooms of many
Continental doctors contained a pair of
statuettes, one of Mercury and the other
of the goddess Venus. The idea was that
any physical manifestation in a patient
which was traceable to the worship of the
goddess would be given the attention of
the god, usually in his oxide form.
* * * *
“Wong Ngai-chan” on a strange festi-
val ;
As a humble student of comparative religion,
engaged in collecting material for the thesis
with which I hope to gain the degree of M.A.
of the University of Fu-Ning-hsien, Szechuen
(my native province), I count myself extremely
fortunate in having arrived in Melbourne at a
time when the devoted citizens, deprived of
gas, electric light, transport and other amenities
of civilised existence, are involuntarily celebrat-
ing a Ching-ming, or Festival of Cold Food or
No Food, which we observe annually and
voluntarily in my own despicable country.
Seeking for signs of organised efforts to over-
come the crisis, I was delighted to learn that
the Lord Mayor, the chief mandarin of the
city, was preparing an enormous supper at the
civic temple called the Town Hall, to which
2700 of the hungriest citizens had been invited.
For this relief work, I was told, caterers had
been busy for three days with improvised
heating equipment and vacuum containers in
preparing 10001 b. of turkey, 9501 b. of chicken,
5001 b. of hams, 15001 b. of vegetables, 200 dozen
sandwiches, thousands of bread rolls, 80 gallons
of ice-cream,, thousands of savories and 200
gallons of coffee, with appropriate liquid
refreshment to be served from three bars. To
make the repast more attractive, architects, park
curators and decorators had been engaged in
designing an extravagant stage backdrop behind
banks of flowers, which would provide surprise
decorations, including an unusual mural com-
bining Ancient Greece and Australia in an
Olympic Games motif. The occasion was
regarded as so important that I was informed
the Lieutenant-Governor would be in attend-
ance and his arrival would be heralded by a
fanfare of trumpets and a salute from 30 mem-
bers of a famous regiment of soldiers. In my
own ignoble country it is an article of religion
for private individuals to throw cash to starving
beggars or provide cold tea free at street
corners, but nothing on this scale has ever been
attempted, I would naturally have expected
that, immediately after this ceremony was com-
pleted, the starving multitude would be per-
mitted to fall upon the provender provided, but
the ways of the barbarians are as unexpected
as their weather. Despite their weakened state,
the recipients of the Lord Mayor’s bounty, the
cost of which, incidentally, I am told, comes
out of his own pocket, will be required to
gyrate in couples, closely clinched together and
composed of opposite sexes, for several hours
before they can satisfy their thirst or hunger.
This is, no doubt, a manifestation of the strong
strain of asceticism which runs through the
whole nation.
THE UGLY GIRL.
My teeth stick out, I have no chin,
Freckles, three deep, invade my skin,
My lanky locks will not lie snugly,
Yes, I’m ugly, ugly, ugly;
My eyes are piggy, small and brown,
My nose was put on upside-down,
I never bother how I dress,
No art can hide my ugliness;
So, while my sisters never fail
On sight of any roving male
To ply their little wiles, and bait
Their traps to catch the likely mate,
I need no smirking mask to hide
What goes on deep in my inside,
I lay no predatory plan—
I meet the boys as man to man.
The orphaned cat, with puppies reared,
Grows warmly to the dogs endeared,
With claws all sheathed she walks at ease
Among her natural enemies.
N.Z.
ARNDLD WALL.


ABORIGINALITIES
“C.A.L.”: The stranger drinking in the
Miner’s Arms appeared uneasy, and be-
tween gulps he would glance fearfully at
the walls and ceiling. All round him the
afternoon shift was in full swing, parties
rising, driving, cross-cutting, sloping,
bogging, trucking and timbering, the
tempo of the work increasing each time
the barmaid collected the “blunts” and.
set them down again sharpened. With
the roar of a jackhammer deafening him,
the stranger could stand it no longer.
Hurriedly finishing his drink he left the
bar, to return a little later with a clothes-
prop, with which he proceeded to prise
the pictures from the walls. “Hey, what
do you think you’re doing?” demanded
Bung. “Just barring down a few slabs,”
replied the stranger. “With all the boring
and blasting going on here, the walls o’
this stope are bound to be loose.”
* * * *
“Telarb”; Sharks in these Torres
Straits waters, according to the “boys,”
are invariably heralded by a pair of pilot-
fish which in their turn are preceded by
a lone white fish of the trevally species.
Skindivers seeing the white chap are im-
mediately alert, and if they then see the
pilots—yellow fish about 3ft. long with
black spots along their dorsals —it’s time
to get cracking. These men have dozens
of shark signs, which is only normal in the
job ; but one man at Kubin forgot one of
the most elementary precautions. He had
caught a cray, and instead of holding it up
high he carelessly held it under water while
he moved to his dinghy. The crustacean,
of course, got off quite a bit of Morse
with his tail, and just as the fisherman
went to throw his catch into the boat he
found it was gone. So were his hand and
half his arm. His mate just managed to
get him into the dinghy as the tiger
whipped back for another go. First-aid
for an amputation? Just a big lump of
gooey dough slapped on the stump.
* * * *
“Übet”: “Were those two carpenters
on the job all day?” Dad asked when
he returned home in the afternoon.
“Yes, Dad,” Mum told him. “They
were there till after five. Why?”
“Seems precious little work done
for three quid a day each,” scowled
the old bloke. “Aw, well, p’raps they
ain’t got inter their stride yet.” When
the next day showed little improvement
he decided to hang around. The
big carpenter picked up a piece of timber,
held one end in place, then put it down
to pull out the makings. Five minutes
later, with the fag drawing nicely, he
again grabbed the plank, and yelled to his
mate to take the other end. The little
bloke bent to it, then paused. “Wait till
I get a smoke,” he said, feeling for his
tin of fine-cut. Several minutes passed;
then he lifted the plank, and marked it
for cutting. “0.K.,” nodded the first,
throwing away his butt and again reach-
ing for a pocket. “Hold it a minute, and
I’ll saw it off.” By the time he had his
next gasper alight the other bloke was
again slapping his pockets. And that’s
the story behind the ad. that appeared
the following week in the local rag.
“Wanted: Boy for rolling smokes.
Urgent.”
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Four skeletons
found on a north-Westralian beach have
puzzled the experts. They won’t amaze
old-time pearlers. In days before World
War I the death of a kanaka was usually
followed by a quick funeral on the
nearest beach, more particularly if death
was due to some infectious disease which,
if reported, would lead to the quarantining
of the whole crew. Since digging a grave
without shovels involved considerable
labor, the usual practice was to lay the
corpse alongside a rock and scoop sand
over it. The next tide uncovered it, but
by that time the crew were well away.
The four skeletons just found were spaced
about a hundred yards apart. That should
be about the right distance for four
victims of an epidemic.
* * * *
“Trim”; Shaggy’s been Answer Man
to the Gilmours all day. He’s returning
home after signing them up for
Holt’s 2000-acre brigalow-scrub block.
Shaggy must have supplied the
answers to hundreds of questions
during the day and still they come
at him. “Do you think kikuyu would
block the erosion in that gully?” “Do
you think we’d be able to get enough
iron and timber to build a new laundry?”
“Do you think that Middle White-
Poland China cross which Holt has is as
good as the Berk-Tammy?” “Is lime-
bush as much of a pest as ti-tree?”
“Does that melon-holey country make
good cultivation if it’s levelled off?”
Shaggy doesn’t mind. He’s got the
signed contract in his pocket and he
knows all the answers. At least, he
thinks he does until, as they’re taking
“you might have knocked, Sir!”
the track round Sugarloaf, 12-year-old
asks “What causes melon-holes, Mr.
Shaggy?” It’s a question Shaggy has
been asked and one he himself has asked
many times. Shaggy never has been able
to get a satisfactory explanation. Anyone
help him out?
* * * ♦
“G.K.D.”; An “Answers to Corres-
pondents” reply told an inquirer that the
meaning of the suffix “bone” in the abo-
riginal language was unknown. I have
always understood that the abo. “bone”
corresponds to our “ery,” e.g., bopil,
meaning a feather, bopilbone: feathery.
It also indicates “covered with” — i.e., hair,
hairy. There is no doubt about the mean-
ing of this suffix “bone” in the sense in
which it was used by the Ngemba tribe,
who had their “walkabout” in that strip
of country from Brewarrina to Louth,
along the Darling, then out to Cobar and
back along the Bogan into Brewarrina,
The place-name Bugilbone, pronounced
Bucklebone, is a conception of Bopilbone.
* * * *
“Billy T,”: “Howie Wing” (B.
22/6/’49) reminds me. Our valley was
once a swamp, and though the peat, when
drained and trodden down, settled into
rich black soil, it used to regain its peaty
aroma after floods had soaked it again.
It was boggy then, too, but as soon as it
could carry the horses ploughing would
be resumed, and it was then that the gas
in the soil made its presence literally felt.
A faint odor, not unpleasant, arose from
the furrow, but after breathing it for
about half an hour a dull pain
started deep in your chest, and
there it stayed until about half
an hour after you’d knocked off.
Apart from the nagging discomfort —like
a bellyache “with a burred edge on it,”
as Lawson would say—there were no ill-
effects ; but it was gas all right. The same
phenomenon caused jack-o’-lanterns:
will-o’-the-wisps, marsh fires or what-
have-you. On a still night an eerie light
would suddenly appear above a sodden
paddock, float erratically for a few
moments like a ghost uncertain where
to go, drift for a chain or so, then
vanish. 1 understand such lights
are caused by the release from the
soil of a gas which ignites when brought
into contact with the air—right?—but
they also released a marvellous flood of
spine-tingling stories from old Mrs.
Regan, who would sit by our fire and
tell us tales of what happened when the
banshees were out over the bogs. She
always made sure of leaving in time to be
under her own roof ibefore midnight
struck —“they come out then” —with'
a warning to Mum to keep an eye on us
nippers lest we be snatched.
* * * *
“Lam”: Where has “Kelms” (B.
18/5/’49) seen blowflies underground?
In 14 years in Westralian goldmines at
depths varying from the “grass-roots”
(where one could hear the goats walking
around overhead) to 3300 ft. I have ob-
served no insect life except cockroaches.
These pests are prolific in the older
mines, and when night-shift was generally
worked were a continual source of an-
noyance. Regularly at dawn their
cacophonic crowing would commence,
and from then on no miner could get
further sleep for the rest of the shift.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: “It took me a long time
to wake up t’ one bloke I worked for,”
Mat said. “He had a place just
out o’ Maroona, up near the Grampians.
The money was good, but there didn’t
seem much t’ do, an’ the funny part was
he didn’t seem t’ care whether I toiled
or spent the day loafin’ round. Had me
puzzled. The first Saturdee I’m there he
gets the car out an’ asks me t’ go with
him t’ a sale over Lake Bolac way.
There’s a fair drop o’ beer at the sale, an’
the boss goes for it. Then he goes f’r
some bloke he had a down on, an’ the
bloke’s cousins or somebody go for
the boss, so I hop in an’ get him out of it.
When we get home, me drivin’ the car
an’ him drunk an’ talkin’ fight, his missus
goes me scone-hot for gettin’ him drunk.
I don’t say nothin’, an’ next day he
tells me not t’ worry about the missus.
Well, about a fortnight later he kids me
off to another sale, just out o’ Dunkeld,
an’ blime if he don’t get boozed an’ start
another fight, an’ I got t’ get in t’ it again.
When we get home, his missus goes me
again.. Well, by the time that happened
four or five times, I wake up that what
he’s payin’ me for is to go round with
him t’ the sales an’ get him out o’ trouble,
then take the knock from his missus. So
I snatched me time. I didn’t mind bein’
paid t’ get in a brawl now an’ then, but
I ain’t goin’ t’ be a choppin’-block for
any woman.”
* * * •
“Zake”:' The little sawmill had ceased
operations for the day, and Russ had just
unhitched his mare from the sapling,
swung into the saddle and moved a dozen
yards when a 70ft. dead messmate keeled
over and crashed with a roar like thunder
fair on to the sapling. Someone ran over
and took the mare, which was trembling
violently, by the bridle and started to
soothe it. Russ swung down from the
moke, looked casually at the fallen giant,
then back at his mount. “Can’t under-
stand it, shakin’ like hell over a little
thing like that,” he said critically. “Dif-
ferent if she was a filly, but she’s old
enough to know better —cripes, she’s over
thirty!”
* * * *
“Old-timer”: As near as I can re-
member there were nine bridges between
Barham and the Thule turn-off on the
Moulamein road, and the Sunday when
I was driving out to Lake Whymoul there
were parties numbering anything from
five to a dozen standing round fires at
each bridge. “What’s doin’?” I asked at
the seventh bridge. “Aw, it’s Koondrook
Cassidy,” they said disgustedly. “Ner-
vous coot left for Noorong yesterdee in
a sulky, takin’ out a female cook an’ a
case of whisky. Come tearin’ back last
night with the sulky an’ the cook, an’ both
reckoned they seen the Chinaman’s
ghost. T make the load lighter, Cass
heaved the case o’ whisky inter one o’
these creeks. We’re the shearin’ crowd
from Noorong an’ that’s our whisky,
an’ soon’s Cass sobers up he’s got t’ start
divin’ in every ruddy creek till he finds
it.” Later I learned that Cass had found
it in the third creek and then fought the
best man among them because they
wouldn’t let him in on the subsequent
festivities.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: Proof that
wedgetail eagles do play havoc with
lambs—once they learn the habit —
comes from the foothills of the Gram-
pians (Vic.), where graziers are at present
losing hundreds of lambs from the
ravages of these monarchs of the air—
one farmer there, K. Carter, of Rose-
brook, has lost more than 100 weaners
in the past three months. This time last
year, on reports that these brown fliers
caused heavy losses in the Brimpaen dis-
trict, members of various bird-loving
societies claimed the eagles did not attack
sheep ; but a Melbourne analyst, examin-
ing the wedgetails trapped in the vicinity,
found evidence of wool in all of them.
I maintain these birds are like sharks. Not
every shark is a man-eater, but once he
tastes human blood he is always poten-
tially so. It is the same with wedgetails
in open pasture country where their
natural foods have been depleted by
settlement.
* ♦ * *
“Bo”: Don and Joe were replacing a
strainer-post of the roadside fence when a
motorist pulled up and asked how far it
was to Boggabilla. Joe followed his in-
variable practice of letting his mate do
all the talking, and Don gave the correct
information. Shortly afterwards a cove
in a battered utility sought the same in-
formation, Don repeating the estimate of
2\ miles. Twice more during the next
hour satisfaction was afforded two more
seekers after the approximate distance,
and shortly afterwards a bloke on a
motor-bike put the same question.
“ ’Bout seven mile,” was Don’s answer.
As the cyclist sped away Joe looked quiz-
zically at his cobber. “What’d y’ tell him
that for?” he asked mildly. “Y’ know it’s
no more’n two an’ a half.” Don tipped
his hat over his eyes and scratched the
back of his neck. “I was just thinkin’ o’
that cracked record we got back at camp
—y’ know, the one y’ dropped the fryin’
pan on” “What the blazes has that
got to do with pitchin’ a poor coot a
tale?” Joe demanded. “Well, it’s like
this,” replied Don. “Y’ know how that
record goes when we put it on. Well, do
y’ want a man to finish up cracked like
that an’ keep sayin’ the same thing over
and over?”
* * * *
“Wippegong”: I’m looking through a
window into the top of one of those big
palms beloved of park-planners in N.S.W.
—Canary Island date-palms, aren’t they?
Scraping against the trunk are a few of
the gaunt frames that held the fruit of
two years ago, and erect amongst the
fronds is this year’s crop, dark-green,
hard and ranging in size from peas to
marbles; whilst between the two are
great branches bearing last season’s dates,
beginning to droop with weight and age
—and it’s here the party is being held.
Starlings dart about amongst the orange
masses, their speckled, iridescent plum-
age changing color with every movement,
but they’re so lively it’s hard to identify
their menu ; sparrows are there too, but
apparently just to squabble and see what
everybody else is doing. Working quietly
in the middle of a bunch, however, are
a couple of greenish-brown fellows, with
a faint yellow plume behind the ears —
fuscous honey-eaters; and, there being
no gums in blossom just now, they’re dig-
ding out the thin band of sweet flesh that
lies between the date-stone and the bright
outer skin. A plaintive little note locates
a few silver-eyes near by and, there being
no soft fruits ready yet, they’re content
with the same diet. They reckon it good,
and break off now and then to voice
appreciation, their own pleasant song
being well studded with excerpts from
the repertoire of peewees, cuckoos,
wrens, honey-eaters, and— sotto voce, for
fear of sneers —the maggies; a pretty
good mimic is the common siwy. Then
a tiny flash of red and deep, metallic-
blue flashes into the palm and lands with
a call that is surprisingly strong for the
size of the fowl, who gets straight to
work tugging his tucker from under the
orange-skins. The location of his scran
presents no difficulties whatever; he’ll
work erect, sideways or upside-down as
necessary and, the mistletoe-berries being
done, reckons this will do till the new
crop is ready. One of the jewels of the
bush this male mistletoe-bird, and as he
has plenty to say he’s easy to locate. He
spreads the arboreal parasite that now
seems to have no natural checks —but
that’s another story.
HORSEMEN’S COUNTRY.
On your two-by-four selections in sunny New
South Wales
They never reared no horsemen since “Banjo”
wrote his tales,
And on your dusty treeless plains you can
muster lousy sheep
With pensioned nags and flapping bags and the
honk of a stinking jeep.
Go where the northern rivers, fed by the
summer rains,
Gulfwards flow through the tangled scrub
across the grassy plains.
Where the cattle-pads come down from the
hills to the edge of the big lagoon
And the stockmen run the scrubbers down by
the light of an autumn moon.
Where the rays of dawn bring the crack of
whips and thunder of hooves at the yard,
And riders catch their grass-green colt —or a
son of old Regard—
And mounting there in the frosty air they
stick them till they’re done,
For it’s “Ride what you’re given or else stay
away v on many a Queensland run.
Oh, whisper it not on the Cooper or by old
Georgina’s side,
That the sun-brown lads from Alroy have never
learned to ride,
Or tell them out there at Kajabbi, where the
toughest riders are,
They could cut out the fats from the Elsey
in a blasted motor-car.
N.S.W.
C. R.


“E”: “Saw a little mob of wild ducks
on the far dam this mornin’. Mum,” an-
nounced Dad at breakfast. “We’re out o’
meat, so I better see if I can get a couple.”
Mum looked doubtful. “Well, there’s not
much on them to eat. Dad,” she re-
minded, “and they’re an awful lot of
trouble.” “Aw, don’t be silly!” he
scoffed. “Ducks are no trouble.” Shortly
afterwards he was sneaking on the far
dam. It was bad luck one old bird
spotted him, and with a whir the bunch
took off towards the bog in the bush pad-
dock, about a mile away. Dad followed,
He crawled through mud and slime till
the sparse cover gave out, then risked a
long shot. Again the ducks left
hurriedly: all but one, which trailed pain-
fully in the same direction, falling to the
ground in the next paddock, but taking
off lopsidedly a few seconds before Dad
arrived. For an hour he coursed it
through sticks and blackberries before
returning home empty-handed. “Well,
never mind,” Mum consoled placidly,
“There’s a rooster needs killing. You
can get him ready for dinner instead.”
“Aw, ain’t we got a tin o’ bully-beef or
somethin’?” scowled the old bloke.
“Cripes, Mum, I ain’t got time f be
pluckin’ an’ messin’ round with flamin’
chooks. Anyway, f’r all y’ get off ’em
I don’t reckon they’re worth the trouble!”
** J * *
“H.H.”: Anyone know why domestic
dogs won’t attack a fox at night?
I’ve known innumerable instances of
tripehounds that will run one by day,
but in dark hours will do nothing but
cringe—mostly they don’t even bark.
Only recently, on a Murray River station
one frosty night, a fox strolled about the
homestead precincts for an hour bark-
ing out his lungs, and all the home-guard
of kelpies and house-dogs did was bay
and retire to kennels. A fox, too, seems
to know a man’s not as dangerous with
firearms at night. Incidentally, my main
objection to these red intruders is they
eat their quarry alive and destroy more
bird-life than is generally thought.
* * * *
“Betcha”: Bill was only getting a few
bob a week, so when I heard he’d dropped
a fiver on the races I cautioned him
against making it a habit. Evidently it
did no good, for the following week-end
I entered the bar to find him sporting a
lopsided grin and a glass in each hand,
“Have a win, did you?” “Not exactly,”
he answered, “but it only got beat be
half-a-head. Shows y’ how easy it could
’a’been. Eight quid I lorst,” “Whew!”
I whistled. “How are you going to pay
Bung?” “Aw, he’ll strap it up,” Bill
said easily. “An’ he don’t mind waitin’.”
I left the new punter to it. A week later
I found him seated against the pepper-tree
opposite the pub, a picture of abject re-
morse. “Should ’a’ took your advice,” he
greeted me miserably. “Don’t pay a
bloke like me. Yair, I dropped fifty
quid t’day.” “Wha-at! Fifty /” “Yair.
Awful, ain’t it? Cripes, I could ’a’ done
with the cash, too,” he wailed, “only the
blasted thing run last. Good odds it was
—fifty t’ one. But me quid’s gone just the
same.”
* * * *
“Solitude”; The ground was wet and
marshy *5 I°™
we bedded down the mob and made camp,
“Can’t sleep in that slush,” remarked
Seventyfiver, eyeing the terrain. “I’ll
show f how t’ make a bunk on a couple
o’ logs.” Using a stake as a bar, he
levered two logs in close, leaving a couple
of inches gap between> j commented,
frankly. “Well, if y’re tired y’ don’t roll
about,” he defended loudly. “Cripes, any
bloke that can’t sleep on a log bunk
is too soft f’r these parts.” He spread
his oiler over, shoved his boots under
his head and by the time I’d found myself
a place, he was snoring. It seemed only
a few minutes before he was squirming
around and doing a heap of growling.
After about an hour of it he got up, went
tQ a t the nags, spent five minutes
cussing his wet feet and a boot that had
8 0t . itself lost in the dark, and again he
ret ired. Two minutes silence, to he
was out again, snorting like a cornered
Sleep!:ly, I left bun ♦
through the night was repeatedly wakened
by sudden explosions exhorting omnipo-
tent powers to blast something
realm of enduring heat. He was up quite
needless!ly early, and got the nre g g.
Sleep well. I inquired, rolling o .
went on smashing sticks for t e •:
“Yes, you re right; any bloke that cant
sleep on a. log bunk is too soli, l -
marked. He eyed my innocent-looking
mug, and found me not guilty. yair ’
he agreed dully. ‘ Y want t get gooa
solid logs though, Sol. That big nest
o’ bulldogs in mine last night woke me
up once or twice.” #
* * , n
. £ old Geor ge (B 25/5/ 49)
had hung his shags up ovemght and
an omon about the of a golf-
ball m each, his birds .
tasted fishy-unless he cooked the on ons
with them Any bud which is inclined
to taste fishy can be purified ? Y
means. It is unsold bushman s .
_ , „ t- . ,
“Old Bushman : Tasmanian devils
a^ e ®° ra £f these days t a • ® »
of Tea Tree (Tas.), caught one of the
black, 2ft.-long bear-like ma s p
week or so back in a rabbit-trap he did
not know what it was. Hie animal had
come miles through settled country o
reach lea Tree, and was mor t
usually vicious. Yet 30 years ago in a
back paddock called Black Johnnies o
F- Dowling s property, Tretusis, in t
Midlands, the furry carnivorous hoppers
used to kill lambs by the dozens, even
though there was constant trapping,
* _, * * , . ..
Cam : Old George mooched ino
bar, a worried scowl on his The
hikers that was here last week, he be-
gan; they was gom up Mt. Feather-
top, remember? Well, a they bin back
since?” Bung shook his head.
funny, then,” George went on. There
ain’t any other place they c d get. Have
t’ come back past ’ere. Yair; well, they
wus only takin’ tucker f r three days, an
five’s up already,” Bung reflected his
frown. “Cripes, so they are, he said,
“They must have got lost. Well, they
got t’ be found again.” George banged
the bar urgently. ‘ Get a search party,
will y’? Ain’t any snow fell f’r days, so
we might track ’em. Cripes, they c d
die up there. We better ’urry,” It was
oyer 24 hours later that the search party.
led untiringly by old George, found the
two sets of prints leading in different
directions, “They’ve separated,” an-
nounced one of the small party, “and this
one’s tiring badly. Better get after him
quick as we can.” “No, this is the one,’.’
announced George, measuring the foot-
prints. “Come on.” “But he can’t get
lost badly that way,” came the protest,
“This one that’s making further into the
rough country is about all in.” “Can’t
help that,” replied George, striding off
determinedly, “This here’s the big bloke,
I tell y’, and it was the big ’un that
borrered me pocket-knife.”
* * *
“Chuck”: After a glance at his watch.
Bob the mailman hastily concluded the
search for his strayed pony and, hitching
an ancient draught to the pole alongside
Tiny, he began his rounds. At his first
stop, Ma Rogers came hurrying forth.
“Hear the news, Bob?” she asked ex-
citedly. “There’s been, an accident on the
main road, and a couple of people hurt.”
“Never understand why you fellows collect EMPTY bottles !”
Several miles further on, Dad Thompson
pulled him up. “B’lieve there’s bin a ac-
cident over on the road, Bob,” he greeted,
“One bloke’s got a broken arm, they
tell me.” Half an hour later Mum Hodge
raced out with the same news, but when
Bob spotted Mrs. Bradley waiting for
him at the next gate he decided to get
there first, “Whatcha think, Mrs. Brad-
ley? Been a accident on the main road,”
“Yes?” managed the lady. “1.. , ” “One
o’ the blokes got an arm broke, too,”
interrupted Bob hastily. “Go on! Well,
I . . . ” “Awful, ain’t it?” waved the
mailman. “Well, s’long.” Three days
later. Bob met Paddy. “Y’ haven’t got
y’r pony yet, Bob?” remarked Paddy,
“Prob’ly up in the hills somewhere by
now. He’d been along the creek. Mother
Bradley said she went out t’ tell y’, but
y] wus so full o’ that accident she couldn’t
git a word in!”
„ * , , * .
Hanko ’; Wild Brady had been trying
Jo P/ck the local copper all day, but the
lor bided its time and walked wide of
him. Came evening, and Brady, full to
the neck, tripped over a spent match on
the pub verandah and lay there. There-
upon the copper unhinged a gate, im-
pressed the yardman as his assistant, and
together they carted the wild bloke to
the lock-up. How did I git in here?
asked Brady when the cop brought the
morning mug of tea. I put you in,
the policeman told him. Brady eyed him
with a new respect. “Well, git me money
orf the yardman,” he growled, “an’ I’ll
bail meselfout.” It was a case of larceny
as a bailee, but the copper didn’t follow
it up, and Brady did seven days in the
cooler.
*„* . * *
Reims : My explanation of Car-
lyle s mushrooms that grow m a circular
well put from the bull-oaks (B.
15/6/ 49) is that they develop in the
humus washed out by winter rams from
the fallen leaves. That humus accumu-
lates through the winter, matures during
the summer and, with the first of the
next seasons rams, becomes a suitable
nursery for fungus. I once left a big
bin of horse manure where it was washed
by the spray from a sprinkler. In the
accumulation at the base of the heap the
mushrooms appeared hundreds.
“Blime”; The first day I hand-fed
the sheep two big crossbreds wandered
over, sampled the maize and indulged
greedily. As a result, both were flat-Sut
from an overdose, but eventually re-
covered. A couple of days later they re-
joined the mob, one again guzzling too
freely. This ttae she didn't get over it.
The second ewe eyed the maize and
wandered off. During the past couple of
weeks, I have repeatedly driven her on to
the line, but though undoubtedly hungry,
and falling off in condition, the old woolly
has decided which is the lesser of two
evUs. She looks for rain, or stands de-
ploring the scenery, but nothing can per-
suade her to risk another pdn in file
works. Heartening to find a shrewdhead
among sheep, even 8 if she is overdoing it.
“Lower Tops’l”: Tasmania is not
the only settled area where native
game thrive (B. 8/6/’49)—it’s the SkVme
anywhere mountain scrubs are found,
’Roos and wallabies are so thick around
Omeo and the near Grampians districts
(Vic.) that the Graziers’ Association is
striving for an open season. Recently
I. Connelly, the Omeb delegate, told the
graziers’ council that kangas in mobs of
20 could be seen any time of the day fa
his district, and they forced up panel
after panel of netting to get to grass.
About Dunkeld the hoppers were so
foxy they ran dogs to a netting fence,
where they grabbed them one by one and
threw them over. In timbered country,
too, white cockatoos and galahs seem to
be on the increase in the southern State.
They are so bad near Corryong that it is
impossible to keep a haystack or reap a
maize crop.
“S.E.”: Sam and Barney lived the best
part of half a mile apart, and, as each
one’s property ran past the home of the
other, on opposite sides of the road,
messages between them were frequent.
“What we want’s a telephone between
our places,” decided Sam. “Wouldn’t
take much riggin’ up, and we c’d use the
top wire o’ the fence to connect ’er on.”
Barney was dubious, but Sam had seen
telephones fixed up before and was con-
fident he could make it work. He bought
parts, and started in. It took some time,
but eventually the job was finished. Re-
turning along the line just before dark
he spotted Barney’s cows in his crop and
decided to test his innovation. He rang
vigorously and listened. “Y’ there.
Barn?” A sound on the line convinced
him that he was. “Can’t hear y’, Barn.
Speak louder. Eh? Can’t hear. Eh?”
“What'cha say?” came a whisper. “I
said speak louder ,” Sam bellowed. “Y’r
cows are in y’r crop. Eh? Y’r cows.
In y’r crop! Eh? Me door? What for?
Awright, it’s open. Y’r cows are in y’r
crop. Can y’ hear that? In y’r crop.
Crop!” First thing next morning Sam
spotted Barney shifting his cows and went
across. “She works good-oh, Barn,” he
chuckled. “You must’ve heard me
awright. Good idea, ain’t she?” “Yair,
not bad,” Barney agreed. “Though,
mind y’, I wouldn’t ’a’ heard if I hadn’t
gorn outside, where the sound carries
better,”
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”; Less than a mile from
where I stand, but 27 years ago, another
pipe-laying project was being carried out.
I was billy-boy on that job, and lunch-
times were wonderful occasions for me.
Seated as close as I could get to old Fred,
I revelled in his colorful, imaginative and
humorously-delivered prognostications.
“The time will come” (the old navvy
always commenced the same way) “when
letters won’t go to England by boat —•*
aeroplanes will carry ’em acrorss.” When
the chiacking had died down Fred would
part his long, flowing mo. with the heels
of both palms, grin and continue: “You
won’t catch the Melbourne express to
go to Victoria, you’ll just hop in a aero-
plane like you would a bus and —whirp!
—you’re there in a few hours.” That
fantasy kept the gang chuckling inter-
mittently all the afternoon. Razors were
doomed, he once declared—amid good-
natured derision; “The time will come
when you’ll run a little gadget like a
lawn-mower over your whiskers.” tut
his greatest joke was: “I was born
twenty-five years too soon. The time’ll
come when blokes won’t have to swing a
pick and shovel —they’ll just start a
machine along the trench, thqn sit down
and watch it chuck the muck out.” For
days the gang kept up the joke. When it
was beginning to pall old Fred revived
it with; “Yairs, and another gadget will
come behind fillin’ the trench in.” And
now a trench-digging machine is effort-
lessly doing in a few hours the work
that took days of sweat and toil. The
driver is a man remarkably like old Fred
was then; a bit younger, perhaps, and
minus the handlebar mo. of course.
While he has his morning-tea the machine
keeps “chuckin’ the muck out.” At the
other end of the trench a miniature bull-
dozer fills in. I’ll bet that in the Val-
halla pub where old-time navvies take
their well-earned ease old Fred is push-
ing back his long mo. and grinning: “I
told you so. Now, the time will
come...
KOOREH CREEK.
I wonder does that creek, the Kooreh Creek,
Still stubbornly adventure down the Cara-
I wond°i°does’i't yet, attenuated, meek,
Slip slenderly past boulders with the same old
skill?
™ t u •„!,*
“akf ” p ’
Gleaming ’like a bubble on a sparkling wine,
Does it nibble shyly still, in Kooreh Creek,
At a boy’s bait trembling on a home-made
ine
Perhaps if I went, a young boy again,
I would see the rabbits’ tails dot-dash-dot;
1 W ° U when. ar them thumping as 1 heard them
I held my shanghai ready for a swift, sure
shot!
_ , , t . . ... . , .. . ..
WOn beak magpie ca m
And toss it up in song in a slim bright rill?
Oh, that hesitating creek, the Kooreh Creek,
Obstinately trickling down the Carapooee hill!
victoria.
LEO BREEN.


Australia’s Oldest
ftuy
Trustee Company
Specially constituted by Act of Parliament in 1878, The
Trustees, Executors and Agency Co. Ltd., is the oldest
Trustee Company in Australia.
• It is specially equipped to act in all trust and agency
capacities.
• Provide* ample security for performance of trusts, and
prompt, efficient and economical service as executor,
trustee, administrator or agency.
• Has under its care some of the most notable trusts in
Australia.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd.
BOARD OR DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); Sir Lennon
Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Column, CJB.E.; Sir Alan Newton,
M.S., Melb,, F.R.C.S., Eng.; G. D. Young; W. Sydney Jones.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
I BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY,
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £964,692.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Dr. H. J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., I'.R.A.C.P. (Chairman)
John Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8., E..8.E
C.M.G., D. 5.0.; David Wilson, M.A., L.L.8., K.C.
N.B.W. Manager; C. B. R. Cowdery.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Mark Foy’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends \
Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£> £, £> £■ £>
1940.. 60,003 16,374 6 p.c. = 32,422 11,207 201,323
Net addition tax reserve, £26,084 .. 227,407
1941.. 68,642 16,374 8 p.c. = 43,229 9,039 236,446
Net addition tax reserve, £75,177 .. 311,623
1942.. 70,107 16,374 8 p.c. = 43,229 10,504 322,127
Tax reserve included with creditors,
£151,262 170,865
1943.. 62,500 16,374 8 p.c. == 43,229 2,897 173,762
1944.. 74,228 16,374 10 „ „ 54,037 3,817 177,579
1945.. 75,931 16,374 10 „ „ 54,037 5,520 183,099
1946.. 87,809 16,374 12$ „ „ 67,546 3,889 186,988
Profit sale property, £1250.. .. 188,238
“Contingencies and depreciation re-
serve’’ appears, £50,000 .. .. 238,238
1947.-102,227 16,374 12$ p.c.= 67,546 18,307 256,545
1948.. 123.910.16,374 12$ „ „ 67,546 39,990 296,535
Profit sale assets, £2055 .. .. £98,590
1949.. 547.16,374 13J p.c.= 74,301 45,872 344,462
The resilience of earnings over the last
half-dozen years—they have more than
doubled during this period—reflects the
strength of the post-war boom and enter-
prise of the management. Goods came
forward in better volume and quality last
term and buyers grew more discriminat-
ing, and again expanding turnover more
than took care of advancing costs and a
further drop of about 1 p.c. in gross
margins. Among other things it all sug-
gests careful buying, attractive shopping
facilities and a tight hold upon
controllable outgoings. Return a year
or so ago of the co.’s second store —
it is over the road in Elizabeth-street
and had been requisitioned for defence
purposes—contributed to the improve-
ment. The co.’s woollen mills at Mascot
made record sales of cloth, but £l5OO less
profit (amount unstated), due mainly to
a bigger wages bill.
However, net earnings of the whole
business were easily the best since the
public became interested 40 years ago.
The £136,547 (up £12,637) of profit
covered the 6 p.c. pref. div. and 22.2 p.c.
on the £540,367 of ord. capital as against
19.9, 15.9, 13.2, 11, 10.7 and 8.5 p.c. back
to 1943. The figure was written after
allowing for taxation and setting aside
£38,386 (up £6576) for depreciation and
£14,000 for the staff fund. A special
bonus of II p.c., not to be taken as in-
dicating the future rate of distribution,
was sent out with the 121 p.c. div., making
13| p.c. for the year. The £45,872 that
was left lifted visible reserves to £344,462,
and the inner strength is known to be
substantial —plant, etc., alone, in at
£50,000, is insured for well over £300,000.
The co. is better shod, financially and
otherwise, to tread the road of competi-
tion than at any time in the last 20
years:—
1946. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital.. £813,269 £813,269 £813,269 £813,269
Liabilities* .. 479,709 449,348 434,765 455,684
Property .. 775,311 754,269 763,126 763,517
Plant, etc. .. 5,748 5,000 15,000 50;000
Stocks .. 462,358 632,640 670,146 676,237
Book debts .. 66,192 103,863 86,128 117,467
Cash, etc. . . 219,071 72,106 52,129 54,909
* Includes tax provision.
Bigger trading at higher prices and in-
creased credit sales show up in an increase
of £31,339 in debtors’ v balances. The
growth of only £6091 in stocks (conserva-
tively valued in the books) indicates the
board’s cautious attitude to impending
changes in the economic climate. The
liquid position further improved, the
surplus (£392,929) being £19,291 stronger.
Turnover has continued to .advance
since the close of accounts, but at a
slackened rate. That was, of course, until
the madness of the coalminers brought
trade and industry almost to a halt, creat-
ing unemployment, reducing spending-
power and slashing retail sales and
profits. The strike and its results apart—
it is too early yet to assess its full effects
—retail turnovers need to keep on ex-
panding if the continued lifts in wage
and other costs, and further official cuts
in gross margins (expected to average
over 3 p.c.), are not to bite into net earn-
ings. Further, in Australia the boom has
rested not on bigger output but upon in-
flated prices, on which we have built a
more-or-less inflexible costs structure.
Hence any drop in overseas prices will
hit our economy at its weakest point. It
all puts a high premium on efficiency and
low working costs. The ray of light in the
outlook is that there is no lack of work to
be done. To this extent current disloca-
tion of production and distribution
contains the seeds of correction at
a later date. But much of the loss suf-
fered meanwhile will be irrecoverable.
Changes on the board following the
death of H. H. Mason and resignation of
W. J. Cleary (chairman since Jan., 1943)
have no particular significance so far as
policy and conduct of the business are
concerned. H. M. Macken, who has been
managing-director for many years, is now
also chairman.
In a lethargic sharemarket, where
prices have recently dropped for a variety
of reasons, the co.’s pound ords. fetch
425. 9d. as against 51s. 3d. a year ago.
At 425. 9d. the return would be an attrac-
tive 5.8 p.c. on a 121 p.c, distribution,
or a satisfactory 4.7 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. The prefs. at 275. 6d. yield 4.3 p.c.
Net tangible cover (book-value) is
£4 4s. lOd. prefs. and 325. 9d. ords.
Ballarat Brewing Co., Ltd.
r- 4 Dividends To Re- Re-
May, Profit. Pref. Ord. , Total, serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1941. .34,502 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 32,500 2,002 242,063
1942. .31,145 6 „ 8J „ 29,375 1,770 248,833
1943.. 42.258 6 „ 7$ „ 26,250 16,008 259,841
1944.. 35.686 6 „ 7$ „ 26,250 9,436 269,277
1945.. 33.389 6 „ 7$ „ 26,250 7,139 276,416
Reserves disappear, £8196 .. .. 268,220
1946.. 38,269 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 32,600 j „ 76g gBg
To staff fund, £2OOO ..J 8,769 • m > 9B9
Restored to reserves, £196 .. .. 272,185
1947. .54,407 6 p.c. 12i p.c. 38,750 15,657 287,842
1948. .43,836 6 „ 10 „ 32,500 10,836 298,678
1949.. 44.368 6 „ 10 „ 32,500 11,868 310,546
Contrary to general experience in the
trade, output and sales of this Victorian
brewer stepped along in fine style last
term. A lift of 2d. a gallon (sd. was
asked for) in the selling price of bulk
beer and of 2s. a dozen on bottled stuff
gave earnings a further lift. So, despite
the buoyancy of costs, the board was able
to show a bit more profit.
Gross earnings from brewing, etc., went
up by £17,105:
1946. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Gross profit—
Brewing .. £105,502 £127,850 £133,653 £150,758
Rent, etc... 30,655 40,171 46,685 46,537
Total .. £136,057 £168,021 £180,388 £197,296
Exes 97,788 121,614 137,002 152,927
Profit.. .. £38,269 £46,407 £48,386 £44,868
Exes, took all but £1032 of the gain, and
the net result was enough to pay the prefs.
their 6 p.c. (£7500) and show 14.7 p.c.
on the £250,000 of ord. capital, compared
with 14.3, 18.7, 12.3 and 10 p.c. back to
1945. The div. was kept at 10 p.c., and
£10,500 of the £11,868 that remained
was sent to plant-renewal reserve, etc.,
making it £125,000 —a lot of money is to
be spent on further renovating the co.’s
90-odd hotels and on installation of new
plant, some of which has arrived since
the close of accounts.
The year’s net increase in book-value
of brewery, hotels, etc., was £6506:
1946. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital.. £375,000 £375,000 £375,000 £375,000
Mortgages ~ 94,000 84,000 50,000 50,000
Overdraft .. 28,741 11,961 10,378
Sundry creditors 32,413 20,690 21,607 20,456
Prepayments,
etc. .. 21,776 17,622 26,199 28,829
Tax reserve . . 32,500 87,500 39,000 42,000
Brewery, hotels,
etc. .. 580,876 579,536 679,575 686,081
Plant, etc. .. 50,136 54,600 56,789 57,152
Stock.. 29,749 33,630 87,586 38,873
Sundry debtors 125,882 149,928 137,407 154,994
Shares other cos. 346 846 346 347
Cash, etc. .. 58,939 55,856 28,241 17,262
Debtors’ balances increased by £17,589,
reflecting the bigger trading. Taking pre-
payments, etc, (some of which might be
genuine profit), into the reckoning, the
more-or-less liquid surplus (£59,813) was
£5OlO stronger.
It is mainly the relative levels of turn-
over and costs that will determine the
future measure of brewery profits. After
eight years of continuous expansion Aus-
tralian beer consumption per capita has
lately become static. Still, apart from the
immediate jolt following hold-up of pro-
duction and spread of unemployment
owing to the mischievous coal strike,
there is nothing to suggest an early and
precipitous drop in consumption. Much,
of course, will depend upon the level of
employment and wages, as well as prices
for pastoral and farm products—co.
operates largely in rural areas. Costs
promise to be the most stubborn, and
therefore troublesome, factor. What has
happened over the last decade in connec-
tion with cost of the co.’s most vital
materials, services, etc., is seen in the
following table, taking May, 1939, as a
base (=100);
. May
1939. 1948. 1949.
Malt ~ .. 100 136 148
Hops .. .. 100 150 175
Fuel .. .. 100 245 271
Bottles .. .. 100 117 128
Freight, etc. .. 100 142 142
Wages .. .. 100 145 162
Taxation .. .. 100 189 189
Excise .. .. 100 262 262
Without continued expansion of turnover
any further rise in costs will be reflected
in net earnings. The recent lift in selling
prices no more than offset the extra cost
of containers for bottled beer. Until the
cost-of-living index (and with it the basic
wage) stops rising it will be difficult for
brewers, and others, to hold net earnings
at present levels.
However, the trade may be less seri-
ously affected than some others, the co.’s
10 p.c. div. is still well covered, its re-
serves are strong, and so is its technical
position. The market therefore prices the
pound ords. at 555. 6d., giving a return of
3.6 p.c. on a 10 p.c. distribution. At
30s. 6d. the prefs. yield 3.9 p.c. Cover
in net tangibles is £5 9s. Bd. prefs, and
445. lOd. ords.
Robert Harper and Co., Ltd.
t
A B Nominal
Pref. Ord. Ord. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 7 p.c. 8 p.c. 6' p.c. serves, serves.*
1940.. 41,543 10,500 19,200 2400 9,353 411,243
1941.. 36,717 10,500 19,200 2400 4,617 415,860
1942.. 32,360 10,500 19,200 2400 260 416,120
1943.. 87,887 10,500 19,200 2400 6,737 421,857
9 p.c.
1944.. 34,942 10,500 21,600 2400 442 422,299
Added investment reserve, £398 .. 422,697
10 p.c.
1945.. 87,296 10,500 24,000 2400 396 423,093
From inner reserves, £64,346.. .. 487,439
1946.. 40,427 10,500 24,000 2400 3,527 490,966
8 p.c.
1947.. 82,317 10,500 19,200 2400 217 491,188
From tax reserve, £29,710 .. .. 520,893
Unexplained addition, £6842 .. .. 527,785
10 p.c.
1948.. 42,418 10,500 24,000 2400 5,518 533,253
From inner reserves, £15,925 .. .. 549,178
1949. . 49,730 10,500 24,000 2400 12,830 562,008
* Subject to goodwill. £BO.OOO.
The strong position which this co. (it is
in the difficult drygoods trade) enjoys
today is the outcome of the cautious
policy in both trading and finance long
followed by an able management.
Though the trade usually holds well in
difficult times, margins are narrow, com-
petition keen and selling prices largely
controlled, making net results sensitive to
fluctuations in turnover and costs. It was
increased turnover that put the pep into
the figures for the last couple of years,
enabling rising costs to be absorbed and
more profit shown, A ready home
market and revival of the Asiatic and
island export trade absorbed the increased
output of the co.’s factories, following
a better flow of raw materials.
The spring in last term’s trading profit
(£33*049) was £8784. The return from
investments (£16,681) was £1472 lighter,
owing to transfer of capital from invest-
ments to plant. The net result from all
sources was thus £7312 stronger at
£49,730, best since 1929. At the same
time £15,925 was taken from inner re-
serves and put in the window, making the
total so disclosed over the last two years
£52,477. The year’s profit was enough to
pay-the pref. and B-share divs. (together
£12,900) and then show 15.3 p.c. on the
£240,000 of ord. capital, compared with
12.3, 8.1, 11.4, 10.1 and 10 p.c. back to
1944. A 2 p.c. bonus was again sent
out with ffie 8 p.c. div., making 10 p.c.
for the year. With reserves heaped
£132,008 higher than paid capital, the two
combined need turn in only 3.7 p.c. to
cover last year’s rates of distribution.
This and the continued transfer of capital
from Government securities to plant, etc.,
the chief earning asset, gives the 10 p.c.
to the ords. as comfortable an appear-
ance as anything of the kind can have
in these uncertain times.
The new mill-building at Port Mel-
bourne is almost complete, and a lot of
plant is on the spot ready for installation.
The Brisbane factory has been converted
from steam to electric power, the one at
Sydney is in process of similar treatment,
and packing departments at all centres
are being* modernised to further quicken
and cheapen handling. The year’s net
outlay on freeholds and plant totalled
£58,445;
1945. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital.. £430,000 £430,000 £430,000 £430,000
Sundry creditors 91,696 41,358 90,903 99,387
Tax reserve.. 70,000 66,717 31,000 44,469
Freeholds .. 149,878 158,944 177,097 206,559
Plant, etc. .. 20,876 31,964 42,045 71,028
Stocks.. .. 136,210 138,604 225,738 218,461
Sundry debtors 72,902 61,144 77,280 91,756
Government securi-
ties, cash, etc. 576,219 573,857 498,596 483,660
Goodwill .. 80,000 80,000 80,000 80,000
Debtors’ balances increased by £14,476,
while £8484 was added to the trade debt
and Government securities (now £423,526)
were drawn upon for £14,925. Reduc-
tion in the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£650,021) was only £29,690.
The market notes the co.’s long and
satisfactory dividend record, and its
g resent strength, financial and otherwise,
o, despite inevitable repercussions from
the coal strike, it prices the pound ords.
at 56,5. or thereabouts. The return at 565.
is 3.6 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. At
335, 9d. the prefs. yield 4.1 p.c. Net
tangible cover is £6 Is. 7d. prefs. and
60s. Bd. ords.
Hoffman Brick (Melbourne)
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividend. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1940.. 14,479 7sp.c.= 14,439 40 53,753
1941.. 11,819 6i „ „ 12,038 53,540
Loss.
1942.. 628 Nil 52,912
1943.. 6,519 Nil 46,898
Profit.
1944.. 8,032 Zi p.c. = 4,813 3220 49,612
1945.. 8,205 8i „ „ 7,220 985 60,597
1946.. 12,014 5 „ „ 9,626 2388 62,985
1947.. 11,519 61 „ „ 12,033 52,471
1948.. 14,398 74 „ „ 14,439 62,430
Not a bad showing, all things con-
sidered. Australian output of bricks —
chief bottleneck in the building pro-
gramme—was a bit better for.' the 12
months to June 30, 1948, than for the
previous year, but was still 20 p.c. below
1938-39 leve\; and the figure for
1948-49 promises to be little, if any,
better than the one on whose heels it
treads. In addition to bricks the co.
turns out stoneware, sanitaryware and
other pottery, and its shareholdings in
brick and tile concerns at Auburn, Oak-
leigh and Blackburn give it a leg-in on
trade on the south side of the Yarra.
Last term only two kilns operated, and
a third is ready to be fired when condi-
tions permit. With a few more names
on the payroll and a new mechanical
elevator in the clay-pit the co. was able
to make its best showing since 1940.
After allowing for depreciation (£3366)
and taxation (£5355), profit was £2879
stronger at £14,398, or 7.4 p.c. on capital
as against 6, 6.2 and 4.2 p.c. for the
three preceding years. The div. was
lifted from 6} p.c. to 1\ p.c., making
average distribution over the last four
years 5.6 p.c.
The board anticipated further increase
in output during the current term, but
that was before the big coal hold-up,
which is likely to alter the position in
this and many other respects. Further
wage-lifts have added to the burden of
costs, no relief is expected in connection
with taxation, and selling prices are con-
trolled. The clay-pit at the old No. 1
works (inactive for some time) has been
sold to the Brunswick Council, and two
kilns and some plant and land have been
let at an unstated rental on long lease.
It is too early yet to say whether the
p.c. div. is likely to be repeated; much
depends upon how long the coal hold-up
lasts.
Finances are comfortable enough:
1945. 1946. 1947. 1948.
Paid capital.. £192,528 £192,528 £192,528 £192,528
Liabilities .. 4,341 12,850 18,189 22,255
Freeholds .. 73,827 73,306 78,443 72,770
Plant, etc. . 55,672 53,775 53,838 55,687
Shares other cos. 44,946 44,946 44,946 44,946
Stock.. .. 25,472 25,856 25,045 27,030
Book debts .. 9,278 13,199 14,665 21,402
Cash, etc. .. 46,483 57,899 58,913 65,496
When the books closed the outside debt


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Institution. Established 1862.
Head Offices GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS. SYDNEY,
DIRECTORS:
E. R. KNOX (Chairman), F. W. HIXSON, ORWELL PHILLIPS,
G. F. HUGHES, R. J. VICARS, J. W. DUNLOP.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager,
IT TAKES
MORE THAN
CAPITAL
It takes much more than
capital and equipment to make
a business prosper. It takes
imagination, a certain eager-
ness, and hard day-and-night
thinking, planning and striving.
Thousands of the men (and
women) who do this striving in
Australia are customers of this
Bank. The Bank, in over 300
Branches, in its London office,
and through agencies all over
the world, gives them a full
banking service.
THE
COMMERCIAL
BANKING
COMPANY
OF SYDNEY
LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt,
Public Notice.
APPLICATIONS are invited for the fol-
lowing l Staff positions by THE RAUB
AUSTRALIAN GOLD MINING COMPANY
LTD., Malaya;—
1. ENGINEER: An Experienced Engineer
is required to take control of the En-
gineering Section of the Company’s
undertaking. Experience in the instal-
lation, operation and maintenance of
modern mining and electrical equip-
ment is essential. Salary £l2OO
Sterling per annum and allowances.
2. ASSISTANT ENGINEER is also re-
quired. Mechanical experience is de-
sirable but experience in the installa-
tion and operation of modern mine
electrical equipment is essential.
Salary £6SO Sterling per annum plus
allowances.
In addition to the salaries specified the
successful applicants will be allowed free
quarters and a cost-of-llying allowance
subject to periodic revision but which is
at present £212-288 Sterling per annum.
Fares and reasonable travelling expenses
paid to the Mine. At end of contracted
period of service six months’ leave
granted on full pay with return fares.
Successful applicants must present a satis-
factory Health Certificate. Applications
with references and particulars of age
and marital state should be sent to the
Secretaries, CHAS A. CLARKE & SON
Box No. 277 D, G.P.0., Brisbane. ’
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
a,nd Prices of
THE AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
■4tUi>itwni«twiiimS3
Cylinder
TO
GUTHRIDGE
PTY., LIMITED)
10-12 Parramatta Boad.
Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
SUGAR EXPRESS
Over 200 locomotives are provided by the sugar millers
to transport' the farmers’ cane to the mill for manu-
facture of the raw sugar. The millers also provide
2,000 miles of light railway and 31,000 trucks to carry
the cane harvest. There are 35 sugar mills in the cane
districts of Queensland and Northern NJ3.W. the
C.S.R. Co. owns seven of them.
■ u ' “** m
m
TRANSPORT
Etc X
REFINING
LLERS
4
m
WHOLESALE
VANO RETAIL
GROWERS
iif
GROCERS
I **
m
mm
iWvii
The millers and the growers get just over 2id. of the 4id. you
pay for a pound of sugar. Transport expenses and the grocery
trade account for about id. each. All refinery costs amount to
about Id. The refiners (The C.S.R. Company and the Milla-
quin Sugar Company) get l/12th of a penny a pound to meet
costs of administration, taxation and final net earnings.
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD
K 23
r-
mr.
°C/CH
A WORLD OF
on the “KANGAROO” Service
to LONDON
There are no currency restrictions on the through
route to London —via the Colourful East. You can please
yourself whether you fly “ express ” without changes or
stop over a while to see the sights of fascinating
Singapore or tour and shop in that Mecca of art connoisseurs,
the Eternal City of Rome. No extra
fare for stop-over privileges. Fly on the
world’s finest long-distance aircraft.
luxurious, air-conditioned > \
4-engined Constellations—with '
Q.E.A.-JB.O.A.C.’s unsurpassed
standards of food and
personal service. _ vl
Return passage guaranteed.
Consult your travel agent, or
REA and FOAf
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS in parallel with
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION
was nearly 2\ times covered by
cash, etc., alone.
At 255. (275. in Jan. last) the
pound shares, covered by 255.
sd. in net tangibles, return
6 p.c. on a 1\ p.c. div. basis, or
4.8 p.c. on a 6 p.c. distribution.
After nearlv seven vears’
drought
2d e &
p.c.); last previous handout was
3d. a share in Sept., 1942. The
3.000. - c.y. - p.a. dredge,
operating on the Macquarie
River was shut down
for over four years to Feb.,
1946. Since then digging and
recoveries have been hampered
by a variety of factors-
cub yI Yield pl‘
April, Handled. Fine Oz. ceeds. Surplus.
1946*. 541,000 i.550£18,291 £2,543 '
1947., 2,323,000 6,149 66,312 t 5,502
1948., 3,013,000 10,603 113,896 22,863
1949.. 3,310,000 11,746 126,284 28,672
* Dredge started up S/2/-46. t Loss.
Last term’s bigger throughput
resulted in a slight reduction
of unit costs and better profit.
After allowing for depreciation
(£14,266) and office exes. (£297),
the net result was £14,266 (up
£6333), or 5.9 p.c. on the
£250,000 of capital. The yield
was e ff ua l to a n 84 p.c. recovery,
o^dfwi/e
Estate
y ears (5.5 d. a yard).
When the dredge gets into better
g™und on earnings should
respond, subject to what hap-
-1»» « CT7h=r°e
At end April mere was £52,300
» Government bonds and cash
to meet £7412 coming to credi-
tors. The 2s. shares, which
touched ss. 2d. in the market in
1948, recently sold at 2s. sd.
. *
* * * *
A start will be made
, A , rL WIU , presently
by the recently-formed Great
Fingall Exploration Co., Ltd., to
test-drill at depth the old Great
Fingall and near-by Golden
Crown reefs at Day Dawn, on
the Murchison field (W.A.). Site
for the first hole, which is to
go down some 3400 ft., has been
• selected by geologist H. J. C.
Conolly, who thinks there is a
good chance of the prospect dis-
closing a major ore-body below
2500 ft, in the Fingall and below
1500 ft. in the Golden Crown.
The Westralian Government has
advanced the co. £lO,OOO,
offered part-time services of
its senior geologist, J, C. Mc-
Math, the Bureau of Mineral
Resources has made some equip-
ment available, and Anglo-Wes-
tralian Mining Pty. has been
appointed manager for the co.
Anglo - Westralian, in which
American Smelting and Mining
Co., Mining Trust, Terra Nova
Properties and Mt. Isa are in-
terested, has also taken for cash
56,000 of the 136,000 issued ss.
shares. Australian Drillers Pty,
will do the drilling with equip-
ment from Canada. It expects
to make a start in August next
and, if everything goes accord-
ing to schedule, to reach the
target area about July, 1950.
Results from this and other
holes on the field (half a dozen
are to be put * down) will be
awaited with interest. Millions
of pounds’-worth of gold was
taken out of the Fingall between
1897 and 1917, and some mining
men believe it would still be
working if different mining
methods had been adopted,
♦ * * *
Investors will find nothing en-
couraging in the estimate •of
future world production and
consumption of tin put out by
the International Tin Study
Group last month;
Pro- Con-
duction. sumption.* Excess.
'OOO ’OOO ’OOO
Year. Tons. Tons. Tons.
1949 .. 170 138 32
19.50 . . 190 158 32
1951 .. 205 162 43
* Commercial.
Current overproduction, stimu-
lated by recent U.S. stockpiling,
is occurring during a period of
full employment. U.S. stockpile
is now reported equivalent to
two years’ usage at war-time
peak level. Still, British and
U.S. price for the metal has re-
mained steady at £5569 a ton
and 103 cents a pound respec-
tively over the last 12 months.
Smelter price to Malayan pro-
ducers is £5554.


BUILDING LINES
THAI turn- TuMfS FOR
'' :,iC(O UUALI. ' . iHt SAftlV. MAXIMUM SEcjßilY
\ho\\\fctS
“WATERLOO” STEEL
ROLLER SHUTTERS
oaa
nan
□I 1
BBS
one
□ac
nan
□□c
nan
□DC
□□□
WORMALD BROTHERS
“OVERHEAD DOOR”
IV U
ESAVIAN” DOOR AND
WINDOW FITTINGS
“WATERLOO” STEEL ROLLER SHUTTERS
For cart docks, garages or any openings. Space-saving,
thief-resistant, easy to operate, strong and durable.
ROLLING GRILLES
To close an opening without sacrificing passage of air
or obstructing vision.
“WATERLOO” TIN-CLAD DOORS
For fire cut-off purposes between buildings and built to
Fire Underwriters’ specifications.
“METALBILT” FIRE-RESISTING DOORS
Approved by authorities for use on stair enclosures and
lift-wells.
“BANGOR” SLIDING-DOOR TRACK
A type for every class of sliding door. Stocked by leading
hardware stores everywhere.
“ESAVIAN,” DOOR AND WINDOW FITTINGS
Concertina closing action. Strong and weatherproof.
WORMALD BROTHERS’ “OVERHEAD DOOR”
Latest type of sliding door. Suspended on springs, these
wooden doors slide up and back along the celling.
“BANGOR” SLIDING
DOOR TRACK
“WATERLOO” TIN
CLAD DOORS
"METALBILT” FIRE
RESISTING DOORS
ROLLING
GRILLES
WORMALD BROTHERS
p t y • LT D
Fire Protection Engineers since 1889
BTDNBT, NEWCASTLE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, HOBART
WELLINGTON, AUCKLAND, OHBISTOHDBOH, DUNEDIN
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACKSOff &
OSUIJUVAIV
nwi). A
TRADE
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jaxul” window face envelopes
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND j
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
Rupture
Sufferers —try the new Roussel Free.
Enables you to do hard work with
comfort and security. Definitely
holds, a condition absolutely necessary
for improvement.
Recommended by doctors and thou-
sands of satisfied users. Satisfaction
guaranteed, no matter where you live.
CO IT 17 Call or Ben< * stam P f° r
r rvUilli FREE details, self-measure-
ment form and lh days’ free trial
offer. No obligation.
The Roussel Appliance Co.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
C confidence and “Isms”
The world picture of trade
and finance > grows daily more
confusing to the man in the
street, who represents so many
vital aspects of our present-day
life. He is a producer, seller,
buyer, investor, sometimes an
importer, sometimes an exporter,
sometimes a debtor, sometimes
a creditor. . His reactions to
world and domestic events
have a very important bearing
upon economics. He interprets
economic signs and portents in
rather an emphatic way, tend-
ing to swing from optimism to
pessimism, from thoughts of
boom to thoughts of slump.
At present he is thinking
about slump. Things are going
wrong all over the place, in-
cluding his own country. There
are reports of overproduction
of some things in the United
States, a falling-off in spending-
power, falls in Stock Exchange
prices, spreading unemploy-
ment. And while the world is
hungry for most U.S. goods the
dollar dilemma restricts that
two-way overseas U.S. trade
which many people would like
to see developed to the full.
The United States has curbed
its purchases from the United
Kingdom, partly because talk of
a devalued pound sterling sug-
gests to U.S. importers that
U.K. goods will be obtainable
more cheaply before long and
partly because of the drop in
public spending in America.
This fall in British exports to
the U.S.A. has further accentu-
ated the dollar scarcity within
the sterling area and has im-
posed a greater strain on the
stability of sterling. This whole
set-up is one in which confidence
tends to be a casualty.
Within Australia industry,
hamstrung for some years by
Socialist experimentalism and
Communist sabotage, has been
brought almost to a halt by a
Communist-invoked coal strike
of Australia-wide scope. The
“reasons” for the strike have
been almost entirely demands
calculated to disrupt the Aus-
tralian economy—to flout the
law, to raise costs, to lower
coal and all other Australian
industrial output, to do no
Australian a scrap of good
but to lower the productive
standards of the country as a
further step in the Soviet’s cold
war against the democracies.
The Canberra Socialists have
prepared the ground for the
Communist wreckers by their
own deviations from demo-
cratic principles, their abandon-
ment of responsible govern-
ment, their socialistic experi-
mentalism and their reluctance
to uphold the law. Trade-
unionists have thus been easily-
led prey in the hands of
treacherous trade-union bosses.
Australia presents a violent
economic contrast with the
United States at present. Be-
cause of a fall in
demand, U.S. steel
output is being delib-
erately reduced. In
Australia hundreds of
industries are being
closed down because
of the lack of basic
steel and coal. The con-
suming public in this country
has an enormous unsatisfied
appetite for steel (and other
things); in the United States
steel can be bought freely by
anyone requiring it. Though
there is a long-term demand for
a large quantity of steel in the
U.S.A., just at present loss of
•confidence has caused a shrink-
age in the general demand.
Lots of Australians are now
fearing a depression in this
country. For several years we
have had a production depres-
sion, as has been emphasised
Here so often. This production
depression may now amalga-
mate itself with the general
overseas recession, to the dis-
comfiture of the Socialist Gov-
ernments as well as most of the
body of the people. We have a’
vast amount of work requiring
to be done, but for the time
being Socialism and Commun-
ism are making this impossible.
There exists at present no
strong leadership in Govern-
ments that will direct the people
of Australia back to the prin-
ciple of a fair day’s work for a
fair day’s pay, which represents
the solution to almost all our
"It's up a bob a chop, lady — there's another strike
at the abattoirs."
present difficulties. With our
industrial side strong we could
face the financial shocks that
might come from an overseas re-
cession with much more confi-
dence than we may safely do
at present. In the United States
production generally has shown
an immense increase over pre-
war figures. Even in war-
stricken Britain productivity is
on a considerably higher level
than it was in 1938 —even man-
hour output has increased. But
in the Commonwealth post-war
industrial expansion has been
deliberately strangled or
crippled, and we are tailing the
field among English-speaking
countries. We have been for-
tunate in that our primary pro-
ducts have brought us in a
voluminous external income —
so far. But though we have some
really large funds in London —
now over £392 million —the real
problem of this country will
continue to assail us until
Socialism and Communism are
thoroughly routed. That problem
is the inadequacy of output of
basic materials such as coal and
steel and the inadequacy of our
transport services.
“Buyer’s Market in America”
Under the above heading the
British Treasury’s “Bulletin for
Industry” (June issue) com-
ments :
The April decline in British exports
to the U.S.A. was general, all the
main groups being affected. The
biggest falls were in non-ferrous
metals (down by three-quarters on
the rate for the first quarter), agri-
cultural tractors (down by over two-
thirds), motor-cars (down by three-
fifths), chemicals (one-half), whisky,
cotton goods and clothing (each down
by one-third). These figures reflect
orders placed many months ago. It
is, however, clear that U.K. exporters
are encountering growing difficulties
in the UIS. market. A buyer’s market
now exists for most types of con-
sumer goods (including motor-cars),
and U.S. manufacturers arc paying
much more attention to price reduc-
tions and intensive selling devices.
It is too early to foresee the depth
and'duration of the so far relatively
mild business recession in the U.S.A.
which set in at the end of 1948. U.S.
prices reached .a post-war peak in the
third quarter of 1948 and have since
been declining. Wholesale prices fell
by 7 per cent, between August, 1948,
and April, 1949,. Wholesale prices
of farm products fell by 14 per cent,
between July, 1948, and February,
1949, recovering slightly in March and
April. Total output of goods and
services in the U.S.A. (adjusted for
seasonal changes) was about 31 per
cent, lower in the first quarter of
1949 than in the fourth quarter of
1948.
Chance for Australia
In the London showdown
over dollars N.Z. reckons it will
have to slash its lopsided dollar
trade still further, and Maori-
landers are saying goodbye to
many U.S. goods now fast
disappearing from their market.
Last year purchases from Uncle
Sam and Canada were chopped
to little more than half ’47
levels, and Maorilanders felt
austerity had arrived, but that
was plenty compared with what’s
ahead. Here’s the trend:
N.Z. Exports N.Z. Imports
to U.S. from U.S.
(£000) (£000)
1938 .. .. 1,422 6,856
1939 .. .. 2,847 5,613
1940 .. .. 2,826 6,094
1941 .. .. 5,191 9,135
1942 .. .. 5,990 14,971
1943 .. .. 6,385 34,889
1944 .. .. 5,063 27,851
1945 .. .. 7,949 13,072
1946 .. .. 9,716 11,793
1947 .. .. 8,174 23,329
1948 .. .. 7,273 13,822
N.Z. Exports N.Z. Imports
to Canada, from Canada.
’1938 .. .. 1,127 4,855
1939 .... 964 4,377
1940 .. .. 1,709 2,887
1941 .. .. 2,822 3,065
1942 .. .. 3,617 2,351
1943 .. .. 4,535 11,455
1944 .. .. 1,940 5,105
1945 .. .. 2,231 5,086
1946 .. .. 2,803 4,656
1947 .. .. 3,060 11,609
1948 .. ... 2,991 6,898
Shrinking dollar imports will
hit M.L. more severely than
Australia, because many Com-
monwealth industries, including
motor - manufacturing, well -
rooted and pouring out a grow-
ing range of things Australians
need are either in their nursery
or teen-age years in N.Z. or non-
existent. N.Z. will want to buy
more from Australia and from
John Bull, and the door should
be open for Australian firms to
push trans-Tasman trade, aided
by the stimulus M.L.’s “new-
look” pound gives to N.Z. im-
ports. The catch, of course, is
M. import-control, which is
a continual thorn in the side for
N. importers and for manu-
facturers in the Commonwealth
and elsewhere who enter into
dealings with them.
Still, what is Uncle Sam’s and
Canada’s loss should be, at least
partly, Australia’s gain. One of
the sore points with M.L. is
that trans-Tasman business has
been as lopsided as trans-
pacific, but growing N.Z. timber
and woodpulp shipments to
Australia should help.
The Commonwealth Govern-
ment holds 4,695,366 shares
of a nominal value of
£5,301,546 2s. 6d. in limited-
liability companies. This infor-
mation was given to L. W.
Hamilton (C.P., W.A.) by
Prime Minister Chifley in the
Representatives, Details of the
shareholdings are:
Nominal
Number of value of
Company. Shares held. Shares^ held.
Comm on-
wealth En-
gine e ri n g
Co. (£l).. 163,200 163,200
Qantas Em-
pire Air-
ways (£1) 3,423,000 3,423,000
Common-
wealth Oil
Refin cries
(£l).. .. 425,001 425,001
British Com-
monweal t h
Pacific
Airlines
(£1000) .. 1,000 1,000,000
Amalgamated
Wi r C l l css
(Bs. 6d.).. 683,165 290,345/2/6


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES.
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAONEYChairman; F. W, Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman j Alfred S. White.
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
’Phone: B.TV. 8361. 139 Pitt Street, Sydney
Branches in All States.
The greatest
safety measure
for engines.. f
Save your engine’s life. Lubricate it with Shell
Motor Oil. Shell brings you every post-war improve-
ment in lubrication quality. It protects every
moving part of your engine—improves its per-
formance—prolongs its life.
There is a correct Shell Oil or Grease for every part
of every make and model of car. Ask for Shell, the
greatest safety measure, and see that you get it.
For lubrication safety, say
SHELL MOTOR OIL
The Shell Company of Australia Limited
(Incorporated in Great Britain)
AL49JH
WHERE
CiealatwA
MOVE MERCHANDISE MOVES
wm.
I ' It
WWMKm-imm
m
.
iipi?
:
S’".!
.- e
M
111
•?.;:
;u
OF
° N « ESC»I‘ t< ’
m~~ ■ %v \«
Juelie p«st-^ st jiif
M mu»v« Nt i
OTIS CAcalatwA
★
New Installations
of Post-war Design
OTIS ESCALATORS
ADELAIDE: Myer Emporium
(S.A.) Ltd 4
BRISBANE: McWhirters Ltd 6
MELBOURNE: Myer Emporium Ltd. ... 12
„ Manton & Sons Ltd 4
SYDNEY; Anthony Hordern &
Sons Ltd 10
„ David Jones Ltd 6
„ Mark Foy’s Ltd 6
PERTH: Boons Ltd 6
PUT MOTION INTO SALES PROMOTION
This Otis escalator installation at Myer Emporium
Ltd., Melbourne, invites customers to visit depart-
ments on upper floors—to see more and to buy more.
Properly planned escalators induce shoppers to visit
all departments ... promote a high density ratio of
customers to merchandising area . . . make for more
store traffic, more sales—and more profits.
Your local Otis office will be glad to give you the facts
and survey conditions in your store.
n
it
w
ELEVATOR COMPANY
(Incorporated in Victoria) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE
BRISBANE » PERTH • HOBART • NEWCASTLE
ASSOCIATE COMPANIES: UNITED KINGDOM • UNITED STATES • SOUTH AFRICA • FRANCE
LONDON AIRMAIL
From Herbert Holman
During these bright sunny
weeks, with people holidaying
abroad and oversea visitors, in-
cluding many Americans, com-
ing to Britain in large numbers,
it is hardly surprising that a
wild crop of rumors about the
officious behavior of Customs
officials should be current.
Personal experiences do nofc.
conjjrm any of the allegations.
Passing through a famous Eng-
lish port that has, perhaps, the
keenest reputation for strin-
gency, proved to be no greater
an inconvenience than changing
platforms at a railway junction.
On both outward and inward
journeys not one of our suit-
cases was opened. The officials
were quiet - mannered and
courteous. When, in a few in-
stances, passengers were asked
to reveal, the contents of their
packages it seemed to be only
for the purpose of assessing the
duty on isolated purchases.
Three’s No Crowd
Considering all that’s obvious
and self-evident in the report of
the royal commission on
population, the intensive re-
search that has been made
during the five years of its
preparation doesn’t seem to
have produced any startling
facts. Certainly, no recent pub-
lication has evoked so much
general interest, discussion and
controversy. The purport,
rather than the fact-finding,
may account for this.
The first considered reaction
is more satisfactory than was
expected, for the nation’s popu-
lation isn’t threatened with a
rapid decline. While the aver-
age size of the family in Vic-
torian days was from to 6,
it is now 2.2, which rate has
been maintained for 20 years.
The number of births rose
quickly during and after the
war, and is now beginning to
fall, although not appreciably.
It is estimated that a 6 p.c. in-
crease in the average birthrate
will be enough to maintain the
population of Great Britain at
the 1947 figure of about
48,000,000. So that a family
of three on the average will
mean a steady increase.
The commission recommends
the extension of practical aids,
such as home - help services,
better laundries, washing-
machines (with priority for
large families), sitters - in,
nurseries, rest - homes for
mothers and treatment for in-
fecundity. Concern is expressed
over the disproportionate in-
crease in births ‘among the
physically and mentally inferior,
and the report suggests the need
for some effort to improve the
strain of the nation’s human
stock by encouraging the more
responsible classes to have larger
families. Various financial in-
ducements, including increased
income-tax reliefs and larger
and wider family allowances, are
suggested. These measures have
caused a minor controversy, for
it is difficult to see how the
middle-classes, already groaning
under Socialist taxation, can
hope for such a well-intentioned
subsidy.
The commission not only
acknowledges the practice of
contraception but advocates it,
even to the extent of free advice
under the National Health Ser-
vice. Controversy' over this
issue is by no means minor.
A considerable body of
opinion holds that a figure of
nearly 50,000,000 is too large
for this island, with its depend-
ence on imports, and submits
that, if the State is to regulate
its population, it should plan
for a smaller aggregate. To
some extent this is allowed for
by the report, which stresses the
need to supply the Dominions
and colonies with a flow of good
immigrant stock.
From general comment and
the correspondence columns of
the daily Press it would seem
that British people, in their
10-year period of trial and hard-
ship, have the more come to
value the exaltation of family
life, which, it is said, is the
true remedy. The chief de-
terrent, they affirm with pointed
and sometimes pitiful emphasis,
is the lack of housing.
Stuff o’ the Conscience
Whatever else may be said
of many of the modern poli-
ticians who were swept into
Westminster on the flood-tide of
the general election of 1945,
they cannot be denied a cer-
tain professional slickness in the
making of speeches. The statis-
tician who makes figures lie and
the high-pressure salesman who
proves black to be white are
diffident amateurs by the side
of the doctrinaire once he has
mastered his technique. To
attend political meetings and to
sit, amazed indeed, while the
“faithful” lap up distorted facts,
soft words and quick-acting
emotional appeals is hardly an
inspiring experience. One has
been forced to wonder whether
there was anything left in poli-
tics other than the opportunism
of the cheapjack salesman, the
glib persuasiveness of the confi-
dence-trickster and the flash
assurance of the Smart Aleck.
%
There is something left. The
long and treasurable history of
British Parliamentary life is
rich in stories of men who have
put duty before false pride,
rightmindedness before politi-
cal advancement and conscience
before all. On a recent warm
summer afternoon there was
such an incident in the Upper
Chamber when the Steel Bill
came before the House. Lord
Milverton, a Labor peer, rose
to make a personal statement
in which he expressed not only
his opposition to the bill but
his decision to resign from the
party because of it. The bill,
he said, “for lovers of freedom
marked the parting of the
ways.”
In a speech as full of wise
saws as a Shakspearian solilo-
quy, he spoke the thoughts of
tens of thousands of electors
who, like himself, “had certain
aims and ideals” and thought
the Labor party “could deliver
the goods.” Instead, they had,
“naked and unashamed, adopted
the principle that they should
take who had the power.” He
thought he was “participating
in a crusade and found himself
a camp-follower in a rake’s pro-
gress.”
With pointed reference to
Mr. Aneurin Sevan’s quasi-
religious oratory at Blackpool,
when he bewailed the fact that
the moral stature of the people
was not equal to the carrying-
out of the measures of the Gov-
ernment, Lord Milverton asked
if the moral stature of the
Government had proved worthy
of the principles they pro-
claimed. In other words:
“Purge thyself first.” Of the
Minister of Health, in his new
role as moral leader of the
Labor party, he “could not re-
gard the intemperate and pro-
vocative language of the poli-
tician or the emotional appeal
of the synthetic evangelist as a
suitable substitute for the clear
thinking and the calm thought
which the national interest de-
manded.”
Argument of Tyrants
Lord Milverton’s denuncia-
tion should have wide reper-
cussions, because his sincerity
and integrity are beyond ques-
tion, and also because of the
focus on Mr. Bevan, who con-
tinues to rise in individual and
rather fearful strength within
the Labor party. His topping
the poll in the card vote at the
Blackpool conference confirms
the view that, in the eyes of the
faithful, he is the man for the
job—of pressing on and on with
steamroller Socialism.
Lord Milverton said that he
was born free and had spent
the bulk of his life in teaching
what freedom meant. He was
now loath to be the reverse aftd
sell slavery. The implication,
which is well enough under-
stood, is that Socialism, as prac-
tised by its moral leader, is a
step towards totalitarianism.
The Minister of Health, with
the “court” circle that surrounds
him nightly, with his fanaticism,
his bitterness and vindictiveness
in debate, his uncompromising
self-will, his absolutism and his
liking for power, can scarcely
be described as the embodiment
of democracy.
His remedy for such a “de-
fection” as Lord Milverton’s is
a stricter check-up by the
Socialist party before admitting
new members. He has’peremp-
torily dismissed the incident
as emanating from “some ob-
scure person of whom he had
never heard.” This was before
a Socialist audience. One
thinks, involuntarily, of other
audiences larger than this one ;
of another, mightier, dictator;
the overtures have the same
dreary, common harmony. That
dictator, and all others, have
feared the radiating voice of
conscience so much that they
have taken great pains to en-
sure that the voice should be
made obscure.
But that, we feel quite confi-
dently, won’t happen here.


Write to Frauds for this "Kingsley”
Ivory Plastic
Savoury Service
★ Six
curved dishes
★ ° ne
round dish
Savoury or
cocktail tray
-fa Unbreakable,
washable, odourless
V/7
TO
\
11
Let’s give a party and we’ll simplify supper by serving
with a "Kingsley” savoury tray from Prouds. Seven
ivory plastic dishes hold your savouries on a matching
tray. Remove the dishes and you have an ideal tray
for serving cocktails. It’s unbreakable, odourless and
you can wash it in hot water. 14/11,
Irouds
fytu
Write now to
Mail Order Manager,
Frauds Limited, Box 1302, G.P.0., Sydney.
SAVINGS mode on running costs
will pny for your new BULLDOG
TRACTOR!
Thousands of Australian
farmers are saving as much as
£l5O %
with LOW COST CRUDE OIL
BULLDOG Tractor operation
Figures compiled under actual working
conditions by farmers operating Lanz Trac-
tors all over Australia have proved the truly
amazing running economy of the simple,
single cylinder, slow speed Bulldog engine.
When compared with the operating costs of
petrol, kerosene and diesel tractor engines,
these figures based on Lanz low cost, crude
oil operation have disclosed savings of up
to £B5 per year on fuel costs alone. Further
analysis has shown that maintenance and
replacements were reduced to one-third,
saving at least £zo per year ; and depre-
ciation was cut in half making an
additional yearly saving of £5O. Just
think what that means to the farmer
who switches to a K.L. Bulldog or
Lanz Crude Oil Tractor. It means he *
saves each year up to £l5O on the running costs of his
previous tractor —a total of £1,500 in 10 years, which
more than refunds the capital invested in any one of the
three new 25, 35 and 40 H.P. K.L. Bulldog or Lanz
Crude Oil Tractors.
BULLDOG’S wear, maintenance and de-
preciation is less than ONE-THIRD that of
ANY OTHER TRACTOR.
The remarkable ability of K.L. Bulldog or Lanz Crude
Oil Tractors to stand up longer under physical punish-
ment ... to give extra power, higher efficiency and more
trouble-free performance is due to its sturdy and
remarkably tough engine. With only 8 main moving
parts, there is nothing to go wrong. No complicated or
delicate mechanism to break down or need regular
ftyu
adjustment. The sheer simpli-
city of its design and construc-
tion reduces wear maintenance
and replacement to the barest
minimum—to a mere fraction of
the upkeep costs associated with
the running of other types of
high speed, complex, multi-
cylinder tractor engines.
fuy
crude oil
How to make your next tractor
A MONEY-SAVING INVESTMENT
See your local Bulldog agent straight away. Ask him to
explain to you the savings you can make by switching
over to a K.L. Bulldog or Lanz Crude Oil Tractor.
Models are now becoming available for early delivery,
so ask him for a priority booking and make your
new tractor an investment that works for you while
it pays for itself.
THE SIMPLEST. STRONGEST. MOST
ECONOMICAL TRACTORS Ever Built!
tiL&CI^LANZ
BUI LI IG
ChudeOU TRACTORS
25, 35 & 40 H.P. MODELS
State Distributors:
N.S.W., Dangar, Gedye & Malloch Ltd., 10-14 Young St., Sydney. VICTORIA, K.L. Tractor Sales Pty. Ltd., 304
Spencer St., Melb. SOUTH AUSTRALIA, Elder, Smith & Co. Ltd., 27-31 Currie St., Adelaide. WESTERN
AUSTRALIA, Kelly & Lewis (W.A.) Pty. Ltd., 349 William St., Perth. TASMANIA, K.L. Distributors Pty. Ltd.,
233 Elizabeth St., Hobart. QUEENSLAND, K.L. Tractor SalesPty. Ltd., 121 Brunswick St., Valley, Brisbane.
KL2OI
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
Soviet Strength v. United States Strength.
The following assessment of
respective Soviet and American
strength by “U.S. News and
World Report” is based on the
latest available information:
Simple facts about Russia re-
veal that she needs things that
only the outside world can
supply, Russia is strong in man-
power and in square miles of
territory, but weak compared
to the U.S. in nearly all else.
To break the bottlenecks now
limiting Russia’s drive to in-
dustrial power the Soviet Union
must look West. Washington is
now paying more attention to
everyday facts in appraising
Russia’s real strength.
Russia’s population is close to
200.000. against about
148.000. in the U.S. The
Soviet Union has 8,708,000
square miles of territory to the
3,022,000 in the U.S.
Iron ore in the ground in
Russia is about twice the amount
of U.S. reserves. Russia has
plenty of high-grade manganese
and bauxite ore, scarce in the
U.S. Coal and petroleum re-
serves still underground in
Russia are large, too, but only
one-third as large as probable
U.S. reserves.
Machinery to match U.S.
machinery in quality or in
quantity is lacking in Russia.
Skilled labor is short, too. Most
Russians are untrained farm-
workers. Non - agricultural
workers in Russia total only
33.600.000, as compared to a
1948 average of about 51,000,000
in the U.S.
Soviet planners are out to ex-
pand Russian industry at all
costs. But to support even the
existing industrial population
Russia is forced to concentrate
much of its energy on the farms.
Food production in Russia is
beset by troubles not evident bn
the surface, but a few facts tell
much of the story. Arable land
in the Soviet Union, a nation
almost three times as large as
the U.S., is about 600,000,000
acres, compared to 500,000,000
acres in the U.S. Much of the
Soviet area is swampy tundra,
frozen wastes and desert.
j Cattle total 52,000,000 head
in Russia, while the U.S. has
78.600.000 head. Hog popula-
tion of Russia is 13,400,000.
There are 55,000,000 hogs in
U.S.
Tractors now in use on Rus-
sian farms total 400,000. Ameri-
can farmers use 3,114,596 trac-
tors. Horses on Russian farms
number 12,000,000 compared to
6.607.000 on American farms.
A bushel of Russian wheat
represents much more human
labor than a bushel of U.S.
wheat, and distribution of food
is a greater problem in Russia.
Transportation is a basic Rus-
sian weakness. To knit their
great country together as a
match for the Russians
would need greater networks of
railroads, highways and airlines
than those in the U.S. These
are lacking. Railroad mileage
in Russia totals 70,000 miles,
less than a third of the length
of U.S. railways. Russian rail-
ways are in poor repair ; much
of the equipment needs replace-
ment. Locomotives produced in
Russia last year totalled 890,
not enough for replacement of
worn-out locomotives. In the
same year the U.S. produced
1487 locomotives. Freight-cars
built in Russia in 1948 num-
bered 39,200, while • the U.S.
put 102,737 new freight-cars in
service.
Roads in Russia add up to
481.000 miles. Only about half
are hard-surfaced roads, and
even the best of these do ncft
compare with the majority of
the U.S. roads, which add up to
3.010.000 miles. Motor vehicles
in Russia, both trucks and pas-
senger cars, total 760,000. The
U.S. has nearly 38,000,000
trucks and passenger cars. •
Airline routes in Russia,
stretching the length and breadth
of a vast country, total 110,000
miles. U.S. airlines provide
service on 95,500 miles of routes.
Air passengers carried on Rus-
sian airlines last year totaled
305.000. In the U.S. in the
same period the airlines carried
12,749,733 passengers.
Communications in Russia
are far below U.S. standards.
Letters are frequently lost and
often delayed. Mail from Mos-
cow to Odessa, for example,
takes about 20 times as long as
mail from New York to
Chicago, a comparable distance.
Telegrams transmitted inside
Russia in 1946 totalled
175.000. as compared to
220.000. transmitted within
the U.S. Telephones, widely
used in Moscow and Leningrad,
are few outside the large cities
of Russia. There are only
1.500.000 in the Soviet Union,
while the U.S, has nearly
35.000.
Delay in communications and
transport adds to the burden of
an economy hard hit by war.
Invasion and the destruction of
war wiped out about one-
quarter of all property in
Russia.
Industrial output in Russia,
as a result,' still is 6 per cent, be-
low the levels of 1940, while
production in the U.S, is about
54 per cent, above U.S. levels
for the same year. And Russia
still has far to go to reach U.S.
industrial power.
Steel produced in Russia last
year was only 23 per cent, of
U.S. output. Coal mined in
1948 was only 31 per cent, of
the ambunt mined in the U.S.
Oil pumped out of the ground
in Russia is only about 10 per
cent, of the oil drawn from
U.S. wells. Electric-power pro-
duction in Rqssia is about one-
fifth of U.S. output.
* Trucks and automobiles made
m the U.S. outnumber tljose
made in Russia 30 to one.
In addition, U.S. production
is geared to consumer needs,
while the Russian consumer
stands at the end of the distri-
bution line, getting what is left
after the planners take what
they want for industrial expan-
sion. Standard of living in
Russia, as a result, remains one
of the lowest in the world. It is
higher than the Chinese standard
but lower than the standards of
the Balkans, lower by far than
those of Western Europe or of
the Americas.
Housing, always bad in
Russia, is a major problem. The
average Russian today may have
as much as 65 square feet of
housing as compared to 280
square feet for each American.
In Russian cities housing space
is down below 40 square feet per
person. In the country many
Russians live in huts.
Daily diet for the average
Russian consists largely of black
bread. Grain products are 80
per cent, of the Russian’s food,
but only 14 per cent, of the
average American’s food is
made of grain.
Clothing is hard to get in
Russia.' An industrial worker in
Russia must pay a sum equal to
his total wages for 12 weeks to
get a new suit. An American
worker can get a better suit with
one week’s pay.
Radios are a luxury that few
Russians can afford. In the
whole of Russia there are only
130 radio-stations and 5,500,000
radio-sets. In the U.S. there are
2713 radio - stations and
75,000,000 radio-sets.
Television in Russia is based
on transmission of 625 lines, as
against 525 in the U.S., result-
ing in a clearer picture, postcard
size, for the Russians. But
there are only two television
transmitters and 15,000 re-
ceivers in Russia, as compared
to 60 transmitters and about
800,000 receiving-sets in opera-
tion in the U.S.
Motion-picture theatres in
Russia total 768, as compared
with 18,765 in the U.S. Russia
also has 15,000 sound-picture
projectors, but most of these are
used for propaganda purposes,
not for entertainment.
Medical care, though free for
the Russian, does not approach
U.S. standards. In the whole of
Russia there are only 831,800
hospital beds and 130,300 doc-
tors. The U.S. has 1,425,222
hospital beds and 165,000 doc-
tors to take care of a smaller
population.
“Added up, the simple facts
of present-day Russia are help-
ing diplomats to decide just
what Moscow wants and how
badly Moscow wants it. To
attain even the production tar-
gets set for the current five-year
plan the Soviet Government
needs the kind of help that can
be obtained only through in-
creased trade with the West.
This need is turning out to be a
major objective of Russian tac-
tics in negotiations with the
Western Powers.”
Human Factor in Air
Accidents.
With its customary thorough-
ness, the R.A.F. has had a team
of scientists and psychologists
on a 10-years job of investigat-
ing the causes of pilots’ errors
in handling aircraft, particularly
the human factor as a cause of
air accidents.
Over .the 10 years, says a Lon-
don “Times” special corres-
pondent’s report, they tested
2000 pilots, with results that are
“expected to play an important


Bring them down....
with clean-killing
ELEY-KYNOCH
Shotgun Cartridges
An abundance of quail, a good dog,
and a supply of Eley-Kynoch Grand
Prix cartridges will ensure a perfect
day’s shooting.
Make every shot a winner, ask your
storekeeper for 8 or 10 shot Eley-
Kynoch Grand Prix Cartridges.
-2
I
i
Cl
ELET-KYNOCH
Shotgun
CARTRIDGES
IMS
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND
LIMITED
part in reducing the number of
accidents attributable to human
error.”
One of the most striking con-
clusions reached was that
“fatigue is not the major cause
of pilot error.” This, based on
the very thorough testing, up-
sets the belief hitherto held that
errors are likely to become more
frequent towards the end of a
flight.
It was found that there are
two types of pilots’ errors —
those of “overaction” and those
of “inattention.” “Overaction
errors, made invariably by im-
pulsive, highly-strung men, are
judged to be less dangerous
than errors of inattention, made
by the more sluggish type of
pilot.”
Some pilots undergoing tests
made “unreasonable and stupid
mistakes,” such as attempting
to land the aircraft while at
1000 ft. and, told to fly on a
course of 90 degrees, turning
through 90 degrees from the
course being flown.
Also, “pilots’ reports of what
happened in a test were ex-
tremely unreliable, misleading
and, in some cases, fictitious.”
Some often were quite unaware
of gross deficiencies in their
performances. Tests proved
that intense noise tends to in-
crease pilots’ tendency to erjor.
“Ten pilots who were given
whisky to test the effect of
alcohol on their flying ability
obtained the expected low
marks.” An uncomfortable and
insecure feeling, closely related
to anxiety, was also shown to
lead to errors of judgment, but
“such tension may often be
beneficial by causing pilots to
anticipate every danger which
may overtake them and to re-
hearse how they may avoid
danger.”
The investigators’ report sug-
gested that much could be done
by flying instructors to detect
men who may be prone to ac-
cidents, and that “they should
pay attention not so much to fly-
ing ability as to how easily a
pilot’s skill can be upset when
he encounters difficulties.”
Harry Bridges.
enrolled in the party under the
name of Harry Dorgan.
“The present action against
Mr. Bridges differs * from pre-
vious actions in that the ques-
tion of civil liberties is not
directly involved. If the Govern-
ment succeeds in persuading the
jury of Mr. Bridges’s member-
ship in the party, it will not be
necessary to prove that such
membership is sufficient evi-
dence of a desire to overthrow
the Government by force. If
Mr. Bridges is convicted, and the
conviction sustained after appeal.
For about, a dozen years one
or another U.S. Government
group has been trying to get
Australian Harry Bridges hoofed
back to his native heath.
Organiser and president of the
U.S. West Coast Longshore-
men’s Bridges was de-
clared by the Congress Dies
Committee (jn 1939) to be a
member of the Communist
party, “and therefore dedicated
to the overthrow of the Govern-
ment of the United States by
force and violence.”
Attempts then made by the
committee to have Bridges de-
ported failed on the officially-
taken ground that “the testi-
mony concerning Bridges’s affi-
liations with the party was not
conclusive,” and on the further
ground that a Supreme Court
ruling had laid down that “mem-
bership of the party, even where
acknowledged, was insufficient
reason for deportation.”
In answer to that ruling,
Congress adopted an amendment
to the immigration laws designed
to fit the Bridges case, and on
the strength of this amending
the then Attorney-General issued
an order for deportation. On
appeal, that order was invali-
dated by a five-to-three decision
of the Supreme Court.
That, with Bridges’s admission
to American citizenship in the
meantime, brings the story up to
the current new attempt to get
the Australian deported.
The present action differs im-
portantly from the previous
moves. It is based on a perjury
charge. “The perjury,” Wash-
ington “Post” explains, “is said
to have consisted in Bridges’s
statement under oath that he was
not a member of the Communist
party. The Government now
professes to have evidence, not
included in previous litigations,
to show that Bridges has been
a Communist since 1933, A year
ago his former wife, Agnes
Bridges, testified that she had
actually seen Bridges’s member-
ship-book, which showed he was
—Manchester (Eng.) “Daily Dispatch."
GRAND INTERNATIONAL: INSPECTING THE COURSE.
his citizenship will be automati-
cally nullified and he will be
liable to deportation at the ex-
piration of whatever sentence is
imposed.” /
One loophole mentioned is
the statute of limitations, but
the prosecuting side has con-
tended that the amended Immi-
gration Act extends its period
to five years, which would
cover the Bridges case, “If,”
reports N. Y. ‘Times,” “the
Supreme Court threw out the
five-year premise the Govern-
ment would drop the indict-
ment and fall back on the fraud
action. Instead of rendering
Mr. Bridges liable to fines "and
imprisonment this would in
effect be another deportation
action, such as he has success-
fully weathered twice in the
last decade.”
Chicago “Tribune,” while it
would loudly applaud the hoof-
ing out of Bridges, takes a
cynical view of the current pro-
ceedings: “It took the New
Deal [i.e., Democrats in office]
only a week after president Philip
Murray of the C. 1.0. had pub-
licly declared his enmity to Harry
Bridges to discover that the boss
of the C. 1.0. Longshoremen’s
Union is a Communist and an
undesirable who ought to be de-
ported to his native Australia.
Everybody but the New Deal
had recognised these facts for
years, but the Administration
moved against Bridges, not be-
cause he offered affront to the
American people or the lawful
authority of the United States
Government, but because he riow
offends the puissant Mr. Mur-
ray.”
Adding that “Twice before the
New Deal made half-hearted
motions towards deporting
Bridges, but always found a good
reason for getting him off the
hook after he was impaled,” the
“Tribune” concluded: “This
time, it would seem, the New
Dealers mean business. They
feel that they must return a few
of Murray’s favors.”
Cominform.
“U.N. World” reports that
key figures in the Cominform
(whose world headquarters are
located in Bucharest) already
have been alerted to stand by
for possible orders to move the
Cominform underground again
in case of its above-ground abo-
lition.
Stalin, the well-informed un-
official U.N.O. organ adds, is
known to be completely dissatis-
fied with the accomplishments
of the Cominform to date. “It
failed to inspire ‘spontaneous’
and sincere collaboration be-
tween the U.S.S.R, and the
members of its Eastern bloc.
It failed to deliver France and
Italy into the U.S.S.R. orbit.
Even more importantly, it failed
to maintain solidarity within the
Cominform itself. It was un-
able to prevent the Tito-
Gomulka - Kostov defections,
which are viewed by Stalin with
the gravest concern, since they
threaten to plague the Com-
munist International with the
same bacilli of ‘ideological
deviationism’ which Stalin
thought he had extinguished
for ever by means of the 1936-37
purges.”
What mainly prevents “disso-
lution” of the Cominform, ac-
cording to this report, is that a
Politburo majority holds that
“members of the Communist
parties in the Soviet Union and
in neighboring countries should
not be deprived of an instru-
ment of co-operation among
themselves,” They therefore
now seek a formula which will
limit the Cominform’s visible
activity to the Soviet, Union and
satellites.
Anti-Nazi Germans.
Anti-Communists in Europe
generally would have been
watching the Paris Foreign
Ministers’ Conference with
special interest, particularly—in
the view of an “American Mer-
cury” writer —the many Ger-
mans who are now both anti-
communist and anti-Nazi.
“If we should decide to retire
from the battle for the sake of
a temporary truce in the ‘cold
war,’ and leave the Berliners to
be overwhelmed by the Soviet
Union, it might never again be
possible to enlist the German
people on our side.
“The resistance movements
elsewhere —in Poland, Czecho-
slovakia and other Soviet satel-
lite countries—-would be dealt a
mortal blow if we should once
again appease Russia and betray
those who trusted in our
promise not to abandon them.
“The unholy alliance of Com-
munists and Nazis, so evident in
Berlin (where even the chief of
the Russian-sector police is a
former Nazi), would then not
only be able to destroy the
democratic movement of infinite
promise born in this ruined city
and standing as a beacon to the
oppressed but also extinguish all
hope behind the Iron Curtain.
Germany might then once again
in despair repudiate Western
civilisation instead of becoming
a bulwark for its defence.”
The writer was convinced in
Berlin that “it is not only the
fear of Russia which inspires
the German resistance to Com-
munism. It is as much their ex-
perience under the Nazis, and
their realisation that Commun-
ism means a repetition of it,
which holds the Germans on
our side of the Iron Curtain,”
Churchill, Rising 75.
By way of showing that the
great old warhorse, who’ll be
75 in November, still has a kick
in him, a “Collier’s” writer
notes the following as some of
Mr. Churchill’s activities within
a fortnight period:
He made two major speeches.
He dictated several thousand
words of his memoirs, using up
a relay of five secretaries and
the small hours of the night to
do so. He painted, and he pub-
lished a book on painting as a
pastime. A best-seller, it started
a rush for oils, brushes and can-
vases. Mr. Churchill laid bricks
at his country home, Chartwell,
in Kent, prowled around his
360-acre farm in his jeep, pre-
sided over the weekly meetings
of the Tory Shadow Cabinet
and framed political strategy at
a conference of Conservative-
party workers. Then he donned
boots, jodhpurs and derby,
clambered on a horse and went
fox hunting.
Dragnet Digest.
Atom-bomb Secret. —The size of
the U.S. atomic stockpile is, states
“U.N. World,” known to at least 24
Americans: Mr. Truman, five mem-
bers of the Atomic Energy Commis-
sion, four civilian heads of the armed
forces, three directors of the great
atomic-energy laboratories and 11 of
a top-ranking group of generals and
admirals. “Those claiming to be best
informed insist that there are sur-
prisingly few A-bombs in stock— bat
those which do exist can last 1900'
years in storage.”
* * ♦ *
UJS.-Russia Trade. —Reports of im-
provement in trade between the U.S.
and beyond the Iron Curtain need to
be checked against the fact that there
is plenty of room for improvement;
a very deep drop having to be first
surmounted before there can be any
real advance. ‘‘U.S. News and World
Report” finds that U.S. commercial
exports to Russia and satellites this
year are at an annual rate of only
$70,000,000. In 1947 they were
$205,000,000; which was no great
shakes, anyway, amounting to only
H per cent, of total U.S. exports.
* * * *
“New Look" in China. —As with
the ladies, it’s really an old look that
a London “Times” China correspon-
dent notes as the prevailing fashion
where the Corns have taken over.
They’re starting off, he says, “at
exactly the same point as the Rus-
sians in 1917. There is the same
insistence on slovenly general appear-
ance as the hall-mark of the true
proletarian (now called New Demo-
crat). An ugly slate-blue uniform,
padded for winter wear, is the garb
of this New Democracy. The people
of Peking, who were formerly noted
for their attention to their dress, now
follow the new fashion and go about
in dirty old clothes.”
* * * *
Com. World Membership. —The
Corns still claim an over-all world
membership of 20,000,000; but that
figure, in the phrase of N. Y. “Daily
Mirror” labor writer Victor Riesel,
is “as padded as a race-track tout’s
shoulders.” Actually, Riesel adds,
members have been leaving by the
hundreds of thousands. Hence the
frantic burst of Cominform activity,
particularly against the heretical Tito,
and in the launching of new “youth” 1
and other “fronts” in thb U.S. and
elsewhere.
* * * ♦
Invented in Australia. —For years
an Australian boot-polish has been a
best-seller in the U.S.; now, reports
N. Y. “Journal of Commerce,” “A
new type of kerosene refrigerator,
made in Australia, is ready for dis-
tribution” by a New York company.
A feature of the type (familiar enough
in Australia) which the distributors
are emphasising is that “it will never
be noisy, as there are no moving
parts.”
* * ♦ ♦
More Rayon. —The Textiles Eco-
nomic Bureau puts the U.S. rayon-
producing industry’s output for 1948
at a record 1,124,300,0001 b. It’s 15
per cent, higher than the previous
year, and nearly three times as much
as the 1939 level.
* * * ♦
Fiery Trails from China. —Describ-
ing south-east Asia as “already a
cockpit for Communism,” a “Chris-
tian Science Monitor” correspondent
points out that Communism’s suc-
cess in China greatly aggravates the
danger of its spreading: “Fiery trails
lead from China into a great deal
of very dry tinder. More than
10,000,000 Chinese are scattered
throughout Malaya, Burma, Siam,
Indo-China, Indonesia and the Philip-
pines. They are as industrious as
they are clannish, and so prolific in
reproduction that their numerical
superiority over indigenous peoples
is only a matter of time.” The cor-
respondent adds that “If the British
were to lose control of Malaya, there
is no doubt the Chinese would get
it, for they comprise the energetic,
capable, industrious half of the
population. There are more Chinese
than Siamese in Siam’s capital.”


Hxibc
FIRST IN 1888
No other Battery can match . . .
ftyu
FIRST TODAY!
Exide’s 61 Years’ Experience
EXIDE'BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD., 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
XA9.25
PERSONAL ITEMJ
Competent soldier, now turned Johan-
nesburg businessman, Major-General Sir
Francis de Guingand is in Australia to
stimulate reciprocal trade between this
country and S’Africa. In Jo’burg a
director of companies handling man-
ganese and torbanite (a petrol-producing
mineral), he was Montgomery’s Chief-of-
Staff in the Middle East. Beginning his
soldiering at the end of World War I,
with graduation from Sandhurst into the
West Yorkshire Regiment, Sir Francis
served with the King’s African Rifles,
subsequently commanding them in
Nyasaland, and when World War II
began was military-assistant to Hore-
Belisha, then Secretary of State for War.
Within two years he was with Mont-
gomery as Director of Military Intelli-
gence, which post led to his next, Chiel-
of-Staff of the Eighth Army during its
savage seesawing across the Western
Desert. With Alamein in the bag, he took
time off to marry a Brisbane girl in Cairo ;
then he rejoined the fray to such effect
that he now adds to his bushel of British
decorations military honors from
America, France, Russia and Holland.
In 58 years’ auctioneering, Townsville
old-timer Herb McHugh has knocked
down enough beasts to stock the Darling
Downs, where he first learned to handle
the hammer. Heading north from stock-
agent Alex McPhie’s Toowoomba office
in 1898, because then the great grazing
stations with their well-borings were get-
ting under way, McHugh helped to open
McPhie’s Hughenden branch, and was
there when the 1902 drought, the worst in
his memory, seared the north. Since then
he’s sold sheep and cattle throughout the
State, once knocking down 28,000
wethers at one sale. After World War I
he opened an agency on his own account
in Townsville, selling out in 1931 to
Queensland Primary Producers, and tak-
ing over that association’s management.
He had often thought he’d seen most
things in the auctioneering game; now,
with bullocks selling at £2O a head, he’s
sure of it, and has retired.
Landed the national directorship of
Australian Rules football, Bruce Andrew,
Collingwood’s flying premiership winger
of the late ’twenties and early ’thirties.
Just as ardent off the field, Andrew pro-
duced and directed, last year, the Aus-
tralian National Football Council’s
propaganda film, “Australian Football,”
screened throughout Australia and in
America. He also compiled the games
official textbook, 75,000 copies of which
are on their way to Australian schools
and clubs. A cricketer as well, he got
time off from his flying with the war-
time R.A.A.F. to play two games at
Lord’s. Until his new appointment he
wrote on both games for Melbourne’s
“Sporting Globe.”
A British architect, William Newton,
has sounded Victoria’s Agent-General in
London on an idea of building houses in
Australia of Newton’s “Maycrete,” a
combination of cement, sand and saw-
dust, which has provided their dwellings
for many blitzed Londoners. Newton,
educated at the Royal College of Art, at
which he became Professor of Archi-
tecture, has designed housing blocks
throughout Britain, as well as the Marl-
borough College Hall and 20 of its class-
rooms, Territorial headquarters in
Albany-street, London, and the White
City there. Further afield, he laid out
the development scheme for Makerere
College in Uganda and the Gordon
College in Khartoum.
The Right Rev. G. H. Cranswick, new
Commissioner of the Australian Council
of the World Council of Churches, is off
on an all-States tour awakening citizen-
support of that body. An educationalist
of mark, the bishop is as well author and
traveller. He left St. Margaret’s, Brighton
(Eng.), to become vice-principal of
Noble College, in Masulipatam (India) in
1910, and the next year moved to head-
mastership of the Bezwada High School.
He had been rector of St. Paul’s in both
Chatswood (N.S.W.) and Bendigo, and
was Bishop of Gippsland before succeed-
the chairmanship of the Australian
Board of Missions, and with it responsi-
bility for administering missions from
the South Seas to New Guinea.
Melbourne Stock Exchange is an unex-
pected source for a defence of Binghi, but
Harold Thonemann, broker and author
of Tell the White Man, published by
Collins, London, happens to be part-
owner of, and spends a lot of his time
on, Elsey and Hodgson Downs cattle
stations in the Territory area immortal-
ised by Mrs. Ameas Gunn. To attract
native labor, Thonemann and partners
experimented on their stations by im-
proving conditions, even instituting child-
endowment for the lubras; one result, a
great increase in the population. The
broker’s book tackles its subject from an
unusual angle, in that it purports to be
the autobiography of an intelligent-
looking, middle-aged lubra, who de-
scribes her tribal structure and customs,
and the mixed good and bad effects of
contact with the white man. Thonemann
draws no moral conclusions, but strik-
ingly contrasts two incompatible cul-
tures. The author was once M.L.A. for
Toorak and Secretary and Whip to the
U.A.P. Schooled at Melbourne
Grammar, he’s chairman of Metro-
politan Fresh Food and Ice and director
of Atlas Assurance and various mining
ventures. He was a lieutenant in the
R.A.F. in World War I.
Another German scientist to be brought
to Australia by the Department of Post-
war Reconstruction is Dr. Fritz Albrecht,
formerly of the German meteorological
service. He was a research worker at
Potsdam Observatory ; his job in Aus-
tralia will be study of solar radiation.
In its new Director of Adult Education
Tasmania looked for a non-academic type
who knew Australians and had widely-travelled
experience. It certainly got its man in Leslie
Greener, S’African-born Sydney journalist.
Greener and his mother left Mafeking on the
last train out before the siege—his father, then
a captain in the Cape Mounted Rifles, stayed
to fight. Sent to England to be educated, young
Greener cleared that ■ up, entered Sandhurst,
then the Indian Army, and heard his first angry
shot from a nut-and-bolt-loaded blunderbuss in
the Punjab Rebellion of 1919. One of the
post-war Army retirements, he shared a chateau
in France, where he learned French, for no
other reason than that he wanted to. It was
to prove his salvation. After an unregretted
spell catching and gutting N.Z. blue-cod off
Stewart Island, he attended an art school in
Christchurch (MX.), met his future wife, and,
their resources pooled, went to study art in
Paris, had his work hung in a Salon exhibition
and ended in a garret. Then a friend in Egypt
cabled him an offer to teach French in an
Alexandrian college. There four years, he next
became staff-artist with a Chicago University
archaeological expedition fossicking at Luxor,
his job being to record in black-and-white what
was fossicked. A copy of the result is now
in the Mitchell Library. After that, Greener
moved to the Cairo tourist bureau to edit a
pictorial magazine which, under his competence,
collected a Paris Grand Prix. Shifting to Aus-
tralia, he was on Sydney “Pix” when war broke.
LESLIE GREENER, educator-at-large.
He joined the A.I.F. as a private, but, after
preparing a report on the Western Desert
“which someone noticed,” he was commissioned
Intelligence Officer with the Eighth Division.
But the Eighth headed for Malaya, and
Changi, where, in between organising morale-
steadying instruction, ranging from the dead
languages to advertising and shorthand, he wrote
a book, He Lived In My Shoes, which was
Red Paged favorably last year. All of which
could be the reason why Greener landed the
Tassie job from 57 other applicants.
Garnet Carroll, who garnered an
0.8. E. in the Birthday Honors for ser-
vices to the Australian theatre, got his
first stage job as chorus-boy in 1927
at the Princess, Melbourne; 1947 found
him buying a share in Ben Fuller’s
interests. Since then his burly frame has
been mostly around the same playhouse,
once the Cinderella of the city’s theatres
and at present the scene of an effort to
put the Australian stage on its own feet—
almost on its four feet, since the current
GARNET CARROLL,
of Melbourne Princess.
season includes Australian opera, drama
and ballet. Carroll founded the Dramatic
Art and Educational Guild, directed the
tours of the Boyd Neels, the Ballet Ram-
bert and the Old Vies, and has backed
his fancy to the extent of giving 20 weeks
in each year to local, productions at the
Princess. /Lately he reopened the King’s
to the notes of “Rusty Bugles.” A big
fellow with a big heart, his aim since he
graduated from the chorus has been to
help less fortunate troupers and to im-
prove the standard of legit, production.
A young Melbourne industrial designer,
John Crow, has won a prize in a Chicago
“Tribune’’ home-designing contest for his
small apartment for returned serviceman
and wife. Crow has left his prize on
deposit in New York pending a trip 1 there.
Lewis Luxton, 0.8. E., appointed in
Melbourne assistant-general manager of
the Shell Co. of Australia, could cast an
expert eye on the Olympic contests. In
1932 he stroked the English crew at
Los Angeles, after gaining his double-
blue for rowing and swimming when at
Cambridge qualifying for a B.A. degree.
Thomas Mulherin, president of the
Mackay (Q.j district branch of the R.S.L.,
has been presented with the league’s life-
membership badge. He’s earned it.
Commissioned in the 2nd L.H. Regiment,
he returned to start the Farleigh (near
Mackay) sub-branch in 1920, and has
worked solidly for the league ever since,
thrice representing Queensland on the
Federal executive. In the later war he
did his bit recruiting and organising war-
loans. He’s a sugar-man as well, first
chairman of the Mackay District Cane-
growers’ executive, and War II Digger
canegrowers have no need of reference
libraries while he’s around.
“C.Q.”: There is a refreshing optimism
about Sir Stanley Unwin, who has been
quizzing the Australian and M.L. book-
trade. Sole proprietor of the British firm
of Allen and Unwin, chairman of the
Bodley Head and president as well of
the International Publishers’ Congress,
he has made the surprising revelation
that paper is plentiful in England ; it’s
made from esparto grass, which grows in
non-dollar North Africa. The dollar, he
explains, is the cause of restricting import
of Australian books to England, not pre-
judice against Empire writers. Firms im-
porting Australian books before the war
may import double the quantity now,
except novels and children’s books, which
are reprinted in England. Sir Stanley
lost over a million volumes in the war
from one bomb-burst, but be evened
things up by salvaging the Phaidon Press
from Vienna before the Nazis reached it.
The Phaidon Press has for generations
been one of the finest reproducers of Old
Masters ; possessing it has helped to make
London the centre of mass-produced art
printing. Sir Stanley must be the most
foreign-decorated bookmaker he has
orders from three European countries.
William Hudson, Sydney Water
Board’s 53-year-old chief engineer,
describes his appointment as Commis-
sioner of the Snowy scheme as an en-
gineer’s dream. So it is—one ful-
filled after nearly 30 years of building
dams in Scotland, New Zealand and
N.S.W. Born in Nelson (M.L.), Hudson,
at 16, was at sea headed for London Uni-
versity when World War I broke; he
studied there until old enough to join
the Yorkshire Regiment, with which he
fought in France. Leaving London in
1920 with an honors degree in science,
he did a post-graduate course in hydro-
electric engineering at Grenoble (France)
and returned to London to Armstrong-
Whitworth. A year there and he was back
home, a junior engineer on the Mangahao
scheme outside Wellington. From then
on he rose, as it were, with his dams
the 230 ft.-high Arapuni dam in MX.,
the Nepean in N.S.W., (the Galloway
scheme in Scotland (seven dams) and,
for Sydney Water Board, the Woronora
and Warragamba dams, the latter, 400 ft.
high, being the largest water-stopper in
the Southern Hemisphere. Galloway
was the first job of which he had com-
plete charge ; coincidentally, he met there
the same conditions of building water-
races along the area’s contours and driv-
ing tunnels from higher dams to lower
as will apply on the Snowy. Hudson
hides his know-how behind a quiet,
almost deprecating exterior. His spare-
time passion is yachting.
Back in Melbourne after a year’s leave,
Mischa Kogan, leading viola player of
the Melbourne Symphony Orchestra. He
found England super-saturated with
concerts. There were too many concerts,
too many orchestras and too few re-
hearsals, and some of the world s
greatest musicians were playing to half-
empty halls. He himself played with 61
orchestras in seven months.
Queensland lost a good businessman
and a better citizen when Charles Bagley
passed on at Mackay, where he was born.
Sometime president of the State’s
Chamber of Commerce, he had been a
life-member of the ambulance since 1927
and was a front-rank Rotarian. Recently
he was re-elected chairman of the Mackay
Harbor Board—he’s held a lien on the
post for the past 16 terms ; Forgan Smith
put him on the Royal Commission of
Inquiry to investigate the possibilities of
a harbor there. Never too busy to help
the other fellow, he was 65 at the end.
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 67, shipping knight Thomas
Gordon, Australia’s Director of Shipping tor
the last three years of World War I. In a lire
of diverse business experience he had oeen
chairman or director of half-a-dozen Australian
shipping concerns (but notably of Birt and Co.;,
chairman of the Belgian Chamber of Commerce
(which brought him a knighthood of the Order
of Leopold) and, for a year, M.L.C. He was
knighted in 1938. Many charitable bodies
benefited from his spare-time interest, among
them, naturally enough. King George s Fund
for Sailors and the Australian Merchant Sea-
men’s Relief Fund.
In Melbourne, at 57, the month after he was
inducted as Moderator of the Vic. Presbyterian
Church, the Rt. Rev. R. J. Howie, a gemal
cleric who was a welfare officer in Palestine
with the A.F.C.
In Adelaide, at 79, Henry Crosby, for many
years member for Barossa in S.A. Assembly, and
one-time chairman of the State’s Liberal party
and chairman of committees in the House. A
keen motorist, he had been president of the
Motor Traders’ Association.
In Melbourne, at 47, Dr. Geoffrie Burston,
remembered by War Two Diggers in the Middle
East, where he practised with the Seventh
AGH After promotion to lieutenant-colonel
he became C.O. of the First Australian Con-
valescent Depot at Gaza, in Palestine. Back
home, he was with the Armored Division in
Westralia before taking his discharge and
appointment to the orthopaedic section of Mel-
bourne Repat., where he was at the end.
In Christchurch (M.L.), Edward Francis
Harvey, for years associated with the Canter-
bury Museum, for which, being an expert
ship-modeller, he prepared many ancient and
modern craft. Before his death he was busy
preparing historical exhibits for the Centennial
of Canterbury province next year, including a
diorama of the arrival of the first four ships
jat Lyttelton in 1850.
At 74, at Echuca (Vic.), William John Ander-
son, probably the oldest skipper and shipwright
on the Murray.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Sydney is not gay. Neither is it
amused. Never probably since early
pioneer days have the streets been so
sparsely populated. Department stores
are echoing avenues of twilight, and both
salesgirls and buyers have a listless air.
The girl and boy worker stood down
through no fault of their own have a be-
wildered and forsaken look. “It’s like
being in a drifting boat,” one young girl
confided. Department stores open late
and close early—at a quarter to four the
shutters go up. The woman at home de-
cides to stay there because of reduced
train, tram and ferry timetables, plus very
often a reduced pay envelope in the
home. In the old days our forebears
knew all about the Miner’s Right. We in
a cold, comfortless and almost blacked-
out city know all about the Miner’s
Might.
If any of the workers are poetic or ar-
tistic and live across the harbor they will
enjoy the glorious evening skies, clear
gold up the rivers, deeply-edged with rose
and pinky mauves over Cremorue and
Rose Bay. A chemist friend explains the
clear beauty of these evening skies as due
to the absence of smoke. Most of us,
however, will welcome the smoke-
smudged clouds when factories are going
full-blast once more.
The Fourth of July dawned bright and
sunny in Sydney. The city was arched
with blue sky and warmed with a sun,
spring-like in its ardor. And the people
of the city, recalling the anniversary
it was and how they had celebrated other
such days with soldier lads of Uncle
Sam, grew a little reflective. They thought
of the war grayes bordering the Pacific
where so many brave young Americans
sleep the long sleep. They thought of
planes shot down, and heard of no more.
And in the midst of this last Fourth of
July revels, many of them, remembering,
turned down an empty glass.
You can trust poet Rod Quinn to do
a graceful thing. On the first day of issue
of the Henry Lawson stamp Rod posted
a message in the official first-day cover
to his writer-friends. One greeting read:
Allow me to present a fellow-poet to
you. May you also be on the road to
fame.
Margaret Salenger, of Killara, writes
stirring letters to her family about her
doings overseas. England was in spring
when the Sydney girl arrived, and you
know what that means. There were
daffodils and crocus and violets every-
where, even in window-boxes in White-
hall. Tfie Chelsea Flower Show, seen
in company with friends from home, was
a thing of wonder. In particular the
giant delphiniums proved astounding—
feet-high and with massy stems, they
ranged through blues and violets. One
giant fellow was “pink and startling.”
Then there was a dinner-party with kins-
man Lord Nathan (he’s a cousin), Lady
Nathan and other members of the family
at the Houses of Parliament. This was
really a super turn-out for England these
days—fish and roast duck on the menu.
Most thrilling was the tour -of the
Houses of Lords and of Commons
under Lord Nathan’s guidance. The
night when London was lit-up to pre-
war voltage and the Londoners gathered
thousands deep around the Eros in Pic-
cadilly Circus was unforgettable. Mar-
garet has also visited, with her friends
the Leslie Stuarts, the North of Ireland
and Eire. The hills and the vales of
Donegal, the soft mist-like rain, the
glorious food, the old stone homes dating
from before Cromwell are recorded with
delight in her screeds. Margaret’s greatest
thrill is close at hand. She has been
bidden to the Royal garden party at
Buckingham Palace on the 21st of this
month.
Good-bye Waltz Time is the title given
to one scene in the Cavalcade of Song to
be presented in the Town Hall on July 20
and 23 in aid of the T.B. Soldiers,
Sailors and Airmen’s Association. There
will be quite a Noel Coward flavor about
the set. The dancers, dressed in
Edwardian style, will dance to such un-
forgettable and romantic melody as “The
Blue Danube.” This set has been arranged
by Mrs. C. W. Thompson, wife of Lieut.-
Colonel Thompson, and she and her
husband, and Mrs. Thompson’s brother
Roy Buckland and Mrs. Buckland and
their son David will be among the
dancers.
The frocks . worn will be either
heirlooms, such as Doreen Higgins’s,
or made by the wearers under the direc-
tion of Ethel Gabriel, well-known as an
actress and a period-costume expert. That
grand Australian singer Peter Dawson
will play his part in the pageantry. The
whole is under the direction of Mina
Shelley. Plan for reservations is at
Somerset House, Martin-place.
The pride of Major Mitchell’s heart is
the glittering cake given by Marjorie
Lawrence (the prize in a guessing com-
petition). The major is the secretary of
the T.B. Soldiers, Sailors and Airmen’s
Association, and the cake is'on display
at his headquarters. This masterpiece of
the confectioner’s art was presented to
Miss Lawrence by her home town. It
has three tiers, and is decorated with the
local church and hall, Australian wild-
flowers, the kindly furry animals of this
land, while a kookaburra tops the whole.
Last Friday was Badge Day for the
Spastic Centre at Mosman, This was
one of the big efforts in the £lOO,OOO
appeal for the grand work being done
for young sufferers from spastic paralysis.
Martin-place from Pitt- to Castlereagh-
street was lined with actors and actresses
of radio, screen and stage, all eagerly
selling badges.
Uncle Sam put his hand in his pocket
earlier in the week, and handed out to the
Centre 50 per cent, of the funds gathered
from the Fourth of July Ball. Also in
the cause on Sunday there was a barbecue
lunch at Mrs. Gordon Champion’s
Bellevue Hill home, and on September 30
there is to be a ball that will make Cin-
derella envious. She only danced in glass
slippers, but the belles of this ball will
dance in a glasshouse. The ball, to be
called the “Gay ’Nineties,” will be held
in the glasshouse in William-street. Mrs.
W. J. Smith is president of the committee,
which includes all of the city’s Who’s
Who. This photograph of Mrs. McLeod,
who with her husband founded the
Centre, is from Norton Trevaire.
Friends in Maoriland, where he spent
some of his early years in the shipping
business, will grieve to learn of the death
of knight Thomas Gordon. Sir Thomas
was a man of gentle manner —probably
he never spoke harshly to anyone in his
life. He was a grand host, and made a
witty and informative speech. Among
other good causes to which he was a life-
long friend was the Adult Deaf and Dumb
Society. A touching incident at the
funeral service in St. Stephen’s was the
translation of the oration to sign language
by a listener for the benefit of some deaf
and dumb friends. Sincere sympathy is
felt for Sir Thomas’s widow and family.
Singing-teacher Roland Foster’s week-
end birthday party seemed a triumph
over transport till you reflected that most
of the guests had no doubt come on wings
of song. The reception-rooms were like
pages of Roland’s new book Come,
Listen to My Song, for every square
inch contained the people bearing the
names in his autobiography. Mr. Foster,
who is one of the city’s best-known
teachers of singing and is a stalwart of
the Conservatorium, was charmingly
assisted by Mrs. Foster to receive the
company. Her frock of Nile-blue crepes
was ankle-length and gracefully draped.
Among the guests were Director of the
Conservatorium Eugene Goossens and
former Director Dr. Bainton, basso Oscar
Natzka and his wife, Mr. and Mrs. Howe,
representing Collins, who published the
book, Mrs. Florence Taylor, and all the
music importants of the city.
Civilisation owes a great debt to Swit-
zerland. In the many conflicts that have
raged over Europe it has proved an inter-
national buffer, sturdy and resolute. Also,
it is the birthplace of the Red Cross move-
ment. To commemorate the 658th anni-
versary of the foundation of their country
the Consul-General for Switzerland and
Mrs. H. Hedinger have sent out invita-
tions for a buffet lunch in the Australia
Hotel on Monday, August 1.
Background of the official guests at the
American Society’s Fourth of July Ball
was American, British and Philippine
flags. The Trocadero, for the night, was
America in Sydney. U.S. Consul-General
Orsen Nielsen read a message from his
Government in Washington. Climax of
the night was the unfurling of the Stars
and Stripes and Australia’s flag under
bright spotlights. For effect the ballroom
was darkened, and from every table came
the dazzle of sparklers. Each table was
decorated with miniature American
flags, and all were named after U.S.A.
States.
From Melbourne
That genial host U.S, Consul-General
Samuel Fletcher and his charming wife
welcomed many guests at a late-afternoon
party lat their South Yarra residence to
celebrate Independence Day. “Old
Glory” was prominently displayed in the
foyer, and floral decorations in the re-
ception-rooms carried out a red, white
and blue motif in poinsettia, carnations,
iris and hydrangea. The buffet-table was
set with tall red-white-and-blue-striped
candles set in silver candelabra, with two
silver peacocks, tails spread, placed
among the bowls of flowers. The hostess
pinned a purple orchid in her black
romaine afternooa frock, which had gold
and diamond clips at one side of the neck-
line. Mrs. H. E. Bettle’s Peter Russell
ensemble combined caramel and black;
the slim-skirted, wing-sleeved coat was
lined with caramel velvet. Dark-red kid
shoes and bag contrasted the pewter-grey
taffeta ensemble worn by Mrs, W. W.
Killough. Mrs, F. W. Gillespie, wife of
the American Army Air Force
added to her black suit a beige felt hat
trimmed with jet-spangled lace and
ospreys. A pale-blue felt toque, jewel-
trimmed, was a jaunty auxiliary for Mrs.
A. E. Hotchkiss’s black Persian-lamb
coat.
Mrs. Carl Rauff’s black moire cock-
tail frock was worn with a jet cap
finished with fine veiling. Mrs. Fergus
McAdie’s frock was of black lace ; her
small black hat flew cocq feathers. Mrs.
J. W. Brophy’s brown frock had a small
beige hat for company. Mrs. J. S.
Disney’s close - fitting double - breasted
bottle-green coat was worn with a small
black felt hat. A halo of black cocq
feathers topped Mrs. F. Scherger’s dove-
grey broadcloth coat. Mrs. Frank Bladin
wore a black suit and small black hat. A
cluster of black ospreys trimmed the
* black hat Mrs. C. C. Nordern wore with
her beige coat. Mrs. Sam Pierce defied
the elements in dyed ermine ; a chou of
pink feathers added frivolity to her hat.
Mrs, R. G. Casey wore with her fur coat
one of the new jewelled caps.
Mrs. C. J. Flynn, who was chairman of
the decorations committee for the Star
Spangled Ball, hails from New Jersey.
She and her husband were stationed in
Sweden before they were transferred to
this country. Their son Ken leaves
for America, where he will do an
engineering course at Lehigh University.
When the American Women’s Auxiliary
to the Children’s Hospital staged their
Star Spangled Ball the vast hall of the
Exhibition Building was transformed into
a riot of blue-and-silver stars. An enor-
mous American flag covered the front of
the choir loft, and spaced around the
dance floor were Uncle Sam figures and
hats. The orchestra sat on a stand built
to represent a drum, set in the centre of
the hall. Every pillar was swathed in
stars and stripes, and hundreds of pen-
nants bearing the stars and stripes hung
from the balconies. The official table,
horseshoe in shape, was covered with a
white satin tablecloth. There were red,
white and blue candles, and iris, stock
and poinsettia carried out the same
color scheme. The official guests were
received by Mrs. S. J. Fletcher, in black
tulle and amber lace and a mandarin
coat of black satin embroidered in gold,
and Mrs. W. W. Killough, whose white
faille gown was strapless and worn with
a cherry-red stole. Lady Latham, presi-
dent of the hospital, was in the official
party with Mrs. Howard Barrett, whose
husband is the hospital’s secretary and
manager.
Mrs. Stephen Jurika, wife of the U.S.
Naval wore a gown of vieux-
rose satin, Mrs. F. Gillespie, wife of
Col. F. Gillespie, the U.S. Army Air-force
Attache, wore an otf-the-shoulder black
moire faille gown with powder-blue faille
outlining the top of the bodice. Mrs.
Ron Marriott’s gown of aqua.-blue moire
taffeta had a hem of silver lace and
matching lace finishing the off-the-
shoulder bodice. Mrs. D. J. Lampard
added a black velvet jacket to her
pleated black crepes. Mrs. Henry Den-
nett’s aqua-blue satin gown revealed one
bare shoulder and had a large bow on the
bodice. Mrs. Norman Carlyon was an-
other whose choice was aqua-blue satin.
Jill Daveron’s copper-toned brocade
jacket was worn with a skirt of brown
faille. Lillian Wightman was in black
velvet, Mrs. Mac Faulkiner’s gown was
of apple-green moire. Mrs. Charles
Austin’s laces were black Chantilly.
“Outpost Inn,” where hot soup and
oysters were served, was in the efficient
charge of Mesdames M. Picot and C, H.
Deem.
An emergency fuel stove enabled
Mrs. L. R. Buxton to serve a nice hot
luncheon to guests at her Armadale
home; this was to tell presswomen of
the forthcoming concerts that Joan
Hammond will give as a very practical
means of expressing her thanks to women
golfers who helped so much to send
her abroad. Proceeds of the concerts
will help send an Australian women’s
golf team to England next year. The.
day after Joan arrives in Melbourne she
will take part in the Victorian golf
championships at Huntingdale. While
here she will stay with Mrs. Clarence
Marriott, whose daughter Lola has been
abroad with Joan as personal representa-
tive. Melbourne concerts will be held
on August 5 and 26, and booking is now
open at Hartley’s Sports Depot. Mrs.
Buxton received her guests in an en-
semble of beige kasha wool and a small
feather-trimmed matching hat. Beverley
and Carolyn Buxton assisted their mother
entertain; Beverley’s grey-wool frock
had touches of white at the neckline,
whilst Carolyn wore a beige-wool frock.
Among the guests were Mona McLeod,
president of the V.L.G.U., Mrs. A. J.
Douglas, a vice-president, Mrs. Clarence
Marriott, Mrs. H. Praagst, Mrs, John
Reed and Beverley Taylor.
Premiere of “The Eagle Has Two
Heads” at the Princess was notable for
the many beautiful gowns in the big
audience, Sheila Helpmann carried a
silver-fox muff to match her jacket, worn
over deep-wine crepes. Mrs, Dare Holy-
man’s black gown had white ermine for
contrast. Elizabeth Cahill’s bouffant
gown was of red-and-blue-shot taffeta.
Madame Mario Vigano wore a striking
black cap, osprey-trimmed, with her
black Persian-lamb coat. An upstanding
collar of mink added distinction to Anne
Mclntyre’s full-length evening-coat of
parchment brocade. Mrs. Royden
Honeyman’s lime-green crepes were em-
broidered in jet-beads ; her long match-
ing gloves carried the same motif. Mrs.
John Heath’s black tulle gold-em-
broidered head-scarf was worn with an
emerald-green crepe gown trimmed with
gold sequins.
Mrs. H. C. Haworth contrasted her
rust-toned gown with a hip-length
emerald-green wool jacket embroidered
on the pockets with colored beads and
gold sequins. Pat Christie’s parchment
brocade gown had panels of glittering
pink and gold beads set into the bouf-
fant skirt. The dressing on stage was
no less lavish. For her first appearance
Shirley Davis, as lady-in-waiting to the
Queen, ,wore a modish gown of black
satin, Which had a wide skirt with a
bustle and an off-the-shoulder bodice.
Elaine Foster looked very queenly in a
gown of heavy white taffeta; the skirt
bouffant with a flowing train, the tight-
fitting bodice made with a low neckline
and short puff-sleeves. In another scene
Elaine wore a black riding-habit with
a tight-buttoned bodice and a long skirt.
Accent was on coats at Flemington for
Grand National Steeplechase Day. One
of the most attractive was that worn by
Pam Myer; of pale-mauve wool, it was
of the “tent” type; a Chartreuse felt
beret was a tasteful addendum. One
racegoer wound a Parma-violet jersey
scarf about her shoulders; her folded
turban was in Parma-violet jersey with
two grey pom-poms as a finish —these
went with a grey suit. Mrs. Eric Ross
added a black-and-white-check stole to
her grey suit; her hat was also of black-
and-white-check. Yellow checks in her
fawn suit and a vivid yellow hat made
Sydney visitor Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere
easily distinguishable. A little tartan
bonnet with a yellow feather mount was
worn by Mrs. lan Miller with her black
tailored frock. A pine-green corded-
velvet jacket-suit was worn by Nan
Hughes with a green hat. Olive Rosen-
thal’s tailored suit was mustard-yo#low.
Mrs. K. McCaughan had a spray of
wattle at the side of her fawn hat, and
on the lapel of her fawn camelhair coat;
yellow woollen socks added a little more
of the bright color.


BOOKS FOR BOYS AND GIRLS
CHILDREN'S BOOK WEEK; JULY llfh/16fh
THE SECRET FAMILY, by Esmee Rice Price 7/6 (post 5d.)
Two Exciting Books for Boys:
THE OPIUM SMUGGLERS, by lon L. Idriess.
A true story of our northern seas Price 7/6 (post 6d.)
THE SECRET OP THE TIDE RACE, by Ray Harris.
Price 7/6 (post 5d.)
MILLY-MOLLY-MANDY AGAIN, by J. L. Brisley. The last of
the Milly-Molly-Mandy series for Children. Price 6/3 (post 3d.)
PETER PAN IN KENSINGTON GARDENS, by J. M. Barrie.
Illustrated by Arthur Rackham Price 5/3 (post 5d.)
A BUNCH OF WILD FLOWERS, in colour, by Ida Rentonl
Outhwaite Price 10/6 (post lOd.)
Tree in THE TRAIL. The story of the Santa Fe Trail, by
Helling C. Holling. Beautifully illustrated. Price 12/3 (Post 6d.)
We invite you to call and inspect our
wide range of Books for Boys and Girls.
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LIMITED
Booksellers and Publishers
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. MA6511.
Missing Friend.
WOULD any person knowing the where-
abouts of WILLIAM HUGHIE WILKIN-
SON, otherwise known as HUGH WIL-
LIAM WILKINSON, whose last known
occupation was that of a shearer in
Queensland, please communicate with his
wife, ELVA GWENDOLINE WILKINSON,
or with S. W. TYNAN, Solicitor, Brisbane
Permanent Bank Building, 113-115 Queen
Street, Brisbane.
Public Notices.
I, MARIA MANESSI, of Italian nation-
ality, born ait Giarre, Province of Catania,
Italy, and resident 15 years in Australia,
now residing at 12 Griffith Street, Surry
Hills, N.S.W., intend to apply for natural-
isation under the Nationality and Oitizen-
ship Act, 1948.
I, MARIA GUISEPPA GENIAH
PAPALLO, of Italian nationality, born at
Martone, Reggio Calabria, Italy, and resi-
dent ll| years in Australia, now residing
at Waterloo Road, North Ryde, near Syd-
ney, New South Wales, intend to aipply
for naturalisation under the Nationality
and Citizenship Act, 1948.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO AUBREY JAMES EDE late of 124
Wigram Road Forest Lodge N.S.W. —
TAKE NOTICE that IRIS MAY EDE has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 406 of
1949 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court House King
Street Sydney by the 29th day of Sep-
tember 1949 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from MESSRS.
TRENCH WALTERS AND PINCHIN,
Solicitors, of Lismore, or their Sydney
Agents, MESSRS. CLAYTON UTZ AND
COMPANY, Solicitors, 136 Liverpool
Street, Sydney.—(t.s.) J. DOUGHAN,
Acting Registrar in Divorce.
THE SERVICE MAN
Another £45,000,000.
“Ek Dum”: Among the sur-
prises of the coal-strike period
is the announcement that the
Commonwealth Government has
decided, on the recommendation
of the Council of Defence, to
spend an extra £45,000,000 over
and above the £250,000,000 allo-
cated for the five years to end
in 1952.
Since about half the pro-
gramme is moribund it would
be difficult to understand the
situation if it were not clear that
the extra appropriation is not in-
tended to add to the protection
available to this country, but that
it is mainly owing to increased
costs.
Some of these are attributable
to increases in awards, some to
increases in the cost of materials
and a very large proportion to
“go-slow” of the type which has
been delaying the completion of
much-needed destroyers and
other works, naval and other-
wise.
Harassed taxpayers might well
ask, if the cost of the scheme
has increased to the extent of
nearly 40 per cent, of the actual
expenditure during the two years
of the programme which have
been completed, what will the
cumulative increase in costs over
five years be?
And what kind of increases
may be expected in respect of
such works as the Snowy River
scheme?
Outside the £41,000,000 which
is to go into increased costs —
seven times the annual amount
which Mr. E. J. Ward con-
“This is the latest model, sir—you fill it once a year”
demned as extravagant when it
was put forward to cover the
whole of Australia’s defence a
little over a decade ago—the
residuary £4,000,000 has been
earmarked for specific purposes,
including the resumption of
R.A.N. reserve training early
next year, and “provision of
new types of bombs, pyrotech-
nics, rocket projectiles and
small-arms ammunition for the
R.A.A.F.”
The weapon most needed by
the defence forces is a new Min-
ister for Defence.
Chiang Comes Back.
“Ek Dum”: After being “in
smoke” during most of the
Shanghai campaign, Chiang
Kai-shek has emerged to ask
the United States to help China
and thus “prevent another world
war.”
This was Chiang’s first state-
ment since January, and his
view of the situation is that if
the United States does not at
once give help the war will
spread all over China and in-
fect the rest of the globe. It
will spread in any case if the
Communists have the resources.
There was no explanation as
to why the ex- —or perhaps not
“ex” President has been dumb
for nearly six months during a
period of severe crisis ' and de-
feat, and equally none as to why
he should have come out of his
shell at this particular moment.
Possibly the reason lies in the
fact that the Nationalists rea-
lise that the Shanghai offensive
may have become a spent force
which may not be re-activised
until September, if then, and
that he now feels that he has
time to play with.
He will be very lucky if he
gets American help. The stage
has been reached at which con-
tinental China matters very little
to the United States so long as
it is isolated from world poli-
tics and so long as Britain holds
Malaya and Hong Kong and
Japan is under occupation.
Japan, from a strategic point
of view, especially with bases
existing in Malaya and the
Philippines, is worth all the rest
of the Far East put together,
particularly in view of its geo-
graphical relationship to the
warm-waiter ports of Russian
Manchuria, such as Vladivostok,
and to those parts of Siberia
through which Russia would
have to pass its communica-
tion lines in making an aerial
attack on North America.
Those lines under present cir-
cumstances might be compared
to a railway which is being
used for campaigning purposes
and which has a series of enemy
bases a few miles off its course
at points which easily command
the most important strategical
portion of it —the parts furthest
away from the main objective.
Communist activity, bent on
disrupting Japan’s transport and
industry, is obviously connected
with China and Russian strategy.
The situation in Hong Kong
may not be perfect, but time is
on the side of the defenders,
and every week sees the place
stronger.
Last week in Tokyo Admiral
Sir Patrick Brind, who com-
mands the Far Eastern Royal
Naval Squadron and who might
easily be described as a tower
of strength, since he is nearer
6ft. 6in. than 6ft. 4in. high, de-
clared that the Hong Kong of
1949 was a cat of a very differ-
ent color from the Hong Kong
of 1941, in view of the tremen-
dous advantages accruing from
command of the sea and air.
The command of the sea is
absolute, and, unless the Com-
munists can make a better
showing than they have done, so
is the command of the air.
To add to existing strength the
carrier Triumph is on the way to
Hong Kong, and military
strength has increased beyond
minimum needs.
Without sea or thorough air
backing attack on Hong Kong
from the mainland by standard
methods would be difficult, but
in Asiatic warfare there is always
the enigmatic element of numbers
to be dealt with, and the possi-
bility of attack by hordes of
small boats by night from
various directions has to be re-
garded—that is, if precautions
have not been taken against their
assembly.
Probably the strongest ele-
ment in the defence of Hong
Kong is the invaders’ knowledge
that the barbarous British do
not understand the politer forms
of Chinese warfare and that they
are as likely as not to kill
Chinese with firearms on a dev-
astating scale instead of merely
destroying them with communi-
ques. And that method of carry-
ing on hostilities is most uncom-
fortable for those on whom it is
practised.
Troops are arriving at intervals
from England, the last 1500 in
the Dilwara on July 7. They in-
cluded the Third Royal Tank
Regiment, the 27th Anti-aircraft
Regiment and the 119th Light
Anti-aircraft Searchlight Battery.
Three more troopships are ex-
pected within the next couple of
weeks, and the men in these
should bring the 10,000-odd
troops at present in the colony
to about 15,000.
At the week-end Chiang flew
to the Philippines for discussion
there of the “Pacific situation.”
A Terrorist Passes.
“Ek Dum”: The death of
Dmitrov may not radically
change the position in Eastern
Europe, but it will not radically
make it easier, and there is room
for speculation as to who will
take his place.
Dmitrov was a bloodthirsty
ruffian who fled Bulgaria in
1923 with his friend Kolarov —
the latter the man who accepted
the Australian Communist party
into the Comintern and who
afterwards organised, with his
friends, the blowing-up of the
Sofia Cathedral with all its con-
gregation during a memorial
service in April, 1925.
Dmitrov organised the trans-
port and other workers in Ger-
many, and became a world figure
after Hitler’s advent to power in
Germany when he was accused
of attempting to burn down the
Reichstag building just inside the
Brandenburg Gate in the heart
of Berlin, along with some other
persons who seemed, from their
appearance and behavior, to be
sub-normal or weakminded.
Dmitrov was acquitted, ac-
cording to the Communist ver-
sion, by virtue of a paralysing
“Lucky you didn't fracture your nose.”
burst of eloquence which proved
that even Goring was susceptible
to oratory.
The plain fact probably is
that the fellow was exchanged
with Russia for some concession,
such as the right to continue to
train German officers on Rus-
sian soil. He was, in appro-
priate American parlance, “too
hot to handle.”
In 1935, when the last con-
ference of the Comintern was
held, he was there in the role of
general secretary and exponent
of the Trojan-horse tactic, and
of the “campaign against Fas-
cism and war,” which was actu-
ally designed to produce war be-
tween Western nations and to
turn it into civil war for the
furtherance of the world revo-
lution. His speeches on that oc-
casion became a standard text-
book for the Australian and
other Communist parties.
In October, 1939, he became
Russia’s representative in the
part of Poland which Moscow
appropriated, and wrote the
pamphlet “War and the Work-
ing Class” which was published
hastily in Australia when the
Communists changed their line
after the little Baltic States had
been grabbed by agreement with
Hitler. This pamphlet urged the
workers of Australia to sabo-
tage the war in the interests of
Russo-German policy.
After the war Dmitrov be-
came the satellite Premier of
Bulgaria, and his reign has been
marked by diabolical “judicial”
murders and by the savage sup-
pression of all normal forms of
liberty. Crimes like the de-
struction of his Constitutionalist
opponent, Nicholas Petkov, were
on his head when he suddenly
found it necessary to go to
Moscow for medical treatment
and there perished.
He is the second of the sig-
natories to the rescript dissolv-
ing the Comintern to be struck
down by disease at a fairly early
age, the other one being
Zhdanov, who was wiped out
by a sudden malady last year.
His decease coincided with an
easing-up of the Russian pres-
sure throughout the world, a
policy which is scarcely born of
either a new-developed good-
will towards the Western
Powers or of defeat.
What is happening, probably,
is that the Kremlin realises that
the most useful tactic for de-
stroying Western defences would
be to lull the peoples of the
West into a feeling of false
security which would induce
them to slacken in the building
of their post-war forces and
allow the Atlantic Pact to run
to seed.
Lenin, elucidating Communist
tactics, makes it clear that there
are periods of ebb and flow, of
advance and retreat in the pro-
gress towards world revolution.
At present all that is happening
is that Communism is passing
through an ebb period.
It is ebbing so far in Aus-
tralia that it even is showing
tolerance towards the White
Australia policy, which, for
nearly 30 years, it has professed
to regard as a horrible and
Chauvinistic weapon -of the
capitalists and as a pretext to
be used to fan the hatred of
Asiatics against the British Corn-
monwealth and particularly
against the white parts of it.
Soekarno Goes
"Home."
“Ek Dum”; Soekarno is, out
of internment and back in his
republican capital at Jokjakarta,
which has been abandoned by
the Dutch.
He was taken from Banka
Island, where he had been exiled
for six months, by one of Dr.
Evatt’s United Nations aircraft,
and he was met on the Jokja-
karta airfield by a huddle of
U.N. observers, by the local sul-
tan and by his “Ministers.”
His speech on arrival was in
the jargon of Moscow, if the
brief summary received can be
credited—“unity” and “inter-
nationalism” were its keynotes.
But he expressed especial thanks
to U.N.0., and well he might.
As a preserver of open sores
and sources of international
trouble Dr. Eyatt’s rickety Par-
liament is without parallel in
modern history.
This is the third time Dr.
Soekarno and his friends have
begun the task of building the
“nation” which doesn’t exist ex-
cept as a figment of the
imagination of themselves and
of Canberra.
They are without resources.
Their influence, if any, at the
moment is confined to Jokja-
karta and to a few bandit and
terrorist lairs. They have had
records of Japanese collabora-
tion behind them and they have
little backing outside Indonesia
save for Dr. Evatt and the
Communist unions of Australia,
which care nothing for them
save as a weapon for discom-
fiting the white races.


FONDE
*
EM 14
EN 1724
REMY MARTIN
• V.S.O.P. COGNAC BRANDY
Of rare age and vintage quality seldom before, if ever,
imported into Australia. Obtainable at most retailers.
BOTTLES, 36/9 HALF BOTTLES, 18/9
MINIATURES, 2/3
i
/
r
st V»'
\&1
O• • •
Whether yon are thinking
of buying a washer——or practic-
ally any major domestic appliance
for that matter —you must know before-
hand what is UNDERNEATH the porcelain
enamel. If you receive the assurance that the appliance is
built with COMROL STEEL . . . you can buy
-< S A
M P ►
/n
with absolute confidence. An ap-
pliance constructed from COMROL
Sheet will stand up to everything
the years will bring. It’s the steel
that gives stamina.
STEEL SHEETS FOR INDUSTRY
COMMONWEALTH ROLLING
MILLS PTY. LTD.
Head Office and Work*:
Port Kembla, N.S.W.
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LIMITED—GENERAL SALES AGENTS.
SYDNEY: 33 Macquarie Place. MELBOURNE: 70-84 Clarendon Street, South
Melbourne. ADELAIDE: 13 Grenfell Street. BRISBANE: 307-311 Queen
Street. FREMANTLE: Corner of Short and Pakenham Streets. WELLINGTON.
H.Z.; John Lysaghf's Bristol Works Limited
c/mend //..
“Rolls” has the answer to every
lighter need 5 Year Guarantee
★ Fully Automatic ★ Wind Proof
Carries Spare Flint Everlasting
Glass Wick ★ Fluid lasts Longer,--
mechanism seals against evaporation
★ Chromium model, 57/6 r-> also in
rhodium and gold.
"Rolls' Flints, 6d. packet.
SUNDRY SHOWS
A sudden outbreak of art
shows in Melbourne after a
comparative calm presents an
extraordinarily variegated ap-
pearance. Percy Watson,
hitherto classed among the
orthodox academic, has gone
gay at the Melbourne Book
Club Gallery in the modern
manner. How completely deter-
mined he is by fashion is shown
by the fact that the observer can
stand in the middle of the room
and say “There’s Picasso” or
“There’s Braque” or some other
exponent of old-fashioned cults.
The only thing he won’t see is
any sign of Nature. The same
applies to the display of ti-tree
sculpture by Lorraine Whiting
at Kozminsky’s. The sculptress
is a 22-year-old technical-school
student who has observed that
chunks of Australian timber
often convey a suggestion of
something human or have a
natural variety that is quite
charming. Her manipulations
haven’t improved the quality of
the suggestion, and the variety
has been destroyed by what
looks like the application of a
monotonous French polish.
At George’s Gallery, Mel-
bourne, the conventional por-
traits of Edward Heffernan hang
cheek-by-jowl with the distor-
tions and abstractions of Alan
Warren. Mr. Warren is trying
to be flat and Mr. Heffernan
isn’t, but the only difference be-
tween them is in their intentions.
Of more solid worth is the
joint exhibition by A. D. and
Amalie Colquhoun at the
Athenaeum. Both were pupils
of Max Meldrum, both paint
from much the same viewpoint
and both succeed most in their
landscapes. A. D. Colquhoun’s
“Luss Village,” painted in Scot-
land, and his “Misty Seashore,”
painted in Australia, have a
characteristic that is rarely seen
in a “modern.” As they are de-
rived from Nature, you can tell
they were painted in different
countries, Australian moderiiist
landscapes, being generally de-
rived from somebody else’s
pictures, all look as if they had
been painted in Paris.
The same may be said of
Mary McLeish, a Colquhoun
pupil, who is showing a vigor-
ous collection of still-life, land-
scape and figures at Tye’s. If
anything, there is more light in
her pictures;. She tends more
to draw with the brush than
paint an impression, and all she
needs is to refine her observa-
tion without losing her fresh-
ness. A half-nude, “Fruitful
Vine,” is one of the most effec-
tive of her figure-studies.
* * * *
No paintings out of the Water-
color Exhibition at Sydney Edu-
cation Department Galleries
were bought by the N. S. Wales
National Gallery or by the
National Galleries of other
capitals. The only masterpiece
on show, Norman Lindsay’s
“Hircus Nocturnus,” one of the
most vigorous and dramatic
watercolors he has ever painted,
is catalogued as not for sale;
and the exhibition as a whole is
not up to its usual standard. If
the N.S.W. Trustees took the
view that it would be improper
to communicate with Norman
Lindsay and if their policy is to
buy only masterpieces their
failure to support the exhibition
is so far understandable. But
when has the Gallery ever had
such a policy, or thought it
desirable? Were there no works
here as good as the stuff the
director, Mr. Hal Missingham,
has been buying from one-man
shows to make the Recent Ac-
quisitions court a nightmare and
a nursery?
Pictures the Gallery might
well have bought, if they had
given their normal support to
the Watercolor Institute, could
be chosen from G, K. Town-
shend’s “After Rain” (a tour-de-
force of technique), Mary Ed-
wards’s “The Banksia,” Frank
McNamara’s “Colonial Home-
stead,” Dora Jarret’s “The Wind
and the Rain” (a fleeting
moment of poetry). Max Rag-
less’s “The River, Port Fairy,”
Margaret Coen’s “Flowers of
Storm” and Ronald Steuart’s
“Composition with Seashells.”
All these are excellent water-
colors ; at least up to the
standard of the Gallery’s large
purchase of English watercolors
a year or two ago; up to the
standard of previous Gallery
selections from the Watercolor
Exihibition and far better than
most of the Recent Acquisitions.
If the Watercolor Institute
wishes to return to the forceful
impact it always made in previ-
ous years it should (a) reduce
the amount of obvious rubbish,
( b) hang each member’s contri-
butions in a panel again, for
mixed exhibitions always tend
to kill each man’s distinctive
quality, and (c) hunt up more
watercolorists from other States.
* * * *
“With whom,” wrote Beet-
hoven early in his career with
sublime self-assurance of his
creative gifts, “need I be afraid
of measuring my strength?”
Nevertheless he was to proceed
cautiously with each new form
he tackled, and with none more
so than the piano concerto. The
first two of his five are almost
indistinguishable in the main
from a Mozart concerto in their
strjpt classicism, grace of style
and the lucidity of their develop-
ment, and it was these charac-
teristics which Eunice Gardiner
emphasised in her playing of the
Concerto No. 2, Op. 19, with
the Sydney Symphony Orchestra
under Eugene Goossens. The
pianist also fully appreciated that
the left-hand work calls for a
heavier, more masculine voice
than Mozart’s —a voice that
presages the giant structures
which were to rise in the later
concertos. It was an'excellent
performance, by both orchestra
and soloist. More good work
by the orchestra went into
Schubert’s Eighth Symphony
(“The Unfinished”). From the
brooding mystery of the intro-
duction by the bass strings in
octaves to the gentle spirit of
resignation with which the work
ends after the series of key
modulations, it was given polish
and a well-sustained vitality.
The second half of the pro-
gramme consisted of modern
works. The Australian Robert
Hughes was represented by his
“Festival Overture,” an attractive
piece, ingenious in its orchestra-
tion, though at times over-
heavy in the brass section.
Ibert’s impressions of three
Mediterranean harbors which
he incorporates into his “Les
Escales” have rich orchestral
color ; the woodwind section did
particularly fine work here, the
plaintive voice of the oboe in the
Oriental middle movement and
the languid flute in the Palermo
section being outstanding. Ben-
jamin Britten’s “Mont Juic,”
written in collaboration with
Lennox Berkeley, fell pleasantly
on the ear—possibly because
it is based on Catalonian
folk-dances, and owes more to
the original tunes than to the
arrangement. The diversified
second half was topped off with
Enesco’s “Rumanian Rhapsody
No. 1”; this melodious little
work, steeped in the folk-music
of Central Europe, was invested
with a lilting quality which owed
much to the effortless sweep of
the upper strings.
* * ♦ *
Melbourne Tivoli took two
days off to prepare itself for
Stanley Holloway and provided
that gentleman with the most
elaborate prelude it has ever
accorded a visiting comedian.
It included Ben Wrigley, a
funny man with no joints and
an insane form of humor that
suggested a surrealist painting,
Eileen O’Dare, whose dancing
justified the adjective “amaz-
ing,” Swiss balancing contor-
tionists who also earned it and
Roily Rolls, who subjugated a
packed house with a perform-
ance at the piano which might
be described as Aleksandr
Helmann inverted. A Highland
Holiday, complete with pipers
and Tivoli lovelies disguised in
kilts and tartans belonging to a
clan not yet discovered, pro-
vided one of the most rapturous
spectacles the management has
yet presented. Coming after all
this the English comedian sur-
prisingly failed to come up to
expectations. A big man witji
a stock Lancashire accent who
recited monologues, some of
them famous, he got the same
reception, in kind if not in de-
gree, that Little Tich did when
he once put in an t appearance
at the same theatre. Local
comedians had rehashed Tich’s
stuff so often that his hearers
thought he was retailing chest-
nuts.
* * * *
“Right You Are (If You
Think So),” Pirandello’s drama-
tisation of a philosophical prob-
lem, was the subject for discus-
sion in the latest production of
the University Conservatorium
Dramatic School at the Union
Theatre, Melbourne. Signora
Frola believes that her son-in-
law Ponza is bluffing that her
daughter is dead and that he
has remarried; she thinks that
Signora Ponza is still living and
that she is being kept from her,
but Ponza says she is the victim
of an hallucination. Com-
mendatore Agazzi, who is
ostensibly Pirandello, invites the
assembled company to make a
judgment, and shows how im-
possible it is to do so. The
data are the same in each case,
but the relevant parties come to
contrary opinions about it. A
cataclysm destroys the town
and all the official data,
so the issue cannot be de-
cided by an appeal to fact.
It is an interesting problem,
and Pirandello has the knack of
making it extremely living. The
play was not so difficult of
presentation as might have been
expected. Norman Smith as the
commendatore, Judith Stump as
the distracted mother and Keith
Coppard as the husband were as
good as any.
* * * ♦
“The Old Maid” will, appro-
priately, follow “The Male
Animal” at the Independent
Theatre, North Sydney, on June
21. June Cornell, Diana Perry-
man and Leigh O’Malley are in
the main roles—O’Malley, who
played the role of the moronic,
sub-human steward in “Love
Me, Sailor,” and then leaped to
the other extreme as an almost
regal cardinal in “Father
Malachy’s Miracle,” plays the
doctor in “The Old Maid.”
* * * *
“D.”: Many theatrical
families trace their ancestry
back to acrobats, dancers and
strolling players of a couple of
centuries ago, an historical pat-
tern which seems to be repeating
itself with the Colleano family
(B. 8/6/’49), of which some
members are appearing at
Sydney Tiv. —or would be if the
coal strike hadn’t forced that
theatre to close temporarily. A
year after the Colleanos (11 of
them) left Australia in 1922
Bonar Colleano, Jr., was born
in New York. He made his
first appearance in the cause of
public entertainment as an infant
with Ringling Bros. Circus in
San Francisco, appeared in
vaudeville at the New York
Palace in 1929, and at the
London Palladium in 1933. He
first made the regular stage in
1943, played Sergeant Berth in
“A Bell for Adano” in 1945,
and broke into films in 1945 in
“The Way to the Stars,”
* * * *
A survey of the best that
Sydney film-houses can offer in-
dicates that Mr. Chifley could
save a few dollars without caus-
ing any noticeable gap in the
city’s entertainment. With the
exception of “Johnny Belinda”
(Sydney Regent) with Jane
Wyman’s remarkable perform-
ance as a deaf mute ; “Spring
in Park Lane,” an English trifle
which has had a long run at the
Esquire; and “Fallen Idol,” a
new English film at the Embassy
with Ralph Richardson and
Michele Morgan, the films offer-
ing to Sydney audiences at the
moment are on an emotional
and intellectual par with the
daily papers’ “comic - strips.”
Even the Variety, which has
been showing some excellent
continental films, seems to have
reverted to second-release Holly-
wood jobs. Shaw has been
credited with saying that films
would, eventually, do everything
the stage can do and do it better
—or words to that effect. Pos-
sibly he has since changed his
mind; at any rate, on current
evidence submitted by U.S.-
English studios, the screen’s
chances of ever catching up with
the stage never looked worse.


STRAIGHT FROM SCOTIANS)
m VACUUM TINS
Four Square reaches you factory-fresh, in all its superb
flavour. Blended with true Scottish skill from mature
vintage leaf, Four Square is very cool and slow-burning—
Scottish tobacco at its very best. In 2 oz. vacuum tins.
For the Pipe Smoker
A choice of six blends.
Virginias, Mixtures, Ripe
Brown, Curlies. ,
For the Cigarette Smoker
Matured Virginia Fine Cut
(Red Squares) or Curlies Fine
Cut (Purple Squares).
FOUR SQUARE
TOBACCOS
CHOfCe Of SfX 8 CBN PS
r
_ '
8ro«» into dew « a ’
ro uea »” a “ aw' s
>' („r the P«"=-
coioptete tte»a.
"HANDY HINTS
FOR THE FARM"
Price 1/- from Newsagents, ot
1/2J posted from Bulletin Office,
252 George Street, Sydney.
ftyu
MEMORISE
WITH EASE
Pass Examinations.
Speak Without Notes.
Grip Lodge Ritual.
Send stamp for booklet.
Rev. W. Rowlands
12 Younger Grove,
Caulfield, S.E. 8, Vic.
Technical Data
HOW TO BUILD MODERN TANKS
HfEBS
BWWWWW*
J * tph; ‘i T f l jjjy T-DT-rilii.
...
**jn*rw
i
1 PjHiwmirniriiiwiHini" "i »*> -
MUHi t if)i i • ••
—^^nw^m^ssmmtr-
~~~*~*mmow***. ss***'
-*•> ”*
ii<W...,i0..-r.! ' ' ’ *
mwmmi
<**#**»&**
********
/
1
«**'
*'° f '
m QifiP&r rr*~* '
KBZftofnt <■** \
£^Xs£)
|^s^^#r«*w-o*-- ■*-
, feSI?
-rtmrrnrfff^
ajajaasssiSMSi* 4
mwijiii (rm
*W«=t. •***
«5j
f®au / .
r
o
There is a
YSAGHT
h
/
steel sheet for every building need
When conditions permit, do you plan to erect modern
tanks and tankstands on your farm? Then ask the
SERVICE DEPT, of John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., 33
Macquarie Place, Sydney, for data sheets and fujl infor-
mation on modern tank construction. Part of a compre-
hensive technical advisory service that is available to
farmers and builders using the company's products, it is
gladly placed at your disposal with the compliments of
the Lysaght organisation.
-
John Lysaght (Australia) Ply. Ltd.
Sydney • Melbourne • Brisbane
Adelaide . Fremantle
fytu
A BRANDY
famous since 1858—
Tolley’s is a privilege
passed down through
generations—
<n
'A
ii
1\
u
mellowed to perfection—
magnificent to the last drop!
•■enzrnmnrirw
TOLLEY’S
SPECIAL 6S HOSPITAL
BRANDY
FAMOUS FOR 90 YEARS
HEX SOUTH WALES DISTRIBUTORS. TOOTH I CO., HUITEf
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Middle-aged man, musical, doing
six-months trip Britain, early 1950,
like to hear from another, congenial,
view joint programme.—4s62.
Copy of words and music of the
song “I Love a Lassie.”—466l.
Bulletin staff man seeks full board
with private family, North Shore
(Sydney) line or harbor suburb. —
4660.
To buy copy of The Home Work-
shop, published by Odhams Press,
L0nd0n.—4663.
To exchange for suitable book
copy of Fowler’s Modern English
Usage. —4664.
Information Sought.
(1) How long after spawning can
the first crop of mushrooms be ex-
pected? (2) Average yield in pounds
per sq. ft. ? (3) Can the compost be
used indefinitely?
(1) About six to eight weeks. (2)
If properly cared for, abput Iflb.
per sq. ft. (cropping continues for
three to six months). (3) The compost
is spent for mushroom production
after cropping is ended, but is still
a good soil amendment.
* * * *
Description of the tree-tomato,
how is it cultivated, and where can
seeds be obtained in Sydney?
The tree-tomato, Cyphomandra
betacea S. Solanacece. is an evergreen,
semi-wooded shrub or small tree, a
native of Peru. The egg-shaped and
smooth-skinned fruit, produced in
great abundance in hanging clusters
towards the ends-of young shoots,
is in season almost throughout the
year. At first greenish purple, it
changes in ripening to reddish yellow.
In the purple-fruited variety the fruit
becomes deep purple with red. The
sub-acid, succulent fruits are refresh-
ing and agreeable when eaten raw,,
but their general use is for stewing;
they may also be made into jam.
The tree is a quick grower, and com-
mences to bear when If to 2 years
old, continuing production for five or
six years. Trees thrive best on deep
and well-manured soil, and are propa-
gated by seed or cuttings. The seed
is raised in seed-boxes or seed-beds
in a manner similar to tomatoes; the
young seedlings may be planted-out
in the permanent positions as soon
as danger from frost injury is past.
Seed of the tree-tomato may be ob-
tained from Arthur Yates and Co.,
Box 2707 C, G.P.0., or Anderson and
Co., Box 160888, G.P.O.—both
Sydney.
♦ * * *
Reason and cure for the appearance
of dampness on a concrete floor at
periods of high atmospheric hu-
midity? Would a waterproof com-
pound applied to the surface be
effective ?
It is possible that there is some
deliquescent salt incorporated 'in the
concrete of the floor. This may be
due to the use of salt-sand, or to the
use of some admixture for water-
proofing or as an accelerator in the
concrete at the time it was mixed.
It is likely, however, that the moisture
is actually due to ground moisture.
It is not at all uncommon for
moisture from this source to appear
only at times of high atmospheric
humidity. Whatever the cause, simple
surface treatment of the existing
floor slab with a waterproofing com-
pound is unlikely to be an effective
cure. Membrane treatments of this
type, while they may be effective for
a limited period, will generally fail,
owing to water-vapor pressure, at
some later date. The only certain
cure —which would be effective what-
ever the cause of the trouble —con-
sists of removing the present concrete
paving, laying a damp-proof course
of bituminous felt such as “Mal-
thoid,” “Ormonoid” or “Bituminoid,”
well lapped at the joints, and with
the joints sealed with bitumen. The
concrete paving should then be re-
newed over this dampeourse, taking
care to use clean metal or gravel
and sand for this purpose.
* * * *
(1) What Australian championships
did Jack Green win? (2) From
whom did he win them, and who
won them from him ?
(1) First flyweight champion of
Australia, 1916; bantamweight, 1920;
featherweight,. 1920. (2) George
Mendies defeated him for the fly-
weight title in 1917. He won the
bantamweight championship from
Vince Blackburn, but relinquished it
by reason of outgrowing the division.
He outpointed Sid Godfrey for the
featherweight championship, and lost
it to Bert Spargo the following year.
Brief Answers.
H.M.H.: Five to 10 minutes usually
judged to be long enough, but time
depends on the age of the prawns;
large, old ones will always be tough,
and should be sorted out. Experi-
ment with time, and withhold salt
until they are cooked, when it may
be sprinkled over the prawns, which
are then well shaken in their con-
tainer.... D: McD.: Figures relating
to the total expenditure on vermin
destruction in Australia are not avail-
able from official sources A.C.:
J. Marks and Sons, 52 Russell-street,
and Davis Bros., 236 Elizabeth-
street —both of Melbourne —may be
interested in otter, marmot and
leopard skins, and Ferris and Hawes,
26 Kippax-street, Sydney, may be
interested in snake and crocodile skins,
. ...M.T.: Encyclopedia for Austra-
lian Gardens (13s. 6d.), obtainable
from Angus and Robertson, Sydney.
. . 5 .F.8.: The Albury Art Prize was
won in 1947 by Charles Bush and in
1948 by Nbd Counihan E.W.K.r
Supplies of smoked mullet-roes may
be obtained from S. Fernandez,
Cambridge-lane, Paddington (N.S.W.).
... .KJP.: No reliable record is
known of the maximum size reached
by the Murray Cod, although it is
known that it grows to a weight of
over 1001 b. This Is by no means the
world’s largest freshwater fish; the
sturgeon, for instance, grows to a
weight of 600 or 7001 b G.L.: A
10 p.c. royalty on the retail price
of the article would appear to be a
fair arrangement... .F.S.: In naviga-
tion “easting” means an approach
to an easterly direction, or a shift-
ing or veering eastwards... .E.S. i
Procedure for claiming payment is
the same in both cases. It is not
necessary to claim immediately after
publication.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the
MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS, should be
addressed to the Editor.
E. 8.: Don’t like the swaggie any
better than when he previously came
in W.S.: Boarding-house sketch
has its moments, but not enough of
them A.P.D.: “I have many other
stories like the enclosed. How can I
get them published in book form?”
Buy a publishing business of your
own L.D.: “I could supply you
with other stories on these lines.”
Now, now, no threats,.. .A.J.C.:
Not interested in the “popular host
of the Golden Gully pub,” who
“died as he lived —by the bottle”
Bellerive: Would like to hear more
about the old boy:—
. ...R.F.: Doubt if any s.p. bookie
would fall for that old stunt
D.D.: Another swaggie camped in
the haunted hut... .J.M.F.: The
least true of this week’s bunch
M.R.V.: Sundial-buying cockies are
now out of date.... J.A.: No new
angle on the old worm-turning
theme... .K.McD.: Cracks up long
before the end N.G.: You can’t
wish the body on to us A.G.H.;
Doubt if you could unload that early
Roman story anywhere in Australia.
J.M.: Dubious subject, crudely
handled... .C.S.Y.: “Alf Toon’s
Luck” is out... .A.C.T.; “Release”
released H.G.T.: Too much and
tod late R.N.: Chess story
checkmated by broadcast perform-
ance E.M.P.; Vegetable story a
bit corny D.C.P.: Too much
tremolo in “Violin Concerto”
K.O’D.: Not enough spirit in “Cool
Waters” R.G.McD.: As fiction it
lacks imagination; as truth, confirma-
tion A.C.: “Crystal Clear” seemed
anything but P.H.: “Sandals-
Bespoke” needs soling and heeling.
R.J.L.: Even if gas-pipe murder
weren’t another yawn, we’d still ob-
ject to your colorless sleuth.... H.F.:
Whatever the dog story was about,
we don’t wan’t it....L.H.: No in-
terest in the old gentleman who lost
interest in life.
Long years he’d sailed
The wide ocean blue,
A hardy old captain
Of ripe eighty-two.
One of the skippers
Of the sailing ships,
A veteran bold of
Wild outbound trips.
Storms and buffetings
During voyages afar,
Were vividly recalled
By the grand old tar.


Special
GEM
RAZOR
WITH
Double Life
GEM Blades
Obtainable Everywhere ,
COMPLETE
/
3
WITH
BLADES
PLASTIC
IN
NEAT
CASE
,* v £oc* ,
s °Japo** I
a
IT'S THE WEIGHT BEHIND THE EDGE THAT
GIVES SMOOTHER, EASIER SHAVES
‘THIS
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
JACKSON & 0
SYDNEY
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest ieatures
ct high-priced imported
machines at only a trac-
tion ol their cost. The
■■National" Rotary DupU.
cator will reproduce
Typing, Writing. Plane.
Music, etc.
rely In Australia by
’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
SYDNEY W. C. Penfold & Co. Ply. Ltd.
MELBOURNE . Norman Bros. Ply Ltd.
ADELAIDE - Vardoo & Sons Ltd
PERTH . Docket Book Co. (Au&t.)
Get Winter Warmth with . . .
MORRIS “CENTRAL” RADIATORS
Economical, Mobile, Central Heating
The Morris All-British “Central” Radiators give the comfort of
“Central Heating” without heavy installation costs. They’re mobile,
too. Being water filled, they do not draw any moisture from the
air. For the town and city, there is the electric Morris
which can be used as a radiator or direct ray fire or both. This
radiator is illustrated at right. Shown at left is the oil radiator,
ideal for heating houses in the country where no electricity or gas
is laid on, and is operated by an “ODOURLESS precision blue
flame kerosene burner.
r
Hi
m
All Morris “Central” Radi-
ator’s are mounted on ball-
bearing castors and can be
wheeled from room to room
with ease and perfect safety.
Manufacturers and Patentees —Morris Heating Appliances Ltd.,
5 Netherton Grove, London, S.W. 10.
Trade inquiries invited. Stocks available in Sydney or Melbourne.
Sole Agent:
L. D. BESTON
387 KENT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone: M 3526. _ x Cables: “Beston,” Sydney.
Melbourne Office: 3rd Floor, 34 Queen Street. 'Phone: MB 1351.
Victorian Stockists : Tasmanian Stockists:
William L. Buckland Pty., Ltd., William L. Buckland Pty., Ltd.,
139-141 Franklin Street. 38 Charles Street', LAUNCESTON, and
' MELBOURNE. Tel. FJ 6644. 57 Liverpool Street, HOBART.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Dr. Johnson we think it was who
said: “Youth and indiscretion are
ill-wed.” So, too, are the
scramble and £lO,OOO prizemoney of
the Doomben sprint—particularly in
the light of the comparatively poor
general standard of prizemoney in
Brisbane. With luck playing such a
great part—luck in the barrier-draw
and in the running—the race cannot
prove anything; can certainly
nothing worth labelling with a
£lO,OOO tag. -Ungar is a very good
colt and Lucky Ring another, while
Proud Monash is a better-than-useful
sprinter; but it would be rash indeed
to take it from this year’s result that
Ungar was the best horse in the field;
or Lucky Ring the next best; or
Proud Monash the next. In Australia
there are run, or have been this
season, four races carrying £lO,OOO
prizemoney; the others are the Mel-
bourne Cup, the Sydney Cup and
the A.J.C. Derby. Admittedly, poorish
horses have sometimes won each of
these and some good horses been
beaten in them; but, while the win-
ning of a Melbourne Cup, or a
Derby, or, to a slightly lesser extent,
a Sydney Cup, will always enhance
a horse’s stud value, it is unlikely
that any studmaster or prospective
yearling-buyer will ever be similarly
impressed by a horse’s having won
a £lO,OOO free-for-all.
Queensland owners and trainers
must take a particularly poor view
of these oversize purses for a few big
races when the general standard of
prizemoney is so comparatively low.
Over the two days of the Doomben
meeting which concluded on Satur-
day, 14 races were run. The main
double of Ten Thousand and Doom-
ben Cup carried £15,000 prizemoney;
placegetters in the other dozen races
whacked-up £5175. In only two of
these minor events did the winner’s
cut exceed the £5OO won by Duke
Paul for running fourth in the Ten
Thousand.
Saturday’s Doomben Cup brought
a change of luck to owner-trainer
K. D. Godby, for whom the Mid-
stream four-year-old Rio Fe collected
the prime cut of the big prize. Rid-
den by G. Moore, Rio Fe finished
like the proverbial bolt from the blue
to win by a half-length from Battle
Abbey and the imported horse One
Up. Rio Fe clocked to equal
Dark Marne’s course record for the
journey of 11 furlongs less 22yds.
Chatspa started favorite for the Cup,
but thoroughly disappointed, as he
has done more than once in the past
when well fancied. Contributing
further to what must have been an
expensive meeting for Melbourne
owner O. R. Porter, his other Doom-
ben representative, Denhoti, was
solidly backed for the Flying, only to
be beaten by the local three-year-old
St. Conel. Denhoti seemed poorly
ridden.
* * * *
Undeterred by the fact that only
two horses had previously brought off
the double of Grand National Hurdle
and Steeple (and mighty jumpers they
were, in Redleap and Mosstrooper),
the jumping enthusiasts sent Chatsol
out favorite for Saturday’s National
Steeple at Flemington. Although he
had schooled well twice during the
week, the favorite seemed, on Satur-
day, to find the big fences completely
beyond him; he never threatened
danger. Chatsol was in trouble at
the first fence and at most of the
remainder. Giving just as brilliantly
effortless a display as Chatsol had
done in winning the Hurdle, David
Star won the Steeple very comfortably
from Shot By and Briar.
It was a splendid performance on
the part of David Star, who was
ridden by that old master of the
jumping game Laurie Meenan. Con-
ceding other runners a stone and
upward in the weights, the winner
carried 11.10 —highest weight carried
to victory in a Grand National since
Redditch scored with 12.3 in 1933.
David Star cut out the gruelling trip
in the excellent time of 6.4£. Realis-
ing that he was riding a grand jumper
who needed no nursing, Meenan took
him to the front a mile and a half
from home, and at the finish he
had three lengths to spare from his
fellow South Australian Shot By.
David Star is an aged gelding (rising
10) by Glideaway from Accuracy.
David Star was a well-backed
second favorite; Sir Nolle (R.
Dean) was an equal-favorite in the
Doutta Galla Hurdle, which he won
by half-a-dozen lengths from Hush
Hush and Midhurst. Bookmakers,
however, had their revenge when the
New Zealand-bred Dunky (S. Haag),
after drifting in the betting from
twelves to 25 to 1, led practically
from the start to win the Footscray
Steeple by eight lengths from the
favorite, Mt. Howitt;, another rough
’un in Cleric finished third, It was
Dunky’s first win in Australia, and
at previous starts he had not im-
pressed. Dunky is a five-year-old
gelding by Paper Slipper, a successful
racehorse in New Zealand and a son
of the imported Paper Money, who
ran third in the Derby behind Grand
Parade and Buchan.
The 12-furlongs Winter Handicap
yielded the most thrilling finish seen
at Flemington in many a day. Near-
ing the post there were no fewer than
10 horses in line across the track,
all with a chance. Passing the judge,
the Sydney galloper Blue Legend
singled out to win by a half-length
from Imperious and Black Beau, the
last-named looking the unlucky horse
of the race. Blue Legend has de-
veloped a liking for a bit of distance
since the days when he set up the
unequalled performance of winning
two Doncasters and an Epsom.
* * * *
Even the most perennially optimis-
tic of S.T.C. officials must have been
pleasantly surprised when a crowd
of 20,000 turned up at Canterbury
on Saturday despite an almost total-
absence of normal transport facilities.
The hardened regular racegoer takes
a lot of discouraging. However, it
was evident, as at other recent meet-
ings, that punters were keeping the
purse-strings pretty tight-drawn.
Fields for the card of eight events
were exceptionally large, and slow
beginners found themselves not in
the hunt. Without exception, win-
ners were horses which were in the
first three or four when the field
settled down after the start. Smallest
field of the day was one of nine
runners which contested the Canter-
bury Park Flandicap, and this race
the Talking five-year-old Hava Chat
won from go to whoa; Regal Praise
ran on fairly well, but had no chance
with the winner, who, by a shade of
the odds, started favorite at 9 to 2.
The Flying Handicap (6f.) went
to the Roxburgh five-year-old Denali
(R. James), who won the same event
last year. Now, as he was then,
Denali will be strongly fancied for
the £3OOO Winter Handicap to be
run at Rosehill on July 23. A very
speedy customer, and gameness itself
in a tight finish, Denali is a grey of
exceptionally light hue.
Showing a return to the form which
won him a string of races a year or
so back, the handsome and flashly-
marked chestnut Tamasha (A. Ward)
comfortably beat Golden Rust, High
Admiral and others in the 9-furlongs
Welter. Tamasha is prepared now
by R. Harris, one of Sydney’s
“The telescope — quick!”
youngest trainers; Harris has been
having an excellent run of luck,
largely with horses, like Tamasha,
more or less discarded by other
stables. Tamasha is one to look for
in a middle-distance handicap; he
would get into such a race with a
much handier weight than the 9.1
he humped on Saturday.
* * * *
For Canterbury (before accept-
ances) ;
Two-year-old: Beau China, 1;
Legal Wig, 2; Count Bourbon, 3.
Burwood Mixed (9f.); Foxzami, 1;
Royal Reward, 2; Messenger, 3.
Fixed Weight Maiden: Upright, 1;
Prisoner, 2; Arabian Prince ; 3.
Flying; Snowstream, 1; Denali, 2;
Hava Chat, 3. Canterbury Handi-
cap: Yamboon, 1; Wearie, 2;
Doughnut, 3. Welter: Cognac, 1;
Prince Charleroi, 2 ; Salamanca, 3.
* * * *
“Test-ite”: Australians who met
Martin Donnelly in England in 1948
were not surprised to read of his
double-century against England at
Lord’s. He thus became the first
New Zealander to score a Test cen-
tury at Lord’s and the first ever to
notch a double-century for N.Z. in
a Test. Donnelly played only a few
games against the Australians in
England in 1948, but the manner in
which he hooked a few Lindwall
bouncers at Scarborough made the
Australians glad they didn’t see too
much of him. Bouncers should have
no terror for Donnelly. He has faced
much .tougher stuff in the war and
on the Rugby field; he repped for
England a't Rugger while at Oxford.
Donnelly is one of the few true-blue
amateurs left in the game in England,
with cricket coming merely second
to him after his engineering job with
Courtauld’s in Coventry. He likes a
game on the village green as much
as at Lord’s, and was not over-keen
to be co-opted by his home country
this tour. Courtauld’s, however,
thought it would do both him and
the N.Z. team good. His figures look
good on paper, but even better is
his fame in England as a true-blue
sport in every respect. Incidentally,
at 19, he was the baby of the last
N.Z. team in England in 1937.
* * *
“Legbreak”: Von Nida, Cremin,
Pickworth and Co. had best look
to their laurels. Seeking new sport-
ing worlds to conquer, S’Don Brad-
man is devoting more of his leisure
hours to the Royal and Ancient. A
week or so back Bradman won the
championship of the Mount Osmond
Golf Club (S.A.), which title he had
previously bagged as far back as
1935. The knight was squired, in-
cidentally, by former Test bowler
Tim Wall.
Eric Cremin, the unassuming little
N.S.W. pro. who is seldom in the
Press limelight but is among the
country’s five best golfers today, won
The Lakes Open on Saturday with
two fine last rounds of 69 and 71,
cutting his previous day’s score (73,
74) by seven strokes for an aggregate
287. This was three better than Von
Nida, whose first 36 holes equalled
Cremin’s. “The Von” was natural
favorite for the event, but his putter
wasn’t as good as the winner’s. An
amateur, T. Tanner (The Lakes), was
third with 293.
* * * *
Strange things happened during a
minor gale in the V.F.L. games on
Saturday, for the despised Footscray
blew Richmond Tigers over, the on-
coming North Melbourne downed
Collingwood, and Mebourne just
struggled in ahead of Geelong. It
left Carlton, Collingwood and North
level, Fitzroy and Melbourne on their
heels. How they did so is their own
secret, but nearly 100,000 got to the
six grounds, most of them at M.C.G.
and North Melbourne. North beat
Collingwood, 8.6-4.13, with better use
of the wind and a willingness to mix
it. Footscray flew better than the
Tigers, outpaced them, took the lead
at half-time, and held on to win,
12.11-7.18. The Melbourne-Geelong
affair at M.C.G. didn’t miss a beat,
and kept the crowd yelling to the
finish, 14.17-14.14, for Melbourne.
Fitzroy was untroubled by St. Kilda,
14.10-6.13, Carlton walloped South,
11.15-6.12, and against Essendon’s
16.16 Hawthorn kicked a freakish
7.o—probably a record, with three of
them in the second quarter and four
in the last.
* * * *
The Aussie Rules people are out to
push their game throughout the Com-
monwealth, which means invading
the Rugby parts of N.S.W. and
Queensland; they’ve allocated £50,000
to be spent on the .idea at £lO,OOO a
year for five years. Among other
things, Bruce Andrew, former Col-
lingwood star and latterly a football
writer on Melbourne “Sporting
Globe,” has been appointed “national
director” of the campaign at £lOOO
a year, and there’s talk of improving
and buying grounds, of running films,
and of lectures in schools. One way
the idea could be helped would be
to stop the silly business of sending
first-class southern teams to Sydney
and Brisbane to play the locals, who
have neither the skill nor the men to
offer them serious opposition. The
result is to embarrass rather than to
popularise the local players and, con-
sequently, the game. Recently,
at Sydney C.G., teams from
H.M.A.S. Sydney and Australia
played a preliminary to a West Aus-
tralia v. N.S.W. game. The naval
game was fast, clever and exciting,
the Australia men winning by one
point. In the “big” game the big
Westralians ran all over, jumped all
over and kicked all over the ’Walers,
who had at most nine men capable
of equalling the W.A. standard. It
might be suggested, further, that if
the Melbourne authorities are serious
about building up a paying farm in
N.S.W., they should refrain from
“poaching” the chickens before
they’re hatched.
**“ * *
In Sydney club football on Satur-
day the St. George v. Manly match
was a brawl pure and simple; two
players were sent off and half-a-dozen
or more injured through tactics which
have no place in Rugby Union.
Either through superior football or
superior stoush St. George handed
the Seasiders a father of a hiding,.
42-17. Easts downed Drummoyne,'
14-6, University had a close go with
Wests, 18-15, Randwick toppled
Eastwood, 16-8, and Gordon retained
its place at the top of the table,
beating Parramatta, 14-5.
* * * *
Decisively defeating Frenchman
Robert Villemain in London last
week, Dave Sands restored fully his
pugilistic reputation, which had suf-
fered considerably through his being
badly matched in his first couple of
fights in England. Villemain must
be solid rock from toe to cranium;
Sands, recognised as a deadly
puncher, hit the Frenchman with
everything in the book, but simply
could not knock him. Villemain, for
that matter, has never been knocked
out, and the record-book shows that
of the 34 contests he had from 1944
to 1948, inclusive, he won 33 and
drew one.
Sands now should be in line for a
crack at the world middleweight title
held by American Jake Lamotta,.
thoygh world champions are strangely
reluctant to be matched with anyone
likely to relieve them of their
baubles. Having lost a much-disputed
decision to Lamotta just prior to
Lamotta winning the title from Cer-
dan, Villemain had been considered
certain to be Lamotta’s first opponent
in defence of his crown.
*** * *
Surely it’s about time those who
largely control boxing in Australia
realised that a month or so of
ballyhoo isn’t, these days, necessary
to ensure a full house for anything
promising a worth-while scrap. With
the public just waiting to be separated
from an admission fee, every major
bout is preceded by weeks of “sus-
pense-building” postponements, what
time discerning pug-fans are apt to be
bored to tears. Evidently the pay-
sit-and-look factor of the game is not
alone in this opinion. Witness the
recent exodus abroad of “name”
fighters. Particular Mecca of the dis-
illusioned is England, where they can
expect to be on the receiving end
of more cash than bash. Latest
emigrants have been welterweights
Mickey Tollis and Harry Hayes, who,
on the same bill at Newcastle (Eng.)
recently, each made a successful
debut. Both on points, Tollis beat
Billy Exley of Newcastle and Hayes
downed Alf Marsh of York.


The strongest ready -to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
grinder discs—recommended for shearing-shed work.
W£i
1
mm
. < • ■ .
40z., Boz., 160 z., 1 gallon sizes . . . Hardware and general stores.
ESDAILE'S NEW
TELESCOPIC SIGHT
For Rifles of
any calibre
Fully corrected achro-
matic lens system.
Optical parts rigidly
mounted, suitable for
use on highest power
rifles.
Very long eye relief.
Easily mounted on all
types of rifle.
Specifications: Magnification
2Jx —Eye relief 3§in. to sjin.
Exit pupil 7mm. — Relative
luminosity 49. Field of view
23ift. per 100 yards.
£l6/10/-
AND SONS
PXY/LTD,
42 HUNTER ST„ SYDNEY. 8W8631.
SaArt, lAhCOtv
GIOBITE
TRAVEL CASES
They're lighter, stronger, longer-
lasting. That's why a Globlte
costs less in the long run.
Mode by
FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
X
• Behind every bale of your
wool lie years of courageous
planning and effort.
A.M.L.&F. realise this. That’s
why they give your hard-
earned. wool the same
personal care and supervision
as you would yourself, and
that’s why you can be sure of
the best possible price when
you send your clip to
A.M.L.&F.
86 Years in the Service of the Man on the Land
INC. IN ENGLAND. 1863. azs.o
AUSTRALIAN. MERCANTILE, LAND & FINANCE COY. LTD.
4 BUGH STREET, SYDNEY
AND AT MELBOURNE AND BRISBANE.
Country Branches—N.S.W.: Newcastle, Wagga, Henty, Hay, Cowra,
Scone, Moree, Garah, Wee Waa, Brewarrina. Q’ld: Townsville,
Charleville, St. George, Cunnamulla, Dirranbandi. Assoc. Agents;
McPhie & Co. Pty., Ltd., Toowoomba, Oakey, Dalby and Pittsworth.
AMLI
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Fleece Exhibits.
“Murrawong”: For several
years the fleece classes at Sydney
sheep show have never attracted
more than a handful of exhibits,
and this year’s aggregate resulted
in the greatest flop of all. The
flockmasters who sent them in
are deserving of the highest
praise, particularly Walter
Merriman, who has been the
backbone of this section as well
as of the various sheep sections
for many years.
The excuse is that the sheep
•show is held at the wrong time
of the year to get fleece entries,
but that is blown out by the fact
that country shows just prior to
and just after Sydney have fleece
exhibits that draw many times
more entries. They, in fact, offer
a good representation of the
wool resources of their districts
while Sydney, capital of the
biggest wool-producing State,
with a justifiable claim to being
the greatest Merino wool-selling
centre in the world, could only
offer visitors to its jubilee sheep
show a handful of fleeces by no
means representative of any
breed. Merino, Australian or
British, nor of the wool re-
sources of the State, let alone
the Commonwealth,
It may be that the N.S.W-
.SheepbTeeders’ Association, being
composed chiefly of stud-
breeders, cannot get from within
its membership the type of fleece
or the support demanded. In
any case, some other body
should be given the responsi-
bility of arranging, collecting and
housing an annual fleece com-
petition worthy of the wool in-
dustry.
The Australian Wool Board
might undertake this. It is per-
haps the only body with Com-
monwealth affiliations in the
wool industry which could or-
ganise such a show. Each coun-
try agricultural society can get
anything from 60 to 300 fleeces
at its annual show, and the
A.W.B. might well work through
these societies.
While stud-breeders might be
relied on to a small extent, the
biggest proportion of show
fleeces would come from com-
mercial flock-owners. The former
might be relied on to provide
entries for housed section
fleeces, but by far the most in-
teresting section should be the
unhoused section. To make it
fair and representative, it would
have to be divided in sections,
and those types which the wool-
trade works on would probably
give widest satisfaction.
Rainfall for Wheat.
“T.T.T.”: An experiment in
irrigation of wheat in Chile in
1944 and 1945 gives a good in-
dication of the rainfall required
by a crop.
Sixteen irrigation treatments
were tested, the water being
applied at various times between
early tillering and 20 days after
the wheat had headed. Results
showed that irrigation had a
great effect on yield when water
was applied at the heading stage,
water being very much more
beneficial at that period than at
any other time.
The second most beneficial re-
sults were obtained by watering
at the tillering stage or a month
before heading. Two applica-
tions of water at well-chosen
times produced the same results
as three or four less well-timed
applications. Plots irrigated at
the heading stage and the tiller-
ing stage were equal in yield to
plots receiving four applications
at less well-chosen times.
In New South Wales and
Queensland it is safe to assume
that two good rains at the proper
time after a crop has germinated
are sufficient to produce a good
deal better than the average yield
of wheat, and it is recommended
that wheat be sown at a time
so that it will reach the heading
stage in that period of spring
when a good rain isVnost likely
to occur.
The Handpiece.
“The Expert”: When it isn’t
cutting correctly don’t be too
quick to alter the maker’s set-
ting of the centrepost or to
apply too much tension, as slip-
ping may be occurring some-
where in the drive from the
overhead gear and not giving
the crank sufficient revolutions
to make the cut.
If the shear is being used
with friction-type overhead gear
make sure that the surface of
the cone has not become covered
with grease and that it is mak-
ing full contact with the driv-
ing surface. Also make sure
that the cone spindle is properly
greased and that the ballraces
have not become worn or
clogged with dust. This part of
the machinery revolves at more
than 3000 revs, a minute, and
therefore deserves more atten-
tion than it usually receives.
With portable plants check
the belts, as they are usually
fairly narrow and subject to
more stretching than a heavier
belt, with consequent slipping.
Unless a handpiece receives the
correct number of revolutions
from its drive it cannot work
efficiently. I’ve seen shears ob-
viously suffering from this
neglect returned to the maker
for service with centrepost,
centrepost-cup, tension-pin and
fork-cup all burnt to a straw
“Hey, I just sharpened that—use your own manicure-set !”
yellow instead of a shiny sur-
face where the blue is worn. In
one case the claim was made
that the shear had shorn fewer
than 500 sheep, but was in the
condition one would not expect
after 5,000,000, a clear case of
neglect of vital maintenance at
a time when replacements are
hard and expensive to obtain.
Soil-fertility Tests.
“He-Ne”: The soil tests are
being made, strangely enough,
by the Australian Mutual Provi-
dent Society, and it is no exag-
geration to say that they are
about a decade ahead of any
similar tests. The test plots are at
Bundanoon and Sutton Forest
(N.S.W.) under the direction of
a ? society pastoral inspector,
Hugh W. Robinson, a South
Australian who is fascinated
with the problem of the correct
way of farming Australian soils.
The tests have established em-
phatically that unless molyb-
denum trioxide is present in the
soil legumes fail to establish
themselves. With the assistance
of the C.S.I.R. the tests are on
plots six yards by eight yards
(about 100th of an acre), which
were sown last year on country
that did not respond to super,
or lime dressings, and excluded
basalt soils. The plots were
dressed with super, at the rate
of 2001 b. per acre. Then 41b.
of sub.-clover seed per acre
was sown —31b. of Bacchus
Marsh and 11b. of Dwalganup.
To this was added |lb. of white
and |lb. of red clover per acre.
The purpose is to demonstrate
the effects, if any, of the minor
elements on the establishment
of legumes, which are the basis
of all pastures.
Further tests were made with
potassium as potash, 561 b. per
acre; boron as borax, ilb.;
manganese sulphate 71b., copper
sulphate 41b., zinc sulphate 101 b.
and molybdenum trioxide 2oz.
The legumes failed to establish
themselves anywhere except
where molybdenum was present.
The 2oz. dressing is considered
to be double what is necessary,
as a dressing of loz. (cost Is.)
is sufficient and has given a
response not obtained by super.,
lime or other treatments.
Winged Topdresser.
“Tiki Tapu”: The pre-
liminary tests culminated in a
practical field trial undertaken
in the Wairarapa (N.Z.) district
on 12 different steep-hill coun-
try farms to determine the feasi-
bility and costs of a practical
project.
These trials proved: (1) Air-
craft can be readily adapted to
carry and discharge heavy loads
of superphosphate or other ferti-
liser. (2) A good distribution
can be achieved. (3) A reason-
able accuracy in placing the
swathes both in relation to one
another and in relation to the
defined location has been ob-
tained. (4) As a result of
spreading 140 tons on 1100
acres a satisfactory operating
procedure with several aircraft
was evolved.
Hence most of the factors
affecting a large-scale distribu-
tion have been sufficiently tested
to enable reasonably accurate
conclusions to be reached. The
cost of the fertiliser, including
transport to the aerodrome, was
borne by the farmers, while all
other costs were borne by N.Z.
Soil Conservation Council.
The farmers served were well
satisfied with the distribution,
stating it would not be possible
to improve on it by other
methods. The N.Z. Department
of Agriculture - reports on the
measured distribution were
generally favorable, and showed
that distribution improved as
the operators gained experience.
They also agreed that no other
method on this rough country
would give as effective distribu-
tion.
Butter Quality.
“Agric”; To encourage
quality the Queensland Agricul-
ture Minister (Mr. Collins)
considers that there should be
a greater margin between first-
and choice-grade butter. Open-
ing the annual conference of
dairy-factory managers and sec-
retaries, he warned of prosecu-
tions if the “dishonest” practice
of some butter factories paying
a first-class price for a second-
class article was continued. He
was referring to the percentage
of butter found when graded by
Commonwealth graders to be
below factory grading.
The practice of paying a
dairyfarmer a higher price than
his cream grading warrants ap-
pears to have been introduced
when dairymen had the choice
of two butter factories at ap-
proximately equal distances
from their farms. To retain
their goodwill the highest pos-
sible price was paid for their
cream and a blind eye turned on
the grade. In the 12 months
ended May 31, 1949, choice-
quality butter output in Queens-
land declined from 46.9 per
cent, to 34.5 per cent., but first-
quality gradings increased by
10.6 per cent.
Of the butter submitted this
year under the “Australia”
brand and considered choicest
by the manufacturers 30.06 per
cent, failed to meet the require-
ments of that grade, this being
due to prevalence of weed taint
and the continued dry spell
during the latter half of 1948.
The Agriculture Department
has instituted a campaign aimed
at greater efficiency in the dairy
industry, but the best stimulus
to greater efficiency would be
an increased price for butter
based on the 40-hour week.
♦There is no logical reason why
the worker who enjoys a 40-
hour week should expect to buy
butter at a price based on a 56-
hour dairy week.
One effect of 40-hours is that
many farmers’ sons are heading
for the city to enjoy the short
week and other amenities in
preference to working up to 60
or 70 hours on a farm.
Thoms and Splinters.
“W. Court”: Splinters, thorns,
etc., which look like festering
and can’t be got out . with
tweezers or sterilised needle may


91
&
ak l< d
a r
THE HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
The self-contained, self-emptying
Sanitary System.
Est. 1927.
Imitation is Sincerest Flattery
Beware of imitations similar in appear-
ance but lacking the internal patent
which makes the Hygeia Dissolvcnator
so efficient.
Intending purchasers are invited to in-
vestigate the integrity of the Hygeia
Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd., the bona fldes of
the Hygeia Dissolvcnator, as well as the
value and scope of the Hygeia Guarantee
compared with any other guarantee.
The Hygeia Guarantee includes 7 years
against corrosion.
Let the record of the 12,000 Dissol-
venators sold during the past 22 years
be your guide—do hot be misled by
specious statements.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 20 years.
DISTRIBUTORS:
ai.jS.TT.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Queensland: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Qld.),
609 Colonial Mutual Building, Queen
St., Brisbane.
Victoria: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Vic.)
Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
South Australia: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co.,
(S.A.), Edment’s Building, Bundle
St., Adelaide.
Western Australia: R. P. Mclnemey &
Co., Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
Tasmania : Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd., Laun-
ceston and Hobart.
Darwin: C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales
and Services.
SMOKERS
PIPE TOBACCOS THAT ARE
BLENDED TO GIVE
SATISFACTION TO ALL.
HOUSE OF MURPHY. A blend of
the highest grade of leaf to give a
cool smoke of satisfaction that men
prefer. 22/- per lb. Posted. - t
A.A.A. HILLTOP. A blend of
Australian, American and African.
20/- per lb. Posted.
WINSTON BEADY RUBBED
CIGARETTE TOBACCO. Greatly
improved by better blending of
mature leaf. 24/- per lb. Posted.
Special Quotes to Retailers for lots 20/6.
weight or over.
Write to: Cash Order Dept.,
Hillman Trading Co.,
Commercial Road, Brisbane.
Postage paid on Cash with order.
Postage extra on 0.0. D, Orders.
OR
IK
STORM PRO
FULLY GUARANTEED
LIGHTS EVERY TIME
Available at all leading
tobacconists and stores
Australian Agents:
of* H G \
ISmmmmsmmmmmm - > '-••' * "" •;• •> \ t ••"
fytu
Maurice Newstead Pty. Ltd., Sydney.
Leonard F. Newstead Pty. Ltd., Melb.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO THOMAS STEPHEN STANLEY late
of Yanoora N.S.W.—TAKE NOTICE that
ELSIE STANLEY has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1008 of 1949 on the
grounds of habitual drunkenness during
three years and upwards and cruelty It
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Sydney by the 26th Sep-
tember 1949 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from JOHN
CHARLES PAYNTER, Solicitor, of St.
James Buildings, 107-9 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney, New South Wales. —(n.s.) J.
DOUGHAN, Acting Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— fIr Divorce.
TO MURIEL MAY MAYNE formerly
MURIEL MAY COLLIS late of 14
Budhanan Street Kandos N.S.W.—TAKE
NOTICE that WILFRED JOHN MAYNE
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2259
of 1949 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 20th day of September 1949
and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from H. G. LEVI, Solicitor, 148
Phillip Street, Sydney.—'(n.s.) J.
DOUGHAN, Acting Registrar in Divorce.
<r.w
%
the
This responsibility
is yours
Your beneficiaries have every right to expect that your
estate will be handled with the utmost care. If your
judgment is faulty, imprudent administration can endanger
assets built up by your energy and foresight. However, it
is a simple matter to provide competent control.; the
appointment df Burns Philp Trust Company as executor
or trustee ensures that your beneficiaries will be protected
at every turn.
A copy of "Hands That Never Leave the Wheel" will bo
forwarded on request. Full details of the Company's many
services are given in this interesting booklet.
DIRECTORS: *
James Burns Joseph Mitchell P. T. W. Black Eric Priestley Lee
MANAGER: L. S. Parker SECRETARY: E. R. Overton. A.F.I.A.
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR • TRUSTEE • AGENT
Constituted by Special Act of the N.S.W. Parliament.
Head Office: 7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Tel.: BU 5901 Box 543, G.P.0., Sydney
BP2-49
L jb r, l
Your choice ll CINZANO
Vermouth, whether your taste is for
sweet or dry. CINZANO Vermouth
gives Just that extra exhilarating tang
to the palate.
ytu
I
Allis-Chalmers’ HD-19, with finger-
tip hydraulic steering and Torque
Converter, balancing speed with
load, has a drawbar pull of more
than 36,000 lbs. Faster, simpler
servicing, too.
G.
Allis-Chalmers' AD Grader. A
2-cycle diesel engine for road
surfaces, ditches, clearing
camp sites, yards, etc.
Features full circle re
volving blade. Weight:
21.500 lbs.
Smallest la the A. C trawler range
BEST ™ r IN THE WORLD!
The new ALLIS-CHALMERS’ HD-5 is not just a
Drawbar or Bulldozer Tractor, it’s a tractor
engineered to work with equal efficiency pulling,
pushing or lifting. With more weight—approxi-
mately 11,000 Ihs.—it is properly distributed for
better balance. The HD-5 has large front idlers
and sprockets, giving* greater ground contact . . .
this means less bobbing, smoother, more accurate
operation on bulldozing, ploughing and shovel
work. The ALLIS-CHALMERS’ HD-5 is the most
versatile crawler tractor of its weight available.
37.5 Drawbar HJP.
m
(Bps
mm
w
mwm
p «
li-£& -S
*w*»
/,
V«**;
AC
>1 name well
known throughout the world . . .
fIILIS-CHALMERS
H
ftyu
yield to the old-fashioned
poultice.
A good drawing poultice will
act better when, if the skin be
tough on the spot, it is pared off
as deeply as possible without
causing bleeding. This greatly
increases the chances of the
poultice acting.
Venice turpentine is a splendid
drawing plaster. It should be
spread on clean cloth and pressed
over the affected part. It is
better than a poultice because it
acts without heat, and adheres
very firmly.
If, however, this treatment fails,
the only alternative is hot water
—plenty of it —several times a
day. An abscess will form, with
considerable pain, but the swel-
ling must not be opened until it
is fully ripe. Once opened, it
should be kept open and
drained. The foreign body may
then be easily removed, and the
wound will soon heal if kept
clean.
Making Compost.
“Mr.”; Much of the manurial
value of animal manure and
vegetable waste is lost if they’re
dug into the ground too fresh,
when their mineral and organic
content only slowly becomes
available as plant food. Such
material is best “composted” by
combining the manure and vege-
table litter in the proportions
one part of manure to five or
six parts of vegetable waste. To
each 6in. layer of waste add lin.
layer of manure, and on this
jin. of soil sprinkled with lime.
Build the pile layer by layer
until it’s 4ft. high by 4ft. square.
Make vents Sin. or 4in. in
diameter from top to bottom
every 2ft. or so. This allows the
gases to escape and facilitates
decay. To help this process and
make the heap more friable, tip
in a tin of earthworms if they’re
procurable and water the pile if
it tends to dry out. After a
couple of months turn the pile
over and leave for a month,
when it will be ready to use..
Setting Fruit.
“J.A.D.”: Those mangoes
(B. 5/1 / ’49) which, though pre-
viously unproductive, produced
good crops after the bark had
been roughly hacked about, re-
sponded to a crude method of
cincturing. Most trees produce
flowers on the less vigorous
shoots. An overfree sap-flow pro-
motes wood- and leaf-growth,
with the result that the tree fails
to flower. Gardeners and horti-
culturists often resort to cinctur-
ing to induce flowering. Some
bind a fine wire around some of
the branches just above their
junctions with the main stem.
The wire should be tight enough
to bite into the bark without
actually cutting it.
Note how frequently trees
damaged by fire, or other
causes, later blossom profusely,
often out of season. This phe-
nomenon is due to the same
cause —a check to the- sap.
Cincturing should not be re-
sorted to without expert advice,
as it will kill some trees. Time
to cincture is also important,
the best time usually being the
same as for winter pruning.
Failure to set fruit may be
due to one of many reasons,
such as a mineral deficiency (I
have found bluestone very effec-
tive with citrus-fruits and
grapes), unthriftiness, poor pol-
lination, damage by hail, lack
of other trees for cross-pollina-
tion. When this is so, cinctur-
ing would be useless and harm-
ful.
Hints for the Farm.
“M.”: For black spot on
apples and pears spray with
Bordeaux 6:6:40 in early
spring just as the leaf-buds
are opening. To make the
spray, dissolve 11b. of blue-
stone in a non-metallic vessel
and lib. of slaked lime in
another and add to 2gal. of
water. Pour the two together
and spray out immediately.
“Billjim”: Mix loz. of
metaldehyde to 31b. bran, use
it dry or slightly damp,
thoroughly mixed, and broad-
cast it thinly or scatter in small
heaps a foot apart. It will kill
snails and slugs. Put it out at
night and cover up in the morn-
ing to protect the birds.
“Rooster”: It pays to rug
every cow in the herd whether
good or indifferent producers.
Cows will quickly dry-off when
constantly exposed to wintry
winds and hard frosts. Suit-
able bag rugs to cover the back
and flanks can be made from
discarded sacks. Secure around
the brisket and hind legs, leav-
ing the girth loosely tied.
“Sundowner”: Some of the
sulpha drugs are efficient against
calf scours. They are sulpha-
mezathine, sulphamerazine and
sulphaguanidine. Of the first two
an initial dose of two drams (16
half-dram tablets) per 601 b
bodyweight should be given, fol-
lowed by a dram (eight half-
gramme tablets) per 601 b. body-
weight every 24 hours. First
crush the tablets and incorporate
the powder with food or with
treacle or honey. .. Sulpha-
guanidine for veterinary use
i§ prepared commercially as
a pink powder. Initial dose for
calves is 3i grammes (one level
teaspoon and a half) per 501 b.
bodyweight followed by 2\
grammes (one level teaspoon)
per 501 b. bodyweight, then two
grammes at six-hourly intervals
until scouring subsides,
“K.T,”: There are varieties
of Leghorns which are standard-
ised. England has the white,
brown, buff, red, black, blue,
pile, golden duckwing, silver
duckwing, cuckoo and ex-
chequer, In Australia I have
heard only of the white, black,
brown, buff, pile and blue. In
a Victorian show last year one
was exhibited as a furness. In
England the black’s show a
better average than the whites in
some egg-laying tests.
“Sarina”: When short of an
adhesive to stick a label on a
jar or close an envelope
securely, try egg-white.


>he
stron
sm
•ink
the
ch
■■
ms.
,/ - t '/
At Stationers, Jewellers and Stores
g IRQ f WtNOR” Refill inserts 3/9 each
Buy as many as you want!
o
Complete
with' Cap
Available in four at.
tractive ' ink ; colours
matching. v the ' 'filter
blue, red,
// WUvuyv
m m
The most vital part of a ball-poipt pen is the
refill. Unless you are assured of 100 %service
in this direction your pen cannot serve you fully.
Biro —the world’s most famous bail-point pen—
is obtainable throughout the Eastern hemis-
phere, Discriminating writers choose Biro
“Minor” for the dependability of this service as
much as for Biro’s convenience and ease of
writing. Biro refills are guaranteed to give
satisfaction in whatever country they are sold.
They start writing and keep on writing. Biro
is always at your service.
'
Relieve
NASAL
SORENESS d|ie to colds
Don't suffer—when your nose feels
dried out, or sore, applr Cuticora
Ointment to aid quick relief.
Always keep a tin handy—good
for cuts, bruises and sores. One of
the famous trio—Cuticura Oint-
ment, Soap and Talcum Powder. S3S
luticura
V* OINTMENT
a
c
&
Face Facts
snwfc- 1
It is a fact that the average
Australian male grows
approximately 25,000 hairs
‘ on his face. To obtain a
satisfactory shave, each of
these thousands of individual
hairs must be cut closely and cleanly
every day . . . Wise men know that the daily shave can
be accomplished with speed, ease and comfort by using
a Blue Gillette Blade in a Gillette Razor.
<s>
«
o
a*
'Good Mornings' begin with Gillette
BLUE
Gillette
BLADES
TER FOR 3/- FIVE FOR 1/6
VIM
SMOKE-OH!
PMMS No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“The Labor and Industry Minister
(Mr. Gair) has agreed to meet milk
vendors who want Sunday off at 11
a.m. on Thursday.”
—Brisbane "Courier-Mail.’
Gripes, mate, what’s the sub,
for the milko’s union?
*l* _ * ...
“For sale: Overeat, s.w. Nice
dark-blue, new.” — Suburban paper.
Fur-lined, undoubtedly.
* * . * , .
“Trained nurse required to look
after toddler, three weeks. Posted
daily, otherwise living-in.”
—Suburban paper.
A mail nurse?
4*
Now that the dope-ring is
smashed crooked jockeys to win
races will have to revert to
assault and battery.
4*
“Twin brothers have celebrated
their 100th Wrthday in Sardinia.”
—‘ "S. M. Herald.'’
Where they are regarded as
being very tinny.
“Urgent, two bedrooms, sleepout,
facing eviction.” —Suburban paper.
Owner wants to turn the place
inside out.
Attiring.
“Because the law forbids her taking
off her clothes in public, blonde
showgirl Lili St. Cyr is doing a strip-
tease in reverse.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
It’s doubtful if the crowd that
fills
Our music-halls and vaudevilles
Will see a jot of commonsense
In strip-tease shows whose ter-
mination
Involves no growing expectation
To keep an audience keen and
tense.
For, when a lass, to beat the
law,
Picks up her garments from the
floor
And one by one proceeds to
don
The items that we cannot men-
tion
Her audience, now losing ten-
sion,
Will feel it’s being put upon.
BERT.
Chump’s Chop.
I knew a chap called Chump
who checked
His even weekly screw
Upon his fingers. I suspect
His mean boss knew this, too,
For Chump wav drawing five
notes at
The time a, flywheel tore
A finger off, and after that
The boss just paid him four.
Brian Bureau.
Very Strange.
“Georgi Dimitrov, Bulgaria’s Pre-
mier and secretary-general of the
Bulgarian Communist party, has died
in Moscow after having gone there
‘for health reasons.’ Since early 1948
his increasing inclination towards
Bulgarian nationalism had caused
friction with the Kremlin.”
“It was with the deepest
emotion,” says a leading article
in “Depravda,” believed by ob-
servers to have been from the
pen of Stalin himself, “that the
Politburo learned of the untimely
demise from a regrettable acci-
dent of our beloved M. Dimi-
trov, who for so long carried
the banner of our peaceful and
honest political philosophy
against the evil hosts of the
warmongering capitalists.
“A simple 15-course banquet,
the same as every happy Soviet
worker sits down to in his com-
fortable home after be has
finished his 10-hour day (how
much better off is he than the
worker-slave of the capitalistic
plutocracies, who is compelled,
under threat of torture by his
ruthless exploiters, to toil at his
bench for 16 hours a day!) had
been prepared in honor of M.
Dimitrov, and it was therefore
a great shock to the assembled
members to hear of the acci-
dent.
“It appears that while inspect-
ing the great Karl Marx glue
factory the Bulgarian Premier
skidded on some glue that had
been carelessly dropped. By a
strange chance his head, as he
pitched forward, happened to
go through a loop of piano-
wire with which one of the
N.K.V.D. who had been
assigned to his special protection
had been idly playing. This
tautened, considerably spoiling
M- Dimitrov’s windpipe, the
only one he had. Death, how-
ever, was not caused by strangu-
lation (any comrade - worker
heard mentioning this word in
connection with M. Dimitrov’s
death will be instantly shot) but
by an inability to breathe.”
According to “Red Star” M.
“I COULDN’T have had your mower a year — We've only
been ere ten months !”
Dimitrov met his end through a
simple accident during an in-
spection by him of one of the
latest Mark IV type Red Army
bullock-wagons. Intensely in-
terested in the splendid work-
manship, he had got down on
his back the better to admire
the beautiful finish of one of
the iron tyres. Just as his neck
was under it a soldier nearly
sneezed, causing the chock hold-
ing the wheel to be displaced
and the vehicle to roll forward.
The special investigation ordered
by M. Beria completely exoner-
ated everybody for the irrepar-
able damage done to M. Dimi-
trov’s cervical vertebrae, the acci-
dent being put down to an act
of Marx.
“The Red Army proudly an-
nounces that it will fire, as a
tribute to our beloved Comrade
and leader of Bulgaria’s New
Democracy, a salute of 101 guns
as soon as the breech-blocks for
them are made in the gigantic
underground World Revolution
ordnance factory that is now in
full production somewhere east
of the Urals, and which could
continue to function indefinitely
even if 1000 atom-bombs were
dropped on it by the war-mad
Truman and his gang of cut-
throats in Congress!”
Moscow Radio, beaming to
American listeners, has revealed
that a series of freak coinci-
dences led to M. Dimitrov’s un-
timely death, “for which every
one of the peace-loving coun-
tries who rightly regard our
Marshal Stalin as the arch-pre-
server of peace has gone into
deep mourning.”
The announcer, his voice
choked with what could have
been sobs or something, said
that while in the Soviet capital
the Bulgarian Premier visited
some special apartments in
N.K.V.D. House on affairs of
State, and while there had ex-
pressed a desire personally to
test the new truth drug dis-
covered by the famous Soviet
scientist Professor Dumbello-
vitch. Immediately after taking
it M. Dimitrov had a friendly
discussion with M. Beria on his
personal views of life in Soviet
Russia. When he had finished
speaking M. Dimitrov had sat
down rather heavily on a settee.
As he did so one of the spiral
springs in it, which on later in-
vestigation proved to be larger
and stronger than the usual
type, had catapulted him
straight through a near-by win-
dow, which by an unlucky
chance happened to be open.
From this window there was a
sheer drop of one hundred feet
on to concrete. The Vice-Com-
missar in charge of the factory
which had supplied this faulty
spring had since been punished
by being made a Commissar.
“Rude Pravo,” Sofia’s leading
Communist daily, has learned
on “unimpeachable authority”
that, rendered perhaps over-
reckless through having par-
taken of a nip of some new-
vintage vodka specially pro-
cessed from the by-products of
the great Ivan the Terrible col-
lectivised offal factory, M.
Dimitrov had essayed a ride in
one of the new “people’s cars,”
which for the present are con-
fined to the use of party mem-
bers, through Moscow’s streets,
potholes and all. He seemed to
be in pain after it and had to
be carried to his barbed-wire
hotel. Professor Bumpoff, the
famous Soviet authority on
dandruff and flat feet, was called
in. He found that M. Dimi-
trov’s two kidneys had broken
from their moorings, his liver
couldn’t be located and his
lights had been considerably
dimmed. He ordered special
lead injections, and these had
been given under the direction
of an N.K.V.D. squad. They
were quite successful.
Moscow “News” says that M.
Dimitrov on his visit to Mos-
cow had addressed a great
gathering of workers and told
them of the wonderful success
the Communists were meeting
in their nation-wide coal strike
in Australia. “In terms of the
misery and chaos which, as the
architect of the Cominform, I
am proud to say they are caus-
ing,” M. Dimitrov had told
them, “the money we spend on
keeping the Australian Com-
munists in power is a baga-
telle!” The strike weapon, M.
Dimitrov had said, was a
glorious weapon in the hands of
the downtrodden proletariat.
Soon after this speech the Bul-
garian Premier, on the advice of
a high N.K.V.D. doctor, had
voluntarily gone on a temporary
diet of brine. It was well
known that M. Dimitrov had a
bad memory, and apparently he
forgot to go off it, and, owing
to his high rank, nobody had
liked to remind him. He was
apparently just getting used to
this unusual diet when he died,
probably from acute appendi-
citis or an ingrowing wart on
his umbilicus.
BO.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4jjd. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Housing Control
After two years of flat-life, and with a
new Australian in the offing, a friend of
mine heard of a “temporary dwelling”
for sale at £l5O. He decided to buy and
was prepared to pay cash. The valuer,
looking at the condition of the ex-Army
huts which were the “temporary dwel-
ling,” valued it at £55, and the land at the
price of the previous sale (£55), making
£llO in all.
The whole deal had to be put through
the usual channels of “Vendor’s State-
ment,” “Application for Consent” and
“Approval of the Commissioner for
Prices,” plus the valuation fees, transfer
fees, and what-have-you that goes with
a property transaction in these days of
“Labor” controls.
The catch is that, had the land not had
a “temporary dwelling” erected thereon,
the whole deal could have gone through
on a cash basis, without the consent of
the Commissioner for Prices, as sales of
vacant land under £2OO are not subject to
official permission in Queensland,
So where it would be quite legal for
him to buy land valued at £55 for £2OO
with no improvements, it is illegal for him
to buy it for £9O less, with improvements!
The “temporary dwelling” is easily re-
movable, and as my friend is likely to
move in soon, I believe that the vacant
lot next to his place will have a nice pile
of timber on it while the sale of a
“Vacant” lot goes through, after which
it will be re-erected to comply with the
“Law of Labor.” — Video (Q.).
The Northern Cattle Dream
The Federal Government’s grandiose
cattle scheme in the north sounds good,
but it would be interesting to know where
it hopes to find the necessary breeding
stock.
The shortage of beef stock, particularly
cows and heifers, will limit any imme-
diate expansion of the industry, and these
cannot be increased overnight even by
the flashing of a £5O-million bank-roll.
Beef herds could be added to quickly
by saving young female stock on southern
dairyfarms, most of which are at present
sold off as bobbies, but no one has yet
worked out a satisfactory way of doing
it.
The first step might be to encourage
beef production in N. S. Wales and Vic-
toria. The N. S. Wales Department of
Agriculture, for instance, could help by
concentrating more on beef breeds than
it does at present, and encouraging the
retention of female calves by dairy-
farmers for eventual sale to beef men.
At present the beef industry is badly
neglected by the department, and the
cross-breeding of beef and dairy cattle,
even as an emergency measure, is
frowned upon because of possible harm
to dairy strains and the feed required to
raise heifers.
Not all dairy stock are suitable for
crossing with beef breeds, of course, but
many are, and Shorthorns in particular
make a good cross.
If beef is to be the big thing that the
Federal Government envisages, an imme-
diate start should be made to increase
production, even if quality has to be tem-
porarily sacrificed. Unless the breeders
in the north can secure herd foundations
of some sort the money will have been
poured down the drain. — Dick Turpin
(N.S.W.).
Municipal Government
Although the State has made tremen-
dous strides in the last 50 years, the
form and functions of municipal govern-
ment have not developed accordingly.
The war-time practice of loading muni-
cipalities with extra work still obtains,
and impecunious shires are expected to
contribute to the maintenance of such
bodies as the Country Fire Authority,
which should not be their responsibility
at all.
State Governments once accepted a
greater measure of responsibility for
their junior counterparts than they do
today. Rates were subsidised pound for
pound, but that assistance has been
gradually whittled away until it no
longer exists.
Another anomaly appears to be rating
exemptions on State and Commonwealth
property such as forests and soldier-
settlement areas and land occupied by
Government buildings. Shires, particu-
larly those with great areas of unde-
veloped or partly-developed country,
find it impossible, despite near-maximum
rating and some assistance from the
Country Roads Board and Public Works
Department, to maintain considerable
mileages of roads without which pro-
gress cannot be made.— Plain Aus-
tralian (Vic.).
Chestnut
That yarn about the three Scotties and
the three bottles of water (B. 8/ 6 / ’49) re-
minded me of an equally old one about
the Chinaman who tried to train his horse
to live without fodder by giving it a
handful of corn' less every day.
Australian workers are trying the same
trick with modern industry, which can be
kept' alive and vigorous only on a
generous diet of coal, steel, timber and
other solids. For years the daily quota
has been gradually reduced, with the
result that the mechanised horse is obvi-
ously starving to death. The poor brute
can no longer pull its own weight or stand
on its own legs, but has to be propped
up with subsidies and dopes of many
kinds, including imported manpower.
Even so it moves only by fits and starts
when it isn’t jibbing or lying down be-
tween the shafts.
In Adelaide a host of new migrants
are being “housed” in tents
under wintry conditions, and even the
“prosperous” citizens are groping and
shivering and going hungry for lack of
gas, electricity and transport. Factories
are slowing down, workers are being
sacked and industry is being starved to
a skeleton on a diet of hot air and poli-
tical philosophy. If the treatment is con-
tinued it will follow the example of the
Chinaman’s noble animal. Imphem
(S.A.).
Air Transport
There can be few things more in-
congruous than a country with such
dreadfully inefficient internal communi-
cations bragging about its “airminded-
ness,” but Australians and their Press
get over that by pointing out that the
anticipated progress of the next few years
will render all other forms of transport
redundant. Unless there is some com-
pletely unforeseen development the same
period i§ much more likely to witness a
drastic decline in the air-carrying busi-
ness.
The post-war boom is attributed by
the layman largely to war-induced air-
mindedness, whereas, in fact, it is due
almost entirely to the availability of
hundreds of airfields and thousands of
cheap planes. The one thing you find
in common today right round the world
in all the small airlines —in the small
charter concerns which will carry beef
in the Kimberleys, stud stock from
Albury to the Show, ship’s crews or
propeller shafts from London to any
port in the world, and in the hundreds
of “veterans” operating in the U.S.A.—is
the fact that their operations are based
almost entirely on the use of “disposal”
aircraft, mainly Dakotas or converted
bombers which could be bought and put
in the air for less than £lO,OOO, With
the replacement cost of a Dakota stand-
ing at something like £165,000 today you
can write off 99 per cent, of those
operators when their existing planes
wear out.
The removal of this uneconomic com-
petition will assist the major airlines by
allowing charges to rise to something
closer to the true level, but it won’t
solve the problem of replacement,
which, according to Hudson Fysh, killed
Qantas and which seems likely to wipe
out the last traces of private enterprise
in a very short time.
The matter has been under review by
the Royal Aeronautical Society, and, in
the course of discussions, some interest-
ing figures have come to light. Large
airliners are now costing from 50s. to
60s. per pound of gross weight com-
pared with the figure of 20s. before the
war. Developmental costs for such
machines run from £4O to £5O per pound,
and a manufacturer needs an order for
some 400 units before he can hope to
break even on the deal, which means
that, without defence orders, one plant
would be capable of supplying the needs
of the world.
The consensus of opinion appeared to
be that, although air transport was
fundamentally a. commercial business, it
also had political, diplomatic, security
and trade implications which tended to
obscure the original idea. That, con-
densed into plain language, means you
can have as much of it as you wish as
long as you are prepared to meet the
cost 5f maintaining your position out of
taxes. And that makes the popular Aus-
tralian idea —that once you help the
business to get established it will soon
be self-supporting—somewhat fallacious.
If the Royal Aeronautical Society is
right it is much more likely that with
heavily-subsidised planes added to sub-
sidised railways, ships and Sydney trams,
Australia has yet to learn what it is to
be taxed. — Transporticus (Singapore).
Coal
I was surprised to see an advertise-
ment in The Bulletin which stated that
“Coal takes millions of years to pro-
duce.” Give the miners a break. They
may have to strike in mid-winter and
hold up all supplies, but they’re not quite
as slow as all that.— Mrs. P. (S.A.).
Coalminers
With the end of the coal strike it be-
hoves Government and other authorities
to see that as little bitterness as possible
remains with the non - Communist
strikers.
Individually the coalminer is a good
type; he springs mainly from the sturdy
stock of Wales and northern England,
and his loyalty to his mates, his humor
and his courage are proverbial. Nor
would journalists find much material for
a series of “naked-city” articles on the
coalfields, where beer, football and bet-
ting are the main forms of relaxation.
The reason for the present strike —the
machinations of Communist agitators—
is obvious, but other sections of the
industrial community who found them-
selves isolated, as the miners are, from
the fountainhead of politics and affairs
and the target of shrewd professional
trouble-makers would perhaps be as sub-
ject to industrial fevers as the miners.
Add to that the fact that the history of
the N. S. Wales coal industry has not
been a pretty one, and the attitude of
the miners is less inexplicable than some
make out.
But if, with the end of the strike, they
are handled in the right way there is a
wonderful opportunity to turn their de-
feat into a powerful inducement to
future peace and production.
One essential is the removal of the
Communists from the coalfields. That
can be done —it has been done at the
rocket-range in S.A. —and legislation
could be introduced to protect both the
coal and steel industries, as key indus-
tries vital to the nation’s wellbeing, from
Communist influence. —D. T. (N.S.W.).
Coal in Queensland
Who wants coal? In Queensland we
have Blair Athol, with enough coal in
sight to serve the whole of Australia for
years. That field was discovered during
’6l, its wealth proved in ’6s—not, as
some “Labor” members would have us
believe, during their time in office.
Twenty-odd years ago a syndicate bought
the rights to exploit the coal, and had
a railway planned with a port at Pigeon
Island. Theodore scotched that idea—
the coal belonged to “the people.”
North of Blair Athol, 60 miles inland
from Mackay, there is the Nebo field,
estimated to be as big as Blair Athol.
No one is allowed to work it. On the
Upper Burnett, during ’46, E. Kummer-
field, of Biggenden, discovered coal
about 14 miles from Monto. That field
has been tested to hold over £lOOO mil-
lion worth of coal at present values.
Government restrictions forbid itr use.
At Collinsville the State runs the coal-
mines with the usual State loss, strikes
and half-development.
The Callide Valley is worked under
difficulties. The State Government is
too intent on duplicating suburban lines
to run a railway to it. Private enter-
prise has the contract to lift that coal in
dribbling quantities, yet its area and ex-
tent challenge Blair Athol,
Who wants coal? In the Brisbane
suburbs, 10 miles from the post-office,
a large seam of coal pokes its head out
of the ground between Lindum and
Hemmant and dares those who would
touch it —the stuff is safe under Gov-
ernment protection.
West Moreton, except Rosewood, is
tied up with the N. S. Wales monopoly.
There is enough there to supply all
Queensland for years. The parrot-cry is
that it belongs to the people, not to any
capitalist monopoly. That is why it is
stagnant and used as a plaything by the
greatest monopoly ever known in Aus-
tralia—a few select Corns whose avowed
intention is to wreck industry and pull
Australia down with it. —Q. (Q.).
Unions and Skill
It’s a pity our trade-unions don’t
encourage their members to take a
healthy pride in skill and workmanship.
As individuals our workmen usually give
considerable attention to this matter, but
there is not a union that I know of
which, as a body, does a thing towards
it.
The unions should classify their mem-
bers for skill at their trade. The more
highly-classified would fairly be worth
extra pay or other recognition. The
Middle Ages had some such scheme
among its craftsmen. — Metax (Tas.).
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 25
(cryptic type.)
Across.
I—Rent vehicle takes shellfish for a
sleepyhead. (3, 3,6)
9 A hundred go to the rope in
harmony. (6)
10— Dad is upset, but not by a
lioness, when a planet is farthest
from the sun. (8)
11— No quote turned intellectual. (6)
12— Prelate in a plaything may be
drunk. (5)
14 —Antique musical instrument can
give a hen praise. (9)
17 — Vestment for a pound. (3)
18— Weight is not returned. (3)
19 Backward faculty horse was in
front and yet lagged behind in
disorder. (9)
20 Very suspicious is upset by Aunt
Sally. (5)
22 Shakspeare heroine and I
muddled the gnome. (6)
24 You are jacking open an insur-
rection. (8)
25 By which resolutions are carried
at the donkey’s meetings? (6)
{Solution in next issue.)
26 —What French finish to ring a bet
for the widow of George V.
(5, 7)
Down.
2 In folding and growing larger.
(10)
3 Opera composer king is a green
stain. (9)
4 Little devil wandering and getting
better. (9)
5 To work and press together. (5)
6 Lamb. (4)
7 Gibbon, Gibbon and Gibbon
Ltd. (6, 8)
8— N.S.W. river with the snug re-
versal going to action-stations.
(7, 3,4)
13 —Slow-moving sailor and Diana
join the class. (10)
15 — Separate layer on a feature of
the Acropolis. (9)
16 — You can see lights in the middle
of this disease. (9)
21—Is the girl put forth? (5)
23 —Boy joins the queue in Meso-
potamia. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 24.


[JU HD II
an no
11
li
on mi hd no n
‘ n
no hd HOOD n
i ini on cm cm n
111
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
maintains
STEADY PROGRESS
EXTRACTS FROM ANNUAL REPORT
FOR 1948:
★
NEW BUSINESS RECORD established by the issue of 9,433 Policies
assuring £5,921,134.
★
ASSETS INCREASED BY £1.104,654 after providing £20,950 for
depreciation, £lOO,OOO to write down assets and £lO,OOO for
deferred repairs.
ASSETS NOW TOTAL £17,394,693
Special Additional Reserves amount to £700,000
Premium Income amounted to £1,649,605
Death and Accident Claims and Endowment
Assurances, maturing during 1948, totalled £730,400
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
(Incorporated in New South Wales in 1878)
HEAD OFFICE:
CITY MUTUAL BUILDING, 60-66 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
Board of Directors:
R. H. TRUMAN (Chairman)
HENRY E. COLEMAN Dr. R. J. TAYLOR
Hon. T. G. MURRAY, M.L.C. W. P. McGRATH
v C. A. RALPH, General Manager
