

ROYAL PURPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
sQi.
JL 1 a d d 3 S do 3SOOH
The Bulletin
“Th« Bulletin,” Vol. 70—No. 3609
Wednesday, April 13, 1040
Price 6d,
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
RESTORMEL CASTLE, PART OF THE DUCHY OF CORNWALL
TDESTORMEL CASTLE, Situated on the bank of the River Fowey
in Cornwall, near the ancient market town of Lostwithiel, was
built originally in the year 1100 by Baldwin FitzTurstin, son of the
Sheriff of the county. The Castle at that time formed part of the
manor of Bodardle, which was later inherited by Robert Fitz-
William, Lord of Cardinham. In 1270 the Castle was granted to
the Earl of Cornwall, and in 1299 the Earldom of Cornwall reverted
to the Crown. Since that date Restormel has belonged to the
Duchy of Cornwall, as it is now known, and which forms an
apanage of the King’s eldest son. In 1354 and again in 1365 the
Castle was visited by the Black Prince.
During the Civil War Restormel was garrisoned by the Parlia-
mentarian army of Lord Essex which was holding the towns of
Fowey and Lostwithiel. It was captured on 21st August, 1644, by
Sir Richard Grenville.
The Castle Keep is a circular building about 125 feet in
diameter built of locally quarried stone and slate. The outer face
of the circular wall which is eight feet thick and 25 feet high was
fortified by a moat 50 feet wide and 13 feet deep. A series of two-
storied apartments surrounded the courtyard of the Keep. The
gate in the square entrance tower was defended by a drawbridge.
Five miles from Restormel is Fowey, a quaint and typically
Cornish seaport at the mouth of the River Fowey. At a remote
period in English history Fowey was one of the foremost seaports
in the Kingdom, and the achievements of the “Gallants of Fowey”
rank with those of the “Seadogs of Devon.” China clay is exported
from Fowey to all parts of the world, and its deep-water harbour
admits vessels of up to 13,000 tons. Fowey appears as “Troy Town”
in the writings of Sir Arthur Quiller-Couch, who lived here for
many years.


Ttbru Writing
. O iUI VI nt HOMF
nt HOnP
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.^
My Name
My Address
8.8. 249
AGE.
Reprint of the Australian
book that won fame overseas.
Set in the S.A. vineyards,
and sparkling as the wine
itself. A book you’ll enjoy.
SHAKESPEARE HEAD PRESS
The Red Page
OLD SYDNEY .
A phase of book-producing which has
developed by leaps and bounds in recent
years in Australia under the impact of
abundant money is the printing of fine
editions.
This country can compete with any in
that field today, and editors and authors
who look for artistry in production and
who were forced to go, a generation back,
to the Golden Cockerel or Vienna have
machinery for their purpose at the front
door in such houses as the Shepherd
Press and Waite and Bull, whose limited
issues are becoming collectors’ pieces
not only here but overseas.
The latest emanation of one of these
presses is an edition of J. Skinner Prout’s
Sydney Illustrated. It is printed for
Tyrrell’s Proprietary, Ltd., by Waite and
Bull, the matter consisting of 14 plates
in full color by Prout, who painted the
originals in the year in which Sydney be-
came a corporation 1842-43 with
letterpress by John Rae, the first
town clerk of Sydney. The whole
is edited and signed by James
R. Tyrrell, who owns the originals
and who has done his work with
an unobtrusive economy of inter-
ference with text and of explanation
which is an example to those who under-
take editions of this kind—for it often
happens that there is more editor than
original; a fatal condition of affairs
from the student’s point of view.
The volume has been carefully de-
signed in relation to its content and
nature and with a proper regard for the
proportions of the plates. It is bound in
heavy cloth boards, gilt, with one of
Prout’s illustrations in color laid on the
front board. The paper is Georgian,
hand-made, lliin. by 9in., deckled at the'
base, the size of the type-page s|in. by
7£in. The 14 plates are by shv,
tipped in, and the text is set in modern
Garamond and Baskerville types.
A noticeable and regrettable feature —
and about the only one about which
there is reason to complain from a col-
lector’s point of view—is the absence of
forme signatures which overseas printers
generally use for (he convenience of col-
lators.
The book is well arranged, A frontal
end map prepared by Prout himself
explains the positions from which each
plate was drawn. Portraits ’and short
biographies of Skinner Prout and John
Rae are included. The former was a son of
Samuel Prout, the watefcolor painter and
friend of John Ruskin. He published his
Australian pictures in parts in Sydney
in 1842-43, when there was quite a local
rage for illustration of Port Jackson
beauties, so that he had several competi-
tors —the views of J. G. Austin (1836),
Maclehose (1839) and Joseph Fowles,
several of whose watercolors, along with
those of Lewis, son of the Government
architect, which are in the Dixson Gallery
and Mitchell Library, fill in the detail
of Prout’s distant prospects. Prout’s
work is represented in many galleries
overseas as well as here.
Rae, the Aberdonian who wrote the
letterpress, lived until 1900 and saw the
little town of 40,000 people which he
described nearly 60 years earlier grow to
be one of the greatest cities in the British
Empire.
The plates in the book were painted
before impressionist art was invented. If
the influence of any master is obvious in
some of the work it is that of Turner.
It is not great watercolor, but it has the
advantage of being explicit and as de-
tailed as that medium will allow. From
the historian’s viewpoint it is highly satis-
factory in that he can feel assured that
it is accurate in detail and perspective, a
fact of which he can easily satisfy him-
self with the aid of contemporary plans
and descriptions. Its detail fills in the
gaps a? to exact appearance and
atmosphere which these and prose can-
not fill.
The first plate, for instance, shows
what the region of Circular Quay looked
like when Sydney became a city. It
shows Benelong Point without Govern-
ment House, but with Greenway’s im-
mense stable —its walls now forming the
outer shell of the Conservatorium of
Music —towering a little too much ele-
vated over the Eastern Ridge. Fort Mac-
quarie, another Greenway building,
nestles low down on the point, its dimen-
sions lending a little color to Greenway’s
own scorn of the scale of his masterpiece
as something that might have been de-
signed by Uncle Toby and Corporal Trim
playing in the garden.
But it is the foreground which is the
valuable piece of historical data rather
than the harbor and the treed headland.
There the Tank Stream cuts its way
through a sandbank at low tide under a
sandy declivity. Men hunt for bait in
the stream just below Dawson’s old iron-
forge, which was such a source of pride
to the city in the ’forties—it was founded
in 1833 —for its having “an excellent
high-pressure steam-engine of eight horse-
power” 1 and for having cast “ironwork
of more than four tons weight.” The
trickle of the stream attracts the eye.
For here we see the “run of fresh water”
near which Phillip hoisted his flag in
1788, much as it was in his day as to
dimension, though stripped of its leafy
surroundings and somewhat more
odorous than of yore.
The second view shows Woolloomoo-
loo Bay taken from a point near which
the Captain Cook statue stands in Hyde
Park almost in front of Sydney Gram-
mar School. The foreground is empty
save for a few huts. What are now treed
parks surrounded by motor-cars are bare
with raw slashes of earth showing
through the green of the grass. A post-
and-rail fence rambles leisurely beside the
line of William-street on which the only
traffic consists of a rig with a white pony
and three pedestrians. Beyond this road
is Macquarie’s 10ft. Domain wall.
The buildings attached to St. Mary’s
are not there and, from the gate-house,
the road into the Domain, past the Art
Gallery of today, is visible—red sand-
stone like all the roads of that period.
Beyond the bay the wooded cliffs have
not been cut away along the point from
which the First A.I.F. embarked. And
on the hill above —“Potts Point” —can
be seen the original line of buildings,
Bishopscourt, afterwards known as
The Castle, Wyldefel, the home of Mr.
Judge Advocate Wylde on land granted
to him by Macquarie in 1819. Garden
Island is seen separated from the main-
land by a wide stretch of water, its only
signs of civilisation some lonely graves,
including that of poor Ellis Bent, which
is pictured on the front cover of the
book. It is easy to understand from this
picture the fascination this island had for
Grfeenway, who had wished to turn it into
an ornate pyramidal cenotaph to remem-
ber the Princess Charlotte.
Next comes Miller’s Point —“Jack the
Miller’s” —its original windmill no longer
there, but with its present features in
embryo f and recognisable; next Fort
Dawes, now wiped off the map, where the
roaring traffic of the Harbor Bridge
passes. It displays a scene little changed
today save for the coverage of houses on
the Harbor slopes and the departure of
tall sails. The cattle in the foreground
belong to the city abbatoirs —which
flourished near the point where the
bridge begins to cross the Harbor.
Next in order comes “Sydney Cove
Looking South.” This is taken from the
western side of the Cove, looking across
the house of Robert Campbell, the first
great Australian merchant, to the widely-
spaced town. Old Government House,
that decrepit haunt of white-ants and
dissension, in the attic of which the
drunken soldiery found Bligh in January,
1808, still stands at the corner of Phillip-
and Bridge-streets. The tall spire of St.
James, with the old Supreme Court next
to it, towers over the scene. It has been
reconstructed since that day, its contours
altered, the old copper removed and re-
patterned, broaches added to support its
leaning height. It was well out of plumb
when examined in the ’nineties of last
century.
The “Lower Fall of Willoughby,”
North Shore, can be passed over as some-
thing long forgotten. It was a favorite
picnic haunt in the ’forties:
This wild and strange retreat
As e’er was trod by outlaws’ feet.
It gives almost as fair an idea of the
general loneliness of Sydney’s immediate
environs as the picture of “Sydney Look-
ing West,” taken from the gate of M. W.
Lewis, the Government Architect of the
day, on Darling Point. In this the Har-
bor looks empty, and conjures up a
vision of the prospect as it was when it
inspired W. C. Wentworth to write, 20
years or so earlier, of the “infinite
diversity of hill and dale on either side
of the Harbor forming altogether a
coup (Tail, of which it may be safely
asserted that few towns can boast a
parallel,” with its great sweeps of placid
water and its background a “vast expanse
of forest” which “forcibly reminded the
onlooker of the ocean convulsed in tem-
pests, save that the billows slumber in
fixed and leaden stillness.”
The other views fill in some of the de-
tail of the more-distant prospects. The
new Government House, emanation of
the Regency Gothic period, the child of
the brain of Sir Edward Blore, architect
to Queen Victoria, creator of Scott’s
Abbotsford, is at last rising. Greenway’s
lighthouse, first of his works, stands
above the thunder of the waves, nearly
twin to the present structure which was
put up beside it in facsimile before the
original was pulled down in the ’eighties.
“Port Jackson, East of Bradley’s Head,”
shows little animation or evidence of
civilisation round its great sweeps of
water, save a few small sails and the roof
of Vaucluse House, then inhabited by a
very lively statesman, peeping up through
the trees. “Cockatoo Island” had not had
its top torn off. It was still a jail and had
not built a single cruiser or destroyer.
All the busy industrial suburbs beyond it
were producing little but trees.
“Sydney from the South” is full of
blank spaces, the hills of Darlinghurst a
wilderness except for the new jail. At the
south end of George-street, where St.
Laurence stands (its spire not yet on), the
view is so clear that it is possible to see
the smoke rising from the spot near the
presept position of the Trades Hall where
John Dickson, from Maid Lane in the
Borough, founded Australian steam in-
dustry in June, 1815, with a single boy
to manage the monster which ground for
him 10 bushels of wheat in an hour:
little knowing that 135 years later a Dick-
son descendant would be contesting a
Liberal plebiscite against the 84-year-old
William Morris Hughes to represent a
Parliamentary area which, in both Mac-
quarie’s and Prout’s days, was still a
tangled wilderness of tree and rock con-
taining no order of politicians higher than
the snakes.
It is historically valuable that books
of original documents should appear
from time to time in proper facsimile,
even if considerably adorned and in a
guise of beauty to which the technical
resources of the original time to which
they refer could not have hoped to
attain.
Such works of revival provide us, both
in their own semblance and in their
matter, with standards of comparison by
which we can see into the past and mea-
sure a progress which has been stagger-
ing and beyond the conception of those
who flourished in the days when Prout
and Rae compiled theft editions. It is
almost unbelievable that even a handful
of men actually are alive today who were
born in the period when the pictures in
this book were made; almost as in-
credible as that there could have been so
much local technical advance in the art
of printing in the century as is displayed
by comparison between the original edi-
tion of Prout and Mr. Tyrrell’s modern
rendering.
M. H.ELLIS..
A Life of Ned Kelly.
Max Brown’s Australian Son; a Life
of Ned Kelly (Georgian House) was pub-
lished just in time to be reviewed in the
first issue of Sydney “Sunday Herald”:
which devoted two columns to the theme
of “It is time we forgot about the Kellys.”
Since any notice of an Australian book
in an Australian newspaper is an act of
rare benevolence, the “Sunday Herald”
was kind to Mr. Brown ; and at the same
time, since it had got two columns for
its first public appearance out of the
news-value of his name, the paper was
obviously unkind to Ned Kelly.
The article was, in fact, typical of the
extraordinary lack of sophistication in the
Australian attitude to the bushrangers as
literary characters. Reviewers, generally,
find themselves troubled by the question
of whether the Kellys were good men or
bad men ; and finding, as of course is the
case, that the Kellys were bad men who
murdered policemen, feel obliged to
regard them as unsuitable themes for
literature.
But this agonising problem is really
entirely irrelevant. It would never arise
were not the bushrangers still compara-
tively close to us in time, so that there
remains a lingering fear that they may be
lurking round a corner somewhere to
spring upon the reviewer as he strolls
innocently to work. For who has ever
read Lorna Doone with shame because
these earlier outlaws were undesirable
citizens; who has ever attended a per-
formance of “Carmen” with the fear that
the brigands may leap from the stage to
bail up the audience or corrupt the youth
of the nation ; who has ever informed the
Scots that it is time they forgot about
Rob Roy? The outlaw is, simply, a
legitimate subject for literature, as is any
other kind of man; and, because he
appeals to something tameless in all of
us, a more than usually fascinating
subject.
In the specific case of Ned Kelly it
would be legitimate for a reviewer to
complain that he has been too much
written about, for there have been many
books about the Kellys, and a mere
rehash of earlier biographies would be of
small value ; but even this criticism needs
careful qualification. There has been no
good novel about the Kellys ; there has
been no history of the gang of any
literary value and few histories, except
Charles White’s, of more than fragmen-
tary and unreliable historical value. The
nearest approach to the kind of docu-
mentary book that still needs to be
written about the bushrangers is Frank
Clune’s recent Wild Colonial Boys, deal-
ing chiefly with Ben Hall and his friends ;
but Mr. Clune’s books must be placed
in the category of “popular” rather than
serious literature.
Mr. Brown is, unfortunately, as even
his title indicates, as much a victim of
our closeness in time to the bushrangers
as are the critics who do not regard his
theme as permissible; only in his case
the lack of sophistication works in reverse
and makes him extravagantly enthusiastic.
He is responsible for the astonishing
sentence: “When the die was cast and
Kelly was fated to follow the course to
inevitable eclipse, he approached his mate,
Joe Byrne, like Christ summoning his
disciples, and said: ‘What about it,
Joe?’”
Since that sentence contains, as well as
its excessively partisan simile, the cliche
“the die was cast,” leading to the mixed
metaphor of the “eclipse” and the
bathos of the “What about it Joe?” the
other faults of Mr. Brown’s bio-
graphy should be already sufficiently
demonstrated. With its inflated tone,
its hackneyed and amateurish style
and its feeble and unconvincing
dialogue it is not only of very small
literary value but, because tone and style
have a great deal to do with carrying
conviction? unsatisfactory as history,
Mr. Brown fails, too, except for a
brief reference in his introduction to his
library researches, his interviews with old
settlers and his reading of “the 700-page
Police Commission Report of 1881,” to
quote his authorities, so that both when
he differs from earlier historians and
when he describes hitherto unrecorded
incidents, one is unable to estimate his
degree of reliability. Where, for instance,
did he come across the information that,
as soon as Ned Kelly heard the train’s
whistle at Glenrowan and before the train
had stopped, he shouted, with appropriate
oaths, and with what one must assume
to be clairvoyance, “Curnow has deceived
us!”?
With these defects, Australian Son does
not add as much as it should to the
sober and unpretentious factuality of
Charles White. But the biography,
though still in the “popular” category, is
rather better than the average in that,
whether or not one can accept it all, it
provides new material, including the
text of a long letter alleged to have been
handed by Ned Kelly to Living at Jeril-
derie, and it gives a very full account of
the relatives, supporters and friends of
the gang in the Kelly country.
Indian Out
One thing the last war has done for
literature: it has enlarged the scope of
the novel. Godfrey Blunden has been
moved to write about Russia, Lawson
Glassop about Tobruk, George H.
Johnston about India and Burma, and
now another war-correspondent, Alan
Moorehead, biographer of Montgomery,
capitalises his knowledge of the evacua-
tion of India by Great Britain in The
Rage of the Vulture (Hamish Hamilton).
The story is of the British community
of the Himalayan state of Kandahar, in
the capital of which the British civil
servant was wont to retire comfortably,
well-served, still a sahib. The retired
army officers, a general, a major and a
captain, and their wives and. children,
with the archdeacon and Miss Pursey,
(Continued on inside back cover.)


•truth Min advertising"
\THOM HORDEMS’show
Pavilion
trf
As®
3ft?
AViv -
ill
w S
IWfIH
■ ''s
f
TSV~= ’
-"-a.
N'T
PLANET JUNIOR
THREE-ROW SEEDER, £49/1/6
Units tied together with spacing bars
front and rear, making possible multiple
row seeding. Units float independently to take
care of irregularities of ground and to
allow uniform depth of planting. Price, £49/1/6 complete.
r
-".V
—"S=-
\
N Al
• /<■']
X
md
M'i tW :
VA \ ,
ALL STEEL No. 7 HORSE SCUFFLER fitted
with five reversible tynes.
Width of cut is quickly adjustable
by means of lever. £7/5/6
£TTN
No. 69 ROAD PLOUGH with one-piece
solid cast steel beam, reversible
point of forged steel fitted with
mouldboard and wing share.
Rigidly braced steel handles, fitted
with shoe. Weight, 3001 b. £2B/10/-
A
No. 8 SINGLE FURROW PLOUGH
has channel steel beam and
fitted with No. 8 steel share
and wheel with swivel coulter. £l5/12/-
You mustn't miss our Pavilion—there You'll see the latest
Home Furnishing Designs and Home Accessories.
And right opposite, you'll find our Exhibition of Agricultural Equipment!
While in Sydney, do remember to pop up and inspect all the Farm
Machinery and Implements in the
. AGRICULTURAL DEPARTMENT
BENTALL HAND-POWER
CHAFF CUTTER has
spring loaded rising mouth
and two knives. Cut regu-
lated by reversible worm
pinion to give two cuts,
size iin. or £2O/14/-
BENTALL HAND GRIND-
ING .MILL suitable for
all grain for grinding or
kibbling. Capacity approx.
151 b. per hour grinding,
601 b. per hour kibbling.
Price
£9/12/6
AGRICULTURAL DEPT.—FOURTH FLOOR. 'PHONE: M 2401; BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


THE GOOD RAIN AND THE
TROUBLESOME NEIGHBOR
BY E.O. SCHLUNKE
F\ LI, the afternoon it rained, the
f 1 heavy grey clouds lumbering in
I from the west, pouring and steady-
ing and pouring again until at the
tea-table young Otto Weismann said to
his mother and sister:
“It must be oyer an inch now.”
They looked at him in wordless con-
gratulation because an inch in winter was
a “good rain,” and because he was taking
his new responsibility for the farm very
seriously.
They listened intently when it
slackened, and when it started again they
all relaxed arid his mother said:
“We must thank God for it.”
C\ TTO did not reply to this, not only
y' because he had heard it so often that
it needed no comment, but because he had
a number of things on his mind.
Before he went to bed he saw stars
peeping through the clouds here and
there, and noticed that the shut-off wind-
mill was pointing to the west.
“Only a few showers left in it,” he said.
“But my word, it’s wet. Must be over an
inch and a half.”
His boots were sticky with red mud;
the Riverina soil absorbs rain very slowly
and holds it near the surface, which is its
virtue in drought and its downfall after
heavy cropping or stocking when the rain
falls.
There were more heavy showers after
he went to bed and Otto lay awake think-
ing out his plan,
J N the morning there was bright sun and
* a new world. A lovely smell of damp,
washed earth and a sparkle of dewdrop.
The sheepdogs, when he untied them,
tore around like lunatics because the
ground no longer hurt their feet and the
horses snorted when he opened the stable-
gates and galloped in a wide circle before
entering.
'Hie watercourse past the front of the
house still ran with a gurgling, tinkling
sound, but the water was muddy and it
told its tale of havoc wrought on the
hillsides, beyond the northern boundary-
fence.
All the morning he worked in tlie
machinery-shed with his man, getting the
two five-furrow ploughs ready for fal-
lowing.
/HILE they were still at lunch he
heard the dogs barking so savagely
and persistently that he went to investi-
gate.
Pulled up in the houseyard was a sturdy
grey mare in a sulky, a bearded man
lounging lazily in the seat, flicking the
whip idly at the dogs, but hardly bother-
ing to notice the fury he was rousing.
He was only a small man and old, with
tobacco stains on his whiskers; the
feckless and disreputable neighbor,
Kleinert.
But the way he sat there calmly wait-
ing for Otto to come out and speak to
him, the dogs meanwhile as
no man should, showed that he wasn’t on
one of his usual beg-and-borrow missions.
Otto hailed him cheerily.
“Lovely rain!”
“My word, lovely rain,” Old Kleinert
agreed in a voice so cordial and
enthusiastic that Otto’s spirits lifted imme-
diately. Two men who were so much in
harmony with the day surely couldn’t
fail to make some kind of satisfactory
arrangement.
Old Kleinert studied him up and down
in a deliberate way with his small keen
brown eyes that were practically all that
one could see of his face; he remained
relaxed, with his body in a straight line,
feet crossed against the dashboard, but-
tocks on the edge of the seat, and
shoulders lodged against what Otto’s
father used to call the “lazy-back,” in
lifelong contempt for all lounging and
loungers.
“\/ES, it was good rain,” old Kleinert
1 continued —as if there had been no
wordless interval, “I suppose you’ll let
me have some grass now for Kennedy’s
sheep.”
“No, by hell I won’t!” Otto said. “You
took them on, and, by golly, you’ll have
to look after them.”
Kleinert shook his head and said in a
dispassionate tone, as if he was discussing
a third party;
“You’re a hard man, letting poor sheep
starve to death. Ten were down this
morning.”
“That’s your funeral,” Otto said,
pleased that he could talk with such
assurance to the old humbug. “I suppose
all that’s worrying you is that he won’t
pay agistment for those that die.”
“Oh, well,” Kleinert gave a sort of
sigh and rolled his body a bit to one side,
so that he could get a hand in his pocket.
“I thought you might be feeling a bit
softer-hearted after the rain.”
Then, as though he had to lead on by
a connection of words and ideas like an
essayist, he continued:
“It was good rain all right, but not as
much as I thought last night.”
He extracted a knife by rolling the
other way, and began to carve with deli-
cate, meticulous strokes at his black plug,
catching the shavings in the cupped palm
of his left hand. “There was a power of
water in my lane. I thought I’d be
drowned any minute.”
There was a pregnant silence. A little
tingling feeling ran up Otto’s spine and
he felt a slight quickening of his pulse.
But he answered With deliberate casual-
ness:
“You couldn’t get drowned unless you
were” he checked himself before he
said “drunk,” and substituted “lying down
in it” as not so deliberately offensive but
just as effective.
KLEINERT opened his eyes wide and
stared at Otto, as if he was really
shocked. In an absentminded way he
trickled the pulverised tobacco into his
pipe; and only when he had filled him-
self up with three very monstrous pulls
was he sufficiently fortified to reply.
“No man has a right to turn a whole
riverful of water on to his neighbor’s lane.
Your father would never do a thing like
that. He was always a man that acted
well by his neighbors.”
It was true, and it was crushing. It
sent Otto’s memory reeling back to nights
when he was a very small boy, and they
•still lived in the old pisd-house: when
Kleinert would walk over on a winter’s
evening and sit with his father in front
of the fire, and they’d talk until after mid-
night in English or in German as it suited
their mood or their story. And he would
lie awake in his room near by and listen
with passionate interest as they chuckled
over rare old characters, until the night
when he’d been shamed. Kleinert had
said :
“Liegen lesen macht schwarhe?
Augen,” and his father had answered
“Otto tut’s immer.” He’d known long
since that what had sounded like “Read-
ing lies makes false ways” in old
Kleinert’s colloquial German, and
seemed to be a condemnation of his
avaricious reading of fiction, was merely
“Reading while lying (down) makes bad
eyes.” But he remembered how young
and utterly inexperienced he’d felt, and
the same feeling assailed him now.
Kleinert was watching him and waiting
for an explanation with a good deal of
curiosity, as well as his sense of what
was due to him.
Otto said boldly:
“The real cause of it all is you eating
your place so bare that all the water
rushes off it and erodes our farm,” but
there was little sting in his accusation be-
cause Kleinert received it so incompre-
hendingly. “It was washing deep gutters
all down the Sheoaks Paddock, so Ridd
and I tried to work out some way of sav-
ing it. Ridd is from the Experiment
Farm, you know.”
Old Kleinert nodded at the last part.
“He’s the bloke that’s sweet on your
sister.”
OTTO frowned, because the matter of
Ridd and his sister was full of vexing
problems.
“I’m talking about the soil erosion,”
he said, and Kieinert’s eyes got their
glazed look again. “Ridd and I went into
the question very deeply, and at last he
got hold of a publication from America
about water- diversion banks. The idea is
to stop the water rushing straight down-
hill, and to lead it at a gentle fall of about
one in one hundred round the hill. It
flows slowly then and doesn’t cut into
the soil. That’s a very sound idea, don’t
you think?”
He waited for some sign of agreement
to what was posed as a purely scientific
and theoretical question. But Kleinert
remained immovable and with eyes
averted, taking no risks of being dis-
lodged from his strong position by “fancy
college talk.”
“Well,” Otto went on, talking louder
in the hope of making Kleinert under-
stand better, “that part of the scheme is
all right. We borrowed a dumpy level
from the shire engineer and pegged our
banks, but we came up against a problem
—what to do with the water when we’d
led it across the paddock. If we just
stopped the bank at the fence, it meant
that a big accumulation of water would
go rushing down the hill and tear out a
worse gutter than any of the old ones —
probably undermine the fence. But on
the other hand we couldn’t go on indefi-
nitely with our banks, across one pad-
dock after the other, because we’d be
collecting too much water altogether, and
anyway, we’d soon be out of our farm
and into the neighbors’. You can see that,
can’t you?” he ended almost pleadingly.
But Kleinert was so determined not to
commit himself that he took the merest,
quietest pull at his pipe and released
the smoke in sly tiny spouts into the
dense whiskers at the corners of his
mouth.
Otto decided not to be so scientific in
his terminology.
“We were in a blasted hole. We
couldn’t go and ask the higher-ups in
Ridd’s Department, because they hadn’t
made up their minds about the plan, and
all he’d done with me was strictly under
the lap and unofficial. Well, we wanted
to get something done between the end
of sowing and the beginning of fallow-
ing, so we did the best we could. We
ran one bank into a dam, which was
very good. We let another run down the
grassy headland of the Sheoak Paddock,
which wasn’t too good and likely to
cause trouble in the future. But the top
bank which collected all the water from
your place was a real headache. We
just kept following the level on and on,
hoping for the best. But it ran across
the corner of the Quondong Paddock
and arrived at the top end of your lane.”
KLEINERT said “Oh,” as if he under-
stood something at last and was re-
lieved to be on familiar ground. “No man
has a right to turn all that water on to an-
other man’s road,” he said, very dog-
matically and very firmly. “I got my
rights. I could sue you in a law court
about it.”
“It’s all your water,” Otto said. “I
thought you’d understand that after all
my explaining.”
“But you’ve got no right to steer it
around like that when God meant it to
flow across your Sheoak Paddock.”
“If you’re going to bring God into it,”
said Otto, “I don’t think He meant you
to farm the way you do.”
“All I meant to say was that the law
says that you mustn’t interfere with the
natural course of the water,” Kleinert
said. “Some Council men told me that.”
“Which ones?” Otto asked, trying to
disguise his apprehension.
“The blokes working the grader on the
main road,” said Kleinert.
“They’re only laborers,” Otto said, dis-
missing them easily. “ITie engineer was
very interested in my experiments and
he lent me not only his dumpy level but
one of the Council’s graders to build up
the banks.”
OLD KLEINERT looked gravely
concerned; the grader gang appa-
rently had imparted to him their own
exaggerated respect for the engineer.
“Did he say that you could shoot all
that water into my lane?” he asked in-
credulously. But Otto could see that he
needed only to be convinced of that and
he would be satisfied.
But honesty had been bred into Otto
for many generations ; moreover, he knew
that in time someone would enlighten
him.
“No, he didn’t,” Otto admitted. “We
took a risk. We didn’t know quite what
would happen when it rained, but we
knew it would be the Shire Council we’d
be up against if there was trouble,”
LEINERT thought it over and a
I v glint of humor came into his eyes.
“My word, you kidded that engineer
along all right, borrowing his gear and
then flooding one of his roads.” He
looked at Otto almost admiringly for a
moment, then his grievance settled down
on him again. “But that bloke Ridd
should know better. He is in the Gov-
ernment, and he should of stopped you.”
“It was all unofficial where he was con-
cerned,” Otto said hastily. “He only
helped me as a friend on his Saturday
afternoons off. I don’t want him to be
brought into this at all. But I’ll tell
you what I’ll do. If you don’t make a
complaint, the Shire will never know, be-
cause no one else uses your lane. How
would it be if I let you drive out through
my place? It’s a much better road and
a shorter way out.” _
“It’s a good way out,” Kleinert ad-
mitted, “but I still don’t like being flooded
out of my lane without a word. It isn’t
neighborly. I got my rights.” He looked
quite sullen and discontented again.
He wanted something more, Otto
knew, and then he remembered how he’d
asked again to be helped out of his
trouble with keeping Kennedy’s sheep
alive. That would be his idea of being
“neighborly.”
“I’d like to do something for you,”
Otto said craftily, “for not getting me
into trouble over this water. I’ll leave
it to you to name it, but there’s only
one exception. It mustn’t be unloading
any of your stock on to me. I’ve got
more on now than I ought to have; if
my poor old dad could see how bare
the place it, he’d be turning over every
day in his grave.”
A baffled dissatisfied look came into
Kleinert’s eyes that made Otto feel un-
bearably mean. He offered quickly:
“I could let you have a few bags of
oats to help keep those sheep alive.”
“A lot of trouble feeding them,”
Kleinert muttered, and Otto admitted that
it was compared with letting them find
their own grass. He felt better again
though; if the old cow was too lazy to
take advantage of the offer, then it was
his own fault if the sheep died. But
he still had the old cove discontented on
his hands. His father had always handled
him so easily without giving anything
away, either; a bit of “chiacking” and
good-humored bantering, and old Kleinert
would drive off, hanging his beard over
the back of the sulky as he shot back
some last laughing repartee. And here
all was heaviness. He couldn’t offer him
a fiver, either. There seemed to be a
lot of fun in the old days.
HT HEN out of the old rumble of con-
-1 versation that he’d listened to from
his darkened room, he remembered old
names of places—Frubing, Eudunda,
Tanunda and the names old Kleinert
dwelt on with such loving pleasure;
names of big grapegrowers and wine-
makers he’d worked for in South Aus-
tralia —Kramp and Zippelt and all the
rest of them. He tried to put on a
cordial neighborly smile as he said:
“I’ll tell you what I got the other day.
Something that the old dad used to get
and I hadn’t bothered about before. A
case of all the best from old Hienmann s
vineyard. There’s a lovely old rich purple
port I’d like you to try.”
Kleinert was out of the sulky and
striding beside Otto towards the house,
with a great flood of reminiscences
rolling out of him: “Eudunda, tan
unda ...” It went like an old poem.
Then he stopped suddenly and looked
towards his sulky. Otto caught on im-
mediately.
“You’d better put your mare in the
stubble,” he said. “That case will last
us for an hour or two, and shell ge
cold.”
Old Kleinert gave a deep, mellow
laugh. “What’s in it besides the oia
purple port?” he asked.


The Bulletin
Vol. 70—No. 3609
Wednesday, April 13, 1949
DEAD, BUT WONT LIE DOWN.
“A decapitated rooster in the United States has attracted world-wide attention by remaining ‘alive’ ; it is being fed with an eye-dropper.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Mao”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 252IBB; 'Phone, 8U597L
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
Mew Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
COMMUNISM AND FUNK.
Senator Ashley went to the Newcastle
coalfields last week to offset Mr. Menzies’s
preceding visit. The Liberal leader’s
ability to attract large audiences there
must have seriously disturbed the Govern-
ment, for as soon as the “Fixer” got to
Cessnock he proceeded to throw over-
board everything Ministers have been say-
ing in Parliament about Communists dur-
ing the past two years.
Six months ago, when Senator Ashley
last spoke at Cessnock, the Prime
Minister was with him, and their political
anxiety, though marked, was tuned to a
minor key. Stoppages could defeat the
“Labor” Government, the miners were
told, but would bring down the Coal
Board also; and how would the miners
like that? The Communist miners’ execu-
tive has made plain that it does not care
two hoots for the Coal Board, and it is
now launching a campaign to sweep away
every alternative to nationalisation of the
mines forthwith. Mr. Chifley told them
on that occasion—“vote [politically] for
whoever you like ; that is your business ;
but for God’s sake do your best for the
country.”
But Ministers are rather more interested
from the party viewpoint now. Full-page
Government advertisements appeared in
the northern fields’ newspapers to support
the “Fixer’s” opening meetings. One in
the Newcastle “Sun” declared: “Most of
the stoppages during the last 18 months
had little justification. Only a small
minority of stoppages involved em-
ployers.” “Fixer” Ashley told his Cess-
nock audience:— •
A coal strike in 1940 was responsible for
defeat of the Menzies Government. The
people said the Government was not getting
the best out of industry for the war effort.
They will be able to say the same [of
“Labor”] at the next elections unless some-
thing is done to end stoppages on matters
that can properly be dealt with by the
Arbitration Act.
The Tory Press and Mr. Menzies put
forward three reasons for petty stoppages—
a fear of building up a large coal-stock
pile, that high tax rates have robbed the
worker of incentive to produce, and that
Communists are stopping production for
political ends. There is no substance in
the first two contentions. There is, how-
ever, some evidence in favor of the third.
Mr. Menzies will doubtless feel greatly
obliged to Mr. Chifley’s lieutenant for this
commentary. “Fixer” Ashley’s tribute to
the miners’ power, by refusing coal, to
bring down any Government, means, of
course, not that the miners themselves
possess that power, but that a Govern-
ment which subordinates the national
interest to the dictates of the coalfields
bosses is intolerable to the community as
a whole.
Appeals to these coalfields union-bosses
to respect arbitration and industrial law
are waste of time. Communist union-
bosses’ defiance of all such tribunals has
just been registered afresh in the miners’
showdown against the A.W.U. in the
Kemeira tunnel dispute, and in the reac-
tion to the jail sentence imposed by the
Arbitration Court upon the member of
the Ironworkers’ executive who was actu-
ally by consent of that jellyfish body the
A.C.T.U. conducting the combined
unions’ basic-wage case before that court.
Two conciliation commissioners have
already either intervened or threatened to
intervene in the basic-wage hearing to
draw attention to the defiance of awards
shown by other Communist-bossed organi-
sations, the metal trades employees and
the Federated Engine-drivers. Whether
by direct action on the coalfields, or by
creating dissension throughout the body
of “Labor” by tactics meant to strike at
the Arbitration Court, the Communists
make it clear that they will not shrink
from splitting “the movement”—a sure
means of destroying the Chifley Govern-
ment at the elections—unless they get
what they want.
Further appeasement of these industrial
bushrangers would appear to be imprac-
ticable even by the Chifley Government.
“Fixer” Ashley’s most fatal remark at
his Cessnock meeting was that which ad-
mitted the justice of the charge against
the Government that “the Communists
are stopping production for political
ends.” Of course they are. Hitherto
these “ends” were not distinguishable by
Canberra from those of “Labor.” The
Communists were merely exponents of
“a political philosophy.” Their principles
were “based on the teachings of Christ”
(this was Acting Prime Minister Hollo-
way’s contribution). The “Labor” party
was big and broad enough to shelter the
Communists among all other varieties of
Left-wing opinion. Gone now is all the
smooth, evasive stuff put out by Ministers
in Parliament before the election shadows
of 1949 made themselves noticed. Gone
too is any hope in Canberra of union
response to Mr. Chifley’s appeals for more
production.
A.W.U, leaders have been trying to put
some ginger into the Chifley Government
ever since it stood idly by while the Com-
munists conducted their nine-weeks’
blockade of Queensland, Last Easter
A.L.P. president McAlpine warned
unions and Ministers alike that if the
conciliation system were not given a
chance to function, arbitration and em-
ployment would both be destroyed. His
colleague in the Victorian State branch
said on the same occasion:
There is on every side increasing evidence
of a plan for the obstruction of economic
recovery and for the promotion of social
disorder —a Communist plan preparatory to
the overthrow of democratic government.
And in Sydney president Junor of the
A.L.P. industrial groups’ conference —the
organisation encouraged by Mr. Chifley
himself —called (vainly) on the Federal
Government last June to set up an inquiry
into the activities of “the Healys,
Thorntons and Rowes” who “are tying up
industry after industry.”
We put “Labor” Governments in to
achieve our ends by peaceful political
methods. If Communists are allowed to
get away with their plans for chaos and
disruption, our Governments will fall.
Canberra at last feels that prophecy to
be coming true. Not enough coal is being
mined to keep going more than three-
quarters of Australian industry, even with
the severest restrictions on private users
of electric power and gas.
For the first 11 working weeks of
1949 the loss of coal output through
stoppages has been at the rate of over
1,700,00.0 tons for the full year. As for
nationalisation, refused by Mr. Chifley
as too expensive, Mr. Menzies gave the
rank-and-file something to think about
when he told them that the yearly profits
of all Australian coalmining companies
“would not total one-sixth of the wages
miners threw away during the same
period in unnecessary stoppages.” Even
“Fixer” Ashley admitted that “the stage
has been reached where the Government
is importing Japanese steel at £42 a ton
[against £l6 10s. for Australian] to make
dog-spikes for railway tracks.”
For interpretation of those “political
ends” of the Communists which “Fixer”
Ashley belatedly laments, he and his
leader might ponder the recent conclusions
of the United States Congressional Com-
mittee on “The Strategy and Tactics of
World Communism”:
Under inflationary conditions Com-
munists have no thought of any solution
but higher wages, no matter how many
- times the inflationary circle has already
revolved. They expect a smash and lack
any impulse to avoid it.... When a drive
for power may be feasible, the policy of
wrecking the existing economy by con-
stantly rising wages becomes intensified,
and finds its complement in the checking
of production through strikes....
Strikes in coalmines and on the railways
cause production losses far beyond the
sector of economy in which organisation
has to meet the test and strain of striking.
If the production losses can accelerate
inflation, permitting resort to new wage
demands in other industries, the Communist-
influenced labor front may advance in
echelon towards the economic and political
smash-up.
The Australian people are entitled to
a frank statement from Mr. Chifley on
I what action (if any) is to follow his
lieutenant’s admission that here also the
Communists are “stopping production for
political ends.” His Government is
marching towards defeat anyway. But at
least he might live up to his words to
the miners last September and, regardless
of votes, “do something for Australia.”
On U.N.O.'s Deathbed.
On the day after the representatives of
the 12 Western nations which have signed
the Atlantic Pact met in Washington for
the purpose, Dr. Evatt’s U.N.O. session
opened at Lake Success. The Atlantic
Pact meeting was an inspiring event, as
broadcast over the United States radio
—Australia’s A.B.C. treated it with dis-
dain. Not content with signing their
names, all the signatories made short
speeches, of which those by the delegates
from the United States, Canada, Den-
mark, Iceland, Italy, Norway, the United
Kingdom and Portugal were in English,
President Truman attended and spoke,
presumably to leave no doubt in minds
which wished to doubt about the whole-
hearted manner in which the United
States proposed to carry out its obliga-
tions.
The few Foreign Ministers who
attended the opening of U.N.O, stayed
but a little while and then departed,
leaving the field to deputies. Dr. Evatt
was allowed to retain his monopoly of
greatness, along with the Russians and
the representatives of the totalitarian
bloc. And no doubt he had ample time
to look back on the performance of his
nebula, now rapidly growing more
nebulous.
Backward glances can scarcely thrill
the appraiser of U.N.O.’s value and per-
formances, nor forward ones encourage
him in hope.
The “U.N- World,” a journal devoted
to U.N.O.’s doings, has set it down that
Dr, Evatt’s plan for producing the
millennium “induced the Soviet Union to
withdraw its troops from Iran,” though
as this is written a Russian regiment is
retiring to its own borders after having
attacked a Persian regiment and killed
some of its soldiery.
Again U.N.O. “induced France and
Britain to withdraw their troops from
Syria and Lebanon”—which, of course,
instantly plunged those “nations” into a
war with a fellow-member of U.N.0.,
conducted with such dan that one of them
has generated a sort of war within its own
structure and been seized by a dictator.
This would never have happened had
British and French troops remained, just
as the Palestine question would no doubt
have been settled had the British re-
mained there and all the meddlers of
U.N.O. kept out of the field. It would
not have been resolved without firmness
and bloodshed, but, at any rate, the ambit
of interference might have been confined
under arrangement to two perfectly sober
Governments, those of Britain and the
United States. Certainly there would
have been no Arab invasion while the
British flag flew in Palestine.
Next we are told that U.N.O. “stopped
the Indonesian war”—which would have
stopped months ago for good if there had
been no U.N.0., since the Dutch would
undoubtedly have dealt effectively with
the rabble of Japanese collaborators who
are U.N.O.’s and the Communist party’s
especial care. And the Dutch would
thereby have restored peace to Java.
It remains for history to assess how
much influence the actions of U.N.O. have
had in producing the present explosive
state of affairs in Burma, which was en-
couraged by the prototype situation in
the East Indies to break completely away
from Britain, under collaborator leader-
ship, and tear itself to pieces until a situa-
tion has been produced which benefits
nobody but the Communists and the
rabble.
Those who contemplate the times when,
as mentioned in the “World,” U.N.O.
“efficiency exercised its peace-keeping
functions on several significant occasions,”
are prone to wish that it had exercised
them on itself, since there is no more
turbulent body in the world than the
Security Council in full blast, unless it is
the U.N.O. Assembly in full blast.
Where it is sufficiently unanimous to
achieve something which it can construe
to its own advantage—such as when “its
intervention in Greek border-fighting was
instrumental in localising this strife
mainly within the confines of Greece it-
self”—the agencies which U.N.O. creates
partake of its own nature and renew the
quarrels they are meant to settle, some-
times becoming partisans. Its U.N.R.R.A.,
for instance, is notorious for the facilities
which it provided, free and under inter-
national protection, for numbers of
official Communist organisers to do their
work without molestation, and to carry
liaison with Balkan Communists to the
ends of the earth. One apostle sent from
Australia as a senior officer of
U.N.R.R.A. is now stumping Sydney
under the aegis of the Communist party,
organising support for the Greek rebels
among the Greek community and promot-
ing hatred of the British.
The meetings of the Atlantic signatories
and of the U.N.O. Assembly on suc-
ceeding days painted clearly the contrast
between the two bodies. Two Atlantic
Pact members, Britain and Portugal, had
been allies for over 400 years. One of
them, the most powerful at the moment,
the United States, had twice resisted
being drawn into world wars until sucked
in forcibly under unbearable provocation,
in World War II being actually attacked
before it moved.
The Atlantic Pact, while it has been
based on principles which have been laid
down for U.N.0., draws away the main
strength of U.N.0.; and the gatherings of
its supporters are never likely to be char-
acterised by such scenes of hate and de-
fiance as have marked some of the meet-
ings of U.N.O. under Dr. Evatt’s chair-
manship and in the year before he was
elevated. The Atlantic pations are not
bowing to any ideals or principles
originated by U.N.O. as a whole ; for the
framework and core of U.N.O.’s Charter
are contained in the Atlantic Charter,
which was given birth by the great
English-speaking leaders. The diver-
gences from it which have led to the
creation of the Atlantic Pact have been
by the Eastern bloc and its satellite coun-
tries, along with ambitious people like
our own representatives.
The Atlantic Pact has come into exist-
ence largely because the U.N.O. Assembly
has become a forum in which every-
thing that can usefully be said by the
leaders of peaceful nations has been
said without effect, and in which no
chance remains of doing anything con-
crete. Mr. Bevin could scarcely return
and usefully repeat his statement
made last session that “if the black
fury, the incalculable disaster of atomic
warfare, should fall upon us, one Power
by refusing its co-operation in the control
and development of these new great forces
for the good of humanity will alone be
responsible for the evils which may be
visited upon mankind.” It would scarcely
further the cause of world peace and
advance the principles of “united nation-
hood” if he were to submit again to the
abusive provocation of Vyshinsky, which
compelled him last September to declare
that the deplorable situation in Northern
Greece existed because “the Soviet spider
wants Greece in its web,” and that “if
there is a cold war, as Mr. Vyshinsky
says, we have not been in it except to
defend ourselves”; also, that it is the
“duty of those who started it to stop it.”
Utterances such as these seem to bring
U.N.O, to a point at which it has ceased
to be a mediator and peacemaking or-
ganisation and become a stadium.
In those circumstances U.N.O. is merely
providing an arena for the Charter’s
enemies, and Dr. Evatt and his satellites
are leading a forlorn hope. It would be
better for Australia if the Government
recognised this.
Somebody should tell Australia’s Dr.
Evatt the old story of the Army mule
which became bogged in a quagmire. To
all offers of help from fellow-beasts of the
field the sinking but obstinate animal
replies: “No, thanks, friend. I’m doing
fine. / shan’t be still here tomorrow.”
After which the narrator tells the denoue-
ment: “And it happened, folks, as the
mule said. It was not there on the
morrow. By its own unaided efforts it
had sunk another twenty feet before they
dug it out —dead.”
Pamphleteer in Flames.
Mr. Leslie Haylen, is burning.
And not alone. With him, smouldering,
toasting or roasting according to taste,
are “ ‘Labor’ journalists, lawyers, re-
formers, university students, trade-union
secretaries and plain people handy with
the pen.” The reason for their conflagra-
tion? “They will write on subjects which
will make them burn.”
So much is gleaned from an editorial —
headed by a photograph of Leslie Haylen,
M.H.R., and rounded off with the signa-
ture “Leslie Haylen”—which prefaces
Number One of “Tracts for the Times”
(edited by Leslie Haylen, M.H.R.), a
16-page pamphlet the colophon of which
includes the admission “published by Mr.
Leslie Haylen, M.H.R.” The tracts are
being published because “we must let
the people know the truth,” as the news-
papers “can’t, or won’t, tell the truth
any more.”
To bring them the “truth” he starts
off his pamphlet with a fake news-item
beginning:
The Liberal-Country party in Australia,
, in association with the trading banks, have
announced the blueprint for the next de-
pression—with an army of unemployed
totalling 30,000.
As the theme of the pamphlet is an
alleged plot to “sack eight Australians
in every 100,” the figure 30,000 seems
rather modest; perhaps a nought got
burnt off the end of it.
Apart from the foregoing paragraph,
which Mr. Haylen admits that “truthful
enough as it is, didn’t appear in any
newspaper,” the only evidence adduced
to support the story of the plot is a
summary of Professor Hytten’s much-
publicised paper on full employment, de-
livered in Hobart before the Australian
and New Zealand Association for the
Advancement of Science. The Professor
expressed the opinion that complete
stability was neither attainable nor desir-
able, stated some of the problems of full
employment, and said that in the best
years of the 1920’s there was an un-
employed rate of six to eight per cent.,
and there was a period when employment
was fairly easy for those who really
sought it. “There was neither scarcity of
labor nor need for anyone to be out
of work long.”
Professor Hytten’s statements have
made Mr. Haylen bum. On them he has
built up a case against the Opposition
parties. His reasoning seems to go like
this; The professor is a “brains-truster
in the pay of the banks.” Therefore his
address to fellow-scientists represents the
calculated policy of the private banks.
And since the Opposition parties oppose
bank-nationalisation it is their policy, too.
The thought does not merely make Mr.
Haylen smoulder. He positively bursts
into flame.
Drunk with success over their victory at
the Prices Referendum, which removed con-
trols and allowed Big Business to . sw * nc “ e
the Australian worker of half of his hard-
won wages each week, these moral highway-
robbers are all set to tnake their hnai


attack on the workers’ unions and rule the
nation by Fear.
Taking Fear as his theme, Mr. Haylen
then harks back to the Depression, for
which he blames those who “have their
counterparts in employer-organisations
and in the Liberal and Country parties
today.” These counterparts, but for the
A.L.P., “would lay idle 25 per cent, of all
unionists, as they did in the last big de-
pression.”
Although Mr. Haylen is burning like
wildfire by this time, he seems to have
become ignited rather late in the day.
His colleagues, Messrs. Ward and Calwell,
have been burning themselves up for
years in an endeavor to prove by constant
repetition that Australia’s part of the
world-wide depression of the ’thirties was
caused by the anti-“ Labor” parties. It is
possible they have by now convinced each
other. It is rather unlikely that they have
convinced Mr. Haylen.
The truth seems to be that Mr. Leslie
Haylen, M.H.R., burns too much. The
newspapers are run by “crooked misan-
thropes” who, with “warped genius,”
stoop to “calculated villainies.” An
Opposition electoral victory would mean
“an economic catastrophe more extensive
than any Australia has ever faced” —this
because “the Liberals, behind the scenes,
are committed to a policy to sack eight
out of every 100 workers in Australia.”
Mr. Haylen wrote that, but it is most
unlikely that he really believes it. If, in
carrying out his avowed task “to let the
people know the truth,” he had used
instead of a burning pen a burning
tongue, it would have scorched a large
hole in his cheek.
PLAIN ENGLISH
The Return of Menzies.
Having, in 16 days, addressed meetings
and mingled with people in Newcastle,
Kurri Kurri, Maitland, Muswellbrook,
Aberdeen, Lithgow, Bathurst, Orange,
Dubbo, Coonamble, Coonabarabran,
Goulbum, Queanbeyan and their ajacent
neighborhoods, R. G. Menzies climbed
into the ring at Sydney Stadium last
Wednesday night to find about 7000
people waiting to hear him. Mellower
and somewhat slimmer than before, but
with none of his eloquence, wit .and
courage missing, he was as fresh as a
daisy after a tour that would have re-
duced most men to a pulp.
Of all the places visited, it remained
for Sydney to witness the spectacle of the
leader of His Majesty’s Opposition in the
Commonwealth Parliament made the
target of organised bunches of Com-
munist larrikins. Obviously drilled for
their parts, they sat in groups of a dozen
or so about the Stadium and howled as
dingoes do when they encounter some-
thing too good for them individually or
as a pack. Not that their howling
bothered Menzies. With a telling wit that
changed some of the hpwls into yelps, he
told the crowd what he has been telling
everybody—that the next election must
be a; straightout decision between
socialism and free democracy as we know
it.
He could afford to laugh at Com-
munists. Wherever he went in the 18-day
tour —he ended it at Wollongong last
Thursday—he was well received. In in-
dustrial areas, in the coal towns, in the
country, people went to hear him, to see
him and to sum him up for themselves.
It was the design of the Liberal party to
dispel the canard that its political leader
was aloof and distant from the people,
and he dispelled it. So much so that, in
attempting to follow him and regain some
credit for the “Labor 7 party, Senator
Ashley appeared rather like a damp squib
following a rocket.
If Menzies could afford to laugh at the
Communists, neither the Communists nor
the Federal “Labor” party can afford to
laugh at him or the effect of his tour.
Something like a political renaissance
occurred, not only in the places visited,
but among thousands of people who fol-
lowed the press reports of the tour. The
effect on “Labor” supporters and Com-
munists can best be gauged by the remarks
of their own people in two widely-
separated places. In Launceston (Tas.)
a Wharfie’s Union delegate named Moore
declared:
This Menzies is going to get a lot of
votes. He will go into a lion’s den, which
is more than some of the Labor party will
do.
Launceston Trades Hall was so alarmed
that it will stage a campaign of opposi-
tion against a Menzies visit to Tasmania ;
an open confession of fear if there ever
was one. And W, Crook, president of the
Northern Miners’ Federatipn (N.S.W.), re-
marked :
Our friend Bob Menzies is putting on a
good act. We must do something to
counteract it. Bob is getting far too good
a hearing from people like us.
Even more significant is the sudden de-
velopment, coinciding with the Menzies
tour, of AJ-JP- and. Federal “Labor”
anxiety to keep clear of Communists, evi-
dent in the frantic efforts of the A.C.T.U.
to stop the rash of strikes threatened by
Communists when their leaders are dealt
with by the courts, the hurried state-
ment of Acting Attorney-General
Senator McKenna that the Chifley Gov-
ernment would not intervene in the Mc-
Phillips case, and the A.C.T.U. haste to
dissociate itself from Thornton’s trip to
Moscow.
Menzies’s tour was described as “taking
Liberalism to the people.” It did more.
It cheered the people. It revealed that the
people, “workers” and otherwise, are one
in their loyalty to Australia, their hatred
of Communism, their fear of Socialism
and their readiness to meet a courageous
man half-way. And if it hasn’t set the
Federal “Labor” crowd thinking furiously
they must be blind and deaf to the
portents, . >
Lost Memory Restored.
Another Tasmanian “Labor” Minister
has got into trouble and has been obliged
to resign from the Cabinet. Whether,
following precedent, he will seek re-
election remains to be seen. His reason
for resignation was “to save the Govern-
ment from embarrassment.”
Mr. Aylett was Minister for Housing.
Last November a Liberal member of the
Legislative Council asked a question con-
cerning stocks of building material held
by the State Agricultural Bank. The
figures given in reply were lower than
those supplied by the bank for answer to
the question* and on publication the
manager of the bank formally told the
Minister so.
Thereafter “rumors arose” based on an
assumption that the Minister was open to
“receive inducement in consideration of
action by him- to expedite supplies of
controlled building material to any
person.” These words are from the
motion in the Legislative Assembly for a
select committee of inquiry proposed by
the Minister himself, who, pressed earlier
by questions, said: “I ask members to
realise that it is not easy for a member
to recall on>a moment’s notice certain
happenings on a day that is past.”
The same motion also proposed inquiry
into whether the Minister “deliberately
supplied particulars which were in-
accurate.” The leader of the Opposition
proposed an amendment to the motion,
which was defeated on the Speaker’s
casting vote, and the Assembly then
accepted an Independent member’s,
amendment which left out “deliberately”
from the reference and also the “rumors.”
The Minister’s memory had revived suffi-
ciently for him to say ambiguously that
“the inaccuracies were caused by taking
the figures supplied by telephone.”
When the committee took evidence Mr.
Aylett, being (as mover of the motion)
one of its members, “withdrew at the first
sitting before any discussion took place.”
Giving evidence, he overcame his “diffi-
culty in remembering certain happenings
on a day that was past,” and said that he
had altered the official figures in order to
assist passage of a bill in the Council, that
Cabinet “frequently discussed alternative
answers to questions,” and that on this
occasion “Cabinet was not meeting, and
so he answered the questions himself.”
This revival of memory may have been
assisted by the evidence of Henry Des-
mond Leitch, “formerly secretary to the
Minister,” who deposed:
He obtained from the Agricultural Bank
the figures for the reply to the question.
There was a telephone conversation between
the Minister and Mr. L. G. Morgan, ad-
ministrative officer in the bank’s housing
division, the Minister wanting some altera-
tion in the figures. Later, “in a section of
the office which was partitioned off,” he
“got snatches of a conversation during
another call which had come from the
bank. It seemed that the manager of the
bank would not allow any alteration of
the figures.”
The Minister then dictated a reply to
Leitch, and in it the figures differed from
those supplied by the bank. Subsequently,
when it was known a select committee was
being set up, there was a telephone con-
versation between him [Leitch] and the
Minister, in which Mr. Aylett said —“You
stick by me, mate.”
This the Minister’s in-
dignation. He said he didn’t use those
words. What he said was —“You stick
to the truth, mate, and you’ll be all right.”
In later evidence Mr. Leitch said the
Minister told him “to put the file copy
away where no one would get it.”
All of which suggests that “Labor”
Ministers in Tasmania are all very un-
sophisticated, although sharing fully the
general belief of “Labor” in office that
the public will stand anything.
Show in Sydney.
It began at the Moore Park address last
Saturday in beautiful weather and with
a good chance of establishing new
records in entries and attendances.
Mr. McGirr, the Sydney Premier,
seemed to think it was a grand chance
to get his tram and bus systems out of
their financial morass : price of a return
ticket by tram or bus from the city to the
Showground was bumped up to Is. 3d.,
though file only advantage the “specials”
gave over ordinary trams —by which one
could get there for 4d, or 5d. —was to put
the passenger 200 yards nearer the gates.
However, the show spirit seems capable of
standing anything, and the crowds weren’t
deterred.
There is nothing new about the Sydney
Show, yet each year it manages somehow
to be new. The purely rural side,
of course, has steadily become secondary
to what might be called the vaudeville
side, for it is the ring events, the side-
shows, the machinery displays and the
exhibition of things new in science and
invention that draw the crowds. For
every one who gazes admiringly upon the
champion Hereford bull in his stall, a
thousand jostle to see a jet-engine or a
television display. That is only to be ex-
pected in this age, though for many there
is comfort in the Hereford, for he, like
the prize honey and the champion potato,
proves that the core of the country—the
land industries —does not suffer violent
changes, and that, amidst tfie fume and
fret of cities, the uncertainty of politics
and the suspicions of nations, there are
men who are still concerned solely with
feeding and clothing the people. In the
process they succeed notably in main-
taining our economic stability.
The R.A.S. of N.S.W., like its sister
societies in other cities and towns, very
sensibly eschews politics. It doesn’t matter
to the R.A.S, what particular party is in
power; it knows it has the support of
everybody, and is doing a work that
benefits everybody. All the same, to in-
trude politics for a moment, the show is
•a vast and impressive display of what
private enterprise can achieve, and anyone
can be pardoned for wondering what sort
of a show a socialised State could put on.
The Sydney Show will perform until
next Tuesday. By that time countless
human relationships will have been estab-
lished, many old friends reunited, many
people stimulated to think about their
country. One of these days an Australian
novelist may write a very good book with
the show as the, orchestra and the stage
for his characters. Meantime, it is fitting
that its final day should be given to those
who keep it going—the children. It is the
young who, for the most part, keep their
elders interested in the show, which is
probably the reason why the show is
always young.
Cripps's Blue Ruin.
The outstanding feature of the latest
Cripps Budget in Britain is not so much
the continued high taxation —which the
people had been told long ago must con-
tinue till they can turn the corner in their
trade recovery—but the admission from
the Chancellor that henceforth and for
ever “it is quite impossible to reduce
taxation so long as... .social services are
produced on the present scale.”
At the same time he admits that the
sources of taxation are being depleted,
and on top of last year’s capital levy he
is now, with increased death duties —stiff
enough already, in all conscience—psing
up savings which can never be replaced.
Taxation is fatally crippling the nation
to meet any eventuality of war.
The increased cost of foodstuffs by
withdrawal of some subsidies, now re-
duced slightly to £46s,ooo,ooo—which is,
on an Australian population basis, double
those which Mr. Chifley was paying
when he turned ' sour following the
loss of the Prices Referendum —
has chiefly upset the British householder,
and already the electors are retorting in
smashing defeats of “Labor” candidates
at the first series of municipal elections.
These elections will continue throughout
the country for another fortnight yet.
Of the astronomical figures of revenue
collected nearly £4,500,000,000 this
year—no less than 40 per cent, goes to
maintain social services and amenities,
public works and nationalised services.
Yet this cost, especially the social service
expenditure, is still rising: for the
National Health (“free” medicine and
doctoring) scheme the estimates in
1948-49 (the year just past) were
£145,592,000 sterling, and have bolted to
£260,000,000 in the current year. That
equals nearly £6 a head for every man,
woman and child in the nation. The com-
parative cost for Australia would be
£45,000,000; and yet Senator McKenna
says the national scheme here will cost
only £A 10,000,000—£6,000,000 for “free”
doctoring and £4,000,000 for “free”
dentistry.
In plain language—and the Cripps
statement was nearly as plain as this —the
ridiculous and wasteful national health
scheme is bankrupting Britain. Brisbane
“Courier-Mail” quotes that London
“Economist” as commenting that the only
alternative “seems to be the outright re-
peal of one or more major social schemes
to avoid economic strangulation.”
There are no observers in Britain, or
out of it, today who, scrutinising the
staggering levies upon the British tax-
payer and the consequences already
appearing, do not declare that socialisa-
tion there is spelling ruin in the open
sight of eveiybody. The Chifley Govern-
ment has hitherto ignored the warnings
from N.Z. and from Britain of what
happens to “free” doctoring ; in the light
of the latest revelations Parliament must
insist that the McKenna scheme, already
“delayed for a time,” be drastically re-
vised.
"Influencing 11 Governments.
Federal Arbitration Court Bench has
set May 17 for the hearing of the basic-
wage case, Mr, Justice Kelly remarking
—after reading out a list of current stop-
pages in which claimant unions are in-
volved —that the court would not tolerate
direct action to obtain demands. He
added, “I hope the attention of the claim-
ants will be called to this, and that the
position will be clarified.”
He also granted application for the
A.C.T.U. to appear, but said “it will
remain to be seen who represents the
A.C.T.U.”
It was at this sitting that the court
found the Communist McPhillips, who
had been appearing for the A.C.T.U.,
guilty of contempt of court for saying,
among other things, that the case “will
be determined outside the court,” and
sentenced him to a month’s imprisonment
in Long Bay, Sydney.
Incidentally, McPhillips’s counsel sub-
mitted that the phrase “would be deter-
mined outside the court” meant
that the workers would attempt to influence
the Government in the basic-wage case as
was done in the 40-hour-week case.
The public now hears from the jockey’s
mouth, so to speak, how the ‘.‘Govern-
ment’s” pleadings in that case originated.
Premier Hollway told the Victorian
Leg, Assembly last week that the “Labor”
Government which was in office in the
State at the time spent £14,000 in legal
costs for backing-up the 40-hour case,
and it had resulted in raising the State’s
annual wage-bill by £2,000,000 to
£3,000,000.
And all done, as McPhillips’s counsel
reveals, by the timely ordering of strikes
or votes in political blackmail of “Labor”
Governments!
Poetic Justice in Transport.
The transport-“strangulation” policy of
the State Governments —a policy de-
signed either to cripple private road-
transport or make it pay heavy penal,
taxes in order that State railways can
continue to be slow, unreliable and run
further into debt —has bounced back on
the Queensland one.
Water- and gas-piping have been ur-
gently needed in Queensland for a long
time. The other week the Hanlon
Government managed to get an order for
2500 tons of it filled at Newcastle
(N.S.W.). But getting it to Brisbane was
another matter. Ships were scarce, the
railways could transport only part of the
load, and in slow time. So the Hanlons
hired a fleet of 30 road-trailer units,
ranging from five to ten tons capacity.
They left Newcastle one night and made
the' 600-miles trip in three days.
It was, said a Brisbane paper, “one of
the largest motor-freight convoys ever to
arrive from Newcastle.” And the Hanlon
Government had to pay the N.S.W. road-
taxes, the road-permit fees and other
costs, though it will sell the piping to
users at a cost based on sea-freights. It
would have been a lesson to Queens-
landers on what road-transport has to
put up with from State Governments if
they were charged the true price for the
stuff.
As it is, they were lucky to get the
piping, which was destined for other
States but could not be moved because
of transport delays. Transport delays!
The way to freedom for transport in
this country is for the States to alter
their antiquated, narrow outlook on road-
transport —an outlook that in 1939 saw
Australia go into a motorised war with
its army still*relying heavily on horse-
transport —and give the “go” signal to
modern and speedy methods.
"Heavy" Betting.
End of the first section:
Taking of evidence having been concluded
after 44 days, the Ward inquiry stands
adjourned till April 28, when barristerial ad-
dresses are to begin. It will, of course, be
some time, perhaps months,, before Justice
Ligertwood is ready with his report.
Not since the Commonwealth was established
has a single royal commissioner had so exacting a
job. On one point all the parties would agree—
his Honor’s conduct of the inquiry has been
marked by uncommon ability. No situation
that has arisen, no “scene,” no dispute on the
floor of the tribunal has found him wanting
or in the slightest degree flurried. He has
been calm throughout and always on the alert
his own interrogations, invariably pertinent,
have been a feature of the proceedings all along.
Last week “Bill” Urquhart described himselt-
in the box as “the innocent victim of a wicked
concoction.” As to punting, he declared that m
1944 “many people” were “pestering him
because he was a National Sendee officer and
because of his association with Mr. Ward (about
(i Continued on next page *)


ms.
They satisfy
in everyway • • •
CRAVENA’
mack specially to
plevent sote throats
A
6659 E-R
CARRERAS LIMITED OVER ISO YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
which, he averred, there was never anything
improper), so he decided to take refuge on the
racecourse, and became “a heavy better.” To this
five bookmakers testified; Bill, they said, wagered
with them in “fifties” and “hundreds,” and that
on the Flat. And in 1944-45, he had 13 con-
secutive “good” days, winning £3OOO. But the
luck turned and “Bill” had to “curtail my
betting activities.”
A Sydney accountant, I. W. Kerr, deputed
to go into the assets of the Urquharts and
Wards, deposed that the Urquhart “betting
activities” had indeed been “heavy.” From
“early in 1945” to July, 1946, Urquhart’s bank
account at Newtown showed a turnover of
£29,000, though there was never more than
£3OOO in credit. In July, 1946, when the account
was closed, the balance was “small.” The
largest deposits in after December 3, 1945 (the
date of the elder Garden’s allegation that he
had handed a “roll” of £5OOO to Urquhart for
Ward) were £219 on December 17, 1945, and
£370.
The assets of Urquhart and his wife, held
in five bank accounts and at Pincombes, the
typewriter people, the accountant reckoned at
£3914. Those of the Wards, cpmprising Com-
monwealth loan holdings and savings-bank
balances and excluding the Ward house and
bits of land, previously mentioned by the
Minister, the man of figures calculated at
£8924, of which £2OOO was subscribed to Com-
monwealth loan in 1945 and £l5OO in 1948.
There was no indication that Ward had received
any financial or other benefit from Pincombes
(whose principal, a lady, had, it was stated in
other evidence, been advised by her house-
keeper to try to get Ward for the concern as
general-manager) and his assets had been “built
up gradually”—for 18 years he had drawn “a
substantial salary.”
A late witness was a Sydney “Sun” reporter,
T, E. Breen, who swore that at the first court
proceedings in January, 1948, “Jock” Garden’s
counsel, Simon Isaacs, had said to him “They
will never fit this on ‘Jock’,” and again, on the
suggestion that there might be a conspiracy
charge, “If they go on with that we are going
to say Ward is in it,” whereupon “Mr. Isaacs
winked and walked away.” It was stated
on the closing day that Mr. Isaacs had referred
the evidence to the Bar Council. A proposal
that he should be cross-examined at the inquiry
failed on the score of privilege.
POLICTICAL POINTS
Not a bit the wiser from the half-
hearted response to their call for a protest
strike against the Sharkey prosecution,
the Comrades are trying the same tactics
over the sentence of a month’s jail for
contempt passed by the Full Arbitra-
tion Court on L. J. McPhillips, of
the Ironworkers’ Union. The Red bosses
of the Sydney ironworkers first “recom-
mended,” then ordered, their followers to
come out and stay out until the insolent
McPhillips was released. Few obeyed
the recommendation, but after the order
was issued flying-squads of Comrades
visited men on the jobs, calling them
scabs and strike-breakers. By the week-
end most of the men had reluctantly
ceased work. In Newcastle a meeting of
4000 ironworkers showed strong resent-
ment of Communist dictation, knocked-
down the local secretary and took charge
of the meeting. They refused to obey
the strike order, as did their Brisbane
colleagues. In Melbourne and Adelaide
the ukase was watered-down to a one-
day strike for Tuesday, and other Com-
munist-dictated unions ordered similar
action. The Watersiders’ executive
ordered a 24-hour stoppage throughout
Australia for Monday, and Judge Kirby,
of the Stevedoring Commission, went on
the air to urge wharfies to disobey the
command, pointing out that he would
be forced to take drastic action if it was
obeyed. The miners’ central executive
and the Seamen’s Union sang a Red duet.
On Monday there were further signs
of revolt against the men of Moscow.
At a mass-meeting 6000 ironworkers
decided to resume on Tuesday. All
but one mine on the southern coal-
field were idle, but eleven pits were
working in the north and several on the
western field. The majority of Sydney
wharfies obeyed their masters, but several
hundred turned up for duty. Melbourne
and Adelaide watersiders called off the
stoppage, and Adelaide ironworkers “de-
ferred” the strike called for Tuesday. On
the Brisbane waterfront, after a stormy
meeting, the Comrades got the decision
“on the voices.” It is the only way they
ever get the decision, and if these demon-
stration strikes make the Chifleys and
Ashleys realise that the secret ballot is
the key to industrial peace they will not
have been a complete loss after all,.
Anthony Eden told London pressmen
he was much impressed by the fact that
in Australia the State Governments
seemed just as important as the Com-
monwealth Government. Now what
Federal Minister could have told him
that?
The Hanlon Government has inflicted
upon Queensland three bills which clearly
display what “Labor” thinks about the
rights of the people. Its Electoral Districts
Bill to increase the House from 62 to
75 members is loaded to favor “Labor,”
its Abattoirs Bill gives the Government
the right to seize property or cattle at
will, and there is the Traffic Bill which
makes the passenger the offender and
liable to up to £lOO fine if an inspector
decides he is the extra one on an over-
loaded tram. All this from a Govern-
ment which won office on a minority
vote!
A Stockrington (N.SJW.) man, listening
to Senator Ashley, asked permission to
speak, was granted it, and said the
miners had no confidence in the Joint
Coal Board. If his view was correct'the
miners and the general public have at
least one thing in common.
David Rivett and Professor Richard-
son have announced that they will not be
available for appointment to the execu-
tive of C.5.1.R.0. Their going is a blow
to the organisation, but it will be
softened a little by the knowledge that
that noted scientist Donald Mountjoy is
available; last week he lost the “Labor”
preselection for the Swan seat which he
lost in 1946. Perhaps he was lucky. Mr.
Dedman can now renew his appoint-
ment, but had he won the ballot and
subsequently lost the election he might
have found that the job was no longer in
Deddy’s gift.
It is time the A.C.T.U. made up its
mind just where it stands in relation to
Communism. It has decided to ask the
Arbitration Court “at an appropriate
time” to release McPhillips from jail on
the grounds that his imprisonment “is
preventing the proper preparation of the
unions’ case for an increased basic wage.”
If the A.C.T.U. really believes in arbitra-
tion it cannot continue to retain as its
advocate a man who holds arbitration in
contempt.
Menzies’s handling of the organised
hooliganism of the Communists at his
Sydney Stadium meeting raised conjec-
ture as to how Chifley would have re-
acted to such a situation. It was idle
speculation. The “political philosophers”
would never subject Chif. to such an
attack; they have no reason to fear him.
Almost as many reasons have been
advanced for men becoming gambling
addicts as for taking to drink, but a new
one cropped up at the New Guinea timber
inquiry. Bill Urquhart, former National
Service officer at Enmore and now, on
Mr. Ward’s recommendation, managing-
director of a typewriter concern which
had first offered Mr. Ward the job, was
being questioned on his betting trans-
actions. He said that in 1944 many
people were “pestering” him because he
was a National Service officer and be-
cause of his association with Ward. “The
only place I could escape these people
was on the racecourse, and I became a
heavy better.” There was a happier end-
ing to Urquhart’s story than to most
punting yarns. In “thirteen consecutive
winning days” he won £3OOO. In two
Saturdays after this he lost £lOOO and
“thought it was time to curtail his bet-
ting,” After that, presumably, he took
the risk of being “pestered.”
At the conference of the Associated
Chambers of Commerce in Hobart a
speaker advocated the scrapping of the
Income Tax Assessment Act. He de-
scribed it as “a thing of shreds and
patches,” and said it was impossible for
a layman to know whether he had been
correctly taxed or not. The taxation jig-
saw puzzle is overdue for simplification,
though the effect of such a course on the
taxation officials would be interesting.
There would be less of ’em needed, but
there would also be less inducement for
them to leave the service in order to set-
up as “taxation experts.”
The other Premiers have to be up
mighty early in the morning to get ahead
of S.A.’s Premier Playford. He’d already
made a name for getting the ear of
British industrialists who came here look-
ing for factory-sites and so forth, and
bless us if he hasn’t diddled Queensland’s
Mr. Hanlon out of a talking-picture. The
opus—to be called “Bitter Springs”—was
to have been shot in Queensland. Mr.
Playford got films made of “location-
sites” in die Flinders Range, and con-
vinced the film-makers that S.A. can pro-
vide the scenery for both “Bitter Springs”
and the Ealing version of Boldrewood’s
“Robbery Under Arms.”
London “Daily Telegraph” forecasts
that, coinciding with the declaration of
Eire as a republic on April 18, there may
be announced a treaty with -the United
States, which would give Eire “most
of the advantages of membership of the
Atlantic Pact without actually joining.”
Just how Uncle Sam could give these ad-
vantages without consulting the other 11
parties to the pact is not clear, but on
current form anything Eire can get with-
out incurring obligations it will cheer-
fully take.
The latest of Mr. Chifley’s blueprints
is one to increase the output of beef in
Australia by 400,000 tons a year,
within 10 years, by development of the
Northern Territory. Immense expendi-
ture is to be involved for new roads,
motor-transport and water-supply—to
say nothing of meat-workers —and an in-
crease in meat-prices is to be demanded
from Britain to help pay for the scheme.
It wouldn’t be that the Government is
putting up an excuse to enable it to
import enough roadworkers into the N.T.
at election-time to defeat the sitting ex-
p.-0.-w. Federal member who has become
so obnoxious to it that it is determined
to get him out at any cost next election,
would it? Or wouldn’t it?
Heartened by an unbroken run of by-
election successes, the Attlee Government
was toying with the idea of springing a
snap election this year instead of waiting
until the end of its five-year term. The
local-government elections, in which they
lost over 300 seats, may make them think
better of it. Labor is inclined to blame
Cripps’s unpopular Budget for the set-
back, although some of the defeats
occurred before the Chancellor delivered
his Budget speech. The Socialists are in
a quandary. If they defer the elections,
in the hope that ill-feeling raised by the
budget will die down, they have to face
the probability that the dawning realisa-
tion of the straits to which four years of
Socialist rule have brought the country
may grow into something that will over-
whelm them.
Lang’s “Century,” commenting on
Thornton’s pilgrimage to Moscow: “He
is certainly not engaged on the affairs of
the Ironworkers’ Federation while he is
abroad.” Nor is Thornton engaged very
much on the affairs of the ironworkers
when he is at home. Like his brother-
Reds who have intrigued their way to the
box-seats in the miners’, watersiders’ and
seamen’s unions, his only interest in the
workers is as tools for implementing the
designs of Moscow.
Tasmania’s “Labor” 'Government,
which holds office on the sufferance of
two Independents, nearly slid down the
see-saw last week. A Select Committee
found that Housing Minister Aylett had
given Parliament inaccurate information
by altering figures given him by his de-
partment. Aylett’s defence more or less
boiled down to: “Well, don’t we all?”
His colleagues blushed with indignation
at the suggestion, but Aylett’s resignation
saved Cabinet’s bacon —for the time
being.
Financial talks are to begin immedi-
ately between Britain and Israel. This
possibly accounts for the anxiety of the
British Government to discover the
whereabouts of mystery man Stanley,
alias Wulkan.
The Communists seem to be out after
“martyrdom.” The day after the Arbi-
tration Court sent McPhillips down for
a month, Comrade Wright, of the Sheet
Metal Workers’ Union, stuck his head
out in an address to the A.C.T.U. Of
the Federal Government’s streamlined
Conciliation Commissioners he said
“They are just a lot of strike-breakers.”
Asked by reporters to clarify his state-
ment, he explained that the A.C.T.U.
“asked for concilation committees. In-
stead of that they got 15 dilutee Judges
whose main activity seems to be strike-
breaking.” In saying that, Wright was
inviting prosecution for contempt, and he
must have been aware of it. He should
not be disappointed.
Another exuberant Labor politician.
Minister for the Interior Johnson, has
added a fairy annexe to Chifley’s Golden
Age by announcing that hydroelectric
power from Tasmania would soon be
brought across Bass Strait to serve the
needs of Victorian farmers. The only
power brought across in that way pre-
viously has been the tiny current required
to work the old Flinders-Georgetown
cable laid by the now-defunct Eastern
Extension Co. Compared with the
harnessing of Victoria’s own potentially
abundant hydroelectric power lying latent
in its own mountains, the bringing of the
Tasmanian juice across the water would
be like using a bulldozer to bust a peanut.
When the A.C.T.U. announced its £lO
basic wage objective the two longest faces
in N. S. Wales did not belong to the
presidents of the Employers’ Federation
and the Chamber of Manufactures. They
were owned by “Labor” stalwarts McGirr
and O’Sullivan as they tried -to tot up
what the 10 quid would mean in terms of
increased tram-fares and swollen railway
deficits.
The Australian Legation in Chile has
been closed down ; the reason given: To
save dollars. A swag of dollars would
have been saved if it had never been
opened, and it would never have been
opened but for Our Foreign Policy’s
ridiculous bid for “leadership of the small
nations,”
North Kew (Vic.) branch of the A.L.P.
is launching a new campaign for “youth
in politics.” At the Easter Conference it
will urge that nominations for Federal,
State and municipal elections will be re-
stricted to persons under 55; sitting
members being allowed to stick to their
jobs, if they can, until 65. Just what Mr.
Chifley, 65 next year, has done to offend
North Kew remains a mystery.
The progressiveness of the McGirr
Government in the matter of Sydney
transport is now revealed. By steadily
making the trams too dear to travel upon,
the Government brings their disappear-
ance from the streets ever so much closer.
Not only is the old “master-drover” of
the north dying out, but most of his men
have headed for the big money at Mt. Isa
mines, so the Vestey people propose to
increase the use of road-train units to
get cattle to where they want them. Thus
does the internal-combustion engine
invade the last stronghold of the horse-
man.


TIME SOMEBODY DID.
“Mr. Menzles, denouncing Communism, has been well received in industrial areas.”
“If you’re going to take on that dirty Communist dog, Bob, let ME hold your coat”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“V. Cluse”: Through infancy, child-
hood, youth and maturity I have had
pushed upon me every Easter Monday
morning a steamy, soggy mass of half-
cooked dough and. raisins called a hot-
cross bun. In my youth we used to sing
about the things, a foolish ditty that
went:
Hot-cross buns, the old woman runs,
First to the beer-shop and then to the buns.
I can recall no occasion on which the in-
digestible mass appealed to me, and more
than once have I experimented with it
as a stopper of leaks, a modelling-clay
and a way to offend trusting dogs. When
staying with friends I’ve shoved buns
secretly behind the bookcase or into the
recess behind the fire, and on one memor-
able Easter I used one to bung up the
exhaust-pipe of the motor-car in which
a rival proposed to drive the girl of my
choice. Now, living in Sydney, relief
has apparently come at last. The Bun-
makers’ Union is demanding double-time
for Easter work, and it looks as though
the city will be bunless. I’m against
strikes and excessive demands, but if the
union wants someone to carry its banner
it can call on me.
* * * *
“Zake”: Those brass-throated, leather-
lunged gents who used to stand in im-
posing uniforms outside fillum palaces
and beef out the virtues of the current
celluloid opus appear to be a dying race
—at least my eyes and ears haven’t been
assailed by them of late. The last voice
of the tribe that I heard boomed in
front of a tumbledown Sydney flea-
hatchery that inveigles the unwary with
blud-’n’-guts and the horse-opera. The
uniformed one, whose accent would have
been splendid for sharpening the scythe
on, had just finished declaiming through
vocal chords that were shrieking for lubri-
cation the splendors of the “sportin’ pro-
gramme” when a couple of gum-chewers
in skirts hearkened, then went over and
examined the posters. Shortly they
approached the spruiker. “Ain’t anything
about a racin’ or boxin’ pitcher there,”
one of them protested. “One’s a murder
fillum an’ the other’s a hoof-an’-croon.”
The spruiker looked at them scornfully.
“I said the s’portin’ pikcher, not a
sportin’ one,” he rasped. “S’portin’,
meanin’ to s’port, like the elastic does y’r
thingummies.”
* * * *
“Findy”; So the Yanks are finding
they can’t coax even hungry Englishmen
to eat dried eggs (B. 6/4/’49)? No Digger
will be surprised at that. At Hume camp,
Albury, in 1942, we had the nauseous
stuff dished up regularly for breakfast;
most of it went straight into the pig-tins.
Albury pigs are no more choosey than
the rest of their tribe, but they drew the
line at powdered-egg, and that is why
fatigue-parties used to take the camp
refuse to a disused mine-shaft half-way
along the road to the Hume Weir. Dining
out at the house of an Albury friend I
was doing a routine whinge on Army
menus, and my hymn of hate on the
subject of powdered-egg was winning me
the wholehearted sympathy of my hostess.
That was until she asked, “And when
you throw it away, what do you have for
breakfast?” “Well,” I said, “there’s
mashed potato.” She seemed rather
amazed. “Mashed potato for breakfast!”
Innocently J burbled on. “Oh, yes.
There’s always plenty of mashed potato.
We can fill up on that.” Sympathy
vanished in a flash. “For breakfast?”
she said accusingly, “We can’t even get
potatoes for Sunday dinner!”
* * * *
“Col M.”: My friend’s young daughter
was to be a squirrel in a school play,
“Young Hiawatha Hunting.” ,We all
went along in support and took our seats
in deck-chairs which formed a semi-circle
on the basketball court, and looked at
the backdrop of two natural willow-trees
and a tubbed hydrangea. Relatives and
friends of the players were given the ring-
side and beamed like an arc of footlights,
and before she went to change our guide
pointed out these celebrities—blood rela-
tions of lagoo, Nokomis, Opechee, even
of the Hiawatha. She explained a few
of the technical points of the play; when
Hiawatha drew a bow on the deer we were
not to woriy, for the lights would go out,
and when they came on again there would
be the deer pretending to be dead ; that
Hiawatha was a girl called Janet and that
the deer in normal life was known as
Merle, The lights went down and she left
us, and when we saw her again in squirrel
clothes we cheered. The climax was com-
ing up, the deer appeared and Hiawatha
‘Wo, lady. How about a tin of sardines?”
drew her bow. There followed an unmis-
takable twang, a roar from the audience,
anc j then a hush. Hiawatha stood with
her mouth wide open, looking, as we all
looked, at her mother, who gazed be-
wildered at the arrow embedded in the
turf between her feet ’ .
u , * „ * * u *
Melbn : Two years hence to com-
memorate the centenary of the estab-
hshment of Victoria as a colony and
the discovery of gold, the Victorian
Government proposes to kill three birds
Wl th one stone by staging an international
exhibition similar to the one held in Mel-
bourne in 1888. The third bird will be
the fiftieth anniversary of Federation, and
the Federal Government will be asked
to join in the celebrations. No statement
is forthcoming as to where the new shindy
is to be located. The 1888 show occa-
sioned the erection of the enormous Ex-
hibition building, which has been a white
elephant ever since.
• * * •
Lawnstob ; A stone slab from an
ancient Syrian grave which was buried in
early Christian time?, but reburied in
Tasmania by the disastrous floods of
1929, has just been rediscovered. It was
found in Syria many years ago by C. G.
Robinson when investigating mining
prospects 50 miles from Damascus. The
in ancient Greek, says:
Christ most sweet and mild thou shalt
five for ever.” It was disinterred when
a copper was being rebricked in Laun-
ceston.
* , *. * *
Gee ; Misprints are often the cause
of some amusement, but w,e in the Out-
back get our chuckles from the boners
of the A.B.C. news-service. We were
recently entertained by the announce-
ment that, as Thargomindah was cut off
by floods and the inhabitants looked like
starving, cars were leaving Charleville
to take bread to the area. What the
bread would be like by the time it reached
its destination a glance at a road-map
will show. Still, that was nothing com-
pared with the next effort, when Thargo.
again hit the news the following week.
The announcer informed us that the lines
were down in the flood and the train
could not get through from Quilpie to
Thargomindah. I’d hate to think of the
number of years people have been agitat-
ing to have Thargomindah connected by
rail, but although survey-pegs dating back
to 1910 are still often dug up by the
curious, and a railway bridge built to
take the line is falling to decay, rail
communication is still a thing of the
distant future.
• * * *
“Dalziel”: I’ll match that par. about
the bloke whose mother sent him a stamp
on the outside of a letter (B. 30/3/’49)
with one about a bloke who put the
address on the inside. Our location in
the N.E.I. was a strict secret until I
received a parcel from home, addressed,
as usual: “R.A.A.F. Overseas.” Some
one at the base p.-o. had pencilled the
name df our strip underneath. My next
parcel home was wrapped in the same
paper, turned inside out. The censor
missed it, but instead of being glad I
was sorry, for less than a week later
we were evacuated a few hours in front
of the attacking Nips, The folks at
home discovered my location on the
same day that the radio announced that
the place had been captured.
* * * *
“Nunk”: In a radio interview after
her New York debut Joan Hammond
was asked the difference between Ameri-
can and Australian critics ; she replied
that American critics could break a per-
former, while Australian critics could
not. I seem to remember that when Fay
Compton was out here with “Victoria
Regina” she offended the Press in some
way in Melbourne and, if they didn’t
exactly break her tour, the writing boys
and girls managed to leave a considerable
impression that she wasn’t there. But for
the most part Miss Hammond’s implica-
tion is true. Because most of our stage
and concert shows have been imported
successes, Australians almost never see a
failure. This robs them of the feeling of
being necessary to the production of a
wor k of art which critics and audiences
i n the world’s great capitals have: we
can neV er claim an Australian culture
unt il Australian audiences can make or
break a show
*"♦ * *
“B. A. Ker”: A Government adver-
tisement in the “Sydney Morning Herald”
has set me thinking. It read: “Tenders
will be received f0r.... Supply and de-
livery of Drums, Snubs and Idlers to
General Post Office, Sydney.” Idlers?
I always thought they came automatically
to a Government job; it’s rather startling
to think that the manpower shortage has
become so acute that the stock of idlers
nee ds replenishing. As for snubs, the
p.M.G. should come to our local post-
office if he really wants snubs. I saw
five persons in succession get first-class
ones merelv hv asking civil Questions of
But drums? All I can think of is that
thev’ll he needed so that somehodv can
idlrs the dimm whTn a super-
visor is comine
* commg ; * *
“Pink Tape”: People who holler for
the restoration of the Sydney G.P.O.
tower and clock will have to wait some
time Before that restoration another
two storeys are to be added to what is
now known as “the old building”; before
any further weight can be put on top
there will need to be further strengthening
of the foundations. These have had to
be strengthened with each overhead addi-
tion ; very few are aware of the masses
of concrete that have been forced under
the old base. Both jobs will be long
ones* and when the tower is replaced—
if it ever is—it will be dwarfed by the
masses of surrounding masonry. The
G.P.O. will need all the new space and
will soon be hungry for more. There
was much derision of King O’Malley
as a man who indulged in pipe-dreams
when he proposed the Commonwealth
resumption of the whole Martin-place-
Pitt-King-George-streets block for Com-
monwealth offices, grouping them in one
centre, the scheme including a plaza on
the King-street side; now, it seems that
“the King” has the laugh on his deriders.
* * * *
“Simon”: In “Information Sought”
(B. 30/3/’49) mention was made of the
old Pyrmont bridge which stood to the
north of the present structure. Although
built in 1857 it carried heavy traffic till
1902, when the new bridge was opened.
Even then its useful career had not ended.
When the dismantled material was
auctioned a coachbuilder for whom I
clerked bought the ircnbark piles that
had stood more or less submerged from
the beginning. He converted them into
felloes, spokes, hubs and other things,
some of which may still be on the roads
defying time.
♦ ♦; ♦ •
“Clooter”: My morning paper in-
formed me last week that an ice-cream
company was advertising for “a live
zebra.” A reporter who tried to discover
the purpose wasn’t very successful, but
he did gain the information that the
company was confident of obtaining such
an animal. lam not acquainted with the
state of the zebra-supply in this country,
nor can I imagine just what the striped
quadruped would do in an ice-cream
company. A hurried glance through the
stockmarket reports revealed no quota-
tions for zebras of any kind, and an
inquiry of a colleague whose duty it is
to examine, among other things, the
profits of ice-cream companies, refused
to say anything more than “there’s a
nigger in the woodpile,” and that in dark
and sinister tones. Since the company
appears to be confident of obtaining a
zebra, I can only conclude that some-
where—perhaps in the folds of the
Hawkesbury hills or in the unknown
territory between the Cross and the ’Loo
—zebra ranches have sprung into exist-
ence and that, presumably, the ice-cream-
company secretary is going to arrive at
the factory some fine morning and find
a queue of zebra-fanciers on the mat.
* « * «
“Balander”: Far be it from me to
criticise the saviours of Democracy, but
I cannot help a sneaking sympathy for
those who encountered them in the last
upheaval. Put it down to sentimental
weakness if you like —I prefer to regard
it as a kind of last flicker of humaneness
in a naughty and cruel world —
but the mental vision of hundreds,
possibly thousands, of Germans, Italians
and Japanese taking up post-war life
without noses stirs me to an emotion
half-way between horror and hilarity.
Our military authorities have never dis-
closed the secret weapon which inflicted
this disaster upon enemy proboscides; it
was revealed in a Brisbane police-court
the other day when a fisherman com-
plained that a prawner had “bitten off
his nose after an argument.” A witness
on oath said the prawner had claimed
he “had learrfed to bite in the Army.”
If I’m mistaken in assuming that this
form of attack was part of military train-
ing, then I can only assume that the man
was taught the art by (a) a saboteur
school or (b) an enraged provost.
* * * *
“Oliver Filter”: There is also a
memorial to Hinkler (B. 6/4/’49) in the
N.T. —Hinkler Bore, on the road south
from Brunette Downs to Alroy Downs.
The story 1 was told of its naming may
or may not have been accurate, and my
own memory may be at fault on some
of the details, but it seems that a white
man who used to make regular visits of
inspection to the bore sent an abo. out
instead one day. On that particular
morning Hinkler, bushed, landed beside
the bore. He was looking for Alexandria
—or, possibly, Avon —and asked the abo.
for directions. The abo. examined the
horizon and, pointing into space, said
“Thataway!” Hinkler took off and flew
“thataway” without further mishap. In-
cidentally, before the war, the walls of
“the airmen’s room” in the Victoria
Hotel, Darwin, were decorated with the
signatures of many noted fliers who
had passed through Darwin. Anyone
recollect if Hinkler’s was among them?
“Gpa’s Understudy”: Add to the list
of aviation reminders (B. 23/3/’49) the
monument erected on Torquay (Vic.)
beach to mark the first crossing by air
of Bass Strait. It bears an inscription
stating that the plane landed about one
mile s.-w. of the spot on December 17,
1919. The solo flight began from Stanley
(Tas.) at 6.40 a.m. and finished at Port
Melbourne about six hours later. The
machine, an old Boulton and Paul, was
piloted by Flight-Lieut. A. L. Long, a
pilot of World War I, and now a Mel-
bourne sharebroker.
NUDE ISLAND.
‘‘A Sydney nudist club has bought an island off
the coast where it will establish its headquarters,
secure from hikers, snoopers and other intruders
on its privacy. The only clothes-wearers will be the
stewards and waiters employed to serve club-
members.”—“Sunday Teleyrayh.”
An insulated Eden in the making,
Not yet identified and still unnamed,
Where venturers of either sex forsaking
Sartorial conventions, it is claimed,
May saunter round or in the sun lie baking
Alike unhaberdashed and unashamed,
Without being warned to mind their steps and
stops
By beach inspectors or officious cops.
No hikers will be stirred to sudden stupors
Disturbing such a wealth of nakedness.
Remote from view as ambuscading troopers,
They’ll keep their island to themselves, I
guess.
Beyond the range of Peeping Toms and
snoopers,
Who elsewhere have occasioned them distress,
They’ll do whatever constitutes their stuff
Stripped boldly and completely to the buff.
What the blue blazes does it matter whether
Prudes may condemn or wowsers raise a yell?
Who for a form or figure cares a feather
When there are no photographers to tell?
With all together “in the altogether”
Or, as the Frenchmen say, au naturel.
In birthday suits, unscreened by pants or skirt,
Whose modesty is shocked, whose morals hurt?
Stay—l forgot the waiter and the steward,
Chaps whom we look to find, in any event,
Garbed in the duds wherewith they’ve been
inured
The tokens of their calling to present.
Tis hard, ’tis passing hard, to be assured
They won’t experience embarrassment
When handing cocktails and the like about,
And feel unpleasantly like “odd men out.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“K.D.S.”: May I have the address of
the girl who opened that carriage-door
(B. 23/3/’49)? The owner of my
cottage said when handing over to
me, “Oh, this oven-door is a little
difficult; I can’t always open it
myself without a bit of wiggling,
but” Left to myself I fried eggs for
breakfast, put the pan inside the stove
for a moment and shut the door. That
was a year ago, since when 10 people
have wrought, wrestled, wrenched and
failed to liberate the incarcerated frying-
pan, and the owner jibs at returning 500
miles just to wiggle that infernal oven-
door. Come on, “B. A. Ker,” give me
that address,
* ♦ ♦ *
“Bo”: So far as I know the Institute
of Optometrists has never made a volun-
tary contribution to the treasury of
Sydney’s City Council or even sent their
civic fathers a letter of thanks, and I
can only conclude that the omission con-
stitutes yet another example of that in-
gratitude which is so marked a feature
of human nature. A Gallup poll taken
among those seeking remedial measures
for acute eyestrain would probably
reveal that a high percentage attend con-
certs held in the Town Hall. These
would, of course, be the tyros —the regu-
lar concertgoer would.no more think of
going without a pocket-torch by which
to read his programme than a “Labor”
politician would of paying to see a
Stadium fight. In rebuttal of the charge
of extreme gloominess that pervades the
hall aldermen will probably cite the
triumphant case of a man the other night
at the Beethoven violin recital who,
sitting in the southern gallery, was
actually able to recognise a friend sitting
opposite him in the northern one. He
was, however, an ex-nightfighter pilot.
Still, by keeping extinguished all the
gallery clusters and all the ceiling lights
but three, the council is effecting a valu-
able saving of at least a bag and a half of
coal, and it only needs someone else to
save a further 6500 tons a night to almost
wipe out the average daily loss caused
by strikes.
* * * «
“C. Coral”: The euphonious name of
Ringarooma, carried by a town, river,
point and bay in Tasmania’s north-west,
is providing nomenclature-hobbyists with
an intriguing riddle. No one seems to
know what the name means, or who first
bestowed it on the river that has carried
the name from the ’twenties of last cen-
tury. Old surveyors’ papers spell it in
different ways; and explorer G. A.
Robinson refers to Ringheroomer River
and Ring a rooma Point, although he
says the “boatmen” of the period who
sailed that way in sealing-boats and
whalers called the bay Ringa Bay, which
suggests a Maori derivation. Tasmanian
aboriginal vocabularies fail to disclose
any Ringarooma —the word Ringa does
occur in some other word-combinations
—and other Australian dialects don’t seem
to know the word either. First use on a
map is said to be in 1829 ; but James
Kelly, who circumnavigated the island
about 1815, mentions a Ringarooma Bay,
and a clerk connected with the Van
Diemen’s Land Company who was ship-
wrecked in the vicinity writes of Ripga-
roome Bay, obviously the same place.
Curiously enough, the present town of
Ringarooma didn’t get its name until the
’seventies ; before that the town of Ringa-
rooma was at the mouth of the Boobyalla
River, 40 miles or so to the west.
♦ * * *
“H.W.M.”: The report of a guardian
who sued himself recalls a case
in Melbourne some years ago. A com-
pany owed its secretary £5O and refused
to pay up. The secretary was the public
officer of the company, and he had as a
sub-tenant in his office a Justice of the
Peace. He prepared a summons return-
able at the Court of Petty Sessions. He
was the complainant in his own name as
the creditor, and the J.P. issued the
summons. The secretary served them on
“Corned 'orse a beet salty , yes?"
himself as public officer. On the back of
the summons he made out the affidavit
of service which stated that he had served
the summons on himself, and the affidavit
of service was sworn before the same
J.P. The summons was then filed at the
court, and an order for the amount was
made without the directors being aware
of the proceedings—until the secretary
informed them that following on the
order he had issued a garnishee on a firm
which owed the company money. Sooner
than have any publicity the company
paid up.
* ♦ * ♦
“Cauboy”: There is coincidence in the
return of Melbourne King’s to flesh-and-
blood plays after a long flirtation with
the talkies. The last legit, production
seen there was “The Women,” which had
no men in it. It reopens with “Rusty
Bugles,” which is devoid of women.
There was public outcry over “The
Women,” and General Blarney sent a
sergeant and a policeman to make a
report on the performance, having first
taken the precaution of seeing it himself
as a private citizen. The sergeant dic-
tated the lines he found most obnoxious,
and the cop laughed so much he could
hardly operate his pencil. The Chief
Secretary has asked Miss Fitton to sub-
mit a copy of “Rusty Bugles” for his
consideration.
* * « *
“Dong”: If bank-nationalisation comes
I’ll keep my money in a sock. Lately
I wished to transfer some coin from my
account in a trading bank to my wife’s
“What do you mean —sneaking in like this!”
account in the Commonwealth Savings
Bank. I went along with a bank cheque
and my wife’s passbook; the teller
looked stunned, and passed me on. The
chief clerk told me that I would have to
sign the cheque on the back and get my
own bank to certify that the signature
was mine. He had the necessary legal
words all set out on a rubber-stamp. I
asked him if I could open an account
myself with the cheque, intending then
to give my wife a signed withdrawal-form
for the full amount. “No, sir,” he told
me, “not with a cheque. It wouldn’t
do.” So I went back to my own bankers,
who were amused, and, after seeing the
chief clerk again at the Commonwealth,
I was allowed to get back on the end of
a queue and ultimately to deposit the
money. I have found since that if I had
opened an account at the Common-
wealth with a shilling I could have de-
posited the cheque and saved myself a
long walk.
♦ ♦ * •
“Windowshopper”: Last week, for the
first time in 10 years, I saw two Sydney
stores making an effort to seduce the
public attention; one had a man trying
on hats in the window to an audience so
large it blocked the footpath; the othet
had what they called a “Mad Artist”
(“but sane values”), whiskered and
moustachioed and wearing a floral smock,
making drawings of the crowd outside.
Is business getting bad? I’ll believe it
when I see Scorfield or Heth doing lunch-
hour caricatures in The Bulletin win-
dows.
* * * *
“One Section”: Tram-scalers and dis-
honest conductors are said to be
responsible for a considerable propor-
tion of the deficit on Sydney’s tramways
system, but this is apparently by no
means a new phenomenon. Sappho
Smith, in her Woman’s Letter in The
Bulletin of 10/5/1890, burst into verse
on the subject :
I sat in a tram at midnight
While the guard went on his raid,
And I heard six tings of his telltale bell
When twelve passengers jought to have paid.
They were steam-trams in Sappho’s day
—or possibly she was talking of the
North Sydney cable-tram. Modes of
locomotion change, but not human
nature.
♦ ♦ * •
“K.V.”: The sinister figure crawling
from the garage to the roof, circling the
chimney and sliding down the other side
of the house could be no other than a
“cat-burglar.” Sounds of revelry from
below, denoting a party in progress, pro-
vided all the elements for a crime being
perpetrated in our quiet suburb. Quietly
mustering all available masculinity, we
sketched out a plan of campaign, then
hastily went to our allotted stations.
From our hideouts we watched him walk
into the trap. A torch was suddenly
flashed on, to reveal a sheepish-looking
individual holding tight to a piece of
string. Our hopes of figuring in head-
lines were ingloriously shattered when he
produced his alibi. A radio-uncle had
told him to follow the string for his
birthday present.
* * * *
“Isa Lei”: When an indignant British
migrant reported to the Adelaide police
that he had found 200 loaves of bread
dumped in a vacant allotment he took
photos of the scene of waste with the
intention of sending them to England.
When the police went to investigate the
bread had disappeared. Press publicity
had apparently spurred the responsible
party into action. But the bread had
been there —crumbs and photos pro-
vided evidence.
* * * •
“Jacob”: In the old days sideshow
spruikers at exhibitions and shows were
half the fun as they strove to attract
customers to the “greatest show on earth.”
Generally speaking, the man with the
biggest voice got the biggest crowd.
' Then someone thought of using a public-
I address system. He had a terrific advan-
tage for a while, but now every show,
including the merry-go-rounds and
swings, has a loudspeaker, and we are
right back where we started—except that
no one can understand a word anyone
is saying and we all go home with head-
aches. The Association of Sideshowmen,
or whatever it is they call themselves,
should have a get-together and ban the lot.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
“Ida D.”: The experience of “Hamer”
in having his name pinched (B. 23 / 3 / ’49)
was not uncommon; many literary men
have been similarly flattered. I was once
teaching in a district where a young
Englishman posed as the brother of Clara
Butt and got' away with it. Clara’s family
name was Hook, and her sister Nellie
visited Australia under her own name,
* * * *
“Jim O’Keefe”; Illegible writing, is it
(B. 2/3/’49)? On the way by train to a
suburban dance-hall, four of us, armed
with the necessary instruments to provide
the noises that make hep-cats hep, were
confronted by a lugubrious character
who talked long and nasally on the
benefits of being “saved.” He fluttered
tracts all over the compartment and
desired us to read them for our spiritual
good. Then, strong in the belief of his
own sure place in Paradise, he hauled out
a screed which he claimed was a highly
complimentary survey of his virtues by
a well-known hot-gospeller. Devil a word
of it could any of us decipher, and the
gloomy one was about to read it to us
when Ben hauled out his clarinet. “Wait
a bit,” growled Ben, “I can read any
damn’ thing ever written.” He set the
paper up, stared intently at it, and tore
off the most ear-wrenching howls and
squarks I ever heard a clarinet emit.
Sourface grabbed his paper, trousered it
in indignant haste and made for the next
compartment.
“Shep”: “Bounty” relics (B. 30/3/’49)?
Two substantial ones are the ship’s guns,
now on Norfolk Island. Sunk when the
Bounty burned, they were raised in 1855,
and when the Pitcairners moved to
Norfolk Island they went, too. The
Bounty’s chronometer is in the United
Service Museum of Scotland Yard.
Nordhoff and Hall, co-authors of a
trilogy of Pitcairn books, possessed some
of the Bounty’s nautical instruments, and
the ship’s sledgehammer is said to be in
the possession of a roving descendant of
the mutineers living in the Solomons.
Perhaps the most prized possession of the
Pitcairners is the Bounty’s rudder, re-
covered from the sea in 1933 ; this, after
all, is an actual part of the ship.
* * * *
“Hamfat”: In a suburban assault case
an elderly woman gave evidence that
when a young man dashed in with a
hefty right to the rescue of a fair damsel
who was being dragged along the street
by a man, he cried “Unhand her,
villain!” before he struck his blow. The
“villain’s” explanation was that he was
trying to stop his de facto from going to
the plonk-shop when, without warning,
Sir Galahad dashed his fist into the
argument. Galahad’s own version was
H T told the bloke to leave the sheilah
alone”; and although he was unable to
recall the exact words he employed, it
is hardly likely that he used the phrase
the old lady said he did. No doubt she
interpreted his actual speech into the
language she thought was applicable to
the occasion; many people do that and
are prepared to swear that the words
they thought they heard were actually
used. Still, one never knows. Centuries
of melodrama have impregnated the
language with phrases which leap on to
the lips as if by instinct in dramatic situa-
tions. ’ Only today I heard a heated man
tell another that the money he demanded
would only be collected “over my dead
body.” The money concerned was tup-
pence ; the tram conductor alleging that
the irate chap had travelled further than
he had paid for.
IT’S ANOTHER COLOR NOW.
“Labor having secured after 16 years a majority in
the N.S.W. Legislative Council, little more is likely
to be heard of the party plank to abolish the second
Chamber.”
They used to rail about it once
And swear they meant to kill
The House where property and bunce
Could block the people’s will.
Soon as they got a chance, they’d smite
It hip and thigh, they’d vow;
But when the chance has come, too right,
Just like the old song says “It’s quite
Another color now.”
They pledged themselves they’d never shirk
The task their party places
As absolutely needful work.
But points of view may change and circ-
umstances alter cases.
And now they’re tops as Ms.L.C.
One readily conceives
It’s what they term expressively
Another pair of sleeves.
Stout fellows might be found content
To vote their jobs away
At party’s call, if with them went
No Parliamentary pay. /
But now, when members’ worth and wits I
At least some guerdon bring, I
Though but six quid, plus perquisites,
A week, quite obviously, it’s ,
A very different thing.
To belt the Council a k.o.
Was Labor’s aim not long ago,
Loud-voiced, you’ll all allow.
What storms it raised of scornful skite
The joint that once was blacked outright!
But, in changed hands, you’ll note, is quite
Another color now.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


f 'O'P
ftrf
Your choice 1. CINZANO
Vermouth, whether your taste is for
sweet or dry. CINZANO Vermouth
gives just that extra exhilarating tang
to the palate.
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
63 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO TEE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
To Help Solve Your Mosey Worries
(01
RURAL BANK
Head Office: Martin Place, Sydney*
A personal, confidential service
is available at the Rural Bank
to those financially embarrassed.
Personal loans from £lO upwards
are made at a moderate rate of
interest with repayments spread
over a period of years. If you’re
-troubled about money matters
and unexpected bills* come In
and talk It over.
THE WILD CAT COLUMN
Lustre Hosiery, Ltd. (Sydney)
f—' Dividends —\To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref.* Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1939.. 32.838 8 p.c. 8 p.c. 24,800 7,538 92,858
1940.. 32.730 9 „ 9 „ 27,900 4,830 97,188
Depreciation written back, £15,000. .112,188
1941. .27,909 9 p.c. 9 p.c. 27,900 9 112,197
Written off intangibles, £442 .. 112,639
Directors’ fees adjusted, £l6OO .. 111,039
1942.. 29.964 9 p.c. 9 p.c. 27,900 2,064 113,103
1943.. 33.489 9 „ 9 „ 27,900 ) fi o o 11U (,o
Staff fund, £5OOO .. ..j 589 113 > 692
1944.. 31.557 9 p.c. 9 p.c. 27,900 ), 11fi 8 0 9
Staff fund, £2,010 .. .. f 1,647 115,339
1945.. 28.370 9 p.c. 9 p.c. 27,900 470 115,809
1946.. 29.860 9 „ 9 „ 27,900 1,460 117,269
1947.. 40,622 9 „ 9 „ 27,900 12,722 129,991
1948.. 45,562 9 „ 9 „ 27,900 17,662 147,653
* Pref. div. subject to N.S.W. Interest Reduction
Act from l/10/’SI.
Despite last year’s record profit and the
fact that demand for the co.’s products
is still running ahead of production, signs
are not wanting that the steep up-curve
of sales in the hosiery trade will tend to
flatten out in the future. This is im-
portant because it has been the buoyancy
of turnover that has enabled profits to
rise in the face of advancing costs and
narrower gross margins—selling prices
are controlled. Now that the gap between
demand and production is narrowing, and
since the public is becoming increasingly
price-conscious, style, finish, quality and
price will henceforth play a much greater
part in sales than during the last few
years, when scarcities of materials and
labor, a rising national income and
virtual freedom from overseas competi-
tion provided the ingredients of a sellers’
market. Also, the emphasis in ‘ demand
for hosiery has largely shifted from pure
silk and rayon, which were the vogue pre-
war, to rayon and nylon.
All this is both a challenge and a spur
to efficiency in the industry. As a back-
ing to its efforts to increase efficiency,
Lustre recently sent some of its execu-
tives and technicians to the U.S, and
Britain where, besides becoming
acquainted with latest developments in
the trade, they bought a lot of new and
modern equipment, much of it for pro-
duction of now-fashionable nylon and
full-fashioned hosiery and other fabrics.
Some of the new units have already been
installed, and more are to arrive. It is
up to labor to play its part now, and
abandon its sellers’-market attitude.
The co. spent £35,076 more on plant
than was written off last year:
1940. 1946. 1947. 1948.
’ Ord. capital. . £226,667 £226,667 £226,667 £231,041
Pref. capital. . 83,333 83,333 83,383 83,333
Mortgages .. 31,928 26,500 , 26,500 26,500
Overdraft ' . . 163,243 57,406 81,927 286,861
Creditors . . 68,855 11,233 20,131 36,625
Tax provision 37,731 27,760 45,500 54,000
Freeholds .. 122,847 122,000 119,000 117,500
Plant.. .. 133,485 52,148 68,630 103,706
Stocks . . 332,250 255,692 313,393 460,133
Debtors . . 115,820 98,557 117,008 130,845
Cash, etc. .. 3,287 10,511 550 568
Shares subsid. 16,206 25,210 17,210 17,210
The sharp rise of £146,740 in stocks was
due mainly to bigger trading, rising
prices and withdrawal of subsidies on
woollen, rayon and cotton yarns. Debtors’
balances (up £13,837) include £36,000 due
in respect of subsidies, most of which
has been paid since the close of accounts.
To meet the outlay the co, went to its
bankers for an extra £154,934 and added
£16,494 to the amount coming to trade
creditors.
When the books closed there was 15s.
4d. of outside money (including tax pro-
vision) at risk in the business for every
pound belonging to shareholders. The
40,000 new £1 ords. issued at a premium
of Bs. 6d. each shortly before the close
of accounts will reduce the figure to 13s.
Bd. when the issue is fully paid.
But with costs and prices still rising and
more plant on the way, the board might
have to call upon those on the register
for further assistance before the close
of 1949. So at the annual meeting on
April 29 shareholders will be asked to
increase nominal capital to £500,000 by
the creation of 150,000 new £1 ords.
A record turnover, achieved in the face
of many production difficulties, more than
took care of advancing costs. After
allowing £19,772 (up £798) for deprecia-
tion and something for taxation and other
contingencies, the board wrote net earn-
ings £4940 stronger at £45,562. That
was equal to 14.7 p.c. on £310,000 of
capital (13 p.c. on capital as it will stand
after the new issue is fully paid) as
against 13.1, 9.4, 9.1, 10.1, 10.8 and
9.6 p.c. back to 1942. The div. was kept
at an all-round 9 p.c. for the ninth year
in succession—the £83,333 of 10 p.c. pref.
money is subject to the N. S. Wales In-
terest Reduction Act, under which the div.
advances point for point with the ords.
from a minimum 1\ p.c. to the full con-
tract rate.
The market notes the co.’s satis-
factory record as a dividend-payer, the
satisfactory margin between current
earnings and distributions, that the co.
is well equipped technically and othei-
wise for the struggle ahead, and that
shareholders are likely to be called upon
for more, and prices the ords. at 365. 6d. —
they had reached 455. early in 1948, when
there were no American and other tremors
to be heard. The immediate return at 365.
6d. is 4.9 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis. On
the same basis the prefs. at 38s. 9d.
yield 4.6 p.c. Including the new issue,
net tangible cover is £6 3s. 4d. prefs, and
325. 4d, ords.
Southern Portland Cement, Ltd. (N.S.W.)
i Dividends. , Nominal
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Oct, Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. Total, serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1940.. 52,883 6.2 p.c. 6.2 p.c. 52,758 125 105,927
1941.. 44.672 7.1 „ 5.6 „ 50,819 99,680
1942.-28,362 8 „ 3.5 „ 39,280 88,762
1948.. 47,079 8 „ 3 „ 36,081 10,998 99,760
1944.. 8 „ 3.5 „ 39,280 1,179 100,939
Written off, £50,000 50,939
1945.. 28.182 8 „ Nil 16,884 11,298 62,237
1946.. 35.835 8 „ 2J p.c. 34,481 1,354 63,591
1947.. 39,835 8 „ 3 „ 36,081 3,754 67,845
1948.. 28,715 8 „ Nil 16,884 11,831 79,176
♦ Subject to unspecified rights.
Shareholders in the budding Metropoli-
tan Cement, Ltd., won’t get much inspira-
tion from the performance of this
Southern Portland Cement Co., of which
A. S. Taylor, now Metropolitan’s director
of personnel, was chairman and man-
aging director until 1932 —between times
he was associated with Metropolitan
Products, Ltd., and the Atlas Cement
Co., neither of which got into produc-
tion.
Southern —formed in 1927 with the
blessing of A. I. and S. and Howard
Smith, who together own most of the
£850,940 of paid capital, of which
£211,055 carries a cumulative 8 p.c.—
got its 160,000-tons-p.a. plant at Berrima
(N.S.W.) going at the anxious end of
the 1920’5, and therefore missed the
market. So the prefs., after receiving an
initial div. in 1929, went hungry for the
next six years. Their slate was cleaned
in 1937, and they have had regular pay-
ments since. The ords., which didn’t get
into the picture until 1938, have aver-
aged only 3i p.c. for the 11 years to
the close of last accounts, or 1| p.c. for
the 20 years since production began.
Since pre-war aggregate cement pro-
duction in N. S. Wales has fallen, and
risen again in this way:
Tons. Tons.
1937-38 .. 438,267 1945-46 .. 320,556
1943- . . 305,384 1946-47 ..' 393,397
1944- .. 327,830 1947-48 .. 441,023
As a war-time rationalisation measure,
the Standard Cement Co.’s Charbon
works (capacity 100,000 tons p.a.) closed
in July, 1942, and won’t start up again
until the end of this month. Meanwhile
Southern has supplied Standard’s require-
ments to the benefit of the former’s unit
costs.
Despite last year’s growth in aggregate
output, there was a sharp drop of £11,120
in Southern’s net earnings. This was due
chiefly to the heavy surcharge involved
in road transport of limestone, the cost
of which was more than double
the freight by rail. The £28,715
of profit, written after allowing
a liberal £56,056 (up £955) for deprecia-
tion and something for taxation and other
contingencies, covered the full pref. div.
and 1.8 p.c. on ord. capital as against
3.5, 2.9, 1.7, 3.6 and 4.7 p.c. back to
1943. And, for the second time in the
last four years, no ord. div. was paid.
Although few industries enjoy a more
satisfactory outlook on the demand side
than cement —heavy consumers of the stuff
(large-scale public works, factory, office,
flat and other buildings) haven’t yet got
into their stride—it is well to remember
that last year’s aggregate output in N.
S. Wales was only about half the State’s
total plant capacity, excluding Metropoli-
tan (capacity 150,000 tons p.a.). Chief
bottleneck has been coal, with labor and
transport difficulties and the 40-hour week
aggravating the position. Rising operat-
ing costs against a background of fixed
selling prices promise to keep profit mar-
gins narrow. Best results will be won
from efficient plants which have a low
capital value in the books, and which
also enjoy a satisfactory volume of out-
put.
This Southern co. is well equipped
financially and otherwise:
1937. 1944. 1947!. 1948.
Paid capital.. £850,940 £850,949 £850,940 £850,940
Creditors* 80,556 114,608 145,920 152,981
rights, etc. 916,926 619,584 456,204 486,055
Stocks .. 39,476 72,492 84,767 123,189
Book debts . . 85,653 69,444 48,866 66,648
Cash, etc. . . 2,060 314,565 453,564 407,255
* Including taxation.
Stocks and book debts together exceeded
outside liabilities by £36,806 when the
books closed. The holding of cash, etc.,
covered the whole of the pref. capital and
6s. Id, per ord. share besides. Over
the last eight years £405,506 has been
written off the book value of plant, etc.,
now reported in good condition.
The market sums up the position by
pricing the f.-p. pound ords. at 195.;
more recently buyers offered 17s. There
has been no published sale of the prefs.
for some time.
York Motors (Holding), Ltd. (Sydney)
Subsidiary , Holding Co. —^
Co. r Dividends— —Nominal
Nov., Profit. Profit. Pref.* Ord. Total. Reserves.
£ £ p.c. p.c. £ £
1942.. 21,063 34,423 6i 8.9 32,890 2,533
1948.. 23,939 12,776 6i 3 14,560 748
From tax reserve, £3027 .. .. 3,776
1944.. 35,898 32,336 6$ 10.5 34,612 1,499
To inner reserve, £1499 .. .. •
1945.. 56,101 17,285 9.9 31,158 f 1,685
1946.. 55,828 53,547 10 31,200 24,032
1947.. 159,335 50,306 15 46,800 27,538
Share premiums, £BB,OOO .. .. 115,538
1948.. 253,259 145,800 15 52,300 209,038
1949.. —' 253,0001
* Pref. capital was raised in 1939 and repaid in 1943.
t £15,558 paid from subsid.’s inner reserve,
t Gross.
A comparative newcomer to the Stock
Exchange list, York Motors (Holding)
was formed in 1939 to buy up the six-
year-old York Motors Pty., and paid £6
apiece for the latter’s 52,000 £1 shares.
War upset vehicle supplies, but the board
improvised in other fields and kept
adding to its team of agencies. Besides
its original N.S.W. franchises for
Morris and Chrysler, it now distri-
butes Willys, Studebakers, Singers, Rolls-
Royces and Bentleys, as well as Fargo
and Mack trucks and Howard tractors.
Moreover, it has the Queensland rights
for Austins, Willys, Reos, Cletrac and
Britstand—and in both States it does
business in spares and accessories.
Since the war, the co. has been relying
mainly on its British franchises, as the
dollar situation restricts most U.S. imports
to token quantities, and in some cases
(Chryslers, Studebakers) virtually pro-
hibits them. Turnover has bounded ahead
over the past three years, last term’s in-
crease being £2,434,835;
York Motors Pty., Ltd.
1945. 1946. 1947. 1948.
£ £ £, £,
Turnover . .844,829 1,649,127 3,069,506 5,504,341
Gross profit ..186,553 345,268 586,544 842,013
Less —
Depreciation,. 1,253 2,700 6,125 8,213
General 1 f 162,248 249,504 359,151
Exes. f- 129,199 -J
Tax .. J (.124,492 121,580 171,390
Net profit .. 56,101 55,828 209,335 303,259
Here the net profits for 1947 and 1948
are shown before a special £50,000
stocks-allowance in each case. Last
year’s net figure (86 p.c. on the parent’s
mean capital) was £93,924 better than
in 1947, after £49,810 extra tax and
£109,647 higher general exes.
So far the difficulty has been to keep
pace in body-building and assembly
work with the incoming flow of chassis.
Both Austin and Morris are taking a
more direct interest in local body con-
struction, but the lack of steel, labor and
premises are still limiting factors. York
Motors’ chairman says the £340,085 rise
in stocks (after the £50,000 provision) to
the latest “abnormal” figure is mainly
due to the assembly bottleneck:
Consolidated Figures.
1939. 1946. 1947. 1948.
Paid capital.. £392,000 £312,000 £312,000 £400,000
Reserves .. 123,502 178,309 286,150 561,909
Overdraft .. 20,964 158,844 251,642 110,793
Creditors, etc. ) fir aqo 1 210,814 430,270 632,945
Tax provision | 85,492 I 125,726 183,951 306,017
Freeholds .. 52,781 52,835 52,835 108,457
Plant .. 7,046 16,650 28,531 38,990
Stocks . . 250,067 374,510 714,777 1,054,862
Debtors .. 37,760 256,999 373,306 508,462
Investments .. 12,408 21,782 31,059 88,055
Cash .. 1,486 685 918
Premiums paid
on subsid’y
shares, etc. 261,896 261,431 262,820 261,920
Fixed assets also rose £66,081 last
year, after the purchase of a five-acre site
at Waterloo for the building of new
workshops, and showrooms. To finance
these outlays and £135,156 more debtors,
the board used its retained shareholder-
funds, and £184,492 more liabilities as
well as a capital issue last June of
88,000 £1 ords. at a 20s. premium.
British carmakers, with their switch-
over to mass production and special
measures like the Austin-Morris rap-
prochement, have made the most of their
export opportunities, but there is evidence
in Australia and elsewhere that their
markets are approaching saturation point.
York Motors will have to be more calcu-
lating in its buying policy and must face
growing competition from the new Aus-
tralian-made car whilst its own American
lines remain as inaccesible as ever.
A full year’s 15 p.c. div. on the in-
creased capital will require £60,000. The
parent’s shareholders can already esti-
mate pretty closely their profit for the
year that has still seven months to go;
it consists of £253,000 passed as a divi-
dend by the subsidiary since the close of
accounts, less the parent’s administrative
exes., etc., which came to £13,200 last
year. The board says “at least £100,000”
of this profit will be packed into reserves,
and the div. declared next November will
depend partly on the trading outlook
then. At 51s. 3d, (compared with 545.
3d. in February), the yield is 5.9 p.c. on
the last div. basis, and the shares have
net asset backing of 355. each, allowing
nothing for franchises.
J. C. Ludowici and Son, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Ke-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1940 .. 8,272 8 p.c.= 6344 1928 20,513
1941 .. 12,644 8 „ „ 6344 6300 26,813
To “contingent taxation,” £3652.. 23,161
1942 .. 13,892 8 p.c.= 6344 ‘ 7548 30,709
1943 . . 10,513 8 „ „ 6344 4169 34,878
1944 .. 12,280 11 „ „ 8723 3557 38,435
1945 . . 8,453 10 „ „ 7930 523 38,958
Contingency res. disclosed, £6boo .. 44,958
Assets realisation reserve, £20,999 .. 59,957
1946 . . 17,631 173p.c.f= 13,878 3753 63,710
Share premiums, £4140 .. .. 67,850
1947 .. 11,689 12jp.c. = 12,500 66,939
1948 .. 19,478 15 „ „ 15,000 4478 71,417
f Includes 5 p.c. bonus payment.,
This old-established tannery concern,
which also turns out a wide range of
leather beltings and industrial leathers,
does a substantial business as power-
transmission engineers as well. A grow-
ing export trade with near-by Asiatic
countries and the N.E.I. had been built
up pre-war, and about three years ago
the industrial glove-making business of
Kent Manufacturing Co. was taken over,
and is contributing to the pool.
The irregularity of results over the last
four years has been due to a variety of
causes. The 1945 figure was affected by
industrial disturbances. In the follow-
ing year exports of “merchandise lines
handled in conjunction with ordinary
business” sent profit up with a rush;
then sales of these “merchant lines,”
which carried wider profit margins than
the co.’s own products, eased, and so did
net earnings. Last term an increase of
p.c. in turnover was recorded, due


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Institution. Established 1862.
Head Office; GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS;
E. K. KNOX (Chairman), F. W. HIXSON, ORWELL PHILLIPS,
O. F. HUGHES, R. J. VICARS, J. W. DUNLOP.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
REMINGTON
presents the remarkable new
mi
■*=
frnj
&
ELECTRIC
SHAVER
Remington ‘Foursome*
Electric Shaver has two
highly efficient round shav-
ing heads and, in addition,
two flat shaving heads with
inside cutters. This gives
the ‘Foursome’ four times
the shaving power of a
single-head shaver. Here
is a new ease and comfort
in shaving that you have
never before experienced,
even if you are one of
those modern men who
have already discovered
the civilised way to shave
—with an electric shaver.
—No preparation
—a faster shave
—no cleaning up
Since 1940 more Remington
Electric Shavers have been sold
than all other makes combined.
Sold by leading Stores, Electrical
Goods Dealers and Jewellers.
Sole Australian Agents: Chartres Ltd., Sydney.
REM-62
4
r.d
/
•'K. v .V
:^x
<
I
s^>
tractr
18R75
mu
v?* rwe MNC
Rl A *xT CH WH'SKt
f. Scorru
Vhc
BUtmiE
SCOTCH WHISKY
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
For Sale.
FOR SALE: ONE 14 H.P. COLO-
NIAL BOILER, complete with mild-
steel casing, new 30ft. smoke stack
and spare tubes; W.P. 1001 b.
NORTH QUEENSLAND ENGIN-
EERS & AGENTS, Box 297, Phone
2994, Cairns.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES.
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Dueshury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred 8, White,
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
'Phone: B.W. 8361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney
Branches in All States.
Another Record Year
for the
NATIONAL
MUTUAL
RECORD NEW BUSINESS INCOME UP BONUS RATE
MAINTAINED
RESULTS FOR 79 YEARS 1869 TO 1948
Amount paid to Policyholders £92,751,202
Amount assured under Policies Current £184,874,977
Assurance Fund at September 30, 1948 £68,333,508
POINTS FROM THE CHAIRMAN'S ADDRESS
New Business: New assurances granted increased by two
and a half millions to £25,942,346, staff provident and
superannuation policies largely accounting for the in-
crease.
Payments to Policyholders: A record amount of
£4,448,507 was paid to policyholders or their representa-
tives during the year.
income: The total net income was £9,300,665 of which
premiums accounted for £6,945,921 and interest (after
deducting rates and taxes) for £2,354,744.
Home Purchase Loans: The Association has continued
its services to the community by the granting of con-
siderable financial assistance in conjunction with life
assurance to Home Seekers.
Bonus Distribution: Having regard to the downward
trend in interest rates it is very pleasing to announce
that bonuses are to be allocated on the same scale as
for the previous year a very satisfactory result when
the Association’s low premium rates are taken into ac-
count.
It pays to become a member of this progressive, purely
mutual Association. There are NO shareholders.
THE
NATIONAL MUTUAL
LIFE ASSOCIATION A/ASIA. LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1869 (INC. IN VICT.)
N.S.W. OFFICE: 350 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
mainly to a revival of merchan-
dise sales, to which the Mel-
bourne branch “materially con-
tributed.” On the manufactur-
ing side output was maintained,
and overdue price adjustments
eliminated losses on some lines.
So, despite rising costs, net earn-
ings shot up £7889, reaching
£19,478, or 19.4 p.c. on capital
as against 11.5, 22.1, 10.6, 15.4,
13.2 and 17.5 p.c. back to 1942.
The div. was lifted from 12£
p.c. to 15 p.c., making the aver-
age over the last four years 13.7
p.c. compared with an average of
6.8 p.c, for the preceding 15
years, which included both war
and slump.
How long the 15 p.c, div. is
likely to continue is difficult to
say. Everything depends upon
maintenance of the co.’s new
merchandise activities. Here the
local market appears to have
taken up the slack in the export
trade, but the cautious board is
tight-lipped about prospects. On
the manufacturing side, which is
the backbone of earnings, the co.
is well dug-in and the business
continues to expand, but prices
are controlled and profit margins
moderate.
To finance expanding business
£20,700 of fresh capital, which
brought with it £4140 of share
premiums, was gathered in May,
1947, when it was also proposed
to issue £19,773 of bonus scrip,
but the Treasury objected. Last
term the co. went outside for an
extra £19,292, which went mainly
into stocks (up £10,893) and
book-debts (up £6544):
1940. 1947. 1948.
Capital .. £79,300 £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Liabilities .. 27,929 75,261 94,653
Freeholds .. 68,978 81,868 81,368
Plant, etc... 10,391 22,889 22,634
Stocks .. 38,956 75,983 86,876
Book debts .. 17,918 61,752 68,296
Cash, etc. .. 5,584 8,874 16,462
When the books closed the more-
or-less liquid surplus (£77,081)
was £6233 stronger than at the
previous balance.
The market expresses its
opinion by pricing the f.-p. pound
shares at 465., at which figure the
return is 6.6 p.c. so long as the
15 p.c. div. continues, or 4.3 p.c.
should the rate drop to 10 p.c.
Cover is 345. 3d. in net tangibles.
Tongkah Harbor Tin Dredging
Most of the £5596 (stg.) netted
for the year to June 30 last came
from settlement of the co.’s pre-
war buffer - pool contribution.
When the books closed current
assets, including spares and
stores (£22,699), totalled £66,951,
and outside liabilities £72,547, of
which £46,535 was a rehabilita-
tion loan from the Malayan
Government. This loan has
since grown to £69,523, and
£26,441 has been received from
the Siamese Government for tin-
ore extracted during enemy
occupation. However, pending
settlement of the co.’s war-
damage claim (amount not
stated) its true financial position
is difficult to gauge.
Of the co.’s three properties,
each equipped with a bucket
dredge, two are in Siam (Bhuket
Island and Ronpibon) and one
in Malaya (Bidor). The Bidor
dredge began commercial pro-
duction again August 1, 1948,
and recoveries stepped up from
26 tons tin concentrates in Sept,
to 48.25 tons in January last.
At Bhuket, repossessed April
28, 1948, the dredge has not yet
set in again, owing to shortage
of labor and materials. Ron-
pibon, repossessed May 26,
1948, remains on a credit and
maintenance basis, because coal
cannot be got at a reasonable
price.
At end March, 1941, ore re-
serves and dredge capacities
were:
Dredge
Estimated Average Capacity,
Reserves, per c.y. p.a.
’OOO c.y. t.o. ’OOO c.y.
Bhuket .. 40,011 0.3171 b. 1,880
Ronpibon .. 33,747 0.440 ~ 1,335
Bidor .. .. 7,622 0.410 „7 „ nnft
Bidor extension 6,890 0.598 „ j ’
During enemy occupation about
681 tons t.o. were extracted at
Bhuket (the outer harbor is
practically worked out), and
some 100 tons t.o. at Ronpibon.
At Bidor 175 acres previously
held under agricultural title were
recently converted to mining
lease. However, until the pro-
perties are reassessed it is diffi-
cult to say precisely what ore
reserves are at the moment.
In 1940 co. netted £48,120
(stg.) and paid Is. (stg.) a share
£38,200) from treatment of
0.531 b. ground. Paid capital is
£191,000 in ss. shares, which
now fetch ss. Bd. in the market
—highest price in 1948 was 10s.
9d.
With seven dredges operating
Bulolo cleaned up 895,030 c.y.
for 49670 z, gold during Febru-
ary. The eighth, last remain-
ing machine of the fleet, set in
on February 26. Here are de-
tails of pre-war capacity, etc.,
of each dredge:—
Rated Power
Monthly Size Require-
Capacity. Buckets. ments.
No. 1 .. 250,000 c.y. 10 c.ft. 700 h.p.
No. 2 .. 250,000 „ 10 „ 700 „
Mo. 3 . . 260,000 „ 10 „ 700 „
No. 4 .. 250,000 „ 10 „ 700 „
No. 5 .. 300,000 „ 10$ „ 1400 „
No. 6 .. 150,000 „ 6 „ 450 „
No. 7 . . 300,000 „ 10$ „ 1400 „
No. 8 .. 300,000 „ 10 „ 700 „
Total monthly capacity of the
entire fleet was 2,050,000 c.y.
Labor and other difficulties,
which now stand in the way of
capacity performance, together
with rising prices, have bumped
up costs and led to a recalcula-
tion of gravel reserves. At end
May last they were put at
111.979.000 c.y. (down
16.203.000 c.y.) dredgable and
13.500.000 c.y. (down 7,500,000
c.y.) to be handled by hydraulic
equipment later on. The co.’s
$5 shares fetch around £6 2s. 6d.
on the Australian market.
Highest price in 1948 was £9 10s.
Last div. was $1 a share at the
end of 1948.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: Gin-gin George and
Warroo Walters, with one horse between
them, rode double into Condobolin, tied
the horse to a verandah-post of the
Family Hotel and pushed into the bar.
“Beer,” requested Gin-gin. “Beer,”
said Walters. The barman did his stuff,
they downed the drinks, contemplated
each other with satisfaction, repeated
the treatment and signified greater satis-
faction. “She was a good go,” said
Gin-gin to Warroo. “Too right,” War-
roo affirmed. “I thought y’ had me about
two mile this side o’ Moonbi,” Gin-gin
confessed. Waroo grinned. “Y’ always
was a cunnin’ ol’ coot,” he said.
“Dammit, I knew y’d beat me when I took
the bet.” They turned to the barman.
“Beer,” they said. He obeyed the order
and asked, “What ha’ you blokes got
on?” “We bin at Moonbi,” Gin-gin
said. “Ol’ Warroo bet me half a nicker
he could race me from the pub there t’
here. Beat him be half a length. Half
a length right, mate?” “She’s right,”
Warroo admitted, “but I thought I had
y’ about two mile out.” The barman
looked at them. “That’s a bit hard on
y’r horses, isn’t it?” he said. “Gallop-
in’ ’em from Moonbi t’ here*.” “We only
got one horse,” Gin-gin said. “That’s
where the luck comes in. Y’ see, we
tossed t’ see which one would ride in
front, an I won. /Beer.” The barman
looked dumbly at Warroo. “Beer,” said
that worthy.
« « * *
“Zake”: Regularly every morning a
cricket begins his chirping outside my
window. This, I have heard it claimed, is
the mating call; but I refuse to believe
that any female cricket could be so lack-
ing in musical taste that such a drearily
monotonous sound could stir her to
tender thoughts of the minstrel. But the
call seems to urge others of the species
to sharpen up their rasps and get to work,
and soon a chorus is going full belt.
Sometimes -1 have risen in my wrath,
gone out and smote the ground with
something heavy, and immediately every
cricket will cease his impassioned trou-
badouring instanter. There will be a
fairly long silence, which will be broken
at last by a tentative call from sdme hero
who has apparently elected to risk de-
struction by revealing his whereabouts.
But actually he runs no risk. I have often
had a cricket chirp within, I’ll swear, a
couple of feet of me; but the location of
the sound has always remained madden-
ingly elusive.
« * * «
“Lower Tops’l”: Snapper-fishing on a
ground off Point Wilson (Vic.), we kept
losing bottoms, so in desperation we threw
over a large baited hook attached to a
wire trace. The culprit was a thorny-
backed skate, 6ft. from jaw to tail-tip,
and when we turned him over he had a
beard like Father Neptune’s, only with
a difference. It was composed of a
festoon of snoods and lines leading from
a rim of hooks around the jaw—42 in
all, some of which were nearly rusted
away.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: Mention of
the Australian gannet (B. 23/2/’49)
recalls that this bird —a shade smaller
than his North Sea counterpart and with
more coloring—was first discovered by
Europeans at a most fitting time for the
crew of Captain Cook’s Endeavor on her
first voyage. Sir Joseph Banks recorded
that on Christmas Eve, 1769, when near
the Three Kings (Maoriland), a boat’s
crew from the ship killed several gannets
or solan geese. As it was the humor of
the ship to keep Christmas it was de-
cided to have goose-pie for the morrow’s
dinner. Next day, he recounts, “our
goose-pie was eaten with great approba-
tion.” But imagine eating gannet!;
“Wippegong”: Thin, silver-green foli-
age hangs motionless like living lace
against a sky of cloudless blue. The
branches below are rough, but with a
pattern in them; the narrow scales of
bark curl at the ends, and in this late
sunlight some limbs look so like big
lizards that they seem to be crawling
away. The ground is littered with dead
leaves, thin branches and thick, stumpy
forks, and the sliced ends of these show
a core of deep brown heartwood sur-
rounded by a thin band that was a rich
yellow till the weather dulled it. The
poles that were taken are now rails in
a new stockyard, but among that rubbish
left is the only movement visible. Two
patches of soft green shuffle in the grass,
then one of them turns sideways and
reveals a splash of brilliant orange across
the shoulder. Both are side-on now,
and the warm evening light catches the
yellow on forehead and undercarriage—
then there’s a sudden mad commotion
behind me, an alarm-cry as in a flurry
of color the feeders leave the ground,
and I swing round and let fly a boot
at the disturber of the peace. He’s a
faithful old mong, Nigger, but he ought
to know better than to stand up and
shake himself when I’m watching a pair
of mulga parrots feeding in a clump of
gidgee.
* * * *
“Bo”: While McNally was in the town-
ship for the day a couple of his cows
broke down the dividing fence and got
into Hennessy’s property, and by the
time Hennessy had discovered the
depredations the McNally kine had
swiped half his crop of young cauli-
flowers. The rest were trampled under
the hooves ol: the intruders as Hennessy
tried desperately to manceuvre them back
to the broken fence. The aggrieved one
dwelt on the coming-home of McNally
late that afternoon and furiously de-
manded compensation. Mac listened
gravely, opined that the fault lay pri-
marily with Hennessy for flagrantly
tempting his (McNally’s) cows by grow-
ing succulent vegetables in close
proximity to them, and finally, wheij
Hennessy threatened “to have the law
on him,” agreed that some compensation
for the loss wasn’t exactly out of order,
They were just about'to open up negotia-
tions to reach a figure mutually satisfac-
tory to both when Mrs. H. came to the
kitchen-door and yelled to her spouse
that he was wanted on the phone. As
Hennessy turned to go Mac said, “I’m
in a hurry meself. I’ll send Donald over
with it. I promise to make guid every
cauliflower ye lost, Hennessy.” The next
day Donald came over and handed
Hennessy an envelope. It contained two
sixpenny packets of cauliflower-seed.
* * * ♦
“The 0.D.”: A fearful apparition
appeared in the streets of the Sydney
suburb of Mosman the other week,
emitted awful screams and made a dread-
ful attack on a resident. According to
the Sydney paper which reported it,
people ran “into the street” and “found
Mr. Jack Ezzy struggling with a bird
which had bitten him and gashed his
finger.” It appeared that Mr. Ezzy
“jumped from his car and chased the
bird, cornered it and dazzled it by shin-
ing a torch into its eyes.” Mr. Ezzy is
reported as saying that it “grabbed me
with its long yellow beak and let out
terrifying squeals.” He took it to his
garage. He had “never seen anything
like it.” He proposed to consult the
Zoo. He described it as “between lOin.
and 12in. tall, long-legged, brown with
all-blue breast and a red, leather-like
crest.” I suppose Mr. Ezzy, the news-
paper reporter, and the people who ran
into the streets had all heard the expres-
sion, “ran like a redshank,” yet appa-
rently none of them recognised one when
they saw it.
♦ * * *
“Mat’s Mate”; The big fellow was
eating apples on the railway siding when
I fouhd him, and I noted that he carefully
dropped the refuse into an empty fire-
bucket beside him. “No doubt about the
service here,” he said happily. “Bag o’
apples left open so people waitin’ can
help themselves. Good apples, too.” I
sampled one, and was about half-way
through it when he grabbed it, dropped it
into the bucket, picked up the bucket,
and with a very busy air made for the
water-tank at the end of the platform.
A man had appeared and he went straight
to that bag of apples. “Hey,” he yelled
at Mat, “What’s goin’ on here? Who
busted into the’se apples?” Mat put the
bucket of evidence under the tap, turned
the water on and leaned against the tank.
“I wouldn’t know, mate,” he said. “I’m
only a fettler, sent to fill up the fire-
buckets an’ that.” The man looked at
me. “Who’re you?” he demanded. “He’s
me ruddy ganger,” Mat sang out.
“Wouldn’t put it past him. All gangers’d
take y’ down if they could.” The apple-
owner looked at me sympathetically.
“Funny,” he said, “how these blokes
pick y’ because y’re the boss. Oh, well,
I reckon nobody ate them apples. Just as
well, too; I sprinkled some arsenic on
the top ones in case the rats or crows
got at ’em.’-’ He hurried away. So did we.
The doctor we found assured us, after
the emetic had nearly ruined us, that he
thought the fellow was joking.
* * * ♦
“Master Bevel”: In sheds I have been
in, two good pen-mates always shear the
“cobbler” (B. 23 /3 / ’49) turn about; and
often they will take it in turns to shear
all the rough sheep each run. One man
takes all the rough sheep one run and his
mate takes them the next, and by shear-
ing along like this two reasonably fast
men have been known to break the hearts
of some of the “hungry guns” by the
time the shed is cut out. The man who
always goes for the easy sheep, letting
his mate in for the “cobbler” every time,
soon strikes trouble.
*** * ♦
“Gravelsnatcher”: Since “Betcha” was
surprised when his sleepy lizard, alias
blue-tongue, attacked his belligerent
shovel (B. 2/ 3/ ’49), I must assume that
the reptile has little in common with his
Westralian cousin. The bloke we call
the sleepy lizard, or blue-tongue, or bob-
“ Orright! Orright ! We Wont be
long!"
tail goanna, is a slow-moving beast who
deceives newcomers into assuming that
he’s too tired to raid a fowl-house. Nine
out of ten who essay a road-crossing
come to a sticky end beneath a wheel,
and one of them disturbed in a shady
hide-out is as hard to shift as a safe-
seated politician. But they’ll all fight.
Those powerful jaws snap at anything
from the intruding boot to the stiek with
which they are tossed aside. They look
capable of amputating a finger, and the
old belief that a bite from a blue-tongue
causes a sore that will break out again
at the same time each year is still be-
lieved.
“B. A. Ker”: The sleepy old blue-
tongue generally fills the female of our
species with horror (B.' 23 /3 / ’49) unless
she is a bush-bred girl. My wife is not;
a fact that compels me to be a reluctant,
cold-blooded murderer three or four times
a season. The family dog, an immense
hound'that could have been sired by a
Shetland pony, is an accessory before
•and after the fact—but never an active
participant in the dark deed. He in-
variably starts the disturbance by finding
one of the reptiles within 50yd. of the
house. If the wife isn’t home he puts
in a happy hour barking madly from a
safe distance at the softly-swearing
creature. When thoroughly exhausted
he withdraws, has a drink, dozes in the
sun for an hour or two, then, fortified
for another session, finds the intruder
again (the brainless reptile” having hidden
under the nearest object instead of hot-
footing it back to the scrub) and the noisy
performance goes on as before. But
when the feminine partner is home he
promptly calls in his ally. As soon as
the first exuberance of the find has worn
off he is down at the house telling tales ;
and within five minutes I am informed:
“Paddy’s got a lizard bailed up; don’t
let it get away. I might tread on it in
the dark.” The job generally means
shifting a score or two of fence-posts or
a big stack of palings before the creature
can be brought to injustice. Paddy,
meanwhile, keeps well out of the lizard’s
way and well in mine. The moment the
axe has fallen, however, he rushes in,
seizes the deceased reptile, and bears it
triumphantly down to the house to do a
bit of skiting. At the last murder he
made a slight error. Because of the
awkward “lie” the axe landed halfway
down “Bluey’s” spine. Paddy rushed in
—and the next second was racing madly
up the paddocks as half a lizard hung
by its closed jaws from his upper lip!
For the benefit of the diehards, the dog
didn’t develop an annually-recurring sore.
The skin wasn’t even broken.
“Tibet”; Even with two
fox-squealers working the
district, competition had
been keen enough. Instead
of waiting till July, when
the skins were at their top,
Harry started ‘“squealing”,
in’June, to beat the other
bloke; and hearing of it,
Ned began the following
season in May. After that
they were both flat-out in
April. Then young Robbie
joined the game, and I
kept an eye open to see what
would happen. Towards
the end of March I spotted
Harry working the hill
country behind the creek,
and a few weeks later dis-
covered Ned going oyer the
same ground. Through the following
weeks the two carefully “squealed”' the
whole district, and I saw nothing of the
new bloke until early September. Then
I caught sight of Robbie creeping up a
scrubby gully, and standing quietly be-
hind a yellow-box I waited while he tried
vainly to get a rise. As he moved on I
hailed. First he looked startled, then,
recognising me, came over. “Don’t let
on t’ the others I been here, will you?”
he greeted. “Don’t want ’em to get wise
to me.” “No; but you’re miles too late,
kid,” I pointed out. “Harry and Ned
have finished. They skinned out this
patch months ago.” “Yes, I know,” he
grinned. “I ain’t worried about that.
Y’ see, it’s next year’s catch I’m after.”
« * * T
“Konjil”: Regarding those Damascus
blades (B. 9/3/’49), the ancient and
earliest way of making steel was to build
a fire-resistant chimney-furnace about
20ft. tall, at the foot a sand-hearth and
an opening by which draught might be
controlled and the reduced iron with-
drawn. Beginning with a thick bed of
charcoal covered with a layer of iron
ore, such filling was carried in alternate
layers to the top. Fired, this furnace
speedily reduced the ore to metallic iron,
almost free from combined carbon. De-
livered on the hearth as a white-hot
metallic sponge, conditions inside the.
furnace not being favorable for complete
melting, this was raked out and subjected
to immediate forging, resulting in a very
soft wrought-iron, such as is still turned
out by the primitive ironsmiths of
Africa. Such iron, worked down into*
thin blades, might be turned to steel by
“soaking”—that is, leaving it lie for vary-
ing periods in a bed of red-hot charcoal,
which enabled the iron to absorb carbon;
the presence of a limited amount of which
gives iron that hardness which*we (fall
steel. Hardness, coupled with extra
toughness and flexibility, might also be
varied, unwittingly to the primitive
smiths, by small amounts of nickel, man-
ganese and other metals resident in the
ore. Iron forged directly off the smelt-
ing hearth carried a stringy grain, such
as may still be seen on breaking a bar
of old-fashioned wrought-iron. After-
wards the more ingenious smiths learned
that, by twisting and overlaying layers
©f the iron as they forged, it was pos-
sible to bring out patterns in the finished
blade. Finally such patterns might be
brought up and emphasised by burying
the forged blade for a time in damp
earth, the less-carbonised fibres rusting
away more rapidly than those carrying a
higher percentage of carbon. Thus, under
the hands of craftsmen who had inherited
the ironsmith craft of a thousand years,
the crescents of the Damascus blossomed
forth in perfection,
SUMMER EVENING, HOPE
VALLEY.
All lost, the wavering haze of heat,
The, golden bands of paddock-wheat,
fSSh ISS?£S% In to™Sse ,KeS
The critical eye in distant sweep
As much as shade the panting sheep:
Reduced by grey, impersonal night
To a canvas colder, yet more great;
To bamboos etched against the sky
With Japanese simplicity, *
To a frail moon hung between two stars,
Reflected here in broken bars
Narrowed to this faint of white
Grasses compassing the road.
Beyond an inchoate mass, the broad
Plains of daylight cloaked and blurred
And silent; nothing seen or heard
Except where, pricked in points of light,
The city trembles, faintly bright,
And chirring crickets gently stress
The peace of summer •
S A>
NANCY CATO.


“Telarb”: A recent visitor to Saibai
Island left shortly afterwards taking with
him a very painful memory. He was
standing on the beach in the dusk watch-
ing the cargo-girls unloading a boat (only
the women carry cargo in the Torres
Straits —the bucks just sit and offer
advice). One of the dusky beauties flashed
him a smile as she went past staggering
under a couple of bags of flour. Absently
he smiled back. That was enough. He had
clicked, but he didn’t know it. On her
way back to the beach she came up behind
him and pinched him affectionately. A
pinch from these girls means taking
a fistful of flesh over the region of one’s
kidneys and reducing it to pulp with the
palm, fingers and nails of both hands.
Emitting an ear-splitting yell he whirled
around, and as she stood demure and
simpering before him he quickly circled
and put the boot into her stern-sheets.
She was a disappointed and disillusioned
maid, while he had the job of explaining
to his missus—who was awake-up to the
Saibai girls—that he was entirely innocent.
* * * *
“Mabuiag”: The cult of Waiatt the
Augad (B. 6/4/’49) included certain fes-
tivities. There are two versions. One
tells that on one night of each year the
priests of Waiatt summoned all Murray
Islanders over 12 and under 40 and in-
discriminately mated them to maintain
the population at a safe level. The
second is that the priests went through
the villages selecting maidens to be taken
to Waiar to become the brides of the god ;
i.e., of the priests themselves. Extra-
marital relations at other times were
severely punished by tribal law. It is in-
teresting to note that the Murray people
have opened a museum of their own now
in which they have one of the original
Drums of Mer. They want old Waiatt
back now in his own home, but so far
authority has turned a deaf ear to their
request.
* * * *
“Gouger”; The Australian buffalo-
shooter differs in his methods from that
of his opposite numbers in Africa and
India. There they shoot on foot, gener-
ally using beaters. To get a buffalo a
day is considered a good quota. Also,
the hunter must stop the buffalo with a
h.-v. bullet of exceptional shock-power,
otherwise he is in for trouble. Here, two
shooters, working in partnership, must
get from a dozen to a score of bulls a
day to make the game pay. Quite often
they could get more, but their native
skinners couldn’t keep up with them.
Sometimes two shooters may get a bag
of up to 20 in a couple of hours. They
ride out on the plains at dawn. Buffaloes,
in small herds, emerge everywhere from
the clumps of pandanus, a bull leading.
The others gradually follow until , each
little herd is in single line. Then the
hunter gallops after them. He may be
armed with a .303, though a sawn-off .44
Winchester, used similarly to a revolver,
is a favorite. As the horseman draws
near, the herd breaks into a lumbering
trot. He gallops along the line, picking
out only the bulls. Bending slightly over
the saddle, sawn-off rifle generally at
arm’s length, he aims at the thinnest
portion of the hide along the backbone.
After getting all the selected beasts along
the flying herd, the hunter gallops back,
finishing off each stricken buffalo. With
such close shooting there is little necessity
for a bullet of high velocity.
* * * ♦
“Golden Mile”; The civilisation which
two thousand years hence regains pos-
session of this world may strike some
odd surprises. Recently I assisted in the
sealing of an abandoned goldmine.
Situated in a populous area, the 2000 ft.
pit was a menace so long as it remained
open. Nor were materials or labor avail-
able for filling it in-; which, again, to a
generation contemplating the lethal
sibilities of the atomic bomb, was not
altogether desired. Starting from surface
we dug down, 4ft. wide all around, to
the bedrock, 10ft, below. Then, covering
the gaping 12ft. x 3ft. 6in. mouth with
4in. planks, we built over all a thick bee-
hive-shaped mound of clay. This gave
the necessary dome formation, essential
for maximum strength. Over this clay
dome was then poured 2ft. of concrete,
the upper surface conforming to the
shape of the dome. When dry this con-
crete cover made a seal as strong and
unbreakable as the rock itself. The area
was then levelled and the foundations laid
of a house to be built on the spot. But
“Saved any lives lately? ”
one can readily envisage investigators
ages hence stumbling on such a dome,
recognising it as man-made, fracturing it
with explosive, only to find an ancient
goldmine.
* * * *
“Uncle Alfy”: Think it was “Kelms”
who about a year ago predicted (ac-
curately) a dry winter in W.A., basing
his prophecy on the absence of wild gum-
blossom. If there is anything in his theory
Westralians should get busy damp-proof-
ing walls and mending leaks before the
deluge starts. The Darling Range and
metropolitan trees are laden with blos-
soms, /
* ♦ * ♦
' “Solitude”: Seventyfiver was chuckling
to himself when 1 overtook him at the
boundary, and as we stripped the nags
I again caught the sound of his low,
throaty rumble. “What’s so funny, any-
way?” I asked, “Aw, it’s Blue,” he
grinned. “Silly cow. Remember me
sayin’ I set a trap under the dog-fence
in Long Gully? Well, Blue knew it was
there. He’s been up every day t’ have
a look if anything was in it. Then, t’day,
he—hee, hee —got chasin’ a wallaby,
an’ clean f’got, till he was in it. Gripes,
you should’ve heard ’im.” Seventyfiver
paused to look round, and immediately
the mong limped up and whiningly pre-
sented a paw for inspection. “Aw, g’on,
it was y’r other hoof.” Blue swapped
over, offered the other one, and added
another whinge of self-pity. “No, it was
y’r own fault,” chided the old bloke,
turning to enter the shed. “Y’ shouldn’t’ve
f’got. Y’ knew very well it was —
hell!” There was a bellow from the
shed, followed by a flood of unadul-
terated Australian. Blue and I risked a
long-range investigation, and discovered
the old coot hoofing out some sort of
war-dance and hugging his ribs. “Gripes,
Sol,” he howled, kicking viciously into
space, “I told y’ this mornin’ when y’
put it there that was a silly damn’ place
t’ set for rats.”
♦ * * •
“S.E.”: It was Gingabeer’s first inspec-
tion of the outback road. The job was
an all-day one, and he’d brought no
lunch. As the jackasses chimed midday
“Have you set the alarm-calendar?"
he sought friendship with a home-return-
ing farmer, found his tactics unavailing,
and drove on to the next homestead.
There his remarks on the distance from
a hotel and his omission to bring lunch,
together with a request for a drink of
water, brought nothing but a glassful
from the waterbag. He returned to work.
The result of his inspection showed the
necessity of a short new survey, and a
few weeks later he returned to the spot,
accompanied by the town surveyor. For
several hours they went over the job,
then Gingabeer glanced at his watch.
“One o’clock,” he announced, “Did you
bring any lunch?” “No.” “Then you’ll
excuse me,” he murmured politely, “while
I have mine.” He pulled a thermos and
package from the car and began hoeing
in to a pile of sandwiches. The
surveyor strolled hopefully nearer. “My
word, you brought plenty,” he remarked.
“Yes. Man’s silly to starve himself,”
was the reply, “and I always had a big
appetite.” “I’d have brought some, too,”
explained the surveyor, “but 1 thought
perhaps we’d get a meal at one of the
houses out here.” “Got caught like that
once myself,” scowled G., biting into the
last sandwich, “but I soon found out the
folks round here are so lousy they won’t
even ask a man in to dinner.”
* * * •
“Betcha”: Maybe “Jim N.’s” shearers
(B. 16/3/’49) are different. Those I’m
used to belong to a class that is exclusive,
and incomprehensively superior. Over-
heard two of the youthful initiated com-
menting on the political opinion of a
grey-haired grazier. “Him /” snorted one
of the faithful contemptuously. “Gripes,
what’s ’e know about politics or finance
’n’ things! Why, I betcha the pore cow’s
never shore a flamin’ sheep in ’is life.”
* * * *
“Mr. C.”: All scientists don’t agree
with “Bogaduck” (B. 30/3 4’49) regarding
the engulfing of parts of the earth (with
most of the local population) in recent
geological times. Hans Hoerbiger, a
Viennese astronomer, propounded the
theory that the moon was originally an
independent planet moving around the
sun, its orbit being between those of the
earth and of Mars. About 15,000 years
ago, says Hoerbiger, moon and earth
came close enough for the earth’s gravi-
tational pull to capture the moon as a
satellite. Result was to draw our oceans
towards the tropics, creating something
of an equatorial belt of water and result-
ing in the engulfing of Atlantis and the
forming of the Mediterranean at the ex-
pense of the seas in the north and south
polar regions. The shock to the earth
from acquiring a satellite caused severe
earthquakes, accounting for many of the
great rifts and canyons on the earth’s
surface. Using Hoerbiger’s theory as a
basis, H. S. Bellamy, mythologist and
historian, has written several books on
earth’s geological history. They make
fascinating reading.
* * * *
“Übet”: Ted was picking up in
neighbor Woolly’s shed, and, being short
of feed for his milker, asked the boss
about selling him a bag of chaff each
week, “Sure,” answered the old bloke.
“Help y’self out of the shed, and keep
count of what you get, will you?” A
couple of weeks later, with the woolshed
held up through rain. Woolly was passing
Ted’s place, when the latter hailed him.
“I better get a cheque orf y’, t’ go on
with,” he called. “An’ I got a bag o*
chaff, so y’ c’n take orf the price o’ that.”
“Just one bag?” asked the old bloke. “I
thought you wanted one each week.”
“Well, I only got one,” said Ted stoutly.
“Don’t think a bloke’s mug enough t’ pay
fT more’n he gets, do y’? What y’ get an’
no more’s my motto. One bag, an’ give
us a cheque for the rest o’ the fortnight,
an’ we’ll be square.” “A fortnight? Why,
Ted, you only did three days’ pickin’ up,”
complained Woolly. “The rest of the
time you’ve been home here working on
your own place.” “Well, c’n / help it if
it rains every coupla days an’ keeps y’r
sheep wet?” the hand demanded trucu-
lently. “You hired me, didn’t y’? An’
the rules says y’ got t’ pay me, wet or fine,
till the job’s done. Gripes, surely that’s
fair enough f’r anybody.”
* * * #
“Old Camp”: “Solitude’s” Seventy-
fiver was dead flash in his yearning for
a new towel (B. 16/3/’49). Wasn’t there
an empty sugarbag, or even a chaffbag,
around? Boiling for an hour softens
the fibre, and eliminates any latent
anthrax or other germs. Such a section
of treated jute would feel to the old
stockman’s weather-beaten epidermis like
the caress of swansdown.
* * ♦ »
“Blime”: Was in the blacksmith’s shop
the other day when a little brown mare
walked in and ranged herself in the
shoeing corner. There seemed to be no
one with her, and 1 looked at Smithie
inquiringly. “Belongs to Tim Maloney,
about eight miles out,” he grinned. “Tim
must’ve sent her in.” One after the other
he picked up her feet and examined them.
“Yair,” he grunted, “she needs doin’.”
He patted the mare, talked to her, gave
her the apple out of his lunch bag, and
proceeded to fix her up with a set of
shoes. Between whiles the mare followed
him round, nibbled his braces, pulled his
shirt out; but, with the shoes ready, stood
quietly while they were nailed. The job
finished, Smithie eyed his handiwork and
led the nag to the door. “Righto, old
girl, you’re done,” he remarked, giving
her a friendly slap on the rump. “Better
scoot off home. Oh, and Brown ”
The mare paused and looked back,
“Better tell Tim he owes me twelve bob
for that lot, will y’? It’s gorn up.”
* * * *
“Brian Bureau”: Before going cod-
fishing Dagger Datton and a party of
locals were having a drink in the town-
ship pub when a stranger, resplendent in
fashionable sporting attire and carrying
a light fishing-rod, strode into the bar.
Haughtily declining a proffered drink,
he kept aloof in solitary grandeur at the
other end of the counter. Datton and his
companions murmured their resentment
of the stranger’s churlishness, then
curiosity asserted itself and they began
to speculate upon the feather-trimmed
bit of millinery on his head. “Aw, now
I’ve tumbled to them feathers round his
hat,” suddenly declared Dagger. “They’re
flies —he fishes with ’em.” “Well, wot if
he does?” snarled still-resentful Swivel
Smith. “That’s no flamin’ excuse fer him
dilnkin’ with ’em.”
* * * *
“Billy T.”; The most bewildered bird
I ever saw was a black hen ihat spent
an entire afternoon standing stock-still
in the middle of a dusty road in front of
a wine-shanty. The day had begun nor-
mally enough; with others of its kind
this chook had wandered across from the
old slab shed where it roosted and
gathered a crop-full of grasshoppers in
the little paddock between the shanty and
the creek ; then as the day warmed they
headed back for their customary spell in
the shade of a big elm. It was then that
a wagonette came crawling up the road,
to stop in front of the painted sign; and
at that moment our chook, trailing a
little behind the others, was obstructed
by a Shape. It darted off to one side, but
the obstruction was quicker and the fowl
skidded to a stop, wheeled in the other
direction and met the same interference
before it had gone a yard. Then, under
the delusion common amongst domestic
fowls that they can still fly, it squawked
and shot up into the air; but when it
landed that dominating presence was
waiting exactly in front. A bit blown
by this time, the bird stood still and
appeared to be taking stock of the posi-
tion ; this suited the enemy—he just
settled down, nose on paws, and stared
at the feathered quarry. And, except
for minor attempts at escape, always
instantly foiled, thus they stayed; a silly,
stiff statue facing a sleek figure in relaxed
repose. For this was on the main stock-
route to the snow leases. On the way
up the drovers had no time to waste, but
once the big mobs were delivered they
dawdled back, collecting the skins they’d
hung on fences months before, and
spending a day or two at spots that in-
vited dalliance. Possibly the kelpie had
vague memories of that shanty, reckoned
the boss would be delayed a while, and
reckoned he’d better keep his hand in on
anything offering until such times as he
could again work sheep.
WHEN THE FIRE SINKS LOW.
It is getting late and the fire is low,
The coals are dying and few,
The last of the log is burning slow,
One flickering flame burns blue;
The hut is sinking into the dark,
The roof looks dim and far ;
One pale and solitary soaring spark
Flies out like a tiny star.
The log-end cracks with a loud report
And sinks in the grave of its ash
And a lost wild wind with doom is fraught
And green is the lightning’s flash.
Away in the hills a yixen screams
And a dog howls on its chain;
And in the corner it almost seems
As if someone moved again.
Why does the silence tell of ill
And loneliness hug the dark;
Why is each thing in the hut so still,
Aloof, unfriendly and stark?
A floorboard’s creak is the only sound,
Except for the night’s refrain,
Where the restless wind goes roaming round,
And the vixen screams again.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


Men Who Know Wine.
Know
kiit> mom
SANDERS
<%&*FILES
Correspondence, invoices.
•totement&. etc., filed In the ’ * %
“Sanders" can be securely price* anil fir-
bound and converted Into a lber i n f„ r inat»o»
perfect book of reference at upon application
the end of each n.onth —or
any other period.
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
£
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PERTH
W C Penfold A Co. Pty. Ltd.
• Norman Bros, Ply. Ltd.
Vardoo A Son* Ltd.
k Docket Book Co (AuM
m
$
Does your Will
express your
present wishes?
TyrOW is a good time to review your Will and to ask
1 ' yourself whether it expresses yom present wishes.
In doing so carefully consider your choice of Execu-
tor. The duties have never been so arduous as now.
An ever increasing number of professional and
business men are appointing Perpetual Trustee Company
Limited as Executor. They recognise that an Executor’s
duties are highly specialised; they recognise the value
of the experience and protection provided by the
Company.
You are invited to call and discuss your Estate
problems, in confidence, with a senior officer of the
Company.
If you prefer, write for a copy of the Company’s
booklet, “Your Executor and Trustee,” that explains the
services rendered by the Company and what they cost.
PERPETUAL
TRUSTEE COMPANY LIMITED
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE
UNDER ADMINISTRATION _ AGENT UNDER POWER OP
EXCEED £67,000,000 (the • ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES
average Estate being less than & OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR,
£10,000). ET C.
Directors:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.Q., Chairman; E. R. KNOX;
ALLEN C. LEWIS; Hon. J. P. ABBOTT, M.H.R.; D. R. LYSAGHT;
SAMUEL HORDERN; H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director.
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Manager.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WAGGA WAGGA, TAM WORTH and ORANGE
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Shares and Costs
Official controls went off share
prices as from January 20, 1947,
though there had been a period
of gradual decontrol over the
preceding year. The Sydney in-
dex of industrial-share prices
rose from 173.85 in January,
1947, to 190.34 in January, 1948.
In January, 1949, the average
was 186.46, and last week the
index was 166.7. The general
level of the market for industrial
shares last week, in spite of some
recovery from the recent heavy
fall, was thus lower than in the
first month of decontrol.
By contrast, in January, 1947,
the general index of export
prices was 2150. In December,
1948, it was 3714. There have
since been falls in lead, zinc and
other metals, and wool has
weakened by perhaps 10 p.c.,
but export prices all round are
far higher than in 1947.
In January, 1947, the average
weekly-wage index stood at 144.
For the September quarter of
1949 it was 169. In the same
period the average weekly-hour
index dropped from 43.57 to
40. This hourly index may
be assumed to still be opera-
tive, but the wage index is
not available for the first quarter
of 1949. However, the basic
wage has risen from 106 s. in the
first quarter of 1947 to 1225. for
the first quarter of 1949. Further
rises are in prospect.
With the fall in the weekly
hours worked (since the begin-
ning pf 1948) and the rise in
wage-rates there has been a stiff
'rise in manufacturing costs over
the past two years. This rise
has been aggravated by the in-
adequacy of coal production,
which has meant a lack of other
essential raw materials and fuel
for industry as a whole, slower
production tempo, time wasted
(and time costs more money than
ever before) and general indus-
trial frustration —all at the cost
of industry in the first place, and
much of it later at the expense
of the consumer, including the
trade-unionist who works fewer
hours now for more money, goes
on strike more often and, in
some industries, is generally be-
having as a rfuisance in our
economy. The effect of these
higher cqsts is to force a further
increase in the paper-money
basic wage and to reduce the
standard of living.
The only way in which the
rise in production costs will be
stopped is by a greater produc-
tion per man per hour. Such a
development would also im-
prove the standard of living of
the wage-earner, especially with
price-control operating to his
advantage. With a greater
national output all industry
should benefit, and this idiotic
prospect of inflation, instability
and deliberate trade-union in-
dustrial suicide dissipated.
Trade-unionists are getting
nowhere in their mad, Com-
munist-led demands for more
wages regardless of production.
And the proprietary side of in-
dustry is suffering in the
struggle ; its ability to plan on
bigger, more comprehensive and
more efficient lines is frustrated,
and shareholders’ prospects of a
more reasonable return on their
money is deferred. It is this rise
in internal costs, this frustration
of production, that should be of
more concern to investors than
possibilities of some fall in over-
seas price levels.
Sharemarket prospects depend
principally in Australia upon a
recovery in coal production, a
rise in man-hour output
generally, a steadying in costs
and a return to competition as
the chief factor in controlling
prices and profits. The vested
interests of larrikin and Corn-
munistic trade-unionism have to
be defeated before much head-
way will be made in that direc-
tion. Moderate trade-unionism
and investors should both look
forward to such a defeat. No-
body except a small parasitic
minority can raise their standard
of living by disrupting the means
of production, distribution and
exchange. The unsatisfied
material demands of this coun-
try shriek out for the smoothest
and most efficient running of
those means.
Exchange Rate
When Maoriland appreciated
its pound in August, Mr. Chifley
indicated that Australia wouldn’t
follow suit as long as sterling
maintained its exchange-rate
with the dollar. The first move
would be left to Britain.
The Australian desire not to
compromise the British pound
was especially understandable
at that time —just after sterling
had been shaken somewhat in
the “convertibility crisis” of
July. Besides the element of
“face” in any reduction of sterl-
ing’s value against the £A, there
were practical reasons why the
move would have been unhelp-
ful to Britain. From the British
viewpoint, indeed, appreciation
of the £A would have produced
results, in the restricted U.K.-
Australian trading sphere, simi-
lar to the general results of a
British depreciation.
The classical purposes of a
currency depreciation are to en-
courage exports or to discourage
imports, or both. But Britain
had no occasion last year to spur
on her exporters, because they
were easily selling all they could
produce. And, likewise, there
was no wish to discourage im-
ports by making them more
costly to British purchasers;
practically all her imports were
dear, but essential foodstuffs en-
tering in minimum quantities, or
raw materials needed to keep the
industrial wheels turning. The
Chancellor, Stafford Cripps, pro-
nounced emphatically against
devaluation, while some British
economists, like R. G. Hawtrey,
were even advocating an appre-
ciation of sterling eight months
ago. *
How much has the British
attitude changed since then?
Most of her export markets have
stiffened, and this process must
be expected to continue as post-
war vacuums are filled and as
European competitors (especially
German) get back on their feet.
Moreover, some British imports
have become less expensive.
Non-ferrous metals are falling
in price, and the new tentative
wheat agreement stipulates an
immediate maximum price per
bushel that is 20 cents less than
the maximum proposed last year
(but rejected by U.S. Congress).
With all the United Kingdom’s
economic recovery to date, her
problem of a heavy dollar deficit
abides. The deficiency for the
whole sterling area is currently
estimated at £390 million sterl-
ing a year. Even in the present
half-year E.R.P. receipts will not
be sufficient to bridge the dollar
gap without calling in some
assistance from drawings on the
International Monetary Fund.
As E.R.P. is reduced or ceases
altogether, the necessity for
boosting “dollar exports” will
become still more acute. There
is every possibility that deprecia-
tion of sterling will be resorted
to eventually as part of the ex-
port drive, but the timing may
depend on political as much as
economic considerations.
This timing may have im-
portant implications for Aus-
tralia. Mr. Chifley, who has
lately reiterated that Australia
won’t take the initiative in ap-
preciating her £, has never sug-
gested there would be an auto-
matic upward revaluation
against sterling if the latter
should depreciate. The British
move might well be timed as a
counter - measure against a
general recession in world trade,
and that would be an inappro-
priate time for raising the £A.
The general risks attending an
Australian appreciation have
previously been stressed by The
Bulletin. At a time when our
“ I'm expecting an investigator from taxation."
export income was already
suffering in a general recession,
the step might be a disastrous
aggravation.
The Powell-Duffryn Technical
Services group, including the
director, D. G. Hemmant, de-
parted from Brisbane last month
f° r Britain, having completed
th® field-work on Queensland
®°al resources. This was the job
that Premier Hanlon brought
them out to do last year. To date
tb® job has cost over £44,000,
and cost may be nearly doubled
before the Premier gets the re-
P ort > which will be drawn up
* n Britain. This may be avail-
able in July, and the Govern-
ment, if the report is going to
lead to increased development
of present fields, will be faced
with immediate problems to
move the extra coal to ports.
These include new railways, re-
conditioning of present lines re-
garding gradients, heavier rails
and extra locos and coal-wagons.
At present there is a bottleneck
in the railways at Blair Athol,
where the two opencuts are cap-
able of expanding outputs.
Powell-Duffryn have left a skele-
ton staff in Brisbane, and ‘with
an Australian geologist and two
local teams of drillers they are
carrying on investigations for
Power and Tractor Finance Co.
* * * *
Anyone who feels he is not
being treated fairly in the pro-
posed incorporation of A, B, C
and H series of bondholders in
Afforestation (Aust.) Pty., Ltd.,
may make a complaint to the
Victorian Attorney - General,
giving evidence in the form of a
statutory declaration or affidavit,
If the complaint indicates that
an investigation under the Corn-
panics (Special Investigations)
Act, 1940, is justified, the
Attorney-General’s Department
will proceed w|th an investiga-
tion.


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
Jk
a
% RUM
HOSPITAL
Sydney Hospital in Jsl6
Governor Macquarie, lacking funds to build an y
urgently needed Hospital, decided to recompense tHe
contractors by giving them a virtual monopoly of
tbe import of rum into tHe Colony. THus Sydney
Hospital became locally known as “THe Rum
Hospital”.
At tHat time, currency in tHe settlement, mostly
Spanish dollars, was very scarce and trading con-
ditions were- cHaotic. Goods and services were
paid for in rum, a practice tHat brougHt all sorts
of abuses, misery and degradation in its train.
In 1817, to overcome these Handicaps, tHe Bank
of New South Wales wSs established. For over
150 years the Bank Has served the best interests of
the community. Throughout its long and Honour-
able History it Has always played a leading part in
the development of this great country.
Consult and use
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
THE PEOPLE'S BANK SINCE 1817
Incorporated in New South Wales with limited liability
A49OSD
WHERE CtCalatCM MOVE MERCHANDISE MOVES
if®
' •
■
1 i
MM i
i
mm
m '
ii
fig* miwm
mpi
__ —- iii: WtKkmmm
tif t **i«*
NE " e s c a** t ° b s IT ,
v, !.j» «**»uss
★
]Veu> Installations
of Post-war Design
OTIS ESCALATORS
ADELAIDE« Myer Emporium
(SA.) Ltd 4
BRISBANE: McWhirters Ltd 6
MELBOURNE: Myer Emporium Ltd. ... i 2
Manton & Sons Ltd 4 >Sk.
SYDNEY: Anthony Hordern & (g f *f
Sons Ltd 10 II LZ* if fW 5
„ David /ones Ltd 6 UWI jf J ;/
„ Mark Foy’s Ltd 6 X^r
PERTH: Boons Ltd 6
ASSOCIATE COMPANIES: UNITED KINGDOM • UNITED STATES • SOUTH AFRICA
FRANCE
OTIS CtcalatwA
-PUT MOTION INTO SALES PROMOTION
This Otis escalator installation at Myer Emporium
Ltd., Melbourne, invites customers to visit. depart-
ments on upper floors—to see more and to buy more.
Properly planned escalators induce shoppers to visit
all departments . . . promote a high density ratio of
customers to merchandising area ... make for more
store traffic, more sales—and more profits.
Your local Otis office will be glad to give you the facts
and survey conditions in your store.
ELEVATOR COMPANY
(Incorporated in Victoria) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE
BRISBANE • PERTH • HOBART • NEWCASTLE
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY.
Trans-Tasman Trade
1 Engineers and ironmasters in
New Zealand scratching for iron
and steel for years past were
sceptical when newly-appointed
Australian Trade Commissioner
R. Hazzard said in mid-March
that between 40,000 and 50,000
tons of iron and steel products
were shipped to the Dominion
from Australia last year. Since
1946 M.L.’s steel industry hasn’t
had more than 20 p.c. of pre-war
supplies from across the Tasman,
so firms are asking where the
steel is going. They know Gov-
ernment orders get in front, but
they don’t think this is the, whole
story.
Lack of Australian supplies
sends them round the world, to
Britain, Belgium and elsewhere,
where they pay through the nose,
and manufacturing and construc-
tion costs go sky-high. A shade
over a year ago Minister of
Works Bob Semple went to Aus-
tralia on a buying mission when
M.L. was 100,000 tons short of
steel, but nothing much came of
that, at least for private firms.
Wheat is the other leader in
Australian shipments to M.L.,
and there Maorilanders are well
satisfied. What they want now
besides steel is a stronger foot-
hold in the Australian market,
and Trade Commissioner
Hazzard has raised hopes by say-
ing that the Commonwealth
could use half a million tons of
newsprint. Last year’s Austra-
lian deal for 12,500 tons of M.L.
woodpulp annually for 20 years
was a first step. Other lines, like
casein, cheese, hides, skins and
leather, are small beer by com-
parison, but they might amount
to something in aggregate. At
any rate, Maorilanders echo
Hazzard’s hope that Australia
and N.Z. will get closer together
in trade.
Maoriland Motoring
New motor-cars have dropped
to a mere trickle in New Zea-
land’s import-throttled trade,
and Maorilanders look en-
viously at Australia, where cars
will be turned out in thousands
annually when industry gets
going in top gear. M.L. motorists
can see no promise of better
times ahead as registrations of
new cars slump to an average of
only a shade over 70 a week,
against 400 weekly in the sum-
mer of ’4B, dealers slip back to
18 months to two years behind
orders in delivering new cars
from British factories, and the
Dominion’s fleet of a quarter-
million cars grows older. Four
out of every five cars have been
on the road for more than 10
years, and the maintenance bill
is a heavy drain on incomes.
There’s also more risk to necks
with so many old crocks about.
Figures tell a sad story of
motorists under paper pros-
perity. In the nine years ended
1948, 46,637 new cars were
registered—average 5182 yearly.
In the previous nine years ended
1939 new cars totalled 142,113 —
15,790 yearly. On top of this
U.S. and Canadian manufac-
turers have given Maoriland
notice that no more replacement
parts will be supplied for cars
and trucks more than 14 years
old. Thousands of cars are
likely to find their way to the
scrapheap before long, and many
of today’s motorists will be with-
out wheels.
If M.L. can’t afford to replace
its cars as fast as they’re wear-
ing out in “Labor’s” vaunted
high prosperity there’s a bleak
outlook for the days when N.Z.
has to take economic hard
knocks. Once close to Uncle
Sam as one of the most-
motorised of countries, it’s slip-
ping back and can’t expect to
hold its place near Australia in
the race ahead. It can’t begin
to break down the accumulated
war-time shortage of cars. Trade
totals double pre-war don’t
raise hopes, for the Dominion
under import-rationing hasn’t
been able to build up outsize
funds abroad or to keep abreast
of import demands. There’s
greater, not less, austerity round
the corner for M.L. motorists,
and perhaps for others as well,
under the parching effects of
“Labor’s” drift towards social-
isation, insulation and isolation.
What the country needs is the
economic sunshine and rain
which are kept off by “Labor’s”
big socialistic umbrella.
Government Oil Co.
An oil war is looming up
as the new State-controlled
British Petroleum Co. of N.Z.,
Ltd., which had its birth in De-
cember, 1946, plans to start
business later this year. With
il\ million capital, of which
M.L.’s Government has put up
£1,275,000 and the Anglo-
Iranian Oil Co. £1,225,000, it
will challenge established in-
terests, which have sunk £5 mil-
lion-odd in the industry. Its
biggest single competitor has
£1,250,000 at stake. Will the
State be content to share the
wholesale trade or will it aim to
get its hands on retail stations,
too? Will it covet the lion’s
share of the business? Will it
pay taxes like its rivals or will
it go scot-free like other State
enterprises? How fair will com-
petition be?
To start with, the co. is build-
ing its big organisation at peak
costs, so it might claim tax-free
privileges to help offset its heavy
outlay, and, being State-owned,
it might count on a most sympa-
thetic hearing. If it wins, tax-
payers, who are largely
motorists, will be forced to stand
behind it to set it on a pedestal
as a possible future monopolist
and white-haired boy in the oil
field. None of the “ifs” are
likely to be answered until it
gets into action, but it’s clear
that Maoriland’s motor industry
is being loaded with heavy capi-
tal spending while it’s losing
ground through throttling of
motor-car imports. To Maori-
landers these don’t look like
healthy trends.
Maoriland Gas and Power
The New Zealand Govern-
ment should stop kicking free
enterprise, unless it wants to
socialise everything, and if that’s
its aim it should say so “frankly
and openly.” This from V. J.
Lamer, head serang of the
Auckland Gas Co. and leading
spokesman for M.L.’s gas in-
dustry, would be echoed by
many other industrialists. What
they resent most is pinpricking
controls and interference under
a process of slow strangulation.
“While business enterprise and
a measure of free trading are
left to us, all we ask is the right
to conduct our business against
strong non-taxpaying competi-
tion without undue handicaps
and arbitrary restrictions, which
ultimately will defeat their pur-
pose,” declares Lamer.
Gas-co. tax-free competitors
are electric-power boards, which
would be a long way ahead but
for M.L.’s chronic shortage of
power from harnessed rivers and
lakes, but are rationing all con-
sumers on tight limits that leave
plenty of room for gas in
home§ and factories. Gas-mak-
ing isn’t all picnic, because coal
supplies are hand-to-mouth, but
Auckland Gas Co.’s new
£400,000 Glover - West plant,
supplied by Britain and Aus-
tralia, which swung into action
last November, has cleared a lot
of clouds from the sky. Gas-
stoves and other appliances are
in demand again.
Like most M.L. concerns,
Auckland Gas Co. longs for
freedom from “crippling con-
trols” and a chance to earn more
than a meagre 21 p.c. div. for
shareholders. Scanning the eco-
nomic horizon, Lamer has
warned Maorilanders that they
might suffer severely when the
prosperity tide turns. He’s
dubious about the permanence
of the 40-hour week, fat wages
and curtailed services under
M.L.’s “full - employment
policy," and some workers are
beginning to have misgivings,
too.
Wright, Stephenson
Record N.Z. exports have put
money in the pockets of stock-
and-station agents and all traders
who count on farmer support,
which means nearly everyone in
Maoriland. Wright, Stephenson
and Co., Ltd., with Australian
as well as N.Z. interests, has
been doing well in farmer-
financing and trading, with
profit, dividend and reserves well
up for the latest year (ended
June). Profit at £57,844 is a
record, against £46,402 previous
year, and the co. has lifted its
div. 3 p.c. to 10 p.c. The pile
of reserves is well above
£300,000. Stocks have jumped
nearly 50 p.c. to £741,575. J. T.
Martin, chairman, says backlog
funds built up over many years
are enough to safeguard the co.
against a moderate fall in prices
of high-cost stocks. He’s one of
M.L.’s leading , advocates of
wider trade, and thinks N.Z. has
too many of its eggs in one
basket, and should be getting
busy in new markets to meet
keener competition that will
come some day.


SINCE 1847
...rfffTtif
m
%
%
WINES
..FIRST CHOICE
FOR MORE THAN
A CENTURY
PERSONAL ITEMS
David Rivett, whose resignation as
chairman of the C.S.I.R. synchronises
with the tacking of the “O” on to the
title of the recently much-debated
council, succeeded George Julius in the
chair in 1946, and was chief executive-
officer and deputy-chairman for nearly
20 years before that. A Tasmanian and
a son of the manse, he was Victorian
Rhodes Scholar in 1907 and, after his
term at Oxford, put in some time at the
Nobel Institute in Stockholm before re.-
turning to Melbourne University as
lecturer in chemistry in 1911. He stayed
among the test-tubes until 1927, and
occupied the chair in chemistry when
asked to take on the C.S.I.R. job in 1927.
He is a Doctor of Science of both Oxford
and Melbourne Universities and a Fellow
of the Royal Society. In 1946 his old
Oxford college, Lincoln, made him an
honorary fellow, and in addition to his
scholastic letters he is a K.C.M-.G.
Peter Finch, who has come good in his
first London play, James Bridie’s “Daphne
Laureloa,” under Sir Laurence Olivier’s
management, is a local boy making good
in his home town. According to Finch
himself; whose regard for exactitude is
such that, as a copy-boy of 17, he threw
a typewriter, or similar missile, at the
news-editor of the Sydney “Sun,” he was
born in London 32 years ago to Professor
George Finch, of the Royal College of
Science, who went on an expedition to
Everest in 1920. In India Peteft became
a kind of apprentice to a Buddhist "priest,
but gave this up at 12 to come to Aus-
tralia to his grandfather. After the “Sun”
episode he began acting as feed to a
Jewish comedian in a King’s Cross
vaudeville show, and gradually grew and
prospered as an A.B.C. actor. During the
war he served in the Middle East and at
Darwin in an anti-aircraft battery; he was
released from service for the film “The
Rats of Tobruk.” In 1944 he married
Tamara Tchinarova, of the De Basil
ballet. On the stage Finch made an ex-
cellent job of the aristocrat A.B. in “While
the Sun Shines” at Sydney Minerva, and
as one of the directors of the Mercury
Players he produced Lope da Vega’s
“The Pastrycook” admirably at Sydney
Conservatorium. He also played in the
Mercury production of a Gorki “spieler”
play and a comedy by Kleist, in both
showing unusual ease and polish. But in
Australia he was best known for his per-
formances in A.B.C. plays. Everything
he did was done so well as to make people
feel he deserved better things. Now he
has them.
f Leo Wilson spent 20 years as a scribe
on the London “Star,” decided he pre-
ferred dogs ; and after long association
with canines in many countries arrived
in Sydney last week to judge the barkers
at the Easter Show. On the way out he
inspected dogs in Ireland, Singapore and
New Zealand; on his return he goes to
Scotland and then to Cheltenham, thus
sifting-out champions in six different
countries in six weeks. At dinner last
Thursday Wilson sported a grin like a
bulldog, having just learned that he had
been appointed judge at the Cruft Show
in England, a pinnacle regarded among
dog-judges as a kind of Everest. Although
he gets through about 100 dog-shows
annually and has been at it for 17 years,
Wilson recalls being bitten only twice—
Sealyham and small boy.
Back in Melbourne in command of a
Constellation on the England-Australia
route. Captain Richard Allen, whq flew
solo from the Old Dart to Australia in a
Gypsy Moth in 1932 when he was 21,
achieved a record in transatlantic cross-
ings as a,foundation member of the war-
time bomber ferry-service, since the war
has flown commercially in New Guinea
and is now back on the North Atlantic
run with an extra 240 crossings. He was
educated at Melbourne Grammar and
trained at Point Cook.
Lord Dugan’s departure, after a record
term of office as Governor of Victoria,
has given the Hollway Government an
opportunity to revise the scale of salary
and allowances for the gubernatorial
function* The late incumbent spent from
£3OOO to £4OOO a year above his allow-
ance; so his 10 years were not inexpen-
sive. A new bill raises the salary from
£5OOO to £6OOO, with an annual allowance
of £4OOO for the upkeep of staff and
Government House. A cable stated that
the range of people suitable for the post
and possessing the necessary financial
means to maintain it was greatly
narrowed.
Charted here by Elmslie is the face that
has guided a thousand ships. Scott
Bithell is in charge of chart corrections at
CHART-MAKER.
the Navy’s hydrographic branch in
Sydney, where he has served 35 years
under 23 officers-in-charge. As new lights
and beacons are added or new shoals dis-
covered in the Yangtse Kiang or Funa-
futi atoll, tha girls and ratings Bithell has
trained record in copperplate green-ink
letters the change on the relevant charts
for the guidance of all mariners. There
is drama in the work. A girl is handed a
notice. She busies herself with dividers a
moment, then on the edge of a Coral Sea
reef she draws a neat little figure of a
ship, its stern under water: the wreck
symbol. Somewhere on that lonely ex-
panse a ship and a man had been blasted
—the story of his failure told briefly for
all seamen to see in that tiny symbol from
the hand of a girl from Bondi. Bithell
also checks ships’ chronometers and deck-
watches, and Jiis pet timepiece is a beauti-
fully-worked chronometer which first
ticked in England 124 years ago.
When a Bulletin man asked George Bennett,
curator of Albury’s lovely parks and gardens,
what he did in World War I, he took a deuce
of a long time to answer. It came out in time
that Bennett, a spare, dark Forest of Dene man
with a gentle voice and grey eyes that glow
whenever plants and trees are mentioned,
had been at Gallipoli, and had an offspring
of the original Lone Pine in the Gardens;
although, he added cautiously, the blasted con-
dition of the old tree when he had last seen
it raised reasonable doubts of its legitimacy.
The interviewer suggested other active service;
on which the curator murmured something
about the Sinai Peninsula and added that
Albury has 7000 street trees and 10 acres of
garden-land. Pressed, he admitted to three
wounds, and to an active interest in the Somme,
Pozieres, Bullecourt, Ypres and Messines—after
which the curator was left free to talk of the
shrubs and trees which have made Albury’s repu-
tation in tree-wise circles. Among them are a
magnificent New Zealand kauri, a ghost
gum from Namatjira’s country and a lemon-
scented gum which, by test, yields 2\ times
more commercial oil than any eucalypt so far
tested, added to a contrast of arboreal riches
including elms, planes, ash, five varieties of
oak, camphor-laurel and scores of others. Ben-
nett came to Sydney young, after a spell at
coalmining, some of which was in the old
Balmain mine, and studied accountancy at
Sydney Tech. Then, when he went to Albury
after the war, he fell in love with trees and
plants, and has remained faithful ever since.
Not many men have seen #rrfs»re of
Queensland or know more about its
potentialities than William John Young,
who started exploring its highways and
byways more than a quarter of a century
ago when he was appointed to the Main
Roads Board ; he hasn’t stopped yet. For
many years he was in charge of the.
central and northern divisions of the
State and, as district engineer, was
associated with the construction of some
of the chief developmental arteries and
“feeder” roads. During the war, when
J. R. Kemp was Deputy Director-General
of Allied Works, Young was one of his
right-hand men on most of the construc-
tional projects in Queensland. He was
appointed Commissioner of Housing at
the end of the war, but last year became
associated with Kemp again as general
field-manager of the Queensland British
Food Corporation, with responsibility for
field operations in the big grain and pig-
meats production scheme. A Digger of
World War X, he is on the State council
of the R.S.L.
Just-dead Dr. C. H. Mollison, Vic-
torian Government Pathologist since the
’nineties, dealt with more murder
mysteries than Sherlock Holmes, per-
formed 500 autopsies .a year at the City
Morgue at a fee of three guineas a
time, and yet had a boyish look about
him and kept his vigor as a member of
the Royal Tennis Club where, in his
younger days, he won every championship
open to him. His most celebrated case
was that of Deeming. The discovery of
the last victim which paved the murderer’s
way to the gallows at the old Melbourne
jail was made in the country. The corpse
had been buried for tv?o years, but
Mollison went there, examined it in a tent,
and his evidence clinched the case against
Deeming. Other crimes he helped to solve
were the Pyjama Girl case and the “Boot-
box tragedy.” One of his toughest
problems was diagnosing the cause of a
maze of cuts on a skull which had been
disinterred by a plough in a paddock at
Eltham. The mystery remained unsolved
until the housekeeper of Dr, Kent Hughes,
the surgeon father of the present Vic-
torian Minister for Education, confessed
that she had found it amongst a lot of
lumber and had thrown it out. It was a
skull used by the doctor for demonstrating
to students.
First to warm the new Chair of Educa-
tion at Queensland University is Pro-
fessor F. J. Schonell, who has been
lecturing on education at Birmingham
University and is a leading thinker on
educational psychology and the problem
of educationally backward children. He
was here last year at the invitation of the
National University Council and the
Commonwealth Education Office to talk
over teaching matters; lectured for the
New Education Fellowship*in Brisbane.
A B.A. of the W-A. Uni., a M.A. of
Birmingham and a Ph.D. and D.Litt. of
London, he has taught widely in English
schools and universities.
Despite slightly-failing sight, John
Locke, of Mt. Gambier (S.A.), who re-
cently jogged past his 95th birthday, can
still wander down-town to yarn with less-
aged fogies of the Blue-Lake town. As a
small boy he knew Adam Lindsay
Gordon, and in his young days was him-
self a well-known amateur steeplechase
rider. A life-member of the local racing-
club, he still attends an odd meeting.
Caught by Mcßeath just before he
left Melbourne for his Sydney concert
season, Harold Blair was being showered
with congratulations on his recent
engagement to Miss Eden, a fellow-
SINGER.
student of Melbourne Conservatorium.
Advised to take on singing first by
Marjorie Lawrence and later by Tod
Duncan, the negro singer, Blair was sent
to Melbourne on funds collected by
Brisbane admirers to have his education
undertaken by Harold Elvins, He has
sinc§. appeared in opera and oratorio and
on the Town Hall concert platform. An
all-Australian tour is projected, and what
the tax commissioner leaves will take
Blair to New York and Washington,
where Tod Duncan has arranged entry
into two leading musical institutions for
him, A bright unassuming personality,
with enough fire in his eyes to start a
bushfire, Blair looks like being the
original fellow who went from mission-
station to musical White House.
J. G. Kilpatrick, retiring from the posi-
tion of Deputy-Director of Posts and
Telegraphs in Perth, is a Londoner who
was an engineer in Britain’s postal service
and a lecturer in telephone-engineering
before h'e came to Australia in 1915 as
supervising-engineer of the P.M.G.’s de-
partment, Melbourne. Since then he has
served in all States, though W.A. has seen
more of him than the others. During a
six-year term as superintending-engineer
in Perth he had the job of taking over
radio station 6WF; he acted as pro-
gramme-director and technical controller
until the A.B.C. was ready to take over.
Kilpatrick will be succeeded in Perth by
C. G. Friend, now holding down the same
job in Hobart.
Sir Seymour Hicks, who took his last
call the other day at 77, had probably
trod the boards in more London theatres
than any other man in the game. It is
over 60 years since he made his first
appearance, in a walk-on part at the
Grand, Islington, and for half a century
after that he was seldom out of a part
except when by way of a change he was
playing a real-life role as theatre-man-
ager. He built the Aldwych in 1905, and
the Hicks (now the Globe) for Charles
Frohman a year later, and at other times
managed Prince’s, Daly’s and the Victoria
Palace. Early in his career Hicks went
to America with the Kendals; he re-
turned there later, also making tours of
South Africa, Canada and Australia. He
brought his own company to Australia
in 1924, presenting several plays, includ-
ing “The Man in Dress Clothes,”
“Scrooge,” and “Old Bill, M.P.” In the
First World War he took the first concert-
party to the troops in France, thus
originating the idea which in the second
war grew into E.N.S.A., of which he was
first controller. Including adaptations,
Hicks is credited with the authorship of
64 plays and shows; he also published a
couple of dozen books. He was knighted
in 1935 ; before that France had made
him a Chevalier of the Legion of Honor.
Into the Silence:
In Brisbane, at 79, Ernest Walter Bick, one of
the foremost botanical authorities in Australia.
He was curator of the Brisbane Botanical
Gardens from 1917 until 1940. Appropriately,
he died among trees; he collapsed while
superintending the planting of some at the
University,
In Melbourne, at 67, James Ernest Newland,
V.C., who enlisted for the Boer War at 18,
later joined the permanent forces and was at
the Gallipoli landing with the 12th Battalion.
He won his Cross at Bapaume in 1917. Four
V.Cs. attended Newland’s funeral, including
James Rogers, who won his in South Africa.
In Melbourne, at 63, J. C. Davies, one of
the founders of the Bread and Cheese Club
and the Henry Lawson Society and a frequent
contributor of verses to The Bulletin. He
edited Harrington’s “Boundary Road and Other
Ballads” and Wye’s “Bush Minstrelsy.” He
was a veteran of World War I.
At Stirling West (S.A.), at 72, Sydney R.
Dickinson, M.A., formerly owner and head-
master of Haileybury College, Brighton (Vic.).
In 1931 he bought the Castlefield estate where
the college now stands; eight years later it was
bought by the Presbyterian Church. He was
regarded as one of the best classics scholars of
his day.
In Edinburgh, Scotland, Mrs. Lauchlan
Mackinnon, widow of Captain Lauchlan Mac-
kinnon, of the former proprietors of the
“Argus” and “Australasian.” Her father was
James Law, a proprietor of the “Scotsman.”
She entertained the Duke of Windsor during
his Australian visit.
In Wellington (M.L.), at 52, D. O. Williams,
economist and director of the Bank of New
Zealand. A native of Palmerston North, he
became lecturer at Victoria College, Wellington,
served as adviser to the Parliamentary Monetary
Committee in 1934, and attended the British
Commonwealth Conference in Sydney'in 1938.
He published several volumes on economic and
monetary problems.
At Putaruru (M.L.), at 79, Robert Wilson,
ex-member of the Scottish Borderers, who saw
thirteen years’ service in Afghanistan, Punjab,
Egypt and South Africa. He took part in the
Chitral campaign and was at the relief of
Mafeking. Migrating to Maoriland in 1905, he
took up the breeding of Jersey cattle and
established the Ebor Jersey Stud.
In Melbourne, at 71, Fred Germaine, Golds-
bprough Mort’s wool representative in the
Western District of Victoria and the south-east
of South Australia for more than 40 years.


Women’s Letters
From Melbourne
To discuss ways and means of raising
funds for the Vera Scantlebury-Brown
Child Welfare Memorial Trust, the Lieut-
Governor’s lady entertained at morning
tea representatives of several organisa-
tions. There could be no better cause
than that embraced by this memorial
trust, which has done so much for the
women and children of this State. It
was established to honor the memory of
Dr. Vera Scantlebury-Brown, whose ser-
vice to the cause of Infant Welfare was
so great. In the few years since
her death two Australian women —a
doctor and an infant welfare sister —have
gone abroad under the scholarships which
are given by the Trust, but the trustees
are aiming at establishing an endowment
fund of £25,000 so that more doctors,
nurses and kindergarten workers may get
the benefits of study abroad. The special
committee to raise funds is headed by
the Angliss lady, and its main effort will
be an exhibition in the Town Hall in
September, at which all phases of child
care will be demonstrated. Mrs. Garnet
Carroll is arranging a special matinee at
the Princess, and other moneyraising sug-
gestions include a “snowball luncheon”
and a “grandmother’s union.”
Eleanor Marjorie, only daughter of the
late Wilbur Ham, K.C., and Mrs. Ham,
of Toorak, wore a lovely gown of white
satin and tulle when she was married at
the Toorak Presbyterian Church to
Arthur Pelham, only son of Mrs. H. P.
Webb, of North Balwyn. The fitted satin
bodice of the gown had bishop sleeves
of tulle and the satin continued in petal
points on the tulle skirt, which was on
bouffant lines,. The short tulle veil was
held with a wreath of white roses, of
which the small posy was also made.
Two small cousins, Jennifer and Virginia
Ham, were the attendants. They wore
long white organdie frocks frilled at hem
and neckline; in their hair were wreaths
of white hyacinths, and they carried tiny
bouquets of the same flowers. Ewen
Scott Mackenzie was best man, and ushers
were Brian Wilbur Ham and Alistair
Satchell. Eleanor was given away by
her brother John, who later, with his wife,
received the guests with the bridegroom’s
mother at the reception held at the bride’s
Toorak home.
The,.first of the season’s subscription
concerts at the Town Hall ranged from
the classical masters to the modernism of
the ‘ Walton violin concerto, in which
Ernest Llewellyn was soloist. Conductor
Bernard Heinze’s lady wore a striking
full-length white brocade evening coat
over her gown. Grey fox trimmed the
collars and cuffs of Mrs. T, M. Paterson’s
black velvet coat. Her daughter Mary
wore a black velvet gown under a Persian-
lamb coat. Bonnie McCallum’s black
velvet was highlighted with brilliant
buttons.
Pretty Patricia Heath, who has just
returned with her father and mother, Dr.
and Mrs. John Heath, of Toorak, from
a trip overseas, was hostess to many of
her young friends at a dance at the
Grosvenor. Pat’s gown, a Regency
cherry-red stripe on white satin, had a
wide, full skirt and strapless bodice. Mrs.
Heath’s black tulle gown was patterned
in gold true-lovers’ knots. Among the
dancers were Francine Abry, the bodice
of whose grey chiffon frock had the halter
neckline ; Judith Southby, in an ankle-
length evening gown ■of tea-rose-pink
moire taffeta; Pam Gove, whose moire
taffeta gown was in a soft shade of pearl-
grey ; Margot Pettigrew, her swirling
ballerina gown of grey and pastel-pink
taffetas ; Joy Beattie, in brown lace with
a matching sequin-studded stole; and
Fay Doughton, whose white chiffon gown
was patterned with field-flowers.
Anew McMaster held a group of
women enthralled as he declaimed a
number of passages from Shakspeare at
the monthly meeting of the American
Women’s Auxiliary to the Children’s
Hospital. This was held in the Glou-
cester Room of the Australia. Hostesses
for the day were Mesdames U. B. Zirkle,
T. E. Shirley and D. J. Evans. President
of the auxiliary, in slate-grey suit and
black osprey-trimmed hat, was in the
chair, and committee-members present
were Mrs. D. J. Lampard, Mrs. Herbert
Allen, Mrs. W. Adamson, who tackles
the job of correspondence secretary, and
Mrs. Tom Blarney. Mrs. Lester Mon-
teith set off her ensemble with a perky
little tartan cap. Mrs. Floyd Walters’s
Royal Stuart tartan jacket was worn over
a winter-white frock and with a gold-
studded winter-white felt beret.
The party given by Dr. and Mrs. W.
H. Fitchett at their Elsternwick home
had a dual purpose. With many of their
French friends as guests, opportunity was
taken to bid farewell to M. and Mme.
G. B. Perronne, who will take up resi-
dence in Sydney after their return from
a holiday in France, and to M. and Mme,
Jacques Leman, who with their baby
daughter will leave in the Strathaird to
live permanently in France. At the same
time guests offered congratulations to M.
and Mme. Edouard Douez, of East St.
Kilda, on the engagement of their eldest
daughter, Janine, to M. Pierre Cordier.
Janine has been living with her grand-
mother at Tourcoing, France, for the
past two years. On the same date that
Dr. and Mrs. Fitchett gave their party
Janine was celebrating her betrothal at
her grandmother’s home in France.
Duncan McKellar, a new arrival frae
Scotian’, was guest-of-honor at a late-
afternoon party given by Kathleen Las-
celles at her Toorak home. Kathleen did
the honors in a silk frock and short
matching jacket patterned in a floral de-
sign of rust, blue and Among
her guests were Mrs. P. deCourcy Ireland
in black frock and black hat trimmed
with pink satin ribbons; Mrs. N. Mc-
Leod Johnston, a blue angora jacket-suit
her choice; Susan Hayward-Young,
whose black ensemble had beige lapels ;
Mrs. N. Gadsen, pink feathers flying in
the black hat she wore with a black
jacket-suit; and Merle Mason in a beige
frock and beige felt hat finished with
brown feathers.
Dawn Ingram, one of Melbourne’s
best-known mannequins, was chosen by
Hugh Beresford and Peter Russell to dis-
play their models. _ In this study she
wears one of the hats fashioned by
Marjorie Gilbert. Dawn, who was edu-
cated at the Hermitage, Geelong, shares
a love of horse-riding with her husband,
lan Peebles. She is tall, and has blue
eyes and a superb figure. , Photo, by
Sutcliffe.
A grey and dismal day at Caulfield
brought tailoreds ■ into the sartorial pic-
ture. Two notable models had fitting
jackets, with the pencil-slim skirts almost
of ankle-length. The cherry-red coat
which Mrs. W. S. Robinson wore over
her grey suit lent a cheery note to the
day. Mrs. N. Austin contrasted her
brown-and-white-check suit with a small
pale-pink, feather-trimmed hat. Elizabeth
Richards’s small grey hat had a trimming
of green feathers. A brown pheasant-
feathered hat and an olive-green wool
•suit were Maisie Holdensen’s choice.
Mrs. James Buchanan’s grey alpaca coat
had' a lynx fur collar. Mrs. Ten Voss
Smith was in junior-navy jacket suit and
matching felt hat. Black Persian-lamb
trimmed Mrs. Essington Lewis’s black
cloth coat; her small hat was trimmed
with blue, pink and mauve taffeta ribbon.
Her daughter Jane wore a brown double-
breasted coat and a small hat carrying
London-tan feathers. A dyed-ermine
cape-collar highlighted the brown coat
worn by Mrs. W. K. Burnside. Mrs.
Alan Bernaldo’s mushroom-pink wool
frock was trimmed with brown leather
heart-shaped buttons. Mrs. R. R.
Thomas’s slate-blue suit was teamed with
a matching felt sailor hat trimmed with
light grey feathers. A navy tricorne felt
hat topped Mrs. A. H. Manton’s navy
ensemble. With her grey suit and grey
Indian-lamb coat Mrs. S. C. Burston wore
a feather-trimmed grey felt hat.
A late-afternoon party in honor of Mrs.
Robert Lane was held at the Elsternwick
home of Mrs. G. Garrick, who shared the
hostessing with Mesdames Leslie Profitt
and J. B. Eggleston. Mrs. Garrick’s
frock was of blue-and-white-patterned
silk. Mrs. Profitt’s brown-and-white silk
frock had tiny frills of cream lace at
neck and sleeves. Mrs. Eggleston donned
navy-and-white-spotted voile. The guest
of honor was in a black moire ballerina
frock. Among the many guests were Mrs.
Bert Thomas in pale-blue linen; Mrs.
John Leith, her cocktail frock of mid-
night-blue velvet; Mrs. Alick Chapman,
her florals under a cherry-red wool coat;
Mrs, Graham Carrick, whose pink silk
frock carried a pattern of royal-blue
flowers and etched green leaves; Mrs.
Russell Cross, her black crepe bolero
suit having powder-blue moire forming
the shoulder insets and wide corselet
belt; Gwen Stewart, in a tailored frock
in deep-red wool crepe; and Shirley
Thomas, who allied a powddr-blue crepe
bodice with a black crepe skirt.
From Sydney
It was a double shift for Elizabeth
Northcott on Friday night. After she
had been to the University Settlement
Ball with her father, the Governor, she
went on to the Combined Easter Ball at
the Wentworth. In the Great Hall of
the University the Governor received
graceful curtseys from 45 attractive debu-
tantes who were later gazed upon by a
company of about 500 as they swung into
the debutantes’ dance. The ball is an
annual money-raiser for the University
Settlement. The chairman of the Settle-
ment Council, Mrs. MacDonald Holmes,
and Professor MacDonald Holmes enter-
tained a large official party, among whom
were many professors and their wives:
Chancellor of the University knight
Charles Bickerton Blackburn, and Deputy
Chancellor Justice Roper and Mrs.
Roper, Vice-Chancellor firofessor S. H.
Roberts and Mrs. Roberts, and Professor
Harvey Sutton and Mrs. Sutton.
The Combined Easter Ball was a flutter
among the junior groups of three Empire
movements: Victoria League, Overseas
League and the Empire Society. This
drew a large following to the Wentworth.
The official guests were Admiral and Mrs.
Moore, the Percy Spenders, Beulah
Bolton and Kathleen Gaden. They were
received by Dorothy Northwood, Loloma
Swinebourne and Douglas Shannon.
The Trocadero is being steadily booked
out for the International Ball on April
26. Members of the Diplomatic and
Consular Corps will be present in force.
The Governor, Lieut.-General Northcott,
and Mrs. Northcott, are giving their
patronage. The president of the ball
committee is the Francis Anderson lady.
Sonia Lester, pictured here by Norton
Trevaire, is an active member of the com-
mittee.
Almost 92,000 people, starting, seem-
ingly, at crack of dawn, rushed out to
the Showground for the opening of the
R.A.S. The Great Show had once again-
come to town. Here were Herefords,
Shorthorns, Aberdeen-Angus; sheep-dog
trials; collie dogs from Maoriland that
might be descendants of ones this Letter
knew in the crisp, cold Southland. Here
were sideshows, sample-bags, pavilions
in the last throes of preparation, Shetland
ponies and handsome hunters, a green,
green ring where belles and beaux
of the pastures showed their points.
Here were fathers and mothers and
children struggling happily from one
enchantment to another. There were
200 policemen and -women, 40
ambulance-men, »an army of food in-
spectors from the Health Department,
warnings against pickpockets and counter-
feit two-bob pieces, a blue and glittering
sky arching the whole. Ladies and gentle-
men, the fun is all yours. The Easter
Show is open until the 19th.
Notables the first day included Gov-
ernor-General McKell; the wife of U.S.
Consul-General Orsen Nielsen; Lady
Goodson, who decorated the winning
Aberdeen-Angus bull with the champion
sash awarded by her husband, Sir Alfred
Goodson; Mrs. Charles Morris, whose
husband judged the Herefords; and Lieut.-
General Berryman, G.O.C. Eastern Com-
mand, who, in the evening, took the
salute at a march-past of 2500 C.M.F.
troops, V.A.Ds. and school cadets.
To his concert last week in the Sydney
Town Hall, tenor, and true son of Aus-
tralia, Harold Blair brought all the intel-
ligence, the dignity and the rich tone
noted in his last year’s Sydney appearance.
His Sydney visit was sponsored <by
the Society for the Promotion of Aus-
tralian Art, and Margaret Sutherland,
Melbourne pianist and one of the trustees
of this society, came specially to Sydney
for the concert. Another music-lover up
from Melbourne was Mrs. E. A.
Lempriere, sister of Dame Nellie Melba.
It is at the home of her daughter and her
son-in-law, Keith Woods,' of Hunter’s
Hill, that Harold will stay during his
visit. At the end of the concept there was
a rose for the singer’s lapel pinned there
by Mavis Dixon, an attractive young
aborigine singer. Another concert tonight
at the same address.
Most-keenly-sought invitations last
week were those to the Shell Oil Com-
pany’s television parties. The company
ran a series of these in the Australia
Hotel. Guests found most of the floor-
space of the ballroom occupied by a
formidable array of apparatus. However,
the trick was to seat yourself comfortably
along the sidelines and watch the artist
singing, dancing or doing a homely turn
such as making pastry being flashed
on the screens around the room.
If yon stood up and craned you
could see the actors doing it on the stage,
but would you believe it, this was exactly
the same as shown on the screen! And
when you got thirsty watching all the
activity buzzing on the walls around you,
you could cool off with a nice long
drink provided by the hosts. Douglas Fell
welcomed the guests and proved it by tele-
vising the act. Mrs. Fell, who assisted her
husband in entertaining, wore a ballerina
frock of black taffeta.
The widow of William Holman, Labor
Premier of former years, died rather sud-
denly last week after a short illness. This
was a shock to her many friends, who
had been happy over her recovery from
last year’s illness. Ada Holman was
widely known in writing circles, and
several of her books had been published,
among them My Wander Year (a book
of travel) and a novel, Sport of the Gods.
Her last book, Memoirs of a Premier’s
Wife, is now in its second edition. She
had an amused and amusing chuckle for
life generally. Two of the groups which
will miss her particularly are the Women
Writers and the Fellowship of Australian
Writers. Sympathy goes to her only
daughter. Dr. Portia Holman, now in
London, and her two sisters, Una and
Stella Kidgejl, of Sydney.
What the catalogue termed “Ballet”
but what the Girl in the Flat Opposite
called “Pas de Ducks” excited amused
and enduring interest at artist Beatrice
Kelly’s show at the Grosvenor Galleries
last week. This was a water-color show-
ing a company of ducks grouped as
though caught in some esoteric dance.
One that might have been the principal
ballerina had one red web-foot extended
backwards while her head coyly turned
sideways glancing at it. This was a
happy show of pleasant scene and happy
moments painted with eagerness.
The artist’s husband, John McPhillamy
(they are the Mount Tamar, Bathurst,
McPhillamys, though now living at Moss
Vale), was an early arrival. Her mother,
Mrs. Bertie Kelly, came just in time
for the opening. With her black suit
she wore a small black cloche hat of
black velvet —one pink Tudor rose at
the side. The artist’s black fitting coat
was belted in black patent leather. Kath-
leen Robinson of the Minerva Theatre
said the opening piece, quoting Bernard
Shaw in support of her own ideas on
art. She was graceful in a dark-blue
suit and a dark-blue velvet hat. Mrs. M.
Darling and Mrs. Bevan, lovers and
buyers of paintings, were there. The
Lachlan Beatons came, she very smart in
a black velvet suit with small hat to
match.
The Easter Frivolity was a winner in
the race of seasonal festivities. It got
off to an early start one night last week
and filled Prince’s with dancing and fun
from 8.30 onwards. Every man and
woman who entered the ballroom was
presented with a gaily-wrapped Easter-
egg. There were some dazzling
frocks, the white - sharkskin bal-
lerina frock worn by president Mrs.
lan Jacoby being one of the most
attractive. Before coming to the
dance Mr. and Mrs. Jacoby had been at
a cocktail-party given by Mr. and Mrs.
‘§am Lands, and arrived at the dance with
their host and hostess. An amusing floor-
show was given by Freddie Bamberger
and partner Pam, who had come on from
the Tivoli to help the cause, as had
Norman Lawrence, whose songs were en-
joyed. Noted was Mrs. Ken Pointing, a
committee-member, whose frock was a
swirl of grey chiffon. Two active yourfger
group members were Shirley Gray and
Eva Herz. The Food for Babies Fund
benefits.
Journalists are trekking to the Troca-
dero in force to-morrow night for their
annual ball. A great event of the night
will be the “pretty leg” competition, to
be judged by a group of artists and
columnists. The Journalists’ Benevolent
Fund is the beneficiary.


\
'
\
m
\
m
to
B
C J
Wr
16mm. SOUND
ON FILM
PROJECTOR
for
COUNTRY HOME,
SCHOOL,
CHURCH
OPERATION EVERYWHERE
Locations remote from normal power mains installations have the
complete answer to the demand for the use of silent or sound
film projection for home entertainment and educational
instruction.
The BATTERY-OPERATED Cinevox Master, 24-32 volt, gives
perfect screening from any 32-volt domestic power source as well
as from 24-volt current supplied by two 12-volt standard car
batteries. Price £219/3/9.
KODAK 16mm. SOUND FILM LIBRARY
Famous Artists Comedy Educational Travel—Cartoons—
Variety—Musical—all are available from the KODASCOPE
SOUND FILM LIBRARIES when you buy your Cinevox from Kodak.
Write for full particulars
KODAK (A'ASIA) Pty. Ltd.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES—Kodak Dealers
A LEADING DOG
Blue Cattle Dog “OATIEY PETER"
State K.C. Champion; Royal
Champion, Victoria, 1947; City
of Lithgow Champion, 1947,
"Oatley Peter” is holder of four
interstate challenges and an out-
standing sire of this typical
Australian breed.
&
»:
bS
V.
re®
tm
*B2
Rib
725 - 7.48
PiMR
m »
CHAMPION
READY RUBBED TOBACCO
Also BRIGHT and DARK Flake Cuf for fhe Pipe .
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEM
SOUTH WALES— In Divoece.
TO FREDERICK STANLEY BATES Ute
of Mayfield New South Wales.—TAKE
NOTICE that VERA
CLEMENCE BATES has fi’ed her
tion for Divorce No. 4804 °f !948 ° »
ground of desertion without just
or excuse for three years and up
If you wish to defend you may J nter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Sup
Court King Street Sydney by th2ith
day of June 1949 and obtain a copy «
the petition without charge
CHRISTOPHER LIGUORI SHEER*,
Solicitor, 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.-(u.M
j. DOUGHAN, Acting Registrar
Divorce.
THE SERVICE MAN
The Atlantic Pact
and Asia.
“Ek Dum”; The Soviet
Union reaction to the Atlantic
Pact has been felt over the
world. With clockwork exacti-
tude the Communist parties of
the world have given an echo of
Moscow Radio’s ominous re-
mark : “The Atlantic Pact is for
war” It is to be seen on the
Communist party’s posters this
week in Sydney.
There seems to be little doubt
who is preparing the war, and
the knowledge of it by the
Atlantic Powers peeps out of a
hundred windows. It is as evi-
dent in the British Budget as it
is in the statement of President
Truman that, if necessary, he
will authorise the use of the
atom bomb to save ultimate lives
both of U.S. and enemy soldiers.
It is obvious that the fear has
penetrated to southern Asia, and
the Prime Ministers’ Conference
in Londorf this month is clearly
for the purpose of dealing with
the situation there.
India is wide-open to attack.
If the Russians could overrun
Europe as easily as Mr. Chifley
fatalistically believes with all his
complacent soul, they could
walk into India without a
shot being fired. Indeed, as
anybody who has seen India
knows, they could probably
organise a large enough in-
filtration to paralyse in-
dustrial India, cht off food
supplies and hold up the
ports with riots before you
could say “knife.” Afghani-
stan and the Meshed-road
are theirs for the taking,
along with Iran.
Mr. Bevin said a few weeks
ago that he proposed to concen-
trate on the problems of the
Middle East and Asia, and the
realisation of the danger, which
is as imminent as or more im-
minent than that in Europe, is
shown by the suggestion of
Pandit Nehru that he would
have nothing to do with a
Pacific Pact, and the remarks of
Field-Marshal Smuts;
Without the Atlantic Pact there
would be nothing to prevent the
Russians advancing to the shores of
the Atlantic in a fortnight.
Russia, checked and frustrated in
the west, is now turning to the east,
where a new situation is arising and
the white man is being booted out.
Asiatics have great dreams of
creating a vast Asiatic bloc, but there
is a prospect of Asia becoming a sort
of lost continent eddying in its own
confusions.
Russia would not be able to rebuild
the East. The prospect of Asia is a
pitiful one from the human viewpoint.
It perhaps will be the greatest tragedy
of the world in the near future.
Mr. Bevin, following his
earlier statement in 1948, went
out of his way at Washington
during the pact-signing festivities
to stress the comradeship and
connections of Europe with the
peoples of India and Asia and
their role in keeping the world
free from totalitarianism.
It will be a pretty difficult task.
Conditions are already chaotic,
largely thanks to people of the
Evatt type.
The Communists are en-
deavoring to bring their conquest
of North China to its final
fruition by a move to take Nan-
king—which they have not
attained —and their refusal to
treat the Chinese Nationalist
Government —still officially one
of the “great Powers” of U.N.O.
—as equals in peace negotia-
tions.
Malaya, Siam, the East Indies
and the Philippines are in a state
of ferment. Last week the re-
ports from Indo-China sug-
gested that a new Communist
war was on the verge of break-
ing out.
In Burma the country goes
through eruption after eruption,
latest being caused by the resig-
nations of six Ministers, includ-
ing the Deputy Prime Minister
and Foreign Minister.
The political groundwork of
Burma might delight Canberra,
but it is a sad mess. The Gov-
ernment party is in two parts—
the Yellow Band socialists, to
which the retiring Ministers be-
long, and the White Band, the
Communist section. Thakin Nu,
the Prime Minister, an avowed
Marxist and a hearty admirer of
Moscow’s “democratic” ways,
does not seem to know quite
where he stands as leader of the
Anti-Fascist People’s Freedom
League.
The White Band section of his
military organisation has joined
the rebels, who have control of
virtually the \vhole of central
Burma and have set up a capital
at Prome. But their right to air
their authority is disputed by
Communists —who are not of the
White Band type, but pure and
simple Russian apostles the
Karens and military-adventurer
'I hate to shanghai ’em, Prendergast , but We've got to
get doctors somehow.”
bands who are prepared to back
anybody it suits them to back.
All of them have treated the
Government’s amnesty, which
expired on March 31, with de-
rision.
It seems that Burma would be
a happy hunting-ground for
Moscow emissaries in the event
of another world war.
Some of these countries which
Mr. Attlee and his soft-headed
friends have “freed” so care-
lessly at the behest of Com-
munists and others who were
organising the break-up of
British power and authority
must long for the good old days
of “British imperialism.”
Defence, Europe and
Germany.
Two announcements following
immediately on the signing of
the Atlantic Pact gave an
earnest that it was no mere paper
agreement.
The United States brought
down a defence Budget without
parallel in peace-time, provid-
ing for roughly 4,750,000 men
in the forces with 731 ships and
9785 operational aircraft. Of
the men, 2,709,300 are to be
organised reserves. The cost in-
volved is 15,909,000,000 dollars.
And this despite the fact that
General Omar Bradley, U.S.
Chief of Staff, “does not now
anticipate war before June,
1950.” By that he means open
war.
The second move has been
the decision of the three Great
Western Powers after confer-
ences last week to approve a
statute, under which Western
Germany is to be handed what
is virtually a peace treaty em-
bodying its right to govern it-
self subject to a supervisory
occupation and under a republi-
can constitution. British-U.S.-
French control will be restricted
to foreign affairs and foreign
trade, scientific research, the
Ruhr, air navigation and the
maintenance of the new consti-
tution in the formative years.
The decision affects 45,000,000
people. Their new state will
bring them within the frame-
work of the European recovery
plan in which they will partici-
pate.
The move is both indicative, of
the great strides which have
been made in straightening out
German affairs in the West and
the hopelessness of relations
with Russia, which has obviously
decided to annex Eastern Ger-
many, including Berlin. It has
been put up to the Eastern Ger-
mans and their masters to face
the situation.
Franco has offered the United
States a military defence pact,
and mildly remarks: “One must
think of what would have be-
come of this part of the world if
our regime had not triumphed
over Communism.” One cer-
tainly must. The Allies would
have had none of the valuable
war materials which they got
from Spain, and in 1939-40 Spain
would have been doing exactly
what Moscow told it —making
every effort to block the use of
Lisbon by the Allies and the
granting of German bases for
U-boat attack on British ship-
ping as was done in the Russian
Arctic in 1940. It might well
have lost us the war in the light
of what is now known of the
working of the Soviet-German
Pact during its first year. -
"Pig-iron Joe."
“Ek Dum”: With the cry of
“Pig-iron Bob” so recently in the
air, it is perhaps profitable even
for morons —and their feminine
gender the more-offs—to study
a little history which has never
been printed in Australia.
The Communist party tacked
the epithet of “Pig-iron Bob” to
Mr. Menzies because inci-
dentally, at the behest of the
“Labor” party among others —
he agreed that a little iron, of
which the greater part was sold
at the instance of the “Labor”
Government of Western Aus-
tralia, should go to Japan.
The anger of the Communists
at that time was not because that
pig and other iron might be
used against the British, or even
against Australia, but because
Japan and the U.S.S.R. were in-
volved in some border strife in
Manchuria, so that any war
material arriving in Nippon
might be used to fight Russians.
Hence the fury which was in-
jected into the battle by the
Australian Ironworkers’ Federa-
tion, the Sheetmetal Workers, the
Wharflaborers and others who
were led by Russian-controlled
human loudspeakers activated
from Moscow.
Even by the first week in Sep-
tember, 1939, the cry about


/
Freight extra
Fronds
BOX 1502. 0.P.0., SYDNEY
ADDRESS ALL ORDERS TO MAIL ORDER MANAGER
Amazing special
offer to Proud's
country customers
High grade grandfather
clocks at a very low
price . . . here is the
chance to have one in
your home. Each has an
8-day English movement
with four-quarter West-
minster chimes. Cases
are Queensland walnut
or maple, dials chrome
or brass with matching
weights, chains. £39/10/-.
If you're not on Proud?s
mailing list write now
for a 1949 Gift Book,
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1878
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
O. 0, GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN C. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. 0. MAITLAND 1 , Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches In all States Agencies in all Country Centres
Scwc tAxXjpJdr ut-C&b
GIOBITE
TRAVEL CASE
They're lighter, stronger, longer
lasting. That's why a Globlta
costa less In the long run.
Mods by
FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
TRAD E
PROFITS
ALL MEN
Through its Head Office
and over 300 Branches this
Bank gives a complete bank-
ing service to its customers.
It has the necessary
organization for the financing
of imports and exports, the
transmission of funds, and the
collection of accounts any-
where in the civilized world.
THE
COMMERCIAL
BANKING
COMPANY
OF SYDNEY
LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
Japanese aggression had died
away completely, since as soon
as Russia signed its non-aggres-
sion pact with Germany a week
before the war broke out a
hurried peace was made with
Germany’s Axis partner in the
East and the Russians retired—
victorious, of course, and with
almost every fighting man and
woman decorated for valor.
This was well known at the
time. What is not so well
known was what happened in
September - November, 1940,
when Russia consented to an
arrangement which, had it come
about, would have handed Aus-
tralia bodily to the Japanese. It
only failed to become a fact be-
cause the U.S.S.R. wanted more
in the Baltic and the Balkans
than it was deemed safe by
Hitler to give.
It has become clear from
documents found in the Foreign
Office archives in Germany by
the Americans —most of which
became known to the Nurem-
berg tribunal against violent
Russian opposition, though their
authenticity has never been ques-
tioned —actually what was in
train.
On November 15, 1940, a
draft agreement had been drawn
up which opened thus:
The Governments of the States of
the Three Power Pact, Germany,
Italy and Japan, on the one side, and
the Government of the U.S.S.R. on
the other, motivated by the desire to
establish in their natural spheres of
influence in Europe, Asia and Africa
a new order serving the welfare of
all peoples concerned and to create
a firm and enduring foundation for
their common labors towards this
goal, have agreed as f0110w5....
Article II of the document
provided:
Germany, Italy, Japan and the
Soviet Union undertake to respect
each other’s natural spheres of in-
fluence. Insofar as these spheres
come into contact with each other,
they will constantly consult each
other in an amicable way with regard
to problems arising therefrom.
Article 111 provided that the
four lovely allies would “join
no combination of Powers and
support no combination of
Powers which is directed against
one of the four Powers.”
The agreement was to be for
10 years.
To this was to be added a
secret protocol:
1. Germany declares that, apart
from the territorial revisions in
Europe to be carried on the con-
clusion of peace, her territorial as-
pirations centre in the territories of
Central Africa.
2. Italy declares that apart from
the territorial revisions in Europe to
be carried out at the conclusion of
peace, her territorial aspirations centre
in the territories of Northern and
Eastern Africa.
3. Japan declares that her terri-
torial aspirations centre in the area
of Eastern Asia to the south of the
Island Empire of Japan.
4. The Soviet Union declares that
its territorial aspirations centre south
of the national territory of the Soviet
Union in the direction of the Indian
Ocean.
The Four Powers declare that, re-
serving the settlement of specific
questions, they will mutually respect
these territorial aspirations and will
not oppose their achievement.
These protocols, along with
one under which Russia was to
get control over Turkey, certain
to subject rights to Germany and
Italy, Molotov discussed in a
visit to Berlin and promised to
think over after a “cordial fare-
well” to Ribbentrop.
On November 26 following
the German Ambassador in
Moscow reported—the Germans,
by the way, were on that day
killing women and children by
the hundred in British cities —
“Molotov asked me to call on
him this evening, and, in the
presence of Dekanosov, stated
the following”:
The Soviet Government is prepared
to accept the draft of the Four Power
Pact which the Reich Minister [Rib-
bentrop] outlined in the conversation
of November 13 regarding political
collaboration and reciprocal economic
support, subject to the following
conditions.
The conditions included re-
quests that Russia should be
given the Persian ■ oilfields and
some alterations in the position
in the Balkans to suit Russian
defensive purposes.
And the despatch embodying
these suggestions was trans-
mitted to the German Foreign
Office with the remark that “M.
Molotov would appreciate the
German view” on his proposed
additions.
Germany by this time had
other ideas.
But the fact is clear that
Russia actually agreed in
November, 1940, to aid and abet
Japan in taking over the area
centring in her territorial
aspirations in “the area of Eas-
tern Asia to the south of the
Island Empire of Japan.” .
As we know all too well, these
included Indonesia, Australia
and New Zealand.
If this plan had be«n carried
out with Russia’s approval the
obsequious reception committee
to the Japanese would logically
have included the .chosen repre-
sentatives of those Comrades
who have made themselves
hoarse in the last few years
shouting “Pig-iron Bob!”
A Wild-goose Chase.
“Ek Dum”: Sir Frederick
Shedden has gone to the United
States to discuss a more
knit defence plan in the Pacific
—presumably one on the lines
on which Canberra arrange-
ments usually are based, in
which, say, the Philippines,
Burma, Republican Indonesia
and Australia will do the talking
and Britain and the United
States and Canada will provide
the defence.
By way of celebration of the
impending visit, Canada’s lead-
ing daily, the Montreal “Star,”
used Manus as a text and
claimed that, refused the base,
the United States “cut their last
ties with the South-west Pacific.”
The “Star” added:
The Royal Australian Navy is now
dignified as a fleet, but is too small
to be effective as such.
The Montreal “Star” is ob-
viously a paper which is very
restrained and conservative in
the expression of its views. In
fighting - power against major
units and organisation the Aus-
tralian fleet is scarcely a fleet’s
bootlace.
The United States heralded
the beginning of the Shedden ex-
pedition by announcing that it
had decided to reduce the num-
ber of its warships in the Pacific.
The arrangement now will be:
Atlantic Pacific
Carriers 6 2
Light Carriers 8 3
Battleships .... 1
Cruisers 12 6
Destroyers .. .. 117 93
Submarines .... 48 32
Not that it matters much. War
is the disposer of warships and
the decider of stations.
Armistice in Palestine.
“Ek Dum”: The armistice
between Transjordan and Israel
was signed at Rhodes on April
4, which might mean the end of
the war unless outside influences
intervene.
Armed with weapons and air-
craft from the Communist State
of Czechoslovakia, because it
was felt in the Eastern bloc that
an Israeli win would be re-
garded as another setback to the
British Government and favored
by the froth-and-bubble nature
of the Arab mind, the Jews
have had the best of the battle.
The Transjordan forces were
the only ones left on the Arab
side with any power or resources
to fight—Egypt and Lebanon
already have a truce.
King Abdulla’s men have
agreed to withdraw east of a line
through Nazareth, Tulkarem,
Kalkilya and Jerusalem, and
from south of Jerusalem east to
the Gulf of Akaba. The Jews
have control of the Haifa-Tel
Aviv jailway save at Tulkarem,
with control of the potash works
south of the Dead Sea.
Each side will maintain two
battalions in Jerusalem, with an
additional three in each of the
surrounding districts. Five Arab
battalions will be in the area
bounded by Nablus, Tulkarem
and Jenin, and five Jewish
battalions will face them on the
west.
In Negeb area, on ground as
at present held, each side will
have three battalions,
A five-man armistice commis-
sion will now operate.
If it had not been for tl.N.O.’s
interfering hand the' whole affair
might have been settled long
ago.
The International Court of
Justice at the Hague has by 14
votes to two —it would be easy
enough to guess the two; no
doubt Professor Kry 1 o n
(U.S.S.R.) and Dr. Winiarski
(Poland) —held Albania respon-
sible for the blowing up of two
British destroyers with mines in
the Corfu Channel in October,
1946, killing 44 personnel and
wounding many others. The
channel is a normal shipping
route, but was deliberately and
secretly mined by the Albanian
Communist Government which,
like all other Communist Gov-
ernments, adopted an attitude of
sullen enmity towards those who
did most to rescue their country
from the Italians and Germans
and shouted with glee at what
was virtually a deliberate murder.
The damages awarded are some-
thing over £BOO,OOO. The Inter-
national Court is a U.N.O. in-
stitution. It now remains to be
seen what steps Dr. Evatt will
take to make the Albanians pay
up—which they won’t if they
can help it.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
THE ATLANTIC PACT.
From the official U.S. White
Paper;—
The pact has its roots in the
common heritage and civilisa-
tion of the peoples living on
both shores of the North Atlan-
tic Ocean. These peoples have
ties not only of cultural back-
ground but of a common, in-
grained faith in the dignity and
worth of the individual, in the
principles of democracy, and in
the rule of law. Two world wars
have taught them that their
security is inextricably linked to-
gether, that an attack on any one
of them is in effect an attack on
all.
Developments in Europe since
the ending of hostilities in 1945
have revealed the true dimen-
sions of the task of restoring
economic health and political
stability to post-war Europe.
At the same time these develop-
ments have demonstrated, in
emergency after emergency, the
identical security and economic
interests shared by the demo-
cratic countries of the North
Atlantic community. From the
problems of immediate post-war
relief to the economic crisis dis-
closed by the bitter winter of
1947 and from attempted Soviet
intimidation of Greece and
Turkey to the Communist over-
throw of democracy in Czecho-
slovakia, each emergency has re-
quired practical action from the
democratic nations.
Each action has created closer
ties of co-operation and has em-
phasised the need for joint de-
fence on a continuing and inti-
mate basis.
Collective Defence
The powerful impact the
North Atlantic Pact can be ex-
pected to have on world affairs
derives from three factors: (1)
the stature and. strength of the
States which have indicated their
intentions of becoming members
of the arrangement; (2) the pre-
carious world security situation
to which it will bring a correc-
tive influence; and (3) the de-
veloping unity of the North
Atlantic community, historically
evident throughout more than a
half century of increasing inter-
dependence, but here formally
recognised for the first time.
The preamble of the pact de-
clares that:
“The parties of this Treaty re-
affirm their faith in the purposes
and principles of the Charter of
the United Nations and their de-
sire to live in peace with all
peoples and all Governments.
“They are determined to safe-
guard the freedom, common
heritage and civilisation of their
peoples, founded on the prin-
ciples of democracy, individual
liberty and the rule of law.
“They seek to promote
stability and wellbeing in the
North Atlantic area.
“They are resolved to unite
their efforts for collective de-
fence and for the preservation
of peace and security.”
Parties’ Obligations
In the first article of the treaty
the parties specifically reaffirm
their obligations under the
Charter to settle any inter-
national disputes in which they
may be involved, not only with
each other but with any nation,
by peaceful means and in such
a manner that peace, security
and justice are not endangered
and to refrain from the threat
or use of force in any manner
inconsistent with the purposes of
the United Nations.
In subsequent articles the
parties undertake the following
commitments:
1. To strengthen their free in-
stitutions, promote conditions of
stability and wellbeing and en-
courage economic collaboration.
2. Maintain and develop their
individual and collective
capacity to resist armed attack.
3. Consult if the territorial in-
tegrity, political independence
or security of any one of the
parties is threatened.
4. Consider an armed attack
on any one of the parties as an
attack against all and, conse-
quently take such individual and
collective action, including the
use of armed force, as each
party considers necessary to re-
store and maintain the security
of the North Atlantic area.
Congress Role
By entering into this North
Atlantic pact the United States
recognises the fact that any
armed attack upon any nation
party to the treaty would so
threaten the national security of
the United States as to be in
effect an attack upon the United
States.
Under the United States Con-
stitution, Congress alone has the
power to declare war. This
Constitutional question, how-
ever, does not present a real
obstacle to the pact. The United
States certainly can obligate it-
self in advance to take such
action, including the use of
armed force, as it deems, neces-
sary to meet armed attack affect-
ing its national security. The
—Washington “Post.”
THE COLD WAR GETS EVEN MORE SO.
fact that the fulfilment of a
treaty obligation—as far as a
declaration of war is concerned
—depends upon the action of
Congress does not inhibit the
United States from undertaking
the commitment. It is believed
that the spirit underlying the
North Atlantic Pact, as well as
its language, correctly expresses
and makes clear the determina-
tion of the American people to
resist such attack by whatever
means may be necessary.
Article 5 of the pact comprises
a solemn engagement that each
party will exercise honest and
genuine judgment in determining
what action is necessary for the
restoration of peace when
another party has been attacked.
To Prevent War
The purpose of the pact is to
strengthen the peace by making
clear that the parties are pre-
pared to do their utmost, indi-
vidually or together, to main-
tain it and to act together if any
one of them is attacked. The
parties to the pact believe that
they have the most to lose and
the least to gain from another
conflict. They are convinced
that. While defeat may mean
complete disaster, even the vic-
tor in modern war loses more
than it gains. They are con-
vinced that war itself must be
prevented. The North Atlantic
Pact is their joint effort, in keep-
ing with the spirit and obliga-
tions of the Charter of the
United Nations, to ensure peace
and prevent war. It is an agree-
ment among nations which have
given clear proof that they do
not wish war, that they wish
only to live in peace and security
and (hat they will defend them-
selves when attacked.
The clear intention of the
parties to the pact to take united
action, coupled with the prepara-
tion of the means to do so,
should remove the danger of
miscalculation by any potential
aggressor that he could succeed
in overcoming them one by one.
If a similar clear indication of
the firm intention of the free
nations had been given early
enough in the course of Nazi
aggressions, the Axis Powers
might well have stopped before
they precipitated a war in 1939.
Faced with sufficient firmness,
potential aggressors have always
paused. Firmness does not in
itself provide solutions of the
underlying problems, but it does
increase .the readiness of am-
bitious nations to seek solutions
by negotiations rather than by
force.
Area Protected
The mutual assistance provi-
sions of Article 5 of the pact will
apply to the territory of any of
the parties in Europe, North
America and the Algerian de-
partments of France ; and to the
occupational forces of any party
in Europe, as well as to the
Atlantic Ocean north of the
Tropic of Cancer. It may be
enlarged as other States become
parties to the agreement.
Original signers of the pact,
Belgium, Canada, France, Lux-
embourg, the Netherlands, Nor-
way, the United Kingdom and
the United States, and also Den-
mark, Iceland, Italy and Portu-
gal if they wish to sign ; and all
signed (on April 4). The text
of the treaty provides that
the parties may, by unanimous
agreement, invite any other
“European State in a position to
further the principles of this
treaty and to contribute to the
security of the North Atlantic
area” to become a party to the
pact.
Various considerations, in this
official U.S. view, make it im-
possible to contemplate all or
part of Germany now becoming
a member of the North Atlantic
Pact. The question of Spain’s
participation in the pact is a
matter for decision by all the
members, most of whom do not
now consider that Spain should
be included.
If any other European coun-
tries which do not become
original signatories indicate an
interest in the North Atlantic
Pact, inviting them to accede
would be a decision to be taken
by the members as a group.
No Time Limit
The pact provides for the set-
ting up of a council on which
each of the parties will be repre-
sented and directs that the coun-
cil “shall be so organised as to
be able to meet promptly at any
time.” The council itself is re-
quired to “set up such subsidiary
bodies as may be necessary; in
particular it shall establish im-
mediately a defence committee
which shall recommend mea-
sures for the implementation of
Articles 3 and 5.”
The North Atlantic Pact con-
tains no time limit. It provides
that after 10 years, or at any
time thereafter, the parties may
review the treaty to determine
whether any changes would be
desirable in the light of the in-
ternational situation at the time
and the progress made in de-
veloping, through the United
Nations, methods of assuring in-
ternational security on both a
universal and- a regional basis.
It provides also that after 20
years any nation may withdraw
from the treaty after giving one
year’s notice.
After signature and ratifica-
tion through the Constitutional
processes of the individual coun-
tries instruments of ratification
will be deposited with the United
States Government. The treaty
will come into force when the
ratifications of the majority of
the signatories, including Bel-
gium, Canada, France, Luxem-
bourg, the Netherlands, the
United Kingdom and the United
States have been deposited.
Helping U.N.O.
The Atlantic Pact is designed
to help bring about world condi-
tions which will permit the
United Nations to function as
contemplated at the San Fran-
cisco conference. The expecta-
tion that the co-operation among
the great Powers pledged during
the war and U.N. reflected in
the Charter would be continued
has not been realised. The most
important of the peace settle-
ments have not been agreed
upon, and, largely because of
Soviet obstruction and abuse of
the veto, the United Nations has
not yet become so fully effective
in achieving collective security as
had been hoped.
Since the signing of the
Charter it has become progres-
sively clearer that serious mis-
conceptions prevail in the minds
of the leaders of the Soviet
Union concerning Western civi-
lisation and concerning what is
possible and what is impossible
in the relations between the
Soviet Union and the world at
large.
In international relations
efforts of the Western Powers to
reach agreements providing
genuine solutions for many of
the most important post-war
problems have thus far proved
fruitless because of Soviet in-
transigence. Nonetheless, the
parties to the North Atlantic
Pact solemnly and specifically
reaffirm their- obligation under
the Charter to settle any inter-
national dispute by peaceful
means and in such a manner
that peace, security and justice
are not endangered. In the pact
they pledge themselves anew to
strive toward that end.
The North Atlantic Pact de-
fines the security of the North
Atlantic area and the conse-
quences of infringement upon
that security. It should thereby
enhance the likelihood of reach-
ing peaceful solutions to pending
problems by making clear the
consequences of resort to force.
Its relation to the objectives of
the United Nations Charter was
summed up in these terms by
Warren R. Austin, United States
Ambassador to the United
Nations:
“The North Atlantic Pact pro-
vides most persuasive evidence
that aggression is unwise and
that peaceful collaboration is the
course that should henceforth be
adopted.
“Emphasis should be placed
on the character of the action
that is proposed. The aim is to
discourage aggression by show-
ing a firm determination to re-
sist armed attack. Its character
is defensive. Its object is
peace
“The use of force provided for
by this pact is of the same
character as that provided for
by the United Nations Charter ;
namely, to prevent war. It
promises prompt resistance by
interposing collective force
against an aggressor nation.
“Conclusion of the North At-
lantic Pact would reduce the
likelihood of war. It would in-
crease the prospects of peace. It
would help us turn to a major
task of the United Nations —the
substition of pacific settlements
for armed conflict.”
Comment on the Pact
Mr, Truman:
“The American people desire,
and are determined to work for,
a world in which all nations and
all peoples are free to govern
themselves as they see fit and to
achieve a decent and satisfying
life. Above all else, our people
desire, and are determined to
work for, peace on earth —a just
and lasting peace—based on
genuine agreement freely arrived
at by equals.
“The third of the four major
courses of United States action
is directed squarely at a peace
based on genuine agreement
freely arrived at by equals. The
principle and method are tied
clearly together.
“We will strengthen freedom-
loving nations against the
dangers of aggression.
“The primary purpose of these
agreements [North Atlantic and
Rio Pacts] is to provide unmis-
takable proof of the joint deter-
mination of the free countries to
resist armed attack from any
quarter. Each country partici-
pating in these arrangements
must contribute all it can to the
common defence.
“If we can make it sufficiently
clear, in advance, that any armed
attack affecting our national
security would be met with over-
whelming force the armed attack
might never occur.”
* * ♦ *
“Wall-street Journal” has its
doubts:
“Mr. John Foster Dulles [the
Republican leader] has warned
of the danger of ‘bringing
United States military might’
directly to Russia’s Scandinavian
border.
“Since what the American
people have been told of the At-
lantic Pact contains no sugges-
tion that anything of the sort
might happen, the question
arises whether the proposed
treaty will, in fact, commit the
United States to more than re-
garding an attack on one of the
signatories as an attack on all
and taking action in the event of
such an attack.
“If the pact does—explicitly
or implicitly commit this
country to secure bases in the
neighborhood of Russian fron-
tiers or to any similar action
which the Soviet Union could
justifiably consider provocative,
it ought to be subjected to the
closest scrutiny with an eye to-
ward rejecting it.
“The Soviet Union can call
anything it wants provocation.
It does call the proposed Atlan-
tic Pact aggressive. But there
is a great difference between
what is termed provocation for
propaganda purposes and what
constitutes genuine provocation.
As Mr. Dulles implies, overt
United States military activity
in Norway would be as real a
provocation as comparable
Soviet activity in Canada or
Mexico —if such activity in those
places were possible.
“It is the difference between
telling Russia that if it crosses
the Norwegian border it is going
to be in a lot of trouble from a
lot of sources and actually send-
ing American and Western
European troops to defend that
border in anticipation of pos-
sible aggression. The one is. a
clear warning; the other is pro-
vocation. It is provocation be-
cause it justifiably appears to
threaten Russia’s vital interests.
“There is a tendency in Wash-
ington to become so bemused
with ‘overall strategic considera-
tions’ —it is imperative to have
bases in this place or that place
—that the dangers of provoca-
tion are obscured.
“All things being equal, it
would be a reasonable assess-
ment of the present international


BY APPOINTMENT
SCHWEPPES LT'O.
Mineral water MANUFACTOtHR
TO H. M: KINS GEORGE VI.
/
AERATED WATERS
and
FRUIT JUICE CORDIALS
✓
Famous Since 1790
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL LEADING STORES AND HOTELS
VISIT
SCHWEPPES PAVILION
AT
ROYAL EASTER SHOW
situation to say that the Soviet
Union will not go to war or do
things which can only lead to
war until it believes it has a fair
chance of winning that war. The
advantage of a clear statement
that an attack on one Atlanic
Pact signatory is to be regarded
as an attack on all is that it
underscores the fact that certain
things the Soviet Union might do
would very possibly lead to
w^r.
“But if the Soviet Union at
the same time is made to feel
that it is being backed into a
corner it may be impelled to dis-
regard the dictates of sound
military reasoning. It is possible,
in other words, to poke the bear
too much or in such a way that
it thinks it has no choice but to
turn and fight.”
* * * *
N. Y. “World - Telegram”
(also referring to the Dulles
speech);
“It seems to us absurd for
anyone to dogmatise on whether
and when Russia plans conquest
by open military aggression. But
the fact that Russia militarised
her own country and her satel-
lites after the war, when Wes-
tern Europe and America vir-
tually disarmed, does not sug-
gest that the purpose of the Red
Army is entirely defensive.
“Mr. Dulles, of course, did
not intend to imply that arming
tire Atlantic Pact nations ex-
posed to Soviet attack would
menace' Russia, but rather that
Red leaders might think it did.
Aggressors usually charge they
are being encircled as an excuse
for attacking weak and exposed
nations. Small neighbors of
Russia, such as Norway and
Turkey, cannot defend them-
selves without American sup-
plies and without the collective-
security allies sanctioned by the
United Nations.
“Dictators are to be judged
by their acts, not by their alibis
and not by trying to read their
minds. On the record Russia
has behaved as an aggressor and
the United States has not. Soviet
threats have forced the free
world to band together and re-
arm. Doubtless, this displeases
Stalin. But it is far safer to risk
his displeasure than Jo face his
expanding military might with-
out arms or allies.”
* * * *
N. Y. “Times,” -editorially
describing the pact as “states-
manship at its best” :
“Publication of the text is ac-
companied by such general and
enthusiastic endorsement of the
treaty as ‘one of the greatest
steps toward world peace and
security’ that prompt ratification
by all the participating nations
would seem to be assured.
“Under this pact eight Atlan-
tic nations, whose number is
—Johannesburg “Star.”
“DOUBLE. DOUBLE, TOIL AND TROUBLE.”
likely to be increased to 12,
representing more than
330,000,000 people, agree to con-
cert their policies and to com-
bine their efforts on the basis of
effective selfhelp and mutual aid
to defend themselves against
armed attack from any quarter
and to safeguard peace, freedom
and democracy under the rule of
law. They do so in conformity
with the United Nations Charter,
which recognises both the right
of individual and collective self-
defence and the formation of
regional organisations to make
this right effective. They also
take due regard both of their
existing treaty obligations, such
as in the British and French
alliances with Russia against
Germany, and of the fact that
either by Constitutional provi-
sion, as in the United States and
France or by Parliamentary
practice, as in the rest of the
democracies, only the national
Parliaments can declare or sanc-
tion war.
“It is in the exercise of the
right of self-defence that they
have made this pact. The pact
itself menaces no nation that
does not threaten others. Its
ultimate purpose is not to pre-
pare for war but to save the
peace by restoring a balance of
power which will discourage
aggression and make the resort
to the right of self-defence un-
necessary. In that respect the
fourth and fifth articles of the
pact assume decisive importance.
“Under Article 4 the signa-
tory nations merely agree to
consult together whenever the
territorial integrity, political in-
dependence or security of any of
them is threatened. But if his
threat develops into an armed
attack on any one of them they
obligate themselves under Article
5 to consider this an attack
against all and to assist the
nation thus attacked ‘by taking
forthwith, individually and in
concert with the other parties,
such action as it deems neces-
sary,- including the use of armed
force, to restore and maintain
the security of the North Atlan-
tic area.’
“This does not mean, as Sec-
retary of State Acheson empha-
sises, that the United States
would be automatically com-
mitted to go to war if one of the
contracting nations i§ attacked.
But the United States, in com-
pany with all signatory nations,
would be obligated, both
morally and legally, to take
promptly whatever action it
deemed necessary to fulfill the
purposes of the pact. The nature
of such action would naturally
be determined by the circum-
stances of the attack and by the
measures necessary to meet it—
factors which would also deter-
mine the attitude of the Ameri-
can people and of Congress,”
* * * *
N. Y. “Daily News” takes a
poor view of it:
Uncle Sam or Sap is now in
process of making official his
scrapping of President George
Washington’s solemn warning to
this country to keep out of
foreign entanglements and alli-
ances.
This treaty, if ratified by the
parties to it, will line up at least
eight countries against Soviet
Russia. The eight: U.S.A.,
Britain, Canada, France, Bel-
gium, Holland, Luxembourg,
Norway. Expected to join later:
Italy, Portugal, Denmark, Ice-
land. Maybe still later: Spain,
Ireland.
That the treaty will be rati-
fied by the necessary two-thirds
majority of the United States
Senate we have almost no doubt.
We’d like to see it booted out of
the Senate window, but we don’t
think it will be.
What will the document let us
in for?
Article 5 is the core and ker-
nel of the whole scrap of paper.
In this passage the parties agree
that an armed attack against one
or more of them shall be re-
garded as an attack against all.
In such case “each of them.....
will assist the party or parties so
attacked by taking forthwith, in-
dividually and in concert with
the other parties, such action as
it deems necessary, including the
use of armed force, to restore
and maintain the security of the
North Atlantic area.”
The phrase “such action as it
deems necessary” is the cutie. It
constitutes a blow to the U.S.
—Chicago "Tribune.”
RUSSIA SHIFTS ITS TOP COMMUNISTS.
Constitution’s flat declaration
that Congress shall have the
power to declare war. So if any
of these nations is attacked we
shall go to war only if Congress
gives the word.
If recent history is any indi-
cator, this treaty will make it
easier than ever for a war-
minded President to finagle us to
the brink of war and thereby
force Congress to come up with
the formal declaration. Roose-
velt did it. So did Wilson.
Neither had a North Atlantic
Treaty to smooth his road to
war.
Even before the treaty text be-
came public Dean Acheson’s
State Department announced
that the U.S. will “implement”
the agreement by sending the
other treaty nations enough war
gear to equip completely their
existing air, sea and ground mili-
tary units.
These shipments will start
July 1, continue for 15 months
and cost us from from one to
two thousand millions of dol-
lars.
Thus we shall give away large
numbers of first-class weapons
which we could use ourselves in
an emergency. We shall give
them to nations which (except
for Great Britain and Canada)
put up sadly ineffective resist-
ance to Hitler, do not want
another war any time soon and
are frightened stiff of Soviet
Russia.
Two of these nations —France
and Italy—are honeycombed
with Communist traitors who
say frankly that they will sup-
port the Red Army if it enters
their countries. A third —Great
Britain —is run by Socialists who
keep cutting down its armed
forces, spend more and more on
social services which cannot help
national defence and charge the
deficits to Uncle Sam or Sap.
All of which means that this
treaty will force us to dilute our
strength, to spread ourselves thin
and to do so for the benefit of a
bunch of weak sisters whose will
and power to fight are open (o
the gravest question.
And Secretary Acheson, in a
news conference yesterday,
opined that we might be obli-
gated to fight even if the Reds
should start a revolution in
France or Italy without any
armed help from Russia. There
we have an early indication of
how far Acheson and his fellow-
idealists and world-reformers
can be expected to drag us if
the Senate ratifies the treaty.
As stated, wq don’t see more
than a ghost of a chance of a
Senate defeat for this scrap of
paper.
If it gets the hoped-for result
—if it actually prevents a Rus-
sian attack on Western civilisa-
tion and finally convinces the
Kremlin thugs that they cannot
conquer the world for Commun-
ism—then we think nobody will
have just cause to complain.
But if, as now seems more
likely, the North Atlantic Treaty
provokes Russia to attack before
Western Europe is rearmed —
thereby bringing on World War
111, with the American people
carrying the main load of blood,
sweat, toil and tears.as in I and
ll—then history’s verdict against
Acheson and the other U.S.
engineers of this agreement will
be a damaging verdict indeed.
As the old and ominous say-
ing goes, we shall see what we
shall see.
* * * *
Christian Science Monitor’s
comment:-
From London and from Aus-
tralia comes word of a Pacific
alliance in the making—a global
twin sister to the Atlantic Pact.
The sources of the news are
signific f nt - ThiB * a British-
or at least a Commonwealth—
undertaking. It reflects the long-
held British desire to build a
south-east Asian anti rnmmnni<jt
Woe Ind a the ' Te
lengthen CommonweTth to
i n the Tndn Pncific wnrlti r.u
f s c?one extends hevnnd S?
Commonweaftr Ld AmeriSn
in h? n • ? a h u Y '
ramb ° W
T? across me Pacific.
u Yet tb e foundation on which
tbe ar . cb rest . lB 8 16 co "
°P eratl , on of the Asian peoples
No longer can a
British, Dutch and French coali-
tlon ’ Wltb American backing,
impose a “defence system” on
any large part of Asia,
If American power were un-
limited it might be possible to
fasten such a form of resurgent
imperialism on that continent
for a considerable period. But
European necessities already
constitute a drain on American
resources which do not permit
this possibility, even if public
opinion should support it.
Peripheral defenses can be
strengthened from without the
Asian world, but the psychologi-
cal solidarity which would be all-
important to a genuine Indo-
Pacific defence pact can be won
only by the willing co-operation
of that world.
There is no question but that
the countries of south-east Asia
are alarmed by the Communist
steamroller in China. The re-
cent New Delhi conference
showed also that they are un-
easy about the Balkanisation and
political disintegration of their
part of the world, with its con-
sequent open invitation to Com-
munist penetration. Yet their
fervent desire to stick together
for mutual aid and comfort
runs up against the plain fact
that they lack the political and
industrial power to give meaning
to such a regional grouping.
India, as the natural non-
Communist leader of an Asian
bloc, has carefully discouraged
any unrealistic hopes that it
might attempt to build such a
bloc at this time. But India, as
an Asian Power with a special
relation to the British Common-
wealth, stands to gain much
from helping to mediate a de-
fence pact which would balance
Asian support against Western
concession.
It must be recognised that a
Pacific Pact would necessarily be
something quite different from
its Atlantic sister. Its psycho-
logical importance in providing
a counter-attraction to Chinese
Communist successes would out-
weigh its military possibilities.
The Atlantic Pact has been
built on the Marshall Plan,
While in general the signatories
to a Pacific Pact would not face
the necessity of rebuilding a
war-ravaged economy, some of
them would face the necessity of
dealing with revolutionary pres-
sures which have been intensify-
ing through long years of politi-
cal servitude and marginal exist-
ence. Hence no pact guarantee-
ing minimal defences can mean
much without long-range contri-
butions of technical advice, capi-
tal development and, above all,
sympathy with the aspirations of
the troubled Indo-Pacific world.


A JOB AT THE REACH
BY CECIL MANN
HIS head some-
where up
near the
smoked raf-
ters, with his frayed
and stained cabbage-
tree hat still clamped
on it, and his tufted
grey eyebrows over-
hanging his long
face like a pair of
balconies, the Doc-
tor, as they called
him, held aloft the
bottle of Australian
whisky he had fished
from his bag and the
glass Dinny had
quickly provided.
“As the poet in-
structs us,” the very
sober Doctor de-
claimed down at
Dinny,
“Come, fill the cup, and in the fire of spring
The winter garment of repentance fling,
The bird of time has but a little way
To fly; and 10, the bird is on the wing”
“You niwer spoke a truer word in your
life,” declared the even soberer Dinny,
fairly jigging from one foot to the other
on the earth-floor of his river-bank hut;
his bright little eyes dancing, too, in their
general frame of close-curled ginger
whiskers. Apropos of nothing but the joy
welling in his heart, he matched the
Doctor’s recitative by breaking into song,
keeping time with the other empty glass
in his hand:
“Brian O’Linn had no breeches to wear,
He got an old sheepskin to make him a
pair.
With the fleshy side out and the woolly
side in,
‘They’ll he pleasant and cool," says Brian
O’Linn.”
“A song,” pronounced the Doctor, “I’d
not had the pleasure of hearing up to
now. Dinny, as I will call you”
“As of carse you will,” Dinny broke
in, licking his whiskered top lip in pleas-
urable anticipation. “And I shall call
your honor by the same name I know
you to be known by, and no other. And
what, if I may ask it, was yourself once a
Doctor of? Was it a Doctor now of
Medicine, or of Laws, or of Letters, or,”
Dinny hazarded, striking a pious attitude
with his empty hand over his heart,
“maybe now it was no other than a
Doctor of Divinity.”
“As you knew me on sight, Dinny,”
said the Doctor, “I’ve no doubt you’re
aware I’ve been such things as Doctor of
Mail Delivering, Doctor of the Town
Pound, Doctor of Odd Jobs, and for some
time now, until this, shall I say, open-air
position at whatshisname’s, Cashman’s,
brought me down here. Doctor of Doing
Precisely Nothing.”
“Well, now,” Dinny sought to apolo-
gise, “it was none of my business to be
asking you. But I’ve known you to be
spoken of as the Doc and the Doctor,
and I think you’ll agree it’s only human
and no more to be wonderin’. And just
a minute now —while you’d be doing the
honors I’ll take a peep into the pot.
You’ll of carse be staying to be having a
bite of dinner with me.”
“That, Dinny my friend, was exactly
the idea,” unblushingly admitted the
Doctor, as Dinny danced over to lift the
lid and look into the round black pot
hung on a wire-hook over the open fire
at that end of the hut.
“Was it and all?” said Dinny, sniffing
appreciatively at the steam before popping
back the lid. “Well, now, I like an honest
answer, anyway.”
“Not wholly my own idea, though,” the
Doctor explained. “ A man named Tom
Mason”
“Mason? Ah, yes, now. He has his
farm just over the water there, and a
good farm, too. The best farmer indeed
down this way, Cashman and all.”
“Mason told me to just mention his
name, and you’d ask me to stay and have
a bite of dinner with you. I can repeat
his words: ‘Especially,’ he said, ‘if you
happen to have a nip of whisky to offer
him.’ ”
“Ha, did he now?” ,
“And I’m forgetting ordinary polite-
ness, Dinny. It’s living too much
by one’s self, and the bad manners they
have in the hotels these days. Here, take
it and pour your own.”
“No, no, there’s no need for that now,”
Dinny assured him, taking the bottle
nevertheless, and at once pouring himself
a thumping nip ; breaking again into song
as he handed the bottle back:
"At the foot of the hill there’s a neat little
still.
Where the smoke curls up to the sky;
By a whiff of the smell you can plainly
tell
That there’s poitin, boys, close by.
For it fills the air with a perfume rare,
And betwixt both me and you.
As home we roll, we can drink a bowl,
Or a bucketful of mountain dew.
Hi the dithery al the dal,
Dal the dal the dithery al” -
“They didn’t tell me I’d get entertain-
ment as well,” laughed the Doctor, pour-
ing himself a tidy one also, to match
Dinny’s. “I met this friend of yours, Tom
Mason, up in Town at Cliff Kershaw the
Barber’s. He said you could tell me all
there was to know about Cashman and
this job of his I’m going to.”
“I suppose he’s right,” said Dinny.
“I’ve lived here now as long as most of
them. But of carse you might say there’s
niwer so much happens in a place like
this. Ah, yes now, I beg ydur pardon.
You’d be likin’ a drop of water with it.
Here you are then, here’s a bucket of it,
and a cup to dip it with. And good luck
to you and the job, too,” Dinny con-
cluded, at once taking a hearty swig,
without water.
“All the best,” supplemented the
Doctor, his gaze at Dinny acknowledging
a tougher throat than his own.
“That’s better now,” Dinny pro-
nounced, looking lovingly at what re-
mained in his glass. “It reminds me just
of the lovely stuff I used to drink when
I was a boy. But now, now, you must
be making yourself more at home. You
sit on the bunk there, and I'll take a seat
on this armchair of a kerosene-box, and
be at your service. There, that’s right;
and hang your hat on the pillow. Now,
this job you’re thinkin’ of under-
takin’ ”
“I just happened to be there at the
barber’s,” the Doctor stated, putting the
corked bottle down between his feet.
“Your friend Mason was having his hair
cut; and the wireless Kershaw has there
in the corner stopped its music and
started talking about this fine, well-paid
position for the right man at Mr, W. H.
Cashman’s down at the Reach.”
<‘\l/HAT do you know about that
VV now?” exclaimed Dinny. “Won-
ders’ll niwer cease. Well, well —to think
of William Cashman offering a job on
the wireless. It just goes to show you
how hard it is to get men these days.
Did you say he spoke it himself?”
“No, not Cashman himself,” said the
Doctor. “It’d be that same exquisite voice
that has informed us of war, and peace,
and the race results, and the openmg of
the cheese-factory and other great events,”
“Ha, now, 1 thought it’d niwer be
Cashman. For,” added Dinny, “one good
and especial reason”
“That he’s no speaker?”
“Oh, now. He can speak all right.
You might say he has a ginerous use of
his tongue. Mind you,” Dinny added, by
way of giving some benefit to the absent,
“I have heard worse —or better, as you
might say. I knew a man once I’d back
for the swearing championship against
all comers on the face of the earth. But
there now, the air will be turning it bad
on us. Here’s good fortune to you.”
“Good luck,” said the Doctor.
Tall and short, they tilted their heads
and drank ; the Doctor making something
of a splutter of it; Dinny running his
tongue round his bristles for the last drop.
“You know,” Dinny related of the
event that kept his existence there a state
of combined perpetual mourning and
wishful hope, “across the water from
where you’d have got off the bus at the
punt there used to be a fine two-story
pub, but seven years ago this very month
some unprincipled rogue burnt it to the
ground.”
“You were telling me about Cashman,”
the Doctor broke in, with the thought
that it would call for some ingenuity to
get out of Dinny’s hut with anything left
of the whisky “As the wireless an-
nounced it, it’s giving his three children
some elementary instruction, and help-
ing sometimes about the farm, and four
times a week with the net-fishing. For,”
the Doctor commented, “the remarkable
salary even in these days of nine pounds
a week.”
“And no takers at that!” exclaimed
Dinny, contemplating the healthy-looking
state of the bottle “Mind you, it’s the
fishing now the money is in and not the
farm And anyone that wants to work is
so hard to come by.”
“You were talking of him swearing,”
said the Doctor. “What is he —a bad-
tempered sort of fellow?”
“It’s a bit of this and a bit of that,”
Dinny explained. “And, anyway, as I was
tellin’ you before, I knew one man who
could have given his Excellency Mr.
Cashman a long start at swearin’ and got
to hell ahead of him.”
“Come to that,” declared the Doctor,
“I knew one myself I’d have backed
against your man, too, Dinny. He never
stopped swearing. You’d think he didn’t
know any other language.”
“This fellow I’m tellin’ you of,” Dinny
persisted; “I heard him one day drivin’
his harses up a hill and it was the greatest
piece of profanity ever I listened to.
There’s one of his harses, a big bay one,
was jibbin’, and I know what he’d been
sayin’ to it on the way up because I’d
followed him, listenin’ thin, come to
the top of the hill, he broke the whip
now clean off the handle, and he flung it
away in a rage, and there he is, dancin’
mad and speechless. He’s clenchin’ his
fist and tryin’ to get his speech back, and
just then who should appear cornin’ by
him but two Sisters of Mercy, two nuns,
y’ know.
“Well, now, they came there just as his
voice returned to him, and there he is,
holdin’ both his fists clenched to Hivven,
and what he’s cryin’ out is this: ‘You,
you, you, you!’ he’s shoutin’, and his
voice is goin’ up the scale to a treble, so
that he’s damn’ near to cryin’. ‘You, you,
you,’ he says. ‘A man ought to get a big
stick and hit you with it.’
“And what I say now is this,” said
Dinny. “I say a man who would make
those words sound the worst language
ever I heard was a world champion and
nothing else.”
“I think I see what you mean, Dinny,”
said the Doctor. “The one I was talking
about was a New England man”
“Was he now?” interrupted Dinny.
“Just a minute. Doctor now, before you
begin, till I have another look at the pot.”
He took a quick look, gave the wood of
the fire a kick and returned. “It’s cookin’
beautifully,” he pronounced. “And now
it’s about my turn to shout, isn’t it.
Doctor?” he added, taking up the
Doctor’s bottle and glass and offering
them.
“Thank you, Dinny. I don’t mind if I
do,” said the Doctor, admitting the
manoeuvre, eyeing the pot on the fire and
sniffing the air. He anticipated Dinny by
pouring out another stiff one for himself
before handing back the bottle.
“I’d still,” he persisted, “be ready to
back the one I knew up in New England
—that is, if he was still on deck. He
isn’t. He was swearing away one day
at the pub ; he’d had too much of it, and
they’d had too much of him. So they
locked him up in a shed down the back,
and you never heard anything like
it. He’s in there, swearing away at the
top of his voice. Then all of a sudden
he stopped, in the middle of a burst of it.
“Yes,” concluded the Doctor, “and
when they had a look in to see what he
was up to, there he was, as peaceful as
you like. Dead ”
“Rest his soul,” cried Dinny “Why,
that’s the very man I was talkin’ of
myself! It’s a small world; and now
it’s a dry argument, Here’s a better end-
ing to all of us.”
The Doctor now needing no further
urging, they drank; Dinny licking sav-
ingly round his mouth and breaking into
song:—
"Hi the dithery al the dat t
Dal the dal the dithery al.
Dal the dal dal.
Dithery al the dee ’''
“A royal song,” shouted the Doctor,
swaying in time on the bunk.
"A royal song indeed,” agreed Dinny.
“One I learnt from my dear old mother
when I was a child:
“Away with pills it will cure all ills.
Of the Pagan, Christian or Jew;
So take off your coat and grease your
throat . .
With the real old mountain dew.
“Hi the dithery al the dal!” chorused
the Doctor.
“Ha,” exclaimed E)inny, warming up
to the goodness of things; “I see you’re
a man after me own heart. I could be
wishin’ you’d find
the work down at
Cashman’s to your
liking. We’d have
seen more of each
other,”
OU were tell-
* ing me about
it when we got off
the track on to
swearing,” laughed
the Doctor. “About
this work”
“Here’s all success
to you,” Dinny pro-
posed, emptying his
glass, and the Doc-
tor more slowly
doing likewise. “The
teaching now. Doc-
tor, you’d be able to
manage with the
greatest of ease, and
I might venture to say efficiency. The bit
of farmwork is nothing a man like you
couldn’t do, either. No; it’s haulin’ on
the net at night I was thinkin’ of’
“Did you say night?” said the Doctor,
leaning forward on the bunk.
“I did that,” Dinny told him. “Mind
you now, it’s nothing to worry about at
this time of the year. The water’s still
warm; and, anyway, when you’re there
up to your waist in it haulin’ away
at the net, with the fish splashin’ all round
you, you’ll hardly be for noticin the
cold now.”
“I’ve no particular objection to cold
water as such,” the Doctor declared, feel-
ing warm enough inside at the moment.
“Then,” Dinny assured him, “this job
might be suitin’ you right down to the
ground. Mind you, there’s some would
say it’s a lonely stretch of water down
there at the Reach ; but that wouldn’t be
troublin’ anyone like yourself now. It’s
your brainless bodies that can’t bear
bein’ alone, because they have nothing
to think about or to think with, either.
It’s just—l don’t know—well, it’s got a
bare sort of a look about it, shall I say;
and it’s the curlews and plover cryin’
about the flats, and the noise the black
water itself makes at night with the fish
in it and all. And there’s a wind blows
there most of the year round from the
north-east; as it does here, too, for that
matter. But down there it must have an
extra strength given to it by somethin’,
for what trees there are are bent double
like old women standin’ about.”
“I don’t mind a bit of wind,” remarked
the Doctor, in a mood to face hurricanes,
“It blows the cobwebs out of your lungs.”
“It’ll do that all right,” declared Dinny.
“For me own part, I like it; but, as I was
pointin’ out, it’d make the fishin’ a bit
wild at night, with the fish splashin’ and
some rain failin’ and whatnot. But look
now, I’m forgettin’ our dinner, with all
this enjoyable talk we’re havin’.
“Ha, now,” he pronounced from the
fire, “it’s coming along nicely”; adding,
as he returned to his seat and contem-
plated the still comforting state of the
bottle, “It’ll be a while yet, though.”
“I’ll do justice to it whenever it is,”
said the Doctor.
“You will that,” agreed Dinny.
“There’s no doubt about a taste of good
spirits to be whetting the appetite”
“Here it is,” said the Doctor, lifting up
what Dinny was looking at. “We’ll have
one more, anyway, before we eat.”
“I think we well might,” declared Dinny,
helping himself without further prelimin-
aries. “It’s a notorious thing,” he added,
as the Doctor lowered the half-emptied
bottle to the earth-floor, “it’s a notorious
thing how these wowsers are all as thin
and miserable and sorry for themselves as
wet hens.”
“I say, Dinny, I’m not so fat myself,’
the Doctor, with a laugh, reminded him.
“And you niwer spoke a truer word
than that, either,” said Dinny, sniffing at
his glass. “But you’re far indeed now
from looking sorry and miserable.” Dinny
looked from his glass to measure the re-
assuring contents left in the bottle.
“Now,” he narrated, “there was one used
to come down this way of the kind I have
in mind. God rest his poor miserable
soul, he doesn’t come now,” Dinny com-
mented feelingly “Here’s good fortune
to you.” , _
“Hi the dithery al the dal," the Docto£
began intoning.
“The dal the dal the dithery al, Dinny
contributed. “Come on now, it’s goin
bad on us.” .
They drank; the Doctor m gulps;
Dinny with a fine long flowing action.
“This fellow I’m tellin’ you of,” Dinny
went on, “he’d always be cornin’ down
here fishin’ by himself, though why he d
want to be doin’ that with the thoughts
he should have had I don’t know. He d
have been cornin’ down over there on the
other side for—ah, let me see now—well,
it’d be for a great many years. There was
a lot of queer things about him, and one
of thim, as came out at the inquest—l
mean, the inquest on the poor girl now
well, as I was sayin’, one of the queer


things about him was that he always
fished with just light lines for small fish,
like the bream and whiting and small
flathead. .
“Meself now,” said Dinny, “I asked
him there one day why he’d not be usin’ a
heavy line for the big jewies that were
about, as thick as flies, at the time. Well,
he was one of those fellows you can’t get
so far with. You can get nothin’ out
of thim. He had an odd sort of a name ;
it was Funnell—Funnell, y’ know, the
thing the smoke goes up, and be all
accounts he’ll be knowin’ all about smoke,
too, long before this.
“Yes, now,” Dinny proceeded, “as it
came out, this Funnell never wanted to
be catchin’ big fish, and I’d say that was
for the one reason, and the one reason
only. It was just that he was frightened
of thim. And that was one queer thing
about him ; and there was more. It was
a queer business whichever way you look
at it. It goes away back now to
that first war we had ; and your pre-
decessor down there at Cashman’s went
away to it, though he wasn’t with Cash-
man thin. He was a young spark be the
name of Garnett in a solicitor’s office up
in the Town.
“Well, you know how it is—they go
away and leave their girl behind thim,
and this Funnell did a line with her and
married her. He had a motor-car place
up there and doin’ well at it. Arid thin—
listen to this now. Doctor—there’s no
reason for it at all that anyone can see,
unless she’s worried, as they said, on
account of what she’s done herself, but
that war was no sooner over than the
poor girl—she’s become only a bit of a
woman that nobody knows—well, the
war’s no sooner oyer than there she ups
and hangs herself.
“CTO they found, anyway, at the
- s —' inquest on the poor body,” said
Dinny. “But now here’s a funny thing.
There’s a young fellow,there in the police
is not satisfied about it. He builds up a
whole bad case, and it’s a case against
Funnell. Yes, he has different ones come
along to tell the coroner the deceased
young lady had been righthanded and
always was so. And he shows that this
Funnell that did it —I mean that he sug-
gested did it —was lefthanded. And this
young fellow in the police is an authority
on knots, and he showed to everybody’s
satisfaction, or to most people’s, anyway,
that the knots in the neckties the poor
dead body had round her throat could not
have been tied by herself, and could
hardly have been tied, either, by a right-
handed person the way they were placed.
“Now, he didn’t so much as say it,”
Dinny narrated ; “but the questions he
asked left no doubt about what he has
in his mind—that Funnell had married
this girl for the duration, as they say, and
then he up and murdered her.”
“That,” the Doctor put in, swaying
slightly about on the bunk, “was before
I came to this delightful River . . . But,
look here, Dinny, I apologise ; I apologise
over and over. I didn’t notice you’d
emptied your glass. Help yourself, Dinny,
and so will I.”
“Mind you,’ 4 said Dinny, acting with-
out further urging, “they didn’t accept
this murder view of the case at all. No,
they didn’t. And lo and behold it’s
the very solicitor that Garnett had been
a clerk with that got Funnell off. They’re
a race without morals. He shows—at all
events to the coroner’s satisfaction —that
Funnell hadn’t the strength in his body
to lift her up where she was. He has a
doctor along to agree with him ; but what
got Funnell clean off was this same thing
I was telling you of —him always
fishin' with thin lines for small fish, and
only because, according to his solicitor,
he hadn’t the strength in him for haulin’
in and landin’ a big one.
“Well, now,” said Dinny, downing his
whisky and rubbing his lips, with an eye,
too, for what the bottle still held, “the
coroner gintleman himself is one of those
johnnies who go fishin’ sometimes and he
likes to think he’s caught all the imaginary
fish in the world. So he takes this cock
and bull yarn of the solicitor’s, and be-
lieves it.
“Mind you,” Dinny interjected on him-
self, “it might perhaps have been right.
I’m not saying that”
“What about this other fellow,
Garnett,” the Doctor interrupted; “by
this time he was back from the wars?”
“Ah, no now,” declared Dinny. “He
was not. Don’t be thinkin’ it was him
now. He comes back after it was all over,
and that is what he comes back to. And
of carse thin there’s different ones sayin’,
the way they do, that something’d be hap-
pening now, but all he done is to throw
up his job and come down here to work
on the net and about the place for Cash-
man.
“Well, now,” Dinny went on with his
narrative, “this Funnell is always cornin’
down this way, over on the other side
there, fishin’. And so it goes on. He’d
leave his car over there be the punt, and
he’d go fishin’ down along the bank with
his thin bits of gut-lines and his fishin’-
bag. And thin, as you would have heard
yourself. Doctor, one day there not so
long back he disappeared. All there is is
his empty car at the punt, and his bag on
the bank down past here on the other side,
nearly opposite Cashman’s, with one line
in it, and some marks to show where he’d
been movin’ about fishin’ oh the sand.”
“I heard talk of it,” said the Doctor,
some effort in his speech. “They believe
in the Town it was Garnett did it.”
“They might that, too,” said Dinny ;
“though I’ve something I can tell them —
it’s so queer a thing, they mightn’t believe
it, though I know myself it’s the gospel
truth, and nothing else. Now, I just want
you to listen to this, Doctor, because,
I say, it’s a strange thing. And for a start,
it’s because of thim believin’ that about
him that Jim Garnett —and there was
nivver a better fellow in the world, I
can tell you—it’s exactly because of that
that he’s cleared out.
“Now thin,” Dinny proceeded, “just as
you yourself. Doctor, have dropped in
here on myself on your way down, so
Jim Garnett, dropped in here as he’s goin’
away. And like you, too, only it was
rum, he had a drop with him, and we sat
here and talked like this ; reminds
me —I think it is about my shout, is it
not. Doctor? Help yourself now, while
I have a look at the dinner.”
“I don’t mind if I do,” agreed the
Doctor, getting his second wind, as it
were, and indifferent now to the idea of
saving any for after the night-hauling on
the net.
“Ha, still cornin’ along nicely,” Dinny
declared from the fireplace. He returned,
poured himself one that lowered the level
in the bottle appreciably, and took it like
a draught of milk.
“Ah, it’s grand stuff,” he commented.
“Now thin, what was I tellin’ you? Jim
Garnett is seated there on the bunk, just
where you are yourself now. You nivver
met him? He’s a dark, quiet sort of a
man, but whin he gets some of the rum
in him he starts to look wild, and he tells
me one of the queerest things ever I
heard of.
a boatshed, Doctor, you
t might be seein’ down there at Cash-
man’s —it’s the old one, hangin’ further
out over the water than the new one he
has now* along a bit—and, says Garnett,
it’s a great place for fishin’ from at
night for the big jewies, with a good
landin’ place for thim and all. Yes, and
Jim Garnett is fishin’ from inside it this
night, because it’s cold and there’s a fury
of a gale blowin’. He has a great head-
lamp off a motorbike rigged up and
turned to the wall inside so as not to be
frightenin’ the fish; and it’s pitch black
dark outside and the water’s black, and
you can hear the fish snappin’ and
swirlin’, and the wind howlin’; and as
well there’s all this talk about the murder,
as they’re sayin’, of Funnell.
“They’ve all been down there that
day, fairly puttin’ Jim Garnett through
the third degree, though there should have
been no question about it, because all the
afternoon Funnell disappeared—he was
there in the afternoon, and before night
he was missed —well, all through the after-
noon there’s both Garnett and Cashman
workin’ together mendin’ the nets” ;
“A perfect alibi,” the Doctor pro-
nounced. “And I say, Dinny,” he added,
coming to again, “how is our dinner?”
“Let me see now,” said Dinny, agree-
ably, taking the couple of steps over to
the fire. “Ha,” he assured his guest,
measuring that there was, however, still a
fine nip or two left, “just a few more
minutes and it’ll be done to a turn.
“As you say, Doctor,” he got
back to his narrating, “it was an alibi,
and a perfect one; but that’s how it
always is in this world, nobody will be-
lieve it —though, mind you, I’ve nivver
myself heard anybody say anything
against Jim Garnett on that account, and
I wouldn’t like to. As I told you, what
happened was this. He’s there in the boat-
shed by himself boldin' his jewie' line,
and he’s thinkin’, too, about Funnell at
the time.
“Well, he’s there, and it’s all black and
vrild, and he’s lookin’ out to the black
water that he can’t see ; and there, all of a
sudden, he sees something all right As
he told me, it’s something white out there
in the river, and it’s moving. Well, he
grabs the headlamp and turns its flash
out on to the water, and there he sees
what it is.
“It’s caught there in the light—he told
me this now. It’s stickin’ up there in the
light, and it% a white hand held up out
of the water. There’s this white hand and
nothin’ else, mind you, and it’s goin’ slow
through the water, cutting its way like a
boat.
“Yes,” declared Dinny; “and, says
Garnett, he stood there watchin’.it, and
it beckoned to him. Says Garnett to him-
self, ‘That’s him, all right. That’s his
hand.’ And it was thin he notices the
strangest thing of all about it, and it was
this —the hand was movin’ through the
water upstream, against the tide.”
Dinny stopped talking; savoring his
miracle, or the nearer one of the couple
of stout nips still waiting ownership at
the Doctor’s feet.
“Against the tide,” the Doctor puzzled
at it, not quite his normal alert self.
“Against the tide,” repeated Dinny.
“Yes, now, and so Garnett takes his lamp
with him, and goes for the boat. It’s up
there in the reeds be the new boathouse,
and he gets into it, and out he goes. It’s
a fishin’ boat, and he’s at the oars of it,
and the water and the wind and nothin’
else but the stars and all up there lookin’
down at him.
“There’s Jim Garnett now, splashin’ the
phosphorus fire of the water with his
oars, and lookin’ over the side of the
boat, huntin’ for what he’d seen beckonin’
to him. He’s not long, either, before
he’s up with it, because it’s movin’
slow like; and he keeps paddlin’
with one oar and lifts up the light with
his other hand, and it’s a terrible sight
that meets his eyes.
“Yes,” said Dinny, “it’s Funnell all
right, what’s left of him; and Garnett
takes him be the coat and holds him
bumpin’ against the side of the boat.
He’s not lovin’ him, either, as you can
imagine, Doctor. No ; he’s just lookin’
at him, and thinkin’ about the whole lot
of it. He’s got Funnell bumpin’ there
against the boat, with the light on him,
and first he sees the line tangled round
his legs. It’s a thin line, too, but he notices
what he concludes Funnell hadn’t noticed
—and that’s'this, that it’s one of those
new nylon lines.
“Anyway, at the same time he sees what
it is Funnell has hooked, and what has
hooked Funnell. For Funnell is lyin’
there spreadeagled on his back, like a
man crucified ; bound round the legs with
the line, and with somethin’ movin’ like
a wave underneath him. It’s an enormous
thing and it’s movin’ slow, and it looks
black in the light under the water.
“Well, it’s one of those great sting-rays
they get here. He can see its eyes stuck
out on top of its head, and two holes
like twin caves under thim. Doctor,
we’d get the shivers at it, but Jim
Garnett’s been fishin’ too long there with
Cashman to be worried about it —in the
ordinary carse of things, anyway—
except for its great whip of a tail; and
he’s seein’ now with his light that that
black thing can’t be hurtin’ him.
“No ; for both of thim, the fish and the
body, is hooked there together each of
thim, fore and aft. There’s the hook in
the ray’s mouth, and the- line wound
round and round it, and wound round
Funnell in a tangle, where he must have
got mixed up in it somehow and
fell in ; and he was close to landin’ it,
too, when he done it. He was right on
him ; and he must have had plenty of fun
getting that close to him ; and be the
same token he must have been pretty
strong, too, coroner’s sayso or otherwise.
‘ 4 AND that,” said Dinny, “is how
they’re tied together at one end ;
and there’s an odd thing in this that
Funnell hadn’t counted on. It’s the way
things happen, you know. Yes, it took
the second war we had to bring that about
for him. Because, mark this, if there was
no second war, with the Japs fightin’
against us, there’d have still been those
light Jap gut lines that that crature of a
fish would have broke in a twinkling.
“Have you tried to brake one of those
thin nylon lines they get now from
England, Doctor? No? Well, you try
it. It’ll cut through your hand first; and
yet you’d say by the thinness of it it was
just a light thing for catchin’ whiting.
Yes, the heaviest kind they make, which
is the sort this Funnell had got himself,
thinkin’ it was just the sort he was used
to —the greatest mistake ever he made in
his life.
“Yes, and there’s another queer thing,
too,” Dinny added. “Fve seen these big
stingrays they get here, I‘m tellin’ you.
Doctor. They’re the incarnation of Evil;
and there’s this one, as Jim Garnett saw
it, carryin’ what was left of Funnell on its
back, and he’s facin’ upwards towards the
sky—yes, and that great long barb half-
way up its black tail is pinned clean
through the palm of his other hand.”
Dinny paused to take up the bottle
before adding: “Garnett saw the thing
there like that in the water. ‘Yes,’ he told
me he said, ‘Yes, it’s your left hand, too,
he’s got you by! The Devil take you!’
he screams out; and he took the light off
them, and let the boat drift back, and left
them there.
“Well, now, thank Hiwen there’s one
good one left for each of us,” Dinny
concluded. “Here, help yourself, Doctor,
while I see to the dinner.”
“I’ll certainly do justice to it,” declared
the Doctor, getting up from the bunk, a
shade unsteadily. “One for each of us ...
Hi the dithery al the dee! ”
“The dal the dal the dithery al,” Dinny
chimed in, pouring all that was left into
his glass and letting it flow down his
throat.
“Done to a turn now,” he proclaimed
of the dinner, lifting his boiling-pot from
the hook.
On the two enamel plates he equally
divided the entire contents of the pot; two
projectile-like grey corncobs at which the
Doctor stared in astonishment, before
rage overcame him.
“Muttai!” bellowed the Doctor.
“Muttai! Have I been waiting here while
you drank my whisky for a lousy cob of
boiled muttai?”
“And what’s wrong with that now?”
Dinny shouted back, grinning cheerfully.
“Muttai!” repeated the Doctor, rage
completely overcoming him. “The Devil
take you and your muttai as he took
your friend Funnell! ”
“He was no friend of mine!” Dinny
declared hotly.
“The Devil take all muttai, anyway!”,
said the Doctor; in an easier tone.
“That’s right now,” said Dinny, pacify-,
ing. “It’s not all that likes muttai, of
carse, but it just so happens it’s all I
have till the butcher comes this after-
noon.” Then, without further apology,
he broke forth; /
“Hi the dithery al the dal,
Dal the dal the dithery al.
Dal the dal dal the dal,
Dithery al the dee!”
The tune mollified the Doctor. It also
unsobered him a little again. He picked
up his broken suitcase and canvas-bag
and staggered out through the door,
Dinny following, biting off mouthfuls of
com and blowing them through his
whiskers like a rain of hail.
“That’s the wrong way to Cashman’s
now, Doctor!” he called out from the
door,
“I know it is!” the Doctor paused,
swaying. “I’ve changed my mind. If
there’s anything I can’t stand next to
muttai it’s a‘man that swears like your
friend Cashman.”
“He nivver stops sweatin’,” shouted
Dinny; adding to the grass at his feet:
“And he’s no great friend of mine, any-
way. I’m sure of it, the blaspheming
wowser he is—it’d be that sneakin’ Cash-
man and ho other burned our beautiful
pub down, wouldn’t it now?”
The Inward Eremite.
I am battered with clamor from hunter
and quarry,
Hallooing right or howling at wrong.
The hunt is up! Both Right and Left
Demand I dissolve in their running
throng.
Yet lone as a hawk at noon I came
Out of wild pain to my first light;
I shall still be alone, an aristocrat,
When I go down to my last deep night.
Though I merge with my love in
imperious fire,
I see, beyond our momentary zone.
The inward eremite in man,
Who moves eternally alone.
Lost men are whirled in suffering's vortex,
And their fear stares up at our
narrowed skies;
I look on my comrades of common doom
With pity at heart, tears in my eyes.
But still no other's blood can channel
The griefs that through my own blood
pour,
As my joys,, though apple-sweet in the
mouth.
Are secret at each unsharable core.
He is false to the eremite who runs
With terrors and hates in sweating crew,
Betraying the integral hawk in the soul
Elected by life to besiege the blue.
Shouldering the clamor, I find at the
centre
Beauty's imperturbable form.
As the torn winds of silence'retain
A kernelled peace in the hollow storm.
As the hunt's cries fade in the distance
Of years, all angers shall crumple and
die
Like leaves, while beauty renews her grace
On the symbolled 'earth and the
tokening sky.
On your silent guard, O spirit, hold
Inviolable freedoms anciently won ;
Dare to be lone as the wind on the
mountains,
Lone as the singular fire of the sun.
A.C.T.
T. Inglis Moore.


BUILDING LINES
RIGID QUALITY... FIRE SAFETY... MAX.. ........
■ "
KII I I II lIM l« I THAT MEET TODAYS SPECIFICATIONS FOR
RIGID QUALITY... FIRE SAFETY... MAXIMUM SECURITY
if
\hotWs '
“WATERLOO” STEEL ROLLER SHUTTERS
For cart docks, garages or any openings. Space-saving,
thief-resistant, easy to operate, strong and durable.
ROLLING GRILLES
To close an opening without sacrificing passage of air
or obstructing vision.
“WATERLOO” TIN-CLAD DOORS
For fire cut-off purposes between buildings and built to
Fire Underwriters’ specifications.
"WATERLOO” STEEL
ROLLER SHUTTERS
■a
asa
□□
BBS
BBS
S°°S7/\
WORMALD BROTHERS
"OVERHEAD DOOR”
jpl
"ESAVIAN” DOOR AND
WINDOW FITTINGS
“METALBILT” FIRE-RESISTING DOORS
Approved by authorities for use on stair enclosures and
lift-wells.
“BANGOR” SLIDING-DOOR TRACK
A type for every class of sliding door. Stocked by leading
hardware stores everywhere.
“ESAVLAN” DOOR AND WINDOW FITTINGS
Concertina closing action. Strong and weatherproof.
WORMALD BROTHERS’ “OVERHEAD DOOR”
Latest type of sliding door. Suspended on springs, these
wooden doors slide up and back along the ceiling.
“BANGOR” SLIDING
DOOR TRACK
'WATERLOO” TIN
CLAD DOORS
“METALBILT” FIRE
RESISTING DOORS
ROLLING
GRILLES
WORMALD BROTHERS
P T y • LT D
Fire Protection Engineers since 1889
BTDNBT, NEWCASTLE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE. PERTH, HOBART
WELLINGTON, AUCKLAND, CHRISTCHURCH, DUNEDIN
Missing Friend.
•fN the supreme court of
VICTORIA — Divorce and Matrimonial
Causes Jurisdiction No. 319 of W
BETWEEN ERNA JOAN ROBERTSON
Petitioner and lAN ROBERTSON Re-
spondent. ROBERTSON {ormer ly of 61
Hawke Street West Melbourne but now
of parts unknown. —TAKE NOTICE th
your wife ERNA JOAN ROBERTSON has
instituted proceedings against you 1
divorce on the ground of desertion un
less you enter an appearance in the rro
thonotary’s Office in the Supreme Court
of Melbourne on or before the Tenth a
of May 1919 AND UNLESS you file “
answer in the said office on or before tne
Twentieth day of May 1949 the case ml
proceed in your absence.—lßVlNua-
PLOTKIN, LL.B., Solicitor for the ret
tioner, 379 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Public Notice.
I, JOSEPHINE ZIVIANI, of TtSjan
nationality, born at Paris, FjanM. and
resident 23 years in Aurtraha
siding at Mimosa Road, Bankst ° ’
N.S.W., intend to apply for naturahsa
tion under the Nationality and Citizen
ship Act, 1948.
SUNDRY SHOWS
HAROLD BLAIR.
At the first of Harold Blair’s
two Sydney Town Hall recitals
the aboriginal tenor, who has a
pleasing concert-platform ap-
pearance and personality,
plunged, and with justifiable
confidence, into the treacherous
waters of oratorio. The variety
of vocal snags inherent in the
recitative and air “In Native
Worth,” ffom Haydn’s “Crea-
tion,” obviously held no terrors
for him. The transition from
chest- to head-register needed no
obvious gear-changing, and his
legato singing was smooth as
velvet.
“Total Eclipse,” from Handel’s
“Samson,” was sturdily rendered,
though when the florid passages
took him down towards the bari-
tone range a weakness of carry-
ing-power was apparent. Some
good declamatory passages and
ringing head notes marked his
rendition of “How Vain Is
Man,” from “Judas Macca-
bseus.”
It was in the operatic group,
however, that his advance in
technique was most apparent.
Blair was able to infuse the right
degree of lilting lightness into
“II Mio Tesoro,” from “Don
Giovanni.” The sustained high
passages of the Nessun Dorma,
from Turandot, found the voice
still unsagging at the end of its
punishing phrases.
Associate artist was Beatrice
Tange, who played some Brahms
and Schumann with taste and a
lively appreciation of the roman-
tic spirit which pervaded them.
In Dohnanyi’s Capriccio in F
Minor Miss Tange employed a
digital dexterity which was
equalled only by the clarity of
her reading. Liesel Jorg was an
alert and unobtrusive accom-
panist to the singer.
Vera Bradford.
When the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra started off its Satur-
day-night concert early compe-
tition came from a bagpipe in
the lower Town Hall. However,
the conductor, John Farnsworth
Hall, was quite unperturbed.
And why should he have been
perturbed with Berlioz’s “Cor-
sair” as his opening overture?
Against the brass passages any
lone bagpiper would blow his
front teeth out in a vain en-
deavor to outplay that score.
And so it proved. Just as the
work blared to its close there
came from the nether regions
what might have been either
despairing Caledonian sobs or
sounds made by the demented
piper sucking instead of blow-
ing.
Whatever the sound, the
pipes were heard no more, and
there were heard in peace Proko-
fiev’s Classical Symphony; that
curiously uneven though interest-
ing work, Kodaly’s “Hary
Janos” suite, and the Beethoven
Fourth Concerto, in which Vera
Bradford was soloist.
The Melbourne pianist
started proceedings by stating the
first subject authoritatively but
without pomposity. A good bal-
ance was held between strings
and keyboard until the long
cadenza, out of which Miss
Bradford squeezed the last drop
of virtuosity. The responses of
the solo instrument to the im-
portunities of the orchestra in
the andante had sedateness
rather than resignation, but the
pianist invested the final rondo
with fire, weaving a brilliant
thread of pianistic elaboration
through the solid orchestral tex-
ture.
The whole effect was to lend
it an air of infectious good-
humor —which, after all, is what
a Beethoven rondo is meant to
do. A well-balanced programme
wound up with the bright coldrs
of Rimsky-Korsakoff’s “Russian
Easter Festival.”
More from the Centre.
Watercolors by Rex Battarbee,
the Victorian artist who taught
the aboriginal Namatjira and
who now lives in the Centre,
painting with Namatjira and
Otto Pareroultja, are showing at
Anthony Hordern’s, Sydney.
It may be bad luck for Battar-
bee that his aboriginal pupils
have shown their works in Syd-
ney before him, for he loses
thereby some of the “news
value” of painting such out-
landish places as the Macdonnell
Ranges and the Finke River. The
white ghost-gums, the red gorges
and the blue ranges are becom-
ing familiar artistic counters.
But, making due allowance
for that, there remains a distinct
impression that Namatjira,
given his technique by Battar-
bee, has become the more ac-
complished technician of the two
and has the keener vision. Where
Namatjira’s watercolors look
crisp and modern in treatment,
Battarbee’s often have the old-
fashioned appearance that comes
from a disregard for light-values
and a blobby method of hand-
ling foliage. He presents the
contours of the Centre faithfully
enough, but one misses the blaz-
ing heat and jewelled colors that
bring Namatjira’s works to life.
It is significant that the paint-
ings which go beyond a topo-
graphical record and strike home
dramatically as works of art are
those in which the painter has
concentrated on some vivid ob-
ject in the foreground and has
more or less dispensed with the
difficulties of distance; notably
an elephantine “Bottle Tree,” a
lovely “Scarred River Gum” and
an “Ancient Ghost Gum” which
looks oddly like the dancing
spectre of a hatter.
Yassilieff.
Danila Vassilieff, the Warren-
dyte artist who has made him-
self the pictorial historian of
Fitzroy, has more of his slum
houses and slum children in his
latest exhibition at the Velas-
quez, Melbourne. Inasmuch as
he tries consciously to be child-
like, his shapes, or shapeless-
nesses, aren’t as offensive as the
slum paintings of the factual
school of artists.
Vassilieff’s resolute desire to
stick to an innocence of outlook
is carried on to his sculpture,
carved in limestone (Australian
marble) from the Lilydale
quarries opened by Melba’s
grandfather. It is five times as
hard as granite, and uses up
tools in that ratio, so the labor
that has gone into “Seated
Figure” and “Important Person”
must have been tremendous.
The stone takes a lovely
polish, and Mr. Vassilieff has
given it that. His prices seem
to be based on time spent on this
labor of love, which is evidently
love of the material itself and
not of the thing represented—
the sculpture when finished
doesn’t seem very muph different
from when started. A table
covered with what look like gib-
bers is titled “Sculpture to Pick
Up,” and turns out to be more
of Mr. Vassilieff’s carvings. It
might almost have been picked
up in any quarry.
Elizabeth Vassilieff, pupil and
wife of the artist, has a wall full
of colored drawings with titles
like “Lady with Turtle,” “Lady
Falling into Sea,” “Landscape
with Chinese Army,” “Coffee
with Father,” Her work is
tighter and more tired-looking
than her husband’s.
* * * ♦
John A. Gardiner, who, with
Rex Battarbee, 15 years ago led
the army of Melbourne artists
which has since penetrated to
the Centre, is holding an exten-
sive show at the Athenaeum,
Melbourne. Battarbee stayed to
start a school of abo. artists, but
Gardiner deserted the Never-
Never to farm in the Western
District. A number of the pic-
tures still have the Mac Donnell
Ranges, the ghost-gums and the
weird light of the north for their
subject-matter, but they are more
sophisticated and polished. The
artist has acquired more tech-
nique without more penetration,
and his work looks factual and
unatmospheric.
Current Talkies.
“Red River” (Sydney Plaza):
A western, and a good one,
about the shifting of 10,000 head
of cattle from southern Texas
to a distant railhead. John
Wayne is the rancher who settles
near the Rio Gr nde with one
cow and one bull and sweats out
15. years building a herd only to
be confronted with the problem
of finding a market for it;
Montgomery Clift is his adopted
son who finally rebels against the
older man’s ruthlessness and
takes over the drive himself.
There’s a considerable amount
of fighting and lightning, deadly-
accurate gunplay, all of which
fits in credibly enough with the
dust and sweat and strained
tempers in the long, forced drive.
Direction is excellent, as is the
acting of Wayne, Clift and a
good string of supporting
players including Walter Bren-
nan, Noah Beery, Jr., and Harry
Carey.
* * * *
“A Letter to Three Wives”
(Sydney Century) : Light
comedy-romance with more to it
than most of its kind. On the
afternoon of a river picnic three
young matrons receive a letter
addressed to them jointly from
one Addie Ross stating that she
is running off with one of their
husbands. As the three hus-
bands are all away on business
or something similar the three
wives spend the rest of the day
considering their chances. Their
retrospections, which make up
the bulk of the film, include a
wonderful attack on commercial
radio programmes; a cleverly-
written and well - acted
“romance” between Linda
Darnell and Paul Douglas as a
wench from the wrong side of
the tracks and a business tycoon
respectively; and a comedy
situation in a house by a railroad
that is worth price of admission
on its own.
* • ♦ *
“My Hero” (Sydney St.
James):
“Hullo, this is Northern Re-
hab., calling Confederate Re-
hab.”
“Yes, this is Confederate Re-
hab., sir.”
“Have you a spy there by the
name of Red Skelton? We sent
him down just before Gettys-
burg.”
“Ah, yes, sir, funniest man
we’ve seen here. We found him
making juleps with parsley.
You-all want him back?”
“No! We thought you might
have shot him.”
“You better take him back,
sir.”
“No!”
“Ah ask you as a Southern
gentleman, sir, fer the last time
—is you-all gonna take him
back?”
“Never what were those
shots?”
“Firing-squad, sir—we-all been
shooting ourselves in batches
of twenty ever since Mr.
Skelton’s been with us. We think
it’s better that way. Dying of
laughter is not our idee of an
honorable end for Southern
gentlemen, sir,”
* ♦ * •
“Black Diamond” (Sydney
Variety): A French job, and not
up to expectations, about a
businessman who, after his wife
is killed in a car accident, finds
among her possessions some let-
ters which seem to indicate her
unfaithfulness. After 15 years
of self-torture he discovers that
the letters had belonged to some-
one else. The acting is good and
the settings and photography are
excellent, but the film has —un-
usually for French direction—a
heaviness that runs it into melo-
drama.
* * * *
In “I Stand Accused” (Sydney
State) Judge Frederick March,
who accuses himself of mercy-
killing his painfully-ill wife,
should have been convicted of
bad law, extenuated by good
acting and sentenced to a better
play.
♦ * ♦ *
Sonja Henie still skates well
and acts as though someone
might accuse her of acting in
“The Countess of Monte Cristo”
(support at Sydney State). Some
of the comedy of the two bar-
maids who impose as countess
and maid at the big pub comes
freshly off the ice, thanks largely
to Olga St. Juan.
* * * *
“Miss Tatlock’s Millions”
(Sydney Prince Edward): An
occasionally funny piece about
an impersonation and an in-
heritance with Monty Woolley,
Barry Fitzgerald, John Lund and
Wanda Hendrix.
* * * *
“The Fighting O’Flynn”
(Sydney Victory): Douglas Fair-
banks leaping and prancing over
half of Ireland to defeat a
French invasion.


ds
“I think I’d like
a White Horse
better than anything”
pwra
E 3
WHITE HORSE WHISKY
Equal to a fine liqueur.
WH.I
AUSTRALIAN JOCKEY CLUB
AUTUMN MEETING, 1949
To be held on RANDWICK RACECOURSE,
16th, 18th, 20th and 23rd APRIL.
PRINCIPAL EVENTS
Ist DAY, SATURDAY, 16th APRIL.
THE DONCASTER HANDICAP: £6OOO added, ONE MILE.
The A.J.C, Sires’ Produce Stakes: £5OOO added.
_ _ SEVEN FURLONGS.,
The A.J.C. St. Leger. £3OOO added.
ONE MILE AND THREE-QUARTERS.
2nd DAY, MONDAY, 18th APRIL.
THE SYDNEY CUP: £lO.OOO added. TWO MILES.
(And Gold Cup valued at £500.)
3rd DAY, WEDNESDAY, 20th APRIL.
The All-Aged Stakes: £2OOO added. ONE MILE.
The Champagne Stakes: £2500 added. SIX FURLONGS.
The Cumberland Stakes: £2OOO added.
ONE MILE AND THREE-QUARTERS.
4th DAY, SATURDAY, 23rd APRIL.
The Adrian Knox Stakes: £2500 added.
A ir' d, „ ONE MILE AND A QUARTER.
The A.J.C. Plate; £2OOO added.
TWO MILES AND A QUARTER.
T. NICHOLSON,
Racing Secretary.
W. N. PARRY-OKEDEN,
Secretary.
OFFICE: 6 Bligh Street, SYDNEY.
Ancestors of
an Industry
V,
,1
SIY Henry E, Roscoe was the first chemist
to isolate vanadium, a metal usd'd for toughening
steel. This discovery has been of great importance
in manufacturing the hard steels needed to make
tools and the springs and axles of railway engines
and motor cars. Small quantities of vanadium are
also used in dyeing, and in producing paints and
medicines. Roscoe was also one of the first to
realise the importance of popularizing science, and
in 1862 organised a series of "Science Lectures for
the People.” Delivered by himself and other lead-
ing scientists, they were a huge success, and, in
printed form, had a world-wide circulation.
Roscoe was born in London in 1833, but his family
moved to Liverpool when he was nine years old,
and he spent almost his whole life in the North.
He returned to London to take his honours degree
in chemistry, and for a short time studied abroad.
At the early age of 24 he was appointed Professor
of Chemistry at Owens College, Manchester. Like
so many other scientists of his day, Roscoe took
an active part in public life. He was knighted in
1884, and represented South Manchester in the
House of Commons from 1885 to 1895. He died
in 1915, leaving behind him a record
of great practical achievement, and a
number of chemical textbooks which
have been translated into almost
every important language of Europe
and the Orient
ICI
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
IL/75/I6
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Connections being evidently satis-
fied with their progress, most of the
more-fancied Doncaster candidates
were allowed to give Saturday’s
Warwick Farm meeting at Randwick
a miss. Bernbrook, Columnist, Fili-
pino, Vagabond, Comedy Prince and
Karachi being among those not
present it might be wise to refrain
from joining in the jubilant confidence
expressed by the stable over the suc-
cess of Beau Robert (N. Sell wood)
in the seven-furlongs Liverpool Han-
dicap, which was contested by a
number of the less-highly-regarded
Doncaster “possibles,” together with
several other animals that would
hardly qualify for even that optimistic
category.
Beau Robert won in moderately
good fashion; it was the five-year-
old Beau Vite gelding’s first success
m open company. He won by a
half-head from Homeleigh Dick who,
finishing brilliantly, was in front a
stride past the post. A half-head
further back, Mentmore was third,
followed by Heroic Sovereign.
■ . . .
Every horse that goes to the barrier
in a big handicap like the Doncaster
must be conceded some chance of
winning, but to try to narrow the
field down a trifle, Columnist, Fili-
pino, Bernbrook, Vagabond and
Karachi appear on public form to
have the brightest prospects, albeit
intentions regarding Karachi were
somewhat in the air at time of writ-
ing ; he was reported to have slightly
injured himself. Taking the con-
siderable liberty of restricting the
possibilities to the bunch mentioned,
the question seems to be, can the
older horses concede a good deal of
weight to the brilliant three-year-olds
Bernbrook and Vagabond; and
which, if any, of the oldsters is best
capable of doing so?
Aside from any question of the
quality of the opposition, Columnist
faces a terrific job in trying to win
with a plaster of 9.10. Very few
horses have won Doncasters with that
sort of weight. In three successive
years, 1933, ’34 and ’35, Winooka
won with 9.13, Chatham with 10.4
and Hall Mark (surviving a protest)
with 9.8. Then one has to go back
to 1892 to find Marvel winning with
10.4; in the 40-years interim only
three winners carried 9st. or over.
Columnist’s last attempt at one of
the major mile handicaps was when,
with 8.10, he started favorite for the
1947 Epsom and ran third to Titanic
and Monogram, both of whom, in-
cidentally, ran unplaced in Saturday’s
Cabramatta Highweight. Columnist’s
performances this season do not sug-
gest that he is as good a horse as
he was then, let alone that he has
improved sufficiently to beat a better
field with a stone greater weight.
Originally handicapped at 9.6,
Filipino was bumped up to 9.8 for
his Alister Clark Stakes success, a
fair compliment, though one which
connections would prefer to have
been left unspoken. Filipino, too,
has missed out in an Epsom, being
beaten a half-head by De La Salle
last year; since then he has improved
a ton. The weight, however justified,
may stop Filipino, but he does seem
an ideal Doncaster horse—a really
solid, hard horse. Karachi, too, is a
very hard horse, and with 8.11 meets
the three-year-olds, both of whom
have 8.4, on considerably better
terms than other of the proven
older horses. However, weight is a
minor consideration with Karachi —
he’s big enough to carry anything
and has won a mile Highweight at
Randwick with 10.6 —but, as a
middle-distance winner, and runner-up
in the Metrop., one wonders if he
has quite the brilliance to beat a
hot field at a mile. Still, if he goes
to the post, Karachi shouldn’t be far
away at the finish.
Having proved themselves against
the older horses, Bernbrook and
Vagabond are exceptionally well in
the Doncaster with 8.4; and they rep-
resent the cream of an outstandingly
good crop. In assessing both at 8.4,
the handicapper, whose opinion is
always to be respected, expressed the
higher opinion of Vagabond. When
weights were issued Vagabond was a
maiden performer, while Bernbrook
already had won an open-company
handicap at Randwick and had
beaten at weight-for-age a field which
included Carbon Copy, Dark Marne,
Columnist, Riptide and Vagabond.
It would seem, then, that of Don-
caster runners, Vagabond and Filipino
have been most strongly recommended
by the handicapper. An advantage
of 161 b. in the weights must swing
the balance very much Vagabond’s
way, if the Doncaster is his major
mission. At time of writing he was
considered a likely runner in both
Doncaster and Sydney Cup, and he
must be conceded a great show in
whichever is his mark; with such a
difference in the distances it seems
likely that Vagabond has been pre-
pared with either one race or the
other definitely in mind —scarcely
both. His record labels hiig a likely
stayer, and the two-mile Cup of
£lO,OOO plus £5OO trophy would be a
handsome race to win.
Other likely Sydney Cup candi-
dates on Saturday contested the
w.f.a. Chipping Norton Stakes (lOf.)
and the Warwick Autumn Handicap
(12f.). The Chipping Norton pro-
vided a fine race, with Carbon Copy,
despite running wide at the turn and
greenly in the straight, fairly com-
fortably defeating De La Salle; the
New Zealand galloper Bruce was
third. The Warwick Autumn Handi-
cap saw Transaction (N. Sellwood)
turn in a solidly good performance to
beat the three-year-olds Benvolo and
Dynamite.
The Sydney Cup, which this page
has to discuss without benefit of the
guidance likely to be offered by next
Saturday’s racing, poses a similar
problem to the Doncaster can
proved older horses give a grand
bunch of three-year-olds a lot of
weight and a beating at two miles?
While there are only two of the
youngsters with really strong recom-
mendations for the Doncaster, the
Cup" field includes Comic Court,
Carbon Copy, Vagabond, Dynamite
and Benvolo. Russia with 9.10, and
Sydney Cup-winner Dark Marne with
9.6, will be hard pressed to beat that
lot, all carrying 8.8 or less. De La
Salle, of course, with 8.11, is strongly
fancied, but the mile may have been
a better race for her.
Russia and Dark Marne deserve
every respect, but the odds seem
against them. Of the youngsters,
Comic Court, Carbon Copy and
Vagabond have the best recommenda-
tions. Vagabond is, as mentioned,
the mystery of the piece—an unknown
quantity of unknown intentions when
this page went to the printer. As
to the other pair, present observer
would incline to place them about
level at 11 or 12 furlongs, favor
Carbon Copy over a shorter trip and
Comic Court at a longer test. Roth
contested the last Melbourne Cup
and Comic Court’s good fourth was
much the better performance.
So, to take a stab at the double,
this page would fancy Filipino and
Comic Court, with Vagabond the
potential menace to either leg and
three-year-olds sure to take a hand
in both.
Of other winners at Randwick the
most important were Field Boy (W.
Briscoe) taking the first Fairfield
Handicap for two-year-olds and Free-
dom (J. Thompson) bagging the 10-
furlongs Cobbity Handicap for three-
year-olds. A noticeable feature of
Sydney racing this season has been
the absence of any dominating two-
year-old such as Riptide, Temeraire,
Magnificent and others in recent
years. However, Field Boy and the
filly Vicereine may provide worth-
while opposition in the Champagne
and Sires’ Produce Stakes for the
Melbourne contingent led by Lady
Pirouette. Field Boy carried a good
horse’s weight with 9.1 on Saturday
and won impressively. The Cobbitty-
winner Freedom is a son of Burhan
Ali and impresses as likely to win a
good race or two before he’s done
with the game.
* * * *
Results at Caulfield on Saturday
fell somewhat short of justifying the
cheerful optimism with which all
punters venture forth for an after-
noon at the “neddies.” The first
three winners started at 14 to 1, 14
to 1 and 16 to I respectively, and
subsequently the bookies rejoiced in
the success of a 50-to-l touch.
The two-miles St. Kilda Handicap
saw the Sydney galloper Bolivia
show his first sign of justifying the
confidence reposed in him by present
writer for the Australian Cup—now
unfortunately run and done with.
Even so, Bolivia failed to win, the
race being very effectively stolen by
apprentice B. Jenkins on the 16-to-l
chance Bruin. Young Jenkins rode
a grand race, shooting Bruin
away to gain a lead of some 20
lengths early in the piece, then giving
his mount a good healthy breather
as others fought their way up to him.
Only Bolivia, a naturally late finisher,
had anything in reserve at the end,
and he was rapidly, but too late,
overhauling Bruin nearing the post.
Another excellent bit of cool riding
was that displayed by R. Hall on
Jevingion in the Gordon Steeple.
Shortly after the start the saddle
slipped and Hall rode the greater
part of the two-mile journey over
fences bare-back to land his mount
a clear winner from Henwood and
Kingly.
Considering that England is the
home of the thoroughbred horse,
racing prizemoney there, apart from
a few major races, is surprisingly
poor. With all due allowance for
the difference between financial con-
ditions of the mid-thirties and those
prevailing today, the thought was
brought to mind when taking a glance
at the racing and stud records of
the imported stallion Kinderscout,
progeny of whom won both divisions
of Saturday’s Maiden Two-year-old at
Caulfield. Divisions of the Maiden —
a poor-class race at an off-season
meeting—were worth £5OO each to
the respective winners Kintail (T.
Unkovich) and On Time (D. Barclay).
Racing in England as a two-, three-,
four- and five-year-old, Kinderscout
himself won nine races, was eight
times placed second and four times
third for a total prizemoney of
£2596.
Although at that stage of the pro-
gramme they didn’t need much assist-
ance, bookmakers had their most
thorough skinner of the day when
the three : year-old Royal Chief colt
Regal Chief (G. Bougoure) scored a
narrow win from Belle Star and Astor
in the first Brighton Welter. Most
bookies had the winner at 50 to 1;
he paid over 100 to 1 on the tote —
£25 10s. 6d. for a win and £5 Iss.
for a place. The result of the second
Brighton Welter was much more
palatable for punters, favorite High
Tar (R. Heather) winning from Grand
Gift and Star of India. The nine-
furlongs Narong Trial went to Henley
(R. Heather) at 14 to 1.
* * * *
For Randwick (before accept-
ances) :
Vaucluse Handicap: Mortar, 1;
Indarra, 2; Caribbean, 3. Sires’
Produce Stakes: Vicereine, 1; Lady
Pirouette, 2; Field Boy, 3. Autumn
Stakes: Dark Marne, 1; De La Salle,
2; Russia, 3. Doncaster: Filipino,
1; Vagabond, 2; Bernbrook, 3. St.
Leger: Comic Court, 1; Carbon
Copy, 2; Freedom, 3, Princess Han-
dicap: Grey Nurse, 1; Persist, 2;
lolanda, 3. Tocal Handicap: Mono-
gram, 1; Le Frere, 2; Sir Raven, 3.
* * ♦ *
Playing the same methodical golf,
improving round by round as he did
in the £2500 McWilliams tournament,
the irrepressible Von Nida had little
trouble in bagging the £5OO “Adver-
tiser” tournament played at Kooyong,
Adelaide. Successive rounds of 72,
72, 71 and 69 gave the Von a total
of 284 (par). Eric Cremin of N.S.W.
did next best with 73, 70, 72, 73
for a total of 288.
* * * *
Rowed on the Lane Cove, Sydney,
on Saturday, the Riverview Gold Cup
race for senior eights was once again
won by a Haberfield crew. Six of
the eight G.P.S. crews contested the
race, but only Shore reached the final,
where they were decisively beaten
into third place by Wesley College.
Shore and the title-holders, Sydney
High (High did not compete on Satur-
day) should once again fight out the
finish of the Head of the River race
due to be rowed at Penrith (N.S.W.)
on April 23.
* * * *
With the Australian XI to South
Africa, Alan Walker and Bill John-
ston will carry on the traditions built
up by many past notable Australian
bowlers of the molly-dook persua-
sion. Jack Ferris was the great
pioneer; in trips to England he
gathered 220 wickets at an average
of 14.10 in 1888 and 215 (av. 13.20)
in 1890. In those efforts Ferris sent
down 3967 overs—a performance old-
timers look back upon with reverence.
Carrying on the tradition since then
have been Charlie Macartney, Jack
Saunders, Bill Whitty, Bert Iron-
monger and Fleatwood-Smith.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
In his first scrap in London Aus-
tralian pug Dave Sands bumped a
tough, clever and highly-rated Ameri-
can in Tommy Yarosz, and Dave
discovered, as others had done before
him, that there is no future in the
business of giving weight to a far-
more-experienced opponent. Sands
survived to lose a clear-cut points
decision.
After the match Sands’s manager
magnanimously declared that Dave
had gone down to a better man.
Jack Solomons, promoter of the
over-boomed fiasco, couldn’t get into
print fast enough to correct this awful
faux pas. With tears fair welling
in his eyes he declared that it was
all his fault; that he knew Sands
was hampered by a swollen arm;
that he didn’t want news of this to
leak out for fear that it would have
affected the “gate.” That sort of
thing would make any self-respecting
pachyderm blush for its reputation.
* * * *
Fresh from a k.0.-victory over
Billy Lord at Sydney Stadium,
Mickey McDonald (9st.) outfought
Nipper O’Brien (9.8£) at Leichhardt,
and was well ahead on points when
the O’Brien succumbed to an invisible
punch in the 12th round. Shortly
after the last round commenced a
right swing floored O’Brien; he arose
before referee Art Mawson started
counting, realised the folly of such
tactics and promptly hit the deck
again. Mawson had no option but
to disqualify him.


Special Offer/
GEM
RAZOR
WITH
Double Life
GEM Blades
COMPLETE
3*
WITH 2 BLADES
IN NEAT PLASTIC
: CASE i
m
ss?
IT'S THE WEIGHT BEHIND THE EDGE THAT
, GIVES SMOOTHER, EASIER SHAVES
m
w
\
/
Lc\h
#^ s
-
ran round the little school,
A cough, and then three more;
The Master climbed down
off this stool,
And in a glass did pour
Some wondrous drops of magic balm
To make each child secure
From cough and cold that wintry day.
With Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
Don’t keep sneezing get
Woods 9 Great Peppermint Core
She was to have been an
EASTER BRIDE
j
So*.
i
t
m
V
"
iiiiiiiiii
THEY were an ideal couple : young, eager, full of the joy of living. And
they were happy. But not for long ... the legacy of grief they left will
remain for years in the aching hearts of two families. One moment of
recklessness, one chance taken at high speed on a dangerous corner, and
two young lives were lost for ever.
Your life is too high a price to pay for speed. Be wise. Be careful and
be here tomorrow. Death gives no second chance.
DEATH IS SO PERMANENT ..
ISSUED BY'THE AUSTRALIAN ROAD SAFETY COUNCIL
'(Administered by the Commonwealth Department of Transport)
R5V27.83.29
Be Smart!
If you suffer from
coated tongue, pimply or
blotchy skin, headache,
biliousness or nausea
due to constipation,
wake up your sluggish
bowels with Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills. This
time - tested remedy
flushes and cleanses
the intestinal tract
thoroughly, without
griping or unpleasant
after-effects. Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills con-
tain only vegetable
ingredients; no harsh
drugs or irritants. They
make you look and feel
better and brighter.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jMXSOti
qSIIUJA6V\
Ftrtm
MtfP
TRADE MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating 1
Watson, Ferguson & Co,
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
BEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS Jc OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS. BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“IACKSUL,” BRISBANE
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Frogs—all kinds and sizes, from
West Australian country areas—by
scientist studying their distribution
and life-histories. Write first to
Mrs. M. E. Finch, Zoology Dept.,
University of Western Australia, Ned-
lands (W.A.).
To buy copy of “Picture Post,”
published London, with cover photo-
graph of spaniel called “Paddy.”—
4613.
Words and music of song “I Love
a Lassie.”—4612.
To buy copy of Himalayan Honey-
moon by Bip Pares. —4611.
To buy copy of Clung by Max
Brand. —4610.
Information Sought.
How to propagate gardenia cut-
tings ?
Select pieces of well-ripened stems
about 4in. long and place in boxes
with drainage holes containing sandy
loam. Stand containers off the
ground to guard against soil pests.
After firming cuttings in the soil
cover the surface with a dressing of
sand. Layering low-growing branches
(breaking the limb at the intersec-
tion of the. soil) into ground, boxes
or pots placed on stands often gives
better results. When the sections are
rooted and well grown sever them
from the main plant. Place cuttings
in a hot bed or in a warm position
in a box and cover with glass. When
the green shoots are well grown
gradually lift the glass to harden
them off.
* * ♦ *
(1) Award rates for librarians or
library-assistants in public libraries
operated by municipal or shire coun-
cils under the N.S.W. Library Act ?
(2) Names and addresses of firms that
bind or rebind books for public
libraries ?
(1) There is no such award.
Library-assiStants up to the age of
21 are paid by councils the award
rate for clerical officers at the appro-
priate age, but there is no award or
agreement which covers librarians
over 21. Steps are being taken by
the N.S.W. Municipal Employees’
Union to have an award made to
cover these officers. (2) Mr. Leo
Cullen, 123 Sussex-street, Sydney,
and Bookcraft Bookbinding Co., 18
Georgina-street, Newtown (N.S.W.).
* Hi ♦ >it
Can Epsom salts be used as a
blood-purifier ?
Epsom salts (dosage half to one tea-
spoon in water) are an aperient. As a
blood-purifier the frequent small dose
is advised; approximately a pinch
with each cup of tea at mealtime.
Simple skin faults, pimples, etc., re-
spond to this treatment. A useful
combination is loz. Epsom salts dis-
solved in 1 pint lime water. Adult
dose of the mixture is one or two
tablespoons in half a tumbler of
water first thing each morning.
♦ * * *
Particulars of 1949 poetry competi-
tion being conducted by the Queens-
land Authors and Artists’ Association ?
Two prizes are offered, one of
£5 ss. for seniors and another of
£2 2s. for those under 17 years of
age on December 31* 1949. Subject
is a lyrical poem. Entries must be
the original work of the entrant.
Copyright will remain the property of
the writer. A fee of 6d. must be
submitted for each entry in the Senior
section. There is no entry fee ior
the Junior section. MS. will be re-
turned if postage is enclosed for that
purpose. Poems must be signed with
a pen-name only and a sealed en-
velope, containing the author’s name
and pen-name, must be attached to
the entry. The closing date for the
competition will be September 30,
1949, and all entries are to be ad-
dressed to: “Poetry Competition,”
c/o Mr. F. C. Francis, “Amaroo,”
Nundah (Q.).
* * * *
How is the old-fashioned game of
quoits played with iron rings, and
dimensions of the quoits?
“Hobs” of iron are driven into the
ground at a distance of 18 to 25
yards, and the players endeavour to
cast over one “hob” steel quoits
pitched from the other. These are
flattened rings, convex on the upper
side, 8i inches to 9£ inches in
diameter, and from 1 to 2 inches wide
in the ring; their weight varying from
4 to 5 pounds the pair. The nearest
cast to a “ringer” wins the throw;
and, to count, the quoit must lie
rounded side up. The opponents
pitch up a quoit alternately, playing
in a single-handed game from end to
end in succession; and one of each
side from either end in turn at the
four-handed game. Usually 15 points
is reckoned game when four players
participate and 11 when only two are
engaged.
• * * ♦
(1) When and how did Arthur
Cripps become middleweight cham-
pion of Australia ? How many times
did he fight Ed Williams? (2) De-
tails concerning Rudy Unholz, the
Boer lightweight who visited Australia
many years ago?
(1) Arthur Cripps beat Jack Thomp-
son for the Australian , middleweight
championship in 1906. Tim Murphy
took title from Cripps in 1905, but
Cripps regained it from Murphy in
1906 and feigned as champion until
Ed Williams beat him in 1909. Cripps
and Williams met eight times. (2)
Unholz, although known as the Boer
lightweight, was bom at Manheim-
on-the-Rhine, Germany, on October
7, 1881. He began boxing in South
Africa when 22 years old. Unholz
then fought in England and many
parts of U.S.A. until he was out-
pointed by Frank Thorn at Sydney
Stadium on December 31, 1908.
Unholz also met Hughie Mehegan,
Bob Turner, Monty Andrews, Arthur
Cripps, Bob Whitelaw, Bill Hannan
and George Johns in Australia.
* * * *
(1) From what does the Devonian
geological period derive its name ?
(2) Main types of strata that com-
pose the sedimentary deposits of the
period? (3) Principal features that
indicate in which geological period a
stratum was laid down ? (4) Titles
of books that give detailed informa-
tion on geological periods and their
strata ?
(1) The Devonian System was
named by two geologists, Murchison,
and Sedgwick, in 1840, and first
applied to rocks outcropping in
Devonshire and elsewhere. Fossil
corals found in the rocks in Devon-
shire by local collectors were sub-
mitted to a palaeontologist, who de-
termined them to be intermediate m
structure between corals of the
Silurian and Carboniferous periods.
The beds containing them, and others
elsewhere, thus came to be referred
to as Devonian. (2) Sandstones,
shales, conglomerates, limestones,
tuffs. (3) Fossils are the principal
features which indicate in which geo-
logical period a stratum was laid
down. (4) Gregory and Barrett’s
General Stratigraphy, Schuchert and
Dunbar’s Textbook of Geology,
Stamp’s Introduction to Stratigraphy;
and from the Australian standpoint,
Sussmilch’s Introduction to the Geo-
logy of N.S.W., David’s Explanatory
Notes to Accompany a New Geo-
logical Map of Australia, Howchin’s
Geology of South Australia.
Brief Answers.
J.C.P.: Registration not necessary
unless . you propose trading under a
name other than your own. It would
he an advantage to copyright any
publications issued J.W.D.: Write
Local Govt. Assoc, of N.S.W., 42
Bridge-street,. Sydney... .R. 8.: To
convert raw linseed oil into boiled
linseed oil, it is necessary to heat the
oil and to incorporate into it small
quantities of compounds of lead,
manganese and cobalt. These cause
the oil to “dry” more quickly than
raw linseed 0i1... .J.McK.: Naran-
gies were young men learning station
life. The word is used by Joseph
Furphy (“Tom Collins”) in Such Is
Life P.P.: The first Test at Bris-
bane between England and Australia
was played Nov, 30-Dec. 5, 1928,
England winning by 675 runs
L. : Arthur Gilligan captained the
M. team to Australia in 1924-5.
Australia won Tests at Sydney (two),
Melbourne and Adelaide; M.C.C.
won the fourth Test at Melbourne
by an innings and 29 runs. H. L.
Collins captained Australia in all five
matches.... L.A.: The Golden Glory
Vine (, Thunbergia Gibsonii ) is an
evergreen with brilliant orange flowers
and suitable for covering trellis-work
or fences. Seed is obtainable from
Sydney merchants W.W.: The
only reliable way is to cut off seed-
heads and burn them (this will stop
further crop), then dig out the roots
with a sharp chisel or screwdriver.
Holes made can be filled with clean
soil. Brine, caustic soda, kerosene,
wood-preserving oil and trade weed-
killers have had various success, but
digging-out is the surest method....
A.J.M.: The 1916 Conscription
Referendum included 133,813 votes
by members of the A.1.F., of which
72,399 were for, 58,894 against and
2520 informal. The 1917 Referen-
dum included 199,677 votes by mem-
bers of the A.1.F., of which 103,789
were for, 93,910 against, and 1978
informal J. 8.: N.S.W. Premiers
since 1929 have been Bavin, Lang,
Stevens, Mair, McKell and McGirr.
Prime Ministers during the same
period have been Scullin, Lyons,
Page, Menzies, Fadden, Curtin and
Chifley.


FONDE VT* EN 1724
REMY MARTIN
V.S.O.P. COGNAC BRANDY
Of rare age and vintage quality seldom before, if ever,
imported into Australia. Obtainable at most retailers.
BOTTLES, 36/9; HALF BUTTLES, io/9; MLMATUKES, 2/3.
(These prices are slightly higher in West Australia and Qld.)
c/mem/ //..
“Rolls” has the answer to every
light er need * 5 Year Guarantee
* Fully Automatic ★ Wind Proof
Carries Spare Flint Everlasting
Glass Wick ★ Fluid lasts Longer*—
mechanism seals against evaporation
'k Chromium model, 37/6 <—• also in
rhodium and gold.
* Rolls ” Flints, 6d. packet.
Sores caused by
chafing napkins
are soon healed by Cuticura
Ointment. Stops itching
and irritation and assures
undisturbed sleep. Anti*
septic Cuticura cannot
harm baby’s tender skin.
One of the famous trio—
Cuticura Ointment. Soap
and Talcum I’owder. ,
€
■
B
m
m
ALL KINDS OF
FISHING TACKLE!
For river, beach and deep
sea fishermen. English and
French NYLON LINES...
hunting knives , . . smokers’
requisites. Write for new
fishing catalogue, now avail-
able.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 George St., Sydney.
Phone M 6261.
BCPA
to ENGLAND
via U.5.A. or Canada
Reach London in only 4 days
via San Francisco—New York
or Vancouver—Montreal. Fly-
ing the Pacific with BCPA you
enjoy sleeper accommodation,
as well as a 9-hour stopover at
lovely Honolulu. At Vancouver
or San Francisco your connec-
tion to London is pre-arranged
to suit your convenience.
Compare fhe Service
. . . the Comfort
. . . and fhe Route
You gain so much by flying
the "Southern Cross" route
with BCPA. The only health
requirement is a vaccination
certificate. You fly all the way
through English speaking lands,
and BCPA's new low fares to
London or Europe are payable
in Australian currency prior to
departure.
brings you
reduced fares
SINGLE
* £ TUR m
£327
10
£589
10
from
s YDUEy
m
AM
Fly the glamour way to London—across the Pacific in BCPA’s luxurious
f
BCB
Full particulars from your local travel agent or airline booking office,
or BCPA Head Office, 53 Martin Place, Sydney. 'Phone: BW 2741.
ommorm€a£tA Jsisne<3 <£hl.
SYDNEY • FIJI • CANTON ISLAND • HONOLULU • SAN FRANCISCO • VANCOUVER
WITH CONNECTIONS AT SAN FRANCISCO AND VANCOUVER TO U.K. AND EUROPE
8CA.14.12N
THERE OLD MEN
DAVID ROWBOTHAM
IN any large-sized street you’ll
find three old men to interest
you. They are always there.
The three old men in
Moreton-street were not only in-
teresting. They were notorious;
mainly because they had lived
in the town all their lives and,
being constantly under notice,
had never had a chance to live
down their sins and misfortunes.
Everybody knew that widower
Jim Taylor for ten illicit years
had been “married” to that
woman from Brisbane before she
went back to where she came
from. Everybody had, of course,
accepted the situation ; but they
never spoke to the old man.
Everybody knew how Tom
Clyne lost his eye in 1920, and
discussed the incident often, with
a drawing-room respectability.
A pub brawl and a killing gener-
ally makes for everlasting news
and exaggerated conversation in
our town. As a consequence
Tom had a lot of curiosity but
little friendliness directed at him,
and the kids were scared of his
Long John Silver eyepatch.
And everybody remembered
the day Mrs, Laken and her child
were burned to death when the
Laken’s house was destroyed by
fire. Cam Laken, on nightshift
at the time of the tragedy, had to
be locked up. Years later he was
discharged from the asylum, still
a bit “touched,” but sociable.
But no one could quite forgive
him for going crazy in the first
place.
CO the three old men—Jim,
Tom, Cam —being residents
in the same street and outcasts
in a place they had poverty and
courage enough to endure, found
company in one another. Which
was the oldest w r as a question
for the oracle. They all looked
the same age with their white
identical moustaches, and all
possessed fine crops of silver
hair. But Jim was the heaviest
and the most stooped, and he
was muscle-bound.
The whole town held its breath
when Jim Taylor wanted to clean
his spectacles or tell the time in
the main street; especially if he
wanted to do both.
The first signal was the slow
halt in the middle of the foot-
path, then the dangerous lean on
muscle-bound * legs. Then out
from underneath the brim of a
stained felt hat would come a
pair of twinkling spectacles,
image of their wearer’s eyes.
While the spectacles dangled
frantically from the left-hand,
his right-hand would leisurely
draw a handkerchief from his
trousers-pocket.
It took him an eternity to shine
each glass. If the spectacles
seemed to tire of all the fumbl-
ing and made a dash towards the
cement, they would be arrested
in their flight by a monkey-like
swipe that completely enfolded
therm
Jim would laboriously put
them back on with a quaint grin,
and the onlookers would relax.
To tell the time he’d drag his
watch by its chain from an inner
recess and let it fall, dramatically,
chain’s-length to his trouser-
fly. From there he’d safely
gather it up and peer at it. Per-
haps, watch in hand, he’d stagger
to the edge of the footpath, grab
hold of the nearest post for
balance and squint upwards at
the Town Hall clock. Satisfied,
he’d continue on his way, his
chain once more a dull crescent
on his breast.
tom CLYNE, who walked
* with a stick, didn’t need one.
He walked quickly, kept no
tobacco in his worn pipe and
stared fiercely from his single
eye. The only peccadillo he in-
dulged in these days was getting
drunk on Friday afternoons.
He’d leave his stick in the bar
and go home hanging on to the
fences, lisping to everyone who
passed him that he’d “juth had a
stroke.”
There was a rumor that he
wrote poetry, suggestive poetry,
under the penname of “Patch,”
for a men’s magazine, read
widely by women. The rumor
is thought to have, originated
from Mrs. Hardley-Prune, her-
self a poet of some standing who
contributes heroic couplets to the
local press. Mrs, Summers, pro-
prietress of the “Cavendish,” re-
ported that one day in the bar
Tom Clyne said he had written
something reeling because he
was very drunk and stood on the
ceiling and reckoned the future
was a serious matter.
Then he swore and yelled for
hock and soda-water and talked
of some lord bloke named
Byron. So maybe he was a poet.
AM LAKEN’S main occu-
. pation was making the
high-school girls giggle on their
way home from school. Cam
was a very small man, about as
high as a fence-paling and nearly
as thin. With the gesture of a
boy courting all the girls he
fancied at once, he’d offer the
girls lollies, which these days
they would invariably take, since
Jessie Summers, who had first
dared to try one, had not died
on the spot nor missed school
next day.
It pleased Cam no end for
them to accept. If a girl did re-
fuse he’d click his little novelty
frog in her face. One of those
tin frogs you owned as a child.
You kept pressing their bellies
with your thumb while they
made protesting noises like the
sound of a chocolate-wheel turn-
ing.
Cam was never considered a
nuisance; just a “character”
about town. He held office in
the Masonic Lodge, kept a goat
and will, no doubt, be always
remembered for having arrived
at one meeting of the lodge
wearing his washing-up apron.
| T was quite a natural thing
1 for three lonely old men to
get merry together one Christ-
mas Eve and tumble into the
Mayor’s car where it was parked
outside the School of Arts
Hotel. They drove it up to
Mount Singleton, and, annoyed
that the road should stop there,
continued on over the other side
into the lantana twenty feet be-
low the cliff.
Despite the town’s opinion of
Jim, Tom and Cam, God must
have thought them three very
good men, because they all sur-
vived. They entered hospital
together and left together and
managed to pay their fines and
placate the Mayor before they
took the train out of town.
Their departure, miraculously,
went unnoticed, and, as a result,
“Wilson must be copping plenty of overtime —
they've got bacon AGAIN.”
was considered undignified and
mysterious when it was noticed.
Three old men had another im-
propriety to live down.
\ WHERE they went no one
y “ has yet discovered, and,
since the memory of them is
already fading, no one may
bother to discover; but possibly
they will die very respectable
old gentlemen in some other
small town. For small towns
are much the same anywhere.
The grey-haired newcomer, like
the new brOom, sweeps clean
and generally manages to depart
this life in an atmosphere of
respectability. The excellent and
constant citizen (sometimes
called “the old inhabitant”), too,
dies respectable; but he has to
lead a colorless life for the
honor.
So the three old men are gone.
But P. Clynton-Vine, the broken-
down newspaper-columnist with
the aristocratic name, was seen
in town last week with the dis-
reputable Mrs. Summers.
Mr. Plimmet, retired school-
teacher, makes his way home
every evening singing rowdy
songs, and Ted Martin, rising
sixty, is beating his wife next
door.


%
frusaoev
i r>
CLOTH
Wi§
■
Wk
■
I
■
■
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
HOW ARE YOUR SUPPLY LINES?
“Sorry . . . can’t supply,” an all-too-familiar phrase these days, signifying
more “making do” with old equipment and possible loss of valuable stock and
crops. But there’s a silver lining for you in the efficient service of the
A.M.L.&F. Merchandise Department.
Despite the present general shortages, A.M.L.&F.’s long-standing business
contacts enable them to obtain essential requirements with much less than the
usual delay. So —ask A.M.L.&F. 1
85 Years in the Service of the Man on the Land.
Australian,Mercantile,
lian, Mercantile, Land & Finance Coy. Ltd.
Inc. in England in 1863.
4 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches at Newcastle, Wagga, Moree, Henty and Hay.
A 17.22
'THAT
the
This responsibility
is yours
Your beneficiaries have every right to expect that your
estate ‘ will be handled with the utmost care. If your
judgment is faulty, imprudent administration can endanger
assets built up by your energy and foresight. However, it
is a simple matter to provide competent control: the
appointment of Burns Philp Trust Company as executor
or trustee ensures that your beneficiaries will be protected
at every turn.
A copy of "Hands That Never Leave the Wheel" will be
forwarded on request. Full details of the Company s many
services are given in this interesting booklet.
DIRECTORS:
James Burns Joseph Mitchell P. T. W. Black Er.c Pnestley.Lee
MANAGER: L. S. Parker SECRETARY; A. . . .
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR • TRUSTEE • AGENT
Constituted by Special Act of the N.S.W. Parliament.
Head Office; 7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Tel.: BU 5901 M - G - P -°" Syd -"' y .
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO GRAZCOS."
Rust-resislant Wheats.
“Agric”; When a farmer
evolves a new wheat with strong
rust-resisting qualities and the
other attributes which make it a
good farmer’s and miller’s wheat,
there is no guarantee that it will
remain so for any length of time.
Yalta, a N.S.W. Agriculture
Department wheat, has been
grown on the Darling Downs
(Q.) lately. Last season 1282
acres were sown with it. It
yielded well. J. E. Bligh, of
Brookstead, who grew it the year
before last as an out-of-season
wheat —it was headed well in
April—has been advised by Dr.
W. L. Waterhouse, of Sydney
University, that it has been found
to be subject to attack by a new
biotype rust. This is on the lines
of other discoveries of biotype
rusts affecting varieties which
had proved rust-resistant for a
number of years, and emphasises
the need for continued research
on a larger scale.
The delegation of Indian scien-
tists now visiting Australia is in-
terested, on the agricultural side,
mainly in wheat. India is using
some Australian varieties, 'and
Australia is using some Indian
varieties for cross-breeding, and
the scientific interest of one
member of the delegation (Dr.
B. P. Pal) has been on the breed-
ing and genetics of wheat,
potatoes and tobacco, With
special attention to the breeding
of rust-resistant wheats. Though
the delegation was unable to visit
Queensland’s wheat - growing
areas, discussions were held with
the State’s plant - breeding
authorities. With her huge popu-
lation of non-beef-eaters, India
is naturally anxious to produce
first-quality wheat, and expense
is not likely to restrict research
work there, as happens some
times in Australia where it is
not difficult to feed our small
population.
The .Sugar Harvest.
“Beroo”: The record yield of
920,000 tons of sugar produced
by Queensland in the 1948
crushing came from 6,434,000
tons of cane. About two-thirds
of ttois was produced by the four
feeding varieties —Badila, Trojan,
Q. 28 and C.P.29/116. Badila is
an old variety, but still main-
tains its popularity on the better
soils in the far north, particularly
around Innisfail. It is a cane
used for chewing by the natives
of New Guinea, and was brought
from near Milne Bay in 1896.
Trojan, a seedling bred by the
C.S.R. at Ingham (N.Q.), was
obtained from a cross between a
semi-wild, practically sugarless
cane and a less hardy but sweeter
cane. It does well in N.Q. Q2B
came from the Sugar Experiment
Station at Mackay, and has
given remarkable yields over
wide areas in that district. It is
also proving useful in certain
parts of S.Q. C.P.29/116, an in-
“Sure it wasn't an ant bit you?”
troduction from the U.S.A., is
easily the most important cane
in the southern parts of the cane-
belt, where its hardiness, good
agricultural qualities and high
yields have made it popular on
a wide range of soil-types.
New varieties worth watching
are Q. 50, stepsister to Q. 28, in
the central and northern districts,
and Pindar in the far north.
Management of Calves.
“Mac”; The heifer calves are
the future milking herd, so a
good foundation is important.
Feeding should imitate as closely
as possible the natural method.
Where it is not practical to feed
three times a day the milk given
twice daily should be measured
and fed before it gets cold and
the calves fed separately so that
all obtain the correct amount.
All feeding utensils should he
regularly and properly washed
and scalded.
Calves should get the colo-
strum for the first meal or two.
The amount given depends on
the weight and size of the calves
rather than on their ages, but
for the first two or three days
not more than a quart daily
should be given. This can be
gradually increased to a gallon
per day. Overfeeding during the
first two weeks may cause diges-
tive upsets. Cleanliness is im-
portant, whether the calves are
housed or are running free.
Shelter from prevailing winds
and rain should be available.
The longer calves obtain
whole-milk the better, but after
three weeks part of it can be re-
placed by skim-milk, until at
about six weeks they are receiv-
ing skim-milk only. However,
they should be given access to
fresh green-feed and sunlight.
Weaning will be fairly easy
where they have been trained to
eat a little hay. Feeding once a
day is a help. Plenty of good
drinking-water should be avail-
able to replac'e the liquid being
missed. From weaning-time on-
wards a drenching programme
should be instituted, but good
nutrition is as important as
drenching in eliminating para-
sites. During the winter a small
ration of a concentrate will
greatly benefit the calves.
Phenothiazine drenches have
been known to cause temporary
blindness in calves, due in some
way to exposure of the calves to
bright sunlight after the drench
has been administered. Calves
should be kept in shelter, either
under trees or in a shed, on such
days for about 36 hours after
the phenothiazine is given.
Alternatively, drenching can be
done on dull days, when no
trouble will be experienced.
The Farm Workshop.
“Radian”: Layout and equip-
ment depend mainly on the ex-
tent of plant and amount of
work. For general repairs the
workshop need not be elabo-
rate —a part of any weather-
tight shed will do, provided light
is good and there is space for a
6ft. x 2ft. 6in. bench.
Build the bench of Sin. x 2in.
seasoned hardwood for the top
and anchor it with bolts. The
outer plank must be secure be-
cause it carries a vice. The
bench should be of a convenient
height. It can be built against
a wall, making use of wall studs
as rear supports, and for pre-
ference should be under a
window which faces south.
A vice is essential, and for
general repair work nothing is
better than a good sturdy
parallel type, with plain screw
and having a jaw width not less
than 4£in. Provided that it is
not used for an anvil and is given
reasonable treatment it will last
a lifetime. Mount it close to
one corner of the bench so that
it is possible to work either in
front or to the side of it. Make
sure that the inner jaw slightly
overhangs the edge of the bench,
otherwise it will be impossible
to hold a long piece of work up-
right in the vice.
Many parts can be damaged
by gripping directly in the
hardened jaws of a vice and
should be clamped between soft
copper “clams,” or false jaws,
which can be slipped into the
vice as required. A pair of false
jaws can be made from two
pieces of 16-gauge soft-copper
sheet., These pieces should be
as long as the vice is wide and
iin. wider than the jaws are
deep. Clamp each piece in the
vice, with the spare |in. above
the jaws and carefully bend them
back with a hammer until they
form snug-fitting ledges which
will prevent them falling off
when the vice is opened.
Pigs on Pasture.
“Myrrhee”: Allow half an
acre for each brood sow and her
progeny to bacon
weight. Arrange sub-
divisions to have
some paddocks un-
stocked and freshen-
ing to prevent the
land from becoming
pig sick. Graze the
paddocks in rotation.
Put the youngest pigs
on the cleanest
ground; they’re most
subject to infection.
Fit skids to shelter-
sheds and troughs to
make easy their
transfer to unpol-
luted sites.
Preserve the pas-
tures from pigs root-
ing by fitting rings
to their snouts or
cutting off the carti-
laginous tip of the
snouts of youngsters
when they’re a
month old.
Liver Fluke.
“Mr.”: It can be eradicated
from a property by draining
swampy areas and following
this up with bluestone dusting
of pastures around low-lying
areas and dams. For each acre
of pasture to be treated mix
251 b. of powdered bluestone
with 1001 b. of fine sand and
sprinkle around the edges of
pools, dams and depressions.
Bluestone, one part in a million,
will kill a snail. There are two
hatchings a year, July and
December, so that bluestone, to
be fully effective, must be broad-
cast not later than November
or June in each year.
Dry-soil Fertility.
“Carlyle”: Although scien-
tific treatment of soil in the S.A.
desert has been successful (B.
2/3/’49) all other semi-arid land
will not necessarily be brought to
fertility by similar methods. A.
J. Gray, Forestry Officer at Wail
(Vic.), warns of the dire conse-
quences to the Wimmera if land
now covered with vegetation in
Victoria’s “little desert” (near
the S.A. border) is converted to
pasture. He points out that
rainfall in the 90-mile desert is
20in.-24in. a year, and it has
yet to be proved that scientific
treatment is successful where
rainfall is only 15in.-18in. Gray
believes removal of timber and
scrub would induce true desert
conditions and cause a decline
in the Wimmera climate: hotter
summers, colder winters, in-
creased frosts and reduced rain-
fall. It would also destroy the
best home in the State of winter-
ing bees and encourage pests.
Greater wind velocity would in-
crease drift and blow valuable
topsoil from Wimmera wheat-
fields.
Gray further points out that
whereas S.A. towns lie leeward
of the desert area and remain
unaffected by conditions there,
the reverse is the case in Victoria.
Any proposal to utilise the “little
desert” should aim at increasing
vegetation, rather than removing
it. If the future of the Wimmera
is to be safeguarded permission
to clear large tracts for grazing
should not be given unless
accompanied by guarantees of
adequate reafforestation.
Wire-netting.
“Longjon”: The wire-netting
mystery continues. Last January
the Commonwealth Government
promised that Balt labor would
be supplied to Lysaght Bros and
Co., Ltd., Sydney, so that the
company could resume netting-
manufacture. No Balts have
been supplied. Lysaght Bros,
have a plant capable of produc-
ing 200 tons of netting a week,
and it is lying idle while country-
men are waiting to repair fences.
A spokesman for Lysaght Bros,
said “The Government is still
talking about the Balts, but they
have not appeared, nor do we
know when we will get them.”
In. January the Department of
Labor and National Service said
that as soon as the .Broughton
Hostel at Burwood ,was ready for
occupancy 150 Balts would go
to Lysaght’s.
At that stage the department
could see no reason why the
hostel would not be complete by
the end of March. Lysaght Bros’,
wire-netting plant at Chiswick
has been closed down for


SMOKERS
PIPE TOBACCOS THAT ARE
BLENDED TO GIVE
SATISFACTION TO ALL.
HOUSE OF MURPHY. A blend of
the highest grade of leaf to give a
cool smoke of satisfaction that men
prefer. 22/- per lb. Posted.
A.A.A. HILLTOP. A blend of
Australian, American and African.
20/- per lb. Posted.
WINSTON BEADY RUBBED
CIGARETTE TOBACCO. Greatly
improved by better blending of
mature leaf. 24/- per lb. Posted.
Special Quotes to Retailers jor lots 20lb,
weight or over.
Write to: Cash Order Dept.,
Hillman Trading Co.,
Commercial Road, Brisbane.
Postage paid on Cash with order.
Postage extra on C.O.D. Orders.
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs— No Cushions
This latest Invention by Dr. L.
Barrere brings to rupture sufferers an
entirely new method of control, the
result of 40 years’ practice and im-
provements, proved completely suc-
cessful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARR ERE acts like the
hand when placed Bat upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
In all movements, hold the intestine
in its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
barkers: distribution co.
(Dept. 25Z), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
FACING A PAAR
The one thing you will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the Wentworth Is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and hustle. ... The
worth faces a part . . . yet
It Is merely "round the comer’*
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are all you would wish
. . . the service and cuisine
excellent
THE WENTWDATH
In c^>udney
"Phone BW 136! (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
Nu-METAL
SAVES
ENGINE NEW
REBORE RINGS
Just pour RE-NU Liquid NU-METAL
through plug holes. NU-METAL will re-
condition your motor while you drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles, and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL has been proved and
tested by over 100,000 users since 1934,
many owners having used NU-METAL
three and four times in the same engine.
NU-METAL comes to you in a separ-i
ate tube for each cylinder, thus eliminat-
ing guess work. Municipal Councils,!
Engineers, etc., use NU-METAL. Treatment!
costs for 1,4, 6, 8 Cylinders, 10/6, 30/-.,
37/6, 45/-. Call, write, or phone MA7250.!
Mail Orders post free. C.OJJ.’s plus
Postal Charges.
ORDER FORM
forward me by return NIL.
to treat a Cylinder Engine.
I enclose Cheque—P.N.
Or please send me illustrated Folder
describing action of NU-METAL.
(Name
Address
B. 13/4/’49
BRISTOL TRADING COMPANY
... ? st Floor > Bristol Koiiso.
147 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. MA 7250.
KEEP YOUR ENGINE
MMcftmi
M 4-719
• GREATER MILEAGE
•PERFECT LUBRICATION
• LONGER ENGINE LIFE
•IMPROVED PERFORMANCE
•QUICKER STARTING
•COMPLETE PROTECTION AT
ALL SPEEDS & TEMPERATURES
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD.
Mobiloil -THE WORLD'S DUALITY OIL I*
CUU
For immediate delivery contact
Famous British
ENGINES
NOW
AVAILABLE
at
REDUCED
PRICES
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY. LTD.
•PHONE: MA 6311 7-11 MARKET ST., SYDNEY
You’ll gain
so much
by reserving
new
HA Lli
JBh.p Velox
l2h.p.Wyvern
Waiting time for the new Vauxhalls is a
little longer than for less popular makes
but the material advantages of Waiting are
great —in price, performance, operating
costs, service even in high eventual resale
value.
Call on your Vauxhall dealer and ride in
drive yourself a 6-cyl. Velox or a
4-cyl. Wyvem. You’ll realise these cars are
important to Australians designed,
powered and sprung for Australian re-
quirements. (For 14 years Vauxhall has
outsold all other British cars in Australia.)
VELOX, for long range driving, is
England’s answer to Australia’s greatest
travel need. It is truly a top-gear car,
cruises at 60 m.p.h. has a top speed of
75 m.p.h. Its 18 h.p., 6-cyl. engine aver-
ages 28 miles per gallon at 30 m.p.h.
Powered for slow-revving speed. Sprung
for comfortable riding over all roads. Built
for long life. Wonderful coast-to-coast
service established by Vauxhall’s long sales
leadership. Priced to save you plenty!
The new, restyled 12 h.p., 4-cyl. WYVERN
purrs along at 50 m.p.h. has a top speed
of 60-65 m.p.h. Averages 35 m.p.g. at
30 m.pJh. with normal driving. Wyvern’s
performance and roadability are now
“bigger”, more impressive than ever.
Priced at less than Velox.
Both Velox and Wyvem are available as
English-built Saloons . . . Australian-built
Turret-top Saloons ... or Calechs Tourers.
Your _ dealer will give you details of the
G.M.A.C. Confidential Payment Plan and
the made-for- Vauxhall * Air Chief ’ Car Radio.
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE . SYDNEY , MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE . PERTH
Sold and Serviced by Vauxhall Dealers throughout Australia
V 4-24
a couple of years, owing to labor
shortage. When fully-manned it
can employ 500 men.
Tobacco-growing.
“He-Ne”: Although State
Under-Secretaries for Agricul-
ture urged the Australian agri-
cultural Council that the granting
of a satisfactory price incentive
would help to assure the future
of tobacco-growing in Australia,
the council neglected the oppor-
tunity and merely passed a
pious resolution stating the price
was satisfactory and suggesting
the Commonwealth Government
issue a statement to demonstrate
it was interested in increased
production. As if a statement
from Mr, Chifley would main-
tain this struggling industry!
Growers want a definite promise
for the future, not a string of
platitudes.
Tobacco-growers are put to
considerable expense in the
erection of a flue-curing barn,
and before doing this they
should be assured of a good
price for the next few years. The
Crown says it wants to save dol-
lars ; here is a way of doing it:
The Crown should declare a
policy of restricting imports in
line with local production. Local
leaf should be guaranteed a
market here for all that comes
up to a set quality standard. The
Government should do this or
frankly admit it is not concerned
with Australian tobacco-growing
and will allow the manufacturers
to import as much as they like
when the dollar shortage ends.
Australian growers should not
be led to increase production
and instal expensive plant only
to be deserted by the Govern-
ment when they need help.
Farm Accidents.
“Plane Creek”; Half the ac-
cidents on the average farm are
traceable to faulty equipment or
making-do with something or
other. Cracked handles of cut-
ting tools, “hang-on” swingle-
bars, worn-out plough-reins,
harness roughly repaired with
wire are all likely to lead to
sudden and serious mishaps.
There are days on every farm
when it is too wet to work in
the paddocks ; those are the days
when the farmer should look
over his gear to discover what
can be repaired and what must
be replaced. Sometimes a re-
placement costs no more than a
repair, saves time and injury.
Hints for the Farm.
“N.”: To clear blackboys
provide yourself with a sledge-
hammer and a cutting instru-
ment —an old blade from a
mouldboard plough, pointed
and sharpened at one end, wilt
do. Cut the shrubs off at
ground-level and poison the
butts with arsenic pentoxide in
water (31b. to sgal.). Burn the;
remainder. In addition to killing
the plants this will also poison
all rabbits in the vicinity—they
nibble at the moist, newly-cut
stumps. Don’t put stock on this
ground until your pastures are
well away.
“Billjim”: Addition of
molasses will lessen loss of dry
silage due to fermentation. Add
molasses diluted with twice its
weight of water as the stack is
built, usually three to four
gallons to each ton of grass.
Molasses is best applied as the
stack gets higher by filling a 200-
gallon square tank and pumping
it on.
“Sarina”: Here on the C.Q.
coast we blame the fruit-fly for
our inability to get good yields
from marrows or pumpkins.
Melons and cucumbers aren’t
affected. There are bees aplenty,
but the pumpkins drop off soon
after setting. Sometimes we get
a pumpkin if we see it early
enough and wrap it in a paper-
bag. We have citrus, and tho
trouble with pumpkins is not
found on farms where there are
no citrus-trees.
“W. Court”; Paint your name
clearly on the radio battery be-
fore sending it to be charged.
Labels may become detached,
and the battery may be acci-
dentally handed out to somebody
else. I’ve lost new batteries that
way.
“Wilco”; Saving time in the
dairy leads to second-grade
cream. Washing-up should be
done twice daily, using very hot
or boiling water. Wash the
separator thoroughly after use.
Soda must be used to dissolve
grease. Wash brushes, rags and
dairy utensils after each use, and
then scald. The main thing is to
prevent traces of yesterday's
cream tainting today’s.
“Taswegian”: “M.S.” (B.
16/2/’49) told us of an Austra-
lian performing miracles of plant-
breeding—lettuces like cabbages,
broad beans with 70 pods each
15in. long on one plant, etc. In
a world where shortage of food
is a serious problem this is good
news, and it may seem trivial to
make any protest. Nevertheless,
I do think plant-breeders should
give some of their time to pro-
ducing vegetables of a size more
convenient to the average family.
As it is, if a cabbage or cauli-
flower is cut from the backyard
garden, half of it is used and the
other half left to wilt, and, more
important, to lose some of its
food value; pumpkins and
marrows usually go mouldy be-
fore they can be eaten ; large
onions are a nuisance when a
small quantity is needed for soup
or for a stew ; and what use is a
lettuce the size of a cabbage to
two or three people?
“Beroo”: Failure to obtain
Government support did not
deter a dozen canegrowers in the
Maroochy district (Q.) from put-
ting in an ambitious drainage
scheme. The area involved is
1260 acres of swampy peats and
clay loams, a good deal of it
below high-tide level. Two miles
of main drain 40ft. wide by 2ft.
6in. deep had been dug by bull-
dozer when increasing swampi-
ness bogged the machines. How-
ever, nine tons of ammonal ex-
plosive from Army Disposals
completed the last half-mile. It
was found that two cubic yards
of soil were shifted per lb. of
ammonal, and about five chains
was a satisfactory length for each
“blow.” Trees had to be cleared
before the explosions to prevent
fouling. Total cost works out at
about £3 per acre.
Fire-bombs.
“Bill C.”; A good fire-
extinguishing liquid is made
by dissolving 45 parts of
common gait and 22\ parts
of sal-ammoniac in 150
parts of water. Store in
bottles or vessels of thin
glass and use by throwing
the containers so that they
break and scatter their con-
tents at the seat of the fire.


tu ornnnmical way
to bund your owu home library
HUTCHINSON'S
Become a member of Hutchinson’s Universal Book Club,
and promptly at the beginning of each month, the selected
book will be posted to you. A six-months subscription is
£l/1/-, and 12 months subscription is £2/2/-. Both Post
Free! or, you may join on a pay-as-you-read basis, by
paying 3/6, plus 3d. postage, monthly, upon receipt of each
book. The books are by such famous authors as Naomi
Jacob, Rafael Sabatini, Philip Gibbs, Peter de Polnay,
Philip Lindsay, Denis Wheatley, and many others. Each
book is a current best seller of standard size and quality,
and would normally cost much more.
Send enrolment form now or you may, if you wish, enrol
through a bookseller.
Members may obtain any of the previous selections, still in
print, by forwarding 3/6, plus 3d. postage, for each book.
A list of previous selections is forwarded to all members.
HUTCHINSON'S UNIVERSAL BOOK CLUB
Hutchinson House, Cnr. Collins Place & Flinders Lane, Melb., Vic.
ANOTHER ADVANTAGE
I wish to Join your club and enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
BC6/10
subscription.
S.B.
INVITING
How National Savings will help to control prices, reduce
shortages and maintain Australia's economic stability
High prices and shortages can be con-
trolled if all Australians help.
Saving is important. The withdrawal
of surplus money from competition for
scarce goods gives our increasing pro-
duction its chance to catch up with
demand, eases the pressure on prices,
and ensures that available supplies are
distributed where they are most needed.
Yes, national savings are of the
utmost importance. But there is more
to it than that. Your savings should be
invested where they give you the
greatest advantages, and at the same
time benefit Australia.
The Seventh Security Loan fulfils these
requirements. It provides absolute
safety for your savings, good interest
paid every six months, and ready nego-
tiability for cash in emergency.
Your money will be used for these
important National purposes—for Re-
patriation and Rehabilitation, for Public
Works and Services of the Common-
wealth and States, and as may be neces-
sary for the redemption of unconverted
securities in Maturing loans.
Whether your funds are large or
small, the Seventh Security Loan is your
best investment.
Fourteen-year securities pay 3i%
per annum. Bonds in denominations of
£lO, £5O, £lOO, £5OO and £lOOO are
available for cash or by instalments,
and Inscribed Stock for a minimum of
£lOO and multiples of £lO in excess of
£lOO.
Three-year securities pay 2% and
are available for a minimum subscrip-
tion of £lOOO and multiples thereof.
invest today in the
SEVENTH SECURITY LOAN
HOLDERS OF MATURING COMMONWEALTH SECURITIES MAY
CONVERT THEIR HOLDINGS INTO THE SEVENTH SECURITY LOAN
If you hold Bonds or Inscribed
Stock in any of the issues listed on
the right, convert your holdings
into the Seventh Security Loan
immediately (new 2% Securities
are for £l,OOO and multiples only)
arid you will prevent any interrup-
tion to - the income you receive
from your investment.
The following three issues of Common.
wealth Bonds and Inscribed Stock will
mature on April 15, 1949;
2jr% “Victory” Bonds and Inscribed
Stock issued in 1944 (two issues).
(Maturity Date of these issues was
originally October 15, 1949, but
the Commonwealth Treasurer has
exercised his option to redeem these
securities on April 15, 1949.)
2% “Security” Bonds and Inscribed
Stock issued In April, 1946.
Authorised by the Treasurer oj the Commonwealth
7SLI3.J 13.=f3
Divorce Notices-
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO PEARL RUTH SANSOM late of 39
Bondi Road Bondi Junction. —TAKE
NOTICE that LEONARD SANSOM has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 483 of
1948 on the grounds of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 20th day of June
1949 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from McCAW, MORAY &
JOHNSON, Solicitors, 75-77 Pitt Street,
Sydney.—(n.s.) U. DOUGHAN, Acting
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES. — In Divorce.
TO CORAL VERENA CLEMENT and
L. CAROWB or CREW.—TAKE NOTICE
that HENRY LESLIE CLEMENT has
filed a Petition for a Divorce from
CORAL YERENA CLEMENT on the
ground of her adultery with L. Carowe
or Crew If you or either of you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by 20th day of June
1949 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from A. ALISTER JOHN-
SON & McDONALD, Solicitors, of 17
Bolton Street, Newcastle, or JOHN COR-
CORAN & CO., Solicitors, Assembly Hall,
2 York Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Acting Registrar in Divorce.
MR. ROBERT GRANTS TRUST.
M.P. Process
Terms of Advertisement for Newspapers.
COURT OF SESSION, SCOTLAND.
A SUMMONS of MULTIPLEPOINDING
and EXONERATION has been raised in
the Court of Session, Scotland, at Edin-
burgh, at the instance of WILLIAM
CALDWELL CRAWFORD, Artist, some-
time of 85 Great King Street, Edinburgh,
and now residing at Earraid, Biggar Road,
Edinburgh, and THOMAS RANKIN
WILSON, Writer to the Signet, 118 Han-
over Street, Edinburgh, Trustees pre-
sently acting under the Trust Disposition
and Settlement of the late Robert Grant,
Bookseller, Princes Street, Edinburgh,
dated 16th March, 1877, and registered in
the Books of Council, and Session on 18th
April, 1887—PURSUERS and REAL
RAISERS.
Against
(First) the said WILLIAM CALDWELL
CRAWFORD, as Trustee presently acting
under the Trust Disposition and Settle-
ment of the late Mrs. Isabella Alison
Grant or Crawford formerly of 1 Lock-
harton Gardens, Edinburgh, dated 26th
January, 1914, and registered in the
Books of Council and Session on 25 th
July, 1919 ; (Second) the said THOMAS
RANKIN WILSON and GEORGE WIL-
LIAM HAILING, formerly Insurance
Clerk now Life Insurance Inspector, re-
siding at 47 Morningside Drive, Edin-
burgh, the Trustees appointed by and
acting under the Trust Disposition and
Settlement of the late Mrs. Catherine
Ponton Grant or Slater, formerly of 166
Thirlestane Road, Edinburgh, dated 10th
February, 1927, and with relative Codicils,
all registered in the Books of Council and
Session on 10th April, 1947 ; (Third) Mrs.
JESSIE HAINING or THOMSON, residing
at 11a Musgrave Street, Goodwood Park,
Adelaide, South Australia; (Fourth)
LESLIE MORISON HARVEY, residing at
Dequitteville Terrace, Kent Town, South
Australia, Mrs. WILHELMINA WILSON
SOPHIA ROE or REESE, residing at 193
Joffcott, North Adelaide, South Australia,
ELDERS’ TRUSTEE AND EXECUTOR
COMPANY LIMITED, a company having
their registered office at Elder House,
37-39 Currie Street, Adelaide, South Aus-
tralia, the Executors-nominate of the late
Edith Millicent Roe and DOROTHEA
YOUNG, residing at Brierley Lodge,
Belair, South Australia; (Fifth) Mrs.
LEILA MACDONALD HAINING or
CHAMBERLAIN, residing at 72 Moseley
Street, Glenelg, South Australia; (Sixth)
MRS. MARGARET ELIZABETH LAWREY
GRANT or SYMES, residing at Skene
Street, Kennington, Bendigo, Victoria,
Australia, ROBERT MORRISON GRANT,
residing at Patterson Street, Rosebud,
Victoria, Australia, MRS. JESSIE MAY
GRANT or ROWE, residing at 399 St.
Kilda Road, Melbourne, Victoria, Aus-
tralia, MRS. MARY ADELAIDE GRANT
or VICK, residing at 193 Union Street,
West Brunswick, Victoria, Australia,
MRS. AGNES AMELIA GRANT or
WARREN, residing at Harcourt, Victoria,
Australia, JOHN EHSKINE GRANT, re-
siding at Railway Station, Romsey, Vic-
toria, Australia, ALEXANDER PERCY
GRANT, residing at Harcourt foresaid,
WILLIAM DAVID GRANT, residing at
Harcourt foresaid, MRS. ETHEL
FLORENCE GRANT or O’NEILL, resid-
ing at 41 Greaves Street, St. Kilda, Vic-
toria, Australia, MRS. DORIS EVELYN
MYRTLE GRANT or MORRIS, residing at
Barker’s Creek, via Castlemaine, Victoria,
Australia, and REGINALD THOMAS
GRANT, whose last known address was
Sale, Victoria, Australia, but whose
present address is to the Pursuers and
Real Raisers unknown; (Seventh) JOHN
ALEXANDER EADIE, residing at Booth
Street, Golden Square, Bendigo, Victoria,
Australia, ROBERT McGILLYERY
EADIE, residing at care of Mrs. J.
Button, McKenzie Street, Bendigo, Vic-
toria,- Australia, MRS. MARGARET Mc-
DOUGAL EADIE or BUTTON, residing
at 156 McKenzie Street, Bendigo, Vic-
toria, Australia, and MRS. MARY ANN
EADIE, residing at 147 Buckley Street,
Essendon, Victoria, Australia, widow and
representative of the late James Francis
Eadie; (Eighth) MALCOLM GRANT
EADIE, residing at 14 Coronation Street,
Brunswick, Victoria, Australia, HUGH
ANGUS EADIE, residing at 221 Union
Street, Brunswick, Victoria, Australia,
ALEXANDER McKINLEY EADIE, re-
siding at 587 Bay Street, Frankston,
Victoria, Australia, and the Reverend
ANGUS CAMPBELL EADIE, residing at
St. George’s Manse, Ryrie Street, Gee-
long, Victoria, Australia; (Ninth)
THOMAS CAMPBELL EADIE, residing at
233 Victoria Street, East Brunswick, Vic-
toria, Australia, and ALAN STANLEY
EADIE, residing at 4 Westbourne Street,
Prahran, Victoria, Australia; (Tenth)
ALEXANDER McKINLEY EADIE, resid-
ing at 188 Dank Street, Albert Park,
Victoria, Australia; (Eleventh) JOHN
ERSKINE GRANT, residing at Hallow
Bank, Harts Street, Daylesford, Victoria,
Australia, and MRS. MARGARET HELEN
GRANT or POOLEY, residing at* 11
Davies Street, Preston, Victoria, Aus-
tralia ; (Twelfth) ERIC PEROIVAL DIL-
WORTH, residing at care of MRS. A. E.
Scott, Elizabeth Street, Malvern, Vic-
toria, Australia, and ALFRED WILLIAM
MARRIOTT, residing at 10 Greenhill
Street, Castlemaine, Victoria, Australia,
the Executors of the late Mrs. Helen
Grant or Dilworth ; (Thirteenth) WALTER
ERNEST TONGE, residing at Henry
Street, Seymour, Victoria,' Australia,
MARGARET RENNIE TONGE, residing
at 23 Balcombe Street, Black Rock, Vic-
toria, Australia, and MRS. JESSIE
LOUISA TONGE or HUMPHRIES, re-
siding at 23 Balcombe Street, foresaid;
(Fourteenth) the heirs whomsoever of the
late David Forbes Grant, and (Fifteenth)
the heirs whomsoever of the late MRS.
Catherine Forbes Grant or Leslie— -
DEFENDERS.
In the said Summons the Pursuers and
Real Raisers conclude for distribution of
the Fund in medio among the claimants
found entitled thereto and for exonera-
tion of the Pursuers and Real Raisers in
respect of their whole actings and intro-
missions therewith.
In which cause the Court has been
pleased to pronounce the following Inter-
locutor, viz:—
25th March, 1949.
Lord Guthrie.
“The Lord Ordinary finds the Pursuer
and Real Raiser liable in once and single
payment only of the fund in medio ', holds
the condescendence annexed to the Sum-
mons as a condescendence of the fund in
medio: appoints the dependence of the
action to be advertised once in each of
the following The Scotsman,
The London Times and Sydney Bulletin,
and appoints all parties claiming an in-
terest in the fund in medio to lodge
their condescendences and claims by
3rd May, 1949.”
Of all which NOTICE IS HEREBY
GIVEN.
FINLAY & WILSON, W.S.,
Solicitors for the Pursuers & Real Raisers,
118 Hanover St., Edinburgh, 2, Scotland.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor.
S.S.: “Pardon handwritten MSS.,
but just couldn't bring myself to
inflict this on my typist, who be-
lieves me to be sane.” Yet it seems
a pity to conceal from her your
genuine, though precarious, gift for
the love lyric W.L.B.: —
Such thoughts arise, from introspection
While gazing at a prism spectrum.
You’d better gaze at that rhyme
for a while... .W.P.D.: “Satire” is,
alas, a sort of satire on itself
A.M.C.: Your “country lads and
lasses” are strolling down well-worn
English lanes... .8.D.: A touch of
pleasing nonsense in the drunk poem.
8.8.; Your political sentiftrents
are impeccable; your verse vile
J.A.: A faint and fragmentary echo
of the “Ode to the West Wind”....
Bellerive: Good old George:
... .8.P.; Both lightweights J.N.:
Well, they were quite good for fifteen.
But what have you done since then?
. ...8.W.P.: Try a third version
N.G.: Pleasant as it goes along, but
it doesn't get anywhere; you might
make a better ending with that
“fool’s cress” K.W.E.: The “azure
mantle” couplet is the best of the
verse; it’s direct, compact, deeply
felt and not what everybody would
say R.M.; Come again J.L.:
Yes, there’s merit, but no originality
of thought or style E.S.: Bright,
but too much reminiscent of C. J.
Dennis V.S.: Keep at it E.G.;
A touch of humor in the ballad.
Try another T.M.; Fact that your
girl’s “legs are slim and white” duly
noted. If they turn blue when the
cold weather comes, please wire us.
A.L.: “Rosebud” pretty and
weak. Most rosebud verses are
J.M.: Cheer up; your autumn poem
is the saddest thing we have struck
for months.. . .R.S.C.: The “Sylvan
Scene,” the “placid dream,” the
“sunlit flowers,” the “dell,” the place
where “fancy ever strays,” the “sigh-
ing breeze”—all these things are old,
accursed and bagged at the knees.
R. McL.: Mere rhetorical flummery.
B.H.D.; Old, old, old idea
which has been trodden to the dust
by thousands of poetic feet M.L.:
Pretty little album verse that should
suit a woman’s paper A.R.K.L.:
Sound sentiment, but poor verse
V.K.: “Vain Regrets” is only an-
other version of the old man who
gazes at the fire and there sees the
procession of his ill-spent years.
Your old cove in the gully seems to
be gazing at the gum-trees, but he is
the same weariful old bore
J.McD.: It has the usual badness of
“O” poems. One stanza:
O, Virgin Land of the Sunny South ;
0, brightest gem of the Austral seas;
A daughter of Neptune never boweth
To the colored nationalities.
A.B.L.: Very poor, and disfigured
by wild cries of “Hark!” and
“Awake! ” and “Listen! ” and “Stop! ”
and “Go!” and so on M.H.:
Poem too young and green for any-
thing but a children’s page. .-..8.A.;
“The Drifting Mine” bumped the
basket and blew up M.P.: No, it
doesn’t meet with our approval. It
meets with our strongest curse....
A.R.: You lack experience in the
art of yarn-spinning T.W.: Your
pathetic poem on the shortage of beer
has numerous defects; but we print
one verse in hopes that it will bring
you some solace:
The rich may go to. their clubs, you know,
And call for a brandy and soda;
The poor must walk the streets of the
town
Till they find a place that sells beer.
....G.M.: “Sergeant O’Grady” re-
duced to the ranks and awarded three
months’ C.B A.D.S.: We rejected
your larrikin story after looking at
it from several points of the co m "
pass C.R.: The horse-poem about
the outlaw and the lad who rode
him pig-roots and kicks in an alarm-
ing manner. If we printed it, it
would probably lash out with its heels
and injure the items in the next
c01umn....E.J.: Story has humorous
possibilities, but isn’t handled with
sufficient skill... .G.McK.: You sing
in your blithesome way:
Now I can no longer wander
Over hills and vales and streams ;
Still my thoughts take me out yonder.
And I journey in my dreams.
Well, it’s more comfortable than
travelling in one of Hartigan’s trains,
and no one can ever drop luggage
on your feet... .8.W.: You did well
to be timid about submitting it. Your
timidity is the only extenuating cir-
cumstance Horace A.: We are
deeply grateful to you, Horace, and
the poem shall rest next our heart
until it (the poem) is worn out. Our
old chest-protector was about done,
anyway W.W.: Daresay you had
a thundering good time, but it is a
dull narrative as written... .S.D.T.:
In one or two places it rises to
kindergarten level... .P.L.R.: Ap-
proximately 987,357 prospectors have
“left their bones bleaching in the
sun” after murdering their partners
in similar circumstances.
GEORGE RIONOLD.
In drama’s of yore
In a leading part,
A sterling master of
The dramatic art.
His life like pathos
Great power and rage
Crowned him a genius
Of the popular stage.
In “The Lights of London,”
“The Romany Rye,”
And other plays of
Long years gone by,
George Rignold shone
Till past he’s prime,
When he faded out
In our Australian clime.


look your best:
Fnoivl
k 'i !
Viewed from the front, side or
hack, your Akubra always looks
smart and stylish.
Choose the colour, size and shape
to suit you and you will un-
doubtedly look better dressed.
[YES, SIR! From any angle, Comfort—
Style Durability Superb Quality.
AKUBRA is ahead for all-round value.
AKUBRA
Acds o/Qu
Stop-over in Rome,
city of the Seven Hills!
The world-famed centre of Art and Religion,
is a feature of the “Kangaroo” Route. And
there's no extra fare for break-of-journey,
if you like to stay for three days’ to a week’s
enjoyment of Italy’s endless natural, artistic
or historic interests.
The “Kangaroo” service is the shortest route to
Europe, tapping the most glamorous cities of the
East and West. You fly by 4-engined
Constellation in air-conditioned comfort—enjoy
the finest food and perfect service.
Return passage guaranteed.
fl f A and BOM
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS in parallel with
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION
Consult
Consult your travel agent , or
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM’S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“Some women are born with pretty
legs.”— Woman’s paper.
And how the rest would love
to be in their shoes!
4* 4* 4*
“Strayed, Sunday evening, large
Dalmatian dog, black and white.”
—Suburban paper.
Finder will be rewarded with
a few spots.
4* 4* 4*
‘To let: Cammeray, older type
home with ex. views, right on Wyn-
yard bus.” — Suburban paper.
Elevated position and close to
transport.
•£•
Can anyone explain where the
quiet, ladylike woman has gone?”
—lnquirer in woman’s paper.
Most of them have gone up
in smoke.
“For sale: First-year university
books, also dinner-suit.”
—Suburban paper.
Only evening students need
apply.
4* + 4*
“Wanted: Girl for messages, &c.,
14 to 15 yds. Graham Bros.”
—Adelaide “Advertiser."
No other handicap.
Unsound Metaphor.
“I wonder whether Dr. H. V.
Evatt, a former brother of the High
Court, plays the fool or beats his
own trumpet?”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun."
How foolish to suppose that he
Who by his sheer ability
Has earned a post on U.N.O.’s
heights
Where he can freely plead the
rights
Of little nations by the hour
Would now demean his mental
power
By acting like a silly fool.
The mere suggestion is a cool
And calculated insult to
A worthy politician who
With modesty has played his
part.
And as for thinking that his art
Of leadership could make him
beat
His trumpet — why, the answer
neat
[And who is there so dull but
knows it?)
Is this: The Doctor merely
>blows it!
D. H. E.
A Vision.
The chairman of the Sydney
Electricity Tribunal took his
seat at the head of the board
table, where the 30 members —
all of them ex-union secretaries
—were seated.
“Gentlemen,” he said, “I have
to report our most successful
week. There have been 550
blackouts, power has been avail-
able to industry for two hours
a day, lighting has been kept
down to a minimum, but, this
being mid-winter, radiators have
been permitted for five minutes,
commencing at 1 a.m. each day.
“So successfully have we
policed these restrictions that we
have withdrawn another 150
men from the production plant
and appointed them as inspec-
tors.
“A panel of experts has
worked out a scheme to ease the
lot of the housewife, however.
Beginning next week, cooking of
meals will be permitted with
complete lack of restriction be-
tween 11 p.m. and 2 a.m. daily.
That, I think, gentlemen, should
adequately answer those who
criticise our lack of realism and
what they so glibly term our
raw deal to the housewife.
“One matter which has
the just indignation of
the board is the number of
windmills being installed by the
surviving private firms. We
must seek power from the Gov-
ernment that will give us con-
trol of wind.” (Cheers.)
RAY.
Newton Defied.
Though your wife’s hats are
built
So variously
And o’er her right eye tilt
Precariously,
I guess you’ve noticed that
{When a sudden gust occurs)
It’s your confounded hat
Which gets blown off, not
hers !
P. O. M. C.
Full Circle.
“Tokyo’s 73 police-stations had
their phones cut off by the Jap.
P.M.G.’s Department because they
hadn’t paid their phone bills.”
The light not being too good,
Boskasake Watahobo, Tokyo’s
Chief of Police, went over and
snapped on the switch. Nothing
happened. He had just come to
“ Thimble , nurse."
the natural conclusion that the
x supply of bulbs his men had
pinched from the American oc-
cupation forces had dried up
and that his last one had been
.replaced with a Jap-made bulb
when a subordinate came in to
inform him that the Electricity
Department had cut off the
current and wouldn’t restore it
until the unpaid balance of 162
yen had been settled.
“Honorable electricity serang
exquisitely hard man,” com-
mented Police Chief Watahobo
mournfully, “to cut juice off im-
promptu and with malice afore-
thought.”
Knowing it was useless punch-
ing the electric bell, he took
from a drawer one of the
whistles which the police had
confiscated from football
referees the previous Saturday
afternoon because the sound of
them being blown in the parks
might disturb honorable Big
Charlie as he strolled in the
palace grounds trying to fashion
one of his famous poems—which
would easily equal those of
honorable aristocrat Byron only
for such trifling details as sub-
ject, rhyme and metre.
The blast brought to his sanc-
tum his deputy-chief, Iritato
Ichiboko.
“Understand honorable black-
marketeers cough-up with much
handsomeness for electricity-
meter these days,” said Chief
Watahobo, “owing to possibility
of facile convertibleness into
honorable poker-machines with
which it are impossible to click
for three aces or even a couple
of ‘butchers’ owing to wondrous
workings of wheels within wheels
in specific fashion or not, as
case may be.”
“Have learned that honorable
bull’s market operates in case of
electricity - meters - cum - one -
armed bandits,” replied Ichi-
boko.
“Okay, Disconnect meters
from each of our 73 stations and
flog them to honorable black-
marketeers at sky-high price and
with proceeds invest in candles,
manufacture of which has been
made possible by noble sacrifice
of gigantic slimy mammalians of
sperm variety,” and he turned in
the general direction of the
South Pole and bowed rever-
ently. “Should there be any
small change over you can give
somethirfg to honorable grasping
electricity big-shot in hope of
getting us out of his rapacious
clutches.”
Just then a sergeant came in
to announce that the arrest of
several notorious criminals had
had to be postponed indefinitely
because the Mitsubasha Gadget
Manufacturing Company had
just repossessed all the force’s
handcuffs because of non-pay-
ment of hire-purchase instal-
ments. “Understand force has
another lot on lay-by,” he said,
“but lack of honorable Oscar
much handicapping our getting
them out, irritating lousiness of
honorable firm not allowing to
let bracelets go without coin of
what used to be realm.”
The next day the Chief was
sitting on the bare floor of his
office in underpants and singlet
—all the furniture had been re-
possessed, and it was his deputy’s
turn to wear the uniform —
when he was startled by a series
of bumps against the building.
Cautiously looking out, in case
it was the representative of the
firm that supplied the force
with its underclothes, Watahobo
saw several men with a large
flat platform with rollers on it
and a team of horses. The
Police Chief remembered then
—he hadn’t paid the rates on the
building, which was a-movable
one.
Desperately Chief Watahobo
looked around. Perhaps he could
sell some old charge-sheets to a
paper-pulping firm or hock a
few million fingerprints to
Uncle. Perhaps it might even be
possible to get a bargain price
for a few perfectly uncomfort- ■
able cells.
Just as the horses were being
hooked on there was a bit of a
commotion outside and a
heavily-braided official appeared
and gave a few sharp orders to
the removalists. Then he entered
the office with two mechanics,
who began installing a phone.
“What is honorable idea?”
asked Watahobo.
“Intelligence forthcoming at
no great distant second,” re-
plied the official.
As soon as the phone was
connected it began to ring.
Watahobo picked up the re-
ceiver.
“Honorable Police Chief?”
asked a voice. “This is P.M.G.
speaking. Distressingful episode
occurred here short time ago,
please. Honorable burglar busted
safe and decamped with con-
siderable wad. Could police hop
off tail and recover booty?”
Bo.
Not in the Race.
“If the French keep on eating
horseflesh the rate they are doing,
there will be no horses left in France
by 1960.” — Sydney “Sun."
When nineteen - sixty brings
around
Olympic Games it may be found
That Gallic athletes who are fed
On helpings of the noble horse
Instead of tearing round the
course
Will know the trick of running
dead.
If this be so no ringing cheers
Will laud their feats, but slight-
ing jeers
Will rise from out the watching
mob,
And those who followed racing
form
In days when horses ran will
storm '
The track with shouts of "Take
a swab I”
BERT.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
New State in N.Q.
It is good to hear that plans for the
New England new State have gone be-
yond the pipe-dream stage. The same
cannot yet be said for the new State in
north Queensland, yet in no part of
Australia is a new State more badly
needed. The northern people have, for
three-quarters of a century, been at the
mercy of Brisbane, and now are at the
mercy of southern strikes.
Various bodies are complaining of the
drift from north to south. This will in-
crease until industries are established in
the north and that can only be achieved
by the formation of a new State. No better
sites exist for industries than at Towns-
ville, Cairns, Atherton, Mareeba, Innis-
fail, Chillagoe or the Burdekin Valley,
where almost untouched water, coal and
electrical power are waiting. The Burde-
kin Valley hydro-electric power- and
water-conservation scheme is nearly as
huge as the Snowy River scheme, and
more worthwhile from a decentralisation
point.
In the Gulf country there are
thousands of square miles of blacksoil
plains intersected by never-failing
rivers—country capable of produc-
ing enough maize, sorghum and
other grain as well as vegetables
to feed the whole of Australia. The
area represents about one-third of north
Queensland, covering some 110,000
square miles. The present population is
about 5000 whites —pioneers, every one,
to whom a horse is more familiar than
a car. Yet the Government has denied
these people the reconditioning of the
Almaden-Forsayth railway, a 100-mile
stretch which has had practically no
maintenance money spent on it since it
was built 30-odd years ago. Sleepers
have rotted out; for miles there is no
formation, and bridges are out of align-
ment. Only a light railmotor can safely
run on it. Reconditioning of this line,
with an extending link to Croydon, would
be a godsend to the Gulf people and
would encourage settlement —150,000
head of fat and store cattle could be
railed to market instead of having the
condition walked off them in hundreds
of miles of hazardous droving over very
rough country.
Premier Hanlon has promised a new
State for the north “when the people
there can provide for the financing of
such a State. ...the north is costing the
people of the south-east between one and
two millions annually.” He has forgotten
to mention the £lO,OOO per year revenue
derived from one shire alone —the Cook-
town Shire —that comes from its 1500
battlers and which goes to and is spent
in the south-east. And what of the mil-
lions that are derived from the sugar in-
dustry north of Sarina, from the dairying,
maize, tobacco, peanut, timber,, cattle
and sheep, mining and other lesser in-
dustries of north Queensland?
When Queensland was separated from
N. S. Wales in 1859 no such flourishing
industries existed, and yet the new colony
managed quite well in financing itself —
with a population of under 30,000. There
would be approximately 250,000 people
in the proposed North Queensland State,
and four of its towns rank as cities. —
Gip (Q.).
Depression’s Children
“Dee” (B. 23/3/’49) is worried about
the future of our teenagers who are
haunted by the feeling of insecurity.
The lads of 18 of my acquaintance
seem to have laid the ghost. Instead of
being afraid to give up a secure job, they
flit from pillar to post in the sure and
certain knowledge that there is always
another position to be had for the asking.
Even the sack holds no terrors for them.
It is they who sack the boss whenever
they feel so disposed or whenever the
obsolete word “discipline” is mentioned.
They have to be bribed by ideal condi-
tions and amenities to stay-put long
enough to become worthy of their hire.
What of their future? They will be
adventurers, but not pioneers. Their eyes
are turned towards the brightest lights
and the smoothest paths, while their ears
are attuned to music while they work.
The “Situations Vacant” columns in
the Press indicate that our youth can
have both the swings and the round-
abouts. They can be everything in turn
and nothing long, not because they are
courageous, but because they have no
ambition beyond the immediate present
and the most tempting offer for their
temporary services. If the chucking of
jobs is a sign of high emprise, then Aus-
tralia is a nation of heroes. — Adver-
tiser (S.A.).
The Russians
The Russians (B. 23/3/’49) have not
changed much in the last 300 years. In
1634 one Adam Olearius wrote a book
called Voyage in Moscovy, Tartary and
Persia. In it he recorded: “The Rus-
sians are highly suspicious of foreigners,
who are watched constantly by secret
police. Furthermore, Russians do not re-
ceive foreigners in their homes, and seem
afraid to talk to them much. A message
sent to a member of the Government
usually remains unanswered, and if one
is importunate one is told that this official,
has left the city or is ill. Foreigners are
permitted to travel in Russia only after
great difficulty, and during their travels
are very closely watched. Because of cold-
ness and suspicion, foreigners visiting
Moscow are forced to associate with each
other exclusively.”
And the present Russian brand of
diplomacy is nothing new. In 1661 a
young French diplomat, Augustin Baron
de Mayerburg, wrote a report on a French
conference with the Russians. Portion of
it, translated colloquially, reads: “Diplo-
matically the Russians are very difficult to
get along with. If one submits a plan
they counter it with another. Their diplo-
mats are not trained in the large world
but are mostly people who have never
“ You’ll find this drive-yourself model quite smooth, sir.”
left Russia. The Russians cannot go
diplomatically in a straight line. They
never get to the point; they argue in
circles. Words are picked up and
bandied and tossed until in the end a
general confusion is the result of any
conference.” — Carlyle (Vic.).
T.B. in Tasmania
At last a real effort is to be made to
wipe out tuberculosis in the Speck. The
Tasmanian Assembly has passed a bill
making examination and treatment com-
pulsory. The free mass X-ray scheme
introduced a few years ago was a definite
step towards controlling the disease, but
complete co-operation is necessary for
success, and some people« apparently
were not interested. Most Australians
rightly resent compulsion, but in this
instance it should be accepted readily.
Compulsory examination and treat-
ment, however, are not the only things
necessary to defeat the disease. Good
food, adequate housing and education
all play a part. And last, but certainly
not least, the sufferer must be freed from
financial worry, as his mental state has
a tremendous effect on his physical con-
dition. — Taswegian (Tas.),
In Those Days
The present perfect against the im-
perfect past, is it (B. 16/3/’49)? What
have I, with a wife and two sons, that
my father, with wife and seven sons, did
not have in pre-war 1914? I have an
income—wages —of £lOOO and pay tax
on anything up to £2OOO, according to
the amount of spare time I have for mid-
night oil-burning. My father’s income
I never learfied, but he allowed my
mother 30s. a week for housekeeping,
boasted he spent no more himself and
that he paid no taxes.
I have a telephone, radio, electric light
and an empty garage instead of the stable
in which my father kept a good horse
and jinker as well as a knockabout cart.
That completes the list of my amenities.
Expensive wardrobes? Nonsense. My
father had a couple of business suits every
year, a household wardrobe, gardening
clothes, a dress suit with two waistcoats
and a dinner-jacket, several pairs of shoes
which he changed several times a week,
sweaters, socks, ties and collars and shirts
galore, and curious addenda such as
huckaback waistcoats, lodge regalia,
assorted overshoes, gaiters and umbrella
which he donned along with one of his
several greatcoats or capes on the hint
of inclement weather. I forgot his range
of hats —topper down to cycling cap.
Both mum and dad Had bikes.
Me? I can’t remember when I bought
either of the two suits I wear and shall
have to wear indefinitely. I don’t wear a
hat except in the garden, where I use
my old Digger hat. I have a 40s. rain-
coat, two pairs of shoes and not one
unmended sock or shirt. My house-and-
garden wear is the tattered remnant of
what I acquired from the Army.
My father owned a weatherboard
house —three times the size of the one
I rent —15 miles from the city. He
travelled every day by rail, first-class, to
town for £l2 a year. I use a weekly
and pay £4O to travel by bus and rail
25 miles to town. Dad worked nine to
five and five and a half days a week and
was home by six every night. I work
nine to five five days and am home by
8.30 and start again after dinner.
The old chap’s meals in the city cost
him five bob a week at the outside;
mine cost me 3s. to ss. a day. Beer was
threepence a pint, cigarettes threepence
a packet, but he thought ’em both vulgar
—he could afford cigars and he kept a
pretty good cellar and entertained a dozen
people at a time at home pretty often.
He had a big bookcase of calf-bound
stuff which nobody ever seemed to read.
My library still consists of the Everyman’s
I bought at a bob a time out of the
couple of bob a week I used to make
out of odd jobs in those days—l can’t
even afford to buy Everyman’s today,
at four or five times the price.
My father used to take my mother to
town once a week at least to dinner and
a theatre —theatre ranging from cheap
bellodrammer of the “Worst Woman in
London” order to lovely old things like
“Floradora,” colorful Julius Knight and
the Gonzalez Grand Opera Company.
Good or bad, we haven’t even got those
today and 1 can afford the local movies
only every so often, which is all to the
good, for the movies are- trash. Inci-
dentally, although there was plenty of
local amusement in those days like
sociables, dances, amateur theatricals,
picnics and school concerts, and we went
to the lot, we needn’t have, because we
had a piano and everybody in the house
except me played something and we made
our own amusement.
Dad kept, in addition to useful
household animals such as a poddy,
a pig and a few pullets, not only a couple
of cats, two decent dogs, one magpie and
a kookaburra, but believe it or not, a
koala. Today I can scarcely afford the
meat for one cat, the council won’t let
me keep poddy or pig, the State won’t
let me keep a koala, while the maggie and
the kooka, after a look at the leavings
that go into my ageing ashcan,
wouldn’t have me as a gift.—A. L. P.
(Vic.).
Public Servants
A public servant’s ability to apply
practical experience will earn him little
unless it is backed up by the seniority
that only a permanent appointment
secures and reinforced with passes in
examinations conducted by the Public
Service Board.
Some aspects of administrative ability
can be discovered by examination, but
not initiative and leadership. Many pub-
lic servants pass their final tests at about
25. On the strength of that —such is the
dearth of officers with this qualification—
they are posted to higher-graded positions
for which they are not sufficiently experi-
enced.
One young fellow I know with the
necessary examination-results was posted
to an exacting position which demanded
the ability to handle a large staff. He
did not have that ability or the neces-
sary varied departmental- experience.
Still, he was a trier and stuck it out
doggedly enough until he had a nervous
breakdown.
A middle-aged temporary officer was
sent to carry on until the board made a
fresh appointee. He took over an over-
staffed section in which discipline was
lax and from which a return had not
been dispatched on time for months.
Two months later returns were getting
away on time, mail answered promptly
and the staff reduced by three.
The man who, accomplished this had
not passed an exam, since he left school.
He had worked for various employers
and was willing to apply successfully
office methods picked up in his travels.
After the board completed its delibera-
tions this man went back to the routine
job in line with his grading ; his succes-
sor was a young fellow with the ink
barely dry on his exam, papers. There
are scores of similar cases. —P. L.
(N.S.W.).
Droughts and Railways
“Will S. Pryce” (B. 2/ 3 / ’49) does not
voice informed public opinion when he
states that a railway from Cunnamulla to
Bourke and another from Blackall to
Charleville would spell serious economic
loss and that they would not open for
new or closer settlement one acre of land
or increase the carrying-capacity of one
holding.
Without knowing the tenure of all the
leases through which such railways would
pass, it is not possible to say what land
would be made available for new or
closer settlement, but the proximity of a
railway-line certainly assists closer settle-
ment when areas are being subdivided.
The main organised objection to the
rail link from Charleville to Blackall has
always come from business interests in
Rockhampton which fear loss of trade
if such a link is constructed.
No one envisages these rail links being
used only in times of drought. In all
directions many miles of droving sheep
and cattle would be saved were there two
rail links constructed.
“W.S.P.” endorses a statement,made by
the Queensland Labor Premier (Mr. Han-
lon) when he says it would be better,
from a broad economic viewpoint, for
sheep to die in a drought than to
burden the State with more non-paying
railways. Since Hanlon made that remark
there has been a drought in the central-
west, but instead of his Government pay-
ing for the sheep lost in the drought —he
had said this would be preferable to
building the rail link —it collected a trans-
port tax on every head transported from
the drought area to agistment country by
motor-lorry, although the railways could
not transport them. — Outback (Q.).
Root of the Matter
While Mr. Chifley says save, we who
have saved all our working lives find
that the pound we put away in 1900 is
today worth about ss. Our hard-saved
£BOO is now worth £2OO, and we are de-
barred from old-age benefits by the
means test. We would have been more
sensible to have spent our pounds and to
draw the old-age pension today. What
would be thought of a firm or insurance
company which exacted contributions and
when the time came to pay up, regulated
the amount of pension according to the
means of the insurer? — Experto Crede
(N.S.W.).
Re Norman Angell (B. 16/3/’49): It
is a common misconception that he
“maintained that the rising cost of war
would put it out of existence.” In point
of fact, his thesis was that war could
not be made to pay, and he showed by
detailed analysis that since, under modern
economic conditions, it is impossible tor
the victor to recoup his costs by in-
demnity or tribute without damage to
his own domestic economy (which was
formerly possible in a more primitive
society) the ultimate end must be a futile
wastage of assets leading to national in-
solvency with all its implications. View-
ing the condition of Britain s affairs
today, with the major part of her over-
seas investments either vanished or
pledged and her sadly atrophied standard
of living bolstered by borrowed funds,
can it be said that Angell was wrong, or
is it necessary to “wonder what he would
think of modern military statistics. 1
should be emphasised that, being an
writing as an economist, his book dean
primarily with that angle ; but his ethica
plea was for a change of human natur
which would make war impossible, isn t
that the gleam which all men of goodwill
still pursue? — Chass (Vic.),


secretary of the Kandahar Club —a com-
munity as fixed and complacent as that
of any English village—have been warned
that with the British departure from
India, they may expect a rising of the
Muslims from the hills. But they still
dawdle and dicker, one insisting on
transport for tons of his furniture, an-
other complaining that he will not go
unless the plane agrees to take his pedi-
greed Sealyhams ; others considering that
it can’t happen here.
Into this community flies lan Pearson,
on holiday, a former prisoner-of-war in
Germany who has been unable to make
a do of it as commercial traveller in
Calcutta ; he engages a houseboat, makes
friends with Madame Isette Simon-
Dumesmil, an ever-so-slightly colored
lady of the half-world, and with the rich
and blind Elizabeth, who travels with
an escort of two pleasant and pugnacious
young men. Isette physically, and Eliza-
beth mentally, are supposed to give him
the confidence necessary to his regenera-
tion.
Arising from Isette’s ministrations,
Pearson makes a one-man expedition to
Belapore to see what has happened to
Major ,£nd M*s. Britten and their two
children, and here the war-correspondent
comes to the fore with a description of
their murdered bodies and the capture and
escape of Pearson. Back in Kandahar,
the British are interrupted at a cocktail
party by news of the advancing tribes-
men ; tbe native quarters are looted and
ravaged ; but the British untouchability
lasts long enough to get them off by
plane.
It is a brilliant little novel, with the
unity and immediacy of a swift and
carefully-planned campaign; there is
amused satire for the British, sympathy
for Elizabeth and Pearson ; considerable
understanding of the machinations of the
Indians; but for Isette, babbling with a
child’s gaiety, braving like a child the
icy disapproval of the retired officers’
wives, and at the same time with the
determination of the experienced woman
to get out with the British, at whatever
cost, there is delight; and in the big
scene between Isette and Pearson Mr.
Moorehead shows himself as much a
master of the arts of peace as of the
arts of war, though whether the austere
Montgomery would approve his tactics
is another matter.
Hard Earth.
A curious, reluctant hardness is the
distinguishing quality of Don Edwards’s
first novel, Thf Woman at linger a
(Dymocks). The people are hard, the
earth is hard, the novelist’s outlook is
hard and the prose itself is hard—careful,
meticulous writing that evokes, with
almost grudging affection, the blend of
harshness and stubborn beauty to be
found in a hard countryside:
The schoolroom was hot. the flies buzzed
about the children and crawled on the
ceiling, and the red dust from the road
floated in through the windows, but from
the window where he leant he could see a
good deal of the township, and the lorries
rattling over the white wooden bridge, and
the creek twisting away between its high
red banks and fringe of gum saplings and
dark sheoaks to the bend where Jack
Armstrong’s cottage stood.
Realism of this kind has, of course,
not been uncommon in Australian writ-
ing since Lawson’s day. Nor, while the
raw country towns in the red dust are
written about —and especially when, as
in The Woman at linger a, the bush is
seen through the eyes of a central charac-
ter from the city—will this element of
hardness ever be lacking. It is a basic
fact of the countryside and, no doubt, as
Don Edwards says, a basic fact in the
characters of the people of the countryside.
Granting the fundamental hardness,
the interest in most country-town novels
lies in the variations —in the way of
humor, poetry or drama —the novelist is
able to perceive in his intractable
material. If fineness or richness of per-
ception are lacking, as they so often are,
the hardness is blunted* to a mere flat
realism. If a false variation is attempted,
the writer making his people conform to
a preconceived idea, the hardness is
usually watered down by sentimentality.
Don Edwards has cut himself off from
one possible set of variations by sur-
rendering to the narrowly democratic
tradition established by Lawson, which
excludes from the picture all the grace,
pride and sensitivity that, even in Aus-
tralian country towns, may be found in
great houses and among people of cul-
ture. All the squatters and all the “solid
citizens” in The Woman at linger a are,
automatically, the enemy, allowed to
appear only in brief and unlikeable
activities; and though the hero, Fred
Preston, is a schoolteacher, he never
reads a book or, except when he is
meditating on the superiority of quarry-
men to squatters as an embodiment of
the countryside, thinks a thought that
could not arise in the rock-like head of
a navvy.
There is something less than realism
here: a deliberate narrowing of focus,
shown again in the picture of the school-
children as so many wooden dolls, sitting
at their desks “passive and quiet as
the countryside itself.” The novelist,
obviously, is not going to have any
awkward facts of grace or animation
interrupting him when he is demonstrat-
ing how hard, dead and plebeian is the
countryside of Jingera.
A similarly unreal “realism” is to be
found in the novel’s central characters,
and its central situation. The teacher,
shown only in his physical life, is not
even fully drawn from that aspect. In
the opening chapter, for instance, when—
a little too obviously for suspense to be
maintained in the later chapters—he is
attracted by a tough woman, the mistress
of a tough, whom he picks up from the
roadside in his car, the reader is given
no information as to whether he is a
normal young man hoping for amorous
adventure in the new town, or a sensitive
young man who, though physically at-
tracted to the woman, is mentally repelled
by her; or indeed, as to what kind of
young man he may be. He seems like a
lump of rock; with vaguely explosive
possibilities.
And the woman, beautifully as her
appearance is described, and attractive as
is her mysterious reserve, lacks the coarse
vitality that must sufely belong to such
a creature of the shack, the pub and the
road. One doubts whether there is really
a woman behind the reserve; whether
there is not, once again, a kind of symbol
of the countryside—the wild and secretive
bush this time —rather a human
being. v 5
As a result of the unreality of these
two people, the book’s biggest scene —
when the schoolmaster takes the woman
to live with him, defies the community
and the authorities and, in consequence,
loses his job—lacks breadth, excitement
and depth. Don Edwards is more con-
cerned to turn a schoolteacher into a
quarryman than he is to tell us
what really happens or could happen in
a country town when a teacher (from a
motive that might just as well be self-
destruction as self-creation) causes a
superb and deadly scandal.
There are compensations for the nar-
row focus and for the central unreality.
Don Edwards has written many good
short stories and, naturally enough
woven into the text of this novel, as part
of the description of the countryside,
there are the stories of the storekeeper
Fitch —an excitable loon who kicks in
the headlights of his car —and the delight-
fully lazy Mr. Dorgan, whose wife, even
when he runs away from her, is proud of
his independent spirit. These and other
anecdotes, restrained but amusing, make
the proper and necessary variation of
humor and humanity on the basic hard-
ness. They lift the pattern of realism
from the flat to the rich, and the touches
of charm in the landscape and the women
infuse a strain of poetry into it.
But neither comedy nor poetry is the
dominating quality. One comes back to
the hardness. If the teacher and his
woman are not quite real, they are neither
flatly literal nor soft with sentiment,
but hard with sensuality and real in a
symbolic way as the essence of the hard
countryside. With its glints of light and
streaks of color, its flaws, its rough
edges, its obviousness and its persisting
vitality, the book is like a piece of
quartz. It makes a somewhat gritty
mouthful and it is not large enough for
majesty; but it is solid, it exerts on the
mind a kind of rocky fascination, and
one would certainly not like to be hit
on the head with it.
Lost Boy in Africa .
Possibly because of recent displace-
ments in Europe, the search for the lost
child has been revived in the world’s
literature. In one week, Sydney has seen
it being vigorously prosecuted in an
American film about Germany, and in
an Australian play about Surry Hills ;
and here it is again in South Africa; the
story of an old Zulu clergyman who goes
from his village to the great city of
Johannesburg in search of his sister and
his son {Cry, the Beloved Country, by
Alan Paton—Cape; Australasian Pub-
lishing Co.).
Mr. Paton has taught in South African
native schools, and has spent many years
as principal of a Johannesburg reforma-
tory. He may be expected to understand
the South African native ; and the simple
and naive English of his novels seems to
be his effort to show us how a Zulu
thinks and feels.
« The old Zulu parson, Stephen Kumalo,
has a letter from his brothers in the faith
in Johannesburg that his sister is sick
there. He goes by train to Johannes-
burg ; he finds that his religious friends
have been euphemistic; his sister is
living as a prostitute, and has a little
boy. From habitual deference to the
male and the cloth, his sister reluctantly
agrees to accompany him back to his
village. Then he meets his brother, who
has achieved mild affluence as a car-
penter and a name as agitator for the
black man. He asks for his son, and
finds that the boy has departed with his
brother’s son, to live a life of his own.
Then begins the search for the son
through the suburbs of Johannesburg;
they trace him from lodging to lodging
progressively more depraved and there
are words about the housing problem,
because the big city is drawing the natives
in from their tribes. “From the Transkei
and the Free State, from Zululand and
Sekukuniland, Zulus and Swazis, Shan-
gaans and Bavenda, Bapedi and Basuto,
Xosas and Tembus, Pondos and Fingos,
they are all coming to Johannesburg”:
Have you a room to let?
No, I have no room to let.
Have you a room to let?
It is let already.
Have you a room to let?...
I have a friend who waited only one
month for a house.
I have beard of such. They say you can
pay a bribe.
We have no money for a bribe.
I am sorry, but the house is full.
Walking miles and miles because the
bus companies have raised the fares on
black men’s buses, and the blacks have
boycotted them, old Kumalo searches in
houses of ill-repute and shanty towns,
and finally traces his boy to a reforma-
tory, from which he has just been freed.
Here he finds the address of, his son’s
sixteen-years-old mistress —and then his
son is announced to him in the news-
paper headlines ; he has gone robbing the
home of a white man, an enthusiastic
friend of the black men’s cause, and he
has killed the white man with a pistol.
Thus the old black clergyman catches
up with his son in prison, a confessed
murderer. He sees him through the trial,
has him married to the girl who is carry-
ing his child, and so departs ; the son
awaiting transport to Pretoria, where he
is to be hanged ; the father returning
with the young wife and his sister’s child,
his cister having decamped at the last
moment to the native village.
Here, Mr. Paton indulges a certain
amount of wish-fulfilment. The father
of the murdered man, impressed by his
son’s advocacy of black people’s rights,
throws his money right and left to have
the black community of old Kumalo
taught agriculture and the good life on
the land. No doubt Mr. Paton hoped, in
writing this book, to wake people up to
the need for putting the seven millions
of black people in South Africa beyond
the corruption and depravity of the big
cities.
As aN by-product, Mr. Paton has pro-
duced a powerful and original novel.
The simplicity of language and story are
almost Biblical, yet they express a big
modern city, and, as in the prison scenes,
where the old man is trying to get past
his son’s listlessness, the simple words
are equal to the most complex and pro-
found emotion. If not as a religious
book, then certainly as a work of art,
this novel lives up to its sub-title; “A
story of comfort in desolation.”
Reviewed Briefly.
Low Life : (Bodley Head).
Collection of light verses about animals,
feebly decorated by Boswell. Pud-
ney writes this sort of thing:
Pathetically daddy-long-legs claim
Their preference for any other name.
Alas, how tedious is the campaign by
All of them to be called crane-fly.
Something should obviously be done by
the R.S.P.C.A. to protect animals, animal-
lovers and connoisseurs of both humor
and light verse from this sort of gnat-
like ribaldry.
* * * *
On Seeming to Presume: Poems by
Lawrence Durrell (Faber). Mr. Durrell,
as in his previous books, wanders about
the Mediterranean world, chiefly Greece,
and ponders on everything that interests
him from Homer to pottery. In spite of
his special antiquarian interests, there is
something anonymous about his verse,
as if any intellectual of the moment could
have written it. ,It is always well written,
moderately comprehensible, and never
exciting.
* ♦ * *
Monkey Face : Stephen Gilbert (Faber).
Novel about an ape, kept in captivity in
a suburb of Belfast, which learns to talk,
goes to school and has alarming adven-
tures with the press and other representa-
tives of Western civilisation: from which,
eventually, the ape retires to the jungle.
It is one of those bright ideas which have
to be a brilliant success or a flop: this
one is a flop, chiefly because the author
is too sentimental about his ape and the
small boy who makes friends with it.
Adults or children would find it, at best,
tepidly amusing; but it might make a
profound impression on a monkey.
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 12
(cryptic type.)
Across.
I—These1 —These American trail-blazers left
among the bets. (10)
s—Rodents5 —Rodents turned a film celebrity.
(4)
9—Countenance one among the fel-
lows. (4)
10 —Iron base (anagram). (8)
12 — The pagan and I perform after-
wards. (8)
13— Have an innings with that
woman’s swimmer. (6)
16— Title house, though concealed, is
a shadowy outline. (10)
17 — Sprites show that I am a corres-
ponding afterthought. (4)
19— Excellent penalty. (4)
20 — Relating to the study of ontology
and cosmology that encountered
a medicine. (10)
23 — Swear that a lock is turned. (6)
24 Edward, being backward, was a
sinner even though discouraged.
(8)
26 —Pettily criticised cad gets round
the French town. (8)
28 — Pepper the skin. (4)
29 — The palm bears information
about an assignation. (4)
30 — This bird stands behind the plate
in dipterous baseball. (10)
(Solution in next issue.)
Down.
1 — These pests suggest how sins
might speak of themselves. (7)
2 Lamb gosling (anagram). (H)
3 One of the rocky mountains of
“The Valkyrie”? (8)
4 Mottled alternative upset one. (4)
6 N.Z. bird. (3)
7 Again classifies and groups the
holiday centres. (7)
8— Holy book managed a knockout
early. (5)
11 —Always allowed about a young
animal. (7)
14 — Straight characteristic would be
appreciated in some overcrowded
dwellings. (4, 7)
15 — Sea-salt contains collection of
charts. (7)
18 — Put a sock in it; but how do
yoU “au gratin’’ cauliflower?
(6, 2)
19 — Limp of a young animal upset
by a Spanish hero. (7)
21 — Beastly fellow is to give testimony
on the corpse. (7)
22 — Comic coppers stagger. (5)
25 —Welsh emblem rises in the ship’s
stem. (4)
27 —Five at the barrel. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. Jl.


cfflecfymMtf
The A.W.A. monogram on any instrument is a mark of
quality and scientific craftsmanship. It is the symbol of the
Radio Age, representing the knowledge gained from research
and engineering over more than 35 years.
Behind all A.W.A. products and services are the A.W.A.
laboratories, which have advanced radio in the home, on the
highways, at sea, and in the air. As one of Australia’s key
industrial organisations, A.W.A. recognises the value of
scientific research and its important role in peace and security.
Investigations now in progress include the use of frequency
modulation for telephone communication with moving
vehicles, as well as for broadcasting, development of special
transmitters and receivers to improve radio-telephone services
between Australia and overseas countries, television and
work on a number of new radio aids for navigation.
Over 1000 ships of the Merchant Navy are equipped with
A.W.A. wireless apparatus.
The progress made by commercial aviation and the enormous
mileages covered are due in a large measure to the develop-
ment of wireless and its application to aerial navigation and
communication.
A.W.A. maintains in a serviceable condition all radio equip-
ment in Australian commercial aircraft and overseas aircraft
operating to Australia. Over 150 aircraft for 20 different
companies are serviced by A.W.A. This has necessitated the
establishment of radio-servicing depots at all principal
aerodromes.
BROADCASTING TRANSMITTING STATIONS
WIRELESS TELEGRAPH AND TELEPHONE STATIONS
AERONAUTICAL RADIO EQUIPMENT
MARINE WIRELESS
RADIOLA BROADCAST RECEIVERS
SOUND AMPLIFYING SYSTEMS
#
%, jm
Ship’s Wireless Station
jvi
ilßi
mm
60,000-watt Broadcast Transmitter
:
i
1
Radioia Assembly at Works
-- -
* &
:SiSiK
m
Studio Control Apparatus
AMALGAMATED
WIRELESS (Australasia)
ia 9 s National Wireless Organisation
47 YORK ST., SYDNEY 167 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE
Also at WELLINGTON, N. 2., and AUSTRALIA HOUSE, LONDON
