

Mm
PURPLE PARA
>*** 1 v. >• - • '
A PRODUCT
. ■<
;5S . 4 .
O F
..
THE
v'
HOUSE
> F SEPPELT
The Bulletin
‘The Bulletin,” VoL 70—No. 3625
Wednesday, August 3, 1949
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
HERE LIVED JOHN KEATS,
THE SURGEON TURNED POET
JOHN KEATS, the j)oet, lived the
greater part of his life in London. He
was born during 1795 in a livery stable
in Finsbury Pavement, later moving to
Church Street, Edmonton. His school
days were spent at Enfield, and on leav-
ing school at the age of fifteen, he
apprenticed to a local surgeon. At this
time he began reading Spenser and
writing verses. A quarrel with this
surgeon terminated his apprenticeship,
and for the next three years (1814-1817)
he studied at Guys and St. Thomas’s
Hospitals, London.
In April, 1817, Keats gave up his
medical studies and published his first
book of poems. His close friends at that
time were Leigh Hunt, Cowden Clarke,
Armitage Brown and Haydon. His
friendship with Leigh Hunt did much to
establish his literary career on a sound
foundation. In order to be near Hunt
John "Keats moved to Wentworth Plate,
later known as “Lawn, Bank,” in Hamp-
stead, shown in this illustration. The
house originally consisted of two dwel-
lings ; in one half lived Keats and his
friend C. A. Brown and in the other half
lived Fanny Brawne, of whom Keats
was very fond.
It was in the garden at “Lawn Bank”
that Keats wrote or revised many of his
most famous poems, which included
Hyperion, The Eve of St. Agnes,
Endymion and his great odes, To a
Nightingale and On a Grecian Urn.
In 1820 John Keats contracted con-
sumption and in the September of that
year sailed for Rome, where he died the
following year at the early age of
twenty-six.
The house in which John Keats lived
is now a museum in which may be seen
many interesting personal relics, books,
engravings and portraits of this great
English poet whose memory is here kept
forever green by a wreath of myrtle
brought annually from his tomb in
Rome.


‘ Siom Writing
pt HOMF
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to IVrite for Profit as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
8.8. 249 ...
AGE
The Red Page
CONVERSATION PIECE.
The pleasure of really good conversa-
tion does not lie in controversy but in
agreement. It should not stimulate the
mind to fanatical dispute but to delighted
discovery. It is a meeting-place where
valuable information may be exchanged
and where, by a shared and temperate
reasoning, truth may be revealed. Nettie
Palmer’s Fourteen Years (Meanjin Press)
is a meeting-place of this kind ; a con-
versation-piece.
The difficulty in talking with a book
is, of course, that it is impossible to in-
terrupt it; but then, as in the best con-
versation, it is so seldom one wishes to
interrupt this book: except to agree with
it and to ask it to go on talking. Con-
sider, for instance, the comments on
Conrad; —
And on Galsworthy: —
Perhaps The Forsyte Saga was not such
a solid structure after all. Perhaps one is
inclined to credit it with the integrity of
its early design. When Galsworthy began
it, he was under the influence, the pressure,
of men like Conrad and Edward Garnett,
who kept him to the austerities of his art
as severely as Flaubert kept the young
Maupassant. And The Man of Property,
that first volume, was something of a
masterpiece... .In his later books about the
Forsytes. Galsworthy never quite reached
that level. He seemed to be exploiting
people’s interest in characters already
created, playing with them, adding a white
lock here and a wrinkle there And lately
Galsworthy has become more flimsy still.
Brittle young people who don’t seem
10 have an idea in their heads except to
keep jazzing at a post-war pace, and a
doting old author with a paternal smile
panting to keep up to them.
Something like that, one recalls, hap-
pened to Steele Rudd: “exploiting
. .ople’s interest in characters already
ceated, playing with them.” And if the
name of this Australian author, so re-
mote in other respects from Galsworthy,
comes into mind and demands a place
n the conversation, one can turn to
Nettie Palmer’s report on the visit to
Melbourne of Professor Gustav Hubener,
of the University of Bonn, and find a
word or two on Steele Rudd as stimulat-
ing and tis penetrating as the analysis of
the English novelists. And if it was Pro-
lessor Hubener who made the observa-
tions; it is Nettie Palmer who has thought
them worth preserving; —
Hubener didn’t want to speak on Ger-
many : he wanted to discuss Australian
writing. His interest in it was surprisingly
astute. He seized on Steele Rudd, for
instance; wasn t there a folk-impulse behind
ms work, with its comic types and its earthy
humor? And this pilgrimage on Saturday
to place a plaque on the spot where Joseph
rurpny was born—didn’t it show a wide-
s P r^ a d appreciation of the significance of
such a writer? Wasn't there evidence, too,
of a national literary instinct in the popu-
larity of such a delicate story-writer as
Lawson?
This relish of any writing that has come
directly out of the life of the country is
curious in so academic a man. He is
definite about the importance of Steele
Kudd—-sees Dad as an immense creation of
the folk-mind, as much a part of the
country s legend as the Man from Snowy
River. Inevitably he’s a little out in his
notions of how widely the Australian
imagination has been fertilised by such
figures. He s much too ready to believe
in a culture that’s securely planted, growing
from the roots up. But how many pro-
fessors—home or foreign—woulcT have let
the fastidious tentacles of their minds probe
into the subject at all?
Enough has been quoted from Fourteen
Years to indicate its value and its range
as an exploration in search of critical
values. The book is a selection from
Nettie Palmer’s journal, covering the years
1925-39. There have been few makers
of diaries so merciful as Nettie Palmer,
for she skips from, say, April 15, 1929, to
30, 1929, in a single leap; and
though one fears she may have omitted
some interesting writing, in principle at
any rate the publication of only what is
really worth preserving is admirable. In
effect, she does the reader’s skipping for
him; and everything that remains is cer-
tainly worth publishing.
The writing, though not colloquial,
flows along like good conversation, easily,
simply, naturally ; and is therefore admir-
able. The criticisms -of literature —
though Nettie Palmer is too hard on
Edward Dyson, who is due for a revival
rather than a knock on the head—are
in general remarkably sound. There is a
particularly interesting appreciation of
the early novels of Katharine Susannah
Prichard. *
Then, mingled with the criticisms, there
is« the informative part of the conversa-
tion. Most people who care for Aus-
tralian literature —and for the contem-
porary novel at its best —are interested
in Christina Stead. Few people, because
she lives abroad, know much about her
personality. Nettie Palmer has met her
in Paris, and in the Luxembourg Gardens
Christina Stead has talked to her about
hats:
“ 1 was determined to make enough
money some day to have the right clothes.
1 must admit that I’ve got rather a weak-
ness for shoes. And gloves. Yes, and hats.
I buy my hats in London, but it does seem
a pity not to be able to take one back
from Paris now. It’s not the best part of
the season, though; it’s too late. You see,
in Paris when hats come in at the begin-
ning of the season you don’t think of
buying those. Hats in the first wave are
bound to be exaggerated, put out to attract
people who are bound to be caught by
anything showy. You just wait till the
first wave’s over and then the good hats
appear—the serious ones ; you simply must
have one of those. Yes, of course there’s
a third wave later in the season, as now;
it consists partly of failures, rather cheap.
It’s not safe to buy one of them, but it’s
not at all safe to buy from the first wave,
cither.” —All this carefully-adjusted wis-
dom uttered by this lightly-elegant young
woman in a voice of homely realism; a
voice without accent but slightly colored
by her recent pan-Eufbpean years.
As Vance Palmer’s wife, and in her
own right as a practitioner and patron
of Australian letters, Nettie Palmer has
always been in close contact with the
movement of culture in this country ; and
visits and correspondence have kept her
in touch with writers in England and
Europe. In Australia she talks about
Furnley Maurice (telling Louis Esson that
what the Australian theatre needs is not
a chucker-out but a chucker-in) ; William
Baylebridge (making her an offer of
financial support when, mistakenly, he
thought she was in need of it; an incident
which, -like the establishing of the Grace
Leven Prize, is almost enough to make
one forgive Baylebridge his poetry);
Randolph Bedford (talking so much
better than he wrote); Shaw Neilson
(being ignored by Masefield at a recep-
tion —almost the only touch of asperity
among the recollections); ' Bernard
O’Dowd, Hugh McCrae, Robert D.
Fitz Gerald, Eileen Duggan, A. G.
Stephens, Leonard Mann, Frank Dalby
Davison, Marjorie Barnard, Flora Elder-
shaw. Miles Franklin, Alan Marshall . . .
concluding with a portrait of that fine
artist of the theatre, Doha Ribush.
Abroad there are Orage of the “New
Age” ; Katherine Mansfield ; Ezra Pound
(“queerly shy and unassuming in spite of
his belligerence in print”); Wyndham
Lewis; Will Dyson; Ruby Lindsay
(“Surely one of the most genecous,
radiant and beautiful women who ever
walked the earth”); Havelock Ellis;
much about Ruth Fitter, for whose
poetry Nettie Palmer has always had a
special affection ; Sylvia Beach, who pub-
lished Ulysses in Paris; the artist
Colin Colahan; several meetings with
Henry Handel Richardson ; and • Lion
Feuchtwanger telling how his books
are written and sold;
“I write, as I think, in German; but
chapter by chapter as I write, copies are
sent to translators in, perhaps, eight lan-
guages. So when I have finished the book
the translators have only the lasL. chapter
to handle. I assure you it goes very
smoothly. The only exception is when I
have to make some changes in an early
chapter: then I am really sorry for my
secretary, who has to notify all the trans-
lators, But I try to avoid that sort of
thing, once I have begun seriously on a
book.” —What a picture of literary and
secretarial activity he called up, this alert
little man whose books are published simul-
taneously in every country but his own!
Surely book-making on this scale has never
been carried on before? Tolstoy spent
more than five years on War and Peace,
Flaubert even longer on Madame Bovary,
and they were not translated into other
languages until long after they were written.
Well, that is what Nettie Palmer’s con-
versation is like.' It is knowledgeable,
based on a wide acquaintance with the
great books of the ages ; it covers prac-
tically everything of significance in Aus-
tralian and New Zealand writing in the
period of the" book; it is sensitive in re-
sponse, sound in judgment, pleasant in
tone ; it says enough and never too much ;
it is valuable in its own right as a piece
of critical writing; it is important be-
cause some of the people it deals with
are immortals; and, in the midst of its
literary concerns, it gives a captivating
picture of life on an island in the Barrier
Reef.
The present reviewer enjoyed every
minute of it and, while pleased to see a
handsome and durable book, regrets only
that it has been printed in a limited
edition. Surely, barbarous though we
are in the mass, there are more than 500
readers in Australia for a book so rich
and so intelligent?
Now his artificial public has left him and
as yet there is no young, eager public dis-
covering him again for themselves. When
they do come across him by accident, these
young people, they shy away. For them,
Conrad is someone who had no explicit
social-critical content, no required jargon
about ideologies at all. A rhetorical writer,
with a belief in the individual and in un-
questioning standards of honor and loyalty;
abstract virtues, and beneath these a whole
dark unconscious world that he saw fit
to indicate and then treat only with respect
and silence. Leave such jungles to Joyce
and others; more significant drama for him
lay in those jungles of the Congo where
isolated meh were trying to hold on to their
integrity.
Finglefon and Bradman.
Mr. Fingleton, take block. Did you not,
sir, some little time back, stir up a rous-
ing controversy with your Cricket
Crisis? Did you not therein encourage
cricket enthusiasts to wallow anew in
their emotions of the near-forgotten body-
line days? Did you not also thoroughly
antagonise the legion admirers of the
immortal Bradman? Have you not since
then realised that readers were fairly
itching to be aroused afresh by your views
on Bradman’s first post-war invasion of
England? And, sir, we ask you can-
didly, have you not, to meet that demand,
rather hastily slapped together a volume
from your notes of the tour and given it
the guaranteed provocative title Brightly
Fades the Don ? Be off with you, sir, to
the pavilion.
Nay, pause, sir. We will give you an-
other chance. Brightly Fades the Don
(Collins), whatever its faults, is a volume
which must find a place in anything pro-
fessing to be a cricket library. For the
statistician it embodies all the necessary
figures. For the historian it gives a com-
petent coverage of the tour as a whole,
and a thoroughly detailed description of
the five Tests.
For the scientific student of the game
there is abundant careful observation of
tactics and mechanics, plus thoughtful dis-
section and criticism of the same by one
qualified to do so. For the general lover
of the game there are all these inter-
larded with a fair sprinkling of bright and
pleasant cricketing anecdotes. For those
(and they are many) whose interest in
cricket begins and ends with Bradman
there is enough criticism by Fingleton
and others to anger and more than ample
high praise to mollify.
As a piece of literature. Brightly Fades
the Don irresistibly invites comparison
with the New Look fashion in feminine
frippery— too much length, wastage of
material, and a good deal of padding, but,
witfyal, at times, decidedly attractive.
The excessive length is not in the book
as a whole—it is a modestly slender
volume of 277 pages ; but in overlong
dwelling on some points. In the lack of
personal, off-the-field pen-pictures of
most of the players one feels that an
observer who travelled with the team
throughout the tour has surely wasted
material which must have come his way.
The padding, apart from such a palpable
example as quoting verbatim 177 words
of a memorial inscription observed on the
walls of Worcester Cathedral and having
no bearing whatever on cricket,- lies
mainly in the incessant repetition of one
or two matters which seem something of
an obsession with the author.
Probably Fingletoq, the journalist is
primarily to blame for the shortcomings
of Fingleton the author. In writing
daily dispatches for the Press it may be
permissible, understandable and even ex-
cusable to repeat once or twice a week
one’s observation that English cricket-
grounds are not up to the mark. But a
like repetition within the span of a book
tends to pall more than somewhat.
On page 72 Fingleton notes that “Just
before the Australians began their first
game of the tour at Lord’s the gates were
closed. There seemed to be more people
outside the. ground than in,” On page 107
he begins to worry about this in describing
the second Test at Lord’s. “ the
queues outside were terrific. It was
obvious there were more people who
would be unable to get in than there
were inside, and so it proved.”
By page 139, on to Old Trafford, the
author is becoming morose about the
business. all those travelling and
enthusiastic thousands who came in-
numerable miles only to see the gates
barred against them. This, happening
in all Tests, was the saddest occurrence
of the season.”
Thereafter at intervals it is “Queues
of tortuous length wound up and down
the side-streets, and as one entered the
ground it was obvious that thousands
upon thousands outside had no earthly
chance of admission [p. 150] At
eleven the gates were closed. This was in-
evitable but sad as thousands outside
were queued up and down the'street [p,
168],.. . The truth was of course that yet
another English ground was incapable
of holding the inordinately large crowds
which wished to see Test cricket [p. 170].
.... One of the saddest sights I have ever
seen was that outside Headingly in 1948,
when thousands and thousands, patiently
queued-up and -down innumerable side-
streets, were locked out from a lovely
day’s cricket.”
Fingleton’s prime bete noire, however,
is the cricket ball which leaves the
bowler’s hand a trifle later than it
should, hits the pitch a trifle nearer to
halfway than it should and bounces to
the utter confusion of any self-respecting
batsman of normal height. Fingleton has
an obsession about “bouncers.”
Having devoted one book ( Cricket
Crisis ) almost entirely to the ill-famed
bodyline tour, he proceeds in Brightly
Fades the Don to depict the recent tour
of England as something of a Bikini to
the earlier Hiroshima ; and the blame he
lays not so much on the pilots as on the
air-officer commanding—Bradman, Suf-
fice to say that Fingleton dwells over-
long on the subject.
Pretty well outweighing these faults of
daily-journalistic repetition is Fingle-
ton’s free, breezy style of narrative. In-
cidents are made to stand out vividly. The
incredible sixer which Miller hit with one
hand at Swansea—that and other notable
strokes played and balls bowled; -the
moving descriptions of scenes which
marked Bradman’s departing the cricket
stage; the equally moving pen-picture ol
one long departed the same stage—Lar-
wood living in an utterly monastic se-
clusion from cricket, not indulging him-
self even in a spectator’s interest. All
excellent stuff.
On the pros and cons of Bradman as
dealt with by Fingleton and others whom
he quotes, the present reviewer prefers
to make no comment other than to point
out that virtually every disparagement of
Bradman, both in this book and else-
where, has come from ex-players now
turned press- or radio-critic ; and as men-
tioned repeatedly in the present book,
Bradman, in his capacity as Test cap-
tain, had very little time for the Press.
R. G. Menzies, as quoted in Brightly
Fades the Don, says all that it was neces-
sary to say in a book professing to hail
Bradman’s retirement from cricket:
“He is, of course, not without' his
critics; he has succeeded too gigantically to
escape them. He has his faults, no doubt,
but they are merely the defects inherent in
those positive qualities which have given
him his pre-eminence. As a pavilion lover
of the greatest of all games, I have balanced
up the Bradman Account, and hereby
acknowledge that as long as memory lasts
I shall owe him that which I can never
repay.”
So do we all.
A Kershory Glance,
If Gerald Kersh makes us think of
Edgar Wallace, the reason must be the
breadth of their appeal. In the “Sanders”
and “Admirable Cardew” stories Wallace
showed far more ingenuity and invention
than Kersh may ever have; Wallace
created people better than Kersh does;
but Kersh observes people better than
Wallace did. Wallace’s women were
never allowed out of the shop window;
Kersh’s women are pretty well the ordi-
nary creatures we see about us . . . But
both of them have a certain rich and
genial pleasure in human beings, and es-
pecially in Cockney human beings.
Maybe Wallace leaves more of the im-
pression that life is worth living than
Kersh does.
Clock Without Hands (Heinemann),
Mr. Kerslj’s new book, is three novelettes.
The title story, about a little man who
couldn’t get people to believe he had
done a murder, introduces us to a won-
derful commercial traveller ; the compul-
sive, powerful urger who pushes people
around, talks them down, takes over their
homes, and gets off with girls ; the kind
everyone knows and will delight in seeing
murdered; and there is a fine portrait of
Baby, a London barmaid.
In “Flight to the World’s End,” the
hero is a boy from an orphanage who de-
livers at the country cottage of a cele-
brated poet a handbill inviting all and
sundry to a village concert. The poet and
his wife make much of the boy, but some
days later, when the orphanage pro-
prietor arrives especially to solicit their
attendance, they excuse themselves by
saying that they had seen no handbill, and
consequently had not heard of the con-
cert in time.
The orphanage proprietor goes back
and beats the boy for not delivering his
handbills, and for lyingly protesting that
he had ; the boy escapes, but the poet and
his wife betray him back to the orphan-
age—the final impatience of the poet’s
wife with the boy, and the pathos of the
boy’s reflections upon these matters, are
very deftly handled.
“Fairy Gold” is an ingenious extrava-
ganza in which a practical joker forges a
solicitor’s letter to a fel,lo\v-clerk advis-
ing him that he (the fellow-clerk) has
inherited a fortune. The young clerk
and his wife act upon this information
during a long week-end-—it is an essay in
the old theory that a man who can com-
mand the gestures and poise of success
can often carry off success itself; and
there is an amusing account of the adven-
tures of a cheque during a weekend
which suggests that Mr. Kersh has oeen
reading Douglas-Social-Credit literature.


’TRUTH Min advertising
ITHOif HORDERNS
.
fi-
'eim&m
■
■X
mmm
m
ic-v; ■
ft:.' :
I
■i
;
u as
mx
mm
j New Era ||
' I
M
I
■ «k
I I COTTON V»
* - —-> m-i ram
* / •iw 1 r-i
Wfamrntnmm,,. © m m
i la
.vVsf
Sash's/** ■ af* s ,f' ■•■
„ £ '.V;T J
fl p ' B * «
& o*
BABY
POWDER
V.
!y >
I BABY
?S:
®Vy Nj
*O7S*
BABV^TQ| LET
SOAP
TVMSO*. £
7
L_^
(T^o^
»ABV
I
Oil
o»
S£B!
'SMf
j
Order your Chemistry
ABOVE
A well equipped maternity kit comprising
2 combine dressing rolls, 1 lb. cotton wool,
Tek tooth brush, 2 Johnson’s»Baby Powder,
baby soap, 1 baby oil, baby cream, bottle
Dettol, 31/6.
with confidence when mail ordering
m
LEFT
Protect your
hands with heavy
weight rubber
gloves. Sizes
8,9, 10, 4/6 pair.
ref
LEFT
Unique North
British Hot Water
Bottles, 8 x 10,
18/11; 8 x 12.21/-;
10 x 12, 22/6.
mm
mm
LEFT
Kleinert’s rubber
protective sleeves
in blue, pink,
green, lemon
or white, 5/3 pair.
.... r
m
fuaW
piap^
s
Mggnium
LEFT
High grade Ingram’s Sterilendum
enema, with glass hygienic fittings,
price 11/6.
English tested Zeal thermometer, 4/6.
Imported nursery sponges, 2/- and 3/6.
UNILLUSTRATED
Waterproof sheeting, 15/6 per yard.
Quality rubber whirling spray, 26/9
A. —Red Chain gauze in
hygienic packet. 1 ft. x 6ft.
Price 3/3.
B. —ldeal for home use and
nursing mothers, combine
dressing rolls, 7/-.
C. —Johnson and Johnson’s
Red Chain Cotton Wool,
6/9 lb.
Co M6i
CO tv.
DftfcSSiNG
s
■!
l
IV.:
it .. '
. tN
:
English air cushion made with an eye to
comfort. For bed patients and convales-
cents. 18in., 25/-; 20in., 30/-.
CHEMISTRY DEPARTMENT, GROUND FLOOR. PITT STREET.' ’PHONE M 2401, BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


The Bulletin
Vol. 70 —No. 3625
Wednesday, August 3, 1949
OPERATION OPENCUT.
“Forward, men—but no rushing."


Tthe Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney:
Box 2521; ’Phone. 8U5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia ; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
BANK-GRAB JUDGMENT.
If Canberra keeps a soothsayer, he
must have warned its Caesar to beware
the first week of August. For the third
year in succession this season has brought
defeat by the courts of his efforts to begin
socialising Australian industry by sup-
pressing free banking. In 1947 it saw
the High Court declare invalid a vital
clause of his 1945 Bank Act, whereunder
local-government banking with the trad-
ing banks was made an offence; there-
upon Mr, Chifley instantly announced
preparation of a bill to absorb the banks
completely. In August, 1948, the High
Court threw out that measure. Near this
year’s anniversary of these events the
Privy Council, by confirming the High
Court’s decision, has at last cleared the
way for judgment in the cause by the
Australian people. The series of reverses
for Socialism really began in August,
1944, when the Powers Referendum was
overwhelmingly rejected by the people.
Till the text of the Privy Council judg-
ment is made known in October Mr.
Chifley, it is represented by “circles close
to him,” will not know what to do. With
the aid of his calamitous Attorney-
General, he is accredited with a scheme
for downing the trading banks by an-
other trick out of the 1945 Act. But the
trouble is that these mimicking totali-
tarians can’t be sure thht the Privy
Council’s pronouncement on Section 92
won’t balk them there also. Before that
tribunal Dr. Evatt put his Government’s
stake on Section 92 as high as it could
be, saying that an adverse interpretation
might invalidate many Commonwealth
Acts, Certainly the going might be hard
for the 1945 Bank Act and a lot of
coercive restrictions and controls, statu-
tory or under regulation, on which this
Government’s operations depend.
It will be near election-time before the
text of judgment is known ; meanwhile
the baffled Socialists in Canberra would
in prudence be well advised to assume
that the worst has happened—that the
Privy Council has turned thumbs down
on the Bank Grab Act partly, perhaps,
on the ground that it exceeds Federal
powers in respect to banking, but more
likely on the ground that it contravenes
Section 92 of the Constitution requiring
that trade, commerce and intercourse
among the States shall be “absolutely
free.” Both sides made the interpretation
of Section 92 the essence of their argu-
ment ; that, indeed, was the central
feature of the High Court’s judgment on
which the Commonwealth appealed.
Before the Privy Council the banks’
advocates particularly strove to make
clear the significance of “the gap” be-
tween the respective powers of the Com-
monwealth and the States —an area out-
side both their spheres of sovereignty
discovered by painful process of law as
interpreted in a series of cases by the
High Court and occasionally by the
Privy Council itself. That “gap” exists
by virtue of the modern ruling that
Section 92 binds both Commonwealth
and States. Any reduction of, or
intrusion upon, this gap desired by a
Commonwealth Government can be
effected only by the electors at a refer-
endum as provided in the Constitution.
From the layman’s point of view the
effect of this interpretation of Section 92
by the courts is to say that this socialisa-
tion question is a political and not a legal
issue, and that only the electors can de-
cide it. Which is precisely what the
Opposition parties, die Press and wide-
spread public meetings at the height of
the debate on the Bank Grab legislation
last year insisted vehemently and
unanimously. It must now go to the
popular vote, whether Mr. Chifley tries
still to dodge it or not. The only way
by which he will be able to retain any
initiative at the coming elections is to
announce forthwith that he will stand or
faff by the electors’ verdict on the ques-
tion of bank nationalisation.
He will, of course, still be subjected to
a diet of his own words. Two years ago
he repeatedly refused either to confess
that he fooled the electors in 1946 or to
take a referendum then and there, since
he had obviously surprised and
antagonised the country. Rather than
admit he had no mandate he was pre-
pared, it seemed, to face the next elec-
tions (a long way ahead in August, 1947)
in the hope that the constituencies might
meanwhile forget that no trust could be
placed henceforth in anything he should
say in a policy speech. In the weakest
retort a Government leader has ever made
to a censure motion in Parliament, he
protested that, whatever the electors might
have understood ''from his policy speech
of 1946, he had one mandate for destroy-
ing the banks “40 years old” under the
Constitution (because that gave the Com-
monwealth Government power to legis-
late with respect to banking), and another
for socialisation of all industry since the
days of the changed A.L.P. platform in
1921, The socialisation of banking was
not his policy, he told Parliament, but
that of the “Labor” party; and he was
only the party’s servant.
That was not what he had said at the
1946 elections. Then he took pride in his
enactment of the Banking Act of 1945,
in which, as Mr. Menzies told him, the
trading banks were “treated as an in-
tegral and continuing element in the’
banking system.” Having recited that,
Mr. Chifley told the electors:
The Government’s banking legislation [of
1945] has been designed to adapt the
banking system to present-day conditions,
and to provide the Commonwealth Bank,
as Australia’s central bank, with adequate
powers to serve the national interest.
Not to destroy the banking system! Not
to create a monopoly over banking in a
Commonwealth Bank subject to political
control through the Treasurer! Not a
word about extinguishing the trading
banks as a first step towards “socialisa-
tion of all industry, production, distri-
bution and exchange,” as laid down in the
A.L.P. objective!
Mr. Chifley had good reason for con-
cealing this dagger in his belt. Mr.
Curtin’s experience had already shown
that to reveal it would court election
disaster. When “Labor” faced the 1936
elections with a programme which in-
cluded “direction and control of credit
resources and banking” it was heavily
defeated. Another defeat was registered
in 1940. At Mr. Curtin’s third
(and successful) effort, in 1943, he
was required to give, and did give, a
specific assurance that during the life of
the coming Parliament he would not, if
elected, introduce any measure of socia-
lisation.
Mr. Chifley worked a trick in 1946.
He will not be able to do it again. Apart
from the consideration that, after the
Privy Council decision, he will have to
abandon socialisation of banking unless
this time he receives an express mandate,
he is committed by the party’s recent
resolution to nail the socialisation flag to
the party’s masthead. Last October the
Federal A.L.P. special, conference de-
bated a proposal from'an unhappy sec-
tion of “the movement” that the socialisa-
tion policy should be watered down to
cover only certain clearly specified
utilities or services. The majority decided
that they might as well be hanged for a
sheep as a lamb, and reaffirmed the full
Red revolutionary platform. Mr. Chifley
publicly approved the stand, saying:
“This is not a movement to be shifted by
a puff of wind that blows here or there.”
The Chifley-Evatt combination may
pretend that their love must wait on the
text of the Privy Council’s judgment. But
the supreme issue for the elections has
now fixed itself. Those Communist
fellow-travellers with whom Mr. Chifley
has been conducting a half-hearted
quarrel on the coalfields will be voting
with him on the Bank Grab matter, for
did not Lenin himself define the tech-
nique of the revolutionary process? This
is from Lenin’s address to the Bolshevik
congress in 1917, just four years before
the A.L.P. accepted its Red Objective
and the Soviet example:
The fundamental first step must be such
measures as the nationalisation of the
banks We cannot at once nationalise the
small consumers’ concerns But the role
of these small men can be made small to
the vanishing-point, and through the
nationalisation of the banks they can be
tied hand and foot.
And now, after three years of political
humbug, and about as much respect for
an electoral mandate as an average dic-
tator in Guatemala —stand up. Mr.
Chifley!
1940—and Now.
One of Mr. Chifley’s admirers has been
informing the denizens of New Zealand
—where they have beeft publicly
tearing the trousers off anti-conscrip-
tionists —that Mr, Chifley and his
Ministry have “gained in stature” as a
result of their methods of dealing with
the coal strike, that Ministers believe
“the Prime Minister’s firmness will rally
many doubtful voters to the Govern-
ment,” and that “the honors are shared
by Dr. Evatt, who as Attorney-General
took the reins quickly after his long spell
overseas,” He reports that Labor men
are said to regard Mr. Chifley as having
won a “major personal triumph,” and
“emerged with flying colors from the first
real test of his leadership under fire.” His
“build-up as a strong man,” it seems,
“has been vindicated and his position in
the party strengthened.”
Against these (and Sydney “Tele-
graph”) views the facts speak for them-
selves. The hour of Mr. Chifley’s test-
ing came when Parliament was about to
close and he closed it hurriedly, but with
a pretence of taking some measures to
“deal with the situation.”
He was attacked on an adjournment
motion brought down by Mr. Menzies
which became the subject of the usual
breathless two hours’ debate. Cornered
by the Leader of the Opposition, the
Prime Minister sneered that “Mr.
Menzies when Prime Minister in 1940
found himself as ineffectual to get the
miners to work as anybody else.” But
in 1940 Mr. Menzies had a dis-
advantage which the present Gov-
ernments of the Commonwealth and
New South Wales do not suffer —
of having the Federal and State Opposi-
tion parties fighting on the side of the
Communist-led strikers.
When the 1940 Communist-led strike
began on the verge of Hitler’s
advance against Western Europe, follow-
ing an equally curious railway strike at
Broken Hill, Mr. Baddele’y, on behalf of
his leader, gave the Central Council of the
Miners’ Federation an assurance that the
“Labor party would do everything pos-
sible to assist the miners’ unions.”
Before Mr. Chifley brought down his
legislation freezing strike-assistance funds
last month he gave the unions a full 24
hours’ notice, which enabled them to
secure the money they needed and to
stack it away out of reach of the Govern-
ment. The Arbitration Court has re-
acted sternly, and some of the offenders
who deliberately disobeyed its orders
and the opinion of their own members are
now in Long Bay deeply outraged that
“we are treated like criminals in this jail”
and “resenting it bitterly.”
The fact that they are in jail has nothing
to do with Mr. Chifley. It is a punish-
ment which has been awarded for con-
tempt, and has arisen from the initiative
of the court, which apparently has less
taste for being defied than the Labor
Governments.
Not one measure available under the
National Emergency (Coal Strike) Act has
been used to punish the ruffians who have
openly flouted it. The Government has sat
day after day in consultation with ex-
Communist leaders who are its union
advisers and issued statements and
threats while old people died, women and
children suffered illness, tens of thousands
were without the work and on the bread-
line and tens of millions of pounds were
being lost in production.
Mr. Chifley will probably seek to
escape responsibility for it all; but since
he and Mr. McGirr have elected to
huddle together for courage and warmth
and sign statements which are issued
jointly, he must take his full share of the
blame for the wicked condition of affairs.
When the matter of the strike was de-
bated in the House of Representatives and
the N. S. Wales Legislative Assembly on
June 28, both Mr. Menzies and Mr.
Treatt, the Opposition-leaders,' pointed
the way to a solution of the difficulties
facing the country. Mr. Menzies said
that “in three shifts a day for seven days
a week on emergency production from
opencut mines, there was no doubt coal
production could be upward of 120,000
tons a week.”
To this Mr. Chifley replied, in his
typical hang-dog fashion on such
occasions, that there were difficulties
about the opencut because “the men
employed would be members of a number
of different unions, some with members
involved in the strike,”, and that the
“problem of obtaining coal has never
been solved in any country in the world
when miners refuse to work.”
Mr. Baddeley went further. He de-
clared that to begin opencut mining
would “set public opinion against the
Government” and “might result in risk to
the lives of miners.” He said that he had
“inspected Maitland Extended and other
mines, and was shocked to find that water
had penetrated in a mine from a near-by
opencut,” and had given instructions that
work must cease on the opencut.
Notwithstanding this, the Common-
wealth and State Governments belatedly
agreed to use the Army (not the A.W.U.)
to work opencuts this week, provided the
strike wasn’t finished. But they did not
take this step till they thought it would
be unnecessary.
Senator Ashley, on July 27, a month
after Mr. Menzies’s solution had been
pooh-poohed in both Federal and N. S.
Wales Parliaments, and rejected especi-
ally by Mr. McGirr’s “expert” Minister,
Mr. Baddeley, endorsed the Opposition
viewpoint. The total coal mined from
opencuts in N. S. Wales could be more
than 100,000 tons per week, he said, and
enough machinery was now available to
work three shifts a day seven days a
week at all opencuts. It is natural to
ask why, as Minister for Shipping and
Fuel, he didn’t know this in June,
The Government has never had any
intention of continuing opencut mining,
or even of beginning it if the strike had
ended in time. It contemplated no
measures to assure that, when the men
returned to work unpunished after the
Communist union-leaders spent the union
money which they lawlessly obtained,
these people should be compelled to keep
the industrial peace.
When the strikers go back tens of
thousands of innocent workers will re-
main unemployed, and illness and cold
will continue for a long time throughout
the population; but the. coalminers will
begin to draw their inflated wages for
inadequate work from the day the strike
finishes —in fact, will be able to make up
a good deal of leeway if they feel inclined
to speed-up production a little.
The two miserable, shivering things
which call themselves Governments in
Canberra and Sydney do not intend
to build up coal stocks which will assure
that the country cannot again be black-
mailed to the point of ruin at the sweet
will of the agents of a hostile foreign
Power. They will not, in fact, do any-
thing which in Mr. Baddeley’s phrase is
calculated to “offend public opinion”—
that is, the opinipn of the leaders of the
big Communist unions.
If they did they would find themselves
fighting the Federal election almost with-
out funds. For the big Communist unions
form the bulk of the solid core of the
“Labor” party. Without them Mr.
Chifley’s fighting coffers would be empty.
He is not a leader. He is as much a
captive as his political allies in Long Bay
jail. And he has to consider another
factor. He may be defeated at the forth-
coming election, and, if he is, he natur-
ally will not want to have any positive
acts in his record which will embarrass
him and his party in returning to the tech-
nique of 1940-41, under which, in Opposi-
tion, they combined with “Leftist” leaders
to support industrial strife to such an
extent as to make it impossible for a
Liberal Government to carry on effec-
tively.
The Red Tie That Binds.
:
From London:
A year ago 20,000 dockers out of 26,000
came out on strike because a gang of 11 men,
seeking extra pay for handling a “dirty” cargo,
was suspended at the fourth time of appeal.
Last April Dick Barrett, Communist leader of
the Stevedores’ Union, led 15,000 men out
over the dismissal of 32 aged, sick or ineffective
men. Then the 8000 who recently struck
over the refusal to work two Canadian ships
involved in a sordid, Communist-sponsored
dispute grew in three weeks to 15,000.
A year ago the strikers responded to the
Prime Minister’s broadcast appeal. In April,
Barrett, after his interview with the Minister
of Labor, saw the red light and hurriedly led
the men back to work. In the latest strike the
Government falteringly brandished the big stick
of Emergency Regulations with a shaky wrist;
but it was not until a mass vote of strikers
was arranged that a resumption of work was
decided upon.
Only the Communists are crowing. They
can scarcely have had an easier or more effort-
less campaign in which to try their strength
and to demonstrate the power of an astute few
over a considerable sheep-like mass of dis-
gruntled “workers.” The dockers know that
they are being exploited by the Communists,
and, in present-day slang, “couldn’t care less.”
Their own petty dissatisfaction is all.
This single consideration alone gives cause
for deep thinking by both Government and
private citizens. Already some sections of the
Press are calling for penalty measures as a
necessary complement to cradle-to-grave
security, and for action to be taken against the
subversive. For it is becoming increasingly
plain that the conducting of these industrial
disruptions is no haphazard or inconsequential
affair. There is evidence of a carefully-
worked-out directive, of a sensitive Communist
finger on the pulse of the easily-led, and of
the tendency on the part of Communist leaders
to ‘call a halt when their immediate object has
been attained.
Perhaps for the first time in post-war years
the world-wide conspiracy behind this internal
disruption has been thrown into relief. Canadian
seamen and British dockers and Australian
miners are seen to have a common denominator
distressfully remote from Empire ties. It is still
hard in London to believe that Australians, in
peace-time and mid-winter, are suffering greater
inconvenience than most Londoners did during
the blitz, if the terror and physical effect of
bombing are excluded.
The full realisation of this circumstance
springs from the overlap of the two strikes
and the relentless purpose behind them. At
least we are beginning to know what kind of a
world we are living in and to appreciate that
geographical situation may be even less of a
deterrent to the men in the Kremlin than it
was to the Nazis. If the community is to
save itself from disruption, that consciousness
should go a long way towards effective action.


PLAIN ENGLISH
An End to This Temporising!
There never was any valid hope that the
Federal Government would get this strike
called off while it trusted to “negotia-
tions” for a settlement by the A.C.T.U.
with the Mining Unions Council. The
A.C.T.U. leaders have been running along
with Communist union bosses for too
long to give their intervention the face
of anything but appeasement. With the
renewed refusal of the miners to listen
to the offer of terms which still would
have given away far too much, A.C.T.U.
president Clarey is “profoundly disap-
pointed.”
He has failed to roll back the
course of events which is slowly but
surely bringing in the A.W.U. to get
opencut coal in N.S.W. The strike is now
in its sixth week, and the Chifley-McGirr
set-up has got to take offensive measures
against it and get coal. Mr. Chifley’s
duty is:
To call Parliament together at once and
pass any legislation necessary to cope with
a national state of emergency, and amend
the Crimes Act to make it apply to some-
thing more than transport services.
Thereafter to order the underground
miners back to work and arrest any leaders
who resist.
To call on the N.S.W. Government to
join him in handing over opencut coal
workings in N.S.W. to the A.W.U. and
keep the military for their proper job of
protecting all men engaged in coal-getting.
So far the only Government to pro-
claim a state of emergency is the Holl-
way Ministry in Victoria. Last week
Mr. Hollway prepared for action against
the Wonthaggi miners a«d the Seamen’s
Union by extending for one month,’ and
over the whole of Victoria, the state of
emergency proclaimed over the metro-
politan area to cover the handling of
coal lying since February in the holds
of the Haligonian Duke. This further
action arose from the appearance in
Melbourne of a second coal ship from
overseas which Communist Bird of the
local seamen promptly declared black,
thereby denying the ship the services of
the tug detailed to bring her into berth.
Bird’s order tied up all tugs in Mel-
bourne last Thursday and brought on a
24-hours’ stop-work meeting. So far the
Communist boss could go without defy-
ing the court award under which the
union functions. The meeting produced
a noisy demonstration in the streets, but
no motion from the Communists for a
strike; Hollway was waiting with his
Essential Services Act counter-weapon,
and the Communists funked it. Hollway
also ordered the Wonthaggi miners back
to work, but gave them a few days’ grace
while any chance remained that the
miners’ executive would agree to aggre-
gate meetings. That hope, if it ever
really existed, was removed when, on
Saturday, the mining unions’ council.
which the miners’ executive controls, re-
fused and voted for continuing the strike.
The Hollway Essential Services Act,
pioneer of the course now indicated to
the Chifley-McGirr joint coal-managing
Governments in New South Wales, is the
nearest thing seen in Australia to the
Taft-Hartley Labor Relations Act in the
United States. It gives the Victorian
Government power to control or operate
any service in emergency, to direct men
to work, to require a secret ballot held
by the State Electoral Officer before any
stoppage (a “cooling-off” period) and pro-
vides for fines of up to £lOOO against any
union officer and £5O against any other
person taking part in any strike contra-
vening the Act. Molestation by pickets
is punishable by fine up to £5O.
If Mr. Chifley’s political “principles” or
personal predilections restrain him from
translating into action his lately-
announced “boots-and-all” resolution—
if, despite the spread of full unemploy-
ment throughout Australia, he still be-
lieves in letting the strike end itself in
general chaos —then his proper course is
to call the Governor-General home from
his New Guinea trip and resign office.
There has been enough of Socialist tem-
porising with what Mr. Chifley has him-
self called the sabotage of Australian in-
dustry by a gang of traitors serving the
malignant interests of a foreign Power.
Why Should They Starve?
Sydney people 'have been accused of a
lot of things, but nobody can question
their generosity and sympathy when told
of others’ troubles. Before the coal strike
was a fortnight old they heard from
newspapers, clergy and others of distress
in what are called the “working-class”
suburbs of Redfern, Newtown, Padding-
ton, Alexandria and so on, and at once
gifts of food, clothing and money began
to pour in. The newspapers have been
full of the pathetic gratitude of the re-
cipients, mainly mbthers of families and
old people.
Nobody would deny to children food
and clothing, nor fail to sympathise with
a mother when the family breadwinner
has lost his job through no fault of his
own and she finds the purse and the larder
empty. But there are some curious
aspects of all this distress, not the least
being the suddenness of it.
Since 1942 at least there lias been plenty
of work at good wages. (Hasn’t “Labor”
bragged about it?) Not a few
workers have enjoyed overtime pay, and
plenty have managed to work at two jobs
since the 40-hour week came ifa. Why
then are so many peoples without blankets
and clothing, or without a few pounds in
savings? Why should this be a typical
statement?
A mother of six children said: “This is
the first* time I’ve turned to charity, but
you can’t keep seeing the children go short.
We are living on soup mainly, with bread,
and some eggs now and then.”
If the husband is unemployed he’s
entitled to £2 10s. a week unemployed
relief, for five of the six children there is
another £2 10s. in child endowment. She
therefore has, or should have, £5 a week,
and, though living costs are high, a fiver
will buy a fair amount of necessities. As
for those short of blankets and clothing,
one can be pardoned for asking what they
did for these commodities before the
strike. And why should the distress be
localised in the nearer, congested suburbs?
Isn’t anyone out of work through the
strike in Auburn, Manly, Bondi, Coogee,
Epping, Bankstown, Rose Bay, Kogarah
and a hundred other places where, as a
rule, living costs are higher?
Two clergymen told “a pitiful story of
hunger in Sydney, of children crying con-
stantly for food, and mothers starving to
give it to them.” Any donor of food,
money or clothing, any taxpayer is
entitled to ask what these people have
been doing with the good money they’ve
been earning in the past seven or eight
years ; what they are doing with their un-
employed-relief and child-endowment
payments. Part of the answer seems to
lie in the statement of one of the clergy
that there are over 70 pubs in his area and
an s.p. bookie on every corner. There are
also several Government “lott’ries” every
week. The cries for relief are com-
ing from State and Federal “Labor”
electorates, and to the “Labor” Govern-
ment in Sydney booze and betting are
tender plants, to be nourished and fer-
tilised by all possible means.
"Boots and All."
The allied Socialist Governments of the
Commonwealth and N. S. Wales last week
finally committed themselves to declaring
war on the “Labor” party’s principles
against the use of troops to break a
strike.
Political mobilisation of an Australian
Army of 1300 men having been com-
pleted, Chifley and McGirr, as self-
appointed commanders-in-chief, called a
staff conference at G.H.Q, in Sydney to
draft-orders for action, “boots and all.”
This business being completed in the short
space of If hours, General McGirr issued
last Wednesday on behalf of both leaders
the following operation order to all divi-
sional commanders ahd to Press war cor-
respondents in attendance:
The Defence Services now held in readi-
ness will immediately proceed to the coal-
fields for the purpose of operating opencut
mines.
These preparations will be completed over
the week-end in order to commence pro-
duction of coal not later than next Tuesday
morning.
A dispatch-rider carrying an amended
order notifying »In our O.A. 101 for
‘mines’ read ‘workings’ ” lost his way and
has not yet arrived.
The Army was, apparently, to be
allowed four days to cover 100 miles, by
rail and m.v. transport, and then 24 hours
to settle in. The A.Q., Brig. “Fixer”
Ashley, announced in comment on his
chiefs’ orders that there would be no diffi-
culty about reinforcements —“the Army
has plenty of men.”
“S. M. Herald’s” war correspondent
added some picturesque details of the ex-
tensive movements necessitated by these
operations: —■
Advance detachments of the army have
been sent to the fields to make arrange-
ments for the main body.
Although it is expected that the move-
ment will be complete by the week-end,
the troops will not be ready immediately.
They will first have to erect tents and
toilet facilities.
A group of specialist technicians is being
flown from the rocket-range project in
Central Australia to take part in the
operation.
Small detachments of Navy and Air
Force men will work with Army troops.
Joint Coal Board experts will advise offi-
cers on technical matters when work begins.
Preparations should be ready for Army
operations by Monday, provided there is
no rain.
This was evidently too much for the
Army’s real command. Fatuous “Labor”
politicians were free to make a mess
of their own administration, but
they weren’t going to play the fool with
the Army, however green the Army might
be. It was speedily announced by Army
officials at the Casula Military Engineer-
ing School that 1050 of the force were
Army engineers who had been under-
going training; and the whole force was
on the coalfields within 24 hours of the
announcement by the comic-opera poli-
tical show in Sydney." Its speed of action
left the “Labor” bags of political wind
almost breathless.
That Railway Plan.
In Brisbane the other day a bunch of
Federal and State Ministers met under
the chairmanship of Federal Transport
Minister Ward to talk about “a com-
mon transport policy for Australia.”
Apart from the danger of this —for it
could mean an extension of the deadly
State transport-strangulation policies,
another attempt to bolster up the decrepit
Government railways at the expense of
the taxpayer and progress generally and
further interference with road and air
transport —it gave Mr. Ward an addi-
tional chance to air his great standardisa-
tion-of-gauge scheme. Not much has
been heard about this lately, Mr. Ward
being busy with other things, but much
more is likely to be heard about it as
the Federal election comes closer.
The thing first appeared as a sort of
“Labor” post-war reconstruction plan.
(Continued at foot of next page.)
IN CRITICAL MOOD.
“And another thing, Ben—l much prefer modem art."


T
h
There is
a real touch of
quality about these
CRAVENA
»-•*%/
6434 B-ft
CARRERAS LIMITED OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
Wm
4 m
■
the whole blessed continent to be laced
with 4ft. gauge railways on the
excuse of defence and development. At
first it was supposed to cost £9O mil-
lion, then the estimate was revised to
£2OO million. That was before the 40-
hour week arrived. Presently it became
plain that “Labor’s” main objects were
to have on hand a vast unemployed-
relief scheme and to set up a centralised
control of rail transport which would be
another step forward on the road to
Socialism. To this end a “Division of
Standardisation” has been set up.
A country short of coal, steel, timber,
cement and manpower had best try to
get along with its existing railways, and
new railways are hardly the thing for a
people whose trains are already losing
millions every year and who are becom-
ing converted to road and air transport.
It is too late in the transport era for any-
thing to be done about railways except
bear with the existing ones as best we
can.
But this standardisation scheme will be
in “Labor’s” election policy as surely as
those familiar misplaced aitches, and the
electors will be dazzled with pictures of
expresses tearing all over the place,
hardly stopping for engine-water or a hot
pie, and thousands of passengers lolling
in comfort as they’re carried at 90 miles
an hour or something from Mirboo
North to Milparinka, Dandenong to
Doodlakine. All under the 40-hour week,
all under the benevolence of Socialism,
all under the magical hand of Mr. Ward.
If they believe it they’ll deserve to live
on ref.-room pies and, sandwiches for
the rest of their lives.
POLITICAL POINRS
Inspired reports from Canberra have
it that Chifley will accept the Privy Coun-
cil decision as the last word on the Bank-
Grab Act and will not attempt to legis-
late further on banking. Anyone who
takes that as an assurance that the private
banking system is safe from extinction or
Australia from becoming a Socialist State
needs to do a lot more thinking. Accord-
ing to the story the Prime Minister will
announce that he will be content with the
1945 Act. That is virtually what he said
at the 1946 elections, yet before a year
had passed he had gone the whole hog
for nationalisation. Nothing he can say
between now and polling-day can alter
the fact that his dearest wish is to wipe
out private banking; nothing can allay
the suspicion that he will seek other
means of doing so. Control of the banks
is a prerequisite of socialisation of in-
dustry, to which Chifley and all “Labor”
members are pledged.
Taking the advice of the Opposition
the Chifley Government, after protesting
that it would not even consider such
things, has, belatedly and reluctantly,
frozen union funds, jailed Communist
leaders —or some of ’em —moved coal at
grass and is now using the Army to work
opencuts. In due course it can now be
expected to carry out the rest of its
critics’ programme—hand over opencut-
mining to the A.W.U. and take a secret
ballot of miners on the subject of a return
to work. But one thing it will not do —
admit that any worth-while suggestion can
ever emanate from the Opposition.
When the first batch of “Labor”
M.Ps. went to the N. S. Wales coalfields
to teach the miners the error of their
ways they stressed that the issue was
arbitration versus Communism. The
emphasis is still on arbitration, but some
A.L.P. speakers, especially those from
coalfields electorates, seem to have been
making unofficial offers to the miners,
tempting them with hints and half-
promises. A fortnight ago Booth, M.L.A.
for Kurd Kurd, told Cessnock miners
he would stake his reputation that they
would get long-service leave if they went
back to work. He may have been merely
expressing a personal opinion, but miners
could hardly be blamed if they assumed
he spoke with some behind-the-scenes
authority. On Saturday, Chalmers,
M.L.A. for Hartley, told a meet-
ing of mine-workers that if they re-
turned to work their claims would be
granted. In other words; “Go back and
preserve the form of arbitration and the
Government’ll see you get everything
you’re striking for.” Chalmers didn’t
reveal on whaf authority he made the
statement, but there has been no denial
from Chifley, Ashley or McGirr.
Speaking in the Sydney Domain on
Sunday Information Minister Calwell,
with J. A. Ferguson, former member
of the Communist party and of the Red
International Executive, described Com-
munists as “ratbags,” “human scum,”
“nitwits” and “Fascists,” and added: “If
it is left to me, into concentration camp
they will go.” He is the same Cal-
well who said, when he last appeared in
the Domain (Oct. 10, 1947), to advocate
nationalisation of the banks: “The capi-
talist system is collapsing and we are go-
ing to take over.... .We will pluck the
capitalistic fowl.”
Last week the Communist Government
of Northern China seized the United
States Consulate-General building at
Shanghai by way, apparently, of insult-
ing an “imperialist” Power, and at the
same time issued a series of conditions
under which the British were to crawl m
the mud of the Yangtsz and pay com-
pensation as a preliminary to the release
of the gallant little Royal Naval sloop
Amethyst, lying 140 miles up the river
under the Communist guns and badly
battered. Whilst the Attlee Government
was engaged in its usual Socialist dither-
ing, the captain of Amethyst, fired on
and returning the enemy fire, lifted anchor
and went off down the river. He crashed
through a boom at 22 knots, negotiated
the perilous channels without a pilot and
reached safety with only nine tons or
fuel left. He (Lieut.-Commander J. S.
Kearans) sent a signal:
Have rejoined fleet, South Woosung. No
damage or casualties. God save the Kmg.
And his Majesty immediately ordered the
splicing of the mainbrace. The tot was
well earned —Amethyst has done some-
thing which will restore Britain’s tattered
reputation in the Far East, where the
Attlees have sold out time after time.
The Constitution which has balked
the Socialists repeatedly, more especially
in their Bank Grab ambitions, has been
described by Dr. Eyatt as belonging to
a horse-and-buggy age. It also belongs
to the age of Australian statesmen —an
age. when the political adventurer and
opportunist, the beggar-on-horseback,
were not so prominent in the affairs of
government.
The Commonwealth Government is
advertising for an Administrator for
Nauru. The ad, doesn’t say so, but it
may be assumed that the rule in the
Norfolk Island case still applies—'‘no
bloody generals.”
Lang’s “Century,” which seems to keep
a pretty close watch on Information
Minister Calwell, claims that on his coal-
fields tour he spoke of “my Govern-
ment.” The “Century” feels that Arthur
is anticipating a little.
“A fifty-fifty chance” Doc. Eyatt was
reported to have given himself just be-
fore the Privy Council verdict came
through. Had he spoken earlier he’d
have been rushed; even in Canberra
odds were longer than that.
Misconstruction Minister Dedman, back
from London sans moustache, sans dol-
lars, sans everything, struck another
problem almost as soon as he got
here. Cables told him and the public
—which includes the American public —
that a young man who went to Oxford
two years aj|b on a C.S.I.R. scholarship
to study nuclear physics had taken
part in a Communist-inspired demonstra-
tion outside Australia House. Deddy
hastened to explain that Kaiser’s scholar-
ship was not a special one ; he was merely
one of “a number of promising students”
to whom scholarships had been granted.
That apparently makes a difference,
though what it is only the man from
Corio can say.
Last week Fadden asked some pertinent
questions about the International
Monetary Fund and Bank. He pointed
out that the outfit, to which Australia
had contributed the equivalent of
400,000,000 dollars in gold, Australian
currency and securities, had made loans
to Mexico for developing electrical power,
and to Brazil for telephones and hydro-
electric works, and he wanted to know
why Australia in the present dollar crisis
had not sought accommodation from the
fund for “the development of productive
resources” and “to lessen the disequili-
brium in the international balance of
payments”—two of the purposes for
which the fund was set up.
The Murray Valley Development
League somewhat joyfully announced last
week that a conference held at Swan Hill
was attended by Federal and State Parlia-
mentarians, and that the league aims to
treble the Murray Valley’s population.
It’s something like the young curate who
told the Church Ladies’ Guild, “I hope to
make good mothers of you all.”
London “Economist” says that taxes
take 40 per cent of all British incomes,
that no country in the past ever did that
and that no other country in the pre-
sent does it. Well, we’re giving it a go.
Taxes account for 35 p.c. of all Aus-
tralian incomes, and if the Socialists can
win the next election the record will be
ours.
When Premier Hanlon got back from
his N.Q. tour he told everybody that the
North was quite satisfied with his Gov-
ernment. It ought to cheer up those
N.Q. “Labor” members who are now
studying a. telegram received from the
North Queensland Development League
which runs:
Do you agree with Press statements
made by the Premier from the safety of
Brisbane following fleeting visit to three
northern towns that everything in the
northern garden lovely and no dissatisfac-
tion regarding northern neglect apparent
and that representations made by North
Queensland Development League to rectify
injustices and secure amenities and facili-
ties for north could be classed as feeble?
Perhaps they should get Mr. Hanlon to
answer it for them.
For five long weeks of idleness on the
coalfields that futile, double-facing body,
the A.C.T.U. executive, operated by
Monk and Clarey,' has been permitted
to wander all round the strike arena
trying to get its “formula for a settle-
ment” approved. It was scandalous that
the hawking of these “terms” about the
mining-union offices, terms which would
have meant little better than surrender
to the Communists, should ever have been
permitted by the joint “Labor” Govern-
ments. They have now been thrown out,
not by the A.L.P. but by the Com-
munists. It is a sign that everybody in
the A.L.P. has now got to take his coat
off to his business. So far the only party
using “boots and all” is the Communist
element.
Maitland’s disastrous flood at the end
of June, which looked like returning last
week, awakened attention again to the
urgency of dealing with the Hunter River.
Near Maitland it has jilted up more than
half of the channel it flowed through 90
years ago. The collection of dams pro-
posed on upper sources of the river would
no doubt help to harness floodwaters and
would irrigate much of the flat land
thrown up by the river’s silting. But that
is only half the problem. The steel-
works, the shipping trade and all other
industries in the Newcastle area demand
planning for the distant future which must
surely include dredging of the river as
well as action against erosion in its upper
reaches. The dreadful example is in
China, where the bed of the Yellow River,
“China’s Sorrow,” is in places eight feet
above the surrounding country.
It seems rather a pity Stafford
Cripps had to go to Switzerland for his
vegetarian-cure when he could have
stayed at home and nibbled a carrot with
Bernard Shaw. '
Sydney Trades and Labor Council
president, C. Anderson, on the Banking
Act decision:
It is inconceivable that a Government
elected by the majority of people in Aus-
tralia can be prevented from introducing
legislation without the people being afforded
the opportunity of accepting or rejecting the
legislation. Surely in a democracy the
people should determine their own welfare
rather than a judicial body which has no
relation to Australia?
Mr. Anderson has apparently forgotten
that it was the Chifley Government which,
balked by the High Court, appealed to
the Privy Council rather than to the
people. Also, that it was the Chifley Gov-
ernment which at the 1946 election re-
fused to take the people into its con-
fidence on nationalisation of banking.
And the same Government is going to
do its damnedest to dodge making it an
election issue this year.
Out of step with branches in most other
ports the Brisbane wharfies voted ior one-
day-a-week stoppages until Healy and
Roach should be released. By the week-
end there were signs that they might
change their minds. An increasing
number of rank-and-filers doubt whether
the two Comrades are worth bothering
about —especially as the new Stevedoring
Industry Board has spoken of “taking
action” if the stoppages occur.
Queensland Council of Agriculture has
discovered what a lot of people have
known for years —the loss of weight
suffered by stock on long rail trips. In
this case it’s pork, and the Q.C.A. has
worked the loss out at 700 tons a year on
the annual turn-off of 400,000 pigs. In
Hanlon’s State nobody can send pigs
more than 25 miles by road if a railway
is available —so the pigfarmers lost
£BO,OOO a year to keep the trains running.
How have the mighty fallen! A bunch
of Communists went out to East Sydney
to see Mr. Ward on Sunday —that being
the day on which he holds court. But a
force in police uniform hunted them
away. Mr. Ward was not in to his
quondam friends, so they were not able to
find out whether he still believes Russia
has made more progress in 25 years of
Communism than the capiterlist countries
have made in 250 years.
It is rather ironical that Melbourne
householders were provided with gas last
week not in spate of, but because of, a
strike, the Haligonian Duke coal being
made available by the joint efforts of the
Canadian Seamen’s Union, the Australian
Seamen’s Union and the Waterside
Workers (on the negative side) and the
Army and the Navy (on the positive). If
the four months’ ban had never been
imposed the coal would have been used
months ago ; as it was it came along just
at the peak of crisis.
Is this what some of our “intellectual”
writers and scientists would like? :
A Draft Law of the Intellectual Worker
will create a national registry for scientists,
writers, creative artists, musicians and
architects. It will establish standards and
fix quotas. Pensions and medical care will
be provided for all intellectuals who sign
the national register.
The law is not being passed in Russia or
one of the Iron Curtain countries; it is
being introduced in Peron’s Argentina, a
country whose name is anathema to
Australian Communists and “intellectual”
fellow-travellers.


SOCIETY
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Mac Hoots”; It is only when your
travelling companion is a fish that you
fully realise the difference between private
enterprise and Government control.
Accompanied by a superb Red Emperor
from the Barrier Reef I flew by A.N.A.
to Sydney; and the beautiful air-hostess,
whose duties in no way include the care
of fish, found a block of ice for me, sat
that Red Emperor on it to Brisbane and
there, when I had to change planes,
called a porter for me and had it trans-
ferred to the correct aircraft in which an
equally beautiful hostess tended that fish
with equally loving care till it arrived safe
and fragrant in Sydney. True, when I
travelled by train in New South Wales
with four magnificent trout and had to
wait an hour at a junction to change
trains I found a courteous porter to take
care of my fish ; but he, in the seclusion
of the luggage-room, took such good care
of them that when I opened the bundle
at Sydney there were only three mag-
nificent trout —the other having remained
permanently in the care of the courteous
Government official.
* * * ♦
“Brolga”: Sitting in the barber’s chair
three weeks ago, when the strike was
only a pup, I noted how the conversation
level of the joint had changed. Little
was heard of “certs” and “dead ’uns,”
but there was a lot of loud talk about the
miners. Some of the blokes-were appa-
rently ready to go and scratch coal with
their bare hands. It struck me then that
some of the remarks could have been the
basis of a first-class donnybrook even in
more select company than that found in
a barber’s at the Cross. I don’t know
what happened in the meantime, but
yesterday, revisiting the shop, I noticed a
large new placard stuck on each wall-
mirror. Each read: “A Daily Prayer.
O Lord, please make me keep njy big
mouth shut until I know what I am talk-
ing about.”
* * * ♦
“H.W.M.”: On the secondhand counter
of a Melbourne bookshop is a large
volume, inscribed “Yackandandah Com-
mon School —No. 694. Christmas Ex-
amination, 1867. Special Prize for
English Grammar by Mr. James H. Dar-
ton, to Master Isaac A. Isaacs. Dec, 19,
1867.” It has been on offer for'some
time at 155., but no one appears to want
this once-valued possession of the first
Australian-born Governor-General,
* * * *
“Blue P.”: Out of Italy comes a story
that two Customs officers, 12,000 ft. up on
Mt. Blanc glacier, saw encased in an ice-
block a man who, on being thawed out,
was found to be an Alessandria
schoolmaster who vanished back in July,
1910: His body and everything on it had
been perfectly preserved in the ice for
39 years. There’s a macabre fascination
in this, and the story was cabled round
the world for that reason. Yet a frozen
cadaver should not excite so much atten-
tion while all over the world, particularly
in those high places where man’s political
and economic destinies are decided,
frozen minds continue to exercise an
awful influence. Here in Australia, for
example, we have a mind which froze
when its owner went on strike in 1917
and has remained in a glacial state ever
since.
* * * *
“Flathead”: One of the “useful items”
not being “sacrificed” by the war-surplus
disposals shops is the Army dog-biscuit.
Surely not because there is no surplus of
them. Boiled in a dixie they were said
to make porridge, but after 15 minutes
I’ve seen one fished out, unscathed. It
would constitute dental suicide to bite on
one of them, and very probably there is
an ex-Digger somewhere who owes his
life to the packet of dog-biscuits he
carried in his basic-pouch over his heart.
But the biscuits did have one really good
use, and considering the city’s present
conditions I think the disposals shops, in
not stocking them, are falling down on
their job. Half a packet of the genuine
dog-biscuits, ignited with a little tinder,
will burn with a heat fiercer than any of
your palings or piano-legs.
* * * ♦
“Nunk”: It is something of a mental,
as*well as a physical, strain to carry a
set of unwrapped pictures from a dis-
mantled art exhibition through the streets
of Sydney, especially if one of them is a
Norman Lindsay: “a kind of witches’
•carnival in the heavens,” to quote The
Bulletin critic’s description of it, “with
lovely naked witches, goats and a towering
storm-god.” However, we were proceed-
ing unchallenged down Bridge-street, my
companion hugging the “lovely naked
witches” to his side, when a little voice
piped up behind ys—“Why, that’s a
Norman Lindsay!” Then there passed
us a little school-capped boy with naked
knees and a little girl in school uniform,
also with naked knees, who was assuring
him: “Why, I just know it’s a Norman
Lindsay. I’ve seen lots of Norman Lind-
says.” How many other Australian
artists are there whose style a child could
recognise at a glance?
* * * ♦
“Sapphire”: It’s a tall order to dis-
cover some means of obviating the fire
risk in a crashed plane (B. 6/7/’49), but
one Major Maskelyne, late R.E., makes
some such claim. In his “Magic Top
Secret,” he tells of a test carried out at
the Heliopolis airfield, in the presence of
service chiefs. An obsolete bomber, loaded
with full petrol-tanks and with extra
cans of petrol in the fuselage, surmounted
by a heap of broken packing-cases, well-
soaked in sump-oil, was set alight.
Maskelyne, in overalls made of old Army
blankets and wearing goggles, was
smeared from head to foot with a special
paste and walked into the inferno, to
emerge after three minutes, unharmed.
An R.A.F. rescue-man, in asbestos suit,
was dragged out by him, and spent several
months in hospital. The paste was the
type used “on stage” for licking red-hot
pokers. Maskelyne says he gave the
formula to the Air Ministry. The only
obvious value of any such paste would be
for use by rescue-squads. One can-
not imagine passengers agreeing to a coat-
ing of grease as a regular feature of air
travel.
* * * *
“Bo”: The case-hardened traveller on
Sydney’s electric-railway system auto-
matically begins folding his newspaper
a few seconds before his train dives into
the underground, long experience having
taught him that his carriage will im-
mediately thereafter be either (a) cast in
Stygian blackness which will be lifted only
a few seconds before his alighting station,
or ( b ) will have so many dud light-bulbs
as to make reading by him a matter of
intense satisfaction to optometrists. Every
day last week I travelled in the same re-
frigeration car, a jazzed-up relic of the old
suburban steam era; this sacrifice of com-
fort in the interests of statistical research.
Each morning four of the six globes re-
fused to light up. Also, presumably to
“Pull your head in, Cedric!"
save passengers from the intense heat of
the early-morning July sunshine without
their necessity to lower the shutters, the
windows bore a fine aggregation of grime
against which the sun’s rays beat in vain.
The opaqueness of the windows may be
remedied in time by the next rainstorm,
but I was puzzled as to how the light
position would eventually be restored in
view of the fact that nobody of official
status seemingly walked through the train
when it was in action to check up. A
"It's going to pay this time!”
railwayman I approached offered the most
logical explanation: he said that in view
of the five million deficit they were prob-
ably trying to make the dead light-bulbs
last a little longer.
* * * ♦
“K.H.H.”: I can’t see what the furore
was about in Britain over that broadcast
which got tied in accidentally with a
private conversation between two women
telephone-chattering—a woman in Bristol
was talking to her sister in Weston-super-
Mare. The sisters’ “private” conversation
went over the air for five minutes before
the 8.8. C. engineers cut it. A play was
being broadcast at the time and the
heroine, Florence Nightingale, was sup-
posed to be conversing in her thoughts
with the dead Lord Sidney Herbert. When
she said to Herbert, “Why have you
come?” listeners heard a female voice
reply, “I got your telegram® this morn-
ing.” Which reminds me that one night
last year I left the radio on after the
stations had closed down for the night.
Not long after midnight the set came to
life again and I heard a full rehearsal of
the National Quiz —the whole patter, with
the quizmaster asking the questions and
technicians standing-in as the quiz team.
It was an all-States hook-up, and the par-
ticipants obviously did not know they
were on the* air. If I and the two friends
who shared the experience could have
joined the quiz team a few nights later
we’d have surprised everyone with the
accuracy of our answers.
* * * *
“Carlyle”: The reception given the
National Ballet Company, now touring
Victoria (B. 6/7/’49), at its first two
stopping-places may dispel “Cauboy’s”
doubts for its success. Beginning at Bal-
larat with two good houses, the company
travelled on to Horsham, where an en-
thusiastic audience of 900—some travel-
ling 50-60 miles —packed the Town Hall
for the night performance, and another
500 attended the matinee. That two other
top-line artists —Marjorie Lawrence and
Aleksandr Helmann —were as well sup-
ported during the same fortnight indicates
that, given the opportunity, the country-
dweller is well able to appreciate the arts.
Through billeting a member of the com-
pany I now have an advantage over my
city brother: a new, intriguing knowledge
of ballet. No dancer “limbers up” before
his hearth, nor is he granted a glimpse
into the seeming madhouse of dressing-
and make-up rooms which miraculously
yield up well-groomed performers. Not
for him, either, is the intimate knowledge
that clogging make-up means an almost
daily hair-wash, nor that glue used for
affixing toe-shoes must be washed from
tights between each performance. Given
these advantages he would wonder, with
me, how long enthusiasm alone will con-
tinue to nourish the dancers’ delicate
bodies and be proof against the sketchy
meals, sweat-damp clothes and endless
practice which make up their existence.
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: Despite all the claims made
for modem screen-acting and modem
screen - photography, plus sound, an
ancient Charlie Chaplin two-reeler
entitled “The Adventurer” has been run-
ning to packed houses with waiting
queues at a Sydney newsreel theatre. In-
side the sustained laughter is something
any modern Hollywood screen comedian
would sell his soul to hear lavished on
his own antics.
* * * ♦
“Clooter”: The notion held by so
many country people that life in Sydney
makes its inhabitants “soft” has been
blown to bits. The kind of winter Sydney
has been going through must turn us
into one of the hardiest populations in
the world. Years ago the accusation of
being “soft” was largely true. Then
every home had its comfortable fire
day and. night, in every pub, billiard-
saloon, club, school of arts and so
forth the citizen could get his back to a
cheery blaze on a wintry night, call for
a hot meal or a hot toddy and get either
or both. This winter the temperatures
have been lower than usual, fires of all
kinds except the somewhat ineffective
oil-heater are “out,” lights are off, hot
meals scarce and hot toddies are but
memories. The city folk shiver their way
out of bed, shiver on the way to work,
shiver at work and shiver their way home
again. They’re getting used to it and
they must be getting hardier. No enemy
need in future suppose that Sydney would
collapse early in a siege, no bucolic critic
delude himself that we are “soft.” From
Hornsby to Cronulla and Penrith to the
sea a million people are getting hardier
every day.
* * * ♦
“Macpipes”: Be you bald or woolly,
a visit to one of Sydney’s haircut joints
will today cost you 2s. 3d., and although
no report is yet to hand of any barber
taking up office space in Macquarie-street,
it is sure to happen. I didn’t realise
that the thatch-doctors’ new prices em-
braced minor operations on moustaches.
Then I saw a newspaper photograph
from England which purported to depict
Minister for Defence Dedman, yet dis-
playing a totally unfamiliar face; there
was no moustache on it. I’ll bet a haggis
that in London Mr. Dedman found a
barber who would rid him of the foliage
our cartoonists know so well and charge
him something equal to the labor involved
—that’s r-r-real economy.
“GO, LOVELY ROSE!”
“The Governor-General, Mr. McKell, is visiting
Papua and New Guinea, and in his old electorate
of Redtern last week 150 men, women and children
fought for a handout of sausages.”
Go, Bill McKell!
Tell the Papuan, Mack as sin,
That here, as well,
The baths and showers of the mine
Leave the black heart in the white skin.
Tell him that’s young
In arts and industry and civic pride
That had he sprung
In Sydney, where such things abide,
He might have been less satisfied.
Is it quite wise
That cannibals should be retired?
Tell him —The price
Of meat, and hungry workers, unrequired,
Make such economists admired. >
Then dye! That he
Black-man’s and white-man’s twin despair
May read in thee;
How much desire of light we share
Who are so wondrous dark and fair!
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM SWALLER.


mv mom safe/
nW/f ' ,< s
SANDERS*
Conmpoodnc*. 1 o • o I c • ••
•lOltm.au, «|c.. Ul.d Id th.
"Sander*" can be eocurely
bound and converted Into o
ported book of reference at
U.. «nd of each nuonth —or
Price* and far-
ther ißlorniilai
any other period.
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
DtttnbiatHt Agenit—
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE .
ADELAIDE ,
rSBTU j|
C Peofeld A Ce. Pty. Ltd.
Normti Br«». Pty. Ltd.
Verdoo A Eoe* Ltd.
Docket Seek Ce. lAwt.)
sdf
ALL KINDS OF
k FISHING TACKLE!
For river, beach and deep
sea fishermen. English and
French NYLON LINES...
hunting knives . . . smokers’
requisites. Write for new
fishing catalogue, now avail-
able.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 George St., Sydney.
Phone M6361.
GIOBITE
TRAVEL CASES
They're lighter, stronger, longer-
lasting. That's -why a Globite
costs less In the long run.
Mode by
FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
••
■ .
“Hannan-street”: The expression “open-
cut” is having a great run, and boys of
the “columnist” breed obviously regard
it as new. It must be 46 years since I
reported a Kalgoorlie arbitration case in
which the Judge—first of the litter, 1
fancy —asked for a definition, and the
workers’ advocate (a dear old pal of
mine, long dead) obliged, “A hopencut,
yer Honner,” he said, “is an ’ole in the
side of an ’ill.”
* * * *
“Macnell”: Sydney Hydrographic De-
partment will not be amused by a recent
Press report that ships coursing round
Australia are tracking along on charts
surveyed by Dampier in 1688 ; and that
the most modern fathom-finders are dated
1890. The inference is, of course, that
neither the Admiralty nor the R.A.N.
has done anything about giving their
charthouse parchments a new look. Be-
fore I shipped bell-bottoms the old
Geranium and Moresby were methodi-
cally plodding and plotting along our
northern coasts. In later years Lachlan,
Macquarie, Gascoyne, Warrego and
Barcoo have laid sonic fingers along the
ocean-bed from King Sound to Spencer
Gulf, and lots of stretches in between.
Admittedly most Admiralty and Austra-
lian charts are based on surveys made
long ago—a clinching proof of the sea-
manship of the old mariners who made
them —but so much has been added since,
both by survey-ships and reports from
mariners discovering unmarked shoals,
reefs, and so on, that a chart of the
Reef used today bears about as much
relationship to Matthew Flinders’s as
Gregory’s “Road Guide” does to Gov-
ernor Macquarie’s.
* * « *
“D.E.”: Idiotic as it seems, the Crimean
War, itself idiotic, is much better repre-
sented on the Australian map and in
street directories than either of the world
struggles in which hundreds of thousands
of Australians served with distinction, if
that of 1939-45 is so represented at all.
In my Victorian boyhood I lived in Bala-
clava, stayed a while in Sebastopol, walked
along Inkerman-street to school, and had
to be ready with answers to questions
as to where the towns named Inkerman
and St, Amaud were. Coming across to
Mosman, Sydney, and then to Manly, I
had my being in a maze of Raglan,
Redan, Canrobert and Inkerman thorough-
fares. St. Arnaud and Canrobert were
French Generals who are forgotten even
in their own country. Raglan, a pupil
of Wellington, was so old and forgetful
when commanding in the Crimea that
he was given to urging his officers, in
French company, to give the French hell.
Infinitely more worthy of geographical
and topographical commemoration are
Monash, Chauvel and Blarney, Lone Pine,
Villers-Brettoneux and Milne Bay (and
both lists could, of course, be multiplied);
but where is the recognition of it?
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Is there anything more un-
predictable than success or failure in the
theatre? Judith Anderson, the Adelaide
actress, played “The Green Hat” in Aus-
tralia and it was a flop, or a near-flop.
Sybil Thorndike performed the “Medea”
of Euripides in Australian Gilbert
Murray’s translation in Melbourne, and it
ran for two or three days. Miss Ander-
son recently revived the same classic
drama and played it to 2,000,000 people.
In a return season in New York she set
a new box-office record, and at the final
and 519th performance thrilled an audi-
ence of 10,000.
* * * *
“Zake”: Among housewives whose
husbands are on moderate fixed salaries
or wages, and for whom the ever-
mounting cost of living has made the
weekly depositing of some savings in the
bank an almost-forgotten rite, there has
grown to an amazing degree of popularity
the hoarding of the humble trey-bit, for be
it known that even a small glass jar holds
up to £5 of the coin, whilst a full-size
jam-jar would crack the kitty at around
£2O. In this way rest the only hopes
many families have of getting a holiday.
The housewife argues that the thrippenny-
bit is not missed. To get them most
enthusiasts in the sport will never
offer a trey for bus- or tram-fare even
if they have it available —they proffer
a bigger coin, hoping to get treys in the
change. Equally amazing is the speed
with which the pile grows. The chief
requisite for the sport, of course, is strong
willpower, for the temptation to crack
the bank to buy something is always
potent. I know one woman who got her
husband to use his superior wrist-strength
to put the jar-lid of her “bank” on so
tightly she couldn’t possibly unscrew it
herself, and to make certain he couldn’t
# get the chance she found a safe niche
for it. It yielded £l7 at holiday-time a
real lifesaver.
“J. Switcher”: Elgar’s “Land of Hope
and Glory,” composed, I believe, for the
coronation of Edward VII, is an A.B.C.
standby. Some of the lines are a bit
outmoded ; for example:
Wider still, and wider,
Shall thy bounds be set.
God who made thee mighty
Make thee mightier yet!
[(N.B.: Repeat; still louder.)]
But A.B.G.’s devotion is unfaltering. It
played the thing before and after a
flowery review of Churchill’s latest book
—played it to the pompous end.
* * * *
“Selinorrer”: Quite probably a large
proportion of Spaniards are in reality
Jewish by descent (B. 20/7/’49); when
about 20 years ago the anti-Jewish laws
which led to the Impulsion were revoked
it was discovered that there Were also
quite a large number of Jews who,
generation after generation, had main-
tained the principles of their religion
“I’ll teach you not to go to that hairdresser !”
underground. But their rites and tenets
had become so distorted and mixed-up
with Christian observances that these
“marranos” were regarded as renegades
by orthodox Jewish communities else-
where ; their request for assistance to help
them become orthodox was answered
by the dispatch to Spain of a number of
Jewish ministers. The Expulsion was
supposed to be one of the most
thorough eradications of history; be-
sides those who had accepted Catholicism
or got out, hundreds of converses
suspected of still carrying on Jewish
rites were slaughtered by the In-
quisition. Yet there were about 300,000
of these marranos at the time when they
could safely reveal themselves.
* * * *
“Jurutulis”: A world hunt for more
than 100 priceless pictures, allegedly
stolen from Frankfurt Art Cillery in
1945, recently recoiled on itself, the
missing paintings being found in the
gallery’s cellars. Not long since there
was a hunt in Melbourne for some of the
works of an 80-year-old artist named
Haydon who died in poverty and neglect
in London. Somebody discovered two
of his pictures at the Aquarium in the
Exhibition building.
*** * •
“B, A. Ker”: Intricate and ornamental
brickwork interests or fascinates me,
according to its merit. Marooned in a
Burwood (N.S.W.) street while the wife
chased the elusive elastic or something,
I glanced up at the post-office clock —and
glanced again. Interested, I approached
closer, found a good observation-post on
the footpath opposite, and proceeded to
take in the wheel-arch that surrounds the
dial and appraise the almost unique
scroll cut in brickwork below. A first-
class job indeed, and one well worth
studying. I was intent on figuring out
how I would go about setting out such
a job if I were lucky enough to have a
similar gem detailed to me when the
scene closer at hand registered on my con-
sciousness : Two elderly women were
ga'zing heavenward on my right, to the
left an old man and two flappers were
earnestly staring upward, and an
extremely tall young bloke moved be-
hind me until he was taking a direct sight
over my head. When several more joined
in I left them to it. Perhaps they’re still
there. I don’t know. But one thing I
do know —they weren’t looking at that
brickwork.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: The tallest man I
can recall was an old ex-convict named
Yorkie, who owned a block at Wanneroo
(W.A.) around the turn of the century.
At the time Wanneroo was booming, and
an insurance company investing in real
estate bought Yorkie’s block. Instead
of a lump sum they paid the old chap
an annuity at the rate of 25 shillings a
week and sat back waiting for him to die.
Years passed. Yorkie acquired a small
block and lived comfortably on his in-
come while the company wondered. The
price was becoming excessive. Eventually
an officer, sent to investigate, heard
sounds of blasting coming from Yorkie’s
block and asked a neighbor. It seemed
that the winter had been severe, and
Yorkie, in his mid-eighties, was finding
the protection of his humpy inadequate.
He was working on an outcrop quarrying
stone with which to build a solid house.
* * * ♦
“Mullum”: This hard-luck story of the
coal strike concerns a country brick-
maker. A month before the strike began
he bought an electric motor to drive his
machinery, and sold the diesel engine he
had been using. Not only has he had to
cease production, but, a week after the
strike commenced, he was offered three
times the price he had received for the
diesel,
* * * *
“Cine Ma”: Reported that a British
film director has been revealing in Mel-
bourne a new technique for making pic-
tures. It is called “independent frame,”
and implies that if a British film has a
background, say, in Switzerland, shots
are filmed in Switzerland and the' actors
filmed in England against the foreign
background. It doesn’t seem to be such
an innovation. Twenty years ago I saw
Frank Thring, cigar in mouth, directing
a pair of lovers sitting on a heap of sand
on the stage of the burnt-out shell of His
Majesty’s, Melbourne, in the technique of
courtship. I subsequently saw the com-
pleted film in which the same loving
couple and the same heap of sand
appeared against a majestic background
of rolling breakers. I don’t suppose Mr.
Thring took his lovers and their sand
down to that bayside resort and re-
photographed the lot, but if, in
case of fact, the British film confectors
have only just discovered the method it
will be a good thing, and we won’t have
to look any more at Hamlet cavorting in
front of a Danish castle obviously made
in England. I have always wondered why
producers, in a land covered with lovely
old manor-houses, castles and cathedrals
built in the Middle Ages, persist in mak-
ing pasteboard replicas with about as
much of the character of the architecture
supposed to be represented as there is in
a Housing Commission villa.
*****
“F.S.”: Velasquez, El Greco and Goya
would be surprised to learn that 250 of
their pictures are to be used by the
Spanish Government to relieve the dollar
shortage. Franco having decided to hold
a monster exhibition of their works in
New York and then leave them there as
security fojr a big loan. None of these
masters had any prestige until the middle
of last century, when they suddenly be-
came the fashion. Now some of their
works are almost priceless. If Franco
went broke Uncle Sam would presumably
become the owner of the collection and
the New York Metropolitan Museum
would become one of the world’s art
centres and nobody would want to visit
the Prado.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: Bloomers of critics?
Dr. A. E. Floyd, one-time organist of St.
Paul’s, Melbourne, and the city’s best-
liked musical broadcaster, was criticised
for including the music of Handel, a
German, with “Rule Britannia” and “The
British Grenadiers” in his programme at
an Empire Day luncheon. “Well,” re-
torted the doctor, “every British monarch
is crowned to the music of Handel’s
‘Zadok the Priest,’ regaled with his
‘Hallelujah Chorus’ on every State oc-
casion and buried to his ‘Dead March
in Saul.’ And the composer himself is
buried in Westminster Abbey.”
* * * *
“Rooster”: Aviation has now reached
a point where planes have overtaken the
speed of sound and scientists are now
confronted with the problem of frictional
resistance. It is believed that somewhere
around the 1000 m.p.h. mark air-resistance
will be so great that the resultant heat
would bring the plane dangerously near
to melting-point. It is therefore a relief
to learn that, among the many world-
leading claims of Moscow scientists, that
of ensuring man’s immunity to heat suffi-
cient to melt a plane has been discovered.
At least, it is on Russian record that an
ace-pilot bailed out of a jet-plane travel-
ling at a speed which liquefied it in mid-
air. His secret is anybody’s guess. The
Tass Agency reports that “foreign re-
porters were impressed.” It didn’t men-
tion whether it was the plane or the pilot
that left ’em gasping.
* * * *
“Col M.”; I was shocked to read a
heading in a recent London “Times” —
“Shakspeare On the Rock.” Reading on,
I was pleased to find that the Bard was
not in financial difficulties, but at
Gibraltar, where thespians from the ser-
vices and members of the public had put
on “A Midsummer Night’s Dream” as
part of a 10-day cultural and sporting
festival. Only twice before had Shak-
speare been performed in English at
Gib. —1842 and 1945 ; never before had
he been supported by rowing, swimming,
football and a fire-brigade display.
* * * ♦
“Melbn”: The Felton Bequest’s next
benefaction to the National Gallery in
Melbourne will be a “St. George and the
Dragon” by Lucas Cranach; price paid,
£4600. Cranach was one of the lesser
German masters. Court painter to
Frederick the Wise of Wittenberg, he
was a friend of Luther, and painted
portraits of the reformer and his family.
The trustees are considering an offer by
the French Government of a loan of 100
pictures for exhibition in 1950. If the
paintings are representative of the great
period of French nineteenth-century
painting, the trustees ought to seize the
offer with both hands. If they are con-
temporaries well, our own contem-
poraries are doing precisely the same
thing, so they would only be wasting
transport.


ABORIGINALITIES
WAIOHENA RIVER.
When the rod is singing sweetly and the fly is
falling light
And each boulder wears its ball-dress of frilly,
frothy white,
Beneath the river’s crooning there’s a deep,
full bass-drum beat
And the pools are green as linnets and slow-
churning in the heat;
And the rifleman goes flitting up the stately
rimu boles
And the rata blooms are crimson where the
near hill bends and rolls:
Weave your magic, Waiohena, ancient spells of
bush and sky,
While 1 work the upper reaches, taking brown
trout on the fly.
Let me see the fantails hawking o’er the rapids’
supple throat,
Crumbs of beauty, ballet-whirling to a bell-
bird’s fluty note,
And a sparrowhawk swift-hurtling on the blue
bush-pigeon’s tail,
As I set the fly high-floating on a saucy, jaunty
sail.
And I’ll see the shape beneath it —then the
big frog-colored snout
And the red spots on the silver as his first
leap hurls him out.
Sing your songs, old Waiohena, age-old music
sweet and high,
Melodies of sun on water, taking brown trout
on the fly.
Let me see the white-wine water, bubble-laced
beneath the falls
And the lace-barks leaning out to hear the tuis’
liquid calls
And the hinds with sight-long noses and the
grey duck planing down,
Then the view of mighty Alpha with the snow-
fall for his crown;
And a strike, and something dashing through
white water, and at last
There’s another on the gravel and you change
the slim, frayed cast.
Spread your canvas, Waiohena, spread it wide
for grateful eye
For there’s time to look on beauty, takfng
brown trout on the fly.
Fancy places, ideologies, posh homes and tons
of jack
I’ll swap for love of woman, or a Tararua track
Hung with punga fronds and fuschias and the
matai’s steeple tall;
For when you’re through the saddle you can
hear the river call,
Then you lead the tough packhorses and you
pat your rifle-butt
And you give your rods a hand-clasp, for it’s
downhill to the hut —
Call me back, old Waiohena, when it comes
• my turn to die
Call my spirit up the gorges taking brown trout
on the fly I
MAORILAND. LEN DU CHATEAU.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Floods! Me an’ Mat
were heading for. Leongatha (Gippsland),
and camped one night in a deserted barn
on a flat out of Lang Lang. It had rained
steadily all the afternoon, and as we got
into our naps that night we congratulated
each other on having found the bit of
shelter. About then a figure in an oilskin
and carrying a hurricane-lamp appeared
in the door, shook the rain off its whiskers
and announced, “You can’t camp here
t’night.” “This your shed?” Mat de-
manded, “Aye, an’ y’ can’t camp in it.
You”- 1 Before he could say more
Mat opened out on him, told him what
we thought of Gippsland, its weather, its
wages and other things, and what we
thought of its farmers who were too
“You and your glue on the saddle !”
lousy to let a couple of decent blokes
camp in an empty shed. “I’m tellin’ y’,”
said Whiskers, “y’ can’t camp here. With
this rain there’ll be four feet o’ water
round this shed be mornin’,” Mat
laughed. “Y’ll have t’ throw us out,
mister,” he said. “We ain’t goin’ other-
wise. An’ don’t try t’ bluff us about
floods; we ain’t failin’ for that.” The
barn-owner looked angrily at us, swore
and withdrew. We chuckled about him
and settled down. Some time later Mat
shook me awake. There was a foot of
water in the shed, our naps were satu-
rated, so were most of our clothes. As,
cold, wet and miserable, we dragged our
sodden things through the dark slush to
higher ground, I chattered, “What a
ruddy know-all you are. That bloke was
tryin’t’ do us a good turn.” “Aw, well,”
Mat grunted, “y’ gotter be wrong some-
times.” “Y’ pick some pretty crook times
t’ be wrong,” I said. “Yair?” he sneered.
“Well, I wouldn’t mind bettin’ he built
that shed down there just t’ nark blokes
like us. I know these Gippsland cockies.”
* * * *
“Solitude”: We were jogging along
the road towards the little town when
we struck a bloke pumping air into one
of his car tyres and dropped off to give
him a blow. “Are you making for the
town?” he asked Seventyfiver. “Well,
I’m afraid you won’t get in. Everywhere
is full up. That’s why I had to leave.
You won’t get a place to sleep.” Seventy-
fiver blinked wonderingly. “It’s a fact,”
declared the bloke. “They’re having a
back-to-the-town, and it’s crowded. The
hotels are both full, and what’s more,
you can’t even get a meal.” “Nothing
to eat?” Seventyfiver showed signs of
slight concern. “No, I tried every place
along the street,” said the bloke, “and
they’d all either run out of food or
wouldn’t take anyone who hadn’t
ordered earlier.” Seventyfiver chewed
on a gumleaf and said nothing. Two
hours later, under a tree near the re-
serve, he roasted the hindquarters of a
rabbit on a stick, hacked a hunk off the
loaf I’d bought without trouble at the
bakery and chucked the rest of it in my
direction. Followed an hour of peace,
hardly disturbed by the noise of the
crowds milling on the main street. Then,
another log on the fire, his boots shoved
comfortably under his head and Seventy-
fiver settled for the night. “Sol,” the
voice came floating back dreamily from
halfway to sleep. “Wonder what that
coot’s idea was sayin’ there weren’t no
place t’ sleep. Must ’a’ been tryin’ t’
put one over us or somethin’.”
* * * *
“Lower Tops’l”: Consternation was
caused aboard the British freighter
Glenpark the other day when she was
about to leave Geelong for overseas. As
the warps were cast off Noah, the ship’s
cat, took a dive and delayed the ship an
hour while he paddled around Corio Bay.
Eventually he called it a day and swam
to a seaman on the pier. Had Noah not
been retrieved the ship would have for-
feited a £5O bond to the quarantine
authorities.
* * * *
“Cag”: “Hanko’s” discreet copper (B.
13/7/’49) is a contrast to the one we once
had in the Mallee. On alternate Satur-
days a brawny Swede would come some
miles for a session in the town’s only
pub, and during the afternoon would
reach the stage of yelling “Where iss dat
plutty copper? Dis time I gif him hid-
ing!” The John was always handy; he
had probably entered the appointment in
his diary. The boys would form a ring
in the pub yard; the guardian of the
law would carefully remove his tunic,
and then proceed, with science and
monotonous regularity, to give the chal-
lenger a lacing. But every time the Swede
came to town he would ask for more. In
his own way he enjoyed himself as much
as his opponent did. One day the Swede
decided on a variation. He bet the Law
a fiver he, the Swede, couldn’t be hand-
cuffed under 15 minutes. It was “Rafferty
rules,'” plus one condition: if either con-
testant finished up unconscious bets were
off. After 12 exciting minutes the John
succeeded. But there was something
wrong with the Swede’s breathing, and
he lay on his back with his eyes closed.
Worried cobbers fanned him with their
hats, and muttered something about bets
being declared off. The constable
wandered casually across to his prostrate
adversary, and without warning dug
something violently into his rump. The
Swede was on his feet in an instant, and
duly paid over the money with a rueful
grin. There were no further contests.
No hard feelings, either.
• * * *
“Old-timer”: An argument began in
the hut between young Hull and Pocket-
knife. It waxed loud and profane, and
each successively dredged his vocabulary
for names to describe the other suitably.
“Just Wait a couple o’ days, Bert, while I duck back for me ’ baccy .”
The names were commonplace to that
company, who had heard them all before
applied to sheep, dogs, horses, men, bul-
locks, bosses, politicians, publicans and
other objects of rancor or affection. The
disputants were temporarily silenced when
Little Curl shouted, “Aw, shut up. Y’ve
repeated y’rselves six or seven times al-
ready. Y’ get on a man’s nerves.”
Pocket knife began to roll a cigarette, and
young Hull subsided on to his bunk, his
face red and his mind working furiously,
All might have remained peaceful had
Pocketknife not snarled, “That quietened
y’, y’ flamin’ gramaphone!” Young Hull
looked again at the paper he was read-
ing, then in a low, penetrating, triumphant
voice he said, “Shut up, y’ cacklin’ cocka-
trice!” Astonished faces turned upon
young Hull, there was a brief and amazed
silence, then Little Curl said, “Whatinell’s
that?” Young Hull grinned, arose and
went loftily outside. Speculation was
loud and varied in that hut and on that
run for the remainder of the week, and it
wasn’t till we got to town on the Satur-
day and borrowed a dictionary that we
discovered the meaning. Whereupon
Pocketknife had to be forcibly restrained
from falling upon young Hull, what time
Hull swore he never knew it meant any-
thing like that. Which is how “cacklin’
cockatnce” entered the abusive vocabulary
of that district. -
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: I’ve noticed
now that when I feed my tripehounds on
meat that has gone off in the house
meat-safe one or other dog develops
gastric trouble. Yet meat that those dogs
have dug up from the garden and scoffed
would knock you over, but it never seems
to affect them. It is the same with
ancient fish they find on beaches.
J #
„ T . , .
“B. A. Ker”; I was running late, as
usual, but you can’t callously pass a horse
in trouble ; and the big Roman-nosed
Clydesdale certainly was in a bit of
bother. He was standing quietly enough,
but with both forelegs over the top strand
of a barbed-wire fence, his body holding
the wire down. Fortunately the posts
were old and the strands merely stapled
on, not threaded through. At the cost of
two angry scratches and my chances of
Paradise, I got the wires wrenched off
enough posts to give sufficient slack, then
lifted Dobbin’s legs back inside the fence,
With a lump of rock I hammered the
staples in place again before dashing off
to work. Three mornings later the old
moke was in the same predicament in
almost the same place. Two Italian
market-gardeners were busy extricating
him as I rode past. A week passed before
I saw him again—he was in the same
mess, about 50 yards further along the
fence My conscience told me what he
was thinking about me as I pedalled past,
pretending to be interested in something
in the opposite direction. To my horror
he was still there when I came home at
night. “Poor old fellow,” I commiserated
when he was at last freed; “been there
all day; I’ll bet you’re nearly dead for
the want of a drink,” “He hasn’t been
there all day,” spoke up a small boy who
had been watching—and, by his presence,
hampering my vocabulary ; “You’re the
third bloke who’s untangled him since
dinner-time.” I’ve found another road
to work now —if about a ton of draught-
horse wants to attempt jumps like a
flighty hack, he can get someone else to
get him out of his troubles.
• * * * «
“Blime”: The picture was in a daily a
few weeks back, wire fence festooned
with many wedgetail carcasses, and, as
usual, I waited the repercussions. They
came. Same old howls of protest against
the grazier, same old arguments, same
old well-meant advice. Cruelty, they
clamor. Maybe; but one hears far
less protest on the killing of other
animals or birds. The bjg eagle
cleans up carrion and catches rabbits.
Sure, but so does a fox, and I’ve
never heard any of the clan hold a brief
for Johnny. Then why all the fuss? Is
it the size of the wedgie that appeals, or
his ability as a flier that arouses admira-
tion? Yet one never hears the mob wax-
ing eloquent over an elephant, nor
sparing more than a passing comment on
the prowess of an albatross. The claim
that the wedgetail only takes an occa-
sional weakling at lambing-time, and
that the lamb would probably die aav-
way, could only be believed by those
w ho don’t know the big eagles. Once
wedgies get pushed for feed and start to
kill not only strong healthy lambs are
taken but grown sheep are attacked and
killed with slow and gruesome cruelty.
On the other hand, the greater per-
centage of eagles do not take to sheep.
with plenty of rabbits and other food
available they are mostly content; but
once a pair of the scavengers start the
practice there seems to be no letting-up,
and then no pest could be more trouble-
some. Though against indiscriminate de-
struction of the big fliers as needless, noth-
ing s fi o rt of physical violence could stop
me going flat-out after a wedgetail
sheep-killer.
* * * *
“Chuck”; On the back steps of the
pub Charlie dropped the magazine he
was reading and gazed thoughtfully at
t fi e dusk . “s ez here,” he remarked,
„ that a the bloke tha
. rvnoo „ rnnnn .
: ~, , , ’ , ® \
good-natured bloke, good-natured mong;
that sort o’ thing. Reckon there’s any-
,. . . , nwnpr scratched
thm g ln *? The scratched
J“s h ead. Oh, I dunno, he murmu .
“We had a useless, pampered little tyke
here last week. Belonged to that la-di-
dah woman that stayed the night Fussy
little beast; wouldn’t eat anything we
gave it, and I was glad to see the last ot
it when the woman shifted out because
our tucker wasn t good enough. Yair,
but I mean real mongs, pursued
Charlie. Like Sleepy Joes, fr m-
stance. Only I reckon that tripehound
don’t stay awake long enough t tell
what he’s like.” “No ; well, there s the
dog belonging to that useless waster oi
a yardman of mine, said Bung,
“Though if you ask me, that animal is
just good for nothing At that moment
a fat Airedale waddled round the corner
and presented himself. Charlie eyed the
stranger and voiced the usual inquiry,
“Oh, he belongs to the new John over
the road,” the other explained. Only
arrived three days ago. Haven t seen
him yet, but his mong comes round at
this time every evening soon s the bars
shut. Didn’t know what he wanted at
first, but I soon learnt. Yair, and ne
won’t go, neither, till he s lapped up as
much beer as he can swallow.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
SACKSOM*
O&UUAVAV
iTEUtt .
Em *m£T
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
"Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
‘jAXUL” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“national” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
‘PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUI”, BRISBANE
\ x:
I \*
m
sR
im
guaranteed never to fade or shrink
\W'A
IW/
' Flawlessly crafted in
England of age old
bruyere and distin-
guished for its rich grain
and superb finish, the
“Sasieni” is truly perfec-
tion in pipecraft. In-
built, too, is the patented
“Sasieni” moisture trap,
which assures a mellow,
dry, satisfying smoke.
In your favourite shape
at all good stores.
Priced at 56/-.
Distributed by WILCOX MOFFLIN LIMITED
Branches in all States.
(7 COOt
-A: v ■
“Bo”; Carter was on the windlass
while Murdock was down the well sending
up the mullock in the bucket. Just as
he had emptied a bucket and was start-
ing to lower it Carter instinctively ducked
as a bullet whined just over his head.
His mind instantly visioning some mad-
man abroad with a rifle, he made a flying
dive for the descending rope. The wind-
lass spun with the increased weight,
Carter yelled a warning to his partner
below, and a few seconds later the bucket
hit the bottom with Carter on top of it,
luckily unhurt. Anger quickly replaced
concern with the startled Murdock as his
mate got to his feet. “That was an
barmy thing to do, Tom,” he growled.
“Y’ might ’a’ dominoed a bloke. What’s
the blasted hurry for, anyway?” “Some-
one’s up there shootin’ a twenty-two
around pretty wild,” protested Carter.
“Might be some bloke run amuck or out
to get us, y’ never know.” “Did y’ see
him?” asked Murdock. “No,” replied
his partner. “The bullet come from that
heavily-timbered gully on the left.” “You
just got panicky, Tom,” said Murdock.
“Just stop an’ think a minute. How the
blazes could a bullet fired from there hit
us down here?”
“Simon Scrawler”: “Blime’s” sheep
(B. 13/7/ *49) have my sympathy. In a
Jap p.-0.-w. camp 20 of ,us ate a half-
kerosene-tin of boiled whole maize. That
night we went to sleep on full bellies fot
the first time in weeks, but in /he early
hours all of us woke in agony, blown up
like balloons. Afterwards we experi-
mented, and found that by pounding the
maize to a flour and boiling it we could
eat big quantities * without ill-effect.
Sjf != • *
“Salmon Gums”.: The theory that a
mark made on a tree a fixed height above
ground-level should be the same height
years later (B. 6/7/’49) fails to take into
account that the process of growth may
vary with different species. I recall a
wire clothes-line tied to a pepper-tree.
Now, 30 years later, that wire, embedded
in the wood, is still about the right height
for a clothes-line. Near by is a tall white-
“Three million square miles of territory in Australia and your mother
Wants to take that blasted window-box !”
gum, the lowest .branch of which is 30ft.
from the ground. I find it hard to believe
that the tree grew no branches until it
was 30ft. high. The young white-gums
in the paddock look normal youngsters,
and one, with a branch a few feet from
the ground, might be a chip off the old
block. A hundred years hence I expect
he’ll look remarkably like his. Dad.
* * * *
“Betcha”: .Won’t argue against a nag’s
scared objection to some particular sub-
ject having its roots in an early happening,
but usually the cause isn’t traceable.
Take, for instance, my old horse that
was always hunting snakes. Snakes
weren’t numerous in the district, and
to my knowledge he’d never been
bitten, but once that moke got his mind
on the wrigglers he cat-walked in all
directions snorting at dry sticks. Lizards,
even the big sleepies, he ignored. An-
other horse will step unconcernedly over
a snake, but go half-mad if anyone fires
a shot within hearing. The dumper is
unshakeably convinced he is the target,
and takes immediate precautions against
providing a sitting shot. A little mare
was spoiled for bush work by her terror
of ’roos and wallabies, for no amount
of persuasion could move her until her
particular debil-debil had bounced out of
sight in the far distance. Evidently it
was the unusual gait that had her bluffed.
Riding to a near homestead I overlooked
the pet ’roo in the yard. The mare, too,
took no more than a mild interest in her
pet aversion until we were within a
couple of yards and the animal hopped
lazily away. I could never get the mare
past that homestead afterwards without
a fight.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Clogs (B. 6/7/’49)/
They’re worn by workmen employed in
a certain department in Perth breweries.
The inch-thick soles are reinforced with
light steel “horse-shoes,” and although
they appear cumbersome they have re-
mained in vogue for many years, so pre-
sumably they are economical. Either
that or they’re retained as evidence that
the stus doesn’t rot boots —at least some
boots,
* * * *
“Old Bushman”: The present open
season for possums in Tasmania has
raised the controversy as to which is the
cruellest, the steel trap or the wire snare,
and consensus of opinion is the snare is
the more humane. It isn’t. In north
Queensland I’ve caught hundreds of pos-
sums with the wire snare on a pole, and
only about 10 per cent, are snared by the
neck. Almost all the animals are caught
behind the two front legs or around the
loins. The tree-climber then jumps off
the pole and there it hangs—in some
cases for days. Most possums I took
from snares were still alive, with the re-
sult the wire had cut through into the
flesh. The only humane way of catch-
ing the furry marsupials is to shoot or
poison them.
* * * *
“Y. Mee”: Having had the ashes of
some departed poured over me from a
specially-chartered plane, and those of
seafarers come floating inshore to mingle
with the hurley, I’ve decided that exhibi-
tionism should be carried out properly.
I’ve now added a codicil to my will direct-
ing that my cadaver be deposited on the
tiles of my home to be plucked clean by
my favorite crows, and that the skeleton
be articulated and suspended over the
front-gate.
* * * *
“H.H.”: “23-4” (B. 2/7/’49) asks
what sort of curs were those that cringe
when they hear foxes at night. Kelpies,
and good ones, too. I’ve yet to see a
dog who is as game tackling a fox at
night as he is in daylight. Incidentally,
A. G. Zwar, Victoria’s biggest stud-
turkey breeder at The Ranch, Broad-
ford, put 3000 of his birds to roost in
the paddocks on portable piping struc-
tures surrounded by six dogs tied to wires
so they can move around the mob. Zwar
thought for a time the dogs were of the
imaginary strain “23-4” talks about until
he began to lose six or eight gobblers
a night to foxes getting through the
cordon. But the cunning ones would
never have penetrated that line of keen
dogs in daylight.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: If “Berilbill” (B.
20/7/’49) thought he would find the lyre-
bird and the koala occupying the same
class of country he was imagining a vain
thing. The lyrebird is never found out-
side rangy, mountainous country timbered
with our largest eucalypts —blue-gum,
white-gum, messmate, peppermint, moun-
tain-ash, with a dense growth of tree-
ferns, scrub wattle, hop scrub, hazel,
musk, dogweed and bracken and in some
localities myrtle or beech, blackwood,
giant wattle and sassafras. Ideal country
for the lyrebird, but no earthly use to
the bear, who stubbornly refuses to re-
gard the foliage of the big mountain
eucalypts as an article of food and keeps
to the open forests of the lower foot-
hills and the flat country, where he finds
ample supplies of his favorite fodder-
red-gum, swamp-gum, sugar-gum, etc.
When I was doing survey 40 years
ago in the big-timber country be-
tween the head-waters of the King
and Broken rivers, there were thou-
sands of lyrebirds but not a single
koala. I rode through a section of the
King-river country a few years ago, and
in a journey of about 30 miles I heard
the far resounding “plirk-plirk —plirk-
plirk-plirk” of the lyrebird just five
times. The lyrebird’s habit of building
its nest close to the ground makes its
solitary chick easy meat for the fox, and
if it persists in that foolish habit it is
only a matter of time when it will follow
the koala into virtual extinction.
FIFTY YEARS AGO.
The bushfire burned the country black,
Burnt tree and grass and fence,
Took roost on house and shed and stack
In crimson insolence.
The land was cooked, the stock had fled,
It was a sorry show;
Bui it was not the fire, he said,
Of fifty years ago.
Down came the rain, the rivers rose,
The creeks burst into flood,
The flats were lakes, and all that grows
Lay groaning under mud;
The roads were blocked, the fowls swam dead,
On roofs folk clung in woe;
But it was not the flood, he said,
Of fifty years ago.
The ’hoppers came in hordes untold
And ate each blade of green,
Stripped bare the land for fold on fold
Where waving crops had been;
From farm to farm the myriads spread,
Striking fresh blow on blow;
But it was not the plague, he said,
Of fifty years ago.
Then came the drought and dried the land,
The earth lay all forlorn,
And every farmer raised his hand
And cursed that he was born;
Week after week the sun burned red,
Dams dried, and naught would grow;
But it was not the drought, he said,
Of fifty years ago.
Next came the season flushed with rain,
The fields were crisp and green,
The crops were high, and once again
A cocky’s smile was seen;
The springing earth, so richly fed,
Made men’s hearts ripe to crow;
But these were not the crops, he said,
Of fifty years ago.
And then he died, as all men must
Go back unto the clay,
And men rolled up—as men most just —
Their last respects to pay;
And as they bent each silent head
O’er his last bed below;
But not the graves, each sly eye said.
Of fifty years ago.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


*
/
ee
Safeguarding Estate Investments
demands this specialised knowledge
■pAMILIARITY with legal requirements,
A investment values, taxation and property
details is a paramount responsibility of the
Executor or Trustee charged with the duty of
administering an estate involving commercial
or pastoral interests. Such knowledge is far
beyond individual capacity.
The Union Trustee Company is well qualified
by nearly 65 years’ experience to accept this
responsibility, and will act either jointly with,
or in place of, those who seek relief from such
onerous tasks. Charges are moderate ; service
is most comprehensive.
You are invited to call —or write for a copy of “Important
Facts Concerning Wills, Executors, Trustees ”
the union trustee
COMPANY OF
AUSTRALIA LTD*
(Incorporated In Victoria) Established 1885
333 Collins St, Melbourne; 2 O’Connell St, Sydney; 398-402 Queen St,Brisbane; and atAibury, Townsville,Toowoomba and Rockhampton
The only Trustee company having offices each with its own Board of Directors and management in three States — Victoria, New South Wales and Queensland
the WILDAL COUMN
Malley’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
, —■ —Dividends Towards
Pref. Re- Be-
April, Profit. 6.97 p.c. Ordinaries. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1940.. 15,241 2092 Nil 13,149 28,118
7 p.c.
1941.. 18,098 2100 7p.c. = 14,000 1,998 30,116
1942.. 22,502 2100 7 „ ~ 14,000 6,402 36,518
1943.. 21,873 2100 7 „ ~ 14,000 5,773 42,291
8 p.c.
1944.. 30.069 2400 8 „ „ 16,000 11,669 53,960
1945.. 28.449 2400 8 ~ ~ 16,000 10,049 64,000
1946.. 33,365 2400 8 „ ~ 16,000 14,965 78,974
9 p.c.
1947.. 36.755.2700 10 „ ~25,983 8,072 87,046
From tax reserve, £9433 .. .. 96,479
1948. .50,626 2700 10 p.c. = 30,000 17,926 114,405
To Inner reserves, £5OOO .. .. 109,405
Share premiums, £112,500 .. .. 221,905
1949, 2700 10 p.c. = 32,875 13,485 235,390
To cope with the expanding market for
builders’ and plumbers’ hardware, dairy
utensils, kitchenware, etc., Malley’s built
a new factory and offices at Auburn, ex-
panded the main works at Alexandria and
gathered £225,000 of fresh capital, which
brought with it £112,500 of share
premiums, all within the last three years.
The first £lOO,OOO of the new capital was
issued at par in 1946, and the other'
£125,000, issued in Nov,, 1948, carried a
premium of 90 p.c. (18s. a share) at the
direction of capital-control authority.
Since the premium, which has been added
to reserves, makes the 10 p.c. div, worth
only 5.2 p.c. on this last issue, and since
the price of the ords. has fallen to 395.
in the market (the figure stood at 455.
early in 1949), the result of Government
discrimination against shareholders as a
class by mixing quasi-socialistic notions
with domestic co. finance is now made
plain in a practical way.
In a desire to defeat the ends of the
speculator the Government has succeeded
in penalising the genuine investor. So
far as effective usage is concerned, there
is no difference between capital injected
into a business in the form of shares and
capital representing premiums on shares.
Equity demands that shareholders should
have the right, in proportion to the par
value of their holdings, to participate fully
in the prosperity of their own undertak-
ing, irrespective of what happens in the
sharemarket, where marginal operators
and a host of short-term considerations
often exert a strong influence on price.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts turnover was “fully”
maintained in all sections of the business.
But profit was £1566 lower, because more
of the takings were swallowed by costs,
which were bumped up by recurrent
wage-lifts, introduction of the 40-hour
week (which has meant more wages for
lower per capita output), and interrup-
tion of production by failure of the
publicly-owned electric-power supply.
The £49,060 of profit, written after allow-
ing £17,021 (up £7839) for depreciation
and something for taxation, was 13.6 p.c.
on average capital (pref. and ord. com-
bined) as against 15.3, 12.6 and 14.5 p.c.
for the three preceding terms, and an
average of 9.8 p.c. for the six years be-
fore that. The ords. got 10 p.c. again—
best rate paid in the last 30 years—and
for the'third time since 1929 the prefs.
(30,000 9 per cents, subject to the out-
moded N. S. Wales Interest Reduction
Act) received their full contract rate.
Despite the existence of a strong
potential demand for the co.’s products,
which is likely to continue for some time,
and the assistance of more share capital
and interest-and-dividend-free share-
premium money, the jolt to production
and sales and inevitable aggravation of
the costs problem caused by the coal
strike will make it difficult to maintain
last year’s rate of earning for the current
term. After the strike ends it will take
some time for trade and industry to get
into full swing again.
Expansion of the business 1 has been well
balanced;
1946. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital£23o,ooo £323,526 £330,000 £435,470
Overdraft* .. 81,677 58,279
Creditors, etc. 108,720 159,273* 120,198* 94,597*
Freeholds .. 112,006 122,842 160,050 191,167
Plant, etc... 56,287 68,231 88,823 126,867
Stock ..165,654 204,368 255,084 342,425
Book debts 106,787 148,857 153,896 193,306
Cash, etc. 12,075 58,194 14,089 5,000
Goodwill, etc. 22,682 22,682 22,682 22,682
* Includes provision for taxation.
The year’s net addition to the book-
value of freehold was £31,117, plant
£37,544, stock £87,341 and book debts
£39,410. The more-or-less liquid surplus
(£387,855) increased by £166,661, and
there was'£l9,s3o of new share money
still to come when the books closed.
At 395. the ords, return 5.1 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis. Last sale of the prefs.
was at 345., yielding 5.9 p.c. on a 9 p.c.
distribution. Net tangible cover is
£22 13s, 7d. prefs. and 30s. 7d. ords.
Hume Steel, Ltd.
/ Dividends x >
Net Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. 7$ p.c. 2} p.c. serves. serves.*
£> £ £ £ £
1942.. 23,521 11,250 6,250 6,021 151,746
Plant-expansion reserve appears,
£lO 977 162 723
1943.. 29,725 11,250 6,250 ” 12,225 174^948
1944.. 42,302 11,250 6,250 24,802 199,750
1945.. 29,205 11,250 Nil 17,955 217,705
Premiums, new share-issue, £36,127.. 253,832
Written off to plant expansion,
£26,167 227,665
1946.. 32,586 16,875 Nil 15,711 248,376
1947.. 9,107 18,750 Nil 233,733
Assets fluctuation reserve, £99,997.. 338,730
Exchange reserve, £6571 .. .. 340,301
1948.. 19,616 18,750 Nil 765 341,066
* After deducting intangibles, now £25,900.
Uninterrupted production, a better
volume of sales and increased plant effi-
ciency enabled the co. to operate at lower
cost and show better but si ill-moderate
profit last term. The co.’s 10 factories in
Australia and New Zealand turn out pipes
for water-supply undertakings, etc., and
are capable of fabricating three times
the tonnage of steel procurable to date.
At current rate of supply—before the
coal strike—it would take five years to
complete deliveries of steel plates now on
order for contracts in hand. So further
recovery of both sales and earnings de-
pend primarily upon the flow of steel,
which in turn depends upon a sufficiency
of coal and adequate labor force.
Last term’s £19,515 of profit—second-
poorest showing in the last 13 years—
was written after charging £38,884 (up
£18,597) for depreciation and £21,500 (up
£16,500) for taxation. It was 3.9 p.c. on
the £500,000 of capital (half 1\ p.c. cum.
prefs. and the other half ords.), and only
£765 more than the pref. div. called for.
The ords. have had only five lots of 2\
p.c. since the co. was formed in 1923,
when the parent Hume Pipe Co. and W.
R. Hume were handed 165,000 and 85,000
paids respectively for rights. The public
put up the cash by subscribing for the
pref. shares, last 100,000 of which, issued
in 1945, carried an unjustified premium
(fixed by the Capital Control Board) of
7s. 6d, each, reducing the actual return
on this lot to 51 p.c.
Co.’s other chief potential source of
income is its holding of 211,932 £1 ords.
in Hume Industries (Far East), Ltd., of
which 99,997 were received as bonus
scrip last term, and an assets-fluctuation
reserve has been set up against them. The
Far East Co. (Singapore) was formed in
1922, and did well on a capital of £50,000,
which was increased to £75,000 in 1937.
The figure had grown to £291,681 in
March, 1947, and then shot up to £950,000
in 250,000 5 p.c. cum. par. prefs. and
700,000 ords. The prefs. were taken for
•cash by those on Hume Pipe’s and Hume
Steel’s registers. Growth in ord. capital
has been as follows:
Hume Hume
Pipe. Steel. Total.
Previously held ~ 216,670 75,003 291,673
Bonus issue .. 209,717 99,997 309,714
Taken for cash .. 61,681 36,932 98,618
Total .. .. 488,068 211,932 ‘ 700,000
The bonus scrip came from a surplus of
£421,858 on revaluation of properties in
1946. For the year to Dec. 31, 1948, co.
netted £69,077, or 12 p.c. on its £950,000
of capital. That was after charging
£33,861 for depreciation and £38,141
(£18,197 of it in respect of the previous
term) for taxation, A 5 p.c. ord. div.
would be worth £10,569 to Hume Steel,
or 2.3 p.c, on its ord. capital, which is
held mostly by Hume Pipe. Besides con-
crete and steel pipes, the Far East Co.
makes cement-asbestos products, is en-
gaged in general and electrical engineer-
ing, and, in conjunction with a U.S. co.,
in manufacture of steel oil-drums. A
contract with the Singapore Municipality
will keep the steel plant profitably occu-
pied for the next three years or more.
In Hume Steel’s accounts the holding
in other cos. increased by £136,932 :
1945. 1946. 1947. 1948.
Paid capital. . £400,000 £500,000 £500,000 £500,000
Sundry credit’s* 337,212 382,876 374,226 374,248
Freehold and
leasehold .. 60,433 81,120 95,981 97,176
Plant . . 165,854 211,170 231,590 219,359
Stocks • • 165,621 165,103 173,342 173,577
Contracts .. 82,251 129,886 131,524 99,949
Book debts .. 166,060 215,824 153,416 171,861
Cash, etc. . . 25,777 37,704 36,466 80,900
Shares other cos, 264,628 264,628 264,628 401,560
Asbestos deposit 30,018 30,192 30,387 80,307
Patents .. 26,900 25,900 25,900 25,900
* Including tax provision.
A contraction of £18,483 in the more-or-
less liquid surplus (£102,039) was due to
the scrip taken for cash in the Far East
Co.
At 275. 6d. this steel co.’s prefs., covered
by 675. 3d. in net tangibles, yield 5.4 p.c.
The ords. are not listed.
Equitable Probate & General Ins. Co.
Life Depaktment.
Sent.. Income. Claims. Exes. Life Fund.
£ £ £ £
1944 . . 107,832 35,622 54,641 607,795
1945 . . 113,307 51,571 26,559 642,972
1946 . . 126,786 57,971 33,513 678,274
To'p. and 1. account, £2986 •• 675,288
Special actuarial reserve, £10,378 685,666
1947 .. 148,022 42,034 48,641 743,013
1948 . . 199.398 50,432 77,430 814,549
This is the co. in which the Equitable
Life Insurance Co. of Australia and the
Queensland Probate Insurance Co,, two
post-World War X fledglings which lost
a lot of money in an expensive hunt for
business, merged their interests in 1934.
The new co. kicked off with a paid
capital of £252,000-odd, all of which, and
more besides, was represented by intan-
gibles. The drift was soon arrested, but,
apart from payment of regular bonuses
to policyholders, the co. has been unable
to make much progress toward the
elimination of intangibles. When the
books closed in 1945 net tangible assets
were £775 short of the life fund, leaving
the whole of the capital still unrepre-
sented by tangibles.
Since then the co. has taken a new lease
of life. The amount of new business put
on the books last term was six times
greater than in 1945, but it has been very
expensive to gather. And, with the easing
of interest rates, the need arose to
strengthen the basis of interest used in
valuing policy liabilities in order to protect
future bonus-paying capacity. To provide
the extra actuarial reserves to do this —
the valuation rate was lowered from 4
p.c. to 3i p.c.—and provide a little tan-
gible backing for capital, shareholders
dredged up £84,512 net of uncalled
capital, lifting the paid-up figure at Sept.
30, 1947, to £338,726 in 775,984 shares of
10s. each, of which 66,540 were fully
paid and the balance called to 9s. each.
Last term it was decided to tidy up the
accounts by rubbing out £276,725 of in-
tangibles—purchase and establishment
account £253,645, fire and accident debit
£15,037 and agent’s balances £8034. So
two-thirds of the capital was written off
(providing £258,388) and the forfeited
share reserve (£29,754) was wiped out. At
the same time the old written-down shares
were exchanged for new 10s. units. Allow-
ing for forfeitures, outstanding calls, etc.,
paid capital is now £89,337 in 256,006 10s.
shares, of which 22,180 are fully paid
and the rest called to 7s. each. And, for
the first time, shareholders can now see
the whole of their capital intact and
£22,617 besides, with the possibility of
very modest dividends in the future. No
harm would have been done if most of
the surplus on shareholders’ account had
been used to further strengthen the basis
of valuation of policy liabilities.
Here is the position, past and present,
as balance-sheet figures show it:
1945. 1947. 1948.
BSS SSffi '} ‘
Office equipment, etc... 4,449 8,971 10,581
Govt, securities .. 372,690 349,871 379,871
Shares and debentures.. 89,214 142,679 194,978
Mortgages .. •. 96,951 89,313
Book debts, etc. .. 13,518 19,242 21,628
Cash 5,971 14,462 15,311
Total . . .. 669,112 886,334 968,118
Sundry creditors .. 26,915 31,024 87,845
Net tangible assets . . 642,197 855,310 930,268
Life fund .. .. 642,972 743,018 814,549
Paid capital .. .. 254,214 838,726 89,337
Of the net tangibles £818,314 belong to
policyholders and £111,954 to share-
holders. The £111,954 consists of Gov-
ernment securities £105,000, cash and
book-debts £6546 net and office equip-
ment, etc,, £4OB. So policyholders in the
life department are providing the office
premises and most of the equipment to
enable shareholders to conduct not only
life business, but a small fire, accident
and general section as well —no mention
is made of what rental is paid for this
service. /
Last term £1,834,188 (up £658,713) of
new business was written, the average
amount per policy being £249 (up £6O)
and the average premium per cent.
£3 18s. 7d. Income (£199,398) stepped
up by £51,376, and, after paying claims
and exes., £71,536 was added to the life
fund, making it £814,549. Excluding de-
preciation, taxes, etc., exes, made off with
41.3 p.c, of the net premiums as against
40.4 p.c. and 31.5 p.c. for the two preced-
ing years. The actuary allowed an aver-
age of 24.4 p.c. of office premiums for
exes. After deducting taxes, the net effec-
tive rate of interest earned on the life
fund was £4 7s. lOd. p.c. (down 2s. 2d.),
The actuarial surplus (excess of life
fund over policy liabilities) for the two
years to Sept. 30, 1948, was £44,807, of
which £38,213 was distributed as bonus
among policyholders, £2OOO was reserved
for interim bonuses and £4594 was carried
forward. Nothing was recommended for
transfer to shareholders’ account. Bonus
rates last year were 21s. 3d. p.c. on whole-
life and 17s. p.c. on endowment con-
tracts, as against 425. 6d. p.c. and 345. p.c.
respectively before that.
The small fire and accident section
showed a surplus of income over outgo
of £714.
Maryborough Knitting Mills (Vic.)
Dividends. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. All Shares. serves. serves.
1940.. 9,597 11.1 p.c. = 4,626 4,971 49,398
1941.. 15,469 16.7 „ „ 9,253 6,216 55,614
1942.. 13,875 16.7 „ „ 9,253 4,622 60,236
1943.. 11,037 13.9 „ „ 7,710 3,327 63,563
1944.. 11,744 13.9 „ „ 7,710 4,034 67,597
1945.. 9,295 13.9 „ „ 7,710 1,585 69,182
1946.. 9,290 13.9 „ „ 7,710 1,580 70,762
1947.. 14,386 16.6 „ „ 9,253 5,133 75,895
To staff fund, £l2OO 74,695
1948.. 17,441 22.2 p.c. = 13,236 4,205 78,900
1949.. 22,329 22.2 „ „ 16,383 5,946 84,846
This little 26-year-old, which claims to
have the largest underwear manufactur-
ing plant in the Commonwealth, appears
well equipped to continue giving a good
account of itself. The main factory is
at Maryborough (Vic.), and, to help cope
with the labor problem, three annexes—at
Dunoily, Talbot and Avoca —have been
successfully established. In Nov., 1947,
53,953 new 9s. ords. were issued at par
to help finance the growth in turnover,
much of which is expected to be per-
manent. That lifted paid capital to
£79,794 in 52,525 prefs. and 124,795
ords., all 9s. each —the prefs. carry a
cumulative 8 p.c. and advance with the
ords. beyond that rate, but do not share
in surplus assets!
Despite the rise in prices following
withdrawal of the subsidy on wool, turn-
over increased by 20 p.c. last term. Exes.
(£48,723, up £6113) took 68.6 p.c. of
gross earnings (£71,052, up £11,001), com-
pared with 71 p.c. in 1948, and 73.2 p.c.
in 1945, The net result (£22,329, up
£4888) was the best yet, being 30.2 p.c.
on average capital (pref. and ord. com-
bined) as against 29.2, 25.9, 16.7 and
16.7 p.c. back to 1945. So the board had


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 jCollins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of All classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone: MX 2208.
AIL-BRITISH
GIVES
PERSONALITY
TO YOUR
WRITING i
sdf
THE POPULAR PEN
with the
MARVELLOUS NIB
Conwoy Stewart- & Co. Ltd.,
London.
S. W. RAMSAY
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
62 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
m
M
m
By Appointment
Gin Distillers
«• H.M. Kin| George Vf
ffaaqaerty. Gordon ft Co LiS
ordotfs
Stands Supk&msis
sdf
MEMORISE
WITH EASE
Pass Examinations.
Speak Without Notes.
Grip Lodge Ritual.
Send stamp for booklet.
Rev. W. Rowlands
12 Younger Grove,
Caulfield, S.E. 8, Vic.
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies ... .. .. 2/-
Yearly Subscription.. ..,22/6
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper
Co. Pty., Ltd., Sydney.
A
1 1
vv-fr ' <,-f
5?
sw
.. nrli/Ti■■ I-J '~
as: :*
110
H.P. DIESEL ENGINE
Powered with the WonderfuL
A.E.C. Diesel engine. "The most
tested engine in the world."
8
SPEEDS FORWARD —
2 REVERSE
Heavy-duty double-reduction
front and rear drives.
8
TONS CAPACITY
FOR TIPPING WORK
•Jg TONS WITH
TRAILER
4
V
WHEEL DRIVE
Selective 2 or 4 wheel
drive for heavy duty
haulage under abnormal
conditions.
HASTINGS DEERING BUILDING
William Street, Sydney. Crown Street Corner
■Phone M 0412 (25 lines)
DSL-2
1100x20
TYRES. Standard equipment.
115
TO 1
total reduction in
first gear.
2-9
TO 1 REDUCTION
AUXILIARY _
17,000
lbs. WINCH
Heavy - duty
capacity with 250
ft. of cable.
“THE INDESTRUCTIBLE CHASSIS”
in the Heavy Duty Truck complete with
compressed air-operated brakes.
POST COUPON TODAY!
The Secretary, Hastings Deering Building Ltd.,
Bex 4333, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please send me full particulars of the A.E.C. Diesel 110 H.P.
trucks.
YOUR NAME
YOUR ADDRESS B 3?
no difficulty in repeating the
22.2 p.c. distribution, of which
5.6 p.c, is labelled bonus. And
the £5946 that remained lifted
reserves £5052 higher than paid
capital, which partly explains
the high rate of earning on capi-
tal alone.
Last term’s bigger trading and
rise in prices show up in an ad-
dition of £14,150 to stocks and
of £10,870 to debtors’ balances:
1947. 1948. 1949.
Capital ..- £55,515 £67,655 £79,794
Liabilities* 28,296 78,455 84,768
Freeholds .. 14,657 16,355 21,579
Plant, etc. 18,723 18,468 16,362
Debtors .. 33,419 59,879 70,156
Stock .. 89,807 132,181 146,281
Shares .. 3,000 3,000 3,000
Cash, etc... 14,153 14,422 14,413
* Including tax provision.
Stock, which is the item that
catches the eye, is in at cost or
valuation, and £30,000 of the
co.’s reserves are earmarked for
contingencies. The efficient
plant, chief earning asset, ap-
pears at only a, small fraction of
its present worth. Purchase of
a new and larger factory site at
Maryborough and of the free-
hold of the Dunolly premises
sent the book-value of freeholds
up by £5224. The more-or-less
liquid surplus was £149,082 (up
£18,114);
With the change in outlook
the market is doubtful how long
the 22.2 p.c. distribution will
continue. It therefore prices the
ords. at 265. as against 325. six
months ago. The return at 265.
would be 7,7 p.c. on a 22.2 p.c.
distribution,'or 5.7 p.c, on a 16.6
p.c. div. basis. Cover is 225. 7d.
a share in net tangibles. The
prefs. seldom appear on
’Change.
Ore - treatment at Paringa
(Kalgoorlie), seventh - largest
gold-producer in Westralia, may
need to be suspended in share-
holders’ interests, says chairman
S. C. Beale. After receiving
£13,390 in Government assist-
ance co. netted £2343 (down
£14,686), or 0.8 p.c. on its
£270,440 of capital, for year to
Aug, 31, 1948. Shareholders,
who received 12i p.c., subject
to English income tax of 9s. in
the £, for the three preceding
years, were passed by. At
152,675 tons, averaging 5.24dwt,
measured ore reserves are a
couple of years ahead of present
mill capacity, with prospects of
more higher-grade stuff being
opened up in the lower levels.
And some encouraging diamond-
drill results have been obtained
on the co.’s Maritana leases, on
the southern boundary of the
Mt, Charlotte property. How
the steep rise in costs, aggra-
vated by the labor problem, has
affected production by eliminat-
ing marginal-grade ore is illus-
trated by Westralia’s gold out-
put, which was only 662,741 fine
oz. from 2,447,545 tons ore for
1948 as against 1,172,950 fine
oz. from 3,759,120 tons ore in
1938. Until some way is found
of overcoming the objections of
the International Monetary
Fund and the U.S. to a higher
price for gold the industry looks
like remaining in the doldrums.
* * * »
London - controlled Gold
Fields Australian Development,
which is interested in a
number of Westralian gold ven-
tures, records a loss of £5483
for 1948, At end December
last co. held current assets of
£77,715 to meet outside liabili-
ties of £6200. Last div. was 5
p.c. in 1940, and it is difficult
to say when the next one might
be paid. Co. owns the Mt Ida
Gold Mine, near Menzies, and
all the £300,000 of paid capital
in Moonlight Wiluna Gold
Mines, Ltd., which owns the
Moonlight mine (closed down in
1945), a, one-third interest in
Porphyry goldmine. North
Coolgardie, and a 25 p.c. in-
terest in the Mount Charlotte
mine at Kalgoorlie, At Mt.
Ida driving and crosscutting
have exposed 243 ft. of 6,9dwt.
ore over a width of 42in. on No.
5 level (550 ft), and 1187 ft. of
9.ldwt. ore, width 42in., on No.
4 level. Development continues.
At Porphyry, where 750,000
tons of 4dwt. ore has been dis-
closed, work has been limited
to power-house and mill prepa-
ration. The mine has been put
on a care - and - maintenance
basis until conditions in the in-
dustry improve. At Mt. Char-
lotte, in which Wiluna Gold
Mines, Ltd., holds the other 75
p.c. interest, work at the 300 ft
level has been disappointing,
and expenditure on surface
equipment has been reduced to
a minimum pending the result
of further exploration. The
hunt for a worth-while tin
property in Malaya has been
held up by disturbed conditions
there.


It must
he
:
r.. m
-4 tenfold Hospital
grand cigarette for
all occasiohs-
Capstan’s own blend
of fine Virginia
leaf cannot
be equalled
2$
That’s why it’s always
TIME FOR A CAPSTAN
xbbod-
THE EMPIRE'S FAVOURED CIGARETTE
’.48 __ _
Business.Rolleuy.Rtc.
The Financial Scene
The most important event
affecting the Australian eco-
nomic world last week was the
announcement of the Privy
Council’s dismissal of the Com-
monwealth Government’s ap-
peal against the verdict of the
High Court in the Bank Grab
case. Reasons for the dismissal
are not yet known, but by a
process of elimination of clues
it would appear that the Gov-
ernment has again fallen down
because Section 92 of the Con-
stitution prohibits restraint of
inter-State trade and commerce.
While it would thus seem that
the Commonwealth is for ever
(subject to amendment of the
Constitution by referendum)
barred from establishing a bank-
ing monopoly, its powers under
the 1945 Act, which trans-
ferred war-time powers into the
years of peace, are very wide
and impose severe restraint upon
freedom of action by the trad-
ing banks.
If the dismissal of the Gov-
ernment’s case was because of
Section 92, then the prospect of
a Commonwealth Government
monopoly in any industry be-
comes remote indeed. Without
a Constitutional alteration the
“socialisation of the means of
production, distribution and ex-
change,” which is the funda-
mental platform of the
Socialists, becomes a Common-
wealth impossibility while the
Section-92 provision remains. It
would probably be useless for
any of the States, however
Socialistic their Governments
might be, to attempt wholesale
socialisation on their own.
The coal strike continued last
week, with its effects by far the
most serious in N. S. Wales,
which normally provides the
Commonwealth with nine-tenths
of its black coal. Even if the
miners go back to work this
week or next, and even if power
starts to flow from the metro-
politan powerhouses within a
few days of the coalfields’ re-
starting, some industries will
suffer several weeks’ lag in get-
ting back into production. The
building and construction trades
will be among the last to return
to full operation because of
their dependence upon steel,
bricks, etc., which will be par-
ticularly slow in coming for-
ward. The Socialists have
handled the strike like a hot
potato, but if they are able to
convince the electorate that they
have done anything more than
temporise and shilly-shally
during the whole wicked up-
heaval they will be lucky be-
yond even Mr, Chifley’s antici-
pations, which are based on the
belief that Australians have
short memories.
The wool clip las? yeaf was
valued at £194 million, up £39
million; greasy wool averaged
4s. a pound—nearly four times
as much as the price fixed under
the British Government’s war-
time acquisition scheme arranged
just on 10 years ago. High prices
for the clip have had a very in-
fluential effect on the whole
Australian economy, and have
helped the country to pay for
the rising cost of imports. Last
week Australian funds abroad
notched a new record of £382
million. These funds are mostly
sterling. We are still desperately
short of dollar funds and rely
on the sterling area to finance
our dollar deficit, estimated to
be $7O million for 1948-49.
The new financial year has
begun with personal taxation
rates lower than last year. No
relief has been granted to com-
panies. Mr. Chifley had a very
large concealed surplus in his
accounts for last year; it would
appear to have been at least
£5O million. But the Canberra
Socialists always tend to lean
towards enlarged expenditure
when flush with money;
economy and encouragement to
private enterprise by tax reduc-
tions were not taught in their
catechism/
The sharemarket took an up-
ward turn last week, partly for
the reason that the previous
slump in prices of a number of
issues had been too heavy any-
way. There was well-deserved
recovery in Bradford
Cotton, Electrolytic Zinc and
Bank of N. S. Wales. There is
normally a seasonal recovery
about this time of the year fol-
lowing the weakness that has
become a feature of February
and March. This year there was
an additional slump in June,
linked with the fall in metal and
other prices overseas and re-
ports of an economic slump in
the United States. Metals have
since recovered somewhat in
America, and the sharemarket
has noted the trend.
Maoriland Conditions
Inflationary and deflationary
trends are in conflict in New
Zealand, where the overvalued
pound is locked in behind
closely-guarded doors, and infla-
tion so far is easily having the
best of the combat. But for
controls, tightened up since
Maoriland’s leap to par with
sterling, there’d be a drain of
capital to Australia and else-
where where currencies are
firmer and M.L.’s paper pros-
perity would be quickly de-
flated ; but that can’t happen
now.
Behind the barriers the
volume of bank-notes and de-
posits is rising, and the pace
shows signs of speeding-up
'while Labor-Socialist Ministers,
ostrich-like, see Maoriland only
as a fairyland of high prosperity.
It’s an unreal picture, which
contrasts with the advancing
flood of bank-notes, now £soi
million, against £l6 million be-
fore the war, and bank deposits
of £284 million (Reserve Bank
£92 million and trading banks
£192 million), against £B2 mil-
lion in 1939, while business and
industry struggle to keep their
heads above water.
Maorilanders with funds to
lend don’t like the trend,
and have been crowding the
gilt-edged- market, where buy-
ing pressure has been mount-
ing for months past. But so far
the swing hasn’t curbed State
spending, because “Labor”
financiers have turned to the Re-
serve Bank and milked it heavily
for new credit. The Govern-
ment has snapped its fingers at
old-fashioned investors who
have tried to apply the brake,
l?ut if it carries on along this
line the money-wise figure out
there’ll be a painful day of
reckoning. It’s just a thinly-
disguised form of robbery, and
in the long run everyone must
pay the piper.
Late in July the Public Trust
Office, one of M.L.’s biggest
public lending, institutions, was
forced to chop its interest rate
from 3i to 3 p.c. in a strenuous
effort to attract borrowers for
its accumulating funds, and
other institutions, including in-
surance cos. and societies, trus-
tees and individual lenders, are
in a similar fix. The difficulty
will grow until the Government
wakes up to the error of its ways.
Oil Search
“Lemon”: Following the
silence of Australasian Petro-
leum ;as to an oil-strike, the
Port Moresby rumor-factory be-
came more specific and issued
a statement that pumping
machinery was being transported
to the co.’s drilling-site, presum-
ably at Oroi.
Pumping machinery, anyway,
is an integral item in boring
equipment, but the A.P.C.
manager, L. A. Pym, squashed
any attempt to boost shares on
false premises by flatly denying
that any pumping equipment
was being shipped. He pointed
out that the machinery being
imported was for operations on
two new drilling-sites and was
part of a speeding-up pro-
gramme, details of which had
been furnished to the Press
some time back. If oil were
“This will do nicely — she's smaller than me!”
struck an announcement would
be made by the co.
This statement caused Oil
Search shares to edge back, but
a small parcel of Papuan
Apinaipi stock changed hands
at a penny above par.
The knowledge that any news
of a real strike would be issued
officially takes the wind out of
the sails of the “experts” who
forgather at the “top” and
“bottom” bars at Port Moresby,
and' is a sad blow to their main-
land cobbers who wish to use
Papuan oil shares as lucrative
gambling-counters.
„ rI CT* * •
u WMe N.Z. engineers,
builders, farmers and allotment-
holders laying out paths on new
home-sites clamor for cement
and Maoriland’s leading source
of supply, Wilsons (N.Z.) Port-
land Cement, Ltd., jogs along
in low gear, on only a trickle
of coal, cement bought from
John Bull is being carried half-
way round the world to help
satisfy M.L.’s most urgent needs,
There’s plenty of reserve
capacity in M.L. works to cope
with all orders if the coal was
there and plant had a fair run,
but lack of fuel has chopped
down Wilsons’ output by an
average of more than 30,000 tons
yearly for over three years, and
other works are having trouble,
too. With plant partly idle and
reserves of £221,916, equal to
nearly 40 p.c. of its £600,000
capital, to draw on to modernise
and expand, directors say “noth-
ing doing” until coal supplies
flow more freely. Profit, how-
ever, is more than holding its
own, and reached £82,622 (to
March 31), against £45,773 in
1948, while investments yielded
£30,950 besides. On the strength
0 f the best result since 1940,
h as been lifted \ p.c. to
5 p C .
,
It is reported from London
that Australia’s dollar deficit for
the .year to June 30 was $7O
million, compared with an esti-
mate of $5O million. The coal
strike now is increasing dollar
expenditure on petrol and diesel
fuels for the 1949-50 term.


S Reasons
for appointing Perpetual
Trustee Company limited
Your Executor & Trustee.
1. The management of Estates Is Its central and
primary purpose. Its service is perpetual.
2. It is not subject to the disadvantages of
illness or old age.
3. It is never absent, but always available for*
consultation.
4. It is familiar with all Income, inheritance,
gift, property and taxation problems.
5. It has the background of 62 years’ experience
in the handling of Estates of many different
kinds Investment, Industrial and Pastoral.
6. It has gained the confidence of the public to
such a degree that It has grown to be one
, of the largest Trustee Companies in the
‘ world.
7. Its organisation is such that the size of an
Estate does not goyern the quality of its
administration.
8. The Capital and Reserves of the Company,
amounting to £500,231 provide tangible
security for its Its uncalled
capital of £BOO,OOO, is an additional safeguard.
Call or write for a copy of the booklet “Your
Executor & Trustee”. It explains the services the
Company has to offer and its charges.
PERPETUAL
TRUSTEE COMPANY
LIMITED
Trust and Agency Funds
under administration exceed
£67,000,000 (The average
Estate being less than
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE
AGENT UNDER POWER OP
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES
A OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR,
ETC.
Directors:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman; E. R. KNOX;
ALLEN C. LEWIS; Hon. J. P. ABBOTT, M.H.R.; D. R. LYSAGHT:
SAMUEL HORDERN; H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director.
G. ARMYTAGE, Manager.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WAGGA WAGGA, TAMWORTH and ORANGE
LONDON AIRMAIL
From Herbert Holman
London’s squares and parks
and commons have lost their
dewy glister. Because of the
drought they have a mealy,
threadbare look, with the arid
yellow of the scorched grass
putting to shame the fading
green. Even the usually well-
nourished Lord’s has a new and
double-tinted appearance. The
“table” and infield suggest that
the sprinkler is allowed j;o give
no better attention than mere
first-aid, while the outfield is
parched, sickly and neglected.
Life goes on much the same
as before. The general attitude
is that we’ve had droughts be-
fore and recovered from them-
Moreover, unlike other less
natural but more disturbing
crises, there are substantial com-
pensations. While potato and
broccoli crops are in danger,
corn prospects are good and
wheat excellent. Winter oats
and barley are already being
cut, hay gathered, and farmers
look forward pleasurably to an
early harvest.
With this island’s uncertain
summer, warm, dry weather for
weekends and holidays is every-
body’s dofcbting wish: we have
enjoyed this kind of weather,
with a heat-wave and hours of
unbroken sunshine, for many
weeks.
Party Loyalty
The complexities of interna-
tional finance, even to the more
responsible citizens, tend to be
abstruse and incomprehensible.
Financial experts unfortunately
don’t seem able to combine
simplicity of exposition with
specialised knowledge, so that
it’s doubtful whether most
people have any but a vague
understanding of the ramifica-
tions of the dollar gap. But
they do know that there is such
a thing, that it has a vital effect
upon their lives and that it
grows bigger, with the conse-
quence that the nation’s eco-
nomic position gets worse and
worse.
The Chancellor of the Ex-
chequer’s marking-time speech
did nothing to check mounting
concern. What he said, although
monotonously true, lamentably
understated the crisis. Although
the country was in crisis mood,
the Chancellor had nothing new
or positive to say. His words
of restraint didn’t prevent the
miners and the railwaymen from
pressing next day for substantial
increases in minimum wage-
rates, nor did they prevent the
dock strike from spreading.
The Labor Government’s
double life is becoming more
and more of an embarrassment,
both to themselves and to the
nation; and it seems now to be
affecting the actions of their
sternest realist, for even
Cripps is betraying signs of
yielding to that insidious drug
party loyalty. While the harsh
compulsion of home and foreign
.affairs calls for a full-time effort,
the peculiar circumstances of
the Socialists’ tenure force them
to temper every statement with
soft words directed at their avid
rank and file. The nation is—
or should be —struggling hard
to regain its position in the
world. The seller’s market has
gone and British goods are dear.
We are living on borrowed
money and cannot always expect
to do so. Hard, patient and in-
telligent work is the key, not
to our prosperity, but to the
road to prosperity. And every
good Briton knows it. So must
the Government know it. But
doctrinaire considerations, with
a general election looming, can-
not be ignored. The bulk of the
Labor diehards believe in
Socialism implicitly and abso-
lutely. They are blind to any
other consequences. , With the
Government’s expressed inten-
tions to proceed willy-nilly with
Socialist measures against the
considered opinion of the in-
formed and the expert, Labor’s
status has weakened. It must
therefore seek closer affinity
with their habitual supporters.
A good deal more face-saving
seems probable; and party
loyalty—which means giving
way to the hard-and-fast doc-
trinaires—is likely to be a re-
straining influence on action.
A Peep at Industry
The present state of some of
the nation’s key industries hardly
confirms the reference of
another Cabinet Minister, Mr.
Aneurin Bevan, to “the period
of industrial harmony” which
“some evilly-disposed persons
are trying to bring to an end,”
Mr, Gaitskell, Minister of
Fuel, has also had his say. He
told the annual conference of
the National Union of Miners
at Porthcawl that “technically,
things are not going badly, but
the weak spot was plain to see
—attendance,” In all they did
the touchstone must be not
“How much do I get out of it?”
but “This helps the country and
the Government.” The Ministry
of Fuel’s figures tell another
story. Coal output for the first
half of this year is not suffici-
ently large as to warrant any
degree of optimism. It is im-
probable that even the lowest
target for 1949 will be reached.
Stocks and manpower are
down and absenteeism at the
face has risen to 15 p.c. The
miners, who are now highly
paid, have not assumed responsi-
bilities commensurate with their
wages and amenities. They do,
in fact, get quite a lot “out of
it,” so that they take a day off
as and when they choose. That
is not what is expected of key
men.
The iron-and-steel industry is
handicapped by the uncertainty
of its future, under threat of
nationalisation. There have
been railway strikes, with the
probable consequence of higher
wages—and dearer fares. And
the dockers once again have
flaunted their discontent by
breaking into anarchy and plung-
ing the nation into a state of
emergency. '
Summer Shows
Two names are being much
discussed in entertainment
circles. Eric Linfclater has one
play and two films currently
running in the West End. Asso-
ciated with him in the play and
in one of the films is 28-year-
old Peter Ustinov, author, actor
and director-producer of films
and plays, who has been called
the English Orson Welles.
The general opinion seems to
be that he is trying to do too
much and that he would be wise
to concentrate his undoubted
talent upon one feature a.t a
time.
“Love in Albania” (St. James’s
Theatre) confirms this view.
Written by a novelist, it is yet
not a novelist’s play; but it is
very much Mr. Ustinov’s own
toy, both in his production and
in his acting of the principal
part —an American military
policeman, shining white, with
a mind of lead, a heart of putty
and a figure of bulky grossness.
The play is very, very funny,
and, if it can stay the hard sum-
mer course, should keep West
End audiences amused for
several months. Mr. Linklater
has defied a good many
dramatic conventions without
apparent loss. The plot is ab-
surd, incoherent, improbable.
Albania has no more to do with
the verbal slapdash than has
Arcady or Arabia ; and there is
no love —at least not in Albania.
Peter Ustinov, who made his
mark in revue soon after leaving
Westminster School, relies on
the broad technique of revue for
his effects. He is so demon-
strably absurd that, lacking
only a spotlight, he throws the
comedy out of perspective to the
detriment of an excellent sup-
porting cast. He it is who most
needs the producer’s restraining
touch.
NEW BROKEN HILL
CONSOLIDATED
A SUBSTANTIAL MEASURE
OF PROGRESS
MR. J. R. COVETT'S STATEMENT
The Thirteenth Annual General Meeting of New Broken
Hill Consolidated Limited was held on July 28 at 37
Dover Street, London, W.
The following are extracts from
the statement of the Chairman, Mr.
John R. Govett, which has been
circulated with the Report and Ac-
counts for the year ended December
31, 1948:
The year 1948 has seen a substan-
tial measure of progress in the de-
velopment and equipment of your
property. Although in some respects
the work is behind our original
schedule, this has been due to causes
which have been very generally ex-
perienced, and were beyond the con-
trol of the management, who again
deserve congratulation on the results
that have been achieved.
Throughout the year the.prices of
lead and zinc remained at high
levels. This, as members have al-
ready been informed, has added to
our costs of development and con-
struction, but on the other hand, it
has resulted, at the present stage of
development, in a higher level of
operating profit than we had reason
to expect when our programme was
originally planned. In these cir-
cumstances your Directors feel they
will have your full support in the
substantial allocation of £200,000 that
has been made to General Reserve
from the year’s taxed profits.
Operating Results
Operations: The production of ore
during the year from the company’s
leases totalled 103,578 tons, com-
pared with 62,367 tons in the 12
months to December 31, 1947. The
output from development and slop-
ing from the lead and zinc lodes
respectively was as follows:
Pb Ag Zn
yens % oz. %
Lead Lode —
Development . 16,118 12.5 2.9 7.7
Sloping . . . 13,499 16.5 3.5 7.6
Zinc Lode —
Development . 24,487 5.9 1.3 14.0
Sloping . . . 49,474 7.3 1.5 14.9
103,578 9.0 1.9 12.6
The average grade of all ore mined
approximates closely to the average
for the previous year, due to the
fact that such a large proportion of
production is still necessarily being
drawn from the more readily acces-
sible zinc lode ore-bodies at and
above the No. 16 level.
The lead lode ore-bodies enter our
leases below the No. 16 level, and it
is to the opening up of the lower
levels to which our main develop-
ment work is of course being
directed.
The development and sloping
operations, underground diamond
drilling, and geological studies dur-
ing 1948 have increased considerably
our knowledge of the ore-bodies in
the first I,oooft. of the company's
leases.
In addition, an increase in the
cross-sectional area of the zinc lode
ore zones between Nos. 12 and 16
levels going south is of considerable
interest. Pending further diamond
drilling and development, however,
it would be unwise to attempt to
estimate the possible economic value
of the large tonnage of ore which
is indicated.
In the meantime, we are not allow-
ing the desire for further explora-
tion of these areas to deflect us from
the major objective of the develop-
ment of the main—and considerably
higher grade—lead lode ore-bodies
at the lower levels.
Employees andylndustrial
Relations
In 1948 we recruited 102 employees,
bringing the total, exclusive of staff,
to 511 at the end of December, 1948.
The special training of underground
employees has necessarily been con-
tinued, and 14 of our employees are
engaged as instructors. It has been
increasingly difficult to engage the
full number of recruits to meet our
production programme, and since
this matter causes us some anxiety
I feel obliged to repeat the warning
I gave in my statement last year,
that shortage of manpower may
retard the progress of our work
during the current year. The rela-
tionship between management and
employees has continued on a most
satisfactory and happy basis. Only
one day’s stoppage occurred in 1948,
as a result of some differences affect-
ing the w r ages of instructors
throughout the field, and Mr. Pitman
Hooper reports that all ranks of em-
ployees have given unstinted and
loyal service throughout the year
under review.
Conditions of Employment
The three-year term of the present
industrial agreement covering the
conditions of employment of all
mine and surface workers at Broken
Hill expires in July of this year,
and negotiations for a now agree-
ment have commenced. I am con-
fident that an agreement satisfac-
tory to both sides will be completed
for the usual term of three years.
As members will appreciate, the
expansion programme involves much
additional burden in the work of
many of our departments. In this
connection I would like to refer to
the excellent work which is being
carried out for us by the outside
contractors, who, in spite of tem-
porary shortages of one kind or
another of materials, have main-
tained, with very little falling be-
hind, the scheduled programme for
the construction of the surface build-
ings and equipment and ancillary
work in connection with the shaft-
sinking programme. The shortage
of reinforcing steel is proving one
of the most difficult bottlenecks,
and we have been forced to resort
to importation to augment domestic
1 resources.
Power Requirements
Until recently the requirements of
electric power and compressed air
for all the mines at Broken Hill
have been drawn from the central
power station of the Western New
South Wales Electric Power Pty.
Ltd. Notwithstanding increased
capacity now being installed in the
central power station, the growing
requirements to meet the combined
expansion programme of your com-
pany and the Zinc Corporation de-
mand further supplies of both
power and compressed air. Accord-
ingly, a new power station is now
being erected adjacent to the com-
pany’s leases, by Enterprise Power
Company Pty, Limited. The new
power station will, in the first in-
stance, have an installed capacity of
12,000-h.p., and will be linked with
the central power station. Work is
proceeding on the preparation of
the site, and orders have been placed
for the generating sets and air com-
pressors.
Transport of Concentrates
In common with the other mining
companies at Broken Hill, we have
been experiencing some difficulty in
securing adequate supplies of trans-
port away from Broken Hill for
lead and zinc concentrates. Output
for the Broken Hill field will, on
present plans, be increasing steadily
by substantial amounts each year
over the next, few years, and we
cannot regard with complacency the
fact that in 1948 rail transport to
seaboard proved inadequate, and a
substantial tonnage of concentrates
had to be stacked at Broken Hill.
Furthermore, the lack of adequate
rail transport over the last few
years has forced consuming plants
at Pirle and elsewhere in Australia
to make serious inroads on their
own stocks of raw materials, and
many of these plants are now
struggling on a hand-to-mouth
basis. Likewise, the margin ot
stocks at the consuming plants in
the United Kingdom—which depend
on Broken Hill for the bulk of their
supplies—has for many months now
been held only with difficulty at
what can best be described as a
dangerously low level. Smelting
operations in this country have al-
ready had to be curtailed through
lack of supplies, and this curtail-
ment remains in force today.
It is appreciated that the State
railways in Australia have very
real problems of their own arising
out of lack of replacement and
maintenance of rolling stock during
the war years and general shortage
of coal and labour. We realise that
these are contributing factors to
the difficulties which the railways
have in meeting even our present
requirements, and we are endea-
vouring to do everything we can to
assist in . overcoming these difficul-
ties.
We have had many conferences
with the Railways Commissioners of
South Australia and New South
Wales; we are assured of their sym-
pathetic attention to this problem
and we appreciate the response they
have already made to our ap-
proaches. Considerable improvement
has been shown in recent months,
as a result of which we anticipate
that in 1949 it will be possible to
transport all current production
and lift some of the stacked material
as well. It is our earnest hop£ also
that we may soon be able to see
that adequate provision can be made
for the increased tonnages of the
future.
In view of the substantial fall that
has taken place in metal prices since
March of this year| members will
no doubt be looking for some re-
marks from me on this subject.
Conclusion
In my statement at the end of
May last year to members of The
Zinc Corporation Limited—a copy
of which was sent to members of
this company—l stated that it would
be foolish to overlook that a reac-
tion in the prices then ruling was
bound to occur sooner or later. Fol-
lowing the date of that statement
prices rose still further, with lead
and zinc in the United States—which
since the end of 1945 has been
governing world metal prices—
reaching peaks of 21$ cents and 17$
cents, equivalent to £ll9/10/1 and
£97/5/5 sterling respectively.
The reaction from these phenome-
nally high prices has been very
rapid, but with so many factors
interfering with the normal flow of
trade between nations, the relation-
ship between the worlds leading
currencies, and in particular the
necessary measures in force to pro-
tect sterling, no one can say more
than that the level of prices for
lead and zinc has reached a point at
which the pressure of supplies on
the market must begin to be relaxed.
In relation to our own undertaking,
I would repeat that our programme
was not Initiated in anticipation of
the course that prices have followed
over the last three years, and that
we remain confident of a world level
of prices which will return a rea-
sonable reward to all concerned.
The developments in the mine have
at least fulfilled our expectations,
and while the almost complete ces-
sation of development work fofced
on us during the war period is now
more than ever to be regretted, there
is no reason to doubt that the leases
of New Broken Hill Consolidated .
enclose a mine that will be a worthy
successor to the great past and pre-
sent producers in a field which has
now for so long been a vital factor
in meeting the world’s needs of
non-ferrous metals.


• "A
*• » m
In
tins of 20
3/-
BY APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS TO
HIS MAJESTY THE KINO
SUPER VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
BY
Bensonm,d Hedges
LTD
OLD BOND STREET , LONDON
W.Q,$
There are times which call for
I something better than the merely
very good, and demand
the unquestionable best. Where
\cigarettes are concerned the man
* of taste is guided by the
words 66 Benson & Hedges,
- Old Bond Street, London From
I this famous address comes fine
tobacco perfection to satisfy all those
occasions when only the best will do.
uexwM f
s
K 4
/:
V />>
£7
ft
m
<S
!£i
/ —-
ry- gs
ftM*s
?s
vS^
V,
s>
e
ru
<2
/\
V*
m
t.
?/
i?
•Cw ©
U
H
m
<&
J^FLQ^K
TOOTH'S K.B. LAGER—Brewed and bottled by
Tooth & Co. Limited, Makers of good beer since 1835.
insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY. LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager. m
UncaBLED
ADDITIONS
“NEW SOVIET POLICY.”
A writer in N. Y. “Herald
Tribune” recently put for-
ward the suggestion that there
was “considerable reason” for
believing that between the for-
mation of the Cominform in
1947 and the death in August
of last year of Zhdanov, its
leading figure, Stalin was in
eclipse as the supreme ruler, but
that he has recovered his power
as the failure and the danger
of the Cominform policy have
become more and more evi-
dent. “For the Cominform not
only failed to capture Wfstern
Europe by internal aggression,
or to subvert the Marshall Plan,
or to frustrate the Atlantic pact.
It provoked a reaction so strong
and violent that for a time there
was the danger of war.”
the “U.N. World” (an un-
official but obviously specially-
informed U.N.O. support) now
states that the Foreign Minis-
ters’ Paris conference was made
possible largely because Gro-
myko, Soviet Deputy Foreign
Minister and chief U.N.O.
representative, told Stalin “the
naked truth about the West.”
Hence the change in Soviet
policy implicit in the moves to
have that conference held and
apparent in the Sqviet delegate’s
somewhat more conciliatory
stand thereat.
Stating that its information
had been derived from “sources
which it would be neither pru-
dent nor proper to disclose,” the
“U.N. World” declared it had
“obtained access to some of the
major directives dispatched
from the Moscow chancellery to
its dependencies in Eastern
Europe,” and that “for the first
time in the 32-year history of
the U.S.S.R. the hitherto top-
secret deliberations of the Polit-
buro are known to a select few
far beyond the tall walls of the
Kremlin.”
Based on that information,
the mam points of Gromkyo’s
report to Stalin were:
Russo-American rapproche-
ment is feasible.
The U.N, is the proper agency
for composing U.S.-U.S.S.R.
differences.
The American people do not
wapt war.
Mr. Truman is genuinely de-
termined to preserve peace.
The small group of American
“jingoists” is losing ground.
U.S. economic aid to Russia
and Eastern Europe would be
available once the political
atmosphere cleared.
U.S. would never allow the
rebuilding of a Nazi Germany.
U.S. distrusts Russian
motives, and only a genuine
demonstration of goodwill can
convince Americans that Russia
sincerely wants peace.
“What Gromyko told Stalin,”
the “U.N. World” account
adds, “was based on a series of
confidential talks he had had,
during May and June of 1948,
with some 25 U.S. industrialists
and financiers.” These leaders
of American business were
urged by Gromyko to sug-
gest methods of establish-
ing amicable relations between
the U.S. and U.S.S.R. From
them Gromyko requested writ-
ten memoranda outlining their
views, explaining that he would
use these to support his cam-
paign in Moscow to speed moves
toward “normalcy” in Russo-
American relations.
Gromyko conveyed to Stalin
both the matter and mood of
these conversations and sub-
stantiated his oral report with
the written data.
Gromyko was next invited to
address the Politburo on this
subject. A three-months debate
ensued, during the course of
which relations between the
U.S. and U.S.S.R. deteriorated
dangerously. The debate over
what became known as the
“Gromyko Plan” ended with its
endorsement by majority vote.
To implement the plan
Vyshinsky and Gromyko were
promoted to the top posts in
the Foreign Office and given un-
precedented power and latitude
for direct negotiations with
Western representatives. These
negotiations resulted in agree-
ment to lift the Berlin blockade.
“Gromyko’s behavior at the
recent General Assembly in
every respect confirmed the new
Soviet foreign-policy line. Al-
though deliberations of the
U.N. had major claim on his
time, he worked virtually day
and night to fit into his schedule
long conferences with some of
those same Americans whose
thinking had helped him per-
suade Stalin to favor his plan.
With this group he reviewed
almost every one of the out-
standing issues of Russo-
American relations in a forceful
and forthright manner and dis-
cussed their solution on a quid
pro quo basis.”
Subjects discussed included
the Greek situation, the Soviet
bloc’s potential participation in
the Marshall Plan, U.S. recog-
nition of the Chinese Com-
munists, international control of
atomic energy and the possible
withdrawal of occupation troops
from Germany.
“During these sessions,”
states “U.N. World,” “Ameri-
can conferees gained the im-
pression that the Soviet Union
was ready to make major con-
cessions if the West proved
willing to come halfway.” It
added: —
“The Politburo decision to
ratify the Gromyko Plan to
work with the West represents a
complete reversal of the 1947
Zhdanov Plan, which was de-
signed to work against the West,
primarily through the rebaptised
Comintern —the Cominform.”
With more caution, it states
that “Some Western diplomats
view the new Soviet moves with
notable reserve, even though they
admit that, once the U.S.S.R.
accepts a cold peace with the
West as the basic tenet of its
foreign policy, it will go to amaz-
ing lengths to accommodate
Washington, London and Paris.”
Finally, however, it proclaims
“monumental changes pending
in Soviet foreign policy,” though
with the West determined to
“insist on some hard guarantees


AND SUDDEN DEATH
Will you be alive this time next week? Deaths on our roads
average almost four a day—and injuries three an hour. If this
shocking toll continues, thousands now reading this will be
killed or injured this year. If every motorist could realise
that every time he steps on the accelerator death rides with
him if he could see a picture just once of the insane,
crumpled effect of a body after its bones are crushed inward
he would never again face the awful consequences of reck-
less driving. “ — And Sudden Death” shocked the U.S.A. into a
full realisation of its traffic accident problem. Now this grip-
ping article appears in the August Reader’s Digest as a con-
tribution to the outstanding campaign now being conducted
by the Australian Road Safety Council.
Also in August Reader’s Digest
New facts about the Atom
Bomb. How big Is It? How
many are be?ng made?* Are
harbour explosions or sabo-
teurs’ suitcases to be feared?
What could one do to a big
city? Have the Russians the «
know-how? Have the demo-
cracies a defence? After 4
years of secrecy, here is de-
tailed information at last.
God's gift to doctors. News
of the most versatile remedy
yet a drug safer, simpler
(take It by mouth), more
wide-ranging than penicillin
or streptomycin. Paul de Kruif
reports on aureomycin, bless-
ing to family doctors ... and
its success against ills from
pneumonia to venereal
disease.
The Ago, the Aly and the
Rita. IS the Aga Khan’s bath
water bottled and sold to
followers? What DOES he do
with the money he gets from
being weighed in diamonds?
How did he feel (as spiritual
leader of. 5 million) about his
son’s antics with Rita Hay-
worth? Pacts and myths
about a fabulous trio.
Me and television. Think
ordering; one is all there is to
getting a television set? Oh,
boy! Eric Hatch's hilarious
story of what he went
through to have a set in-
stalled . . . the new Insight
it’s given him Into women’s
strange likes . . . and fun he
gets out of it that the tele-
vision people never intended.
Third baby’s the easiest. Oh,
there’d be nothing to it.
When the pains came, she’d
hop a taxi to the hospital
(no need for her husband
to worry). But he did worry
. . . and so did the cabbie . . .
and, by golly, so did she.
Shirley Jackson’s pertinent,
and impertinent, remarks
about the big day.
How’s business in Russia?
Prices are ' set so that a
worker must “kill himself”
to keep alive. Absenteeism
can mean 6 months in a “re-
form” labor camp; shoddy
output spells jail—yet stores
are filled with unsaleable
goods. An authority tells
why Russia’s economy may
be weaker than we know.
In this issue—more than 30
articles of lasting interest,
selected from leading maga-
zines and current books, and
condensed to save your time.
Read and Bnjoy August
Reader Digest
ONE SHILLING All Newsagents and Bookstalls
and sweeping concessions to
avoid any repetition of the
Yalta and Potsdam pitfalls.”
Jap Reparations.
Instead of being condemned
for arbitrary conduct in halting
Jap reparations. Uncle Sam, in
the view of Washington “Post,”
should be extolled for his
patience in bearing an excessive
burden for so long:
“The writing-off of the whole
reparations business had be-
come irresistible. The United
States has underwritten tfie
Japanese economy by 300 to
400 million dollars a year above
occupation costs just for living
essentials for the Japanese
people. Total amount is over
$1,000,000,000.
“This was a totally unwar-
ranted drain on the hard-pressed
American taxpayer, especially as
it amounted to a subsidy of
inter-Allied procrastination. And
the subsidy has been developing
in Japan a mendicant attitude
difficult to dislodge, instead of
encouraging Japan to stand on
its own economic feet....
“The restoration of Japan’s
economic life as a trading nation
will benefit not only Japan and
the American taxpayer, but the
entire Far East, the trade revival
of which would be an offset to
the prevailing chaos and an anti-
dote to Communist propaganda.”
Dollar Dilemma.
A British Commonwealth
aspect viewed editorially by
London “Times”;
‘The Commonwealth
dilemma, when faced with a
choice between trading ag a
block, in search of greater
freedom and security in its com-
mercial dealings, and a broader
multilateralism is epitomised by
the case of Canada.
“No nation in the Common-
wealth is more anxious than
Canada to see the most made
of Commonwealth trade ; but no
nation in the world sees its live-
lihood more dependent upon the
ability to change sterling freely
into dollars.
“How can the trading coun-
tries of the rest of the world,
with their comparatively high
costs, be enabled to do business
freely and regularly with con-
tinental America, with its special
care for its own producers and
exporters?
“Clearly, whatever the answer,
the high-cost countries have first
to bring their costs down and
they must make no mutual trade
arrangements which keep their
costs and prices up. These are
duties, whatever happens.”
A Better Germany.
However it may work out in
the long run (having a thought
for the proverb about a leopard),
the Western German Constitu-
tion drawn up at Bonn has the
makings of a better Germany
in it.
The framers themselves (as
reported by a correspondent of
N. Y. “Herald Tribune”)
describe their Constitution as
“the most progressive in the
world,” It squarely commits
Germany to respect interna-
tional law; gives Germans
greater freedoms than they have
enjoyed since before Hitler;
and, remembering Adolf, it
specifies penalties up to life im-
prisonment for any would-be
dictators who “by force or
threat of force” aim to change
the Constitution or deprive the
head of the State of his powers.
It contains, however, plenty of
warning as well for the en-
croachers on to Eastern Ger-
many. At all events such warn-
ings seem implicit in the re-
peated emphasis on a future
“unity of ail Germany” and on
the “provisional character of
the West German State.” The
clause dealing with the geo-
graphical limits of that State (a
Republic) uses the words “for
the time being.”
That, for all the apparent
good intentions, the future
might hold something entirely
different from what the framers
yisualise is indicated by the
Constitution itself being regarded
as temporaiy. The final article
states: “This basic law loses its
validity on the day when a Con-
stitution is put into effect which
is decided on by the German
people in a free decision.”
Meanwhile there is, naturally,
at least no provision for rais-
ing an army or declaring war,
and there is the specific provi-
sion that no German can be
conscripted against his con-
science to perform war service,
and aggressive war or prepara-
tions for aggressive war are as
specifically banned.
The Constitution creates a
central Federal authority, but
the States retain many powers
of their own. The Federal
President is little more than a
figurehead, limitation of his
powers being stressed to avoid
any repetition of 1933. The
real executive power will be
wielded by a Federal Chancellor
or Premier.
The Lower House of the
Parliament (Bund) will be called
—Chicago "Sun-Times.’’
“GIDDAP!"
the Bundestag; its members to
be elected by the people every
four years. The State Legisla-
tures will name the members of
the Upper House (Bundestrat).
Both Houses must agree on
legislation on criminal law, re-
fugees, war damages, labor and
taxes that would provide revenue
for the States. On other legisla-
tion the Lower House can over-
ride the Upper House.
The Federal Government has
exclusive legislative powers in
such fields as foreign affairs,
currency, customs and com-
munications. In other fields,
such as civil and criminal law,
constitution of courts, public
welfare, anti-trust and shipping
the Federal and State Govern-
ments have concurrent powers.
The Federal Chancellor will
be elected by the Bundestag, or
Lower House. /He will deter-
mine and assumes responsibility
for general policy and name the
Federal Ministers. By a vote
of no-confidence the Bundestag
can force his resignation. If the
Bundestag is unable to agree on
his successor new elections are
called.
The Federal President is
elected for five years by a
Federal Convention consisting of
the Bundestag and an equal
number of members elected by
State Legislatures. He can be
only once re-elected.
Heading the independent judi-
cial system is a Federal Consti-
tutional Court which will inter-
pret the Constitution and settle
disputes between the Federal
Government and the States. Each
House of Parliament will name
an equal number of Judges.
Marshall-Plan Faking.
How the Marshall Plan was
“sold” to doubters (particularly
U.S. doubters), according to a
writer in N, Y. “Herald Tri-
bune” ;
“It hag been evident from
the beginning to those who knew
the facts that the figures were
doctored for reasons of political
expediency. They underesti-
mated the European dollar de-
ficit. They exaggerated, with the
most wishful kind of thinking,
the prospects of the European
export industries and of the
markets where exports could be
sold,” v; ‘
The writer added 4 that it was
a mathematical certainty, even
before the Marshall Plan was
submitted to Congress, that the
crisis which was now here would
come at the very latest when
Marshall aid stopped in J 952.
The crisis would come when
the American inflationary boom
halted and deflation set in ; or
it would come when the revival
of production made Britain, Bel-
gium, France and Western Ger-
many competitors in- the buyers’
market. By April both these
conditions had developed.
Exploration Unlimited.
High up in the north, says a
Norse proverb, there stands a
rock. It is 100 miles high and
100 miles wide. Once every
thousand years a little bird
comes to this rock to sharpen its
beak. When the rock has thus
been worn away, then a single
day of eternity will have gone
by.
For time read distance, and
that fable appreciates pretty
well for the puny human mind
the ineffable distances waiting to
be explored, the billions of now
invisible stars waiting to be
dragged out of obscurity, by
astronomy’s mightiest weapon,
the giant glass-eye of Palomar,
which has already taken a pre-
liminary peep some few millions
of light-years into infinity. The
light for the first picture it took
started earthward from a gas
cloud about 1500 b.c. And light
travels at about 186,000 miles
per second.
In London “Times,” Sir
Harold Spencer Jones, F.R.S.,
the Astronomer Royal, has
served up for layman-consump-
tion something of the amazing
power and complexity of the in-
strument which, begun as one
man’s dream 20 years ago on
Mount Palomar, near San
Diego (Cal.), is almost ready to
attack the tremendous problems
,pf the universe.
A telescope, simply, is a light-
gathering tube ; into the tube in
Mount Palomar Observatory,
which with its moving parts
weighs 350 tons, light pours on
to a 200 in. reflector, cast and
ground with such minute
accuracy that it will gather light
from and photograph remote
galaxies 1000 million light-years
away.
The new telescope is impres-
sive because of its size and clean-
ness of design. The upper bear-
ing is a great horseshoe, 46ft. in
diameter, into whose throat the
telescope is depressed when
directed towards the North Pole.
In its sighting it resembles a
remote-controlled gun-turret in
a modem warship. There are no
auxiliary telescopes to train on
the star to be viewed. Its astro-
nomical position is set on a series
of dials at the control console.
A button is pressed. The giant
instrument at once trains
smoothly round, elevates, and
when it stops is pointing in
exactly the right direction.
At the same time the great
dome, nearly as big as the dome
of the Pantheon, swings outside
jt until the shutter opening is in
front of the telescope’s muzzle.
Instead of ball- or roller-bear-
ings, the telescope revolves on
oil-pad bearings, through which
oil is forced at high pressure, so
that the instrument really floats
on a thin oil-film. So small is
the resultant friction that the 350
tons of moving parts are driven
by a motor of only l-12th horse-
power, at the correct diurnal
speed with the precision of a
high-grade clock.
The electrical circuits and
controls are of extreme com-
plexity, so that if the machinery
is incorrectly handled, when
damage could result, all controls
are immediately and auto-
matically locked.
The mirror, of course, is the
piece de resistance. Conceived
by Dr. George Hale, founder of
the Mount Wilson Observatory,
its 17ft diameter is six or seven
hundred thousand times as keen
as the human eye; it will reach
three times as far into space as
the world’s largest present tele-
scope. Made of Pyrex, it took
years of infinite labor to cast,
and, after placing in the
annealer, 10 months to gradually
cool. After cooling came an
even more exacting job, the
polishing—a story in itself.
When it left the optical work-
shop in Pasadena it was known
that its outer zone was slightly
higher than the correct
theoretical figure. It will be
polished down to the correct
proportions, in its mounting, by
an optician from Pasadena.
This should be completed in
a few months, when the giant
telescope will be as perfect as
human ingenuity can make it,
and ready, with its 200 in. eye, to
open hitherto closed areas of the
universe to probing scientists;
and to disclose, from the in-
credibly weak signals of light
from stars somewhere towards
the end of space, perhaps some-
thing of the shape and size and
origin of the universe itself.
Dragnet Digest.
The New Alchemists. —Sir John
Cockcroft, director of Britain’s big
atomic outfit at Harwell: “We are
often asked whether we can produce
gold artificially [per nuclear reactor].
We can in fact do this, but since we
have to start from platinum, and the
process is rather expensive, we are
not likely to put the goldmines out
of operation in the foreseeable
future.”
* * * ♦
Hirohito and the Bomb. —That the
Jap Emperor mightn’t have heard a
word about the atom-bomb until
after the surrender has been suggested
by A. Comyns Carr, K.C., address-
ing a London audience. Hirohito’s
personal political adviser, Marquess
Kido, had kept a long and accurate
diary record, leading up to the sur-
render: “In that surrender story,
from beginning to end,” Mr. Can-
stated, “there is no reference of any
sort to the atom-bomb. I strongly
suspect that they did not know any-
thing about it. The censorship by
the Japanese Army was so strict that
unless the Army decided to report it
the Cabinet would never hear of it.
As the Army did not wish to sur-
render, the probability is that they
never told the Cabinet anything about
it.”
Women Migrants. —The report of
the British Royal Commission on
population shows that, while in 1931
the proportion of females to males in
the age group 15-49 in Great Britain
was 110 per cent., in 1947 it was
only 102 per cent. The report com-
ments: “Since 1931 the excess of
women has been greatly reduced, and
is now relatively small,” and “since
the end of the war the number of
women emigrating has consistently
exceeded the number of men.”
v * * *
Air-lift Goes On. —How little was
achieved at the last Foreign Ministers’
conference is sufficiently indicated by
the one fact that it didn’t even end
the Berlin air-lift. And U.S. High
Commissioner John J. McCloy has
stated that the lift will continue “so
long as it is necessary to cover our
commitments in Berlin. Whether and
when it should be taken off or
diminished,” he added, “is a logistic
as well as a military question.”
* * * *
Corns’ Strike Aims. —British Attor-
ney-General Sir Hartley Shawcross, on
what the Corns are seeking to do in
fomenting the current outbreaks of
strikes; “These are their orders from
abroad. Social democracy, our way
of life, is to be destroyed. The
British Commonwealth is recognised
as the main bastion against Com-
munism, and so, all over the Com-
monwealth, in Australia, in Canada,
in the colonies, in this country, we
are under attack. The Communists
are carrying out a carefully co-
ordinated plan intended to disrupt
the economic and political life of our
country, and so give rise to condi-
tions in which Communist dictator-
ship, controlled from Moscow, could
take control.”
• • ♦ ♦
Wot, No Primroses? —Touching
comment from the Conservative side
(Mr. Birch) on Sir Stafford Cripps’s
unpalatable Finance Bill: “Sir Staf-
ford Cripps has been favorably com-
pared with his predecessor. I rather
doubt that comparison. Mr. Dalton
had been leading us to perdition by
a primrose path. The policy in the
present bill means only that we are
going to perdition by a slightly longer
road, and where are the primroses?”
♦ ♦ * *
Another F.D.R. —Since May the
U.S. Congress has had another
Franklin D. Roosevelt; third of the
late President’s four sons, and the
only one to run for elective office
so far. Standing as a Democrat after
the selecting committee (Tammany
Hall) had turned him down, the new
F.D.R. defeated not only its chosen
Democratic candidate (Judge Benjamin
Shalleck) but a Republican candidate
and an American Labor candidate as
well. Described by N. Y. “Times”
as “tall, friendly, with a smile like
his father’s,” the younger F.D.R. has
since election been the subject of
argument as to whether he is eligible
ever to stand for President, a strict
qualification being American birth,
and he having been born at Campo-
bello Island, New Brunswick, Canada,
where the Roosevelts had a summer
estate. The conclusion seems to be
that he could make out a passable
brief for qualifying under the con-
stitutional provision.


SINCE 1847
gil Q**jg
MAKERS
OF GOOD WINE
FOR MORE THAN
A CENTURY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Professor H. S. W. Massey. Mel-
bourne-born atomic scientist and holder
of the chair of mathematics at London
University, is back on a three-months
lecture tour of Australian universities,
predicting that in 15 to 20 years the
mighty atom will have displaced the
mighty miner in industry. Not much
uranium is needed for atomic energy,
and he believes the little Australia holds
will suffice. As chief scientist of the
Admiralty mine-designing department.
Prof. Massey nurtured the deadly amatol
bulbs of those vast undersea gardens
that put a Sargasso Sea stranglehold on
Germany’s sea-trade. In 1933 he wrote
a book on the theory of atomic
collision; from 1943, in America, he
worked on the project that put theory
into violent practice over Hiroshima.
Dr. John Cumpston goes to Ceylon
next month to advise the island on health
and medical services, A Press report
that he “is well qualified to advise” is a
masterly understatement —the doctor has
kept Australia in the forefront of world
public health for more than 35 years.
Melbourne-born in 1880, he worked
through State school and Wesley, taking
scholarships in his stride, finally picking
up his M.B. at Melbourne University with
a final honors exhibition in 1902. After
tours abroad to study tropical medicine
and public health (a London diploma in
the latter), he came home in 1906 to
Westralia’s Health Department. Shifting
ground to the newly-formed Quarantine
Service, he became its Director in 1913
and soon proved his administrative
ability by his handling of the smallpox
outbreak of that year, clinching his repu-
tation by his efforts in the t ’flu epidemic
of 1918-19. The following year found
him organising the Commonwealth Serum
Laboratories in Melbourne; the next,
Director-General of Health. In 1944 he
went to India to advise the Government
on health problems, a trip involving
strenuous travel. He retired from the
Director-Generalship in 1945 ; the prob-
lems of his old stamping-ground have
returned him to harness.
Bench and Bar will welcome N. S.
Wales Cabinet’s reappointment of Acting-
Justice S. V. Toose for another six months
in the congested divorce jurisdiction.
Toose has had a very long association
with divorce law in N. S. Wales.
American interest in Australia has
never been higher ; its latest manifesta-
tion, the establishment of an all-Australian
natural history hall at the Colorado
Museum, Denver, the first of its kind
built outside this country. An expedition
which will cover south-eastern Australia
and the Centre will arrive in September
to collect specimens of plant, animal and
bird life. Under the direction of Dr.
Alfred Bailey, ‘one of America’s most
eminent naturalists, it will co-operate
with R. T, M. Pescott, director of Mel-
bourne Museum, which will be expedi-
tion-headquarters. In the late war Pescott
commanded the Fifth Australian Mobile
Entomological Section, which did a vast
amount of research of not only military
value.
“F.C.’s” summing-up:
The Bank Grab case has confirmed the high
qualities of two Sydney K.Cs. —G. E. Barwick
and Frank Walters Kittb. Barwick’s forte is
his quickness and ability as an advocate, while
legal brethren esteem Kitto for his ripened
knowledge of law, his acuteness of perception
and a persistence in pursuit of the main point,
once scented, of which his Phoenician-Cormsh
cast of countenance gives good warning to all
adversaries. Barwick, who led the panel for
the banks,, won high praise, both here and in
England fbr his conduct of the case. All
concerned agree that but for Kitto’s brilliant
initiative that case might have been prejudiced
from the start. The Government was expected
to move fast as soon as the bill could receive
assent, and it was Kitto who suggested, and
fought till he got his colleagues to .accept,
applying to the High Court in the first instance
for an injunction restraining the Government
from any action under provisions of a proposed
Act of Parliament while it was still in the form
of a bill at the time of an application. Kitto s
scheme, being adopted, made history, and he
has thoroughly deserved the congratulations
showered on him since his return from the
Privy Council hearing. The announcement of
the decision last year by the High Court, and
this year on the London appeal, just failed,
each of them, to coincide with his birthday.
He is 46, and is reckoned to be likely
timber for the High Court Bench.
Not yet 30, Bruce Graham, the
Liberals’ man for St. George (N.S.W.),
is a Sydney Grammar product who was
an A.B.C. announcer before, the year
World War II broke, he joined the
R. Posted as a pilot to Six Squad-
ron he was next with an ambulance
squadron whose missions took him over
most of the operational areas of the
S. Pacific, until, victim of an acci-
dent, he was laid up while doctors fought
to save his leg. During this time he
qualified in aerodrome control. He lost
his leg, but the mechanical substitute
serves him almost as well. He left the
R.A.A.F. a very young squadron-leader.
A battle-wise officer gets command of
the R.A.N.’s first Battle-class destroyer,
Tobruk. Son of Professor Morrison, one-
time instructor af both naval and mili-
tary colleges. Commander Tom Morrison
is a torpedo specialist who heard his first
angry shot in cruiser Hobart, and was
in her at the evacuation of Berbera in
1941. For this, 0.8. E. He left her for
cruiser Australia, wherein, as Squadron
Torpedo Officer, his experience included
the mauling Kamikazes gave the ship off
Leyte. A “mention” for that action, and
D.S.C. for the next, when in Lingayen
Gulf Australia suffered 84 casualties, had
the top of her foremost funnel knocked
off, her centre funnel ripped open, her
crane wrecked and holes punched in
upper-deck and waterline. Morrison’s
lesser duty was firing torpedoes —his main
responsibility was to the action-efficiency
of his ship’s complex electrical circuits,
which, as Australia was still in action
when she withdrew, he evidently dis-
charged efficiently enough. In Tobruk,
with her multiple tubes, he will have
opportunity to spare during working-up
to blow out, recover and recondition his
beloved tin-fish. He was commander of
the R.A.N. College before getting his new
command.
Those who hold that the inveterate
pipe-smoker is often the philosopher (not
the political variety) could find no better
example than Bernie Ruling; and in no
big job at present is the philosophical
outlook a more handy attribute than in
his. As Comptroller of Stores in N.S.W.
Railways he directs purchase and distri-
bution each year of around £12,000,000-
worth of materials, comprising tens of
thousands of items, many in chronic short
supply. It is the sort of harassing job
that would put a highly-strung man on
his back in six months. The present
incumbent is the ideal combination of
the man who gets things done and one
who yet refuses to be panicked, and the
SUPER STOREMAN.
humorous glint which Dubois has caught
comes naturally, Coming up the hard
way, Ruling equipped himself strongly
for his post by going through, in his 35
years with the branch, almost all of the
manifold jobs in this highly-specialised
field. In his mid-fifties, he keeps his
chassis trim with tennis—he has been
president of the Fairfield and District
Association for 20 years.
A man called Ben Price:
For a dozen years before his death in Sydney
last week B. Elystan-Price, limned to the life
here by Scorfield, was a member of the advertis-
ing staff of The Bulletin. That was merely
incidental to his real roles in life —benefactor-
at-large to anyone needing help and fortunate
enough to come under his notice, and adoptive
uncle to every child he found capable of
swallowing a chocolate.
A fortnight ago a London “News-Chronicle
man called at the Bulletin office. He had
been instructed to find out all he could about
“a man called Ben Price, who seems to be
B. ELYSTAN-PRICE.
regarded throughout Wales as a kind of un-
official patron saint because of the enormous
number of food parcels he has sent there.”
No one knows just how many food parcels
Ben sent to Britain. He would read in a
Welsh paper of an old couple celebrating their
golden wedding. Down would go their names
in his notebook and off would go a parcel.
Another item might mention a parson in a tiny
Welsh village; in due course the minister would
receive a parcel from Ben. So it went on, until
people all over Wales, and in England, too,
had reason to bless the name of a man they
had never seen.
But food parcels were only one side —a recent
one —of the man’s wholehearted philanthropy.
His own tastes were simple and his generosity
was limited only by his capacity to give. In
Sydney, too, there are hundreds who bless E'en
Price; at Christmas-time his office used to look
like a branch of the parcel-post office, and it
was almost as hard to get him to accept a gift
as it was to persuade him to refrain from giving
one, for giving was his whole philosophy of
life. Many a U.K. and U.S. serviceman in
Australia during the war found Ben a warm-
hearted guide and friend. . .
As president of the Cymmrodonon Society
Ben made Sydney’s small Welsh community the
most closely-knit national group in Australia,
and every Jones, Evans, Williams or Davies
who arrived in Sydney would be dined and
entertained by the unofficial Welsh ambassador.
When they left, food parcels followed as a
matter of course.
Ben was born at Bedlinog, South Wales, 69
years ago. He was apprenticed to a merchandis-
ing firm in London, and spent several years in
Calcutta with a wholesale furnishing-house
before coming to Australia. He also lived for
a time in Patagonia. When the 1914 war came
he was one of the first to volunteer for the
Rabaul force, Never a strong man, he failed
to pass the doctor, but lined up for attestation
just the same, with a story that his papers had
blown away. It must have been a strong gale;
at any rate it was strong enough to blow him
to Rabaul, where he stayed on with the occupa-
tion force and, as a sergeant attached to the
Treasury, signed the Ben Price currency notes
which have become collectors’ items. Back
in Australia he again fell foul of the doctors,
and was forbidden further oversea service. He
then became permanent adjutant of Liverpool
camp, but in 1918 managed to talk his way on
board a troopship just before the Armistice.
From 1919 onwards Ben worked as partner
or director in various importing firma; he had
been with The Bulletin since 1937.
J. H. E. Schroder, who forsook school-
mastering at Christchurch B.H.S, (MX;)
to step the. Inky Way, became assistant-
editor of the npw-defunct Christchurch
“Sun” and held the same position on “The
Press,” goes to the assistant-directorship
of broadcasting in Maoriland. He’s a
member of the University Senate.
Faced with the alternative of keeping
his Ormond Professorship of Music or
becoming the first director of the new
Victorian State Symphony Orchestra,
Bernard Heinze chose the former. So
the A.B.C. will be in the market over-
seas for a conductor —it’s not likely to
find another Australian measuring up to
the standard of the man who did most
to build up orchestral music in
Australia. However, the Heinze baton
will be available for symphony concerts
in each State.
Centenarians are continually bobbing
up and shaking their invincible locks in
Maoriland. Tom Barrett, 109 not out,
claims to be its oldest inhabitant. Son
of a veterinary surgeon, he had his first
birthday at New Town, in Tasmania, and
celebrated his latest in Gore Hospital,
Southland, where he’s been for the past
three years. Old Tom was for 10 years
a coachdriver between Ballarat and
Bendigo ; he crossed the Tasman in 1863
and followed the same job for Cobb and
and Co. in M.L.
Less than a month after A. E. Short
assumed the mayoral chains of Adelaide
from Jack McLeay (B. 27/7/’49), the
Reaper claimed him. Just under 60,
Short >vas a front-ranker of Rotary for
years—he’d been governor of Rotary
International and twice president of the
Club in Adelaide —and was just as for-
ward in the State’s charitable organisa-
tions ; among these, board chairman of
the Somerton Crippled Children’s Home
and vice-president of the Crippled
Children’s Association. His only son
was lost flying in the Middle East.
“Cauboy”: An unusual cause is bring-
ing Joan Hammond home —repayment of
a debt of gratitude to the Australian
Ladies’ Golf Union, which, 14 years ago,
provided the necessary for the youthful
warbler to study abroad. This time she
will pay her own expenses, give a series
of concerts, and thus start a fund to
send a team of golfers to the British
open-championship in 1950. Miss Ham-
mond was a champion swimmer and
golfer before she decided to make herself
an equally distinguished singer.
A lot of publishing history went with
Alexander Asher when’ he passed on at
94 in Melbourne. He was a compositor
with Clarson and' Massina when the
manuscript was brought in of a serial to
be started in the “Australian Journal.”
It was “For the Term of His Natural
Life” by an obscure writer named Mar-
cus Clarke. Asher, who was setting type
for Melbourne “Herald” when it turned
from a morning to an evening daily,
started the Richmond “Guardian” when
the suburb was a bush township; he ran
the paper for 56 years. When Charles
Edgerton died Asher purchased “Table
Talk,” brought it out for 15 years and
then sold it to the “Herald.” He
brought literature to the backblocks by
specialising in the printing of supple-
ments for provincial papers. A founder
and president of the Australian Provin-
cial Press. Association, he was the last
surviving member of the Master Printers
Association. He was also the longest-
lived mason in Victorian history; he
used the handshake of the Duke of Rich-
mond Lodge for 70 years.
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 68, Harold Meggitt, one of the
founders of the linseed-oil business in Aus-
tralia and an early -barracker for profit-sharing;
the going was not always smooth for him, but
he« would never admit defeat.
In Melbourne, at 69, Oscar Damman, owner
of the oldest family establishment in Melbourne,
possibly in Australia—the tobacconist shop on
the Swanston-Collins-street corner, once known
as Stewart Dawson’s Corner. His father, Gustav
Damman, was a Dane who set up business in
1854; the son, St. Kilda-born, carried it on for
49 years.
At Hamilton (Vic.), at 11, Carl August
Grosser, well known in the Mallee and Wimmera
districts and at Boggabri (N.S.W.), where hed
been farmer and grazier for the past 40 years.
In Adelaide, at 53, Cecil Retallick, familiar
to Australian chemists for his work on hehalt
of their organisations and as president of both
the Pharmaceutical Guild and the S.A. Pharma-
ceutical Society. A sergeant in World War 1
and major in the next.
In Brisbane, at 47, P. K. Copley, Labor
member for Kurilpa (Q.>. Ipswich-born, he
had two shots for the Assembly, the first tor
Kurilpa in 1929, the next for Maryborough,
neither of which came off. With the 193-
swing to Labor he tried Kurilpa again, landed
it, and had held the seat since.
In Sydney, Father John Souter, since 1945
Professor of Dogmatic Theology at Mosgiel Holy
Cross College, Dunedin (M.L.). He entered
the Vincentian Order in 1922 after taking his
B.A. degree at Sydney ’Varsity; went to Dublin,
then to Rome, where he was ordained priest
in 1926.
In London, at 66, Herbert Hamley, Professor
of Education at the London Institute of Educa-
tion, and one of the leading teachers of educa-
tional psychology in the Empire. Born at
Ballarat and educated at Wesley College, Me -
bourne, he went from high preferment at Mel-
bourne University to Bombay and London, in
the recent Wat he was adviser to the Bntisn
Council in the Middle East and to the Iraki
Government.


WOMEN'S LETTERS
From Melbourne
Members of the Victoria League
thronged to the Town Hall for their
annual meeting presided over by Lady
Herring, who commended the League for
its magnificent work. In moving the
adoption of the report Rear-Admiral
J. A. Collins congratulated the Vic-
torian branch on having the largest
membership of the League in the
Empire. Some interesting facts were
revealed by the report; 700 food
parcels were sent by the Food for Britain
committee to needy people in addition to
the regular monthly parcels to V.L.
branches in Great Britain ; 23,695 books
were sent out by the bush library com-
mittee, of which 2000 had .gone to country
schools and 16,478 to country settlers.
Members expressed pleasure when Mrs.
Guy Bakeweli, senior vice-president, read
a letter from the wife of Victoria’s
Governor-Designate, Sir Dallas Brookes,
in which Lady Brookes said she was look-
ing forward to working with the League
in this State, and that her daughter Jean
would join the Young Contingent. Mrs.
Guy Bakeweli and the newly-elected
chairman of the club, Mrs. Stanley
Langdon, were official hostesses after-
wards at afternoon tea.
Baritone Todd Duncan goes on his
triumphal way at the Town Hall, and
he sings negro spirituals, modern art
songs and Brahms lieder with equal
artistry. The singer’s wife is a tasteful
dresser —at a recent concert her gown of
pale-pink French crepe featured a draped
skirt and a bodice which had gold em-
broidery and deep-blue rhinestones as
embellishments. Mrs. Frank Tait, mak-
ing her first appearance since bringing
home her third baby daughter from hos-
pital, was in a gown of white crepe ro-
maine unusually trimmed with midnight-
blue crepe on which was braid trimming
in brilliant red. Cecil Tait covered her
floral gown with a hip-length red-satin
quilted coat with a jewelled collar. Mrs.
Claude Kingston’s bottle-green taffeta
gown was worn under a coat.
Mrs. Paddy Moran wore a silver lame
blouse with her black cocktail suit; an
osprey. trimmed her black cocktail hat.
Margaret Cameron’s crepe gown was
deep burgundy. Mrs. C. V. Robertson,
who was accompanied by her daughter
Jacqueline, wore a dyed ermine coat over
a black frock. A pink ostrich-feather
hat and a black ensemble were worn by
Mrs. Olney Fendick.
Mrs. M. Kingham, in a green moire
gown and white Arctic-fur cape, was
with daughter Patricia, who added
a beige-fox cape to her ice-blue satin
gown. Mrs. John Heath pinned orchids
in the watermole coat she wore over a
black frock. Mrs.* Con Charlton wore
forest-green velvets. Mrs. Philip Dare’s
black faille cocktail frock was worn
under a dyed-ermine coat. With John
Tait were his daughters, Mesdames Tom
Mitchell and H. F. James.
Women who combined smart tailor-
ings with a keen appreciation for the
finer points of the woolly arisfos came
from the country for the sheep sales and
show. Wife of the Sheep Breeders’ As-
sociation, Mrs. S. R. Beggs, combined
soft green and brown in her tweed suit;
her green hat was finished with a tuft of
brown feathers. Mrs. Don Ward con-
trasted her grey suit with a raspberry-
red felt hat. Mrs. O. W. Edgar, of
Harrow, wore with her blue suit a mul-
berry felt hat. Mrs. Griff Weatherly’s
tweed suit was in aqua-blue tonings ; a
brown felt bowler and a primrose-yel-
low wool scarf completed a neat color
ensemble. Under a brown-checked tweed
suit Mrs. F. Thornwaite wore a crocus-
yellow blouse ; her beige hat was feather-
trimmed. Mary Moffatt’s brown caracul
coat was worn over a forest-green frock
and with a brown felt hat. Beryl Beggs
topped her grey suit with a feather-
trimmed grey hat. Mustard tweed piped
with black fashioned the coat,worn by
Mrs. Selwyn Scott over a brown tweed
suit and with a matching hat.
Most of the guests whom Mr. and
Mrs. Peter Jensen entertained at a buffet-
dinner dance at the Delphic were Western
District visitors in town for the sheep
show. The host and hostess were
formerly of Narrapumelap, Wickliffe.
Mrs. Jensen’s Christian Dior gown was
of magnolia satin and tulle. Among the
revellers were Mrs. Constance Day, the
Donald Moffatts, medico H. Maling and
his wife, the James Slatterys, the Frank
Coys, the Rod Calverts, the Bob Army-
tages, Elizabeth and Tom Laidlaw and
Sybil Officer.
Blossom, sweet-peas, lilies and daphne
formed the floral decorations in the
Toorak home of Mr. and Mrs. E. D.
Yencken when Elizabeth, daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. EL. G. Cresswell, made
her debut at a dance given by her
parents. Elizabeth’s Christian Dior gown
had an off-the-shoulder bodice of white
lace heavily encrusted with moonstones ;
the bouffant skirt was of white organdie
over taffeta. With her mother, whose
gown was of aqua-blue moire taffeta,
Elizabeth welcomed about 120 guests
from the country, from her old school,
Clyde, and from the Uni. Conserva-
torium, where she is studying singing.
Among the guests were Tony Yencken,
Wendy Falkiner, Sue and Jo McKellar,
from Stawell, Rosemary Winter Cook,
Sonia and Adrian Cole, from Darlington,
Helen Kennedy, of Corowa, and Jennifer
Haggard, Sue Boyd and Sue Tallis.
James Bowen Pain has been giving a
series of those intimate lectures he does
so well on the wine industry at the
Matthew Lang Cellars, and it says much
for his sense of humor that he could even
tolerate the complaint made by a wonfan
enshrouded in a cloying perfume that
she couldn’t detect any “bouquet” in her
wine. Among the guests was ex-prima
ballerina Helene Kirsova, who is now the
wife of Peter Bellew. Her dress of fine
black wool had long, tight sleeves, the
new winged cuffs and 24 flying panels in
the skirt. Another guest was Strella Wil-
son, who is combining a short holiday
here with some A.B.C. broadcasts.
After 18 years of solid work success
has come to Betty Sparks, who as a child
started her career in the J.C.W. chorus
and ballet. She was given the lead in
“Follow the Girls” on tour. Melbourne
audiences saw her last as Gretel in
“White Horse Inn.” She will soon make
her first appearance in a “straight” play,
when she will portray a woman-reporter
in “Separate Rooms,” which stars June
Clyde and Hal Thompson. Photo by
Ritter-Jeppesen.
After many years’ absence from her
native land, actress Nancy Brown has
returned home to marry Australian com-
poser Albert Arlen and make her home
in Sydney. But before settling down to
matrimony, Nancy, who has dark-brown
eyes, will play the lead in J. B. Priestley’s
“Ever Since Paradise.” She was guest-
of-honor at a cocktail party in the Aus-
tralia’s Orchidyroorn; the charm bracelet
with its many hearts which hung on a slim
gold chain about her wrist was much
admired. Two others who shared
felicitations with Nancy were Laurel
Mather and Anna Kemp, who will
also have parts- in the play. Laurel
is a Sydney lass who has come
home after a successful cateer on
the London stage. She is at home in
musical comedy, radio and “straight”
plays. Anna, who is fair-haired and
brown-eyed, came to this country only a
few weeks ago. “Ever Since Paradise”
will open at the Princess.
A party at Grosvenor, Toorak, was
held to celebrate < the engagement of
Shirley, only daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
E. L. Adams, of East Kew. Shirley, who
is an Old Grammarian, graduated last
year in dental science from the Uni-
versity. Her fiance is Phillip Norman,
younger son of Mr. and Mrs. Norman
Pleasance, of Toorak —he went to Mel-
bourne Grammar, served with the
R.A.A.F. and is now in his final phar-
macy year. Shirley’s frock was of ice-
blue satin; her engagement-ring is of
three diamonds set in platinum.
From Sydney
At last week’s Sydney Symphony
Orchestral Concert the lights flickered
weirdly above the gloom of the stage—
like Will o’ the Wisp over the haunted
swamps. In the middle of the first con-
certo, when the tympani, etc., were in full
blast, one listener wouldn’t have minded
if the swamps of imagination had become
a tidal wave and washed the atmosphere
clear of sound. But this opinion of the
Martinu work was not general. This
was its first performance in Aus-
tralia, and it met with salvos of applause.
The Vaughan Williams Symphony (first
time heard in Sydney) did not add to the
gaiety of nations.
But Miss Ruby Wilkinson’s red coat,
full-skirted and ermine-caped, did. It
was quite an interval-reviver. Miss
Nancy Jobson and a group of friends
from the North Shore line were snugly
wrapped in rugs and fur coats. In fact,
more than half the audience looked as
though they were setting out on a sleigh-
ride. Mrs. Hope Gibson rustled in black
taffetas topped by a threequarter bur-
gundy camelhair coat. The Gemmell-
Smiths and Mrs. Eric Whittle were
other North Shore liners. Mrs. Whittle’s
color-scheme was powder-blue. Lady
Butters, Lady Plowman, the Marcel
Dekyveres and Colonel and Mrs. Alan
Foott were glimpsed in the large audience.
Macquarie’s days (or nights) could not
have produced a prettier displaf of
candlelight than the home of Norwegian
Consul H. J. Hofgaard, last Wed-
nesday evening. The Bellevue Hill house
blazed with candles in high silver candle-
sticks, and kerosene-wicks in tall and
low containers. The effect was almost
electrical.
The party was in honor of Professor T.
Hytten and Mrs. Hytten, who leave early
in August for Hobart, where the Pro-
fessor takes up his duties as Vice-Chan-
cellor of the University. But Mrs. Hytten
was prevented by illness from being pre-
sent, nor were the friendly Minister for
Norway and Mrs. Jorstad among the
guests. They were on their way to
Queensland in the new Norwegian .ship
Solstad. Mrs. Hofgaard’s black crepe
frock was ankle-length. Her flowers were
orchids. The Claude Plowman lady’s
turquoise suit and the charm of Mrs.
Henning Hergel, wife of the Danish Con-
sul, were noted.
Sydneyites met Melbourne pianist Mar-
garet Schofield ‘ (in private life Mrs.
Donald Cochrane) at last week’s social
doings. They will meet her professionally
later on as associate artist with Viennese
soprano Elisabeth Schwarzkopf. Miss
Schofield, just back from England, had
the experience of being televised during
her work with the 8.8. C.
Twelve debutantes who will receive
the social accolade at the ball for the
Lady Mayoress’s Relief Fund were re-
ceived by the city’s first hostess last
Thursday morning. They also met mem-
bers of the relief committee*, including
Mrs. Guiney and Mrs. Noel Vincent —
the latter will present them to the Lord
Mayor and Mrs. O’Dea on the night of
the ball, September 1. Tess Scully, of the
Frances Scully school, will train the girls
in the making of curtseys and the dance
following the presentation. This is Tess’s
offering to the night’s success. The
youngsters will receive their coaching in
the Mayoress’s reception-room owing to
lighting difficulties after five o’clock at
the studio.
Mrs. Gladys Lister, well-known writer
of children’s and teen-agers’ books, gave
writer Dorothy Catts a welcome-home
lunch last Wednesday. Mrs. Catts, who
has been having a breathless six months’
tour of England and Europe, has had her
latest novel accepted by a London pub-
lisher. What with these memories, her
Paris hat and last Wednesday’s sunshine,
Dorothy was a very cheery guest-of-
honor. The Lister home at Vaucluse was
rich with flowers from the garden.
Another glad amenity was the coal-and-
log fire in the lounge.
One of Mrs. Catts’s treasured experi-
ences is her audience with the Pope. She
had brought with her to the Vaticah a
photograph of her grandchildren, and his
Holiness blessed it. Easter week in Paris
with Mrs. Nellie Stillwell, formerly of
Sydney, was another highlight. Mrs. Max
Murray, who, as Maysie Greig, has a
reading public in England and America,
was another at the party. She told that
her husband’s newest thriller is about to
be serialised in the “Saturday Evening
Post,” and the one before that, “The
Queen and the Corpse,” should be in
Sydney bookshops very soon.
The Girl in the Flat Opposite says that
another week of these Chif.-Conde basin
baths and she’ll be forced to declare her-
self black.
One of this writer’s good comrades on
The Bulletin staff, B. Elystan-Price,
died last week. This tall, frail-looking
Welshman —he was president of the
Cymmrodorion Society—had a heart that
beat in sympathy for the world. In par-
ticular his thoughts flowed out to Wales,
and every few weeks he sent many and
costly food parcels to some of the small
villages in his native land.
Margaret Salenger’s latest letter home
tells of the July Royal garden-party. Her
hat, which received many compliments,
had been taken by the traveller from
Sydney. It was pale blue, small in shape,
and exactly matched the shade of Mar-
garet’s afternoon-frock. All her acces-
sories were white. This was the garden-
party at which Princess Margaret was
noted wearing cotton gloves. The Syd-
ney girl reports the hotels in Scotland
as wonderful. Food and service of the
best quality. In some the visitor’s baths
were served in large basins in the bed-
room. Quite in Sydney fashion. At one
Scottish hotel during her tour, the band
paid Margaret and a group of her Aus-
tralian friends the compliment of strik-
ing up “Waltzing Matilda.”
The bright smile and the fair hair of
guest-of-honor Elisabeth Schwarzkopf
were the most luminous items of last
week’s Symphony Orchestral Committee’s
tea-drinking. Her fur coat had once been
the habitat of some luxury forest creature,
and her off-the-face hat was black
and very attractive. She made a pretty
little speech of thanks for Sydney people’s
kindness to her. Melbourne pianist Mar-
garet Schofield, who will be associate
artist during the Viennese singer’s concert
tour, met some old friends and made new
ones. She’s a bright girl who seems to
find life one grand, sweet song.
The A-B.C.’s Charles Moses and his
wife were there, and the Walter Swin-
sons, and Mrs. Hope Gibson, Mrs.
Walter Burfitt, Mrs. Hamilton Kirkland
and Mrs. Sydney Herring were among
those encircling the star. So were Lady
Butters, the newly-arrived-from-England
Judd couple and Director of Education
Mackenzie. With a name like that, he
must be descended from one of the clans,
and what seems to clinch his Celtic
origin is the keen interest he shows in
poetry.
Man-of-law T. J. McFadden moved
into a Darling Point flat a few weeks ago,
since when, every Sunday morning or
afternoon, he is pouring sherry for pals
dropping in to see his new home. Interest-
ing furnishing note is struck in the lounge,
where, in the windows overlooking the
Harbor, two yellow canaries sun them-
selves—they are the exact shade of the
linen curtains.
Ida Leason, who, before the war, was
head librarian of the Mitchell Library,
and who, during the war, did a fine job
with the South Pacific Commission, flew
off to Noumea by Pan-American clipper
at midnight last Thursday. She has an
appointment with the South Pacific Com-
mission now stationed there. Miss Leason
will be away from Sydney for at least
six months.
The Society of Women Wfiters thought
that a candle or a hurricane-lamp was
not good enough to light the monthly
lunch, so the members decided on a star.
They invited Evie Hayes-, and the brilliant
lead of “Annie Get Your Gun” will be
the guest of honor. She will be accom-
panied by her mother, Mrs. Hayes, so
there’s going to be lots of fun at the
Feminist Club tomorrow between one
and two o’clock. Writer Dorothy Catts,
just returned from her travels, will be an
associate guest; and women writers are
looking forward to a meeting with Violet
Roche, who was a member till she went
to the wrong side, of the Tasman. Violet
now holds an important job in Wellington,
Maoriland, with the Barnardo Movement.
A visitor was asked last week
what he thought of the Sydney girls. He
said he’d like to be asked the question
after the coal strike. “Just now they
look kind of all wool and a yard wide.”
To aid the N.S.W. Institution for the
Deaf and Dumb and the Blind, Lorraine
Norton is presenting a ballet, “Encore
for a Danse,” in the Conservatonum on
Friday evening, August 5, at eight o clock.
Remember tomorrow the 2/3 Anti-
Tank Regiment A.I.F. Association will
hold their annual ball at tire State Ball-
room. For reservations ring JA 6326.
Arrived in Sydney on Saturday by air
from America, soprano Joan Hammond.
She is on a concert tour of Australia.
Funds raised will help a team of Aus-
tralian women golfers to go abroad. Last
Monday she was playing in the Victorian
golf championships.


MWim
cr/
m
4
|wl
mm
$
A
i
a
v-
*
' v <
,
'u\\'\
• v . - - - '
SB*
As
: \\a^
a
&
-s**
w
HP
SAUCE
AUSTRALIA'S FINEST THICK SAUCE
okay
PRODUCT
Divorce Notices.
IN- THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO MARY ELIZABETH LUCAS—TAKE
NOTICE that HARRY LEONARD LUCAS
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 8737
of 1948 on the grounds of your desertion
for three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse and he is asking for the
Court’s discretion under Section 19 (2)
(a) If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Register
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 26th September 1949 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from
CHARLES GRIFFITHS, Solicitor, 164
Phillip Street, Sydney, New South Wales.
—(l.s.) J. DOUGHAN, Acting Registrar
in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GLADYES ROUX late of Copman-
hurst and of Glebe. —TAKE NOTICE that
ALBERT PETER ROUX has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 1247 of 1949 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Sydney by the 17th day
of October 1949 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from DONALD
WILLIAM MACPHERSON, Solicitor, of
Grafton, or MARSHALL, MARKS &
JONES, Solicitors, 67 Oastlereagh Street,
Sydney.—(L.s.) J. DOUGHAN, Acting
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO BENJAMIN WARBURTON BOOTH
late of Strathfleld Chemist. —TAKE
NOTICE that ANGELA BOOTH has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 1545 of 1949
against you on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to de-
fend you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 17th day of October
1949 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from MESSRS. PRIM-
ROSE, YOUNG & PRIMROSE, Solicitors,
12 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.— (l.s.) J.
DOUGHAN, Acting Registrar in Divorce.
Missing Friends.
TO PATRICIA MORRISON formerly of
Melbourne in the State of Victoria Mar-
ried Woman. —TAKE NOTICE that a cita-
tion bearing date the Seventh day of
February One thousand nine hundred and
forty-nine has been issued out of_ the
Supreme Court of Western Australia citing
you to appear and answer the petition of
THOMAS MORRISON of 5 York Street
Inglewood in the State of Western Aus-
tralia Labourer praying for a dissolution
of marriage IN DEFAULT of your so
appearing you will not be allowed to
address the Court and the Court will pro-
seed to hear the said petition proved and
pronounce sentence therein AND TAKE
FURTHER NOTICE that for the purpose
aforesaid you are within Thirty days after
the date of the publication of this notice
to attend in person or by your solicitor
it the Central Office of the Supreme Court
if Western Australia at Perth and there
to enter an appearance in a book provided
for that purpose. DATED the 18th day of
July, 1949. — (1.5.) G. J. BOYLSON,
Registrar in Divorce. MESSRS. CURRAN
it CORSER, of Nos. 35-39 Padbury Build-
ings, Forrest Place, Perth, in the State
if Western Australia, Solicitors for the
Petitioner. .
WOULD' any person knowing the present
whereabouts of DON ROSS SHEPPARD
(a son of Marjorie Annie Scott Sheppard
ieceased), formerly of Kensington Park,
South Australia, please ask him to com-
nunicate with FARMERS’ CO-OPERA-
PIVE EXECUTORS AND TRUSTEES
jIMITED, of 36 Franklin Street, Adel-
lide, from whom he will leam something
;o his advantage.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1878
Head Offices 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS: .
O. 0. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Yice-Chaiman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN 0. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
The SERVICE MAN
Fraser, Truman—
and Chifley.
“Ek Dum”: Whatever the
fate of the Compulsory Service
referendum in New Zealand
that and other current happen-
ings are enough to give the
crowd of “defence” Ministers
at Canberra a bad headache.
Discussing “fundamental
facts,” Major-General K. L.
Stewart, Chief of the General
Staff of the New Zealand forces,
said last week that the defence
of the Dominion was “inextric-
ably bound up with that of the
British Commonwealth, and, as
before, the fate of the country
in any future conflict would be
decided overseas, not here.”
Secondly, he said, there would
be no time to call up, organise
and train forces in any future
war. Aggression would be
“sudden and swift.”
Therefore the Maoriland mili-
tary system should be so de-
signed as to provide in a crisis
for immediate local defence and
at the same time to make some
troops available for “the broad
Commonwealth and Allied stra-
tegic plan.” Only by compul-
sory training in peace-time could
troops be ready and available
for instant action when occasion
arose. The only way to give
fighting men a chance was to
see that they were thoroughly
trained for battle.
The Government’s attitude
has been set out clearly in its
campaign advertisements. These
said: —
To be prepared is to guard peace—
it does not mean war-mindedness.
Sound training in modern defence
methods gives our men better pro-
tection if ever they have to bear
arms.
The compulsory system is the only
fair way... .The voluntary system has
failed in the past.
The compulsory system is the only
efficient way.
Efficient defence is essential in the
interests of everybody—it is to pro-
tect all that they hold dear.
On the whole, the Prime
Minister’s campaign was well
received except in areas where
the Communists had a chance
to organise violence. In Auck-
land a band of roughs, includ-
ing “many identified Com-
munists,” carried through for
two hours an organised scheme
of interruption and rowdyism
which prevented Mr, Fraser and
five other speakers from making
themselves heard. On the other
hand, at Nelson, where a party
of 14 men and two women
marched through the streets with
the usual Communist-type ban-
ners and slogans and delivered
speeches at the head of church
steps, their reception was any-
thing but courteous and con-
siderate. Eggs, oranges and
apples were thrown —these wea-
pons are obviously cheaper in
Nelson than in Sydney. Many
of the crowd of 1000 got out
of hand. Two of the speakers
were frog-marched off and
locked up in a type of building
not usually mentioned in polite
society. A third speaker had
his trousers ripped off and the
crowd carried him in a truck to
the nearest creek, intending to
duck him. He was rescued by
the police—“the bashers of the
capitalist State,” as Communists
are accustomed to call them.
It is obvious that if, in Aus-
tralia, “the people will have
none of conscription and no one
dare advocate it,” as was said
recently by a Labor politician, it
is more dangerous to be an anti-
conscriptionist in Maoriland.
The Truman Plan
On the day on which Mr.
Fraser was reaching the climax
of his campaign'President Tru-
man . was placing before Con-
gress a plan to give £454,000,000
to the European allies of the
United States to “overcome the
atmosphere of fear and danger
deliberately created by the
Soviet Union.”
The bill, which forbids the
handing-over of atomic wea-
pons to any nation, provided
for £A294,000,000 for military
equipment and technical train-
ing assistance to Britain, France,
Belgium, the Netherlands and
Luxembourg, £49,000,000 for in-
creased military production in
the Pact countries, £94,000,000
for military assistance to other
countries, including Greece and
Turkey, and £14,000,000 for an
emergency fund, apart from ad-
ministrative expenses. Also,
mainly for the benefit of South
American countries, the Presi-
dent asked for authorisation to
buy or sell arms to the value of
another £30,000,000-odd.
The urgency which is attached
to the measure by its promoter
is its most salient feature.
The United States State De-
partment, in an explanation ac-
companying the bill, asserted
that the reason for it could be
found in “the political aggres-
sion and expansionist aims of
the Soviet Union, abetted by the
malignant growth of interna-
tional Communism, which has
bred new fear and insecurity.”
The statement added:
A substantial portion of the world
is weak, and the judgments and deci-
sions of its peoples are rendered in
the shadow of the greatest peace-
time army the world has ever seen
The maintenance of large Soviet mili-
tary forces exerts constant pressure
limiting the free choice of peaceful
Western countries.
The military-assistance programme
can counter this pressure and ensure
to these peoples their ability to retain
a free choice.
Russia’s Armies
It is reported that* Russia has
6.000. trained men under
arms. This is quite possible. As
far back as the beginning of
1948 the best estimates placed
Russian strength at about 150
divisions, of which 120 were
about 10,000 strong. These
were based in Russia. About
30 divisions, each about 20,000
strong, were in occupied terri-
tory. The Regular Army was
estimated to contain about
1.000. men, plus 800,000
conscripts.
The 120 home divisions were
believed to be organised in six
armies, each with its own in-
dustrial base and supply area —
one at Leningrad, one in the
West, based on Minsk, one at
Odessa, under Marshal Zhukov,
one in the Caucasus (Tiflis), one
in Turkestan and one in Vladi-
vostok. They included 20
armored divisions, 15 artillery
divisions (10 self-propelled) and
30 air or airborne divisions.
There were, outside this force,
perhaps 50,000 Kremlin Guards
and 10 divisions of “free” Ger-
mans under Field-Marshal Von
Paulus.
The call-up for military
training each year is based on
about 2,000,000 eligibles who
could easily have built up the
force in the past two years to
the region of 6,000,000.
From the Canberra Socialist
point of view the sad part of it
all is that Russia, the United
States and New Zealand, like
some other countries, are all
wasting time and money in
training manpower for military
service. If their representatives
would call on the warrior
Cabinet at Canberra they would
soon be convinced that large
manpower is quite outmoded as
a weapon of war, .
Give Mr. Chifley a push-
button, a rocket-range and a
publicity man and he will fight
the world —boots and all.
Strange Bedfellows.
“Ek Dum”: There has been a
great deal of stir during the past
few days about the public
appearance in London of one
of the young men whom the
Commonwealth Scientific and
Industrial Research Organisa-
tion has sent to England at
public expense to study nuclear
physics at Oxford.
The young man, who bears
the name of Kaiser, turned up in
front of Australia House demon-
strating with others against. Mr.
Chifley and protesting against
the treatment of Communist
coal-strikers; the Communist
party’s official organ, the “Daily
Worker,” knew all about it in
advance.
This was a piece of base in-
gratitude to Mr. Chifley, who
has stoutly, along with Mr. Ded-
man, supported the right of
people like Mr. Kaiser to work
for the Government in the
secret places of defence re-
search.
Before the batch of nuclear
physicists was sent to England a
great fuss was made about the
manner in which they had been
“screened” by the Security De-
partment, which, from the point
of view of security, has not even
shown itself competent in the
“Where've you been lately , Chief? In cold-storage?"
past to screen its own Minister’s
staff.
It is now suggested that it
does not matter how “political”
or irresponsible Mr. Kaiser is,
because in the laboratories at
Oxford no secret work on the
atom is done. This is an utterly
specious argument.
Even if Mr. Kaiser were never
to do another tap for the Gov-
ernment the fact remains that
the Australian Government has
paid for him to learn the
methods of teaching <at Oxford,
and the direction in which the
thoughts of the great men who
preside there are running. The
taxpayer, of course, has had to
foot the bill, and ultimately Mr.
Kaiser can use the knowledge
he has obtained in whatever
manner he chooses.
Mr. Kaiser’s is not the oddest
case in the C.5.1.R.0. The case of
Arthur Rudkin is far more in-
explicable. This man was con-
victed of spying by a Westralian
court in 1940—0 f deliberate
organised spying, and of being
associated with others who were
engaged in'military spying and
taking their orders from the
Comintern (h.q.; Hitler’s
Vienna), He was sent to jail,
and counsel pointed to him in
the dock and said: “There is the
fifth-column.”
He is still lecturing and .writ-
ing against Australian defence
in Victoria.
Yet attempts by members of
Parliament, led by Mr. J, P.
Abbott, to dislodge him from his
position in the glue-and-ply-
woods section of the Forestry
Department in the C.S.I.R. failed
miserably. Knight David Rivett,
whom Mr. Kaiser says exercised
a “more liberal control” than
the present management of the
C.5.1.R.0., rebuked the M.Ps. in
language singularly similar to the
argot of the Communists and of
Mr. Rudkin —he called their
attack “witchhunting,” which
was the same word as the Com-
munist official organ and Rudkin
himself had used. Mr, Chifley
refused to interfere.
What could a man in the glue-
and-plywoods department of the
C.5.1.R.0. find out, he wanted to
know. He didn’t seem to know
that plywood is an important
material in military aircraft con-
struction.
However, a Government which
maintains as one of the execu-
tive of the Commonwealth De-
fence Research body, handling
all its scientific defence secrets,
a man whose professional quali-
fication is that of a railway-
porter, who himself hardly
spoke in the House of Repre-
sentatives while a member
of Parliament except to laud the
Soviet Union and blackguard
those most prominently opposed
to Communism, can scarcely be
particular about junior em-
ployees.
Mr. Mountjoy is, of course,
an executive member of the
C.5.1.R.0. only because he was
a defeated Labor political candi-
date. There is no other reason
whatever for his being there.
And when vital appointments in
a department essential to security
are made upon that basis, the
country dan expect anything,
even from a Government which
is receiving such a severe lesson
at present from what are
euphemistically spoken of as
“the militants.”


•••
f y w
■■■■ ■ ■ ■
,
- •
.xX.Xftx ,#■ : ft"_XX..x'
■■■: . " ' X
Wm
V ' , >;:v'
•; •• • ;
:
........ V v
S5XS>?<
* k'fy
' . •' ...
-■ ft ...V... •■•>:• "
m*Am
V/l
V
* ft . <
x ’ v< - .£
.ft "ft-'"'ft :fts 'ft- ftft" :
ft v 1 ; V - > ..
'ft.- .">XX;-ft
-
... :■
mimmm
mAmm.
.
' i
Sft'ftx
IE ¥
ft * * ■. t
- < ■■
X s
'ft
XftS % i!
:• X 1.
. ,v .
**** , , - , ,/ v
\'L ■ ' _- - ' ', - ' ■ --: ft t ■< .
WkT/ r \T\ Ct/illSTV -‘-.'.a
mm
; <■
:
7. : ..
i *■ •' r
V I I
8Tx .8 B ■■ ■ •>;■
illr •' 8L JKwaal
Ill I
mm
tm
mm
V. V
: :'
» '
s 8 ..
'V '
1 \
' ' ;
'
. • . '
5 - :
/
$ A.l > • >. -
" . . <■ > i
■* j; ;■. <
. V f
' .
-. - ' i X' ....
■' v
:i; : :v- ' - ;?• ■ ;
'
, \ v i
' ; »>... v, :x:;;..
■ %
V v "; x : ;’ E : .
x<./c
■' 0 i. . r x-
.... ■•-;• 'Ift:' xx; : ‘. %,..'
■ ft , 'x ' .'" ft ft v it ft ft ft
■ * .ft-' x ; -■ ft ft -
' ,;K X. ■•■:: ft> ft, ■ -, v ■
0iM
m
s v. M /i y^<
ft»x ’■ • ;•• <yft
,x&
ft ft <ft>
v
ft... ftft. ft. ftft
'ft X
■£. ft V > % ' '
: ftft"'. i "ft < t ft '
X .W'%. V'-.;ft
; ;X : ;- ■ .', %: ■ ■• '
V"~ x - ft' .
ft : <;.. x. Xx x ft', X .
■: \ ■'■> ■ :••■< :■ * - f
? % m \*
M ><•;.- .. v ••. \ s
x: ft. i, ft y . ft" ftftft ft" ft.
; ft ' X ft ...
V ■' <;X ■* ■ : 4:'\ / ' ■
' / " ’• -x ■ : ftft // <*• ' "
• ■ ' - •>.
r H p v
' V« \ *'• <<■ x > v O ' >4 > v ✓ ’?
X. >ft .ft ft. -x ftft .'ft f
4\. "'>•
-X.»•... ft ••:
' ' ft
x M ■' ■; ■
S v :<fc
% •;.% ■
' ft //
ii
Ltd. Abbotsford Ns. Victoria, Australia.
-O;


HUNTER
CIGARETTES
I
L
mm
hunlL
/
£>
-■ mmm.
'M'
*b
HaveaHwW
... .and again smoke
a favoured blend
29 for 20
EVERYWHERE
DISTRIBUTORS MAURICE NEWSIEAO PTY. LTD. «» CASTLUCAGH STRUT. SYDNEY
• ki
«9
'«: <nr K nXj
Wh
Established .1808 in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” hag seen many
battles, including the Battle
of Waterloo, and has em-
erged from them all with
greater strength and pres-
tige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
{England)
ATLAS BUILDINGS,
8 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
F. V. MIERS, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER, Assistant Manager
for Australia and New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT, Manager
for Australia and New Zealand.
THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
•
Under
STATE GUARANTEE.
•
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
‘ economically managed.
•
Writs or Call for
Free Booklet
19 O'Connell Street
(Box 7A, G.P.0.), Sydney.
P. J. P. Pullen, Public Trustee.
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr *
Barrere brings to rupture sufferers a
entirely new method of control, p
result of 40 years’ practice and im-
provements, proved completely suc-
cessful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the
hand when placed flat upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort ana
in all movements, hold the intestine
in its cavity.'
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BABBEBE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 26h), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
SUNDRY SHOWS
ABORIGINAL ARTISTS
Brisbane “Telegraph” has had
an exhibition of paintings by
Albert Namatjira, Walter Eba-
tarinja, Edwin, Otto and Reu-
ben Pareroultja, Mocketarinja,
Raberaba, Malbanga and
Namatjira’s three sons, Ewald,
Enos and Oscar. There is color
in the names; and all, to some
degree, show the strange shapes
and brilliant, light - charged
atmosphere of a country at
once Australian and alien to the
experience of most Australians.
Albert Namatjira is repre-
sented by only four paintings;
an “Ancient Ghost Gum,” with
the bole of the tree gleaming
like hot snow above tall
grass against the sky and the
weird, carved blue-and-purple
hills. The wood is like snow,
fretted in dark pits and patches,
with dark arms coming out of
the white mantle, and it is so
obviously wood that one can
almost feel the texture of it
against one’s finger.
There is another Albert
Namatjira, painted on bean-
wood, and a third, “The Fleeing
Kangaroo,” the tawny shape
swift with a sharp, fleeting grace
against a background of burnt
grass and blue crests. This pic-
ture has, painted on the back,
another picture, which is in-
teresting, because it was Namat-
jira’s first: houses, hills and
green outlines of trees, with the
pencil-marks still showing where
the artist-elect has cut the scene
into sections, A lesson, per-
haps, doubly valuable to those
painters who, having failed to
achieve art within a sound con-
vention, persist in claiming that
the convention is at fault.
Although there are, altogether,
four Namatjiras represented in
the exhibition, not all the
painters, naturally enough, are
Albert Namatjiras. One is con-
spicuously bad. But Enos
Namatjira has a painting of
Mt. Hermannsburg, Central
Australia, with a beautiful and
astonishing combination of
lights and shadows in a rocky
chasm; Gustav Malbanga’s
“Merini Bluff Range, Western
MacDonnells,” is a fine painting
of open, pale-gold country.
dotted with bushes and melting
into a background of blue and
purple corrugated rock, and
Walter Ebatarinja has a very
good “Corkwood Tree.” Eba-
tarinja is the only member of
the group who is not a full-
blooded aboriginal (he is a three-
quarter caste). Malbanga, whose
work shows rare. promise, is a
grazier under the Mermannsburg
Mission scheme, runs his own
cattle, is debt-free —and does
little painting.
What struck the writer about
the exhibition was the number
of visitors familiar with the
Namatjira country and their
expressions of delight at seeing
the brilliant shades and colors
perpetuated. Something quite
different, this, from the rather
patronising attitude of southern
spectators towards aboriginal
art.
I met there an aboriginal
from Queensland's far north who
couldn’t take his eyes off Albert
Namatjira’s “Ghost Gum.”
“Isn’t that a wonderful thing
for an aboriginal to paint?” he
said. I replied that it was a
wonderful thing for anyone to
paint, and asked him if he knew
the country. He told me he
knew it well —not that country
precisely, but country very like
it. I asked him if he liked the
exhibition as a whole. “So
much,” he said, “that I come
here every day to look at it.” —
J. F.
* * * *
John Webster, whose “White
Devil” was put on for probably
the first time in Australia by
Queen’s College at the Union
Theatre, Melbourne,, was the
most gifted inheritor of Shak-
speare’s poetry and dramatic
sense, but was denied humor
and a balanced view of life.
“The White Devil,” based on
Italian fact, suited Webster’s
talent for scenes of exalted
horror, and the post-Shak-
spearean public’s love of lust,
violence and astonishing stage-
effects: more than Shakspeare,
he depends upon skilful stag-
ing ; and in this Melbourne pro-
duction the lighting and setting
were admirably confected, and
the music, specially composed
and recorded by Miles Maxwell,
aged 18, gave the proper
atmosphere of brooding horror.
The bustling tale of murder, in-
trigue and seduction against the
background of a theology be-
nign in principle but savage in
example might have sounded
more real if the poetry had been
better spoken ; and the intensity
with which the dukes, counts,
titled harlots and pandars fight,
plot and make love was beyond
most of the young players. Neil
Curnow as Flamineo, a kind of
devil’s advocate to his brother
and sister, acted vigorously, as
did Elizabeth Malcolmson as
his sister; and the cardinal who
presses into his service all the
scoundrels, pimps and pandars
in Padua was well done by
George Nadel.
* * * *
Sydney Grosvenor Galleries
showed last week a fascinating
mixed exhibition, chiefly graceful
and sensuous lithographs by
Marie Laurencin and satiric
lithographs by Toulouse-Lautrec.
Four witty Lautrecs, an excep-
tionally powerful Marie
Laurencin and a rather empty
Raoul Dufy lithograph were
bought for the N. S. Wales
National Gallery, In a set of
watercolor drawings by Paul
Jones —included in the exhibition
with some random drawings by
Norman Lindsay, Percy Leason
and Thea Proctor —the land-
scapes were too inky but the
flowerpieces, in a sketchy way,
fresh and attractive.
* * * *
The best bit of painting in
Elizabeth Patterson’s show at
the Melbourne Book Club is
“Auction Sale,” a vigorous
piece of illustration with some
depth about it. Another rela-
tively good item is “Quinces.”
The fruit contrast well with their
background. In her landscape
painting she needs more observa-
tion.
* * * *
Mack lost, one of four Aus-
tralian musicians who received a
£lOOO Commonwealth post-
graduate overseas scholarship,
turned up last week at the
Assembly Hall, Melbourne, with
his two and a half years’ of
training under one of Europe’s
most eminent teachers, Herbert
Fryer, thick upon him. It
showed well when he tore
through and round the technical
obstacles of Ireland’s tortuous
Sonata in E Minor, but there
was a strange aridity about his
expression in the simpler motives
of Bach and Haydn, and he
treated Faure much as he did
the others. In the Sonata No. 3,
Op. 46, of Kabalevsky he came
into his own and steered his way
through its complicated rhythms
in a style that was often bril-
liant.
*• * * *
When most of us contemplate
the perfect crime we are in-
clined to lay the emphasis on
going undetected. In the mind
of the hero (John Dali) in
“Rope” at Sydney Mayfair, it is
the crime itself that matters ; his
must be a classic, a cultured
murder. With the aid of another
young man he strangles a third,
adding such flourishes as please
his eye, like placing the body in
a chest in the middle of his
sitting-room, draping the casket
with a table-cloth, and serving
from it dinner to the victim’s
father (Sir Cedric Hardwicke)
and fiancee. He invites to the
party the professor (James
Stewart), with a leaning to
psychology, who used to see
through him so easily at col-
lege. A period of exhilaration,
and then the young maniac
realises that, apart from his
rather dull and uninspired
assistant, there is no one in the
world who can appreciate with
him the beauty of his gem. So
he begins dropping little hints.
“Rope” is an “original.” In-
stead of the many short scenes
that, pieced together, make the
usual movie, Alfred Hitchcock
has filmed it a reel at a time.
He has followed players as far
as the doors of the flat that is
the setting, and kept the others
locked in that one small scene
from beginning to end ; and his
entire action, from the strang-
ling to the exposure, takes place
in the hour or two before night-
fall. He has done all this in a
natural technicolor not calcu-
lated to blind, and he gives the
best' beginning and best ending
to a film that this scribe has
seen. “Rope” is like a very good
stage play, or, even more, like
looking at a murder through a
keyhole.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Information Sought.
What queens did James, father of
Mary Queen of Scots, mean in his
quotation “It began with a lass and
’twill end with a lass” ?
The Scottish crown came into the
Stewart family through the marriage
of Walter, sixth Hereditary Steward
of Scotland, to Marjory, daughter of
Robert Bruce. Their son came to
the throne in 1371 as Robert II.
Marjory , was never queen, but she
was the mother of a king. The other
lass was, of course, Mary Queen of
Scots, news of whose birth was
brought to James V as he lay on his
deathbed after his forces had been
disastrously defeated at the battle of
Solway Moss in 1542.
* * * *
Recipe for mulled claret?
Half cup claret, half cup water,
1 egg, 1 tablespoon sugar, 1 or 2
cloves, \ inch stick cinnamon. Boil
the water and spices for 10 minutes.
Strain; add the claret and heat again,
but do not boil it. Then add beaten
egg and sugar, and stir till the con-
sistency of cream. Larger quantities
in proportion.
* * jfc *
Correct way to count back in golf
where two players with different
handicaps have the same nett scores ?
In stroke play for club competi-
tions, usual practice in N.S.W. is a
play-off. If count-back is taken, it
is on the best second nine holes; if
there is still a tie, then on the last
hole, and so on. In stableford events,
best second nine wins; also in par
events, though many clubs insist on
play-off in drawn par events.
* * * *
Recipe for whitening piano-keys
that have turned brown?
Browning is usually due to cellular
changes in the material of which keys
are made, and can seldom be re-
moved by cleaning. Mix fine whiting
with methylated spirits and apply with
soft cloth, taking care not to drop
any between keys into piano. Rub
off with a silk duster, and polish with
olive oil lightly applied. Keys should
be covered with a strip of light felt
and lid kept closed to avoid discolora-
tion.
* * * *
Some particulars concerning the
Cullinan diamond?
The largest diamond ever known,
it was discovered in 1905 at the
Premier mine in South Africa, and
when found weighed 3025| carats
(about 11b. 6oz.) as against the
186 1/16 carats of the famous Koh-i-
noor in its uncut state. It was pur-
chased by the South African Govern-
ment for £150,000 and presented to
Edward VII, and now forms part
of the Crown Jewels, its estimated
value being over £1,000,000. It was
cut into a number of stones, of which
the two largest weigh over 516 and
309 carats, respectively. It was named
after Sir T. M. Cullinan, a South
African mineowner.
Brief Answers.
A.W.M.: Joe Louis was only
beaten once —by Max Schmeling—in
all his 58 professional fights. Schfnel-
ing knocked him down, and out, in
round 12. Other opponents to knock
Louis down* but whom he came back
to beat, were James J. Braddock,
Tony Galento, Buddy Baer and Joe
Walcott E.K.: Queen Victoria was
born on May 24, 1819, succeeded to
the throne on June 20, 1837, and died
on January 22, 1901. The jubilee of
her coronation occurred in 1887 and
the diamond jubilee in 1897
G.M.: You may obtain expert advice
on waterproofing from the superin-
tendent, Defence Research Labora-
tories, Ascot Vale (Vic.). Include in
your letter full particulars of the type
of material you wish to waterproof
and the purpose for which it is re-
quired C.B.: Owing to the present
dollar situation the “Disston Saw,
Tool and File Manual” is no longer
obtainable from the Sydney distribu-
tors G.N.: Write Orlo-Smith and
Co., 244 Collins-strcet, Melbourne,
Vic F-A.F.McC.: Water is com-
pressible, but to such a slight extent
that for all practical purposes it can
be regarded as incompressible. If
you have any practical reason for
taking the compressibility of water
into account in any process, forward
further particulars L.K.: The fire
at Anthony Hordern’s, Sydney, oc-
curred on Wednesday, July 10, 1901.
The store buildings and approximately
£500,000 worth of stocks were de-
stroyed. H. Clegg was the man who
jumped from the parapet and was
killed... .A.W.B.: Get in touch with
the Australian Glass Manufacturers
Co. Pty., Ltd., Dowling-street, Water-
loo (N.S.W.). It is not possible to
quote prices, as this would depend
on the quality of the article. When
inquiring, it would be as well to
indicate the purpose for which the vat
is required so that some idea of the
strength and type of glass necessary
can be formed.
ANSWERS TO*
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the
MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be
addressed to the Editor.
J.F.: We doubt whether even
grandfathers wear nightgowns these
days A.C.: Some humor, but too
wordy and windy T.P.; Of merely
local interest... .P.R.B.: Poem awful,
and we were charged 5d. because the
awful poem was insufficiently
stamped E.J.D.: Killed by the
cramped and soulless style... .G.C.:
Hopelessly out of Bulletin’s line-
... .H.D.L.: One is too desultory and
inconsequent, and the other is in-
comprehensible A.W.W.: A fool-
ish production... .J.C.: You miss the
mark mostly by being' too prolix.
■...• •Bellerive: We’ve heard him out-
side many a pub:
. ...M.D.S.: No use for material
that has already appeared in other
papers ... .E.S.: No hope while you
keep in the same old rut R.W.:
Not a gleam of inspiration about
“Buster”.,, .W.H.: Fairly well writ-
ten, but runs on too conventional
lines T.S.: “Death in the Bush”
is very dead. Even the rhyme is
defunct, and the metre is a corpse.
N.A.: You appear to have some
literary forces, but you can’t mobilise
them... ,F.M.: Deciphered it with
difficulty and found it hardly worth
the trouble A.8.R.; Not this trip.
He mournfully rendered
Upon his trombone
The pathetic old ditty
“Sweet Belle Mahone.”
To gently sneeze he
Did cease his refrain,
Moved further on and
Did start again.
Business was good as
He sauntered his way;
Very touching were the
Tunes he did play.


%ai» Bars#
£>sT(£) HIS
WIPE JOAN
m
There’s something new to cure one faster.
Of cough or cold than mustard plaster.
No more these blisters I’ll endure.
I’ll purchase Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.”
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure
For Stubborn Coughs, Colds
"We, side by side, have aged and grown.
But here I tell you, plump and plain,
You shall not poultice me again!
4/0
or//?#
P&4/C/4 OPPFP/4/0-/A/
COLOURS
I
;
72 COLOURS
f
■
0
O other colour
pencil equals the
“Derwent” for the
superfine quality of both
lead and wood, the purity and
brilliance of the primary colours
and the delicacy of the pastel tints.
In all 72 accurately repeated colours,
no refinement has been spared to obtain
the highest degree of light fastness and
general permanence. The colours mix and blend
well in both wet and dry applications; effects
similar to water colour and tempera may be obtained by
applying solvents such as Dekalin. Unquestionably, the
“Derwent” will measure jup to your most exacting demands.
If unobtainable from your stationer, kindly contact your nearest agent.
Supplied in neat attrac-
tive stand cases in the
complete range of 72,
or in 36, 24, and 12
assorted colours. Also
boxes of 12 separate
colours.
C PENCIL COMPANY LIMITED")
Representatives in Australia
Vic., S. Aust. and Tas.: HUBERT JOHNSON PTY. LTD., 324-330 Flinders St.,
MELBOURNE, C.l. N.S.W. and Queensland: WYNYARD TRADING CO..
Kembla Bldg., Margaret St., SYDNEY. W. Aust.: CHAS. A. DONALD,
Economic Chambers. William St., PERTH.
ADVERT QF BRITISH PENS LTD., BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND.
Ancestors of
an Industry
W
i.
Cl
Peregrine Phillips invented the Contact
Process for making sulphuric acid. Though this
process was patented as early as 1831, it was
not developed commercially until seventy years
later, when it revolutionised sulphuric acid manu-
facture. Today, half the world's, output is made
in this way. Although his discovery ranks
amongst the most important advances ever made
in chemical manufacture, surprisingly little is
known about Phillips himself. Even the dates
and places of his birth and death are uncertain.
The only indisputable fact about his life is the
date of his patent.
A Peregrine Phillips, believed to be the inventor’s
father, opened a tailor's shop in Bristol in 1803,
but forsook tailoring in 1824 to go into partner-
ship with John Thorne, a vinegar manufacturer
of the same city. Peregrine Phillips junior—the
inventor —was also a member of the firm, but he
appears to have renounced his share about the
same time as he took out his patent. The wording
of this document shows that he must have had
both a good technical education and a capacity
for hard work, but nothing is known as to where
he acquired his knowledge or whether he ever
tried to exploit his patent com-
mercially. The year after he had
taken it out, the vinegar business
was sold, and Peregrine Phillips,
though still a young man, was
never heard of again.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
ICI
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S RED MILL RUM.
The 1949-50 racing season opened
with a Bank Holiday meeting at
Randwick on Monday. It is under-
stood that swabs will be dealt with
as usual by the A.J.C. —not the Privy
Council.
Meanwhile the old season was con-
cluded in fitting fashion at Canter-
bury on Saturday—a meeting which
seemed to epitomize several of the
salient features of the season’s racing.
Leading jockey Neville Sellwood set
the seal to a season’s consistently
good riding with one of the best
efforts of his career—including three
winners, he scored a place in every
race. Leading trainer Maurice Mc-
Carten saddled up his fair percentage
—two winners. The top apprentice,
Ray Selkrig, landed his winner. And,
among the horses, three-year-olds, as
they have done all through the sea-
son, predominated, with, particularly,
the £5OOO S.T.C. Cup going to Fox-
zami—the only three-year-old in the
field.
Appropriate, too, that Foxzami,
winner of the last Cup race of the
season, should be trained by veteran
Danny Lewis, who must surely be
Australia’s most prolific collector of
racing trophies; and what with Fox-
zami Vagabond and Proctor, Lewis
will be unlucky indeed ,if he does not
add to his collection of pots ere the
year is out.
The S.T.C.’s double of Winter
Handicap and Cup proved disastrous
for bookmakers. With hot-favorite
Denali home in the Handicap, Fox-
zami and Hurry Up were easily the
best-fancied pair in the Cup, and they
fought out the finish; third-favorite
Anthelion finished third. From go
to whoa Foxzami and Hurry Up
looked to have the Cup race to them-
selves. Apart from briefly surrender-
ing the lead to Regal Praise near the
half-mile, Foxzami was in front all
the way, and just lasted out to win
by a head from Hurry Up, who, after
being always handy to the leaders,
finished very spiritedly over the final
furlong. It was a splendid effort of
Foxzami’s, for the Nizami colt is not
yet in really peak condition and he
was conceding a solid matter of 101 b.
to the older and proven Hurry Up,
who, as a Queensland Cup-winner,
seemed most leniently treated with
7.9. Distance of tjie Cup when run
at Canterbury, instead of Rosehill as
originally intended, was li miles and
98yds.
Foxzami, who was ridden by W.
Fellows and started second-favorite
at 7 to 2, is a bay colt bred to the
same cross as the Melbourne Cup-
winner (and fine galloper at any dis-
tance) Hiraji, being by Nizami from
a Foxbridge mare. Foxzami seems
one of the best-weighted horses in
the rich spring handicaps, with 8.6
in the Epsom, 8.7 in the Metrop.,
and, missing a penalty, 8.8 in
the two Cups. It is worth remember-
ing that he finished ahead of Comic
Court in the A J.C. Derby and ahead
of Carbon Copy in the Victoria
Derby.
Apart from Foxzami’s lion-share
of the Cup Stakes, three-year-olds
bagged a fair slab of the remainder
of prizemoney distributed at Canter-
bury. Others of the age to get amidst
the cash were Saville Row (N. Sell-
wood) and Amar, first and second in
the Ashbury Mixed (first division);
Buzmark (N. Sellwood), Susan and
Silent Prince filling the places in the
second Ashbury; and Overseer (R.
Selkrig) and Coronation Joy, first
and third, separated by Star Vite,
in the Flying. Overseer, a son of
Veilmond-Miss Brueghel, turned on a
particularly impressive finishing burst
to win the Flying.
* * * *
Concluding the adjourned inquiry
into Latani’s performance when he
finished second to Fairy Fable in the
Leamington Hurdle at Caulfield,
V.R.C. stewards, alleging improper
practices, disqualified trainer A. Foul-
sham and leading cross-country rider
Laurie Meenan for two years apiece.
The stipes reported that Meenan rode
the horse “in such a manner as not
to permit him to run on his merits,”
and that Foulsham was a party to this
action. Meenan had only once before
been suspended (for one month), and
Foulsham, a trainer of 50-odd years’
standing, had not previously been
before the stewards.
No action was taken against, the
horse or his owner, and Latani took
his place in the Mia Mia Hurdle
field at Moonee Valley on Saturday.
Saddled up by O. R. Cox and ridden
by R. Hall, Latani started favorite
and won well. Challenged pugna-
ciously by the lightly-weighted Friar
of Thrace after clearing the last fence,
Hall had to ride Latani right out,
but he was drawing away at the finish
to score by three lengths, with the
grey Full Moon a moderate third.
Latani carried 12.5 as compared with >
the 11.13 (subject now to rehandicap)
ne has in next Saturday’s Australian
Hurdle and the 12.1 under which he
won the Australian Hurdle in record
time last year. Likely to be Latani’s
toughest opponent, Chatsol has 11.5
in the Australian Hurdle.
Success on Latani was the better
half of a mixed day for jockey Hall.
In the principal event, the £2OOO A.
V. Hiskins Steeple, Hall was on the
red-hot favorite David Star —though
not for long. They parted company
at the first fence in the straight the
second time round. Giving a very
sure performance, well up with the
leaders throughout, War Loan (R.
Watts) had a comfortable win from
The Feline and Paraphrase. War
Loan, a six-year-old son of Double
Remove, was solidly backed at
lengthy odds and started at 12 to 1.
“Wonder what she's like with the iron at home , though?"
Rewarding remarkable persever-
ance, the Glen Orla Handicap (13f.)
went to Doughboy (B. Jenkins). It
was the first race Doughboy had
won, and he did so two days short
of his ninth birthday.
Allowing him to go out at 7 to 1,
with four others preferred in the bet-
ting, punters must have thought the
handicapper had High Production’s
measure with an assessment of 9st.
in the Derrimut Handicap. Or, pos-
sibly, it was just another example 9f
the old axiom “the more they win
the better the price.” The Derrimut
was simply a repeat performance of
the Kiata Handicap run at the Valley
a couple of weeks back, with Senti-
ment favorite and looking the winner
turning for home —then High Pro-
duction fairly burning up the short
straight of his favorite course; High
Production by a half-neck, with
Merry Imp a distant third.
The Macedon colt Black Don beat
the Helios filly Ailsa by a head in
the first Coo-ee Handicap for two-
year-olds, but the honors were pretty
even. Ailsa carried 9st., conceding
the colt 121 b.; Black Don was drawn
in the extreme outside barrier posi-
tion and was forced to race horses
wide all the way. A winner at his
previous three starts over 6-furlongs
journeys, Tinkerman found the mile
of the Coo-ee beyond him, and
finished a poor third. The second
division of the Coo-ee saw Gilt
Archer return to form, or at least
have the best of a thrilling finish;
it was Gilt Archer (B. Eames) first,
a short half-head to Beau News, a
half-head to First Glance, and a
further half-head to Freighter. Last
race of the season, the Sunset Welter,
was appropriately won by the leading
rider of the season, J. Purtell, on the
grey Dhoti horse Nilam.
* * * ♦
For the Australian Hurdle: Chat-
sol, 1; Latani, 2; Man o’ War, 3.
* * ♦ *
Apart from having to play in a
wicked heatwave at Wilmington.
(Delaware, U.S.A.) the Australian
Davis Cup team had little difficulty
in eliminating Mexico, and now the
boys play Italy for the right to chal-
lenge the holders. Mexico was rep-
resented by .brothers Armando and
Rolando Vega. With the mercury
very close to the 100 mark, Armando
gave young Sedgman a bit of a battle
before the Australian clinched the
match at 12-10, 4-6, 6-4, 1-6, 6-3. After
that it was plain sailing, Bromwich
dousing Rolando 6-0, 6-2, 6-1, while
Brom. and Sedgman gave the breth-
ren no chance in the doubles, win-
ning 6-0, 6-4, 6-2.
At the expense of the Australian
businessman Fred Small, a resident
of New York who footdd the bill
for Sedgman last year after the
A.L.T.A. had declined to assist the
youngster, George Worthington is
doing the American tour, travelling
and practising with the Cup team. If
Worthington benefits as much from
the trip as did Sedgman, Australia
will have no immediate worries about
fielding a worthy Davis Cup team,
and Australian tennis will owe brother
Small a debt which the L.T.A. should
certainly in some tangible way
acknowledge.
* * ♦ ♦
Royal Sydney is to be the venue
of the Australian amateur golf
championship this year from Septem-
ber 14 to 24. There’s an inter-State
match for teams of seven, foursomes
championship and the championship.
Handicap limits are 3 from the stan-
dard scratch of 76, or 6 from a par
of 72.
* * ♦ *
Queensland and N.S.W. leather-
bpoters on Saturday evidently decided
to have things out properly, and tore
into each other at Aussie Rules, Rugby
Union and Rugby League. To report
the outcome as politely as possible,
it might be said that the Queens-
landers were gallant in defeat. In
Sydney, N.S.W. won the ’Rules
16.14-8.15, and the Union 20-8. In
Brisbane, the League massacre was
equally thorough, with the ’Walers
victorious by 33-13.
The ’Rules match at Sydney Cricket
Ground suffered from a surfeit of
counter-attractions. Attendance was
officially given as 4330, a figure
which, from the appearance of the
crowd, must have included stray
dogs and a quick count of the
Members’ Stand pigeons. At the
adjoining Sports and Show Grounds
there were 42,000 to see League and
Soccer matches, while just short of
11,000 crammed into North Sydney
Oval for the inter-State Union match.
* * * *
The Soccer match, Yugoslavia v.
Australia, was a thriller, with the
visitors crashing home a last-minute
goal to win 3-2. While the Yugs may
be only a shade superior to the locals
at the leather-pushing, they certainly
outdo them cold in the Old World
courtesy department. Opening pro-
ceedings, the Yugo. skipper presented
the Australian with a large bouquet
of roses. Evidently forewarned, our
man was able to respond with an
outsize in toy koalas. Then each of
the Yugs made quite a ceremony of
shaking his opponent’s dook, after
which the band gave forth with an
apparently correct version of the
Yugoslav National Anthem. Piece de
resistance, however, was turned on
after the game, when the visitors
formed a circle in the middle of the
ground, facing outwards, and bowed
low and gracefully to the departing
crowd.
* * * *
Only one match was played in the
Sydney Rugby Union competition *on
Saturday, when the all-conquering
Gordon had its toughest match of
the season to beat Norths 17-14.
He * * *
Carlton, Collingwood, North Mel-
bourne and Melbourne are level in
the V.F.L. “four” with 44 points
each, and Essendon and Geelong
have easy matches next Saturday
which could put both in the running,
because Carlton and Collingwood
clash that day. Essendon is to meet
the somewhat moth-eaten Tigers, who
couldn’t raise a yelp against the de-
spised St. Kilda on Saturday and
were stoushed 13.11-9.14. The Dons
had meantime taken on Carlton, the
leaders, on Carlton’s home ground,
and outsped and outbumped the Blues
to a 17.11-11.16 victory. Geelong, at
home to Fitzroy, more than doubled
the Maroons’ score, 13.9-6.7, and
shouldn’t be troubled by St. Kilda
next Saturday unless the miracle of
beating Richmond goes to the Saints’
heads. Steadiest team at present is
North Melbourne, which added
Footscray’s scalp to its belt by 8.14
to 8.11, and somehow manages to
get there in games which it looks
like losing. Collingwood had an easy
run against Hawthorn for 16.23 to
5.6, and Melbourne was too good for
South in the final spasm, 12.7-9.11.
* * * ♦
“T.”: Sweden has an amateur
sports body which conducts a nation-
wide football pool, 'based on English
Soccer League matches, and in a
few years has established a fund of
well over one million pounds. Out
of this the sports body assists all
manner of amateur sport, encourages
and tutors youngsters and contributes
to charities. So well has it encour-
aged its Soccer players that recently
a Swedish team defeated one of Eng-
land’s strongest professional teams
3-1.
* * * *
The fortunes of the battle swung
through a full arc during the Bernie
Hall (lOst.) v. George Kapeen (10.1)
bout at Leichhardt. In early rounds
Kapeen, aggressive, confident and
crowding his man all over the ring,
looked a certain winner. About mid-
way through, however, Kapeen’s form
deteriorated alarmingly, what time
cries of “Fish-o” echoed from the
rafters. In the 11th round Hall let
loose a right to the body, and Kapeen
slept the sleep of the just.


More Pleasure
from Mot
CORRECT tyre pressures mean more
than easier riding. They mean safety,
better control, less wear on tyres.
So check your tyre pressures regularly
with the accurate Kismet Tyre Gauge. . .
and when they need more air do the job
in half the time with a Kismet Foot Pump
or Renrut “Quad” Hand Pump. The
unique two-cylinder Supercharger action
makes every stroke unbelievably easy and
at full volume.
KISMET
sdf
Manufactured by
WILLIAM TURNER (Kismet)
LTD., Sheffield, England.
Agent in Australia:
MR. E. G, JONES,
43-49 Hardware St., Melb., C.t.
G.P.O. Box 71.
‘ Phenovis” Worm Remedy
m
=s^
m
J Sort rto/hy overt
—rtook you/
But Remember you must protect both lambs and ewes from
worms. Watch for early signs and drench with “Phenovis”,
the effective gastro-intestinal remedy, before your flock is
heavily infested.
The NEW “Phenovis” Powder
Mixes easily.
Forms a stable fluid suspension.
Flows easily through the drenching gun.
Ensures the most accurate dosing of stock .
FROM STORES, MERCHANTS AND PASTORAL HOUSES
H 7-127
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"SON'T WORRY,I'M, SENDING IT TO GRAZCOS."
Fodder-conservation.
“He-Ne”: N.S.W. Royal
Agricultural Society has just
finished another conserved-
fodder competition, and is not
altogether pleased with the dis-
covery that farmers seem to be
like other people in supposing
that good times go on for ever
or that it will be time enough to
do something when a bad time
comes. The competition showed
plainly that, whereas the men
taking' part in it had stored
adequate reserves of feed, the
body of farmers generally
haven’t done so. This is one of
the reasons why every minor
drought or bad winter causes
Stock losses and why the R.A.S.
persists with a great work in
spite of disheartening apathy.
Too many people look upon
fodder - conservation as either
the prerogative of “big” or
“wealthy” farmers or as purely
a measure against drought. The
truth is that the small man who
stores fodder will very likely
become a “big” man and then
be accused by his neighbors of
being “lucky” when they’re los-
ing stock and he isn’t; and con-
served fodder is a standby against
hard winters just as much as it
is against drought. The man
who puts away feed and hands
it out to his stock to keep their
condition up during winter is
merely adopting the practice of
the ants and bees, yet his num-
bers are few.
Far too often, when a hard
winter or a short drought hits
the country—or part of it —a
howl is put up by the improvi-
dent, and Governments are
called upon to expend vast
amounts of tax money in fodder-
freight concessions, grants to
buy feed and so forth. Yet there
is hardly a farm that isn’t cap-
able of producing enough surplus
fodder and storing it to take the'
farm stock through a bad season.
One of these days an indignant
community will demand punish-
ment for the man who neglects
to protect his stock.
Until that day comes the
R.A.S, will have to battle on,
trying to provide examples and
preach the lesson it has been
preaching for over 20 years, and
spending money it could well use
for other purposes. Meantime,
it is looking for a means of
widening the scope of the com-
petitions with the idea of attract-
ing more attention and carrying
its messages to more farmers.
Winners this year: South-
west, open section, E. C. Jones,
Wanalta, West Wyalong ; second,
D. T. Clarke and Son, Blythe-
ville, Kikoira; third, K. Mc-
Intosh, Willowlee, Weethalle;
graziers’ section, D. Ross, Aber-
feldie, Holbrook; second. Dr.
S. Goldberg, Carmel, Griffith.
North-west, open, J. A. Shorter
and Son, Dunkeld, Merah
North; graziers’, Mrs. K. M.
Cadell, Meryula, Premer.
Central West, open, T. L. Bray,
Waugan, Forbes; graziers’, W.
H. Swain and Son, Riverview,
Peak Hill. ,
South Coast: H. O. Cox, Mel-
ross. Kangaroo Valley, first; D.
A. Gowing, Medowette, Bega,
second.
Dips—Ancient and Modern.
“Bungaree”: Of the modern
insecticides, D.D.T. and benzene
hexachloride (8.H.C.) have now
been in general use long enough
to become known, although on
account of certain peculiarities
attached to their use they have
not proved so popular as they
should. As sheep pass through a
bath their wool has a tendency
to remove or “strip” the fluid
of certain of its constituents. We
are accustomed to making up the
dip to its original level to re-
place the water taken out —any-
thing from igal. to £gal. per
sheep—but it has taken chemical
analysis over long periods to
prove that, even although we
omit to add more water, we must
add more dip concentrate to
keep the bath up to ked-killing
strength. As a matter of fact,
this process was also operating in
rotenone dips, although to a
lesser degree.
D.D.T. and B.H.C. as dips
have given excellent results
against lice and adult keds. They
have the advantage over arsenic
that sufficient insecticide remains
in the fleece to kill all eggs and
pupae hatching out for a con-
siderable period after dipping, so
that, properly used, a single dip-
ping in D.D.T. or B.H.C, will
exterminate all keds and lice on
the sheep, and any that it might
pick up within a reasonable time
after dipping.
These new insecticides are
particularly suited for use in
power-spray dips, which are
coming into increasing use. Al-
though the C.S.I.R. experiments
were restricted to the two main
parasites, there are reasonable
grounds for expecting much
wider influence on other external
parasites. 8.H.C., or its active
ingredient gammexane, has been
very successful on foot-lice in
sheep, and promising results
have come from experiments
with gammexane on sheep
affected with itch-mite.
Hopes are entertained that
still newer insecticides —chlor-
dane and toxaphene —will give
even better results, but the dollar
shortage is likely to keep these
out of Australia for some time.
It has been abundantly proved,
however, that the new dips—par-
ticularly B.H.C. or gammexane—
"i want a drink of water!”
are as great an advance on
arsenical dips as shearing-
machines are on the blades.
A Warning for the N.T.
“Outback”: David Rivett,
former chairman of the C.5.1.R.,
says that development of the
Northern Territory along wrong
lines might result in the utter
devastation of certain land types.
Development of beef production
called for' biochemists of high
ability ; political and commercial
heads could not deal with it
adequately.
During the last year or two
one has become accustomed to
public servants after a •couple of
years’ experience, say on the
Meat Board, setting themselves
up as “departmental experts” on
the meat industry, and it is satis-
factory to know that a man of
Rivett’s calibre has no illusions
regarding the skilled knowledge
of such “experts.”
Planners and practical men, he
said, would not discover the
difficulties applicable to the pro-
posed development regions until
it was too late, and then they
would be unable to solve the
problems when chemists dis-
covered them.
A sense of reality regarding
N.T. development seems to be
descending on Canberra, and
not before time! A Press mes-
sage from there said that the
original estimate of an output
of 400,000 tons of beef a year
from North Australia had been
discarded by the Federal Govern-
ment as impracticable, and the
Minister for Post-War Recon-
struction would tell British Food
Ministry officials in London that
an extra 70,000 tons of beef
could be produced under the
North Australia development
scheme. The total annual out-
put at the end of seven years is
now expected to reach 110,000
or 120,000 tons. Such a target
should be possible, but it will
not be achieved unless Labor
Governments, both Federal and
State, take a more sympathetic
interest ih the beef-cattle indus-
try than they have taken hither-
to.
Feeding Pigs.
“A.M.M.”: The aim should
be to produce at least £3-worth
of pig-meat per cow to get the
best out of the feed-supply.
High prices are paid for special
feed mixtures and various kinds
of minerals, and too much
value is placed on such fancy
mixtures. It is those without
feed who buy such mixtures —
when there is plenty of feed on
the farm the ration can easily
be made right.
Check production. Under
average conditions 61b. of feed
can produce lib. of pig-meat as
dressed carcass. Under the best
conditions lib. of meat can be
produced for 41b. of feed.
A gallon of milk, two gallons
of whey; lib. of good meal,
maize, peas, barley, pollard or
wheat; 101 b. of mangolds,
swedes, grass or other green
crop ; 81b. of carrots; 61b. of
sugarbeet and 51b. of potatoes,
apples or artichokes are equiva-
lent to lib. of standard feed. To
get the best return high-quality
feeds like grain and meals and
skim-milk should be diluted
with at least 40 p.c. of home-
grown roots or grazing.
From a feed-supply of, say,
10001 b. the production should
be 1601 b. of carcass, equivalent
to one heavy baconer or two
average porkers. It should be
the aim to keep one sow for
every 10 cows, and for each
cow kept lewt. of meal for pig-
feed should be bought.
Pigs in sties should be fed
regularly with green-feed, as
well as loz. daily of a mineral
mixture. A mixture of four
parts of ordinary carbonate of
lime and one part of salt is in-
expensive and adequate. If no
grain is being used four parts of
lime, four of super, and two of
salt are better. Super, or basic
super, is as good as steamed
bone-flour and is cheaper.
Making Greenhide.
To cure greenhide
peg the freshly-skinned hide out
on a level surface in the shade
—using plenty of pegs and
stretching well. Remove fat and
flesh, then cover with as much
salt as it will absorb, making
sure that all parts are treated
liberally. Any surplus can be
swept up and used on the next
one. Should, a hide be stinted
for salt it will be hard and
glassy and of very little use.
After leaving pegged out until
cured (say, a week) it* may be
taken up and left spread out —
still in the shade—until re-
quired. In white-ant country
keep hides out of their clutches.
Drought-feeding.
“Atlanta”; When complete
hand-feeding is necessary it is
important that sheep don’t
waste energy in fruitless walk-
ing. Keep them in large shady
yards with a set of feeding
troughs, from which they can
be excluded when necessary.
The amount of feed saved by
yarding can be gauged from the
fact that it takes an extra half-
ton of maize per 1000 sheep per
week to provide for their walk-
ing six miles per day. Feeding
near a reasonably ‘salty bore is
another way of keeping them
handy to feeding points.
If they are weak when feeding
begins feed heavily for the first
fortnight to strengthen them
quickly. For this maize is great
stuff, and it pays to use it almost
regardless of cost. One and-a
quarter times full feedinig, plus
.roughage, is a safe ration for
''the first two weeks. On this
basis increase 6oz. of maize (or
its equivalent) to about 80z. per
head per day, Boz. to lOoz. or
12oz. to 160 z., according to cir-
cumstances. Where there is wide
variation in condition draft the
weak from the strong.
With lambing ewes on hand-
feeding wean early and feed the
lambs. Even if it is necessary
to wean lambs into yards, it is
preferable to letting them hang
on the ewes. Once separated
from their mothers they should
be fed fairly heavily on a weight
basis, and roughage must be in-
cluded. Lucerne, hulled oats
and poultry-growing mash are
all useful for this purpose be-
cause of their high protein con-
tent.
To stop losses when the
drought breaks maintain a dump
of feed close to the sheep so
that feeding will not be inter-
rupted through lack of supplies,
continue feeding (preferably
roughage) until there is a rea-
sonable body of feed, and don’t
let the flock scatter when it
rains.
Sprouting in Seed Potatoes.
“Rooster”: Chemicals have
been tried on one variety (Snow-
flake). Indications ar§ that they
will retard sprouting, giving the
grower an opportunity to extend
the storage and selling season
beyond the period when spring
and summer temperatures have


Ltt& circlet
FACING A PARK
The one thing you will Imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere • . . the absence of
noise and hustle. , , , The
Wentworth faces a park . . . yet
It is merely “round the comer”
from the centre of the city. The
all you would wish
service and cuisine
rooms are
. . . the
excellent
THE WENTWORTH
in
c z^^dne^
Thone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
Nu-METAL
SAVES
ENGINE NEW
REBORE RINGS
Just pour RE-NU Liquid NU-METAL
through plug holes. NU-METAL ■will re-
condition your motor while you drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles, and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL has been proved and
tested by over 100,000 users since 1934,
many owners having used NU-METAL
three and four times in the same engine.
NU-METAL comes to you in a separ-
ate tube for each cylinder, thus eliminat-
ing guess work. Municipal Councils,
Engineers, etc., use NU-METAL. Treatment
costs for 1,4, 6, 8 cylinders, 10/6, 30/-,
37/6. 45/-. Call, write, or phone MA7250.
Mail Orders post free. C.O.D.’s plus
Postal Charges.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return NU-
METAL to treat a Cylinder Engine.
1 enclose Cheque—P.N.
Or please send me illustrated Folder
describing action of NU-METAL.
Name
Address ««n^
B. S/8/’49
BRISTOL TRADING COMPANY
Ist Floor, Bristol House,
147 Elizabeth Street. Sydney. MA 7250.
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
SMOKERS
PIPE TOBACCOS THAT ARE
BLENDED TO GIVE
SATISFACTION TO ALL.
HOUSE OF MURPHY. A blend of
the highest grade of leaf to give a
cool smoke of satisfaction that men
prefer. 22/- per lb. Posted.
A.A.A. HIIXTOP. A blend of
Australian, American and African.
20/- per lb. Posted.
WINSTON BEADY RUBBED
CIGARETTE TOBACCO. Greatly
improved by better blending of
mature leaf. 24/- per lb. Posted.
Special Quotes to Retailers for lots 20/6.
weight or over.
Write to: Cash Order Dept.,
Hillman Trading Co.,
Commercial Road, Brisbane.
Postage paid on Cash with order.
Postage extra on 0.0. D. Orders.
For Sale.
CLIMBING TOMATO, bears a whole
year, yields 2001 b.; has 20ft. runners
loaded with large red tomatoes. Disease
and drought resistant. Sensation in
America. 2/6 pkt. posted.
N.S.W. SEED CO., Kurnell, Sydney.
I
LANE’S
TRAPS
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
9
8" Jaws
Folding Springs
OBTAINABLE FROM
ALL STORES &
PASTORAL SUPPLY HOUSES
as in great
grandfather’s day—
Pastoralists profit from
the complete and efficient
service of A.M.L.&F.
UZ.9
' 'V/'-A
. 'J
vssssssssssssssysssssssssssssss&*vyyssssA***ssssyssssssssssj,
AMLF
Sale of woo) • Stock and produce p
Pastoral finance • Station requirements
In c. in England 1863
AUSTRALIAN, MERCANTILE, LAND & FINANCE COY. LTD.
Head Office for Australia: 4 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
and at Melbourne and Brisbane.
Country Branches—N.S.W.: Newcastle. Wagga, trenty. Hay, Cowra,
Scone, Moree, Sarah. Wee Waa, Brewarrina. <?ld.: Townsville, Charleville,
St. George, Cunnamulla, Dirranbandj. Associate agents: McPhie & Co. Pty.
Ltd., Toowoomba, Oakey, Dalby. Vic.: Wodonga.
Ho. 3 in SHELL’S “Australian Artists” Series.
/
♦
! f
f
S
■i
h >
II
I I
9
m
t
0
rJ|
&
THE SEARCH FOR OIL-PROSPECTING IN QUEENSLAND
-h with a scene interpreted by Charles Bush
Near Rolleston, in Central Queensland
Charles Bush visited an oil drilling
team at work in Shell’s unceasing
search for oil in Australia.
With his characteristic flair for the
dramatic, Bush chose for his painting
the vital heart of the unit . . . the
assembly of the drilling bit and the
men who operate it. The heat, hard
work, tension and excitement of oil
prospecting in the outback are im-
plicit in every line of this fine action
picture, typical of the work of one of
Australia’s most interesting young
painters. v
The scene is typical, too, of the
determined, untiring efforts of Shell to
locate oil in Australia. In 1939, Shell
began the search in Southern Queens-
land, and expects to spend up to
£1,000,000 on exploration in this
area. When deep drilling begins,
twelve months’ work should indicate
whether or not further work in the
area is justified.
The above scene in full colour bj Charles
Bush will be published as occasion offers
bj Shell.
You can be sure of
SHELL
SHELL
The Shell Company of Australia Ltd. (I no. In Great Britain)
0494 f
warmed storage localities. This
would naturally be an advantage
to grower and consumer.
Sprouting causes shrinkage:
(1) by removing stored food
material from the tubers; (2)
by loss of water content. This
shrinkage varies considerably
from year to year, depending on
the variety, locality and season.
An unusually warm spell would
tend to induce growth pre-
maturely. The writer has par-
ticularly noticed this during the
present season. A few warm
days and the sprouts lengthen
visibly, despite modern methods
of storage.
Of the chemical compounds
tested, it has been shown that
the methyl ester of alpha naph-
thalene acetic acid is the most
effective. Experiments con-
ducted during 1948 at the Potato
Marketing Board, North Mel-
bourne, were followed with in-
terest by Victorian growers.
Various chemical dusts were
used. M.A.N.A. was the most
successful, the sprouts reaching
a mean length of o.9in. after a
three-month period, and I.sin.
after a six-months period. The
dusts in no way injured the
tubers, although different quan-
titative experiments were made.
The dust must be applied as
soon as possible after harvest,
and in any case before the onset
of rising temperatures.
Overseas various forms of
M.A.N.A. dust are already on the
market, and it is certain that
sooner or later it will be used by
many Australian growers. 'Costs
are rather high at present, up
to £2 a ton, but keen demand
would probably reduce that esti-
mate. Considering .the huge
wastage from sprouting, any
method of inhibiting it would be
well worth a trial. In America
the idea has caught on in a big
way.
Raising Ducklings.
“Biiljim”; Start them on regu-
lar feeding, 36 hours after hatch-
ing, with a wet mash fed four
times daily, comprising two parts
of pollard, one part of bran by
weight with 5 p.c. of meatmeal
and 3 p.c. of bonemeal, plus 1
p.c. of salt. By weight this
would be 601 b. of pollard, 311 b.
of bran, 51b. of meatmeal, 31b.
of bonemeal, 11b. of salt. Dis-
solve the salt in the mixing fluid.
Mix the mash with skim or
buttermilk powder dissolved in
water at 11b. per gallon. Give
finely-chopped green feed as
soon as the ducklings will eat it.
After three weeks increase the
proportion of meatmeal. From
three to six weeks three mashes
daily will suffice, with a feed of
soaked wheat or wheat and
barley a§ a late-afternoon feed.
From six weeks until marketing
two feeds of mash will be suffi-
cient and one of soaked grain
or dry grain in a shallow trough
of water.
Shellgrit, sand and charcoal
should be available always. In
addition it is essential that for
every bucket of mash two
buckets of green feed should be
provided. Where green.feed is
not readily available, the defi-
ciency can be made up by 1 p.c.
of vitaminised oil in the mash.
Show Vegetables.
“Sarina”: When entering
vegetables in a show, remember
that those of uniform size and
quality have a much better
chance of winning than a mixed
lot, combining some outsize and
some very small.
Discard distorted specimens of
carrots and other root crops. It
is useless exhibiting root crops
unless they have been grown
quickly in good soil with plenty
of water. The judges will cut
them, and the fibrous matter on
the inside will tell its own, story.
Size is a great help towards
attaining top marks, provided it
is allied with tenderness and
palatability. Certain vegetable
varieties may be grown to an
enormous size without deterio-
rating in quality. Some of them
are: Lettuce, Imperial Black
Seeded, Neapolitan ; beet. Obe-
lisk ; cabbage, Succession;
radish. White Icicle; tomato,
Ponderosa; cauliflower, Pheno-
menal Early; carrot, Chantenay
or. St. Valery.
Hints for the Farm.
“Rooster”; To maintain the
characteristic shapes of shrubs
and trees, prune the lateral
branches proportionately. Also
remove the main leader if it is
desired that the plant should
spread more widely. Don’t cut
established trees too severely at
any time; it encourages sucker-
ing. Suckers should be twisted
off —not cut —as soon as they
appear. Trees which are prone
to root-suckering are of little
practical use in the garden.
“A.M.M.”: An effective
home-made dressing for footrot
in sheep can be made up of the
following: Over a slow fire mix
one part of powdered bluestone,
one part of lard and two parts
of Stockholm tar. Apply when
the feet are dry. Bad cases will
need treatment two or three
times a week.
“K.T.”: Make sure the chicks
receive plenty of fresh, young
greenstuff. For young growing
chicks lettuce is excellent, but is
probably too expensive for adult
fowls.
“My”: It’s the odd fly that
survives the winter that’s respon-
sible for summer’s millions. In
number they’re few, but you’ll
always find some, even in the
coldest months, in sheltered
situations; exterior walls on
calm, sunny winter days are a
favorite haunt. Try spraying
these at two-monthly intervals
with a D.D.T. mixture, £lb. of
an aqueous suspension D.D.T.
warmed until melted to liquid
form and stirred into a gallon of
water. This makes a 2% per
cent, solution, suffipient to spray
through an atomiser over 125
square yards.
“Helldud”: On the under-
neath side of a shelf attach a
dozen screw tops from clean
glass jam- or honey-jars of half-
pint capacity. When jars are
screwed into the caps they pro-
vide excellent storage for small
screws, nails, fittings, etc., which
are always visible without re-
moval of jars,
“Big Billy”: To overcome a
zinc deficiency in fruit-trees try
a winter spray of zinc-sulphate
at the rate of 501 b. to lOOgal. of
water. Apply either before
pruning or just after.


w
\
If bakes and browns
fa perfection; bolls, simmers,
toasts, deep-fries and does
the most glorious grills that
ever came staling to fable.
A coke-burning stove that stores its own
heat, the AGA is ready for instant use day
and night, and its fuel-costs are strictly
controlled ... it has a guaranteed maxi-
mum fuel consumption. Streamlined, and
with sparkling enamel finish, the AGA is
an asset to any kitchen ... a life-long
servant guaranteed for 10 years against
faulty materials or workmanship.
AGA
THE HEAT-STORAGE COOKER
You are invited to see the AGA
in action at our showrooms,
LEVIN AND COMPANY LIMITED
Sole Agents lor AGA Heat Storage Cooker
45 King Street, Sydney ... 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Showrooms: Colton, Palmer & Preston Ltd., Currie Street, Adelaide;
Cnr. Margaret & Albert Streets, Brisbane;
Tasmanian Agents: A. G. Webster & Sons Ltd., Hobart;
W.A. Agents: Malloch Bros. Ltd., Perth,
A4/HJB,
BLOTCHY
SKIN
marred by spots,
rashes and pimples is
quickly cleared by
Cuticura Ointment. It as-
sures skin health. Always
keep a tin of Cuticura Oint-
ment in the house. Good for
cuts, bruises and sores. One
of the famous trio- Cuticura
Ointment. Soap and
Talcum Powder. 533
s
BRANDAUERA
ss
sc?
I*'*
PENS
Every point
guaranteed—
do'not experiment with imitations
C BRANDAUER A CO. LTb„ BIRMINGHAM, EN&
RYACROS3IHEPACIFIC
OfiMjcuAioM Oaciftc dtyie
SLEEP ON LAND BY NIGHT!
TRAVEL BY AIR IN THE DAY!
A NEW IDEA IN AIR
SERVICE AND COMFORT!
When you fly Canadian Pacific to
Canada—you have the extra com-
fort of sleeping on land each night
at colourful Fiji and romantic
Honolulu with hotel room and
meals at no extra cost to yon !
Through transportation may be
purchased in Australian currency.
n-
ii
5 1
■
I
mm
HOURS OF COMFORT IN
THE AIRI
Full-length-reclining ‘Loungaire’
chairs. Courteous, efficient per-
sonnel. Superb service. Wonder-
ful meals. 4-engine pressurised
cabin liners. You fly relaxed—
arrive refreshed—when you fly
Canadian Pacific style.
For further details apply Canadian
Pacific Railway Company, or Union
Steam Ship Co. (General Agents),
2J t 7 George Street, Sydney, and
59 William Street, Melbourne, or
any authorised Tourist Agency.
QomoJUgm (Hutfcc
mmAIRMsSLINES
“THE WINGS OF THE WORLD’S GREATEST TRAVEL SYSTEM”
Canadian Pacific Air Lines Limited—lncorporated in Canada
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CPU the No. I Deink for wisc mcd
•F +
“The lump in the throat that’s
hardest to bear is the one caused by
having to swallow one’s words.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
For further information see
Mr. Chifley.
■F »F »F
“Pisces : Should there be a tiff with
the boy- or girl-friend it will soon blow
over. Older subjects may be greatly
occupied with the affairs of their
children. Thursday for a bright
flash.” — Sydney “Sunday Telegraph”
astrology blurb.
Heavens! Don’t say the
pressure-lamp is going to blow
up!
*F
“Fish supply light.”
— “World’s News.”
What! Electric eels for Bun-
nerong?
“Robber posed as tax official.”
—Sydney “Sun” heading.
Ill was the very naturalness
with which he fitted into the role
that gave him away.
•b _*b 4*
Striking.
“So sorry!” I said as I
bumped her in the blackout, “I
thought you were so-and-so.”
Her dimple was delicious.
“Oh! That’s all right,” she
replied. “I thought you were a
friend of mine, too, one so-and-
so.” She glanced archly at the
parcel under my arm.
“Is that a spirit-heater?” I
said it was. I added I had ob-
tained it at great expense and
personal peril. She smiled.
“I have a steak here,” she
went on, “and vegies and so-and-
so” Tears filled her eyes,
as she sighed and glanced at my
parcel again. I succumbed.
“All right,” I said. “Come up
to my flat. We’ll rustle up a
meal on my new cooker, and
perhaps a spot or so ,of so-and-
so.” She was delighted.
The meal was a roaring
success. So was the bottle of
bombo. As the cold night drew
on we waxed merry, chatting of
this and that and so-and-so. At
times she grew grave. How
childlike she looked in the
candlelight! How innocent! It
was incredible. Then we talked
on of so-and-so, and then I men-
tioned the strike. Her long
lashes curled up invitingly as she
looked up at me thoughtfully.
“Those —hie —Commos,” she
said, “are a lot of so-and-so’s!”
Jonas Dill.
•b *b *b
“Nobody expects to see an elabo-
rate make-up before breakfast.”
— Woman’s paper.
Unless you want a jar of
cream from the milkman.
•b *b ►!*
“Fashion’s revolutions are impar-
tial.” — Woman’s paper.
But they don’t only appeal to
the fair.
Flat Out to Win.
“It would be terrible to think that
all women athletes were hard-faced
creatures with no sex appeal.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
It’s good to see our girls in trim,
But men must view with deep
alarm
The wiry type more lean than
slim
And quite devoid of female
charm
Engaging now in contests grim.
For, if our lasses who perform
With discus and on running
track
Are mannish, picture what a
storm
The fans will raise if athletes
lack
All indication of their form 1
So let us hope they can escape
Such boyish eagerness to win
That, having lost their erstwhile
shape,
They’ll come in leading by a
chin
Where once they used to breast
the tape.
BERT.
Very Speedy.
“Moscow Radio has revealed that
at a special display Soviet jet-fighter
planes flew so fast they ‘dissolved in
the air,’ while allowing the test pilot
to parachute safely.”
Professor Liarov, the great
Soviet inventor, whose proto-
type jet-engine had been copied
by the English Air-Commodore
Whittle, who had impudently
passed it off as his own inven-
tion, had just put the finishing
touches to his very latest jet,
which he had at first thought-
lessly classified as Mark IV. A
visit by the N.K.V.D. had con-
vinced him that it could be in-
terpreted as treason to use a
symbol similar to that of the
“And now, sweet dreams. I'll be back again the same
time tomorrow night.”
plutocratic democracies, so he
promptly altered it to Marx IV.
The professor was that same
Liarov whose fleets of jet-
bombers in their 5000-ton
nightly raids had, despite the
attempted sabotage of the so-
called Allies of the West on be-
half of their Nazi friends they
pretended to fight, reduced Ber-
lin to rubble. Since then he had
produced faster - than - sound
planes, but these had long been
scrapped from the Soviet Air
Force as being outmoded.
His first faster-than-light jet-
fighter had been a magnificent
success. After it took off it was
never seen again, but some three
months later the collectivised
postmaster at Barbarovitch had
sent up with the usual half-
yearly bullock-wagon mail to the
capital a startling report that at
the same time as the fighter had
left Moscow airport a worker
in the town’s co-operative mud-
sorting factory had heard a
most peculiar whistling sound.
He was convinced it was a jet-
plane, though he had never
actually heard one before.
Another worker who had sug-
gested that the whistling was
only the happy expression of
the factory’s slush-lamp-filler
who had just denounced his
mother-in-law to the N.K.V.D.
for harboring an anti-Stalinist
thought had been immediately
shot for harboring anti-Soviet
Trotskyite ideas’ The fact that
Barbarovitch was 2000 miles
from Moscow was proof of the
terrific speed of Prof. Liarov’s
new jet. The necessity of M.
Vyshinsky two days after the
take-off to issue threats to
Sweden if she didn’t hand over
to Russian authorities a Soviet
pilot who had landed his plane
in Stockholm and asked for
sanctuary had, “Izvestia” de-
clared, no possible connection
with the other incident.
Faster and faster became the
wonderful jets evolved by Prof.
Liarov. Deciding that th e
English-type swept-back wings
were quite useless, he hit on the
idea of the swept-aside type;
these he eventually discarded in
favor of just plain swept wings.
The first plane of this type, the
Marx IX, took off from Mos-
cow, flying east, just after the
inventor had finished his morn-
ing dipper of vodka. Ten
minutes later it reappeared, com-
ing from the west. In hailing
this colossal feat of being the
first plane to circumnavigate the
globe in so short a time, M.
Vomitov, the Soviet’s ace propa-
ganda writer, said in “Depravda”
that this shattering achievement
completely nullified the atom-
bomb, and urged the war-
mongering Americans to dump
their stockpile right away.
It was with the Marx XII that
the professor’s planes first be-
gan to dissolve—these, appropri-
ately, were seaplanes, which dis-
solved much easier in water. To
the plaudits of Press and radio
M. Stalin added his own special
encomiums and bestowed on the
great designer the Order of the
Feathered Stoat, Eighth Class. A
minor official who carelessly
asked a friend what might hap-
pen to the Soviet Air Force if
all its planes were to dissolve
when they got into the air was,
a few days later, starting on an
extended holiday in a Siberian
saltmine.
Now dubbed The Dissolver-
ator by his scientific colleagues.
Professor Liarov, who was be-
ginning to wonder if he was a
professor or a patent sewerage
system, woke one morning
around 2 a.m. to hear the front-
door being hammered down.
Immediately recognising the
symptoms, he quickly cut his
nails very short to make it hard
for his inquisitors to get a lighted
match under them as a friendly
preliminary to inviting him to
say a few words.
“Is it for sabotage because I’ve
been dissolving valuable planes
in the air?” he asked the Chief
of the Secret Police.
“Far worse, Comrade-pro-
fessor,” returned the C.S.P.
“You are charged with acting as
an agent of an Imperialist Power
by killing our best test-pilot.
When he fired a cannon from
your Marx XV plane this morn-
ing the plane was going so fast it
caught up with the shell, blowing
pilot and plane to pieces. Just
try this thumbscrew for size.”
BO.


THE OTHER FRLLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4j|d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
The Work Problem
This strike business goes a lot deeper
than surface chatter about arbitration
and cursing of essential workers out on
strike. There are two main questions,
The first; Are the unions, in the main,
really genuine in their demands? Is there
some conceivable point at which they
would say “enough”—for argument’s
sake, a 24-hour week and a £2O basic
wage? Never mind how absurd that may
sound. Look back 50 years and check
the differences already achieved.
The second question: Are they.merely
seeking complete and final domination of
the country, with totalitarian control? If
that is so, no amount of constitutional
dithering can possibly mend matters,
Direct action, with troops, citizen forces,
etc., doing work which unions refuse to
do is the only answer. We have our
natural resources, and if we actually
prefer to go cold, footsore and hungry,
instead of bucking in and getting them
out, then we deserve to perish as a nation,
If, on the other hand, there is a point
at which the unions will call a halt, then
that aspect must also be faced squarely,
We will just have to understand that
our so-called progress and modem civili-
sation has led us all into a horrible man-
trap, encouraged and strengthened by the
centralisation policies of successive Gov-
ernments all over the world.
The day will come when the man who
toils with his hands at dirty, hard, un-
pleasant and often degrading work will
be the one who commands the large in-
come. Our social structure will be turned
upside-down because we have got too
soft for our own good—because genera-
tions of doting parents pushed their sons
into jobs which put a shine on the seats
ef their pants and taught them to be
ashamed of hard, honest toil.
The incredible growth of useless, un-
productive paper-work bears eloquent
witness to our absorption in office
strategy, “administrative” technique and
all manner of time-wasting rubbish. Vast
hordes of people, like white-ants, occupy
themselves day and night in compiling
and tabulating the useful work of others
—these others gradually getting fewer
and fewer.
Certainly we must have services as well
as goods, and the man who runs a dry-
cleaning business is just as important as
one who digs potatoes, but we have got
topheavy about it and afraid of work—
real work. “Gripes, you get it easy” is
the highest accolade in our code today,
—R. H. G. (W.A.).
.
Population
“Castlereagh” (B. 6/6/’49) claims that
Australia can support a big crowd be-
cause it contains a big area. He fails
to see that the very vastness of our con-
tinent is an argument to the contrary,
There are certainly thousands of square
miles of fertile land, but their value is
often reduced according to their dis-
tance from ports, railways and markets,
Some of the principal cities are further
from each other than they are from
foreign harbors. There are no shortcuts
from Albany to Brisbane. Trade and
commerce must follow the fringe of an
often barren shore that borders the huge
expanse of arid or unexplored territory.
Our flocks and herds are frequently
compelled to Crosse parched deserts or
swim floods to reach saleyards or
escape droughts. Ores must be carried
hundreds of miles to furnaces. A sheep-
station may be as large as an English
county and as far from an abattoir as
Land’s End is from John o’ Groat’s.
In the Old World districts instanced
by “C.” the earth is conquered by toil
and sweat. In Australia the sky dictates
the conditions. When the rains fail the
strongest arms are helpless to avert
famine, and an army equipped with
ploughs and pruning-hooks would not
avail anything.
There is still room for migrants of the
right kind, but it is strictly limited by
geographical and elemental conditions
undreamed of by Europeans who have
never been beyond the sound of church-
bells, or crossed a Nullarbor Plain, or
gazed on a landscape whitened from
horizon to horizon with the skeletons of
starved stock. — Migrant (S.A.).
The New Prosperity
'Labor’# propagandists roaming the
land are definite in stating that farmers
are more prosperous than ever before.
Of course they give the “Labor” Govern-
ments the credit. One organiser, who told
me that farmers were spending more
money on beer and amusements than
they used to, didn’t like it when I pointed
out that a lot of farmers were rich in
cash only because they couldn’t spend
their earnings on farm improvements —
such necessities as fencing-wire, roof- and
tank-iron, etc., are unobtainable. — Bill
C. (Q-).
The N.T.
Too much nonsense about the popu-
lation potentialities of the N.T. has been
written by armchair geographers who
don’t consider such limiting factors as
quality of the soil, incidence and reli-
ability of rainfall, evaporation ratio, etc.
The Territory is not by any means the
paradise “5 G.R.” thinks it is, even for
cattle (B. 15/6/’49).
The N.T. is relatively poor cattle coun-
try. All monsoon countries are. Rain
comes in the hot months, encouraging a
quick, rank growth with a low initial
nutritive value, which in the dry be-
comes unpalatable —hence a falling-off in
condition during that period and an
overall stunting of growth. Army con-
tractors found that out when minimum-
weight limits per beast had to be brought
back to 5001 b. in order to keep up sup-
plies. The great cattle countries of the
world (with the exception of India, which
doesn’t figure in the commercial meat-
market) are those of the temperate grass-
lands with good-quality soil and a reason-
ably uniform rainfall. There is no com-
parison in carrying-capacity and quality
of product between the Territory and,
say, the Argentine.
Talk of cutting up the large stations
for closer-settlement for cattlemen is so
much poppycock. Grazing areas must be
large ; the small man will never make
a go of it for many reasons. ,
Considerable capital is required for
establishment, and, because of the poor
pastures, living areas must be calculated
in hundreds of square miles. Markets
are distant and droving costly. Away
from the watercourses there is not a
decent stick of timber for miles. The
low scrub which covers most of the land
is sufficient evidence of poor-quality soil
and an unfavorable distribution of rain-
fall.
The British scheme to replace Argentine
“baby” beef through large-scale pastoral
development of the N.T. is all right in
theory, but it must certainly take these
limiting factors into consideration. It
must also include a plan to develop
fodder areas on the more fertile strips
near the watercourses for topping-up,
otherwise the British people are in for
a tough time.
“5 G.R.” should know that there can
be no real comparison with the Punjab,
because that region has five never-failing
snow-fed streams for irrigation. And
an area that has been farmed as inten-
sively as the Punjab has for so many
centuries can’t have been given the
thrashing he alleges; its productivity
would have disappeared centuries ago.
It is useless to cite as typical of the
whole of the Territory the subterranean
reservoirs at Wycliffe. Large-scale irri-
gation in the N.T. is virtually impossible
because of lack of elevation for storage
areas, porosity of the subsoil and also
the unsuitability of the terrain for re-
ticulation. Again, with an evaporation
ratio of 80 per cent, and a seven-months
“dry” the “saturating rains” lose the
major part of their theoretical efficiency.
The unpalatable fact is that the N.T. is
not capable of maintaining a large popu-
lation at our standard of living.—Bar-
won (N.S.W.).
Training Civil Air-crews
Are our civil airlines so keen on
making profits that they are putting safety-
training of pilots and crews (B. 20/7/’49)
in the background? Many recent acci-
dents all over the world may have been
averted had the pilots had greater know-
ledge of flying safety and emergency air-
manship.
Australian companies proudly boast
that their crews fly only a limited number
of hours monthly and have an abundance
of rest periods and days off. Issued with
the flight “bumph” is another claim
assuring passengers that even if one
engine failed, the aircraft could carry on
safely on one engine.
Both statements are true enough, but
quite irrelevant, as no mention is made
of the pilots’ ability to land and handle
the plane on one “donk,”
Instead of making and working for
high profits and cutting one another’s
throats airline companies would gain a
greater public confidence by spending
more money in training their crews in
emergency procedures during their time
off passenger flying.
Flying is like driving a car. It quickly
becomes routine, and so one is apt to be
slow when an emergency does arrive. The
R.A.A.F.’s all-round flying-safety record
was well ahead of any Australian air-
line operating today, and we did not have
all the radio-aids thrown in now. —
Waddlin’ Willie (Vic.).
After a Job
Chasing a few extra bob, I went
around to the Commonwealth Employ-
ment Service after a part-time job. I
found there several notices stating that
they would have no truck with applicants
“with alcohol on their breath,” and others
explaining what grand opportunities
there are in the Permanent Army, the
P.M.G. Department or the Department of
Main Roads.
When I was admitted to the inner office
and had sat down I noted that the leg of
the interviewing officer’s chair was tied
securely to that of the table, a measure
which, he explained, was to prevent ap-
plicants “creeping up on you and look-
ing over your shoulder.”
My age and education recorded, the
officer announced: “The only thing we
can offer you is a job as night-cleaner
in the Transport Department. It’s a posi-
tion of trust.” Armed with a chit, I
went around and tried to become a
cleaner. They wouldn’t have me be-
cause I already had another job—a fact
which I had clearly stated to the inter-
viewing officer. Back at the Employ-
ment Office I was greeted less cordially
and told to go again to the transport
people: “Tell them your whole case, the
simple truth. I’m sure they will help.”
Having already done all that, I simply
waited outside the Employment Office for
a suitable interval and went in again with
the news that the answer was still “No,”
and asked if there was anything else in
the offing. The gist of the interviewing-
officer’s speech was that he had no more
time at the moment to devote to the case,
that he had done his very best, that a
telegram would be sent to me in the
event of suitable employment becoming
available and that I should call in now
and then to check up. “But,” concluded
the officer, “don’t just ride me. Ride the
other officers as well.” — Spike (N.S.W.).
Municipal Costs
In my district it has been ordained by
the powers-that-be that the various func-
tions of the shire council should each
have its own official, so in place of the
council foreman, who exercised all these
functions, we have an engineer, a tax-
collector, a building inspector, a sani-
tary man and a town clerk. When we
had one man who did all the jobs every-
thing was very fine and we had good
roads. Of course we are very proud of
our new bureaucracy. The only thing
is that now we can’t afford good roads.
—M. G. S. (Vic.).
Timber and Dollars
Despite Chifley’s announcement that
there must be a drastic cut in dollar ex-
penditure, 90 per cent, of timber-framed
houses in course of erection in Sydney
are, except for bearers and floor-joists,
being built of American Oregon. That
means an increase of around £lOO in the
cost of the framing alone.
Millions of feet of hardwood lie rotting
at country sawmills, and so scarce has it
now become that window-sills, usually
made of tallowwood or other approved
hardwood, are now being made of Baltic-
pine and approved by Housing and Rural
Bank inspectors.
Six-inch sheet-lead flashing for window-
frames is unobtainable, and an increased
cost of over 200 per cent, is being in-
curred by using zinc sheet, which costs
anything up to 10s. per opening in
plumber’s wages alone in moulding and
soldering it to shape.
“Fibro nails went out with high
collars,” remarked a hardware assistant
when asked for them. “Springheaded
roofing hails also are unobtainable, but I
have something better,” and from under
the counter he produced a box of spring-
headed aluminium nails. Then, noting my
doubtful look, he took a nail and drove
it up to the head into a piece of hard-
wood.
Those nails cost me 6s. 3d. per pound,
an increase of 500 per cent, on the cost
of ordinary nails, but there were 143 to
the pound. Searching for 2in. x fin. arch
bars, nominally worth 25., I eventually
landed two straightened car-springs for
Is. 6d. a foot.
I know what homeless people are
enduring, but my advice to prospective
home-builders is wait for another year,
and save a couple of hundred pounds and
a good deal of worry. Prices cannot re-
main at present levels, and by that time
labor also will be easier to obtain and
more work will be done for the money.—
Old Carp (N.S.W.).
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 28
(CRYPTIC TYPE.)
Across.
I—Such1 —Such scores provide alternative
thorax shares of food. (14)
7 —The bonnet or the boot make
Diana sit back with a heart ail-
ment. (12)
10— Wren, for example, is an archi-
tect of such. (4)
11— It is novel to vacillate on the
meadow. (8)
12— Paintings, sculpture, etc. (3)
15— Merit near changes. (4)
16 — Bacon used to use such a pen. (3)
18 —Wind an inverted mineral when
Georgia is on the Siberian River.
„ A (6)
20—It can be black, white, red,
yellow—yet always much the
same color. (3)
22 Ruined when knocked about and
put in prison. (6)
23 Suitable little flat. (3)
24 It makes an animal rear. (4)
26 — Feeder I put among bees. (3)
27 Unmetrical writing about the
circuit displacement of an organ.
28— Republican thanking a word of
comparative importance. (4)
30— The scorer frustrates the cheque-
butts. (12)
31— Not just in civic redistributions
of eye trouble. (14)
(Solution in next issue.)
Down.
I—Conceited superior of ning as
distinct from NING. (11)
2 Deathly looking blackguard to
swear nothing against us. (10)
3 The cost of tenancies on the
rocky mountain river rapids. (8)
4 Hungry prima donna is upset. (4)
5 Stone used in the assault. (5)
6 Chatoyant drunk. (4)
8 — Bung part of Ireland. (4)
9 Obstructive incursion l . (6)
13 — He writes the name, street and
town qn hats and such-like. (11)
14— Tapestry interceptor of a square-
cut is ordered to fondle it. (5, 5)
17—The residents of this Victorian
town can never say that they
have no place to live in. (3)
19—It may be fleeced by me and the
king-emperor and a contradiction
of 17 down. (6)
21 —Purge the imitator that is over
the Northern Territory. (8)
25 — Compare the French in the in-
terior of the French key that is
usually bass or treble. (4)
26 — It is rasher to study under an
Arts, graduate. (5)
28 — Thanks the Lord Chamberlain
for powder. (4)
29 — Nameless girl is upset. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 27.


THE
SECRET BALLOT
PROTECTS
THE UNIONIST
against Communist Domination
We have consistently advocated the introduction of
the secret ballot because
—IT WILL ENSURE THAT THE WILL OF THE MAJORITY
SHALL PREVAIL
—IT WILL ENABLE THE RANK AND FILE TO CONTROL
THEIR OWN UNION,
—IT WILL PREVENT INTIMIDATION OF ANY UNIONIST.
We shall, when returned to office, make it a con-
dition of registration of any Union or organisation
that its rules shall provide for the election of office-
bearers by a secret ballot of all members under the
supervision of an officer of the Arbitration Court.
jR. G. MENZIES ,
PARLIAMENT HOUSE , CANBERRA .
Authorised by D. M. Olcland, 30 Ash Street, Sydney.
m
■
m
GIVE FINANCIAL SUPPORT TO
THE LIBERAL PARTY—
send your contribution to
State Headquarters
FLBB-45
