

WINE FOR BRITAIN!
Ip Have yon friends or relatives in the United Kingdom? Here, then, is news that mast
interest yon, Just imagine them toasting you at Christmas Dinner while you toast them
in the same wine twelve thousand miles away! That’s possible through the "WINE-rOK-
BBITAIN” scheme introduced by The House of Seppelt. Through their London Office, Seppelts
will arrange for your friends in the Homeland to be supplied with Seppelt Wines before this
coming Christmas. You’ll have to act at once for Christmas will soon be here. Get details
of Seppelts “Wine-For-Britain” scheme: Write to The House of Seppelt, Box 1432 H, G.P.0.,
Adelaide, South Australia.
A
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
SERVICE
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” VoL 70—No. 3637
Wednesday, October 26, 1949
Price 6cL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
/CHELTENHAM is known as the “city
of magnificent distances” owing to
its splendid situation on the River Chelt
amidst flat green fields at the foot of the
Cotswolds which almost reach to its
eastern suburbs. It is celebrated not only
as a fashionable inland health resort but
also as an important educational centre
and the focus of a fox-hunting district.
The present city of 53,000 inhabitants
grew from the small, village of Chintin-
ham, which, in the days of Edward the
Confessor (1042-1066), paid the King
nine pounds in taxes and 3000 loaves of
bread for his dogs, but in 1086, at the
time of the Domesday Survey, sixteen
shillings was paid in lieu of bread and
twenty pounds in taxes, together with
twenty hogs and twenty Cows. In 1716
a saline spring was discovered, it having
been observed that pigeons flocked to a
particular field to pick up the salt left
after evaporation by the sun. The spring
was bought by a certain Mr. Mason, who
enclosed it and laid out a bowling green.
The water, which was discovered to con-
tain healthful properties, was sold as
medicine until 1738, when Captain Skilli-
corne, who had married Mason’s
daughter, built a small pump-room over
the spring. From these humble begin-
nings Cheltenham became a spa, and
after the visit of George 111 and the
Royal family the city became fashion-
able. Other important visitors were
George IV in 1821 and Edward VII
(1897), who said “it would be difficult
to find any part of England surpassing
this neighbourhood in loveliness of
scenery.”
The oldest building in Cheltenham is
the Church of St. Mary, founded in 773.
In the churchyard is an amusing elegy
which reads;
“Here I lies with my two daughters
All along of drinking Cheltenham waters;
If only we’d stuck to Epsom Salts
We shouldn’t be lying in these here vaults.”
Cheltenham’s importance as an edu-
cational centre dates from 1576, when a
Grammar School was founded here. To-
day Cheltenham College ranks among
the leading public schools of England. It
was founded in 1843 and has accommo-
dation for over seven hundred boys.
Charles Sturt (1795-1869), the great
Australian explorer, died at Cheltenham,
and on The Promenade, one of the most
beautiful streets in Britain, may be seen
a statue of Dr. Edward Wilson, who died
with Scott at the South Pole in March,
1912.
CHELTENHAM. ONE OF ENGLAND’S GREAT PUBLIC SCHOOLS


Learn 1
Story
Writing
ot HOI'fF
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
8.8. 249 AG8.......
The Red Page
EXIT THE GHOST.
It is high time somebody wrote a book
to end all books about Hamlet; for the
more that are written —and a new study
is published every year—the more com-
plicated the argument becomes.
In Coleridge’s day it was hardly neces-
sary for the critic to argue with anyone
except Dr. Johnson; but Dr. Richard
Flatter in Hamlet’s Father (Heinemann)
finds himself obliged to dispute with
Coleridge, Goethe, Hazlitt, Chambers,
Roderich Benedix, T. S. Eliot, Dover
Wilson, Granville-Barker and Dr. Bradley.
By a signal mercy he has not read
Salvador Madariaga’s recent best-selling
On Hamlet, for, rightly believing that
Ophelia was an innocent whom Hamlet
grew to hate “not ad personam but as
representing the sex to which his mother
belongs,” he would undoubtedly have to
argue with the learned Spaniard, who
thought she was a harlot.
Dr. Bradley did in fact write the essay
to end all essays, evolving from his own
acumen and the errors of his predeces-
sors the perfect solution to the central
mystery of the play; but Bradley, alas,
was human, and slipped on one or two
minor points. And that makes room for
Dr. Flatter,
Dr. Flatter is able to correct Bradley
and others concerning Hamlet’s emotional
state when he agrees to fight the fatal
duel with Laertes. Bradley, whose only
fault was that he had a very nice mind
and was inclined to credit Hamlet with
a nobility of temperament not wholly
justified by the facts, thought that Hamlet
was completely duped by Laertes and
the King and went to his doom with
“noble carelessness” and in “that trust-
fulness which makes us love him.” Pro-
fessor Dover Wilson also thought Hamlet
was merely “careless,” and Granville-
Barker thought he fell in with his enemies’
plans in “impatient indifference.”
A generous or ingenious definition of
“careless” and “indifference” might show
these commentators not to have been so
very far wrong after all; but, seeing that
he can undoubtedly prove it from the
text —
Not a whit —we defy augury! There’s a
special providence in the fall of a sparrow.
If it be now, ’tis not to come: if it be not
to come, it will be now: if it be not now,
yet it will come. The readiness is all.
Since no man has ought of what he leaves
—what is’t to leave betimes? —
it is as well to have it clearly stated by
Dr. Flatter that Hamlet, whose mood is.
always more inclined to suicide than to
murder, agrees to the duel “with open-
eyed awareness that in all likelihood he
is going to his death.”
Dr. Bradley’s nice mind again gets him
into trouble in his belief that Gertrude
is “evidently genuine” in her surprise
when Hamlet accuses her of murder; for
against the opinion not only of Bradley
but of Chambers, Granville-Barker,
Dover Wilson and Dr. G. I. Duthie, Dr.
Flatter is able to demonstrate from the
text, with reasonable plausibility, that
Gertrude, if not precisely an accomplice,
at least suspected that something was
pretty rotten in the State of Denmark.
He does this by examining at length the
“plaintive sing-song” more-or-less passed
over by his scholarly adversaries;
To my sick soul, as sin’s true nature is,
Each toy seems prologue to some great
amiss:
So full of artless jealousy is guilt
It spills itself in fearing to be spilt . . ,
lines which do seem to suggest that
Gertrude had more guilt on her mind
than could be explained by previous
adultery and an open if hasty and “inces-
tuous” marriage.
The Ghost, of course, is not helpful on
this point; but if he knows that, before
or after the event, his former queen has
at least connived at the murder, that
makes all the more remarkable his mag-
nanimity—an attribute of his character
on which Dr. Flatter has some illuminat-
ing words:
In the days of Aischylus it would have
been impossible to bring back to the
stage the murdered Agamemnon and make
him forgo his revenge and even forgive
Clytemnaestra. The Athenian audience,
trained in older ideas of religion, morals
and justice, would have failed to under-
stand that attitude. Two thousand years
later —and it yields a little comfort, sorely
needed indeed, to see that, measured by
millennia, mankind is making progress after
all —there now appears a man who had been
deceived by his wife, with the result (to
put it in a purposely vague manner) that he
was murdered. He is not in the least
unaware of what she had done; he speaks
clearly of her adultery and does not mini-
mise her guilt. Yet from the beginning he-
wishes to spare her any punishment or
even recrimination: he forbids his son to
contrive anything against her.
But it is unwise to dispute too much
with so wise a bird as Dr. Bradley; and
it is positively unscrupulous, having
smitten Bradley for minor lapses, com-
pletely to avoid combat with him on the
major question: for Hamlet’s Father,
like all books on the subject, submits a
new theory on the central mystery of
Hamlet’s irresolution; and Dr. Flatter,
while bringing Coleridge and the rest up
for another knock on the head, has not
a word about the only satisfactory solu-
tion ever put forward —Bradley’s.
Bradley’s theory is that Hamlet, nor-
mally a vigorous character, is “paralysed”
by the double shock of his father’s death
and his mother’s incestuous remarriage
and is thrown into the condition we call
a “nervous breakdown”; and this, besides
explaining at one hit both his degree of
madness and his inability to rouse him-
self to action, makes a framework into
which other theories—Goethe’s concep-
tion of a great deed laid upon a soul too
delicate to perform it; Coleridge’s pic-
ture of a man too wrapped up in thought
to descend to action —may be fitted as
revealing part of the truth.
Dr. Flatter’s theory is that Hamlet is
unable to act because the Ghost has laid
on Mm an impossible task; that of slay-
ing Claudius without upsetting the Queen.
Gertrude’s death changes the situation
immediately and fundamentally. The
moment she departs the invisible fetters
fall from her son’s hands: he is—at last!
—free to act. That insoluble task (revenge,
yet nothing against Gertrude) has suddenly
been reduced to the single task of dis-
patching the murderer. Now indeed the
whole business is most simple and easy:
it consists in nothing more than in run-
ning a rapier through the smiling villain —
and that Hamlet settles at once and most
efficiently.
Some of the conclusions to which Dr.
Flatter is forced in order to prove his
theory—that the Ghost is the principal
character; that his quiet return to hell
after the closet-scene proves that it is
“his” play and not Hamlet’s ; that Hamlet
shows “no lack of moral purpose”; that
the miraculous intervention of the pirate
ship is neither blind chance nor one of
those moments of inferior artistry which
T. S. Eliot finds in the play but is
“psychological; part of the emotional
network”—will undoubtedly force some-
one to write a book to answer Dr.
Flatter’s book point by point.
But it should be enough to recall that
the Ghost never tells Hamlet that he
must not distress his mother, only that he
must not do violence against her. Mag-
nanimous though the old phantom is, he
acquiesces in the fact that Gertrude must
suffer from
those thorns that in her bosom lodge
To prick and sting her,
and we may surely take it that both he
and Hamlet understand very well that
she is to bear such added thorns as may
spring from the killing of her paramour.
Dr. Flatter’s view that the Ghost’s
appearance in the closet-scene, just after
Hamlet has weakly refused to kill
Claudius at his prayers, is not intended
to spur Hamlet to the deed but to prevent
Gertrude from confessing her complicity
in the murder will be disputed not only
by the commentators but most firmly by
the Ghost;
Do not forget : this visitation
Is but to whet thy almost blunted purpose.
At best, we may say that this theory,
like so many others, may be fitted into
the general framework of Bradley’s ex-
planation, as revealing part of the truth ;
but only part ... a verdict which should
give some consolation to Dr. Johnson,
Coleridge, Goethe, ' Hazlitt, Chambers,
Dr. Duthie, Roderich Benedix, T. S. Eliot,
Dover Wilson, Granville-Barker and
Salvador Madariaga,
A Bishop Abroad.
On the Aorangi in December, 1948,
John S. Mioyes, Bishop of Armidale,
N. S. Wales, put the last words to his
account of his round-the-world trip and
his part in the Lambeth conference and
the Assembly of World Churches at
Amsterdam, In Journeyings Often
(Cumberledge).
The book is a pleasant mixture of
travels, theology, old and new acquaint-
ances, descriptions and statistics of the
plight of displaced citizens of Europe,
scenes at conferences, and clerical jokes,
such as that told him in Toronto about
a famous New York preacher he had met
at Amsterdam. A distracted lady got
him on the phone;
“I want your advice. I was an Anglican,
but I found myself unsatisfied, so I became
a Presbyterian. I was not at home there,
nor in the Baptist, either, so I became a
Christian Scientist, but now I wonder
should I not adopt New Thought.”
“My dear lady,” was the reply, “the
chemist at the drug-store tells me it does
not matter what label you put on an empty
bottle.”
The grim jest found serious echoes in
the minds of some visitors to Lambeth
when they considered '“nominal ad-
herents” who, “for tradition’s sake, or
even by superstition, seek certain rites and
sacraments of the church”:
“The legal position is attractive to some
minds. Let us refuse to baptise the
children of nominal Church people”
The bishops felt they could not .follow
this road. Love is larger than law. The
laity would not understand a sudden
clamping-down of discipline. It would not
win them, but rather repel them....
Bishop Moyes records and interprets
with little of his own comment. But now
and then he is startled, as with the de-
claration of Professor Karl Barth:
We ought to give up every thought that
the care of the Church, the care of the
world, is our care. For just this is the
root and ground of all human disorder,
the dreadful, godless, ridiculous opinion
that man is the Atlas who is destined to
bear the dome of Heaven on his shoulders.
As to Professor Barth’s explanation of
the absence from the Amsterdam assembly
of certain representatives —
Professor Barth declared that the very
absence of Roman Catholic and Russian
Orthodox delegates was the Act of God
—that is a species of exact-thinking
which. Bishop Moyes points out, is not
characteristic of Anglo-Saxon pulpits.
He omits nothing that might interest
Australians: a day at Brighton with
Bishop and Mrs. Crotty, well-remembered
in Newcastle (“I wondered why the
Church in England has not used more
his great gifts”); and Sunday evening
with Sir Philip and Lady Game at Ham
Common (“He was still lame from a
broken leg”); and he has a fine eye for
little incidents which bring big’ gatherings
to life, as in his picture of the Archbishop
of Sydney attending the opening service
of the Amsterdam Council with the con-
gregation, an usher having failed to de-
liver his robes; and of the bishop in
charge of an Amsterdam committee who
began feeling about his vestments, and
then asked, “Is there any bishop” (there
were two present) “or devout minister of
religion who has an English New
Testament I could borrow?”
After what seemed an age, a figure in
lay attire rose from the far doorway,
pressed through the narrow passageways
between our desks, and held out a book
to the puzzled bishop “Here is a New
Testament, sir. I’m a member of the
Press.”
In Canada he visited the Ontario
Museum, and the curator, Dr. Curelley,
told him the origin of the phrase “spick
and span,” and gave him a handbook on
Chinese art which he has contrived to
cram with all these other matters in his
little 150-page book. In New York, he
met Mr. John L. Lewis, anxious for in-
formation on Australian mining condi-
tions, who explained the American point
of view:
American labor, unlike English labor,
had no fear of mechanisation. They saw
that increased production would mean new
industries and finally more work. “And
so to-day,” he said, “we produce six tons
per man compared with England’s one ton
per man. We pay three times the wages
per man, and sell coal at one-third the
cost.”
The bishop has noted at the end of his
book the points which struck him at the
Council of Churches; they are worth
reading; they show the churches con-
sidering politics, and they summarise
much of the most recent thinking on
such matters:
“Communism,” said Dr. Emil Brunner,
“is the climax of Capitalism” To him
the outstanding process of this age has
been the process towards depersonalisa-
tion .... “The largest and most comprehen-
sive institution, and indeed the most im-
personal, is the State. In our time the
predominance of impersonal elements over
personal has become outrageous”
Neither Bishop Moyes nor Dr. Brunner
is looking at the State from the point of
view of our Liberals, but as churchmen ;
they feel that the individual is vanishing,
not with capitalism, nor private enter-
prise, but with the church. Whether the
church can bring itself and the individual
back again is another problem. At any
rate. Bishop Moyes makes the problem
easier to . see.
Fast's Friend.
Few of the public men whom America
throws up so profusely are more interest-
ing than those who push the practice of
their professions beyond moneymaking
into virtuosity: thus Lincoln Steffens, the
financial journalist, loved to demonstrate
his idea of how all great American cities
were run to the same pattern, by repre-
sentatives of moneyed interests working in
collaboration with underworld bosses;
and John Peter Altgeld, lawyer. Judge and
Governor of Illinois, subject of The
American by Howard Fast (Bodley
Head), was as much a virtuoso, in govern-
ment as he was a protagonist of the
common people.
Mr, Fast hurries through the early life
of this farmer’s son, brought from
Germany as an infant, beaten for pleasure
by his father, who became a bewildered
adolescent soldier in the Civil War, a
schoolteacher, a tramp and a pick-and-
shoveller on a transcontinental railway.
Then there is a big gap, and next we
are shown Judge Altgeld, in his forties,
meditating upon the hanging of four
Chicago labor organisers, and deciding to
be governor of Illinois. Then the book
sets out to show Altgeld exercising
gubernatorial virtuosity.
His first innovation was to carry out
an election promise to review sentences of
some labor organisers serving long terms
of imprisonment. There would have been
plenty of support, even from moneyed
sources, for freeing these men on grounds
of mercy ; but Altgeld chose to pardon
them with a document which denounced
their judge as prejudiced and their jury
as corrupt.
His next innovation was, as a member
of the Democratic party, to declare war
upon the Democratic President, Cleve-
land, who had sent Federal troops to
break a strike in a big Illinois factory.
Expert in the inexplicable methods of
United States ' politics, Altgeld swung
Democratic opinion his way, but, having
been bom in Germany, he could not be
nominated for the Presidency himself,
and substituted an erect old Congressman
called Bland. But the young orator
William Jennings Bryan stole Altgeld’s
“Silver-standard” platform in his cele-
brated “cross-of-gold” speech, and with
it the Presidential nomination. Bryan, in
Mr. Fast’s version, seems to have been
valueless enough mentally to justify
Mencken’s obituary on him, about the
most savage oration ever given on a man
just dead—and, at any rate, Bryan lost
the Presidency to the Republican Mc-
Kinley, and Altgeld was voted out of the
governorship of Illinois.
Altgeld later stood as independent
candidate for Mayor of Chicago, and
was easily beaten by both party machines.
He died poor, having appeared that day
as counsel for a union, collapsing at an
evening meeting to protest against the
Boer War, his last words on the platform
being, according to Mr. Fast, “Wrong
may seem to triumph. Right may seem
to be defeated ...”
Indeed, the failures of such men are
their successes; they show how far in-
dividual integrity can go in a battle which
can never be won because, as Heming-
way pointed out in To Have and Have
Not, “No matter how, a man alone ain’t
got no bloody chance” —and the champion
of democratic individualism can hardly
fight other than alone. The virtuosity of
Altgeld’s performance is not lessened by
the fact that for most of his governorship
he was dying of locomotor ataxia.
Secrets of Dowsing.
A. A. Cook’s The Natural Science of
the Divining Rod (William Brooks and
Co. Pty., Ltd., Brisbane) contains a fore-
word by V. A. Cook, A. Atherton Cook
and Thomas A. Cook—which is a lot of
Cooks, but not enough to spoil a very
remarkable broth. Mr. A. A. Cook,
who was “released from the physical
body” in 1948, was a dowser or water-
diviner.
He claimed to be able to discover not
only underground water but all sorts of
minerals; also, by means of his “radial
indicator,” to track wild animals ; and,
provided he was given some object to
put him, as it were, on the scent, to point
out on a map the whereabouts of persons
overseas.
The idea behind it all, which is ex-
plained in a semi-scientific terminology,
with references to some august author-
ities, is that every object on this peculiar
earth we inhabit emits or projects its
own “wave-length,” and, provided one
is naturally sensitive to such in-
fluences and is properly equipped with
the radial detector and two sets of
primary-color “tuners,” made of strips
of red, orange, yellow, green, blue, in-
digo and violet cloth, it is apparently
possible to fly to any concealed object
much as an aeroplane flies on the beam.
These “tuners” are to be worn one
placed before the right hip at the waist,
and one in the left-hand breast pocket.
It is also important that one should be
free from “personal disadvantages” such
as “scars from old wounds (appendix-
operation scar for instance), broken
bones, left eye blind, gold or amalgam
filling in the teeth, false-teeth plate,
colors and metals carried -on the body.”
Tuned and equipped in this way, the
reader follows Mr. Gook into strange
o Continued on inside back cover.)


•TRUTH MIN ADVERTISING'*
Anthony horderns
.1;
1
62/
Si'
p
m
&
m
M
u
Vv
H
' ■■ v
m
■
■
■
.
I :
H
■ r;.
U
M
mm
i
I*
iSi
49/6
• i*
43'
m
Elastic Riding Boots made on good fitting last. With welted
soles, these boots are priced at 45/6 pair. Super grade
boots, made by expert craftsmen, priced at 55/9 pair.
ft m
AAI
y
Brownhills super grade Shoes made in finest grade Tan Zebu
by expert craftsmen. On neat, extended last, these
shoes have good fitting. Full and half sizes, 62/- pair.
8$
Doctopedic Shoes fitted with metalarsal arch supports, are de-
signed to give your foot perfect support and comfort.
In Tan/Black Calf, price, 49/6; Black Kid, price, 52/6
y-Or
m
Bowling Shoes in Tan Calf with flex. Red rubber soles and
wedge heels. Guaranteed to give maximum comfort
and wear. In full and half sizes, priced at 43/- pair.
43/
MEN’S SHOES GROUND FLOOR, GEORGE STREET. TELEPHONE;
M 2401;
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0.,


FIVE
Sound Reasons
why every UNIONIST
should vote LIBERAL
on December 10
4 The Liberal Party stands far rank-and-file control of Union affairs through the secret
" ballot.
2 The Liberal Party has a workable plan for destroying Communist influence inside and
outside the Unions.
0 The Liberal Party advocates incentive payment systems with complete safeguards
against exploitation.
M The Liberal Party has a practical plan for increasing the purchasing power of wages
" ... for reducing the cost of living.
C The Liberal Party believes that your Union has a duty to protect your wages and
conditions without dictating your politics.
THE LIBERAL PARTY IS OPPOSED TO CONSCRIPTION OF LABOR. CONSCRIPTION OF
LABOR MUST RESULT IF INDUSTRY IS SOCIALISED.
Unionists will get a BETTER DEAL under
LIBERAL GOVERNMENT
Authorised by D. M. Cleland, 30 Ash St.,
49 ——————■


The Bulletin
Viol. 70—No. 3637
Wednesday, October 26, 1949
GAS-DRIVE IN.
“No petrol, mister, but you can have plenty of free air.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ‘Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand; Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
WHERE DOES IT GET YOU?
It has been the policy of the “Labor”
Socialists over a period much longer than
their present term of Federal office to
sell the people a policy based on material
self-interest, salted and peppered with
sprinklings of envy and class-friction.
Socialist materialism, as presented to the
voters, has usually been expressed in
terms of higher money-wages, shorter
working time, more leisure, “full employ-
ment” and greater “social security.” And
there is no doubt that these economic
lures have proved speciously attractive to
the wage-earning section of the com-
munity, as well as to those who directly
depend on the spendings of wage-earners
for their income but who themselves
don’t have the problems associated with
the employment of present-day labor.
A better standard of living is what
nearly every self-respecting section of the
community seeks. It is an entirely laud-
able objective. But mere materialism,
mere selfishness and self-seeking do not
provide it automatically. Yet “Labor”
Socialism has preached for years that it
is all just a matter of putting the right
brand of Government into power. Put a
Socialist Government into power, “Labor”
says, and the hated capitalist will be effec-
tively dealt with and the national income
redistributed in a way that will give “the
worker” a higher income and permanent
economic security.
Well, the “Labor” Socialists in Aus-
tralia have had just over eight years of
office, four of those years in the post-war
period, and so far the community has
seen little but a mirage of paper-money
“prosperity” accompanied by a produc-
tion depression, Mr. Chifley’s “Golden
Age,” in short. The national income has
expanded only in terms of depreciated
paper money. Our actual production of
essential materials is, in the main, lower
than before the war, and in almost every
case considerably lower per man em-
ployed. That is notwithstanding a run
of most bountiful seasons and the attrac-
tion of record overseas prices for our
exports.
The “full employment” about which
“Labor” has been so fond of boasting
has been of a superficial nature only. It
has brought no corresponding industrial
expansion—no commensurate production
of the capital goods or the consumer
goods on which the standard of living of
the community depends. Labor, as
directed by the Socialists, has not given a
fair day’s work for fair pay. And this
condition of affairs is one that jeopardises
all those things which the Socialist
theorists and sophists held out as bait to
the electors. The buying-power of sav-
ings is constantly being eaten away by
inflation that arises directly from “Labor”
political, economic and industrial policy.
Costs are rising daily and threatening not
only industrial and financial security, but
also that “social security” of which such
a mouthful has been made by the Can-
berra Socialists.
This Socialism —where does it get you
in the end? A current saying is that even-
tually it takes your name away and leaves
you with nothing but a number.
Maybe. That position has not quite yet
arisen. But the observant can already see
this much: that Socialism, and all the
economic plans of the Canberra planners,
have given no more than a wider spread
of the country’s reduced production, have
eaten up past savings, have given us a
process of inflation that grows continu-
ously in its momentum, have taken away
the incentives to produce and with them
the volume of production, and have im-
posed heavy taxation on all the com-
munity, only a section getting back, in
the Government’s “bounty,” as much re-
turn as they have paid in, such being the
waste and loss in buying-power of money
that accompanies this “redistribution” of
“wealth” and incomes.
The prospect before Australians today
is one of growing industrial difficulty—
a result both of Socialist inflation and
Communist lawlessness rising living
costs, loss of value in savings, life-
assurance values and Government bonds,
and, eventually, ungovernable inflation
that may produce economic breakdown
and widespread social confusion. We
have become, industrially, very vulner-
able to the effects of any world depres-
sion.
The Socialists have failed disastrously
as administrators. They, from Mr. Chifley
downwards, are in the grip of the vested
interests of militant trade-unionists,
whom, for many reasons, they dare not
attempt to discipline or call upon to obey
the law. And the Government itself has
too many larrikin Ministers to take seri-
ously the responsibilities of office.
These responsibilities have grown
greatly with the powers assumed, within
the Constitution and outside of it, by
“Labor.” In adopting its socialisation
policy, with all the powers that are implied
under such a plan, the present Federal
Government should automatically have
accepted the responsibility that goes with
such greater powers. What has been taken
from the individual and from private
enterprise should have been immediately
replaced by a similar responsibility in
high places in the Government and in the
vastly-increased civil service. Instead, the
powers taken over by Canberra “Labor”
have been regarded more as spoils of
office than a sober responsibility to
administer the affairs of the people
according to the highest standards set by
the Socialist theorist. The fleet of
Ministerial Chrysler cars, followed after
a couple of years or so by an array of
luxurious Buicks,.is only one illustration
of the Socialists’ preoccupation with their
own personal welfare.. And the New
Guinea timber scandals are but one
example of their Ministerial laxity.
Without a vast improvement in the
standard of the Socialist administration
—or a change of Government —the
prospect ahead of us is chaotic.
Prudent self-interest in private enter-
prise used to encourage diligent work,
economy in management, low costs,
a giving to the public what it re-
quired in the way of production,
and the building-up of real productive
resources out of savings ploughed back
into industry. Under the Canberra
“Labor” administration a huge proportion
of the national income has been diverted
to the Government by way of taxation,
and much of it has been spent wantonly
and wastefully ; banking policy is bent to
suit the aims of Socialism; and produc-
tion is at the mercy of the Labor unions,
which are protected from the retribution
they deserve by the Government
they keep in power. Nowhere within the
Chifley Government is there a display of
determination to maintain essential pro-
duction and show all engaged in it the
extent of that determination. Nowhere
is there any real regard for thrift, or
acknowledgment of the value which past
thrift has been in keeping us afloat indus-
trially and financially up to the present
time. Nowhere, in short, is there evidence
of a straightforward, honest plan to do
the firings that obviously need doing
whether this country is to function as a
Chifley-Evatt Socialist Republic or a
British democracy.
The Chifley Socialists are cunning, in-
sincere. They are incompetent adminis-
trators, full of envies, prejudices
and ambitions, but without the ability
or integrity of those they are bent
on economically and politically killing-
off. Their spurious “prosperity” was
further emphasised by last week’s
rise in the basic wage, which brought
the capital-cities average up to 1295.,
against 795. in 1939 and 965. in August,
1945. The later, inflated figure will
buy less for the wage-earner than the
lower payment of 10 years earlier. And
the cost of Jiving immediately gets an-
other upward kick as a result of last
week’s rise. Where —the intelligent citizen
surely must ask himself —where does all
this Socialist jiggery-pokery get you in
the end?
The Petrol Scandal.
The mess over the petrol shortage
furnishes its own commentary upon the
incapacity and underhand methods of the
Chifley Socialists.
Discussion has been gagged twice in
the House, and Ministers have not been
able to agree on their excuses. The
Minister for Defence, who sits on a
50-million-gallon reserve, dismisses as
absurd any possibility of war in five
years or 10, or at all. When the Prime
Minister says that the oil companies
have brought about the scarcity by
increasing their sales to the extent of re-
ducing stocks “to the very lowest level
which can be permitted,” he is followed
by the Minister for Shipping and Fuel,
who suggests that petrol is being withheld
from the public by the oil companies for
higher prices. And so on.
When a 30 per cent, devaluation of the
Chifley pound-note against the dollar was
announced in September, a Government
spokesman at Canberra told the Press
that the consequential overall increase in
the cost of petrol should not be more
than a penny a gallon (or 3 per cent.),
although one-third of Australian petrol
imports had to be paid for in dollars at
the new rate. The importing companies,
which previously had been seeking 2d. a
gallon extra for increased distributing
costs, have since said that devaluation
must add another 4£d. or sd. to the retail
price. The biggest profiteer on petrol on
the Australian market is still the/Chifley
Government, which exacts from the con-
sumer lOd.-a-gallon duty plus 10 per cent,
primage on importers’ cost price. To-
gether these levies are supposed to amount
to about lid. If, as Mr. Chifley has ad-
mitted, every penny levied in duty re-
turns £2 million in taxation, the Govern-
ment must get about £22 million in this
way annually, all of which goes on to
the cost of goods and services.
Last year petrol imports were some
404,500,000 gallons. Mr. Chifley first said
he would permit imports of only three-
quarters of that quantity this year, be-
cause he and his brother-Socialists in
Britain can’t earn the dollars to pay for
more. Now he says he won’t reduce
dollar imports this year because that
would be too sudden. He also says that
after November 15 rationing will be re-
stored on the same individual allocations
as last year, although more users are
licensed, and “stocks are exhausted.”
The blackmarket is growing bigger and
greedier. Since it became apparent two
interesting items in the Sydney Press have
been (1) in the “Sunday Herald” report-
ing that Commonwealth investigation
officials are trying to uncover a racketeer-
ing gang’s operations, including the sus-
pected theft of “large stocks from
R.A.A.F. and military establishments,”
and (2) four days earlier, recording a big
fire in the R.A.A.F. supply depot at
Regents Park, Sydney, in which “the
headquarters records branch was de-
stroyed,”
In face of Ministers’ refusal of informa-
tion, reasonable assumptions are that —
The Chifley Government desires rationing
of petrol for its own sake as a socialistic
measure: it does not want petrol so much
as petrol-control.
If Sydney N.R.M.A. officials have war-
rant for their statement that the Govern-
ment could wipe out rationing by importing
another 54 million gallons a year, then the
same effect would be produced for this
critical period by releasing part of the
50-million-gallon defence reserve when
there is “no war in sight for ten years.”
If the government is not deliberately
withholding petrol, then the explanation
must be that Socialist Governments are
constitutionally incompetent, for the only
three countries in the world suffering from
petrol shortage are Socialist-run Australia,
U.K., and N.Z.
Other matters Ministers will not explain
are how much petrol was used to maintain
skeleton industry and services during the
seven weeks’ coal strike; whether what
Ministers condemn as the “hoarding” of
petrol stocked for essential needs by
farmers and pastoralists was not caused
primarily by the Government’s culpable
dilatoriness in combating the coal strike ;
and what part Communist influence in the
“Labor” party plays in the official re-
strictions of petrol consumption at a very
time when another extensive and drastic
coal shortage is certain to arrive im-
mediately after the elections when the
miners begin their extended year-end
holidays.
This is a petrol age. Already supplies
of coal, milk, bricks and timber, together
with a vast complexity of metropolitan
and rural road services, are being
brought to a halt by the petrol short-
age. Because the Socialist Governments
can’t get coal, factories in every Aus-
tralian city and many large towns have
been encouraged to instal their own
auxiliary power-plants —run on petrol or
fuel oil —to keep the wheels turning. This
is a juncture, too, at which Mr. Chifley
is appealing to the nation as a whole to
speed up production. He is about to go to
the elections asking for confidence that he
is the man who can boost Australian
progress. And what has he done to-
wards it?
He is, for 39 weeks of the 48 which
make up the miners’ year, 2,673,000 million
tons down on potential coal output, nearly
twice as much as this time last year.
He tried to cut petrol imports by 25 per
cent., but has had to drop that idea.
He has boasted of having given the
workers “more leisure,” and now tells them
to enjoy their extra leisure without petrol.
He has added to the cost of petrol and
everything else by devaluing the currency
against dollars, and he refuses to abate
his Customs slug on every gallon of petrol
used, despite the enormous burden his
taxation means on overhead charges in all
industry and services.
That is Socialism in practice. That is
the revenge taken by a control-crazed
Government for the popular refusal at the
prices referendum to tolerate permanent
central control at Canberra of all prices,
without which power “Labor,” as one of
the Chifley Ministers has admitted,
“cannot function.”
After Sharkey, What?
The sentence of three years’ hard labor
passed by Dwyer, J., on L. L. Sharkey,
general secretary and head of the Aus-
tralian Communist party, must have come
as a shock both to the party and to a
large section of the “Labor Movement.”
Under “Labor” anybody, so long as he
happened to be a Communist, has been
able to get away with almost anything—
even with a wanton strike like that which
cost the community an astronomical sum
last winter, and which was designed
purely for disruptive purposes and as a
revolutionary measure to help soften-up
“the system.”
It was sworn at the Australia First
inquiry by Captain Blood, of Intelligence,
that as soon as Dr. Evatt assumed office
as Attorney-General orders were given
that no further Communists should be
prosecuted without personal reference to
him. Dr. Evatt denied that there was any
such order “on the file” ; but the fact is
indisputable that one of his first acts was
to release two officials of the party who
were interned after conviction for crimes
worse than those of Sharkey himself. It
is equally indisputable 'that once the
“Labor” Government was in the saddle in
Canberra all pending prosecutions against
Communists were withdrawn, and no
further prosecutions against Communists
were launched until this year.
Sharkey was convicted of uttering to a
newspaper reporter the following state-
ment :
If Soviet forces in pursuit of aggressors
entered Australia, workers would welcome
them. The Communist party wants to bring
the working-class to power, but if the
Fascists in Australia use force to prevent
the workers gaining power, the Com-
munists will advise the workers to meet
force with force.
To the student of Australian Communism
there is nothing novel in this. It is merely
an explanation of a point of policy which
has been accepted by the Communist
party of Australia since 1921. In that
year it applied for membership of the
Comintern. As a preliminary, it was
asked to accede to 21 points of policy.
It accepted them, including one which
called upon it to “give unqualified sup-
port” to all Soviet Republics engaged in
fighting-off capitalists. It accepted this
undertaking:
4. A systematic and vigorous propaganda
must be carried on in the Army. Com-
munist nuclei must be formed in every
military unit. Most of the work will be
illegal, but to refuse to do it would be
treason to revolutionary duty and incom-
patible with membership of the Third
Internationale.
Eight years later, when the local leaders
of the party attempted to break away
from Russian methods and become the
Titos of Australia, Sharkey appealed to
Moscow oyer their heads, had them
severely censured, and was himself, with
J. B. Miles, pushed by the Kremlin into
the leadership of the movement in Aus-
tralia. He became a member of the
executive of the Comintern, and has twice
visited Moscow.
One item in the thesis which contained
the orders of Moscow to the servile Aus-
tralian section of the Comintern read;—
(4) The defence of the U.S.S.R. is the
self-defence of the workers of the whole
world.
With this end in view the local branches
of the R.I.L.U. were ordered “to trans-
form every works and every factory into
a fortress of revolution.” To which was
added this, which Sharkey himself set out:
The Congress [in Moscow] gave direc-
tions for the politicalisation of strikes. The
solidarity strike is the most important
starting-point for developing individual
struggles into the purposeful struggle of
class against class Every factory must
become a fortress. Thus Congress placed
in the forefront of its programme the
defence of the U.S.S.R., the Workers’
Fatherland
There is obviously now a wide difference
of opinion between much of the rank-and-
file of Labor and the pseudo-“ Labor”
leaders both as to what Communism
represents and how it should be dealt with.
To Mr. Chifley the Communist party
has been “a political organisation carry-
ing on its activities in a perfectly legal
way.” To Mr. Holloway, Minister for
Labor and Industry, the Ministerial em-
ployer of Mr. Sharkey’s predecessor in
the headship of the party (Mr. J. &
Garden), “the aim of the Communist
movement throughout the world is based
on the teachings of Christ.” Mr. Ded-
man. Minister for Defence, with whom
it is a fetish that Australia’s safety de-
pends entirely on push-button science, sees
nothing wrong in employing in the
C.5.1.R.0., the chief agency of the
country’s scientific defence, a former
Communist official who was pointed
in file dock by Crown counsel as “the
Fifth-column,” who was sentenced in war-
time for espionage.
Mr. Ward, of course, has shown him-
self of the same kidney as his fellow-
Ministers, and only a few weeks ago,
while Sharkey was awaiting sentence
(“Hansard,” September .15, 1949, p. 292),


uttered the remark that he did “not share
the opinion of some honorable members
that there is a real menace of Communism
in this country.” Mr. Ward has been an
open admirer of the Soviet over a long
period.
The Ministry as a whole has no policy.
Its members say whatever suits the
moment. But in plain fact, if the Gov-
ernment wished to deal with the Com-
munists seriously, it could frame a con-
structive case against the whole party
without much difficulty.
Mr. Sharkey is to remain in jail. He
is finished with the Communist party,
since Moscow never forgives a failure,
and is never loyal to a friend in distress
unless it can use him for propaganda
purposes. His conviction should prove to
the Government that it is worth while
trying to deal with the rest of the move-
ment. There is a variety of evidence to
support a charge of seditious conspiracy
if it is searched for competently. But the
“Labor” Government will not search be-
cause it knows that if it did the trail
would lead the bloodhounds right into
the heart of the unions which provide
“Labor” with its lifeblood ; into the very
heart, indeed, of the so-called “Labor
Movement”
PLAIN ENGLISH
The People v. the Senate.
The word “democracy” comes often to
the lips of Federal Ministers —almost as
often as the word “mandate.” The
essence of “democracy,” as understood by
them, would appear to be that once Mr.
Chifley has a “mandate” from the electors,
no matter how vague, he has acquired a
licence which is unchallengeable.
It has, for instance, been inferred that
because he felt he had a mandate to
enforce the 1945 banking legislation any
attempt to challenge it by the banks
would have been about as immoral as
barratry or mayhem, and would have
justified any extreme steps which he
might take to nationalise the banks.
Nobody has so far pointed out that a
mandate, even a specific one, is no shield
against illegality. Actually, if the banks
or any bank had felt that the 1945
Act was illegal in a way that
mattered it would have been not merely
their right but their duty to challenge the
legislation if it affected the interests of
their shareholders or depositors.
In plain truth all Mr, Chifley’s talk
about mandates and their validity is
humbug. Mr. Calwell has given the show
away. On September 28 in Parliament
he said (“Hansard,” p. 694);
The Banking Act, 1945, is on the statute-
book, and it will not be removed by a vote
of the people of Australia. No legislation
to provide such a retrograde step will ever
pass the Senate.
This can have only one meaning. It must
mean that if Mr, Menzies were to go to
the country and get a mandate to submit
banking legislation to a referendum the
“Labor” majority in the gerrymandered
Senate—which the A.L.P. platform says
must be abolished as a useless excrescence
—will prevent the mandate being carried
out at any cost.
It is clear that in Federal “Labor”
circles mandates are only valid when they
are given in favor of “Labor.” In other
words, all the talk about “mandates” and
“democracy” has been utter sham.
Pollard's Head in a Bag.
“Labor” has begun to woo the farmer
for all it’s worth, and the head and front
of its campaign is that eminent agricul-
turist Reginald T. (“Marie Antoinette”!
Pollard, Minister for Commerce and Agri-
culture, M.H.R, for Ballarat (until De-
cember 10 at least). Mr, Pollard has an-
nounced a payment of some £6O million
to woolgrowers out of war-time and Joint
Organisation wool profits, and he fre-
quently announces payment out of this or
that wheat pool, the latest being the No.
11 pool (1947-48 wheat), with further pay-
ments for “the small quantity of low-
grade grain” in No. 11 (A) pool.
This, says he, will amount to £6.5 mil-
lion and bring payments from that pool
to £126 million, there having been 203
million bushels in it and the cash re-
ceipts totalling £l5O million on a bulk
basis, Mr. Pollard made a great fuss
about this; he made no fuss at all about
ordering fertiliser firms to cut down the
three-bushel fertiliser bag to a two-
bushel bag. By some strange reasoning
he claimed that this would save 60001 b.
of jute a year, though everybody else
believes it will take more jute to do it.
If bag-sizes can be decreed, why not
cases, bottles —anything upon which the
Ministerial eye falls? Of course, it was
some union boss or other who ordered the
change, but it shows what’s in store for
us in the “Labor” future.
Mr. Pollard and his leader, faithfully
echoed by their heelers in the Parliament,
have been assuring the farmers that they
were never better off than under this Labor
Government. The claim is obviously in-
spired by the fact that prices for export
products were never higher; under de-
valuation even more paper money will
come in. But there’s something wrong
with Mr. Pollard and his 17 boards and
committees if he imagines that high prices
can outweigh inflation, labor shortages,
non-supply of materials, the petrol
muddle, and this latest arrogant foolish-
ness, The Pollard head has become as
inflated as the “Labor” economy—it
ought to be bagged on Dec. 10, even if
it takes a three-bushel bag to hold it,
" 'Labor' Prosperity" in U.K.
A month ago the British Socialist
Government, through its Chancellor
Cripps, agreed in Washington to devalue
the pound sterling against the dollar. In
short time the already battered Australian
pound-note was by Chifley duly cut in
proportion.
Cripps explained to a nation already
sullen with disillusionment that they had
now “a better chance to emerge from
their difficulties,” that it had been “a
choice between devaluing the pound and
devaluing the worker”; and that “every-
thing now depends on whether the
country took the right action,”
Four idle weeks went by after the
decision was made —four vital weeks in
which the chief concern of Cripps’s party
and Government was whether it had or
had not cut its political throat. “The
country,” canvassing what “the right
action” might be, quickly heard that the
unions would not tolerate a longer work-
ing week without wage-rises, deduced
that the Socialist Government hadn’t
really any plan prepared, and looked for
a general election. There could have
been no clearer sign that the Govern-
ment had lost the electors’ confidence,
the trade-unions’ confidence, and (judg-
ing by the tone of all reports from
abroad) any confidence felt in it by
European countries tied up with the U.K,
in the European Recovery Plan.
Britain last week was not only
faced with economic bankruptcy but also
political bankruptcy. “The great experi-
ment” of Socialism was revealed as no
more than a stupid and costly ramp run
by a crowd which could not guarantee
any undertaking it devised to get out of
its mess. If it would not have an im-
mediate general election and submit itself
to the judgment of the people—and Mr.
Attlee said he would not take that course
—the Government had to bring down at
once a scheme to cut its extravagant
“social” expenditure in every direction,
allow prices to rise, clamp down against
rises in wages, and introduce even greater
“austerity” (euphemism for plain famine)
than ever before. In short, “the worker,”
his standard of living, his social security,
his confidence in national recovery, even
the nation’s defences —all are being “de-
valued” along with the Cripps pound-
note. !
If Australians vote again for Mr. Chifley
on December 10 they will be asking for
the same fate. What has Chifley, with
his socialisation programme, been trying
to do that Cripps has not done already?,!
What could Chifley do to avert the con-
sequences that Cripps cannot do now?
Why doesn’t Chifley tell Cripps his
recipe for “prosperity under ‘Labor’ ”?
■■ o
A Wise Princess.
As refreshing as the falling of gentle
rain on a hot and dusty landscape
came the words of Princess Elizabeth
last week. “Even if we make allowances
for the rosy hue in which the passage
of the years sometimes colors the past,
we can hardly help admitting that we live
in an age of growing self-indulgence, of
hardening materialism, and of falling
moral standards.”
Were the Princess an old and crabbed-
woman her words might be dismissed as
the carping of the aged. But in addition
to being the heir to the British throne,
she is young, married, and a mother.
She was talking to the British Mothers’ j
Union on divorce and the sad effect of
broken homes on children, and was
doubtless inspired by her realisation that
both are* often effects of the materialism
and sick morality she condemns.
She put her finger on an all-too-com-
man human failing of these times:— ,
I believe there is a great fear in our
generation of being labelled as priggish.
In consequence, people are sometimes
afraid to show disapproval of what they
know to be wrong, and thus they end by
seeming to condone what in their hearts
they dislike.
1 am sure that it is just as wrong to
err on that side as it is to be intolerant
and over-critical.
The “fear of being labelled priggish”
is not what keeps our political leaders
silent. Where they don’t actually cater
to materialism (in the form of State lot-
teries, more money for less work, “free”
benefits and so forth) or encourage im-
morality, both in politics and outside
them, thpy are silent.
Whatever the cause, or on whomsoever
lies the blame, we have raised up to
power apostles of materialism in its worst
form, and it is because they are such
apostles that there is small place in their
hearts for the true morality.
What can be done about it? The Prin-
cess asked the 3600 young women who
came from all over the British Isles to
listen to her to “give a lead in the re-
establishment of a wise and well-balanced
code of right and wrong.” Those who
were not there can do the same and
render a similar all-important national
service.
READIED-UP ENTRY FOR THE CANBERRA CUP (Dec. 10).


6661 E-R
CRAVEN "A"
Their quality and smoothness
is unmistakable
mack specially 1b
pieverttsoietfaoak
CARRERAS LIMITED OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY:
I ] - , -- - - 1 ' ‘ " "" -"■ ■
£
POLITICAL POINTS
Today the Privy Council will publish
its reasons for dismissing Evatt’s appeal
in the banking case. Chifley and the Doc
will no doubt announce that their
“experts” are examining the findings, and
that a statement on Government policy
will be given in due course. Much as
they would like to they cannot postpone
any longer a clear statement of their in-
tentions. The electors are entitled to
know just where the Socialists stand on
this matter, which, despite “Labor” dis-
claimers, is still the most vital single issue
of the elections.
Evatt’s answers to Spender’s charges—
which Ministers gagged in the House —
Were not denials and were entirely
unconvincing. On the allegation that
“Labor” intended to “pack” the
High Court, Evatt said that “had
not been considered,” which on past
revelations by party members rings
quite false, and anyway is no denial. On
the charge that the Government intended
to abolish appeals to the Privy Council,
Evatt said that also had “never been
considered.” It is written in black-and-
white in the “Labor” party’s objective, to
which Evatt is personally pledged.
Canada does not allow appeals to the
Privy Council. For years Australian
“Labor” leaders have been talking of
taking the same stand, but when the
High Court knocked back the Bank Grab
they apparently decided to pocket their
pride—or their principles, or whatever it
is that determines such issues—and try
their luck with the Law Lords. It was out,
and the question now is whether Privy
Council appeals are out, too. Perhaps
their Lordships will be given one last
chance to justify themselves in “Labor”
eyes—an appeal on Free Medicine.
Menzies pointed out last week, as The
Bulletin did a year ago, that if the
defence powers can be invoked to justify
Federal control of the Snowy River
scheme they can be used to support the
nationalisation of the steel industry and
any other remotely connected with de-
fence, The importance of harnessing the
waters of the Snowy Mountains country
has long been recognised by farsighted
Australians, and the project is one which
will ultimately be of great benefit to the
nation; but its value for defence in the
immediately foreseeable future is conjec-
tural, to say the least. The Liberal leader
implied that his party would, if it came
to power in December, alter the set-up so
that the Snowy scheme could not be used
as a precedent for further attempts to get
around the Constitution.
Early this year the defence powers were
also used to make a bird of “Labor's”
Shipping and Shipbuilding Act, The
tactics on that occasion left little room
for doubt as to the opportunism of the
subterfuge; the defence story was tacked
on to the objects of the bill by special
amendment introduced during the second
reading. No attempt has been made by
shipping companies to challenge the con-
stitutionality of that Act —an omission
they may well regret if “Labor” wins the
election.
’ Sydney “Standard,” official organ of
the A.L.P., complains that the Press “cut
to the barest bone” the speech of G.-G.
McKell at the Adaminaby shivoo, saying
that “probably never before has the
King’s representative been given such
short shrift at a truly national gathering.”
Come to think of it, never before have
we had a King’s representative whose
appointment outraged the feelings of so
large a proportion of the King’s subjects.
After trying desperately but unsuccess-
fully to get back into the good-books of
the party Czars and thus on to the list of
selected “Labor” candidates, Maxie
Falstein has decided to buck the machine
and stand for Watson as an Independent.
His erstwhile colleagues are arguing over
the nice point whether he should be ex-
pelled or whether he has automatically
expelled himself. Declared politically
dead, Maxie refuses to lie down.
Lang, after carrying his party banner
unaided and alone for three years, has
high hopes of bringing a few followers
into the next Parliament. The Big Fella
is gambling on an evenly divided House
in which his crystal-ball tells him his
group will hold the balance of power.
Perhaps Maxie is counting on holding the
balance of power between Chifley and
Lang.
The “Labor” boys had a great deal to
say'about the alleged failure of a com-
pany to buy Polish petrol. This is the
N.R.M.A. version: On August 22 import-
licence for the petrol was applied for;
three days later an answer to the applica-
tion was sought; six days later the Con-
troller of Customs was asked for a de-
cision ; two days later the importer’s
London agent urged haste, as “offer could
not be extended any longer”; same day
the company telephoned Mr, Chifley;
four days later he wired approval of
application ; next day London agent said
Polish vendors had sold the cargo else-
where because of delay.
Chifley is letting Australian industry
run to a standstill while he hoards 50
million gallons of petrol for war emer-
gency. In the event of war the easiest
thing to procure would be 50 million
gallons of petrol. But Chifley could not
find his fighting services for war-lie
isn’t raising any army for war emergency,
and scoffs at the idea.
Even Melbourne “Age,” Chifley’s
original and warmest supporter on petrol-
rationing, last week demanded that he
should come clean and let the truth be
told “wherever it might lead.”
According to Calwell the coming elec-
tion campaign is to be one of the dirtiest
ever fought in Australia. Well, anyone
who stops mud Arthur throws won’t be
able to say he wasn’t warned.
Defending the money spent on news-
paper advertisements during the coal
strike, Leslie Haylen said “the propaganda
battle had to be won before the men went
back to work.” That is to say, after
nearly eight years in office the “Labor”
Government felt so little confident of its
grip on the rank-and-file of the move-
ment that it had to spend vast sums of
public money to convince them that it
was taking the right course. The truth
is that the course it took was utterly
opposed to everything it had preached
to the rank-and-file for years. The tax-
payers had to pay the cost of “Labor”
leaders swallowing their own words.
According to Haylen the money was
magnificently well spent. There’s no
doubt about that. If there’s one thing
“Labor” can do it is spend money magni-
ficently.
When Communist president Dixon
brought back from Czechoslovakia a
batch of gramophone records they were
retained by the Customs, but later re-
leased, it being decided that they were all
“of a musical character.” It’s a certainty
they would play the Moscow tune.
In a talk to employees at Ipswich rail-
way workshops R. G. Casey said that his
party wanted to see every worker own his
own home. That is an objective with
which no sane Australian would disagree.
A notable exception, of course, is Mis-
construction Minister Dedman, whose
dreams are haunted by visions of millions
and millions of little capeetalists.
If the National University at Canberra
has a vacant Chair of Mathematics
Commerce Minister Pollard should have
the seat of his pants measured for it. In
support of his proposed reduction in the
size of superphosphate sacks from three-
to two-bushel capacity he claimed that the
change would mean a saving of 60001 b.
of jute a year. The statement brought a
comment from Professor Kerr Grant,
who told the Adelaide “Advertiser” that
it
would seem to conflict with a mathematical
law which affirms that the surface-area of
any object is inevitably increased by break-
ing it into two parts. In the case in
question, where three bags would be re-
quired to take the place of two, this
increase would amount to about 15 per
cent.
If Pollard has discovered a new
mathematical law or disproved the old
one he deserves that chair, even if it has
to be enlarged to fit him.
Latest exposition of “Labor’s” attitude
on socialisation is from R. R. Broadby,
new secretary of the A.C.T.U. and Vic-
torian president of the A.L.P.:
Mr. Fadden says “Labor” is split on
interpretation of its policy. Mr. Fadden
is placing his own interpretation on
“Labor’s” policy in a desperate attempt
to appeal to the fears of Australians.
“Labor” knows where it is going.
If the electors have any sense they’ll let
“Labor” go there alone.
Premier Hanlon is winging to London
next month to see if the Attlee-Cripps
crowd will undertake to buy £2B million-
worth of Queensland sugar a year. He'll
have to hold off efforts to increase West
Indian shipments to Britain, and maintains
that the “fate of the Queensland sugar in-
dustry depends on this conference.” Or
the fate of the Hanlon Government?
There was consternation among
“Labor” Ministers early this month when
they read that Britain’s Food Minister
John Strachey had referred to the Truman
Government as “the second most pro-
gressive in the world.” Suggestions
alleged to have been offered ranged from
a demand on Attlee for Strachey’s resig-
nation to a threat to give the next English
Test team a dictation-test in Arunta. The
situation was saved by a drink-waiter
who pointed out that Strachey had not
specified which Government he placed
first on the list. As Ministers had no
doubt which Government was the most
progressive in the world it was
unanimously decided that Strachey had
been paying them a well-deserved if
roundabout compliment. Subtle feller,
Strachey—or the drink-waiter.
Bruce Pie, Liberal member for Windsor
in the Queensland Assembly, has an-
nounced that he will probably stand for
the Kedron seat next year—a tough pro-
position —rather than one of the “safe”
Liberal seats adjoining it. He argues that
Kedron can be won for his party by a
candidate well-known in the district and
gives himself a fifty-fifty chance. The
Federal parties probably wish a few of
their members saw things in the same
light. On both sides of the House sitting
members have taken care to grab the
safe seats under redistribution, leaving
the doubtfuls to the newcomers. This
human failing could well be a deciding
factor on December 10.
Doing what Fadden urged him to do
months ago, Chifley has drawn on the
International Monetary Fund for 20
million dollars. He is careful to stress
that this is not a loan but a purchase. It
doesn’t matter much what the P.M. calls
the accommodation ; the fact remains he
has once more taken a course of action
at which he scoffed when the Opposition
suggested it. But he won’t admit it; that
is not the Chifley way.
A sentence from Ward’s election-season
plan for developing every known tropical
product in New Guinea in five years
would make Hubert Murray turn in his
grave:—
In dealing with hostile tribes, officers of
the district services had been instructed
not to use force except in case of neces-
sity, after all other means had failed. They
could open fire in self-defence only when
actually attacked, and then only when their
own lives or the lives of others were
endangered.
Under Murray’s policy in Papua there
was never any other method of dealing
with the natives, and when Wisdom
initiated our civilian administration in
the Mandated Territory he adopted the
same practice. In Murray’s time any
officer who referred to “hostile” natives
automatically became unfit for his job.
One of the results of the income-tax
laws which Dedman maintains are so
simple to understand has been the
springing-up in every city of a
flourishing crop of taxation “experts”
who make their living by unravel-
ling for the less knowledgeable the
intricacies —or the simplicities—of the
system. Many of them are former officers
of the Taxation Department who have, as
it were, changed horses. It seems a further
development is now on the way, whereby
one can ride two nags at once. Recently
four officers of the Taxation Department
in Brisbane were suspended, it being
alleged that they have been working for
taxation agents in their spare time.
Children and their parents in six
Sydney suburbs won’t get any milk if
Thompson, of the Milk and Ice Carters’
Union, has his way. Their offence is that
they live in homes served by milkmen
who do not belong to Thompson’s union.
There is, or was, a Milk Board in Sydney
whose job is to ensure a supply of milk
to everybody.
According to a witness at the Victorian
royal commission on Communism, several
“secret” Communists have been expelled
from the A.L.P. It’s high time they
started on some of the non-secret ones.
Anybody care to bet that within a fort-
night or so after petrol-rationing begins
agaifl the Federal Government will sud-
denly discover that there’s enough (per-
haps in that 50 million gallons for “De-
fence”) to allow of a big increase in the
allowance?
Stalin’s trade delegation in Britain has
ordered “foxhound puppies, well-bred and
six months old, for delivery to Russia.”
The puppies should understand that be-
fore being released to hunt Russian foxes
they must be strictly indoctrinated in
Marxist theory and practice.
The Wheat Board has forecast an Aus-
tralian harvest of 180 million bushels
this season, and claims it will be worth
£9O million to the growers. The board’s
spokesman didn’t say what that £9O
million would be worth in terms of pre-
war (pre-Socialist) currency.
TRIO—SLIGHTLY OUT OF TUNE.
Evait. Stack the High Court?
Who spread that report?
A suggestion so vile
Scarce merits denial.
Stack the High Court?—
It’s far from our thought.
Chifley. Stack the High Court? —
I feel that I ought
To express my disgust
At this treacherous thrust.
Stack the High Court?
It’s a lying report.
Ward. Stack the High Court?
You’ve said it, sport!
Those stubborn old guys
Aren’t the only ones wise.
Stack the High Court?
I reckon we ought!
N.S.W.
JASBY.


SINCE
1847
ft
MAKERS
OF GOOD WIN!
FOR MORE THAN
A CENTURY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Retirement last week of Dr. Francis
Xavier Gsell from the R.C. bishopric of
Darwin represents a definite loss in - the
ranks of Territorian missionaries. Born
in Alsace in 1872, he came here at 25
to teach theology in a Sydney monastery ;
left that for missionary work on Yule
Island, Papua; in 1911 established the
Bathurst Island (N.T.) mission, and built
it into one of the finest in Australia.
For practical purposes he was not only
pastor but ruling prince of his Bathurst
Island and Darwin flocks, and ruled them
with practical commonsense, rare insight
into the abo. mind and a firm benignity
which did much to mitigate the rigors of
life for them without inhibiting natural
living. His mission is a model.
One of the northern jokes is that he
bought more wives than any other Aus-
tralian. He did —buying from tribes
scores of young girls destined for Asiatic
pearlers and wild bush savages and marry-
ing them instead to mission males.
Seventy-seven this month, the kindly,
bearded bishop has served 43 years in
the Territory.
David Fairbairn, the Libs’ choice for
the new Farrer seat (N.S.W.), is cousin
of the man who was Minister for Air
in the Menzies Cabinet early in the war.
Schooled at Geelong Grammar and Cam-
bridge, Fairbairn returned home in 1938
with his M.A. and leanings for the land
at Holbrook. But Hitler interrupted, and,
already in the local Light Horse troop,
Fairbairn shifted to the R.A.A.F. and
ended in England again with No. 4
Squadron, R.A.F., flying Mustangs. Then
he changed to those fast, stripped-down
Spitfires carrying a huge camera and little
else which shot over Europe on recce
runs for the bomber squadrons ; for this,
D.F.C. In 1944 he was posted to another
Spitfire sqadron, this time operating
round Manus. With the cease-fire he
landed back on his Holbrook property,
to establish a Corriedale stud and preside
over the local R.S.L. branch. Now 32,
pasture, as well as political, improvement
is his interest.
This year’s rich John Gellibrarid
Memorial Scholarship (£BOO a year for
two years) goes to Brian Opie, who
showed his calibre at Adelaide Uni-
versity this year, leaving with bachelorship
of engineering and six credits in the four-
year course. He’s now 22. Future plans
centre round Glasgow University and a
fancy for naval architecture.
After four years in Europe, Fred
Thompson, the 1.R.0. man who some
months ago gave this page first-hand news
of his organisation’s work in Germany,
lands in Manila this week with his pro-
motion to Chief of the 1.R.0. Mission
there. He takes with him the honor
recently conferred on him by the
Pope of the old and distinguished Order
of Knight Commander of St. Sylvester.
“Trinco” salutes a field-marshal:
More than uniformed men in South Africa
will regret Jan Smuts’s retirement this month
as C.-in-C.—every European home I entered
in S. Africa during the war, without exception,
sported its portrait of “Slim Jan” and knew
bis history backwards. “Slim Jan” is the Boer’s
name for their commando-leader, and by Slim
they mean cagey. Once, during his Prime
Ministership, a hostile Parliament asked him
how much his Government had spent on the
war. His experts told him it would take 20
clerks four months to dig up the data. Next
day Smuts reported a sum, definite to the last
sixpence. He soothed his horrified experts by
remarking: “Keep calm. It will take,them
four months to prove me wrong.” A convert
to Empire (he got his law degree at Cambridge,
returned to Cape Town, when the British raided
a Boer town gave his allegiance to the Boers,
became a general, represented the Boers at the
peace, and in World War I led the Dominion
to war behind Britain), he had been C.-in-C.
of S’Africa’s armed forces since 1940, his con-
version again proving a godsend to the Empire.
At 79, still Leader of the Opposition, Smuts
retains the hard, springy steel of a polished
elder-statesman; he spare-times at growing
grasses on his farm 10 miles outside Pretoria.
“Macnell”; “See the Jimmy.” How
many hundreds of times daily that deci-
sion is made aboard a Fleet destroyer!
The Jimmy, or James, or Number One,
or first lieutenant (to quote some of his
printable titles), usually in his early
twenties, and second-dickey controlling
anything up to a quarter-million pounds-
worth of ship and 200 men, holds down
a job which ashore would bring him
nearer £2OOO a year than the £5OO-odd
it does afloat. He is responsible, to his
captain, for the gunnery and seamanship
efficiency of the ship, gives leave, stops
leave, sees defaulters, sees the canteen,
the mess-decks, the ship’s sports and scores
of other functions are properly carried
out, and, during refit, deals with more
questions than half a dozen information
bureaux. In addition to these little
chores, in judgment he must be a Solo-
mon, in patience a Job and in power
of command a Montgomery. And, as
well, he must be able (at 23 or so) to
handle 300-feet and 2000-tons of power-
packed hull at 30-odd knots. Such is
the new job of Lieutenant Mountbatten,
Duke of Edinburgh, new first lieutenant
of H.M. destroyer Chequers.
Endorsed by the Liberals, supported
by the Country party, Reg Swartz,
M.8.E., standing for the Darling Downs
(Q.) seat in December, is well known
thereabouts. He was born and schooled
in Brisbane, then Toowoomba, and has
been an oil-co. representative in the
Downs Queen City for years. Already
with 11 years in the C.M.F. when war
broke out, he joined the 2/26th Bat-
talion, A.1.F., in 1940, and left for
Malaya. The Japs kept him there for
three years, in which time he had a hand
in laying the Death Railway. Both
Menzies and Fadden spoke from the same
platform to open his campaign.
Here viewed by Mcßeath, Rev. F. A.
Hagenauer, who with his father has run
up the creditable tally of 100 years’
service to the Presbyterian Church—half
a century apiece. Hagenauer senior came
out as a missionary to Gippsland abos in
1858. His son, 74, “temporarily” taking
over the Cairns Memorial Church (Vic.),
had, till his recent retirement, been there
22 years. Before that he had retired, be-
cause of an accident in which he fell on a
church sundial and slit his windpipe open
for five inches. It happened the day
Rev. F.A. HAGEN AUER, out to grass.
before he was to sail overseas as a First
A.I.F. padre. Instead, he had a precarious
spell in hospital, lost his voice for five
months, regained it only to suffer failing
eyesight, left the church and took on
orcharding. Six years of that, then his
“temporary” return to church service.
One thing there is nothing temporary
about is his aversion to Communism,
which he’s been battling against for 20
years.
Caught here by Heth, naturalist
Charles Barrett, who dropped into The
Bulletin at the end of a six-months’
walkabout in New Guinea, New Britain
and the Solomons, adding to his already
vast knowledge of animal, plant and
insect life. Barrett unearthed up there
13 volumes of a MS. on the flora of
New Britain written over the years by
a German Catholic priest of the Kokopo
mission, and hidden in kerosene-tins
CHARLES BARRETT.
in from walkabout.
during the Jap occupation. There is no
published flora-record of the island avail-
able —this one, with its 500 illustrations
by the author, is, in Barrett’s expert
opinion, just about priceless. In the book
line Barrett, who already has a sizeable
raft of publications to his credit (his
Parrots of Australasia was Red Paged
last week), is busy editing The Pacific , a
complete record of the history, flora and
fauna of the area due for release next
year, compiled "by a dozen world-
authorities, including Sir Peter Buck, the
M.L. director of Bishop’s Museum in
Honolulu, and Professor Dakin. Barrett
himself has done a chapter on Birds of
Paradise. The naturalist’s wife trekked
with him on his walkabout, which, con-
sidering they both had their 70th birth-
day in Rabaul during it, is a stout effort.
After a six-months’ spell in Melbourne,
they’ll head back to the palms again.
Retiring after 24 years’ service, Wing-
Commander Andy Swan, senior air staff
officer at Point Cook and one-time
drummer-boy in the Black Watch, where
he rose to be w.o. Ist-class, fought for
three years in France against the Kaiser
and copped a nasty wound. Fit again, he
joined the Waziristan frontier force in
India. After 13 years’ soldiering he joined
the R.A.A.F. at Point Cook in 1925, ris-
ing to adjutant by the time Hitler
marched, and then taking a hand
in recruiting before heading for
Darwin to catch up the first Jap
raid. He stayed to see 40 of them,
then shifted to Brighton (Eng.), in com-
mand of the main depot for Australian
air-crews. When that was closed for the
invasion, he moved to Padgate, in Lan-
cashire. He was in the Pacific in
time for the surrender, and entered Japan
as s.a.s.o. with 81 Wing, from Labuan.
Then back to his starting-point, Point
Cook, with M.B.E. and three “mentions.”
He ends 40 years of soldiering and air-
forcing with positive convictions on the
necessity for compulsory military training.
John Stanley Storey, first chairman of
the new Immigration Planning Council,
knows easily enough about planning to
make this addition to his string of in-
terests a moral. Old Fortian and B.Sc.,
he is managing-director of Overseas
Corporation, Ltd., and chairman of
directors of Repco, and was vice-president
of the N.S.W. Chamber of Manufactures
and president of the Automotive Manu-
facturers’ Association. Add to these con-
siderable posts the directorship of the De-
partment of Aircraft Production and
membership of the Aircraft Advisory
Committee, plus a driving-seat in General
Motors-Holden between 1934-40, and his
planning experience would be hard to
better. He’s 52.
Born in that cradle of fishermen, Hull,
George Rayner takes temporary charge
(with his chief overseas) of C.5.1.R.0.’s
Division of Fisheries. Joining the Dis-
covery expedition in 1927, Rayner spent
most of the next five years doing research
work on whales in the Antarctic. He
made his first Australian landfall in
R.R.S. Discovery 11, during the ship’s
circum-polar cruise of 1932, and four
years later, in charge of research work in
R.R.S. William Scoresby, he landed on
Kemp Land, in the Australian sector of
Antarctica, which makes his the last
British foot ashore on this dependency.
When Hitler broke loose Rayner joined
the R.N.V.R., in the lowest possible com-
missioned rank (probationary acting-
temporary sub-lieutenant), the white fleck
of his Polar medal breaking the solid
blue of his new uniform. His first ship
was cruiser Newcastle, and in her, on a
1942 Malta convoy, he was caught by one
of that fierce variety of marine life a tin-
fish. Getting out of that all right, he
took two and a half stripes and his own
command back to the Mediterranean for
two years, ending with a brass hat and
appointment to the floating dockyard,
fleet repair-ship Artifex. With her servic-
ing the British Pacific Fleet, he called
here on his way home, and returned the
next year to continue his fisheries work
with his present department’s flotilla of
little research-ships.
For 15 years conductor of the Czecho-
slovakia Film-Opera-Concert Orchestra,
which he founded and which specialised
in film and recorded music, Rudolf
Pekarek goes to Perth to baton the A.B.C.
Orchestra. In those years Pekarek con-
ducted with such well-knowns as the
Czech Philharmonic and Vienna Sym-
phony Orchestras, till Hitler interrupted,
when for four years he exchanged baton
for pick in Polish mines. He escaped in
1944, did cultural work with the Czech
Liberation Army, and with peace returned
to Prague. But the Government took
over his orchestra, and the conductor de-
cided to get out before it took him over.
He landed in Australia with his wife early
this year. *
Into the Silence:
In Wellington, at 72, Frederick Furkert, one-
time Chief Engineer and Under-Secretary Of
the Works Department, for which he handled
some of M.L.’s biggest jobs, including the
Otira tunnel and Arapuni and Waikaremoana
hydroelectric schemes; he recently donated £5OO
to found a scholarship in engineering. As
well as his Companionship of St. Michael and
St. George, he was decorated in 1947 with the
Chinese award of the Brilliant Star.
In Toowoomba (Q.), at 71, Thomas Ewen
Butcher, retired civil-engineer, who fought in a
British regiment in the Boer War before settling
in Queensland. He joined the railways and
surveyed the Cairns-Atherton line.
In Melbourne, at 50, W. K. Donaldson,
general-manager of Courtauld’s and for 20
years one of the best-knowns of Melbourne’s
merchant Flinders Lane.
In Perth, at 66, F. I, Bray, one-time
Westralian Commissioner of Native Affairs,
Old Digger and State public servant for 51
years. As a junior in the Premier’s office in
1896 he attended Lord Forrest. He spare-timed
with local history, and through membership of
the Archives Board unearthed material for his
frequent papers on Westralia’s early days.
In Melbourne, at 60, knight Errol Knox,
Old Fortian, Old Digger, and, at the end, joint
managing-director of Melbourne “Argus.” In
between he had considerable editorial experience,
ranging from news-editor of Sydney “D.T.,”
first editor of the Australian Who’s Who,
managing-editor of the “Evening News” and,
in 1937, the same post on the “Argus.” His
World War II job was Director-General of
Army Public Relations; his knighthood was
this year’s vintage.
Henry Warburton Hodgetts, Adelaide share-
broker, at 67; Starting a civil servant,
Hodgetts became secretary of Adelaide Stock
Exchange, and for years headed the finh bear-
ing his name. Away from the office he was
on the cricket Board of Control.
In Auckland (M.L.), at 50, Dr. F. Birkinshaw,
an Englishman who joined the Royal Warwick-
shires at 16, fought with them in France, then
shifted to the R.A.F. With this service he got
to Arabia, and was personal pilot to T. E.
Lawrence.
In Melbourne, at 56, Dr. Cyril Gallister,
expert in food manufacturing. He joined Kraft
Cheese as head production chemist in 1926, and
became a director three years later.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
“B. A. Ker”: Years have passed since
Kipling wrote: “There is little change in
the building-trade,” but the statement is
still as true. Even the inane expressions
that I heard my grandfather use are still
going strong. A scaffold still “Can’t fall
—there’s nothing holding it,” Pieces of
timber are never too short; they’re still
“Too short one end.” And men trusting
their weight on flimsy structures are still
humorously advised to “Stand on tiptoe.”
Yet an occasional old tradition leaves the
youngsters floundering, as when the
apprentice approached me with the
puzzled question: “What’s the idea of
that?” I followed his pointing finger to
the job on the hill; the brickie had built
the chimney-stack—and left a beer-bottle
standing on the top. The symbol of a
thirsty brickie! I hadn’t seen it done for
many years, but it was once a common
practice—a gentle reminder to the owner
that he had not “wet the job.” The
custom dated from the old English
steeplejacks, who made a point of leav-
ing a bottle on the top of their completed
jobs. As nobody else had the nerve to
climb up and remove the dumb proclama-
tion of tight-waddedness, the bottle stayed
there until the boss did the right thing. In
the case nearer home, the bottle is still in
position though the brickie has long gone.
My curiosity is aroused. Was the owner
too mean to shout? Can he be a total-
abstainer, proud of the emblem denoting
his refusal to supply men with the demon
drink? Or is it that he just doesn’t know
how to play?
* * * *
“Findy”; Three or four months ago
“Bo” wrote a par. on this page about the
growth among the female population of
the habit of saving threepences, using
a bottle as a safe-deposit. I wish he
hadn’t. My wife read the item, washed
out a plonk-bottle and from that day
onwards I haven’t been able to call a
treybit my own. It has developed into
a battle of wits between us. I have to
be careful always to give my Sydney
paperboy exact money for my evening
rag ; if I give him more there is bound to
be a trey in the change, which means my
paper costs me sixpence—threepence for
the boy and threepence for the bottle —
unless I take an unnecessary tram-ride on
the way home to get my money’s worth.
The husband of another silver-coin addict
tells me this is merely a passing phase
and that before long I’ll find myself giving
the newsboy a shilling in the hope of
getting three trizzies change. I doubt it.
Anyway, as a saving scheme the bottle-
bank is elementary compared with one
practised by a colleague, whose method is
to overcharge himself for everything he
buys. If he makes out a cheque for £2
14s. lid. he enters it on the cheque-
butt as £3, thus placing ss, Id. in a secret
reserve. Sounds a bit like the idea of
keeping your watch half an hour fast,
but he swears by it.
* * * *
“P.0.M.C.”: Many aspiring young
musicians approach the violin with vigor,
practise upon it with ever-increasing
periods between lessons, and then permit
it to collect the dust of years upon the
top of the kitchen shelf or cupboard. But
in my experience the most unusual reason
for finally “giving it away” was advanced
by an ex-violinist-pianist on a radio
amateur programme the other evening.
Asked why he had forsaken the fiddle in
favor of the piano he drawled: “Aw, the
violin’s too hard —you’ve got to hold it
up!”
* * * *
Here’s another theory about
poliomyelitis (B. 5/10/’49). Dr. Lepine,
of the Pasteur Institute, believes that an
excess of vitamin B is a contributory
cause. He bases this belief on the fact
that there is an excess of pterin—the
pterins are a chemical group identified
with butterfly-wing pigments—in the
spinal fluid of polio patients. The pterins
form a base of vitamin B, which nourishes
the polio virus. Other pieces of evidence
supporting this theory are that the disease
attains epidemic proportions only in
countries enjoying a high standard of
living, and usually in the summer months
when the “protective” foods are most
abundant. Again, both polio epidemics
and public interest in vitamins are recent
developments. Dr. Lepine advises people
to go slow on vitamin B during summer.
* * * *
“Salt Horse Pom”: The gunboat
Gayundah, a relic of Queensland’s pre-
Federation navy (B. 21/9/’49), was in
service in Melbourne until a month or so
ago as buoy-tender to the Public Works
Department. Now she lies in Footscray
Creek, awaiting sale for scrap. During
her Melbourne career her name was
changed to Rip, but she retained many
features of her naval days, such as solid
brass ventilator-cowls and magazine
hatchways. Her engines, which ran like
a clock, were set at an angle of 45 degrees
to the vertical (she was twin-screw). She
steamed her eight knots until the day of
"Have you girls been saved yet ?”
her final lay-up. How do I know? I
was her last commanding-officer.
* * * *
“Spare Corp.”: There are probably still
a few Old Diggers who can remember
with exultation the way they enjoyed
Melbourne Cup day, 1917. Prisoners-of-
war from Gallipoli, they were working
on the railway from Constantinople to
Baghdad which the Germans wanted
hurried through ; they were under Turkish
control, and it was mainly kindly. One
of its principles was that the religious
occasions of the prisoners had to be
respected, even to the extent of the provi-
sion of special rations for holidays that
were feast- rather than fast-days. Some
of the boys had received, in parcels sent
by the Red Cross, pocket diaries in which
there were calendars published in accord-
ance with the Victorian list of dates ; the
fact that the first Tuesday in November
was cased out in red ink as an official
State holiday gave them an idea. A
deputation was formed ; when the Turkish
commandant saw that the thing was in
black-and-white and red print he had no
“Another ringer to me, Ben!"
hesitation, a holiday being the same as
Holy Day to him. The Aussies were
excused from work and granted
special privileges in food on this sacred
occasion; other prisoners-of-war who
had to go to their monotonous toil saw
them and marvelled.
* H= * *
“Narsty Norm”: Bet “Clooter” was
surprised to find his par. re lottery luck
with gift tickets (B. 19/10/’49) refuted
even before publication date! Sydney’s
daily Press, following its custom of making
lottery-winners figures of national news
importance, disclosed that a young lady
who scored the big money in the State
gamble drawn on the 18th had received
the ticket as a 22nd-birthday gift. I wish
“Clooter” would write a par. about my
habit of buying tickets solus.
* * * *
“Clooter”: Upon complaining lately
of lassitude during the day I’ve been
assailed by advice to “Get up early
in the morning, son. Trouble is, so many
people miss these glorious mornings.” I
don’t believe it. Even with the sacred
40-hour week religiously observed most
people are bound to be at their jobs by
eight or nine o’clock, and in my city
that entails rising at latest by seven.
Country people, of course, know
different conditions. But I’ve never en-
joyed an early morning except on a no-
work day. On other days the thought of
the impending journey by bus or tram
overshadows the song of the magpie,
the glory of the flowers and the light of
the sun. And I’ve noticed that nearly
all domestic squabbles are staged at the
breakfast-table, when everybody is sup-
posed to be cheerful and full of the
morning brightness. We follow northern
European patterns too slavishly in this
country; instead of adopting the
southern European siesta and getting our
work done in the cool hours we
slave in the hot hours and are too
tired to enjoy the cool when it comes.
What really causes my lassitude? Oh,
getting up at daybreak to see if I can
shake off the lassitude induced by getting
up at seven.
* * * ♦
“Laetitia”; A little reflection may con-
vince “B. A. Ker” (B. 24/8/’49) that
Chaplin’s art deteriorated, not when his
films developed “a message” but when
he became articulate. His art was at its
purest when his face registered silent
pathos at the frustrations which met his
every move. Audiences guffawed at the
indignities to which Chaplin was sub-
jected ; the appeal was to their sub-
conscious. The talking film depends on
humor, not wit, to raise its laughs, and
must direct its vocal message to the
audience’s conscious, which, being more
discriminating, is less apt to release the
belly laugh. If “8.A.K.” thinks back on
the last time he laughed at a talkie he
will probably recall that his longest sus-
tained mirth was during a period in
which the characters performed in dumb
show. In short, action is the vehicle of
comedy and dialogue that of drama.
* * * *
“Barang”: For the first and last time
I found myself in a “serve-yourself”
eating-joint. Everything went all right
till 1 came to the cake section. There
it was a real bun-struggle. Although
there was a notice asking patrons to use
the tongs for handling foodstuffs, only
about one person in 10 troubled to do so,
the others picking up sections of sponge-
cakes —dropping them arid looking for a
more favored piece, at times licking their
fingers before selecting another. I went
without cake.
“Taswegian”: A short time ago the
papers mentioned the revival of the manu-
facture of mead on a commercial scale
in England. At Gulval, near Penzance,
the mead was blessed in four languages
—Latin, Cornish, Anglo-Saxon and
English—to the accompaniment of a fan-
fare by boy trumpeters, a beadle, heralds
and a pageboy bearing a wooden drink-
ing-cup. Makers of mead in my home
city are not so fortunate. A few years
ago a recipe for home-made mead won
the weekly recipe contest in our paper;
the next day’s issue carried a warning
from the Customs department that any-
one making the drink would be liable to
prosecution, as it would contain a higher
percentage of alcohol than is allowed in
any home-brew.
* * * ♦
“Sixenate”; School photographs (B.
12/10/’49) can have a usefulness quite
unexpected. Some years ago a man was
“wanted” for a robbery-with-violence
crime. The usual “police net” failed to
catch him; but quite suddenly the police
located him in a country town. Amongst
his possessions they had found a school
photograph in which the culprit and an-
other boy were sitting side by side each
with an arm around the other’s shoulder.
The police guess that it might be worth
while to trace the chap who seemed to
have been the school pal of the miscreant
proved a good one. An honest young
man, he had learnt a trade, gone to the
country and prospered. For old time s
sake he had been unable to resist his
former mate’s appeal for sanctuary.
THE MAN FROM SNOWY RIVER.
“Motorists crowded garages rumored to have
petrol last week, and Mr. Chifley, having poured it
out liberally in opening the Snowy Mountains
project, blamed the petrol companies and said the
public must wait a month until rationing began.”
There was movement at the station, for the
word had got around
“Some petrol might be coming in today” —
By then a coupla gallons was worth a thousand
pound,
So many queues were blocking up the way.
All the tried and sentenced drivers from the
suburb's near and far
Had gathered by the bowsers overnight,
For the townsman loves his petrol when the
price is nearly par,
And his engine skips and wheezes with delight.
There was old Ben Chif, who made his name
by selling “Labor’s” pup,
An old man with his head as white as snow.
But none could drive beside him when his
blood was fairly up—
He would do what many sane men wouldn’t
do.
And one there was, a stripling in a battered
little bus,
He was blood from hip to shoulder from
the spur,
Such as any group of taxpayers might greet
as “one of us” —
“And who,” said old Ben Chif, “are you,
young sir?”
“I’m the man from Snowy River, where the
‘Labor’ spruikers cry,
And I’m drivin’ back there urgent from afar,
For I promised I’d return to them some day
before I die,
Which is why I need some petrol for my car.”
“I wouldn’t go to Snowy, I’d stay here if I
was you,
And trade that old jalopy for a tram;
By the time you get to Snowy we’ll have
changed the River to
A powerhouse, a tunnel and a dam;
“Besides, boy, there’s no petrol; at the moment
we’re engaged
In seeing no one gets it from the pumps;
For when the world’s agin us, our feelings are
assuaged
By kicking helpless people in the rumps;
“We did it when the miners struck, instead of
getting coal,
And, now it’s petrol, once again we’ll do 't;
It doesn’t help, we know, or chasten anybody’s
soul,
But it makes us happy, puttin’ in the boot.”
But the man from Snowy River sat and pon-
dered in dismay:
“The feeling’s changed since Banjo’s time,”
he said.
“I think I’ll get a horse, and start for Snowy
right away
Before the stream he sang of, too, is dead.”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


‘Bo : Sydney newsreels have been
featuring a short depicting the life-story
of Rudolph Valentino. The funeral scenes
of the 31-year-old matinee idol were cer-
tainly harrowing, and offer strong proof
that in morbidity and callowness the
milling herds of humans who trample
each other and push cops around to view
the last rites of a departed actor in the
U.S.A. or a late-lamented gangster in
Sydney have much in common. But what
was obviously meant to be a sentimental
tribute —spoken in the commentator’s
most fruitily solemn tones, to one whose
manly if rather Spiggotty beauty caused
flutters in the hearts of millions of
flappers young and old —badly misfired.
This was because of the bursts of laughter
at the ham acting of Rudolph, whose
sole idea of drama seemed to be to grasp
his bewchus victim by the wrist and hurl
her on to a couch, what time he gazed
at her with what the novelists call
smouldering” eyes. Even the glamorous
striped tent couldn’t offset the risible
effects of the bellowdrama upon the
bobbysoxers. It’s a hard world for out-
dated heroes.
* * * *
“Becks”: It started with a letter a
Melbourne businessman sent to the
Argus” saying that he had received a
letter from a London firm stating that a
Board of Trade order had been issued in-
sisting that in writing the abbreviation
f, or ° s unces “oz.” should be used, not
ozs/’ The Melbourne man considered
it a shocking example of red-tape that a
Government department should waste its
time issuing such an order. To this an-
other reader wrote agreeing with the
8.0. T., whereat the first bloke accused
him of missing the point, which was not
a matter of which abbreviation was
correct, but whether the 8.0. T. should
have wasted time on it. He then went on
to say that he belonged to the ‘‘ozs”
school of thought. I’m with him on the
hrst point but not on the second. Would
he write that the “Argus” cost 2ds. or
that the distance from Melbourne to
Geelong is 50ms.?
* * * *
“Also Ran”: I listened drowsily to the
radio telling the world that an aircraft
had flown, in record time, from Perth to
Sydney, a distance of 1850 miles, which
was quite clear until the announcer added
as the crow flies.” Now I really am
puzzled. When a crow flies, say, from the
Sydney Harbor bridge to South Head
light, presumably he gets sufficient alti-
tude to see his destination and then flies
along the line of sight. But if he has a
beam wind, does he lay off for it or does
he keep the fight dead ahead? And, in
a long distance, where it is impossible to
see the destination, does he steer a steady
compass-course or follow a great circle?
Even if Kelly does not fly those distances
except by point-to-point navigation, what
of migratory birds which fly to Asia from
Australia and back again? Do they
follow a rhumb-line or a great circle?
* * * *
“C.A.L.”: Because my car bore an
eastern States number-plate I was
addressed as “Stranger” when parking in
Kalgoorlie s main street. The salutation
from the man on the kerb was not one of
greeting but an inquiry as to how long
my vehicle would be left in that spot.
“As long as I care to leave it here,” I
replied; “there are no parking-signs.”
“That’s a fact,” my questioner agreed,
“but all the same, don’t leave it there too
long.” I couldn’t see that it was any
business of his and I said so. “Don’t be
too sure of that,” another voice from a
burly gent, complete with a couple of
urgers broke into the argument. “Be
reasonable and shift soon. This pitch
has been reserved by us ever since they
“A bloke nearly beat me for this possie yesterday
closed our shop. Now we carry on with
our betting in the street and are fined for
obstructing the traffic only.” It was the
size of the spokesman and his henchmen
that decided me against remaining any
longer at the spot, so, backing out from
the kerb, I drove to a place which would
not hamper the activities of the s.p.
bookies.
* * * *
“Unicorn”: Circumvented by bureau-
cracy, which wouldn’t give them a permit
to build a garage, friends removed the
big bay-window of the spare room and
used the timber to put up two long doors
which look as though they lead to some
elegant interior. Visitors get rather a
shock when a madman, who has
apparently lost control of his senses and
the steering-gear, drives directly for the
house and stops dead just in the nick of
time in front of two obstructing doors.
Nervous passengers breathe again—then
gasp as the doors swing open, the car
goes merrily ahead, and they step through
the erstwhile spare-room door into the
entrance hall of the house.
* * * *
“Hyanlo”: Don’t know whether the
spruiker is on a week’s notice or just
doesn’t realise what he’s saying, but as
the truck with the loudspeaker advertising
the travelling vaudeville show passes my
door I can hear him as plainly as any-
thing proclaiming “ in the big tent by
the railway-station. Don’t fail to miss
this show tonight.”
* * *
“Tarp”: Rescue of a woman who
jumped overboard from the S.S. General
Greely brings to mind an incident I
witnessed in 1943, a night out from
Bombay en route to Capetown. The
“So much for your reflexes, Miss Parker!”
ship’s cook, who had been on a binge
for a week before we left, was seen to go
overboard. The captain put the ship
round and lowered a lifeboat. We thought
he’d be easy to find because as soon as
he went in the third-mate tossed a lifebelt
after him, to which was attached a light.
We watched the light float aft for about
a minute and then it went out. After
a v couple of hours’ fruitless search we
decided a shark had copped the cook and
we carried on to Capetown eating in-
different grub, prepared by the second
steward. When we reached the Cape
there was cookie as large as life and
quite sober. His story was that he had
climbed into the lifebelt and, finding
the light annoying, had tom the bulb out
of the socket and contentedly floated
around till daylight. Next morning a
Dutch troopship bound in the same
direction as ourselves had picked him
up and had brought him to Cape Town,
where she berthed two days before us.
Cookie’s only comment on his experience
was “that Dutch gin is crook.”
* * * *
“Kelvin”: With thousands of others
I paid my bob to see the pigmy billed
as being able to speak only the primitive
lingo of darkest Africa. The guiver was
corroborated to a degree when the Lilli-
putian became horribly vocal in high-
piping gibberish. At the end of the
show he showed vigorous salesmanship in
thrusting upon patrons souvenir post-
cards of himself. A big bloke in a Mun-
gallala Stetson, evidently not observing the
selling-price of one shilling marked on
the cards, accepted one with no visible
intent of tendering payment. After a
few moments of open-palmed and
abortive gesticulation the diminutive one
became articulate in purest King’s Cross
to demand “What about the payfer part,
mug?” The big bloke paid up instanter
and retreated in disorder, thereby saving
himself from certain asphyxiation as a
result of the lodgment of a pigmy in his
gullet, since the little fellow was clearly
posing himself for a jump into the bush-
man’s widely-gaping mouth.
* * * *
“Pat”: An organisation to which I
belong sent out notices announcing that
a “very important person” had consented
to relinquish some of his valuable time
and act as guest-speaker. Members were
asked to arrive promptly at 7.30 p.m. and
to bring along as many friends as pos-
sible, an overflowing hall being psycho-
logically essential to the V.I.P. At 7.30
a newsreel was shown ; at 8 o’clock a
second film on atomic warfare; at nine
the president spoke at length of the or-
ganisation’s aims and ideals, and at 9.30
there was a 15-minute interval when
visitors were requested to fill in member-
ship forms. All this time the guest-speaker
sat patiently at the back of the audi-
torium. About 10, when half the audi-
ence had rushed off to catch trains, relieve
baby-sitters and so on he was introduced
and spoke entertainingly and briefly.
V.LP. he may have been, but Mr, Presi-
dent prefaced his introduction with, “We
seem to have overstepped our time, so
if Mr. could condense his talk.... ”
* * * *
“1.M.H.”: My Sunday paper carries
an advertisement offering to provide
earthworms for the enrichment of my
garden. I know it is said that commerce
is the jackal of science, but I wonder
how Charles Darwin, whose research
raised the earthworms from sinister
plant-gnawers to agricultural angels,
would have reacted to the suggestion that
his work would one day be exploited com-
mercially. While we’re on the subject,
do you buy earthworms by the pint,
pound, yard, or what? And if by the
yard, is there a Bureau of Standards to
apply laws of fair stretching to the linear
measurements of earthworms offered for
sale?
* * * *
“Merna”: If any battle-banner is neces-
sary for Australians, my nomination will
be a koala rampant. In Adelaide an
orphaned koala is being brought up on
a doll’s bottle because his savage mother
was killed while attacking a stallion!
* * * *
“G’roper”; Tell “G’snatcher” (B.
25/5/’49) that Fremantle Harbor Trust
engineers wouldn’t say anything so out-
of-date as “that oil can’t be removed
from waters, troubled or untroubled.”
The Yanks developed a method during
the war —to avoid just what happened in
Fremantle. The process is extremely
simple: merely to sprinkle fine dry sand
on areas where the waste oil has gathered
thickly. Dry sand sticks to oil and the
law of gravity does the rest—the oil-sand
particles sink to the harbor-bed, where
they accumulate in the form of a thick
sludge. Periodical dredging with a
suction-pump cleans that up.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Even his obtaining the
Olympic Games for Melbourne has not
endeared Lud Mayor Disney to me so
much as his recent action in calling the
bluff of a gentleman purporting to speak
for some organisation for protecting the
sanctity of the Sabbath who protested at
the use of the Town Hall for a charitable
concert on a Sunday. Councillor Disney
invited him to reveal the number of
members of his sect or order to show
just how much public opinion he had be-
hind him. It would probably be found
that the number was microscopic relative
to the numbers who don’t care what
happens on a Sunday. But like the beer-
drinkers these don’t happen to be
organised.
* * * *
“Ex-C.G.”: The old Royal pub at
Ballarat is to go up for auction in
December. In the gold days it was
bought by Walter Craig, who made it
into a three-storied building with a tower.
It did a roaring trade in the gold boom,
and there would have been a big night
there after Nimblefoot won the Mel-
bourne Cup in 1870 only that Walter
Craig, who owned him, died just before
the race. Craig said he had dreamed he
saw Nimblefoot winning, with the jockey
wearing a black armband, and A. L.
Gordon, who had run the livery-stables
at the Royal two years previously, made
some verses on it, the only line of which
I can remember described a vision of
“Dead men, and horses long since dead”
appearing in the race. The old pub was
the first stamping-ground of the Ballarat
Liedertafel, the probable forerunner of
the South-street musical and elocutionary
competitions.
* * * *
“Sackfair”: “Buy a present for your
sister’s birthday,” said the wife ; “she’d like
a china-dog, or something.” Rather self-
consciously I went into the shop and
asked for “one of those nine-and-eleven-
penny dogs.” “None left,” said the
salesman. Without realising the gravity
of my crime I asked politely: “I suppose
you wouldn’t take that one out of the
window?” There was a pause, then “Yes,”
said the shopman with a sarcasm that I
failed to detect; “I’ll take it out; I’ll take
it out —if you like to wait.” In my
innocence I thanked him. “Yes,” he con-
tinued, and for the first time I noticed
that his face was blazing red, and his
general attitude that of a man who has
been grossly insulted ; “but you’ll have a
long wait —it took me three days to put
it in ; it’ll take me three days to get it
out. You’ll get a bit tired of waiting.” I
made what I hope was a dignified
exit. What a lot can happen in
six months! Yesterday I saw his
Arrogance cat-walking in the window,
twisting past obstacles, squirming and
reaching until he was able to withdraw
an article. He fawned on the customer
as he wrapped the purchase up—an ash-
tray marked Is, 9d.
A MATTER OF PRIDE.
“Commenting on figures released by the Army
Minister which revealed that, of the total Australian
Armv strength of 31,000, about 15,000 comprised
officers and n.c.os., Archie Cameron said the situation
could be paralleled only in some South American
republics.”
Ours is a wondrous army;
We’ve brasshats by the score,
And—though it may seem barmy—
They number even more
Than privates. Still, it’s handy
To know that, in a way,
Our army’s quite as dandy
As that of Paraguay.
We’re not exactly braying
With proud and boastful air
In summarily saying
There isn’t, anywhere,
An army like it. Silly,
You interrupt? It’s true —
Excepting that of Chile,
Or maybe of Peru.
v Of sixteen-thousand swaddies.
Probably half of those
Are “dingbats”—everybody’s
Got one —or two; who knows?
And by the time provision
For cooks, etcetera’s made,
Our fighting-strength position
Is that of one brigade.
In this there’s naught alarming,
Nothing of which to speak;
We’re vigorously arming—
We’d one recruit last week.
If only we could muster
A hare few thousand more
Our arms might yet out-lustre
The arms of Ecuador!
/
Spare colonels help the gunners,
On ammo give a hand;
Odd majors now are “runners,”
A general’s in the band.
Although it may work queerly,
We give three loud “Hurrahs!”
To think our army’s nearly
As good as Panama’s!
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“8.A.K.”: There has been a plague
of green frogs down our street. Not the
harmless little fellows that eat pests
around the garden, but huge concrete
horrors. From every porch, step and
verandah-wall they leer, sneer and jeer.
How the thing started I can’t ascertain ;
it seems they just happened: one morning
I went to work as usual, and when I
returned they were there in all their
green-painted repulsiveness. Even my
own verandah harbored one of the
horrors. Feeling in a courageous mood
I registered a protest; subjugation was
prompt and complete: “That just shows
how much interest you take in the place
—that frog’s been there nearly three
weeks.” So twice a day I’ve had to run
the gauntlet of those leering, lifeless eyes.
But I won’t have to endure it much longer
now. “Emoh-Ruo” has had to remove
its eyesore, and 12a will spon be dump-
ing theirs into the garbage-tin. Ours
has not reached that stage yet, but on
present progress it can’t last more than
three weeks or a month. And every
frog in the street is beginning to look
as pockmarked as the villain in espion-
age novels. Perhaps there is some mun-
dane explanation for the splendid sabot-
age ; perhaps something in the green paint
tastes pretty good to the destroyers (it
can’t be anything in the concrete, since
imitation-log flower-boxes escape atten-
“I’m sick of this cuckoo business?’
tion), but I prefer to think those “spags”
have the kind of aesthetic taste that does
something about eyesores instead of
passing with a shudder.
* * * *
“Solitude”: I rounded the end of the
spur and spotted Seventyfiver just as a
nesting magpie swooped on him. Maggie’s
attack caught his nag’s ear, and the
animal retaliated with a quick side-jump
as his back came up. Seventyfiver wasn’t
expecting the manoeuvre. At first it
looked as though he was taking off after
Mag direct; then a few seconds later I
saw his nag streaking for the skyline, with
the old bloke dragging by one leather.
Straight towards the timber went the
moke, with a quarter-mile lead, a free
rein, and nothing to stop him but a heart-
felt cursing from one stirrup—cursing that
increased in volume as he struck a patch
of bog. My hack hit top from a standing
jump. I angled towards the timber, but
the .lead was too great, and I realised I
couldn’t make it in time. The old bloke
was on the far side, and as his moke hit
another bog on the timber-line there came
a mess of floundering, a chorus of snorts
and blasphemy, and I arrived to see a
hand leave the stirrup-leather and grab
a rein. “Silly flamin’ cow niily got away
on me,” puffed Seventyfiver wrathfully.
“Gripes, if I ’adn’t grabbed that leather
as I fell I wouldn’t never ’a’ caught the
silly goat again f’r hours!”
* * * *
“Shamuseen”: More enterprising than
“P. O’Rell’s” Papuan purri-purri man (B.
5/10/’49) was a certain Torres Straits
practitioner who dealt in love-potions.
His clientele was restricted entirely to
lovelorn Binghi belles. As distinct from
the hackneyed technique of his effete
European counterparts, the T.S. gentleman
absorbed the love philtre himself in order
to test its efficiency. The criterion of
effectiveness was the degree of approval
with which it caused him to view the indi-
vidual members of his clientele. In no
case was failure reported, and, true
scientist that he was, the magic merchant
waived all fees, being quite content to
preserve the right to test all his wares.
Unable to recognise pure altruism when
encountered, a clod of a “Gubmint”
official clamped the wizard in the boob,
in which necessarily eremitical environ-
ment the spark of scientific experiment
was extinguished.
“Curate’s Egg”; In “Telarb’s” Torres
Straits native Beak (B. 5/10/’49) I find it
easy to identify old Nomoa, last of the
raamooses or high-chiefs-c«m-arbiters of
the once warrior-tribe of Argan on Badu
Island. Whilst conceding that Binghi
jurisprudence in those barmy isles pro-
duces some Gilsullivan situations, I re-
member many occasions on which it was
impressive. A particular instance was a
case of marital infidelity in which a
village policeman gave the Bench a
piquant reconstruction of the scene. But
I was surprised when the evidence was
accepted without corroboration and with-
out any attempt at denial by the defend-
ants, I learned later that the policeman’s
evidence was based solely on deductions
from observance of signs on the disturbed
terrain. When it is considered that the
islanders are such superb trackers that
every individual footprint of each mem-
ber of a village population of about
600 is known to every other inhabitant,
it will be understood that corroborative
evidence as to identity is not material.
* * *
“Old-timer”: When Kelly got off the
train at Lang Lang one night he sur-
veyed the sleeping village and decided
that it was time it was waked up. So he
went to the post-office. Thus it was that
the publican heard the phone ringing,
answered, and was told somebody was
trying to break into the storehouse behind
the pub. A few minutes later the local
cop answered the phone and learned the
same thing. The publican accoutred
himself with a torch and waddy and went
warily to the storehouse, where he flashed
the torch about and peered into dark
corners. About then the policeman
oozed quietly over the back fence, saw
a prowler with a torch and fell upon him.
They struggled silently and fiercely for
“I think he looks perfectly ducky!"
a moment or two, then recognised each
other and fell apart, blowing and in-
dignant. Kelly, who’d witnessed all this
from the gate, then inserted himself into
the yard and asked, “What about a bed
for the night?” “When we’ve had a
drink,” the publican replied, and led the
way inside. But it was a trap for Kelly,
for it suddenly occurred to that police-
man to get even with somebody, and he
pinched Kelly for loitering with illegal
intent. Next morning Kelly was forced
to tell a morose J.P. the truth of the
matter, and it cost him fifty-bob in fines
and costs. “The trouble with these Gipps-
land towns,” says Kelly, “is they’ve no
sense of humor.”
* * * *
“J.M.C.”: The trouble with Sandy’s
burrcutters started with the arrival of a
young chap with very Leftist ideas on
work. The day after he joined the team
the men went on strike, demanding five-
bob-a-day extra pay because the burrs
were in seed. Sandy reluctantly gave in.
Two days later the men downed tools
again, asking for an extra two-shillings-
a-day dirt money, as they were working
on cultivated land. “The award lays it
down,” said the self-appointed organiser,
and as Sandy wasn’t well versed in the
finer points of industrial law he again
gave in. A few days later he saw the
men walking'towards their hut, half-way
through the morning. “What’s wrong
now?” he asked. “The light’s too bad,”
replied the Stalinite. “.You wouldn’t
want the men to cut themselves, would
you, an’ be up f’r heavy compo? We’ll
inspect again after lunch.” Sandy
departed for the house. At midday the
men came along for their meal. “Here,
what the hell’s this mess?” asked the
Red. “Rabbit-pie,” replied Sandy. “I
know it looks a bit queer, but it’s that
bad light that’s to blame. The ole woman
reckoned if it was too dangerous to cut
burrs in it, then it was too dangerous to
skin the rabbits, so she had to cook them
with their coats on.” The hoes were
working again that afternoon, but one
workman was missing. The light was still
too bad for him —the other members of
the team had seen to that, as both his
eyes were almost closed.
* * * *
“Rooster”: Whether birds can see
colors sufficiently well to differentiate
between them is a moot point. We take
it for granted that scarlet, crimson and
purple fruits attract avians, and that the
bright colors of cock birds can be seen
by their mates. Experiments have shown
that most birds can distinguish bright
colors, but dull blues and purples are
beyond their color-sense. This partly
explains why the humming-birds, self-
appointed pollinators of flowers, are
strongly attracted to red blooms. It is
estimated that 84 p.c. of flowers visited
by humming-birds are red. In the color-
ing of birds themselves violet is not
found, and blue is not common. The
macaw, kingfisher, jay and blue tit are
the few exceptions .in cerulean tints, but
it is noticeable that in each case it is a
clearly defined bright blue. There are
almost no blue foods for either birds
or mammals.
* * * *
“Bo”: It had been several months
since Wild ’Un Woolley, the township’s
rough carpenter, had been on one of his
benders. On the last occasion the seven
days he had copped as a result had been
put to very good use by Marsden, the
constable, who, at the expiration of the
sentence, had a new dog-kennel and new
clothesline-posts set in concrete. It was
probably coincidence that a few days
after the constable had bought three
bottles of beer at McGuinness’s pub
Wild ’Un got word to call at the railway-
station for a parcel that had been found
there addressed to him. Wild ’Un’s
delighted surprise at the anonymous gift
was exceeded only by his speed in doing
with them as was intended, and that
touched off the inevitable bender. The
next afternoon he was in the lock-up.
A few days later someone asked Marsden
how Wild ’Un was getting albng. “He’s
pining away,” answered the cop. “Well,
he could do with a bit less weight,” re-
marked the inquirer. “He must be about
fifteen stone.” “Oh, it’s nothing to do
with his weight,” came back the Law
heartily. “He’s hoop-pining away. The
wife’s been wanting those new shelves in
the kitchen for months.”
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: Won’t agree with
“B. A. Ker” that by the termites “native
hardwoods are slightly more appreciated
than imported softwoods” (B. 28/9/’49).
In W.A., at least, they’ll detect, and eat,
a piece of Oregon in record time. To
poison them we usually sandwich the
bait between two pieces of pine and bury
it, or just leave it lying around. Once
found a “covered way” running to the
top of a jarrah pole supporting an aerial.
It led to a small pine bracket at the top.
That was all they took, and they travelled
over 20ft. of jarrah to get to it.
* * * *
“Billy T.”; The motor-car has, of
course, done much for the country town.
People come in more quickly and from
greater distances; inter-town sports and
social events are easily accomplished;
stores and shoppers can always get home
dry. But while all the gains are granted,
there is, in my rustic assessment, a debit
entry —Saturdays are now sadly deficient
in dogfights. In the days when buggies,
sulkies, carts and hacks headed for town
for the football match and the late
shopping and the dance after, each horse
was followed by at least one tyke, and the
friendships, flirtations, rivalries and rows
amongst these were not less keen than the
similar interests amongst their owners.
There were feuds and grudges to attend
to, cobbers to scout around with, girl
friends to look up, all the time keeping a
watch out for any newcomer with the
hope of taking a rise out of him; and
when the football got properly under way
it was a poor day if a donnybrook on the
field didn’t have its canine counterpart
outside the boundary. There were the
problem people; the Brogan boys usually
caused trouble, but Jackson’s Airedale and
Mac Alister’s blue-heeler were of just the
same type, and somebody was generally
lugging these apart just as the constable
was removing Danny Brogan to a place
of temporary seclusion. Now and again
a quiet wag would create pandemonium
amongst the superior race with a wry
practical joke, but it was old Cunningham
who caused the greatest stir among the
dogs. He fitted a bit of cork into the
front of his kelpie’s muzzle and through it
pushed the end of a fine needle ; Brownie
was a friendly dog and was utterly be-
wildered when an acquaintance would
clap its tail down and go yelping up the
street after one introductory sniff. Dogs
still come in, riding in utilities and trucks,
but, as with their owners, there doesn’t
seem to be the leisure now for the restful
intercourse of former times, and they're
no sooner doing the round than a whistle
brings them bounding back into their
vehicle. Anyway, those who previously
backed their four-legged scrappers are
now round behind the pub doing their
dough on less reliable quadrupeds, and
another noble institution is, with the
buggies, slipping into the past.
BAA, BAA, BLACK SHEEP!
Baa, baa, black sheep,
Why are you so black? . . .
One day when I was dreaming
I took the Inky Track;
I thought it led to glory,
I dreamed it led to gold ... •
I should'have stayed a white sheep
All safe within the fold.
Baa, baa, black sheep,
Don’t you be so mad;
You would have missed the mateship
And all the joy you’ve had,
That men can’t buy with money.
And rich men mostly lack . . .
Don’t tell me you weren’t happy
Along the Inky Track.
Baa, baa, black sheep,
Maybe you are right
When Life is at its dawning,
But it ain’t so good at night.
I never got the glory
And I nev6r found the gold, .
But, all the same, I’m sorry
For the white sheep in the fold.
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


“C.E.”: Dad leaned on his hoe and
watched as the old tourer chugged past.
“That’s young Bob Andrews goin’ inter
town again,” he remarked. “And it ain’t
much more’n six o’clock. All dressed up,
too.” He shook his head slowly, and
picked up the hoe. “It’s the dance they’re
havin’ in there t’night that’s done it, I
bet,” he decided. “Aw, well, I alwus told
ol’ Andrews what’d come o’ sendin’ young
Bob t’ collige. They ain’t never the same
after, if y’ ask me.” “Maybe it’s just ’s
well Andrews never lived t’ see how things
’s turned out. He put a lot inter that
farm o’ his, an’ it’s a damn shame Bob
don’t take things more serious like, now
he’s come inter the place.” Dave glanced
up through the maize stalks. “Aw, I dunno.
Dad,” ,he protested. “Bob’s crops is
lookin’ pretty good, and his fences is in
order an’ all that, and the stock cared
for.” “Yair? Don’t you go lettin’ that
fool y’ none, Dave,” replied the old bloke.
“There’s Bob gorn inter town dancin’ half
the night, ain’t he? An’ if y’ remember
he did the same thing last Chris’mas at
that party they ’ad. Yair, an’ when the
war ended he dropped everything an’
was in town all night an’ most o’ the nex’
day. No, Dave,” he concluded solemnly,
“y’ can’t tell me a place’s the same when
a bloke goes gallivantin’ around like that
t’ all the amoozements.”
* * * «
“Wippegong”: Amongst the useful
little fowl that twitter their modest way
about the bush, one of the commonest
families is the tomtits, or thombills—the
genus Acanthiza ; but they are hard to
separate in the field, for while the general
family resemblance is easily spotted, the
differences that identify the various
members are often fine. Now that
they’re nesting, however, your chances
“May I—just for a moment?”
are better. The common yellowtail, the
brightest of the midgets, is the only one
to put a dummy cup on top of his domed
nest, so you have that as a guide should
yoiT confuse him with the bufftail. This
chap will also show a yellow rump when
flushed, but it’s duller, and his song is
softer; so final confirmation of his
identity is a fine, grassy nest wedged into
the rough texture of an ironbark, or
woven into the crack where a branch has
split —hence his other name, bark-tit. A
further development of this habit awaits
you farther west, where the chestnut-
tailed fellow finds a little low hollow and
builds right inside ; but you’ll know him
without that, for his rusty rudder could
not be confused with the yellows. An-
other that might worry you is yellow
underneath, and as he spends most of his
time fairly high you’ll see more of this
than of his olive-green back ; watch for
him building in the top of a thick ti-tree,
and you’ll know he’s the little thornbill
—runt of the tribe, with quite the smallest
nest, which, like all the others, is domed
with a side entrance;. Don’t confine your
gaze to the scrub-tops, however, for apart
from getting a crick in the neck you’re
likely to miss the brown brother, for he
nests in the bracken or low tangled
creeper or in the; butt of a bush ; no out-
standing feature about him except that
low-placed nest. Got ’em now? If in
doubt, just find their nests. That’s all.
* * * *
“Gerry”; Fire without matches? Hans
Bertram mentions an ingenious method
in his book, Flight to Hell. It was while
he and his aircraftsman, Klausmann, were
lost on the barren north coast of Aus-
tralia for 53 days in 1932 that they
devised an efficient tinder-box.
Component parts were the starter-
magneto of the motor (of their seaplane
Atlantis), two litres of petrol, a bottle and
some wadding. They filled an empty
medicine-bottle with wadding in which a
few drops of petrol were shaken. The
two cables of the magneto were stuck in
the neck of the bottle, the magneto
twisted a time or two, and a spark be-
tween the ends of the cables set fire to
the wadding. This tinder-box would last
for years, the petrol being used in such
minute quantities.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: In Echuca we ran into
one of those perpetually-sneering coves
who never know when to stop. After he
sized-up Mat’s attitude to women he didn’t
give the big fellow any peace. “Here’s
Mat, cornin’ t’ shout for the ladies,” he’d
sneer in a bar; or, if someone asked
after Mat, he’d snigger. “Aw, he’s enter-
tainin’ a bunch o’ girls.” It went on for
a couple of days; then we struck him in
a poker game. Sneerer had dropped out,
and Mat was betting like he had them.
Sneerer said, “Mat’s a cert t’ have three
ladies, he’s always got girls around him.”
Mat put down his cards and looked at
him. “You ever meet Joe, in the boot-
maker’s shop in Prahran?” he asked.
“No, why?” “You oughter, you an’ him
’d get on well.” There was a bit of a
laugh at this, which annoyed the sneerer.
“Who’s this ruddy Joe?” he demanded.
“White cockatoo,” Mat replied. “Always
says the same thing over an’ over. Don’t
get his neck wrung because he’s a
parrot. You ain’t got the same excuse,
mate.” It was all that was required from
Mat’s point of view.
* * * *
“S.E.”: From the top rail Ted watched
Jim’s dog trying to yard a bunch of bel-
ligerent crossbreds. “What makes sheep
chase a dog, Jim?” he asked interestedly.
“ ’Cos the dog chases them, I s’pose,”
answered the old bloke. “So do you chase
’em,” Ted argued, “but the woollies don’t
go for you.” “Eh? No ; but I’m too
big to pull on,” said Jim. “It’s the size
does it.” Ted eyed the three-year-old
who was waddling after the jumbucks
with a stick. “Can’t be,” he persisted.
“The kid there is no bigger than your
collie, and they don’t mind him scooting
them.” Jim turned to watch as a big
jumbuck meekly answered a blow from
the youngster, then, spotting the mong,
lowered her head in a savage charge;
“That’s right,” he agreed slowly. “Ain’t
never thought about it before. Reckon
then, it must be somethin’ a dog done t’
their fambly some time, an’ they’re still
chewin’ over it. Gripes, now y’ mention
it,” he decided, “I hope nobody ever
starts preachin’ that love an’ forgiveness
theory t’ animals.”
• * * •
“Blime”: Bruiser was riding along the
road when he struck Sam’s home-made
cart parked to one side, while the owner
labored at the trunk of a tree that had
fallen across the way. As the saw cut
“It distinctly said no formal dress!”
through, Sam got up and measured the
width of the cart, marked the same
distance on the trunk and began another
cut. Fifteen minutes later he was trying
to lead the nag through the opening.
“Huh, Won’t go through,” he grunted,
eyeing the axle of the cart. “Have to
take orf another six inches.” He grabbed
the saw once more. “Hey, why don’t
you cut it a couple of yards further up?”
Bruiser asked him, “It’s thinner up
further. And, anyway, the whole place
’d be clear then for other traffic.”
Sam went on sawing. “Hey, Sam,”
Bruiser bawled at him, and repeated his
query. “Gripes, whatcha think I am?”
Sam stood up and eyed him resentfully.
“That cart o’ mine’s pretty narrer, and
long’s I c’n get it through that’s all I
care about, see? I’m a busy man, I tell
y'. I ain’t got no time t’ be messin’
around ’ere clearin’ the road f’r all the
flamin’ vehicles in the district!”
* * * *
“Flight”: To see the brolga at its
pantomimic best, watch it as it tries to
lead a mounted man away from its nest.
The bird will stumble and fall, limp and
use one leg as a crutch ; gasp and wheeze,
totter in agony and fall to the ground
as if in great distress; sob with a gurgle
in the throat and yelp in short spasms
of pain. Then, when it judges that the
deluded human has been fooled to the
point of dismounting to catch it, the
fowl will rise on strong wings, call in
triumph, and soar away.
♦ * * *
“Nota Bene”; For days Jack had been
furtively feeling his biceps; then, appar-
ently making up his mind, sent away a
letter. In due course the mail-truck left a
parcel for him at the dam-sinker’s camp.
With a slightly self-conscious air Jack
produced a slim volume and a set of
spring muscle-developers. Selecting a
solid-looking post outside the tent, he
carefully fixed the contraption to it and,
after studying the book, began on the
first exercises. Each morning at daybreak
he’d rush out, grab the developers
and lunge mightily for 10 minutes or
more. Then one night a couple of the
fellows lifted the post, sawed it almost
through a couple of inches below ground-
level and lowered it again. At daybreak
Jack bounced out, grabbed his developers,
and at his first hefty lunge he sprawled
on the ground with the post on top of
him. Recovering, he gave a grin of pride,
threw his chest out, felt his biceps and
shouted to the grinning mob; “ ’Struth!
Are these developers any plum-pud, eh?”
* * * *
“Yakcam”: The station homestead was
on the bank of a big lagoon and the
whole place was infested with the big
green frogs that seem to spend most of
their lives indoors. One night the boss’s
wife stood on one and dropped a pile
of her best plates, so next morning Sandy
and I were told off to make a thorough
clean-up. Sandy, bent on proving his
homing theory, came to light with a
bright idea. We wouldn’t kill the frogs
—a messy job at best —but deport them,
marking each one and its corresponding
hiding-place with a piece of distinctive
colored thread. We put ’em in a sugar-
bag and tossed them into the back of the
utility, which we borrowed from the boss
for the weekend. Three miles from the
homestead we dumped the lot in the big
swamp that skirts the roadside and con-
tinued in pursuit of the particular pleasure
on which we were bent. On Monday
morning we arrived home in time for
breakfast, but the frogs were ahead of
us. Every one was in its right place ;
every bit of thread matched. Sandy
reckoned that when he lifted up
the boss’s wedding photo the big frog
with the red armband positively leered
at him.
As to the uncanny instinct
for location as well as the unremitting
toil of the termite (B. 28/9/’49), here is
an instance. My dray was discarded
and put in an old shed, the wheels on
sheet-iron, the shafts tied up with wire.
The wreckers found a way over the sheet-
iron, made their connecting link right
around the iron tyre across a piece of
board carelessly left on top, and so into
the body of the dray. My experience is
that no wooden building is safe for long
unless the stumps are of concrete and
several feet above ground-level. I now
build my out-buildings with old bore-
casing for posts cemented in the ground
and a small portion dropped inside just
to be sure that passage is blocked.
* * ♦ ♦
“W.P.T.”: Many of the notorious
killers in the bush that are today referred
to as dingoes are actually wild dogs with
little or no dingo blood in them. The
late Jimmy Tyson was responsible for
one of the worst dingo-crosses. He im-
ported Russian wolf-hounds to hunt
dingoes on his Cunnamulla (Q.) property.
Instead, they went bush and mated with
the dingoes, the resulting progeny being
worse killers than the pure-bred dingoes.
Snow-dogs were also imported into the
Mt. Kosciusko region for use as sled-
dogs, but some of these escaped to sire
or whelp some “bad” dogs. Similarly,
Newfoundland dogs belonging to Ben
Boyd escaped from his Twofold Bay
(N.S.W.) settlement, and the descendants
of the Newfoundland-dingo cross have
done great damage around Eden,
♦ * * *
“Blackie”: A Tassie farmer takes the
bun for ingenuity and quick thinking. He
accidentally fed poisoned wheat to half
a dozen chooks. When realisation came
he took out his pocket-knife and, after
cutting their throats, he emptied their
crops and deftly stitched the incisions up
with cotton. The chooks roosted as usual
that night.
* * * *
“Ellabin”: Lassie, the dog that
wandered over Scotland to return home,
had an easy job compared with a kelpie
I owned. On a long sheep-droving trip
down the Birdsville (Q.)-Marree (S.A.)
cattle-track, Roamer, sore-footed, was
left for thq, horse-tailer to bring along
from our camp between New Well and
Koppramanna, on lower Cooper’s Creek,
Roamer, however, wouldn’t follow
horses. I rode back from dinner-camp,
but the kelpie had already started on the
long journey homewards. In unfenced
country alive with dingoes, and with the
bores 25 to 30 miles apart, I regarded
Roamer as a goner. The trip over, I
returned to Queensland to find that the
kelpie was alive and well at Boulia (n.w,-
Queensland), having been picked up by
some returning cattle-drovers at Kooka-
bindika waterhole on the Georgina, about
200 miles from where he started the trek
back. As we had originally set out
from Gilliat, on the Townsville-Mt. Isa
railway-line, it does not seem feasible
that the kelpie could have returned over
100 miles across South Australia and
three parts of the way across Queensland
alone, yet he managed the first and worst
part of that journey before being picked
up.
THE DROVER’S LAMENT.
I’ve been outback a-drovin’ for fifty year or
more > . , , ,
Up an' down an’ over, by ev’ry well an bore;
But now the drovin’s finished —excuse me while
I swear —
They’ve started takin’ cattle ’cross the continent
by air!
There weren’t a decent stock-route when I
started as a kid;
Only brigalow and lancewood, in which the
cattle hid.
Through Mitchell-grass or spimfex—l’d take
you anywhere —
But what use is experience when bullocks go
by air?
The drover’s day is over, he’s passin’ from
our ken;
I’ll take on bound’ry-ridin’ or retire, like other
men,
An’ dream about the camps I’ve ’ad, from
Burketown to Lake Eyre,
An’ maybe watch the planes a-flyin’ bullocks
south by air.
I’ve met a preacher-chap or two, when sober
or well oiled,
An’ many yarns we’ve ’ad together while the
billy boiled,
An’ out beneath the glistenin’ stars we’ve often
joined in prayer—
I wish I’d prayed they’d never take the bullocks
down by air!
Oh, wrap me in me stockwhip, boys, an’ in
me blankets tight,
An’ set a quartpot at me head, an’ bury me at
night,
An’ never let them know me grave, or they’ll
dig me out o’ there
An’ send my moanin’ ghost a-drovin’ cattle
in the air!
N.S.W.
W.T.


safeguarding Estate Investments
demands this specialised \nowledge
so?
•t>
/
■FAMILIARITY with legal requirements,
investment values, taxation and property
details is a paramount responsibility of the
Executor or Trustee charged with the duty of
administering an estate involving commercial
or pastoral interests. Such knowledge is far
beyond individual capacity.
The Union Trustee Company is well qualified
by nearly 65 years’ experience to accept this
responsibility, and will act either jointly with,
or in place of, those who seek relief from such
onerous tasks. Charges are moderate; service
is most comprehensive.
You are invited to call —or write for a copy of “Important
Facts Concerning Wills, Executors, Trustees."
the union trustee
COMPANY OF
AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1885
333 Collins St, Melbourne; 2 O’Connell St,Sydney; 398-402 Queen St,Brisbane; and at Albury,Townsville,Toowoomba and Rockhampton
The only Trustee company having offices each with its own Board of Directors and management in three States Victoria, New South Wales and Queensland
the WILD CAT
COLUMN
Adelaide Steamship Co.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit.* Dividend. serves. serves.
1940.. 182,815 64 p.C.= 151,134 31,681 579,709
1941.. 180,066 6i„ ~ 151,134 28,932 608,641
1942.. 191,252 6$ „ ~ 151,134 40,118 648,759
1943.. 190,938 6i „ „ 151,134 39,804 688,663
1944.. 191,103 6} „ ~151,134 39,969 728,632
1946.. 191,287 6* „ ~151,134 40,153 768,685
1946.. 169,499 6 „ „ 139,508 29,991 798,676
1947.. 169,456 6 „ „ 139,507 29,949 828,625
1948.. 154,451 6 „ „ 139,507 14,944 843,569
1949.. 218,331 5 „ „ 116,257 102,074 945,643
* Includes additions to reserves.
Maxwell Gavin Anderson, who had sat
at this co.’s board-table for 47 years and
at the head of it for the last 34 of them,
died in March last. Knight Howard W.
Lloyd, who sat at the table with him for
over 20 years, and who is also chairman
of the Bank of Adelaide, has stepped into
the vacant chair.
Under the edicts and actions of a
Socialist Government, and the disruptive
tactics of Communist-led seamen and
waterside-workers, it has become difficult
to squeeze any profit out of Australian
coastal shipping today. Moreover, the
future of the trade is obscure. The co.’s
fleet (six passenger and 20 cargo vessels),
which is the largest on the coast, didn't
contribute anything to last term’s net
earnings, which’were derived from sub-
sidiary and ancillary interests. These bulk
large among the assets, and include sub-
stantial holdings in J. and A. Brown and
Abermain-Seaham Collieries, A.N.A.,
A.W.A., Newstead Wharves and Steve-
doring Co. (Brisbane), Port Adelaide
Steam Laundry (which looks after the
fleet’s linen) and a fine wad of Govern-
ment securities and cash (£1,594,067).
Latest addition to the portfolio is
•119,700 £1 shares in the newly-formed
North Australian Cement, Ltd. (Towns-
ville), a half-million-pound proposition in
which Queensland Lime and Cement
(Brisbane) and Goliath Portland Cement
(Tas.) are also interested. It will be a
couple of years or more before produc-
tion begins ; meanwhile shareholders are
to get bond interest (3£ p.c.) on subscribed
capital.
After making unspecified provision for
depreciation and other charges, and main-
taining the fleet in good order, there was
a sharp drop of £23,120 in last term’s de-
clared profit:
1947. 1948. 1949.
Profit claimed .. £139,456 £139,451 £116,331
Added reserves—
Insurance .. .. 20,000 15,000 42,000
Replacements, etc. .. 10,000 • 60,000
Profit per table .. £169,456 £154,451 £218,331
The year’s additions to the insurance and
replacement etc., reserves came mainly
from capital profit (amount unstated) on
sale of two of the older cargo ships. The
profit claimed in the p. and 1. account,
which might have been a little better than
stated, was 5 p.c. on capital as against
6 p.c. for each of the two preceding years.
The div. was lowered from 6 p.c. to 5 p.c.
The co.’s two big inter-State passenger
ships, Manunda and Manoora, took up
the running again (after reconditioning)
in April, 1948, and August, 1949, respec-
tively. Now the co. is negotiating with
the Government for construction of a
new 6000-ton freighter. Under the
Federal Shipping Act, 1949, the Govern-
ment will order and pay for this vessel,
which will be constructed in Australian
yards to standard design, and then sell it
to the co. at a figure approximating the
cost of a similar vessel built in Britain.
The difference, provided it does not exceed
25 p.c. of Australian cost, will represent
the subsidy provided by the Government,
which, of course, means the taxpayer.
Greatest threat to privately-owned ship-
ping will come from the new Government
line set up under the Act. It is exempt
from taxation, and promises to perpetuate
the economically chaotic conditions in the
industry which have been brought about
in no small measure by a politically-
controlled Shipping Board, first created
to meet the exigencies of war. Meanwhile
privately-owned coastal shipping, whose
earnings remain subject to taxation, will
operate under licence and controlled
freight and passenger rates. The scales
are thus heavily weighted against private
enterprise from the start, and the way is
open for an unscrupulous Government to
nationalise the industry on the cheap—by
first making it unprofitable. The economic
danger in the journey to the New
Jerusalem to which the Socialists would
lead us is that of perishing in the desert
on the way.
The attraction of the co.’s scrip as an
investment lies in its subsidiary and an-
cillary interests, and in what the board
might ultimately do with the big holding
of Government securities and cash:
1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital .. £2,325,135 £2,325,135 £2,325,135
Sundry creditors.. 291,996 347,349 343,008
Provident fund .. 119,713 126,382 142,073
Freeholds, etc. .. 171,186 181,966 182,426
Steamers, etc. . . 8125,887 841,658 818,713
Shares in subsidiaries 186,500 136,500 136,506
Stocks ' and stores 101,154 112,009 144,368
Book debts and in-
vestments .. 871,223 840,166 849,530
Consols, cash, etc. 1,529,273 1,599,889 1,694,067
Sale of the two cargo vessels already
referred to shows up in a contraction of
£22,945 in steamers, etc., and growth of
£94,178 in Government securities and
cash.
Noting all this, and hoping that condi-
tions in the trade will improve, the market
prices the pound shares at 28s. 6d.
(31s. 3d. a year ago), giving a return of
3.5 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis. Net tangible
cover (book-value) is 28s.
Tooheys, Ltd. (Sydney)
Net To Re- Rc-
July, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1940. . 170,213 9 p.c. = 155,843 1 n n,n aj, oqo
Staff fund, £5OOO .. ..j 9,370 943,38
1941.. 135,208 9 p.c. = 155.925 922.665
1942.. 143,649 8 „ „ 138,600 5,049 927,714
1943 siafl 4 ffi £ B 5OOO ". 138 ’ 600 } 5,584 933,298
1944 siaff 4 ?und! £ B S P OO6 = .. 138 ’ 600 } 6,357 939,655
1945 siaff 5 S ifsOOO = . 488,660 1 9.658 949,313
1946 wS £5OO6 = . 138 ’ 6 ?? j 12,426 961,739
1947.. 158,973 8 p.c. = 138,600 \
Staff, fund, £5OOO .. ..1 15 > 373 977,112
1948. . 149,164 8 p.c. = 138,600 1 , QS „
Staff fund, £5OOO .. .. J 5 > 564 982,676
1949.. 150,107 8 p.c. = 138,600 V ? o«q 1R o
Staff fund, £5OOO .. . .J 6,507 5' 89 . 1 ® 3
For over a decade steadily expanding
beer consumption, and therefore growth
in brewery turnover, has more than taken
care of the persistent rise in costs. But
in the absence of a lift in the selling-price
of beer costs now look like winning the
race.
For the year to June 30 last output of
beer in Australia increased by over 17
p.c., reaching 148 million gallons. And
Tooheys, one of the two largest breweries
in N. S. Wales, shared in the increase.
The leap in the co.’s gross earnings was
£331,292, or 15.6 p.c. —that was after
maintaining plant in a high state of effi-
ciency and charging the cost against
current earnings, allowing £35,175 (up
£1365) for depreciation and something for
bad and doubtful debts, etc.:
1945. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Gross , £ £ £ £
earnings 1,633,833 2,255,352 2,120,638 2,451,930
Exes. .. 1,480,576 2,096,379 1,971,474 2,301,823
153,257 158,973 149,164 150,107
Exes, gobbled up all but £943 of the
gain, leaving the net result a wink over
8.6 p.c. on capital as against 8.6, 9.1,
9, 8.8, 8.6 and 8.6 p.c. back to 1943.
The div, was kept at 8 p.c., and has been
since a run of 9 p.c, distributions was
interrupted in 1942. On shareholders’
funds (capital and reserves combined) the
year’s profit was a moderate 5.5 p.c.
With turnover at, or near, its peak and
costs still advancing briskly (another 2s.
a week, making the addition 10s. over the
last 12 months, goes on to the basic wage
from November 1, raising it to £6 12s. a
week in Sydney), the brewers have asked
for an extra 2d. a gallon on the selling-
price of bulk beer and an extra 6d. a
dozen for bottled beer in order to
cushion the jolt. The N. S. Wales Prices
Commissioner has refused the request,
without giving reasons —perhaps the
political implications associated with a lift
in the selling-price of beer (the Federal
Government goes to the polls about six
weeks hence) have outweighed purely
financial considerations. Not long ago
Victorian brewers were granted an in-
crease of 2d. a gallon (sd. was asked for)
in the selling-price of bulk beer.
On the demand side, a buoyant
national income, “full” employment at
high and rising wage-rates, and growth
of population augur well for the
immediate outlook. The trouble is
that wages are an element of costs as
well as income. And as the effects of
wage-lifts snowball through the economy
the cost of production, transport and
everything else keeps on rising until the
last position becomes worse than the first.
Indeed, the spiral has now become top-
heavy, and unless something in the nature
of a standstill is soon achieved, the ulti-
mate effect upon employment, wages and
the standard of living will be disastrous.
Without asking the public for more,
the brewer’s gross margin could be
widened if an extravagant Government
took less. Excise alone (4s. 7d. a gallon)
accounts for about 73 p.c. of gross receipts
from bulk beer, leaving only ss. sd. in the
pound for the brevier, who carries all
the risks and is taxed again on profits ;
and there is further bleeding of share-
holders on the profits that are distributed.
Last term a reduction of £181,162 in
debtors’ balances was accompanied by a
growth of £219,901 in the cash holding
and of £58,091 in stocks, which include
a lot of high-priced brewing ingredients:
1945. 1947. 1948. 1949.'
£££>£>
Paid capital 1,732,500 1,732,500 1,732,500 1,732,500
Creditors!.. 318,084 379,274 335,798 374,966
Loans* .. 804,973 807,988 804,973 804,453
Breweries,
hotels, etc. 3,182,849 3,002,473 2,996,790 2,945,115
Stocks .. 137,123 152,616 197,174 255,265
Book debts 505,315 547,542 591,764 410,602
Cash, etc. 13,107 227,767 103,742 323,643
Shareholdings,
etc 4 •. 40,777 40,777 40,777 40,777
* Advances by subsidiaries, t Includes provision for
taxation, etc. * Shares in and advances to subsidiary.
Excluding shares in and loans to and
from the finance subsidiary,- which are
domestic matters, the more-or-less liquid
surplus (£609,544) was £52,662 stronger
than at the previous balance.
Confident that the price-control
authority will soon accede to the reason-
able requests of the trade, and hoping for
a lift in the div. or other benefits later
on, the market prices the f.-p. 16s. shares
at 365. as against 38s. a year ago. The
immediate return at 365. is 3.5 p.c. on an
8 p.c. div. basis. Visibly the cover is
255, Id, in net tangibles.
Farmer and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
t Dividends N
IstPrefs. 2ndPrefs. Ord.
July, Profit. 6 p.c. 7 p.c. 7Jp.c. Keserves.
£ £> £ £ £
1942.. 93,115 12,000 28,000 30,000 1 qqq aplq
To staff fund, £5OOO .. ..j
1943.. 92,718 12,000 28,000 30,000 1 , i = 771
To staff fund, £5OOO .. ..) ’
8J p.c.
1944.. 100,389 12,000 28,000 35,000 1
To staff fund, £5OOO ~ . .J 4dt> ’ ibU
10 p.c.
1945.. 102,397 12,000 28,000 40,000 1 ...
To staff fund, £5OOO .. ..( 45d ’ 55 '
1946.. 112,224 12,000 28,000 40,000 I , an
To staff fund, £5OOO .. \
1947.. 114,902 12,000 28,000 40,000) . InfiSQ
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. J
From inner reserves, £272,640 783,323
From tax provision, £37,100 .. 1
War damage receipts, £3316
1948.. 210,844 12,000 28,000 40,000 i 869,583
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 1
To stock reserve, £75,000 ~J
1949.. 189,790 12,000 28,000 40,0001
To stock reserve, £50,000 .. .. }- 919,373
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. ..J
Expanding turnover and contracting net
earnings are an unholy combination. The
niggers in the woodpile are steeply-rising
operating costs and an official cut in gross
margins, which took place half-way
through the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts. Chairman George Wright
sums up the position in this way:
The present system of control, which
eliminates any flexibility in trading and
prevents the averaging of prices, is based
on the fallacious assumption that, while
shorter hours and increased wages and
other costs automatically increase the cost
of goods, the costs associated with distribu-
tion remain stationary. Nothing could be
further from the truth. The cost of dis-
tribution has risen for precisely the same
reason as the costs of production. Wages
alone in the retail trade are 225. per week
higher for males and 17s. per week for
females this year than they were last year.
It is a delusion to imagine that control
of distributive margins brings about any
worth-while reduction in selling-prices.
Indeed, with supply overtaking demand
in many lines of consumer goods. State
control of prices has ceased to provide
any real benefit to consumers, producers
or distributors, and should be abolished.
From now on it will tend to destroy the
benefits of competitive trading, and, in the
long run, will lead to reduction of staffs
and growth of unemployment.
This co., a front-ranker among the big
and fashionable department stores, has
£1,000,000 of capital to feed —200,000
6 p.c. first and 400,000 7 p.c. second prefs.
and 400,000 ords.—which has the sup-
port and assistance of £919,373 of free
reserves, as well as a special stock reserve
of £300,000. After allowing £28,996
(down £406) for depreciation and £128,000
(down £5000) for taxation, there was a
slip of £21,054 in last term’s net earnings,
reducing the figure to £189,790. That
was equal to 8.5 p.c, on, shareholders'’
funds (capital and reserves, including the
stock reserve, combined), as against 9.9
p.c, for the previous term, when the sud-
den leap in net earnings was due to a
change in the method of presenting the
accounts.
Owing to the nature of the capital struc-
ture and the size of reserves, the £189,790
was enough to pay the pref. divs. (£40,000)
and show 37.4 p.c. on ord. capital as
against 50.2 p.c, in 1948. The div. was
kept at 10 p.c. and, of the £109,790 (57.8
p.c. of the year’s profit) that remained,
£lO,OOO was sent to the staff fund and
£50,000 to the special stock reserve, rais-
ing it to 4s, 3d. in the £ of the total
inventory figure.
The strengthening of the special stock
reserve amounts to no more than prudent
commercial practice, notwithstanding that
recent currency reshuffles left the Aus-
tralian-sterling exchange rate as it was.
The year’s net growth of £162,981 in
stocks was due largely to price rises:
1946. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Capital .. 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000
Mortgage . . 225,000 175,000 175,000 350,000
, r * } *585,994 *681,695 38 9 ;994
Staff hind 55,600 60,541 70,600 77,574
Freehold and
plant .. 1,207,486 1,197,856 1,248,598 1,304,864
Stock .. 513,564 749,939 947,114 1,110,095
Book debts 143,685 271,059 305,979 324,773
Cash and in-
vestments 502,640 229,065 130,031 145,702
* Includes provision for contingencies.
Further brightening of the store and im-
provement of shopping facilities show up
in the addition of £56,266 to fixed assets,
and the growth in credit buying, which
is still below pre-war level, added £18,794
to debtors’ balances. To meet the year’s
outlay the mortgage was increased by
£175,000 and the amount coming to
sundry creditors by £26,955. Share-
holders’ funds amount to 69.6 p.c. of total
assets.
The market expresses its confidence in
the future of the business by pricing the
ords. at 475. 9d. (495. a year ago), giving
a return of 4.2 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
The first prefs. at 30s. and the seconds
at 325. yield 4 p.c. and 4.3 p.c. respec-
tively. Including the stock reserve, net
tangible cover is £ll Is. lid. firsts, £5
os. lid. seconds and 80s. lid. ords.


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
62 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO TEE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
SMOKERS
PIPE TOBACCOS THAT ARE
BLENDED TO GIVE
SATISFACTION TO ALL.
HOUSE OF MURPHY. A blend of
the highest grade of leaf to give a
cool smoke of satisfaction that men
prefer. 22/- per lb. Posted.
A.A.A. HII/LTOP. A blend of
Australian, American and African.
20/- per lb. Posted.
WINSTON BEADY RUBBED
CIGARETTE TOBACCO. Greatly
improved by better blending 0 f
mature leaf. 24/- per lb. Posted.
Special Quotes to Retailers for lots 20lb.
weight or over.
Write to: Cash Order Dept.,
Hillman Trading Co M
Commercial Road, Brisbane.
Pottage paid on Cash with order.
Postage extra on C.O.D. Orders.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —Advi.
Union Bank
of Australia Limited
{Incorporated in England)
is the
traditional policy
of the Union idanb
to yive
personal service to
every customer.
OF
At/?
ESTABLISHED 1837
'Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand
si’o~ Here’s Your ROLLS
A LIGHT FOR LIFE!
The coveted Rolls, depend-
able automatic lighter with its
own built-in windguard, its ex-
tra fuel capacity and spar©
flint recess. Five year guaran-
tee. In chromium 39/6, also
in rhodium and gold.
Distributed by
WILCOX MOFFLIN LTD.
V
| ROLLS TO WO^
r NOW LETS
HAVE A S?AGI7CS
m
m
. /'
h;-'
r:
lw A
v
/ '
///./u ••
. </\
-HorcJ
*'/
When you call for Brandy
make sure you say
scenes
BRANDY
“THE EMPIRE CHAMPIONt*
i&
y&fDY;
Distilled ond Bottled by ANGOVES LTD., SoutK Australia
A. Goninan & Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividend, serves, serves.
£ p.c. £ £ £
1943.. 28,284 10 17,926 10,3 58 1 00,82 5
1944.. 28,380 1 0 17,926 1 0,4 5 4 111,27 9
1945.. 28,485 10 17,926 10,55 9 121,83 8
1946.. 29,058 10 17,926 11,132 1 32,97 0
1947.. 28,983 1 0 17,926 11,05 7 144,02 7
1948.. 31,644 1 0 17,926 13,7 18 157,7 45
1949.. 84,770 10 17,926 16,844 174,5 8 9
Reserves capitalised, £19,918.. 154,671
On Sept. 22 last this old-
established iron-foundry and
manufacturing - and - construc-
tional-engineering business capi-
talised £19,918 of reserves in a
one-for-nine bonus-scrip issue, a
special plant-replacement re-
serve, built up during the war
years but no longer required for
its original object, being used
for the purpose. The gift—it
will restore 16.6 p.c. of the capi-
tal jettisoned in 1935—-lifted
paid capital to £199,180 in
331,966 shares of 12s. each. On
that lot 10 p.c. will call for
£19,918, or £14,852 less profit
than was claimed last term, and
would have been an easy matter
during any of the last dozen
years.
Like others in the engineering
trades, the co. was hit hard dur-
ing the big slump in the early
1930’5, and Bs. (£119,508) was
slashed off each pound share to
rub out a p. and 1. debit of like
amount, which had accumulated
partly because of trading losses
and partly because of heavy
writing-down of fixed assets.
The cut proved adequate, and,
after an eight-year drought,
shareholders got back into the
picture with 2\ p.c. in 1936, fol-
lowed by 5 p.c., two lots of 8
p.c. and then a steady 10 p.c.,
with widening margins, for the
decade to the close of last
accounts.
Certainly the engineering
trades have expanded rapidly
under the shelter and impetus of
war and post-war conditions,
which have created a distorted
pattern of industrial develop-
ment and introduced unwelcome
elements of instability into the
economy. These evils have their
roots in inflation, over-full em-
ployment and underproduction,
especially of coal and steel, for
which the pernicious tactics of
Communist-led labor organisa-
tions are mainly responsible.
Now that a large part of the
backlog in demand for new
plant and replacements has been
overtaken, and since overseas
manufacturers will soon be look-
ing for new markets, the outlook
in the engineering trades is one of
steadily increasing competition.
Goninans, which has strong
connections with B.H.P. and
other big industrialists, and in
which Howard Smith holds
about 20 p.c. of the issued capi-
tal, is well equipped, technically
and otherwise, for the struggle.
Orders on hand are sufficient to
“provide continuous work for
some years ahead,” the chairman
says. To maintain output on
some of its contracts, the co.
has had to import steel sections
and steel castings. Under
licence from three overseas
manufacturers—two English and
one Danish —the co. makes
hydraulic presses, and plant and
equipment for the rubber, plastic
and cement industries, and there
is a strong demand for these
products. At the moment nego-
tiations are in hand to extend
further the co.’s overseas connec-
tions and range of its output.
There is nothing uncomfort-
able about the finances:
1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital £179,262 £179,262 £179,262
Overdraft .. 59,195 48,372 44,956
Sundry
creditors* 66,952 75,187 78,938
Freehold and
plant . . 128,176 134,697 130,160
Shares subsidy 45,000 45,000 45,000
Stock, etc. 182,283 183,668 183,025
Debtors . . 87,948 100,042 122,513
Investments &
cash . . 14,992 5,522 6,010
* Includes provision for taxation.
Assets are known to be worth
a lot more than their book-vlue.
Cash and investments and
debtors’ balances alone more
than cover outside liabilities. In-
cluding stocks, etc. —the etcetera
is work in progress—the more-
or-less liquid surplus (£187,654)
was £21,381 stronger than at the
previous balance. The sub-
sidiary, Engineers and Colliery
Supplies Co. (paid capital
£45,000), netted £9186 last term,
and has net tangibles £25,568 in
excess of its paid capital.
The market, which likes the
co.’s prospects, prices the f.-p.
12s. shares to return 4.4 p.c. at
275. 3d. Net tangible cover is
visibly 235. a share.
Broken Hill Ore-body
Exploratory drilling by Zinc
Corp. and New Broken Hill
Consolidated provides interest
ing and valuable additions to
the overall picture of the famous
Broken Hill lode, which is re-
markable for both its richness
and its continuity. It outcrops
in the centre of the field, in
B.H.P.’s old leases, and plunges
to the north and to the south.
The central portion has been
worked out. The northward
plunge is being stoped and ex-
plored by North Broken Hill at
depth—a new haulage and
downcast shaft is to be sunk to
a depth of 4200 ft. and is to be
fitted with winding equipment
designed for an ultimate depth
of 5200 ft. The southern exten-
sion is being worked by B.H.
South, Zinc Corp. and New
B.H. in that order.
After passing through Zinc
Corp.’s leases the plunge of the
lodes flattens and the upper zinc
ore-zone increases considerably
in size. In New B.H.’s leases
the ore-bodies fall into three
major divisions; (1) narrow
zincy lodes between Nos. 6 and
12 levels, averaging about 6.5
p.c. lead, 1.30 z, silver and
14.6 p.c, zinc; (2) broad zincy
lodes between Nos. 12 and 16
levels, carrying about 4 p.c.
lead, loz. silver and 12 p.c.
zinc ; (3) broad lead lodes be-
low No. 16 level (2200 ft.) and
continuing to a depth yet to be
proved. On Nos. 17 and 18
levels there is an estimated
375,000 tons ore averaging 14.9
p.c. lead, 3.40 z. silver and 8.8
p.c. zinc. It is to the opening up
of the lower levels, which are
the largest and richest part of
N.B.H.’s mine, that development
work is being mainly directed.
Australian Development, N.L.,
the Adelaide co. (paid capital
£127,500 in 600,000 ss. shares
paid to 4s. 3d. each) which took
over the Noble’s Knob, Rising
Sun and other leases at Tennant
Creek a year or so ago, will pay
a maiden div. of Is. a share on
November 1. The purchase
price of the mine (£70,000) has
already been met out of gold
won. Up to June last co. had
crushed 3694 tons for 61380 z.
gold, with about 9dwt. in the
tailings. A zone of high en-
richment has been met at shal-
low depth, some pockets yielding
20oz. per ton and more, Hopes
are that good values will con-
tinue to a depth of at least 300 ft.,
and that over 100,000 tons of
ounce or better material will be-
come available between this level
and the surface. Co.’s scrip
stands at 325. in the market as
against 21s. 9d. four months ago.
* * * *
111-fated Blue Spec Gold,
N.L., near Nullagine on the far-
away Pilbara field (W.A.), is in
process of being resuscitated,
thanks to the lift in the price of
gold. Bewick Moreing and Co.
has prepared another report on
the property for inclusion in a
prospectus to be issued presently.
The revived co. is to offer
400,000 new ss. shares at 2s. a
nibble and the balance as re-
quired. Present shareholders are
to get one new ss. share f.-p. for
every three shares held, plus the
right to subscribe for one new
ss. share for every six now held.
The old co, came to grief be-
cause of plant and treatment
difficulties, high costs, which were
bumped up by the burden of
transport, including a 400-mile
haul to and from Meekatharra,
and a heavy load of debt, chiefly
£220,000 coming to the Federal
Government, which is said
to be prepared to accept
£40,000 in full settlement. Cer-
tainly the increased price of
gold and the high figure at which
antimony stands (£SI4I 13s. 4d.
per ton crude, equal to £AI77 Is.
Bd.) have provided the co. with
fresh opportunities ; many hope
that the new co. will not make
the mistake of installing plant (a
lot of new equipment is needed)
ahead of development, which
had fallen badly into arrears to-
ward the end. Average of run-
of-mine ore in the shallow work-
ings seems to be around 14dwt.
gold and 2 p.c. antimony.
* * * *
If further investigation con-
firms promising preliminary
prospecting results, Australian
Gold Development, the Mel-
bourne prospecting and holding
concern whose shareholders are
largely interested in Australian
Development, will float a new
co. to operate its Hammerjack
option at Tennant Creek. The
Hammerjack is on the same line
of east-west lode as the Eldorado
and Rising Sun, but west of the
main north-south road ; the other
two are to the east of it. The
co.’s £lO shares paid to £8 10s.
recently fetched £42.


P
Have you looked over
your will lately?
IF you have not revised your Will to meet
to-day’s conditions, the consequences may
be serious for someone who depends on
you. Your responsibility to that someone
is too important to justify delaying until
some “to-morrow” that may never come.
Why not have a con-
fidential talk with one
of our Senior Officers
on the subject of the
appointment of the
Company as your
Executor and Trustee
—alone or jointly with
a relative or friend.
He will help you to
provide for the efficient
and economical settle-
ment of your Estate,
also for its efficient
management thereafter.
The final step of having
your Solicitor re-draw
your Will, should then
be a simple matter.
If you prefer, send
first, for a copy of the
booklet “Your Execu-
tor and Trustee”. It
explains the services
offered by the Company
—and the charges.
a
$
DIRECTORS;
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C.
(Chairman);
B. B. KNOX;
ALLEN C. LEWIS;
Hon. 1. P. ABBOTT,
D. B. LYSAGHT;
SAMUEL HORDERN;
H. V. DOUGLASS.
Managing Director.
A. G. ABMYTAGE, Manager
•
TRUST & AGENCY FUNDS
UNDER ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £68,000,000
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OF
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES & OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES. AT JFACGA WAGGA, TAMWORTH and ORANGE
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Consols and Inflation
The announcement of another
increase in the basic wage last
week, taking the capital-cities
average up to 1295. and the
Sydney figure to 1325., brings
into relief the position of the
long-term investor in Common-
wealth Government bonds, who
gets no cost-of-living compensa-
tion for the depreciation in the
buying-power of money. The
rise in the basic wage since just
before the last war has been 50s.
a week (from 795.), or about 63
p.c. Since the end of the war
the increase has been 335., which
represents a jump of 34} p.c. on
the 965. a week ruling in August,
1945.
If this 34} p.c. be accepted as
the rise in the cost of living since
the end of the war (as it includes
a “prosperity” loading of 7s. a
week it may be argued that the
cost-of-living increase has been
smaller; but against that is the
contention that the cost-index
on which the basic wage is calcu-
lated is no longer representative,
and that a household has to pay
a great deal more to exist than
the official index would indi-
cate), it illustrates the extent to
which the purchasing-power of
all Government-issued paper, in-
cluding pound-notes and Gov-
ernment stock, has fallen.
Going back further (to just
before the war), the Statistician’s
official figure for the increase in
Sydney living costs over the past
10 years is 56 p.c. This, as
already pointed out, would be
an understatement of the actual
position from a family’s point of
view, A housewife would con-
tend, and probably rightly, that
costs had gone up a great deal
more than that. Rents are almost
invariably higher than the
accepted official figures.
way you look at it,
the value of money and money
assets has dropped by at least
a third since 1939, and most of
the fall has occurred since 1945.
In fact, the decline in purchas-
ing-power and savings-value has
been heavier over the past two
years than at any time since the
war began. Inflation creates
more inflation, and the process
is now well into the snowball
stage. Under Chifley “controls”
and State “controls” the rise jin
living costs continues at a
greatef rate than ever, whereas
in Canada and the United States,
where price-controls have either
been relaxed or abandoned, a
definite check to rising living
costs has occurred. In Sep-
tember Canada’s living costs
were only about 2 p.c. higher
than a year before. In Australia
the corresponding rise was about
8 p.c. In September Canada’s
costs were lower than in August.
All over the world the war
brought higher living costs. But
the war has now been over for
four years, and it is about time
any Government skilled in eco-
nomic management was able to
show a steadying in internal costs
of production, upon which the
cost of living is based. In Aus-
tralia the ratio of wages paid
to production achieved continues
to be lopsided. On the American
continent, and even in Great
Britain, output per man per hour
is now greater than before the
war. Not so in Australia’s case.
With all costs in Australia so
much higher than before the
war, or since war ended, and
with the position daily growing
worse, it becomes clear that the
investor in Government bonds
has received a very raw deal.
The thrifty and the patriotic are
no favorites of the Chifley Gov-
ernment., They exist in the
Socialist set-up simply to be ex-
ploited as required. “Labor”
has never been fond of the
“bondholder,” but even under
Socialism he has come to be re-
garded as necessary, even if an
evil when he has to be paid his
interest.
In Australia, as in other parts
of the world, the rate of interest
on Government loans has been
cut down severely since 1939.
The long-term loans in the Com-
monwealth at present carry only
3i p.c., with 2 p.c. on the short-
term. One result of these low
rates of interest has been that
"Do you mean to say you haven't ANY cottages or flats?"
very little public support from
individuals has been given to
public borrowing operations.
Loans have been filled by calling
upon the savings banks, other
banks and insurance offices to
contribute heavily.
How much longer can these
low interest rates be maintained?
They are altogether too flatter-
ing to the real credit position of
the Government. But if they
should rise—at present the mar-
ket for Consols is kept above
par by Commonwealth Bank
support—-there would be a fall
in the price of existing securities
on the market, especially in the
long-term issues. And the bond-
holder who was forced to sell his
security before its maturity date
would incur a loss on his in-
vestment in addition to that suf-
fered by inflation’s effects.
In Britain there are already
market fears of increased security
rates. They may or may not be
justified. The Bulletin would
feel that the position in Australia
as regards holders of Govern-
ment securities would be much
sounder if there was evidence
that the present Government had
any regard for thrifty, saving
people. Up till now there has
been no such evidence.
Whakatane Board Mills
One of Maoriland’s lusty
young survivors of Labor-
Socialist tax-fleecing, gloomy
forebodings, doleful forecasts
and wishful thinking is Whaka-
tane Board Mills, Ltd., a million-
pound co. with 10,000 share-
holders on both sides of the
Tasman; but the struggle isn’t
over yet. Thirteen years ago
one-eyed Socialists out to con-
demn all industry not national-
ised and to belittle all private
enterprise told Whakatane
directors their cardboard-mill
scheme would be “definitely un-
economic in operation,” and that
Maoriland’s market was “not
sufficiently large for economic
production”; but the co., after
battling for years against
obstacles, under its old name of
Whakatane Paper Miffs, Ltd.,
reached a 5 p.c. div. basis last
year when the new label was
put up. In the uphill climb,
£439,130 has been paid in taxes
to satisfy greedy Socialist
demands, and £650,702 has gone
in freights to N.Z. State rail-
ways.
G. H. Mackley, chairman of
the co.. Nationalist member of
Parliament, and formerly
general-manager of M.L. Rail-
ways, slated Socialists for their
tax-squeezing: “Imposition of a
tax which absorbs 11s. 6d, out
of every £1 of net profit at a
time when, to quote the 1949
Budget, ‘economic activity is at
a level higher than ever before,’
and after several years of post-
war experience, cannot be justi-
fied, The policy and intention
of the Government are clear. If
in a year of unprecedented pros-
perity it finds itself unable to cut
taxes, then the probability of any
relief in future years is a for-
lorn hope. High taxation must
inevitably tend to increase costs,
destroy incentive and discourage
development and expansion.”
The sleeping partner which
takes no risks and doesn’t
put a penny into industry
but collects the lion’s share
of profits is today planning
to sink a fortune in a
pulp-and-paper-mill project at
Murupara, not far from Whaka-
tane, and, according to Yanks
who have been called in to
advise, total outlay might run
into £25 million. In this out-
size scheme there’s the cost of
converting Tauranga into a deep-
sea port, 40 miles of railway to
be laid to link up with the -port,
70 miles of power-lines to hook-
up with the nearest hydroelectric
source and a new town to be
built. Private enterprise can’t
think in umpteen millions in
M.L.’s limited industrial field,
but if a nationalised scheme is
pushed ahead on this colossal
scale and doesn’t pay its way,
taxpayers and shareholders,
many of them abroad, who are
unwilling guarantors, will have
to foot the bill, and will be the
ultimate losers.
Last week the Australian
sharemarkets maintained a firm
tone, with minor movements up
and down. The general trend
was upward, probably influenced
to some extent by the outstand-
ing strength of Wall-street, which
recorded the highest prices for
1949. B.H.P. was one of the
Australian market leaders to
take a slightly downward turn—
a first instalment becomes due
on the big hew issue. The call
will amount to over £1,000,000.
The decline in B.H.P. from the
recent highest level reached was
about Is. 3d. a share on the
fully-paids, and about a shilling
on the contribs. But A.C.I. was
strong in the market and so was
C.S.R. Generally speaking, in-
dustry is running into more diffi-
cult trading conditions because
of higher costs, though in some
cases, as with sugar, relief is on
the way from the Prices people.
Concerns handling less essential
products manufactured at above
world-parity are not in such a
happy position ; competition and
slacker demand in some cases
compel them to maintain old
prices in spite of higher costs.
Newspaper publishers have been
hit. Advertising is harder to
get, and publishing costs are
much higher. Among the heavy
industries, B.H.P. has stated that
since the disastrous coal strike
it has been able to maintain a
higher level of output than was
possible on the coal supplies
available before the strike.


Message from Macquarie
“Persevere, Gentlemen, in your exertions to
foster this Infant Establishment and be
assured it shall ever have my warmest support
and patronage and that the time is not far
distant when the Bank will on its own merits
obtain a public confidence, and gradually
flourish, to the Credit and Benefit of the
Proprietors and the Country at large”.
This was the message which Governor Lachlan
Macquarie sent to the directors of the first public
company in Australia the Bank of New South
Wales —at their inaugural meeting on April Bth.
1817.
Macquarie’s confidence was well-placed. His
vision has been more than realized. To-day, in
Australia alone, customers have more than £220
million on deposit with the “Wales”, while the
Bank’s advances here reach nearly £lOO million.
This shows the extent to which Macquarie’s Bank
has flourished “to the benefit of the country at large”.
Consult and use
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
THE PEOPLE’S BANK SINCE 1817
Incorporated in New South Wales with limited liability
A4930D
SYDNEY COUNTY COUNCIL
ELECTRICITY UNDERTAKING
£3's
PER CENT.
PER ANNUM
CASH AND CONVERSION
LOAN
£1.250.000
ISSUED AT PAR CURRENCY 15 YEARS
OPENS FRIDAY, 38th OCTOBER
CASH SUBSCRIPTIONS are invited for the New Loan
which opens on Friday, 28th October, and closes on or before 15th
November, 1949.
Subscriptions will be received for £5O or any multiple thereof and, if
desired, may be paid in instalments free of exchange in terms of the
prospectus.
Application will be made for listing on the Stock Exchanges in
Australia, thus making holdings in the Loan readily marketable.
Interest on Cash Subscriptions which are allotted will accrue from date
of investment and be payable free of exchange in terms of the
prospectus.
Secured by the Council’s income, which will approximate £7,000,000
in 1949,
AN AUTHORISED TRUSTEE INVESTMENT
IN N.S.W.
Holders of Stock and Debentures in Loan “W,” maturing on the 15th
November, 1949, may convert their holdings to securities in the New
Loan “WH.”
APPLY EARLY TO AVOID DISAPPOINTMENT
Prospectus and application forms are obtainable at all offices of the
COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA
the head office and branches of the Sydney County Council, or from
Members of recognised Australian Stock Exchanges.
Loan underwritten by lan Potter & Co., Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
LONDON AIRMAIL
From Herbert Holman
The Government has said
there will be no general election
this year. There are still some
doubters, especially since Cripps
said there would be no devalu-
ation. Some think a “snap”
election before Christmas still
possible, and the line of argu-
ment for this would seem to
have developed from a front-
page article in the Socialist
“Tribune.” Miss Jennie Lee,
M.P. (Mrs. Aneurin Bevan), sits
on the editorial board of this
weekly, which has Mr. Michael
Foot, M.P. (a member of the
Socialist party’s national execu-
tive), as joint editor. “Tribune”
purports to reflect the views of
the Left-wing, and is considered
sometimes to have spoken with
a voice of greater power than
its own.
Disregarding this speculation,
the average Briton, who
merely wants to get down to the
increasingly hard task of mak-
ing ends meet, would be excited
if he could wake up one morn-
ing and read that the election
date had been fixed. For it
would be a relief to look for-
ward to a day when it was all
over and done with. People are
growing more and more im-
patient of political jockeying.
The arguments for and against
a dissolution of Parliament are
many, but it is plain that the
decision to go to the polls will
depend primarily upon two
factors, each of which cancels
the other out: to gain a political
advantage or to try to avert a
political reversal. It will not,
unfortunately, be because the
condition of the nation demands
it.
Going Down, Going Up?
It may fairly be said that,
since his devaluation broadcast
and his speech in defence of
fixed sterling. Sir Stafford Cripps
has lost the confidence of the
bulk of those who, while dis-
agreeing with his political views,
respected his moral and intellec-
tual force. The two personali-
ties of his political make-up
would seem to have become dis-
tinctly separated: the realist
who was believed to hold out
against blind doctrine and poli-
tical chicanery is now less
evident than the dutiful party
man. His broadcast statements
must have caused more loud
“Oh’s!” of annoyance and ex-
pressions of sudden incredulity
than any since Mr. Shinwell
fluffed the fuel crisis in 1947.
If, as yet, there has been no
rocketing of prices, all the signs
point to a higher cost of living.
Public confidence in the Chan-
cellor’s affirmation that, apart
from an increase in the price of
bread, there would seem to be
little material change for some
months is not reflected in the
shops. A mild rush to buy
clothes, furniture, linen and
other of the more expensive
household goods is reported. In
certain trades manufacturers are
withholding price-lists. And
there are indications that wage
claims may be pressed more
urgently—on the grounds that
earlier reticence would be nulli-
fied by the adverse results of de-
valuation !
Mr. Aneurin Sevan’s clash
with Mr. Churchill in Parliament
and the tenor of his speech, with
its familiar emphasis on class-
warfare and ranting vilification
of the Opposition, has kindled a
furnace of conjecture that is only
a little less depressing than the
reminder that the age of atomic
warfare is not yet past. His
firebrand vituperation was the
only speech to be acclaimed with
loud cheering by the Labor
claque on the back benches.
We can clearly expect the
Socialist line for the coming
election to follow the theme of
this outburst. The old bogy of
unemployment will be trotted
out and made to look menac-
ingly sinister. Class-warfare
will be intensified. Shoddy
emotional appeals will be in-
yoked to bring about Labor
solidarity—and to divide further
the country when it needs so
desperately to be united.
Some understandable alarm
springs from the realisation that
the out-and-outers fervently
acclaim Mr. Bevan, to whom
personal ambition clings like
bark to a tree. He may well be
gazing upwards. Which is all
the more reason why an early
general election might avert
calamity.
The God Companions
Some years ago two distin-
guished Englishmen were sitting
over pints of beer at Chelten-
ham during the festival. One,
the dramatist, had the germ of
an idea which he expounded to
the other, the composer. There-
upon they sketched out the
framework of an opera. The
idea—that the gods should go
a-busking and come into their
own for one single night every
midsummer —was one that obvi-
ously had great operatic poten-
tial, especially to a composer as
independent and unstereotyped
as Mr. Arthur Bliss and to a
dramatist as experimental and
music-loving as Mr, J, B. Priest-
ley.
Their opera “The Olympians”
has now emerged from its long
incubation and a collaboration
that was painstaking, unselfish
and undisturbed by tempera-
mental issues. Just how far is
it successful as an opera—that is
to say, as a theatrical presenta-
tion? This opinion gives a
qualified success only, although
that was certainly not the view
of the professed and professional
musicians who beamed with
ecstatic appreciation in the
foyers at Covent Garden. The
suggestion that at times the work
might seem (to the partly-
musical, that is) diffused, tedious
and liable to cause suppressed
titters was not well received. It
was rather as if some Philistine
had affirmed that the Royal
Opera House should revert to its
war-time use as a palace of jive.
The plot centres upon the
guests at an inn in the South of
France in 1836. M. le Cure
prevails upon the local bigwig,
a tight-fisted moneybags, to en-
gage a tatterdemalion troupe of
strolling players, stranded and in
debt, to perform at the betrothal
of his young daughter, Made-
leine, to an aged and unworthy
nobleman. Madeleine falls in
love with Hector, a poet-
dramatist, who is passing
through the town. Instead of
performing, the players reassume
their Olympian roles and live,
dramatically, if rather obviously,
up to character. Mercury
dances and casts spells. Diana
invokes the moon. Venus rises
from the courtyard loam and is
statuesquely alluring. Bacchus
is decadent and maudlin over a
giant cask of wine. Jupiter is
majestic and terrible, even to a
thunderclap.
The gods are restored to
motley. M. le Cur£ brings re-
formation to the moneybags and
wedlock to the lovers. And the
broken-down troupe, trundling
their cheap “props” on a hand-
cart, hobble draggletailed into
the midsummer noon.
The first act is slow to develop.
The second is no more than a
spectacular pageant, with music
of tremendous power and ver-
satility, with abundant dramatic
effects but little real drama. And
the tender and heart-stirring be-
ginning of the third suggests an
excellent intimate opera, without
the celestials. To remove the
gods would not only deprive the
work of its most stirring music
but would also mean the loss of
the original theme. And that
would be full circle. The lib-
retto does no more than suggest
poetry.
At all events, the lavish com-
ponents, both creative and exe-
cutive, seem to add up to less
than was expected. The music,
with its wide range of mood and
emotion and sheer technical skill,
should survive, if only in sub-
stantial part.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
With due pomp and ceremony Sir
Dallas Brooks was inaugurated as
Governor of Victoria in the Legislative
Council Chamber of Parliament House.
A blaze of color was centred in the scarlet
robes of the wigged judges of the
Supreme Court, and there was more color
in the uniform of Sir Dallas Brooks and
his aides and in the pretty pastel frocks
worn by women guests. First to curtsy
to the new Governor after the ceremony
was his wife, Lady Brooks, and this was
followed by one from daughter Jeanette,
and then they stood with Sir Dallas as
the guests were presented.
The frock worn by the new Gov-
ernor’s lady was of navy silk romaine,
the skirt medium-length, the sleeves
three-quarter-length, the neckline hav-
ing a vest and collar of white
pique. Her small cloche straw hat
had the brim lined with white, and at
one side was set a cluster of lily-of-the-
valley. A smoke-grey fox cape and
elbow-length gloves completed her en-
semble. Jeanette Brooks wore a blue-
grey wool jacket-dress with a sunray-
pleated skirt and short-fitting jacket. Her
small bonnet-hat of off-white felt featured
a folded brim, flat against the crown,
and was finished with brown ribbon
bows. Her accessories were brown, her
cape of lynx-fur.
Accompanying her husband. Sir
Edmund Herring, who since Sir
Winston Dugan’s departure had been
Lieut.-Governor, was Lady Herring. The
blue flowers on her black ensemble
matched those on the side of her hat.
Mrs. T. Hollway’s tailored suit of grey
tweed was worn with a paler grey blouse
and a matching felt cloche hat with pale-
grey feathers set high at one side. The
Speaker’s wife, Lady Maltby, had oyster-
grey embroidery on the bodice of her
black crepe romaine frock, and her felt
hat was oyster-grey. Mrs. F. H. Wright’s
hyacinth-blue ensemble was worn with a
matching hat. Mrs. L. J. McConnan
combined a London-tan wool jacket-suit
and a natural-straw hat trimmed with
taffeta in a deeper shade. Mrs. R. G.
Menzies wore a wool suit in pale-rose
and a hat in a deeper shade of rose. A
grey tailored suit was the choice of Mrs.
John Cain. A slim-fitting suit of pale-
grey was worn by Mrs, W. S. Kent-
Hughes with a matching felt beret. With
Archbishop Booth was Mrs. Booth in a
grey suit and a navy hat trimmed with a
rouleau bow of white grosgrain. Mrs.
A. H. Dennett wore a black straw hat
trimmed with black satin bows with her
black ensemble. Mrs. John Donne’s lilac
wool suit was worn with a small pink gros-
grain toque. Mrs. E. R. Reynolds added
a small yellow hat to her belted suit of
deep-olive-green woof A navy suit faintly
striped with white and matched by a
small navy beret was worn by the Lady
Mayoress, Mrs. J. S. Disney,
Wives of the councillors gathered in
the Lady Mayoress’s reception-rooms to
meet the new Governor, his wife,
daughter and members of his entourage
before going into the civic reception.
With her black ensemble, the skirt
featuring the new floating panel, the
Lady Mayoress wore a shell-pink cloche
hat of grosgrain with a cluster of deeper
pink roses at one side. Lady Brooks’s
lightweight wool frock was in Patou pink ;
the skirt had unpressed pleats and shawl
revers on the bodice. Her felt hat toned
exactly with her frock, and was folded
back off the face and pierced with a
black quill. Jeanette Brooks was in a
full-skirted coat of moss-green wool and
a small hibiscus-red felt hat. Her friend,
Patricia Edge, chose a cigar-brown wool
dress with narrow revers of matching
taffeta which was matched by the band
in the skirt; her small cloche hat of
mignonette-green had a cluster of yellow
roses at one side.
Mrs. P. L. Coleman’s navy taffeta
redingote was worn over a grey
taffeta frock; her navy tulle hat was
trimmed with grey roses. Mrs. O. J.
Nilsen wore with her wool suit in
lavender-blue a grey hat which flew
matching blue feathers. Mrs. S. Baillieu
Myer had white plumage trimming the
black hat worn with her black ensemble.
Lady Heinze’s navy coat had a coachman
collar; her hat was made of blue-and-
white striped taffeta. Lady Lowe wore
a black hat with her black ensemble.
Mrs. C. Thomson’s cinnamon-brown
suit was trimmed with bands of leopard
fur; touches of the same adorned her
small matching hat. Pink ostrich feathers
embellished the black hat Mrs. H. Tatnall
wore with her black ensemble. An aqua-
blue frock worn under a black coat and
with a black beret comprised Mrs. A. A.
Lord’s outfit. Mrs. T. J. Ryan wore navy
accessories with her pale-grey frock.
This picture was taken as Lady Brooks
drove to Parliament House for her hus-
band’s inauguration. The new Governor’s
lady has a ready smile, a friendly manner,
vivacity, and she is an elegant dresser.
Daughter Jeanette is very like her mother.
and the Brooks family, as the Governor
described them, are sure of a happy life
at Government House.
At “Much Ado About Nothing,” with
which the Stratford-upon-Avon players
opened their Australian season, Mrs.
Tom Hollway wore a gown in her favo-
rite shade of blue. The gown of black
taffeta worn by Lady Gillan, wife of the
British Council representative, was em-
broidered with paillettes. Mrs. Frank
Tail’s strapless gown of cinnamon-brown
tulle was worn with a matching tulle
scarf; Mrs. Arthur Tail’s taffetas were
cyclamen-toned. Lady Syme’s gown of
French crepe was in a deep-fuchsia tone.
Her daughter, Mrs. Peter Condon, com-
bined a pastel-pink organdie skirt, the
tiny scarlet flowers which patterned it
matching the taffeta bodice. A mandarin
coat in rich, glowing tones covered the
black gown worn by Mrs. Gordon Black-
burn. Over a bouffant gown of pale-beige
organza inset with matching lace Mrs.
Everard Baillieu wore a taffeta stole
striped in pastel tones. Mrs. Simon
Fraser’s gown of white satin was pat-
terned in florals. Detachable sleeves of
black velvet were a feature of the black
velvet gown worn by Mrs. Paddy Moran.
Reta Findlay’s bouffant gown of heavy
brocade was in deep-jewel tones on a
black ground; her sari was of gold-
sequinned tulle. A long flowing coat of
apple-green quilted satin was worn by
Mrs. Aubrey Gibson over a black crepe
romaine gown.
Flags, bunting, flowers and foliage
made gay the drill hall of H.M.A.S. Lons-
dale when the first naval member, Rear-
Admiral J. A. Collins, and Mrs. Collins,
were host and hostess to 600 guests. Re-
ceiving the guests with Rear-Admiral and
Mrs. Collins were Rear-Admiral J. A. S.
Eccles, R.N., Flag Officer Commanding
the Australian Fleet, and Capt. D. Ham-
mersle>k Johnston, R.N., Senior Officer
of the New Zealand Squadron. Mrs. Col-
lins wore a slim-fitting frock of black
silk romaine, the deep, square neck and
cuffs faced with black silk grosgrain;
her aqua-blue felt cloche hat was finished
at one side with black feathers. Mrs.
R. W. Spraggatt, wife of the Governor’s
private secretary, wore a grey, black and
white hand-screened silk frock which had
a tiered skirt and was worn with a deep-
grey felt hat carrying feathers in a lighter
grey. The bodice of Mrs. Adrian Perry’s
navy taffeta frock had the plunging neck-
line and a ballerina collar ; gold and pearl
embroideries trimmed her small matching
cloche hat. Mrs. Frank Gillespie, wife
of the U.S. Army Air Force Attache,
was in sulphur-toned tweeds; white
daisies trimmed her small black straw
cloche hat.
Mrs. Rufus Ramey, wife of Colonel
Ramey, U.S. Army Attache, wore a navy
jacket-suit and small pink straw hat with
lilac and pink roses for trimming. A
black faille suit and small black bonnet
comprised Mrs. H. W. Mermagen’s outfit.
Lady Hyde’s black frock was contrasted
with a wide-brimmed amber straw hat.
Mrs. Crosbie Hucks wore brown chif-
fons and a small flower-trimmed pink
hat. Dove-grey crepe platina foxes and a
small black hat made neat alliance for
Mrs. W. Seymour. Wife of the Second
Naval Member, Mrs. H. A. Showers,
chose a pale-blue ensemble and a flower-
trimmed hat. Mrs. H. Buchanan’s pink,
grey and white patterned frock was worn
with a white grosgrain cap.
From Sydney
Mrs. Arthur Davis, who organised it,
and the committee which aided and
abetted her, from the president, Pro-
fessor L. Wilkinson, onwards, must have
felt the glow of successful achievement at
the preview of the Art Treasures Exhibi-
tion. These, though international in char-
acter, have been gathered from Sydney
collectors. Set out in the rooms of four
floors of No. 5 Elizabeth-street, they make
rich and varied show. Each room repre-
sents a different country in furniture,
curtains, china, glassware and paintings.
The invitation preview was definitely an
occasion. Even the tired businessman
had arrayed himself in formals. Women
guests wore silks and satins, carried fans
and obviously delighted in the setting.
Against the dark woodwork of the
window-embrasures on the landings white
and pink azaleas bloomed, and facing the
climber, on the first landing, hung a
sampler giving outstanding dates of Queen
Victoria’s reign. Perhaps, for once, the
G. and S. song about the policeman’s lot
not being a happy one was wrong. For,
wandering up and down and round about,
the Force came to the party —in plain
clothes and in the uniform of their office.
It wouldn’t be wise to run risks with a
collection valued at over £lOO,OOO. The
exhibition, which opened last Wednesday,
has another week to go. And don’t miss
the silk paintings in the Chinese-room,
and the palm-size amber music-box com-
plete with bluebird singing. The latter
loaned by Wal Taylor.
Personal preferences were the English-
room, the Italian-room and third, the
American kitchen. In the English-room
Stanley Lipscomb, dressed in late 18th-
century costume, presided knowledgeably
over the Turners, the Gainsboroughs and
the cool, lovely Nasmyths on the walls,
the James II sconces over the fireplace,
the Chippendale and Sheraton tables, the
walnut Queen Anne settee, the Georgian
punch-bowls and tea-caddies, the ex-
quisite enamel inkwell with its little com-
partment for the sand.
The Countess Pietra Santa Sauvaigue,
serene and elegant in a long-trained frock
of black moire, was in charge of the
Italian-room. From the Madonna before
which white roses were set to the finely-
tempered dagger, the room was one in
which some old Doge of Venice might
have sat. Tall, hand-painted Venetian
goblets, a hand-bell of ruby glass, a great
wide-seated chair in Florentine leather,,
a slender-necked, embossed silver wine-
jug of Cellini workmanship, told of a lost
way of life. After all, even to gangsters,
modern civilisation doesn’t give much
extra. The revolver with its silencer is
no more potent, no more secret a weapon
of death than the dagger, and it is not
nearly so ornamental. The Governor,
Lieut.-General Northcott, declared the
exhibition open last Wednesday.
Mrs. Orsen Nielsen, who arranged the
New England kitchen with its gleaming
copperware and lovely old dresser, was
present at the opening with Mr. Orsen
Nielsen. Her apple-green crepes were
caped in mink. Mrs. Arthur Davis wore a
white Honiton lace fichu (said to have be-
longed to Lady Hamilton) with her black
taffeta frock. The wife of Greece’s
Consul-General wore white satin touched
with blue, her country’s colors. With her
husband, Dr. Vrisakis, she later attended
the Grecian ball at the Trocadero.
Bob Stephen’s bidding to a late-after-
noon party is still voted the most amusing
invitation of Race Week:
I have been saving up some of Scotland’s
Best, and I thought maybe you might give
me the opportunity (by coming along on
October 7) to start saving it up all over
again, as from October 8.
The Strathaird and the Orcades brought
back a flight of homing-birds last week,
among them Mrs. Millard Hagon, the
lovely Countess of Kenmare and her
daughter the Hon. Patricia Cavendish.
The Countess has come to Australia on
a three-months’ visit to her mother, Mrs.
Charles Lindeman. Margaret Salenger is
another attractive Orcades arrival.
Margaret was welcomed at a family
dinner-party last Saturday in the home of
her parents, the Ernest Salengers, of
Killara.
General-manager of the Vacuum Oil
Company, Mr. L. Orchard, has sent out
invitations for a late-afternoon party in
honor of the finalists in the Australia-
wide Mobil Quest. The ballroom of the
Australia Hotel will be crowded with
music enthusiasts eager to congratulate
the winners on Wednesday, November 2.
A bird singing in a white lilac-tree with
surprise at the world’s freshness does not
make greater appeal than does French
singer Ninon Vallin. The frocks she
wears at her concerts, too, are a charm.
In particular there is one-dress of silver
lace made with a soft fullness in the skirt,
and a berthe of the lace about the
shoulders that gleams as though sifted
over with frost. The women in Miss
Vallin’s audience, too, very largely
French, have honored her by wearing
their prettiest evening frocks.
The roads of France, so well-known
to the resourceful Diggers of World War
I, were poplar-lined. There is a tall
poplar at the entrance to the roped-in
enclosure in Hyde Park where the Strath'
Art Group is making brave experiment
with an open-air art show. The Strath
Group is made up of ex-servicemen and
-women of World War II starting out
on the adventure of art. The poplar,
somehow, seemed significant last Thurs-
day morning when this corner of Hyde
Park, opposite Elizabeth-street, presented
the most animated scene in Sydney. Here
young men, coats off, and girls in bright
summer frocks were busy hanging the
pictures, painted on canvas, prepared and
then framed by themselves. They hung
them on hessian screens under the bright
sky. Secretary of the group, Stan de
Teliga, and Charles Doutney, who organ-
ised the show, gave helping hand all
around.
At a quarter past two, just as Charles
Lloyd Jones was about to make intro-
ductory speech, a hailstorm cracked over
the city. It was a prize display.
Mr. Lloyd Jones, however, stood under
the trees near by till the storm passed.
Other guests who had raced across
Elizabeth-street and sheltered under the
shop-awnings trooped back, and the show
was opened in fine style. The only other
speaker was Hal Missingham. Mrs.
Charles Lloyd Jones and Mrs. Douglas
Dundas were in the official group. So
was Mrs. Charles Doutney with baby
Irene Constance. Charles Lloyd Jones
bought two pictures: one by John
Coburn, one by Maurice Stubbs. The
committee felt triumphant. By four
o’clock 11 pictures had found eager pur-
chasers. There’s a lightheartedness about
the pictures. They are as hopeful as their
painters.
Anne McCauley, daughter of Air-Vice-
Marshal John McCauley and Mrs.
McCauley, recently announced her
engagement to Peter Garrison, formerly
of the A.1.F., and of Point Piper, and
now one of Melbourne’s young business-
men. This photograph of Anne is from
Norton Trevaire.
The Society of Women Writers is per-
sistently sleuthing £ s. d. for its Friendly
Fund. Entertainments planned for the
movement are Jean Carling’s Hallowe’en
party on October 30 in the Ballet and
Theatre Club. Jean has worked this up
lonehanded, and has put in long hours
at the Mitchell studying correct behavior
for the spirited occasion. Early in
December the Countess de Vilme-
Hautmont will produce an afternoon of
mixed drama and comedy in the 2GB
auditorium. Last week Mrs. Gladys
Lister gave a very successful novelty party
in her Vaucluse home. A week or two
previously Mrs. Mary Gaynor ran a
bridge-party and handed £ll to the fund.
Canada’s new High Commissioner in
Australia, Major-General L. R. LaFleche,
arrived in Sydney last week with Mrs. La-
Fleche, daughter Denyse, and young son
Jean. There are three other sons: Fran-
cois, Pierre and Paul. The first is study-
ing medicine at McGill University in
Canada, Pierre is at the Sorbonne in Paris,
and Paul is studying at the Royal Military
College, Canada. The family’s Australian
home will, of course, be in Canberra.
The family comes to Australia after a
stay in Greece, where Major-General
LaFleche was Canada’s Ambassador for
four years.
The committee of the Black and White
Ball is jubilant: the net profits of the ball
amount to £4530! The Royal Sydney
Industrial Blind Institution benefits.


e
O*
The new British-made Biroette Ball
Point Pen, complete with cap and clip
costs a mere 15/-. You’ll admire the
graceful lines of Biroette —a newcomer to
the Biro family. You’ll like it because
It’s so slender . . . fits neatly in your pocket
or handbag . . . and so light ... it
glides over the paper like thistle-down.
Biroette is available in four attractive colours,
black, grey, blue and maroon. The refills
are specially designed for long life. You
can buy as many as you want for 2/11 each.
Test the Biroette today , . . see how
effortlessly it writes.
At Stationers, Jewellers and Stores
'iAaeite
REFILLS 2/II EACH
Ask to see the Refutable Biro Minor. In 4 colours. Red,
Green, Blue, Black. The ink matches the cases. Pens, with
cap, 6/- each. Refills, all colours 3/9 % each.
Patent No. 122073 dated Dec. 8, 1943. Other patents pending.
BE2/16
k
ķ
Speed
Without
Fatigue
CANADA
ALASKA
CANADIAN PACIFIC „
Connecting Routes
CHINA
«
il
■
mm* m
AUSTRALIA
N(W IcAIAND
On Canadian Pacific’s
'All Red Route” to England
Fly to Vancouver, Canada from Sydney via Fiji and Honolulu
—on Canadian Pacific 4-engine, pressurised “Empress” air-
liners! Wonderful service meals! You sleep on land at night
with hotel room and meals at no extra cost at Fiji and Honolulu!
Choose the “All Red Route” from Australia to the United Kingdom.
Travel Canadian Pacific all the way air train steamship.
Travel air all the way Canadian Pacific Air Lines to Vancouver
connecting air lines to the United Kingdom.
Also fly Canadian Pacific Air Lines between Vancouver-Tokyo-
Hong Kong the shortest and fastest route from North America
to the Far East comfortable pressurised aircraft traditional
Canadian Pacific service.
For further details apply Canadian Pacific
Railway Company, or Union Steam Ship
Co. (General Agents), 21,J George St.,
Sydney, and SO William St., Mel-
bourne, or any authorised
Tourist Agency.
Ms**.
-
eif*
«• *
MmAIRMSUNES
“THE WINGS OF THE WORLD’S GREATEST TRAVEL SYSTEM”
Canadian Pacific Air Lines Limited Incorporated in Canada
SUNDRY SHOWS
MUCH ADOING.
“Much Ado About Nothing,”
largely by John Gielgud, abetted
by the Shakspeare Memorial
Theatre Co., opened at Mel-
bourne His Majesty’s in sump-
tuous costumes; with the archi-
tecture of Messina being pushed
about on ball-bearings; and
scenes being telescoped into one
another by the ingenious Mr.
Gielgud to provide a continuous
entertainment, so swiftly and
neatly dovetailed that elisions
and omissions would be hardly
noticed even by the best Shak-
spearean scholars.
As for the content, it was ad-
mirably and intelligently ren-
dered, and, thanks to the pro-
ducer, it was easier to watch the
play than it is to read it.
Thanks also to the actors and
their delightful diction it was
also possible to differentiate be-
tween one character and another
instead of them being all lumped
together in terms of a conven-
tion. The wit, the underlying
directness of Elizabethan draw-
ing-room conversation, some-
times called bawdy, and the
occasional flashes of great
thought, not as frequent as in
some of the plays, were given
with passion, and there was
genuine excitement in the scene
where Claudio repudiates his
bride at the altar on the strength
of rumor.
Dogberry was magnificently
done by George Rose, who made
the watch scenes a masterpiece
of comic satire. Anthony
Quayle was clean, neat, quick
and humorous as Benedick, the
predestined husband. The un-
mar ri e d shrew of Diana
Wynyard was deft, light and
Pever left any doubt in the mind
that she mightn’t come good in
the upshot. Clement McCallin
as Don John, the bastard, Cecil
Winter as governor of Messina.
Laurence Payne as Claudio and
Pat Sandys as Hero were all
passionately excited about the
particular bees they had in their
bonnets, and none of the co.
fell below a high standard.
Wilde Tame.
Like a ship full of color and
music Oscar Wilde’s “Salome”
in Dr, Raoul Cardamatis’s pro-
duction at Sydney Independent
rocks and dances on the water
between the mooring-buoys of
Herodias, representing the quin-
tessence of barbaric evil, and
Tigellinus, representing the civi-
lised and contemptuous Roman,
These two characters, played
by Gwen Sherwood and Leigh
O’Malley, are perfect, and Bryan
Neely’s John the Baptist, called
Jokanaan, weirdly emerging
from his culvert, is also all that
one could ask; but for all that
Dr. Cardamatis’s pretty ship
doesn’t really get anywhere. The
fault lies in the principals, John
Gould as Herod and Diana
Perryman as Salome, and not
in any incapacity in their acting
but in a misconception of the
characters.
John Gould’s robust and like-
able Herod, like a Roman from
Trimalchio’s feast, could be de-
fended from the references to
his lowly ancestry, yet you could
not possibly square it with his
career of murder and incest and
with his speech about his jewels
—which, if it was not just a
piece of superfluous fine-writing,
requires a character profoundly
and subtly sensual. When, at
the end, he orders Salome to be
killed, you should feel that he
does it out of jealousy, super-
stitious terror and cruelty; not
merely, as this performance in-
dicates, because he is a good
fellow at heart, genuinely sorry
for Jokanaan. What the part
needs is not Falstaff, but a
sinister darkness something like
Olivier’s Richard the Third.
Diana Perryman was admir-
ably in character —lustful, arro-
gant and murderous right
through the piece until after she
had demanded the Prophet’s
head; and then instead of play-
ing lust she played tenderness,
instead of playing a horrible
agony she played pathos.
Wilde’s play is a handful of
pretty images from the “Song
of Solomon” fortified by a touch
of blood-curdling evil; Salome
is worse than a, cannibal; but
this Salome, in the vital last 10
minutes, might almost have been
Juliet.
"Hellzapoppin."
Olsen and Johpson’s “Hellza-
poppin,” a strarige American
concoction, has taken up its
residence at the King’s, Mel-
bourne, and in the hope and ex-
pectation of finding a girl sitting
on its lap, of being called a rat
and a seducer by a man armed
with a revolver and being shot
at. The Bulletin went along to
the show. But nothing of this
sort happened, so it didn’t have
to sweep out like Premier Holl-
way.
The entertainment is composed
almost entirely of noise, in-
nuendo, crooning, looning, wise-
cracks and explosions which
occur backstage, on stage and in
the auditorium. Gorillas chase
girls in scanty clothing down the
aisles, negroes moan into the
mike, conspirators crop up in
stalls, circles, boxes and the next
seat and crown one another, and
the lights go out and snakes
crawl up the legs of the public,
such is the power of suggestion.
For those who find perennial
amusement in the spectacle of
judge, jury, counsel, witnesses,
defendant and policeman minus
trousers the bill provides value
in high measure.
He * * *
Any faults with Dion
Wheeler’s production of “Eden
End” for Brisbane Repertory
Theatre could be attributed to
author J. B. Priestley. Excellent
as Betty Ross and Coila Mc-
Cracken were in their portrayal
of jealous sisters towards the
climax, they were unable to
bring to life a dead first-act.
Similarly, Morton Smith and
Keith Howard were at their best
in a comic and realistic drunk
scene, but were let down at other
times by uninteresting patches in
the script.
The Deluge.
Three beards one after an-
other floating down Bligh-streel
on a light summer breeze, one
of them attached to somebody
remarkably like Max Meldrum
... a goblet of Venetian glass,
exquisitely decorated in gold and
green, from which Byron might
have drunk Teresa’s health . . .
the Snake Spirit dancing on a
slab of bark from Arnhem Land
. . . four glorious Dutch flower-
pieces—
So much flotsam, at least, is
preserved out of what must be
the most colossal flood of art in
Sydney’s history. As well as
the contemporary and Grosvenor
Galleries shows, reviewed here
last week, there are “Paint-
ings by Sydney Artists Abroad”
at the Macquarie Galleries; a
huge and crowded display of
International Art Treasures at
the Adult Deaf and Dumb So-
ciety building at No. 5 Eliza-
beth-street; a big collection of
aboriginal art from Arnhem
Land at David Jones’s Gallery;
and, finally, the flood has spilled
over into Hyde Park, where the
Strath group of ex-servicemen
and -women, trained under
C.R.T.S., are disporting on
screens under hessian awnings.
And, in keeping with the
spirit of the times, the
Riverside Home Science School,
which follows the admirable
practice of the other Home
Science schools in New South
Wales in buying Australian
paintings to hang on its already
profusely-decorated walls, held
during the week a Parents’ Day
at which the three guests of
honor were the artists Margaret
Coen, Isabel McKenzie and
Pixie O’Harris, after each of
whom the school has named a
House.
The Macquarie Galleries ex-
hibition is unremarkable. Several
of the artists are winners of
Travelling Scholarships, but they
are not showing particularly im-
portant paintings. A sleeping
child by Joy Ewart, a harshly-
powerful flowerpiece and land-
scape by Ena Joyce and a
zoological drawing by Douglas
Watson stand out from the
exhibition, which otherwise con-
sists mostly of streets and build-
ings looking much like every-
body else’s streets and buildings.
Streets and buildings, mostly
slums under the influence of
Sali Herman, are also pro-
minent at the Strath show
under the Hyde Park planes
and palm-trees, but the most
noticeable influence is that
of William Dobell, who must be
held remotely responsible for
sundry very fat nudes, some dis-
torted portraits, and even, in Sam
Davey’s “Boats, Neutral Bay,”
for a landscape in green-and-
white. This is all students’ work,
and, as far as one can judge, the
paintings which show the most
promise are Alan Waite’s “Men
in Green,” some of Alick Mc-
Kenzie’s stage backdrops, two
landscapes by J. Collins and two
by John Rigby, a couple of
watercolors by P. M. Sparkes
and Alan Waite, some boats'by
Jon Molvig and Gerrard Hirst’s
“Trees.”
The Arnhem Land Art, ex-
hibited by the Australian Na-
tional Research Council and the
Department of Anthropology,
Sydney University, and collected
by R. M. and Catherine Berndt,
is a Berndt offering that should
be seen by all and imitated by
none. Anthropologically it is
fascinating. Artistically it has
a charm of quiet color and de-
sign and, occasionally, as in the
Dance of the Snake Spirit, a
grace of movement. But primi-
tivism is so much overvalued
these days that it is always as
well to keep in mind that the
carvings of human figures in the
round such as Female Spirit
Kultana, the discovery of which
was something of an anthro-
pological bombshell, have pre-
cisely the artistic value of a
golliwog.
* * * *
Regarded as one of the fathers
of modernism in Melbourne,
William Frater is holding an ex-
hibition at George’s of his latest
pictures, one of which has
attracted the attention of the
National Gallery. What dis-
tinguishes Mr. Prater’s pictures
from his contemporaries, how-
ever, isn’t what his imitators
think. It is not the form or
the “organisation” or the
dynamic rhythm or any of those
sorts of things, but a certain
basic quality of observation
which the artist probably got
from Meldrum, who abhors the
modern movement. It is this
which gives his pictures the fresh-
ness and the effect of real light
which is seen in Such things as
“Nocturne.”
* * * *
Julius Wentcher, who last year
weighed in with a theory about
picture-making in which one
takes a focal point and erects
rectangles upon it, has been giv-
ing a fresh demonstration of the
efficacy of his geometrical notion
at the Melbourne Book Club'
Gallery. Horses, human beings
and the Crossing of the Red Sea
are worked into his Euclidean
dimension, and a rectangular St.
George on a rectangular steed is
seen sticking a lance into a very
rectangular dragon. The dis-
tressed maiden isn’t included,
possibly because she was fat and
her rotundity was too much for
Mr. Wentcher’s theory.


The EURASIAN
By Ethel Anderson
THERE is no Eurasian quarter in
Dinapore. There are, however,
several avenues of stucco villas, their
walls painted pink or a violent blue-
bag-blue, in which (the rents being
negligible) Eurasians live chock-a-block
with “poor whites” and Hindu babus,
humble people employed in minor de-
partments of the post-office and the rail-
way.
It is pleasant enough to drive through
these streets. The villas have gardens
surrounding them. Though their flower-
beds are weedy and seem never to be cul-
tivated, immense cathedral-like banyans
and feather-foliaged gold-mohrs shade
them. There are pomegranates and per-
simmons. Brilliant patches
of bougainvilleas overtop
thatched roofs fashioned
during the Dutch occupa-
tion which, contrary to all
likelihood, have withstood
the threat of fire for two
centuries. In every patch of
sunlight, too, red bouvardias,
a common shrub, attract
hosts of butterflies of the
same cheerful hue.
The contrast made by the
dark histories of the archaic
and elemental trees, and the
crimson splashes of the vivid
butterflies’ wings, at a time
when two dreams were parting, when the
English were preparing to leave India, was
symbolical, perhaps, of the Dinapore of
that day; the murder of British soldiers
by Indians was a common crime. Troops
stationed there were not permitted to
wander singly outside cantonments.
Along the encircling river-bank just
below the Highland Regiment’s, mess, the
elephant-grey boles of the banyans form
an arcade where, between their vast
trunks, the flowing water is to be seen,
sometimes a mere trickle, a wandering
light, traversing yellow acres of sand.
Beyond this variable thread, either stacked
with growing sugarcane or quite sub-
merged, and aptly reflecting the season
for fecundity or immersion, lies an island
which exists or perishes according to the
whims of Mother Ganga; it vanishes as
the rains break or the snows melt on the
far-distant Himalayas.
[ T is usually thought that Eurasians live
1 frustrated, unhappy lives. Credited
with the vices of many races and the
virtues of none, they are pictured as being
snubbed by “whites” and Indians alike.
It is thought that they are keenly sensitive
about their racial taints and disabilities.
This is not always the case. The very
isolation in which many such families live
carries its own blessing, a bond which
unites their members in ties of deep affec-
tion and mutual admiration. They expend
on each other the consideration the world
denies them.
The traditions ordering such households
vary as their blood fluctuates between
British, Spanish, Portuguese, French and
Dutch origins on the paternal side, be-
tween the admixture of Mogul or Hindu
strains on the maternal. Many such
families bear noble names, the fathers,
almost invariably, having been Euro-
peans,
Claiming descent from the Portuguese
Admiral Manoel de Azevedo and a niece
of Nur Jehan (Jehangir’s famous wife),
who married Quasim Khan, a general of
great repute, one such family of mixed
Mogul and Iberian blood lived, at this
tragic date, in a thatched (an ancient
Dutch) bungalow, that stood first in a
row backing onto this leafy arcade, a
sequestered refuge, fanned by western
breezes off the river and partly sheltered
from the east winds ; an advantage, this,
for such winds were considered to bring
pestilence with them.
The husband and father of this family
was Don Manoel Jeronimo Henriques
William de Azevedo. He had quitted the
Goanese Army as a lieutenant at the age
of 56, the retiring age for that rank.
His pension was infinitesimally minute.
It barely sufficed to keep him, his wife,
Donna Elvira, his three cream-faced
daughters and his son, on the poorest of
Indian fare; dal, rice, pulse. Their
poverty was so extreme that, in their
tattered clothes, they were too proud to
venture out by daylight. At dusk they
might be seen sauntering one behind the
other through the trees, or peeping, with
fingers linked, over the wall of the High-
land mess, where, of a summer evening,
dining out of doors, the officers in their
handsome dress, and the pipes skirling as
the pipers marched round the table,
awakened romantic dreams in the gentle
hearts of each vivacious Miss de Azevedo.
It must not be thought that this re-
tirement from the world owing to their
indigence was, in this particular family,
as in others of aristocratic lineage,
either irksome or unusual. In communi-
ties where so many wives had come from
behind the purdah—from zenanas or
seraglios—it seemed to be, almost, the
natural way of life. Don
Manoel himself, following
the custom in his unit (a
tradition authorised by the
habits of his forefathers, the
Hidalgos, the conquerors of
the Luciads, the Lords of the
Seven Limbos), had joined
with five brother-subalterns
in purchasing the regimental
full-dress, and this very grand
uniform they wore, by
arrangement, in rotation. On
every occasion of high cere-
mony “absent from parade”
was, perforce, the lot of five
of the subscribers —a neces-
sity accepted by Authority. He was,
therefore, quite reconciled, indeed from
youth accustomed, to such sartorially-
dictated seclusion.
“DAP-PAH! Pap-pah!” his cream-
I faced daughters would implore,
clustering round their adored, their won-
derful, father. “Tell us of the lov-li-
nees of your best cer-ee-monials!
It is long, long since wee heard!”
In the dim light of noon, clouded for
them by the door’s dripping kuskus tat-
ties, the reeds splashed with water that
kept out the burning wind, some glint of
sun would penetrate to illumine the
bluish-whites of their flashing eyes.
Miranda, Clemenza and Khujasta (called
after that niece of Nur
Jehan’s, Quasim Khan’s wife),
who was the most “taking”
of the three pretty brunettes,
were nice children, well-
behaved, except for a habit
of sitting “four-kneed,” a
vulgar trick they had picked
up from their servant
Nedoo’s wife, and for which
their mother constantly re-
proved them.
In English they were quite
illiterate, confining them-
selves to a smattering of
Spanish or Goanese, and
some Persian, “the language
of the Court of Paradise,” which (later),
perhaps, it might be useful to *know.
Conversation, an interminable recounting
of past splendors, was their one recreation,
“Of pale-blue, yes, blue, the lightest
lotus-flower is not more blue, of pale-
blue face-cloth, Italian cloth, indeed!
Mind you! With silvair lace yes, a foot
deep on each cuff, and with crimson
plush, yes, I believe you! Crimson plush
with an inch-deep pile, to back the silvair
braid, and as for the silvair button!”
Their father’s recital would take the cus-
tomary turn.
Sometimes Donna Elvira herself, her
fine eyes flashing, her beautiful hands
used with dramatic restraint (“Wee of
noble blood, wee do not gesticulate like
poor countree-breds”) would relate the
horrifying adventure of Donna Lucrezia
with the Sandwip pirates (“So shee jumped
overboard, her son in her arms, and held
on to a chain, and when the pirates looked
over the side, shee called to her servan’
‘Set fire to me!' ”), or of Donna Teresa
da Silva, the Viceroy’s daughter’s escape
from the Inquisition (“And there was shee,
my dee-ahs! In a black dress striped with
white, with a dunce-cap on her lov-lee
head and a tape-per in her white hand”),
or of some remote ancestral defiance of
Nat Shin Me, the “Mistress of Paradise”
—true tales, heroic and inspiring. How
her daughters delighted in hearing of
the splendors of their past!
THEIR servant Nedoo was also a sub-
ject for discussion. They, too, re-
joiced at the birth of his baby daughter—
a sweet, brown morsel —who twice owed
fife to him, the second time when, her
father being taken, as was customary, to
see his newborn child, he had laid his
hand on her; a sign that she was to be
allowed to five.
Nedoo was “literate” ; that is, he could
both read and write English. He was
a clever man, just how clever his em-
ployers did not realise. It was, for in-
stance, his duty to send each month a
postal-order, in payment for the rent, to
the old Hindu who was their Calcutta
landlord. He kept the money. He had
written to the old man to say that the
bungalow had been burnt down, and, so
far, no questions had been asked. (None
were ; the old man must have perished
with all his kin in some religious riot.)
The romantic and prosperous marriage
of Don Manoel’s sister to a tea-planter
(“He is indeed immensely wealthee”), the
letters dictated to Nedoo by Khujasta,
who in this manner kept up an absorbing
correspondence with her aunt, the dazz-
ling prospects of the little boy, Pedro
Hyacinthus (“Mind you! He will be heir
to the col-lossal es-states of his auntie!”)
—all such enthralling talk made happy
hours for this Eurasian family, content to
five in so luminous a past until, one des-
perate week, the east wind blew; the
cholera came.
The death-cart called only once at the
De Azevedo bungalow, but it carried out
every member of that united family except
the eldest girl, Khujasta, “the saffron
flower,” who was then twenty-one. The
servant Nedoo, his wife and daughter also
survived.
The epidemic was widespread. Both
the childless aunt and her husband suc-
cumbed to its ravages. Two tea planta-
tions (in Darjeeling and Assam), two
houses so fine that they were almost
“mansions,” and a large sum of money in
the bank came to Khujasta, the heiress,
the sole survivor of the unfortunate De
Azevedos.
AMONG the gay dinner companions
whom Miranda, Clemenza and Khu-
jasta used to watch, wistfully, over the
brick wall enclosing the
Highland mess was Hew
Adam, the regiment’s last-
joined subaltern, who was
English, not Scottish. He
was tall, good-looking,
blue - eyed and incredibly
blond. He blushed easily
and for no apparent reason.
To outward view he was a
quiet young man of twenty-
two —but within! Oh, what
a cauldron of bubbling ac-
tivity ! What a blaze of
refulgent aspirations! He
had inherited the earth! He
knew it! But, about entering
into possession of his inheritance —there
were difficulties; the colonel, the Ten
Commandments! Moses knew when to
stop. Not so the colonel.
Hew Adam was accustomed to disci-
pline his ardent nature by the letting of
blood —other creatures’ blood. He shot
tigers, slew leopards, went pigsticking.
In visiting a jheel, a peaceful lake of
which he fully appreciated the subdued
beauty, and there shooting two hundred
brace of duck, he found a certain ease, a
comforting assuagement of energy.
He took a great delight in polo.
The colonel, hostile to him, suspicious
of him from the first moment he joined,
had arrived at the polo-
ground one afternoon to hear
a shout of praise—“Oh, well
done! Well played! ” —as he
had scored an opportune
goal. Hew, returning to his
bungalow, had found on his
table a list of new duties
which prevented him from
attending any further polo
matches. Leave was denied him.
He had a good voice.
After dinner one night he
had delivered the song to the
Evening Star from “Tann-
hauser” with great delicacy of
feeling. “Loud singing in the Officers’
Mess disturbs the patients in hospital and
is forbidden,” had been an item he read
with a furious he,art in the next “Orders
for the Day.”
A NARROW road bordered by inter-
minable bazaars and native huts was
the only thoroughfare in Dinapore, and
that dull highway led merely to forbidden
areas. Everywhere there were brown,
toiling myriads of people as impersonal
as ants. Crops, canals and mango-topes
restricted freedom of movements in other
directions, and in the hot weather troops
were lightly worked ; a route-march at
sunrise and the usual drills and duties of
of the day left Hew Adam with a still un-
tried store of physical energy. So he was
accustomed to ride each evening along
the river-bed. Returning from one such
nine-mile outing, he observed an unusual
concourse of Women assembled across the
ford which, a few hundred yards below
his mess, gave access to the island; he
realised that this must be the night of the
Festival of Lamps.
He reined in his horse and watched the
women slipping down the steeply-sloping
banks, their lamps shaded by their veils.
In that crepuscular hour after sunset a
sickle moon was floating in a cloudless
zenith, a few handfuls of stars, pin-points
of fight, rivalled the lamp-flares reflected
in the many stagnant pools, but the
women, shading their flickering wicks with
their mantles, walked further across the
sand to launch their twinkling lamps in
the river-channels that still flowed,
though so sluggishly.
The clear sky was the color of a pis-
tachio nut, a cream that was almost green.
Not a breath of air stirred. Not a leaf
moved. The cracked bell from the gar-
rison church, hidden beyond the banyan-
trees, sounded, as it seemed, from some-
where among the stars. It was ineffably
peaceful.
Yet into this peace came a sound of
menace. Hew Adam, listening to this in-
creasing threat, looked upstream, to see
a white wall of water rolling towards
them. It was the bore that annually fol-
lowed the melting of the snows. The
Indian women, hearing it, seeing it, recog-
nising it, ran quickly back, to scramble
to safety up the high embankment
shored-up by the roots of the immense
trees.
The cane on the island had been cut;
it showed as a mudbank soon to be sub-
merged ; but one girl, a Eurasian (he
noticed) who, like himself, had been an
onlooker, watching the carnival, rushed,
terrified, not towards the safe bank, but
towards the island. Shouting to her,
putting his horse to the gallop. Hew had,
in a moment, reached her, and catching
her up in his free arm, urged his vigorous
mount to the left, to safety. They were
almost there when the first rush of ice-
cold water struck them. The pony was
strong. Hew’s horsemanship was
masterly. They weathered that fierce
struggle with the flood. Dripping wet,
exhausted, they scaled the steep, grassy
parapet, the berm.
IT was unfortunate that the colonel
1 should at that moment encounter them.
He was on his way to evening service,
escorted' by a guard of four men carrying
lanterns.
“You know the orders? No one is
allowed to go alone outside canton-
ments?”
The question was asked in acid yet
obvious recognition of the fact that Hew
still carried the Eurasian girl in one free
arm. As he stooped to set her down he
could feel the wild beating of her heart
under his hand. Directly her feet touched
the ground she ran off, her thin dress wet
through, to slip into the com-
pound of the adjacent bunga-
low, near the gate of which
Hew noticed a man standing,
either watching or waiting.
He had the impression that
a second man stood in the
angle of the brick-wall sur-
rounding the mess. Beside
the figure at the gate—a ser-
vant, he thought—he noticed,
clinging to his fingers, a child
of two, a compact and sturdy
little creature, wearing all
that it is necessary for a
baby girl to wear —a charm
against the evil eye.
So these figures met, the servant Nedoo
with his child, the jealous colonel, the
young soldier, the Eurasian girl, the half-
seen watcher by the wall; they stayed an
instant grouped among the immense trees,
under a sickle moon, beside an unruly
rivercollected there by chances as


fortuitous as those which assembled the
butterflies in their dances above the red
bouvardias, as casually gathered together ;
as carelessly dispersed. Yet the forces
which governed the human pattern
hate, greed, love —were perhaps deeper
in origin than the love of
sunlight, the joy in color that
linked the dancing butterflies
together above the red
flowers. It may be so. For
a moment the jealous colonel
saw the young Eurasian girl
in Hew’s arms, for one
moment Hew held her, a girl
whose name was unknown to
him (later, under tragic cir-
cumstances, he was to swear
ignorance of it), and then
the pattern made by those
meeting figures dissolved;
they parted and went their
several ways.
Next morning the Highland Regiment
had its orders to leave for an unknown
destination; within a fortnight not a
tartan ribbon fluttered in those deserted
cantonments. “The Flowers of the
Forest” ceased to be vocal in Dinapore.
HEW ADAM spent his time between
the following January and the end of
March fighting with the British troops
attempting to destroy the Japanese de-
fences north of Donbaik, on the Arakan
coast. He was engaged in one of the
many campaigns by which, fighting in
dangerous areas of heat, disease and pests,
our soldiers saved India —unthanked —
from a Japanese invasion. The hardships
of such jungle operations cannot be told
in words ; only experience can make vivid
such sufferings. Hew Adam, in his ardor
for action, enjoyed the astringent con-
ditions under which he fought. He
rejoiced in the companionship of his
brother-officers and the comradeship of
his men—a noble band,. The colonel had
faded into the background of his life, he
seldom saw him.
At the end of March the enemy, taking
the offensive, drove our troops out of the
Mayu Valley; their threat to our weak
forces, fighting literally with their backs
to the sea, was serious in the extreme,
particularly when, by infiltration, the
Japanese had manned the heights over-
looking India, our main position. Un-
able to prevent this dangerous occupa-
tion of key points, Hew Adam’s regi-
ment, weakened by casualties, and greatly
outnumbered, was holding on to its posts
along the foothills guarding the coastal
strip; our one way of escape from any
ultimate disaster. It was here that a
message came to ask “Major Adam,” as
he then was, to report immediately to
headquarters.
HE went. He found the colonel, the
adjutant and several staff officers
sitting round an improvised table in the
native hut used as headquarters.
“There are very serious charges made
against you in a batch of letters I have
just got from Dinapore,” the colonel said
as Hew saluted and stood waiting.
“The brigadier and I felt it imperative
that you should know the charges. For
the honor of the regiment we feel you
must at once explain your part in them.”
“Yes, sir?”
The colonel took up a bundle of letters,
“This communication is from Major
Wild. You will recollect that he was the
officer left behind in Dinapore to settle
up various regimental matters?”
“Yes, sir.”
“Major Wild says ‘A Eurasian girl called
Khujasta de Azevedo came to my office
in great distress. She says that Lieutenant
Hew Adam, who saved her from drowning
during a river-flood, had, by false pre-
tences and a promise of marriage, de-
frauded her of a large sum of money.’ ”
“That is quite untrue! ” Hew exclaimed.
So much surprised by the absurd accusa-
tion that he was not even annoyed, much
less alarmed. “How could I? I have
never even heard of the girl. Her name
is quite unknown to me.”
“You may remember —as I remember
—that you were carrying this girl in your
arms that Sunday night when I met you
on the embankment; from all Major Wild
says, that is evidently the Eurasian he
speaks about.”
“Oh, that girl! I had never seen her
before. I did not know her name,”
“Will you swear to that?”
“Of course I’ll swear to that! I fished
the girl out of the river! You saw her
run off! That is the first and last I ever
saw of her.”
The colonel sorted the letters in his
hand. He read, “ ‘The enclosed letters,’
Major Wild says, ‘will tell their own
tale.’ ”
They did.
T' HE case was clear. Hew Adam, they
*• declared, had that very night written
to express a wild love for the Eurasian.
He proposed to marry her. Nedoo, her
servant, who wrote all her English letters,
wrote and carried her answer “She had
not the courage.” A second letter came,
full of ardent protestations. This time
the girl (through Nedoo) answered that
“Perhaps, if she knew him better, she
might” His third appeal
moved her. She said she
would marry him. The re-
maining letters were all con-
cerned with the payment of
large sums of money “to buy
a marriage licence,” “to pay
for our passages to England,”
“to purchase a house and
furniture.” The servant
Nedoo swore that he had
handed the money “to a mes-
senger sent by Lieutenant
Adam.” He did not know
this man’s name. He did not
see his face.
“This is aburd! This is
sheer nonsense! The letters are not mine.
Repeat those words! ‘You are the bird
singing in the Lote-tree of my distressed
heart! ’ That is something out of a book!
I never open a book—why should I? In
my case I’d never say ‘I will clasp you to
my fast-beating heart!’ Even on the
stage a follow would not say a silly thing
like that!”
The colonel put the letters back in the
file.
“I should have been inclined to regard
these charges as ludicrous if I had not —
with my own eyes —seen you holding that
girl,” the colonel smiled, “against your
fast-beating heart. There must be an
inquiry. Meanwhile things are so serious
here that I must send you back to your
post.”
HEW went back to his regiment on the
slopes of that fatal hill. He had seen
many brave men die. Previously he had
been content to believe that when his time
came he would be in good company; he
did not fear death. Desperately, now,
he wished to live, he wanted to clear his
name of these extraordinary fables.
The wish was denied him. After a
terrible night-march up precipitous,
jungle-covered slopes, in an attack on the
ridge, he was mortally wounded, he died
as he fell, in the stringy cut-grass clothing
the stones of a ruined temple, among
whose ancient .carvings black butterflies
as large as bats, and as labored in their
flight as lapwings, passed and repassed
his young, his beautiful, body.
In the same action the colonel was
killed, and all the papers at headquarters
were destroyed,
THE threads of this strange story
now lead back to Dinapore, where
Major Wild, having read of Major
Hew Adam’s death in action, and of the
colonel’s death in the same disastrous
attack, being now the only Englishman
left in those deserted cantonments, and
having no wish to bring into the Indian
courts a case so derogatory to British
honor, went yet once again to see the
Eurasian girl. He felt, as he had thought
all along, that she must have some clue
to the real culprit’s identity; she herself,
simple as she was, appeared to believe in
Hew Adam’s innocence. “Hee was not
that kind of man,” she would say. “Hee
was a shy young man.”
He found Khujasta in a quiet house,
sitting on the floor, intent on stringing
some kind of seeds—melon-seeds he
thought—into a necklace or perhaps
rosaries. Playing beside her was the ser-
vant Nedoo’s child, the little girl.
From all he had so far heard, Major
Wild was inclined to think that Nedoo
was the man who had defamed Hew
Adam and stolen the money from his
young mistress. In all his conversations
with Khujasta, in all his interrogations
of Nedoo, he had learnt of no other
person in any way associated
with that detached house-
hold ; the Azevedos had
come from Goa knowing no
one in Dinapore.
Sitting beside his hostess
in a canvas chair —the room
was still poorly furnished —
Major Wild said, idly, and
just to make conversation,
for Khujasta, too shy to
speak, was intent on her
work, “Where do you get the
seeds you use in making
those rosaries?”
“Oh, the mess babu —so
kind! Hee gave us theez!
Wee had no mon-ee to buy industree!
Theez wee used to sell, wee were so
poor! I am rich—for console-ation,
on-lee, I make them.”
She held up the gaily-dyed seeds.
“The mess babu, hee was vairee clever
—hee was a failed B.A. —of Oxford, if
you pleez.”
■ Hearing this. Major Wild at once
guessed rightly—that he need look no
further for the criminal. But the man had
disappeared, no one knew where.
His position in the mess had given
him access to the notepaper on which
was the regimental crest; he would have
opportunities to hear all the gossip; he
may have seen letters of Hew’s; he may
have been —indeed, almost certainly was
—the man hidden in the angle of the wall
that Sunday evening by the river.
'"THOUGH his business with Khujasta
1 —if business it was —was now con-
cluded, and in a report to the adjutant he
had made clear Hew Adam’s innocence,
Major Wild found himself constantly sit-
ting in that plain room where Khujasta,
who was getting used to him, would en-
tertain him with a growing confidence.
The room, like rooms in many Indian
houses, had a shelf on which the family
treasures were kept, and from this the
Eurasian girl would take the miniatures,
painted by Persian artists, of those famous
ladies, the Portuguese wives of the Vice-
roys of the Indies, and the Admirals of
the Luciads —her ancestors, of whom
Donna Elvira had been in the habit of
speaking. Khujasta, with equally
dramatic artistry, would declaim to him
their extraordinary adventures.
Major Wild was, at first, merely
amused. In process of time he began to
find the girl “touching”; she was so in-
nocent, so much alone, so brave, and
(poor girl) so very rich. He
taught her to speak English,
and found her an apt pupil.
In her interests, purely, he
visited Darjeeling, to find her
tea-estate a place of charm
and profit.
When the time came for
him to choose between trans-
ferring to the British Army
or retiring, he retired. He
volunteered his services. He
became, first, the manager of
the Darjeeling plantation,
and, later, the manager, ami-
able, indeed, devoted, of
Khujasta herself. He had long
since ceased to regard her as Eurasian. He
had accepted her own view, that some
quality in her noble ancestry on the De
Azevedo side purified all lesser strains;
and on the Mogul side she was of royal
descent. He was content to believe it.
As for Hew Adam, who died in the
Arakan jungle, of him it may be hoped
that “in this playhouse of forms” he may
have caught glimpses of what is form-
less ; that having had his play he could
say, “I have seen what is unsurpassable.”
THREE POEMS...
Winter Coal Strike, 1949.
NANCY KEESING
I have never seen Sydney like this before
—Nobody living has ever seen Sydney
like this,
Washed clean by rain.
Continuous searching rain,
And stripped of smoke for a month.
It may never happen again.
Never such rain before weeks of such
weather
Of sunlight. The city buildings
Sooty , dingy and grey.
Left bright and almost gay ;
Revealing an unsuspected beauty of
line,
Graciously solid, whittled and fined away.
Beneath an incandescence of winter sun
Houses in the older streets, Macquarie,
Phillip and Jamieson,
And English park-trees bare
{Lovelier now for their smallest twigs
show clear)
Borrow brief glory from an older time,
Assume a quaint inconsequent carnival
air.
But I would not wish it too long, for this
serene
Aspect stems from unconsciousness, de-
privation.
This is the stage fagade
Denying pain in jesting masquerade.
Death lurks in this past-century diversion
And cannot be indefinitely delayed.
This is my city. I was born here and I
love it
From the Harbor to Brickfield Hill, its
, cow-track streets,
Its strong exciting smells,
Its clanging Sunday bells,
The haze that before has made it familiar
and mysterious
At the same time, and the clamor that
swells
Up from the clattering trams to the
highest rooms.
I am of my century and would not be
otherwise
Either in place or Time.
But this coquettish mime
Affords a measuring stick for comparison
With true, but other values, under the
grime.
The House Caught in a Dream.
The old white house dreams over the
little bay
As I think it has dreamed this hundred
years or more:
It has high verandah ceilings, and on them
play
Water reflections —they flicker on the
white boards.
Run down the fluted columns and dance
and stray
Over the whole house-front, making it
seem ✓
Not solid, but intensely brief and fleet-
ing
Like a reflection in a mirror’s gleam
Before the mirror is broken. And yet the
house
Is the oldest in sight—although it is lost
in a dream ;
Or, perhaps, because of it. This intran-
sience
Of constantly changing surface, where
the mason laid
Great blocks of stone, asserting their
permanence
Has the house held in a trance of reflected
time
So that its fabric, translated out of sense
Continues to exist in truth —and imagina-
tion —
After its garden, its growing garden has
gone;
After the peculiar reincarnation
Of monkey-puzzle into symmetric flats;
After the pale magnolia’s decimation.
On one side beneath its walls is a curving
park,
A fragile rampart between the water and
the shimmer.
Where a fat old woman takes her peke
for a walk;
Children play there, shouting through the
afternoon.
Whispers and laughter are heard there
after dark.
The park with its narrow range, it seems
to me.
Is the factor in time that will keep the
house as it is.
The children come and go but they
guarantee
A constancy in change; their unarguing
eyes
See things as, this moment, they are, and
continue to be.
For those reflections on ceilings and
pillars and stone
Do not glitter the same on the dull red
brick of the flats.
And those tall newcomers only speak to
their own.
They will withdraw, as the trees did, and
like the trees
I think they will leave the dreaming house
alone.
Song of the Heart
I.
/ have told my heart
That it must not always be
As restless as the wind,
As turbulent as the sea;
But it pays no heed to me.
My heart will not be bound,
It beats in its own way,
So that I have no choice
But to follow as I may.
Nothing that I can say
Will check its lack of reason
Or stop it for a minute.
So headlong goes my heart.
And I can never win it
Until I beat within it.
II.
My heart has stood outside me and has
sung me this song,
“Let me be, let me be, let me be alone.
Set me free, set me free.
You may keep your sorrow.
Be it on your own head and of your own
part;
Let me be, set me free, release your urgent
heart.”
Then I took the singing thing and flung it
to the sky,
Saying: “Taste your life at least, do not
stay here.
Keep your beat, wing your joy ;
My own self I retain.”
But my heart cried: “Oh clutch me back,
ah only
Replace me in my own dark cell, the air
is lonely."


MAKE 'EM EAT DIRT
by Charles Shaw
I - a BED ALONG consists of a hotel,
\A / a sc^ post-office, one-man
V V police-station, three or four shops,
some forty or so houses and
about five hundred people. When Con-
stable McLelland was sent there to replace
Constable Smith, about the first thing he
heard about was the Bailey boys.
Bill Hooper, who ran a small creekside
farm and had his own ideas of humor,
happened to be in the hotel on the day
McLelland arrived. He sized McLelland
up and invited him to have a drink.
“Just taken over, eh?” he said. “Aw,
well, y’ll find this a fair enough place.
Pretty quiet. Except for when the Baileys
come in. Not much t’ do here, y’ know.
Off the main road, an’ everythin’. Course,
apt t’ get lively when the Baileys”
McLelland, being young and not ex-
perienced in the ways of countrymen
who set traps, took the bait.
“Baileys?”
“Y’ wanta look out f’r them,” Bill
Hooper warned. “They gave poor ol’
Smith a rough time. Always drinkin’ an’
brawlin’ an’ bustin’ things up, I’d reckon
Smith’d be glad he don’t have t’ run inter
them Baileys no more.”
He emptied his glass
with studied indifference,
then lowered his gaze as he
saw McLelland’s jaw jut.
“I met their sort be-
fore,” McLeffand grunted.
“Have another drink,”
Hooper said. He caught
the publican’s interested
gaze and lowered his left
eyelid.
“Yair,” he drawled,
fondling his newly-filled
glass. “They ain’t easy
blokes t’ handle. What
this place needs is two cops
—er —police; too much for one man.”
“I got my own way o’ dealing with
that sort,” said McLelland,
“What! Run ’em in?” Hooper could
hardly conceal his delight.
“Run ’em in be blowed! That doesn’t
stop ’em. Only makes ’em martyrs to
their own element. No fear. Best way is
to hold ’em up to ridicule. Make ’em
eat dirt. That’s the way to treat their sort.
Make ’em eat dirt.”
Hooper, inwardly elated now, pursed
his lips and assumed a doubtful expres-
sion. “Take doin’,” he murmured, with
a slow shake of the head. “Trouble is, y’
never catch ’em apart.”
The constable spat into the sawdust
on the bar floor, his young face some-
what flushed. He felt in this stout man’s
words a challenge to his manhood and
his authority.
“Have another?” he said, speaking
carefully because he was aware that the
beer was making him talkative.
“Well, just the bare one. I gotter get
back home. ’Ere’s luck.” Hooper put
the empty glass down and turned for the
door. “I’D. be goin’,” he said, and added
“Keep me eye on them Bailey boys
’flwasyoo.”
“Only one way,” McLelland said.
“Make ’em eat dirt.”
TWENTY minutes later Hooper was
* hunched over the wheel of his
utility at the Youlbong gate, talking to
Ken and Joe Bailey. They were dark,
lean, wiry, thin-mouthed youths who’d
been born a century too late. They should
have been Texas horse-thieves or Vic-
torian bushrangers. As it was, they made
the best of their misplacement in time
by living down in the swamps behind
Weedalong, riding splendid horses, earn-
ing money by colt-breaking, rabbiting
and illegal possum-skinning. Infrequently
they invaded Weedalong, morosely drank
its liquor and as morosely assaulted its
citizens. Occasionally a horse of a few
sheep vanished in those swamps, but Since
those who sought information or ex-
pressed resentment invariably encountered
violence, and nothing could ever be
proved, such things came to be regarded
as part of the price of peace, and were
accepted along with other risks, like bush-
fires, floods and taxation inspectors.
The Baileys had a mother
more terrible than they.
A gaunt, rawboned woman,
she could ride an outlaw,
split out posts, or add her
fists and feet to the boys’
cause in a brawl. She
could drink with anybody
and used awful language.
There were awful tales
about her, though none
assailed her chastity. The
boys had a father, a little
wiry man who kept out of
sight and was usually
“outback drovin’,” or “up
in the hills scalpin’,” or
“down south on business.” On one memor-
able night he invaded a Sunday-school
concert in Weedalong, danced a wild Irish
jig that endeared him for ever to the local
small boys, and withdrew, red with
embarrassment and apologising to any-
body who’d listen that it “must ha’ bin
the booze,” That was years ago. Weeda-
long saw little of him these days.
“Yairs,” Bill Hooper said, “she’s hot,
all right.”
“How’s town?” inquired Ken Bailey.
It was the conventional question to any-
one coming thence.
“Quiet, as usual.” Hooper rolled a
cigarette. “They got a new copper in
place of Smith. Big young bloke, named
McLelland. Looks a tough customer.
Funny they should send a big young
bloke, ain’t it? Mostly they’re grey-
headed coves.” He was watching them
furtively, and didn’t miss the quick glance
that passed from one to the other. “They
tell me,” he added, staring away beyond
the young men, “that this feller is pretty
good with his hands. Well, I wouldn’t
know about that.” He pinched off the
wet end of his cigarette and eyed it
thoughtfully, waiting.
Joe Bailey said, “Lot o’ these coppers
got big names f’r rough-housin’.”
Ken emitted a strange, harsh little
laugh with no mirth in it. When he heard
it a joyous gulp of anticipated amusement
began in Bill Hooper’s throat. He
changed it quickly into a cough.
“Oh, well,” he said, “I better be gettin’
along.” He started the motor and rested
a hand on the gear-lever, reluctant to go
before he had some confirmation that his
scheme was working.
“I reckon,” Joe said, as though the
matter were unimportant, “I reckon he’s
one o’ them busybodies. I reckon”
His brother interrupted. “How’d he
go,” he demanded violently, “if he got
inter a real dinkum go? How’d he be if
someone was t’ take him down a peg or
two! ”
“Aw, I wouldn’t know,” Hooper re-
plied, his eyes dancing. “Reckons he
knows how t’ treat roughies. ‘Make ’em
eat dirt.’ That’s what he reckons. Be
seem’ y’.”
He let the clutch in and shot away
with a wave of the hand. “Make ’em eat
dirt,” he chuckled to himself, heading
down the creek road.
FOR two days Hooper watched the
road. But there was no movement of
Baileys towards Weedalong; no sign of
the police motor-cycle making for the
swamps. He could hardly contain his
impatience. About noon on the third
day he saw two horsemen cantering to-
wards Weedalong. He stopped his little
pumping-engine, wiped the irrigation mud
from his boots, backed the utility out and
drove slowly into town.
He parked near the store and went into
it, his eyes darting everywhere, delighted
anticipation on his round face.
“See the copper anywhere?” he asked.
“He’s out Jemallen way. On statistics,
I think,” the storekeeper answered.
Hooper’s face fell. Then it cheered up
again. There was still time for Mc-
Lelland to get back before the Baileys
left, and the longer they were let alone
the more drink they would take and the
more explosive become. He drifted aim-
lessly from store to post-office and back
again. Weedalong remained quiet.
Well on in the afternoon thirst and
impatience drove him to the hotel. The
Bailey brothers were in the bar, sedately
drunk. Hooper somewhat disgustedly
bought them a drink, accepted one in
return, offered another and was seeking
the words that would stir them when, to
his astonishment, Joe said, “Well, we
better be goin’. Givsh borrel a sherry
for the ol’ woman, Fred.” The publican
passed it over, received payment, and the
two went out of the bar to their horses.
Still praying for the constable to appear,
Hooper followed them to the door. They
mounted and walked their horses down
the street. Near the store Joe turned
and rode back. He drew the bottle of
wine from his pocket, crouched in the
saddle and flung it at the bar window.
Amid the crash of glass and the out-
raged yell from the publican. Hooper
heard Joe’s shout, “Now tell y’r flamin’
copper t’ make us eat dirt! ”
A little overwhelmed, Hooper watched
Joe join Ken and the pair kick their
horses into a fast canter. Ignoring the
fuming publican and the questions of
those citizens who had been drawn to
the scene, he went and sat in his utility,
anxious not to miss a move when Mc-
Lelland came. But McLelland didn’t
come; though darkness did and Hooper
had to drive home. He watched the road
for a motor-cycle headlight that night,
but in vain.
L_l OOPER found it necessary to repair
1 J his road-gate next morning, and his
eyes nearly popped with excitement as the
motor-cycle roared up to him.
“G’day,” he said, searching Me-
Lelland’s face, shadowed
under the peaked cap.
“What brings y’ out this
way?”
“G’day,” McLelland re-
sponded. Then he recog-
nised Hooper and said,
“Oh, how are you? Do
you know where the
Baileys’ place is?”
Hooper directed him.
“What they bin up t’?”
he asked.
“Aw, nothin’ much. Just
want to see them. So
long.” The motor-cycle
roared away. Hooper
leaned on the post. He
debated with himself whether to get the
utility and follow, but decided against it.
McLELLAND followed the rough
track through the swamps and into
the clearing in front of the Bailey home-
stead. It was a ramshackle affair of
weatherboard and iron, with a roughly-
built skillion on its west side. Beyond it
were equally ramshackle stables and
sheds. But there was nothing ramshackle
about the circular breaking-in yard be-
tween house and sheds. A herd of mixed
dogs came furiously at McLelland, and
the gaunt mother of the Baileys appeared
at the skillion door and cursed them into
silence.
“Was y’ lookin’ for someone?” she
asked, regarding him with fierce eyes.
“Yes. A man named Joe Bailey.”
“Watcha want him for?”
“Just to ask him some questions.” |
She stared at him and he watched alarm 1
change to rage on her terrible face. He 1
sat astride the motor-cycle casually, i
thinking that he would be in a pickle
if she decided to attack him. However,
she simply let out a yell, “Hey, Joe!
Joey! Come up’ere! It’s the p’lice!” i
McLelland saw two young men, as
darkly alike and as wildly alike as two
savages, appear from one of the sheds and
move towards him. They walked with
the somewhat stilted gait of horsemen,
but he was aware of their sinewy light-
ness of step and the impression both gave
of being as hard as nails. As he studied
their faces, each with its tight, intent look
and the half-sneer across the thin lips,
he knew that he had met their violent,
undisciplined kind before—in slum back-
streets, in mining towns, in courts, in
brawls at football matches. Always dis-
mayed and lost when alone, in pairs or
threes or gangs against a single opponent
they were capable of anything. He eyed
their approach, and drew comfort from
the pressure of the revolver under his
jacket.
“Are you Joe Bailey?” His voice was
incisive.
Joe Bailey’s head was thrust forward.
He stood about six feet from McLelland.
Slightly to his right stood Ken, and for
the first time McLelland saw the length
of chain in Ken’s right hand.
“Goin’ t’ make us eat dirt, ain’t y’!”
Joe Bailey sneered.
“Eat dirt!” McLelland echoed, amazed
and momentarily nonplussed. A hot feel-
ing of foolishness ran over him. So the
fellow. Hooper, had passed it on. Mc-
Lelland reproached himself inwardly for
letting drink loosen his tongue. Hooper?
Hooper had passed it on. When Mc-
Lelland had inquired about the broken
bar window, the publican had said some-
thing about Joe Bailey and eating dirt.
Hooper? A light began to dawn on Mc-
Lelland.
JOE BAILEY, seeing his momentary
inattention, leapt at him. McLelland
tried to screw himself sideways,
but couldn’t get clear of the motor-
cycle. Then Ken Bailey rushed him
and he was being struck and kicked
and was striking and fending, trying
to watch the chain and get at his
revolver. It was a fierce, wild time of
struggle and panting breaths and blows
and the yapping of the dogs. McLelland
fell, but managed to struggle up again
and a lucky swing caught Ken Bailey and
knocked him backward. McLelland
stepped back from Joe’s charge and fell
over the fallen motor-cycle.
Next instant he was lying on his back,
still, the prongs of a pitchfork within
an inch of his eyes, a raging termagant
holding it, her wild eyes glaring down at
him. He saw Joe Bailey standing be-
hind her and from behind him came
Ken’s mirthless, cold
laugh.
“Is this him?” she raged.
“Is this the b y’ was
talkin’ about, boys? Is
this the b was goin’t’
make y’ eat dirt?”
She towered over him,
the prongs hovering men-
acingly at his eyes.
“Get her away,” he
called. “Before she does
something she’ll be sorry
for.”
Joe merely grinned.
“Make me boys eat dirt,
would y’! Y’ dirty,
greasy thing. Me boys.
They’ll never eat dirt for the likes o’ you,
Y greasy b thing.” The terrible face
glared down at him and he saw a demon-
iacal smile crease it. Her blazing eyes be-
came bright.
“You eat it! ” she shrilled. “Go on, fill
y’ greasy mouth with it. Go on,
or I’ll poke y’ b eyes out.” She
moved the pitchfork ever so little. Mc-
Lelland was convinced she was mad. It


Nu-METAL
SAVES
ENGINE NEW
REBORE RINGS
-Just pour RE-NTJ liquid NU-METAL
through plug holes. NU-METAL will re-
condition your motor while you drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles, and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL has been proved and
tested by over 100,000 users since 1934,
tnany owners having used NU-METAL
three and four times in the same engine.
NU-METAL comes to you in a separ-
ate tube for each cylinder, thus eliminat-
ing guess work. Municipal Councils,
Engineers, etc., use NU-METAL. Treatment
costs for 1,4, 6, 8 cylinders. 10/6, 30/-,
37/6, 45/-. Call, write, or phone MA7250.
Mail Orders post free. C.O.D.’s phis
Postal Charges.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return NU-
METAL to treat a Cylinder Engine.
S enclose Cheque—PN.
Or please send me Illustrated Folder
describing action of NU-METAL,
Fsoie. ... . • . .
IftMfUl, I MM
. . r T , B. 26/10/49
BRISTOL TRADING COMPANY
Ist Floor, Bristol House,
1 43 EHzabetfa Street, Sydney. MA 7250
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—-No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L.
Barrere brings to rupture sufferers an
entirely new method of control, the
result of 40 years’ practice and im-
provements, proved completely suc-
cessful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the
hand when placed flat upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, hold the intestine
in its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BABBERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 26n), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
£rus*b e
m
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
Write with a nib precisely
suited to your hand . . . write
with a Swan Pen. A Swan is a
pleasure to use, a treasure to
own. At stationers, jewellers and
stores, priced from 37/3 to 88/£.
SWAN
PENS
SWAN ML INKS
e|® —BREWED— not merely mixed
Swan Inks in the- famous blue-black and 4 \
brilliant colours are clear, free-flowing and \\
remarkably permanent .. . the finest inks V s '
for any type of pen. \
; MABIE, TODD & CO. (Aust.) PTY., LTD., SYDNEY \
/S
\
*
would take little to make her drive the
prongs into him.
F He scooped up earth with one hand
and crammed it quickly into his mouth,
She drew back. Her face changed. Sud-
denly she dropped the fork and began
to shriek.
McLelland got quickly to his feet. He
had his revolver out, looking at Joe and
Ken Bailey. The woman’s shrieking in-
creased. McLelland saw the brothers
looking at her strangely. She rocked
on her heels, her rough hands beating
the air, her shrieks ringing out incessantly,
McLelland with another look at the
brothers, dropped his revolver into his
pocket, stepped forward, gathered her
two hands into one of his and held them,
and with his other hand slapped her
heartily on both cheeks; quick, stinging
blows.
The shrieking stopped suddenly. Mc-
Lelland ceased the slapping, but still held
her hands. She looked at him in aston-
ishment, then suddenly her body
slackened, she drooped and burst into
tears. McLelland dropped her hands.
She raised her awful, tear-drenched face,
gave him a peculiar look and then turned
and walked into the house, crying bitterly.
McLELLAND turned to the brothers.
Both wore expressions of complete
astonishment, watching their weeping
mother. Then they turned their eyes on
McLelland and he saw that both looked
at him with a mixture of wonder and
admiration.
“Cripes,” said Joe slowly, “we’d never
ha’ bin game to do that t’ Mum.”
“Never see anythin’ like it in me born
days,” Ken confessed.
“Rot,” McLelland said briskly. “Only
thing for hysterics. She often get like
that?”
“Yellin’ an’ screechin’? I’ll say she
does,” Joe said. “She frightens the tripe
out of us.” He looked at McLelland.
“But she won’t no more,” he added.
“No b fear,” asserted Ken. Both
of them seemed almost lighthearted, as
though freed from a tyranny.
McLelland knew he had the ball at his
feet.
“All right,” he snapped. “Now, what
about this window-smashin’ in town?
And this attack on me? You’d both
better come with me before there’s
further trouble.”
All Weedalong would have been as-
tonished at the abashed look on Joe
Bailey’s hard face.
“I reckon we done wrong, Constable,”
he said. “We oughter had more sense.
Look, I ain’t tryin’ t’ square off or any-
thin’, but if we make it up t’ the publi-
can f’r his winder and promise t’ go quiet
in future —well, how about that?”
“You can’t assault a policeman and get
away with it.”
“Yair, that’s right. Me an’ Ken’s had a
lot o’ trouble like that. Still, how about J
givin’ us a go? If it hadn’t bin for Bill
Hooper” his voice died away.
“H’m.” McLelland chewed his lip. Bill
Hooper. The light that had been dimmed
by the fight dawned again. He looked
from Joe to Ken. Ken had picked the
motor-cycle up and was brushing bits of
dirt from it. McLelland felt that an ex-
periment might be worth trying. To run
these Baileys in and prosecute them would
make them bitter enemies. They would
be always causing trouble. Fines, even
jail, wouldn’t quell their wild spirits. A
gesture of friendliness might swing them
over to his side. He didn’t like their
kind, but it was better to have them with
you than against you. His tongue found
a speck of earth in his teeth and he spat
it out. He was still unsure of the best
course.
“This dirt-eating business wasn’t so
good,” he said.
Both of them looked discomforted.
“Mum’s always—well, she’s” Joe
stopped. He didn’t know what to say.
Suddenly’ he bent, scooped up a hand-
ful of earth, put some of it in his mouth,
then spat it out. He held out his hand to
his brother, who gave a foolish grin, bent,
took a mouthful of dust and spat it out.
”What are y' Waiting f'r, Joe —get the landing-net!”
“That’s about the only way we can
square it,” Joe mumbled.
McLelland felt laughter struggling
through his seriousness.
“All right,” he said. “I’ll give you
fellows a go if you’ll give me one.
Square up the publican next time you’re
in town an’ keep off the booze. But, re-
member, start anything and I’ll be on to
you like a ton o’ bricks.”
“You’ll do us. Constable,” Joe said.
Ken gave his laugh, which sounded a
little less cold,
TEN minutes later McLelland rode the
motor-cycle towards Weedalong. He
saw Bill Hooper working at his road-gate
and drew in.
He wished he could turn Hooper round
and kick him, but he couldn’t do that.
He saw Hooper’s eyes, bright with joyful
anticipation, running over him. He knew
his face was bruised and his uniform bore
marks of struggle.
“Well,” Hooper said, striving to keep
his voice steady, “how’d y’ get on with
them Baileys?”
“Pretty good. Pretty good,” McLel-
land said. Then a happy notion struck
him. “As a matter of fact, we had lunch
together ; sort of picnic lunch, out in the
open. Well, so long.” He gave Hooper
a long, enigmatical smile and kicked the
motor-cycle into action.
Hooper leaned against the post and
watched him go. He pushed his hat back
and sighed, baffled and disappointed.
“Had lunch with ’em?” he muttered.
He raised his head and peered intently
all round. He had the strangest feeling
that there was laughter in the air, but he
couldn’t locate it. He went slowly home-
ward.
The Legend.
In the great park, beside the diamond-
cold
Waters of streams, in snow and emerald
The peacocks promenade, each tail a fan.
Fans at a masquerade; retreat, advance,
Posed in the proud precision of the dance.
The colonnades of beeches arch and
tower.
Beneath their gothic roof the Lady walked
A lovely ghost of Fragonard, who paused
A length along the avenue, alone.
And, looking back, that instant turned to
stone.
Against a dying sky the wyverns hold
Armorial pennants with a dumb disdain
Of Time that frets, and Wind that wears
away
Heraldic blazonings and robs of fame
The gilded quarters of a noble name.
The iron gates withhold the distant scene
Between two towering pillars and defy
With rampant lions and sculptured swords
unsheathed,
With massive lock and heavy bolt shot
home,
All who would pass until a king should
come.
So goes the tale —but I, who always find
In anticlimax pleasure and enjoy
The lifted eyebrow and the humorous
shrug,
Saw once the gates wide open—not a
doubt —
And watched the gardener wheel his
barrow out.
N.S.W.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.
Nodding Greenhood.
The slim green stem, the head
Bent in its green reverie ;
So like the first discovery
Of what the hands could make
Or spirit dream out of rock
In the deep gully’s shade . . .
All that has come to pass
Where gum-trees tower in millions
Lies in the globe of silence
The little wild orchids hold,
Lifting each hollow hood
Nine in a row from the moss.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


r
V3
S3
IW#
4^
J>
e
o >>
rQ.Ur
vac?
s
mm,
e?
mm
'tvfvwrf't'x
5*>
rv
%
v-^
sss'
?;
pv
=o—
TOOTH'S K.B. LAGER—Brewed and bottled by
Tooth & Co. Limited, Brewers of good beer since 1835
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ROBERT GEORGE CALLIN late of
Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that EDNA
CALLIN has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 3454 of 1949 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse fo-
three years and upwards and is asking
for the exercise of the Court’s discretion
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
2nd day «f December 1949 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from
J. GORNEY, Solicitor, of 29 Bligh Street,
Sydney.— (l.s.) J. DOUGHAN, Registrar
in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO COLIN CAMPBELL.—TAKE NOTICE
that IDA MAY CAMPBELL has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 3510 of 1949
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for 8 years and upwards
If you wish to defend the suit you may
enter an appearance on or before the 10th
day of January 1950 at, the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney A copy of the petition may be had
without charge from J. K. DIXON, Soli-
citor, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.— (l.s.) J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO DUDLEY VICTOR FRASER.—TAKE
NOTICE that HANNAH ELLEN FRASER
has filed Petition No. 3074 of 1949 on the
grounds of desertion for 3 years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
13th January 1950 and obtain a copy of
the petition free of charge from JOHN D.
NORTON, Solicitor, 398 George Street,
Sydney.—(L.s.) J. DOUGHAN, Registrar
in Divorce.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSOX 4
OSUIXIVAX
J>5T V
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
"Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUL” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
THE SERVICE MAN
In Hong Kong.
“Ek Dum”: The Chinese
situation continues to develop
as fast as is physically and diplo-
matically possible.
The Communists are -not
hurrying their movements. They
are manoeuvring carefully to
secure British and American
recognition, if possible, since this
would immediately establish
also their position as the de facto
Government of China and
enable discussion of the status of
Hong Kong and of foreign trad-
ing rights to take place on a
basis on which an agreement
might be made.
The British and Americans are
not likely to hurry. There is too
much involved. For instance,
the Hong Kong question does
not consist merely of the issues
of whether or not the Com-
munists intend to take over
British territory. Even if satis-
factory guarantees are given that
no attempt will be made to
destroy the British colony, the
question of trade remains.
Hong Kong has developed
into a huge industrial area which
has been growing with the col-
lapse of Chinese industry in the
North.
While China’s industries have
been failing fast the security and
energy of Hong Kong has been
increasing output every week.
Many of those who saw the
writing on the wall in the north
as far back as 1946 began then
to move all their plants and
facilities into the shelter of capi-
talist Hong 1 Kong. There are,
for instance, several cotton fac-
tories with a total of 70,000
spindles and 4500 employees, and
by the end of 1950 it is planned
to build capacity to 240,000
spindles. The wool industry has
been born, and even in its
present infancy employs 400.
And electrical manufacture is
big business.
Naturally the Communists
will not be eager to see this con-
tinue. And the British will not
be anxious to make any move
to bolster up Communist autho-
rity until they know that it will
not spell complete ruin to Hong
Kong.
Reports publicised early last
week in Hong Kong that the
Government had had talks with
the representatives of the Peking
Government were denied. The
points which rumor said were
under discussion were what the
Hong Kong Government would
do with Nationalist Government
property —a considerable item
—lodged in its territory ; whether
it would consider extradition of
Nationalist and Kuomintang
“war criminals”; the question
of leased territories and what
attitude in general the British
would adopt when the Com-
munists —euphemistically self-
called “The People’s Liberation
Army”—reach the borders of
Hong Kong.
The information available de-
clared that the Hong Kong
authorities had indicated that
they would turn over assets
and property of the Nation-
alist regime to which the
new Government could estab-
lish a legal claim; that
political refugees would be
sheltered in accord with British
tradition ; that the question of
new territories would have to be
r|ferred to London.
But the Government of Hong
Kong denies the whole of the
story.
The leased territory will cer-
tainly provide knotty problems.
It was acquired on a 99 years’
agreement on June 9, 1898, and
covers 359 miles of country and
islands in the Bias Bay region,
together with the waters of Mirs
and Deep Bays and the island
of Lantao. It holds perhaps
120,000 inhabitants. Lantao is
important from a defence view-
point, since it commands the
entrance to the river and is on
the seaward flank of Hong Kong
Island.
The area is very important,
on both seaward and landward
sides, from a defence viewpoint.
And also from the point of view
of living space. It is the only
lung which gives the teeming
population relief from the crowd-
ing of Hong Kong proper.
Stripped of it, 2,000,000 people
would be hemmed into an area
of about 33 square miles, a very
uncomfortable experience if the
next-door neighbor lowers a
complete iron curtain along the
border and allows neither ingress
nor egress. And that is what
the Chinese Communists will do
if they live up to the Communist
tradition. The prospect is not
cheering.
Whatever happens, some vil-
lages will —indeed, already have
—become little Berlins with
“We're safe , Marj.! I knew my costume Would attract
them!”
Chinese Communist troops
parading on one side, no doubt
armed to the teeth, and British
Chinese police wandering up and
down on the other side.
Two somewhat sinister factors
emerged during the week. One
involved the timing of the visit
of Mr. Nehru to the United
States.
On Tuesday last it was an-
nounced in Washington that the
visitor had urged the United
States to take the lead in bring-
ing about early recognition of
the Communist Government.
His moves have been interpreted
in some quarters in Washington
as a feeler by proxy from Mr.
Attlee, who is said to be anxious
to recognise the newcomers
officially as early as possible.
That is sensible policy pro-
vided no strings are tied to the
recognition. The Chinese con-
quest of China is now fait
accompli whether anybody likes
it or not, and it will be impos-
sible to avoid recognition of the
new regime much longer, pro-
vided it is willing to deal on a
civilised diplomatic basis.
The military position had
reached another pause in its de-
velopment during the past week.
Early in the week Nationalist
forces were evacuating Swatow,
and it was reported in Hong
Kong that the Communist Army
was standing by and waiting for
them to leave so that it might
make a bloodless entry. The
Nationalist warriors are being
loaded into transports to be
carried to Formosa. Evidently
the Communists are not anxious
to court a repetition of the battle
for Amoy, which seems to have
been a pretty warm slugging
match for the artillery while it
lasted, topped off with a little
select hand-to-hand fighting.
In the west the Communists
had driven into North Kwangsi,
and early in the week were at
Chuanhsien.
Hong Kong took the arrival
of the Communist armies on its
borders with the usual calmness
of British colonies in such cir-
cumstances.
On Monday, October 17, the
Communists arrived in a couple
of border towns, one of which
was the railway crossing-place
of Shamshun. The troops, how-
ever, were only guerrillas who
drifted in and hoisted the Com-
munist flag on some of the prin-
cipal business buildings. They
took over Shamshun market as
h.q. and posted guards in the
streets.
About 300 Nationalist guards
were already negotiating to sur-
render. One or two soldiers of
the old regime were shot for
looting. Those who were not
shot were reported to be walk-
ing around Shamshun chatting
amicably with their prospective
captors and no doubt trading
them a few of the luxuries of
Hong Kong. The most pathetic
sight in Shamshun was reported
to be the hordes of Chinese rail-
way employees sitting discon-
solately to see whether they could
get -socialised jobs under the
new management.
A little over 1000 British
troops of the 26th Brigade of
the 40th Division were moved up
close to the border in the Sheung
Shui area, and the 27th Brigade
took over the Taku Ling district
for patrols.
The Communists are being
treated to the sight of Guards’
caps on Shamshun Cook’s bridge
and of Tommies moving round
in patrol-cars, radio-cars and
“dingoes.” The occupants of
these manifestations of a higher
civilisation have enjoyed in turn
the spectacle of Chinese soldiers,
coram populo, removing their
pants or other identifiable gar-
ments preparatory to going
civilian and crossing the 20ft.-
wide Shamshun into the blessed
freedom of Hong Kong territory,
into which refugees have been
streaming ever since the border
was open, many of them accom-
panied by their livestock (port-
able and otherwise).
Hong Kong itself shows little
outward sign of strain. The day
before the arrival of Communist
guerrillas on the border the usual
motor picnic parties were abroad
in leased territory, the usual life
went on in old Kowloon and in
Victoria.
The U.S. Attitude
It was reported from Washing-
ton on October 24 that Presi-
dent Truman intends to support
the defence of Hong Kong,
though whether with actual mili-
tary strength is not clear. How-
ever, it seems likely that the sup-
port would be effective and full,
since any attack on Hong Kong
would certainly violate every
principle of U.N.O. Activities
which have been going on in
the Philippines suggest that the
Americans are preparing at least
in the air.
Formosa is the key to the situ-
ation, and it is unlikely that the
United States will allow that
island to fall into the hands of
Moscow’s agents. Its strategic
importance is too great. The
fact that it is in danger of be-
coming Communist illustrates
the muddled state of affairs in
the Far East. Formosa has been
retrieved from Japan, but there


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
A
£)
Pi
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KUCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
FACING H PARK
The one thing yon will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and hustle. . . . The
Wentworth faces a part . . . yet
tt is merely "round the corner”
from the centre of the city. The
noma are all you would wish
. . . tfw service and cuisine
excellent
THE WENTWORTH
m
Thone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan. Managing Director
RtUtf';
BIdTCH?
SKIN
marred by spots,
rashes and pimples is
quickly cleared by
Cuticura Ointment. It as-
sures skin health. Always
keep a tin of Cuticura Oint-
ment in the house. Good for
cuts, bruises and sores. One
of the famous trio- Cuticura
Ointment. Soap and
Talcum Powder., 533
k
Cigarette Lighter Service
We stock spare parts for every well-
known make of Cigarette Lighter.
Send your defective lighter to us.
Repairs returned post free to any
address in the Cofhmonwealth.
ROLLS RAZOR
CO. OF AUBT. PTY., LTD.,
8» Castlereagh St., Sydney. BW 3038
Public Notice.
F, GIOVANNI POLI, of Italian nationality,
born at Fontionelle, Italy, and resident 10
years in Australia, now residing at Burra-
gorang, N.S.W., intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality and
Citizenship Act, 1948.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Equity.
No. 1360 of 1941.
In the Matter of Australia-Italia Shipping
Company Limited (in liquidation) and in
the Matter of the Companies Act, 1936.
Notice to Creditors and Contributories.
TAKE NOTICE that the 9th and 10th
Accounts Current with Plan of Return of
Capital, showing a return at the rate of
7.64 pence on Paid-up Capital to one
Contributory in respect of each Share
held by him are now filed in the office
of the Master in Equity, Supreme Court,
Elizabeth Street, Sydney, for the inspec-
tion of persons interested. And notice
is hereby given that such Accounts will
be submitted to the Master in Equity for
confirmation on Monday the 28th day of
November, 1949, at 11 a.m. if not pre-
viously objected to and that at the same
time the said Master will be asked to
authorise a Return of Capital in accord-
ance with such Plan, if not previously
objected to. Objections must be lodged
with the Official Liquidator not later than
Thursday the 24 th day of November,
1949. Dated the Thirteenth day of
October, 1949. —H. W. MACKISACK,
Official Liquidator, 28 O’Connell Street,
Sydney.
Personal and Missing Friends.
TO the next-of-kin of ANDREW
PERRETT, late of Rabaul, New Britain,
in the Territory of New Guinea, Road
Overseer, who became missing on the Ist
July, 1942, and is for official purposes
presumed to be dead. Please communicate
with the Curator of Intestate Estates of
the Territory of New Guinea, adminis-
trator of the estate of the abovenamed
deceased. Any person having information
which would be of value in tracing the
next-of-kin of the deceased is requested to
advise the undersigned.—H. W. HARDY,
Curator of Intestate Estates, Port Moresby,
Papua and New Guinea, 8/10/’49.
BINGLE, Charles Edward, formerly of
Young and Sydney, N.S.W., or anybody
knowing his whereabouts or having heard
of him, please communicate urgently with
KERSHAW MATTHEWS LANE & GLAS-
GOW, Solicitors, Box 93, G.P.0., Sydney.
1
m
w.
Distributed by
WILCOX MOFFLIN LTD
WITH THE PROVED
ROLLS COMBINATION
. . . PROVED by repeated tests to
give greater efficiency to any lighter.
ROUS LIGHTER FLUID
An entirely new, specially blended
fluid—deodorised, non oily, burns
with a clear flame and longer
lasting. 5 fluid ozs., 1/6.
With Dropper, 1/10.
ROLLS FLINTS
Made by the
makers of Rolls
Lighters. A
finely ground
English flint as-
suring consist-
ent sparking.
6d. a packet
of 6 flints.
£D
a
n
Ci
a***
i
w
a
! X\S
U>*
r
/i
sa
Pi
:j
BT APPOINTMENT
OBACCONIST? T(
TOBACCONIST? TO
MIS MAJESTY THt KING
In
IU MB MAItSIT IHe KINU
M d '“,l c . w SUPER VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
BY
Benson‘and Hedges
LTD
OLD BOND STREET , LONDON
There are times which
call for something better
than the merely very
good, and demand the
unquestionable best.
Where cigarettes are concerned
the man of taste is guided by
the words “ Benson & Hedges,
Old Bond Street, London 99
—for all those occasions
when only the best will do.
is still no Japanese peace treaty,
and Russia and its Communist
armies have settled all the prob-
lems of the mainland with their
Allies by force—seizing the ports
which were handed to them to
hold as a trust for their allies,
pillaging Manchuria of the mili-
tary and industrial resources
which it was intended should
belong to the Chinese National
Government and using them to
defeat the owners by military
attack.
Time was when the hard-
pressed British in Malaya and
China could have looked to this
country as part of the Empire
without question to shoulder the
obligations of partnership. But
the situation now is that in four
years the Socialists have dis-
membered the British Common-
wealth. Communist China is
little further from the hearts of
the present set of Ministers in
Canberra than Britain because it
is dear to the hearts of Messrs.
Thornton, Healy and the Aus-
tralian Communist party, which
controls so much of Labor’s
political fighting funds through
the unions.
Australia’s official obligations
in the Pacific zone, which Dr.
Evatt has always declared to be
his stamping-ground, seem to
have been whittled down to the
right to yell to somebody to
please come and protect us if
we should be menaced by an
outside Power.
Our Army.
“Ek Dum”: An answer to
Mr. A. G. Cameron, by
the gentle Mr. Chambers has
cpnfirmed the realisation of the
complete and utter failure of the
Commonwealth Government's
Army plans—if they were ever
expected to be anything but a
failure.
Out of 31,180, the full
strength, only 16,436 are
privates.
The position is much worse
than it appears on the surface,
since the figures are only paper
figures. It is bad enough that
the militia numbers, which
should be approaching 50,000 to
cover two divisions, are down in
the region of 13,000-15,000, with
the Government which has
allowed this disastrous state of
affairs to occur shouting that it
is proud of its accomplishments.
The real truth is that about two-
thirds of the strength is non-
effective.
There are no modern weapons,
no modern training by atomic-
age standards. Officers must dip
into their own pockets to carry
on even on the present meagre
scale.
The Permanent Forces scarcely
exist at all, except in the Staff
Corps, a body of enthusiasts who
deserve well of the country, but
who are allowed little scope
beyond that dictated by the fads
of very poor politicians to whom
any real defence activity is dis-
tasteful.
“S. M, Herald” was truthful
the other day when it declared
that Australia could not at
present put a brigade into the
field or a fighter squadron into
the air on short notice.
It is to be hoped that Can-
berra remains at peace with
New Zealand during the next
couple of years. Within a few
months that little country with
not much more than one-sixth
our population will be able to
give us a run for our money on
the ground.
So far all the complaint about
the state of military preparedness
has been met at Canberra with
vague talk about atom-age de-
fence and new weapons. But
the fact remains that the basic
need with weapons, new or old,
is a force drilled to a high state
of discipline and physical fitness
and expert in their use.
In the kind of warfare which
can be expected in the next con-
flict there will be no time to get
ready.
Yugoslavia Elected.
“Ek Dum”: The Attlee Gov-
ernment surely plumbed the
depths of shame in its foreign
relations when its delegate voted
for Czechoslovakia in the elec-
tion of a new member of the
Security Council. It voted for
that wretched colony of Moscow
at a moment when its Govern-
ment was transgressing every
principle which U.N.O. is sup-
posed to hold valid —when it
was carrying out a purge on the
Russian model and arresting the
diplomatic employees of our
ally, the United States, on pre-
texts as flimsy as any ever used
in Red Square.
There is certainly not very
much to choose between Yugo-
slavia and Czechoslovakia.
Those two hybrid and arti-
ficial countries, fashioned on
tyranny, murder and injustice,
are a good match for each other.
Australia chose Yugoslavia, no
doubt from a fellow-feeling, since
Canberra is trying to do just
exactly what the Tito Govern-
ment is trying to do —establish
its own brand of socialism,
which; though it is indebted to
Moscow for its theories and
objectives, would have an inde-
pendent existence.
The election seems finally to
put U.N.O. in its proper per-
spective. From now onward
occasions may arise at any time
in which the ruffian who rules at
Belgrade, who was a tool of
Moscow so long as it suited him
and who until recently was be-
hind the Greek guerrillas, will
have the casting vote in import-
ant matters which affect the
peace of the world in the body
which allegedly manages the
world’s concepts of international
security.
He comes to the task with his
hands dripping with as much
innocent blood as those of
Vishinsky, who rushed from the
election uttering threats which
should shake the confidence even
of Mr. Dedman that the world
can expect peace for years.
The men of El Alamein held a
moving commemoration service
in Sydney on October 22. The
veterans assembled in York-
street and, led by Brigadier
W. J. B. Windeyer, who com-
manded the 20th Brigade,
marched to the Cenotaph, where
the first wreath was laid by
Lieutenant-General Morshead,
and the second by Sister Rae
Fallick of the 2/3 Casualty
Clearing Stations, one of the
eight A.I.F. nursing sisters in-
volved in the battle. It was a
solemn ceremony, and was fol-
lowed by a reunion at the
Engineers’ Depot, Victoria
Barracks. It seems a pity that
El Alamein cannot be made an
official focus for the remem-
brance of those who fell in
World War 11, and in which
the Ninth Division held the pride
of position. It was a great battle
by any standard, and the turning-
point of the war on land.


a
lk
um
*
A
: ■ •*. <V;r, *
761 D-9.49
333
sr*t£ir\
333
IVW
\N
StCR^
iHt
m
7r
MODEL B. C. S. 49 5
GEHALE*
SEALED UNIT ELECTRIC
REFRIGERATOR
LOW DEPOSIT
£89.15.0 or TERMS
FROM 9'3 l WEEKLY
Operating on the principle of the SEALED UNIT, which
is guaranteed for five years, this Genalex model, tastefully
finished and extremely low in price, is ideally suited for
the smaller household.
Cabinet —"bonderised" steel.
Finish —white or ivory baked Dulux.
Capacity —4.s cubic feet.
Shelf area —lo square feet.
Dimensions —46|" high, 24" wide, deep.
Genalex Sealed Unit Refrigerators may be switched on or
off at will, without securing the services of a mechanic.
•
Larger sizes available.
ķ
(Sole Australian Representatives of
The General Electric Co • Ltd. of England)
SYDNEY . . . NEWCASTLE . . . MELBOURNE . . . PERTH
HOBART .. . LAUNCESTON ... BRISBANE .. . ADELAIDE
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
BRIDGEHEAD AT BONN.
While a good deal of British
Press comment on the current
German attempt to fashion, at
Bonn, a changed, democratic,
peaceful Germany is rather of
the guarded, wait - and - see
variety, London “Daily Mail” is
editorially optimistic and en-
thusiastic :
“The defeat of Socialism in
Germany [at the elections which
set up the new German Govern-
ment, with Dr. Konrad Ade-
nauer at its head] has led our
Socialists here [in Britain] to
wjite off the new democratic ex-
periment in advance. As usual,
they only believe in democracy
if their side wins.
“True, there are obvious rea-
sons for caution, but none for
defeatism. The rising tide of
nationalist feeling in Germany
—largely sponsored by the Left-
wing Social Democrats —should
not blind us to the fact that the
Bonn Parliament is as demo-
cratic an Assembly as we are
likely to see. It was freely
elected by four-fifths of those
eligible to vote. The parties are
overwhelmingly democratic, and,
of the new members, 157 have
had practical experience since
1945 in the democratically-
elected Land Parliaments.
“Government and Opposition
leaders have impeccable anti-
Nazi records, as has Federal
President Theodore Heuss.
In Germany, where the battle
is less Right versus Left
than Democrat versus Totali-
tarian, the new Government
needs all the help we can give
it.
“This does not mean appease-
ment. The Germans respect a
firm hand, as was shown when
we took armed action to stop
hooligan interference with dis-
mantling. But it does mean a
greater latitude for Germany in
some directions. Mr. Churchill
has made a powerful plea for
Germany’s admission to the
Council of Europe; though
foreign affairs are still reserved
to the occupying Powers, some
formula should be worked out
to enable Germans to attend in
a quasi-official capacity. /. .For
16 years these turbulent, unruly,
vital people have lived in isola-
tion. They should be allowed
to get abroad to find out what
people really think of them, and
how high their prestige could
stand.
“We do not advocate conces-
sions on principle. Germany
must be rendered powerless for
future harm ; but while we stand
firm on major issues we can
afford to relax on the smaller
ones, which are the most power-
ful irritants to a conquered
people.
“Those who live in Germany
today see perhaps a 50-50 chance
of Bonn being a bridgehead to
real democracy. The odds will
lengthen disastrously if Germany
is to be kept in Coventry—how-
ever richly it may be deserved.”
Nor is the Labor “Daily
Herald,” at a wide remove from
the “Daily Mail” in policy, far
behind it in optimism on this
particular score:
“Never has any modern
nation been so completely de-
stroyed as Germany was in
1945. Politically, industrially,
economically and socially, the
German people were shattered
by the collapse of a hateful
regime and its military conse-
quences.
“Such a collapse was nearly
as dangerous for the rest of
Europe as for the Germans
themselves. The peace and
health of a Continent depended
as much on the resuscitation of
a living, democratic Germany as
they had formerly depended on
the extermination of the Nazi
menace.
“The Bonn Constitution,
under which genuine elections
were held for the first time in
16 years and a democratic Gov-
ernment elected, has really be-
gun the renewal of what the
whole world hopes will be a
Germany with which we can
co-operate.....
“For already at Bonn we have
seen a rebirth of democratic
freedom which augurs well for
the future, not only of the Ger-
mans, but of all the rest of us
Europeans.”
To those comments may be
added —towards rounding out
the picture a little —one or two
significant statements by Federal
Chancellor Adenauer in giving
the Bonn Lower House the de-
claration of policy of his Gov-
ernment, For one thing, he
mentioned with feeling that from
1,500,000 to 2,000,000 German
p.-0.-w. have not yet been
accounted for by Russia.
Touching other dragon’s-
teeth sowing in the same
quarter. Dr. Adenauer declared
that “among the questions which
lay nearest to the heart of Ger-
many was that of the Oder-
Neisse line.” He recalled the
U.S.-British-Russian agreement
at Potsdam deferring the final
settlement of the western frontier
of Poland. “In no circum-
stances,” he insisted, “can we
agree to the one-sided separation
of this territory by Russia and
Poland.... We shall never cease
to prosecute, in a proper and
legal way, our claims to this
territory.” He further stated
that, while they wished to live
at peace with their eastern neigh-
bors, particularly with Russia
and Poland, “those Powers must
give us and our compatriots in
the Eastern Zone and Berlin the
right to live in freedom.”
As to the place of Germany
in the European scene. Dr.
Adenauer said there was no
question that they belonged to
the West European world: “The
centuries-old antagonism be-
tween Germany and France must
be finally banished from the
earth,” Of Britain, he welcomed
Mr, Bevin’s declaration that
“Our peoples must be friends.”
Of the U.S. “aid to Germans in
their direst need when hunger
and want reigned,” Dr. Ade-
nauer declared: “The German
people must never forget that,
and will not forget it.” All Ger-
mans, he also said, were united
in wishing to be accepted into
the European Union as soon as
possible.
U.S. Coms' Trial.
As cabled, the trial of the 11
leading U.S. Corns took a “sen-
sational” turn when, the jury
having found all 11 guilty, the
judge proceeded to sentence a
parcel of the defence lawyers to
tidy stretches of jail for con-
tempt.
Even with the sort of licence
that seems to rule in American
courts, that jailing should not
have been so surprising. All
through, the reports of the trial,
since it opened on January 17,
have indicated an amazing mea-
sure of patience in the judge.
Early in the piece he did sen-
tence five of the defendants
themselves to short terms for
contempt, and also suspended a
defence counsel or two, but, ap-
parently indifferent, he put up
with practically continuous
efforts by the defence to make
the court appear ridiculous. '
Once he happened to scratch
his head; instantly a defence
lawyer was on his feet accusing
him of thereby trying to influ-
ence the jury. There were
actually scores of similar ab-
surdities ; they went on all the
time, daily.
Evidently Judge Harold R.
Medina was simply giving the
defence lawyers enough rope to
hang themselves thoroughly.
Meanwhile the court record
built up almost 20,000 type-
written pages of testimony—
about 5,000,000 words. Sum-
marised by New York “Times”
when, last month, the defence
ended, the cases presented by
both sides in the eight-months’
accumulation of words and
antics were:
The prosecution case: In
1945 the defendants formed a
new Communist party after a
period in which Communists
worked through a “political
association” in the open. In so
doing they “conspired” (as
shown by secrecy and lying
under oath) to “advocate and
teach” overthrow of the Govern-
ment by force and violence.
Their guiding “model” for
“smashing the machinery of
government” is the Russian
Revolution of 1917; their
teachers and texts are those of
Russian Communism.
The defence case: The Com-
munist party does not advocate
violent overthrow; it is a bona
fide political organisation, not a
conspiracy. I n advocating
“revolution” it refers only to
sharp social upheaval any
“force and violence” would
come from a reactionary coun-
ter-revolution. The defendants
are on trial for their “ideas” —
for teaching the social science of
Marxism-Leninism, and such
a trial violates traditional
American rights.
Thus the presented cases as
concluded in September. The
New York paper anticipated at
the time that conviction of the
11 would not end the proceed-
ings. As it put it: “The deep
question of law involved in a
conviction would almost cer-
tainly go before the Supreme
Court. That court would then
have to make the final decision
as to whether or not Commun-
ism constitutes ‘a clear and pre-
sent’ danger to the United States
sufficient to warrant what many
consider abridgment of the
constitutional guarantees of
freedom of speech and
assembly.”
Hence a Supreme Court de-
cision upholding the convictions
would mean not only the
liquidation of Communism in
the U.S. but, with it, a justifying
of the considerable number who
hold that, in the face of Com-
munist aims and methods, the
most democratically - minded
nations have a compulsion on
them to strike back in simple
self-protection, and if a Consti-
tution denies right to do so it is
overdue for amending.
De Gaulle Has His
Doubts.
France’s latest Governmental
troubles quickly brought General
De Gaulle into the limelight,
with, among other doubts about
the alleged healthy state of his
country, insistence that optimistic
claims of recovery were as mis-
leading as the “sedative speeches
of pre-war leaders,” France’s
recovery resting on the “pre-
carious prop” of Marshall Aid,
but lacking the essential Gov-
ernment-guided French action in
support.
On France’s security through
various agreements, he declared
that the Atlantic Pact would have
been efficient if the United States
had kept the monopoly of the
atomic bomb, as this would have
been enough to discourage a
potential aggressor. But once
the secret of the bomb was


'V
I
ICI
SNIPE . . • a reliable gun* and a
full belt of Eley-Kynoch Grand Prix
Cartridges make a day’s shooting a sure
success. For dean-killing, reliable
shooting, ask your storekeeper for 8
or 10 shot Eley-Kynoch Grand
Prix Cartridges.
ELET-ETNOCH Shotgun CARTRIDGES
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
T8-18
known to both sides, the Pact,
in its present form, lost much of
its value. He expressed the very
widespread French view of
America’s commitment;
“The nation [France] should
be warned that nothing in that
Pact obliges or prepares the
United States to take any large
part in the immediate and direct
defence of thp Continent. So
long as Europe does not provide
a powerful and secure bridge-
head, we must not expect that
armadas will arrive to land
armies there.
“Britain, we know,” he added,
“would fight at once if the West
were attacked. We have taken
the measure of her determina-
tion. Myself and other French-
men are alive to bear witness to
it. But because of the develop-
ment of aviation Britain has
partly ceased to be strategically
an island. She is primarily con-
cerned with her own defence.
She would not risk sending the
bulk of her armies to the Con-
tinent, considering no doubt that
the lesson of 1940 was conclusive
in that respect. The conclusion
is that the responsibility for the
defence of metropolitan France
and her North African territory
rests, as ever, first and foremost
on Frenchmen alone.”
General De Gaulle offered two
prescriptions: that France must
reorganise its defences to become
once more a military Power that
the other nations of Europe
would look to with a new
respect; and that “Germany and
France must settle their differ-
ences without outside inter-
ference as a condition for the
establishment of European
unity.”
The U.S. Guarantee.
General de Gaulle’s doubts on
this score are most emphatically
countered by N. Y. “Herald
Tribune” writer Walter Lipp-
mann,
Lippmann expresses the
general American view that even
the strength the West, from
Norway round to Iran and in-
cluding Britain, can develop
with American lend-lease aid
would be no deterrent to Russia.
That might well be doubted,
but few —at any rate in America
—would question his finding
that all that at present restrains
Russian imperialist aggression
from turning to open war is the
U.S. guarantee embodied in the
Atlantic Pact:
“The deterrent to war resides
in the certainty that aggression
anywhere means an immense
and total war with the United
States. In such a war the United
States could and would mobilise
the greatest industrial power
that has ever existed. The
United States could not be de-
feated by the Red Army. It
would be virtually invulnerable
to attack. Unless its forces had
been foolishly dispersed and
committed, it would have enor-
mous striking-power and the
means to continue the war in-
definitely.
“That is what the American
guarantee means. It is as for-
midable a guarantee as was ever
set up, and no one can now plan
and produce a stronger guaran-
tee.”
Britain’s Air Lead.
Enthusiastically hailed in a
London “Spectator” editorial :
“The story of the recent
achievements of British aircraft
....has something of the
exhilarating sweep and force of
a successful military operation.
The surprise is there, the
tremendous impulse to the
morale of the attacking force —
in this case the men who de-
signed and built the machines —
and the salutary shock to the
world in general as one achieve-
ment succeeds another in quick
succession.
“This is the kind of
encouragement that British
industry and the British people
badly needed. After the amaz-
ing success of the first four-jet
airliner, the De Havilland
Comet, and the majestic start to
the flying career of the Bristol
Bfabazon I, the biggest civil
land-plane in the world, a whole
galaxy of new aircraft make
their appearance on a single
day and reveal the tremendous
progress which the British air-
craft construction industry has
been making in the past few
years,
“This is supremacy indeed, at
the point at which it counts
most —the point of the most ad-
vanced research and successful
experiment. The triangular
Avro 707; the English Electric
—Minneapolis (U.S.A.) "Star.”
“NOW YOU SEE IT, NOW YOU DON'T!”
jet-bomber Canberra I, which
shot off the ground like a fighter
and continued to behave like a
fighter from then on; the
tremendously fast Supermarine
510 and the Hawker 1052; the
vertical-flying Meteor —each of
these is a major achievement in
aircraft construction.”
The constructors being eager
to sell such products abroad,
“where military considerations
permit,” the “Spectator” com-
ments :
“They need not be inhibited
by the fear of giving away the
secrets of design, for they have
established a lead which the
most assiduous imitators cannot
catch up for many years.”
Communist
“Confessions.”
Possibly with doubts about its
first shot at explaining such
“confessions” as those in the
Rajk trial (quoted here, B.
19/10/’49), London “Times” re-
verted to the subject in a subse-
quent editorial.
“Mere brutality,” it argued,
“would not produce so convinc-
ing a result and would presum-
ably leave some mark on the
prisoners, who in this, as in
previous trials, have appeared
tired but in normal health.
“The most credible theory is
that Soviet psychologists have
perfected methods of mental
aggression which can be applied
with success to a great variety
of victims.
“It seems likely that those who
conduct the preliminary ex-
aminations exploit the prisoners’
conscientious scruples rather than
their fear of pain. The true
revolutionary has a strongly de-
veloped moral sense but few
fixed principles to inform it. He
must judge every problem of
conduct in isolation from every-
thing except the final goal, the
success of the revolution. To
convince such a man that he has
decided wrongly, and can only
redeem his fault by extravagant
confession, might riot be beyond
the power of experienced advo-
cates, trained in party casuistry
and working on someone re-
duced to exhaustion by ceaseless
argument and lack of sleep.
“However strong and clearly
defined their moral views, few
people could pass unscathed
through this experience, and
fundamentally the same method,
with suitable variations in
approach, might be applied to a
Communist Cabinet Minister and
a Catholic Cardinal.”
It still seems a . decidedly in-
adequate explanation, particu-
larly regarding Cardinal Minds-
zenty. The fact feat the “con-
fessors,” as noted, “appeared
tired but in normal health”
would argue only against actual
evident physical violence; it
would not be inconsistent with
the drug theory, or, if that is
discredited, with whatever are
the “mysterious and monstrous
methods of forcing confessions”
mentioned by Tito, who would
seem in a fair position to know.
West Trade With
China.
Noting that the Chinese
Communist leader, Mao Tse-
tung, had announced that “the
greedy capitalists, in their
hunger for markets, will be
forced to trade with him on his
own terms,” a Washington re-
port in N. Y. “Herald Tribune”
adds the comment: “If the
West proves him right, the West
deserves to lose Asia.”
It, however, sees no reason
why he should thus be proved
right. “The Chinese Com-
munists must trade with the
West, and they know it.” And
“It is quite possible so to con-
trol trade with China that the
threat of a partial or complete
economic blockade can become
a powerful instrument of policy.
“Mao Tse-tung has publicly
promised ‘material assistance’ to
the Communists in South-east
Asia. If Shanghai and other big
Chinese cities are not to wither
away, they must have what only
the West can supply—fuel, oil,
cotton, machinery, a dozen other
commodities. It must be made
crystal-clear to the Communist
leaders that infiltration or sup-
plying of arms to South-east
Asia, or pressure on Hong Kong,
or any other aggressive action
beyond China’s borders, will
mean economic blockade and
the death of Chinese industry.
Thus the Chinese Communists
can be constantly confronted
with the conflict between self-
interest and ideology which led
to Tito’s break with the Krem-
lin.”
Whoever the Chinese Com-
munist leader may have had in
mind, London “Economist” de-
clares it to be an “open secret”
that “British merchants would
like to defend their large in-
terests in China by working and
trading with the Communists to
the greatest extent that the Com-
munists are disposed to allow.”
Dragnet Digest.
Paging Mr. Solomon! —They would
seem to want him for an urgent job
adjacent to his old stamping grounds,
judging by a brief extract from a
“Manchester Guardian” editorial en-
titled “Jerusalem”: “There are two
obviously practicable ways of dispos-
ing of Jerusalem. One is the original
United Nations plan—a substantial
international enclave, neither Arab
nor Jewish, with a , United Nations
Governor. Everyone is willing to
have that except the two people on
the spot, Israel and Jordan. The
other is to split the city in two, the
New City to Israel, the Old City to
Jordan. The people on the spot
might agree on that, but nobody else
will.”
* * * *
Crowded Jails. —Not for close on
40 years have Britain’s jails been as
packed as they are now. Anyone in
a hurry to blame it all on the war
should have another thought: it was
before the first of the world wars
(1911, to be precise) that the jail
numbers were up to the present
dard. The official explanation B,
that the big number now is brought
about by a greater proportion (than
in recent past years) of long sen-
tences; these for indictable offences.
The total figure is some 20,000, with
a good many of them sleeping three
in a cell, “though discomfort has
been mitigated by tiered bunks.”
* * * *
Freeing the £. —London “Daily
Express” further advocating freeing
the £ (already noted here in earlier
extracts): “Why do the Socialists
refuse to let the £ fly? Because they
realise that the whole system of cdn-
trols which they have consolidated
depends on the Government’s control
of the currency. Once you make the
value of the £ dependent not on
some decision of politicians in con-
clave, but on open, world-wide
opinion, the whole apparatus of con-
trols is exposed for what it is worth
in a world of plenty. A free £ would
change the face of the nation’s
present dismal economy in no time.”
* * * *
Indo-China Warriors. London
“Economist” quotes Paris “Figaro”
for the total number of men under
arms on the French side in Indo-
China being now 230,000, of whom
44,000 are French, 66,000 French-
African and Foreign Legion troops,
and 120,000 Indo-Chinese. The
number of directly French troops is
stated to have been reduced to the
present figure from 72,000 at the
beginning of 1947; the war, appar-
ently, being “unpopular” among
French conscripts. The Foreign
Legion forces, however, have mean-
time been increased, and certainly by
remarkable means: “France has been
charged with recruiting for this force
not only numerous displaced Poles,
Yugoslavs and Hungarians, but also
Germans from the French occupation
zone, who go through a form of
becoming Displaced Persons before
being enlisted.”
* * * *
Trade’s Little Ironies. —As well as
the fact that Czechoslovakia is able
to compete damagingly against
British textiles with wool bought by
the Czechs through a credit to them
from the Austrahan Government, a
London “Times” special correspon-
dent notes the further ironical fact
that, whereas Canada has banned
exports of nickel to Russia (which
has plenty supplies of its own, any-
how), Canada goes on exporting the
same article to Czechoslovakia (which
hasn’t supplies). And thus the Skoda
works are enabled to go on turning
out —as they have been doing—large
numbers of tanks, guns anti other
war requirements—of course for
Russia.
* * * *
American Legion. —Counterpart of
our ex-servicemen’s organisations, the
American Legion is claimed by “New
York Times” as the largest organisa-
tion of “veterans” in the world —
3,000,000 members, organised into
17,339 posts or branches. One strik-
ing feature that Australia can’t
match is that President Truman (an
artilleryman in France in World War
I) is a member; other members (of
course by virtue of active military
service) include Secretary of the
Treasury Snyder, Secretary of De-
fence Johnson, Mayor of New York
O’Dwyer, and almost half of the
members of Congress.


ĸ
“Co-operation like this
makes things happen fast!”
JtH
eHSS
I'd be lost without the services of my local
8.0.A.C. Appointed Agent. He’s the chap—
multiplied 3,500 times throughout the world —
who saves me hours of preliminary planning.
Yes, my Agent makes things happen in a hurry.
And he knows the answers to all my riddles
about currency restrictions, baggage allowances,
visas and regulations. I give him my itinerary and leave the details
to him. He handles everything without fuss or confusion. All I
do is pack a bag and leave on schedule.
This same Speedbird efficiency—this same concern for your com-
fort and pleasure—applies wherever you may fly along 150,000
miles of 8.0.A.C. routes to forty-two countries on five continents.
The flight itself is swift and sure—comfortable, too. You enjoy
complimentary meals, and there are no
extras for the countless attentions and
courtesies that make your journey so much
more enjoyable. It’s all part of 8.0.A.C.’s
30-year-old tradition of Speedbird service
and experience.
1
N
GREAT BRITAIN • USA • BERMUDA • CANADA • MIDDLE EAST
WEST AFRICA • EAST AFRICA • SOUTH AFRICA • PAKISTAN • INDIA
CEYLON • AUSTRALIA • NEW ZEALAND • FAR EAST • JAPAN
B.O. AX. TAKES GOOD CARE OF YOU
Fir -B O A C
AIO/AU
Information & Bookings : Qantas Empire Airways Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Townsville, Cairns, Darwin (General Agents in
Australia) or from Booking Agents in all cities.
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION
IN ASSOCIATION WITH Q.E.A., S.A.A., T.E.A.L.
A CASE OF
ENLARGED
TYRE HEART
/
OP
CTO
c
S-P
"‘ft 1,4 i
Stretched, patched and
worn tubes mean trouble
— possibly accidents
All tubes stretch in use and that is where trouble
starts. Old tubes lose air, and while a
"flat" can be annoying, half-flat tyres
overheat and may
blow out. Don't
take risks! A
small outlay
on new Good-
year Tubes will
protect your
tyres, yourself
and your family.
GOODJYEAR
HEAVY DUTY TUBES
Every new tyre deserves a NEW Goodyear Tube
• " T9-1G9
vOtttW®*
HtW «****
vj\W
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM ' S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“My parents say it is bad for a
girl to go out with two or three chaps
at the same time.”
—Correspondent to Dorothy Dix.
Four is a bit of a crowd.
4* 4* 4*
“Citizens of Sydney are anxious to
know when the chimes of the G.P.O.
(Sydney’s Big Ben) will be restored.”
—Magazine item.
Australians are more worried
about the possibility of another
big Ben being restored in
December.
4* 4* 4*
“Guests up to 100 m.p.h. swept
the area.” — “S. M. Herald.”
The place was cleaned up in
no time.
4* 4* 4*
“The colorful Sydney Max Falstein,
Labor Member for Watson, is poised
delicately on the edge of yet another
political precipice.”
—Sydney "Sunday Sun.”
About time he took a tumble.
“Victorian Liberal Harold Holt
found a chink in the Chifley armor.”
—Sydney "Sunday Telegraph.”
More likely in Galwell’s.
•4* 4* 4*
Exchange.
Her luscious lashes flicked
suspiciously as she caught his
profile reflected by the con-
tinental roadster’s dashboard-
light. Had he any sterling
qualities? As he lit her cigarette
she noted the gold cuff-links, the
impeccable bow-tie, the im-
maculate tuxedo, his debonair
yet slightly cynical manner, and
as she puffed out a cloud of im-
ported tobacco-smoke she sank
deeper into the lush upholstery
and pondered.
“Comfy?” he asked casually.
Almost too casually, she thought.
Her eyes grew wide. There was
something about his overseas
accent that made her shiver.
She’d have to watch her step.
She crossed her nylons carefully
and glanced at the petrol-gauge
as she answered “Quite.” Her
reply was low and demure yet
fraught with apprehension, and
she moved sideways towards the
car door as he pressed towards
her with a clutching hand and
the glint of evil in his eye. She
avoided his arm, tore open the
door, and with a cry of “You
worthless cur!” swung out and
ran far into the night, leaving
him completely devalued.
Jonas Dill.
4* 4* 4*
“For sale: Youth’s dinner suit,
almost new £5, also large canary cage,
new 12/6.” — Suburban paper.
This bird has outgrown his
surroundings.
4* 4* 4*
“Make certain that you look
exactly like yourself.”
— Woman’s paper.
Two-faced females should
make doubly sure.
“Vic Brown made a splendid 100
not out on the rain-damaged wicket.
He hit 13 hours.” —Sydney “Sun.”
Timing his strokes perfectly.
Paradise Regained.
“Clarence Lang, of Los Angeles,
is seeking divorce on the ground that
his wife deceived him by allowing
him to think he was her fifth hus-
band when really he was her
seventh.” — Sydney “Sunday Sunt”
A man has reason to be peeved
Whose wife has cruelly deceived
Him on the order of his queue-
ing
To win the favor of her hand.
And anyone can understand
His disenchanted legal suing.
Yet if he had the saving grace
To look his problem in the face
He'd soon discover some small
leaven
Of consolation for his vows
On realising that his spouse
Had found in him her seventh
heaven.
BERT.
Very Effective.
“After the Opposition parties had
protested against the Government’s
using a big fleet of cars to transport
guests to the expensive junketings at
the official inauguration of the Snowy
Mountain scheme at Adaminaby, 100
miles from Canberra, it was officially
stated that, while admitting that a
‘considerable quantity’ of petrol had
been used, orders had been given
for ‘counterbalancing economies’ by
Commonwealth vehicles during the
next few weeks.”
So determined, in fact, was
the Government to see that its
counterbalancing Economy
Drive was properly “imple-
mented” that it had created a
temporary organisation to
administer it: The Counter-
balancing Economy Drive
Board.
Its (temp.) chairman (£l5OO
p.a., plus allowances and ex-
penses) was, of course, an ex-
Left-wing union secretary who
had been voted out of his job
while he was at a Moscow con-
ference, and he was thus un-
fortunately unable to supervise
the ballot.
Within three days his original
staff of two had grown to 38,
and he had obtained approval
for the appointment of 25 field
sub-inspectors to police the
petrol economies. The grand
objective was the saving by
counterbalance of the 2000 gal-
lons that had been blown out
the exhausts of the pleasure fleet
on its way to a free feed.
For the chairman’s exclusive
use a fluid-drive Chrysler had
been made available. This
Ministerial cast-off, however,
was rejected by the chairman
first on the grounds of dignity,
and secondly because the engine
of this ancient vehicle—it was
fully three years old —would
have been too heavy on juice.
He was therefore given in lieu
a 1949 Buick, the necessary dol-
lars being allocated because of
the vital dollar-saving nature of
its user’s work.
There being no office-space
available for the new (temp.)
board in Canberra, headquarters
were established in Sydney, that
city being selected in the interests
of economy as being closest to
the A.C.T. Luxury offices were
selected and tenants peremptorily
given notice to quit.
Cars also were allocated to
the (temp.) deputy-chairman,
the (temp.) accountant, (temp.)
chief clerk, (temp.) chief-inspec-
tor and (temp.) deputy chief-
inspector. In the interests of
dollar-saving the h.p, of these
were all strictly limited to 30.
The 25 sub-inspectors had to put
up with new cars of only 20 h.p.
Results, the chairman proudly
announced after the first week
of the board’s operations, had
been brilliantly successful. One
of the sub-inspectors had, near
Goulburn, intercepted a five-ton
Government truck bound from
Sydney to Canberra carrying
only a 71b. packet of nails for
a construction job. Deeming,
after due consideration, that it
was well below its full capacity,
he ordered it to wait while he
contacted Sydney and Canberra.
Three days later he obtained the
deputy chief-inspector’s approval
to order the truck back to
Sydney to pick up two tack-
hammers which a trailer-truck
had left Canberra to collect.
Another sub-inspector, cruising
about in his car, noticed
that a number of vehicles
used by departmental heads
were left standing with the
engines running while the
heads concerned were either
at conferences at various parts
of the city or were at lunch;
this was established practice
with Government cars, in case
the heads had to rush out from
one conference or lunch to go,
in a hurry, to another confer-
ence, or another lunch, or a
game of billiards. Being sharp-
eared, the sub-inspector had
noticed that the engines were
running faster than was abso-
lutely necessary. After ex-
haustive tests it was found, prac-
ticable to alter the idling-jets of
the carburettors so that instead
of wasting a gallon an hour only
“Blast it —no needles !”
seven-eighths of a gallon was
wasted. The saving on this alone
was estimated to be enormous.
Perhaps the economy of which
the new board was most proud
was that in connection with the
numerous cases where the Com-
munist-controlled Miners’ Fed-
eration ordered Ministers to go
to Newcastle to discuss with the
Central Executive its latest
series of threats against the
“Government” if it weren’t given
all it demanded.
It had been the general prac-
tice for each Minister to take
with him in his car his private
secretary and his own industrial
liaison-officer. It was the bril-
liant (temp.) deputy-chairman
who more than justified the
salary-increase of £5OO p.a.
which the chairman specially
recommended as a reward for
his hitting on the idea that
where, say, three Ministers had
to make the trip to appeal to
Federation officials not to em-
barrass the “Government,” only
one industrial liaison-officer
was necessary. The board cal-
culated that by thus lightening
the load on two cars an esti-
mated saving of li gallons of
petrol would result on the round
trip.
Counting the many necessary
trips taken by the (temp.) chair-
man and (temp.) deputy-chair-
man between Sydney and Can-
berra to supervise the board’s
“drive,” at the end of four weeks
only 3000 gallons of petrol had
been expended in saving 760
gallons in counterbalanced
economies.
This startling success made it
a certainty that, like all tempo-
rary taxes, the temporary Petrol
Counterbalancing Economy
Board will be made a permanent
feature, and that the imminent
expansion of its personnel to
about 800, with a consequent
rise of its chairman’s salary to
£5OOO p.a., will automatically
follow.
BO.


Face Facts
40
SHAVING AREA
SQUARE INCHES
It may surprise you to know that
the shaving area of the average man’s face
is 40 square inches; but it is a fact. Every morning
your razor blade must shave one day’s growth of hair
from the uneven surface of your face.
Such work demands the keenest, strongest edge that
modern research and manufacture can produce.
Men who face facts shave themselves quickly, simply,
and economically by using Blue Gillette Blades.
<s>
c;
CV
o
sS'
*Good Mornings' begin with Gillette
BLUE
Gillette
BLADES
TEH FOR 3/- FIVE FOR 1/6 I
3/169
Hour of chatter and charm, when friends
meet happily. Hour of skilful
entertaining, with knowing hostess
making clever cocktails from Vickers Gin and
simple ingredients. Vickers - always
Excellent, always satisfying
is the universally accepted
drink of the times.
the Gin with he
m.
i
w
/
■A
>
hm
« :
FAMOUS SINCE 1750
VQSA/I6
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Keen to compare and weigh up the
prospects of leading Derby and Mel-
bourne Cup candidates, a very large
crowd turned up at Moonee Valley
on Saturday, but the complete up-
setting of their preconceived notions
in both principal races left students
of form more than a shade be-
wildered. Among horses who did not
win were Vagabond, Carbon Copy,
Comic Court, Iron Duke and
Thracian Lad, who, prior to Satur-
day, had, in that order, headed Mel-
bourne Cup betting charts. Of them,
the only one for whose performance
much could be said was Comic Court.
The penalty clauses attached to
major handicaps are, no doubt, a
somewhat necessary evil, but they do
have some unfortunate effects.
Indeed, in Queensland not so very
long back the penalty clauses of the
Doomben Ten Thousand led one
minor club to take the remarkable
step of reducing its prizemoney in
order to attract entries. Saturday’s
Moonee Valley Gold Cup carried
£5OOO prizemoney and a £250 trophy,
yet a bigger and far better-class field
accepted for the W. S. Cox Plate of
£1450 plus trophy, which, being a
weight-for-age race, carried no risk
of penalty.
Of the most-fancied Melbourne
Cup candidates only Carbon Copy
contested the Valley Cup, connec-
tions no doubt reasoning that a win
on Saturday with 9.3 would hardly
result in any addition to the 9.7 he
already has in the Melbourne Cup.
Punters were interested in nothing but
Carbon Copy, the betting being 12
to 1 bar one, with Carbon Copy at
11 to 8 on. Weight, class of opposi-
tion, everything seemed in Carbon
Copy’s favor —everything, at least,
except the history of the race, a
glance at which shows that it has,
in a vast majority of cases, been won
by comparative lightweights. Since
1883 only four horses have won
Moonee Valley Cups carrying 9st. or
over (the last Nightly in 1934), and
with each of the four exceptions the
distance of the race was less than
its present 13 furlongs.
Certainly the hoodoo on topweights
proved too much for Carbon Copy,
who, just plodding along in third
place at the finish, ran one of his
most disappointing races. Nor was
there any excuse for the favorite’s
performance. Jockey A. Breasley
gave the big chestnut every chance,
but in the straight he was left stand-
ing by both Hoyle and Precedent,
with the margins 2 lengths and 2\
lengths. Ridden by R. Hutchinson
and carrying a mere 7.7, Hoyle was
always close to the front, and led
into the straight. From a Melbourne
Cup viewpoint, however, the effort
of Precedent looked the better per-
formance; the Zaimis four-year-old
carried 8.2, and made up a lot of
ground in the short straight.
If the results of the Caulfield and
Moonee Valley Cups can be con-
sidered prophetic Heaven only
knows what’s likely to pop up in
the Melbourne Cup. The Caulfield
Cup winner Lincoln, an aged horse,
had, in a long career, won only three
races prior to his Cup victory. Also
aged (a son of Mr. Standfast-Wise
Lady), Hoyle had had only two pre-
vious wins; he scored in a £5O welter
at Wagga (N.S.W.) in 1946 and
scraped home by a half-head in a
12-furlongs handicap at Caulfield a
couple of weeks back,
A splendid win by Delta in the
Cox Plate rather supported the hard-
luck tales advanced on behalf of the
Midstream colt after he had been
beaten both in the Rosehill Guineas
and the A.J.C. Derby. In those
races Delta was beaten respectively
by Thracian Lad and Playboy; both
contested the Cox Plate, and neither
was ever in the hunt. To defeat
Comic Court by a half-length in the
Plate, Delta was ridden a perfect
race by N. Sellwood, who, it is re-
ported, has now asked to be relieved
of his engagement to ride Vagabond
in the Cup. Dashing to the front
rounding the turn, Delta fought on
gamely to hold off Comic Court, who
finished late after being trapped in a
pocket. Delta’s was an outstanding
Derby trial, and that of Comic Court,
though he did not win, a first-rate
Melbourne Cup preliminary. Good,
too, was the effort of Persist in
holding off Iron Duke to gain third
money. Previously mentioned here
as a very likely customer among the
lightweights in the Cup, Persist seems
to be doing everything asked of her
in a Cup preparation which was
mapped out months ago and which
should have her in peak form on
the first Tuesday of November. At
weight-for-age in the Cox Plate Per-
sist carried 8.9, against her Cup
weight of 7.12; Comic Court carried
his Cup weight of 9st.
One scarcely knows what to make
of Vagabond. If there was any
excuse for his inglorious performance
in the Cox Plate it was certainly not
the one advanced more than once in
the past, that he had been beaten
by a heavy track. Vagabond im-
pressed neither as a justifiable Cup
favorite nor as a horse who would
have the faintest chance of beating
Comic Court at level weights.
Actually, in regard to performances,
Vagabond is probably the worst-
handicapped horse in the field. When
weights were issued, with both Vaga-
bond and Comic Court on the 9st.
mark, Vagabond had won one race;
Comic Court had won the Victoria
“Come an' have a drink—this is boring me stiff!”
Derby and St. Leger and eight other
races.
Pretty well the pick of the Derby
colts contested the Cox Plate, and
Delta made a pretty thorough job of
outclassing the others, who were
Iron Duke, St. Comedy and the
A.J.C. Derby-winner Playboy. Other
three-year-olds had a crack in the
mile Greenvale Handicap, in which
Achilles, winning well from Regal
Scout and Patron, showed something
of the form earlier expected of him;
but it is difficult to envision his
beating the consistent Delta. Very
lightly-raced, Delta has had only nine
starts, resulting in four wins, three
seconds, a third and once unplaced.
Overseas scientists, it is understood,
have invented a mechanical brain;
just feed in all the relevant data at
one end and out comes the answer
at t’ other. For students trying to
sort out the bewildering confusion
of Melbourne Cup form such a
machine would be a distinct advance
on the crystal ball currently in
vogue. Every horse that faces the
barrier in a Melbourne Cup is a
potential winner, but, trying to narrow
them down a bit (without final ac-
ceptances as a guide), Comic Court,
Persist, Precedent, Royal Tan, Count
Cyrano and Foxzami at least have
a good deal to be said for their
prospects.
In narrowing ’em down to that
bunch we are bypassing a number of
good horses for reasons that they are
either too old in the tooth, too
unfavorably handicapped, lacking in
recent form, or deemed unlikely to
see out two miles. However, to the
possibles mentioned might be added
whichever of the three-year-olds
should show Cup form in the Derby.
A good three-year-old is always
favorably placed in a Melboprne Cup,
but the youngsters have not, in
recent years, been winning the big
race as frequently as they did in
other days. Of the past 27 Cups,
only four have been won by three-
year-olds (the last Skipton in 1941),
whereas in a similar period prior to
that three-year-olds won a dozen
Cups.
* * H: *
Big fields of poor-quality horses
or, in the case of a couple of
two-year-old events, unknown quan-
tities constituted the fare at Rosehill
on Saturday, and, not surprisingly,
some wild and woolly ones came to
light. Such of the ladies as have a
penchant for picking 100-to-l shots
on the tote had a field day, with
dividends running to such fancy
figures as £29 6s. 6d. for five bob.
The best-class fields (since at least
they have yet to be proven otherwise)
contested the Maiden Nursery events,
24 fillies running in one and 22 colts
and geldings in the other. The
youngsters this year look a fairly
promising bunch. Stylish winner of
the event for fillies was Happy May,
a daughter of Mayfowl-Happy Fate,
and, like her sire, a grey. Place-
getters were Rippling Tide and
Channel Storm, both black fillies by
the imported Channel Swell, who is
meeting with rapid success with his
first crop. The other Nursery went
to the Manitoba colt Iroquois, just
lasting it out to pip the odds-on
favorite Beau Gene, with Rumyle, a
son of Whirlaway, third. Both two-
year-old winners were ridden by E.
Doon, and Iroquois paid £l9 4s. 9d.
for a win and £3 14s. 6d. for a place
on the tote.
The Flying Handicap (6£f.) saw
another grey successful, the Roxburgh
five-year-old Blue Ensign scoring in
runaway fashion from Cognac and
Smooth Action. Blue Ensign started
at 14 to 1, favorite being the rather
faint-hearted Heroic Sovereign, who
finished fourth. The bookies raked
it in again when, in the October
Handicap (10f.), the first five horses
in the betting couldn’t manage to fill
a place between them in a field of
10. Winner, at 9 to 1, was the New
Zealand-bred Galway Bay (R. Mar-
tin), a five-year-old mare by Salma-
gundi from Lochoribb. Galway Bay
may win better races —it was her
second win from the three starts she
has had in Australia.
* * * *
For Moorefield (before accept-
ances) :
Juvenile Stakes: Beau Gene, 1;
Court Session, 2; Iroquois, 3.
Brighton Mixed (6f.): Cabaret, 1;
Marie Jay, 2; Sun Dancer, 3.
Kogarah Mixed: Le Petit Due, 1;
Chancellor, 2; Man at Arms, 3.
Rockdale Mixed: Purple Prince, 1;
Maranga, 2; Leonardo, 3. Flying;
Tynedale, 1; Trover, 2; Moora
Binda, 3. Moorefield Handicap:
Lone Duke, 1; Hava Chat, 2; Gal-
way Bay, 4. Welter; Atherdon, 1;
Farhad, 2; Thimble, 3.
For the Victoria Derby: Delta, 1;
Iron Duke, 2; Playboy, 3.
For the Melbourne Cup: Persist,
1; Comic Court, 2; Count Cyrano,
3; Royal Tan, 4.
♦** * •
The Australian cricketers opened
their S’African tour with a match
v. Zululand at the weekend; as the
first touring side to visit the area the
boys were given a much more hearty
welcome than was customarily ac-
corded the paleface in the not-so-
distant past, but they unkindly repaid
this hospitality by giving the Zulu-
landers an unmerciful hiding. The
Australians dosed their first innings
at eight for 401, and in reply the
locals could only amass 52 and 69;
over the two innings only four
players of the home side managed to
reach double figures, Rutherfoord top-
scoring with 19 in the second dig.
For the Australians Sam Loxton
notched up the first century of the
tour with a knock of 117.
* * * *
Sheffield Shield cricket kicks off
with Q’land v. N.S.W. in Brisbane
on Friday. A surprising absentee
from the Queensland team will be
Australia’s Test ’keeper Don Tallon,
who set selectors back on their heels
with the bright suggestion that he
was available for selection, but not
as a wicketkeeper. Don avows that
he is a better slow bowler than
wicketkeeper, which seems to amount
to very high praise of other Aus-
tralian ’keepers.
* * * *
Returned to Australia last week a
first-rate all-rounder in B. H. (“Jika”)
Travers, who had been in England
since the end of the war on a Rhodes
Scholarship and subsequently teach-
ing at Wellington College. Travers
captained the Oxford Rugby Union
team, represented England in half-a-
dozen Rugger matches, and also
played cricket for Oxford. Playing
in 10 of Oxford’s 11 first-class cricket
matches last season, Travers wound
up with a batting average of 29.22
and took 15 wickets at an average
of 30 apiece.
* * * *
The body which controls boxing in
France has come to light with the
most progressive step taken in the
game since the Marquess of Queens-
berry first introduced a little order
into proceedings. In future bouts in
France, if a fighter is knocked down
he must stay down until the count
of eight, and any boxer knocked out
must give the game away completely
for one month. Both excellent rules;
if a fighter can be disqualified for
going down without being hit he cer-
tainly should be disqualified if, hav-
ing been knocked down, he’s mug
enough to get up and be hit again.
* * * *
Bantamweights Keith Francis (8.5|)
and Johnny Gleeson (8. furnished
as pretty a fight as has been seen
at Leichhardt in ages, and the crowd
showed its appreciation by refraining
from the usual vociferous disapproval
of the decision, which, in this case,
was awarded to Francis Both boys
boxed brilliantly, with Gleeson often
the more aggressive, but Francis, con-
sistently beating his opponent to the
punch, built up a slender winning
margin of points.


k
No. 3 of a
Series
-m
m
hr m
"SOMETHING WORTH HAVING" was the claim
made when such Oil Engines as this were in popular
use in Australia in the 'teens of this century. Thou-
sands of diem are still running as steadily and
economically as die day they were bought, thanks
to the strict standards of Reliability insisted upon by
the founders.
KoeaMson-TippeU Engines of to-day, vastly improved
in design, are built to die highest standards of
modem engineering practice, hence their recognition
as the outstanding power units of modem times.
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT LTD.
Head-Office: Ballarat, Victoria. Showrooms: 628 Bourke St., Mel-
bourne. N.S.W. Distributors: Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Ltd., 42
Bridge St., Sydney. Q’land Distributors: Ronaldson Tippett (Qld.)
Pty., Ltd., Scottish Union House, 127 Eagle St., Brisbane.
ROMLDSONTIPPETT
ENGINES
Better for School Books
They stand the rough
end tumble. They're lighter
and easier to carry.
Ask first for
SCHOOL CASES
a
.
~MAOf 6/
FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
0
'V:
as in great
grandfather’s day—
Pastoralists profit from
the complete and efficient
service of A.M.L.&F.
Sale of wool • Stock and produce
Pastoral finance • Station requirements
AML*
Inc. in England 1863
AUSTRALIAN, MERCANTILE, LAND & FINANCE COY. LID.
Head Office for Australia: 4 BLI6H STREET, SYDNEY
and at Melbourne and Brisbane.
Country Branches— N.8.W.: Newcastle, Wagga, Henty, Hay. Cowa, Scone,
Moree, Qarah, Wee Waa, Brewarrina. Q’ld: Charlevine. St.
George, Ounnamulla, Dirranbandi. Mcp h e & Co. i>ty.,
Ltd., Toowoomba, Oakey, Dalby and Pittsworth. V-ic.: Wodonga.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.
Cattle for the Gulf.
“Archaps”: There has been
a lot of talk lately about special
breeds of cattle to meet special
climatic conditions, and the
Queensland Director of
Veterinary Services (J. C. I.
Maunder), after a tour of the
Gulf country from Cairns to the
Gilbert, Staaten and Mitchell
Rivers’ districts, stated that the
breed (or combination of breeds)
of cattle most able to cope with
the conditions existing there had
not yet been evolved.
By virtue of rainfall and good
natural water, the country is very
safe for breeding, and every
holding seems able to turn stores
off every year, whereas in some
other areas the turn-off is
affected by droughts, or, by con-
dition of the stock-routes. On
the other hand, young cattle do
not grow well there, and this
must be due to the comparatively
low nutritive value of the natural
pastures.
It is hard, says Maunder, to
visualise that area as a fattening
proposition. If people did try to
fatten there, it would probably
result in a lower turn-off than
was now possible, because it
would interfere with their breed-
ing programmes, and the mixture
of five- to six-year-old bullocks
amongst breeders would cause a
considerable drop in actual
brandings
The Devon-Shorthorn cross
predominated, but there were
some Herefords and Hereford
crosses. The Devon-Shorthorn
cross seems to breed well, be-
cause although most stations had
a bad time in 1946 the brandings
in the Gulf this year will be
equal to the best years, showing
that losses have been replaced.
Owing to the nature of the
rivers and watercourses, and the
low elevation of the forest
country between the rivers, risk
from flood losses is greater in
many areas than from drought
losses. In one area during a big
wet season the whole of the
country for about 80 miles would
be under water.
Controlling Mastitis.
111.
“J.R.D.”: Use of the strip-
cup at the beginning rather than
at the finishing-off of each cow
is recommended to pick up signs
of mastitis infection in the milk.
But by thorough sampling, the
vet. is able to pick cows with
affected quarters that show no
visible signs of the disease and
that may be acting as carriers in
the herd. A sample of milk is
taken from each quarter and sent
to a laboratory for testing. The
result, plus the vet.’s experience,
enables him to put in front of
the farmer the complete picture
—number of cows infected in
one quarter or in two, number
of strep, cases, number of staph.
Some quarters may be too far
gone and can only be sterilised,
but a programme for immediate
treatment can be outlined. The
vet. can make recommendations
on the spot for prevention of the
disease and impart sufficient in-
formation to enable the owner
to treat future cases himself.
Armed with that knowledge, he
will realise the possibilities and
limitations of penicillin, and by
commencing treatment as soon
as the symptoms appear will
attain a minimum loss of pro-
duction. And further, having
established relations with the
vet., who doesn’t like long
mileages, either, much advice
and information will be obtain-
able by phone in future to the
mutual advantage of all con-
cerned.
A Balanced Pasture.
“M.”: To produce grass in
sufficient quality to balance a
clover-dominant pasture in the
first season use a fairly heavy
seeding rate to the acre, say 51b.
to 61b. In high-rainfall country
use perennial rye; in districts
with a 25in. fall a mixture of
perennial and Wimmera rye ; in
the lower-rainfall areas Wim-
mera rye alone.
The seeding rate isn’t too high
when it’s considered that the rye
has to compete with very strong
clover growth. When the rye
is well-established, give the
pasture a heavy grazing for a
short period, spell for a month,
and repeat the grazing. This
will keep the clover in check
and give the grass a chance to
assert itself. A disc drill is
the best implement to work the
grass-seed into the sward.
Cutting Glass.
“Doodit”: That otherwise
sound advice (B, 5/10/’49) is
astray in tolerances. Deductions
of l-16in. for cutting and l-16in.
for play in window-frame glass
28/9/’49), even though “Milo”
asks how the plough is going to
regenerate them. He then states
that graziers sobbed when first
Bathurst and then Noogoora
burr arrived on Peak Downs. I
take it from this that when mint-
weed, saffron-thistle, speargrass
and white-spear arrived the
graziers welcomed them with
lamentations, not knowing, ap-
parently as “Milo” does, that
the invasion would improve
their pastures.
In his satisfaction at getting
more wool from no more sheep
than the State had 50 years ago,
“Milo” is simply offsetting the
“I wish you hadn't been reared on a dairy-farm, boss!"
are insufficient; iin. should be
allowed in each instance.
Cutting the glass is the
amateur’s most difficult task ; he
therefore shouldn’t risk breaking
his new pane by fixing it into
position incorrectly. First re-
move all loose dry putty from
bed of frame or bottom of
rabbet. Next lay |in. thickness
of putty on bed of rabbet on
which to bed glass, which should
be pressed firmly into position
by rubbing points of fingers
around surface on all sides.
Then secure the pane by driv-
ing a iin. brad into the frame
on each side of the pane-face.
Don’t use a hammer; use an inch
or larger chisel. Slide chisel on
face of glass and strike brad with
side of chisel, Finishing-putty
should extend no higher than
wood on under-side of pane.
Silver-beet.
“M.S.”: It’s my pick of greens
for home-growing. Any but the
most microscopic backyard can
accommodate a row or two
of silver - beet enough to
supply the family for winter
—in southern latitudes it
can be grown the year round.
It will put up with near-drought
conditions, though it responds
like magic to kindness with
water or liquid manure. I’ve
never seen it cut by frost, even
in Hobart, and in my experience
it’s immune to insect pests.
It has several advantages over
cabbage. First, since it is picked
leaf by leaf, the amount needed
can be judged to a nicety—no
half - used vegetables lying
around. Second, all its leaves
are outside leaves, and therefore
high in vitamin value; we eat
the less-valuable part of cabbage
and lettuce. Third, the plant
keeps replacing the leaves as they
are pulled.
Properly prepared for eating—
salted and cooked rapidly in no
more water than clings to the
leayes after washing, thoroughly
drained, and chopped with butter
and pepper—silver-beet is de-
licious.
Peak Downs Sorghum.
“F.R.”: I gather there is “no
such thing as ruined pastures in
(good) sheep country” (B,
failures of the agrostologist with
the success of the geneticist. I
hope that “Milo” knows how
far the latter can go towards
producing the pastureless sheep,
because for years before the
British Food Mission heard of
Peak Downs it was an area of
sheepless pastures.
For Flood Victims.
“He-Ne”: It will take years to
build up the dairy herds in the
N.S.W. Macleay River area, and
the Government agronomist, J.
M. Pitt, urges farmers to sow
their land extensively to com,
which was a thriving crop in
the district before the advent of
dairying. It would be necessary
to break up paddocks as soon
as they become workable and
allow them to sweeten until
about November.
Experience after the 1921
flood showed that com planted
too soon on heavily-silted land
remained yellow and dormant
for long periods.
Pitt said it would be a splen-
did gesture on the part of farmers
both near and far to make corn-
seed available to the Macleay
men; such varieties as Fitzroy,
Learning, Giant White, Silver-
mine and Hybrid being most
needed.
Abortion Factor.
“Rooster”: The incidence of
abortion through trichomoniasis
(causal organism Trichomonas
foetus) is rising. Actually it’s a
specific protozoon, swift-moving,
which has its habitat in the bull’s
genital organs. For this reason
a periodical check-up on the
bull is important. Any sign of
inflammation or discharge on or
around the sheath should be
viewed with suspicion, the
animal isolated, and a qualified
vet. called in for diagnosis and
treatment. Negligence in this
respect will probably infect the
entire herd. The danger lies in
the fact that, should these early
symptoms in the bull be over-
looked, they subside within a
few days, and the animal then
becomes a disease-carrier.
Infected cows don’t show any
outward symptoms at the onset.
Some may return for service
after having passed one or two
heat periods, and been thought
safely in calf. The majority
“take” successfully, but abort
six to 16 weeks later, usually
coming on heat again at
the following period. In some
cases a slight inflammation of
the vagina may be apparent, but
usually the first indication is the
freshly - expelled foetus found
lying in the paddock. If the
foetus is not expelled, the womb
becomes swollen and filled with
pus, and an offensive smell is
noticeable. The chronic condi-
tion develops when the cow con-
tinually fails to conceive and
looks for mating every three
weeks, or at irregular intervals.
Research has failed to find any
successful medicinal treatment.
Various drugs, when used as a
direct injection, may check, but


5*
ALL KINDS OF
FISHING TACKLE!
For river, beach and deep
sea fishermen. English and
French NYLON LINES...
hunting knives . . . smokers’
requisites. Write for new
fishing catalogue, now avail-
able.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 George St., Sydney.
Phone M 6261.
INCREASED DEMAND *
INCREASED PRODUCTION
LOWER PRODUCTION COSTS Y'
- PRICE
REDUCTION
in‘PHENOYIS’
Brand of Phenothiazine
‘Phenovis’ has been reduced in price by sixpence
per pound. Lower production costs due to increased
demand has made it possible for the manufacturers
to pass this saving in costs on to graziers and farmers
throughout Australia. Remember
‘Phenovis’—the effective remedy for gastro-
intestinal parasites.
k
ķ
ĸ
For Sale.
CLIMBING TOMATO, bears a whole
year, yields 2001 b.; has 20ft. runners
loaded with large red tomatoes. Disease
and drought resistant. Sensation in
America. 2/6 pkt. posted.
N.S.W. SEED CO., Kurnell, Sydney.
j ESDAILE'S NEW 2£x TELESCOPIC SIGHT
AND SONS
PTY..LTD*
42 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY. 8W8631.
For Rifles of
any calibre
a Fully corrected achro-
matic lens system.
O Optical parts rigidly
mounted, suitable for
use on highest power
rifles.
O Very long eye relief.
O Easily mounted on all
types of rifle.
Specifications: Magnification
2^x —Eye relief to siin.
Eocit pupil 7mm. — Relative
luminosity 49. Field of view
23ift. per 100 yards.
£l6/5/-
VAK RABBIT FUMIGANT
CRYSTALS
No Plant —No Fumes Costs 1 Penny per Hole
Please despatch
3lb. tins at 9/- each Case 12 x 3 lb. 103/-
...... 81b. tins at 33/- each Case 13 x 8 lb. 370/-
(Posf free) ( F.O.R . Sydney)
No C.O.D. Please add exchange.
NAME B. 26/10/ r 49
(Print)
ADDRESS STATE
INDUSTRIES, 23 Addison Road, Manrickville, N.S.W.
lT lak
Low cost Crude Oil operation
for MEDIUM power users!
A
1
Here’s the pre-war famous Lanz “L”
Model bringing once more amazing
economy of crude oil operation in a
30 H.P. Tractor suitable for every
medium power need. With only 8
main moving parts in its simple,
single-cylinder, slow-moving engine,
30 H.P. LANZ cuts wear and main-
tenance to the barest minimum and
can actually save you as much as
£1,500 in 10 years on the running costs
of any other type of tractor. A saving
which more than refunds the capital
invested in your new Lanz Tractor.
There is a K.L. Bulldog or Lanz Crude
30, 40 & 45 H.P. MODELS
Oil Tractor in the range of 30, 40 and
45 h.p. models to ideally suit the
requirements of your farm—large or
small. See your local Bulldog Agent
Simplest, Strongest, Most Economical
Tractors—Ever Built!
K.L&f|ILANZ
BULLDOG
OmdeOU TRACTORS
State Distributors:
N.S.W., Danger, Gedye & Mal.och Ltd.. .0-14 Young St.. Sydney. VICTORIA, K.L. Tractor SaUs SM
Spencer St.. Melb. SOUTH AUSTRALIA, Elder, Smith & Co. Ltd., 27-31 Currie St., Adelaide. WESTERN
AUSTRALIA, Kelly & Lewis (W.A.) Pty. Ltd.. 349 William St., Perth. TASMANIA, K.L. Distributors Pty. Ltd.,
233 Elizabeth St.. Hobart. QUEENSLAND, K.L. Tractor SalesPty. Ltd., 121 Brunswick St., Valley, Brisbane.
not cure, the disease. Any in-
fected bulls should be destroyed.
An accurate service and breeding
record will assist in investigating
any outbreak. This spreading
disease is yet another reason why
owners should either rear their
own bulls, or buy them from a
reliable stud. Heifers also should
be bought as “in” heifers, and
should only be mated with a bull
which has not served suspect
cows. The best possible way to
control the disease is by keeping
an alert eye on your bulls, and
if the symptoms still show, by
severe culling and replacement.
“The Little Foxes.”
“Lyrist”: Although Queens-
land pays a bonus of ss. a scalp
for foxes, many landholders
insist that they more than com-
pensate for an occasional lamb
by the way they keep rabbits in
check.
Years ago the old District Im-
provement Boards in s.-w.
Queensland shires were crippled
financially by collectors who, re-
ceiving and paying out on scalps
handed in to them, failed to
destroy them and collected again
from the board, which had to
fork out a double bonus.
At that time there was no
standardisation of bonuses, so
scalps would be taken to the
district paying the highest fee.
Then the Lands Department
stepped in and vested all
authority in councils, under the
title of “Minister’s Delegate
under the Stock Routes Improve-
ment and Animal and Vegetable
Pests Destruction Act.” Re-
cently the whole thing has been
reorganised under “The Stock
Routes and Rural Land Protec-
tion Act” and a Co-ordinating
Board set up, making it compul-
sory all over the State to pay a
uniform bonus.
From a recent circular it
appears that the board is once
more being got at. “Irregulari-
ties leave room for doubt as
to the authenticity of particu-
lars ; the destruction in the space
of a few weeks of unusually
large numbers of dingoes on
areas of less than 200 acres, on
town reserves, narrow roads, in
closely-settled areas and at or in
close proximity to small town-
ships” gives rise to sus-
picion. Any enterprising person
cleaning up the town mongs and
netting 15s. a head for them is
in the clear, for, as the Act now
stands, a definition of dingo is
“A dingo or half-bred dingo, or
any undomesticated dog gener-
ally known as a wild dog in-
habiting the bush and apparently
having no owner and being
under no control.’*
The Kero. Refrigerator.
“T ”; xh e manufacturers do
not usually supply any informa-
tion on how to correct a
machine which obstinately re-
fuses to freeze, or which works
inefficiently. The following is
recommended: If your machine
won’t freeze, even though the
lamp has been lit some time,
there would appear to be a gas-
lock of a partial blockage, caused
probably by a piece of floating
scale.
With the lamp up to its maxi-
mum, tip the refrigerator to the
right to a 30deg.-45deg. angle,
hold it for about 10-15 seconds ;
stand upright, tip to the left,
hold, then back upright again.
Do this half a dozen times, but
make sure your last tip is to the
same side as the lamp, as this will
recharge the vital innards with
a fresh chemical solution.
Within three hours it should
show signs of freezing.
If it doesn’t, extinguish the
flame and allow the machine to
cool down for 24 hours. Then
lay it on its back, and with
packing raise the base higher
than the top. Leave it for an
hour, then stand it up and leave
it for half an hour. Repeat.
Light it up and it should go like
a house on fire. If your refrig-
erator won’t work efficiently,
except on a maximum flame, try
the second procedure outlined.
Hints for the Farm.
“Farback”: Cover unsightly
sheds and fences with edible
climbers, protected from stock.
Climbing beans make a good
covering and will provide many
meals. Passionfruit makes a
most attractive disguise for a
shed. If there is no suitable
ground at the spot make a good
mixture in a kero.-tin and sink
it a little in the earth. Fill the
tin to about three-quarters; this
allows a fair amount of water to
be poured in at a time without
waste.
“Beroo”: The poison in tung-
nuts renders the residue left after
the oil is extracted unsuitable for
livestock food. It occurs also in
the green leaves. Feeding tests
in U.S.A. have shown that as
little as Hlb. of leaves will kill
a half-grown bullock. There are
many tung-trees in Australia,
singly or in small plantations,
and farmers would be well ad-
vised to make sure they are
securely fenced off.
“Rooster”: Woolly aphis of
apple-trees appears about this
time of the year as small
clusters of black insects covered
with white sticky threads.
Usually it is controlled by a
parasitic wasp, but when this
wasp is reduced in numbers, in-
festation is severe. Prompt
spraying with two pints of red
oil diluted in four gallons of
water is the shot.
“Bridle Track”; Plough discs
make efficient butts for fence
stays; bolted to a short plank
and half-buried in the ground
they are excellent bootscrapers ;
bolted to the top of a vertical
axle set in the ground they make
a gong that is good for a half-
mile.
“Myrr”; A deficiency in the
poultry ration depresses egg-
production, lowers the vitamin
A content of the eggs themselves
and stunts the growth of young
stock. The vitamin is best sup-
plied in fresh green feed, but if
this isn’t procurable give the
birds a supplement of fish-oil in
the mash daily—one part of oil
to 100 parts mash. Keep the lid
on, as vitamin A potency of the
oil is soon lost on exposure.
“W. Court”: Fruit-sucking
moths and similar citrus pests
may be thinned out considerably
if a strong flare is taken through
the orchard after nightfall and
the trees gently shaken. The
moths fly to the flame, and are
destroyed. Or large tins half-
full of thick, sticky molasses
suspended in the trees serve as
effective traps, provided drowned
insects are removed from them
daily.
“Gravelsnatcher”: Last year
in England a valuable pedigreed
bull was injured in an accident
while being taken to serve a
Guernsey cow. On the advice
of veterinary surgeons it was
destroyed; but officers from the
Artificial Insemination Centre
operated as soon as life was
extinct, and procured some
semen with which the cow was
inseminated. The operation was
successful. The cow produced
twin bull calves.


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1878
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIKECTOKS;
C. C. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN C. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
I HUNTER 1
j CISARETTESJ
t
T
m
s
A
c cfo
Hunter
mmue a
m
... ana again sm
a favoured blend
2'9 for 20
EVERYWHERE
DISTRIBUTORS MAURICE NEWSJEAO PTY. LTD. (a CASTUREAGH STREET. SYDNEY
NEMOR |S Uh easE
Pass Examinations.
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Send stamp for booklet.
Rev. W. Rowlands,
12 Younger Grove,
Caulfield, 5.8.8, Victoria.
IXL
This World Famous Brand !»
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:—
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING—INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
A MOUSE FOR LUNCH
By WILL LAWSON
IF there wasn’t very much of
Dizzy it was all expert
steeplejack. Nobody ever
doubted his skill and courage
in working on dizzy heights.
Dizziness was the last sensation
he ever experienced ; and he had
worked on every kind of lofty
structure from bridge spans
above roaring torrents to high
smokestacks. Church spires were
easy to him. Dizzy had been a
seaman in the windjammer days
—a top-man at that, having to
shin up to the highest spars,
which might be the royals or
skysails, or even the mooneails,
the effort made on the tall
ships to catch an extra breath
Dizzy and a tall man named
Long’un were mates, working on
the smokestack of a city in-
cinecator; probably it was a
hundred feet high, maybe more.
Their job was to chip a recess
in the brick round the stack,
about three feet from its summit,
to enable them to fit an iron
strap about it. Old age was
weakening the stack.
Dizzy liked working on
smokestacks. Their gentle sway-
ing movement in the wind
soothed him ; maybe it reminded
him of swaying topmasts. There
was no danger in this swinging
of the lofty stacks, he would
explain ; the movements between
any two layers of bricks was so
small.
A T the outset of a job like
this one of them must climb
the iron rungs set inside the
stack. Always Dizzy did this.
He was small and light and
tough. He carried a snatch-
block and a light line.
When he reached the top and
had got his breath he hooked the
block to a bar set in the bricks,
rove the light line through it and
started to haul, to bring up a
heavy line. As soon as the end
of the light line reached the
ground, Long’un took a hand.
It didn’t take long for Long’un
and the gear to come up,
Long’un seated in a bosun’s
chair,
Astride the rim of the stack,
they arranged the plank on which
they would work, and lowered
it with gear like boat-falls, the
blocks being hung to a steel rim
around the stack inside it. The
plank was placed just low
enough to be reached by drop-
ping down to it, with hands on
the rim, and so that they could
spring up when they wanted to.
Then, maybe a hundred feet
above the city, they started
work. It was windy and they
jambed their caps on tight, but
wind didn’t worry Dizzy, unless
it blew a gale.
From time to time they had
to go on top and shift the plank
round the stack. When they got
in the lee of it the job was much
easier. At lunchtime they got
up and had their meal from the
tucker-bag which had come up
with Long’un in the chair.
DIZZY had his bag open and
was munching a sandwich
when he heard Long’un swear,
and, looking up, saw a mouse
jump out of the bag. Dizzy
went pale. He swayed.
“Hey, what’s wrong with
you?” Long’un shouted. “Buck
up!” He knew that emotions on
a smokestack were dangerous.
Dizzy’s eyes were on the
mouse, which ran a short way
round the rim, then shot out into
space.
Long’un leaned far out to
watch the mouse.
“Poor little cuss,” he said.
“But maybe mice land light like
cats.”
Dizzy looked down, too. He
was still white and looking queer.
Long’un said again, almost
angrily, “What’s up with you?
Mice ain’t unlucky.”
“Not unlucky? No, maybe
not. All the same I’m scared of
’em,” Dizzy said. His eyes
opened wide as he added, “I
never seen one up here before.
Something’s goin’ to happen,
mark my words. We got to take
it easy, Long’un. Mice always
bring me bad luck.”
“Rats,” Long’un began, then
laughed. “I mean mice won’t
hurt y’. Come on, buck up.
We got to finish this job today,
and tomorrow we’ll fix the strap
on. It’s a great picture down
there,” he went on to help Dizzy
recover his poise. “I wonder is
anyone interested in us two dots
in the sky—flies on a chimney-
pot, like? Y’ know. Dizzy, we
ought to have parachutes, then
we could just float down gentle-
like, while the mob stared,
instead of being half-smothered
in the stack.”
“She ain’t lit up today.”
Dizzy had recovered his calm
now, but still looked a bit white
round the gills.
“No, she ain’t lit up, but
there’s always some fire down
there and y’ get it in the stack,
kind o’ chokes a feller. Now,
with a parachute’
He didn’t finish. Dizzy, sud-
deply restored to normal, was
shifting the plank again, and
Long’un began to help him ; but
he still talked.
“That’d make a grand story,”
he said. “Tell the reporters that
one. The steeplejack what was
skeered of a mouse. Poor little
beggar. I wonder where he
landed.”
“Shut up,” Dizzy said crisply.
Long’un shut up.
'T' HE wind came up stronger
* in the afternoon, hampering
their work. They worked hard
to finish by five o’clock. But.
Long’un could not stop talking
however hard he worked.
“I was watching a girl down
there crossin’ the street. Funny
how flat-footed she walks.
Seems like a mealy-worm from
this height.”
“Mealy-worms are long. Is
she on her hands and knees?”
Dizzy asked.
“No. Maybe I should have
said like a ladybird,” Long’un
corrected himself. “Ain’t it
clear today? I’ll swear I could
see a zack on the pavement from
here. Look, there is one by that
fat old bloke.”
Dizzy looked down and
agreed there was a coin there.
From great heights looking
down everything is vividly clear.
“Might be a deener, though,”
he added. “Funny nobody’s
pickin’ it up.”
“Ain’t it? Suppose I drop a
bit of brick on it just to make
’em look?” Long’un said.
“No fear,” Dizzy warned him.
Just then a man stooped and
picked up the coin. “There you
go. Too late, as usual, Long’un.”
“That’s why I want a para-
chute,” Long’un said. “I
could’ve swooped down right
under their noses and got that
deener.”
The afternoon sped away.
Soon Long’un, who was much
younger than Dizzy, began to
get impatient with the wind.
“Darn it,” he said. “This
wind’s a cow. I wanted to see
the girl at five-fifteen. Don’t
look like we’ll be finished by
five.”
“Yes, you will,” Dizzy said,
“if you shut up and work.”
They could see the time on
the railway-station tower a
quarter of a mile away. The
hands began to shape the sign
of five. First the hour-hand got
as close as it could to the five,
while the minute-hand pushed
up at the twelve,
“nrHERE she goes! Knock
1 off,” Long’un said, letting
the arm which held the chipper
fall to his side. He stood up,
leaning on the horizontal rail
which was fast to the end sup-
ports. “We’ll leave the gear
here, eh?”
“Yes, buzz off,” Dizzy said.
“Don’t keep the girl waiting.
I’ll get down later.”
“Sure you’ll be all right?” As
he spoke Long’un grasped the
top of the lofty smokestack,
sprang lightly, scarcely shaking
the plank, and fell on the bricks
on his chest, then wriggled over
and sat there.
“Come on,” he urged Dizzy.
“I’d feel happier if you came
now. You might crash working
alone.”
“I’m used to working alone,”
Dizzy said. “So long. Send the
chair up after you get down,”
“Okay. So long.”
Long’un took hold of the rope
in the snatch-block and held it
round his wrist till he got in the
bosun’s chair. Then, with a last
“So long,” he lowered away.
DIZZY finished the job, and,
feeling satisfied, stood up to
spring on the rim of the stack as
Long’un had done. He almost
sprang, then realised that it was
too high. If he failed the plank
might have swung away and he
would fall.
Several times he poised him-
self to spring. Each time he felt
afraid he might miss and crash
to the ground. A cold sweat
chilled him. How could he get
off the plank? It took two men,
working one end at a time, to lift
it and their own weight with the
block and tackle. He looked
down at the teeming crowds
hurrying homeward.
Then —so suddenly he almost
fell off the plank with fright—
Long’un’s grinning face appeared
on the rim.
“What’s up with you. Dizzy?”
he asked, “I seen you from
below, leastways the girl did ;
you seemed to be in trouble.
Can’t you make it?”
Dizzy shook his head.
“I’m not game,” he said.
“The plank’s too low.”
“Come on,” Long’un urged.
“Make a spring an’ I’ll lug you
over.”
Dizzy made the effort again,
hung a moment with Long’un’s
strong hands gripping his
shoulders, then struggled on to
the rim. They went down in the
bosun’s chair together.
“That mouse,” Dizzy said as
their dangling feet touched
ground. “I told you it’d bring
me bad luck.”


mv mom
SANDERS
(^fj^FILES
Correspondence
sioteroent*. etc., filed in the
"Sanders'' can be securely
hound and converted Into a
perfect book of reference at
the end of each n.ontb —or
any other period
Jackson & O’Sullivan Fty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Diitribunng Agenu-~
BYDNET ,
MELBOURNE *
ADELAIDE J
r/Biu i
W C. Penfold * Co. Ply. Ltd.
. Norman Bros. Ply. Lid.
• Vardon & Sons Lid.
• Docket Book Co. (Aust.J
ALL-BRITISH /\ a .m,
{otuiKuj gtwflrt
No. 58
as illustrated.
PRICE
40/-
The easy writing
and perfect ink-flow
are appreciated by
every type of
writer
The quality
Pen at a
reasonable
No. 236.30/5 No. 28.30/-
No. 388.27/6 No. 475/17/6
No. 540.18/6 No. 759.17/6
FULLY GUARANTEED
price •
a e Popul“ Pen
with* 6
BELT
ABRASIVE
I
FINISHING
* £
sccpe/Ufo
p/i&MS
S\
S&SgS
&
mmimwm
■
.
-
mm
iil® '
S&hfM '•* I
\U//'
\
Abrasive belt grinding and polishing gives a much faster and
more uniform cut, with a high finish, due to the following
features:
it A cushioned grind is obtained by the resilience of the
contact wheel which also allows a greater contact area.
it Cooler cutting is assured as the belt provides an abrasive
area several times the limited area available on a set up wheel.
FREE! Illustrated is the McPherson Floor Type Backstand
Idler fully described in this 8-page leaflet. Write for a copy
of leaflet "AA" to:
c
LIMITED
546-566 Collins Street, MELBOURNE 116-130 Waymouth Street, ADELAIDE
260 Kent Street and 51 Bathurst Street, SYDNEY 532 Murray Street, PERTH
MEI 6-27
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Words of poem “A Voice From
the Bush” by Mowbray Morris.
4708.
To buy Vol. 2 only of Australian
Encyclopedia. —4709.
Accommodation, city office, Syd-
ney, central position, in return tor
part-time services, minding telephone.
-4710,
Information Sought.
Was Henry Lawson ever outside
Australia ?
Towards the end of 1893 Lawson
landed in Wellington (N.Z.) with £1
in his pocket, worked in a sawmill
for a short period, and tried his hand
at a variety of tasks. Returning to
Sydney, he went to New Zealand
again later in the ’nineties, and was
for a time in charge of a Maori
school. On April 20, 1900, he sailed
from Sydney for England with his
wife and family. While in London
he had three books published there.
His wife had a serious illness while
abroad, both pined for the sunshine
of Australia and were glad to return
before the end of 1902.
* * * *
Meaning of following naval slang
terms: (1) "Acting Dicky’' (2) “Fidd-
ler’s Green’’ and (3) “Ship’s Hus-
band” ?
(1) One appointed temporarily to
a ship; a naval officer “lent” to a
ship or shore establishment for
special duty or to relieve someone
who is “sick on shore.” He is “lent”
because he is still borne for payment
in the ship in which he holds a
permanent appointment and to which
he will return whofci his period of
duty is over. (2) The final rest of
old sailors; a sailor’s paradise. There,
fiddlers play all day and most of the
night. Being Elysium, Fiddler’s
Green has lasses, suitably respon-
sive, and glasses suitably responsive.
(3) A captain of a ship who is so
proud of his command that he is
for ever spending his salary on her.
* * * *
Some details concerning the Aus-
tralian artist Hugh Ramsay ?
Born at Glasgow in 1877, he was
brought to Melbourne the following
year. He studied at the National
Gallery School, Melbourne, went to
Paris in 1900, and was remarkably
successful at the New Salon in 1902.
The state of his health forced him to
return to Melbourne. During the
four years before his death in 1906
he painted about 20 full-length
portraits, which show extraordinary
skill. A memorial exhibition of his
work was held in 1918 at the Fine
Art Society’s Gallery, Melbourne. He
is represented in the Melbourne,
Sydney and Adelaide galleries. There
is a self-portrait of the artist in the
Melbourne Gallery. For further de-
tails see The Art of Hugh Ramsay
by E. A. Vidler.
* * * *
(1) Does a saturated solution of
D.D.T. powder in kerosene represent
a 5 p.c. solution? (2) What quantity
of kerosene would be required per
ounce avoirdupois of D.D.T. to make
a 5 p.c. solution? (3) Method of
mixing ?
(1) Yes, for all practical purposes.
(2) Approximately 25 fluid ounces.
(3) D.D.T. dissolves very slowly, but
solution may be speeded up by dis-
solving the D.D.T. in warm kerosene,
with ample stirring, taking care to
crush all lumps before adding. Some
D.D.T. may recrystallise from the
kerosene solution in cold weather,
and to avoid this it is common prac-
tice to use kerosene to which has
been added a small quantity (any-
thing up to 10 p.c.) of mineral turps.
Commercial-grade D.D.T. is harder
to dissolve and more likely to re-
crystallise than pure-grade D.D.T.
* * * *
List of the most famous acting
families in the English and American
theatre ?
Among famous acting families are
the Barrymores, Booths, Boucicaults,
Cohans, Coopers, Davenports, Drews,
Foys, Irvings, Kembles, Rooneys,
Trees and Wallacks. For a more
complete list see Who’s Who in the
Theatre, edited by John Parker.
* * * *
What does “outright sale of copy-
right” of a book by an author to a
publisher mean? Is it to be recom-
mended ?
In such a transaction the publisher
pays the author a sum of money for
all rights in the book. This is rarely
done by first-class publishers, except
where children’s books are concerned.
On the whole, authors are advised
against such an agreement, since if
the book proves a great success the
author has no claim on the publisher
to partake in any of the profits which
may be made from sales or from the
serial, film, dramatic or other rights.
Authors are sometimes tempted to
make this form of agreement to
se'cure an immediate cash payment,
but usually this can now be obtained
by way of advance of royalty. Out-
right selling of copyright demands
caution and competent advice.
* * * *
Purpose of the Torres Strait
Islanders Act passed by the Q’land
Parliament in 1939 ?
It aims at conferring a measure of
local Self-government upon the natives
of the islands. The local government
of each reserve is vested in a council
consisting of not more than five
Islanders. These councillors, includ-
ing the chairman, are elected by
ballot triennially, each Islander over
the age of eighteen years being en-
titled to vote. An island fund has
been established into which is paid
the receipts from an island tax and
charges for services. The council
makes by-laws for controlling the
health, food supply and housing of
the natives. An island court deals
with offences against by-laws. Other
provisions of the Act are similar to
the Aboriginals Preservation and Pro-
tection Act, 1939.
He * * *
What is the difference between the
words “fragile” and “frail” ?
Frail is wider both in application
and in sense. Whatever is fragile is
also frail, but a woman may be frail
(i.e., weaker than others in moral
strength) who cannot be called fragile
(i.e., weaker in physical strength).
Where, as in most cases, either worn
is applicable, there is a certain differ-
ence of sense between (fragile) liable
to snap or break or be broken and
so perish, and (frail) not to be
reckoned on to resist breakage or
pressure or to last long; that is to
say, the root idea of break is more
consciously present in fragile owing
to its unobscured connection with
fragment and fracture.
Brief Answers.
W.G.N.: Protection against sparrows
can be obtained by stretching
a number of black cotton threads a
few inches above the rows of plants.
This can readily be done by placing
sticks at the ends of the rows. The
threads are apparently invisible to
the birds, and after one or two
frightening contacts even succulent
seedlings are avoided... .R.A.C.: The
transaction would be governed by
Section 26(a) of the Income Tax
Assessment Act, 1936-’4B, which
reads: “The assessable income of a
taxpayer shall include profit arising
from the sale by the taxpayer of any
property acquired by him for the
purpose of profit-making by sale or
from the carrying on or carrying out
of any profit-making undertaking or
scheme.” If the transaction falls
within the section then profit only on
the sale, less any allowable deduc-
tions, would be taxable... .E. 8.:
Result of the essay competition spon-
sored by Arthur J. Grenfeld, mem-
ber of the United Nations Secretariat,
was: Ist, D. L. S. Martin, 123 Alma-
road, North Perth (W.A.); 2nd, Mrs.
Mary A. Allgood, 1 Wattle-street,
Killara (N.S.W.); and 3rd, Herbert
J. Byrne, 18 Lanor-avenue, Good-
wood Park (5.A.)... .W.L.H.: “Aus-
tralian Stamp Monthly,” obtainable
from Gordon and Gotch, Melbourne.
M.J.C.: (1) Some schools allow
two and a “go,” equals three for 15;
we’re against it. Thirty-one never
takes more than two. (2) You’re
wrong. The last card always gets
one for the “go,” unless it makes
31, irrespective of who plays it.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor.
M.J.: Your poems read like tele-
grams S.C.A.: Several million
gallons of ink have been lavished on
that plot since it was first conceived
about five hundred years ag0....
H. : Too verbose. Why use long
words where short ones will serve
the same purpose? K.D.: The sub-
ject has been Buried too long to dig
up again S.M.W.; Miles too long
as it stands at present... .T.R.:
Weary yearnings to die in some
sylvan dell leave us unmoved
I. : Your verse is, on the whole,
rather worse than your prose....
Claude: Your covering memo says:
“I enclose stamps for return of MS.
if rejected.” No surname, no address,
no stamps; so your opus has been
put aside till we hear from you
V.C.: Let one stanza live;
Obese with egotism, scorning wowsers,
Alack a tiny ant, most truculent knave,
Did nip my leg ’neath cover of my
trousers;
I cursed and yelled; then pondered and
was grave.
H.R.D.; If your heroine were to
shake herself up a bit, and not go
moping about and lamenting that she
is misunderstood, and the rest of it,
she’d find life more cheerful
D.J.A.; After serious consideration,
the staff unanimously decided that
this first attempt should be your last.
T.F.T.: One sentence is joyfully
rescued from the basket: “That
tongue, in its subtle, sinuous way,
wound its gilded threads round and
round the heart of innocence”
E.M.P.; Stale-beer story poured down
the drain K.A.: Cheap melodrama
and dreary humor cremated as desired.
L.N.; Verses “To the Religious
Editor” handed to that gentleman.
They are hardly good enough for
print W.E.S.: Each stanza is as
bad as it knows how, but perhaps
the last is the worst...X.C.: You
can “compose one like that every
week”? Think of the thousands
who could “compose” dozens better
every day, and who wisely refrain.
Bellerive: Don’t toss in the
towel:
G.P.: Well, if poets will weep
over a fire, it’s bound to go 0ut....
F. 8.: Don’t know "Where is that
land of dreams forgotten long ago?”
Also, don’t care... .L.S.D.: What a
terrible jog-trot your Pegasus breaks
into, to be sure W.T.H.: Gone
to their proper place A.R.V.:
Died of senile decay S.C.: If we
were to print things like yours in
“your valuable journal” there would
be soon no valuable journal at all.
M.B.: Most times we say “Send
the verses to the girl yourself,” But
no girl could quite deserve to get
that lot R.G.: You jest with the
grace of an elephant H.S.: Dreary
story of a dismal lady who nightly
prays that her husband may break
his neck J.D.H.: Hardly worth
singing about... .H.P.McK.: Too
much wood and not enough fire
about your little conflagration
P.M.S.: You have worried that poor
little idea to death A.E.K.; Poem
returned. It may be an epic; but
there isn’t a man in the office who
owns more than one pair of eyes, and
there isn’t one who is going to risk
that pair trying to decipher the screed.
LINES MAILED TO THE BULLETIN BEFORE
CEASING CORRESPONDENCE FOREVER.
Moisten the roots or the flowers will die
’Neath the blaze of the gleaming sun.
Christmas is near, glad season of cheer.
My reign as a poet is done.
What’s the use of genius to man
If he lose hia faith in hope.
Many a soul where wild billows roll
Aren’t saved from a wreck by a rope.
Changes occur, but I can’t care;
Battle to the end isn’t my plan.
But despite the strain, I’d climb again
If bom again where I began.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4»d. per line; all others per line.
Youth and Age,
For more than one and a half centuries
we have been hearing and reading about
Australia being “a young country full
of promise,” of Australians being a
“young people with vast potentialities,”
with the emphasis always on youngness,
newness, freshness, on vitality and the
urgencies of forceful growth. How much
of that is really true ; how much, if false,
is dangerously coloring our national
thinking and planning?
In geological time, the Australian con-
tinent is very old. The undetermined
factor is whether mere age is a deterrent
to the growth of the grasses upon which
food production primarily depends. There
is evidence to support the contention of
the men on the land that, given sufficient
water, the age-old soil can still produce
richly.
But people are as essential to a land as
its soil and its potential productivity, and
we have too lightly accepted the cliche
that Australians are a young race. It is
truer to say that Australians are a branch
of a very old people, in the sense of age
as applied to peoples. Probably 19 Aus-
tralian families in 20 find their ancestry
reaching, after three or four generations,
or J©i}s, back into the old folk of Sussex
c>* Surrey, of Yorkshire or Cornwall, of
Wales or the Highlands or the fields of
Ireland. Thus in a very real sense they
are out-stems of an old race.
There is nothing wrong in being old,
especially when the oldness is part of a
tradition so rich, and in many ways so
virile, as that into which the Australian
story reaches back. But oldness is not
youth; it is too facile a trick of words to
call the children of an old race young
just because they have been planted in
another land and especially when this
land itself is not hew either. As part of
an old race Australians are likely to be
subject to the stresses as well' as the
splendors which are part of it.
If we could accept that thesis, we might
face with a sterner and clearer resolu-
tion the hazards which an old and time-
worn continent imposes upon us. These
hazards are very real and are part of the
Australian scene —the hazards of weari-
ness, of temporising, of waiting for to-
morrow in a land where the weight of the
ages tells against quick fecundity while the
children of the land are instinct with
memories of an older and riper fertility in
more generous places.
In world history new races in the real
meaning of the term stem out of the
mixture and fermentation of old races.
In this sense the Americans are a new
race; from many old European and in-
digenous strains an American type has
evolved with a characteristic approach to
life —an enormous vitality, an adven-
turousness, a forward-thrusting which
can justly be termed young. The Aus-
tralian purity of lineage has told against
the reputed youthfulness of the Australian
people, in sharp contrast to the American
story..
I am not preaching despair or trying to
make out a case against Australians or
our root-stock. The point is simply to
sound a warning note against the “new
young race” cliches, and all the prob-
ably wrong inferences that go hand-in-
hand with them. If we were to see Aus-
tralia today as an old, old continent, re-
quiring urgent and compulsive redevelop-
ment, and if we could see ourselves as
the brothers of a fine old civilisation, with
the ripeness of long centuries in our bones
and some of the hesitations that go with
it, we might approach along somewhat
less happy-go-lucky lines the tasks which
lie ahead— Dee (Q.).
White Australia
“R.H.W.” disagrees with Calwell’s
methods (B. 5/10/’49), but, like other
critics, fails to present a workable alterna-
tive. By implication he would allow those
Asiatics who entered by devious illegal
methods in war-time to remain here with-
out the customary health, sanity or
character tests, presumably on the score
that their numbers are small and thus
could not affect our living standard. Pre-
sumably also he would turn a blind eye
to subsequent infiltration provided. the
entrants came in small batches. The
truth is that once our doors are thus
breached they’ll soon swing wide under
the pressure of Asia’s millions. The
“large hordes of coolies” which “R.H.W.”
fears would become an unpleasant
reality; many of them would form
unions with Australian women, and the
half-caste problem would speedily attain
the formidable dimensions it has reached
in the U.S. A.
The White Australia policy was
born in the goldfield riots of last
century’, when the menace of un-
controlled immigration caused Parkes
to bring in his Chinese Exclusion Bill.
Would “R.H.W.” have attacked Parkes,
or later Barton, Deakin and company
when they provided a further safeguard
in the Immigration Act? Would he pre-
sume to question the action of the U.S.A.,
which, in 1924, to preserve a Northern
European majority, severely limited entry
from Southern European countries?
The Malayan seamen “R.H.W.” men-
tions were not “expelled,” nor were they
“deported”—they were merely returned
to their native soil, no contract other
than the provision of temporary refuge
having ever existed between them and the
Australian Government. Had not the
dailies raised a howl their return would
have excited no comment in Asia, where
our right to choose our immigrants has
been accepted for many years. As for
the Philippines, if they want our
“After all, DISTINCTIVE appearance does count for a lot!”
products, 20 such exclusions won’t dam
the natural flow of commerce.
What surprises me most in this sorry
business is the fact that the Communist
line about brotherhood with “our Inder-
nesian Comrades” was so readily taken
up by editors and individuals who would
be horrified if they came, through that
support, to be regarded as fellow-
travellers. — Barwon (N.S.W.).
“Betterment” Banditry
The N. S. Wales County of Cumberland
town-planning scheme has caused much
worry among property-owners, opinions
on the scheme varying considerably.
Many owners of home-building blocks
find themselves saddled with land they
are now unable to use or to sell. On the
other hand, the council itself is of the
opinion that it has done such a good job
that other land will be enhanced in value
as a result of the scheme.
Owners of this other land, however,
will not benefit, for under the “better-
ment” clauses in the Local Government
(Town and Country Planning) Act the
Contributors of political comment
during the forthcoming election
campaign should indicate that they
are prepared to have their names
and addresses published to comply
with the of the Com-
monwealth Electoral Act.
local councils may require the Valuer-
General to assess the value of such
“betterment” (the extent of the increase in
value of the subject property claimed to
be due to the operation of the scheme)
and may then claim by way of a charge
80 per cent, of the “betterment.” The
Act sets out that “any such charge shall
be imposed each year for a term of years
fixed by the prescribed scheme, or, where
no term is* so fixed, for a term of years
fixed by the council when first imposing
the charge.”
The matter is somewhat obscure in that,
from the wording of the Act, the “better-
ment” to be recovered is an enhancement
of the capital value of the land and the
proportion which is to be recovered
annually is not stipulated or limited ex-
cept to the extent of being 80 per cent, of
the total enhancement. It could be that
the council concerned might levy a charge
equalling the full amount recoverable in
one year. However that may be, the un-
fortunate landowner will be rated on the
enhanced value of his property, not on
the pre-scheme value, so that he will
be caught both ways—paying rates on the
higher value, the bulk of which he will
have to surrender to the council anyway.
The authors of the scheme excuse this
outbreak of banditry by quoting English
town-planning principles that where
property increases in value by virtue of
some local town-planning scheme the
local authority in question should be en-
titled to a proportion of the increase.
That may be all right in its way, and
on first appearance seems to be fair.
When the matter is considered further,
however, and particularly in the light of
the provision that enhancement shall be
based upon the value of the land as at
March 8, 1948 (that will be, in fact,
equivalent to a 1942 valuation), it will be
seen that there will probably be much
hardship and dissatisfaction among
property-owners. ‘ *
In many cases where improvement in
values occurs, land will have been sold
and the original o\vner will have secured
the benefit of the increase value, but the
new owner will be taxed 80 per cent, of
that increase which he has paid. It
may be—and in all probability will be—
the case that property-owners will
desire only to live in peace in their
houses or continue with their small busi-
nesses, in which event any increase in
the value of their properties can only be
reflected in the higher rates they will pay.
To tax them 80 per cent, of any such in-
crease will be a manifest imposition—an
act of plain plunder.
And who can really say that any in-
crease in value will be the result of the
implementation of a scheme and not the
natural improvement which has already
occurred in relation to 1942 values? In
every district where the Valuer-General
is revaluing on a current basis his values
have increased.
Local property-owners pay dearly
•enough for any improvements that take
place in their districts by way of
increased values, which mean higher
rateable values, increased rates to meet
local works and direct charges to meet
the cost of works carried out on their
own frontages. It is probable that those
owners would be just as satisfied to have
their districts developed by local effort
at appropriate times rather than be the
subject of grandiose schemes perpetrated
to keep “experts” employed in a central
planning and playing room.— Jindivick
(N.S.W.).
Railways
The luxury Riverina Express isn’t
appreciated by a lot of Riverina residents
—not while farmers are kept cripplingly
short of vital commodities such as fer-
tiliser, etc., through lack of rail trucks.
The district of the Riverina is one of
the food producers of the continent, but
it’s starved and retarded by the lack of
transport. There just aren’t enough
trucks to take goods to and fro. Had
the money lavished on the new luxury
train been spent on rolling-stock the
country really would have benefited.
The same complaint—shortage of
trucks to shuttle goods to and fro —goes
up when decentralisation is discussed.
What is the use of Cabinet Ministers
burbling about decentralisation when
rolling-stock isn’t available to shift
goods that might be manufactured
in country areas? Manufacturers
aren’t going to sink cold, hard cash in
country enterprises when the Govern-
ment’s own muddle over rail transport
might ruin them from the start.
Decentralisation is desirable and inevit-
able, but before it can work, Ministers
will have to see that something more than
lip-service is given to the idea. Decentral-
ised industry will demand a highly-
organised transport system to bring raw
materials to its doors and carry the
finished product away. Private enter-
prise could no doubt do the job with
road transport, but the bureaucrats
couldn’t allow that, or the railways would
get into a worse mess than they’re in
now.— Una Auld (N.S.W.).
Machinery
Machinery cannot completely replace
labor and craftsmanship (B. 7/9/’49), but
it has reduced, and, properly used, can
continue to reduce, man’s toil without
harmful results.
A cry sometimes goes up against new
inventions, which, it is claimed, put men
out of work. A lesson can be learned
from woman in the home. Vacuum-
cleaners, pressure-cookers and other
modern appliances enable housewives to
complete their chores and have more
leisure time.
Industry can apply the same principle.
If a machine is invented to reduce the
amount of labor, working hours should
be correspondingly reduced. The saving
of labor Should be spread over all fields,
otherwise one man would work, say, a
40-hour week, as against another man’s
30 hours. A balance of manpower in
both craftsmanship and machine-minding,
rather than overpopulating the earth to
create new markets, is the answer.
An outstanding example of the bene-
fits of invention lies in the contrast be-
tween the long hours of arduous and
dangerous work performed by seamen in
the era of sail and the comparatively easy
job of the seaman in' today’s floating
machine-shops.
Machinery, properly controlled, is for
the benefit of all. The worker’s task,
though admittedly less interesting, is less
exacting, and, strikes permitting, the em-
ployer gains a more regular output.—<
Tackline S. (N.S.W.).
Root of the Matter
It has just been estimated that Brisbane
loses about £lOO,OOO a year in rates
through Government buildings and other
properties being rate-free. Why are
they? Why should I be forced to pay
extra rates because the Government
dodges its turn? Those Government
buildings don’t belong to Brisbane alone
—as the capital, it is the administrative
centre of the State, Those buildings
should be a cost on the whole State.
With odd and rare exceptions these
Government places are in business centres
where land is priced at pounds per foot.
Without exception the floor-space is ex-
travagant and monopolises areas which
could be devoted to infinitely better pur-
poses.—S. U, Burb (Q.).
So Massingham says that the better
farming yields of a century ago were due
to the greater supply of highly-skilled
labor, closer working of the land and
use of organic matter to improve the soil.
All true to some extent; but isn’t there a
simpler explanation of falling yields—
that perhaps an extra 100 years’ use de-
pletes the soil of minerals, organic
matter or coherent physical structure?
No matter how efficient the modern
scientific methods, exhaustion of the
soil from a century of use is the most
sensible explanation of the difference.
To say, as Massingham is quoted in
Where Man Belongs, that the 19th-
century farmer “knew himself a great deal
about soil, minerals, crops,” etc., is
plain rubbish, particularly when the sug-
gestion is that the modern farmer knows
less. The use of a hoe may mean closer
contact with the soil than using disk-
harrows drawn by a tractor, but it
doesn’t mean more knowledge.
Nedrium (Vic.).
I’m a “country” chemist, and after the
June flood, followed by the coal strike, all
our goods were diverted from rail-carriage
to private enterprise—the roal pool. Our
orders left here Tuesday noon, were
attended to in Sydney on Wednesday,
and we received the supplies sometimes on
Thursday night, but never later than
Friday. Now we are back to “normal”
our goods are brought by rail, and we
don’t get them before the following Mon-
day night or Tuesday. —P.D. M.
(N.S.W.).
It seems extraordinary to a visitor from
N.Z. to find so few of the works of the
top-ranking artists of Australia in
the Melbourne and Sydney National
Galleries. Norman Lindsay, Heysen,
Streeton and Gruner are altogether in-
adequately represented. At Melbourne I
ran to earth a solitary etching by Norman
Lindsay, one oil by Hans Heysen and
two small studies by Julian Ashton, very
badly hung. Sydney was a little better,
but not much. Some of the private homes
I visited contained wonderful examples
of Australian art, but the National
Galleries are anything but national, —
Traveller (N.Z.).


countries and learns some strange facts:
twigs from the Sandpaper Fig, for ex-
ample, when used as a radial indicator,
will not work on salt water ; and a clever
cat has been known to Mr. Cook to sit
at a spot where the linoleum had been
worn through so that the animal got the
benefit of radiations from iron deposits
in the earth below; and snakes and
goannas use their tongues as radial de-
tectors —a conclusion based on what is
known or suspected about the behavior
of bats; and generally in marriage it will
be found that a short-wave male is
attracted to a long-wave female, and vice
versa.
The concluding chapters of Mr.
Cook’s book are somewhat disturbing.
Mr. Cook and other practitioners of his
art seem to be convinced that the most
dire consequences result from living over
underground streams rheumatism,
blood - pressure, insomnia, sciatica,
chronic indigestion, nerves—and when
one reflects that one is, at the moment
of writing,, perched right above the old
Tank Stream . . . Fortunately Mr. Cook
tells how to insulate oneself —a simple
method, practised, he says, by a Salva-
tion Army officer on his travels, is to
place two pieces of copper under the bed,
one at the head and one at the foot.
Perhaps it would be sufficient to call a
copper.
Postscript on Boeyertz.
It was some thirteen years after Ronald
McCuaig’s first meeting with Lucifer
(B. 29/ 6/ ’49) that I met C. N. Baeyertz
myself. I was an A.B.C. announcer in
Melbourne when, about 1942, Baeyertz
somehow persuaded the commission that
he could teach their announcers how to
announce.
Few of us had ever heard of him.
Our first impression was of a shock-
haired, moustached ancient, with a crack-
ling voice that occasionally showed signs
of former resonance, and obviously living
in the memory of a departed glory. Our
second—of an unrelenting dogmatism
that we thought silly—came soon after.
However, the first “lesson” started off
mildly enough, with our blowing on
lighted matches. As we were all able to
keep the flame steadily on its side for
some fifteen seconds, this satisfied the
master that we were at least pulmonarily
adapted to the task of announcing. Next
came a reading test. We jogged through
this happily until from the reader came
the name “Cleopatra.”
“Wrong!” snapped C.N.B.
The “student” tried again. "‘Cleo-
pahtra.”
“Wrong!”
A puzzled silence fell, broken even-
tually by the brittle Baeyertz voice de-
claiming “Cleopaytra.”
I don’t know what variety of G.P.S.,
State School or mother’s-knees educa-
tions felt their loyalties strained by this
pronunciamento, but a pandemonium of
disagreement broke out at once. Some
would have “patra,” some “pahtra,”
some tolerated both, but none would
have “paytra.” There was no further
lesson that day—only argument.
Was the Luciferian fire extinguished?
Not a bit of it. At the next class,
moustache and chin more pointed than
ever, the ex-cathedra announcement
came. The master had been to the Public
Library, had consulted all the authorities,
and the only true pronunciation was
“Cleopnytra.” No identification of the
authorities was vouchsafed, nor did we
bother to ask for them. The fire in the
old eyes, the head held high over the
stooped shoulders, made it patent, even to
a radio-announcer’s mind, that here was
an apostle whose faith in his own right-
ness would not be shaken.
Another controversy nearly flared up
over his insistence on Onstralia. But we
appeased Lucifer temporarily by using
his pronunciation in class, our own else-
where.
This was not escaping correction and
admonition finally. An A.B.C. an-
nouncer’s nerves are not soothed by the
awareness that, at any rhoment, a super-
visor, having no other interest in life,
might monitor his programme deliber-
ately looking for “blues.” But no super-
visor is diabolical enough to sit in front
of his loudspeaker for hours at a stretch,
day after day, with pad and pencil, as
Baeyertz did, ear cocked for the slightest
infringement of his personal speech-code.
The result was devastating. Whatever
good the master’s tuition might have
done was nullified by the weakening of
vocal control brought about by nervous
tension.
Every day the notice-boanjl was dotted
with folded pieces of note-pjlper showing
outside one’s name, and inside such
awful indictments as:
2:18 Philadelphya i?orchestra
3:02 Philharmonee Corchestra
5:00 Osstv&lyer
ad infinitum!
fhe unwieldy classes were soon dis-
banded, and instead Hve presented our-
selves for private sessions of an hour, two
or three times a week. These resolved
themselves into reading from scripts pre-
pared by Mr. Baeyertz himself. The art
of dealing with these was in reading be-
tween the lines, the spaces being filled
with a barbed-wire entanglement of dia-
critical marks of his own design. By
following each angle and segment and
straight line, one knew where to go up
and down the scale, where to keep on
one note, and where to emphasise. It
took about a week to become used to
following these signposts, while discard-
ing all interest in the meaning of the
words —necessary to avoid any clashing
with the master’s inflexible interpretation.
Thereafter I found it increasingly boring.
These “lessons” were conducted in our
own time. Inevitably one began to think
of these hours being more pleasantly
spent in the Broadcaster’s Arms in
Bourke-street, or talking to the red-head
who had recently taken over the switch-
board. I bbgan to wag it.
A week later an acerbic little note came
to me. It stated that, if I resumed my
lessons with Mr, Baeyertz, he could —in
time —make me a good announcer. But
if I considered myself already too good
to profit from them, I was indeed hope-
less, and would remain for ever ignorant
of the true art of announcing!
This hurt my youthful ego. T replied
in kind, and equally unkindly, that, if I
had reached the stage where no further
profit from his lessons was likely, this
could be thought the fault of his teaching,
as much as of my own obtuseness.
A Luciferian blast descended—or as-
cended —in another note; Mr. C. N.
Baeyertz considered himself grossly in-
sulted and demanded an apology forth-
with.
As I had no thought of seeing the
gentleman again, this I ignored with
dignity.
But a radio-announcer never knows
whom he will meet. Months later, while
I was on duty in 3LO one night, in
walked Baeyertz to read a talk he had
sold the commission. In the sacred
cause of good broadcasting personal
animosities should give way. So I put
on a bright soap-selling smile and said,
“Good evening, Mr. Baeyertz.”
There was a frigid silence. The only
warm thing about the old man was
his eyes. They were burning with fury.
He sat down at the speaker’s desk and
began to unravel his papers, his chin
tilted as much as that operation would
allow. He was seated sideways to me ;
but, while he made no effort to turn
away, neither did he ever allow him-
self to notice that I was there. Apparently
I did not exist for him.
But apparently only. At first his face
began to flush ; then a trembling came
over his hands, so that his script rattled
against the microphone.
I became alarmed. He was on the air
in a matter of minutes. Unless this fury
subsided, I had visions of a ruined micro-
phone, burnt-out decibel-meters, and my
promising career cut short in its prime.
Would a word put it right?
I made a tentative gesture. “It seems
we’ve fallen into a misunderstanding,” I
said. The Baeyertz voice crackled:
“There’s been no misunderstanding on my
part. Your letter to me was outrageously
insulting, and I want an apology!”
Two minutes to zero! And I was be-
ginning to feel really sorry for the old
man, the hurt to his dignity was now so
obviously real.
I swallowed the remnants of my own
pride and said: “The misunderstanding
was on my part in not realising that. I
beg your pardon.”
The flush and the trembling subsided a
little, but there was no lowering of the tilt
of the head or of the fire in the eyes as he
said: “Granted.”
Then he read his talk, meticulously
articulated according to Baeyertz prin-
ciples.
He was a very old man, and a sick one,
as we later learnt. Within the year he
was dead.
TOM LAKE.
Gogol and Zola .
The present reviewer will be eternally
grateful to Hamish Hamilton’s Novel
Library for introducing him to Gogol’s
Dead Souls, which, under the natural if
scandalously ill-informed notion that it
was a morass of Russian gloom, he read
along with Zola’s Germinal for some
appropriately dismal relief during the
winter coal strike.
Zola, of* course, turned out to be
so thoroughly and tremendously harrow-
ing that there does not seem to be
much reason for any coal strikes to-
day or, indeed, for any lesser “realists”
such as Hemingway. But Dead Souls
is the most lively and engaging of
picaresques, in the key of Tristram
Shandy, Such Is Life or The Pea Pickers.
Though it falls to pieces at the end, when
Gogol was preparing the way for a con-
tinuation in which the hero would repent
and be reformed, it is as a good a picture
of Russian manners as has ever been
painted; and, because of its humor, far
more sympathetic than most of Tolstoy
and Dostoevsky.
Some of the hero’s adventures in
a Government housing department—
before he begins dealing in deceased
serfs, which is his master-stroke —
have a strangely topical flavor for Aus-
tralian readers. Some other authors in
this admirably bound and printed Novel
Library are Balzac, Fielding, Thomas
Peacock and Voltaire.
Footnotes
From L. J. Goldie, seagoing master-
pearler of Broome, W.A., 1919-42:
Mrs. Henrietta Drake-Brockman (R.P.
15/6/’49) is wholly to be relied upon when she
describes pearling, fossicking and the life of
trappers and aborigines, etc., in the Nor’-west.
She has been to sea with me on at least two
occasions in my cargo-boat on its trips to the
working vessels of my pearling fleet, has gone
aboard those boats whilst at work on the
“grounds” and thus has seen their daily
routine. She has travelled, first by car and
latterly by ’plane, throughout the Nor’-west,
in addition to which she spent the early years
of her married life raising her family in
Broome, and thus knows of the trials and hard-
ships involved in so doing from her own
experience. Whilst agreeing that she tells a
good story and is always readable, I do not
think there is. any “danger” of her “falling
over the edge of the mountain” when she
writes of pearling and the Nor’-west.
* * * *
The Red Page has received from Mr.
R. G. Howarth, editor of “Southerly,” a
circular setting out the aims of the
recently-formed British Poetry Associa-
tion, of which Mr. Howarth is the Aus-
tralian representative. The Duchess of
Wellington (Dorothy Wellesley) is the
patron, Howard Sergeant the president,
and vice-presidents include Richard
Church, Herbert Palmer, Alan Rook and
Siegfried Sassoon. The idea is to en-
courage the spread of poetry in the
English-speaking world and also, it
appears, to set up a kind of Academy
which will elect associates and fellows.
You become a member for 15s. annually,
which includes the annual subscription to
the association’s quarterly magazine
“Poetry” (available at Bs. 4d. annually to
readers who do not wish to become mem-
bers). The association intends to publish
a “Book of the Year” of poetry and also
a “Commonwealth (Overseas) Book of
the Year” ; later it hopes to publish books
by individual members. Headquarters
are at 243 Blackmoor Drive, Liverpool,
12, England.
* * ♦ *
Arnold Wall’s publishers described The
Pioneers, reviewed on the Red Page
some months ago, as his “final” selec-
tion, and when Wall called on The Bul-
letin during a recent visit to Sydney he
was asked, almost with indignation, why
he had omitted so many excellent poems
from his earlier books. Wall explained
that The Pioneers was a “final selection”
only from his unpublished poems; so
that his astronomical output of short
poems, which was commented on in the
Red Page review, consists not only of the
361 poems of The Pioneers, but of all
the pieces in eight other volumes; At the
Cross Roads (1894), Blank Verse Lyrics,
London Lost, Of the War, The Century
of New Zealand’s Praise, The Order of
Release, Theme and Variations and
About Our Birds. In prose Arnold Wall
has written Flora of Mount Cook, The
Botany of Christchurch and The Botany
of Auckland, as well as many newspaper
essays and an unpublished autobiography.
* * * *
David Ferguson’s A Measure of Corn
(Pen-in-Hand Co., Oxford) is claimed to
be “the key to world economy,” begins
with a translation by Thomas Taylor of
the Orphic Hymn to Ceres and ends
with four lines from William Blake.
In between, Ferguson advances the argu-
ment that there’s no hope anywhere until
the world goes on to a wheat standard
and gives away sterling, dollar, yen,
rouble, pak-a-pu and all others based on
lucre. He has “studied the economic
aspects of wheat” and says that a cereal
standard is the way to peace, and any
nation that opposes it must “intend to
imperil peace.”
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 40
Across.
I—Embitter1 —Embitter a former aeronaut
who is to bat about its extremes.
(10)
s—Brunette5 —Brunette authoress. (4)
8— Gross rage (anagram). (9)
9 Pole broke a Greek vase. (4)
11—Genoese dropped no Christmas
food. (5)
13 — Taxi takes a Latvian and a
quick, brilliant aria. (9)
14— Goes back into the army of de-
ranged listeners. (9)
17 — An expression of impatience by
a short Egyptian king. (3)
18 — Violin strings are sent back by
this vessel. (3)
19— Sally is to leave a backward
donkey in a Spanish province.
(9)
20 — The state of being spruce or little
Nathaniel. (9)
22 —About fifty-one hundred as a
survival from another age. (5)
24 — Siberian river lane is broken up.
„ (4)
25 Is hiding dishonesty before the
pooch quit. (4, 5)
27 — Impetuous symptom of measles.
(4)
28— When His Majesty comes ashore?
(5, 5)
(CRYPTIC TYPE.)
(,Solution in next issue.)
Down.
1 — Potential chicken and a wood-
cutter both turned up with a
sailor who is stretching the truth.
(12)
2 Ancient invader of Britain keeps
fish in a corner. (5)
3 Abyssinian vizier. (3)
4 Morning alternative and a rising
smell. (5)
6 Cuts off the forenoon before
turning up with thanks for the
set up. (9)
7 Casement in happy mood when
showing Dampiers flag. (5, 5)
10 —Disney and an overblown actor •
peevish because of the grape.
. (7, 5)
12 — Oval is full of implications. (10)
13— The possessive objective of the
luggage adventures of Sherlock
Holmes. (5)
15 — Larwood’s field, perhaps, is
characteristic of a spider, (5, 4)
16 — Father’s anger shown in the
ship. (5)
21 —Sounds like a furtive shot in
Ireland. (5)
23 —Behold the horse that runs up
for a berry. (5)
26—Heir. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 39.


safe
%
tneer
fSS&fcitf • • •;■'■;>
Un »5 { 4
>* . *N\ J
* ' .'W
0.
'O
,'i rv «? -> >--
X /**
S
p\^ G !:.* too^
t ec (
,o^
:\s® c
ycV-
o< i s>*r *"
, N w -::; 6a \*f^ e
. ca \w _
*t®
p^tv
e
o» s
S^fS* ,c> i-“*“V.
*e
t*^,
V ead
t**®*
-/>»
G*?
■v* s
*,»- 9^-c *<>*
"T"
AW
nO-J® 4 “ u ,. A VO' nB,
ob^
C®
d* v *
J4\H®
VA« 6 '
£ t)k
Vs 0 ,i A o£ i* otCV
c m <*««*
-Ath o *** . to°^ s
*a a% , c^ vtvS
,ed
ssssa^
fesgsg;;
IH
-f
it
: ■■
THE "MARS”
PLAIN MILLER
A sturdy machine of great accuracy
for a maximum output of High
Quality work. For the rapid milling
‘ of. small Engine Parts, Straight and
Fluted Reamers, Taps, Dies, Splines,
Key Ways and similar work.
THE "MARS"
HEAVY-DUTY RADIAL DRILL
Ideal for use in the average Australian
Machine Shop. Gives performance
equal to im- ported Radial
Drills costing m 3 TIMES AS
MUCH. 8 || Speeds for-
ward, 8 Speeds || reverse. 4ft.
6in. arm.
i' / ' :
•■•• .4.
I
•i :
THE "ATtAS_
«53Pt s.iNCH LATHE
*• f ? Models -X-ong and
Short Bed.) An > deal
High-Speed General Pur-
nose Workshop Lathe of
most pleasing design an
delightful to handle. Ideal
for the Garage and
Automotive Workshop.
Licensed
Manufacturers
in Queensland of
“MEEHANITE”
IRONS
THE "MARS"
ufin. High Speed
SHAPED
for all
Shaping wo*
The Ram is esp f
dally treated to
Prevent seizing, so ||
Sring firm, even |j
niovement.
niCTDIRITTING AGENTS; N.S.W.; Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
“SnTaSu f Co. Pty-. Ltd.,
w!a.= The Weetern MacKinery
.Co.. P'rri.. T.. 0 Ck.r. : . A D r -L.d b ,Hoh„u B « “
C/o Bank of N.S.W., Pori Mo re .by, Papua.
;4 .n.
BRIDGE STREET. VALLEY
1 MACHINE TOOL
IMANF6.CO.
W PTY. LTD.
BRISBANE
I. & O’S. Advt,
