

CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY
A PRODUCT OF THE
Ĵ
HOUSE OF SEPP E L T
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 70—No. 3608
Wednesday, April 6, 1949
Price 6d.
Registered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
CJT. PATRICK’S CATHEDRAL is the
national cathedral of, the Protestant
Church of Ireland; it stands on the site
of the ancient Church of St. Patrick de
Insula, and of the holy well where the
Apostle of Ireland is believed to have
baptised converts. In 1212 the church
was raised to cathedral status, and as it
stood outside the city walls it had to be
fortified against the periodic raids of the
O’Byrnes and O’Tooles who, at that time,
lived in the wild hill country to the south
of the town. The spire, pictured here,
dates from 1739.
For many years various parts of the
cathedral were left to ruin or used as
separate churches. Restoration of the
whole building was undertaken in 1866
by Sir Benjamin Guinness at a cost of
£150,000; Sir Thomas Drew was the
architect. In 1900 a further £30,000 was
spent on the repair of the choir and aisles
by Lord Iveagh.
The cathedral is famous in the annals
of English literature, for it was here that
the great writer Jonathan Swift (1667-
1745) served as dean for 32 years. He
wrote his own epitaph “He lies where
furious rage can rend his heart no more,”
which appears in Latin on his bust in the
cathedral, near the brass tablet which
marks his grave. Here also may be seen
an ancient Celtic Cross which marks the
site of St. Patrick’s holy well near the
tower.
In 1492 a fierce dispute between the
Earls of Kildare and Ormonde, each with
a band of armed retainers, took place in
the nave. The Earl of Ormonde took
refuge in the Chapter House and later,
after a reconciliation had been arranged
between the two earls, an opening was
cut in the door so that they could shake
hands. Today this very door with its
roughly-cut hole can still be seen.
Above the stalls in the choir, the best
preserved portion of the ancient fabric,
hang the swords, helmets and banners of
the Knights of the Order of St. Patrick
who were installed here between the years
1783 and 1869.
(By Courtesy of Irish Tourist Association )
ST. PATRICK'S OF DUBLIM, WHERE JONATHAN SWIFT WAS DEAN.


Wow Jaws'
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address ..:
S.B. UQ
AGE ,
The Red Page
HUGH McCRAE'S PROSE.
Hugh McCrae’s Story-Book Only
(Angus and Robertson) has been edited
by Mr. R. G. Howarth, who explains
in a foreword; —
“My Father and My Father’s Friends,”
which comes first in the book, and which
one remembers from of old for the
beauty and precision of its impressionistic
prose, deals with some 17 or 18 of the
friends of McCrae’s father, in Melbourne
in the ’sixties and ’seventies —some, like
Marcus Clarke,' Adam Lindsay Gordon
and Kendall, notabilities; some, like
Richard Hengist Horne, once thought a
genius, forgotten; some, like the Tar-
paulin Sailor who would say to his fifty-
seven-year-old daughter, “Tammahawk,
leave the room —we are going to talk
bawdy! ”, or the music-master who called
at die McCrae home and drank tea from
the spout of the family teapot; nobodies
immortalised for an oddity.
In the next section, “My Friends and
I,” there is a brilliant character-sketch of
Daniel Green; an account of McCrae’s
first appearance in print when, as a school-
boy, he sent to some village newspaper
an ode “To a Pot of Beer”; a glimpse of
Norman Lindsay in his youth in Mel-
bourne : —
One morning, in the building opposite, a
window flew rapidly up. The sun was
shining and I could see clearly the arrival
on 1 to the roof of a young man whose
radiant personality was destined to influence
the rest of my life.
About nineteen years old, looking almost
too slim in his shirt and trousers, he loped
along the cornice to a precipitous edge,
where, after balancing himself, he cleverly
sat down. A full-sized sketchbook, which
required the use of both hands, came to
rest in his lap; and, while he knocked
some ashes out of his pipe, I noted, from
my observation post, his (even at that
age) dictatorial nose— les yeux d’aiglel —a
Beardsley fringe; and a tarboosh like the
ace of diamonds topping off his adven-
turous head. Soon, a procession with
trombones and drums trundled into the
street below; and the boy, spreading om
his sketchbook, recorded the event.
Lionel Lindsay is remembered from
the same period, chanting in a ten-gallon
hat the praises of Baudelaire ; and Will
Dyson, “young and good-looking, with
eyes full of brightness, a black silk scarf
wound many times round his throat....
full of mockery, humor and discontent.”
And, sometimes in only a line or two,
sometimes in three or four paragraphs,
there are A. G. Stephens, “with a beard
like a bedroom fire,” eating porterhouse
steak with a teaspoon because he had
lent his only knife and fork to Robert
Crawford; Victor Daley joking on his
deathbed; Bernard O’Dowd “rocking
himself, one foot advanced before the
other,” as he recites his poems ; Longstaff
refusing to include Henry Lawson’s shirt-
cuffs in his portrait; and an office girl
who thought she had “read all about Sir
John Longstaff in Shakspeare”; Roderic
Quinn, George Robertson, Brennan
“thundering in Greek,” Le Gay Brereton ;
somebody named Quodling who took a
pie for a walk in a perambulator;
William Moore of The Story of Austra-
lian Art who, when he died, went “to
join his friends George Lambert, Charles
Conder, Tom Roberts, Hugh Ramsay,
and others of the fascinating synchroni
who represented the rays of a sun —
clear of our horizon —at last in the sky” ;
and a picture of Lawson with the same
melancholy dignity one finds in the
Longstaff portrait: —
Lawson had the expression of a dumb
animal, and even though he hated being
pitied it was impossible not to feel sympa-
thetic towards him. At the beginning of
our almost no-acquaintance he would speak
to me, but because I was monosyllabic and
he was deaf he gave it up. Thereafter he
occasionally touched my shoulder and we
would parade several blocks in silence.
These walks always terminated with a
strong squeeze of the hand—and so,
good-bye.
Then —after a handsome appreciation of
Kenneth Slessor’s poetry—there are the
sections “Imaginings” and “Experiences”:
among which there are a short story—or
a nightmare—about concealing dead
bodies m hollow trees ; an anecdote about
a .poet named Dolphin (whose real name
might very well be McCrae), who, to
avoid an unwelcome visitor named
Twigg, pretended to mistake the caller
for himself and then, his “mistake” hav-
ing been pointed out to him, joined Mr.
Twigg in waiting patiently at Dolphin’s
door for the poet to come home ; an
anecdote, in the Munchausen manner,
about an ancient hatter who, being
hungry, ate the tail of his dog, which
thereafter wagged in his stomach when-
ever he happened to whistle ; a nightmare
about an executioner whose eyes had
double centres, intersecting each other;
some short stories in a sort of Cockney
dialect; bits of nonsense apparently
under the influence of the famous “She
married the barber”; some nonsense
poems which seem more than nonsense;
a note on a travelling exhibition of
modern art; and some light essays on
tea, epitaphs, and the favorite Australian
pastime of getting lost in the bush.
One emerges from these middle sec-
tions slightly dazed, with the impression
that one has been watching a magician
pulling from his hat not commonplace
rabbits and ribbons but, to everybody’s
great surprise, nothing at all. True,
McCrae can always pull out a piece of
prose like this:
Waiting for the bus after sunset. Others
also waiting, like bits of fog cut out to
resemble men and women; except a few,
ruffled, and yellowy in the light from
the apple-shop. Irregular shadows point
towards, or away from, the light: creating
an effect of leaves everywhere.
True, there are interesting fragments
of autobiography; there is something
genuinely sinister in the corrupt Mr.
Maggendorf of one of the nightmares ;
there are touches of comedy. But how
slight it all is; how fragmentary; how
very nearly not there at all: McCrae
tells you about his visit to the modern
art exhibition ; he recites, in a paragraph
all to themselves, the names “Gauguin,
Van Gogh, Cezanne, Matisse, Vallotton,
Waroquier, Brianchou”; in the next-
paragraph he writes five lines about
Gauguin ; and about Van Gogh, C&zanne,
Matisse, Vallotton, Waroquier and the
luckless Brianchou not a word. Nobody,
not even Hugh McCrae, can write an
essay by not writing an essay; and that
is pretty well what he tries to do in these
sections.
Next, concluding the book, are “The
Du Poissey Anecdotes,” These, supposed
to be related by one Benjamin Harcourt,
a contemporary and acquaintance of
Johnson, Goldsmith, Gibbon and Swift,
and having as their hero a certain Du
Poissey, a man of rage and practical
jokes, are partly an imitation of Boswell
and partly a vehicle whereon McCrae’s
uproarious imagination may run halloo-
ing through the eighteenth century.
This work, once again, is brief, frag-
mentary and elusive. It is not effective
either as a parody or an imitation of
Boswell and, indeed, when it comes
closest to Boswell’s great Life —as when
(recalling Mrs. Thrale, of course) Du
Poissey is annoyed because a Madame
Moussinac, the widow of a man who
used to allow Du Poissey his cast-off
clothes, thinks of remarrying—it is dis-
concertingly pointless. Judging from Du
Poissey’s raptures on hearing the music
of Nikitishna —singularly like Pepys’s
delight on a similar occasion: “Sir,”
says Du Poissey, “I came away in a
dream a dream which continued all
that day, and through the night into the
following morning and afternoon” —other
writers besides Boswell may have pro-
vided some of the material.
In this derivative setting, Harcourt and
Du Poissey live a ghostly sort of half-
existence, never fully emerging aS
rounded and memorable characters. Yet,
broken and tantalising as they are, “The
Du Poissey Anecdotes” have a strange
and abiding charm. In that same inci-
dent which seems to derive from Pepys,
there is the lucid imagination of McCrae
the lyric poet:
Never shall I forget the last note of the
performance. Sir, it ran up Nikitishna’s
finger, and was caught by him and held
within the hollow of the palm.... Sir, he
closed his hand and lifted it not above
six inches from the keyboard; then he
released the note, and it burst like a bubble
in the air.
And all the way through—in the de-
lightful comedy of the learned commen-
tators who wrangle with each other in
the footnotes; in the Munchausen-like
anecdote of the live geese that had been
locked 800 years in an iceberg; on the
occasion when Du Poissey began reading
from a book at a point 400 pages before
the incident he was seeking to quote, and
proposed to read right through till he
came to it; and when Du Poissey saw
Tom Petersen’s portraits staring in horror
from their frames, clutching at the prison-
bars of his signature and seeming to
cry “Liberty! Liberty!’’—there is the
authentic McCrae, living . vigorously,
fantastically and independently in a book
that really belongs to Boswell.
And all this, wrapped in a fairytale
jacket, and nobly bound in. buckram,
is the collected prose of Hugh McCrae.
It leaves on the mind two entirely con-
tradictory impressions: of its frivolous-
ness, and of its firmness.
It is not a body of work that could
reasonably be compared with the prose
works of two other fine lyric poets, con-
temporaries of McCrae—W. H. Davies
or Walter de la Mare. It is reasonable,
surely, that if a man is to be “one of
our masters of prose,” as McCrae un-
doubtedly is, he should write something ;
and McCrae has written so sketchily, so
briefly, so capriciously...
But then, a poet is under no obligation
to write prose at all; and McCrae has
written much more than this book would
indicate; for, like Byron and like Keats,
he has expressed the full richness of his
personality in his letters. Every letter he
has written is in style, wit, flash of
imagination and even in calligraphy a
little work of art and—it is impossible to
imagine anybody who has ever received
a letter from McCrae destroying it—
these will undoubtedly be published some
day; to provide, along with Story-Book
Only and the legend of his personality,
bulk and reinforcement for his poetry;
a stone for the flame to dance on.
The book’s most solid achieve-
ment is “My Father and My Father’s
Friends,” which, with all unessentials cut
away from its portrayals of the various
characters, preserving, like a set of jewels
cut and polished to catch the light and
to show the hidden depths, only what is
really worth remembering, reminds one
of Aubrey’s Lives. For the rest —a man
cannot be a great lyric poet on Mondays
when he is writing verse, and somebody
else on Fridays when he is writing stories
and essays. There is not a page of Story-
Book Only that does not somewhere
catch fire, if only in a line, in a turn of
speech, with wit or fantasy or beauty,
the force of a unique personality and the
artistry of a poet.
S.
It is as a poet that Hugh McCrae is most
widely known and cherished. His prose is
rather less familiar, because, though he has
published three books and much occasional
work, the books appeared in limited edi-
tions and so are now difficult to obtain,
while no collection of the other writings
has been made for seventeen years. During
that period he has written a good deal
more prose than verse. The time has come,
then, for a thoroughgoing collection.
The present volume accordingly contains
the whole of My Father and My Father’s
Friends, such of The Du Poissey Anecdotes
and the McCrae Number of “Art in Aus-
tralia” as the author wished to perpetuate,
and a comprehensive selection from his
stories, sketches, personal notes, articles,
essays and jokes There is much more to
the collection than the unpretending “Story-
Book Only” would indicate, and this the
reader will soon discover. At least there is
no need to issue a caution against taking
at his own modest valuation one of our
masters of prose.
FIRE AT MURDERING HUT.
I. The Grave
You who were tne snane Hidden under
my house,
the breath of the bushfire —
are you come to take me again like a
storm in the night,
oh storm of my desire ?
Are you come to take me like a knife in
the breast
after this silent century ?
You will find me this time lying alone.
It has been a long time you have left me
with the rose-tree,
the wandering mist and the stone.
Lay down your fire beside my frost again,
against my stone your blade.
I have been too long alone in the drought
and the rain,
it is all true as you said.
Come now and take me —
dig with the blade of your heart into the
grave and wake me;
and this time you will find me lying alone.
I have been here too long with the white
rose-tree,
the wandering mist and the stone.
II. The Fire
Are you one of the old dead, whisperer
under my feet ?
I stamp on your shallow earth
like a red bird, my song is the last message
of love
which is the news of death.
Now I shall eat even your white roses,
and eat
the dry moss on your stone.
Neither love nor death come to the dead,
nor does flesh
grow on the bared bone.
But look, I am beautiful, I dance on your
grave
like a lover’s ghost.
I dance with your tree of roses. I whirl
my blade
till they fall into black dust.
QUEENSLAND.
And though I am not your lover and am
not love
I shall set before I am gone
a kiss on the rose-root to travel down to
your breast;
the last message of love, the fire’s black
stain
to wear like a badge over your white
breastbone.
III. The Stone
Cruel was the steel in the hand that split
my sleep
and branded me with pain.
Why did I not lie forever out of time's
way,
cold, quiet and deep ?
Now I am delivered to the fire again
and set naked in the path of merciless day
for the years to fret me, those instruments
of love
that will eat my stone away.
You, the poor nakedness that lies
beneath—
the bone that love left bare—
/ hear you call on him, the terrible one,
the eater even of death.
If I were hidden in earth, I should lie
quiet there
and forget the summoning cry of the wild
sun,
and forget the fire that would lay open
my heart
for love to tear.
Why can you not lie quiet as the knife
that rots beside your bone ?
It is because the stone that life has once
possessed
is ever starved for life ;
and that is why I am afraid of the stab of
the sun
and the rain’s hands beating my breast.
Fire, do not open my heart. I do not
wish to wake
to the cruel day of love. Leave me my
rest.
JUDITH WRIGHT
Wreckery Nook.
Cardboard-bound, probably intended
for use in schools, and dedicated to the
author’s mother, Seven in the Half-Deck;
“An Account of the Wreck of the Barque
John Murray by John F. Moodie Heddle,
an Apprentice on Board” (Longmans)
would interest anybody who enjoys a
good shipwreck.
In the middle of World War I, the
Commonwealth Government, short of
shipping, took over the 40-year-old three-
masted barque John Murray, nee Loch
Ryan, which had been used as a training-
ship by the Victorian Government since
1910. On January 5, 1918, she sailed for
San Francisco with a cargo of wheat,
then took on motor-cars, explosives and
wood for the return trip to Melbourne.
On May 22, in the early morning, a
sudden and unexpected change of current
wrecked her on a reef off Malden Island,
35 square miles, run by a Melbourne
manager and 15 kanakas as a guano
plantation. On June 10, 20 days after the
wreck of the John Murray, an American
schooner, Annie Larsen, was wrecked on
the same reef; and her crew joined the
John Murray’s crew as guests of the
island’s manager.
On June 16, Captain Vaughan, of the
John Murray, sailed by ship’s boat for
Fanning Island, the nearest cable-station;
and on July 27, thinking that the captain
might have missed Fanning Island, the
chief mate, Mr. Chugg (who had returned
to the sea from retirement as a bookseller),
sailed for Penrhyn Island. Captain
Vaughan made Fanning Island in 13 days,
but the soonest the Melbourne authorities
could get a boat to Malden Island was
August 7, when Howard Smith’s s.s.
Macedon took off both crews. Mean-
while Mr. Chugg and his two companions
made Penrhyn Island in 4\ days, were
most hospitably entertained by the native
chiefs, and were not heard of again until
October, after a lugger took them to
Raratonga.
Mr. Heddle’s treatment of this situation
is enough to make a sensational novelist
tear his hair. To be a really convincing
shipwreck, the John Murray should have
been tossed ashore in a raging storm.
All Mr. Heddle —and Providence, which
seems to have been equally at fault—
could manage was a quiet night, and “a
jarring and scraping . . . like the sensa-
tion one feels in a small boat as she grates
over a sandbank ...”
Again, five hours after the wreck, when
the crew had been bedded down on guano
bags on the other side of the island, the
captain returned to find that the ship had
broken into two parts with 1000 ft. of sea
between them —“she must have blown
up”! No novelist in his senses would
have let captain or crew miss that terrific
explosion.
And again, there is the wife of the
American skipper—the only woman on
the island. Mr. Heddle escorts her to her
quarters and forgets her completely. It
is a sad slur on the gallantry of the ship-
wrecked mariners that, instead of chasing
the captain’s wife, they go chasing pigs
for pork, while the seven young appren-
tices go robbing the nests of the guano-
providing birds, and come racing back
across the island on trolleys fitted with
sails to take advantage of the trade wind.
(Continued on inside back cover.)


TRUTH HIN ADVERTISING"
NTHOIr HORDERIS’
Don’t 7niss the Exhibition of Central
Australian■ Water Colours by Rex
Battarhee, which is being held in our
Fine Art Galleries, Fourth Floor.
W
Ll
gSSS&Z*
u
>v
;---r>.
S«V *
>v- X
-. -
( I 1 r
vO
tm
7 ■
■ ' : J ■ .
! L:
m
-. ■
*• ' >;<.
fc
If a. v
B j
r
I—S
c.nf f r
'*^l- ■;..... .. _ __ _
) 7.--V- *
s I
f-' !
%
B :vB
n 1 B-*>-
1 J la 6-;
•5 <"•
W:S
a
- i
cs>:
-' y « ;J ; €
S
■-• •••■: :
>
iH
■m
J
sc
BLONDE OR WALNUT
incentive Office Suites
WITH COMPLETE LOCKING SYSTEM
We illustrate above an office that says “Success” to all who
enter it . . . what does yours say?
Your office furniture and equipment speak far more eloquently than
any words ... so it pays dividends to have the kind
that speaks for you, and not against you!
Suite comprising pedestal desk sft. x 3ft., eight' drawers, two dictation
slides. Top drawer controls locking system. Blpnde or Walnut colour. £5l/14/6.
Revolving, tilting Chair, self lubricating bearing, wood frame, Blonde or
Walnut finish, multi-sprung leather covered seat and back.
Brown, Blue, Red or Cream mottled hide. £l5/2/3.
Client’s Arm Chair to match. Sprung leather upholstered seat and back. Blonde
or Walnut finish. £l3/4/3.
TYPISTE DESK.
Solid top, 3ft. x 2ft., txvo drawers,
finished in Medium Oak colour.
£5110f6.
HALL TABLE.
Walnut veneer, shaped front, reeded legs.
Fitted with drawers. Height 2ft. 6in.,
depth Ift. 6in., width 3ft. £6/17/3.
- • ... .... , '
OFFICE FURNITURE—THIRD FLOOR. FREIGHT EXTRA. BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY.


KOOTEu proucHu present
fj
J
J
WA
s?
<s
SSsS
-
\
E
ff
:«
Vi
~V.
m
m
mm
**%
-
mm
i
F
A FULL - SIZED FAMILY CAR • . • luxurious roominess, outstanding
economy with these BRILLIANT NEW FEATURES
★ New full-width front seat
★ New enlarged luggage compartment
. ★ New independent front suspension
★ New curved non-dazzle windscreen
★ Proved synchromatic steering column gear control
See the completely
HILLMAN MINX Magnificent at
State Distributors:
QUEENSLAND:
john McGrath motors (pty.) ltd.,
324 Wickham Street, The Valley, Brisbane.
Tel.; L 1817.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
FLINDERS MOTORS LTD.,
62-68 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Tel.: Central 6660.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
JOHN McGRATH MOTORS (PTY.) LTD.,
Head Office and Showrooms:
252 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. Tel.: MA 6838.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA ■:
SKIPPER BAILEY MOTOR CO. LTD.,
900 Hay Street, Perth.
Tel.: B 7174.
VICTORIA ?
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY. LTD.,
222 Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
Tel.: Central 7550.
TASMANIA:
D. L. HOLLIS MOTORS PTY. LTD.,
York and St. John Streets, Launceston.
Tel.: 1676.
A PRODUCT OF THE ROOTES GROUP - ENGLAND AND AUSTRALIA


The Bulletin
Vol. 70—No. 3608
Wednesday, April 6, 1949
“AND THEN LET BATTLE COMMENCE.”
departure for Australia of Mr. Stanley Holloway, the English comedian celebrated for his recitations of “Sam and His Musket” and “Albert and the Lions,”
coincided with the appointment of Mr. Edward J. Holloway as Acting Prime Minister and with rumblings inside the A.L.P. against Communism. The Acting Prime Minister
was an early admirer of the Soviet, and recently said he could show that Communism was based on the teachings of Christ.”
“Ted, Ted! Pick oop thy moosket!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Map”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
XI Box 252IBB; 'Phone. 8U5971.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia ; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
THREE TIERS FOR CRIPPS.
On the eve of St. George’s Day—“ Cry
‘God for Harry, England and St.
George’ ” —the Prime Ministers of the
British Commonwealth of Nations will
meet in London to negotiate in secret the
problem of what sort of a British Com-
monwealth can, in their opinion, be made
stable. Among the difficulties confronting
them is one which none of these pro-
fessedly democratic leaders has yet pub-
licly deigned to mention —namely, that
the masses of the British subjects they
represent have not as yet the faintest ap-
preciation of the revolutionary operations
in their name these leaders are proposing.
This is what Senator McKenna would
doubtless call the “unauthorised” news of
the business from the London Press;
Sir Stafford Cripps has drawn up a
scheme to give the British Commonwealth
a “three-tier” structure —(1) the United
Kingdom, with the King at its head; (2)
the Dominions which would still swear
allegiance to the King; (3) republican
units, not recognising the King, but either
admitting themselves “otherwise” to be
partners in the Commonwealth, or gaining
partnership by virtue of regional pacts
with full Commonwealth members.
This is the official news in a statement
by Mr. Attlee, who has called the con-
ference by urgent special summons;
Matters not fully discussed at the October
meetings of Prime Ministers, involving cer-
tain constitutional questions, will be con-
sidered at a short series of private meetings
expected to last a week.
Since that inconclusive conference to
which the British Prime Minister refers
the most notable domestic development in
the British Commonwealth has been the
passing of the Nationality and Citizenship
Act, identic legislation in the U.K., Aus-
tralia and New Zealand, which makes the
ancient and honorable status of British
subject conditional not upon allegiance to
the King but upon registration as a
citizen of one of these regions. It also
provided that Irish citizens, while no
longer British subjects but reposing in
Sir Stafford Cripps’s third “tier,” will
nevertheless be treated as British for
benefits accruing, or at least for exemp-
tion from any disabilities suffered by
aliens. From a voice in this third “tier,”
although a week before the announcement
of the new Cripps “structure,” came the
first public commentary in Australia.
Archbishop Mannix at a Hibernian Com-
munion breakfast in Melbourne said;
In everything that matters Australia is a
republic just as much as Ireland. The only
difference is that the head of the republic
is elected from time to time, whereas in
Australia its head is the King, who inherits
his presidency by descent and not by elec-
tion. The time has come for great con-
stitutional changes in the Commonwealth
of Nations [no “British” Commonwealth
for him] and I hope the Irish people have
given a lead which will help the Common-
wealth of Nations upon a new and very
happy and prosperous era.
It is this very appeasement of the third
“tier” that is likely to cause most trouble.
For how long does appeasement serve to
appease? This is the position in what was
once simply the British Empire:
Burma and Eire gone, and turned re-
publican.
India preparing to turn republican in
August.
• South Africa threatening to follow suit.
Pakistan and Ceylon uncertain, but sure
of a row with India if they remain in the
second “tier.”
That leaves the United Kingdom, Canada,
Australia and New Zealand as a rump of
the British Association of Nations as
blessed by the Statute of Westminster. Of
these Canada initiated the departure
signalled in the new revolutionary Nation-
ality and Citizenship Acts of these four,
and the Governments of the other three
acknowledge as their strongest political
tie at the moment the fact that each of
them is governed by a Socialist Ministry.
But the division does not stop there.
Whether even their common adherence to
a Socialist programme will maintain a
U.K.-Australasian bloc at the London
conference is extremely uncertain. The
Attlee Government has urgently sum-
moned this meeting because it wants to
keep the Asiatic “Dominions” in the
British Commonwealth. It desires this the
more ardently, because unilaterally, to
preserve what Mr. Attlee’s late personal
adviser calls the “Anglo-Asiatic partner-
ship.” Whether by means of a “Pacific
Pact” or some other treaty, the idea is
apparently that Australia shall persuade
republican India and other Asian separa-
tists to become happy and co-operative
members of a not-too-British Common-
wealth. By all appearances the only kind
of persuasion likely to work would entail
transporting Mr. Calwell to Pitcairn
Island and Dr. Malan of South Africa to
St. Helena. Only to Socialists could such
an idea seem practical politics. Is such
persuasion of the third “tier” by the
second something that can be guaranteed
to last?
Britain’s own condition, her exhaustion
from the recent war gratuitously aggra-
vated by her Socialist Government’s
assaults on that private enterprise which
made the nation what it was, is currently
represented as:
Dependent for at least some years ahead
on American financial aid;
Even with the best results of her efforts
at recovery in the international trading
market, unlikely to regain her erstwhile
place among the nations;
Unable alone to undertake the required
economic development or the defence of
her colonial empire;
Worried by the knowledge that it is
within that colonial empire and within the
Australian continent that the British Com-
monwealth’s resources for providing more
food supplies and raw materials for a
hungry world must chiefly be sought.
How far this is exaggerated, or more than
temporarily true, is debatable. In Europe
Britain will have her hands full with steer-
ing the economic Western Union and the
military Atlantic Pact. To neither of
these are any of the Dominions, except
Canada, yet committed, and the Chifley
Government is very shy of giving more
than lukewarm approval from a station
on what its leader calls “the perimeter.”
Nor are the incipient differences between
the countries of the solid British rump
of the Empire mollififed by the forecasts
for the “new Commonwealth” era as
uttered by enthusiastic young cosmopoli-
tans in British ruling circles. From
Viscount Hinchingbrooke, a Conservative
dabbler in “British Commonwealth rela-
tions,” “S. M. Herald” has published
nebulous observations which could easily
be accredited to the Socialist Lord
Listowel. They postulate the abolition
of Imperial preferential trade under the
exploitation (with “a sense of a common
mission”) of Empire farmlands and indus-
tries for the benefit of all the world, the
creation of “some political expression
of Commonwealth unity” from this
economic collaboration, and the preserva-
tion of the idea of the King in a way
acceptable to those who won’t accept him
as a King at all.
The Australian people, entrenched in
the good old conservative notion that they
are 98 per cent. British and don’t want to
be anything else, are, as the London
“Daily Express” reports of the home
English, “baffled by manoeuvres which
seek to find some magical trick” of be-
longing to the British Commonwealth
without acknowledging the historic senti-
mental ties which have held it together.
The Statute of Westminster was accepted
in Australia hesitatingly and last of all the
Dominions, yet even that prescribed;
Inasmuch as the Crown is the symbol of
the full association of the new members of
the British Commonwealth of Nations, and
as they are united by a common allegiance
to the Crown....
And now, as Mr. Francis Williams, late
“First Adviser on Public Relations” to
Mr. Attlee (he has listened in to all recent
Imperial conferences) remarks on the
scene-shifting for the stage of the “new
Commonwealth”;
What is envisaged is the birth, through
economic and political developments now
being pressed forward with all practicable
speed, of a series of independent nations as
members of a Commonwealth which will
thus become a Union of independent
States girdling the earth, and which, it may
well be, others outside the present British
Commonwealth and Empire may wish to
join because of the political and economic
advantages to be derived from such an
association. (The Triple Challenge, Heine-
mann, 1948).
e ln short, another U.N.O. is his answer.
Is* there not already a U.N.0., sick to
death from the conflict of trying to re-
concile certain members to the simplest
principles (and solemn pledges) of
freedom, peace and goodwill? Have not
three years of U.N.O. effort to organise
world harmony ended in the greatest
rearmament race ever yet seen?
What the end of this frantic unrest
may be no man can say. One thing
certain is that peace and happiness will
not be won for any people through a
deliberate act of felo de se by the British
Commonwealth of Nations that we know.
Pact and Gesture.
With the signing this week of the Atlantic
Pact the glory has departed from Dr.
Evatt’s U.N.O. —and possibly from Dr.
Evatt. True, Mr, Sam Atyeo, a diplomat
so brilliant that since the war he has
risen from such duties as looking after
delegation luggage and accommodation
to almost ambassadorial status, has been
made a senior delegate to help retrieve
the position. But even his appointment
is scarcely likely to offset the world’s
knowledge that Mr. Truman has found
himself too much occupied with import-
ant things to lay the foundation-stone of
the new U.N.O. city.
There seems, indeed, very little justi-
fication for the hundred-million-dollar
city at all. For it is quite obvious that
the Atlantic Pact is bound to replace
U.N.O. as the decider of the world’s fate,
since it can make decisions, which U.N.O.
cannot, and since it has no veto hanging
over it, which U.N.O. has.
About the only unchallenged act'by a
Great Power recognised as such under
the Charter is being performed this week
by the Chinese, who have sent a delega-
tion to Peiping to offer a virtual surrender
to the satellite conquerors of another
Great Power, which professes to be
equally devoted to the tenets of the
Charter under which U.N.O. exists.
The Atlantic Pact is no sudden emana-
tion of war-time enthusiasms created by
“statesmen” like Dr. Evatt and Mr.
Francis Michael Forde, who were our
delegates at San Francisco. It is the fruit
of more than a year’s cautious planning
which has been urged on to completion
by, as much as anything, the spectacle of
U.N.O.’s futility. Its core was estab-
lished by the Brussels Treaty signed by
the Benelux Powers on March 17 last
year, and its principle had before then
been well summarised by the statement of
Mr. Mackenzie King, Prime Minister of
Canada, who had said on February 20
previous:
So long as Communism remains a menace
to the free world it is vital to the defence
of freedom to maintain a preponderance of
military strength on the side of freedom
and to ensure that degree of unity among
the nations which will ensure that they
cannot be defeated or destroyed one by one.
After the institution of • the Berlin
blockade in June, any qualms which some
Atlantic nations had felt about entering
into such an arrangement as was en-
visaged by the scheme evaporated, and if
the Kremlin is now faced by an alliance
which fulfils Mr. Mackenzie King’s speci-
fication it can blame only itself.
By the end of July the United States
and Canada, at first reluctant to take
part, each had an observer present
in London at the military discus-
sions of the Brussels Treaty Powers. By
October any hope which the U.S.S.R.
might have held that there would be a
division of opinion or a holding-back by
any great country in the possible zone
of open Communist warfare was dis-
pelled entirely.
Canada, by that time, was not only
willing for a pact, but was pressing for
it, having again taken the initiative among
the countries concerned in putting reali-
ties into words—this time they came out
of the mouth of the able young Canadian
Defence Minister, Mr. Brooke Claxton:
The only war possible today is a war of
aggression by the Soviets., 1 have heard
, some people—just a few—speak about the
* possibility of Canada being neutral in such
a war. I do not believe that this is even a
theoretical possibility for us. Our vital
interests, even our territory, could be open
to attack. The choice in war would be a
simple one —Communism or Canada. Our
people would not tolerate a position in
which we were passive while our country
was being defended by others....As the
Western Union becomes stronger, any
chance there might be of the Soviet Union
winning an aggressive war will obviously
become less The existence of an Atlantic
Security Pact in 1935 would have prevented
the Second World War in 1939.
The Pact is wholly a defensive union. It
menaces nobody except an aggressor.
Any waverers whom there were among
its potential signatories have ceased to
waver and the profound effect of unity
was already, before it was signed, obvious
in Europe.
On the day on which the Canadian
House of Commons agreed to ratify the
Pact, the Prime Minister and the Leader
of the Opposition walking to meet each
other and shake hands on it, the Nor-
wegian Parliament, in the face of the
most ominous bullying from Moscow,
decided to sign by a vote in the Storthing
of 130 to 13, most of the 13 being Com-
munists. The result of the French pro-
vincial elections in which the Communist
party was almost wiped out was obviously
largely influenced by the determination
of the United States to jettison a tradi-
tional policy and enter the field of
European treaty-making. The effect on
the morale in Italy, too, was evident.
Even South Africa’s Government, hitherto
aloof, appears to be hovering on the brink
of collateral action in Africa, after having
given the scheme a word of praise.
Those who are included in the pact are
ail of one mind and of one purpose —to
prevent war if they can, to teach the
aggressor a lesson if they cannot.
There appears to be one country which
used to be within the ambit of Western
civilisation which is bent upon staying
out. Dr. Evatt is still a stubborn neutral,
pinning his faith on the wisdom of El
Salvador and the strength of Colombia
and Liberia. And Mr. Chifley apparently
is with him in deprecating the invasion by
the Western nations of Dr. Evatt’s pre-
rogatives as the resolver of the world’s
asperities and the apportioner of human
rights and equities.
The value of the few words of wary
approbation which the P.M. uttered on
a Saturday morning when his message
was likely to receive minimum attention
from the Press was shown by subsequent
developments. He is going this month
to attend the conference at which Mr.
Attlee and other Prime Ministers are to
consult, it is said, in the hope of finding
a way out of the embarrassments and
terrors which beset them as the result
of India’s determination to follow Burma
outside the British Commonwealth. And
he is leaving behind, as his deputy, at
the time when a gesture of support for
the Western Nations was most needed, a
Minister who for nearly 30 years has been
a supporter of Communist and Russian
ideas —Mr. E. J. Holloway, his Minister
for Labor and Industry,
That democrat hailed the adoption of
the A.L.P. socialisation objective in 1921,
at the Trade-union Congress over which
he presided, with the encomium that it
was “a magnificent result,” remarking
that he felt the workers of Australia had
at last adopted the slogan of Karl Marx
—“Workers of the World Unite”—thus
making accomplished fact of “one of the
dreams of his life.”
In the “Communist” of November,
1922, he wrote, celebrating Red Army
Day:— y
In answer to your request for an opinion
re the Russian revolution, I am forwarding
the following, but it is impossible to do
justice to such a wonderful event or to
one's self in dealing with such an important
event in the space allotted. Long live the
Russian Revolutionfeel sure the Aus-
tralian workers en masse look forward to
the day when the objective for which our
Russian comrades made such sacrifices —
the complete emancipation of themselves
and the workers of the world —will be
crowned with success... .Lpng live the
Russian Soviet Republic!
Twenty-six years later, a Minister of
State, he still believes that he “could
show that every aim of the Communist
movement throughout the world is based
on the teachings of Christ.”
Mr. Chifley could not have better
demonstrated where he stands in relation
to the Atlantic Pact and Western civilisa-
tion if he had used all the words in the
Oxford Dictionary than by appointing a
man with this view at such a time, to be
Acting Prime Minister and Acting Minis-
ter for External Affairs.
Action, Mr. Colwell!
The Department of Information is film-
ing Mayne Lynton’s production of
“Twelfth Night” at Sydney Theatre
Royal. Perhaps this film will open the
eyes of the Minister for Information and
Immigration, Mr. Calwell, to what is
going on in these parts*
The film will provide permanent docu-
mentary evidence of the methods by
which Southern Europeans are evading
our immigration laws, as shown in the
case-history of Sebastian, a Messaline
national, and his sister Viola, who land
on different parts of the sea-coast without
passports and mingle unchallenged with
the population*
That they have been carefully prepared
for this sinister intrusion is evidenced by
their excellent English, betrayed by only
a slight sing-song of intonation and an
occasional tendency to Oriental imagery.
Their intentions are highly suspect, The
brother, Sebastian, has often been seen
in company with a most dangerous char-
acter known as Antonio, either an illegal
immigrant or an escaped prisoner-of-war,
who has been heard to confess in public
that he has served with the enemy; or,
in his own garbled English;
“I do not without danger walk these
streets. Once, in a sea-fight, ’gainst the
Count, his galleys, I did some service; ot
such note, indeed, that were I taken here
it would scarce be answered.”
The veiled reference to Captain Col-
lins, of H.M.A.S. Sydney, as Die Count,
explains all. This “Antonio” is a former
member of the Italian Navy who served
against us, in the Mediterranean, and,
the film will probably make clear, Security
Police have already caught up with him.
Provided it can be established that he is
not a Communist, his deportation may be
regarded as certain.
Meanwhile, Sebastian and his sister
roam the countryside with impunity, the
girl with singular freedom from prosecu-
tion, either as a vagrant or for imperson-
ating a man. More, because of some
claim they make to birth and breeding,
they have been taken up by society—and
here Mr. Calwell will be well advised to
act quickly. , ...
For it is reported that they are bot
engaged to be married; Sebastian to the
wealthy Australian widow, Countess
Olivia, nee Smith, who has recently made
one of her rare appearances mSydne .
and his sister to the exiled Duke or
Orsino, better known as ’Orsey Orsino,
the nightclub proprietor. Their weddi -
bells, as Mr. Calwell hardly needs remind-
ing, will be the knell of any pleasure he
might take in deporting them—and tm
Liberals will have two extra votes at tnc
coming elections,


PLAIN ENGLISH
Miners' Might Is Right.
In his award in the Kemeira tunnel arbi-
tration, Mr. Justice Kelly said a few
things that badly wanted saying by some-
one in authority about the Communist-
run Miners’ Federation, its swashbuckling
in the Australian industrial community,
and its unfitness for recognition in the
realm of industrial law.
The Coal Tribunal’s voice on such
matters appears to have lost any convic-
tion it had. The two “Labor” Govern-
ments which jointly control coalmining in
N.S.W. have for so long been appeasing
the wreckers that they have forgotten
they possess any authority to check them.
Mr. Justice Kelly condemned the
Miners’ Federation on every count. He
found that the tunnel which was one of
the objects of dispute—others were the
Federation’s attempted body-snatching
from the A.WfIJ. in other fields —was
neither a coalmine nor part Of one. He
found that for the purposes of the A. I.
and Steel Co.’s Kembla works urgency
in construction of the tunnel was of
first importance, and that whereas the
contractors*with A.W.U. men proposed
to finish it in three years, under the
Federation’s control over the job it would
probably take nine and a half years.
The criterion of this essential matter
was experience on the Bulli tunnel, be-
gun in April, 1944, as an urgent under-
taking for war needs. There the Miners’
Federation had refused to permit three
shifts to be worked, threatening to order
a general strike ; the Federal Government
had capitulated to this threat; and, even
so, of 2406 available shifts on a two-shift
basis, 360 had been lost by stoppages,
mostly irresponsible. Other agreements
at Bulli were also dishonored, and orders
of the Coal Tribunal were disobeyed and
not enforced.
These were some of the Judge’s stric-
tures on the Miners’ Federation in the
Kemeira tunnel case:
Instead of seeking an award [in terms of
a conditional agreement with the A.W.U.]
the Federation sanctioned a strike of all
members of its southern district while
negotiations were proceeding. Mr. Smart,
vice-president of the district, had the
audacity to 1 think [and say] that the strike
“would assist the negotiations.” The truth
is the strike precluded the possibility of
negotiations....”
The Federation has not been prepared to
allow the matter to proceed to a settlement
by negotiation Instead, the threat was
to extend the strike to other districts so as
to force capitulation upon the [tunnel]
men, the A.W.U., and the employer.
During an adjournment in the hearing
before Judge Kelly two representatives of
the Federation entered the workings with-
out permission and addressed the men.
They did not ask permission, one of them
“impudently” said, “because we knew we
would be refused.” This deliberate de-
fiance of arbitration proceedings “was
undoubtedly calculated to present the
Arbitrator with a fait accompli and
render its arbitration a futility. At the
best, it would make a decision adverse
to the Federation a cause of dissatisfac-
tion and probably occasion further in-
dustrial trouble.”
The general attitude of the Federation,
evinced throughout this dispute, [is] that
the statements of all parties, except itself,
should be regarded as binding admissions;
but that its own undertakings were always
subject to reservation or modification or
even withdrawal.
That is a perfect description of Moscow
policy in international affairs, which is
the example set for Moscow’s fifth-
column in all countries, including Aus-
tralia.
Mr. Justice Kelly said it was clear that
the two organisations could not live
together on a job. The Federation had
“gone a very long way in disqualifying
it from participation in the system of
arbitration for the purposes of which
the law has granted the Federation its
registration.” The Judge made his order
in favor of the A.W.U, not only because
of the Miners’ Federation’s “constitutional
incapacity to cover the work,” but also
because, of the two, the A.W.U. was
likely to accept arbitration upon disputes
that might arise.
The reply of the Communist majority
on the Combined Mining Unions’ Council
is the issue of an ultimatum in Queens-
land in preparation for a general strike.
£lO a Week and Bust.
Nobody inside or outside the A.C.T.U.
can believe that Australian industry has
any hope of paying a basic wage of £lO,
plus margins; yet that is what the claim-
ant body had decided to demand before
the Federal Arbitration Court.
It would entail an increase of about 66
per cent., or £4 a week on the present
basic wage, and would set in train a
vastly higher rate of lifts at each quarterly
adjustment, which would make a farce
of estimates of expenditure in the Budgets
of every Government in the land. In
N.S.W. such a rise in the basic wage
would add on that count alone in one
hit some £12,500,000 in the State’s annual
wage bill for transport services; and,
according to Premier Hollway, it would
cost the Victorian Government another
£10,000,000 a year in wages.
In the 40-hour week case the Federal
Arbitration Court heard at great length
airy representations by State “Labor”
Governments that they could easily dis-
charge the extra cost,of that comparative
fleabite. The court, which has been
given discretion to consider the national
interest in its wage rulings, should
certainly require to hear from (say) Mr.
McGirr how the N.S.W. Government
would continue to meet this proposed
new commitment.
The effect on commercial industry and
on the efforts of prices commissioners to
control the cost of consumer goods and
services would be catastrophic. An
atomic bomb could not do worse. An
additional demand by union executives
is that prices shall be pegged while this
mad jig is played for sky-high wages. If
anything were then wanting to kill em-
ployment—“full” or otherwise —stone-
dead, pegged prices in such circumstances
would deal the final blow.
“Capacity to pay” is one yardstick
which union advocates pretend to have
readied up for the court. That bureau
which Mr. Holloway has been establish-
IN THE “WORKERS’ FATHERLAND.”
“Ernie Thornton, Communist secretary of the Federated Ironworkers, has left for Moscow
without A.C.T.U. sponsorship at a time when Communists in Australia are being given a
rough time on the public platform.”
“Welcome, Comrade Thornton! And don’t imagine any trade-unionist will throw
an egg at you in Moscow. We're very short of eggs, and our trade-unionists
are mostly in Siberia.”
ing to gather more accurate statistics for
guidance in these matters will have but
poor evidence of such “capacity” from
the current drag in man-hour, produc-
tion ; and indeed the failure of Mr.
Chifley’s now-hackneyed call for more
production in order to save his economic
planning from disaster is direct witness
of the impoverishment of the only source
from which higher real wages can be
drawn. The A.C.T.U. executive itself has
only now, after two years of indecision,
been induced by a small majority vote
to consent to investigation of incentive-
payments as a means of increasing pro-
duction ; even so, nothing can come of it
before next spring, when the A.C.T.U.
Congress meets. The A.C.T.U. case is,
therefore, presented broadly to the court
as asserting a right of the individual to
ever-rising pay while objecting to any
extra man-hour effort in return, and
refusing to regard wages and work done
for wages as in any way complementary
to each other.
At this point the A.C.T.U. will be left
arguing for a £lO a week basic wage
even if it brings blue ruin upon industry
or reckless inflation of the national cur-
rency.
And that is just about what the unions’
case amounts to, anyway.
The Vanishing Tradesman.
If the fighting services are finding it
hard to obtain volunteer recruits, so are
the skilled trades. So poor is the inflow
of apprentices that some thoughtful
union-leaders are beginning to wonder
whether their unions will fade away like
the aborigines. Earlier union outlook on
the proportion of apprentices that may
be admitted to any particular trade is
now being readjusted, and some o£ the
newer awards put no restrictions on ap-
prentice numbers. In others, restricted
proportions still apply, and there are
some in which a vicious vested interest
manifests itself, especially where Com-
munists are in control.
All this illustrates a position that
worries not only employers and unionists,
but also people concerned with the future
of industry. It should also be worrying
the politicians, though if it is they show
few signs of it.
There is an overall shortage of junior
labor, caused partly by the lowered birth-
rate of the “depression years” of 1930-33
and partly by the general manpower
shortage. But a major cause of the lack
of apprentices is the high wages offered
to youths in unskilled occupations and
the poor margins for skill in unions
which have allowed themselves to be
swamped by laborers —the Ironworkers’
is one case. Youths of years can
pick and choose among jobs which offer
them anything from £7 to £lO a week
for work calling for a minimum of skill,
to which they are not bound by inden-
ture, and from which they may take a
day or two off with impunity whenever
they feel like it. They often feel like it.
The apprentice, on the other hand, binds
himself to a trade for four or five years
and gets anything from £2 to £5 a week
less than his unbound fellows. Even so,
in some trades apprentices are lacking
only because the unions won’t allow them
to be indentured.
But the future looms close, waiting to
exact its penal ty. At present an inordinate
proportion of the manufacturing strength
of the country is concentrated on the
production of consumer goods; there is
far too small an output of capital goods,
including homes, roadways and other
transport conveniences. This is obvious
in the falling into ruin of railway and
tramway systems, shortage of ships,
dilapidated roads, and so forth. It is
obvious, in Sydney, in the dreary pro-
gress of public works like the Quay rail-
way and Warragamba dam. It is obvious
pretty well everywhere in the housing
situation and in the fact that little per-
manent constructional work is under way.
When the swing comes, as come it
must, the existing shortage of apprentices
will be felt. When the demand for
“luxury” goods falls, when there are more
unskilled men than jobs for them, when
commerce and industry stop competing
for untrained-lad labor, when the country
wants leadership from skilled men and
hasn’t the skilled men to provide it, work
will be held up, capital tied up, trade
throttled and employment strangled.
Then today’s policy of “full employment”
will be seen for the fallacy it is.
In a community where freedom of the
individual is still held dear it is hard to
find a corrective. In Britain the Labor
Government actually conscripted lads
into the coalmines. Australia wants no
“Bevan boys.” It does, however, want
boys to learn trades. The expansion of
industry has made the need for training
tradesmen so great that in the metal
trades alone the employers could take in
30 p.c. more apprentices than are coming
forward. If some way isn’t found to
persuade boys into training, the country
will be bogged down in a morass of
unskilled labor by 1955.
Full of Holes.
The International wheat agreement —
which won’t be one unless the 42 nations
concerned all sign it by April 15 —seems.,
to be a thing of shreds and patches, since
it fixes highest and lowest prices, annual
export quotas and annual guaranteed
purchases, but prevents nobody from
trading in wheat to their heart’s content
outside the bounds of the agreement.
Anyhow, subject to ratification by those
nations which have Parliaments —of
whatever kind —and those which have
some other ruling body, it is to come into
force on August 1.
Although one cheerful optimist holds
that it “will successfully conclude nearly
20 years of effort to stabilise world wheat
through international co-operation,” Ar-
gentina, one of the biggest exporters,
isn’t in it; neither is Russia, which has
dumped wheat into Europe before and
would do it again if it suited her.
Meantime the thing is to run for four
years, with a maximum price of about
11s. 3d. a bushel for the first year, drop-
ping to about 7s. 6d. in the fourth year.
Export quotas: Australia, 80,000,000
bushels; Canada, 203,069,635 ; U.S.A.,
168,069,365 ; France, 3,306,934 ; Uruguay,
1,837,185. Import guarantees by the 37
importers range from Britain’s 177,067,938
bushels to Liberia’s 36,744. But here’s
the rub:
As long as the Governments take the
necessary measures to see that their obliga-
tions under the agreement are carried out,
it is open to them to conduct their trade in
whatever manner they wish, by private trade
or by Government institutions.
Any country is free to buy or sell addi-
tional wheat from or to any country it
desires and at any price. Furthermore,
under the agreement, exporters have
no obligation to sell wheat unless buyers
offer the ceiling price, and importers have
no obligation to buy wheat unless exporters
offer it at the minimum price.
With these and other “escape clauses,”
and with Russia and Argentina operating
outside the agreement, it is all about as
“stabilising” as a cow cavorting in a
rowing-boat. Not all interested Ameri-
cans are sold on the agreement, which, on
present prices, means the U.S. Treasury
having to cough up about 50 million
dollars in subsidies to growers. The
Senate, which knocked back the 1948
agreement, is by no means certain to
accept the % 1949 one,
London “Times” doesn’t like it, re-
marking that, it “leaves much in doubt.”
With that most Australian wheatgrowers
will agree, especially as the Australian
export quota could leave Australia with
a 20- to 40-million-bushel surplus, ac-
cording to the season, whereupon the
Australian Wheat Board or Mr. Pollard
or somebody claiming ownership under
the Canberra “stabilisation scheme”
would have to battle around for cus-
tomers, perhaps at any price.
Anyhow, before Federal Parliament
ratifies the thing, Mr. Pollard has
promised to “discuss it with growers'
organisations.” The discussions ought to
be interesting.
Chifley in the Box.
Another week of an inquiry which is
shaking the political world:
Newspapers expressed naive astonishment at
the P.M.’s appearance as a witness at the
inquiry into the affair of the Bulolo Valley
timber, the value of which has been calculated
at £15,000,000. It was a necessary sequel to
his Customs Minister’s evidence (the Customs
Minister is Senator Courtice, successor to
Dick Keane, who died before the still-
unravelled mystery of certain trunks laden with
American finery came under discussion), evidence
which was itself-in consequence of allegations
made in the box by the Parer brothers, Ray
and Leo.
Senator Courtice had declared that, in June,
1947, upwards of six mbnths before the Crown
Law authorities were called in, and shortly
afterwards, he “mentioned” to Mr. Chifley the
damaging allegation against External Territories
Minister Ward made to him at Canberra by
Leo Parer, and apropos of which the P.M.,
who, it was recorded, “took the oath and kissed
the Bible,” gave this testimony:
Senator Courtice mentioned to me that
one of the Parers had said to him there
was some dishonest or shady transaction
in New Guinea and the Minister —I took
it to mean Mr. Ward —was in it. My reply
to that was “We hear some strange stories
in this job of ours, and I don’t think any-
body who knows Eddie would doubt his 1
honesty.” That was the whole of the
conversation, and at no time did I mention
the matter to Mr. Ward. Nor can I re-
member Senator Courtice mentioning it to
me again until after [Leo] Parer had given
evidence before the royal commission.
Justice Ligertwood put searching questions to
the P.M. (“Can you remember Senator Cour-
tice mentioning this matter to you again”?—
“No.”) and to Ward, being specially curious to
learn why Garden had had the run of Ward’s
External Territories office, with the use of its
notepaper, when nominally, at least, under E. J.
Holloway, Minister for Labor and National
Service. “That,” Mr. Ward replied, “was a
matter for Mr. Holloway”—“poor old Hollo-
way” to S. M. Bruce, in the Bruce-Page time,
and at present Mr. Chifley’s deputy P.M.
In reply to Ward’s counsel, the P.M.,
acknowledging a fervent tribute to “Eddie’s
honesty,” said he had known “Eddie” for “a
great number of years—probably twenty.” He
was not questioned as to his opinion of “Eddie”
in 1931, when the interesting pair were in
ferociously hostile “Labor” factions and Mr.
Chifley lost his seat, Macquarie, which he
did not regain for nine years.
Ward was in the box for the greater part
of last week’s hearing. He denied Garden’s
accounts of their domestic intimacies and of
a secret party fund in his electorate of East
Sydney, and he had “no recollection” of
any meeting with Ray Parer or any expression
of gratitude from that person for a permit to
visit New Guinea in 1945 on Bulolo timber
business. At the end of that year “Garden
told me Parer had applied for a timber licence,
and that was all I knew about it”; nor, until
the end of 1947, had he met or even heard of
Farrell or communicated with Farrell s solicitor.
Why did he get departmental secretary Halhgan
to speak to Garden? Well, Garden was the
secretary of his electorate and council, ana
I wanted to keep in with him.” And there was
o Continued at foot of next page.}


6661E-R
CRAVEN “A"
Their quality and smoothness
is unmistakable
made specially ih ./$
bleverft soie tfaoafe
CARRERAS LIMITED OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
mi
“nothing strange in my handling matters for
someone like Parer, who was outside my elec-
torate.” “I suppose not,” commented Justice
Ligertwood, who introduced this line of interro-
gation. “You wanted to please everyone in
Australia. You were out for votes, like every
other member, if you could get them legiti-
mately.”
It was true that he, Ward, had the power
to grant a New Guinea timber licence, but he
would never have exercised it. It was “definitely
untrue” that Garden had handed him £5OOO
in £lO notes and been told to take the roll
to Bill Urquhart, now general manager of
Sydney Pincombes. That post of manager had
been offered to himself at £2OOO a year, but
he had refused it and (successfully) recom-
mended Bill. His assets were inconsiderable —
a house, bits of vacant land, £l5OO in Com-
monwealth loans and a bank-balance resulting
from his salary. He went to the races occa-
sionally, and Mrs, Ward liked punting—“she
had £2 or £3 on at the most, and not in every
race.” Touching the Forshaw correspondence
of November, 1947, which resulted in Garden's
getting three years for forgery, it was probable,
on “the law of averages,’ 7 that he. Ward, dic-
tated a reply to the Forshaw letter; but “a lot
of things happened in this case which would
never have occurred had I suspected any wrong-
doing.”
During the week a “Wales” bank-inspector
deposed that the affair of Ainslie Kmgsford, who
disappeared at the end of January, 1948, after
producing dockets relative to Ward’s safe-
deposit box at the Garden trial, had nothing
to do with the royal-commission proceedings.
It was “merely by chance” that Kingsford was
chosen to carry the dockets to the Court, and
his disappearance was ascribed to “financial
and personal worries” —he was a badly-knocked
World War I soldier.
POLITICAL POINTS
During its years in Opposition “Labor,”
both here and in Britain, was against
secret diplomacy, being all for the Wil-
sonian doctrine of “open covenants
openly arrived at.” Nowadays it seems
to regard secrecy as the chief essential of
all negotiations. Discussions preceding
the Nationality and Citizenship Bill were
kept strictly under the hat until they
were dragged out during the debate on
the bill when it was too late for discus-
sion to do any good. Now the Com-
monwealth Conference, probably the most
important ever held, is to be conducted in
an atmosphere more suited to a con-
spiracy. And it may yet turn out that
that is what it really is.
The view has often been expressed
here that the so-called clever diplomats
of the Kremlin are in reality a bunch
of clumsy bunglers. Churchill seems to
agree. In Boston he said:
Under the impact of Communism all free
nations are being welded together as they
have never been before and never could
be but for the harsh external pressure to
which they are being subjected.
The cry of “no foreign entanglements”
dominated U.S. policy for over a century,
and in 1939 not even the imminent threat
of Nazi invasion could make the small
countries of Western Europe band to-
gether for mutual protection. Yet this
week America, Britain, France, Canada,
Norway, Denmark, Holland, Belgium,
Luxembourg, Iceland, Italy and Portugal
signed a pact of mutual aid. Statesmen
in 12 countries worked hard to achieve
agreement, but Churchill’s “thirteen men
in the Kremlin” -are the real architects
of the Atlantic Pact.
In the belief that price-control by the
States has been a failure, the A.C.T.U.
proposes to invite the Chifley Govern-
ment to hold another prices referendum.
But for all their protestations it is doubt-
ful if the Chifley crowd want the price-
control baby back—especially in an elec-
tion year.
As a result of last Thursday’s triennial
election —members of both Houses voting
together on a Proportional Representation
basis—“ Labor” has a majority in the
N. S. Wales Legislative Council for the
first time since the Upper Chamber was
reconstituted in 1933 ; a majority of one
plus an Independent, hut still a majority.
The McGirr can now knock the dust
off some of the bills he has been holding
on the shelf, but he is not likely to dis-
turb < that on the Council Abolition Bill,
pledged though his party is to eliminate
the second Chamber. Until last year all
an M.L.C. stood to lose by voting himself
out of existence was a gold pass; now
he would be giving up £3OO a year exes.
Furthermore, an abolition bill would
have to be confirmed by referendum, and
“Labor” is not likely to risk that with
an election due next year.
The A.C.T.U. intends to base its claim
for a £lO basic wage on two grounds;
the increased productive capacity of the
nation and the “socially necessary” re-
quirements of the average family.
“Socially necessary” is a phrase lifted
from Karl Marx, who held that the value
of an article was determined by the
amount of “socially necessary” labor put
into it. He never satisfactorily explained
how the amount was to be arrived at.
The A.C.T.U. will probably be no more
specific than Marx was.
The wildest visionary in fiction or
history has nothing on the Sydney
Premier. With his existing tram, bus and
railway services falling into disrepair
and incurring heavier losses, with his
Eastern Suburbs railway, Darling water
scheme. Snowy diversion and 90,000
homes little more than dreams, and with
his State roads breaking up, his hospitals
falling down and his schools in disrepair,
with his Transport Minister buying steel
from Japan because under the McGirr
40-hour week and sabotage in the Mc-
Girr coalmines there isn’t enough steel
to go round, the man is out with a vast
£2O million scheme to electrify the Lith-
gow, Newcastle, Port .Kembla and Goul-
burn lines. He probably also has a plan
for a rocket service to the moon.
Although Mr. Attlee and Mr. Chifley
are silent on the matters to be discussed
a; the Commonwealth Conference, India’s
Pandit Nehru is quite outspoken. He
leaves no doubt that it is his intention to
make India an independent republic,
though he thinks the British Common-
wealth may be shaped to “permit our re-
maining a member without compromising
our independent status.” If Attlee and
Cripps have evolved some form of opera-
tion on the British bulldog whereby the
tail, or various segments of it, can still
try to wag the dog after self-chosen ampu-
tation, that is a matter between them and
History. Mr. Chifley should let it be
known that Australia will not assist in
the operation. If an anaesthetist is
wanted. Dr, Malan will probably oblige.
In Queensland Parliament last week
Premier Hanlon did some more explain-
ing about Blair Athol. A Q.P.P. member
wanted to know if there was anything
in a statement by D. M. Corrie, of Blair
Athol Collieries, Ltd., that the place
could produce a million tons a year if
transport was available. Mr. Hanlon
said he didn’t know whether it could be
done with present finances and equip-
ment, adding that Blair Athol recently
failed to supply coal for which rail-trucks
were available. Blair Athol is suffering
the common fate of enterprises in which
Governments have any hand.
When the Bill for a Bloated Parliament
was being debated last year, the provi-
sions for Senate elections were said
by Federal Ministers to have the
approval of the Proportional Repre-
sentation Society in London. Writ-
ing to the “West Australian,” Hal Cole-
batch claims to have received letters and
a cable from the Society denying that the
proposals had even been submitted to it.
It is doubtful whether they would have
been submitted to anyone had they not
seemed to provide the only certain means
whereby “Labor” could retain control of
the Senate next year.
Reopening of the Victorian Parlia-
ment last week found the Hollway Gov-
ernment still functioning, with three
parties in opposition. At the close of last
session the Country party was the official
Opposition, but resignations since then
had reduced its strength to 16. There
are 17 “Labor” men in the House, includ-
ing Mr. Mutton, who describes himself
as “Independent Labor,” and there had
been some doubt whether the C.P. would
remain the official Opposition. The
Speaker’s ruling was that Mr. Mutton
was a one-man party. This meant that,
the Country party and “Labor” being
equal in number, the usage of the previ-
ous session would prevail.
Anybody trusting enough to imagine
that the McGirr transport enterprises
might get a little on the credit side this
year must have been dashed by the an-
nouncement of Transport Minister
O’Sullivan that the outfit has had to
order steel from Japan at £45 a ton, as
against the home price of £l7 a ton, be-
cause there isn’t enough of the local
stuff to go round. Yet what McGirr
voice was raised against coal and steel
strikes which have caused the shortage
of steel?
During the absence in London of Mr.
Chifley, E. J. Holloway will act as Prime
Minister, Had he visioned the possi-
bility in a crystal ball 20 years ago he
wouldn’t have believed it. When he de-
feated S. M. Bruce in Flinders, The Bul-
letin recorded that he was
too weary in mind and body to do much
rejoicing. The strain of many years of
union work, involving endless controversies,
has told on him, and months ago he re-
signed the secretaryship of Melbourne
Trades Hall Council, the resignation to take
effect at Christmas time. He opposed Bruce
again more to oblige his party than to earn
a free pass to Canberra; he expected to
rattle the Priminister, but not to beat him.
Holloway is reckoned a “moderate” nowa-
days, but in other years he supplied an
effusive preface to a reprint of a Trotsky
speech. Holloway was one of Tom Mann’s
pupils in socialist economics.
Twenty years later two facts emerge: (1)
Canberra must be less wearing on mind
and body than Melbourne Trades Hall,
and (2) “moderate” socialists are only
moderate until they get the power in their
hands. Holloway was in the chair at the
1921 All-Australian Trade Union Con-
gress when the socialisation objective was
written into “Labor’s” platform. He is
a Minister of the Chifley Government,
which is doing its damnedest to give
effect to the platform.
A pastoral inspector and valuator in
Queensland claimed £420 for valuing a
property. When the owners refused to
pay he took them to the Supreme Court.
Judge Philp determined the fee at £lB5,
the defendants having paid in £l2O to
satisfy the claim. Giving his finding, the
Judge generally described valuation as
“an opinionated guess.” That is a fair
description as far as pastoral and agri-
cultural lands are concerned, and it shows
up the Dedman-Sheahan soldier-settle-
ment squabble in its true light—a row
between bureaucrats.
Although Victorian motorists pay £5
million a year in petrol-tax—supposedly
for the maintenance and building of
roads —the State gets less than £1 mil-
lion a year from the Commonwealth for
road works. So says Premier Hollway,
whose Country Roads Board is to seek a
£5 million loan for country-road improve-
ment. Mr. Hollway’s party, Federal and
State, has a useful election weapon in
the iniquitous petrol-tax and the mis-
application of the revenue therefrom —
if it cares to use it.
The Prime Minister has issued a warn-
ing that the present high prices of wheat
and wool cannot be expected to continue
indefinitely. Admitted; but why are all
estimates of Federal expenditure based on
the assumption that they will ?
Just as the A.C.T.U. was congratulating
itself on its handling of the situation pre-
sented by the break-up of the World
Federation of Trade Unions —it had
decided, by no means unanimously, not
to send a delegate to the Milan con-
ference and to defer a decision on dis-
affiliation until later in the year—“ Ba-
lance Sheet” Thornton announced his in-
tention of attending the Red show as its
representative. His argument was that
congress had chosen him as delegate last
year and only congress could depose him.
The executive thought differently, but
Thornton left for Europe just the same.
He is going to Moscow to hear the Soviet
“trade-union” leaders make their annual
obeisance to “Our great and glorious
leader Stalin,” and he will drop in at
Milan on the way back. The A.C.T.U.
was also invited to the Moscow shindig.
It declined, but will send “fraternal
greetings.”
Lovegrove, of the Victorian A.L.P.,
forgets in his condemnation of the R.S.L.
anti-Communist activities —“wrong and
foolish,” and “indistinguishable from
those of Communists and Nazis,” he calls
them —that the ex-servicemen fought to
save this country from such tyranny, and
that, if any in Australia has a right to
tell these traitors where they belong, it is
the service organisations. “Labor,” on the
other hand, has jettisoned its right to re-
prove either of them.
Mrs. Blackburn, M.H.R. for Bourke
(Vic.), is a sincere and conscientious mem-
ber, and she was apparently in earnest
when she asked Mr. Dedman recently
whether delays in the turn-round of ships
in Melbourne might be due in part to
the men being told by shipping companies
to “take their time.” Mr. Dedman g ot
in touch with the Minister for Shipping,
and within three weeks was able to ex-
plain that telling a man to take his time
was got the same thing as telling him to
string out the job. Calwell’s Information
boys should get out a brochure of Aus-
tralian colloquialisms for the benefit of
Parliamentarians, male as well as female.
Brisbane “Courier-Mail” let itself go
over the Hanlon Government’s intention
to increase the number of seats, the bill
having been forced through last week:
A shameful thing that showed con-
tempt for the people’s wishes nice piece
of political trickery... .the Labor party
stands to gain so heavily by the change
that it probably will never be shifted from
office.
The paper remarks that a motion for a
referendum was bluntly rejected by the
same Government which created legisla-
tion to ensure that the Legislative Council
could not be restored without a refer-
endum, and' that Mr. Hanlon refused to
create a permanent board of electoral
commissioners, though he supported such
a move when in Opposition in 1931. The
paper also somewhat mordantly noted
that the bill went through on April Fools’
Day.
The saga of Casey in search of a seat
has ended with the selection of the Liberal
president for the new Latrobe (Vic.) seat.
The electorate stretches from the outer
Melbourne suburbs to the Dandenongs,
and takes in large slices of the old Deakin
and Flinders seats, both of which are at
present held by Liberals.
Mr. Cahills latest brainwave for get-
ting a better response to power-rationing
regulations is to send speakers to the
schools. The idea is that the emissaries
will impress the children and the
youngsters will pqss on the lesson to their
parents. From this it should be only a
short step to the Nazi-Communist tech-
nique of getting the kiddies to inform
on their parents if the latter break * the
regulations.
A former Surveyor-General has dug
out the interesting fact that some Vic-
torian trains are slower today than they
were 60 years ago. In 1889 the Baimsdale
express did the distance between Warragul
and Melbourne in two hours five minutes.
Present schedule is two hours 40 minutes.
Any shipping line can supply parallel
statistics on the turn-round of ships.


TRUE TO FORM.
"Federal Reconstruction Minister Dedmon, who has said that the 'labor' Government is 'not concerned' to make 'little capitalists' out of the workers by assising them to
own their own homes, is reported by N.S.W. Minister Sheahan to be obstructing, through his 'power of veto,' quiker soldier-settlement in N. S. Wales."


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“X.S.”: Justice Barry’s decision last
year that there was a mix-up in the Kyne-
ton (Vic.) District Hospital on June 22,
1945, and that Mrs. Morrison, of Woome-
lang, got Johanne, the daughter of Mrs.
Jenkins, of Kyneton, and that Mrs. Jen-
kins got Noella, the daughter of Mrs.
Morrison, has been reversed by the State
Full Court, and law journals the world
over will report the judgment in which
there has been enormous interest. In his
judgment. Herring, C.J., said that it
appeared that had Barry, J., not first
satisfied himself that Johanne had found
her way into a family to which she did
not belong he would not have decided
that Noella, in her turn, had got into
the wrong family circle. The status of
the two children thus came into question,
but the proceedings were not appropriate
for the determining in rem of the status
of either youngster. The Jenkinses are
now delighted, as they love their/acquisi-
tion, and the Morrisons are thrown into
complete dejection as, although they like
the baby they have, they want the one
they think biologically to be their own.
Unless further proceedings are insti-
tuted —and the Morrisons are saddled
with heavy costs —the question arises as
to what may happen when the children
reach years of discretion. Neither child
was a party to the proceedings, and
whatever the binding force of the de-
cision regarding Noella, it doesn’t bind
Johanne. This, in effect, was the weak-
ness in Judge Barry’s finding, the Full
Court holding that the parentage of one
child could not be determined without at
the same time determining the parentage
of the other. This Judge Barry did not
do, merely ordering the Jenkinses to give
custody of Noella to the Morrisons.
♦ * * *
“Bungle”: Quentin Reynolds had a
great vogue during the war. I have just
been re-reading The Curtain Rises. His
last paragraph on Russia, in June, 1943,
as he prepares to leave for the Middle
East, is worth quoting. “I said good-bye
to Russia, leaving the country with high
faith in her destiny, and with the convic-
tion that when the war is over Stalin will
be very easy for us to do business with.”
Either Quentin has turned out to be a
poor prophet or Uncle Sam must be an
ornery cuss to do business with.
* * * *
“Clooter”: I’m a bad judge if a lot of
people didn’t experience a wistful sym-
pathy when, in the New Guinea timber
case, a witness declared that a missing
bank-officer, about whom many questions
have been asked in Press and Parliament,
had spent years in the bank’s country
service and then been transferred to
Sydney. The missing man, according to
the witness, had become “unhappy living
in Sydney, because he disliked the city
intensely,” Astonishing as it may seem
to those who’ve lived in the city from
birth, pretty well every mature person
who has had to leave the country for the
city feels the same way about it. It is
one of the penalties some of us pay for
centralisation.
* * * *
“Den”: Another remedy doctors could
prescribe without falling foul of the “free-
medicine” formulary (B. 16/3/’49) is
powdered toad. It was given by Chinese
physicians for heart affections as far
back as 700 b.c. According to G. S.
Watson’s The Soil and Social Reclama-
tion it has the same properties as the
drug adrenalin. These old Chinese
doctors were surprisingly up to date in
•some ways. Four thousand nine hun-
dred years ago they knew the value of
chaulmoogra oil as a means of treating
leprosy. There were hospitals of essen-
tially the same pattern as those of today
in China as early as 1155 b.c. Hua, the
greatest of Chinese surgeons, who
flourished in the second century a.d., per-
formed major operations, using anaes-
thetics and probably antiseptics.
* * * *
“Pitt St”: I was watching the crowd
in Sydney’s Martin-place on the day
Sharkey was charged with sedition when
a tall, well-built, well-dressed man of
about 45 politely asked me what it was
all about. Taking him for an inter-State
or country visitor of the —er —better class,
I told him. Keen eyes swept the crowd,
a rather contemptuous look came upon
the strong face. “All diseased,” he said.
“Half the people are diseased! Look at
those policemen ; all diseased, every one.”
He paused and moved closer to the kerb
as a taxi went by. “As for taxi-drivers,”
“Any other loose buttons, Mr. Triglone?"
he said bitterly, “they’re worse than the
police. Disease from head to toe. Why
doesn’t the Government do something
about all this disease instead of
wasting money on people like Sharkey?”
He brooded a moment, then eyed
a taxi on the far side of the street.
“Catch me riding in their diseased cabs,”
he said darkly, nodded to me and walked
briskly away. I had to exercise strong
self-control to prevent myself from hurry-
ing to near-by Sydney Hospital for a
swab or something.
* * * •
“Uco”: I have nothing against the
noble sport of stamp-collecting. In fact,
I am a philatelist myself in a minor way
—my collection, begun over 30 years ago,
never got beyond a few hundred, and is
still stowed away somewhere in the opti-
mistic hope that it may one day bring a
fortune to my great-grandchildren. Nor
can I be accused of being a detractor of
Henry Lawson, though I do wish the
good people who have built a cult around
his name would admit that he was a
human being who wrote stories and verse
for the same reason as he drank beer—
because he liked it. At the same time
I think the P.M.G. is playing up to the
philatelists and Lawson fans a little too
much in issuing a Lawson commemora-
tive postage-stamp in June, on what
would have been Henry’s 82nd birthday.
About a centenary issue there can be no
argument, but I cannot see anything
significant about four-score-and-two.
* « * «
“Poppa”: The iniquities of Sydney
taxi-drivers are doubtless manifold, but
anyone who considers the breed cannot
be boiled any harder has not seen them
with a sick child. At the mention of a
boy with a broken leg they will wave
away well-dressed women, refuse double-
booking, go up the hill to the house, wait
patiently, drive carefully, talk softly or
even, if the child is returning with his
mother from the hospital, get out of their
seats, open the door, pick up the child,
and carry him into the house. In some
15 or 20 such experiments, using just the
one boy with a broken leg, not one of
a wide selection of Sydney taxi-drivers
has failed us.
* * ♦ *
“Toper”: Lead me to the hotel where
Debussy is served with your drink (B.
30/3 / ’49). Every publican I’ve met in
my travels round the hotels (there are not
many in Sydney I miss) makes sure that
his Hebes switch off the wireless as soon
as a race finishes and don’t switch the set
on again till it is time for the next.
There is a heavy penalty for allowing
music to be broadcast in hotels —it is
an infringement of the Liquor Law
and Bung takes good care he isn’t caught.
* * * ♦
“Bo”: The two girls were walking
through the foyer of Sydney Town Hall.
Both had good figures, were well-dressed
and carried themselves well; yet about
one there was some indefinable, puzzling
air of utter awkwardness. Then the
reason dawned on me: the awkward-
looking one carried nothing in her hand,
whereas the other carried a small dress-
handbag. Since then I have observed
other women in city streets without any-
thing in their hands, and every one of
them has had the same air of unnatural-
ness. No doubt the handbagless woman
feels much the same as does the humble
male citizen who happens to go home
without his familiar rolled-up afternoon
paper to swing in his hand: that he is
almost half-nude. After all, the ancient
problem of what to do with one’s hands
is as acute with adults as it is with
children.
*** a #
“Fifty One”: The small boy who
splodged through the icy water and still
had warm feet (B. 16/3/’49) has prob-
ably been listening to Uncle Jim. A
tough 77, he scorns anything as cissy as
fires or hot-water bottles. His method is
to take off his boots, tuck up his pants,
and go for a brisk paddle in the lake each
evening. He has never been known to
complain of cold feet. His only com-
plaint is that he cannot find anyone else
hardy enough to try it.
* • * ♦
“Carlyle”: Melbourne’s pigeon-con-
scious aldermen (B. 16/3/’49) should be
told about the new-type scarecrow in use
at Huddersfield, Yorkshire. It consists
of several lengths of rope (about 2ft.
long) which, when impregnated with ex-
plosive, burn slowly for about eight
hours. They in turn ignite 12 noisy flash-
bombs attached to the rope at varying
intervals. These are timed to go off every
20 minutes, and it would take a hardy
bird to get used to the noise and the
startling effect of metal wings which are
set flapping as each explosion occurs.
* * * »
“Zake”: The delicatessen shop was a
model of hygiene. The section housing
the strings of snags, the ham and comed-
beef, was fly-wired off right to the ceiling,
and the assistant behind this quickly
opened and shut the small wired sliding-
door let into it as he passed the ordered
smallgoods out to the customer. It would
be as hard for a wog to get in there, I
felt, as a moderate to get on to the
Miners’ Central Executive. Mentally
giving the shop full marks, I passed out
and, glancing through the window, ob-
served the industrious proprietor standing
at a table inside the wired-in enclosure.
He was spreading from a wide-mouthed
dish on to the slices of bread the butter
which had been brought to a more mal-
leable condition with milk. I marvelled
at the dexterity and speed with which ne
was getting each slice prepared for the
filling, especially as he was dispensing
with any implement. Evidently he had
made the discovery that the use of three
fingers was about half-a-second faster per
slice than when he was handicapped with
a knife.
« * • •
“Billy T.”: “B. A. Ker’s” yarn about
the stubborn carriage-door (B. 23/3/’49)
could not have happened in Japan. There
the brakeman stops his cabin exactly be-
side a prominent notice, thereby bringing
every carriage door opposite parallel lines
running across the platform and between
which the waiting passengers are huddled,
looking as though placed and held there
by Border Collies. No door is touched,
the guard presses a button and they all
slide back simultaneously—and if you
have any illusions about the famed Jap
courtesy, here’s where you discard them.
Sombre citizens who a few minutes be-
fore were bobbing like courting pigeons
as they recognised acquaintances now
regard women and children as steps over
which to reach the best seats, I saw a
tiny girl being assisted, by boot, down
between the train and the platform; it
was my long cobber who sat a couple of
bespectacled heroes back with one hand
while he yanked the youngster up with
the other. They line up for trams the
same way, though the percentage of
crushed corns attained in these over-
crowded vehicles is probably no higher
than the present average in Sydney.
* * * *
“Ceg”: So even the Big Top is now
used in Russia as a vehicle for Soviet
propaganda (B. 16/3/’49)! Alexander
Woollcott, writing from Moscow m
1932, said that although theatres and
music-halls were made to serve the Com-
munist ideal, the circus in Leningrad was
the same as circuses the whole world
over. He reported that in all respects—
clowns, acrobats, animal turns, etc., the
performance could have been described
merely by cribbing Huckleberry Finn s
account of the one he attended down the
Mississippi. Woollcott told the Comrade-
in-charge that there were really, in his
opinion, three great Internationals the
Comintern, the Church of Rome and the
circus. This tickled the Comrade, and
he started to laugh at the circus being
included in such august company. How-
ever, others were listening, and the laugh
came to a sudden end, the Comrade pos-
sibly feeling it might be dangerous to
associate himself with such levity.
« * * *
“J.K.”: Phar Lap’s stuffed hide (B.
23/3/,’49)? Carbine’s bare skeleton
stands near the Red Terror in Melbourne
Museum. While paying homage to the
best drawing-card in the museum, I
overheard two dear souls their
admiration of the chestnut freak. Ain t
he lovely! But I suppose he’ll soon get
moth-eaten like the other one.” An en-
terprising Boniface whose hotel faces the
National Gallery and Museum adver-
tises his address as “Opposite Phar Lap s
stable.”
♦ * * * ,
“Hyanlo”: As the proud possessor ot
a ’4B vintage car I am very careful to
follow all the maker’s instructions. So
when they specified S.A.E. 20 oil I made
sure to ask garageman Joe just for that.
Last week I found him doling out® ll
from a container clearly labelled S.A-E.
30. He wasn’t in the least perturbed.
“Look here, mate,” he said. “You re
married and I’ll bet your wife has a set
of canisters. And doesn’t she keep the
tea in one marked ‘Rice’ and the sugar
in one marked ‘Flour’? She knows
where everything is. And it’s the same
here. I know where all the oil is. A
quick thinker, Joe.
# * * *
“Obsar”: It was during a quiet time on
the Somme in the summer of 1917 that
one of our gunners set out to collect a
hare for the mess, and chose just the time
that a high-ranking brass-hat picked tor
a visit, unannounced, to the battery. As
the general came over a bank a bullet
passed much too close for his comfort.
At the subsequent court-martial the
gunner swore he had never fired his n:n®
at a hare or at anything else and didnt
even know what a hare was, etc. in
the absence of witnesses on either side a
private’s word was as good as a general ,
and for a moment Army justice was
stumped—but not for long. Verdict.
Twenty-eight days’ field punishment tor
failing to salute. # #
“Paddy Whack”: We cleared our two
boys and their two little visitors out to
lunch on the lawn, and next day the
mother of one of the visitors arrived
asking interestedly what new and ravish-
ing sandwich we had given her little bo>,
who was very hard to please. Inquiries
elicited that our lads had improved upon
their plain bread-and-butter by makm-
sandwiches of it with flame-tree leaves.
We have had to discourage the experi-
ments of the infant gourmets; the tree
next to the flame-tree is an oleander.
THE ATLANTIC PACT.
“A torrent of vituperation and abuse from Russia,
directed at the U.S.A. and Britain, has followed the
establishment of the North Atlantic Pact.”
They never sought the U.N.O’s.
Passivities to stop;
To them, like us, one may suppose
’Twas just a talking-shop.
But to the scheming Muscovite
One readily perceives
This North Atlantic Pact is quite
Another pair of sleeves.
The former crowd, for all he cared,
Might spruik till it was hoarse
On measures which it never dared
Attempting to enforce.
And when discussions grew too strong
To suit his Uncle Joe,
The Kremlin veto came along
To muzzle U.N.O.
But here’s a league of far-flung lands
Allied from shore to shore,
With all agreed on where it stands,
Alert to what it’s for.
A threat to peace, the Commos set
Their wits at work to make it.
Say, more convincingly, a threat
To all who’d dare to break it.
With U.N.O. long wanting found,
In all its stately halls,
For aught beyond a stamping-ground
Employed for wordy brawls,
Some better way of doing biz
For Europe, torn and racked,
Waits to be tried. And here it is,
A union geared to act,
Instead of merely talking, viz..
This North Atlantic Pact.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Gravelsnatcher”l admire the way in
which young “Jimmy O’Keefe” rushes to
the defence of his classmates and teachers
(B. 2/3/’49), although his words and
sentiments lack the wisdom and clarity
that will come, no doubt, with the advent
of long trousers. Wonderful morale-
builders, those first long ’uns, and I’ll
warrant that when Jimmy steps into them
he’ll look back with a smile to the days
when everyone over 20 was elderly. But
he has something when he says “adven-
ture, not escape, is the basic urge in
modern waggery.” Escape was definitely
our main urge—escape from the local
John, the truant-inspector, the heathen
Chinee and retribution. We had no ad-
ventures beyond a hazardous raid on a
well-guarded orchard, a hair-raising climb
down a cliff-face or a visit to a “haunted”
house. The modern kid, on his day off,
flies half-way round the world, assists
the police in the detection of gangsters,
emerges unscathed from a gunfight and
makes a parachute-jump from a burning
plane. And he does it all without budg-
ing from his theatre-seat.
* * * *
“Bundy Bill”: Add to “Eureka’s” list
of monuments to Australian airmen (B.
23/3/’49) the home-town memorials to
Bundaberg’s most famous man. Hinkler
Park, where he realised his ambition of
flying home to his mother by touching-
down in a small enclosed area at North
Bundaberg at the end of the first solo
flight to Australia ; Hinkler-avenue, along
"It fitted me perfectly before I started looking for
the flat , dear."
which his boyhood friends wheeled his
pint-sized plane in triumph; the black
marble plinth, sent from Italy by Italian
admirers, which nestles in the shade of
Bundaberg’s Christ Church to mark his
untimely end in the Apennines; and the
slender column atop Captain Cook’s
Double Sloping Hummock, Bundaberg’s
only hill, which overlooks the sandhills
at the coast where the airman first spread
his wings in a home-made glider.
„ * „* , * .
Kammbla : Mr. McGirrs assertion
that his political opponents were “guilty
of every crime in the calendar” recalled
to my mind a pardon granted in 1408
to one Robert Manfeld, Provost of
Beverley, Yorks. His pardon was a
general one covering “treasons, insur-
rections, rebellions, felonies, breaches of
prisons and jails, escapes of felons, revolts
of felons, rapes, extortions, conspiracies,
confederacies, maintenance, and other
trespasses committed by him.” That list
may not include every crime in the
calendar, but it is pretty comprehensive,
* * * *
“Jasby”: Influenced no doubt by the
report that one of the victims of the
Coolangatta air crash had been insured
for £lO,OOO, a Sydney businessman is
said to have taken out a £20,000 cover
on a flight to Adelaide. Obviously he
had not read Mark Twain on the subject
of travel-insurance. Mark claimed that
once when he was buying a rail-ticket the
clerk told him that for another five cents
he could insure himself against death in
a railway accident; that small premium
would cover him for something like
10,000 dollars. Mark wanted to know
whether he would be covered against
dying in his bed. The clerk shook his
head. No, only against railway accident.
Mark then quoted figures to show that
only a few-score people were killed in
train smashes in the course of a year in
U.S.A., whereas close on a million died
in their beds. “Bed’s the dangerous
place,” he said. “That’s the place I’m
afraid of. You insure me against dying
in my bed. I’ll carry my own risk on
the train.”
» * * *
“Mick Richards”: Adelaide mothers
have been agitating for better tram ser-
vices for pusher-age infants. It takes a
modern Juno, equipped with octopus
limbs, to manipulate the baby, spare-
parts bag, shopping purchases and get
the pusher on the trams. The cam-
paigners have quoted various transport
designs with pusher hooks on the back,
but Adelaide Tramways refuse to co-
operate. One argument raised against has
been the safety angle. Almost while the
discussion was in progress the driver of
a country bus picked up a bulging pusher
from opposite his Town Hall terminus
and hooked it securely to the back of the
bus. He was surprised to find pusher
unclaimed after his last passenger had
alighted, but back over the country roads
he went to the Town Hall. A mother,
minus pusher and baby, waited franti-
cally for his return. The undisturbed
passenger slept soundly in his pusher
during the 10 miles round trip.
* * ♦ *
“Lord Luvus”: Old habitues of Monte
Carlo will hear with horror that the
dignified joint, which looks like a baron’s
castle, is to be jazzed up in keeping with
modern progress, two of its chief officials
having taken a post-graduate course in
New World gambling in El Paso, Reno,
Boise, Los Angeles and Sun Valley, and
have brought back recordings to help
croupiers emulate the anguished howls of
shooters who roll fatal combinations and
to croon “be good
to me, dicey,” to the
treacherous bones.
My only acquaint-
ance with the Casino
was in 1920, after
World War I. I had
won 80 francs at one
of the tables when
an officer touched
me on the shoulder
and asked me to ac-
company him to an
apartment which
could have figured in
a Le Queux novel.
A tribunal looking
as important as the
Bench of the Aus-
tralian High Court
had my passport,
and asked me if I
were the manager or
only the employee
of the company men-
tioned on it. A
moment of quick
thinking prompted
me to answer
“General manager.”
I had done the right
thing; it turned out
there was a war-
time regulation for-
bidding anyone
under the rank of manager, admiral or
general to gamble away his pittance in
Monte Carlo. There were apologies all
round, and I was escorted back to the
tables where, seated between a millionaire
and a grand duke, I lost all my winnings
and another francs 80.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Indifference to invaluable
public possessions—there are tens of
thousands of people in Sydney who have
never been inside the Botanical Gardens,
and greater multitudes would not even
know where to find the Art Gallery and
the Australian Mu»eum, let alone that
most interesting place the Technological
Museum —is not alone an Australian
characteristic. Not a single ex-Londoner
or ex-visitor to London of my acquaint-
ance has been able to help me revive my
memories of the Naval Museum at
Greenwich, an institution which, in my
boyhood, had a fascination for me.
Here is enshrined in models, plans and
diagrams from the earliest dugouts to
modern vessels, the full story of man-
kind’s conquest of the sea ; the full story
“Absolutely made for the job, she is.”
of the British Navy is there, too, for in
the Naval Art Gallery are paintings of
the great sea fights and the great admirals,
with Nelson, of course, dominating every-
thing—his swords are there and the
uniform in which he received his death-
wound, The greatest attraction for me
was a huge model of the Battle of Trafal-
gar. Recently I mentioned it to a retired
British naval officer holidaying in Syd-
ney ; he had “never heard of it.”
* * He *
“Rivirita”: Farmers in the Temora and
West Wyalong areas of N.S.W. should
be interested in “Bo’s” story (B. 16/3/’49)
on those spare sections of track lying
here and there between the six sets of
lines from Sydney to Strathfield. In-
spectors have been looking at the rails
between Kikoira and Naradhan, and one
of them has expressed the opinion that
they are good enough to be pulled up
for use at coal-sidings elsewhere. Farmers
at Naradhan have sent a telegram pro-
testing against the threat that their rail-
tracks should be torn up, and similar
protests are being made at other Riverina
centres. My guess is that the Strathfield
tracks will stay where they are, but if it
comes to serving the mines or the farms
—oh, don’t be silly!
* * * *
“Dusty Mile”: It is not so much the
English language as the way it is spoken
that causes aliens to age quickly. In a
railway compartment two Balts were
slowly, but proudly, trying out their new
language to a morose individual who was
addressing himself to a wine-bottle. Pre-
sently he finished his bottle, tossed it
out the window and wandered along the
train. One of his mates from another
compartment looked in and asked,
“Where’s the joker wot was ’ere gone?”
Growing impatient at their slowness in
replying, he explained. “The coot that
was sinkin’ plonk with the flies.” This
reduced the bewildered Balts to their
native tongue, whereupon the disgusted
inquirer was heard making his way along
the train voicing disapproval of “cows
wot can’t talk English.”
* * * ♦
“Minto”: Hard-bitten soldiers of the
1914 war thought Army Education Ser-
vices an ornament in the recent go-in,
but the ignorance of some rookies must
have made recruiting-officers wonder if
the Huns and Nips were the chief enemy
after all. The lad next to me had never
ventured beyond Parramatta, and the
prospect of a trip to Darwin made him
feel like a comic-strip hero jetting him-
self to Mars. Stories of the Darwin
heat particularly worried him. He tugged
at my sleeve as we moved along the
form. “That there sun up in Darwin —
is it the same as the one that shines down
here?”
♦ # * *
“Sing 9”: A N.S.W. man has dis-
covered to his cost —about £2 in fines and
costs—what it means when two States
have different traffic rules. He had
crossed the Murray into Wodonga and
there made a right-hand turn according
to the N.S.W. law, which requires the
driver to keep as close to the centre of
the road as possible, signal with his hand
and turn as soon as he can, This frees
the driver from bothering about follow-
ing through traffic, which passes on his
left, makes it necessary for him to watch
only oncoming traffic ahead of him, pre-
vents the turning vehicle from blocking
traffic and in every way is better
than the old-fashioned style of pulling
well over to the left and there waiting
until the intersection is clear before mak-
ing the turn. But Victoria clings to the
old form; the N.S.W. man met a Vic-
torian driver following his State’s rule,
thus the collision and the fine. It was
doubtless poor consolation to the victim
to be told that ignorance of the (Vic-
torian) law was no excuse. Motoring
organisations should do something about
making the rule uniform. The next col-
lision could have tragic results.
“Wusslean”: There is a notice in our
Victorian trains that invariably infuri-
ates me. “If you must travel,” it reads,
“travel between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. and
avoid congestion.” “If you must travel”
indeed! Surely it is the right of any
citizen out of jail and in his right mind,
who can produce his fare, and is decently
clad, to travel anywhere he likes, at any
times public transport is available? Our
railway commissars—pardon, commis-
sioners—apparently think otherwise;
travelling (except at such times as it suits
the railway authorities) is something to be
frowned upon or openly discouraged.
Anyone mentally and physically capable
of buying a rail way-ticket knows he has
more chance of getting a seat if he travels
between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. Unfortun-
ately my chief, like most employers,
would hit the roof if I quoted the railway
commissioners’ dictum as an excuse for
reducing my working hours.
♦ * * ♦
“Kilkennicat”; The poor fellow who
could not “get that ruddy two-bob
back” from his wife (B. 17/11/ ’4B),
should try again. Roaring Paddy had
struck hard times and was running a
doubles book in a western N.S.W. town
where the drinking hours are only regu-
lated by the thirsts. He came into the bar
one night and said to the publican:
“Bonny Leslie, you struck the double.
Here’s your tenner.” Bonny Leslie took
the 10-pounds’ worth of silver, counted it
and then asked: “Where is the stake?”
Roaring Paddy admitted afterwards that it
was the first and only time in his life
that he was really speechless, but he
dumbly passed over the other two-bob.
While we were all wondering what he
would say when he recovered his speech,
Bonny Leslie beat him to it by saying:
“Right. Now, that’s five pounds one
each,” and passed back a half-share to
Paddy.
* * * •
“Mullum”: A friend whose family
caught the measles at the wrong time
offered Mrs. Mullum the beach flat they
had reserved some months before. Mrs.
M. accepted and took the kids away for
a week, leaving me to “batch.” This
suited me ; there were several odd jobs
around the house I could do without
interruption from the nippers. Then I
discovered how many friends I had.
Charlie and his wife invited me to dinner
on Monday night: “Just an ordinary
meal, old man, but it will be better than
grilling a chop for yourself.” Tuesday
night it was Fred and his wife who voiced
similar sentiments. On Wednesday morn-
ing the two remaining bachelors in the
office announced they would be around
that evening with a few bottles “for a
quiet game of solo.” Thursday night was
bed at quarter to eight; it must be six
years since I’d had three nights in suc-
cession after midnight. Anyway, there
was still Friday night left for the more
urgent jobs. On Friday morning Jim
rang up. He and his wife had promised
to go o«t that night, but his sister who
was coming to mind the children had the
’flu. I was by myself and he thought I
wouldn’t mind helping out. Despairingly
I phoned Mrs. Mullum on Saturday
morning and told her I couldn’t join her
until Sunday. However, the - bloke
opposite was sure I must be lonely, and
insisted on showing me his garden, leaf
by leaf. He invited me to stay for lunch,
and then, when his car wouldn’t start, I
was morally bound to help him look for
the trouble. It seems that I’ll have to
take the risk of the kids kicking over the
paint-pot after all.
CLOTHES.
“The ‘Tailor and Cutter’ awards Foreign Secre-
tary Bevin the invidious distinction of being Britain’s
worst-dressed public man.”
“Fine clothes are good”—almost verbatim I
Am quoting Doctor Johnson, recollect —
“But only in so far as they supply
The want of other means to gain respect.”
A sound and pithy saying, one submits,
Worth pondering by modern exquisites.
Still, because Boswell’s idol didn’t care
What sort of garments clad his massive frame,
It doesn’t follow, far as I’m aware,
That everybody else should think the same.
If all subscribed to the Johnsonian view
What in the devil’s name would tailors do?
A harmless vanity, but nothing more,
This urge for what sartorial art could yield
For Solomon in all his glory, or
Nature bestows o.n lilies of the field.
A woman’s praised for looking spick-and-span,
Why then illogically blame a man?
Yet one may hope the day is distant far
When persons in authority must share
Censure or praise, along with what they are,
With praise or censure about what they wear,
Whether their tiles look sloppy or they’ve ceased
To have their pants immaculately creased.
Don’t bother, Bevin! Tisn’t clothes that shape
The man, though men may shape the clothes,
we know.
What matter though they never run the tape
Around your portly waist at Savile Row,
Where less distinguished carcasses they drape
With the glad rags accounted comme il faut.
You’re where you’ve risen to for what you
stack
Inside your bean, not merely on your back.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


Ĵ
ECONOMICAL SERVICE in the administration of estates and trusts
The Trustees Executors and Agency Co. Ltd., Australia’s Oldest Trustee Company.
SERVICE IS PROMPT AND EFFICIENT. CHARGES ARE FIXED AND MODERATE.
No private trustee can offer you such
continuous service or security in the
performance of trusts.
Wide experience means sound advice,
safeguarding the interests of your
dependents, and preserving your assets.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman) ; Sir Lennon
Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; Sir Alan Newton,
M. 8., Melb., F.R.C.S., Eng.; G. D. Young.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
1 BLIGH STREET. SYDNEY.
401 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £904,692.
NEW SOUTH WAIVES DIRECTORS:
Dr. H. J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., E.R.A.C.P. (Chairman)!
John Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8., K.8.E.,
C.M.G., D. 5.0.; David Wilson, M.A., L.L.8., K.C.
’ N.S.W. Manager: C. B. R. Cowdery.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
THE WILD CAT COLUMN
Woolworths, Ltd.
, Dividends
Ist 2nd
Pref. Pref. Ord. Re-
Jan., Profit. 10 p.c. 7 p.c. 124 p.c. serves.*
* & £* & SL £,
1942 .. 253,790 7500 14,000 139,250 565,905
11 p.c.
1943 .. 148,303 7500 14,000 122,540 " 570,168
12 p.c.
1944 . . 176,574 7500 14,000 133,680 591,562
Added capital profits reserve, £1725.. 593,287
1945 .. 172,073 7500 14,000 133,680 610,180
Added share premium res., £7500.. 617,680
1946 .. 188,830 7500 14,000 183,855 651,155
Insurance reserve appears, £35,000.. 686,155
16 p.c.f
1947 .. 270,232 7500 14,000 178,640 756,247
Staff bonus, £22,330 .. .. .. 733,017
15 p.c.
1948 .. 305,923 7500 14,000 209,343 808,997
Share premiums, £307,037 .. ..1,116,034
1949 .. 339,310 7500 14,000 223,300 1,210,544
* Excluding depreciation reserve (now £412,532)
and deferred maintenance reserve (now £7500).
t Includes 2 p.c. victory bonus.
Popularity of the scrip in this big
chain organisation rests partly upon high
earning capacity, in good times and bad,
and partly upon prospects of further
new-share issues to finance continued ex-
pansion of the undertaking—parent and
seven subsidiaries, which together operate
over 100 stores scattered throughout the
Commonwealth and New Zealand. At
the annual meeting on April 12 share-
holders will be asked to liftf nominal,
capital from £2,000,000 to £5,000,000 by
creation of 12,000,00 new ss. ord. shares.
The board doesn’t propose to offer any
of these new shares “at the present time,”
issued capital (£1,810,186) being sufficient
for the co.’s immediate requirements.
Evolution of the variety chain store
has been one of the most profitable de-
velopments of modern merchandising
methods. Indicative of this co.’s out-
standing success is the growth of its paid
capital, which shot up £63,264 in 1928
when the public became interested —to
£1,388,999 in 1939. Of the increase
£944,712 was bonus scrip, and the balance
(£381,023) brought with it £199,977 of
share premiums. With war out of the
way, more goods have trickled into the
market and turnover, further stimulated
by rising prices and the addition of more
links to the chain, has stepped along in
fine style. To help finance the growth
1,116,499 new ords. were issued at par,
one for four, early in 1947, and another
558,250 were put out at a premium of
1 Is. (220 p.c.) each, one for 10, at end
Nov., 1948. The premium, fixed by
Capital Issues Control, and added to re-
serves, makes a 15 p.c. div. worth only
4.6 p.c. on the last £139,562 of share
capital. Paid capital has now climbed
to £1,810,186 in 75,000 10 p.c. and 200,000
7 p.c. cum. prefs., all of £1 each, and
6,140,745 ss. ords.
And shareholders’ experience in the
matter of divs. has been a happy one,
too. Distributions averaged 26.1 p.c. for
four slump years to 1934, 16.6 p.c. eight
years to 1941, 11.9 p.c. for five years of
war-time scarcities to 1946, and 15.3 p.c.
for three years to close of last accounts.
Employment was quickly found for the
new capital and share-premium money,’
which, together with surplus earnings,
etc., went into debtors’ balances (up
£373,087 —mostly advances to sub-
sidiaries—stocks (up £294,173), sharehold-
ings (up £117,535) and plant (up £16,931):
1940. 1947. 1948. 1949.
£ £ £ £
Paid capital 1,388,999 1,391,499 1,670,624 1,810,186
Liabilities .. 316,798 394,979 390,175 439,194
Freeholds . . 36,717 41,271 41,831 44,506
Leaseholds .. 82,506 93,752 86,392 78,355
Plant . . 282,531 353,685 374,725 391,656
Shares other
cos., etc. 1,226,263 1,390,913 1,429,127 1,546,662
Stocks ~ 465,024 786,796 1,077,065 1,371,238
Debtors ..' 344,625* 252,656* 270,138* 643,225*
Cash . . 6,479 124,477 173,483 16,583
* Includes advances to subsidiaries—£3l7,32l, 1940:
£229,029, 1947 ; £206,172, 1948; £562,539, 1949.
Liabilities (up £49,019 net) include
subsidiaries’ current accounts (£205,046,
down £73,805). The improvement in the
more-or-less liquid surplus (£3,138,514)
was £578,876, of which £446,599 was on
account of the last new share issue.
It is plain that expanding turnover
(amount not stated) more than took care
of advancing costs. The spring in the
year’s net earnings was £33,387, after
allowing for depreciation (£44,220, up
£15,595) and paying the previous year’s
tax bills (£63,771). The £339,310 of
profit claimed is therefore subject to taxa-
tion, for which specific provision has not
been made. After payment of pref. divs.
enough remained to show 22.4 p.c. on
average ord. capital, or 20.7 p.c. on ord.
capital as it now stands, which gives
the 15 p.c. div, as comfortable an appear-
ance as anything of the kind can have
under existing conditions.
Anticipating its benefits, the market
prices the ords. at 225. 9d., giving an
immediate return of 3.3 p.c. on the basis
of last term’s distribution. The first and
second prefs. at 465. 3d. and 325. 9d.
respectively, each yield 4.3 p.c. Excluding
the depreciation reserve, etc., net tangible
cover is £4O ss. 6d. firsts, £l4 14s. 7d.
seconds and Bs. lid. ords.
Holeproof, Ltd. (Vic.)
( Dividends , Nominal
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 8 p.c. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.*
£>£/£»' £>£,£,
’4l. . 20,072 2214 3000 8 p.c. = 10,262 4,696 50,992
To contingencies, £5933.. .. ..45,059
’42. . 18,469 2214 3000 8 p.c. = 10,262 2,993 48,052
’43.. 18,092 2214 3000 8 p.c. = 10,262 1
To contingencies, £2000.. .. J ” ■ 40,0t>8
Prom contingency reserve, £12,500 .. 61,168
’44.. 17,551 2214 8000 8 p.c. = 10,262 )
To contingencies, £2OOO .. ) ° 01 » Z4£i
’45.. 17,581 2214 3000 8 p.c. = 10,262 \
To contingencies, £2OOO .. J ■loo bi,d4B
Share premiums, £10,119 .. ..71,467
’46.. 20,639 2214 3000 8 p.c. = 12,011 3,414 74,881
To contingencies, £7500 . . 1
Prom tax provision, £18,750 . . I
Female-wage subsidy, £7240 .. [
r- Pref. „ Ord. f 106.275
8 p.c. 6 p.c. 5 p.c. 8 p.c.
’47.. 33,701 2214 3000 1823 13,760 J
Share premiums, £21,500 . . .. 127,775
Wage subsidy, £1287 .. .. .. 129,062
Reserves disappear, £5OOO .. .. 124,062
10i p.c.
’48.. 53,254 2214 3000 7084 19,189 145,829
* Subject to goodwill and trade-marks ( £15,934
at Dec. 81, 1948).
Resilience of the figures of this manu-
facturer of women’s hosiery and men’s
hose, etc. —co. turns out about one-fifth
of Australia’s requirements in these lines
—reflects - a vigorous programme of ex-
pansion and a hungry market, largely
cut off from overseas competition, A
policy of decentralisation and installa-
tion of a lot of new and modern equip-
ment, much of it for production of now-
fashionable nylon stockings, has quick-
ened and widened production and im-
proved both quality and style.
Including the main factory at Bruns-
wick (Vic.), the co. now has a dozen
manufacturing units at work —10 in Vic.
and two in N. S. Wales—all housed in
premises owned or being purchased by
the co. This has meant much so far as
labor and transport difficulties are con-
cerned, while installation of emergency
power-units has lessened production
hold-ups, owing to the perennial coal
question and periodic failure of publicly-
owned electric-power supply. Other fac-
tors retarding the rate of expansion have
been slow and uncertain deliveries of raw
silk and nylon yarns from overseas and
the 40-hour week.
Those on the register have shared in
the expansion by being asked to assist
during each of the last three years and
by a lift in the rate of distribution last
term. In July, 1946, 43,730 new £1
ords., which brought with them £10,119
of share premiums, were put out; in
Sept., 1947, 125,000 new £1 5 p.c. “C”
prefs. were offered at par and ‘over-
subscribed ; and in Sept., 1948, a further
50.000 “C” prefs. and 86,000 ords. were
taken at par and at a premium of 10s.
6d. each respectively. All that lifted
paid capital at end 1948 to £457,484 in
27,685 “A” 8 p.c., 50,000 “B” 6 p.c. and
175.000 “C” 5 p.c. cum. prefs. and 258,000
ords. There was then £53,201 still to
come on the last lot of ords.
Last year’s new share and premium
money, an extra £275,362 from the bank
and others, and more besides, went into
freehold, plant, etc. (up £206,344), stocks
(up £241,096) and debtors’ balances (up
£79,276):
1945. 1946. 1947. 1948.
Ord. capital £128,270 £172,000 £172,000 £204,799
Pref. capital 77,685 77,685 202,685 252,685
Liabilities .. 132,514 145,610 313,608 588,970
Tax and con-
tingencies
provision .. 44,611 60,437 71,440 102,067
Freeholds, plant,
etc. .. 114,039 147,212 213,572 419,916
Stocks . . 250,350 292,089 421,349 662,445
Debtors . . 52,946 67,582 98,303 177,579
Cash, etc. . . 6,397 17,384 128,160 53,851
Goodwill, etc. 15,934 15,934 15,934 15,934
Including uncalled capital, but exclud-
ing the tax and contingencies reserve,
there was 17s. lid. of outside money at
risk in the business for every pound be-
longing to shareholders when the books
closed. Stocks, however, are unusually
heavy, for reasons already stated. The
year’s slip in the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£202,838) was £59,926, owing to
the outlay on fixed assets.
Last term men’s ties and women’s
scarves were added to the list of manu-
factures, and arrangements were made
with Jean Patou, the Parision fashion-
house, for early advice on styling and
color trends. Hosiery sales were a record,
and although costs increased all along
the line, net earnings were £19,553
stronger at £53,254. That was after
allowing for depreciation (£40,000, up
£10,000), taxation (£49,337, up £12,187)
and contributions to the staff fund
(£7600, up £2000). The £53,254 covered
pref. requirements and 22.4 p.c. on aver-
age ord. capital as against 15.5, 10.3,
9.6, 9.6, 10 and 10.3 p.c. back to 1942.
A 2\ p.c. bonus was sent out with the
8 p.c. div., making 10i p.c. for the year.
The immediate outlook favors main-
tenance of a'high level of turnover. But
costs are still rising, and increased selling
prices are inevitable following withdrawal
of subsidies on cotton, rayon and worsted
yarns. Moreover, there are indications
of growing consumer resistance to rising
prices, and plant capacity in the trade
promises to exceed local demand,
while competition from overseas manu-
facturers has yet to make itself
really felt. However, the co. is techni-
cally well-equipped for the struggle, and
that means much so far as costs and
selling prices are concerned.
The market expresses its opinion of the
risks by pricing the ords, at 325. 6d.,
giving a return of 6.4 p.c, so long as the
10| p.c. distribution continues, or 4.9 p.c.
should the rate drop to 8 p.c. again. At
375. and 28s. 6d. respectively, the “A” and
“B” prefs. each return 4.3 p.c. The
“G’s” at 21s. yield 4.7 p.c. Including
uncalled capital, net tangible cover is
£23 2s. lid. “A,” £l2 ss. 2d. “B” and
£3 4s. 4d. “C” shares and 30s. Id. ords.
Fresh Food and Ice (Syd.)
Added to Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.t
£ £,£,£,
1940.. 6,410 Nil 6,410 60,053
Added goodwill, £1291 .. .. ■ 58,762
Loss.
1941.. 12,474 Nil 46,288
Added goodwill, £1192 .. .. 45,096
Profit.
1942.. 4,820 Nil 4,820 49,916
Goodwill reduced, £214 .. .. • 50,130
1943.. 12,035 4 p.c. =11,356 679 50,809
June,
1944.. 8,051* 2i „ „ 7,098 953 51,762
Added goodwill, £6OO .. .. 51,162
1945.. 14,873 5 p.c. =14,195 678 61,840
Added goodwill, £2307 .. .. 49,533
1946.. 15,644 5* p.c. =15,615 29 49,562
Added goodwill, £20,150 .. .. 29,412
1947.. 15,756 5i p.c. =15,615 141 29,553
1948.. 15,867 5i „ ~15,615 252 29,805
* Six months. f After deducting goodwill
(now £44,310).
If Sydneysiders feel that their cow has
jumped over the moon lately, it
hasn’t been for the benefit of this
co., whose price-margins have risen little
since pre-war, despite a much heavier
burden of operating costs. Only the big
rise in turnover —Sydney is consuming
about 50,000,000 gallons of milk yearly,
or twice the 1939 figure—allows Fresh
Food to show a modest profit. And an
important question which will be answered
during the next few months is to what
extent the recent lifts in the retail price
will put a brake on turnover.
The F. • F. and I. is one of
the two Milk Board agents which re-
ceive milk from country dairymen, trans-
port and pasteurise it and assist in its
metropolitan distribution. The co.
handles about one-third of the city’s milk,
retailing a part itself and passing the rest
on to private vendors. As the following
comparison of margins shows, it is the
milk-producers who have received all but
twopence of the Is. 4d. rise in retail prices
since 1939:
Milk Margins: Sydney.
1939 Present
Figures Figures
' Per Gal. Per Gal
Paid by board to dairymen.. Is. Od. 2s. 2d.
Paid by agents to board .. Is. 1.6 d. 2s. 44d
Paid by vendors to agents .. Is. s|d. 2s. Bid
Maximum retail price (bulk).. 2s. 4d. 3s. Bd.
The agency margin has risen from 3.65 d.
to 3.75 d. and the maximum vending
margin from 10|d. to llfd. Higher wages
and the shorter working week were offset
in part by the introduction of blocked
runs.
Besides milk. Fresh Food trades in ice-
cream, ice, bread and other foodstuffs.
Last year’s overall turnover was a record,
passing the £2,000,000 mark —although
ice sales fell off for the first time since the
war (a reminder of the growing use of
refrigerators), and it was found also that
people are eating less bread since it is
being baked only five days a week.
A £24,832 rise in the co.’s gross trading
profit was scarcely half enough to meet
last year’s jump in the wages-bill, but by
pruning other expenses the board was able
to quote a slightly improved net profit;
1946. 1947. 1948.
Gross profits .. ~ £541,252 £577,419 £602,251
Less —
Wages . . .. 25 2,470 288,935 338,893
General exes. .. 210,338 217,562 202,914
Rent, taxes, etc. .. 62,800 55,166 44,577
Net profit . . .. 15,644 15,756 15,867
Extensions to the head-office in Harbor-
street and to the Chatswood and Croydon
Park depots involved a net addition of
£35,234 to fixed assets last term (after
unstated depreciation). The outlay was
financed by a net rise of £38,909 in
liabilities:
1939. 1946. 1947. 1948.
Paid capital. . £283,907 £283,907 £283,907 £283,907
Debentures .. 100,000 150,000 150,000 150,000
Overdraft . . 92,060 22,306 75,256
Owing to Milk
Board .. 24,900 26,750 34,073 56,294
Other creditors 46,854 104,704 112,266 76,004
Freeholds . - 243,885 245,144 245,294 271,788
Plant . . 173,423 143,683 160,265 169,005
Vehicles, horses 38,589 20,081 23,665 22,985
Stocks . . 28,744 39,612 49,028 65,614
Shares in sub-
sidiary . . 13,156 13,156 13,156 13,156
Advances to
subsidiary.. 33,995 43,163 36,915 45,762
Other debtors 73,278 66,189 96,137 91,030
Cash .. .. 510 52,412 16,162 442
The subsidiary co. is Byrne’s Exhibition
Hairy Pty., which took over Hugh Byrne’s
old Rosebery business in 1937-38 for an
undisclosed price, and moved to Picton.
Further extensions to the city depot
being desirable. Fresh Food’s nominal
capital was raised from £400,000 to
£750,000 about 18 months ago. So far
no date has been set for the approach to
shareholders, possibly because the
present £1 shares are bobbing around i
figure slightly below par, though their
price has risen Is. over the past 12 months.
Yield at par is 5.5 p.c. on the last div.
basis, and the shares have net tangible
asset backing of 225. on book-values.
That excludes any goodwill for the co.’s
retail registrations, which have a sub-
stantial market-value at present.
Drop in Lead Prices
The drop in New York famine price
of lead was not altogether unexpected.
It was due to consumer resistance fol-
lowing a slackening of the pace of in-
dustrial activity in U.S., which consumes
about half the world’s production of new
lead and dominates the world price for
this scarce metal. U.S. requirements of
new lead are supplied principally by large
producers in the U.S., Mexico, Canada
and Bolivia, all of which have recently
increased their output.
In 1948 the New York price stepped
up from 15 cents a pound in January to
17.5 cents April, 19.5 cents July and 21.5
cents December. The figure remained
steady until March, 1949, when cuts of
2 cents, 1| cents and 1 cent a pound fol-
lowed each other within three weeks,


The “ Curvilinear ” Concentrating Table
Send for
Bulletin
and Price
J
Ĵ
J
Ĵ
J
Simple
and x
Reliable
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a
demonstration. Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery,
including stamp batteries, amalgamating tables, magnetic ore
separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting valves, water- and oil-
filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories. Electric
motors and Ellison switch gear.
Guthridge Pty. Limited,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
4' i
e-iv
-■s>
;'-K 5
yzsZWM*
~j>
$
LkrOv
.
;-a§:
-v. •
" :■;
. ■ » " V-
~ip-'-zzz>zJ
Wxm&t
%Auce
<. ’ • *•< >W§
£&sss£ <«*s< i fi> S:
? <•••. * |: ; ?tf ’* .^ :^|
/&&*
LEA £■ PERRINS
f£mouJ fiJoicedfaitiMie Satm.
I 'M
-im
but
none
surpass
\
T mc
rlW®** Compare any copying pencil
with Britain’s finest—ttie “Pedigree”—for
smoothness, strength and durability of colour.
You’ll find no better pencil the world over.
Because they are made of the highest quality
wood and graphite, “Pedigree” pencils do not
break or crumble when sharpened ; they retain
their smooth silky writing consistency and
colour intensity right to the end.
Obtainable in 3 degrees—Medium, Hard, Extra
Hard ; a range of 8 lasting colours.
If unobtainable from your stationer,
kindly contact your nearest agent.
( PENCIL COMPANY LIMITED)
Representatives in Australia
Vic., S. Aust. and Tas. : HUBERT JOHNSON PTY. LTD., 324-330
Flinders St., MELBOURNE. C.l. N.S.W. and Queensland;
WYNYARD TRADING CO., Margaret St., SYDNEY. W, Aust.:
CHAS. A. DONALD, Economic Chambers, William St., PERTH.
ADVERT OF BRITISH PENS LTD., BIRMINGHAM. ENGLAND.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
♦ * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone: MX 2208.
For Sale.
FOR SALE: ONE 14 H.P. COLO-
NIAL BOILER, complete with mild-
steel casing, new 30ft. smoke stack
and spare tubes; W.P. 1001 b.
NORTH QUEENSLAND ENGIN-
EERS & AGENTS, Box 297, Phone
2994, Cairns.
THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
•
Under
STATE GUARANTEE.
•
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
•
Writ 3 or Call for
Free Booklet
19 O’Connell Street
(Box 7A, G.P.0.), Sydney.
P. J. P. Pullen, Public Trustee.
Wow’s tk time...
&
ST
to mak yowr oar eager
for taster motoring
Your car will really be “rearin’ to go” over the Easter
holidays if you drive in note for a thorough MARFAK
chassis lubrication service. Be early and save yourself the
disappointment of “Sorry, all booked out before Easter”.
Marfak service is dependable service with every grease*
point double-checked ... by chart — not by chance. Drive
in where you see the MARFAK sign — Marfak service costs
only a few shillings.
MARFAK IS AN
EXCLUSIVE CALTEX PRODUCT
CHASSIS
LUBRICATION
JUS
Circular Charts for all types
of Recording Instrument*
tor any data of Machinery
or Equipment
MCTER CHARTS a Specialty
jxoiwws o r s£iu vanJmL
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
THE
“‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
• Company Accounts
• Mining Activities
PRICE 2/-
C0a1...
MILLIONS OF YEARS TO PRODUCE
Burned
in a Second
. . . How import-
ant it is, therefore,
to burn coal
properly and eco-
nomically, how-
ever great or small
the daily con-
sumption. With
world - wide ex-
perience, and a
knowledge of
Australian coals
that extends back
over 60 years,
Babcock specialise
in the design and
manufacture of
the most efficient
steam - raising
plant for all pur-
poses.
fS=4=J
□la la
□
n
r “5
X
a i
■ ' fll.
Longitudinal section
of O B, &W High
Head boiler unit
arranged for pul-
verised coal firing.
a- ‘
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
engineers and contractors
HEAD OFFICE & WORKS - - REGENTS PARK. N.S.W.
Branch Offices and Agencies in all Sfates
reducing the figure to 17
cents a pound. At the current
rate of exchange 17 cents a
pound is equal to approximately
£AIIB a ton, a drop of £A3I 4s.
a ton since the beginning of
March. Whether the U.S. price
will continue to slip depends
primarily upon two factors —
U.S. industrial demand and
stockpiling; lead is a key metal
in an atomic world.
Although the London price
has followed the upward trend
of the New York market for
lead, adjustments have not
always been immediate. That is
because of the British Govern-
ment’s bulk - buying contract
with the big producers at the
Barrier (N.S.W.), which are the
principal suppliers to the U.K.
market. If the same policy con-
tinues to be followed a reduc-
tion in the U.K. buying price
will depend upon when the cur-
rent contract with the Barrier
cos. runs out. Current London
price of the metal is £SI23
(£AIS3 155.) a ton. The Aus-
tralian domestic price was lifted
from £A22 to £A3S a ton from
the beginning of 1949; a figure
which must make overseas con-
sumers’ mouths water.
About three-quarters of the
lead produced in Australia is ex-
ported and the other quarter sold
locally at the pegged price.
The export price is therefore the
dominant factor in the average
price received by Australian pro-
ducers. Average export parity
price of lead, f.o.b. Australian
ports, rose from £A77 14s. lOd.
January, 1947, to £A94 13s. 3d.
January, 1948, and £AI3I 9s. 7d.
December, 1948.
The following table shows
what has happened to the price
of scrip in Australia’s five chief
lead-zinc producers since the
beginning of 1948:
, 1949 A
1948. Feb. Mar. Mar.
Jan. 10. 10. 30.
ZJinc Corp. 198/- 177/- 150/ 137/6
North B.H. 91/6 83/6 73/4 72/3
B.H. South 48/3 48/9 46/7 45/9
New B.H.
consd. .. 53/9 41/6 37/9 35/9
Mt. Isa .. 41/9 42/9 37/10 36/-
Prices have followed the trend
in London, though the drop has
been a little less pronounced. In
all cases current share prices are
below January, 1948, levels,
although the New York, London
and average Australian export
parity prices for the metal are
still higher than they were at the
beginning of 1948. One reason
is the heavy increase in costs,
which do not yet appear to have
reached their upper limit, and
another the fear that overseas
buying prices for the metal
might yet ease further.
The statistical position of lead
is sound, and seems likely to re-
main so for some time. Recent
famine prices were due to ex-
ceptional circumstances and were
a threat to stability of the in-
dustry. Well-informed quarters
do not expect that the U.S. price
will drop below 15 cents a
pound, or £AIO4 2s. a ton.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Bon Yi”: Football was as dead as
Csesar in our outback town till a new
publican arrived and stirred the fighting
blood of the locals. A couple of good
forwards were dug up from a forestry
camp, an ex-international player coached
the makeshift team, and the inhabitants
followed their champions en masse to
victory after victory. The premiership
of a big district was won, and there was
talk of sending rep.-players to the inter-
state matches. Today, the public talk
nothing but golf, an old paddock has
been made into a rough sort of country
course, and diehard football fans can
be seen sedately hitting the pill into the
rough. Youth clubs flourished like the
football for a couple of years, then gradu-
ally died of inertia. The Show Society
was revived from its moribund state into
a hive of industry last year, various com-
mittees waxed into strength, to wane even
quicker. Maybe it’s the country air
causing it —but mostly it’s because of the
underground comment freely passed
around against anyone trying to awaken
the apathy of old residents into something
like public-spiriledness.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Sydney is squirming its
way through a flea plague, and the papers
tell us that it is because the unusually
warm and humid conditions have been
ideal for the breeding of the beasties.
Keen observation is necessary to notice
fleas, so they’re the first insects to get a
mention; but the same conditions have
increased the wog population on tree,
garden and grass. Beside the usual lady-
birds, red with black spots, we can now
supply black ones with yellow spots;
and of the flat-looking beetles, bugs and
scaly things that were seen only now and
then there is a vast assortment to choose
from. Probably all these have been here
every year, but now there are so many
you can’t help seeing them. Those of
us who remember even more warm and
humid conditions further north will recall
that the insects there were the most
exotic feature of island life, from the
gorgeous butterflies and huge spiders
down to the ants that raided the paw-
paws ; and all of them used to spend
much time ensuring that their particular
species would not vanish from the earth
—a sore point with our nostalgic sergeant.
In .New Guinea the pied butcher-birds,
brown friar-birds, manucodes, shining
starlings, drongos (avian) and such had
the easiest going with such insectivorous
abundance, and down here the back-
yard blue wrens and silver-eyes are now
having a harvest. Indoors, homo sapiens
has to emulate them to the best of his
skill and knowledge.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Only twice have I had
the opportunity to observe the platypus
in its natural environment. The first time
was almost a bird’s-eye view as, from a
spot high up on a mountainside in the
rugged country between Mittagong
(N.S.W.) and Burragorang Valley, I
looked down on a small creek. Swimming
gracefully, a pair of the quaint little
creatures approached the bank. Sud-
denly, magically, they were gone. I
climbed all the way down to the creek,
but their disappearance remained a
mystery. Seven or eight years later, while
shooting on the upper Nepean, I peered
over a rise—and came upon one of the
prettiest scenes I have witnessed. On a
sand-bar 20ft. out in the stream, a
pair of platypuses frolicked and revelled
in the warm autumn sun. Just as I
was settling to enjoy a long session the
foxie found me —and them. I saw the
dark bodies take the water; that was all.
The closest investigation failed to locate
a burrow above the waterline. Con-
vinced that the escape was. made through
an opening under water, I visited Sydney
museum for confirmation. There, set
out in perfect detail (plus a section of
the bank cut down to show inside the
burrow) was a tableau very similar to
the natural one I had seen on the Nepean.
The burrow entrance was below the
waterline. Recently, however, I was
shown an extract from Furred Animals
of Australia which read: “Contrary to
popular belief the actual entrance is clear
of the water, being from four to twelve
feet above. The occasional underwater
opening i§ due to changes of level.” I
don’t presume to argue with Ellis Trough-
ton, but I do know that neither of those
streams were in flood.
* * * •
“Old-timer”: “It’s the talk, too,” Stone-
man said. “It ain’t the same. Y’ get into
a bar in a pub in some little town an’
what d’ y’ hear? Blokes tellin’ one an-
other about how their team got through
the drillin’? Or talkin’ about the draught
colts by somebody’s Clydesdale? No
ruddy fear. Do y’ hear ’em talkin’
about greasy heels or sprung pasterns or
whether coffee or kero, is best for sand?
No ruddy fear. About all y’ hear now is
how many hours they run without a
valve-grind an’ how hot she’s gotter be
before y’ switch to kerosene. An’, like
in the old days y’d have some bloke
who knew more about breakin’ ’em an’
“Do you Want a model for the next Archibald-prize competition ?”
doctor j n ’ ’ em than anyone else, now y’
nd a bloke talkin’ about bore an’ stroke
aQ . d j rect drive an’ bronze differentials
an > a j ot 0 ? bloomin’ double-Dutch. I
t pro p er jy tricked in Murchison North,
an > D | d Bill Clarkson was sinkin’ a
f ew an > a b | oke come in a bit dusty an’
says ‘M e wagon’s stuck in the crick
bottQm where kin l get a puUr Bill
Tll rin g Bob Henry for y’ ’ an’ goes
f \ h& hon ° t y fhat y . gotr [ asks the
b j oke ‘Wool or wheat?’ He looks at
*On your wagon,’ I says. 4
be a £ a j r j oad sto p s | x or e [ g ht horses,
because the crick ain’t too bad.’ ‘Six or
e j g ht horses! ’ he snorts. ‘Think I’m
dr i v in’ a road-louse? She’s a 24-horse
aR ’ six-cylinder.’ So I go out an’ have
a j ook an » blime if it ain’t one of them
stat i on ! wagon things, all walnut an’ silver-
mount i n ’ an ’ g i ass an ’ stu ff So I reckon
T better corn e hack Yair the hush is
all rieht ”
B& * * *
“Chuck”; Pete hung dejectedly over
his front gate, a sad, faraway look in
his eyes. “Whassamatter, Pete?” old
Charlie pulled up to inquire. “Aw, I
a i W ays have the darnedest luck, Chari,”
p e te told him mournfully, “Y’ know
how I bin plannin’t’ have the ’omestead
’ere done up some time? Runnin’ re-
pairs, an’ a few improvements that we’ve
thought up over the years?” “Yair, I
know,” Charlie answered. “You had a
builder engaged t’ start, didn’t y’?”
“That’s right,” came the sigh. “At least,
me ol’ man booked ’im up ; an’ when I
took over, there it was all down in
black-’n’-white that he’s t’ start in March,
1949. Aw, it’s bad luck, Chari.” Pete
shook his head. “Y’ see, the missus was
bankin’ on a kitchen that don’t leak, an’
a few things like that, an’ now we can’t
’ave ’em, ’cos the carpenter bloke’s gorn
’n’ pegged out.” Charlie contributed a
brace of sympathetic duckings. “Yair,
darn good builder he was, too. Course,
it was me ol’ man’s fault in a way,” Pete
went on, “for not seein’ this’d ’appen.
Didn’t think, I s’pose; the bloke bein’
strong an’ ’ealthy-lookin’ an’ in is prime
when ’e booked me ol’ man’s job in turn
on ’is waiting-list.” “But, cripes, it
wasn’t your Dad’s fault, Pete,” protested
Charlie, “if the builder met a accident
or sickness before he got to your job.
What’d ’e die of?” “Aw, it weren’t
nothin’ like that, Chari,” Pete returned
wearily. “Just ol’ age.”
0 * * •
"Bo”: One of the hands,had seen a
ewe, apparently just after gasping her
last breath, lying stiff on the ground, and
later reported to the boss that she had
died. Next morning Choom was given
instructions to go down and burn the
carcass. With a dubious look, a box
of matches and some twigs, the amateur
cremator set out, but a half-hour later
he was back, panting violently and in a
lather of perspiration. The boss asked
had he done the job. “Naw, sir,” gasped
Choom. “Y’ see, every time Ah goes to
streek a match Ah’ve got to drop it
’cause the beastie will try to stroogle
oop!”
* * * *
“J.E.8.”: Tell “Coral Cod” (B.
9/3/’49) that the manufacture of Dam-
ascus steel swords and dagger-blades —
a craft which has been handed down
from father to son for hundreds of
years—is essentially as follows: A rough
blade is forged of mild- or soft-iron, and
white-hot bundles of fine needles of steel
are hammered into it. Frequently the
steel needles bend, thus forming the
crescent shape referred to. Where inlay
work is done it is usual for gold needles
to be hammered in in the same way, not
for the steel to be picked out and the gold
then inserted. When sufficient steel has
been added—and therein lies the art —
the whole blade is tempered and forged
in the usual way.
*
“Bert”: The suggestion of “Jim N.”
(B. 16/3/’49) re the derivation of “cob-
bler” as applied to the slowest man on
the shearing-board hardly covers all the
possibilities. Perhaps he was so named
because he shore a sole sheep per day
and was always on his uppers, or because
the boss of the board said things that
made his ears tingle. Again, it may have
been beca use all the other shearers could
lace him and called him everything they
could la y tongue to. Or was the nick-
name “cobbler” due to the fact that he
grouched about the tack served up by
the cook? Personally, I think the name
arose from the fact that early in the piece
he complained of a stitch in the side,
whereat the boss threatened to put the
boot into him.
* * * *
“Murrawong”: “Second Shingler” (B.
23 /3 / ’49) is right in reckoning there
should be little trouble in tracing the
origin of “cobbler,” as it is of compara-
tively recent vintage—well within my
shearing lifetime, at any rate. Every
woolclasser knows that it doesn’t take
shearers long to learn how to pick the
best-shearing sheep in a pen. Within the
few seconds from emptying the shorn
sheep down the chute to the dragging of
a fresh woolly on to the board he has
sized up the score of sheep in the pen
and mentally drafted them in the same
way as departmental blowfly experts
class a mob into types A, B and C,
according to body development. The
A’s are plain-bodied with shafty, light-
conditioned wool; B’s, heavier-condi-
tioned, with some little development; and
C’s the wrinkly, shorter-woolled, heavy-
conditioned, tough cutters that attract the
fly and repel the shearer. When shearing
starts on a new flock the experienced
classer knows that the first fall of fleeces
will almost all go into his top line, and
he will defer the setting of his lines until
the catching-pens are reduced and the
fleeces are more representative. The tough
sheep are left for the final catch before
the bell, as it doesn’t matter —except to
the rouseabouts —whether it takes two or
15 minutes to gouge the fleece off. These
bell catches used to be heralded with
“Well, here’s what the cobbler killed his
wife with.” From that it was a short
step to “the cobbler.” Sometimes it was
varied to a synonym—“the snob.” But
while the learner, who was usually the
slowest shearer in the shed —in the days
when dinkum learners were given a pen
and not a hairy-chested “learner” who
could do his 150 a day—they were the
blokes who “dragged the chain,” but it
was always the last sheep —not the shearer
—who was the “cobbler.”
* * * *
“Jaydee”: I can vouch for. the com-
mon native tortoise going walkabout (B.
9/3/’49). During a very dry summer at
Lake Boga in the Victorian Mallee, I
saw thousands of tortoises making their
way toward the lake. Traffic on the
adjoining highway was taking heavy toll
of them. It appeared that a shallow
lake about a mile and a half away was
quickly drying up, and instinct had done
the rest. The main railway-line
created a firm obstacle. As they
clambered over each single rail they
would topple on their backs, to remain
and perish. The more intelligent and
successful voyagers would use the fallen
victims as stepping-stones over the tracks
—while others made their way around
to the level-crossing to run the gauntlet
of road traffic.
* ■# * *
“Howie Wing”: I was sitting under a
gum eating my lunch and browsing
through the paper the wife had wrapped
it in. Just as I finished reading a news-
item about some fellow who claimed he
had seen a kookaburra eat five snakes
straight off I heard an excited sort of
sound above me. Looking up, I saw a
kookaburra, his eyes intently fixed on my
open paper. Shortly afterwards he took
off and dived into the scrub. There came
the sound of a short scuffle and then
silence. Later I came upon a large black
snake with a big bulge in his midriff,
apparently snoring off a feed. Which goes
to show that you can’t always believe all
you read in the papers.
« * * *
“Billy T.”: Old Jimmie is the ideal
driver on a bush track, but on a main
road he’s a menace. It isn’t that he can't
handle his truck—nobody could drive into
J’s. back paddock and get out again if
he wasn’t master of his vehicle —but
once he hits the bitumen every straight
stretch stirs him to reminiscence, and
on each bend he’s overtaken by an anec-
dote. “Useter be a pub on that flat over
there” —Jimmie’s right arm shoots out
rigid and points to a bit of a clearing
back from the road. A big limousine
that was in the act of overtaking him
suddenly shies at the “signal” and squirms
in behind. “The bloke that had it useter
do a bit o’ duffin’ on the side, and he
kept the cattle he pinched in that bit of
a clearin’ you can see up the gully at
the back. He’d know when the drovers
were cornin’ through, and if they stopped
for a while at the pub he’d have his men
waitin’ to nab a couple o’ beasts and
get ’em out o’ sight behind that little
hill you see over there on the left.'
Here his right arm would unbend, take
the wheel, while his left stabbed across
your face to indicate the aforesaid
eminence, upon which the limousine
would dart out and speed ahead, closely
followed by the considerable cortege
which had banked up behind it. This
narrative over, James is then likely to
confide, “We’ll stop here.” Usually this
announcement is unnecessary, as we’ve
already stopped in our own length with-
out the formality of any warning.
“There’s an old culvert built by convicks.
You’ll like to see it.” I’m always grateful
to see it; a special Providence has so
far cleared the road astern just prior to
these halts, but one of these days we
may stop and not see anything any more.
But all this is forgotten when you sit
with the old boy as he wheedles a load
of timber out of the gullies where some
wouldn’t take a jeep. He says he’s going
to drive to Sydney one of these days;
did the trip by road when he was a lot
younger and wants to see what changes
there are. Wants me to go with him,
too; but I’m not a starter unless Jimmie
agrees to wear winkers.
HOME.
I shall go home for Christmas,
Back to the bush, next year.
The pavements will not miss me
And the tramcars will not care.
They will bring the buggy to meet me
And whirl me back to the farm;
Under my mother’s roof-tree
I shall be safe from harm.
We will deck the old verandah
And the doors with boughs of trees
And hang the stable-lanterns
Among the greeneries.
We shall be gay together,
Not with noise or beer
But the unspoiled holiday gladness
That came but once a year.
We will wake in the morning early
To hear the magpies sing
Carols down in the paddock
And hear the cowbells ring.
We will picnic down by the river
And half our youth regain
In the green goodwill of the forest,
The peace of the open plain.
Time shall not harass or hound us,
All shall be what it seems;
I shall be home for Christmas
But—only in my dreams
N.S.W.
K. DALZIEL.


“Telarb”: The story of Davis, the
teacher at Murray Island in the mid-
’twenties, is worth recording. Overhearing
certain village gossip, he was convinced
that the cult of Waiatt the Augad was
still going on underground, even though
the islanders outwardly accepted and
practised Christianity. He decided to
have a stab at locating the Augad himself
and went to Waiar, the rocky, unin-
habited small island a short distance from
Murray, where, after a lot of prospecting,
he struck oil and found the old bloke
himself; a fearsome mixture of bones
and feathers. Congratulating himself,
Davis unceremoniously bundled his
Augadship into a bag and took him back
to Murray. Here he was met by a grim,
muttering crowd, who, having heard of
his purpose, had waited apprehensively
for his return. Davis’s life was not actu-
ally menaced, but apparently he was more
or less forced to take the old boy back
in lieu of nastiness. This he ostensibly
did i v the same sugarbag—and all was
well. But what the islanders didn’t find
out for a long time —the Waiatt celebra-
tions being only an annual binge—was
that Davis had pushed Waiatt under his
bed and had taken back a sugarbag of
rubbish. On his next visit south he took
the fallen god to the Brisbane Museum,
where he is still in residence.
• * * •
“Betcha”: One of the best runs I’ve
witnessed was put up by a greyhound-
whippet cross after a hare. ' 1 The hare
was an outsize with a fancy for the flats
on the home block, and on the numerous
occasions he had been put up he can-
tered off easily, leaving the rabbit-pack
looking plain foolish. The ginger runner
had no support when we flushed the big
hare and they took off. Up the flat for
half-a-mile, the dog turning him before
he gained hill country, and they came
back. Three times the hare gained rising
ground after a half-mile run, only to be
turned back. Then he started to dodge.
Through fern patches, under logs and
round fallen timber he feinted, wheeled
and doubled, but always the dog was
too close to allow him much headway.
Time and again he escaped by a small
fraction, and gradually the pace slack-
ened till a man could have outrun the
pair at a trot, I didn’t speak to the dog.
Te knew his job. Soon came a rolling
lurch in their gait, and still they ambled
on. They were quite close when the dog
finished things, and his return, bringing
the catch, was something to see. He
tried to hand it up, dropped it instead
on my boots, and collapsed. With his
head flat-out on the ground, eyes glassy,
sides heaving with a noise that could be
heard at a considerable distance, I
thought for a minute it would turn out a
deadheat; but a quarter of an hour after
the old runner regained his legs.
* =f= * *
“Phinemuri”: Koa offered Timi a lift
home from the dance in the dicky-seat of
the old roadster. It being a bitterly
cold night the Maori induced Timi to
button his overcoat on back to front on
account of his “weak chest.” A check-
up some miles along the winding road
revealed that Timi was missing. Re-
turning to look for him, they came to
a knot of Maoris around Timi. “How
Je poy?” asked Koa. “I can’t know
’, Koa ” said one °f the bystanders.
He’s the funny ferrer, ornght. Pick
him up and he swear like anything.
Turn his head round te right way and
now he won’t speak.”
* * * *
“Solitude”: Seventyfiver turned the
mob on to the flat opposite and made
tor the pub. As he approached, a
dressed-up bloke on the verandah eyed
him interestedly, and when he emerged
ten minutes later with a couple under
his belt the bloke was waiting. “You are
a local, I suppose,” he greeted Seventy-
fiver. “Probably you have never travelled
much.” “Aw, I dunno,” came the reply.
“Only last week I got back from
Mason City,” “Mason City,” pondered
the stranger. “Er... Mason City...”
“Don’t y’ know it? Cripes, I thought
everybody knew the Mason,’* said the
old bloke. “Named after the brothers
that found the mine there. Fifty miles
in from The Circle. We took a mob
”We think the company should supply new oilskins
through.” “I see. Like these bullocks
you have here? A nice mob of Here-
fords, I must say.” “Them ain’t bullicks,”
snorted Seventyfiver. “They’re cows.
An’ anybody c’n see without lookin’ that
they’re quarter-cross.” “Oh. And you
are taking them to be slaughtered for
city consumption?” “Aw, don’t be mad.
Y’ can’t kill beasts in that condition,”
Seventyfiver pointed out impatiently.
“I’m meetin’ Sol’s mob at Suggan, an’
we’re goin’ through to the Groggin. Y’
know Tom Groggin at all?” _ “Afraid
I’ve never heard of him.” “It ain’t him ;
it’s it” snorted the old bloke, and de-
cided another drink was called for.
“Talking to the professor, were you?”
grinned Bung. “That cove lectures at
the university.” “Him!” Seventyfiver
looked staggered. “But ...but cripes,”
he gasped, “the silly goat knows nothin’ /”
* * * *
“Bagot”: I found a butcher-bird
clutching the wires of the canary’s-cage
and pecking the life out of my songster
which, had it retreated to the middle of
the floor, would have been well out of
reach of its assailant’s long beak. Later
I built an aviary in which it was possible
for the occupants to shelter more than
6ft. from the mesh. Yet three times in
the past year butcher-birds have by some
means enveigled canaries into positions
close enough to bring off a kill. I’m
beginning to think the pied fowl have
hypnotic powers.
# * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: A full-grown man with
a beard a foot long confronted us as we
went up from the road to the farm-
house. “Heard y’ had some fencin’,”
"I'm glad WE cant fly.”
Mat said. “Yair, a bit,” he admitted
cautiously. “Wait there, I’ll hafta ask
me sister.” He disappeared. We mut-
tered profane humor at each other. He
reappeared. “What’s y’r price?” “Eighty
quid a mile,” Mat said. “Four t’ the
chain, five-wire, posts laid on the line.”
Big-beard pondered ; then, “I’ll hafta ask
me sister,” he said, and retreated into
the house. More profanity between us.
He reappeared after a longer interval.
“Sounds all right,” he said. “Only thing is,
we can tucker y’, but y’ might hafta kill
now an’ then when I’m away, an’ we don’t
eat up big on Sundees.” We stepped
apart and conferred. “Righto,” Mat told
him. “What’ll y’ hit us f’r keep?” The
bearded one frowned. “Wait there, I’ll
hafta ask me sister,” When he vanished
Mat said, “Say, I reckon we better get
a look at this sister,” His Nibs came
back with his sister’s assent to a quid a
week for keep. We started the job, and
the first couple of days we had to have
frequent consultation with Big-beard
about this or that, and every time he gave
us the drill about having to ask his sister,
went to the house, and returned with the
answer. Sometimes he’d be going back
and forth half the day. But when we
went to the nouse for meals she was
never in sight. It took us a week to dis-
cover that the sister owned the place and
lived in town, 12 miles away. All the
discussion went on by telephone.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: You’ve got to
sail around Port Phillip during the open
season to see the hundreds of black
duck and teal that take refuge from the
guns during daylight hours on the
boisterous w.aters of the bay. Then at
night they fly shorewards to feeding-
grounds, Recently I saw squatting on
Corio Bay a mob of 40 whistling tree-
duck—you couldn’t mistake that whistling
call as they made off —and they were
there for days. Percy Wood, Geelong’s
noted bird observer and a crack game
shot for 60 years, says he’s only known
these tree-canards in the district once
before.
« * ♦ ♦
“Belyanda Bill”: The rule of nature,
so far as I have observed, seems to be
this: that every tortoiseshell cat is a
female and every yellow or ginger a
male. I still await contradiction of it.
» * * *
“Royal Street”: One exception only,
“Dusty Mile” (B. 23/3/’49), can I cite re
your contention that no form of life will
have anything to do with the oleander;
the larvae of the Australian crow butter-
fly live on it—or did during their southern
invasion last year. Usually restricted to
the north, sometimes appearing sparsely
as far as Sydney, this insect, in 1948, set
southern naturalists a-twitter by swarm-
ing down eastern N.S.W, and crossing
the Murray. The grubs—big active
fellows with their transverse bands of
yellow, white and black, and “armed”
with three pairs of “horns” forrard and
one pair aft —must have as their food
a plant with a milky sap, and on the
drive south the oleander was apparently
the only plant found suitable. It can’t
have caused much mortality, for the
grubs pupated and the black butterflies
hatched in hundreds. Haven’t seen one
this year, but don’t think their diet had
anything to do with that. Last season’s
influx was one of those insect invasions
that just happen; a phenomenon ex-
ploited long ago by a bloke named Moses.
* * •
“Emu”: The black cockatoo is usually
given the credit for being the best avian
weather prophet, but a seagull that has
voluntarily made a near-by garden its
home rates high as a feathered baro-
meter, A quiet bird usually, rain never
fails to come within 24 hours of its giving
a special short, rising call. In the
summer months a longer, brighter note
can be translated “continuing hot.” I
have known it to give the rain call, and
within a short while contradict it. When
it does so it repeats the heat call many
times, as if trying to impress that it is
endeavoring to correct a mistake.
* * * *
“Zake”; The knot-humper had been
given a feed at the farmhouse, after
which he torpidly staggered down to the
woodheap, which had been the subject
of certain delicate negotiations before
the knife-and-fork work had begun.
Picking up the axe, he visually inspected
the blade and then ran his finger along it.
“Gripes!” he said. “You don’t expect a
bloke to sock into wood with a thing as
blunt as a crowbar, do y’? Have y’ got
a grindstone about?” “Yair,” replied the
cocky. “You’ll find it behind the tool-
shed.” “Aw, I couldn’t touch that —I
don’t belong to the A.W.U., an’ I’d
prob’ly be declared black if I did. But
I tell y’ what —have the axe fixed up an’
I’ll give it a go next summer when I’m
cornin’ this way again!”
c ♦ * *
“Carpentaria”: For sheer pugnacity
the green-and-yellow tree-ant of the
Torres Straits islands would make a
worthy opponent for the mainland bull-
dog ant. The green heads and tails,
with the middle section honey-colored,
afford them color-protection, and usually
the bites are the first indication that one
has collected a few of them. They build
their nests by binding together the foliage
with a kind of gossamer exuded from
their bodies. First a few leaves are
combined and successfully added to till
the structure grows to the size of a small
football.
« * * •
“Lower Tops’l”: Watched a tussle in
the Yarra recently between a large black
cormorant and a 3ft. eel. The bird sur-
faced with half the snake-like fish down
his gullet, but because of the violent
wriggling and the flapping of the eel’s
protruding tail, at the end of two hours
the black flier had made no more progress
with his meal. As eels take hours to die
I’m still wondering who won that battle.
* * * *
“J.G.S.”: The lamentations of the abos
on the death of one of their number (B.
2/3/’49) constitute an actual calling to
those in the spirit-world to bid the de-
parted welcome. Their mutilations
merely bear testimony to their affection
and esteem for the departed. As for
carrying their dead around with them,
the abo regarded his travel as bounding
his spirit-ground; as no spirit could
travel unknown territory, the departed’s
spirit-ground territory would be greatly
widened by carrying him around on
walkabout. Many European peoples in
ancient times practised this rite.
* * * *
“C.E.”: Barney and Vic met up in the
township, and after listening to each
other’s experiences decided to make a
team. Together they bought some second-
hand traps, landed the trapping rights on
Dad Walterson’s rabbit-infested land, and
set out to make a pile. They had been
on the job about a week when Walterson
came on Vic mooching, empty-handed,
along one end of the trapline. “What’s
all the little heaps o’ dirt in aid of?” he
called, eyeing the line. “It’s the traps, o’
course,” Vic answered gloomily. “Got t’
cover ’em over, ain’t y’?” “Not like that,”
Walterson scowled. “Y’ have to dig a
hole an’ put ’em in. Here, I’ll show y’.”
Vic watched interestedly. “Would y’
mind not tellin’ Barney about it?” he
asked presently. “Y* see, Barney’s
a first-class trapper, an’ he’d think I wus
a mug.” A few days l&ter, Walterson
rode on to Barney in the next paddock.
He learned that the rabbits were not
catching well, and he watched while
Barney reset one of a long row of traps.
“What’re y’ settin’ there for?” he gasped.
“Eh? Bloke in town sez it’s the best
place ... on their tracks like that,”
Barney defended. Walterson roared.
“Yair, but them’s ant tracks,” he pointed
out. “C’mere an’ I’ll show y’ the differ-
ence.” Barney fidgeted awkwardly.
“Gripes, don’t tell Vic nuthin’ about it,
will y’?” he coaxed. “Y’ see, I ain’t done
much uv it meself, but he’s a first-rate
trapper.”
NOONDAY COAST.
Calm is the sea save for the swell
That laps the hot white sand
Where the lazy lips of the water tell
That the sea’s asleep with the land.
Still as the day are the fishing-boats
That nod with the sway of the tide,
And each slim mast dips down and floats
Deep down where the shadows ride.
There’s the Nancy Lee and the Marion Belle
In their dress of grey and green,
The Jane all white, and the Sailor Nell
As blue as the eye has seen;
The sun at rest on the Nancy Lee,
The shadows at play on the Jane,
And a fisherman, as brown as can be,
Mending the nets again.
The tea-tree is wrapped in sun and mist,
The haze hangs grey and still,
A plume of smoke with a spiral twist
Points up from a distant hill;
The fisherman’s huts rest in a row
Of old-blue and brown and grey,
And standing high, the red cliffs now
Are at peace with the spupie and spray.
The thin grey pier is in silhouette,
The coast is a purple band,
The far-out rocks are dimly set,
Shines blue the wet of the sand;
On an upturned boat the white gulls rest,
Comes the smell of the kelp of the sea,
And the Marion Belle and Jane lie abreast,
Asleep with the Nancy Lee.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


Sfirt.
•Re
C&
%
fit*®
o*
ti 4
\o©
c&'R
o^ii
at
1©
it^ a
l\© d
ea^ a
\>©
(U
6^
X/
IR
S. X-
-3M
rft
m
m
m
w a
CAPSTAN
THE EMPIRE’S FAVOURED CIGARETTE 5
712 D-10.48
Hi
CSvL
'S
Established 1808 in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle
of Waterloo, and has em-
erged from them all with
greater strength and pres-
tige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
(England)
ATLAS BUILDINGS,
8 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
F. V. MIERS, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER, Assistant Manager
for Australia and New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT, Manager
for Australia and New Zealand.
IXL - AJC
OK - VC
These World Famous Brands are
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:—
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:-~*
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Sharemarket Review
A heavy fall has occurred in
the prices of shares listed on
Australian Stock Exchanges
since the 1949 peak was reached
on January 13. In about 11
weeks the Sydney index of in-
dustrial-share prices has fallen
from just under 187 to just under
172 ; and in the same period the
leading industrial stock, Broken
Hill Prop., has fallen from
595. 3d. to 50s. The fall in
8.H.P., therefore, has been at a
somewhat greater rate than in the
general body of all industrials.
This extra fall has been partly
influenced by the drop in the
price of lead —really nothing to
do with B.H.P. —and to the dis-
appointment that has followed
the announcement of new issues
in other cases, Bradford Cotton
being one example. A new issue
is expected from B.H.P. some
time in the future when it gets
moving on its tinplate job.
Smaller earnings by Australian
Iron and Steel have also been an
influence in the price of B.H.P.
scrip. Shortage of coal has
affected steel production badly.
There was a drop in the share-
market this time last year.
Sydney industrial-share index
fell from an opening peak of
about 195 to 179 in mid-March.
But in April, 1948, there was a
smart recovery, and by June the
industrial - share index was
around 190 again. This same
seasonal influence —apparent in
nearly all the pre-war years—is
probably at work again this year,
though apcentuated by additional
factors, principally overseas.
B.H.P. rose as high as 60s. 9d.
in 1948 and went as low as 545.
There has been a decline in
most export values lately. Wool
is not quite as high as it was,
wheat is down, metals are down
also, and rabbitskins, which be-
came quite a factor among our
exports at one stage, have
slumped. But the overall level
of export prices is still high;
and it should be noted that share
prices have never, since the war,
followed the buoyancy in prices
for primary products or move-
ments in our export income.
That is excepting, of course, con-
cerns directly interested, such as
the Barrier mines. The calendar
year 1948, which saw a big rise
in export prices, saw a small
decline in the average prices of
industrial shares. In the same
period big additions were made
to our Lqndon funds.
The Bulletin contends that
the main obstacles to profit-
earning better than we have
hitherto seen, with a higher
standard of living for wage-
earners, are of a political and
trade-union character at the
present time. Socialism, Com-
munism, the vested interests of
trade-unionism and public in-
dolence and apathy stand in the
way of our getting the best out
of our economy, which is cap-
able, under better management,
of yielding real wages and real
dividends of far greater value
than at present. We cannot in-
sulate ourselves entirely against
adverse economic conditions, but
we have the capacity, even if a
recession occurs in the United
States, to do far better than we
are doing at present.
That is a general outlook on
the economic and industrial posi-
tion. To become more specific,
numerous factors, some conflict-
ing, may be noted and analysed.
Last year’s record national in-
come in Australia looks like
being exceeded this year. The
“income,” however, is partly
based on payments, and wages
during 1949 seem like having a
record rise. So much of our
“national income” is inflation.
Whereas the United States and
Canada expect a fall in living
costs in the near future, and in
Great Britain public spending-
power has noticeably contracted,
in Australia costs are still rising,
and spending-power is still high,
even though some commodities,
such as cotton cloths, appear to
be overstocked. Shares in retail
stores may consequently be
affected.
The volume of money in Aus-
tralia on Sept. 30 last was £l6ll
million, compared with £1356
million about the time Japan
surrendered and £612 million in
June, 1939.
A revaluation of assets in the
case of a concern like B.H.P.
would show that, on present-day
"Now, don't forget—look Dad up and make him
Write home.”
values, shareholders had a much
larger capital investment than is
indicated by balance - sheet
figures. Though wage-earners
are permitted compensation in
the Arbitration Court for this
depreciation in money values,
shareholders have not been
allowed any recompense by
price-control authorities or the
Canberra Socialists. And taxa-
tion rates remain savagely high
on companies.
There have been no post-war
public-co. stock waterings such
as occurred in 1920-22.
Manufacturing companies as
a whole are not even allowed as
high a profit on the nominal
value of their capital investment
as they were before the war.
One major factor in the weaker
sharemarket has been the huge
amount of new capital asked for
by industry over the past two
years. Staniforth Ricketson
pointed out at the meeting of
Capel Court Investment Co. that
while new issues having caused
sharemarket indigestion may
appear strange, in view of the
record volume of public savings,
“actually, however, the investing
public comprises only a small
part of the whole population.”
It appears fo be a fact that,
with the first succession of dis-
appointments as to the market
price of new issues, the “stag”
money that has been in evidence
ever since Stock Exchange
controls were removed has re-
tired, temporarily, at any rate,
from the scene. Speculation has
suddenly lost its zest, and there
has been a sharp reaction.in the
market from this cause. Mean-
while investors looking for a
good yield can buy new Brad-
ford Cotton scrip to give a return
of 4.8 p.c., whereas hitherto the
yield has been around 3.7 p.c.
And Bradford has a record of
steady 10 p.c. divs. behind it.
The present weakness in the
market may tend to effect its own
cure of “new-issue indigestion.”
Premiums fixed by the Treasury
should be lower, and there will
be less temptation to sell pro-
prietary companies to the pub-
lic.
Another factor in present
sharemarket jitters is the high
paper-money price put on almost
everything these days. There is
a feeling that “what goes up
must come down.” While that
is true up to a point, the share-
market, as mentioned, has never
been capitalised on the basis of
recent high export prices, and,
anyway, whatever price-shocks
we are to see in the readjustment
period, pre-war prices and costs
are, generally speaking, gone for
good. Capital values have risen
as well as costs.
Another influential factor in
the market has been the Govern-
ment’s cheap - money policy.
With the bond rate around 3 p.c.,
investors have been prepared to
accept a low return from good
industrial stocks. This has helped
the Government to get away with
the semi-starvation of industry
and with its high company-tax
policy, and it has permitted it to
impose heavy share premiums
where new issues have been
; offered by established businesses.
One danger in the Australian
set-up that must be watched
particularly is the continued rise
in our costs, which contrasts with
a steadying in the inflationary
trend overseas. It would be a
tragedy if we wantonly, for mere
political ends, dissipate the costs
advantage which have had—
partly through exchange
anomalies —since the end of the
war.
Australia has plenty of work
ahead of its industries as a whole,
i Underproduction is still the out-
standing feature of our mines
and factories. And though the
. United States, and perhaps
i Japan, will have an abundance
of goods for export if present
overseas production trends con-
’ tinue, Australia cannot buy from
abroad more than its export in-
: come permits. Our high present
i London funds notwithstanding,
’ we are more dependent on our
' own manufacturing resources
i than we used to be.


Your dependants’ security is in
your hands. It can be simply
and definitely assured by your
action now in arranging adequate
life assurance. The Equitable
Probate & General Insurance Co.
Ltd. will expertly advise you on
how best to discharge this
important responsibility.
R. V. PERKINS,
General Manager
EQUITABLE PROBATE
b OENERAL INSURANCE CO. LTD.
/fciuffir/siane
WIH0EU0 Mouse, ANOtL PLACE, SYDNEY
COLLINS HOUSE. COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
L
J
STOPyour Rupture
Worries/
Mark S) location
of YOUg RUPTURE.
The new Roussel
enables you to work
with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition
necessary for im-
provement or re-
covery. Recommend-
ed by thousands.
Call or send stamp for details, self-
measurement form and 1!§ Days’ Free
Trial Offer. No obligation.
ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
BEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
•TEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS t : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
JACKSON
OSUIJJVAx
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd,
Incorporating
Union Bank
of Australia Limited
(,Incorporated in England)
cheque account with the Idanl ii ai
convenient to the private individuaiai it ii
eiientiai to the luiineii liouie.
irancli wi ■gfUtf adviie you.
of
ESTABLISHED 1837
Branches throughout Australia G> New Zealand
pRAW?
Try your aptitude for Com*
mercial Art by submitting, for
free expert criticism, copies of
test drawings from our present
tation booklet, “Art Ability
Tests".
a
m
k
TflA
fl0 j33R| O
l
Commercial Art will appeal to you.
Leading professionals will cheek over your
work, without cost to you. If you have a
flair for drawing and sketching, there are
quite possibly big opportunities for you
In the Commercial Art world. So write
tonight! The booklet you will receive I*
handsomely illustrated and the question*
naire intensely practical.
££JV£> 7W£ C?OV/>0M~rf0U/
art training institute,
80 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Please send me your illustrated 32-page
booklet ART ABILITY TESTS. I enclose
5d. for registered postage.
Name ...••**•
(Mr.. Mrs., or Miss)
Address .. •• ..*••• %*
State .. .. ..
Bui. 6/4/’49
THAT
A
*
S>-
The
This responsibility
is yours
Your beneficiaries have every right to expect that your
estate will be handled with the utmos care. I: yo»r
judgment is faulty, imprudent administration can endanger
assets built up by your energy and foresigh . H°w ev er. it
is a simple matter to provide competent control. me
appointment of Burns Philp Trust Company ; as cxecu o.
or trustee ensures that your beneScianes will be protected
at every turn.
A copy of "Hands That Never Leave the Wheel" will be
forwarded on request. Full details of the Company s many
services are given in this interesting booklet.
James Bara. Joseph MllehSl'^TW-£
MANAGER: L. S. Parker SECRETARY: A.P.I.A.
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR • TRUSTEE • AGENT
Constituted by Special Act of the N.S.W. Parliament.
Head Office: 7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
Tel.: BU 5901
Box 543. G.P.O., Sydney
LONDON AIRMAIL
From Herbert Holman
Domestic life knows no opera-
tion more uprooting than that of
moving house. My own first
tenancy only happened because
of some pre-war savings, a war
gratuity and the expense-free
waters of the Russian route and
the Admiralty Islands. We were
able to move a second time be-
cause a flat became vacant on
the death of an old lady. Our
urgent need for a transfer was
known and appreciated. There
was a general reshuffle, and one
flat, our own, became vacant.
Although old-fashioned, re-
mote and inconvenient, it im-
mediately became the focus of
activity. The owners brought
out their waiting-list (closed at
600) and sought out the man at
the head of the list. He came to
view the flat with a young
couple noticeably in anxious
attendance. As he was reason-
ably comfortable in' furnished
rooms and would shortly be re-
turning to Fremantle, he didn’t
want the flat himself, but
thought his young colleague
might have it instead. The
owners wouldn’t allow anyone
to “jump” the list, so they turned
to the second nanje.
His wife said that he had left
that morning for a business trip
to the Welsh border, but that
she would try and get hold of
him. He returned, immediately
when he read the telegram that
was waiting for him at his
destination. They wanted a
luxury apartment with const,
h.w. and all mod. convns., which
ours certainly didn’t offer. In-
deed, the project was so unin-
viting to them, even as a step-
ping-stone to a better world,
that they sacrificed their place on
the waiting-list.
The third applicant, a business
lady, beamed with joy. To her
it might have been paradise.
Metropolitan Housing
There is nothing to point to
any substantial improvement in
housing conditions in Greater
London during the post-war
years. The condition of the
house- and flat-dwellers can be
summarised, quite simply, in
descending order of good for-
tune. The first, and happiest,
are those who bought new
houses on mortgage in the late
’thirties. A suburban house
which then cost £BOO will now
sell at about £3OOO, even after
allowing for a slight drop in
prices due to recent general
shortage of money. Second are
the “sitting tenants” whose rents
are controlled. With increasing
costs, landlords are glad to sell
and be relieved of -what often
proves to be a liability; they
can’t give notice and then sell
with vacant possession, but must
first offer the house to the
tenant at a low, controlled price.
Thus the tenant has either a
cheap house or, if he chooses to
sell, a cool profit of perhaps
£lOOO. Third are flat-dwellers
whose rents are controlled and
who held their tenancies before
the war. Fourth are those hard-
pressed families, mainly working-
class, who, after being bombed
out, were directed into pre-fabs,
requisitioned properties or muni-
cipal flats at subsidised rents:
that they are fortunate is unde-
niable, but they form a mere
fraction of the number still wait-
ing.
Of the considerable rest some
have bought houses at high
prices and are groaning under
the strain of their mortgage re-
payments ; some have obtained
flats by buying the furniture or
fittings at prices that bore little
relation to the open market;
others are living in rooms or
furnished flats and have no
security of tenure. Most newly-
married couples and many
not-so-young—are living with
in-laws and, in some cases, apart.
Yet the dogmatic voice of the
Minister of Health repeatedly
asserts that he will, in good time,
have homes for every family in
the land.
“We live in deeds, not years; in
thoughts, not breaths;
In feelings, not in figures on a dial.
We should count time by heart-
throbs ...”
Economic Survey
A year ago, with Marshall Aid
no more than a confident hope,
the Economic Survey had to
avoid any suggestion of an-
ticipation or planning and con-
centrate upon the two factors
then most important: the needs
to halt inflation and to switch
labor to essential industries. Be-
cause of high taxation, purchase
tax, decreased spending power
and some resistance to the pres-
sure of wage demands the surge
of inflation has been stemmed ;
but the transfer of labor, as
every realist foresaw, was the
expression of a hope and not of
a conviction.
The survey admits that 1948,
“a year of great and steady pro-
gress,” owed something to Mar-
shall Aid. Industrial production
rose by 12 per cent, against a
rise in the labor force of only 2
per cent. It does not acknow-
ledge that external and non-
political influence, the weather,
which spoiled 1947 and helped
1948. The “great increase in
steel output”—hardly a Govern-
ment asset, since it was due to
private enterprise under threat of
nationalisation—is said to have
“enabled production to expand
in many investment and export
industries.” Coal and textiles fell
short of their targets. Imports
rose slightly (about 4 per cent.)
and exports considerably (25 per
cent.) over 1947. But, after a
recital of more figures and more
platitudes the survey comes
down to earth with one simple
sentence: “In terms of dollars
we are not paying our way.”
For 1949 the survey lays down
four paramount objectives, none
of which says anything new.
They are, briefly: more exports
to Canada and the U.S., greater
production, lower costs with
higher quality and disinflation.
There is no comment on the
change in world conditions, on
the attitude towards a possible
slump or on the danger of unem-
ployment. No suggestion is
made that Government expendi-
ture might be reduced, that the
National Health snowball might
be put on an actuarial basis, or
that lower taxation might prove
to be a valuable incentive to-
wards harder work.
The inference is that we shall
carry on as we did last year—be-
cause we did so last year. Of
constructive planning there is no
evidence.
Playwright— or Dramatist?
Terence Rattigan’s excursion
into historical tragedy (“Adven-
ture Story,” St. James’s Theatre)
has had a mixed reception.
Acknowledging his courage,
some of the critics suggest that
he is unwise to try to succeed
where Racine failed —in tackling
the life and character of Alex-
ander the Great. The cobbler,
they say, should stick to his last,
which, with Rattigan, is light
comedy.
He has been compared to Sul-
livan, who would have preferred
his fame to be associated with
his serious works; to Sheridan,
a reluctant playwright who
sought Cabinet rank in politics ;
and to Conan Doyle, who
fancied himself as a historical
novelist. But there is a vital
difference. These three self-con-
fessed misfits had one thing in
common: they belittled their
surer talents. Sullivan, who was
knighted for his services to
serious music, hated being inci-
dental to Gilbert; Sheridan, with
the “poor player’s son” of his
Harrow schooldays still echoing
in his mind, looked upon the
theatre as rather disreputable ;
and Conan Doyle was as thank-
ful to send Sherlock Holmes
hurtling to his death as he was
later reluctant to bring him back
to life.
Rattigan has no such com-
plex. He is, in all theatrical
aspects, a painstaking and con-
scientious craftsman who, unlike
his near-rival, Priestley, keeps at
very close terms with his
medium. While a youth he
sought to make a living out of
the writing of plays and, what is
more, succeeded. Still under 40,
he has had successes running in
the West End for 12 years. And,
unlike at least one distinguished
contemporary whose plays skim
merrily but so very, very much
over the surface, he reads
deeply.
Whatever comparisons may be
made with other days, he is in-
contestably Britain’s leading
playwright and has a fair claim
to be called a dramatist. It may
be that the craftsman’s conscious
devotion to his tools has some-
what Obscured his dramatic
vision, but there’s plenty of time
yet for him to go a good way
further. As he’s farsighted
enough to wideif, instead of
narrow, his field he may even
help to restore the English
theatre to its past glories.


♦
FIRST IN 1888...
FIRST TO-DAY!
NO OTHER BATTERY
CAN MATCH EXIDE'S
61 YEARS' EXPERIENCE
BHDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA FTY, LTD,, 44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
Ĵ
XA »0,2S
PERSONAL ITEMS
Peace didn’t end his acquaintance with
the jungle for Captain W. J. W. Walne,
one-time instructor at the School of
Physical Training at. Frankston (Vic.). A
member of the Z Force during the
Pacific war, he was demobbed in Aus-
tralia, but promptly returned to Borneo,
where he was given command of the
Armed Constabulary, composed of
Muruts, Dusuns, Malays and Dyaks,
many of whose fathers or grandfathers
were headhunters. His men, trans-
ferred to Malaya to fight banditry in the
jungle between Johore and Pahang,
recently spent 32 days as a ferret-force in
the dense forest of the Segamat region,
where their food had to be dropped to
them. When out with his detachment he
is so completely disguised as a native that
his family wouldn’j; know him. Under
20 when he started jungle-fighting, he is
now a tough 25.
Cleaver E. Bunton, Albury’s Mayor, is
a tall, well-built person, as is natural
in one who was a prominent Australian
Rules player in his time (his brother was
Melbourne’s “best and fairest”) and an
energetic talker, as behoves a mayor.
Most of Bunion’s conversation concerns
Albury, with which he has been intimately
associated most of his life. Educated
there in a general sense and from there
by post in accountancy, he was first
elected to aldermanic office at 22, and
has seen the place grow into a city with
clothing factories and woollen mills to
Supplement the district’s rich reserve of
sheep, wool and dairying. The mayor
is tart on the subject of country-killing,
for which he considers Albury, with its
reserves on both sides of the border and
its position in relation to Sydney and
Melbourne markets, a natural centre.
This is his fourth term in office, and he is
especially proud of his council’s rural
electrification scheme, which covers 120
square miles, and takes power as far
afield as Howlong, Bungowannah and
Jindera, with extensions in progress to
Gerogery and Wymaih.
Among a batch of 25 new Fellows of
the Royal Society are two from this part
of the world—one from Sydney ; one
fr'om Adelaide. Keith Bullen, professor
of Applied Maths at Sydney Uni., was
born in Auckland and holds degrees of
the Dominion University, Melbourne and
Cambridge. His pet subject is seismology,
and what he doesn’t know about the
abdominal rumblings of the earth isn’t
known to anyone else. Hedley Marston,
chief of the Biochemistry and General
Nutrition division of the C.5.1.R., was
born at Bordertown (S.A.) 49 years ago
and, like Bullen, finished his education at
Cambridge, going there from Adelaide
’Varsity. His fellowship is in recognition
of his researches into nutrition and wool-
growth in Merinos.
Retired from the pilot service in Fre-
mantle, one year short of a half-century
in sail and steam. Captain E. J. Court-
hope. Born in Perth, he served his apr
prenticeship in Liverpool barques trading
to the west coast of South America,
switched to steam and put in some years
on the Fremantle-to-Singapore run. In
World War I he joined the Royal Navy,
and served in the Dover Patrol and in
Grand Fleet minesweepers. Back on the
Westralian coast again he became skipper
of Minderoo, and was later associated
with the Cossack Lightering Company.
Ho joined the Fremantle pilot service just
over 20 years ago.
Arthur Lang Campbell, found dead in
his study at Adelaide University recently,
had most unusual qualifications for a Pro-
fessor of Law —he had occupied the
Bonython chair in Law in Adelaide since
1926. At Sydney Uni. he carried off a
swag of prizes and medals for languages
and mathematics, took first-class honors
in mechanical and electrical engineering
and graduated in Arts and Engineering
before deciding to make the law his
career. Called to the N.S.W. Bar in 1914,
he became vice-principal of St. Andrew’s
College, Sydney, the following year. In
two wars he was engaged on censorship
duties; in the second as District Censor
first in South Australia and, from 1941,
in N. S. Wales. Back in 1922 he attended
the League of Nations Assembly in
Geneva as secretary to Justice Rich,
whose associate he had been before being
called to the Bar, Campbell had a de-
lightful personality, loved companionship
and was a rare judge of good food and
wine. Bowral-born, he was 59.
G. G. Jobbins, the strong-faced chair-
man of Victorian State Electricity Com-
mission for 12 years—a record for the
commission—is due for retirement. Born
in Victoria 71 years ago, he has been
associated with the supply of electric
juice to the State since 1895, and has been
chief actor in most of the vicissitudes of
the industry. He joined the Melbourne
Electric Supply Co. in 1900, became resi-
dent engineer of the Geelong undertaking
in 1904, and was manager of the private
companies running the trams and electric
light of Geelong and Melbourne when the
Government took them over. When John
Monash died after putting the vast Yal-
lourn enterprise into its stride Jobbins
became engineer and manager. His reign
as chairman covers the period of Yal-
lourn’s greatest expansion, which ushered
in the era of further extension with the
huge hydroelectric project at Kiewa. He
leaves the S.E.C. just as it is on the eve of
developments that will double its pro-
duction and make Victoria largely inde-
pendent of N.S.W. coal.
From Captain Gerald S. Doorly;
I cannot claim to be the oldest surviving
member of any Polar expedition (B. 23/3/’49).
On December 30, 1948, Engineer Vice-Admiral
Sir Reginald Skelton, who is the oldest surviving
member of Captain Scott’s 1901-04 expedition,
opened an Antarctic exhibition on board the
Discovery, which is now moored on the
Thames, near the Temple station. I believe
Captain Michael Barne, R.N., is also still on
deck. He was the Second Executive Officer
with Scott in the Discovery, 1901-04, and
being possibly my senior in age, takes “second-
on-turn,” though I’ve not heard of him since
World War 11. About four years ago I was
speaking on the “Fifty and Over” programme
of 3UZ, Melbourne, when a phone-call came
from one Hare, living in Malvern. As far as
I can recollect Hare joined the Discovery in
New Zealand in December, 1901, and returned
from the Antarctic in the Morning in March,
1903. Hare had had a remarkable experience.
Soon after the Discovery reached winter
quarters in McMurdo Sound, he was over-
whelmed in a blizzard near the slopes of Castle
Rock. One of the party, Seaman Vince, lost
his life, and Hare, who had also been given up
as lost, suddenly appeared descending from the
icy heights, exhausted after being unconscious
for 36 hours. He had slept coiled up like one
of the dogs under heavy snowdrift, and escaped
even frostbite. Admiral Lord Mountevans was
Second-Officer of the Morning—l9o2-04—but
as he is one year my junior I claim to be “third-
on-turn” of the Discovery expedition.
Lieutenant-General C. H. Simpson,
here presented by his 1914 war-time
cobber Mcßeath, was in 1910 a young
scoutmaster whose troop was inspected
by Lieutenant Tom Blarney, an ex-
schoolmaster recently gone over to the
permanent forces. On the strength of
the scouts’ good showing, Blarney advised
young Simpson to take to soldiering, and
when the 1914 bugle blew he wasn’t
caught flatfooted. It wasn’t till 1918
that the two met again. Blarney, how
SIGNALS.
a high-ranking staff officer at A.I.F.
H.Q. in France, had cause to con-
gratulate a signals officer, who turned
out to be the ex-scoutmaster. Returning
from France, Simpson continued soldier-
ing, and in 1922 was the youngest lieut-
colonel in the Australian Army. When
War II broke he was appointed chief sigs.
officer of the Second A.1.F., and finished
up after .Libya, Greece, Crete, Syria and
Java with the whole responsibility of the
Pacific area. 111-health has now forced bis
retirement.
Flight Lieutenant Anthony Fisher Burcher,
D.F.M., only survivor of the eight aircraft that
crashed during the raid on the Mohne and Eder
dams, was already the sole survivor from a crash
during the preparation for that show. Sydney-
born, he enlisted in the R.A.A.F. in 1939 when
he was 17, trained in Canada and went to 106
Squadron, commanded by Wing-Commander
Guy Gibson. With Bomber Command, he was
over Italy, Poland, Germany, France and sowed
mines in the Baltic; he was in the first
Lancaster daylight raid and the first 1000-
bomber raid on the Ruhr. Burcher was next
BOMBS.
posted to 617 Special Duties Squadron, a top
secret show of which Gibson had taken com-
mand. The secrecy was of such a nature that
despite intensive training, most of the crews
did not know their objective until they were
briefed to be over the target at midnight.
Burcher was in the rear turret of No. 2 aircraft
skippered by Flight-lieutenant Hopgood. On
the way out Gibson’s aircraft was caught by
searchlights and Hopgood stopped to shoot up
the lights—his navigator was killed and Burcher
was wounded. Over the target, which had to
be attacked from the exact height of 60ft.,
Gibson went in first, delivered his bomb and
then circled as “master of ceremonies” to direct
the other aircraft. Hopgood was next in. As
they made their run the aircraft was raked
along the belly by Bofors fire which killed or
wounded the bomb-aimer; their bomb overshot
the dam and hit the power house, the aircraft
was caught in the blast and two engines were
knocked out. Hopgood ordered his crew to
prepare to bail out, and Burcher left his turret
to fix his parachute almost as the aircraft blew
up. The next thing he knew he was op the
ground, from where he saw the dam begin to
go after the fifth aircraft had bombed it. With
a broken back, he managed to hide-up for
three days until a 16-year-old of the fjlitler
Youth Movement jammed a revolver in his back
and took him in. The Germans being short of
plaster of Paris, his back was set in cement;
he was third-degreed by the Gestapo and, later,
force-marched 200 miles away from the advanc-
ing Russiafts, and then marched again away
from the Allies advancing from the west. He
was finally liberated at Lubeck, returned home
to Sydney, married and is now on flying duties
with No. 11 Squadron Catalinas at Rathmines.
Another Victorian singer to make good
in England, tenor William Herbert. His
recent appearances include four at the
Albert Hall, and his future bookings give
him four more there as well as the
leading roles in four of the greatest choral
works ever written—the B Minor Mass,
Bach’s “St Matthew’s Passion,” the
“Messiah” and the Beethoven Mass in B.
A singing engagement every night for the
next two months, and! a series of concerts
with the Liverpool Philharmonic, suggest
that his energy is no less than when he
was in Melbourne, where he was
accounted the most indefatigable singer in
local history. A pupil of Dr. Floyd, who
regarded him as the greatest tenor Aus-
tralia has produced, Herbert was trained
in St. Paul’s Cathedral choir. Another
Melbourne tenor, John Lanigan, is billed
to sing at the Stoll Theatre with the New
London Opera in “Falstaff” and “Don
Pasquale.”
A stocky dynamo in collar-and-tie who
works as if he owns the patent
rights of Time, L. G. Roth, of Tum-
barumba (N.S.W.), is a storekeeper who
is interested in pasture-improvement,
water-conservation and just about every-
thing connected with Upper Murray
development. Sprung from a Mudgee
orchardist family, he left school and
orchard early and served his apprentice-
ship in the retail trade ; went to Turn-
barumba 21 years ago and sprang into
business and public affairs, turning the
takings of a general store from about
£BOOO a year into something nearer
£BO,OOO, and becoming chairman of the
Chamber of Commerce, president of the
show committee and a member of the
Murray Valley Regional Committee.
Tackling pasture-improvement with the
same energy, he now has a know-
ledge of the subject rivalling that of an
Agr.Sc. graduate. Roth speaks with
authority on control of St. John’s Wort
by pasture-improvement, grazing of
British breeds of black-faced sheep, and
on the Snowy River diversion scheme —
he has done a spot of mountain explor-
ing. In the war he took a clerk’s job with
the Department of Commerce and finished
up Deputy-Controller of Defence Food-
stuffs.
C. H. Peters, for years before his retire-
ment from Robertson and Mullens the
best-known bookseller in Melbourne, was
paid a neat compliment the other day
when the Australian Booksellers’ Associa-
tion made him president for two minutes.
As senior vice-president he was next in
line for the post, but for health reasons
he was forced to decline the honor. He
was therefore given the two-minute
term and became immediate past-
president.
Latest recruit to the ranks of Adelaide
S.Ms., Don Williams as a youth won a
Government bursary, which extended into
a Stow Prize, B.A. with honors in classics
and the David Murray scholarship at
Adelaide Uni., where he later graduated
in law. He was called to the bar in 1936
and joined the Crown Solicitor’s office
three years later.
Harold Rabling, managing-director of
Vacuum Oil, collected a rare distinction
in Melbourne recently. The King’s
Medal, for “service in the cause of free-
dom,” was specially struck in 1945 for
civilians whose war assistance was
rendered in countries other than those of
the British Empire. Appointed a director
of Vacuum resident in New York in
1938, Rabling took over the chairman-
ship of the Anzac War Relief Fund
there between 1942-45, and his services
therein brought him the award. He
hails from Chines, Victoria.
Passed on in Melbourne, at 58, Alfred
Vernon Galbraith, chairman of the Vic-
torian Forests Commission, who did more
than any other individual to make Vic-
torians tree-conscious and to give the
State a definite forest policy. He
made forestry education a major func-
tion, and the prestige of the school at
Creswick where forest-officers are trained
was due to his influence, as was the
forestry-degree course at the University
of Melbourne. A very likeable, approach-
able man, he spent the last few years in
building up a modern equipment for
fighting bushfires. Because of an extra-
ordinary succession of fireless summers
the organisation is still to be tested. Gal-
braith was bora in Geelong, and was a
Digger of World War I.
Into the Silence:
In Wellington (M.L.) at 76, Stanley Merlin,
retired postal clerk who was once a major-
general on the general military staff of the Tsar
and Governor of Eastern Siberia in the days
of Royal Russia.
In Brisbane, at 77, Ernest John Shaw, well-
known grazier, a former president of the
Queensland Bowlers’ Association and for many
years Chief Scout for Queensland, Properties
with which he was associated at one time or
another included Highlands, Coominglah,
Walloon and Takilberan. Until last year he
was president of the Royal National Association.
In Sydney, at 80, Edgar (“Gar”) J. Matthews,
Chief Government Surveyor and Magistrate in
New Guinea at the beginning of the century
and for many years before and after that a
surveyor in Queensland. Late in life he estab-
lished an estate agency in a Sydney suburb and
was in harness until shortly before his death.
His father was a one-time Archdeacon of Bris-
bane.
At Geelong, at 73, Canon Alfred Wheeler,
former vicar of All Saints’, Geelong, and one of
Australia’s most sung and prolific composers.
His works cover everything from cantatas,
anthems, part-songs, childrens’ cantatas to
patriotic ditties. His “He Was Despised is
sung by St. Paul’s Cathedral choir every Easter.
In Brisbane, at 54, Stanley Wooldridge Bird,
a pioneer of commercial aviation in Australia.
An Oxford man, he came to this country in
1919, bringing with him five planes, with which
he started the first passenger service in Queens-
land. He gave up flying in 1924, but assisted
in training air-crews during the war.


Women’s Letters
From Sydney
The Gpvernor, Lieut.-General North-
cott, and Mrs. Northcott will be present
and will receive the debs, at the University
Settlement Ball at the University on
Friday. Mrs. Macdonald Holmes is
chairman of the ball committee and Mrs.
W. D. Hull will present the debs.
In perfect agreement with the clear-
cut dignity of Beethoven was the frock
worn by Hephzibah Menuhin at her
Town Hall concert last week. It was
of soft black crepe, long and slimly-cut.
The V-necked bodice had a deep-pleated
peplum, its one ornamentation the jet
girdle outlining the waist, which ended in
a large butterfly bow of black satin. In
contrast, Hephzibah’s simply-dressed fair
hair was bright under the strong platform
lights. Associate artist was violinist
Ernest Llewellyn, tall and grave-looking.
Theirs was a fine musical partnership. A
touch of home was given by Hephzibah’s
husband Lindsay Nicholas turning the
pages of her music for her, while in the
audience Mrs, Llewellyn listened raptly
in a frock of gold-spotted marquisette.
The Town Hall, though not crowded,
was comfortably-filled. One of the most
attractive listeners was Mrs. Clement
Chapman, her coral-red frock (a Dublin
purchase) embroidered with gold motifs ;
a fascinating finish was her tiny ermine
stole and muff. With Mrs. Chapman was
Mrs. William Adams, who wore a full-
skirted frock of dove-grey chiffons. The
Kelso King lady was there. Claude
Plowman’s lady came in a suit of soft
grey tweed; with this she wore a match-
ing beret. . Adelaide visitor Lisbeth Cor-
nell was one of the applauders ; and, from
Melbourne, Dorothy Wilbey, on her way
to Brisbane to take up her new duties
with the A.B.C. Other well-known
music-lovers noted were Mrs. Hope Gib-
son, Mrs. McCartney, and Barbara Ben-
nett.
Eva Benson, one of Australia’s most
gifted sculptors, who had won recogni-
tion of her work in England and in
France, as well as in her native land,
died recently in Mosman after a long
and painful illness. Among her most
famed works are a statuette of Perse-
phone, which was exhibited at the Royal
Academy, London, and won the
Academy’s highest award, two A’s; a
statuette of Psyche, which is in our own
National Gallery, and a bust of Sir Win-
throp Hackett, which is in the Perth
Public Library. This was the first piece
of her work accepted by the Royal
Academy.
Persephone was exhibited twice at the
Royal Academy, in the Paris Salon and
at every important art exhibition in the
British Isles, and was afterwards bought
by the president of the Royal Institute
of Fine Arts in Glasgow. Psyche was
also exhibited at the Royal Academy
and won high honors. Later, at the
special invitation of the Walker Art Gal-
lery, this statuette was exhibited at their
annual show at Liverpool. The late
William Macleod, of The Bulletin, ex-
pressed the keenest admiration of this
work, and would have bought it had the
National Gallery not done so.
Miss Benson studied at the Perth Tech-
nical College with James Linton, and later
she entered for, and won, the highest art
prize in Western Australia, the Winthrop
Hackett Art Prize. In Sydney, patrons
of the Prince Edward Theatre can see
this artist’s beautiful work in the span-
drels above the proscenium arch. Sydney
dancers of a former generation remember
her exquisite modelling of the story of
Cinderella in the vestibule of the old
Ambassadors.
Forty yards around the hem is Jocelyn
Cuttle’s wedding-frock, but the effect is
one of drifting grace, for the fabric is
marquisette (off-white in tone), and you
know the thistledown lightness of that.
The marquisette is mounted on white
moire taffeta. The frock is made with a
round neckline and a small tight-fitting
bodice. There is also =a cascade of white
tulle that flows from a coronet of pearls
over the frock’s long train. The bride’s
principal ornament is a string of heir-
loom pearls, a gift of the bridegroom’s
parents, the A, J. Browns of the Oaks,
Camden. Three girl-friends will attend
the bride, and with their pale-primrose
marquisette over taffeta frocks they will
wear halo hats. The ’groom, Paul Chad-
wick Brown, and his entourage will wear
their glossiest tailorings to offset this
finery. Vows will be exchanged on
Friday evening at St. Mark’s, Darling
Point, and later the bride’s parents, the
John Cuttles, will receive the guests at
the Australian Golf Club. Hydrangea-
blue satin and purple orchids will be
worn by the bride’s mother.
A copy of Debrett and a road-map
that wanders away back into the begin-
nings of England were almost essential
for the members of the Society of Women
Writers last week when they entertained
Lady Dorothy Hope-Morley, whose
ancestry is studded with earls and dukes
and that John Hampden of Buckingham-
shire who stood up to Charles I on the
matter of the ship-tax. The subject of the
guest’s discourse was the F.A.N.N.1.E.5.,
that famed women’s war effort. .Vice-
president, Mrs. Mary Gaynor, received
the guest and introduced her in a graceful
little speech, and Mrs. Florence Taylor,
also a vice-president, made the speech in
reply. Over 50 attended this, the society’s
first 1949 luncheon, held at the Feminist
Club.
Artist Theo Cowan painted a special
menu showing the platypus among the
sedges of a river bank. Lady Dorothy
is a platypus enthusiast.
Don’t forget the mannequin parade this
afternoon. This will take place at Princes,
and is in aid of the Food for Babies Fund.
From Norton Trevaire’s studio comes
this picture of Margaret Newland, a
member of the Fund’s younger group, and
an enthusiastic all-the-year-round-worker
for the cause.
The bells of St. Clement Church, Mos-
man, clashed and pealed joyously last
week when Denva Howard and Frederick
Leonard were married by the Ven. Arch-
deacon Hulme-Moir. The bride’s frock
of white satin had a heart-shaped neck-
line and tiny sleeves. With this she wore
an embroidered tulle veil which billowed
over the dress to the hemline. Dahlia-
pink organza frocks, long and full, were
worn by ’maids Betty Lawrence and Rae
Howard. R. G. Pillans was best man
and Alan Leonard groomsman. The
bride, bridegroom, bridesmaid and best
man are all chemists —the ’groom him-
self won the Elliott Prize for the best pass
in Pharmacy of his year. The bride is
the elder daughter of the G. J. Howards
of Mosman ; the bridegroom is the eldest
son of the F. J. Leonards, of Lane Cove.
An official dinner was given by Mrs.
Bertie Kelly in honor of the newly-arrived
Italian Minister Dr. Guilio del Balzo and
his wife. This took place in a private
room of the Royal Sydney Golf Club.
The table was .decorated with pink
flowers and pink candles in silver candel-
abras. Among the guests were Belgium’s
Minister Paul Verstaeten, Norway’s
Minister L. J, Jorstad and Mrs. Jorstad,
Greece’s Consul-General Vrisakis and
Mrs. Vrisakis, France’s Consul-General
De la Croix, and Mrs. De la Croix and
Chief Justice Jordan and his wife.
The dream of Australian composer
Alfred Hill of peace coming to the world
on wings of song was aptly expressed by
this famous music-maker at the musicale
arranged by the women’s section of the
Australian-American Movement, and the
200 listeners gathered in the Australia
Hotel warmly applauded the sentiment.
The music of the night was entirely by
American and Australian composers.
Guests-of-honor were U.S. Consul-
General Orsen Nielsen, and his wife and
Alfred and his wife. They were received
by the president, Mrs. Florence Taylor,
whose black chiffons were beautifully
embroidered in gold sequin sprays. The
flowers i decorate the room, superb
dahlias gh wing with autumn, were
brought from Werrington Park, the
country home of the Allen Williams.
Elizabeth Northcott, who was to have
been there, was absent through a bad
cold, and it was unanimously agreed that
a letter telling her how she was missed
should be sent to her.
Tom L. Mills sends greetings from New
Zealand to Australian journalist friends.
Daughter Marjorie brought these with
her when she came over for a three-
months’ visit to Sydney. Marjorie is stay-
ing with Helen and Ailsa Soutar at Birrell-
street, Bondi. David Soutar and Tom
were great friends in the days when
Soutar’s cats Were a looked-for event in
The Bulletin pages and Mr. Mills’s
articles appeared in the “Red Page.”
Marjorie is an artist, and has a studio in
Lambton Quay, Wellington, N.Z., where
her artistic tapestry work is much ad-
mired. She is such an artist in stitchery
that by the invitation of the committee
she is a regular exhibitor of her petit-
point work with the N-Z. Academy of
Fine Arts.
From Melbourne
A torrential downpour washed out the
traditional garden-party which was to
have been held after the opening of the
37th State Parliament, tea being sipped
instead in the Parliamentary dining-rooms.
The Lieut.-Governor’s lady greeted the
guests in a tailored navy coat, hyacinth-
blue frock and flower-clustered, off-the-
face navy hat. The wife of Legislative
Council president Eager teamed an aqua-
blue jacket-suit and large black hat which
had a swirl of feathers set at the front.
Mrs. T. T. Hollway, wife of the Premier,
wore with her frock and hip-length
jacket of delphinium-blue wool a small
brown cloche hat trimmed with a cluster
of blue feathers. The Speaker’s wife,
Mrs. T, K. Maltby, covered her tobacco-
brown woollen frock with an almond-
green coat; her matching green hat was
crowned with green and brown ostrich-
feathers.
With her black tailored coat Mrs. W.
Kent Hughes wore a greige felt beret
highlighted with a bronze and sequin
ornament. Mrs. Trevor Oldham’s
pewter-grey frock had a hat to match.
Mrs. A. Dennett, in a moss-green suit
and black hat, was accompanied by her
daughter Diana, whose grey suit was
crowned with a scarlet-corded velvet
beret. Mrs. A. G. Warner’s mushroom-
toned duvetyn coat was worn with a
feather-trimmed matching hat. Mrs. W.
Leggett’s black tailored suit and silver-
fox furs were worn with a cyclamen silk
straw hat trimmed with black satin
ribbon. To her dove-grey suit Mrs. Mc-
Donald, wife of the Country-party leader,
added a platter felt hat in the same shade.
Mrs. P. L. Coleman’s frock was of rust-
spotted grey silk. Flame-red in worsteds
and cloche hat lent a warm glow to Mrs.
Gordon Snow. With her was Mrs. John
Heinze, in beige suit and small matching
feather-mounted hat. The small hat worn
by Mrs. L. J. McConnan with her aqua-
blue ensemble flew brown feathers. Mrs,
T, J. Ryan’s silver-grey outfit carried a
matching hat banded with white grosgrain
ribbon.
Mrs. W. H. McKechnie, subject of this
John Warlow study, divides her busy time
between book-publishing and her lovely
garden at Kallista. Wife of the deputy-
chairman of the Federal Board of the
Miss Australia Quest, Mrs. McKechnie
has been hostess recently to the winner,
Beryl James. A regular first-nighter and
elegant dresser, she prefers the country
to city life.
Members of the Victoria League in
Victoria are gratified at the result of the
gala picture-night they organised for their
Food-for-Britain Fund, and which was
held at the Village Theatre, Toorak. The
foyers were crowded, and the increas-
ingly popular sari adorned many women.
The Lieut.-Governor’s lady wore a wine-
toned lace gown with a matching velvet
jacket. Mrs. T. T. Hollway’s pastel-
patterned gown was covered with a beige
Canadian fox-fur cape. Mrs. Cairns
Officer’s dinner gown was of powder-blue
moire. Mrs. Marchant Penfold wore a
dusty-pink dinner gown. Anne Wilton,
Sue Annear, Barbara Grosser and
Barbara Murray Smith sold lucky pro-
grammes and sweets. Anne Bailey, one
of the ticket-secretaries, was in a formal
gown of white crepe, the bodice featuring
a halter neckline. Mrs. Eric Ross, an-
other ticket-secretary, had a matching
feather-spray on the bodice of her bronze-i
brown crepe dinner gown. Kay Hughes,-
president of the V.L.’s young contingent,!
wore a bouffant gown of black lace. Mrs.
lan Connell’s crepes were flame-red. Mrs.
Bruce Rose’s ballerina frock was of black
moire. Mrs, S. J. Fletcher, wife of the
U.S. Consul-General, added silver-foxes
to her blue-beaded black crepe dinner'
gown. Mrs. Tom Blarney’s bouffant black
net gown had a gold-thread pattern.
The engagement of Suzanne Holden,
third daughter of Mrs. Kenneth Guest
and the late Capt, L. H. Holden, M.C.,
A.F.C., to Nigel, son of Dr. H. Boyd
Graham, D. 5.0., and Mrs. Graham,
of Toorak, was celebrated with
a family party at Laughing Waters,
Eltham, the country home of the Kenneth
Guests. Suzanne is an old St. Catherine’s
girl. Her fiance, who was educated at
Scotch College, and is an inter-State ice-
hockey player, saw service overseas with
the A.I.F. Suzanne’s engagement-ring, a
nine-diamond cluster in a platinum set-
ting, has been in Nigel’s family for gene-
rations. Nigel and Suzanne are hoping
to marry before the end of the year.
Teen-agers had their own Easter
fashion-parade in the model salon at
George’s, with the accent on casual
clothes, with tartans and corduroy-velvet.
fashioning smart suits. Pedal-pushers of
Melton cord, which only the young can
wear successfully, had their place. One
striking model for formal wear was a
brilliant Chinese-red quilted-sdtin hip-
length jacket with a swinging back which
was worn over a black dinner-gown.
Bouffant black tulle fashioned another
gown, with a matching tulle stole cover-
ing the bare shoulders of the mannequin.
A Titian-haired mannequin stole the show
with a frothy brown tulle gown worn over
an apple-green underskirt; bodice and
shoulder-straps were adorned with copper
sequins ; a small tulle cap, copper sequins
on the rolled brim, completed the outfit.
An aqua-blue satin gown with one'
shoulder bare had the bodice draped
across the front, to finish in a huge bow
on the left shoulder. Parma-violet elbow-
length gloves set off a pale-mauve brocade
gown. Cyclamen and green roses con-
trasted a lime-green tulle gown, which
had a wide, spreading skirt.
In place of the usual official luncheon
Mrs, Norman Robinson, wife of the
chairman of the V.A.T.C., entertained
about 20 women journalists for luncheon
and afternoon-tea at the Caulfield meet-
ing. Mrs. Robinson added to her navy
ensemble an olive-green cloche hat. Mrs.
Ken McLean’s navy outfit was topped
by a plum-toned felt hat trimmed with
navy feather-mounts. Among the smartest
racegoers was Mrs. M. Morris, whose
black jacket-suit was worn with a black
hat which had a pastel-pink grosgrain
brim and was trimmed with black quills.
Her daughter Olwyn combined a lemon-
yellow wool-suit and a hat in a deeper
lime tone and trimmed with matching
flowers. The grey suit worn by Mrs.
H, R. Way, wife of the V.A.T.C. secre-
tary, had a white pencil stripe. Mrs.
J. S. Disney, in a navy ensemble and
matching felt turban, was accompanied
by the Wales lady, her suit being of
black wool. Mrs. Alec Hunter’s mignon-
ette-green angora frock and hip-length
jacket were worn with a large-brimmed
matching hat trimmed with brown and
green feathers. a Mrs. Fred Dennett’s
black hat featured a pheasant spread
across the crown.
Two .young girls, Patric and Yvonne
Whittam, showed initiative in sponsoring
a gay and interesting hat show in the
Women’s Services clubrooms, and gave
the proceeds to the funds of the club.
Many of the models bore the feather at
the masthead, while little formal hats
were flower-laden. A broad band of
lime-green feathers was set across the
brim of a black felt cloche ; a rust-toned
felt which showed a beige brim had
smooth goose-feathers hugging the cheek
at one side. For the first time in the
many autumn and winter parades emu
feathers were seen ; they were used to
adorn a brilliant-red model with an up-
turned brim. One turquoise-blue velvet
cloche had as trimming pink roses and
lily-of-the-valley. Sequins were dotted
over the crown of one attractive hat,
while jet beads forming roses highlighted
another. The few models designed for
the business-girl combined smartness and
utility.
Mrs. Lionel Newton was given a
luncheon-party at the Australia by Mrs.
Bertie Hotchkiss prior to her departure
for South Africa with her husband in the
Gothic. Mrs. Newton wore a clerical-
grey tailored suit and white snood. The
hostess’s tailored black suit was garnished
with sable furs. Mrs. Bill McGowan’s
white velvet swathed beret was trimmed
with a white feather cockade. Black tulle
trimmed the hat worn by Mrs. Harry
Scott with her black frock. Mrs. Gordon
Coulter’s slate-blue suit gained added
distinction from the deep-red velvet hat
trimmed with black coq feathers. Mrs.
Ken Hooper finished her black frock with
a large bow of black taffeta ribbon.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ELLA AMELIA WOODROFF late of
21 Sylvania Road Sutherland. —TAKE
NOTICE that SIDNEY WILLIAM WOOD-
ROFP having filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1511 of 1931 on the grounds of de-
sertion has now filed a discretion state-
ment If you wish to defend the Peti-
tion as amended you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney on or before
the 13th day of May 1949 A copy of the
petition may be had without charge from
E. A. HANCOCK, Solicitor, 225 Forest
Road, Hurstville. — (1.5.) J. DOUGHAN,
Acting Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO KATHLEEN THORA ENGLAND.—
TAKE NOTICE that RICHARD ALBERT
ENGLAND at the hearing of his Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 4281 of 1947 will
ask for the exercise of the Court’s dis-
cretion in his favor under Section 19 (2)
(a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899
and you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the Second day of May 1949
and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from DAWSON & HERFORD, Soli-
citors, 104 Hunter Street, Sydney.— (l.s.)
J. DOUGHAN, Acting Registrar in
Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO JOHN FRANCIS PEARCE formerly
of Marrickville. —TAKE NOTICE that
VALMA JOAN PEARCE has filed a peti-
tion for Divorce No. 4457 of 1948 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 20th day of
June 1949 and obtain a copy of the peti-
tion free of charge from A. ALISTER
JOHNSON & McDonald, Solicitors, of
17 Bolton Street, Newcastle, or JOHN
CORCORAN & CO., Solicitors, Assembly
Hall, 2 York Street, Sydney.— (l.s.) J.
DOUGHAN, Acting Registrar in Divorce.
THE SERVICE MAN
What Are
Communism's Plans?
“Ek Dum”; Mr. Winston
Churchill’s statement that the
Western world did not have un-
limited time to achieve a settle-
ment with Russia, though he did
not believe war was inevitable, is
justified by events, except, per-
haps, for the last qualification.
Fighting war is not necessarily
inevitable, but the preparation
for it is in being, as the Soviet
Union recognises if nobody else
does. It exists in Australia, as
anybody who is familiar with
the detail of Russia’s orders to
our Fifth Column knows.
There has been an unchanged
leadership of the Communist
party since 1930, except for
slight reshuffles of positions be-
tween Sharkey, Miles and
Dixon. And an unswerving
policy began with the issue in
Moscow in October, 1929, of
orders by the Executive Com-
mittee of the Comintern, fol-
lowed by other orders which
were relayed to the faithful
through the Ninth Congress of
the Australian Communist party
early in 1930.
Those orders were, in brief, to
Red-ant the community from the
bottom up with a view to taking
advantage of a suitable situation
for insurrection.
The nature of the work which
these people have been doing
ever since is clear from the in-
structions issued by their Dis-
trict Committee No. 1 in N. S.
Wales at that time, which make
it monstrous that they should
be allowed to continue to exist
as a party and to be accorded
deferentially - granted facilities
by the Australian Broadcasting
Commission. This is all the more
so because it is clear from the
instructions issued that bodies
which normally declare emphati-
cally that they have no connec-
tion with the Communist party
are actually Communist-formed
organisations supervised by the
Communist party.
The Plan Gullined
The Ninth Conference
declarations—the first issued
under the Sharkey-Miles-Dixon
regime—laid down the whole
technique for turning any war
that might come along into a
revolution, and in the meantime
for using the fear of war to or-
ganise along lines set out in
organisational circulars:
As there cannot be a successful
revolution without a revolutionary
organisation with cells in every fac-
tory and pit, etc., the immediate task
of the Communist party is organisa-
tion so that our ideological influence
and our leadership are accepted in the
hour of crisis The chemical indus-
tries, which are the basis of the most
terrible war methods, the metal indus-
tries which produce arms and all sorts
of equipment from trousers buttons
to modern artillery; the food indus-
tries without which no army can
move —must all be penetrated and
organised on the basis of shop and
factory committees. This is the basic
task of the Party in conducting the
struggle against capitalist encroach-
ments, wage reductions, increased
hours, etc., and this task is doubly
necessary in view of the war danger.
Whenever possible mass demon-
strations should be organised against
imperialism and pacifism, such as
Anzac Day, Armistice Day, August
4, etc. These demonstrations should
be distinguished by their international
character and directly opposed to the
Chauvinistic idea of such as the
White Australia policy.
Thus all the advocacy of higher
wages and shorter hours in
which the Communist party has
since indulged under the
Sharkey - Miles - Dixon control,
Sharkey being most of the time
the Australian representative
member on the Comintern
Executive, has been directed to-
wards a revolutionary purpose,
which was summed up in para-
graph four of the Ninth Con-
gress manifesto:
When war comes the workers must
be prepared, not to boycott war by
refusal to render service or by in-
action or by pacifist means, but to
take advantage of the opportunity
to acquire arms and turn them to
their own account. The workers
alone can end war by smashing for
all time the present cause of war —
capitalism.
And all this was based on
specific instructions from the
Comintern, as can be proved to
the hilt from verbatim orders as
sent out by Moscow by cable
and letter—the letters going into
minute detail as to how the
party was to organise, what its
procedures and objectives were
to be and even deciding for it
whether it should purge its mem-
bership.
Such is the plan of the “politi-
cal philosophy” which Mr.
Chifley regards as harmless and
whose convicted agents he feels
it is safe to allow to roam
at will inside Commonwealth
scientific defence organisations.
“Illegal” Operations
No. 1 District Committee of
the Australian C.P.’s circular
issued by the headquarters of the
party in Sydney in December,
1930, under the commands of
the present leaders, stated;
It cannot be too often repeated
that the factory nucleus is illegal;
that names of Party members must
not be kept anywhere our enemies
can get hold of them; and in record-
ing minutes, in discussion, etc.,
pseudonyms must be used, so that
in the event of the documents falling
into the hands of our enemies, real
names of Party members will not be
shown. Members of factory groups
must not be used to canvass the
houses in the districts in which they
work. When going to or from a
factory nucleus meeting, members
must not carry party documents or
anything that would prove to the
authorities in the event of an arrest
or raid, that the meeting is one of a
party nucleus. Notwithstanding these
protective measures we must not be
isolated from the masses, we must
break down the spirit of sectarian-
ism, whilst not in any way under-
estimating underground work.
Another document issued at the
same time gave instructions for
forming such bodies as the
Friends of the Soviet Union,
Unemployed Workers’ Move-
ment, Workers’ International Re-
lief, League Against Imperialism
and many more, and for getting
them affiliated with the A.L.P.
and also for establishing a
Workers’ Defence Corps which
it was stressed must be built into
a “gigantic mass organisation,”
particularly in the factories.
The objective of this move-
ment sponsored by Messrs.
Sharkey, Miles and Dixon was
clear from a letter published in
the “Workers’ Weekly” in 1929:
Berlin, 26/5/’2B.
To the Labor Volunteer Army,
Australia.
Comrades, —
Through Comrade Moxon we have
heard of your organisation and we
now send you the very heartiest of
fraternal greetings.
We look to you to build your
organisation and to be prepared to
stand up and protect the revolutionary
workers of all countries.
It is no idle boast to declare that
our organisation (the Rote Front
Bund) has played a big part in pre-
venting the Locarno and anti-Soviet
Bloc being operated up to date.
The Labor Volunteer Army must
assist us now and in the future.
Yours fraternally,
(Sgd.) Thaelmann,
Willy Leo.
Thaelmann was then head of
the Communist party in Ger-
many. Willy Leo was Comman-
der of the Berlin District of the
Rote Front Kampfer Bund.
The “Workers’ Weekly” an-
nounced that the document had
been “translated and delivered
to the ‘Workers’ Weekly’ for
publication by Comra.de Moxon,
Australian representative at the
recent anti-war demonstration
of the Red Front Class-war
Fighters of Germany (Rote
Front Kampfer Bund) in Berlin
during Whitsun.” The paper ex-
plained that “there are no less
than 300,000 organised and dis-
ciplined members of the R.F.B.
pledged to support the revolu-
tionary workers of the world
and especially the Workers’ Re-
public—Sovietß^ssiaJ’
Explosion in a
"Democracy."
“Ek Dum”; One more of the
new “democracies,” the vote of
which in U.N.O. is as good as
that of Britain, France, the
United States or the U.S.S.R.,
save for the veto, and just as
good as that of Australia or any
country which hasn’t the veto,
has suddenly erupted with a
large, loud bang.
Syria, in the wide world of
United Nations Organisations, is
a member of the Food and Agri-
cultural organisation, of the
United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organisa-
tion. And it has been one of
the non-permanent members of
the Security Council.
The area consists of a limited
coastal area which reminds one
of the N. S. Wales North Coast
in some respects and a large area
of desert about as uninhabited to
the naked eye as the land beyond
Birdsville (Q.). It is crisscrossed
with military roads, and the
Euphrates runs along its east
boundary between eroding banks
and past beehive villages.
There are no reliable current
vital statistics for Syria, which is
perhaps just as well, because even
when the French kept order the
region of the north towards the
Turkish border was one in which
travellers went revolver-on-wrist,
as they also did in some other
parts.
The view in most of the cities
of Syria for a large part of the
year, unless it has changed much
recently, consists of Syrians in
white nightshirts leaning against
walls, but shifting like sundials
with the shadow, Armenians
living off the Arabs, and Turks,
Circassians, Persians, Jews and
plain and fancy Levantines.
Finding itself dowered with
the power to raise something like
£12,000,000 a year in revenue, of
which about £3,000,000 was for
defence, Syria naturally decided
to join the other great Powers
of the Arab League in a nice,
friendly war over Palestine, the
“Army” consisting of perhaps
14,000 men.
The experience has not given
much of a fillip to the national
pride. It is to be presumed from
past experience that the Syrian
section of the forces did not get
beyond the first shady tree, the
Armenian section beyond the
first bargain, or a good many of
the Arabs beyond the first hen-
roost.
At any rate, the display of
martial ardor proved so disap-
pointing that last August the
President, Shukri Bey al-Kuwatli,
was asked to dissolve the Minis-
try of Jamal Mardam in order
that the Premier might form a
new one which would uphold
the prestige of the Grand Old
Flag—green, white and black
(horizontal), with three red stars
on a white stripe: the source
apparently of some of the colors
an much of the poster publicity
of Mr. Chifley’s latest war-loan
appeal.
This having failed to produce
startling victories, there was an-
other dissolution of the Ministry
in December, 1948, with the new
Premier, Khalad el-Azam, for-
merly Minister in Paris, appeal-
ing longingly to the patriotic
electors to stand behind him
while he formed a national
Government which would pursue
the war to “its essential objec-
tive, the liberation of Palestine,”
with uncompromising determina-
tion.
The only result seemed to be
that Syria disappeared off the
face of the earth so far as con-
temporary history went. But
last week it entered the field
again when its Commander-in-
Chief, Colonel Husni Zaim, sud-
denly proclaimed himself a dic-
tator, instituted martial law and
a curfew, swooped on Govern-
ment departments, and confined
to barracks every senior official,
including the President and the
Premier and all his Ministers.
Then he issued a proclamation
which would have done credit to
either Napoleon or Dr. Evatt:
Impelled by patriotic zeal, we have
been forced to overthrow the former
Government. We are not driven by
ambition, but only by the desire to
create a really democratic State.
Parliament was forthwith dis-
solved, and the Colonel-dictator
announced that sooner or later
he would hold elections probably
with a Ministry under the Emir
Ardel Arslan, who has already
been involved in the crisis of
December, when he failed to
form a national Government.
Meanwhile, talks with the
Israelis for an armistice will
be renewed (when the Israelis
agree), the French will be settled
with, the Colonel will consider
pipeline concessions to foreign
Powers. And Syria is reported
“calm” —that is, presumably,
still full of gentlemen in night-
gowns and Assyrian caps fol-
lowing the gently moving
shadows along the Syrian walls.
The spectacle of the demo-
cracies of U.N.O. which are
seeking to bring peace to the
world becomes less and less in-
spiring as the weeks go by.
Changes in Russia.
“Ek Dum”: Russian develop-
ments continue to produce un-
easiness in thoughtful quarters.
With the signing of the
Atlantic Pact impending, the
Soviet Union began to play its
old, soft game. It was made to
appear that at last there was
likely to be a retreat in Berlin.
The Russians became polite
overnight. The clouds of Yak
fighters which infest Berlin’s
approaches suddenly became
considerate, waggling their wings
in friendly salutation at the
Allied air traffic which has com-
pletely defeated the blockade,
discreetly scuttling out of the
way instead of swooping inso-
lently across the paths of the
transports.
Generally speaking, the idea
seemed to be to leave an impres-
sion that the fight was over and
that the Allies had won.
But behind the scenes there
was little Sign of retreat.
A Moscow note to the Atlan-
tic Powers officially declared
them aggressors and treaty-
breakers.
Helot nations of the U.S.S.R.
contrived their daily pin-prick.
Czechoslovakia drove out a
British official and arrested his
staff, acting as usual with an
insolent dishonesty. Two U.S,
soldiers, a.w.1., disappeared sud-
denly and turned up incom-
municado in a Czech jail.
They had been “tried” and
sentenced in secret for espion-
age. Whether they had ac-
cidentally strayed across the
border or had been whisked
across it none seemed to know.
On the face of the facts they had
gone spying on the Czechs in
full uniform so that every police-
man would know what they
were about. The United States
authorities v /e not allowed to
see them.
Russian sentries knocked
down a couple of British soldiers
in Vienna. One had inad-
vertently stepped inside a barrier
in front of the Imperial Hotel,
which is, or used to be, the
Hotel Australia of Vienna. After
kicking and striking them the
soldiers were left lying in the
gutter. There have now been
hundreds of such cases, but the
Socialist Government of Britain
takes these things in the neck.
On the other side of Russia
the Russian legation has been
withdrawn from Tehran after
an ominous quarrel. During the
week a Persian frontier-post was
attacked by Russian troops and
a Persian killed, two others taken
prisoner. The Russians have re-
fused to return their captives.
Irak at the same time was con-
sidering withdrawing its diplo-
matic representation at Moscow
because of Communist plotting
to overthrow the Iraki Govern-
ment,
Behind the irritation, com-
bined with apparent softening
of the overall Russian official
attitude, there has been a grim
atmosphere. Moscow Radio
continues to fulminate against
the British and some of the
Western nations in exactly the
same sort of language as it was
once accustomed to apply to
Hitler and Goring—the language
embodies the same charges as
were made against those
characters.
There is now little doubt
about the significance of the
changes in the Russian Army—
it is no longer officially called
the Red Army—which are so
much of a pattern with the
political changes that they can
mean only one thing: Russia is
going definitely on to a war foot-
ing.
The replacement of General
Bulganin by Marshal Vas-
silevsky tells its own story. Bul-
ganin was Mayor of Moscow
at the time of the German
drive. He became a general
overnight. His qualification for
high military command was very
much like Stalin’s, invented
after his appointment along with
the circumstantial evidence of it.
It is doubtful whether in reality
Stalin ever commanded more
than a platoon in active opera-
tions at any time.
Marshal Vassilevsky, however,
was a trained and finished
soldier with a reputation only
second to that of Marshal Tuka-
chevsky, who was quietly mur-
dered just before the outbreak
of World War 11. About the
end of last year, after having
held office as Chief-of-Staff
throughout the hard period of
the war, he was abruptly re-
placed by a certain General
Shtmenko, whose name was
virtually unknown to the mili-
tary world at large. He was of
the same breed as Bulganin.
The only thing really military
about him was his uniform. He
had been a senior security
policeman.
At the same time that he was
appointed, or a little after,
Major-General Shatilov, Deputy
Chief of the Army Political De-
partment, became a Lieutenant-
General, and a new Major-
General round whom everybody
walked warily appeared, a poli-
tician who had been Vice-Com-
missar for Defence, Shtsher-
bakov.
Various other Commissars be-
gan to parade with shoulder-
straps looking like constellations.
The new Chief-of-Staff had
been made a general only about
a quarter of an hour before his
appointment to office, and his
appointment was made under
Stalin’s own hand.
Now, only a few months after-
wards, the Russian defence
forces are being remilitarised. It
looks as if they have been sub-
jected to a political spring-clean-
ing or reorganisation. Or per-
haps the High Command was
merely being stood down to
allow it to understand that it
was not indispensable.
It may even have been that
the political command was a
cover for reorganisation or in-
spection by some of the many
high-ranking Germans in Rus-
sian hands.
Whatever the reason, there is
no doubt about one thing.
Russia is now on a war footing,
its field troops equipped, its in-
dustry geared up and all the re-
sources which it was possible to
cull from among German cap-
tives and German war factories
being applied to military de-
velopment*


THE ROYAL EASTER SHOW
The pat of the land.
v \. , 77
The Wheel op Empire will Always Revolve. .
Torchlight Tattoo Q™, )2. t 3 m R I3 t T Apc.il,,
MICiHT programme . 8-"2>o .
A UTTLE HORSE'PLAV.Q
The pride op the ring.
Bull DOGS'NG •
M
LIFE SAVIMQ DISPLAY.
on Easter Saturday s< Easter Monday
WIC.HTS,
Police display, musical R,»db , and physical o?'ll,


PERMANENCE .
EXPERIENCE... SECURITY
To protect the future of your family, look for
the fundamental qualifications of Permanence,
Experience and Security when selecting your
Executor and Trustee. Because it has these
important qualifications, the Permanent Trustee
Company has many advantages over the private
individual in matters of Estate administration.
X, The Permanent Trustee Company has
permanent existence. Its officers are always
available for 'consultation. The Company’s
guaranteed permanence ensures faithful
administration until the completion of the
Trust.
Since its incorporation 60 years ago, the
Company’s officers have accumulated a wealth
of experience in dealing with Estates of all
kinds. This accumulated experience is some*
thing no single individual can hope to possess.
The Company’s entire capital and assets—
exceeding £1,000,000 —are available for the
protection of Estates entrusted to its care.
Write for free booklet
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W. LID.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond, Chairman
F. H. Way, Vice-Chairman
Cecil H. Doyle
F. W. Hixson
Dr. G. M. Barron
J. R. Faviell
Manager:
N. L. Shaw
Asst. Manager:
C. N. P. Whittle
UNAFFECTED BY THE
PASSAGE OF TIME
H
m
m
PT.Wk.W
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
JET-PLANE FUTURE.
Anyone in search of a really
first-class nightmare—or maybe
two different nightmares tied to-
gether—might be recommended
to sample a “U.S. News and
World Report” article on jet-
plane developments in America,
and with it an uncomfortable
couple of columns by London
“Times’s” air - correspondent
lamenting a serious lag in the
same field in Britain.
The achievements particularly
featured in the one article and
lamented in the other were those
of jet-bombers. In jet-fighters,
it seems, Britain is not yet out
of the hunt:
“When the war ended Britain
enjoyed a long lead in jet-
fighters. In their class the twin-
engined Meteor and the single-
engine Vampire were superior to
types in service in any other air
force. More powerful engines
and other refinements have im-
proved their performances, and
they are still probably the best
—Boeing Airplane Co. (U.S.).
THE ST RAT DIET ( XB-47).
Speed: 10 miles a minute.
—Northrop Aircraft, Inc. (U.S.).
THE FLYING WING ( YB-49 ).
Range: More than 2000 miles.
all-round fighters in squadron
service in any country.”
One drawback i§ that “They
are, however, several years old,
and jet-fighters since developed
in foreign countries are setting
new standards in speed. The
world speed records established
by the Meteor in 1945 and 1946
have since been improved upon
several times by American air-
craft.”
The statement made by Lord
Pakenham, as Minister for Civil
Aviation, cabled on March 25,
might perhaps have been ac-
cepted by some as partly reassur-
ing, as far as Britain’s jet-
fighters go. He said that rapid
progress was being made in the
re-equipment of the R.A.F. with
jet machines, and some hundreds
of additional jet machines would
be delivered during the year.
It sounds well enough, but the
use of the term “jet machines,”
when patently what must have
been meant was “jet-fighters,”
would probably have alone been
enough confirm the worst
fears of many regarding Britain’s
actual position in the jet line.
There happens to be a consider-
able doubt as to whether, any-
way, jet-fighters would be much
use against jet-bombers, and in
these Britain would appear to be
lagging far behind other coun-
tries.
“Both Russia and the United
States,” the “Times” writer rue-
fully admits, “have more than
one type of jet-bomber, but none
has yet flown in this country.”
Against the achievements in
America (which, the “Times”
man implies, might go for
Russia, too), Britain’s nearest
approach in the jet-bomber line
is “one twin-engined type near-
ing the flight-testing stage.”
The rest of the picture in
Britain is that “Longer range
four-jet bombers have been de-
signed and are under develop-
ment, but it seems doubtful
whether even the earliest will be
ready for action for another two
years.”
And, “Meanwhile the R.A.F.’s
striking force consists of Lan-
casters, which were Bomber
Command’s mainstay for most
of the war, and Lincolns —de-
velopments from the Lancaster
—which were just coming into
service when the war ended.
Both these piston - engined
bombers are now obsolescent.”
In the “Times” writer’s other
details of Britain’s present posi-
tion aloft, and the description he
adds of the recent American per-
formances, there seems reason
enough for his raising the ques-
tion —aired repeatedly of late in
the House of Commons also —
“as to whether the re-equipment
of the R.A.F. with modern
weapons is being carried out with
the speed and vigor which the
unsettled world conditions de-
mand.” He leaves no doubt
about his own view of that ques-
tion ; the American achievement,
he says, “gives a rather frighten-
ing indication of the leeway to
be made up.” This is not altered
by Lord Pakenham’s statement,
since the leeway to be made up
is in jet-bombers, and that for a
most vital reason.
The American side of it has
been described in more detail in
the “U.S. News and World Re-
port’s” factual account, adding
striking particulars to cabled
mention of one or two jet-
bomber performances, and alto-
gether giving a nightmarish
glimpse of the jet-plane future.
“Air-strategy in war, air-trans-
port in peace are to be revo-
lutionised by the new-type U.S.
planes now being demonstrated.”
One of these jet-bombers crossed
the U.S. —coast to coast —in 3
hours 46 minutes; another in
4 hours 25 minutes. Some further
details:
“Speed of the XB-47, in sus-
tained flight, was better than 10
miles a minute. That of the
YB-49 Flying Wing, a plane
twice the size of war-time
B-295, was in excess of eight
miles a minute. Demonstrated
range of each was more than
2000 miles, with an undisclosed
amount of fuel left over. Alti-
tude reached into the strato-
sphere, about 36,000 feet.
“Carrying capacity of the
planes is high. Either can carry
loads larger than the B-29 bomb-
load. Both can handle the
atomic bomb. Crew is small,
two men plus a bomb-dropper,
instead of the 10- and 12-man
crews of war-time bombers. Cost
and time of construction, rela-
tively, are low. The XB-47 was
flying 15 months after it came
off the drawing-boards, com-
pared with two years for the
Flying Fortress, much longer for
the B-29. Production, with jet
engines, is simplified.”
For possible war purposes
bombers of the tested jet types
have these clearly revolu-
tionary implications from the-
U.S. point of view:
“Bases in the U.S., or on terri-
tory available to the U.S., are in
striking distance of any spot in
Europe or Asia, with ranges the
jet-bombers are expected to
reach. This reduces the need for
new overseas bases, which had
to be captured one by one in the
war against Japan so that U.S.
bombers could reach the enemy
mainland for a full-scale assault.
It means that future wars might
be decided in weeks or months,
instead of years.
“Fighter opposition, even by
the fastest jet-fighters, becomes
no longer a major concern of
bombing missions with the new-
type aircraft. Speed of the jet-
bombers makes them hard to
catch. More important —at
30,000 -to -40,000 ft. altitudes
where they operate, the larger
rudders and ailerons of bombers
will turn a plane faster than will
the smaller flaps on fighters. A
jet-fighter in the stratosphere
may ‘skid’ as much as 18 miles
in making a turn, where a
bomber can turn in a fraction
of that distance and thus avoid
an enemy fighter with ease.
“Fewer planes, by far, are to
be needed for strategic missions,
with the use of these jet-bombers.
Half-a-dozen of those planes
with latest-type atom-bombs
could match the 2000-plane mis-
sions of World War II in de-
structive power.”
For peace-time, there would,
of course, be such obvious ad-
vantages as incomparably faster
passenger-flights (with the XB-47
Europe would be less than six
hours away from the U.S.); also
speedier mail and cargo: “Cost
of passenger and cargo ship-
ments by jet-transport, moreover,
need not be higher than by
present aircraft, according to the
manufacturer of the XB-47.
High speed of the transport
means that it may make several
trips to each one by a propeller-
driven, plane. Hence, one jet-
plane may replace several slower
planes and reduce airlines’ over-
head enough to make up for the
added fuel costs.”
As to war-time defence against
the monstrous jet-bombers, the
London “Times” writer substan-
tially agrees with the U.S. ac-
count. Speaking of Britain’s
standard jet-fighters, he points
out: “The Meteor takes about
six-and-a-half minutes to climb
to 30,000 ft., and in that time a
jet-bomber such as the XB-47
could travel about 65 miles.
Even when the fighter had
reached the raider’s altitude it is
extremely doubtful whether it
would be able to intercept such
a fast-moving target. It would
certainly not be able to overtake
it in a chase.” [As to this, a
N.Y. “Times” reporter, watching
a U.S. Air Force display last
month, noted that the XB-47
outsped the best U.S. jet-
fighters.]
Present radar warning methods
would, as the London “Times”
man mildly expresses it, “be
seriously tested.” The range of
radar would, in fact, have to be
greatly increased. Even in the
doubtful event of defending
fighters being of use, “Fighter
squadrons will need to be alerted
in time to be at or above the
raiders’ height before they cross
the coast, and to do this they
must be set in motion while the
enemy is still 150-200 miles
away.”
In the same view, the defence
answer may be in guided missiles
of various kinds, including those
being developed on the Austra-
lian testing-range ; or the rocket-
propelled robot miniature air-
craft, British experiments in
which have been going on for
some time, with nothing known
about them except that “on at
least one occasion the speed of
sound was exceeded by a sub-
stantial margin.”
Still, whatever J. Bull may
have there —and he has proved
in his time a cagey old customer
—all of this jet-plane future
looming up must have the look
of a monstrous nightmare for
him and everybody else. And
the trouble with it is the night-
mare is no dream. It is real.
Cuts Affect Canada.
Britain’s further cuts in im-
ports under pressure of the
dollar shortage are having speci-
ally unhappy effects in Canada,
where, as well as many already
feeling the pinch (now likely to
be worse), there is also reported
a wider resentment, springing
from the manner in which the
Dominion aided Britain, particu-
larly with supplies of food, all
through the war.
Before the picture lately
changed so radically, Canada
had been Britain’s major over-
seas supplier of foodstuffs since
1939.
Moreover, much of the war-
time aid was made possible by
considerable, encouraged,
changes in Canadian agriculture.
Now, an Ottawa correspondent
has stated in a special N. Y.
“Journal of Commerce” article,
the probability is that by next
year “wheat will be the only
foodstuff that Canada will ship
in significant quantities to
Britain.”
The difference is emphasised
by the fact that as late as 1947
Britain was buying 22 commodi-
ties from Canada, in addition
to wheat and flour (it amounted
to Britain in that year buying
from Canada 53.6 per cent, of
all imported foodstuffs). This
has since come down to the pre-
sent three of those 22 items —
eggs, cheese and bacon —with a
clear threat to all of these.
So far, with the European
Recovery Programme helping
for the present, Canada has
been able to find markets for
the surplus in all lines; but in
most cases the chief “other mar-
ket” has been over the border,
and “there is a considerable
school of thought in Canada
that regards the United States
as a shaky, artificial market for
Canadian food products, be-
cause of her own tremendous
potential as a food producer.”
When the war ended, “For
many Canadians, it seemed that
the British market had been con-
quered for all time, and that
Canada could count upon selling
her entire surplus of foodstuffs


First published in 1926, the Reader’s Digest is now the
world’s most widely read magazine. Circulated in 35
countries, printed in ll languages, it is read by more
than 30 million people each month.
To Add Years To Your Life
Bodies can reach 100 without wearing out in any
vital part: most people “neglect themselves” into a
premature grave. In April Reader’s Digest is a report
on geriatrics (new science concerned with the body’s
ageing processes) . . . and two things on which a
vigorous old age can depend.
Also in April Reader’s Digest
Miracle of "The Messiah".
Old," crippled Handel's creative
spark was gone. Then one
night a manuscript from a
“second-rate poet” arrived at
his shabby room. Remarkable
story of how it inspired Han-
del to write —in 24 furious
days the world’s greatest
oratorio —moving tale of hope
victorious.
Having a baby the new way.
“It was wonderful” ... “I
felt like singing.” More and
more women are trying the
Read method of “natural
childbirth” (no anaesthetic,
yet you have no pain, are
wide awake to enjoy the ex-
perience). Report on how it
works by preparing you to
relax and when it won’t
work.
Things I can’t explain. Are
“messages from the dead” a
form of mental telepathy?
J. B. Rhine, author of The
Reach of the Mind, tells of
true, eerie experiences (such
as “seeing” the death of a
relative far away) . . . how
these experiences fit into a
big University's experiments
with psychic powers.
22-page book condensation
from "Road to Survival".
Man, by his excessive breed-
ing and his abuse of the soil,
has backed himself into a
trap, says William Vogt. This
condensation from his best-
selling book may shock, scare,
and infuriate you—but it is
a fascinating preview of
things to come as seen by a
courageous, competent scien-
tist.
The happy hour. Whipped,
starved, cramped in the dank
Soviet prison, the women
lived for one hallowed hour
each night when news of their
loved ones might come—tied
under a cat’s tail- Ex-
prisoner’s story of How Mish-
ka, the cat, eluded Russian
guards . . . what happened
when he was trapped.
In this issue—more thorn
30 articles of lasting
interest , selected from
leading magazines and
current books, and con -
densed to save your time•
Read and enjoy April
Readers Digest
ONE SHILLING All Newsagents and Bookstalls
in the U.K., even in open compe-
tition with other world pro-
ducers of food.' Now, instead
of this rosy dream coming true,
Britain is having to tell Canada
to look for other markets for
most of her produce. The best
news that she can give Canadian
producers is that, if Britain is on
her feet financially by 1952, she
may be able to resume purchases
of commodities such as poultry,
apples, tinned fruits and salmon
and processed foods.”
Giving details of the rates of
decline to vanishing point of the
many different commodities to
show how “the dollar shortage
has been squeezing the life out
of the Anglo-Canadian food
contracts,” the Ottawa corres-
pondent concluded:
“Were it not for the dollar
shortage, food dealings which
helped cement relations between
Canada and Britain before and
during the war might have con-
tinued to do so in the post-war
period. Instead, there have
arisen bickerings and misunder-
standings as serious as any in
the long relationship between the
two nations.”
Planned Hen Eggs.
An example of that fabulous
wonder “planned economy”
looked into by N. Y. “Daily
News” concerns eggs. It seems
that “the Truman Administra-
tion, still grimly determined to
hold up the price of eggs,” is
running into embarrassing com-
plications.
Maybe having heard it’s a free
country, “United States hens just
aren’t co-operating.” They are
laying so many eggs that the
Government, to keep the price
and its own “planned-economy”
end up, is buying, in round, or
oval, figures, some 54,000',000
googs a.week !
“Andf’ says N. Y. “News,”
“unless our frantic bureaucrats
can find some way of persuading
the hens to be reasonable, Gov-
ernment warehouses will soon be
swamped with even greater
quantities of henfruit.”
Moreover, that is only part of
the “planned economy” in re
googs. As the “News” further
relates:
“The U.S. Department of
Agriculture is still stuck with
about 78,000,000 of tjn e
90,000,000 dozen eggs which it
bought and converted to powder
— N. Y. “Daily News.”
“ PLANNED ' ECONOMY.”
last year. Nobody, but nobody,
seems to want them. In 1946
and 1947 our Washington
planners got rid of most of their
dried eggs by shipping them to
England. But now the British
are saying they don’t want any
more, thanks. They say firmly
that they just can’t coax even
hungry Englishmen to eat dried
eggs. There’s something about
them, it seems, that tastes vaguely
like old plaster.”
So there are the Lord High
Planners in Washington left with
the googs, which, in the way of
such things, are getting no
fresher daily. And, concludes
the “News”;
“Meantime, our politically-
dumb U.S. hens are clucking
happily and laying like crazy.
Those less cheerful noises you
— St. Louis (U.S.A.) “Post-Dispatch.”
A BIRD ON FOOT.
hear are coming from our terri-
fied food-planners, who see that
egg mountain growing daily.
“Anybody want a few million
old eggs?”
Germany a Rival.
Always eager enough to com-
ment on this particular subject,
Chicago “Tribune” has been in-
sisting editorially that Britain is
growing very scared of rising
German competition in foreign
markets.
Hence, in the “Tribune’s”
view, Britain’s attempts to have
dismantling of factory-plants in
Germany carried further than
the U.S. wishes it to go, and in-
sistence on other retarding mea-
sures as well.
What is held to be most seri-
ously worrying Britain is “the
competition from the Germans
in automobiles, especially in
Switzerland and Sweden.” Any
such fears would seem to be
based on future estimates rather
than past results, seeing that the
Germans exported only 5800
cars last year, compared with
Britain’s more than 200,000. The
“Tribune” points out, however,
that “this year the Germans
have a production goal of 90,000
passenger automobiles” and de-
clares that export of many other
German products, including
machinery, is adding to Britain’s
fears.
Certain support for the “Tri-
bune’s” contention would appear
to have come a little earlier, in
a statement by the chairman of
the British Internal Combustion
Engine Manufacturers’ Associa-
tion, Lynden Macassey, pointing
to developments in German pro-
duction which he described as
not merely disquieting but
sinister. Referring to some Ger-
man export prices being “sub-
stantially lower than the British
prices” for certain engines, he
stated that this led up to what
he called a “sinister circum-
stance” ; adding:
“For comparable oil engines
round about 500 horsepower the
German price becomes only 50
to 60 per cent, of comparable
British prices. Let it not be
thought that this is merely a
matter of unfair competitive
trading. It is much more serious.
These engines of 500 horsepower
and over, and the factory equip-
ment and tooling required for
their production, have the great-
est potential value in case of
war, as we learned to our cost
during the submarine menace. I
am not suggesting that German
industry should be unreasonably
handicapped in order to give an
advantage to British industry.
But I am suggesting that this
present German price-policy,
which cannot possibly be based
on costs of production, is no-
thing less than the reintroduction
of the well-known German ex-
port trading policy before the
war, the true motive of which
became only apparent when its
effect emerged during the war.”
U.S.-British Forces.
Refuting Soviet accusations of
British “warmongering” a
regular item of Russian propa-
ganda-blasts from Moscow and
in U.N.O. —Britain’s Minister of
State Hector McNeil made the
point (already quoted here) that,
whereas Britain’s forces had
been reduced from a war-time
8,000,000 to a present 800,000
men, the armed forces of the
Soviet Union still probably
number 4,000,000.
Even that, a report by a
“Christian Science Monitor”
staff correspondent in London
indicates, does not show the real
state of Britain’s forces. The
number actually in those forces
over the past year would appear
to have been nearer 700,000.
Still, the present figure repre-
sents a tidy peace-time strength
in the way of a standing force,
comparing with the 677,000
troops officially given as the U.S.
strength for this year.
These U.S. forces, with
the commitments Uncle Sam is
no\tf shouldering, will be fairly
widely scattered. An interesting
point about them, as shown in
the official report released by
U.S. Vice-Chief of Staff of the
Army, Lieut.-Gen. Collins, is
that, while it is intended to make
a slight reduction in the number
in Europe, there is to be no re-
duction in the Far East.
The total U.S. number for
Europe is put at 92,000, and that
for the Far East 127,000; but
it is pointed out that the re-
spective placings of actual com-
bat troops shows an even greater
degree of relative Far-East readi-
ness than those over-all figures
indicate. Gen. MacArthur’s
command, for example, will have
four combat divisions of an
average of 18,000 men each;
there will be only one such divi-
sion under Gen, Clay’s com-
mand in Europe.
What could be another signifi-
cant point in the official U.S.
report is a doubling of land
forces in Alaska, mostly to be
“in support of air operations.”
Mediterranean Pact.
As indicated in cables, the
Kremlin has lately been emitting
fire and brimstone over dark
plottings for a Mediterranean
pact as the next step by the
West.
Whatever “plottings” there
may be, there is certainly nothing
dark about the idea, which was
openly-enough aired in a
London “Times” leading article
over a month earlier.
Said the “Times,” discussing
the other pact which the Kremlin
did more than any other single
force to create:
“Is there to be a Mediter-
ranean pact, guaranteed perhaps
by Britain and the United States,
with Greece, Italy and Turkey
for its chief members and Israel
as a possible candidate? Or will
the better way be a wider Middle
Eastern pact, stretching, as Mr.
Bevin has suggested, from
Pakistan to Turkey?”
The “Times” used the term
“Mediterranean pact” twice
more in the same leader, but con-
tended that the main thing for
the present was to finish the
work now well on the way. Then,
it added, “Once the Atlantic Pact
is signed it will be possible, and
indeed necessary, to look farther
afield:”
Since then, however, it has
been authoritatively given out
in Washington (March 25) that
the one pact should be ample.
Dragnet Digest.
Gambling as an Industry.—lnfor-
mation supplied in reply to a question
in the House of Commons: The
turnover on totalisators operated by
the Racecourse Betting Control
Board on horse racecourses, including
pony racecourses, was £26,252,614
15s. for the year 1948. Also, the
turnover of totalisators at dog races
was about £95,000,000, and a further
approximate £65,000,000 was staked
in football and jockey pools. The
British Post Office is reported as
making a profit of £50,000 a week on
football pools alone.
* * * *
Socialised Patients. —English jour-
nalist-author Cecil Palmer, on a 16-
weeks lecture-tour of the U.S.: “In
Britain, socialisation of medicine has
ruined the relationship of privacy
that has always existed between doc-
tor and patient. Case-histories of
patients must be turned in to local
boards, with the result that in the
smaller communities the nature of
individuals’ illness becomes public
knowledge.”
* * * *
Tmned-salmon, No ! Australian
housewives in particular (to say no-
thing of those they feed) will no
doubt note as a special crime of the
“dollar shortage” one reference in an
article by an Ottawa correspondent
of N. Y. “Journal of Commerce.”
Describing the disturbing effects in
Canada of losing the huge British
market for most foodstuff-exports,
the correspondent mentions tinned-
salmon as one of the most serious
surpluses.
* * * *
Boom in Birth-rates. —Contrary to
most general notions, an “American
Mercury” article points out that “At
the present time, most of the nations
of the earth are experiencing an un-
expected boom in birth-rates. Fol-
lowing a ‘low’ in 1933-34, the rates
began to climb, the trend becoming
well-defined by 1937. Between that
year and 1946 the West’s birth-rate
increased as follows: France, 15.0 to
20.6; England and Wales, 14.9 to
19.1; Canada, 20.0 to 26.6; United
States, 17.1 to 23.3. No official
figures are available for Russia, but
the rate undoubtedly has risen there,
too.”
* * * ♦
Corns’ Plot in Japan. —The fact
that N. Y. “Times” is not given to
mere sensationalism adds to a special
report from its Tokyo correspondent:
that he had seen documents, some of
which could not be quoted, making
clear that the Jap Communist party
expected to be able to turn the strike
it tried to get going last August into
a general revolt. This, according to
the documents, was to occur later in
the year, was to synchronise with
similar revolts on a wide scale in
other countries, and, in Japan, was
to lead by February this year to the
setting up of a Communist-controlled
“People’s Government.” MacArthur’s
prompt action at the time stopped the
plot—for the present.
* * * #
American Wool Drop. —U.S. Agri-
culture Department report on a de-
cline that is alarming the American
textile trade: “Wool production in
this country [U.S.] last year was the
smallest since 1923. Sheep-raising
has declined sharply in recent years
as fanners found more profitable en-
terprises.”
* * * ♦
Sam’s Aid to Bull. —Rather pointed
comment by “Wall-street Journal”
(fed up, it should be said, with
claims that Socialist control is what
has brought about the improvement
in J. Bull’s health): “Without in
the least deprecating what recovery
Britain has achieved, it would seem
reasonable to expect even a primitive
economy to show some improvement
after $7,000,000,000-worth of post-war
American help.”
Back to Gold? —The question-mark
is no doubt needed, but at all events
the U.S. House of Reps, has before
it a proposal that America should
give a lead in getting back to the
gold standard. Said Rep. Daniel A.
Reed (Republican), introducing the
bill: “A sound monetary system is
an integral part of a sound economy.
It is an important safeguard against
Socialism, Communism and the evils
of a Government-managed economy
toward which we are headed today.”
The bill aimed to “restore the rights
of American citizens to own gold and
gold coins” and permit them to re-
deem paper money in gold coin.


THE SCHOLL BUS DRIVER
BY E.O.SCHLUNHE
THE two farmers who had come to
meet the school bus in their cars
because of the inclement weather
pulled up side by side, and each
screwed down a window just enough to
be able to hear the other’s conversation.
There they waited, snug enough, while
outside the cold south-west wind thrashed
the greybox-trees that lined the road and
stripped off small branches and bits of
loose bark,
“He’s late again,” said Birnie, as if
that was what he expected.
“Yes,” said Wyatt with a tolerant grin.
“I suppose he rushed off at the last minute
to do a job.”
“He had all day in town to do it,”
Birnie persisted.
“I can see him now,” Wyatt said, to
cut off the complaints which he knew
were coming.
THEY watched the bus, an uncom-
fortable converted truck which the
Army had used for the transport of
female military personnel who lived away
from their work. It came along deliber-
ately, dodging holes in the road and sway-
ing in the wind because of its top-heavi-
ness. It slowed down a long way from
the stop in order to save petrol.
Half a dozen big boys who didn’t be-
long to Wyatt or Birnie jumped out, hat-
less and coatless with the schoolboys’
disregard of the weather. They split up
and began to examine the ground care-
fully in front of the bus and at both
entrances of the crossroads, while the bus
driver watched them intently and shouted
instructions. The young Birnies and
Wyatts came out more slowly, dragging
their bags.
“What in hell are they up to?” Birnie
asked his eldest.
“Henzel’s cows,” the boy said
brusquely, as if he thought his father
ought to have more intelligence.
At that moment one of the big boys
gave a yell.
“Up here,” he said, pointing to a track.
Henzel got out from behind the steering-
wheel and went to verify it.
Birnie said to his boy accusingly;
“You’re late again.”
“We stopped on the hill to pick up
rocks,” his son replied, still in the same
unwilling schoolboy manner.
Birnie looked at Wyatt with exaspera-
tion and wonder in his face.
“Rocks!” he exclaimed, as if that was
the limit.
Wyatt began to laugh.
“For his garden, I suppose. I often
wondered how he collected so many.”
BIRNIE checked himself because
Henzel was coming towards them,
looking Intensely preoccupied, his body
bent forward hurriedly as if he was trying
to catch up with his flying thoughts.
He was a tall, slim man with a thin
nervous face lined by many premature
wrinkles. He appeared to be in an elated
but highly anxious state of mind. He
started talking as soon as he got near
enough to overcome the wind, quite re-
gardless of what they might be discussing
with each other.
“I’m off to Sydney tomorrow,” he said,
in a loud boyish manner, “to look at a
new bus. The very latest kind ; roomy,
comfortable, rides like a good sedan car,
and with a diesel engine, so I won’t need
to worry about petrol-rationing.”
Then a cloud came over his face, mak-
ing it look drawn and grey. “But it costs
well over two thousand pounds.”
“Gee whiz!” said Birnie, and gave a
whistle. He was not one to spare other
people’s feelings, particularly Henzel’s.
The bus driver looked at him sharply.
“Do you think that’s too much?” he
asked, with the utmost concern, quite
obviously put out by Birnie’s reaction.
“Mind, X don’t expect the school run to
pay for it. What I’ve got in my head is
week-end trips ; to Leeton —lots of people
would want to go there, the Irrigation
Area is a wonderful sight—then to the
mountains in summer. People are always
urging me; they reckon there’d be heaps
of money in it. Look at the big
tourist buses, coming through the
town every week, and always full
of people. I’d have a loudspeaker
and give a running commentary
of the country we passed through.”
HENZEL’S face and voice were
becoming confident again.
“Well, you’d do the spruiking
all right,” Birnie admitted grudg-
ingly. Henzel was a great reciter
at parties and speaker at all public
functions.
Henzel looked pleased to have even
that much approval; then he turned to
Wyatt.
“Now, tell me what you think of it,”
he asked, and waited full of tense expect-
ancy.
Wyatt thought of his two youngsters
who were very small, and who always
looked tired after the rough and noisy
ride.
“I’d like to see you have a new bus,”
he said, “but don’t expect me to go on
too many week-end trips with you. I like
to have a spell at week-ends.”
Henzel stroked his chin as if this had
provided much new material for thought;
as if he was now contemplating some
kind of Gallup poll among his contacts.
He screwed his head this way and that,
and after looking straight at the bus three
or four times he actually saw it, standing
there with all the children inside, and the
door and windows closed tightly against
the wind. He gave a startled exclama-
tion,
“My, I must get these children home” —
and off he rushed as if he would allow
nothing in the world to interfere with
that primary duty. The bus rolled off,
leaving one of Henzel’s boys to follow the
clue of the cow’s tracks.
BIRNIE and Wyatt looked at each
other.
“There,” said Birnie emphatically, “he
stopped here for about ten minutes on a
night like this, and some of those poor
kids have to walk a couple of miles after
travelling seventeen in the bus. I wouldn’t
make a fuss about it, but I say it ain’t
right. Now is it?”
Wyatt said soothingly;
“He’s in a very disturbed state of mind
today.”
Birnie made a derisive exclamation.
“Last week he was going to sell out
and buy a shop in Wagga, and he was in
a terrible state because he couldn’t decide
whether he should close with the deal in
Wagga first, and then sell his bus run,
or the other way round. He’s always got
something on his mind. A lot of the
parents are dissatisfied and want me to
call a special meeting of the subscribers.”
“I don’t think you ought to do that,”
said Wyatt. “He’s a good fellow. If you
had a breakdown with your tractor, and
wanted a part urgently he’d scour the
town for it all day and never think of
charging you a penny for it. His only
trouble is that his right-hand never knows
what his left-hand is doing.”
“That’s a pretty bad way to be when
you’re driving a bus,” said Birnie, tak-
ing Wyatt literally to make it look worse.
Then he was interrupted by his small
daughter, who seemed to have a nature
something like his.
“Aw, Dad,” she said, in a complaining
voice, “why don’t we go home? I’m
hungry.”
NEXT week Wyatt saw Henzel in town
a short time before the schoolchildren
were due to come out. His face was
downcast, troubled and full of resent-
ment; he looked at Wyatt’s face for half
a minute before his mind focused suffi-
ciently for recognition.
“Well, did you get your new bus?”
Wyatt asked hopefully, though it did look
as if something had gone wrong.
“New bus! ” Henzel replied in the tone
and manner of one answering a callous
remark, made about a recently-lost near
and dear one. “There’ll be no new bus.
And no old one either. I’m selling out.
I’m going away; anywhere to get away
from people who have no sense of
decency and gratitude. The farther the
better, Victoria or South Australia for
preference.”
Then he fastened his eyes very deliber-
ately on Wyatt’s face as a new train of
thought shunted into his mind.
“You didn’t go to the bus-subscribers’
meeting, did you? That’s a pity. You
would have seen some nice goings on.”
His face clouded as he thought about it;
then he burst into speech again: “I didn’t
go because I thought it was their busi-
ness. I’m only the contractor. Just as
well I didn’t go, too. I would have said
some things that wouldn’t be forgotten.
But do you know what they did? They
sent me a letter! Such a letter! Cooper
was there (he’s a decent fellow, he didn’t
have anything to do with the letter), he
told me he’d never seen anything so dis-
graceful in his life. Birnie and his bunch
had got together to put the knife into
me.
He stopped again, overcome by his
bitter thoughts, and watching Wyatt’s face
earnestly for suitable reactions.
“What was in the letter?” Wyatt asked,
as sympathetically as he could.
“Everything! It was awful. I’m
ashamed to tell you. To think that people
I treated as friends could act so low. It
was full of all the meanest things. They
complained about me being late!”
“Oh, I see,” said Wyatt, working hard
to suppress a smile, “and you’re not often
late?”
Henzel gave him a suspicious stare as
if he thought he might be as bad as the
rest.
u r ATE!” he said, with half a dozen
■L' exclamation-marks. “I’ll admit that
sometimes I am a bit late. But what
makes me late? People ringing up at
half-past three in a dreadful state be-
cause their machines are broken down ;
women who’ve come in with me forget-
ting what time it is and having a nice,
quiet cup of tea until I go and find them
(I can’t leave them behind and make their
husbands drive in twenty miles to get
them, while petrol-rationing is on). Then
the schoolchildren. I’m always ready to
start when someone says”:
His voice changed into a satirical
mimicking of a child. “ ‘Crjssy Meadows
and Wendy Schulz aren’t here yet,’
they’ve gone to post a letter they could
have posted at lunch-recess, and they are
just the children whose parents com-
plained loudest. Once I’d gone five miles
before the kids began to sing out ‘Bobby
Tepper and Clem Birnie are left behind.’
So I had to turn round and we met them
about a mile out, walking home. Now I
ask you, what kind of a man could just
keep driving on, and leave a pair of ten-
year-olds to walk thirteen miles? Tepper
and Birnie would be complaining out of
the other sides of their mouths if I’d done
that!”
“It’s a tough life,” was all Wyatt could
say.
“Ah, that’s not all,” Henzel’s face took
on a look of grim gratification as he piled
up the iniquities of his enemies. “It wasn’t
only my lateness. / don’t keep order in
my bus. Somebody or other’s little girl
got her hair pulled, or something. But
how can I see what’s going on in the
back of the bus? I’ve got to watch the
road, and I can’t hear what’s going on—
the old bus rattles too much. It’s their
fault anyhow if the children don’t behave
—why don’t they bring them up
properly? And if I did turn round and
keep an eye on the children, what do you
think would be the next thing? They’d
be complaining that I don’t look where
I’m driving. It’s true, they would. They
got at me in a double-barrelled way like
that, too. Complaint No. 3 was that I
drove the bus when I had measles. Now,
how in hell did they know I had measles
when I wasn’t sure I had them myself?
I kept the bus going because there was no
one else to do it. My head was nearly
splitting, but each day I said to myself,
‘Well, I got the children to school and
home again,’ and I felt that I’d done
something good. That’s what kept me
going when I felt more than half-dead.
But another time when I was really too
sick to drive and I was able to get a man,
what do they say to that? Complaint
No. 4: ‘Letting an unregistered driver
take the bus.’ What would they say, I
wonder, if the bus didn’t run one day?
Never gave me a word of credit for keep-
ing it going! Think a man’s a machine
made of iron. There was a lot more too
I must tell you about.”
But here Wyatt interrupted. He had
been watching a number of children col-
lecting in the offing, and some of their
faces looked familiar.
“Aren’t those your schoolchildren?”
he asked Henzel.
Henzel gave them a cursory glance, as
if he hated the sight of children, and
shrugged his shoulders.
“I suppose they want to go home, but
they won’t have me at their beck and
call much longer. I’m leaving as soon as
I can get my affairs cleaned up. I don’t
know why I ever took on such a rotten
job.”
■"THAT night Wyatt had a telephone-call
* from Birnie. His voice sounded very
worried.
“Henzel’s got the huff properly,” he
said, “just because we pointed out a few
improvements we wanted. He says he’s
leaving, and I can’t get anyone else in-
terested in the bus-run.”
“Ah,” Wyatt said slowly, in lieu of
telling Bimie it was his own fault; then
he went on, “That must have been a
pretty tough letter you sent him. Have
you thought of apologising?”
“It was only facts,” Birnie protested.
“You can’t apologise for facts.”
“But you could say you’re sorry he
took it that way,” Wyatt suggested.
“How could Ido that? I’d feel a fool
talking about his feelings,” said Bimie.
“But what about you having a go at him?
You’re not on his blacklist. We’ve got to
keep that bus running somehow.”
Wyatt rang Henzel, but he found him
in an extremely obdurate mood ; he even
exceeded his instructions and offered a
handsome apology on Birnie’s behalf, but
Henzel gave a theatrically hollow laugh.
“He’s cooked his goose and now he’s
got to put up with the consequences,” he
said. “I’ve got half a dozen openings I’m
looking into. Bimie can buy the bus him-
self and do his farming at night, as far as
I’m concerned.”
He started to talk about the various
opportunities he had, but the exchange
girl interrupted to tell him that a call was
coming to him from Sydney.
“That will be one of your oppor-
tunities,” Wyatt said, and hung up.
FOR the rest of the week Wyatt heard
of no new developments. His
children boarded in town, and only used
the bus to go in on Mondays and out on
Fridays. He wondered if there would be
a bus to bring them out on Friday.
He left at his usual time for the bus
stop, and was astonished to see from afar
his boys walking to meet him. He calcu-
lated that the bus must have been hail
an hour earlier than usual. Several in-
triguing solutions suggested themselves
to him ; Henzel had sold his bus to a new
and more efficient operator; or he'd been
unable to find a satisfactory opening
among all his many opportunities, and
decided to carry on with his run, m a
manner that would silence all cntiasm.
But when he met his children he could
see from their bright, eager faces that
something more exciting even than a new
bus driver was responsible.
“We knew you wouldnt be there to
meet us,” the older said. Mr.
Henzel’s new bus is so fast.”
And the other said just as eagerly:
“It’s the second trip he made today,
too. He gave all the parents a free nde
so that they could see how good the new
bus is. Why didn’t you come, tooL


JIMMIE CONWAY WORE BOOTS
BY GEOFF BINGHAM
BURTV ILLE
was very busy,
and Saturday
morning i n
Burtville is usually
busy enough without
Jimmy Conway hav-
ing gone and died.
“Jimmy Conway?”
“Jimmy Conway
dead?” “Old Jimmy
Conway, eh?” Yes,
Jimmy Conway
dead, and most
people had thought
Jimmy Conway
would live for ever, as though that were
an attribute of his, amongst other
qualities. Others might die, in the natural
course of events, but not Jimmy Conway.
The military band, then, or rather the
brass band—will they be out? Assuredly
there must be a brass band for Jimmy.
The cortege, then ; the cars, the utilities,
the councillors’ cars and the business-
men’s cars, they will all be there, of
course. Such a hurrying, such a busy-
ness around the small country town of
Burtville, and even a stirring within its
self-styled suburbs.
I IMMY CONWAY dead. I can re-
member Jimmy Conway, although,
indeed, it seems to be a long way back
in the misty beginning of things, the first
memory a child has, yet one which is
distinct as few memories are distinct,
Jimmy Conway striding down past my,
father’s house, and men nodding to him,
and someone saying, “Ah, there, Jimmy.
How’s things?” and Jimmy, with a bored
smile on his black face, answering,
“Hullo yourself” ; for Jimmy was at ease
with white men, as well as with his own.
No one seemed to consider Jimmy a
black man, and although the Burtville
people have ever been wary of the blacks,
they never showed any suspicious aware-
ness of Jimmy.
There are other memories of Jimmy,
or, rather, of people talking about Jimmy.
Some reckoned in that First World War
that the climate in England and France
would kill Jimmy, and others reckoned
when he got malaria in the Middle East
that that would finish him, but neither
England nor malaria seemed to make
much difference to him.
He came home occasionally on leave,
attended the dances and functions ar-
ranged for servicemen, and even, on one
leave, was married in the Anglican
Church.
When the great news came through,
about Jimmy’s getting a medal, there was
quite an amount of talk. The Sydney
papers made a great fuss, and the Burt-
ville “Courier” had three long columns
which contained Jimmy’s life story
(which everyone knew) and Jimmy’s
various actions in which he had fought,
and, of course, the action, and finally the
remarks made by the Sydney newspapers,
some by the London press, and, in thick
type, those 'made by the English major-
general who seemed to consider Jimmy’s
action so outstanding.
MONTHS later Jimmy came home,
and I can well remember the band
playing at the station, and the festooning
and the bunting in the street, and the
holiday that was declared for the Burt-
ville children, and then Jimmy himself,
happy, and not in the least embarrassed.
but smiling, and actually wearing his
medal which the King was supposed to
have given him by his own hand.
Jimmy seemed no different upon that
occasion, and the fact of his sameness
seemed to surprise and relieve everybody.
“This small token of our affection and
esteem... ” the Mayor had said, giving
him a handsome gold pocket-watch,
which appeared to surprise Jimmy no
end. This was the signal to cheer, and
for the band to strike up, and for the
real festivities to begin. Most people
like a reason for festivities, and although
Jimmy was not forgotten, you might say
the evening belonged to everyone.
Jimmy went back to the Reserve, and
to his wife, and was not forgotten, but
everybody was pleased he had conceived
no high ideas about his station in life,
now that he had a medal. That medal,
incidentally, was a Distinguished Con-
duct Medal, narrowly missing (so the
“Courier” reported) being the Victoria
Cross in this particular action. Jimmy
might never have won an award, the way
he went back to his old work of fencing
and ploughing, picking beans and peas.
and planting onions for those who cared
to employ him. For the most part he
found plenty of that employment because
he was a hard worker.
FARMERS still speak about Jimmy’s
capacity for hard work, and his skill,
particularly in fencing. In this, Jimmy
Conway was taken with the idea that
each post must be rigidly at the perpen-
dicular, that it must be rammed hard,
stamped so that, if needs be, it would
endure until the Last Trump. His lines
of fencing were undeviating, and he,
scorning staples, demanded always that
he should bore for wires, whether plain
or barbs.
The other Burtville blacks were more
indolent, too easygoing for Jimmy’s
standards, and if they worked with him
they were urged on, and if Jimmy worked
by himself he stuck to uncompromising
standards of toil. He was not a fast
worker, but over two or three days could
complete more chains of fencing, or pick
more bushels of peas than a white man.
What he did earn he never squandered,
and for the cheap drink sold by the
whites to the Reserve blacks he had only
scorn. Tobacco, if that be accounted a
sin, was his only transgression.
His family was a large one, sixteen
children living, and one who had died at
birth. The boys were keen footballers
and cricketers, and one year achieved a
certain fame by having eight of the family
included in the Burtville first-grade
League team. The team was referred to,
jokingly, as “Jimmy Conway’s team,”
but for all that they did particularly well.
WHEN, then, the news came through
that Saturday morning about his
death, it surprised everyone. He had not
even been taken to hospital, dying as he
did in the night, without warning. Im-
mediately folk began to discuss Jimmy,
his past, his family, his straightforward-
ness, his honesty, and quite a deal they
found to his credit. Farmers, on the
spot, invented apocryphal accounts of his
work, but in truth some vowed the fences
erected by Jimmy thirty years before were
as good as the day he had finished them,
excepting, of course, a few white-anted
posts. Others remembered, with slight
exaggerations, the number of bushels
Jimmy had picked in a week during the
pea season —a colossal number, although
not a - deliberate exaggeration—and alto-
gether most were sad Jimmy had passed
away.
The Burtville “Courier,” which was
published on Saturdays, was not behind
in the matter Of Jimmy’s death. It sur-
prised most by announcing on the front
page that Mr. Jimmy Conway had passed
away the previous Thursday evening.
Jimmy’s death-notice occupied thecolumns
usually given to the important European
news, and the leader, written in the Eng-
lish of a past decade, spoke warmly and
sincerely of the Burtville warrior. Folk,
then, remembered there had been a wail-
ing and crying from the direction of the
Reserve, but they had not taken much
notice of it at the time.
Vic Allsop, who for forty years had
been Burtville’s coroner, its sole grave-
digger and cemetery attendant, was able
to discuss details with most. He informed
them that Jimmy was to have a “whack-
ing big funeral,” that he was to be buried
in the Anglican section, and that the
brass-band from Coolbucca would surely
be there. It relieved all to know the band
would be there, for they had not forgot-
ten Jimmy’s medal.
I doubt whether Jimmy had gathered
much of a fortune in his time. He had
too many demanding children to be able
to accumulate much, and the children,
when he grew too old for work, them-
selves worked only spasmodically, and
brought in very few shillings. Like
Jimmy, they were upright and honest.
but his propensity for work they had not
inherited. It appeared, then, that the
funeral would be paid for by the Burt-
ville citizens.
WHETHER or not that fact was known,
and whether or not it inspired a
sense of possession, of Jimmy’s body
would be difficult to say, but it is a fact
that most people were surprised when
Jimmy’s family turned up, sixteen in all,
in a red truck, and took their place at
the head of the funeral —that is, immedi-
ately behind the hearse. It was agreed,
of course, that this must be so, but there
were murmurings from some.
The cortege is worth recording. Prob-
ably never in Burtville’s history, nor in
history anywhere, has such a con-
glomeration of vehicles been seen. Athol
Parsons, the Mayor, his well-dressed wife
and two daughters followed, in their sleek
post-war car, the red truck. The Reverend
Clive Edwards, officiating minister, was
not altogether sure where he should be,
but he followed the Mayor, in somewhat
a bewildered manner, and from then on
it was an alternation of trucks and cars,
a minglipg and a commingling, a rattling
and a wheezing, a roaring, grating and
reverberation of utility trucks, timber
lorries, carriers, cars, semi-cars, and even,
in the rear, Andy Johnson the blacksmith
in his dray, and Tim Whalen following
with spring-cart.
Tim Whalen was muttering to himself
about Jimmy Conway, “a white man if
ever there was one,” which was intended
to be a great compliment to Jimmy Con-
way.
It took an hour or two for these
vehicles to prepare, to come into line, to
be drawn from side streets, the main
street, to emerge from narrow lanes, or
be driven from garages, but assemble
they did, and snort and puff and rumble,
and tremble into a slowly-moving line,
and Burtville, seemingly en masse, moved
forth to pay homage to a dark man they
both respected and loved.
THE red truck was steeped in sorrow.
Sonow rode with Billy Conway at
the wheel, sat heavily upon the shoulders
of his brother Larry, and more quietly,
although not cheerfully, upon the widow
Mary Conway, who had, during the First
World War, married
Jimmy at the Angli-
can Church. Billy,
because he was the
eldest wore his
father’s medal.
There had been some
talk about the Mayor
pinning it to Jimmy’s
breast, but the im-
practicability of the
suggestion had
placed it at a dis-
count. The medal
rode to the funeral,
and away from it.
The band, as they solemnly played
and purposefully and slowly marched,
might have drowned the sorrows and the
wailing of the dark folk, but no gather-
ing of bands upon earth could have
stemmed or overwhelmed that sorrow
that wailed and rose, and fell, and rose
again, flowed over the cortege and made
the rural people forget it was just Jimmy
who had died, and they began to believe
he was a yet greater man than they had
esteemed him to be, so that they became
quite solemn, just a trifle uneasy, as
though now they were strangers at this
death festival, and the folk in the red
truck the real mourners,
THE long cortege came to the ceme-
tery, trembled, shuddered reverberat-
ingly as does a goods-train in all its
sections, but stopped.
Four men dressed in the almost for-
gotten khaki garb of that First World
War carried the draped coffin to the
grave.
The service was at the graveside, a
murmuring by the rector which few
heard, an uneasy rising and falling of
prayers, versicles and responses, and
words about Jimmy Conway which per-
haps the listening Conways may have
heard.
They themselves seemed a trifle be-
wildered, and the rest shuffled, looked up
at the pure green of Vic Allsop’s ten-
year-old poplars, until finally they heard
the minister intone the dust-to-dust and
ashes-to-ashes part, the cue, seemingly,
for the blacks to commence a wailing
and a weeping, and for Billy to cry —
old as he was —“Daddy! Daddy!” and
all the Conways forgot the white folk,
and cried “Daddy! Daddy!” until it
seemed there had never been such a
wave or sorrow or endearment upon
God’s earth.
Some of the children threw themselves
at the grave, and others rushed about,
Larry with frenzied hands grabbing at
the dirt and flinging it into the air.
The dead had been covered, the “Last
Post” played, a pleading wail of the
“Reveille” in some endeavor to wake the
sleeping Jimmy, and the band had
broken into soft music. Emotions were
tempered again, softened, until sorrow
was, perhaps, only a small stream and
one running quietly.
THE Conway family tumbled back
into the red truck. Engines broke
the silence, cars moved out, not caring
about formation, and people began speak-
ing freely, surprised a little at the tone
of their own voices. Some even arrived
at the eternal topics of cows, crops and
the possibility of rain.
I have forgotten very few of the details
of that day, but what I remember most
was Billy Conway turning suddenly to
Larry and saying, “Eh, Larry, what did
you do with Dad’s boots?”
Larry seemed prepared for that ques-
tion and looked defiant. “You’ve got
boots,” he told Billy. “I haven’t. I’m
keeping them.”
“Oh, no, you’re not,” Billy said. “They
won’t fit you.”
They got into the truck then, and
they were arguing loudly about boots.
Then the subject switched to shirts,
and in this argument some of the brothers
joined, and for the row that arose it
may have been shoes and shirts, and
boots and trousers, for, as the red truck
drew away, there was a hullabaloo of
voices, of noise, and of laughter, and
finally, as the truck was almost lost in
the distance, the shrill shrieking of
laughter, and then the concerted singing
of a song, an old one resurrected from
Jimmy’s past, for few these days seem
to remember it.
They shrieked it happily and confi-
dently as they went towards Burtville,
and the burden of it was, “What’s the
matter with Father, He’s all right.”
The Earth of the Ant.
What splendor of sea and breaker
May roll in that overwhelming
Immensity of azure
Or in Antarctic thunder
Crash on the rocks below
It is no use asking the ant.
Black, ferocious, intent
On some preposterous treasure
That suits his purposes.
He does not even know , -
It is a cliff he is combing
At the brink of tremendous seas.
Wrestling with sticks and gravel,
Climbing great trees of stubble,
Sweating at last he surmounts
The insurmountable pebble.
Waving in triumph his feelers,
King of the earth of ants.
King of his yard of rubble !
Abysmally deaf and blind
To all that passion of rollers
Shaking the cliff where I,
Turning away from its force
And seeming to shrink as I stand.
Stare like an ant at the sky :
Where in what overwhelming
Splendor of rushing and falling ,*
Too vast for the scope of the eye.
Thunders the universe ?
n.s.w.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


■• ■ I '
IP
'WwMMmc -
. 4l<\
-S! i v
BM||K: , >l?rV
s*
Scared of the daily shaving routine?
Forget it! Frighten the stiffening
out of that beard in the mirror, with
Ingram's. Ingram's is a cool, con-
centrated stubble-slayer, favourite
with a million and more shrewd
shavers. Ingram's soothes as it
smooths as it softens, and brings
shaving joy in the morn. Make a
shrewd investment in shaving se-
curity and, starting to-day, shave
the Ingram's way. Have the first 7
FREE shaves on 'ngram's—send the
coupon below without delay.
smi -fcr SECURITY/
CHEMISTS
EVERYWHERE
with
FROM
mm's
|cp° v «l'
PI:
mm
m m
fj
SHAVINC CREAM
1184
o*.'^
lys/Z/11/ES Win
Bristol Myers Co. Pty. Ltd.,
223 Pacific Highway, North Sydney, N.S.W.
NAME.
ADDRESS..
mm
■
SEALED UNIT
Efficiency
• Super-powered sealed unit.
• No oiling.
• No valves to shut down.
• Economical running.
• Larger storage space.
• Bigger door basket.
• “Crispashelf”—crisper food
less tainting.
See your local dealer.
Southern
Cross
refrigerators
SYDNEY
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
ItRAM DA.U ER-S
SR
PENS
Every point
guaranteed-*
do vrith imitation*
C BRANDAUEB * CO. LTD, BIRMINGHAM, ENft
SUNDRY SHOWS
ELEVEN BRITISH
ARTISTS.
Ben Nicholson, painter of ab-
stract compositions and oc-
casional still-life and landscape,
makes the biggest hit at the cur-
rent show by 11 British artists
at the National Gallery, Mel-
bourne, with a picture entitled
“White Relief.” The present
commentator thought it was a
ventilator belonging to the build-
ing.
The next biggest sensation is
made by Frances Hodgkins, a
New Zealand artist who had no
formal training, came to Europe
in 1900, travelled in Holland,
Italy and Morocco and then
settled in Paris, where she taught
at the Colarossi. Up to the age
of 70 she had painted conven-
tional landscape. Then she sud-
denly went gay, artistically
speaking, put on the fashionable
new hat of the modernist per-
suasion and painted such things
as “The Race,” depicting three
spectres seated in a ghostly boat
floating on supernatural waters.
The rest of the exhibition
ranges from Tristram Hillier’s
picture of an anchor gone de-
mented and J. S. Lowry’s bit of
juvenilia entitled “V-Day” to
the strictly academic portraits of
Lawrence Gowing and the sur-
realism of John Tunnard. The
best of the “abstractions” is a
“Collage” by Ben Nicholson
which has some of the variety of
a Persian carpet.
Three pictures by Victor Pas-
more show some traces of obser-
vation “Suburban Gardens,”
rich in color, “Carnations in
Vase” and a nude whose face
looks as if it had received the
attentions of a basher gang, but
is distinctly fleshy. By and large,
however, the amount of artistic
skill represented in the exhibi-
tion wouldn’t ferry most of its
owners across a goldfish-bowl.
DONALD FRIEND.
It seems obligatory on every
artist these days to offer in an
exhibition at least one portrait
of Margaret Olley. Melbourne
has seen plenty, and Donald
Friend’s, at George’s, is the
worst up to the present. Some
roses which decorate the lady’s
background look like papier-
machg, and her flesh resembles
paper. It would be interesting
to know what Mr. Friend would
make papier-mache look like if
he had to paint it. Possibly like
Margaret Olley.
There is the same lack of ob-
servation in most of the subjects
the artist touches. There is a
great variety of subject-matter,
but in what is put into the sub-
ject no variety whatever. Bril-
liant is the adjective usually ap-
plied to Mr. Friend’s painting,
but it is difficult to know
wherein it is brilliant inasmuch
as the craftsmanship is stodgy.
In the medium of oils Mr.
Friend has little genuine' quality,
and his shark, with two boys
looking into its stomach, a sub-
ject that has so charmed him that
he has done it twice, is distinctly
amateurish. When he expresses
himself in more grandiose sub-
jects like the huge canvas “The
Apocalypse of St. John the
Divine,” priced at 300 guineas,
he is tackling something Rem-
brandt and Velasquez, with all
their enormous skill, would have
shied at. The result —described
by one critic of the dailies as
“amazing,” “monumental,”
“overwhelming” and the mark
of a “major artist” —is poor
poster.
The grandeur of the subject
doesn’t make the picture grand
if the execution is amateurish;
and the touches of sardonic
humor, the pig dressed in
ermine, the angel shooting a gun
at the Judge and the bits of
ribaldry in the satire on the ban-
ning of Love Me, Sailor may
be good propaganda, but that
doesn’t make the painting good
if the line is stiff and academic.
The quality of the line in the
drawings is the same as in the
paintings.
Beethoven Cycles.
In presenting the complete
cycle of Beethoven violin
sonatas Hephzibah Menuhin
and Ernest Llewellyn sensibly
arranged them chronologically,
thus giving Sydney audiences a
clear view of the master’s de-
veloping maturity in this form.
The opening concert started
with the three of Opus 12.
These are not distinguishably
Beethoven; they reflect faith-
fully the influence of Haydn
and Mozart which powerfully
governed Beethoven in his early
essays in all forms. They bear
the same imprint of studied form,
of elegance and refinement
which were such conspicuous
features of his predecessors. The
playing of them was marked by
a perfect entry-timing and a
clarity of dialogue between the
instruments.
Many of the sonatas have not
been heard in Australia for a
generation or more. Why such
a one as the A Major, Op. 30,
No. 1 has been neglected by
performers is a major mystery —-
the polished lyricism and lilting
gaiety was made at once ap-
parent in a performance which
had snap and sparkle.
With the No. 2 of the same
opus came the same leap into
heroics and dramatics which
marked the change from the
second to the third symphony,
but instead of a French warrior
to hero - worship Beethoven
turned to Tsar Alexander I. The
martial air, the rugged strength,
the heroic declamations —these
were well stressed by both
players. Throughout the two re-
citals Miss Menuhin’s playing
had a fluency and grace which
made it look easy; but through
it shone a high musical intelli-
gence., Ernest Llewellyn has be-
come a first-rate interpreter of
Beethoven.
* * * •
The cycle of Beethoven String
Quartets being given by Musica
Viva continued at the Sydney
Con. with the F Major, Op. 18,
No. 1, an early work chiefly
distinguished by a lovely slow
movement, and the C Sharp
Minor, probably the greatest of
the series. The quartet generally
succeeded with only a minor
lapse or two in capturing the
sublimity of the work; and
demonstrated clearly that almost
alone of composers Beethoven
was able to combine great
beauty with great strength. The
Brahms Trio Op. 8 with
Maureen Jones at the piano was
invested with a captivating live-
liness.
♦ * # *
A hot and flawless Sunday
afternoon brought a huge crowd
to the. Melbourne Botanic Gar-
dens for 4 the last of the “Music
for the People” sessions, con-
ducted by Hector Crawford.
Denis Bradley, the 14-year-old
violinist, was heard but not seen,
being a trifle short of inches.
The sessions will continue
through the winter, the Govern-
ment having discovered that at
least 5,000,000 taxpayers and
voters have attended the concerts
or listened to the broadcasts.
They will probably go under
cover at the vast Exhibition
Building.
"Trilby."
There is more in Paul Potter’s
dramatisation of Gerald du
Maurier’s once-famous novel
than melodrama, or it wouldn’t
have survived its 53-year-old
Australian premiere at the Mel-
bourne Princess to be revived by
Anew MeMaster at the same
playhouse. It tells a human
story, although the frame in
which it is cast is hypnotism and
magic.
The uncouth Svengali who
puffs smoke into the faces of
young ladies and spits in the
faces of their young men can’t
sing a note, but is a genius at
voice-production. He believes
in the potentialities of the silly
little model, dominates her
psyche and focuses her on
music. The arty crowd with
whom she is surrounded, all
nice, charming people, only have
a romantic and sentimental atti-
tude towards her, and Little
Billee thinks she is an angel. AH
he can focus her on is marriage,
Svengali beats them for her and
turns her into a singer of world
class.
The famous scene where the
artists, wanting to get her back
into their \yorld, wait in the
foyer of the Theatre des Bashi-
bazouks, was admirably pre-
sented. Svengali knows the dan-
ger and does his damnedest to
prevent her seeing Little Billee,
but she sees him and the spell is
broken. The next time she sings
she is thinking more of marriage
than music, and a horrible caco-
phony comes out of the throat
that Svengali has moulded.
Svengali collapses and Trilby is
carried back in triumph to the
Latin Quarter, where she
promptly falls into a decline.
Life with Little Billee won’t
suffice her after the excitement
of the life she has lived with
Svengali, whose portrait, sent
ironically as a wedding present,
awakens her ill musical con-
science, and all Little Billee gets
is a corpse for a fiancee. With
the hypnotism omitted the play
would be another “Moon and
Sixpence” or. “Escape Me
Never.”
The McMaster’s company
played the old piece with excel-
lent restraint. McMaster’s
Svengali wasn’t the conventional
villain of previous performers.
His brutal contempt for the
young men was all of a piece
with his hatred of the common-
place qualities of the model and
his passionate desire to turn her
into something different. The
Irish insouciance of Dorothy
Wheatley in the name part had
to be imagined, but as the
obsessed pupil of her demonic
master she was perfect; the
scene in which she came out
with “Ben Bolt” in a cracked
soprano and Svengali slumped
over the balustrade of his box
was neat drama. John Edmund,
Eric Maxon, John Harrison and
others faithfully followed Du
Maurier’s illustrations.
"Wasn't It Odd?"
This play by Kenneth Horne,
put on by the National Theatre
Movement, concerns a grandma
with a capacity to project her
astral self outside her and make
comments on the proceedings.
The device has been used more
or less by Eugene O’Neill, Noel
Coward, William Shakspeare
and other celebrated playwrights,
and, in fact, Sophocles, Euri-
pedes, Aischylus and others used
it with their choruses of bacch-
antes and so forth.
The form has a respectable
antiquity like the sonnet, and
has had many distinguished
patrons. But it is what is put
into the form that is important
and what the characters in Mr.
Horne’s play say and what
grandma’s astral self says about
what they say is of such a piffl-
ing nature that it is a wonder
the National Theatre Movement
put it into rehearsal. As its next
production will be “The Circle,”
of Somerset Maugham, it must
have been done in a moment of
temporary artistic aberration.
Grandma was better played than
she deserved by Pauline Abra-
hams, and Valerie Twentyman
as a nurse was extraordinarily
energetic about nothing in par-
ticular.
"The Typewriter."
William Archer, the great pro-
tagonist of Ibsen, after spending
a lifetime criticising plays,
essayed to write one himself and
produced “The Green Goddess,”
a melodrama of the Himalayas
which turned out to be a popular
bestseller. Jean Cocteau, the
Parisian critic, has done the
same thing, only his opus, put
on by the National Theatre,
Melbourne, under William P,
Carr’s production, turns out to
be a whodunnit, the most
original thing about which is
that the audience is made privy
to who committed the crime, and
the interest, if any, lies in
whether or no the criminal will
be found out. The proceedings
are cast in a French chateau, and
there are lovers and mistresses
and a flavor of French naughti-
ness about it, but, on the whole,
it is pretty dull.
Elizabeth Wing, John Hill,
John D’Arcy, Agnes Dobson and
Fay Thompson turn in good per-
formances, while Reg Gillam
doubles himself as the legitimate
son and the adopted son of his
mother.


My line Must Be Out of Order:
ft
ISAY. WENDY. t DOMT
SEEM TO MAKE THE t
RIGHT CONNECTION
THESE OATS! All I
RATE ISA BUSY SIGNAL
OR A CUT-OFFI
NOTHING SENSATIONAL
ABOUTTHAT,PETE!
THE TROUBLE ABOUT YOUR
'UHE'IS THAT YOUR ONE-
AND-ONtY
DRAWS THE*«SIW»
LINE AT
BAD
BREATH.
WENDY, YOU
30NT MEAN
THAT I •••
/ SORRY TO BE SO STRAIGHT I
> FROM THE SHOULDER., <
[ BUT SOMEBODY SHOULD )
TEEL YOU. PETE,
YOUR BEST LINE
TO DIAL OUR Ifc; TiJ
DENTIST! 1,
r 'TO COMBAT BAD BREATH I -
J RECOMMEND OOtSAR DENIAL CREAM!
FOR SCIENTIFIC TESTS PROVE THAT IN ,
r > v OUT OF 10 CASES. COLGATES
//tSBMIY STOPS BAO BREATH '
THAT ORIGINATES
IN THE MOUTH •
V
HERPS WHY: COLGATE DENTAL cream has
AN ACTIVE PENETRATING FOAM THAT GETS INTO
HIDDEN CREVICES lETWEEN TEETH—HELPS CLEAN
OUT DECAYING FOOD PARTICLES AND SO RE-
moves the cause of much unpleasant
MEATH. AND COLGATE'S POLISHING AGENT
cleans enamel thoroughly. gently.safelyr
LATER - Hunks to Colgate Dental Cream
MOW PETES LINE
, IS WORKING FINE !
Tl
COLGATE DENTAL CREAM
Cleans your breath while
&Z//6B
cleans
teeth
your
rf
REMEMBER!
TWICE A OAT AND BEFORE EVERY DATE
**
fOIWfIU
§tcu>arir
GIVES
PERSONALITY
TO YOUR
WRITING
THE POPULAR PEN
with the
MARVELLOUS NIB
Conway Stewart & Co. Ltd.,
London.
S. W. RAMSAY
Melbourne and Sydney
rEFRB
. At an times, and
espedally In the bath, Cutlcura
Soap makes the skin delightfully
smooth and charming. Cuticura
Soap has antiseptic proper*
ties which remove all trace
of roughness and soreness.
One of the famous trio—i,
Cuticura Soap,
meat. Talcum
Powder.
523
FORECAST
SI
n UI)
aa»
»
*
£
M
1
at''
°Af»
ojs
a
[OUR future is of vital import-
ance to you, but when you get
right down to hard facts it doesn’t
matter very much what you read
in your horoscope.
If you want to know about your
future happiness, your Common-
wealth Savings Bank pass-book
will tell your fortune for you. If
it tells you that you are making
deposits regularly every week, then
you can face the years ahead with
confidence and peace of mind.
Save something every pay-day
with an account in the
COMMONWEALTH
BANK
EVE By lANKINS FACHItV
AVAILAILE. AT ALL •RAN C H E 4
C.S.B. tft-tt
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT !
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
It must be many a day since a
maiden performer beat, at weight for
age, such a classy field as contested
Saturday’s Rawson Stakes (9f.) at
Rosehill. The victor was the three-
year-old Vagabond; the victims
Columnist, De La Salle, Filipino,
Karachi and Silver Link. They
finished in that order, with about
four lengths covering the field.
Vagabond, who was ridden by A.
Ward, had a considerable drop on
the others in the weights. Receiving
a 101 b. allowance as a maiden, he
carried only 7.10. Columnist, beaten
by a head, had 9.2, and the even-
money favorite De La Salle 8.12.
After trailing the bunched field most
of the journey, Vagabond finished on
powerfully from the Leger to just
gain the edge on Columnist, who,
fighting back gamely as he tried to
win his third Rawson Stakes, showed
something like his old form.
Although he had not previously
won, Vagabond had shown consider-
able promise in several narrow de-
feats —he was beaten only a nose by
Carbon Copy in the £lO,OOO A.J.C.
Derby. A three-year-old bay colt by
Balloch-Blandsong, Vagabond was
bred in New Zealand at Alton Lodge
Stud, Te Kauwhata. Both Vaga-
bond’s parents were importations.
Balloch, a half-brother to such suc-
cessful sires as Beau Fere and Mr.
Standfast, never raced, having been
purchased in England as a two-year-
old specially for Alton Lodge Stud.
Blandsong is a daughter of Blandford,
sire of four Derby winners.
The 12-furlongs Rosehill Cup saw
another thrilling finish between one
of the present excellent crop of three-
year-olds and one of the older
brigade. Honors, however, were with
the older horse, Dark Marne (A.
Ward) showing great determination
to hold off the strong challenge
of three-year-old Dynamite. Dark
Marne won the corresponding race
last year and went on then to defeat
Columnist in the Sydney Cup. He
must have a great show of repeating
the performance this year, but three-
year-olds will represent his greatest
danger—indeed, the youngsters may
be a stumbling-block for the older
horses in all the big autumn races.
An exceptionally attractive pro-
gramme at Rosehill included three
Quality Handicaps—one for two-
year-olds, one for three- and four-
year-olds, and one at seven furlongs
for open company. In the interest
of the record-books it was a pity
that the South Australian two-yeai-
old St. Comedy did not contest the
Macarthur Quality; his older brothers
Comic Court and Comedy Prince
very easily won the other two events.
With J. Thompson up, Comic Court
had a three-lengths advantage over
imported Furdan at the finish of the
Three and Four-year-old Quality,
while Comedy Prince (W. Briscoe)
won the Railway Quality by two
lengths from Mentmore and Skip
Court. Skip Court came home well
from a long way back, but an even
more impressive effort noted in the
Railway was that of Johnny Zero-
worth keeping in mind that this
fellow is particularly partial to heavy
going.
The very consistent Dhoti filly
Vicereine gave another tip-top per-
formance in the six-furlongs Mao-
arthur Quality, but, after having the
race seemingly well in her keeping,
she was caught and beaten a half
length at the finish by the Agincourt
gelding Ffesdin. Nevertheless, it was
an excellent effort on the part of
Vicereine; she carried 9.1 whilst
Hesdin, ridden by B. Smith, had 8.4,
and they finished six lengths clear of
King’s Coin, heading the remainder
of a big field.
* * * *
Though most of the better-class
gallopers had headed north for the
A.J.C. Autumn meeting, there was
no shortage of acceptors for the card
of seven races run at Caulfield on
Saturday, the first day of the
V.A.T.C.’s April meeting. With the
weather perfect, there was a good
attendance, and sufficient favorites
came home to keep punters in good
temper.
Connections of the four-year-old
Saxon mare Saxony, deciding to be
content with the small fish available
locally, gave the trip north a miss,
and were rewarded with the cheque
for £lOOO attached to winning the
12-furlongs Glenhuntly Handicap.
Without bustling his mount, J. Gil-
more had Saxony nicely placed all
the way. He commenced to move
her up gradually from the mile, was
third into the straight and, taking
charge at the distance, ran on to win
well from Clement and Vantage. His
mount having been beaten by more
than a length, R. Heather, on
Clement, showed rare optimism in
entering a protest on the ground of
interference at the home turn. Protest
dismissed.
In an open betting race Saxony
started second favorite at 7 to 1;
the disappointing favorite was
Chatspa at fours. Saxony carried
topweight of 8.12, spotting other
runners 31b. and upward—a rattling
good performance. Connections may
regret not giving her a fly at the
Sydney Cup with 8.1, but the £5OOO
Sandown Cup, run on Easter Mon-
day, may provide tasty compensation.
Punters had much the worse of
the battle when the aptly-named
Henry The Fifth, a son of Agincourt-
Midsea, bobbed up in the six-furlongs
South Yarra Handicap. Henry The
Fifth (D. Barclay) came from the
blue to just head the Sydney galloper
Clipper. Neither was much fancied
in the betting. Third, making a game
“Take a swab of that tortoise /”
showing under a steadier of 9.1, was
the equal favorite Beau John. The
winner’s performance was a distinct
improvement on recent form.
The Foxbridge gelding Ellerslie (S.
Ralph) quite comfortably justified the
opinion of the handicapper and the
confidence of punters by winning the
seven-furlongs Neerim Handicap with
a length to spare from Magnetic Vale,
Bon Dhoti, and other three-year-olds.
Ellerslie carried 9.8 and started
favorite at 7to 4; next in the weights
was Sun Blast, in receipt of 151 b.
from the winner.
Both divisions of the Orrong Two-
year-old were in the nature of pro-
cessions. The Dhoti filly Dusky Rose
(J. Purtell) led throughout to take
the first division, rather close pressed
at the finish by Winlake. On a
slowish track Dusky Rose clocked
the excellent time of The
second division of the Orrong saw
Dornoch (L. Lott), earlier reported
an unlikely starter, win by five lengths
from Victory Law. It was Dornoch’s
third win from as many starts, and
the High Title gelding went out at
even money.
Blue Lass, a four-year-old Beau
Port mare with winning form on
N.S.W. country tracks, landed a
hefty plunge for connections when
she defeated Lord Bian and Vrondi
in the mile Kboyong Handicap. B>
those in the know, Blue Lass was
backed down from 33 to 1 to a
starting price of 8 to 1. The Kooyong
was a race for apprentice riders, aqd
the winner was well handled by R.
Mclntosh. The Khartoum Hurdle
was somewhat appropriately won by
Gordon Fox, with Sir William and
Man o’ War in the places and Kub-
badar impressing as worth keeping
in mind for a longer journey over
the jumps.
* * * *
For Randwick (before accept-
ances): —
Warwick Trial Stakes: Le Frere,
1; Maranga, 2; lolanda, 3. Cobbity
Handicap: Snowstream, 1 ; Freedom,
2; Grey Nurse, 3. Fairfield Handi-
cap : Field Boy, 1; Vicereine, 2;
Hesdin, 3. Chipping Norton Stakes:
Carbon Copy, 1; Comic Court, 2;
Columnist, 3, Liverpool Handicap:
Heroic Sovereign, 1; Bembrook, 2;
Mentmore, 3. Warwick Farm
Autumn Handicap: Karachi, 1;
Silent, 2; Buonarroti Boy, 3. Cab-
ramatta Handicap: Furdan, 1; Cool
Sir, 2; Susan, 3.
* * ♦ *
Pretty well all the year round there
seem to be Australian sporting teams
of some description touring other
points of the globe, and the term
“Test,” once sacrosanct to cricket,
is now tossed about with gay aban-
don. Over the week-end Australian
teams won two “Tests,” beating South
Africa at tennis and New Zealand at
softball.
H. O. Pickworth, Australian "open”
champion, expressed astonishment
that Norman von Nida, winner of
the McWilliams’ Wines tourney at
the Australia (Sydney) course, could <
go four times round such a course
in 281 strokes. But then “the Von”
is an astonishing golfer. A man who
can start with a 72, then in two
succeeding rounds knock two suc-
ceeding strokes off and finish with a
last round of 68, leaves everybody
more or less stunned, Pickworth,
six strokes behind him, started with'
a 68 and then had 73, 73, 73.
One of Sydney’s biggest golf gal-
leries followed the players in the
McWilliams’ tournament. When
was over, Norman von Nida (72, 7%,
70, 68) praised the crowd’s conduct.
He added that in Peter Thompson
the 19-years-old Vic. amateur who
was third to von Nida and Pickworth,
Australia had a world-beater.
Thompson (72, 73, 72, 72) was two
strokes behind Pickworth.
* * * *
Mainly through Jim Mathers taking
six catches and grand bowling by
19-year-old Alan Davidson, who
wrecked 6 for 56 in 20 consecutive
overs in the first innings and 3 for
37 in the second, Northern District
defeated Balmain in the last
match of the season and
gathered their first Sydney
first-grade premiership since
entering the fray 23 years
ago. Rain spoilt the chances
of other clubs. The final
points were: Northern Dis-
tricts 74, Mosman and St.
George 68 each, Waverley
63, with the other dozen
clubs trailing in the rear.
* # *
Displaying marked improve-
ment, Ern Jarvis (10.1011)
decisively outpointed Clem Sands
(10.9) at Leichhardt. Jarvis now
hopes for a crack at Clem’s brother
Dave, currently in England, for the
Australian middleweight title. On
the offensive from the first bell, Jarvis
floored Sands for nine seconds in
round two, but Sands recovered to
shake his opponent with solid right
swings in the third round. That,
however, was the only time Sands
even looked like holding his own, and
Jarvis won the remaining rounds by
so wide a margin that only cheers
were heard when he was crowned the
winner. The Leichhardt patrons are
somewhat prone to hoot any decision,
however just.
* * * #
An interesting note on American
cruiserweight Tommy Yarosz, due to
meet Australian Dave Sands in Lon-
don as this page goes to press, is
that, like Sands, Yarosz is one of
five brothers all of whom have
wielded the gloves to some effect.
One brother, Teddy Yarosz, formerly
held the world middleweight title.


Want extra
COMFORT
?
witk>
SLAGWOOL
LAVIDIA
Seventeen
Jewelled
Swiss
Masterpieces
o<J* e
lfl e
0?
e* c
LAV SNA
Watches
Founded in 1852
VILLERET, SUISSE
INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in Hong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £9,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BWB I 3 1 (3 lines). C. R. CORNWELL, Manager.
i j ■ i e i r
INTEREST payments
WILL CEASE UNLESS
YOU RE-INVEST
TO HOLDERS OP
COMMONWEALTH BONDS AND
INSCRIBED STOCK purchased
IN 1944 AND 1946 . . •
these Victory Bonds j
mature on
m.
If you have lodged with your bank
for safe custody more than £lO worth
of any of the Securities listed at right,
you should have received a letter from
the Prime Minister, accompanied by a
conversion application form and a
folder explaining how your Securities
may, be converted.
If you have not received such a letter,
check the maturity dates of your
Securities in one of the following ways:
1. If your Bonds are in your posses-
sion. Look at them at once and v com-
pare the rates and maturity dates
printed at the top with those indicated
in the list above, right. Look specially
for l\°/o Bonds dated October 15, 1949.
They are concerned in this Loan.
2. If you lodged your Bonds with
your bank for safe keeping. Most
banks issue a receipt or acknowledg-
ment for Bonds left with them for
safe custody. If you hold any such
receipts, compare the maturity dates
shown with the list above.
CASH SUBSCRIPTIONS ALSO INVITED
Investment in the Seventh Security
Loan is riot confined to those with
maturing Securities to convert.
Everyone may buy Bonds (£lO, £5O,
£lOO, £5OO or £1,000) for cash or
by instalments, or Inscribed Stock,
through any Bank, Savings Bank,
Money Order Post Office or Stock-
broker. Interest is payable each six
months at 3i% per annum for four-
teen years or at 2% per annum for
three years. Minimum investment in
the 2% Securities is £l,OOO.
Repayment in full at maturity is
guaranteed by the Commonwealth.
Autkorieed by the Treasurer of the Commonwealth.
THESE COMMONWEALTH BONDS AND
INSCRIBED STOCK MATURE ON APRIL 15
2j% " Victory” Bonds and Inscribed
Stock issued in 1944 (two issues).
(Maturity date of these issues was
originally October 15, 1949, but the
Commonwealth Treasurer has exer-
cised his option to redeem these
Securities on April . 15, 1949.)
2% *' Security” Bonds and Inscribed
Stock issued in April, 1946.
3. If you cannot discover maturity
dates. Go to your bank today and ask
whether any of the Securities listed
above are held on your behalf.
HOW TO CONVERT
If you find that your Securities are
about to mature, ask your bank or
stockbroker for an application form
for conversion into the Seventh
Security Loan. Fill in one form for
each series of Bonds or Stock maturing
and hand it back. That’s all. You
will then possess Seventh Security
Loan Bonds or Inscribed Stock of the
same value as your maturing Securities,
and interest on your Securities will
continue.
Convert*
Your maturing Commonwealth
Securities into the
SEVENTH SECURITY LOAN
7SLI 1.113.3?
In your favourite shape
at all good stores.
Priced at 36/-.
f Flawlessly crafted in
England of age old
bruyere and distin-
guished for its rich grain
and superb finish, the
“Sasieni” is truly perfec-
tion in pipecraft. In-
built, too, is the patented
“Sasieni” moisture trap,
which assures a mellow,
dry, satisfying smoke.
Distributed by WILCOX MOFFLIN LIMITED
Branches in all States.
1
of if If ok.
2^
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy Nangle’s Stars of the
Southern Heavens and Barton’s Guide
to the Constellations. —4606.
To buy gramophone recording of
Vaughn Williams “The Lark Ascend-
ing,” by violinist Frederick Grinke. —
4609.
To buy set of iron or steel quoits,
Sydney inquiry.—4605.
To buy first, second, fourth and
fifth editions of The Saturday Book,
published by Hutchinson, London. —
4603.
■ To buy copy of Landtakers and
Inheritors by Brian Penton. —4604.
To buy copy of Out of the Hurley-
Burly or Life in an Odd Corner by
Max Adler.—4601.
Words of verse “That Day at
Boiling Downs” by Jack Mathieu,
and “The Bush Missionary” by W.
T. Goodge.—4608.
Words of verse beginning:—
In drought and flood, year in, year out,
They done their task full well,
And many a whitened heap of bones
Tell where the young guard fell.
—4600.
Name and address of agents for
the “Onan” electric lighting plant,
or to buy flicker resistance for 110
A.C. belonging to such plant.—46o7.
Words of verse “The Coastwise
Lights” beginning “Our brows are
bound with spindrift.”—46o2.
Information Sought.
Suitable plants and shrubs in hot
climates where the rainfall is very
low ?
Make a choice from calendula,
eschscholtzia, candytuft, portulaca,
gaillardia, antirrhinum, linaria, corn-
flower and sunflower (annuals); shasta
daisies, nasturtiums and solidago
(perennials); sun rose ( helianthemum )
and rock rose (cistus) for embank-
ments ; cannas, salvia, pelargoniums
and broom (shrubs). Give spare water
from baths, laundry and washing-up
(where soda has not been used) to
help plants become established,
afterwards spread lawn-clippings,
short-cut grass and leaves about to
hold moisture.
* * * ♦
Dates of the assassinations of U.S.
Presidents Lincoln, Garfield and
McKinley, and attempt on life of
F. D. Roosevelt?
Lincoln was wounded at Washing-
ton on April 14, 1865; died April 15.
Garfield was wounded at Washington
on July 2, 1881; died Sept. 19.
McKinley was wounded at Buffalo
on Sept. 6, 1901; died Sept. 14.
Franklin D. Roosevelt was shot at by
Joseph Zangara on Feb. 15, 1933,
but a woman seized his arm and the
bullet fatally wounded Mayor Anton
Cermak, of Chicago, who died on
March 6.
* * * *
(1) When a batsman retires through
injuries how is it shown in averages?
(2) Is he allowed to resume in the
same innings?
(1) When he cannot resume it is
recorded as “not out” in the compila-
tion of averages. (2) M.C.C. Rule
33 states: “A batsman may retire at
any time but may not resume his
innings without the consent of the
opposing captain, and then only on
the fall of a wicket.”
* * * #
What Commonwealth employees
receive superannuation benefits and
at what age ? Are their widows
entitled to a pension ?
Under the Commonwealth Super-
annuation Act permanent officers and
certain temporary employees con-
tribute. for pensions, the amount of
which is based on salary. Con-
tributors have the right to elect to
contribute for retirement at 60 or 65
years, and the pension is payable on
and from the date of retirement. If
a contributor desires he may, after
reaching the age of 60 years, elect
to resign and receive a refund of his
contributions in lieu of retiring on a
pension. On the death of a male
contributor his widow is entitled to
payment of a pension at half .the
rate which would be payable to the
officer on retirement. Further details
are obtainable from the Secretary,
Superannuation Board, Canberra.
#** * ,
This season my hydrangeas have
only had two or three flower-heads.
They are pruned hard each year.
Should I prune back the non-flowering
shoots to make them flower?
Hydrangeas, like other flowering
shrubs, occasionally have an “off”
season. Opinions differ on pruning
methods —one vouches for success by
removing spent blooms in January
and a final pruning in June; the
other recommends doing all the
pruning in July. Give both a trial
and watch results. All stems on the
plants should be shortened back to
one or two pairs of double leaf-buds;
last year’s wood—whether it has
carried flowers or not —generally
gives the best results. After the
pruning dig in a liberal helping of
manure, with the addition of lime
to pink and white varieties and sul-
phate of iron to the blues and reds.
Brief Answers.
C.A.C.: (1) Rtidyard Kipling. (2)
A rocky isle or reef 1.J.5.; The
stars of the “Plough” which are in the
constellation Ursa Major are visible
in the latitude of Sydney at 11 p.m.
at this time of the year....J.S. and
G.H.K.: Reply should have read
“The stifle-joint in a horse is a joint
corresponding to the knee in a man.”
It is on the hind legs and is the next
joint above the hock towards the
flanks A.R.: Work is practically
beyond the amateur, and by the time
gear and chemicals are assembled,
costs more than a new one. Consult
a Melbourne directory for addresses
of mirror-makers, and write one or
two for quotations... .N.A.8.; Bath
seems to be worn out and beyond
any kind of home repair. Clean
thoroughly and scour rusty parts
with a dry scrubbing-brush, then give
all worn spots a coat of red-lead
priming and when dry apply a reli-
able bath-paint. Home repairs do
not stand hot water well; re-enamel-
ling is difficult at home F.K.: (1)
Worth 3d. each. (2) Only worth face
value....G.M.R.; (1) No. A dis-
play of goods with a price attached
is merely an invitation to make an
offer to purchase, which the shop-
keeper is not bound to accept. If
particular articles are demanded the
vendor can refuse to sell them. (2)
No J.G.H.F.: There are no firms
in Australia specialising in the supply
of choice mineral collections. Nor-
man H. Seward Pty., Ltd., Bourke-
street, Melbourne, carries a limited
stock of mineral specimens, some of
which may be suitable for collectors’
needs. Many dealers in second-hand
goods and antiques in the larger
cities have mineral specimens on
hand, but in general these are not
labelled and their origin is uncertain,
which spoils them from a collector’s
point of view R.C.S.: Write
Harris and Boyd, 313 Pitt-street,
Sydney... .C.S.: Goods are obtain-
able from Mick Simmons, Ltd., 712
George-street, Haymarket, Sydney
C.H.D.: (1) Arthur Augustus Cal-
well. (2) Born August 28, 1896, West
Melbourne (Vic.); educated Christian
Brothers’ College, North Melbourne.
A.S.: In 1894 Essendon won the
premiership of the Vic. Football
Assoc, for the fourth successive occa-
sion M.P.; Write Legend Press, 31
Macquarie-place, Sydney X.Y.Z.:
Consult any of the following books
obtainable from Dymock’s Book Ar-
cade, 424 George-street, Sydney;
Book of Games for Young and Old,
Party Games for Fifty, Popular In-
door Games, and New Fun Book.
X.N.: Attend public hospital as
out-patient. Nominal charge is
made for medicines, etc. Invalid pen-
sion should help 5.0.5.: Enlarged
joints is a very elastic term. It
might mean gout, arthritis, rheumatic
tendencies, etc., also fallen arches
contributing to flat foot. Latter
aggravates bunion formation and
hammer-toes. Swollen ankles sug-
gests kidney fault. See your doctor.


SSSjSrT
tr - . -“-Jr*
£*ss
■*o*3!
\st-Australian Whisky
(5 YEARS AND OLDER)
list-Australian Dry Gin
StfS'^rtrM
fy -»;fa
r»
«*rv;r
WW
\st-Australian Whisky
■ (5 YEARS AND OLDER)
Isf--4 ns/ra //an Z)#y Gin
' •'
I ;
* r!^
*.vsi
r«» 9"
-^asss*
I V
m-■
Is/- Australian Whisky
(5 YEARS AND OLDER)
\st-Australian Dry Gin
W l '
%
For the third year in succession, products of the famous
Corio
Distillery
exhibited at the Sydney
ROYAL EASTER SHOW]
have been awarded Ist Prize for
AUSTRALIAN WHISKY, 5 years
and older, and Ist Prize
for AUSTRALIAN DRY GIN
Australians can take pride in the fact that Whisky and Dry Gin
distilled by Corio Distillery are not only famous in Australia but
are in big demand now throughout a targe section of the world.
This is a feather in Australia’s cap! Australian spirits have
“arrived” in the markets of the world.
Corio Special . . . Whisky at its prime
Vickers Gin . . • Famous since 1750
The Scarlet Parrot
By MERLE HARVEY
LIFE had not been generous
to Mary Burnell; so that
when, soon after her
fiftieth birthday, she re-
ceived a legacy of fifty pounds
from an obscure relative it is
not surprising that she allowed
herself the luxury of indulging
a dream.
Not that her lifetime habit of
thrift was altogether forgotten.
Conscientiously she paid long-
outstanding bills. She bought
her husband and son a winter
coat apiece; herself sorely-
needed shoes. She even put
something aside for the doctor’s
bill she knew was coming. Then
she went into the junk-shop on
the corner and spent the re-
mainder of the legacy on a large
stuffed parrot of a brilliant
scarlet.
A TRIUMPH of the taxi-
** dermist’s art, the bird stood
on a perch with wings out-
stretched, its head turned
jauntily, its black eyes gazing
unwinkingly at the world. Its
glass shade was fixed to a cum-
bersome iron frame, for it had
once been a museum piece, aad
its massive size made it totally
unsuited for Mary’s small dwel-
ling. But Mary’s eyes saw only
the glory of its plumage, and her
hands were trembling slightly as
she paid over the money.
Before her purchase arrived,
she turned out the house with
passionate thoroughness. Furni-
ture was moved with a reckless
disregard for convenience till a
space was achieved in the
parlor. And when at last the
gaudy newcomer in its glass case
was duly installed, Mary gazed
at it in long and happy silence.
Her husband and son, if sur-
prised by this sudden denial of
frugal habit, gave no sign. Silent
beings both, they accepted the
parrot as unquestioningly as they
did everything of Mary’s; and
presently, after they had grown
used to the splash of color in the
parlor, they forgot it.
But to Mary its glory remained
undiminished. Never once did
she regret the money spent. No
one knew how often she would
stand before it, drinking in her
fill of its beauty; how often —
at the daily charing which be-
came her lot as her husband’s
health began to fail—she thought
of the parrot’s scarlet splendor
and was refreshed.
THE winter which followed
was long and cold, and
Arthur Burnell, who had never
been strong, contracted rheu-
matic fever. When he recovered
it was plain that his working days
were over. He was conscientious
and hard-working, but somehow
had never managed to provide
his family with more than a
hand-to-mouth existence. Now
it seemed he would not be able
even to do that.
Their son had married, and
wasn’t able to help them much.
Mary was forced to consider
what she should do. Finally she
decided to let her spare-room.
She would have preferred a man
—she was used to looking after
men—but a middle-aged widow
was the only applicant. Al-
though Mary felt an instinctive
dislike for the rouged, cherubic
face, she was thankful enough
for the regular addition to her
income.
She herself still went out work-
ing. Her husband was well
enough to undertake * the
domestic chores, and this meant
that Mary could leave home
early and return late, knowing
that she would find the house in
some sort of order and a meal
prepared when she game in.
j T never occurred to Mary that
1 there could be any danger in
so simple a setting; until, return-
ing unexpectedly one day, she
found the new tenant in the arms
of her husband, who was kissing
the rouged and powdered face
with an eagerness that held the
unseen Mary rigid.
And so a halt was called at
last to Mary’s long road of
drudgery. With a sudden flare
of feeling, of which no one —
herself least of all—had thought
she was capable, she gathered a
few belongings and went to the
distant home of a sister.
There she stayed, despite all
persuasion. She refused to see
her husband, or even to com-
municate with him flis shame-
faced scrawls were torn up un-
read.
Her sister pleaded, “You
shouldn’t take it so hard, Mary.
After all, it’s the first time. You
know what men are.”
She might as well have argued
with a stone. Mary surprised
them all with her obduracy.
They failed to realise the depth
of her hurt. But Mary had al-
ways been undemonstrative,
emotionally secretive ; her quiet-
ness now deceived them.
“If I’d been out pleasuring,”
she said once. "Perhaps I’d have
overlooked it. But me out
working to keep a roof over our
heads and him philandering with
the nearest woman ...”
HER son came to see her. He
and his wife had moved into
the old home, partly to keep the
flag of respectability flying,
partly to try and deal with the
situation. How the silent Albert
and his gentle little wife expected
to cope with the now boldly-
flaunting intruder was a cause
of private, ironic speculation to
Mary.
“You’d think she owned the
place, the way she acts,” he told
Mary unhappily. “She keeps
telling Lucy all the changes she’s
going to make.”
Instead of it rousing her as
he hoped, Mary received the
news in silence.
“Dad looks that miserable,
you’d hardly know him,” he re-
ported later. “He’s got much
thinner, and Lucy says she’s
worried about him.”
From Mary again silence.
A few weeks later, Albert an-
nounced that “she” was openly
talking of herself as the future
Mrs. Burnell.
“She says you’ve given Dad
ground for divorce.”
“No doubt she’s acquainted
with the ins and outs of the
matter,” said Mary. “We\c only
her word for it that she’s a
widow.”
“She says she’s going to bring
some of her own furniture —to
your home, Mother.”
“It’s my home no longer.”
“She’s going to dye your white
parlor curtains.”
“White stands for purity. It’s
well she knows it will be amiss.”
HER son looked at her miser-
ably. Manlike, he had re-
peated faithfully details with
which his wife had primed him,
in the hope of moving Mary’s
heart —apparently to no avail.
Hopelessly he offered the last.
“She’s moved your parrot out
to the woodshed. Tomorrow,
she says, she’ll pull it all to bits.”
He was totally unprepared for
the effect of his words. Mary
stared at him aghast, and rose
to her feet.
“Not my parrot?” she cried
unbelievingly,
“She says she can use its wings
to trim a hat.”
The two spots of color, that
appeared in Mary’s cheeks only
when she was deeply moved,
were there now. No one had
guessed the mental anguish she
had endured at leaving her
cherished parrot, how she had
had to repress the longing to re-
turn and snatch it from under
the very nose of the interloper.
Only the physical impossibility
of carrying it away with her
when she left had prevented her
from doing so. Only the lack
of a place to put it —for her son
and his wife had been boarding,
and her sister’s home was full
to the point of congestion—had
prevented her from sending for
it since.
Without further ado she went
into the bedroom and gathered
up her belongings. With lips
pressed firmly together, she
journeyed homeward.
There was no sound of con-
flict after her arrival. But some
time later a cherubic-faced
woman, with painted lips and
rouged cheeks, left hurriedly
in a taxi, accompanied by
numerous suitcases.
WHEN Arthur Burnell re-
turned home, Mary was in
the kitchen dishing up his tea as
if she had never been away.
His stumbling words she cut
short.
“I’ll get you to lift the parrot
back into the parlor after tea,”
she said, “The glass case has
got terribly dirty since I’ve been
away.”
It was the only time she ever
referred to her absence.


where the world sees
YOUR WOOL AT ITS BEST
The unrivalled skill of A.M.L.&F. in displaying your wool shows it off to the
best advantage, when the world’s biggest wool buyers Inspect it;
A.M.L.&F. are acknowledged experts in valuing and lotting, too; that’s why
bidding is confident when “the A.M.L.&F. man” is on the rostrum.
Small clip or large, your wool looks its best and sells at its best in the hands
of A.M.L.&F.
85 Years in the Service of the Man on the Land.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance Coy. ltd.
Inc. in England in 1863,
4 BL1GH STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches at Newcastle, Wagga, Moree, Henty and Hay.
> A 16.22
The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
grinder discs—recommended for shearing-shed work.
11
> *
m
m
4oz., 8oz., 16oz., 1 gallon sizes . . . Hardware and general stores.
BUILD...
with concrete Mocks
Concrete blocks end bricks |
or* the ideal building J
medium when made on a
*Rapid" machine. These
machines will make almost
every type oi brick or block. ,
HOMES
“Rapid” machines also
make curved blocks
>for Silos, Water-tanks,
J etc. Various types oi
Concrete Mixers
available.
SHEDS
• Six models available.
• Hand operated, semi*
automatic.
• No ramming—no waiting
for mixture to Set
• Capacity 3 blocks per min.
• Priced to suit the indivi*
dual home-builder.
Write for illustrated booklet post bee.
Hat! & Pyne Pty. Ltd.
Manufacturers of Cenn.l. Machinery
63a Worn. Rd. Marrlekvlile, N.S.W. LU441
EYE LOTION
For inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H.A.Rosa & Co.Pty. Ltd.Kina StSvdaey
J
Famous British
ENGINES
are
NOW
AVAILABLE
at
REDUCED
PRICES
For immediate delivery contact
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY. LTD.
’PHONE: MA 6311 7-11 MARKET ST., SYDNEY
t ■° r
fy*}
Yoar choice l» CINZANO
VermoulK, whether your taste Is for
.weet or dry. CINZANO Vermouth
gives Just that extra exhilarating tang
to the palate.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO GRAZCOS."
Stock-inspectors.
“J.R.D.”: Never since it was
decided that all stock-inspectors
should be recruited from uni-
versity veterinary graduates has
there been such a shortage of
them, and such a poor prospect
of filling the shortage. The
reason is simple—better salaries
elsewhere. The remedy is
equally obvious, but its applica-
tion contains difficulties, ,
Meantime stock - inspectors
have taken the radical step of
approaching the Arbitration
Court with a log of claims for
increased salaries. There is
opposition. First of all, the P.P.
Boards, the actual employers, de-
clare they can’t afford the
salaries demanded. The fact that
if the new rates were granted the
S.l.’s would be drawing more
money than their confreres and
many of their seniors in the
public service complicates
matters.
The shortage of stock-inspec-
tors is serious. Experienced men
have been resigning in increas-
ing numbers to join proprietary
firms or go into private practice.
The prospect of filling the gaps
is hopeless, and will continue to
be so until the positions can offer
more attractions in the way of
salary, status and future pros-
pects.
Unless the P.P. Boards in-
crease the salaries they can’t stop
the rot, and every vet. with any
initiative will move on. There
is talk of reverting to the old
scheme of appointing glorified
rabbit-inspectors to fill the gaps,
but that would be a retrograde
step, and would tend to drive
every qualified vet. out of the
service. It would be far better
to relieve stock-inspectors of a
lot of work they now have to
do and allow them more time to
act in their veterinary capacity.
Too much time is wasted on
paper-work—filling in forms
and reports—and doing work
that could be handled easily by
any intelligent drover or station-
hand.
Policing stock-routes and re-
serves and travelling stock,
rabbit and noxious-weed eradi-
cation and reporting of defaulters
for prosecution could all be
done by laymen. Far better to
step up the status of the rabbit-
inspector than to reduce the
status of the S.I. Many landmen
complain that they have given up
consulting the stock-inspector on
veterinary matters because he is
always too busy to come out, or
the mileage is too great, or they
can’t locate him when they need
him. Too many stockowners
regard the inspector as a vet.
available to give them free ser-
vice at any hour, and they make
a welter of it.
The S.I. observes certain
ethical considerations where he
is operating in the same area as
a private practitioner. He should
not compete with the latter,
though many S.I.’s use any ex-
cuse to refuse to help stock-
owners with - t.b.-testing and
other jobs when there isn’t a
private vet. within 100 miles.
We need the best vets, we can
get as stock-inspectors, but the
present policy may only result in
leaving a few no-hopers to do
the work. We can get and hold
the right men by offering them
equal opportunities to their con-
freres in private practice. The
second half of the solution is to
make greater use of their
veterinary knowledge and there-
by allow them to service a wider
area by handing over their non-
veterinary work to other em-
ployees.
Machines v. Hand-milking.
“Rooster”: “K.T.’s” com-
ments (B. 23/4/’49) are mainly
true. But I’m afraid that if any
of those “hard-to-milk” speci-
mens got into my herd I’d cull
’em out quick and lively,
machines or no machines. There
are a few breeds which, particu-
larly when crossed, seem prone
to this teat-muscle toughness,
Shorthorns and Friesians—to
mention but two. I think we (/
should stick to the one breed:
Jersey for cream production, *
Friesian or Ayrshire for milk.
There are several ways by
which a cow’s teats, or, rather,
the involuntary muscles in them,
can be made tough. One is by
faulty hand-milking. Hands <
should be thoroughly cleansed F
and softened prior to each milk-
ing. Likewise the udder and
teats. Don’t be afraid of using
vaseline. Milk with an easy in-
duction, with a minimum of
pulling or upward jerking.
Squeeze with a consistent and
equal pressure with either hand.
Milk the back teats first.
Clumsy machine-milking can
also cause toughness and even
mastitis. Pressure should be
constant, and the gauge watched
for under- or over-pressure.
With under-pressure the cups
tend to slip ; the muscles, being
squeezed to unnatural propor-
tions, soon begin to harden.
With over-pressure the muscles
are subjected to a general pulver-
ising which stretches them at
first, then bunches them up into
a ridge at the top end. Finally
a hard ring is formed.
Cups can be left on too long.
Watch the glass indicators. As
soon as the volume of milk
trickles down take off the cups
by gripping them firmly in the
right hand and doubling the suc-
tion-tube with the other hand.
Let the cups gradually slide off.
As for machines changing a
cow’s nature, that is a moot
point. A heifer is either broken-
in to the machines early or not.
One wouldn’t expect an older
animal to take too kindly to it.
From experience I say breaking-
in old cows isn’t worth while.
Influenza in Fowls.
“8.E.H.”: Intestinal influenza
(usually known as black comb)
is a sickness of poultry which
appears to be becoming increas-
ingly prevalent. Scientific re-
search to date has failed to re-
veal the cause.
Symptoms are notably charac-
teristic. A pen of birds ap-
parently quite healthy will leave
practically untouched the morn-
“Well soon knock up a cheque at three quid an acre."
ing wet mash or afternoon grain,
will be disinclined to move
about, and several will mope.
These are distinguished by a
purple-black comb. Nearly all
the birds will have their vent
fluff feathers stained by the
slimy green and white diarrhoea
associated with the sickness.
Prompt medication of the
drinking-water with Epsom salts
at the rate of 2oz. to the gallon
for as long as the birds appear
ill will reduce the mortality. In-
dividual birds who appear more
distressed than the majority may
be given an aspirin tablet three
times a day.
The financial loss is in the
severe lowering of egg produc-
tion, which may.drop from 60
p.c. to 16 p.c, in a very few
days. Once infected, birds
usually suffer only mild sick-
ness after the first attack has
been passed off. When just
coming into lay or in the
first year of lay, is when
they are most susceptible. A
measure of prevention may be
effected by a constant watch for
the staining of the vent fluff-
feathers as mentioned and the
dosing immediately with Epsom
salts, loz. to a gallon of drink-
ing-water.
Pig-mange in the Tropics.
“G. Runter”: Two mites
cause mange in pigs, both highly
infectious, and isolation of in-
fected pigs and of contacts is of
first importance.
If the latter show no symp-
toms after three weeks they can
be considered clean. A lime-
sulphur mixture can be bought
ready mixed, or made by boiling
81b. of unslaked lime with 241 b.
of flowers of sulphur in 30gals.
of water for two hours. Allow
sediment to settle. Dilute the
clear liquid to lOOgals.
The best treatment is three
careful sprayings at five-day in-
tervals. Pigs not responding to
treatment should be killed.
Spraying is much more likely to
be successful if the pig is first
scrubbed with hot, soapy water.
The commoner (sarcoptic) form
of mange is transferable to man
—which makes certain precau-
tions obvious after handling in-
fected pigs. Above all quaran-
tine and disinfect all pigs new
to the piggery and the crates and
sties.
Mechanical Corn-picker.
“He-Ne”: The success of a
mechanical corn-picker imported
by ’ a Copmanhurst (N.S.W.)
farmer named Davey is encour-
aging news to those who would
like to grow more corn but are
hampered by the labor shortage.
In the United States mechanical
pickers are used extensively,
otherwise they could never
harvest the annual acreage of
80,000,000 acres, about six to
seven times Australia’s total
annual wheat plantings.
The machine at Copmanhurst
has been rigged as a corn-picker
only and the husking mechanism
by-passed. The corn is picked
in the husk and elevated into a
two-way bagger and bagged.
Filled bags are dropped out and
later hauled to the barn. See
and Sons, of Carr’s Creek, re-
cently bought a corn-picker, and
are having the machine adapted
along the lines Davey has found
useful.
With the need for more corn-
production for stock-fattening
and the advent of hybrid corn
with its greatly increased yields,
a mechanical picker is the best
news N.S.W. coastal farmers
have hacf for years.
Drenching a Horse.
“Equine”: If it is necessary to
drench a horse and a drenching-
bit is not available, the following
method can be recommended;
Obtain a 'bottle with a long
sloping neck. Pour in the drench
till it is about half-full. Put a
halter on the horse and pass the
free end over a branch or beam
land have an assistant pull the
hqrse’s head to the horizontal,
or high enough to prevent him
throwing the drench out*
Insert the mouth of the bottle
into the horse’s mouth in front
of the molar teeth in an upward
direction: this will cause the
horse to open his mouth. Tilt
the bottle so that a small quan-
tity of the drench runs into the
! horse’s mouth; if he will not
swallow rub the roof of his
mouth with your fingers. Repeat
the operation, giving him time to
swallow after each > mouthful,
until the drench is finished.
Lower the horse’s head imme-
diately if he begins to cough or
if by accident the bottle breaks
in his mouth.
Never give a drench through a
horse’s nostrils, as it will settle
on the lungs and cause
pneumonia. Never drench a
horse if it has strangles, botulism
or paralysis of the throat.
Zebus for N.T.
“Outback”: Agree with
“Clunesman” (B. 23/2/’49) that
a lot will have to be done before
zebus can be introduced into
the N.T., but are the difficulties
insurmountable? In an article in
“The Review of the River Plate”
last year, F. H. Finch stated,
inter alia, that so far as he was
aware Australia had not im-
ported any zebus since 1933,
and it was evident that, unless
she took immediate action,
Argentina would outstrip her in


4?
&
Zi
Wa
GuPiRW^
THE HYGEIA^dTsSOLYENATOR
The self-contained, self-emptying Sanitary System
(Established 1927)
IMITATION IS SINCEREST FORM OF FLATTERY
Beware of imitations similar in appearance hut lacking the internal patent which
makes the Hygeia Dissolvenator so efficient. Intending purchasers
are invited to investigate the integrity of
the Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd., the
bona fides of the Hygeia Dissolvenator,
as well as the value and scope of the
Hygeia Guarantee compared with any
other guarantee.
The Hygeia Guarantee includes 7 years
against corrosion.
Let the record of the 12,000 Dissolven-
ators sold during the past 22 years be
your guide—do not be misled by specious
Statements.
HYGEIA
Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Ĵ
-Established SO years.-
DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual Building,
Queen St., Brisbane. ,,
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Yic.) Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), Edment s Building,
Bundle St., Adelaide. . _ ,
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mclnerney & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
TASMANIA; Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd., Launceston and Hobart.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND.
RE BRIDGET McNAMARA deceased. Re
ELIZABETH McNAMARA deceased.—
PURSUANT to an order of the Supreme
Court of Queensland, the persons claiming
to be next-of-kin of BRIDGET McNA-
MARA, late of ’Calvert in the State of
Queensland, -who died on the eleventh
day of November, 1938, or of ELIZA-
BETH McNAMARA, deceased, of the
same address, who died on the twenty-
fifth day of May, 1943, are to come in
on or before the eighth day of August,
1949, at ten o’clock in the forenoon and
prove their claims either by affidavit or
by oral evidence at the Registry of the
said Court at Brisbane, or in default
thereof they will be peremptorily ex-
cluded from the benefit of the said Order.
PENDER & PENDER, Solicitors, Ipswich.
Town Agents; T. J. PENDER & PENDER,
Solicitors, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Divorce Notice.
IN' THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— Ih Divorce.
TO RONALD CARR late of Wagga
Wagga.—TAKE NOTICE that DAPHNE
YERENA CARR has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3894 of 1948 on the ground
of your desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
22nd June 1949 and obtain a copy of the
petition free of charge from MESSRS.
HERON ROBERTSON PARKHILL &
ROFE, Solicitors, 12 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.—(n.s.) J. DOUGHAN, Acting
Registrar in Divorce.
Personal and Missing Friends.
TO JOHN ALFRED WATKINS formerly
VX134678 Staff Sergeant Torres Force but
now of parts unknown. —TAKE NOTICE
that your wife VALERIE MAE WATKINS
has commenced divorce proceedings
against you on the ground of desertion
Unless you enter an appearance at the
Office of the Prothonotary of the Supreme
Court of Victoria on or before the Twenty-
seventh day of April 1949 and file an
answer in the said office on or before the
Eighth day of May 1949 the suit may
proceed in your absence and you may
be ordered to pay costs. —P. J. RIDGE-
WAY & PEARCE, 379 Collins Street,
Melbourne, Solicitors for the Petitioner.
ERIC UNMACK, of Brisbane, is visiting
Australia early in 1950. Old friends
please write me at 035 Victoria Street,
San Francisco, California, U.S.A.
WILL WILLIAM LEO KELLEHER, for-
merly of “Kilnyana,” Mulwala, New
South Wales, and more recently of 55
Palmerston Street, Albert Park, Victoria,
or any person knowing his whereabouts,
communicate with MR. C. P. SEMMENS,
Solicitor, Maffra, Victoria?
r
?
I J
OPERATIONAL
DATA
SPECIFICATIONS—
Pressed steel welded
members 16“
wheels 7.50 x 16
6-ply tyres Taper
roller bearings
Longitudinal I"
hard-wood decking,
flush at rear,
coaming. Deck—lo'
x 6'.
FEATURES Load
capacity tons—
Load measurements
2-£ yards—Quick re-
lease tipping catch
Loading height
under 3 feet Ad-
justable hitch —
Tubular draw bar.
WEIGHS 7 cwt.
CARRIES 2i TONS!
GRAIN
FREIGHTER
.JU*
TIP RE R T RAWER
NO MANUAL OPERATIONS REQUIRED
Ruggedly engineered to carry
21 tons of tipping material,
the Freighter McGrath “Titan”
tipper can be handled by one
man —it tips with reverse move-
ment of prime mover, returns
to level with forward movement.
Can be pulled by truck, utility
or tractor — an ideal buy
for farmers, orchardisls, small
contractors.
Semi-Trailers and Timber linkers also available, immediate
delivery.
TRAILER SALES
I SERVICE Kill!
TRAILER SALES & SERVICE IS
140-154 Prince's Highway, St. Peters.
Telephones: LA 2803, LA 2804
ILLEY LAMPS
(BURN ORDINARY KEROSENE)
THE MODERN FORM OF PORTABLE LIGHTING
• A-:..-
ATTENTION TO DETAIL
is the characteristic of all British products
TILLEY LAMPS
are British made throughout at Hendon and Cricklewood, England
THE TILLEY LAMP COMPANY LTD. OF ENGLAND
London Offices and Showrooms: 33 SACKVILLE STREET, PICCADILLY, W.I
Australian Representatives:
T. H. BENTLEY, Pty. Ltd.,
123-125 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl
the production of hybrid-cattle
just as she had done with British
breeds. Finch agrees that condi-
tions in the Argentine are far
ahead of Northern Australia. In
the whole of the Northern Pro-
vinces of Argentina he estimates
the carrying capacity at about
90 to 100 cattle per sq. mile,
whereas, Dr. Kelley has given the
carrying capacity in Northern
Australia as varying from two in
the interior to 20 per sq. mile on
the east coast of North Queens-
land.
Finch also refers, however, to
Dr. Kelley’s summing-up in
which he states, “Zebus...,
move freely. Their walking-pace
is fast, and they are not incon-
venienced by breaking into a
jog-trot. This permits them to
travel long distances to water,
and allows them tq graze over a
large area of country, conferring
upon them a great advantage
when feed is scarce and watei-
points far apart. Their habit is
more gregarious than that of
British breeds, and when riled
they are combative. This may be
a disadvantage when they are
being “worked” in yards, but,
together with their habit of stay-
ing together, it affords a high
degree of protection for the
calves. An ability to move freely
is characteristic also of the calves
at an early age, so that they are
seldom far from their dams.... ”
Dr. Kelley is recognised as the
greatest friend the zebu has in
Australia, but while he paints the
best picture possible of his
“babies” the zebus would seem
to deserve more consideration as
potential stockers of the N.T.
than they have received. Only
recently Dr. R. W. Phillips, of
the Agricultural Division of the
U.N.F.A.0., suggested in Can-
berra that types of cattle such
as the Santa Gertrudis, half
Shorthorn-half zebu, might be
used to stock sub-tropical areas
in Queensland and Northern
Australia. The Santa Gertrudis
were evolved by R. J. Kleberg,
jnr., King Ranch, Texas, and he
was awarded an honorary doc-
torate in agriculture for it.
Fruit for Pigs.
“Myrrhee”: When apples,
pears or other fruits are on their
menu, make sure they’re
balanced with protein-rich foods
and minerals. With fruit each
pig from weaning to bacon
weight will need a daily ration of
igal. of separated milk (or £lb.
meatmeal), loz. of a mineral
mixture (four parts ground lime-
stone and one part salt) and 21b.
of crushed wheat, barley or
pollard. They may then be
allowed as much fruit as they
will eat. Boars and dry breeding
sows require about the same
daily allowances of milk (or
meatmeal) and minerals, but
sows suckling litters need up to
2gal. of milk (or -jib. to 11b. of
meatmeal), 2oz. of the mineral
mixture and 61b. or more of
cereals daily. The quantities will
vary according to the size and
condition of sows and litters.
Hints for the Farm.
“Jonman”: Horses that chew
trees, stable-doors, posts, halters
and sticks are lacking mineral
salts in their diet. Paint doors
and halters with a bitter aloes
solution, and see that a piece of
rock-salt is placed in the horse’s
feed-tin. Have a look at the
horse’s mouth and see if the
teeth need filing down or are-
otherwise in need of attention.
“E.H.M.”: Tell “W. Court”
(B. 16/3/’49) that all the juice
from sugar-cane is strained
through l/16in. sieves, then
pumped through superheaters
and reaches the subsiders at a
temperature of 212 deg., where it
remains for some hours before
the juice is filtered. Nothing
organic can survive this process.
Cane-farmers in N.S.W. have
been using filter-press mud for
years and none of them have re-
ported infestation of their farms
by nut-grass.
“Nub”: A cockroach-trap can
be made from a treacle-tin. Into
the open end fit a gauze or card-
board cone with a small opening
(about |in. x fin.) at the apex.
Bait the trap with apple-peelings
or treacle and lay it on its side.
In conjunction with the trap
dust cracks, crevices, etc. Borax,
sodium fluoride or sodium
fluosilicate are all suitable. Suit-
able contact sprays are house-
hold D.D.T. or a kerosene-
pyrethrum fly-spray.
“Myrrhee”: Topsoil for
onions must be friable, with all
tendency to cake taken out of it
by raking in some sifted com-
post, wood ashes or rotted ani-
mal manure. Dust the surface
lightly with super, and sow the
seed thinly, deep, spacing
the drills 4in. apart. When the
plants are well up, thin out to
lin. apart and leave in the seed-
bed until they’re ready to trans-
plant. In Victoria, March-sown
varieties include Early Flat
White, Silverskin and White
Queen —all non-keepers. In
April, Odorless and Early
Globe; May-June, Brown
Globe, and June-July, Australian
Brown and White Imperial.


■.?
&S$ M&A&®is
s V-
mi
■r •
X ' ' "< ' '
v • ' .♦.
*>
mi
.
wtmt
6/128
aim ai a SUVAN!
Best, that is to say, in workmanship and
clean , faithful service.
So good in fact that it does its work
without obtruding on your notice ■»— till
one day it occurs to you to boast “I’ve
had this same pen for 27 years . .
Obtainable from Stationers, Jewellers and Stores
SWAN PENS
MABIE TODD & CO. (AUST.) PTY. LTD., SYDNEY
m
mm
*
v
/
&
P
TOP DOC MEIVS & BOYS* WEAK
ISHtWitYSOEPENDABEE
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO JEAN PHYLLIS FATHER late of
Albion Queensland. —TAKE NOTICE that
EDWARD CHARLES BATHER has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 1023 of 1949
oh the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance In the Divorce Regis-
try Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the 17 th day of June 1949 and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge
from LEWIS C. ABIGAIL, Solicitor, 56
Hunter Street, Sydney.—(l.s.) J.
DOUGH AN, Acting Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO MYRTLE EDNA KELLY.—TAKE
NOTICE that ALFRED JOSEPH KELLY
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 814
of 1949 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards and of habitual drunkenness
and habitual neglect of domestic duties
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you must enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by 7th June 1949
and obtain a copy of the petition with-
out charge from MR. J. H. FISHER,
Solicitor, 160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
—(l.s.) J. DOUOHAN, Acting Registrar
in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
TASMANIA —In Divorce.
TO JOY* KEARY whose present address
is unknown.—TAKE NOTICE that a Peti-
tion has been filed in this Court endorsed
with a notice to you that you are entitled
to apply for leave to appear and answer
the charges in the Petition of IVY
WATSON of 123 Derwent Park Road
Meonah in Tasmania Married Woman
praying for a dissolution of her marriage
with WALTER ARTHUR WATSON o'
Melbourne in Victoria Labourer on the
ground (inter alia) of adultery alleged
to have been committed with you In de-
fault of your so appearing you will not
be allowed to address the Court and
the Court will proceed to hear the said
petition proved and pronounce judgment
in respect thereto AND TAKE FURTHER
NOTICE that for the purposes aforesaid
within Thirty days after the date of this
publication you must apply upon summons
for leave to enter an appearance at the
Principal Registry of the Supreme Court
of Tasmania, Macquarie Street, Hobart. —
(1.5.) J. R. REX, Principal Registrar.
N. 8.; Friends of the abovenamed JOY
KEARY who may see this advertisement
are requested to bring it under her
notice.—JOHNSON MITCHELL AND
LAUGHTON, 38 Elizabeth Street, Hobart,
Solicitors for the Petitioner.
Scuv*,
GLOBITE
TRAVEL CASES.
They're lighter, stronger, longer-
lasting. That's why a Globlta
costs less in the long run.
Mode by
FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
Wore Pleasure
from Mot
r»
&
&
J
CORRECT tyre pressures mean more
than easier riding. They mean safety,
better control, less wear on tyres.
So check your tyre pressures regularly
with the accurate Kismet Tyre Gauge. . .
and when they need more air do the job
in half the time with a Kismet Foot Pump
or Renrut “Quad” Hand Pump. The
unique two-cylinder Supercharger action
makes every stroke unbelievably easy and
at full volume.
KISMEI
eyuytm&d c/aiacleit
Ĵ
J
Ĵ
J
Ĵ
J
Manufactured by
WILLIAM TURNER (Kismet)
LTD., Sheffield, England.
Agent in Australia :
MR. E. G. JONES,
43-49 Hardware St., Melb., C.L,
G.P.O. Box 71.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Name and address must appear on the MS, No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany,
MS. should be addressed to the Editor.
E.P.: Examine it closely, and you’ll
find it a string of hackneyed wise-
cracks R.M.: If you want the
Religious Editor’s suicide on your
conscience keep sending in stories of
that character M.P.: Your forte
seems to be writing “puff” pars for
an undertaker... .A.D.L.: You’ve
miles to go E.G.H.: There’s
something wrong when a story re-
quires a three-page explanatory cover-
ing letter G.P.: At disinterring the
dead you make Jerry Cruncher look
an amateur R.8.J.: No interest
in long, platitudinous, one-sided con-
versation with a sick cattle-dog
Bellerive: Deserves to be dedicated
to the Gov.-Gen.;
C.A.: Write out of your own
experience... .F.W.: It is strangled
in parentheses... .L.S.: It has whis-
kers from here to Tibooburra....
C. 8.: When the wandering stockman
gets a letter from his family saying
that his wife is carrying on with an
Indian hawker we always send him
home for the lick of his. life....
P.T.Y.: Apparently you find it im-
possible to break from the Hebraic-
Aberdonian school of humor....
T.G.: “Come here, son, and sit by
the camp-fire, and I’ll tell you the
story of my life.” Sorry, Dad, we’d
sooner go K.D.:
See if you can’t knock Bill into
better shape... .S.W.; “The Senti-
mental Swagman” adds nothing to
an elderly theme... .W.C.A.: It
should have been kept within the
family circle... .D.D.: In intention,
estimable; in execution, disastrous.
W.E.: The total of prospectors
who have been killed by their mates
in the desert now stands at 37,693.
H.R.: We have a special w.p.b.
padded with cottonwool for such
tender effusions... .P.C.C.: It would
need a steamroller to smooth out
the bumps in it L.M.: It’s not
clear who he was, where he went,
why he was going there or what he
did J.N.R.: Its only merit is the
quotation from Henty Lawson
M.H.D.: Not a story, but a sermon.
C.F.: You should wait for a
decision from the other paper before
sending it here W.J.S.: Been
reading O. Henry? 0.J.: Instead
of smoothly finishing, your sentences
explode into dashes 8.E.F.: No-
thing startlingly original in the
thoughts that the clouds have a silver
lining and the sun will rise tomorrow.
.... W.L.K.: That story is so astound-
ingly bad that it holds a faint, grue-
some fascination... .L,G.C.: Too
long, too many characters and too
many coincidences W.T.C.: Don’t
think you’ll find an editor anywhere
in Australia who would publish them.
. ...G.R.; Your masterpiece remains
locked in its illegibility F.J.: As
flat as a punctured tyre N. 8.:
“My friends have advised me to send
this.” Send us your friends....
K.P.M.G.: For a start, learn to spell.
“Chev.”: The farthings which
fetched 10s. at an auction of
rare coins in Sydney remind me
of a sad error of my childhood.
I discovered in my father’s coin
collection some farthings dating
from the early Georges and
more or less resembling an Aus-
tralian penny. The lollyshop in
the next street was kept by a
shortsighted old lady, and it was
always enveloped in a semi-twi-
light, being lighted through a
dusty window. These twin facts
nagged at me for some days
until one evening I took one of
the coins, hied me to the shop
and emerged with a couple of
bull’s-eyes. My initial attempt
was so successful that I careered
faster and faster down the mud-
slide of crime until my father’s
collection was so depleted that
it couldn’t fail to attract notice.
Coming in to dinner one evening
I was confronted with a row of
unsmiling faces, and I instantly
knew that my thefts had been
discovered. The pangs of
conscience weren’t mitigated by
the later discovery that the old
lady wasn’t too blind to know
the value of the coins. She sub-
sequently told me that she would
readily have given me fourpence
apiece for them.
In trotting events at the showgrounds
On summer Saturday nights
Young and old assemble
Beneath the electric lights.
In trotting events at the showgrounds
Big money is lost and won.
’Tis win and lose in all games
When all is said and done.
Eager sports at the showgrounds
Bet to their heart’s content,
An attractive sight to witness
Is a popular trotting event.


Thousands of lucky people ail round
the world as well as in Australia will make a
wonderful discovery this Easter. They will find
what a thrill it is to link up with the modern way
of writing ... to write with the point that glides
like a ball . . . that writes instantly and dries as
it writes . . . that's smooth as velvet . . . that
makes lots of carbon copies. All these lucky
people will be given not merely ball point
pens but Biro, the highest quality British
Ball Point Pen.
BIRO REFILLS
—the vital link in the chain
of Ball Point Service ...
Biro refills are obtainable wherever
the Biro pen is sold; every refill is
guaranteed to keep on writing until
the ink is exhausted. Refill inserts
for Biro Minor in 4 colours. 3/9 each.
"Magnum" refills for Standard and
Automatic models. 3/9 each. Refill
Adapters for Automatic Models
free.
tJiro
(Left) Standard Biro
in maroon, dove grey
or black cases
55/-.
(Centre) Automatic
Biro, protected point
• 69/-.
(Right) Biro Minor,
in red, green, blue
and blue-black
complete with cap
-6/-.
THE BRITISH BALL POINT PEN
Patent No. 122073, dated Dec. 8, 1943. Other patents pending.
BP32/16
ORLIK
:;o ; ca'
p j?
1
II
mm
S, V
ORM PRO
FULLY GUARANTEED
LIGHTS EVERY TIME
Available at all leading
tobacconists and stores
Australian Agents:
Maurice Newstead Pty. Ltd., Sydney.
Leonard F. Newstead Pty. Ltd., Melb.
SMOKERS
PIPE TOBACCOS THAT ARE
BLENDED TO GIVE
SATISFACTION TO ALL.
HOUSE OF MURPHY. A blend of
the highest grade of leaf to give a
cool smoke of satisfaction that men
prefer. 22/- per lb. Posted.
A.A.A. HIELTOP. A blend of
Australian, American and African.
20/- per lb. Posted.
WINSTON READY RUBBED
CIGARETTE TOBACCO. Greatly
Improved by better blending of
mature leaf. 24/- per lb. Posted.
Special Quotes to Retailers jor lots 20lb.
weight or over.
Write to: Cash Order Dept.,
Hillman Trading Co.,
Commercial Road, Brisbane.
Postage paid on Cash with order.
Postage extra on C,O.D. Orders.
GREATEST TYRE VALUE
EVER OFFERED
mm*
RIB.
ALL-
WEATHER
WIDER, FLATTER TREAD
More rubber on the road
gives extra traction which
means cleaner starts, safer
stops and longer tread life
with the new Goodyear De
Luxe Tyres.
HEAVIER SHOULDER
New shoulder design makes
new De Luxe Tyres huskier
yet more uniformly resilient.
This means more even tread
wear—longer tyre life.
STRONGER CORD BODY
Stronger cord means extra
strength in the body. This
permits a heavier tread, en-
sures greater safety and
longer tread wear.
MORE NON-SKID MILEAGE
Millions of miles of road
tests have proved that these
new Goodyear De Luxe
Tyres give even longer mile-
age than the famous Good-
year Tyres they replace.
J
Tioo great tread designs: The
super-safe, super-traction all-
weather, arid the popular,
quiet-rolling, long-wearing rib.
good/vear
w
wmm ■
TYRES
CVS-A6S
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM’S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“Fashion has lacked neither imagi-
nation nor originality.”
— Woman’s paper.
Nor a sense of humor.
4* 4* 4*
“All varieties of fish were in light
supply at the whalesale fish market
today.”— Melbourne “Herald.”
We always thought it was
shark.
4* 4* 4*
“It’s when a woman’s quiet a
man’s got to worry.”
— Woman’s paper.
For by then she’s even lost
the power of speech.
4* 4* 4*
“For sale: Brown winter maternity
frock, well made, new, £3; men’s
cream trousers, waist 34.”
—Suburban paper.
Made to order for an expect-
ant father.
“Make quite sure that your clothes
flatter your figure.”— Woman’s paper.
Don’t let them put just any-
thing over you.
4* 4*
“When Ah Sam, a Chinese seaman
of the Suva, reported that his
clock was stolen, Sydney wharfies
subscribed and gave him a new one.”
Not, however, before it was
regulated to “slow.”
4* 4* 4*
“Business people urgently require
flat or cottage, 2-3 bedrooms, furn.
or unfurn., willing to buy fur. or
pay rent.” — Suburban paper.
Some skunk will probably
demand key-money as well.
Penalty Rates?
“Noah did not survive the Flood
by building a Utopia. He worked
overtime and built an ark.”
—Melbourne “Argus.”
You have to hand it out to
Noah,
For when he built the famous
Ark
And worked from daylight until
dark
He proved himself a dinkum
goer.
With axe and saw, with nail and
hammer
He toiled the good old-fashioned
way,
Unlike some unionists today
Who hearken Jo the Comma
clamor.
So much we know; and yet it’s
funny
How often it occurs to me
To wonder if he drew a fee
Inclusive of wet-weather money.
D. H. E.
Conversation Piece.
The last of the Final Extra
editions of the Great Daily had
finished its run. The big
machines had spun slowly to a
stop, the operators had drifted
into the night, and a strange
silence had fallen upon a scene
which so short a time before had
been a hub of throbbing, hectic
energy.
Suddenly, from the darkened
composing-room, there came an
agonised stirring a$ a Typo-
graphical Error struggled into an
upright position.
“Gripes!” he gloomed to no-
body in particular. “I feel as
if I’ve been battered all over.”
“You have,” remarked one of
the semi-colons. “You came
down as ‘bigger’ in the copy
and by the time they picked up
the linotype bloke’s mistake
you’d got as far as the stereo.
They had to give you the works.”
As one by one the Famous
Features, which do so much to
keep the mental age of the
G.D.’s readers down to 11, began
to have their say the scene bn
the “stones” became quite *an
animated one.
“What about me?” grumbled
the half-tone block of a hard-
faced horse-trainer. “I’m used
.so often as a stock fill-up for
the sports page because some-
thing seems to have gone wrong
with the paper’s god, the
Leviathan Punter, that I’m
always getting inked —yet I can
never get so much as a ‘glow’
up. An’ it’s nearly time they
took me original up to the
etchers again for a new block.
Why I stand for it I don’t
know. I must be just a dope.”
“Talking of that,” put in the
Banner Headline, “I can’t make
it out —two whole days have
gone by without a Swab Sen-
sation to push an International
Crisis off the front page,”
“I believe they’re calling a
“Is your Mummy in. Sonny?"
special directors’ meeting to dis-
cuss that,” said Plonkie as she
looked at Ragwood flying
through the door she was hold-
ing open, “It’s got ’em worried.
For a paper who’s motto is ‘A
Sensation a Day’ to have to go
for almost a week with nothing
juicier to sell than a teenager
who shot her father because he
wouldn’t let her boy-friend take
her to the Mountains for the
week-end is terrible. There
hasn’t even been a major Holly-
wood divorce, a gangster’s
funeral to splash three columns
on with a photo of the four-
hundred quids’ worth of
wreaths, or a lottery-winner who
can be photographed bursting
into tears as the reporter
passes her the glad tidings. If a
double-murder doesn’t break
soon, or Dr. Evatt doesn’t create
a sensation by failing to praise
the Soviet at a U.N. General
Assembly meeting, the paper’s
circulation’ll be taking a nose-
dive. And if Ragwood and I
were to go on strike the rag’d go
broke. Things are crook.”
' “You’re telling me!” cut in a
House Ad. lugubriously. “I’m
being overworked lately, and
what do I get out of it?
Slammed into the page at a
minute’s notice and always
broke. There’s nothing in it.”
“What are you growling at?”
snapped the Stop Press heading,
“I’m always in the. red.”
“Instead of all this whinge-
ing,” piped up a row of stars,
“have you ever stopped to think
we’ve all got a lot to be thank-
ful for? We might be a bit light
on for a corker sensation now
and again—after all, we can’t
hope every day to play up little
Shirley, who has two hundred
police searching for her in
underworld vice-dens and later
have her found in the newsreel
theatre where her mother for-
got she’d left her—but at least
we’ve never yet had to go to
press without the usual state-
ment respectfully requested of a
Commo union secretary on his
attitude to the latest current
strike.”
“You know,” simpered the
25-year-old block of a 55-year-
old Fatuous Society Beauty,
“I’m having my two-hundredth
run tomorrow!”
After the chorus of congratu-
lations had died down the Date
Line asked a Gossip Column
why there had been no photo of
a grinning Beach Beauty for two
days.
“Aw, ask Blorothy Blix,” said
a Slug morosely.
There came a sentimental sigh
from the Syndication Panels.
“Tell your girl-friend without
delay frankly what your past has
been and that you love her
deeply, and I am sure everything
will turn out well,” she said
gently.
“Listen here,” broke in a
Leading Article importantly. I
think”
“Ar, shut up and go and
scratch yourself with another
platitude,” said the Goudy Type.
“Nobody takes the slightest
notice of what you think!”
Bo.
Hour-glass Figure.
“Barmaids must have ‘personality
plus’ to attract customers back to a
hotel.” — General secretary of the
Federated Liquor Trades Employees’
Union.
What is she like, the girl who
beams
Behind the bar, the sort one
dreams
About, and for whose smile
A drinker is content to while
The time away, though thirst has
gone ?
Has she the kind of eyes that
shone
And beckoned in fair Helen's
face ?
And does she move with old-
time grace.
Or is her glamor at its best
If she’s curvaceous like Mae
West
And boasts a bosom just as good
As any built in Hollywood ?
Well, speaking for myself Td
say
That I’ll continue on my way
And not regard her to my taste
Unless she has a lady’s waist.
BERT.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
District Development Leagues
In considering the tragedy of the drift
from the country to the cities too little
has been said about the part which the
country towns themselves might play in
defeating the drift. I recently met the
secretary of the Mildura District Develop-
ment League and learned what that or-
ganisation was doing for the Sunraysia
district. The league has only 129 sub-
scribers, and its total income last year
was £l3BO.
What is being done in Mildura and
district can be done in other less-pros-
perous areas. All that is -needed is the
public spirit to create development
leagues with similar aims and drive.
The league there has seven main ob-
jects, all good: (1) Establishment of new
industries, (2) expansion of existing in-
dustries, (3) stimulation of all forms of
farming, (4) land-settlement for ex-
servicemen, (5) housing and accommoda-
tion, (6) compilation of reliable statis-
tics, (7) promotion of the case of the
Sunraysia district in the greater scheme
of Murray Valley Development,
That this programme is being carried
out is evidenced by the fact that the
league has encouraged the establishment
of seven new industries and a branch of
Melbourne University in the district. And
that after only three years of operation.
Among these new businesses are a shoe
company, a fruit-cannery, a seeded-raisin
factory and two plaster factories.
Existing industry has been expanded
in three instances, and the housing plan
has taken the form of the First Mildura
Co-operative Housing Society.
The league was able to bring members
of the Overseas Food Corporation to the
district and show them what was being
done and could be done to help Britain.
It has been responsible for an application
for 2000 acres on the N. S. Wales side
of ’the Murray for carob-bean planta-
tions.
There is no pie without the league’s
finger in it, provided the pie will be of
benefit to the Sunraysia district. Result?
It might be pure coincidence, but Mil-
dura is one of the few country cities
holding its own against the drift to the
capitals. Although the surrounding shires
have dropped in population over the last
few years, that of Mildura proper has in-
creased. — Momokan (Q.).
Cheaper Books
I doubt if the collective retail price of
a novel or non-fiction work published in
monthly parts (B. 23/3/’49) would pan
out much less than Bs. 6d. or 9s. 6d. A
likelier proposition to meet the average
reader’s means would be an Australian
counterpart of low-priced editions such
as “Penguin”—works of merit printed on
cheap paper (in small type when neces-
sary), and bound between paper covers.
Such books damage easily, of course,
and don’t improve the look of the book-
shelf, but stiffened wallet-type, slip-on
covers in a range of colors with sticker
titles could be provided separately and
cheaply, permitting a trim uniform col-
lection on one shelf of the bookcase.
These cheap-yet-neat editions might
give new Australian authors their chance
to become established, and provide an
enterprising publisher with a satisfactory
answer to the bookseller’s contention that
few Australian writers can compete with
bigger English and American names at
the same high retail price.—P. O.
MacCabe (N.S.W.).
Railway Expansion
More important duplication tasks face
the Vic. Railways Department than im-
provement to the metropolitan cities of
Ballarat, Bendigo and Geelong (B.
23/3/’49).
Work is in progress to duplicate the
Gippsland line to Moe. When completed
—it will take some years to finish —this
will increase substantially the briquette
supply to Victoria, allowing a greater
output for the State’s thermal power-
stations and a corresponding increase in
production, particularly in the winter
months.
Until this is completed other duplica-
tion is a “wipe-off.” Duplication of the
Bendigo line suggested by “Plain Aus-
tralian” will be quite unnecessary. Dual
tracks have linked the “Golden City of
the North” with the metropolis for the
last 70 years. The greater portion of the
other two lines is duplicated, allowing
express services both ways.
Electrification of these provincial lines,
although practical to Geelong, is impos-
sible to the other two cities. Plans have
been prepared to extend the electric
service, at present terminating at
Footscray, to Geelong.
The steep grades on the Ballarat and
Bendigo line (some of the toughest rail
pulls in the country) will forever limit
the line to the steam-train. Few of the
huge diesel-electric locomotives being im-
ported shortly for the Melbourne-Moe
line will be able to pull any kind of a
load up these hills.
But what’s wrong with the steam-train?
It’s still the best universal system of rail
transport in the world, and likely to hold
its place for another half-century.—
Waddlin’ Willie (Vic.).
Snowy River Scheme
There is little, so far, to support the
proposal of “Riverina Rita” (B. 16/3/’49)
that an independent Federal authority
such as the T.V.A. should control the
Snowy River scheme. The T.V.A. is one
of the greatest examples in the world of
co-operation, but securing the co-opera-
tion of Governments along the Tennessee
Valley would be a far easier task than
obtaining the willing consent of both
N, S. Wales and Victoria.
Every State capital concerned with the
T.V.A. is situated very close to the river,
and is thus immediately interested in the
project. But Sydney, 300 or 400 miles
distant from the scene, and Melbourne,
about half as far, are not immediately
concerned with the problems of the
“Keep your feet dry, I say, and it's half the battle .”
Murray. A Federal organisation such as
T.V.A. would be very lucky indeed to
obtain their co-operation.
A new State capital would probably
provide the stimulus essential for the
plan’s success. —J. B. R. (N.S.W;).
Those who point to the success of the
T.V.A. and suggest the creation of an-
other such Federal body to control the
Snowy River scheme don’t realise the
technical implications. The only
organisation with the technical know-
ledge and skill necessary to carry
out this vast undertaking is the N S.
Wales Department of Public Works.
A Commonwealth authority can only
construct the works by making use of
the staff and equipment of the N.S.W,
department—the corresponding Common-
wealth department consists of nothing
more than an army of clerks equipped
with filing-cabinets. Even the McGirrs
of N. S,. Wales are unlikely to tolerate
wholesale transference of skilled workers
and technical equipment to the Common-
wealth. — Karuah (N.S.W.).
A Dingo’s Dinner
A dingo’s dinner now costs the wool-
grower in n.-w. Queensland approxi-
mately four times as much as it did be-
fore the war. That is calculated on the
value of sheep and the wool they grow
and not on any increase in the dog’s
appetite—although he’s had a, good time
for the last 10 years since doggers took
on soldiering or wharf-lumping.
The loss to the sheepman is Aus-
tralia’s loss, so the powers-that-be have
decided to build a dog-netting fence for
several hundred miles to keep dogs up in
the hills and off the sheep country. Esti-
mated cost is £400,000, and the wool-
grower, of course, will have to pay for
the maintenance of the fence. Presum-
ably he will also have to pay the interest
bill, reckoned at £16,000 a year, and it’s
not unlikely that he’ll be stung for the
cost of replacement over the years. At
any rate, it’s hard to see how he will ever
be paying less than his share of £*30,000
a year.
Most sheepmen believe that if £30,000
or thereabouts is to be spent on dingos it
would be much better to offer a bonus
of £3 a dog caught anywhere in the dis-
trict, both inside and outside the sheep
country. Doggers would attack the pest
in its breeding-places in the country of
the cattleman —who does not care if they
breed in millions—as well as among the
sheep.
If bonuses were paid on 10,000 scalps
in a year the grazier would be delighted.
Although it’s unlikely that such a harvest
would ever be reaped, a relentless attack
carried on for a few years would be far
more effective than any fence. —
Warrigal (Q.).
That Wheat Agreement
Australian wheatgrowers are not happy
about the terms of the new international
wheat agreement completed at Washing-
ton. The agreement is reported to pro-
vide for a maximum price of 180 cents
and a minimum price of 150 cents a
bushel in 1949-50, dropping 10 cents a
year to 120 cents in 1952-53.
Farmers in Australia call the agree-
ment an iniquity, because there is no
necessity for exporters to agree during
the next four years, since the Food and
Agricultural Organisation has already set
up machinery for a just distribution of
available wheat supplies. Farmers state
that the time for an agreement should
be at the end of this four-year period and
not at the beginning of it.
The agreement will do nothing but
depress prices over the next four years,
and the industry will be reduced to the
desperate pre-war days. The only reply
to lower prices but increased production
costs is over-production, and that means
repetitive cropping and consequent soil
depletion.
But wheatfarmers have only them-
selves to blame. They voted for the
Pollard-Graham “stabilisation” scheme,
and this is the first fruit of that abomina-
tion. Under the new agreement (last
year’s was not ratified by sufficient coun-
tries, so lapsed) Australia’s export quota
will be 80,000,000 bushels annually,
Canada 203,000,000, U.S.A. 168,000,000,
France 3,000,000 and Uruguay 1,000,000.
Russia and Argentine declined to enter
the agreement. — He-ne (N.S.W.).
Population Drift
Census figures of the population drift
(B. 23/3/’49) tell an alarming story, but
do not show the full magnitude of migra-
tion to the city because they do not
take into account the natural increase.
The increase of population of any dis-
trict is equal to the preponderance of
the number of births over the number
of deaths, plus the net gain (or loss)
through migration.
Expressed in other terms, the total
migration is equal to the increase of
population less the natural increase.
Thus the population of the Southern
Tablelands district declined in 14 years
by only 575, but as the natural increase
during that period was 7251, the total
migration from the district was 7826.
The census shows that north and north-
west N. S. Wales have gained 4665 people.
But as the total natural increase was
79,990, the net loss by migration was
75,325. Similarly, the south-east lost
13,653, the central-west 63,526, and the
Murray-Darling 45,875.
Sydney, on the other hand, increased
its population by 349,435, but as the
natural increase was only 147,034, the
total migration to the city was 202,292.
The natural increase was only 10.3 p.c.,
but the increase by migration was 14.2
p.c.
Economic decentralisation is the only
means of combating this evil. But with-
out some form of Government assistance,
that is never likely to happen. The pre-
requisite of economic decentralisation is
political decentralisation, and new States
are the logical means of bringing that
about.—J. B. R. (N.S.W-).
Local-government Revenue
Local authorities in Queensland and
other States are complaining that their
sources of revenue are too limited to meet
ever-increasing costs, and Brisbane’s Lord
Mayor (Aid. J. B. Chandler) has called
for a commission of inquiry to find
other avenues of revenue.
In Australia, local authorities depend
mainly on rating based on the unim-
proved value of land or charges for ser-
vices. Other sources of revenue are pro-
vided by fees for permits and licences.
Government subsidies on approved loan
works and profits from trading under-
takings.
Suggested new methods of local-gov-
ernment taxation include transfer pf
control of land-tax from the central
Government to local government, the
handing-over of petrol-tax proceeds by
the Commonwealth, greater Government
subsidies and even control of sales-tax, as
has been done in certain cities in U.S.A.
It is a safe bet that the central Govern-
ment will not vacate any part of the taxa-
, tion field in the interests of local, gov-
ernment.
Before possible alternative methods of
local-government taxation are investi-
gated a check-up should be made to see
whether local authorities really need
other sources of revenue or whether they
have fully availed themselves of their
existing taxation powers. In Queensland,
for example, the Local Government Act
permits the levy of a maximum general
rate of Is. 6d. in the £, but it also permits
the levy of additional rates or charges for
such services as sewerage, water-supply,
etc., and separate rates to provide loan
redemption and interest payments.
Few, if any, local authorities in
Queensland have availed themselves fully
of the rating powers conferred by the Act.
In fact, the City of Brisbane and certain
other Queensland cities which have
clamored loudly on this matter have a
general rate in the vicinity of Is. from
which loan redemption and interest
charges, as well as general expenditure,
are met.
All of which leaves one wondering
whether the local authorities, in failing
to levy rates sufficient to pay their way,
are not avoiding their responsibility and
trying to pass the taxation buck to the
central Government. — Efftee (Q.).
Vote-splitting
In the Concord (N.S.W.) by-election
the Liberal candidate won narrowly,
having received an unexpectedly large
share of the Lang candidate’s second
preferences. Official “Labor” therefore
claims that it would have won hand-
somely in a straight-out fight without
the complicating presence of the Lang
contestant.
Exactly the same argument is used by
the Liberal and Country parties. Three-
party contests, they say, should be
avoided, because when one of the non-
Labor candidates is eliminated there is
always a “leakage” of preferences to the
common enemy.
This reasoning is plausible, but it rests
on an unproven assumption. Suppose
Liberal, CP. and Labor are contending
for a seat, the Liberal man is eliminated
and, after the first count, say 40 per cent,
of his supporters’ second preferences go
to Labor. In what sense are those votes
lost by the C.P.?
As the voters concerned actually put
the C.P. man last on their ballot-papers
—after both Liberal and Labor —what
grounds could there be for believing they
would have put him first—before Labor
—if there had been no Liberal to vote
for?
Unless that objection can be met elec-
tors should not be deprived of a choice
between anti-socialist candidates merely
through fear of vote-splitting. The real
danger is not that second preferences may
be lost. It is that first preferences may
be lost if Liberal and Country parties
carry their rivalry so far as to give the
impression that each regards its own sec-
tional success as more important than the
overthrow of the Socialist menace.—**
Ellis D. (N.S.W.).


Yet this little book has a charm all its
own, and not only for young readers. If
we put this down partly to our surprise at
the unusualness of the usual, we must put
down the rest to Mr. Heddle’s simple and
dear writing, his absorption in his subject,
his insistence that you shall see the com-
plete life of a ship’s apprentice, and have
explained to you the difference between
,“by the wind” and “full and bye,” be-
tween a clean bill of health and a liability
to quarantine, and between ropes and
sheets; how a sailing-ship is taken out,
sailed and towed in; the variety and
vagaries of trade-winds; how a sailing-
ship is loaded at San Francisco, and what
with ; the history and purpose of chrono-
meters —all taken effortlessly into the
narrative, so that before you are half-
way through the book, you feel that you
are an apprentice on board yourself.
There is nothing so interesting as tech-
nical matters when they are clearly and
simply stated by an expert, and Mr.
Meddle, besides being an expert seaman,
is long out of his apprenticeship to the
craft of writing.
Gilding the Rosa.
The dilemma of the gifted Australian
writer is that he can either go to London
and become a successful purveyor of the
ruling literary fashion, or he can maintain
his integrity on his own soil and—well,
here we are.
And if some who from choice or neces-
sity have stayed here should be in need
of consolation, they will find it in Colin
Roderick’s biography of Rosa Praed {ln
Mortal Bondage, Angus and Robertson),
how a beautiful spray of wattle withered
under its generous London gilding.
Rosa Caroline Murray-Prior was born
at Bromelton station on the Logan River,
Queensland, in 1851, in a slab hut with
a bark roof. Her father, younger son of
a Dublin family, had been driven, by
hard pioneering conditions and diseases
among stock, from station after station.
He became Queensland’s second Post-
master-General ; and when the job was
made political secured and held Marroon
cattle station, 20,000 acres on the upper
Logan.
Thus, as Mr. Roderick shows in admir-
able detail, Rosa Murray-Prior grew up
among all the problems of pioneering
squatters, knew what it was to fear the
natives who massacred complete families
of her father’s friends, and at the same
time, as a teenager, had an inside view
of the manceuvrings of early Queensland
Parliaments. In 1872 she became the first
Cabinet Minister’s daughter to be married
m Queensland, the Governor, Lord
Normanby, and the Executive Council
attending in a body.
Her husband, Campbell Praed, of an
English family well entrenched in banks
and breweries, took her to Port Curtis
Island, 500 square miles of mosquitoes
and monotony ; and after two years, dur-
ing which she bore him a daughter, he
gave up hope of the quick fortune for
which he had come to Australia, brought
her to London, and then to Rushden
Hall, Northants.
After the birth of her third child, her
natural coldness having been reinforced
by her husband’s infidelities, it was
agreed that her husband should continue
going elsewhere, while she should write
novels. For a biographer like Frances
Winwar, this would provide pages and
pages of self-questioning, doubt and
anguish of the soul. Mr. Roderick may
be presumed to have had plenty of
material for such an exercise, but his
summary is terse;
... .as a wife she was just as faithless to
her bond as was her husband. Her faith-
lessness was negative where his was positive.
How admirable this is! It tells us all
we need to know, and keeps the emphasis
for the big scene: for the important man
in the life of an authoress is not her
husband or her lover, but her publisher.
Her husband, anxious to please where
it was allowable, got her first book taken
to Dickens’s publishers. Chapman and
Hall. They passed it on to none less
than George Meredith, who sent for her
and, after going through the book with
her point by point, turned it down.
Deeply impressed by Meredith, she
hastened to write another novel. Mere-
dith cast it out: “There is really no
story in it”*. . .
Her husband took her to George
Bentley with this second novel. He turned
it down, but asked to see any further
writing she might do. Then Chapman
and Hall changed their minds; and the
second novel, as An Australian Heroine,
by R. Murray-Prior, was published in
1880. Inspired by this success, she re-
wrote the first novel which Meredith had
turned down, and offered it to Bentley,
who accepted it.
Then George Bentley got to work on
Rosa Praed.
Policy and Passion, as it eventually
appeared, is the story of a Queensland
Premier who was carrying on a love-
affair with the wife of a member of Par-
liament while his daughter was being
seduced by an Englishman of high station
and low resources.
Bentley, as publisher to the Queen,
was not going to have too much of this.
His motto was “tone down, Tone Down,
tone down.” He wrote letter after letter.
The Premier’s mistress was permitted to
receive a dress to go to a party in, but
the part where the Premier went to order
the dress was cut out. Nor, when the
Premier visited Mrs. Valiancy at her
home, were they to be permitted to remain
very long together before the husband’s
arrival. Mr. Bentley feared that they
might act like human beings;
“All the wine-drinking and the tempta-
tions of her personal appearance are so
realistic as to leave a very unpleasant
impression.”
As to the affair between young Honoria
and Barrington, the English cad, it. must
not be allowed to go on in the house —
Mrs. Praed dutifully' removes it to the
bamboos in the Botanical Gardens, and
finishes it with a scream heard from out-
side Barrington’s residential. Of the
“animal quality of Barrington’s conver-
sation,” against which Bentley set his
face, nothing remains in the published
book, nor any occasion for the remark
that “Honoria is occasionally described
in such a way as to make one feel that
she is too open to Barrington’s conduct.”
As Mr. Roderick says:
We would like to have those vanished
original proofs, for they might help us to
estimate how much Bentley is to blame for
robbing the story of its native tang. What
he did was to force Mrs. Praed into the
contemporary mould of polite fiction
against which her soul rebelled.
Anyone who, under the spell of Mr.
Roderick’s persuasion, reads the book
will agree with him in regretting those
vanished proofs. As it stands, Policy and
Passion is a fine construction. It was
rewritten under the influence of George
Meredith. “How could a man make love
like that?” he had asked the young
authoress. “We want to write for men
and women, not for the penny million.”
It would seem that she had followed his
advice. But, rewritten once more for
George Bentley, it became once more a
“penny-million” book, the facts still true
of Queensland, the feeling at every point
of crisis debased to the artificiality of
melodrama.
This is about the first time we have had
any detailed, technical and documented
account of what happens to the Colonial
or Dominion author who goes to London,
and it is extraordinarily interesting.
Observe that Mrs. Praed is not broken
by the process: she is made—into a suc-
cessful author. Nor does she forsake
Australia; she writes many more novels
with a Queensland setting, and in his
Twenty Australian Novelists Mr.
Roderick is moved to:
deplore the unjustified but loudly-
trumpeted hostility of a good many present-
day reviewers towards early Australian
writers like Mrs. Praed for their alleged
lack of “Australianism”.., .To have given
posterity the witty and graphic picture of
her native colony that may be found in her
books is an achievement of no small sig-
nificance in the history of Australian
literature.
Nor did Mrs. Praed give up the psycho-
logical and sexual novel. On the contrary,
her next (unpublished) book drew an in-
dignant refusal from Bentley, and the
book after that was a short shocker, with
something of the impact of our present-
day tough-guy povels, about a beautiful
Russian - whose lover died at midnight in
her bedroom in an English country house
where they are both guests, and who is
afterwards delivered secretly of his child
by a doctor friend in the same country
house. Mr. Bentley raised horrified
hands:—
heroine is made engaging. She is
aoie to hold her own in society and yet she
is rotten to the core.... I cannot reconcile
it to my conscience to publish the book,
even though I know that I shall be losing
the chance of making money.”
Chapman and Hall had no such
scruples; Nadine established Mrs. Camp-
bell Praed as a rival of “Ouida,” and at a
dinner-party where Mrs. Praed was a
guest, Edward, Prince of Wales, advised
Mrs. Gladstone to read the book, but not
to allow it into the children’s hands.”
She gave up nothing, she used all her
materials and all her talents; but her
powers seem never again to have been
united as in Policy and Passion; they split
up into pleasant novels with a Queens-
land background, and novels with slightly
sinister and sexual themes about fashion-
able England. As she recedes further and
further from Queensland, she is forced
more and more into herself, and would
seem to come closest to the full use of
her resources in such an autobiographical
story as The Scourge Stick, the study of
a young actress who is revolted by her
old millionaire husband and takes up
writing.
From Queensland she retires into her-
self, and finally from herself she retires
into the complete unreality of spiritualism,
and at the age of 48 sets up house with
Nancy Harward, a medium, aged 35. Mrs.
Praed is convinced that in a former life
she was a priestess of Demeter, while in
another former life Nancy Harward was
a Roman slave-girl. Working on the
revelations made in trances by Nancy,
Mrs. Praed writes the novel of Roman
life, Nyria, which she claims to be an
authentic memory of Rome as Nyria
the slave-girl had seen it.
Students of ancient Rome praised the
way in which the old town had been
brought to life, and the spirit of Professor
Max Muller was heard at a seance re-
marking that “This is a genuine case of
reincarnation.” The present-day reader,
turning over the pages, may offer a sen-
tence chosen at random as reason for not
going any further into the matter:-
“Cheer thee, Nyria. Thou shall see us
when thou accompaniest Paulinus to the
Games, where we shall make sport for
Caesar. ’
Perhaps from some spiritual rest-
home in the universe, the old lady guided
this random choice; for that is her signi-
ficance to us here and now; richly
endowed to write great Australian novels,
she accompanied Campbellius to the
Games and made sport for Caesar.
To all of which certain objections may
be made. If she had stayed here, would
she have been given a freer hand by the
Australian publishers of those days?
Would she even have been heard of?
Suppose Bentley broke her: was it only
accident that Meredith did not persevere
with her? How much would her
physical make-up have determined her
literary development, in England, in Aus-
tralia or anywhere?
In wondering what her writing might
have been, one is liable to lose sight of
Rosa Praed as she was, and as Mr.
Roderick presents her : an extraordinary
woman, a remarkable Australian, With
her we meet some of the most famous
people of her age; “Ouida,” sending for
her from her hotel; Mrs. Bernard Beere,
rehearsing her play, “Ariane”; Justin
McCarthy, collaborating with her in
books; Sir Richard and Lady Burton
entertaining her in Algeria; Mohini the
mystic talking about occultism over the
teacups ; Secretary of State Merivale dis-
posing of the Empire’s aborigines with a
joke and a shrug ; Edward de FonManque,
making love to her in delicate and diplo-
matic metaphors; and the nature-spirit
Netch-a-ka-koom-tof who had much to
say to her through Nancy on the coast of
Monaco.
Mr. Roderick has presented it all so
neatly and unobtrusively that you would
hardly think he was there at all, a spiritual
quality which must set the final seal of
Rosa Praed’s approval upon him if, from
air or in some reincarnated form, she
surveys his completed labors. For now
Mr. Roderick is the most important man
in her life, more important than Camp-
bell Praed, George Meredith, George
Bentley, Justin McCarthy or Edward de
Fonblanques—he is the only man living
who has read all her books.
R. McC.
Reviewed Briefly.
The Work of the Bridge Builders: J.
Gordon Peirson (Pen-in-Hand Press,
Oxford). The important thing about
such a work is, of course, whether or
not the Bridge is mentioned, and in what
terms. J. Gordon Peirson says, “The
magnificent structure spanning Sydney
Harbor is the third-largest bridge in the
world, irrespective of type, and may well
lay claim to being the greatest engineer-
ing achievement of our time” ; so all is
very well with J. Gordon Peirson. The
book, which has an introduction by Pro-
fessor A. M. Low, is intended both for
the engineer and the layman, and, besides
the Bridge, mentions several other credit-
able structures in other parts of the
world.
Furnishing on a Budget: Edna Horton
Lewis (Georgian House). Mrs. Lewis
writes on interior decoration for Mel-
bourne “Herald,” from which a good
deal of this book is reprinted. The furni-
ture and decorations of actual flats and
cottages—including an old stable-loft
converted into a flatette and furnished
with a table bought from Commonwealth
Disposals for £1 ss. 2d. —are discussed
and illustrated with photographs.
Dents have reissued in Everyman’s
Library Byron’s Poems in three volumes,
set single-column instead of in the
cramped and crowded double-column
format of the 1910 edition. Though the
paper is thin and lets the type show
through from the back, the new edition
is much more readable than the old. Pro-
fessor Trent’s introduction has been re-
tained, and a reassessment of Byron by
Guy Pocock has been added. “Don
Juan” makes one complete volume.
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No." 11
Across.
Such a horse, with a bust barrel
overturned, has often been
laughed at before. (8)
5 Disgraced all the morning in the
outhouse. (6)
10 Making a little go a long way to
the east sovereign. (5)
* * Otherwise little Georgie goes to
New Zealand with a fabric. (7)
~ A French interior of perches’
songs. (6)
13 American name at the end of the
road. (8)
15 Shut up the island vessel in the
writing style. (10)
19 Popular subject of French novels
until an electrified particle finishes
of a very large number. (10)
21—Scattered the superlative about
the directions. (8)
23 Make a postponement in order to
turn up with a swell. (3, 3)
25 Salamander to possess a Sydney
or a Geelong suburb. (7)
26 A revolting character. (5)
27 Mournful is the meal of this
CTuelty W (6) findS p,easure ,n
r B°) men expiode in iow-
(CRYPTIC TYPE.)
( Solution in next issue.)
Down.
1— The society’s premises wherein
150 take you to the witches’
“horses.” (4, 5)
2 Will is looked after by her
Somerset river incision and a
Rhode Island kiss. (9)
3 Trinity recommends publicity. (6)
4 Egg. (4)
6 Preponderant political influence
of Jasper or Garnet, as distinct
from Beryl or Ruby, takes no-
thing to New York. (8)
7 A thousand nameless opera with
a fellow on the end. (5)
8 — The medico takes cries of agree-
ment to the vehicles. (5)
9 Mellifluous body of the skies
experienced immediately after the
match. (9)
14—The ringer is due to be crying
like a bull. (9)
16 — Rustic mouth upset nothing for
a bogy. (9)
17 — Add boundaries to such apftarel.
(4, 5)
18— The jetty decays underneath these
clowns. (8)
20— Noise from the head of the axle,
baby. (6)
21 — Cook brought him alongside the
rivers. (5)
22 —Scattered the seed and thus got
married. (5)
24 —Waggish structure. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 10.


FROM EVERY
ANGLE...
■
m
J
UDGE for yourself by actual
comparison. Handle a “Titan”
chisel at your hardware dealers.
Enjoy its perfect balance, observe
its careful finish and sturdy construction.
YouTl realise that from YOUR angle “Titan”
chisels do really set the standard.
And there’s a reason. “Titan” chisels are a
product of Australia’s most modern chisel
factory, located at Hobart, Tasmania. Best quality B.H.P. steel, expertly
processed into fine tool steel by Commonwealth Steel Co. Ltd. is used for
the chisel blades. Every stage of manufacture — forging, grinding, heat-
treatment and final polishing — is closely controlled to ensure a quality tool
with a long-life cutting edge.
Hancjles of fully seasoned close-grained Australian mountain ash or myrtle
beech complete a tool you can be proud of.
The ONLY Guaranteed Chisel on the Australian Market!
You don’t have to take our word for its quality — because every “Titan” chisel
is sold with an unconditional guarantee against defects in material or workman-
ship! If you’re satisfied it’s faulty, it will be replaced free of charge! You
can’t lose.
THEY SET THE
STANDARD
Titan’s Latest
Product...
Illustrated at right Is the
“Titan” light firmer socket
chisel, an ideal tool for a
great variety of wood-work-
ing jobs. This utility chisel
is beautifully balanced and
should be in every carpen-
ter’s kit. Ask to see it at
your hardware dealer’s.
“Titan” chisels now avail-
able in a full range of sizes
from % inch to 2 inch
include the following:
Light Firmer Socket in either
plain or bevelled edge);
Heavy Firmer Socket; Tang
(Registered Firmer and
Firmer Bevelled); Butt and
Long Paring. See also the
“Titan” Gouges.
TITAN
WOOD
CM
IS®
Manufactured at Hobart, Tasmania, by THE TITAN NAIL & WIRE PTY. LTD.
Send for
FREE Descriptive Folder
Cut out coupon and send to The Titan Nail & Wire
Pty. Ltd., Hobart, Tasmania.
Please send me a free copy of the “Titan
chisel illustrated folder.
NAME...
ADDRESS
8.1.
