

ROYAL
PUR P LE PARA
APRODUCT OF
THE
sdf
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
The Bulletin
“The Bull *.!. ” VoL 70-No. 3621
Wednesday, July 6, 1949
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppels
is known the world
over as the town of the “Crooked
Spire,” a unique medieval structure
which is regarded as a national heirloom.
It surmounts the Church of St. Mary and
All Saints, the parish church of Chester-
field, and for six hundred years this
remarkable structure has pointed uncer-
tainly towards the heavens, arousing in-
terest and curiosity in each succeeding
generation.
The spire, which dates from 1375, is
out of perpendicular, leaning in three
directions at once—seven feet six inches
to the south, seven feet ten inches to the
south-west and three feet two inches to
the west, and these increasing deflections
since 1818 have caused concern for the
safety of the building.
Among the curious legends which
have originated around the cause of these
contortions is the story which asserts that
Lucifer, who was flying from Notting-
ham to Sheffield, alighted for a moment
on the top of the spire. At that moment
a waft of incense from below so irritated
him that he gave a violent sneeze—so
great that he twisted the whole spire.
Yet another story concerns the fact that
on one occasion a virtuous maiden of
such beauty entered the church that the
spire bowed in admiration and could not
regain its normal position.
It is asserted, however, that it was the
aim of the designers to build a spire with
a twist at the base which would gradually
modulate so as to finish perpendicular.
The twist, therefore, is by design, but
the contortion is the result of accident,
faulty design and the warping of timber
due to the unseasoned wood used and
to the action of the sun on the leaden
covering of the exterior. This leadwork,
which is arranged in herring-bone
fashion, is estimated to weigh 32 tons.
Much damage to the fabric of the spire
has been caused by the destructive Death
Watch beetle, whose activities have been
curbed by restoration work,carried out
periodically.
The spire, which is 230 feet high, is
not secured to the top of the tower, but
relies for its stability on its low centre of
gravity and on the flexibility of the struc-
ture, which, whip-like, bends to the
fiercest gales, which it has withstood for
many generations.
RENOWED FOR ITS CROOKED SPIRE, CHESTERFIELD'S PARISH CHURCH


Um
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin
My Name
My Address .
S.B. 249
■ AOS ,»i m
The Red Page
PERSONAL ANTHOLOGY.
More noticeably than in other years,
the 1948 issue of Angus and Robertson’s
Australian Poetry, edited by Judith
Wright, is a personal anthology. It does
not represent the state of Australian
poetry so much as the present state of
Judith Wright’s own art: for it is strongly
feminine, rich in vitality at its best, and
it strikes out boldly—and a little danger-
ously—into the territory of experiment
and obscurity.
One should always think twice before
accusing a poet of obscurity; perhaps the
fault is in us, that our wits are dull. Per-
haps, as in Kenneth Mackenzie’s “The
Old Field” in Australian Poetry 1948, the
poem tells a story on the surface that has
as much meaning as anybody is reason-
ably entitled to:
Someone lit a match by the old field
when the leaves of yellow maize were dry.
This match enlarged as only a match can,
spread on the field, yellow and black-edged,
a hungry butterfly that the old man’s hand
could not frighten and smash low —
and under that surface, being a kind of
allegory, is capable of several interpreta-
tions. Like “The Ancient Mariner,” such
a poem may be all the more fascinating
and powerful for its mystery.
Perhaps, as in David Campbell’s con-
tribution to Australian Poetry —•
A white wind turns the daylight moon
And Time is whittled on that stone
Where fat heart sits when he is fed
And whets his grief when he is lean.
There flares the tree the mystics burn
And there is bent the tree of thorn,
And griefs dog-buried in that land
Shall stand up green between the stone —
it is not so much the fault of obscurity
as the virtue of economy that makes it
necessary to read the poem several times
to discover that it is concerned with the
“other side” of life —darkness, agony and
mysticism-evoked by the image of the
moon in daylight.
And, as in both these poems, and as in
some more difficult still in this anthology,
Max Harris’s “Lullaby”—
Girl with eyes like dying flowers,
come near and close them and shut out
the elegant spring. You have lived hours
on the moon’s lips among night flowers —
or the “Rime” by “S.N.”—
I had an air and water-
wheel and all beside
a waterfall,
the ferns were slim and tall;
and in his hands were frees—
there may be a lyric melody to compen-
sate for the evasiveness of precise mean-
ing Music, up to a point, has its own
meaning; as also, up to a point, have
such images as dying flowers and water-
wheels. It has never been quite certain
that Keats meant anything in a practical
way, though he meant much in a musical
and associative way, by the famous
Charm’d magic casements, opening on the
foam
Of perilous seas in faery lands forlorn.
Nobody, one must remember, has ever
seen a faery land; there is no particular
reason why, if they exist, they should be
forlorn; nor can it be laid down as fact
that (he nightingale, if it does migrate to
faery lands, exercises a charming effect
on the windows.
One does not, then, look with too
severe an eye on the moments of diffi-
culty or mystery to be encountered at
intervals throughout Australian Poetry
1948, nor on the group of experimental
poems with which the anthology con-
cludes. It is always possible to prefer an
obscure poem to verses dull or feebly
conventional; and it is also possible,
when confronted with a technical experi-
ment such as the second poem by “S.N.”
or even with such a completely unfettered
gallop as Peter Hopegood’s “Passing of
an Onager,” to regard an experimental art
as more alive than a merely repetitive
performance and an exuberant vitality as
essentially more poetic than a neat
system of scansion.
But having defended—up to a point—
obscurity, technical experiment and even
Mr. Hopegood’s complete abandonment
of orthodox technique, what is one to
make of William Fleming’s “Paean”?—
The day,
Messing in the fowlhouse,
Inroads on roads a box of outrageous
bedlam
But kings it in his surf-sounds
pf cataloguing shambles
With rain and erosion, offices and farms.
Apollo,
Sprinting bard of song,
Inform us O in all the royal world
To render homage to havoc
To the force in the gorgeous sun
To the lifting up Father of hearts and all
his children.
The answer is, in all grief and good-
will, that one makes absolutely nothing
of it. The poem is not, when one has
contemplated it for a long while —some-
times as printed and sometimes upside-
down—totally obscure ; it seems to mean
that Mr, Fleming is feeling happy op a
fine morning. It is not a poem without
art, but, on the contrary, suffers from too
much technique, being written under the
influence of Dylan Thomas and (obvi-
ously in the last line) Hopkins. It has, in
the midst of its strange wooden flowers
of language, a pleasing piece of vowel-
music, “In a sailing cradle way in the
sweetest coolest air.” And it is, when
all that has been said, and when one has
recognised that it may be the product of
a genuine but immature talent, nothing
more than “a box of outrageous
bedlam” ; which perhaps, seeing that the
phrase is his, Mr. Fleming himself sus-
pects. It is a sincere poem, but it is silly
enough to have been written by Era
Malley.
Now, one does not expect to meet Era
Malley in Angus and Robertson’s annual
anthology, which has never been a train-
ing-ground for the very young, nor an
arena for experiment, but which is sup-
posed to present the best of the year's
work by the best Australian writers.
Nor, being, male, does one expect to
be knocked flat on opening the anthology
by an Amazonian phalanx of nine suc-
cessive poems by women.
It is a dreadful thing, since criticism
should be as detached as the unmarrying
angels, to confess to male prejudice. The
present reviewer confesses to it. Judith
Wright, who has represented herself too
modestly in the anthology, has so
rich a talent that one fnay yet
be able to speak of it as genius; Eliza-
beth Riddell, Nan McDonald and Mary
Gilmore, who contribute seven of the
opening poems, are poets of exceptionally
high quality; Elisabeth Lambert, also
placed at the beginning of the book, has
an excellent lyric; Rosemary Dobson, in
the body of the anthology, has a rare
and exquisite grace; and one could not
say with, certainty that any of the 20
poems by women among the total of 48
are less fine or less forcible than the
average of the male contributions. And
yet, there are times when one raises a
protesting hand at this collection ; one
thinks of beer and boots and other things
uncompromisingly masculine; one sub-
mits to male prejudice.
But is not the anthology, if not errati-
cally selected, at least unwisely arranged?
It seems, surely, bad tactics to have opened
with the nine poems by women, as it is
bad tactics to conclude with the group of
experiments: for both the women and
the experimenters receive thereby an
undue prominence.
And, perhaps, there really are too many
poems by women (a few too many), and
the anthologist’s technical standards have
been too lax. If male prejudice is one of
the motives that send one to the fiery
extract from Francis Webb’s “Leichhardt
Pantomime” and to Robert D. Fitz-
Gerald’s magnificent “Fifth Day” instead
of out to the public-bar or a football
match, one also goes with relief to those
poems because “Fifth Day,” in particular,
is a masterpiece of technique, clear,
polished and complete . . . and what is
obscurity, after all, but a groping to-
wards clarity, and what is experiment but
a groping towards accomplishment?
To, Of and From.
Marcie Muir’s monograph Anthony
Trollope in Australia (The Wakefield
Press, Adelaide) is a pleasant album of
the bluff old novelist’s two visits, during
the first of which he inspected our country
from Queensland to Western Australia;
and also of the strenuous efforts which
the Australians of those days made to
please him, arranging banquets, tours,
public meetings and picnics. The picnic
arranged during his second visit, in
August, 1875, by “a number of distin-
guished gentlemen,” and presided over by
Chief Justice Sir James Martin, gives
some idea of the splendors of those
vanished days, as held in the retentive
memory of Sydney’s luxurious old Pet-
ronius, the “Sydney Morning Herald”:
A special train, starting at 7.30 a.m.
from the Redfern station, conveyed the
party to the station near the Nepean
viaduct. A steam launch had been sent up
on the train some day or two before with
a number of boats and boats’ crews.
These were all in waiting on the river; and
within a few minutes of the arrival of the
train, the party embarked and proceeded
up the Nepean...,
Thus he was feted, and the Press of
cities which did not rise to the occasion
was shamed and humiliated, as in
.Western Australia, where the Fremantle
“Herald” regretted that Trollope was
permitted to depart from the colony
without the slightest mark of public recog-
nition—a Western Australian compliment
to the literary merit of a famous novelist.
However, “literary merit” was not
Trollope’s main claim to hospitality. As
the South Australian “Register” put it:
We shall expect from a litterateur of Mr.
Trollope’s experience and ability a very
different picture of colonial life, manners
and resources from that too commonly to
be found in the descriptions of disappointed
adventurers and shallow tourists.
When Trollope’s Australia and New
Zealand came out, there were awkward
comments upon the Australian art of
“blowing,” and Trollope was much surer
of Australia’s will towards “separation”
than Australians wanted him to be; how-
ever, the Sydney “Herald” reprinted the
London “Times” judgment that this was
“unquestionably the best book on its
subject which has yet appeared,” while
the other Australian papers mixed praise
with a good deal of the shocked horror
with which most sitters greet their por-
traits.
If Australia was turned-on generously
for Anthony Trollope in 1871 and 1875,
it has been laid on with a trowel 78
years later for another set of English
visitors, the Newsomes, in The Young
Traveller in Australia by Kathleen Mony-
penny (Phoenix House, London), one of
a series of “Young Traveller” guide-
books-without-tears. From the moment
young Peter and Anne Newsome arrive
with their parents in Western Australia
everybody shouts information at them:
swans, trap-door spiders, erosion, gum-
trees, colored fish, the Barrier Repf, Peter’s
cheap Australian pants, Anne’s cheap
Australian playsuits, cormorants, parrots,
mighty - Mundaring - Weir - supplying -
Kalgoorlie - and - Coolgardie—they must
have been very tired children when they
got aboard again to go to Melbourne,
where they are inundated with billy-tea,
lyre-birds, the Dandenongs, Geelong
Grammar, rock-wallabies...
Finally arrived in Sydney (Circular
Quay, the Bridge, the Graving Dock,
David Jones’s, the Archibald Fountain),
they settle down to go to school; Anne
goes to Redlands at Mosman, and Peter
to Shore; they have thrilling discussions
of their curriculums ; but poor old Poppa
pushes on with the exploration, writing
back to them Some wonderful news about
Brisbane during a business trip, and later
giving a similar travelogue of the Murray
River —how these English do get around!
As an Old Sydney Streetwalker, the
reviewer feels it necessary to point out
one glaring error, where they go “to the
Quality Inn in Castlereagh-street for a
lemon-and-passionfruit ice-cream soda,”
Either it was the Quality Inn in King-
street or it may have been Cahill’s in
Castlereagh-street. Anyhow, for acting
as models to explain Australia to the
world, these two English kids were given
an orgy at Christmas, including an even-
ing’s boating up Middle Harbor, which
was by no means inferior to Trollope’s
Nepean picnic; and a kindly station-
owning family gave them their town
house to live in—ah, that many Austra-
lians could become characters in such
books!
On the same boat coming out (who can
prove he was not?) was Mr. Dale Collins,
a famous Australian novelist revisiting
his homeland. Having left behind him
a book for children. Bush Holiday
(Heinemann’s), which was “Chosen by the
American Juvenile Literary Guild,” Mr.
Collins was bringing his children to Vic-
toria to prove to them that the Australian
bush was just as good as he remembered
it in his story.
It is to be hoped that Australia lived
up to Mr. Collins’s picture of old Mr.
McLeod, the squatter who didn’t hold
with motor-cars, his delightful hoyden
daughter Penny, his capable and sullen
son Bill, and those very odd characters
Old Marjorie, the cook. Uncle Luke —not
very bright, considering all strangers as
potential backers of his goldmining ven-
tures —and an excellent scoundrel called
Jo Creasey.
Into this circle Mr. Collins introduces
a young English boy whose airman father
was killed in the recent war. He meets
an ex-airman called Steve Duke, who is
evidently rich enough to live alone in a
small house in the middle of the bush,
surrounded by luxury, silk pyjamas and
servants, and who ends the story happily
by marrying the young English boy’s
mother, thus saving her from the degra-
dation of life with unpleasant Uncle Fred.
It is a cheerful lot of poppycock; it
shows us Mr. Collins on a happy holiday
from his happy holidays in millionaires’
chromium-plated yachts, and as a creative
writer who might easily bring to present-
day writing in Australia a little of that
fantasy, that light and irresponsible
knack of lying, which is lacking in those
sturdy political philosophers and anthro-
pologists whom today we call our novel-
ists.
Lacking, for instance, in the historical
and anthropological Mr. T. S. Hepworth,
whose Castaways of the Monoboola
(Dymocks) shows a convict transport
being taken over by the convicts on its
way from Sydney to Brisbane in 1828 ;
the Captain and warders are abandoned
in a boat off Brisbane; the ship is
wrecked; the convicts, including two
young boys, are thrown up on the North
Queensland shore; and then begins an
account of the life of the convicts among
the aborigines, with the boys learning
all the old aboriginal customs of hunt-
ing, fishing and fighting, and long
accounts of how the tribes cut up and
ate their own men killed in battle, com-
plete with directions for skinning, cut-
ting-up and cooking the deceased
brother-in-arms.
The sub-title of this book is “A Story
for Boys,” and the reviewer can think of
at least two bloodthirsty little ruffians
who would gulp it down like lemon-
and-passionfruit ice-cream soda—for
Mr. Hepworth has made quite a readable
story of it—can believe, moreover, that
a reviewer might not seem good enough
to eat, even to his own children; still,
there is always an element of doubt. The
thought strikes one, why not send it as
a token of admiration to Mr. Collins, to
give to his children?,..
The idea of trying a book out on
children has already occurred to Mr. Ben
Caplan, who dedicates his So This Is
America! (O’Loughlin Bros., Sydney):
To my daughters Judith, aged 12, and
Ilona, aged 8, who, with the ingenuousness
of nonage, have approved this book as
being Suitable For General Exhibition.
Mr. Caplan is not known to literary
fame, but from his book and the illustra-
tions by one Julian Rose, he would seem
to be a Sydney businessman, perhaps
something to do with picture-shows, stout,
with a sense of humor, who has recently
made a trip to America and Europe.
It would have been nice to close this
survey of many pleasant things which
have been said about Australia with a
book in which an Australian says plea-
sant things about some other country.
Alas, America did not please* Mr. Caplan.
They had no set prices for anything;
from Crown Jewel costume-jewellery to
Buicks and canned grapefruit-juice, the
price varied according to the place, the
time and the buyer. The train in which
he had booked a drawing-room broke
down and they had to sit-up for the rest
of the journey; and he was warned that
if he were to write to the railway com-
pany for a refund he would not get an
answer for six months.
The firm from whose Chicago offices
he bought a silver-plated coffee-service
would not change it for something else
m their New York offices; a vice-presi-
dent to whom he had a letter of intro-
duction did not live up to his notions of
what vice-presidents should be—from
which proceed some dark reflections upon
the status of vice-presidents in America;
and at the New York headquarters of
the Y.M.H.A., “a world-wide Jewish or-
ganisation, with whose Sydney branch I-
have been connected for some years,”
they knew him not.
It is a slight book, but about the best
laugh one has had from an Australian
since Lennie Lower left us in such need *
of being cheered-up.
Reviewed Briefly.
Mental Adjustment: Sidonie Reiss
(Allen and Unwin). Essay on child
psychology by a follower of Adler, trans-
lated from the German by Bernard Miall.
* * * *
Barbara Celarent: Thomas Gilby
(Longmans). An account of thomist
philosophy “designed for those who are
discouraged by the entanglements of
philosophy.” Deals in a strangely light
style with very weighty matters.
* * * *
The Real Bernard Shaw: Maurice Col-
bourne (Dent). Reprint of a book which
Mr. Colbourne has been rewriting and re-
publishing, as new Shaw plays appeared
since 1928. It deals with all the plays
and their performances, with Shaw’s life
opinions and politics. Mr. Colbourne be-
lieves that by temperament Shaw is more
of a reformer than a playwright, but that
his talent, fortunately, refused to be sup-
pressed.
* ♦ * *
Sun in Scorpio: Ronald Fraser (Cape).
Novel containing mixture of love-making
and mysticism in which a young English
diplomat floats about ethereally from
London to Paris, Buenos Ayres, Paraguay
and Egypt, and from bed to bed.
* * * *
Passages from Arabia Deserta: Selected
by Edward Garnett (Gape). Reprint of
the volume first published in 1931. It
is the duty of all men of goodwill to
plough through the whole of Doughty,
but for those who find the full 600,000
words of his “strange style” alarming,
for dding or maddening, this selection
—which is to the whole precisely what
Rigby’s Romance is to Such Is Life: “A
juicy quarter of the mammoth”—is un-
deniably both useful and tempting.


‘TRUTH MIN ADVERTISING
NTHOIY HORDERNS’
~~ ■ * f rx, v h.i
*«s - ■»' „,
ffl
N* ” '
V: ; ; :'
,
' l li
:...
fel
C 'IM
Hi
Ifelraß
*
>
I
-~IM
■
1
; Viv
'
■
i
✓
■■■>•, ■
’■ ■•
Multiple Fitting Shoes
with the accent on .
Comfort, Style anil Dura
11
l ty
\
MU
■
V:
i <s, • v %
£-? •/ V- *..
' ■
“Bangalore Chuhha 99 boots by Hutton of England,
have Brown Suede uppers,
heavy crepe soles and heels. £6/13/-
Hutton’s “Playboy ” in rich Brown Suede and
extra heavy plantation-finished
crepe rubber soles and heels. £6/9/3
m
is
mm
m :
- ss -
.
'm : "
M
s
i .
m
“Packard" No*cap Derby in Tan Calf, Black Box Calf, Brown
Suede; also Tan Elk with rubber soles and heels. Sizes 5 to 12.
Fittings C, D, E, F. 55/3.
Brogues hy ‘‘Packard 99 have extra stout soles, wide welts,
sewn heel seats. In Brown Calf, Black Box Calf, Rich Brown Suede.
Sizes 5 to 12. Fittings C, D, E, F. 66/3.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ MULTIPLE FITTINGS—GROUND FLOOR, GEORGE ST. M 2401; BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


The Bulletin
Vol. 70 —No. 3621
Wednesday, July 6, 1949
SHOTGUN WEDDING.
"Mr. Chifley strongly opposed prosecution of the miners’ leaders, but, public opinion demanding action, Cabinet agreed to tackle the problem
with a bill to freeze union funds.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone. 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House. 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
Westralia; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
"COLD WAR" IN AUSTRALIA
It is doubtful whether, even as he an-
nounced his Government’s action to
freeze the funds of all unions participat-
ing in the Communists’ act of war against
Australia, Mr. Chifley appreciated the
character of the enemy. He spoke of
this act of war as just another strike,
and, while quite prepared to try a
financial counter-blockade against the
miners and unions supporting them, he
refused as ineffectual any action —lying
ready to his hand in several statutes —to
prosecute and punish the real perpetra-
tors of the outrage.
In one breath he condemned the Com-
bined Mining Unions Council for “a
brutal attack on the people’s necessities,”
and in the next he said prosecution of the
organisers of this “brutal attack” would
“not solve any difficulty,” because “the
public does not regard the strike-leaders
as criminals,” and no public anywhere
ever did so regard strike-leaders. This is
glaringly untrue either of many countries
in the outside world or of the Australian
community at this time.
Mr. Chifley does not know that
the punitive provisions of (say) the
Crimes Act or of his own Coal Industry
Act of 1946 would be ineffectual in quel-
ling the authors of this strike. He has
not tested those provisions. On his
present stand he must be taken to admit
—since he spoke of his lifelong conviction
of the uselessness of prosecutions—that
the penalties provided in his Coal In-
dustry Act were either a joke, or else
designed solely against one party in in-
dustry. It provides, for instance: •
Any person who refuses or fails to
comply with any order, direction or re-
quirement made or given by any authority
in exercise of any power or function vested
in it by this Act shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be in the case of a
company liable to a penalty not exceeding
£lOOO and in addition to a penalty not
exceeding £lOO for each day during which
the offence continues, and in the case of an
individual be liable to a penalty not exceed-
ing £lOO or imprisonment for a term not
exceeding six- months.
The alibi for letting a strike run its
course used to be that “you cannot im-
prison thousands of men.” There is not
the slightest reason why any such
stupidity should be attempted. Were
thousands of men responsible for the one-
day coal stoppage in April, when two
Communist executive members of the
Miners’ Federation, without even con-
sulting their colleagues on their council,
or even the union secretary, ordered (so
late on a Sunday that it could not be
revoked) a general stoppage for the
Monday as a protest in the Communist
McPhillips case? Did “thousands of
men” arrange this present “cold war”
against the community, plotted in Marx
House, Sydney?
Of course Mr. Chifley knows the knaves
—“foojs and traitors” was his own expres-
sion last year—who organised this “brutal
attack,” and knows also that their
first consideration always is for their own
skins. How will Communist-led strikes
ever be checked on the Chifley argument
that personal prosecution is futile?
Mr. Chifley is far too astute a politician
to believe his own words on the point.
Throughout the life of this Parliament
the Communists and the A.C.T.U. have
been demanding repeal of those very
sections of the Crimes and Coal Acts
which he despises, along with the punitive
legislation in Queensland and Victoria
which smashed the earlier Communist
demonstrations in those States. Hie
criminals —and “criminals” is the just
word, for all Mr. Chifley’s magnanimity
towards these “mimicking Molotovs” —
who would get hurt evidently do not
share liis views that prosecutions do “not
solve any difficulty.”
The Socialists in Canberra have had
good notice of this event; at least two
and a half years of notice. Mr. Chifley’s
current term of office had hardly begun
when the Communists staged the nine-
weeks’ blockade of Queensland. Premier
Hanlon passed an anti-picketing law and
issued prosecutions under penal clauses
of the State’s Industrial Arbitration Act.
Mr. Chifley merely looked on and refused
to help.
Later in the same year Socialist Premier
Cain of Victoria suffered a series of Com-
munist-organised strikes which threatened
a general stoppage of all industry. The
Opposition under Mr. Hollway forced
and won the elections on this issue and
that of the Chifley Bank Grab Act (hailed
by the Communists as the first step in
“the revolution”), and the new Hollway
Government passed its Essential Services
Act, which has quietened the local Com-
munists ever since. The very threat to
proclaim the Act has been sufficient as a
restraint.
Mr. Chifley has got to stand up now
and let the country see what he is made
of. For the people want not only coal;
they want also to see the active assertion
of their own Government’s authority.
Mr. Chifley says repeatedly that arbi-
tration is the law of this land. So it is.
Communist Williams, the coal boss, says,
through the formality of a motion in his
Communist-backed executive, that his
council “never has and never will accept
arbitration.” Under this leadership the
miners have refused arbitration, concilia-
tion, round-table conference proposals, and
a fair deal offered in direct negotiation
with the colliery owners. They have stood
out for their own terms and nothing else.
Mr, Chifley deems this just another
strike. It is not so much a strike as a
declaration of war in accordance with a
plot against the nation. The design was,
with the elections approaching, to black-
mail the Chifley Socialist Government
into surrender. It was given a trial run
in the 1947 blockade of Queensland, and
it was to have had a second trial run in
Victoria at the end of that year.
Probably the general strike was to have
been brought off last August, when all
the motions were begun for a showdown
with the Joint Coal Board and the Coal
Tribunal oyer the question of the latter’s
moves for increasing coal production and
reducing incessant local stoppages.
Apparently the strike did not come off
then because the Federal Government in-
tervened behind the scenes with the Joint
Coal Board; from which the miners’
executive may have deduced that the two
“Labor” Governments were susceptible
to pressure, and that pressure could be
used with most advantage as the elections
drew nearer.
In the very accents of those Muscovite
warmongers who have brought Europe
to the brink of collapse Boss Williams
last week summoned all other Communist
union-leaders —the list of them in key
industries is familiar enough—to join in
his defiance of the community, the Gov-
ernment and the law together. As he set
his “cold-war” machinery into motion he
announced:
We are no longer prepared to com-
promise. There has been no approach to
the Federation by any person anxious to
effect an amicable settlement.
The best comment is that from one of
their own minefield buddies, Mr. Rowley
James, M.P., who said on the eve of the
miners’ political strike during the Queens-
land blockade in 1947: x
Judgment should not be accepted from
an organisation which accepts its policy
from Russia, whose concern it is to cause
trouble and retard the progress of other
nations towards economic recovery.
But Mr. Chifley holds it is no use
taking personal proceedings against such
saboteurs, notwithstanding the bitter fact
that, because of their deliberate action,
“the whole economic and social life of
the nation,” as Mr. Chifley himself ad-
mitted in his broadcast on Sunday night,
“is approaching complete disruption” !
Cunning and Clumsiness.
t r 11 *u
Since the war the carefully built-up
myth of brilliant Soviet diplomacy has
time and again been exposed as merely
clumsy cunning and short-sighted ex-
pediency. This is not confined to
Russian-bom Communists; their Aus-
tralian emulators have proved every bit
as clumsy and lacking in foresight. That
has been again demonstrated m the
present strike. , .
Ever since war-time emergency and the
advent of Labor rule in Canberra gave
them their opportunity it has been the
avowed object of the Communists who
control the key unions, and in particular
the Miners Federation, to see that no re-
serves of coal should be built up any-
where in Australia. The argument has
been that past strikes have been lost be-
cause reserves of coal enabled industry to
be carried on while the miners resources
became exhausted. Under the no-stock-
pile” policy the effect of a strike would
be immediate and an early victory for
the strikers ensured.
Accordingly, the miners have been en-
couraged in the belief, true enough in
basis, that they are indispensable to the
community. They can t do without us.
They can t get along without the miners
has been the slogan dinned into the minds
of the rank and file—a worthy and proud
boast if used to inspire the men with a
sense of responsibility to the nation, but
a senseless and selfish code when used, as
it has been, to instil in ffiem a feeling that
they are a class apart, with power to
cripple all industry at the wish of their
Communist masters.
So confident in the power of this policy
were Boss Williams and his Marx House
colleagues that they came to believe
that an actual strike was not essential to
the accomplishment of their ends; that
the mere threat of it was sufficient to
bring Governments and industrialists to
heel. In this belief they have been en-
couraged by “Labor” Governments, State
and Federal, the Chifley and McGirr
outfits vying with one another to grant
any demands and “fix” any dispute, rather
than risk a close-down of industry or a
suggestion that they would be capable of
“crucifying the workers.”
Boss Williams led the miners to believe
that although they voted for a general
strike it would not really be necessary to
close the pits ; the threat would be enough
to guarantee acceptance of their demands.
Except insofar as the misery and disloca-
tion of industry fits into the general
pattern of world Communism it is hard
to see how a strike at the present time
fits into the local Communist programme.
But there have lately been abundant signs
that the Comrades have “given ‘Labor’
away” and the Chifley Government with
it. In effect, the reasoning runs on these
lines:
We’ve got all we can out of the “Labor”
party. We’ve kidded and cajoled and
bullied and bluffed them until we’ve
squeezed them dry. The rank and file are
waking up to us and we’re not making
any headway. If we abuse the “Labor”
Government the mob don’t take any notice
of us, but if there was a Liberal crowd
in Canberra we could go to town in a big
way, pointing out how they are the stooges
of the bosses and are out to crush the
workers. Lots of mugs would believe us
and lots of “Labor” politicians would take
the same line.
Communist activities over the past few
months fit into this pattern, particularly
the efforts of one union boss after another
to bring arbitration into disrepute.
Their clumsiness is now becoming
apparent, as their “no-stockpile” tactics
rebound on them. In previous strikes
the effect of the coal shortage was
gradual and the impact on other indus-
tries slow. As a result the general mass
of wage-earners kept their jobs and were
able to give financial assistance to the
miners. This time scores of thousands
were out of work before the strike began
—the “no-stockpile” programme, which
didn’t take floods into consideration, was
to blame for that —and within a few days
the number rose to hundreds of
thousands, making the prospect of strike-
levies on any considerable scale rather
remote, even before the Federal Govern-
ment froze union funds.
In other days, too, the miners had the
general sympathy of the bulk of the trade-
union movement. That is not so today.
It is much easier to give moral support
to a group of strikers when your own
pay-envelope is intact than when the
strike, concerning which you were not
consulted, has put you on the dole at the
peak of a so-called full-employment era.
Patently the whole thing has boom-
eranged. Its Marx House planners are
making frantic efforts to lay the blame
for the chaos they have caused on the
shoulders of the mine-owners, the Joint
Coal Board, the Government, the Liberal
party or on anyone but themselves. They
are unlikely to deceive anyone. Even
members of the other unions under their
thumb will be hard to convince this time ;
Federal and State “Labor” Ministers
have gone on definite record as placing
the blame on the Communists alone.
Queensland’s Mr. Hanlon put it quite
bluntly: “This is not a dispute between
the employer and employee. The dispute
is evidently between the Miners’ Federa-
tion and the people of Australia.”
As a result, the Comrades have begun
to unloose on the “Labor” Governments
some of the abuse they were saving for
Liberal-Country-party Ministers. Last
year it might have been effective, but
July is too near to P.-Day for the Chifleys
to yield to it now. Clumsiness has got
the Communists and their dupes into this
mess,' and, for once, it seems that they
will have to get out of it themselves.
A Pioneer's Reward.
In 1909, from the Immigration Depot in
Brisbane, six men set out to report on
the Jardine Scrub in the Rockhampton
district. They were delegates of a group
of immigrants; new settlers, and mostly
men with wives and children. The new
arrivals had been deterred by reports
that earlier groups had been sent away
to the bush, in some cases to starve there.
In Rockhampton the six scouts,
with cornsacks of bread and beef, made
their way up the Fitzroy River and its
tributary Alligator Creek. Two days of
trudging in the thick scmb and the
melon-hole country of Jardine convinced
them of the natural richness of the soil,
and they went back to tell the others to
come on.
There were no roads, clearings or
water-supply for the new settlers. They
had no capital, no equipment; even the
few tents and blankets carried were
loaned by the Government. A camp was
established near where Milman railway-
station is today ; water was procurable
there, and for the next few months the
men of the settlement walked six and
seven miles !o the daily toil of clearing
their land and putting up some sort of
habitation with a tank, necessary to en-
able them to take actual possession of
their blocks. And then the weary and
plodding evening return. In the camp
itself periods of starvation were not un-
known ; supplies didn’t always get
through regularly.
But the men got some sort of habita-
tion together on their blocks and settled-
in to working the land, Richard Hands
was one of these. Almost at the start he
was forced to go away, working for
wages, to avoid starving. Paid 6s. a day,
he got a little money together to im-
prove his land. He then paid four men
to help him clear 10 acres of scrub,
which he planted with maize. But the
first green stalks were ravaged by wal-
labies. He went off to work again on the
railways while the harvest grew, to get
a little more cash. Then an early frost
ruined all that the wallabies had left,
leaving Hands £2O in debt. He applied
to the Government for a loan of £25 to
stock up with a few heifers. He was
turned down because he hadn’t the neces-
sary £3 deposit to cover the cost of a
Government inspection of his block.
This was not fenced yet, and every time
he went away to get work his grass was
eaten by trespassing stock, and his single
tank of water might disappear.
And so the dogged tale of drudgery
and hardship went on for nine years ;
railway work, cane-cutting—anything to
get a home and farm going on this rich
Jardine scrub, the red volcanic soils of
which grow peanuts to perfection today.
Lacking even a horse, Hands walked to
Alligator Creek stage-landing once a
fortnight for supplies. Sweating over
the uneven and hilly track on torrid
summer days, tormented with flies,
drenched in wet-season rains, sometimes
ill with fever —the goal reached, Hands
would sometimes find the landing-stage
empty: the supply-launch had not
arrived. There followed a night in the
open on the creekbank, with dung fires,
swarms of sandflies and mosquitoes and
heaped-up burning faggots to keep the
’gators in the creek at a safe distance.
Then, when the launch arrived, the long
trek back bent with the weight of the
beef, flour and the bare necessities off
life.
Hands then made himself a primitive
wheelbarrow. It was a marathon effort
to push it seven miles, even when empty ;
but the loaded return was a tougher or-
deal as he trudged around the foothills
of Mt. Yaamba and over boggy flats.
For two years he used the wheelbarrow,
summer and winter. It was not until
1933 that the local council made the first
road in his vicinity.
At home he put down bores for water-
supply: all failures because the primi-
tive plant could not make the required
depth.
At last, after nine of the hardest and
longest years of his life, Hands thought
that the time had arrived when he could
ask his promised wife to share his home
and his troubles. And the young wife
helped with the pumping of water and
the farm chores and willingly manned
the crosscut-saw in felling trees to build
their home. And to this wife, as to
others, fell the job of doing the essential
farm work, while her man was away
cane-cutting, until the farm should sup-
port them.
The bairns came, and progress also,
slow though it was after years of grind-
ing poverty, and their children grew up
to help them. Hands was one of those
who put his back vigorously into the
work of cutting the timber and erecting
a schoolmaster’s residence so that the
community might have schooling for its
children. The Government wouldn’t
help with the expense of building a resi-
dence. Many years later, in 1947, a
“Labor” Government calmly called
tenders for the removal of the residence.
The settlers who put up the building have
not received any reimbursement for it;
but, in reply to claims, the Government
has offered to consider the erection of a
new residence when the estimates are
prepared for next year!
This is the simple story of a fine
settler who put toil and blood and sweat
into the virgin soil and who has paid
tribute from it to Authority for many
years now. A “central” Government,
1000 miles away at Canberra, not under-
standing his life-story and his effort, can
tax him today out of the results of his
life’s work—can even drive him from
the land when adverse seasons come.
Farmers are dwindling in number on the
land nowadays, and arable land worked
by private enterprise is shrinking under
the long reign of' Federal and State
Socialism. And Richard Hands, now in
the evening of his life, is finding it harder
every day to make an equitable income
from his rich farmland in what was once
known as the Jardine Scrub, almost the
pick of the scrublands in the Rock-
hampton district.
JOHN REIL.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Platitudinous P.M.
Those who listened to Prime Minister
Chifley’s Sunday-night broadcast expect-
ing to at last hear- of some action
against the Communist strike-makers
heard instead as sorry a monologue of
platitudes as even radio ever conveyed.
What they heard was a Prime Minis-
ter of Australia admitting that, though
the entire life of the nation was “ap-
proaching complete disruption,” he and
his Government could or would do noth-
ing about it other than politely treat the
disrupters as besiegers to be opposed by
legalistic attrition. Said Mr. Chifley:—
The people of this country have had
imposed on them an intolerable hardship
that is completely unjustifiable Living
conditions are for many people becoming
completely intolerable, and unemployment
will be, and indeed now is, widespread
Nothing can be more detrimental to our
national welfare than what is happening
now on the coalfields.
To that this Prime Minister of an
Australia “approaching complete disrup-
tion” could add: —
It has been suggested that this stoppage
has been planned by a Communist section
of the miners’ officials for some months.
I hesitate to believe that any citizens could
be so callous as' to plan deliberately for
the holding-up of the life of the community
and the imposition of the intolerable hard-
ships and deprivation of amenities that
this stoppage creates. But that is what
has happened.
And, in this unctuous homily, slow
attrition must be the only resort, and
even that most reluctantly and apologeti-
cally adopted. Plainly Australia would
have to look elsewhere than Canberra for
a lead in positive action.
Also on Sunday night Mr. Chifley told
supporters in his own electorate that, be-
cause of the “dollar position,” he should
be “overseas looking after Australia’s
interests,” but he “could not go while
the strike lasted.”
What could prevent Mr. Chifley from
broadcasting his homilies from London,
or recording them before he went, has
not been stated.
Pound-dollar Dilemma.
Britain (and with it the sterling area)
is faced with another dollar crisis. Root
of the trouble is that purchases from the
dollar or hard-currency bloc exceed
sales thereto in payment. And all Western
Europe is in the same post-war boat;
hence American aid, which is designed
to bridge the gap and put Western
Europe, including Britain, squarely on its
feet by the end of 1952. From its own
dollar earnings Western Europe (exclud-
ing Germany) was able tp pay for about
50 p.c. of its hard-currency imports in
1948, as against only 40 p.c. in 1947.
Now that U.S. is in the throes of an
economic setback, it is buying less from
Britain and the sterling area, whereas
demand for dollar-goods from this area
remains strong. So there has been a
sudden increase in Britain’s dollar deficit
on trade account, too big to be bridged
by American aid. It is to devise ways
and means of dealing with this thorny
problem that British Commonwealth
Finance Ministers have been called to
London.
Chief means employed in attacking the
problem to date have been: Increased
home-production of dollar-saving foods
and materials, more exports to dollar
areas, diversion of purchases from hard-
currency to soft-currency sources, and
increase of British exports to sterling
countries to help them save dollar ex-
penditure. Now Britain is faced with
the crucial problem of getting selling
prices down to more competitive levels.
The alternative appears to be to
cheapen the pound sterling by devalua-
tion, which would have the effect of
: making imports dearer and exports
cheaper. The difficulty would be to stop
wages and salaries rising in proportion
to the rise in the cost of living which
devaluation would entail. So it is by no
means certain that devaluation would
produce a net contribution to Britain’s
dollar problem. It would increase the
cost of meeting interest and capital repay-
ments on the 1946 American loan and
further loans under Marshall Aid. While
taxation for over-liberal social services
remains a strong element in the British
price structure it will be difficult to get
production costs down.
Devaluation of sterling would have
serious effects upon the Australian
economy.
"Free" Medicine Dropped?
There were two political casualties in
Canberra last Friday—casualties highly
significant for the Socialist Govern-
ment.
One was seen in Mr.-Chifley’s aban-
donment of his pretence that the unions,
unaided, can get rid of the Communists
as leaders of “a revolt against the com-
munity”—his Press advertisement on
Saturday morning cleared that up. The
other casualty was his “free”-medicine
scheme.
The “free”-medicine ramp—the first
step in the socialisation of the medical,
pharmaceutical, dental and nursing pro-
fessions —was to have come into force
on that day. It had been announced as
“soon to be proclaimed” for more than
12 months. July 11, 1948, was the first
F-Day, but cool reflection or cold feet
produced a succession of revisions and
postponements. Friday, July 1, 1949, was
at length fixed for zero-hour when “the
fight against the doctors” was to begin.
The day dawned, and not a sound was
heard, or even a funeral note. Of course
the Chifley Cabinet was up against the
fight of its life in another quarter with
the challenge thrown down by the Com-
munist bosses. This preoccupation
would be a sufficient alibi for Ministers
on “free” medicine. The absence of any
announcement from the B.M.A. that it
was seeking an injunction in the Sigh
Court indicated that the McKenna Act,
with industrial compulsion tacked on to
it, was, like the miners’ funds, frozen.
But other good reasons for caution
should be beginning to weigh with this
Ministry. The Socialist Government in
the United Kingdom, tormented by the
dollar famine and by strikes there, too,
in key industries—that they are nation-
alised makes no difference —has issued
an S.O.S. to all Dominion Treasurers
to attend a conference to help lighten
the British ship. The heaviest burden in
that water-logged vessel is its “social-'
security” programme (ironical indeed the
phrase sounds now!) and especially its
“free” medical service.
The Chifley Government has herein
the plainest warning from the British ex-
ample that Government expenditure on
this crack-brained, extravagant “free”-
medicine stunt is too heavy for a dol-
lar-starved nation to carry, that the
Socialist craze for less work at higher
wages is paralysing the nation’s efforts
to pull up on the slippery descent to in-
solvency, and that “free” social services
for “security” from the cradle to the
grave is, in fact, hastening an economic
depression.
Communism Inquiry.
The Royal Commission into Communist
activities in Victoria would be lasting
even longer if Communist barrister
Paterson had been permitted to read
whole volumes of Karl Marx. Mr.
Justice Lowe clamped down on that
dreary proposal and insisted on argument
being kept somewhere near the terms of
reference.
Paterson, cross-examining M. H. Ellis
(“Ek Bum”) with questions relating to
Bulletin policy, explained that he was
endeavoring to establish that Ellis was in-
sanely biased against Communism, The
Commissioner asked “Instead of asking
all Jhese questions, why not ask the
witness if he is biased?” Paterson did
so.
Ellis replied: “Yes, I am strongly
“They’re saying our Humpty Pound has had too much of that
Dumpty Pudding.”
opposed to Communism. I am biased
against anything that involves treason and
violence. lam equally biased against
Fascism.” Later Ellis explained that he
intended the documents he had produced
to “stand on their own feet” without any
comment of his own. Because of his
natural bias against violence he did not
wish to put before the Commission any-
thing which merely reflected his own
opinion.
The appearance of Cecil Sharpley in
the box on Friday was the signal for a
wild demonstration from the gallery. The
ex-Communist was called various types
of rat —the terms “dirty rat,” “rotten
rat” and “gutter rat” could be distin-
guished above the general din—and 40 or
50 people booed and shook their fists at
him. The court was cleared, and Sharpley
claimed to have recognised four men and
two women Communists, whom he
named, among the demonstrators.
In evidence, Sharpley gave an outline
of what he claimed were his activities in
the Communist party. He said the object
of the party at the beginning of the war
was to turn the conflict into a civil war.
The Commissioner asked: “You mean a
civil war in Australia?” Sharpley replied:
“Yes, that is the general objective in any
imperialist war —that workers in each
country should turn it into a civil war in
their own country. That is the teaching
of Lenin.”
Truth Is Their Enemy.
A reporter of Albury “Border Morn-
ing Mail” visited the Bonegilla (Vic.) camp
for D.Ps. to see how it was being run and
what sort of people inhabited it. Among
other things he met an English-speaking
Rumanian, who begged the reporter not
to publish his name for “fear of reprisals,”
and who had got here after two years in
Russian-occupied Europe. Points from
the Rumanian’s story;
Without warning, men were taken from
their homes and herded on to express trains
for Russia In November, 1948, Russian
rearmament began in earnest.... Factory-
owners are taxed a minimum of 34 p.c.
Workers have to pay big union dues.
Those who do not belong to a union and
the Communist party cannot get work
Communist-party membership is now
frozen... no new members (except in’
special circumstances) are accepted All
films are of Russian origin. Unfavorable
comment in public means a concentration
camp Workers in factories are given a
set amount of work each day. If it’s not
done there’s no pay. If the quota is
exceeded the worker gets his picture in the
papers with a long eulogy, and receives a
bonus Average daily working hours are
from 10 to 15. Sunday is the only day
off—and that only in non-essential indus-
tries. The workers get two issues of clothes
a year, one for summer and one for winter.
High Communist officials, however, can
afford to keep a housemaid, have Persian
rugs and silverware.
This sort of thing is familiar. It and
more has been said time and again in re-
ports from American and British journal-
ists and others who’ve managed to get
near the Rusisan zone or talked with
refugees from there. Local Communists
have alleged those reports to be lies of the
“capitalist press.” But they can’t counter
the statements of D.Ps. who come to Aus-
tralia and tell of their actual experiences
while in Russian hands.
Which is the real reason why Com-
munists, using unionists for their pur-
pose, bitterly oppose Baits and other
D.Ps.
Chance for New England.
Mr. Treatt of the Liberals and Mr.
Bruxner of the Agrarians have expressed
intense dislike for the N.S.W. Govern-
ment’s electoral redistribution bill, which
proposes to increase members from 90
to 94—48 from Sydney electorates and
46 from the country, which includes New-
castle.
In Mr. Treatt’s view the bill deliberately
makes country people the “handmaidens
of city interests” and is “not designed
to assist country folk.” Mr. Bruxner
went to the Bible, likening the bill to
,Exodus —“an exodus of country Labor
members from Parliament.” He also
called it a of country members
to the city of Sydney.
Both gentlemen expressed their convic-
tion that, added to other things, it would
cause the defeat of the McGirr Govern-
ment at the next elections. That being
so, and their concern for the rights of the
country so emphatic, they have their
opportunity.
A constitution has been drawn up for
the proposed new State of New England,
and a permanent committee established
to work for it. Mr. Treatt and Mr.
Bruxner, on behalf of their respective
parties, can include in their election
policy speeches a promise that, if re-
turned to power, they will spare no effort
to establish the new State, and thus place
at least one part of rural N.S.W. beyond
the domination of the big city.


7741 E/R
<Msep to
*£•
■HOVOi
/
CARRERAS LIMITED
OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
POLITICAL POINTS
At last Chifley has come out on the
side of The Bulletin. Last Saturday, in
one of his big advertisements in the daily
Press he proclaimed:
This strike... .is a revolt against the
whole community.... TTie Communist sec-
tion of the miners’ leaders want no law but
their own, and are recklessly ready to
sabotage Australian industry and victimise
their fellow-workers in order to achieve
their ends.
Their aim, says the P.M., “is industrial
anarchy.” Having tardily admitted this,
it is his duty to mobilise the full might
of the law, and to seek the co-operation
of the N.S.W. Government in doing so,
in order to remove “the Communist sec-
tion of the miners’ leaders” from control
of a union which, says the Prime Minister,
must be turned back to the path of law
and orderly arbitration of disputes. There
is only one course of action under this
head : and that is arrest of the Com-
munists thus proclaimed as rebels.
The Chifley Emergency Coal Strike
Act is to remain in force for the dura-
tion of the hold-up. It will be automatic-
ally repealed when the Governor-General
proclaims the strike over. Sir Earle Page
suggested that it should be made a per-
manent part of the Arbitration Act, to
be proclaimed by the Court in any serious
industrial crisis, and Mr. Anthony urged
that it be left on the Statute books in
case the Communists put on a strike while
the House was not in session. The point
is one the Government should consider.
What will happen if the Comrades stage
a stoppage after Parliament has dispersed
for the election campaign?
Tax-cuts came into force last Friday,
but several hundred thousand Australian
workers'did not participate. They were
out of, work through the action of 20,000
coalminers who take their orders from
a handful of fanatics, who take theirs
from Moscow.
During the debates on the emergency
legislation in Canberra and Sydney, mem-
ber after member on the Government
side stressed how obnoxious it was for
a “Labor” man to have to support such
measures. Faced with an emergency, the
all-wise Socialists have had to do what
they have abused their opponents for
suggesting. As in the case of war-time
conscription, they have had to learn from
the other side. But when the trouble
blows over they will still act and talk as
if they were the repositories of all wis-
dom.
As a sequel to the arrogance of Healy
and Roach the Stevedoring Industry
Commission has gone into the discard,
and there arises in its place a spanking,
brand-new Stevedoring Industry Board.
Industrial disputes on the waterfront will
now be the Arbitration Court’s pigeon.
Apart from that, everything that S.I.C.
could do 5.1.8. can do, and, being un-
hampered by the Healy-Roach duo, it
can probably do it better. Whether it
will be able to do what the S.I.C. couldn’t
do—speed-up cargo-handling and the
turn-round of ships—is a different matter.
There is a suggestion that the Com-
monwealth Government may use its
compulsory acquisition powers to take
possession of Marx House, thereby em-
barrassing the Comrades and at the same
time gaining extra office-accommodation
for Government departments. It smells
like a typical Evatt stratagem—a pot-shot
from behind a legal hedge. The acquisi-
tion powers have been abused too much
already; the adding of the Communist
headquarters to the other spoils of the
system would not make it any less objec-
tionable.
Senator McKenna, the architect of
“free medicine,” is agin secret ballots,
holding that they would give strikes
“sanctified legality,” that disputes couldn't
be settled quickly if all moves and
counter-moves had to be put to ballot,
and that it would need a staff numbering
more than the total number of union
executives. The answer to the first reason
is that it is balderdash, to the second that
a 30- to 60-day “cooling-off” period could
be enforced and that the ballot would be
a simple “yes” or “no” one, and to the
third a question as to what Common-
wealth and State electoral staffs do with
their time between elections.
Dimitrov, recalled to Moscow from
Bulgaria last April “for health reasons,”
died there on Saturday—whether inside
or outside the windows of his room was
not stated in the cables.
According to Calwell the Federal
Government knew at least a week before
the strike that the miners’ leaders in-
tended to call the men out. Yet, in spite
of that knowledge, Chifley considered a
visit by him to the coalfields would be
“provocative,” Provocative of what?
Industrial peace?
N.S.W. Deputy-Premier Baddeley has
turned his face against open-cut coal-
mining. Playford, South Australian
Premier, went flat out to get coal from
his State’s open-cut mine at Leigh
Creek, and half those put out of work
in S.A. by the N.S.W. coal strike are
back in their jobs. That’s the difference
between timidity and courage.
An Eastern tale. There was once a
chief called Abou Ben Chiflee, and his
people were mightily plagued by law-
breakers. So he said: “These men are
bandits. They ought to stop.” But the
bandits laughed and went on banditting.
So his people cried in a loud voice, “Then
why don’t you bloody well stop them? ”
In the early hours of Saturday morn-
ing an airliner crashed near Perth just
after taking off; its crew of four and 14
passengers were killed. As in several
similar accidents in the last year or so
the crashed plane immediately burst into
flames, making rescue attempts impos-
sible. About the most useful aid in-
ventors could give to aviation would be
the discovery of some means of obviating
the fire-danger. It’s a tall order, but
should not be beyond the ingenuity of
the human mind.
Prominent among President Truman’s
pre-election promises was one to repeal
the Taft-Hartley labor act —which
drastically curbs union dictators. The
President tried to fulfil the promise, but
first the Representatives and then the
Senate blocked him. As indicated in Un-
cabled Additions (B. 8/6/’49), there are
too many men in both Houses convinced
that the Taft-Hartley law is the nation’s
guarantee against “a few men who want
to run it in their own interest.” The law
has been bitterly campaigned against in-
side and outside America, but Americans
know what is good for them in these
matters and it will stand. If Australia
had a similar law there would have been
no coal strike.
According to Finnan, Prices Minister
in the kaleidoscopic McGirr Cabinet, the
States won’t “lightly” agree to a rise of
3d. per lb. for butter when they confer
on prices in Brisbane this week. Finnan
lightly agreed to the McGirr 40-hour
week, which came in as election bait in
1947 and set off the train of events which
has, to a- large extent, culminated in the
present mess. And dairyfarmers were
among the first to feel the impact of the
40-hour week in tremendously increased
costs.
Elections for the enlarged Canadian
House of Commons —admission of New-
foundland to the Union and growth of
population since the last census caused an
increase of 17 in the Chamber, bringing
the total number of members to 262
resulted in a runaway win for St. Laurent
and his Liberals, who, except for a five-
year break, 1930-35, have been in office
since 1920. The Liberals increased their
numbers in the Commons from 125 to
191 ; Conservatives dropped 27 seats,
leaving them with 42, and the Socialists
slipped back from 32 to 13. St.
Laurent’s Government has now a
majority of 120 over afl Opposition
parties.
On June 9 Melbourne “Argus” pub-
lished an interview with a passenger and
an International Refugee Organisation
officer on a migrant ship in which both
said there was danger of. Communists
getting through the immigrant-screening
system. Calwell, adopting what is be-
coming the accepted line of a “Labor”
Minister whose department is attacked,
described the report as a “complete
fabrication.” Then he banned the re-
porter from boarding 1.R.0. ships. Con-
viction and sentence without trial is be-
coming a favorite pastime of our
Socialist masters,.
The Calwell mind, groping its way
through a more-than-usually-tortuous
passage to a typical Calwellian finish:
The opinion of most Labor people
today is that the strike weapon is out of
date and should not be resorted to. But
no Labor man will deny the general
principle of the worker’s right to strike,
even though arbitration machinery has
been perfected. Labor will therefore never
make striking a penal offence while capital-
ism lasts.
But when the Socialist State arrives,
let them strike at their peril! 1
Drummond, M.L.A., speaking in the
N. S. Wales Electoral Bill debate, quoted
some interesting figures in support of
the New England movement. He said
that the Government statistician’s reports
showed that the annual production of
the areas included in the proposed new
State was £98,000,000, almost £4,000,000
more than the production of Queensland.
The Queensland Parliament under Han-
lon’s new deal will have 75 members;
the New England areas send 19 members
to the Sydney Assembly and the McGirr
reshuffle will reduce this number while
increasing the representation of the Big
City.
The Soviet representative on the U.N.
Trusteeship Council last week attacked
Australia’s administration of the Nauru
mandate, saying that conditions there
resembled “a concentration camp rather
than a trust territory.” As the man who
made the allegation, Soldatov, is a
former member of the Russian Legation
in Canberra, he should know he was
taking a shot at External Territories
Minister Ward, foremost panegyrist in
the Chifley Cabinet of Soviet achieve-
ment. Eddie winced at the ingratitude,
but only slightly. His hand has been
bitten rather too much lately for another
nibble to have much effect.
German experts investigating South
Australia’s brown coal suggest that it
should be possible to supply all the State’s
requirements of gas and electric-power
from that source. The suggestion is to
erect gaswftrks at Port Augusta and pipe
the gas to Adelaide. That is for the
future ; at present, Leigh Creek coal, won
by A.W.U. men, is helping to modify the
effects of the black-coal shortage.
Communist McPhillips, of the Iron-
workers’ Red Racket, doesn’t cut much
ice in South Australia. He turned up
at Whyalla to encourage the “hill-
climb” strikers to continue their strike.
The men had been out for 100 days.
After their spokesman had told McPhil-
lips what they thought of him, they voted
for a return to work. On the other side
of Spencer Gulf, at Port Pirie, the Iron-
workers hired the Town Hall for a public
meeting to be addressed by McPhillips
on “the basic wage and trade-union
matters.” Port Pirie is an industrial town,
and its 12,000 citizens are very much
interested in the basic wage and trade-
union affairs. Ten of them turned up
to hear McPhillips,
Brisbane city aldermen voted them-
selves a salary rise from £250 to £450 a
year and granted themselves gold life-
passes on city trams and buses. Two
days later Brisbane people were informed
of increased tram and bus fares. No
wonder they call it Greater Brisbane.
The old Murray is doing its stuff. Not
only does it give a good living to
thousands of people along its banks, but
its water goes by pipeline 230 miles from
Morgan through the near north of South
Australia and around Port Augusta to
Whyalla, watering towns and villages en
route, and making existence possible for
Whyalla’s 8000 people and the big ship-
yards there. Now a further line is com-
plete, branching off the Whyalla one to
the rocket-range at Woomera, where
they’re drinking and washing in water
that comes 300 miles from the river. The
big job was done on time by 250 men,
and “handicaps such as material short-
ages, late deliveries, hold-ups through
coal shortages and severe floods in May
were all overcome.” Which shows how
Australians can get things done.
Retiring chairman Geddes, of Ander-
son, Green and Co., Ltd., managers of
the Orient Line, told pressmen in London
that the cost of slow turn-round of ships
in Australia was “frightful.” It was worse
for Australia than for the shipowners
because the cost had to be added to the
freights, thus making imported goods
dearer than they should be. Orient ships
are likely to eliminate Brisbane as a result
of go-slow cargo working. Australia pays
heavily for its sufferance of Communist
union-bosses.
Holding that because Australia has
“built up abroad by the sale of its rural
products balances totalling about £4OO
million,” C. R. McKerjhan, president of
the N.S.W. Rural Bank, told Sydney
Rotarians that he didn’t believe Australia
was facing another depression. Three
days later the coal strike was on, and
scores of thousands of McKerihan’s city
went on the dole.
When it is remembered that organised
society alone makes possible the operation
of mines to the mutual benefit of those
engaged in the work of production, a
recognition of the obligations due society
by the parties is something which the State
is justified in compelling if the parties them-
selves are unwilling to concede it. In any
civilised community private rights should
cease when they become public wrongs.
Clearly, there is nothing in the rights of
parties to a dispute to justify the inhabitants
of a province being brought face to face
with a fuel famine amid winter conditions,
so long as there is coal in the ground,
and men and capital at hand to mine it.
Either the disputants must be prepared to
leave the differences which they are unable
amicably to settle to the arbitrament of
such authority as the State may determine
most expedient, or make way for others
who are prepared to do so.
Not a comment on the present strike ;
merely an extract from a report which
Canada’s Mackenzie King made to his
Government in 1906 when, as Minister
of Labor, he investigated a coal-strike in
Alberta.
In an effort to combat the belief,
propagated by Communists and “Labor”-
Socialists, that public companies extort
huge profits from the community for the
benefit of a small number of wealthy
shareholders, the Institute of Public
Affairs has been doing a little research.
Its report points out that the average
shareholder in Australian companies
holds only 500 shares, from which he
receives less than £1 a week, and that in
the case of most concerns the number
of shareholders exceeds the number of
employees. Average dividend last year
was 6 per cent, on shareholders’ ifunds,
giving a return to the investor at present
market-prices of just over 4 per cent.
The institute stresses the view that the
real interests of the community lie not
in low profits but in low costs and
efficient production,
Almost a week has passed without
“Pravda” claiming that a Russian scien-
tist has discovered something which the
rest of the world knew about three cen-
turies ago.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Phil Attlee”: The issue of the Henry
Lawson stamp caused a lot of people
to break out into words, including the
inevitable claimant to having shared
I Lawson’s camp under the Wellington
bridge or wagged it from school with him
or something, but a new aspect came out
of Newcastle (N.S.W.) in connection with
union election-papers. It seems that
ballot-papers in a boilermakers’ society
vote for officers were sent out on June
11, with stamped and addressed envelopes
for return. When scrutineers examined
the votes they allegedly found some 60
envelopes bearing the Lawson stamp,
which was issued on June 17, a week
after the ballot-papers were sent out.
Whether it means faked votes or not, this
and “other documentary evidence” is sup-
posed to be in the Registrar-General’s
hands for inquiry. Lawson was a devoted
unionist and a fervid Labor supporter, but
his opinions might have changed had he
lived till today. There seems to be some
sort of poetic justice that a stamp com-
memorating him may cause a first-claSs
union row.
* # * ♦
“Col M.”: The morning train to work
is only partly-filled now, mostly with
satchel - bearers. Although, at the
moment, the strike is still young, a firm
making glass window-slats is already
grimly advertising “Put spare time
to good use. Instead of idle days,
close in that verandah.” At home
the fish-shop was first hit, and in its
window a card, supported by a pickled
king-prawn in a bottle, tells “Closed
owing to no supplies.” It took a lot to
do it, but now the morning-train travel-
lers are interested in affairs of State,
and all seem to be experts on the strike,
even the women. Someone in the seat
behind remarks “If I rig up someone’s
stove so it will gas them that’s murder.
If a plumber does a bad job on some-
“Use your hanky, Barbara !”
one’s pipes and they get gassed, that
might be manslaughter. You can’t class
these cases where people are gassed when
then supplies suddenly come on again
as ‘accident’; it wouldn’t happen but
for the strike.” And from someone else:
“Freeze their funds, all right, but do
you think the shops in the coal district
would dare refuse them credit? Of
course, the owners, too, are partly
responsible.” And so it goes on. I
haven’t heard a racehorse mentioned on
that train for three days now.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: When Freud said that no mis-
take was innobent —i.e., it was somehow
or other dictated by die unconscious—
he included typographical errors. During
a sitting of the Royal Commission on
Communist activities in Victoria, counsel
finished the reading of a long paper, and
Justice Lowe murmured: “One curious
thing is that in my copy ‘petty bour-
geoisie’ appears as ‘potty bourgeoisie.’ ”
* * * *
“Ray Whiting”: Being shy blokes we
sprang for our strides as we were rising
on our first morning in Syria when half-
a-dozen Wog bints dragged aside the
tent-flap with an unabashed “Any
washin’, George?” But I could do with
a couple of them now ; today my laundry
arrived back from one of Melbourne’s
modern, de luxe button-bashing establish-
ments. I’m almost sure it’s mine from
the remains of a shredded name-tag, but
by the time it’s taken to return, and
from its ravaged and bobtailed plight, it
has apparently been leased to the singlet-
scrubbers’ picnic committee for their
senior slap-’n’-tickle assault course. The
word “modern” is increasingly becoming
a synonym for lousy, and although it
may take a day or so longer, I’m con-
sidering sending my smalls once again to
a primitive little village in the Lebanon
called Rasheen, from where I know it
will be faithfully returned as of old,
beautifully laundered, with rose-petals
fragrantly bestrewed among my under-
pants.
* * * *
“Mac Hoots”: There is a Dickensian
flavor about life in Sydney, rich, intimate
and grotesque, which none of our novel-
ists since Louis Stone has managed fully
to convey. I am reminded of this when
I pass an auctioneer’s in Bridge-street
where, from time to time as rare and
precious objects come up for sale, secrets
usually hidden away are exposed in the
window. A while ago there was an enor-
mous stuffed Emperor Penguin. How
had that monarch of the Antarctic found
its way to Bridge-street? And who on
earth could have endured in his home
that monumental and moulting carcass,
those baleful eyes of orange glass? Yet
somebody had cherished it; it was the
tutelary deity that gave to one household
among all the houses of Sydney its indi-
viduality, its uniqueness. Now from that
same window there stares at the traffic,
without a single indecorous bark, a large
St. Bernard dog; solemn, majestic,
carved out of wood. Who on earth
carves, for art or for a living, wooden St.
Bernard dogs? And who has cherished
that ridiculous animal more dearly, per-
haps, than a hound of perishable flesh?
These are questions Dickens would have
revelled in answering. Possibly, our
novelists are too much concerned with
propaganda; possibly, as bohemians
living in flats, they never find their way
into the thousands of houses where such
things exist.
* * * *
“Spike”: It is hard to locate the pur-
pose of toastmasters at weddings; to me
they seem useless encumbrances on a par
with wasps and green-headed ants. Un-
less he is good—and he rarely is—the
toastmaster follows the wedding-break-
fast like a sour dessert. He is at his worst
when he cracks jokes, usually about
rolling-pins and the like, but, oddly
enough, the only entertaining toastmaster
I can recall was one of these humorists.
It was a posh wedding, the bride coming
from very wealthy parents; the ’groom
from a family not so well off. The toast-
master was going great guns with remarks
attributed to the ’groom at the time he
popped the question. But the polite titters
subsided into awful silence when he
cracked the one that goes:
Millie: “Would you go through every-
thing for me?”
Billie: “Yes. How much have you
got?”
Then the speaker realised what he had
said, and for once I saw the spectacle of
a toastmaster stuck for words.
“Tell me if it hurts. I want to know when to start laughing."
“Curtain Raiser”: Basso profundo
Oscar Natzka posed a problem for
the censors at the Melbourne Town Hall
by singing as an encore “The Foggy,
Foggy Dew,” This is said to be a piece
marked not for public consumption on
any broadcasting system in Australia.
* * * *
“Melbn”: G. A. Cutts, of Fairfield,
Melbourne, visiting Sydney in 1935
with the Collingwood football team,
saw W. C. Wentworth’s watch among
the relics at Vaucluse House, was
vaguely reminded of something, and
told the attendant that he had one at
home exactly * like it which had been
handed down from his great-grandfather.
The attendant told him there was no other
watch like it in Australia. Last year Cutts
was again in Sydney, and he once more
dropped into Vaucluse House, to learn
that the historic watch had been
scrounged. On his return he took his
watch to the Melbourne Museum, where
it was identified as a replica of Went-
worth’s timepiece. He is presenting the
watch, which was made in 1795, to
Vaucluse House to replace the stolen one.
* * * *
“Bungle”: At the local Quarter
Sessions, the presiding Judge excused
the absence of one of the jurors on the
grounds of illness. “I have a doctor’s
certificate to that effect,” he announced
gravely, “I can’t read a word of it, but it
looks extremely serious.”
* * * *
“Uco”: Sydney County Council, which
is charged with the responsibility of
supplying the greater part of Sydney’s
population with electrical power, but
doesn’t do so, has come in for a lot of
criticism during the blackout era for con-
tinuing to run an advertising campaign
urging people to buy more electrical
appliances when it cannot keep the power
up to those already in use. Criticism has
apparently at last borne a little fruit. The
line adopted in the council’s new cam-
paign soft-pedals the buying angle and
exhorts the public to “Plan to Enjoy
Electric Living.” That’s better. Planning
is something everyone can do, and these
days there is precious little else they can
do.
* * * *
“Bullwhanger”: When I was a bright
young A.B. in an old copra schooner,
thirty years ago, a slender volume stood
on a chartroom shelf with the Admiralty
publications and sailing directions that
composed the drogher’s library. It was
titled The Shipmaster’s Medical Guide,
and was carried by most ships earlier in
the century. With its advice, countless
old-time skippers performed such opera-
tions as setting a broken leg or re-shaping
a squashed thumb. It also prescribed for
all the ailments of sailors, from hangover
to yellowjack. The remedies it recom-
mended were simple but drastic, and
nobody who ever swallowed it could
forget the squills-and-paregoric mixture
to which its author pinned his faith as a
sure cure for coughs and chest com-
plaints. A few weeks ago, when our local
Sawbones told me I had pneumonia, I
thought: “This’ll be a pushover. This
new sulpha drug will fix it in a couple
of days.” So I swallowed the sulpha with
enthusiasm. No dice. “Hospital,” said
Sawbones, “and penicillin every three
hours. A million units should put you
right.” A million units they gave me, in
three-hourly doses, hypodermically, and
where it hurt most. When my sternsheets
looked like a worn-out dart-board I got
a relapse, so Sawbones kept it going for
another 750,000 units. Then Sawbones
turned me over to Macquarie-street. You
know the drill: X-rays, blood-tests,
fluorescent screens—all the dope. Then
the specialist gave his advice, and it
didn’t include anything I hadn’t heard
from the local quack. “But I’ll give you
this prescription,” he said, scribbling it
out. “It’s a great remedy for the chest,
and I want you to take it as soon as you
can get it made up. Three guineas,
please.” A chemist pal mixed the medi-
cine and gave me a dose there and then.
The grey-green mixture on my palate
made my memory click back to the old
schooner’s chart-room and the skipper
handing out one of his famous “cough-
cures.” “That’s a great remedy,” said
the chemist. “Squills-and-paregoric's
one of the best chest-medicines going.”
* * * *
“Meekatharra”: A lass lately arrived
from England obtained a job as
girl in a city office and, not long after-
wards, was asked by one of the heads of
the establishment to find another member
of the concern. After several inquiries
she was told off-handedly “Oh, he’s in
Woop Woop.” The girl dutifully relayed
the information and was told, a little
coldly, “There is no such place as Woop
Wopp; it’s just Australian slang meaning
anywhere.” The lass from the Old Dart
was equal to the occasion: “Well, how
should I know! If you’ve got places
called Wagga Wagga, you could have
anything.”
* * * *
“Brolga”: If, after months of crawling
on your part. Bung tells you to bring
along a sugarbag and pick up the dozen
bottles of ale for that party, don’t take
chances by trying to ram the bottles into
the bag higgedly-piggedly. A dozen
bottles and one sugarbag can be united
into a solid mass if you follow the method
known to blackmarketeers as “ten up and
two across.” Hold the bag upright with
the bottom just resting on the floor.
Stand ID bottles upright inside the bag—
the last bottle will perhaps take a bit of
squeezing down the side. When you’ve
done this, you’ll have three rows of
bottles —a centre row of four and two
outer rows of three. Jam the two remain-
ing bottles horizontally between the necks
of the upright ones, the head of one to
the north, the other to the south, and you
have a package which won’t rattle and
which will stand an amazing amount of
rough handling. The advice may not be
worth much at present, but paste it in the
hat for future reference.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Having made remarkably
good at the Princess, Melbourne, the
National Theatre Movement is taking to
the country, and a ballet company of 42
will tour the big Victorian towns in a 40-
seat passenger parlor-coach with all
equipment, its own orchestra and special
scenery to fit small stages. Ballarat,
Bendigo, Horsham, Warrnambool and
Shepparton will be visited, but
Geelong will bo omitted as it hasn’t a
theatre. Townspeople are being asked to
billet members if other accommodation
is not available. It took years for metro-
politan audiences to accustom themselves
to Australians as ballet-dancers —they
didn’t mind the ballerinas so much, but
the tendency was to regard male dancing
as sissy, excusable in Russians and other
furrin people, but inexplicable in Aus-
tralians, It will be interesting to see how
rural centres, accustomed to travelling
circuses, buckjumping shows and other
more robust and red-meat forms of enter-
tainment, will take to the new art form.
TO TATTOOED LADIES.
“Mayfair society girls are having their lips
tattooed, and dispensing with lipsticks.”
O lips that are to be tattooed
And never smeared about again
With crimson oils that once imbrued
The handkerchiefs of gallant men:
Ah, how delightful, if permissible,
That you should be so cleanly kissable!
O lips that with so slight endeavor
Can ring the heart out like a bell,
Some new invention may for ever
Tattoo your constancy as well.
Still, the confusion might be terrible
If all your kisses were indelible!
O lips whose crimson every day
Wul be the same in age as youth,
Why should not every word you say
Be similarly tattooed with Truth?
Alas, alas, it’s inconceivable
That all those words could be believable!
O lips that are, and lips that were,
And lips, perhaps, in future faces,
Though from experience we infer
That, of your vows and airs and graces,
Only your color is controllable,
If you’ll console us, we’re consolable.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


A A
your dependants look to •fQO to make the wisest choice
Your choice of an Executor and Trustee is a decisipn which directly
affects the welfare of your dependants. Your Trustee should he
chosen for his business knowledge, integrity, experience, perma-
nence and financial stability, otherwise you may imperil your
family’s inheritance. An executor should not be selected on
grounds of sentiment or affection. Avoid all risks by appointing the
Permanent Trustee Company. You can then be assured of expert
administratio'n of your affairs, combined with absolute security and
safety.
'Why not call and discuss this matter further with one of our
Executive Officers? Or write for free booklet, “Trust Estates and
Their Management."
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
A. E, Bond, Chairman
F. H. Way, Vice-Chairman
Cecil H. Doyle F. W. Hixson, VJ),
G. Moncrieff Barron, 0.8. E, M.B.CHM., FJR..A.CJS.
J. R. Faviell
Manager'. N. L. Shaw
Asst. Manager: C. N. P. Whittle Sub Manager'. S. U. White
Secretary : F. R. Garland
23*25 O’CONNELL STREET
sd
SYDNEY. NEW SOUTH WALES
“Zake”: I have still to be convinced
that pressure-cooking will retain its
present amazing popularity— at least
for the evening meal when the pres-
sure is on the housewife. Many users
incline to the opinion that for such things
as vegetables, by the time the water is
brought to the point when sufficient steam
is coming from the stem to justify clamp-
ing the “jiggler” on, plus the time taken
from then to the point where full pres-
sure is on, plus pressure-time, there is
little real difference between it and the
time ordinarily taken with open pots.
Certainly with such items as soup, stews,
haricots, corned-beef, etc., the time saved
is well worth it. But so far as I can see
the worst effect pressure-cooking has is
on the nervous system. Observe any
housewife trying it. Conversation is
practically impossible as she concentrates
on why the thing isn’t jiggling, whether
steam is escaping from the seal, the
time-factor and other worries. All she
had to do with the open-type pots to see
if the contents were done was lift a lid
and poke the spuds. Pressuring, she hopes
for the best. The pressure-cooker is a
device only for the phlegmatic type of
woman. For the highly-strung it is a
potential nerve-wrecker.
.** * *
“Nunk”: Max Afford’s “Dark En-
chantment,” the first Australian play for
many years to be accorded the full honors
of commercial night - production in
Sydney, opened on the first night of the
coal strike, with lights brought in boxes
to the front of the stage instead of foot-
lights, and the Minerva Theatre half-
lighted during intervals with a dim
religious glow. The dimness matched the
gaslight period in which the play was
se't, and perhaps contributed to its hair-
raising effects. There was a good turn-
up of first-nighters; nevertheless, it is
characteristic of Australian Leftists, who
are always howling for Australian actors
in Australian plays, that when an Aus-
tralian play gets a rare chance in an Aus-
tralian theatre, they should do everything
they can to stop people going to it, or
from seeing it when they go.
* * * ♦
“Bo”: Sydney has in recent weeks been
given Awful Examples of the evil work-
ings of that sordid profit-motive which
is regarded with such horror and re-
pugnance by the wealthy militant unions.
Most Sydney theatres, even the news-reel
theatrettes, have auxiliary lighting plants,
but the Town Hall —that glorified barn
which is the city’s only big concert hall —
has none. Perhaps its “Labor” council
thinks it would be against working-class
interests to instal one. In consequence,
Rudolf Schock’s final A.B.C. concert was
abandoned at notice so short that hun-
dreds turned up to find the Town
Hall bolted and barred. Similarly,
the State Government’s Conservatorium
had to abandon a promising season of
opera because the Government hadn’t
equipped the place with an emergency
plant. Then came basso Oscar Natzka,
under the direction of Concerts and
Artists, and soprano Marjorie Lawrence
for the Firm. Faith was kept with the
public, and all concerts were given—
auxiliary plants were hauled from Mel-
bourne by road. Profitable ventures they
both proved. Awful thing the profit-
motive, isn’t it?
* * * *
“Exdig”; The story of the dog that
enjoyed fireworks (B. 8/6/’49) reminds
me of the mong which attached itself to
us when we were camped at Irish House,
between Kemmel and the Messines Ridge.
The fizzing of a lighted stick of cordite
excited Spot; when a shell “who-o-o-ed”
through the air Spot’s ears pricked, and
directly the shell exploded he tore off
madly to the spot. His interest was in
the disturbance of rats, for he was a great
ratter. Practice gave him a curious in-
stinct about the fall of the shells; at the
" Whenever I have company he's inclined to be precocious."
first sound of an approaching shell he
would start moving ; his prediction of the
place where it would fall was never far
out. But he overdid it; one day he
reached a shell-burst too soon, and in
the splather of the explosion we saw the
white body of Spot hurled skywards
with the dirt of the explosion, the shell
having dug well into the soft ground.
Amazingly, he came down intact and
alive, landing squarely on his feet. He
was quivering like an aspen, and just
stood shaking for a minute or so. Then,
apparently deciding that a place where
such things could happen was no place
for him, he dashed for the distant
horizon. We never saw Spot again.
* * * *
“Jurutulis”: The graves of 2700 Allied
servicemen whose bodies Were recently
brought from Sandakan were consecrated
the other day in the beautiful war ceme-
tery on Labuan Island. The old Labuan
cemetery had a sombre history. Most of
the graves dating back to the early days
have big concrete mounds built over
them, the purpose of which must have
puzzled many Australian soldiers. The
mainland of Borneo is 14 miles away,
and in the old days it wasn’t difficult for
Dyak warriors, hard put to it for heads
to make the dozen obligatory for a bride-
groom, to paddle across at night and dig
up the body of a deceased European.
The effect on the small white population
when these desecrations were discovered
can be imagined. To circumvent the
practice new graves were filled with glass
and stones and concrete mounds erected
on top. With his primitive implements
the headhunter could hardly complete his
excavations before the dawn, so he
dropped the habit.
♦ $ afe
Becks ; Sydney “Daily Mirror” has
a habit of filling up odd corners of its
pages with little snippets of news from
U.S.A. I am not quarrelling with the
policy; it brings me stories, tantalisingly
brief, of teen-age murders in Roanoke
(Virginia) or suicide pacts in Little Rock
(Arkansas) which might otherwise
escape my notice altogether. But I would
like to know just what system is followed
in choosing the items. For instance, I
find it hard to see the news value in the
following paragraph, though doubtless it
is concealed somewhere. The message is
headed “Man Found Niche,” and the
item comes from Clinton (Tennessee);
Emmie Herschell Shinlever saw an adver-
tisement of a camera in a mail-order
catalogue in 1900 and decided he’d like to
be a photographer. He opened a studio
here in 1904 and has been in the
photography business ever since.
Mr. Shinlever may well be a highly-
respected citizen of Clinton (Tennessee);
he may even be a good photographer—
he is obviously a persistent one, but I
doubt whether the item, as printed, would
make the Personal column of the Clinton
(Tennessee) “Bugle,” except in a very
dull week. If Mr, Shinlever decided to
nominate for the State legislature, it
might, with a suitable photograph, get
into the Nashville (Tennessee) papers, pro-
vided he chose the right political party.
If President Truman, passing through
Clinton (Tennessee), happened to drop
into the Shinlever studio for a portrait,
that might justify the old bulb-presser
crashing into the early editions of the
New York papers. Finally, if Shinlever’s
six-year-old grandson* murdered the old
man by shoving the 1900 mail-order cata-
logue, dog-eared and yellowed with age,
down his throat and the crime was sheeted
home to him through the accidental click-
ing of the original mail-order camera,
that might merit the cable running hot to
bring the news to “Daily Mirror” readers.
But, as it stands, I give up.
*****
“Phildee”: Unk White’s drawing (B.
8/6/’49) of the homeless one who had
taken up residence in a telephone-booth
reminded me of the time I arranged to
take a popsy to the theatre. I had arrayed
myself in a brand-new suit, and, about an
hour before I was due to leave, went up
the street to a public phone to ring the
puss. Just as I got there it started to
rain—and kept on raining for nearly two
hours. Unable to raise a taxi I stayed in
the booth for the whole time, deciding,
after a rather heated conversation over
the wire, that popsies were plentiful
whereas new suits were not. After the
first 10 minutes or so in the box I began
to feel cramped and tired of standing, and
thereafter I spent about an hour and a
half standing, leaning, sitting, twisting and
turning in a fruitless endeavor to find a
comfortable position. I’ve had a similar
experience trying to sleep in the back of
a capacious car. It’s just those two or
three inches short that prevent you from
stretching to full length that bring on the
horrors, and I nominate as one of the
worst possible tortures the confining of
a 6ft. man for a few hours in a sft. llin.
box.
♦ * * *
“Nakh”; The latest attack on Mel-
bourne’s arboreal beauty comes from a
correspondent to a daily who bitterly
complains of a fine old tree, an elm, I
fancy, which stands opposite the Town
Hall in Collins-street sending a delicate
pattern of limbs in winter and foliage in
summer 40ft. up amongst the city build-
ings. It is a relative giant with a butt of
2ft. 6in., and it leans, not so much as
Corot’s “Bent Tree,” but well out of the
perpendicular. The aggrieved one’s ob-
jection to it is, apparently, that it isn’t
as straight as a lamp-post, and cinema-
goers coming out of a theatre dreaming
of Betty Grable are liable to bump their
heads against it. He wants the City
Fathers to* chop it down, and it will be
surprising if they don’t, because it was
they who stealthily removed a row of
fine old trees on the other side of the
street some years ago and thus un-
dressed their own hall. There is a
prevalent delusion among Melbourne
citizens that their town is the world’s
wonder as a garden city. It isn’t by a
long chalk. The main thoroughfare
of Helsinki, Finland, makes Collins-
street look bare and treeless, and Paris
has a million more trees. The conveni-
ence of pedestrians gets short shrift in
European cities. I once dropped into a
cafd at Ostend for an 11 o’clocker, and
the waiter put chairs and tables on the
pavement, flanked them with trees in tubs
and served me while the pedestrians took to
the gutter without even a look of protest.
♦ ♦ * ♦
“Simon”: That well-known quotation
beginning “I expect to pass through this
world but once” never carries an author’s
name, for the reason that the author’s
name is forgotten, even if it was ever
known. That is what is usually held; but
40 years ago I was given a little book
For the Quiet Hour in which the thought
appears and is credited to Stephen Grel-
let. Who he was, don’t ask me.
* * * *
“Norther”: When a report reached
them that a human skull with a bullet-
hole in the forehead had been found on
an oyster-bed about 40 miles north of
Brisbane, a bunch of detectives galloped
to the spot, gathered it in and rushed it
back to the C. 1.8. experts. They identi-
fied it as belonging to a man about 35,
and everything was set for a new murder
mystery when a publican confessed it
was a souvenir from Pacific battlefields
and that he had “dumped” it. Whether
or not he got tired of having it
grin at him isn’t stated, but people
need to be careful about dumping things
like that. A friend of mine once dug
a skull out of a rabbit-warren located
on an old abo. burial-ground. He was
carrying it, wrapped in newspaper, on a
train, got off for refreshments, the news-
paper parted, somebody sighted the skull,
and when Artie got back from his pie
the guard, two porters, two police and a
gang of staring passengers were waiting
for him. The police accepted his explana-
tion, and let him travel on, but at every
station between there and his destination
other police checked to make sure he had
neither disposed of the evidence nor
cleared out
BALLADE CONTAINING RUM.
TMs strike of the miners, we’re told,
ruts miners themselves in the stew —
A sight which a lot to behold
Might wait quite a time in a queue,
With cannibalistical view
And hideous chanting and strum...’
An end to such dreaming! In lieu,
It s wonderful weather for rum 1
McGirr— what a fellow to scold!
10 spoke of a love-stricken gnu?)
had Chif.. .should we say, to the fold
Bleating down like a fatherly ewe?
Old Winter himself and—’tishoo! —
nie dull winds that follow his drum...
Well, thanks to them all for the cue,
Its wonderful weather for rum!
With goods which purveyors of old
Purveyed to the countless or few,
Prom under the counter now doled,
A treasure entirely new...
Some sugar, perhaps, if you mew,
Or, costing some corns on your turn.,
A candle 1... Oh, thank the Bon Dieu
Its wonderful weather for rum!
ENVOY.
What, empty the keg? And askew
Ihe flagon you reckoned had some?
Ah, well—may the thought comfort you!
It s wonderful weather for rum.
N.S.W.
MACANN.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Horseless Horseman”: How old can
a horse live to? Recently a 45-year-old
neddy belonging to J. P. Cordery, of
Albany (W.A-), had to be destroyed after
he had fallen down and was unable to
get up. Moreover, the moke worked
until two years ago, and for three decades
for the same owner. Twelve years back
Bill Hambling, of Dimbulah (N.Q.),
drove a 32-year-old and another
youngster of 29 in his buckboard mail-
coach to Wolfram, and that is one of
the roughest roads in Australia. At
Gabo Island (Vic.) the cart-horse used
today by the lightkeepers is also 32. A
kid I know on the Murray rides a lively
35-year-old pony mare 12 miles and back
to school daily. I know that’s her age
because I once rode the saine pony to
school. But 45 —can anybody beat it?
* * * *
“Linga Longa”: In our country town-
ship little Alfie, aged seven, home for
school holidays, asked his mother if she
would cut him some sandwiches and give
him a billy of tea for his lunch so that
“Betcha it isn't. I bet it’s that big new Hudson."
he might have it with some men working
on a job up the road. Well, everyone
knows everybody in this place, so that
was all right. Next day the youngster
repeated the performance, and on the
third morning asked his mother if she
would put one jam sandwich with his
lunch-*-“Only one?” “Yes, only one” —
which she did. Her curiosity aroused, she
approached the party cautiously through
some bush to see what this business was
all about. She saw the little group just
settling for lunch; the youngster, with
his little billy between his feet like all
the others, opened his packet of sand-
wiches, picked up the jam sandwich, said
“Bloody jam again!” and threw it over
his shoulder into the scrub.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”; The training of
bullocks (B. 15/6/’49)? Donkey Martin,
the old Port Augusta teamster, was the
master I knew. His method was to yoke
the new animal to a quiet-working bul-
lock and leave them to feed, sleep and
fight together for a month or so. The
worker kept the other jn check, and
when they were released it was hard to
say which was the quieter. Donkey used
a similar method to subdue unbroken
horses or mules. Tethered to two- beasts
in the middle of his team, the wildster
plunged and kicked itself unavailingly
into exhaustion. Modern youngsters may
view sights of which my generation only
dreamed, but they’ir never see the like
of Donkey Martin’s team coming over
the sand-dunes with a load of wool.
Donkey hauled much of the material
that went to the building of the Trans-
Australian Railway. The same job to-
day might be done with motor transport.
I wonder.
* * * *
“Islander”: Recent mention of a
“ship cult” amongst natives of New
Guinea recalls that some years ago ex-
converts of a Christian mission started
this new “religion” in a village of the
Vailala River, and it spread rapidly up
and down the coast. It was really an
independent native version of Christi-
anity, having as its featured tenet the
resurrection of the dead. First the ad-
herents of the cult were promised resur-
rection as mortals, then all the dead of
the past were to return to life. Every-
one was to reappear in a white skin, and
finally white men were believed to be
merely resurrected natives. In several
places a “first-supper” table was main-
tained awaiting the return of the dead ;
a white-man’s table laid with cloth, cut-
lery and dishes, with food ready. Then
news spread into Port Moresby that a
whole shipload of deceased relatives was
expected any day. The vessel would be
stocked with tinned-meat, tobacco,
knives, axes, rifles and ammunition, with
which the natives would run the present
“white ghosts” out of the country. Rou-
tine of village life was considerably dis-
turbed, gardens were neglected, regu-
lar work ceased and coconuts were
stacked until the arrival of the vessel.
When someone imagined the vessel was
sighted the whole village would rush out
repeating the cry. Planters in the
vicinity began to get the wind up at the
general lunacy, and the authorities were
obliged to take action, but by this time
most of the natives were affected by a
kind of St. Vitus’s dance. They threw
themselves into grotesque attitudes,
while others joined in frenzied dancing
and chanting, mostly distortions of
hymns. Large assemblies were naturally
the most violently affected, and it needed
only the contortions of a few to send
the whole village off into hysterics. One
theory is that the cult takes root in
communities where .the white man has
suppressed raiding and cannibalism, so
that the native must find other outlet for
his temperament.
* * * *
“Bolloong”: A pair of peewees which
haunt the gums in my garden conduct
a regular blitz on a jackass. Their tech-
nique is simple yet effective: one will
peel off and power-dive Jacko from the
rear; then the other takes it up. A few
of those and the cove with the brushed-
back hair suddenly remembers an urgent
appointment he had elsewhere. They
use with the cat much the same hovering
tactics adopted by Willie Wagtail, keep-
ing the game going until the fummy’s
blood-pressure is soaring into the second
century. A butcher-bird they treat with
such contempt that only one is detailed
off for the attack, which is usually
carried out silently and with success. But
I was surprised when they tackled a
family of frogmouths. Those fowl,
doing the imitation dead-branch act,
“This lines getting shorter and shorter since the housing scarcity."
completely ignored the pied attackers,
who, after a few dives, retired to a big
ironbark, there to squawk their angry
puzzlement at the strange refusal to be
browbeaten. Anyway, what was their
object in picking on the poor old mo-
pokes, who probably couldn’t see their
attackers, anyway? The peewees would
be as safe from punitive action by the
mopoke as the miners are from Chifley.
a* - # * *
“Telarb”: If there is one thing that
brings a genuine burst of wild enthusiasm
to the Torres Straits islander it is for
some seafarer to bring home a “Khazilai,”
or pregnant dugong. The little bloke is
carefully disinterred and pappaye, or kut
mare, is hastily prepared, with the em-
bryonic youngster as the piece de
resistance. I have been assured a hundred
times that it is delicious and a feast for a
gourmet. I accept it, but if it comes to a
choice between that sort of tucker and
the good old tinned horse —well, where’s
the ruddy tin-opener?
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Revisiting the old town
I ran into Bert, and somehow the theme
became councils. “Remember the council
we had in about ’nineteen?” I did.
“Remember how every ratepayer was
satisfied that it was the worst coun-
cil we’d ever had?” I remembered;
I also remembered that we bunged
’em all out and put another nine
in. “What a flop they turned out to be! ”
Bert recalled. “Remember how we
reckoned that they were even worse than
the other bunch? Gripes, we shifted ’em
at the next election, didn’t we?” My
memory still chuckled over that scatter.
Bert carried on the cavalcade: “The
next lot —holy mackerel, what a bunch of
no-hopers! I don’t think one of ’em got
fifty votes at the next election.” It was a
sweeping victory for the Ratepayers’
Nine; I remarked on it. “The Rate-
payers’ Nine?” Bert remembered them
all right. “Why, the first thing they did
was put the rates up! They were easily
the worst we’d ever had.” Then there
was the mob that got bunged out through
raising the sectarian issue. And the crowd
that followed —they were dumped be-
cause they didn’t raise it. But when he
reached the present day a sad note filtered
into Bert’s voice. “Yes,” he mourned,
“every lot got worse than the mob be-
fore. By cripes, we must’ve misjudged
the blokes we had way back in T 9.”
**♦ ' *
“Mat’s Mate”: Cashed up and well
dressed, we were enjoying the fleshpots
of Echuca with occasional forays across
the river to Moama and the Border Inn.
We’d conspired to be silent regarding our
social and commercial standing, with the
result that the natives had us taped as
anything from a couple of gun shearers
to a racehorse-owner and his jockey—me
being cast as the jock. To us there came
a man, and after debate we departed to
emu-bob 5000 acres somewhere nor’-west
of Wamboota, leaving our good clobber
and other unnecessary items in care of
old Bill Jensen, the publican. We stayed
outback nearly six months and both of
us grew beards. Mat a long, silky brown
one and I a fuzzy, red Irish one. The
boss looked us up after two months and
could hardly talk for laughing. When
he saw us again, six weeks later, he
laughed some more. He laughed again
when he came out to run the measuring-
chain round the job, The laughter got
Mat’s back up. “What’s wrong with
whiskers?” he wanted to know. “Blow
him. We’ll wear ’em when we get back
to town.” Presently Echuca was intrigued
by the sight of a brown-bearded giant
and a red-whiskered nugget making for
Jensen’s pub. Jensen served us without
a sign of recognition, then went out of the
bar. Before our beer was down he re-
appeared with his wife and two girls, the
latter new to us. Mat put down his pot
and backed out. “Gripes,” howled
Jensen, “it’s you blokes. Wouldn’t ha’
known it only Mat ducked when he seen
the wimmen.”
“Solitude”: Seventyfiver had been
smoking thoughtfully for some time.
“Hey, Sol,” he broke the silence, “what
year was it young Hardy was dingoin’
in behind Feathertop?” “Hardy? Aw,
let’s see. He was there that time you
caught the fox in the wool-shed. Re-
member?” “Yair, that’s right,” Seventy-
fiver agreed. “An’ it must ’a’ been
cornin’ on summer, ’cos the pelt wasn’t
much good. Sold it t’ Ted Wilson f’r
five bob. When was Wilson here?”
“Dunno. What are you so interested in
young Hardy for, anyway?” “I ain’t
interested in him,” frowned the old
bloke. “Only, it was when Hardy was
on the dingoes that Brady sold them
Shorthorn-cross cows to old Bill. Bill
had t’ grass ’em out nearly right away
because o’ the fire goin’ through half
his run, and it was me brought ’em down
for him. Told me t’ shove ’em into the
paddick of old Charlie’s on Butcher’s
Ridge, and it was when I was cornin’
back from there I met Budge.” “What’s
Budge got to do with it?” “Nothin’, o’
course,” Seventyfiver grunted impatiently,
“but it was him told me about the new
bloke just shiftin’ into the pub, that’s
all. An’ it was just before old Bung
moved out that the black mare of Sandy’s
had her foal in the pub yard.” “The one
you bought off Sandy as a two-year-old?
Old Punch?” “Yair,” he agreed. “I’m
just try in’ to work out how old Punch
is now.”
* * * *
“Subbo”: Yes, we’ve seen those dainty
ladies’-sabots (B. 18/5/’49), or similar
ones, but unfortunately, like many other
Australian ventures into old - world
methods of manufacture, they cost more
than their counterparts in the best of
leather. Clogs or sabots in Europe were
made and sold simply because they were
cheaper than shoes of leather. When
such artifacts of wood cost more than
similar ones of leather they definitely are
out so far as the Australian customer is
concerned. Actually, very good and ex-
tremely lasting footwear can be made of
discarded motor-tyres. Back in pre-war
days the Balkans and the Levant pro-
vided a constant market for the worn-out
tyres of the U.S.A. Very simple ; a little
slick cutting with a sharp knife and there
you had a sandal, with toe-thong and
ankle fastening all complete. And it
would see out at least half a dozen
wooden soles, and three or four leather
ones.
* * * *
“Sulphuric Sam”: Am quite prepared
to accept “Gravelsnatcher’s” report (B.
1/6/’49) as to the excellence of sand-and-
super. mortar as a lining both inside and
out for a mudbrick dwelling. Firstly,
superphosphate as sold contains quite a
lot of lime, that being the dilutant which
grades off the various percentages of
super.-strength. Second, having worked
in a super.-factory I occasionally had the
job of dynamiting the stuff. This hap-
pened when at some point of the works,
along conveyor-belt tracks mostly, fine
super, leaked out until it formed a mound
of perhaps a ton. Exposure to the weather
rendered such a mound so rocklike that
shooting it was the only way to break it
up for removal. Thus, mixed with sand,
super, has strong mortar quality.
NARBETHONG.
“Narbethong has changed since you and I said
good-bye there: St. Fillan is a stud-farm.”
—Letter to an Australian in London.
The afternoons were long and lazy as we sat
cheek to cheek
And idly watched the nodding daisy that dipped
in Fisher’s Creek,
Playing its game of “Charlie-over” while wave-
lets sang their song
To drowsy bees among the clover at sunny
Narbethong.
It rose and fell, that restless flower, a petalled
metronome,
As if ’twere ticking out each hour like some
relentless gnome,
Or some irrevocable drummer that urged the
stream along,
And marked the marching of the summer—even
at Narbethong!
The trees that sifted sunshine-dapples, the
dandelioned lawn,
The jays that clattered o’er the apples, the
scent of logs new-sawn,
The hilltop seat for twilight trysting, the moon’s
enchantment strong
Whose magic there was no resisting—ah me,'
ah, Narbethong!
The rainbow-trout’s exultant splashes, the coach
that used to stir
Below the towering mountain-ashes the echoes
of The Spur!
Recalled from that receptive era, Yotith’s recol-
lections throng:
Mimosa from the Riviera evokes far Narbe-
thong.
The forest-fires that gemmed with embers the
ramparts of the Range—
Such', silently, the heart remembers: the pictures
do not change.
Within their secret chamber’s setting I know
where they belong,
For I have learned beyond forgetting their place
at Narbethong.
I know ’tis true that “all God’s chillun” have
been endowed with wings,
For we essayed them at St./ Fillan when we
were queens and kings...
Mimosa? (Nay, tonight ’tis wattle; mimosa’s
false and wrong)
It calls, a genie from a bottle, the wraith of
Narbethong.
ENGLAND.
GUY INNES.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping . Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
3ACKSO*i£
riSUUJVAK
Mm
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW TORE
LETTERPRESS A OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
COLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
*JACKSUL.” BRISBANE
Take-Rub-Inhale
get rid
of thot
Double D
(sUCaMUud Sxtmcl
Get rid of your Cold os
quickly as possible
fight it 3 ways with
Double "D" Eucalyptus,
and drive it away fn
record time.
taks Lgr on
Chest and
back.
7/rWJM hot water
ie sure to use only genuine
Double “D” Eucalyptus—'lt’s
louble distilled, pure, strong
md reliable.
I/r & 1/9
wy W- fS<VK99
Double D
THI PURE mOMO RKAIYPTUI WITH THE MET ffiKH iMtt.L
|m-
i 11
an
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
“Simon Scrawler”: We had tried hard
to convince old Bill that a tree grows
upwards from the tip, not from the
ground. He clinched his argument with
“I don’t care what you experts say. When
the brother and I were kids we killed a
seven-foot black snake. So that we could
show people how long it was we held it
up beside a tree and took a chip out at
the height. Now, according to the tree,
that blasted snake must have been thirty
feet long!”
* * * *
“W.R.0.”: Our malaria-control unit
up north during the war was badly hit
by the butterfly-hunting craze, and
mounted some fine specimens in various
ways for souvenirs. But they were no
one-track-minders. One Sunday they in-
vited me to join an unofficial foray. Their
preparations included; Butterfly nets and
cyanide killing-bottles, a goodly supply of
gelignite, caps and fuse, an issue of bread
and butter, a tin of dripping and a frying-
pan “lifted” from the cookhouse. Safely
past the Provost at the traffic-control
point, I came to the surface again, and
our driver hurtled the truck along a
lantana-fringed by-road. Suddenly, in
a gully, he slammed his brakes, to the
imminent danger of the tropic dripping,
and all but me went overboard, to dash
madly through the shrubbery, nets aloft.
Soon they began depositing the catch in
the killing-bottles. Some dozen miles out
we came on one of those mountain creeks
so typical of the north —clear as gin. A
couple of plugs in sft. of water gave us
enough fish for dinner. My redressing
was interrupted by a crashing as of cattle
through timber. I’ll never forget the sight
of that] Digger, clad only in horn-rimmed
specs and Army boots, charging through
the undergrowth, waving his net. The
condition of his naked pelt when he re-
turned has made me suspicious of any
serviceman’s battle-scars ever since.
* * * *
“Young-timer”:. The old man blew in
from work tonight, sat down by the fire
and gazed thoughtfully into the flames.
“Well,” he said. “We’ll leave straight
after Christmas and make Albury in two
days.” The family gaped at him, but he
ignored us and, sliding further down into
the seat, he looked at the ceiling and said.
“After that we’ll follow down the river,
spend a few days in Echuca and then
drift on to Swan Hill. Then we’ll drop
into Euston, move on to Mildura and
maybe spend a coupla days there. From
Mildura I reckon we could go to South
Aussie and head for Adelaide. We’d
need at least a week in Adelaide, it’s a
wonderful place, Adelaide, y’ know, and
when we leave there we could make back
along the south coast of Victoria, through
Warrnambool, and into Melbourne. How
would you like us to come home. Missus,
over the mountains or back up the
coast?” By this time we knew what he
was talking about, and visions rose in my
mind of days spent idling by the rivers
and of drinking tea by the roadside while
the old car stood and rested and waited,
“But,” Mum protested, “they say accom-
modation is bad in country hotels?”
“Aw, that!” snorted the old man, his
mind in the past. “There’s plenty o’
bridges t’ sleep under, an’ railway culverts
an’ ” Mum gave that peculiar little
snort we all know so well, and the dream
vanished.
* * ♦ ♦
“Zake”: It had struck me that, in a
district where greyhounds were two a
penny, hares were as plentiful as they
were. I asked an old bushman how it was,
particularly that new mothers and their
“ Eight bells and all unwell, Sir!”
offspring survived, in view of the former’s
handicap and the latter’s helplessness.
He contended that immediately the
leverets are bom the mother becomes
scentless. I had been aware that the doe
constructs two separate nests, parking a
leveret in each. Apparently nature has
provided the added guard against the ex-
tinction of the species.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: That seafaring pig of
“Macnell’s” (B. 1/ 6 / ’49) recalls another.
How the grunter came to be swimming
around a wharf in Sydney Harbor was a
mystery never solved; but a carpenter
employed by the Harbor Trust saw him
first and accomplished a rescue. All day
the pig remained tethered by a rope to a
post in the shed. Next day he was still
at his post; no inquiries had been made
for him and there were no reports of a
missing pig. During the afternoon an
amused skipper informer the rescuer:
“That pig is your property now: under
Maritime Law any livestock rescued from
the sea and not claimed within twenty-
four hours automatically becomes the
property of the rescuer.” But what was
the use of a pig to a man who lived in a
flat? Chips didn’t seem to be worried
over that aspect; with considerable
assistance he managed to fit the animal
into a chaffbag and, grunting with the
load, headed for the nearest tram-stop.
In those days it was possible to get on a
tram without first dragging someone off;
but the conductor gaped at the immense
parcel heaved on by the boarding pas-
senger. Just as he was about to become
officious the outraged pig registered a
shrill protest. The trammie had a sense
of humor; he went his way chuckling.
From then on the yarn becomes fantasti-
cally ridiculous: how could a man
smuggle a pig into the bathroom of his.
flat, climb in the bath with the hog to
deliver the death-stroke —with a razor —
scald the carcass with hot water from the
bath-heater and complete the butchery
job—all so noiselessly that nobody even
suspected that dark deed was being com-
mitted. Nevertheless, next day Chips
generously distributed big cuts of pork to
his mates —and a nicer piece of pork I
never tasted!
“Blime”: Dill’s dog chased the rabbit
back across the flat, getting further behind
every yard. “He has a go at every-
thing,” remarked his boss. “But he
doesn’t often catch a feed. Gripes,
there’s another. Skitch him. Flop!” The
mong put up a valiant effort until he
lost the bunny in a fem-patch. We
turned up the hill, the dog concentrating
on the ground about, while Dill shifted
his optics to the sky. “Ain’t seen a pair
o’ wedgies around, have y’?” he asked
presently. “They’re late this mornin’.”
A few minutes later there soared over
the hill the wedgetails, one bird circling
slowly. Suddenly it swooped to the
ground, and we watched as it perched
on a log and was joined by its mate.
“There they are, Come on, Flop; we’ll
get one!” yelled Dill, lumbering after
the pair with the speed and grace of a
lame elephant. “Hey, don’t be mad,” I
argued, tailing him. “You can’t catch
a wedgie like that.” Dill Wouldn’t listen.
Lining himself behind a tree, he got in
close, then jumped out at the eagles,
screeching as he ran. Both birds took
oS. “Here y’ are. Flop; here y’ are,”
he bawled, diving towards the log. “A
three-quarter grown hare t’day, and they
ain’t et more’n a little patch orf its
middle!”
* * * *
“Bo”: The old hatter came trudging
slowly along the dusty road, a roll of
blankets diagonally across his back, and
at his heels walked a liver-colored dog
which carried in its mouth by the handle
a billycan which had a smaller billy in-
side it. He turned into the first farm-
house to scrounge a bit of tea. The
woman who came to the door was a bit
puzzled as he took the cans from the
dog and handed over the big one, she
having offered to make the tea for him
then and there. “Why do you have
the dog carry the two cans?” she asked.
The old hatter looked at her in sur-
prise. “Gripes,” he said, “one’d make
’im lopsided. ’Ave you ever tried
carryin’ one suitcase, missus?”
. * * * *
“S.W.”: The sulphur-crested cockatoo
was on his perch as usual on the veran-
dah of Ryan’s pub. The only thing
stronger than its vocabulary was a
periodical desire to gain its freedom, and
to this end, when the urge was upon it,
the bird was given to gnawing at its
chain. The screech of a few cockatoos
in the corn-paddock behind the pub
seemed to give it the extra incentive, and
the chain snapped, leaving about a
foot of it trailing from Pete’s collar. The
bird flew down to the verandah, tested its
undercarriage with a few tentative hops
and, using only a small runway, took off.
Climbing steeply, Pete, wheeled just over
the power-lines. As the dangling chain
dragged across it there cam© a blinding
flash and Pete took a nosedive. Groggily
he rose, and as the odor of singeing
feathers rose on the still air Pete stag-
gered, looked at the astonished drinkers
on the pub verandah and croaked “What
blankard let that blanky hunger off! ”
* * * *
“Phinemuri”: Trials of strength have
always had a strong appeal to the Maori,
and when Wiri saw the two trains backed
in guard’s-van to guard’s-van the tempta-
tion was too much for him. Knowing
that the trains departed in opposite direc-
tions simultaneously he quietly joined the
couplings of the vans together. At
departure-time the station-master gave
both trains the “right away.” There was
a great puffing, laboring of engines and
slipping wheels, and Wiri could be seen
at the tug-of-war line waving a fistful of
notes and shouting “I’ll have fi’ pound
on te Wanganui train!” He brought £3
and costs when he appeared before a
couple of soulless J.Ps, the next day.
COUNTRY RAILWAY.
Bare ’neath the sun the little station stands,
An island set within the stretching lands,
Its iron roof white-hot against the sky,
White as the blazing rails that glisten by.
The train snorts on; the gates are opened wide;
The sheep retreat along the railway side.
Now, on the platform, slowly moving men
Talk for a while, then disappear again,
A willy-willy, in a hurry, twirls
Along the road with dusty twists and curls; *
The railway-station roof expands with heat,
And two white lines burn on until they meet.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


'THAT
This responsibility
is yours
Your beneficiaries have every right to expect that your
estate will be handled with the utmost care. If your
judgment is faulty, imprudent administration can endanger
assets built up by your energy and foresight. However, it
is a simple matter to provide competent control: the
appointment of Burns Philp Trust Company as executor
or trustee ensures that your beneficiaries will be protected
at every turn.
A copy of "Hands That Never Leave the Wheel" will be
forwarded on request. Full details of the Company's many
services are given in this interesting booklet.
DIRECTORS:
James Burns Joseph Mitchell P. T. W. Black Eric Priestley Lee
MANAGER: L. S. Parker SECRETARY: E. R. Overton, A.F.I.A.
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR • TRUSTEE • AGENT
Constituted by Special Act of the N.S.W. Parliament.
Head Office; 7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Tel.: BU 5901 Box 543, G.P.0., Sydney
. BP2-49
FRGIH6 H PRRK
The one thing you will tmnw
diately notice when vou stay at
the Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and hustle. . . . The
Wentworth faces a park . . . yet
It is merely "round the comer”
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are aD you would wish
. . . the service end cuisine
excellent.
THE WENTWORTH
In <r~^>i4clne^
Thone BW 136! (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan. Managing Director
m
m
m
ordon's
Stands Supk&HUV
By Appointment
Cio DUtiilwr*
H.M. King Ccergt V|V
(Tonqueroy. Cordon AC* Uf
Qua/trfy
sruxnnfi4t/ui&e
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Ltd.
Net
Earn- Debenture
Mar., ings. Interest. Dividend. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1943 210,068 62,297 6 p.e. = 144,000 1,691,529
Net addition goodwill, £4015 .. 1,687,614
1944 260,878 62,276 6 p.c. = 144,000 1,742,116
1945 194,077 62,094 5j „ „ 132,000 1,742,099
Net addition goodwill, £8729 .. 1,733,370
1946 188,912 62,097 5J p.c. = 132,000 1,728,185
1947 229,539 62,097 6 „ „ 144,000 1,751,627
Interest arrears recovered, £77,904]
Less exchange and premiums on ( - In ,
debenture repayment, £463,960.. ( I>ao 1 > a04 > iUA
Addition goodwill, £11,470
1948 303,234 61,268 8 p.c. = 213,333 1,882,734
Special grant staff fund, £20,000 .. 1,362,734
Added goodwill, £12,180 . . .. 1,350,554
Interest arrears recovered, £173,685.. 1,524,239
1949 412,749 10 p.c. = 820,000 1,616,988
Special grant staff fund, £20,000 .. 1,596,988
Last two years have been among the best
in Australia’s pastoral history. Better-
than-average rainfall increased both the
wool-clip and turn-off of fat lambs and
cattle, while prices for the staple rose to
unprecedented levels and figures for live-
stock remained very high. And last term
the co., second biggest of its kind in the
Commonwealth, widened the spread of
its net by opening 12 new branches —five
in Queensland, three in Westralia, two
in Victoria and one each in N. S. Wales
and South Aus. It also collected £173,685
arrears of interest previously struck off
as irrecoverable. Turnover increased by
35.6 p.c, (£10,500,000), passing the
£40,000,000-mark, having almost doubled
in the last two years.
During the year an extra 45,405 bales
wool were put under the hammer:
' Bales Australian
Year to Carry Average
Mar. 31, Received. Sold, etc. Forward, per Bale, t
1939.. 302,563 351,791 26,166 £l3 4 0
1946.. 293,800 291,796 11,445 20 8 9
1947.. 326,500 289,655 47,826 31 6 9
1948.. 334,600 316,982 64,734 50 11 6
1949.. 355,700 862,387 57,491 57 15 0*
t For year to June 30. * Estimate.
Price per bale (up 14.1 p.c.) was the
highest yearly-average ever recorded for
Australian wool. A record number of
sheep (5,250,000), cattle (295,000) and pigs
(115,000) was also auctioned, land sales
totalled £1,950,000, and bigger returns
from merchandise and from the co.’s
own properties in western N. S. Wales
and Queensland helped to swell earnings,
too.
Excluding arrears of interest recovered,
the spring in gross earnings was £481,981:
Provi-
Year Gross* Debenture dent Net
Mar., Profit. Expenses. Interest. Fund. Profit.
£ £ £ £ £
1939.. 736,285 548,125 62,500 8,500 117,160
1946.. 924,990 725,776 62,097 10,302 126,815
1947. 1,130,040 888,340 62,097 12,161 167,442
1948. . 1,443,967 1,124,417 61,268 16,315 241,967
1949.. 1,925,948 1,494,573 18,626 412 ; 749
* Includes surplus on realisation of investments.
Exes, and contribution to the staff fund
took £372,467 of the gain, and, with the
old debenture debt (repaid in the previous
term) out of the way, the net result bene-
fited by £170,782. The £412,749 of profit
was 12.9 p.c. on capital as against 11.2
p.c. and 6.9 p.c. for the two preceding
years. Uncertain of what lies ahead, the
board kept the div, at 6 p.c, and added a
4 p.c. bonus (2 p.c. in the previous term),
making 10 p.c. for the year.
Strong liquid resources, and therefore
plenty of elbow-room to assist clients
when the need arises, is the outstanding
feature of the balance-sheet position:
1941. 1947. 1948. 1949.
£ £ £ £
Capital .. 2,400,000 2,400,000 3,200,000 3,200,000
Debentures 1,412,586 1,407,549 8,603
Creditors .. 881,960 1,609,213 2,279,641 3,573,391'
Tax reserve 105,413 165,714 311,648 371,751
Liquids .. 790,048 2,198,139 2,161,425 3,642,226
Advances .. 4,321,102 8,788,827 3,588,816 3,594,289
Stocks .. 247,553 244,988 332,642 483,054
Shares in
subsidiary 73,536 73,536
Shares other
cos. .. 44,121 45,556 45,161 52,517
Prop’ty, etc. 1,132,172 1,072,849 1,067,820 1,047,900
Plant .. 96,825 74,744 112,078 158,303
The year’s growth of £1,293,750 in the
amount coming to creditors (partly sums
held in trust or on deposit for clients)
and of £1,480,801 in liquids (mainly Gov-
ernment securities and cash) are inter-
related.
Since balancing date the co. has bought
at an unstated figure the Pyrmont store
and goodwill of the wool, produce and
stock business of Australian Wool
Brokers and Produce Co., a Sydney con-
cern with a paid capital of £lBO,OOO in
24,600 7 p.c. and 30,733 5 p.c. cum. par-
ticipating prefs. and 125,000 ords. At
June 30, 1948, the store stood in the
vendor’s books at £90,000 and goodwill
at £20,000. Profit for the year was
£14,814, and the ords. got 5 p.c., first
taste for a decade or more, followed by
an interim at the rate of 7 p.c. p.a. for
the current term. The vendor’s 35,385-acre
sheep property (Glenroy) in nor’-west
N. S. Wales, in the books at £90,000-odd,
is not included in the deal. Co. handled
about 20,000 bales of wool last year.
The immediate seasonal outlook is
favorable over most of Australia, but the
industrial chaos into which the coalminers
have plunged the country means delays
and loss to growers, brokers and buyers,
while the burden of costs grows heavier.
The intriguing question is: How long will
wool prices remain around present levels?
G.M.’s chairman, K. M. Ni&ll, says:
No one can forecast reliably the future
level of values, but derifand is still in excess
of current production, particularly for the
finer apparel wools, and there do not
appear to be any substantial stocks held in
manufacturing centres. The improved posi-
tion of consumers oversea appears to be
the greatest factor in maintaining demand.
Because of its superiority to other clothing
material they will buy wool if they can
afford it, so that a maintenance of payable
prices appears to depend on the continuance
of a high level of employment in Europe
and America.
If present world trends prophesy any-
thing at all it is early disappearance of
the post-war sellers’ market and a lower
level of prices generally, with some un-
employment, especially in America and
Europe. Another factor not to be dis-
regarded is the possibility of further loss
from appreciation of the Australian cur-
rency in terms of sterling should the
latter be devalued in relation to the
dollar. All this has to be set against the
background of relatively inflexible costs
we have built up.
The market sums up the position by
pricing the pound shares at 325. 3d.
(375. 6d. early in 1949), at which figure
the return is 6.2 p.c. so long as the 10 p.c.
distribution continues, or 4.3 p.c. on a
7 p.c. div. basis. Net tangible cover
(book-value) is 30s.
Bankers and Traders’ insurance Co.
To
March, Surplus. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.*
£ £ £ £
1941.. 28,585 7 p.c. = 118 194 203 405
To contingencies, £l5OO J ‘ 4Ud,4U&
From inner reserves, £25,000 .. 228,405
1942.. 42.823 7 p.c. = 10,211 32,612 261,017
1943.. 44,024 7J „ ~ 10,960 33,064 294,081
1944.. 85,674 8 „ ~ 11,691 23,983 318,064
1945. . 43,634 8$ „ „ 12,422 81,212 349,276
1946.. 46,243 9 „ „ 13,716 82,527 381.803
1947.. 75,213 9 ~ „ 17,097 58,116 439,919
From inner reserves, £lO,OOO .. 449,919
1948.. 113,289 9ip.c.= 18,641 94,648 544,567
Tax refunds, etc., £25,000 .. 569,567
1949.. 120,656 12$p.c.= 24,528 96,128 665,695
* Includes reserve for unexpired risks.
The co, continues to step along like a
thoroughbred, thanks* partly to an ex-
panding volume of world trade at rising
prices and partly to the ginger put into
the hunt. Since 1946 the growth in net
premiums amounts to no less than 85 p.c.,
or £485,498, of which £196,063 was in
respect of last term, when the improve-
ment was almost equally divided between
local and overseas sources. During the
year five new branches opened their
doors—two each in N. S. Wales and Vic-
toria and one in Pakistan—while Java
and Granada were added to the under-
writing list and new marine settling
agencies were established in Brazil,
Cyprus, Iran and the Persian Gulf.
Underwriting performances compare
as follows:
N et Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Ratio. Ratio.
1939.. 224,287 132,110 77,277 58.9 p.c. 34.4 pC.
1945.. 342,481 163,893 146,788* 47.8 „ 42.9* ,
1946.. 354,299 160,9X7 160,567* 45.4 45 2*
1947.. 453,884 224,709 169,815* 49.5 „ 37'.4 ”
1948.. 643,734 351,417 197,597* 54.6 „ 30.7 ,
1949.. 839,797 440,936 299,460* 52.5 „ 35.6 „
* Excludes tax on investment income.
The loss ratio, more favorable in Aus-
tralia than overseas, showed a pleasing
drop of £2 2s. p.c. last term —it is a factor
over which the management has little
control. The growth of £4 18s. p.c. in the
expense rate, which is still moderate, was
due mainly to the inevitable cost of open-
ing new branches and agencies, full bene-
fits from which are likely to take years to
accrue.
The underwriting surplus was £4681
stronger at £99,401, of which £78,500 was
used to strengthen the reserve for un-
expired risks, raising it to £336,000, or
40 p.c. of the year’s net premiums, which
is the ratio usually considered adequate
for the purpose. The £20,901 that re-
mained, together with £21,225 (up £2686)
net from interest and rents, made the net
amount available for shareholders £42,156
(up £3867), or 21.4 p.c. on capital as
against 19.5 p.c, and 17.9 p.c. for the two
preceding years. The div, was lifted from
9i p.c. to 10 p.c., and a special 2\ p.c,
bonus, “not to be taken as indicating
future dividend policy,” was added, mak-
ing p.c. for the year.
The net return from investments alone
was 10.8 p.c. on capital, leaving most of
the underwriting surplus to swell invest-
ments and returns therefrom. At last
year’s rate of increase the net return from
investments would only be about £6OO
short of the amount that 12| p.c. on
capital calls for. So, despite the possi-
bility of less favorable underwriting ex-
perience in the future, the market prices
the pound shares paid to 10s. each at
435. 6d. (425. a year ago), giving an im-
mediate return of about 2.3 p.c. on a 10
p.c. div. basis, or 2.8 p.c. on a 12£ p.c. dis-
tribution, Net tangible cover is 435. lid,
per share.
The financial set-up is a very strong
one for both policyholders and share-
holders:—
1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital .. .. £196,225 £196,225 £196,225
Sundry creditors* .. 127,522 79,852 106,485
Outstanding claims, etc. 228,055 263,148 336,126
Freeholds .. .. 202,000 202,000 214,388
Government securities 394,766 401,202 422,360
Advances co-ops.f .. 46,971 87,345 135,136
Shares subsids. .. 9,996 14,995 19,995
Shares other cos. ~ 59,401 87,194 124,082
Book debts, etc. .. 192,584 231,228 290,440
Gash 94,833 69,649 112,847
* Includes provision for taxation. f Advances to
building co-op. societies.
Although Government securities (up
£22,158) account for 32 p.c. of total
assets, more attention is now being given
to guaranteed advances to co-operative
building societies (up £47,791) and in-
dustrial shares, etc. (up £36,888), which
augurs well for the return from invest-
ments.
William Adams and Co.
, Dividends >
Pref. To Re- Re-
April, Profit. 7 p.o. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£> £, £, £,£>
1942.. 40,195 1750 10.1 p.c. = 24,792 13,653 67,505
1943.. 40.094 1750 10.1 „ „ 24,792 13,552 81,057
1944.. 40.449 1750 10.1 „ „ 24,792 13,907 94,964
1945.. 37.960 1750 10.1 „ „ 24,792 11,418 106,382
1946.. 41.821 1750 10.1 „ „ 24,792 15,279 121,661
1947.-53,763 1750 10.1 „ „ 35,416 16,597 138,258
From tax reserve, £25,000 .. .. 163,258
Unexplained addition, £lB7B .. .. 164,636
1948.. 85.217 1750 10.1 p.e.= 35,416 48,051 212,687
, Share premiums, £90,000 .. .. 302,687
Unexplained addition, £1686 .. .. 804,373
1949.101,635 1750 12.8 p.e.= 58,229 41,656 346,029
The post-war leap in earnings reflects
the heavy demand for engineering and
electrical supplies, lubricants and various
hardware lines that this well-established
co. with Commonwealth-wide connec-
tions handles. To help underpin the
bigger trading—much of it is expected
to hold because of the country’s actual
and potential industrial expansion and
currency inflation the board has
gathered £210,000 of fresh capital in two
equal lots ; the first at par in August,
1946, and the second at a premium of
12s. a share (85.7 p.c.) in July, 1948. The
premium, fixed by near-sighted capital-
control authority, has been added to re-
serves and makes the div. worth little
more than half the declared rate on the
last £105,000 of capital.
No time was lost in finding profitable
employment for the money put up by
shareholders, and more besides. It went
mainly into stocks and debtors’ balances,
up £103,173 and £148,932 respectively
last term:
1946. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital.. £270,000 £875,000 £875,000 £480,000
Liabilities* .. 360,906 376,422 532,196 556,251
Freeholds ~ 116,999 138,206 183,206 148,607
Plant, etc. .. 12,086 17,712 80,591 41,672
Stocks .. 810,468 889,173 514,610 617,783
Book debts .. 300,602 347,204 436,470 585,402
Cash, shares, etc. 25,880 21,165 23,786 24,024
* Including provision for tax and contingencies.
The year’s net addition to fixed assets
was £26,482, When the books closed
more or less liquids exceeded liabilities
by £671,058 (up £235,388), and there was
13s. sd. of outside money (including pro-
vision for taxation and contingencies)
at risk in the business for every pound
belonging to shareholders.
Profit was £16,418 stronger at £101,635,
which covered the pref. div. and 22 p.c.
on average ord. capital as against 23.8,
14,9, 16.3, 14.7 and 15.7 p.c. back to
1944. A bonus of a share was
added to the 10.1 p.c. div., making 12.8
p.c. for the year, with the proviso that it
“should not be construed as indicating
that the increased rate of distribution will
continue.”
A steady-10.1 p.c. was paid for the 11
years to 1947. For 16‘ years before that
those in the engineering and ancillary
trades were faced with a combination of
high costs and severe competition,
especially from cheap-labor countries,
which culminated in slump in the early
1930’5, During these 16 years the co,
paid divs. averaging 2.3 p.c. and jet-
tisoned £70,500 of its ord. capital. What
is likely to happen in the future in con-
nection with overseas competition is
difficult to evaluate at the moment; but
the increased productivity needed to
make a successful attack on Europe’s
problem of poverty is not likely to be
achieved, if it can be achieved, in
domestic markets alone. Another factor
that cannot be ignored is what
might happen in connection with ex-
change rates. Meanwhile, Australia’s
Communist-inspired nation-wide coal
strike has dealt the whole economy a
heavy blow, the effects of which will be
felt for some time to come, more severely
on the producing than the distributing
side of industry.
The co., however, is in a very much
stronger position than it was 20 years


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS;
O. 0. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRIJAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN C. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. O. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in ail Country Centres
Commonwealth of Australia
FEDERAL LAND TAX RETURNS
Returns of land held at midnight on 30th June, 1949, are required to be
lodged on or before 31st August, 1949.
Land Tax returas must be submitted by persons resident in the Commonwealth
when the total unimproved value of land held is £4OOO or over, and by or on
behalf of absentees where the unimproved value is £1 or over.
Where land holdings have altered in any way since 30th June, 1948, Form “C”
should be used. Where no change has taken place a declaration (Form “CA”) to
that effect is sufficient.
The unimproved value to be returned is that as at 80th June, 1939. For Land
Tax purposes values are pegged at this date.
Where land is held in more than one State returns should be forwarded to the
Deputy Federal Commissioner of Taxation, Box 769 G, G.P.0., Melbourne. Forms of
return and full information may be obtained at the principal Post Offices or at Federal
Taxation Office, 3rd Floor, Savings Bank Building, 21/23 Elizabeth Street, Sydney—
Postal address Box 4046, G.P.0., Sydney.
Penalty for late lodgment: 10 p.c. additional tax —minimum £l.
r Penalty for failure to lodge returns: £lOO.
Note: Perpetual Crown Leased which are not subject to revaluation or which have
the right of purchase must be included in the return.
/ 1 i
W. A. PERT, Deputy Commissioner of Land Tax. •
C0a1...
i
MILLIONS OF YEARS TO PRODUCE
Burned
in a Second
. . . How import-
ant it is, therefore,
to burn coal
properly and eco-
nomically, how-
ever great or small
the daily con-
sumption. With
world - wide ex-
perience, and a
knowledge of
Australian coals
that extends back
over 60 years,
Babcock specialise
in the design and
manufacture of
the most efficient
steam - raising
plant for all pur-
poses.
Lonoiftuciiinai section
section
of a B. & W, High
Head boiler unit...
arranged for pul-
Vi- ~ ;■
verised coal firing.
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS
HEAD OFFICE & WORKS - - REGENTS PARK. N.SJ.
Branch Offices and Agencies in all States
DAVIES & OOLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cyl.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone: MX 2208.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO ANNIE McBETH late of Redfem.—
TAKE NOTICE that HERBERT ALEX-
ANDER CHARLES McBETH has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1981 of 1949
on the ground of desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or excuse
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 14th
day of September 1949 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
FRED A. NEWNHAM, Solicitor, 28
Martin Place, Sydney.— (l.s.) J.
DOUGHAN, Acting Registrar in Divorce.
THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
•
Under
STATE GUARANTEE.
•
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
•
Writ? or Call for
Free Booklet
19 O’Connell Street
(Box 7A, G.P.0.), Sydney.
P. J. P. Pollen, Public Trustee,
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY. LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
Alt Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS' AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
? close*
-v
•;•:"• .v' • V.’
ge^
oEffl
55*3
lK=:
COMPLETE
3<
\
WITH 2 BLADES
IN NEAT PLASTIC
v case y
|lOlO ** OCtOCA' SMWOf? IV/7H ®2S<
—the razor with the heavy
surgical steel blade that
gives double the usual
number of shaves. No
drag, no pull, just a sweet,
smooth shave.
Obtainable everywhere ,
fS2B « 4»
1o compf e ' te ©vening
comfort of an tt? e
at home.
» fine
f There 9
|prt i» CAFSI^S.
tti«o66eiew w *^
f
ifi
V*
a
CAPSTAN
THE EMPIRE’S FAVOURED CIGARETTE
ago, there is a wide margin be-
tween earnings and distribu-
tions, and a different set of fac-
tors makes up the overall posi-
tion. The market therefore
prices the f.-p. 14s. shares at
295, (31s. 6d. six months ago), at
which figure the return is 6.2
p.c. on a 12.8 p.c. distribution
or 4.9 p.c. on a 10.1 p.c, div.
basis. Cover is 245. Bd. in net
tangibles.
Alluvial Gold, a Sydney-con-
trolled holding and prospecting
co. (paid capital £BO,OOO in £1
shares), has exercised its option
over an alluvial tin area (1054
acres) between Ravenshoe and
Mt. Garnet, on the Atherton
Tableland (N.Q.). The ground
has been Check-bored at a cost
of about £4OOO, and is estimated
to contain 31,000,000 c.y.,
averaging 10.50 z. of 72 p.c. t.o.
per yard. Water can be pumped
from the Herbert River. Total
amount payable to vendor is
£40,000. Co. has also applied
for mining and dredging leases
covering 590 acres of beach
sands containing rutile and zir-
con in the Tweed River district
(N.S.W.), and an option has
been taken over a silver-lead
lode now being investigated af
Mt. Barker (Q.). At end June,
1948, co. had £20,241 in the
bank, and there was £5030 com-
ing to sundry creditors.
* * * *
London - controlled Golden
Horseshoe (New), which has
been successfully cyaniding the
old tailing dumps on the Cool-
gardie field (W.A.) for the last
20 years, netted £5274 in 1948,
and paid out £5042 of it in a
2d. div. (8.3 p.c.), less English
tax of 9s. in the £. Allowing for
the tax and exchange, the div.
is worth 5.7 p.c. in Australian
currency. Co. is still treating
Boulder Perseverance’s accumu-
lated tailings on a 50-50 profit
basis. No. 1 dump has been
worked out, and there is some
1.641.000 tons of material
(about 2j years’ work) in No. 2
dump yet to be put through.
At end Dec. last current
assets totalled £129,510, of
which £94,967 was cash and
Government securities. Includ-
ing the div., liabilities amounted
to £20,772.
v ** * *
Nevoria Gold Mines, Ltd.,
registered in South Africa, re-
cently got its London mining
consultants, Pellew-Harvey and
Co., to investigate the Nevoria
property on the Yiigam field
(W.A.). The report says
“property is a potentially profit-
able gold producer on a very
large scale, fully justifying
further intensive development
and preparation for milling on
the lines recommended.” Rea-
sonably-assured ore is estimated
at about 350,000 tons, of which
182.000 tons is oxides and
75.000 tons sulphides, both
averaging a shade over 4dwt.,
and the balance sulphides
averaging 6dwt. Future of the ,
mine lies in the sulphide zone,
where an average head value
of 6dwt. is anticipated, and the
ore doesn’t need roasting. On
a throughput of 350,000 tons
p.a. operating costs are not ex-
pected to exceed 335. (Aus.) per
ton. Development footage re-
quired to put the first 1,000,000
tons into ore reserve is put at
26,000 ft. and the cost £A156,000.
It is doubtful, however, whether
the co. will do anything to equip
the property until it can see more
clearly where costs are likely
to settle.


Men Who Know Wine.
Know
A-iniaisNOdsaa
anoA
/ definite and very practical
way to provide for your depend-
ants' security is for you to take
out a Suitable life assurance
policy with the Equitable
Probate Si General Insurance
Co. Ltd.
The wide experience of “ The
Equitable ” in these matters
is readily available . , . „
L ’phone or write to-dqy,
R. V. PERKINS, General Mgr.
J
dgf
To safeguard the welfare
of your dependents
A simple procedure
1. Make a list of your Assets and your Liabilities—
and of those whom you wish to share in your
Estate.
2. Confer with a Senior Officer of Perpetual
Trustee Company Limited and make a sound
• plan for your Estate so that your dependents
shall receive the maximum benefit.
3. Have your Solicitor draw your Will so that it
embodies this plan.
4. Appoint Perpetual Trustee Company Limited as
your sole Executor —or jointly with a relative
or friend. The Company’s 62 years’ experience
and Its facilities will ensure efficient management
of your Estate—when it is called upon to act.
The services offered by the Company—and its
charges are explained in a booklet, “Your Executor
and Trusteewhich has been found most helpful
by many men (and women) with Estates to_ bequeath..
Call or write for a copy today,
PERPETUAL
Trustee Company Limited
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE
AGENT UNDER POWER OF
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES
& OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR,
BTC.
•
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS
UNDER ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £67,000,000 (the
average Estate being less than
£10.006).
Directors:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C.,
Chairman;
E. K, KNOX; ALLEN C. LEWIS;
Hon. J. P. ABBOTT, M.H.K.;
D. B. LYSAGHT;
SAMUEL HOBDERN;
H. V. DOUGLASS,
Managing Director.
A. G. ABMYTAGSh Manager.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WAQOA WAQQA. TAMWORTH and ORAEGB
Business.Rollery.Etc.
Vulcan and His Coal
One fact must be dawning qn
the would-be wreckers —they
have bluffed nobody. There was
a pretty touch of insouciance in
Broken Hill Pty.’s announce-
ment last week that it was
finalising the purchase’of another
coalmine (the Stockton Bore-
hole). The present hiatus in its
steel production gives the com-
pany just a little more scope
for pushing ahead with its great
development programme.
As Stockton Borehole already
sends most of its coal to the
Newcastle steelworks, the ob-
ject behind B.H.P.’s straight-
out purchase would be to pep
up production with doses of
machinery, along the lines of
Mt. Nebo and the other B.H.P.
collieries.
When trading in B.H.P.’s own
share-rights began last week
the sharemarket tone was about
as calm as the company’s. A
total recorded turnover of less
than 30,000 rights in Sydney
and Melbourne in the four days
was an insignificant fraction of
the 4.6 million made available
to shareholders, and the prices
of these marginal sales were
very sound having regard to
the special stress which the coal
trouble would put on B.H.P.
holders. At the week’s closing
price of 9s. 7d., the rights were
about Is. 4d. cheaper than
standing shares on a paid-up
basis (allowing for dividend
differences) scarcely enough
for any arbitrage profit after
paying brokerage. As a long-
term holding they are still
attractive at 9s. 7d., equal to
395. 7d. for fully-paid scrip.
The price of Stockton Bore-
hole hasn’t yet been disclosed.
These negotiations have been in
train for some time. Fifteen
months ago shareholders of
Stockton authorised their board
to sell the colliery at “a satis-
factory price,” and the feeling
was that this would be about
book-values. At last balancing-
date the mine figured at
£53,044, equal to Bs. 6d. per
share. In addition there were
current assets of 10s. a share
net (in cash or Government
bonds). Thus the 18s. 6d. paid
up on each share was exactly
covered by assets. Whether the
mine’s book-value represents an
acceptable price to B.H.P. re-
mains to be learned (it has been
depreciated in the books by
£29,000 since 1939); meanwhile
holders of the Borehole scrip
are sensibly holding out for
19s. on ’Change.
Stockton Borehole’s history
can stand as typical of most
colliery cos. In 28 years’ exist-
ence it has recorded nearly as
many losses as profits, and divi-
dends have averaged p.c.
Shareholders in these cos. may
certainly have a clear conscience
in the present trouble; they
have borne a kind of special tax
throughout the years, providing
an-essential commodity for the
nation at a loss.
Taxpayers should notice, in
passing, the progress made in
Britain so far by nationalised
coal. The National Coal
Board showed a loss of
£S23 million in 1947, and
a small profit of £SI.6 mil-
lion last year; the second re-
sult was due to extremely high
selling prices for the coal
(especially exports) which can-
not be mantained, as the board
itself recognises. After two
years of State control absentee-
ism remains much higher than
in 1938, output per man “lags
well behind” pre-war (the board
says), and the cost of production
is 465. sterling a ton as against
16s. in 1938 —startling figures in
comparison with those in Aus-
tralia. One of the wisest sug-
gestions of Mr. Justice David-
son —whose various reports
comprise this country’s scripture
on coal —was to wait and see
what happened in Britain —
where, incidentally, the argu-
ments for State control were
somewhat less thin than here.
If Britain Devalues
There would be three possible
ways for Australia to react when
sterling is depreciated. We might
leave the Australian pound un-
changed. Or we could write it
down to the same extent as
sterling. Or, to compromise, we
could go down part of the way
with sterling.
In comparing the merits of
This result might only be wanted
in depressed circumstances—
and a large devaluation by Aus-
tralia could be challenged by the
International Monetary Fund.
Thirdly, if Australia went only
half-way down with sterling—
depreciating, say, by 10 p.c.
against a sterling fall of 20 p.c.—
the result might be roughly to
maintain the status quo. What
exporters lost in sterling ex-
change, they would pick up in
non-sterling ; and likewise with
the effect on import prices. A
10 p.c. cut could be made in
“Well, there's MY ‘right to strikesee ?”
these three choices, notice that
sterling transactions account for
about half of Australian overseas
trade. The United Kingdom it-
self is the customer for about
42 p.c. of Australia's export
sales, and, taking in her colonies
and dependencies (which are on
sterling or linked with it), the
ratio is 49 p.c. On the other
side, Britain is providing 50 p.c.
of Australia’s imports—with the
dependencies, a little more.
To take the first choice: if
sterling was devalued by, say,
20 p.c. and our pound did not
change, the two currencies
would be at par—and the effects
would be deflationary for Aus-
tralia. ! On half of our exports
there would be a total loss of
the present exchange profit for
producers; whilst about half the
imports into Australia would
enter at cheaper prices, under-
cutting the local manufacturer.
Such deflationary effects may be
acceptable to the Government
only in a boom period.
In the second alternative, with
Australia following Britain all
the way down in a devaluation,
the British pound would still be
worth 255. Australian, and the
basis of our trade with U.K.
would remain unchanged. But,
like Britain, we would have
undercut the other world cur-
rencies, and the results would
be inflationary. Exporters would
get higher exchange profits on
the non-sterling half of their
trade; local manufacturers
would get more shelter from
dearer non - sterling imports.
Australian currency without
reference to Washington.
Whether it will be desirable to
inflate our economy, deflate it or
hold the status quo will depend
on conditions at the time of
Britain’s devaluation. The many
cries that were heard in the land
12 months ago, calling upon the
Government to gird itself and
advance to par with sterling,
have faded in these days of
overseas recession. The deeper
this recession, the more chances
of a British devaluation, but also
the greater likelihood of Aus-
tralia depreciating to some de-
gree with her. And, of course,
a British devaluation could
spur several other European
countries and Dominions to
similar action. So much the
more difficult, then, would Aus-
tralia’s trading outlook be if she
did not follow suit.
Last week’s decision by the
E.R.P. countries to tone down
the Belgian proposals for con-
vertible currencies in Europe
has not resolved Britain’s dollar
problem. It only stopped a
grave situation from becoming
desperate. Sir Stafford Cripps’s
desire not to devalue sterling as
yet is understandable, but it is
an uphill fight. Marshall Aid
dollars are tapering off more
quickly than British dollar ex-
ports can fill the breach.
On Brisbane ’Change
Hancock and Gore ordinary
scrip doesn’t often register a
sale, but has clearly lost ground
of late. Holders who were coy
about taking 325. 6d. in
January tried in vain last week
to sell at 295, They feel wist-
ful about their £50,000.
E. Rich and Co. is offered
£75,000 by Howard Smith, Ltd.,
for assets which seem to boil
down to the freehold property
in Wharf-street; its book-value
is £40,482. If E. Rich and Co.
accepts it will have net assets
(all liquid) of about 16s. 3d. a
share, plus a wine-and-spirit
licence. This week’s meeting
should indicate if there will be
repayment of capital. Howard
Smith, incidentally, has rights
either to exercise or sell on
1-18,000 of the new B.H.P.
shares.
The weak response to City
Electric Light’s 3i p.c. deben-
ture issue contrasts with several
successful issues by similar
bodies in Victoria on less attrac-
tive terms. Moral: Melbourne
still has the money. In City
Electric’s case the leeway was
made up by a Melbourne under-
writer.


VL
J.,
czm
WH,
Established 1808 in Reign 0/
Qeorge 111,
STABILITY
The "Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle
of Waterloo, and has em-
erged from them all with
greater strength and pres-
tige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS,
8 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
F. Y. MIERS, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER, Assistant Manager
for Australia and New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT, Manager
for Australia and New Zealand.
SANDERS
d3SfeFILES
Correspondence, invoices,
statements, etc.. Gled in the
“Sanders'* can be securely
bound and converted into a
perfect book of reference at
the end of each n-onth —or
any other period.
Price* end far-
ther information
upon application
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
c. Peufold & Co Pty. Ltd,
Normau Bros Ply. Ltd.
Vnrdon & duos Ltd.
o«cftct Book C« (Ami.)
Position Vacant.
Caims Modem Panel Shop, equipped with
modern equipment, requires first-class
panel-beaters. Remuneration according to
ability. Apply P.O. Box 907, Caims.
Public Notice.
APPLICATIONS are invited for the fol-
lowing Staff positions by THE RAUB
AUSTRALIAN GOLD MINING COMPANY
LTD., Malaya:—
1. ENGINEER: An Experienced Engineer
is required to take control of the En-
gineering Section of the Company’s
undertaking. Experience in the instal-
lation, operation and maintenance of
modern mining and electrical equip-
ment is essential. Salary £l2OO
Sterling per annum and allowances.
2. ASSISTANT ENGINEER is also re-
quired. Mechanical experience is de-
sirable but experience in the installa-
tion and operation of modern mine
electrical equipment is essential.
Salary £650 Sterling per annum plus
allowances.
In addition to the salaries specified the
successful applicants will be allowed free
quarters and a cost-of-living allowance
subject to periodic revision but which is
at present £212-288 Sterling per annum.
Fares and reasonable travelling expenses
paid to the Mine. At end of contracted
period of service six months’ leave
granted on full pay with return fares.
Successful applicants must present a satis-
factory Health Certificate. Applications
with references and particulars of age
and marital state should be sent to the
Secretaries, CHAS A. CLARKE & SON,
Box No. 277 D, G.P.0., Brisbane.
■
■
- '
A .
.
.... .
L±Li:<. •
*
The essential link
Today, great aircraft link Australia and
New Zealand with the rest of the world.
Similarly, the Bank of New South Wales —-
oldest, yet most modern bank in the South-
West Pacific provides the essential financial
link facilitating trade and travel between
Australia and New Zealand and countries
overseas.
The "Wales” complete banking service is
available through a network of over 800
branches and agencies in Australia, New
Zealand, Fiji, Papua and New Guinea, linked
with two branches in London and over 7,000
oversea agents and correspondents.
Wherever you go Consult and use
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
A 4825
Assets Exceed
£2,750,000
The A.C.A.
for Security
THE A.C.A
A.C.A. POLICIES
ARE
GOOD POLICIES
AUSTRALASIAN CATHOLIC
ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(INCORPORATED IN N.S.W.)
A.C.A. Building. 66 King Street, Sydney
Call, Write or Ring. Telephone BX 2165
BRANCH OFFICES
IN ALL STATES
D. J. MOONEY
Managing Director
Cement for the North
For its proposed cement
works near Townsville the new,
strongly sponsored flotation of
North Australian Cement, Ltd.,
offers no outright estimate
of future profits, but refers to
“confidential data supplied by
the Queensland Cement and
Lime Co., Ltd.,” as the basis
for expecting “a fair return.”
It will be four or five years be-
fore the plant is in production,
and meantime shareholders are
to get bond-interest (3| p.c.) on
their capital paid-up. This will
be financed partly by sales of
lime, but may still add £25,000
or so of intangibles to the
company’s first balance-sheet.
It has been an old cry in
the north that its extensive lime
deposits should be exploited—
by the Government or some-
body—and some enthusiasts
would have the project higher up
than Townsville. The N.A.C.L.
arrangement, however, gives
’evidence of careful forethought
on the logistics side. The works
will actually be at Stuart, about
six miles in from Townsville,
right at the junction of the
north-south and the Townsville-
Mt. Isa railways. Limestone of
proved quality will come from
the Calcium quarries, about 30
miles away and handy to the
rail. Suitable clay deposits are
available at Stuart; neither coal
nor power should offer much
trouble after present extensions
by the Electricity Board; and
only the gypsum will have to
be imported (from South Aus-
tralia), From the dispatch and
marketing aspect the works not
only have a strategic rail posi-
tion but a deep-sea port at
Townsville for export to New
Guinea, the Pacific Islands or
Eastern countries.
Installation of the Stuart
works and the first year’s pro-
duction will be supervised by
Queensland Cement and Lime
Co. for a total charge of
£25,000. Together with the in-
terest on N.A.C.L. shares, this
should account for nearly all
non - tangible outlay. Fixed
assets are estimated to cost
about £526,000 —taking in the
payment of about 48s. a share
for all the scrip of Ryan Lime
Co. Pty., which owns the Cal-
cium lime deposits—and the
total estimated outlay of
£600,000 can be summarised as
follows:
Fixed assets—
Land, buildings, plant, rail
sidings £498,670
Shares of Ryan Lime Co. Pty. 27,658
£526,328
Fees to Q.C.L., interest on
N.A.C.L. shares, preliminary
exes 53,500
Working capital.. .. .. 20,172
£600,000
The Queensland Government
blesses the scheme by agreeing to
stand as guarantor to a bank
overdraft up to £200,000.
N.A.C.L.’s original issued capi-
tal is to be £500,000, of which
only £125,000 is offered for
subscription by the general pub-
lic. The largest shareholders
are to be Queensland Cement
and Lime (£120,000); Adelaide
Steamship Co. (£119,700); and
Goliath Portland Cement Co.
(£25,000). Another 48,798 shares
are reserved for Q.C.L. share-
holders and 50,500 for the
N.A.C.L. directors. These are
A. E. Axon, A. C. Elphinstone
and N. Jameson, all of Q.C.L.;
J. Kruttschnitt, chairman of
Mt. Isa Mines, and G. S.
Packard, of Adelaide Steam.
Costs and the future market
are, of course, the crucial ques-
tions. Productive capacity at
Stuart will be 60,000 tons yearly,
but starting in 1954-55 at the rate
of 30,000 tons. The N.A.C.L.
capital of £500,000 and plant
expenditure of £526,328 make
interesting comparison with
Q.C.L., which is turning out
150.000 tons of cement yearly at
Darra. The Q.C.L. fixed assets
figured at £691,465 last year
(after big extensions), and this
co.’s capital is only £245,061 —
on which net profits over the
past decade have averaged 9.7
per cent.
According to Queensland’s
Director of- Secondary Indus-
tries the “estimated future de-
mand for cement in Queensland
does not exceed the [present]
Queensland output by more than
about 36,000 tons per annum.”
Now, besides the N.A.C.L.
capacity for an extra 60,000
tons, Q.C.L. is expanding its
own works to turn out a further
50.000 tons. Calculations are
evidently based on substantial
sales outside the State.
Q.C.L. undertakes not to
compete with its new godchild
in territory north of the 22nd
parallel (below Mackay) for a
period of 15 years. This only
applies so long as N.A.C.L.
production is below 36,000 tons
—while it is not producing more
than the northern latitudes can
consume. Present sales are
about 23,000 tons a year in
N.A.C.L.’s protected area, and
there will be substantial new
demands for the Burdekin dam,
the Tully Falls hydroelectric
scheme and extensions at Mt.
Isa.
A question arises, incidentally,
as to when Q.C.L. will approach
its shareholders for more capi-
tal. There were no idle funds
at last balancing-date to meet
either the £120,000 investment
in N.A.C.L. or the expansion at
Darra.
and for N.Z.
Spurred on by N.Z.’s desperate
cement need—which is today’s
No. 1 bottleneck in the Do-
minion, more worrying than steel
—and by the M.L. Government’s
threat to step in and build a State
cement-works if private enter-
prise doesn’t get busy, three lead-
ing cos. plan to spend £l \
million on new plant, equipment
and premises. The cos. are:
Wilsons (N.Z.) Portland Cement,
Ltd., Auckland, which has taken
its courage in both hands and
embarked on a three-year
scheme to cost £750,000 ; Gol-
den Bay Cement Co., Ltd. (Wel-
lington), a subsid. of British
Standard Portland Cement, Ltd.,
and the Milburn Lime and
Cement Co., Ltd., Dunedin,
Wilsons’ output will be lifted
100,000 tons to 260,000 tons
yearly, and the other two cos.
between them have set a goal
of 200,000 tons, against 120,000
tons now. So the trio should be
in a position to turn out 450,000
tons annually when expansion is
complete, late in ’52, if there’s
enough coal and power to
operate at capacity. Meanwhile,
builders and engineers, farmers
and backyard users are likely to
be scratching for cement most
of the time. Wilsons’ outlay is
treble that for a more modest
scheme planned a couple of
years ago and scrapped. George
Winstone, chairman of this co.,
told shareholders at the annual
meeting that the Government
agreed that those who sank new
capital in the industry were en-
titled to a reasonable return.
For finance, Wilsons will
mobilise invested funds, now
£226,800, and when these run
out —perhaps some time in 1951
—there might be a call for more
capital.


oFr*fi/A/6’/A/
ors/E's?
A/O
COLOURS
5
72 €OlO
9
0
i
No other colour
pencil equals the
“Derwent” for the
superfine quality of both
lead and wood, the purity and
brilliance of the primary colours
and the delicacy of the pastel tints.
In all 72 accurately repeated colours,
no refinement has been spared to obtain
the highest degree of light fastness and
general permanence. The colours mix and blend
well in both wet and dry applications ; effects
similar to water colour and tempera may be obtained by
applying solvents such as Dekalin. Unquestionably, the
“Derwent” will measure up to your most exacting demands.
If unobtainable from your stationer, kindly contact your nearest agent.
Supplied in neat attrac-
tive stand cases in the
complete range of 72,
or in 36, 24, and 12
assorted colours. Also
boxes of 12 separate
colours.
PWiliM®
( PENCIL COMPANY LIMITED^)
Representatives in Australia
Vic., S. Aust. and Tas.: HUBERT JOHNSON PTY. LTD., 324-330 Flinders St.
MELBOURNE C.l. N.S.W. and Queensland : WYNYARD TRADING CO.,
Kembla Bldg.. Margaret St., SYDNEY. W. Aust.: CHAS. A. DONALD
Economic Chambers, William St., PERTH.
ADVERT OF BRITISH PENS LTD., BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND.
HHBIS
H
.
s>;m ■#*. ■
iO
Q
'/
s-
-9*<V
tup nn n nii
1 Ilia ISllflllAf
tfmtm
3.1
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co, Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
62 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
EAWIMM
Swiss
Masterpieces
Seventeen-
Jewelled
%
0 0
m e
op
£M¥im
Watches
Founded in 1852
VILLERET, SUISSE
LW.I
SMOKERS
PIPE TOBACCOS THAT ARE
BLENDED TO GIVE
SATISFACTION TO ALL.
HOUSE OF MURPHY. A blend of
the highest grade of leaf to give a
cool smoke of satisfaction that men
prefer. 22/- per lb. Posted.
A.AAl. HIIXTOP. A blend of
Australian, American and African.
20/- per lb. Posted.
WINSTON READY RUBBED
CIGARETTE TOBACCO. Greatly
improved by better blending of
mature leaf. 24/- per lb. Posted.
Special Quotes to Retailers lor lots 20lb.
weight or over.
Write to: Cash Order Dept.,
Hillman Trading Co.,
Commercial Road, Brisbane.
Postage paid on Cash with order •
Postage extra on C*OoDm Orders •
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
HONG KONG DOUBTS.
London “Times’s” Hong
Kong correspondent is yet
another to report the prevailing
belief that “it is in the highest
degree unlikely that the Com-
munists will launch a formal
frontal assault across the Hong
Kong-China border, however
confident and strong they may
feel when they occupy all south
China.”
Reason: “Such a course
would involve them in a major
foreign entanglement—conceiv-
ably even precipitating a third
world war ”,
The likelihood of internal
disturbances is, however, re-
ported as quite another matter:
“These are regarded as being
almost certain to occur, whether
they are deliberately fomented
from outside the colony or not.”
Plans have been drawn up to
meet such disturbances. But “it
is obvious that such occurrences
as strikes, boycotts, riots and so
forth are not easy to deal with in
the densely-crowded areas of
Hong Kong and Kowloon,
where live the majority of the
colony’s 1,175,000 inhabitants.
Very few of these inhabitants
have any allegiance to Hong
Kong: their interests, ambitions
and ideas are centred on China,
and Hong Kong has merely
been a convenient place to live
in, where law and order gave
scope for trade and business,”
In other words, the bulk of
them would either give no help
to Britain or would be active
fifth-columnists on the other
side.
To avert the third-world-war
developments which are being
freely mentioned, Western diplo-
mats connected with the Foreign
Ministers’ Conference in Paris
were reported by a corres-
pondent there of N. Y. “Times”
as advocating an early declara-
tion by Britain and the U.S. of
“their common interests in
Asia” and their agreement to
move together:
“It is thought that this would
be especially valuable if it were
formulated before the Com-
munist wave approaches the
British colony of Hong Kong,
in order to discourage any direct
attack by enthusiastic militants
—which might provoke a sud-
den international crisis.”
The quoted diplomats were re-
ported as stating that there was
disagreement between Roose-
velt and Churchill on Hong
Kong at Cairo in 1943. They
hold that “it might be wise to
announce to the world that such
differences no longer prevail.”
The decidedly ominous note
in practically all these reports is
the fear that Hong Kong could
very easily be the detonator of
another world-war explosion.
U.S. Pact Commitment.
Generally recognised as prob-
ably the soundest of all Ameri-
can political writers, N. Y.
“Times” Washington corres-
pondent Arthur Krock has
drawn special attention to two
points on the Atlantic Pact
made by Senator Vandenberg,
who is himself no isolationist:
1. The text and spirit of the
North Atlantic Pact contain
United States pledges of “poten-
tial force” to be applied against
aggressors, the United States to
determine when, how and in
what quantity if the occasion
arises.
2. Neither text nor spirit ex-
tends to Western Europe any
“absolute guarantees of safety
from invasion” or a “Maginot
Line,” maintained by the United
States, on the Elbe or at any
other fixed point in Europe.
Krock comments that “it
should be obvious to anyone”
that the U.S, Senate would not
approve a pact which it thought
could be construed by anyone
to hold such guarantees: “And
by ‘anyone’ the Senate would
mean the President as well as
the co-signatories.”
On the related issue of the
U.S. sending forces to be ready
in Western Europe, Krock’s
comment was: “It is unlikely
that statesmen of the projected
allied countries believe that the
United States, after ratification
of the treaty and the arms ap-
propriation bill, will undertake
to transfer to those countries
military force adequate to pro-
tect them against invasion at
any time and in any circum-
stances. These statesmen are
practical and able men, who
realise that politically and eco-
nomically this transfer is impos-
sible.”
However, “it certainly is not
necessary to convince the heads
of the Western European States
and their Foreign Ministers that
the ‘implied potential force’ in
the treaty is a very great pro-
tection for them indeed.”
The same writer has given the
following interesting outline of
probable developments if war
were coming up:
In all likelihood, because of
the speed of modern communi-
cations and the spread of intel-
ligence units, all the treaty sig-
natories would be informed
some time in advance of moves
by another nation toward
aggression.
On that information they
would ‘instantly consult through
those modern communications.
If, in the judgment of the
President of the United States,
the situation called for military
mobilisation and dispatch of
forces, he would and could
order both without prior resort
to Congress, were that body in
recess ; and in the circumstances
he could and would get informal
and then formal approval of the
steps he proposed to take to
execute the obligations of the
treaty in the interest of national
safety.
“Since this prospect of
prompt American military aid '
never existed for Europe be-
fore,” Krock concludes, “it is
not blacked out by admissions
that it extends no further.”
U.S. Aid to China.
Against any notion that Uncle
Sam’s aid to the anti-Com. side
in China was all along half-
hearted, “Christian Science
Monitor” Washington correspon-
dent Neal Stanford quotes the


“A Roving Commission"
32 page condensation from the book by
Winston Churchill.
Here is Winston Churchill’s story of his childhood, youth and
young manhood ... a fascinating narrative of adventure in
days when war was almost a lighthearted lark. But Churchill’s
book is more than that. It sparkles with flashing revelations
of the mind and character of the man to whom Great Britain
turned in her darkest hour. Men of Churchill’s calibre are born
only once in a hundred years and A Roving Commission gives
you a new perspective of a great man. Don’t miss this book
condensation in July Reader’s Digest.
Also in July Reader’s Digest
Who is this mysterious murderer
who killed Leon Trotsky? Why
has no one identified him
though papers the world over
carried his picture? Who sent
him on his mission? Puzzling
story of how a man (still In a
Mexican prison) carried out
the devilish plot to kill the
person Stalin hated most.
Evolution of Eleanor. Asked in a
magazine questionnaire which
living American they admired
most, women gave Mrs. Eleanor
Roosevelt first place over Presi-
dent Truman, General Eisen-
hower and General Marshall.
Through her dally newspaper
column "My Day", her magazine
features, her broadcasts, her
books and her many lectures
and Interviews she Is probably
seen and heard more often In
more ways than any other per-
son in American public life.
M. Jolivet Gets His Tractor.
What Is the Marshall Plan?
Millions In the world today
have only a hazy idea of what
it is . . . how it works. Here
is a lucid example of how the
Marshall Plan pumps lifeblood
into the European economic
system of how It is helping
the peoples of Europe to work
out their own salvation ... to
stabilise each country’s finances.
There is no average boy. There’s
no "correct” weight, height, or
grade level for any age ... no
average age at which boys
should take responsibility, drive
cars, stay out late, or shave.
An expert on adolescents shows
why parents worry too much
about “differences” . . . what
they can do to help kids grow
up.
Everyone has something to
trade. Have you spare time,
some kind of talent, experience?
With Ingenuity you can trade
them for things you want but
can't afford. Here a mother
tells how she bartered for hos-
pitalization, her child’s nursery
school, Jewellery . . . gives tips
on how you can get things you
want without money.
Norway's jolly good King. He
refused to become King till the
people elected him. Never
guarded, you may find him
beside you on the trolley. So
democratic, the royal family
hires servants simply through
the Help Wanted column!
Delightful story of beloved, 76-
year-old King Haakon.
In this issue more than
30 articles of lasting in-
terest , selected from lead-
ing magazines and current
book?, and condensed to
save your time.
READ AND ENJOY JULY
Readers Digest
ONE SHILLING. Ail Newsagents and Bookstalls
official U.S. recapitulation of
assistance rendered and what
good it was in the hands of
Chiang and Co,:
$1,500,000,000 in aid provided
China during the war.
$2,000,000,000 in aid provided
after VJ-Day—half military and
half economic.
$1,000,000,000 in surplus war
equipment transferred to China
—at original-cost estimates.
The evacuation from China
of some 3,000,000 Japanese—
one of the biggest mass move-
ments of people on record.
The transport by air of four
Chinese armies to Manchuria.
The training and equipping of
39 Chinese divisions.
The providing of a small navy
to China.
As to what Chiang and Co.
did with that aid and equipment:
It lost 90 per cent, of the
equipment furnished by the
United States.
More than 1,000,000 soldiers
have surrendered or deserted to
the Chinese Communists.
As Generalissimo, Chiang
Kai-shek ignored every bit of
American military advice, so
that Gen. George C. Marshall
was forced on one occasion to
warn him that he was without
question the worst-advised mili-
tary leader in history.
“The result has been a military
disaster, with Chinese Commu-
nists now able to take over all
of China but for the insuperable
administrative task involved.”
Hence the U.S. decision to
clear out and let formulation of
a new policy wait until “the
present debacle stabilises.”
Spain Reconsidered.
Views of the two outstanding
newspapers on the Western side
—N. Y. “Times” and London
“Times” —can be quoted among
the more significant signs of the
changing attitude towards Spain
recently noted here.
The diplomatic ostracising of
that strategically placed coun-
try continues despite a majority
vote in U.N.O. in favor of dis-
carding that particular U.N.O.
futility. The needed two-thirds
majority failed because of
“abstentions” in the voting;
but, making the futility com-
pletely ridiculous, at least 11
member States of U.N.O. have
already sent “chiefs of mission”
to Madrid or have announced
plans to do so.
About all the U.N.O. chatter
produced, in the editorial view
of N. Y. “Times,” was a
further demonstration of “how
valuable an asset Franco is, as
a debating point, for the Com-
munist bloc in U.N.0.”:
“They denounce his Govern-
ment as anti-democratic and as
a creature of Fascism —both of
which things undoubtedly it is ;
and in so doing they blur the
record of the thousands of tons
of petroleum and manganese
and grain that Communist Russia
delivered to ftitler Germany,
under the Ribbentrop-Molotov
pact, when Hitler made war on
democracy and Britain stood
alone.
“They run the gamut of criti-
cism of Franco’s suppression of
civil liberties, his Press censor-
ship and his concentration
camps; and they manage
thereby to convey, at least to
some innocents, the impression
that they, who outmatch him in
all these things, are in fact the
defenders of a democratic tradi-
tion.
“They dwell upon the con-
gratulations which they accuse
Franco of sending to Japan at
the time of its attack upon
Pearl Harbor; and they thereby
thrust further into the back-
ground of popular memory ‘the
warmest congratulations of the
Soviet Government on the
splendid success of the German
Armed Forces’ which Molotov
sent to the German Ambassa-
dor in Moscow when the Ger-
man armies entered Paris.
“To the Soviet-Communist
bloc,” concludes the N. Y.
“Times” comment, “Franco is
worth his weight in at least a
semi - precious metal. They
would have a hard time getting
along without him.”
In a number of editorials
over the past month or so Lon-
don “Times’.’ has supported dis-
carding the U.N.C). ostracism.
It said of Britain’s stand on the
last vote that “abstention in im-
portant votes is becoming some-
thing of a habit of the British
Government at the United
Nations, and it is a habit un-
worthy of a great Power.”
London “Times” has also
editorially stated; “It would, of
course, be more satisfactory if
Spain were to become a Parlia-
mentary democracy, just as it
would be more satisfactory if
Russia and her satellites were to
become Parliamentary democra-
cies, but neither of these things
—Chicago “Tribune."
THE BASHFUL SUITOR.
is likely to happen for some
time, if at a 11.... There is no
reason why the Western Powers
should not place their relations
with Spain on a normal foot-
ing General Franco’s regime
shows few signs of permanence
or immutability. It has changed
a good deal in the past 10 years,
and is changing now. It is
likely to change still more in the
next few years whether or not
General Franco himself re-
mains at the head of the State.
It is not too optimistic to sup-
pose that the development of
Spain may be influenced for
good or ill by the attitude of
the Western Powers during this
period. Continued ostracism is
more likely to exaggerate the
fierce nationalism and isolation-
ism which are always inherent
in the Spanish character than to
encourage a more co-operative
and European outlook. A
chance has been foolishly lost
at the United Nations, but there
is still a strong case for seek-
ing better relations with Spain
in a moderate and expedient
way.”
Stalin’s Successor.
Having a shot at separating
“fact from fancy about Stalin’s
health and successor,” “U.S.
News and World Report” refers
to the “rumor that Stalin has
had four strokes within the last
year, and that the last stroke
almost finished him.”
What’s known for sure, it
says, is that Stalin has had a
hard life, is not in the best of
health and takes long vacations
rather frequently.
As to his successor, of the 15
men who run the Communist
party in Russia only two —
Stalin and Gedrgi Malenkov—
hold places in both of Russia’s
two most powerful agencies,
the Secretariat and the Polit-
buro :
“Molotov, in the Politburo,
can help shape Soviet policy,
but has no voice in the Secre-
tariat, which controls party and
State machinery. It was through
the Secretariat that Stalin came
to power. Guessing, therefore,
is that Malenkov, not Molotov,
is to succeed Stalin,”
The U.S. publication admits,
however, that actually it’s very
doubtful whether anyone even
in Russia, except perhaps Stalin
himself, knows who is to suc-
ceed him, and Stalin can’t be
sure of it:
“There is no fixed way of
picking the boss in Soviet
Russia, no sure way for either
Malenkov or Molotov to get
Stalin’s job. Stalin pretty much
picked himself when Lenin died.
Whether Stalin can pick his own
successor is questionable. Pre-
sumably his 14 top associates
all want the job, may all be
conniving to get it.”
The Forrestal Case.
Referring in N. Y. “Sun” to
former U.S. Defence Secretary
James Forrestal’s suicide, David
Lawrence has suggested that re-
forms should emerge as a sequel
including;
The enactment of a law
forbidding individuals or organi-
sations of any kind, including
corporations, to make contribu-
tions to the campaign funds ex-
pended to elect a President, or
Vice-President of the United
States.
Walter Lippmann, in N. Y.
“Herald Tribune,” had reported
conversations he had had with
Forrestal, which left no doubt
that Forrestal was bitterly dis-
appointed and depressed by his
having been forced out of office.
The reason Forrestal was
forced out was given by Law-
rence, who described him as
“one of the finest public-ser-
vants an American Government
has ever had.” He emphasised
the disappointment Forrestal
felt that he “should have been
the victim of political intrigue
and attacked by persons inside
the Truman Administration after
the November election because
he did not contribute financially
to the Truman campaign.”
Lawrence quoted as an iden-
tical case U.S. Ambassador
Lewis Douglas, having been the
probable successor to General
Marshall as Secretary of State,
but being knocked back when
Mr. Truman was shown a letter
written by Douglas explaining
why he, too, hadn’t contributed
to the election funds.
Record Bridge.
Approval having lately been
given, the entrance to New
York’s Upper Bay (known as
the Narrows) will one day have
a bridge with the longest sus-
pension span in the world:
4620 ft. It’s to cost $78,000,0(10 ;
or so they think now.
An interesting note on who
gives approval appears in N. Y.
“Times”;
“Under United States law
every bridge across a navigable
waterway has to be approved in
advance by the Army engineers,
who have supervision over the
nation’s rivers and harbors.”
And maybe just as interesting
is the reason why the Army now
gives approval, having steadily
refused it since 1926 on the
grounds hitherto that destruc-
tion of the bridge by enemy
bombing might completely
block the harbor. Here’s what
the U.S. Army says now:
“It has been decided that the
probability of the channel’s
being blocked for a long time
is remote enough to be out-
weighed by the bridge’s advan-
tages.”
Dragnet Digest
The Levellers. —“Sir,” said Dr.
Johnson, “your levellers wish to level
down as far as themselves: but they
cannot bear levelling up ” A
London “Times” China correspondent
has given the just about perfect
example of the Com. mentality in
that respect: Where the Corns had
taken over the first thing that was
done when the trains started running
again was to institute a single class.
They did it by heaving the cushioned
seats out of the former first- and
second-class carriages.
* * * *
U.S. Population. —ln advance of
the census to be taken next year, the
American Census Bureau puts the
present U.S. population at 148,527,000,
and the bureau’s estimates have never
been far off the mark. Almost
1,000,000 of the total are shown as
being in the U.S. armed services
overseas.
* * * *
Churchill Bags a Brace. —The
general-election season in Britain
having been declared open about a
year early, Mr. Churchill obliges with
both barrels, one at Cripps, t’other
Shinwell: “It is pathetic to wit-
ness the prostitution of a fine intellect
to the desire to retain office and
power. The most charitable explana-
tion I can suggest is that Sir Stafford
Cripps has a mental blackout every
quarter. If this is so, he is at least
more fortunate than his colleague, Mr.
Shinwell, whose case is the reverse,
and shows only periodical interludes
of rational illumination.”
* * ♦ *
The China Line. —Perhaps on better
ground than the political gas on
which the “Brisbane line” was fab-
ricated, a correspondent of N. Y.
“Herald Tribune” reports a decision
to draw a th us-far-no-farther line
across the Chinese Corns’ advance.
Recalling U.S. General Chennault’s
contention that the loss of China
directly threatens all of South-east
Asia and “if Indo-China, Siam,
Malaya, Burma and Indonesia should
all be permitted to go the way of
China, then both Japan and India
would also be directly threatened,”
the correspondent states that the
places to watch are “Indo-China,
which is the political key to South-
east Asia, and Formosa, which is
the strategic key to the U.S. island
Pacific defence line of Japan-
Okinawa-Philippines.”
*. * ♦ *
Atomic Progress. —A “Christian
Science Monitor” Washington corres-
pondent has noted that as great gains
in atomic development have been
made since the war as were made
during the war. “The jump ahead
during the past four years has been
as decisive as what was accomplished
even under the pressures of the war
from 1941 to 1945.”
* * * *
France Back to Normal. —
Though the present French Govern-
ment has perhaps lasted a bit too
long, there are other signs that
France is right back to normal,
among them the recent criminal-court
action of quashing the conviction of
a poet who had been fined for an
offence against public morals in pub-
lishing a book, six poems from which
had been ordered to bp suppressed.
The poet’s name, Charles Baudelaire;
time of conviction, 92 years ago.
* * * *
Windfall for Ciano’s Widow. —
Royalties on American publications
of the Ciano diaries were ordered to
be kept in a blocked account, it being
“against the law for any American
to deal with an Italian enemy
national,” though the publishings
were made with U.S. State Depart-
ment encouragement. Now, reports
N. Y. “Post,” the royalties, by
mutual consent of the U.S.-Italian
Governments, are being handed over
to Edda; a nice windfall of approach-
ing $50,000.
* * * *
The B-36. —Official description of
“the newest American longe-range
bombers, now in large-scale produc-
tion” (the U.S. Air Force has can-
celled $100,000,000 in contracts for
other types of planes in favor of
more B-365): “Wingspread, 230 ft.;
length, 163 ft.; gross weight,
278,0001 b.; maximum speed, over
350 miles per hour; service ceiling,
over 40,000 ft.; design range, 10,000
miles with a 10,0001 b. bomb-load;
armed with 16 20mm. cannon and
operated by crew of fifteen; powered
by six ‘pusher’ engines of 3000 and
3500h.p. each [newest ones equipped
with four jet pods]; built by Con-
solidated Vultee Arcraft Corp.”
* * * *
Placing the Displaced. —A Scripps-
Howard report states that, since the
formation of the International
Refugee Organisation, Israel has led
the field, taking more than 93,000.
Britain second, 81,578 (but Britain
had admitted 160,000 members of
Gen. Anders’s Polish army and
30,000 of their dependants before
1.R.0. started functioning in 1947).
Other admissions (apparently up to
May): U.S., 50,000; Canada, 53,000;
France, 26,000; Argentina, 26,000;
Australia, 24,000. Australia is noted
as “now beginning to step up admis-
sions.”
* * * *
U.S. Air-strength in Britain. —Now
8000-strong, the U.S. Air Force per-
sonnel in Britain is being built up to
a strength of 12,000. As well, the
strength includes an unstated number
of British civilians, being used
“wherever possible,” and making up
a big establishment. “Never before
in history,” U.S. commander Maj.-
Gen. Johnson comments, “has one
first-class Power gone into another
first-class Power’s country without any
agreement. We were just told to
come over and'. ‘We shall be pleased
to have you.’ ”
* * * *
Negro Dr. Bunche. —When U.N.O,
Palestine mediator Dr. Bunche de-
clined an offer by President Truman
of appointment as Assistant Sec-
retary of State, N, Y. “Herald
Tribune” stated that the post was
“the highest ever offered to a Negro”
(they always spell it with the capital
in the U.S.), and attributed his de-
clining to financial reasons; $lO,OOO
a year, with taxes to pay, in the
secretary job, against the U.N.O.
screw of .$ll,OOO a year, plus $3OOO
allowance, and no taxes. The same
paper now states, however, that
“racial segregation” had much to do
with it; quoting, among other in-
stances to the point, Washington’s
largest hotel having returned, because
of its “no-Negro policy,” the $3O
sent to pay Dr. Bundle’s share of a
dinner arranged by the Middle East
Institute, which had invited him as
its guest-speaker.


mum jo 3nim jhi
SINCE 1847
QtXanck)
100 YEABS finite
PERSONAL ITEMS
Known to all who’ve ever cocked a
practice-range eye over a .303 sight as
the father of rifle-shooting. General
George Dean passed his 90th milestone
in Adelaide last week. The general has
been mother and father to the sport since
he formed the South Australian Rifle
Association in 1877, now grown into an
Australia-wide body. Commissioned in
the S.A. Mounted Rifles in 1880, he took
the 1913 Australian team to Bisley (it
won the Mackinnon Cup and just missed
the Kolapore Cup), and got in softie live
practice at Jacko with the 13th L.H. on
Gallipoli. A bout of enteric brought him
out of that, and after service in sea-
transport for the last two years of that
war, he retired in 1920. The King recog-
nised his service to rifling with C.B.E. in
1932; local marksmen by naming the
Port Adelaide range after him last year.
All Australian Bisley teams since 1914
have revered his drive in establishing the
Australian Hut for their accommodation
near the range.
The light of Australianism has not been
completely doused in the blighting
savagery of the coalfields’ war on the
rest of us. There’s plenty of it in the
dial of Sid Trewick, chairman of the
Queensland Coal Owners’ Association,
whose Normanton pit-workers at Rose-
wood, outside Ipswich, listened to strike-
agitators, told them to take their Red-
ragging to blazes and walked with their
picks back into the mine. Trewick man-
ages and owns, with two mates of his
own calibre, the Normanton shaft, and
himself cuts 30 tons a day for Brisbane
hospitals. He owns as well muscles
like a poppet-head hawser, a jaw like a
kauri stump and will to match.
Moonee Valley Racing Club has had a
rapid turnover of chairmen —C. F. Taylor
is the third in six months. Succeeding
J. F. Feehan, who died recently, Taylor,
a club committeeman for 14 years, with
J. McLeod raced Doncaster, winner of
a shelf of trophies, and Sandhurst, who
collected the Grand National (to be again
jumped on Saturday), in 1929. He raced
also that smart galloper High Title
(Oakleigh Plate winner) and at present
owns the two-year-old filly Bright Sea.
“Ray Whiting”: Enemy shells began to
scream and crash around that hole in the
Alamein sandhills which was tactical
h.q., and nearly everyone dived for non-
existent cover. One sapper, cocking an
eye to see where the last one had landed,
spotted “Old Bob,” the C.R.E., strolling
undisturbed towards h.q. entrance. “Run,
you silly old blankard!” he yelled, and
ducked. The C.R.E. stalked over to where
the sapper lay curled up in a sand-scratch
and observed; “Son, I may be silly and
I may be old —but I’m no blankard!”
Then he moved on leisurely to the h.q.
doover. No sooner had he got inside than
a shell slammed clean through the open-
ing. His driver. Lofty, streaked into the
smoking chaos to sort out his badly-
wounded boss, and I reckon no Ninth
Division sapper will be more pleased
than he to learn (B. 29/6/’49) that “not-
so-old Bob” Risson has landed the job
of Melbourne’s tramways chief.
“Trinco”: Among the politically slain in the
Belgian elections, Paul Henri Spaak became a
world figure when he was elected U.N.O.’s first
president. In his own country he had been
in the political spotlight since, as a young
socialite imbued with Marxian ideas, he led a
mob through Brussels to smash the windows of
a Rightist newspaper. Son of a poet opera-
director, he was by profession a Barrister —
he defended De Rost, who shot the Prince of
Piedmont in Brussels—and was elected to Par-
liament in 1932. Four years later the Govern-
ment, to draw his troublesome teeth, invited
him to join it; the next year, at 38, he was
Belgium’s youngest politician to reach the
Cabinet. In the same year he became Foreign
Minister, in the next accepted the Prime
Ministership and formed a Cabinet which lasted’
about a year. When World War II broke he
was again Foreign Minister, and after Belgium’s
fall in 1940 escaped through Spain to London
to join the “Govemment-in-exile.” He returned
home to the leadership of his country and of
the movement to prevent the return of King
Leopold, on whose reinstating the recent elec-
tions were mainly fought. Spaak is now 50,
still an expert tennis player—he was in
Belgium’s international team in 1922 —and the
new Government will no doubt find the teeth
in his round, fat face just as troublesome as
did its predecessor.
Another Australian to garner his
measure of honor outside his own
country. Professor William Hancock, who
since 1941, when the British home front
was gearing up for its incomparable
stand, has been editing the official history
of that effort. Ably fitted for the job,
Hancock is Oxford’s Chichele Professor
of Economic History. He left Victoria
as Rhodes Scholar in 1922; at 26,
Adelaide University offered him its Chair
of Modern History, and after warming
it for nine years he moved to a similar
seat in Birmingham, where he was when
appointed supervisor of civil histories.
First products of the seven-years’ job
have been received very favorably by the
London Press.
R. A. Blackburn, whose 1940 S. Aus-
tralian Rhodes Scholarship was suspended
for six years by Adolf Hitler, went on to
Oxford after suspension of the suspender
to such good effect that he has been
elected an Eldon Law Scholar, among the
first batch to be so rewarded since the
war. As well, he held last year’s presi-
dency of Magdalen College, a rare dis-
tinction for a “colonial.” He’s a son of
Arthur Blackburn, V.C.
Climbed his last mountain, Englishman
Francis Smythe, the remarkable adven-
turer who, in between establishing him-
self as a world figure in mountaineering,
found time to be a British Army colonel,
an electrical engineer, an R.A.F. pilot and
author of over a score of sensitively-
written books on his experiences. Any-
thing over about 15,000 ft. was a chal-
lenge: he took it up on Kangchenjunga,
Mt. Kamet and the central Himalayas (he
tackled Everest three times), and two years
ago his address was somewhere near the
top of the Canadian Rockies. An un-
known disease contracted while climbing
killed him when a still-virile 48.
Melburnian Alfred Daff, revisiting Aus-
tralia, has gone far, both in career and
distance, since he joined Universal Films’
Victdrian office in 1920. He is now Uni-
versal’s vice-president, with h.q, in New
York; before the war he was managing-
director in Japan. He has toured the
world 11 times inspecting branches.
At any show run by Concerts and
Artists —N.Z.- basso Oscar Natzka is their
current attraction —a slim, alert, dapper,
white-haired figure of medium height
may be seen moving from artist’s room
to front of the house smartly oiling the
managerial works: that will be Frederic
McCallum, entrepreneur, caught stationary
here by Heth. Ever since he appeared
in Ibsen’s “Doll’s House” at four-years-
old, McCallum, an Enzedder, has been
associated with theatre and concert-
platform. From acting he graduated to
producing; he built-up the Auckland
Little Theatre into the largest repertory
society in the Empire, with 2500 active
FREDERIC McCALLUM, entrepreneur.
members. In the Army he came up the
hard way; then, after the evacuation of
Crete, took command of the Kiwi Concert
Party and reorganised it. After Alamein
he handed over that remarkably suc-
cessful organisation to its present pro-
ducer, Terry Vaughan, McCallum having
been seconded for the job of securing the
personal safety of Winston Churchill,
President Inonu of Turkey and Chiang
Kai-shek at conferences they attended.
That assignment completed, he moved
with the Army into Italy for counter-
espionage work with British Intelligence.
The jaw quarried here by Lambart is
explained by the initials its owner,
Queenslander Harry Dalziel, wears after
his name —V.C. A fireman on the Cairns-
Atherton railway before the Kaiser
marched, he exchanged his shovel for a
gun and with it wiped out the entire
gun-crew of a German strongpoint at
Pear Trench, in Hamel Wood, France, in
1918, collecting in return over 30 wounds.
King George. V pinned the gong in
Buckingham Palace; Dalziel, staunch
for the Empire, recently airmailed his
“For Valor” decoration back there, ask-
ing that it be accepted by Princess Eliza-
HARRY DALZIEL, VC.
beth for her child as the Old Digger’s
tribute to those whom he calls the
“heroes of the Battle for Britain”—those
civilians against whom the air-raiding was
directed. Now 56, and a pensioner,
Dalziel spare-times with song lyrics (some
have been published) and sketching, while
admitting that Irving Berlin and Ted
Scorfield have nothing to worry about
yet.
In Melbourne to clinch purchase of
shares in the “Argus” and “Australasian,”
H. G. Bartholomew, chairman of directors
of London “Daily Mirror,” and his poli-
tical editor, Sydney Elliott. Bartholomew
hopes to acquire a financial interest in
other Australian papers, but stated his
co. had no desire for a controlling interest
in any; shortly after this announcement
controlling interest developed at the Mel-
bourne address, with a transfer of shares
totalling 324,500, the purchase price being
upwards of half a million. There will be
a new directorate of the Melbourne
Thunderer, including J. D. Patience, of
a Sydney legal firm, and Sydney Elliott,
while Errol Knox, present managing-
director, will share that office with Elliott,
who was sometime managing-director of
“Reynolds’ News,” and editor of the
“Evening Standard,” and is a director of
the “Sunday Pictorial.” London “Mirror”
has a circulation of 4,000,000, is a tabloid
which specialises in spicy news stories
and was, like the “Argus,” originally a
Conservative sheet, but switched over-
night to Labor.
“Standby”: Captain Harold Stead,
master of the holed Maoriland freighter
Melva (B. 29/6/’49), now in Mackay
(Q.), knows more things than were ever
on the Admiralty charts. Joining the
Conway as a cadet at 13, he was licking
deep-sea salt two years later in a full-
rigged ship, and in 1910 passed for extra
master in sail. Transhipping to steam
when the Kaiser broke loose, he joined
the R.N.R, and was wounded in a ship
landing troops at Gallipoli. After that
war he shipped to Maoriland, and, in
coasters and island shipping, got to know
the South Seas as well as his own com-
pass. When the Japs came in he was at
Tarawa, in command of a Colonial Office
schooner. The Nips captured him and
blew up his ship; they were careless
enough to leave a 20ft. open boat in
some sort of trim. Stead and two mates
repaired her and conned her to the Gil-
berts, where the other two, preferring
capture to drowning, went ashore. But
the old shellback, although a Jap guard
had almost crippled him by bashing his
wounded hip with a rifle-butt, shipped
a half-caste lad and shoved off to
Nanouti Islands. Here the Suva light-
vessel picked them up, just about all in.
Within two months Stead was back in
the Navy looking for more, and with his
rank stepped up to commander.
As much a soldier-at-large as a Sydney
barrister, William John Windeyer, now
K.C., got his commission with the Militia
in 1922, his lieutenant-colonelcy in 1937
and with it command of Sydney Univer-
sity’s regiment. From there he jumped into
active service in command of the 2/48
Infantry Battalion, withstood the Tobruk
siege, and, promoted brigadier in January,
1942, assumed command the same month
of the 20th Australian Brigade. He took
this much - blooded team through
Alamein, led it ashore on the aptly-named
Scarlet Beach to capture Finschhafen in
1943, and, two years of tough fighting
later, landed with it in Borneo. The
cease-fire found him, with D.S.O. and
Bar, C.B.E. and three “mentions,” ad-
ministering command of the hard-fought
Ninth Division. Now, after five years
of active effort directed at reducing the
life-expectancy of his country’s enemies,
one of his out-of-court connections is
with a Sydney life-assurance company.
When “Annie Get Your Gun” finishes
its marathon run at Sydney Royal some-
time in September Robert Morley is due
to move in with “Edward My Son.”
Morley, whom film audiences should re-
member particularly for his perform-
ances in “Marie Antoinette” and “Major
Barbara,” is bringing Ellis Irving and
Sophie Stewart to Australia with him.
Irving, born in Sydney in 1902, was meant
for the law, but took to the stage and
made his first appearance on it at the
Royal in Hobart when he played the
messenger in “Macbeth” with the Allan
Wilkie company. He played with Wilkie
for four years, and subsequently toured
Australia before going to England, where
he made his first London appearance as
Archie Forsyth in “Marigold” at the
Kingsway. He toured America and
Canada in that part, and has since
appeared in a long string of plays and
films in England and America. Sophie
Stewart, his wife, toured in the title role of
“Marigold” in 1927 and played the port
nearly 1000 times in England, America
and Canada. She, too, has piled up a list
of plays and films on both sides of the
Atlantic.
Sydney Neville de Vries, Sydney Con-
servatorium’s singing-coach, who has
passed on at 52, based his teaching on his
own wide experience. An operatic bari-
tone, born in Amsterdam and educated
at Cambridge and the London Guildhall
School of Music, he baritoned after
World War I through Europe for 11
years, from Drury Lane to the Berlin
State Opera, Dresden and Vienna. Aus-
tralian audiences first heard him in 1934,
when he passed through on an extensive
tour including Java, China, Japan and
America. In the last-named country he
sang soloist with the New York Phil-
harmonic and Philadelphia • Symphony
Orchestras. His approach to his job was
epitomised in his published views on the
subject, Commonsense in Singing.
Into the Silence:
At Heidelberg (Vic.) Military Hospital, Bruce
Cameron, youngest son of the Postmaster-
General. He enlisted with the A.I.F. in 1940,
and after 10 months in Malaya was repatriated
to Australia in a Dutch hospital-ship. Dis-
charged medically unfit, he joined the Merchant
Navy and served in it till the end of the war.
In Perth, at 51, Frederick Mills, chief
mechanical engineer of Westralia’s railways.
Leading-draftsman with Armstrong Whitworth
in England after service in World War I, he
came to Perth in 1926 to design loco-engines,
and in 1940 won a £lOOO prize from America
for designing a welded plate for steam-
locomotives.
In England, at 75, Vice-Admiral John Harper,
a Maorilander from Christchurch who left
Christ’s College to enter the R.N. in 1888, and
who, before he retired in 1927, had fought in
the S’African War, navigated the King’s yacht
Victoria and Albert, compiled the official record
of the Battle of Jutland (which justified Jellicoe),
and had been naval A.D.C. to King George V.
At Auckland (M.L.), at 83, Arthur Brett, son
of Sir Henry Brett, one of the founders of the
Auckland “Star.” A Nelson College man, he
joined his father’s printing business, worked for
experience on the Melbourne “Herald,” and
later brought the first linotypes to M.L.
At 55, in Sydney, Arthur Harwell, Old Digger,
D.C.M., M.M. A Federal president of the
Printing Industry Employees’ Union, and for
15 years Sydney “Sun’s” Father of the Chapel.
At 85, in Melbourne, Herbert John Brunning,
one of the State’s leading horticulturists. With
Alister Clark, he founded the National Rose
Society.
At Geelong (Vic.), at 87, Donald P. C.
Wilson, of the woolbroking firm of Dennys,
Lascelles. One of the originators of
8.A.W.R.A., he founded the Returned Soldiers’
Woollen Mills at Geelong,


Women’s Letters
From Melbourne
Big fires and large bowls of autumn
foliage, poinsettia and pastel-toned
hydrangea made the State drawing-room
at Government House a cheery setting
for the late-aftemoon party given by the
Acting-Governor, Sir Edmund Herring,
and Lady Herring to thank those who
assisted with the organisation of Empire
Youth Sunday. The Governor’s lady
wore a frock of black sheer and fine
Chantilly lace and a dyed-ermine cape.
Looking well after his short visit to
Queensland, the Premier was accom-
panied by Mrs. Hollway, her hyacinth-
blue frock worn under a full-length dyed-
ermine coat and with a matching hat of
hyacinth-blue, feather-trimmed. Black
English boucle fashioned the trimly-
tailored coat worn by Mrs. J. A. Collins,
who was with her husband, Rear-Admiral
Collins. Mrs. Trevor Oldham’s smoke-
grey jacket-suit had a pleated skirt; her
cloche hat was grey and cherry-red.
English visitor Virginia Dolbey topped
her black tailored coat with an off-the-
face hat of dove-grey silk straw. Mrs.
Everard Baillieu’s clerical-grey coat had
the nipped-in waistline and full-flared
skirt; her small head-hugging hat was of
black sequins finished with a black osprey.
Mrs. T. Allan McKay’s cinnamon-brown
crepes were finished with flashing gold
buttons. Mrs. Cecil McKay teamed a
brilliant-red jacket and black tailored
skirt and added a matching red-velvet
halo hat. A swathe of pale-gold jersey
added distinction to the Murdoch lady's
grey jersey hat. Sweeping black ospreys
trimmed the small black hat worn by
Mrs. Harold Rabling with her black suit.
Guests at the Lord Mayor’s Ball in the
Town Hall saw a splendid stage-setting,
the work of the Curator of Parks and
Gardens. Motif was the 1956 Olympic
Games. Dominating the scene was the
giant figure of an aborigine holding in
one hand a shield and in the other a blaz-
ing Olympic torch. One backdrop de-
picted figures of ancient Greeks with the
Acropolis as a background. Of the gowns
worn none was lovelier than that of the
Lady Mayoress, Mrs. J. S. Disney. Of
grey Chantilly lace over silver-grey
French crepe, it had floating panels at
the back, forming a short train. Mrs.
Maurice Nathan’s pale-grey satins were
patterned in tiny mauve flowers encircled
with matching sequins. Mrs. Dick
Noone’s gown of white taffeta had the
off-the-shoulder neckline banded in gold.
A hand-woven shawl in white wool was
worn by Mrs. Conrad Charlton with her
white satins. Mrs. Max Mitchell had lace
outlining the bodice of her bouffant white
organza gown. A Regency gown of
claret-toned faille with a pale-green
diagonal stripe was worn by Mrs. J.
Bowen Pain; filmy matching tulle
swathed her shoulders. Mrs. Ronald Nott
was in black faille embroidered in velvet
coin-spots. Mrs. T. H. Jones’s orchid
crepes were sunray-pleated.
Brown tulle, the skirt fashioned in
tiers, was the choice of Mrs. P. L. Cole-
man. Wife of Chief Justice John Latham
wore a gown of black Chantilly lace over
fuschia taffeta, the bodice embroidered
with fuschia sequins. Rear-Admiral J. A.
Collins was with his wife, whose
turquoise-blue crepe frock was worn with
a matching jacket studded with sequins.
Mrs. S. J. Fletcher, wife of the U.S.
Consul-General, added silver-fox furs to
her slim-fitting black crepe gown. Mrs.
W. K. Burnside’s deep-brown tulle gown
had the skirt panels and bodice em-
broidered in gold bugle beads and multi-
colored sequins.
The vogue for fur-lined boots at race-
meetings is spreading, and at Flemington
for the Grand National hurdle quite a
number of women wore them with fur
coats, tweeds and feather-trimmed hats.
Most popular hat of the day was the
head-hugging cloche, and for once the
sombre blacks and browns gave place to
green, from lime to vivid forest tonings.
Yellow, taif and tartans were also
popular. A pale-green English tweed coat
with a full swinging back and with collar
and cuffs of Kolinsky fur was worn by
Mrs. C, Curtain. Mrs. P. L. Coleman’s
frock and jacket were aqua-blue. A pale-
mauve felt bonnet tied with veiling was
worn by Mrs. Harold Holt with her dove-
grey cloth coat; her court shoes were of
bronze kid. With her coat of dyed
Canadian squirrel Ruth Tyrwhitt-Drake
wore a white angora beret, matching it
with high boots and a bag.
Brown suede fur-lined boots were worn
by Mrs. Gordon de Lisle with a grey-and-
white-check coat and tartan hat and scarf.
Mrs. Len Buxton highlighted her' mink
coat with a winter-white cloche hat
trimmed at one side with a bunch of white
ostrich-feathers. Her daughter Beverley
was snug in a brown beaver tippet, hat
and muff which she wore with a smoke-
grey suit. A swing-back, high-necked
coat of grey Bedford cord was worn by
Mrs. Ronald Nott with a small grey,
osprey - trimmed hat. Mrs. Rupert
Downes’s full-length grey Indian-lamb
coat had a matching muff ; a crimson felt
hat lent contrast. With Mrs. Fred
Dennett’s black Persian-lamb coat were
trimmings of similar fur on her hat.
Tomato-red angora bands were contrast-
ing notes in the black ensemble worn by
Mrs. A. Silk. Mrs. E. F. Billson covered
her rose-toned suit with a royal beaverine
coat.
A letter from England from Robin
Mackay, who went away with her mother
to do a course in dramatic art, tells of
her engagement to Ben Johnson, the only
son of Mr. and Mrs. H. S. Johnson, of
Cambridge. The wedding is to take place
in Salisbury early in October, and Robin
will be married from the house of her
cousin, Dr. F. L. Buttar, whose daughter
Sine will be one of the bridesmaids.
Robin, who was educated at St.
Catherine’s, will have two school-friends,
Suzanne George and Margaret Macgown,
also as bridesmaids. Robin is the only
child of the Cecil Mackays, of Toorak ;
her father will arrive in England late in
July, and will stay for the wedding and
give Robin away. Robin’s future home
will be in Cambridge.
Diane, younger daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Charles Weir, of Darcoola, Hay
(N.S.W.), and Toorak, will be married to-
morrow (Thursday) to Norman K. Baker,
third son of Mr. and Mrs. Baker, of
Carinya, Westmere (Vic.), at St. John's
C. of E., Toorak. Diane, who is a
barrister, hopes to continue in her pro-
fession after her marriage.
Dancing by candlelight and the eating
of Austrian dishes for supper were high-
lights of the novel evening organised by
the International Club’s Austrian group.
The Austrian-born wore colorful national
costumes, and members of the Viennese
choir, which included Stephen Haag,
Halinka de Tarczynski, Otto Nechwatai
and Franz Onger sang gay national songs,
while dancers Telga Steiner and Herbert
Listov entertained with folk dances.
Mrs. Herbert Brookes, the president of
the 1.C., wearing black velvet trimmed
with diamente, received the guests.
Among them were Mrs. A. A. Nicolades,
wife of the Consul for Greece, in a hip-
length peasant jacket heavily embroi-
dered in colored silks, with a full, formal
black skirt; Mrs. Helene Fischer, wife of
the U.S. Vice-Consul, in a black-beaded,
long-sleeved dinner-gown and fur cape ;
Mrs. G. J. W. Pieters, wife of the Agri-
cultural Attache of the Netherlands Le-
gation, wearing a slim-fitting white crepe
gown patterned with gay field flowers ;
Mrs. L. H. Eyies, hon. sec. of the club,
whose tomato - red accordion-pleated
dinner-frock was highlighted with gold
accessories; and Mrs. G. H. Hargrave,
wearing a pencil-slim black skirt, slashed
in front with a white silk jersey-draped
blouse under a coat of baby seal.
The children’s dining-room in the
Stratheden, with its quaint murals, was
the venue for the pre-sailing party given
by the Ray Josephs. The hostess wore a
water-mole coat and a winter-white felt
hat flying London-tan ospreys. Mrs. Reg
Vail’s black Persian-lamb-trimmed coat
was topped by a gay little pink ostrich-
feathered hat. Ray’s sister, Rita Joseph,
wore a black-braided coat and wine velvet
hat. Mrs. M. Hall crowned her hat with
pink feathers; her coat was dyed-ermine.
An attractive gold lame hat with a tassel
finish set off Maida Voigt’s grey tailored
coat. Mrs. Tom Corrigan’s bottle-green
tailored coat was worn with a matching
felt hat. Vera Pritchard’s draped beret,
hunter’s-green in tone, was worn with a
taupe cloth coat with Persian-lamb collar.
Mrs. Norman Lynch matched her grey
ensemble with a feather-trimmed hat.
From Sydney
Crowded to the very back wall, the
vestibule of the Town Hall was one of the
city’s cosy spots last Thursday afternoon.
This afternoon of music, arranged for the
Lady Mayoress’s Relief Fund, was one
of the most successful in T.H. annals.
Unfortunately the Lady Mayoress her-
self was absent; she had been at the
scene of the party earlier in the day, but
influenza had forced her home. Mrs. Hope
Gibson, who directed the programme,
wore an air of quiet triumph, dark-grey
tailorings and Arctic-fox furs. Pianist
Eunice Gardiner, who played with radi-
ance and authority, warmed herself be-
tween her numbers with the help of an
oil-stove in the artists’ den, as did accom-
panists Gladys Hart and Marie Van
Hove and singer Denise Thompson.
Denise Thompson, a slim youngster
whose black frock hadl a cascade of
lotos-blue sash down the front of the
long skirt, tossed a sparkle of coloratura
notes into the air. Her mother had come
from Bathurst to hear her. Baritone
Kenneth Stenton and 'cellist Cedric
Ashton added their art to the afternoon.
Among the listeners was Josephine
Marks, recently made a life-governor of
St. Vincent’s, for which hospital and its
neighbor the hospice she has always been
a keen worker. Her theme was the suc-
cessful dinner-party for St. Vincent’s,
held at Rancliff, Woollahra, the previous
night.
Last Friday evening the vice-chancel-
lor of the University, Professor Stephen
Roberts, and Mrs. Roberts gave a recep-
tion of the dimensions it deserved in the
Senate Room of the Uni. This is some-
times known as the Blue Room, and its
color-scheme appears to be dictated by
a striking painting of a Restoration Lady
dressed in blue satin. The Senate Room
looks down through a large window at
one end over the Great Hall. More
suggestive than usual of the midnight
oil were its illuminations—hurricane-
lamps and lamps prideful with incandes-
cent burners. The guests at this large
cocktail-party numbered about 300. They
were mostly of academic and diplomatic
flavor. The party, too, served as a wel-
come to many newly-arrived professors
and their wives. Mrs. Roberts is actively
interested in university affairs. She is a
keen worker for the Settlement and is
president of the S.U.D.S. committee.
Photograph of Mrs. Roberts by Norton
Trevaire.
In this city of practically no light and
no heat the reception given by the Aus-
tralian-American Movement to singer
Marjorie Lawrence was held in twilight
gloom lit by a few beams from occasional
wall lights and a hurricane-lamp. The
afternoon’s speaker was E. J. Hallstrom.
Marjorie sat on the little dais be-
side the speaker and smiled down on
rows and rows of women wrapped in
everything but the bed-clothes —the day
was bitter chill.
Marjorie’s hat wore a sweeping golden
plume, and on her snow-lynx were pinned
the orchids sent to her for her opening
concert by the pilot of the plane which
flew her from U.S.A. Mrs. Florence
Taylor, president of the women’s com-
mittee of the A.-A. Movement, who,
with Mrs. Harald Bowden and the wife of
America’s Consul-General Orsen Niel-
sen, had received the guests, made a speech
that was a greeting to Miss Lawrence
and a prologue to Mr. Hallstrom’s talk
(without slides) on New Guinea. A sigh
of envy so deep from the heart it almost
melted the congealed atmosphere went
up from the assemblage as the returned
traveller described the bird-of-paradise
headdresses worn by the men of New
Guinea. It must seem like liquid sun-
shine when a thousand or more of these
are twirling and leaping in ceremonial
dance.
Wanderers from home Charles and
Mrs. Lloyd Jones send winging an air-
mail from Ireland, Belfast to be exact:
“The moment we glimpsed the Emerald
Isle from our plane we knew we should
like it. The pattern of prosperous farms
from the air was like a giant patchwork'
quilt in every shade of green.” Mr. and
Mrs. Jones were being shown the ro-
mance of the linen industry. Their guide
and host was Sir Graham Larenor, who
is the flax king of Ireland, head of the
guild, and who was host to the Royal
Edinburghs on their recent visit to Bel-
fast.
Why do the Nations so furiously rage
together
And why do the Peoples imagine a vain
thing?
sang basso Oscar Natzka at his concert
in the Town Hall last week. Why indeed?
echoed his hearers, mentally thinking of
overseas clashes of will, and of their own
misery in this heatless, lightless and cold-
comfort town. Oscar, who comes from
Maoriland, has had good houses for his
concerts despite the power-restrictions.
During the war years the associate
members of the Royal Sydney Yacht
Squadron formed an auxiliary to knit
comforts and raise funds for the Navy.
Last Friday there was a friendly re-
union of these war-workers at the
R.S.Y.S. club at Kirribilli. Midway
through the afternoon there was an easy
and informative talk by Mrs. Ethel M.
Stephenson, an English visitor travelling
in the Athenic.
Mrs. Stephenson is a poetess, and
knows her English poetry intimately and
critically. Among other works she has
published is a book on T. S. Eliot, now
in its third edition. President of the
associates, Mrs, F. White, introduced the
speaker, and Mrs. Frank Louat made
speech of thanks. Mrs. Don Taylor, a
former president of the associates, was
warmly greeted after her recent illness.
The guests all bore old-established
squadron names such as Goddard,
Garment, Fitzhardinge. Noted, too,
Mrs. H. J. Perkins, her coat 100 per cent,
sealskin.
Sydney playwright Max Afford saw
the curtain rise on his aptly-named (in
these times) “Dark Enchantment” at the
Minerva last week. In spite of lighting
restrictions and an auxiliary plant, the
stage presented the right atmosphere,
as the play is set in gas-lit Victorian-age
interiors.
Max and Mrs. Max, who designed the
wardrobe, have nothing but gratitude for
the stage-hands, who worked almost
miraculously in the backstage gloom,
and for a cast which made-up cheerfully
and without one grumble by the aid of
lanterns. Now, if only transport condi-
tions are eased a bit the play seems set
for a good run. If omens are to be be-
lieved something good should be in it
for the writer. He nearly drenched him-
self opening a bottle of champagne at
the supper-party which followed the
opening.
Marjorie Lawrence’s frock for her
third concert suggested the coming of
spring to the land. Full-skirted it was,
and richly-green, and gleamed with
rhinestones like blades of grass glinting
with dewdrops. Pardon the lyricism, but
Marjorie deserves it all. She was the
only vivid creature among the thousands
in the Town Hall. Every other woman
was in a cocoon of woolly garments.
Heads in awe of the T.H. breezes were
covered with felt hat and beret, and knees
with thick travelling rugs. High moment
of the concert was the ending of Mar-
jorie’s singing of Grieg’s “I Love Thee,”
which she dedicated to her husband,
“now sick in hospital in Melbourne.”
As the last note died away, on to the
Stage her husband came. He was very
pale, limping with the aid of a stick and
carrying an immense bouquet of camel-
lias tied with rose-red ribbons. It was a
fair-dinkum surprise. Husband had flown
up from Melbourne on the late-afternoon
plane.
Two parties of last week still being
talked about were the cocktail-party in
the Italian ship Sorriento, and the recep-
tion given by Canada’s Minister K. M.
Greene and Mrs. Greene in the Gloucester-
room of the Australia, Mr. and Mrs.
Greene are returning to Canada after
about two and a half years in Canberra.
With them Anne Milson, of Canberra,
a great friend of the Greenes’ only
daughter Patsy, sails in the Aorangi also.
Senior Trade Commissioner for Canada
C. M. Croft goes off in the same ship for
some months’ leave. Guests at the recep-
tion included members of the consular
and diplomatic corps.
The Musical Association raised its
gloria to Marjorie Lawrence last Friday
afternoon in the Trocadero. Guests were
either full-time musicians or lovers of
music. Miss Lawrence’s speech charmed
the ear as her hat did the gaze. This was
of black straw. The straight brim widened
to the front, and on it rested two red
roses. Faunce Allman and Frank
Hutchens received the guests.
The Catholic Women’s Music Club
held its inaugural recital in Legion House,
Castlereagh-street, recently. Well-known
conductor Joseph Post is musical
director of the club, which aims to hold
concerts by leading and beginning musi-
cians and singers throughout the year.


AUSTRALIA’S INTERNATIONAL AIRLINE
Q[A
ANNOUNCES A NEW
REGULAR AIR SERVICE TO
%
KONG
HONG
&ABUAN
DARWIN
EY
Opening up a new, fast
route of trade and travel, the new Q.E.A.
Service by air from Sydney to Hong Kong
—via Darwin and Labuan (North Borneo) —
links Australia with China in less than 30 hours!
Fortnightly services by comfortable Skymaster
airliners—with excellent meals, served in the air,
and first class steward service.
Consulf your fravel agent or
In association with British Overseas Airways Corporation
SHELL HOUSE, MARGARET ST., SYDNEY, BXII6I • CARGO: 13 BRIDOS ST., BW 1825
FOE ALL PASSENGER INQUIRIES IN OFFICE HOURS, DIRECT PHONE, 8W2861
The Australian
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Knitting, Crochet and
Needlecraft
Health Talk, Mothercraft
Serial, Short Stories and
Special Articles
On sale everywhere
Price 3d
Now Available at Angus & Robertson's
Winston Churchill’s
Memoirs
The Second World War; Volume 2
THEIR FINEST HOUR
“Never did so many owe so much to so few.”
Price 30/- (Post Bd.)
The first volume, THE GATHERING STORM, is also
available. Price 30/- (post Bd.)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LIMITED,
Booksellers and Publishers
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. MA 6511.
TBne best as©
The training of a gun dog should begin as
soon as he starts losing his puppy ways. He
may be able to work intelligently at about one
year, and should be at his best for keenness,
steadiness, intelligence and hard work from
about 3 years until old age makes him too slow.
A whisky enters its prime from the
gives it fine bouquet and mellow flavour. Corio
Special is aged for over five years (more
than double the minimum prescribed by
Commonwealth law).
Corio Special
age of five years onwards. Maturity
Whisky at its prince,
CV/16
THE SERVICE MAN
No Preparation.
“Ek Dum”; Each month
brings nearer the time when the
danger of war must be faced,
since the unbalance in basic
armament grows greater every
day.
Conscription in the U.S.S.R.,
apart from the fact that it pro-
vides every youngster over the
age of seven with the rudiments
of a military training, and con-
ditions him or her for the
various arms of the forces, also
equips 2,000,000 young adults
with training for up to two
years. Each batch which comes
out of this experience has had
the training of a regular soldier,
which has been administered to
them irrespective of their per-
sonal feelings and without any
recourse to Members of Parlia-
ment concerned with whether or
not tender recruits have inner-
spring mattresses with reading
lamps attached, plus a forty-
hour week.
The increasing aggregation of
reserves obviously predicates an
increasing armament potential
apart from the fact that Soviet
Russia has learnt a great deal
industrially from contact with
the West during the past eight
Slovakia and Poland and other
States behind the Iron Curtain,
which similarly are being put
on a regular military-training
basis, has given Soviet Russia a
pool of technical skill it could
never have hoped to enjoy other-
wise.
It is easy to believe that by
1951 all these countries will be
organised for war, and that in
the classes under 30 it would
, be possible without strain to
mobilise inside the Russian bioc,
i leaving out Manchuria and the
Vladivostok area, anything up
to 17,000,000 men.
Armament and aircraft have
hitherto not been Russia’s strong
point, except in artillery, and
transport has been, as a general
rule, not organised on a Western
scale nor with anything like
Western efficiency.
There are reports of U.S.
instruments which have “located”
chain - reaction 1 explosions in
Central Asia, and if this is true
they must be good big ones,
though a war, from the Russian
side, in the light of what is
known about Stalinist aircraft,
could not be won by Russian
atomic energy for many years
to come.
The fact is clear that the
nature of the staple of the
U.S.S.R. war-potential has not
much altered since 1941-1945.
Then the great Russian weapon
was manpower ready to be sac-
rificed on a scale never before
known to history. In the first
stage the sacrifice of almost
limitless blood was not enough
to stem the inexorable forward
push of German forces out-
numbered at least four to one,
though with absolute advantage's
in the matters of transport,
artillery, aircraft and expert-
officer potential.
In the first four months of
the war the Russians admitted
losses of 1,400,000, a record for
all time, and the unfortunate
country continued to break
records in the matter of sacrifice
until it was estimated by the
Kremlin that 20,000,000, includ-
ing civilians, had been wiped-
,out —10 per cent, of the whole
population from birth to death,
taking into account both sexes,
from the new Polish-Russian
border to the Pacific Ocean.
The problem for the or-
ganisers of the defence of West-
ern Europe in any war to come
will be manpower, trained and
available immediately. Mechani-
cal superiority can never abso-
lutely compensate for inferiority
in trained numbers. It is the
last reserves to be put into the
line —or what passes for the line
in modern battles —that win
wars.
The defence of Europe will
not, if war with Russia arises,
be something isolated from the
rest of the world.
With unlimited divisions and
a central position, Russia has as
many directional opportunities
# for military adventuring as an
octopus—a drive through Cen-
tral Europe, a drive to the Per-
sian oilfields, the Suez Canal
and Africa could be manned
contemporaneously with parallel
attacks on -Western Europe and
India. Everywhere the attack
was delivered those who faced
it would be confronted with huge,
slow-moving groups against
which attrition would be wear-
ing on their opponents but not
effectively destructive of the
groups themselves.
Countering these mastodon
forces would call for world co-
operative effort into which
every national force would have
to be fitted and in which that
would be of not much use if
there were not pre-arrangement
as to the nature of the duties to
be undertaken.
It would be reasonable to as-
sume that world forces used on
such an occasion, if they were
allocated to whatever area hap-
pened to be most suitable to
their training, might be pre-
determined at least to some ex-
tent by reference to their own
national environment, climatic-
ally and in terrain.
Thus it would be fair to
assume that South-east Asia or
the Middle Eastern borders
would be the most suitable cam-
paigning districts, being at the
same time the ones to which
men could be transported in the
shortest possible time.
These conditions call for:
id) A force trained and ready to
be transported at a moment’s notice.
(b) The aircraft to transport the
substantial vanguard with ships to
take the rest at early notice under a
proper naval and air guard.
(c) Appropriate air cover, arma-
ment and commissariat for the task.
id) Experience of the technique of
the new types of air-transported war.
Under present conditions Aus-
tralia could not provide any-
thing worth while immediately
under the four headings. There
is no trained manpower—other
than fhe fast-ageing residues of
World War II —fitted to meet
the needs of modern, fast-mov-
ing parachute and mobile-
armored war. There are no
aircraft, artillery on any ade-
quate scale, uniforms suitable
for the kind of operation called
for, no suitable ammunition on
a scale which would allow it to
be drawn on adequately while
leaving stocks for local emerg-
ency in the country. The prob-
lem would have to be faced
from the alpha stage, as would
nearly every other phase of the
business of instant overseas
war.
The possibilities seem to call
for an all-round reorganisation
of the forces. The R.A.N. can
be left out Of consideration for
the moment, since its problem
is separate from the rest. The
requirements of the other two
forces are virtually integral, and
the plan which one might con-
ceive might well be termed a
“butterfly” plan, since it would
have a central axis like a winged
insect’s body, with its potential
zones of operation spread out
on either side like two stout,
broad wings.
On this plan it would be pos-
sible to conceive a defence
which would be capable of
being armed in two directions —
either into Eastern or south-wes-
tern Asia or southward into the
heart of Australia,
The essentials of the scheme
would be, as a first requisite, a


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— Ix Divorce.
TO NORMAN JOSEPH PIKE formerly
of Granville.—TAKE NOTICE that
EMILY MARY PIKE has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 2463 of 1948 on the
ground* of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the sth September 1949 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from
MESSRS. CURTISS DEZARNAULDS &
BUTTFIELD, Solicitors, of 67 Oastle-
reagh Street, Sydney.— (l.s.) J.
DOUGEAN, Acting Registrar in Divorce.
Britain wins in fast low-cost
hauling!
m
v:
M
mu
mm
‘fZ-a
m
m
m-
m
&
m
11
m
m
%
xW
:f7"/
j
DELIVERY FROM STOCK!
Payload, 12 tons; 16 tons with trailer.
l4 m.p.g. of Diesel fuel at l/s|d. gal.
Double-reduction drives on all four
wheels.
8 speeds forward! 2 reverse!
Heavy duty winch, complete with 250
feet of cable. (17,000 lbs. pull on first
layer.)
Compressed air brakes.
Fitted with the WonderfuL A.E.C.
v Diesel Engine, the most used and
tested engine in the world.
10,000 of these vehicles were used in
every theatre of war and proved to
be the most outstanding vehicle in the
combined armies.
jbieJ
110 H.P. TRUCK CHASSIS
“BUILDERS OF LONDON’S BUSES’’
The rugged, economical HEAVY-DUTY
chassis for timber - getters, station-
owners, open-cut coal mining, earth-
moving, road-building and 10-ton tipper
work.
T^ci
OMiio S3NUSVH
Hastings Dee'ring Building
William Street. Sydney—Crown Street Corner
‘Phone M 0412 (25 lines)
chain of strategic ports and air-
bases along the length of the
northern coast, the Eastern end
of the chain being linked to the
defence of New Guinea and
specifically, also, to the defences
of north-eastern Australia.
These air-bases would be
equipped with underground
storage on a sufficient scale and
with runways capable of dis-
patching and receiving simul-
taneously large numbers of
long-distance, heavy-duty air-
craft and large bodies of men
and required war material.
At the same time there would
be needed on the spot the trans-
portable mechanisms of logis-
tics, the airborne guns and their
fodder, the commissariat sup-
plies incidental to long-distance
operations.
The basic essential, however,
is a maximum number of really
modemly-trained members of
the P. 8.1., all expert in certain
indispensable phases which must
include gliders and parachute
operation both phases the
technique of action after
grounding from aircraft, land-
ing, fighting, co-operation with
aircraft and the swift tactical
operations necessary for instant
consolidations by airborne
forces upon the ground.
There is a long way to go be-
fore we have any forces which
fit this requirement.
For all modem types of war
the present syllabus of militia
training is of little use save as
a preliminary conditioning for
the actual implantation of
essential battle knowledge.
It is about time Messrs.
Chifley, Dedman, Chambers
and the rest of the dug-in army
of Ministers which blesses Can-
berra with its presence began to
do something about planning
for the possibilities which may
be immediate.
War in China.
“Ek Bum”: The Chinese
Communist advance is mopping
up the areas of Central Sukien,
and on June 28 it was reported
that they had taken towns
respectively 85 miles north-west
of Amoy and 126 miles west of
Foochow.
In Ihe Shanghai area the situa-
tion is about as complicated as it
could be. The Communists hold
the city and most of its environs.
They also hold the Whangpoo,
or most of it. The Chinese
Nationalists command a gunboat
and most of the approaches to
the river which are not con-
trolled by the navies of the
great Powers —or whatever ap-
proaches one gunboat is cap-
able of holding.
The allied Powers have their
own naval units on the spot,
among them H.M.’s destroyer
Black Swan and the frigate
Alacrity, sent up by Admiral
Madden from Hong Kong to
keep the Whangpoo entry open.
With their departure other
ships also have been transferred
northwards from Hong Kong—
the cruisers Belfast and the
Fiji-class Jamaica, with the de-
stroyer Cossack and the frigate
Hart, all of which have left for
“Japanese waters.”
It promises to be a hard life
for the Chinese Nationalist
Navy for the next few weeks.
The Nationalists claim a 12-
mile territorial limit to their
waters, whereas international
law recognises only three. And
as they cannot even maintain
the international requirements
that they shall defend three,
their claims are worth no more
than a bucket or so of salt
water.
Shanghai is no paradise in
present conditions. The Chinese
Communists already have begun
to “re-educate” the proletariat
according to their own strange
methods. They have banned
“reactionary” textbooks from
their schools and have wiped out
the Boy 3cout movement. They
are beginning to enforce a Com-
munist type of discipline.
The Nationalists also have
been doing some “re-educating”
from the air. As usual in China,
the bombers’ aim was bad. The
main attack was meant for the
North Railway Station. It was
quite natural that it should be
undamaged. Instead, 80 inno-
cent property-owners lost their
houses when the bombs hit
about a mile from the mark at
which they were aimed.
Apparently well pleased with
the sport, and quite unmolested
by Communist gunners, the
visitors flew back and forth
across the south-western section
of the city, apparently aiming at
Lunghwa airport and hitting
everything else in sight.
Much the same results
“I presume you gentlemen know what ‘ deploy ’ means.”
attended further raids on July 3,
but the significant fact was that
Communists were unable to
; nter fere effectively one more
. f . :/ . •
P iece 01 contr uto Y . '
dence that they are not equipped
1° extent with modern wea-
pons and are an open book for
air attack such as they would
be likely to meet on the ap-
proaches to Hong Kong.
The Canny Swiss.
Unlike the Poles and others
that have taken the opportunity
to grab large or microscopic
segments around the German
borders, the Swiss, with a njuch
better case for a grab than most
of them, are prudently declin-
ing to go in for that form of
dragon’s-teeth sowing.
As reported by “U.N.
World”: “For the second time
in 30 years Switzerland has re-
fused to aggrandise its territory
at the expense of Germany by
declining to ask for two tiny
German enclaves not far from
Schaffhausen: a hamlet called
Veranhof and the community of
Btlssingen.
“After the first war many
Swiss suggested that the time
had come to incorporate these
enclaves into the Swiss Federa-
tion. More cautious voices,
however, pointed out that such
steps might lead to untoward
complications at some future
time. When Hitler, with his
slogan ‘Back to the Reich,’
came into power the Swiss re-
joiced that they had refrained
from a gesture which would
have offered to the Fiihrer a
wonderful pretext for interven-
tion.
“Once more, after the defeat
of Germany in 1945, the BUs-
singen question was revived
when 99 per cent, of the popu-
lation asked for an anschluss to
Switzerland. But, like their
predecessors 30 years ago, the
present Bundesrat are cool to
the idea and will not ask for
Veranhof and Biissingen at the
peace negotiations with Ger-
many.”


fi
f
s
'3t
■V
y
8
*
m
a
BY APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS TO
HIS MAJESTY THE KINO
tins of 20
3/-
SUPER VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
BY
Benson^Hedges
LTD
OLD BOND STREET , LONDON
VA4
There are times which call for
something better than the merely
very good, and demand
the unquestionable best . Where
cigarettes are concerned the man
of taste is guided by the
words “ Benson & Hedges,
Old Bond Street, London 99 . From
this famous address comes fine
tobacco perfection to satisfy all those
occasions when only the best will do.
SUNDRY SHOWS
It is a severe test for Mar-
garet Coen’s “Pyrmont” at the
Australian watercolor show
(Education Dept. Building, Syd-
ney) that it is hung beside Nor-
man Lindsay’s “Hircus Noc-
turnus.” The Norman Lindsay
watercolor is a kind of witches
carnival in the heavens with
lovely naked witches, goats and
a towering storm-god, all con-
vulsed by terrific energy, and a
magnificent heart of storm, like
a white hand of lightning. Mar-
garet Coen’s picture is of the
city, a railway-engine and drift-
ing smoke and a high sky
nature observed in conjunction
with the works of man, in tran-
quillity. Both paintings, in their
separate fashions the one
furious, the other captivating-
are almost equally beautiful.
Margaret Coen’s other work
in the exhibition confirms this
high estimate of her quality.
“Flowers of Storm,” one of her
large flowerpieces, has the rich-
ness and color of her best work,
with something else —a kind of
unity of art which gives the
painting, within its boundaries
of beautiful realism, the spon-
taneity of a flame. “Willow in
Autumn,” with its graceful lines
and autumn gold, is scarcely
less lovely. Mary Edwards’s
pale gold “Banksia,” a graceful
piece of fantasy, is another out-
standing painting.
G. K. Townshend’s work is too
sombre —and, as though he were
well aware of it, in “Silent Low-
lands” there is color too deter-
minedly applied. Another
painting, of haystacks under a
lowering sky, has, however, a
minor sombre impressiveness.
“Stillness,” a picture of rocks
under a green, eerie light, is
another picture which is very
nearly fully effective.
John Eldershaw’s landscapes
are flat, below his usual
standard. Max Ragless’s
clouds are woolly, and his
bright colors lacking in
subtlety, though “Green Hills”
is a landscape with strength and
unity, rather like an average
Eldershaw. Frank McNamara’s
“George - street North” and
“Colonial Homestead, Bathurst”
show his usual precision and
sure strength and his usual cold-
ness. Ronald Steuart has de-
voted careful color and a sensi-
tive line to a “Seashell” com-
position—a concentration which
scarcely seems worth while.
Other paintings with flashes of
quality include Robert Camp-
bell’s “Showers in Springtime”
and Loreto Gravine’s “Ben-
glusa.”—J, F.
* * * *
The true heroic proportions
of MSrjorie Lawrence’s dramatic
soprano came with that stu-
pendous piece of sustained sing-
ing Brunnhilde’s final scene
from “Gotterdammerung,” That
was the tail of her first pro-
gramme at Sydney Town Hall,
the head being Beethoven’s
“Ah! Perfido,” and the middle
ranging from some beauti-
fully-sung Schubert to modern
art-songs, folk airs and the in-
evitable “Annie Laurie” and
“Waltzing Matilda.” The singer
is at her most impressive in the
middle and lower registers,
where her natural rich warmth
of tone and mellowness gain
their greatest effects. Subse-
quent programmes were selected
from a boundless repertoire.
* * * *
From deep, sonorous, rever-
berating power to a perfectly-
controlled half - voice Oscar
Natzka’s basso has been delight-
ing Sydney audiences —seldom
are beauty of tone and power
so well combined. Natzka’s
dramatic declamations in airs
from Bcdto’s “Meflstofele” are
injected with menace; yet he
steps to that straight from the
tenderly bantering “When a
Maiden Takes Your Fancy,”
from Mozart’s “U Seraglio.” A
string of airs by Brahms,
Handel and Beethoven, solemnly
delivered, give the impression
that this Natzka is seriousness
personified; then, without bat-
ting an eyelid, he swings into
that lilting air about “The
Foggy, Foggy Dew.”
* * * *
In Max Afford’s “Dark En-
chantment” (Sydney Minerva) a
foreign ventriloquist curses the
boarding - house - keeper’s
daughter who has thrown him
over for a detective, goes out
and gets killed and leaves his
doll to haunt the girl. Mr,
Afford has contrived some four
or six scenes of suspense—cul-
minating in moments which
really make the scalp tingle—
and two excellent acts. But
when he comes to the third and
last act it is as if, like
Faustus, he had invoked forces
and horrors beyond his powers
of comprehension and control
—his poor mortal efforts to
solve these mysteries would not
satisfy even a Speed Gordon fan.
The premiere of “Dark En-
chantment” was a shared
triumph for Georgie Sterling,
who made a very pretty little
boarding - house - keeper’s
daughter, and acted swiftly and
certainly and screamed thril-
lingly, and the ventriloquist’s
doll, the most shiveringly sinister
ventriloquist’s doll The Bulletin
has ever seen. Richard Parry
might have put a little more
sinister gloating into the mys-
teriously terrifying ventrilo-
quist ; Neva Carr-Glyn, as the
gipsy woman, might have put a
little less violence into a part
not very carefully written for
her.
* * * *
The Kiwis, who ousted talkies
from Sydney Empire with their
variety show “Alamein,” have
held that theatre for 24 weeks ;
their second offering, “Ben-
ghazi,” comes up for public in-
spection next Monday.
Sydney Tiv. was the only
large legit, house to succumb to
the lighting restrictions, all the
others making a go of things in
one way or another. The
Palace, Empire and Royal can
generate their own power from
diesel or petrol engines, while
the Minerva managed some ex-
cellent improvisation with
lamps and batteries. The Inde-
pendent Theatre at North Syd-
ney has a small auxiliary plant
which can cope with the
theatre’s Thursday-Friday-Satur-
day night performances of “The
Male Animal,” but which can-
not produce enough power for
the lighting requirements of
John Alden’s production of
“The Tempest,” so that had to
be postponed.
The Metropolitan’s “Romeo
and Juliet” had to close for lack
of light, and its next produc-
tion, Douglas Stewart’s “Ship-
wreck,” looks like being delayed
for want of power for the sew-
ing-machines that are making
the costumes.
* * * *
The massive stone and dark,
heavy beams of the Chapter
House of St. Andrew’s
Cathedral, Sydney, made an
effective setting for the Globe
Players’ performance of “Mac-
beth” last week, a setting
further dramatised by the
towering shadows and flicker-
ing lamps which replaced the
non-existent electric light. Even
with those advantages, however,
the performance was a poor one,
and the speech of several of the
players was often so inaudible or
unintelligible the words of
Banquo and Duncan rarely got
beyond their beards —that one
wished that James Workman, as
Macbeth, would whirl in fury
from the three witches and hurl
the accusation “imperfect
speakers” at a few more of his
associates.
Workman’s Macbeth had a
rough vitality that held together
some of the shreds left by the
other players; Phil James, as
Macduff, also managed a crude,
if somewhat uncertain, vigor,
and Jackie Kott gave Lady
Macduff a touch of quiet
dignity which was an effective
preliminary note to her tragedy.
Elizabeth Reber’s Lady Mac-
beth, however, never matched
her husband, let alone domi-
nated him, at any part of the
proceedings —the strongest sub-
stitute she could produce for
the milk of human kindness
seemed like lemonade, and she
outed her spot as though it was
nothing worse than a gravy
stain.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy books on the manufacture
of harness and saddles. —4653.
To buy set of six inner sleeves for
a 20-h.p., 6-cyl. model A-B. Minerva
car-engine of approximately 1923
manufacture. —4655.
Name and address of importer or
retailer of Auxoline Pomade. —4654.
Words of verse “That Day at Boil-
ing Downs” by Jack Mathieu. —4656.
To buy copy of The Cocker Spaniel
by V. A. H. Matthews. —4658.
To buy copy of Journalism for
Women by Molly Graham. —4659.
To buy copy of How M’Dougal
Topped the Score by Thos. E.
Spencer.—46s7.
Information Sought.
Cause and treatment for “die-back”
in roses?
-Actual cause is not known, and
there is no sure method of treatment.
The disease may often be arrested if,
after pruning off at least 2in. below
the browned limbs, you spray with
lilme and sulphur at intervals of three
days and dig a tablespoon of super-
phosphate about the base. Water
lightly during treatment. Badly
affected bushes should be dug out.
* * * *
How did the following Sydney
suburbs get their names: (1) Waitara,
(2) Wahroonga, (3) Warrawee and
(4) Turramurra?
(1) It is a Maori word meaning
“pure water.” Name suggested by
Miles McCrae, one of the earliest to
own land there. (2) Aboriginal place-
name meaning “our home.” ( (3)
Aboriginal place-name meaning “rest
a bit.” Name suggested by R. G.
Edwards. The locality was a sort of
half-way house for the blacks while
on a journey. (4) Aboriginal word
for “high land.”
* * * ♦
(1) What is meant by the ' term
“fifth column’’ ? (2) How did ii
originate ?
(1) The term was applied during
World War II to a systematic or-
ganisation of spies penetrating the
civilian life of the enemy country to
acquire information, obstruct military
preparations, alarm, confuse and
divide the populace, and assist or
join the invading army. It also ap-
plied to citizens who were enemy
sympathisers. (2) During the Spanish
Civil War (1936-1939), by General
Mola, who stated in a broadcast that
he had four columns of soldiers
advancing on Madrid and a fifth
column of sympathisers -within the
city that would arise to attack the
defenders from the rear.
* * * *
Details of the Red fern (N.S.W.)
railway smash that occurred in the
’nineties of last century?
The smash occurred in Sydney
Yard, opposite the (old) Redfern
signal-box, on October 31, 1894, when
the 8.50 a.m. passenger-train from
Parramatta collided with the 9.30 a.m.
train from Sydney to Goulburn. Al-
though the impact was slight, since
the country train had been brought
to a stand and the speed of the
suburban train reduced to about
5 m.p.h., 13 persons, including two
enginemen, were killed and 30 pas-
sengers were injured. The large
death-roll was caused by steam
escaping from the locomotive of the
suburban train. The material damage
was very small.
* * * *
How many times did Joe Louis
and Billy Conn fight for the world’s
heavyweight championship ? Did
Conn once outpoint Louis?
Joe Louis and Billy Conn fought
twice for the world’s heavyweight
championship, held by Louis. On
June 18, 1941, Louis knocked out
Conn in round 13, and on June 19,
1946, Louis k.o.’d Conn in the eighth
round. Conn was leading on points
at end of round 12 in their first fight,
but he started swapping punches with
Louis in the 13th, and was knocked
out.
Brief Answers.
S.M.: The following words in
the dialect of the aborigines of the
Tasmanian East Coast (St. Mary’s
district) may be of use: Kellatie,
deep water; menace keetarrah, little
river; lyeltya, waves on the beach;
and lialeetea, sea G.R.: Dave
Sands’s real name is David Ritchie.
He was born at Burnt Bridge, near
Kempsey (N.S.W.), on February 4,
-1926. Sands’s father was a half-
caste Australian aboriginal, and his
mother a half-caste Polynesian
J.P.C.; Estimated population of Aus-
tralia at December 31 in the years
stated was as follows: —1880:
1,204,514 males and 1,027,017 females
—total, 2,231,531 ; 1900: 1,976,992 and
1,788,347—t0ta1, 3,765,339; 1910:
2,296,308 and 2,128,775 —total,
4,425,083; 1920: 2,751,730 and
2,659,567—t0ta1, 5,411,297; 1930:
3,311,722 and 3,189,029--total,
6,500,751; 1940: 3,570,846 and
3,506,918 total, 7,077,764
N. It is quite possible that the
oranges are falling as a result of
fruit-fly sting, which causes in some
areas quite severe dropping of fruit.
It is possible that the March rains
experienced could have been respon-
sible, to some extent. N.S.W. Agri-
cultural Dept, is inclined to the
former belief, however... .T.A.Z.:
Get in touch with Mr. Jackson,
O. T. Lempriere and Co., Bowden-
street, Alexandria (N.S.W.).
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the
MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS, should be
addressed to the Editor ,
A.M.: Windy introduction and
mechanical ending A.8.R.: Sent
to our Chinese greengrocer for an
extra opinion; he thought, as we did,
that you were writing through your
hat L.P.: Sydney traffic-cop de-
tailed to catch a gang of inter-
national smugglers. Tell it to Scott.
W.M.A.: Has been covered over
and over again 8.5.: Original, we
don’t doubt; acceptable, emphatically
not E.R.Y.: Doubt whether it
would have any meaning for the
average reader... .H.R.H.: Carefully
done, but never reaches a high level.
.... Bellerive: A fine tribute: —
R.McK.; Among the down-and-
outs P.D.D.: We receive at least
one description annually of much
the same philosophic swagman....
N.M.W.: Can’t hold out hope of
publication, but you should have no
difficulty in placing it with any
insomnia sufferer... .8.8. T.: Your
theological romance was passed over
to the Religious Editor. He is still
on the bender... .E.A.F.: Booze-
artists and their nocturnal cemetery
wanderings rarely raise a grin
nowadays....J.H.F.: Deserted wife
touches the heart* but nae the purse.
Daily old Ned along
A suburban road
Would slowly wend forth
With a heavy load.
Up and down hills
On a outward trip,
A willing, good horse,
He never felt the whip.
Well treated, old Ned
Did live for years,
And when he died
His master shed tears.
A few simple lines
On a horse long dead,
Who’d toiled for his food
And stable-straw bed.


You'll travel
liqhter with
hkj
GLOBITE
TRAVEL CASES
Stronger,
‘J ‘ ’
smarter,
longer-lasting l
ms sm
KISMET
4 c/atadeV
What’s the value of a tyre gauge? If it isn’t
accurate, it’s worthless. If it is accurate —and made
to stay accurate —it’s worth every penny of its cost.
That’s the Kismet for you . . . truthful every time
. . . which means a properly balanced car, comfort-
able to ride in, safe and easy to drive.
AND what price a Foot Pump ? Or a Hand Pump ?
Just ask your Garage Man to let you try a Kismet.
See how easily its double-cylinder action inflates a
tyre! Then examine it closely . . . note the fine,
solid Sheffield workmanship.
Tou’ll never grudge the little more you pay for a
Kismet product. It comes back to you in extra years
of real service.
KISMET
TYRE GAUGE
Made by William Turner (Kismet), Etd.j
Sheffield, England.
Representative in Australia:
Mr. E. O. Jones, 43-49 Hardware St., Melbourne, 04, Victoria. G.P.O. Box 71.
RENRUT
HAND PUMP
KISMET
MASTER
FOOT PUMP
A ALL-BRITISH
(Way
GIVES
PERSONALITY
TO YOUR i
WRITING |
THE POPULAR PEN
MARVELLOUS NIB
Conway Stewart & Co. Ltd.,
DRY SMOKING!
The British BUTTNERPipe
with highly porous ceramic filter.
No breaking-ln, bite, burn, wet
dottle or waste.
Price, 19/6, post free.
Illustrated leaflet on request.
Sole Australian Distributors:
Charles Whetton Pty. Ltd.,
156 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
with the
London.
S. W. RAMSAY
Melbourne and Sydney
Ancestors of
v % an Industry
m
Thomas Andrews is rightly famed for his
study of the physical properties of fluids. Scien-
tists of his day knew that all gases could be
liquefied simply by cooling. The fact that some
could be liquefied by compression was also estab-
lished. Andrews broke new ground showing
that above what he called “critical temperature,”
no amount of compression would produce lique-
faction. As knowledge of the critical temperature
of any gas is essential to an understanding of its
behaviour, this discovery had far-reaching effects
on chemistry and engineering. Modern industry’s
uses of liquefied gases, such as chlorine, oxygen,
ammonia and sulphur dioxide, all derive from
principles first brought to light by Andrews’
pioneer researches.
Born in 1813, Andrews was educated at Belfast
Academy and the University of Glasgow, where,
at the tender age of fifteen, he published two
original papers—a rare example of youthful
scientific talent. After travelling in France, he
studied at Trinity College, Dublin, and later at
Edinburgh where he took a degree in medicine.
Returning to Belfast, he practised as a physician
until 1845, when he was appointed Professor of
Chemistry at Queen’s College. There he carried
out chemical researches covering a wide field,
but his most important work was his investigation
of the conditions necessary for
liquefying gases. Every refrigera-
tor in use today is a reminder of
Thomas Andrews, the Ulster doc-
tor who became a great chemist.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
IL-81-16
ICI
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
From the beginning of the season
this page has sung the praises of the
present crop of three-year-olds—“the
best we have had for years” (B.
15/9/’48); and what a wonderful
record the youngsters have put up!
Setting the standard right from the
start, the first weight-for-age race of
the season in Sydney, the Warwick
Farm Spring Stakes, was won by the
maiden three-year-old Septet, while,
on the same day, Bernbrook won the
Campbelltown Handicap. A couple
of weeks later (prophetically) Bern-
brook and Carbon Copy finished first
and second in the Chelmsford Stakes,
while, in Melbourne, Phoibos ran a
field of classy milers off their legs in
the Glenroy Stakes. Since then a pro-
cession of three-year-old victories in
all manner of races has included
the Fisher Plate, Challenge Stakes,
C. F. Orr Stakes, Oakleigh Plate,
St. George Stakes, King’s Plate, Raw-
son Stakes, Chipping Norton Stake*,
Doncaster (Ist and 2nd), Sydney Cupi
(Ist, 2nd and 3rd), AJ.C. Plate, \
Stradbroke Handicap, and, to top off
the season (though there are a few
weeks to go), Saturday’s Doomben
Jen Thousand (Ist and 2nd).
With a bloated prize attached to
a 6i-furlongs scramble it would be
naive to expect the Doomben to be
anything but a rough-run race, and
Saturday’s running was the roughest
yet. For the first couple of furlongs
it was an out-and-out donnybrook;
after that, as riders saw their chances
irretrievably lost in any case, the
battle quietened down into a running
skirmish. The Law Maker colt
Ungar, missing most of the strife,
won by a length and a half from the
Brisbane three-year-old Lucky Ring,
who, as the saying is, copped the lot.
Third was another lightly-weighted
local galloper in Proud Monash.
Ungar started at sevens. Lucky Ring
at 9 to 2 and Proud Monash at
25 to 1.
Of other fancied runners in the
Doomben, Bernbrook was knocked
from pillar to post at the start, and
lost any remaining chance when Bally-
vista pulled up very suddenly directly
in front of him. San Domenico drew
well at the barrier (No. 3) and had
every chance except that denied him
in the first place by the handicapper;
he collapsed completely under his
burden of 9.7. Suffering sore feet,
Phoibos had been considered a doubt-
ful starter, but took his place in the
field; about all that could be said
of his performance was that he ran
like a horse with sore feet.
Ridden on Saturday by W. William-
son and trained by Fred Hoysted for
Messrs. P. J. Lennon and W. Met-
calfe, Ungar is a black colt by Law
Maker from Viennese, a daughter of
Jhe Night Patrol. Ungar was bred
at Leslie Aldridge’s Kismet Stud,
Sunbury (Vic.), where stood the im-
ported Law Maker until his sudden
death only a couple of months back.
Law Maker commenced his stud
career at Kismet in 1936, and at the
time of his death, rising 19, he had
sired winners of £160,000, including
nearly £30,000 last season; he was
originally purchased from Lord Astor.
Possibly the best of Law Maker’s get
was the unlucky Lawrence, but others
include Counsel (Caulfield Cup and
Futurity Stakes), Laureate (AJ.C.
Derby), Praetor (Caulfield Guineas)
and Clement.
* * * *
It takes more than a total absence
of public transport to keep Melbourne
enthusiasts away from Flemington
when the jumping season is at its
height. Saturday’s programme, with
the -Keilor Hurdle and Kensington
Steeple as hors-d'oeuvres to the main
dish of Grand National Hurdle, at-
tracted them in droves.
The Grand National Hurdle was
won in the very easiest fashion by
Chatsol (K. May). Jumping cleanly
and effortlessly, Chatsol always gave
the impression that he was going well
within himself, running along in
second or third place as Quetzal did
the early pacemaking. • Not long
after leaving the straight the last
time round, Chatsol stretched out, to
soon take the lead (though his rider
was later reprimanded for crossing
too sharply), and from there to the
finish gave his supporters not a hint
of anxiety. Elastin came second,
four lengths behind Chatsol, and
another half-dozen lengths saw Sir
William finish on well into third
place. Elastin went within an ace of
disaster at the first jump, recovered
in time to do precisely the same thing
at the second, scrambled over the
next dozen in haphazard fashion, and
had another particularly close call at
the last jump; all things considered
he did astonishingly well to finish
second, or at all, for that matter.
Chatsol covered the course in the
middling-fair time of 5.33-J-. How-
ever, he certainly earns a place in
the record-books as one of the least
experienced jumpers to ever win a
Grand National Hurdle— he made his
ftret public appearance and won
easily over the jumps at Moonee
Valley the previous Saturday. Two
starts for two wins, including the
National, isn’t a bad record, and
connections are optimistic that the
Solar Bear six-year-old will add next
Saturday’s National Steeplechase to
the score.
If he can handle the larger ob-
stacles, Chatsol must be very hard
to beat in the Steeple. He seems a
faultless jumper, and has given no
hint that he was extended in either
of his hurdle wins. One fault, how-
ever, makes Chatsol a risky proposi-
tion in any sort of race —he’s a
bleeder.
The Kensington Steeple saw David
Star (L. Meenan) return a really ex-
cellent National trial. The Glideaway
gelding carried 12.2 to win most com-
fortably from Mt. Howitt and El
Regis, the last-named being next in the
weights to the winner with 11.8.
Battling on well, Mt. Howitt and
El Regis staged a photo-finish for
the minor money, but they were four
lengths behind the winner. In the
National, David Star is to carry
11.10, and should give an excellent
account of himself. Others with fair
National prospects are Shot By, The
Feline and Mt. Howitt, while as an
outsider Jung Bahadur impresses as
an honest plugger likely at least to
be still on his feet at the finish.
Tire Nizami gelding Full Moon
gave another attractive display of
jumping in the Keilor Hurdle, only
to again bump something a shade too
good—this time the Akanree five-year-
old Niblik (B. R. Smith). Niblik
actually took charge a mile from
home, but Full Moon always looked
to have a good chance until he
boobed the last jump and was then
beaten four lengths, with Midhurst
finishing third.
* * * *
For the first time in 10 years the
names of gentlemen appeared on the
jockeys’ semaphore at Randwick on
Saturday—gentlemen riders, that is,
of course. Welcome back to the
card the ever-popular Corinthian
Handicap!
After the running of the Corin-
thian, A.J.C. committeeman R. F.
Moses was able to proudly claim
that he had bred both the winning
horse and the winning rider. The
Corinthian was won by his three-
year-old Yaralla colt Admetus, rid-
den a splendidly well-judged race by
the committeeman’s 22-year-old son
Mr. R. L. Moses. Moses senior
made it a double (or should it be
treble?) by taking the Three-year-old
Quality (Bf.) with his very good filly
Sheba (R. Selkrig). Sheba was near
to being beaten by the outsider Star
Day, but fought on gamely to score
by a half-length.
$ % Sjt
For Canterbury (before accept- .
ances):
Maiden Stakes (fillies); Skyera, 1;
Flash Back, 2; Starlet, 3. Maiden
(colts and geldings); Golden Tan, 1;
Heritor, 2; Niska, 3. Ashbury
Mixed (6f.): Foxzami, 1; Tom, 2;
Salamanca, 3. Campsie Mixed (Ilf.):
Bay Rex, 1; Susan, 2; Maranga, 3.
Flying: Meteor, 1; Denali, 2; Mine
Host, 3. Canterbury Handicap:
Laudus, 1; Golden Plumes, 2; Hava
Chat, 3. Welter; Bold Archer, 1;
Parrakoola, 2; Sea Spartan, 3.
* * * *
For the Grand National Steeple-
chase: Jung Bahadur, 1; David Star,
2; Mt. Howitt, 3.
For the Doomben Cup: Blue
Slipper, 1; De La Salle, 2; Com-
mentator, 3.
* * * ' *
Features of Wimbledon this year,
apart from a rash of absurd publicity
concerning some female’s lace-edged
pants, were the usual American pre-
dominance (including in the under-
wear department) and the unexpected
*■ ■ ■
"I'll strip off, ref., when I Warm up a bit."
collapse of Australian hopes after a
promising beginning. The reversals
of form turned on by some of our
leading lights would have been con-
sidered a disgrace on the old pony-
courses.
Bromwich went furthest in the
singles, reaching the semi-finals after
beating easily in the quarter-finals
the American Falkenburg, who tossed
Brom. in last year’s, final. Having
wreaked his revenge sublimely, Brom-
wich reverted to the gorblimey in
his semi-final match against Drobny,
who won 6-1, 6-3, 6-2. Grand tennis
and one bright ray of hope for the
future was produced by young Sedg-
man, who, in a quarter-final, was
beaten purely by the greater ex-
perience of the ultimate title-winner,
Ted Schroeder; a hard-fought five-
set match. With an ounce of luck,
really, the semi-finals" and finals could
have been, for a change, a British
Empire affair. Sturgess of South
Africa and Bromwich won their
quarters; Sedgman was just pipped
and Brown went down in five sets to
Drobny. As it was, in the final,
Schroeder defeated Drobny 3-6, 6-0,
6-3, 4-6, 6-4—all credit to Schroeder,
who had to fight hard all the way
through the tournament.
Australia will have a new opponent
in the inter-zone final of the Davis
Cup this year, provided, of course,
the boys reach the final. The Czechs,
finalists in the past two years, were
surprisingly licked in Paris by the
French in the European-zone final.
*****
With the Maoris homeward bound
and the weather back to normal,
Sydney Rugby Union clubs on Satur-
day resumed normal competition
matches. There were some rattling
close games, notably those in which
Wests beat St. George 9-8, University
tossed Randwick 19-16, and Manly
downed Eastwood 12-9. Gordon re-
tained its lead in the competition by
licking Easts 14-6 and Parramatta
had a clear run through Norths, 25-8.
* * * *
Per boot, bike, spring-cart, car,
horse and scooter, 100,000 Melbourne
natives went to their bora grounds
on Saturday and worshipped the
winter god. M.C.G., being the cen-
tral ground and scene of a battle
between Melbourne and Richmond
for a place in the “four,” drew the
biggest crowd, but it wasn’t a race,
the moth-eaten Tigers being out-
marked and out-kicked to the tune
of 14.17-9.9. Upset of the day was
at Footscray, where the all-conquer-
ing Carlton had gone for what it
thought would be a nice practice
run. It was—for Footscray. The
Bulldogs led all the way for a 9.9-7.16
win. Collingwood unhurriedly posted
15.16 to “Sowth’s? 6.16„ Geelong
had a gala score of 25.17-11.6 against
the disappointing Essendon, St.
Kilda grimly held on to its always-
beaten record with a dour 13.11 to
Hawthorn’s 14.13, and North stopped
Fitzroy, 12.9-10.12. It left Colling-
wood high an’ dry on top, Carlton
and North level for second, Fitzroy
and Melbourne third, and Geelong
knocking at the door.
* * * ♦
Having his first main bout at Leich-
hardt against Johnny Gleeson (8.5),
Ray Haggett (8.7£) was overmatched,
and Gleeson beat him in the eighth
round.


u
m
JPlPiiiiiiii is ever immune
To cold epidemics in May and June.
Neither senior nor junior should ever forget
That July and August are wild and wet.
Neither junior nor senior need ever feel doubt
When dread influenza is spreading about.
Neither senior nor junior will anguish endure
While taking Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
Be prepared for Coughs, Colds
Woods 9 Great Peppermint Cnre
LANE’S
TRAPS
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
gh
8" Jaws
Folding Springs
OBTAINABLE FROM
ALL STORES &
PASTORAL SUPPLY HOUSES
UZ.9
uret
Famous British
ENGINES
are
NOW
AVAILABLE
at
REDUCED
PRICES
For immediate delivery contact
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY. LTD.
’PHONE: MA 6311 7-11 MARKET ST., SYDNEY
rm
Write for
particulars
"SIRIUS"
MINOR
DUMPY
LEVEL
For contour level-
ling, irrigation and
drainage, etc. High-
quality instruments
for immediate de-
livery. Complete
with case and tripod,
£2B/12/-.
Also Abney Levels, Pris-
matic Compasses, Op-
tical Square, General
Survey and Drafting
Requirements.
ST., SYDNEY. 8W8631.
•an-Aid
SNOS GNV
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Cattle for North Australia.
“Outback”: Answering ques-
tions at a meeting on the Here-
ford stud property of E. R.
Reynolds, Ennisview, Oakey
(Q.), the Dutch geneticist. Dr.
Hagedoorn, said he was doubt-
ful if Herefords could be
adapted to North Australian
conditions by selecting good
doers there and inbreeding to
their standard. He thought,
however, it ought to be tried
before they began crossbreeding.
Theoretically, said Hagedoorn,
Herefords would not be adapt-
able enough. Having been bred
so long to a high state of purity,
the breed could hardly be ex-
pected to adapt itself to a new
climate. However, by using, say,
a Zebu bull and breeding the
hybrid back on to the Hereford
until it looked like a full-blooded
Hereford, and by doing it under
conditions in which the stock
had to live, they would eventu-
ally get cattle that were both
genetically pure and suited to
die conditions.
Reminded of the success
achieved with hybrids by maize-
growers, fat-lamb raisers and
poultrymen. Dr. Hagedoorn,
who had indicated that, as a
general practice, he was not in
favor of breeding from hybrids,
said the fact that hybrids were
giving better results than pure-
breds merely indicated that the
latter were not pure enough.
By crossing two breeds the weak
points in one became the strong
points in the other, and the per-
centage of bad ones was re-
duced. Taken cob by cob,
hybrid maize did not give more
maize than pure strains, but
there were not the “duds” in be-
tween, and therefore the average
was better. Success of hybrids in
fat lambs or bacon pigs would
depend on the quality of the
parent breeds. By inbreeding
and progeny-testing, those same
breeds in a few generations
could be improved to give the
same results, in which case
farmers would have in the one
breed all the virtues required.
Are Bulls Too Cheap?
“Archaps”: The Queensland
vice-president of the Aberdeen
Angus Society (W. E. Webster,
Sarum Stud, Kingaroy) contends
that the price of bulls must be
increased if breeders are to main-
tain and improve the quality of
export beef. Prices of store and
fat cattle have increased consid-
erably, but herd-bull prices have
not. Commercial breeders, says
Webster, are still looking for
cheap bulls, but this was bad
policy, as the best bull a breeder
could get was not good enough.
The studbreeder was not in the
game for what he could get out
of it. He had to be an enthusiast,
as he could get a much better
return by investing bis capital
in any other way.
To import even a decent bull
would cost at least £2OOO to
£3OOO, yet commercial men
thought they should get their
bulls at about 30gns. On present
cattle prices 50gns. would be a
reasonable price, and it would
give some encouragement to a
studbreeder to maintain his herd
at a high standard. A man with
500 to 1000 commercial breeders-
could easily give up to 200gns.
for a good stud bull, which
would pay for itself in one
season.
Webster holds that it is more
important for a bull to have a
good heart, in the right place,
than good bone ; he admitted the
need for bone, but said it was
quality, not size, which counted.
The Ayrshire.
“Onka” has the last word on
this subject: Re the debate on
dairy breeds (B. 27/4/’49) and
(B. 15/6/ ’49). Why exclude the
Ayrshire? Seeing that they were
the first breed of cattle, either
daily or beef, to come to Aus-
tralia, they should receive some
praise. Granted they might not
figure as highly as some breeds
in official test records, but what
Jersey or Guernsey can stand up
to extremes in climate or
sparseness of food as the
Ayrshire can? What breed is
anywhefe near the equal of an
Ayrshire on hilly country?
As for production, here are
some results obtained in South
Australia by Uroonda Lady
Jean: 5611 b. b.f. as a junior
two-year-old, 6661 b. as a senior
two-year-old, 7551 b. as a senior
three-year-old, 6311 b. as a junior
four-year-old. As a mature cow
she produced 6891 b. and was
holder of three all - breed
records. In New Zealand one
of the three top i -production studs
is the Maxwelton Ayrshire Stud.
And who needs reminding of
the Victorian Ayrshires, Kerlie
Park Echo and Inverurie Thistle-
down?
Footrot.
“A.M.M.”: It’s on the move
in Victoria, and the Federal
Council of the Graziers’ Associa-
tion has set up a committee to
investigate it. Footrot is divided
into two types: (1) contagious
and (2) non-contagious. Over-
grown hooves, which give un-
even treading surfaces, encourage
cracks through which the bac-
teria enter. A wet season with
a strong growth of pasture may
cause an outbreak. This may
be non-contagious, but con-
tamination of the pastures by the
contagious - type organisms
renders the sheep very suscep-
tible and so the contagious
variety is set up. Clean sheep
contacting the germ are quickly
affected. A ready source of in-
fection is from wet, muddy con-
ditions as, for instance, around
gateways or unclean yards.
To combat the disease control
must be planned and rigid. Pas-
tures kept without sheep for
about one month will be free
from infection. Other paddocks
should be set aside as hospital
paddocks, in which sheep show-
ing the slightest sign of footrot
should be isolated. Clean sheep
“Cut the tap-root and she's all ours!"
should be put through a footrot-
bath before being put into the
clean paddocks. All other sheep
should be kept in the hospital
paddock, their feet thoroughly
pared and treated either indi-
vidually or in the footbath, de-
pending on the numbers and ex-
tent of the lesions.
On some properties the bottom
of the drafting-race consists of a
concrete trough about 3in. deep.
A couple of buckets of bluestone
solution are placed in the trough
so that all sheep passing through
receive a footbath. When not
wanted, battens nailed together
to form a grating can be placed
on the bottom, and the footbath
becomes an ordinary race. Blue-
stone and formalin footbaths
both give good results. Cases
being hand-dressed should be
done daily and the sheep kept on
battens, dry feed being provided.
This keeps the feet dry and gives
the dressing a more prolonged
action.
Turkeys.
“Myrrhee”: Their feeding
differs only slightly from that of
fowls, and the poults are given
their first meal 24 to 36 hours
after leaving the shell. A good
cereal mixture fed as dry mash
in self-feeders, and one daily wet
mash with a little, tender,
chopped green-feed, will keep
the youngsters growing. At
eight-weeks-old add a little
whole wheat and oats to the diet,
with some cracked maize if
available, gradually increasing
the quantities until the birds are
six months old, by which time
they will be receiving equal
quantities of mash and grain.
A good utility mash for poults
(either wet or dry or both) can
be made from 501 b. of ground
wheat, 301 b. of ground hulled
oats, 101 b. of bran and 101 b. of
meatmeal with |lb. of salt added.
An adult ration capable of pro-
ducing top-quality birds consists
of 301 b. of bran, 501 b. of wheat
pollard, 101 b. of maizemeal or
oat pollard or barley-meal, 51b.
of meatmeal and 51b. of dried
buttermilk. If skim-milk is
available to moisten the mash
the meatmeal and buttermilk
can be dropped. Don’t make
the wet-mash wet; mix the bran
and meatmeal, moisten, then dry
off to a crumbly consistency with
the other meals. Feed chaffed
green food separately.
Pruning.
“R. Howie”: For pruning,
thinning and picking fruit, get a
high, strong and wide-based
ladder, learn to set it firmly and
then trust it. This gives two free,
hands and a confident approach.
Go to the top and work down ;
otherwise the arms are held too
high and tend to tire easily.
A tree that is pruned to a
hollow funnel shape is easiest
to work. Central limbs should
be sawn out, as they are hard to
pick from, and cause damage to
spurs on the outer limbs when
the picker reaches through. Pear-
trees especially need careful
shaping. They have a bad
tendency to grow straight up in
the middle, with most of the
fruit at the top.
When pruning, a right-hander
should work around the tree in
a clockwise direction. Keep the
secateurs sharp and well oiled.
Don’t wear baggy clothes. Eye-
strain is often severe; a wide-
brimmed hat will save head-
aches.
Planting Trees.
“Sundowner”: When laying-
out a plantation for shelter or
timber purposes observe these
points: Plant at the most favor-
able season to suit local condi-
tions. Better to plant a little too
soon than too late. Don’t handle
trees more than necessary (so
avoiding damage to the root-
system) and keep the roots
wrapped in a damp sack until
planted. If planting from tins
thoroughly saturate the soil be-
forehand. Plant on a windless,
cloudy day, after a light rain if
possible, and in the afternoon.
Don’t plant in sodden soil.
Place taproot in a vertical posi-
tion and keep stem upright.
Avoid bunching of roots, and
make sure the hole is adequate
to space all the roots.
Don’t place decomposed
organic matter around the roots.
It may cause air-pockets and
premature drying of the soil.
Replace losses as soon as pos-
sible to obviate variation in the
height and age of the plantation.
Plant in rows to assist with weed
control. In windy situations
plant against the lee-side of the
hole. Don’t put dry soil or sub-
soil in contact with roots. Work
the soil in between and around
roots. Firm it well, but don’t
rajn it.
Doings on the Downs.
“Jonah”: Operations on the
Peak Downsi sorghum project
have been given more publicity
in the Queensland Press than
almost anything else. Scenes at
the harvesting were fantastic.
Rival reporters and photo-
graphers were up at dawn, each
trying to outdo the other in get-
ting some sort of an “exclusive.”
So huge has been the Press
“build-up” that what some see
as the inevitable let-down must
be equally heavy. Press reports
have overlooked the immense
damage that has been done to
the fields by frost. Already there
are several hundred bags of
grain lying on the ground which
will never be picked up by the
harvesters. Ecstatic reports of
rain to start the crop moving
overlooked the fact that the first
rain was only sufficient to give a
50 p.c. germination. The re-
mainder of the grain sprouted in
the second rain, which came a
fortnight later. The result is that
there is now ripe grain growing
alongside unripe grain in the
same paddocks.
Sorghum is a grain which
must be harvested as soon as it
is ripe, so the loss from this
cause alone will be very high.
Some correspondents spoke of
the military aspect of the harvest-
ing operations when they saw a
jeep leading the harvesters into
the paddocks. They’d have done
better had they talked of soil-
erosion. Even at this short
time after the pasture was
ripped from the top of the soil
gully erosion is setting in. The
jeep went ahead to probe for
gullies. No precautions were
taken against erosion at the first
ploughing; officials say that
something will be done next
time. In a recent broadcast
C. J. McKeon, food-production
manager at the project, said that


Be Smart!
If you suffer from
coated tongue, pimply or
blotchy skin, headache,
biliousness or nausea
due to constipation,
wake up your sluggish
bowels with Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills. This
time - tested remedy
flushes and cleanses
the intestinal tract
thoroughly, without
griping or unpleasant
after-effects. Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills con-
tain only vegetable
ingredients; no harsh
drUgs or irritants. They
make you look and feel
better and brighter.
UK.MUHSti - |
I *Cr
I' PILLS
BUSLB...
with concrete Mocks
Conors'* blocks and bricks
or* Uw Wool building
medium when mods on a
*Bapld" machine. These
machines will make almost
•eery type ol brick or block.
ease!
SHEDS
• Six modg» ovoQabto.
• Hftnd . eeml-
automatic.
• No ramming—ao waiting
-lor mixture to »ol __ V
• Capacity 3 blocks per mte.
• Priced to suit the indiri-
dual home-builder.
SIIQS
Write (or IQnshated booklet poet free.
Hait Sc Pyne Pty. ltd.
\ Manufacturers of Concrete Machinery
63a "'Warren KA. MarHcfarflle. N.S.W. 1U441
HOMES
Now available the
“ Rapid ” concrete
fence post machine.
r At an times, and
especially In tie bath, Cuticura
Soap makes the skin delightfully
smooth and charming. Cutlcura
Soap has antiseptic proper- •
ties \vhich remove all trace(g»4t7j
of roughness and soreness*
Oire ofthe famous trio-
CiiticuraSoap,
tuent, Talcum "
», uinr- vyri
sm
ver
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N*.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
■■■
VbuKself
• • • your wool could receive
no greater attention, for A.M.L.&F. experts are at work
in your interests at every stage—valuing, lotting and
displaying your wool to the best advantage. You are
always assured of the best possible price when the
“A.M.L.&F. man’* sells
your wool!
86 Yeors in the Service of the Mon on the Land
INC. IN ENGLAND, 1863.
AM.4S
AUSTRALIAN, MERCANTILE, LAND & FINANCE COY. LTD.
4 HUGH SIKEET, SYDNEY
AND AT MELBOURNE AND BRISBANE.
Country Branches— N.S.W. : Newcastle, Wagga, Henty, Hay, Cowra,
Scone, Moree, Garah, Wee Waa, Brewarrina. Q’ld: Townsville
Charleville, St. George, Cunnamulla, Dlrranbandl. Assoc. Agents:
McPhle & Co. Pty., Ltd., Toowoomba, Oakey, Dalby and Pittsworth.
AML s f
BRANDAUEKS
PENS
Every point
guaranteed—
do npt experiment with imitations
C BRANDAUEK & CO. vO? BIRMINGHAM, ENtt
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L.
Barrere brings to rupture sufferers an
entirely new method of control, the
result of 40 years’ practice and im-
provements, proved completely suc-
cessful by i all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the
hand when placed flat upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, bold the intestine
in its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BAKRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 26f), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in Bong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £10,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BWBI3 I (3 lines). C. R. CORNWELL, Manager.
No. 2 In SHELL’S "Australian Artists” Series.
THE BIENDING OF A THOUSAND AND ONE LUBRICANTS
with a scene interpreted by Murray Griffin
Murray Griffin, now a Painting Master
at Melbourne’s National Gallery,
earned Australia’s admiration when as
a War - Artist prisoner - of - war
in Malaya for years, he sketched
arid painted a record of the life in
P.O.W. camps, using improvised
materials and working under almost
impossible conditions.
For his Shell theme, he gives a
dynamic impression of oil blending.
By the careful choice of components
which are scientifically mixed and
blended , every lubrication need of
Industry is satisfied by Shell.
Through every stage of manufacture,
trained men ensure thoroughness in
preparation, uniformity in quality, and
adherence to the highest standards.
As a result, every Shell lubricant gives
the longest safest service that science
can ensure.
Murray Griffin's dramatic painting of the above
scene will be published by Shell in full colour
as occasion offers.
You can be sure of
SHELL
SHEU.
The Shell Company ot Australia Limited (Incorporated in Great Britain)
crop rotation would be prac-
tised ; sunflower will probably
be used one year out of three.
Everyone is very quiet about
what has become of the pigs
which were to eat the grain. But
they’re bringing cattle in to eat
the stubble. A visitor coming
away from the area met a drover
with a herd. Dodging around
were Press photographers. The
drover seemed to be travelling
slowly. The visitor mentioned
this. “Yes,” said the drover.
“I’ve got to get this mob to
journey’s end exactly at two
o’clock tomorrow; not a minute
earlier or a minute later. So
I’ve got to take my time!”
That’s official efficiency for you.
Early Melons.
“W. Court”: To obtain early
melons in N.Q. the seeds must
be sown in boxes fairly early in
the winter, and the seedlings
transplanted later into the open
ground. If the boxes are set in
a warm spot, germination will
take place quickly, whereas the
seedlings might be weeks appear-
ing if the seeds were sown in
early spring in the open.
You can’t beat sandy loam
for melons, but they’ll succeed
in most soils. Wet feet gives
them wilt; lack of water kills
or gravely weakens the vines.
Horse or cow manure is best for
building up the soil beforehand.
Set the seedlings well apart in
rows, or in twos in small round
saucers in the ploughed ground.
If the whole area between the
plants can be covered with dry
grass, old chaff, horse manure,
etc., at once, it will remain loose
constantly and hold the moisture
longer.
Serrated Tussock Spread.
“Longjon”: The Nassella or
serrated tussock is well estab-
lished in several parts of
Monaro, several thousand acres
being already infested. This is
serious, and the possibility of
its spreading to valuable Table-
land grazing country is great.
This tussock is often incorrectly
referred to as Yass River
tussock, to the annoyance of
Yass people.
During May, agricultural and
stock officers, as well as repre-
sentatives of the Cooma Council
and many graziers, inspected
several infestations at Jerangle
and Anembo and tried to find
an\ efficient control. Up to the
present no control has been
found, but many local graziers
are becoming aware of the
seriousness of the position.'
Selecting Cattle-dogs.
“Booral”; Assuming a litter
of pups bred from intelligent
parents, we are to select the pup
which will be the best worker.
Those who select a big pup are
rarely satisfied. This type is
never a good worker. The
medium size with a bright head
is best. The first pups to show
alertness in head movements are
generally the most intelligent.
An active pup is desirable be-
fore a lazy one. Timid ones
are unsatisfactory; those which
are “all over you” when you
speak to them are excellent.
It is an advantage to have
older dogs with which the pup
is to work. It learns much this
way. When a pup has no
canine mentors the owner has
to teach it himself. When it
does anything really good it
should be praised and given
extra kindness. When some-
thing is wrong it should be
scolded. The? know when they
are being roused on Never
strike a pup to hurt him • an
admonitory cuff should be the
limit. A good pup knows by
the master’s tone of voice how
he stands.
Hints for the Farm.
“Billjim”: Best time to attack
green-peach aphis is during the
dormant winter months. Re-
commended spray is tar distil-
late, one to 35, or D.N.C. one to
40. Complete spraying by mid-
July.
“Chanticleer”: June and July
are the months for sowing
onions in Victoria. Best keeper
is the Australian Brown. Sow in
drills spaced 12in. apart, as thinly
as possible, later thinning to
about Sin. between plants. A
little fertiliser will not go amiss;
about loz. to the square yard of
five-one-one, super., ammonia
and potash, applied before sow-
ing. If soil is acid, a little lime
is needed; if of heavy clay, dig
in rotted stable manure or com-
post.
“Rooster”: Tone up the
rhubarb-bed while the plants
are dormant. Although there is
no actual growth, next season’s
stem buds are forming, and
early manuring will have a good
effect. Trim off all wilted
leaves and fork in remains of
previous mulchings. A little
organic manure will tone up the
soil. Give each plant about loz.
of blood-and-bone. Spread a
liberal mulch of straw or stable
manure over the crowns. Four-
or five-year-old plants should be
lifted and replanted. Watch for
crown rot,
“Sarina”: If ordinary solder,
with hydrochloric acid as a flux,
is used for securing radio wiring
(B. 25/5/’49) there’s every
chance of the acid, even though
killed, eating through the wir-
ing.
“Jock”: Best protection
against damage to the axe-
handle near the head is to tack
around it a piece of cycle tyre
or motor-tyre inner tube. This
makes a cushion against mishits.
“Ware”: To stop foxes dig-
ging under the wire-netting
round the poultry-yard dig a
deep trench and fill it up with
well-broken glass before seating
the netting in it. No fox will
try to dig into that.
“A.M.M.”: Ringworm is
caused by contagious micro-
scopic fungi. The hair becomes
brittle and breaks off. If scabs
have formed, wash with warm
water, soap and washing-soda,
and scrape off the scabs. Dab
on tincture of iodine with a
brush and repeat twice further at
five-day intervals.- Wear gloves
while doing the job.


«Km!W
■ T
2 s -
&
<§,
m
WEEK
AFTER WEEK
Week after week,
on the same day, you
will see the same people
depositing money to their
Commonwealth Savings
Bank Accounts. It may be
pounds, or perhaps a few
shillings, but it is steadily
accumulating to provide for
their future comfort and
security. They realise how
wise it is to save regularly
now so that money will
buy more when production
can meet the demand.
Money left in the pocket or
in the home is always in
danger of being lost or
stolen. Money in the
Savings Bank is safe. It
earns interest for you. It
is readily available when
you need it.
Experience the peace of
mind which comes from the
knowledge that you are
saving regularly with
an account in the
You can by arrange-
ment operate on your
Savings Account at
any of the 420
branches or 4,000
agencies throughout
the Commonwealth.
CAB
M MON WEALTH
BANK
EVERY BANKING FACILITY
IS AVAILABLE AT ALL BRANCHES
C.S.B. 29-82
Nu-METAL
SAVES
ENGINE
REBORE
NEW
RINGS
Just pour RE-NU Liquid NU-METAL
through plug holes. NU-METAL will re-
condition your motor while you drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles, and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL has been proved and
tested by over 100,000 users since 1934,
many owners having used NU-METAL
three and four times in the same engine.
NU-METAL comes to you in a separ-
ate tube for each cylinder, thus eliminat-
ing guess work. Municipal Councils,
Engineers, etc., use NU-METAL. Treatment
costs for 1, 4. 6, 8 cylinders, 10/6, 30/-,
37/6, 45/-. Call, write, or phone MA7250.
Mail Orders post free. C.O.D.’s phis
Postal Charges.
QRDER FORM
Please forward me by return NU-
METAL to treat a Cylinder Engine.
I enclose Cheque—P.N.
Or please send me illustrated Folder
describing action of NU-METAL.
Name
Address.
, B. 6/7/’49
BRISTOL TRADING COMPANY
Ist Floor, Bristol House,
147 Elisabeth Street, Sydney. MA 7258.
fd
MEMORISE
WITH EASE
Pass Examinations.
Speak Without Notes.
Grip Lodge Ritual.
Send stamp for booklet.
Rev. W. Rowlands
12 Younger Grove,
Caulfield, S.E. 8, Vic.
an
m
0
m
ALL KINDS OF
FISHING TACKLE!
For river, beach and deep
sea fishermen. English and
French NYLON LINES...
hunting knives . . . smokers’
requisites. Write for new
fishing catalogue, now avail-
able.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 George St., Sydney.
Phone M 6201.
JauceiMt/i a Jew'd.
* ii fl A
-N*
§2
V5-SS>'
\
r jv
'' S>J
KS
\SSP
r*
t’® —51
v 7
Matured like
Old Wine
which Imparts
}**
Flavour*.'
■,
SI
%
lli
m
mm
LEA & PERRINS SAUCE
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“Young man, economics and ac-
-jnjns saJtnbaj ‘ajnnpciS Xoutjunoo
day morning work, Mosman.”
—Suburban paper.
Something he can do on his
head.
■J* 4*
“There is a tribunal to deal with
difficulties and disputes that arise in
the coal industry—the Cold Industry
Tribunal set up by joint legislation.”
—Sydney ‘‘Sunday Sun.”
It certainly leaves us that way.
“One of the disappointments was
Chilperic, who, after being fairly well
placed at the half-mile, weakend.”
—Sydney ‘‘Sun.”
No doubt he wanted double
time.
*l*
“The ‘Labor’ party is not whipping
Max Falstein (Watson) any more.”
—News item.
To Maxie this is a matter of
relatively little import.
"If you’re thinking of marrying the
girl, look at her legs.”
—-Sunday paper.
See if there are two good
reasons to support her,
“Said Chifley to the coalminers;
‘Use the tribunal or you may lose
it.’ ”
In other words, “Take yer
pick.”
•b
“Wanted, a daily help for golf.”
—“ Advertiser: f>
Able to drive an advantage.
•b 4*
“Help, man or woman, temporary
poss. of permanency, required by
school, out of school hours.”
—"S. M. Herald.’’
Should be member of non-
unionists’ union.
■J*
“What can a wife do when her
husband flirts openly?”
—lnquirer in woman’s paper.
Close her eyes and carry on?
4*
“Take my advice, don’t marry a
redhead.” — Correspondent in Sydney
“D.T.”
Lest the gilt soon wear off
the ginger-bred.
The puzzled poet scratched his
head —
"Give me a rhyme for pint,” he
said.
After he’d found I knew of
none —
"Give me,” he urged, "the cash
for one.”
Brian Bureau.
•J* 4*
“Always have a good light when
making up.”— Woman’s paper.
So you can see what’s going
on.
Keeping Them Up to
Scratch.
“Russia is opposed on aesthetic and
moral grounds to the practice of
sailors having the names of the
‘ladies of their choice’ tattooed on
their chests.”
Sydney "Daily Telegraph.”
What causes Uncle Joe alarm
If any sailor lad displays
Engraved on hairy chest or arm
The luscious loves of other
days?
Perhaps it grieves his tender
heart
To see how craftsmen can
distort
In bourgeois lands with modern
art
The wife that’s found in every
port.
I rather think it’s otherwise
And that he views as grievous
sin
The letting-in of other dyes
Than red beneath a sailor’s
skin.
D.H.E.
As She Is Spoke.
“A flabbergasted Danish audience
watched ‘Hamlet’ produced Holly-
wood-style at Elsinore Castle when
the Virginia State Theatre, invited to
follow in the footsteps of Olivier and
Gielgud, put on the play in its natural
setting. The stage-manager directed
sound and effects from the audience
through a hand-microphone, the ghost
was represented by a statue with a
loudspeaker voice and a flashing
green light, and shots were fired at
intervals to give ‘tenseness.’ ”
The script was streamlined for
modern audiences by A 1 Finkel-
baum, Manny Mczckwicz and
Toni O’Flaherty. Pressure of
space unfortunately precludes
our reproducing more than a
portion of it.
*•* * *
Hamlet (gloomily): Ar, all
dames are screwy.
Ophelia: Say, you shootin’
off your pan that I’m nuts?
Ham.: Okay by me, babe,
you are nuts!
Stage Manager (from audi-
ence, tearing his hair): For
General H. Jackson’s sake, will
some goof sock me over the
bean with a baseball bat for
prodoocin’ this play with a pair
o’ hams like them? Say, Ham.,
“You don't need an extra blanket."
kain’t you wake up that this
Shake-speare guy wouldn’t ’a’
used the woid “nuts.” Look at
your script, kain’t y’—the proper
woid’s “bats.”
Ham.: Okay, okay. You kin
let your lamps spring back into
their sockets again, but, anyway,
you’re bats, Felie, and so’s
your old man.
Enter Polonius.
Pol.: Howdy, folks. Who
said who’s bats?
Ham. (even more gloomily);
Bat me no bats.
Pol. : Have it your own way,
sucker, I’m lookin’ for two
guys name o’ Rosencrantz and
Guildenstern seen ’em
moochin’ around this burg any?
Ham.: A pox on ’em!
They’re at the corner drug-
store gettin’ see-gars or banana-
splits. What’s cookin’?
Pol. : They’re hoppin’ a
Clipper to England and they
want you to tag along. Be a
great trip. Ham. —take in the
West End shows, the night spots,
baccarat, shootin’ craps, simply
swim in highballs, Manhattans
and corn hooch, strip-tease
dames laid on and wind up with
a spot of State business —you
know, big-time stuff, sign on the
dotted line an’ then some. It’ll
sure be a wow.
Ham.; Uh-huh. I’ll chew it
over. B-r-r. It gets mighty
fresh. The matin gins to pale
his ineffectual fire.
Stage Man. (leaping on his
hat): You goldurned idjit! You
don’t pronounce it like the stuff
y’ make cocktails with. The
woid’s “ ’gin,’ ‘short for “begin”
—you know, “Begin the Be-
guine.”
Ham. : Okay, okay. .Keep the
hair on your chest, Butch. The
stars
Stage Man. (furiously chew-
'ing cigar): Hell, whadda y’
know! The dodgasted ape’s
gone an’ snapped the light-
switch on! Say! Are you that
ignorant you don’t know these
furriners didn’t have electricity
in them days? You’re supposed
to light the gas! Go on, Polly
—scram! You don’t come in
now till the arras scene in the
queen’s bedroom where you get
yours with a horse-pistol.
Exeunt All But Hamlet.
Ham.: To be, or not. To
snuff it, or to snooze? Sure,
that’s the set-up. To bump
yourself off pat, or stick it put,
hopin’ that trumps turn up, or
that you pull the middle to a
straight, or “peek” and find
he’s bluffin’ on a pair? Yeah!
Who’d put up with chisellers
around, or corny saps, or tough
standover guys who aim to
prise y’ from your hard-earned
dough, or these gazobs who
tell the little woman they eyed
you carting round your fancy
blonde? Nerts! The one thing
stops a guy from jumpin’ from
off the fortieth floor o’ the Em-
pire State is that the life-assur-
ance co. may not cough up.
And that’s the hell of it. To
snooze, to snuff. So what!
Ain’t life a busted flush?
Enter Ophelia.
Ham. : What, again? You
for the water-lilies, sister.
Scram! ( Exit Ophelia).
Enter Laertes With Sawn-
off Shotgun.
Laer. : Grab your gat. Prince,
and we’ll shoot it out. And
you’re going to be fuller of
holes than a colander.
Ham. : Sez you! Wait till I
get a couple of magazines.
Laer. : This ain’t no time for
reading.
Ham. : Woids! Woi d s !
Woids! There are more things
in Brooklyn and the Bronx,
Horatio, than you’d dream of
with a whiff of marihuana.
Laer. : Oh, wise guy, eh?
Well, have at you! The heck
of jt! The trigger’s jammed!
Ham.: Here’s where you get
the woiks, pal. ( Shoots. Laertes
falls).
That fell F. 8.1. man. Death,
Is strict in his arrest. Send
for the D.A.!
* * ♦ *
Asked afterwards by the stage
manager what he thought of it,
one Dane said he didn’t think
Shakspeare would have pro-
duced it like that.
“Shake-speare! ” exclaimed
the s.m. “He was only the guy
that wrote it. What would an
old fossil like him know about
prodoocin’?”
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2£d. per Une.
Trust or Control
Trust—faith in the other fellow—and
the sanguine expectation that at least 95
per cent, of the community is basically
honest is the foundation on which any
body, commercial, politic or civil, is
based. Any indication that trust is lack-
ing breeds an antagonistic reaction which
eventually kicks back on the one who
cuts off the supply.
Government by control is government
by lack of trust. It says, in effect,
“Although you have trusted us with a
three-year mandate we don’t trust you any
further than Doc. Evatt could travel on
foot.” The natural reaction to that,
evidenced by the general tenor of every-
day life, is that the public, irked by
puerile controls, is being forced into a
state of mind where “beating the Gov-
ernment” is not anti-social but a legiti-
mate sport.
During the war we accepted shortages,
inconveniences, “Dedman” suits and even
the killing of Santa Claus as essential
controls for an all-out effort. We
allowed the Government to treat us like
12-year-old schoolchildren because we
knew that it was to gome extent at least
necessary to protect the 95 per cent,
honest people from the depredations of
the five per cent, dishonest. With the
passing of the war “Labor’’ still retains
the controls, wielding them with gusto
and implying in general that the average
citizen has not fixe intelligence to con-
trol his own life and ways of living.
Redundant and unnecessary controls
have bred a wretched state of mind.
Shopkeepers who keep “short-supply”
goods for their best customers; tobac-
conists who display expensive English
brands and have the Australian “mak-
ings” under the counter; the tout who
knows a man who can get that extra
pound of butter at a price; key-money
for flats; open go for any house-shark
who can find a mug with £3OOO in black-
market money—all these have become
accepted items in our daily life. To cheat,
lie and even steal, so long as the victim
is the Government or a Government
regulation, is regarded as no more a sin
than buying a State-lottery ticket.
Mr. Chifley would do well to con-
template the chaos which existed in
America when Federal control said to
the people of the U.S.A.: “You are all
teetotallers!” Racketeering, a violent
crime wave, enough social damage to
set back a nation’s morals for a decade
and the scorn of the civilised world was
the reward of the Volstead Act. —
Video (Q.).
Machinery Shortage and Settlement
Members of the Cereal Committee of
N.S.W. Graziers’ Association are con-
cerned about the shortage of agricul-
tural machinery and its effect in prevent-
ing soldier-settlers from getting a good
start on their blocks and taking ad-
vantage of maximum production while
the price of land products is still high.
S. Carberry, of Narrabri, a successful
1914*18 soldier-settler, chairman of the
committee, says it might be three years
before the ex-servicemen get all the
machinery, they need.
Carberry gives the following figures to
demonstrate how alarming the position
really is; At Narrabri 96 headers are on
order, but only eight have been de-
livered ;at Edgeroi 11 ordered, only two
delivered; and Gunnedah 105 ordered,
18 delivered.— He-ne (N.S.W.).
Compulsory T.B. Tests
Tasmania might be starting a real
offensive against t.b. (B. 14/4/’49), but
it is probably the most revolutionary
measure dealing with the liberty of the
subject ever passed by an Australian
Parliament. Every member of the com-
munity will be affected by the legislation,
which Senator McKenna aims to have
provided in every State. Some hundreds,
and when the law applies to all of Aus-
tralia some thousands, of unsuspecting
individuals will be suddenly confronted
with the startling information that they
are suffering from the disease.
X-ray tests carried out last year in
Tassie revealed that the average incidence
of the disease was 1.3 per 1000. Those
figures are based on voluntary examina-
tions : # when . compulsory tests of the
whole population are made the average
will show a marked increase.
When enough accommodation is avail-
able sufferers will be forced into sana-
toria for any period “not exceeding three
years.” At first the sufferer will be
“sentenced” to six months. But if neces-
sary at the end of that time he may re-
ceive another sentence of six months
and so on until the total is three years.
It would seem that, if the scheme is to
work according to plan (to wipe out the
disease in 20 years), those people not
cured in three years and still in an infec-
tious condition would need to be forced
to spend their lives in isolation.
Tasmania is starting a real offensive
against t.b. Some individuals are bound
to be hurt, but the big majority, and
future generations, will have a chance of
freedom from the disease. In what other
way can we free ourselves of it? —
Blackie (Tas.).
Migration
I notice that Cardinal Gilroy has
said that, in spite of the density of popu-
lation in Japan, individual Japs express
little desire to emigrate. That could be as
truly said of any race—few men kiss the
land of their* birth goodbye without real
cause. Eastern races particularly are un-
enthusiastic emigrants; by no stretch of
the Oriental imagination do distant fields
look greener than their own.
But the Occidental outlook is less
apathetic. Englishmen in their thousands
have gone or are going to the Dominions
mainly because they fear the future at
home, and look to the younger countries
to provide greater opportunities for them-
selves and their families. The so-called
spirit of adventure or the “hands-across-
the-sea” nonsense seldom influences the
individual’s decision, although propa-
ganda originating in a country seeking
immigrants certainly attracts a small per-
centage.
Similarly, but to a greater degree,
thousands in Europe and the Balkans are
as eager to shake the dust of their native
lands from their shoes, but that urge to
uproot themselves is almost unknown
among people of virile countries such as
Switzerland, Sweden, Norway, Denmark
and even Spain. Why? Because there’s
no place like home while home remains
tenable.
Density of population itself never has
driven and never will drive people in large
numbers to foreign lands; war, persecu-
tion, economic struggle or insecurity and
kindred fears are always the directing
forces behind such drifts. —P. O. M. C.
(N.S.W.).
Municipal Rates
“Waddlin’ Willie” is not alone in his
complaint that little is received in return
for rates (B. 1/6/’49), yet few ratepayers
trouble to study the published statement
of accounts —available in Victoria for
one shilling—to learn how their money
is spent.
In “W.W.’s” own City of Camberwell,
where the expenditure is typical of that
in almost any other Australian city
municipality, roughly 20 p.c. of the total
is spent on maintenance of roads, streets
and drains. Council properties absorb
17 p.c., partly offset by receipts from
bowling-greens, tennis-courts, swimming-
pool, etc., although parks and gardens
give no such return.
Loan repayments and interest account
for 15 p.c. and another 13 p.c. is spent on
“health services.” This includes —in addi-
tion to “W.W.’s” garbage service—sub-
stantial amounts for maintenance and im-
provements to Baby Health Centres, and
a large contribution towards the upkeep
of the Fairfield Infectious Diseases Hos-
pital, where any city infectious case may
be treated. Administration (including
payroll tax of £2OOO a year) takes 12i
p.c., plant upkeep another 5 p.c., and
grants to libraries, charities, sporting
bodies and miscellaneous items account
for the remainder.
Thus we find that the average suburban
ratepayer may travel to his home along
a well-formed, -drained and -lighted
street; enjoy his Saturday recreation on
a subsidised sports-ground or hear his
local member in an adequate Town Hall.
Furthermore, his wife may benefit from
Baby Health Centre advice and his
children receive tuition from pre-school
kinders., as well as protection by im-
munisation against infectious diseases —
all council services taken for granted by
ratepayers.— Carlyle (Vic.).
Queensland Fishing
“Dee” is off the track when he says
(B. 15/6/’49) that Princess Charlotte
Bay could keep 60 fishing smacks and
their crews fully and profitably employed.
“Fully,” yes, but the “profitably” needs
qualification.
The fish would have to be sold and
that would hot be easy in the north.
Northerners are fussy about the fish they
eat, and mullet—-the most plentiful fish
in the bay—is regarded as suitable for
bait only. The mullet would have to be
taken to Brisbane, the nearest place of
any consequence where the fish is con-
sidered fit for human consumption, and
so would trevally. Barramundi and
grunter are exceptions, both being classed
as “good eating.” Salmon and garfish are
in the same category as mullet.
The survey to which “Dee” refers is
not a good guide, It was carried out by
the Queensland Government Ichthyo-
logist and two officers of the C.5.1.R.,
who, although outstanding men in their
spheres, are neither fishermen nor
sailors. Nor did they have a man familiar
with the area in their company. The
gear with which they were equipped
makes a pathetic list: Three nets (one
400 yards of mesh, and one 180
yards and another 150 yards of l|in.),
one small otter trawl and a few cray-
pots. They trailed for pelagic fish—king
(mackerel), tuna, bonito, trevally, marlin,
etc. —with hemp clothes-lines and monel
metal spinners; they fished the reefs
using chopped garfish as bait.
One outcome of the survey, however,
is the suggestion by a Cairns fisherman
that a base should be set up on Flinders
Island, where fresh water is "obtainable,
with an ice-plant and a processing factory’
A ship with ,150 to 200 tons refrigeration
capacity could carry the fish to capital
cities and return with supplies. The base
would supply fishing-boats (privately-
owned) with ice and rations at cost price
thus saving them the 200-mile trip to
Cairns to dispose of their catches and
take on fresh supplies. The base plant
would store fish from the boats and load
it on to the conveyor ship, thus doing
away with hold-ups at either end of the
run. On these lines the shallow water as
well as the reef could be exploited.
Should that plan come to anything
Sydney and Melbourne would be able to
buy reef fish at approximately twopence
per pound dearer than in Townsville.—
Cadaagi (Q.).
Population
Colin Clark’s claim that Australia’s
maximum population will be about 25
million (B. 25/5/’49) is hard to stomach.
Japan and Italy could be comfortably
fitted into N. S. Wales, yet between them
they have over 100 million people as
against only about eight million for the
whole of Australia. Neither is notably
fertile, and in both extensive mountain
areas reduce the proportion of farming
land, and neither race is lacking in virility.
Each has won high reputation in artistic
achievement —a sure proof of national
vitality.
These two lands are not isolated ex-
amples. Another striking instance is
Belgian Flanders, of which R. C, K.
Ensor says in his Belgium :
Despite a long series of wars and calami-
ties it remains a wonderful triumph of
human industry over nature. The sandy
soil is excessively barren. Brief neglect
makes it speedily revert to desert. Yet the
Flemings have made it one of the most
populous, most « intensely-cultivated and
most productive centres of the entire world.
That area of less than three thousand
square miles maintains, in reasonable
comfort, one of the thickest populations
in Europe. Though it has considerable
manufactures, agriculture is its most im-
portant industry. Like Japan and Italy,
Flanders has won fame in the arts.
There must be several hundreds of
thousands of square miles in Australia
that are naturally more fertile than the
Flanders Plain.— Castlereagh (N.S.W.).
Redistribution
The wrangle in the McGirr Labor
party over the redistribution was the first
time its country wing had jacked-up on
a country versus city issue. Councils in
country towns are wrath that the Sydney-
Newcastle ‘bloc gets nine out of every
10 new houses built in N. S. Wales.
Country youth is drifting to the metro-
polis, and local industries cannot get
enough labor because of the housing
shortage. Apparently it has never occurred
to country Labor members to demand
in the name of justice that 50 per cent,
of the Government’s housing be erected
in the country. But when their jobs
worth £1375 a year plus gold pass were
at stake they fought like fighting cocks.
An A.B.C. news service put over that
the country would lose one seat in the
redistribution. At present the Newcastle-
Maitland zone has five seats with an
average of 26,000 electors, and the coun-
try 42 seats of about 15,000 voters. Under
the new plan Newcastle and country
seats are to have 17,000 apiece. This
means three country seats will lapse in
order to create three new ones in the
Newcastle-Maitland area. Another farm-
ing seat is also likely to be lost to the
Nepean-Hawkesbury area. As in the
Federal redistribution, State electorate
boundaries. will be adjusted at the ex-
pense of the Country party.—K. Me.
(N.S.W.).
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 24
Across.
I—Metal1 —Metal that urges Long John to
get a move on. (11)
6 Swine cast the seed. (3)
7 Battle between the Australian
capital and Mr. Idriess? (6)
8— It was a feature of some war-time
raids during which tea fell. (7)
10 —Anchor rope telephones a silk-
hat. (11)
12 — Grassland. (3)
13— Fruitless to be so like Narcissus.
(4)
14— Beastly fellow and I joined the
Turkish judge. (4)
16—Nothing in the apartment of a
decorated vehicle in a procession.
(5)
19 — Faithful Myrna is joined by
Capone. (5)
20 — Betting machine. (4)
22 — Political renegades upset an out-
standing actor. (4)
23 — The present is won back. (3)
25 —Father sun-god with any mashed
substance before I turn an alter-
native Japanese island. (11)
27 — They know South Australia is
matched against insects. (7)
28 — Shredded king swallowed cop-
pers. (6)
(cryptic type.)
(.Solution in next issue.)
29 Color. (3)
30 — Finn gets the fruit of an Ameri-
can shrub. (11)
Down.
1 — Jail a competitor with a broken
net having a valence of four. (12)
2 Degree of concentration in X
and X with it, but why finish?
(9)
3 Such speed in interlacements. (5)
4 Scene with the jester of “The
Yeoman of the Guard.” (9)
5 Mob a “Desert Song” Arab and
a Swiss composer. (8)
6 Holy fish of metal. (5)
9—A Romany steed for a holiday.
(6, 6)
11 —Involuntary muscular twitch. (3)
15 —He provides plaints on paints,
etc. (3, 6)
17 — Not home with the healthier
clothier. (9)
18— It is careless to strike with haste.
(8)
21 —Running bird. (3)
24—We swallow Henry and there is
a lot of blubber about it. (5)
26—Underwood to rub hard. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 23.


Socialism
means
ONE BOSS
..the Government
OAn all - powerful 9 centralised Government
would he set up in Canberra.
H State Governments —the only bodies which
can challenge dictatorial Federal policies —
would be destroyed.
instead of Governments being the servants
of the people 9 the people would become serfs
of the Government.
£ Choice of a career 9 a job 9 a place to live 9 even
of the hind of education we want for our
children—these democratic rights would pass
out of our hands.
Under Socialism —the form of Government the Chifley
administration is trying to introduce —these things would,
happen:
GIVE FINANCIAL SUPPORT TO THE LIBERAL PARTY
,
send your contribution to State Headquarters.
t,
because there
would be only ONE BOSS
... the Government
The issue confronting Australians this year
is a vital one. For each of us, it is this: Do
I want to place myself at the mercy of an
all-powerful State —which will be able to
regulate every part of my life——or do I want
to retain my freedom to live as an
individual?
There tan be only one answer
&OCJ*
4
R, G. MENZIES ,
PARLIAMENT HOUSE , CANBERRA.
FLI9A-4#
