

GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAC
A PRODUCT OF THE
/ 4 '*
srtert
lOUSE OF SEPPELT
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 70 —No. 3610
Wednesday, April 20, 1949
Price 6<L
Registered at the General. Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelths
LONDON'S REGENT STREET, THE HUB OF THE FASHION UNIVERSE
VISITORS to London are impressed by the magnificent length and breadth
of Regent Street, which is one of the main thoroughfares in the West End.
It is one mile in length and begins on the south at Waterloo Place, crosses
Piccadilly Circus and Oxford Circus and ends on the north at Langham
Place. The street was designed by that great architect John Nash, and was
built during the years 1813-26 to link Carlton House, the home of the Prince
Regent, with Regents Park, and to separate the fashionable West End from
its shabbier neighbor, Soho. By 1820 the splendid sweeping quadrant from
Piccadilly Circus was built with its covered colonnades, and six years'later
the street was completed. From its earliest days Regent Street was a centre
of fashion. Its central position in London’s gayest quarter made it the
inevitable haunt of Londoners, of country cousins and visitors from abroad,
and it attracted the famous of each generation.
Here young Mr. Disraeli, dandiest of the dandies, could be seen taking
the air, and it was here that Dickens and Thackeray had every opportunity
to study the foibles of the fashionable who thronged the colonnades. The
hackney coach and phaetons rattled up and down. Soon the horse omnibus
appeared, to be followed by Mr. Joseph Hansom’s new cab, which plied for
hire in 1836.
It was from the ’eighties onwards that Regent Street became really famous
for its celebrities, who visited it night after night. A small cafe had been
opened in Glasshouse Street behind Regent Street in 1865. It grew into the
famous Cate Royal. Royalty, the great in art and literature, the leaders of
fashion, the law, stage and the racecourse dined there. Edward VII was a
frequent visitor, the present George VI and the Duke of Windsor have dined
at the Cate Royal, so has the lovely Lily Langtry and Marie Lloyd, who
on one occasion created a sensation by chasing the head waiter around the
Grill Room flourishing a hatpin, Oscar Wilde, Caruso, Patti, Rudyard Kipling,
Augustus John, G. K. Chesterton —the list of the famous is unending. And
‘ still today the Cate Royal and the other fine restaurants in Regent Street
attract the famous and .hose who come to see the famous. But Regent Street
is essentially a street of shops, and is noted for its fashionable establishments.
By 1924 the whole of the famous old quadrant had begun to disappear,
and in 1926, a hundred years after Nash’s great work was finished, the new
Regent Street, as shown above, appeared—a thoroughfare worthy of its
predecessor, containing some of the finest stores in Europs, and still the
centre of fashion.


Learn
map™
at HOMF
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised*in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. UO ..
AGE
The Red Page
HUGH McCRAE.
Hug(i McCrae’s reminiscences of our
early iVlelbourne days in his Story-Book
Only (Red Page 6/4/’49) arrive with a
special nostalgic charm to me, for they
revive memories of Hugh himself, and
it would require his own vivid and un-
expected turns of phrase to define the
effect of his personality as it burst on our
studio group of that era: an eruption
into it of exuberant vitality, an insatiable
gusto for the adventure of life, in a key
of tremendous laughter.
That laugh of his—a gift. So were his
robust body and astonishing good looks:
inherited from that glamorous lady
Georgiana through his father, George
Gordon McCrae, who was one of the
handsomest old men I ever met. And
the most gracious and courteous. That
type of gentleman has vanished from a
crude, proletarian earth. Hugh has given
us a true glimpse of him in that admirable
section of Story-Book Only, “My Father
and My Father’s Friends.”
Those good looks of Hugh’s were not
merely a grace bestowed by a facial canon
of form, which any actor may have, but
the stamp of an aristocratic genesis, if
one accepts the word aristocratic to mean
what the Greeks meant when they used
the word Olympian as an antithesis to the
term Earth-born. Reverting to a memory
of later days, I remember standing with
J. F. Archibald in George-street when we
saw Hugh striding past on the opposite
pavement, and Archie exclaimed “By
George, doesn’t McCrae look a poet!
He looks like his own poetry.”
I must add a characteristic gesture of
Hugh’s on that occasion in relation to his
poetry. We hailed him and asked him to
come with us to lunch, but he excused
himself from that invitation and was turn-
ing away when I chanced to say “Have
you been writing any new stuff lately,
Hughie?” ; at which he abruptly pulled
a wad of MS. from his pocket and said
“Yes, I’ve got some of it here.”
Glancing through the poetry in his ex-
quisitely neat script, I said “There’s
enough here to make a book. Why not
offer them to George Robertson?”
“Do what you like with the damned
things,” he said, and strode off, leaving in
my hands the MS. of the Columbine series
of poems, later to be published by George
Robertson, who generously refused to
take anything from the work save the
expense of producing it.
I think I can best define the quality of
Hugh’s personality and appearance by the
fact (hat from his very first arrival among
us we accepted him, not only as a rare
and remarkable being, but as a rare and
remarkable poet. And that before we had
read any of his poetry.
I doubt if he had written any at that
time. Certainly, he hadn’t published any.
Where, then, did that assurance come
from? I admit I get infernally muddled
over dates, but it was certainly while I
had a room in the Premier Permanent
Buildings, Collins-street, that I recall
Hughie McLean, an art student of our
group, announcing to me, “Mac’s a great
poet. A great poet.”
I never doubted it, not on the authority
of Hughie McLean, but by an emanation
from McCrae himself, which allows me
to assume that poetry has its special aura,
and one may sense a poet before the
arrival of his poetry. McCrae took over*
my room at the Premier Permanent when
I was ejected from it for arrears of rent,
and, after a wildly hilarious interlude there
as a member of our group, vanished into
the country. I’m pretty sure it was about
that time that I read “We Dreamed” in
MS., and a startling first poem that was
to come from any poet. Hugh, like
Burns, stepped at one stride into a perfect
control of his metier. There was no
modest little volume of first poems hint-
ing at the quality to come. Satyrs and
Sunlight, one might say, was produced by
a single generic burst of inspiration.
But none of us did any work in those
early student days, which were mainly a
frolic of booze and girls and that
eminently satisfactory illusion of youth
that talk about work absolves one from
the labor of producing it. It was marriage,
Hugh’s and mine, which truncated that
casual and essential prelude to grappling
with the responsibilities of life, spiritual
and mundane. But the intimacy between
us begotten then has endured ever since,
and, though there may be one or two
others dawdling before taking 'a final
curtain, we are now almost the only sur-
vivors of that epoch, which might be
called Australia’s initial performance in
the arts.
But this brief paper, called into being
by Hugh’s reminiscence of that perform-
ance, is not concerned with the contri-
bution of his poetry to it, but the contri-
bution of his unique personality to us.
And his future biographers are going* to
have a devil of a job trying to make a
reconstruction of that personality. Only
Boswell could recreate a posthumous
Hugh McCrae. That freakish and ex-
uberant fancy which is the peculiar charm
of his prose is really an intrinsic quality
of Hugh himself, expressed by an irre-
pressible surge of humor within him at
the insensately funny side of life’s pon-
derosities. 1 have seen many a prosaically-
minded victim of Hugh’s art of fantasy
confounded to decide whether he is seeing
or hearing some, remarkable instance of
human behavior or is being made the
victim of a fabrication. I have been
frequently taken in by it myself—for the
moment, anyhow. A certain movement
of his broad shoulders, indicating internal
laughter, gives one the hint that an irre-
sponsible fancy has taken a pull at one’s
leg, such is his art of recounting some
manifest absurdity with the air of the
strictest integrity.*
I recall especially some of the tricks
he played on poor Harry Garlick in those
early days when Hugh and I shared a
house together at Lavender Bay. Harry
was a minor artist of that era, and a con-
tributor to The Bulletin of joke-blocks
which had to do mainly with monkeys
and carthorses —themes which he re-
garded as if he had taken out patent
rights on them, so that to draw a monkey
or a carthorse was to be denounced by
Harry as one who had illegally tampered
with his property. He lodged at a dismal
little old stone house half-way up the
McMahon Point steps. It bore the title
of Asrahma on its front-gate, to which
Harry’s lugubrious, lantern-jawed face
peering over the gate inspired us to add
the caption “Oh woe is me.” He used to 1
drift round to our place of an evening,
and thereby constitute himself the perfect
subject for Hugh’s art. I wish I dared
recount some astounding instances in the
love-life of old ladies as recounted by
Hugh to Harry, which so dazed him that
1 recall him saying helplessly, “But is
that really a fact, Mac?’,’ and being
assured in the most trenchant terms that
it was, on Hugh’s personal observation
and experience.
I grieve for the unrecorded exploita-
tion of Hugh’s ebullient sense of humor
at the expense of a fatuously solemn
world, which will be lost to the delecta-
tion of posterity unless some furtive Bos-
well has made a note of it. Instances of
it would make a work as diverting as his
Story-Book Only.
What of those pranks of his when he
was in the Melbourne Censor’s Office
during World War I, when he frequently
drove those asses of censors into a frenzy
of spy-detection by ringing up the office
in a Teutonic accent with a request for
permission to send an allegedly innocu-
ous package out of the country uncen-
sored, or sent them slinking at midnight
to Prince’s Bridge to an assignation made
by telephone with a mysterious lady who
would be identified as wearing a red rose
in her hair and carrying an arum-lily in
her left hand, and who had information
to impart in the best spirit of William
Le Queux or Phillips Oppenheim? What
of his stagecraft over Mick Paul’s dis-
covery of a glass eye in a pie in a cele-
brated Sydney eating-house? What of
But this is to encroach on subject-
matter which is Hugh’s exclusive pro-
perty ; and only he could, and should,
record it. Even if he has handled the
notabilities of his own and his father’s
generations, he is just as effective when
dealing with nonentities, so be it that
they have some engaging idiosyncratic
aspect or absurdity to be illuminated by
one of his exotic turns of phrase. And
the charm of his prose is that it owes
nothing to conscious stylism, but slips off
his pen as naturally as an act of breath-
ing. When entertainment value is added
to high quality of style in a prose work,
it gives us all that a work of art can
give.
It is a gratuitous generosity when a
poet adds .prose to his poetry. And the
poetry of Hugh McCrae has one especial
claim on our gratitude and reverence. It
is the first poetry written in this country
which has the quality we call “major.”
McCrae is the harbinger of that renais-
sance in poetry which is an established
reality in Australia today.
And here the reflection is forced on me
that no country has ever so little deserved
the gift of poetry as Australia. Anger
has burned in me many times over the
long years in which McCrae’s poetry has
been offered to this public, with only the
barest return in appreciation or money
to the poet himself. His value is fully
understood today ; at least by such in-
telligent minority as we possess. But that
minority is just as flabbily inert today in
recognising and rewarding the poets now
functioning as it was when McCrae pro-
duced his Satyrs and Sunlight. There
are only two centres of culture in this
country where poetry of high quality is
affirmed; The Bulletin and the publish-
ing house of Angus and Robertson. The
general neglect is a staggering indictment
of the low mental content not only of the
public at large, but also of that section
we ironically define as our intelligent
minority.
I don’t wonder that Hugh McCrae has
made laughter and humor his surface
defence against the black depressions and
disgusts which must be the other side of
any vision of life based in lyricism, pas-
sion, and an enduring love for beauty,
and offered to a generation as morally
inert as so many mudfish. We all wear
a mask. We may glimpse something of
what Hugh McCrae’s has hidden by the
lighthearted spirit which emanates from
the prose of his Story-Book Only.
NORMAN LINDSAY
A Poet of Gallipoli.
Leon Gellert published his Songs of a
Campaign in 1917. Harley Matthews
published his song of the same campaign
under the appropriate title of Vintage in
1938.
It is a curious comment on literary
method that a considerable part of Gel-
lert’s poetry, published during the war
itself, should be rhetorical, reflective,
epigrammatic, and in a sense remote;
whereas Matthews’s poetry, published 21
years later, gives the impression of having
been dictated to a running stenographer
as they went over the side at Gallipoli
and up that dreadful hill:
Grinding of keels. Shouts “Over with
you!” The swill
Of water round your body. Your feet jarred
Against stones. Stumblings. Breaths com-
ing hard,
This pack pushing you down. Blank-
ness....
Half-afloat
A dead sailor lay sprawled upon the beach.
But no rest for us. On. On. In a cleft
Between the hills the wounded lay or sat.
Some cheered. But most were still. “Give
it to them
For us,” a gash that was a mouth once
wailed.
You are with him all the way in this
rhythm that gasps and splutters, and
there is that unforgettable sailor, photo-
graphed in a moment on the excited
mind.
Narrative poetry is rare in English,
and our battle-narratives are mostly
ballads ; Tennyson’s story of the Revenge
is a ballad ; Chesterton’s Lepanto is a
glorified ballad. Most readers who give
Byron’s “Don Juan” away after the lovely
Haidee affair may be surprised, as I was
recently, to find Juan taking part in a
superb battle-narrative, a mixture of farce
and splendor of which Byron alone had
the secret, and a disillusioned' statement
of the facts of war which anticipates in
verse and by a hundred years the prose
war-books of the 1920’5. Apart from
this, Harley Matthews’s Vintage is the
only comparatively modern battle-narra-
tive in verse I know of; and the only
verse narrative I have seen about the
1914-18 war.
There are three main episodes, with a
prelude and a few lyrics. In the Prelude,
“The Day Before,” we see the transports
taking the soldiers to Gallipoli. The first
episode, “Two Brothers,” is a description
of the landing and the first day’s fighting.
The second episode, “True Patriot,” is
the story of a corporal who insisted on
parade-ground routine in the trenches.
The third episode, “Women Are Not
Gentlemen,” is the story of an enemy
sniper.
Throughout this long poem, Harley
Matthews has kept steadily to what hap-
pened and what was said. The years
have removed cluttering details and left
him with significant impressions which
he has rendered firmly and directly. The
simplicity of his writing, almost without
metaphor or comment, and certainly
without decoration, covers a masterly
selection and arrangement. Seemingly
haphazard rhythms are admirably worked
to express excitement, shock and hys-
teria :
“We’ll soon be in it,” someone said. The
air
Cracked open over us. Smoke swooped
down.
Things fell, fell, fell. A man Screamed:
“I’m hit.”
More, more shells shrieked their coming.
We lay flat,
But never flat enough. Run! Down the
slope.
No. No. Where then? “Earth take and
hide
Me,” all my being cried.
That will fall here. Run! Which way?
Too late. “Earth ”
You are aware of the human animal,
trapped, wild-eyed at a new experience ;
and Matthews, who can crumple the soul
up like this on paper, can smooth it out
again as well, a few lines later: —
Then one shell passed us by. Now they all
burst
Behind us, spattering the sea below —
Like a storm gone over. The sun shone
again,
And slender grasses leaned and swayed.
Patches of ocean toyed with glints and
gleams,
Ships swung at anchor unafraid.
We saw men come unhurrying, and go
This way and that down on the beach. “It
seems
More like a holiday,” one brother said,
“Somewhere at home, some seaside place —
the sun,
The boats, and all that passing to and fro.”
And he can write with a noble purity
whose words and movement approach the
Grand Style in English: —
We were on deck, all lined up in the
darkness.
The ship was trembling as she slackened
speed.
No sound —only the water washing cold
Along her length. No lights showed any-
where
Aboard or on the sea. But a star might
Scribble in a wave’s gulf; then the crest
rolled
And smudged all out, lest anyone might
read.
And we a while ago sat in the light
Below, where men ate, drank, and spoke;
some sang—
For that was our last meal together.
Yet there are passages where the
scansion does not seem to obey any
necessity but the need of beginning a
new line: —
“Look, corporal,” the old soldier said. “A
good
Sleep you need ”
And although he has chosen to write
in a free rhythm, contracted and ex-
panded on a five-beat base, a line capable
of giving the rhythm and tone of con-
versation, and of holding the idiom of
contemporary speech, he admits inexplic-
able inversions: —
so the war
Can only on some other front be ended
Harley Matthews can give you an
incident perfectly in everything except
the tone of conversation: —
He tried to make the night more fearful.
“Get
Up on that parapet,”
He said one night. “Walk out ten paces.
Keep
Your rifle at the slope.”
“But they will see
Me moving up there, and my bayonet.”
“Orders are orders. While you’re under me
You’ll do your guard according to the
book.”
It was not long before we dragged him in.
Only a boy he was.
Even this better example of the speeches,
so economical, the last line so perfect,
reminds us that Kenneth Slessor has
celebrated Mr. Matthews’s efforts to
grow wine: —
The plough that marks on Harley’s field
In flying earth its print
Throws up like death itself concealed
A fang of rosy flint
and as a poetical ploughman driving his
lines from side to side of a field of paper,
Mr. Matthews can say with Gray: —
My furrows oft the stubborn glebe have
broke,
and never, except, perhaps, in the poems
of Thomas Hardy, has poetical glebe
been stubborner.
But if the soil turns up in unwieldy
clods, it is still good soil, and over the
whole field of Mr. Matthews’s ploughing
the air quivers with that passion which
is the final justification of poetry.
Because of this, the poem is a success.
He has set out to give us a continuity
of war in verse, something no one else
has done with the 1914-18 war. We have
seen short and long lyrics of war, some
of which hint at unmentionable horrors.
But Matthews gives us the whole ex-
perience. Words never fail him. We are
not asked to shiver at happenings too
dark for print, or to listen to rhapsodies
on a single impression: we are shown
the scene and the men and told what
was done and what was said.
The narrative of his first episode, the
Landing, is continuous from dawn until
dawn. The second episode is a Con-
tinuity of trench life where the men’s
changing emotions are screened against
the over-zealousness of a corporal (finally
a man called Taree Jack goes looking
for a path with the corporal and comes
back without him). An enemy sniper
presides over the third episode. They
never saw him, and he became a
legend: —
They said there was a woman in the hills
Behind us. All day long she watched for
when
A man’s head showed. Some knew that
she was young
And beautiful. And some that she was old,
Mad with the hate of men.
“Each shot she fires she kills,”
They said. “She never misses. Then at
night
She comes and takes their money from the
dead.”
Around this, with an interlude of hand-
to-hand fighting, he builds up a long pro-
cession of hysteria. Men are detailed to
o Continued on inside back cover.)


•TRUTH*.IN ADVERTISING’*
NTHONY HORDERNS’
See Rex Battarbee's collection of
Central Australian Scenes
showing in Fine Art Galleries, 4th Floor.
This group of Water Coleurs
will be on view until April 23rd.
yy
'
\\
/I
%
S!
iliiP
m
>V,
it
wn
: .. . -■:
%
ii
Ni
m.
I
a ■;■
m
m
m
f.
' ' ,
s
:iiis
y •
Enrich your home with the enduring beauty of
HMD MADE lIDIM CARPETS
INDIAN! CARPETS
Approximate sizes: sft. x 2ft. 6in., £3/19/6; 6ft. x 3ft., £5/13/3; 10ft. Gin. x 9ft., £27/5/-; 12ft. x 9ft., £36/10/-,
Heavy quality, 6ft. x 3ft., £B/12/6; 9ft. x 6ft., £25/16/3; 12ft. x 9ft., £5l/12/6; 13ft. x 10ft., £62/10/-.
INDIAN DRUGGETS
Hand-made in modern designs. 6ft. x 3ft., £4/6/-; 10ft. x Bft., £l9/2/6; 12ft. x 9ft., £25/12/6.
AXMINSTER SQUARES
Heavy quality, British seamless spool. 9ft. x 7ft. 6in., £l6/10/6; 9ft. x 9ft., £22/14/-; 10ft. Gin. x 9ft.,
£2B/4/-; 12ft. x 9ft., £32/3/6; 12ft. x 10ft'. 6in., £3B/4/-; 13ft. 6in. x 10ft. 6in., £43/8/-:
CHENILLE AXMINSTER SQUARES
9ft. x 7ft. 6in., £l4/5/-; 9ft. x 9ft., £l7/2/6; 10ft. 6in. x 9ft., £2O/3/6; 12ft. x 9ft;, £24/4/-;
12ft. x 10ft. 6in:, £29/19/-; 13ft. 6in: x 10ft. 6im, £32.
BRITISH IMPERIAL AXMINSTER CARPET
27in. wide, Body, 38/6 yard; 27in. wide, Stair, 38/6 yard; 36in. wide, Stair, 58/6 yard; 45in. wide, Stair,
73/6 yard; 54in. wide, Stair, 82/6 yard.
COTTON CARPET In reproduction Persian designs. 12ft. x 9ft., £23/10/-.
STIPPLE WILTON Body Carpet in Fawn, Rust, Green and Wine. 27in. wide. 27/6 yard.
AXMINSTER BROADLOOM 9ft. wide, £7/3/- and £7/18/6 yard; 12ft. wide, £lO/8/- yard.
BRITISH VELVET PILE STAIR CARPET 22£in. wide, 18/- yard; 27in. wide, 21/6 yard.
QUALITY AXMINSTER 27in. Body Carpet, 49/6 to 51/- yard. 36in. Body Carpet, 77/6 yard.
CARPETS—FOURTH FLOOR. PHONE: M 2401; BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY
11
m
AXMINSTER FLOOR RUGS
New colourings, attractive designs.
Heavy quality, sft. x 2ft. 3in., 67/11
Spool, 6ft. x 3ft £5/8/9
■■■•■•/■ SB
BRITISH CHENILLE AXMIN. RUGS
sft. x 2ft. 6in., 54/3 sft. Sin, x 3ft., 73/-
sft. 6in. x 2ft. 11 in . 71/9
•• • •
BRITISH MOHAIR RUGS, MATS
In plain colours. 28in. x llin v
11/6, 13/3, 14/9, 16/- and 18/6
30in. x 12in., 16/3. 23/3 and 26/8


V
o
m
Slilli iiil
'■ . , ■ ■•■■■'. ■■
■V : .- : :
- - XT&* % v / -‘, "
* * ' .*&' r- •s'**'i
.
“SHAVING LUXURY”
KAMI
The World’s Best Safety
THE ROLLS RAZOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY , LTD., Sole Agents for Australia and the Islands of the Pacific,
8a Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Interstate Representatives:
QUEENSLAND—The Rolls Razor Co. of Aust. Pty., Ltd., 77 Queen Street, Brisbane.
VICTORIA and. TASMANIA—Godfrey Phillip (Aust.) Pty-., Ltd., Drury Lane, Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—Harris, Scarfe & Sandover, Ltd., Hay Street, Perth.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—CorneII, Ltd., Pirie Street, Adelaide.


The Bulletin
Vol. 70 —No. 3610
Wednesday, April 20, 1949
THE YEARS ROLL BACK. THOUGH THE YEARS ROLL ON.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Map”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H- Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; 'Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
FRANKENSTEIN.
Frankenstein Chifley is now in the
clutches of the monster which he and his
Socialist party created in this country.
That the Communists in Australian
unions have made anarchy of industry
is the direct consequence of “Labor’s”
preparations for the revolution which it
was to bring about in collaboration with
these wreckers. And in London Mr,
Chifley is committed to consult over ways
and means to combat the spectre of Com-
munist violence in South-east Asia whose
first appearance Mr. Chifley regarded with
a detached and (in Indonesia) even with
an indulgent eye.
At last, whether he likes it or not,
this “Labor” leader, whose whole political
record is bound up in “the class war,”
faces the popular demand that he shall
turn and fight the arch-fomenters of it.
Where he and his party colleagues once
supposed that they were merely handing
over Australia to a local Soviet, now he
has been warned from overseas that he
will more likely be handing it over to
Communist-inflamed Asiatics. The scheme
“Labor” contemplated was to dispossess
property-owners and private trading en-
terprise ; it has discovered that it is far
more likely to dispossess the white race
in this country.
For their part, the Communists —re-
vealed to the public at last as the
destroyers they really are —express in-
dignation that political “Labor,” which
has abetted them, plotted with them, and
even protected them, should now (in the
phrase of all miscreants) stab them in
the back. They were for “Labor” merely
“political philosophers” last year; now
(with general elections looming) “Labor”
is beginning to indict them under the
Crimes Act. Last year certain nether-
Asian peoples, fast falling under Com-
munist control, received the Chifley Gov-
ernment’s “goodwill mission.” At the
height of that mission’s tour its unhappy
leader thanked the British High Com-
missioner in Kuala Lumpur “for a most
unpleasant dinner,” where he was told
exactly what one British vice-regent
thought of crass Australian meddling.
Now Mr. Chifley has gone to London,
most .unwillingly, to help to stop the rot.
Small hope he has of doing that while
the Communists hold him by the short
hairs at home, especially as here the
monster is of his own creation. What
the Communists are modernly in Aus-
tralia as a force to reckon with Mr,
Chifley’s “Labor” party has made them.
The positions of advantage they occupy
“Labor” has prepared for them. Their
rule in the unions as an oligarchy “Labor”
has approved as implementing the policy
for socialisation in this Commonwealth.
The democratic institutions which the
Communists deride and defy “Labor”
has undermined in accordance with the
party’s plan, The ultimate aim of Soviet
government in this land was approved
and accepted by the A.L.P. in 1921 and
has been pursued undeviatingly ever since.
The very men who hold senior office in
the Chifley Ministry sat in the “Labor”
congress which fixed that objective and
directed the course taken towards it.
The path followed by “Labor” since
the A.L.P. and All-Australian Trade
Union congress of 1921 —the chairman
of the latter was Mr. Holloway, now
Acting Prime Monster, who then declared
that “the workers of Australia have at
last adopted the slogan of Karl Marx,
and one of the dreams of my life has
become accomplished fact” —has been
told many times in these columns. The
points of the programme were: Socialisa-
tion of industry, production, distribution
and exchange; the abolition of craft
unions in favor of “organisation along
the lines of industry” ; nationalisation of
banks, and thereby of all other business ;
displacement of Parliament by a Supreme
Economic Council elected by nationalised
industries. Every one of these is also a
Communist objective. In 1931 and 1943,
when “Labor,” having lulled electors into
forgetfulness and won to power (though
not to the required full freedom to use
it), this programme was revived under
Communist pressure in the unions, to
which union executives generally assented.
But not till the Chifley Government con-
trolled both Federal Houses in 1946,
and the war-time Curtin pledge against
socialisation had elapsed (the electorate
again being asleep), did Socialist
“Labor’s” great chance come.
Since 1946 the Chifley Government’s
record of political destruction in Aus-
tralia —its attempt in accordance with the
1921 plan to “scramble the eggs so that
they can never be unscrambled” was one
Minister’s delighted expression of the pro-
cess —is visible in clear perspective.
The Evatt referendums of 1944 and
(modified in) 1946 were designed to
simplify operations by seeking transfer
from the States to the central Govern-
ment of all powers over industry, over
marketing, over aviation, over a dozen
activities. These appeals followed all
preceding ones into the limbo of defeat
by the electors. In the utmost contempt
of the people’s vote the Chifley-Evatt
combination then worked out schemes for
getting round these decisions. The Evatt
share in the plot was to beslaver High
Court judgments to such an extent that
exaggerated complexities would make
them mean nothing at all, and so en-
courage disaffection or despair among the
electors. The Chifley part was to intro-
duce socialisation under a policy of
gradualness. The ways and means:
To nationalise all air-services, in con-
tempt of the referendum. The High Court
defeated him; the effort to get round that
is still not abandoned.
By extending wartime prices powers, to
control exports and imports (against the
referendum vote); only the fortuitous and
inflated price of wheat overseas has given
the Government’s wheat-marketing perform-
ance any face at all. The loss in the
disgraceful N.Z. wheat contract is paid
for by the taxpayers.
To circumvent the refusal of powers over
industry by appropriating the business of
the trading banks —as Lenin advised —and
then holding every business in the land to
ransom. The High Court twice knocked
him back, and the Privy Council has now
had a sample of the Evatt process of using
a tidal-wave of talk to confuse judgment.
To depose Parliament from its rightful
function legislation is now fashioned in
Caucus, and Parliament, as under Hitler
and Stalin, is merely for formal registra-
tion of laws.
The intimate daily life of the country is
more and more governed under regulations
of which in advance Parliament knows
nothing. The whole trend under the Chifley
regime has been to permit any trading or
enterprise only under licence. This is the
system enacted under the air-transport and
shipping acts and it would come to its
worst and most intolerable imposition under
the Banking Acts.
The most apt illustration currently of
“Labor’s” pathfinding for the Com-
munists is in the legislative assaults upon
the authority of the Federal Arbitration
Court. In the day when Parliament, the
secret ballot and private enterprise are
overthrown under socialisation, nobody in
his senses will expect the Arbitration
Court to survive. The Conciliation Com-
missioners created under Dr, Evatt’s Act
during this Parliament to take over much
of the jurisdiction of the Arbitration
Bench have not yet completely displaced
the court itself; but Caucus members
made plain during the public debate on
the bill that that was what they expected,
and in their eyes the only fit dispensers
of industrial justice are union agitators.
Mr. Chifley was not quite ready for this,
though he could not condemn it under
the socialisation plan. The spectacle of
the Thorntons, Healys, Rowes and Elliots
(among others) functioning over tribunals
in place of Arbitration Court Judges
would not, he knew, pay a political divi-
dend so long as Parliament should endure.
This record supplies the reason why
Mr. Chifley cannot combat the Com-
munist insurgence in Australia. He has
by every means available —bludgeoning
Parliament, discounting referendum de-
cisions, wrangling in the courts, all in
face of an indignant, public opinion
gradually become articulate —carried out
so far as he could (and without a man-
date), the socialisation programme pre-
pared by “Labor” in 1921, a programme
concocted with the assistance of leading
Communists then also leading members
of the “Labor” party, and its aims abso-
lutely identical with those of Marx House.
The co-operation between A.L.P. and
Communist executive officials has been
consistent; the political “philosophies” of
the two bodies have been in purpose in-
distinguishable.
Now the Communists complain that
they are being sold down the river. Mr.
Chifley is supposed to be the man who
will make them take it and like it; that,
at least, must be the assumption with
“Labor” electors who have had enough
of the Communists but not yet enough
of Mr. Chifley, Those who manage to
maintain this frame of mind for the next
six months and over the polling-day to
follow may be assured of ringside places
at “Labor’s” post-mortem.
Reprisals Needed.
We live in a country in which “two
lottery tickets have the same number” is
big news, and in which a visiting detec-
tive is reported to have said that Aus-
tralian confidence-men are “the finest
in the world.”
The “con.-man,” of course, has become
a national institution. He sometimes
poses as a Federal Minister when he is
really only an agent of trade-unions who
order him about like a puppy whenever
'they feel like it. He grabs sugarbagsful
of the public’s income and then hands
back handsful with the air of Father
Christmas, and looks to receive the
humble gratitude of millions who are
asked to believe that he is responsible for
the lovely times, endless picture-shows
and races and lottery-a-day which they
are enjoying, but not for the strikes and
the power blackouts which are holding
back all real progress in Australia.
Never has the con.-man complex in
Australia been more in evidence than in
the McPhillips case. McPhillips is a
leading Communist, a member of the
party’s executives. He has gone where
the Communist party has sent him for a
number of years. He went from a com-
paratively exalted position in the south
to exile in Darwin when the Communist
party wanted the North Australian
Workers’ Union built into a fifth-column,
and he was brought back to be the chief
support of Comrade Ernie Thornton, now
in Moscow, in the guise of assistant-
secretary to the Ironworkers’ Federation.
On the day on which representatives of
the A.C.T.U. had just returned from in-
forming Victorian Premier Hollway that
its moderate soul was shocked at the
events which had compelled the Vic-
torian Government to pass drastic in-
dustrial-peace legislation, that body ap-
pointed McPhillips as one of its advocates,
before the Arbitration Court, which he
and all his kind intend to destroy, to
argue for a fantastic claim for wage-
increases.
This curious display of its professed
hate for extremists by the A.C.T.U, seems
to have missed contemporary comment
by the Australian daily Press.
Having assumed his duties, McPhillips
took occasion to insult the court, of
which, in his capacity as an advocate, he
was in effect an officer, in a manner which
was deliberate and part of the cold-
blooded policy of the party of which he
is an executive and to which his duty
comes before that to the members of the
union which pays his salary and the
British community in which he lives. His
offence was so flagrant that he was sen-
tenced to a month’s imprisonment. And
in the interval between sentence delivered
in absentia and his arrest he aggravated
his offence by going to a public meeting
and supporting the moves which were
being made by his lawless associates to
paralyse the country’s economy and
plunge it in chaos in order to defeat the
law and further damage the prestige of
the Arbitration system.
There has been no manifestation of
the Federal “Labor” Government’s indig-
nation, Actually, the impression gained
from the reports of the deputation which
waited on Senator McKenna is that he
argued for two hours as an equal with
this coterie, whom he should have re-
fused to see, and* lost the battle, since
they informed him, when he allegedly
offered the release of the main culprit if
he would apologise to the court, that he
would never apologise. The ruffian Mc-
Phillips himself was photographed grin-
ning on his way to Long Bay.
The attitude of the A.C.T.U., that
group of “moderates” and supposed
haters of Communists, appeared to be
that it was an injured party through hav-
ing temporarily lost the services of its
Communist advocate —it took several
days even to consider dismissing him
for a deliberate act of defiance against its
own expressed policy of support of the
Arbitration Court, some of whose mem-
bers were appointed to the Bench by
industrial Labor’s present political repre-
sentatives at Canberra.
To see the matter in clear focus it
needs to be understood that the opposi-
tion of the Communists to arbitration is
a policy not their own but one framed
in Moscow, issued from Moscow in writ-
ing, and accepted obediently by them. It
is a policy framed by, and in, a country
whose greedy belligerence and warlike
attitude are keeping the whole world
armed, a country whose representatives
are proclaiming at the present time that
“there can never be peace in the world
till the capitalist system is destroyed.”
Literally thousands of millions of pounds
are being spent to protect the civilised
world from the menace of the Soviet
Union, hundreds of thousands of men
frozen in the defence forces and munition-
production plants of a dozen countries,
who could be providing the materials to
fill the numerous shortages from which
the whole world has been suffering.
Orders of Moscow were transmitted
through the present leaders of the Aus-
tralian Communist party as far back as
1931, after Sharkey’s return from the
U.S.S.R. They were published under
banner headings by an executive —that of
the R.I.L.U. —of which one of the leading
members was the present president of Mr.
Chifley’s New South Wales Australian
“Labor” party executive, Mr. J. A. Fer-
guson, in its journal the “Red Leader.”
In 1934 Mr. Ferguson seconded an
A.C.T.U. conference resolution repudi-
ating arbitration.
Sharkey, in reporting the instructions
which he had received, said:
The Congress [i.e., of the R.I.L.U.] in
Moscow gave directions for the politicalisa-
tion of strikes. The solidarity strike is the
most important starting-point for develop-
ing individual struggles into the purposeful
struggle of class against class —.
A plan was set down which included
schemes to —-
....(3) Strengthen and extend the union
grouping system for the purpose of estab-
lishing the unions as an instrument of the
Communist party to bring about the revolu-
tion.
(4) To fight for the unrestricted right to
strike.
(5) To fight against class collaboration,
so-called peace manoeuvres and arbitration.
—all with a view to producing conditions
for insurrection as part of the plan to
“defend Soviet Russia.”
The instructions have been actively
carried out —to a large extent success-
fully—ever since they were brought into
the country and formally adopted here
by the Communist party.
It seems that the moment has arrived
when the community should start to
protect itself with the same enthusiasm
as is being applied to its ruin in the in-
terests of a hostile Power. While no-
body in these days would advocate total
abolition of the right to strike upon a
legitimate grievance and within the very
wide range of privileges provided for by
the arbitration law, sedition and lawless
strikes arranged for the benefit of a
foreign country which is bent on con-
quest are another thing, and every means,
public and private, should be used to
counter them, especially when we are
told that they are part of an international
scheme.
If the Governments which are sup-
posed to operate the law will not act,
then it is time that those who suffer in-
dividually began to consider their civil
rights to compensation when they become
heavy losers through the seditious incite-
ments of foreign agents.
A few claims for heavy damages from
individual firms against the saboteurs
who stir up trouble, which threatens the
ruin of business and which wrecks profits
might have a salutary effect.
And a few more judicious libel actions
against those who abuse and intimidate
men who decide to abide by the law of
their own country instead of the ukases
of an enemy totalitarian might stop a
great deal of the bullying.
The leaders of the British Labor party
set a good example in that matter in
,1940. When they turned on the Com-
rades in the courts, six of them, headed
by Sir Walter Citrine, secured such
thumping damages from a jury that the
Communist party was almost mealy-
mouthed towards them for years after-
wards. They cost the Communist “con.-
men” something like £30,000 when all
expenses were included.
Millions for Vote-bait.
The tax-cuts Mr. Chifley promised for
next July could easily have been given
last July. Those which do come in July
seem likely to be followed by further
cuts just before the Commonwealth elec-
tion, due some time before Christmas.
Mr. Chifley’s Treasury is stuffed with tax-
money.
For the first nine months of the tax-
year revenue stands at over £356 million,
£5O million more than for the same period
last year, and tax collections of nearly
£290 million are up £23 million in spite
of last year’s tax cuts. What’s more, less
than half the estimated income-tax yield
of £172 million has been collected. How
any Treasurer could underestimate his
receipts for a year by so much is one
of the wonders of “Labor” administra-
tion, Some figures:
Total revenue for nine months,
£356,751,000, compared with £306,812,000
last period; actual tax collections,
£289,919,000, against £266,614,000 last year.
Receipts from income and social services
tax for the nine months (£143,807,000) are
up £10,688,000 on last year. All other items
are up except land, gift and gold taxes.
Expenditure from revenue and loans is up,
too, and makes a total of £381,094,000, but
what with uncollected taxes and other things
there should be no doubt of a surplus.
Melbourne “Argus” suggests that “it
would not be impossible for this year’s
high expenditure figures to cloak the
building of new inner reserves at a time
when some old reserves are being utilised
to meet war-gratuity and other payments.”
Mr. Fadden, the C.P. leader, is franker:
The Government is deliberately holding
back tax deductions until just before the
elections Substantial direct and indirect
tax-cuts could and should have been made
last year The Government has been
hoarding taxpayers’ money instead of allow-
ing them to control it themselves.
The Government’s socialistic creed is
that people aren’t capable of controlling
their own money, that they should not
question Government control of it, that
they should pay up and shut up. And it
it wins the next election that creed will
go into action in full force.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Mr. Hanlon Draws a Map.
Last time Queensland went to the polls
42 per cent, of the electors voted for
/Labor” and 46 per cent, for the Opposi-
tion parties (Country party and Queens-
land People’s party), yet “Labor” won
35 seats and the Opposition only 23. The
remaining votes and seats were shared by
three Independents and a Communist.
Actually, with 16,428 fewer votes than the
Opposition, “Labor” won 12 more seats
—a truly remarkable feat, made even
more so when it is recalled that only a
few months earlier Queensland, voting
as one electorate, had returned the
Liberal-Country party Senate team when
all* other States had elected “Labor”
Senators.
But during “Labor’s” almost unin-
terrupted run of more than 30 years on
the Queensland Treasury benches the
electors have ‘ become accustomed to
anomalies like that, and “Labor” mem-
bers have become so inured to accusa-
tions regarding gerrymandered electorates
that they scarcely turn a hair when the
subject crops up. In 1947 the chief fac-
tor in keeping Hanlon’s men in office on
a minority vote was the forethought of
the Government in abandoning prefer-
ential voting and reverting to the old
system, scrapped in all other States, of
first past the post; almost as important
were the bent boundaries, which by
means of double-loops and re-entrant
angles pulled stray pockets of “Labor”
voters into vital electorates. Several Op-
position members scored 8000-10,000
votes, but few “Labor” winners needed
or received more than 5000; some of
Hanlon’s boys won on 3000 and less.
There is another Queensland election
coming next year, and with the two Op-
position parties making arrangements to
avoid three-cornered fights, the first-up-
best-dressed system may not prove such
an asset to “Labor,” particularly if the
Communists decide to run a few candi-
dates. For that reason Opposition parties
see in Mr. Hanlon’s latest Electoral Dis-
tricts Bill an attempt to retrieve the situa-
tion. More than that, they claim the
bill will make' it virtually impossible
for “Labor” ever to be removed from
office.
The bill splits the State into four zones
and fixes the voting quota and the num-
ber of seats for each zone ; it also creates
13 new seats, bringing the total to 75.
One Q.P.P. man said of the map defining
the new zones that it “should be pre-
served in the rogues’ gallery in the State
C. 1.8.” The zone-boundaries, he main-
tained, were crooked “not only in the
geographical but in the moral sense.” In
debate Mr. Hanlon claimed that there
was no jiggery-pokery about the bill, its
purpose being to prevent “any portion of
the State, no matter how its population
grew, from controlling the whole of the
State.” He denied that any boundaries
had been fixed ; that was a matter for
the Electoral Commission.
The Opposition complaint is that the
fixing of the zones, quotas and number of
seats weights the scales in favor of
“Labor,” no matter how the seat-
boundaries are drawn. In the metropoli-
tan and south-eastern zones, where Op-
position winning margins in 1947 were
roughly double the “Labor” winning mar-
gins, high quotas have been fixed—
metropolitan, 10,715; south - eastern,
9536—allowing a minimum of new seats.
In the northern and western zones, where
“Labor” predominates (14 seats to one
in the present House), quotas are lower
—northern, 7852 ; western, 4783. The
Q.P.P. points out that in the western
zone “Labor” will probably win seats
with a total of votes less than the
Q.P.P. winning margin in the first two
zones ; and on the 1947 figures this seems
very probable.
The debate on the bill was a stormy
one. The Opposition moved half a
dozen amendments—all of them defeated
—and made it clear that they regarded
the measure as an attempt by “Labor”
to hold on to power for ever. To a sug-
gestion of a referendum Mr. Hanlon
said that the next election would give the
people the opportunity to express their
opinion of the bill. That may be so, but
if the Q.P.P. are correct in their claim
that even with two-thirds of the people
voting against them “Labor” might still
manage to cling to office, it is hard to
see how the people’s opinion is to be
interpreted from the election figures.
“Labor” might have avoided charges of
gerrymandering if it had subdivided the
new Federal electorates, just as it could
have met roll-stuffing charges by adopt-
ing a joint Federal-State roll; but
Queensland “Labor,” like - Canberra
“Labor,” does not seem to worry over-
much about aspersions on its rectitude.
It adopts the principle that to the pure
all things are pure, and insists that there
is nothing suspicious about the present
bill, even though Barnes, the Bundaberg
Bombshell, says “It smells.” Whether the
aroma is the smell of political corruption
or the odor of sanctity time will show.
Ethics of Socialisation.
Finding of the Tasmanian Assembly’s
Select Committee on the Aylett case was
that the State Minister for Housing’s
action in giving false figures about build-
ing stocks was “unwise and not in keep-
ing with the accepted traditions of Parlia-
ment.” Reproof could hardly have been
milder. On whether Mr. Aylett would
resign his office or not depended the
launching of an Opposition censure
motion, which would have led to defeat
of the Government and another general
election. The Cosgrove “Labor” Gov-
ernment’s hold on office is as tenuous as
that.
Mr. Aylett’s first comment was: “If I
am to be a monkey I will not be alone.”
However, after a Caucus meeting he de-
cided he must indeed be both, and re-
signed, as he told Parliament, “in order
to save the Government embarrassment.”
The Leader of the Opposition told the
House Mr. Aylett had taken the only
possible course “to vindicate the honor of
Parliament.” That was clear enough
from the committee’s report:
The figures supplied by the Agricultural
Bank to the Minister were substantially
accurate and were altered by or at the
instigation of the Minister before being
presented as an official reply in the Legis-
lative Council
A motive for the Minister’s submission
of incorrect information was his anxiety
“WID ME BUNDLE ON ME SHOULDER”
to see that the passage of the Building
Materials Bill was not prejudiced by the
production of figures [of stocks held by a
Government agency] that might be ‘ con-
sidered excessive....
The committee finds it to be its painful
duty to state that some of .the evidence of
the Minister is conflicting, notably that
concerning his contention that the figures
originally supplied as an answer in the
Legislative Council represented the normal
stock position, and his statement in a letter
to the member [who had asked the ques-
tion] that the altered figures were due to a
mistake in the Minister’s own office.
A feature of the Minister’s evidence
before the committee was his fencing
when questioned by Opposition-leader
Campbell, a member of the committee.
To Campbell’s queries Aylett replied that
he “had altered the figures and considered
he was entitled to,” that he “did not agree
this was a serious step for a Minister to
take,” and that he “did not consider he
was misleading the Legislative Council.”
Finally;
Campbell: When the bank said it held
50 tons you altered it to 20 tons. Was
not that a serious step for you or any
Minister? —Aylett: Are you suggesting that
every answer forwarded by a department
should be sent unaltered?
Campbell : I am suggesting that Parlia-
ment is entitled to get correct information.
Do you agree?—Yes.
The case illumines at least one “Labor”
Minister’s attitude towards the answering
of questions in Parliament. If, caught
out in so glaring a case, and with the
penalty of a fatal censure-motion staring
it in the face, a “Labor” Ministry re-
quired a day’s delay and a Caucus meet-
ing to decide what a Minister should do,
what would have happened if the
Ministry had been assured of a majority
vote in the Assembly?
There is this also for reflection. The
question about volume of Government-
held building stocks was asked in Parlia-
ment for the purpose of opposing a bill
to give the Government control of build-
ing materials; and the Minister respon-
sible gave out false figures in answer in
order not to imperil the bill. If this sort
of thing is possible with a “Labor” Gov-
ernment in order to obtain a socialistic
measure of control, what will be done
under controls so obtained?
And the Socialists argue that socialisa-
tion is necessary for correction of cor-
ruption under private enterprise!
U.K. Socialist Reckoning.
From London: In the reaction to Sir
Stafford Cripps’s “hold-the-fort” Budget
it is hard to say which was the stronger
element —surprise or shock. Like the
Truman election, the forecasters were
surprised, for they were confident that
some vote-catching concessions, however
slight, would be made. There were none,
since even the penny a pint off beer was
the result of a fall in consumption.
The country was shocked at the Chan-
cellor of the Exchequer’s uncompromising
rigor, but soon recovered. Since British
people haven’t yet forgotten one of their
most expensive lessons—that it is better
to face unpleasant facts than to dodge
them—there’s a buoyant cheerfulness, )
especially in more responsible circles.
The shock has fallen hardest upon the
partisans of the Labor “movement” —
the trade-unions, back-benchers and out-
and-outers.
Cripps, belatedly but with courage, has
laid down the facts so that there can be
no material dispute about their urgency.
He has demonstrated to the reluctant
hearing of many of his colleagues and
to the leaders of the “workers” that there
are no more rich to be “soaked,” no vast
treasure-chests to be looted, and that the
nation is, in fact, one great working-class
whose security and welfare will depend
upon its own efforts. Labor speakers,
accustomed to the jingle of their time-worn
suppositions, must be feeling pretty sick.
Above all, the Chancellor has stressed
what many of us have been ineffectually
repeating for years; that whoever chooses
to have expensive luxuries must pay for
them. And now the reckoning. It would
be easy to recount what Mr. “Nye”
Bevan has said about his National Health
Service and to show him in the role of a
knight-errant tilting at selfish odds; and
to quote the Labor M.Ps. at the South
Hammersmith by-election not very many
weeks ago who explained away the ex-
cessive cost as if it were- a trifle. They
had only to seek quick political returns ;
they didn’t have to find the money.
Cripps is in that unenviable position,
and he has to tell dhe people that they
can’t eat their cake and have it. Now,
it seems, unless the public voluntarily
moderates its claims against doctor,
dentist and oculist, this vaunting ambition
of Socialist theorists will lead to further,
special, taxation. That public opinion
demanded the scheme has never been
disputed. But it should have evolved
step by step and in prudent co-operation
with the authorities concerned—not by
press-gang legislation.
Booze and Local Government.
Strange things have been happening in
the N.S.W, Shire of Stroud, about 150
miles north of Sydney. On the top end
of the shire is the booming seaside resort
of Forster, where land values are high,
accommodation hard to get and big plans
afoot for development. Among the
plans was one by the Shire Council for
a community hotel, announced in 1947.
The councillors were not unanimous
about it, but the council decided to seek
a licence. Now there asn’t a council.
Opposition to the hotel appeared almost
at once. The council had to get over
two Equity Court injunctions and an
application to the Full Court. The' Full
Court unanimously upheld the council,
and it was granted the first community-
hotel licence in N.S.W. During the liti-
gation the council had to fight two appli-
cations for transfers of hotel-licences to
Forster—one from Tibooburra, the other
from Hopeville. Tibooburra is far out
in the north-west corner of N.S.W., on
the S.A. border. Heaven knows where
Hopeville is, though there is a Home-
ville near Maitland.
According to the “Shire and Municipal,
Record,” a Mr. F. G. D. Stone, shire-
engineer, holds the community-hotel
licence, and he said that the Tibooburra
and Hopeville parties applied only after
the council had published its proposals.
Anyhow, having its licence, the council
decided to take a poll of ratepayers on
the hotel on March 19. But the Minister
for Local Government in the McGirr
“Labor” Cabinet, a Mr. Cahill, cancelled
, the poll, and while the council was trying
to get its breath he issued a proclamation
dismissing it. Its finances, said Mr.
Cahill, were in a “parlous condition”
(which must have been an irresistible re-
minder of the condition of the McGirr
transport outfit), and the council had
“failed to face up to its responsibilities,”
So Mr. Cahill’s Mr. H. W. Dane has
taken over Stroud Shire Council. As an
inspector he prepared a report, and as
Administrator he adopted it and slapped
a special rate of on to the existing
rate of 3d. to “meet some of the council’s
indebtedness.” That is expected to bring
in £7047. When the dismissed council
moved to increase the rate by l|d. if
was defeated, although, according to Shire
Clerk Adcock, it had “heavy commit-
ments which it is unable to meet” and
was more than £BOO in arrears for wages.
Mr. Flannery, the displaced president,
says that Mr. Cahill “acted hastily”:
We were elected only in December, and
cannot be blamed for what happened before
then. All this trouble started about a
modern community hotel the council
decided to build... .The council made plans
for a referendum on the hotel, but at the
last minute Mr. Cahill would not allow it.
An inspector went through the council’s
books, and the shire clerk telephoned me
that the council had been removed from
office.
The community hotel seems to play a
prominent part in all this, and doubtless
the applicants from Tibooburra and
Hopeville, or Homeville, will be deeply
interested in the fate of the licence held
by Mr. Stone. However, the important
thing is Mr. Cahill’s blocking of the
referendum. Referendums seem to be
anathema to this Mr. Cahill, who refused
them on the scandalous local-government
“amalgamations” which his crowd forced
upon the people; who dismissed the
Nowra Council and appointed to it men
whom the ratepayers had previously re-
jected ; who proposed to give inspectors
the right to enter Sydney homes to catch
housewives using gas “illegally” until he
realised he’d gone too far, for once. And
he is a Minister in a Government which
refuses local-option polls in liquor mat-
ters, and is notorious for its encourage-
ment of the booze and betting interests.
All in all, the doings in Stroud Shire
are very strange indeed, and it mightn’t
be a bad idea for Mr. Fitzgerald, the
member for the (Gloucester) district in
the N.S.W. Parliament, to invite Mr.
Cahill to explain the whole thing to the
State Assembly,
The Go-slow in Shipping.
Between July 1 and December 31 last
year there were 20,604 registered wharf-,
lumpers at Australian ports, and during
the period an average of 1878 of them
were away from work every working day.
Not that a wharfie’s working day is a
very long one. Figures from the central
pay-offices of all ports show the average
working week to have been 35.15 hours,
or five seven-hour days. For the seven
hours the wharfies averaged about
£2 Is. lid. each, and between the lot of
them earned a total of £5,104,905 for the
six months.
Highest pay was earned at Lucinda
Point, -on the Queensland sugar coast,
where the men averaged just on £24 a
week, though for how many hours isn’t
stated. In Sydney, where they worked
about 34? hours, the average was
£9 12s. Id. Only in Melbourne, it seems,
is the full 40-hour week worked. Average
weekly wages and hours, and total wages
for the period at main pouts:
Sydney, £9 12s. Id., 34.23 hours,
£1,431,544.
Melbourne, £l2 Is. 9d„ 40.81, £1,189,113.
Brisbane, £lO 3s. 2d., 32.28, £480,621.
Adelaide, £ll 4s. 3d., 37.6, £411,817.
Fremantle, £ll 16s. Id., 37.34, £325,191.
Newcastle, £lO Is. lid., 34.2, £160,659.
Port Kembla, £8 11s. 5d., 28.27, £50,132.
This, of course, partly explains the
high cost of sea-freight and its contribu-
tion to the general high cost of everything.
(Continued on next page)


ii
d
M
I
y.\
cravbk
mack &
s&u
itiiwrcds
yi
A
68G0E/R
CARRERAS LIMITED OVEB 150 YEARS' REPUTATION FOR QUALITY |
It does more, for it suggests that the
wharfies are far from anxious to work.
The average hours worked at the seven
ports give an average for each of them
of a week of under 35 hours, which is a
long Way short of that 40 hours which, in
the opinion of the court which fixed the
shorter week, would not cause the fall
in production “feared by employer wit-
nesses” and would “rapidly overtake”
whatever fall there was.
These averages, and this form of arriv-
ing at conclusions, have their weaknesses,
since they overlook strikes and other
things. But they do suggest that the
wharfies are satisfied with a short week
and an average weekly pay of somewhere
between £9 and £ll. They could earn
much more. Every port has its tale of
ships waiting to be loaded or unloaded,
every port knows all about the costly slow
turn-round of ships, and every port knows
that loading and unloading rates per gang
per hour have fallen. Last month it was
shown that whereas the deadweight
capacity of ships in the Australian coastal
trade was 194,000 tons greater in 1947
than in 1939, the tonnage of goods passing
through Australian ports in 1947-48 was
5 p.c. less than in 1937-38-39, though the
number of wharfies had increased by
30 p.c.
There is a costly Stevedoring Industry
Commission which is supposed to attend
to things on the waterfronts and keep the
ships moving. It ought to find out why
the wharfies’ average pay isn’t more, why
the average hours are so low, and name
the cause or causes. Chief among them,
of course, would be Communism.
POLITICAL POINTS
As Acting Prime Minister, Holloway
took the star turn at the Victorian A.L.P.
annual conference. And as Chifley’s
deputy he turned on the “Golden Age”
record to the full. With the economic
programme it had “prepared,” he said, the
Government could “maintain Australia’s
prosperity for ever.” As for unemploy-
ment, the “plans” would ensure “ ‘full
employment’ for 30 years,” But the
milk in the coconut is that the Chifley
Government, “poor old Holloway,” the
“Dorothy Dixes” and all, must remain in
power first for 30 years and thereafter
for ever. Compulsory political direction
of labor—that industrial conscription
which is, by Chifley’s confession, neces-
sary for “full employment” under the
plan—will doubtless begin with the con-
ference decision to claim from the Gov-
ernment legislation for compulsory
unionism throughout Australia.
Sydney shipping-clerks, opposed to Red
domination of their union, have asked
for Federal assistance to challenge a ballot
to be held for election of officers. They
claim they have received ballot-papers
which are to be returned to “H. J. Bond,
Box 4224 G.P.0., Sydney” ; they have
never heard of Bond or the box-number
and they feel mighty suspicious. As a
member of another Communist-controlled
union said recently: “It isn’t who you
vote for that’s important. It’s who counts
your votes.” The only answer is election
by secret ballot under supervision of the
Electoral Office.
Assurance-company shares slumped on
the London Stock Exchange at the men-
tion of the Attlee Government’s inten-
tion to nationalise industrial assurance.
So far there has been no report of the
Bank of England’s buying up shares to
arrest the fall as the Commonwealth
Bank did when Australian exchanges re-
acted to the news of the Bank Grab.
Perhaps the bank’s charter doesn’t per-
mit it. For that matter there’s still con-
siderable room for doubt whether the
Commonwealth Bank acted within its
powers.
Apparently more concerned at the loss
of McPhillips’s services as an advocate
for the basic-wage proceedings than at
the slur he cast on the Arbitration Court,
A.C.T.U. officials went twice to Long
Bay jail to persuade him to apologise
for his reflection on the court, in the
hope that this might bring a remission of
sentence. McPhillips declined—and to
give the ruffian his due he could scarcely
do otherwise at that late stage, even to
get the A.C.T.U. out of a hole. That
weak-kneed outfit has flirted so long
with the Communists that it deserves all
the snubs it gets.
A syndicate of Australian dailies has
unearthed, or been unearthed by, a re-
pentant Comrade who, after 14 years’
service with the Communist party, has
suddenly discovered that that institution
is “evil, undemocratic and conspicuously
un-Australian.” In order that the world
may know this the young man, very
small beer and not even a member of the
Central Committee, has attached himself
firmly to various eminent newspaper legs,
with the result that leader-pages are being
splashed with amazing copyright revela-
tions, some of which are up to normal
Communist standards of accuracy and
some not. However, the articles may
have some good effects. A few leading
Communists who read, may die laughing.
Naive, blind or punch-drunk? In the
Victorian Assembly when a Liberal mem-
ber said that the “Labor” party en-
couraged Communism by allowing
avowed Communists to control unions
affiliated with the “Labor” party, Galvin,
deputy-leader of the State “Labor” party,
demanded a withdrawal of the “deliber-
ate lie,” and one of his colleagues backed
him up with “scandalous, too.” Haven’t
they heard of Thornton, Healy, Elliott
and McPhillips, to name only a few?
And if Jack Brown isn’t a Communist
in control of a union affiliated with the
A.L.P., what is he?
Off to London with the Prime Minister
went Dr, Burton, of the External Affairs
Department, fresh from his defeat in
the “Labor” preselection ballot for the
new Canberra seat. If the young Doc. is
wise he will take a reorientation course
between now and election-time. Novem-
ber may find the old Doc. out of a job.
Labor retained control of London
County Council by means of one of those
quaint little survivals that Socialists de-
plore but are not above making use of.
There are 124 councillors, elected for
three years by popular vote, and 20 aider-
men, elected by the councillors. Aider-
men sit for six years, half the number
retiring every three years. There is also
a chairman, elected by the councillors
and aldermen ; he is usually chosen from
among their number, but an outsider
may be appointed. At the council
election Labor and Conservatives dead-
heated with 62 seats each. Labor still
had a slight majority among the aider-
men, and by appointing a chairman from
outside the council it managed to hang
on to power. The choice fell on a man
who had just been turned down by the
electors. Not exactly democratic, of
course, but strictly within the law.
General Blarney said just before Eas-
ter: “Critics call the Army a poor show
because it is—it hardly exists.” “Labor”
leaders, committed to push-button de-
fence with the button-pusher concealed
beneath hundreds of feet of concrete
somewhere in the wilds of the Snowy
River country, dismiss Blarney’s com-
ment as of no account, but if the leader
of Australia’s war-time Army says Aus-
tralia’s peace-time Army is a poor show
it is a poor show, and all the burblings
of Dedman and Chambers can’t conceal
the fact.
Its Canberra man informed Sydney
“Sun” last week that Federal Ministers
had told him the Chifley Cabinet’s “new
policy is to be tough with Communist
leaders.” The spectacle of any Federal
Minister being “tough” with anybody
except helpless individuals or stranded
migrants would be hard to believe. How-
ever :
Prosecutions recently authorised are said
to be only the beginning of a campaign
to demonstrate that the “Labor” Govern-
ment will not tolerate the tactics of Com-
munist trade-union leaders.
It has tolerated —if not encouraged—them
ever since it has b§en in office. It was
not until the other week, when R. G.
Menzies proved that the people had had
enough of Communism and inspired de-
cent unionists to stand up against the
Reds, that these Chifley chaps talked
about getting “tough.” What the Chifley
crowd is doing is falling over itself to try
and make a bad marble good.
When it was rumored that a. Federal
Cabinet Minister at Sydney Show eyed
the Red Poll cattle thoughtfully and
muttered, “Ah, if only we could stop the
Liberals prodding us like that!” every
effort was made to locate him. But ’twas
vain ; the last that was seen of him was
a figure pushing forward to a sign, which
looked like “Taxmen Now Performing,”
but was actually “Axemen Now Perform-
ing.” The word “axe” evidently proved
too much, and the Minister hasn’t been
seen since.
A numbering-machine in the McGirr
Lott’ry Office went wrong and gave two
tickets the same number. This might
have escaped notice if two separate “in-
vestors” had bought them, provided that
number had not drawn a prize ; but it so
happened that the same man bought
both. Speculation about paying two
prizes on one number, whether it
could really happen here and so forth,
rocked the city. The “investor” seemed
to think somebody was trying to pull a
swiftie on him —a not-uncommon feeling
among gamblers—and he was mighty in-
dignant about it. The lott’ry boss made
public statements that nobody was, or
could have been, robbed ; Premier McGirr
promised to “make every effort” to pre-
vent a recurrence; distinct nervousness
seemed to prevail from the Cabinet down
to the lott’ry-ticketsellers. What would
have happened if the number bad drawn
a big prize baffles the imagination.
The “converted” Communist Sharpley
claims it took him 14 years to wake-up
to Communism; he now believes in
Socialism. At that rate in another 14
years he may be quite sane.
When the Joint Organisation surrenders
control of surplus-wool marketing next
year it may be followed by an Australian
Woolgrowers’ Council sub-committee
plan to provide for;
An Australian, N.Z., South African and
U.K. partnership; a seasonal reserve price
related to general prices; an Australian
board with a majority of woolgrowers’
representatives; a London organisation to
represent the partnership. Administrative
costs would be borne by the partners and
the wool-industry fund—that is, the money
left by J.O. —would provide the initial cost
of the Australian board. Estimates of the
capital in the plan vary up to £lOO million.
The plan goes before the Woolgrowers’
Council in June. In the meantime the
hardest job will be to keep political hands
off it.
The McGirr Cabinet was supposed to
reach a decision on electricity-rationing
yesterday. This was because the Bun-
nerong power-house can’t supply enough
power and light to keep its share of
Sydney going. The Balmain Electric
Supply Co. and St. George County
Council somehow manage to look after
their consumers without dark threats or
blackouts. The obvious remedy is to
hand over Bunnerong to them. But
obvious remedies don’t appeal to “Labor”
Governments—their one answer to short-
ages, Communist-caused or otherwise, is
rationing.
A member of the new Liberal-Country
party in Victoria has again raised in the
Legislative Assembly of that State a pro-
posal of last November that the Hollway
Government should appoint a royal
commission to inquire into activities of
the Communist party. Premier Hollway
promptly gave the suggestion his blessing
and said he hoped at an early date to
announce the terms of reference of a
commission. This should help relations
with the Country party.
Western European economic union is
steadily developing. Following the
Benelux Customs union of the three Low-
land countries and the negotiated
Franco-Italian Customs union awaiting
ratification, the three Scandinavian States,
Norway, Denmark and Sweden, have
announced that they are considering a
similar arrangement, with Iceland also
possibly included.
Announcing a big drive to increase
Britain’s exports to North America,
Harold Wilson, president of the Board of
Trade, said the campaign “offered one
of the greatest challenges to British mer-
chant adventurers.” Almost while he
was saying it his party was encouraging
the adventure spirit among British mer-
chants by proclaiming that if returned at
the next election it would nationalise
sugar-refining and cement-manufacture
and hinting that the shipbuilding and
chemical industries would be next on the
list. This glad news was contained in
a manifesto entitled “Labor Believes in
Britain.” British newspapers are asking
whether Britain believes in Labor.
In Britain Cripps’s latest Budget sug-
gests that, after being obliged to sacrifice
its overseas investments to the winning
of World War 11, the Old Country is
now lavishing all its home savings of
generations past on the erection of a
Socialist economy. When Cripps says
that “there is not much further possibility
of redistributing the national income,” it
is a sign that some “tall poppies” must
be left standing in order to produce tax
revenue. Among the expressions of
shocked indignation in the British Socialist
ranks the prize goes to the Utopian who
remarked that he heard “with amaze-
ment and alarm” that Cripps was “try-
ing to place part of the cost of the
National Health service” —which is fast
bankrupting the country —“upon bene-
ficiaries of the scheme,”
Because a fitter did not buy a ticket
for a union picnic—he offered the price
as a donation —employees at a Newcastle
powerhouse have banned overtime until
he is sacked. Last Wednesday Concilia-
tion Commissioner Austin ordered the
A.E.U. and A.R.U. to lift the ban, giving
them a week in which to do so. At the
week-end it was still in force.
Holloway confided to the Easter
“Labor” conference in Melbourne that
the Federal election will be held in
November; he declined to tip the actual
date. Since fireworks are to be expected,
the Saturday after Cup Day would be
most appropriate.
Well aware of the aptitude of the un-
thinking to rush something for nothing,
the Chifley crowd keeps on calling it
“free” medicine. Any man on a salary
or any sort of income above the basic
wage has only to look at the “social-
services contribution” amount on his
income-tax form to see how “free” it
will be.
The Ward uniform-gauge plan, esti-
mated costs of which vary from £lOO
million to £lOOO million, looks like stay-
ing in the pigeonhole till it goes blue-
mouldy. Biggest opponent of the scheme
is Ward’s own State ; McGirr is of the
opinion that by agreeing to the plan New
South Wales would receive too little and
pay too much. That sums up the situa-
tion as far as Australia is concerned, too.
It is impossible to escape the conclusion
that with Ward and Federal “Labor” the
principal value of the project is as a
gigantic relief scheme if a “recession”
happens along.


ANOTHER PLAGUE.
“Mr. Chifley has left for London to attend a Prime Ministers’ conference. British Socialists are talking of ‘full nationalisation’ if they win the next election.”
“This serum is not in our Government formulary, Mr. Chifley, but before you go near Attlee and Cripps I’d advise a shot in
the arm as a precaution against a possible attack of socialisation-pox.”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Verast”: I have often wondered what
happened to the sergeant’s portable
gramophone. With one needle and six
records it arrived at Milne Bay with the
platoon gear in July, ’42. By means of
the field ’phone we managed one night,
without knowing it, to reach Brigade
H.Q. with a musical broadcast which
wasn’t intended for anyone else but the
sigs. at Company H.Q. During the pro-
gramme an appeal was made for needles,
and a few days later we received by
special messenger a rather tough type of
thorn. We thought someone was having
a joke till we found that we could play
half a record before the thorn broke
down. Just before the arrival of the Nip,
our sergeant decided the instrument
might become a liability, so he sold out
to a Yank on the uncompleted Turnbull
strip for a fiver and a quart can of beer.
After that we lost track of the music-box.
We would also like to know what hap-
pened to the beer. It was reported “lost
in action,” but we were never quite sure
what kind of action.
* * * . *
“P.0.M.C.”: Joyriding has been a
recreation of man since the days of
chariots. Tastes vary, of course. I know
a man who actually gets more fun out of
a merry-go-round than his kids. Again,
some people consider a ride to La
Perouse on a Sunday tram pleasant.
Others disdain anything less swanky and
comfortable than a limousine jaunt to
Bulli or Leura and back. Then there’s
the cove who will push a bike 50 miles
before lunch for the sheer pleasure of it,
while in recent years shanks’ pony has
been ridden to death each week-end by
thousands; most “riders” humping what
looks like a tent, bed, pantry and stove.
But the trump in my opinion turned up
in Gosford (N.S.W.) courthouse the other
day. Asked by the Beak if it were not a
fact that he worked on the sanitary
wagon, witness replied: “No, I only go
on it for the ride sometimes.”
* * * *
“Jemac”: If the Performing Rights
Association or whoever is responsible for
banning radio music in pubs (B. 6/4/’49)
can extend their activities to tourist-buses
they will earn this tourist’s lasting grati-
tude. We were headed for the Blue
Mountains, on a sky-blue autumn day,
the seats were as comfy as advertised, and
even the driver, noting points of interest,
put a nice spin on his yarn. All was well
before he filled in the gaps by tuning to
a commercial programme. We pulled up
at a monolith marking the spot where
Blaxland and co. crossed the Nepean. Its
simply-worded text evoked a thrilling
image of lean, tough men saddling up,
packhorses jibbing at the ford, and, the
river crossed, the leader staring a moment
at the hazed escarpments ahead of them,
the brief squaring of his shoulders and
the arm waving “Forward!” —until an
air-waved voice bawled from Sydney
the efficacy of a widely-taken head-
ache-powder. Later my first glimpse
of those wonderful drapes of blue veiling
the Jamieson Valley was shattered by a
vociferous description of a trip on the
Chatanooga Choo-Choo. All of which
convinced me that the only way to “find”
the Mountains is as the first explorers
did—with a dumb packhorse.
* * * *
“Colonial Cove”: Senator Cooke,
impromptu historian (B. 30/3/’49), should
be well up in the history of the various
William Adamses, as Bill of Waterloo
occupies 6ft., of Westralian soil; I have
often looked at his tombstone in the old
Alma-street cemetery: “To the Memory
of William Adams, a Hero of
Waterloo.” Bill, with wife and
family, arrived at Swan River in
May, 1831, an indentured servant to
Mr. Thomas Peel; a passenger on the
“Rockingham” along with about 160
others. When the Peel colonisation
scheme faded. Bill, one of the few who
stuck to the unfortunate Thomas, moved
with his family to Mandurah, the capital
of the Peel principality. However, the
only thing that Peel had to offer being
semi-starvation, the Adamses later moved
to Fremantle. It was there in his anec-
dotage that Bill won immortality as the
hero of Waterloo. His wife, Jane, was
a heroine. When Bill passed on and her
family of six grew up she became Fre-
mantle’s chief midwife. The Fremantle-
ites whom she ushered into the light ran
to hundreds, maybe thousands.
* * * *
“Chevroford”; National Gallery direc-
tor Daryl Lindsay is planning a major
aesthetic attraction for the Cup-week
frenzy. It will be a show of sporting
pictures, and private collectors are being
asked to send examples. The Gallery
“Could I see your ticket, sir ?”
has several of its own, including a
genuine Herring, Herring was the coach-
painter and stage-coachman who took to
immortalising racehorses and painted the
winners of the St. Leger for 33 years.
A Herring is regarded in sporting circles
with the veneration of a Velasquez. Mr.
Lindsay himself is responsible for a Phar
Lap which turned out a best-seller.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: My chief recollection of
Seymour Hicks (B, 13/4/’49), whose first
Australian appearance was in “The Man
in Dress Clothes” at Melbourne Palace
in 1924, was of an astonishing rapidity
of utterance and a passion for gagging
his lines. The first quality often served
to cloak the triteness of dialogue allotted
to him, for the only piece he played in
this country with any pretensions to good
drama was “Scrooge.” The second did
not endear him to Australian audiences,
who are quick to detect unauthorised
interpolations of the actor’s alleged wit.
He had hosts of imitators, but the busker
who came closest to his model was
Hastings Lynn, whose most successful
effort in this direction was in “The
Cuckoo in the Nest” at Melbourne’s
Kings. As he mounted the stairs to spend
a platonic night in the leading lady’s
bedroom he said: “Well, all I can say is,
I’m going to have a devil of a time, even
if Hinkler did land at Darwin at six
o’clock tonight.” As the entire continent
was anxiously awaiting news of the
arrival of the Bundaberg boy on his epic
flight from England, it naturally brought
the house down. The date was February
22, 1928.
* * * *
“Ebrius”: The iceman is busily
trimming a one-and-a-penny block when
an irate voice thunders “What the hell
are you chopping the ice off for? I’m
a wake-up to you—chop it all off and
it melts quicker.” “But” says Ice-o
feebly. “But nothing!” thunders the
voice. “Stick it all in the chest next time,
and I’ll chop off anything that needs to
be chopped,” Argument impossible, Ice-o
pushes off. Next time he calls he picks
the largest block, complete with jagged
end, and pushes it into the chest, leaving
a 9in. tail poking out the door. In the
next street as he continues on his round
he is fronted by a red-faced, hard-swearing
gent. From his remarks Ice-o deduces
that his presence is required at the scene
of the 9in, tail. At the house his ex-
hilaration is barely concealed as the crest-
fallen housewife asks for another block.
Beside the tomahawk lies a splintered
mess of melting ice. “Trim it next time,
please, Ice-o,” she mutters.
* * * *
“Zake”: She rang the landlord of the
furnished cottage. Would he come
around and see about the carpet-sweeper?
It wouldn’t pick up anything. The land-
lord was puzzled. So far as he was
aware no simpler piece of mechanism
had ever been invented. When he pressed
the lever the two flaps opened but no-
thing came out —it couldn’t, being jammed
so tightly. The brush, he estimated, had
about four miles of cotton threads around
it. “No wonder it wouldn’t work,” he
said. “It hasn’t been cleaned out! ” The
tenant’s brows lifted. “Do you have to
empty it?” she asked.
* * * *
“Dalmore”; Country guest-houses are
not what they were (B. 30/3/ ’49). I
remember the first holiday I spent away
from the family, a little more than twelve
months after I started work. The adver-
tisement said; “Tennis, golf, riding, etc.
Good table.” The tennis-court was good
enough, though we rolled and marked it
ourselves ; for golf there were nine empty
jam-tins sunk in various parts of a pad-
dock. The only horse I remember was a
draught the proprietor used for plough-
ing ; but the food really was good. Pork
chops for breakfast; three chops on your
plate and three more if anyone asked for
a second helping. Cold meat for lunch,
served on plates larger than we had at
home, and as many helpings as we could
eat. Then came stewed fruit —apples,
pears, quinces or peaches, all home-
grown-served in soup-plates, with a
quart jug of cream on each table. The
evening meal was similar, except that the
main dish was roast pork or lamb. In
my youthful enthusiasm I once got as
far as the fourth soup-plate of stewed
quinces and cream.
“LM.Q.”: Country guest-houses (B,
30/3/’49)? One I stayed at recently had
rooms divided into two by partitions
which did not reach to the ceiling. Hotel
rates were charged for “single” rooms.
There were no plugs in the bathrooms,
and I was told that guests were expected
to provide their own. Forty guests, forty
plugs!
* * * *
“Henry”: G.B.S. may have given us
the right-of-way to end sentences with
prepositions, but I doubt if even that old
rebel would see eye-to-eye with the
manner in which his “lesson in grammar”
was headlined in a Brisbane paper. In
its eagerness to cut loose on final prepo-
sitions it overlooked the fact that it still
is not all right to spell “all right” alright.
* * * *
“Isa Lei”: A large anchor mounted
on a concrete base at Moana, a small
coastal resort south of Adelaide, can still
cause fireworks among old-timers of the
district. Which ship did it come from —■*
Nashwaulk or Tigress? Both vessels
were wrecked near the same spot in early
colonial days. Tigress was a coastal
vessel, allegedly used by smugglers whose
H.Q. was where Moana stands today.
Nashwaulk was a much larger vessel.
An immigrant-ship on her first voyage
to Australia in 1855, she had an inflam-
mable cargo of 130 young Irish women
brought out as domestics. To celebrate
the approaching end of the voyage the
master ordered an extra cask of rum to
be broached. Vigilance was relaxed, and
when, early one misty morning, a flashing
light was seen, it was mistaken for the
beacon at the Semaphore anchorage.
The vessel turned in and was soon hard
aground. Subsequently heavy seas broke
her up. What the local residents could
not salvage time and tide soon buried
in the sands near where the Tigress had
previously come to grief. Many decades
later a low tide exposed an old anchor.
It was hauled ashore, and the Noarlunga
council mounted it near the beach. Be-
cause of its size it is generally thought
that the mudhook came from the Nash-
waulk, but because a vociferous minority
of old-timers avers it belonged to the
Tigress the council decided it had better
remain anonymous.
* * * *
“Dong”: There is only one substance,
I had thought, which will cause man to
bend himself over like a question-mark
and yet smile as he carries it home in a
suitcase. Accordingly, when my neigh-
bor carted a heavy bag through his front
gate recently and threw me a cunning
wink I downed my lawnmower and
headed over to the fence, all smiles. I
told him he was the luckiest man I’d
met and that I’d been trying to get some
myself for months. He looked at me
curiously and announced, “Plenty more
where this came from. I can get a case
of it every night.” He set the bag down
on his path. It emitted no “clink,” He
undid the catches, picked up the case
and emptied the earth it contained on
his rockery. “Great soil at school,” he
told me. “Bringing home my garden a
bagful at a time.” All my plans for
good-neighbor policy and co-prosperity
sphere went out like a light.
* * * *
“E. & 0.E.”: A cyclist in Essex (Eng.)
found on the roadside a key bearing on
the one side the inscription: “The National
Telephone Co., Ltd., Subscriber’s
Trunk Pass 2606,” and on the other, “ss,
reward at Oxford Court, Cannon-street,
London.” He posted the key to address
given, but the National Telephone Co.
had left there over 50 years ago, and for
the last 37 years its identity had been
merged in the Post Office. However,
when the letter explaining the find finally
reached the Controller of Telephones,
London Telecommunications Region, the
P.M.G. paid over the promised ss. and
placed the key in the Post Office museum.
* * * *
“X.S.”: There were smiles years ago
after the Melbourne police had failed to
solve a famous murder mystery when it
was announced that the force was going
all intellectual and psychological and
would give up its old rule-of-thumb
methods. Last week Senior-Constable
Norman McCallum, medico-legal chemist
to the police scientific bureau, put on the
green hood of a Master of Science, and
his younger brother Allan McCallum
donned the light-blue-and-white hood of
a Bachelor of Commerce and rolled up
before the Chancellor of the University
to receive degrees in their subjects. The
elder one won his degree on a thesis on
the “Distribution of Ethyl Alcohol in
Body Fluids.”
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: Now that the celebrated
Hope diamond —“for three centuries
the curse of all who have owned
it” —has been sold to a New York
gem merchant for a million dollars,
a spotlight will be thrown on its
latest possessor, his wife (if any), family
and poor relations. Murder, madness,
suicide, poverty and disaster have
allegedly dogged the diamond’s owners.
Said to have been stolen from a Hindu
temple by a French explorer, it was
brought to Paris, its first victim being
Marie Antoinette. Abdul the Damned
later acquired it, shot his wife while it
was reposing on her bosom and then lost
his throne. Its last owner, the multi-
millionairess Mrs. McLean, lost her only
son in a car accident, saw her husband
enter a mental institution and her
daughter, at whose wedding she wore the
lethal emblem, die of an overdose of
sleeping-tablets. The present possessor
regards the omen as childish nonsense on
the ground that most famous gems have
had a similar reputation, and it is idle to
suppose that they could exercise any in-
fluence either for good or evil. The
statistical evidence is of no importance.
Millions of similar histories could be
traced in families which never owned the
Hope diamond, and there is no reason for
supposing that the course of the French
Revolution or the shoddy regime of Abdul
would have been altered if the principals
in the case had never heard of the costly
object. There is more in the psychological
aspect. A tradition of madness in the
Byron family—they were called the “mad
Byrons”—produced eccentrics in every
generation, and the poet himself con-
stantly thought he was going mad, and
did his best to fulfil the tradition. B®
was boned by the tradition. I wouldn t
like to have the Hope diamond m my
family—-I would be thinking of it every
time I crossed an intersection.
CELTIC ANCESTRY.
• “Immigration Minister Calwell, defending his
action over the O’Keefe and Gamboa cases, said he
had been described as a heartless monster, but his
Celtic ancestry had given him as tender and senti-
mental a heart as any man.”
A curious ground whereon to base
The claim one’s heart is bound to be
Full of goodwill and tender grace
For all the far-flung human race
Because of Celtic ancestry.
A deal of doubt I’ve often felt
About what constitutes a Celt.
A somewhat vague, elusive phrase:
“The primitive inhabitants
Of Europe,” Doctor Johnson says,
“Were mostly Celts in distant days.”
A biologic circumstance
Suggesting few of us indeed
Haven’t some tincture of the breed.
Such modern handbooks as you strike
Agree to rate in Celtic ranks
Irish and Highland Scots alike
Tallies, along with Mac and Mike,
Also the Cornish and the Manx,
The Anglo-Saxon being, I
Suppose, too mixed to qualify.
1 The Celtic bards are hard to beat
We’re told, for lines where fire is felt;
But Tennyson, more smoothly sweet,
Somewhere condemns “the schoolboy heat
And blind hysterics of the Celt,”
A view perhaps that still exists
Despite Hibernian eulogists.
Though force and fire and eloquence
Of Celtic heritage are part,
If Calwell draws as well from thence,
O’erflowing with benevolence,
A singularly tender heart,
One finds it somewhat hard to tell
Where he conceals the article.
N.S.W,
T. THE R.


“Becks”; I heard a rumor that the
Commonwealth Bank was adopting a
customer-comes-first policy. I hope the
habit spreads to Government depart-
ments. Lately I called on some of the
P.M.G.’s minions to see how my appli-
cation for a phone, lodged three years
ago, was progressing. It wasn’t. Three
years ago there were 700 ahead of me on
the list; now there are 940. That was
bad enough, but the clerk having con-
vinced me there was nothing I could do
about it, I turned to leave. With several
others I waited for a descending lift. The
door opened and an official got out. We
moved to enter. “Next lift down,” said
the liftman, shutting the door, and he
sailed down half-empty. We moved to
the adjoining lift-entrance. Down came
a lift and out stepped an official. “Next
lift down,” said the liftman, and down he
went. The third time we were lucky.
Next day I visited a building which
houses the overflow of several Federal
departments. It was round about one
o’clock and a crowd waited on the ground
floor. A lift came down, disgorged its
passengers, the door slammed and up it
went empty. The adjoining lift came
down, emptied out its load and shot up
again, empty. A third one repeated the
procedure. By this time the first lift
was down again. As the last passenger
got out one of the waiting crowd thrust
his foot in the door, “Not taking pas-
sengers up,” said the liftman. “Why
not?” asked the bloke. “Have to get the
staff down for lunch,” explained the lift-
man. “Look,” said the bloke who was
holding him up, “We’ve come here to pay
Government accounts. If it wasn’t for
people like us you and the rest of the
staff wouldn’t be having any lunch.”
By this time he and the rest of us
were in the lift, so the pilot gave
in, but he left no doubt in our minds that
he regarded us as a bunch of gate-
crashers.
* * * *
“Spinifex”: We read a lot about
migrants who can converse in several
“It was definitely a mistake. Miss Smith, to advertise that We had
those cottages to let”
languages; but there’s nothing to it,
really. Last night I heard one in action.
He boarded the train at Hornsby. With
him was a golden-haired chatterbox
(made in Australia) who could have talked
non-stop to Central without changing
gears; all she needed was a momentary
pause for a fresh intake of air. They
spoke of many things ; at least the blonde
did. At Warrawee she drew a deep
breath and the bloke said “Ach!” At
Turramurra she paused momentarily and
he grunted “Ooogh.” At Gordon she
was a bit too quick for him, so he just
nodded; but at Chatswood the lady
appeared to ask a question. That baffled
him a bit; but he wasn’t beaten. “So! ”
he commented, with a tolerant smile.
The blonde was off again. From then on
the fellow repeated himself shamelessly:
though he did take a risk once When he
said “Yah!” but mostly he just grinned
and said “Ermhmhmhm.” At North
Sydney, where he left the train, he bowed
and smiled graciously ; the blonde prattled
a farewell. Then, as there was no one
else to talk to, she spoke to me. “He’s
rather wonderful, you know,” she con-
fided. “He’s only been ou| here a few
months; and already he can carry on
a conversation in English.”
* * * *
“5 G.R.”; “Hamer” did not record
what he said to the bloke who claimed
his pen-name. Having read his stuff over
many years I imagine he merely grinned.
A friend of mine was less restrained.
He won the D.S.O. at Pozieres and
Military Cross with the Indian Army in
the Khyber Pass. Came a day when he
was rabbiting on his property. A car
drew up and a dustcoated, biggish man
strolled across the paddock with military
bearing and presented a card which pro-
claimed him as Colonel So-and-so, repre-
senting a firm of rabbit-fumigators, “My
battalion was the 7th,” he opened. “I
commanded C company; four V.Cs.
at Lone Pine and all that.” “Well,
it’s hard luck for you,” my friend ex-
ploded. “I commanded that company.
There’s the gate.”
* * * *
“Ceg”: It was a meeting of creditors
in a city accountant’s office. There we
sat: the bank’s representative, the grocer,
the representative of a city store, a
tailor, another accountant on behalf of
the butcher and milkman, and the first-
mortgagee. There were several others.
The position was put to us and a com-
promise suggested to save bankruptcy
proceedings. Then the debtor was
brought in. He was very surly, bad-
mannered and rather resentful. After
various creditors had had their say, the
debtor produced a pawn-ticket for a
diamond-and-sapphire ring. “That’s how
things stand,” he said. “My wife’s en-
gagement-ring in pawn.” Well, it looked
bad, but nevertheless no agreement could
be reached and the meeting adjourned.
It was raining hard outside, and we stood
in the doorway waiting for it to ease off
before making a dash for the tram.
Then down came the debtor; brushed
roughly past us all, crossed the
footpath, hopped in to a large sedan car
and drove off. Well, Shakspeare laid it
down hundreds of years ago never to
be a lender, so it was our own fault.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: I’ve often wondered
whether the American method of prevent-
ing accidents would be effective here. A
grisly sign by the roadside drawing atten-
tion to the fact that so many persons
were killed in an accident at that spot
would horrify the Australian motorist—
the first time he saw it. At the third
or fourth time of passing it would be-
come a joke; and after that I doubt
whether it would even be noticed. No ;
the Australian method is far superior. An
accident occurred on the road I travel
regularly; no warning sign has been
erected near the spot, yet no motorist has
raced past that place since. Should a
driver pull out with intention of passing
another car up that grade the impulse
is quickly smothered and the vehicle drops
dutifully behind. At one time it used to
be common to see trucks speed up the
rise and over the crest with the wheels
straddling the centre-line. But not now.
“What a savage!”
What has brought about this unwonted
caution? Merely the fact that the
accident shattered the car’s windscreen
and scattered the fragments all over the
road. A bare 9ft, right over against the
paspalum is the only safe track, and, as
it is nobody’s business, apparently, to
move the glass, the spot should be acci-
dent-free for months.
* $ * *
“Helldud”: The “ting of the telltale
bell” which Sappho Smith heard 50 years
ago (B. 13/4/’49) probably puzzled some
readers. Tram troubs today travel light
compared with the footboard acrobats of
the old steam-trams. Champion weight-
carriers, they lumped a heavy leather
bag and cash, signal-whistle on strap of
chain, and, suspended from their necks
on a leather harness, two metal con-
trivances of nickelled brass, each weighing
over a pound, equipped with bells and
meters. When the guard pulled a handle
on these gadgets they registered each
penny fare collected either by cash or
ticket, at the same time ringing the bell.
To the facetious these machines were
known as “brothers-in-law,” and many
troubs were credited with carrying home-
made cash-registers and leaving the
official one at the depot to be picked up
when they “weighed in.” Many guards
did wax fat, despite their microscopic
stipends. Introduction of the present
book-tickets meant the end of the
“brothers-in-law,” official and home-
made, and many of the old bell-pullers,
resenting the cramping of their style, rang
a final peal and chucked in their bags.
* * * *
“McPoint”: “Helldud” (B. 30/3/’49)
may be right in placing the year of his
first movie, but he is away out in his
location of the show. The attraction he
describes was in Pitt-street, next door to
the Arcadia Hotel, and was introduced to
Sydney by Hugh J. Ward and Frank
Musgrove. I ought to know; I was the
lad who was concealed behind the screen
and whose job it was to imitate the noise
of the locomotive.
* * * *
“Clooter”: America is full of rumors
about the manner of President Roosevelt’s
death. Some believe he isn’t dead at all, but
in a mental asylum; others say he sui-
cided ; still others say that enemy agents
killed him. A number of Americans have
taken to writing to the White House about
it, offering theories or asking for informa-
tion. It takes me back to 1916, when
cruiser Hampshire hit a mine while carry-
ing Lord Kitchener to Russia. Within a
month of the news being released rumors
flew. Kitchener wasn’t dead, was being
kept in secret to delude the Germans;
he’d escaped to Russia and was secretly
investigating Russian failures ; he’d been
murdered because the British were tired
of his old-fashioned ways; he’d been
given a large sum of money and invited
to disappear ; spies had got him; it was
a bomb in the ship, not a mine, that
ended him. Kitchener’s body was never
recovered. Even in, Mildura (Vic.) a
stranger who appeared for the fruit-pick-
ing and who bore a strong resemblance
to the missing leader, even to the
moustache, was accused of being him,
and half the town was calling him
“Kitch” until he shaved off the mo.
* * He *
“Eureka”: Shortage of building
materials brings some strange results. Out
Fairfield (N.S.W.) way a Chinese built
rather a neat little cottage, but, materials
running short, he used secondhand doors
from a demolished hotel. The frosted-
glass panel of the front-door announces:
“Gentlemen,” the back-door “Bottle
Department.”
*** * <
“Pitt St.”: Smith was complaining
about the poor summer Sydney had this
year. “The climate’s changing,” he said.
“No doubt about that. You never get
the summer weather now we got in the
old days.” Everybody agreed with him
except the small, spare man with the
domed forehead. “It’s a popular mistake,
Smithy,” he said. “But climate doesn’t
change. You might get variable weather
or an unexpected change, but climate
doesn’t change,” “Rot,” declared Smith,
aggressive because he knew he had the
group with him. “Whadda you know
about it, anyway?” he added. “Aw, it
isn’t me,” said the little man. “It’s the
dendrochronologists. They say so and
they ought to know.” There was a
stunned silence. One or two asked for
the word again and got it. Neither Smith
nor anyone else could argue about it.
The talk swung to racehorses. I looked up
dendrochronology. * It’s tree study. The
age of trees is told by rings. Widely-
spaced rings mean dry years, closely-
spaced ones wet years. Study of them
shows there’s been no climatic change
in 650 years—at least, that’s what the
dendrochronologists say.
* * * *
“H.W.M.”: Getting the “engaged”
signal is sometimes a blessing in disguise.
A Melbourne solicitor tried four times to
raise another legal light to inform him
that his client was unable to pursue an
appeal because of lack of funds and in-
tended to drop the matter. Before he
was able to try a fifth time he was him-
self rung up by the other solicitor, who
made an attractive offer of settlement.
* * * *
“M. 1.5.”: To comment on the blue-
ness of distant hills must seem to the
average Australian like remarking that
trees are green. I was surprised, therefore,
on reading Raven-Hart’s Canoe in Aus-
tralia. close on the heels of Ratcliffe’s
Flying Fox and Drifting Sand to notice
that both authors said, in nearly identical
words, that they had never seen really
blue hills till they came to this country.
Both men apparently travel with their
eyes wide open, so we can take it that our
hills are exceptionally blue. Can anyone
explain why? I’ve always understood that
the blueness of distant hills depends on
the diffusion of the blue light-waves by
particles of dust and moisture. Is our
atmosphere especially dusty or moist, or
does the explanation lie in differing in-
tensities of sunlight?
* * * *
“Jurumudi”: The good old days were,
in fact, good old days. One hundred
years ago the Melbourne “Morning
Herald” printed this item:
Overseas news by the latest files do not
seem very important. In a later issue we
will publish further details, as new adver-
tisements have arrived for this issue. The
matters about which we, at a glance, regard
as likely to be expressed refer to the Pope
and Italy, affairs of Denmark, Pope and
Portugal, Queen of Spain, Abd el Kader,
Louis Napoleon’s Ministry and the Royal
Etchings.
Imagine a cable-editor today considering
the latest speech of Dr. Evatt at U.N.0.,
wars and rumors of war in China, Malaya
and Poland and Stalin’s latest disappear-
ance to the Crimea of less importance
than some recently-arrived “n e w
advertisements.”
U.N.O. OR UNO?
Some papers write it U.N.0.,
The joint where Evatt runs the show
With front-page headings in the Press
For being It at Lake Success.
They use full-stops as signs to tell
The tag is a trisyllable,
One built to rhyme with few we know.
Nearer than Spanish bueno.
Others assert their right to run
Three opening letters into one.
By punctuation undeterred
For brevity they coin a word
From what were once, we all must know,
Initials ab initio,
A noun devised to run in tune, O
My brothers of the pen, with Juno.
UNO or U.N.O? It’s hard,
Believe me, for a doggerel bard
Who ranks among his craft’s worse crimes
False quantities and rocky rhymes,
When he’d an artless lilt indite
Not to be sure which version’s right
And which is wrong. Who holds the key
When editors must disagree?
Still, far as one may judge, the dud
Debating club is in the mud,
And now the flag may soon be hauled
Down, who should worry what it’s called?
Since such a broken reed it’s been,
To mark its exit from the scene
What fitter caption could there be
Than three more letters —R.1.P.?
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


eartaer
What special knowledge must your trustee possess?
FINANCE;
INVESTMENTS:
(MANAGEMENT s
Has he an expert knowledge of finance]
and the wise use of income?
Does he understand investments? Cani
he exercise impartial judgment? Is hej
alert to markets and trends?
Has he had a wide experience in the;
management of properties and estates?
TAXATION:
TRUSTEESHIP*
Is he conversant with the intricacies
of tax legislation?
Is he alive to his responsibilities as a
trustee? Can he be unbiased in
decisions? Will he be continuously
available or pre-occup.ied with his own
affairs to the neglect of his duties as
your trustee?
The Trustees Exceptors and Agency Company Ltd. brings to trusteeship and estate administration an
expert knowledge gained by the successful handling of thousands of estates. Its services “go on forever,
are continuously available. Ample security is given for the performance of trusts. Consult your solicitor,
or write for Free Booklet.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman) ; Sir Lennon
Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; Sir Alan Newton,
M.S., Melb., F.R.C.S., Eng.; G, D. Young.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY,
401 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £964,692.
NEW SOUTH WAUES DIRECTORS:
Dr. H. J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.A.C.P. (Chairman);
John Cadwaliader; Sir Ueslie Morshead, K.C.8., K.8.E.,
C.M.G., D. 5.0.; David Wilson, M.A., L.LJB., K.C.
N.S.W. Manager;. C. B. R. Cowdery.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
THE WILD CAT COLUMN
National Mutual Life Association
Added
Sept., Income. Claims.\ Expenses.* to Funds.
£ £ £ £
1943.. 6,552,288 3,619,596 528,133’
Written off premises, £lOO,OOO • 2,104,559
Written off other assets, £200,000
1944.. 6,884,448 3,633,893 568,572"
Written off premises, £lO,OOO 2,668,032
To staff fund, £3,950 .. I
1945.. 7,208,804 3,822,276 626,481 ]
Written off fixed assets, £12,270 \ 2,743,727
To staff fund, £4,050 ..J
1946.. 7,886,078 4,051,405 839,673]
Written off fixed assets, £96,654 1 2,698,346
Exchange adjustment, £200,000 J
1947.. 8,533,867 4,042,303 962,341 ]
Written’ off fittings, £24,218] d,oUi),UUJ
1948.. 9,300,665 4,448,507 1,065,303 ]
Written off assets, £40,000 .. >■ 3,646,855
’ Exchange adjustment, £100,000.. J
* Excluding income tax and rates.
“Save for security” has always been the
appeal behind life assurance, and is likely
to remain so. And the big mutual offices,
of which the National is one, have played
an important part in the democratisa-
tion of wealth, and they are a stabilising
influence in the social and economic struc-
ture as well. They have been the largest
individual contributors to war and other
Government loans, and the thrift of
policyholders through payment of pre-
miums has helped to ease the pressure
of accumulated spending-power in a
market in which many goods are still in
short supply.
Since the mainspring of savings is to
provide income, there has been a strong
and growing demand for the protection
that life assurance thus affords. Here are
the National’s new-business figure:
1939. 1947. 1948.
Policies .. 28,382 48,672’ 50,462
Amount .. £10,158,497 £23,377,113 £25,942,346
Annual premiums - 363,755 938,<905 1,012,534
Av. per policy 358 480 514
Av. premium p.c. 3/11/7 4/0/3 3/18/0
“Full” employment, inflation (which has
the effect of lowering an assured’s life
cover) and the popularity of group assur-
ance-subsidised staff superannuation
schemes —have all helped to put pep into
the figure, too. Group assurance, which
promises to raise some intricate actuarial
and other problems before long, was re-
sponsible for most of last year’s increase
of £2,565,233. The- average apiount per
policy (£514) increased by £34 and the
average premium p.c. (785.) was 2s. 3d.
lower, both healthy signs. Another
pleasing feature was the tight hold kept
upon controllable outgoings in the face
of rising costs. Including £20,000 (up
£11,232) sent to the staff fund, total exes,
made off with 11.62 p.c. of net income
as against 11.63 p.c. in 1947.
After deducting rates and taxes
(£26,588, down £19,791), income from all
sources (£9',300,665) increased by
£766,798, of which £674,618 .was in re-
spect of premiums (£6,945,921) and
£92,180 was on account of net interest,
rents, etc. (£2,354,744). After payment
of all legitimate claims —mortality ex-
perience was well below expectation—and
exes., £3,786,855 remained, of which
£40,000 was used to write down the book
value of assets and £lOO,OOO for exchange
adjustments in connection with the trans-
fer of funds to S. Africa ; this involves
the co. in no pecuniary loss. The other
£3,646,855 was added to the assurance
fund, making it £68,333,508, which sub-
stantially exceeds liabilities under policies.
In addition there was £2,518,821 of other
reserves, which also belong to policy-
holders —there are no shareholders. Also,
over the last six years £483,142 was
written off the book value of premises
and other assets, thus strengthening inner
reserves.
The unholy trinity of high taxation,
cheap money and a restricted field of
investment has, over the last decade, cut
into net interest earnings and bonuses to
policyholders—a common experience. To
protect future bonus-paying capacity the
co. gradually lowered the basis of valuing
its policy liabilities from 3 p.c. in 1940
to an all-over 2\ p.c. in 1946 at an aggre-
gate cost of nearly £2,000,000. Although
actuarial and other reserves have been
strengthened substantially since, it is
doubtful whether any marked increase in
bonus rates need be looked for at present.
Gross rate of interest earned on mean
funds last year was £4 os. 3d. p.c. (down
2s. 2d.), and the net rate (after deduct-
ing rates and taxes) was £3 12s. Id. p.c.
(down Is. 2d.). This trend is likely to
continue for a while, because as old
securities mature and the money is re-
invested, the rate earned on total funds
will approach that available from new
investments.
To help offset the low return from
Government paper, more attention is be-
ing given to industrial and other securi-
ties :
r 1947 1948 N
p.c. p.c.
Freeholds, etc. .. £1,917,264 2.8 £2,122,786 3.0
Public securities 48,851,546 71.0 50,232,237 69.2
Mortgages . . 8,807,559 12.8 9,267,555 12.8
Loans on policies 3,675,457 . 5.3 3,752,868 5.1
Other assets . . 5,581,596 8.1 7,149,j130 9.9
Last term £1,380*691 was added to public
securities, £205,522 to freeholds, etc.,
£459,996 to mortgages and £1,567,534 to
other assets. Lastmentioned include
shares in Fourth Victorian Permanent
Building (£979,322, up £272,264), deposits
with the same society (£2,296,600, up
£623,600), and pref. and ord. shares
(together £961,361, up £286,502). This
is largely a reversion to the investment
policy followed by life offices, here and
in England, at the beginning of this
century.
City Electric Light Co. (Brisbane)
, Dividends ,
Jan., Profit. Ord. Pref. Total. Reserves.!
£ £ £
1943.- 104,423 5j p.c. 6 & 7 p.c. 104,423 1,509,307
Written off debenture exes., £3944 .. 1,513,251
Net additions reserves, £110,346 .. 1,623,597
1944.. 153,856 5J p.c. 6 & 7 p.c. 104,496 1,672,957
Written off debenture exes., £3941 .. 1,676,898
Net additions reserves, £97,916 . . 1,774,814
1945.. 167,016 5i p.c. 6 & 7 p.c. 104,496 1,837,334
Written off debenture exes., £3940., 1,841,274
Net additions reserves, £102,179.. 1,943,453
1946.. 163,251 5J p.c. 6 & 7 p.c. 127,407 1,979,297
Written off debenture exes., £715.. 1,980,012
Net additibns reserves, £120,938.. 2,100,950
1947.. 159,047 5i p.c. 6 & 7 p.c. 130,473 2,129,524
Added debenture exes., £Bl6 .. 2,128,708
Net addition reserves, £149,022 .. 2,277,730
1948.. 198,486 5 J p.c. 6 & 7 p.c. 157,847 2,318,369
Net addition reserves, £158,041:. 2,476,410
1949.. 260,779 5J p.c. 6 & 7 p.c. 182,401 2,554,788
t After deducting intangibles (now £110,606).
Interest in this big public-utility co.’s
scrip centres mainly in the ords., and
rests firstly on the security aspect and
secondly on prospects of capital gain
from new share issues (at par) to help
finance expansion of the undertaking.
The co. is the executive instrument in the
big scheme for extension of electric
current throughout south-eastern Queens-
land, and attends to generation, reticula-
tion, maintenance and a host of other
problems upon which the success and
efficiency of the undertaking depend.
The div. is anchored by legislation at 2
p.c. above the rate carried by voluntarily-
subscribed Government loans issued dur-
ing the preceding year. Prices for current
are fixed accordingly, after allowing for
exes., depreciation, a moiety (1 p.c, on
capital) for reserves and the cost of de-
benture and pref. money. While Govern-
ment policy remains one of cheap money
and the cost of living continues to rise,
this formula for calculating the wages
of capital operates counter-clockwise to
the formula for reckoning the wages of
labor. At the moment the effect is
counterbalanced by new share issues at
par, which are in the nature of bonuses
to shareholders because of the premium
at which the scrip stands in the market.
The div., steady at 5i p.c. for the seven
years to close of accounts in 1948,
dropped to 5| p.c. last term, and looks
like remaining there for a while.
At Jan. 31', 1949, paid capital was
£4,052,564 in 20,000 6 p.c. and 125,000
7 p.c. prefs. and 3,908,915 ords., all of
£1 each —there was still £1351 to come on
the 1,013,479 ords. issued, one-for-three
at par, in Jan., 1948. In front of the
share capital is £1,512,000 of debenture
stock, costing the co. on the average 3.68
p.c. p.a. Another £500,000 of debenture
money is soon to be gathered “at a
favorable rate of interest,” and later in
the year those on the ord. register are to
be asked for more —-amount not yet an-
nounced. The co. has a £6,000,000 pro-
gramme ahead, much of it in connection
with the new Bulimba “B” power-station,
foundations for which are being laid.
Last year £1,017,719 was, spent on
capital account, of which £515,555 was
in respect of country districts, where
250 miles of new lines were erected. In
the Tweed River district (N.S.W.), where
the co. holds a long-term franchise, the
expenditure amounted to £28,453:
' 1939. 1948. 1949.
Capital .. .. £1,398,226 £3,089,348 £4,052,564
Debentures .. 1,512,000 1,512,000
Sundry creditors. . 179,925 499,754 549,924
Property, pl&nt,
mains, etc. .. 2,180,699 6,648,303 7,666,094
Stock . . . . 120,912 623,126 607,664
Book debts, etc... 190,639 157,183 235,351
Cash, public securi-
ties, etc. .. 235,874 71,811 256,501
The capital outlay and growth of £78,168
in book-debts was met mainly by intro-
duction of £963,216 of fresh share capital.
Sales of current increased by 35 million
units, or 17 p.c. After adding
£158,041 net to the depreciation reserve
(£2,025,311), the profit (£260,779, up
£62,293) covered statutory div. require-
ments with £78,378 to spare. That lifted
total reserves £2,554,788 in excess of
intangibles (now £110,606). Although the
price of current to consumers might be-
come dearer, the chairman hopes that
the upward trend of cost will be arrested
during the current year.
Anticipating its benefits, the market
prices the ords. at 305., giving an imme-
diate return of 3.4 p.c. on a 5| p.c. div.
basis. The investor at 30s. who looks for
approximately 4 p.c. on his money counts
on a one-for-three new issue at par. The
6 per cents, at 30s. and the 7 per cents, at
345. 9d. each yield 4 p.c. Net tangible
cover is 225. 7d. per pound of paid
capital—all rank equally for
surplus assets.'
London Stores, Ltd, (Melb.)
, Dividends N
Pref. Ord, To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. 9 p.c. 12£ p.c. serves serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1941.. 34,003 9,000 25,000 3 100,392
1942.. 33,998 9,000 25,000 100,390
7i P-c.
1943.. 24,022 0,000 15,000 22 100,412
1944.. 24,366 9,000 15,000 366 100,778
12i p.c.
1945.. 36,689 9,000 25,000 2,689 103,467
1946.. 45,825 9,000 25,000 11,825 115,292
1947.. 43,705 9,000 25,000 9,705 124,997
Unexplained addition, £5OOO .. 129,997
1948.. 47,091 9,000 25,000 13,091 143,088
1949.- 53,558 9,000 25,000 19,558 162,646
* After deducting goodwill (now £16,659).
Retailers are still in clover. Continued
inflationary pressure of “full” employ-
ment at increasing wage rates, a rising
national income and bigger Government
spending, especially on social services,
combined with a better flow of goods
pushed turnovers to fresh peaks during
the last 12 months. So, despite lower
gross margins and a “considerable in-
crease” in exes., this tailoring, mercery
and sporting goods business, situated at
the corner of Bourke- and Elizabeth-
streets, one of Melbourne’s busiest inter-
sections, was able to show net earnings
£6467 stronger at £53,558 —best since the
business was converted to a public co.
38 years ago.
The , £53,558 was enough to pay the
9 p.c. pref. div. —a reminder of the dear-
money days of the 1920’s —and show an
attractive 22.2 p.c. on the £200,000 of ord.
capital as against 19, 17.3, 18.4, 13.8, 7.6,
7.5 and 12.4 p.c. back to 1942. The div.
was kept at 12-y p.c. for the fifth year in
succession, making the average a shade
under 11 p.c. for the last 13 years. On
net tangible shareholders’ funds (capital
and reserves combined, less £16,659 of
goodwill) the year’s profit was 11.5 p.c.,
a high rate which suggests lively trading,
shrewd buying and a tight hold upon con-
trollable outgoings.
How long retail turnovers will continue
to expand, and so absorb rising costs, is
difficult to say. Export prices have re-
ceded a little from recent peaks, which
were mostly famine prices, and there are
tremors overseas which suggest that the
post-war boom has passed its peak. Still,
Australian incomes generally remain at a
high level, and the recent lift in child
endowment and promised reduction in
income-tax rates at end June have en-
couraged spending, and so has the Feb-
ruary lift in the basic wage, in which a
further increase is anticipated in May
this apart from the ridiculous claim for
£lO a week now being made by the unions.
Truth is that more money without the
compensating counterweight of more
goods will only go on pushing prices up
until the whole economic structure be-
comes topheavy. As the purchase of
day-to-day consumption-goods absorbs
more and more of current income the
range and volume of other purchases will
be restricted, with the inevitable result on
retail turnovers. Still, there is nothing
in sight at the moment to suggest that this
co.’s \l\ p.c. div. is likely to be interfered
with.
The co. buys and sells largely on a cash
basis. Of the £128,396 of outside liabili-
ties, only £29,396 (down £2706) is trade
debt, the other £99,000 (unchanged since
1934) is secured by a mortgage on the
freehold:
1940. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital.. £300,000 £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Liabilities .. 106,282 128,328 131,102 128,396
Tax provision 5,000 30,000 30,000 35,000
Property, etc. 414,888 441,366 441,708 444,456
Plant, etc. . . 6,360 1,509 1,839 2,693
Shareholdings 5,804 4,188 4,188 4,188
Stocks . . 88,146 95,406 127,472 170,832
Book debts .. 6,127 12,910 18,126 18,490
Cash, etc. .. 10,348 42,947 28,857 383
The growth of £43,360 in stocks was due
to rising prices and brisker trading. Cash
was drawn upon for £25,474 to help
meet the outlay. The year’s growth in
the more-or-less liquid surplus (£30,497)
was £15,956.
At 495. 9d. (51s. a year ago) the ords.
return a satisfactory 5 p.c. on a 12| p.c.
distribution. The prefs. at 41s. 2d. yield
4.4 p.c. Net tangible cover is £4 12s. 6d.
prefs. and 365, 3d. ords.
Richardson and Wrench, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1941.. 9,017 14 p.c. =: 7,350 \ ~ n 9.
Staff bonus, £3OOO .. J *"*
From tax reserve, £1675 .. .* 15,701
Loss.
1942.. 83 5 p.c. = 2,625 12,993
Unexplained reduction, £5OO .. 12,493
Profit.
1943.. 3,482 6 p.c. = 3,150 332 12,825
1944.. 2,035 5 „ „ 2,625 12,235
1945.. 7,515 10 „ „ 5,250 7
Staff bonus, £1750 .. f I^7&u
1946.. 11,129 15 p.c.= 7,874 \ 14 QO5
Staff bonus, .£2OOO .. J i4,UUO
1947.. 4,866 124 pc. = 6,562 12,309
194-8.. 8,128 12| „ „ 6,563 1565 13,874
This is one of Sydney’s leading real-
estate businesses, and its earnings follow
the ups and downs of the metropolitan
property market. The improvement last
term reflects the freeing of urban land
from official control. Instead of the
rocketing of values that some had ex-
pected, the open market settled at levels
above the unduly repressed official ceil-
ing but well below old blackmarket
figures. “In nearly every case, buyers
of vacant land are now able to discrimin-
ate, and even negotiate, to their own
satisfaction,” says R. and W.’s chairman,
Telford Simpson, who was moved to
add:
Should the regulations controlling invest-
ments in city properties, factories and
homes exceeding a price of £3OOO be lifted,
the result, I have no doubt, would be the
same as in the case of vacant land, if for no
other reason than that the control of rents
which still prevails would have a stabilising
effect. In addition, the so-called and much-
talked-of blackmarket would disappear.
The problem of finding commercial office
and other space in the city has been
rendered more acute by the Government
using its resumptive powers to take over
existing buildings, or portions of them,
and evicting tenants of long standing
who, because of restricted building opera-
tions, are unable to find suitable alternate
accommodation. Because of all this sub- •
stantial sums are paid on the blackmarket
as “key money.”
The co.’s new stock-and-station depart-
ment also contributed to earnings, and
so did collection of an unstated, overdue
amount of interest on a mortgage. A
small increase in the authorised scale of


m
A!'
m
m
THOMAS TAYLER
A spectacular figure that has been associated
with Lloyd’s of London, from the coffee-house
days of the seventeenth century until the
present time, is known as “the Waiter.”
Although for the past two hundred and fifty
years his duties have been those of a commis-
sionaire, he is still referred to as “the Waiter.”
Such a one was Thomas Tayler, who occupied
the position from 1778-1796.
■fa This little thumb-nail sketch, which we
hope will be of interest to you, is one of a
series of personalities who were prominent in
the early days of historic Lloyd’s of London.
EDWARD Lll N LEY
& SONS PTY. LTD.
A wealth of experience in all phases of Insurance, gained
through long association with Lloyd’s, underlies the service
that we place at your disposal through our branches in every
State of the Commonwealth.
Your inquiry for further information would be welcome,
EDWARD LUMLEY & SONS PTY. LTD.
263 George Street, Sydney, and 33 Watt Street, Newcastle.
Insurances effected at
EL.21.16
AND ALL OTHER STATES
Public Notice.
LAKE VIEW AND STAR, LTD.
(Incorporated in England.)
INTERIM DIVIDEND No. 64.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that a First
INTERIM DIVIDEND of SIXPENCE per
share sterling in respect of the year end-
ing 30th JUNE, 1949, less United King-
dom Income Tax at NINE SHILLINGS in
the £ (Two decimal point seven pence
per share sterling) has been declared and
will be payable on Ist JUNE, 1949, to all
persons registered as holders of shares on
the Australian Register at the close of.
business on 28th APRIL, 1949.
The Net Dividend is equal to Three
decimal point three pence per share
sterling.
The Transfer Books will be closed from
29th APRIL to 3rd MAY, 1949, both days
inclusive.
For LAKE VIEW AND STAR, DTD.,
R. D. MORRISON,
* Local Secretary.
Kalgoorlie, W.A., 9th APRIL, 1949.
For Sale.
FOR SALE: ONE 14 H.P. COLO-
NIAL BOILER, complete with mild-
steel casing, new 30ft. smoke stack
and spare tubes.; W.P. 1001 b.
NORTH QUEENSLAND ENGIN-
EERS & AGENTS, Box 297, Phone
2994, Cairns.
. DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
ORIIKI
PISHiNG - SHOOTING - YACHTING
aert
SJORM PRO
/ FULLY GUARANTEED
(' LIGHTS EVERY TIME
\ Available at all leading
I tobacconists and stores
,f Australian Agents:
emfNfi * fiOiMNa,-
Maurice Newstead Pty. Ltd., Sydney
Leonard F. Newstead Pty. Ltd., Melb.
Rupture
Sufferers —try the new Roussel Free.
Enables you to do hard work with
comfort and security. Definitely
holds, a condition absolutely necessary
for improvement.
Recommended by doctors and thou-
sands of satisfied users. Satisfaction
guaranteed, no matter where you live.
1701717 Call or send stamp for
r I\rX FREE details, self-measure-
ment form and U days’ free trial
offer. No obligation.
The Roussel Appliance Co.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
THE AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
/7//er
«*ESSSSS
Cylinder
areter
art
GUTHRIDGE
PTY., LIMITED,
10-12 Parramatta Koad,
Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
mm
iuvjMjwy
jpg
[[; . «»*.- • *•«»••■ “•*'**■
*£-:<*•■■■^ 0e » MC,ft9eispo<9O0 * ee * :nnonr^^
THE "EMBASSY"
Designed to meet extended needs up
to 25 instruments, the “Embassy”
enables immediate communication
with one or more instruments for
two-way conversation or group con-
ferences. With this highly versatile
set you can add further instruments
as required without Installatipn diffi-
culties.
ater
Made in Australia—for Australia’s needs
legtrophone
IS ELECTRONIC— the simplest form of Inter-communication yet devised
The Electrophone is the logical way to cut down overhead because it eliminates those
time-taking searches for executives, facts and figures. Electrophone on your desk means
efficiency at the tip of a finger. Electrophone installations are available to cater for a
organisations— no matter how large. These comprehensive, superbly finished instruments
are already in use throughout Australia. Speedy installation is assured.
NEW PAGING DEVELOPMENT
In addition to individual contact with each member of your staff, Electrophone permits
you to Page throughout your whole organisation from any instrument.
For full details ring, or post the coupon at bottom. We will post full details of the
Electrophone immediately.
THE "TWIN SET"
Ideal for professional men or
for home use. No installa-
tion necessary, just plug in
as you would a wireless.
£2B/15/- COMPLETE.
Immediate Delivery.
MAGDOUGALLS
PIT. LIMITED
Head Office: SYDNEY: 58 Clarence Street, BX 1151.
MELBOURNE: 116 Queen Street, M 1731.
ADELAIDE: 40 Grenfell Street, Cent. 1467.
AND THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
SOL.E DISTRIBUTORS: Victor (British) Adding: Machines—Smith-Corona Type-
writers— Merchant Calculating Machines—Elliott (Australian) Addressing Machines.
POST THIS COUPON NOW!
TO DEPT. D,
MACDOUGAUES PTY., LTD.
COBONEL HOUSE, 56-58 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Please post me
full details of the
Electrophone
Installations
Available.
NAME
TYPE OF BUSINESS
ADDRESS
Please fill in the above details or attach to your
letterhead.
commissions and fees chargeable
by agents —first change for over
25 years—came too late to bene-
fit last year’s figures. The im-
provement in gross earnings was
£7899:
1942. 1947. 1948.
Commissions,
etc £19,115 £26,726 £34,625
Exes 19,198 21,860 26,497
Net profit £B3* £4,866 £8,128
* Loss.
Including something for taxation,
exes, made off with £4637 of the
gain, leaving the net result (up
£3262) at 15.4 p.c. on capital as
against 9.2, 21.2, 14.3, 3.8, 6.6, a
loss and 17.1 p.c. back to 1941,
the year before the Government
anchored real-estate values and
before inflation began to make
itself felt. The div. was kept at
12i p.c., making the average for
the last four years 12i p.c., com-
pared with an average of 7.8 p.c.
for the preceding five war years,
and 9.8 p.c. for the half-dozen
years before that.
Balance-sheet figures compare
as follows:
1939. 1947. 1948.
Capital .. £52,500 £52,500 £52,500
Liabilities .. 10,720 53,567 40,846
Freeholds, etc. 65,650 65,650 ■
Equipment .. 1,190 1,675 2,050
Advances .. 27,361 9,257 2,017
Shares in other
cos . .. 2,976 2,976
Cash, etc. .. 50,800 40,724 37,888
Sundry debtors 4,338 4,856 5,326
The freehold is Eldon Chambers,
93 Pitt-street, Sydney, bought
about three years ago for
£65,000.
At 355. (395. a year or so ago),
the f.-p. 15s. shares return 5.3
p.c. on a 12i p.c. div. basis, or
4.3 p.c. should the distribution
drop to 10 p.c. Cover is 18s. lid.
in net tangibles.
The disposal sale at Clermont
(C.Q.) recently held by Gold
Mines of Australia marks the
collapse of one of Central
Queensland’s big schemes. Some
£40,000 has been spent in the
past two years investigating the
extension of gold-bearing gravels
between the old diggings of
Black Ridge and Miclere fields,
which had no mean production
at the beginning of this century,
G.M.A., after doing over a
year’s drilling in testing the
gravels with apparent success,
selected an undrilled area for
their shaft, and the drives there-
from did not carry more than a
trace of metal. It appears that
the shaft bottomed on one of
the many blank areas which
have even been found in and
about the fields already worked.
Instead of starting underground
mining in an unknown area,
probably the best policy would
have been to start in a known
auriferous area and work to the
unknown. It has been asserted
that because the scheme was so
big the field had to be reason-
ably good all over to assure suc-
cess. Many will think this a
fallacious idea, for the charac-
teristically isolated rich patches
in these gravels have been so
phenomenally rich that pockets
assaying hundreds, if not thous-
ands, of ounces per ton may be
struck. History shows that speci-
mens up to 30oz. of gold have
been won, and that such finds
were invariably accompanied by
areas of smaller stuff. When
3dwt. is the all-over minimum
value required, such finds and
areas would cover a multitude of
blanks like the one just aban-
doned.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Wippegong”; These fellows that are
always shouting the news to their
neighbors are rarely the shrewdest judges.
There’s a pair of soldier-birds at the back
of our place. They announce sunrise,
the baker, the grocer, all the dogs that
pass, the neighbors’ trips to the woodheap,
etc., the hanging-out of washing—every-
thing that happens and much that doesn’t.
From the height of a treetop they second
Billy the Wagtail as he spars with the cat
at a range of 2in., and vary it by advising
the cat how to trap William. Let a robin
or a bronze cuckoo lend a hand in rid-
ding the garden of grubs, and the speakers
drop everything and tear into the visiting
toilers; then they cap it by going half a
mile away and spreading tales ahead of
the honest but less garrulous fowl. They
rarely stand erect, but have acquired the
prying stoop of the true “nosey,” together
with staring eyes and a mouth loose from
overuse; for they are much too busy
advising the world at large ever to have
learnt any deportment themselves. But
since this wet, mild autumn has brought
lush growth with the corresponding
abundance of insects, there is a ripple of
well-controlled amusement amongst the
better-mannered birds, though us lesser
mortals are chuckling aloud. For the
soldier-birds are building again. They
yapped about it plenty at first, but now
the nights are getting nippy they’re having
less to say. They seem to have spent
extra time lining the nest —don’t blame
them ; but I’m waiting to see, should any
chicks emerge, if these smarties will be
able to keep their offspring warm and
fed during frosty weather and still find
the effrontery and time to counsel those
with better sense.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Well, the Sydney show
is over and Stoneman is full of joy.
“Have I had a time!” he said. “Old Jim
Delahoy sent me a wire saying he was
coming an’ would get in on the train at
half-past six in the morning and would
I meet him because he hadn’t got any-
where t’ stay. I get t’ the station a few
minutes late, hang around, but no sign o’
Jim. Y’ know what a headstrong cuss
he is. Instead o’ waitin’ on the station
he reckons I never got his wire or some-
thin’ an’ decides he’ll make for my place
on his own. He gets a taxi an’ gives
the driver my address an’ off they go.
The driver says it’s good weather for the
show an’ how’s the country an’ when
was Jim in Sydney last. Jim says the
country’s all right an’ he hasn’t bin here
siqce 1921. So the taxi-driver Istarts
tellin’ Jim how his old man once had a
farm at Uranquinty an’, o’ course, Jim
asks him t’ have a drink. The driver
says he can’t pull into no pub, so Jim
pulls out a bottle o’ whisky an’ they
start nippin’ at it an’ talkin’ an’ the cab
keeps goin’. Well, presently the driver
pulls into the kerb an’ says t’ Jim that
he can’t drive while the road’s goin’ up
an’ down like that an’ he goes t’ sleep.
Jim sits there a while an’ tries t’ wake
him up, but it’s no good. So he reckons
he ain’t goin’ t’ be left like that, shoves
the driver over an’ takes the wheel him-
self. Next thing he knows a copper on
a motor-bike gives hirrr a wave. Jim
waves back an’ goes on. A little bit
later a big car chock-a-block with police
stops Jim, the police grab him an’ rush
him t’ the station. He’s got about £l5O
on him for the show an’ the races, see,
an’ they reckon they got one o’ them
inter-State crooks an’ charge him with
everythin’ from pinchin’ the cab, knockin’
out the driver an’ robbin’ him to being
a suspected person. Yair, I’m glad Jim’s
gone home.” “How did you know all
this?” “Gripes,” said Stoneman, “didn’t
I tell y’? They found my name an’
address on Jim an’ a herd of ’em rushed
oqt an’ pinched me, too. It took us
nearly all day t’ get the thing straightened
out, an’ I bin dodgin’ Jim ever since.”
* * * *
“Telarb”: In the halcyon days when
axemen were axemen and not merely
wood-bruisers, there arose in a hostelry in
s.-w. Queensland a giant of a man, well
in his cups, to proclaim his unrivalled
ability as a blade-wielder. In the opposite
corner an insignificant wisp of a man
introduced himself as one who would
deny the claim. With much talk, abuse,
self-praise and the demolishing of vast
quantities of grog, the relative merits and
demerits of both were discussed, upheld
or denounced throughout the day.
Finally, in the late afternoon, when the
argument reached the point that only a
demonstration could settle it, the little
fellow invited the big bloke to come out-
side and put his head on a log, when
he, the little bloke, would promise to
knock it off with one clean blow. The
big chap guffawed and, making a nasty
crack about his opponent’s inability to
chop enough chips to light the kitchen-
stove, he accepted the invitation, and the
whole beery mob adjourned to Bung’s
woodheap. The big bloke staggered to
the chopping-block, knelt down and stuck
his neck out across it. The little bloke
reeled around till he found the axe ; spat
on his hands and swung Kelly aloft.
The mob chuckled. This was better than
a circus—a real pair of showmen —and
they waited for the inevitable anticlimax.
But there was no anticlimax. The little
chap made the downward stroke and the
big bloke’s head rolled on to the ground.
“No, you cant have a private suite—you'll go with the rest.”
From here the details are a bit sketchy,
but it is stated that the little bloke looked
at the still-fluttering eyelids of the de-
capitated head and said: “Look! The
cow doeshn’t believe me yet!” The fore-
going is a fact —the chopper got 10 years
for manslaughter.
* * * ♦
“leather Dhu”: About 52 years ago
Herbert Hoover, afterwards President of
the United States took over the manage-
ment of the Sons of Gwalia mine, three
miles from Leonora (W.A.). Had
“Bumpkin” (B. 30/3/’49) been in
Leonora a year or two before
Mr. Hoover he would have seen
the National Bank, a large corner pub,
and five or six shops and stores being
built of mud-brick ; substantial buildings,
cool, cheap and excellent. They were
easily bagged inside because of the clay’s
plasticity, after which they were lime-
washed ; the outside, smoothly-plastered
in clay and oiled (linseed), appeared like
smooth, dark linoleum, and with white
facings looked really well. The writer
left in 1908 ; the buildings were then 12
years old, and were as good as when
built. Gwalia, incidentally, is unique in
Australia, inasmuch as there English,
Irish, Welsh, Australians, Italians, Aus-
trians, Czechs and Slavs have mixed for
more than 50 years, and their children
and grandchildren have intermarried, the
result being a community of hardy,
worthwhile, tolerant Australians.
* * * *
“Betcha”: Struck a rabbit with nerves
the other day. First spotted him sitting'
up confidently a few yards from the
place where I’d just mended a hole in
the fence. I whistled, and the old sheep-
dog, together with a useless, infuriating
apology that tags along, gave chase. The
bunny hit the fence with a surprised
bump, rebounded, triad again, then hastily
made for a burrow I had dug out. A
couple of times he ran unbelievingly
across the loose earth before abandon-
ing it for the next burrow. That, too,
was dug out, and so was the next. Several
times the dogs missed him by a fraction
before he located an undisturbed hole.
It looked shallow, so I swung the mattock.
As it landed, frenzied squealing broke
out below, and, warily, I suspected a
snake and other unlikely causes. It is
common enough for Brer to squeal when
he is about to be picked up by the dogs,
or when a trap gets him, but it must have
been a good 10 minutes before I struck
the end of that burrow, and the] little
cuss never let up his screaming till he
was dragged out.
* * * *
“1.M.Q.”: Bringing in her twin sons
for the first time, the nurse asked cheer-
fully: “Did you want boys or girls?”
But Mary, already the mother of nine
picaninnies, didn’t even bother to look
up. Pulling the blanket over her head,
she replied “Never had a cravin’ for none
of ’em!”
* * * *
“B. Fair”: “Lower Tops’l” (B. 6/4/’49)
had better mix a bit more Yarra with it.
No cormorant ever surfaced with its
dinner half-way down its neck ; the diver
makes his catch under water, comes to
the top, then turns the fish and swallows
head-first. The digestive powers of a
cormorant are very juicy; within an hour
a good-sized fish will have been digested.
“L.T.” also says that for two hours the
eel was still alive, although half-way
down ; within 15 minutes the eel would
have suffocated, at the end of an hour
the part inside would have been digested,
at the end of two hours not even that
protruding flapping tail would be seen.
Anyhow, I’ve never seen a cormorant
tackle an eel 3ft. long; the diver doesn’t
want 3ft. of eel twisted around his neck.
More likely the eel was going for the
bird.
* * * *
“No, 1 Bench”: The suggestion that
the C.S.I.R. has found 500 kinds of wood
so loaded with silica as to be indifferently
edible to the marine borer (B. 16/3/’49)
sounds quaint. Investigations along such
lines have been pursued in Britain and
U.S.A. for a century without much re-
sult. Of all commercial timbers two
only are positively resistant —Californian
redwood ( sequoia ) and Scandinavian
pitch pine, with W.A. jarrah a poor third.
None of these contains any appreci-
able amount of silica ; their resistance lies
in an inherent essence of the wood
being distasteful to the teredo. As
for silica being a deterrent, it might be
interesting to see how bamboo is affected
by the marine borer. Bamboo is the
silica-container par excellence; it is virtu-
ally sheathed in it. It is from silica that
its hard, shining surface is derived.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: Phillip Island
is not the only breeding-ground of
penguins in Victoria (B. 30/3/’49). There
are rookeries on Great Glennie, Rabbit
and other of the islands north of Wilson’s
Promontory lighthouse (the islands to
the southward belong to Tasmania), and
there is also an extensive rookery on
Gabo, five miles from the N.S.W. border.
Only this year the latter place was in
the news when the lightkeepers there re-
ported that hundreds of young penguins
in their burrow-nests were dying of star-
vation because their parents had
to return. During the war years, w
upwards of 100 R.A.A.F, and |¥Li"
sonnel were stationed on Gabo, the n
blue-and-white birds, not liking the -
trusion of homo sapiens, departed,
when the servicemen left the featnere
swimmers drifted back. A queer train g
about penguins is that, like mutton-birds,
they don’t breed on the mainland o
TasSie or Victoria —possibly because or
the dingo—nor do they build on the larger
islands of a group. For instance, on
42-mile-long Flinders Island, where
originally there were no dingoes or
blacks, none of these avian burrow-nests
exist. But the dozens of off-lying islands
constitute the greatest known breeding-
ground for mutton-birds, and there are
many large rookeries of fairy penguins.
* * * *
“Anthropo”; No population of a small
island carved and erected those statues of
Easter Island (B. 30/3/’49). The drift-
voyage undertaken a few years ago by a
party of Norwegians suggests that the
Polynesians may have journeyed out from
S. America. The fact that statues strongly
resembling those of Easter Island stand in
the uplands of Peru and Bolivia makes
the probability stronger that the island
was once thickly populated, and further
confirmation is forthcoming from the
fact that great churches, pyramids, etc.,
are found only in places which once sup>-
ported big populations, as in Egypt,
Babylon, etc.
* * * ♦
“Mat’s Mate”: The day after we’d
settled in the hut the boss arrived with
what he called our rations for the week.
As far as we could see they’d last us
about three days. As the boss put the
canned meat, sugar, tea, flour and so
forth on the table Mat and I looked at
each other. “Did y’ say that was a
week’s issue?” Mat asked. The boss
frowned at him. “Gripes,” he said, “what
did y’ reckon it was? There’s plenty
there.” Mat eyed the stuff, then he went
out and came back with some sticks and
old bagging. “Here,” he said, handing
me and the boss some sticks and bagging
each, “wherever y’ see a hole in the wall
stuff it up.” “What’s the big idea?”
demanded the boss. “Look,” Mat said.
“When me an’ me mate got here last
night we saw a mouse. We got t’ pro-
tect ourselves. It’d be a nice thing if that
flamin’ mouse got in t’night an’ happened
t’ be hungry, an’ ate all our flamin’ tucker
in one go, now, wouldn’t it?” The boss
went red. Then he stalked out to the
car. “All right, y’ hungry cows,” he
yelled at us, “nobody ever said I starved
me, men. I’ll be back this afternoon.”
* ♦ * •
“Wippegong”: I wonder if all the
names in David Campbell’s yarn
“Dooley’s Cod” (B. 30/3/’49) were
fictitious, or if he, too, has pleasant
memories of “Coppin’s Crossing” and
worked it in. It’s one of the many quiet,
inviting corners in the Capital Territory.
Sighing sheoaks line the Molonglo where
it is crossed by the track that links the
Canberra-Cotter road with the northern
one from the Holy City, past Weetangerra
and Belconnen to Hall, on the Yass high-
way. Belconnen was once part of a
grant to Sturt, later an out-station of
Yarralumla, and as both were then Camp-
bell properties, the yarnspinner possibly
knows them better than I do. But the
Crossing was a favorite camping spot.
It’s good at the bridge, but about half a
mile upstream the river makes a right-
angle turn to the west, in the process
scooping a large pool at the foot of
low cliffs. Completely sheltered, you
could there usually steal up on a good
flock of wood-duck on the water (parties
to recent controversy please note), and
between the casuarinas fringing the cur-
rent and the steep bank behind lay a
grassy strip that wasi a camper’s dream.
Secluded there I listened to the fieriest
speech I ever heard. A bloke was bring-
ing a couple of hundred sheep down the
hill opposite toward a small gate that
opened on to the river frontage, and he
was “assisted” by a young kelpie, to
which, apparently, any whistle meant
“Scatter ’em!” while “Get behind!” was
interpreted as “Get me a rabbit!” The
shepherd then descended from his horse,
opened the gate, slithered round the stony
hillside on foot and got the sheep
through; then he shut the gate and
addressed his hound. He traced its
hitherto-unpublished ancestry right back
to an obscure unmarried jackal, then out-
lined the pup’s future after such times as
he could get the animal within reach
again. This seemed a doubtful date,
as the dog, about 50 yards away, was
doing a hornpipe to avoid the stream of
waterworn gibbers that flew his way. In
a region where orators are assembled the
local man stood supreme; Archie
Cameron in his most pungent moments
was a cooing dove by comparison.
mate had a cold and went black m the
face stifling coughs so’s not to rum the
recital.
ECHUCA WAY.
The deep, brown Murray waWrs glide
Echuca way—
They sweep and swirl and roll and slide
Like turning wheels that ever pray;
And as they roll the shadows say
“So long, Echuca, so long, you
Loveliest port the steamers knew.”
When there were turning wheels afloat
* Echuca way,
Each steamer-whistle had its note—
Defiant, sweet or sad or gay—
Off old Campaspe they would say,
“Hullo, Echuca, hullo, you
Old port whose welcome’s always true.”
From western rivers far they came
Echuca way...
The dark trees saw their funnels’ flame;
By rocky reef or billabong,
The old moon heard the steamers’ song,
“Hullo, Echuca, hullo, you
Happiest port, we ever knew.”
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


“Solitude”: It was pouring rain, and
Seventyfiver decided he’d put in the
morning mending traps. Returning to
the hut before midday I found the floor-
space occupied by the old bloke, a large
box, a bucket, a varied assortment of
part-mended traps, while spare bits and
makeshift tools cluttered everything from
the table to the doorstep. After a hazard-
ous negotiation I took refuge on the
bunk and began mending my oiler. A
bit more hammering, a few more grunts,
and the old bloke glanced at the clock.
He dragged out the 'camp-oven and
chucked another bit of wood on the
fire; then, stepping over the traps, he
skirted the box, climbed round the
bucket, shuffled past the spares and,
reaching the meat-safe, hacked off a slab
of meat. “Goin’ to have a hunk o’ this,
Sol?” he asked presently, as he dropped
it into the hot fat. “Yair.” Once more
he stepped over the traps, and with a
pause here and there, and a few secret
mumblings, again gained the meat-safe.
Hearing its door squeak. Blue arrived,
walked over everything he couldn’t con-
veniently avoid, and planted himself on
the vacant foot of space by the fire.
Seventyfiver turned with the second piece
of meat. He dodged the tools, shuffled
round the bucket, skirted the box, stepped
on Blue’s rudder, tripped and landed
“Nark!"
in the camp-oven. “You big, awkward-
lookin’ blasted nuisance,” he bawled,
scrambling out hurrie’dly. “Git out, can’t
y’? Dunno what the hell y’ want t’ come
in for,” he bellowed after the retreating
mong. “Takin’ up all the flamin’ room
so a man can hardly walk about!”
* * * #
“Billy T.”: Now that the shadows are
stretching in our valley and the first
westerlies have stung us into laying in
more firewood, the beer has dropped to
the correct temperature. Years ago, when
Mr. O’Reilly kept the hotel, all he did to
meet the advancing demand for modern
method was to flips a wet has oyer the
keg—“l drank it war-r-r-rm whin I was
a bye and that’ll be good enough for
ye.” He sold out to a fiery widow, a
Mrs. Dooley, whose beer was little
cooler than her temper ; and the hopes
of the regulars fell as, after the first few
weeks of new management, no sign of
a chill could be detected in the brew.
The climax came when old 6en fished a
saucer out of his pocket and deliberately
filled it from his schooner. “What’s the
“Look, Pop—no hands or feet!”
idea of that?” demanded Mrs. D. “That,”
drawled Ben, “is to cool me beer in.”
off ,„’ she snapped . Andjt was!
* * . . . ~
“Gidyea George”; Away back in the
’eighties a teamster was taking loading
to Austral Downs, on the Barkly (Q.).
His horses, tired, jibbed at the pull up
the north bank of Gidyea Creek, between
Lake Nash and Austral, so he unhtfr-
nessed them , Gidyea Creek came down
during the night and covered the bottom
layer of goods on the wagon. In those
d th used to pack ceme nt in casks,
with no tin j inside. Today, on the
bank of Gid yea Creek, solid blocks of
concrete witk tke staves of the casks
stm sho wi ng , stand as a monument to
tbat carr j er ’ s bad luck,
* * * ♦
“Passage Pilot”: The best camouflage
among birds is that adopted by the Torres
strait pigeons. They visit northern
islands in millions during the summer
months. They’re big birds, snowy-white
w ith black edges, and they show out
pr ominently on a tree. It is possible for
a man a couple of hundred yards away
to pick out individual birds in a swarm
which laces a tree, but when he gets close
it w iH be difficult for him to see a single
bird. Their plumage might harmonise
wk h the white gum-boughs on which they
re st; the black edgings might show as
shadows; more probably the excellence
G f the camouflage is due to their habit
Q f sitting perfectly still and parallel with
the limb. In common with the parrots.
they have two claws behind and two
j n front.
* * * * .
“Kali”: Whilst the the exist-
enco of “men with long tails” is common
in all States of the Malay Peninsula, only
natives of Pahang are willing to admit
that the monstrosities live in their own
State. Ahmat will even point out conclu-
sive evidence —crab-holes which have
allegedly been made by the appendages
of the strange men when they sit around
in conference. Centuries ago, so the
legend runs, the ruling Sultan had a
beautiful daughter who was struck down
by a mysterious illness. All the skill
of the palace medicine-men being of no
avail, the Sultan issued a proclamation
stating that whoever could cure her would
be offered her hand in marriage.
Hundreds tried unsuccessfully, and the
girl was slowly sinking when a long-
tailed monkey came to the palace and
claimed he could cure her. His brew of
herbs did the trick, but when he claimed
the jeward the Sultan sternly refused.
But the animal asked to be placed beneath
an attap covering for three nights, after
which the Sultan would see he would be
worthy to marry his daughter. The Sultan
agreed, but after two days his curiosity
got the better of him and he lifted the
cover. There lay a beautiful youth
whose transformation was complete ex-
cept that he still retained his simian tail.
He was annoyed at the cover having been
removed prematurely, and insisted that,
despite his tail, the girl should still be his
bride. Sorrowfully the Sultan agreed, and
they were married; from these two were
descended the race of tailed men who still
inhabit the fastness of Pahang.
**- * *
“Blime”: “That cove always knocks
about on his own,” said Dill, indicating
a lone figure on the pub verandah. “Ain't
popular with the mob. Too damn’ silly,
if y’ ask me.” He shook his head pity-
ingly at the bloke. “Wouldn’t do me.
Gripes, the station mob see I don’t miss
out on nothin’. Insisted on me goin’
fishin’ with ’em last week-end. Reckoned
it wouldn’t be as good if I didn’t go. We
camped all night on the head o’ the
Warrigal. Know it?” I nodded lazily.
“Gripes, it’s a long way,” Dill resumed.
“The blokes was wonderin’ where I’d got
to, but hang it, I had t’ lead the flamin’
pack most o’ the way. Yair, an’.the big
bundle o’ rods was awkward in the scrub.
Had a bonza trip though,’* He grinned
reminiscently. “Charlie started growlin’
the first night about the way ’is fish was
cooked, but the mob soon shut ’im up.
‘Don’t you take no notice of him, Dill,’
Bruiser says t’ me. ‘Your cookin’s
a lot better’n nothin’, if I do risk me
reputation sayin’ it. An’ y’ washin’ up
an’ camp fixin’s’d do credit to a jackass.
When we go out t’ the Big River next
month I’ll take out a spare line an’ y’
can have a go y’self round the camp
sometimes.’ Yair, an’ I’m lookin’ forward
to it.” Dill landed me a dig in the ribs,
with an anticipatory chuckle. “Gripes,
yair,” he concluded. “I’d hate be one o
them unpopular sort o’ blokes.”
* * * *
“Zake”: Dad had acquired a horse, and,
to Dave’s mind, was rather fatuous about
its chances in the Corn-Fed Stakes. Dave
used to sling off about its points, and it
came as a shock to him when his parent
announced that he was to ride it. Mak-
ing the best of a bad bargain, Dave before
going to the starting-post advised Dad to
have something on each of the first three
favorites in the hope at least of getting
back his stake that he was about to “pour
down the sink.” Before the race was
quarter-run Dave’s mount was tagging the
field by several lengths and losing ground
with each stride, and as they went around
the scrubby patch at the half-way mark
Dad clawed his hair as he saw the moke
run off the'course. As Dave trotted back
about five minutes after the rest had re-
turned his sire irately demanded to know
how he had been stupid enough to allow
his mount to run off. “Struth! ” said Dave
disgustedly “ I told you he was a crock
.right from the start, didn’t I? Just
a screw at his hammer-and-tack, will y’?
Its got a belly, in it like Mum’s clothes-
line when she’s washed the blankets. I
sagged down in it so low I couldn’t see
where I was goin’ for his bobbin’ head,
and the goat’s so cockeyed himself he
shot off at a tangent!”
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: It is undeniable that
there must be instances of men fighting
it out without spectators egging them on
(B. 30/3/’49); nevertheless, it is not
common. Man is a gregarious animal
and, quite apart from “egging on,” spec-
tators seem to give him confidence. The
strongest-nerved man I ever knew was
a carpenter who would “walk Blondin”
along the lin.-wide ridge of a high roof;
but he confided to me that he once
funked walking along a 4|in.-wide wall
when he was working on a job alone. As a
boy I was a strong, if slow, swimmer.
I loved the water, yet several times I
sat on the river-bank for hours —fright-
ened to go in the still, silent water. When
another kid arrived, even though he could
scarcely dog-paddle 10 yards, I immedi-
ately became full of confidence. For
years I thought the complex was peculiar
to myself; then I found a youth sitting
on the bank for the same reason. The
surf has a similar effect on the “occa-
sional” surfer. If he is honest he will
admit that when surfing alone or as one
of a small group the thought of sharks
is never far from his mind ; you will see
his watching for fins in every breaker and
keeping within a very discreet distance
of the sand. But when surrounded by
his fellows he’ll cheerfully venture out
to the fourth breaker.
He * * *
“Chuck”: Bert was telling me about
a recent flood in a near district. “Ten
flamin’ inches o’ rain in three days; see?”
he narrated. “And you know that marshy
place near the town? Well, the day
before it started I killed six snakes there ;
see? All lightin’ out for higher ground.
Marvellous, ain’t it, the way them things
know it’s cornin’. Cripes, y’ can’t fool
a snake,” A bit further along the
river road Bert stopped to dispatch a
small black that wriggled across the track,
and not 10 minutes later missed another
in a heap of sticks. His eyes narrowed
shrewdly. “Travellin’ away from the
water,” he remarked portentously. “You
can look out for a deluge round here ;
see? They know.” X looked out, but
the country grew more sunbaked than
ever, and two months passed without a
drop of cloud refreshment. Running into
Bert, I reminded him of his snake fore-
cast. “Er —yair, they know awright,” he
answered. “Must be a lot more ’n’ two
snakes along that river; see? An’, as
I said, they knew better ’n to move
away, with the drought cornin’ on. All
but them two little ’uns; see? Yair, it
goes t’ prove what I’m alwus sayin’, that
it don’t matter what sort o’ animals it
is, y’ bound t’ run into a fool or two
among ’em; see?”
* * * *
“Golden Mile”: One of the toughest
salvage jobs in the history of mining lies
ahead of the repair gangs of Australia’s
premier goldmine, the Great Boulder.
With its main shaft down 3200 ft.,
G.B. uses two steel-wire ropes, each
worth £7OO and weighing 10,0001 b.
Engaged in lifting up to four tons
in each hoist, these ropes require
that periodically the spliced-in thimbles
that link on the big skips should be re-
newed. To do this both skips are brought
to the surface, lowered on to chairs which
support them when the ropes are dis-
engaged. The renewal job completed by
the roper, the skips are raised from the
chairs and left hanging in the shaft ready
for a quick start next morning. This was
the programme on Sunday, April 3.
Everyone had quitted the job by some
15 minutes when, with a shrieking
whistle that was heard for a mile, the
skip on the loose drum plunged to the
bottom, taking with it the entire 2500 ft.
of rope; which, when it finally ran out
to the end, tore loose from its fastening
to the winding drum, the loose end flash-
ing up over the pulley-wheel at the top
of the 120 ft. poppet-legs and plunging
with the rest of the rope down the shaft.
The head of the poppets was pulled over
towards the engine, the two outer
poppet-legs being ripped from their
concrete embedment. What things
will be like down the shaft only old hands
can imagine. The heavy thick rope will
have gone at least halfway down in its
final tangled coil. It will be jammed into
the shaft like solid steel bars by the force
of its impact, which may also have
smashed many of the timbers that divide
the damaged shaft from its fellow-run-
way. Skids that guide the skip on its
travel will probably be torn out, while
at the bottom the huge skip will probably
have to be cut into segments before it
can be extricated. - How did it
happen? Most winders have a fast and
a loose drum, the fast keyed to the drum
shaft in direct action with the cylinders;
the loose drum kept in working position
by means of a clutch. Release of this
clutch sets the drum free to spin on the
shaft. In a similar accident I once wit-
nessed the clutch suddenly jumped out,
the cage instantly flashing to the bottom.
BACK HOME.
I loved the bushland in the burning summer,
I loved the hot and gleaming rocks of grey,
The granite boulders glistening and shining,
The baked and cracked old roads of glaring
clay.
I loved the old logs whitened in the noontime,
The tall dead trees scarred deep by smoke
and heat,
The tangled scrub blue-grey within the hazes
And all the ground like fire beneath the feet.
I loved the perfume of the gum-trees blowing,
The sweet, dry smell of brown and withering
grass,
The currents warm that drifted from the gullies.
The fragrant gusts that came by gorge ana
pass.
I loved the gum-leaves when they turned to
' silver,
The white, clean limbs that stood out in the
glare,
The brilliant red and orange ’midst the bushes,
The open spaces shimmering broad and bare.
I loved the misty distances that floated,
The colors rare that rose and then would
fade,
The changing blues of far and beckoning moun-
tains,
The patterns strange the trees made with their
shade. •
I loved the stalwart strength of rugged timber,
The blazing depth of high and perfect sky,
The scented flowers that graced the rough earth
broken,
The beauties of my homeland to the eye.
I loved the wide and stretching bush that called
me.
The magic and the might that breathed
o’er all,
The distant peaks of bare and treeless ranges,
And every bushland bird’s melodious call.
I loved it all and, aye, was ever thankful
For all it gave the wondrous summer long:
Its splendor and its wonder and its glory.
The mystery and the greatness of its song.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


erast
Even Father will want to help
The gleaming satin smooth finish of a
Wunderlich Stainless Steel Sink' Unit makes
the task of washing dishes so much more
attractive even Father will be eager to
assist.
Ask him to buy one for your kitchen . . •
they are made 4 ft., 5 ft. and 6 ft. long by
I ft. 6 ins. wide.
The units are backed with timber to simplify
installation—supplies are available for prompt
delivery.
Ask your local Hardware Merchant, 'phone
MX 2411, or write to Box 474, G.P.O. Sydney,
for illustrations and prices.
cferfi eft
INK, UNITS
IN STAINLESS ST-ECL
A PRODUCT Of OUTSTANDING QUALITY OF THE
METALWORKING DIVISION OF WUNDERLICH LIMITED
RIGHT FOR THE NIGHT
and Bright in the Morning
Wolfe’s Schnapps with lemon, at bedtime, is
a wonderfully comforting drink. After a
sound night’s sleep, you’ll wake in the morn-
ing feeling fresher and brighter.
Always have a bottle of
Wolfe’s Schnapps in the home
and take it regularly
as a night-cap • • •
for “good nights”
and <fi good mornings.”
WOLFE'S
t^Jhrcmabc
SCHNAPPS
WOLFES
AROMATIC
SCBSAPPS
=csf--
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Sharemarket Firmer
Just before Easter there was a
smart recovery in some indus-
trial shares on the Stock Ex-
change, notably in 8.H.P., which
went to 545., after sinking as low
as 50s. Highest price this year
was 595. 3d. C.S.R. also re-
covered strongly, and most
market leaders advanced; but
Bradford Cotton, ex Is. interim
div., was still obtainable at the
attractive price of 425. 9d., which
was still around the lowest figure
of the year. Yield at 425. 9d. is
£4 13s. per cent. On' the whole,
the market still left many oppor-
tunities for investors to buy into
first-class stocks at prices much
lower than those offering in the
middle of January.
B.H.P. was still ss. below
the highest January quote,
Tooth (one of the steadiest
during the setback) was still
down Is, 9d. at 785., A.C.I.
was 6s. down at 51s. 9d., Bank of
N. S. Wales 30s. at £39, Felt and
Textiles ord. Bs. at 48s. (the
market has been disappointed
with the new issue), Meggitt
3s. 9d. at 355, 3d., Yarra Falls
6s. at 61s. 6d., Adelaide Steam
4s. at 275. 3d., Dunlop Rubbgr
ss. at 38s. 3d. and North Broken
Hill 20s. at 725.
The shock that came from the
first sign of a setback in over-
seas metal prices appears to be
wearing off, and investors are
withstanding the lower level of
wool prices. Perhaps even lower
wool prices were expected ; the
drop of 10 p.c. or so means very
little in itself in view of the in-
creases that have taken place
even in the last few months. In
any case, the statistical positions
of wool and of some of the
metals that have reacted, notably
lead, are still sound, and no pre-
cipitous fall is likely.
Even in the United States there
is still an unsatisfied demand for
many basic products, services and
manufactures including new
automobiles —and though specu-
lation is to be discouraged,
economics of scarcity still exist,
a buyers’ market developing in
only a. few lines. The return to
some sort of balance between
supply and demand should not
be bad news for industry any-
way. When such a balance does
come, with a fair day’s work
from industry for fair pay, real
prosperity and real industrial
stability will be at last with us.
Prices Up or Down?
Dr. G, L. Wood, Professor of
Commerce at Melbourne Uni-
versity, describes predictions of
falling prices in Australia,
“according to the prejudices of
the prophets, as wishful think-
ing.” He adds:
In sober fact it seems more likely
that prices will rise in the immediate
future and that the level of costs
will have to be adjusted to a higher
plateau of prices. How far above
pre-war level the new level of prices
will rise will depend on overseas
prices for Australian imports and
exports, the character of the Federal
Government’s economic policy, and
the behavior of the Australian people.
The welfare of consumers will be
greatly affected by these three power-
ful forces.
Dr. Wood, in support of the
argument that prices and costs
have not yet reached their peak
in Australia, quotes money, price
and wage statistics at December,
1948, compared with 1939, for
three countries:
Country Volume of Retail Average
(1939= Money Prices Wages
100) (1949) (1949) (1949)
U.K. ..300 175 190
U.S.A. .. 300 160 200
Australia . 250 145 170
Dr. Wood interprets these figures
thus:
While the volume of all forms of
money in use in U.S.A. and U.K. is
three times, in Australia it is only
two-and-a-half times that of 1939.
While retail prices in U.K. are 60
per cent., and in U.S.A. 75 per cent.,
higher than pre-war, in Australia they
are only 45 per cent, higher. Average
wages in U.K. are 90 per cent, and in
U.S.A. 100 per cent, above pre-war,
while in Australia they are only 70
per cent, higher. In other words, the
inflationary movement had gone
further in U.K. and U.S.A. by the
beginning of 1949 than it had done
in Australia. In the absence of con-
trols, however, the Australian picture
may be merely that of a delayed
reaction.
He goes on to say:
The controversy in Australia is,
now, whether full employment can
be maintained without further infla-
tion. If it can, we are in a relatively
secure and stable position; if not,
we should not be over-confident.
Successful pressure for higher wages
to keep pace with rising prices and
higher costs of living would take us
further along the road taken in
U.S.A. and U.K.
The question of a “recession” or
of prosperity rests with income-
earners: — ■ (
The President’s Economic Com-
mittee has warned that the fall in
real consumer-income is a potential
danger to the whole economy in
U.S.A. That is the danger which
must be avoided in Australia. Unless
export prices fall calamitously, no
real depression seems likely in Aus-
tralia; and, given commonsense and
co-operation between all sections,
economic adjustments need not be
difficult nor drastic.
The safe course from now on is to
keep increased spending in line with
increases in the output of goods.
'Only income-earners can perform this
sort of voluntary regulation.
“Co-operation” is the key word.
Communists and socialists have
prevented co-operation up to
now.
Maoriland Housing
Maorilanders were- interested
when Dr, S. Barton Babbage,
Dean of .Sydney, gave their
State houses a big rap-up l against
Sydney mass - produced types
after his summer holiday across
the Tasman. “Aesthetically pleas-
ing and artistically individual”
was his summing-up of N.Z.
Government-owned family units,
which now number 30,000, and
have grown at record rate lately,
with 4600 built in the year ended
March. This easily beat the 1941
peak year of 3966.
Thousands of Maorilanders on
comfortable incomes are State
tenants and have the laugh over
others, who pay as high as £3 a
square foot, at present costs, to
build for themselves. Home-
owners cough up double the 30s.
average weekly rent charged for
State houses to have their own
roofs, and then shoulder their
share of the tax, hidden in de-
partmental files, which helps to
keep State rents so cheap.
When “Labor” decided to go
into the housing business and be-
come a landlord in a big way it
had the idea of helping small
earners by fixing rents at a shade
under £1 a week ; but when it
got going in 1937 the figure was
50 p.c. above its target. Since
then the State Advances Cor-
poration, which has been skim-
ming the cream from a-waiting
pool of tenants for 12 years, has
helped many who could well fend
for themselves and has done its
best to break down traditional
M.L. love of the freehold. Scores
of families at the low end of the
income-scale crowd in transit-
camps, shacks, ex-Yankee Army
tents or with in-laws, waiting for
the houses “Labor” was going to
build for them.
Observers from abroad, like
the Dean, puzzled how N.Z. sets
a standard in State houses
countries can’t match, have the
answer in the Government’s
bleeding of taxpayers to aid large
numbers of double-figure wage-
earners who would get the cold-
shoulder from other Govern-
ments.
Linoleum Holdings
Before making a new issue
the board of Linoleum Holdings
will ask shareholders to sanction
changes in the capital structure.
The present unusual gearing, of
£5OOO ordinary scrip with
£75,000 preferred - ordinary,
dates from the writing-out of
35,000 ords. in 1938 to clear the
books of accumulated deficits in-
curred, in the co.’s first 10 years.
Preferred shareholders will now
be asked to take ords., on a
share-for-share basis, in ex-
change for their 8 p.c. cumu-
lative scrip. Then a one-for-
three par issue will raise total
capital from £BO,OOO tQ £106,666,
all ordinary.
This is purely a holding co.,
and the new money will be
passed over to the' operating
concern, Michael Nairn and Co.
(Australia) Pty., which makes
linoleum at Auburn (N.S.W.).
Linoleum Holdings is only a
minority shareholder in Michael
Nairn (Aust.), having a 21 p.c.
interest. Control rests with the
big British organisation of
Michael Nairn, which has fac-
tories in Scotland, France,
Canada and U.S.A. and capital
exceeding £2,000,000 sterling.
A small interest (2.9 p.c.) also
belongs to the Sydney firm of
Meggitt, Ltd. —for whose lin-
seed-oil the local Nairn is pre-
sumably a customer. Meggitt,
again, is the biggest single share-
holder in Linoleum Holdings it-
self, owning £25,831 of that co.’s
present £BO,OOO capital.
Very little information seeps
through to Linoleum share-
holders regarding the activities
of Michael Nairn (Aust.). No
profit figures have been pub-
lished for 12 years, but last year
an 8 p.c. dividend was paid,
compared with 7 p.c. in 1947 and
4 p.c. in the three previous terms.
The latest was “an unusually
satisfactory result,” but now
sales are again “on the downward
trend, owing mainly to the ex-
ceptionally large purchases of
overseas linoleum.” Still, the
board expects to hold its share
of “whatever business is avail-
able,” and is extending its plant
to “take advantage of the new
types of business which are
offering.” Michael Nairn’s paid
capital is therefore being raised
from £375,000 to £500,000, and
hence Linoleum Holdings’ new
issue.
The 8 p.c. div. from Michael
Nairn last year was just enough
to pay Linoleum Holdings pre-
ferred-ord, holders 8.2 p.c.,
without leaving anything for the
ords. Latest price of 335. for
Linoleum preferreds is equal to
295. 9d. ex rights. Yield would
be 5.2 p.c. if an 8 p.c. dividend
is assumed on the co.’s enlarged
and unified capital.
Manufacturing Problems
After years of soft living N.Z.
manufacturers must toughen up.
They’ve been sailing along on
smooth, sheltered waters for
years, but today they glimpse
breakers ahead. Chairman J. C.
Whitney, of M.K, Manufac-
turers, Ltd., Auckland, who is
also Colonial Ammunition Co.’s
big chief, warns industrialists
and others to brace themselves
for shocks. If overseas prices
drop the blow to M.L., which
has had £3O million already
lopped off annual income from
exports at present price-levels,
through its new pound, will
start “unpleasant readjustments”
throughout* Maoriland, declares
Whitney. Now is the hour to
build up financial reserves, but
cos. that haven’t got much in
the locker might not find this so
easy. M.K., in the “highly
fashion-conscious and competi-
tive” softgoods and hat trade,
has felt the change coming for
more than a year, and, like
others, has had to extend the
range of output, with bigger de-
mands for materials, more risk
of loss and narrow profit-mar-
gins. “New-look” trends last
year forced this co. and rivals to
step on it to catch up with the
sudden swing in demand.
Westcott Hazell Engineering
and Steel, Ltd., by its new issue
of £45,000, will raise paid capi-
tal to £195,000 —compared with
£10,900 only years ago. It
will then be well ahead of the
parent Westcott Hazell and Co.,
from which this business was
chipped off in 1936 to concen-
trate on selling steels, precision
instruments and machine-tools.
The latest issue—offered to ord.
shareholders one-for-two and at
a ss. premium—will finance the
purchase as going concerns of
three cos. making and distribut-
ing surface cleaners and de-
tergents. Westcott Engineering
already has a subsidiary called
Turco (Aust.) Pty. engaged in
that business. Most of the rapid
growth of capital so far has gone
to provide working capital ; at
last balancing - date stocks
(£182,777) and debtors (£93,633)
accounted for 86 p.c. of gross
assets, and the £1 ords. had net
tangible cover of 225. 4d. each.
At 30s. ex rights yield is 5.3 p.c.
on an 8 p.c. dividend basis.


Missing Friends.
RAINEY, Joyce.-—WILL the relatives of
MRS. SARAH ANN RAINEY, nee Joyce,
formerly of North Fitzroy, communicate
with THE EQUITY TRUSTEES COM-
PANY, 472 Bourke Street, Melbourne?
JAMES ANDERSON, son of JANE
ANDERSON, last known at Kalgoorlie
Hotel, Smith Street, Collingwood, Mel-
bourne, in 1917, or anyone with any in-
formation about him, please communicate
with MESSRS. WEIGALL & CROWTHER,
Solicitors, 459 Chancery Lane, Melbourne.
% \\ave closet'
iritlt *
\4B
Gt^
OE^
SSS&Sfe
'ii IT.V'iagS
COMPLETE
\
3
WITH 2 BLADES
IN NEAT PLASTIC
V. CASE y
—the razor with the heavy
surgical steel blade that
gives double the usual
number of shaves. No
drag, no pull, just a sweet,
smooth shave.
Obtainable everywhere.
flOiD OCio WsMoofy
MACSON
IJI
LATHES
Ideal for Garage and Country Workshops
MACSONj
mmmm
“MACSON” Biin. CONE HEAD LATHES
may be ordered for early delivery
SPECIFICATIONS;—
• Centre by Bft. Gap Bed
• Quick Change Gearbox
• Rapid Action to Saddle
• Headstock with large hollow spindle
• Machine complete with two speed countershaft
• Standard single toolholder supplied
• The tray supplied as extra
Illustrated leaflets describing our full range of MACSON LATHES are available POST FREE.
Further Details on Request from
£
Ltd
Selling Agents for
ASSOCIATED MACHINE TOOLS AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
546-566 Collins Street, Melbourne—ll 6-130 Waymouth Street, Adelaide—26o Kent
Street, and 51 Bathurst Street, Sydney—s 32 Murray Street, Perth
LONDON AIRMAIL
Except for the starlings, which
in one drastic flash were scat-
tered from shelter, and for the
fire-brigade, which didn’t quite
know what Jo expect, the switch-
ing-on of the lights o’ London
was an occasion for rejoicing.
The many children present that
drenching evening were enthusi-
astic over what was to nearly all
of them a new and exhilarating
experience. Piccadilly Circus
came nearer to its pre-war radi-
ance than did Trafalgar Square,
which could sport but one sky-
sign. The windows of the ship-
ping and airlines offices in the
neighborhood of Cockspur -
street, with their brightly-lit
models of liners and ports, soon
became crowded sideshows,
especially for the young.
The temporary nature of the
illuminations can hardly be
escaped. They began on the eve
of Summer Time and will cease
in October. Only those which,
could respond to first-aid treat-
ment have survived the long
period of disuse, and it is un-
likely that there will be elabor-
ate new installations. Play
titles and stars’ names outside
the theatres show only reflected
glory: when they are picked out
in electric lights we shall know
that the. West End’s colorful
dazzle has come to stay.
With the holiday mouths ap-
proaching it is not easy to de-
termine whether the nationalised
British Railways seek to serve
the public or to recoup their
considerable losses. While offer-
ing cheap passenger excursion-
tickets, they are at the same time
grumbling, rather peevishly,
about the passenger- and trading-
public not making wider use of
their services. The implication,
is that those who take advantage
of road transport are letting the
railways down, and, therefore,
that the railways can’t be ex-
pected to pay their way.
When the road-coach com-
panies opened their offices for
summer bookings last February
There were all-night queues;
tickets for Saturday travel
throughout the high season were
sold out within a few hours,
six months before they were re-
quired. It is not that most people
prefer to travel by road, but that
they would rather have the
difference between rail and road
fares to spend ; on long-distance
trips this amounts to nearly one-
half the rail fare. Similarly, the
private trader seeks the best
value for the conveyance of his
goods.
The hidden danger is further
nationalisation. It is only ten be
expected that the embarrassment
of the railways could be relieved
by the very simple device of
“levelling-up” the road-transport
fares and tariffs.
More Socialisation?
Those wavering Britons who
still, have doubts about the
efficacy of the alternative to
Socialism would do well to
glance at the 220-odd resolutions
in the preliminary agenda for the
48th annual conference of the
Labor party (Blackpool, June
6-10). A cursory scrutiny should
make up their minds for them.
The number of resolutions is
about 80 less than last year be-
cause the executive committee
of the Labor party, presumably
to save possible embarrassment,
appealed to its affiliated or-
ganisations not to send in reso-
lutions devoted to the pro-
gramme for the general election
of next year; nor is the defer-
ment of publication of this pro-
gramme likely to be accidental.
The agenda shows that the
Labor rank-and-file are still con-
cerned with more and more
socialisation as an end in itself;
that the earth should be theirs
and everything that’s in it; and
that hard facts and pressing eco-
nomic realities have no place in
their dream world. The tacit
assumption that underlies the
majority of the resolutions is the
old double-edged one: that by
drawing upon the bottomless
chest in the Treasury (or by
“soaking the rich”) there shall
be fair shares for all (i.e., for
party members and their sympa-
thisers).
Housing attracts the largest
number (33) of resolutions, with
particular reference to building
costs and high council-house
rents. As building costs have
risen because of shorter hours
and higher pay, and as council
houses and flats are subsidised,
the remedy called for would
seem to be more subsidy and,
therefore, still higher taxation.
Nationalisation is still the
parrot-cry, although one resolu-
tion suggests consolidation of
those industries already com-
mitted before any further ven-
tures are made. Others call for
immediate nationalisation of the
land, the banks, water-supplies,
fire and life insurance and a
score of industries ; for each in-
dustry to be controlled by
elected representatives of the
workers; for a closer control of
prices, profits and dividends;
for the abolition of the House of
Lords and of hereditary titles ;
and even for polling-day at
general elections to be a national
holiday. A Scottish resolution
urges the Labor party to “accept
the principle of equal alloca-
tion (with due respect to age) of
purchasing-power among those
engaged in useful employment*
but offers no prize for a correct
interpretation.
One industry, flourmilling,
down for nationalisation, seems
to have slipped on the list by
mistake, for it is believed that
the Co - operative Wholesale
Society have intervened and per-
suaded the Government to leave
it alone. Their reason, which
must surely be the best-ever
argument against State-con-
trol, is that they themselves
have substantial interests in the
industry,
Bridie Unbridled
The “House Full” boards are
out nightly at Wyndham’s
Theatre, and the frequent bursts
of laughter are hearty enough to
be heard over the road in Lei-
cester-square. James Bridie’s
new comedy, “Daphne Laure-
ola,” has the outward form of
a theatrical sensation: it is
Laurence Olivier’s; first essay in
management since his return to
London ; it was specially written
for a dynamic star who has for
support two of England’s finest
character-actors; and a gifted
newcomer (the result of Sir
Larry’s talent - spotting in
N.S.W.) makes his first appear-
ance on the English stage.
Yet the play does not satisfy.
One tends to leave the theatre,
after blinking, shuddering and
laughing, with a sense of having
been cheated out of full enter-
tainment. The title, which might
equally well have been “Much
Ado About Nothing” or “Hotch-
potch,” has a double allusion. A
laurel-tree appears in the second
act as a symbol—of exactly
what is not clear; and the cur-
tain falls upon an explanation
that the young Polish introvert,
who made such hysterical game
with his phobias, no longer sees
himself as Dante to the Beatrice
of Lady Pitts (50, neurotic,
passee and spasmodically Tipsy)
but as Apollo to her Daphne.
Apollo, we are told, loved
Daphne so much that he turned
her into a laurel-bush. But this
Lady Pitts, recently widowed
and endowed, has married her
chauffeur, and the phony intel-
lectual must have seen them, as
we did, vanishing into the Soho
night.
This contrivance, which is but
one of many, is as apt as a patch
of red plush upon a cricketer’s
trousers. It is rather as if the
author had taken a lucky-dip
into the bag containing all the
artifices that plays are made of
and had then shaken up his
material, kaleidoscope fashion.
Some succeed brilliantly; others
don’t.
Peter Finch, as the moon-
struck Pole, makes a remarkable
debut. He gives authenticity in
accent and nervous sensitivity to
a part that could scarcely be a
more exacting test-piece.
“Heho”: It’s a happy augury
for the latest Australian to make
good on the London stage that
the lights went on within a few
days of the appearance of his
name, in good-sized letters, out-
side Wyndham’s Theatre, Char-
ing Cross-road, Not many
actors have the good fortune of
32-year-old Peter Finch in being
translated direct from a fit-up
stage in Sydney to a West End
success. Backstage, Peter told a
Bulletin man that he remem-
bered only vaguely the Kensing-
ton (London) which he left over
20 years ago, but that he found
present-day London not nearly
as hard - pressed as he’d
imagined ; but he thinks Aus-
tralians are very fortunate. Since
playing Humphrey, the pacifist,
in “Eureka Stockade,” Peter has
made a film, “Train of Events,”
in England with Jack Warner,
Baronova and Valerie Hobson
as co-actors. He’s also proud to
have received a long letter from
James Bridie congratulating him
upon his performance in
“Daphne Laureola” at Wynd-
ham’s.
From Herbert Holman


eawr
—the first ignition
battery was an
EXIDE.
ewr
—the first lighting
battery was an
EXIDE.
f
lighting and ignition
battery was an EXIDE.
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD., 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
MAKE
ce
First choice for your
XA8.28
PERSONAL ITEMS
Anybody seeking information about
Jim Grahame in Who’s Who must look
it up under “Gordon.” The 75-year-old
friend and mate of Henry Lawson took
the penname because there were already
too many poetical Gordons. Jackeroo,
drover, opal-miner, storekeeper, station-
hand, overseer and farm-inspector, he has
been pouring out verse and stories for 50
years. The oldest living camp-mate of
Lawson, with whom he tramped back o’
Bourke in the ’nineties, he is visiting his
home-town, Creswick, which has been the
birthplace of so many prophets, includ-
ing the Lindsay family, that it could have
one celebration a week for its returning
sons and last the year out.
Monty Holcroft, one-time editor of In-
vercargill “Times,” who was in Paris re-
cently as M.L. rep. on the U.N.E.S.C.O.
committee inquiring into international
tensions, has shifted to the editorial chair
of the New Zealand “Listener.” He won
the Hubert Church Memorial Prize twice
for the best prose written in M.L. for the
year.
Hopped across the Tasman in a DC-6,
being one of the 50 Returned Services
Association members M.L. has sent to
march on Anzac Day, Ken Aekins poked
into Sydney’s law courts and vet. estab-
lishments before heading for Melbourne,
where he’ll step out on The Day. In-
terest in courts stems from being a
barrister in Auckland and a Judge’s ad-
vocate for nine years ; and in animal hos-
pitals from his vice-presidency of N.Z’s.
Federation of the S.P.C.A. An Old
Kiwi, this is his first time in Australia,
though he met plenty of the natives in
France, where he worked with a unit of
Australian tunnellers at Polygon Wood,
and where a packet of mustard-gas
caught underground landed him in
Boulogne hospital. Believing in seeing
for himself, when the M.L. anti-vivisec-
tionists were clamorous on ill-treatment
of lab. specimens, Aekins witnessed on
behalf of his society operations on dogs
and rats in Auckland. He came away
asking only that he be as well-treated in
the human cutting-room. A friendly cove
who converses with energy enough to
make uranium envious.
D. V. Darwin, who will have the big
job of chairing the Victorian Country
Roads Board in succession to W. R. Dale,
is 52 and an Old Digger. He won the
M.M. in World War I and has been a
roadmaker ever since‘then. Chief engineer
for five years, he was appointed to the
board in 1945. He is a lecturer and
examiner in civil engineering at the Uni-
versity of Melbourne.
Some April literary dates: —
Poet, ethnologist and diplomat Paul Hasluck
{Our Southern Half Castes and Black Austra-
lians) was ushered into the world on the Ist, in
1905. On the 2nd, in 1908, poet Ronald
McCuaig ( Vaudeville and The Wanton Goldfish)
was born. Thirty-nine years ago Catherine
Helen Spence passed into the silence on the
3rd. On the 4th, in 1945, died Tasmanian-
born novelist Edith Joan Lyttleton (“G. B.
Lancaster”). Novelist and radio playwright
E. V. Timms first exercised his lungs on the
7th, in 1895. Born in 1907, on the 10th,
novelist and short-story writer Gavin S. Casey.
Eighty-three years old bn the 11th, poet Ber-
nard O’Dowd. On the 13th, in 1869, C. A.
Jeffries, author of “By Rail and Semaphore”
and “Shepherd Kings of Canterbury” series of
short stories, was born, and on the 20th died
at the age of 62. Also on the 13th, Ambrose
Pratt, journalist, novelist and biographer of
David Syme, died five years ago. Critic A. G.
Stephens (editor The Bulletin’s “Red Page,”
1896-1906, and founder of “The Bookfellow”)
went west on the 15th in 1933. In 1830, on
the 17th, explorer and ethnologist Alfred W.
Howitt (The Native Tribes of South-East Aus-
tralia) was born. The 18th is the birthday of
poet Henry Kendall (1839) and —in 1895 —W. E.
Harney, author of North of 22 and Taboo.
Left this world on the 19th, in 1925, Dr.
Charles McLaurin, author of Post Mortem
and Mere Mortals. Born ninety years ago, on
the 21st, James Edmond, editor of The
Bulletin, 1902-15, and author of A Journalist
and Two Bears and A Policy for the Common-
wealth. Born on the 22nd —in 1860—Charles
Haddon Chambers, first Australian dramatist
to achieve distinction overseas. Julian Thomas,
writer of the sensational “Vagabond” papers
in the Melbourne “Argus,” was born on the
23rd, in 1840. Marcus Clarke, whose For the
Term of His Natural Life is still a best-seller,
was born on the 24th, in 1846. Sixty-one years
old on the 26th, Federal politician T. \y. White,
whose Guests of the Unspeakable ranks high
among Australian war books. In 1868, on the
28th, poet James Lionel Michael (Songs Without
Music and John Cumberland), whose best ser-
vice to Australian literature was his encourage-
ment of Henry Kendall, was found drowned in
the Clarence River (N.S.W.).
Commander Alan McNicoll, new
Director of Plans and Ops in the recent
Navy shuffle, wears the George Medal,
won under those conditions which are the
most difficult —away from the spur and
clash of action. Six months after the Itie
sub. Galileo Galilei was captured in 1940,
it was decided to remove firing pistols
from eight torpedoes loaded in her tubes.
TORPEDOMAN.
By this time their warheads, containing
about 5001 b. of h.e. apiece, were badly
corroded. It was true to assume the ex-
plosive inside would be extremely touchy.
McNicoll was given the job, and while
on it heard that the pistols might be
magnetic. The torpedoman accepted the
risk—he was like a man who starts along
a jungle path which may well be
ambushed —and got all pistols out. Brig.-
General McNicoll, one-time New Guinea
Administrator, was his father.
An admiral from retirement;
To Fleet-Admiral Chester Nimitz place-names
in the Pacific and Japan are as well known as
Paris to a Kansas City tourist; now he’s off
to Kashmir, appointed by Trygve Lie to work
on the problem of Kashmir’s status in the
Indian partition. Kashmir is mostly Moslem,
but its Hindu maharajah joined it to India;
Pakistan demanded its retention in the Moslem
State. The resultant fighting ended last January,
when both States agreed to U.N.O.’s appoint-
ing an administrator to hold a plebiscite of
the Kashmiris. The Admiral’s job will be
difficult; the free election will be Kashmir’s
first, electoral rolls must be drawn up and the
four million natives taught how to vote. Blit
the task lies well within the 64-year-old seaman’s
ability. Besides being a brilliant strategist—
he commanded the largest fleet in history in a
watery theatre of 65 million square miles —
he owns to a calculating commonsense and a
reasoned good opinion of his fellow-men,
which he exploits fully in getting the best out
of them. He is notable less for his own spec-
tacular achievements than for his knack of
stimulating achievement on the part of others;
after administering the machinery of his vast
Pacific fleet, making a plebiscite work should
be right up his yardarm.
This year’s Maoriland Cowan Prize
for journalistic work —“enterprise in news
gathering and speed in transmitting it
together with pictures to his office” —
went to J. P. Kennedy, of Christchurch
“Star-Sun,” who covered the Mount Cook
tragedy, in which two trampers lost their
lives and six were injured.
Recently collected the highly-prized
Johnston Memorial Air Navigation
Trophy, Captain W. H. Crowther,
Qantas ops-manager in Sydney. He has
navigated most world routes at some time
or other. With his licence dated 1930, he
instructed in the Queensland Aero Club
for two years, toured aircraft factories in
America and England and joined Qantas
in 1934, flying D.H.-86’s on the Brisbane-
Singapore run. The new technique
evolved in flying-boat ops. found him
studying it in England, after which he
practised between London and Durban.
When World War II broke he ferried the
first R.A.A.F. Catalinas across the
Pacific, then shifted to the Karachi,
Singapore, Java and New Guinea routes
as captain i.c'. of services. He flew the
last flying-boat into Singapore before the
Japs took over, and in 1943 organised the
relinking of Australia and England with
Catalinas between Perth and Ceylon,
some of which he flew. It was this ser-
vice, flown in complete radio silence, that
brought him and two other Sydney air-
men the valued trophies. Crowther’s
latest navigational job was to survey in a
Qantas Lancastrian a route across the
Indian Ocean to Africa.
K. H. Rogers, an honors graduate of
Perth Uni., has won a diplomatic staff
cadetship in Canberra. He was a mem-
ber of the select band of R.A.N. beach
commandos in the Pacific war (whose
job was to clear landing beaches of
subsurface mines and similar Welcomes)
and is a son of the Deputy Master of
Westralia’s Mint.
“Recco”: What is possibly British
aviation’s biggest test-pilot appointment
goes to Arthur Pegg, 0.8. E., who will
fly the * 135-ton, lOOrpassenger Bristol
Brabazon on its birth-flight. He has
enough experience behind him; now 42,
he joined the R.A.F. at 15| and first
flew in a Vickers-Vimy bomber, the type
in which Sir Ross Smith made his Eng-
land-Australia flight. In 1925 he became
an n.c.o. pilot and three years later was
instructing instructors. Now he has
logged 4500 hours in 150 different types
of aircraft. The Brabazon is too big to
be operated manually, and for some
months Pegg has been flying a Lancaster
fitted with power-controls designed for
the giant. Since 1947 he has been Bristol’s
chief test-pilot.
John Rogers, research at Otago
School of Mines (M.L.), has collected a
Nuffield post-graduate scholarship. He
goes to America this year, for six months,
and hopes to visit the world-recognised
Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
which owes a good deal of its present
kudos to another Maorilandef, Dr.
Richard Maclaurin, of whom a biography
was printed in America after his death
in 1921. Rogers is a graduate of Canter-
bury Uni., and worked for five years in
Australia with the C.S.I.R. before return-
ing to New Zealand two years ago.
The lineaments limned here by
Dubois belong to Norman Ross Mearns,
8.A., the latest of the long line of dis-
tinguished headmasters who have left the
impress of their minds and personalities
on the many thousands of pupils who
have passed through Sydney’s historic
Fort-street Boys’ High School since,
just a century ago, it was founded
on Gallows Hill, *where now stands the
southern approach to the Harbor Bridge.
Tomorrow (Thursday) a back-to-school
afternoon begins the first of a series of
functions to celebrate the centenary, in
which the Fort-street Girls’ High will join
•—both schools started in the same con-
verted military hospital built by Lachlan
Macquarie, in which the girls’ school
is still housed. Mearns, who has been
guiding the destinies of the school for
five years, taught at Portland, Lithgow
TEACHER.
and Broken Hill as well as at Fort-street
before becoming science master at New-
castle High. He was inspector for some
time before taking the headmastership at
Fort-street —he is ranked No. 1 of the
State’s “heads.” A forthright, short,
stockily-built Old Digger—he saw service
with the Second Division from 1915 till
the end, was mentioned in dispatches
twice and afterwards became Assistant-
Director of Education for the A.I.F. in
the U.K. —he has two guiding
principles: to inculcate into his charges
a sense of responsibility when they go
out into the world'and to build character.
His invariable preamble to an address to
the assembled school is “Well, gentle-
men”—and as gentlemen they are ex-
pected to conduct themselves.
It has taken years of hard work for
Stanley Clarkson, tall, thin and sepulchral,
to rise from the composing-rooms of
Sydney newspapers to stardom in opera
at Sadler’s Wells, London, acclaimed by
critics for his performance as basso in
Verdi’s “Simone Boccanegra.” For some
20 years he sang oratorio in Australia ;
he has sung in every capital city, and he is
one of the few local singers whose name
as principal in an oratorio was as good
a draw to Australian audiences as the
name of an overseas celebrity or of an
Australian who had become famous over-
seas. To uproot himself from his home
at Brighton-le-Sands in his middle forties
to try his luck in London with his wife
and three daughters must have taken, a
lot of courage, well rewarded by this
success after 19 months of small parts.
Another victory for a Fort-street boy.
In harness still at 92, John Hewlett
Ross, the Melbourne speechcraft expert.
Still running as e'ditor and proprietor
“The Australian Financial Gazette,” he
has had an international reputation as
an author, which his Laureate of the
Centaurs, unchallenged as one of the best
biographies of Adam Lindsay Gordon,
helped to make. He was a lecturer in
voice-production and elocution at Mel-
bourne Uni., and his age was no bar to
an engagement to broadcast over the
A.B.C. last month ; he has broadcast con-
sistently from 3LO and 3AR since the
inception of broadcasting in Australia.
The G.O.M. is the sole survivor of the
poets featured in Douglas Sladen’s Cen-
tury of Australian Song.
Roared down the voice-pipe for the last
time. Captain H. S. Cox, who collapsed
and died aboard his ship, Tamaroa, in
Auckland. In November, 1940, when
German and Italian raiders were keeping
British cruisers constantly at sea in the
Indian Ocean, Captain Cox was driving
the Maimoa; he ran into the disguised
Italian raider Pinguin about 800 miles
off the Westralian coast. She launched an
aircraft wearing British colors; it
swept in low over Maimoa and tore out
her aerials with a hooked drag-wire.
Then the raider let go with her 4in.
Maimoa cleared for her life at 11 knots
—she had a Lewis-gun to answer the
other’s broadsides —but after three hours’
shelling Cox ordered abandon-ship. He.
and his crew ended in an Italian p.-0.-w.
camp. Cruiser Canberra, answering a
distress call from the Port Brisbane, sunk
a short time before* lound one lifeboat’s
crew of that ship, and, scouring for the
raider, an empty lifeboat from Maimoa.
Captain Cox had had Tamaroa for a year,
and was 58 at the end.
Into the Silence:
At Sandy Bay, Hobart, C. E. Radcliff, one
of Lassie’s leading horticulturists. He left
a legacy of over 250 varieties of pink daffodils,
some of which have won international prizes.
His incomparable Moina gained an award of
merit from the Royal Horticultural Society of
Great Britain, which also awarded him the
Peter Barr Memorial Cup in 1946.
At Dunedin (M.L.), Annie Cameron, widow of
the Captain Angus Cameron who was a founder
of the Union Co. and designed and supervised
the building of the famous barque Otago,
which was eventually commanded by Conrad;
its name frequently appears in his yarns. Mr.
Churchill recently presented the craft’s steering-
wheel to Trinity College, London, in memory
of Conrad.
In Brisbane, at 77, Ernest Manchester, the
engineer who put the water in Brisbane’s taps
and sewerage-system. With the Victorian Rivers
Commission before going north, he became
chairman of Brisbane’s water-supply and
sewerage board in 1910, and helped to solve
Maryborough’s water problem.
At Christchurch (M.L.), at 67, Patrick Owen .
Reilly, who was one of the few survivors 9f Scott s
Antarctic expeditions. Settling in Christchurch
44 years ago as a watersider, Reilly went down
to the Ice in the relief-ship Morning, and later
in the Terra Nova.
At Beaufort (Vic.), at 79, John Robertson
Wotherspoon, one of his State’s best-known
country businessmen. For many years chair-
man of disectors of the Eureka Tile Company
(Ballarat) and one of many of the deep alluvial
goldmining companies that operated around
Beaufort before that field fizzled out, he was,
in his heyday, a fine baritone, winner at the
South-street (Ballarat) competitions.


Women's letters
From Sydney
Autumn from a blue sky filmed over
every now and then with cloud sighed
reflectively over Randwick; last Saturday.
There were suits, sleek and trimly-cut on
every second woman, and when the Aus-
tralian girl gets into a well-tailored suit
there is a spirited grace about her. To
be brief, as an outing of well-dressed
women, pre-war Longchamps had nothing
on Randwick’s Easter hatching.
The Governor, Lieut.-General North-
cott, was the guest of the A.J.C. at lunch.
Elizabeth Northcott, who wore a tweed
suit gold in tone and a small cloche hat
in the same shade, entertained a large
party. In the Government House group
were Major Donald Coburn and Mrs.
Coburn, Captain J. Martin and Mrs.
Martin, and Sheila Collett.
A very opulent lizard had been trans-
formed into the silvery bag carried by
Mrs. Franc Falkiner, of the Upper Mur-
ray. With her grey suit she wore a
little folded hat of pale-daffodil and grey.
Double-breasted coats were a feature of
the suits. One of the smartest of these
was worn by Mrs. Graham Body. The
skirt, cut on straight, slim lines, was slit
a few inches from the hem on each side.
These slits were trimmed with a repeat
of the gilt buttons that were on the coat.
Her hat was of toning material, small and
fitting and folded back from the face.
Melbourne visitor, Mrs. Ronald Nott,
wore with her grey suit a small grey
cloche, charmful with its cascades of
soft grey feathers. With Mrs. Blake
Pelly, whose suit was of hibiscus-red,
was sister-in-law Mrs. John Laidley Dow-
ling. Mrs. Norman Hill was all in black
from the pom-pon that trimmed her velvet
beret. /
A Mercury-like dash was in the green-
winged hat worn by Mrs. Clement Chap-
man. Another contrast to her grey suit
was the tartan umbrella with its long
Malacca handle. Deep and yet bright
blue was Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere’s suit;
it featured a full basque and a back-
pleated skirt. Her hat of white felt had
a tailored line. Lieut.-General Berry-
man’s wife wore grey, with a deep-green
felt hat. With her was Mrs. Stuart Mc-
Kay, of Melbourne. Ann Berryman and
Sue Heron were among the winners of
the afternoon. Mrs. J. W. Shand’s suit,
was in brown-and-grey worsted. On
pretty Mrs. John Bovill’s white-brimmed
hat perched a mushroom-pink bird. Mrs.
Joe Coen wore a navy suit. With her
was daughter Marie, in grey tailorings.
Mrs. John Bruxner’s tweed suit was in
shades of pastel-blue and cocoa-brown.
Mrs. Ted Scorfield’s choice was brown in
frock and hat. Mrs. Bill Adams’s grey
suit was worn with a grey velvet cloche
studded with silver nail-heads. Also seen
were Mrs. George Henderson, of Urisino,
Bourke, Mrs. Strath Playfair and Mrs.
Robert Paterson.
With about 45,000 other people and
weighed down with 45.-worth of cata-
logue, this* Letter did the Show last week.
Not all the judges were listed in the book
of words, either. They positively swarmed
around the different exhibits. In the
Handcraft Section there were 689 exhibits
of exquisitely fine stitchery. The rewards
for this work seemed very small, many of
the first prizes being £1 10s. For a white
linen hand-embroidered frock it was a
mere £3. and the same amount was
awarded to a three-piece hand-
embroidered set.
The women did not win all the prizes
in this section. Mr. J. Meyenn, of Lid-
combe, got first prize for his woven scarf.
Two exhibitors from the War Veterans’
Home at Narrabeen were first- and
second-prize winners. Mr. G. Turner
won first and second prize for ladies’
leather handbags. A floor-rug with
a design woven in rich reds and
blues on a beige ground was the work of
Mr. J. W. Eastman, another veteran from
the home, who chose his colors by touch.
This was awarded second prize. Mrs. W.
Inglis got first.
The most handsome denizens in the
Horticultural Pavilion were the dahlias
and gladioli. Probably better, blooms
have never been exhibited. The thickly-
flowered stems of dark-red and yellow’
gladioli looked perfect Easter Hallelujahs.
One decorated basket of gladioli and
roses was gold as a sunset. The poultry
pavilion this Letter left to itself. It
sounded as noisy and inconclusive as a
Parliamentary debate. In a day which
was a razzle-dazzle of cows, ice refrigera-
tion, beds luxurious enough for film stars,
polocrosse, the dogs in the judging-ring
were clearly etched on the memory;
especially the Irish Setters, their coats
brilliant from a final polish of the
chamois held in fond owners’ hands.
Nature was at its Easter best when the
Governor, Lieut.-General Northcott, de-
dared the Show open last Wednesday
afternoon. All the stands were packed.
The Council Stand wore its new decora-
tions of blue, gold and white, which had
been acquired for the Royal visit. The
Governor and daughter Elizabeth were
guests of the president of the R.A.S.,
Colin Sinclair, and Mrs. Sinclair for after-
noon tea. This official party included
the Premier, James McGirr, and Mrs.
McGirr, Lord Mayor O’Dea and Mrs.
O’Dea and Lieut.-General Berryman and
Mrs. Berryman.
To meet Mrs. Nancy Wake is to live
again the thrill of the Eric Ambler novels
we devoured during the war. The pages
were stiff with excitements of espionage
and counter-espionage and heroes and
heroines of the secret service and the
underground movement. Not one of his
characters lived as dangerously through-
out the war years as the lady of this
Norton Trevaire picture. Her intrepid
courage in smuggling soldiers out of
France after that country’s collapse, her
work in being a constant contact for
British Secret Service agents, her leader-
ship of a band of Maquis, her endurance,
cleverness and amazing bravery in lead-
ing airmen, time and again, across the
Pyrenees are among the exploits (too many
of them for even a whole novel) which
earned for her the George Medal, Croix
de Guerre with Palms, Croix de Guerre
with Star, Medaille da la Resistance,
Medal of Freedom with Bronze Palm.
These carry citations of which even
Monty might be proud,
Nancy Wake, a Neutral Bay girl be-
fore she became Mrs. Henri Fiocca and
made her home in Marseilles, played her
part with valor. Her husband, who was
also deeply engaged in the Resistance
Movement, paid the penalty for his
bravery at the hands of the enemy. Now
at home, in her own country, she is facing
her responsibilities again. She is making
a bid for public life, and will contest, as
a Liberal candidate, the Barton seat for
the Federal Parliament. She is a sort of
David facing Goliath. The present mem-
ber is Dr. H. V. Evatt, Minister for Ex-
ternal Affairs.
You needn’t take a poll on it. The
happiest visitors to the R.A.S. were the
company of crippled children who were
enabled to visit the exhibits and enjoy a
lot of the fun of the fair from wheel-chairs.
The outing was arranged by the Crippled
Children’s Association; and, by the way,
there are no prettier baskets in Aus-
tralia than those made by these little
invalids under the direction of Margaret
Wiseman, who is in charge of their educa-
tion.
Graceful, fair-haired Beverly Green-
wood has just announced her engagement
to Bill Prior —Beverley is the only
daughter of the E. A. Greenwoods, of
Mosman. Bill, who is becoming well-
known as a caricaturist, is of the same
suburb. He is the eldest son* of The
Bulletin’s managing-director, H. K.
Prior, and the late Mrs. Prior.
The Governor, Lieut.-General North-
cott, and daughter Elizabeth, went to
the Red Cross Ball at the Trocadero last
week; so did 1000 others. In front of
the Governor’s table was a cross, its
centre of red roses edged about with
Easter daisies. Table decorations were
a feature of the ball; a prize had been
given by the wife of Lieut.-General
Berryman. This was presented to Phillipa
Moore and Shirley Grey for their novelty
design of two newly-hatched chicks com-
ing out of their Easter Eggs. President
of the ball was Lady Morshead, who
wore cool-looking water-green chiffons;
Mrs. Berryman’s grey chiffons were finely
knife-pleated. Red Cross publicity girl,
Dorothy Field, had gold coin spots
scattered over her bouffant white taffeta.
Sheila Collett, who came with the Gov-
ernment House party, was attractive in
lobelia-blue. Ann Berryman, who wore
shimmering mauve and blue taffetas,
was hostess to a large party. Elizabeth
Northcott’s frock was charm in ivory lace
over blue taffeta. Secretaries of the suc-
cess were Mrs. Ken Pointing and Mrs.
Paul Nelson.
The Metropolitan Theatre Group opens
at its new home in the hall of St.
Laurence on Friday, “Romeo and Juliet”
the play, Tyrone Guthrie will make the
opening speech. The company is proud
of the new velvet stage curtains, the
electric lighting and the stage. Be sure
to pay your compliments.
This Letter found Victorian artist Rex
Battarbee in Anthony Hordern’s Fine
Art Gallery surrounded by beautiful
examples of his own paintings. These
mostly depict the silent, reflective beauty
of Central Australia. Here are vivid sky
and soil and stretching ranges., The
Sydney buyer is responsive to these
beauties, as shown by the number of
“sold” seals on the frames.
From Melbourne
The Lady Mayoress, Mrs. J. S. Disney,
was hostess at an informal late-afternoon
party at which the Lord Mayor was guest
of honor. With other members of the
small delegation, the Lord Mayor is fly-
ing to Rome to urge the Olympic Games
committee to select Melbourne as the site
of the 1956 Games. White, tawny and
pastel-toned dahlias and chrysanthemums
decorated the reception-room. A black
French crepe jacket-suit was worn by
Mrs. J. S. Disney, with a small black
hat which flew soft white ospreys. The
Beaurepaire lady, whose husband is also
a member of the delegation, wore a black
hat with her tailored coat, which had
black Persian-lamb lapels. Mrs. M. R.
Cuthbertson achieved contrast for her
ensemble with the cyclamen satin ribbon
which trimmed her black hat. Mrs. C
P. Thomson wore a grey tailored suit and
small grey hat. Principal lady of the
“Oklahoma!” company, Carolyn Adair,
wore a black crepe frock which had a
draped back, a hip-length fur jacket and
small black halo hat.
Petite Edmee Nonad, who charmed
audiences in our capital cities a
few years ago with her dancing,
was married in the. Gardiner Presby-
terian Church to Alan Cameron, of Mona
Vale, Tasmania. Edmee, who is the
daughter of Mevrouw R. C. Monod De
Froideville, of Holland, wore a frock of
sea-green moire taffeta, the skirt cut on
full, flaring lines, the bodice tight-fitting.
Her small p,astel-pink felt bonnet was
covered with matching' tulle and she
carried a trail of pink roses. The recep-
tion was at Menzies’. Alan’s mother,
Mrs. Eustace Cameron, came from Tas-
mania for the wedding. Her navy-and-
white floral gown was worn with a navy
hat trimmed with matching ribbon. Mrs.
Clive Fisken’s black-and-caramel floral
frock was worn with a small black hat.
Mrs. John Cameron’s amethyst moire
taffeta gown had ruchihgs on the bouffant
skirt. Mrs/ Monod De Froideville wore
a black jacket-suit and a black hat
trimmed with ospreys. Jess Gerrard’s
frock was tan-and-white polka-dotted.
Mrs. J. de Vries wore a grey Indian-lamb
coat over her black frock. Mrs. V.
Street’s muted floral frock was worn with
a brown coat.
Members of the cast of “Oklahoma!”
were guests at a party given by James
and Janet Bowen Pain in the Matthew
Lang cellars. Mrs. Bowen Pain’s frock
of soft dove-grey crepe had a tight-
fitting bodice and skirt cut on bouffant
lines. Wife of -the American Consul-
General, Mrs. Samuel Fletcher, topped
her black moss-crepe suit with a swathed
cloche hat of black satin. Carolyn Adair
wore a gay tartan frock and dark-green
cloche hat finished with a scarlet chiffon
scarf. Mrs. Marshall Greig wore a small
navy satin hat with her navy frock.
Gold sequins trimmed the black frock
worn by Mrs. W. Killough, and. these
were repeated in her filmy black snood.
Mrs. lan Miller had black ostrich-
feathers clustered each side of her small
black hat, which was worn with a black
Persian-lamb coat. A beige-fox collar
highlighted the black-tailored coat which
Mrs. Seddon Thompson wore with a
small coq-feather-trimmed black hat.
Mrs. George Armstrong’s deep-violet
wool suit was trimmed with grey Persian-
lamb. Mrs. M. Sallmann’s large black
velvet hat, which carried black ospreys,
was worn with a black frock.
There was a good house at the King’s
Theatre for the premiere of “Rusty
Bugles.” In the obviously appreciative
audience were Mrs. Garnet Carroll, her
sea-green crepes glittering with mauve and
cyclamen sequins ; Mrs. Ivor Moreton in
multi-colored spotted taffeta gown and
hip-length mink coat; Mrs. Frank
O'Collins, black lace roses scattered over
her white satin gown ; Mrs. Olive Thring,
in royal-blue velvet gown and full-length
coat; ballerina Sally Gilmour (Mrs.
Alan Wynn) in a scarlet gold-embroidered
mandarin coat; Mrs. Harold Nathan, her
gown silver lame, her fox stole platina;
Mrs. W. Beale, whose small black theatre-
hat was of black tulle roses; Mrs. W.
McDermott, whose olive-green crepe
gown gleamed with matching sequins;
and Mrs. Norman Spry, her white crepe
gown also embellished with matching
sequins.
Frances Burke, who creates interesting
textile designs, has given members of the
Australian-American Association a plan
of decoration for the Coral Sea Ball, to
be held at St. Kilda on May 2. The
Town Hall will be transformed into the
deck of a ship, with the various sections
divided off by railing. The front of the
stage will form the poop-deck, with the
rolling sea in the background. Island
murals will loom large in the decorative
scheme. A field-gun and two tackle-
blocks, preserved from the time of Lord
Nelson, will be kindly loaned by the
R.A.N., as will the naval ensigns spelling
out in the foyer in international code
“Coral Sea.” Table, decorations, which
are in the hands of Patricia Wawn, will
also be nautical. Each table will have
its own fish-net, coral and shells and its
own steamship, the Coral Sea. Tables
in the official enclosure will bear real
flower catamarans. Members of the
Coral Sea Ball committee are the presi-
dent, Mrs. R. G. Casey, Rhoda Taylor,
who is organising the ball, Mesdames
Harold Brockoff, F. P. Callahan and G.
H. Davies. They will be assisted by
Susan Kitchen and Yvonne Pusch.
In glorious autumn weather the Mel-
bourne Racing Club held the first of its
Easter meetings at Flemington. Mrs. :
Pultney Mein, wife of the chairman, gave
a large luncheon party and during the
afternoon entertained many guests at
afternoon tea. Her smart black jacket-
suit was worn with> a lime silk blouse;
similar-toned satin ribbon trimmed her
small black hat. Her daughter, Mrs.
Maurice Nicholas, was in a tailored navy
suit and grey-feather-trimmed small navy
hat. Another daughter, Mrs. Alison
Stuart, wore a beige suit and small match-
ing hat. Mrs. R. V. Monahan’s small
black hat, trimmed with contrasting
shades of pink roses, went with a black
ensemble. Mrs. W. S. Cox set off her
grey tailored suit with navy accessories.
The skirt of Mrs. A. W. Foster’s ink-
blue tweed suit had two box-peats front
and back. Sydney visitor Irene Brown
wore over her black ensemble a white
ermine tippet. Zara Davies chose beige
gaberdine for her jacket-suit; dark- and
light-green felt combined to make her
attractive bonnet, which was tied under
her chin. Pauline James wore a light-
grey suit with a full-pleated skirt; a
bright yellow feather adorned her small
grey hat. Setting off the navy wool frock
worn by Betty Jackson was a stole of
Royal Stuart tartan, and her gay little
cap was fashioned of similar tartan,
A cedar-brown Harris tweed topcoat
and a matching hat made smart alliance
for Mrs. J. S. Disney, An ermine coat
with a brown beret was the choice of the
Wales lady. A London-tan gaberdine
suit was worn by Mrs. Ray Joseph with
a winter-whke felt hat in which were
London-tan feathers. Mrs. John Reilly’s
black Persian-lamb-trimmed coat was
worn with a black hat trimmed with
ruby-red velvet. Mrs.- G. Alderton’s grey
suit was matched with an upturned felt
hat, feather-trimmed. A mustard tweed
suit and winter-white felt hat, the crown
sewn with tiny gold beads and finished
with feathers, made neat combination for
Mrs. Bill McGowan. Her sister, Mrs.
Leo Curtis, was in a brown suit, the jacket
of which was a modern version of the
Norfolk jacket. Mrs. A. Prahl’s junior
navy frock was worn with a matching
toque and white ermine necklet. Mrs.
Norman Carlyon’s pewter-grey frock, the
skirt featuring an apron front, was worn
with a wide-brimmed black hat edged
with black grosgrain ribbon.


Only from
Scotland
can true
Scotch Whisky
come
Born 1820
still going strong
JOHNNIE
WALKER
D istilled and Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS
OF KILMARNOCK, SCOTLAND; LONDON AND SYDNEY
JW.123.12A
The Australian
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Knitting, Crochet and
Needlecraft
Health Talk, Mothercraft
Serial, Short Stories and
Special Articles
On sale everywhere
Price 3d.
“THIS
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features
cf high-priced imported
machines at only a frac-
tion of their cost. The
"National” Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce
Typing. Writing. Plans,
Music, etc.
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
Built entirely In Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
SYDNEY W. C. Penfold & Co. Pty. Ltd.
MELBOURNE . Norman Bros. Pty Ltd.
ADELAIDE . Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH . Docket Book Co. (Ausl.)
»
Vonfmt
till winter conies,
and freeze again-
insulate
your home wot with
8.1. SIWMOOI
No House, No Home, No Office —or
building is modem and entirely healthy
unless it is insulated preferably with
8.1. SLAGWOOL.
81-Cl3
Insulation
TELEPHONES: SYDNEY M 3038 • MELBOURNE MO 3506
vScWgPj?/ BRISBANE B 3604 • ADELAIDE C 7257 • PERTH L 2407
THE SERVICE MAN
Chiang Sees It Through
“EkDum”: News from China
continues to be nebulous and
scarce, despite the importance to
the whole world of what is hap-
pening there. Last week a few
paragraphs appeared in the daily
Press about the new offensive
which the Communists were sup-
posedly conducting—of course
on “a grand scale” —to take
Nanking, Hankow (described as
the capital’s “western bastion”),
and to move on South China.
Then it was reported that a
cease-fire order had been issued
and that the parties were con-
ferring on a new basis. Mao,
the Communist commander, it
was hinted, had dropped his de-
mand that Chiang Kai-shek and
some of his followers should be
tried as “war criminals.”
If the Communists are the
overwhelming force which they
are supposed to be the whole
position is inexplicable. Chiang
Kai-shek has retired to his an-
cestral home a couple of hundred
miles' south-east of Nanking and
presumably is ill-defended. Some
of the other leaders have retired
to Canton, which is a long way
away. Hundreds of thousands or
millions of Communist troops
have been throwing their
shadows over the outskirts of
Nanking for heaven knows how
long, but nothing happens except
a few desultory outbreaks fol-
lowed by temporary “arrange-
ments.” Chinese wars obviously
do not change in nature. And
neither side seems to have any
real staying-power or resources
on a “Great Power” scale.
It is six months since the
Nanking Government lost its
hold on Manchuria. The Com-
munists captured Chinchow on
October 15, and Changchun,
with the Nationalist 60th Army,
surrendered on October 18. The
Nationalist corridor to the north
was now completely closed and
Mukden cut off, though the
Chinese forces which had been
in the city were reported to be
trying to fight their way out.
Chiang Kai-shek admitted the
fall of Mukden early in
November, but was still confident
that General Fu Tso-yi could
hold the north of China, though
his speech to the Kuomintang
was, in effect, an admission of
disaster and of the need for a
complete reorganisation of
Chinese Army methods.
Millions and Millions
The Communists almost im-
mediately began a drive south-
ward towards Suchow (Anwhei),
an important communication
centre about 200 miles from
Nanking, Chiang’s capital.
Ten days after Chiang’s speech
the “greatest battle of the civil
war,” according to Lieut,-
General Teng Wen-yi, a repre-
sentative of the Central Govern-
ment, was going on in the
Suchow area. The Communists
were supposed to have contri-
buted 21 armies, totalling a
rough half-million, to this engag-
ing spectacle, which appealed to
Chiang’s spokesman as fiercer
than anything in the Chinese-
Japanese campaigns, in which
the . Chinese had very sensibly
stopped running whenever they
felt that the Japanese were out of
breath or were so far away as
to be unable to catch up.
The Nationalists naturally had
spirited an equal number of men
into the area to oppose the
nefarious agents of Stalin —who,
incidentally, owed their intro-
duction to China very largely to
Chiang Kai-shek.
By no possible known applica-
tion of logistics was it conceiy-
able that these assemblies could
have taken place on a modern
war basis in the time available or
even in 10 times the time avail-
able, especially having regard to
the nature of Chinese railways
and roads and food supplies and
the fact that the Communists had
communication lines comparable
in length with those from, say,
Alexandria to El Agheila. in
World War 11.
However, within a day or two
the Communists announced “re-
sounding victories,” and the
Chiang forces decided that they
were killing Communists even
faster than they used to kill Japs
—in an idle moment the writer
n ~, , XT . }■ [
once totted up the Nationalist
esfimate of casuaides among the
ill-fated Nipponese over a period
and discovered that twice the
known Japanese forces in China
had gone west. Only General-
issimo Stalin has bettered that —
his two German armies cut down
by Cossacks in a morning and
two Panzer divisions thrown into
a river before lunch still con-
stilute an unbeaten record. And
they must have been genuine,
since they were accepted as
“So long!”
gospel by the Sydney daily
Press.
More Victories
Presently it was announced
that, though they had had sub-
stantial victories, the Nationalist
commanders felt it prudent to
shorten their lines. Prudence
was certainly commendable, even
though the beginning of the re-
treat was marked by a stagger-
ing Nationalist victory in which
37,000 Communists were wiped
out in a single engagement while
trying to cross the Grand Canal,
east of Suchow.
The Communists naturally
could not allow Chiang and his
men to get away with that, so
they immediately won a resound-
ing victory west of Suchow,
utterly immolating Chiang’s
Seventh Army Corps and sur-
rounding the Second Army
Corps.
Following this Waterloo,
Nanking proved the “utter col-
lapse” of the Communist effort
east of Suchow, as a counter to
which the Communists claimed
to be at Suhsien, 50 miles nearer
Nanking.
Nanking promptly declared
this to be a base lie, and re-
ported that the Communists were
actually retreating from Suchow
in utter disorder, urged on by an
irresistible air-attack from the
Chinese National Air Force —an
institution which had hitherto
enjoyed the unenviable reputa-
tion of killing more passengers
than enemies.
All this had happened in the
first three weeks of November —
operations which it would have
taken an effete Western Euro-
pean nation like Britain, if well
prepared for a beginning, at least
six months to consummate,
especially in winter.
The Communists were now
supposedly running like fun “on
all sectors,” though independent
reports from seasoned war cor-
respondents, who sounded as if
they had been trained on the
Moscow front under Solomon
Losovsky, reported some of the
neatest wholesale jobs of killing
on record by the Communist
artillery, which averaged about
19 Chinese a pop, to the grand
total of hundreds of thousands.
The Nationalists were modest
enough to limit their claims to
130,000 all-round casualties in-
flicted on their enemies at the
rate of about 7000 a day, while
their own losses were placed at
40.000.
Chiang Goes Home
Chiang, meanwhile, at the be-
ginning of the battle had said
that whatever happened—and he
admitted that the loss of Mukden
was about the worst setback the
Government had suffered in the
whole war —there would be no
negotiation with the Communists,
even though there had been, on
his estimate, over 3,000,000
casualties on both sides within
two years up to the end of 1947.
But already, two months before,
the Communists had established
a North China People’s Govern-
ment, which controlled
44.000. people according to
its own say-so, and which pro-
posed to consider itself a nucleus
of an all-China Government.
Little has happened since
November. Chiang retired to his
home estate. Various generals
have been busy canvassing the
possibility of starting out in busi-
ness on their own accounts. The
Communists have been consoli-
dating their hold over perhaps
160,000,000 people, and infiltrat-
ing the other 300,000,000.
China remains what it has been
for nearly a quarter of a century
at least: an amorphous mass of
population living on the bread-
line, with Chiang cells in some
areas imposing something like
Government and local taipans in
others ruling for their own pros-
perity with the kind of Govern-
ment the Chinese best understand
—with “cumshaw and the stick.”
The Communists, however,
have a long way to go before
they have conquered China; a
still further long way before it
will be moulded into any use-
fulness.
Comic Opera at U.N.O.
The National Government’s
one consolation is that it is still
recognised in U.N.O. as one of
the Great Powers with a veto.
The only thing it doesn’t seem to
be able to veto is the advance of
the Communists from the north
—a piece of brutal and unpro-
voked aggression about which
the Security Council is discreetly
saying nothing whatever.
One of the most humorous
facts is that in November last,
while the Chinese armies were
being chased into the suburbs of
their own capital by Mao s mob
of half-armed roughnecks and
looters, China was providing
the chairman controlling the ad-
ministration of U.N.O. s Mili-
tary Staff Committee, on which


No Investor Can Afford
To Be Without It
ECONOMIC REVIEWS
INVESTMENT ANALYSES
MINING NOTES
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George-strefct. Sydney, and all States.
Single Copies
Yearly Subscription
.. 2/-
.. 22/6
You can taste the
extra flavour
, in 353 Virginia
cigarettes...”
THE SECRET’S IN THE 333's
BLEND
SKATE EXPRESS
333
738 D-12-48
HOW TO REDUCE
DELIVERY COSTS
I Wwv
m b&
FTT832.24
THE VAN WITH THE EXTRA SPACE
Carries more . . .
Ford Ten-Ten Is cleverly laid out to give you the
maximum amount of loadspace for 10 cwt.
bulk. On a 90" wheelbase, and with semi-
forward control, you have a full-sized van body
of 120 cubic feet ! Wide doors, front and rear,
save valuable handling time. The van is easy
to turn and park in narrow streets. And with
its trim modern appearance it will carry your
name as smartly as it carries your goods.
Costs less . . .
Basic costs are lower purchase price, registra-
tion, insurance and depreciation. Operating
costs are less too, with 10 h.p. economy for
stop-and-go running, and a sturdy chassis
engineered throughout to carry the full
10 cwt. payload.
Your Ford Dealer will gladly call and show you how the Ten-Ten will save money for YOUR business.
Place your order with your local Ford Distributor or Dealer
I57H*
45 / 2
-52
—-S4"
Check these gener-
ous measurements
against the loads
you will normally
need to carry.
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTO {INC. !N VIC.; R£3,; OFFICE GEELONG, VIC.
Britain, the United States, France
and Russia are the other Powers
represented.
The command and control of
this body changes month about,
presumably so that if a couple
of Dr. Evatt’s angels of peace,
happen to be at war with each
other each side shall be treated
impartially.
In Germany.
“Ek Dum”; There is a lull in
Europe while the preliminary
arrangements for the establish-
ment of a republic in Western
Germany on July 1 are settled
in detail —if they are settled at
all, since some strong sections
of the Western Germans are op-
posed to an arrangement on the
present basis and propose to
submit a “simpler” constitution.
The handing-over of the Saar
to France has not helped mat-
ters, and the problem of dealing
with Berlin and with Austria is
more than incidental to the
main issue.
Even if Western Germany
were to accept wholeheartedly
the proposed arrangement, Ber-
lin still remains something with
which nobody seems to know
how to deal. The Russians hang
to the eastern half of it, and
will continue to do so. They are
showing no signs of loosening the
blockade at the moment, but if
they do it will be merely for the
purpose of conciliating the
Western Germans and trying to
lead them out of the Western
Allies’ hands. If they do not,
and Western Germany becomes
a republic, with West Berlin as
a “province,” the position of the
historic capital will be very much
as if Sydney from Brickfield Hill
southward and out to Parra-
matta (including all air-routes,
roads and railways going south
and west) were put behind the
iron curtain and the rest left be-
hind 120 miles of iron curtain
completely closed to ground ,
transport in any direction.
The Allies can scarcely loosen
their grip on the West to any
extent until the fate of Austria
has been settled. Just now it
has as much a catch-as-catch-
can Government as Germany,
except that the Russians there
are even more truculent and
lawless than they are in Berlin.
Austria is even more important
in many ways than Northern
Germany, since through it runs
the best all-weather route to
western Europe from the Rus-
sian borders. Through it runs,
also, the great transport channel
of the Danube and through it
lies the Allied way to Yugo-
slavia and Greece.
To the Russians, apart from
these things and even if they
decided to strike only in the
north of Europe across the Elbe,
as they probably would, it repre-
sents a secondary line of ap-
proach well shielded and sup-
plied from their own territory
in Czechoslovakia if they could
get possession of it.
If they could not take it over
it would mean a dangerous flank
and enemy communication-line
which would menace the suc-
cess of their whole campaign
and compel them to use twice
as many fighting troops as other-
wise—not that this last aspect
matters very much to them.
To any Western campaign
Czechoslovakia is vitally im-
portant to Russia as would be
Sweden and Denmark, since
they have technical resources
which are not available to the
U.S.S.R.
In the attitude of the
Russians over Berlin there is no
soft-pedalling of Moscow propa-
ganda. It still exudes hatred and
takes war for granted, though it
had not at the time this was writ-
ten presented any comment on
the British note in answer to the
Kremlin’s protest against the
Atlantic Pact.
This stern document pointed
out that the pact was not, as had
been suggested, an infringement
of Article 7 of the Yalta Treaty,
which forbids the entry by any
party into an agreement aimed
at any other party.
The British Note indicated
that the Atlantic Pact was aimed
only at “aggression,” and that,
therefore, unless Russia became
an aggressor and thus broke the
terms of Article 7 itself it could
not be involved.
However, the British called
attention to a few breaches of
the Yalta Pact by the Kremlin
itself and asked how the Russian
Government could reconcile the
events of the past three years
with Marshal Stalin’s firm assur-
ances that his country had no
territorial ambitions or intention
of interfering with the internal
Governments and systems of
other countries.
Women in War.
“Ek Dum”: It has been an-
nounced that Miss Inayat-Khan,
a well-known writer of children’s
books, who had been shot by the
Nazis in September, 1944, had
been awarded a posthumous
George Cross —which ranks with
the Victoria Cross, but the rib-
bon of which will be worn after
the V.C. ribbon if and when
anybody ever wins both decora-
tions.
The poor woman, 42 years
old, had been through much of
the internal battle of France, the
first British woman-soldier of
the Intelligence section to be
parachuted into that country.
She had been tortured and ill-
treated for months, but she
failed to give information which
would have enabled the enemy
to break up the British liaison
with the French “underground”
—which, in spite of subsequent
Communist lying, . would not
have operated at all if it had
not been for British enterprise.
So she was shot in the back of
the head against a mound out-
side the crematorium at Ravens-
bruck.
It is a singular tribute to the
unbridled ferocity and uncivi-
lised savagery with which World
War II was conducted that the
executions of British Intelligence
women by the Germans has
scarcely been noticed, in contrast
to the world outcry against the
shooting of Nurse Cavell in
World War I,
It was a horrible business. No
less than 52 British military
women were killed, some by fir-
ing-squads, some by being shot
in ‘ the back of the head and
some by strychnine injection.
Most of them were intelligent
above the average, well educated
and an asset to the country.
The youngest to be executed
was little Violet Szabo, in her
early twenties, a fine linguist,
cultivated of mind and brought
up in the surroundings of a pros-
perous family with everything
worth living for ahead of her.
She was captured in actual
battle and was shot against the
crematorium wall. She also was
awarded the George Cross.
It might be hoped that this
would be the last war in which
civilised countries at least would
risk their young girls and
womenfolk in this way. There
seems to be relatively little to
gain by it. And the lesson of
history seems to be that once the
women of a nation come down
to the battlefield humanity is on
its way to the Dark Ages again.
The reason Mr. Dmitrov,
Premier of Bulgaria, is going to
Russia ostensibly is that he is ill
and needs medical attention. But
a suspicious mind might connect
his journey with permanent
duties concerned with the world
situation. He has been General
Secretary of the Comintern. And
Mr. Thornton and other promi-
nent overseas Comrades are in
Russia. Dmitrov knew the Aus-
tralian party which named its
secret and illegal Press in the
period it was “suppressed”
during the war the “Dmitrov
Press.” It was the specific order
of Dmitrov which led to its light-
ning change of views on the war
in September, 1939,


your dependants look to to make the wisest choice
Your choice of an Executor and Trustee is a decision which directly
affects the welfare of your dependants. Your Trustee should be
chosen for his business knowledge, integrity, experience, perma-
nence and financial stability, otherwise you may imperil your
family’s inheritance. An executor should not be selected on
grounds of sentiment or affection. Avoid all risks by appointing the
Permanent Trustee Company. '’You can then be assured of expert
administration of your affairs, combined with absolute security and
safety.
Why not call and discuss this matter further with one of our
Executive Officers? Or write for free booklet, “Trust Estates and
Their Management.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bondt Chairman
F. H. Way, Vice-Chairman
Cecil H. Doyle F. W. Hixson, 0.8. E., V.D.
G. Moncrieff Barron, 0.8. E., M.R.ChM.. F.R.A.C.S.
J. R. Faviell
Manager: N. L. Shaw
Asst. Manager: C. N. P. Whittle Sub Manager ; S. U. White
Secretary: F. R. Garland
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET
aewr
SYDNEY. NEW SOUTH WALES
PT. 13.19
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
RUSSIA IN U.N.O.
From a factual account of the
Soviet record in U.N.0., as given
in a U.S. State Department re-
port, published in the “American
Mercury”:
The U.S.S.R. has pursued a
policy of hamstringing activities
of the Security Council and the
General Assembly. It has treated
with an indifference verging on
contempt those decisions of the
General Assembly of which the
U.S.S.R. did not approve, even
though accepted by the over-
whelming majority of nations.
By refusing or neglecting to
take part in the work of many
U.N. affiliated organs, such as
Balkan and Korean Commis-
sions, Interim Committee, etc.,
the Soviet Union weakened the
authority of those organs as
world assemblies.
Within the U.N. organs the
Soviet delegations have fre-
quently pursued a policy of
aggrandising Soviet influence
while doing nothing to secure
effective action. Although the
most eminent leaders of the
U.S.S.R. Stalin, Molotov,
Zhdanov and Vyshinsky—have
reiterated in postwar days the
statements that the “capitalist”
and “socialist” spheres could co-
exist peacefully, Soviet represen-
tatives have frequently used
U.N. assemblies for wordy as-
saults on the Western Powers
and their prominent leaders.
This has been consistent with
the Marxian philosophy of the
struggle and inevitable final
armed conflict between the two
worlds of capitalism and social-
ism, but hardly conducive to the
maintenance of international
good relations or to the abate-
ment of fear of war.
In the Security Council
The Security Council is in
some respects the favorite organ
of the Soviet representatives
among all the U.N. agencies. In
1947, when the U.N. budget was
under consideration, the Soviet
delegation proposed a reduction
in fSTe budgec for all the U.N.
organs except the Security Coun-
cil.
This favoritism is due, of
course, to the fact that the most
important acts of the Security
Council require the support of
all the permanent members of
the Council, which gives the
Soviet Union the power to veto
any act not to its liking, subject
to the special waiver of the veto
power under Article 27-3 of the
Charter.
Of the permanent members,
only the U.S.S.R. has used the
veto extensively (France has
used the veto twice), the twenty-
eighth Soviet veto having been
cast on October 25, 1948 [and
the thirtieth this present month].
(1) Membership Applications
Vetoed.
The veto has been used most
often to prevent the entry into
the U.N. of new members.
States which have‘been blocked
from U.N, membership as a re-
sult of Soviet vetoes include
Transjordan, Fire, Portugal,
Italy, Finland, Austria and Cey-
lon. [The thirtieth veto was used
to block Southern Korea.]
The vetoes on Italy and Fin-
land were especially notorious
because the U.S.S.R. representa-
tives conceded that these States
were qualified for membership,
but refused to approve them be-
cause the application of the
other ex-enemy States (Hungary,
Rumania, Bulgaria) could not
command the support of a
Security Council majority.
Apropos of this, the represen-
tative of the U.S. (Mr. Austin)
remarked that “horse-trading is
recognised as entirely proper and
appropriate at a country fair,
but it is not appropriate in the
Security Council.”
International Court Rulings
The Soviet representatives
based their opposition to the
admission of the foregoing
—Chicago “Tribune.”
“I’LL BE THERE!”
countries on their poor war
record, their lack of relations
with the U.S.S.R. or their alleged
subservience to another Power.
The obvious motivation, how-
ever, was fear that these coun-
tries would be unlikely to add
strength in U.N. organs to the
Soviet-satellite bloc. No sup-
port can be found in the Charter
of the U.N. for the conditions
introduced by the Soviet delega-
tion.
In an advisory opinion of May
28, 1948, the International Court
of Justice ruled that a member
could not make its consent to ad-
mission of another State de-
pendent on conditions not speci-
fied in the Charter, which re-
quires simply that States be
peace-loving and that they ac-
cept the obligations of the
Charter and be able and willing
to carry out these obligations.
Furthermore, the court stated
that a member could not make
its affirmative vote for the ad-
mission of any State subject to
the admission of other States.
This applied specifically to the
Soviet behavior regarding Italy
and Finland.
(2) Membership Applications
Promoted.
The Soviet Union has dis-
played no scruples about pro-
moting the membership applica-
tions of countries dependent,
completely or largely, on the
U.S.S.R. Thus, Soviet repre-
sentatives have urged the accept-
ance as U.N. members of Soviet
Balkan satellites and the Mon-
golian People’s Republic, none
of which can pursue a policy in-
dependent of the U.S.S.R.
An even more striking in-
stance is the Soviet sponsorship
of U.N. membership for the
member States of the U.S.S.R.,
the Union republics.
Absurd Concession
Soviet representatives
attempted in 1944 to secure ad-
mittance to the future world
peace organisation for all 16 of
the Union republics which col-
lectively form the U.S.S.R, This
demand was dropped in the
course of negotiations, the
U.S.S.R. insisting only on the
admittance of the Ukrainian and
Belorussian Republics, a condi-
tion finally accepted by the other
Powers.
The Soviet argument for these
two States was that they had
played an important part in the
war. There was no suggestion
that these States were more
“sovereign” than the other 14
Union republics.
The Soviet Union has also
sought, unsuccessfully, the ad-
mission of the Latvian, Lithu-
anian and Estonian republics to
the Universal Postal Union and
the International Telecommuni-
cations Union,
As independent republics,
these Baltic States had been
members of both organisations
until 1940. After annexing these
countries in 1940 the U.S.S.R.
wrote to the I.T.U. that their
membership should be con-
sidered to have ceased.
In 1946 the U.S.S.R. revoked
the 1940 notification, citing as a
basis the 1944 amendments to
the Constitution of the U.S.S.R.
(which gave the Union republics
the right to carry on foreign
relations and to establish their
own armies).
Considerations of expediency
have discouraged Soviet repre-
sentatives from pressing their
claims for other republics in ad-
dition to the five mentioned, but
they can always pull such claims
out of the hat, since in Soviet
constitutional theory all of the
Union republics are on an
equal basis. Actually, these
“sovereign” republics do not
manage their own finances, have
no control over the heavy in-
dustry within their borders, are
subject to the Five-Year plans of
the U.S.S.R. and must gear their
agriculture to all-U.S.S.R. pro-
grammes.
Every department head in
every Union republic is respons-
ible, directly or indirectly, to
some authority in Moscow.
Often he is summoned to Mos-
cow to account for acts of
omission or commission. Even
mayors (chairman or executive
committees of City Soviets) are
called before U.S.S.R. organs to
get “guidance” and directives on
the management of their city
affairs. Transjordan and Ceylon
may well ask: “If this be
sovereignty, what is suzerainty?”
(3) Veto : Now and Then.
Apart from membership ap-
plications, the Soviet representa-
tives employed the veto against
resolutions concerning the
“Spanish question,” the “Greek
question,” the “Indonesian ques-
tion,” the withdrawal of troops
from Syria and Lebanon, the
responsibility of Albania for the
Corfu Channel incident, the
question of Soviet interference in
Czechoslovakia, the report of the
Atomic Energy Commission and
the proposal for settling the
four-Power dispute over Berlin.
[ln the Corfu Channel case the
International Court this month
passed its comment on the Soviet
veto and fully justified Britain’s
taking the issue to U.N.0., find-
ing outright for Britain against
Albania.]
The present Soviet insistence
on the veto is in sharp contrast
to the Soviet proposal of 1936
for bettering the League of
Nations by elimination of the
unanimity rule in the Council.
The proposal, submitted on
August 22, 1936, by the U.S.S.R.
People’s Commissar of Foreign
Affairs (Litvinov) urged that de-
cisions on the application of
military or economic sanctions to
aggressor nations should require
only a three-fourths majority in
the Council, rather than the
unanimous consent specified in
the Covenant of the League.
In the General Assembly
(1) Contempt for U.N. Com-
missions.
Because the General Assembly
is not hindered in its operation
by veto rights it has been able
to function more effectively in
some respects than the Security
Council, The U.S.S.R. has not
been able to block the passage
of measures desired by the en-
tire non-Soviet world.
This flexibility has been off-
set, however, by elements of im-
potence caused by the General
Assembly’s lack of power to im-
plement decisions which the
Soviet Union chooses to defy or
ignore.
The U.N. Special Commission
on the Balkans was established
to investigate the dangerous
situation of internecine civil war
in Northern Greece and the role
of Greece’s northern neighbors
in relationship to that struggle.
The U.S.S.R. opposed the estab-
lishment of this commission and
supported the position of
Albania, Yugoslavia and Bul-
garia in refusing to co-operate
with the Commission or to allow
the Commission to enter the
satellites’ territory. (Bulgaria
finally allowed a subcommission
to enter briefly in 1948.)
When the General Assembly
created a U.N. Temporary Com-
mittee on Korea the U.S.S.R.
again refused to have anything
to do with its operations. The
Ukrainian delegate, completely
subservient to the U.S.S.R., was
appointed to the committee, but
refused to serve. As the occupy-
ing Power in Korea north of
the thirty-eighth degree of lati-
tude, the U.S.S.R. would not
allow the committee to operate
in its occupation zone, and re-
fused to allow the people of
North Korea to participate in
the elections held under commit-
tee supervision.
(2) The “Warmongering ”
Campaign.
In the General Assembly the
Soviet representatives have re-
peatedly produced diversions of
the kind typified by the Soviet
campaign against “warmonger-
ing,” begun in the fall of 1947.
This campaign was characterised
by much invective, but resulted
in little save a disturbance of
the normal ratio of talk to
action.
The use of this international
forum as a sounding-board for
propaganda casting sharp asper-
sions on the character of non-
Soviet society has degraded the
General Assembly and made
more difficult the creation of
mutual trust.
A resolution condemning
“warmongering” was passed by
the General Assembly on
November 3, 1947, which im-
posed an obligation on member
States of the U.N. to take steps '
“within constitutional limits” to
promote “by means of publicity
and propaganda” friendly rela»
tions among nations and to en-
courage the dissemination of in-
formation designed to give ex-
pression to popular desires for
peace.
This resolution had little effect
on the problem at which it was
aimed, while the charges regard-
ing “warwongering” before and
after passage of the resolution
have done much to increase
mutual hostility.
Certainly the resolution seems
to have had no effect on Soviet
propaganda, a sampling of which
propaganda, post - resolution
variety, indicates no increase
but a decrease in the pro-
moting of friendly relations
among nations. The November
6, 1947, speech by Molotov on
the anniversary of the revolution
contained not one single word
which could have been designed
to promote friendly relations be-
tween East and West.
On the contrary, almost every
other sentence bristled with dis-
paraging phrases directed to-
ward the Western States —“hos-
tile capitalist encirclement,”
“capitalist bondage,” “bestial
anti-Soviet enmity,” “aggressive
military and political plans of
American imperialism,” “crea-
tion of military bases as prepara-
tion for aggression,” “so-called
Western freedom of the press,”


Bring them down..
with clean-killing
ELEY-KYNOCH
Shotgun Cartridges
An abundance of quail, a good dog,
and a supply of Eley-Kynoch Grand
Prix cartridges will ensure a perfect
day’s shooting.
Make every shot a winner, ask your
storekeeper for 8 or 10 shot Eley-
Kynoch Grand Prix Cartridges.
53
\v\
w
ICI
UN
ELEY-KYNOCH
Shotgun
CARTRIDGES
rs.?g
IMPERIAL
CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
“expansionist circles in the
U.5.A.,” “the British and Ameri-
can frank imperialism.” [Simi-
larly with the ceaseless Soviet
radio and other propaganda
since, for which the Molotov
speech set the pattern.]
In Other U.N.O. Organs
(1) Interim Committee of the
General Assembly.
When the General Assembly
proceeded to establish its In-
terim Committee (“Little
Assembly”) to operate between
the second and third sessions of
the General Assembly, the
U.S.S.R. served notice that it
would have nothing to do with
this body.
The Soviet representatives ab-
sented themselves, despite the
fact that the Interim Committee
was intended to be broadly
representative of all nations who
were members of the U.N. The
Soviet delegation carried in its
wake the delegations of the satel-
lites.
(2) LEO.
The Soviet Union has never
rejoined the International Labor
Organisation, to which it once
belonged, despite the fact that
the 1.L.0. had always interested
itself in improving labor
standards, an ideal to which
Soviet representatives always pay
lip-service.
(3) International Bank and
Monetary Fund.
After initial flirtation with the
international financial organs,
the U.S.S.R. adopted an attitude
of indifference. It is not a mem-
ber of either the International
Monetary Fund or the Interna-
— N. Y. “World-Telegram.”
PYRAMID CLUB.
tional Bank for Reconstruction
and Development.
This manifestation of indiffer-
ence did not prevent the U.S.S.R.
fom participating actively in
U.N. discussions of the relation-
ship between the U.N. and these
auxiliary agencies. The U.S.S.R.
attempted, unsuccessfully, to
secure more U.N control over
operations of both agencies, a
measure which would have en-
abled the Soviet Union to in-
fluence activities without assum-
mg the rights and duties of par-
ticipation.
(4) U.N.E.S.C.O.
In view of the Soviet tendency
to keep a closed Soviet Union
shop regarding cultural exchange
it is not surprising that the
U.S.S.R. has kept out of
U.N.E.5.C.0., the United
Nations Educational, Scientific
and Cultural Organisation. The
entire purpose of U.N.E.S.C.O.
centres on international intellec-
tual co-operation and exchange,
whereas the dominant philo-
sophy of the Soviet regime in-
sists that the only worthwhile
exchange is the exchange of
other systems of thought and be-
hayior for the type of Marxism
embodied in the Soviet system.
(5) Specialised Agencies.
As mentioned before, the
U.S.S.R. participates in the Uni-
versal Postal Union and the In-
ternational Tele-communications
Union. Of the remaining U.N.
—San Francisco “Chronicle.”
MAYBE A CHANGE COMING UP?
auxiliaries the Soviet has par-
ticipated in the World Health
Organisation (to which it has not
sent certain required data on
health conditions in the
U.S.S.R.), but declines to partici-
pate in the International Civil
Aviation Organisation (1.C.A.0.),
the International Refugee Or-
ganisation (1.R.0.), the Interna-
tional Trade Organisation
(1.T.0.), and the Food and Agri-
culture Organisation (F.A.0.).
In the latter case Soviet repre-
sentatives participated in the
preliminary work of organisa-
tion of F.A.0., and Soviet co-
operation was especially sought
because agricultural conditions
in the U.S.S.R. can seriously
affect world agriculture.
(6) Economic and Social Coun-
cil (E.C.0.5.0.C.).
The Soviet Union’s avoidance
of participation in some
auxiliary agencies is nicely bal-
anced by an eagerness to partici-
pate in other agencies, despite
the opposition of members, who
felt that the Soviet representa-
fives would use the agency for
purely propagandistic purposes,
Of the Regional Economic
Commissions formed under the
Economic and Social Council,
the U.S.S.R. was accorded mem-
bership on the Economic Com-
mission for Europe (E.C.E.) and
the Economic Commission for
Asia and the Far East
(E.C.A.F.E.). At a session in
1947 the U.S.S.R. tried without
success to have E.C.E. operate
with a two-thirds rule, which
would have given the Soviet
satellites a veto power,
Both E.C.E. and E.C.A.F.E.
have been used by Soviet repre-
sentatives for development of
propaganda themes having little
bearing on any work of the
Commissions, with the emphasis
in E.C.E. on anti-Marshall Plan
propaganda and in E.C.A.F.E.
on anti-imperialism.
The U.S.S.R. presented a re-
quest (subsequently rejected) for
membership in the Economic
Commission for the Middle East
(E.C.M.E.), based on the claim
of contiguity with the area. The
claim was opposed by the
Middle Eastern countries. It
was pointed out that even the
United Kingdom was not to be
represented on E.C.M.E, despite
the U.K.’s responsibility for ad-
ministration of dependent
Middle Eastern areas.
The U.S.S.R. also attempted,
again, without success, to secure
a place on the Economic Com-
mission for Latin America
(E.C.L.A.), basing its claim on
the “important role” played by
the U.S.S.R. in “settling inter-
national economic problems.”
In the Economic and Social
Council the Soviet representa-
tives have been chary of offer-
ing solid facts regarding the
U.S.S.R. economic picture.
When the U.N. Secretariat pub-
lished in 1948 a 350-page Eco-
nomic Report: Salient Features
of the World Economic Situa-
tion, 1945-47, it was compelled
because of the lack of data to
omit the U.S.S.R. from its sur-
vey.
Professor Arutyunyan, the
Soviet representative, noted this
omission in a speech of February
24, 1948, to E.C.0.5.0.C. The
speech was filled, however, with
the usual type of Soviet statis-
tics: production figures mixed
plans with achievements, and
they were all stated as percentage
increases over an unknown prior
figdre.
(7) Trusteeship Council.
The U.S.S.R. ended a long
boycott of the Trusteeship
Council (in which it was auto-
matically entitled to representa-
tion in virtue of its permanent
membership on the Security
Council) in April, 1948, when it
named a representative.
The Soviet delegation ap-
parently decided that it was
overlooking a good opportunity
to give wider circulation to
propaganda about “colonialism”
and “imperialism.” Subsequently
Soviet representatives entered
dissents to most of the reports
of the Trusteeship Council on
the administration of dependent
areas.
Against Disarmament
(8) Armament and Atomic
Agencies.
Despite its promotion of
various disarmament proposals
in the General Assembly and
elsewhere, the U.S.S.R. has oc-
cupied a distinctly minority posi-
tion on the question of means of
bringing about control or reduc-
tion of armed forces and arma-
ment.
Both the Atomic Energy Com-
mission and the Committee on
Conventional Armaments have
come to a standstill because of
the intransigence of the Soviet-
satellite minority in opposing all
measures agreed to by the rest
of the world.
Thus the Committee on Con-
ventional Armaments reported
on August 17, 1948, that it was
impossible to resolve the differ-
ences over non-atomic disarma-
ment in view of East-West dis-
trust. Earlier, in May, 1948, at
its two hundred and twenty-
second meeting the Atomic
Energy Commission voted to
suspend operations after two
years of meetings. It adopted by
9-2 vote (U.S.S.R., Ukrainian
S.S.R. against) a report summar-
ising its recommendations.
(9) Military Staff Committee.
The Military Staff Committee
of the Security Council has been
doing preparatory work on the
establishment of a U.N, military
force. For a long time after the
British, French, American and
Chinese estimates had been sub-
mitted Soviet representatives
continued to insist on an agree-
ment on principles prior to dis-
cussion of actual forces.
The Soviet representatives pre-
ferred a formula stressing
“equality of contribution” (as
against the formula of “com-
parability of contributions”
urged by the four other Powers).
Under the equality proposal the
contributions of any of the great
Powers would, in any category
of armaments, be limited to the
amount that the weakest of the
big Powers could contribute.
The Soviet Union was ap-
parently motivated by the desire
to minimise the utilisation of in-
struments of combat not in
Soviet employ. The estimates
tardily submitted by the U.S.S.R.
were consistent with this Soviet
bias, because they would have
provided smaller U.N. forces
than would have been organised
under any of the alternative pro-
posals submitted to the Military
Staff Committee,
When the Soviet proposal is
viewed in the light of the corol-
lary proposal of Soviet repre-
sentatives that the U.N. forces
should be located within the
frontier of the States supplying
the forces it becomes clear that
the U.S.S.R. was attempting to
minimise the potential influence
of U.N. armed forces.
Thus the record shows that
despite Soviet protestations of
. interest in a viable international
organisation, the U.S.S.R. par-
ticipation in the U.N. has been
characterised by obstructive tac-'
tics, refusal to co-operate in
U.N. activities to which the
U.S.S.R. was hostile or indiffer-
ent, use of U.N, organs as
forums for propaganda assaults
on the West and a general de-
rogation of the effectiveness of
the U.N.


A GOOD WARM SUN
BY ESME STRATHDEE
WHEN his family began to call
him “Old Chris” he knew his
work was finished. Fifty years
ago when he first came to this
country he had been young, strong, a
fighter. Now he was old and tired.
The sun that had ripened his corn,
sweetened his freshly-turned land and
burned his fresh complexion to a dull
brick-red, had, in the end, whitened his
hair until it lay like silver floss across
his shining scalp.
His sons were quite capable of carry-
ing on alone. For a long time now he
had been nominal boss only, consulted
less and less about the affairs of his great
property.
It rather bored him that there was no
longer any fight to be waged against the
elements. Water flowed from the river
pump-house when it was needed, tractors
crawled across the highly-productive
farming-ground he had transformed from
wilderness; the problem of soil erosion
on the eastern slopes was being tackled
in a modern, efficient manner by his
eldest grand-daughter, in whom he could
find no fault as a scientific farmer. He
was no longer needed, and stronger than
ever grew his deep-rooted desire to go
home to Denmark.
He was tired of hot suns and burning
winds. He longed to feel again the sharp
cold of feathery snow brushing his
cheeks, to see trees die in winter and
return to miraculous new life with the
coming of spring.
For long hours he sat on the porch,
thinking about the little cottage where
he had been born,...the flagged kitchen
with its low ceiling in which the odor of
smoke and cooking smells seemed trapped
for ever; his mother busy at the fire-
place ; the odor of stored apples drifting
down from the stable loft; the warm,
clean, pungent smell of cattle wintering
in barns ; the sour dankness of his father’s
cellar when he went to bring up a bottle
of wine for a passing traveller...
These things passed through his mind
with the clarity of much-repeated poetry.
But instead of words they were smells
and sounds, voices and scenes, more
clearly remembered now that he had
time to remember.
CHRISTIAN’S only daughter was
brisk and practical.
“You’re too old to travel all the way
to Denmark. Besides, fares are ridi-
culous. Wait a few years”
He was sitting in the squatter’s chair
they had bought him, drawn up close to
the back door. At his feet lay Bella, the
last cattle-dog he had trained and used.
Like her master, Bella was feeble in old
age.
He smiled wryly. From where he sat
he could see vast acres of a land he was
finished with.
“A few years. Flora. To a man of my
age there is no future. I’ll go now. Get
some pleasure from my money.”
Well, if he had won security, even
riches, from the soil he had never robbed
it. He liked to know that.
Flora laughed. She was hard in some
ways, as her mother had been. Some-
times, when she mocked at his idealism,
he got the idea that his wife lived again
in Flora, It comforted him having some-
body to scold, and to pour ridicule on his
dreams.
“We’re all hoping you’ll leave a bit
for us to spend,” she. said bluntly. Her
eyes were kind.
“So I will. But I’d like to be ex-
travagant myself, this once, before I
die. I’ve never squandered.”
“Die, my foot. You’re an old iron-
bark. You’ll go on for years.”
But he was not an iron-bark at heart.
He was a Dane, who had never com-
pletely forgotten the land of his birth.
His gnarled fingers strayed to the head
of his cattle-dog, fumbled with the
pricked blue ears.
FLORA came out of the kitchen and
flapped wet tea-towels vigorously,
before pegging them to a length of wire
taut across the verandah. Still with pegs
between her teeth, she said out of the
corner of her mouth, “Why don’t you get
Leo on his own, and put it to him, then?
You get anything you like out of him.
If you really want to go”
Christian nodded, wiping the moisture
out of his eyes. It irritated him in-
tensely, the way in which his eyes would
water. Bloody weakness, he would
mutter furiously.
He got to his feet and went out to
look for Leo, that very minute. Leo
stopped cleaning the oil-engine to listen.
He was Christian’s eldest son, and could
remember when his father was younger.
When he had been a father to fire the
imagination of any lad, a hard fighter,
hard drinker, tireless worker, with no
equal when it came to horsemanship.
Leo had never outgrown that boyish
worship. Dad was his model for living.
“Why shouldn’t you go?” He grinned
disparagingly. “You’ll only be falling
off your horse if you stop here, lying out
in the bush somewhere, with a crow pick-
ing your eyes out.”
Christian sighed his relief. Leo would
fix everything. Ride over family oppo-
sition. See to those new-fangled regula-
tions about overseas travel. And how
good it would be to get home. To hear
the language spoken again. Many words
he had forgotten, but he would soon get
into the way of the tongue again. Den-
mark seemed like a desirable dream,
misty and cool with drifting snow, beauti-
ful and within his reach. He went back
to his chair on the verandah.
The sun was warm on his dry flesh,
soaking into his stiff bones. A good sun.
But hard and brilliant in old eyes. He
stretched out his slippered feet, leaning
.back, shutting his eyes against the glare.
And the dream became a reality. He
was going by flying-boat. He thought he
would find out now what had been the
fascination for Douglas—all this talk
about flying getting into your blood.
Flying had taken Douglas into the sea,
with a burning plane and his bright new
medal.
THEY gave him a farewell party at
Chandron.
“Can I sit up. Mother?” begged little
Christine, her true Nordic-blue eyes be-
seechingly on Flora’s face. Her mother
was setting out dishes on a long trestle-
table rigged up in the cleaned barn. The
harness, maize and machinery had been
cleared away and the walls hung with
festoons of frangipani and hibiscus.
Below, draught-horses stamped great
hooves and noisily cracked corn with
strong yellow teeth.
“No. Of course not. It makes it so
awkward, John’s lot being at loggerheads,
with Biddy. I’ll just have to make sure
I don’t put them near each other . . .
let me see, there are four of John’s
family—um”
“But I want to. Uncle Leo said Granpa
was going home to die. The Chinese do
that. Miss Armster said elephants have
a special, secret dying place. Is Granpa
going to die in a secret place? Will he
feel glad, going to it, and knowing there
will be all the dead Danes there?”
Flora laughed. Death on Chandron
was no terrifying mystery. They had all
been brought up to regard it as naturally
as they did birth, to be got over as easily
as possible, with as little inconvenience
to others as possible,
“Well, he’s talked of
returning all these
years and now he’s
made the effort at last
I can’t see him coming
back here to die. He’ll
never make the journey
a second time.”
Christine could see
her Uncle Leo and the
o 1 d man leaning
against the German
wagon that had stood under the Moreton
Bay fig-tree ever since she could re-
member. She went down, standing
against Christian’s leg, not making her
presence felt, listening.
“See that Wally keeps out of serious
trouble, my boy.” Christian was smok-
ing and gazing over the river flat where
young spears of corn were green lines
on a map of red soil. On to the blue
hills over which he and a girl bride had
rumbled in a German wagon.
Leo nodded. He had taken over the
reins of the property a long time ago.
Now the family’s spiritual welfare was
in his keeping as well. Granpa began to
ruminate. Impatiently Christine tugged
at his arm. She adored Uncle Wally, but
his influence was negligible. These were
the two powers.
“Mother won’t let me go to the party.
And I’m eight now. Grandpa.”
“Well, well.” He looked down at her
indulgently. She pushed her point.
“Mother hasn’t any imagination,”
Both men laughed. All too often had
the old man brushed aside Flora’s im-
patience with just those words. Leo
swept her up into his arms.
“Odd, isn’t it. Dad, that this imp
should be so like you? When Flora
missed, I mean.”
The old man knocked out his pipe.
“Flora served her purpose. And if you
don’t want a sermon you’d better let me
get that sleep.”
He walked away, stooping slightly and
leaning rather more than was evident on
the short length of plum he had polished
for a cane. Leo took Christine back to-
wards the barn, carrying her upon his
shoulders.
“Why doesn’t Grandpa want to die
here and lie beside Granma? She has a
very pretty comer of Top Paddock. And
Uncle Steve’s there and Auntie Lou’s
twins. Was it true they were buried in
the box Grandpa’s shoes came in by the
mail-order?”
“Well, they were so small. Premature,
not really worth a whole coffin.”
“I’d like to go into Top Paddock when
I die.”
Leo sighed. “But you’re an Australian.
So was your Granma, The old bloke’s
a Dane by birth, and that makes a hell
of a difference when you pass seventy.”
“Still, I should think he’d want to stay
by Granma. They were such good
mates.”
“He loved Denmark before he loved
her.” Leo spoke with finality. He was
old enough to remember that his parents’
life together had not been all harmony.
He could recall loneliness in his mother’s
eyes ; she was city-born and never had
gained an affinity with the earth her hus-
band loved. “Come on, now. We’ll get
you invited while Flora’s too busy for
argument.”
She buried her face delightedly in his
thick hair. “I love you. I love Uncle
Leo.. .Uncle Leo.”
THE party lived up to all Christine’s
expectations. She adored family
gatherings, her keen eyes missing noth-
ing of under-the-surface currents. Nor
did the most oblique reference to old
scandal or new romance escape her.
Sometimes she nudged old Christian and
they chuckled together.
He sat at the head of the table look-
ing round him with an expression of awe
in his swimming eyes. They were a fine
lot, he thought, and growing so quickly
he could no longer recognise them as in-
dividuals. Not saints, thank God. But
good Australians. With something of
their country’s hard arrogance in the set
of their heads and the swing of their
steps....
His blurred vision rested last on the
intensely-interested face of little Christine.
She was fairer ir> coloring than any of
the others. The delicacy of her skin re-
mained unaltered though she loved to
ride hatless in the hot sunshine or dry,
cold winds. She was watching and listen-
ing with every nerve in her body; ab-
sorbing impressions, storing memories
that would one day be brought into light
for the benefit of another generation. So
had he recreated for her the life of a
boy on a Danish farm. So soon came
old age. It was oyer so quickly,
“Fill Dad’s glass,” shouted
Leo above the din. “Wally,
fill the cups for the King.”
Flora’s hand hawked out
and caught Christine’s just as
the smaller one had closed
purposefully on the neck of a
wine-bottle. Their glances
crossed. Flora poured
dark sarsaparilla into her
daughter’s glass.
For the King. For Granma
For Denmark. For Australia.
For Granpa. Fill ’em up
again. For Granpa. For
Granpa.
SO Christian wound up his years of
activity on Chandron. With Leo at
the wheel of the big shabby sedan, and an
impressive new wardrobe stacked into the
back seat, he moved out of the orbit of
their existence.
Leo returned alone to Chandron, and
soon after his arrival came the first tele-
gram. Christian had left Australia.
There was nothing to travelling by plane.
Christine must watch her new mare. She
was not to be trusted at the jump.
Cables followed. And later came letters.
Then at last they knew he had reached
his native town, had been lionised as the
emigrant who made good.
The womenfolk he had left behind cried
a little and laughed a lot, because the
old man’s joy ran through his letters, in-
coherently. And his menfolk, looking at
their timbered paddocks and fertile culti-
vation, thought they knew what was in
the old man’s heart when he stood again
on the soil of his birth.
One more letter came out of Denmark.
The writing of it wavering a little, and the
lines running into each other, because
Christian’s eyesight was a whole year
worse. He had come at last to his father’s
house, in the hidden valley where snow
lay all the summer long. Farming, he
wrote, had become a hard and bitter busi-
ness there. The brother who lived on in
the old home was changed. War had
altered everything. His brother, too, had
lost a son in that war. Died, marching
a starvation march over the Alps, It was
queer, Douglas being shot down by Japs
into a tropical sea, and this other lad
dying on the other side of the world.
For the same, cause. How wide the
branches of a family-tree could Spread
when the roots went deep! The apples
were fine this year, and Danish butter
had to be tasted to be believed.
He remained their affec. father and
g.f., Christian Jorgensen.
After this letter followed silence.
Weeks of silence, then months. Flora
cabled the uncle she had never seen, and
learned of Christian’s illness. Nothing
serious. A slight chill. Letter following.
But the letter was months in arriving.
Few Danes in that part knew English,
and it was hard to get an interpreter.
Christian was in hospital on the border
undergoing a new ray treatment. No
word had been received from him for
some time.
Weeks passed. When no further news
came across the ocean Christian’s family
dreaded, yet longed for, word that would
explain the long silence. It did not come.
CHRISTINE was playing near the dam,
a forbidden occupation, but one very
dear to her. Here the clay was soft and
white, ideal for modelling. Her fat hands
patted a lump of clay, while she chanted
a song composed of oaths and half-
remembered fragments of poetry. Her
head was bare, her cheeks streaked with
dried clay.
“Well, Christine?”
She glanced up and met her grand-
father’s eyes. A slow, delighted smile lit
her face. “Hullo, Granpa.”
He was elegantly tailored, leaning on a
gold-headed cane, smiling his gratifica-
tion. “Surprised?” .
“No.” She peered past him curiously,
at the big dusty taxi purring houseward
to deliver luggage. “Mostly they thought
you were dead. But I didn’t. I knew
you’d come home to Chandron. There s
a place for you in Top Paddock with
Granma and the twins, and all the other
Jorgensens that will die,” She laughed
aloud. “Old Mrs. O’Donohue said your
ghost would come back, God rest his soul,
if they buried you in foreign parts.
Christian removed his shoes, sitting on
a grassy bank. His feet were burning.
In the soft clay, cool damp scrolls oozed
through his toes. They were old teet,
with twisted toes and nails that needed
trimming. Once they had been har ,
calloused from following the plough
Now they were soft and white. He lute
them out, but the impress remained in
the clay. Like moulds.
Christine, with a warning shout, gave a
leap and landed in the exact spot where
Christian had stood. Her fee
planted firmly in the imprint ox ms.
“Look, Granpa. I’m standing m your
shoes,” she called, laughing. , ,
Christian nodded, smiling-itwassoo.
She stood in his shoes. In the bright s, .


Querrilla
By GEOFF BINGHAM
THE tall sergeant, Ray, was as dreamy
in his eyes as the color of the sky.
“You’d swear there was never
going to be a war,” he said,
Tony, the youngest, was almost wistful.
“No war, Ray? My oath there’ll be a
war.”
“They’ll come any time now, and good
luck if they do.” This time it was Terry,
the number-one on the gun. Terry wasn’t
wishing the enemy good luck, but he
always had that feeling that the enemy
needed luck, especially''when it came to
fighting the Australian ; Terry believed
that there was no fighter in the world like
the Australian ; except, perhaps, the Scot.
nr he section drowsed because it was
1 good to drowse. The sky in this place
was never completely unclouded, but to-
day it was almost clear, blue swerving
away from their eyes, a holiday blue, and
reflected in the sea which washed around
the coast, skimming the slim strip of rich
yellow' sand, a tiger-stripe of color.
“And a helluva chance we’ll have here,
any of us,” Ray said discouragingly,
although he knew it a sergeant’s duty to
be the opposite. The habit of grumbling
did not leave you with stripes. “You
won’t find the brasshats coming out here
as they did in the exercises,” he said.
“Don’t want them,” said Tony sud-
denly, excitedly. “They’d mess every-
thing up. It’s going to.be good here by
ourselves.”
Terry laughed in a way which made
Tony feel angry, if not more sure of him-
self. Terry was powerfully built, but
Tony was small and dark, thin nearly to
wiry, always filled with an energy which
never found full outlet but flowed in
gushes like a badly-timed pump. Terry
was always sure, as though that were the
duty of a number-one bren-gunner, but
that did not serve to pacify the small
soldier.
“Look,” he said, and he pointed down
the coast to Endau, that quiet village at
the end of the neck of land. “Lft-ak at
Endau now. Wouldn’t you like \ j£fce
raiding it?” he asked. “Wouldn’t it be
better to attack it than be defending?”
‘This isn’t a game, Tony,” the sergeant
told him. “It’ll be tough when it starts,
not like the books you read.”
Tony shut up after that, but the thought
had taken possession of him. He wanted
to sweep down on the village, to make the
encounter, not to be caught with his back
to the wall, no matter how powerful the
wall. In a way he could not believe the
small Japs could do anything, that they
might was a picture which taunted him —
the Japanese sweeping down upon the
village,
j_J E kept thinking about it, even when
1 * the boys flicked a pack of cards and
began poker. He was able to lie, his body
pressed against the rotting softness of the
damp jungle. He was thinking'it would
be better to be on a hill, somewhere, and
the village, although not necessarily
Endau, in the heart and bowl of a’valley.
Then it would be surprised, that glorious
emotion of sweeping, a gull on the wing,
an eagle poised and swooping. Not too
easy, either, the taking of the village,
whilst you pressed in with your guns
ratting, rat-tat-tatting. Ray and Terry
had tried their gun across the river and
the fugitive natives —those refusing
evacuation—had fled shrieking through
the swamps. In such a way, wete a
village attacked, the inhabitants would
fly.
Something of the Cossack might have
been in his veins, something of the old
plunderers, although he was only just
large enough for an Australian regula-
tion soldier, let alone a full-blooded
Cossack.
Before the game of poker finished the
bombers came. It was the first time they
had appeared. Ray showed plenty of
interest. Terry tried not to, but his eyes
betrayed him. Marshall stared at them,
his lips fearful, but he kept an eye to his
cards, too, although he might not have
seen what they were. Tony was almost in
an agony, staring at them, not afraid,
certainly not as scared as Marshall, but
knowing at last things must be happen-
ing.
Now the planes were the eagles, sweep-
ing, swooping and curving. Soon they
would rat-tatter, and when W 67 f /Yj\
they did the boys did not bother '/ •
shifting, but kept dealing hands, as ■
though to do otherwise was to lose face
and prestige. And the planes were disap-
pointing. Their staccato gunning, their
movements high up, had little beauty.
They were wheeling to find targets, and
when they did came the sickening lurches
of sound as the bombs dropped. Tony
felt the passion die in him.
DEFORE the planes departed, flying
' northwards, two more arrived from
that direction. They had the same dis-
passionate purpose as their departing
comrades. They tried to find the five
men, Ray and Marshall, Terry jxnd Tony
and Pip. Pip sat over his cards, his legs
crossed, his eyes sleepy, and he seemed
not to have heard the planes.
Tony watched them carefully, the four
others. He trembled when the planes
approached, from sheer excitement.
Marshall trembled too, but he was not
excited, this tall boy, tall almost as Ray,
sitting and dealing as though wondering
how he had grown to where he now was,
dealing cards amidst bombs.
“They’ll be coming down from
Quantan, see if they don’t,” Ray said
suddenly.
“That’s where they’re coming from,”
Tony said. “They’re coming from the
north.”
“The Army, I mean,” Ray said, and he
did not take his eyes from the cards. He
threw them down, and changed his hand.
“They’ll come through the scrub and
stuff, although these know-all civilians say
not.”
“That’s right,” said Tony eagerly.
“That’s the way they’d come. It’d be
harder, of course.” "
“Ah-h-h-ch,” said Terry, and he wasn’t
concerned with his cards much. “You
muck me up, Tony,” he said. “You talk,
talk, talk. We’ll see what’ll happen when
they come.”
He threw down his cards, restless now
as the others were restless. Tony thought
that perhaps they hadn’t been interested
in the game, but like him, were thinking.
He flattened himself instinctively as the
plane roared down upon them, but the
bombs dropped thirty yards away,
although that was too close to be good,
especially their first time under bombing.
Going back to their section-post they
could see Endau, absurdly quiet, fronting
the sandy roads, half-hidden by palms.
Tony thought sadly that it was empty
now, or nearly, anyway, the soldiers alone
occupying any of it. He thought it a
pity, too, next day and the days after-
wards, that the planes should smash
it so. He should smash it so,
leaving few houses, whilst at night it
was a village without lights, no village
at all but trees only, and they a tumbled
mass in the perpetual half-light of the
Malayan night.
RAY was right about them coming
down from Quantan. They were seen
on the other side of the river. The men
on the gunboat saw them, but the Nip-
ponese had not fired or shown fight.
Later the gunboat reported their being
seen in greater numbers, massing prob-
ably, and so sections went across the
river, but the five had to remain at their
section-post.
Pip was given a tommy-gun. He
showed it to Tony, sideways, with a sort
of cunning secrecy as though he were a
tipster at the races, that sort of quiet cun-
ning. He spoke out of the side of his
mouth. “This’ll touch ’em up 1 , see?
This’ll give ’em what for, see?”
Again Tony was excited, and wistfully
envious. Here was a man independent
of Terry and the Bren. Terry always
carrying a Bren as though it needed Terry
to carry it, his chin squared and stuck
out, as though, too, it needed that. Now
with a tommy-gun it would be different;
and Tony dreamed, and wished Pip would
let him have it, but Pip for once was
surprisingly attached to something.
They were all different, in a way, wait-
ing for something, or the thing, to happen.
One day, they knew, they would have to
evacuate down the road to Mersing.
Armoured cars and carriers would cover
their withdrawal, whilst the other troops
would evacuate down the river, drawing
the enemy after them into the certain
ambushing net of the Jemualuang valley.
Tony could see the high hill reaching into
the clouds, and the hidden soldiers wait-
ing .. .
N the other side of the river the Nips
kept piling up, silent, as though not
welcoming contact; but they were con-
tacted, and the first casualty was an Aus-
tralian soldier, slashed by a Nipponese
officer until two comrades cut him in half
with tommy-gunfire. Tony danced when
he heard that.
Then, when the heavy rain came, there
was a momentary respite from the
bombers. Tony felt, somehow, that those
planes destroyed his dreams. They came,
day after day, commencing at dawn, and
not ceasing until the evening.
They flew even into the dusk in their
relays, and just before the rain they com-
menced coming at night. There could be
no lights, no fires, and scarcely a
cigarette, never one out in the open.. The
rain, if it brought freedom from the
bombers, intensified discomfort, filling the
low-lying marshes and creeping across to
where they were entrenched on the coast.
After five days they had to get out of
the trenches. “We’d better ring head-
quarters about it,” Ray said.
Headquarters was out of communica-
tion. “You can go, Tony,” Terry said,
although it wasn’t his business.
Tony didn’t mind going, and it meant
he would see Endau again.
At Endau the fish were still stinking on
the roadway. Sun-dried once, they were
now soggy with the rain, and the flies
played over them, but there were no bare
native feet to patter on them, and the
wharf where the fishermen unloaded was
quiet as the grave. Only the bombers in
perpetual flight made a sound.
WHEN he reached headquarters the
sound of gunfire came from the sea,
and the hovering‘planes swooped on the
gunboat. The small craft fought furi-
ously, turning its heavy guns into ack-
acks. Tony left the worried major who
had ordered immediate evacuation, and
turned towards the coast.
Then he saw a man of his own battalion
running towards him, his arms raised in
alarm, and his voice also. “They’re com-
ing,” he shouted, and his eyes glared
wildly. “They’re coming.” He opened
his arms to signify better. “Millions of
them! ” he shouted, and he ran past Tony.
“You’d better come with me,” he
screamed. “We have to evacuate to the
river.”
Instructions had been to evacuate to-
wards the river to a place called Halting
Bungalow. But there were Terry and
Ray, Marshall and Pip. He would have
to tell them. The infantryman was shout-
ing frenziedly to him to come back.
“I’ve got cobbers over at the coast,”,
Tony told him.
“They’ve been told,” the soldier shouted
urgently. For a moment Tony was
tempted to believe him, but then he knew
it could not be so. This man had told
no one especially. He was thinking about
his skin and about the landing hordes.
He unslung his rifle and slipped a round
into the breech. He held the weapon in
his hands and moved quietly through the
scrub and lalang. Hfc came on to the
water, and it rose above his boots, soaked
down into them, rose above his knees.
There was a stillness across the swamps
and the stillness might have concealed an
enemy. Perhaps not, too. He gripped
the rifle, held it a little high as the water
rose up his thighs.
'T’ERRY and Pip, Ray and Marshall had
1 been told-all right. They were gone
when he reached the camp, and they had
moved quickly, too, for the signal equip-
ment was smashed as though they had
been unable to take it. Tony had a
moment of wishfully thinking Pip might
have left his tommy-gun. He coveted
Pip’s tommy-gun as he coveted a raid
upon some village,
But Pip had forgotten something, a
bandolier of tommy-gun ammo, and this
Tony slung as he left. Returning over
the swamp was really creepy because it
was deadly quiet with only the far-away
gunfire as a background. Here the enemy
might be hidden, but as he toiled through
the water he saw no sign of them, and
when he reached Endau it also was’
deserted,
Now, however, he heard the gunfire
quite close, and realised with a strange
inrush of feeling that it was Nipponese
machine-gunfire, the peculiar rising and
falling foreign to the guns he knew so
well. He realised, then, that the force had
left or was leaving. When the sound of
gunfire finally receded, downstream pro-
abl Y> then he wanted'to laugh, standing
th ,f e as he was, one a one in a deserted
village. After a time he decided it was
no laughing matter and that he had better
make towards the river. He never reached
tne nver.
There was a crying and a shouting, a
solm( j n { : gunfire, and a sharper, more
brittle sound. When the Nipponese came
through the scrub and lalang toward the
kampong, they were laughing, thrusting
U p their arms and shouting “Banzai!
Banzai!” ridiculously like children at
play, waving their flags, boisterously
happy. There was also that about them
which didi not strike Tony as childish. It
was not terfor he knew as he watched
them approach. He had the queer feel-
j ng that he might have to die, and he did
no t wish this, although also he did not
fear it. Then the situation seemed comical
and untrue as though suddenly thrust
unon him and therefore unreal, the
evacuation, the incoming of the Nip-
ponese, and he, Tony, left standing alone
in the kampong awaiting their coming.
He knew the jungle well, the palm
groves, the pardi and the half-jungle of
scrub and lalang. He knew how to get
through to Mersing without going by the
river, although he guessed the road
bridges would be blown by now. Then
there was the bridge over the reservoir,
which also would be blown, and to escape
he would have to circle through the
jungle, far upriver. He moved away
quickly into the jungle, bent on avoiding
the oncoming enemy.
T_f E had not gone far when darkness
1 1 fell, suddenly as always on the
peninsula. It halted him somehow, as
though for the first time he was really
thinking, and a faint line of fear which
had been running through his being was
suddenly erased. He could see Terry
laughing, and hear his scornful “Ah-h-h”
as though every blessed thing he, Tony,
said was infantile. Well, they had gone
without him, leaving only the bandolier of
ammo. What he wanted was Pip’s
tommy-gun. *
It was after that thought that he knew
he had to go back to Endau. There might
be a tommy-gun there, in the Japanese
clubhouse, perhaps, where there had been
a case of primed grenades. No one had
wanted that case of bombs, or even to go
near the clubhouse, especially when the
bombers were about,
{Continued on page 29.)


Get Winter Warmth with , . .
MORRIS “CENTRAL” RADIATORS
Economical, Mobile, Central Heating
The Morris All-British “Central” Radiators give the comfort of
“Central Heating” without heavy installation costs. They’re mobile,
too. Being water filled, they do not draw any moisture from the
air. For the town and city, there is the electric Morris “Radfire,
which can be used as a radiator or direct ray fire or both. This
radiator is illustrated at right. Shown at left is the oil radiator,
ideal for heating houses in the country where no electricity or gas
is laid on, and is operated by an “ODOURLESS” precision blue
flame kerosene burner.
5
*5
All Morris “Central” K«di-
ators are mounted on ball-
bearing: castors and can be
wheeled from room to room
with ease and perfect safety.
Manufacturers and Patentees—Morris Heating Appliances Ltd.,
5 Netherton Groye, London, S.W. 10.
Trade inquiries invited. Stocks available in Sydney or Melbourne.
Sole Agent : —
L. D. BESTON
387 KENT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone: M 3536. Cables: “Beston,” Sydney.
Melbourne Office: 3rd Floor, 34 Queen Street. ’Phone: MB 1351.
f It's the
iutmm
\ Favourite
fin the ALL
SQUARE
BOTTLE i
7SSS-.
Us
fa i -
m
am
W 0
s
G6I2S
GILBEY’S, the Gin of
International fame—in the
internationally famous
SQUARE bottle.
Gilbey’s square bottle is
recognized throughout the
world as the distinctive con-
tainer of the world’s most
distinctive Gin.
Gilbeys
GIN |
The OLD formula in the NEW bottle.
SUNDRY SHOWS
"THE RED SHOES."
It is rather a pity that the
ballet from which this over-long
film at Sydney Embassy takes
its name is practically drowned
in a bath of technicolor and
camera trickery. The ballet,
from a Hans Andersen tale
about a girl who becomes ob-
sessed with a pair of dancing
shoes which, after she puts them
on, compel her to dance herself
to death, looks as though it
could be a remarkably good
one. The music, by Brian Eas-
dale and recorded by Beecham
and the Royal Philharmonic,
and the choreography, by
Robert Helpmann, are nicely
matched, and, while the camera
lets them, Moira Shearer, Mas-
sine and Helpmann dance
superbly.
In the ballet sequences, how-
ever, the camera is given to
streaking off on explorations of
weird and wonderful scenery;
to depicting Miss Shearer drift-
ing unsupported through space
or performing other physical
improbabilities; and to several
kinds of photographic hocus-
pocus. Whether all that is meant
to represent audience-reaction to
Miss Shearer’s dancing, her own
personal sensations or the
choreographer’s ideas is not
made altogether clear ; but while
it may fascinate students of Dis-
ney, Dante or aeronautics, it is
not altogether satisfying for
those who like ballet.
The miracle of any work of
art does not rest solely in what
is expressed, but in what is ex-
pressed within the limits of its
particular form. That is why,
as an artistic achievement, “Les
Sylphides,” with Fokine, Chopin
and a stage full of dancers all
contributing, is a long way be-
hind a single line of Shelley; or
why poetry and painting hold
their exalted places among the
arts.
To take an example from the
bottom of the scale, in one of
the ballet sequences in the film
at the Embassy the girl is shown
dancing in front of the cobbler’s
window admiring the red shoes.
By some camera trickery she
actually sees her own image
wearing the shoes and dancing
in the window, a device ap-
parently intended to aid the
dancer in conveying to the audi-
ence her longing for the fancy
footwear. Any competent
dancer, including Miss Shearer,
could express her emotions quite
plainly by dancing and acting,
and, from an artistic viewpoint,
her achievement would be so
much the greater and so much
more satisfying. Similarly, the
whole ballet would be much
better presented “straight” and
without the dubious assistance
of a camera lurching off in in-
toxicated contemplation of a
technicolor extravaganza.
The foregoing criticism is
directed at the film only on the
score that it purports to present
ballet, or “a remarkable step for-
ward in a new art —choreo-
photography.” Actually, only a
fraction of its running-time of
over two hours is taken up with
dancing ; the rest of it is a senti-
mental concoction running
parallel to the story of the bal-
let. Miss Shearer plays a young
dancer who joins the Ballet Ler-
montov and shows promise of
becoming a world-famous dan-
cer ; she falls for the company’s
composer (Marius Goring) and
they are married; but, unfor-
tunately for both, M. Lermon-
tov holds that other emotions
don’t mix with ballet and fires
the pair of them.
Eventually cornered to choose
between ballet and her husband,
Miss Shearer bursts into tearful
hysterics and selects the ballet;
then, a few minutes after her
husband has departed to catch a
train, changes her mind, runs
after him and falls under the
train, an event which brings M.
Lermontov to the front of the
curtain announcing, with half-
strangled emotion, that “We will
duns ‘Da Red Shuss’ wit’out ’er,
because she vould ’ave vished
it” —or with an accent to that
effect.
In fairness to Anton Wal-
brook, who plays M. Lermon-
tov, it should be recorded that
his accent is remarkably well-
simulated and that his perform-
ance as a whole is the most con-
vincing in the film. Aiding him
immensely are Esmond Knight
as his conductor, Albert Basser-
man as his designer, Robert
Helpmann as his leading dancer
and, superbly as the maitre-de-
ballet and as the Shoemaker in
“The Red Shoes” ballet,
Massine.
"The Pearls of the
Crown."
In this French film at Mel-
bourne Australia, Sacha Guitry
spreads over an enormous canvas
the endeavors of a Frenchman,
an Englishman and an Italian to
trace the history of four pearls
which hang from the arches of
the British Royal Crown. Of
unusual shape, there were origi-
nally seven, which Pope Clement
VII, on his deathbed, presented
to Catherine de Medici when she
married Henry of Orleans, son
of Francis the First of France.
The action jumps to England,
where Henry VIII is steering his
way through his various amours,
beheading his wives and protest-
ing so much that he becomes the
first Protestant of Europe.
Holbein, Clouet and Titian paint
royal portraits, Titian’s example
being something that master
could never have painted. The
necklace is passed on to Mary
Queen of Scots when she be-
comes Queen of France, and
when she becomes a widow
Queen Elizabeth pops in, chops
her head off and secures the
baubles after.a fracas between
thieves in a tavern. Finally
Queen Victoria gets them.
Three of the pearls are
separated from the others, and
the quest for them takes the
action to China and Abyssinia
where the beautiful Arletty, as
the Queen of that State, with a
live python round her neck,
seduces the investigator in a
scene of barbaric splendor. The
search ends on the liner Nor-
mandie in 1937, but not before
Napoleon I, the Du Barry, and a
dozen other historical figures
have made a brief appearance.
The gorgeous architecture of
the Renaissance makes a sharp
contrast with the meagre modern
settings, and the magnificence of
the clothes is overwhelming.
Four languages are spoken—
English, French, Italian and
Abyssinian. The fault of the
film is that it is more of a docu-
mentary than a drama, but the
richness of its details compen-
sates for the slight character of
the story.
R.A.S., Sydney.
The N. S. Wales Royal Agri-
cultural Show picked a winner as
far as the weather was concerned
—the sun shone for most of the
time, a performance which was
better than last year’s, but
slightly below the record for the
year before* Approximately
twice as many cars as there are
in Australia parked outside the
ground—about 9786 above last
year’s figure, but less than the
record established in 1946. Five
times the population of Australia
passed through the gates—less
than the attendance in 1943,
but better than the record of
1935, which had previously
only been beaten by the record
attendance in 1927. Or some-
thing like that.
Outside people fought to get
in; inside they fought to get
food, -seats, sight of the tele-
vision display, or, later, outside.
Outside two parties even fought
over the legal right to retail,
inside, articles poetically known
as “Dagwood Dogs” and scien-
tifically described as a frank-
furter speared by a stick, fried
in batter and wrapped in paper.
Inside people went to watch
the dogs barking or smell the
pigs smelling, or even to get
bitten by Shetland ponies.
Everything for the home was on
display—furniture, refrigerators,
wireless-sets, flowers, food, and
even a complete burglar’s equip-
ment in the police exhibition,
which also featured a terrifying
array of pistols, knuckle-dusters,
bludgeons, blackjacks and other
skull-cracking equipment.
Down Spangle Alley you
could knock ’em, dodge ’em or
fight ’em; you could ride the
ferris-wheel or the merry-go-
round, or take a trip through
the Tunnel of Fun or the Tunnel
of Fear, both of which were
decorated, in their darkness, with
skulls, skeletons, bloodstained
assassins, disembodied heads
and other pleasant items to de-
light six-year-olds.
In the cattle pavilions cows
placidly chewed their food, their
cuds, or just chewed, unper-
turbed by a wild-eyed artist who
was trying, with a note of des-
peration, to convince a fat cow
and a fat farmer that their pros--
perous fatness was too literal,
dishonest and an offence against
art. When last observed the
artist was poised in rapturous
admiration of the sideshow fea-
turing the Human Skeleton and
other natural errors.
Finally, having circled the
ground and seen the tractors,
cars, lorries, launches, jet-en-
gines and buses, the log-chop,
the grand parade and other dis-
plays of beef and brawn you
could call at the tent for lost
children to pick up the young-
sters, whom, if you were wise,
you lost when you first went in,
pacify them with a couple of
quid’s worth of sample-bags, two
ice-creams, a balloon and wind-
mill on a stick with which to
poke out the tram-conductor’s
eye on the way home.
Artist from Latvia.
Ludmilla Meilerts, a Latvian
migrant, who is serving her two
years for Mr. Calwell under the
immigration compact as a nurse
at the Heidelberg Hospital, evi-
dently had some artistic distinc-
tion in her own land before she
came here.
The prints and reproductions
of her paintings have been pub-
lished in editions of 15,000 and
are available at her show at
George’s Gallery, Melbourne,
c . uL- 0
She brings the same eye to her
Australian pictures, all painted
round Heidelberg. She is ob-
viously endeavoring to paint her
sensations and not her mtrospec-
tions, and some of her land-
scapes, like “Summer” and
“Spring in Stuttgart,” are fresh
and vital-looking,
The tendency to strike a high
note, however, gives an effect of
monotony to an exhibition. She
needs more tone to give body to
her impressions. There is plenty
of color, but it doesn’t always
sing. A crowd of peasants doing
something in a field crossed by
the sun’s rays is lively.
Musica Viva.
In its latest Sydney offering
Musica Viva temporarily turned
aside from the Beethoven
quartet cycle to air some cham-
ber works that are played less
often than they could be.
One such was the Schumann
Piano Quartet in E Flat. Over-
shadowed in popularity by the
famous quintet in the same key,
the quartet remains, nevertheless,
its equal in structural strength,
in the bitter-sweetness of the
string writing. The scherzo took
on rather too-sombre colorings
under the playing of pianist
Maureen Jones, ’cellist Theo
Salzmann, violinist Edward
Cockman and violist Robert
Pikler, who forsook his usual
fiddle for the alto instrument in
place of Richard Goldner, There
was, however, injected into the
Andante a strong charge of
passion.
In the Beethoven ’Cello
Sonata, Op. 5, No. 2, Theo
Salzmann joyfully seized the
chance to indulge his flair for
cantabile playing. The concert
ended on the happy note of the
Mozart Divertimento in E Flat,
The players gave the impression
that they themselves were caught
up in the general lighthearted-
ness and gaiety.
Current Talkies.
“Easter Parade” (Sydney St.
James): An entertaining
M.-G.-M. musicomedy which
demonstrates, among other
things, that Fred Astaire is still
the old master of all the song-
an’-dance merchants —most of
whom are only half his age. He’s
more nimble, graceful and in-
gratiating than any of them, and
handles light-comedy as easily
as he manages his intricate dan6e
routines. The film has to do
with a dancer whose partner
deserts him, and who undertakes
to find another from anywhere
and make her just as good within
12 months. Judy Garland is the
other one and partners Astaire
very well.
* * * *
“The Snake Pit” (Sydney
Mayfair): Heavy histrionics
from Olivia de Havilland as the
inmate of a mental asylum. The
psychiatrist fossicks around in
her past until he digs out lack of
maternal affection, a broken doll,
the death of her father and, much
later, the death of her fiance in
a car accident. Relieved of the
weight, the patient recovers her
sanity and returns to her
husband (Mark Stevens). Liber-
ally strung with asylum scenes
and insane women, the film
should have an irresistible appeal
for those who are entertained by
such things.
(“Sundry Shows” continued on
page 32.)


FOR SMOOTH RIDING
«l
UPtc
'aif-ne/e
/00Z ... €6a/n/>/b/js ef/6e faaaf
A PRODUCT OP THE OLYMPIC TYRE &• RUBBER CO. LTD,
0T22.16.-
ft
£
wts.
m
&
n
v;>
.:<y
&
w."i
!//•
S?‘.
Face Facts
V|l»Tl-* wl
It is a fact that the average
Australian male grows
approximately 25,000 hairs
on his face. To obtain a
satisfactory shave, each of
these thousands of individual
hairs must be cut closely and cleanly
every day . . . Wise men know that the daily shave can
be accomplished with speed, ease and comfort by using
a Blue Gillette Blade in a Gillette Razor.
s&sp.
V
'Good Mornings' begin with Gillette
BLUE
Gillette
BLADES
TEN FOR 37-
FIVE FOR 1/6
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
stream from the Magpie mare Idle
Words. Bernbrook is an
and they are comparatively rare-yof
a really high-priced yearling justifying
his cost; he fetched 3500 guineas at
the 1947 Sydney sales. Unfortunately,
Bernbrook will not make amends for
the loss of Shannon to America; he
too, it is reported, is to hit the dollar
trail after a visit to the forthcoming
Doomben Ten Thousand meeting.
Bernbrook’s owner, Romano, also
took to America Bernborough, the
finest thoroughbred seen here in
many years.
Total prizemoney, apart from
sweepstakes, distributed on Saturday
was £19,000. The Doncaster carried
£6OOO. Other principal races were the
Sires’ Produce Stakes (£5000), St.
Leger (£3000) and The Autumn
Stakes (£2000).
With the greater part of them no
doubt tried by now, the present two-
year-olds seem a somewhat poor
crop—certainly a far cry from last
season’s outstanding bunch. A total
of 87 sires were nominated for the
rich Produce Stakes and 11 were rep-
resented in the race, which was won
soundly by Field Boy, ridden by
Briscoe, to beat the favorite Lady
Pirouette and Crag Son. Field Boy
is a powerful-looking chestnut, very
closely resembling his sire, Nuffield,
who won the Sires’ Produce in 1938
and went on to take the two Derbies.
Judging by what has been seen of
his fellow-juveniles, Field Boy might
be able to do likewise —certainly he
is by a mile the best yet produced
by Nuffield.
Without in any way suggesting that
a race with such traditions as has
the St. Leger should be abandoned,
one is inclined to wonder if the
numerical strength of the fields which
usually contest the race justify the
lavish prizemoney. There were four
runners on Saturday. Only once in
the past eighty years has the number
of starters reached double figures,
and then only just-r—Lady Valais beat
nine others in 1924. Expected to
provide another good tussle betwixt
Carbon Copy and Comic Court,
Saturday’s race was a disappointment.
Breasley, on Carbon Copy, appeared
to win the race six furlongs from
home when, with Comic Court drop-
ping back a trifle, he sent Carbon
Copy surging up past the early pace-
maker Bubille to steal a lead of
five or six lengths. Caught napping,
Purtell on Comic Court then gave
chase, and things looked likely to
justify expectations when he ranged
up to Carbon Copy entering the
straight, but the effort had been too
At dose quarters, armed with a
quantity of sharp, board-stiff, lac-
quered feather, the female of the
species can give a deadly account of
herself. Principal reaction to an
afternoon of heel-and-elbow work
through the crowd of 81,700 at Rand-
wick on Saturday was an earnest
prayer that the current mode of
millinery adorned with everything
from solitary yard-long quids to
entire chooks may be even more
short-lived than most feminine fads.
Apart from the normal discomforts
of a major meeting at Randwick, the
weather on Saturday was perfect and
the racing splendid. Adding to the
excellent record of three-year-olds
this season, the warm favorite Bern-
brook (N. Sellwood) won the Don-
caster by one and a quarter lengths
from Vagabond; two lengths further
back a bunch of four or five horses
disputed third place, the camera
giving it to the four-year-old Mortar.
Starter Gaxieu got the Doncaster
field away perfectly and the race was
exceptionally cleanly run with, most
unusually, not one hard-luck tale to
be spun afterwards, apart from the
obvious misfortune which befell
Mentmore, breaking a leg just as he
commenced a threatening run at the
Leger. By something of a miracle,
Mentmore did not fall; he might well,
have brought down half the field.
Bembrook was immediately behind
him at the time, but, pulled to the
outside, avoided trouble and had the
race in his keeping when he went
clear to the front at the distance.
Finishing late, Vagabond made a lot
of ground on the winner in the last
half-furlong, but had no chance of
running him down. Mortar ran an
excellent race to bag third money,
though connections may have cause
to regret-having aimed so high when
their horse is next entered for a lesser
handicap. Filipino found the handi-
capper’s harsh treatment too great an
obstacle; after being cut out at the
start he had little chance of making
up lost ground with a plaster of
9.10; he was closest at the finish,
about a length behind Mortar. An
impressive performance for future
reference was that of the three-year-
old filly lolanda.
• • • • •
Bembrook looked a picture before
the race—a credit to trainer Harry
Plant. Bred at Percy Miller’s Kia
Ora Stud, Bembrook is, of course, a
full-brother to Shannon, by Mid-
great. Hit with the whip, a tired
Comic Court veered right off the
course and very nearly crashed the
outside rail. Carbon Copy won by
four lengths, while five lengths further
back Bubille won a photo.-finish for
third money, Snowstream being the
other runner.
Carbpn Copy gives imported stallion
Helios his second A.J.C. St. Leger
winner—last year he was successfully
represented by Cronides. Helios,
who himself raced only twice, is a
son of the English Derby- and St.
Leger-winner Hyperion. Helios was
bred in England but his dam, Foxy
Gal, was bred in the U.S.A. and
both her parents were bred in France.
In front all the way, old Russia
(J. Thompson) fairly toyed with other
runners in the 12-furlongs Autumn
Stakes. Dark Marne challenged
"It was a mistake ever to pamper it with hand-feeding!"
gamely in the straight but was rio
match for the old fellow, who drew
away to win by two and a half
lengths. The New Zealander Bruce
finished third. In other events on
Saturday Persist (N. Sellwood) and
Grey Nurse fought out one of the
best finishes of the day to pass the
post in that order in the Princess
Handicap (7f.) for three-year-old
fillies; Rio Fe (A. Breasley), a
stablemate of the ill-fated Mentmore,
did well to win the Vaucluse Handi-
cap (7f.) under a stopper of 10.5;
and Firearm (N. McGrowdie) upset
the very heavily-backed Sir Raven in
the 10-furlongs [Jocal Handicap.
* * * *
At Flemington on Saturday punters
faced up to a particularly treacherous-
looking programme'and, for the most
part, emerged, from the fray sadder,
if little wiser.' Backers of favorites
didn’t take a trick.
Principal event was the £3OOO Vic-
toria Handicap, run over seven fur-
longs and giving connections of many
horses a chance to assess the chances
of a trip to Doomben proving worth
while. As in so many handicaps this
season it was a three-year-old that
showed them the way home, Ungar
running a rattling good race to down
Beau Gem gnd Ellerslie, another
three-year-old. Ridden by apprentice
D. Barclay in the absence of his
customary rider A. Breasley, Ungar
secured a nice run on the inside
entering the straight and won by a
neck; Ellerslie was only a half-neck
further back after striking not the
best of luck in the running. Since
the field included the winners of the
Newmarket (Reperio) and the Futurity
(St. Razzle) as well as other classy
sprinters, Ungar did well to win with
lib. over weight for age.
Evidently the 10-furlongs journey
of the Easter Handicap was con-
sidered too short for New Cashmere,
arid the Australian Cup-winner was
allowed to start at 15 to 1. Early
in the piece it was obvious that
nobody was particularly anxious for
the role of pacemaker, whereupon G.
Bougoure on New Cashmere gave
his mount its head. Royal Title, in
receipt of a stone in the weights, got
to within a half-head at the finish,
but New Cashmere had secured too
great a lead, Chatspa finished a
close third.
The sort of race on which book-
makers dote, the Juvenile Stakes was
restricted to two-year-olds which had
not run a place; it called for two
divisions with 27 starting in each.
Prince Ben (M. Fitzgerald) took the
first division, defeating Auburn and
Illingerry by half-head margins, while
the second division went to Front
Line. Dawn Air, a roan filly by
Crojick, ran a nice race to be beaten
a neck by Front Line.
Close finishes were much the order
of the day. El Regis (R. Hall) won
the Winton Hurdle by a half-neck
from Gordon Fox; Vrondi (W.
Smith) had only a half-head to spare
from Hoyle in the Westall Trial
Stakes; and Astor (R. Heather) won
the Hampton Highweight by a head
from Peter Blank.
* * * *
Sydney Cup Day at Randwick on
Monday opened in true handicapper’s
conditions, and the topweights
Achilles (J. Thompson) and San
Domenico (A. Ward) duly landed the
first two events, the Wentworth
Handicap and the C. W. Cropper
Handicap—San Domenico’s a superb
performance; lumping 9.7, leading
throughout, five lengths to spare at
the end; time, 1.11 for the “six.”
The rich Cup itself —in all, £lO,OOO,
plus sweepstakes and £5OO gold cup—
further proved the outstanding quality
of the present crop of three-year-olds,
Carbon Copy (Breasley) landing the
prize from Vagabond and Benvolo.
At Flemington on Monday
Paroxena (W. Carter) gave a grand
exhibition of fencing, carrying top
weight in front all the way in the
Kingswood Steeple. The Sandown
Cup showed a return for the Mel-
bourne encouragement of stayers, 23
facing up to the Im. 5f., three-year-
old Clement (R. Heather) just getting
up to snatch it from Miss Prim on
the post.
* * * *
The touring Australian tennis team
had mixed luck in the South African
championships, bagging all the doubles
titles but missing out in the singles.
Geoff Brown won the men’s with
T. Warhurst and the mixed with
Joyce Fitch. Mrs. Long and Miss
Fitch took the women’s doubles.
* * * *
The V.F.L. opened its season in
Melbourne on Easter Saturday with
four games, saving the Richmond-
Footscray and South Melbourne-
Carlton clashes for Easter Monday.
Essendon, Collingwood and Fitzroy
ran the rule over Hawthorn, North
Melbourne and St. Kilda, respectively,
but Melbourne crashed where so
many have fallen, against Geelong
at Geelong, the locals making it
21.19 to 12.11.
They tried the 16-aside Aussie
rules game in Sydney over Easter
and a first-class argument broke out.
One bright soul said it didn’t go far
enough and ought to be cut to 14,
but he is suspected of Rugby ten-
dencies. The idea is to reduce con-
gestion on the small Sydney grounds,
but the way they play it in Sydney
there’d be congestion on a 640-acre
farm.
* * * *
Manly, beaten 17-12 by Northern
Suburbs, walked off North Sydney
Oval, suddenly noticed that something
was missing, and went back to re-
trieve Barry, the full-back, lying
unconscious on the ground. Perhaps
he was stunned by the rush of the
rival morning newspapers to hand
out prizes to players. In the other
Union discussions Drummoyne, Gor-
don, Easts and University carried the
day, mostly by two-to-one majorities.
* * * *
Obviously carrying too much lard
to fight his best, Leo Heaney
was well beaten on points by George
Kapeen (9.12) at Leichhardt; the
difference in weights looked a good
deal more than was officially given.
Despite stopping one below the belt
in round six, and another even lower
in the eighth, Kapeen was always on
top, and Heaney in the later rounds
only stayed on his feet by consistent
claiming.
* * * *
Jack Read notes a couple of
visitors:
U.S. Press interviews indicate that
Gene Tunney and Maxie Rosen-
bloom liked this part of the world
when here a month or so back.
Tunney, bom in New York on May
25, 1898, began boxing while in
France with the U.S. Marines during
World War I, and retired as world
heavyweight champion after an 11-
round k.o. of New Zealander Tom
Heeney in 1928, Tunney took part
in 65 contests and lost only one —
a 15-rounds points decision to Harry
Greb in 1922, His two world heavy-
weight championships with Jack
Dempsey were outstanding; the first
at Philadelphia (September 23, 1926)
was the first world title match limited
to 10 rounds, and the second, at
Chicago a year later, yielded a record
gate of 2,658,000 dollars —Tunney’s
corner was 990,000 dollars.
The Chicago scrap also holds a
place in boxing annals as “The Long-
count Thatch.” Dempsey’s classic
left-hook dropped Tunney half-way
through the bout, but Dempsey did
not retire to a neutral comer and
the ref. refused to commence the
count till he had done so. Chicago
critics claimed that Tunney was down
for at least 15 seconds before rising
at “nine.”
Tunney made more than a million
dollars from boxing and has long
been held up as a shining example
of one of the rare ones who made
it and kept it—today a highly pros-
perous businessman. He has no
doubt been guided and inspired by
his wife, Miss Polly Lauder, a niece
of Andrew Carnegie and worth some
£7,000,000 in her own right!
Like Tunney, Maxie Rosenbloom
was bom in New York City—on
September 6, 1904. He won his first
fight (a three-round k.o. over Jack
Rivers) in 1923, and entered the ring
no fewer than 275 times before retiring
to become a restaurateur, night-club
entertainer and film player. Rosen-
bloom reigned as world light-heavy
champion from June 25, 1930—when
he outpointed Jimmy Slattery at
Buffalo (N.Y.) —until November 16,
1934, when Bob Olin beat him in
New York.


aer
■SZZ'
OPERATIONAL
DATA
SPECIFICATIONS—
Pressed steel welded
members 16"
wheels 7.50 x 16
6-ply tyres Taper
roller bearings
Longitudinal I"
hard-wood decking,
flush at rear, 15"
coaming. Deck—lo'
x 6'.
FEATURES Load
capacity 2\ tons—
Load measurements
yards—Quick re-
lease tipping catch
Loading height
under 3 feet Ad-
justable hitch
Tubular draw bar.
WEIGHS 7 cwr.
CARRIES 2i TONS!
FREIGHT G R AIH
A lLX_r
NO MANUAL OPERATIONS REQUIRED
Ruggedly engineered to carry
2\ tons of tipping material,
the Freighter McGrath “Titan”
tipper can be handled by one
man—it tips with reverse move-
ment of prime mover, returns
to level with forward movement.
Can be pulled by truck, utility
o’r tractor an ideal buy
for farmers, orchardists, small
contractors.
Semi-Trailers and Timber Jinkers also available, immediate
delivery .
jjnri
sis
I TRAILER SALES
i ’ t SERVICE PJILU*
TRAILER SALES & SERVICE "J:
140-154 Prince's Highway, St Peters.
Telephones: LA 2803, LA 2804
"HANDY HINTS
FOR THE FARM"
Price 1/- from Newsagents, or
1/21 posted from Bulletin Office,
252 George Street, Sydney.
EYE LOTION
For inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H.A.Rose & Co.Pty.Ltd.Kiii gSt.Sydn ey
$
'Woto
6
u N 0
CSa*
£
A
•N
w
iU
»
KV
A-
//<
M
\s&(
si
r\
r^"
V'S
//'"
9 M
o£© Jti
A/V
>',. s' '
(*
s- %
'ordk'S
V'" , - ?
w** v
Ji /S'
S' /-
SMjJMC' */1-. ~- '■ s>^-/.
TOOTH'S K.B. LAGER Brewed and bottled by Tooth & Co. Limited.
Makers of good beer since 1835.
SMOKERS
PIPE TOBACCOS THAT ARE
BLENDED TO GIVE
SATISFACTION TO ALL.
HOUSE OF MURPHY. A blend of
the highest grade of leaf to give a
cool smoke of satisfaction that men
prefer. 22/- per lb. Posted.
A.A.A. HILLTOP. A blend of
Australian, American and African.
20/- per lb. Posted.
WINSTON BEADY RUBBED
CIGARETTE TOBACCO. Greatly
improved by better blending of
mature leaf. 24/- per lb. Posted.
Special Quotes to Retailers for lots 101 b.
weight or over,
Write to: Cash Order Dept.,
Hillman Trading Co.,
Commercial Road, Brisbane.
Postage paid on Cash with order.
Postage extra on 0.0. D. Orders.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy copy of Part 2, Volume 1,
of the Western Australian Historical
Society’s- “Journal,” published about
1926.—4614.
To buy copy of The Specialist by
Chic Sale.—4615.
Englishman (28), interested in poli-
tics, travel, literature and art, would
like to exchange letters and magazines
with Bulletin readers. Reply direct
to Mr. Cyril Bracegirdle, 40 Blue Bell-
avenue, Moston-Iane, Moston, Man-
chester 10, England.
Words of verse “The World and I”
by “Kodak,” containing the lines: —•
The policeman on the corner stands and
waves a lordly fln.
He moves me on and keeps me good.
And will not let me sin.
—4616.
Small furnished flat, moderate
rental, or double-room with use of
kitchen and conveniences, North
Sydney or- adjoining districts, by
English married couple.—4617.
Information Sought.
Customs duties payable on and
tariff classifications of (1) a woollen
suit-length and (2) a man’s suit im-
ported from England? (3) In what
currency would the value for duty be
calculated ?
(1) Would be classifiable for tariff
purposes under Tariff Item 105(FX1)
and Customs duty at the rate of 6d.,
per square yard and 17+ per cent, ad
valorem would be payable. (2) Tariff
Item 110(A)(1)(a) would be applic-
able and Customs duty of 10s. plus
12+ per cent, ad valorem or 22+ per
cent, ad valorem, whichever is the
higher, would be charged. (3) Value
for duty would be calculated in Aus-
tralian currency and would be equal
to the actual money-price paid for
the goods by the importer or current
domestic value, whichever the greater,
f.o.b., at the port of shipment.
* * * *
Chemical constituents of rock-salt ?
Would the use of it be beneficial to
plant-life? .
Rock-salt is simply common salt,
or sodium chloride. It would be of
no benefit to nearly all plants, and
would be harmful if applied in large
quantities. However, one or two
vegetable crops, notably beetroot,
have been reported to benefit from
applications in America. The rate of
application was 5001b. per acre in a
high-rainfall region. Salt has been
traditionally used on mangolds and
beets on light soils in parts of Eng-
land, but it has been found there to
be injurious on heavy soil.
How to repair cracks in a tar-
asphalt pathway?
Thoroughly brush out the open
cracks, then paint the sides with a
bituminous emulsion or tar. Fill in
with a mixture of emulsion and
sand or tar and sand, and tamp. If
the cracks are too narrow for the
treatment, a top-dressing with emul-
sion and sand or tar and sand is
the only method. The cracking of
the path could be due to .movements
in the clay subsoil, particularly if
the tar asphalt was laid without a
foundation of ashes or sand.
,** * *
Particualrs of A.B.C. radio short-
story competition ?
The. A.B.C. announces two radio
short-story competitions. One is an
open contest with £5O as the first
prize, £2O as the second prize and
£lO as the third prize. The other is
a junior competition open to .persons
under 21 years of age. The first
prize is £2O, the second £l2 and the
thirds £B. Stories should ba written
essentially for broadcasting, and should
not exceed 1,800 words in length.
Entries will close at noon on May
20, 1949. Entry-forms are obtain-
able from the A.B.C. offices in all
capital cities.
*.* * «
How to rid a garden of (1) kikuyu
grass and (2) hoxthorn?
(1) Digging and more digging is
the only reliable way to control
kikuyu grass in gardens. Hormone
weedicides are useless and arsenicals,
coarse salt or sodium chlorate would
put the land out of order for at
least twelve months. (2) No sure
method of eradication of this pest,
except grubbing, is known. Arsenic
pentoxide is sometimes successful.
The stems should be cut through and
the tops swabbed freely immediately
after cutting. About 3-41bs. of
pentoxide per gallon is recommended.
However, results with poisons have
been very erratic; hormone weed-
killers are useless.
Brief Answers.
D.M.S.: Write N.S.W. Agricultural
Dept., Sydney, for free pamphlet
“Weeds in Sport Areas: Their Pre-
vention and Control” W.P.C.:
Mixture keeps well in cool climate,
but may form mould in a warm
place. Make up fairly small quantity
at one time. A few drops of oil of
cloves will ensure keeping, but oil
must be clear, light color or may
darken the gloss P.V.M.: Write
any of the following firms: Amplion,
Ltd., 36 Parramatta-road, and Craw-
ford Electrical Co., 3 Bond-street —
both Sydney—and K. L. Electrical
Co., Springvale-road, Springvale (Vic.).
....R.H.P.: Income derived from
sources outside Australia is only
exempt from tax where satisfactory
evidence is available to show that
tax has actually been levied on such
income in the country of its origin.
L.V.A.: The Endeavour Press
ceased publishing activities some time
before World War II H.D.G.:
Impossible to answer inquiry without
making a close inspection of the
place. Apart from the supposition
that the slate dampcourse has snapped
in one or several places, nothing
much can be determined without
seeing the building. Suggest you get
a competent builder to look after the
trouble.... R.McD.: Write Q’land
Agricultural Dept., Brisbane, t° r
pamphlet “Nut Grass Control’ .
J.L.: Write Marine Branch, Naviga-
tion and Lighthouse Services, Cus-
toms House, Circular Quay, Sydney.
H.D.T.: Write John Young, Art
Expert, 3 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
I.N.; Alexander Roche was an
Associate of the Royal Scottish
Academy, first exhibiting in 1889 ana
last in 1892. He exhibited twice at
the Royal Academy and three times
at the Grosvenor Galleries, andspe-
cialised in figure paintings. There
are ho works by him in Australian
National Galleries Robin: A re-
pellant for rabbits attacking fruit-
trees can be made from loz. bitter
aloes, 11b. common soap and 1 gallon
water. Cut the soap up finely and
bring to the boil for about 20 minutes
and add the bitter aloes. Apply to
the trees with a brush... . A.M.H.:
Snails lay small rounded whitish eggs
in clusters of about 100 at a spawn-
ing. They bury them, as a rule, just
below the surface of the ground in
loose soil. Squashing the eggs on
hard cement or asphalt paths would
destroy them, but if squashed on the
soil it is possible the young would,
or could, survive. It would be
helpful to drop them into a container
of water, preferably with a strong
disinfectant added, and leave for a
period... .C.R.G.8.: To effectively
bring about the desired arrangements
it would be necessary for legal docu-
ments to be prepared and the services
of a solicitor would be required.
P.B.: (1) In absence of an open
market for ilmenite in Australia no
action is recommended. (2) Examina-
tion of a sample is essential for
identification of any mineral. Under
the circumstances no advice can be
offered re justification for a special
visit... .8.C.: (1) Much depends
upon the individual and nerve
stability. Fresh air acts as intensifier
or stimulant to nerves already on
tension. (2) “Lug-pulling” is an old
ringside method employed, because
of sensitiveness of these members, to
increase blood circulation 8.L.G.:
Write Mr. G. R. Pittaway, Box 28,
380 Collins-street, Melbourne
J.McC.: Write Hooper Bailie and
Co., St. Mary’s (N.5.W.)... .C.J. :
Write Society of Australian Genealo-
gists, 91a Phillip-street, Sydney....
F.A.N.: The following books are
recommended: Pottery by R. D. and
M. E. Sniveley (10s. 6d.), Potters
Book by Bernard Leach (395. 6d.),
The Potter’s Craft by C. F. Binns
(235.), Pottery Craft by Divine and
Blackford (11s. 9d.), and Pottery for
the Amateur (2s. 9d.) J.A.8.:
Actinotherapy Technique, by Henry
Gauvain, from Watson Victor, Ltd.,
205 St. George’s-terrace, Perth, or 13
Bligh-street, Sydney. Price, posted,
12s B.B.: (1) Medical term is 1
thyrotoxicosis and origin is in over-
active thyroid gland. Actual cause
is indefinite; toxins from bowel and
other organs aggravate trouble.
Treatment consists of long rest,
elimination of intestinal infection,
and gland-extract administration as
prescribed by doctor. Much depends
upon age. (2) Sinusitis or inflamma-
tion of post-nasal cavities. There is
usually mucous accumulation with
catarrh. Dry location is best. Any
source of irritation, dust, excess
smoking, etc., should be avoided.
Sulpha drugs oil are largely pre-
scribed. See doctor.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted j and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany .
MS. should be addressed to the Editor.
R.K.: You should try to be kinder
to retired lieutenant-colonels
L.N.S.: Only the Religious Editor
was pleased with the poem about the
barmaid’s downfall.... W.N.A.: It
lacks even the faintest glimmer of
originality... .8.5.: A woman’s paper
would like the plot and might even
pardon the sentimentalities J.H.J.:
It leaves no impression but a faint,
lingering gloominess... .L.P.: Even
for a poem about Chifley that collec-
tion of exclamation-marks is a record.
Bellerive: Ah! What it is to be
young:—
P.W.B.: “I fear they are far
from possessing any merit.” Well,
you’re a sound critic T.S.: Ghost
yarns seldom haunt this office
L.M.: A clumsy conclusion to an
otherwise convincing yarn G.S.A.:
Nearly three pages before you start
on your story T.G.: When last
seen “The Cattle-pup” was headed
for home E.S.: “Yet in thirty
seconds Jasper was dead, for the
poison of the witch-doctor works
quickly.” True, it killed that story
in no time R.R.: Sorry, but half-
a-dozen prospectors are already dying
in our w.p.b M.W.: “The idea for
the enclosed story came to me while
shaving.” Grow a beard H.M.P.:
Swagmen who talk like professors are
barred D.A.: A shower of dots
won’t make the ordinary grow into
the sublime S.C.: Don’t know
where you could publish them
C.0’8.: Kelly, his head swaying
drunkenly, lurched to the door.” It
took him right into the w.p.b
A.W.T.: Somehow we thought he
was going to have a heart of gold.
....T.J.: Only the very young are
permitted to begin their stories with
“Once upon a time there lived an
old man” F.S.: “A feeling of wild
excitement possesses me, my head is
a turmoil of fantastic fancies.” You
should see a doctor P.H.F.; Two
ij nes then:
0[ come to Australi land of th e
kangaroo!
yh, come ye here where the skies are
always blue.
_ R.J.McG.: Found little to admire
exce pt the courage which could
rhyme “gin and peppermint” with
“thin and despondent”... .JD.:
You’d do better to use the material
as paragraphs. R.J.G.: Hobgob-
hns, gnomes and elves are shot on
sight J.Sr: A washout from the
Start.
As a child I played
’Neath the branches green,
In the spreading shade
Of a broad willow-tree.
When the setting sun
Sank low in the west,
And little sparrows
Did retire to rest.
My mother dear with
Fond reverent care,
Would teach me to lisp
My evening prayer.


ffc.
IU
Ull
u.
O
S
P
Hot, tired feet need
this treatment
A Cuticura Soap bath
and Cuticura Oint-
ment application. Try
it and enjoy real foot
comfort. _ Cuticura
Ointment. 'Soap and
Talcum Powder—
the famous
trio.
533
araw
(uticura
OINTMENT
11»
d
Connoisseurs
fer I'a % fine * brandy
after meals. The time
is coming when there’ll
be plenty of “St. Agnes”
for everyone.
rn
V
BOTTLED IN south AUSTRALIA by Angoves LfcU
YOU CAN NOW QUICKLY LEARN TO
PLAY THE
PIANO
If you have ever wanted to
here is your opportunity tc
remarkable English system.
You may never have touched a
piano before. It makes no difference.
No matter how little you may know
about music —no matter if you do
not know one note from another,
you can quickly learn to play by the
new, rapid Graphonote System.
You need no knowledge whatever
of music or notes in order to be
able to read music by the Graphonote
System and to play it.
If you have already tried to learn
the piano in the ordinary way With
wearisome scales, exercises and tedious
practice the new Graphonote System
will come as a positive revelation to you.
In England where the Graphonote
System originated, over ten thousand
people most of whom had no
previous knowledge of music have
learned to play by means of this
revolutionary system.
NO “DRUDGERY”
The Graphonote System is indeed
revolutionary. In the past it took
years of practice to store the player’s
mind with "mental pictures" of the
notes so that they could be easily
found on the keyboard. With the
Graphonote System the “mental
pictures” of the notes are already
provided. They are dearly before
your eyes. Years of drudgery are thus
at one stroke eliminated.
PLAY STANDARD MUSIC
When playing by the Graphonote
System you read from real, standard
five-line” music the sort that is
recognised by musicians all the world
over.
be able to play the piano, then
* learn quickly by means of a
The Graphonote System provides
the most rapid and natural me;hod
of mastering ordinary standard music.
It should not in any way be confused
with "patent,’' "trick” or "number”
systems or other similar "dead end”
makeshifts. Those who learn by such
systems never master the standard
musical notation and are lost when
later they are confronted with a sheet
of ordinary music.
The more you play by the Grapho-
note System, on the other hand, the
more familiar you become with standard
musical notation.
YOU LEARN AT HOME
By the Graphonote System, which
consists of a course of carefully graded
postal lessons, you learn privately in
your own home. It does not matter
where you live, you can learn anywhere.
.You learn in your own time at your own
convenience, without anyone present
to embarrass you. If you make a slip
Graphonote” shows you at once where
you are wrong.
ILLUSTRATED BOOK FREE
You want to be able to play the
Piano well here is your opportunity.
What thousands of others HAVE
DONE you too CAN DO.
The Graphonote System is described
in a booklet entitled, “A New Way
to Leant the Piano at Home.” This
booklet is FREE. Simply send your
name and address NOW and let us
post you a copy at once.
ST. JAMES SCHOOL OF MUSIC
(Dept 4 )66 King St., Sydney
It was by instinct he moved
towards the kampong, for the
jungle was dark.
He heard the sounds of the
enemy before he reached En-
dau, and he was amazed at the
noise, laughter and even shout-
ing. He felt angered by the con-
fidence of their sounds and the
contempt at which they must
have held the enemy, to be
shouting so. Lights, too, were
blazing in all the huts. He felt
then a violent fury, for he and
the boys had been forced to sit
in darkness for weeks, and here
these others were grinning about
their fires as though beacons of
triumph had been lit.
He moved cautiously towards
the club-house, and as he edged
in from the jungle a few fowls
squawked and muttered. He
wondered absently how they had
remained alive and not been
eaten. Then be thought of the
grenades, and no one going near
them. Well, there were no
bombers now. He crept to the
verandah.
The grenades were still there.
He felt them, gingerly, his hand
caressing their roughness. A
load of pineapples. He grinned
at that. Fifty yards away a hut
was burning, but the thick
growth shielded him from its
light. There were Nipponese
about the hut, and in that
moment he remembered the
wounded Australian and the
officer slashing at him with a
sword.
NSIDE the clubhouse he had
to feel his way. His hand came
against a rifle and then a small
heap of pistols. He wanted to
slip one in his belt, but he had
no ammo for them. Gloves for
despatch-riders and, unbeliev-
ably, tommy-guns. He felt two
of them assembled and then
boxes which may have contained
unassembled guns. It was
wrong, these being here, but he
bad more to do than worry. He
had to take those grenades be-
fore the Nips found them.
On the verandah he tried to
lift the box, but it was too
heavy. He slung the tommy-gun
and quietly relieved the box of
some of its contents. He was
able to lift the partly-emptied
box and stagger with it to the
jungle growth.
There he felt hot, the sweat
sticking his clothes to his body,
but all the time there was grow-
ing within him the dream he had
had, time and again, about
sweeping down upon a village.
There would be no sweeping
here, only a half-case of primed
grenades. They were intended
for the laughing little men out-
side the burning huts, and all
those inside the huts, eating and
talking, laughing and shouting,
the small men who had thrown
crackers into the air and waved
little flags. Those who had fol-
lowed the gunboat downriver
did not matter, for they would
die at Jemualuang, in the valley.
Without quite knowing why,
he carried the box through the
growth, skirting the rear of the
kampong. He passed within
touch almost of Nipponese, but
he kept his grenades, for he
knew he wanted more than these.
Finally he set down his box of
bombs and crept into the village.
Towards the river, and almost
to the deserted Customs house,
stood a residence, probably used
by a former Customs officer,
and it was large, two-storied,
with bungalow verandahs. A
great fire burned in front of this
building, and over it was spitted
a pig. Close by it, and using the
flames for light, were crouched a
number of Nipponese officers
peering at maps and papers. He
could see they were officers by
the tailored dress they wore and
the leather leggings so well
polished. About them at the
fire and on the verandahs were
other-ranks of the enemy, but
Tony sensed this was their head-
quarters. He had a moment of
wanting to discharge his tommy-
gun into them, but refrained.
AS he stood there a peculiar
sense of triumph crept into
him. Until now he had worked
by instinct almost. His jungle
training had given him silent
feet, made him noiseless and
even led him to appropriate the
ammo and tommy-gun and
carry this box of grenades, but
his plan had been shadowy,
circling through him as a stream
does in the earth towards the
light. With some pressure the
water becomes a gushing spring,
and this indifference of the
Japanese suddenly made his
hatred gush forth, but even
stronger than his hatred was the
powerful realisation that he was
separate, a strong individual
entity, not bound by Army rules,
not subject to orders, but acting
on his own.
It was an old dream come
alive, about to be fulfilled now
that his spirit was emancipated
from Ray’s command. This
quiet power absolved him from
Terry’s scorn, Pip’s tolerance
and Marshall’s curiosity. He
was completely cut off from
their personalities and existed at
last as himself.
Triumph was a sweet emo-
tion. The Army and all it stood
for faded. Out of all that train-
ing remained only the common
thought of the enemy.
He listened with dislike to the
guttural, almost staccato ac-
cents of the officers. The lower
ranks moved obediently to
orders, and and their very sub-
servience infuriated him, but
even that emotion was subdued
by the queer feeling of exhilara-
tion which was creeping through
him. He was beginning to live
as he had never dreamed of
living; he had an exhilarating
sense of his loneliness and a
powerful sense of completion.
IE went back to his box of
1 1 grenades and worked
slowly through the undergrowth
with them until he was seated
watching the officers. Thoughts
passed through his mind ; it was
madness to hope ever to escape.
It was crazy to think he could
get away with anything. Bridges
were blown, rivers had to be
crossed and a thick jungle to be
traversed. Then there was the
unreality of sitting here when
not long before they had been
playing poker, ignoring the
bombers and their bombs. Now
he was a lone, voluntary guerrilla
without relationship to a force
or movement. Still he watched.
The mosquitoes troubled him
now. Trained as he was to let
them bite, he had a maddening
desire to move, unsettle them,
swipe them away, as though of
all things in the world this whs
the most desirable. Yet his
other desire kept him still. He
would not move a fration until
the troops had finished their
meal and were gone inside. In
the distance he could hear the
persistent laughter of other
groups, but his mind was set
now sternly and gladly upon
this house and its group of
soldiers.
The spitted pig had been
dragged from the fire, bowls of
rice and stew set before the
officers. They ate hurriedly, and
before the meal was generally
finished rose and left the camp.
Tony’s heart sank at that, but
he consoled himself that they
would not be long gone. He
watched the others eat, engulf-
ing their food, until hunger be-
gan in him like a dull pain in a
pit, but he fought it, promising
himself better things, thinking
only of the box of grenades at
his side. ~
The fire burned low when the
orderlies and servants left it, and
after a time the singing in the
distance died and the soldiers in
the house seemed to sleep. The
officers had not returned, but he
divined they would and began
moving quietly, allowing the
blood to run through his
numbed limbs. Then he unslung
his tommy-gun and began lifting
the case of grenades. About him
was the vast silence of the jungle,
the marshes and the village.
j—J E worked through the grove
A * of palms which led towards
the house. The fire flickered on
him as he moved, but he hurried
from palm to palm, grateful for
the shadows, but the box was
heavy, and, he began to think,
too heavy. As a man who runs
will keep running from the sheer
anguish of it, so he persisted with
the heavy weight. He felt the
blood draining from his body
and rushing to his pounding
heart, but he did not dare lower
the weight to the ground. He
swayed as he walked, his step
almost drunken.
In the jungle he had walked
soft-footed <as a panther, but
here his boots seemed to ring
on the ground. When, finally,
he bridged the seeming miles and
was almost to the verandah, it
seemed his heart thudded louder
than his steps.
He felt almost naked crossing
from the palms to the verandah,
and then he had the terrifying
sense that someone was watch-
ing him, but destiny would not
allow a withdrawal, and he
staggered on.
His feet on the verandah
boards were dull and hollow,
and the sound made him pause.
Any moment the bayonet; yet
he lowered the box to the floor,
knelt beside it and heaped the
grenades gently so that the
pyramid could be seen by him
in his jungle hideout.
As he moved again towards
the concealing palms he heard
the low voice of some soldier
and then, in reply, guttural ac-
cents, but it was not of him they
were talking, for there was
laughter and after it silence.
Relieved, he crept towards his
position in the jungle, and when
he thought he had arrived com-
menced searching for his tommy-
gun. He had a moment’s terror
when he could not find it, but
was reassured when cold steel
pressed up against his hand.
Whilst he sat, watched and
waited, he removed the maga-
zines from the bandolier. In the
silence he thought about Pip and
Ray, Terry and Marshall making
towards Jemualuang or Mersing.
It would be different in those
places. They would not be En-
daus. Nor would Ray and the
boys know an experience such as
this. He smiled when he thought
they might never know of this,
either.
When he had almost begun to
believe the officers would not re-
turn they came along the road,
talking noisily and gesticulating.
There was some argument in
progress. Now' he could take
aim with his tommy-gun and
wipe them out. That would be
easy, but he did not want it.
The old dream persisted of the
confusion he could cause, the
brilliant denouement, the ever-
lasting glory.
He watched them enter the
camp and go towards the build-
ing. At the same time other
soldiers awakened and came
through the dopr of the front
verandah. He had a sickening
feeling that they would discover
the grenades and his plot, but
they seemed not to notice the
box. It was only when an officer
approached the verandah that
the box was discovered. Even
then Tony hoped he was more
curious than alarmed. Then the
officer shouted something and
his fellow - officers crowded
around him.
Finally one shouted
something and pointed towards
the jungle.
Tony muttered angrily “You
don’t know a thing,” and
tightened his grip on the tommy-
gun. He felt he could not wait
another moment, not even if his
life depended on it, so close he
was pressing to his triumph.
If he did not fire then he could
escape. Unsuspecting, they
would not searcK for him. One
burst of the tommy-gun arid they
would know and be after him.
Well, they would never get him.
AS he pressed the trigger he
** felt the upsurge of joy, the
rush of complete happiness, as
though, through all his tenseness
and apprehension, a power had
crept which justified him for-
ever in his action. It laid waste
all his minor moments of fear
and made him feel powerful, as
though, too, no man might ever
have felt this. Then, when the
gun sounded, he knew his mis-
take. There was no stutter of
fire, only a single shot.
Quickly he clicked across to
automatic-fire, and this time his
gun sang. He saw the falling
forms of the Nipponese, some
of them dead, some of them in-
stinctively taking cover. There
were bursts of pistol-fire, but no
rifle-shots. They had not ex-
pected the moment.
He replaced a magazine and
moved from his original posi-
tion, spending the new supply.
On the third magazine he took
steady aim.
Now there were soldiers run-
ning through the night, shouts
and screams and orders being
barked. There was rifle-fire, but
he decided it was panic-fire, for
none came from the building.
The building itself was illumined
now by the fires, and at the win-
rows along the top verandah the
soldiers were crowding. There
were more in the building than
he had dared dream for.
Then he saw a soldier running
towards the jungle straight for
where his first fire must have
shown.
His first impulse was to shoot
at the soldier, to alter his aim,
to defend his life, but he con-
quered the feeling and took care-
ful aim at the verandah. By now
ffie soldiers were pouring from
the house, running around the
walls, but none followed the lone
fighter who was making for him,
firing as he came.
There was an eternity almost
as he took his aim—between the
pressure of the finger and fire —
a century which rolled solemnly
around before being expended.
In that moment he thought of
nothing, not even the man com-
ing towards him, only the
crouched heap of soldiers near
the box of grenades, the ones
he had killed and the others who
had not been killed but only
thrown into momentary be-
wilderment.
Then he fired.
At first there was no response,
not for another eternity in which
the running soldier had passed
the palms and was on the edge
of the jungle. He remembered
the time that must elapse be-
tween the setting-off of a grenade
and its explosion.
"'THEN the explosion came, not,
* as he had thought, a repeat-
ing roar, but one concerted roar,
with* smackings of sound as
though mortars were bursting
with it. The building smashed
outwards, flinging debris into the
air, and with it came screams
and shouts and a great glare
which must have lit the entire
village. He trembled then with
joy and did not even care about
the matter which fell near him,
which dropped through the trees
and padded into the ground. He
heard the shriek as spme of it
flew overhead, and then he saw
the running Nipponse hesitate.
He shot him in the same
moment, and as though pos-
sessed, gathered together
another into his gun,
slipped the remainder into the
bandolier and ran crashing
through the jungle.


LEAVE IT TO A. M. L. & F. !
What a relief to know the whole problem can be handed over to A.M.L.&P.
with complete confidence!
Whatever it is—the sale and purchase of properties,' agistment, shortage of
essential station supplies and machinery, the sale of fat stock on a touchy
market, and the thousand' and one other worries of the man on the land—•
the solution is easy—“leave it to A.M.L.&F.”
85 Years in the Service of the Man on the Land.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance Coy. Ltd.
Inc, in England in 1863.
4 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches at Newcastle, Wagga, Moree, Henty and Hay.
A 18.22
— - ' -
The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
grinder discs—recommended for shearing-shed work.
ii k r
i:A '■
$
™WHI
40z., Boz., 160 z., 1 gallon sizes . . . Hardware and general stores
er
Famous British
ENGINES
are
NOW
AVAILABLE
at
REDUCED
PRICES
For immediate delivery contact
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY. LTD.
’PHONE: MA 6311 7-11 MARKET ST., SYDNEY
f '&»'■
ft? 1 }
Your choice ii CINZANO
Vermouth, whether your taste is for
sweet or dry. CINZANO Vermouth
gives Just that extra exhilarating tang
to the palate.
e
i
T H E MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WOR RY. I'M SENDING IT TO GRAZCOS."
Bigger Lambing Percentages.
“Agric”: At a field-day at
Wellshot station, near Ilfra-
combe (C.Q.), discussion took
place on increasing lambing per-
centages and on disease and
pest - control. Ridley Young
(senior departmental sheep-and-
wool adviser at Longreach),
assisted by George Morrison
(senior adviser, Barcaldine),
made these points:
The necessity for a high plane
of nutrition for ewes heavy in
lamb ; importance of adequate
natural or artificial shade;
handy water in lambing-pad-
docks ; that, prior to purchas-
ing rams, and on seasonal in-
spection prior to joining, only
rams enjoying fuff sexual health
should be selected; that the
correct preparation of rams for
joining should include twice-
yearly shearing, provision of
good shade and pasture in ram
paddocks and pre-feeding of
rams for six to eight weeks in
bad seasons.
It was pointed out that rams
might become temporarily in-
fertile through a diet lacking
vitamin A and protein; the
effect of heat, high temperatures
and shade deficiency; fever
from fly-strike; overdriving;
long-wool jetting and dipping in
arsenical preparations. Sea-
sonal conditions were a primary
consideration when selecting the
most suitable time for joining.
Other considerations were:
What time would give the maxi-
mum chance of survival of
lambs and mothers? What time
would the maximum number of
ewes be on heat, and when
would the rams be at maximum
fertility?
For the treatment of soda-
bush poisoning Young stressed
the need for early attention.
Calcium boro-gluconate and a
20-c.c hypodermic syringe
should be on hand during sheep
movements. The contents of a
2ioz. packet of calcium boro-
gluconate is dissolved in half a
pint of rain-water at the boil and
allowed to cool to blood-heat.
Fifty to 80 c.cs. of this solution
is then injected under the loose
skin along the ribs. If treated
early enough recovery can be
rapid and spectacular. One
packet is sufficient for only five
sheep, so a good supply is ad-
visable, as mortality has at
times been fairly common. With-
out treatment death follows
quickly. Prevention measures
include feeding hay in untruck-
ing yards ; transporting by road
from untrucking yards over
danger areas; drovers picking
routes near untrucking yards
free from bad patches of soda-
bush.
Young Dairy Cattle.
“Mr.”; Most of them are
born healthy, and mortality is
due mainly to errors in feeding
and management. Prevention
should start early. On farms
where disease is known to exist
the calf’s navel should be liga-
tured at birth and swabbed with
iodine. The new-born should
get its own mother’s milk for
the first few days. This milk
(colostrum) has laxative proper-
ties and contains elements which
help the calf to resist disease.
Feed whole-milk for the next
three or four weeks and make
the change to separated milk
gradually. For the cream re-
moved by the separator substi-
tute a fish-liver oil, loz. to 2oz.
daily. , Scald feed-buckets after
every meal. When the calf be-
gins eating pasture most of its
mineral requirements will be
met, but a lick is never out of
place. Supply this by mixing
one part of dicalcic phosphate,
bone-meal or bone-flour in four
parts of salt.
See that the youngster has
adequate shelter. Sheds should
be bright, airy and dry, with an
impervious floor sloped for
drainage. Cover the floor with
ample clean bedding and change
it frequently. Calf paddocks
should be roomy and free from
the drainage of other paddocks.
Subdivide to allow of the calves
being moved on to fresh ground
every week. Six paddocks will
give each pasture a five-weeks’
spell.
Green Feed for Pigs.
“Rooster”: There’s a sad lack
of it on many farms where pigs
are a sideline. In a report to
our Victorian Herd-testing As-
sociation a Government inspec-
tor stated that unthriftiness in
pigs was widespread. This means
carelessness on the farmer’s
part, or lack of knowledge—or
both.
Lack of green-feed will en-
couTage infertility in sows and
boars ; mortality in pigs at birth
increases. It retards growth,
creates unhealthy skin condi-
tions and often brings on pneu-
monia. *
In autumn native pastures are
usually dry. A good idea is to
sow a small paddock with
lucerne. Scythed and fed to the
pigs daily it will be of invalu-
able benefit.
Pigs have the power of storing
up vitamin A and other essential
nutrients in their bodies for long
periods, and this often leads pig-
raisers into a state of false
security. They argue that be-
cause the animals have gone for
months without green food with
no noticeable symptoms of im-
poverishment lack of it has no
bad effects.
But when these reserves run
out things go wrong. The
weather, the flies, even the pigs
themselves are blamed for the
sudden crop of sickness. Green
food will not replace the major
part of a pig’s diet, such as
grain, milk or root crops, but it
does supply the essential vita-
mins.
Provision should be made for
an all-the-year-round supply of
green - feed. Green pasture,
forage crops, green lucerne,
"No, Mick —the boss' 1 distinctly said no knotty
timber.”
clover or meadow-hay can be
available for most of the year.
Whenever or wherever this be-
comes inpracticable manufac-
tured fish-liver oil emulsion can
be used. There is no excuse for
robbing the pig of vitamin A.
Sugar Development.
“Beroo”: At Mackay (Q.) re-
cently J. H. Buzacott, senior
plant-breeder of the Queensland
Sugar Experiment Stations, out-
lined some of the varietal
changes which had occurred in
local cane crops over the last
15 or 16 years. In 1933 more
than 80 p.c. of the crop came
from varieties such as M. 1900
Seedling and Badila, old so-
called “noble” canes, but by 1948
the new varieties Q. 28 and Q. 50,
both products of the local experi-
ment station, had displaced the
old favorites, and a much bigger
average cheque for the district is
the result.
Both canes are hardy, easy to
grow, resistant to most im-
portant diseases, and Q. 50 in par-
ticular shows a higher sugar con-
tent. The scientists cannot rest
on their laurels, however, and
the breeding of new canes is pro-
ceeding all the time, spurred on
by the hope that somewhere in
the thousands of seedlings tested
each year stiff better commercial
canes will be found.
The War on Weevils.
“C.S.”; C.S.I.R. investiga-
tions showed that bagged wheat
can be stored for several years
provided the depot is on land
not previously used for wheat
storage (or, if so, has been
thoroughly treated to disin-
fect the area from weevil)
and that sufficient care is taken
in other ways. The stacks must
be mouse-proofed and supported
on an adequate platform of
wooden dunnage. They must be
well protected against rain, and
the wheat must be carefully
examined as it is taken into the
depot to prevent the entry of
weevily parcels of grain.
During the war, however, these
ideal conditions could not be
maintained, and severe weevil
outbreaks occurred. Previously
there had been no economic
method of treating infestations
of this sort, but C.S.I.R. experi-
ments showed how the whole
structure could be fumigated
effectively at extremely low cost
without dismantling the stack.
Temporary airtight curtains were
used to surround the stack and
carbon bisulphide poured over
the top. The heavy bisulphide
vapor penetrated throughout the
bags, diffusing to all levels of
the stack. This method was
applied to millions of bushels of
bagged wheat, and prevented the
weevil in bagged wheat from get-
ting out of hand.
However, the problems of
weevil-control in bulk-grain
storages are quite different from
those of bagged wheat. An un-
usual feature of Australian bulk
storage is that great use has been
made of bulk depots which con-
sist of large sheds, on the floors
of which rest single piles of
wheat, measuring up to 40ft. or
50ft. in depth, 200 ft. in width
and one-third of a mile in length.
A depot of this size would hold
10 million bushels of wheat.
The entry of different kinds of
weevils cannot be prevented
when such a huge quantity of
wheat is going into a single shed,
and pockets of weevil may de-
velop at many points, com-
pletely out of sight in the earlier
stages of infestation.
The insects cause the tempera-
ture of the wheat to rise rapidly,
and the weevils soon make things
literally too hot for themselves it
they are far below the wheat sur-
face, and they die out. It is only
near the wheat surface, where the
atmosphere carries away much
of the heat produced by the in-
sects, that they remain in large
numbers, causing great damage.
C.S.I.R. research soon produced
methods of fumigating these sur-
face infestations. It also pro-
duced an interesting method of
reducing the incidence of these
infested areas (or hotspots) in
the extensive wheat surfaces of
the bulk depots.
Dusts made from various Aus-
tralian minerals dried and ground
into an extremely fine powder
were scattered over the whole
mound of wheat, and formed a
protective layer through which
insects flying about the depot
must pass before settling down
to begin fresh infestations. When
the weevils come into contact
with such dusts, the particles
penetrate to the comparatively
delicate membranes lying be-
tween the body segments and, by
abrasion, damage a waxy layer
on the outside of the insect’s
skin. This waxy layer prevents
water loss from the insect’s body,
and when it is damaged the insect
slowly dries out and dies. It
was found that these dust-layers
greatly reduced the incidence of
hotspots, and that, together with
surface-fumigation, they gave
good weevil control at low cost.
Because of the introduction of
these control measures stored
wheat held in Australia during
the recent war suffered relatively
little damage.
Drills and Drilling.
“Radian”: The best drilling
equipment consists of a two-
speed breast-drill, carpenter’s
ratchet-brace and twist-drills to
suit. Choose a heavy breast-
drill having a chuck capacity of
Oin. to The lower the gear
ratio the more serviceable this
tool will be for general require-
ments and use in confined
spaces.
Twist-drills can run away with
money. It is better to buy the
bare necessities, which can be
added to as further sizes are re-
quired. It will be noted that
|in. and |in. bolt sizes pre-
dominate on farm machinery,
with iin., 5/16in. and fin. next
and 7/16in. almost obsolete.
There is always a fair sprinkling
of 3/16in. metal thread-screws
and odd fin. bolts, while 3 / 32in.
and fin. cotter-pins are com-
mon. With these sizes in view,
the following drills are recom-
mended: 3/32in., fin., 3/16in.,
fin., 5/16in., |in. in straight-
shank and fin., fin., fin. in bit
stock drills.
Easiest method of drilling is to
first locate and centre-punch the


A
*
mi %
'iv
THE
This responsibility
is yours
Your beneficiaries have every right to expect that your
estate will be handled with the utmost care. If your
judgment is faulty, imprudent administration can endanger
assets built up by your energy and foresight. However, it
is a simple matter to provide competent control: the
appointment of Burns Philp Trust Company as executor
or trusted ensures that your beneficiaries will be protected
at every turn.
A copy of "Hands That Ntever Leave the Wheel" will be
forwarded on request. Full details of the Company's many
services are given in this interesting booklet.
DIRECTORS:
James Burns Joseph Mitchell P. T. W. Black Eric Priestley Lee
MANAGER: L. S. Parker SECRETARY: E. R. Overton, A.F.I.A.
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR • TRUSTEE • AGENT
Constituted by Special Act of the N.S.W. Parliament.
Head Office; 7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Tel.: BU 5901 Box 543, G.P.0., Sydney
BP2-49
This Symbol means
PRODUCT OF
INTERNATIONAL
HARVESTER
THIS IH symbol means product of International
Harvester . . .
Throughout the length and breadth of the Com-
monwealth you’ll see International Harvester’s
products—lnternational Trucks, International In-
dustrial Power, and International McCormick-Deer-
ing Tractors and Farm Equipment—playing a
major part in the development and great advance-
ment of our Transportation Services, our Agricul-
ture, and our Secondary Industries. International
Harvester is pleased that its products are vital
and essential in this great national progress . . .
International Harvester’s products are sold and
serviced by over 600 trained and specially equipped
dealers located at convenient centres in every part
of the Commonwealth.
When you have need for products such as those
that International Harvester builds, see your near-
est International Harvester distributor or dealer.
You can count on IH products and the distributors
and dealers who sell and service them.
International Harvester Company of Australia Pty. Ltd.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
Branches in ail capital cities. Factory: Geelong
m.
**
INTERNATIONAL
THE MARK
OF EXPERIENCE
AND QUALITY
Every International is "all-truck ” built.
Utilities, and light, medium, and heavy •
duty models.
1
- -V"'
w***
m
iliiiii
%%
rwCjr-Q
i
S 3?
IXo*9&rr''S-
P» '' ' ’ ~
1
There’s an International for every haul-
ing purpose. Capacities i to 10 tons.
aer
International McCormick-Deering “Farmall”
Tractor with direct-connected multi-row
equipment.
- ..
International Industrial Power the range
includes “Wheel" and “Crawler” Tractors
and complete “Power Units ” for all
Industrial purposes.
1224-27
INTERNATIONAL
'McCORMICK-DEERING INTERNATIONAL TRACTORS AND FARM EQUIPMENT
INTERNATIONAL
HARVESTER
HARVESTER
LYSAGHTS
PROOf
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
wmm
r
■■■-:
- ~.
m
4*9i.:
5
’fjgkih-
mi
m
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Reg’d Office & Works, Blackwall Pt. Road, Five Dock,
City Office, 17 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYS AG HI'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING. ETC.
bole, then run a 3/16in. drill
through as a leader. If finished
hole is to be Jin. or under shift
to low gear and follow up the
leader with a drill of the re-
quired size. For larger holes
follow the leader with a |in. drill
then use a bit stock drill in car-
penter’s brace for finished size.
This method is not nearly so
slow as it sounds, and in practice
is effective. Drills should not
be forced when enlarging holes,
otherwise tips will shatter.
Tobacco and Linseed.
“He-Ne”; The Federal Gov-
ernment, it seems to me, is
neglecting golden chances of
putting Australian tobacco and
linseed industries on a firm and
permanent footing. Instead of
the Australian Agricultural
Council urging strongly a
guaranteed linseed price, it
shuffled out of responsibility and
referred it to the Tariff Board for
an inquiry. Unless the board
moves quickly farmers might not
plant as much as last year when
they only grew about l-60th of
present home requirements.
Overseas linseed - producers
have overtaken shortages, and
there is plenty of linseed oil
available for paint-making, but
exporters are wisely retaining the
valuable meal by-product for
their stock-raising industries.
That is why Australia should
strive to become self-supporting.
The Commonwealth Govern-
ment could help with a guaran-
teed price, and use import
licences to allow only enough to
come in to make up local
annual requirements.
Two factors are holding back
Australian tobacco production:
(a) lack of a guaranteed price
over a term of years, and ( b )
lack of labor. Dollar shortages
should make it obvious to the
Government that tobacco-grow-
ing here should be fostered and
stimulated. America is now
overproducing, and certain in-
terests might induce our Gov-
ernment to import cheap leaf to
the detriment of local growers,
Australia can, and does, pro-
duce a good leaf. There is no
mystery about tobacco-growing,
and there is nothing known in
the U.S. on the subject not
known here. The main attribute
towards successful tobacco cul-
ture is soil of a sufficiently low
fertility. There are tens of
thousands of acres of such land
in Australia.
Hydatids.
“A.M.M.”: Practically all
hydatid infection arises from
dogs fed or given access to raw
offal. Prevention lies in breaking
the life-cycle of the parasite at
this point. All offal should be
cooked by boiling for 10 minutes
before being fed to dogs, livers
and lungs of aged ewes being
especially potent sources of in-
fection. Dogs should be regu-
larly dosed with arecoline hydro-
bromide tablets. To prevent
vomiting, pet the dog or speak
quietly to it, or tie it up so that
it cannot lower its head to do the
act. Dosing with these tablets
breaks the life-cycle of the
parasite in its final stage in the
dog.
A simple way to dispose of
plucks is to sling wire-netting be-
tween poles 10ft. to 15ft. from
the ground and throw the offal
into the sling. This is suitable
only in dry areas where the offal
dries rapidly and livers soon be-
come tough and leathery so that
maggot-infestation and putre-
faction are not evident. Flies
have been known to spread infec-
tion, so reduce their numbers. ‘
Children should be taught to
thoroughly wash their hands
after playing with dogs ; children
should not be allowed to handle
farm dogs. The regular dosing
of dogs and preventing them
eating infected offal are the two
main steps in elimination of the
disease. Cats are of no import-
ance in the spread of the disease.
Liming the Pens.
“Big Billy”; Advantages of
liming poultry-pens to ward off
dampness may be summed up as
follows: Health of birds is im-
proved, egg-production is in-
creased, labor is saved in clean-
ing pens once monthly and less
fresh straw is required, manure
has sale-value to market-
gardeners through being fine and
dry when removed after lime
treatment.
Tests by S.A. Department of
Agriculture have established that
hydrated lime (prepared by
screening lime fresh from the
burning process, damping it and
placing in an airtight container
for 10 days, then milling in a
crusher before bagging) is
superior to slaked lime.
Minimum quantity necessary
would be ilb. per bird and the
maximum 11b. Experiments
were conducted with 501 b. of
lime in pens 20ft, x 17ft., alter-
nately forking in the lime with
existing litter and applying it
mixed with half a bale of fresh
straw. Best results were obtained
from the latter method. Be-
cause the amount of dampness
varies in pens on individual
farms it is emphasised that dis-
cretion is necessary in the
amount of lime used' and the in-
tervals it is applied.
t Hints for the Farm.
“Sarina”: Those lemon-trees
of “Pongo’s” (B. 30/3/’49) were
obviously suffering from mag-
nesium deficiency. Sometimes
green peas will grow and bear
better if watered with a weak
solution of Epsom salts (mag-
nesium sulphate). In U.S.A. ex-
periments, grape-vines yielded
much heavier crops when treated
with mild solutions of zinc sul-
phate and iron sulphate. All
trace elements must be used
sparingly or they’ll do more
harm than good.
“Bill C.”: Gambia-pea or
crotalaria, a West African
legume introduced into North
Queensland for cane-farm green-
manuring, has run wild and is
assuming pest proportions on the
central coast. The plant grows
7ft. high and throws out strong
runners. It is a perennial in
warm, wet districts, and cannot
be got rid of. It needs the atten-
tion of the weed-destruction
experts.
“W. Court”: Empty fertiliser
sacks should be soaked in a
kero.-tin of water. Soak one bag
at a time and then use the liquid
manure before soaking another
bag in fresh water. If the liquid
is very cloudy, dilute with fresh
water and give sparingly to the
vegetable rows.
“M,”; Either of these treat-
ments will cure scaly-leg on
poultry: Dip feet and shanks in
crude oil and scrub with a hard
brush (but keep the stuff clear
of the feathers) or wash the legs
in soapy water, and rub well into
the scales a mixture of nine parts
of lard and one part of sulphur.
Disinfect perches with crude oil.
“Urana”; If you intend buy-
ing shrubs or roses in the winter,
prepare the holes for them in
autumn. Dig good deep holes
and half-fill them with animal or
fowl manure. Return the soil
and leave for a couple of weeks.
After that, mix thoroughly by
turning over the manure and soil
each week, and by the time the
plants are ready the ground will
be in excellent condition. There
is no danger of burning from the
manure if it is applied two or
three months beforehand and
well dug in.
“C.A.A.”; Hay fed to calves
after the first autumn rains will
greatly assist in preventing the
severe scouring which sometimes
follows grazing on rich pastures.
Rotate the animals through the
paddocks at intervals of a few
days.


|A TRUE STORY)
Coventry
Migrant
aer
builds future as Mo
ir Mechanic
When an English migrant
from Coventry arrived with his
family in an Australian country
town, he found that there was
no equivalent position offering
in- his former occupation of
grinder. On calling at the dis-
trict office of the Common-
wealth Employment Service, he
was advised that whilst an op-
portunity to follow his trade
would certainly be available
with a tool manufacturing con-
cern in the nearest capital city,
accommodation for himself and
his family could be assured
only by his remaining in the
country.
During the interview the
migrant disclosed that in addi-
tion to his own trade, he had
acquired experience in England
as a motor mechanic.
The District Employment Offi-
cer took a personal interest in
the case, to the point of arrang-
ing a Sunday morning confer-
ence between the applicant and
the partners in a motor work-
shop. An offer of employment
as a motor mechanic was then
made, subject to acceptance of
the migrant’s qualifications by
the appropriate Australian
Trade Union. Before the week
was out he was accepted as a
union member, and commenced
work, close to his home and
with his future assured.
This true story, taken from the
official files of the Common-
wealth Employment Service, is
just one example of the assist-
ance regularly given to appli-
cants in search of the right job,
enabling them to make the best
use of their own qualifications.
The friendly advice of experi-
enced employment officers is
available to employers and em-
ployees, free of charge or obli-
gation, at any Branch or Dis-
trict Office of the Service.
COMMONWEALTH EMPLOYMENT SERVICE
Offices throughout Australia.
Consult your telephone directory for
addresses.
CE570.62.39
GIOBITE
TRAVEL CASE
They're lighter, stronger, longer*
lasting. That's why a Globlte
costs less in the long run.
Mode by
FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
The pace that thrills
yj
A
is the pace that kills
■SLjCi
3s*assfsai
A car travelling at high speed is only partly under control. It
can kill —unpredictably and indiscriminately . . . and from
" thrill ”to “ kill ”is often only a matter of seconds. When
you drive at high speeds, you are gambling with your life—and
the lives of others. Don’t take that chance j Drive cautiously.
Keep within the legal speed limits. JBrake it down—before
you step on it once too often.
DEATH IS SO PERMANENT.
aer
jpwnca.
ISSUED BY THE AUSTRALIAN ROAD SAFETY COUNCIL
■*
(Administered by the Commonwealth Department of Transport)
IAVtNA
17-jewelled Swiss
Masterpieces
NON-MAGNETIC ESCAPEMENT
LAV ENA
WATCHES
.Founded in 1852-V illeret, Suisse
LW2
THE
“‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
• Company Accounts
• Mining Activities
PRICE 2/-
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACKSOIH 4
o.shijjva*
% KTKW. v*
t»s BRw
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jaxul” window face envelopes
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE ■ CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUI”, BRISBANE
WMk
m
>!&
Gunrw*3:
:^r.W
THE HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
The self-contained, self-emptying
Sanitary System.
Est, 1937.
Imitation is Sincerest Flattery
Beware of imitations similar in appear-
ance but lacking the internal patent
which makes the Hygeia Dissolvenator
so efficient.
Intending purchasers are invited to in-
vestigate the integrity of the Hygeia
Sanitary 00. Pty., Ltd., the bona fldes of
the Hygeia Dissolvenator, as well as the
value and scope of the Hygeia Guarantee
compared with any other guarantee.
The Hygeia Guarantee includes 7 years
against corrosion.
Let the record of the 12,000 Dissol-
venators sold during the past 22 years
be your guide—do not be misled by
specious statements.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 20 years.
DISTRIBUTORS:
27.5.1 P.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Queensland: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Qld.),
609 Colonial Mutual Building, Queen
St., Brisbane.
Victoria; Hygeia Dissolvenators (Vic.)
Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
S)outh Australia: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co.,
(S.A.), Edment’s Building, Bundle
St AdGlflidc*' v
Western Australia: R. P. Mclnemey &
Co., Ltd., 441 Murray St.,*Perth.
Tasmania: Win. Crosby & Co., Ltd., Laun-
ceston and Hobart.
Darwin: C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales
and Services.
"The Merry Wives of
Windsor."
It is more or less reliably
recorded that one wet Saturday
afternoon Queen Elizabeth rang
up Shakspeare, told him how
bored she was with the court
ritual and would he oblige by
writing another play with Fal-
staff in it, preferably with the
fat knight depicted in the throes
of the love passion. “All right,
Madam,” said the playwright,
and he wrote the play in a fort-
night.
The Merry Queen nearly fell
off her throne with laughing
when she saw it, but next day
the “Times” came out with a
leader deploring the example set
to a virtuous nation by certain
people in high places in patronis-
ing a piece of dubious moral
worth in which country people,
the backbone of the nation,
were displayed in sundry com-
promising situations. To make
the matter worse, the playwright
had had the bad taste to put his
cast on location under the very
shadow of the royal t castle at
Windsor. The play was a gross
libel on some of Her Majesty’s
most loyal subjects. Moreover,
some of the lines, particularly
those put in the mouth of the
principal character, were worse
than the worst line in “Love Me,
Sailor.”
The following Thursday
“Truth” came out with a special
article in which all these lines
were quoted, and sold out within
an hour of publication, some
copies fetching as much as five
shillings. The Lord Chamber-
lain felt it obligatory to him to
obtain a report, and delegated a
sergeant and two policemen to
attend a performance. Subse-
quently he issued an order for-
bidding further performances
until the play had been com-
pletely rewritten and the offen-
sive words and lines deleted.
This was done, and the mutilated
version held the boards for the
next 25 years, when, the Lord
Chamberlain being long dead,
the original play was resur-
rected.
It was the original version
which the Melbourne University
Dramatic Club selected for pro-
duction at the Union Theatre to
celebrate the fiftieth year of its
foundation. If it was doctored
at all, it was by the somewhat
lifeless way Peter Balmford
played Sir John Falstaff. His
fat knight was effective enough
when he was the humbled sen-
sualist caught out in his: sinning,
but most of the time he was as
mild as the buck basket in the
story. Vivianne Ashkanasy as
Mistress Ford and loan Nalty as
Mistress Page would have made
excellent intriguers if they hadn’t
danced all the time like bal-
lerinas.
Bill Ryall was an admirable
Ford and would probably have
made an equally admirable Fal-
staff. Bettine , Kauffmann as
Mistress Quickly, Noel Scrivenor
as Shallow, Albert Ullin as
Slender and the rest of the cross-
section of the Elizabethan rural
population gave all the rush and
excitement of Shakspeare’s writ-
ing, which roused almost con-
tinuous laughter, and the mock
fairy scene in the park was ex-
cellently confected, though it
could have been done with more
violence.
"The Aposties."
The Zelman Memorial
Orchestra and the Malvern
Choral Society, under the baton
of Herbert Davis, opened the
Easter season of religious music
at Melbourne Town Hall with
a performance of Elgar’s great
oratorio.
The music tells, or illustrates,
a story so intensely dramatic
that the talents of a Verdi could
have been exercised upon it.
Elgar’s genius is equal to the oc-
casion. The drama is there and
the awe and reverence and the
gigantic climaxes, plus an extra-
ordinary thread of harmony
woven through an edifice of no
mean proportions.
Mr. Davis got more of the
nuances out of the opus than he
did on the last occasion, and he
was aided by the soloists Lex
Faichnie, Frank Mithen, Ken-
neth Burnett, Charles Skase,
Morris Williams and the invalu-
able Thea Phillips. They were
all in good voice. A thrilling
piece of color was added to the
second part by the Australian
Boys’ Choir. Lawrence Warner
was at the organ.
“Twin Sylvie”: The film was
“Marie Antoinette,” and our
country - town audience was
deeply absorbed. All thoughts
of crops and milking had
vanished ; we were all in another
world. Then it came to the part
where the imprisoned Queen’s
little sen was being taken from
her, and she was trying to com-
fort the child. More than a few
sniffs could be heard, and the
shoulders of strong men in the
rows in front of me heaved.
Then, as the Queen told the little
prince that the guards would be
kind to him, from a small girl
who knew her history came an
explosive “Like hell they will!”
The howl of laughter nearly
lifted the roof.


TIM V ■:
m
A
i
Or,
m
VA
The
Your approach in
the matter of hospi-
tality is beyond re-
proach if your wine
is Tintara Gold Label
Port. Tintara Port—
Australia's Champion:—•
has its firmest friends
among the most discerning.
I often wonder what the
Vintners buy, one half so
precious as the goods they sell.
-OMAB KHAYYAM
MADE BY THOMAS HARDY & SONS LTD., Adelaide. Melbourne, Sydney
ar
“Pm a pioneer
in modern dress!”
.C3C3
DOB
These days, some people don’t think that
tradition counts for much. But I know
better. Pioneering my own business twenty
years ago taught me that tradition is a price-
less ingredient that you have to earn. It’s not something
you can buy on the open market. The way I look at it,
every tradition has a pioneer for a father and its mother,
is experience.
Take the example of 8.0.A.C. ... Its 150,000 miles of
world-wide air services between five continents and forty-
two countries didn’t just happen. There was always a
‘first time’ for every route. Because 8.0.A.C. has the
imagination and the determination to be and stay a leader,
it always looks and plans ahead.
That’s why it’s not surprising that 8.0.A.C. pioneered
the air route between Britain and Australia over ten years
ago. Or that it was the first and for two years the only
airline to fly the present North Atlantic route as a two-
way, year-around service. Nor is it surprising that
B.O.A.C’s 30-year-old tradition of Speedbird service and
experience is reflected by all its personnel.
Yes, I say —never underestimate the importance of tradition!
GREAT BRITAIN • U.S.A. • BERMUDA • CANADA • MIDDLE EAST
WEST AFRICA • EAST AFRICA • SOUTH AFRICA • PAKISTAN • INDIA
CEYLON • AUSTRALIA • NEW ZEALAND • FAR EAST • JAPAN
8.0.A.C. TAKES GOOD CARE OF
FLY-BOH
to the BRITISH INDUSTRIES FAIR, LONDON, 2—13 May, 1949
Information & Bookings : Qantas Empire Airways, Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Townsville, Cairns, Darwin (General Agents in Australia ),
or from Booking Agents in all cities.
A3/AU
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS EMPIRE
AIRWAYS, TASMAN EMPH& AIRWAYS LTD. & SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP.
The No. I Dringk
for wise men
“Hats promise to be quite revolu-
tionary this season.”
— Woman’s magazine.
Perhaps they’re going to make
them look like hats.
4* 4* 4*
“Detective V. Berne said Phillips
admitted taking the coat from a
boarding-house. Police are investi-
gating the circumstances of his death.
One of the objects of the tour, Mr.
Howey added, was to explain to far-
mers the separate functions of his
board.”— Hobart “Mercury.”
Mother and baby are doing
well.
“Hairdressing, perms, done in your
home, appointments suit moth.”
—Suburban paper.
Social butterflies given special
attention.
4* 4* 4*
“Wanted: Few forward pullets.”
— S. M. “Herald.”
To lay fresh eggs?
4* 4* 4*
“Constable Harley said that on a
later date Sugden alleged to him that
he had bnee hit by Power with a
stockwhip, and that Power’s sed had
hit hime on the mack with a ctick,
causing him to seek medical attention.
Part heard.” — Brisbane “Telegraph.’ 1 ’
Exactly!
4* 4* 4*
“There’s no need for your hair-
style to get in a rut.”
— Woman’s paper.
Make tracks to a different
beauty-parlor every now and
again.
“Meat shock for U.K.”
— “S.M.H.” heading.
Perhaps some was found in a
sausage.
“Tlie physical structure of women
does not prevent them from doing
heavy work.” — Magazine article.
But they must be in fine shape
for gold-digging.
-I- ••• •!-
Society has had it in for the
bachelor right from the very first.”
— Woman’s mag.
And taxes him with complete
indifference.
“Wanted, urgently, one lady, un-
furnished or furnished.”
—Suburban paper.
Any sort will do.
Obvious.
“Only seven per cent, of Austra-
lians would migrate to another
country if they were given the chance,
according to a Gallup poll.”
Who are these few that would
not cleave
To this our land, but wish to
leave
Our hills that beckon and the
west
Where freedom lies and think it
best
To shape their lives in other
climes ?
Perhaps a group who feel at
times
The urge to see ancestral homes
Where some slow river gently
roams
Through sylvan England; or
have felt
The nameless call that comes to
Celt
And Gael alike to see once more
Loom from the sea the old-
world shore.
Some others whom I do not
mention
May have no doubt the same
intention.
But local Reds it’s safe to bet
Won’t migrate to the Soviet.
D. H. E.
Inspiring.
“I find it very difficult to get in-
spirations in Sydney. If you walk
down Sydney streets there is nothing
to inspire you. Not like in France,
where there is an idea on every
corner.” — “Sun.”
Lethargic and bereft of in-
spiration the author dragged his
feet along the gay boulevarde.
Despair showed in his heavily-
lined face. His story had been
rejected by all the editors in
Sydney, Buenos Aires, Washing-
ton, London and Zagreb. And
now Paris. He sat m the gutter,
unrolled the soiled manuscript,
and read it again. Yes, they were
right. It lacked an idea.
He sighed. The task seemed
hopeless. His eyes wandered to-
wards the rolling Seine as he
rattled the last few francs in his
tattered pocket. A bottle or two
of vin rouge and then, finis ! He
sighed and got up, but as he
reached the corner his shoulders
squared, and his eyes grew bright
with inspiration. There before
his very eyes was a brilliant idea,
gripping, spectacular, pulsating,
emotional.
“To hell with the story!” he
cried joyfully as he took her arm.
JONES DILL.
Pride.
When haughty Sydneysiders start
to blow
About their “splendid port”
Melburnians show
No hot resentment. This they
volunteer:
“Now, just forget your port —
and try our beer.”
BRIAN BUREAU.
Slightly Technical.
Whenever I go to the big
Easter Show somehow I in-
variably drift in among the
machinery and car exhibits.
Why, I don’t know, for my
mechanical bent is so much de-
veloped that it’s still a straight
line. Probably it is because
there I find refuge from some
of the other exhibits.
The fowls, for instance. Once
in a weak moment I allowed my-
self to be inveigled into gazing
at the prize Langshans, Leghorns
and other feathered aristos, who
gazed back haughtily at me as
though speculating on the queer
types of crossbred humans who
invaded their pavilion. Besides,
the wife then wanted to know
why we couldn’t go in for birds
like that and win something in-
stead of sticking to the bunch of
ancient, moulting matrons which
caused a household sensation
when they didn’t scratch up the
seedlings or did lay an egg.
Similarly, an untimely excur-
sion into the flower exhibits
brought the inevitable compari-
son between the aphis-ridden,
sickly-looking colorless things
that droop on spindly stems in
our front garden and the dinner-
plate-sized prize-winning dahlias
in front of us that stood with
magnificent pride on stems as
thick as young gum-saplings.
My expressed claim that any
mug could grow dahlias like
those if he paid a couple of quid
for a bulb and gorged the thing
on fancy fodder was at once
hotly contested by a fellow
standing nearby gazing
morosely at an enormous bloom
—I gathered by his expression
that his own entry had missed
a prize. It was after I had
rather caustically voiced my
considered opinion that he
couldn’t tell the difference be-
tween watercress apd an orchid
that an official came and
separated us.
Since then, as I say, I have
stuck to machinery. Perhaps it
is that the highly-technical terms
they use fascinate me. I must
also possess versatile facial ex-
pressions, for I am often mis-
taken variously for a cow-cocky,
an earth-moving contractor who
wouldn’t look at a job under the
size of an opencut mine, a wind-
mill expert and a governing-
director about to select a new
Rolls-Royce.
Usually the demonstration I
am obsequiously given of a
latest-type windmill comes to a
sudden end when, after listening
for about 20 minutes to a recital
of the thing’s multiplicity of fine
points which puts it so far ahead
of its rivals, I blandly ask what
does he consider the most suit-
able fuel to use.
This time I got into a car
showroom. The high-pressure
salesman in charge made a bad
guess an( j concentrated on me as
I looked at the latest model with
h e mus t have taken to be
appraisal with a doubt in it.
“Thinking about going in for
a car, sir?” he asked suavely.
“Well, yes, I was thinking of
it,” I said. And so I was. As
a matter of fact, I had been for
some years, and the only diffi-
jj a( j been finding a firm
which would accept £5 as a de-
posit on one.
He looked at me earnestly,
“Have you thought of the
tremendous advantage of having
wet sleeves?” he asked.
j was j U st about to tell him
about the time I was leaning on
the bar and the barmaid knocked
a full schooner over when he
went on:
“ our latest model not only has
overhead wet sleeves and a
chassis built on the divided-axle
principle; the four-speed syn-
chromesh gearbox is worked by
steering - column lever; the
power-ratio to weight is gov-
erned by the centrifugal pull of
the differential; wet - linered
cylinders reduce friction to a
minimum. Where else could you
get a transverse, shaft-driven
model for such a low price as
eleven hundred and seventy
five?”
“I must say”—l began.
“Consider,” he rushed on, “the
advantage of being able to
change it at the push of a button
into the Dragalong torque con-
verter drive? With the new
side-slung, shovel-nosed, self-
sealing plugs, mid-chassis, non-
suspension Clunker coil springs
and- swingback air-filter there is
nothing else made to touch it.”
“But” I began.
“Consider now the special new
Whangdoodle fan. Touch this
little lever and it runs anti-clock-
wise, thus reducing the oil tem-
perature by fifty degrees in-
stantly. With undershot Bat-
tersbee non - alcoholic shock-
absorbers, split-skirt aluminium
alloy-plated valves for anti-scuff,
positive lubrication to timing
and distributor-drive gears, short,
direct induction manifold to
cylinders, sludge - traps to all
crank-pin journals and a com-
pression ratio of”
Here, desperate at last, I held
up my hand imperiously ; then I
stepped up to the open bonnet
and peered in.
“There don’t seem to be any
giggle-pins in the grease-trap,”
I began.
He looked blank.
“And what about the distri- ,
butor-head? It hasn’t the latest .
slack-free bumple-nuts to allow
the cast-cork diaphragm proper ,
interplay with the hot-box. I ,
also note a complete absence of
popple-springs to offset the
Archimedean movement in the
oil-intake wumgle-rods.” ;
By this time he had a desperate i
look in his eye.
“Moreover,” I went on relent-
lessly, “the comble-bars leading 4
to the yerp-screws attached to ,
the swingle-shift seem to be made
of compressed-paper, and I
wouldn’t think of buying a car
which had no foogle-plates
screwed to the inverse ratio. ■
Could you show me a motor-
scooter?”
With a loud cry he rushed out-
side. The last I saw of him he
was weeping bitterly over a
fistful of fairy-floss.
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first Is paid
4j|d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Food or Fun
It is one of the paradoxes of human
nature that abuse is the main reward
for those who attempt to provide the
necessities of life, while those who supply
luxuries and non-essentials are held up as
good citizens. The greatest opprobrium
is reserved for the landlord, for whom
the term bloodsucker is the usual descrip-
tion ; but are the “booze and betting”
interests ever described in such terms?
Yet, as a financial writer in England
has pointed out, while the national income
there has gone up 100 per cent, above
the pre-war total, the income of the land-
lord (before tax) has increased only by
five per cent.
I have no comparable figures for Aus-
tralia, but it is probably much the same
here. I know at least one landlord who
is getting the same rents now as in 1938
—though at least one of his houses has
been sub-let at a higher rate by the tenant.
Here is an interesting comparison of
expenditure on necessities and luxuries in
England in 1938 and 1947. The figures
are in millions:
1938 . 1947
Rent, rates and water charges £491 £564
Alcoholic beverages .. .. 285 688
Tobacco . 177 690
Entertainments 64 175
Most of the increase in the first item is
due to rates. The 1948 total for tobacco
will be even larger.—E. & O. E. (Tas.).
Immigrants
“R.H.” (B. 30/3/’49) suggests that the
houseless migrants who return to England
with their wives and families should in-
vest the cost of their return fares in a
home, which would be available in two
years, when they would be “sitting pretty.”
He forgets that they would require some
suitable habitation at a rent within their
means during the waiting period. He
also forgets that these migrants were in-
duced to come here by official promises
of homes being built by the thousand
to meet the growing demand.
“R.H.” objects to my remark about
“organised laziness,” and instances brick-
makers as examples of industrial energy.
I have just read that they work on piece-
rates ; that the feast efficient can earn the
basic wage and that the more proficient
can earn more than double that amount.
Hence the high cost of their commodity.
“R.H.” forgets, too, the bricklayers who
work by the clock and reduce their effort
to a scandalous minimum which raises
the price of houses beyond all reason
and slows down building to a snail’s
pace.
Australian workers are highly organ-
ised. Their avowed aim is to do as
little work in as few hours as possible.
They support a policy of importing ship-
loads of foreigners to do the hard work
they are too purse-proud to tackle them-
selves. If that- is not organised laziness
then my dictionary is at fault. —Hadit
(S.A.).
Contrary to “R.H.’s” ■ views, it is far
easier and cheaper for a. migrant to
obtain accommodation in England than
in Australia. It took my brother less than
six months to obtain a flat from the
London County Council. “This depart-
ment,” he says, “runs establishments for
people without a home or the means to
pay private rentals.” His immediate
needs have been met for 14s. a week.
I arrived in Australia in July, 1947.
My grouch is that, although I was told
before I sailed that the housing problem
was acute in Australia, I wasn’t in-
formed until long after I’d landed that
there were many homeless Australians
and that Australians would be housed
before migrants.—C. J. M. (W.A.).
Changing Rail-gauges
While I agree as to the impracticability
of transporting coal by rail from Queens-
land to Melbourne or Adelaide (B.
16/3/’49), I disagree (1) that the 3ft. 6in.
gauge in Queensland is as good as the
standard gauge, and (2) that “You can
superimpose a third rail on the broad
gauge, but you cannot reverse the pro-
cess from narrow to broad.”
The 3ft. 6in. gauge was adopted in
Queensland only because of cheapness of
construction. With the powerful loco-
motives on the standard guage in N.S.W.,
trains of 1400-tons loading are being
hauled on certain lines. In the four
States which have the 3ft. 6in. gauge the
average train-load would not be 150 tons.
South Africa may have 67-ton capacity
coal-trucks, but a true test would be the
size of the train-load. As to the narrow-
gauge South African trains hauling goods
cheaper than here, one would want par-
ticulars of South African costs, such as
wages, etc., before that could be taken
as a reflection on the standard gauge.
On the other point, conversion of
gauge, whether by regauging or by third
rail, can be effected from broad to
narrow gauge or from narrow to broad
gauge. In the latter case, if the differ-
ence between the two gauges amounts to
very much, such as in Queensland
(Ift. 2iin.), then longer sleepers are neces-
sary, but in any conversion 25 per cent,
of the sleepers have to be renewed.
In the Russian advance on Berlin in
1945 one of the main lines from the east
was regauged from standard gauge to
Russian broad gauge for over 300 miles.
One cannot help wondering at the com-
parative ease with which some countries
effect large-scale railway-gauge conver-
sions as compared with the assumed diffi-
culties here in Australia. Speed of con-
version in Russia and Germany during
the war is fairly common knowledge ; it
was all done by regauging.
In the U.S.A., where almost all con-
versions have been carried out by the
method of regauging—which has the
advantage of not requiring new rails —
the Louisville and Nashville Railroad
converted 2000 miles of railroad to
standard gauge on Sunday, May 30, 1886,
“I hope they've made up their minds."
and had traffic running again within 12
hours. Costs amounted only to 45
dollars per mile for “throwing the rails
in.” The Erie Railroad Company on
June 22, 1880, converted 388 f miles of
track to standard gauge and had trains
running again in 10 hours. —G. B.
(N.S.W).
Why should Queensland adopt the
standard rail-gauge (B. 9/3/’49)? Well,
the State’s railways would be much more
efficient and economical, for one thing.
Where in Queensland are trains of the
1400-tons-load capacity reached in
N.S.W., and where are any narrow-gauge
locomotives powerful enough to haul
them? It is well known that in 1942
American military engineers and trans-
port-officers were dismayed at the low
capacity of Queensland trains and rolling-
stock.
Again, with regard to speed, the
standard gauge has all the advantages
over the narrow. Sir Harold Clapp in-
stanced the Townsville-Mt. Isa mail-
train which makes an average overall
speed of 21 miles per hour. With this
line converted to standard gauge an im-
mediate increase to 33 miles per hour
could be expected.
The world’s record speed on rails of
143 miles per hour (made on the Ham-
burg-Berlin railway) and speeds touching
120 miles per hour and over made by
the trains of Great Britain and America,
such as the Flying Scotsman and Hia-
watha expresses, have all been made on
standard-gauge railways. The wider the
gauge the greater the efficiency (to rea-
sonable limits), the greater the factor of
safety relative to speed and the smoother
the running because of the elimination of
oscillation and vibration, etc. —R. G. E.
(N.S.W.).
Industrial Conscription?
Mr. Dedman and Mr. Chifley have let
it. out in Canberra that their “full em-
ployment” policy won’t work unless
based on industrial conscription (B.
30/3/’49).
* At a Press conference Mr. Chifley said
he had warned a Labor conference re-
cently “that transfers of labor might be
necessary as production of many com-
modities overtook demand ....the
economy would provide jobs for every-
one but not necessarily the job the indi-
vidual might prefer.” This, he then
elaborated, did not imply any compulsory
manpower system, but an extension of
the Commonwealth Employment System
in “an emergency.” And Mr. Dedman
said “research” is being made by
the C.E.S., which is the “post-war ver-
sion of manpower control.”
Back in the depression days we had
industrial conscription when production
overtook demand. Men were dismissed
from the jobs they were trained for. They
couldn’t pick the job they might prefer;
in fact, thousands couldn’t pick a job of
any kind. Work was not to be had. It
was then that the Government took a
hand and made money available for un-
employment-relief works: and when any
Government makes money available it
usually likes to have the say of how it
is to be spent —or wasted.
. Men had to register for employment
at Labor Bureaux. There were plenty
of forms to be filled in in those days,
too, and you even had to tell how you
stood financially. Then, if a man was
lucky and eventually got a job he was
usually separated from his family and
sent miles away to some Government
works, while men from miles away were
brought to work at his back-door.
In the early 1930’s old men, profes-
sional men and tradesmen were swinging
the axe or the pick and shovel on these
Government-relief jobs. Before they were
permitted to start they had to make over
five-eighths of their pay (the pay less than
the ruling basic-wage) to their wives or
dependants, and also sign a form per-
mitting the amount of their account to
the local trader supplying the camp to
be deducted from their wages. They did
not even have the freedom to handle the
money they had earned. If they refused
to accept a job under such conditions the
penalty was “struck off the dole” and
starvation until they saw fit to accept.
That was a touch of real industrial con-
scription.—L. P. (Vic.).
Free Insulin
There has been much ballyhoo lately
about free insulin for diabetics, but no-
body seems to have raised objection to
the most exasperating feature of the pro-
posal. Insulin is included in the Govern-
ment’s “free-medicine” formulary, but
the doctor may only prescribe enough of
it, at any one time, to last the patient
for three months. Thus the diabetic
would be forced, under the regulations, to
consult a doctor four times a year to
obtain his insulin free.
Insulin, however, cannot be correctly
prescribed following a brief consultation.
The proper adjustment of insulin and diet
requires at least a week in hospital under
constant medical supervision. Once the
diabetic’s insulin-diet balance has been
more or less determined by expert obser-
vation and his regimen stabilised, and
after further home “trial-and-error” ex-
periment, it devolves upon the patient
to treat himself and to make all his own
tests.
Diabetes is perhaps the only disease
where the sufferer must learn to be his
own doctor —only when complications
intervene is it at all necessary for the
ordinary diabetic to take medical advice.
There are thousands of diabetics every-
where, including the writer, who have
been treating themselves for years without
going near a doctor unless some other
trouble arises.
So why waste a doctor’s time in four
useless consultations each year? They
would only mean the doctor asking the
patient how much insulin he uses, writing
the reply on a Government form,
and then bidding him good-morning after
the mere formality of separating him from
twelve-and-six. A statutory declaration
that the sufferer requires insulin and
knows how to use it should be all that
is required by the Health Department
for the issue of a card authorising the
bearer to obtain his insulin free from any
registered pharmacist. Every taxpayer in
the land —including the diabetic himself
—is already paying dor the stuff, and there
is no good reason why it should not be
available immediately.—7346 (N.S.W.).
Labor and Communism
Labor and Communists have both
declared war on private enterprise, with
the object of complete socialisation of
our economy. Thus they are natural and
inevitable allies until the goal is reached.
The Corns recognise that openly. Labor
leaders also know it, but for reasons of
political expediency they don’t proclaim
it. That is why all their brave talk
against the Corns ends as it begins—in
talk. To make war on them would be
to .destroy their own party and policy.
No matter what any individual may
feel about it, there can be no real Labor
opposition to Communism unless and
'until Labor gives up its socialisation ob-
jective, as the Queensland branch seems
half inclined to do.
On the other side of the fence the
lesson to all who believe in liberty is just
as plain. However we may differ on
other matters, circumstances beyond our
control have brought us together on this
one overriding issue of freedom versus
serfdom. If we obscure this fundamental
unity by quarrelling over the compara-
tively minor points on which we legiti-
mately disagree we will eventually lose
the right to differ over anything. — Mag-
noon (Q.).
Amateur Radio Television
The refusal of the P.M.G. (Senator
Cameron) to permit a young amateur
radio-operator to conduct television ex-
periments is indicative of the P.M.G.’s
short-sighted policy toward television.
Having made a careful study of video
transmission and reception, the young
man made the application for a new
licence and permission to import a few
pieces of electronic equipment from
America, for which he also sought dol-
lars.
Everything was purely for experimental
purposes with no monetary gain. The
radio amateur was keen to enter the new
field and thought that possibly the re-
sults of his experiments would help tele-
vision in Australia. Judging by the quick
“No” received from the P.M.G., little
thought was given to the application.
Relations between the Wireless Insti-
tute of Australia (governing body of
Australian amateur radio) and the
P.M.G. Department have always been
very cordial.. Most of the requests sub-
mitted by the W.I.A. have been granted.
This time the department’s officers
were acting under instructions in refer-
ring the application to the Government,
which is more keen on obtaining a tele-
vision monopoly than catering for the
needs of the country’s radio amateurs. —
Waddlin’ Willie (Vic.).
Root of the Matter
On the Murrumbidgee Irrigation Areas
the water-rates, which were fixed back
in the horse-and-buggy days, are claimed
to be the .lowest in the world. For
water sufficient to cover an acre of land
to a depth of Ift. (272,000 gallons),
or the equivalent of lin. of rain over 12
acres, the rice-farmer pays only ss, It
costs the State more than twice ss. to
bring an acre-foot of water from Burnn-
juck Dam to the rice-farm, which, of
course, means that the taxpayer is foot-
ing the bill. Yet after subsidising the
wealthy rice industry, which for some
years has been the fattest agricultural
baby in Australia, the same taxpayer can-
not legally obtain one grain of its pro-
duct for his own home consumption.
Downstream (N.S.W.).
According to a report prepared by the
U.S. Committee on Foreign Affairs, Aus-
tralia has a greater percentage of Com-
munists than any other English-speaking
country. Australia’s 25,000 Communists
represent 31 per 10,000 population, while
the corresponding figure f° r Canada is
20, New Zealand 12, Britain 9, U.S.A. 6.
The figure given for Burma is 3 and
for India 1. In the British Em-
pire only Malaya and Cyprus have a
greater percentage of Communists, u
between them they have only 14,000. The
figures don’t speak well for Labors
“efforts” to reduce the influence of th
Communists in Australia— Barrington
(N.S.W.).


go carefully, in fear of the supposed
woman, to get drinking-water at a
pool:
“ like home. Off for a drink
While she’s not looking.”
In such phrases we are brought very
close to the casual heroes of an almost
incredible world:
Flames strode along the ridges, making
A world where nought was fixed, but all
was true:
A time that had no hours.
No days nor years;
A world where, a time when
Height called to height and kindred ears,
And, without speaking, men could speak to
men.
A world which, moreover, since only
Matthews has given us ,a continuous
description of it in verse, or with such
force, should become more and more
Harley Matthews’s vineyard in literature
as time matures its wine.
RONALD McCUAIG.
Glassop Rides Again .
Lawson Glassop’s Lucky Palmer
(Shepherd Press) is the first novel he has
published since We Were the Rats, which
was the subject of a prosecution in New
South Wales. It is an example of
the anomalies of censorship that, while
it was considered menacing to state the
simple truth that some of a group of
soldiers in Tobruk longed for women,
there is not the remotest likelihood of
the authorities objecting to a novel en-
tirely concerned with racing: though the
noble tribe of horses might well be con-
sidered a more serious menace to the
national welfare than the ladies of Cairo.
Perhaps it should hastily be stated in
case some policeman who has “never
heard of Shelley” pricks up his ears, that
Mr. Glassop’s Lucky Palmer is, in fact, a
very unlucky Palmer who is kept per-
petually broke by his gambling, and is
also not interested in women. The novel
is socially impeccable.
But literary criticism is not concerned
with the sociological deductions that may
be drawn from the book, but only with
whether or not it is a good novel: and,
as it happens, Lucky’s continuous bad
luck is rather a pity from the literary
viewpoint. While it is a fact that some
gamblers never make money, it is also a
fact that others make thousands ; and it
would be much more exciting if, instead
of continually going up in the world and
then down in the world, as if he were
racing from one end to the other of a
see-saw. Lucky Palmer made really big
money, as does one of the bookmakers
briefly mentioned in the novel as a minor
character, and then either kept it and
made a “success” novel or lost it in one
great crash and made a drama.
If he is not to ma*ke big money, Lucky
might still have been interesting if he had
been the sort of engaging rogue one meets
in O. Henry’s stories and in Lawson’s
“Steelman and Smith” yarns. But as. Mr.
Glassop has drawn him, a tight-lipped,
unemotional fellow with his conversa-
tion practically restricted to the two words
“Yeah, sure!” he may be plausible as a
type, but he is not a type on which to
base a novel.
One sees Mr. Glassop, desperately
searching for someone who will take an
impassioned interest in Lucky’s career,
picking up character after character to
follow his fortunes —first a fat, likeable,
beery man, too seldom on stage, who
admires him when he is a tough small
boy and becomes his clerk when he is a
bookmaker; then a girl who Confines
herself to disapproving of his gambling;
then an ancient and adoring Mr. Grey
of infantile mentality—and what Mr.
Glassop has tried to conceal from hipi-
self by these devices is that he himself
is not really interested in his hero.
What he is interested in, and what
should interest readers who know the
racing world and readers to whom it is a
mystery, is, firstly and briefly, the owners,
trainers, bookies, urgers, gamblers and
horses Lucky encounters on his pilgrim-
age, and, secondly and principally, the
anecdotes and pictures of the racing world
which —with documentary rather than fic-
tional intention —Mr. Glassop has set out
to tell and to paint.
In the opening chapters, when Lucky is
a boy and when, because of some fire and
force in his character, afterwards dimmed,
the novel looks as if it is going to be
alive as a drama of character, there are
excellent documentary pictures of betting
in a billiard-saloon, of a robust sergeant
of police who raids the place, and of an
open-air gambling fiesta when the betters
adjourn to the bush.
Thereafter, while the fictional interest
dwindles to a thin trickle of domestic and
financial bothers, the documentary writ-
ing continues to hold attention. There is
a history of Phar Lap ; a story of a
bookmaker who had to welsh when
Wotan won the cup; a useful note on
how, being broke, it is possible to sneak
into a racecourse without paying; a pic-
ture of a racing identity who “reads” the
books of the day by studying the blurbs;
a moment of drama when Lucky accepts
bets from a policeman and can’t pay the
£76 he owes him ; a glimpse of a boxer
whose smile “hung in the air as if his
cauliflower ears were pegs holding it to
an invisible line” ; a pathetic story of an
old jockey, his mentality shattered by a
fall, who still thinks he has won the race
in which he crashed ; a fine description—
when Lucky at last becomes an owner —
of the horses at their early morning work-
out in the fog; a lively account of an
evening at the home of wealthy gamblers,
from which Lucky returns home too
drunk to know that he has won some
hundreds of pounds at poker; a typical
“spieler” story about making a few quid
by tuning the pianos of the gullible ; a
comprehensive and mercifully compre-
hensible vocabulary of racing argot
scattered through the text —“Whenever he
went for the big dish he got beat a skull,”
for instance; and—the best scene in the
book—a vivid description of Lucky’s
night at a two-up school in Sydney:
They walked up to the crowd. Four
bright lights with shades over them were
shining into the ring and blackout boards
covered the windows. Forms had been
placed to make a square, and a sheet of
canvas covered the floor between them.
Men were sitting on the forms, with two
rows of men standing behind them.
There were little piles of notes and silver
in front of many men, and some had five
piles. A short, fat, red-faced man standing
near the edge of'the ring, holding thf kip,
a small, rectangular piece of wood, cried,
“Are yous all set, gents?” He wore no
coat, and silver armbands held up the
sleeves of his brightly-striped shirt. He was
smoking a cigar, and kept pulling out a
handkerchief and mopping his gleaming
bald head. A red silk handkerchief knotted
loosely around his neck caught the sweat
as it ran down the folds of his fat throat.
“0.K.!” he cried, “I’m bringin’ him in!”
He handed the kip to the spinner, a tall,
mournful-looking man with his double-
breasted vest open down the front, placed
two pennies, tails up, on it with infinite
care, and said “Fair go!”
All this is good raw material. The
finished article might have been a Nat
Gould romance, an O. Henry picaresque,
a sociological study in petty squalor and
misery, a drama of war-time and post-war
extravagance, a serious character-study
of the big men as well as the little men in
the racing game or, simply, a straight-
forward documentary such as lon Idriess
might write about the pearling or opal
industries. Mr. Glassop’s book is each
of these by turns; but as a whole none of
them. Loosely strung together in chap-
ters which have no sure place in the
sequence, it reads as if he was never quite
certain what sort of book he wanted to
write; except that he was determined to
relate the racing anecdotes that had fas-
cinated him.
How Good Is Gielgud?
The critic, who sees for three or four
hours a play which actors and producer
have been studying for three or four
months, must often wonder what intelli-
gent actors think of his remarks about
their performances ; so it must be con-
soling to the critic who reads John
Gielgud’s Early Stages, first published in
1939, and now reissued by Falcon Press,
to find that this very intelligent actor
doesn’t know, either:
It is nonsense to say that one is always
the best judge of one’s own acting. How
many actors imagine they were giving their
best performances on a night when they
were afterwards told by the producer that
they were playing particularly badly!
To this he appends a footnote:
Ellen Terry says, speaking of this: “ ‘We
all know when we are doing our best,’ said
Henry (Irving) once. ‘We are the only
people who know.’ Yet he thought he did
better in Macbeth than in Hamlet. Was
he right after all?”
Now, Mr. Gielgud thinks he does
better in Hamlet. It is a part to which
he has devoted a great deal of thought,
and his account of his first appearance
in it, at the Old Vic in 1929, is only a
fraction of what he has written about it;
yet take what the audience was supposed
to get from that performance;
I knew I must act in a broad style, that
I must be grander, more dignified and
noble, more tender and gracious, more
bitter and scathing, than was absolutely
natural —that I must not be as slow as I
jhould be if I were really thinking aloud,
/hat I must drive the dialogue along at a
regular moving pace, and, above all, that
every shade of thought must be arranged,
behind the lines, so that nothing should
be left to chance
Alas, the only memory the present
reviewer has of all these good intentions,
after Gielgud’s performance of “Hamlet”
which was to have closed down the old
Lyceum Theatre in 1939, is of a frantic
and flapping adolescent, a flat delivery
of the great soliloquy, a too-charming
address to the players (possibly because
this was to be the last night of Irving’s
theatre) and the excellence and beauty of
Fay Compton as Ophelia.
In short, one agreed with the managers
who until 1928, he complains, “thought
of me chiefly as a ‘type’ for neurotic,
rather hysterical young men.” But at the
Globe Theatre, London, 1939, against a
background of quilted white sqtin con-
trived by the clever group of women who
make scenes as “The Motleys,” you could
feel certain that Wilde’s greatest comedy,
“The Importance of Being Ernest,” had
found ih John Gielgud its most perfect
John Worthington. Time seems to have
established him in this role. During his
tour of Canada and the United States in
1947, Gielgud played only “Love for
Love” and “The Importance of Being
Ernest.”
And yet, in his book, he makes no
mention at all of the problems of “The
Importance of Being Ernest.” True, the
book ends at 1936, and his only season
as Worthington, up to that time, was in
1930. But it seems most probable that
Mr. Gielgud, like a woman more anxious
to be praised for her brains than her
beauty, is more willing to trot out the
immense amount of profound thought
and analysis which went into his failures
than to rest upon the laurels of his
instinctive and easy successes.
And this is a good thing, because it
provides us with some excellent talk
about the theatre by an actor and pro-
ducer who is never —or who presents
himself as being never —satisfied, even
with himself; worried by his walk in
1921 ; horrified at “the vulturine grimaces
on my face, and the violent and affected
mannerisms of my walk and gestures”
when he saw his first film in 1934;
anxious about “discipline”:
A long run, with continual good houses,
gives the actor confidence and sureness in
his technique; he is able to try many
different ways of timing, to study the details
of tone and inflection, to watch his manner-
isms.... He is forced to control his bore-
dom, to discover a means of producing
effects of emotion of which the spon-
taneous feeling has long since deserted
him.
An always-venturing spirit, moreover,
among Oxford experiments and the novel
settings of Komisarjevsky, of whom he
has much to say; who, having become a
star in neurotic-young-men parts, turned
his back on big money and went to the
Old Vic to learn more about acting ; who
was no sooner established as an actor
than he began as producer, producing in
one theatre and acting in another, back-
ing flop after flop, but succeeding with
“Richard of Bordeaux” —it was not
merely by being “one of the Terrys” that
he got to the front rank of the English
theatre.
Still, the family came in handy. For
instance, during the long run of “The
Good Companions,” “a veteran actor
ruined my lines by walking upstage of
and standing against the backcloth.”
What simpler, when remonstrations
failed, than to go to lunch with Uncle
Fred Terry?:
Uncle Fred pronounced his verdict
grandly, as if it were the correct reading
of some obscure phrase in the classics:
“Walk in front of him while he’s speaking,
my boy. He’ll have to come down level
with you then so that the audience can
see him.” Next night I did as I was told,
with immediate and gratifying result.
Such observations —and the book is
full of them —are surely most helpful to
actors and producers. For instance, what
Mrs. Patrick Campbell told him when
they were rehearsing Ibsen’s “Ghosts”:
In the scene where Oswald tells his
mother of his terrible disease, she said,
“Keep still. Gaze at me. Now, you must
speak in a Channel-steamer voice. Empty
your voice of meaning and speak as if
you were going to be sick. Pinero once
told me this and I have never forgotten it.”
Again, in a discussion of the qualities
of Herbert Menges as writer of incidental
music:
Herbert always maintains that audiences,
during the action of the play, only listen
to music if it is played without the curtain
coming down.
These, and the inside stories of the
production of “Richard of Bordeaux” or
“Hamlet” —the Motleys making all the
dresses of canvas, “but trimmed with
silk and velvet and with rich autumnal
colors patterned on to them with a paint
spray” so that they would have “the rich,
worn look so difficult to obtain on the
stage” are real and satisfying.
But is Gielgud a great Hamlet? Many
critics say so ; he seems to wish to believe
it, but only succeeds in explaining it
away. Irving knew. Irving was “the
only one who knew.” But Gielgud is
different, not because he is less intelligent,
but probably because he is more intelli-
gent ; and in this he represents his age,
to which illusion is more something to be
analysed than to be kept as a mystery,
and to which art is more the fluid pro-
gress of the artist than the one play,
poem, picture or concerto set in its
frame. Unable to convince others with
an illusion in which he cannot quite
bring himself to believe, the modern
artist falls back on his own integrity ;
this is what he shows us as he discards
experiment after experiment, and this is
the most admirable quality in John
Gielgud’s book.
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 13
(CRYPTIC TYPE.)
Across.
I—A £ick heart is evident in the
poems of the palace. (10)
s—Pan’s son knows what the oppo-
site of direct current is. (4)
9 —a week-end joint, perhaps, is
behind schedule to make bills
acts. (9)
11— Are with a famous range in the
country. (5)
12— Out of bed by the superior? (5)
14— Giant’s offspring has many notes.
(4, 5)
15— Haste with the rodent, I see, is
sacerdotal. (8)
18 — Pronoun. (3)
19 — Marsh returns with an American
sailor. (3)
21 — Our French prodigal, perhaps,
since he returns. (3)
22 Vessel to vex the east beast of
burden. (8)
24 —Is it wise to squabble for the
growth of the wild west? (4, 5)
26 — 24 across, in India, might be
what this fellow uses to clean
his teeth or tidy his clothes. (5)
27 — Possessed a ring to marry about
the north. (5)
28 — The matter already mentioned is
about to quit in an extreme fog.
(9)
(Solution in next issue .)
31— X. (4)
32 An authoress named George is
upset by essays on soap and
such-like. (10)
Down.
2 —Original girl. (3)
G —Ancients’ donkey shows first why
I am in the Australian fleet’s. (9)
4—French bed is set on fire. (3)
6 Scottish johnnies follow the
motor-trail into the mountains.
(ID
7 Sarah is giving a talk somewhat
saucily. (5, 8)
8— —Dress up and boast about it. (4)
9 When the cows guffaw it is
probably directed at somebody
like this. (8, 5)
10 —River weight fo,und with extreme
ease. (4)
13— Droop among the gifts of such
publicity experts. (5, 6)
14— Vessel or the place for confining
its criminal seamen. (4)
16— Gear the century and go up. (3)
17 — Not altogether wrong of Henry
to rise above such terror. (4, 5)
20—He began decomposing in 1750.
(4)
23—Collar a trump perch. (4)
25 —A young flower and a city freed
of pest. (4)
29 — Japanese sash. (3)
30 — Born in France. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 12.


aer
MARS
■ lathe
aer
Outstanding features of “Mars”
Machine Tools are: —
ACCURACY Built to recog-
nized and certified standards of
accuracy. BALANCE All
necessary revolving parts are
Dynamically Balanced. FINISH
All surfaces are Machine
Ground. MATERIALS - Finest
Matured High Test Alloy Cast-
ings throughout. SMOOTH
RUNNING—AII Gear Teeth are
generated. VERSATILITY
All lathes have generous De-
tachable Gap Bridge. “MARS”
Lathe Lead Screws are cut from
a certified and tested Master
Lead Screw.
The “HERCULES”
st-inch Lathe
"The little GIANT of the
Lathe World''
Here is a small lathe which
has all the facilities of a
larger lathe plus GUARAN-
TEED and certified accuracy
to finest commercial limits.
Ideal for Garage use.
Other “MARS”
Products
!10-inch and 11-inch
'Lathes, Plain and Uni-
versal Milling Ma-
chines, Universal Divid-
ing Heads, Radial Drills,
Shapers.
Mill
* n!*
i
I ■>
■SKI d
I ■ ■■ ;
mm' :
1
r S :
i;
: ■
SH
H
• v ■•; ;
Sm
■
\ .
V
■
■ - :•;./.
■■
'
mm
’ w S f ■
v *
The “MARS”
6-inch Lathe
The "Mars" 6-Inch Lathe enables
you to carry out a host of small
jobs and so save your bigger
lathe for the bigger work. The
"Mars" 6-inch Lathe is capable,
of fine work at high speed
The New
“APOLLO”
7 *inch Lathe
A sturdy, accurate,
quick-action lathe suit-
able for very fine work
and also for medium
and roughing out work
within the lathe's capa-
city.
Licensed Manufacturers in Queensland
of “MEEHANITE” IRONS
The “ATLAS”
8-inch Long-
Bed Lathe
(6ft. between centres)
An ideal High-Speed,
General Purpose Work-
shop Lathe equipped
with internal Unit
Drive. 2-speed Gear-
box, Hollow Spindle
& Swing through Gap.
ASK FOR FULL SPECIFICATIONS <AND PRICES
DISTRIBUTING AGENTS: NSW.: Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
and Gibson Battle & Co. Pty. Ltd., Sydney. Vic.: Herbert Osborne,
Engineer, 567-9 Little Bourke Street (near King Street), Melbourne.
S.A.: M. S. McLeod Ltd., Adelaide. W.A.: The Western Machinery
Co. Ltd., Perth. Tas.: Charles Davis Ltd., Hobart
Sales Representative:
C. Evans, c/- Bank of N.S.W., Port Moresby, Papua.
m
2^
-3ft v -
m
i.
i
I
«>
8
©
$
©
©
ssm li
M
MAKING THE WIDEST RANGE OF MACHINE TOOLS IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE
s
MACHINE TOOL
M ANFG. CO. PTY. LTD.
BRIDGES!. VALLEY BRISBANE
J. & O’S. Advert.
