

CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY
A PRODUCT OF THE
M
m
HOUSE
OF SEP
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 70—No. 3616
Wednesday, June 1, 1949
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
r F'HE ruins of Byland Abbey, situated
near the village of Coxwold, between
Thirsk and Helmsley, ranks high amongst
the Cistercian Abbeys of Yorkshire.
The story of its foundation is one of
many vicissitudes. In 1134 twelve monks
under Gerold, their Abbot, left the Abbey
of Furness, in Lancashire, which then
belonged to the Order of Savigney, to
found a new monastery. Their journey
was interrupted by an invasion of the
country by David, King of Scotland, and
they set out again, this time for York,
with all their worldly goods piled in a
wagdn drawn by eight oxen. On their
way they came to Thirsk, where they were
shown great hospitality by Lady Gun-
dreda, who, in order to end their wander-
ings, settled them at Mode, By 1143 their
numbers and possessions had become too
large for the. existing site, so Roger de
Mowbray, son of Lady Gundfeda, moved
them to a site in Ryedale, near the Cis-
tercian Abbey of Rievaulx. Here they
remained for five years until difficulties
arose owing to the nearness of the two
foundations ; every hour of the day and
night, it is recorded, the one could hear
the bells of the other, which they con-
sidered highly unsatisfactory. In 1147,
therefore, they set out again across the
moor and settled at Stocking. In that
year the Order of Savigney was absorbed
into the Cistercian Order and Byland be-
came a Cistercian house. Finally, in
1177, forty years after leaving Furness,
they moved for the last time to the
present site.
In the early 12th century Byland was
the largest Cistercian Church in England
built in accordance with a single design,
being 328 feet in length and 135 feet wide
across the transepts. The diameter of
the great rose window was 26 feet: it was
the largest circular window in Britain.
The noblest features of Byland Abbey
are the wealth of late 12th- and 13th-
century coloured tiles which decorated
the floor, the superb carving on the nave
capitals now preserved in the temporary
museum on the site. In 1322 an invading
Scottish force defeated and almost cap-
tured King Edward II at Shaw’s Moor,
near Byland.
Newburgh Hall in the vicinity contains
a coffin which, it is alleged, preserves the
headless body of Oliver Cromwell.
RARE BEAUTY AND INTEREST CENTER AROUND BYLAND ABBEY.


w
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE .
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 149 .
fork ytwwe neatt fa i
in chassis J.*'^’ :
aumws wuwm
ty Georoe Malcolm* Sm/th- i
m
The farcical misadventures ol a
man who switched bodies with a
stranger.
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney:
S/S/iKESPSAKE y/Wg PPJFSS *
The Red Page
FOUR EXPLORERS.
Geoffrey Rawson’s Desert Journeys
(Cape; Australasian Publishing Co.) is
a complicated narrative, and to travel
through it with any degree of comfort
one needs a map, a good memory and
a camel.
Mr. Rawson should have supplied the
map. He prints, it is true, as many as
seven of them, but these show Australia
about the size of a packet of cigarettes
and the area in the Westralian desert
in which his hordes of explorers keep
finding more desert and losing the reader
is half the size of a thumbnail. What is
needed is one large map—a folded inset
or end-papers running across both pages
—in which is marked, in inks of different
colors or in readily-distinguishable lines,
the paths followed by Gosse, Giles, For-
rest and Warburton. If the book runs
to a second edition something on the
lines of the map in J. C. Beaglehole’s
Exploration of the Pacific should be
printed.
The publishers, if not Mr. Rawson,
should have supplied something of the
good memory, too ; for the jacket states
“Here are the narratives of three ex-
plorers who in the year 1873-74 simul-
taneously and independently attempted
to cross the desert interior of Western
Australia,” but one finds that, in fact,
Mr. Rawson deals with four explorers.
Though he has only a short chapter on
Gosse, so that the jacket announcement
is broadly correct, the statement does
tend to increase the confusion of the book.
The author’s memory, on the other
hand, is too active for the reader to keep
pace with him. His explorers keep cross-
ing and recrossing each other’s tracks
until one has the impression that one
is following not three or four but forty-
four sunburnt wanderers. Though some
confusion was hardly to be escaped here,
seeing that the tracks did cross, and
though Mr. Rawson has made some
attempt to sort them out, there could
have been a stronger effort to clarify the
situation —at least a more helpful intro-
ductory chapter—and Mr. Rawson should
certainly have refrained from confusing
time as well as space.
Wherever possible he has followed the
admirable practice of allowing the ex-
plorers to speak for themselves by means
of quotations from their journals or re-
ports, but he has somewhat offset this
advantage by paraphrasing from their
narratives in advance or of quoting a
passage in advance and then later re-
peating it; so that on page 202, for in-
stance, we have Warburton saying:
Our situation is becoming very serious
owing to our want of provisions. If we
press forward we run the risk of losing our
camels and dying of thirst; if we stand
still, we can only hope to prolong our lives,
as God may enable us, on sun-dried camel
flesh.
And on page 207, because the author,
not the explorer, is given to repetition,
we have Warburton saying:
Our condition is indeed becoming very
serious owing to our want of provisions.
We are placed in this dilemma: if we press
forward, we run the chance of losing our
camels
And this is doubly confusing: first be-
cause the reader inevitably feels that he
is travelling the ground and living the
days twice over, and secondly because
in the paraphrases, which are printed
in quotation-marks, there are minor
textual differences from the later
quotations from the journal, so that one
receives the totally erroneous impressions
that the explorer repeated himself, and
repeated himself incorrectly.
But then—one requires a camel. And
that, at last, and after a brief pause to
note some aridity and lack of distinction
in the style—one wishes that Mr. Rawson
would not say “the die is cast” so often,
and that he could avoid such terms as
“scion of a noble family” and “tender
age of 12”—is a tribute to Desert Jour-
neys; for the book is, after all, exciting
as well as confusing. It deals with some
great adventurers who will live immor-
tally in Australian history, and Mr.
Rawson has a warm and warming re-
sponse to the heroic deeds he records.
Because of this warmth, and because of
his modest method of quotation, the
reader travels with him as he travels with
the explorers, and it is not for the diffi-
culties of the book but for the appalling
difficulties of the desert that one requires
a sturdier mount than an armchair.
Briefly, the situation from which Mr.
Rawson sets forth is this: in 1872 the
Overland Telegraph has been opened,
facilitating the exploration of the un-
known west; South Australia is anxious
to find a route to the western seaboard,
and Western Australia (possibly with
some reservations) is interested in a route
to the east; Baron von Mueller is eager
to inspire exploration, and the wealthy
pastoralists Elder and Hughes are willing
to help finance it.
So William Gosse sets out from Char-
lotte Waters for Perth, and Warburton
from Alice Springs for the same des-
tination ; Giles, who had explored the
desert the previous year, also sets out to
cross from east to west and, arriving at
Mt. Olga, where his “real journey” is
to begin, finds Gosse’s tracks, “tres-
passing” in his territory; and Forrest, in
1874, when the news has come through
that Gosse had been forced back by the
desert, that Warburton had reached the
west coast but far in the north and,
finally, that Giles has been blocked by
the desert, sets off in the opposite direc-
tion, to cross from Perth to the east,
and, helped in the latter part of his jour-
ney by coming on the tracks of Giles and
Gosse, struggles successfully to the tele-
graph line with “long and continued
cheers from our little band as they be-
held at last the goal to which we have
been travelling for so long.”
Gosse’s journey, which was compara-
tively easy, and which Gosse wisely termi-
nated as soon as he was faced with in-
superable difficulties, lacks the drama of
the other ventures, and possibly that is
why Mr. Rawson devotes little space to it.
All the other stories are memorable be-
cause they were struggles not only against
the desert but against the imminent threat
of death.
In the Giles narrative, after the moment
of dismay when he comes upon Gosse’s
tracks, there is country like this: “T
entered upon country where the triodia
[spinifex] had all been but recently burnt.
I travelled over miles and miles of burnt,
stony, brown, gravelly undulations; at
every four or five miles I obtained a
view of similar country beyond.” There
is water in an aboriginal well so foul that
to smell it made him sick; a Christmas
dinner, interrupted by an attack from
the blacks, of fried wallaby, two pump-
kins from Gosse’s camp and a bottle of
rum, eaten and drunk in a temperature
of 106 degrees ; horses falling exhausted
from thirst and heat to die where they
lay ; the aborigines, when Giles advances
upon them pointing his revolver, think-
ing that he was pointing his finger at
them and, in simple retaliation, pointing
their own fingers at the explorer; the
terrible story of the loss of one of his
companions, Gibson, who, walking to
bring help from the main camp when he
and Giles were in trouble on a reconnais-
sance, left the track and followed into the
wilderness the tracks of two horses that
had been turned loose —nothing was ever
seen again of Gibson or the horses ; and
a picture of Giles himself, staggering
back to camp on that same dreadful
occasion, picking up a small dying wal-
laby whose mother had thrown it from
her pouch and eating it raw, “dying as
it was, fur, skin and all. The delicious
taste of that creature I shall never for-
get.”
Warburton’s story is, largely, a de-
scription of boiled camel. It is also the
story of a veteran of 61 —a British soldier
who had seen service in India and who
had afterwards been Adelaide’s Police
Commissioner —struggling through hard-
ships that might well have killed a far
younger man. Odd accidents happened to
him —he slept with his pistol under his
head and one night it exploded. He was
plagued by ants —the stinging black ants
of the desert which C. P. Mountford re-
cently described in his Brown Men and
Red Sand —so that, day or night, he could
get no rest: “I cannot stay under a bush
but am compelled in sheer despair to
throw myself on ttie burning sand and
let the sun pour down upon me.”
But above all there are his camels, in-
finitely superior to Giles’s horses, but a
constant heartache and a frequent
stomach-ache: how the “master camel”
sickens and loses his command, so that
the young bulls drive the cows off into
the desert; how “a camel looks a large
animal but gives very little meat com-
pared with a bullock” ; how “we have had
our last boiling of bones but got nothing
to eat off them, and the water they are
boiled in is not so palatable as plain
water”; how, after 48 hours’ continuous
boiling, the hide is edible —“very good”
on December 1, but, reconsidered on
December 23, tasting and smelling “so
exactly like a carpenter’s glue-pot it
makes us sick” ; and how, at last, on
the final stages of the journey to the
precarious safety of the Oakover River,
“I became so ill this afternoon that I
was quite unable to sit on the camel and
had to be tied at full-length on the
animal’s back. What a jolting I got, as
the long-legged animal took me head-
foremost down the steep sandhills.”
The Forrest narrative is more like the
chapter on Gosse, swift, compact and
conveying an impression of the ex-
plorer’s cool efficiency. It is pleasing as
a story of success among so much gallant
failure, and more pleasing still as a
glimpse of a great statesman in his ener-
getic and patriotic youth. Forrest’s out-
look on the aborigines, though, like Giles,
he was attacked by them and compelled
“in all humility” to fire on them, is
noticeably humane by contrast with the
outlook of Giles, to whom they were
“wretches,” and that of Warburton, who,
when a “hideous, howling old hag” re-
fused to guide him to the natives’ rare
and precious wells, tied her thumbs be-
hind her back and haltered her by the
neck to a tree and then commented, “She
had been of no use to us and her sex
alone saved her from punishment.”
These are all interesting and import-
ant stories, and, in spite of the occasional
awkwardness of his method, Mr. Rawson
has done well to assemble them in the
one volume. So extensive are the quota-
tions that the book has the native vitality
of an original document, and, as a con-
trast to the “popular” histories that are
usually written in Australia, it is a great
relief to come across an author who
thinks that his subject is more important
than himself.
Cockatoos.
See, in the morning, white, like angels
come
All sulphured from the sun
To plume with light this heaven-seeking
tree,
The birds return ;
And burn a moment in a fume of mist.
They turn and are gone
Leaving an image hooded on my wrist
Gripping ths bone.
And blood leaps up. There, let the bird,
hawk.
Go and bring words now
That I, in winter season, may fruit and
make
This book a bough.
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL.
To Chill the Spine.
Ray Bradbury’s Dark Carnival
(Hamish Hamilton) is a set of stories all
written with the amiable intention of
frightening the wits out of the reader;
and in this Mr. Bradbury is more than
usually successful. He is a young
American writer of whom, if he does not
fly away on a broomstick, more will be
heard.
The mildest of his stories deal with
witches and warlocks and seem, partly,
to be based on the celebrated witch-trials
of Salem. Mr. Bradbury is not particu-
larly terrifying when he has dozens of
winged beings arriving at an American
country house for a witches’ sabbath but,
rather, curious and interesting, as if he
were a naturalist writing about bats.
One does not so much share the fears of
a normal small boy in a family of
demons as enjoy Mr. Bradbury’s account
of the strange powers of a girl who,
lying upstairs in malicious trance, is able
to enter the boy’s body and make him
talk with her voice and fly with her
wings.
The largest of Mr, Bradbury’s war-
locks, possibly intended to represent the
Devil in his latter-day decline, is an Uncle
Einar, and Mr. Bradbury is engagingly
humorous about this gentleman: on one
occasion having him shot down by a
gunner who mistakes him for an aero-
plane and showing him in more-or-less
respectable old age reduced to taking
short flights about the countryside to dry
the washing for his peasant wife.
Sometimes, too, the macabre effect is
softened by the O. Henry type of trick
ending; which, though it may be meant
to plunge the reader from daylight back
to nightmare, leaves him with the im-
pression that he has been watching not
black magic but only a conjuring-trick:
the story, for instance, in which Mr. and
Mrs. Whetmore have to sleep in a hotel
bedroom with a tombstone and at the
end of which it appears that the sepul-
chral voices which the wife has feared
and the husband has scorned may really
have been sepulchral.
But Mr. Bradbury has other methods
of getting the effect of horror: he uses
the device, familiar in Poe and
Maupassant, of portraying characters
who are the victims of insane obsessions,
so that even if one is amused at witches
and unaffected by tombstones, and if one
can regard the hallucinations detachedly,
the madness remains nerve-shaking.
Two highly effective stories in this vein
are “The Wind,” in which a man is
haunted by the belief that the wind is
composed of the voices and the invisible
phantoms of the dead—people it has
killed to give itself intelligence and,
after frantic telephone-calls for help, is
killed by a cyclone ; and “Skeleton,” in
which a Mr, Harris becomes obsessed by
the idea that he has a skeleton inside
him as of course he has and, against
this bony demon, wages desperate war.
Mr. Bradbury —to pay him the hack-
neyed compliment of book-reviewers
should undoubtedly be watched.
Gulls at Pareora.
/ can approach the gulls on the beach
walking along where the shingle is sloped
steeply, is wet and black, or I can trudge
where the dry stones are level,
where the lion-maned logs lie buried and
turn sharp right, down to the waves,
and approach the gulls that way. Which-
ever way
I dp they leave me with my aura
around me, my magical circle,
into which no timid thing enters. They
run ahead of me as I walk and the flock
lifts in a sheet and flies right over my
head
to settle again on the shingle behind me.
Every time I march downstairs
the white flock parts
in two. We keep our distance. Farther
out on the sea itself they float
like corks and boxes, flotsam
come out of a ship, and up they go and
down they go
all together on the sea.
N.Z.
W. HART-SMITH.
Bad Ends,
Detective stories go by publishers; and
the Bodley Head has not, yet reached the
eminence of Gollancz or Cassell, but
connoisseurs think this firm may have a
good foundation-stone in Christianna
Brand.
Her fifth crime. Death of Jezebel, be-
gins well enough to make you want to be-
lieve this ; a bright satire at the expense
of the producers of a pageant at an ex-
hibition of household appliances, with a
wicked and desirable murderee, a glow-
ing, plump and curved creature who is
thrown from the window from which, as
Queen of the Exhibition, she was to sur-
vey her 11 mounted knights in armor.
But in deciding which of the 11 knights
or the people behind the stage is respon-
sible, Miss Brand runs a series of games
of chess, each to make you think a
different character is the murderer, and
so involved that before the last two or
three games the reader doesn’t care who
“done it.”
To end a detective novel clearly and
convincingly seems the hardest part of
the writing, as is shown in another book
from the same publishers, The Lift and
the Drop, by G. V. Galwey. Mr. Gal-
wey’s murderer makes a good job of
dropping a lift several floors, and his
story has the extra novelty that the
detective must decide which of the people
who died in the crash was intended to
be murdered. But the end of all this
careful study of lift mechanism and rail-
way timetables and a really excellent
scene of navy-disposal landing-craft adrift
on a river during a cyclone is a cross
between a spy story and a gangster
thriller —Matthew Arnold would not have
found it in keeping, or, as he remarked
at the end of his essay on Heine, “many
begin well, many show signs of running
well . . . many are called, few chosen.


‘TRUTH ®IN ADVERTISING”
NTHONY HORDERNS’
fpll (l
I—l
m
raa
r '"ii —i
OS
\
■
%
/“
M I
.7 id'-V
HH
f\
■
SBS
i
>v
too
v
d-
\ M)/:
■
[JO
■ ■
V^-
3MB
. d:J
xti
m
ma
':■>
ii
Ssii
m
- m
Left , Fancy silk-lined case
containing six Afternoon
Pastry Forks. 30/- case.
Left. Fancy plastic
presentation case,
containing six
Afternoon Tea Spoons,
plain design. 13/6,
/
//
i
i
Le/h Polished Royal Canteen con-
taining eight each Robert F.
Mosley’s “Rusnorstain” table,
dessert knives; eight each James
Dixon’s A 1 E.P.N.S. table, dessert
forks, dessert, soup, teaspoons;
three table spoons; three-piece
Robert F. Mosley’s “Rusnorstain”
meat carvers. 62 pieces. £2B/5/-.
For the hostess of tomorrow
"SENECA”
Pattern Community Plate
“Gem of the Forest” Canteen
The essence of graceful living . . . embodied in Cutlery of
everlasting beauty. Comprises six each Robert F. Mosley’s
“Rusnorstain” table and dessert knives; J|
three-piece carving set; six each Community Plate
“Seneca” pattern E.P.N.S. A 1 quality
table, dessert forks; dessert, soup, tea spoons;
two table spoons. 47 pieces. £2l/9/6,
iiiii
ii
Spoons and Forhs hy Mosley
Below, left.
“Long Life” E.P.N.S. A 1 Spoons and Forks.
Table Forks, 30/- half doz.;
Dessert Forks, 23/- half doz.;
dessert Spoons, Soup Spoons, 23/- half doz.;
Spoons, 12/6 \ doz.; Table Spoons, 5/- ea.
Below. Crown A 1 Sheffield
stainless steel Meat Carvers,
complete in cardboard
box. 47/6 set.
Granton stainless steel
Utility Knife, suitable for
meat, bread. White
xylonite handle. 17/9 each.
me
m
W
*
I*2
■I
m
: :
I
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ SILVERWARE AND CUTLERY—PITT STREET PHONE:
M 2401 5 BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


The Bulletin
Vol. 70—No. 3616
Wednesday, June 1,1949
ALL IN THE DAY’S WORK.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H, Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; 'Phone. 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
"WHEN THE BOUGH
BREAKS."
When Mr. Chifley “stands on his record”
before the electors his fate will depend
on their approval or disapproval of his
socialisation programme. Here, as in
Britain, the “Labor” Government will
have to seek a mandate to give rein to
its craze for dispossessing private enter-
prise in the national economy, with all
that is therein implied.
There is but cold comfort for our
Canberra fanatics from the*current pic-
ture of what is happening in Britain.
There the latest Cripps Budget of a few
weeks ago presented to the British nation
the ghastly prospect that under Socialist
rule there could be no possible relief
from a weight of taxation which is
throttling industrial effort among a people
already struggling against scarcity of
foodstuffs and inflated prices. Socialist
taxation takes over 40 per cent, of the
national income to be spent extrava-
gantly by the State, and withal there is
no assurance whatever against a break-
down of the whole silly experiment when
German export production gets under
way, as it soon will.
Stafford Cripps in April had hardly
delivered his depressing exposition of the
trend of national finances when every
critic in the land began to wake up to
the realisation that each hopeless Socialist
dawn was only the forerunner of an in-
terminable series of them. The annual
Government expenditure has now reached
£3826 millions, over five times that in
1938, when Britain was hastily rearming
for the coming World War II; and of
this appalling total two-fifths goes in food-
subsidies (£465 million) and social ser-
vices (£lOOO million). These two colossal
monuments of spending by themselves
amount to twice the Government’s total
expenditure in 1938. So urgently must
some check be called that the Chancellor
said food subsidies could not be allowed
to go higher and must *be reduced. But
social services, he added, would never
be cut down. On the contrary, they are
set to cost more with every passing year.
Thus the British “Labor” theorists.
They talk the same way in Canberra.
Their theme is that no political party dare
reduce these services—or check them,
either. “On and on in the socialistic
manner,” as Mr. Pollard has chanted, to
the Socialist (and Commyinist) millennium.
The old-age pensions in the Common-
wealth now amount to such an annual bill
that only the thriftless can be permitted
to receive them ; and, though the amount
doled out is being left far behind by the
basic wage, Mr. Chifley must close his
ears to all protests. What the so-called
“free” national health scheme will add
to the Government’s annual expenditure
frightens all business accountants. In
Australia Senator McKenna talks of a
mere £6,000,000 for “free” medicine and
£4,000,000 for “free” dental services.
The cost of social services in Britain is
now on the level (proportionate to popu-
lation) of £166,000,000 annually in Aus-
tralia, and, if “free” medical services be
reckoned roughly at half of that, any
elector can perceive the new burdens
which the Chifley Government is prepar-
ing with the McKenna legislation to put
upon taxpayers. It will be a permanent
burden —until the crash comes.
The reaction already beginning in
Britain cannot fail to be felt here and
for precisely the same reasons. If
world economy were static the
burden on an exhausted Britain,
staggering under the additional and un-
necessary load of Socialist disruption—
and on a far more prosperous Australia,
whose Government pretends it is suffi-
ciently rich to stand it —would still be
onerous enough. But the illusion of sol-
vency, supported actually on American
financial aid, cannot last in Britain be-
yond 1952, and American support of
Britain and Europe, although not visibly
extended to Australia, maintains some
sort of face for Socialist extravagance
here also, for “there is no mumbo-
jumbo,” as Mr. Chifley keeps on saying,
“about the shortage of dollars.” Be-
fore 1952, however, another development
threatens to hasten on the collapse of the
crazy Socialist structure. That is the
re-emergence of German export produc-
tion to compete with British exports in a
world starved for capital and consumer
goods, with these at crazy prices. Simul-
taneously with the efforts to restore Ger-
man heavy industries and all Continental
textiles comes the definite decision of the
United States Government to speed the
recovery of Japanese factories.
When these peoples, highly industrious
and of proven efficiency, re-enter world
markets the absurdly high prices ruling in
the absence of trading competition—along
with the easy working conditions and
short hours and soaring wages which
have inflated those prices—will not be
able to stand. In that day our mammoth
Government expenditures under the
socialistic order will collapse, too. And
the first cut, drastic and inevitable, will
be in those utterly wasteful “social ser-
vices” which the Crippses and the Chifleys
tell their people “will never be cut down.’
Any pretence that Socialist policy can
save them is so transparently stupid that
even the beneficiaries, or expectant bene-
ficiaries, do not sincerely believe it.
These “benefits” cannot be paid except
from taxation, which means essentially
taxation of the returns earned by com-
mercial industry ; and in Britain,, when the
first signs of a fall in monthly export
figures made themselves apparent, to treat
that as a temporary phenomenon could
not be risked. The British Cabinet, it
is reported, has ordered a review of the
national health scheme, and the proposals
now being formulated are expected, says
one newspaper’s political correspondent,
to include “a sixpenny tax (paid by the
patient) for each visit to a doctor, and
possibly some extra tax for optical and
dental treatment.”
The London “Daily Mail” says that
Britain’s dollar deficit “has been running
steadily at an average of £3O million
sterling monthly, and the need now is to
reduce by one-third a dollar deficit
which for 12 months has proved un-
yielding.”
The point which Australian electors
must take is that not the first draught
of the cold wind, but the mere anticipa-
tion of it, has turned Socialist Ministers
promptly to initiating means to reduce
costs of social services—those “bene-
fits” which Britain’s Socialist economic
dictator had just declared would never
be cut down.
While our own Socialists are whistling
to keep their courage up, and especially
are pondering long and deeply before
proclaiming that first-class revenue-
waster the National Health Act, with its
“free” medical services, Liberal-party
leaders ought to issue a plain warning to
the electors that when the balloon of
high prices is pricked the Socialist “free”-
health scheme must be doomed. Already
the oversanguine Mr. Pollard foresees a
wheat slump—it requires no great per-
spicacity—and the downward drift of
overseas metal prices has been consider-
able. The soaring receipts for wool,
which are playing old Harry with
meat prices, contain the seeds of
their own destruction; it would seem as
though nobody in “Labor” political
circles had ever heard of the despondency
caused before the late war by the in-
roads of artificial textiles upon the wool
custom. When German and Japanese
competition is felt again in the worsted
markets, and the European and Ameri-
can buyers have to cut their bidding in
accordance with the price of cloth, the
last refuge of Australian inflation —called
by the Socialists “the Golden Age”—will
be wiped out.
The duty of political parties is to edu-
cate the electors for these changes.
“Labor” may rate its chances at the elec-
tions on its refusal to do so, preferring
to tell the country that its prosperity is
Socialist-made and can by Socialists only
be preserved. Even at the cost of losing
some votes, it is the duty of the Liberal
and Country leaders to expose any such
hypocrisy and tell the electors the truth.
“In the long run,” said Mr. Menzies in
Parliament the other day, “the guaran-
tee of full employment is the develop-
ment of markets for our goods in other
parts of the world.”
This is the great issue which Mr.
Chifley proposes to dodge by (as he says)
promising nothing and “standing on his
record.”
Moscow Fails Again.
The “lifting” of the Berlin blockade has
got no one anywhere in particular. The
Western Allies this week were still operat-
ing their air-lift, and the Russians were
trying to accommodate themselves to
circumstances very strange to them, hav-
ing had experience only of government
by dictatorship.
The willingness of the Russians to
come to terms at all was a stratagem—
part of a plan to institute a “new line”
in the world revolution, about which a
manifesto has been issued.
The basic theory behind this not-so-
new system was that it is wrong to waste
effort in pushing a log downstream
when the water seems to be carrying it
quite satisfactorily. In other words, as
capitalist countries are obligingly bring-
ing about socialism, it is unnecessary to
overthrow their Governments by
violence as the first stage of Commun-
ism.
There is nothing “new” in this. It is
20 years since the Easter Conference of
the N. S. Wales A.L.P. issued a letter
in which it was stated that “whilst the
policy and methods of the A.L.P. and
the Communist party are at variance, the
objective of these parties is identical, i.e.,
the socialisation of industry.” And so
the Communist octopus, with Attlees,
Chifleys, McGirrs and others in power in
the British Commonwealth, Socialist-
dominated Governhients controlling
France and Italy and a Democrat Ad-
ministration in office in the United
States, is content to let events take
their course to a greater extent than
hitherto. The Soviet considers that
the Socialists are each building a nest in
which Communism can feel at home and
hatch the world revolution when Parlia-
mentary constitutions have been altered
along Socialist economic lines.
The Soviet would only interfere “if
capitalist reaction and violence forces the
builders of Socialism to fight for Social-
ism.” And “then,” say the Communists,
“fight we will.” Mr. Sharkey might have
been summing-up the present proceed-
ings when he wrote in his history of the
war-time acrobatics of his party:
Certainly the party changes its line, just
as Marx, Lenin and the Bolsheviks fre-
quently changed policy, but never the
ultimate aim, Socialism.
The “surrender” in Berlin was
accepted gladly by the Western
Allies because the air-lift was proving
expensive, and its success had been
limited.
It was equally suitable from the Rus-
sians’ point of view that the blockade
should be ended, upon terms, because they
discovered that they had miscalculated
the temper of the Western Allies, and par-
ticularly France and the small countries,
not to mention Western Germany, They
had bargained for many things, but not
for the swift arrangement of a basic
constitution for Western Germany,
which could be used as an awkward
prototype by* ambitious Germans in the
Eastern area under Russian control.
They had everything to lose by this con-
stitution becoming operative and start-
ing to work as a separate unit. And they
had much to gain by having a hand in
steering it into action.
The Russian Government’s appreciation
of the political and strategic importance
of a united Germany is probably keener
than that of the Western politicians, and
particularly those like Dr. Evatt. Russia
knows that it is the heart of European
thought, the source from which new
political ideas have mostly sprung—in-
cluding their own Marxism —in the past
century. They know that, united and
socialised, it might form the key to the
fate of the world revolution, since it con-
trols both fuel and inventive brain-
power on a scale denied to any other
Western continental nation. They are
not likely to leave it to the tutoring of
the West if they can help it.
Moreover, they must all along have
realised that the Eastern provinces of
Germany cannot live without the fuel
and metal industries of the West, and
that the internal water-communications
of Europe, so vitally important to its
economy, can only function properly
when there is no blockage within the
German area.
It is not, of course, likely that their
ambitions will work out as they hoped
and had some reason to expect. The
staple areas which they occupied in the
East were basically and historically
attached to the Social-Democrat and
National Liberal parties in the days be-
fore World War I —Saxony, Branden-
burg and a large area round Stettin and
the mouth of the Oder. This condition
of affairs seemed a hopeful basis for
modernisation of Socialist belief upon a
foundation of compromise. However,
it has scarcely worked out that way, be-
cause the Russians are at their worst
when attempting compromise. 1
Once a dictator always a dictator;
once a tommy-gun artist always a
tommy-gun artist. The real purpose and
nature of-the Kremlin shows through
the veneer in every external relationship
Thirty years of the preaching of hate, of
rule by means of the terror and the mid-
night execution and the slave-camp seem
to have made the rulers of Moscow a
little mad.
The manifestations of the policy of
the Soviet Union and its results are sadly
obvious in Berlin. Bent on winning the
workers of Germany with a view to im-
posing its own recipe for peace and unity,
it took the totalitarian way, with
disastrous results. It organised an elec-
tion in Eastern Germany to go with the
lifting of the blockade, and with the birth
of the Western German constitution and
its own discussions with the Western
Powers about united Germany’s future.
Had it held an election on Western lines,
with an open list of candidates, free
propaganda and voting, it would have
stood a fair chance of victory both with
its list of candidates and on its peace and
settlement plebiscite. But its “system”
made this impossible. It aimed, as in
Russia, to force a full and unanimous
vote for its single set of nominees and
for its own programme at the point of
the bayonet and the end of the tommy-
gun. It won only a victory which adver-
tised itself as a farce and filled the world
with cynical laughter, and every German
who was not a practising Communist with
sullen distrust.
A country which has been preaching
for 30 years that the strikebreaker is the
most loathsome creature born, k “scab,”
a pariah for whom the only place, in the
plain phrase of Solomon Losovsky, is “the
grave” has to go carefully when it has
strikes on its hands. Yet Russia’s Berlin
Administration, giving its first demonstra-
tion of what in Australia would be con-
sidered as a strike reduced to its lowest
common denominator, exhibited itself as
the embodiment of everything which the
Communist is supposed to anathematise,
everything which is supposed to make up
the definition of bestial Fascism.
It used the armed strike-breaker —
the hated “fink” —it used violence against
the strikers. It called out armed military
police.
At the very outset of the “new”
Berlin arrangement the U.S.S.R. seems
to have demonstrated as usual that it
belongs to a different world from the rest
of the nations, and to have killed most
of the high hopes of the West—so often
raised, so often fallen —that at last some-
thing might eventuate which would allow
the nations to live in peace and amity
with their great but violent and scheming
neighbor. Among the hopes that it has
killed is the one that it would be safe to
withdraw British-American forces from
Europe at this juncture, and also the
aspiration for a united Germany under
any system which might conceivably
meet the political principles of both sides.
Defence—in Two Places.
Mr. Nelson Lemmon, the Minister for
Works and Housing, let his head go last
Thursday when moving the second read-
ing of the Snowy Mountains Hydro-
electricity Bill in the Canberra Parlia-
ment. He visualised “great inland cities
[presumably Burrumbuttock, Tipdray
West and Euchapivy] supplied with cheap
power from underground stations virtu-
ally safe from attack.”
Their strategic value was clear —to Mr.
Lemmon: —
The 16 underground stations will be
scattered miles apart in inaccessible moun-
tain country and can be operated by a
handful of men. That is of the greatest
defence significance, and for that reason
the Commonwealth Government feels it
should carry out the hydroelectricity
scheme with the utmost vigor.
Now, if Mr. Lemmon could also
visualise highly-trained national-defence
forces there would be something in all
this. But Mr. Lemmon, like his leader,
seems to think that the matter of the
fighting can be left to a handful of
trained volunteers. He is kidding himself
if he thinks his Snowy River power-
stations are in country inaccessible to
modern armies or that his handful of
operators could hold them against a de-
termined enemy once it had forced a
landing. And, in the foreseeable future,
under the leadership of Mr. Lemmon’s
crowd, there will be nothing to stop the
landing.
Mr. Fraser, the Labor Prime Minister
of New Zealand, has different views. He
doesn’t believe in “push-button” defence
without adequately-trained men to back
it up. He told the N.Z. Labor party
that he wanted to introduce compulsory
military training. After long debate the
party agreed tb a referendum by 600 to
eight, and a referendum will be held. Mr,
Fraser promptly announced that he would
be “out leading the campaign for the
affirmative.” He further invited the con-
ference to give his Government power to
provide “adequate defence” for N.Z.
and Pacific areas and to make “the maxi-
mum contribution possible to the defence
of the British Commonwealth.”
If our “Labor” Prime Minister ever
entertained thoughts like that, or our
Federal “Labor” party ever thought about
putting conscription to the ,/people by
referendum, they would wonder what it
was they had eaten to give them such a
nightmare.


PLAIN ENGLISH
"Labor's" Electoral Plans.
“Redistribution” has become almost a
magic word in the ears of political
“Labor.” It almost seems as if the boys
feel that, although there are enough
friendly votes floating around to keep
them in office, a little redrawing of
boundaries is necessary to ensure that
the votes are canalised in the direction
where they will be most useful to The
Party,
Canberra set the ball rolling.
Under the Chifley Government’s scheme,
redistribution of electorates seems to
have been made a secondary matter to
redistribution of scats among sitting
members. With the number of Reps,
increased from 75 to 132 only a very
poorly-trained caucus man could miss
grabbing for himself a seat which at least
looks reasonably safe. While the map-
makers were busy tracing the new
boundaries several of the boys had some
anxious moments, but when the smoke
cleared away only Maxie Falstein
seemed to have been scratched. Per-
haps he was carrying too much weight.
Queensland “Labor” was next to get
busy with maps and statistics. Like
their Canberra colleagues, the Hanlons
plumped for more seats, but they com-
bined with the increase a sliding-scale
of vote-values under which seats in a
zone at present dominated by “Labor”
will have a quota of 4613 electors,
while for those in a zone divided more
evenly between “Labor” and the Op-
position the quota is to be 10,795. The
principle of giving the country districts
a higher ratio of representation in pro-
portion to population than the crowded
cities is more or less general in the elec-
toral systems of the States, but a dis-
parity of this degree is indefensible.
Mr. McGirr’s caucus is at present
browsing over redistribution plans for
New South Wales. With 90 members
in the Assembly, as against Queensland’s
62 and Canberra’s 75, they can hardly
claim that the House is undermanned,
so some other means must be found to
ensure that “Labor” gets the security of
tenure which caucus considers the elec-
tors should think it deserves.
Some of the boys have been howling
for abolition of the postal vote, and it
seems that this may go ; in its stead,
electoral officers will roam the electorates
collecting the votes of the sick, the halt
and the blind. This seems a futile move.
It will make no appreciable difference to
results, and it will rob Mr. McGirr of
his favorite excuse for losing by-elections
—a squeal that the Opposition has rigged
the postal votes.
In the matter of vote-ratio between
country and city the McGirrs do not
agree with the Hanlons. The reason lies
perhaps in the definition of “country.”
Queensland’s western and northern dis-
tricts are pocketed with solid little groups
of “Labor” voters whose interests do
not differ greatly from those of the in-
dustrialised cities. In New South Wales
“the country,” with a few notable ex-
ceptions, is more truly rural. It is cer-
tainly not over-represented in the present
Parliamentary set-up—Sydney and New-
castle have 48 seats, the rest of the State
42.
The first proposal was that city mem-
bers (Sydney and Newcastle) should be
increased to 56, with a corresponding
drop in the number of country members.
When this was put to caucus country
members took a very dim view of it, and
it was turned down. Next it was sug-
gested that the country should drop only
four seats —three to Sydney, one to New-
castle. By classifying Newcastle as
country, it could then be argued that city
and country were evenly represented—4s
seats to Sydney and 45 to Newcastle-and-
country. No one liked that plan much,
so some party wrangler suggested that
the real way out was to increase the size
of the House after all. First four new
seats were proposed, then six. This was
something all hands could agree to,
though mighty argument raged as to how
the new seats should be distributed.
Caucus gave it up and adjourned till
Monday. When this went to print the
shindy was stitf on, but it looked as if
Sydney would get all, or most, of the
bonus seats.
Youth and the Crown.
Princess Elizabeth’s address in Belfast
after Empire Day lent a special inspiration
to Empire Youth Sunday, celebrated
throughout the British Commonwealth.
In Melbourne and Brisbane thousands of
young people marched through the
streets; and a little up-country State
school won a competition among Vic-
torian schools to draw up a message to
Princess Elizabeth in recognition of her
stimulation of the movement two years
ago with her vow, made while in South
Africa, echoing that made for the first
Prince of Wales seven centuries ago:
I declare before you all that my whole
life, whether it be long or short, shall be
devoted to your service and in the service
of our great Imperial family.
But I shall not have the strength to carry
out this resolution alone, unless you join
in it with me, as I now invite you to.
“Our great Imperial family” is that de-
velopment of the Empire which Princess
Elizabeth hailed in the Belfast address.
“The Crown,” she declared, “is the focus
of unity, comradeship and moral
standards for the British people.”
We* shall spare no effort to promote
those ends which, however times may
change, are unchangeable... .Britain has
never yielded to force, but her aim is to
maintain her influence through goodwill
among the nations rather than in the empty
appearances of power and domination.
Whatever our failings, this is one virtue
that the men and women of our stock have
carried to every continent.
This I believe: that in this divided world
the British Commonwealth is one of the
most wholesome influences that exist
We in these islands are, and cannot help
being, the mother country. But most of
our large family has now grown up, and
are very well able to run their own homes.
These simple calls—above all to youth
—for service, and setting the purpose of
that service, are words which, in Kipling’s
phrase, “walk up and down in the hearts
of their hearers.”
N.S.W. Mental "Hospitals."
All the Press barons of Sydney have
now had a fling at the barbaric condi-
tions of N.S.W. mental hospitals—a high-
flown name indeed for the madhouse
concentration camps the newspapers have
described —and “S. M. Herald,” latest
reinforcement in the attack, had hardly
finished' throwing everything it had at the
target when the report of Dr. G. L.
Ewan concerning his investigations last
year into administration of mental
hospitals in Europe and America was
released.
McGirr’s Health Minister Kelly, erst-
while gatekeeper at the Sydney Cricket
Ground,' remarked on the report as he
gave it to the Press that “attention given
to mental patients in N.S.W. compares
favorably with that given in overseas
institutions.” This commentary, in face
of the plain and unrelieved condemna-
tion of local conditions by Dr. Ewan’s
report, is so false, and, as the Minister’s
conviction after “personal inspection,” is
so ludicrous, that the Minister would
obviously be more in his element if he
returned to gatekeeping, perhaps at one
of his own asylums.
Dr. Ewan’s description of what he saw
of mental hospitals overseas and the
modern methods of treatment in both
early and later stages of mental disease
condemns the N.S.W. institutions, accom-
modation, staffing and practices from top
to bottom. Nobody who peruses the pub-
lished extracts from it can fail to be
shocked by this restrained but confirma-
tory official footnote upon the exposures
previously made in the Press. Dr. Ewan’s
points are:
In the “Division of Mental Hygiene,”
central office, there are a director, a sec-
retary, and a junior clerk to administer 13
establishments, with 16,000 patients and a
staff of 2586.
The director is so cluttered up with clerical
detail that he can neither attend properly
to his job nor delegate his authority.
There is a lack of clinical doctors and
difficulty in obtaining men “adequately
equipped temperamentally.”
Better study of psychiatry is required in
university medical schools; a neuro-
psychiatric institute necessary as adjunct to
a new reception hospital.
Promotion in the service must be by
merit and not by seniority.
Much better selection of lay staffs is
required.
Two clinical directors needed at once.
Limited medical staff in mental hospitals
“leaves little time for high-standard medical
or psychiatric work to be done” —over-
loaded with extraneous duties. Accom-
modation overcrowded, too. Full-time
dental service wanted.
An “alarming proportion” of beds is
occupied simply by senile persons because
the State has no adequate provision for the
aged.
These conditions are a disgrace to any
civilised community. Apparently Mr.
Kelly doesn’t think so. His attitude is
consistent with the McGirr Ministry’s
notorious incapacity for any executive
resolution. It spent a week of anguish
and recriminatory debate before it could
bring itself to add an inevitable penny
to tram-fares —and that was a mere
berry among the Dead Sea fruits of its
40-hour-week Act. It could not even
face making a decision of its own to
ration electric power when the whole
metropolis was suffering from uncon-
trollable blackouts under the shortage.
Only Digger Sheahan has any idea of
taking off his coat to a job of work.
A £22i-million Lesson.
Something seems to have gone wrong
with the Socialist theory in Britain.
Stafford Cripps, Chancellor of the Attlee
Socialist Exchequer, told the country that
its exports had slumped by £22} million
in April, and next day was urging British
workers to produce more for export.
Whereupon some nasty-minded non-
Socialist politician declared that the real
cause was the high costs of the socialised
industries—coal, gas, electricity and
transport—and “abuse of bulk-purchase
and rationing of raw materials, such as
steel.”
Now the Socialist theory is that men
won’t work well for private industry be-
cause the advance in human thought has
created in them an objection to working
for someone else’s profit. But put to
work in a Socialist community, where all
the profits go to “the peepul”—ah, that’s
whep man’s lilywhite soul comes to the
top, and, knowing that every effort he
makes is for the good of himself and
his fellows, he hurls himself into the
job with might and main. Then, says the
Socialist, you get all the workers going
flat-out because they know there is no
profit for anybody save, perhaps, the
Government Treasury, and after all that’s
“the peepul’s” money and the Treasury
is merely its custodian.
But somehow or other the workers
don’t look at it that way. An enormous
majority of them persist in believing that
{Continued on next page.)
THE LARRIKIN VIEWPOINT.
“New Zealand ‘Labor’ has decided to hold a referendum on the question of compulsory peace-time military training, and Prime Minister Fraser has said he wil
be in the forefront of the ‘Yes’ campaign.”
“YOU’LL be sorry!”


CRAVEN
A
It’S their consistent
freshness that
makes me prefer
CRAVEN'A”
’jfay/j Vabj!
6435 E/R
CARRERAS LIMITED — OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
once they become Government employees
—which is what they are in a Socialist
State—then they’ve entered a sort of
heaven-on-earth, and sweat and respon-
sibility, as well as discipline, become
things of an evil past. And it doesn’t
seem to be much use reminding them that
the more they do the more they and
everybody else benefits. And vice versa.
Australia, like Britain, is discovering
the real reaction of “the peejpul” to
Socialism, and Australian Socialists, like
their British fellows, are bitterly dis-
appointed. The tnith, of course, is that
nothing speaks to a simple-minded wage-
earner like hard cash, and nothing will
make him work better than the promise
of hard cash if he works well and the loss
of it if he doesn’t.
POLITICAL POINTS
Supporting Calwell’s clumsy applica-
tion of the White Australia policy, the
Prime Minister on Sunday night referred
to it as a restrictive policy “which had
been followed by all Governments.”
That is indisputable, and it is to be hoped
that no Australian Government will ever
abandon it; but in the 40 years during
which the policy was administered by
previous Governments the ill-will en-
gendered by it did not amount to one-
hundredth of the hatred stirred up by
Calwell in the past 12 months.
There seems to be a concerted agree-
ment among Communist higher-ups to
stick their heads out and invite prosecu-
tion for contempt of court. Latest
would-be “martyr” is Elliott, of the Sea-
men’s Union, who spoke his piece in the
Sydney Domain on Sunday. His insult
took this form:
How can the man who sits up there on
the Arbitration Court —with his bald head
wrapped in horsehair, and getting sixty
quid a week—define whether you should
or should not have an extra ten bob a
week?
It is the sort of argument calculated to
appeal to Domain mobs. Elliott might
as well ask how a Judge who has
never comrnitted a murder, robbed a
bank, set fire to a haystack, embezzled
trust funds, perpetrated a hold-up, broken
into a residence, forged a cheque or tried
to pass counterfeit money can preside over
a court where people are charged with
criminal offences. In effect he is saying
that the only man qualified to fix a basic
wage is the basic-wage earner himself.
Actually, of course, Elliott’s real pur-
pose, and that of his Red colleagues, is
to discredit arbitration because he
believes, and admits, that his crowd have
got all they can out of it. There are
signs that they also believe they have got
all they can out of the Chifley Govern-
ment and are now designing to bring it
down. For this Chifley and company
can blame their own weak-kneed policy
of continually giving the Comrades every-
thing they ask. It is proverbial that ill-
bred curs are likely to bite the hand that
feeds them.
The McGirrs are talking about en-
forcing a complete ban on Press and radio
references to an election for two clear
days before polling-day. If adopted the
iron curtain will come down at midnight
on the Wednesday before an election,
and no comment, advertisement or news
about the election will be permitted until
counting commences. Heavy penalties
are threatened for breaches. If not
actually inspired by the Chifley ban on
“political dramatisations,” the suggestion
is certainly inspired by the same fear,
and, more than anything else “Labor”
has said or done, it reveals that the party
leaders realise their future is hanging by
a thread. But it seems impossible that
even so humorless a body as the New
South Wales “Labor” caucus will be able
to accept the proposal.
Newspaper scribes who one day had
the Chinese Nationalists staging a Stalin-
grad in Shanghai and the next meekly
abandoning the city to the Communists
—many of them cheerfully swapping
sides —wouldn’t have been so surprised if
they had been more familiar with Bret
Harte, who wrote many long years ago:
For ways that are dark
And for tricks that are vain,
The heathen Chinee is peculiar.
The flood rains of last summer and
subsequent wetness have turned out to
be as bad as drought in the affected areas
of Queensland sheep country. Blowflies
have come in waves, and are alleged to
have killed a tenth of the, flocks in the
west and south-west, there being no labor
and little materials to deal with them.
The Hanlon Government is helping —it
sent a man up to lecture on the blowfly!
Whatever hope the Joint Coal Board
had of steering its compromise proposals
through the all-party conference on the
miners’ latest demands appeared to
vanish when the Communist-bossed
miners’ executive swung the Combined
Mining Unions’ Council into reversing
its previous decision, by a narrow
majority, to continue negotiations. The
miners demand the granting of their own
claims and the sweeping-away of every
condition sought by owners, board and
Government representatives for a greater
output of coal —easily possible, especially
with mechanical extraction of pillar coal
—in return for increased benefits which
the miners want. The federation leaders
won’t accept arbitration; they won’t
even negotiate; they simply issued an
ultimatum to the coal authorities and
to the community at large. They have
repeatedly seen the Chifleys and Mc-
Girrs bow down to them; this effort
seems designed to ring the bell.
An American magazine took a poll
among foreign correspondents to com-
pile a list of “25 men who rule the
world.” At the top of the list were ob-
vious names such as Truman, Attlee,
Stalin and their right-hand men ; it tailed
off a bit at the finish —King Abdullah,
Chaim Weizmann and President Peron.
And no Dr. Evatt!
Last Wednesday the New, South
Wales Assembly unexpectedly adjourned
until June 7. McGirr told reporters
the decision had been made because
“there was not sufficient legislation to
enable it to meet at normal times” this
week. For several days caucus had been
wrestling with rival redistribution plans;
the adjournment was apparently to en-
able the boys to indulge in a spot of give-
and-take so that they could face the
House as one happy family.
This month headers will begin strip-
ping the great million-bushel grain-sor-
ghum crop planted on the 30,000 acres
at Peak Downs (Q.) under the British-
Queensland Food Scheme. Collins,
Queensland Agriculture Minister, is
“tremendously impressed.” The crop is
estimated to be worth £300,000. So far
nobody has been game to estimate what
its total cost will be by the time it reaches
the British pigs for which it is intended.
Attempts are still being made to foist
pubs on Sydney suburbs which have
never had ’em and whose residents have
never asked for them. Latest complaint
comes from Lindfield, to which suburb
a Bung wants to transfer a Redfern
licence. Council members are objecting
and intend to advocate a return to local
option. They will be up against a stone
wall. The grog industry doesn’t like local
option, and what the. grog industry
doesn’t like' the McGirr “Labor” Gov-
ernment doesn’t like either.
Repatriation Minister Barnard on the
houses that are going up nowadays—
there are some, apparently;
It is true that they are not being built
as quickly as we would like, but that is
due to a number of circumstances —one
of them being that men are not prepared
to work quite as well as in previous years.
That, in turn, is due to the don’t-work-
yourself-out-of-a-job doctrine preached
so assiduously by Mr. Barnard’s party
during years in Opposition.
Current Book Distributors, the official
publishing house of the Communist party,
of Australia, has just issued a book on
Australian Systems of Voting, and it is
rather interesting to find that the author
is “E. D. Senior, Twenty-Four Years
Divisional Returning Officer for Com-
monwealth Electoral Divisions.” The
Prime Minister and Parliament might
make inquiries as to whether any other
“divisional officers,” past and present, of
the Electoral Office are or have been
connected with the Communist party or
its publications..
An obstacle to the Victorian plan to
buy 200,000 tons of Callide coal a year is
the Queensland Government’s decision to
build up a stock of 50,000 tons at Glad-
stone for the use of the railways in
emergency. Emergency these days means
only one thing—a strike, coal or shipping
variety. Though it is rather a come-down
from the Hanlon Government’s grandiose
plans of a year ago, when it seemed about
to supply the universe with coal, the
stockpile idea is a sound one, but doesn’t
Hanlon know that the Communists have
forbidden the building-up of coal stocks?
Fraser, of New Zealand, makes no
secret of the fact that he believes con-
scription to be the only democratic way
of providing for the defence of his
country. Last month he tried to get his
party to agree to the re-introduction of
conscription—Maoriland enforced com-
pulsory service in both wars. His pro-
posal was rejected, but his second sugges-
tion—a referendum on the subject—was
adopted by a huge majority. The ques-
tion will be put to the people during the
next few months.
E. J. Walsh, of the Queensland
A.L.P. executive, told the “Courier-Mail”
that the Communists had in view a pro-
gramme of industrial troubles for
Queensland this winter, with emphasis on
the meat industry, the waterfront and
coalmining. His information is probably
right, though there is no reason to assume
the Red activities will be confined to
Queensland.
The New South Wales Constitutional
League is sponsoring a convention to con-
sider a review of the Federal Constitu-n
tion. Organisations from all States will
be asked to send representatives to the
convention, which will open in Sydney
on July 25, the 110th anniversary of the
arrival in Australia of Henry Parkes. It
will discuss whether “the calling of an
elected people’s convention by the Com-
monwealth Parliament is possible and de-
sirable,” and try to decide how best to
stimulate public interest in “consolidating
the Federal principle.” Something of the
sort is obviously necessary. No move will
come from Canberra; “Labor” would
abolish Federation tomorrow if it had the
power.
The Australian Communist professes
to regard “the right to strike” as an in-
alienable right of the worker, although
it is a right no worker in Russia possesses
or dare claim. It will be interesting to
hear Comrades Thornton and Dixon on
their return from Europe attempting to
justify the use of armed strike-breakers
from the Soviet zone of Berlin against
striking railwaymen in the Western
sector. No doubt they will have their
lesson off pat, and we will hear that the
strikers were in reality Fascists trying to
embarrass the Soviet occupation forces
and that all the bashing was done by
them.
Hanlon doesn’t appear to be in a
hurry to fill the Ipswich vacancy caused
by the death last month of D. A. Gledson.
Nominations for the “Labor” plebiscite
will close on June 11, but the party will
not choose its candidate until four weeks
later; polling-day will be some time in
August. Ipswich has been a “Labor”
stronghold for a long time, but
Gledson had a big personal following,
so both sides will be watching the by-
election as a pointer to State and
Federal general elections.
Attlee’s Steel Grab Bill is now being
debated in the Lords, where the Opposi-
tion is proposing an amendment post-
poning its operation Until after the next
election. Lord Salisbury likened the
Socialist Government to a young man
who had come into a fortune, occupied
three years in the congenial occupation of
spending it, .and was now looking round
for some means of raising the wind. He
claimed that the best chance an industry
had of remaining in private hands was
“to be thoroughly unsuccessful, and de-
clare every year a thumping loss.” Mean-
time, in Glasgow, Churchill was giv-
ing an assurance that the first thing the
Conservatives would do if returned to
power would be to de-nationalise the
steel industry.
After Pollard had told them the
International Wheat Agreement wouldn’t
supersede Canberra’s wheat-“stabilisa-
tion” plan or its guarantee-price scheme
based on production costs, the Wheat-
growers’ Federation accepted the I.W.A.
“under protest,” saying it couldn’t do
anything else. Which is another way of
admitting that, under the present set-up,
Pollard is boss of the wheatgrowers
and their wheat.
They’re having a little bother in Albury
(N.S.W.) Tennis Club. F. Avery was a
vice-president of the club and secretary
of Albury Liberal-party branch. W. E.
Gollan, assistant-head of Albury High
School and principal Communist of the
district, was elected to membership of
the tennis club, whereupon Avery re-
signed his vice-presidency. He charac-
terised Gollan’s membership as “a poli-
tical move,” and he is probably right,
buC-dear, dear, such doings in a tennis
club!
The 116 shires and 41 municipalities
in N.S.W. who put in for money for
roadworks under the Commonwealth Aid
Roads and Works Act got a total of
£560,000, or somewhere about £3500
apiece—some more, some less. Any shire
engineer, country motorist or country
garageman knows how far the paltry
sums will go in improving roads badly
needing repair, but that means nothing
to the Federal crowd, who hold millions
and millions of petrol-tax money, col-
lected for the budding and maintenance
of the nation’s roads, but being socked
away into consolidated revenue to pro-
vide for wild socialistic schemes.
Chifley’s attempt to argue Fadden out
of his choke-hold on Senator Ashley
over petrol-rationing failed to budge the
C.P. leader, who persisted in saying the
Chifley figures were out of date. He is
in the process of collecting some of his
own, and in the meantime motoring
organisations are combining in an effort
to have petrol-rationing cut out —and
they command a lot of votes —and the
N.R.M.A. president doesn’t believe un-
rationed petrol will mean the consump-
tion Chifley says it would because of its
price, restriction on selling hours, in-
ability to buy it at week-ends, limited
accommodation for travellers, and re-
stricted parking in city areas. All cogent
argument.
Passing the buck to one another is an
important part of the activities of Gov-
ernment departments, but Melbourne’s
City Fathers have gone one better by
passing it to themselves. A year ago a
proposal for establishing traffic round-
abouts at Prince’s Bridge to relieve con-
gestion was submitted to the traffic and
public works committees, but the parks
and gardens committee objected that
parklands would be restricted. The cost
then was estimated at £50,000. The other
day a plan for a traffic roundabout was
submitted t<? the same committees and
approved. It was exactly the same plan
except that the cost was estimated at
£BO,OOO.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS.
“F.S.”: Those who imagined that Em
Malley, the greatest of Australian poets,
would be killed stone-dead when the two
young servicemen who concocted him one
wet Saturday afternoon in Sydney con-
fessed the hoax after Max Harris, editor
of “Angry Penguins,” had published his
poems and hailed him as “one of two
contemporary giants of Australian
poetry” don’t understand the modernist
viewpoint. When his creators gave in-
controvertible proof that they had con-
structed the poems by choosing hap-
hazardly words and phrases from dic-
tionaries and other books and that,
furthermore, they had drawn out of their
fertile imaginations the image of poor
Era, a former insurance-collector and
garage mechanic who had died of con-
sumption and left his literary remains to
a hypothetical sister, Mr. Harris was not
shaken in the slightest. If it, were indeed
so, he declared, that did not alter the
genius of the poems, which were products
of. somebody’s unconscious. Wherefore
it isn’t surprising to find the latest issue
“Hey! Were not quite finished !”
of the London literary magazine “Man-
drake” including six of Em’s poems in
a 16-page section called “New Verse
from Australia.”
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: Not for the first time,
Shanghai residents have been crowding
the rooftops for a grandstand view _of
rival Chinese armies slaughtering one an-
other. During the 1913 shindy Republi-
cans and rebels exchanged shells across
the no-man’s land of the International
Settlement, some exploding on the Bund,
some in private gardens and one passing
between the masts of a British cruiser,
much to the indignation of the com-
mander. The excuse always was that the
guns were misaimed, but there was some
evidence that at least one gunlayer was
an expert. An enormous illuminated
sign 100 ft. high which dominated the city
depicted a Chinese gentleman smoking
a cigarette of a well-known brand. Every
few minutes his hand slowly moved to
his mouth, which then emitted smoke-
rings. Then it was suspended for a few
seconds while the ash on the fag glowed
like a Whangpoo beacon. One night an
Sin. shell neatly knocked the ash off.
* * * *
“Coongan”: Ever since last Christmas
my eight-year-old has been extorting
small change from me with which to add
to his stock of fireworks. As he did like-
wise to sundry other relations, Empire
Day was celebrated most spectacularly
and successfully in our backyard—our
fummy, after being nearly dislodged by
a rocket from its refuge behind a
chimney-pot, tried vainly to squeeze it-
self into a drainpipe, and finally was pre-
maturely delivered of four healthy kittens
behind the gas-meter. The Merino lawn-
mower which the neighbors on our right
keep tethered to a stake on their lawn
wound the rope and itself around the
stake, while the dog which dwells on our
left has not since returned home. The
house itself is still standing, though
scarred ; either from sheer terror or out
of utter contempt for what is left of the
garden all the slugs and snails have
’’migrated; the milkman spilt a gallon of
milk and nearly broke his neck when he
stumbled over the debris in the dark next
morning; even now my wife keeps
dropping the family crockery in sudden
starts of nervousness; and I am appa-
rently permanently deaf in one ear. The
other orifice still records faint sounds and
nearly fell from its moorings this morning
when it heard the request, “Can I have,
sixpence. Dad, to start saving for Guy
F&wkes Day?”
* * * *
“Zake”: The flapper in the music-shop
had asked for a copy of one of
the latest “hit” tunes. Finding that the
last of his counter-stock had been sold
the salesman rang the stockroom on the
intercom, and asked them “to shoot
down a few dozen more of the ‘Chiro-
podists’ Song’.” Shortly afterwards a
youth came down with a bundle, from
which he took and wrapped a copy for
the customer. The title: “Underneath
the Arches.”
* * * *
“L. de R.”: Threatened power-restric-
tions are affecting Melbourne models, who
had a very bad time last winter and are
likely to have a worse one this year,
owing to the ban on radiators. Kerosene-
heaters, they complain, make the atmos-
phere heavy, and have no effect whatever
on the goose-pimples which appear on
their bodies and prevent them from keep-
ing in a statuesque pose for the required
20 or 40 minutes. A couple of years
ago, by threatening a strike, they got the
rate increased to five-bob an hour, partly
as “shiver money.” It is in the award.
This shivering, of course, isn’t that pro-
duced by contemplation of some of the
pictures painted of them,
* * * *
“Pitt St,”: The uses of adversity may
be sweet, but what is sweeter than re-
venge? These many years* have I endured
the buffets of the heedless persons who
hustle along the city streets, bumping me
with their suitcases, jabbing me with
their elbows, kicking me with their feet,
backing into me, stumbling against me,
or stopping dead in front of me so that
I, being short, push my nose into their
backs. The other day a friend asked me
to deliver a portable typewriter for him.
In its case such a machine is a heavy,
though small, object. I carried it in my
right hand and entered upon my revenge.
A man bumped with me with his suit-
case ; I bumped him with the typewriter.
The startled and pained look on his face
was balm to me. As I walked along the
street, I swung that typewriter. It hit
and bumped and struck the heedless on
knees, hands and hips, in the back and
“If only you hadn't gone and lost the paddle !”
in the front, and behind me I left a trail
of bruised and astonished citizenry. Oh,
believe me, revenge is sweet!
* * * #
“Plop”: Thanks largely to the chain-
stores and stationery shops, the import-
ance of Mother’s Day is now firmly estab-
lished in this country and Father’s Day
is gradually assuming importance, but we
have a long way to go to catch up with
the Yanks in this sort of thing. In the
Land Of Baloney special days and weeks
already take care of most of the calendar,
and there is furious competition for the
few days still unappropriated. A few
of the festivals;
Coin Machine Week, National Fig Week,
National Hot Tea Week, Linen Month,
Peanut Week, Honey for Breakfast Week,
Straw Hat Day, Sleep Show, National
Doughnut Week, Raisin Week, Iced Tea
Week, National Tie Week and Save the
Horse Week.
Is it any wonder that from April 1 to
April 8 Americans celebrate National
Leave Us Alone Week?
* ♦ ♦ *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Well, I certainly
raised a hornets’ nest when I described
present-day kids as a bunch of paftsies.
First young Jimmy O’Keefe glared
menacingly over the top of his school-
desk ; and now “Father of Six” invites
me to make “toward the twilight” un-
afflicted with “old fogeyism” (B.
27/4/’49). Mark you, when I made that
remark, I couldn’t have said, with cer-
tainty, just where my tongue was; and
in the same spirit I’ll concede that this
bloke who’s sired six winners is right.
Each generation is better than its parents.
At eight years my son adopts that air of
easy tolerance that I didn’t hold towards
'my parent until I was nearly 12. And
if the race isn’t constantly progressing
how is it that the coming generation is
tougher, stronger, more virile and
brainier than its fathers? If anyone
thinks it isn’t, he can take over this
argument with the old bloke and the
kid.
* * * *
“Nobby”; Army training taught that
implicit obedience to an order would
save you from all troubles, but I know
two men who had good reason to be glad
they disob'eyed one. The first was a
soldier who handled high-explosives in
civil life. Ordered to go over a com-
mando course in which h.e, was
used to imitate the real thing, he
refused on the ground that it was
dangerous to use gelignite in that way,
and that an equally good effect could be
achieved without danger by the use of
hungers filled with gunpowder. He was
sent back to the camp to be put on a
crime-sheet, but before he got there an
ambulance passed him carrying a
casualty. He heard no more of the charge.
The second bloke was on a cruiser bound
for Leyte Gulf; an officer found fault
with the “dirty” state of th£ anti-flash
clothing and ordered it to be washed at
once. My friend knew something of
simple chemistry; he didn’t wash
his anti-flash outfit, but wiped soiled
places with a damp rag. A few days
later a “Kamicrazy” Jap crashed his plane
on that cruiser and my friend was badly
burned, but he is still alive today. Mates
who had, in obeying the order, washed
all the fireproofing out of their clothing
were killed.
“Pink Tap e”: Notwithstanding
“Pongo” (B. 11/5/’49), the official view
is that there must be a strengthening of
foundations before Sydney G.P.O. can
rise another couple of stories —it is to
be levelled off with the “new building” in
Pitt-street —and the job is such a big one
that the start on the upper-air additions
is not likely to be made for two years.
Moreover, an engineer pointed out to
me where the concrete had been forced
in under the old foundations and ex-
plained the method. The under-standings
of the tower are not in question; natur-
ally they were made strong enough to
carry their load; but the rest of the
foundations were laid to carry a three-
story-building weight in days when foun-
dations were, comparatively speaking,
shallow and concrete had no general use.
* * * *
“Pongo”: Half a century ago I was a
regular visitor to Sydney’s Government
House. Even now memories of its fine
ballroom cause me to break out in a
sweat. The pitchpine floor used to be
refaced about every three years, and I
never missed being selected to plane,
scrape, glasspaper and finally beeswax
and polish the entire surface. Polishing
was done with a 2ft.-square brush, with
2in. leaden back and long wooden handle.
I must have pushed and pulled that brush
for miles over the floor. The vice-regal
kitchen with its stone-flagged floor, im-.
mense fuel-stoves and glistening pots,
pans and kettles of copper was also an
exhibition piece. Every year these uten-
sils were retinned inside and polished with
clean white sand and fresh horse manure.
I should know; it was my job to go to
the stables to collect the manure, which
had to come direct from producer to
user.
* * * ♦
“Nakhoda”: Europe is said to be pre-
paring to deal with an invasion of oyer
250,000 Americans in the coming
summer, and the expected largesse is re-
garded as so important that the French
Economic Co-operation Administration
has a travel-development section and a
tourist commissioner, and everything
will be done to make the millionaires and
millionairesses happy. In France alone
600 restaurants have agreed to fix prices
from 6s. 6d. to 18s. 3d. for meals, with
wine, which suggests that World War II
hasn’t produced the halcyon times for
tourists the first one did. I landed at
Naples in 1920 when the Australian
pound was worth 90 lire. A morning’s
drive around Rome in a carriage with
two .uniformed attendants cost fivepence,
and a night in a hotel two and sixpence.
A bottle of good wine could be got for
Is. 6d. During my sojourn the exchange
fluctuated with the political situation, and
when D’Annunzio, the poet, seized Fiume
the pound soared to 120. I still had a
bagful of Italian paper-money when I
left for London. Next time I passed
through Naples there had been a revolu-
tion ; Musso had more or less established
order, and the exchange had dropped to
60. I suddenly remembered my paper-
money, popped ashore and exchanged it
for almost as many Australian pound-
notes as I had brought into the country.
My trip really cost next to nothing.
FREE WIGS.
“Britain’s national health scheme includes the
provision of free wigs for bald applicants when
doctors certify them as necessary.”
Think of the benefits provided gratis,
Forthcoming readily in the event
Of being among those whose lucky fate is
To have a Socialistic Government.
Free medicine, free teeth to sink with freedom
Into what constitutes your daily fare,
And finally—for all whoTe held to need ’em —
Free brand-new heads of hair!
The mane that once you cherished con amove.
Maybe a man’s prized asset in the past,
Or possibly a woman’s crowning glory,
Say, you can never tell how long ’twill last.
Time the relentless, one may well surmise, might
Have left your top a little bare and pink,
The sort of napper that intrusive flies might
Use for a skating-rink.
But now, if still you pay attention unto
(And who does not?) your comfort and your
looks,
And feel a doubt whether your means will run to
The articles which barbers call “perukes,”
In Britain, with a medical credential
Upon your application to affix
Proof that your doctor views it as essential,
Wigs may be had —for nix.
The years may tread the world like great black
oxen,
As symbolised in Yeats’s metaphor,
And ruthlessly remove the flowing locks on
Which you were wont to set so marked a
store,
Leaving you gloomier and likewise plainer
As bit by bit your thatch begins to fall
Until, at last you show a brain-container
Smooth as a billiard-ball.
What odds, if Socialism backed by- Science
Can furnish you entirely free of cost
With every bit as seemly an appliance
To deck your rocker as the one you’ve lost!
Add to the aids for eyesight and for hearing
In Britain’s cornucopia now installed
One that should surely raise a burst of cheering
From those whoTe going bald.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKS Oly
OStUUUVA*
. rrnm . ,
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUL” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
Flawlessly cratted in
England of age old
bruyere and distin-
guished for its rich, grain
and superb finish, the
“Sasieni” is truly perfec-
tion in pipecraft. In-
built, too, is the patented
“Sasieni” moisture trap,
which assures a mellow,
dry, satisfying smoke.
Distributed by WILCOX MOFFLIN LIMITED
Branches in all States.
In your favourite shape
at all good stores.
Priced at 56/-.
jsfowf /j
■
3
f'-'l
'/j t wrJ
///' $
MA%M
; Lll^
N
but
none
surpass
r ....
&
pencil*
C OPV\HC
BRITISH
Compare ony copying pencil
with Britain’s finest—the “Pedigree”—for
smoothness, strength and durability of colour.
You’ll find no better pencil the world over.
Because they are made of the highest quality
wood and graphite. “Pedigree” pencils do not
break or crumble when sharpened ; they retain
their smooth silky writing consistency and
colour intensity right to the end.
Obtainable in 3 degrees—Medium, Hard, Extra
Hard ; a range of 8 lasting colours.
If unobtainable from your stationer,
kindly contact your nearest agent.
Representatives in Australia
Vic., S. Ausc. and Tas.; HUBERT JOHNSON PTY. LTD., 324-330
Flinders St., MELBOURNE, C.l. N.S.W. and Queensland:
WYNYARD TRADING CO.. Margaret St., SYDNEY. W. Aust.;
CHAS. A. DONALD. Economic Chambers, William St., PERTH.
ADVERT OF BRITISH PENS LTD., BIRMINGHAM- ENGLAND.
M/ek
them
“K.”: After delivering an address re-
cently at Turramurra, N.S.W., on the
subject (among others) of White Aus-
tralia, Billy Hughes—rising 85, and de-
clared by some nitwits to have become
too old for politics—was requested to
answer questions. What had he to say
about a “quota” system for Asiatics, and
was he inclined to support the caste
system in India by treating Asiatics as
outcasts on account of their color? —or
something like that. To which the little
man who has been a sort of gadfly in
Australian politics for half a century re-
plied (E. and O. E.); —
There is no relation whatever between
the caste system in India and the half-cash
anywhere. The half-caste is the offspring
of a white father and a colored mother —
or, ah, vice versa —the out-castes in India
are all of the same color; that is, more or
less. As for the case of Sergeant Gumboil,
my friends, I am a lawyer: p’raps I don’t
look like one, but I have been Attorney-
General of Australia longer than anybody
else in history. And there is a legal maxim
worthy to be observed, de minimis non curat
lex, which means you put the telescope to
your blind eye, and that’s how Nelson won
the Battle of Trafalgar.
Which, as it applies to the tangle in
which Arthur Augustus has got himself
over Sergeant Gamboa, says just about
all that some Australians have been using
many columns to say.
* * " * *
“B. A. Ker”: I struck him by accident
—an old cobber who was trying to eke
out a miserable war pension by working
as a cleaner at a picture-show. And he
had a grievance. “There’s no excuse for
’em!” he declared. “Here.” He led me
through the sacred door marked Ladies
Lounge. “If men had done that you
could make excuses—a man might
forget,” he said. “But women don’t
forget things like, that; they do it deliber-
ately.” I had a look around; in the
face of such evidence nobody could have
challenged the statement. The tapestry
of the lounge chairs was burnt by scores
of cigarettes; there were *more dead
matches on the floor than in the ash-trays,
and in three places bumpers had been
ground into the carpet. Beside the
mirror red strokes on the white plaster
suggested that lipstick-smeared fingers had
been cleaned in this fashion. Back in
the foyer old Jack was still going crook.
“Look at that woman across the street
there,” he commanded. “There’s a, mat
in the doorway of that shop, but did she
use it? Not on your life! She just
trailed her muddy feet across that floor
as though nobody owned it. Yet I bet
she’d nag her old man’s head off if he
did the same at home.” He was
right—absolutely. But I thought it
discreet to move on before the wife came
out of that shop.
* * ♦ ♦
“Brolga”: It was one of those quiz
shows where the competitor gets a chance
to collect anything from a cigarette-butt
to a 72-piece dinner service. The ques-
tion was, “What other animals besides
cows chew their cud?” A long silence
while the bloke chewed the cud himself.
After mentally running through a long
“ You're a hit-and-run driver!”
list of ruminants I decided that “Bulls”
would be a good enough answer, A
second later the competitor gave precisely
that answer. Gong! “Oh, no,” said the
quizmaster. “If you’d said ‘sheep’ or any
animal like that it would have been cor-
rect. Cows chew their cud to make milk,
but a bull doesn’t give milk.” The De-
partment of Education ought to monitor
some of these shows.
* * * *
“Dusty Mile”: Fighting parsons (B.
4/5/.’49)? There was one in the
Queensland Gulf country years ago,
widely known and deeply esteemed.
Before entering the church, later in
life than most men, he had been
a Regimental Sergeant-major in the
Indian Army. When the 1914 war
broke out he was in Gloncurry, too old
to do much more than plead the cause
of patriotic organisations. One night he
was boosting support for the Red Cross.
His discourse was interrupted by a would-
be wag who passed up an envelope. The
parson, anticipating a donation, had
already begun to thank the donor when
he drew forth the picture of a pound
note cut out of a newspaper. He stared
at it for a moment or two ; then the Sar’-
major in him burst forth and took charge.
“If the blankard who thinks this is smart
likes to come up I’ll give him his change,”
he bellowed.
♦ , ♦ * *
“Hamer”: Digger instead of Private
(B. 25/5/’49)? Invalided to England
,from France towards the end of the first
war I spread myself considerably over
the London Press, but whenever my copy
used “Digger” it was carefully blue-
pencilled out and “Australian soldier”
substituted. Editors seemed to fear that
there might be something offensive in the
term, but my persistence at last won. It
was the “Evening News” that first took
its courage in its hands and spread the
three-column heading “Digger to Be
Repatriated” over the copy I had sub-
mitted. When the “News” and other
papers found that there was no outcry
they broke into a regular rash of
“Digger.” As usual, it was overdone.
A heading “Digger in Trouble: Charge
of Bigamy” covered a court report. But
the bigamist was a Canadian soldier.
**• * *
“Oliver Filter”: With the return
of the Palace Theatre to flesh-and-
blood (Coward’s “Present Laughter”)
Sydney now has, against its 18-
odd talkie houses, four legit, theatres in
the city proper (Empire, Tivoli, Royal and
Palace) as well as the Minerva at King’s
Cross. The Palace opened in December,
1896, with “Stars of All Nations,” and was
described by a Bulletin writer of the
time as “probably the most gorgeous
theatre on earth, or thereabouts.” It may
not be that, but I would at least nominate
it as one of the best theatres in Aus-
tralia from an audience viewpoint. Not
too large, with steep-set circle and gods,
it is so designed that, sitting in the circle,
you feel as though you could reach out
and embrace the stage. I don’t know
whether Olivier saw it during his visit,
but it seems to comply almost perfectly
with the requirements he listed for a
theatre. Incidentally, when the Palace
joined the general retreat from stage to
films 20-odd years ago it was not its
first venture into celluloid —less than a
year after it opened its variety pro-
gramme included the then miraculous
“cinematographe.”
* * * *
“F.8.R.”: There was a mud-brick (B.
18/5/’49) boob at Barbara, Palestine,
which was built in the summer of 1940.
When the rains came the bricks sprouted
and the boob became a mass of emerald-
green. It was the most attractive-looking
cooler I have ever patronised.
* * * *
“Col M.”: A friend of mine seems to
visualise Paradise as filled with old cedar
pieces, accessible only to those souls
qualified to fondle the timber and keep
it polished. Here on earth he appears to
be drawn to a house containing interest-
ing cedar by the same weird magnetism
which causes normal folk to turn up
thirsty in the kitchen when you are
secretly opening a bottle of ale. He
recently found such a house in a little
town, and was most impressed by the
cedar bed it contained. “Three hundred
years old!” he tells me. “A four-poster,
the mellowest timber I have ever seen.”
The lady whose hoipe he had invaded,
“a nice old thing with white hair and
kittens,” pointed with pride to the cedar
scroll on the head of the bed and asked
my friend what he thought of its delicate
carving. When he had finished, she added
“And it’s useful, too.” She sat on the
bed, saying “Now suppose I’ve just been
awakened by a burglar. I reach up, lift
the scroll from its mountings, and
thump! See the dent it makes in the
pillow—it’s weighted with lead at one end.”
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: Umbrellas are handy
things to leave in trams or buses
or ferries, ip shops and cafes and even in
church; but they have another value.
They are useful when hailing taxis. The
taxi-driver who will pass with contempt
an outstretched arm pulls up with screech-
ing brakes directly an umbrella is waved
at him. That is, according to a cobber,
who told me that since he has taken to
wearing an umbrella he has had no diffi-
culty getting taxis. He had used three taxis
that day, he assured me, getting each at
the first brolly, so to speak. His com-
placency was disturbed when I suggested
that, as a taxi would be useful to me at
the moment, it was a pity he didn’t have
his brolly with him. He had an aston-
ished look round, examining his hands as
if he could not believe that one or the
other did not hold an umbrella. But it
was gone. He had left it in that last taxi.
HUGHES ON U.N.O.
“There is nothing wrong with U.N.O. except that
it speaks bravely and is unable to do anything about
it.”— lV. M. Hughes,
An excellent arena for debating
Vexed problems. Still, what Billy says is
true:
Most of the things for which the world is
waiting
And which it seldom tires of advocating
It’s absolutely impotent to do.
Brave words! Such well-intentioned contribu-
tions
May shed some light on current themes, of
course,
But what’s the use of any institutions
Pontifically passing resolutions
It knows it’s quite unable to enforce?
It faces heavy odds, one must confess, in
The enterprise of substituting pacts
For wars. Sound sentiments its heads express in
Their talks. The trouble is their non-success in
Getting their views translated into acts.
If it were judged by speeches, devil doubt it!
There’s little blame attaching to it. But
When Jews and Arabs, for example, flout it.
You’ll note there’s nothing it can do about it
Except to wring its hands and say “Tut-tut! ”
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Wippegong”: Agree with “Old-timer”
(B. 4/5/’49) that the N.S.W, southern
highlands this autumn were a picture.
Haven’t seen maples: or birch, poplars
or planes in their native northern tends,
but doubt if they could dress in finer
colors than those they acquire along the
Divide; maybe they, too, like some
other forms of life, improve upon
acclimatisation to this country. And
the reds of oaks and maples bum
warmer, and the poplars’ golden spires
gleam brighter where they are set amidst
the deep green of the gums—the combina-
tion is better than either type alone. Best
example I knew of this was away up the
Murray at the home of Sydney Jephcott,
the bard, where the original selector satis-
fied the law which required a certain
value of improvements each year by
planting a number of trees which, so I
was told, counted as a pound each. The
result in spring or autumn was glorious;
the soft green of young oak and elm
foliage filled the gaps between the red-
gums, with here and there a foreign coni-
fer stabbing the mountain mists —and
when the shadows stretched again the
riot of color such as lately charmed
“Old-timer.” Agree also that the black-
backed magpies provided the vocal high-
light of the season. A little further south,
beside the ’Bidgee west of Canberra, they
were even more interesting, for there they
overlapped the territory of the southern
white-backed fellow. They were thickest
on the paddocks of sub.-clover, playing
merry hell with any crawling pests and
together voicing their appreciation of the
good going. You don’t realise just how
black is the back of the northern fowl
until you see him beside one all-white
from neck to rump—and vice versa;
once seen together you’d not confuse
them again. We’re inclined to regard
black-and-white birds as just black-and-
white and let it go at that. In most other
birds a change of pattern is usually picked
out by a change of color, too ; you have
to look for the patterns of the pied fra-
ternity.
* * * *
“Macnell”: “Subbo’s” beer-barrel
hydrostatics (B. 18/5/’49) reminds me of
the similar unsinkability of a certain
naval dinner. The crew of one of a
flotilla of corvettes operating round
Morotai had managed, by means undis-
closed, to bag a pig for Christmas dinner,
a few weeks away. While in harbor, with
the ship berthed near envious flotilla-
mates, that pig was offered all the free-
dom of a dog on a one-foot leash, and
was stowed at night in the locked 4in,
magazine. But at sea restrictions lifted,
and the fattening porker’s peregrinations
were bounded only by the guard-rails—
until one rough day during flotilla
manoeuvres the little ship rolled, a wave
caught her down, she heeled further, and
with a Siren’s squeal the pig shot under
the rails and into the sea. Then was
demonstrated the Navy’s seamanship. In
seconds the seaboat hit the water, and
astern what had been a speeding line of
ships milled and heeled all over the sea
in frantic efforts to avoid each other and
a boat over whose side, gasping but
triumphant, an oblivious crew hauled
their dinner back from Davy Jones.
* * * *
“Kelms”: “Red Nose’s” reference to
the head on Westralipn beer (B. 4/5/’49)
reminds me of the regimental spread at
which I, a comparative non-drinker, was
O.C. Beer. We had four kegs, and the
boss, an inexperienced young officer with
more zeal than sense, insisted that the
kegs be stationed at the Q.M. store and
transported to the scene of activities as
required. As each keg gave out another
was trundled down in a wheelbarrow.-
It was a warm, sticky night, ideal for
drinking—and the beer wouldn’t run;
the trip in the barrow had so activated
the hops that nothing but froth emerged
for the first 20 minutes. In the ensuing
uproar the youthful pip-artist found
complete justification for his action in
restricting the supply; and I discovered
that you can take 50 three-gallon buckets
of suds out of a nine-gallon keg without
reducing <the contents.
* * * *
“Old Bushman”: The wedge-tailed
eagle is at last coming into favor —at any
rate, in the Geelong district. Two of
these monarchs of the air which for years
have resided and nested at the near-by
craggy-peaked You Yangs have recently
disappeared and a daily has had a double-
column story bemoaning the loss. Van-'
dais are suspected of destroying the great
birds, for one was shot and hung on a
fence. Perhaps in centuries to come the
same thing may be written of the demise
of eagles out from Tibooburra.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’!”: Tristan da Cunha, the
loneliest inhabited island in the world, is
to have an industry and a regular service
with South Africa by a boat manned
largely by islanders. Since the change-
over from sail to steam, merchant-ships
no longer call there. In other days sailers
homeward bound from Australia by the
Cape Horn route often hove-to off the
desolate windswept island in the South
Atlantic, midway between South America
and Africa, to barter fish and vegetables.
In recent decades the 250 English-speak-
ing inhabitants —all of whom share only
seven surnames—have had a hard time
owing largely to the ravages of rats in the
potato-fields and the lack of communica-
tion. In 1939 the island, which is an ex-
tinct volcano rising steeply from the sea,
was commissioned as a “naval ship.”
The naval padre there from 1939-45, Mr.
C. P. Lawrence, organised, in conjunc-
tion with the Colonial Office and several
South African fishing companies, a can-
ning factory. From the earliest times
fishing has been the islanders’ main occu-
pation.
* * * *
“E.”: “No doubt, women are the
limit!” Dad kicked the milking-bucket
to the back of the yard/ swore loudly at
a rooster and aimed a tin of rivets at
Darkie for looking stupid. Charlie
Stephens wisely put himself on the other
side of the fence, gave Dad another
couple of minutes, then inquired about
the trouble. “Aw, y’ know how a bloke’s
been lookin’ forward t’ the sports t’day,”
Dad replied. “The whole district’s goin’,
an’ some o’ the heads are cornin’ up t’
open ’em. An’ now a bloke can’t go on
account o’ Mum takin’ a set against
gaberdine pants. Been at me t’ get a pair
o’ dark sports-pants f’r a long time.”
“But a lot o’ the blokes round here wear
gaberdines. Dad,” “That’s what I tell
’er,” bawled the old bloke. “Gripes, even
the shire sec’et’ry does. But y’ can’t rea-
son with a woman, Charlie. Reckons they
ain’t good enough. Yet I wore them
pants t’ the sports last year an’ the year
before an’ she didn’t object, nor to me
wearin’ em t’ Hogson’s f’r the harvestin’,
or t’ the bushfire. It was at the fires
they got that big hole in front an’ had
t’ be patched. Remember? On the same
leg as I tore the cuff orf when Bluey was
bitten be a snake. Gripes, if I’d knowed
she was goin’ t’ turn sour on ’em I’d
never ’a’ got the things. But that’s the
“You Watch him. Sambo, while I
get a stick."
trouble with women. So blasted change-
able a bloke dimno what t’ buy.”
* * * *
“Solitude”; Seventyfiver’s argument
that “it’d get better some time” finally
yielded before my barrage of warnings
and threats, and he presented himself at
the store for something that would cure
rheumatism. The store bloke shook his
head, looked vaguely round the shelves
and eventually produced a bottle of medi-
cine. What it was for exactly he couldn’t
say, but the old bloke tasted it and de-
“Got any peanuts , Nero?"
cided it was vile enough to cure any-
thing. Then, as he’d been stung 7s. 6d.
for it, he swallowed it with commendable
regularity. I was mustering tucker into
a bag for a one-day trip when I spotted
him gulping down his morning issue. A
few minutes later he swallowed some
more, “Hey, go light on that stuff!” I
cautioned. “There might be poison in it,
for all you know. You’ve got to take it
according to directions and no more.”
“Well, I’m takin’ it like the d’rections,
ain’t I?” he replied impatiently. “It sez
a spoonful, an’ that’s what I’ve ’ad. But
if we’re takin’ them steers across we won’t
be back till t’morrer, an’ a man can’t
hump a blasted bottle ’n’ spoon every-
where he goes. That’s why I’m takin’
me next four doses now so’s not to miss
out on ’em.”
♦ ♦ * *
“Zake”: Many bushmen, in the ab-
sence of running water, prefer to drink
from tanks and dams water which isn’t
clear. Usually clear, still water has a
distinct “taste,” mostly due to the pre-
sence in it of some mineral salts, usually
gypsum, which has the effect of pre-
cipitating the mud. Milky-colored water
is generally caused by pipeclay, and that
also can be tasted. Most of ’em swear
that the brown-colored water tastes best. •
* * * ♦
“Old-timer”: The J, G. Arnold was
beating upstream on a big river, towing
her barge, when she swung into the
Tapalin reach at the same time as a
north-east gale hit it. The barge yawed,
and wind and current were so strong
that the steamer almost lost her way, but
dug into it again and was gaining when
the towline broke. The barge
went heavily and lazily on the
mud on the N.S.W. bank, while
the steamer jumped ahead, then
slowed and swung to come
back. Night came with the
barge still stuck, all attempts
to winch her off failing. Leav-
ing Billy Beggs and Diaman-
tina on the barge, the Arnold
dropped absut a quarter-mile
downstream and tied up for the
night. The crew entertained it-
self with a gramophone and
some community singing, then
went to bunk. Next morning
they nearly fainted when they
looked up the river and saw no barge.
Steam was boosted and the boat paddled
to the barge site, but there was no sign
of her on or under the water. So they
dropped downstream. She was aground
on a mussel-bank round the bend, the
river having risen a few inches during
the night and floated her off. Aboard
her Billy and Diamantina were still asleep,
haying felt or heard nothing except, as
Billy put it, “What sounded like a lot o’
blokes singin’ once, but I reckoned I
was dreamin’.”
* * * ♦
“Emrus”; For years a long line of
fisheries inspectors had tried unsuccess-
fully to catch Cuttyhunk Joe at his
favorite pastime of dynamiting, so an
attempt was made to keep the new ap-
pointee’s identity a close secret. Joe,
however, got wind of his coming, so
when the fisheries bloke invited him to a
day among the bream the invitation was
accepted and midday found the two of
them in a boat a mile offshore exchang-
ing pleasantries on fhe prospect of a
good catch, Joe’s only armament ap-
peared to be a tin of overripe burley,
which he distributed liberally over a
likely-looking patch, and when the big
’uns started to come up to it he pro-
duced the inevitable stick from inside
his flannel and lit the four-inch fuse.
Dreams of quick promotion in the mind
of the inspector were rudely shattered
when, with only half an inch of the fuse
to go, Cuttyhunk thrust the “bait” into
his hand and with a “ ’Ere y’ are, yer
fisheries blankard, throw the thing
yerself,” grabbed the oars and prepared
to gather the harvest.
« * * *
“Doodlakine”: “ Young - ’un ” (B.
27/4/’49) may be able to get believers of
his yarn about Jackson being trapped all
night aloft on his windmill, but —well,
all the modern windmills I have seen had
a simple device by which the tail could
be turned so as to throw the big vane-
wheel out of action. This is generally
operated by a string from the ground';
though some mills even have an auto-
matic device which throws them out of
action directly the tank gets full. Jack-
son, up on the platform, could have
worked the shut-off lever by hand. Of
course, there are rare mugs who may
climb a windmill without its being shut
off. Once helped to bring in a Choom
who hadn’t known better. The fall had
hurt him most. The big wheel had merely
wiped him off the platform.
He * * *
“Lower Tops’!”: A new bird has been
added to the list of those found breed-
ing in the Commonwealth. It is the
Royal Albatross, a nest of which was
found on Macquarie Island, a depen-
dency of Tasmania, by members of the
scientific party which recently returned
to Melbourne in H.M.A.S, Labuan. This
giant among seabirds breeds only in deso-
late, fog-bound, gale-ridden southern
latitudes, and in particular the Auckland
Islands to the south of Maoriland and
the Crozets. The nest on Macquarie
Island was found three miles from the
expedition’s camp by N. Laird, a Tas-
manian naturalist, and its egg, which will
be deposited in the Tasmanian museum,
was laid in January. Not a great deal
is known about these big white fliers.
Some authorities say that the snow-white
Royal variety is really the final—or
whitening—stage of the wandering
albatross.
BURNING DAYLIGHT.
Rock-a-bye winds in the* sheoaks,
Rock-a-bye waves on the shore;
Fishing-boats grope through the glitter,
Slack sail and sparkling oar,
Casting the splendor behind them,
Casting their shadows before.
A beacon shows red through the shadows,
A wind whimpers by with a threat:
Though over the sea-grass and samphire
The sunset is hovering yet
And under the sheoaks and banksias
The odors of summer are met.
There comes to my mind with the sundown
Here on the sea-cliff’s brink
With the words of an Eastern proverb,
A sobering thought to think:
“Be glad while you may,” runs the warning,
“Later it is than you think!”
VICTORIA.
K. DALZIEL.


//
Tinque
BLOTCHY SKIN
If your tonque is cooled,
skin looks Woichu, and
you feel bilious die to
irreqularity.these are .
indicationsyour system
is sluggish and needs
attention. So tonight
start on a course of
Dr. Morses Indian Root
Pills to liven gour
liver and regulate
the bowels.
DR.MORStS «|
MgSr
I* PIUS
Special
GEM
RAZOR
WITH
Double Life
GEM Blades
Obtainable Everywhere^
COMPLETE
3'-
WITH 2 BLADES
IN NEAT PLASTIC
CASE i
gsf
ITS THE WEIGHT BEHIND THE EDGE THAT
GIVES SMOOTHER, EASIER SHAVES
ẃ
A /
ar
%
4
y
Good BRANDY stimulates—warms—-
wards off colds and chills—in fact
with TOLLEY’S in the cupboard
you’ve a doctor in the house!
TOLLEY’S
TST
BRANDY
FAMOUS FOR 90 YEARS
ẅ
ll* SOUTH WALES DISTRIBUTORS, TOOTH t CO.. LIMITED
“Horseless Horseman”: Not only do
the honors due to the first explorer to
reach Cape York justly go to Tacky
Tacky (B. 11/5/’49), but the faithful abo-
riginal’s description of the tragedy is a
model of clarity and brevity. “He,”
(Kennedy), recounted Tacky, “then fell
back and died, and I caught him as he
fell back, and held him, and then I turned
round myself and cried....” Tacky
learned his exploring under Major
Mitchell, and a study of the reports of the
ill-fated Kennedy expedition cannot other-
wise but impress one that this native’s
courage, prudence, resourcefulness and
loyalty could not have been surpassed by
the whitest of men. Captain Simpson, the
master of the Freak, who took Tacky
north to retrieve Kennedy’s papers, says
of him: “He was always quiet and oblig-
ing and very respectful, and when on
shore the sagacity and knowledge he dis-
played were astounding.” Poor Tacky de-
served a better fate than that which over-
took him in Tanuary, 1854. On the road
south with cattle, 30 miles from Albury,
he fell, while intoxicated, into the camp-
fire and was burnt to death.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”; Watching the Sky-
master pass overhead, and musing idly on
man’s ingenuity, I carelessly flicked
something off the back of my neck —and
sprang to life as the sergeant-ant, an
inch and a quarter long, hit the ground
at my feet. The sergeant-ant of southern
Westralia carries a sting that lasts for
days, and I was about to kill it when I
noticed its wings. They were flimsy
affairs, not much bigger than the over-
size petals which carry the winged ter-
mite on its brief nuptial flight. Yet ob-
viously they were capable of lifting that
heavy body and sustaining its flight. This
ant differed from my previous acquaint-
ances of the same species. It had prac-
tically no mandibles, and the rear section
—the type has three main sections of the
body—was considerably enlarged. But
the most interesting feature was the
shoulder section, from where the wings
sprouted. It was enlarged out of all pro-
portion, and was hard and muscly like
a wrestler bunching his shoulders. The
insect was obviously setting out to found
a new colony, as were the myriads of
other flying-ants which the humidity had
called forth, and the spirit of adventure
which such flights infuse in me should
have stayed my foot. But I remembered
the sting, and the romantic pioneer be-
came a monster. Which is why I write
of it in the past tense.
* * * *
“Swampy Oak”: Mutual aid is more
apparent among the feathered family
than the furred or scaly fraternity. Never
noticed any willing or sympathetic
helpers round a trapped wildcat or dingo.
Watched bunny’s so-called pals one
moonlit night dive for home at the snap
of a trap. No rabbit came out of that
“Puf on your brakes, George; We're bolting!"
warren until exhaustion had quietened
the squealing victim. But let a magpie,
parrot or apostle-bird get in a similar
fix and everyone of his flock, at the
shrill cries for help, will instantly fly to
his aid. I have seen magpies bring food
to a rabbit-trapped mate. The squawks
of a wounded parrot will create a frenzy
in his particular clan, and they are slow
to leave him even when he is dead.
Alone, a peewee has no chance with a
hawk, but they will band together to
Gallop him. Its own preservation is the
fish’s sole guide.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: As near as we could
make it by stepping out the boundaries,
we’d emu-bobbed about 400 acres, both
of us making it 50 chains by 80 chains,
taking a square line and give-and-take
measurements for in dfid out parts of the
area. But our stepping didn’t suit the
boss, nor did our give-and-take. No ; he
must have the area divided into rectangles
and squares, he must produce a chain,
and we must spend nearly three days with
him measuring it in bits and pieces.
Then, after a lot of figuring on paper, he
made it 368 acres. I had an uneasy feel-
ing that something was wrong; so did
Mat, but we said nothing and withdrew,
saying we would check the figures and .see
him in the morning. Somewhere about
1 a.m. that night I heard Mat get up and
go out, went to sleep again, and was
awakened by his return. He had a chain-
measure and I had a folding rule, and
we made that chain-measure 24 yards, not
22 yards, as it should have been. “Where
did y’ get it?” 1 asked. “Remembered
him leavin’ it in the utility,” Mat an-
swered, then gathered the chain-measure
and disappeared. Next morning, while the
boss was amongst his hands, we broached
him. “We checked them figures,” Mat
said, loudly, “an’ we make it 450 acres.
An’ if y’ don’t believe us,” he added,
loudly, so that all pould hear him, “bring
out your chain an’ we’ll see how long
she is,” The boss swore, but he paid.
* * * *
“Zake”: I have heard claims made
that a snake can spring forward up to
4ft. A coiled snake can heave itself
forward, but its tail certainly never leaves
the ground. Possibly Joe can, uncoiled,
hurl himself forward up to a foot, and
then only if the greatest proportion of
his length is still on the ground. The tiger
is the most agile of the family, and I have
a cobber who’s prepared to swear that
one of them leaped forward over 4ft. in
an attempt to give the coup de grace to
an attacking dog. The only snakes that
hurdle are the bottled species.
* * * *
“Wonk’,’: George, passing the garage,
spotted the mechanic fixing Smithy’s car.
“Check his brakes, too, Bob,” he advised
the engine-doctor. “Make sure they’re
workin’ prop’ly.” “What’s the idea?”
Smithy called from the doorway. “Me
brakes are all right, George.” “So they
might be,” came the reply. “But we can’t
have y’ takin’ chances, y’ know.” A bit
later George was on his pet subject in
the bar. “Should be a law to make all
you blokes get your brakes checked regu-
larly,” he declared. “It’s dangerous the
way some of you run about.” Came a
chorus of protests and good-natured
assurances. “All right, but bad brakes
are an open invitation to trouble,”
George persisted. “They might work in
flat places, but you should have ’em so
they’ll hold well on a downgrade. Don’t
say I didn’t warn you, that’s all.” A
few days later he was working on the
road that ran through his paddock. He
finished rubbing the last point to razor-
sharpness, picked up his long, spike-
studded pole, and lashed it firmly to the
lower part of his road gate. “There,”
he declaimed, admiring his defences. “Bet
that’ll make the cows fix their brakes
and stop smashing me gate.”
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Reading of those
mud-brick dwellings (B. 20/4/’49) at
Leonora (W.A.), I was interested to note
that the outside was “smoothly plastered
with clay and oiled.” Portion of my
neighbor’s house is an original mud-
brick structure built about the turn of
the century. It’s still staunch, probably
because the builder heeded the accepted
injunction to “keep its hat on and its
feet dry” and made his verandahs wide.
The rooms are cool, but mud-brick walls
are not a housewife’s dream, so my
neighbor lined the rooms with a plaster
made from equal parts of sand and
superphosphate. It sticks like glue and
hardens like cement, and has even
proved effective for outside covering.
* * * ♦
“B. A.' Ker”: “Old-timer’s” par, on
the Mittagong district (B. 4/5/’49) un-
wittingly solved a minor mystery for me.
Some years ago, when I worked
in that locality, most of my leisure
was spent in pleasurable roaming
among those hills and dales,
ranges and gullies (incidentally, the
maggies used to have‘an evening
session at worm-catching then;
long after the rest of the day-
sighted birds had selected their
roosts the black-and-white fowl
were still working-over the pad-
docks with the visibility growing shorter
every second). But the gullies intrigued
me most. After a hot day they seemed
to me to be nature’s cathedral, cool and
tranquil beneath the dome of gnarled
trees. There was music there —a medley
from the crickets in the moist ground
near the swift creek, and the cicadas high
above. One second the sound would be
echoing the gully; then silence. It was
not hard to imagine that some unseen
conductor had given the signal, so abrupt
and complete would be the cessation.
Often I’ve wandered on and on enchanted
—then suddenly realised that darkness
was settling down and there were three
or four miles of scarcely-discernible
track to be picked out in the dark. I was
heading for one of these rambles when
I came on a road that had been roughly
very roughly macadamised with
ballast that looked like the residue from
a smelting-works or, perhaps, the petrol
distillery. Gleaming on the surface were
five beautifully-colored pieces of mineral.
There seemed to be great possibilities for
ornament-making in those green, ex-
quisitely-glazed stones. And here’s where
the mystery came in: for months I’d
been wondering how a brown paper-bag
containing five drab, brown stones came
to be in my desk. “Old-timer’s” par. re-
minded me. My ornamental mineral ap-
parently reverted to its original color as
time passed.
MUSHROOMS.
If I were in romantic mood
And had a poet’s eye, I should
See mushrooms in fair fancy’s light,
Wearing their caps of satin bright,
Of softest brown, and pearl and white
And, underneath, that rarest pink
That only mushrooms have, I think; .
Which smells, to me, like rotting wood.
And I would tell of hoods that peep
From paddocks snug and half-asleep;
Of sward-like slopes before the eye
That press almost into the sky,
And then run off as you draw nigh;
And fairy palaces that show
Where little towns of mushrooms grow
Mixed up with logs and stufips and sheep.
But as I’m just a common man
(And even poets like their “scran”)
I don’t see mushrooms quite like that
But soft and Mack as Eden’s hat,
Cooking in butter (never fat!).
Since I affect an honest mind
I see them at their best, I find,
When sizzling in my frying-pan.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


m
if-
€
V_T
V
SECURITY For the Performance of Trusts
® The Trustee, Executors & Agency
Co. Ltd. is specially constituted under
Act of Parliament.
* It is the oldest Trustee Company in
Australia.
• Is constantly available.
• Provides prompt and efficient service.
• Is impartial and sympathetic.
• Has unrivalled experience in estate administration.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman) ; Sir Lennon
Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; Sir Alan Newton,
M.S., Melb., F.R.C.S., Eng-.; G. D. Young.
General Manager: W. Sydney
1 BLIGH STREET. SYDNEY,
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Oapital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £964,692.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Dp. H. J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., E.R.A.C.P. (Chairman);
John Cadvraliader; Sip Leslie Mors head, K.C.8., K.8.E.,
C.M.G., D. 5.0.; David Wilson, M.A., L.L.8., K.O.
N.S.W. Manager: C. B. R. Cowdery,
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
the WILD CAT
COUMN
City Mutual Life
Writ- Increase
' ten Total
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. Off. Assets.
£ £ £ £ &
1942. . 1,509,888 686,190 261,342 7,761 1 714,596
Reserved for contingencies, £75,000 j ... , no
1943.. 1,686,207 663,209 218,235 8,321 i 596,193
Reserved for contingencies, £75,000 3
1944.. 1,712,023 697,274 238,745 15,411 ]
To staff fund, £5000.. .. .. 1 766,117
Reserved for contingencies, £19,357 J
1945.. 1,786,135 783,182 273,715 39,9311
To general reserve, £50,000 }■ 840,273
To tax reserve, £ 15,000 .. .. J
Profit, sale property, £36,248 .. 1
Interest from previous years, £71,571 V 931,607
1946.. 1,964,122 796,221 297,730 40,783 J
Profit, sale property, £226,278 ..(,,00.,™
1947.. 2,118,921 772,338 376,574 54,763 j 1,182,732
Profit sale property, £41,780 ..]
Interest from previous years, £38,662 1, , ~,
1948. . 2,253,523 828,257 367,438 120,950 I 1>104,654
To contingency reserve, £lO,OOO .. j
The influence of life assurance on the
social and economic life of the com-
munity is, and always has been, bene-
ficial. Today we are all exhorted to
save. A policy with a sound life office
morally binds the assured to a period of
regular saving according to a definite
plan suited to his particular needs. Not
only does he build for the future of his
family and himself, but should he die
before his savings plan is complete, the
plan is at once fulfilled by the office con-
cerned. For this and other reasons there
is no adequate substitute for life assur-
ance from the security aspect, as the
“Wild Cat” has frequently pointed out.
And there is the additional encourage-
ment that premiums which constitute this
form of saving are subject to tax rebate
—present maximum rebatable amount of
£lOO could well be extended to the benefit
of saving generally and without depriv-
ing the Treasury of much more than a
widow’s mite. The competition that goes
on between the big mutual and other life
offices is beneficial to the public, because
it helps to keep the price down.
The City Mutual’s activities are con-
fined to the Commonwealth, and no in-
dustrial contracts are written. The lucid
and lively presentation of its figures—it
has abandoned the old standardised form
and adopted the modern, or single-sided,
accounts method with run-as-you-read
headings—disclose strength and con-
tinued progress, except in net interest
earnings, which is a common experience.
The amount of new business put on the
books last year (£5,921,134, up £347,005)
was a record, and so was the average
amount per policy (£627.7, up £56.4).
The year’s indome, where it came from,
the amount absorbed in outgoings and
charges and the resultant surplus avail-
able for distribution among policyholders
there are no shareholders—compare as
follows:
Income— 1947. 1948>
Premiums, etc £1,511,638 £1,655,167
Interest, divs., etc. .. 607,283 598,356
Surplus sale assets .. 226,278 41,780
Interest previous yrs. .. 38,662
Total .. .. £2,345,199 £2,333,965
Outgo and Charges—
Paid policyholders.. .. 772,338 828,257
® xes -* 370,059 374,388
Increase actuarial liability 652,958 690,362
Total .. .. £1,795,355 £1,893,007
Surplus .. .. .. 549,844 440,958
* Includes taxes, depreciation and contribution to
staff fund.
The contraction of £108,886 in the sur-
plus was due entirely to a drop of
£184,498 in profit on sale of assets, which
was extraordinarily large in 1947 and is
additional to the normal income neces-
sary to meet the growth of liabilities
under policies and provide for bonus
additions. Bonus-earning capacity is
normally governed by the experience in
connection with interest earnings, mor-
tality and expenses.
The co.’s mortality experience is well
within expectations. After deducting
taxes, the net effective rate of interest
earned on the mean assurance fund was
£3 11s. p.c. (down 55.), which provides a
comfortable margin over the 2\ p.c. at
which the actuary calculates liabilities
under policies. Excluding taxes (£53,981)
and depreciation (£20,950), exes, took
18.1 p.c. of the year’s net premiums as
against 18.5 p.c. in 1947; a creditable
performance considering the amount of
new business written.
Together with £24,357 brought for-
ward, the surplus was dealt with in this
way:
1947. 1948.
Surplus earned ... .. £549,844 £440,958
Brought forward .. . . 20,854 24,357
Total surplus .. £570,698 £465,315
Bonuses to policyholders .. 285,063 307,022
To staff fund .. .. 35,000 14,000
To reserves .. .. .. 200,Q00 ■ —
To write down assets .. 26,278 100,000
To contingency reserve .. 10,000
To carry forward .. .. 24,357 34,293
The £307,022 allotted to policyholders
provided reversionary bonuses on the same
scale as in 1947, when they ranged from
245. p.c. to 525. p.c. on whole-life con-
tracts according to age. The large
amount (£100,000) written off assets will
further strengthen inner reserves, and
help to stiffen the rate of interest earned
on the assurance fund (£16,087,400, up
£996,212), which is the amount, calcu-
lated at 2} p.c., necessary to meet future
claims as they arise. It has the support
and assistance of £734,293 (up £9936) of
other reserves as well as the hidden
strength already mentioned. The aim is
to protect future bonus-paying capacity.
Keystone of the investment portfolio is
Commonwealth stock (up £1,213,736),
which now accounts for 70 p.c. of total
assets as against about 27 p.c. 10 years
ago:
1947. p.c. 1948. p.c.
Com’wlth stock £10,961,155 67.3 £12,174,891 70.0
Lcl-govt. stock.. 372,078 2.3 209,545 1.2
Shares and debs. 1,072,916 6.6 1,115,652 6.41
Mortgages .. 1,484,362 9.1 1,712,412 9.8
Loans on policies 762,448 4.7 748,641 4.3
Book debts, etc. ' 263,829 1.6 255,992 1.5
Cash, etc. ~ 200,124 1.2 204,140 1.2
Properties .. 1,173,397 7.2 973,690 5.6
Total .. £16,290,309 £17,394,963
Mortgages (up £228,050 last term) are
now only 9.8 p.c. of the total as against
approx. 40 p.c. in 1938. The year’s re-
duction of £199,707 in properties was due
mainly to the writing-down of bOok-
values and partly to realisations.
Anthony Hordern and Sons (Sydney)
, Dividends N To Nominal
Pref. Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. 5.8 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.!
£ £ £ £ £
1941. .111,732 43,594 5 p.c.= 62,500 5,638 94,086
1942. .110,353 43,594 5 ~,, 62,500 4,259 98,345
1943. .109,257 43,594 5 „ „ 62,500 3,163 101,508
1944. .111,385 43,594 5 „ ~'62,500 5,291 106,799
Reserves.S
Surplus after revaluing plant, £316,153")
Goodwill (£273,153) written off ..1 106,799
To depreciation reserve, £43,000 ..J
1945. .114,761 43,594 5 p.c. = 62,500 8,667 115,466
5.9 p.c.
1946. .119,735 44,297 5J „„ 68,750 6,688 122,154
6 p.c.
1947. .145,704 45,000 6 „ „ 75,000 25,704 147,858
1948. .158,868 45,000 6 „ „ 75,000 38,868 186,726
From tax reserve, £50,000 .. .. 236,726
1949. .150,172 45,000 6 „ „ 75,000 30,172 266,898
t Subject to goodwill, etc., £273,153 until 1944.
§ Excluding depreciation reserve, etc. (now
£347,007).
Because of the universal nature of the
undertaking (stocks range from hardware
and machinery to women’s fashion
goods) and the wide area it covers
(country trade figures prominently in
turnover), this big more-than-century-old
emporium is not to be judged on the
same basis as other retail establishments
doing a purely city turnover in more-
or-less specialised, quick lines. The drop
of £8696 (5.4 p.c.) in last term’s profit
was due to larger provision for deprecia-
tion (£85,401, up £23,492). Sales, which
have grown apace since war ended,
showed a “very satisfactory increase,”
enabling the co. to trade on reduced gross
margins at “greatly increased” operat-
ing cost, of which a 21 p.c. rise in the
wages bill was the chief item.
The £150,172 of profit claimed, second
best since the co, bought the business
from the Hordern family for £2,900,000
in 1926, was 7,5 p.c. on the £2,000,000
of share capital—£7so,ooo of it carries
a cumulative 7 p.c. subject to the N, S.
Wales Interest Reduction Act —as
against 7.5, 7.2, 5.9, 5.7, 5.5 and 5.2 p.c.
back to 1943. It was written after valu-
ing stocks on the usual conservative
basis, and also providing unspecified
amounts for taxation and other con-
tingencies. Since provision for other con-
tingencies (lumped with sundry creditors
in the published accounts) is considered
in excess of requirements, £50,000 was
transferred therefrom to general reserves
and £40,000 to the reserve for alterations
(£45,000). Together with provision for
depreciation (£302,007), the allowance
for alterations is treated as a specific re-
serve and not included with the lay-by in
the table.
The div. was kept at an all-round 6
p.c. for the third year in succession, mak-
ing the average 5.3 p.c. over the last
dozen years. At the moment appear-
ances are that the 6 p.c. is not likely to
be interfered with. The co. has an able
management, alive to its problems, which
include market research and sales-fore-
casting based on future spending power,
as well as a tight hold upon controllable
outgoings. Also, the service the co.
offers is second to none, and service
promises to be a very helpful adjunct to
turnover during the years ahead. Main
factors governing the level of retail
profits today are: (1) turnover, (2) gross
margins and (3) costs. With costs still
advancing and gross margins diminish-
ing, profit has become largely a function
of turnover. When retail turnovers get
into reverse gear, as they will some day,
then price-control will need to be
abandoned—its demise would leave no re-
grets—or present policy reversed if the
fall in net earnings is not to be dispro-
portionate to the drop in sales. ,
Because of higher prices for every-
thing, more money is needed to finance
current trading and to provide for build-
ing improvements, which means a
brighter store with better shopping and
display facilities. And since it is by no
means certain that prices will remain at
present high levels, the cautious board
has arranged for a long-term mortgage
of £650,000 (rate of interest and date of
maturity not mentioned), to be used as
required, instead of asking shareholders
for more permanent capital—a sound
policy in the circumstances.
When the books closed £200,000 of the
mortgage money had been drawn, and it
went, together with surplus earnings, etc.,
mainly into stocks (up £105,967) and
book debts (up £147,886):
194 V. 1948. 1949.
Ord capital .. £1,250,000 £1,250,000 £1,259,000
Pref. capital .. 750,000 750,000 750,000
Mortgage .. 200,000
Creditors, etc. .. 302,177 758,037 705,482
Tax reserves .. 387,898 399,138 279,671
Freeholds and lease-
holds .. ~ 1,m,911 1,112,805 1,132,628
Plant, etc. .. 356,663 409,813 442,717
Stocks ~ .. 1,192,820 1,676,379 1,782,346
Book debts .. 260,566 353,895 501,281
Cash, etc 128,662 73,615 60,086
Outlay on fixed assets was £53,227. More-
or-less liquid surplus was £152,346
stronger at £1,098,560.
At 235. 9d. (265, 7d, early in 1949) the
ords. return a satisfactory 5 p.c., and the
prefs. at 265. Id. yield 4.6 p.c., on the
basis of last term’s distribution. Ex-
cising specific reserves, net tangible
cover is £3 os. sd. prefs. and 245. 3d.
ords.
Brooke’s Lemos, Ltd. (Melb.)
r— I—Dividends 1 —Dividends N To Re- ' Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.*
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
1940 ~ 11,301 8 10 8,309 2,992 6,247
1941 .. 6,394 8 7 6,344 60 6,297
1942 .. 10,845 8 8 6,999 3,346 9,643
1943 ~ 12,675 8 8 6,999 5,676 15,319
1944 .. 10,025 8 8 6,999 3,026 18,345
Premiums from new issue, £lB,OOO 31,345
1945 .. 18,989 8 10t 12,682 6,257 37,602
1946 .. 16,556 8 8 11,197 5,359 42,961
1947 .. 16,542 8 8 11,197 5,345 48,306
1948 .. 17,234 8 8 11,198 6,036 54,342
* After deducting goodwill, etc. (now £13,090) from
published reserves, f Includes 2 p.c. Victory bonus.
The improvement in trade was more
marked than the small increase in last
year’s net earnings suggests. Still, until
the board can see mpre clearly where the
business stands in relation to markets and
costs, the policy appears to be to keep
the div. at 8 p.c., snip a bit off the debt
and strengthen the prop for capital.
There is £139,970 of capital to feed in
21,970 8 p.c. prefs, and 118,000 ords.
Chief earning assets are two well-equipped
factories, at Port Melbourne and South
Melbourne, which turn out a variety of
fruit juices and cordials, condiments and
canned fruits and vegetables, including
various tomato products. The one at
Port Melbourne was erected on Crown
land in 1943, and has cost nearly
£lOO,OOO. A capital-redemption fund
to accumulate £30,000 by 1968 has been
established. Shortages of labor, bottles
and tinplate have stood in the way of
capacity output of both plants, with the
inevitable effect upon costs, which have
been spurred by recurrent wage-lifts, the
40-hour week and transport and other
difficulties.
Last year home and export markets
absorbed the bigger output of canned
fruits, etc., that followed a good season.
But exes, gobbled nearly all the gain;
they made off with 64.3 p.c. of gross
earnings, as against 61 p.c. in 1947 and
41 p.c. in 1945:
1945. 1946. 1947. 1948.
Gross profit .. £116,461 £126,909 £119,167 £131,455
Less —
Gen. expenses 47,936 69,808 72,696 84,548
Depreciation 15,586 15,545 14,429 14,673
Tax . . 34,000 25,000 15,500 15,000
Net profit .. 18,939 16,656 16,542 17,234
The profit covered pref. requirements and
13.1 p.c. on ord. capital as against 12.5,
12.5, 14.5 and (on smaller capital) 12.6,
16.7 and 13 p.c. back to 1942.
The outlook is mixed. Another good
season is in prospect, the position in
respect of bottles and tinplate is expected
to ease presently, but labor remains short
of requirements, with little sign of im-
provement, while stocks of some lines —
chiefly jams and canned fruits —are pres-
sing heavily upon prices. Much depends
upon the export trade—about two-thirds
of the Australian output of jams and
canned fruits is sold overseas, mainly in
Britain, though new and important
markets are being opened up in the
Pacific, Southern Asia and Middle East.
To what extent, if any, the co. has been
able to re-establish its promising pre-war
connections with the N.E.I. isn’t men-
tioned, How the whittling-down of
Empire preferences at Geneva will ulti-
mately affect Australia’s canned products
in the British market remains to be seen.
The financial position improved:
1945. 1946. 1947. 1948.
Paid capital.. £139,970 £139,970 £139,970 £139,970
Mortgage .. 56,700 53,500 51,500 49,500
Creditors .. 75,638 63,564 59,503 67,762
Tax provision 52,114 59,272 37,322 32,525
Freeholds ~ 16,389 15,600 15,501 15,501
Leaseholds .. 96,799 93,159 90,720 86,781
Plant .. 53,871 48,869 56,054 57,410
Stobks .. 97,872 104,646 120,513 99,775
Debtors .. 65,673 37,270 26,024 48,831
Investments .. 5,500 7,500 7,500 7,500
Cash, etc. .. 37,724 62,542 30,608 28,620
The year’s brisker trading shows up in
the addition of £22,807 to debtors’
balances, while a drop of £20,738 in the
stocks item suggests that the management
is on guard against inventory losses. Im-
provement in the more-or-less liquid
surplus (£44,939) was £8619.
The ords. at 325. 6d. (355. a year ago)
and the prefs. at 325. each return approx.
5 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis. Net tangible
cover is £8 16s. lid. prefs. and 295. 2d.
ords.
Elder’s Trustee and Executor Co. (S.A.)
To Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves,
£ & £* &
1942.. 13,460 10 p.c. = 9000 1
' W/o freehold, £l5OO .. }• 2087 77,642
Provident fund, £873 J
1943.. 13,477 10 p.c. = 9000 1 •
W/o freehold, £l5OO .. } 1877 79,518
Provident fund, £lO7O J
1944.. 13,180 10 p.c. = 9000 1
W/o freehold. £2OOO .. \ 1075 80,595
Provident fund, £llO5 J
1945.. 11,110 10 p.c. = 9000 ]
Provident fund, £1163 f 917 »1.542
1946.. 11,179 10 p.c. = 9000 ]
W/o freehold, £6OO .. !• 290 81,832
Provident fund, £1289 I
1947.. 12,370 10 p.c. = 9000 ]
W/o freehold, £615 .. }■ 1455 83,287
Provident fund, £l3OO J
1948.. 12,848 10 p.c. = 9000 )
W/o freehold, £1056 .. f 1092 84,379
Provident fund, £l7OO J
1949.. 13,150 10 p.c. = 9000 ]
W/o freehold, £1139 .. 1 868 85,247
Provident fund, £2143 J
From the investment angle trustee-co.
scrip is essentially a holding proposition
—security with long-term prospects.
There isn’t much profit in trustee business
these days, but apart from the risk the
cos. take when investing their own
funds they don’t have to risk much; if


The “ Curvilinear ” Concentrating Table
Send for
Bulletin
and Price
ŵ
Simple
and
Reliable
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a
demonstration. Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery,
including stamp bacteries, amalgamating tables, magnetic ore
separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting valves, water- and oil-
filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories. Electric
motors and Ellison switch gear.
Guthridge Pty. Limited,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
WHO GITS THE MONEY
OUT OF LIFE ASSURANCE ?
*9
ii
*
5*
4
40P®® 1
4orf s *
When you have a policy with one of the
privately controlled Life Assurance Offices
In Australia, you enjoy benefits which other-
wise would be Impossible. Your future is
protected; you receive bonuses . . . the
“plus” in your policy ... and you make pro-
vision for your dependents should you die.
No other form of saving provides such com-
prehensive benefits . . . and nowhere else do
Life Assurance Offices give better benefits
than in Australia. That is because the manage-
ment cost of Australia’s independent life
k.
offices is as low as any in the world.
I
THREE MILLION POLICYHOLDERS ...
SEVEN AND A HALF MILLION AUSTRALIANS . ..
BENEFIT BY
LIFE ASSURANCE
ISSUED BY THE
LEADING LIFE ASSURANCE OFFICES IN AUSTRALIA
5/229 ■
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone: MX 2208.
THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney, ,
•
Under
STATE GUARANTEE.
•
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
•
Write or Call for
Free Booklet
19 O'Connell Street
(Box 7A, G.P.0.), Sydney.
p. J. F. Pullen, Public Trustee.
Sew** uhC&fv
GLOBITE
TRAVEL CASES
They're lighter, stronger, longer*
lasting. That's why a Globite
costs less In the long run.
Mad* by
FORD SHERINGTOIT LTD.
there is any serious doubt
about interpretation of a will
there is always the court to go
to for a decision. Since war be-
gan the tussle has been one be-
tween rapidly-rising costs and
steadily-growing returns from
an expanding volume of busi-
ness at fixed corpus and other
commission charges, which
have remained unchanged since
the closing decades of last cen-
tury. Shareholders’ prospects
therefore depend largely upon
how soon the steep costs gradi-
ent begins to flatten out, and,
provided Government and the’
unions refrain from doing any-
thing too foolish, hopes are
that it might do so before very
long.
For a while it looked as if
costs might endanger this co.’s
10 p.c. div., which has been an
annual event for the last 28
years. But earnings have won
the race by narrow margins,
thanks to expansion of the busi-
ness, helped by the complica-
tions and uncertainties of a
“managed” e conorii y arid
growth of population and in-
dustrial and other trade activity
in South Australia.
The value of new estates, etc.,
entrusted to the co.’s expert
care last term was £2,233,107
(up £82,192). That exceeded
the value of similar business
wound up by £619,780:
Exes.
p.c. of
Trusts. Income. Exes. Gross*
£ £ £
1939.. 13,992,312 60,874 37,649 74.0
1943.. 16,055,954 56,108 42,661 75.9
1944.. 16,361,194 56,802 43,622 76.1
1945.. 16,730,747 55,267 44,157 79.9
1946.. 17,017,289 61,057 49,878 81.8
1947.. 17,121,252 64,928 52,558 80.9
1948.. 18,011,610 73,519 60,671 82.5
1949.. 18,631,390 81,112 67,962 83.8
Exes., up 265. p.c., took all but
£302 of the £7593 by which
gross earnings increased. The
net result (£13,150) was 14.6
p.c. on capital as against 14.2,
13.7, 12.4, 12.3, 14.6 and 14.9
p.c. back to 1943. After paying
the div., sending £2143 to the
staff fund and writing £1139 off
the book-value of freeholds,
£B6B was visibly put on the
shelf, lifting reserves to £85,247,
So capital and reserves com-
bined need turn in only a shade
over 5 p.c. to cover 10 p.c. on
the £90,000 of capital alone.
At March 31 shareholders’
funds, together with £913 com-
ing to outsiders, were repre-
sented by Government securi-
ties and cash £114,046, freehold
£64,600 and book debts £4156.
At 14s. 6d, (14s. 9d. a year
ago) the pound shares paid to
ss. each return 3.4 p.c. on a 10
p.c, div. basis. The investor at
14s. 6d. who looks for a shade
over 4 p.c. on his money counts
on a 12 p.c. distribution. Net
tangible cover is 9s. 9d. a share.
Drop in the price of gold fol-
lowing adjustment of the N.Z.
sterling exchange rate sealed the
fate of Austral N.Z. Mining,
Ltd., operating on the Clutha
River (N.Z.). Anticipating pos-
sible liquidation, the board sent
plans and specifications of the
co.’s 3,500,000-c.y.-p.a. dredge to
Malaya and America, but no
offers have yet been received.
The machine, which stands in the
books at £222,140, is now en-
gaged in blind but profitable
digging of the river-bed —the
swift and deep current makes
boring impracticable. At Sep-
tember 25, 1948, there was cash
and bullion totalling £17,533 to
meet £1896 coming to sundry
creditors and £47,610 (since re-
duced to £38,629) to Austral
Malay Tin, the parent co. Paid
capital is £211,750. The market
prices the pound shares at 4s. 9d.,
or thereabouts.
WOOL DEMAND LIKELY
TO REMAIN
AHEAD OF PRODUCTION
SIR CLIVE McPHERSON, chairman of Younghusband
Ltd., told shareholders that reliable sources placed wool
consumption at approximately 25% above present pro-
duction, which would indicate at least a sound inquiry
for some time to come.
Sir Clive McPherson, who was speaking at the 60th
annual meeting of the company held in Melbourne on
Wednesday, 18th May, said:—
“Seasonal conditions for the past
year throughout the districts in which
your company is represented * have
been good, and a good lambing is
confidently anticipated this coming
season.
“Sheep numbers for Australia as
taken at the last census in March,
1948, were 102 million, which showed
an increase of about 7 million over
the previous year; anticipating a
similar increase for this year to
March, 1949, we should have in this
country today approximately 110
million, a very satisfactory recovery
from the low point of 95 million in
March, 1947. The census figures as
at March, 1949, will not be available
until September this year.
“Our cattle population in Australia,
taken at the last census in March,
1948, was 13£ million.
“The future world demand for all
classes of meat gives cause for opti-
mism, and with the development of
large areas in the Northern Territory
and in Queensland, discussions on
which are now current with the
British Empire, it appears that we
may have the opportunity of supply-
ing large quantities of beef to Great
Britain hitherto taken from Argen-
tina.
“Wheat delivered to the Australian
Wheat Board for the year 1948-49
was 175 million bushels, as against
203 million for the previous year,
WOOL
“The average price per bale at
£62/19/2 is 28.8 per cent, higher,
and the average price per lb. at
51.14 d. against 38.77 d. last year, is
31.9 per cent, higher, the variation
being accounted for by the fact that
the average weight per bale decreased
by 2.36 per cent, to 295.51 b.
“It behoves all connected with the
handling of wool to assist —and not
deter —its even flow from sheep’s
back to the ship’s hold, and any loss
in revenue resultant upon a holdup
must be reflected throughout the
community. Brokers have done all
in their power to catalogue wool as
quickly as possible, and, given con-
ditions even approaching normal,
buyers are always prepared to operate.
“However, certain phases of the
handling of the clip are beyond the
control of both, and disorganisation
at these points appears to have been
caused when the good faith and will
to work of the majority are over-
come by the influence of a few.
“It is estimated that stocks of the
Joint Organisation will be about
1.686.000 bales on 30th June of this
year if the full selling programme
up to that date is carried out. Of
this quantity approximately 1,225,000
will represent Australian wool, of
which 1,000,000 bales remain in Aus-
tralia, 415,000 bales will represent
New Zealand wool and 46,000 bales
of South African wool will still be
on hand.
“Commencing operations on Ist
August, 1945, Joint Organisation had
10.407.000 bales of Dominion wools;
decrease to this present amount
represents an annual liquidation of
approximately 2,180,250 bales, which
must be regarded as a remarkable
achievement, more particularly when
it is realised that the total world
production during that period has
also gone into consumption. The
very keen inquiry from a world
starved of wool for civilian purposes
during the war years, with resultant
high prices, has been the main factor
in the reduction of the stock pile.
“First accounts of the Joint Or-
ganisation have recently been made
public. Exclusive of the war-time
divisible profits, the net result follow-
ing the first 23 months’ trading to
June 30, 1947, shows a profit of
£31,926,383, made up of £21,349,884
from the sale of Australian wool,
£5,974,838 from the sale of South
African wool, and £4,601,661 from
the sale of New Zealand wool. At
that stage 4,515,000 bales, or rather
less than half the original stock, re-
mained on hand, but as the quantity
since sold, even if lower in style, was
disposed of in considerably higher
markets, it is reasonable to expect
that the next statement will show an
even larger profit margin.
WOOL EXPORTS *
“As was the case last season, Great
Britain continues as our largest and
most versatile buyer. Shipments to
the home country for the first seven
months of the current season
amounted to 684,798 bales, represent-
ing 32.7 per cent, of total exports,
and although this figure shows a fall
of 7,6 per cent, compared with the
corresponding period twelve months
earlier, her very consistent demand
plays an important part in the con-
sumption of our clip year by year.
America also imported direct less
wool, 147,607 bales being shipped, as
against 245,874 bales previously (40
per cent, decline), and figures for
Belgium-fell from 253,684 bales to
175,911 bales (30 per cent, decline).
“On the other hand, more active
buying by France, and Russia
was responsible for exports to these
countries rising by a total of 476,516
bales; and if shipments by the Aus-
tralian Wool Realisation Commission
to Joint Organisation, London, be
excluded, France is very near to the
United Kingdom as our largest pur-
chaser. For the same period France
imported 503,568 bales, as against
289,357 bales (74 per cent, increase);
Italy, 222,552 bales, as against 76,219
bales (192 per cent, increase); and
figures for Russia increased from a
negligible quantity of 609 bales to
116,581 bales.
“From the foregoing, it will be
seen how the nature of competition
changed this season, the decrease of
exports to America and increased
shipments to Continental countries
being the highlights.
MARKET CONDITIONS
“The future cannot be forecast, but
even at this stage reliable sources
place consumption at approximately
25 per cent, above present production,
which would indicate at least a sound
inquiry for some time to come. Joint
Organisation stocks at the present
rate of disposal cannot last beyond
the end of 1950, when we will revert
to the pre-war position of having
only the current clip to market.
STOCK TURNOVER
“Our turnover of stock during the
past year has again reached record
figures: but it must be borne in mind
that good seasons and record prices
cannot continue indefinitely, and
optimism must be tempered with
caution.
GENERAL CONDITIONS
“It is gratifying to note that steps
are being taken within the Labour
unions to deal with the menace of
Communism, which can have no
place in a healthy, prosperous society
■—constructive effort, not destructive,
is what Australia requires, above all
things, at this period of our history.
“That at present we have great
possibilities for development, there is
no doubt; but it is equally certain
we shall fritter them away unless we
prove ourselves worthy.
“The things that have proven sound
and necessary for the welfare of
society down through the ages are
still sound and necessary today—
work, honesty, discipline, respect for
the law, wisdom in Government.
“Placing of first things first and
abandoning support for the more
popular but destructive exigencies of
the moment, must be the policy of
Government, and be sponsored by
the people, before we shall stop the
drift we see around us today, which
is making men of the widest ex-
perience so apprehensive of the
future.
“Incentive for people to work and
produce is essential if we are to stem
the inflationary trend, for it will be
mainly by increased production we
shall halt the continuously rising
costs which are probably the out-
standing threat to Industry in the
immediate future. It is to be sincerely
hoped that such matters as excessive
taxation—shortage of rural labour —
will receive the favorable considera-
tion of those in authority at an early
date.
BRANCHES
“We now have 32 branches, having
acquired two during the year by the
purchase of the businesses of Messrs.
B. Gibney & Co., of Kilmore, and
K. Rourke, of Oaklands. These
branches should be valuable additions
to our already extensive chain.”


Business, Rollery, Etc.
The Sharemarket Slide
Announcement of B.H.P.’s
issue of 4,628,300 new shares of
£1 each (one for three) at a
premium of 10s. (calling for
£6,942,450 from the market al-
together) was the signal for
another almost-general decline
in share prices. B.H.P. scrip it-
self led the way, falling from
525. to around 475. at one stage,
later recovering to 48s. Before
the February slump in share
prices started B.H.P. scrip was
selling at 595.
Principal factor in last week’s
slump was that of investment
funds available (or not avail-
able), The drain on the market
by industry’s call for additional
capital over the past two years
has been very pronounced. But
it is surprising, in view of
the low premium asked, and the
fact that a large new issue was
expected from B.H.P. sooner
or later, that the stock should
again have taken such a
“header” after a fall of 7s.
earlier in the year. If forward
trading was a feature of the
market these days the slump
might have been more under-
standable. As it is, with a fall
of 11s. or 12s. a share in Aus-
tralia’s leading industrial stock
over the past three months, the
sharemarket has suffered an ex-
tremely heavy knock that re-
quires more justification than is
available.
There has been no lengthen-
ing of interest rates on Consols,
bank deposits or mortgages that
would of itself justify a demand
for longer interest rates from in-
dustrials. But there has been a
demand for a higher yield from
investment shares, and this has
been the result of the retreat
from previous overspeculation
and the optimism that was shown
as regards a speedy post-war re-
turn to full production and cor-
respondingly higher dividends.
Industry’s earning and dividend-
paying power has not risen in
proportion to the expanding
national income, and die real
national income has been re-
stricted by strikes, etc., anyway.
Adding to all the disappoint-
ment has been a fall in metal
and commodity prices overseas.
Price-inflation appears to have
been checked.
Furthermore, the sellers’
market is not so general. Spots
are appearing where buyers are
in a stronger position. Competi-
tion is getting keener, costs —so
great a bugbear—much higher.
Shareholders have not yet been
compensated for inflation.
Hopes of better yields hav-
ing been frustrated, and the
scrip-shortage of the early
post-war years having been
suddenly turned into an almost
embarrassing surplus by rea-
son of the big new issues from
public cos. and the many
smaller floats by private con-
cerns converting, the share-
market has suddenly lost that
speculative appeal which was so
much a factor in the buoyancy
evident from 1947 onwards.
The low returns accepted from
many shares at the end of 1948
were not justified without pros-
pects of dividend - increases,
and, under Socialist-Communist
industrialism and economics,
those dividends have not come
along. Share-sales by specu-
lators have produced lower
prices and then more sales. It
is invariably so when a specula-
tive bubble is pricked.
The Barrier silver-lead mines
have been directly affected by
the fall in overseas metal prices.
Their profits must fall as a re-
sult. But the long-term outlook
for lead and spelter is en-
couraging, and, though revalua-
tion of Barrier stocks is de-
manded by metal-price trends,
there is no need for panic so
far as the long-term investor is
concerned. The speculator may
not be able to afford to wait,
and he becomes a menace to the
market as well as to himself.
But, taking all the adverse
factors into account—
(l) Sharemarket indigestion;
(2) Decline in some overseas com-
modity prices;
(3) More competitive trading con-
ditions ;
(4) Inadequacy of labor, fuel and
raw materials in Australia under the
40-hour week, etc.;
(5) Costs rising ahead of controlled
selling prices;
(6) Heavy and unjust company
taxation;
(7) Dividend rates still below ex-
pectations ;
(8) Doubt as to readjustments that
might follow an exchange revalua-
tion ;
(9) Reaction from previous over-
speculation—
there appears to be a lot
of unreasoning selling in the
market today. Many temporary
investors are getting out earlier
than they intended some
hoped to allow their savings to
rest and increase in a period of
market buoyancy until they
were able to buy a house or
some other personal asset at an
appropriate time. The market
slump has beaten them. And
so a general shaking-out is
going on in the Stock Ex-
changes, during which exces-
sive movements in share prices
are almost bound to be the rule.
The market for most indus-
trial shares should now be
around bedrock. With B.H.P.
scrip at about 435. 6d. on an
ex-rights basis, giving a return of
£3 16s. 6d. per cent, if the
present rate of div. is maintained,
a basis for ultimate, gradual re-
covery in front-rank industrials
should have been established.
The market, after taking a
long-term view for some years,
has suddenly turned to a too-
short view. It has lost sight of
the purposes for which the
managements of concerns like
Bradford Cotton, British
Tobacco, 8.H.P., etc., have
issued or are issuing capital. All
these cos. intend to obtain a
full yield on the new money
eventually, and although this
takes varying periods of time,
it should not be long in the case
of Bradford Cotton, where the
setting-up of looms is a com-
paratively quick process. And
in the case of 8.H.P., a reason-
able run of the co.’s existing
plant would adequately provide
for a 10 p.c. div. on all capital,
including the new issue. But
until more coal is produced the
plant will not be able to work
at full capacity.
An idea of what new capi-
tal can do in time is to be
got from the case of Masonite.
The co. issued new ord. capital
ih 1945 at par, when it was pay-
ing 8 p.c. Last year it earned
19.7 p.c. on the increased capi-
tal and paid 12? p.c.
B.H.P.’s New Issue
The 4,628,300 new £1 shares
being issued by Broken Hill
Prop, (one for three) at a pre-
mium of 10s. a share will make
paid capital £18,500,000 and add
£2,314,150 to share-premiums
reserve. The money is needed
principally for mechanisation of
colliery properties, the building
of ore-carrying vessels and the
establishment of a wide hot-
strip mill and cold reduction
mills at Port Kembla in co-
operation with the subsidiary,
Australian Iron and Steel.
Establishment of the tinplate
mill will no doubt be a long job,
and no early return on the new
capital may be expected, but
shareholders should note that in
1939 earnings of B.H.P. (with-
out adding undistributed profits
of its subsidiaries) were suffi-
cient to pay p.c. on the pro-
posed enlarged capital, and that
present total earnings of the
B.H.P. group are more than
enough to maintain the present
8.3 p.c. The 1939 earnings are
mentioned to bring the picture
into its proper perspective.
B.H.P.’s capacity to earn (and
the capacity of the whole B.H.P.
group), given a decent amount
of coal, is now far greater than
in 1939.
Investors should also take
note of the large allowances
made for depreciation and taxa-
tion by the B.H.P. group before
arriving at net profits. B.H.P.’s
equity in the net results is about
nine-tenths:
Consolidated Figures.
(Covering both group and outside
interests.)
Gross earnings— 1947. 1948.
Working profit.. £5,868,343 £6,171,508
Divs., etc. .. 253,398 386,899
Total.. .. £6,121,741 £6,558,407
Depreciation .. 2,058,972 2,385,029
Taxation .. .. 2,057,550 2,047,958
Other exes. .. 274,406 285,010
Total exes. .. £4,390,928 £4,717,997
Net profit .. 1,730,813 1,840,410
Profit, sale assets 32,172 64,022
Similar large amounts have
been allowed for taxation, and
depreciation over the past eight
years. In fact, in eight years
more than the entire present
value of fixed assets has been
written off, and large taxation
reserves have been established.
The co. is still acknowledged
to be the producer of the cheap-
est basic steel in the world. It
is an outstanding Australian
example of industrial efficiency.
At 48s. cum rights B.H.P.
ords. are worth about 435. 6d.
ex rights. On an 8.3 p.c. div.
basis the yield will be £3 16s. 6d.
per cent, when the rights are
exercised and fully paid. For
longish-term holding the shares
look exceptionally attractive.
“Hissing Gas”
“Lemon” hisses back:
I’m not so optimistic as the share-
market about a newspaper report of
“wet gas hissing from the Oroi bore-
hole” of Oil Search’s jointly-owned
Papuan operating co.
Gas “shows,” “wet” or otherwise, in
clays or soft shales are one of the
many headaches which are the oil-
man’s lot and are known to him by
many unprintable descriptions. These
“shows” are the cause of breakdowns
in the sides of the borehole which may
result in the loss of the well unless
“ You've just missed him. Ring again in two or
three years."
the right materials for weighting the
drilling mud and the technical ex-
perience for their correct employment
are immediately available. At Oroi
there are both of these, and it is
unlikely that the gas will stop drill-
ing; it has, however, already been the
cause of serious delay there. Drilling
has been in progress at Oroi since
September, 1948, an'd gas has been
responsible for preventing deepening
of the well since November, when a
depth of 1694 feet was reached. The
whole of December and January was
spent in attempting to seal off the
difficult gassy and fissured zone be-
tween 430 ft. and 1087 ft. This was
accomplished during February, 1949,
and the depth was increased to 1749 ft.
at the end of that month. By the
end of March, 1980 ft. was reached,
but the gas “shows” were still giving
trouble and prevented the insertion
of 9-inch casing, which was attempted
during April.
It is unlikely that the Australasian
Petroleum Co., which is responsible
for the drilling at Oroi, and which
took the well at Kariava down to the
Australasian record depth of 12,621 ft.
under difficult conditions, will be de-
terred from further drilling on this
site. It is doubtful, however, if its
experts accept the presence of gassy
shale as gleefully as the sharemarket,
particularly as they know that gas is
by no means a sure sign of the
presence of oil below.
Most of the early wells drilled in
Papua were lost owing to gas and the
lack of technical skill and material
to deal with it. The latest victim
was the Papuan Apinaipi well at
Oiapu in 1940.
Anglo-Iranian chairman’s statement
as to the existence of profuse surface
indications can scarcely be classed
as news. These were observed by his
company’s geologists during their ex-
ploration for the Government in 1920,
and many were known previous to
that date. Details may be found in
the report on this work published by
the Commonwealth Government in
1930.
British-Maoriland Oil
The British Petroleum Co. of
New Zealand, Ltd., the new
“100 p.c, British” co. in which
the Maoriland Government
(three directors) and the Anglo-
Iranian Oil Co. (four directors)
are partners, has commenced
marketing petrol in the
Dominion.
Formed a little over two years
ago, the co. has constructed and
is now operating large ocean in-
stallations at the four main New
Zealand ports—Auckland, Wel-
lington, Lyttelton and Dunedin.
With the operating and com-
mercial control of the co. vested
in the parent concern (Anglo-
Iranian Oil), the capital structure
is identical with that of C.O.R.
in Australia.
Despite the Dominion Gov-
ernment’s financial holding, the
undertaking enjoys no peculiar
privileges, apart from an amend-
ment to the New Zealand Indus-
trial Efficiency Act. Without
this amendment British Petro-
leum would have been denied
entry into the Dominion market
—a strange anomaly indeed.
It is the intention of British
Petroleum eventually to enter
al( fields on the marketing side
of the petroleum industry, and,
through its associations with the
parent co. and C.O.R. in Aus-
tralia, to establish a further link
in the world-wide British Petro-
leum Aviation Service, which
now extends uninterruptedly
from Iceland to the South-West
Pacific islands, in which latter
area the new co. has already
constructed modern facilities for
the storage and handling of avia-
tion spirit.
Controls and Taxes
Slow-moving officialdom has
businessmen’s backs up in New
Zealand as weeks and months
pass while permits to import
materials or made-up goods, or
price-orders, are ground out at a
pace that trade in some
lines nearly to a standstill. With
one civil servant to every 19 of
population, against John Bull’s
one to 64, M;L. has never been
so hidebound by red-tape, and
delays are a big drag on enter-
prise that struggles to keep its
head above water in a sea of
rising costs.
Chairman Stronach Paterson,
of Bond’s Hosiery Mills (N.Z.),
Ltd., Wellington, says the jump
in production costs over the last
decade beats 70 p.c. Business
staffs put in a lot of time deal-
ing with tardy officials, as de-
partments take longer than ever
to act. Last year the co. applied
urgently for raw materials to run
its new plant, but after four
months its application was “still
under consideration” by two de-
partments—Customs and Indus-
tries and Commerce.
Trouble here is that business
falls between two stools, or
applications get lost in a maze
of byways. There’ll be no im-
provement until someone is given
authority to make smart and
businesslike decisons and de-
partmental log-rolling is cut out.
Businessmen want a tariff board,
but Finance Minister Walter
Nash and his henchmen are too
fond of power to bother about
expedition and efficiency.
Price-control has been gun-
ning for profits, while the Tax-
Department over 10 years has
seized £4 of Bond’s earnings for
every £1 paid in divs. Plenty of
other M.L. cos, have • paid as
heavily to appease the sleeping
partner, who takes no risks and
always gets first cut of profits,
and they’re all worried now com-
petition is rearing its head again,
with pounds scarcer.
Wheat and Bread
New Zealand millers aren’t
altogether happy about the
quality of Australian wheat
bought under bulk contract by
M. State Marketing Depart-
ment. Chairman A. St. Clair
Brown, of Northern Roller Mill-
ing Co., Ltd., Auckland, easily
N. biggest concern in the
milling business, with £300,000
capital, says inferior grain from
Australia and erratic shipments
have been hitting the industry,
but there’s nothing millers can
do about it because M.L. wheat-
production is less than half total
yearly needs of 10 to 11 million
bushels.
For some years Auckland
mills have gristed only Austra-
lian wheat, and even the South
Island, the home of wheat-
growing, has had to import to
cover shortages. There’s not
enough money in wheat, at
M.L.’s pegged basic price of Bs.
6d. a bushel, plus a penny a
month from March onwards, to
interest farmers, who turned to
raising fat lambs, seeds for ex-
port, and other more payable
crops which don’t have to con-
tend with controls. Australian
wheat has been costing about
9s. a bushel landed in N.Z.,
under a contract fixed up in ’47,
which yields Australia less,
and has let the Commonwealth
Treasury in for more than £6
million in subsidy to Australian
wheatgrowers to date to lift the
return on shipments to the Aus-
tralian Wheat Board’s basic
price.
When N.Z., in the past year,
wanted more than the 4| million
bushels agreed on as the annual
limit, it had to pay Australia
the ruling world price of 15s.
for 2\ million bushels. The ss.
9d. contract was hatched-out
when N.Z. wheatgrowers were
on a guaranteed price of 7s. 4d.
The rise of Is. 2d. since hasn’t
helped production, today hover-
ing round 5 million bushels a
year. Millers would gladly pay
more but for the fixed price for
flour to hold down bread prices,
but vote-conscious “Labor”
Ministers, with workers pressing
for more wages, won’t hear of
dearer bread.
With a rise of £7253 to
£62,944, profit of N.Z. News-
papers, Ltd., owner of the
Auckland “Star” and the Christ-
church “Star-Sun” and part-
proprietor of leading provincial
journals, has established a
record for the latest year (ended
March 31). The co. has made
steady headway since profits
touched bottom at £40,762 in
1943, and reserves have grown to
£lBO,OOO, not including the float-
ing balance of £66,699. A bonus
of 4d. added to the usual div. of
Is. 4d. (8 p.c.) gives shareholders
10 p.c. on the 16s. Bd. shares and
absorbs £49,792. The 8 p.c.
yield ruled for 11 years. Ex-
pansion schemes the co. has
planned would swallow up at
least a quarter of a million if
it could get them going, but
controls are an obstacle. Mount-
ing circulation for its journals
calls for more machinery and
presses, but, like many other
Maoriland concerns, it has to
nurse old plant.
* * * *
Pioneer of Maoriland paper-
manufacturing, N.Z. Paper
Mills, Ltd., Dunedin, founded
44 years ago, is encountering a
growing challenge today from
newer enterprises, located in the
north, but earnings in the past
three years, since its setback in
1945, when much pulp imported
by the Government turned out
unsuitable for the co.’s mills,
have been high enough to re-
turn shareholders a steady 7
p.c. and raise floating funds by
£5OOO-odd to £34,862. (The
State paid compensation to
atone for its slip.) The co.’s
best years were back in the first
World War, when it had the
market largely to itself and divs.
reached 10 p.c. Revived com-
petition in the ’twenties knocked
it back a bit, and its next really
good spell didn’t come until the
second World War, when pos-
session of new plant gave it the
chance it wanted. High costs
are the main hurdle today.


si -S v •I s
■a
II
: wm
df
f,
(>ll
a -ij
I M '
- ■
JL
sms.
Get there first with w Grinnell Protection
Fire works overtime. Strikes at the most inopportune moment . . . generally when your factory or store
is deserted. That’s why you must get there first . . . with Grinnell protection.
Grinnell Automatic Sprinklers kill fire at its source automatically. They are your ever vigilant,
silent watchmen on duty 24 hours out of 24.
That is why Grinnell protection is your safeguard today against the loss of irreplaceable goods and
valuable equipment and plant.
Can you wonder why "Grinneil Protected” buildings
carry a rebate of approximately 50% on all fire insurance
premiums.
Because a Grinneil Installation is tailored-to-fit,
your architect can make it a blended part of your new
building’s design. Or it can be installed with a minimum
of disruption in an existing building.
Wormald Brothers maintain a complete Fire
Protection Service in all States and New Zealand.
Experienced engineers will help you plan dependable
protection for any type of fire risk.
AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER AND FIRE ALARM SYSTEM
WORMALD BROTHERS
PTY. LIMITED
F ire Protection Engineers since 1889
SYDNEY, NEWCASTLE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, HOBART,
WELLINGTON, AUCKLAND, CHRISTCHURCH, DUNEDIN.


IXL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operatire Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:— •
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—*
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING— INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
HOW TO REDOCE
DELIVERY COSTS
.
ss
m mm
<W<tj
■IHIBHHBH
mm
mmmm
1:1.
WLLd.
m
m
FnTTB32.l<
I//S6 Oj
f\OH£l
THE VAM WITH THE EXTRA SPACE
Carries more . . .
Ford Ten-Ten is cleverly laid out to give you the
maximum amount of loadspace for 10 cwt.
bulk. On a 90" wheelbase, and with semi-
forward control, you have a full-sized van body
of 120 cubic feet ! Wide doors, front and rear,
save valuable handling time. The van is easy
to turn and park in narrow streets. And with
its trim modern appearance it will carry your
name as smartly as it carries your goods.
Costs less ...
Basic costs are lower purchase price, registra-
tion, insurance and depreciation. Operating
costs are less too, with 10 h.p. economy for
stop-and-go running, and a sturdy chassis
engineered throughout to carry the full
10 cwt. payload.
-157**-
45*
Check these gener-
ous measurements
against the loads
you will normally
need to carry.
Your Ford Dealer will gladly call and show you how the Ten-Ten will save money for YOUR business.
✓
Place your order with your local Ford Distributor or Dealer
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. ITD. {INC. IN VIC.) REG. OFFICE: GEELONG, VIC.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
“Warmongering.”
It’s the U.S. that’s castigated
under this heading in a recent
Washington “Post” leader:
“It would be hard to convince
a foreigner reading the latest
wave of publicity exploits by the
[U.S.] Air Force that the United
States is not hell-bent for war.
First came the round-the-world
flight of the B-50 and attendant
interpretations of U.S. ability to
bomb any spot in the world.
Then the story that the B-36
had flown 9600 miles non-stop,
carrying a bomb-load 5000
miles. Then the Air Force ‘find-
ing’ that Russia has no adequate
defence against the B-36.
Finally, there comes what ap-
pears to be an inspired leak to
the effect that some 70 strate'gic
targets in Russia have been ear-
marked as possible bombing
objectives and that the Air Force
has assured the Joint Chiefs of
Staff that each of these cities
could bo attacked from bases on
this continent.”
Describing all that as “an
utterly inexcusable piece of pro-
vocation,” Washington “Post”
adds: —
“Even the blustering of the
Russians has never approached
tins. Such exhibitionism is of a
piece with the military huckster-
ing that has coincided with
the Congressional appropriation
hearings. The effect, to anyone
not cognisant with the facts, is
to indict us [Americans] as a
nation of warmongers where the
military has run wild. What
must be the reaction to such
stories in Europe, where the very
essence of our efforts is to
counteract fears of war? How
much more dangerous must be
the reaction in Russia, if the
Russians are actually the victims
of an insecurity complex!”
The paper calls for the
muzzling of “irresponsible zea-
lots before they talk us into
war.” What it would seem to
overlook is that Congress has
been showing itself in a stubborn
mood regarding additional allo-
cations for rearming Europe, so
a good issue of war-talk might
have been counted on to have
a scare value. It could also be
counted on to have a similar
effect around the Kremlin. An-
other point overlooked would
seem to be that countries don’t
start wars because they are
“victims of an insecurity com-
plex”: they do so when they
think they can win.
U.S. Fancy Figures.
From recent air-mailed issues
of “U.S. News and World Re-
port”:—
Why “the gold standard isn’t
making a comeback” : All the
gold mined in the world since
1492 is valued in today’s
dollars at $40,000,000,000. In
the year beginning next July 1,
the U.S. Government plans to
spend more than $45,000,000,000
in cash —that is, an amount
greater than the value of all the
gold produced in all countries
in 456 years.
The whole world today owns
$38,000,000,000 of monetary
gold. Of that, the U.S. has
$24,000,000,000—far more than
all the rest of the world com-
bined. Yet the U.S. gold stock,
most of it buried underground
at Fort Knox, represents only a
little more than half of a single
year’s cash spending by the U.S.
Government.
Hence, as those figures empha-
sise, gold has lost its traditional
place as a measure of money, in
the U.S. as.in other countries.
* * * *
For rearming the Western
nations: Of the 25,000 tanks it
had at the end of World War 11,
the U.S. Army still has about
16,000 in working order, U.S.
needs only 6714 of them for its
minimum M-Day (next-war
mobilisation) force of 18 divi-
sions, leaving up to 9286 avail-
able for the new lend-lease —
enough to equip 25 armored
divisions in Western Europe.
Also, there’s lashins of ammo
—more than 7,000,000 tons of
it of various kinds on hand in
the U.S.
These and other astronomical
supplies are counted on to save
thousands of millions of dollars
in proposed U.S. rearming of
Europe. However, the defensive
weapons that Western Europe
needs most —anti-tank artillery,
rocket-guns, vehicles for mobile
defence—are the least plentiful.
They’d have to be made. One
thing, they’d be up-to-date,
which some of the other stuff
mightn’t be.
* * * *
Defence spending versus social
spending in the U.S.: As quoted
from an address by Edwin G.
Nourse, chairman of President
Truman’s Council of Economic
Advisers, the $15,000,000,000-a-
-year outlay on the defence side
(approximately $300,000,000
each week) gives a sorry look to
other expenditure on the U.S.
home-front. For example, it is
proposed to spend for the next
fiscal year as a whole
$300,000,000 for Federal aid to
education and less than
$300,000,000 for the promotion
of public health.
That is to say, but for the com-
pelling need to halt the Soviet
aggression against civilisation
the great bulk of the stupendous
defence appropriation would
either remain in the U.S. tax-
payers’ pockets or would be
available for social services of
one sort or another. The “cold
war,” in the year beginning next
July 1, is scheduled to cost U.S.
taxpayers $11,000,000,000. When
that’s spent —by mid-1950—the
“cold war” will have lasted three
years and cost the U.S. a total
of about $24,000,000,000.
♦ * * *
Government Costs: U.S.
Federal Government is already
getting through $42,000,000,000
a year. For whatever comfort
the U.S. taxpayer may be able
to find in it, the rate represents
19 per cent, of the national in-
come, whereas the figure for
Britain is over 40 per cent.;
some put it as high as 45 per
cent.
Former President Herbert
Hoover’s commission of inquiry
into administrative expenditure
came up with the finding that
U.S. taxpayers are coughing up
no less than a
year merely for “red-tape”
alone. Mr. Hoover epitomised
his mountainous finding in the
masterly understatement “stag-
gering waste.” The total he
found could be saved by ad-
ministrative reform was over
$3,000,000,000 a year,
Here’s how some of it goes:
The Government’s civilian
agencies make 3,000,000 pur-
chases a year, half the transac-
tions involving less than $lO
each. A purchase-order itself
costs more than $lO to put
through the “red-tape” process,
so on some 1,500,000 separate
purchases each year taxpayers
pay more than double the actual
price.
Merely spending the total
$42,000,000,000 is an immense
undertaking; in fact, it could
not be done without machines,
such as some of those in the
Treasury Department. These
machines “stamp out 100
cheques a minute —printing,
signing, counting and inserting
them in envelopes in one smooth
operation.”
They’re certainly needed: “to
pay its bills and meet its fay-
roll” the U.S. Federal Govern-
ment writes no fewer than
267,000,000 cheques a year.
Properly impressed by that
immensity, “U.S. News and
World Report” points out: “If
laid end to end, these cheques,
in one year, would reach all the
way around the world once and
would extend about 6000 miles
on the second turn.”
Policy for Germany.
Two official U.S. pronounce-
ments of policy for Germany,
for comparing, one way or the
other, with the outcome of the
latest Foreign Ministers’ Confer-
ence;—
General Clay, on the eve of
concluding his Military Gover-
norship : “With the establish-
ment of West German Govern-
ment, Military Government will
cease, which is timely. Military
Government has fulfilled its pur-
pose. A West German Govern-
ment can develop in the demo-
cratic tradition only as it is
given the right to associate with
nations which have long tradi-
tions of democratic government,
and it can form such association
more readily under the guiding
hands of a civilian high commis-
sion.
“The time for punitive plea-
sures has ended. Goodwill and
a helping hand are needed, not
only to create the new Govern-
ment but to make it [Germany]
feel that it is wanted back in
the comity of free nations as
quickly as it has demonstrated
its own will to be free [i.e.,
through, and by the nature of,
its Government].
“The forming of an associa-
tion of the free nations of Wes-
tern Europe with Germany in-
tegrated therein will create last-
ing stability in Europe and will
not only end the threat of Com-
munist expansion but will make
it difficult for the Communist
front to keep intact It is the
only sure way to peace.”
* * ♦ *
Secretary of State Acheson:
“There are certain principles the
observance of which is essential,
in our view, to any satisfactory
solution of the German prob-
lem and which we shall have to


Millions Of Unknown Diabetics
Diabetes is on the increase (millions in the world to-day have
it without knowing). This report in June Reader’s Digest
describes those most likely to be attacked . . . only known
remedy . . . how modern treatment enables diabetics to lead
normal lives; also how to learn whether you may be a victim.
Also in June Reader’s Digest
Lessons from Britain's Socialist
Experiment. Until 1945, Alfred
Edwards thought Socialism
would bring a fairer, fuller life
for all. The former head of the
British Labor Party uses actual
cases to show why Socialism
can’t possibly work . . . why it
may even serve as a means for
Reds to take over a govern-
ment.
That astonishing creature: the
baby! Put him in water and
he’ll swim (with head under
water, like a fish, alas!). For
months he’s immune to many
maladies. George Kent shows
how the baby, physically,
mentally and psychically, is a
better man than you knows
how to get what he wants
even before birth.
Which IS the stronger sex?
Women are more resistant to
disease, face crises better (such
as operations, loss of money or
of sexual activity) even live
longer, says George Lawton. He
shows why modern living tends
to produce widows . . . what
women may do to keep their
men living longer.
Occupation housewife. Feel
you haven’t made anything out
of life . . . that you’re “just a
housewife”? Dorothy Thompson
shows how “housewife" means
you’ve mastered a dozen occu-
pations from cook to dress-
maker, nurse to accountant . . .
why, without knowing it, you’re
even a philanthropist.
At last, tyres without tubes.
Run 50 times over a board with
giant nails, the tyre lost no air.
If you drive a heavy bolt into
it, it seals itself when the bolt's
pulled out. Story of new
Goodrich tyres that fit airtight
against the rim . . . their cost
. . . how combat requirements
gave a young man the idea.
Hair curling success story.
Home permanents are saving
women millions a year. How 2
hustling brothers spread Toni
(in Australia hundreds of thou-
sands of kits have already been
sold) . . . and how their "strug-
gling beauty supply company"
has mushroomed into a 20
million dollar enterprise.
In this issue—more than
30 articles of lasting in-
terest, selected from lead-
ing magazines and current
books, and condensed to
save your time.
READ AND ENJOY JUNE
Readers Digest
ONE SHILLING All Newsagents and Bookstalls
keep firmly in mind in whatever
the future may bring.
“The people of Western Ger-
many may rest assured that this
[U.S.] Government will agree to
no general solution for Germany
into which the basic safeguards
and benefits of the existing Wes-
tern German arrangements
would not be absorbed. They
may rest assured that until such
a solution can be achieved this
Government will continue to
lend vigorous support to the de-
velopment of the Western Ger-
man programme.
“The people of Europe may
rest assured that this Govern-
ment will agree to no arrange-
ments concerning Germany
which do not protect the security
interests of the European com-
munity.
“The people of the United
States may rest assured that in
any discussions relating to the
future of Germany this Govern-
ment will have foremost in mind
their deep desire for a peaceful
and orderly solution of these
weighty problems which have
been the heart of so many of our
difficulties in the post - war
period.”
Armament Economy.
Recalling that the problem of
the ’twenties after World War I
was the disposal of surpluses,
“U.S. News and World Report”
editor David Lawrence sees
“how to sell surplus production”
looming up as the problem of
the ’fifties also, and comments:
“America is spending
$15,000,000,000 a year for arma-
ment. Russia, according to her
official budget estimates, is
spending in 1949 approximately
the same sum-
“An armament economy isn’t
a sound economy. On the
assumption that it is unavoid-
able, it is being maintained. But
even with an armament economy
there is a surplus of goods in
producing countries like the
United States. And Germany
will soon be back in the ranks
of producing countries on a
large scale.”
Planned Spuds.
Washington “Post” states that
the U.S. Government spent
more on potatoes last year than
it did for either the Department
of Commerce or the Labor De-
partment. “Supporting spuds
costs about 60 per cent, as much
as all the far-flung activities of
the Department of the Interior,
including Hawaii, Alaska, Puerto
Rica, the Virgin Islands and
other possessions overseas.”
In the less rhetorical language
of U.S. Secretary of Agricul-
ture Charles F. Brannan, “Pota-
toes are costing [the U.S. Gov-
ernment] almost $1,000,000
every working day under the
present programme.”
Up to March 14, the U.S. Pro-
duction and Marketing Adminis-
tration had bought 110,256,200
bushels of the 1948 crop at a net
cost of $182,000,000; with more
to come.
On the sheer waste involved:
A Chicago “scavenger” bought
truckloads of the Government’s
spoiling spuds at 1 cent a bag,
dumped the spuds on a pig-
farm, then washed the bags and
sold them for 10 cents each —a
profit of 900 per cent.
Experts estimate the loss on
last year’s crop at $200,000,000.
How the “planners’ ” figures
habitually expand and get out of
hand is indicated by the fact that
the largest previous loss was
$91,000,000 in 1946.
It works around in a magic
circle: with the prices kept up
by the “planned controls” the
spuds continue to be worth
growing, and that leads to over-
production, There is another in-
teresting element leading to the
same result; improved farming
methods: The crop yield for the
entire U.S. last year averaged
212.4 bushels an acre. Only 15
years before, in 1933, it was 100
bushels, while as recently as 10
years ago it was only 124. To-
day U.S. farmers raise more
potatoes on half an acre than
they did a few years ago on an
entire acre.
What with spuds, eggs and
other land products, “The U.S.
Government right now,” says a
Scripps-Howard report, “has
$2,000,000,000 invested in hold-
ing up farm prices, equivalent
to $13.50 apiece for every man,
woman and child in 4he
country.”
To which might well be
appended a few words of wisdom
recently uttered by that wise old
bird, Bernard M. Baruch:
“That there is something new
and magical in the idea of plan-
ning is a myth. With the touch
of the magic planning wand,
everything is supposed to fall
into place or, as in the story of
Cinderella, pumpkins are trans-
formed into coaches. You have
—Atlanta (U.S.A.) “Journal.”
BABES IN THE WOOD.
seen planners of all sorts in every
country —and look at the mess.
Without America, where would
the world be? Some of the'
worst mistakes of modern times
were committed by Government
planners.”
Tradition v. Corns.
Risking the charge of wishful
thinking, a London “Times”
special correspondent in China
winds up two long articles on the
current chaos there by subscrib-
ing to a view hopefully propa-
gated in America: that tradi-
tional China will be the final
victor.
There are, he says, three main
forces —Communist doctrine, the
political ambitions of Russia
and Chinese civilisation. Hold-
ing the last to be the strongest
as well as the oldest, he con-
cludes that the outcome of the
interaction between those forces
may not be what the Kremlin
would like:
“China has a marked capacity
for absorbing and adapting the
extraneous; and it will be a
sharp departure from historical
precedent if Communism —a,
theory of government never yet
put into practice anywhere on
our planet—was evolved by a
nation of conservative indi-
vidualists into anything closely
resembling the form of con-
tagious tyranny visualised by its
present sponsors.”
Ahead of Israel.
With its admission to U.N.O.
on May 12, most reports agree
that the immediate future of the'
new State of Israel is as rosy as
Abie’s piece of Irish.
All the loans Israel will need
for the utmost development are
certain from the U.S., either
directly or by influence. There
are even signs that many who
have hitherto strongly opposed
the idea are becoming recon-
ciled to ultimate Israeli control
of all Jerusalem.
That is the present and the
near future. Doubts are con-
cerned with the distant view.
Thus, a Tel Aviv correspondent
of N. Y. “Times” —the paper a
staunch, though never fanatic,
supporter of Israel —lately re-
ported that it was becoming
more apparent each day that,
while Israel might have won a
military battle, it stood a chance
of losing a political war. Among
his other points in support, he
stated:
“Political pressure is being
slowly but surely applied against
Jews throughout the Arab world
and also in Eastern European
countries that have prevented
them from emigrating.
“Hope for real lasting peace
is considered slim indeed if after
armistice pacts are signed the
Arab States continue to treat
the Jews in their countries as
social outcasts
“A disturbing thought is”
that no step has been taken by
any country to prevent outrages
such as occurred in Algiers and
Morocco, or to annul anti-Jewish
legislation as found in Iraq and
Syria....
“Threats are propagated daily
by Arab Press and Radio urging
economic boycotts against
15rae1....”
Also on the distant view, N. Y.
“Daily News” writer John
O’Donnell lately recalled a
“News” interview with a top
Arab military leader about the
time the Israel-Arab clash began.
Said the Arab: “For the first
six months we’ll probably be
beaten. For the next five or -10
years we’ll hold our own. Then
we will begin to fight. Perhaps
it will be for a generation. Per-
haps two generations. Let us
remember that it took us 300
years to get rid of the Crusaders
and several hundred years to
oust the Turks.”
Chops, 7s. 9d. a Pound.
That’s in Australian money,
and it’s the price they’re forking
out for loin lamb chops in the
U.S. Rib lamb chops are com-
paratively cheap—only the dol-
lar equivalent of 6s. 4d. the
pound.
Being typical of costs
generally, that goes to explain
the N. Y. “World-Telegram”
heading “Working Girls Manage
to Live on $4O a Week” ; actu-
ally the screw is $40.13 —say,
£AI2 10s. The “working girls”
referred to are stenographers,
and they manage the feat “only
by living at home and exercising
thrift.” They all said they
couldn’t get through on it living
away from home and Mum,
So no doubt this fetching ad-
vertisement (air-mailed the other
day) would, failing a trousered
bunny, have to be sadly passed
over: —
“Those thick, juicy, tender
Gallagher Steaks have been re-
duced in price. The same gener-
ous portion, the same fine
mouth-watering quality famous
for 15 years—now $3.75.”
Just the bare 235. the plate in
Australian cash.
Socialism Digs In.
Even if Labor in Britain is
beaten in next year’s elections,
“the nationalisation so far ac-
complished will remain,” com-
ments a “Christian Science
Monitor” observer. “To un-
scramble the picture would just
be too difficult.
“But as to methods of apply-
ing national controls, the Con-
servatives would have plenty to
say, and Laborites know that
much of their programme could
be left intact in form and yet be
greatly modified in practice.”
The controls involved in what
has already been done must
therefore be made foolproof,
“by making them fair enough in
operation to win the confidence
of all sections of society,
workers, managers and owners
of non-nationalised industries
alike. That is a sizeable task on
which British Labor is working
and on which most of its efforts
probably will centre for some
time to come.”
Dragnet Digest.
Today’s Prize Wishful Thought. —
Quoted in a London “Times” leader
from a Paris “Le Monde” leader:
“Nothing prevents one from imagin-
ing that one day other republics, now
outside the [British] Commonwealth,
may ask to join it.”
* * * *
Kiss Them Good-night, Sam-
Major I —These opening sentences
from a recent lengthy N. Y. “Times”
report should start something good in
the Sarn-majors’ Section, Valhalla:
“This is the new [U.S.] Army, as pic-
tured by leaders of its Special Services
Division, who should know: Four out
of five enlisted soldiers are less than
25 years old. They seem to be shifting
from beer to soft drinks and sweet
music. They nearly all have cameras
which they use frequently, and they
like to pitch horseshoes.”
* * * *
Wheat to Burn. —Perhaps literally.
At any rate, the U.S. Agriculture
Department sees the country harvest-
ing the second-largest winter wheat-
crop on record; and, with some
800,000,000 bushels of last year’s crop
still in storage, experts are quoted
as estimating there will be the
staggering surplus of 2,000,000,000
bushels when the harvest is in. It
is further reported that storage space
will be far from sufficient —and “pro-
ducers cannot profit from Federal
price-supports on wheat that is piled
on the ground. This means much
wheat will be sold at a severe loss.”
* * * *
Jap Juvenile Crime. —Perish any
thought of cause and effect! Jap
juvenile crimes (as reported by a
Tokyo correspondent of N. Y.
“Times”) totalled 46,000 in 1937, the
year of the “China incident”; 82,000
in 1945, the year of the surrender;
and 250,000 out of a total of 520,000
recorded criminal offences last year,
the third year of the American occu-
pation.
* * * *
Gap in Britain’s Trade. —Trans-
lated from the Cripps to the “U.S.
News and World Report” language
“British exports to dollar countries
are not up to snuff.” In fact, “a
smaller share of British exports is
going to North America than before
the war. Actually, 19 times as much
is sold to Australia as to North
America. These hard facts take the
edge off the new records being hung
up by British exports. Plenty is
being sold. But it isn’t going to the
right places if Britain is to stand
without U.S. crutches in 1952, when
th'e Marshall Plan ends.”
* * * *
The Silken Threads. —It might
cynically be said that U.S. welcome
for the building, or botchery, by the
London Commonwealth Conference
is, after all, natural enough, since the
changes in the British structure all
add to the relative U.S. stature. Cer-
tainly the applause has been prac-
tically unanimous. “It almost seems,”
Washington “Post” has typically com-
mented, “that the way to build up an
association is to do without one. At
any rate, this applies to Portugal and
England,- between whom a mere
alliance of six centuries past has
deepened into a relation without equal
between two sovereign nations, per-
haps between any two dominions.”
* * * *
Voluntary Health Insurance. —Mr.
Truman having declared in the zeal
of his compulsory-health-insurance
campaigning that only 3,500,000
Americans had insurance that pro-
vided adequate health protection and
that adequate medical care was
beyond the means “of all but the
upper-income group,” the American
Medical Association countered that
no fewer than 55,000,000 were pro-
tected under voluntary health insur-
ance against hospital costs and
37,000,000 insured against surgical or
medical bills. As for the cost, “Any
family which can afford a package of
cigarettes a day, or a weekly movie,
can afford the finest kind of pre-paid
medical and hospital protection: the
cost is about the same.”
* ♦ ♦ ♦
Dangerous Ignorance. —G e n e r a I
Eisenhower speaking: “Ignorance of
Communism, Fascism, or any other
Police-State philosophy, is far more
dangerous than ignorance of the most
virulent disease.”
♦ * ♦ *
The Tories Accept. —Giving his side
its old name of Tory, Robert
Boothby, leader of Britain's Young
Conservatives party, has indicated
that, with a Tory win, there’ll not be
any counter-revolution against what
Socialism has established. “Britain,”
he said, “has undergone one of the
greatest social revolutions in her his-
tory. We [Tories] accepted the revo-
lution of 1832, and governed England
for a considerable part of the nine-
teenth century in consequence. lam
glad to tell you we have accepted the
revolution of 1945 and are looking
forward to governing England for a
good part of the rest of this century.”
Maybe; but it sounds a thin sub-
stitute for an election-winning policy.
* * * *
A-Bomb Not Decisive. From
Must We Hide?, by Dr. R. E. Lapp,
American scientist who has worked
on the U.S. atom-bomb project from
its earliest days: “It will be well for
Americans to stop thinking that
atomic bombs and high-speed
bombers are all that we need. How,
for example, would these prevent a
westward push from the Baltic to the
English Channel? Would even a
very large number of A-bombs prove
an effective deterrent to such a push?
The author’s personal belief is that
it would not. Are we going to
depend upon the A-bombs alone,
and, if so, will they be used indis-
criminately? There is no doubt that
the A-bomb is an effective weapon,
but it is not a decisive weapon. It
will be tragic for Americans to dis-
cover this truth too late.”
* * * *
Montgomery on Defence. —Field-
Marshal Lord Montgomery speaking
on defence preparedness for Western
Europe, but with a wider applica-
tion; “Those forces which are main-
tained in peace-time must be in such
a state of readiness that they can get
into action at once; there must be
a plan for rapid and effective mobili-
sation, based on the existence of a
proper framework for reservists to
fit into; there must be a plan for
quick expansion if found to be neces-
sary ; and, lastly, there must be
proper machinery for bringing into
operation rapidly a planned system
of civil defence. In an age in which
speed is the dominant factor, unless
a nation is as ready for war as a
fire brigade is ready to extinguish a
conflagration, in no circumstances
can it make good its peace-time
deficiencies.”


♦
FIRST IN 1888...
FIRST TO-DAY!
NO OTHER BATTERY
CAN MATCH EXIDE'S
61 YEARS' EXPERIENCE
EMMS BATTERIES Of AUSTRALIA Pit Life. 44 BRIDGE STREET* SYDNEY
SCO I vx
PERSONAL ITEMS
The Navy has lost a destroyer man,
and, it follows, a good seaman —Com-
mander Arthur Storey, D.S.C. and Bar,
who goes from the bridge of destroyer
Bataan to the corresponding directing-
point of the Joint Intelligence Bureau, in
Melbourne. His duties will be familiar ;
before driving Bataan into Japanese-
occupation waters he was Director of
Naval Intelligence. One of the Jervis
Bay snotties, he specialised in gunnery,
and for two years of World War 1
fought his guns in the Atlantic and
North Sea and into the Mediterranean.
The closing stages found him staff officer
operations to the Australian Squadron,
and, when the cease-fire bells rang, doing
the same job with carriers of the British
Pacific Fleet.
Presided at the birth of the local Volks-
wagen, now on trial in Victoria, Laurence
John Hartnett is well equipped for the
new venture. English-born, son of a
medico, he could hardly have picked a
better school to learn his engineering—
Vickers-Armstrong’s huge works at
Barrow. He flew with the R.N. Air
Service in the Kaiser’s War, before trans-
ferring to the R.A.F. General Motors
(U.S.A.) claimed him in 1926, when he
became the co.’s factory representative
for all India, later its sales manager in
Stockholm, and, after a spell with Vaux-
hall Motors, General Motors-Holden’s
g.m. in 1934, with headquarters in Mel-
bourne. Five years later he was man-
aging-director. Yachting, tennis and golf
claim such spare time as he gets.
, Reached his 80th milestone, still spry,
Walter Wyche, since Queensland Uni-
versity’s inception its janitor, student-
guide, philosopher and friend. The uni.
will miss more than his caretaking when
it shifts to St. Lucia without him.
Another of the “Terrible Ten” has
retired from the Victorian Force —
Superintendent Henry Carey, who was
the brain behind most of that State’s
murder investigations between 1930 and
1943. A farmer before he donned uni-
form in 1912, he was transferred to the
C. 1.8. in 1923, when his first big job was
to help in trapping Angus Murray, the
gunman who murdered a Glenferrie bank-
manager that year and hanged for it.
Melbournites will remember the Greek
Club bombings, the Coles hold-up, the
Glenroy murders and the Dumosa Dam
murder ihystery, in all of which Carey
had a retributive hand. After he’d
cleared up the murders by the American
soldier Leonski, who ran amuck during
the war, Carey was accepted as Vic-
toria’s No. 1 sleuth. Age-limit takes him
off the strength.
Chairman of Maoriland’s new Licens-
ing Control Commission, A. M. Gould-
ing is an s.m. of Wellington ; in his early
legal life he practised at Suva. He col-
lected an M.C. with the Rifle Brigade
in World War I.
An honor usually reserved for G.-Gs.
and State Governors has fallen on Briga-
dier Arthur Blackburn, V.C. —the two-
war Digger has been appointed honorary
Colonel of Adelaide’s University Regi-
ment, the first such appointment S. Aus-
tralia has made since the war. Now
a Commonwealth conciliation Commis-
sioner, Blackburn was a lawyer when he
joined the old 10th Battalion and headed
for Gallipoli. Just over a year later —he
was commissioned by then —his gallantry
in a nasty piece of fighting at Pozieres
won the V.C., but a bad wound collected
there brought him home. Three years in
the S.A. Assembly as member for Sturt
cured him of politics,; and he was Ade-
laide’s City Coroner when the second call
came. He rejoined the A.I.F. and led
the “Blackforce” on a forlorn hope into
Java, ending with three years in Jap
prison camps.
“Recco”: Sydney Camm, the man who
put the Hurricane into the Battle of
Britain, recently collected the Royal Aero-
nautical Society’s British Gold Medal for
practical achievement in aeronautics.
Some of the designer’s others are the
Typhoon, Demon, Tempest and Fury;
but the lifesaving old Hurricane will
always remain synonymous with Camm’s
name. The medal had been previously
awarded only three times.
Lionel Hooke, managing-director of
A.W.A., first indulged the exploratory
trait in his make-up when he pushed
South Polarwards with Shackfeton in
1913; he extended it by exploring
for U-boats in R.N. sub-chasers during
World War I, before transferring to pilot-
ing in the service’s Air Force. Nowa-
days his exploring is done by air-waves.
When Vulcan and Matupi burst out at
Rabaul in 1937, some quick thinking was
called for at the Sydney end, and Hooke,
then g.-m. of A.W.A., maintained the
mainland’s only link with a handful of
wireless-men still in the hot-spot. The
A.W.A. co. made vast contributions in
equipment and research to the war effort;
now a team of its specialists is working
at pressure on television. On a recent
American tour Hooke saw the new science
applied in presenting pictures of New
York’s traffic-jams to policemen con-
cerned, a carrier’s planes taking-off
for a mock battle (a pointer to armchair
views of the next war?) and theatre opera-
tions televised throughout a hospital. But
even with A.W-A.’s major resources
turned on the problem, he thinks Aus-
tralia must wait at least two years for
the new entertainment.
One of the best-known of that one-
man-band breed, the country policeman,
Queenslander Inspector G. E. Collyer
retired last week after 39 years of law-
keeping in the north-west, from Towns-
ville to Cloncurry and Innisfail to Long-
reach. He had charge of the Valley
district of Brisbane when his badge went
in.
Ronald Syme, who had a bright
scholastic career at Victoria and Auck-
land Universities (M.L.) and went to
Oxford 20 years ago, has recently settled
in the Camden chair of ancient history
there. Save for service in the Balkans
and Turkey during World War II he
has been at Oxford since he left home.
Bill Aitken, Lord Beaverbrook’s
nephew, was unconcerned as to any
damage Prior might inflict on his dial;
when you’ve pranged in a Mustang, and
had back, elbow, wrist and skull broken,
with one leg crushed and a sliver of steel
through your nose, and lived, there
doesn’t seem much hope for a pencil.
Out here as g.-m. of Beaverbrook’s “Ex-
press” news and feature service, Aitken
first drew breath in Nova Scotia, worked
on Canadian and U.S. papers, headed
Londonwards to a cub-reportership on
his uncle’s “Evening Standard” and has
held down most newspaper jobs since.
He interrupted his journalism to fly Ly-
BILL AITKEN, of the Beaverbrook clan.
sanders on special missions in the Battle
of Britain, shifted to Mustangs, and when
taking-off to meet Goering’s minions met
a railway-embankment instead. After the
war he tried politics in the 1945 election,
was pipped by a hundred-odd votes, and
is having a shot next time for the Bury-
St.-Edmunds seat. A tall, affable fellow
cast in the characteristic Beaverbrook
mould of rugged intensity, he is looking
over the “Express’s” feature-service in
Maoriland before heading back to Fleet-
street.
This expansive smile belongs to John
Duncan, general-manager of the Alba
Petroleum Co. of Australia. Oft by plane
to America, England and the Troubled
Continent to study post-war developments
in petroleum marketing, he has another
aim—oil-research with an eye to future
developments in Australia, particularly
those new-field prospects in the West. He
joined the Alba Company as g.-m. in
JOHN DUNCAN, of Ampol.
1935, since when the Australian co. has
made tepid strides and has amalgamated
with Australian Motorists’ Petrol Co.,
now trading as Ampol in four States.
He has something unusual in the way of
a public-relations officer —Bisset of the
Queen Mary.
Retired from the post of supervising
technician of telephone installations in
Melbourne after 40 years’ service, James
William Pellew put through, in March,
1942, one of the swiftest and most im-
portant jobs in the history of the
P.M.G.’s Department. Asked at 5 p.m.
one day to instal a 100-way switchboard
at Menzies’ Hotel, complete with associ-
ated exchange lines and extensions, he
had the service going at eight next morn-
ing in time for General MacArthur’s
arrival.
Another old hand in carrier Sydney,
and an anchoring influence on the spirits
of her young “sparkers,” C.P.O, Tele-
graphist Dan Bowden, whose service cer-
tificate must be chock-a-block with names
of ships he’s served in during 25 years
afloat. Hailing from Black Rock, on
Port Phillip, he tasted deep-sea salt
as a boy second-class in 1925. In a Fleet
minesweeper at the outbreak of war, he
was drafted shortly after to cruiser Perth,
where one of his jobs was wireless air-
gunner in the ship’s Seagull amphibian.
When over the Mediterranean, the Seagull
was attacked by Bowden
met them with his Single machine-gun,
and in the resultant stoush the port tank
was sot on fire, the flames sweeping over
his head. Then his cockpit’s distress
signals exploded, and in this local Hades
Bowden fought off the atjtack before
grabbing the signals and heaving them,
burning, over the side. For this, a “men-
tion.” Stuart of Matapan was his next
ship, and though he just missed that
action he saw plenty in the Tobruk runs
and bombings that followed. He com-
missioned Sydney this year,
Sydney intellectual life loses through
the departure of Thorleiv Hytten,
economic adviser to the Bank of New
South Wales, who becomes Vice-
Chancellor of the University of Tas-
mania. Originally from the great Scan-
dinavian shipbuilding town of Tbnsberg,
Hytten looks more like a Norse sea
captain than a professor of economics.
Arrived here in 1910 at 20, he got a job
in Hobart as a very youthful secretary
of the Workers’ Educational Association,
turned to journalism as cable-editor of
the Hobart “World,” shifted to
Adelaide in 1926, and later went
back to the University of Tasmania, of
which by that time he had an honors
degree, as lecturer in economics. Pro-
moted to a professorship in 1929, he
quickly made himself felt in the
economic world for his commonsense
views during the depression. He put the
case for Tasmania to the Commonwealth
Accounts Committee in 1930-31 and
again to the Grants Committee in suc-
ceeding years, during which, also, he
was chairman of the Tasmanian Employ-
ment Committee. In 1935 the Bank of
N. S. Wales acquired him —that year he
was a delegate to the League of Nations
Assembly. Going back now as work-
ing head of the University which gave
him his start in Australia, he will be
particularly missed in Canberra, where
his advice was sought by everybody—not
excluding the Prime Minister.
Thirty-five Cobb and Co. drivers sati
down to dinner in Melbourne’s Exhibi-
tion building the other day surrounded by
the streamlined beauties of the motor
show. One of them, Jim Edwards,
handled the ribbons for Cobb’s on the
Ballarat run until 1889 and then ex-
changed them for a train-driver’s cer-
tificate, which he used for 14 years. At
88 apiece. Bill Cooper and Jim Laity, of
Castlemaine, were the oldest Jehus pre-
sent.
Maoriland got another of its Rhodes
Scholars back when Auckland University
College appointed Dr. George Dalton to
its newly-created chair of mechanical
engineering. Now 33, he served on the
technical side of the R.A.F., and two
years ago was appointed principal scien-
tific officer at Harwell atomic-research
station.
In Hong Kong from Singapore, no
doubt to ensure that the Amethyst
treachery is not repeated. Admiral Sir
Patrick Brind, C.-in-C. Far Eastern
Station. Son of a soldier, he was Chief
of Staff to Admiral Sir Jack Tovey in
battleship King George V when that 14-
incher caught up with Bismarck, and
later commanded cruisers Birmingham
and Orion in the Mediterranean. Ad-
miral Brind’s acquaintance with Aus-
tralians began when, with cruiser
Perth and others, Orion led the Italian
battle-fleet into the jaws of Cunning-
ham’s hounds off Matapan; it was ex-
tended when, in the closing stages, he
brought his cruiser here to join up
with the British Pacific Fleet. A long-
faced master tactician, he took his life-
long sea experience to the presidency of
the R.N.’s naval college at Greenwich,
where he was until his present appoint-
ment returned him to familiar waters.
Into the Silence:
In Perth, Norman Lane —“Dux” to the pro-
fession —for years J.C.W. stage-director, whose
helping hand many now-notable theatre per-
sonalities will remember. One of the last
links of the old tradition, he started with Hugh
Mclntosh soon after serving in World War I.
In Melbourne, at 73, James Robert Jewell,
Labor M.L.A. for Brunswick since 1910, when
he succeeded Frank Anstey. Bom in South
Australia, Jewell worked in a brick-kiln before
joining the Labor party. He was party whip
for 25 years, was a member of the Brunswick
Council, and Mayor for the 1908-09 term.
At Toowoon\ba (Q.), William Kenny, brother
of Sister Elizabeth Kenny. In his day a police-
man, soldier and crack rifle-shot.
In Brisbane, David Alexander Gledson,
Queensland’s Attorney-General since 1942 and
M.L.A. for Ipswich for the past 17 years. A
former Secretary for Mines, he had sympathetic
knowledge of miners’ trohbles through personal
association and his seven years’ chairmanship
of their pensions tribunal.
At Christchurch (M.L.), at 71, H. C. D.
van Asch, for some years president of the
Canterbury Law Society. Of Dutch parentage,
and a patron of the Dutch masters, he
presented to the MacDougall Gallery of Christ-
church the large painting that adorns most of
one wall, van der Velden’s “The Dutch
Funeral.”
In a Melbourne repat. hospital. Sergeant
John Williams, who owned to two D.C.Ms.
and two “mentions,” an original Anzac of the
sth Battalion. His eldest son was killed while
fighting with a Commando unit in Borneo.
At 59, in Melbourne, Edmund Haggart,
former Victorian and Tasmanian manager of
the International Harvester Co.
At Box Hill (Vic.), at 78, Henry Baker, who
managed the State’s Wheat Commission, the
compulsory wheat-pool formed in World War I.
When it dissolved, in 1921, he took charge of
the succeeding body, the Vic. Wheatgrowers
Corporation. An accountant, he was a director
of Specialty Press.
In Melbourne, at 80, Major-General George
Johnston, who served in the Boer War. and
the 1914 war and was invalided home from
both. After showing conspicuous courage and
resource as an artillery, commander at Gallipoli,
he returned to Australia and was appointed
administrator of German New Guinea.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
The reception-room, the drawing-room
and the basement cafe were packed
sardine-tight for the Royal Empire
Society’s 24th of May reception. For
most of the Fellows, their- wives, and
often their sons and daughters—for the
“Yohng Companions” is becoming quite
a force in the society—it had been quite
a day. Orations in Martin-place, Empire
lunches and afternoon parties had been
consumed in whole or in part by all. The
Empire Society’s evening party was the
first such celebration since before the war,
so everybody turned up and you could
hardly hear yourself speak for the clash
of decorations. Women wore lovely
frocks, but the crowd was so great it
didn’t matter. President Percy Spender
and Mrs. Spender and a long line of im-
portants received the guests.
Before they sank submerged in a tidal-
wave of humans a greeting smile was re-
ceived from Lieut.-General Berryman
and his wife (dove-grey her color scheme),
the Walter Williams couple, Colonel
Spain and daughter Mrs. Russell in black-
and-white-patterned moire, the F, E.
Manning couple and Air Vice-Marshal
McCauley and Mrs. McCauley. Percy
Spender wore a Peter Pannish look with
his “formals,” and Mrs. Spender’s black
taffetas wore a shoulder-scarf of lobelia-
blue, Dr. Mary Booth was welcomed by
many. It was a friendly evening hung
about with Union Jacks, the Australian
flag and massed with flowers, and tied
together with “There’ll Always Be An
England.”
Gazing at the towering and softly-
powdered or lacquered headdress, the in-
tricate curl, the massed flowers, the coyly
placed plumes worn by the women at the
Powder Ball last week, the Girl in the
Flat Opposite wondered grimly if volun-
teer hairdressers manned the guillotine in
the time of the French Revolution.
Last week’s ball, which benefits the
French Alliance, brought a distinct atmos-
phere of salon and candle-light (not the
blackout sort diffused from the neck of a
broken bottle) to Prince’s. Mrs.
Bertie Kelly, the president of the ball,
wore black silk velvet, the skirt full and
graceful. It was cut off-the-shoulder, the
top of the bodice defined with a narrow
band of ivory satin embroidered in black.
Mrs. Kelly added glitter to her Marie
Antoinette wig with a tiara of diamonds,
and for the first time she wore her French
decoration, the Cross of Lorraine. Mrs.
A. L. Brenac wore her hair powdered in
Du Barry style. Her frock of thick black
silk had at'the side of its very full skirt
a large bustle bow, Mrs. Louis Blanc,
whose husband is president of the Alli-
ance, wore with her pink-and-biack-
striped satins a decor of pink plumes flat
to her powdered hair. Mrs, Stephen
Lancaster’s lovely frock of ivory moire
was crusted with rhinestones on the off-
the-shoulder neckline and the bouffant
skirt.
Rich and glowing fabrics patterned the
dance - floor. Many girls wore with
their pictorial frocks large silver
lockets on a black velvet band around
the throat. Many wore cameos, saucer-
size. The Harry Moxham lady’s lagoon-
blue satin frock had a flowing skirt, and
a ruched bodice. Her wig was of the
time of Louis XVI. Mrs. Pierre Tal-
pain, 'who won the first prize, wore her
hair ribbon-banded, dressed very high
and crescendoing to a burst of ostrich
plumes. Countess Pietrasanta Sauvaigne
was awarded second place. Her hair was
worn in a style affected by the ill-fated
Princess de Lamballe. This fell in two
or three ringlets over the left shoulder,
was massed high with flowers on the right
side of the head. Elizabeth Northcott
was there, her powdered Kair dressed with
curls and red roses.
Mrs. Auffray was all in Pompadour-
period even to her exquisite Brussels-lace
fan with its mother-of-pearl sticks, painted
in rosebuds and primroses. The “Marseil-
laise” was played, the French tricolor and
Australia’s flag were good companions,
and over all was the all-seeing gaze
of Pierre, known by every Prince’s
patron. He was a little sad. Maurice,
his friend and associate over many years,
had died a day or two previously.
England was great before she was rich
. . . and there is no loss of prestige in
keeping one’s word—these two points
were made by K. H. Henderson, British
Trade Commissioner in N.S.W., at the
English-Speaking Union’s lunch on
Empire Day. The reference was, of
course, to present economic conditions
in the Empire and to the Indian situa-
tion.
Mr. Henderson is an easy and well-
informed speaker and, like W. C. .Went-
worth, who made the speech in reply,
is an Oxford man. Each was accom-
panied by his wife. R. C. Addison,
vice-president of the E.-S.U. in Welling-
ton, Maoriland, proposed the toast of
the Empire. Later, talking of the wind-
swept islands from Auckland to the Bluff,
there was a note of reverence in his voice
when he touched on Dunedin in the
Southland, in which town they had
recently held an exhibition, and actually
made money out of it—so much for
Scotch tenacity. Aubrey Halloran, presi-
dent of the E.-S.U., gave the toast of the
King. Banker C. R. McKerihan was
another speaker.
Linley Wilson (Mrs. Keith George)
came to Sydney from the West the other 4
week for a conference with the other two
members of the Overseas Advisory Com-
mittee of the Royal Academy of Danc-
ing, London. In addition to her dancing-
school, which is the largest in Perth, Miss
Wilson runs a caravan theatre. In this
she and» her company have toured many
of the country districts of the West, and
have given performances of ballet. Now
her husband intends to add drama
to the caravan-theatre shows. He is
keenly interested in Australian plays.
Photo of Mrs. George from Norton
Trevaire.
Farewell, Lute Drummond, who died
during the week-end of a protracted ill-
ness. For some years (since her return
from Europe) Lute had a penthouse
studio above Bond-street. It was like an
aviary bursting with music and song.
Even beyond her great ability as a teacher
was Lute’s gift for inspiring her pupils.
She will be missed.
“So this is Sydney! —then give me
Yass” appeared to be the sentiments of
the champion medium-wool Merino ram
at the Jubilee Sheep Show. His brothers
and sisters of the pen (no relation to the
writers we know) also looked a slight
boredom with the great metropolis. The
weather was glorious, and country men
and women and beginning country men
and women —five months old John
Priest among them —had a grand time
among the Merinos, the Southdowns, the
Romney Marshes, the Corriedales,
Border Leicesters and other grandees of
the pasture. Pat Welsh, of Patrician
Stud, Orange, Miss M, I. Bryde, of Rose-
vale, Singleton, and Mrs, L, Cleary, of
Unanderra, were the only three women
who took active part in the show and
the sales. Pat showed Ryelands, Miss
Bryde exhibited Merino fleeces and Mrs.
Cleary “worked” her own sheep-dogs at
the trials.
Cocktails in the members’ stand were
a nice round-off to the opening of this
jubilee Sheep Show, which was done by
Colin Sinclair, president of the R.A.S.
The hosts were the president of the
N.S.W. Breeders’ Association, E. I. Body,
and Mrs. Body.
At the Wool Ball on Saturday night
they sold lucky balls of white wool. If
your ball carried a number you could
chase off and collect a prize. If it was
a blank it carried an infuriatingly civil
“Sorry, try again!” The prizes were
good: Sheepskin rugs, bottles of Scotch,
golf-balls, nylons, a corset. Nice gar-
ments, but a bit fanciful, the last two, to
be worn in the shearing-shed. The ball
was at Romano’s and was. crowded with
country visitors. The prize for the most
attractive woollen evening frock was won
by Mrs. Reggie Gaskell. Her frock of
pale-jade featured a shoulder-scarf effect,
long slim ‘sleeves and a finely-pleated
front panel in the long, full skirt.
President of the ball Mrs. Marcel
Dekyvere’s palely-green woollen frock
was cut off the shoulders, where the
sleeves started in a puff and then went on
to wrist-length slimness. Nobody looked
nicer than Alison Kater in her swirl of
rose-patterned ivory moires. Mrs. Ernest
Watt, who designed the decorations and
the invitations, was among the noted.
Across the road from The Bulletin in
George-street there’s a group of busy
women in the Handcrafts Section of the
C.W.A. They are the force behind the
Handcrafts Exhibition which will be
opened in David Jones’s Art Gallery on
June 6 by the Governor’s daughter,
Elizabeth Northcott. As well as a com-
petitive section open to all C.W.A.
branches, there will be loan exhibits from
the other States. The one from Tasmania
is being sent by Lady Binney, wife of the
Island’s Governor. These examples of
craft-work are mostly from the Women’s
Institute, England,
The work of our own aborigines will
be on view, and the war veterans, to
many of whom the C.W.A. taught weav-
ing, are entering some work. Professor
Elkin is loaning an exhibit of aborigine
art. A child’s nursery in which every-
thing is handmade, and the replica of
the blankets sent by C.W.A. to Princess
Elizabeth for Prince Charles, will interest
all mothers.
Prom Melbourne
A packed house at the Town Hall paid
tribute not only to the fine artistry of
Marjorie Lawrence’s singing but to her
wonderful courage in overcoming the dif-
ficulties which accompanied her illness.
The dramatic soprano wore a magnificent
emerald-green satin gown with rhine-
stones and gold sequins heavily em-
broidered on the belt and shoulders, and
there were graceful shoulder-draperies of
Chartreuse georgette. Prideaux of New
York created the gown, which was worn
over crinoline petticoats of starched
organza braided in gold. A gold tiara
adorned her fair hair. In the audience
were noted Mrs, Frank Tait, whose
bouffant gown of black moire taffeta was
worn under a dyed-ermine coat; Mrs. T.
Allan McKay, a white Arctic-fox cape
over her draped powder-blue crepes ; Mrs.
W. K. Burnside, her deep-wine-toned
velvets paired with brown fox ; Mrs, A. E.
Coates, a black Persian-lamb coat cover-
ing her gown of aqua-blue crepe, which
glittered with sequin trimmings ; Gloria
Ladd, her black faille ballerina frock
worn with a dyed-ermine bolero ; her
grandmother, Mrs, H. Hedley, in smart
black ensemble and matching hat; and
Mrs, Claude Kingston, whose gown and
velvet evening coat were black.
For her second concert Marjorie wore
a gown of shimmering white Duchesse
satin. The full, flowing skirt was trimmed
with a narrow band of sequins in a leaf
design, and the front inset flounce was
edged with sequins in a similar design.
Sequins were clustered on the wide
Bertha collar, and the singer’s sparkling
tiara matched her diamond ornaments.
The lovely voice was heard in lieder by
Brahms, and “Tatiana’s Letter Song”
from Tschaikowsky’s “Eugene Onegin,”
sung in Russian. Music-lovers included
Mrs. Herbert Pacini, who covered her
gown with a grey Indian-lamb coat. Lelie
Potter, her gown a slim-fitting concoc-
tion of cyclamen and silver lame ; Ruth
Tait, in white floral prints and a full-
length brown-lamb coat; Cecil Tait, her
ankle-length gown of black satin; and
Mavis Hotmer, who wore a black taffeta
ballerina frock.
The engagement of Diana, younger
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. H. Silk, of
Windsor, to Hudson, only son of Mr. and
Mrs. H. Ralfs, of East St. Kilda, was
celebrated with a family party at Giro's,
which is owned by David, Diana’s
brother, and last Monday Mrs. Silk enter-
tained 30 of Diana’s friends at a lunoheon-
party. at the Australia. Wedding will
probably take place later in the year.
Diana, who was for some time an air-
hostess with T.A.A., returned recently
with her mother from a trip to America.
The Victoria League celebrated Empire
Day with what was called a “field day,”
the club being open from early morning
until late afternoon. When Lieut.-
Governor Edmund Herring arrived in the
middle of the afternoon the reception-
room was crowded. In a short speech
his Excellency said he insisted on using
the terms “Empire” and “Imperial” ; a
sentiment which found favor with every-
body present. The Lieut.-Governor was
welcomed by Mrs. Guy Bakewell, the
senior vice-president, and Mesdames
Rupert Green and Cairns Officer, vice-
presidents. Mrs. Hollway came in for a
few minutes with Mr. Kennedy, Minister
for Public Works —the Premier was in
hospital suffering from a heavy cold.
Rear-Admiral and Mrs. C. T. M. Pizey
celebrated the day with Lieut.-General
and Mrs. S. F. Rowell and British Trade
Commissioner H. F. Gurney, Mrs. Gur-
ney and their daughter Pauline. The
wife of the U.S. Consul-General, Mrs.
S. J. Fletcher, paid a courtesy call; her
smart black ensemble was worn with a
feather-trimmed hat. Mrs. John Collins,
wife of Rear-Admiral Collins, R.A.N.,
was in a black wool boucle suit; a grey
feather mount trimmed her small black
hat. Kay Hughes, president of the Young
Contingent, wore a black ensemble and
a wide-brimmed black hat covered in
horizon-blue faille. Mrs. Philip Lubey s
grey tailored frock had touches of white
at neckline and sleeves.
Fifty years ago a handful of women
decided to found a hospital for women
and run by women. In the face of much
opposition Queen Victoria Hospital got
off to a modest start, and testimony to
the devotion, determination and skill of
women working together for the com-
mon good was given expression when
the Queen Elizabeth block of the now
enormously-expanded Q.V. Hospital was
officially opened. A message to the
Premier from her Majesty the Queen
was read by Mr. J. A. Kennedy, Minis-
ter for Public Works, when, in the ab-
sence of the Premier through illness, he
performed the opening ceremony. The
Queen said “I am glad to send a mes-
sage of goodwill to all those attending
the opening ceremony of the Queen Vic-
toria Hospital today. I greatly hope that
one day I may be able to visit the hos-
pital and see the building which I am
happy to think will now bear my name.
I pray if may bring comfort to all those
who seek for aid within its walls.” It
was fitting that this new block should
be opened on Empire Day and that the
Brookes lady, president of the Q.V.,
should read a message from Princess
Marie Louise, granddaughter of the
sovereign after whom the hospital was
named. The gold scissors with which
Mr. Kennedy cut the ribbons at the en-
trance to the new block were presented
to Mrs. Hollway.
Later the president and committee en-
tertained at afternoon tea in the board-
room. Silver-fox furs covered the
president’s dove-grey tailored frock. An
ink-blue wool suit was worn by Mrs.
Hollway with a matching hat which had
white-corded ribbon. Mrs. John Cain
pinned orchids in her black coat; her
small black hat was lined with beige
grosgrain. Mrs.. Rupert Downes wore a
grey Persian-lamb-trimmed suit and
scarlet felt hat. Mrs. W. J. Jungwirth
gave a sporty touch to her grey-tailored
coat with a folded black-felt beret.
The rash of dull blacks and browns
which broke out at Moonee Valley
matched the depressing weather, though
sombreness was broken here and there by
a cheery tone such as the light-rust of
Mrs. F. Lee’s wool suit; set far apart,
lime-green stripes broke the rust tone of
the coat while bright junior-navy satin
ribbon trimmed the navy hat. Mrs. M.
Mainprize, of Sydney, wore an olive-green
jacket-suit. Two tall pheasant-feathers
trimmed the beige and brown felt hat
worn by Loris Nettleberg with her grey
suit. The Rutherford lady’s- camel-hair
coat was worn with .fur-lined boots and
a reseda-green hat. Her daughter,
“Plum” Rutherford, wore a junior navy
tailored coat and a small tartan-ribbon-
trimmed matching hat. A heart-shaped
black felt hat was smart adjunct to Mrs.
W. Plowright’s reseda-green jacket suit.
Mrs. Roy Maclellan’s beige coat was
worn with a pale-lemon hat with a scarf
drapery, A visitor from Honolulu, Mar-
gherita Herendeen, added a burgundy
wool coat to her grey tailored frock.
Just before Mrs. J. S. Disney left for
Sydney to greet her husband the Lord
Mayor, returning from Rome, she was
hostess to a number of the councillors
wives and also the wives of officers oi
the Town Hall at afternoon tea in her
reception-room at the Towq Hall. But it
was not just a social affair. Hostess and
guests soon got down to the job of plan-
ning a function to assist the Vera Scantle-
bury Brown Memorial Fund. This will
be a card-afternoon on July 7 in the
Town Hall reception-room. Mrs. O. J.
Nilsen is convenor and Mrs. Fred Hardy
treasurer. Tables, which are to cost £1
each, may. be booked by ringing Mrs.
Hardy at XM1664. On the same after-
noon there will be a stall stocked with
cakes, jams and other good things, and
a model hat is to be raffled. Mrs. Disney
wore a black ensemble with a rose-pink
cloche hat and scarf drapery of grey silk
velvet.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO EDNA PEARL COWARD late l of
Darlinghurst. TAKE NOTICE that
WILLIAM JAMES COWARD has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 1311 of 1948
on the ground of desertion -without just
cause or excuse for three years ana
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce Regis-
try Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the 16th August 1949 and obtain a
copy of the petition Without charge from
HALSE MILLETT WALLMAN & SEE,
Solicitors, 18 Martin Place, Sydney.
(1.5.) J. DOUGHAN, Acting Registrar
in Divorce.
IN TWE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Bwoech.
TO ROBERT JOHN COASTER-CARTON.
—TAKE NOTICE that EMILY AMELIA
NINA COASTER-CARTON has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1673 of 1947
on the ground of your having during
three years and upwards been a habitual
drunkard and habitually been guilty <*
cruelty towards her and she is asking the
Court’s discretion under Section 19 (2)a
If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney hy
the Bth August 1949 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from
GILBERT CHARLTON MURDOCH,
Solicitor, 138 Pitt Street, Sydney, New
South Wales.—(l.s.) J. DOUGHAN, Act-
ing Registrar in Divorce.
iN DIVORCE.
TO ANDREW MALCOLM MACDONALD
formerly of Auckland in New Zealand
latterly of Melbourne in Victoria Australia
Seaman but now of parts unknown.—
TAKE NOTICE that your wife EDNA
MAY MACDONALD has filed in the
Supreme Court of New Zealand a
Petition No. D.620/47 against you for
divorce on the ground of desertion A
copy of the Petition and Notice will be
supplied to you on your applying for
the same at my office Unless you file
an Answer (having first given an address
for service as provided by the Rules of
Court) in the said Court at Auckland on
or before the 12th day of September 1949
the said Petition will be heard and
determined in your absence Unless you
give an address for service the Petitioner
is not required to serve you with any
further documents and you are not entitled
to receive any further notice in connection
with the proceedings If a decree for
dissolution of marriage is made such
decree is a decree nisi in the first place
and until upon further application the
decree is made absolute the marriage is
not dissolved and a decree nisi is not a
defence to a charge of bigamy.
Dated at Auckland this 17 th day of
May 1949. —(1.5.) L. J. WORTHINGTON,
Deputy Registrar in Divorce.
Friends of the Respondent are particu-
larly requested to forward to hirn the
foregoing advertisement. CYRIL ALEi-
ANDER SNEDDEN is the solicitor for the
Petitioner, whose address for service w
at the offices of Messrs. Snedden «
Snedden, 19-20 Palmerston Buildings, 47
Queen Street, Auckland, New Zealand.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Dlvoece.
TO HERBERT ALEXANDER BROWN
of New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE
that ELLEN SARAH JANE BROWN has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4534 ol
1948 on the grounds of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years ana
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the Bth August 1949 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from the Petitioner’s Solicitor, EDWARL
LORENZO EVERETT, Bank of New
South Wales Building, Bondi Junction.—
(1.5.) J. DOUGHAN, Acting Registrar in
Divorce.
Missing Friends.
WEBSTER; Anyone knowing the where-
abouts of the next of kin of HENRY
EDWARD OSBORNE WEBSTER and
ELIZA FINCH MORTIMER, who were
married in England on 19th AM W'
kindly communicate with T. J. PURCELL,
Solicitor, 66 King Street, Sydney.
THE SERVICE MAN
Shanghai Falls.
“Ek Dum”: Shanghai is in
the Communists’ hands. They
captured it almost without re-
sistance. Any fighting was
purely local between the end of
the Bund and the areas devoted
of yore largely to Russians and
Japanese across Soochow Creek,
in the no-man’s-land in which
the British and U.S. Consulates
are located.
This fighting seefned to be de-
signed by the Chinese Nation-
alists to hold back the Com-
munists from the escape-routes
to Woosung, the river-mouth
port, but this was completely
futile since it appeared that
Woosung was pretty well cut
off already from Shanghai by
land.
In the areas taken over there
was something of a lull from the
middle of the week onwards.
This extended to the area north
of Soochow Creek after May 27,
when the Communists had
cleaned up the resistance there.
Fleeing Nationalists were
trapped on the way to Woosung,
and the Communists’ claim that
they captured 300,000 sounds
modest
Shanghai itself has scarcely
noticed the change of control —
so far. For the present the
Communists are proceeding with
Chinese populations on the prin-
ciple of “softlee catc h e e
monkey,” and the occupation
has been nearly painless. The
inhabitants of Chinese cities
with their normal lassitude have
accepted their fate. This attitude
of mind is not only the danger-
spot to China but to the rest of
Asia.
With most of the Chinese a
Government is a Government,
so long as it contrives not to
interfere too much with busi-
ness as usual, though the out-
look is not so easy in the south,
which the northern invaders still
have to take over.
The Chinese Nationalist Gov-
ernment still “functions” from
Canton and claims to have
control over four southern pro-
vinces as “China’s last bulwark
of defence.” Unfortunately for
General Li, who has succeeded
Chiang Kai-shek, and his friends
a lot of the stem defenders have
no heart for fighting, and the
more sensible of them are
hurriedly packing their traps and
making for the security of British
territory in Hong Kong.
There is little chance of hold-
ing the south-western provinces,
which are already infiltrated and
outflanked by Communist sym-
pathisers, and soon all that may
be left of Nationalist China may
be Formosa.
Within a year the whole of
South-east Asia which can be
reached by land will be in
imminent danger, and Australia
will be faced with a challenge
to prove by deeds the reality of
the policy which has been
enunciated by Dr. Evatt and his
friends so airily within the last
year or so —that this country is
part of South-east Asia and its
policies part of Asian policies.
The gentlemen who were so
hasty in pushing themselves into
Asian conferences in search of
limelight are going to be more
and more sorry for themselves,
and anxious for less and less
limelight, as the months go by.
Meanwhile, the immediate
problem for 'the British Com-
monwealth continues to be the
defence of Hong Kong, which
was visited during the week by
Admiral Oscar Badger, com-
mander of the U.S. main naval
forces in the Pacific. Mr. Chifley
continues to make it plain that
he will not interfere there unless
specifically asked. A generous
offer which might hearten the
lonely outpost would be beyond
his capacity of mind and spirit.
The immediate decision of
the Russians, after the taking-
over of Shanghai, to close their
embassy and consulate until
diplomatic relations could be
established with the new Gov-
ernment of China has signifi-
cances which apparently have
not been apparent to the daily
Press.
The move is obviously a first
step towards a change of repre-
sentation for China at U.N.0.,
in the committees and Assembly
of which the Russians obviously
hope soon to have an Eastern
Communist “ally,” with a veto
to play with. They won’t have
much success.
The Blockade Again.
“Ek Dum”: Within 15 days
of the formal opening of the
Berlin blockade the whole busi-
ness has proved what it was
worth.
All the Russians had done was
to buy Mr. Vishinsky a forum
in the shape of the Foreign
Ministers’ Council, in which he
could unload another helping of
vituperation against the Western
Powers and the non-Communist
systems of government, and de-
liver some more propaganda
aimed towards the Soviet con-
“Marvellousl And everything so spick and span ,
too. Admiral.”
trol of Western Germany, or at
least of its policies.
His theme was the unexampled
prosperity of the East and the
dreadful unemployment, want
and misery under the Western
occupation-force zones.
His pictures of Eastern Ger-
many, backed by the most
extraordinary statistics, led Mr.
Bevin to wonder aloud why so
many of its inhabitants were
anxious to escape from the Rus-
sian to the British and the
United States zones. And no
doubt thejje might be room for
cogitation also as to why nor-
mally prosperous Czechoslovakia
seems to be falling into the
trough under Communist rule
and meditating, with the con-
sent of a Moscow which can-
not or will not help, a turn to-
wards the Western Powers for
help.
Regulations imposed on traffic
in Berlin itself, marked the vir-
tual end of the new rapproche-
ment between East and West.
They made traffic completely
impossible. More than 1000
trucks were piled up unloaded
within the Berlin metropolitan
area, and there were 35 trains
blocked between Berlin and
Helmstadt, with the rail-strike
still on.
On May 27 the Western
Allies cancelled all further rail
traffic into Berlin.
The same day the Russians an-
nounced that they were “again”,
about to start summer army
manoeuvres in the Berlin area
and warned aircraft front flying
in danger zones which, no
doubt, will impinge on Allied
air routes which are still operat-
ing.
Russian strikebreaking opera-
tions continued, but the supply
of strikebreakers seems to be
falling off in quality. Of 40
men who arrived to repair a
track- under Russian guard at
Neukoln station, which is in the
United States sector, 30 at once
applied to the Western police
for protective custody,
A feature of the Australian
side of the Berlin crisis is the
reporting of it —or of re-
porting of it—in the Communist
Press. In recent issues of the
“Tribune,” the party’s official
organ, there has been little men-
tion of Berlin and its Rus-
sian strikebreakers. The Aus-
tralian Communist party’s mind
is almost a blank on the sub-
ject—or is it?
On May 28 the British
Foreign Secretary introduced the
Western plan of settlement for
Germany into the Foreign
Ministers’ Council, but it obvi-
ously had little chance of
acceptance by the Russians from
tlie first. M. Vishinsky at once
attacked it as inappropriate for
discussion, as was inevitable.
It was based on the Bonn
Constitution adopted by and
for Western Germany, to be
authorised by the four occupy-
ing Powers, who were to agree
to withdraw military forces
upon its consummation. Certain
defence industries wer% to be
limited or prohibited and reser-
vations made on the delivery of
goods and plants in payment of
reparations in respect of which
rights were to be defined. A
High Commission constituted by
the four occupying Powers was
to be in control during the tran-.
sition period to complete self-
government, its decisions to be
made by majority vote without
any vetoes. But worst of all
from the Russian point of view
the plan provided for freedom
of speech and movement and of
the Press, freedom for all demo-
cratic parties to operate and free
elections, apart from freedom
from arbitrary arrest.
M. Vishinsky, to whom the
plan was handed on May 27,
complained at once that he was
being “presented with a fait
accompli.” He had a people’s
congress of the Eastern zone
ready to lend authority to his
routine refusal of the scheme —
at least as a whole. It met on
May 29 in the Russian sector of
Berlin attended by about 1500
delegates from the East and 300
Communists, “party” and “non-
party,” from the West, ajong
with an intimidatory sprinkling
of Soviet officials.
The leading speaker was Willi
Pieck, familiar to listeners to
Moscow Radio in the happy
days of 1939-40 when Stalin and
Von Ribbentrop
companions, denouncing the
British and French “imperialists”
and joining in a demand that
Britain should immediately sue
for peace with Germany since
there was “nothing more to fight
for.” Tie fact that Dr. Goebbels
allowed Mr. Pieck to exercise
his oratory at that time showed
exactly what his views were and
what the Nazis thought of him.
Next came Dr. Otto Nuschke,
“Christian Democrat,” who was
considerably disturbed by the
events of the railway strike, for
which he placed the blame oh
the United States commander,
Brigadier « General Howley,
whose expulsion of the Russian
armed police from the Western
zone could easily have set the
machinery of the Atlantic Pact
in motion. One of Gdring’s
Luftwaffe commanders, General
Vincenz Muller, advocated that
“a wall of contumely should be
built round the Western
Powers.”
The spirit of the conference
smelt strongly of vodka.
Snowy River.
“Ek Dum”: The Snowy River
Bill was solemnly introduced in
Parliament during the week,
appropriately by a Minister
named Lemmon, who related
the gigantic proportions of the
scheme which is to be carried
out in an Australia where black-
outs, industrial sabotage and
loafing have been the only things
so far produced on a gigantic
scale by the Chifley Govern-
ment’s policy.
It is eventually to be bigger
than Tennessee Valley Author-
ity’s scheme, with which the
going is not entirely happy.
Large cities are to rise round its
fringes fed with power (when
there are not blackouts, presum-
ably) from underground gener-
ators of unprecedented magni-
tude, completely sheltered from
atom - bombs, grasshopper
plagues and all the other
menaces which beset us —to be
exact, “16 underground power-
stations, scattered miles apart in
inaccessible country, which
could be operated by a handful
of men.”
Dnieperstroi will not be in it
when the job is done, and Mr.
Lemmon has given it forth that:
Because of the great amount of
water for irrigation and the cheap-
ness of power, there is no reason why
we should not see in our time inland
cities grow in the Murrumbldgee area
and Murray valleys carrying a million
population.
Mr. Lemmon remarked sourly
that though there would be
many critics, they would be
people of little faith.
If anybody had any faith that
the plan will be carried out to
schedule —the Warragamba Dam
is a fleabite to it, and anybody
who knows the history of the
economics of that project under
“Labor” Governments turns
pale at the thought of what is
coming on the Snowy water-
sheds —it would be shaken by
some of Mr. Lemmon’s own
statements.
The scheme is to be oper-
ated under the defence powers
of the “new Australian Consti-
tution” embodied in the Supply
and Development Act, which
means that the area will become
a sort of closed slave-State out-
side the control of Parliament,
governed by a Canberra dic-
tatorship and not subject to any
inquiry as to its finances, labor
and supply history, and with a
priority for labor over all pri-
vate industry.
In justification of this, Mr.
Lemmon had the barefaced im-
pudence to tell the House:
The Government has found that
the requirements of power for its
munition factories and laboratories
and its defence-research installations,
even in time of peace, are now reach-
ing high figures.
If the Opposition is not com-
pletely dispirited and inert it
will ask what, munition fac-
tories, laboratories, defence-re-
search installations are referred
to.
There is no defence of Aus-
tralia at the present moment.
And if in future it depends on
the Snowy River there will be
none for eight years, at least,
bn the most optimistic prognos-
tication, which is the Govern-
ment’s.
If it depends on the realities
of the labor market, upon which
huge calls will have to be made,
the time taken to complete the
scheme will be near the period
for which an outraged reporter
once demanded from the gallery
that the N. S. Wales Parliament
should be adjourned—“forty
million blanky years.” And if
the estimate of “£170,000,000 to
£200,000,000” which Mr. Lem-
mon says the plan “might” cost
is subject to the kind of price-
rises which have been going on
oyer the past three years and to
the slow-up rate of work which
is current just now, it will cost
nearer to £1,000,000,000.
Hydroelectric development is
important to Australia, but the
design behind this scheme is not
so much development as the
institution of precedents for a
generalised Socialist technoc-
racy, as the Opposition will pre-
sently find out.
The arrival of H.M.A.C.
Sydney in its home city was
marked by the usual slatternly
neglect of the occasion by the
Socialist Administration of that
expanse of buildings which
describes itself as a “city”—a
term which implies cohesion
and public spirit. Anybody who
has seen the rousing receptions
given to British Royal Naval
ships in the places after which
they are named and the generous
entertainment of the men in
them would want to hide his
head in shame fur the reception
given Australia’s first aircraft-
carrier of size when she arrived
at Port Jackson. The unfor-
tunate matelots were allowed to
walk the street uncheered and
unrecognised, but some day
when he finds tune Alderman
O’Dea proposes to give some of
the crew a formal meal. Ob-
viously the new arrivals made
a mistake. They should have
come flying the flag of another
country. A Soviet ship even
would have been assured of a
well-organised reception by the
local Corns,*


II
Off MRS m
\
/
m
m
it
y %
m
IMi
rS
<
AT"”** *
H
H
_o
.
m
V:;,
11
'll
M
g : mm
■
n
' :
mm
m
M
m
mm.
mti
m
hri.
m
m
mm
/
mm*
m
The “MARS’*
10-in Lathe
Precision Ground Lathe Bed.
Overhead Twin Speed Gear box
Drive. 18 Speeds. Removable
Gap. Maximum Swing, 29 inches.
(EARLY DELIVERY). _
The “ATLAS"
8-lti Long-Bed
Lathe
An ideal High-Speed. General-
Purpose Workshop Lathe with
Internal Unit Drive, 2-speed Gear.
Box, Hollow Spindle and Swing-
through Gap. (FOR IMMEDIATE
DELIVERY).
Licensed Manufacturers in Queensland
oi “MEEHANITE” IRONS
The “MARS”
*S*in Lathe
Precision-buill with removable
"Mars" twin speed overhead
unit drive. {EARLY DELIVERY).
The “MARS” No. 4
Universal Milling
Machine
Rapid Power Traverse in alt
directions. Integral, Electrical and
Coolant Systems. Magnetic Fil-
tered Force-feed Lubrication. The
only Universal Milling Machine
commercially made in Australia.
The “MARS”
14-in Lathe
16ft. overall length for Surfacing,
Sliding and Screwcutting.
(EARLY DELIVERY). _
Mars Machine Tools carry a 12-month Guarantee against faulty materials or workmanship
Outstanding features of “Mars''
Machine T ools are :
1. TEST CHART, showing
tolerances against Schle-
singer standards, supplied
with each machine.
2. BALANCE—AII neces-
sary revolving parts are
Dynamically Balanced.
3. FINISH All surfaces
are Machine Ground.
4. MATERIALS "Meeh-
anite" Castings throughout.
5. SMOOTH RUNNING—
All Gear Teeth are gener-
ated.
6. VERSATILITY All
lathes have generous De-
tachable Gap Bridge.
7. "MARS" Lathe Lead
Screws are cut from a certi-
fied and tested Master
Lead Screw.
ASK FOR FULL SPECIFICATIONS AND PRICES
DISTRIBUTING AGENTS; N.S.W.: Thomas Herbert & Co. Ply. Ltd.,
and Gibson Battle & Co. Pty. Ltd., Sydney.’ Vic.: Herbert Osborrte,
Engineer, 567-9 Little Bourke Street (near King Street), Melbourne.
S.A.: M. S. McLeod Ltd.; Adelaide. W.A.: The. Western Machinery
Co. Ltd., l?erth. Tas.:' Charles Davis Ltd., Hobart.
Sales Representative :
C. Evans, c/- Bank of N.S.W., Port Mojesby, Papua,
mar:
MACHINE TOOL
MANFG.CO.PTY.LTD.
BRIDGE ST. VALLEY BRISBANE
MAKING THE WISEST RANGE OF MACHINE TOOLS IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE.


BOOKS FROM ANGUS & ROBERTSON
A STUDY OF HISTORY, by D. C. Somervell,
Abridgement of Volumes I-VI. 35/- (post 6d.).
HUMAN DESTINY, by Lecomte Du Nouy, .
An internationally-known French scientist ( presents a brilliant
new interpretation of evolution, and expresses a startling theory
of man’s place in the universe. 23/6 (post 6d.)
INTERRUPTED MELODY. An autobiography by Marjorie Lawrence
Here is a story of which Australians may well be proud...an
inspiring autobiography and a graceful contribution to
contemporary musical memoirs. Illustrated. 12/6 (post 6d.).
MAHATMA GANDHI. An interpretation by E. Stanley Jones.
8/9 (post 4d.)
SIXTEEN SELF SKETCHES, by Bernard Shaw. 11/9 (post 4d.)
REASONS OF HEALTH. A new novel by Douglas Reed, author
of “Insanity Fair.” 9/9 (post 4d.)
PEARS ENCYCLOPAEDIA. Fifty-eighth edition. 1948.
13/6 (post Bd.)
- ANGUS & ROBERTSON LIMITED
Booksellers & Publishers,
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. MA6511.
or
Your choice I* CINZANO
Vermouth, whether your, taste is for
gweet or dry. CINZANO Vermouth
gives Just that extra exhilarating tang
to the palate.
ẃ
SWAN INKS
BREWED
—not merely mixed
4 brilliant colours and the
famous blue-blackl Swan Inks
are clear and free-flowing, and
do not fade, thicken or
corrode.
MABIE TODD & CO.
(AUST.) Pty. Ltd., SYDNEY
a/i2»
What a pen to have
and to hold ... the
magnificent Swan!
Clean in performance,
handsome in design, it
writes smoothly and
well, with a nib pre-
cisely suited to your
hand. At all Stationers,
jewellers, stores —priced
from 30/- to 89/6.
SUNDRY SHOWS
OVER THE RANGE.
In Alison Rehfisch’s land-
scapes at Sydney'" Macquarie
Galleries there *is not a spark,
not a glimmer of light on the
red earth, the green grass, the
solid houses of stone or pise,
the poplars that look like paint-
brushes, the sombre pines, the
rounded and rolling foothills
and the purple ranges beyond
them. It is a world where the
sun never rises.
Exactly what this lightless
world signifies it is difficult to
say. Perhaps it is under the in-
fluence of the painters of Euro-
pean winter; perhaps the artisf
is obsessed by the rhythms of the
hills and the earth’s clashes and
harmonies of color —she is
using nature to make a kind of
abstract art. But abstract art
has a very limited interest; the
landscapes leave one impressed
with their solidity, pleased with
their contours and heavy colors,
but emotionally blank.
They seem to need a light
switched on in the middle of
the canvas to make them mean
something; or a bomb to ex-
plode in them. And, curiously,
in painting after painting, and
especially in the rich “Haw-
thorn Tree,” there is something
very much like a bomb going
off behind the ranges. It might
be the sun about to rise or set,
but it seems more than that:
lurid, explosive, violent. Now
that she has set down the blank
valley faithfully, one wishes
that the artist would climb up
the ranges and tell us what it
is she has seen in nature or in
her mind on the other side.
Whether she would be cap-
able of handling those atomic
explosions of light is anybody’s
guess. But a landscape that
glowed like her flowerpieces—
which are by far the best of her
work; and the smaller the
better, because of the concen-
tration of light and color —
would certainly be worth see-
ing.
* * * *
Norma Bull, the Victorian
artist who lived through the
various blitzes in London, has
been showing her pictorial re-
cord of war-time Britain at Mel-
bourne Town Hall. Not
satisfied with portraying Lon-
don, Miss Bull followed in
the wake of the destruction to
Bath, Birmingham, Bourne-
mouth, Bristol, Coventry, Exeter
and Poole Harbor, and one of
her most effective sketches is
“The Harbor Train Runs to
Schedule Despite Enemy
Action,” depicting a lone engine
and a string of trucks pushing
their way through the wreckage
of a deserted foreshore. There
is a wealth of drama in the
titles, such as “Warden Observ-
ing Course of Flying Bomb to
Send Swift Aid” and “Missed
Objective,” and, in a factual
sort of way, it is also in the
drawings.
Aleksandr Helmann.
In his Sydney recitals Russian-
born pianist Aleksandr Hel-
mann dropped from the frenzy
which characterised his con-
certo work to playing which,
though still of a high emotional
voltage, was always based on the
sound classical line.
His versatility is amazing.
He turned with equal authority
and complete conviction from
Beethoven (he made of the over-
played C Minor Sonata Op. 27
No, 2 almost a new experience)
to Mozart —and here, for the C
Minor Sonata, a Fantasy and
a Rondo, in his grouping and
phrasing, and above all the
imaginative insight of his inter-
pretation, he reached heights
where only the greatest execu-
tants tread. From Bach and
Chopin and Mendelssohn he
went to Brahms, finding in the
Paganini Variations old musi r
cal wine the rich mellowness of
which was obviously to his lik-
ing ; but with the Schumann
“Carnaval” Helmann really ex-
celled himself.
This work is too often played
with prosy matter-of-factness.
Its subtleties, wit and fanciful
coquettishness, such as in the
Mardi Gras scene; its sliding
from grave to gay, from butter-
fly delicacy to the sturdy march
of the Davidsbundler against
the hosts of the musical Philis-
tines —this complex entity de-
mands an interpreter whose
technique is so good that it can
be submerged in the more im-
mediate task of anticipating the
composer’s thought. Helmann
met the demand brilliantly,
$ $ # *
There was nothing ama-
teurish about this revival of
“The Bartered Bride” by the
National Theatre at Melbourne
Princess except the ferocious
lighting, and that could hardly
be called amateurish because
the professional stage indulges
in the same thing. The theatre
electricians throw on the varie-
gated scene approximately
100,000 c.p. of illumination,
making monotony out of
variety, unlike the music, where
the composer gets a surprising
amount of variety out of a very
simple set of melodic relations.
Otherwise little fault could be
found with the production. As
Marie, the bride who is being
bartered, Betna Pontin gave
further evidence of being the
company’s star performer, both
as a vivacious actress and a
sensitive, engaging singer.
Laurence Lott, as her lover,
manifested his usual stiffness,
but got over it and enriched the
air with his ornate tenor.
Kezal, the marriage broker, was
warmly played and sung by
James Wilson, and Norman
Carbuhn gave Vashek, the vil-
lage half-wit, a convincing
staihmer.
"Fly Away, Peter."
This English domestic period
piece, by A, P. Dearsley, at Mel-
bourne Comedy, tells the story
of the Hapgood household, of
Streatham, London, which is
dominated by Mrs. Hapgood
(Beatrice Smith), who loves her
children so much that she can t
bear to lose them and loses the
lot by the very efforts she makes
to keep them.
Arthur (Kevin Miles) makes
his breakaway by means of a
job. that takes him to Nigeria ;
(June Jago) falls in love
with a Norwegian millionaire’s
son (Ken Fraser) whose first in-
tent is to seduce her, but who is
so captivated by her inherent
goodness that be changes his
purpose to marriage; and Myra
(Pamela Bygrave) takes a fancy
to the pie-faced moron next
door. Having all other avenues
of escape cut off for him, Ted,
the youngest (Trader Faulkner),
attains to matrimony and
freedom by getting a girl into
the usual trouble.
Throughout these vicissitudes
Mr. Hapgood, senr., who has
long since given up hope of hav-
ing any more adventure in his
life than is afforded by the
arrival of the morning paper,
smokes his pipe and makes
whimsical comments on his
wife’s propensity for destruction.
The company plays the piece
as simply as it is written, and
J. H. Roberts, a thoroughly
seasoned actor, paints an excel-
lent portrait of the father.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Information Sought.
When and by London
“Punch" founded? Who was its first
editor and who were the earliest
members of its literary and art staff ?
The circumstances of its birth have
been variously stated. One or two
illustrated comic papers had already
appeared in London, notably Gilbert
Abbott a Beckett’s “Figaro in Lon-
don” (1831) and “Punchinello”
(1832), illustrated by Cruikshank. It
appears that the idea of starting, in
London, a comic paper somewhat on
the lines of Philippon’s Paris “Chari-
vari” first occurred to Ebenezer
Landells, draughtsman and wood-
engraver, who submitted it to the
humorist Henry Mayhew (1812-87).
Mayhew took up the proposal, and
enlisted the support of Mark Lemon
(1809-70) and Joseph Stirling Coyne
(1803-68), the three being the first
joint-editors. The first number was
issued on June 17, 1841. Joseph Last
was the first printer, and Landells the
first engraver. A Beckett and Jerrold
were among the original staff, soon
joined by Thackeray, Hood, Leech
and Tenniel, among others,
* * * *
Some biographical particulars about
R. W. Service, the Canadian novelist
and poet?
He wps horn at Preston, England,
in 1874, and went to Canada at the
age of 20. Becoming a bank-clerk,
he spent eight years in the Yukon,
and travelled widely. During his last
years with the bank he wrote verse
describing life in the North, notably
Songs of a Sourdough (1907) and
Ballads of a Cheechako. In 1910
appeared a novel, The Trail of ’98,
giving a vivid description of men and
conditions in the Klondike. During
the Balkan War of 1912-13 Service
was war correspondent to the
Toronto “Star,” and served this paper
in the same capacity during World
War I, in which he spent two years
as an ambulance driver in the
Canadian Army Medical Corps. He
described his war experiences in
Rhymes of a Red Cross Man. After
the war he devoted himself to literary
work in Paris. His other works
inclij.de Rhymes of a Rolling Stone,
Ballads of a Bohemian, Poisoned
Paradise and The Roughneck.
* * * *
When were the various sections of
the Sydney underground railway
opened for traffic?
The eastern section of the City
railway was completed as far as St.
James station in December, 1926, and
the western section was opened for
traffic between Central and Wynyard
stations in February, 1932. Subur-
ban services along the main western,
southern and northern lines were
connected with the North Sydney line
by the opening of the Sydney Harbor
Bridge in March, 1932.
* * * *
Particulars of trip across the Pacific
by a party of Scandinavian scientists
last year to test a theory that the
Pacific islands were first settled by
peoples from prehistoric America?
Thor Heyerdahl, a Norwegian
ethnologist, followed the route of
these early migrants on a 15-ton raft
built to resemble theirs as closely as
possible. It was made of logs of
balsa-wood and bamboo, lashed
together with ropes, and measured
50ft. long by 20ft. wide. Their equip-
ment was mostly confined to what the
ancient Peruvians would have had on
their voyage—fresh water, fruit, coco-
nuts, fishing tackle. A two-way wire-
less set and up-to-date water-distilling
devices were concessions to modern
requirements. On the raft Heyerdahl
and five other young Scandinavian
scientists went drifting and sailing
half-way across the Pacific. They
left the Peruvian port of Callao on
April 29, 1948, and reached the
Marquesas Islands in about 11 weeks.
Over much of the voyage the raft
made an average of four knots, and
it came safely into port m the third
week of July.
Brief Answers.
R.J.: Boxing is a serious busi-
ness, and quite a number who became
topnotchers were taught how to box
for almost two years before taking
part in their first contest, usually an
amateur one. Join your district Police
Boys’ Club, where competent instruc-
tors and trainers will take you m
hand A.E.: Carol is a word whose
etymology is obscure and of which
the earliest meaning appears to be a
round dance; then a song, originally
the song accompanying the dance,
and especially a song of joy sung at
Christmas-time in celebration of the
Nativity. The first collection of
Christmas carols that we possess ttos
printed by Wynkyn de Warde in 1521.
..'..M.K.W.: Write Mitchell Lib-
rary, Macquarie-street, Sydney....
C.McA.: Full particulars are obtain-
able from Australian Journalists’
Association (N.S.W. District), 166
Phillip-street, Sydney A.L.J.:
Copies of “Bohemia” can be had
from the Secretary, Bread and Cheese
Club, 980 High-street, Armadale
(Vic.)... .5.8. N.: Write C. B.
Berckelman, Hon. Secretary, Book
Collectors’ Society of Australia, Box
905, G.P.0., Sydney M.D.: Flying
Fox and Drifting Sand by Francis
Ratcliffe; price 155., obtainable from
Angus and Robertson, Sydney....
V.P.: Society of Australian Genealo-
gists, 91a Phillip-street, Sydney, will
assist if you forward full particulars.
A.W.: This is a mould, and very
difficult to prevent. You should keep the
back of the frame well sealed with
gummed paper, hang on a dry wall,
and perhaps once in six months place
watercplors outside on a warm, dry
day with backs to the sun —this will
help to dry out any dampness. John
Young, 3 Castlereagh-street, Sydney,
specialises in the removing of mould
spots from watercolors and etchings.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the
MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany, MS, should be
addressed to the Editor,
E.L.: This is no place to send your
baby M.E.W.: Grim, slim and
dim Herb M.: Glad to hear from
you again, but that song has been
sung before... .F;M.N.: Timely but
tame W.M.: Except for the place-
names you don’t add much to what’s
been said before about the swaggies;
and how did you persuade “Coolah”
to rhyme with “Bundella”?
N.H.S.: Inspired and invigorated by
the poem about the “tonic effect” of
autumn, we hurled it to the door.
~. .Bellerive: You’re a joyous bird-
watcher: —
Arthur: In spite of the difficul-
ties of the handwriting—you could
at least have double-spaced it—the
Religious Editor got as far as line
10: and there passed out E. de K.
(South Africa); Might have been
more interested if there’d been some-
thing recognisably South African
about them M.P.T.: Not even on
Empire Day and not even for Mr.
Churchill will you persuade anybody
to sing the word “Churchillianness.
R.D.D.: “Enclosed find verses
which have been brought to my
notice.’’ If they are your composi-
tions, and you brought them to your
own notice, you did no harm m
bringing them to ours, but we return
them to yours 8.A.J.: Stick to
what you’ve seen and forget about
“jewels divine”... .S.W.: A pleasant
little bit of nothing in particular
M.E.W.: Don’t know where you
could publish it, unless the girl hap-
pens to edit a newspaper... .A.S.:
All lightweights, and your handwriting
doesn’t help them.. . .Woolly: Come
in then, for one wild stanza:
When children are packed off to bed,
Because there is no power nor light,
The first time in their lives unfed,
To pass a cold and hungry night.
It is because the noble few
Are doing fat upon the new
Political philosophy.
Carpentaria: You’re too heavy
with that carpet-snake and you
wander too far away from him.
Polish him and seqd him in again.
P.W.: Well, they’re “winter
rambles” J.N.: They received one
of those “sceptical glances that elec-
tric trains manufacture” M.K.:
“Nice of Them to Bother” is not
quite up, but it’s nice of you to
bother.
Birds of the woodland
In the morning light
Gather in clusters
And take to flight.
Birds of the woodland
Prance, circle and race
As they rapidly cleave
Through boundless space.
Merrily outward on
Their wanton flight
They revel in the air
In the morning light.


FORECAST
%
%
*
£
%
H
$
“ /,r »ojs;
a
I OUR future is of vital import-
ance to you, but when you get
right down to hard facts it doesn’t
matter very much what you read
in your horoscope.
If you want to know about your
future happiness, your Common-
wealth Savings Bank pass-book
will tell your fortune for you. If
it tells you that you are making
deposits regularly every week, then
you can face the years ahead with
confidence and peace of mind.
Save something every pay-day
with an account in the
COMMONWEALTH
BANK
£VE*r banking facilitt
(AVAILABLE, AT ALL BRANCHES
cab. u-n
ARTS
Circular Charts for all types I
of Recording Instruments
ter any data of Machinery
or Equipment
METER CHARTS a Specially
ScraMT o*<ux«4 b) mr Q%.n » ■
JHCmWg OTSULUVANfeU*
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
m
BABY
LOVES
to revel in the delight-
ful cream-like lather of
Cuticura Soap. It
healthy and ex-
quisitely soft
and velvety.
One of the famous i
trio-Cuticura Soap,
Ointment' and Tal- j
com Ponder..
530
I
ẅ
iff*
cm
AGA
HEAT STORAGE COOKEB
Ready for instant service, 24 hours a day . . . and you don’t
even need to turn a switch! That’s AGA service for you. This
unique British-made cooker bums a specified, and very small,
quantity of coke in the most simplified and modern manner.
You’ll find an AGA fast and safe; clean to use; and cooler.
Its scientific insulation prevents the heat from escaping into
your kitchen. Streamlined, chromium-plated and enamel-
finished, the AGA bakes and browns to perfection . . . steams,
simmers, boils and fries ... and does a really glorious grill.
GUARANTEED ... FOR TEN YEARS .
The AGA will last a lifetime, and is guaranteed
against faulty materials or workmanship.
~
DEMONSTRATION'
Come and see -the AGA boil a 5-pinl kettle in
5 minutes! Check its economy and its efficiency!
LEVIN AND COMPANY LIMITED
Sole Agents AGA Heat Storage Cooker
45 King Street, Sydney ... 432 Boyrke St.. Melbourne.
Showrooms: Colton, Palmer & Preston Ltd., Currie St., Adelaide;
Cnr. Margaret & Albert Streets. Brisbane. .
Tasmanian Agents: A. G. Webster & Sons Ltd. Hobart.
W-Ar Aftwts; »
.AT^eg.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Some few years before Captain
Cook had managed to convince the
authorities that his newly-discovered
territory of New South Wales offered
a suitable repository for England’s
embarrassing surplus of export-grade
convicts, two leading lights of the
turf whiled away a pleasant evening
concocting conditions for a new race
—a mile gallop for three-year-old
colts and fillies. Lord Derby and
Sir Charles Bunbury flipped a coin
to decide who should give his name
to the race; Lord Derby won the
toss, but Sir Charles was compen-
sated by winning the first running of
the Derby Stakes with his chestnut
Florizel colt, Diomed. There were 36
subscribers, 9 starters, and Sir Charles
collected 1125 guineas.
Eight years later the first “settlers”
pitched camp beside the Tank Stream,
while, back home, Sir Thomas won
the ninth running of the Derby Stakes.
Skipping another century or so, pre-
sent writer, ensconced in an office
directly above the now-vanished Tank
Stream, is able to record that next
Saturday they’ll again be running the
Derby Stakes on historic Epsom
Downs; and five Australians will be
riding in the now world-classic race.
As is the case in America, the
current crop of three-year-olds in
England are adjudged a mediocre lot,
with nothing really outstanding
among them. As could be expected,
therefore, the Derby field promises
to make up in quantity for what it
may lack in quality. There are 39
final acceptors, and, with the accept-
ance fee £lOO, it is unlikely that
many of these have been left in “just
on the off-chance.” The number of
starters should approach, if not beat,
the existing record of 34. At the
same time, the £lOO acceptance fee
will represent for the winning owner
a wager at the ripe odds of 140 to 1;
total prizemoney exceeds £17,000, of
which the winner’s cut will be some
£14,000.
The most popular possible result
next Saturday would be for Royal
Forest to win. Apart from his being
the, likely favorite, Royal Forest is
to be ridden by Gordon Richards,
who, turned 45 recently, and for two
decades England’s leading rider, has
yet to win the classic. Royal Forest
has the form, and certainly the breed-
ing. He is a bay colt by Derby-
winner Bois Roussel out of Tudor
Maid, a sister to Derby-winner Owen
Tudor. Royal Forest has stamina
plus a brilliant finishing burst; he
gave a fine exhibition recently in
winning the 10-furlongs Trial Stakes
at Sandown Park. Royal Forest
started at 15 to 8 on, but was so
far behind the leaders at the turn
that the books were laying evens
against him. In a few seconds, how-
ever, Royal Forest had bridged the
gap of a dozen lengths and, driven
along by Richards in a thoroughly
testing trial over the uphill finish,
won by four lengths.
Of the Australians riding in the
Derby three have mounts which are
well in the market. Having a great
run of luck in the few months he
has been in England, W. Cook is to
ride Barnes Park, who recently ran
third in the Guineas when he was
said to be much in need of the run.
Edgar Britt is to ride Brown Rover,
an American-bred colt owned by
New York Jockey Club chairman W.
Woodward, who last year won the
St. Leger with Black Tarquin. Last
year “Togo” Johnstone won the
Derby on My Love; this time he is
to be on another from the same
French stable —Amour Drake. The
other Australians with Derby mounts
are Tommy Burns and Billy Evans,
riding, respectively, Grani and
•Xerxes—neither much fancied.
♦ * * *
Even with divisions producing a
card of eight races at Canterbury on
Saturday some 50 horses had to be
balloted out to reduce fields to the
permissible maximum.
The Flying was nicely won by
the Le Grand Due gelding Caruso
(N. Sellwood). After colliding with
a hurdle at the start, Riptide made
all the running to lead into the
straight by two lengths, but he was
quickly collared. Caruso hit the
front at the distance and won with
a good deal in hand.
Bcwling along very easily just in
behind the leaders, the Enfield horse
Firearm looked nearly all the way
the likely winner of the May Handi-
cap (Ilf.). McGrowdie moved him
up to take the lead a furlong from
home and he ran on to an untroubled
win, with Crownall and Air Flare in
the minor possies. The Welter
(9f.) saw another very easy winner
in Golden Plumes (J. Thompson).
All other races at Canterbury were
for restricted company, and three-year-
olds once more dominated the Mixed
Stakes events; the winners, Great
Hero (E. Swinton), Warrah King (R.
Selkrig) and Great World (A. Ward).
The Two-year-old Maiden Stakes for
fillies went to French Rose (A. Ward),
while Delta (N. Sellwood) won a
similar event for colts and geldings.
* * * *
For once Melbourne racegoers
seemed to overcome the aversion they
normally show to attending charity
race-meetings, and there was a good
roll-up at Moonee Valley on Satur-
day, the fixture being in aid of metro-
po.itan and country hospitals.
From the card of eight races five
were won by favorites, and had High
Production struck anything less than
atrocious luck in the Charity Handi-
cap (6f.) the number would have
been six. Blocked at every move,
and forced to race wide round the
field, High Production was beaten a
half-length by Qur Title (K. Chakley).
“I'll teach you to take MY snapper while I'm
pulling 'em in!"
Turning for home Our Title held a
lead of three lengths, which takes a
powerful lot of running down in the
short Moonee Valley straight.
Coolport, a Blank gelding who,
until recently, raced as Lost Week-
end, made a sound job of winning
the 13-furlongs Hospital Handicap.
Making a bid from the half-mile,
Henley led into the straight, but was
run down and beaten two lengths,
Chatsol running third. The handi-
capper will have reason to consider-
ably reassess Coolport, who, in win-
ning so easily, carried 51b. overweight
with Purtell in the saddle.
The result of the May Steeple is
unlikely to have any bearing on
Grand National prospects. The
patched-up Sequence (B. R. Smith)
scored another all-the-way win
in downing Jung Bahadur and Shel-
ford. Present intention is that
Sequence will not contest the
National.
With Scotwyn withdrawn, Bidwell
was a ready-made favorite for the
first division of the Matrons’ Handi-
cap, a 6-furlongs dash for three-year-
olds. Bidwell started at odds-on to
win without giving his supporters
much anxiety, and Mile End, another
warm favorite, took the second divi-
sion. The Nursery Maiden Plate
also required divisions, which were
won by Gay Venture (W. A. Smith)
and Zezette (R. McKerrill). The
Ward Highweight went to the aged
Manitoba gelding Nepal (L. Lott).
* * * *
For Randwick (before ' accept-
ances) :
Two-year-old Encourage: Corona-
tion Gift, 1; Wonder Chief, 2; Frey-
berg, 3. Novice: Furdan, 1; Brig o’
Boon, 2; River Gem, 3. George’s
River Handicap: Golden Plumes, 1;
Homeleigh Dick, 2; Laudus, 3.
Three-year-old Encourage: Prohibi-
tion, 1; Great World, 2; Sir Falcon,
3. Flying: Blue Diamond, 1; Caruso,
2; Persian Prince, 3. Homestead
Handicap: Bay Rex, 1; Yamboon,
2; Wearie, 3. Welter: Bold Beau,
1; Parrakoola, 2; Duke of Syke, 3.
Not the winning thereof, but the
way of winning his fifth Queensland
Open last week, put Norman von
Nida in his place as the best golfer
in Australia. With an aggregate of
276, which was 20 strokes under the
course scratch, and his last round
of 65 equalling Cotton’s and
McWilliam’s last-round records, and
only failing to beat them when his
last putt leaped out of the cup, Von
Nida was 5 strokes below the runner-
up, Pickworth. “The Von” was two
strokes down to Pickworth starting
the last round, he calmly announced
he would win, and then played almost
incredible golf. His overseas trips
have steadied him, and he plays more
like a finished golfer than the erratic
Von Nida of a year or so back.
* * * *
Before the rugged Maoris took the
field for their match v. N.S.W. at
Sydney Cricket Ground on Saturday
they gave a vigorous interpretation of
their war-dance; when they took the
field they played Rugby Union in
their same traditional manner. Their
hefty forwards won the game by fol-
lowing the ball everywhere—even
through the set scrums, where the
’Walers’ diminutive half, Burke, took
a terrific battering (the selectors have
evidently decided to spare Burke from
another such, and have provided
Cawsey as the next offering of hoof-
fodder). The Maori forwards, aided
by the international rule, of which
the locals had had no experience,
prevented the ball from reaching the
New South Wales backline, which
impressed as infinitely superior to
their own. Allen and Blomley both
played grand football, but were given
no opportunities with the ball, and
the final bell saw the visitors in front
19-14.
* * * *
There was a touch of the old days—-
the old days when small, fast, clever
men had a place in Victorian foot-
ball —at Footscray on Saturday.
Collingwood’s smaller men ran away
with the game to score a 12.15-8.10
win in heavy going. Best finish was
at North Melbourne, where the locals
snatched a win from Geelong with a
kick after the bell, 8.13-8.7. Carlton,
14.11, had no trouble against St.
Kilda, 8.14, and “Sowth” enjoyed the
unusual experience of a win against
Hawthorn by 12.15 to 6.12. Essendon-
Melbourne was a grand game, kept
open all the time and with plenty of
high marking, the scores overtaking
each other and the result in doubt
until Melbourne’s stamina told and
they won 13.12-11.9. While all this
was going on Richmond “Tigers,” at
home to Fitzroy, forgot their man-
ners, and chewed the visitors up to
the tune of 21.21-9.12.
* * * *
The matching of Queenslander
Elley Bennett and visiting American
Cecil Schoonmaker at Sydney Stadium
provided a great bit of stoush.
Schoonmaker impressed as a very
polished and clever boxer, but after
being slightly shaken by some heavy
punches in the second round Bennett
appeared to realise two things: that
his opponent could not knock him
out, and that he himself was unlikely
to beat Schoonmaker on points.
Bennett thereupon launched a non-
stop attack, seeking a knockout,
which he gained in the sixth round.
Schoonmaker was rated No. 2 in
the world in the bantam division, so
Bennett has established himself as
Australia’s outstanding contender for
a world title. Negotiations are in
progress for a title bout with the
champion, Manuel Ortiz, but it is
doubtful if the 32-years-old Mexi-
can will agree to meet Bennett in
any circumstances. Beaten by Kui
Kong Young in 1938, before Young
visited Australia, Ortiz won his title
from Lou Salica in 1942. Losing
the title to Harold Dade, and then
regaining it in 1947, Ortiz has turned
a consistently deaf ear to Schoon-
maker’s challenges since then, and
isn’t likely to rush the chance of
meeting a man capable of beating
Schoonmaker.
* * * *
A fighting fury from end to end
of the 12 rounds, Frenchman Emile
Fameohon (8.5£) rather outfought
Jimmy Hogg (Bst.) at Leichhardt, but
Hogg’s punches were cleaner, and
referee Art Mawson declared him
winner on points. A draw might
have been in order, but the decision
in Hogg’s favor was mighty well re-
ceived —he lives and trains near the
Leichhardt Stadium.


CORRECT tyre pressures mean more
than easier riding. They mean safety,
better control, less wear on tyres.
So check your tyre pressures regularly
with the accurate Kismet Tyre Gauge. . .
and when they need more air do the job
in half time with a Kismet Foot Pump
or Renrut “Quad” Hand Pump. The
unique two-cylinder Supercharger action
makes every stroke unbelievably easv and
at full volume.
KISMET
Manufactured by
WILLIAM TURNER (Kismet)
LTD., Sheffield, England.
Agent in Australia:
MB. E, G. JONES,
43-49 Hardware St., Melb., C.L,
GJP-O. Bov 74.
eptytmen/
{com Mot
w
Famous British
ENGINES
are
NOW
AVAILABLE
at
REDUCED
PRICES
For immediate delivery contact
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY. LTD.
’PHONE: MA 6311 7-11 MARKET ST., SYDNEY
0& rl j
■N
• Behind every bale of yonr
wool lie years of courageous
planning and e f£, or J*
A.MX.&F. realise this. That s
why they give your hard-
earned wool the same
personal care and supervision
as you would yourself, and
that’s why you can be sure of
the best possible price when
you send your clip to
A.M.L.&F.
86 Years in the Service of the Mon on the Und_
INC. IN ENGLAND, 1863. A“- 4a
AUSTRALIAN, MERCANTILE. LAND & FINANCE COY. LTD.
4 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
AND AT MELBOURNE AND BRISBANE.
Country Branches—N.S.W.: Newcastle, Wagga, Hraty,
Scone, Moree, Garah, Wee Waa, Brewarnna. Qld. £ o ,£„ t s;
Charleville, St. George, Cunnamulla, Dirranbandi. A *
MePhie & Co. Pty., Ltd., Toowoomba, Oakey, Dalby and Pitt
AML.F
mm
THE MAN ON THE LAND
DON'T WORRY, I'M. SENDIG IT TO
GRAZCOS.
Poll Shorthorns Up North.
“C. Punch”: E. E. D. White,
who runs a cattle-station called
Toomba, about 60 miles north
of Charters Towers (N.Q.), be-
lieves he has achieved a good
beast for the north by the intro-
duction of Poll Shorthorns to
his old-established Shorthorn
stud. White was in America 30
years ago and there saw Polls
standing up to tough conditions,
so he bought a couple of bulls
from there for a beginning, and
ever since has maintained the
herd with importations and local
bulls.
His original bulls had great
constitution, which they passed
on to a marked degree. There
was early opposition to the idea
of a hornless Shorthorn, but
that is dying out rapidly, and
many who wouldn’t touch his
bulls now seek them. He holds
that about 70 p.c. of Australian
beef cattle are in the tropics
and sub-tropics, and is convinced
the Poll Shorthorn is most suit-
able for those conditions. They
have a special* advantage over
homed cattle when watering at
troughs ; at times 2000-head can
be seen watering at the troughs,
with none of the usual horning
and damage associated with
horned animals. There is also
an advantage in the space saved
when trucking polled beasts by
rail, which usually means one
more beast per truck, as well as
cutting down horn cuts and
bruises.
White is a member of Queens-
land National Pastoral Coy.,
which runs about 80,000 cattle
and is systematically getting rid
of hornies. Elsey, scene of the
classic We of the Never-Never,
is going in for Poll Shorthorns,
Cattle-feeding.
“He-Ne”: That meat agree-
ment with Britain has set beef-
cattle raisers wondering if they
will have to do all the work.
They are naturally curious to
know what the Departments of
Agriculture are doing to ascer-
tain the most economical way of
producing beef cattle for export.
Cattle are the most inefficient
meat-producers and converters
of feed into meat, and conse-
quently natural pastures are the
cheapest method of feeding
them. In normal times it hardly
pays to feed beef cattle anything
but pastures except for a brief
“topping-off.” An interesting
development is now being prac-
tised widely in the U.S.A., where
cattle are being fattened in the
corn-belt. Investigation of this
fattening method on the N.S.W.
coastal corn-belt could be most
fruitful at present. Wheat-
farms also might be good places
to fatten baby beef in autumn,
winter and spring by cereal graz-
ing, and Government inquiry
into this method might be pro-
ductive of much valuable general
information.
The N.S.W. department has
three herds of beef cattle at
Trangie, Grafton and Wollong-
bar Experiment Farms, and
should have much data concern-
ing the best fattening methods.
It would be of great service if
made available to cattlemen.
The Australian Meat Board is
interested in any effort to im-
prove local beef cattle by breed-
ing, fattening or quicker feeding
methods, and has a fund for the
purpose that should be put to
practical use if Australia is go-
ing to step-up export beef pro-
duction.
Growing Linseed.
“Billjim”: With the aim of
securing the best germination
possible choose well-fallowed,
deep-ploughed land. Best time
for sowing is May-June, in
favorable conditions. Use drill
or combine, provided there is no
excessive leakage from the grain-
box. To sow the recommended
401 b. per acre set the machine
to sow 301 b. of wheat. Sow
more shallowly than wheat, and
apply super, at the rate of 1001 b.
to 1201 b, per acre.
In harvesting see that the
machine is altered according to
specifications of the manufac-
turer. Trouble is sometimes ex-
perienced with the crop wind-
ing around spindles and
sprockets instead of feeding into
the drum correctly. Overcome
this by travelling at a slower
speed or taking in less straw. A
hinged sheet is necessary in place
of rake at rear of riddle to carry
the chaff over instead of allowing
it to fall into the repeat elevator.
Very little wind is needed, and
the operator should keep a con-
stant watch to see that the right
amount is used. Too much will
blow the grain over the back and
too little will allow the sieves to
be blocked. Cover the screen on
the grain-box with bagging. It
is not advisable to try to make a
first-class sample from the
machine, as this would mean
losing grain over the tailboard.
It is better to have the sample
recleaned after it is harvested.
As linseed is spoiled by the
slightest contact with water,
machine and bagged grain
should be well covered at all
times.
Lamb-marking.
“Myrrhee”: Do the job when
the lambs are about two weeks
old, using fresh, temporary
yards in an open paddock for
“Stop doodling and get on with the job!”
each batch; infection is more
likely in dusty or muddy per-
manent yards. Keep, the board
clean and free of soil and drop-
pings while marking, and use
only sterilised instruments
operated by sterilised hands.
Confine operations to between
10 a.m. and. 2 p.m. on a calm,
mild day. Don’t stick rigidly to
a timetable if it calls for mark-
ing late in the day or in cold,
windy or wet weather. Go round
the flock in the evening to make
sure that all ewes are mother-
ing their lambs.
A New Process.
“The Ghoul”: Australian
fellmongers are watching a new
process developed by the
C. industrial - chemistry
division for the recovery of wool
from sheepskin trimmings. The
new technique replaces the un-
pleasant “pieing” method in
which the wool is recovered
from small pieces of skin by
allowing them to rot on the fell-
mongery floor until the wool is
loose enough to be plucked by
hand. Instead, the skin is dis-
solved in an enzyme, produced
from a mould grown on moist
bran. Wool recovered is of
better quality than normally ob-
tained by the traditional method.
The skin digest has possibilities
as a fertiliser or, with bran
waste, as a component of stock
and poultry foods.
Destruction of Aphids.
“Rooster” : They’re the most
serious pest to growing plants
the world over, and altogether
there are about a hundred
varieties harmful to fruit, flowers
and vegetables. Unfortunately,
D. and benzene hexa-
chloride will not kill aphids. Nor
can they be controlled by the
stomach poisons such as lead
arsenate, since they don’t actually
bite the leaf surface, but insert
their tubular mouths into the
channels which convey the
plants’ food materials and suck
them up. Only contact poisons
or vapors will kill them. Best
of these are preparations of
pyrethrum, denis or nicotine.
The first two are applied as
dusts or sprays and the third by
fumigation. These methods are,
however, both laborious and ex-
pensive, consequently arrange-
ments for applying them are not
made until the attack is bad,
and then the damage is done,
with probably not an aphis to
be seen. Plainly, science has, as
yet, found no 'practical way of
dealing with these pests. To a
certain extent they are kept
within bounds by a number of
parasites and predators. They
are very delicate and could
easily be washed aw‘ay by heavy
rain. Yet they remain a serious"
menace.
Eggs of aphids can be de-
stroyed in winter by ordinary
tar-oil. The difficulty is that
many species do not lay their
eggs on the plants of which they
are pests. Orchards can be safe-
guarded in this way by winter
spraying, but the beet aphis is
just as likely to lay its eggs on a
different plant. Until science can
evolve a method whereby the
life-cycle of the aphis can be
effectually interrupted the virus
diseases of plants cannot be con-
trolled economically.
Sugar Varieties.
“Thap”: Sugar experts object
to “Sarina’s” remarks about
Q. 28 in the Mackay district (B.
18/5/’49), particularly the state-
ment that the variety is not a
good ratooner and is susceptible
to damage by wallabies. Q. 28 is
one of the best ratooners in cul-
tivation, and the newer Q. 50 is
on a par with it. But as D. R. L.
Steindl, a pathologist with the
Sugar Experiment Stations, has
shown in recent months, both
varieties are subject to a disease
which stunts the ratoons very
severely. However, the disease
can be kept off a farm by the
selection of setts from well-
grown ratoon crops; it will not
be spread from diseased blocks
if the cane knives are sterilised
in boiling water before going
into new fields.
Wallaby damage in 1946 was
fairly widespread, but Q. 28 was
attacked much less than most
varieties. Since 1946 was a
severe drought year, the starv-
ing animals would have attacked
hoe-handles if they had had any
sugar or moisture in them. The
old adage that “good seed makes
good plants” is only too true for
cane, and the sugar-farmer who
continued to use rubbishy or
miserable setts for plants would
soon be on an enforced walk-
about.
Lesson in Cane Soils.
“Plane Creek”: It is not so
remarkable that our N.Q. cane
soils are not losing their fertility
(B. 4 / 5 / ’49) when one considers
that when cultivation ceases in a
ratoon cane paddock, grasses
and weeds grow amongst the
cane until it is burned and har-
vested. Some stuff dies and rots
into humus before the cane is
cut. The rest remains with a
lot of harvesting refuse after the
crop has been cut —until the
farmer ploughs it in. That makes
a quantity of organic matter.
After that first ploughing the
farmer either plants the area
with Poona pea or leaves it bare.
I believe in sowing Poona pea,
but the man who leaves it bare
always finds his land under a
dense growth of various annual
grasses, weeds and acclimatised
legumes by the end of our
heavy wet season. This material
may not be quite as good for
green-manuring as Poona pea,
but it is very useful just the
same. It must be turned in be-
fore seeding, but generally rots
down fairly well.
There are any number of
canefarms in the central areas of


a
XX
THE HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
The self-contained, self-emptying
Sanitary System.
Est. 1927.
Imitation is Sincerest Flattery
Beware of imitations similar in appear-
ance hut lacking the internal patent
which makes the Hygeia Dissolvenator
so efficient.
Intending purchasers are invited to in-
vestigate the integrity of the Hygeia
Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd., the bona tides of
the Hygeia Dissolvenator, as well as the
value and scope of the Hygeia Guarantee
compared with any other guarantee.
The Hygeia Guarantee includes 7 years
against corrosion.'
Let the record of the 12,000 Dissol-
venators sold during the past 22 years
be your guide—do not be misled by
specious statements.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 20 years.
DISTRIBUTORS:
N.8.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Queensland: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Qld.),
609 Colonial Mutual Building, Queen
St., Brisbane.
Victoria: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Yic.)
Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
•South Australia: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co.,
(S.A.), Edment’s Building, Bundle
St., Adelaide.
Western Australia: R. P. 'Mclnemey &
Co., Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
Tasmania : Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd., Laun-
ceston and Hobart.
Darwin: O. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales
and Services.
BUILD...
with concrete Mocks
Concrete bid da and bricks
ora the Ideal ' building
medium when made on a
'Rapid* machine. These
machines will make almost
.eery type ol brick or block.
HOMES
“Rapid" machines also
.make curved blocks
>for Silos, Water-tanks,
etc. Various types oi
Concrete Mixer*
available.
• Six models ova liable.
• Hand operated, semi-
automatic.
•No ramming—no waiting
for mixture to set
• Capacity 3 blocks per nun.
• Priced to suit the indivi-
dual home-builder.
Write lot illustrated booklet, post free.
Ball & Pyne Pty. Ltd.
, Manufacturers of Concrete Machinery
*3* Worres Kd* MarrickvUle, N£.W. LU44I
SHEDS
ŵ
ẁ
SILOS
The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
grinder discs— recommended for shearing-shed work*
n
'mm
40z., Boz., 160 z., 1 gallon sizes . . . Hardware and general stores.
STOP
YOUR
Worries'
Mark«> Ipeahon
of YOUR RUPTUfit
The new Roussel
enables you to work
with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition
necessary for im-
provement or re-
covery. Recommend-
ed by thousands.
Call' or send stamp for details, self-
measurement form and U Days’ Free
Trial Offer. No obligation.
ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
• THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in ' the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar
G. A. PISHER, B.A. B.S. .
Headmaster.
-INSURANCE —*for your protection -
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in Hong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £9,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BWBI3I (3 lines). C. R. CORNWELL, Manager.
ms
»«9
m
THE BRAND WITH A PEDIGREE
_ /
ANOTHER DEPENDABLE TOP DOG PRODUCT
Queensland where green-manur-
ing with approved legumes has
never been done. The farmers
are content to plough-in the wet-
season growth of hardy grasses
and wild legumes on their farms
to provide organic matter and
humus for the crop to be
planted. Most of them, of
course, also use artificial ferti-
lisers at the proper time.
Salt in W.A.
R. Howie: Sometimes a
small saline patch will remain
barren in spite of all efforts. If
enough animal manure can be
obtained to give a heavy top-
dressing, rye-grass will grow in
the manure without any harmful
effect from, the salt below. In
time the salt will leach away
with the rain, if there is reason-
able drainage.
From a national view, the
biggest problem is claypan
country in dry areas. Having no
escape either by watercourse or
percolation, accumulated rain-
water evaporates to the last drop,
leaving a scale of salt on the
surface. Here in W.A. we sus-
pect that floodwaters ca'rry salt
from the claypans (“lakes”) on
to better country lower down.
Land in the claypans is fairly
cheap; landowners are not
i accustomed to intensive methods,
and do not worry about a few
acres lost to salt. Wherever pos-
sible the pans should be planted
with saltbush and topdressed
with super. Rabbit-control and
light stocking would then
enormously increase vegetative
covtr, and so control both salt
and erosion. As returns would
be slow at first, there is a legi-
timate case for Government
money to be spent on the pro-
ject.
Salt land is simply good land
badly farmed. It is healthy for
stock and men. Where salt is
very extensive, the biggest
problem is to provide fresh
water. Unfortunately, tractors
enable such country to, be
cropped for a few years, but this
policy can end only in disaster.
Top-dressing Pays.
“Betcha”: Had 90 or so acres
of reclaimed swamp-land that
looked hopeless for grazing. A
little coarse tussocky grass
appeared here and there on a
clay surface that showed large
bare patches, sticky in winter,
and baked into innumerable
cracks in summer. Running a
fence round the area, we tried
super. Result, after five or six
years, is a thick mat of natural
grasses, richly sprinkled with
sub.-clover. The paddock now
has double the carrying capacity
of surrounding areas.
Admittedly, regularly top-
dressing often brings too much
clover, which takes charge. A
large area of clover only is a
doubtful asset. Other grasses are
necessary for balance, and to
ensure a quick shoot of feed,
should weather conditions be
unfavorable to clover. The
remedy lies in watching your
land and regulating top-dressing
to suit its requirements. Prob-
ably, after the land has taken up
to a thick carpet, rotation will
be necessary. Generally speak-
ing, on our improved paddocks
we topdress (lewt. to the acre)
for two years, then miss the
third year, with satisfactory re-
sults. However, the land varies
so much that on a few rich
flats a light dusting on alter-
nate seasons is sufficient.
Hints for the Farm.
“Big Billy”: Cracking of cows
hooves caused by wet country or
loose or sandy ground can
largely be prevented by peri-
odical dressings. A preparation
recommended by S.A. Depart-
ment of Agriculture is formed
by mixing one part oil of tar
with one part oil of turps (not
mineral turps) and four parts of
fish oil. This dressing should be
painted on the hooves daily.
Previous dressings should he
washed off before fresh applica-
tions are made.
“Rooster”: Keep all your
waste and sump oils for eoating
the mouldboards of ploughs,
scarifiers’ tines, etc. A thin
smear will ensure that the
polished surfaces won’t rust,
thus saving time in cleaning-off
damp soil which adheres to the
rust when cultivating.
‘MBill C.”: Erosion of garden
beds on sloping ground is pre-
vented by edging them with
stones or small logs. Partly sink-
ing logs in the soil across hill-
sides and keeping the soil loose
and open above these “steps”
steadies run-off water and causes
more water to enter the soil, thus
helping growth of fruit-trees on
or below the slope.
“W. Court”; Make sure
there’s a big enamelled dish or
basin in the car or sulky when
taking corned beef home. Put-
ting the beef in the dish prevents
the brine from creeping down
through the floorboards and
corroding the metal-work.
“Sarina”: In the Mackay
(N.Q.) district, J. Harris makes
and markets a compost under
the name “concentrated humus.”
It is made of chaffed grass and
farm refuse, and goes through a
number of processes before it
comes out at the rate of nearly
200 bags every five weeks.
Harris says that farmers who
have tried it have found their
soils and crops much improved.
“K.T.”: Size of a fowl’s
comb can be influenced by the
temperature. If they grow to
maturity in hot weather the
coihbs will be larger than if the
weather was cool. Some breeders
place birds in a coop which is
well-covered and made hotter to
bring their combs on for exhi-
bition. This is done when the
birds are a little backward in
development. It also can spoil
good combs if overdone.
“M.”: Plant asparagus and
rhubarb in June or July in Vic-
toria. Both do best in soil
heavily enriched with animal
manure dug in deeply where it
will not touch the roots. Jen
inches of stable manure dis-
tributed through the lower soil
won’t be too much; if unpro-
curable manure liberally with
blood-and-bone. Grow them in
the open, as neither produces
well in the shade.
“Nubis”: Use a mouldboard
plough for planting grass roots
like kikuyu. Run a furrow
across the field, then turn and
plough back along the furrow ;
about four inches of finely-
broken soil fall back into the
furrow. Repeat at spaces of
four to eight feet. Plant the
roots in clumps three feet apart
in the furrows. Open the clump
out to spread the roots.
“Myrr”: Dig the soil deeply
and manure it as* for potatoes
when planting artichokes. Plant
medium-sized, smooth tubers in
July or August south of the
Murray, spacing them 18in.
apart and 6in. deep. No special
cultivation is necessary, except
to earth up the plants as they
grow. To harvest lift just be-
fore use; the flavor is better
when they’re fresh. Wash and
scrub under water to which three
teaspoonfuls of vinegar have
been added. Cook gently for at
least 30 minutes in boiling
water with an onion and some
salt. Serve mashed or whole
with white sauce.


B*.
P*
0
i ?
*0
15?
/
s**
M/
i./
u
> > sosh.jane! every time imy
-Hft TO WARM UP TO YOU I GET THE
(Jj M COLO SHOULDER f
Vfv WHAT GIVES JZ.
Sf \ V. ANYWAY p fmjrA
JOE, YOU D FREEZE Uf> TOO,
IF YOU HAP TO TELL A PERSON
ABOUT BAD BREATH! ASK YOUR
DENTIST,
WONT YOU,
r HONEY?
rz
C 7
fid
7D COMBAT BAD BREATH, I RECOMMEND
COLGATE DENTAL CREAM ! ... FOR
LATER
Thanks to Colgate Dental Cream
SQEN7IFIC TESTS PROVE THAT IN
1 7 OUT Of 10 CASK TYI( Aatc'c
' 7 OUT OF 10 CASES, COLGATE'S
mmmv stops bad breath
J THAT originates IN THE MOUTH !
THANKS TO COLGATETHINGS LOOK
BRIGHT! NO EARLY FROST FOR
-V ME IN SIGHT 1
"HERE'S WHY: COLGATE
DENTAL CREAM HAS AN ACTIVE
PENETRATING FOAM THAT GETS
INTO HIDDEN CREVICES BETWEEN
TEETH —HELPS CLEAN OUT
DECAYING FOQD PARTICLES AND
SO REMOVES THE CAUSE OF
MUCH UNPLEASANT BREATH. AND
COLGATE'S POLISHING AGENT
CLEANS ENAMEL THOROUGHLY,
GENTLY, SAFELYI"
IT' 3
COLGATE DENTAL CREAM
Cleans Your Breath While
. It Cleans Your Teeth
GIANT 2/-
LABGE 1/3
REMEMBER!
TWICE A DAY AND
BEFORE EVERY DATS
FJSHtMG _ SHOOTJKG -YACHTING
OR
IK
33D
STORM PROOF
FULLY GUARANTEED
LIGHTS EVERY TIME
Available at all leading
tobacconists and stores |
Australian Agents:
CYC UNO - GO if I NO ~ MO TO «|NO :
Maurice Newstead Pty. Ltd., Sydney.
Leonard F. Newstead Pty. Ltd., Melb.
BRANDALIER-S
SR
PENS
Every point
guaranteed—
do not experiment with imitations
t BRANDAUER & CO. LTD, BIRMINGHAM. ENG.
m
ff
o
■J
HEAVIER SHOULDER
New Shoulder designmakes n ew
Goodyear DeLuxe Tyres huskier
yet more uniformly resilient.
This means more even tread
wear and longer tyre life.
WIDER, FLATTER TREAD
for cleaner starts, safer stops
and longer tread wear.
STRONGER CORD BODY
permits a heavier tread—en-
sures greater safety, longer
wear.
MORE NON-SKID MILEAGE
Millions of miles of -road tests
proved these tyres give even
greater mileage than the
famous Goodyear Tyres they
replace.
Two treads: all-weather at right, rib above
TYRES
Cl - 168
SMOKE-OH
PIMMS NO. I CUP
the no. I Irink
for wise men
“Four of the 29 wives of a British
Gold Coast chieftain gave birth to
10 children last week.”
Is he the daddy of ’em all!
•I* •h
‘Wanted, working manager for
sheep property,' 2\ to 3000 sheep, in
southern district.”
—Adelaide “Advertiser.”
The last manager resigned
after going to administer a
drench to the odd half-sheep
and found it was a rear half.
•I* *2*
Dont give gossips anything to
talk about.”
—Young woman s magazine.
Never compromise with them.
Feathering Their Nests.
“Human society would be happier
if modern trends were less towards
the social organisation of insects and
more towards the community life of
birds.” —“Sunday Sun.”
I beg to differ from the man
Who thinks our social order
can
Be likened in its modern trend
To that of ants or bees who
spend
Their days and nights engaged
in work
Whereas the tendency to shirk
And let production fall behind
Is one to which we are resigned.
And. furthermore, I claim that
we
Have shown a great affinity
To ways of birds, for who
denies
The prevalence of parrot-cries
Among our “Labor” leaders,
who
Seem out to drive the world
cuckoo ?
D. H. E.
Expertly Coached.
‘“Physical culture in Russia must
be so developed that Russian athletes
will soon be able to capture all the
world records,’ says ‘Pravda.’ ”
The great day had arrived
when Serge ' Dogpaddlski was
to make an attempt on the
world’s 100 - metres freestyle
swimming record.
Conducted to the swimming-
pool in armored cars under the
surveillance of squads of secret
police, the invited foreign
sports-writers walked up steps
bristling with machine-guns and
lined by soldiers with fixed
bayonets. At the top they were
met by the smiling Commissar
for Sporting Activities.
“How long before the attempt
is made?” asked one reporter.
“It is over,” replied the Com-
missar, bowing urbanely, “and
the world’s record has been
broken by two seconds. See,
here is the evidence,” he con-
tinued, cutting short a chorus
of protest from the pressmen
and beckoning to five time-
keepers who presented watches
all bearing the stamp “Made in
Germany.” “You can see for
yourselves that all the watches
agree, and who can gainsay that
evidence?”
“Would you mind telling us'
what stroke your swimmer
used?” asked one scribe.
“Not at all,” beamed the
Commissar. “He used the latest
crawl so ably demonstrated by
the Australian Comrade Thorn-
ton on his recent visit to us,”
BERT.
Very Strenuous.
“The Sydney Turf Club, the crea-
tion of which was N.S'.'W. Premier
McKell’s great contribution to the
war effort, is again pressing to have
the Botany Water Reserve set aside
for its use ‘for development as a
racecourse’ —this despite a storm of
protest from all sides. A spokesman
for the S.T.C. said he hoped the area
would ultimately become the home of
‘most other athletic sports.’ ”
Struggling out of his £5OOO
Rolls-Bentley, he paddled across
on flat feet towards the “bird-
cage.” He had only traversed
about 10 yards when, panting
heavily, he was forced to seek
a seat beneath a tree, where he
mopped his streaming forehead
while he regained his breath
from the terrific physical strain
he had just undergone.
Regarded as the brain behind
an industry which “Labor” now
regarded as of infinitely more
importance to the country’s
economic welfare than such
trifling and uninteresting ac-
tivities as raising wool, growing
wheat, making steel or hewing
minerals, Hugh Sless was a
typical example of that virile
athleticism which marks the in-
veterate watcher of mokes
thundering down the straight.
Built on the same supple lines
as the dugong of our northern
“Which hand, dear ?”
waters, Hugh Sless could point
with pardonable pride to the
fact that for three whole weeks
his weight hadn’t once gone
over 19 stone ; this he attributed
to all the exciting finishes which
had marked the last two meet-
ings. Perhaps he was not quite
in the same magnificent condi-
tion as he was a few years be-
fore, when he could, if he had
ever wanted to, run the 100
yards easily in two minutes flat.
He had only been 17 stone
then, though.
Recognising the great tycoon
of the turf as he happened to
pass, a pressman whipped out
his notebook and sought an im-
promptu interview. Pointing to
a near-by punter whose 58in.
waistline overhung the belt
which precariously held his
trousers up, he said:
“Athletic turf types such as
he, Mr. Sless,” he began. “To
what particular phase of train-
ing do you attribute his splen-
did condition?”
“That is self - evident,”
wheezed the tycoon. “You saw
him then as'he had almost to
fight his way out of the bar. By
the time he has gone through
that strenuous training after each
race, as well as diving his hand
into his pocket to peel a note
off his roll for a bet, and reach-
ing over to hand it to the
bookie, he’ll be in such splendid
nick he’ll almost be able to bend
and touch his knees with the
tips of his outstretched fingers.
“And what,” he went on en-
thusiastically, “could possibly
be of greater benefit to a man’s
physique—better far than tennis
or football, swimming or scul-
ling or throwing the hammer —
than reaching up to collect at
the tote window or in the ring,
or picking a winner from his
race-book? I recall the case of
one punter whose biceps, tri-
ceps and forearm muscles be-
came so strengthened by the
exercise that he would keep on
breaking the point of his
pencil! ”
“Would you say that fellow
derived much physical benefit
from watching racing?” asked
the scribe—and he indicated a
weedy, chesty-looking in-
dividual leaning against a wall,
a cigarette drooping from the
corner of his mouth. His eyes
were closed, and he was stab-
bing with a pin at the open race-
book he held,
“Of course I would! ” ex-
claimed Hugh Sless with even
more enthusiasm than before.
“Observe how his whole body is
tensed with healthy excitement.
Even now adrenal is pouring
into his glands. See how his
right wrist holding the pin is
getting splendid exercise as he
plunges it down!
“And consider the other
manifold ways which help to
keep the punter in such perfect
physical shape as you see on all
sides” —here the turf tycoon
waved a pudgy hand around.
“Think of the wonderful jaw
exercise undertaken when they
are shouting for a swab to be
taken immediately after a race.
Punters at these courses have
more highly - developed jaw
muscles than anywhere else on
earth.
“What, I ask, constitutes
better eye-exercise than for the
punter to have his lamps shoot
out like organ-stops at seeing
a horse that ran like a hairy
goat at its last three starts when
it was at short odds land the
bacon at thirty-threes when they
haven’t a bean on it? And
what of the excellent massage
obtainable for those right on the
pickets when they are being
pushed by the mob behind at
a ‘blanket’ finish?”
Just then the numbers went
up for the result of the final,#
and, as thousands of savagely-
torn bettingj-tickets descended
in a cloud over the ring, the
punters began their disconsolate
pilgrimage to the gates.
“And now,” concluded Mr.
Hugh Sless, “they are about to
partake of their most beneficial
exercise, and one of which they
are never deprived—the walk
home. Good afternoon.”
BO.
The Critic.
I poured some home-brew for
a guest,
Then read a thing of mine—
my best.
He scoffed: “Your poem and
your beer
Are like each other —far from
clear.”
BRIAN BUREAU.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Open Season for Landlords
The N. S. Wales Government, having
gained control of the Upper House, has
declared an open season for landlords,
shooting at whom is an old-fashioned
Hibernian custom. The devilment of it is
that the sort of buckshot used, besides
hitting those villains who exploit the
accommodation shortage, liberally be-
spatters thousands of innocents whose
only offence is that they own their own
homes, left them to fight for their country
or for some other good reason and now
want to get them back for their own use.
The sort of thing one comes up against
is illustrated by the provision in the new
amendments to the Landlord and Tenant
Act of 1948 now before the State House,
which requires that notice of anything up
to two years be given to a tenant and
also that reasonably suitable alternative
accommodation be available at the date
of the expiry of the notice to quit and is
still available at the date of court appli-
cation.
Apart from the fact that, in view of
the difficulties associated with court pro-
cedure, most property-owners would
occupy any such accommodation as they
could secure themselves rather than go to
court, the operation of Reg, 30A of the
War Service Moratorium Regulations
would prevent any property-owner having
accommodation available as at date of
expiry of notice to quit and still available
when the case comes before the court.
Protected househunters would most
assuredly whip in an application under
Reg. 30A and would secure the vacancy,
so how is any landlord going to have
alternative accommodation available for
months?
Following that point is the fact that it
is the prerogative of the tenant to say
if the accommodation offered is suitable
—or reasonably suitable —and without
any further direction from the Act a
magistrate has little alternative but to
dismiss an application if the tenant
objects to the view or the location or the
size or the number of steps.
Protection of tenants is one thing.
What about Mr. McGirr giving owners
a little of it?— Jindivick (N.S.W.).
Shipping Containers
Years ago a great deal of general
merchandise—food, drapery, clothing
and the like—came from England
in heavy 400-gallon square iron
tanks, fitted with a circular lid which
could be securely fastened. When the
tank had done its job as a cargo-container
it was given a brass tap and set up on a
stand to provide the family water-supply,
or used in a dray as a water-carrier from
the dam to the house. A tank was a fine
investment, since even after it was
rusted you could put it to all sorts of
use, from an outside fireplace to a bin
for grain.
I was reminded of these old relics of
boyhood by reading in the magazine
“Shipping” a description of the new
“anti-pilferage cabinets” which have been
devised by the Dravo Corporation of
Pittsburg, U.S.A. Constructed of 10-
gauge steel, with a space-capacity of 277
cubic feet, the cabinet has a floor of 16-
gauge steel, and resembles a huge safe
with its double doors and steel latches.
As it is watertight it can be carried on
deck. Thirty of these containers will
hold 60 tons of cigarettes, and when con-
signments arrive at the pier at New York
the cases are unloaded from motor
freight-trucks and the contents loaded
immediately into the cabinets.
Although mainly designed to reduce
pilfering, the containers are said to make
for easier handling, reduced costs, quicker
turn-round of shipping and better storage
arrangements. One New York firm now
uses the cabinets to transport merchan-
dise to Puerto Rico, and claims a saving
in manpower for packing, marking, etc.,
of 36 hours per container ; a 75 per cent,
reduction in breakages; 100 per cent, re-
duction in pilferage losses, and 50 per
cent, savings in marine insurance. Wines,
spirits and tobacco are among the lines
for which they are used.
The cabinets would seem to be ideal
for Australian use, but there would
'probably be a tie-up of shipping straight
away if they were even suggested.—Wan-
dana (Tas.).
More Socialism
It appears that the Socialists are about
to remedy a grave oversight. ' Depart-
ments having been set up to “arrange”
work for the unemployed and to provide
“benefits” for the sick, it has now been
discovered that there is a gap between the
sick and the working. The Director-
General of Social Services, worried be-
cause too many people are receiving
pensions, has produced a “national re-
habilitation plan” to encourage civilians
to get back into the working group. It is
even intended to bring trained men from
overseas to help, and to add rehabilitation
units to existing city and country hos-
pitals.
It will not be at all surprising to see
this plan blossom into another full de-
partment, Can there be a slackening of
work in the existing departments? Other-
wise why should the bureaucrats begin
looking for excuses to introduce more
“plans”?
The Director-General mentions that
5000 Australians were being added to
the invalid-pensioners’ lists each year. He
describes as “staggering” the proportion
of people in Australia on invalid pen-
sions, unemployment and sickness benefits
and on superannuation from private com-
panies. Leaving out the superannuation,
which, usually is run on a sound contri-
butory basis and requires employees to
stick at a job in most cases until they
are 65, the Commonwealth Government
has only itself to blame if it finds a grow-
ing drain on the social-services fund.
Year after year the average taxpayer
sees on his assessment deductions for
social services, which he has to pay
whether he wants the “benefits” or not.
Last year I paid £23 for social services,
and received back £l9 in the form of
child endowment. The year before I
paid £34 and received nothing. Any
number of insurance policies, friendly
societies and co-operative organisations
exist which wage-earners can enter if and
when their circumstances make it a rea-
sonable business proposition.
But the idea of having to pay so much
every year for “benefits” that he might
never need makes the average man
so mad that he goes out of his way to
claim benefits or pensions in order to
recoup something of the “contributions.”
—Jam (Vic.).
The Rehabilitation branch of the De-
partment of Social Services had an excel-
lent scheme in which it paid £l2 a
year, sometimes more, towards an invalid
pensioner’s cost of studying a trade or
occupation.
This was of untold benefit to a patient.
Not only did the psychological effect of
doing something worth while help him,
but many found it the means of gaining
financial independence again in a new
sphere, thus warranting the Government’s
£l2 outlay a thousandfold.
Suddenly this source has dried up for
the T.B. patient, the type of invalid who
has never been able to get the maximum
benefit. No official reason is given. The
most that can be gleaned from depart-
mental officers is that they have to await
“clarification” of the amended Act, a
process that has already taken many
months. — Tis Bad (S.A.).
State Parliaments?
The Commonwealth Government’s
maladministration of the Northern Terri-
tory and New Guinea (B. 18/5/’49) is
not unexpected. It is an axiom in public
administration that when a Government
is far removed from the people that it
governs, it has little interest in them,
knows little about them, and when it
troubles to do anything for them at all
it does so often with complete disregard
for the circumstances. The people them-
selves, being far distant from the legisla-
tors, have little redress because they are
in no position to bring pressure to bear.
To a smaller degree, this is true of
almost every part of the Australian con-
tinent. Dealing with Canberra is more
difficult than dealing with State authori-
ties, because Federal officials are further
away and it is less easy to come to terms
with them. Canberra stands a long way
off, aloof from our individual problems
and administering all with an equal in-
difference and sometimes injustice.
If the Socialists achieve their objective,
the abolition of State Parliaments, it will
be necessary to go to this inefficient
central authority for everything. It will
then be quite possible for the present
States to become as badly governed as
the N.T. and N.G. are today. If we wish
to continue existence as a free people we
must stand guard over the system
that provides State Parliaments to stand
between ourselves and Canberra. —
J. B. R. (N.S.W.).
Oil Co. Representatives
“Carlyle” (B. 11/5/ ’49) speaks about
oil-company representatives like the
farmer I think he must be.
Oil companies wouldn’t dare call us
debt-collectors —that’s our chief |ask.
Perhaps “C,” has forgotten how before
the war, one of us gave him credit that the
bank wouldn’t, for purchasing fuel to
operate his farm. Lots of farmers in my
district have temporarily forgotten our
main function—the on-the-spot valuation
of potential buyers on credit. Through
our personal adjudgment of him, often of
his courage, and not his standing at the
bank, many a farmer received our com-
pany’s credit.
I represent an English oil company, and
if I didn’t spend more than 15s. a week
on “hospitality,” “C.,” like some here,
would be just the one to dump my com-
pany for one of my friendly enemies.—
Arnold (Q.).
Roofs
Following Canberra’s decision to relax
regulations on the height of ceilings—one
of the most important cost factors in
small-house construction —the Victorian
Minister for Housing has stated that a
reasonable minimum would be Bft. 6in.
instead of the statutory 9ft. This would
make the present boxlike houses more
like hotboxes than ever.
Low ceilings should be combined with
high-pitched roofs which permit of attics.
If all the low-pitched bungalow houses in
Melbourne'could be converted into high-
pitched ones, the accommodation would
be almost doubled. An architect told me
that the high-pitched roof I was having
put on a house was quite incongruous in
the Australian landscape and unsuitable
for the climate, as it had been evolved in
cold countries to roll the snow off.
Having crossed Siberia, where most of
the houses are as low-pitched as an Aus-
tralian suburban villa, I couldn’t very
well believe him. As a matter of fact, the
high-pitched roof was invented, for
purely economical reasons, by English
peasant-farmers who built their own
houses. Wishing to have more space
without more cost in materials and labor,
they kept their walls low and lengthened
their rafters, thus providing themselves
with space for one, two and sometimes
three attics.
The attic house is much more suitable
for the Australian climate than the
bungalow type. Like a tent, the upper
portion cools down rapidly at sundown
and can be used for bedrooms. The
ground-floor living-rooms are kept cool
in daytime by circulation of air which
the attic provides much more efficiently
than any of the elaborate and expensive
insulating systems favored by modem
home-designers. — Bumpkin (Vic.).
“Sixers” and Psychologists
“Ognop” (B. 27/4/’49) lists the rules
of an English school committee aiming to
decrease corporal punishment, and de-
scribes them as “all bunkum.” Thus, in
two words, experiments in educational
psychology over the last 50 years or so
are contemptuously thrown out. Why?
Because “Ognop” himself “got more than
an average share of ‘sixers’ and ‘touch-
toe’ exercises,” and can now look back
on his schooldays as “the happiest period
of a pretty long and full life.”
That’s only the old stunt of trying to
prove a general law from a particular
case. My own experience was to be a
“front-row boy” in a crowded Sydney
primary school where, if whackings were
convertible into knowledge, I must have
finished as an Einstein. Instead I was
retarded in one grade.
I went to the country v then, to a “one-
teacher” school. I tried 'some of the old
stuff on the new teacher, but to my
astonishment my antics were scorned by
fellow-pupils and rebuked by my teacher
only by expressive silences and indiffer-
ence.
If “Ognop” thinks particular cases are
any good, he can chew over the fact that
I did particularly well in later examina-
tions, and, more important, learned a
good bit about such less examinable sub-
jects as co-operation, honesty, indepen-
dence, and moderation. It took a few
months to root out the old hatred of
books, but the next 20-odd years have
not been able to root out the love for
them that was first encouraged by that
wise teacher. As a matter of interest, I
don’t remember whether he possessed a
cane, but I do remember that he played
both football and marbles with us many
a time.
Let us, in decency sake, make every
effort to get further and further away
from the old cruelties of schools. The
brutality of some teachers has scarred
the minds of too many already.—Namby-
pamby (Q.).
While “Carlyle” (B. 4/5/’49) and
others argue that municipal-council
finances are in a precarious position, I
pay £8 annually to the Camberwell (Vic.)
City Council. All I get is my rubbish
cleared twice weekly. The Metropolitan
Board of Works receives a similar amount,
but it at least provides me with a first-
class sewerage system and the best water
in the world. — Waddlin’ Willie (Vic.).
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 19
, Across.
I—Can1 —Can sad mongrels provide a
dramatic suojeci ror Snendan?
(7, 7)
9 Rene and a Napoleonic marshal
take the kindergarten bowling to
the misers. (5-8)
10— Why the ’ell is there verse inside
such falsetto singing? (5)
12— Looks over the piano among six-
footers. (8)
13 — Telephone from Wagner. (4)
15 — Writer in the enclosure. (3)
16— Towards a French preposition.
(4)
18—Nothing upset nothing on the
kitchen floor perhaps. (4)
20 — Galleryman. (4)
21 — Male verb of interest to any
Hamlet goddess. (4)
22 — Possesses. (3)
25 Rent may be shed. (4)
26 Let short for a birdie. (8)
27 Send one who clocks backwards.
(5)
30 —Shut up like a decoration for the
locks to ring America with five
seeds. (13) .
32—Claim made by the very angry
kindergarteners? (5. 3. 6)
(CRYPTIC TYPE.)
C Solution in next issue.)
Down.
1— Sarah River in Caledonia is to
go out with dash and swagger.
(5, 5)
2 Shot at the first-class university
subject. (5)
3 The coppers fishing and hanging
down. (8)
4 poultry statistics used by some
artists to paint the human body.
(3, 6)
5 There can be no row without it.
(3)
6 Midget in the U.S. Navy vessel.
(6)
7 These should be kept in a helpful
funny that poetically never upset
essays. (9)
8— Serpent. (3)
11 —Before. (3)
14— Derision from the horse-drawn
vehicles killed many souveniring
soldiers. (5, 5)
15 — The ditch end of the face to
assa jl
17 —Book by’Edgar Wallace super-
vised by Robespierre. (3, 6)
19 —The cleaning woman keeps com-
pany with Albert and they all
helped to drive cars a few years
ago. (8)
23 —Exist. (3)
24 —Drug the firm murderer in the
Bible. (6)
28 — St. Cecilia’s responsibility upset
the total, I see. (5)
29 — Apposite little flat. „(3)
31—Contemptuous comment from
European river duck. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 18.


Chifley Government’s
fake excuse
for High Prices
exposed by actual facts
u
The biggest single factor in bringing about price increases
was the Chifley Government’s abrupt and unwarrantable
withdrawal of price subsidies and its refusal to grant funds
to the States to replace subsidies.
The Socialist Government has, in fact, sabotaged State
control of prices —and yet blames the “deficiencies” of State
control for its own failures .
The Federal Labor Government is entirely to blame for the
present extortionate cost of living and for the fact that
prices have steadily increased since the Chifley Government
“controlled” them. No faked excuse will convince Australia
to the contrary.
The Liberal Party, as soon as returned, will take prompt steps
along essentially practical lines to remedy the present disastrous
position, and will, by the encouragement of incentives to increase
production, stabilise and progressively reduce prices.
THE GOVERNMENT FOR THE PEOPLE ... Fair to all
GIVE FINANCIAL SUPPORT TO
THE LIBERAL PARTY send
your contribution to State
Headquarters.
Liberal
Authorised by D. Cleland, 30 Ash St., Sydmey-
