

ROYAL PURR
A PRODUCT OF THE
e
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
The Bulletin
‘‘Die Bulletin,” Vol. 70—No. 3645
Wednesday, December 21, 1949
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
TN the secluded Meon Valley of Hamp-
shire, two miles from Fareham, is the
ancient and picturesque village of Titch-
field, which possessed a market in the
days of the Domesday Survey (1086).
Titchfield was crown property, and was
given by Henry 111 to a Bishop of Win-
chester, who founded the Abbey in 1222 ;
it was completed and consecrated in 1238.
It was in Titchfield Abbey that Henry VI
(1422-1461) married Margaret of Anjou,
and he conferred many privileges upon
the Abbey.
At the Dissolution, Titchfield Abbey
fell to Thomas Wriothesley, Earl of
Southampton, who later became Chan-
cellor and one of the most influential
men in the kingdom. He made Titchfield
his home and converted the Abbey into
an imposing mansion which later became
known as “Palace House.” The second
Earl of Southampton entertained Edward
VI and Queen Elizabeth at Titchfield.
Shakespeare may have passed through the
doors of the Gatehouse, illustrated here,
when the guest of the third Earl of
Southampton, the patron to whom he
dedicated “Venus and Adonis,” his first
published work. Southampton married
the gay maid -of - honour, Elizabeth
Vernon, a cousin of Essex, and was later-
imprisoned for taking part in the rising
organised by Essex against the King. He
was released, however, and was restored
to favour by James I.
Charles I, who frequently hunted in
the near-by New Forest, stayed at Titch-
field with his fifteen-year-old bride,
Henrietta Maria. During one of these
visits a shouting match developed between
the Court Chaplain and the local Angli-
can divine, as each was determined to say
grace at dinner.
It was to Titchfield that Charles I fled
from Hampton Court in 1647, and he
was captured here by Colonel Hammond
and taken to Carisbrooke Castle, on the
Isle of Wight.
HERE, AT TITCHFIELD ABBEY, HENRY VI AND MARGARET OF ANJOU WERE WED.


e
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
8.8. 249 AQE
■
The Red Page
TRIALS OF KAFKA.
In the second and concluding volume
of The Diaries of Franz Kafka, edited
by Max Brod (Seeker and Warburg), there
is a reference to a certain Felix. Kafka
dreamed that his father, pondering some
scheme of social reform, was “sitting on
the floon his back against the sofa, as
he sits when he plays with Felix.” Max
Brod explains in a note who Felix was:
A nephew of Kafka’s. He was mur-
dered by the Nazis.
Again, there is a reference to some-
body named “M.”—“About a week ago
gave M. all the diaries. A little freer?
No. Am I still able to keep a diary?
.... Only with the greatest of effort could
I note down something on Hardt It
is as if I had already written everything
there was to write about him long ago or,
what is the same thing, as if I were no
longer alive.” Max Brod explains who
“M.” was:
Mrs. Milena Jesenska, whose acquaint-
ance Kafka made at the beginning of 1920.
She was a clever, able woman of liberal
views, an excellent writer, A very intimate
friendship developed between her and
Kafka, one full of hope and happiness at
first but which later turned into' hopeless-
ness. The friendship lasted a little more
than two years. In 1939 Mrs. Jesenska
was thrown into prison by the Nazis in
Prague and murdered.
Kafka, of course, quit the European
scene too soon to have personally en-
joyed the privilege of being murdered
by the Nazis. He died of tuberculosis
in the Kierling Sanatorium, near Vienna,
in 1924. But it is impossible to think
about his cruel and mysterious novel
The Trial at the present time without
relating it to the history of Europe after
it was written. Another recent Seeker
and Warburg book, Herbert Tauber’s
Franz Kafka: An Interpretation of His
Works, gives a description of ail Kafka’s
novels and short stories, and the plot of
The Trial, as Tauber outlines it, seems
strangely like a prophecy of Hitler’s
decimation of the Jews;
The Trial is a crisis in the life of the
Chief Clerk K. Joseph K. is charged by a
mysterious court, without being aware of
the nature of the charge. From some level
of the Law that is unknown to him, and
about which, nevertheless, an unrest within
him is cognisant, comes the demand to
justify himself K. is visited in his rooms
on the morning of his thirtieth birthday by
two warders and—still in bed —is. told he
is under arrest. He doesn’t understand
the whole proceeding, because the warders
are unable to identify themselves as public
officials. An inspector who has put him-
self up in the next room, which is generally
occupied by Fraulein Burstner, explains to
him that he is arrested, and with K.’s
attempt to look on the whole thing as a
harmless joke he does not agree
The court, which has its offices in the
attics of a slum tenement house, and where
the officers are venal and corrupt, cannot
be subjected to a rule like Life, which the
successful man thinks he has mastered. It
evades ordinary treatment. It has nothing
to do with public justice. No particular
crime, no definite point of failure, is men-
tioned.
Reading this summary arid remember-
ing that Kafka, born in Prague in 1883,
was a Jew, and recalling tire morbid and
terrifying fascination of The Trial as it
progresses—the floggings, the sadistic
tortures, the savage ending when the two
pale, plump executioners pass a butcher’s
knife to and fro across K.’s outstretched
body before stabbing him to death —the
prophetic nature of the novel is surely
strikingly apparent. Above all, it is the
inexplicability of the doom which falls
upon K., the sense of an absolute and
final injustice, utterly beyond reason,
which seems like a prefiguring of the con-
centration-camps and the gas-chambers.
Inexplicable injustice, though indeed in
a milder form, is the theme of another
of Kafka’s novels, The Castle, in which
the protagonist—“K.” again—comes to a
village which is dominated by a hier-
archy of Castle officials and struggles
endlessly to establish a claim to the posi-
tion of Land Surveyor and to be per-
mitted to share the life of the villagers
and the more-or-less benevolent tyranny
of the Castle. The keynote of this novel
is the sense of homelessness, and if the
Castle is not a prophetic symbol of the
Nazis or.of some more humane Govern-
ment; to Herbert Tauber it represents
Providence—at least K.’s situation, his
feeling of not belonging, is very much
like the general situation of the Jews in
times of persecution.
In the story of The Burrow, written in
the last year of Kafka’s life, the picture
°£ pure terror. The protagonist is not
K. this time but some timid and solitary
animal which, in the dark maze of its
burrow, keeps hearing a sound that can
only be made by some mysterious enemy.
The unfinished story breaks off with a
picture of the creature in desperate
terror, all its defence measures having
failed. Tauber says the completed version
would have shown the struggle and defeat
of the animal by its persecutor.
If Kafka’s novels can thus be inter-
preted, in their themes of inexplicable
tyranny and terror, as a prophecy of the
pogroms of the Nazis, a kind of literary
Belsen which indeed in their contents
they too much resemble—the story of
his profoundly miserable life, as it un-
folds in the Diaries, almost makes him
seem like a victim to the Nazis in
advance. Max Brod says that Kafka was
not always so unhappy in life as he
appears on paper ; there was even “a gay
ingenuousness which one would scarcely
credit to the author of the Diaries.”
But, except, perhaps, when he is taking
a cure in a nudist-camp at Weimar —a
setting where, says Tauber, Kafka made
himself conspicuous as “the man with
the bathing-trunks”—and is recording his
astonishment at seeing, perfectly naked,
‘an old man suddenly charging across the
meadow like a wild animal, taking a
rain-bath,” there is very little “gay in-
genuousness” in the Diaries.
Nothing but despair of happiness with
women; desperation at having to work
as a clerk in an insurance company;
hatred and fear of his father ; sadistic
nightmares about knives ; a longing for
death; disgust, disquiet and distrust at
the whole spectacle and burden of exist-
ence ; and moments of wild vision
which, even if this strange entry was one
of his jottings to be used later in a story,
come from some alarming region beyond
the border of sanity:
The door opened a crack. A revolver
appeared and an outstretched arm.
But whatever truth there may be in
this “prophetic” view of Kafka and his
work, it is only part of the truth; one
layer of meaning in an iceberg which
stretches far down into the subconscious.
If one can find typically Jewish problems
in the novels, the themes of tyranny and
homelessness are also of universal
application today, If The Trial prophe-
sied the coming of the Nazis it also
foreshadowed that general breakdown of
European civilisation about which most
novelists are talking today—Thomas
Mann’s Dr. Faustus and Frederic Pro-
kosdh’s Storm and Echo were recent
examples.
An attempt to fit Kafka into an ex-
clusively Jewish pattern would fail be-
cause, as the Diaries make abundantly
clear, his masters were Dostoevsky and
Strindberg; and though his tortured and
gloomy writing, like the tortured and
gloomy art of the surrealists, reflects an
aspect of the Twentieth Century, our age
cannot claim a monopoly in gloom.
There was not a great deal of “gay in-
genuousness” in Webster among the
Elizabethans, nor has any modern hero
been more puzzled and worse bedevilled
than Hamlet. Kafka’s work may in part
represent his race; in part his century;
in part his masters; but in the last
analysis it represents Kafka himself: the
art of a sick man and a sick soul.
Herbert Tauber, without pausing to
discuss the political allegories which the
novels suggest, goes straight to the uni-
versal content, seeing The Castle as a
parable of man’s search for divine justice
and The Trial as a parable of man’s dis-
satisfaction with a merely material exist-
ence—Joseph K., though he cannot quite
understand what he is charged with, feels
a sense of guilt because he has lived as
a clerk and not as ah immortal spirit.
Exploring a layer deeper down the ice-
berg, Tauber also discusses the works as
essays on original sin ; and, travelling as
far as he can into the sad labyrinth of
Kafka’s perspnality, which is as near as
one can go to the source of his writing,
analyses, without unduly stressing the
Freudian viewpoint, his obvious inade-
quacies as a human being: his lifelong
subjection to his father, his failure with
women, and the disgust of sex that gave
so much of his work a cold and bestial
crudity.
It is the natural fate of incomprehen-
sible writers to be discussed in unread-
able text-books, and it cannot be said
that Franz Kafka: An Interpretation of
His Works, ponderous with Teutonic
metaphysics, is exactly a jaunty piece of
writing. The Trial, after all, differs from
Finnegans Wake, The Cantos and The
Waste Lhnd in that it is not written in a
private language, or with recondite allu
sions, and may be read straightforwardly
as a fantasy; and whether its image o:
tyranny and guilt is really any clearer
after all this monumental hair-splitting
is open to question. Yet some sort o]
painstaking analysis was bound to be
written; and Herbert Tauber has un-
doubtedly done the job patiently, intelli-
gently and thoroughly.
The volume of The Diaries, which Max
Brod says served Kafka as “a spring-
board for creation,” contributes much
less than one would expect to a precise
knowledge of the author’s life and work.
Partly this is caused by the sparseness
of Max Brod’s notes, which seem to have
been compiled with a view to preserving
Kafka’s elusiveness, but chiefly it is
Kafka’s own vague and fragmentary
method that makes the book almost
abstract, almost non-existent.
It is only on the rarest occasions that
there is anything as definite as a picture
of elderly nudists leaping naked over
haystacks, or an appreciation of the
bended left knee of the Venus de Milo,
or a criticism of the “heartlessness”
behind Dickens’s “sentimentally over-
flowing style.” With its complaint that
going daily to the office is like being a
schoolboy and having to write 1000 times
“I must do this or that,” its dreams of
swords and knives, its yearnings for
suicide, its records of headache and sick-
ness and vague amatory quarrels, its
occasional brilliant and lacerating
aphorisms—“We are permitted to crack
that whip, the will, over us with our own
hand”—the book is, as Kafka himself
says, the story of the “dream-like inner
life” of a man who saw himself as “a
rat’s-nest of miserable dissimulations.”
As such, in spite of a certain painful
tenacity, it is too scrappy really to be
readable. But Kafka was an artist as
well as a misfit, and, in a fragmentary
way, there are * patches of fine artistry
to give a tolerable body to the book.
These are the beginnings of short stories
and outlines of stories which appear at
frequent intervals and all of which, in-
complete as they are, have that queer,
imaginative compulsion which was
Kafka’s distinctive quality.
"The Army's" Founder ,
In his little book Booth the Beloved
(Cumberlege), J. Evan Smith, Commis-
sioner of the Salvation Army, Territorial
Headquarters, Melbourne, has produced
about the most delightful biographical
monograph of the year.
From General William Booth’s early
seventies until his death in 1912 at the
age of 83, Commissioner Smith was his
private secretary. He took down the
letters of the Salvation Army’s founder
during the day, and read him to sleep at
night. When the old man went forth to
preach, young Captain Smith attended,
his pockets
stuffed with a variety of articles- —among
them a spare set of dentures, in case the
spring of those the General was using
were to break, a spare false eye (this after
the second eye operation), several biscuits,
and sometimes a raw egg to sustain him
during the lengthy prayer-meeting. You
can imagine with what trepidation I har-
bored that, egg!
The General’s sight was failing ; his
notes had to be specially prepared on a
machine with large type—and here Com-
missioner Smith revives for us the horrors
of the early days of stenography:
. Never shall I forget his exacting prepara-
tion for a series of Corps Officers’ Coun-
cils in Great Britain... .The General would
first dictate would draft the notes
on the typewriter. Following correction
and expansion, a new draft would be pre-
pared, and then another Square white
paper with red-lined borders was used, and
the main headings were typed in capital
letters and double-spaced, the subordinate
paragraphs being indented in the lower
case. Thus not much could be put on a
page—but there were more than three
hundred pages. A copying ribbon had to
be used, so that the lettering would be
brought out more clearly when the pages
had been press-copied with a wet sheet, a
method long since out of date. Then each
page had to be dried, and the main para-
graphs underlined in black ink and the
subordinate paragraphs in red. After this
process the General could, although with
difficulty, just manage to read his notes.
When the General travelled about the
country he was billeted in true Army
style, but with much more than usual
Army warmth, upon influential citizens
all along his line of march. Hostesses
would receive, with acceptance of their
invitations, a letter:
The General does not take fish, flesh
or fowl in any shape or form. The follow-
ing will be all he desires: —
Tea, about 4.30: Strong Ceyldn tea,
boiling hot milk, white bread, dry toast
and butter, with the addition of a few
fried potatoes (or mushrooms if convenient).
In making the toast, the bread should
be cut tolerably thin, and gradually toasted
until it is both dry and crisp, and yet not
too hard, and should be then immediately
placed in the rack.
On one campaign, which necessitated
three different billets every 24 hours, one
for lunch, one for tea, one for bed-and-
breakfast, the old man was too weary to
talk to the two charming daughters of a
well-appointed home who had been left
to entertain him to lunch. Subject afte
subject having been proposed to no pur
pose, one pf the ladies asked him if every
thing was to his liking:
Feeling it incumbent upon him to reply,
he looked around the table and his eye fell
upon the slices of lemon beside him which
he was at that time taking with his tea, in
Russian style. Finding nothing else to
remark upon, he finally answered, “Well,
the peel of this lemon is rather thick . . .”
At the home of one wealthy bene
factress, the General always dined
privacy with his hostess, so that he mighi
more freely discuss his plans. This lef
young Captain Smith to the meagre table
of a skimping housekeeper. One evening
the General walked into the Captain’
bedroom, said he was afraid his secretary
hadn’t been getting enough to eat, anc
pulled from the pocket of his frock-coa
a handkerchief wrapped around two or
three pieces of fried bread—at that time
the General’s diet was fried bread with
Benger’s Food.
There is hardly a page of this little book
without a good story of the General; the
travelling bell-push and cord that went
from the General’s room to the Captain’s
room wherever they were billeted ; the
blackout equipment which had to be
pinned over the windows of any room
where the General slept; the officer of the
Prussian Guards who got Kaiser
Wilhelm’s permission to wear “his sign
of salvation service” (the Salvation Army
badge) on his military uniform; the
General’s special prayer at public meet-
ings for newspaper reporters, designated
as those “who always arrive late, leave
early and never give anything to the col-
lection” ; the long poem “The Grog-
seller’s Dream” (given complete) which
the old General recited to his daughter.
Commissioner Lucy Booth-Hellberg, and
her two daughters during a tour of
Denmark;
A grog-seller sat by his bar-room fire.
His feet as high as his head and higher .. .;
the captain of the Marama travelling
from Australia to New Zealand in 1920,
with whpm General Bramwell Booth
prayed for deliverance from a hurricane,
who shook hands and said:
“Thank you, General Booth. Do you
know, you are the only man who has
prayed with me since your dear old father
crossed over on this same ship fifteen years
ago.”
Fijian Sugarcane,
Though it is doubtful if Norman
Carew’s Ploughman's Wisdom (Faber)
what author and publisher claim as
“contribution to the resolution of the
modern doubts about the plough,’
aroused in part by Edward H. Faulkner’s
Ploughman’s Folly , it is certainly a very
good textbook on sugar-growing in the
Fiji Islands.
As such, and also as a sort of purely
localised answer to Faulkner, Mr.
Carew’s book becomes another layer on
the steadily-growing mountain of books
on farming—a mountain that grows be-
cause there is a fear abroad that we may
eventually starve ourselves off this planet
and because, more immediately, Britain
wants to grow as much as possible of its
own food.
The present reviewer, who doesn’t
agree with Faulkner, isn’t astonished that
the Faulkner gospel is no more good to
Fiji cane than to Wimmera wheat. But
there is an inference in Ploughman’s
Wisdom that it was written as a chal-
lenge or denial or something to Plough-
man’s Folly, and that won’t do.
What so many of these writers on the
soil overlook is that you simply cannot
generalise in agriculture. Two men may
grow wheat on each side of a road, and,
although there are certain basic rules
each must follow, the methods of one
won’t suit the other. It’s all .a matter of
aspect, rainfall, soil composition and,
importantly, human nature. In agricul-
ture one man’s wheat may easily be an-
other’s poison.
Apart from that, Ploughman’s Wisdom
is a real contribution to the technical
literature on sugarcane-growing, and is
likely to be popular in Queensland,
Jamaica, Cuba and other cane countries.
It is clearly written and the author’s ex-
periments are painstakingly described,
with neat summaries at the end of each
chapter. And there are interesting
glimpses of Fiji’s sugar history, the im-
pact of the Indian on the native and of
the impact of the white man on both.
C. S.
Music, Movement and the Young
Child: Heather Cell (Australasian Pub-
lishing Co.). Chiefly for kindergarten and
infant-school teachers. Miss Cell de-
velops her ideas from the eurhythmies of
Dalcroze, and “the keynote of this music-
method is spontaneity and joy in move-
ment.”


Austral Breeze Fan, 59/6
Sin. fixed type, finished in Brown
brocade enamel and fitted with 6ft.
flex. Suitable for A.C. Plug extra.
-
■ i
Porcelain Electric Jug, 39/6
With moulded bakelite lid and
approx, capacity of 3|- pts., Cream
porcelain body Jug is priced at
39/6. Flex and plugs, 6/- extra.
.
■
V 'J
latvhins’ Utility Lamp, 43/6
ipecially designed for motorists,
armers, campers, fishermen, etc.,
an be adjusted to any angle. Com-
pete with battery and steel case.
1
MeUElec Toaster, 37/6
With highly polished plated finish,
guaranteed for 12 months, flex and
plugs 6/- extra. Price, 37/6 each.
■Hclvettiiiruj
NTHONY HORDERNS
\
s-
\W/7
i
7
Four Slice
economical family size
"Met-Elec” Electric Toaster
[This wonderful, new Electric Toaster will cook for you four large slices of toast at once!
The toast will be deliciously crisp and crunchy and the lovely golden
brown we all love toast to be! High polish plate finish
and priced at only 65/-. (Flex and plugs, 6/- extra.)
m
' ■
s
M:
m
The S.T.C. Electric Waffle Iron, £5/716
Complete with recipe book and 12 months’ guarantee,
this Waffle Iron', £5/7/6! Flex and plugs are 6/- extra.
H.JII.V. Controlled Heat Electric Iron, £4/4/-
With a twist of the knob, the correct heat for any material!
Fitted with 9ft. of flex, heat-resistant handle; plug extra.
A necessity for the holidays ahead!
English Thermos Flask with two-cup capacity. Price, 12/3.
..fV*
f 1 1
m
t * ~
fs. W.Wk
mmmm /</, '■ r <
X
k:
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ ELECTRICAL CENTRE —GROUND FLOOR, PITT STREET. PHONE: M 244)1; BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


Hi
X.
%
Ik
t \
■
* .-
&
m
m
m
Photograph by Dr. Julian Smith
A LIFE
HANGS IN THE BALANCE
*
The operation is over, and the flame of life that suddenly became dim has been
revived by a blood transfusion made possible by Red Cross. But there are
many anxious hours ahead, and further transfusions may be necessary before the
patient is out of danger.
Hour by hour, through day and night, the Red Cross Blood Transfusion
Service speeds life-giving blood to hospitals as a work of mercy. Here, doctors
♦ and nurses anxiously await its arrival to revive young and old whose lives have
almost ebbed away through illness, accidents or operations.
Red Cross is proud to render this service to the community, and looks to every
citizen for assistance in maintaining it. Blood transfusion is but one of the
many services which Red Cross gives to humanity, for ex-Servicemen and
civilians alike —perhaps, to-morrow, for you or your loved ones.
This is Red Cross Month, when an appeal is made to those in health to
help those who are sick and in need. Will you send a donation, no matter
how small, to the New South Wales Division, Australian Red Cross Society,
27 Jamieson Street, Sydney.
Blood donors are cdso urgently needed. If you are willing to help, will you please
write or telephone the Red Cross Blood Transfusion Service, 374 George Street,
Sydney. Tel.: 8W1684 .
GIVE TO RED CROSS
mat /uwe Jlmt
NEW SOUTH WALES DIVISION, AUSTRALIAN RED CROSS SOCIETY


The Bulletin
Vol. 70—No. 3645
Wednesday, December 21, 1949
“COMING OUR WAY?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
WHAT THE NATION WANTS
For over 10 years, which is a long period
in the life of anyone, Australia has been
the victim of waf-strain and political
experiment and larrikinism. For the first
two years of the decade there was pre-
paration for war; for the next four years
we had war brought to our own shores,
with a mobilisation of manpower and
materials on a scale second only, within
the Empire, to that of Britain itself; and
for the last four we have been subject
to an assault by Socialists and Com-
munists, with their activities dating back
even into the war years and before.
The waste and disruption of war was
largely unavoidable, though there is no
doubt that this country did pay for much
“political” wastage in the process. For
the years of our lives, for the national
wealth and the industrial opportunity that
have been wasted since the end of the
war there can be little, or no, excuse.
Even allowing for what has been done
to extend the framework of social ser-
vices, jt can be rightly contended that
what “Labor” has achieved in this direc-
tion could have been accomplished by a
less-revolutionary party without endanger-
ing the structure of the entire national
economy, the breakdown of which would
mean not only the failure of all “social-
security” plannings but also the financial
and industrial side of things upon which
employment itself depends. We could, in
brief, have made sound progress in many
new directions without almost burning
down the house in order to roast a pig.
Favored, though the Socialist Adminis-
tration was by bountiful seasons and
high prices for primary products abroad,
with a great home demand for all manu-
factures, the nation’s industries in many
respects are in a run-down condition
today. Emphasis has been placed on the
production of consumer goods, even
though many of these remain inadequate ;
Mr. Pollard, the late Minister for Agri-
culture, himself drew attention —proudly
—to the increase in the amount of beer
and ice-cream which was now available
and the high attendances at picture-shows.
He didn’t mention the multiplied facilities
for gambling, but he really confirmed the
view of Professor Copland, who had
previously commented on the weaknesses
in what he described as a “milk-bar
economy,”
Australia needs new tools in order to
get on with the job of post-war, post-
Socialist reconstruction. It needs much
more coal, more steel, more bricks, more
cement. It needs a removal of treacher-
ous Communist obstructionism in the
trade-unions—several key unions having
a very bad record in that they have played
a game in which no one benefits except
Moscow. It needs many more homes. It
needs the buying-power of its currency
to be stabilised. And it needs to be
assured that not only will enterprise have
its rewards but also thrift its privileges.
If we are to have continuing full
employment there must be no mistaking
the need for supplying the industrial com-
munity with adequate tools and equipment
to work with. The pastoral industries
require a great deal in the way of wire-
netting and galvanised-iron, as well as
piping, cement, petrol-driven vehicles, etc.
Great national works are wanted also to
equip this country for the development
that is obviously needed if we are to take
the present opportunity of increasing our
population by immigration. Large works
are required, anyway, to provide for the
existing population. Water-conservation,
electricity-supply, coastal shipping faci-
lities and unproved roads and railways all
call for the speediest possible attention.
To do the job that is needed the
Liberal-Country party must aim from the
outset to become a joint Production party.
It must budget for development on a
scale that will eventually look after in-
creasing population, an increasing
standard of living and a greater social-
security obligation than before the war.
In this budgeting it must recognise
that “full employment” really means
that —it is no use having a mere
payroll form of full employment without
corresponding full production. Social-
security obligations and higher wages
must be backed by correspondingly
higher output. Though, in view
of our less-mechanised industrial
organisation, we. can hardly cope with
United States standards of output, and
therefore the 40-hour week may seem out
of place, we must first of all try to see
what can be achieved under a 40-hour
week and a Liberal-C.P, operating to-
gether. Given enough coal for power
and transport purposes, and with
deliberate Communist sabotage checked,
there is no doubt about our capacity to
produce much more under a 40-hour week
than has been the experience over the past
two years.
. Growing production will check infla-
tion ; and the curbing of inflation will
help production. Thus can the present
vicious cycle be reversed. Whatever the
sectional interests involved, the broad
joint aims of the Liberal and Country
parties should be to check inflation and
increase industrial as well as rural out-
put. The success of every other economic
objective the parties may jointly or
severally cherish depends upon the
achievement of these two primary aims.
Communists and the Unions.
One of the first matters with which the
new Commonwealth Ministry will have
to deal is the suppression of Communism.
It will not be as easy as it might look.
Iwice in Australian history —once
before and once during World War II
Governments have essayed the task.
Each time they have failed to make their
measures effective because each time the
Labor party has lent its facilities to the
Communists, who have gone under-
ground in the unions and in fefiow-
travellef organisations.
The signs are that “Labor” will do it
again, A few months ago, when it seemed
necessary for “Labor” success at the polls
to persuade the country that “Labor”
was actively anti-Communist, the indus-
trial groups of the A.L.P. were very
vocal, but a strange silence has
since fallen over their operations. The
most important section of the Australian
Labor party, particularly in N. S. Wales,
is composed of affiliated Communist-
run unions like the Waterside Workers’
Federation, which send their delegates to
annual conferences of the party, and
Trades Hall Councils, of which one in-
cluded in the Federal A.L.P.’s directory
is Brisbane Trades Hall Council, secre-
tary M. Healy”—Mr. Healy being a well-
known Communist,
When Communists were grabbed in
June, 1940, Stalin and Hitler then being
as thick as thieves, staunch “Labor” men,
some of them having recently professed
to be engaged in the Communist hunt in
the unions, protested violently. Ex-
Comrade R. A. King, for instance, said
that the raids on Communist offices and
homes were “exactly the type of raid that
ultimately led to the suppression of the
trade-unions and all other working-class
organisations in other countries.”
The current situation seems to have
been well summed-up by a pamphlet
issued by the N. S. Wales Trades and
Labor Council (an official section of the
A.L.P.), with a preface by the Communist-
giant-killer Mr, King, written by the
head professor of the Marx School, E.
W. Campbell, referring to the sham rule
which excludes Communists from Labor
membership:
This shameful rule, excluding Com-
munists from the A.L.P., remains on the
books to-day, and acts as a barrier to
unity, which has been largely realised in
practice, being given organisational form.
The measures which are needed go far
beyond the mere banning of the party,
the hypothecation of its obvious property
and the removal of known Communists
from union positions and offices in the
civil service. There are just as many
unknown Communists in office as there
are known ones, and it can be taken that
these will be sheltered by the “Labor”
party. There are furtive firms associ-
ated with the party and associations
which, while they vehemently deny that
they are Communist, have actually been
formed by Communists. And it can be
taken that the main organisation of the
party is already dispersed and under-
ground.
The fact that some unions during, and
directly after, the election have, in the
most barefaced manner, re-elected Com-
munist officers knowing what the new
Government’s intentions are makes it
clear that the fight is not going to be
with the avowed Communists alone. The
class-war organisation which Messrs.
Chifley and Evatt and their industrial off-
siders lead will be the Communist shield
in the battle, and if that shield cannot be
broken the Communists will continue to
operate at their own sweet will.
It is a case, therefore, of dealing not
merely with the Communists but with the
union membership which A.L.P. speakers
invariably declare to be out of sympathy
with Communism despite the fact that
they insist on following Communist
leaders in lawlessness on passing resolu-
tions sponsored by Communists, as the
A.C.T.U. conference on the basic-wage
hearing did only last week, and on
pursuing a Communist policy.
Unions which insist on Communist
leadership should be treated similarly
to the Communist party. Their
registration should be suspended until they
obey the law enforced against Com-
munists. Furthermore, all unions need to
be subjected to a closer legal control in
matters of finance than at present.
The events of last winter’s coal strike
showed a laxity on the part of executives
of some unions in financial matters almost
as unbelievable as the utter lack of in-
terest on the part of the rank-and-file in
such matters. Cheques were signed in
blank and filled in by officers of the
unions, not always at the top. Large
sums of money were spirited away and
illegally hidden in defiance of the Arbi-
tration Court, and there were other
strange proceedings.
One of the measures most needed to
prevent the large-scale functioning of the
Communist party is a complete re-
organisation of the law* dealing with trade-
unions. The quasi-legal powers under
which unions virtually create their own
courts and arbitrarily fine members who
refuse to subscribe to the principle of the
class war should be drastically watered
down.
It is a vital necessity that, whatever
measures are taken against Communists,
the very first one should be a thorough
public audit of the books of such unions
as the Watersiders (which published an
illegal journal during the war, and which
is run by Communists); the Iron-
workers’ Federation, whose secretary
openly proclaimed in 1948 that the Com-
munist party made its policy; and other
metal-trade unions associated with the
Communist leaderships, the ramifications
of which are particularly important from
a defence point of view.
If union money has been used in a
proper way the officials concerned have
nothing to fear, but if it has been used for
Communist purposes or in any way not
in line with the legitimate operations of
the union those responsible should be
appropriately dealt with.
One thing is certain. The Government
will never stamp out Communism until
it lets sufficient daylight into union
managements to make it impossible for
Communists, clandestine or otherwise, to
use union funds and power to serve the
interests of a foreign Power which is
bent upon destroying the British Com-
monwealth.
The Lead to Britain.
Socialism has had its fling in all three
of the most British regions of the British
Commonwealth—in Australia, in New
Zealand, and in the United Kingdom it-
self. There have been certain local differ-
ences in the conduct of what the U.IG
apologists for it call “the great experi-
ment.” In New Zealand it lasted longest,
dating from the middle ’thirties, and there,
as in Britain, the policy was at least
authorised by the electorate. In Australia
the late Chifley Government possessed
no such mandate, and that circumstance
thoroughly justified the Chifley Govern-
ment’s utter rout at the late elections.
In Britain special considerations have
been operating. To the war-exhaustion
of the United Kingdom’s people and
material resources there was to be found
not even the remotest parallel in the
Australasian countries. The close of
hostilities offered them, and has continued
to offer them, the best possible markets
at unprecedented prices for their staple
exports. With Europe and Asia starving
for every variety of our foodstuffs, with
our base metals transmuted almost into
gold by sheer scarcity, the local Socialist
experiment could exploit an entirely
ephemeral atmosphere of “prosperity.”
Britain, on the other hand, was caught
in the wave of want and desperation
which afflicted all the post-war industrial
economy of Western Europe. These were
conditions upon which the Communist
parties in every country east of the Rhine
seized for the forwarding of their revo-
lution, mostly riding on the backs of their
Socialist allies.
It must have become clear to most
British electors that the Socialist State is
reared upon the same “class war” that
the Communists preach. In the upshot,
while the modem recognition of a definite
role of Government in national economic
planning is endorsed by all British political
parties, the revolt against the Socialist ex-
periment in Britain is spreading from a
refusal to exalt the Welfare State at the
expense of “the integrity and worth and
personal freedom of the individual in
society,” The phrase is one from a recent
powerful address by the Canadian
Minister for External Affairs, whose
words might have fallen from any British
Conservative leader.
Nowhere has the voting at the Aus-
tralian elections been watched more
closely or received with greater en-
thusiasm than in Britain. The onset of
inflation has not yet impressed the work-
ing man. He feels the power of his
unions and thinks he can now do as he
likes. But the illusion is fading, and
the British Socialist Government has
been unable latterly to disguise from
British workers the truth that the
whole Utopian scheme depends on Ameri-
can support, and that is rapidly drawing
to its end.
In Britain the plea on which the
Socialists are preparing to rely at the polls
is that only “Labor” can maintain pros-
perity and avert a depression. If that
plea is to wear any likeness to the facts
the elections will have to be held soon.
Both the New Zealand and Australian
Socialist Governments have gone down
in disaster on precisely the same propa-
ganda. The electors simply refused on
the evidence to believe them. It is a
characteristic of British democracies that
they show at election-times a healthy
aversion to theories and give their judg-
ment on plain facts. They voted origin-
ally for the Socialists because of the
clamant need for reform in the industrial
system. Now the United Kingdom is
obviously going bankrupt under a Gov-
ernment driving impenitently towards
nationalisation of all industries for
nationalisation’s sake, regardless of the
consequences. So plainly has the British
“Labor” party’s manifesto from the 1949
conference declared for unlimited exten-
sion of this policy if it should win the
coming elections that the British electors
cannot miss the conclusion that their
Socialist Government is ready to risk the
whole status of Britain as a world Power
in a gamble on the efficacy of their party’s
political theory.
1 his issue, with the admission it
entails of failure so far to produce results,
is endorsed by the Socialist Government’s
own attitude. If the Attlee-Cripps outfit
really believed its own protestations it
would not have tinkered with the obliga-
tion (admitted at the Washington con-
ference last July) to prune drastically a
Government expenditure now snowball-
ing to unmanageable proportions. The
handling of difficulties arising from drastic
devaluation of the currency against the
dollar showed the base metal of these
Socialists when the testing-time comes.
By every tradition of the House of
Commons the Government should last
autumn have gone to the country to get
its warrant for action. Attlee and Co.
shirked that. They knew that, with the
possibility of an early election in the air,
it was 'hopeless to expect that a nation
already thrown into dissension would put
its back into a united effort to produce
still more goods for still fewer dollars.
They ignored that. They insisted that the
legislation to nationalise the steel industry,
the nation’s mainstay as an income-earner
and one of the foundations of “full
employment,” must be completed during
this Parliament. Then they abandoned
that stand, and agreed to postpone the
steel decision until after the next elections.
Those elections cannot now come too
soon for the sake of the country’s future.
Marshall aid will run out in June, 1952,
at latest. The Americans are already talk-
ing about substituting for it a system of
direct loans to foreign industrial enter-
prises. To Congress the American sup-
port of reviving German and Japanese
export industries seems, not unnaturally,
incompatible with American financial
assistance of Socialist industrial under-
takings in Britain which will in all like-
lihood be unable to stand up against
restored German and Japanese competi-
tion in international markets. The
prospect does not make sense to the
American taxpayer, and is regarded with
dismay by British industrialists, who,
with every handicap laid on them by their
own Government, are warned from the
same quarter that they must either func-
tion efficiently or be nationalised. That
the steel industry, under suspended sen-
tence, is and has been functioning with
outstanding efficiency indicates that the
Attlee Government is prompted by no
principle but only by a totalitarian urge.
Australians saw the identical thing in the
Chifley Government’s operations against
the banks.
The same fate awaits the “Labor” party
in Britain as in Australia. If it persists
in a revolutionary policy ruinous to the
nation its prospects of returning to
power are doomed for an indefinite
period. Had elections been held last
October Britain might have given the
lead to Australia and New Zealand. In
the event the lead has been given the
other way round.


PLAIN ENGLISH
The New Cabinet.
The new Federal Cabinet contained few
surprises by the time its personnel was
announced on December 18, though the
daily Press had guessed almost every
permutation and combination of mem-
bers possible during the week, and a fit-
ting finale to the speculation was Sydney
“Herald’s” giving wrong names to photos
of four Ministers in the early Monday
edition. In any case, it was inevitable
that Messrs. Menzies, Fadden, Harrison,
Spender, Casey, Holt, McEwen, George
McLeay, Anthony and Earle Page, along
with Senator Cooper, who has borne the
brunt of the battle in an unbalanced
Upper House, would be chosen.
It was, however, also to be expected
that selections for the remaining offices
would have been discriminating and
worthy of the undoubted strength of the
new Government, even if the principle
was accepted that “State rights” should
have precedence over ability, the prin-
ciple, as it now operates, resulting in
a nice balance which gives Victoria six
members, N. S. Wales six, Queensland
four, S.A. two and the Speakership and
Tasmania the only woman member,
Dame Enid Lyons. W.A. is left out.
Generally speaking, the members are '
experienced and form a strong team, but
it is to be reinforced by the appointment
of under-secretaries, among whom, it is
suggested, Messrs. Gullett, Hasluck,
Howse and Falkinder (of Tasmania) will
be numbered. Some of these might well
have been given full Ministerial rank, and
the country in any case would have wel-
comed the choice of more new blood.
The selection of Mr. Francis, for in-
stance, as Minister for the Army and
Navy, might have been reconsidered;
the whole world is arming, and Aus-
tralian defence is to be reorganised on
modern lines. That his claims should
override those of men like Gullett, Howse
and Davidson, ahd of an experienced
soldier like Mr. Kent Hughes, who gave
up the Deputy-Premiership of Victoria to
enter the House of Representatives, is
difficult to follow. Similarly with the
choice of Mr. Howard Beale as Minister
for Information and Transport.
However, it can be taken for granted
that, with the large number of new
members in the Parliament, among whom
the only one to draw a lucky marble was
Mr. W. H. Spooner, who becomes
Minister for Social Services, the near
future will take care of those who do not
measure up to their jobs. Within a very
short time some of the abler new men
are certain to push forward. The com-
petition will be much keener than it has
been, and ability should count more than
of yore, especially under a Speakership
which is capable of improving standards
of debate and manners, as that of Mr.
A. G. Cameron undoubtedly will be.
The main thing now is to give the new
Ministry a chance to make good. It can
best establish confidence by swift action
to deal with inflation and Communist
union dislocation, and to remove public-
service excrescences and hampering con-
trols which have been turning this Com-
monwealth for some time into the near-
semblance of a Soviet satellite.
Coalfield Reds Outvoted.
Election to presidency of the northern
district of the Miners’ Federation of a
young miner from Kurri, George Neilly,
clinches the defeat of the Communists
in elections for official positions in recent
months. His chief opponent was the
Communist Comerford, chosen to depu-
tise for Idris Williams when the latter
was jailed for contempt of court during
the coal strike,
Neilly came out during the strike in
strong opposition to the Communist
miners’ leaders, and the support he gained
from the Kurri rank-and-file sent him
on a wider anti-strike campaign through-
out the northern fields.
His licking of Comerford for the posi-
tion vacated by Crook, elected M.L.A.
for Cessnock, follows the rout a month
ago of the Left-wing militants on the
northern board of management (where
they now hold only two out of 11 seats),
and an equally radical cleaning-up of
the miners’ executive. It is the miners’
executive, headed by Williams, which has
dominated the decisions of the Combined
Mining Council in producing political
strikes in the industry during the past
three years.
Undoubtedly the moderate majority of
coalminers, and particularly their wives,
have had enough of this Communist
sabotage of the industry ; and the costly
and futile coal strike of last winter
awakened great numbers of hitherto
inactive members of the Federation into
opposition to leaders who behaved as
though their authority was unchallenge-
able. It is all to the good that the new
president of the northern district, who has
taken a lead in this rank-and-file reaction,
is himself one of the younger members of
the Federation.
The general presidency of the miners’
body, held by Williams, goes to ballot
in the coming year.
The Welfare State.
From Auckland: Post-election U.S. jibes
or tilts at the still-lusty Welfare State
“down-under” didn’t make any distinc-
tion between Australia and New Zealand.
To them Maoriland is just a bit of Aus-
tralia that has got ahead of the rest in its
hurry to be a fully-fledged Welfare State.
This mixture of faint praise and loss of
individuality might not be palatable for
Maorilanders, who are a long way from
throwing the Welfare State overboard or
sinking their identity. There’s a hefty
bill of nearly £5O million yearly in taxes-
for them to foot —a heritage from
Socialism to keep social - security
schemes afloat, and that works out at
nearly £26 a head for every man, woman
and child .j but they have accepted this
so long as they can keep their economic
freedom. It’s a whacking price, and they’ll
have to step up production, but as they
have been resting on their oars it shouldn’t
hurt, especially if there is a carrot instead
of the socialistic lash.
The Dominion’s Welfare-State benefits
for the current year (ending March) are
topped by family, widows’ and orphans’
payments, £18,554,000, with pensions of
£13,791,000 to the aged next, medical
benefits of £7,562,000, war pensions
£5,072,000 and universal benefits of
£1,860,000 to round off the list. There’s
a good deal of money-juggling, because
family men above average income level,
who collect 10s. weekly for each youngster
in the home, probably pay in as much, or
somewhere near it, in taxes, direct or
indirect, as they draw out.
If the country’s Welfare State is to
have enough cake to go round the cake
will have to be bigger, and this means
toil. The Socialists were masters at
spending, but they fell down on produc-
tion. Now there’s a good deal of tuning-
up needed to get industry geared to
concert pitch. It is no use counting on
prosperity-by-inflation any more. The
Nationalists are pledged to provide sound
money, which means stopping the
economic rot and restoring a basis of
real wealth. Value must be pumped back
into the shrunken pound.
There is great danger in trying to take
long steps too quickly to gain the Wei-
fare State, says R. D. Brown, president
of M.L.’s Society of Accountants. Maori-
landers have been led up the garden-
path, but with their great export trade
and peak post-war prices they’ve been
able to afford it —so far. John Bull, by
contrast, has brought himself nearly to
bankruptcy in his hurry to get there.
Price of a Feed.
Eighteen years ago “a foreigner”
arrived in Sydney. With the depression
in full swing it was not the best of times
in which to start life afresh in a new
land, but Ivan Repin had tried worse
places—he had left Russia after the Revo-
lution and had lived in Siberia and
Shanghai—and was prepared to give it a
go. He opened a small coffee-shop in
King-street and ran it so competently that
before long he had two, then three, then
a whole string of shops which developed
from coffee-lounges into restaurants.
When he died last June he left an estate
valued for probate at £77,313.
Repin’s success was no doubt due in
great part to a flair for management, but
it is also in some measure an indication
of the money which may be made out of
feeding the public in a city the size of
Sydney. , His case is by no means an
isolated one; others starting with little
capital have found that eating-houses can
be small goldmines.
There are, of course, exceptions. Up
till a year ago one of these could be
found in George-street, midway between
a Repin shop and The Bulletin office.
Centrally situated in a busy area, with
plenty of passing traffic, it did not suffer
from lack of capital; when first estab-
lished its equipment was probably equal
to that of any restaurant in Sydney. It
was well-patronised; at peak hours
customers used to queue up there as
docilely as at any eating-house in the
hungry city.
Yet, for all that, when it closed its doors
last year the reason advanced was that
it was losing too much money. Not that
the crowd running it went bankrupt—
Government departments don’t have to
worry about such disheartening pro-
cedures —but when Mr. O’Sullivan,
N. S. Wales Minister for Railways, under
whose aegis the Wynyard Refreshment
Rooms were conducted, announced that
he was putting up the shutters, an annual
loss of somewhere in the vicinity of
£20,000 was admitted. Such a loss must
have seemed almost incredible to the late
(Continued on next page.)
NO BAN, EITHER.
“It’s all yours, Deddie—if you know how to pedal it.”


[For election matter David Adams, Cecil
Mann, J. B. Blair and M. H. Ellis, all of 252
George-street, Sydney, are responsible.]
..
CRAVENA
—for your
throat’s sake!
i
Obtainable in
10’s & 20's
CARRERAS LTD—OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION fOR QUALITY
Mr. Repin and to other Sydney restaura-
teurs, especially when they reflected that
the Wynyard show did not have to pay
rent, income tax or council rates as did
their own businesses with which it was
competing.
When the Wynyard restaurant closed
down the public accounts for the year
ended June 30, 1948, had recently been
tabled. The declared loss on all railway
refreshment services was £19,987, but the
Auditor-General’s report commented that
“the real deficiency on working for the
year was £97,987. Revenue was aug-
mented by a transfer of £78,000 from the
special reserve.” This reserve is described
in the railways accounts as a “Special
Reserve for the Stabilisation of Refresh-
ment Room Charges.” In addition to the
£78,000, it had been drawn upon in the
previous year for £32,000. By the time
the accounts for the year ended June 30,
1949, were published charges (or losses)
had apparently become stabilised, as the
loss for the year was shown at £84,373,
without any mention of the special
reserve. The stabilisation, if any, did not,
however, prevent the Treasurer froril
budgeting for a bigger loss, £95,000, for
the coming year.
There is a sequel to the story. A few
days ago a new restaurant opened its
doors at Wynyard. Privately-run, it will
pay rent to the Railways Department, and
will be liable for income tax on any
profits it may make. And any eating-
house proprietor in Sydney will be willing
to wager that it makes a profit.
POLITICAL POINTS
The crushing defeat of the Socialists,
while a triumph for the good sense of
freedom-loving Australians, was also a
personal triumph for Menzies. Even at
the end of the campaign there were still
fainthearts among Liberal supporters
who passed on the same old whisper,
“We’ll never win while Menzies is the
leader.” Nothing could have been
further from the case. The new Prime
Minister was never in better form than
during this campaign, and the inspiration
of his voice and presence must have been
worth tens of thousands of votes to his
side. The knockers should now be
silenced for good.
A notable feature of the election
was the rejection of the Chifleys by the
country electorates. In New South
Wales, of the 23 seats now held by
“Labor” only three are outside the
Sydney-Newcastle-Wollongong area, and
of those the town vote decided the issue.
Lithgow and Bathurst gave Chifley his
5000 - odd majority in Macquarie;
Goulburn and Queanbeyan outweighed
the rest of Eden-Monaro to keep Fraser in
a seat; in Darling, Broken Hill put Joe
Clark so far ahead that the rest of the
votes didn’t matter. It was the same
story in the other States. Despite record
high prices for primary products the
farmers have had “Labor.”
There have already been rumblings and
mutterings from Reds and Pinks of the
dire consequences that will ensue if the
Government carries out its avowed in-
tention of banning the Communist party.
From the Comrades themselves come
dark threats; from A. E. Monk and
others of his way of thinking is heard
the argument that to put ’em underground
will make things worse. It is rather diffi-
cult to see how the state of the country
at the time of the coal strike could have
been any worse if the Reds had been
underground instead of, as they were, very
much on top.
Another cry raised against the ban is
“It didn’t work last time.” The condi-
tions “last time” were these: Large
numbers of Australians still believed
Russia to be a peace-loving democratic
State; the Comrades were still able to
pose as champions of the worker; no
“Labor” leaders had spoken out against
them; and the “Labor” Opposition at
Canberra regarded the ban as a persecu-
tion. The first two conditions no longer
apply, and at the time of the coal strike
“Labor” members. State and Federal,
stumped the country abusing the Com-
munists as if they really meant it. Even
if Chifley and Co, oppose the ban as a
matter of lofty principle they cannot,
after their August-September perform-
ances, encourage the fiction that the
banned Comrades are martyrs, as they did
“last time.” In any case the banning
bill will have to get past the “Labor”
majority in the Senate.
In putting the double-dissolution
provision in the Constitution the
framers intended that where a deadlock
occurred between the two Houses a fresh
election following a dissolution would
give a clear mandate to one side or the
other. Under the newly-introduced sys-
tem of proportional representation this is
virtually impossible. In a double-disso-
lution the whole 60 Senators —10 from
each State—would go to the people, and
on past voting figures the only possible
result would be an evenly-divided House.
The Constitution provides that where
the Senate voting is equal the motion is
decided in the negative. The legislation
which occasioned the double-dissolution
could then be disposed of at a joint
meeting of the two Houses, but as far as
new business was concerned the Senate
deadlock would continue.
If the Government proposes to amend
the Constitution by referendum the ob-
stacle is not so great. A referendum Bill,
twice passed by one House and rejected
by the other, may be submitted to the
people without a dissolution.
The extent of the “Labor” defeat:
In the old House of Representatives
“Labor” had 43 members out of 74. Re-
distribution increased the number of
seats by 47, yet “Labor’s” numbers have
risen by only four, including two seats
wrested from Independent Labor.
Billy Hughes, home at the head of a
whacking majority in the new seat of
Bradfield, has now an unbroken run of
success in 19 Federal elections and is
about to open his 50th year in Federal
Parliament and, adding his 1894-1900
term in the N.S.W. Assembly, his 57th
as a Parliamentary representative. His
age now puts him out of the running for
Ministerial office; a senior post would
be too exacting and a junior one out of
the question. He was Leader of the
House of Reps before some members
now elected to sit alongside him were
born, and certainly before most of them
had a vote. He has been Father of the
House for so long that his status is now
that of grandfather. Some people who
not long ago thought Billy’s powers were
failing got a rude shock on finding that
he could hear everything they said and
anticipate most of it before they said it.
Hollway added two new Ministers to
his Cabinet last week —Guye, M.L.A. for
Polwarth, became Minister for Trans-
port in place of Kent Hughes, now
Federal member for Chisholm, and Hip-
worth (Swan Hill) was made an honorary
Minister. Both the new men are mem-
bers of the group which broke away
from the Country party last year and
joined the L.C.P. Likelihood of an early
election in Victoria seems to be receding,
and there is optimism that the breach
between the two non-Socialist parties
may be healed in the New Year. Voting
in the four electorates in which the
L.C.P. and the C.P. staged three-cornered
contests with “Labor” should not en-
courage the Dunstan-McDonald group
to work for an early election; in every
case the L.C.P. man was preferred by the
electors.
Victoria’s Attorney-General Oldham
scored a point at a Richmond by-
election meeting. He was claiming
credit on behalf of the Hollway Govern-
ment for importing coal to keep industry
going during the strike when someone
interjected: “Chifley unloaded the Hali-
gonian Duke.” Oldham flashed back,
“And the people of Australia unloaded
Mr. Chifley last Saturday.”
Queensland’s Premier Hanlon, back
from the London sugar conference,
refuses to see in the Federal-election
results any threat of danger for his own
mob, due to go to the country in a few
months’ time, because “With all the
changes of Federal Governments since
1915 Labor has lost only one election in
Queensland. There has never been any
relationship between Queensland and
Federal elections,” That may be so, but
it is also a fact that there is no relation-
ship between Queensland and Federal
electoral rolls,
Hanlon last faced the electors in May,
1947, and came back with a reduced
majority. His party lost two seats, win-
ning 36 against the joint-Opposition’s 22 ;
there were also one Independent, a couple
of private-label Laborites and the Com*
munist Paterson. That result was accom-
plished on a minority vote; Hanlon’s
party polled 272,103 votes and the C.P.-
Q.P.P. group 283,190.
McGirr and Co. will also come up for
judgment next year. The last New South
Wales election was held on May 3, 1947,
the same day as Queensland’s; McGirr
emerged from it slightly battered, but
with a majority (including two Langsters)
of 18, since reduced at by-elections to 12.
One of the biggest voting swings of
the Federal election was in the Evatt
country. The Doc.’s big majority in
Barton was whittled down below 2000 by
Nancy Wake, and next-door in St.
George, which includes a big slab of his
former domains, the Liberal candidate,
Graham, turned a deficit of over 10,000
into a majority of 1000. St. George
includes much of the territory comprising
Clive Evatt’s State seat, Hurstville, and, in
the part that belongs to Clive, Graham
headed the “Labor” man. If the State
Libs run a good candidate next year
Clive can shut up shop.
Early in the New Year there will be a
by-election for the New South Wales
Assembly seat. Concord, for the second
time in 10 months. “Labor” member
Carlton died early this year and at the
by-election last March the Liberal candi-
date, Brice Mutton, got home by 17 votes
after the Lang man’s preferences had been
distributed. Mutton died a few days
before the Federal election, so the seat
is again vacant. Concord forms a large
part of the new Federal electorate, Lowe,
which 12 days ago preferred Liberal to
“Labor” to the tune of 4000 votes, after
giving an Independent Liberal 2500.
A fresh crop of strikes is developing in
Melbourne, this time over that sacred
symbol Hebe. The Seamen’s Union will
refuse to man ships carrying beer and
malt if barmaids are barred from the
hostelries of Melbourne, and the Water-
side Workers’ Federation has chivalrously
sworn that it will support the Liquor
Trades Union, which threatens to strike
at Christmas if the ladies are paid off.
There are 520 unregistered barmaids in
the State. Most of them got in during
the war-time shortage.
If the new Minister for Repatriation is
a superstitious man he will toss his port-
folio straight back to the P.M. Frost,
who held the post under Curtin and
Chifley, was bowled over by Falkinder
in 1946, losing the Franklin seat, which
he had held, with one short gap, Since
1929 ; his successor, Barnard, member for
Bass for 15 years, has now been defeated
by Liberal Kekwick, Apparently Tas-
manians don’t like Ministers for Repatri-
ation.
To The Bulletin office last Thursday,
the day on which Dedman’s definite
defeat was announced, came a couple
more of the rotogravure booklets issued
by his department just before the election
and carrying a signed foreword by the
former Minister. Appropriately by same
mail came a copy of the Department of
Post-War Reconstruction’s magazine,
“Change Over.”
During the coal strike the A.C.T.U.
placed great emphasis on its belief in
arbitration. There appears to be some
strings attached to the belief. When the
unions submitted proposals to the Arbi-
tration Court for a £lO basic wage the
council virtually demanded an immediate
increase of £2 a week while the full claim
was being considered; this was the very
negation of the spirit of arbitration, but
it was consistent with the attitude shown
by the A.C.T.U. last Wednesday, when
the court adjourned for the long Christ-
mas vacation. A conference of 60 unions
asked the court to skip its holiday and
continue the hearing during January
the date fixed for resumption of the case
is February 14.
Sitting in judgment on its own case,
the conference decided that the refusal
of the court to make an interim award
was “an injustice which must be ended
immediately” and that “the injustice is
aggravated by the continued delay in
finalising our full claim.” Workers in
every city are to be asked to attend mass
meetings on February 12, presumably to
assist the judges in arriving at a free
and unbiased decision. It may be a co-
incidence, but these tactics of holding
mass demonstrations while an industrial
case is being heard are essentially those
of the Red-bossed unions.
Dr, L. W. Nott (Independent) is to be
the first Federal member for Canberra.
He has been superintendent of the Com-
munity Hospital there for years, but he
sat in the Reps for a term over 20 years
ago, when he achieved fame by toppling
Theodore from the almost impregnable
“Labor” seat, Herbert,
One of the first jobs of new External
Affairs Minister Spender will be to put
Australian-Dutch relations back on the
old friendly footing which existed before
Our (late) Foreign Policy handed over
control to the Communist-led watersiders.
Commenting last week on the Liberal-
Country-party victory, a Batavian news-
paper said that Australia’s foreign policy
had been in the hands of “flaming-red
wharfies” under the “Labor” Govern-
ment, which had “treated the Dutch as
if they were enemies and played into the
hands of the Asiatic Communists.” That
is undoubtedly true, and it is one of the
worst blots on Dr. Evatt’s conduct of
External Affairs.


1847
R
«
MAKERS
OF GOOD WIN!
FOR MORE THAN
A CENTURY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Destroyers, particularly the young-
cruiser breed like the 44,000 h.p., 36-odd
knot Bataan, are make-or-break ships for
their captains; but there’s little doubt
how heavyweight Commander William
Beresford Marks (naturally called Harpo)
will handle his new command. Reaching
over six feet, phlegmatic and well-liked,
he is a gunnery man whom no one has
seen in a hurry. Beginning with cruiser
Australia, for which ship he pulled in the
officers’ gig during that famous Alex-
andrian regatta when the Aussie cruiser
tossed the entire Mediterranean Fleet, he
had eight months in cruiser Canberra
before shifting to destroyer Napier, as
gunnery-officer of the 7th Destroyer
Flotilla screening Somerville’s Eastern
Battle Fleet. At the cease-fire he was
Squadron gunnery-jack of the Australian
Fleet, butt of all the questions the Fleet
brought in after a shoot that should have
straddled but didn’t scare the target. Billy
Hughes was a great friend of his father,
whom he made Minister of External
Affairs in 1920.
Harold Holt, comfortably in for Higgins
(Vic.), was the youngest Minister in the
last Menzies Cabinet. Educated at Wesley,
he had a successful career at the ’Varsity,
became assistant to Maxwell, the blind
barrister, and at 26 was taken to London
by R. G. Menzies to help him before the
Privy Council in the dried-fruit case. He
has just nudged 40.
Paul Hasluck, in for Curtin (W.A.),
coiner of the priceless image of Dr.
Evatt as a bird of passage who changed
plumage in mid-flight, started out on the
.literary staff of the “West Australian,”
joining it at 17, after graduating from
Westralia’s University. Always bright on
history, he was secretary of the State’s
Historical Society for six years, and in
1940 returned to his alma mater as
lecturer in the subject. A year of
that, before seconding to the Depart-
ment of External Affairs, in which
he quickly blossomed into an international
figure, ending as counsellor to the Aus-
tralian Mission at U.N. headquarters, and,
for a time, this country’s representative
on the Security Council. In four years
with the department he attended con-
ferences in Canada, Wellington, London
and San Francisco. A man with
the full courage of his convictions,
a lucid mind and the gift of industry, he
should have a great future when rough-
and-tumble politics have moulded him
and made him wise on local affairs. Now
44, he has three books to his credit, mainly
on Binghi. He hails from Fremantle.
“Ek Dum’s” biography:
Archie Galbraith Cameron, who is to become
Speaker of the new House of Reps, is the son
of a South Australian shearer, and looks it.
He was bred in the rougher parts of the State,
enlisted at 19 and served in the 27th Battalion
A.I.F, in France with his close personal friend
Tom Playford. On his return he was an ardent
militia soldier, and lent considerable color both
16 the appearance and language of the local
detachment of the Cameron Highlanders, in
which he rose to the rank of major. During
World War ll—which he began as Deputy
Prime Minister, C.P. leader, Minister for Com-
merce and the Havy—he resigned from his
offices on a matter of principle connected with
the political allotment of wool-auction centres.
He immediately asked to be sent on active
service, but was allotted to Sir Thomas Blarney’s
Intelligence staff as officer in charge of the
study of enemy order of battle in the Pacific.
His refusal to wear a staff cap, his consistent
habit of believing that there was a war on
(a conviction not always shared in local military
circles) made him an uncomfortable colleague.
He worked like a beaver. After 1943 he
added to his own the Parliamentary
affairs of the N.T., whose member was a
p.-0.-w. Cameron graduated to Federal
politics in 1934 from the S.A. Parliament as
member for Barker in the Reps. It took him
four years to become a Minister. His first
moves in the new Parliament were against the
Communists, and particularly against J. S.
Garden, whose expulsion from the House he
tried to move on the ground that as a Com-
munist he was incompetent to take an oath
of allegiance. Since then Barker’s member has
been pursued with particular hatred by the
Communists and their fellow-travellers. In
recent years the new Speaker-elect has graduated
in private life from a marginal-area wheatfarm
to a rich 120 acres at Oakbank (S.A.), next to
Onkaparinga Racecourse, where he grows dairy
cows, fat calves, sub-clover hay, geese, fruit
and trout, which grow so big in his creek that
they eat his goslings. He is an acknowledged
authority on Federal Parliamentary procedure
and standing orders, but the House will miss
him as one of its best three or four polemic
debaters. He had a special celebration on
December 19—-his only son lan, who is about
twice his father’s size, was admitted to the
South Australian Bar.
“Liss”: Ask postie Jim MacDowall
what he thinks of the 40-hour week and
he’ll ask you what it is. For the past
15 years Jim’s beat has ranged for nearly
350 miles every fortnight up through
Cape York Peninsula, through Coen,
Wenlock-Moreton, Merluna, Wenlock
again and back to base. A car might get
him the first five miles or so —he uses
instead a trusty nag and a dozen pack-
horses, all of which, by virtue of the four
months of torrential and pestilential
“wet,” have to be equine Boy Charltons.
Now over 60, and topping 15 stone,
Jim has ridden, swum, slid over and
serviced something close to 135,000 miles
of what must rate among the toughest
and loneliest postal beats in the world.
“King’s Pawn”: Whatever else they
left behind them, the D.Ps, from
countries where chess is a national game,
and is often taught at school, packed
their chess-sets. Two of them, R. Svarcs
and C. Schoenfeld, divided third prize in
the N.S.W. Chess Championship, and
both got into the representative team
which played Victoria in the recent
telegraphic match; Svarcs was in as a
reserve. Dr. A. Ozols, champion of his
native Lithuania, won the Victorian
Championship and led that State’s team,
with P. Ihnanento also in. South Aus-
tralia depends upon its new D.P. chess
recruits to make the coming telegraphic
match with N.S.W. a good effort.
Recently a moderate Sydney team making
a tour of N.S.W. and Victoria, and not
expecting serious opposition, took some
dreadful beatings. Local chess-clubs had
recruited players from near-by D.P.
camps—some of these were men of
championship rank in Europe.
Herewith Tassie’s Melbourne Tourist
Bureau manager, G. S. Roberts, now up
to his eyes steering the Christmas
exodus across the Strait. In the
tourist business for 36 years, he’s seen the
Apple Isle’s tourist trade expand from a
mere trickle to its present annual influx
of over 100,000 visitors, who leave behind,
at the modest rate of 50-quid per head
(excluding purchase of Tatt’s tickets), two
PLEA SU RE-ENGINEER.
million or more. Born at Ross (Tas.),
Roberts spent his 18th birthday on Gal-
lipoli with the Ist Division Artillery, and
the next couple in France and Belgium.
Originally manager in Hobart, he has
since most enthusiastically and effectively
preached the gospel of hill and dale for
the Apple Isle as far north as Brisbane
and most places in between.
Presented here by Lambart, Com-
mander W. K. Kirkcaldie, Shell’s genial
chief-engineer in' Queensland, and, in his
time, engineer of many other things.
Joining the R.A.N. Reserve in 1911, his
active service started a day or so after
World War I began, when he helped to
capture the German merchantman Berlin
off Sydney. Later, as engineer-officer of
the horse-transport Boonah, he served
PROPELLER-ENGINEER.
under Captain John King Davis, of
Antarctic fame, shipping horses to Egypt.
He finished that war in the engine-room
of an auxiliary-cruiser of the 10th Cruiser
Squadron, convoying Doughboys across
the Atlantic, Four more years of
propeller-pounding under the Red Duster
before, in 1923, he swallowed the anchor
—leaving enough cable running free, how-
ever, to haul it out again after 16 years’
shore service with Shell, including the
choosing of sites on Suva for the com-
pany’s expansion there. World War II
found him lieutenant-commander and
boss of survey-vessel Moresby’s engine-
room. Here his responsibility was a
heavy one —Moresby, feeling with sonic
fingers the ocean-floor between Port
Moresby and Cape York, and entrances
to the Reef, was deliberately steaming
through mainly uncharted country, and
engine reliability was a prime essential.
After leaving his name on the chart beside
a reef off Cape York, Kirkcaldie came
ashore as second-assistant to the Director
of Engineering at Navy Office. This
appointment carried with it promotion to
commander’s rank, which makes Kirk-
caldie the first engineer-officer of the
R.A.N.R. to reach it.
Crow’s Nest, outside Toowoomba, on
the Downs (Q.), is to honor its V.C.,
Corporal John French, with a large
public-hall. French won immortality
when leading his section in the Milne
Bay action on September 4, 1942, when
it was halted by three Jap machine-
gun posts. He tackled one with grenades,
finished it and his supply, returned for
more, blew the second post into silence
and took on the third with his Owen. A
burst of m.-g. fire hit him cruelly, but
French lurched on into the searing fire.
His section rushed the post and found
their corporal riddled in front of it —so
were all the members of its gun’s "brew.
Two Diggers who resigned from Wes-
tralia’s Assembly for a shot at the Reps,
have hit their bull. Hugh Leslie, new
C.R man for Moore, has been M-L.A.
for Mt. Marshall for the past six years,
and was Country-party whip when he
resigned. He served in both World Wars,
in East Africa with a South African unit
in the first and in North Africa with the
Second A.I.F. He came back minus a
leg, which he left at Tobruk. A journa-
list, he first trod the Inky Way on a
Jo’burg paper, and for it covered the big
Rand strike of the early ’twenties, land-
ing in Melbourne for the 1927 Victorian
police strike. Then country journalism
in the West claimed him. A livewire in
R.S.L. affairs, he was president of the
Wyalkatchem sub-branch when he en-
listed the second time. In recent years
he’s been a member of the R.S.L. State
executive and of the Westraliah Post-
War Reconstruction Regional Committee.
Twenty-eight-year-old William Gray-
den, winner of Swan for the Liberals,
had an unsuccessful fly for this seat in
1946, but won the Middle Swan seat in
the Assembly the next year. Grayden is
the grandson of one of the State’s old
identities, Nat Harper, who years ago
sat in the State Parliament, first for
Beverley and then for Pingelly. One of
Grayden’s biggest fights in the Assembly
was his unsuccessful effort to establish
his grandfather’s claim to the honor of
being the first to propose the goldfields’
water-supply scheme. His war service
began in Syria and ended in the Celebes.
The last appointment of Captain
James Esdaile, C.8.E., R.A.N. (who is
slipping his hook from 36 years blue-
watering), was possibly his most difficult—
as Director of Manning his was the job,
in these days of superior shore-side in-
ducements, of keeping ships of the Fleet
manned to seagoing efficiency. One of
that famous first class of cadets to join
the College at Jervis Bay in 1913, among
his classmates were J. A. Collins, now
First Naval Member ; H. B. Farncomb,
till recently seagoing head of the Fleet;
Captain J. Burnett, who went with cruiser
Sydney ; Captain F. E. Getting, killed at
Savo Island in cruiser Canberra; H. A.
Showers, who took Shropshire through a
savage six months of the Pacific war,
and who was the first member of
the college to reach Naval Board
eminence; and Eric Feldt, of The
Coastwatchers. Esdaile did his war-
time seagoing in cruiser Adelaide,
in command of a Task Force comprising
two cruisers and two destroyers of the
Netherlands Navy. In the Kaiser’s war
he was in battlecruiser Australia, attached
to the 2nd battlecruiser squadron of the
Grand Fleet.
Appointed lecturer in philosophy at
Westralia’s University, Selwyn A. Grave,
lately of St. John’s Theological College,
Auckland (M.L.). Son of William Grave,
whose explorations in opening up M.L.’s
Fiordland are perpetuated by the Grave-
Talbot track in that region, Selwyn was
part-time lecturer in philosophy for ten
years at the University of Otago.
Also off to the West, as curator of
Perth Art Gallery, Maorilander James
Cook, who has been on a painting-tour
of his ain countree. Prominent in art
circles in M.L. and N.S.W., when war
broke out he was sent to New Guinea
as official artist to the Australian forces.
Into the Silence:
In Singapore, at 45, after a kris-stabbing at
Sibu, Sarawak, Duncan George Stewart,
C.M.G., Governor of Sarawak. A Winchester
and Oxford man, he served his cadetship in
the British Colonial Service in Nigeria, had
10 years there, and left it District Officer.
Towards the end of World War 11 he was
Colonial Secretary in the Bahamas, and two
years after it ended shifted east to Palestine,
as Financial Secretary. He came to Sarawak
from Cyprus.
At Ferny Creek (Vic.), at 66, James Gate-
house, one of the founders and chairman of
directors of James Minilie and Co. President
of the Federal Council of Flourmill Owners,
he had been on the Australian Wheat Board
for 10 years.
At 79, in Melbourne, Alexander William
Wilson, familiar to dairymen throughout the
Commonwealth for his driving interest in pro-
ducers’ co-operative societies. Of these, he
founded, and became g.-m. of, the Gippsland
and Northern Co-op. Co., and helped to estab-
lish four others, whose interests ranged from
box-making to insurance.
In Melbourne, at 71, Father Wilfrid Ryan,
scholar, brilliant linguist, philosopher and,
between 1940-48, Father Superior at the Jesuit
Community at Norwood (S.A.). M.A. from
Melbourne University, he returned there as
Dean of Newman University College before
shifting to Adelaide as lecturer in philosophy.
He was a Fellow of the Royal Geographic
Society of London.
In Brisbane, at 76, J. F. Donovan, one-time
fingerprint expert in the C. 1.8., later Brisbane
hotel-keeper and Queensland M.L.C. He
landed from Ireland in 1900, represented
Queensland in rowing, cycling and field-games,
was president of the Queensland Irish Associa-
tion, and had been a Tatt’s and Hibernian
Society committeeman.
In Melbourne, at 60, former Inspector
Bernard Vincent Herbert, one of the doughtiest
members the Victorian police force ever had.
He earned the Valor Badge by knocking out
a gunman to save a woman from being mur-
dered, was leader of the Herbert-MoSatt-Hall
ruck combination which gave Richmond its
first football premiership, originated the slogan
“Eat ’em alive, Tigers” (still used to urge
Richmond on), and was one of the combination
which ousted the “Hungry 72” and other
pushes from Brunswick and Footscray, fighting
them with lengths of loaded hose and bare
fists.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
252 George-street,
Sydney.
“Kelvin”; As a globe-trotting rival for
Churchill’s pen (B. 7/12/’49) I nominate,
in the security of anonymity, a pair of
feminine “sine qua nons” which, though
not encasing their rightful owner at the
time, saw service with the 6th Divvy in
England, Syria, Libya, New Guinea and
Borneo. The peregrinating pants began
their travels in 1940, being pinched from
the matron of a country hospital in re-
sentment at her terminating for discip-
linary reasons a rather hilarious party
being tendered the group by her nursing
staff. It was intended that the garment,
souvenired from a clothesline by the re-
luctantly departing guests, would be auto-
graphed and returned by post to the bereft
matron, but the mob never remustered
in entirety till after the war. By that time
the pants were sadly tattered. Perhaps
their finest hour was when they flew, as a
“ Stop — you’ll ruin my good sheet!”
never-lowered standard, outside a tent at
Milne Bay from the earliest and woman-
less days of that outpost until the day in
late 1942 when a transport disembarked
for a few hours some of its complement
of nurses and V.A.Ds. en route for
Moresby. The garment was then lowered
and stowed away for eventual autograph-
ing by the complete band of original
miscreants. Returned to their rightful
owner, they are now rated among her
most treasured possessions.
* * * *
“King’s Arc”: Smartest piece of heck-
ling I struck during the election campaign
came when a candidate, giving details of
his service in two wars, added that just
before the Hitler flare-up he had helped
to prepare a tentative plan for mobilisa-
tion. Called the interjector: “Was it you
who thought up the two cut lunches?”
*** * *
Jewel” ; My optician is not as loud as
some of his confreres in denouncing sun-
glasses. He maintains that in blazing
sunlight they serve their purpose; the
danger begins when they are worn in the
shade. He sternly reprimanded a young
friend whom he found wearing sunglasses
in a city lounge. She listened to his argu-
ments, then smiled sweetly: “But I like
to wear them because no one can see
my eyes or where I am looking. You
can stare all you wish at people and
they don’t know it.”
* * * Me
“Bo”; Polychromatic cellophane paper
undoubtedly lends glamor to the Christ-
mas present, especially where it suitably
disguises the gift and is wrapped with
artistry. But all the same I think it can
be overdone. Some shops seem to take
a special delight in encasing in these
gaudy trappings the most prosaic of items.
1 have seen a nest of spanners, a toilet-
seat, a garbage-tin, a yard-broom and an
iron boot-last which gave the impression
of mendicants in ermine ; next to a car-
tyre decked out in the stuff the most
incongruous example was a drainpipe
in a hardware store resplendent in the
glazed paper, I noted, too, a fully-
assembled lawnmower, one-manpower
model, whose cellophane wrapping was
further embellished by a huge lover’s-
knot bow of the same material on the
handle; whether its temporary overcoat
would appeal most to the old man, who
was fated to get corns on his chest through
pushing it through the years, or Mum
when one of the kids propelled it around
indoors before it was skinned and it
sprayed chewed-up cellophane over the
carpet, is anybody’s guess.
* * * Mi
“Jasby”: Curled up on an automatic
weighing-machine on a busy* George-
street footpath was a beautiful blue
Persian cat. The Christmas shopping
crowd passed it by with scarcely a glance.
all except the illuminated citizen who
staggered out of a wine-bar a few doors
away. When his erratic progress brought
him up to the machine he steadied him-
self by it, swaying slightly, then looked
down and spotted the cat. “Poor pussy,”
he said ; and, bending gingerly, he stroked
it. The - pride of Tehran opened its
eyes and purred. The drunk straightened
up again, and holding the machine with
his left hand, fumbled in his pocket with
his right. A few moments later he thrust
a penny into the slot, focussed his bleary
eyes on the dial and announced, “Three
pounds, five ounces, pussy,” and passed
on his unsteady way,
* * * *
“A.P.0.”: Highlights of my day at
the polling-booth: The voter who took
his ballot-paper, stared at it for a few
“She's for display purposes only”
moments, then asked “Is .this a Labor
vote?” (I told him it depended on what
he put on it.) The young fellow, ob-
viously voting for the first time, who,
after marking his paper, complained that
there was no place in which to put his
name and number. Told that this was
not necessary, he asked “But how will
they know who I voted for?” The in-
ebriated gentleman who had trouble with
his Senate paper. After a struggle with
the pencil he came back to the table to
ask “How many are on this thing?” I
told him 23. “Hell,” he said, “I’m up to
thirty-eight and I haven’t finished yet.”
Finished or not, he decided to call it a
day and into the ballot-box went his
paper.
* * * *
“Macnell”: Old sailors will see more
than coincidence in the way British war-
ships apparently resent the prescribed
manner of their death. Battleship
Neptune, when being towed to death past
Nelson’s Victory, broke loose, turned, and
buried her armored stem vengefully in
her luckier Fleet-mate’s vitals. Old War-
spite, veteran of a hundred actions and
one of the finest gunnery-ships the Royal
Navy ever sailed, heaved her bulk broad-
side-on to heavy seas, accepted their
sympathetic leverage, snapped her s|in.
towline like cotton and defiantly stuck
herself on Cornwall. What’s left of her
is still there. Now cruiser Ajax, once
condemned to sale to the coast-clawing
Chilean Navy, after chasing Graf Spee
towards an ignominious end under the
Plate, then shifting to the Mediterranean
and sinking two of three Italian destroyers
s.-e. of Sicily and unhesitatingly opening
fire shortly after on a heavy cruiser and
four destroyers (she was, as well, able-
seaman Brown’s rescue-ship in the cellu-
loid version of Brown on Resolution), has
likewise had a say in her intended execu-
tion in the knacker’s yard. Turning from
Bristol Channel to shape up into the
mouth of the Usk, her starb’d screws
dragged her over .to a buoy, twisted its
cable round them in gripping bands of
steel and allowed a friendly wind to
ground her, bilges-bare, on a mudbank.
These old ships die like they fight—hard.
* * * *
An old codger looks back :
Next year—on January 31 —The Bulletin
will complete its 70th year. When it made its
debut in 1880, at 107 Castlereagh-street, Sydney,
Queen Victoria had passed 60 and had been on
the throne for over 42 years; Disraeli was
near the end of his second and last term as
Prime Minister of England. With the deposi-
tion of Napoleon 111, France’s Second Empire
had toppled ten years earlier, and, in 1880,
Jules Grevy was the republic’s President.
Rutherford Hayes was President of the U.S.A.;
William I, Emperor of Germany; Nicholas I,
Tsar of Russia; and Pope Leo XIII was at
the Vatican. Lord Loftus was Governor of
N. S. Wales, and Henry Parkes, whom The
Bulletin attacked in its first issue, was for the
third time Premier of the colony. The popula-
tion of the six Australian colonies was about
two and a quarter million, and that of Sydney
round about the quarter million. Sydney was
lit with gas, but had neither electric light nor
telephones. It was not yet connected by rail
with Melbourne, and steam-trams had just
superseded the old horse-trams in the city’s
streets. Henry Kendall and Marcus Clarke
were still alive, and The Bulletin’s chief rivals
In the field of weekly journalism “ Sydney
were the “Sydney Mail,” “Town and Country
Journal,” “Illustrated Sydney News and
“Sydney Punch”—all long dead. Scott and
Rogan, the Wantabadgery bushrangers, were
hanged at Darlinghurst jail (Sydney), J P™r
to The Bulletin’s first appearance, and the
Kelly gang were in hiding. You could buy a
ton of coal for a sovereign, a suit for thirty-five
bob, or a sewing-machine for a tew quia.
And Roberts’ Hotel, at the corner.of George-
and Market-streets, was offering a case con-
taining 6 quarts gin, 2 quarts brandy, o quarts
rum and one quart each of whisky, port and
sherry—all for three quid.
* * ♦ *
“Fairfield”; In compiling the history
of his home town a Fairfield (N.S.W.)
amateur historian records, with a sur-
prised exclamation-mark, that when
bushrangers stuck up Orchardleigh—a
local homestead which is still standing—
they arrived singing an air from one of
the operas. While not commenting on
their lack of caution I wouldn’t challenge
the rest of the statement. Many a low-
brow loves highbrow music. The most
fervent music-lover I’ve ever talked with
was a crim. doing a stretch in Parramatta
Jail, Whistle a couple of bars of any
classical piece and he would immediately
identify the fragment, state its source,
name its composer and often give a few
other interesting details. He knew every
ballad or popular song way back to the
vintage of “Wait Till the Clouds Roll
By, Jenny” ; but “real” music was his
true love, and he could not bring himself
to forgive Richard Tauber for wasting
his talent on “Tin Pan Alley rubbish.”
What was he doing in jail? Eighteen
months for pinching wireless-sets,
* * * *
“Hyanlo”; Medicine was not the only
profession women found difficult to enter
—for years those who tried to gate-crash
Sydney Law School fared no better. John
Peden, Dean of the Law School from
1910 until half-way through Hitler’s war,
was a most tolerant man in most things,
but he never failed to let women know
that he considered his Faculty no place
for females. When I started at the Law
School in a class of about 60 men and
one girl Peden took the first lecture and
read the roll —“Mr. Andrews, Mr.
Baker,” and so on down the list until he
came to the lone frail whose name he
also prefaced with “Mister.” Thinking
the old boy had made a mistake she
piped up with “Miss Mack, Sir John.”
Peden looked over his glasses, “There
are no women in the Law School, Mister
Mack,” and continued with the roll-call.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Santa Felton will give Mel-
bourne National Gallery’s Christmas-
stocking its biggest filling for a long time.
The gifts include a “St. George and the
Dragon,” by Domenico di Bartolo, of the
15th-century Siennese school, whose
forms were as quaint as those of any
modem; “Auteuil Racecourse,” by
Brianchon, a young French painter; 21
Diirer engravings and a valuable collec-
tion of mezzotints and etchings from die
famous Liber Studiorum of Turner.
Under consideration are a landscape of
Hobbema and “Portrait of a Man,” by
El Greco. A good work by the Spanish
master who was Titian’s pupil would fill
an obvious gap in the gallery of Old
Masters. Fifty years ago the finest El
Greco could have been bought for a tenth
of the price it would fetch today. The
quality of his painting hasn’t altered, but
a Felton buyer would no more have
thought of buying one of his pictures in
those days than he would now of buying
one of Orpen’s.
THE OLD FAMILIAR FACES.
“Four Federal Ministers lost their seats: Mr.
Dedman (Defence), Mr. Scully (Vice-President of
the Executive Council), Mr. Barnard (.Repatriation),
Mr. Lemmon (Works).’'
We have been laughing, we have been carousing,
Drinking late, sitting late, with our bosom
cronies—
Four, four are gone, four old familiar faces.
We had a Defender, dreadful as a Dedman,
Now he’s been beaten by a battler on a bicycle;
Four, four are gone, four old familiar faces.
One was a gag-man, good with a guillotine;
Scissored now thine own skull, what skills it,
Scully?
Four, four are gone, four old familiar faces.
Back to his Apple Isle the bounteous Barnard,
Patriot-repatriator, has been repatriated;
Four, four are gone, four old familiar faces.
And in the pints of cold water they poured
on the
Schemer of Snowy are slices of Lemmon;
Four, four are gone, four old familiar faces.
Ghostlike we paced round the haunts of Can-
berra;
Earth seemed a desert we were bound to
traverse,
Seeking to miss some more familiar faces.
But Chifley was there, or perhaps it was
Abraham Lincoln;
Evatt mourned with him; the tears on their
whiskers fell thickly;
“Four, four are gone, four old familiar faces.”
RONALD McCUAIG.


“Harold Hardupp”: Whenever a body
of people get together on an open truck
a spirit of imbecile childishness seems
to seize them. In my V.D.C. days, as
soon as we climbed aboard the trucks
provided to take us on military exercises
we shed all the professional and civil
dignity we had known, whistled at girls,
threw amiable derision at male pedes-
trians, burst into songs, and, generally,
indulged in noisy riot. At the place
where I toil men transported by trucks
from one part of the works to another
show the same spirit; they hurl humorous
insults and more substantial missiles into
the plants they pass and fill the air with
noise. Open trucks carrying loads of
picnickers are always noisy, and when a
crowd of usually well-behaved surf-club
lads have the job of conveying their surf-
boards to another beach their course is a
disturbing commotion to the suburbs
through which they pass. Why a ride on
an open truck should have this effect on
the spirit I don’t know; but there it is.
* * * *
“Eureka”: During a radio sporting
quiz sponsored by Sydney “Daily Tele-
graph” a competitor failed on one of the
questions, which brought from the
compere the remark: “You would have
known that answer if you had read your
‘Telegraph.’ ” The reply must have made
him swallow his Adam’s apple: “I get
the ‘Herald.’ ”
* * * *
“Kageel”: At least one New Australian
has profited by the housing shortage.
His luck began when he won the ballot
for a house auctioned a week after his
arrival. The keen bidding gave him an
idea. He runs a store in an expanding
suburb and now attends all the auctions
for houses in his area, joins briskly in the
early bidding, but falls out in plenty of
time. What new owner, flushed with
recent victory, can resist this sort of over-
ture : “Well* you pushed the bidding too
far for me, and I wanted that house.
Now, I happen to have a store where
you’ll be living. Could I call for your
orders?”
* * * ♦
“B. A. Ker”: In disputing my quota-
tion “There is little change in the build-
ing trade,” “Pongo” (B. 23/11/’49) asks
when I last saw “a bricklayer with a
bolster, cutting bricks for a circular wall
opening.” Of course a chap can’t see
himself, which makes it awkward, because
I did one of those jobs myself last month.
There was a Tudor arch in the job, too —
and they could hardly be called a modern
idea. Those hoddies who were expected
to keep four fast brickies going are non-
existent today—just as they were in
“Pongo’s” day. Two brickies, one hoddy
was always the accepted rule for cottage-
work in the days when the laborer built
scaffolds, knocked up mortar and carried.
An exceptionally good man could keep
three fast trowels flashing, but he gener-
ally worked in shares with the boss
brickie, who took the job at so much a
thousand. And I have seen plumbers
“wiping” joints. It’s true that carpenters
on our jobs do not use “the 6ft. straight-
edge” when levelling joists—they are
more particular; they insist on a 12ft.
one, just as my grandfather did. It is
true that some shocking work is done
today; but the rogues about now are
mere novices compared to some who “got
away” with things when jerry-builders
got less publicity, and local-government
building inspectors were also health
officers, collectors of rates and pound-
keepers. And I’ll warrant that when
“Pongo” was a short-panted apprentice
some old fellow wandered on to the job,
shook his head, then droned a dirge very
little different from “P.’s” recent effort.
As Kipling said: “There is little change
in the building trade.”
* * * *
“Nunk”: Lengthened skirts have not
eased the shortage of dressmakers, and
women who are unable, or cleverly feign
“And on your day of you can Wear my mink coat.”
inability, to make their own clothes are
being forced farther and farther afield to
find friends who are good with needles
and haven’t yet been put upon. One such
poor weak woman —and I refer to my
wife —has rediscovered some 40 miles
away a very dear friend who cuts and
sews like an angel. Tram, train and bus
separate them, but she visits the friend’s
place on Sunday to be measured and take
up the material, and on the Tuesday they
meet in town, have coffee, and twitter
at the counters of a big department store.
Then they adjourn to the women’s rest-
room of the store, out come the new
frocks, cut and tacked together, and the
fitting takes place. Then back go the
frocks to the friend’s place to be
machined and finished, and arrive by post
the following week ready-to-wear except
for the buttonholes.
"What’s another Word for ‘festive,’ Eleanor?”
“W.E.F.”: The arrival of a Christmas-
card from that ardent barracker for the
Australian writer J. K. Moir, of the Mel-
bourne Bread and Cheese Club, is always
a happy event for the collector of Aus-
traliana. Moir’s seasonal greeting this
year is an attractively printed buff-
colored card featuring a quotation from
“A Christmas Hymn,” by Joseph Fufphy
(“Tom Collins”), author of Such Is Life —
the hymn which begins “A wiser world
grows sick of strife” —and a photograph
of the house situated at 9 Servetus-street,
Swanbourne (W.A.), built by Furphy and
in which he lived until his death on
September 13, 1912. Furphy’s sons,
Felix and Samuel, wfio had been trained
in their uncle John’s foundry at Shep-
parton (Vic.), went to Westralia and
established a foundry at Fremantle. The
parents joined them early in 1905. Early
in 1949 Samuel Furphy presented this
house —a pleasant-looking weatherboard
cottage —to the W.A. section of the
Fellowship of Australian Writers, who
are maintaining the cottage as a literary
memorial in which suitable “Tom
Collins” relics and other Australiana will
be housed,
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: None of the candidates
in the Federal elections showed the enter-
prise displayed by an aspirant for muni-
cipal honors in a Victorian provincial
centre. A shoesmith by trade, he adver-
tised that every citizen who cast a vote
in his favor would get half a crown off
the next pair - of footwear bought. A
reminder that this wasn’t done even in
the wildest parts of the backblocks
brought a hasty withdrawal of the offer.
* * * *
“Dentonio”: At a recent sale of auto-
graphs in London monickers of Stalin
and Abraham Lincoln each brought a
modest £27. Probably Churchills,
Roosevelt’s, or those of any of the big
figures in World War I would bring no
more. It is not the fame of a person
that makes his autograph valuable so
much as its rarity. One of the most
highly-priced autographs is that of a man
who would be unknown to fame but for
participation in one of the world’s most
notable events —the Declaration of
American Independence. The signature
of this man, Button Gwinnett, occupies
second place amongst the 55 of the
declaration. Gwinnett was an Englishman
who, after starting in business in Wolver-
hampton, settled as a shopkeeper in
Savannah. He was chosen as one of
Georgia’s three delegates to the first
congress. In 1777 he was killed in a
duel. Only 36 signatures of his are known
to exist, nearly all of them in complete
sets of Declaration autographs. As
American autograph-collectors are very
keen to get complete sets, the price of a
Gwinnett signature had risen by the mid-
-1930’s to £10,200. When at Wolver-
hampton Gwinnett was a subscriber to
the local Bluecoat school. Some years
ago a search of the minutes of the school
subscribers revealed three Gwinnett sig-
natures. They were sold for a sum that
provided a handsome addition to the
school’s endowment.
* * * *
“Hamer”: It was the bashful male who
caused the most trouble during the long
controversy when women were knocking
at the door of the Medical School of the
Sydney Uni. (B. 7/12/’49). The threat
that lectures would be boycotted if women
were admitted, because the young men
would feel embarrassed by their presence,
was actually carried out by many
students, and the danger of a shortage of
doctors resulting if the “immodest in-
clusion of female students was persisted
in” was gravely pointed out. A solicitor
of my acquaintance switched from
medicine to law rather than pursue
medical studies with young females at
his elbow.
* * * <=
“C. 8.”: The passion for learning
isn’t confined to China. A small
friend of mine, much amused, told me
that a grey-haired man of at least 55 sat
next to him with his tongue out and
dripping beads of perspiration at the
intermediate examinations in Melbourne.
* * * *
“Brolga”: While watching city-reared
Mrs. B. jiggling the pressure-cooker I’ve
often tried to explain to her the usefulness
of the main utensil of my outback days—
the camp-oven. If nothing else, I have
managed to make my own mouth water
with my descriptions of juicy roasts,
feather-light dampers and brownies and
succulent stews that good green gidyea
coals and a camp-overt can produce. This
Christmas the memories of the flies, ants
and dust of bush and Army camps being
dimmed by time, and having managed to
save 19? gallons of petrol from the un-
rationed period I plan to introduce Mrs.
B. to the joys of camping. I’ve collected
all the gear on my list except the
No. 1 item —a camp-oven. A round of
Sydney’s stores was a blank, so I rang the
manufacturers. “Sorry,” they said. “We
haven’t made any camp-ovens since
before the war.” “Isn’t there still a
demand for them from the outback?”
I asked. “Oh, yes, there’s still a demand
for them, but we’ve had to cut out some
lines these days, and that’s one of them.”
Just another reason why I’m glad I chose
Sydney, not the bush, for my post-war
life.
* * ♦ ♦
“Jab”: The ransacking of a North
Melbourne factory in an attempt to steal
a secret formula for mock-cream is no
surprise to those of us who are in touch
with the secret underworld of inter-
national affairs. For a long time we
have known that the Soviet, stung by the
disclosures that the Russian standard of
living is lower than that of Australians
on sustenance during the depression, has
been making an all-out bid to raise the
Russian standard. Thoughtful Russians
realised, of course, that the Australian
susso-level was too ambitious a standard
to achieve all at once, but the Politbureau
set the reasonable target of lifting
standards within five years to approxi-
mately the level of an Arnhem Land
abo. in drought-time. A secret confer-
ence in the Gobi Desert attended by
Communist delegates from all over the
world laid down vast plans for espionage
and infiltration into Western food-
processing plants. Since then events
have followed a familiar pattern. Speci-
mens of the worms bred for the best
gorgonzola have been stolen from stud-
farms and shipped to Russia in diplo-
matic baggage. The N.K.V.D. has
repeatedly tried to obtain data on the
secret processing of raspberry vinegar.
The formula for Irish stew also has high
priority. From Eire come reports of
mysterious-looking foreigners who have
been caught in Irish cafes scraping
samples of Irish stew from their plates
into phials. In time the Soviet with its
vast resources and teeming manpower is
certain to solve most of the technical
difficulties of these processes, but one
food secret persistently eludes the
Kremlin. Its ingredients have beep
analysed over and over again, but Russia’s
finest scientific brains are still baffled. The
secret that defies even the great Lysenko
himself is the formula for the haggis.
THE YULETIDE SPIRIT.
“Some children’s Christmas stockings being sold
in Sydney contain crime magazines showing stories
of murders, bashings and shootings.”
When, betimes, on Christmas morning,
Little Johnny sees, adorning
His small bed, a stocking, gay and bulging-fat,
You’d expect to hear him squealing
With delight, the while he’s feeling
In its innards for a little ball or bat.
But, if in his room you’re peeping
You will note the horror creeping
O’er his face, his eyes stuck out like organ-
stops,
As he scans a strip-pulp showing
Thugs, with triumph all a-glowing.
While around them lie a batch of butchered
cops.
For the horror-stuff purveyors
With their bullet-headed slayers,
Their murder, mayhem, thuggery and blood,
Must be let—and no heartburnings—
Rake off very princely earnings
In the Christmas-stocking market, which they
flood.
After all, it stands to reason —
So significant the season
And considering the Day we celebrate —
What is better calculated
To have strongly inculcated
In the children love of peace and lack of hate?
Don’t debase the mind of Stella
With the tale of Cinderella
Or young Richard with the Beanstalk story
now,
For this Christmas Day the nippers
Will be fed on Jack the Ripper’s
Strip adventure, or one like it, anyhow.
Gangster stuff has turned the tables
On those pale and vapid fables
Sleeping Beauty, Mother Goose — they’re
classed as “nuts,”
Horror-merchants have decided
Christmas Day will be divided
By the kids between plum-duff and blood
’n’ guts!
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Bo”: Cavanagh had for some time
been following with puzzled look the
rather unusual movements of Ramsay,
who owned the block next to him. Twenty
minutes ago Ramsay had issued from his
mdnage hojding a tape-measure, and had
proceeded to obtain the girth of certain
tiees he had selected in the big stand of
ironbarks down towards the creek that
ran through his property. After much
calculation he had nicked a distinguishing
mark with his axe on one particular tree,
after which he went back to the house.
Shortly he emerged again holding a
parcel, went down to the tree he had
marked, unwrapped the parcel and pro-
ceeded to encircle the tree with the
contents of it. These activities were too
much for Cavanagh, who from the
distance couldn’t see clearly what all this
involved. “What the blazes is all this
gyvo about. Jack?” he sang out.
Ramsay looked across to his neighbor,
then, as he started to pull the cords into
a tight knot, he yelled back: “It’s the
missus’s new corsets —she wants t’ wear
’em t’ that Chris’mas concert they’re
havin’ in the School of Arts tonight, an’
I’m breakin’ ’em in!”
* * * *
“Jason” (New Hebrides): Even in the
darkest days of meat-rationing Europeans
have never given pigs the exalted status
they enjoy in primitive communities here.
Among pagan tribes the pig-cult is the
basis of economy and power. Pigs are
legal tender among these people, and a
man’s wealth may be assessed variously
by the number, size and the length of the
tusks of the pigs he possesses. Pigs often
occupy the cosiest places near his fireside.
With them he can buy anything from a
canoe to a wife. Long tusks are culti-
vated by removing the eye-teeth from
the pig’s upper jaw, thus permitting the
tusks to continue their cyclic outward
growth from the lower jaw unobstructed
until, in some cases, they reach the magni-
ficence of two complete circles of some
Sin. diameter. On the island of Espiritu
Santo a most curious breed of her-
maphrodite pig of the greatest value has
been developed by primitive people over
the ages. Despite widespread opinion to
the contrary, it is difficult to believe that
Captain Cook would have had enough
spare pairs of these long-snouted, razor-
backed porkers to settle them in all the
island groups he visited, and it would be
interesting to learn what proof exists that
, island pigs are not of earlier origin. Hav-
'■ ing twice been treed by wild tuskers, I
have a personal grudge which I shouldn’t
like to hold against the great navigator.
* * * *
“Anon”: Gazer Pike and his lad had
been rabbiting out from Bogan Gate
(N.S.W.), and when the skin-buyer on his
rounds had called at their camp the
usual prolonged haggling followed
before a price was agreed upon.
Although doubting the buyer’s ability
to calculate correctly even after the
skin man had produced a ready-
reckoner, old Gazer accepted the cash.
As the buyer departed down the track in
a cloud of dust Young Pike said thought-
fully, “What I can’t make out, Dad, is
how did the bloke what writ that book
know how many rabbits we was going
to catch?”
* ♦ * ♦
“Hanko”: The bush kids were playing
at Red Indians in the tussocky river-
bend. The game was to advance upon
one another over a specified strip, and
the first to be struck was one dead Injun.
Crawling warily through the tussocks a
paleface espied the buttocks of Sitting
Bull, who was circling to take him on a
flank. Paleface launched a blunted arrow,
and, as it struck, the brave gave a yell that
set the riverside cliffs echoing and sent a
blue heron flapping frantically from a
dead tree. Good acting. Paleface
reckoned, and he went across to take his
scalp. Sitting Bull was writhing on the
ground and clawing at a rusted rabbit-
trap that was fastened to his fingers; a
trap so long buried that a bunny could
have danced with impunity upon the plate
of it. Paleface strutted away and left him
to it. The silly cow was crying!
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: I didn’t take the short-
cut through the paddock—the memory
of a photo-finish with Johnson’s bull was
still vivid. The Jersey ? s temper hadn’t
improved in the meantime; he followed
me around the fence hurling bovine abuse
and challenges to come inside. An hour
later, having balanced the world’s politics,
deposed the local council and set things
to rights in general, old Johnno and I
were yarning our way to the front gate
when the old chap stopped suddenly,
gaped, then whistled madly for the cattle-
dog. Even as Bluey came bounding off
the veranda we knew he couldn’t get
down the paddock in time; two girl
hikers were taking the short-cut —and the
bull was lumbering towards them. The
tall girl glanced over her shoulder and
immediately bolted madly for the fence,
but the small, nuggety one seemed
paralysed. A few yards away from her
the Jersey stopped, lowered his head and
pawed. IJorrified, we saw the girl de-
liberately walk towards him. A pace away
she stood apd stretched out her hand.
Too far away to see clearly, we could still
make out that she was either scratching
the broad forehead or patting it! Then
she turned and walked casually towards
the fence. Before slipping through the
rails the lass turned again and repeated
the patting business as the menacing
animal followed. “Well, I’ll go hopping
to hell!” gasped lohnno. “Only yester-
day he would’ve put me over the fence if
Bluey hadn’t rushed up and heeled him.”
A few minutes later the girls came up to
the house. “Would you give us a drink?”
asked the nuggety one. “My friend had a
bit of a scare down the soad —she thought
an old cow was a bull! ”
* * * *
“Flinders Range”: Blackboy-yaccas
grow somewhere about the 2000 ft. line
in S.A.’s northern Flinders Range. But
to get the gum it isn’t necessary to p.ut
a firestick to them (B. 16/11 /’49) as they
do in such frigid regions as Bass Strait,
At the end of a good season, if you
struggle up through the black-oak and
dwarf-mallee, you can find hatfuls of
little black balls, from marble to golf-
ball size, in the rock crevices at the feet
of the grass-trees. Melted and mixed with
dry, ground-up sheep manure, the gum
makes a tough cement, handy for patch-
ing anything from a leaky water-tank to
a cracked car-battery top. If a dash of
methylated-spirits is added to the melting
gum the melting-point of the stuff is
“The annoying part is that it Was Jones's turn to Wash-up."
lowered and it becomes a useful pitch,
handy for any job that isn’t exposed to
excessive heat. Brother Boong used such
gum, melted with kangaroo dung, to fix
stone cutting-tools to their wooden
handles.
* * * *
“En B.”: Australian spiders may
“travel relatively short distances” by
parachute, although I suspect “Rooster”
(B. 16/11/ ’49) of generalising, but they
seem to have a Cook’s Tour system of
mass-migration. In a good year in
northern S.A., round about October, you
may travel for a hundred miles on an
arachnid moving-day and still meet the
übiquitous gossamer drifting down-wind.
On such an occasion literally millions of
spiderlings must take off in search of
happy hunting-grounds. But what I’d
like to know is: Who beats the big start-
ing-gong over scores of miles of clay-
flats, acacia - swamps, tobacco - bush,
watercourses and bluebush ridges?
* * * *
“Tarbush”; “Bughouse” (B.
23 /11 / ’49) is to be congratulated on his
choice of pen-name if he really believes
that soil dates from the hypothetical ap-
pearance of termites in the Jurassic
period. During three great periods—
Carboniferous, Permian and Triassic —an
extensive land flora had already evolved.
A plant is not necessarily dependent on
soil, but the bulk of that great mass of
swamp greenery must have been firmly
anchored in good black earth before the
great dinosaurs took over —aeons before
the appearance of the insignificant insect-
stalking ancestors of elephants, monkeys
and men. And I doubt if the absence of
termites was any more responsible for
the great coal deposits than their presence
is responsible for modem peat swamps.
The presence of factors inhibiting bac-
terial and fungoid action seems to be a
requisite for the fossilisation that gives
us coal —the union permitting.
* * * *
■ “Nor’-west”: Both the ostrich of South
Africa and the rhea of S. America have
the same trick as the emu in the male bird
taking over the job of incubation and the
rearing of the young. Darwin suggests
the reason lies in the long period involved
in the female bird laying her eggs. With
the rhea one egg in three days is the rule,
which with a nest of 18 eggs, an average
sitting, would occupy in laying 54 days.
More, since birds of this family merely
scratch a shallow hole in the earth, leaving
the eggs without shelter from the hot sun,
long before the final egg was laid the
first of the sitting would be rotten. Thus
hens of the ostrich family favor a com
munity nest so that the full sitting is oui
up quickly. Then, as they continue ia>-
ing and would keep on cumbering up m
nest, to the detriment of the original sit-
ting, the male takes on the job. Ane
ostrich has practically the same habit as
the rhea and the emu, sitting 9 n , tbe e SS s -
Back in the days when ostrich-farming
was a business feathers from the male
bird during the nesting-period wer®
valueless, being lousy and dirty. rue
rearing of the chicks by the male follows
naturally as a measure of protection, the
male of the emu tribe being larger and
fiercer. Incidentally, the original name
for the whole three families was emu,
derived from the Portuguese, the earliest
of world-travellers.
* * * *
“Ware”: Inbreeding (B. 16/11/’49) is
not in itself harmful to either birds or
mammals. In fact, as long as the original
parents are genetically sound, it is an
excellent thing. But if the ancestors
harbor some latent weakness on both
sides, the offspring stand a chance of
inheriting a double dose, with disastrous
results. However, there is such a thing as
hybrid vigor, and one might reasonably
expect that a shipload of English sparrows
released here would elevate the “virility
and general all-round toughness” of the
Australian spadger to super-spag pro-
portions. On the other hand, such an
importation, by introducing a heritable
weakness, might conceivably result in the
ultimate extinction of the Australian
spaggie. But that is too much to hope for.
* * * *
“Kelms”: The fall of a tree (B.
23/11/’49)? If there’s any appreciable
slope to the ground the tree will fall
downhill —a fact which has caused many
an “expert” axeman to lose faith in
correspondence courses.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Patchy and Frosty, hard-
doers by nature and bush carpenters by
profession, drifted into Cowangie (Mallee)
one evening and were promptly pounced
upon by Everett, the carrier, who wanted
a lean-to built in the wheatyards to
shelter his truck-drivers when they
stopped for meals. Terms were tenta-
tively arranged, and P, and F. inspected
the site by moonlight, estimated their
needs in timber and decided to camp on
the spot. Next morning Everett had a
truck there loaded with timber, and the
builders got to work. About 11 a.m.
Patchy put down his adze, glanced at
the sun, caught Frosty’s eye, nodded, and
they set forth for the township. About
10 minutes after they got there Everett
sighted them. “Hey,” they roared, “what
sort of a joint’s this? No pub!” Everett
seemed amused. “Didn’t y’ know there
wasA’t a pub?” he asked. “We ruddy
well did not,” they roared. “We never
work where there ain’t a pub. Places
that haven’t pubs are only fit t’ loaf in
until a man can get out of ’em. That’s
where we’re goin’ now. Out of it.” But
Everett wanted that lean-to built, and he
got over it by sending a truck up to
Murrayyille for a supply of bottled stuff.
BELLS IN THE BUSH.
Now that the lorries hour by hour
Race through the land on petrol power,
Now that the wool-teams lurch no longer
O’er dusty sandhill and blacksoil plain,
Now that the call of the car is stronger
Than call of saddle and spur and rein,
Is there still the music we loved so well
Of clinking hobble and tinkling bell,
The music that told of a tired hack feeding
Close to the campfire under the stars,
Or told of a team, with some old rogue leading
Trailing away through the dim belars?
Out in the Bush ’neath the evening sky
Surely the echoes will never die
Of the horse-bells ringing their rhythmic changes
Round the droving camps in the river bends,
Of the bullock-bells on the distant ranges
Booming “Good-night” when the dusk
descends!
SCOTLAND.
WILL H. OGILVIE.


“Zake”: Hodgens, who accounted him-
self a tragic victim of insomnia if his
hours of deep repose, whether in bed or
out of it, fell to less than 12 per day,
was sitting propped in his favorite atti-
tude against a piece of rusting farm
machinery with his hat over his eyes,
cogitating on the cruelties of life which
compelled a man occasionally to work,
when from the house there issued sounds
which he slowly distinguished as feminine
shrieks. A minute or so later Mrs.
Hodgens stood puffing before him, a
number of the Hodgens tribe gathered
about her skirts and one in particular
held by her hand. Resigning himself to
having his soporific leisure disturbed by
the din, Hodgens wearily opened one eye
and took in Freddie, his third-youngest,
standing there with a tin clamped firmly
over his head. The issue was between
urgent feminine importunings and mascu-
line reluctance, and as the triumph of
woman was apparent as he slowly got to
his feet Hodgens voiced the protest of
outraged restfulness. “ ’Struth! ” he
said. “What’s the hurry, anyway —
couldn’t y’ leave him out in the rain an’
let it rust off?”
* * * *
“Sackville St.”: Puss is a crafty, saga-
cious hunter, whether she is stalking a
mouse in a back alley or killing a snake
in the bush, yet the feline sometimes
makes incredibly ridiculous mistakes. I
once walked into our rural laundry just
as the cat (a snake-killer) began to sidle
towards the tubs, back arched, fur brist-
ling. When I came dashing back with
the axe she had worked closer to the
copper and was moving in, caution in
every step. There was no snake in sight,
but a black floorcloth seemed to be
obstructing her line of vision. Cautiously
I removed it. Instantly Tiddles dropped
“Mind your beer, gents, I'm coming through .”
her fighting face and called the whole
thing off —she must have mistaken the
limp rag for a coiled black snake. Last
night a friend just back from New
Guinea called in to show me a small,
stuffed crocodile. About 3ft. 6in. long,
and a fair example of the taxidermist’s
craft, it was posed on the floor-rug when
the current cat languidly walked into the
room. Suddenly Tabby sprang to atten-
tion, shocked to her whisker-ends. For
a minute she stood staring, obviously
scared stiff; then she decided to make a
fight of it. Her approach was as cautious
as a politician’s reply as, teeth showing
and back bent like a horseshoe, she
manoeuvred to attack from behind. She
seemed to be preparing for the jump when
the croc.’s owner touched her lightly on
the back with a newspaper. Never have
I seen anything funnier than that feline’s
leap. But she landed, spitting fury, ready
to die fighting. At that moment the dog
came in, passed the defunct saurian with-
out even a sniff, and flopped on the rug
beside it. I can think of but one answer:
Canines rely on scent; felines on sight.
* * * *
“Solitude”: Seventyfiver arrived back
from the township and banged a small
tin on the table. “There,” he said.
“Poison. F’r the rats in the shed.”
Through our evening feed he talked
nothing but rats, and as soon as he’d
finished grabbed the tin and retired to the
doorstep. “Y’ know how y’ poison
rabbits?” he rambled on. “Free feed ’em
a coupla times, then spread the apples
with strychnine? Well, it’s like that, only
with this y’ use bread.” He wandered to
the tucker tin and stopped with a scowl.
“Aw, cripes,” he growled, “we got no
bread. Sol, do y’ reckon they’d eat
damper?” “If it’s that last one you made,
no, I don’t.” “Aw, I was tryin’ out a
new way o’ doin’ ’em,” he growled
defensively, “an’ the fire went out.”
“Huh! Well, you can try them,” I sug-
gested. “They say rats ’ll eat anything.
Give ’em plenty.” He went off mumbling,
and I thought no more of his scheme till
next morning, when I entered the shed
and stepped over a dead rat with a lump
of damper still stuck in its jaws. By
the far wall Blue stood guard over another
corpse, while Seventyfiver gaped idly at
the beam overhead. “Whew!” I gasped.
“Ate the bait up there, and fell off, eh?”
Seventyfiver said nothing. “Pretty good
bait,” I congratulated him. “You want to
put out some more of that. You’ll soon
have ’em cleaned up.” Still no reply from
the old coot. “What brand did you say
it was?” I pursued. No use. The old
bloke had gone. It was some 10 minutes
later when I was getting my saddle that
I spotted his tin of poison, and woke up.
The seal on the tin was still unbroken.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: “Mug Gardener”
deserves his name if he believes that the
earthworm is entirely alien to “Westralian
native sand.” You won’t find them in
the dry areas, where the sand dries out
half an hour after the last rain ; and
they’re pretty scarce where the soil is so
poor it will only grow banksia. But
around the swamps and along the river-
flats they’re plentiful, being naturally
more abundant where the soil is manured
and cultivated. You wouldn’t find sandier
sand than in some stretches where en-
thusiastic fishermen dig on the banks of
the Swan for bait. I’ve often broken a
2ft. length off one that I’d say was a
native. Its other end seemed to know
the locality pretty well.
* * * *
“Barangkali”; The long reefs that run
between Banyuwangie (South Java) and
the island of Bali are the home of the
world’s largest reef-eels. Although tough
and unpalatable to the European, the
flesh is attractive enough when smoked
and dried and made into a curry. I have
seen many monsters brought ashore, but
one of the small ones I put the tape
over was just over 18ft. in length and
with a girth like an alderman. The
Javanese always fish for these great eels
at night, large flares on the bows of the
dukongs throwing a fitful glare over the
edge of the reef. The natives use not
hooks, but a foot-long piece of stout
bamboo bent over in a horseshoe shape,
and tied with rattan just strong enough
to keep it into place. The bait is tied
arouqd the bamboo and a length of wire
used as a trace, this being attached in
turn to a half-inch Manila rope. Usually
the bait is taken within 10 minutes, and
the patient fisherman allows the eel to
take the lot. Then a quick jerk is suflfi-
cient to release the bent bamboo. The
fight with a big eel lasts anything up to
"I think We can allow him up for half an hour now, nurse."
30 minutes, but the end is never in doubt.
At the surface he is speared in a dozen
places before being dragged aboard.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Gravelsnatcher”: Sand makes a fine
camping-ground (B. 23 /11 / ’49) because
in it a bed can be easily shaped, and it
does yield—not after the manner of a
feather-bed but embracingly as though
Mother Earth welcomes you and offers
you rest. And, if the position in which
you fall asleep proves irksome, you
awaken, wriggle your hips and shoulders
and the mattress is turned and pummelled.
Sand, particularly drift-sand, is clean, and
is free from the wogs that infest loams
and clays. I’ve camped innumerable
times in sand, and the only thing I’ve felt
creeping over me was lethargy. Sand is
cool in summer evenings and compara-
tively dry in winter, and usually it isn’t
too thickly-clothed to spare a space for
a tired man. Don’t know where life
originated, but sand is home to me, I
was born in jarrah country.
* ♦ * ♦
“Naturala”: The magpie has always
enjoyed a good Press, but latterly I have
been losing faith in the amiable nature of
the pied fellow. Watched one of the
buccaneers busy in a big Queensland box
much favored by native doves as a
nesting-place. Presently down plomped
three eggs; then down fluttered maggie,
to dine on albumen and yolk. More
recently I came on four magpies disput-
ing over the grounded carcass of a full-
fledged dove, the boss bully enjoying him-
self picking out choice morsels of the
breast meat. Examining the dove I found
it still warm —obviously it had been a
case of assassination. Maggie henceforth
in my book takes line with the hawks,
shrikes and kookas as a bird of prey.
* * * *
“J.J.A.”: The parrots were taking the
fruit, so we fixed up a kerosene-tin, with
a few bolts hanging in it, under the peach-
tree, with a string attached so that it
could be rattled from the kitchen. The
parrots came and settled on the tree, and
when the tin was rattled they dropped
from the tree, strutted around the tin,
then one perched on it. Having satisfied
their curiosity they resumed their fruit-
picking. In desperation the cocky’s wife
rushed out to hunt the birds away. As
she made a thrust with a stick at one bird
it turned around, moved up the branch
a little, then said politely, “Come on up
here, Missus, there’s plenty of room!”
♦ * * *
“Roo-fus”: As important as the hold-
ing-power of the Ewebank nail (B.
16/11/ was its square-cut “point,” the
edges of which punched through the wood
fibres instead of wedging them apart, as
the pointed wire-nail does, thus avoiding
splits when fixing small sizes or nailing
the ends of floorboards, etc. Modem
“dump points” are used when fixing
asbestos-cement sheets for the same
reason. Unfortunately the inventor of
the “spring-head” roofing-nail didn’t
realise the inherent weakness of his idea.
The friction of the nail-head against the
rise of iron when expanding causes the
nail to “draw” slightly, but as the iron
cools the “spring-head” contracts, ready
for a fresh grip and a further lift until the
nail is so loose in the timber that the push
of the iron against the nail-shaft itself
soon has a roof so fixed looking like a
mushroom crop. The modem version of
the “spring-head” has a rolled screw-
thread slightly larger in diameter than
the nail-shaft and “fast” enough to be
driven with a hammer, but since con-
trolled shortages became the Socialist
order even wire bullet-heads have been
as scarce as hen’s teeth, and spring-head
driving-screws like the legendary golden
apples.
* * * *
“Mac Fergus”: A recent arrival from
old Hingland, he took a job on this
Paroo run as a “cowboy,” although he
was well past the half-century peg. When
the killers were run in “Cock” picked out
a big wether and staggered the assembled
hands, all set ready to poke borak at him,
by placing a spreader about 30in. long
between the wether’s hocks. “He can’t
kick forward, he can’t get up, and he
can’t smother the fleece with blood,” said
Cock in explanation. When he had com-
pleted the job he said “Yes, I ’ad me own
little business in Poplar until the Jerries
bombed me aht.” After which there was
a heavy silence until he got his mutton
to the meathbuse, where he cut it up with
a deftness that left no words for criticism.
“Blime,” he said. “I’d like this country
only for the blinkin’ sandflies and the
mulga snakes, and the fact that a mans
got to go sixty blinkin’ miles to get a
’narf’narf!” \
* * * *
“C.A.”; Holidaying in the bush, Stan
was with the dogger the day the old
bloke found a litter of dingo pups in a
hollow log. Stan was very taken with
the youngsters. He selected a good-look-
ing pup, paid the old dogger its scalp
value and, when his holidays were over,
took the little tyke back with him to
town. There he undid the box and was
promptly greeted by a howl from his
missus. “Take it away,” she shrilled
at him. “I won’t have it round the place.”
“Now, wait on, Mary,” Stan broke in.
“It won’t hurt you. Why, it’s only a
pup.” “Yes, but it will grow up,” she
persisted. “It will kill all the fowls and
bite people, and we’ll always be in
trouble. People will complain to the
police.” “But we can shut it in the back-
yard,” Stan argued. “Yes, and I’ll be too
frightened to go out the back-door,” she
retorted, with growing indignation.
“There should be a law against keeping
them. You must get rid of it, I tell you,
and that’s final.’* “Awright,” Stan sighed
resignedly, “Awright. But just the same,
it wouldn’t’ve hurt anybody, that little
dingo pup.” “Dingo? Did you say
dingo?” His wife’s,ire subsided, and she
looked at the animal with interest. “Oh,
well, that’s all right, then, Stan,” she
relented. “I thought at first you had gone
and brought home one of those terrible
Alsatians!”
NEW NEIGHBORS.
Two blackbirds have just come to share the
season here with me—
I heard them both this morning in the leaty
loquat-tree.
I think they’re newly-married, or just engaged,
maybe.
She has a perfect figure, and looks exquisite
and trim —
A fashion-plate from “Vogue,” you’d think, up
there upon a limb;
And his black suit is faultless, too, and per-
■ fectly fits him.
They moved in first this morning as the saffron
left the sky,
And later introduced themselves as I was passing
By wlfistling a “Good-morning,” and I think
he winked his eye.
I know they’ll both be building soon, the way
they move about,
Surveying forks too high for cats, and working
such things out.
She wants the best position, too, of that there
is no doubt.
I hope the hawks don’t come along, their lives
and home to fleece,
And, from now on, the wife and I will act as
their police;
We want them both to stay on long, their
singing never cease.
They eye me, now, as if they’re pleased that
I’m a friendly coot —
And so I am, for it’s my hope that they have
taken root;
Although the cows will eat my grapes, I can’t
put in the boot.
VICTORIA.
HACKO.


Easing the Burden of
Property Problems
during your lifetime and after
--
AS the management of Estates and Invest-
ments becomes more difficult, there are
increasing advantages to be gained by appoint-
ing' the Union Trustee Company to act as your
advisor during your lifetime and as the
Executor of your Will.
Thus is assured, at moderate cost, efficient
handling of your business or personal affairs,
with continuity of service and sympathetic
understanding in the administration of your
Estate.
Discussion of your needs —in complete confi-
dence —is cordially invited. Call or write for a
complimentary copy of “Important Facts
Concerning Wills, Executors, Trustees,”
UNION TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF
AUSTRALIA LTD.
_ ... _ .... (Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1885
003 Collins St, Melbourne; 2 O’Connell St,Sydney; 398-402 Queen St,Brisbane; and at Aibury,Townsville,Toowoomba and Rockhampto
The only Trustee company having offices each with its own Board of Directors and management in three States - Victoria, New South Wales and Queensland
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Tooth and Co. (Sydney)
Net To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1940.. 870.299 12 p.c. = 741,919 128,380 1,498,363
1941.. 809.036 12 „ ~ 741,919 67,117 1,565,480
1942.. 763.438 12 „ ~741,919 1 mo .- ISI oqq
Employees' fund, £5OOO .. ) 16.519 1,581,999
1943.. 789.041 12 p.c. = 741,919 47,122 1,629,121
1944.. 839.623 13 „ ~ 803,745 35,878 1,664,999
1945.. 858.022 13 „ ~ 803,745 54,277 1,719,276
1946.. 862.966 13 „ „ 803,745 ) , Q .. 7 „ s , S 7
Employees' fund, £10.000.. ) 49)211 1,768,487
; 1947. .884,516 18* p.c. = 834,659 ) S 9 857 j 808 344
Employees' fund, £10,000.. ) 1,8UH)d44
I Conting’cies res. disclosed, £1,861,192 3,669,536
1 Unexplained addition, £858,770 ..4,028,306
1948. .916,292 14* p.c. = 896,485 1 „ „ „
Employees’ fund, £10,000..) 9,807 4,038.113
1949.. 943.160 15 p.c. = 927,399 )
Employees' fund, £10,000..) 5,761 4,043,874
‘Tooths is one of the most solidly-
entrenched brewery organisations in the
Commonwealth, financially and other-
wise. The co. began buying up large and
thirsty areas of the trade in N. S. Wales,
where it now enjoys a lion’s share, after
World War I. Castlemaine and Wood
Bros. (Newcastle) was taken over in 1920,
Mahan (Wagga) and Lincoln (Narran-
dera) in 1924, and Resch’s (then one of
Sydney’s other two big breweries) in 1929.
The absorptions, together with capitalisa-
tion of £1,262,597 of reserves, lifted paid
capital from £1,787,500 in 1919 to
£5,620,597 in 1930. The figure advanced
to £6,182,657 by a par issue in 1936, and
has remained steady since.
A year ago £2,219,962 of inner
reserves was disclosed; and, put in
the crucible, there is little doubt
that assets would still assay a lot
more than their book-value—the big
freehold that houses the Kent Brewefy
in George-street, Sydney, alone has
always been a long stocking. Altogether
£2,150,097 of the capital is bonus scrip,
and the co. has never failed to pay a div.
since it took over the business from the
Tooths in 1888 for £900,000, the average
distribution over the past 47 years being
10.5 p.c., and for the last 10 of them
13 p.c.
Contrary to general experience in the
trade the co. was able to show a slightly
lower proportion of exes, to gross earn-
ings last term, despite the heavy all-round
increase in operating and other costs. Beer
consumption in Australia increased by
16.5 p.c., reaching a peak of 148 million
gallons, an average of about 19 gallons
per head of population. After allowing
£124,084 (down £3761) for depreciation
and an unstated amount for bad debts
and other contingencies, gross earnings
stepped up by £40,417, or 1.3 p.c.:
Management, Exes.
Gross Wages, p.c. Net
Sept., Earnings.* etc. Gross. Profit.
1944.. £2,601,172 £1,761,549 67.7 £839,623
1945.. 2,697,639 1,839,617 68.2 858,022
1946.. 2,746,212 1,883,256 68.6 862,956
1947.. 2,927,302 2,042,786 69.7 884,516
1948.. 2,997,865 2,081,573 69.4 916,292
1949.. 3,038,282 2,095,122 68.9 943,160
, * After providing for contingencies.
Exes, gobbled £13,549 of the gain, leaving
the net result £26,868 stronger at a record
£943,160, or 15.2 p.c. on capital as
against 14.8, 14.3, 13.9, 13.8 and 13.5
p.c. back to 1944. Half a point was
added to the div., making it 15 p.c., and
there might have been a bit more wheat
in the ear than the eye could see.
On the demand side, a buoyant national
income, “full” employment at high and
rising wage-rates, and growth of popula-
tion augur well for the immediate out-
look. The trouble is that wages are an
dement of costs as well as income. As
the effects of wage-lifts snowball through
the economy the cost of production, trans-
port and everything else keeps on rising
until the last position becomes worse than
the first. Unless something in the nature
of a standstill is soon achieved the ulti-
mate effect upon employment, wages and
the standard of living will be disastrous.
Not long ago Victorian brewers were
granted an increase of 2d. a gallon (sd.
was asked for) in the selling-price of bulk
beer, and application for a similar increase
in N. S. Wales is still under consideration
by the price-fixing authority. Now that
the elections are out of the way, hopes
are that the request will be granted.
The backlog of rebuilding, remodelling,
extension and renovation of the co.’s
numerous hotel properties and the
breweries will call for heavy outlay as
labor and materials become available.
And the co. is well-equipped to meet the
expenditure:
1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital . . £6,182,657 £6,182,657 £6,182,657
Creditors .. . . *2,565,853 3,430,586 3,633,290
Employees' fund.. 56,289 61,421 67,522
Workers' comp'n. . 25,000 26,000 25,000
Freeholds and plant 6,057,945 7,981,228 7,762,835
Stocks .. .. 464,885 564,061 634,079
Debtors 902,533 943,334 1,001,397
Consols, cash, etc. 3,630,566 4,697,853 5,002,731
Finances are obviously snug. Last term
the big wad of Government securities and
cash, etc., was further strengthened by
£304,878. The year’s improvement in the
more-ordess liquid surplus (£2,912,295)
was £224,054.
In the market the f.-p. pound shares,
which had dropped to 725. 9d. at end
Jtme last, now fetch 80s., a! which figure
the return is 3.7 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div.
basis. Visibly the cover is 335. Id. in net
tangibles.
Myer Emporium, Ltd. (Melb.)
, Dividends ■, To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Pref. Ord. Totalf serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
’41.. 272,868 9 p.c. 9 p.c. 220,210 1
Written off freehold, £20,000 1 12,658 779,683
To staff fund, £ 20,000 .. J
’42.. 193,525 9 p.c. 74p.c.194,335 778,873
’43.. 189,564 9 „ 7* „ 194,335 774,102
’44.. 190,762 9 „ 7* „ 194,335 770,529
’45.. 241,230 9 „ 8* „ 211,585 29,645 800,174
’46.. 259,449 9 „ 9 „ 220,211 39,238 839,412
’47.. 274,094 9 „ 9 „ 220,211 53,883 893,295
From tax reserve, £50,000 .. .. 943,295
'48.. 320,320 9 p.c. 10 p.c. 237,460 82,860 1,026,155
’49.. 326,946 9 „ 10 „ 287,460 89,486 1,115,641
f Including employees' shares (6 p.c.).
Hedged in by a network of official con-
trols and restrictions in a rapidly-changing
world, the task of the retailer today is
vastly more complicated and diverse than
it used to be. The Myer organisation,
biggest of its kind in the Commonwealth,
consists of parent and three subsidiaries
—Myer Emporium (S. Aust.), Myer
Woollen Mills (Ballarat) and Economic
Cash Buying Co., which looks after short-
term credits for the parent’s customers.
As the eye sweeps down the profit
column in the table, Myers’ success in
dealing with its wide range of problems
is evident. Last term the co. did better
than most other retailers. Again expand-
ing turnover, which reached a new record,
more than took care of officially-reduced
gross margins and a steep all-round rise
in costs. After allowing £144,324 (up
£23,217) for depreciation, the parent’s own
trading profit was £769,536 (up £39,943)
and £42,410 (up £1683) was received in
divs., making total profit before taxation
£811,946 (up £41,626):
1947. 1948. 1949.
Profit before tax .. £674,094 £770,320 £811,946
Allowance for tax . . 400,000 450,000 485,000
Profit for shareholders 274,094 320,320 326,946
Since the allowance for taxation —the
business turns in more for the Govern-
ment than it does for shareholders—was
£35,000 heavier, the net result benefited
by only £6626. The £326,946 of profit
covered the pref. and staff partnership
divs. (together £64,960) and 15.2 p.c. on
the £1,725,000 of ord. capital, compared
with 14.8, 12.1, 11.2, 10.2 and 7.3 p.c.
back to 1944. The distribution, of which
4 p.c. is labelled bonus, was kept at 10
p.c., best rate paid since 1929.
Actually the position was more com-
fortable than the parent’s own figures
alone suggest. After deducting outside
shareholders’ interests, combined net earn-
ings of the parent and subsidiaries were
£408,675 (up £19,548), which was enough
to pay the parent’s pref. and staff divs.
and show 19.9 p.c. on its ord. capital,
as against 18.8 p.c. in 1948.
The removal of factory operations
from Lonsdale-street during the year pro-
vided the co. with three new selling floors.
Equipment of these, further modernisa-
tion of the rest of the store, and instal-
lation of 12 more escalators (14 were
put in during the previous term), thus
quickening transport of customers from
one floor to another, show up in
a net growth of £262,522 in plant, etc.
To help meet the outlay the mortgage
debt was increased by £105,000, and
£68,124 was added to the amount coming
to sundry creditors, including the bank:
1941.' 1948. 1949.
Capital .. .. £2,479,950 £2,479,950 £2,479,950
Mortgages . . 408,000 355,000 460,00(1
Creditors . . . . 1,422,929 1,652,880 1,721,004
Tax reserve .. 160,000 456,519 478,438
Staff fund .. 62,823 62,823
Freeholds, etc. . . 2,084,560 1,808,900 1,794,500
Plant, etc. .. 21,850 388,832 651,354
Shares .. .. 441,309 502,898 582,558
Stocks .. . . 1,818,063 2,548,498 2,220,730
Debtors . . . . 846,878 886,046 1,224,240
Cash, etc. . . 93,614 18;907 15,221
Despite bigger trading and rising prices,
stocks were £327,768 lower, which sug-
gests cautious buying and provision
against price fluctuations. The increase
of £338,194 in debtors’ balances was
largely in the furniture and country-order
sections. The drop in the more-or-less
liquid surplus (£737,926) was only
£88,303.
With things as they are the level of
retail profits depends upon the extent to
which expanding turnover offsets, or
helps to offset, the now dangerous
advance in costs and arbitrary narrowing
of gross margins. Price-control has out-
lived its usefulness and should be aban-
doned. Any decline in sales would result
in a proportionately greater fall in net
earnings.
Over the last couple of months the
price of the ords. has strengthened from
465. 6d. to 50s. 3d. in the market. At
the higher figure the return is approxi-
mately 4 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div, basis.
The prefs. at 41s. 9d. yield 4.3 p.c. Net
tangible cover (combined figures) is £6
3s. sd. prefs. and 38s. Id. ords.
Walter Reid and Co., Ltd. (Q.)
Writ- To Re- Re-
May, Profit. Dividends. ten Off. serves, serve*.
& £,£>£>£>
1940 ~ 36,634 8 p.c. = 20,000 4,993 11,641 328,138
1941.. 30,721 8 ~,, 20,000 4,140 6,581 334,719
1942.. 26,073 8 „ ~ 20,000 14,930 325,862
Added insurance reserve, £8325 .. 334,187
1943.. 19,688 8 p.c.= 20,000 2,899 330,976
Added to reserves, £11,675 .. ~ 342,651
1944.. 32,037 9 p.c.= 22,500 t „ am qao ako
To staff fund. £5OOO .. ) 3)73(5 801 343)452
Unexplained addition reserves, £5,800.. 349,252
1945.. 29,590 10ip.c.=22,500* 1,812 5,278 354,530
1946.. 32,347 18* „ ~ 27,000 1,095 4,252 358,782
1947.. 37,982 14* „ ~ 29,000 4,901 4,081 362,863
1948.. 38,479 14i „ ~29,000 4,460 5,019 367,882
Unexplained addition reserves, £77,000 444,882
Capital profit, £B3OB .. .. .. 453,190
June,
1949.. 30,457 15 p.c.= 30,000 4,734 448,913
* 4 p.c. on £250,000 and 6* p.c. on £200,000 of
capital.
With a twinkle in its eye and mindful
of the stout prop for capital and pleas-
ing history of the business, the market
notes the drop in last term’s declared net
earnings, which was accompanied by a
lift in the div., disclosure of £77,000 of
inner reserves and heavy increase in the
holding in subsidiaries. It summed up
the position by lengthening its bid for the
f,-p. pound shares from 495. 6d. to 535.
over the last 12 months. At the higher
figure the return is 4.5 p.c. on a 15 p.c.
div. basis, with possibilities later on. And
the “Wild Cat” has no doubt that, put
in the crucible, assets would still assay
more than their book-value.
The business, built up largely by the
Rudds, has its roots in Queensland
pioneering days. Its growth has kept in
step with agricultural, pastoral and min-
ing activities in the centre and central-
west of the State, with which connections
are maintained from Rockhampton head-
quarters. And there are branches at Syd-
ney and Brisbane. Ever since the
financial blizzard of the early 1890’s the
management has followed a policy under-
pinning the structure against the effects
of drought and other misfortune, visibly
and otherwise. Paid capital advanced
from £93,750 early in this century to
£250,000 in f9lB with the aid of only
£11,250 of cash subscriptions. In 1945
4s. a share (=£50,000) was returned, re-
ducing paid capital to £200,000 in f.-p.
16s. shares. And over the last 44 years
shareholders have never failed to receive
a div., the average being over 10 p.c.
Last term drought and loss of live-
stock hit the co.’s customers in the
central-west, and the effects are likely to
be felt during the current financial year.
Conditions elsewhere were favorable, and
so were incomes and employment
generally. Bigger turnover, due partly to
price rises and partly to increased sub-
sidiary activities, sent gross earnings up
by £41,207:
Gross Gross
Profit. Exes.* Profit. Exes.*
1931.. £92,044 £74,472 1944.. £77,032 £44,995
1936.. 87,592 55,789 1940.. 107,737 75,390
1938.. 101,091 65,446 1947.. 123,210 85,228
1940.. 106,144 69,510 1948.. 128,375 89,896
1942.. 105,185 79,112 1949.. 169,582 139,125
* Excludes depreciation.
Including something for bad debts and
taxation, exes, took all the gain and £8022
besides. After deducting the allowance
for depreciation (shown as written off in
the introductory table), the net result was
£8296 lighter at £25,723, or 12.8 p.c. on
capital as against 17, 16.5, 15.6, 13.8 and
14.1 p.c. back to 1944. That disregards a
capital profit of £B3OB on sale of invest-
ments and the disclosure of inner re-
serves already referred to. The board
considered the outlook good enough to
lift the div. from 14£ p.c, to 15 p.c., which
called for £4277 more than the declared
profit from trading, leaving reserves still
2| times higher than paid capital.
The co. recently became closely associ-
ated with the Queensland British Food
Corp. in handling the export of grain
sorgum. This might have some connec-
tion with the big change in investments
last term, when shares in subsidiaries
(£407,402) increased by £357,407, and
holdings in other cos. (£32,580) were re-
duced by £332,051. The co. thus has more
invested outside the original business than
in it:
1940. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital.. £250,000 £200,000 £200,000 £200,000
Sundry creditors 49,110 52,567 59,872 77,388
Tax provision 24,262 62,812 69,571 75,645
Freeholds and
plant . . 62,102 16,683 17,975 19,995
Stocks .. 161,962 140,923 198,024 241,529
Book debts .. 59,468 57,940 71,933 94,398
Cash . . . . 39,225 12,503 17,767 26,042
Investments . . 338,753 469,193 414,626 439,982
To increase stocks by £43,505, book
debts by £22,465 and investments by
£25,356 net only £17,516 was added to
the outside debt. The more-or-less liquid
surplus (£241,516) was £75,011 stronger,
due to disclosure of inner reserves.
The investment possibilities of the scrip
depend largely upon how the new sub-
sidiary, concerning which the board is
tight-lipped, turns out.
Permanent Trustee Co. (Sydney)
To Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1940.. 11,812 10 p.c. = 11,000 812 73,172
1941.. 11,669 10 „ „ 11,000 669 73,841
1942.. 11,177 10 „ „ 11,000 177 74,018
1943.. 10,900 10 „ ~ 11,000 73,918
1944.. 12,170 10 „ „ 11,000 1170 75,088
1945.. 13,332 10 „ „ 11,000 \ 7K
To staff fund, £1650 .. I 582 75,770
1946.. 10,541 8 p.c. = 8,800 I ...
To staff fund, £lOOO .. f - 741 76)511
1947.. 10,715 8 p.c. = 8,80.0 1915 78,426
1948.. 10,832 8 „ „ 8,800 2032 80,458
To renovations, etc., £lOOO .. 79,458
1949.. 11,769 8 p.c. = 8,800 2969 82,427
To renovations, etc., £3OOO . . . 79,427
The trustee cos. are rendering an essen-
tial and extensive service efficiently and
cheaply these days. So far as their earn-
ings are concerned, for over a decade
there has been a keen tussle between
rapidly-rising costs —due to inflation, high
taxation and the greatly increased work
now connected with administration of
estates and steadily-growing returns
form a constantly-expanding volume of
business at fixed corpus and other
charges. A recent small increase in these
charges, which came too late to have any


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
Position Vacant.
APPLICATIONS are invited by The Raub
Australian Gold Mining Co. Limited for
the position of GENERAL MANAGER of
the Company’s Mine at Raub, Pahang,
Malaya. Applicants should possess a Uni-
versity Mining Degree or Diploma from a
recognised School of Mines, and a sound
practical experience in the mining and
treatment of gold bearing ores. Com-
mencing salary £3OOO Sterling per annum
plus cost-of-living allowance subject to
periodic review but at present £212/288
Sterling per annum. An entertainment
allowance will also be given and free
furnished quarters provided. Fares and
reasonable travelling expenses of the suc-
cessful applicant and wife will be paid to
the Mine. Term of initial engagement
three years, with six months’ leave and
return fares to Port of embarkation on
completion. Applications, closing 31st
January, 1950, with original references
and particulars of age, marital state and
experience—accompanied by Medical Cer-
tificate regarding health—should be ad-
dressed to The Secretaries, CHAS. A.
CLARKE & SON, Box No. 277-D, G.P.0.,
Brisbane, Queensland.
Public Notice.
I, LEO ALEXANDER BLOK, of Nether-
lands nationality, bom at Rotterdam, Hol-
land, and resident ten years in Australia,
now residing at Wentworth Towers, Point
Piper, Sydney, intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality and
Citizenship Act, 1948.
Personal and Missing Friends.
IN the Estate of HELEN FERGUSON,
Deceased, of 8 Durham Street, Monifleth,
Angus, Scotland. —INFORMATION is re-
quired as to the children of HUGH
FERGUSON, of Queensland, nieces and
nephews of the abovenamed.—CLELAND,
TEESDALE SMITH & HARRIS, 7 Pirie
Street, Adelaide.
JAMES ROBERTSON, son of JOHN
ROBERTSON, Deceased, late of Rangiora,
New Zealand, and JANE ROBERTSON.—
WOULD anyone knowing the whereabouts
of the abovenamed JAMES ROBERTSON,
formerly of Toowoomba, Queensland, who
was last heard of in 1922 at 601 Harris
Street, Ultimo, Sydney, kindly communi-
cate with SLY & RUSSELL, Solicitors, 16
Barrack Street, Sydney?
TO WALTER JOHN LIDDLE, formerly of
Levin or Peilding, New Zealand, and Syd-
ney, New South Wales, Australia, and any
child or remoter issue of his and any
person claiming through any of them. —
PURSUANT to an Order made by the
Supreme Court of New Zealand, you are
required to send in your claim to share
in the estate of JOHN LIDDLE, late of
Levin, in New Zealand, fanner, so as to
reach the undersigned by the 31st day of
March, 1950, failing which such estate
will be distributed disregarding your
claim. —THE SOLICITOR, Public Trust
Office, Wellington, New Zealand.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ENID MARY SCHWEDE formerly of
108 Douglas Street Stanmore in the State
of New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE
that FREDERICK RUDOLF SCHWEDE
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2078
of 1949 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 21st February 1950 and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge
from G. W. MITCHELL, Solicitor, 33-39
Hunter Street, Sydney.— (l.s.) J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALLEN AUGUSTINE WILLIAMS.—
TAKE NOTICE that SHIRLEY MAY
WILLIAMS has filed Petition No. 3073
of 1949 on the grounds of desertion
for three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 28th day of Febru-
ary 1950 and obtain a copy of the peti-
tion free of charge from JOHN D.
NORTON, Solicitor, 393 George Street,
Sydney.— (l.s.) J. DOUGHAN, Registrar
in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
Federal Matrimonial Cause.
TO MICHAEL NOEL RYAN formerly of
353 Riley Street Surry Hills.—TAKE
NOTICE that PHYLLIS RYAN has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 3874 of 1949
on the. ground of three years’ desertion
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court House King Street Sydney
by the 6th March 1950 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from JOHN
WARREN BINNEY, Solicitor, of 79 Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney.— (l.s.) J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALLAN RICHARD HINDERWELL
late of “The Balconies’’ Campbell Parade
Bondi. —TAKE NOTICE that DAPHNE
BETTY HINDERWELL has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 4206 of 1948 on
the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court House King Street
Sydney by the 6th day of March 1950 and
obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from ANTHONY IRWIN ORMSBY,
Solicitor, 3 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, in
the said State.— (l.s.) J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar in Divorce.
1 ;
/
. 3ca
v
/<?4i-
««khM
Bar;
WST?*
c (* ( sam,*i* o
If* THI KINO
*US
' V5J> WHITE
«£?'r
S^s®s£s
Vht s S?i/,f S/f"^
iiut
BIACMIIt
SCOTCH WHISKY
Distilled and Blended in Scotland
benefit worth mentioning on the
latest accounts, should help ease
the squeeze a little.
For the five years to the close
of accounts in 1940 net earn-
ings averaged £12,123, compared
with an average of £11,849 for
the next five years, and then an
average of £10,946 for the four
years to the close of last
accounts. Hence the drop in
the div. from 10 p.c. to 8 p.c.
three years ago, and it might be
a while yet before better need
be expected.
At the moment money is
wanted in the business for reno-
vations and renewals, and £4OOO
was specifically earmarked for
the purpose over the last two
years. Certainly the business
can be expected to keep on ex-
panding, thanks, among other
things, to widening recognition
of the advantages of the corpo-
rate over the private trustee.
But until inflationary pressures,
and with them the rise in costs,
cease, the annual net gain is
likely to be very moderate.
However, with the change of
Government comes promise of a
long-overdue review of the tax
structure. Today the aggregate
of public levies has added enor-
mously to the cost of conducting
business. And when personal
income tax on dividends is added
to taxes already levied on co.
profits, from which dividends are
paid, a form of double taxation
is created which can be justified
only as an emergency measure.
Shareholders have a right to ex-
pect that the State will not be
unduly extractive or throw an
excessive share of social and
other public costs on a single
section of the community.
Encouraging features last term
were continued growth in the
volume of trusts on hand (up
£404,081), and the tight hold the
management kept upon exes.,
which remained at 89 p.c. of
gross earnings, despite the rise in
wage and other costs:
Exes p.c.
Trust Gross of Gross
Funds. Earnings. Exes. Earnings.
£ £ £
1920.. 6,349,568 24,948 15,689 62.9 p.c.
1980. .15,975,572 61,899 45,858 74.0 „
1940.-22,534,608 75,014 62,602 83.4 „
1944. .24,768,652 82,686 69,916 84.6 „
1945. .25,627,619 83,915 70,583 84.1 „
1946. .26,010,826 87,050 76,509 87.9 „
1947. .27,132,985 92,209 81,494 88.3 „
1948. 99,210 88,378 89.0 „
1949. .28,042,893107,173 95,404 89.0 „
The year’s net earnings benefited
by only £937 of the £7963 by
which gross earnings increased.
The £11,769 of profit was 10.7
p.c. on the £llO,OOO of paid
capital compared with 9.8, 9.7,
9.5, 12.1 and 11 p.c. back to
1944.
When the books closed, the
co.’s own funds, together with
£21,903 coming to sundry credi-
tors, etc., were represented by
freeholds and equipment £22,621,
mortgages £89,495, Government
securities, cash, etc., £71,606,
and shares in the Canberra sub-
sidiary £5009.
The £5 shares paid to 11s.
each—7ss. of the remaining 89s.
is callable only if needed on
liquidation—fluctuated between
21s, 6d. and 17s. 9d. in the
market over the last 12 months.
Last weekend the figure was 21s.
3d., giving a return of 4.3 p.c.
on an 8 p.c. div. basis. The
cover is 18s. lid. in net tan-
gibles.
“Khills”: Small isolated con-
centrating plants in Australia are
mostly capable of making only
a single concentrate, usually
minerals of one metal, or a bulk
concentrate of minerals of two
or more metals. Moreover, Aus-
tralian smelters only purchase
ores of a single metal. When
ores are complex, such as
copper-lead, tin-copper, and the
secondary metals either not paid
for or even penalised against,
the concentration given often
consists of saving the minerals
of the primary metal and dis-
carding those of the secondary
metal, a rather appalling prac-
tice. In the case of such com-
plex ores, overseas smelters
handle and pay for both metals,
which simplifies treatment; but
permits to export this class of
ore from Australia are not
granted. Prospectors cannot
alter the nature of ore mined,
of course. Where complex ore
cannot be adequately treated in
Australia it should be allowed to
seek a market abroad, even if
an adjustment had to be made
to the Government department
concerned due to any difference
in local fixed prices and those
overseas.
* * * *
Sunshine Gold Development,
Ltd., a sluicing proposition
operating on the Watut River
(New Guinea), and which has
never lived quite up to original
expectations, got the nozzles
going again in July, 1948. 'For
the year to June 30 last 188loz.
gold (including a proportion
from tribute) was won from an
unstated yardage. The metal
realised £15,873, an average of
£8 Bs. 9d. an ounce. The profit
was £1279, or 1.2 p.c. on the
£lOO,OOO of capital, which is in
10s, shares. Yardage, and
therefore costs, were affected by
shortage of both European and
native labor, and by some large
stones encountered by No. 9
elevator. No. 10 elevator site,
on which a start was made last
month, is expected to yield
“good” values about March next.
Much is also expected from the
Widubosh area, now being
worked on joint account with
Bulolo Gold Dredging. Here
opening-up operations, which
began since the close of
accounts, have been “most
encouraging”—bigger yardage
and lower costs are anticipated.
While shareholders welcome the
chairman’s statement that the co.
is “operating at a profit” with
“reasonable expectations of
dividends in the near future,”
they would also welcome dis-
closure of enough data to enable
them to arrive at a conclusion of
their own. According to Stock
Exchange returns, co. treated
44,000 c.y. for 8930 z. fine gold
for the four months to October
last, an average of 9.7 gr. per
yard. The scrip, which touched
17s. in the market in 1948, sold
at 11s. last weekend.
* * * *
Golden Plateau’s mine, at
Cracow (Q.), is shaping well, but
a sharp rise in costs brought net
earnings down by £5llO, leaving
the figure at £16,587 for the year
to June 30, 1949. A 6d. div.
(15 p.c.) called for £21,000, and
another 6d. a share was sent out
on Nov. 17, thanks to the lift
in the price of gold. Treatment,
recovery and cost figures com-
pare as follows over the last
three years:—•
Ore f —Recovery— s Costs
Treated, Gold, Silver, Per
Tons. Oz. Oz. Ton.
'47 .. 23,542 5050 7621 40/9.8
'4B .. 27,067 6869 8072 38/0.5
'49 .. 26,353 7142 7202 45/11.7
Average grade of ore treated last
term was 5.42dwt: and fine gold
recovery was 90.3 p.c., com-
pared with s.o7dwt. and 91.7 p.c.
respectively for the previous
term. Shortage of labor affected,
and continues to affect, extrac-
tion, throughput and develop-
ment. Still, 54,000 tons was
added to ore reserves during the
year, lifting them to 145,300
tons, which includes 95,800 tons
of probable ore, the lot averag-
ing 5.22dwt. (up 0.29dwt.).
There is still a lot of prospecting
to be done to prove continuation
of the ore in the lower western
workings and the continuation
of values in the Sunrise shoot at
the eastern end. Here the ore-
body bulks well and is said to
be very promising—values are
expected to improve as the
bottom level is extended. On
the basis of last year’s figures
the lift in the price of gold would
add about £33,900 to gross
revenue. Cost?, which are still
rising, will gobble part of the
gain. The f.-p. 3s. 4d. shares
fetch 7s. 3d. in the market as
against ss. three months ago.
* * * *
Red Ned (Tennant Creek)
Gold Mine, N.L., is on the slips
in Adelaide with a nominal
capital of £25,000 in 4s. shares.
Of these the vendor takes 50,000
paids, plus £4OOO cash, for leases,
plant and buildings, etc., and
75,000 are offered for public
subscription, payable Is. on
application and allotment, and
the balance as required. Pre-
liminary exes, are put at £450
and brokerage (the issue has
been underwritten by W. J.
Cowell, Adelaide, and G. D.
Wharton, Sydney) at £625, leav-
ing £9925, including money at
call, for working capital. More
will be needed if the prospect
turns out up to expecta-
tions. The lease is about
midway along the e.-w. line of
lode some three miles south of
Tennant Creek. On this line
are also situated the Noble’s
Nob, Rising Sun, Eldorado,
Hammerjack, Mt. Samuel and
Skipper leases, which together
have produced most of the gold
that has come from the field.
The Red Ned was pegged in
1934, and 386 tons ore taken
from shallow workings yielded
3640 z. gold, exclusive of tailings.
The hematites on the lease have
never been systematically ex-
plored, and R. J. Rankin thinks
the structure indicates the
presence of shears (ore channels),
which could be located by under-
ground development. A pre-war
Government geophysical survey
found a major anomaly of small
dimensions, suggesting the
existence of another ore-body at
depth. All that can be said
definitely at the moment is that
the co. is a prospect with specu-
lative possibilities.
* * * *
Barrytown Gold Dredging (B.
14/9/’49), which sold its
2,500,000-c.y.-p.a. bucket-dredge
as it stands dismantled at
Barrytown (N.Z.) to tin-dredging
interests in N.Q. for £A85,000,
has a paid capital of £128,750 in
125,000 £1 ords. and 75,000 Is.
deferreds. All the scrip ranks
equally on a share-for-share
basis for surplus assets. When
the money for the dredge is re-
ceived, the board proposes to
call in the undertaker. At March
31 last co, held N.Z. Gov-
ernment securities, debtors’
balances and cash, etc., totalling
£NZ69,626, and there was
£NZI43 coming to sundry credi-
tors. Subject to liquidation
exes., the amount available for
distribution in Australian cur-
rency at the present rate of
exchange is £A171,160, or
enough to return paid capital
and show a surplus of 4s. 3d. a
share, Sydney market prices the
pound shares at 20s. and the
deferreds at 2s. 3d.
* * * *
Hill 50, at Mt. Magnet (W.A.),
will pay an interim 9d. a share
(18.7 p.c.) on Jan. 4 next. At
June 30 last ore reserves above
the 400 ft. level were officially
put at 73,000 tons, averaging
s.2dwt, The drill, however, has
proved that the ore-body lives
and carries good values to below
800 ft., and chairman A. E.
Weston thinks it safe to rely
upon at least 500,000 tons of a
grade equal to mine average to
this depth. At the 600 ft. level
length and width of the lode are
estimated at 400 ft. and 80ft. re-
spectively. The 4s. shares fetch
12s. 6d., or thereabouts, in the
market.
* * * *
New Coolgardie, an offshoot
of Western Mining Corp., in-
tends to continue shaft-sinking
on its Surprise and Barbara
leases, Coolgardie (W.A.), A
plant recently purchased from
Phoenix Gold Mines Pty. is now
treating ore from the Surprise,
For the eight weeks to Dec. 6 a
total of 4819 tons was crushed
for 23360 z. gold, an average of
9.69dwt. per ton. A lot of money
has gone into these leases over
the last couple of years, and
some shareholders are wonder-
ing whether it was all spent as
wisely and economically as it
might have been.
* * * *
Western Queen (1936) N.L.,
which has been unsuccessfully
hunting for a worth-while gold
property in Westralia for the last
dozen years, now has another
proposition (name and location
not mentioned) under considera-
tion. At end May last co.’s prin-
cipal assets were 15,000 shares in
Hill 50, 110 ords. in Wool-
worths (W.A.) and £7OB of cash,
etc. There was nothing coming
to outsiders. The directors have
not drawn any fees since 1937.
* * * *
' A lot of geological, geo-
physical and aerial investigation
is being done in Westralia by the
Bureau of Mineral Resources
and the State Department of
Mines, The object of work in
the north-west basin and Kim-
berley areas is oil and water.
South of Kalgoorlie a refraction
seismic survey suggested the pos-
sible existence of buried river
channels, and arrangements have
been made with Western Mining
Corp. to test-drill selected loca-
tions in the hope of finding
alluvial gold in payable quan-
tities.


s u VM tIOOH
o*ll ~
/E&;
c. •
mno
*4
O o
fl O I'v
• > >
0 V
Alt
#
? f../
a\
PEW r-QLPS WiNES
new
ARGONAUT
Qfpeer/6eu//
NOW OPERATING ON TOKYO-HONG KONG—LONDON
AND SINGAPORE —HONG KONG SERVICES
Proudly, 8.0.A.C. presents the first of twenty-two new
4-engined Argonaut Speedbirds !
Here is an aircraft with passenger appeal ... an aircraft
designed with you in mind! Relax in wide, soft seats —
adjustable, of course. Enjoy a new freedom of movement in
either of two passenger cabins and in the smart rear lounge
that seats six.
Argonaut Speedbirds, built for 8.0.A.C. by Canadair Ltd.,
accommodate forty passengers, cruise quietly and majestically
at 298 m.p.h. on four Rolls-Royce Merlin Engines. Passenger
cabins are sound-proofed and the entire aircraft is air-
conditioned. Pressurised, too, for smooth over-the-weather
flying where the elements are most friendly.
The superlative comfort and superior performance of these
new aircraft are matched only by 8.0.A.C.’s 30-year-old
tradition of Speedbird service and experience!
B.O.A.C.TAKES GOOD CARE OF YOU
FLY BO AC
M 36
Information & Bookings : Qantas Empire Airways Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Townsville, Cairns, Darwin (General Agents in
Australia ), or from Booking Agents in all cities.
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS EMPIRE AIR-
WAYS LTD., TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD. & SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
The Exchange Rate
It is now over three months
since the Attlees and the
Crippses consented to the de-
valuation of the pound sterling
in relation to the dollar, the
move being made after consider-
able United States pressure had
been brought to bear on the
British Government. What
benefit has been achieved so far
has been very hard to discern.
The general tenor of reports
from Britain on the subject is
that whatever might have been
gained from the move is rapidly
becoming less likely of fulfil-
ment because the British
economy is moving to a new high
level of production costs partly
induced by the devaluation of
the currency itself. The British
Socialists are finding that mone-
tary manipulation alone is no
cure-all where hard economic
problems are confronted and
the Government is afraid to back
up monetary manipulation with
political straightforwardness.
Although it has stressed the need
for drastic national economies,
when the moment came for
their introduction the Attlee
Government was afraid to face
the issue squarely, and a people
tensed for the crisis turned
away in disgust.
So far as Australia is con-
cerned, our currency has main-
tained its 20 p.c. discount in re-
lation to the British pound.
There has been no alteration in
the London-Australia rate for
18 years. But Britain’s devalua-
tion of 30 p.c. in relation to the
dollar had the effect of reduc-
ing the parity of our own cur-
rency in relation to U.S. money
to the same extent, and today
we get only $2.24 for our pound,
compared with $3.20 hitherto.
As a producer of raw materials
for export—wool, wheat, metals,
dairy produce, etc. —this depre-
ciation of our money in terms
Of dollars has had the effect of
inflating the prices paid, in Aus-
tralian currency, for these ex-
ports. It has.also had the effect
of raising prices of our imports
from dollar countries (immedi-
ately noticeable in the retail
price of petrol) and from other
countries as well, though to a
smaller degree, as a rule. But
wherever there is a dollar mar-
ket for a country’s raw materials
the general effect has been for
prices to go up to sterling coun-
tries also—as in the case of
Australian wheat sold to Great
Britain and India and Brazilian
coffee sold to Australia.
The higher prices being re-
ceived for wool, wheat, etc., by
Australian producers, as well as
the steeper cost of imports (ex-
pressed in Australian money),
are having the tendency of in-
creasing costs in Australia, The
higher prices for exports lead
the unions into demands for
higher wages based on the
capacity of industry to pay, and,
in any case, transport and other
charges are bound to rise with
the higher costs of petrol, fuel
and lubricating oils and many
other imports.
Though the producer of wool,
wheat and other primary pro-
ducts has nominally received a
much bigger income from his
overseas sales following devalua-
tion, the Treasury has probably
been the chief beneficiary, both
in higher income taxes and
higher Customs duties on dearer
imports.
Whilst sterling remained at
$4.03 to the pound The Bulle-
tin was opposed to any altera -
tion in the exchange rate on
London. It preferred stability,
especially in view of the fact that
post-war costs and prices, within
Australia, had not yet stopped
rising, while, on the other hand,
there was a tendency for over-
seas prices to fall. It was con-
cerned about problems in our
essential exporting industries.
Now, however, stability has
been upset, by a shove in the
opposite direction, to all sterl-
ing-linked currencies, and the
rise in internal Australian costs
that was previously regarded as
menacing has been made doubly
so. The general effect of the de-
valuation of sterling and Aus-
tralian currencies in relation to
the dollar has been to spur in-
flation on at a very critical
period. Without question the
whole matter deserves a close
review by bankers, economists
and Treasury officials. It
should be noted that, even if the
Australian pound were to come
to par with sterling, our pound
would still buy only $2.80,
whereas, before September 19,
it would change for $3.20. So
that prices which remained
stable on a dollar basis since be-
fore September 19 would still be
higher than at that time when
converted into Australian
money.
It should be refnembered that,
even if we come to par with
sterling now, in the event of a
violent deflation overseas we can
return to the present exchange
rate as a depression measure.
And we would be stronger on
the costs side.
One doubtful aspect of a re-
turn to parity with sterling
would be the effect of competi-
tion from British goods on Aus-
tralian industries. That might
not be as serious as it at first
seems. Many British products
sell in Australia today only be-
cause the cheaper Australian
article is in short supply.
Expressed in Australian
money, the cost of living to the
Australian traveller in the United
States was astonishingly high
even before devaluation. But
with the dollar now the equiva-
lent of 9s. Australian the dis-
parity in living costs, expressed
in money without going into the
question of higher personal in-
comes in the U.S.A., is fan-
tastic. The difference between
the arbitrary exchange parity
and what is known as the pur-
chasing-power parity is so great
that it cannot, in this case, be
ignored.
To take the view that Aus-
tralian costs will inevitably creep
up to the same level as those in
the United States is a weak one
indeed. The war has now been
over for more than four years,
and the time has come to put
back some stiffening into the
buying-power of the Australian
pound. With our money at
$3.20 to the pound we had a
useful apparent monetary margin
over United States costs. In
many ways it was fictitious, but
it was helpful to the export in-
dustries. Now the present ex-
change rate has become an em-
barrassment to the land indus-
tries because of its inflationary
effects on wages, other produc-
tion costs and taxes payable to
the Federal Government.
One class which is bound to
suffer from devaluation is
those people living in Australia
on money savings, interest from
mortg a ge s, Commonwealth
bonds, etc. The rising costs
induced by devaluation in-
flation bring them no cona-
mensurate increase in
income. This class has
been losing out ever
since war began ; it lost
as a result of war-time
inflation, it lost in the
post-war inflation, and
it is now losing again
as a result of the de-
valuation stimulus to
living costs. The same
thing applies to those
who have saved for
years in order to buy a
home. Many are find-
ing that their annual
savings are not even
keeping in step with the
annual increase in the
cost of building a cot-
tage.
The time has come
for all aspects of the
economy to be reviewed
and a stand taken to
deal with the produc-
tion depression, the
high taxation and the
ever-increasing loss of
buying-power of the
Australian currency. It
is not much use trying
to deal with these things
one at a time. The attack on
inflation and the production lag
involves operations on several
fronts, and in it the exchange
rate cannot be ignored.
The Sharemarket
There was no spectacular
move in share prices following
the defeat of the Chifley Gov-
ernment. The general move-
ment was upward, but those
stocks most prominent in the
pre-election advance steadied,
notably B.H.P. Australian Con-
solidated Industries was one of
the few stocks to show an ap-
preciable gain. The market
seemed content to await i de-
velopments, or, possibly, a
further buying-wave from Lon-
don.
Australian sharemarkets are
normally strong about Christ-
mas, with, very often, a weaken-
ing later. This year there are a
number of “bull” points, includ-
ing the change of Government
and publication of figures reveal-
ing a record wool cheque for
the first five months of the cur-
rent selling season:
There is some market specu-
lation as to what would happen
to sharemarket prices in the
event of the bringing of the
Australian pound to par with
sterling. Whilst pastoral-agency
concerns might be directly
affected, as well as Barrier mines
arid similar exporting companies,
most industrial enterprises selling
to an Australian market should
be able to maintain their profits
in spite of competition from the
sterling area. This applies with
particular force to 8.H.P.,
which still manufactures the
cheapest steel in the world. The
price of its pig-iron, incidentally,
has just been raised from
£8 2s. 6d. a ton to £lO 2s. 6d.,
and steel from £l6 ss. to
£lB ss.
From the purely exchange
angle it will be realised that the
Australian investment stock that
still yields the same rate of
profit and dividend will pay that
dividend in sterling to English
shareholders, so that the British
price of such an investment
should tend, to rise to the Aus-
tralian level and not the other
way round.
Should our pound be brought
to par with sterling those British
investors who recently bought


“I think I’d like
a White Horse
better than anything”
è
WHITE HORSE WHISKY
A pleasure to remember
a joy to find again.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO CHARLES ROBERT FELTHAM.—
TAKE NOTICE that BETTY ELIZABETH
FELTHAM has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2919 of 1949 on the grounds of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance by
the 27th day of January 1960 at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney and a copy of the petition may be
had without charge from S. S. MITCHELL,
Solicitor, of Bank Corner, Wickham, New-
castle, or his Sydney Agent, MR. J. K.
DIXON, Solicitor, of 115 Pitt Street,
Sydney.—(l.B.) J. DOUGHAN, Registrar
in Divorce.
s?
>r-
&
£
The Backbone of Australia
AUSTRALIA is the leading wool pro-
l during country in the world, responsible
for more than half the world supply of
merino wools and more than one quarter
of all wool produced.
For well over 100 years the Bank of New
South Wales has fostered and promoted the
development of the wool industry back-
bone of the Australian economy.
Today, through its widespread network of
branches and oversea agents, the "Wales”
finances the growing and marketing of a
larger proportion of the immense wool clip
than any other institution.
Consult and use
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA .
Incorporated in New South Wales with limited liability
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1878
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
O O GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRTJAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN O. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
T
&PE
PS
Drink
WOLFE’S
fz^hvmdttc
SCHNAPPS
Hot? Tired? There’s nothing
like Wolfe’s Schnapps to
revive you. Try it with iced
water, soda, lemon or cordial—
it's refreshing.
In large, half or quarter size
bottles.
AS GOOD FOR WOMEN
AS FOR MEN
ws.aot.it
Australian industrial stocks
should make a tidy profit. But
there would not continue to be
such an exchange-speculation
demand from London for Aus-
tralian issues.
An Old, Old Story
“Lemon”: A tale which is as
ancient as the petroleum industry
has been resurrected in the Syd-
ney Press goes like this:
A “huge oil combine” em-
ployed, at an unspecified date,
an Australian “topographical
surveyor and oil technologist”
of wide experience, presumably
to report on the prospects of
oil in an undisclosed part of
New Guinea. Not only did he
do this, but he went one better
and furnished them with a loca-
tion on which they would strike
oil at a depth of 2000 ft. How
the surveyor arrived at this
depth is not indicated. His in-
structions were to drill no
deeper than 500 ft., which left
1500 ft. to deduction, conjecture
and imagination, all of which
are dangerous and liable to give
rise to very misleading conclu-
sions in any undrilled area.
When the depth of 500 ft. had
been reached the surveyor was
instructed, presumably on ad-
vice from the geological depart-
ment of the combine, to plug the
hole and transfer the equipment
to the crater of an extinct vol-
cano, where he started drilling
under protest. The protest led
to his summary dismissal, but
no other action appears to have
been taken until after the death
of the surveyor, when his widow
and a lifelong friend provided
the erstwhile Minister for Ex-
ternal Territories with full de-
tails.
Mr. Ward does not appear to
have examined any documents
to support the claims made, but
he “understands” that letters,
written by the man before his
death, are in existence protest-
ing against the treatment he had
received from the combine and
the manner in which his efforts
to obtain oil had been deliber-
ately frustrated, and describing
the exact area where the original
shaft was sunk, Mr. Ward, how-
ever, has indicated his intention
to bring the, matter before the
Government and to urge that
searching inquiries be made.
He added: “I will also seek
the establishment of an oil in-
spectorate to watch the search
efforts made by various com-
panies in New Guinea. I have
reason to believe that some of
these companies are not as sin-
cere in their search for oil as
they would have their investors
believe. I am of opinion that
dollar interests are not favor-
ably disposed towards the dis-
covery of oil in New Guinea.”
The account, as printed,
differs only in detail and locale
from those which enjoyed great
popularity in Europe and U.S.A.
during the naughty ’nineties.
The untapped oil in the classi-
cal versions, however, was
usually 200 ft. (and not 1500 ft.)
below the bottom of the hole,
and the circulation of the story
was not normally sponsored by
a Cabinet Minister.
A very similar rumor was
current in 1940, but it was with-
out foundation. Nor can the
story apply to Australasian
Petroleum, whose prodigality in
money and technical skill in the
search for oil in Papua place it
beyond any suspicion of in-
sincerity.
Moreover, we have it on Mr.
Ward’s authority that the opera-
tions to which he has directed
attention were in territory where
Australian oil - search com-
panies are not functioning.
It is possible, of course, that
the tale refers to the Vogel Kop
area of Dutch New Guinea,
about which very little authentic
information is available. In that
case it was outside Mr. Ward’s
sphere of influence even at the
time he made the statement.
In view of. recent political
changes it is doubtful if the pre-
sent Government will take much
heed of the sponsorship by the
member for East Sydney of a
story which shows all the indica-
tions of being a reproduced
classic bearing the imprint of
the Port Moresby Furphy Fac-
tory. Nor is it likely that the
powers that be will consider
favorably Mr. Ward’s demand
for yet another Governmental
inspectorate.
A. E. Goodwin, Ltd.
As far as earning ability goes,
A. E. Goodwin seems to have
transformed itself in the two
years under receivership. But
the overdraft from the Com-
monwealth Bank is still much
greater than the original limit,
so the bank’s receiver stays in
residence. Sooner or later the
board will probably have to re-
solve things by raising extra
capital—which may entail, to
start, a reconstruction of the
present shares, since both the
ordinaries and prefs. are still be-
low par on ’Change, despite the
ground made up since 1947.
For Stock Exchange purposes
the engineering business of A.
E. Goodwin is rather an unknown
quantity. It was 20 years old and
had £41,500 capital at the time
of conversion to a public com-
pany in 1946, when the public
took up a further £50,000
ordinary and £50,000 5 p.c. pref.
capital at par. War contracts
had widened its scope to cover
shipbuilding and -repairing and
heavy engineering work as well
as the making of steel pipes and
welded machinery. The pros-
pectus said that taxable profits
for the three years to June,
1946, had averaged £7636.
Within 12 months of the con-
version the bank’s receiver had
stepped in to nurse the swollen
overdraft, and accounts were
published showing an enormous
loss of £69,250 for the 1946-47
term. This was explained by
hitches and delays in transfer-
ring the main works to a new
Crown-owned factory at St.
Mary’s (N.S.W.), and in start-
ing up new production-lines for
rolling-stock, sheet-metal pro-
ducts and a slow-burning domes-
tic stove-heater (for which the
preliminary expenses amounted
to £10,500). The board had also
reorganised its slipways and
waterfront workshops at Black-
wattle Bay (Sydney) and Port
Kembla.
In two years the company has
gone far towards redeeming that
sad start. After showing £11,427
net profit in 1948, the board and
the receiver reported a figure of
no less than £51,174 last term,
which, after meeting a normal
5 p.c. pref. dividend, would
represent over 50 p.c. on present
ordinary capital. This profit was
exempted from income-tax be-
cause of past losses.
The staple product seems to
have been railway-wagons, of
which nearly 500 were delivered
to various States last year, com-
pared with 150 in 1947-48. Not
much is said about the stoves,
but the production of small
ships is “progressing” at Port
Kembla, and total orders on
hand are said to be double those
held a year ago, promising
“ample work for years ahead.”
The need for working funds
increased last term, and the
overdraft (£231,182) could only
be very slightly reduced. The
chairman admits the need for
more capital and for some pre-
liminary reorganisation, but “it
is still, too early to speak
definitely.” Another good trad-
ing year (subject to tax) may
raise the company’s prestige on
’Change, although the last sale
price of 19s. for the ordinaries
compares with their net tangible
asset backing of 175., and with
virtually no dividend record. If
the board feels inclined to make
a distribution this term, £23,000
of tax-free reserves is avail-
able ; but some of the current
profit should go towards finally
wiping out the profit-and-loss
debit as well as the pref. arrears,
which together amount to
£22,500.
With more confidence, per-
haps, it may be hoped that the
prefs. will eventually command
a better price than the present
18s. 6d. These are now owed
arrears of 2s. 6d. a share (the
total amount for the company is
only £6250), which would leave
the net price at 16s. after settle-
ment. At that price the normal
yield would be 6} p.c., and the
shares are backed by 535. each
in net tangible assets.
Cooper Louvre Gissing, Ltd.,
offered 560,000 ss. ords., of
which 120,000 were taken by
C. E. Cooper Pty., the rest
offered to the public. The lot
were rapidly oversubscribed in
Sydney. Net profit of the co.
to be acquired last year was
equal to 16.1 p.c. on the pro-
posed new capital of £140,000,
no credit being taken for pro-
posed interest savings. Net
tangible assets will be 3s. 3|d.
per ss. share. An attraction of
the float is the acquisition of the
Cooper-louvre patents, for which
£30,000 is being paid. There is
a strong demand for these
louvres in the present building
boom.


The Camelers Wite
BY
Ethel Anderson
ILLUSTRATED
BY
UNK WHITE.
JUST before sunset the string of
camels was halted in a deserted
garden about five miles beyond
Lucknow. The towers of that city
were then black against a daffodil sky,
and the sun’s rays were cutting every
object in that wide plain into such sharp
divisions of dark and bright that the
grove of junipers, the cameleer, his
wife, his camels, their colts and keepers
(a dusty and dispirited group that had
travelled far) were carved like agate
intaglios against a background of light.
Quickly the merchandise was > lifted
down, the camels, freed of pads and
and panniers, were tethered to pegs
hammered in the spongy ground.
Quickly the blue smoke of cooking-
fires, coaxed by cakes of dried dung,
rose, slowly curling upwards; the black,
tattered tent was pitched.
The three menservants ate, each by his
own fire, and in silence, as is customary
in the sect, Magi, Parsi, or Guebres, to
which their kind belong. The cameleer,
his back propped up against a bale of
carpets, was fed by his wife, a girl of
twelve. It was two years since her
father had tied the bell to the litter of
her camel, as a sign of parting, and
bidden her farewell.
There were five camels, mostly hirsute
brutes with black hair tufted on their
shoulders, knees and necks, for they were
ill-bred, the offspring of Arabian dams
and two-hunched sires; only one colt,
a five-year-old, his milk-teeth just shed,
was of good stock, a pure-bred Arabian.
When her husband had eaten, the
cameleer’s wife, intending to sell it, took
this beast to the kerb and, holding it by
a halter, stood, raised a little by the un-
even ground, with one hand laid on its
cheek; and the golden light shone on
this hand which was one day to be called
“the shell full of pearls” in a thousand
poems,
. Since she was a Persian, this girl’s skin
was no darker than ivory. She was,
however, thin, for she had travelled from
Persia across the western edge of the
Seistan desert, afterwards crossing the
five rivers of the Punjab, and so coming
into the Kingdom of Oudh. Like that
of most nomad women, her body had
the resilience of a creature of the
wilderness through which she had
passed; she had the grace of carriage to
be seen in some delicate-footed gazelle,
accustomed to springing from rock to
rock in the splintered tracks of the hills,
or leaping from stone to stone over
rivers too shallow to be bridged; she
had crossed many such.
This Persian girl was called “Jarira,”
a name contrived from the word “Jari,”
used to designate the chime of globular
bells strung round the neck of a pack-
horse. Her husband’s name was Jan,
nicknamed “The Bereft.”
A S the yellow light faded to blue, the
vapor from a thousand cooking-fires
united to form a cloud that floated a few
feet above the damp earth ; the river
Gumti flowed near by, though its shelv-
ing banks concealed it. The smell of
burning dung, of jasmine, pan and sandal-
wood, the lowing of homing cattle and
bleating sheep, the maddening and in-
sistent note of the Koel, the cuckoo
called “the brainfever bird,” muffled in
the warm moist air, made the coming
night tangible. Many wayfarers passed.
None looked at Jarira ; a child holding a
camel colt was no rarity. It was still
brilliantly light, however, when a palki
turned off the highway, making for a
rough track beaten down in the long grass
near the hillock on which she stood.
This palanquin’s bearers wore the Royal
livery, with red turbans banded in white,
and each man had in his belt a dagger
sheathed in red leather.
Two whisk bearers, a number of match-
lock men, and several Indian gentlemen
walking with drawn swords accompanied
this ornate litter, which had no curtains,
for Saadat Ali Khan, King of Oudh, the
immensely tall young man who sat up-
right under its terracotta awning, was
going to shoot pheasants and peacocks in
the park beyond the deserted garden in
which the nomads were encamped ; he
held his fowling-piece in a jewelled hand.
The Lucknow Court Historians (who
k were very well paid) say that at this date
Saadat Ali Khan, fifth King of Oudh, had
“a delectable lip on which the moustachios
were first sprouting,” that his glance was
“more dazzling than that of the Majestic
Turk, the World-illuminating Sun” (in
their parlance the sun is associated with
Turk, son of Japhet) and that the young
monarch’s footsteps were “more glorious
in their paces than the movements of the
Five Wanderers,” by which they meant
the planets in their rounds ; however this
may be, he was a personable youth, fresh-
complexioned, for he had both Persian
and Turkish blood, and the glance he
cast on Jarira was tolerably hawklike.
AT once noting his interest (but un-
aware of his rank) the girl sprang
forward to bow down to the ground
before his litter. Rising, after many
humble obeisances, she gave the young
king a direct, childlike look, and addressed
him in her perfect Persian. She came from
Shiraz, where the most musical language
in the world is most exactly spoken, and
in the poem he wrote that evening Saadat
Ali described Jarira’s speech as
being “as sweet as preserved pistachio-
nut.” He listened to its music like one en-
chanted.
“Be thou exalted, O bright Beam from
the Seraphic Countenance of God!”
Jarira exclaimed. “Behold, Lord! A
camel colt! A pure Arabian! Perceive,
O August Bringer of All Good Things!
Its teeth! It is certainly five years old! It
is swifter-footed than the lover who lifts
his feet in pursuit of the beloved!” She
lifted to the king’s intent gaze a most be-
seeching appeal from her brilliant, jet-
black eyes. Tears suffused them. “Buy!
Joy-Diviner!”
The King had caused his palki-bearers
and attendants to halt. Alighting, he
stood beside Jarira while she forced open
the camel’s black, blubbery lips, her ex-
quisite hands enthralling him, as her voice
had done.
“Surely, being merchants, the Thrice-
welcome need such camels for their own
use?” Saadat Ali Khan asked, his gaze
resting on the bales of carpets, the saddles,
the black tent.
FOR answer, Jarira, taking his hand as
a child might, led him to the patch of
firelight in which the head camelkeeper
sat eating his meal.
“Do not break the nut —first look at
the horoscope!” she quoted. “Behold!
Ineffable Rose of Heaven! That base
slave is enjoying the ventricles of a kid
stuffed with spices and moistened with
sour buttermilk —so delicious a dish!”
She swallowed involuntarily.
Pausing by the second servant, Jarira
continued, “Observe! Son of The Ten
Thousand Virgins!” (By this she meant
all the stars in Paradise.) “That baseborn
fool is eating, avidly, toasted vetches, a
relish fit for kings! ” She tried to conceal
the bead of moisture which had collected
at the corner of her mouth. “Before it, he
licked quite clean a platter having on it
a gut pudding!”
With Saadat Ali Khan’s hand still
clasped in her own, she led him to the
third cooking fire.
“Divine Inflamer of ' the Heart’s
Garden! Observe this abject wretch! He
is devouring the fat of a sheep’s tail
poured over a dish of sesame-flour! With
it he takes an aloe, dressed with a sugary
sauce!”
Jarira next drew the king, on tiptoe, to
the fire near which her husband was
dozing.
“I fed my husband on a knob of deer’s
liver seiVed with salted almonds. I gave
him many gobbets of this appetising meat
roasted on skewers over a clear fire. He
is sated. He sleeps. One sippet of that
succulent delicacy,, a pellet no bigger than
the berry of the grape, keeps a Dervish
alive for three days.”
She dropped Saadat Ali Khan’s hand
and faced him, coming close to whisper,
furiously.
“What has this vile culprit eaten?
What? What? Tell me that now! Ha!
In two days—one wild fig, stale as a
fetid rose! In two days, a crust of barley
bread! To gnaw—a root of the wild
pepper-tree! ”
She held up a chewed stick.
WHAT is coincidence but a recurring
dominant in the fugue of life? Had
Saadat Ali Khan passed five minutes
later, Jarira, tired, would have vanished
within the black tent. Had he come an
hour earlier, the nomads would not yet
have pitched their camp. As things were,
the destiny of two lives, differing so
greatly in their origins, were to become
linked.
On that first meeting Saadat Ali Khan
bought the camel colt and departed, but
every night he dreamed of the cameleer’s
wife, and all day long he thought of her,
and within a week he had bought her
from her husband,
“Sir, these wanderers live in the nook
of poverty,’’ Jan, the Bereft, had said to
Saadat Ali Khan, excusing the sale.
“This slave has long attempted to bring
himself to the favorable notice of Allah —
in vain! The time had come for him to
sell all he had at a loss, to return to Persia
on foot —a menial in an alien caravan!
As for his House” (by this he meant his
wife) “what God would have protected
one so simple?”
Having thus justified himself, and after
a few murmured words with Jarira, who
was dry-eyed, he pocketed his money and
took himself off.
""THE Heart’s Delight Palace, or
1 Dilkusha Bagh, which Saadat Ali
Khan built next the deserted garden for
Jarira, once the cameleer’s wife, then his
Queen, still stands, surrounded by its park,
which is three miles in extent.
The untended grasses in this extensive
domain were seven or eight feet high
when the Marquis'of Hastings (as he re-
cords) went shooting there in 1814 ; and
they are still inordinately long, being
more like pampas grass than anything
else.
Round the house itself, which is built in
“the Saracenic taste,” there are flower-
beds still; the same groves of junipers still
shadow its square towers, now crumbling,
the same maiden-weed and fennel still
overrun the garden by the ancient jujube-
tree, where a small purple flower resem-
bling the “pasqueflower,” which only
grows where blood has been spilt, or tears
shed, flourishes, even today; or did,
yesterday.
Lady Loudoun, who accompanied Lord
Hastings on this State visit, gives a de-
scription of Jarira, sitting next Saadat
Ali Khan “on a throne approached by
six steps, and surrounded by gold railings.
An emerald, said to be the largest in the
world, sparkled in the centre of a square,
jewelled canopy above their double throne
of ivory and gold.”
“Queen Jarira,” Lady Loudoun con-
tinues, “though extremely beautiful, was
simply dressed and perfectly domesticated,
for she was so obliging as to give me a
recipe for preserving barleycorns in
saffron, enjoining me, through her inter-
preter, to be sure to prepare this delicacy
‘when the moon is in her Third Mansion,
in the belly of Aries.’ ”
The Englishwoman further relates that
Jarira’s Son, the “Chief Justice,” a child
of five, came, as Court etiquette pre-
scribed, to escort them to dinner. “I was
late dressing and the waiting Chief Justice
fell asleep. Waking him, his mentor
carried him out and whipped him,” she
writes, “and then the child returned with
perfect gravity to his chair.”
Historians (not of the Court) relate that
when Saadat Ali Khan brought Jarira to
live in the Dilkusha Bagh, he discarded
his Muhammadan wives, and that he kept
Table-birds .
The match-bark of the younger dog sets
fire to
an indignation of turkeys under the olives.
Scurf-wigged like senescent judges, drum-
puffing desire,
they bloat their wattles, and the chorus
gives j
a purple biased judgment on the pup:
Trouble enough, pup, bloody trouble
enough! ■ i
So much for morning and the sun’s
generous
flattery of the metal of their feathers.
Noon makes them somnolent, dusty, glad
to drowse
the fly-slurred hours of midday August
weather
in scooped hollows under the ripe trees
whose fruit sweetens them for the Christ-
mas season.
The tilted sun, the craw’s shrunk empti-
ness
wake them to stir their lice and strut
again,
head back, tail spread, and dangling crest
and greedy, angered eye ... The spinsterly
hen
blinks the lewd fan and frets among the
grains,
knife-grey and sleek, hungrier, less re-
strained
by stifling turkey pride beneath the red
slap of the leering comb. But they sub-
mit.
The fan snaps to; head doubles over
head —■
and day’s escape delineates them fitfully
like darkness clotted into nervous shapes
under the olives, in whose night they
sleep.
N.S.W.
KENNETH MACKENZIE.


no other women, neither concubine nor
“muta”—that inferior wife who, accord-
ing to the Prophet’s directions, may be
married for three hours, three days, three
months or three years; and the fame of
his love for Jarira, and the constancy of
these lovers, was bruited abroad through-
out the whole of India.
Poets who brought the King a new
poem on his wife’s beauty were certain of
a rich reward. Many such tributes may
still be read, for they are preserved in the
library of the
Chuttar Munzil, a
palace built by
Saadat Ali’s son
and successor
(our little “Chief
Justice”), whose
name was Ghazi-
ud - Din —Haidar,
King of Oudh.
One poem says
that Jarira “has
the carriage of
that bird that
lives in the air,
eats the wind, and
never alights on
earth,” another,
that she “re-
sembles the Lady
Narcissa, who had
black- eyes,” a
third, that “her
waist is like a roll
of new silk” ; all
writers, however,
agree in asserting
that her conversational powers far
exceeded her bodily allurements.
'T'HESE lovers had lived in complete
1 happiness for seven years when one
morning Saadat Ali Khan awoke at the
moment of “false dawn,” that transient
light that shines and fades an hour be-
fore “true dawn,” and which some
astronomers believe to be caused by the
passage of the Archangel Michael, who,
relieved of his watch on earth by Azrael,
is then returning to Paradise.
The King thought he heard footsteps
“whispering to the grass” as Jarira s
were said to do, so he rose and looked
out of the window. He saw his wife
making her way towards the furthermost
grove of junipers.
He watched her, leaning against the
sash in his thin gown, the borders of
which, where they swept the floor, had
been fumigated with amber. His strong
and muscular body was relaxed, and his
heart rejoiced, as it always did, at the
sight of his life’s beauty.
Jaxira followed a rough track which
(he noted for the first time) had been
beaten down in the coarse grass. She
brushed aside the cobwebs, spun across
the dewy branches, with her right hand ;
her left was hidden.
Quickly she returned, empty-handed,
walking through the mists with her easy
and buoyant tread, and her husband did
not attract her attention; he went back
to bed, untroubled, but thoughtful.
IT had been Jarira’s custom for the past
1 few months to go hawking on any fine
morning. She would ride the camel colt,
which she had begged her husband to give
her —it was the one gift she had asked of
him and he called her, laughing, “the
bibi” (the lady) “of One Request.”
With her jess-hawk on her wrist, and
the small brass drum she used to excite
her falcon, when flying, tied to her saddle,
Jarira would disappear among the
creamy-white, waving grasses towards the
river, returning, sometimes, after as long
a run as five miles, with a peacock, a
pheasant, or a brace or two of sisi—the
fat little quail that is such a good table-
bird.
On this day when, earlier, he had
watched her, Saadat Ali Khan saw Jarira
depart, and then, urged by an over-
mastering impulse, he made his way to-
wards that grove of junipers which she
had visited before dawn.
There was a group of three saplings
near the deserted garden where first he
had met her, in the centre of which grew
an ancient jujube tree. Under this Saadat
Ali Khan found a flat stone on which
were scattered some green leaves, in
which, doubtless, food had been wrapped.
A single rosary bead lay beside them.
When he saw this bead the King at once
remembered that he had noticed a rosary
made of just such beads lying across
Jarira’s white neck when her unlaced
smock had fallen open on the night of
their first meeting; the beads were made
of the clay of Karbala, the place of
Husain’s martyrdom, and were of a rare
and distinctive pattern.
“Ah!” thought Saadat Ali Khan, his
heart leaping high in anger. “The
husband! The Persian cameleer!”
JEALOUSY so inflamed his imagi-
nation that he saw, as clearly as if he
stood before him in the flesh, the young,
haughty, hook-nosed man, with his eagle
glance, his brilliant and disdainful eyes,
his active and graceful body. He seemed
to hear again the murmured conversation,
the blurred and intimate exchange of
words (to which he had then given no
attention) with which Jan had parted
from Jarira; and he measured the de-
votion she had inspired in his own heart
against the possible emotion she may have
awakened in that of the man who
appeared to part from her with such in :
difference for
the beggarly sum
of ten thousand
aspers. A mere
bagatelle! H e
could not believe
—when he, for
the first time, con-
sidered it seri-
ously —that any
man would so
carelessly let so
rare a woman go ;
he felt certain
that the Cameleer
had returned, and
that he was
attempting to win.
back the wife he
he sold.
Searching, he
found other
tracks that led
from the flat
stone to the
deserted garden,
and then to the
highway. Yes! There was the very hillock
on which Jarira was waiting when he
first saw her.
Standing in that green and pleasant
grove, with the small bead so deftly
shaped of embossed clay lying in the
palm of his shaking hand, the King
thought of the seven years’ joy he had
known with Jarira, and of their one
quarrel, a time of misery, when he had
retired in his rage to his palace in Luck-
now, removing even their son from her
keeping. She had healed this breach by
sending him “a tear stained with anti-
mony” ; even in his present grief, his
doubt of her, his heart beat faster as he
dwelt on the happy revulsion of feeling
be had experienced when he received
this token—“the fifth treasure of the
Amir Khasrau” ; a sign recognised by
lovers, who studied, as a matter of course,
“The Eight Treasures of the Amir
Khasrau” and “The Nine Ecstasies of
Queen Nowshera ” both testaments of
love.
It was then necessary for Saadat All
Khan to return to the palace, where his
palanquin was waiting to take him to his
Hall of Audience in Lucknow, for like all
Eastern kings he daily showed himself to
his subjects, heard their complaints, and
gave judgment according to his own
ideas of justice or mercy. He did not,
therefore, see Jarir a when she returned
from hawking.
NEXT morning, having been, all night
long, a prey to jealous forebodings,
Saadat Ali Khan rose before the “false
dawn,” and hid himself in the juniper
grove. He had not long to wait before
he heard Jarira’s footsteps rustling
through the tangled grasses. He saw her
stoop over the flat stone, to arrange on
it, wrapped up in betel leaves, a loaf
made of the kidneys of wheat, a rich
pilau of rice and sultanas, together with
the wings and breast of a peacock, a
cup of milk and a chew of betel-nut —
this last offering being one that is always
given to a departing guest.
Taking up the clay rosary bead, and
without a glance to right or left. Queen
Jarira quickly returned the way she had
come.
Saadat Ali Khan, with a beating heart,
waited, his hand on his two-handled
dagger. He felt certain that the husband
who had sold Jarira would come to get
the food she had left. He was right.
Not long after his wife’s disappearance
(it was still before dawn, and the white
mists were clinging like wadding to every
bough) he heard the weak tinkle of a bell
which at first he took to be one such as
herdsmen attach to their sheep, or one,
perhaps, from that chime of globular bells
worn by packhorses after which Janra
took her name, for the feeble music
approached him slowly, at the pace or
a grazing animal. Yet, somehow, there
was a difference! Watching the path
through the trees Saadat Ali Khan was
puzzled! He could see neither beast nor
pedestrian though the sound of the bell
crept, certainly, nearer.
He had been so positive that he would
see Jan, the Persian, walking at a man’s
height, young, strong, and handsome,
with that air of pride and disdain that he
remembered so well, that it was with a
shock that almost overmastered him, a
check that caused his heart to race, his
breath to catch in his breast, that he saw,
dragging himself along on the ground on
elbows and knees, the wretched travesty
of the man; blind, without hands, and
with the dead white patches of leprosy
to account for the weak, tinkling bell,
for the law insisted that all lepers should
be so distinguished.
Saadat Ali Khan turned away, taking
no trouble to conceal his movements; he
guessed (rightly) that Jan could neither see
nor hear him.
IN the study-of Eastern literature, or
1 the observation of Eastern life, there
is to be noticed, in the Eastern heart, a
curious indifference to pain in others, and,
often, a Stoical acceptance of personal
suffering. . .
Pity, as Western people know it, is the
product of Christian virtue. In the East
pain is, on occasion, regarded as a means
to an end, and the infliction of pain may
be deliberately practised, as it is in a
Muharran procession, when men scourge
themselves with iron chains sharply
spiked.
The King felt no pity for the man at
tit his feet.
Walking swiftly through the tall grasses
so graceful now in the autumn plumage
of their white, waving seed-bents, Saadat
Ali Khan went to consult a Holy Man
(of what Faith does not transpire), an
ascetic who had a hut, like an old-
fashioned beehive, or straw skep, built
just above flood-water mark on the
Gumti’s orange-colored, sandy banks.
The Holy Man was sitting with one arm
raised above his head, his naked body
dusted in white ash, and with a shirt of
hay-weasel hair, with which he sometimes
castigated his flesh, lying beside him.
Saadat Ali Khan knew this Holy Man
to be “in great favor with the invisible
world,” and he told him of his doubts of
Jarira.
This Fakir, or Saint, either Muham-
madan, Hindu, or Sugi Pantheist, gave
always oracular answers to the questions
put to him ; he was always right, but his
devotees might wrongly interpret him.
Today he said, first, “That stick has
two ends.”
Next he exclaimed, “What! Must you
saddle the male lion?”
Finally he ejaculated, “God spent forty
mornings mixing the
clay with which he
fashioned Ad a m
Accepting the
purse of gold the
King laid at his feet,
the Sadhu went to
sleep; he would
say no more.
SAADAT ALI
KHAN, quite
correctly, interpreted
these dark sayings
to mean that he
should wait and take
no action till he
knew more; so he
returned to the Palace of Heart’s Delight,
a little comforted.
Having much business to transact, since
the English were giving trouble, and the
King of Delhi (his suzerain) was already
at war with them, the King did not see
Jarira during the day, and at night, with-
out visiting her, he went to sleep in his
own apartments.
He was awakened by a beam of light,
and his hand clutched at the dagger kept
always within reach, but it was Jarira
who knelt beside his bed. Bowing to the
floor, as she had bowed before him on the
evening they met, and holding her hand
before her mouth as a well-bred woman
should, she asked leave to speak to him.
He laughed at her, and made a place for
her beside him, but she shook her head.
“Ornament of all Noble Hearts,” she
began, “this plucked rose has dew on its
petals.”
Saadat Ali Khan leaned on his elbow to
watch Jarira, delighting, as he always did,
in her beauty. Relaxed and happy under
its spell, he waited to hear what she had
to say, not caring much what she said;
for the answer to his doubts had come to
him out of his own heart; he knew he
could never part from her, whatever her
transgressions.
Though she dressed very plainly, wear-
ing most often the indigo smock and
Persian trousers of the nomad, Jarira
always made her person fragrant with
faint and elusive scents of attar, jasmine
or orris-root, and tonight, failing a flower,
she had brought in, and now laid on the
floor beside her lamp, one of those small
variegated melons which are so delight-
fully perfumed that women carry them in
place of nosegays.
“On the night when the Beloved opened
Paradise to this slave she gave Jan the
Cameleer a rosary, telling that Feckless
One to return it should he need help.
Late in the spring came one bead, with
word that he starved. This Flower
Beneath the Foot of Love put food,
daily, for him in the juniper grove.”
Jarira looked piteously at her husband,
but, reassured by his kind glance, she con-
tinued, “Never was the least crumb from
the Royal bounty given to him by this
humble woman ; all she caught, hawking,
she sold to buy such other food as that
poor man needed.”
Jarira paused; she was trembling.
“Word came tonight that the time has
come when that Unhappy One looks to-
wards the window.”
(By this she meant that Jan lay dying.)
“Beloved, that One is inept in speech.
Possibly he will be like Munkir and
Nakir, who were too much flurried to
answer the questions put to them by
Rizwan, the Porter at the Gate of
Paradise, and so fell into the Lake of
Fire.”
Jarira gave her husband the scrap of
paper she carried.
“Behold! On this paper is written the
answers to those
questions Rizwan
will ask that Child
of Sorrow.”
I T is related in the
1 archives of the
Court of Oudh that
King Saadat Ali
Khan gave orders for
this paper to be
pinned to the breast
of Jan, nicknamed
“The Bereft,” when
next day he
crossed the horse-
hair bridge which
spans the fire burn-
ing eternally between earth and heaven ;
and that Rizwan, the Heavenly Porter,
reading the answers Jarira had there
correctly given, let the poor tongue-tied
wanderer pass through the Gates of
Paradise without speech; to lave him-
self in the enchanted waters under
Muhammad’s throne, and to enjoy the
ineffable delights of Allah’s Garden,
Gothic.
When on that dreadful trial morn
We wove the Christ a crown of thorn,
I think cathedral spires were born.
The Eastern man feels more at home
And does not speculating roam
The earth, but caps it with a dome
And sits contentedly beneath.
More afraid of life that death.
Controls his thought, controls his breath,
And sticks sharp thorns into himself . . .
But we who worship God in wrath
Defend against the hand He hath
And prick the skies with Gothic gorse
As if to torture at the Source,
Revenge our agonised divorce.
Perhaps that’s why few men neglect
To thorn their verse with intellect.
N.Z.
W. HART-SMITH.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
The Christmas cocktail-party of the
Royal Empire Society drifted between the
basement and the drawing-room. When
the drawing-room became crammed full,
the overflow began surging down to the
big hall in the basement, where the
drinks were just as good. President
Percy Spender and Mrs.. Spender, who
gave official welcome, were showered with
congratulations on his Ministerial office.
Percy looked happy. But then he always
does. Mrs. Spender’s black satin frock
got its fullness with flat pleats in
the skirt. Her black crinoline hat had
a curving brim, and was very attractive
to her fair looks. Her gloves were elbow-
length, and of red suede with gold zippers.
Sir Angus and Lady Gillan came rather
late. They had had a full day, what with
British Drama League and other dos.
Lady Gillan’s afternoon frock was of
powder-blue lace, ankle-length and full-
skirted. Her grey suede shoes were
bound with silver. A wisp of tulle with
three golden pink roses made her party
hat. Miss Elizabeth Plummer wore
Italian-blue velvet effectively. A mist-
blue plume fell from the right side of her
velvet toque. The Sidney Herrings were
a good-looking couple. Colonel Spain
and Mrs. Russell were talked to by every-
body. Mrs. T. J. Baxter of Breadalbane
wore a hat of fuchsia tones with her
frock of delphinium-blue. Lieut.-
General and Mrs. Berryman were there ;
so was Margaret Gillespie, who sails for
England early in January.
People say this and that about Lady
Macbeth, and no doubt the ladies of her
day looked askance at her goings-on. But
look at the matter from a housewife’s
point of view. There she was with a big
house to run —every room of it as large
as the Tivoli theatre, and only a few bits
of painted arras or boar’s-skin to keep
out the draughts. There was no central-
heating, no hot-water service, no cheerio
radio-calls. No wonder a woman of Lady
M.’s high-powered temperament carried
a heart smouldering like powdered ice
within her breast. She was probably so
dashed cold she was glad of any bit of
excitement to keep her arteries going.
She went too far, of course, when
she sooled her husband on to murder the
king and clamp the crown of Scotland on
his own brow.
The whole story, expounded so cun-
ningly and poetically by William Shak-
speare, was enacted by the Stratford
Players before an audience that crammed
the Tivoli at the play’s Sydney premiere
last week. This was a first-night of first-
nights. Perhaps to rival the beauty of
Diana Wynyard women turned up not
only in their best frocks but in their best
faces. Make-up and hair styles were pretty
well faultless. High rank must be given to
the hand-painted marquisette that swirled
about Mrs. Marcel Dekyyere, to the
fros>white crepes, shmly-cut and square
necklined, of Mrs. C. R. McKerihan, the
celadon-blue satins worn by knight Harry
Moxham’s lady, the forget-me-not-blue
of Margaret Longworth’s frock. A lagoon-
blue hip-length jacket bordered with tiny
shells got itself talked about. Mrs. Del
Balzo, wife of Italy’s Minister in Aus-
tralia, was one of the noted. The Claude
Plowman lady was a glitter of black
sequins.
On the stage going about her somewhat
unusual hostess duties Diana, as Lady
Macbeth, wore her locks dark and flowing
—rather a nuisance they must have been
in that castle where even in summer the
air blew nimbly. The coloring of her
robes and cloaks ranged from primrose-
green to gold. The first frock was rich
with fur—miniver was the thing then.
It also had a fringe of tassels from
the waist, each bursting from a
lacquer-red stem. Above this was
a cloak, all feather-fluttered —raven’s
feather no doubt. Then there was a black
dress with heavy gold stoles covered with
a gold cloak lined with scarlet. Those
cloaks looked as though they might weigh
a ton. What a peevish load to carry up
and down the castle stairs!
It wasn’t a case of nothing over two
and sixpence when the executive of the
subscribers’ committee gave its Christ-
mas-party in the A.B.C. rooms over
Woolworth’s in King’s Cross. This was
one of the super parties of last week.
The flowers alone, in another clime,
would have represented a fair fortune.
However, the members of the commit-
tee, Mrs. Hope Gibson, Mrs. Charles
Lloyd Jones, Mrs. Harry Evans, Anne
Stevenson, Mrs. Oliver Latham, Mrs,
Davis among them, brought in car-
loads of Christmas-bush and -bells,
hydrangea and larkspur, and the rooms
became a gloria to Christmas. Mrs.
Hope Gibson and Mrs. Walter Swinson
received the guests, and orchestra and
committee-members for once hob-
nobbed. Director of the orchestra,
Eugene Goossens, was unable to be pre-
sent, so he missed out on the gardenia
for his buttonhole. All the girls and
the lads of the orchestra were given one
from a basketful brought in by committee
member Mrs. Davis. Color symphony
expressed by the hostesses was larkspur-
blue worn by Mrs, Gibson, anemone
pinks by Mrs. McCartney, deep delphi-
nium by Mrs. Lloyd Jones, poinsettia reds
by Mrs. Walter Swinson, cool greys by
Mrs. Harry Evans.
Dip your lid, or curtsy, to Mrs. Nancy
Wake, the girl who got off with all the
laurels, if not the rewards, of the Barton
electorate at the Federal elections. Nancy,
who has the heart of a lion, as proved
by her courageous and clever work with
the underground movement in France
during the war years, took on the “Doc,”
a man of law of many years’ experience,
big noise of U.N.O. and Minister for
External Affairs, in his own territory of
Barton, and made history by almost
wresting the seat from him. It’s a hearten-
ing example for any Davidina facing
Goliath. Norton Trevaire photograph.
Every year Colonel Spain, of Kurraba,
keeps tryst with the Women’s Auxiliary
of Sydney Hospital. Last week, as one
of the directors of Sydney Hospital, he
went along to the auxiliary Christmas tea-
drinking, and received on behalf of the.
Macquarie-street institution a cheque for
£9OO. President of the auxiliary, Mrs.
Braun, handed over the precious bit of
paper. An earlier cheque brought the
auxiliary’s total to £l6OO.
From Maoriland came a letter in a
picturesque envelope. The left-hand
corner showed a small girl and boy, he
with a fishing-rod on his shoulder, she
carrying a pail. They were walking along
a cliff (dangerously on the edge of
nothingness it would seem) in the shade
of a graceful young sapling. The stamps
on the envelope were about! an inch and
a half long, and depicted an appealing
young nurse holding a happy child in her
arms. Envelopes and stamps afd the
idea of the N.Z. Federation of Health
Camps, Inc. Money goes to support
health-camps for children. The issue is
for a limited time. Each stamp, of
course, carries a charge of Id. or |d. for
the scheme.
Young singer Denise Thompson wore
a lovely off-the-shoulder frock of
palest-apricot-pjnk taffeta for the coming-
of-age party which her parents, Mr. and
Mrs. Garnet Thompson, of Bathurst, gave
in her honor at Girraween, Killara, early
this month. Among the guests were
her lifelong friend Ruth Carver,
daughter of Acting Commonwealth
Statistician, Dr. S. R. Carver, and Mrs.
Carver, who celebrated her twenty-first
birthday on the same day. The date was
also a birthday anniversary for close
friend of the family Mrs. Lillian Fell, of
Longueville. Many guests made the
journey down from Bathurst for the
party. These included many student
friends from the Conservatorium, as well
as Dr. Suthers and Miss Margaret John-
son, whose wedding will take place at
the end of the month.
On a tide of farewells that would have
floated an ocean liner Maisie and Max
Murray finally got off in the Surriento
from these shores. On the day before
departure Maisie, who had expected to
he on the high seas, was met clutching a
brand-new hatbox with a brand-new hat
inside. With a few spare hours on her
hands, what can a woman do better than
buy a hat? Maisie was also buying a
cargo of Penguins for the voyage. Well-
known writer Gladys Lister was among
the many who threw a monster-size
cocktail cheerio for the Murrays. And
of course the Kiwis gave something as
hair-raising as a Maori haka at close-
range. Terry Vaughan and his merry
men lifted their final glass after their
show, which presented an act written by
Maisie for John Hunter.
At four-thirty today in the Shell Com-
pany’s theatrette Litchfield Film Produc-
tions are presenting a Christmas-party
preview of the Spastic Centre film “There
Is a Plan,” supported by “Table Tennis”
(Dunlop), featuring Victor Barnes and
Michael Szabados, and “Birth of a Car.”
From Melbourne
When the Governor’s daughter
Jeanette presented prizes to the children
at the Blind Institute in St. Kilda-road,
Pam, a little blonde with partial sight
dressed in a pink sprigged organdie frock,
presented her with flowers after C. L.
Kimpton, the institute’s president, and
Mrs. C, H. Tutton, president of the
auxiliaries, received the visitor. On be-
half of the children lan, equal dux of the
school, read a message of welcome
printed in braille, and then presented his
script in book form to Jeanette. There
was enthusiastic applause for Dorothy,
the only totally blind girl in Australia
to hold the Bachelor of Music degree.
Her happiness this Christmas will over-
flow, for the institute’s board of manage-
ment is giving her a piano. Children
with partial sight described for their less
fortunate friends the floral float which
drove into the grounds complete with
characters from “The Glass Slipper.”
After this Father Christmas got busy.
This Broothorn study is of Betty, the
vivacious daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Wallace Mitchell, of Elsternwick, who
has returned after two years overseas,
during which time she worked in the
travel department of a London bank,
picked hops in Kent, taught in a Swiss
girls’ school and finally had a job as
governess in Rome,
At the Christmas-party which the Lord
Mayor, Cr. J. S. Disney, and his wife
gave in the Lower Town Hall, illumina-
nated Christmas-trees, masses of flowers
and leaves glistening with tinsel snow-
flakes formed the decorations. Mrs.
Disney wore a gown of coral-pink crepe
which glistened with sequin embroideries
at the hipline and a matching stole. Her
daughter-in-law, Mrs. Alec Hay, was in
bronze and rust-shot taffetas fashioned
with a huge back bustle falling into a
slight train. Mrs. Harold Wootton’s
slimly-cut black gown had a beaded neck-
line. Mrs. Fred Hardy wore a white
floral-patterned marquisette gown, her
daughter Margo an ankle-length frock of
white broderie Anglaise, the skirt
bouffant, the bodice off-the-shoulder and
having short puff-sleeves. Judy Rush’s
frock of pink satin was worn with a pink
tulle stole. Pale apricot cloque taffeta was
Elaine Bear’s choice. Mrs. Gordon de
Lisle’s white linen was coin-spotted in
navy. Dympna O’Collins adopted the
red-rose motif for her emerald-green
taffetas. Mrs. P. L. Coleman’s snuff-
brown tulle gown had a three-tier skirt.
Mrs. Max Mitchell wore a gold-studded
tulle scarf with her black faille gown.
Mrs. Geoff Tolson’s hyacinth-blue
taffeta gown had a matching tulle scarf.
When Elizabeth, elder daughter of
Mr. W. M. England, of St. Kilda, and
the late Mrs. England, was married at
Melbourne Grammar School Chapel she
wore a trained gown of parchment-
toned satin featuring a very full skirt
and a bodice with a deep shawl collar
which formed a low portrait neckline.
The bridegroom’s mother lent the full-
length Honiton lace veil. Attending the
bride were her sister Margaret, Pam
Phillips and the ’groom’s sisters Betty and
Anne Dixon; Jan de Wolff, a cousin of
the bride, was flower-girl. Their gowns
were of self-embossed white organdie
mounted on gold taffeta, and their Juliet
caps were outlined with gold and white
frangipani to match the flowers in their
bouquets. The bridegroom, who is the
younger son of Sir Owen and Lady
Dixon, of Upper Hawthorn, had W.
Bartley as best man and Keith Match and
Dick England for ushers. The reception
was held at 203 Domain-road, South
Yarra.
Tall, slim, auburn-haired Helen
Roberts scored a great success as Mabel
in the beautifully-dressed production of
“The Pirates of Penzance.” Pipe-opener
to the tale of the bold, bad men was
the ever-popular “Trial by Jury,” in
which Muriel Howard, in her white tulle
gown over a crinoline, was the dainty
plaintiff. In the audience were Mrs. Frank
Tait, whose black crepe skirt was topped
with a wide-meshed silk net bodice into
which were woven silver sequins; Mrs.
A. G. Warner, her pale-grey tunic-gown
having silver-bead embroidery trimming;
Mrs. Herbert Pacini, who matched her
turquoise-blue silk jersey gown with a
hip-length jacket; Marjorie Eyre, a
member of the company, who swathed
herself in a royal-blue ring-velvet coat;
Mrs. J. B. Tait, in japonica-pink crepes ;
Mrs. Harry Scojt, who covered her black
gown with a black tulle jacket; her
daughter-in-law, Mrs. Alan Scott, in a
bouffant gown of white chiffon; Mrs.
J Bowen Pain, her black formal skirt
topped with beige lace; and Mrs. Frank
Lee, her dinner gown of cinnamon-brown
crepe.
Always an outstanding fashion figure
at race-meetings, Olive Rosenthal was
quietly married during the week to
Phillip David Phillips, K.C. Olive, who
is the youngest daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Henry Rosenthal, wore a pale mig-
nonette-green linen jacket-suit, which had
a nipped-in waist and flared skirt and a
wide-brimmed matching straw hat. In
the evening relatives and close friends
attended a buffet dinner given by her
parents in their Spring-street flat. Here
the bride wore a black-lace frock, the
finely-pleated skirt made over pale-pink
satin. The bridegroom is the elder son
of the late Mr. and Mrs. M. M. Phillips,
formerly of Melbourne.
A new gallery has been opened in
Bourke-street by Stanley Coe, and artists
are jubilant over the location, for it has a
good north light. Over the buffet-
luncheon served on opening day artists
Phyl Waterhouse and Charles Bush said
their good-byes before leaving for England
in the Otranto. Charles recently won a
British Council grant, but Phyl says she
will have to find a job as soon as she
reaches London; but both will send
pictures back to the Stanley Coe gallery.
Helen Ogilvie becomes manager of the
gallery in the new year. Mrs. Daryl
Lindsay’s ensemble was of cinnamon-
brown crepe, worn with a large black hat
and accessories. Mrs. Vivian Ebbott’s
black suit was topped by a snappy little
natural-straw hat.
At the Melbourne Racing Club’s meet-
ing at Moonee Valley Mrs. C. J. Taylor,
daughter of the club’s president, enter-
tained the Miss Australia Quest finalists
at afternoon tea. The hostess’s frock of
pale-mauve crepe was worn with a match-
ing flower-trimmed hat. Margaret
Hughes, the winner, wore a chocolate-
toned sunray-pleated crepe frock with
natural accessories and a green balli-
buntal-straw hat. Joan Easey, Miss Vic-
toria, had black accessories for her duck-
egg blue crepe suit; her white hat was
feather-trimmed. She also wore the en-
gagement ring that had been given to her
immediately after the finals by Robert
Peake, former R.A.A.F. pilot. Kathleen
Lyne (Miss Tasmania), who has a lovely
peaches-and-cream complexion, was the
most attractively dressed of them all. Her
white silk frock was banded in yellow-
and-black Paisley pattern and worn with
London-tan accessories, and her large
natural-straw hat was loaded with tan
and natural-toned flowers. Barbara
Edwards (Miss South Australia) chose an
oatmeal crepe frock and a gold-buckled
black suede belt; her natural-straw
bonnet was flower-trimmed. The tall,
stately and distinguished Miss Queens-
land, Janice Smith, was frocked in grey
crepe ; her hat was of grey straw and
she finished off with blue accessories.
Mrs. Margaret Saker accompanied the
girls; her attractive beige suit was con-
trasted with a pastel-pink grosgrain off-
the-face hat. Mrs. W, Read-Edwards,
who came from Queensland with Janice
Smith, added a powder-blue straw hat to
her dusty-pink tailored linen frock.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GEORGE ROBERTS. TAKE
NOTICE that ANNE IVY ROBERTS
has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 4173 of 1949 on the grounds of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the First day of March
1950 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from MESSRS. HUNT &
HUNT, Solicitors, of 15 Bligh Street,
Sydney.—(n.s.) J. DOUGHAN, Registrar
in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JACK JARVIS formerly of 104 Glebe
Point Road Glebe Point, —TAKE NOTICE
that MURIEL ALMA JARVIS has filed a
Petition for Divorce against you No. 1278
of 1949 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse during three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Ojßce Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the 28th day of February 1950 and
obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from MESSRS. E. R. TRACEY &
CO., Solicitors, of 81 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney. —(L.s.) J. DOUGHAN, Registrar
in Divorce.
The Australian
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Knitting, Crochet and
Needlecraft
Health Talk, Mothercraft
Serial, Short Stories and
Special Articles
On sale everywhere
Price 3d.
sss»' s ''
*•: n\n\^ nnnnNN
WPffemf/r
,fel
sssss^l
t OQ.
A.W\N»
iv
&
t
s*C-
fx*
fa*
V
\0
i&a
X\
&
"4!
••• ■ /.,.
v^>t N
“' '^K>
S*r *
<S?.
<?1
.Sr;
V*
* • Z&> - 3 •:
TOOTH'S K.B. LASER—Brewed and bottled by
Tooth & Co. Limited. Brewers of good beer since 1835.
SUNDRY SHOWS
The Stratford
Macbeth.
These players from Shak-
speare’s home town must be the
nearest thing to a physical link
between Australia and the poet
since that day of lost oppor-
tunity 344 years ago when
Shakspeare himself ' peered in
this direction and intimated a
curiosity about us through his
creature Rosalind. Alas, we
were unready to seize that cue —
lying as we did a vague, shifting,
Jindyworobak shape at the
bottom of the navigator’s charts,
sans the British Council, sans
D. D. O’Connor, sans Qantas
airways.
This time we have been more
alert. Nothing better illustrates
the craving for culture in this
reputedly extrovert country than
the present large attendances at
Sydney’s Tiyoli at a season of
the year when the Porter’s fan-
tastical list of instructions at
hell-gate have topical point ;
“Have napkins enow about you ;
here you’ll sweat for it.”
Though lacking in film-names
of top stardom, the Stratford
company has well-distributed
talents and undoubted integrity.
What an object - lesson Mr.
Quayle points for Laurence
Olivier by insisting upon a
separate, specially rehearsed per-
formance of the plays for the
broadcasting medium! A far-
flung audience has been royally
served by the splendid radio
“Macbeth,” and waits eagerly to
hear “Much Ado About No-
thing.”
And yet the fact has to be
recorded, however regretfully,
that the stage performance of
“Macbeth” (certainly not of the
other play) has been less than a
complete success. Through a
deficiency in the acting of
the title role by Mr. Quayle him-
self, the same company that
conjured so magnificently over
the air, and can boast such bril-
liant component parts, has failed
to realise what Shakspeare
plainly described as his Tragedy
of Macbeth. In its place we
have, perhaps, the tragedy of
Macduff, or of Lady Macbeth,
or simply a grim, savage tale
signifying nothing.
“Macbeth” is not a problem
play in the way “Hamlet” is, but
it presents at least two chal-
lenges to the modern producer.
The first relates to our different
methods of staging. Shakspeare
wrote this play for performances
by daylight, in a theatre whose
roof was open to the sky. Yet
the setting of his action had to
be almost continual darkness.
He gave himself, for a tour de
force, the job of creating an
illusion of darkness by sheer
power of language. To this we
owe the great series of invoca-
tions and descriptions of night
that range from the lurid and
melodramatic passages e&rly in
the play to mellow poetry at the
close.
These numerous references to
night had an important function
in Shakspeare’s time, but now
there is a danger of their seem-
ing superfluous, long-winded
and repetitious because our
cloths and stage-lights can turn
on night and day at will. While
the broadcaster can take full
advantage of the Shakspearian
music to create his scenery,
the stage-producer has the deli-
cate task of choosing between
instruments that are not easily
harmonised. And his golden
rule should be that with Shak-
speare the language is every-
thing.
The second pitfall Mr. Quayle
had to avoid was the modem
tendency to reduce Macbeth to a
junior partner for his lady. How-
ever relishing Lady Macbeth’s
role may be to the actress, it is
a subsidiary one, and can hardly
be developed to its full possi-
bilities unless the part of the
husband is filled by a person of
unusual tragic stature. That,
unfortunately, is what Mr.
Quayle is not. He gives us a
self-conscious, worried-looking,
immature Macbeth, and, most
amazing of all, he somehow
makes the stage character seem
inarticulate. Lines that were
enunciated in a-confident flow to
the microphone are now too
often muffled and thrown away
in a kind of nervous haste. Mr.
Quayle, the imaginative pro-
ducer, seems to lack the touch
of fanatical self-assurance that
would create an impact for such
a part as Macbeth. He appears
positively embarrassed, for in-
stance, at his tortured mental
vision of a dagger before the
murder of Duncan.
Without a tragic Macbeth —a
man pushed beyond the limits of
his own scruples by witchcraft
and an ambitious wife, and
forced to follow the terrible logic
of his chosen course until all
feeling is blunted and he meets
death like a savage animal—
there can be no really convincing
play.
Still, there are many incidental
excellences in the Stratford pro-
duction. Diana Wynyard, a
comprehending Lady Macbeth,
develops the part brilliantly,
frpm her first deliberate but im-
possible resolution to “unsex”
herself to the final nervous dis-
integration. The note of falsity
she strikes in the speech welcom-
ing Duncan to her castle, the
pointed purpose she conveys in
the fainting fit after his murder,
the contrast between her private
dejection in soliloquy and the
shrill exhortations to Macbeth
and the last sleepwalking scene
are all completely satisfying.
Clement McCallin, who played
Macduff last Friday night,
brought both a voice and a
presence to the role, vivified
every scene in which he appeared
and built for his part a greater
stature than Macbeth’s. The
difficult role of Malcolm was
well handled by John Payne, but
in view of Mr. Quayle’s non-
tragic conception of this play it
is surprising that he has excised
from Malcolm’s closing speech
one line which (though intended
ironically by Shakpeare) did
accurately sum up the leading
character of the play as he
appears at the Tivoli:
this dead butcher and his
fiend-like queen.
It remains to be said that the
Stratford tour has more than
justified itself by the production
of “Much Ado” and the broad-
casts. May the company return,
bringing Rosalind herself, per-
haps, to make that long-projected
voyage into her “South-sea of
discovery.”
"The Messiah."
The appearance on the
rostrum of Australia’s leading
Handel authority, Dr. Robert
Dalley-Scarlett, was the chief
interest in this year’s Brisbane
performance of “The Messiah.”
The orchestra sat up and gave
noble support to the great
choruses, which volleyed and
thundered under the precise
control of an old master of
choral singing. His knowledge
and’ understanding of the work
made it shine like a new penny.
Fortunately, “The Messiah”
does not call for musical techni-
color, so it did not matter that
none of the soloists had voices
that were either powerful or
particularly colorful. Outstand-
ing were Perth soprano Lorna
McKean and Sydney contralto
Heather Kinnaird.
* * * *
Melbourne’s first Christmas
issue of “The Messiah” came
from the Zelman Memorial
Orchestra and the combined
choirs of Malvern and Caulfield,
at Melbourne Town Hall.
Herbert Davis waved his baton
over the assembly, and extracted
much loveliness from the softer
passages, though the two choirs
hardly rose to the full height of
Handel’s stature in the “Halle-
lujah” chorus and “For Unto Us
a Child Is Born.” The latter
sounded a very ordinary occur-
rence. The Pastoral Symphony
was beautifully rendered, and
soloists Alice Halifax, soprano,
tenor Desmond Worthington
and contralto Lois Peters were
reasonably colorful. Leslie Cox
gave richness and drama to the
bass role.
Bach Cantata.
There is one thing particularly
which the North Shore Choral
Society can do well, and that is
to sing Bach. Last week, with
the North Shore Symphony
Orchestra under the baton of
Alan Bellhouse, it tackled the
English version of the Cantata
No. 206, a work liberally
studded with choral difficulties
as well as some exacting pas-
sages for the solo voices. In
the main these were overcome,
the standard falling slightly only
in a few half-voice passages by
the choir. Where full volume
was called for the tone-weight
and quality were of good
standard, and the singing
achieved at times a rich and
joyous ebullience, so essentially
a characteristic of such a" work.
Mr. Bellhouse succeeded in
throttling back his eager orches-
tral forces so as not to drown
the soloists—Thelma Wilcox,
Edna Duesbury and Noel
Warren —who, if not exactly
singing with abandon, brought
meticulous pitch, admirable
enunciation and good middle-
register work to their perform-
ances.
Mozart’s “Eine Kleine Nacht-
music” found some of the lower
strings rather heavy of hand in
the march-like opening allegro,
though the decorative trills
which embellish the principal
theme were handled nicely.
This charming serenade could
well bear repetition by the
orchestra after another re-
hearsal or two had endowed it
with a defter, more light-hearted
touch. A group of Czechoslo-
vakian Christmas carols and
another hearing of Cyril Jen-
kins’s attractive little ballad,
“Young Lochinvar,” were also
given.
"The Family Reunion."
T. S. Eliot’s “The Waste
Land” was recited at Melbourne
University Union Theatre re-
cently, and now this play comes
at the hands of the Tin Alley
Players as a sort of dramatisa-
tion of the poem. It has the
same sombre quality as his
poetry, and the Monchensey
family, of Wishwood, are ani-
mated symbols of the sentiments
of the poem.
Dowager Lady Monchensey
is the dominating mother and
Lord Monchensey is the son
dogged by an ill conscience who
returns to a home torn by
jealousies and hatreds and over-
shadowed by its past crimes, to
which his Lordship has added
one. He has pushed the wife he
doesn’t like off a steamer in a
storm. This painful revelation
comes in the course of family
quarrels over trifles, and is
promptly evaded like all the
others, and his Lordship’s
emotional stress is put down to
illness and the family doctor
called in. His futile endeavors
to diagnose the son’s condition
only add to the confusion, but
Aunt Agatha cdmes in and pro-
ceeds to analyse the situation by
showing him how his conduct
has been influenced by the
emotional experiences of his
childhood,
Agatha, it appears, has been
the occasion of sin when she
made off with his Lordship’s
father. Colonel the Hon.
Gerald Piper, the Hon. Charles
Piper, brothers of the dowager’s
late husband. Ivy and Violet,
her sisters, and the rest of the
agitated symbols become more
confused than ever. Nobody
understands their own feelings
or the feelings of anybody else,
and the bones rattle and the rats
gnaw and the wind whispers
dryly as in “The Waste Land.”
Eliot sang of his disbelief in that
poem of hopelessness and
despair and disillusion which
was a picture of the bleakness
of his own times. In the play
he has found a way out. The
Three Furies turn up, not as the
dread Eumenides but as the
Bright Angels, whom his Lord-
ship must follow because they
point the way to expiation. He
must become a missionary and
devote his life to service.
Every respect is due to Mr.
Eliot for his poet’s ability to
conjure up horrific pictures and
to make ignorance and stupidity
look almost lovely, and there is
nothing wrong with his depic-
tion, but any Salvation Army
officer could have provided his
solution. Coming in at the end
of what amounts to an unbe-
lievably complicated philosophi-
cal and psychological disquisi-
tion, it had all the appearance
of an awful anticlimax and
made the earlier proceedings
seem extraordinarily like melo-
drama. It is, perhaps, better for
poets to remain poets and not go
in for explanation.
The play, however, was ex-
ceedingly well acted except for
some awkwardnesses in the
minor ranks of symbols ; in fact,
it would be difficult to imagine
it acted better. Jean Lawson as
the dowager lady, Stanley Lowe
as the son afflicted with a con-
flict, William Scott as his
chauffeur and Peggy Tellick as
the analysing Aunt Agatha were
particularly effective, and the
chorus of minor symbols with
their comic interpolations was
a difficult device well put over.
In a queer sort of way the play
even seemed, to live in places.


RODEO
MORNING
BY J.BALFOUR BROWN
JT\ LL the way in from the twelve-mile
gate Tommy kept his horse
|at a trot —a swinging, lumbering,
saddle-banging half-draught's trot.
He made the horse keep it up for a
number of reasons. He didn’t like riding
a half-draught, any half-draught, longer
than he had to. A dumper was a
Chinaman’s horse, a pack animal, some-
thing a self-respecting stockman never
rode. This "particular dumper was
rougher than most. Then, too, he was
the only man working on the station on
this morning. That didn’t make him
any happier either. And if Baldy couldn’t
trot along a bit faster he would be late
for the rodeo in town in the afternoon.
TOMMY was fifteen. When you’re
f fifteen, and a ringer, a rodeo in
town can be a pretty important event.
From the homestead-paddock he rode
straight up to the men’s quarters. He
slipped to the ground and tied the half-
draught to the corner veranda-post.
Only old Elliot, the cowboy, was inside.
He wasn’t old, only about 40. But he
was the cowboy, the odd-job man who
milked the cows once a day, dug the
vegetable-garden once every three days
or four, and did the killing once a week.
Because he did these things he was “old”
Elliot.
“I’ll want y’r horse,” said Elliot, “f run
the cows up this evenin’. Only thing in
is your black filly and I ain’t ridin’ her.”
“Anything left to eat?”
“There’s stoo on the stove,”
“Not bad. Where’s Possum and that
chestnut thing?”
“Dunno. They ain’t in the paddock.
Boys couldn’t find ’em this mornin’.
They must ’ave got out through the fence
over the crick.”
Elliot spat.
“Hell! and I suppose the silly s left
the filly in the yard all by herself. Just
their form. They took Mack in?”
Mack was Tommy’s camp horse. With
Mack he had a good chance of winning
the novice cattle-draft at the rodeo.
Mack was the most important thing he
had. A man in Scone had offered him
£4O for Mack. He had already won £27
in place-money with the big five-year-old.
Elliot said that the boys had taken
Mack in. He shambled out through the
low doorway of the hut and unhitched
the half-draught from the piece of No. 8
wire wound round the veranda-
post. There was no step up from the
ground to the veranda, and the horse was
standing with his neck and head under
the iron roof.
“I’ll leave y’r saddle up at the yard for
y’, Tommy,” called Elliot.
“O.K. Will you be going in yourself
when the mail-truck goes in?”
“Might,” said Elliot as he swung him-
self into the saddle.
“Doan’ go much on
rodeos, though; and,
any rate, it’s all just
about over by the
time the truck gets
there. I dunno. I
reckon you young
blokes is all rodeo mad.
Y’ll break y’r necks if
y’re not careful. Y’ think y’re all bloody
cowboys.”
He meant the Gene Autry kind. Not
his own.
IT took Tommy about eight minutes to
' finish off the jstew, have a quick wash
and put on clean white jodhpurs, a new
pair of elastic-sided boots (kept specially
for this rodeo) and a fresh shirt. He wore
a collar and a red tie.
Despite Elliot’s remarks there wasn’t
much flashness about Tommy, His
weakness was his spurs. They were an
inch wide and held loosely with one strap
so that they dragged in the dust when he
walked.
Elliot had changed the saddle and bridle
on the half-draught for his own and had
left Tommy’s gear on the stockyard-fence.
The black filly was chewing the corner
of the saddle-bag. She heard Tommy
coming and threw her head up and
watched him. When he put his leg
over the rail and moved towards her she
turned and trotted past him to the far
corner.
He hadn’t meant to ride the black
filly into town. She was only half
broken-in. He had meant to ride Possum.
But Possum was over the creek.
If he couldn’t lead Mack home from
the filly then one of the boys would have
to do it. It was their fault, anyway. If
the truth were known mad Eric had
probably galloped Possum and the chest-
nut through the fence when he was
running them up.
Tommy slipped off the filly’s headstall
and replaced it with the bridle. He made
her wear the headstall all the time she
was in the paddock. It let him catch her
more easily. He saddled her and led her
into the middle of the yard. He lifted
the flap and tightened his girth two-holes.
He left the surcingle loose. Then he put
his left foot in the stirrup and swung him-
self up.
She threw him hard.
He had almost had time to get into the
saddle before she plunged away. He
hadn’t had time to get his right foot in
its stirrup. He had stabbed for the
stirrup and missed.
HE was on hia chest in the dust;
winded, and too dazed to move.
When he heard the mare’s hooves thud-
ding, and felt the sheep dust clogging his
mouth and nose, stinging like acid, and
the pain above his stomach as he fought
for breath. He pushed himself to his feet.
He must catch the mare.
“Always grab your horse straight after
he’s thrown you,” they said. But Tommy
had been too long on the ground for that.
A really bad horse would have had time
to savage him.
Had he not been a true horseman, he
would have grabbed a whip, a stick, an
iron pipe or anything handy. And he
would have thrashed the mare from one
end of the yard to the other. It was
more than just being thrown that got him.
It was being thrown through his own
carelessness ; in his clean clotheswhen
he was already late for the rodeo.
Tommy pushed himself on to the top
rail of the yard and hooked his heels in
the second-bottom rung. He rolled a
cigarette, slowly with both hands, for he
had not yet acquired the bushman’s
deftness. He struck the match on the
sole of his boot. He would give the mare
time to settle down.
The wax-match flared, and the mare
jumped. She had been standing, quietly
now, in the far corner of the yard. When
she saw the match flare she wheeled and
ran, holding her head to
one side, along the far
fence.
Then she stood with
her flank pressed hard
against the rails. She
watched the boy. Her
ears twitched and she
held her head high.
She watched him and
she blew the air through her nostrils in
great rushes.
“Green,” said the boy. “Green as
bloody grass. Or else not a brain in her
head.”
He threw the half-finished cigarette
away.
L_J E knew now why she had thrown
* A him and what he would have to do.
She was unsettled because she had been
locked up in the yard by herself all
morning. She wasn’t used to being away
from other horses. He had saddled her
in the low yard instead of the round
breaking-in yard. He had made a rush
job of it.
It was his own fault. He told himself
that. His own fault and the boss’s fault.
The boss’s for sending him out before
daylight on a rodeo day with a mob of
ewes for the twelve-mile. Ewes, the
slowest things to travel there were.
And the saddle-cloth had been wet and
cold from the half-draught. That was it.
He should have known that. He’d caught
the filly easily enough ; she wasn’t a bad
horse, only green. With a mare ridden
out only three or four times you just
couldn’t afford to risk things, even if you
did do the breaking-in yourself.
“All right, Blackie,” he said, and
pushed himself off the fence and walked
towards her. “You think you’ll have a go,
do you? We’ll see about that!”
HE was five yards from her now, and
still she stood motionless, her head
high and eyes watching the boy’s every
movement. But she was tensed, ready to
jump.
He came another step, and they jtimped
together. She careered three times round
the yard before he could block her in a
corner. The saddle was loose. It slipped
back and down and it thumped against
her with each bound she took.
He got behind her, his arms raised,
keeping her in the
corner. When she went
to go one way along
the fence he ran two or
three steps and blocked
her again. The mare
could have charged
straight through him ;
but she had learned
enough respect for man
not to do that. She wanted to escape,
not to attack. To move her across so that
he could approach her from the near
side took time. He had to walk to
within a foot or so of her hind-feet and
startle her just enough to swing her across
on to the other fence.
When she was standing quietly he
walked slowly straight up to her. He
reached out with his hand and with his
knuckle rubbed her shoulder. The reins
were lying loose and he could have
caught them up easily. But that wasn’t
the way he had taught her to be caught.
“Steady, girl,” he said. “Steady the
little mare, steady the pony.”
He was watching her feet, not her head,
and he moved his left hand gradually up
the quivering neck until he reached the
throat. Then he slipped his arm under
her neck and came in close. His shoulder
was under her neck and he was facing
towards her rump. She leaned back,
ready to pull away from her human
collar; but Tommy’s right hand on her
shoulder reassured her.
Now with his right hand he reached
out and jerked the saddle and its cloth
forward to where it had been before she
had thrown him. The cloth was warm
and sticky.
He was taking a risk, but he wanted to
see just how much she had forgotten.
She quivered when he pulled -it for-
ward, but he soothed her and, satisfied
that she was under control, released
his hold on her neck, picked up the reins
and turned his back. Then he walked to
the gate. She followed.
Tommy grinned. It had taken him
hours to teach the mare to lead.
LJ E took her into the round breaking-
-1 1 in yard, eight rungs high and built
so that a man could ride a bad horse
without danger of going over the fence.
He knew now that he would have to
take the buck out of her. He should
have done it before. The thought of
missing the rodeo he pushed out of his
mind.
She was a station mare, the property of
the boss, but she had been given him to
break-in and use as his own as long as
he worked for the boss. He had done a
good job breaking her to stand, lead and
submit quietly to the saddle. But he had
been too easy riding her.
He closed the heavy gate of the round
yard and led the mare into the middle.
Slowly he lifted the reins over her head.
She pricked her ears and almost ducked
her head to let him pass the reins over.
This time there was no hurry. He
tightened the surcingle and tested his
weight on the stirrup. He whacked the
seat of the saddle with his free hand.
Just to do the thing properly he picked
up both her front feet. She was shod in
front only, and she lifted her feet quickly ;
but she wouldn’t hold up for more than
a few seconds. When he lifted himself
into the saddle she stood stock-still. She
was splayed out and bewildered.
THEN he hit her with everything he
had. She jerked forward a few steps
and put her head down. She humped
her back and she bucked.
He felt her bunch-up under the saddle,
thrusting with all her power upwards and
out. He felt her come right up in the
buck. He wasn’t riding a horse any more
but only a madly plunging saddle. He
rode the buck and then he rowelled her
and she went up again.
The mare bucked in great gasping
bounds. It was something new to her.
She did it awkwardly and with little
science. She hurled
herself straight ahead
and the grim boy stuck
with her.
This was no rodeo
turn. He wasn’t mak-
ing it look pretty. He
was gripping the
monkey-strap of his
saddle with his right
hand and he wasn’t, swinging his
heels from “hip to shoulder.” But he
gave her enough rein to keep her head
down. He wanted her to buck herself
out.
She was only a baby and she showed
it. She couldn’t get rid of him by buck-
ing, so she let her hind-legs go and flopped
down like a dog. Then she started to go
over in an effort to roll him off.
Tommy got off. He let the reins go,
and ran to her head. He grabbed the
bridle near the bit and hauled her up.
She got about half-way and then started
to go down again. He ran behind her,
pounding her with his open hand, until
she scrambled to her feet.
Then he jumped, quickly this time, into
the saddle.
It was her final effort. She was beaten
and she was too tired to manage anything
better than a few half-hearted pig-
roots.
He rode her out, and when she was too
exhausted to root he rode her hard round
the yard. He took her one way; then
reversed and took her the other. He
took her to the middle of the yard, dis-
mounted, and mounted again. He rushed
her at the fence and pulled her up with
a jerk.
By then he was exhausted himself.
J T was six miles into town and the cattle-
-1 draft started three-thirty. It didn’t
matter about the rest; but the cattle-draft
was what he had been training Mack for.
He had about an hour, and he couldn’t
ask much of the black filly. By rights she
had had enough for one day already.
But she was big for her three years and
she was on feed. He would push her
along where the going was easy.
He walked her down to the men’s
quarters, picked up a rope halter hanging
on the sagging fence, and slipped it over
the bridle. He knotted the loose end
round the mare’s neck. He would use it
to tie her up securely in the sports-
ground.
Down the sandy track to the road he
put her at a hand gallop. He leaned
forward, standing on his stirrups, and
held her up short.
When he said “Come on, Blackie,
Blackie! ” her mane was whipping in his
face.
Blackie pricked her ears and, wide-eyed
and gulping at the bit, raised the white
dust behind her.
Dullard.
“The circle is primordial,” he said.
Flat, in a class-room, as a talking disk
Plays drag-leg to a standstill.
It is primordial, then ! But all I know
Is that the soup is brimming in a bowl
And swirling specks of fat are gold, are
moons ;
And lily leaves are strong in the dark
stream
To make a crossing for swift-stepping
winds.
Above this mirror, this black, secret
pool; •
A stone will fill it up with dancing
moons,
And break the spell of stillness.
VICTORIA.
MARY FINNIN.


AROD FOR FISHING WITH
BY PETER BARKER,
JAMIE sat on his stool at the kitchen-
table, and licked the traces of jam
from the corners of his mouth. His
mother was at the sink by the fire-
place, setting in order the dishes from
breakfast. Soon, she carried the big
black kettle from the stove, and, filling
the sink, began to wash the dishes.
Jamie watched the steam rise from the
sink until she called:
“Corpe on, Jay-bird. You ain’t goin’ to
fly away before the dishes this morning.”
He was silent for a while as he dried the
warm plates. There was something he
wanted to do. He planned it all the week.
“ ’Ave y’ got any bones, Mum? C’n I
have some meat off’ve ’em?”
“What for?”
“Yabbyin’.”
“I’ll have a look when we’ve finished
the dishes. Where you going?”
“Jus’ down to Gingham corner. In
the mud channel.”
“You be careful.”
Jamie was silent, but his toes wriggled
against the straps of his sandals.
WHEN they had finished, his mother
went to the ice-chest, wiping her
hands on her apron.
She took a big plate
from the bottom, and
put it on the table.
Jamie touched the cold
skin of the leg of lamb
as she went for a knife.
He thought how clean
the pale red flesh
looked. His mother cut
the knuckle from the
meat, and wrapped it in a piece of news-
paper.
“Got a knife?”
“M’m.”
“Cotton?”
He nodded, and put the parcel of meat
inside his shirt.
“Don’t you be late for dinner, now,”
his mother said as he let the kitchen-door
swing shut behind him.
“No, Mum,” he shouted.
He went across the back porch to the
washhouse. The sun shone through the
vine-leaves on the trellis above, making
bright patches on the crazy paving. He
stepped over the basket of washing in the
door of the washhouse, and crawled
beneath the sink. Leaning against the
wall was a small net, made from wire-
netting and fencing-wire. Behind it was
a round tobacco-tin. He took them out
into the sun, and opened the tin. There
was a small pen-knife and a cotton-reel in-
side. Satisfied, he put net, tin, and the
parcel of meat into a dip-tin, and was
ready.
He went out across the drying-green,
and between the racks. His father was
at the‘dip at the end of the racks. Jamie
watched while he cranked the handle of
the dip-crane and lifted the tray of grapes
from the cart. His father turned the
arm of the crane around so that the tray
swung over the dip. He let the tray down
slowly. The 'white, soapy water gurgled
up through the holes in the dip-tins and
about the bright green fruit.
“Where you off to?” said his father.
“Down to Gingham, yabbyin’.”
“The Doc. and me’re goin’ fishin’
tomorrer. We’ll want some bait. Give
you sixpence a dozen.”
Jamie frowned.
“What’s up, somebody else want
them?”
Jamie decided suddenly, and smiled.
“O.K. How many d’you want?”
“Aw, about six dozen.”
“I’ll try.”
JAMIE walked over the channel
bridge and down to the vines.
“Cheerio,” his father called ; “ ’bye,” he
yelled back. He went into the row be-
tween two vines. The two plough-tracks
stretched crookedly down between the
leaves to the end of the row. The bottoms
of the plough-furrows were smooth and
flat where the water had run down, but
outside that the red soil was broken up
into big, irregular clods.
He went down the row, the soil
running into his sandals. He swung his
dip-tin against the heavy bunches of
grapes. He picked a small bunch, and
ate them before he reached the fence at
the end of the block. He climbed
through the fence, and walked through
the grassy seepage to the road.
The road was very white against the
bright green of the vines. He scuffed at
the gravel with his sandals, and the white
gravel-dust rose in front of his feet. He
walked down the long stretch to the main
road, and turned to the right. He walked
at the edge of the metal, and
kicked the small blue stones in front of
him. Now and then a car passed him,
and occasionally a truck with sweat-
boxes full of fruit.
A S he came up to the
channel, he saw
that the water was low,
and that a foot of
spongy mud showed at
each side. He put his
dip-tin down beside the
concrete culvert, and
took out the small tin.
He unwrapped the meat, and cut
it from the bone and into small
pieces with the knife from the tin. He
broke off some lengths of cotton, and
tied a piece of meat to one end of each
length.
He took the wire-net and baited lines,
and climbed down the bank of the
channel. He walked along, away from the
road, and at small intervals threw the
meat into the water, tying the other end
of the cotton to tufts of spear-grass.
When all the lines were gone, he sat down
on the bank at the edge of the water, and,
taking off his sandals, dabbled his feet in
the water.
Away to his right, the channel curved
round out of sight amongst some trees.
There were dark green Mallee-pines, and
big, grey belars, and a few leafy cedar-
trees. It always looked greener there, and
the water cooler. He thought that he
would follow the channel around there
some day.
He looked back towards the road.
Some of his cotton lines stood straight
out from their grass
tufts, and some hung
limply in the water.
He went to the first taut
line. He dipped the
wire-net slowly be-
neath the water with
one hand, and with the •
other gently drew in
the cotton. He felt
the jerking of the yabby
on the line. The meat came floating up
through the yellow water, and beneath it
he could see the big green claws and the
small tubular body. Gently he moved the
net beneath, and suddenly lifted it, up-
wards and out of the water. Flap, flap
went the yabby in the net, beating its tail
against its body. He picked it up, holding
it just behind the head, where the claws
could not reach, and looked at it.
Beneath the green-shelled back, the white,
segmented under-surface of the tail bore
a row of black eggs.
Jamie climbed to the
top of the bank, and
ran along to the culvert.
He dropped the yabby
into the dip-tin. Its
claws made a scraping
sound against the tin as
it tried to climb out.
Jamie took the tin back
with him, and went
along the row of lines.
Soon his tin was full
of yabbies. He watched
the mass of green bodies
and claws. One big one
held a smaller one up in the air
by a claw. As he watched, the
smaller one fell, and the other was
left holding the severed claw, Jamie
pulled some green grass from the bank,
threw it into the tin, and. then dipped the
tin in the water. Then he sat for a
while, squeezing the mud between his
toes, and feeling the warmth of the sun
on his head.
HIS mother was just calling his
father to dinner as Jamie ran across
the drying-green. He
dropped the dip-tin by
the tank, and turned on
the tap. The water ran
through the holes in the
tin. It soaked into the
ground about the
bottom of the bucket.
The yabbies stirred,
and clawed against the
tin. Jamie washed his
hands and face in the water from the
tank, and went inside.
His mother was at the stove, mashing
potatoes in a saucepan. The fork scrap-
ing against the metal sounded like the
yabbies in the dip-tin.
“Did y’ get many, Jay-bird?”
“M’m, ’bout seven dozen. They was
bitin’ like anythin’.”
His mother served out the potato, and
brought over his plate. His father came
in and sat down, as Jamie started to eat.
“Good crop this year,” said his father.
“We’re making four buckets to the vine.
By gum, these pickers ’re keepin’ me goin’.
Takes me all me time t’ keep up t’ them
with the empties.”
Jamie waited until his father was eat-
ing.
“Dad. I got y’ six dozen.”
“Good on y’. Where’ve y’ put ’em?”
“They’re just in a dip-tin now. I’ll put
em in the copper.”
“If you leave those things in my copper
until they die and smell the place out
again, you won’t go yabbyin’ any more,
Jamie.”
“Dad’s taking ’em tomorrer, Mum.”
They ate in silence for a while, then
Jamie asked casually:
“Dad, c’n I take one of the fishin’-lines
this arvo?”
“Yep. Y’ c’n ’ave that one on the
cork. But don’t take any o’ the gut, or
I’ll kick the pants off y\”
“C’n, I have a two-hooker?”
“Y’ c’n put another hook onta that’un.”
Jamiq was pleased, and finished his
dinner quickly.
“Don’t you go near the cliffs,” said his
mother as he went out to the garage.
“No, Mum,” he called back. He felt
bad about lying, but
thought that, anyway,
this was different. To-
day was important.
HE pulled out the big
box from beneath
the garage bench. It
was covered with oily
dust, which smudged
his fingers as he lifted
the lid.. He put aside the big reels of the
cross-line and spinner and took the
flat roll of green line on the
cork from amongst the lines on
the bottom. His father’s rod was on
one side. He turned the reel a few times
before he took another hook and snare
for his line from the flat yellow tobacco-
tin.
He came out from the darkness of the
garage and squinted in the glare of the
sun. He walked around the outside of
the porch trellis, and between the orange-
trees to the tank-stand. He took the dip-
tin into the washhouse, filled the copper
with water, and tipped in most of the
yabbies. They flipped themselves back-
wards with their tails into the darkness
at the bottom. The others he put into
an old army pack that was hanging by the
door, with the fishing-line,
Jamie came out past the last block be-
fore the river. Leaving the road, he
walked across the headland. The earth
here was very flat, between the islanded
clumps of spear-grass, dried white by the
sun. His feet made no impression on the
baked red clay. He walked through the
Mallee-gums, thin writhing boughs that
arose directly from the ground. Tendrils
of bark hanging down scraped against
his shoulders. He saw the edge of the
cliff ahead, falling away to nothingness
beyond. As he came closer, the blue-grey
horizon of the other side of the river
edged itself into sight. Soon he was at
the edge, and looked down the rough red
sandstone cliffs to the water. The sun was
behind him, and shaded the cliffs and
half the width of the river. In the shade
the water was a dark
greyish-green, and held
shimmering reflections
of the gullied cliffs and
the trees. In the sun-
light the water was an
opaque, muddy yellow.
Jamie walked along
to the right. Here
a large gully ran back
from the water, branch-
ing to smaller clefts and fissures.
He,climbed down into a small crevice,
and followed the dry floor. The walls
about him grew higher, and changed
color from red to white and yellow, and
back again. Down in the main gully the
floor was covered with short spiky grass
that broke under his feet as he walked.
Just by the river a big grey ghosfr-fum
reached its thin white fingers almost to
the top of the cliff.
He went down to the water’s edge, and
turned to the right. He walked along the
edge of the water, where a thin strip of
white sand fringed the red sandstone. For
a little way out from the edge, the
crenellated water-hyacinth leaves made
flat patterns on the water. Closer in
were a few patches of reeds, straight
yellow-green blades waving in the slight
breeze. He climbed up the cliff a little
way to pass a fallen tree that lay half in
the water. The tangled bare roots held
crumbling pieces of clay. On the other
side of this tree the river curved round
sharply, and the water was very still and
dark.
Jamie put down his bag, and took out
the line. He unwound the cord into
loops on the ground. Choosing a yabby
from the bag, he held it behind the claws,
and ran one of the hooks through the
soft tail. The small legs waved im-
potently, and the tail flapped. He baited
the other hook, and then threw the line
out to the deepest part, just by the big
snag. He settled himself on the thin strip
of sand, and waited. The lonely cry of a
parrot floated down from the top of the
cliff, and from across the river a cowbell
echoed back into the gullies. The shadow
of the cliff crept slowly out across the
river.
'T'HEY heard him call as he ran up
i through the racks. His mother said :
“I’ll bet he’s got a fish, Jim.”
They went outside, and across to the
gate in the trellis. They saw Jamie
silhouetted against the deep orange of the
horizon. His white shirt bobbed through
the purple velvet half-light amongst the
orange-trees.
“Mum! Mum! I caught a beauty!” he
panted.
Soon he was jigging and puffing in
front of them.
“It was big’s me. I couldn’t lift im
out’ve the water.” .
“What’ve y’ done with ’im?” said his
father. „
“I tethered ’im to a big snag.
“Fix ’im right?”
“M’m. Like you showed me.”
“Well, come and have tea, anyway,”
said his mother. “Go and wash, Jamie.”
(Continued on page 32.)


ë
In
tins of 20
3/.
There are times which
call for something better
r than the merely very
good, and demand the
unquestionable best.
Where cigarettes are concerned
the man of taste is guided by
the words “ Benson & Hedges,
Old Bond Street, London 99
—for all those occasions
when only the best will do.
BY APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS TO
HIS MAJESTY THE KING
SUPER VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
BY
LTI
OLD BOND STREET, LONDON
"ROBINSON CRUSOE"
THE
PERFECT
GIFT
• FOR A YOUNG SON, GRAND-
SON OR NEPHEW
« FOR SCHOLASTIC SUCCESS
• FOR FRIENDS OVERSEAS
• FOR ANY LOVER OF A GOOD
BOOK
Size 12%" x 10". Cover In pleasing
green cloth, printed In 6 colours
and Gold. Ten glorious full-colour
plates by William Bustard, famed
Australian Water Colourist,
PRICE £2/2/-
Post Free
Order a copy to-day from
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LB).
Sydney
MYERS EMPORIUM
Melbourne
ANY QUEENSLAND
BOOKSTORE
A Jackson
& O’Sullivan
Publication
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L, Barrere
brings to rupture sufferers an entirely
new method of control, the result of
40 years’' practice and improvements,
proved completely successful by all
who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the
hand when placed flat upon the
orifice. You will at once, without
effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BABBERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 265), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
THE SERVICE MAN
The Colombo
Conference.
One of the most important
conferences yet to be held in the
Asian zone is the British Com-
monwealth Foreign Affairs con-
ference, to take place at
Colombo on January 9, about
the time when India becomes a
republic. Mr. Bevin will come
from England to be present. Mr.
Malcolm MacDonald, Commis-
sioner-Genera] for S.-East Asia,
will also be there. Canada will
be represented by Mr. Pearson,
Secretary for External Affairs.
So far the conference has
scarcely been mentioned in Aus-
tralia, Dr. Evatt apparently hav-
ing been too busy trying to kill
compulsory training, while con-
centrating otherwise on his pro-
posal to take over control of
Jerusalem which is causing so
much embarrassment to U.N.O.
It has been more important to
him to organise defence against
Mrs. Wake than against Asian
Coinmunism.
However, it is now announced
that an Australian Minister or
two will go to the conference, a
decision which has been received
with relief in other quarters.
Until recently, according to Mr.
Denis Warner in Singapore,
approaches by Mr. Malcolm
MacDonald were “either rejected
or ignored,” despite continual
warnings by Australian represen-
tatives in Asia of “the mounting
dangers to Australian security
arising from the ostrich policy
of disinterest and Mr. Calwell’s
racial antagonisms.”
The whole of Australia’s policy
in S.-East Asia needs recon-
sideration. It is now a main
danger-spqt, and one measure
which undoubtedly should
operate soon is the appointment
of Australian military or service
attaches wherever there is a
British or Australian mission to
attach one to.
The changing circumstances of
China and other countries under
Communist control or influence
call for perpetual and earnest
study.
Modern Training.
“Ek Dum”: The Menzies
Government is in power with
a pledge to introduce compul-
sory military training. It will
be wise if it does not delay in
forming its plan and putting it
into effect.
The existing scheme is mori-
bund. The just-defeated Gov-
ernment never intended that it
should be anything else. And it
will never be anything else
under any Government which
does not apply some imagination
to the task of organising the
Citizen Forces on a basis which
will not only make men train
but make them like to train.
Anybody who goes into the
Citizen Forces from choice as
they are at present constituted is
a real patriot—and an optimist
into the bargain save in some
technical units.
The core needed for a uni-
versal-training scheme seems to
be at least one good modernised
division equipped with the latest
arms, the latest transport,
efficient air-cover and general
facilities —to be self-contained
and self-carried and with its
brigades individually in the
same condition. This divi-
sion should be the pattern and
the exemplar which acts, either
as a whole or in its parts, to set
the pace and the methods for
the civilian soldiery. The aim
should be to use this division and
its ingredients to provide demon-
stration and set the general style
of training. The more the parts
move and the more patterns in
which they move the more
efficient this body of troops and
“Now readem small-fella."
its ancillaries will become, since
in process of continual operation
it must become very highly
skilled and of very high morale.
The second ingredient in a
training scheme is that the
civilian citizen units should be
on a territorial basis organised
to make each battalion a
closely-knit sampling of its
neighborhood. Each should be
linked with some famous unit
with a war record, and those
that care should be permitted to
go into liaison as now with
British regiments. State rivalry
and town rivalry are spurs to
competition, and competition is
an important factor in training.
It should be organised from the
ground upwards not merely in
martial exercises but in sport.
The development of annual
tattoos and tournaments is im-
portant.
While the word “universal” is
applied theoretically to the com-
pulsory training, it is obviously
beyond the resource of the
country to train every young
man—and woman, since women
will play an even more im-
portant part in the next war
than in the last —to a state of
efficiency demanded by con-
temporary conditions.
It is probably possible to
teach rudiments to all through
the cadet corps and to encourage
a love of military training in the
schools. Beyond that stage for
some time to come it will not be
feasible, if the scheme is to aim
for maximum efficiency, to train
more than a small proportion of
the total available material.
The aim might well be to keep
in being always a large number
of youngsters coming forward
from the schools who have had
the rough edges brushed oft
them, who know how to fall-in
and carry out medium drill, who
know which end of a rifle the
bullet comes out of and how to
tell a Fiat from a Bazooka, men
who have become aware that
when a dive-bomber appears you
do not usually stand up and wave
to it.
The stage beyond that might
be devoted to the production of
crack, hard, limited units, at
first officer and non - com.
material capable of training and
commanding large numbers
quickly when emergency arises.
All the material which is
absorbed should be trained fully
and with modern weapons and
under proper conditions. And
this can be done only by long
stretches in camp under skilled
officers with battle experience,
and with the knack of conveying
to their troops the fact that the
essential difference in result in
actual warfare between the man
who knows his job and the man
who doesn’t is that the first
comes home alive and the second
often in pieces, if at all.
The essence of training is that
it should not be routine, that it
should be an insistent challenge
at all fimes to those engaged to
use their wits, to imagine that
they are in combat or under
combat conditions, and that
there is something to win
through efficient work.
The local link will need to be
used to the limit. The essential
background to this is surround-
ings which give the trainees the
sense that they own something
which is worth effort and spit-
and-polish, and that there is
everything to be gained in per-
sonal prestige from membership
of the local forces.
Scattered round the suburbs or
the big cities the various train-
ing h.q. should cease to be mere
dreary areas covered in dirty
asphalt or mud decorated with
a rough weatherboard humpy or
shed like a disused quarantine-
station.
A parade-ground with a decent
hall, organised on armory lines
to carry trophies, colors and the
amenities of social life-
gymnasium, showers and faci-
lities for entertainment as well
as for military purposes —are
essential. The local drill-ground,
in fact, should be a social centre
for the district with the means of
enlisting the pride of the district
in its progress and development.
To run it calls for a permanent
area-officer of a special type with
a good local staff and a civic
committee. There is no reason
why it should not be as attrac-
tive as the local golf-club or
bowling-green.
For larger exercises there
should be sufficient transport
always available to move


For Accuracy _
and Distinction
LA VINA
Watches
S
&
17
Jewelled
Swiss Masterpieces
with NON-MAGNETIC
ESCAPEMENT
lAvim
WATCHES
Founded in 1852 -,
L VILLERET, SUISSE _I
ē
ĕ
ė
ę
Let the
BehoId— BIROETTE, the pen
the ladies love I Dainty and
attractive, in her favourite
colours, blue, grey, maroon or
black. Clip removes for hand-
bag carrying 15/-.
ě
nil
family
•©
Below the NEW BIRO
a smartly streamlined full-size
model. Grey, maroon or black
cases, finished with decorative
metal bands. You’ll approve
the special non-slip clip. 34/6.
e
solve the
Beautiful BIRO de LUXE,
the Presentation Pen. Gold on
solid silver cap and mountings
styled by Asprey’s of Bond
Street, London. A Very Im-
pressive Present for Very
Important People. ... £6/10/0.
è
gift problem
Because BIRO MINORS
write in four different colours
—red, green, blue or black,
they’re handy everywhere, in
home, office or school. Cases
match colour of ink. Minors,
complete with cap ... 6/-.
Everybody needs a Biro . . .
and now, there’s a Biro for every
need. All Biro models possess
the quality and reliability that
has made this British
Ball Point Pen famous.
At Stationers, Jewellers
and Stores. Biro Refills
are available throughout
Australia, and in most
countries abroad.
o
fo\*
k
a pen for your thoughts
Pat. Nos. 122073—8 Dec. 1943. 133163—31 Dec. 1943
4/33
for your family
Beside BIROMATIC the
new “single-handed” automatic
model. Press top gently, the
point clicks out; press top
firmly, it slips smoothly back.
Rhodium - plated (a durable
silver - milled finish), 42/-.
Rolled Gold ... ... 55/-.
battalions by air to country train-
ing-grounds. The soldier of the
near future who is not inured
to the technique of air movement
will soon belong to the dust-
heap. Indeed the time is not far
off when every footslogger will
need to know the technique of
parachute-jumping and glider-
landing assault methods. Even
now any man trained in air
technique sometimes is worth
three who are not.
With modern methods and
practice in modern tactics
will need to go a general
smartness of uniform and of
military life all round which
will remove training from the
category of roadwork and
convict labor.
When the Government can
prove that military training is
not irksome, that it does not-
interfere with industry, and that
it sends the trainee out of the
force in better shape, better
equipped for life and with fresh
opportunities not open to the un-
trained civilian, there will be
little difficulty in making a
national training system work.
Britain and the
Atom-bomb.
“Ek Dum”: American news-
papermen have suddenly dis-
covered a belief that Britain has
an atom-bomb of her own. The
assumption till now, fathered in
the United States, has been that
the stupid British would natur-
ally have to depend on the genius
of the Manhattan Project for its
atomic explosives.
It is quite likely that the story
is true, but the British Govern-
ment is unlikely to tell. It had
radar for years without telling.
It had the principles of jet-
propulsion ahead of everybody
else, and its laboratories worked
out the technique of splitting the
atom before the rest of the
world. It would not be surpris-
ing to find that Britain was well
ahead of everybody in atomic
warfare, particularly since Her
scientists have a sense of
realism which does not always
exist elsewhere, especially in
those countries where publicity
often counts more than perform-
ance.
Whatever the British have pro-
duced they have not lost their
heads over atomic warfare. A
few days ago Mr. Chuter Ede,
Home Secretary, warned a Civil
Defence meeting in London that
the day of h.e, and incendiaries
was not past. He said that
studies by experts of the two
explosions at Hiroshima and
Nagasaki for comparison with
the results of normal bombings
of big cities gave interesting
food for thought.
The largest single h.e. and in-
cendiary raids of the war were
on Hamburg and Tokyo. The
damage done by the raid on
Hamburg was equal to twice the
damage done to Nagasaki, and
more casualties were caused by
it than by the one on Nagasaki.
The total damage to Tokyo in
1945 ar*d the loss of life there
were also greater than at Hiro-
shima.
He said that there was a
great deal of misunderstanding
about the effects of atom-bombs.
Civil defence should be able to-
prevent a very high proportion
of the casualties.
United Service
Institutions.
“Ek Dum”: A matter which
the new Ministry of Defence
would do well to consider is the
development of United Service
Institutions, which can serve
many useful purposes in the
training and the keeping-together
of officers on the reserve and
otherwise,
The parent body is the Royal
United Service Institution of
Great Britain. This, like all
others the world over, is open
to persons who hold or have held
the King’s Commission in one
of the three services. The objec-
tive is the development of
military education, culture and
art among the services.
The British Government
strongly supports fhe R.U.S.I. It
gives it the use of the famous
old Stuart Banqueting House in
Whitehall, from a window of
which Charles I stepped to
execution. There is housed a
fine collection of war trophies,
a unique library. Lectures by
heads of services and other
experts are held at regular in-
tervals and knotty problems of
military history are referred to
the institution from all over the
world.
In Australia there have been
State United Service Institutions
for half a century or more.
Until recent years the operations
of most of them have been
limited and desultory, and very
largely social, but in the last few
years some of them have grown
considerably, and serve the pur-
poses for which they were in-
tended within the scope of a very
limited subscription and an also
limited —though gratefully re-
ceived—subsidy from the Com-
monwealth Government.
The largest and most active
is the United Service Institution
of N. S. Wales. This 50-year-old
body finished World War II with
under 600 effective members—
the subscription is graded accord-
ing to rank from 10s. per annum
for lieutenants Up to £1 Is. for
higher field and flag ranks.
The post-war presidency was
taken over by Lieut.-General
Berryman, G.O.C. Eastern Com-
mand—it is usually held in rota-
tion by the commanders of the
three branches of the services—
and Colonel R. W. Savage became
honorary secretary. Develop-
ment began at once. It was
made clear by Eastern Command
that permanent serving officers
were expected to take an interest
in the institution. A monthly
journal was founded and has
flourished, serving a useful pur-
pose in circulating the routine
news of both the Permanent
Forces and the Citizen Forces
and Reserve of Officers. It con-
tains special sections for the
R.N. and tb« R.A.A.F., publishes
lists of transfers and promotions,
and has grown from a 16-page
A
brochure to 44 pages in two
years. Each member receives a
copy as part of his return for
his subscription.
The institution has a fine cir-
culating library, and an active
library committee purchases all
significant new books each
month, both military and
general. It now owns about
18,000 volumes, aijd a move is
at present under way to dissect
and organise the unique military
collection included in it so as to
make it most useful to officers in
training for promotion. It is
probably one of the best military
libraries in the British Common-
wealth, and it issues something
like 1000 books and journals a
month to members. Country
members may order their books
by post.
Lectures, on service and other
subjects, are held regularly, and
a good deal of reserve officer
instruction is being transferred
to the institution’s rooms. The
monthly luncheon usually
attracts some speaker of distinc-
tion, a high serving officer or a
technical expert, who often
speaks to a closed audience “off
the record.” A ladies’ night is
held once a month in the season,
this also usually being the
occasion of a lanfem-lecture or
a talk. Sometimes these func-
tions in the past two years have
taxed the capacity of the insti-
tion’s hall in History House,
Sydney.
There is a rifle-club which
holds regular shoots and a
public-speaking group in train-
ing.
After three years of post-war
development membership has in-
creased fivefold and has passed
the 2500-mark, but the organisa-
tion has chiefly been on the
Army side, and much remains to
be done to bring the R.A.N. and
R.A.A.F, sections of the institu-
tion up to the same level.
The presidency has just been
transferred from Lieut.-General
Berryman to Air-Vice-Marshal
Macauley, A.O.C. Eastern Com-
mand, and until recently C.O.S.
to 8.C.0.F, in Japan, who is
entering into his duties with the
same enthusiasm and drive as his
predecessor, whom the institution
has very largely to thank for its
present flourishing condition.
Much as has been accom-
plished, there is still much to do.
It seems a pity that all the insti-
tutions of Australia cannot be
more closely linked, and that the
Defence Department does not
go further than if has done in
supporting the movement, which
will become more and more
valuable to defence with the
growth of the Citizen Forces
under the new training scheme.
Its support has been valuable,
but is not commensurate as yet
with the importance of the insti-
tutions to officer training and
education.
Norway has developed a new
defence plan which puts Aus-
tralia’s present one to shame.
With a population of just over
3,000,000, who work much longer
hours and more days per week
than Australians, it is proposed
fey the defence committee to
provide 12 combined regiments
and a home guard of 120,000
men, together with all facilities
for making Allied help possible
in emergency in quick time.
The strength of the Air Force
has been set at eight fighter
squadrons, two light-bomber
night squadrons, two recce
squadrons and a transport
squadron. And there are plans
for 11 U-boats, seven destroyers
and a number of small craft.
The Storting is to consider the
report of the defence com-
mittee next May.


s »
iw
WA
m
m
Bli"
MSS
* i .
P
Si
m
By Appointment'
Cin Distiller*
Vl* H.M. King George Vl*
CPtaqueray. Cordon & Co Ul
ordon's
Stands Sup'orna
“THAT
The
é
James Burns
P. T. W. Black
MANAGER; L. S. Parker
ê
ë
Tel. BU 5901
Box 543, G.P.0., Sydney
BPI 4-49
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
PIECEWORK IN “PARADISE.”
In a series of revealing articles,
N. Y. “Herald Tribune’s” former
Moscow correspondent Joseph
Newman has given out a picture
of the “Worker’s Paradise”
today very different from that to
which he was restricted by
censorship during his two years
in Russia.
Naming as “one important
fact,” that “the State, which the
worker originally was to control,
now controls him in every aspect
of his daily life,” Newman, in
one of the articles, gives the
following account of the
worker’s lot— not, it should be
emphasised, the slave-camp
worker, but the ordinary “free”
variety;
“The piecework system, pro-
moted by Premier Stalin, now
accounts for up to 92 per cent,
of the wages in one industry,
according to Comrade V. V.
Kuznetsov, head of the trade-
unions. This system of pay,
once denounced by the Russians
as the sweatshop and the >vorst
form of capitalist exploitation,
has become the basic-wage
system of the Soviet Union.
“It is a system which is par-
ticularly dangerous in the hands
of a State which exercises abso-
lute power, against which there
is no recourse, and in which the
labor organisation is made to
serve the State first and the
worker second.
“The Soviet employer-State
periodically increases the labor
norm on which piecework pay-
ments are based so that the
worker is expected to increase
the amount of goods he produces
for the same amount of wages.
“Comrade Kuznetsov, in an
official statement published
January 9, 1948, reported that
increased labor output, which ex-
ceeded the pre-war level by 14.2
per cent., had been facilitated
by the upward revision of work-
ing norms. New collective con-
tracts, he revealed, would further
increase these norms.
“This frank admission that the
State was securing greater out-
put by making the worker pro-
duce more for the same wages
was not allowed to be trans-
mitted abroad by foreign cor-
respondents in Moscow, for
obvious reasons.
“The norm on which piece-
rates are based is not deter-
mined by the output of the
average worker, but by that of
the more productive one. The
Stakhanovite, the most produc-
tive laborer, becomes the un-
official yardstick by which all
the other workers are measured
and penalised.”
Moreover, Newman goes on
to explain in another article of
the series, the thus pressurised
worker who had looked forward
to peace as a period in which he
could relax and recover finds
himself today still working under
war-time conditions with a
standard of living below the pre-
war level:
“The longer working hours
and the demand that he produce
more and more, dictated by the
war with Nazi Germany, havs
been maintained as a result of
the current cold war with the
Western Powers. His production
— St. Louis (U.S.A.) “Star-Times.”
JUST CHANGING MILLSTONES.
quota has been sharply increased
so that the five-year plan might
be completed in four years.
“He continues to be bound to
his job and denied the freedom
to change his work without
authorisation. Labor decrees
issued just before and during the
war continue in full force. By
a decree of June 26, 1940, the
Soviet worker can be imprisoned
from two to four months if he
leaves his job without authorisa-
tion.”
By the same decree, the Soviet
Government authorised itself to
punish any worker guilty of
absenteeism. “He is found guilty
of this crime if he is 20 minutes
late to work three.times in one
month or four times in two suc-
cessive months. The maximum
penalty is six months’ corrective
labor at his place of employ-
ment with a loss of one-fourth
of his earnings.”
If workers in industries pro-
ducing military equipment—“the
number is probably quite large”
—or in railway and water trans-
port leave their work without
authorisation, “they are classi-
fied as deserters and imprisoned
for from five to eight years.”
At the same time, the Soviet
Government retains the power
of compulsory transfer of
workers from one place to an-
other “regardless of the terri-
torial location.”
That, in effect, declares the ex-
Moscow observer, “means the
Soviet Government can bind
workers to their jobs indefinitely
or can move them any time and
anywhere it pleases without con-
sulting any one.”
Communist China.
With the advantage of having
worked as a field administrator
in the Friends Ambulance Unit
on both sides of the Civil War
in China, T. Gibson, writing in
London “World Affairs,” gives
strong support to the already
much-publicised notion that the
Chinese Corns will not be like
other Corns ; his view being that
they share a general Chinese re-
sentment of all foreigners—
Russian included—having any
hold on their country.
The writer seeks to present
objectively the Chinese view on
that particular issue:
“What sort of picture now
presents itself to , the average
Chinese, as he looks about him?
The defeated Government, which
he has long regarded as corrupt,
has, during its most poisonous
stage, been openly financed by a
foreign Power—America. As a
result American munitions have
found their way by capture to
the Communists as well as the
Nationalists, and as medical
colleagues of mine discovered,
casualties from, either side were
wounded with American
shrapnel.
“One of China’s most
important trading stations,
acquired during the time of
national weakness, is under alien
control—that of the British at
Hong Kong providing an
asylum for opponents of what-
ever happens to be the reigning
Government, and a base for
foreign warships penetrating
Chinese waters. It is as if
Southampton were to be occu-
pied by a foreign Power whose
ships sailed up the Thamfes in
order to reinforce the diplomacy
of its Ambassador in London.
“On the other side of the poli-
tical fence much of the most
precious industrial plant in China
has been seized by another great
foreign Power —Russia—which,
during its occupation of Man-
churia, was doing business, at
one and the same time, with both
sides in the Civil War.
“Last of all, in Formosa the
defeated Nationalists are sharing
Chinese territory with American
marines and providing an
anchorage for the American
fleet. Far to the West, the
country of Tibet, which Chinese
have always regarded as properly
within Chinese territory, has
expelled the Chinese Mission. It
is generally believed that this
act has been taken with the
approval of the Government of
India, which would prefer to
have Tibet as an independent
buffer State.”
Calling that “a bald statement
of the picture as a Chinese might
see it whatever his political
affiliations,” the writer declares
that “A Chinese Government,
whatever its political coloring,
will gain or lose in popularity in
direct proportion to the firmness
of its opposition to further
foreign penetration,” and this
“holds as surely for foreign pene-
tration by Russia as for that of
the other side in the ‘Cold War’.”
On the same note; “The
greatest danger is to confuse
China and Chinese Communism
with Russia and the new Russian
imperialism. Chinese are sick of
most foreigners.”
As to the future, “The time is
approaching when Mao Tse-tung
and his colleagues must decide
anew the problem which
threatened at Lenin’s death to
disrupt the Russian Soviets. Is
China’s foreign policy to be
Stalinist or Trotskyite? Should
the new Government concentrate
on rebuilding China along the
new pattern in order to show
what Oriental Communism
means in economic and social
terms —or should efforts be
divided between rebuilding the
country and extending Chinese
influence over South-Eastern
Asia in order to provide a de-
fence against land attack, and
access to some of the raw
materials which will be urgently
needed once the Chinese in-
dustrial revolution begins? The
choice is between these two
policies; China cannot, in her
present poor state, afford both to
reconstruct at home and to
expand abroad. The armies of
the Communists must either be
used as guardians—and possibly
extenders of her frontiers —or as
shock-troops to set about the
exploitation of the country’s
agricultural and mineral re-
sources, and the rebuilding of its
shattered transport system.”
The “World Affairs” writer
suggests that just what the final
decision would be lay largely with
the Western Powers—inferen-
tially, by either granting or with-
holding diplomatic recognition
and material assistance in re-
construction. The Chinese Com-
munist leaders he regards as
“shrewd enough to trim their
foreign policy according to what
is economically the most favor-
able wind,”
Against such views, a London
“Daily Mail” writer contends
that “Shrewd observers of recent
Chinese developments dismiss
the wishful thinking of some
British ‘progressives’ that Mao
Tse-tung will prove the Tito of
the East. They say China should
be watched carefully, as Stalin
will use her as a springboard for
jumping farther afield in Asia.”
Atlantic Federal Union.
As reported by a London
“Observer” writer, the movement
for an Atlantic Federal Union,
started by 10 American Senators
last July, has now assumed
“mighty proportions” in the
United States, with a good
chance of Congress early next
year passing a resolution calling
on the President to convene a
constitutional convention for it:
“Then we shall suddenly find
ourselves face to face with the
greatest and most revolutionary
opportunity of the century. It
is somewhat disturbing that in
this country [Britain] few poli-
ticians of any party are giving
serious thought to the possi-
bility of an Atlantic Federation
—a Federal Union merging
America, the Commonwealth,
and Western Europe, embracing
the minor trends towards unity
of Western Europe and the
Commonwealth and effacing
their contradictions.
“The logic of progress and of
present world politics points
plainly towards this consumma-
tion.”
Doubts on Japan.
The MacArthur (and appa-
rently official U.S.) policy of
building up Japan, expecting it
to be lastingly friendly to the
West in general and the U.S. in
particular, and Jo be, also, a
strong bastion against Com-
munism, has its strong opponents
in Washington, according to a
correspondent there of “New
York Times.”
The correspondent has re-
ported that, without detracting
from his post-war administrative
record, there are many officials
who hold that the magic of Mac-
Arthur and the reliability of the
Japanese may be impermanent
qualities “on which the United
States should not rely too much.”
Japan, these officials observe,
is not equipped with the raw
materials necessary to be a very
reliable workshop, has not shown
any marked aversion to switch-
ing sides in the past, and is not
precisely popular in any of those
countries the Japs occupied and
brutalised during the war:
“There is, therefore, in the
opinion of this group of officials,
a strictly limited and uncertain
future for any American policy
that might base itself mainly on
Japan; for one of the first
results of such a policy, they feel,
would be to alienate all the new
sources of power in Asia and
divide the United States from the
British, the Australians, the
Dutch and the other Western
nations who also have an interest
in seeing a new and reliable
relationship built up between the
West and the Far East.”
The correspondent. reports
these influential U.S. officials as,
in fact, holding that it is neces-
sary for the U.S., Britain and the
other Western Powers to negoti-
ate a general Far East settlement
which will be acceptable to
the peoples of all the Orient,


BLOTCHY'
SKIN
marred by spots,
rashes and pimples is
quickly cleared by
Cuticura Ointment. It as-
sures skin health. Always
keep a tin of Cuticura Oint-
ment in the house. Good for
cuts, bruises and sores. One
of the famous trio- Cuticura
Ointment, Soap and
Talcum Powder., .. 533.
fiiticura
V OINTMENT*
SMOKERS
PIPE TOBACCOS THAT ARE
BLENDED TO GIVE
SATISFACTION TO ALL.
HOUSE OF MURPHY. A blend of
the highest grade of leaf to give a
cool smoke of satisfaction that men
prefer. 22/- per lb. Posted.
A.A.A. HII/LTOP. A blend of
Australian, American and African.
20/- per lb. Posted.
WINSTON REAHY RUBBED
CIGARETTE TOBACCO. Greatly
Improved by better blending of
mature leaf. 24/- per lb. Posted.
Special Quotes to Retailers ]or lots SOlb.
weight or over.
Write to: Cash Order Dept.,
Hillman Trading Co.,
Commercial Road, Brisbane.
Postage paid on Cash with order.
Postage extra on C.O.D. Orders.
now iETi t)
a s'AGiiesy
H
6
When you call for Brandy
make sure you say
S T AGR6S
BRANDY
“THE EMPIRE CUAMPIOISI* M>'-4GrieSs
M
Distilled and Bottled by ANGOVES LTD 7. South' AustralDA.4&
including, in the long run, “the
Chinese Communists as well as
India, Pakistan, Indonesia,
Malaya, Burma and Indo-
China.”
No Place for Corns.
Naturally, the U.S. Press has
thoroughly discussed the Com-
munists’ trial since the convic-
tion of the 11 accused on
charges of criminal conspiracy.
One thing in particular that
comes out is that Judge Medina
proved himself very far from
the damaged Aunt Sally that
cables sometimes pictured.
Though some doubt has been
expressed about the verdict as
an assault on the accepted con-
cept of freedom of speech and
related boons considered safe-
guarded by the U.S. Constitu-
tion, the appeal to a higher
court is thought unlikely to
show up Medina in any serious
error.
In the view of the “Phila-
delphia Inquirer” “one question
of transcendent importance” now
arises: What is the future of
the Communist party in
America? Its comments, of
course, apply in Australia or any
other democracy where Corns
operate:
“It is utterly apparent that
there can be no place in a sys-
tem of democratic government
for a political party dominated
from abroad and acting in the
interests of a foreign Power
which is an implacable foe of
the American form of govern-
ment.
“The evidence presented
during the nine-month trial fully
corroborates the view that the
Communist party is an anomaly.
All other American political
parties, including the so-called
splinter parties, operate within
the framework of the Constitu-
tion in their efforts to bring
about the changes in govern-;
ment which they advocate. While
the Communist party, as such,
was not a defendant at the trial,
its claim that it is just another
political movement attempting,
through peaceful means only, to
bring about far-reaching re-
forms in the American political
and social systems has been shot
to pieces by the sound verdict
holding 11 of its top leaders
guilty of conspiring knowingly
and wilfully to advocate and
teach the duty and necessity of
overthrowing and destroying the
Government of the United
States by force and violence.
“The possibility that the Corn-
munist party will go under-
ground as a result of the out-
come of the trial remains, in
spite of denials that such a move
is contemplated. Such a deci-
sion would have less significance
than is generally believed. Many
Communist activities at present
are underground. The party is
spreading its doctrines of hatred,
disloyalty and treachery through
a screen of phony organisations,
many of them with innocent-
sounding titles, and by agents
—Birmingham “News.”
FRAYED TO THE DANGER-POINT.
known by false names and
schooled in deceit.
“Such an organisation, deter-
mined to destroy the very insti-
tutions of government which
have made possible its existence,
is not to be tolerated. The Com-
munist party is no more Ameri-
can than the totalitarian
philosophy of which it is the
instrument.”
Baltic Liquidations.
Someone having suggested
that nations should “forget their
political quarrels” and be matey
with Russia, the chairman of the
Scottish League for European
Freedom, John F. Stewart, re-
torts in a “Scotsman” letter that
such “forgetting” isn’t so easy:
“To take only one instance:
the Russians are engaged in an-
nihilating the fine peoples of the
three Baltic States. Quite re-
cently, 25,000 inoffensive and un-
resisting old men, women and
children were suddenly seized in
the night from one city alone,
packed into trucks without food
or water, and sent (those who
survived) to a terrible death in
Siberia —those dying on the way
were merely thrown out. Semi-
savages are being brought from
the east and forcibly married to
the wives of men still living who
have escaped, and given their
names and property.
“Is this a ‘political quarrel
that should be forgotten’?”
Ban on D.P. Brains.
In a London “Spectator”
article, W. H. Edwards describes
as the “most poignant problem”
of the still-“displaced” the per-
manent employment and settle-
ment of what he calls “the Baltic
elite” banned by most countries
because of their age:
“The camps and settlements of
the International Refugee Or-
ganisation are today affording
protection to approximately
26,000 of. the ablest, best-trained
men and women in Europe.
Among them are practitioners
and distinguished graduates of
all arts, sciences and professions,
A representative group in the
British zone consists of 356 agri-
cultural specialists, 796 doctors,
dentists, pharmacists and other
trained medical personnel, 110
chemists and natural and social
scientists, 507 engineers and
architects and not fewer than
363 former university teachers.
While the member-States of
1.R.0, have absorbed many
thousand refugees from the
Baltic countries as manual or
skilled workers, a formal inter-
pretation of immigration regula-
tions has acted as a ‘ban on
brains.’ The countries that have
welcomed the Baltic workers
have sometimes failed to appre-
ciate that the wide range of ex-
perience gained by men and
women who occupied responsible
positions in their native countries
could only be acquired in
middle age.”
The writer quoted 1.R.0.
experts for the estimate that the
number of persons who will still
require care or resettlement from
the three zones of Western
Germany after 1.R.0. ends next
June will be approximately
150,000. In this group one-third
consists of Poles and Ukrainians,
while two-thirds are Estonians,
Latvians and Lithuanians who,
like the Poles and Ukrainians,
cannot be repatriated to their
countries because they might be
victimised on account of their
consistent anti-Communism.
Dragnet Digest,
Malenkov. —Heading his London
“News Chronicle” comment “Malen-
kov Is Stalin’s Heir,” A. J. Cum-
mings gives this tender cameo of his
selection for the mantle: “By all
accounts Malenkov himself is un-
couth, lives austerely and has few
personal intimates. It is a thousand
pities that he is crassly ignorant of
the outside world, that his know-
ledge seems to be confined to ideo-
logical maxims. In the dreariest
sense of the word, he is an isola-
tionist.”
* * * *
Russia’s Atom “Offer.” —Weighed
and found decidedly wanting by
London “Daily Telegraph”: “Russia
has not budged an inch in her atti-
tude to the control of atomic energy.
The essence of any effective control
is that it should be independent;
otherwise it is meaningless. Indepen-
dence is exactly what Russia will not
concede. Now, as before, she will
agree only to control and inspection
of atomic plants by an authority
which would be subject to her
Security-Council veto —in other words,
an authority which would have no
authority at all.”
* * * *
Welfare State Alternative— Social
welfare was the issue in the big steel-
industry strike in the U.S. It resulted
in the sought Concessions being
granted, but, as London “Observer”
has pointed out, they were granted
on a private-enterprise basis; “The
principle has been accepted that pen-
sions and sickness benefits on quite
a large scale shall be paid to workers
in the larger industries. But because
of the traditional American distrust
of State action, these benefits are
being paid to a large extent by
industry rather than by the State.
It will be interesting to see whether
the ‘Welfare Industry’ can provide a
satisfactory alternative to our Wel-
fare State. Probably each country
could profitably borrow many ideas
from the other.”
* * * *
Overboomed Atomic Power. —Put-
ting a steadier on too high expecta-
tions of atomic power replacing other
agencies for industry, “New York
Times” editorially points out that the
over-enthusiastic forecasts have been
discounted from the beginning by
“engineers who knew how efficient
a steam turbine can be,” and their
expert warnings continue, “despite
romantic- stories coming out of
Russia.” The N.Y. paper adds that
“Enough is known of the economic
and technical difficulties that con-
front the designing engineer of an
atomic power plant to justify the
conclusion that the utility companies
will continue to burn coal indefinitely.”
* * * *
French Army Weakness. —Being
neatly diplomatic, London “Times’s”
military correspondent is “confident
that the new French forces of today
are well fitted, if given the chance,
to add a bright new chapter to the
French military story,” with the con-
siderable qualification “provided they
can be freed from the influence of
out-of-date conventions as well as
from the handicap of out-of-date
material.” In the same diplomatic
vein, he goes on to speak of “the
fine spirit and great liveliness of
mind” noted among them; declares
also that equipment shortcomings are
now being remedied; and yet adds
what is, militarily speaking, the abso-
lute final negation: “No equipment
will in itself transform the army
afflicted by psychological sickness.”
* * * *
Socialist Epitaph. —Mr. L. Hore-
Belisha, speaking at Coventry: “The
epitaph on the four years of Socialist
rule [in Britain] will be: 1946, over
£1,000,000,000 borrowed; 1947, loan
exhausted and £137,000,000 of our
gold and dollar reserves dissipated;
1948, £313,000,000 Marshall Aid re-
ceived ; 1949, devaluation, the 20s.
sterling £ replaced by the 14s. Cripps
£.”
* * * *
Soviet Satellite Purges. —The latest
wholesale crop of these are viewed
by London “Time and Tide” as
having the particular significance of
indicating the abandonment of any
further Kremlin pretence that the
satellites enjoy even nominal indepen-
dence. All the leading figures up for
“trial” are charged with “espionage,
treason, hatred of Russia and in-
capacity. No doubt a lively lot of
confessions are even now being com-
mitted to memory by these unfor-
tunate persons; but ‘Planning to
Make War on the Soviet Union’ is
almost certain to be the highlight of
the impending trials.”
* * * *
Not Only Tito Quite apart from
the Tito-Stalin brawl, the Balkans,
as N. Y. “Herald Tribune” points
out, remain very much the Balkans
they always were, with innumerable
points of friction among them:
“Thanks to old wars, and the odd
patchwork of race, religion and
language virtually every State there
has claims against the territory of its
neighbor; nearly every nation has
been allied with and opposed to all
of the others at one time or another.” I
Hence, “Russia could hardly hope to
reconquer Yugoslavia without setting
all of the Balkans in a blaze.” And
perhaps not only the Balkans.
* * * *
Yugoslavs Would Fight. —Oversea
newspaper comment is generally
agreed on one thing: that if the
Kremlin marches against Tito, either
with the Red Army or satellite forces,
the Yugoslavs will fight hard, as they
did not hesitate to do against threat
by Austria in 1914 and by Hitler
in 1941. “It is probably true,”
“Washington Post” typically com-
ments, “that the great mass of Croats
and Slovenes have little love for
Tito, and it is certain that the Serbs
and Montenegrins have even less.
But much as they may detest his
rule, they would prefer it to a dic-
tatorship by Kremlin puppets.” Also,
“The Yugoslav armies have been
purged of all Stalinist elements, so
that Tito could count upon the
loyalty of his officers.”
♦ * * *
Weak Socialist Measures. —By how
far short of being able to avert
British bankruptcy are the now-
operating Attlee Socialists’ measures
may be indicated by this further
“Manchester Guardian” editorial
comment: “The most that can be
said of these ‘cuts’ is that by the
middle of next year—if some miracle
kept us going until then —they might
restore the Government’s financial
policy to what Sir Stafford Cripps
intended it to be last April, when
Marshall aid was meeting the whole
of our dollar deficit and we were not
losing any gold. It is simply beyond
the bounds of sanity to suppose that
the policy which proved inadequate
then can be adequate now—still less
in eight months’ time.”
* * * *
Britain’s Elections. Pretty well
every month from January to June
has now been named by British Press
guessers as the time for the next
elections. On socialisation in general
and the nationalising of the steel
industry in particular the elections
will amount to a definite referendum.
The Opposition Peers in the House
of Lords insisted on amendments
concerned with postponing the work-
ing of the Steel Bill until after the
elections; and the Conservatives are
pledged to repeal the measure if
returned. On the Peers’ stand, Lon-
don “Time and Tide” comments:
“It never was the case of Lords
versus People and never will be. The
people now know that if they return
Labor to power at the elections they
will be giving a mandate for the
Steel Bill—and the Parliament Bill
[restricting the House of Lords].
And the Opposition Peers would
accept that mandate, even to the
extent of clipping their own wings.”


U!
// 4 V
/If
5
nSV
-'>'V
Hour of chatter and charm, when friends
<*,,o
meet happily. Hour of skilful
entertaining, with knowing hostess
making clever cocktails from Vickers Gin and
simple ingredients. Vickers always
excellent, always satisfying
is the universally accepted
drink of the times.
the Gtn wilt he
538 S
mi'*?
Ilf
/
v
¥!
FAMOUS SINCE 1750
VOBA/I6
333
»»
avmr
m
STATE
EXPRESS3SS
THE SIC RETS IN THE 333 s BLEND
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“Only a waiter can tell the true
character of a man.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
He ought to, having been
tipped off,
. . *l* 4* *l*
“ ‘William Shakspeare was a soldier
before he became a successful play-
wright,’ says Alfred Duff Cooper.”
Then we may now learn mors
about his private life.
•f* *l*, "I*
“Nudists have, formed their own
political party in Brazil.”
They’ll be satisfied with a
bare working majority.
*l*. *J* *f«
“Paradoxically, the sea cow appears
to have inspired the creation of one
ot the loveliest individuals in
mythology, the mermaid.”
Sydney ‘‘Sunday Telegraph.”
* This would explain many a
young sailor’s calf-love.
*l* *J* 4*-
“For sale: Dinning suite, 8-piece,
maple, as new, £23.”
—Suburban paper.
A very sound bargain.
•}. .
“It doesn't matter what your waist-
line may be.” — Woman’s paper.
You can still pull yourself
together.
•Jr
“He had seen his wife and
two £lO notes in a city street.”
' —Divorce report.
They nearly made a “monkey”
out of him.
A Different Complexion.
“In Rowley Regis, England, the
town council voted to install violet
street-lamps after local girls com-
; plained that the old yellow ones
1 were unflattering, and thus a hin-
-1 drance to romance.”
When pretty lasses go a-court-
I ing
i On flower - scented English
nights
It’s only fair that lamps assort-
ing
! Should show them in the best
of lights.
For what avails a peach com-
plexion
If unromantic lamps should
show
Such sallow cheeks os cause
defection
And coolness in one’s Romeo.
Yet cheer up, girls, no worth-
while fellow
Your youthful beauty would
eschew
If you should look a little
yellow —
Except perhaps a jaundiced
few !
BERT.
Symbolic.
When first she knows the ABC
Of language that is in a sigh,
The letters most upon her lips
Are U and I.
But when she’s past the marriage
lines
How odd that it should be
The letters that concern her
most
Are L. S. D.
N. B. GEE.
Best-Non-Seller.
“The telephone directory is one of
the most widely read books •of our
times.”
—lntroduction to radio feature.
’Tis heartening indeed to know
The Bard himself must now
forgo
His claim to immortality
When matched against the
P.M.G.,
Whose magnum opus, classified,
Such inspiration will provide
That all subscribers soon must
find
This peerless boon—the robot
mind.
JEAN STANGER.
Political Cookery.
“The most important role in the
education of cooks,” declares the
Red Army’s official organ, “Red
Star,” “should be played by the
party political workers of the unit.
Librarians should also assist cooks
through selected reading to widen
their cultural outlook.”
Ivan Asovabos was the pride
of the 421st Bullock-wagon Re-
pair Company of the Red Army.
Before being drafted into the
army Ivan had been a collecti-
vist offal-treader in a Moscow
vodka foundry, and his introduc-
tion, for spud-mashing purposes,
of the foundry technique of
which he was a master soon
"e'd never have got the same exercise with a violin."
made the practice standard rou-
tine for the Red Army. For
effecting such a huge saving in
potato-mashers Ivan was pro-
moted to acting temporary
assistant lance-corporal, which
brought him a pay-rise of such
magnitude that it would then
take him only eight months’ pay
instead of 14 months’ to pay for
a pair of imitation leather boots,
the few genuine leather ones
thieved from occupied and satel-
lite countries being reserved ex-
clusively for high party officials.
In the days back in June,
1941, when the Red Army,
handicapped by having only a
bare 22 months to prepare to
meet the expected German
attack through Poland, began to
break all existing sprint-retreat
records, Ivan had covered him-
self with glory by beating every
other vehicle in his unit with
his bullock-drawn cookhouse-
cart by at least two hours.
Moreover, the high honor con-
ferred on him of Stakhanovite
Retreater, First Class, had
earned him the right to cook for
the unit’s political commissars,
who comprised a third of the
unit’s strength.
Under their tutelage Ivan
quickly became one of the most
brilliant cooks in the Red Army.
He had only to be asked “How
would you set about making a
tasty offal stew for a platoon?”
and he would immediately
answer with superb exactitude:
“The warmongering leaders of
the decadent Western pluto-
cracies are plotting to attack the
peaceful Soviet Union because
they are afraid of the U.S.S.R.’s
mighty strength and its mighty
influence for world peace.” To
a request to explain how it
would be possible in the Red
Army to make a banana custard
without either bananas or
custard Ivan would brilliantly
retort: “The filthy Titoists and
scrofulous Deviationists are all
spies in the pay of the war-mad
capitalistic Western democra-
cies which are plotting to en-
circle the peace-minded Soviets
with a ring of atom-bombs.”
When asked what was the best
way to cook Armenian goat-
steaks so that they would afford
the rank-and-file a maximum of
tooth exercise, Ivan would in-
stantly reel off a list of famous
Russian scientists who had in-
vented gunpowder, the sub-
marine, the diesel-engine, radar,
the stethoscope, electricity,
thunder, television, the stump-
jump plough, the beer-pump and
the tote.
It was through Ivan’s inten-
sive study of Marx’s Das Kapi-
tal that he conceived the idea of
evolving the now-famous Red
Army three-courses-in-one feed
for privates who didn’t pos-
sess Communist-party member-
ship-tickets. This comprises
soup, stew and sweets. The chief
ingredient is water, to which for
soup purposes is added (tem-
porarily) a few fishheads. A
little minced wolf-meat, mangel-
wurzels and choice grass forms
the main course, whilst the ad-
dition of a few jelly-crystals
makes it also a dessert.
It was not long after Ivan
got a bill for 10,000 roubles for
reimbursement to the State of
the funeral expenses of his wife,
who had, he was notified, been
“liquidated” as a result of his
son Gregor informing the secret
police that he suspected his
mother of harboring anti-
Stalinist thoughts, that Ivan ac-
cidentally discovered among the
books in the unit’s political
library one which apparently
had got in by mistake. It was
a book of short stories by a pre-
Revolution Russian writer, and
one beautiful tale he read told
of how a half-witted servant in
the palace of a sadistic noble-
man, in revenge for his master’s
having had his sister beaten to
death with a spiked iron club
for refusing to yield herself to
him, bumped him off by putting
ground-up glass in his vodka.
That night Ivan got to work
assiduously with a hammer and
a bottle. Next morning, im-
mediately after breakfast, 34
political Commissars of the
421st Bullock - wagon Repair
Company of the Red Army
seemed to have the gripes. An
hour later they seemed to be
suffering from a slight attack of
rigor mortis.
Which explains why the latest
edict of the Politburo lays it
down that illiteracy displaces
not being able to cook as the
first qualification of all Red
Army cooks.
BO.
Not from Champagne.
“Lunch-hour crowds in the centre
of Paris found a 9ft. boa-constrictor
on the Seine bank.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
‘‘Whence earnest thou, O crea-
ture rum.
From circus or delirium ?
Art thou a snake whose daily
task
It is to free the Paris sewers
Of rats; or have the cunning
brewers
Released thee from some O.P.
cask ?”
The boa wreathed his gaudy
coils,
As bright as flowers limned in
oils,
Then gave an alcoholic snort
And winked at me before
replying:
“My origin I’m not denying,
I’ve just come from a foreign
port.”
D. H .E.


ē
ALL KINDS OF
FISHING TACKLE!
For river, beach and deep
sea fishermen. English and
French NYLON LINES...
hunting knives . . . smokers’
requisites. Write for new
fishing catalogue, now avail-
able.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 George St., Sydney.
Phone M 6261.
&
m
m
frasaoee
v .Hl'!
s
m
%
CLOTH
£
■■l
iwiil
w>«
mm
m
iM
i.
m
GUARANTEED. NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
&
o ißi /r /
n
(i
hops a -
Ancestors of
an Industry
Sir Frederick Gowland Hopkins
revolutionised the chemistry of nutrition, for his
early research work led to the discovery o
vitamins. At the turn of the century Hopkins
succeeded in isolating a vitally important amino-
acid, tryptophane, a discovery which went far to
explain the structure of those body-building com-
pounds, the proteins. Further research convinced
him that no animal could exist on a diet consisting
only of pure proteins, fats and carbohydrates
(starchy foods), and by 1906 he was already on
the track of the accessory food factors now
known as vitamins.
Born at Eastbourne in 1861, Hopkins was edu-
cated privately, and«started work as a clerk in
an insurance office in London at the age of 17.
He soon gave up this appointment to become
assistant to an analytical chemist and study for the
examinations of the Institute (now Royal Insti-
tute) of Chemistry. He passed so well that by
the time he was 22, he had become assistant to
the Lecturer on Forensic Medicine at Guy’s
Hospital. In 1888 he entered Guy’s Medical
School as a student. Ten years later he
was invited to Cambridge, where he became a
Fellow and Science Tutor at Emmanuel College.
In 1918, Hopkins was awarded the Royal Medal
of the Royal Society, and seven years later he
was knighted. In 1929, he won the Nobel Prize
for his work in biochemistry, and the following
year became President of the
Royal Society. Hopkins held this
position until 1935, when he was
awarded the Order of Merit. He
died in 1947.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
■—
ICI
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOU SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Saturday’s racing at Rosehill threw
no fresh light on Villiers prospects,
but the result of the 12-furlongs
Christmas Cup strengthened present
observer’s conviction that Snow-
stream and Dark Marne will be the
hardest to beat in the Summer Cup.
Snowstream turned in possibly the
best performance of his career to
win the Christmas Cup after Shomac
had held what seemed an unbeatable
lead entering the straight. Winner ot
a string of races round the country
districts, the Shogun five-year-old
Shomac jumped into the lead from
the start, and was 20 lengths to the
good at the half-mile; straightening
up for the run home Shomac was still
a dozen lengths clear, but Snow-
stream, who had headed the mam
bunch throughout, gradually bridged
the gap, caught the bolter inside the
final half-furlong, and drew away to
win by a length and a half.
Dark Mame, who had been one
of the tail-enders all the way to the
turn, had a difficult passage as he
tried to stage his run in the straight;
nevertheless he finished full of run-
ning to be third, about three lengths
behind Shomac. While Dark Marne
was beaten by a fair margin on
Saturday, there are good reasons to
believe that he may turn the tables
in next Monday’s Summer Cup. In
the Cup Dark Marne (9.5) will be
meeting Snowstream (9.1) on 21b.
better terms than (n Saturday’s race,
when they carried 9.7 and 9.1 respec-
tively. The longer journey, too, will,
be in Dark Marne’s favor, and, above
all, he’s a horse of proven class and
evidently in form. Of other Summer
Cup candidates Steady’s fast-finishing
fourth on Saturday marked him as a
lightweight with a chance, while
Kerry Lad’s apparent poor showing
could be overlooked —his saddle
slipped.
Though of course possible, it did
seem improbable that the winner of
the Villiers was among the bunch
which contested the Flying Handicap
(6±f.). Making a reappearance after
a spell, San Domenico gave the
handicapper a ready-made topweight
which the said gentleman acknow-
ledged with a plaster of 9.11. By
the same token the handicapper ex-
pressed a high opinion of consistent
Caruso, who was given 9.6, next in
the weights being Royal Andrew with
8.6. Caruso started favorite at threes,
and, ridden a perfect race by beii-
wood, won comfortably from Mid-
wise and Blue Flag. San Domenico
was never in the hunt.
It will not surprise to see one or
two greys around the scene at the
finish of the Villiers—there is a
strong contingent of them among the
entries, which include Epsom-winner
Denali, Blue Ensign, Blue Flag, Blue
Lass and Grey Boots —each of whom
could be given a chance. However,
on form displayed in recent weeks a
pair who impress as outstanding
Villiers prospects are Wiranya and
Karachi. Karachi is entered for both
legs of the summer double, and,
having last year run second in both
the Metropolitan and the Moonee
Valley Gold Cup, would have to b;e
considered for the Summer Cup if
that be his mark. However, the fact
that he has had only two preparatory
runs, both in sprint events, suggests
that the shorter race is his mam
mission. For the Villiers Karachi is
handicapped at 9st., which will not
worry him in the least —he’s a great
weight-carrier. Wiranya is a con-
sistent minor placegetter, deserving of
better luck. He finished third, 1*
lengths behind Denali, in the Epsom,
and will meet Denali on 101 b. better
terms in the Villiers.
Apart from Villiers and Summer
Cup considerations the outstanding
feature of Saturday’s racing at Rose-
hill was the splendid performance of
jockey N. Sellwood in riding four
winners from the card of eight races.
Sellwood is enjoying a wonderful run
of racing luck —which is not to sug-
gest that his wins are in any way
flukes. Rather, good horsemanship
plus that essential element of luck.
In two of his wins on Saturday Sell-
wood had the better of hairline
photo-finish decisions and in another,
after winning by a neck, he had to
survive a protest.
Sellwood won both divisions of the
Parramatta Mixed (7f.), taking the
first on the Balloch mare Matinee
and the second on the Bourbon colt
Count Bourbon. Sellwood’s other
winner was the Dhoti filly Syncopa-
tion, who, under topweight of 9st.,
registered a tip-top performance to
win the Two-year-old Handicap for
fillies in race-record time of 55£sec.
for the 44 furlongs. The Two-year-
old for colts and geldings went to
another topweight in the Jolly Roger
colt Navigate (A. Markland). Dixie
Belle, a three-year-old daughter of
Beaupartir, scored well in the Auburn
Mixed (10f.), and the Welter went to
Dalston (J. Thompson).
* * * *
Favorites being beaten in every race
but one, results at Moonee Valley
on Saturday ensured that bookmakers,
at least, should not be short of a
modest morsel for the Christmas
board.
With the curious perversity which
distinguishes the breed punters chose
the two hardest races of the day as
“Stand upright on the mark, Tony — that'll give y'
a coupla feet start .
the medium for creating the two hot-
test favorites of the day. The races
were two Altona Handicaps, con :
tested by large fields of maiden
two-year-olds, many of them racing
for the first time. Favorite at 10 to
9 in the Altona for fillies was Weka,
a daughter of Hellespont, and, ridden
by Stan Martin, she did what was
expected of her in stylish fashion,
scoring by two lengths from Just
Jane and Riverina Lass. In the
Altona for colts and geldings Tascot
Lad was the even-money favorite, but
he, along with the rest of the field,
was fairly run off his legs by the
Enfield colt Aldershot, who looks a
good ’un. Having his first run, and
starting at 33 to 1, Aldershot (R.
Hutchinson) won by six lengths from
Stray Lad, with the favorite third.
At the yearling sales a couple of
years back O. R. Porter paid 3600
guineas for the St. Magnus-Fairy
Princess colt, a full-brother to his
old champion St. Fairy. Porter got
his first return on the outlay when
the colt, racing as Prince o’ Fairies,
won Saturday’s Ellendale Handicap
(lOf.) for three-year-olds; winner’s
cut was £7OO. In the lead as the field
turned for home, after being a long
way back earlier, the Prince withstood
a spirited challenge from Bewitched
in the straight before drawing away
to beat Bewitched by three-parts of
a length.
Both the Hillcrest Handicap (13f.)
and the Desborough Handicap (Bf.)
saw hefty plunges just miss out.
Panmure was the “good thing” for
the Hillcrest, and seemed to have it
won until the Lang Bian gelding
Lord Bian (W. A. Smith) flashed up
in the last stride to win by a short
half-head. The margin was slightly
greater in the Desborough Handicap,
with the 2-to-l favorite Eucardius
beaten three-parts of a length by
Spearflame (A. Breasley), at eights.
Completing a day of woe for punters
favorite Regular Port was beaten a
half-length by the Dhoti filly Charkha
(J. Purtell) in the 6-furlongs Heroic
Handicap.
* * * *
For Randwick (before accept-
ances) :
December Nursery: Niaranga, 1;
Syncopation, 2; Canoe, 3. Three-
year-old : Nerscot, 1; Corosan, 2;
Niska, 3. December Juvenile: Gold
Coin, 1; Navigate, 2; Starlight, 3.
Novice: King Lear, 1; Double Sea,
2; Chancellor, 3. Villiers: Karachi,
1; Wiranya, 2; Denali, 3. December
Handicap: Wearie, 1; Faraway, 2;
Air Flare, 3. Welter: Lone Duke,
1; Dalston, 2; Royal Reward, 3.
For the Summer Cup: Dark
Marne, 1; Snowstream, 2; Karachi, 3.
* * * *
“Nego”: The Aussie Rules game has
invaded other strongholds more re-
mote than Cambridge (B. 7/12/’49).
Around 1942-44, at Hohenfels, where
a swag of Anzacs were involuntary
guests of Hitler, we witnessed a
four-team league series—two clashes
between the Eastern States and
Westralia and a momentous match
New Zealand v. Great Britain, which
the Kiwis won 7.8-5.18. The Tommies
took to Rules and voted it “cham-
pion.” They’d have won the match
but for poor kicking, and as it was
the Maorilanders kept their noses in
front only because they had rung in
several Aussies who had a doubtful
claim to wear the all-black through,
their enlistment in the N.Z.E.F.
* * H= *
Next year those energetic souls
whose quaint notion of fun is swim-
ming the English Channel will have
something more substantial than the
honor and glory to strive for. London
“Daily Mail” is putting up £lOOO for
a Cross-Channel Open Race, to be
swum about the beginning of
October. It is understood that seals,
crocodiles and other livestock will
this time be barred.
* * •' * *
The water at North Sydney
Olympic Pool has been thrashed to
boiling-point over the past week or
so, with a horde of enthusiastic
paddlers from dll States contesting
the Australian aquatic titles. The
meeting was simply a procession of
smashed records —far too many to
list in detail, but one of the best
efforts was that of New South
Welshman Frank O’Neill, who be-
came the first swimmer to break the
minute for 110yds. in an Australian
championship. O’Neill clocked 59.9-
sec. in a heat and registered 59.65ec.
in the final, the latter time equalling
the best ever recorded in the Empire
Games.
* * * *
At Newcastle (N.S.W.) on Saturday
Australian tennis fans had their first
sight of the visiting S’African
champion Eric Sturgess, who revealed
himself as an unspectacular but very
polished player of the baseline per-
suasion. He and Drobny, who plays
the crashing, attacking game, pro-
vide a complete contrast but an
excellent combination. In a series
of exhibition matches they put it all
over the local pair, Bromwich and
Worthington, both in doubles and
singles.
* * * *
With N.S.W. skipper Keith Miller
now with the tourists in S’Africa,
Ron James led the ’Walers in their
Sheffield Shield attack upon South
Australia at Adelaide on Friday.
South Australia having opened with
a total of 181, James’s merry men
proceeded to belt the opposition’s
bowling all over the ground, and at
stumps on Saturday N.S.W. had
notched up 419, with three wickets
in hand. There was some hefty
scoring, too, in the other Shield
match, Vic. v. Q’land, commencing
in Melbourne on Friday. With
Meuleman (79), Howard (74) and
Numa (77) supplying a solid founda-
tion, the Victorians amassed 405 in
the stolid, dreary fashion that takes
so much of the joy out of cricket.
Scoring at a slightly—very slightly—
faster rate, Queensland had piled up
126 at a loss of four wickets when
the case was adjourned on Saturday.
* * * *
In the match concluded at Johan-
nesburg last week, with a rain-
affected pitch playing tricks on both
sides, the Australian cricket tourists
just scraped home against Transvaal.
Australia scored 84 and 109; Trans-
vaal, having in the first innings
, declared at 9 for 125, needed 69 to
win, but they were routed for a
total of 53. Next on the agenda for
the tourists was a match v. a South
African XI in which, as this went
to press, South Africa had knocked
up a first-innings score of 329 and
the Australian openers Moroney and
Archer were both not out with 118
on the board.
* * * *
Unlike some of our leading
pugilistic lights, promising feather-
weight Ray Coleman doesn’t mind
fighting as often as opportunity
offers. At Leichhardt last week Cole-
man, scaling won his third
main-event bout in a month when he
easily outpointed Alan Barber (8.12).
Barber made a willing scrap of it all
the way, but simply lacked his
opponent’s class.


f 30 November sj 1949
WORRY, rtvl SENDING IT TO
Grazcos.*
Modern Marking.
“R. A. A. Sargent”: Over
the years inventive minds have
been endeavoring to find a safe
. and sure method of castration
and tailing that will leave no
open wound.
For a while attention was
' centred bn instruments that
would crush the cords without
opening the scrotum, and some
success was obtained. However,
in some cases the operation did
not take, and when the particu-
lar animal was located recourse
had to be made to the knife,
adding to the normal risks that
of the severe shock to
animal.
There is now a device called
the Elastrator, designed to ex-
pand a strong rubber ring so
that the scrotum and testes can
be pushed through the ring,
which then contracts. The effect
is to stop the circulation of blood
so that the part atrophies and
drops off, leaving no open
wound. The operation is ap-
parently painless.
If, however, the method is ex-
tended to tailing (for which it is
also successful) some pain is ap-
parent, the iamb trying to buck
the ring off or walking in
circles, finally lying down be-
fore attempting to seek its
mother. On the other hand,
'lambs treated by this method
recpver more quickly than those
operated on with a knife at the
same time; in fact, my own ex-
perience tends to prove that
mothering time and difficulties
are approximately halved.
Although the method leaves
no open wound, normal precau-
tions should not be relaxed, as
it must be realised that the ani-
mal is carrying what amounts to
dead tissue until the dropping-off
occurs—it is therefore inadvis-
able to use the rings on lambs
if they are dirty without taking
antiseptic precautions.
Wira calves the operation is
exactly similar, and has similar
success, but here even more so
than with lambs it is advisable
to mark as early as possible.
HARK YOUR
THE MODERN
LAMBS
WAY
ELASTRATOR
REGD. TRADE MARK
CASTRATOR & TAILER
A PRODUCT OF ELASTRATOR (AUST.) PTt. LTD.
SSSSSSSZ *66 Flinders Street, Melbourne, CJ ZZSImUZZZ
NV 912
£
w
lii
N
AML‘F
• Behind every bale of your
. wool lie years of courageous
planning and effort.
• A.M.L.&F. realise this. That’s
why they give your hard-
earned wool the same
personal care and supervision
as you would yourself, and
that’s why you can be sure of
the best possible price when
you send your clip to
A.M.L.&F.
86 Years in the Service of the Man on the Land
INC. IN ENGLAND. 1563.
AUSTRALIAN. MERCANTILE, LAND & FINANCE COY. LTD.
4 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
AND AX MELBOURNE AND BRISBANE.
Country Branches— N.S.W.: Newcastle, Wagga, Henty, Hay, Oowra, Scone,
Moree, Garah, Wee Waa, Brewarrina. Q’ld: Townsville, Charleville, St.
George, Cunnamulla, Dirranbandi. Assoc. Agents: McPhie & Co. Pty.,
Ltd., Toowoomba, Oakey, Dalby and Pittsworth. Vic.: Wodonga,
‘ Phenovis ” Worm Remedy
’"•! To 1
O *IHCUi
*vitA
rCfy *'*pr ot ,cd
ĕ
‘PHENOVIS’
PHENOTHIAZINE DRENCH
FROM STORES, MERCHANTS AND PASTORAL HOUSES
£HE^O^tso
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M IT TO
GRAZCOS.
N.S.W. Horse-brands.
“Bungaree”; Thirty years and
more ago, when a bushman eyed
a strange horse one eye took
in the animal in a swift apprais-
ing glance while the other
checked the brands. Inside per-
haps a little more time than it
takes the modern youth to
identify the make and model of
a car the bushman had gathered
the salierft facts of the horse’s
life —its approximate age, the
station where it was bred and
much about its habits, vices and
various ownerships.
The brand of a particular
station or owner might have a
reputation to double the face-
value of the horse that bore it,
and, conversely, a much-branded
horse tended to arouse suspicion
in the minds of buyers.
Each State in the Common-
wealth has its own branding
laws and regulations, and while
the subject carries less import-
ance than it did half a century
ago, every stockowner should
know his liabilities in regard to
branding.
In N.S.W. the Registration of
Stock Brands Act, 1921-23,
governs the branding of horses
and cattle, while the Pastures
Protection Act, 1934, governs
the branding and earmarking of
sheep.
The branding of large stock
is not compulsory, but it is a
safeguard of which every stock-
owner should avail himself. Any
property-owner may apply to
the Registrar of Stock Brands
for a brand which may be used
solely in respect of stock owned
by him on that or adjoining
properties, but may not be used
in respect of stock owned and
depastured by him or other
distant properties. This registered
brand may be used for horses
and cattle, and each letter,
figure or symbol component
must be at least l£in. and not
more than 3in. in height, with
not less than between letters
or figures.
Horses may be branded only
on certain portions of the body.
For the registered brand these
are (1) left shoulder; (2) right
shoulder; (3) left thigh; (4)
right thigh; (5) right neck.
Brands of succeeding owners
must be placed on the portion,'
as here listed, following that,
which the previous owner has 1
used. For instance, if the horse
you have bought carries the
registered brand of the breeder
on the near-shoulder you should
brand him on the off-shoulder,
and the man that buys him from
you should place his brand on*
the near-thigh. Thus, if the
horse is stolen or lost his latest
owner and also the breeder may
be traced.
Large stations where a num-
ber of horses are bred annually
often put a distinctive brand on
each animal in addition to the
registered brand, and in the
station horse-book this distinc-
tive brand —usually a serial
number —is entered with the
horse’s name, age, breeding,
color and markings. In N.S.W.
this distinctive brand may not
be placed directly under the
registered brand, as is done in
some other States to good ad-
vantage. The distinctive brand
is limited to one or more
numerals with a minimum
height of lin., and may be placed
onlv on the following portions
of if horse: (1) left neck; (2)
left cheek; (3) right cheek; (4)
left saddle; (5) right saddle.
The only exception to this rule
is in the case of Australian stud-
book horses, which may have a
distinctive brand on right shoul-
der or right thigh if no registered
brand has already been placed-
there.
The use of chemical branding
fluids in place of fire-brands is
“Why don’t you blokes be friends?”
riot officially recognised in
N.S.W., as the powers that be
are not satisfied on their
durability. However, in New
Zealand, Government institu-
tions have been using certain
chemical branding fluids on
cattle and horses since 1927, and
recent photographs of branded
animals show the outline as
clearly as any fire-brand. In
both instances success depends
on doing the job properly, and
under these conditions no one
could distinguish between the
results of either method.
Owners of a registered brand
should notify the Registrar of
any change of address, or where
a property changes hands and
the new owner takes over the
brand this fact should be noti-
fied immediately. In the case
of the death of a property-
owner his successors or execu-
tors must notify the Registrar of
the new ownership within six
months of decease.
Zebus and Uniform Beef.
“Archaps”: In the annual
report of Queensland Depart-
ment of Agriculture, R. D.
Chester, officer in charge of the
Cattle Husbandry Branch, states
that while zebu cattle may have
some place in the economy of
the cattle industry in Queens-
land, indiscriminate use of
various zebu hybrids by small
individual cattlemen was fraught
with grave danger.
In certain more-closely-settled
areas of Central Queensland
there had' been a swing towards
zebu-cross cattle, while in the
less-well-developed country of
the north the zebu-cross had be-
come less popular. It was hoped
that in the near future joint ex-
perimental work would be done
with the C.5.1.R.0. on a pro-
perty in Central Queensland, to
estimate the place of zebu cattle
in the State’s beef industry.
Aim of beef-cattle breeders,
said Chester, must be production
of a uniform type of carcass ;
indiscriminate crossing of hybrids
would lead to a multiplicity of
types. Such a policy was likely
to prejudice the cattleman
against the introduction of zebu
strains of any type, and slow up
progress along the lines of more
enlightened animal - breeding
methods.
It was evident, he added, that
one factor of importance in the
economy of beef production in
Central and Northern Queens-
land was that of mineral im-
balance, particularly phosphate
deficiency. Two surveys were
being undertaken: (1) To assess
the herd-bull requirements of
the industry and how far these
were being met by recognised
stud breeders in Queensland and
the southern States, respectively,
and (2) to endeavor to ascertain
what improvement, or deteriora-
tion, had occurred in cattle
quality and production capacity
of properties in various districts.
Crop Rotation.
“Rooster”: Werribee State
Research Farm (Vic.) recently
conducted some permanent crop-
rotation trials, and found that
periodical fallowing is essential
to maintain yields, conserve
moisture, and control weeds,
especially where stock are con-
stantly moved from paddock to
paddock.
The most profitable rotation
tried over a long period has been
fallow, oaten-hay, barley. The
average yield of hay from this
rotation is 44.9 cwt. per acre,
more than double that of hay
grown continuously.
Contrary to general opinion
peas and rape have proved un-
successful and uneconomic.
Wheat yields were highest when
the rotations included a year of
pasture; continual rotations of
fallow-wheat reduced yields over
long periods. This applies to
the fallow-hay rotation, the rate
of decrease working out at 0.56
cwt. per acre per year. In all
other rotations, no significant
trend in yields, either up or
down, was recorded.
Soil-fertility, as shown by
periodical soil chemical analysis,
has been best maintained where
pasture has been included in the
rotation. Experiments are to
continue with a view to assessing
the practicability of including
sub. clover in the rotation trials.
These findings appear to support
the long-held theory that mixed
farming, with properly managed
rotational cropping, is the best
i possible way of maintaining soil-
fertility.
Tractor School.
“Beroo”: The Queensland
Bureau of Sugar Experiment
Stations and Gatton College are
arranging a tractor and cane
agriculture school at the college
'for canefarmers in January,
1950. The course will be on the
same lines as previously, and
during the fortnight the morn-
ings will be devoted to lectures
by experts on various aspects of
cane-culture, pests and diseases,
agricultural engineering, farm
bookkeeping, etc., while the
afternoons will be taken up with
practical work on the mainten-
ance and repair of tractors.
The school is limited to 80,
who must be farmers or farmers’
sons and over 18 years of age,
and as the, number of applicants


PRISMATIC
COMPASSES
For use in marking boundaries,
lining fences and taking bearings.
MARK 111 Liquid £B/10/-
( Illustrated )
MARK IX Dry.. £3/10/-
Also surveyors’ instruments ,
clinometers; hand and
dumpy levels.
iaik
42 HUNTIH, SIHLET. SYUNtY, BW 8631.
m
WB
Write for
particulars.
mm
MM Wf&
■ ■
ju , '
mm.
n
m
ANY OTHER TRACTOR OF
EQUIVALENT HORSEPOWER
The
NEW
/
m
CRAWLER
TRACTOR
25/33 H P.
32/40 H.P.
AMPLE POWER TO HANDLE THE TOUGHEST JOBS!
The LOYD is powered by the
Turner Diesel V type 4 cylin-
der 25/33 or 32/40 H.P.
Engine a motor with a
world wide reputation. Elec-
tric starting is standard equip-
ment and gives immediate
and positive starting from
cold. Starts and operates on
Diesel fuel. Fitted with vari-
able governor giving constant
governed engine speeds at all
settings.
The Loyd Crawler is a product
of Vivian Loyd & Co., Eng-
land, an organisation with
over 25 years’ experience in
the manufacture of Crawler
type vehicles.
LOW FUEL CONSUMPTION i
An actual 60 hour test in
Western Australia proved an
economy of fuel as low as
three-quarters of a gallon of
Diesel fuel per hour.
ALSO AVAILABLE IN 25/50
POWER KEROSENE MODEL
THE LOYD CRAWLER IS AN ALL-WEATHER*
ALL-THE-YEAR-ROUND TRACTOR.
■3
y.
• ;
Mud, sand, clay, undergrowth,
roots or saplings make no
difference to its broad tracks.
With a maximum speed of 7
m.p.h. it gets quickly from job
to job. Whether as an agriculr
tural tractor, or for clearing,
logging, dozing, grading, scrap-
ing, loading, backfilling, exca-
vating, winching or road build-
ing the Loyd will do the job
BETTER! FASTER! CHEAPER!
m
m
m
» ■£<
V.: \
Illustrating (a) the easily accessible
adjustment on idler wheel for track
wear and tension. A feature of the
tracks is that they can be changed in the
field without special equipment, (b) The
special Loyd short pitch track of superior
flexible design enables tractor to travel at all
speeds smoothly, without the vibration that
larger pitch tracks are known to make.
With bull dozer or angle dozer equip-
ment the LOYD is the ideal compact
machine for medium duty work. The unit is
hydraulically operated and is available with
standard 43" track centres and 5'6" Blade
or 50" track centres and 6'6" Blade.
Clutch and Brake Steering is standard
with this equipment.
Write for specification folder from your nearest Loyd distributor
Western Australian Distributors: Draytons Ltd., Bassendean. Perth • South Australian Distributors: Power Handling (Aust.)l LtcL, 61
Gawler Place, Adelaide • Victorian Distributors: Loyd Tractors (V.c ) Pty Ltd., 20 Queen Street Melbourne • New South Wales
Distributors: Loyd Tractors (N.S.W.) Pty. Ltd., 82a Parramatta Road. Camperdown • Queensland Distributors: Norton Tooth.ll Pty. Ltd.,
112 Charlotte Street, Brisbane • New Zealand Distributors: John Chambers & Son Ltd. Branches throughout New Zealand.
Loyd SaSes and Service is available throughout Australasia.
Commonwealth Factory Representative: New Zealand Export Co., 104 St. Georges Terrace, Perth.
always exceeds the places early
application to the bureau is
advised.
Farm Accounting.
“Recorder”; The farmer who
wishes to avoid the twin evils of
paying tax on “income” he did
not earn (B. 30/11 /’49) or expos-
ing himself to penalties for
understatement will see that his
return figures are proved
accurate. This is done by a bal-
ance-sheet. Such statements
summarise purchases and sales
of assets (other than stock) and
show balances or movements on
accounts for debtors, creditors,
bank remittances in transit and
drawings for private use, or, in
other words, all those transac-
tions not reflected in the income
statement. On the obvious theory
that taxable income is equal to
the net increase in assets at the
close of the period as compared
with opening figures (after allow-
ing. for private drawings and
certain extraneous items) it fol-
lows that if the taxable-income
figure is transferred to the bal-
ance-sheet the debits and credits
(or assets and liabilities respec-
tively) should then be equal.
Thus clerical errors are revealed..
What’s more, a perusal of the
balance-sheet will usually reveal
errors of principle, such as
failure to bring to account
amounts owing to creditors.
Apart from the taxation
angle, logically-prepared state-
ments have several uses. For-
mation or dissolution of partner-
ships, probate statements, infor-
mation for proposed sales of
farming properties, readily-avail-
able information as to the pur-
chase and sale of plant and
equipment —these are but a few
of the reasons why it is essential
to have a clear picture of the
operations and not a confused
“hit-or-miss” estimate.
Though accountants can help,
their work is hindered unless the
farmer does his part. To a large
extent the accuracy of the state-
ments they prepare depends on
the thoroughness with which the
farmer attends to the simple but
essential requirements such as
paying accounts by cheque,
drawing reimbursement cheques
for cash payments, using a car-
bon-copy deposit-book, retain-
ing account sales. Only thus can
taxation troubles be avoided.
Raising a Dairy Herd.
“Rooster”: When starting a
herd the newcomer must keep
his eyes open and his wits about
him. It’s throwing money away,
for example, to buy on the open
market. Because of lax con-
trols in cattle marketing it is a
common practice for many
farmers to cull out undesirables,
particularly those which are
poor producers, and flood the
markets with them. It’s safer to
buy from a reliable stud-pro-
ducer, and get a record, if pos-
sible, of ancestry and produc-
tion. The extra purchase price
is more than justified. An
alternative is to buy young un-
tried heifers; these are not so
likely to be culls, although the
buyer must use his own judg-
ment as to their producing
capabilities.
Quite a good herd can be
built from mediocre stock, pro-
vided a high-class bull is used.
Methodical grading will soon
reveal the “no-hopers.” Keep
a record of all performances,
preferably by joining the local
herd-testing association. But
don’t fool yourself by keeping
false records. Some farmers
make a habit of missing a milk-
ing prior to that arranged for
“testing,” thus giving a grossly
overestimated record of produc-
tion. And it will tend to de-
crease yields.
If going in for stud stock, by
all means breed pure animals.
But remember that it takes years
of experience and management
to successfully raise a high-class
herd. For the ordinary farmer,
whose principal aim should be
an economical balance between
outlay and income during the
building-up years, the cross-
bred or grade herd is more suit-
able. Pure-bred animals often
breed away from type, especially
if they’re high producers. Cross-
breeding tends to produce
strong, vigorous animals which
are more likely to adhere true
to dairy type.
Hints for the Farm.
“Bill C.”: Summer crops of
pumpkins, melons, etc., are often
imp-roved if sown in the “misses”
of a maize of sorghum stand,
The grain crop can be scarified
until the pumpkins start to run.
The protection from hot sun
and drying winds given by the
grain-stalks almost always leads
to more vigorous vine-growth
and bigger pumpkins.
“W. Court”: Encourage the
growth of sheoaks along sandy
river frontages. Collect the seeds
from big trees and plant them
fairly thickly in the sand. Once
up, oak seedlings grow fast
unless overcrowded. Self-sown
specimens are usually improved
by thinning; keep them out of
the river-bed. Don’t let fires get
near the seedling trees,
“Sundowner”: When stacking
baled hay within a building, put
it on a dry, level and firm
foundation which keeps the
bottom bales off the ground,
See that there is free accumula-
tion of air around all bales from
bottom to top; bond the stack
by placing the bales in each layer
at right-angles to those on the
layer below,
“Will C”: Doesn’t pay to
ro b every bees’-nest on the farm,
Consider carefully whether a
f ew pounds of honey will com-
pensate for disturbing swarm
after swarm of bees and driv-
ing them out of your area.


(
M
■
V
A
m
r
j
ii
Red Tape is not our business
Every large organization must have a standard
working procedure, particularly in the Life
Assurance business, where the welfare of three
million Australian policyholders and their
families is at stake. However, our free and
independent Life Offices do everything possible
to eliminate Red Tape. They are primarily
concerned in human values, human needs.
They exist to pay claims, and it is their pride
that these are paid as promptly as possible.
Personal happiness and security are the
business of our free
and independent
Life Offices . . . not
Red Tape.
EVERY AUSTRALIAN BENEFITS
BY THE ACTIVITIES OF
OUR FREE AND INDEPENDENT
LIFE
ASSURANCE
OFFICES
ISSUED BY THE LEADING LIFE ASSURANCE OFFICES IN AUSTRALIA
tl/229
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
A
6"
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
61, YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
kuv mo*
SANDERS
tfgg&FILES
Correspondence. Invoices,
statements, etc.. Died to the
~Sandere" can be securely
bound and converted Into a
perfect book of reference al
the end of each n.onth —or
any other period.
ormatto*
plication
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE'
Distributing Agtnn —
SYDNEY , v* W C. Ptolsld * Co. Ply. tU,
MELBOI'KNB • • . Normao Broa. Ply. Ltd.
ADELAIDE , * , Vardon A Sons Ltd.
PEBTII , . . Docket Book Co (AastJ
memorise easE
Pass Examinations.
Speak Without Notes.
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Send stamp for booklet.
Rev. W. Rowlands,
12 Younger Grove,
Caulfield, S.E.B, Victoria.
If any illustration in
“THE BULLETIN” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for
the original.
As Jamie sat down to his
meal, he said to his father:
“How much’d I get f’r ’im at
Jimmy the Greek’s, Dad?”
“ ’E gives one-and-six a pound
for cod.”
“ ’Ow much’d that be f’r this
’un?”
“Depends ’ow big ’e is.”
“00, big as me.”
“Be about twenty pounds.
That’s thirty-bob.”
“Will y’ take ’im in for us
after tea?”
“If there’s enough petrol.”
T AMIE hurried through his
y meal. He felt a tight knot
in his stomach, and it was hard
to swallow his food. When he
had finished he ran to the door.
As he put his hand on the knob
he suddenly remembered and
turned round. His mother was
smfling at him from the table.
“No, I don’t want any. I’ve
got too much food now that’ll
just waste if we have any fish.
And I’ll do the dishes.”
Jamie grinned and ran out to
the car. A little later his father
came. As he started the car his
father said: “Whereabouts is it?”
Jamie was silent a moment,
and then said in a. very small
voice; “Down by the cliffs, Dad.”
“Hm’m,” said his father.
“Well, don’t tell y’r mum.”
IN the torchlight the fish
1 seemed enormous. It flipped
sluggishly in fhe smooth water
and opened its great mouth,
worrying at the cord in its snout.
“How the heck did you hold
it, Jamie?”
“I hung on to the snag. ’E
almost pulled me arm off.”
His father put a bag over his
shoulders and hoisted the fish
on to his back. They climbed
back to the car and laid the fish
on a tarpaulin from the back.
His father cut through the gristly
part beneath the gills with a
sheath-knife. The great fish
jumped several times, and then
was still. They wrapped it in
the tarpaulin and put it in the
back of the car.
As they drove along the metal
road into town Jamie said
casually: “How much does a
rod cost, Dad?”
“Y’ c’n get ’em f’r about two
quid.”
Jamie was silent for a few
moments.
“Y’ couldn’t get one f’r about
thirty-bob, could y’?”
His father looked at him and
smiled at the small face looking
directly forward into the head-
light glare. ■
“I dunno, y’ might.”
'"THEY stopped at the Bird of
1 Paradise cafe. A long glass
tube flowed with light along the
front of the shop, and a thick
cloud of insects buzzed and
clacked about it. Dead insects
fell about them as they went in-
side. Jamie waited at the sweets
counter as his father carried the
fish to the back of the shop. The
proprietor came out from the
back. He was a short man with
dark skin and a strong hooked
nose. He hissed in surprise as
the fish was unwrapped.
“How you get heem? Onna
spinner? Cross-line?”
“I didn’t get him. The kid
’ere got ’im on a hand-line. Not
bad, eh?”
“Pretta good. No fear. Nearly
big as heem, hey?”
“ ’Ow much for ’im?”
“Onaseex the poun’ I pay for
’eem.”
His father winked at Jamie as
the Greek hooked hand-scales
through the snout and held it up
for the reading.
“Twenta four poun’. Verra
fine feesh! That-a-make thirta-
seex-bob.”
“Good.”
The Greek wiped his hands
on his apron and they went down
the shop to the cash-register.
Jamie wrapped up the tarpaulin
and followed. As he came up
to them his father took the tar-
paulin and the Greek counted
out to him. “One-poun’, thirta-
shillin’ and seex-bob.”
A FTER school Jamie ran out
*'■ across the playground to-
wards the town. As he climbed
through the fence by the rail-
way yards his school-bag caught
on the wire. He jerked it off
impatiently. Down the bank
he went and over the mounds
the excavations had left. Across
the tracks, his feet crunched into
the cinders. He scrambled
through the fence on the other
side and ran across the road to
the public square. He ran
across the lawn and between the
jacaranda - trees, around the
water-towers and down past the
bus-stop.
He stopped when he was in
front of the store. While he got
his breath he read the notice
above the window, Wilson’s
Sporting Goods. A notice in the
window said “Fishing tackle.
Bait by arrangement.” Jamie
went to the window and looked
at the things on display. He
dwelt a little on a pocket-knife
but looked on. He could not
see what he wanted. He went
inside. A fat man was reading
a paper behind the counter. He
looked at Jamie over his spec-
tacles as he came in.
“Yes, young-fellamelad. And
what can I help you to?”
Jamie held his breath. He
touched the money in his
pocket, the money from the
Greek, and the money that his
father had given him for the
yabbies. He wished that he
could make this moment last
for ever.
“Well? What do you want,
laddie?”
“I want a rod,” said Jamie
huskily. He cleared his throat
and said firmly:
“A rod for fishing with.”
GALAHAD
By “COL M.”
T" HE girl worked at the
* library flipping the cards out
of the front of your books and
telling you they were ninepence
overdue; she had finished
another day and sat now beside
a young man on the stone wall
where the park stopped and the
harbor began. She had only just
learned his name, yet glowed
with pleasure as she heard the
inimitable clink, turned and ac-
cepted the glass of ale. No.
You’ve got it wrong. This lass
with her back towards the
moored boats lapping gently at
the bay was not that sort of girl
at all.
Put it down to genius on the
young man’s part, for he had
drawn both volumes of Malory’s
Morte d’Arthur from the
library and had asked her out as
she marked his card, or put it
down to dull life in a morgue
of books ; but this is fact —her
escort would not have been her
escort had he worked in partner-
ship with any other volumes
ever printed. Since the day she
had first read those two herself
she had realised that she had
been born some centuries too
late. She was meant for that
other age, of chivalry, and since
that could not be she had
learned to cast her rightful era
on to the present. So, very prob-
ably, she felt now in her hand
not a common, middy-glass but
a chalice, filched not from some
unwatchful barmaid but torn
from a dragon’s claws, and be-
side her, broad horned-rims or
no, a knight.
The last drops, and the pair
sat now side-by-side on the wall,
facing the darkening grass,
rocking to and fro vaguely in
time with the song they sang. It
told of freedom, and suddenly,
as the girl emphasised her aver-
sion of being fenced-in and
leaned back singing brightly of
the joys of roaming with the
cattle in the rolling west, she
began to overbalance. Ever so
gradually her feet rose into the
air and, in the manner of John
Wellington Wells, she disap-
peared from view." A splash,
then silence.
The young man leaned over
the wall and looked at the water
and—
Beryl? Can you hear me?
Sorry about that. Just paddle
around for a while. I’ll get you
out. Hang on.”
Nothing came back but the
lapping of the tiny waves. He
straightened up, looked about
him, then walked towards a park
seat. He settled down and lit a
cigarette and then began
methodically to unlace his right
shoe. He took off the shoe,
placed it on the seat and re-
moved his sock and then
attended to the other foot. He
removed his coat, his vest, his
hat and stacked them in that
order on his shoes. He walked
back to the wall and bent
slightly forward with his palms
down on the stone and looked
with interest at the darkness.
“Beryl? Yoo-hoo! I’m going
to rescue you. Say something.
Look, there’s no sense me com-
ing down there if I can’t even
hear you. You’re joking, aren’t
you? Say something!”
Fifty yards along the wall-top
to the right a pale hand ap-
peared. Behind it, a veritable
cascade, came Beryl. A min-
now might have lurked behind
her ear. Her teeth were set like
a vice, her nostrils at their
largest aperture and there was
lightning in her eyes.
Regally, for all her wetness,
clutching one shoe in her hand,
she stalked straight across the
park, at first towards the bus-
stop, and then she. veered off.
It would be better to walk.
The man at the wall sighted
her and beamed.
“Beryl! You had me worried.
Damn’ near jumped in”
And he stood there in be-
wilderment. With a toss of her
little wet head she left him to it.
She had nearly forgotten about
it a week later when she noticed
that a customer had placed on
the counter Vols I and II of
Malory’s Morte d’Arthur. She
didn’t look up. It was finished.
But later in the day as she
wheeled the trolley around re-
placing the returned books on
the shelves, she lifted the first
half of Morte d’Arthur almost
tenderly.
Then she saw something on
the outside of the back cover,
a faint imprint. The second
volume showed exactly the same.
At first she couldn’t quite be-
lieve it, but the evidence was
there —the stud hole, the faintly-
deeper imprint of the hem and
the tell-tale shape of each end.
Forget the water and the wet
walk home—easy. But never
this. They were even illustrated
by Russell Flint, they had
glorious large type, and reverie
seemed to live between the lines.
But had he taken them to read,
to absorb peacefully and dream
about? No! He had taken
these books to press his collars!
These !
Poor old Gibbon’s Decline and
Fall, an innocent bystander on
the bottom shelf, took the full
force of her savage pointed toe.


LIMA
HAMILTON
comma
OHIO -U.SA.
SHOVELS • CRANES • DRAGLINES
LIMA HAMILTON CORPORATION
HAS APPOINTED
HASTINGS DIESELS PTY. LTD.
to represent their world
famous equipment in all
States of Australia, which
includes Tasmania.
SHOVELS • CRANES
• DRAGLINES
n
HASTINGS DEERING BUILDING
William Street, Sydney. Crown Street Corner
'Phone M 0412 (33 lines)
LM-1
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy copy of English : A Course
for Human Beings by Eric Partridge,
published by Winchester Publications,
London. —4755.
Copy of a poem describing a ride
from a bushfire “on my favorite
horse Clanronald,” thought to have
appeared in one of Nat Gould s
novels; of a poem referring to some-
body “broke in the Derby of ’5B ;
and of a poem which has the lines:
I thought of the cheers that rang in my
ears when I won the Garrison Cup.
—4754.
Words of poem containing the
lines:
A man of words and not of deeds
Is like a garden full of weeds.
—4753.
To buy copy of Saturdee and Red-
heap by Norman Lindsay.—47so.
Words of poem containing the
lines:
The man who calls no man his master
Nor bows his head to tinsel gods
And faces death, disease, disaster
And never murmurs at the odds.
—4751.
Does Anybody Know?
Origin of the phrase: “Only chil-
dren and fools play with edged tools.”
—4752.
Information Sought.
How to preserve and pickle
capsicum ?
If very large, cut in pieces after
wiping clean. Pack into preserving
jars, cover with a boiled solution ot
salt in water to taste, place in a pot
of water level with shoulders of jars,
put lids in position without rubbers,
and bring to boiling-point. Keep at
that temperature for five minutes,
remove jars, place hot sterilised rub-
bers under lids, and screw down.
Test next day by turning jars upside-
down; if there are any leaks, heating
must be done again until a complete
seal is obtained. Store in cool, dry
place. Drying on oven trays in mild
oven is also recommended. Store in
dry sterilised jars.
* * * *
How to deal with white-ants ?
Structural timber that has been
noticeably weakened by white-ants
should be replaced. Stumps or posts
to be retained should be swabbed or
sprayed with creosote, and the same
liquid should be mixed into the top
six inches of soil around each stump.
Stump-caps or other metal shields
should be fitted to prevent damage
extending into the building itself.
Existing stump-caps should be exam-
ined to ensure that they are not holed
or rusted, and, if necessary, replaced.
Creepers or vines should be removed
from the outer walls.
* * * ♦
What is a hypsometer?
An instrument for measuring
heights which employs the principles
that the boiling-point of a liquid is
lowered by diminishing the pressure
and that the barometric pressure
varies with the height of the point of
observation. The instrument consists
of a cylindrical vessel in which the
liquid, usually water, is boiled, sur-
mounted by a jacketed column, in
the outer partitions of which the
vapor circulates while in the central
one a thermometer is placed.
* * * *
Some details concerning Richard
Jefferies, the English naturalist and
novelist ?
Born at Coate, near Swindon, Wilt-
shire, in 1848, he attended school at
Sydenham and then at Swindon until
the age of 15, when he made an un-
successful attempt to reach Russia
and then America. Returning home,
he obtained a post on the local paper.
His early novels were failures, but in
1872 he published a remarkably
original letter in the “Times” on
“The Wiltshire Labourer,” which was
the turning-point in his career. In
1873 he found his true field of work,
the life of the country, and began
to write for “-Fraser’s Magazine” on
“Farming and Farmers.” The rest
of his history is that of continual
advance from close observation to
that intimate communion with nature
which is manifested in his later pages.
Jefferies died at Goring in 1887.
♦ * ♦ ♦
How to make a simple mayonnaise ?
A simple mayonnaise is made from
raw yolk of egg, salad oil, tarragon
and white wine vinegars, mustard,
pepper and salt. One yolk of egg
will blend with as much as a half-
pint of oil if the oil is stirred in very
gradually, drop by drop, to the yolk.
The vinegar can be added from time
to time as the mixture gets thick, and
the quantity can be left to the taste
of the cook. A good mayonnaise
should not taste too acid or too oily.
Addition of chopped capers or gher-
kins makes tartare sauce.
♦ * * ♦
What was a sin-eater?
A man who for trifling payment
was believed to take upon himself,
by means of food and drink, the sins
of a deceased person. The custom
was once common in many parts of
England and in the highlands of
Scotland. Usually each village had
its official sin-eater, to whom notice
was given as soon as a death
occurred. He at once went to the
house, and there, a stool being
brought, he sat down in front of the
door. A groat, a crust of bread and
a bowl of ale were handed to him,
and after he had eaten and drunk
he rose and pronounced the ease and
rest of the dead person, for whom
he thus pawned his own soul.
* * * *
(1) Definition of palmistry and (2)
is it scientifically sound?
(1) A predictive system whereby the
various irregularities and flexion-
folds of the skin of the hand are
interpreted as being associated with
mental or moral dispositions and
powers, as well as with the current
of future events in the life of the
individual. (2) The Encyclopedia
Britannica has this to say on the
subject: “That these purely mechani-
cal arrangements have any psychic,
occult or predictive meaning is a
fantastic imagination which seems to
have a peculiar attraction for certain
types of mind, and as there can be
no fundamental hypothesis of correla-
tion, its discussion does not lie within
the province of reason.”
Brief Answers.
H.E.8.: Send your full postal ad-
dress and we will forward informa-
tion on nasal bot and lung-worm in
sheep W.A.: The symptoms sug-
gest blood-pressure and catarrh. Much
depends upon age and health in
general. Doctor will prescribe after
examination. Meanwhile, avoid home
remedies —kerosene and the like —as
these cause irritation of nerve-centres
associated with the middle ear
rg • Boil loz garlic (weighed after
cloves) in 1 Dint water
£ to 1 If Add 1 Dint
tIU I u J!?’- Jin to boil
g°° d blring S JhrnnSh
and. add 41b. honey. Stram. through
muslin before adding honey if coarse
Particles remam Mix,_allow to cooi
and b0tt1e....F.J.C.8.. Our record
ofiiie JS Somm« Ho”e!‘ Son’
, S °w.of Wrile Registrar!
Federal Arbitration Court Phillip-
street) Sydney, and Industrial Regis-
rar Dept, of Labor and Industry,
53 ’ Martin-place, Sydney... .A J.:
fii jj McCoy a Victorian middle-
wei g ht W as classed as a contender
f t ’ he Australian championship
around about 1922, and he fought a
2 0-rounds draw with Tommy Uren
that yean Charlie Ring, Jack Cole,
dien Stewart defeated him, how-
ever and be was knocked out by
r ur i’ v Parkes in one of his last con-
tests,which took place at Wollongong
December 26 1922 P.O’R.:
Melbourne' 43 goals 29 behinds
(287 points), beat Sandringham, 7
VlSt
B the l939 iJr s *»s
IiTK
jg-*
Penrose, published by the trustees of
the National Museums of Victoria.
... .T.A.: Write A. H. and A. W.
Reed, 182 Wakefield-street, Welling-
ton, N.Z A.8.W.: From Royal
Australian Historical Society, 8
Young-street, Sydney W.N.: Lord
Frederic Hamilton, who wrote The
Vanished Pomps of Yesterday, was
the fourth son of the first Duke of
Abercorn, and was born in 1856.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
. address must appear on the
y 0 liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be
addressed to the Editor.
M. 8.: No space for articles of that
kind F.L.H.: They hays that rare
thing—a touch of originality
E.M.: But it appears to have been
printed somewhere else... .F. 8.:
There’s no doubt the unveiling ot
that Lawson Memorial inspired a lot
of verse that would have surprised
Henry.... J.C.: It’s a good idea, when
oft
especially fafego
C.E : Jos.
black snakes? J.P.: To think
there’s such tough guys in Queens-
land —you wouldn’t read about
them! E.8.A.: Loony assaults a
pretty girl in a dark lane, and you
think it’s because she’s wearing lilac
scent A. 8.: Surely there’s better
ways to die than kick a wharflaborer’s
schooner out of his hand! W.J.:
You remembered all those authors
and then you wisely went back to
your pipe. Nice of you to let us
know M.S.: Been reading Cronin?
Bellerive: ’Twas sad, indeed:
...G.L.: He killed his wife and her
lover its a bi ace....
SfeciioWf yoVgol*dK£ r£
Si
S? L Mont a ftfiC
A SAD END.
(T he pathetic fate ol the E„gli.h aetor
G. V. Brooke, drowned when the vessel
London was wrecked while bound for
Australia.)
As the breakers swept
O’er the vessel deck,
I 1 * 6 *? 116 ac , to . r per , d
On the awfuh wreck.
oH second trip
He met he’s doom
On the illfated ship.
a dramatic star of
The English stage,
hT life's middle' 6 agT*™
in ntes miame age


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4id. per line; all others 2|<L per line.
International Wheat Agreement
The possibility of currency devaluation
was apparently one of the things over-
looked by the architects of the Inter-
national Wheat Agreement. The current
row between Australia and Britain on
price will almost certainly queer the
whole bureaucratic arrangement if both
sides are as determined as their repre-
sentatives aver.
The effect of devaluation has been to
bolster a falling market, for wheat prices
had started their post-war decline, and
those seeking economic sanity were hop-
ing they would set the standard for other
commodities.
It would have been better for both
parties if some realistic agreement could
have been reached, for it will not suit
Britain to look elsewhere for the quota
of grain she normally imports from Aus-
tralia, and it certainly will not be to the
present or future benefit of the Australian
wheatgrower if the stable and sympathetic
British market is closed to him.
Wheatgrowers in this country
admittedly had a hard time right up to
the outbreak of war, but since then
their grain has been really golden, and
when the overseas price reached its apex
of a pound a bushel in 1946 they received
a return on export wheat that made up
for the lean, pre-war years.
There are, of course, two sides to the
present argument; devaluation was a
British move, and Attlee’s Socialist team
should have foreseen what the effect on
wheat imports would be. What they
overlooked, no doubt, was the fact that
Australia’s Socialists would follow suit
and devalue the Australian pound, to pro-
vide an election-bait for primary pro-
ducers.
The best way to right the applecart
would be to revalue the local pound to
parity with sterling, the natural and
proper relationship between the two cur-
rencies. If this course is taken it is to be
hoped Mr. O’Neill, the Australian Wheat
Board member who has been so insistent
on his pound of flesh, and other wheat-
growers will support it.
Australia’s currency was devalued
during the depression to aid the farmer.
Most wheatmen have their wool as well,
and if they still require that kind of aid
they shouldn’t be on the land. — Dick
Turpin (N.S.W.).
Flying-foxes
As a newchum I was astounded by a
film “short” showing tens of thousands
of the pests robbing an orchard, and by
the obvious futility of trying to defend
the fruit with shotguns. It seemed like
trying to keep off a cloud of mosquitoes
with peashooters. May I suggest a pos-
sible means of catching the marauders
alive and kicking, not as single spies but
in battalions?
The raiders roost in the trees, hanging
head downwards. When disturbed they
take off by dropping out of the branches
until they have room to spread their
wings. They cannot rise from the ground
because of their peculiar shape, and can
become airborne only by falling from a
height to gain momentum and elbow-
room for a flying start. If a camouflage-
net were spread under an infested tree
and propped up to the height of the lower
branches with a few feet to spare all
round, the bats would fall into the trap
and get hooked up in the meshes, to be
dealt with at leisure. There would be no
runway, and the umbrellas could not be
opened and operated because of the twigs
and leaves, and because of the jostling of
other wings.
The trick should be worth trying. It
can scarcely be less efficient than the
present sporting method of discouraging
the vegetarian vultures. — Scottie (S.A.).
Real-estate Agents
The people, in New South Wales at
least, are afforded more statutory protec-
tion against fraudulent real-estate agents
than “Cave” believes (B. 7/12/’49). True,
the regulations concerning registration
could be tightened up.
However, the Auctioneers Stock and
Station and Real Estate Agents Act,
1941-46, provides that agents must keep
records subject to inspection by the
Auctioneers’ Council. All moneys received
as deposits, etc., must be banked to a
separate trust account. Special trust-
account receipt - books, machine-
numbered, and carbon-copy deposit-
books must be used.
Bank accounts must be balanced with a
list of amounts held on behalf of various
clients as shown in the trust ledger. Regu-
lations insist on good accounting, so that
the receipt and disposal of trust moneys
can be seen at a glance.
Records of goods received for auction
sale, showing reserve price, date of sale,
.price realised and name of purchaser, are
prescribed, as are books showing details
of livestock sales.
As an accountant, I’ve often had the
unenviable task of restoring order out of
chaos which results from failure to
separate trust and general funds. The
Act, in requiring correct treatment of
trust transactions, will benefit those agents
who did not appreciate the need for such
records.
To date, the council has used its powers
liberally, but now, after a transition
period, will deal more firmly with those
who shirk their obligations.— Recorder
(N.S.W.).
The N.T.
That parts of Australia which have
been proclaimed as unsuitable for par-
ticular kinds of farming have subsequently
proved well-suited to them is not in itself
evidence that the N.T. is an attractive
prospect for the small producer (B.
9/11/ ’49). Over many years men with
experience of the country have expressed
doubt as to its suitability for closer-
settlement, and the Territory’s history
“Hang on to it, Alice!”
would certainly seem to have confirmed
their opinion.
Several years ago I came on some
Australian cuttings from “Chambers’s
Journal,” which included an article by
novelist Albert Dorrington, written in the
1890’s. Evidently at the time the place
was being boosted as a worth-while field
for closer-settlement, Dorrington, who
knew Northern Australia well, discounted
that opinion, and pointed out that of the
many Chinese who had prospected in that
country none had established farming
settlements, though they were much more
capable than most Australians of making
a living from relatively, poor soil and in
isolated conditions. — Lyle (N.S.W.).
Coastal Shipping
V. Collins (B. 9/11/ ’49) on socialisa-
tion mentions the Commonwealth Ship-
ping Board and the age-limit set on the
life of coastwise vessels under private
ownership. Excluding Government-owned
ships, modern and Up-to-date vessels in
the trade could be numbered on the
fingers. A stroll round that part of any
Australian port devoted to coastal berths
is a stroll through a marine junk-yard.
Private firms just don’t seem to be build-
ing, and the repair bills for some of their
venerable old wrecks must be colossal.
Repairs find their way, via freights, to
the public’s pocket. The Government
may run its line at a loss, but a. ship-
owner must at least break even,, or it is
the receiver for him.
I am as conservative as any sailor that
ever signed articles, and “Good enough
for Nelson, good enough for you” always
seemed a good phrase to me, but the state
of the Australian coastal fleet gives me
to think. Queensland sugar and West-
ralian timber must be moved by sea, and
Tasmania is an island, anywiay.
Only the lifting of the Act which forbids
overseas orders for vessels is going to help
the coast. Government shipowning for
the purpose of trade is folly. ' I have said
some hard things about owners in my
time, but never served one I couldn’t at
least argue with, face to face (even Lord
Inchcape). A Government shipping line’s
first object will be to jump with Govern-
ment policy and not to serve the shipper
and the public.— Salt Horse Pom (Vic.),
Sydney’s Transport Tangle
The argument as to the merits and
demerits of buses and trams overlooks a
major point, with the result that the truths
adduced as to each are really only half-
truths. In London the major part of the
city’s transport system consists of the
railways-both underground and surface
-with buses and trams caring the
residue of passengers. In New York,
Chicago, Paris, Berlin and other major
cities, the railways do the main job, road
transport being auxiliary.
In those places the masses of the
workers are transported by rail into the
city proper. Road transport, whether
tram or bus, caters mainly for the shorter
journeys and is intended to cope with
shopping crowds and like traffic.
In West London, for instance, two
railways, the Underground District and
the Great Southern, conveyed passengers
right into the city ; trams and buses
carried their loads to Hammersmith,
Shepherd Bush, etc. —on the fringe of the
business area, .
Features of these cities are their wide
roads, constructed to take several lanes
of vehicular traffic in both directions, as
well as the wide footpaths which elimi-
nate the necessity for pedestrians to step
on the road to make any sort of speed.
Melbourne’s streets are very much
wider than those of Sydney, and tram
and bus traffic can travel comfortably
without snarling up the traffic flow every
time a passenger wishes to get on or off.
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth likewise
boast back-alleys as wide as Sydney’s
Pitt-, Elizabeth- and Castlereagh-streets;
Sydney expects its trams to do the job
of a railway system without affording
them the room to manoeuvre for the task.
To remove the trams and replace them
with buses would require a greater
number of buses to handle the same
number of passengers, because of the
lower capacity of the buses. This must
result in greater cost. Better flow of
traffic might be provided by such a move,
however, because it would not be neces-
sary to route all the buses over the same
roads alternative routes could be used
to provide a closer service for passengers
mercial Sfic° W P nvate and com -
The only scheme which will really cure
Sydney’s traffic ills js a major road-
widening scheme costing millions. The
fact is that no matter what type of trans-
port is provided for Sydney’s city, it
will have to use King-, Hunter-, Bridge-,
Elizabeth-, Gastlereagh-, Pitt-,. Elizabeth-
and Goulburn-streets—and not one of
these streets is fit to carry modern pas-
senger traffic. Park-street is one of the
few streets in Sydney bearing any re-
semblance to an efficient highway. The
cost of converting the rest of the city
area would be paralysing.
The answer to the problem at the
present time seems to lie in educating
Sydney people to walk a little further
and terminate all transport services at
points such as Railway-square, College-
street, Pyrmont Bridge and Wynyard-
street. Construction of another city
underground railway on the lines of
London’s Inner Circle might serve , our
grandchildren. —Jindivick (N.S.W.).
Soil-fertility
“Exhaustion of the soil from a century
of use, no matter how efficient the modern
scientific methods” (B. 26/10/’49), is not
a convincing explanation of those higher
yields in Scottish agriculture a cenutry ago
compared with today. Much of the land
in question has been in use for centuries,
perhaps from the early middle ages, yet
in the 1800’s it-was-producing better than
ever. Further improvement in farming
practice should have brought still better
results. ' -
Provided it be properly handled, land
should remain indefinitely fertile. Pro-
fessor King, in his Farmers of Forty Cen-
turies, writes of areas in China and Japan
as productive as ever after 4000 years of
cropping.
No doubt the reduced yields of late
years can be attributed to depletion of
the soil of “minerals, organic matter, or
coherent physical structure,” but I suspect
the reason for that has been neglect by
modern farmers to treat the land as their
fathers did. 1
The “soil miner,” as Americans term
the reckless, exploitative farmer, has been
to the fore in Britain as well as in Aus-
tralia and the U.S.A. He has been helped
by a law, passed about a generation ago,
which granted tenants freedom of crop-
ping. Landlords could no longer insist
on leases, on the lines of those initiated
by the famous Coke of Holkham, which
bound the tenant to practise a rotation of
crops that would prevent loss of fertility.
—Kanimbla (N.S.W.).
Cadging
I endorse H. A. Lindsay’s remarks
about juvenile cadging, but I think his
remedy—that the schools should rigidly
prohibit the soliciting of donations —ds
not likely to be put into effect. In Queens-
land, at least, the primary schools actively
encourage the practice.
When the Education Department has
built the school, devoid of any refine-
ments, and provided the teaching staff, it’s
apparently quite satisfied that it has con-
formed to all the principles of free edUta-
tion. Consequently any improvements
that the school committee considers neces-
sary have to be provided by those
generous-minded people who can never
say no. Sometimes donations are solicited
from door to door, and sometimes funds
are raised by fetes whereat the same
section of the populace pays outrageous
prices for rubbish.
Both methods are iniquitous, and are
not likely to discourage the “something
for nothing” attitude so prevalent today,
not only among children, but among
adults as well. The only cure is a con-
sistent refusal to contribute to any of
these schemes, and that rests with the
general public father than with any one
section.— Seahawk (Q.).
Asia
I can’t accept “Walnick’s” statement
(B. 2/11 /’49) that “the colored peoples,
who occupy by far the larger part of the
earth, are lower in the scale of evolution.”
Take a few physical characteristics
'first. In shape of head, the Mongoloids
are the furthest evolved race, though
they would be judged most primitive from
point of view of limb proportions.
From the aspect of brain size, the Eskimos
are the furthest evolved of all races.
Negroes have the most evolved) lips ; the
most ape-like people of all in this respect
being ourselves. The general conclusion
among anthropologists is that some races
are more evolved in) some ways and less
evolved in other ways.
If it is a question of intelligence, “W.”
might be interested to know that so far
psychologists have brought forward
nothing that would even suggest that there
are differences in this sphere between
racial groups. There is no factual basis
on which any racial group can be
relegated to a status of intellectual in-
feriority ; and, in any case, the terms
“superiority” and “inferiority” are not
applicable to races as wholes.
Regarding the art of government; there
are many tribal organisations which are
more complicated than the structure of a
civilised State, There is no fundamental
difference between the organisation of a
State as defined by constitutional law
and the organisation of a tribe as
defined by c'ustom, and some “colored
peoples” have been able to establish
States in the proper sense of the
term; Iroquois, Dahomey, Ashanti, Benin,
and so on. Similarly the law of the
“colored peoples” is a genuine form of
law, endowed with sanctions no less
effective than those of our own legal
system.
Arguments based on cultural record
will not hold water either. Civilisation as
we know it was developed in the Asia
Minor area, whence it spread to
Egypt, Greece, etc. There is no reason to
believe that this spread has ceased. There
may be a time when the “colored peoples”
will draw level with us, and may even
surpass us. —D. H. (N.S.W.).


TALKIES
"Warning to Wantons."
While it has not the light brilliance of
Mary Mitchell’s novel on which it is
based, this English film (an Aquila pro-
duction at Sydney Embassy) is one of the
most amusing of light English comedies
sighted for a long time. It reports the
doings of a fetching little hussy who goes
after males, with all the enthusiasm of a
confirmed angler, except that her methods
leave considerably less to chance and
that she shows her game considerably less
mercy than the most ruthless fisherman
might accord to a trout. Still, the young
lady’s spirit is the thing that counts, and
her lighthearted, if determined, angling,
done, as it is, more for sheer love of
the sport than any particular liking for
the quarry, is very pretty to watch.
Her first fish is only a tiddler, a rather
eager young country fellow whom she
bags to help her escape to Paris from
the convent where her mother has wisely
incarcerated her; her second is slightly
better —her mother’s boy-friend, whom she
hooks effortlessly—while her third is a
wealthy young American whom she tosses
back in the stream very smartly upon
sighting a most worth-while catch cruising
serenely in very tricky water. The big
fellow, Count Anton Cardak, has more
than enough experience of the game to
protect him from the young lady’s in-
stinctive skill, but, rather taken with her
style and methods, invites her to his
castle for a spell, an invitation readily
accepted, and approved of by a mother
now very worried about being beaten
at* her own game.
At the castle the young hussy finds a
set-up much to her liking—the count has
a son about to be married to a young
countess from a neighboring estate —so,
keeping one line flicking around the count
himself while he plays amusedly around
the bait, she gets out fresh tackle and
goes after the son in earnest and has
him gasping on the bank in short order.
The young man’s fiancee, however, is
pretty hot at the same business herself,
although her methods consist more of
jagging her catch on the end of a hunk
of manilla and skull-dragging him in.
Seeing her prospective husband being
lifted from under her nose she shanghais
the interloper, drives her some miles into
the wilderness and dumps her, barefoot
and clad in something like an old bag,
near a peasant village where even the
language is foreign. Then she returns to
her marriage after covering her tracks by,
leaving a neat little arrangement of clothes
by a deep, dark pool to convince any
searchers that the visitor has been
drowned.
The village, however, is, not unnatur-
ally, peopled by an even proportion of
males and females, and the castaway soon
attaches herself to the pick of the former,
who, despite language difficulties, thinks
the best part of the heavens has fallen
down beside him, an illusion which is
rudely shattered when the count, who
knows his women, turns up on horseback
to take the young lady back to the castle,
where he finally snaps the bait and, with
all the trimmings in the way of orchids,
champagne and whatnot, pops the ques-
tion to her. . She, however, finds that
having fished the pool out her line is
well and truly snagged in the village, and
hies herself off to the rustic life with her
peasant, leaving all her catches to find
their own way back to the water.
The film tells the story in very much
the right spirit, showing off in a vein of
light comedy the hussy’s sparkling talent
at her game as its main theme and main
amusement. There may be more danger-
ous and alluring little minxes in films
than French actress Anne Vernon, who
plays the part in this one, but she makes
a sufficiently fair fist of the role to
account satisfactorily for her goings-on
and her various catches. The young
rustic she goes off with in the end might
have been better cast —someone like the
John! Thais NOT the symphony concert /”
handsome male animal who ran off with
the baker’s wife in the French film of
that name—or played up with added em-
phasis to give more likelihood to her
eventual running-off with him.
Sonia Holm, as the young countess, has
a dark flashing beauty and intelligence
and uses both in her acting, and, indeed,
the best parts of the film are those where
the two women get together in some of
that wonderful feline purring and spitting
and scratching which mere males can only
marvel at. The best performance in the
film comes from Harold Warrender, nicely
decorated with beard and trimmings. He
plays the count like a fine old hound,
one who has chased enough cats in his
time and been scratched often enough to
know their games and tricks inside out
—but one who, if it looks like a good
run, still chases ’em for the love of it.
"The Ghost Goes West."
It is over 12 years since this English
comedy was released, so the present com-
mentator dropped in last week to see it
again at Sydney Esquire with some trepi-
dation, even remembering it as a tiptop
show in its day. So many revivals of what
were hailed as excellent entertainers not
more than a few years ago turn out, by
present standards, to be very grim fare,
horribly overacted by slightly animated
hams and directed with painfully obvious
striving for every laugh, tear or excite-
ment that could be wrung out of the
piece.
It was not altogether expected then
that “The Ghost Goes West” should still
be a highly amusing comedy as good as
most and a lot better than many post-war
productions of its kind. Possibly the clue
to its quality lies in the fact that it is an
English film. American films seem to age
more readily, either because they were
very dreadful or because their technique
is steadily improving, or both. British
producers, on the other hand, were mak-
ing their best films—and better than
Hollywood—just before the war and
before I. Arthur Rank took over and
mass production set in.
In those days it seemed that producers
went to a lot of trouble about selecting
suitable material, and even more trouble
to make it into a film, generally with the
aid of tried and tested players from the
stage. Rank’s mass production apparently
put them on the same basis as Holly-
wood—making “stars” overnight, and
keeping the cameras going by feeding
them any old thing at all that had the
semblance of a plot. Films have this
much in common with the stage: while
they are produced purely as a money-
making commodity it will take them a
long, long time to get anywhere ; only
when the right balance is achieved—as it
sometimes is in England and Hollywood
and often is in France and Italy—between
profit-making, technical skill and the arts
of author, director and actor have they
much chance of maintaining intelligent
standards.
At any rate it is very doubtful if many
of the films being made by British studios
today will come out as fresh in 12 years
as does “The Ghost Goes West.” The
acting, if not particularly subtle by
present standards, is efficient, and the
direction is smooth and fully appreciative
of the nature of the light nonsense it is
handling the story of Glourie castle and
its ghost being crated up in Scotland,
shipped to America and rebuilt in
Florida. As well as playing the present
owner of the castle, Robert Donat plays
the unfortunate ghost of his ancestor
sentenced, because of his ignoble death
on the battlefields a few centuries ago, to
haunt the place until such time as it can
find one of the hated McHaggis dan—
or something like that—and make him
admit that one Glourie is better than 50
of the McHaggis. Donat seems more at
home in these two parts than he has been
in any others except that of “Mr. Chips.”
A good deal of the film’s comedy
springs from good-natured English-U.S.
rivalry—the House of Commons protests
against the acquisition of its historic
castles and its ghosts by American
millionaires, while the American House of
Reps is just as indignant over the entry
into the U.S. without passport or any
check-up by immigration authorities of
a foreign ghost. A further ration of light
humor is provided by the gentle tilting of
the English filmsmiths at American insti-
tutions like advertising stunts, chain
stores and such things as the rebuilding
of the castle complete with concealed
radios in the old suits of armor, a lake,
gondolas and Italian tenors, etc.
All that material, handled with the
lightest touch as it is, still comes over
very well and makes most agreeable enter-
tainment. Eugene Pallette, these days
reported as living in retirement, turns in
an excellent performance by any film
standards as the American chain-store
magnate who buys the castle to satisfy his
daughter’s whim, and then finds he has
the greatest advertising stunt of his career
on his hands. The other players, includ-
ing Jean Parker as the daughter, and an-
other chain-store millionaire who doubts
the existence of the spirit until the
moment he boasts descent from the
McHaggis clan, all look as though they
might be acting in one of this year’s
productions.
"Father Was a Full Back."
This reviewer, after inspecting an un-
countable number of American films
about baseball or football, still has to
confess to being as bewildered as ever
about both, an ignorance which becomes
a considerable handicap in sampling such
films as “Father Was a Full Back,” a
20th Century Fox release at Sydney
Mayfair. Fred Mac Murray is father, and
his main troubles have to do with being
coach of a university team which, with its
consistently losing performances, looks
like costing him his job.
Mr. Mac Murray’s other worries stem
mainly from the fact that his domestic
life is much after what Hollywood seems
to maintain is the common American
pattern. He has a patient and understand-
ing wife (Maureen O’Hara) and two
daughters, one of whom is in her ’teens
and suffering acute boy trouble, and a
younger one who cooks up all manner of
schemes for the benefit of her sister.
The two youngsters are slightly better
than what is usually cast in these roles,
and the whole piece has enough threads
of plot tangled through it to keep it mildly
amusing.
After coasting along, as they usually
do before Christmas with lightweights and
odds and ends, Sydney film-houses are
setting loose their “Christmas specials.” As
a starter, St. James-Liberty have released
M.-G.-M.’s technicolor “Neptune’s
Daughter,” with Esther Williams; the
Regent has Cary Grant in “I Was a Male
War Bride”; the State, “Jolson Sings
Again” with Larry Parks and Jolson’s
voice ; the Century, “Everybody Does It,”
with Paul Douglas and Linda Darnell,
the pair who provided most of the amuse-
ment in “A Letter to Three Wives”;
while, with “a gala opening” the Lyceum-
Victory have released Charles Chauvel’s
latest Australian film, “The Sons of
Matthew.”
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 48
Across.
I—Duck-wing1—Duck-wing has one with Edward
when describing one of strong,
stubborn views. (11)
6 About to kiss a king. (3)
7 The death of a vague quantity
found in the heart of a sponge. (8)
8— A box-office result caused by a
stony critic. (5)
11 — Tempering a dead queen with a
fish. (9)
12 — Filter is upset by the first lady. (5)
13— Gear container returning the in-
toxicant. (6)
15 —Thirty-one days to ring the loca-
tion of “The Playboy of the
Western World.” (4)
18 — The best backing has a drink. (4)
19 — Asiatic sailors. (6)
24 A narrow mound of gravelly drift
reeks in disoxder. (5)
25 — N.S.W. town is not quite in its
birthday suit. (9)
26 — Gee, when lam dead the ‘goblin
appears. (5)
27 — To contend for or against a
great Sussex bowler’s sister Milli-
cent? (8)
28 — Used to be returning the cutter.
(3)
29 — The history of individual develop-
ment landing on the book of the
Bible. (11)
(CRYPTIC TYPE.)
Down.
1— They bring you close to the
singers when open to tease girls.
(5, 7)
2 To apprentice in an impression. (6)
3 An example in deportment when
batting. (8) •
4 Deadening the feeling of Crosby
at last. (7)
5 Diana gets alterations to absorb
thoroughly into the system. (6)
6 The nonsense he is to utter in a
Scottish town. (8)
9 —A King and a location of the
Taj Mahal. (4)
10 —These felons upset Reynard and
his family on the cow-catchers.
(3, 9)
14—Negative alternative. (3)
16 — Hoot at knowledge with pence
and shillings for library equip-
ment. (4-4)
17 — Idriess, instructed by a large
number to imitate a coloratura
soprano. (8)
20 — Peas hidden in part of a church.
(4)
21 — A number chant when tighten-
ing. (7)
22 — French death goes up thus in a
Norwegian town. (6)
23 — Threepence in the steamer
wanders off. (6)
Solution to Crossword No. 47.


Have YOU
sufficient
LIFE ASSURANCE?
No man should so overload himself with
assurance that the payment of premiums may
become an embarrassment during his lifetime.
On the other hand, no man—at least no man
with a dependent family—can afford to sit back
complacently with too little life assurance.
Indeed, the amount of life assur-
ance that you should have is of
utmost importance. It is YOUR
responsibility to see that the total
of your policies will be sufficient to
afford your family the protection
that they will need, should the
emergency arise.
Now is the time to make provision
for the future. Not necessarily
protection against the possibility
II ft)
lid
111 l
rjDtflJ
m
recall II
[ill
ij bd hd an no ii I*
i'an an cm CD 11H
nmnnununii n
I iNi
I N
of death only, but provision for all manner of
purposes; the home you intend to build; educa-
tion for your family; financial independence in
your old age.
You can provide for these things with Life
Assurance ... Whole of Life Assurance payable
at death, and Endowment Assurance payable at
a determined date or at previous death. Examine
your situation now, and decide how much
assurance of both forms you should have.
A City Mutual Service
City Mutual will welcome the opportunity of
assisting you in your assurance
problems. Our officers will explain
the advantages of both types; will
tell you what premiums are pay-
able, and show you what you
gain with City Mutual Policies.
Remember, when you assure with
City Mutual you assure with
an old-established, wholly mutual
Society.
City Mutual Facts
• A purely Mutual, entirely Australian Society.
• Incorporated in New South Wales in 1878.
• Liberal Policy conditions.
The
k
LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
LTD.
Head Office: Cr. Hunter and Bligh Streets, Sydney.
Telephone: BW 2021.
BRANCH OFFICES:
VICTORIA!
City Mutual Building,
45 9 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
TASMANIA:
City Mutual Building,
26 Elizabeth Street,
Hobart,
QUEENSLAND:
City Mutual Building,
307 Queen Street,
Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
City Mutual Building,
jl3 King William St.,
Adelaide.
WEST. AUSTRALIA!
City Mutual Building,
62 St. George’s
Perth.
