

HATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY
PRO
C T
! 5
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
the Bulletin
The Bulletin,” Vol. 70—No. 3624
Wednesday, July 27, 1949
Price 6c».-
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
EIGHT miles from Hull, in the
County of Yorkshire, is Bever-
ley, a quiet, old-fashioned market
town, incorporated in 1129, and
which possesses two remarkably fine
churches—Beverley Minster and St.
Mary’s Church. The former is com-
parable in size and splendour to
some English cathedrals. Three
hundred and thirty-four feet long
and 168 feet wide across the tran-
septs, this is one of the few great
churches which has a double set of
transepts. The west facade has two
slender twin towers in the perpen-
dicular style of architecture, the finest
of their kind in England.
Beverley Minster stands on the
site of a monastery founded in the
seventh century by John of Beverley,
Bishop of York, which replaced an
earlier chapel of St. John the Evange-
list, to whom the present church is
dedicated. Beverley Minster was de-
stroyed by the Danes in 866; it was
rebuilt but suffered severe damage
by fire in 1188, although much of
the Norman core was preserved and
is incorporated in the present church.
The many styles of architecture used
in the Minster during the course of
centuries have been so skilfully
blended that the edifice appears to
be of single design.
An example of the English school
of sculptors of the thirteenth century
can be seen in the magnificent Percy
Shrine near the altar, shown in the
accompanying photograph; it is early
English in architectural style.
In the year 938 a grant of sanc-
tuary was given the church by Athel-
stan; by this .grant a fugitive who
succeeded in reaching the “Fridstol,”
a stone chair still within the Minster,
could claim the protection of the
church against the law.
IN BEVERLEY MINSTER IS THE FAMOUS PERCY SHRINE


Learn
freelance
Journalism
nt HOMF
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE .
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. U»
AGE
The Red Page
A LADY OF LETTERS.
In The Admirable Lady Mary (Dent)
Lewis Gibbs, as he himself says of “Lewis
Melville’s” Lady Mary Wortley Montagu,
“adds nothing of consequence to the
excellent work” of “George Paston”
(Miss E. M. Symonds), who put out a
full-length biography, with much new
material, in 1907. Or very little. The
manuscript from which the admirable
Lady Mary’s letters from Turkey were
first published has been found in the
Hampstead Central Library, and proves
that there was such a manuscript And
then there is Mr. Gibbs’s interpretation,
which tries to get a better hearing for
Mr. Wortley Montagu. But no news
about her quarrel with Alexander Pope,
and nothing new about her reasons for
going into exile.
Still, Mr. Gibbs is right to remind us
of Lady Mary, whose brilliant letters
everyone intends reading some day, and
to send us to look over the complete text
of her verses, the best of which do not
seem to get into anthologies. They are
few, but the best of them, the Town
Eclogues and the Epistle to Mrs. Murray
from Arthur Grey, her Footman (who
had endeavored to ravish her), are wonder-
fully alive. Or take her parody of Pope’s
verses on the country lovers killed by
lightning in a haystack. Possibly the
worst things Pope ever did, he was very
proud of them, and sent them to several
friends in letters, including Lady Mary:
When Eastern lovers feed the fun’ral fire
On the same pile their faithful fair expire;
Here pitying Heaven that virtue mutual
found
And blasted both, that it might neither
wound.
Hearts so sincere th’ Almighty saw, well-
pleased,
Sent his own lightning, and the victims
seized
Lady Mary, later quarrelling with Pope,
began circulating her parody as the copy
of her answer to his letter, immediately
upon its receipt in “an inn at Dover”—
i.e., something she had hastily dashed-off
to catch the mail:
Here lie John Hughes and Sarah Drew;
Perhaps you’ll say, What’s that to you?
Believe me, friend, much may be said
On this poor couple that are dead.
On Sunday next they should have married;
But see how oddly things have carried!
On Thursday last it rained and lighten’d;
these tender lovers, soaked and frightened,
Sheltered beneath the cocking hay
In hopes to pass the storm away:
But the bold thunder found them out
(Commissioned for this end, no doubt),
And, seizing on their trembling breath.
Consigned them to the shades of de^h.
Who knows if ’twas not kindly done?
For had they seen the next year’s sun
A beaten wife and cuckold swain
Had jointly curs’d the marriage-chain.
Now they are happy in their doom
For P. has wrote upon their tomb.
It is slight enough, but look at the
mock-unctuousness of “believe me,
friend,” and the innuendo that the lovers’
noblest service, in Pope’s eyes, was that
they had given him something to write
about: this beautiful woman, a woman
of one romance and at least two mys-
teries, had the wit which makes every-
thing disconcertingly plain.
Born Mary Pierrepont in 1689, she
became Lady Mary in the following year
when her father succeeded to the Earl-
dom of Kingston. On her mother’s side.
Fielding the novelist was her second
cousin. She was studious, but never
learned or a bluestocking; she wrote
verses as a child, and when she was 13
or 14, and he was 25, met Edward
Wortley Montagu, admired his scholar-
ship and his friendship with Addison,
and, because he was, though not poor,
not rich enough to gain favor with her
father, now Marquis of Dorchester, she
wrote him love-letters in the guise of
friendly notes to his sister, Anne. Anne
replied with the same kind of letters, dic-
tated by her brother, and what Lady
Mary’s father might have said if he had
known that phrases addressed to Miss
Anne were really meant for her brother
is nobody’s business:
“My dear, dear, adieu! lam entirely
yours, and wish nothing more than that it
may be some time or other in my power
to convince you that there is nobody dearer
than yourself to”
Sister Anne died ; Mr. Montagu wrote
direct; letters were delivered by orange-
women and menservants; some were
intercepted, and the family spoke harsh
words, but letters continued to be written
and answered; yet in all this romantic
atmosphere the correspondence was full
of hard-thinking and hard-bargaining—
not about money, since Mr, Montagu was
willing to take her with “nightgown and
petticoat” only, but about whether they
were suitable to each other; he putting
her to careful inquisitions to test her
future possibilities as a gentleman’s wife ;
she bringing him to heel by saying that
his attitude showed clearly that he didn’t
really love her, and fanning his jealousy
over a “Mr. K.” The day came when
Mr. Montagu was to call for her with a
coach-and-six, but her father, perhaps
suspecting something, sent her on a
journey; Mr. Montagu followed, caught
up with the party at a staging-inn, where,
from his conspiratorial secrecy, he was
mistaken for a highwayman, and in some
manner unrecorded he stole her away,
and about the end of August, 1712, they
were married.
For the next two years Lady Mary is
seen, a loving wife, looking after the baby
boy who is to cause her so much sorrow
in later life, scoldmg her husband from
various country dwellings for staying in
London on business, and lecturing him on
the necessity for finding a seat in Parlia-
ment, and, a matter in which he needed
no guidance, how to get on in the world.
He became member for Westminster
and a Junior Lord of the Treasury, and
brought her to a London house from
which she began to move about to some
purpose. George I liked her more than
she liked him ; once she excused herself
from a Court function, although the King
tried to persuade her to stay, and on the
way out she mentioned to some courtier
what she was doing, whereupon he picked
her up and carried her back; the doors
opened; she was re-announced; and
thereupon, with the tactlessness which
never left her, she told the King the
manner of her return.
She was now writing, not for publica-
tion, since it was not respectable for a
lady’s name to appear on a title-page,
but to amuse drawing-rooms and ac-
quaintances. It is thought Pope arranged
publication of her Town Eclogues, “the
production of a lady of quality.” Her
husband, who had resigned from the
Treasury because he disliked Robert
Walpole, was in 1716 made Ambassador
to Turkey ; and Lady Mary went with
him —a long way, in those days, for a
woman to go. In Turkey she wrote her
Embassy Letters, her most complete per-
formance, printed shortly before her
death ; and her husband was unfortunate
enough to get in the way of Austria’s
designs upon Turkey, and, at the instiga-
tion of the Austrian Court, was recalled.
Lady Mary returned to teach England
the Turkish secret of inoculation for
smallpox, and unwilling to give an ugly
French admirer, M. Remond, her affec-
tion, she gave him instead some advice
to sell South Sea stock. He insisted upon
her keeping and investing for him the
money thus “won” ; she invested it, and
sold it at a small profit, but the buyers
did ndt complete the transaction; the
price fell fast, and she was left with the
stock reduced to half its value. She
wrote to ask M. Remond what to do ; he
replied with a love-letter; but after
several exchanges had made it quite clear
that Lady Mary was not to be had for
love or money, he turned upon her and
accused her of leading him on to rob
him.
Lady Mary managed to hush the
matter up ; and while her husband went
on making himself one of the richest men
in England, she went on saying and writ-
ing exactly what she meant and felt,
which in this world is a very dangerous
thing to do ; she never thoroughly realised
that wit can make enemies, or that gay
writing can be taken as an outward sign
of immoral living. Thus, when she fell
out with Pope, her reputation was trussed
and roasted and ready for his carving-
knife.
The tradition is that Pope, whose letters
to her grow more and more tender, and
even libidinous, broke sufficiently through
his defensive enamel to proceed from
words to deeds, whereupon Lady Mary
was unfeeling enough to seem amused.
Mr. Gibbs thinks it more probable that
Pope suspected her of joining with Lord
Hervey and the Duke of Wharton in
anonymous attacks upon him. First ap-
peared a ballad, in which she was ac-
cused of hatching her poems under the
wings of a capon; then, in the Dunciad,
Pope brought up the Remond scandal,
about the “hapless Monsieur” who
Much complains at Paris
Of wrongs from Duchesses and Lady Maries;
and the attacks continued, fixing the
names “Sappho” on Lady Mary,
“Worldly,” “Gripus,” “Shylock” and
“Avidien” on her husband. Pope was
still at it five years later in his imitation
of Horace, speaking of Sappho’s friends,
“poxed by her love, or libelled by her
hate” ; and Lady Mary, foolishly, accord-
ing to the experts, answered with the
suggestion that Pope’s verses were “hard
as his heart, and as his birth, obscure”;
But as thou hat’st, be hated by mankind,
And with the emblem of thy crooked mind
Mark’d on thy back, like Cain by God’s
own hand,
Wander, like him, accursed through the
land.
This reference to his crooked back gave
him the shield, which malignancy always
welcomes, for more vile attacks ; and in
various of his works, strung out through
the years. Pope tells the world that Lady
Mary’s linen was dirty ; her toilet was
greasy; she was a wanton ; her husband
was as much a dog as she was a bitch ;
and that they lived - parsimoniously,
making a half-bottle of vinegar serve for
wine at dinner, but might vary this to
celebrate the news that their ne’er-do-well
son was drowned. Lady Mary’s sister
Frances, Lady Mar, had accompanied her
rebellious Scotch husband into exile,
where he had driven her mad by ill-
treatment. Lady Mary took care of her
and was allowed £5OO a year from the
Earl of Mar’s estate for expenses, where-
upon it was suggested that she “would
not lay out half so much.” Pope seized
upon this story and revived the Remond
affair for the line: “She starved a sister,
and forswore a debt.”
It was the old story of the good
amateur versus the good professional;
moreover. Lady Mary had an aristocrat’s
and a wife’s reputation to lose, whereas
Pope had only a satirist’s to gain. He
won ; he completely destroyed her reputa-
tion for her own times and for times long
after; and perhaps we should .not be
surprised that in July, 1739, at the age
of 50, Lady Mary went abroad and stayed
abroad for twenty years.
The mystery here is that neither Lady
Mary nor her husband gave any reason
for her exile. Some suggest that she went
abroad for a holiday and stayed on and
on. But Mr. Gibbs leans to the theory
that she had agreed with her husband not
to return to England until his death. She
had brought notoriety upon him with her
wit—although there seems no evidence,
and little suggestion, nowadays, that she
ever did anything to disgrace him—and
she took this way of leaving him to a
peaceful old-age.
Her twenty years in Europe were spent
mainly in Italy ; she ran a poultry-farm
and dairy, toured in Venice, Florence and
Naples, spent four years at Avignon,
went by sea to Genoa and back, through
a war, to Brescia, and bought a palace
for £100; she wrote letters to her
daughter, Countess of Bute, whose hus-
band was to be the first power behind the
throne of George 111 and, as reputed
lover of the Princess Royal, the most
hated man in England. She wrote con-
stantly to her husband, but their letters
never say why she remained in exile ;
and she always spoke affectionately to
him and of him.
Throughout Mr. Gibbs’s biography
may be felt Lady Mary’s distrust of life,
or perhaps an inability to enjoy it, as
though she had continually to be lighting
her wit, like a fire to keep her warm;
and in the end it burnt her: it is strangely
annoying to see her so hardly done-by,
and yet to feel that any pity we might
show for her would be not so much re-
sented as not understood ; she had little
of that commodity herself, and was born
of a quality and a courage which did not
require it of others.
Photographs of Jerusalem.
A complete photographic record of the
holy places in Jerusalem is an unusual
venture in Australian publishing; and,
for that matter, an unusual venture lor
an Australian photographer. But the
cameraman of The Holy City (Angus
and Robertson) is Frank Hurley; and
one would never be wholly surprised if
Hurley turned up with a set of photo-
graphs taken on the moon.
Judging by the rapidity with which his
books are coming out —this one follows
hard on Shackle ton’s Argonauts and
Sydney: A Camera Study —there must
be a considerable demand for his work.
The Holy City, because of its religious
interest, should enlarge his audience.
The publishers state:
Because Jerusalem is the centre of three
great religions, absolute impartiality has
been our policy. The foreword is by a
Franciscan monk; Protestant church leaders
warmly welcome the book; and the presi-
dent of the congregation of the Temple
Emanuel, Sydney, wrote, “This is a book
which I suggest must be in the hands of
everyone for whom the name Jerusalem has
a spiritual significance.”
Frank Hurley took the photographs
when he was official photographer to the
British Ministry of Information in the
Middle East. There are close on 90
plates, 26 of them in color, each with an
explanatory note; and the large book
has been handsomely bound in white
with gold lettering. The best pictures
are those of wild and rocky hills, of a
flock of sheep in the dawn, of potters
working at their craft, and the portrait-
studies of Jewish and Arab types, where
the photographer has been free to select
his subjects and to arrange—or wait for
nature to arrange—his compositions ;
and some of these photographs are really
beautiful. There is less artistic interest
in the views of shrines, churches, mos-
ques and the like—except where the
architecture is in itself attractive—but
very often these are the places of the
greatest documentary or historical in-
terest.
Covering the holy places, the people,
the Old City, the surrounding country
and the Dead Sea and, in the text,
supplying the appropriate Biblical refer-
ences the book seems to say everything
that could be said about Jerusalem.
Plagued by a Novelist.
Albert Camus has a quotation from
Robinson Crusoe on the title page of his
novel The Plague, translated from the
French by Stuart Gilbert (Hamish Hamil-
ton, London):
“It is as reasonable to represent one kind
of imprisonment by another as it is to rep-
resent anything that really exists by that
which exists not.”
His book is an exercise in the matter-
of-fact manner with which Defoe re-
created London’s plague year; and evi-
dently we are to conclude from his quo-
tation that his setting of plague at Oran
in the 1940’s is a convention under which
the doings of a population under fear of
death may be studied.
As Dr. Rieux is sending his sick wife
away to a mountain sanatorium, the rats
are coming out to bleed and die in the
streets, as is their habit when announcing
bubonic plague. The first human victims
create little alarm ; gradually it is borne
in upon the dilatory authorities, afraid of
upsetting the public, that the town must
be isolated and the people warned and
medically policed.
A young journalist decides to break
out of the town by bribing the sentries,
so anxious to rejoin his wife that he is
blind to the immorality of spreading the
plague ; a priest preaches a terrific sermon
suggesting that the plague is a visitation
upon the sins of the citizens; a criminal
finds sanctuary in the isolated city from
the pursuit of the police ; a public official
wanders through the book constructing
and reconstructing the first sentence of a
novel which is to be so perfect that, on
reading it, the publisher will call his staff
together and say; “Gentlemen, hats off! ”
Above these private lives, and the
public dead huddled into community
graves or piled into a train carriage to
go up in smoke and resented odors in
the crematorium overlooking the sea, is
the picture of a people grown apathetic
to fear or courage, going on living be-
cause there is nothing else to do ; and
the author’s argument, stated by old
Tarrou, who organised the hospital
squads:—
“I know positively that each of us
has the plague within him; no one, no one
on earth, is free from it. And I know, too,
that we must keep endless watch on our-
selves lest in a careless moment we breath
in somebody’s face and fasten the infection
on him. What’s natural is the microbe.
All the rest —health, integrity, purity—is a
product of the will it’s a wearisome
business, being plague-stricken. But it’s
still more wearying to refuse to be it.
That’s why everybody in the world to-day
looks so tired; everyone is more or less
sick of the plague”....
You feel that maybe he’s got some-
thing there, but how unfortunate that old
M. Tarrou should die of the plague be-
fore he could explain to M. Camus ex-
actly what he meant.
Gone to the Test Match: John Arlott
(Longmans). An account of the Aus-
tralians’ tour of England in 1948.
Pleasantly-written and, because the
author keeps his eye on the ball instead
of his dictionary of similes, more like a
description of cricket than are most de-
scriptions of .cricket these days.
♦ * * *
Fairbridge Farm: Ruby Fairbridge
(Paterson Press, Perth). An Australian
reprint of the book first published in
England as Pinjarra, in which Kingsley
Fairbridge’s widow tells the story of her
South African husband’s struggle as
farmer, builder, teacher, organiser, realist
and visionary to bring out waifs from
England and make them into Australian
farmers, , against difficulties, mostly
financial, which seem to have caused his
early death.
,** * *
One to Play: Herbert Adams (Mac-
donald). When Gerald Challen was
found killed in his house that had been
set on fire, suspicion fell upon his
divorced wife, who had popped in that
day to kidnap their two children, and on
Andrew Heseltine, her co-respondent. Mr.
Adams’s smug amateur dick, Roger
Bennion, after a lot of cosy skullduggery
centring round the golf-course, solves the
problem, much as a golfer, after several
efforts to add up his score-card, night
proudly announce that he has done the
18 holes in 106, and not 109, as he had
first imagined.


TRUTH® IN ADVERTISING"
IHTHODV HUMERUS’
''x
S ■
I J dw (
m
vmL
Reliable high grade
< - A t>d S Sli
if,' r V w
i X!
V - 1 '*'v 'v.
'x ' O'-
h-/-. s- > "■
; ‘ v
; .
i mi ■'■ „ ’ i
-y d -~ jxij,
r >
-
AC:-- --WT
. cS -<*> V. ,•'- GP -P X
Xv, /I - 7 I/) .
\Ww *
i .f ].”■
■>
%
'X
\f*
r~
c<il
r r ;
XIIV ■
* -
r~r
\V
-. i 7. *
.. XXX'
»U i V -i
- •,;■ ' ■ l
. f
SPECIAL NOTICE
To our Country and Interstate Customers
Owing to the drastic curtailment of practically all
RAIL TRANSPORT, we have to advise that although
we are still accepting orders as usual, delays in the
despatching of same are unavoidable. You have our
assurance that, immediately the restrictions on
RAILWAY TRANSPORT are “EASED or LIFTED,
every endeavour will be made to despatch merchandise
which has been awaiting shipment BY THE FASTEST
POSSIBLE ROUTE.
No. 87
Horse Cultivator
Seven reversible tynes,
lever varies width o£
cut, wheel depth.
Price £6/2/6
„ , „ „ , , .
r X
A
r
iu
i
' f.
m
I
%
C 5
m
m
/■' *'•
fm
m
mm J
bb:.
&
m
:-■
us
C,T
m
L
S
vW
mr.
pic
* v -'
/a*
K
c¥
CE
J
i^or
Si
f' Vi
■■>-
r^:
H,
i:?S >. '!■
m
®r r "l
Ux# '
r
L
m
y
" 4
MMi
Agriculture Machinery
Bentall Hand Cliaffcutter
Model P.S.C. on four steel legs, spring loaded rising mouth, cuts
iin. and |in. Complete with feed box. £2O/14/-.
No. 7 Horse Cultivator
Fitted with five reversible tynes.
This Cultivator also has two
hilling steels supplied. Essential
to the farmer. Price ... £7/5/6
Reversible
Hillside Plough
Throws lOin. furrow, 6in. deep.
Spring steel beam and fitted with
a cast steel share. Plough weighs
1001 b. Price £l5/15/-
No. 8
Single Furrow Plough
Cuts Sin. furrow, has channel
steel beam, all steel with fixed
handles. Circular coulter fitted.
Price ;£ 15/7/6
AGRICULTURAL DEPT.—FOURTH FLOOR. ’PHONE; M 2401; BOX 3712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY
■
Lv->
“Slmac” Water Pumps
Cast iron body, brass valves.
Capacity 1,600 gallons per hour.
Plunger is fitted with leather
buckets. Price £5/16/6
f
Bentall Grinding Mill
No. 3 hand machine for grinding
or kibbling grain. Capacity,
151 b. grinding, 601 b. kibbling.
Price £9/12/6


The Bulletin
Vol. 70—No. 3624
Wednesday, July 27, 1949
PILGRIM’S PROGRESS.


the Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
THE HAUNTED MAN.
Mr. Chifley has the reputation of being
an adroit politician, but he will need more
than adroitness, if the Opposition is com-
petent, to extricate himself from the posi-
tion in which his cumulative actions and
utterances have placed him during the
past few months. His case is one of
those which proves how inevitably events
are apt to catch up with expediency.
No important statement which he has
made during the past two years will add
to his reputation. His prophecy, airily
framed, of a “Golden Age” has lived to
haunt him. His easy assumption that
all the inflated good living of the past
four or five years was due to his own
foresight and to the sovereign excellence
of the “Labor” policy and platform
stands revealed as a piece of either gross
and deliberate mountebankery or of self-
deception which would only be possible to
somebody completely dazzled with self-
conceit.
His party platform has proved a sham
and a delusion. Platforms normally are
supposed to be founded on principles.
One of the chief ones in the “Labor” plat-
form was allegedly based on the unshake-
able Australianism of the party and
affirmed that “Labor” was opposed to
submitting its fate to the judgment of the
Privy Council, which, in its eyes, was
supposed to be a foreign court to which
it was an indignity for an Australian
Government to appeal. But at the
beginning of this week Mr. Chifley (and
even more so his Attorney-General) were
waiting nervously for a momentous Privy
Council decision on their banking legisla-
tion, which the High Court declared
invalid.
In more personal matters affecting his
career and policy Mr. Chifley has proved
equally unlucky. Last year he bared his
heart to an interested House of Repre-
sentatives, making it clear that his bitter
“Labor” complex was born of what he
considered the injustice put upon him by
the Government in the 1917 railway strike
when, being thrown out of work by his
own lawlessness, he and others were
actually asked to sign an application form
for readmission to employment by the
Government.
The strike happened at a moment
when second Bullecourt, with all its
terrible fist of Australian casualties
and all its inspiration of Australian cour-
age and self-sacrifice, had just been
fought. Messines was through its first
phase. The Third Battle of Ypres was
developing to the stage of Menin Road.
On the day on which General Holmes,
one of Australia’s leading citizen soldiers,
was killed by a shell while conducting the
Premier of N. S. Wales over a battle-
field, a gathering of 4 able-bodied men,
mostly of military age, met in Sydney
and decided that on August 2, a few hours
ahead, a strike should be called to pre-
vent the introduction of a card system
for recording the work of employees in
the Randwick tramway workshops.
They alleged that the new system was,
in fact, the Taylor system, used in the
workshops of Henry Ford, a “speed-up”
system which had been repudiated by
American unions. While thousands of
Australians were dying in the day and
night fighting in the rain-drenched
swamps of north France, the organisers
of “Labor” in N. S, Wales delivered their
threat to the Chief Railway Commis-
sioner, Mr. Fraser, and were met with
moderation and reason, which has been
graphically pictured in the strike com-
mittee’s own official report at a later
stage:
The Chief Commissioner was very
courteous and gave every latitude for a
free and open discussion of the whole
question. After the case of the men had
been put he explained the system and the
reasons for introducing it. He denied that
it was the Taylor system and asked the
men to give it a three-months trial. At the
end of the three months an inquiry would
be held and if the system was as claimed
by the men it would be abolished.
The organisers of the affair, however, de-
manded an immediate abandonment of
the system. The secretary of the com-
mittee delivered an “ultimatum” to the
Commissioner next day. Every grievance
which could be mustered to justify the
extension of the wanton affair was fanned
up by agitators, so that while the Ypres
and Cambrai offensives, which cost the
British armies 449,000 casualties and the
A.I.F. 40,000-odd, went on, Mr. Chifley
and his companions, age-contemporaries
of the A.1.F., held the country in
jeopardy.
It seems only poetic justice that he is
now compelled to meet, at a crucial
moment of his career, a crisis which is
the l|neal descendant of the one in which
he was a participant 32 years ago and
which gave the founders of Communism
both their foothold in the “Labor” move-
ment and the technique which they are
using today to disrupt and paralyse the
country.
It is no wonder Mr. Chifley has failed
to face the coalminers on the fields or
to chide them face to face, for in doing
so he would be forced to jettison the
whole of the viewpoint which he admits
has constituted the foundation of his
political career.
He would be forced to repudiate every
principle which he and his immediate fol-
lowers, some of them like R. A. King
and J, A. Ferguson, Ms.L.C., themselves
former Communist officials, have held
about the right of unrestricted strike and
such details as the use of the military
for any purpose whatever during an in-
dustrial dispute, a matter which is firmly
fixed in “Labor” policy by resolution after
resolution. He would be compelled to
eat whole, bones and all, in the presence
of Communists and their dupes, his asser-
tion that Communism is only a political
philosophy and particularly his theory
that Communism is the product of want
and misery.
This last airy assumption he has already
thrown overboard in an advertisement
published at the cost of the harassed and
tireless taxpayers, in which he quotes the
Communist leaders of the coalminers
themselves as saying that, as far back
as 1947, the men were going on leave
with “longer holidays than ever before,”
“with holiday pay higher than ever be-
fore, after having been paid for statutory
holidays, sick leave, with work much
easier than ever before, in many cases be-
cause of the installation of power-borers,
and having received higher wages than
ever before,” after the industry had
passed through “a period of the greatest
gains in history,” estimated to represent
a figure of £4,500,000. These gains Mr.
Williams, now in Long Bay (as quoted
by Mr. Chifley), declared to have been
won with “ridiculous ease” and had
caused the miners to know “full employ-
ment.”
Everything which has happened in the
last few months has proved Mr. Chifley
to be one of the worst prophets who ever
drew £4OOO a year. It is difficult to see
how the country can trust him to lead
it out of its difficulties in the face of
the fact that strong leadership on his
part would involve admissions which
would shake the confidence of even his
most fanatic followers.
He can fight the miners, as one of his
more tolerant Press critics has written this
week, only “with a barrage of words”
and at a “safe distance.”
In the presence of those whom his
attitude has encouraged for years to in-
dustrial lawlessness and bushranging
against the community, he would find it
impossible to explain a show of firmness.
It would be like the keeper of a two-up
school turning up among the talent in a
sergeant’s uniform with a warrant in his
hand.
"Organised Scarcity."
When Mr. Dedman sat down at the
Commonwealth Finance Ministers’ con-
ference in London the other day he was
probably told in effect, but not quite so
bluntly, what the official apologist for
the Attlee Socialist Ministry said at the
outset of Britain’s “great social experi-
ment” ;
Socialist policies, it is true, are being
followed by Labor Governments in Aus-
tralia and New Zealand. But these are
countries of small populations. Their ex-
periments are on a laboratory scale. They
are valuable and interesting to watch, but
~. .they cannot have the world significance
that the British experiment has. The stakes
are not high enough. But in Britain they
are as high as they could conceivably be.
If the experiment succeeds the rewards will
be enormous in terms of human wellbeing
and national power. If it fails the con-
sequences may be measureless.
Till recently Mr. Chifley has been
speaking as though what he called the
“sound position” in the Australian
Socialist laboratory gave him a right to
patronise the Old Country. We could
use more dollars, he said, if it were not
for the need to consider Britain. Our
position was so much easier that some
nefarious people, dodging the benevolent
official planners of the “Golden Age,”
were getting dollars illegitimately by
simply pursuing the devious methods of
private trading—buying wool shipments
for resale. By the time Mr. Chifley’s
advisers had discovered the hole in their
restrictive trading regulations these
wrong-headed people had, to his indigna-
tion, got away with more than their share,
temporarily, of “organised scarcity and
equalised misery.” Mr. Chifley was quite
angry, but it did help to show how one
Socialist Government was trying to re-
strain its drawing on the dollar pool in
the interests of another.
The London conference should put an
end to any attitude of patronage in Can-
berra. The “cold war” from Moscow,
the dollar war, and a revolutionary mania
have now l combined to make the Socialist
Governments of Australia and New
Zealand realise that they are, for better
or worse, in the same leaky boat with the
British experimentalists. The London
conference decisions confirmed this truth.
It was agreed that the available biscuits
and water should be shared while they
last or till providential rescue arrives, and
tliat “Labor” throughout the Socialist
“Commonwealth and Empire” should, like
British “Labor,” tighten its belt a few
holes and “believe in Britain.” When
Sir Stafford Cripps says “Cut dollar im-
ports another 25 per cent.,” they will
henceforth all do it. Cripps will
speak for all of them at Washington
when, in September, he goes to face the
American dollar in its lair. Meanwhile
he is off to Switzerland for six weeks’
treatment for his health, With special
exemption from his own foreign-exchange
restrictions, the waiving of which, said
Prime Minister Attlee, “in viewsof the
need for quick recovery, is only right.”
The country is sick and would like to
go to Switzerland, too, no doubt. But it
can’t. The conference communique
marked its “success” in these words:
The aim must be the achievement of a
pattern of world trade in which dollar and
non-dollar countries could operate together
within one single multilateral system [that
is, buying and selling as and where you
wish, as our fathers did].
Ministers thought [how right they are!]
that conditions for such a single multiple
system did not exist at present. [The
Socialist “experiment” does not allow for
it, anyway.]
Agreed that Governments represented
would give consideration in collaboration
to measures designed to establish these
conditions, and that, in endeavoring to
solve the shorter-term problem [euphemism
for Socialist bankruptcy] care should be
taken to concentrate upon measures that
would fit into the permanent pattern of
world trade.
Agreed also that a lasting solution of the
sterling-area difficulties could not be found
without a very substantial expansion of the
sterling area’s earnings of dollars....
In plain language the peoples of the
Socialist core of what used to be the
free and industrious British Empire have
got to get down to hard work and earn
their living. At present they are con-
suming their remaining national savings,
each man is working no harder than he
thinks the other man is doing, and the
Governments are taking about 40 per
cent of the yearly earned national income
and spending it on nationalising estab-
lished industries in a gamble which puts
even British football-pools and Australian
Government lotteries in the shade.
The Americans, committed to supply-
ing Marshall Aid to their co-victors in
the late war against totalitarianism, are
becoming less and less amused. Like
Wellington praying for the night or
Bliicher, they are praying for 1952 (when
Marshall Aid ends) or the defeat of this
Socialist madness beforehand. In the years
since Franklin Roosevelt gained power in
1932 with his New Deal, they have seen
U.S. annual Budget expenditure rise from
5000 million dollars to 42,000- million,
with President Truman still calling for
another 4000 million from income-taxes.
They want to know whether they are sup-
posed to finance a still bigger New Deal
for all the earth. They are not exactly
to be blamed when they are told that
Marshall Aid seems to be simply playing
up to this British idea of something for
nothing; when the London “Economist”
says that Socialist Britain’s national in-
come “must fall” and that “a 40 per
cent, tax rate will lead to disaster” be-
cause “it will sap energy and will impede
development” ; and when the “Spectator”
adds that “if dollar aid were stopped we
should have to cut down expenditure
somewhere,” and points to the “some-
thing-for-nothing” social services on
which all these Socialist Governments
have elected to stand or fall.
The Cripps mumbo-jumbo about his
Budget expenditure on “the great social
experiment” having nothing to do with
Marshall Aid receipts has found some
support from the economists in the re-
ceiving part of the
world. But this stuff does not answer the
plain man’s analysis of the Cripps Budget,
to which the London conference has now
tied us Australians:
British national expenditure goes on
(a) materials to keep industries going, (b)
maintenance and expansion of industrial
equipment, (c) goods and services absolutely
necessary to keep the people at work, (d)
domestic Socialist services not strictly neces-
sary to keep the nation on the map. The
income from which this expenditure is met
consists of what the nation earns by its
own production, plus what is given or lent
to it by other (mainly North American)
countries. If this aid, given or lent, be
stopped, obviously expenditure would have
to be cut on one of the heads before-
mentioned.
And if that is not so, why is it necessary
for the London conference to cut dollar
imports by another 25 per cent? The
Americans, whom those cuts also hurt,
say that the result must be to reduce
Socialist Governments’ essentials under
one or all of heads (a), (b) and (c), and
that a refusal to cut under head (d), on
some plea that dollar-aid has nothing to
do with it, is plain crazy. If they are
so very wrong, then somebody ought to
get up and prove, if possible, to these
critics that the proper treatment for an
insolvent debtor is to give him as much
money as he wants to carry on his busi-
ness.
Twelve months have passed since that
trip of Mr. Chifley’s to London to get
more dollars, from which, having looked
on the “cold war” at close quarters in
Berlin, he brought back, not dollars, but
the exhortation to Australians to live
frugally and work harder. The seed fell
on stony ground which “Labor” was not
in the least interested in making fertile.
Like his opposite number in London, Mr.
Chifley has refused to reduce Govern-
ment expenditure and is intent only upon
extending his field of nationalised indus-
tries, the surest known way of increasing
it.
What Mr. Dedman now brings back
from London is less than nothing. We
can import only threequarters of what
we imported from the U.S.A. last
year to maintain our industries and
working equipment. What Professor
Copland calls Mr. Chifley’s “milk-
bar economy” is due to fold up at
the first chilly blast as surely as did the
British export trade on the evaporation of
a seller’s market. The 40-hour-week fraud
and all its attendant chicanery is now send-
ing the basic-wage up in swift quarterly
rises which are the sure harbingers of
a crash. A handful of Communists on
the coalfields have smashed the Socialists’
“full employment” ; a dole is the order
of the day again; and Mr. Chifley’s
“blueprints” for Government works to
“gear the country against a depression”
are useless for lack of coal and steel and
cement, and with the wages he would
have to pay on such employment his
social-security fund would melt like an
ice-cube in a boiler-house.
It did not really need the London con-
ference to bind us to the bullock-cart-
wheels of “organised scarcity and equal-
ised misery.”
A Knot for Cahill.
Newcastle (N.S.W.) City Council has
run into one of those conflicts between
conscience and law which could bring the
church militant up against it, lead to
heresy hunts and possibly a burning or
two at the stake —if coal can be got for
the burning. Incidentally, the trouble re-
veals how one-sided some of this indus-
trial legislation can be.
Two council employees, A. Davidson
and A. E. Doberer, found that their
religious convictions prohibited them
from being members of a union. Doberer
has never been a unionist and served the
council for 35 years; Davidson resigned
from his union a few months ago. Away
back in 1938 the council resolved that
all its employees must be union members,
but apparently respected Doberer’s feel-
ings until J, J. McKeon, of the Municipal
and Shire Employees’ and Electrical
Trades Unions, “made representations.”
Both men were suspended and an inquiry
held under the chairmanship of a Local-
Government Department officer. The in-
quiry was told:
Davidson: The council calls for Divine
guidance before each council meeting, yet
its 1938 resolution is likely to deprive
people who live by Divine guidance of their
livelihood.
Doberer: I cannot join an association
without violating my conscience Aider-
men won’t permit Sunday sport, they open
their meetings with a prayer. Yet they will
not recognise my conscience I’m pre-
pared to pay an amount equal to union
dues to the council or to charity.
McKeon: Federal and State legislation
lays down the principles that employers
can provide preference to unionists and
that they can be punished if they dismiss
an employee simply because he is a union
member.
Aside altogether from the question of
religious convictions, McKeon’s state-
ment reveals the aforesaid one-sidedness.
If the law provides punishment for an
employer who sacks a person simply be-
cause he is a unionist, it ought similarly
to provide punishment for sacking him
simply because he is not a unionist. It’s
a different matter in the case of a person
seeking a job; then an employer is fairly
entitled to insist on union membership if
he wishes.
Anyhow, a report is to be made to
Minister Cahill, who, if he is a man of
any discernment, will tread very warily
indeed. He wouldn’t want it said that
he favored penalising a man for his
religious beliefs, would he?


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Free-medicine Kite.
policy of the Government to assist the
people in meeting the costs of medical
care.” The “Medical Journal” in April
thus expressed the decision:
The medical profession is willing to co-
operate to give the people what is known
as free medicine if the Government wants
this to be done, but... .only in a way that
will not lead to the undoing of the medical
profession.
Cost? Anything you like! Costs have
exceeded initial Socialist estimates by two
or three times in New Zealand, and in
Socialist Britain are so high that the
Government has been compelled to con-
sider making the patient pay something
directly as well as in taxes. McKenna
said in early 1948 that “free” medicine
would cost £2 million a year, in Novem-
ber, 1948, he made it £6 million and for
“free” dentistry £4 million, and in April,
1949, he guessed again—£9 million for
“free” prescriptions and medical benefits.
On the basis of estimated costs for the
current (second) year in Britain—£3oo
million and rising—the “free” health bill
in Australia, pro rata, would be not £9
million, but nearer £5O million.
The president of the Australian Natives
Association in Victoria has declared the
whole Government scheme to be “kite-
flying for the elections.”
Blood and Acid.
For a day or so last week it looked as
if the coal strike was in danger of being
crowded-out of the news altogether as
the morning and evening papers fell over
each other in their efforts to make as
tasty a dish as possible of the cabled re-
ports of a murder trial on the
other side of the world. Murder
and disposal of bodies in acid-baths
was the core of the story from
England. Papers in every Australian capi-
tal devoted several columns to the case,
Sydney “Daily Telegraph” topping the
poll with almost two and a half pages
in one issue, including a running com-
mentary sent from the Lewes courthouse
by the “Senior Crown Prosecutor of
New South Wales.”
At least two papers managed to head-
line Haigh’s claim to have drunk his
victims’ blood; Brisbane “Courier-
Mail,” less direct, announced “Vampire
Murder Case.” In a sub-heading the
“Daily Telegraph” thoughtfully drew
attention to the “Unpleasant, Sordid,
Nauseating Features” of the case, doubt-
less so that readers who combined weak
stomachs with strong wills could turn to
the funnies'page instead.
Morbid interest in the case was not
peculiar to Australia. Last April the
London “Daily Mirror,” the scent of
blood, bodies and acid-baths in its nostrils,
was fined £lO,OOO and its editor sent to
jail for three months for beating the gun
and giving its readers what it presumably
thought they wanted months before the
trial. The paper’s proprietors were also
On Monday the Chifley Government’s re-
vised Pharmaceutical Benefits Act, the
first step in the compulsory nationalisa-
tion of the medical profession in the guise
of “free” medicine, formally came into
force. Its operation was at once halted
while its validity is challenged in the
High Court.
Like the Bank Grab Act, upon which
the Privy Council was to issue its decision
on the following day, this may make an-
other first-class constitutional issue for
that Imperial Court of Appeal which
“Labor” officially despises and rejects.
The Government agrees that the Act,
which threatens prosecutions against all
“non-complying” doctors, shall not be
enforced pending legal decision on the
validity of the legislation. To the lay
mind compulsion of the medical profes-
sion, as proposed, is in direct conflict
with the saving provision in the powers
sought and obtained in the 1946 referen-
dum on social services. The B.M.X.
took out a writ in the High Court directly
the “free”-medicine Act was proclaimed.
B.M.A. suspicions of the Government’s
aims, slowly formed during the protracted
negotiations with Health Minister Mc-
Kenna —who revealed considerable sym-
pathy with the doctors’ representations—
crystallised sharply when Mr. Chifley
took over and announced a “fight against
the doctors” and denied McKenna further
discretion ifi dealing with them. As soon
as McKenna, thus chastened, signified
repentance, his hopeless fifth place in the
Tasmanian “Labor” Senate elections list
was altered to the head of that list. His
change of front was also registered by his
public admission that the ultimate objec-
tive of the Government was the abolition
of private medical practice.
,°n that ground, and on the methods
of compulsion proposed, namely—
The vesting of regulation-making power
m the Director-General of Health;
The denying to the Advisory Committee,
whereon the profession would be rep-
resented, of any power to initiate policy,
and the provision that it should meet only
at the Director-General’s discretion;
The Government’s insistence upon finan-
cial control of the profession, through fixing
of fees and the payment of half cost of
services; and
The general interference both with a
doctor’s freedom of action in prescribing,
and with the confidential relations between
doctor and patient—
the B.M.A. determined early this year,
under legal advice, that it had no course
but to challenge the constitutional validity
of the new Act.
In announcing this decision last March,
the B.M.A. declared that the provisions
striking at the independence of the pro-
fession “bear no essential relation to the
principle of payment by the Government
for medical services to the people,” and
that it “wholeheartedly endorses the
striking unions’ funds and then sat back
to see what would happen. What hap-
pened was that the strikers dug their
toes in, their leaders began shilly-shally-
ing with the law over their funds, and
people all over the place lost their jobs,
factories ceased work, coalbuming
transport folded up and a general black-
out set in. In Sydney the Premier con-
tented himself with running off a lot of
restrictions, not on the strikers but on
their victims, and the story was repeated.
In Adelaide a different sort of man
happens to be Premier. When he rea-
lised that his State would get no more
N.S.W. coal he got busy. Nearly 400
miles from Adelaide is an opencut coal-
mine, Leigh Creek, about four times as
far away and containing poorer coal
than opencuts around Sydney. Leigh
Creek men went on double shifts and
extra trains began hauling the coal. In
Adelaide, after the first wave of stop-
pages, plants began working night
shift to ease the load on power output.
At first they started at 10 p.m., but to
cut down the domestic blackouts the
hour was put back to 11 p.m. Backing
up these measures, the Electricity Trust
chartered five ships to import 42,500 tons
of South African black coal, and the gas
company is to get a share of it. It will
cost about 325. 6d. a ton more than
N.S.W. coal.
Thus, with energy and thought, the
South Australian Government has
managed to overcome the crisis to some
extent and to reduce a fair bit of the
loss and misery inflicted on the State
by the Communist conspirators in N. S.
Wales. Both the Joint Coal Board and
the Queensland Government were so im-
pressed that they asked for details of
the “S.A. crisis technique.” The N.S.W.
Government probably regards it all as
another Liberal plot.
Mimicking U.N.O.
“Pagliacci” records it;
Like one of those peripatetic, fruitless, self-
important, “peace-making” commissions of
U.N.0., the A.C.T.U. executive, represented by
those Siamese twins-in-office Clarey and Monk,
have been flying forth and back between Mel-
bourne and Sydney for weeks, seeking a
“formula for settlement” of the Communist
“cold war” on the coalfields.
They have interviewed Socialist Ministers, the
Coal Board chairman, the Coal Tribunal, the
miners’ leaders, Communist staff-officers in the
field, the Combined Mining Unions Council
and each other. They must have spent a mighty
wad of somebody’s money in aeroplane fares
alone. Like U.N.O.’s president, their
exemplar, they have tried to be friends with
everybody, including the enemy. They have
put up so many proposals, or so many varia-
tions of the one proposal—“if the miners
go back they should get awarded all they struck
for”—that they have got the frozen mitt from
Canberra, the Coal Tribunal and the C.M.U.
Council in turn.
They began, of course, last year by receiving
Boss Williams (now doing 12 months’ light)
brought before the court and warned
that
if for the purpose of increasing the circula-
tion of their paper they should ever again
venture to publish matter such as this, the
directors themselves may find that the
arm of this court is long enough to reach
them and to deal with them.
Nor was interest in the trial confined
to the Press ; in the small town of Lewes
in Sussex an army of reporters had to
fight their way through crowds of “visi-
tors” who had come to the town to get
their drama firsthand at the couct be-
fore savoring it to the full in the written
word.
That the case petered out so
quickly (9£ hours altogether) must
have been a blow to those who run
sensational newspapers, send special
correspondents abroad and those who
more generally like their agonies and
their pleasures long-drawn-out. By the
third day almost all that was left was a
photograph of the condemned man on
his way to jail; by a trick of light he
looked like a ringleted Charles the
Second, or like a Hollywood film-star
playing a ringleted Charles the Second.
Strike Fallacies.
Two prime fallacies in particular stand
out in the output of words on what is
by all odds the wordiest strike on record.
One is the picture—imaginatively
painted by some leader-writers —of an
Australian nation united (passively) be-
hind the anti-strike leadership of Chifley
and Co. in their legalistic pretence of
action. The true picture is a hostile Aus-
tralia, growing every day more and more
hostile towards the same Chifley and Co.
for their craven vacillations.
The other strike fallacy is that the
miners’ going back to work uncondi-
tionally would mean a defeat for Com-
munism. The truth here is that the Com-
munist victory in this particular battle
has already been won. The strike has
had even more ruinous effects than the
Communists themselves could have hoped
for. Its ending will not alter that vic-
tory. The ruin has been effected. Every
day that Chifley and Co. cravenly vacil-
late merely adds some more wreckage.
To have done so much damage will
rightly be chalked up by Communists as
victory.
There will be other battles against
Communism, of course. But there will
be no victory for the people until the
secret ballot is made compulsory.
Playford Acts.
There seems to be a lot of brains and
courage in South Australia, some of
which ought to be imported into Can-
berra and Sydney—particularly Sydney.
In Canberra the Prime Minister looked
at the coal strike, decided to freeze the
{Continued at foot of next page.)
BUTTERFLY-HUNT.


:::
lilP-
%y\-y//yA-
CRAVENA
—for your
throat’s sake!
Obtainable in
10’s & 20’s
rti
€Ah
A
6745
CARRERAS LTD.—OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
in audience, and agreeing to throw the weight
of the A.C.T.U. behind the miners’ claims.
They didn’t get very far with that, partly
because their own show started splitting with
the internal “Labor” row in Melbourne Trades
Hall. They next appointed Communist McPhil-
lips (now doing a second jail stretch for
contempt) as leader of the A.C.T.U. panel for
the basic-wage hearing. The Arbitration Court
very properly took note of the behavior of
McPhillips, and also cast a stern optic over
the A.C.T.U., demanding assurances, as a sine
qua non for further hearing of the claim,
that the A.C.T.U. and all its member unions
would abide by arbitration in principle, and
accept whatever the court’s decision might be,
in this case in particular.
This was just after Mr. Monk had uttered
singularly impolitic comments on some straight-
speaking remarks by Mr. Justice Dunphy (on
the eve of taking up his appointment to me
Bench) concerning the obsolescence of ‘ the
right to strike,” especially against awards by
arbitration tribunals.
When the Communists opened their “cold
war” with the coal strike these A.C.T.U. twins
were inspired with a self-appointed mission to
make peace. However much they disliked the
strike, they disliked Chifley’s Emergency Act
even more. It wore too much the look of
Hollway’s, which had been a thorn in then-
flesh for 12 months.
Chifiey had said —and kept on saying—that
there could be only one end, a return to
arbitration under the Coal Tribunal. Monk
and Clarey worked on their idea that this could
mean “a conference of all parties” (which the
strike-leaders wanted), to produce a compromise
which would be registered by the Tribunal.
Chifiey said he wouldn’t join any such con-
ference.
Clarey and Monk suggested that, if the miners
would go back, the Tribunal could be asked
to give its prepared decision on long-service
leave. The Tribunal had earlier said the pre-
sumption was false; that the devastation
wrought by the strike would necessitate a
review of the whole question of long-service
leave.
They suggested that “within a week” of the
miners’ return to work, application could be
made by the jailed Communists for release.
The Mining Unions Council retorted that release
must be unconditional and part of the “settle-
ment.” The slight matter that the court will
want the contempt purged was ignored by both
parties.
The twin peacemakers then appeared to give
up. They published a longwinded statement
showing how their good offices, with the very
best intentions, were defeated at every turn, and
“it therefore appears that the door is closed
to any conference prior to a resumption of
work.” It took them four weeks to appreciate
that.
Next day the Press reported that Monk and
Clarey were on the wing to Sydney again to
talk to the Miners’ Council. They had flitted
back to Melbourne to give the local wharfies
the all-clear for unloading the Haligonian
Duke’s coal, to which the union retorted with
a noise as rude as any that had greeted the
pair in Sydney.
It all shows how catching this Evatt-U.N.O.
bug is.
POLITICAL POINTS
The decision to put the Army in to
work the opencuts, arrived at, after more
conferences than were necessary for the
invasion of Europe, on the 25th day of
the strike and not to be put into effect,
if ever, until the dispute reaches its 36th
day, is merely a case of weakness mas-
querading as strength. To bring the Army
into an industrial dispute is a departure
from “Labor” principles, but in the eyes
of the Chifleys and McGirrs not nearly
so heinous an offence as giving the job
to civilian workers outside the Miners’
Federation. The present situation,
disastrous as it is, afforded the Govern-
ment a golden opportunity of breaking
for good the Communist grip on Aus-
tralian industry. There seems no doubt
that the A.W.U. would, if asked, be per-
fectly willing to take over opencut min-
ing in N. S. Wales, as in Victoria and
South Australia. Once that occurred
there would be no chance of the Reds
using their dupes in the other mining
unions to blackmail the Government and
the community. But Baddeley, N. S.
Wales Minister for Mines, is an ex-
president of the Miners’ Federation, and
the Prime Minister’s electorate includes
the western coalfields—and this is election
year.
The argument that to work the open-
cuts with other than Miners’ Federation
men would split the “Labor” movement
is all bunk, even apart from the fact that
the Commos have split it already. The
miners would suffer no hardship from
the move; on their own showing they
have not sufficient numbers to work the
deep mines. The only sufferers would be
the miners’ officials, which means the
Communists and near-Communists, who
would lose some of the power they have
so grossly misused. The bulk of Aus-
tralian trade-unionists would be the
gainers.
Calwell spoke at Cessnock on Saturday
and expressed the opinion that had a
Liberal Government been in power at the
present time the coal strike would have
led to civil war. This reckless remark
echoes a similar one made by Aneurin
Bevan at Blackpool when he said that if
a Conservative Government were re-
turned it would mean:
All the roads are closed except the roads
to tyranny and oppression. All the roads
are closed except to civil war. All the
roads are closed except to the bloodbath
that is the history of mankind.
Despite a challenge from Churchill
neither Attlee nor Morrison disavowed
Bevan’s extravagant outburst. There has
been close liaison lately between British
and Australian “Labor.” Could it be that
both parties intend to raise a civil-war
bogey as an election issue?
Ridiculous as it sounds, the Informa-
tion Minister’s comment should be
examined. Almost every positive move
the Government has tardily made was
first suggested by the Opposition, and
the Government has had the knowledge
that it could count on the Opposition’s
support. If the positions had been re-
versed could a Liberal-Country party
Government have counted on similar sup-
port from “Labor”? If so, no situation
remotely approaching civil war is conceiv-
able. Does Mr Calwell mean. that his
party would have opposed a Liberal Gov-
ernment’s attempt to uphold arbitration
and the rule of law? A responsible
Minister who talks loosely of civil war
should be prepared to answer such ques-
tions.
Prevented from personal attendance by
London’s Communist dock strike, Home
Secretary Ede sent a message to the In-
ternational Assembly for Religious
Freedom denouncing “victorious aggres-
sive Communism” for having “fostered a
yoke.of intellectual and moral slavery on
vast numbers of people” cursed with
“Czechoslovak and similar regimes,”
themselves in thrall to Russia. Eleven
years ago our daily Press demanded aid
for these Czecho ruffians, and, because
The Bulletin refused to swallow the
bilge fools and liars were brewing,
young Left-wing prigs branded it as
“Fascist.” It had particularly annoyed
them by quoting lan Hamilton: “When
Masaryk goes Benes won’t last long, nor
Czechoslovakia either” —a marvellous
prediction which has come true twice.
On July 21, the United States Senate
by 82 votes to 13 ratified the Atlantic Pact
without amendment. The ratification
called for a two-thirds majority, so there
was ample margin. The only real oppo-
sition or criticism came from Republicans
anxious to avoid the chance of atom
secrets being given away to European
countries.
Premier Hanlon rushed up to North
Queensland when he heard of the forma-
tion of a strong development league. He
told them all about the great Burdekin
dam and what his' Brisbane Government
was going to do for them, then returned
to Brisbane and said “All the stories
about neglect of the north faded away
when I got there. The feeling towards the
Government is excellent.” The difference
between Nelson and Hanlon is that
Nelson knew the eye to which he put the
telescope was blind.
Probably the wildest meeting of all
those held about the coal strike was in
Sydney Town Hall last week when Mrs.
Jessie Street and a bunch of Communist
“girls” tried to break up a protest meet-
ing staged by the Women’s Movement
Against Socialism. It was woman to
woman and no holds barred, and, as one
reporter said, “only two policemen were
at the meeting; they did not interfere.”
Who could blame them?
Fed-up with waiting for Governments
to solve their coal problems a batch of
Mackay (Q.) sugar-millers set out last
week to prospect their own. Floods ex-
posed a thick seam of coal near Lake
Elphinstone, south-west of Mackay, and
the party, led by Mr. Evans, C.P. member
for Mirani in the Queensland Assembly,
hopes to get a mining lease and start an
opencut there, employing private con-
tractors to win the coal. Howls are ex-
pected from the Miners’ Federation, but
the sugarmen think they can put up with
that.
Describing the coal strike as “callous
war on the community,” the Prime
Minister said that as far as his Govern-
ment was concerned it would be “boots
and all.” Dancing-pumps or carpet-
slippers?
Apparently the switch in wharf-control
from the Stevedoring Industry Com-
mission to the Stevedoring Industry Board
makes no difference to Canberra’s policy
of tolerating the Communist ban on
Dutch shipping, which has killed Aus-
tralian trade with Indonesia. Before the
war this country sold flour, milk, cream,
butter and canned fruits to Java;
that business has all been lost to
other countries. On the import side tea
used to be a big item, almost two-thirds
of our supplies coming from that part of
the world. In 1941-42 Australia imported
28,000,0001 b. of tea from Indonesia as
against 16,000,0001 b. from India and
Ceylon ; in 1945-46, thanks to the Com-
munist decree, no tea at all came from
Indonesia, while imports from India and
Ceylon rose to 51,000,0001 b. The demand
for tea from India and Ceylon is greater
than those two countries can supply, so
their dealers buy large quantities in Singa-
pore and elsewhere. Much of the
Javanese output is now sold in Singapore,
so it seems likely that portion of the
subsidy which the Federal Government
pays —out of taxpayers’ money—goes to
middlemen for tea which the Communists
will not allow to be imported direct from
Indonesia. It might make sense to
Moscow —or even to the Chifley Gov-
ernment—but to anyone else it is just
plain idiocy.
A Sydney daily reported the Prime
Minister as saying, on reaching Sydney
after a chilly flight from Canberra: “The
Scott expedition returns.” Doubtless the
remark was supposed to be humorous,
but Mr. Chifley should know that the
Scott expedition never returned, and its
gallant and touching story makes it a
subject about which discerning' people
don’t make jokes.
It looks as though meetings of the Com-
munist party will have to be held in an
old stone building out at Long Bay, near
Sydney, so it’s scarcely necessary for
them to worry over talk of their Marx
House being taken over by the Govern-
ment. There’s no rent at the Long Bay
establishment and meals are free —that
should appeal to any Communist,
Menzies was to tour Queensland early
this month, but a prolonged Parlia-
mentary sitting prevented it, so he’s to
begin a 10-day tour at Toowoomba next
Monday. There he will share the plat-
form with Fadden —a good augury for
the election campaign.
Like the Australian Primary Producers’
Union, the National Council of Wool-
selling Brokers has turned its face against
any Government-run wool price-fixing
plan to succeed the present system
when Joint Organisation completes its
task. The Council doubts whetheb any
success would be “worth the cost and
interference of Government control.”
Another Communist conspiracy misfire.
By holding up industry at Whyalla (S.A.)
the “hill-climb” strike which fizzled out
just before the coal strike began was
partly responsible for the building-up of
a small stock of coal at the ironstone
port. This has been a godsend to South
Australia. The B.H.P. passed 600 tons of
it to the Commonwealth railways to assist
in the haulage of Leigh Creek coal; 400
tons went to Port Lincoln, enabling the
Eyre Peninsula railways and the local
freezing-works to keep going, and 800
tons have been passed on to the Gas
Company in Adelaide, ensuring the city
a limited supply of gas until the first ship-
ment of South African coal arrives.
Queensland Premier Hanlon was
caustic in his comment on the action of
A.B.C. in turning down his request for
broadcasting time for a statement on the
strike. He said he had been asked by
telegram to withdraw his request; he had
refused to do so. He said of the A.8.C.:
Apparently they could not participate in
any action of the Government which would
offend the Communist party. They were
more concerned with keeping sweet with
the Communist party than with allowing
the people to know the truth of the situa-
tion.
A.B.C.’s chairman replied that it was
vital that the Commission should not be-
come merely the voice of the Govern-
ment “or to take sides in any issue which
divides the people of Australia.” It is
reassuring to hear that A.B.C. does not
intend to become the voice of the Gov-
ernment, but the piece about taking sides
is highfalutin poppycock. The present
“issue” is one on which all Australian
Governments and every genuine Aus-
tralian political party are in complete
agreement; the only dissenting voices are
those of a small bunch of Moscow-minded
traitors and their misguided dupes.
An inveterate anagramist of 50 years’
addiction to the craft, who claims that
his previous best effort was a reference
to Boer War General Redvers Buffer as
Reversd Buffer, has hit a new high. In a
letter to The Bulletin he points out that
Chifley, without much twisting, becomes
Hec, I fly.
A shameful story of how members of
the Ship Joiners’ Society were hounded
out of job after job by Communist bosses
of the Building Workers’ Industrial Union
was told to the Victorian Royal Commis-
sion on Communism last week. Violence
and intimidation were the weapons used
against men whose only crime was that
they are decent Australians and want no-
thing of an alien cult of tyranny and
murder. It’s a strange commentary on
the national character that the bullies
were allowed to get away with it.
Lord Bruce wafted a breath of com-
monsense over the agitated financial scene
in Britain by saying that the best way to
encourage industry and incentive was to
relieve it of some of its tax burdens. But
remedies like that, however sensible and
practical they be to simple people, are
scorned by Socialist wizards.
Announcement that the Privy Council
decision in the Banks case would be given
yesterday scotched a rumor that the Gov-
ernment was contemplating a snap elec-
tion before October in order to avoid
making banking an election issue. There
is still the yarn that Chifiey may advance
polling-day if the strike peters out soon.
There may be something in it. An early
election on a law-and-order platform
could appeal to “Labor” “leaders” on the
grounds that it might win votes from
those who think the Government “settled”
the dispute before they wake up to the
truth that its incompetence and weakness
actually caused the trouble.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“B. A. Ker”; This is an admission of
incompetence, of course, but the hardest
task X ever undertook was the writing of
a report of a young acquaintance’s wed-
ding—the couple wishing to notify the
district per the local rag. To write the
thing took barely 20 minutes; but when
I read it through! Over the years my
mind must have stored up all the cliches
reserved for these occasions—and I’d used
them all: “A very pretty wedding was
solemnised.” “The bride, who looked
charming, entered the church on the arm
of her father,” etc. I tore the horror up
and bogged in to write something a little
less shopworn. “The picturesque old
church at Ourtown was the scene of a
very pretty ” That went into the
w.p.b. After three more false starts I
got a decent opening sentence; then the
thing developed into an open brawl with
my subconscious: “The bride’s mother
chose” .. . Out! “The customary
toasts were honored.” Away! “The
presents were both numerous and costly.”
Grr! After a long battle the thing was
finished. I wasn’t pleased with it, but
at least it didn’t read like a prefab. When
I delivered it I somehow got the impres-
sion that the “happy couple” were dis-
appointed with the effort. However, the
bride thanked me, but said she would
“add a bit about the dresses.” A fort-
night later the report appeared in the
weekly rag. It began with “A very pretty
wedding was solemnised” and ended:
“The happy couple were the recipients of
many beautiful and costly presents.” Only
two sentences I recognised as mine. The
bride apologised for the alterations; she
“Didn’t know that you hadn’t written an
account of a wedding before.”
* * * *
“X.S.”; A police raid on gamblers in
Melbourne had a surprising sequel—it
led to an outburst of indignation from
the general public and cheques and offers
by the dozen from sympathisers anxious
to pay the fines. The gamblers in ques-
tion were two old invalid pensioners, one
with a wooden leg, and the place raided
was the Mount Royal Old Men’s Home,
where veterans of wars, of industry and
life in general eke out the remaining
years of their existence sitting on benches
in the sun in pleasant surroundings. They
were each fined £2O apiece, or four weeks’
imprisonment, for having taken bets of
threepence and sixpence, about the only
form of amusement left to most of the
inmates. One indignant person sent a
cheque for £4O with a suggestion that he
could name plenty of old men’s homes —
beg pardon, clubs—in Collins-street,
where the police could find bigger game.
* sK * *
“P. Subub”: Don’t be too critical of
the milk-oh (B. 29/6/’49), for he is the
last remaining industrial worker to
be unaffected by go-slow. With a
definite round to do he knows that the
sooner he gets finished the sooner he
knocks off. Therefore he goes about his
task dressed in shorts and running-shoes ;
does his delivery at a gallop. Thus he
takes low fences and gates in his stride ;
dashes down pitch-black passages in
which he constantly encounters his pet
phobias—the kid’s tricycle, left on cement
path just where he abandoned it the
night before when summoned to tea; the
lawnmower, abandoned in the middle of
the lawn ; the rake where the missus left
it when she rushed in to see if the pota-
toes were burning. Then there is the
savage dog, usually on the chain, but
occasionally loose and filled with the
ambition to take a piece out of milk-oh’s
lens. I did a spot of clerking once in a
big dairy-depot, and the amount of skin
our milk-ohs lost nightly would have im-
pelled any other set of workers to have
yelled to the sky for penalty-rates.
* * * *
“Jasby”: About that three-penn’orth of
scallops (B. 13/7/’49). Her curiosity
aroused, Mrs. Jasby visited the fish-shop
patronised by middling-sized son and
found that “Me and Mine” was correct
in saying that the scallops in question are
not shellfish but chunks of potato fried
in batter. She brought home a bob’s
worth, and we all enjoyed them just as
much as middling-sized son. Still, that
doesn’t exonerate her from the charge
of double-dealing. The scallops she de-
voured with such relish a few hours after,
as she thought, forbidding them to
junior were definitely the Tasmanian
variety.
* * * «
“Bo”: With sales taking a steep nose-
dive as the crippling effects of the coal
strike becojme more sharply felt, Sydney’s
big ragshops have been forced to fall
back on what used to be called “sales.”
For some strange reason, however, that
term to describe the current slashed-price
inducements is being avoided. Variously
they are described as “shopping specials,”
“below-cost clearances,” “stocktaking
finds,” “release of specials,” “Golden
Opportunities,” “Selling Month,” etc. In
effect they are bargain sales. The bar-
“ Bother! It Was the last one We had in the kitchen, madam!"
gain sale was the invention of a genius.
How often have the directors of some
store, gloomily wondering how much in
the £ creditors will get, been put on the
high road to record dividends simply by
advertising a “monster” sale? In
pre-war days the half-yearly sales were
eagerly-awaited events, and the honest
stores had genuine bargains a-plenty. And
if you were a shareholder or ran an
account you could enjoy the benefits of
the sale without getting into the scrum.
Likewise, the sale was a grand opportunity
for women, especially of picking up for
a song clothing lines that swiftly-chang-
ing fashions had “dated” —and clever
fingers could do the rest. Well, tough
times are here, and tougher times are
coming. The grand binge is over, and I
predict the return in the near future of
that boon and bane of the shopper the
“Colossal Sale!”
* * * *
“Kelms”: In a world that is daily be-
coming more polysyllabic it isn’t strange
that Binghi should be passing almost into
oblivion. Roused by some excitement a
party of abos can give an impression of
extreme volubility, but normally they are
probably the most reticent people in the
world. See a buck come to a camp and
ask a question of a gin. Often the ques-
tion may be no more than a grunt, yet it
is understood clearly, and Mary’s equally
brief reply will inform him that Jacky
has gone walkabout, accompanied by two
dogs, in search of a wallaby that had left
tracks the night before, and that if he
isn’t held up at the crossing he’ll be back
for tea. Yet long after the race is ex-
tinct, or absorbed into another, it will be
remembered by a word —boomerang.
There isn’t a word in any other language
that can express the same meaning. Binghi,
of course, didn’t use the word as a verb,
as we do, but to describe a weapon
unique to his race. Strange that one of
the world’s most illiterate and least-war-
like races should be immortalised by a
word and a weapon.
* * * *
“Melbn”: Touching the terrifying
aroma—spiritual, I mean—which sur-
rounds the Australian gipsy: A group of
Melbourne artists set out in a hooded
truck for Phillip Island for a Christmas
painting holiday and with high hopes of
renewing acquaintance with the local
Bung, a friendly person, at a half-way
township. Not only were all the shops
closed but the pub also. Another group
which followed a half-hour later found
everything wide open and the pub at full-
blast. Explanation: the bush telegraph
had sent word that a caravan full of
bearded gipsies with their swarthy wives
and children was approaching and the
townsfolk, fearful of their ability to
withstand the subtle persuasion of the
Romanies, decided to put up the shutters.
* * * *
“Helldud”; Saw a worm turn the
other day. As the bus rumbled its way
along the street two heavily-burdened
women almost simultaneously jerked the
“stop”-cord. Snarled the ticket-puller,
“What did the two of you wanta yank
the cord for?” As the bus stopped one
of the matrons, a lady of commanding
presence, fronted the conductor and de-
livered herself thus: “How dare you
address me in such a fashion? Accord-
ing to you, as the bus approached my
street I should have arisen from my seat
and asked the rest of the passengers if
any desired to alight. Then, if no one
desired to do so, then and only then,
would I be justified in pulling the cord.
Is that so? Anyhow, in what way did
I offend? I was quite as desirous of
leaving your unpleasant conveyance as was
this other lady.” She left the bus. The
vehicle had gone several blocks before
the red-faced conductor mustered suffi-
cient strength to collect another fare.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”; “Ray Whiting” (B.
6/7/’49) sighed for his Syrian laundress.
The coal strike, hitting, among other in-
dustries, the flourmills, set me thinking
of the mills I saw in Syria. Possibly the
cities there were equipped with the new-
fangled contrivances that stop dead each
time a coalminer gets out of the wrong
side of his bed ; but around the small
towns, like Baalbek, the streams that
coursed merrily down from the mountains
were dotted with little water-mills. They
were small—just a narrow race directing
the water beneath a small shed which pro-
vided cover for the wheels and a few
bags of wheat. The wheels, carved out of
stone, were up to seven feet across and
eight inches thick; and the capacity of
an average mill was about three bags
a day. Puny? Of course. Antiquated?
Very, But that trickling brook runs
merrily whether coal is mined or stays
in Mother Earth.
* * * *
“Ceg”: Tattered singlets (B. 6/7/’49)?
Thirty years ago at a boarding-house in
South Yarra patronised by myself and
other hard-up youngsters in the banking
and insurance business, we were some-
times rather ashamed of the dilapidated
garments which went into the laundry-
bag. A humorist among us owned a
singlet which was beyond repair. Every
other week, for a joke, it was sent to
the steam-laundry, and we used to bet on
whether it would come back; it always i
did. Then, to see just how far the laundry
would go in the matter, it was further
torn and ripped; back it came, washed
and ironed. The humorist put it on and
went to the bathroom to shave. As he
stood there shaving with the singlet hang-
ing in festoons on him his room-mate
stole up behind him with a lighted spill
of paper, which he applied to the shreddec
tail. The result was dramatic ; the single
flared up and the shaver jumped prett
well into the bath, badly cutting his fac
with the razor. Next laundry-day th
charred and tattered remains were one
more put into the laundry-bag. The
came back, and after that we gave up
The owner of the relic is now a prosper
ous businessman in Melbourne. I wonde
if he still has the trophy.
* * * *
“Narsty Norm”: If that publican per
sists in the custom of refunding the six
penny deposit on the bottom of an up
turned glass (B. 13/7/ ’49) he is likely t
have his bar wrecked beyond repair. A
over the world the signal of the upturnec
glass is known as a declaration that th
“turner-upper” is the best man in the bar
with an eager willingness to prove i
against all comers. I have seen the chal-
lenge made and accepted from London
to Callao, Hong Kong to New York, Kal-
goorlie to Bourke, and it always resulted
in a wrecked bar. It may mean a little
extra trouble to ask the barmaid for th
sixpence, but if I visit that bar that’
how I’ll try to get my deposit back. No
upturned glass for me!
* * * *
“Me Mi Ca”; At the opera last week
during a performance of “The Barber o'
Seville” the travelling monk of the piece
was garbed in shabby robes covered in
dust and grime, but his beautifully-mani
cured hands showed no trace of grime
and on one of his fingers flashed a fine-
looking ring. It reminded me of my
father’s favorite story of the London
stage. It was his first visit to the theatre
and the show was one of the popular
melodramas of the ’eighties. The heroine
and her babe had been cast into the
storm. In despairing tones she appealec
to a heartless world, “What is to happen
to us? My poor baby. No home, nothing
to eat. What shall I do?” A Cockney
voice from the gods told her—“ Pawn
that ruddy ring on yer finger, lydy.”
* * * *
“Exdig”: As I freeze in my un-radiated
room my thought flies back to a cobber
with whom I and others shared a dugout
in France. We did have a Tommy cooker
or so there to dissipate a little of the
coldness; but a real frost had set in, and
we surrounded ourselves with all the
blankets we had. Conditions were too
shivery even for conversation; but Joe’s
voice broke the icy silence. “Hey, Bill,”
he said. “Remember them hot days in
Egypt when a man felt as if he was fried
if he stood a minute in the sun?” Bill
grunted that he did. “Remember,” pur-
sued Joe, “how the hot sand seemed to
burn through the soles of your boots and
blister your feet? Remember how even
wearing a shirt made you feel red-hot?”
“Yes, I remember,” said Bill. “Well,
for Gawd’s sake,” said Joe, “let’s talk
about it so that a man can get a bit
warm! ”
* * * *
“Islander”; Perhaps Mr. Chifley could
try this out. Miners at the Crigglesworth
Colliery, Wakefield, Yorkshire, decided it
was time their machinery had a new look.
So they got to work and painted out the
dull black and Admiralty-grey and re-
placed it with cream and green picked out
in red oxide. Furthermore, they did it in
their spare time, over a period of six
months, and there hasn’t been a strike
since. Every time the coal does a bit
of dirty work on the paint there’s a
miner handy with a paint-brush. Only
trouble with our mines is that the
Commos have got in early with the Red
paint.
* * * *
“Derwent”: Falkinder, M.H.R., has
been urging Canberra to consider estab-
lishing a whaling-base at Hobart, as being
much more suitable than in Western Aus-
tralia, because of the greater chances of
exploiting the resources of the Antarctic
regions. There is a good deal to be said
for re-establishing the industry, which in
the early days of last century lent color,
romance and thrill to Tasmanian life, and
brought in a considerable amount of
wealth. There will not be the same con-
ditions, of course; the demand for
“humaner whaling” has brought about
new methods, and in New Zealand
Perano Brothers, of Tory Channel, are
trying out an electric harpoon in place of
the explosive weapon which causes so
much destruction of the whalemeat. The
new harpoon, instead of containing an
explosive head, is connected with a wire
from the engine of the chaser, an electric
current either paralysing the whale or
killing it outright. All the meat pro-
duced from the catches of the Cook
Strait operators is canned and sent to
England.
ODE TO NYLON.
“New French nylon swimsuits fit like skin, shine
at night, and vanish when photographed.”
Nyloo, nylon, burning bright
On bathing beauties of the night,
Following them through thick and thin
Like a second, moonburnt skin;
Glow-worms oust the turtledove,
Lighter forms of light-of-love.
Nylon, nylon, sleek and sly!
When the camera's evil eye
Opens on your wearer-Eve,
Then you basely take your leave!
What remains? Can she forgive?
The answer’s in the negative.
Nylon, nylon, see her rage:
Fluttering to the Social Page,
“I’m in,” she cries. “But 100k —the brute
Left out my nylon bathing-suit!”
Then, slowly, admiration grows—
She murmurs, “Still, I like the pose”...
Nylon, you’re a thin excuse
For giving modern women’s views;
That modesty could yield to vanity,
Some men say, is mere insanity;
But others pray for camera-sight,
Nylon, excellently bright!
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Zake”: As he pulled in alongside a
pump at the suburban garage the thin,
lanky cove at the wheel of his ancient,
very-high-clearance car looked from the
ground as if he were perched half-way
up a ladder. The liver-massager took in
a couple of gallons on the cautious esti-
mate of its owner ; after much poring
inside the works he then figured that half
a pint of oil might be ingested without
excessive danger to mpving parts. As
might have been expected, out from his
pocket came that symbol of masculine
financial cautiousness a purse. After he
had with even more caution passed over
the necessary he climbed back into the
high seat and was vibrating like a blanc-
mange in a wind-tunnel when a thought
struck him and he snapped off the
ignition, he and the engine coming to a
halt simultaneously. “I’d better have
some air in the tyres,” he said. The
garageman looked down at them and then
craned up at his customer, a humorous
glint in his eye. “Be risky putting any
more in,” he said. “If y’ get any higher
off the ground you’ll get vertigo if y’
look over the side.”
* * * *
“Clooter”: Another of those well-
meaning professors—this time from New
York —has bobbed up to tell us that we
need a “more democratic form of school
education.” I’m not sure what that
means, but the prof, holds that it would
give children “a sense of unity with their
fellows, develop their potentialities as
individuals and make them a contribut-
ing part of society.” It is also necessary
that the child should have “a feeling of
independence and group solidarity,”
though how one can be independent and
yet be “solid” for a group is a trifle
beyond me. However, I intend to give
the prof.’s theory a go. The next time
C. jnr. expresses his independence by
putting a foot through the wardrobe
mirror or develops the “anti-social”
desire to acquire somebody else’s marbles
I’ll read him the prof.’s words. The next
time the teacher complains that Junior
isn’t doing his homework I’ll refer him to
the prof., and the prof, will be called to
support his “group-solidarity” idea when
Junior i§ accused of being a ringleader
in fourth-class’s massed attack on third-
class’s playground. As for “contributing
to society,” I’m henceforth withholding
12| per cent, of Junior’s pocket-money
as a contribution to my social-services
tax,
* * * *
“Territorian”: Here in Darwin the first
repercussions from the coal strike were
urgent wires from southern business
firms to the storekeepers, begging them
to send down all the hurricane-lamps,
primus-stoves, pressure-lamps, metho.-
stoves and kerosene-lamps they had in
stock. Some firms requested that the
goods be sent by air-freight. “They’ll be
going back to the old slush-lamp before
they’re finished,” grinned one store-
keeper as he raked over his accumulation
of old stocks to satisfy appeals from the
south. “Reckon we are better off here
than they are in the southern States,” said
his hearer. “If it does come to the pinch
we can go out and catch goannas and
bandicoots for a living; but them folks
herded up in towns can’t even do that; all
they can do is to starve slowly. There
ain’t a Territorian as ’ud ever need to
go short of tucker, strikes or no strikes.”
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: When it became obvious
that the factory would have to close
down during the coal strike, the men’s
representatives called on the boss.
“What are we going to do?” they asked.
“Look,” said the boss. “For seven years
I’ve run this place, been responsible for
everything, paid you well, met heavy
taxes, scrambled round in search of
materials and so forth. Now we’ve got
to close till the power comes on again.
I’m off up to Queensland for a month.
I’ve wanted a holiday for two years. It’s
your Government, it’s your union mates
who’ve struck, it’s your problem, not
mine.” The delegation thought hard;
then one said, “But couldn’t we buy a
diesel or something to run the plant?”
“Too right you could,” answered the
boss. “Buy one and put it in and we’ll
keep going.” “Who, us?” “Yes, you!
"But it gives her a chance to get away from the kitchen for a break."
It’s you that wants the work, not me.
I want a month’s holiday.” The delega-
tion looked wanly at one another and
shuffled out.
* * * *
“V. Cl use”: The missus was battling
to cook the breakfast on the primus
when I read out to her the news that a
scientist (yes, Russian) had found an
elixir in the form of a serum that would
increase the average life-span to more
than 100 years. “He ought to be shot,”
said the missus. “Fancy anyone wanting
to face this sort of thing for a hundred
years!”
* * * *
“Twin Sylvie”: “Spike’s” toastmaster
(B. 6/7/’49) reminds me of the wedding
breakfast where the chairman, who’d got
things muddled, called one of the grooms-
men up. Flabbergasted, he groped for
suitable words to eulogise the bridesmaids
and could think of nothing better than
“And this young lady I have always found
to be an honorable character. And
though I’ve met the other young Ikdy
only this morning, I’ve found her out to
be an honorable character, too.”
* * * *
“Pte. Tuscany”; Just across the
Bridge, where Walker-street comes down
to the Tiber —beg its pardon, the Harbor
—a dingdong little war is being waged
from night to night. Whatever provoca-
tion may have preceded it, the first shot
was a brick through a window of the
Communists’ establishment there. The
aim was extra good—it got the left
window. The other window was treated
to a bucket of tar. The Corns’ counter
was at first mild, even polite. They
merely washed off the tar and patched
the hole with brown paper. The next
brick, some nights later, went clean
“ Couldn't you leave all that till We get home , petsy?”
through the other window. This was too
much. The garrison added vinegar to
the brown paper: “Hitler started by
breaking windows.” The latest shot, at
time of reporting, is in chalk ; large neat
letters right across the pavement to the
garrisons’ doorstep: “Hitler Also Fought
Communists, the Saint,” That ought to
get a bite.
“P.0.M.C.”: “Exdig’s” hound which lit
out for the horizon to be seen no more
after being skyrocketed by a shell-burst
(B. 6/7/’49) was motivated by the same
impulse which moves most badly-shaken
dogs—shock. I’ve witnessed several road
accidents involving canines, and those
escaping serious injury all behaved
similarly. Picking himself up, a shocked
dog is apt to spin like a top before sitting
down to count the stars or whatever it
is his dazed vision sees. Next comes a
sniffing around some handy tree or post
to retrieve dignity, or perhaps to create
the impression that nothing untoward
has happened. Then, suddenly feeling
the full impetus, he lets out a harrowing
yelp and gallops into the distance. How
far he’ll go is problematic, but the odds
are he won’t come back —this peculi-
arity being authoritatively attributed to
what in man would be total loss of
memory.
* * * *
“Blue P.”: Adelaide “Advertiser”
gets this week’s prize for the obvious.
Reporting that a motor-lorry taking
6000 racing pigeons to Parachilna,
where they were to be released for a race
to Adelaide, had capsized and that nearly
all the birds had escaped from the
wrecked baskets, the paper noted that
“The S.A. Homing Club has postponed
the races.”
* * * »
“W.P.T.”: A sundial at Marrickville
(Sydney) is generally referred to as the
rabbit monument because it was erected
to the memory of Thomas Holt, first
Colonial Treasurer, who is blamed for
introducing the rabbits to N.S.W., though
his were by no means the first rabbits
to be brought to the country. Holt did
liberate rabbits on his property, appro-
priately named “The Warren,” and they
increased beyond all expectations, but
perhaps it would be better to refer to the
sundial as the Oyster Monument, since
Holt was responsible more than anyone
else for the cultivation of oysters in Aus-
tralia.
* * sp *
“P.P.”: A septuagenarian defendant
who gained some respect from the court
(and discharged with an admonition) by
his claim that he was a “King’s Sergeant”
reminds me of a nuisance of War I which
the camp authorities of Hitler’s war did
not suffer. At the end of the Boer War
a contingent of Australians went to Eng-
land for the coronation of Edward VII,
and a small troop of “King’s Corporals”
with a few sergeants came out of his
Majesty’s special interest. King’s Regs,
give no justification for the privileges they
claimed when the Kaiser’s, War started,
mainly that when they enlisted they were
immediately entitled to their former rank,
and that, however they behaved, nobody
but the King himself could discharge
them. No doubt some of them, who were
less noticeable, were good soldiers, but in
three camps I met “King’s Corporals”
who were the camps’ pests. Even the
C.Os. seemed afraid to challenge their
asserted right to booze all day and other-
wise do as they liked.
* * * *
“Ericsen”: The “orphan quotation”—
“I shall not pass this way again,” etc.—(B.
13/7/ ’49) is carved on the Tftus Arch
in Rome. Sunken with age, while all old
Rome has fallen beside it, the arch is of
marble, stained and discolored with age,
and is surmounted by a group in bronze
of Triumph in his chariot surrounded by
his attendant angels. In the djstant land-
scape are the hills and road of the Appian
Way. The spandrels are figures in relief
representing Virtue and Fame, supporting
the keystone. The arch has been the
subject of a painting by Alexander
Jamieson, which is in the collection of
James Ferguson, London. In the paint-
ing, coming from under the arch on a
powerful horse, is a man of middle-age,
strong in health and power. Hat in hand,
he is depicted declaiming the noble senti-
ment. The date under the quotation is
A.D. 1420.
* * * He
“FitzOch”: What’s the matter with
my friend “Mac Hoots”? After announc-
ing (B. 6/7/’49) that the carved St.
Bernard dog that is to be seen in the
window of a Bridge-street, Sydney, auc-
tioneer was made of wood ‘he takes
another gander at the animal and de-
clares (B. 13/7/’49) it made of plaster.
Did the St. Bernard, a breed renowned
for its intelligence, pull the leg of “Mac-
Hoots” or was “Mac Hoots” on his
second visit well primed with the liquor
allegedly carried by St. Bernards for
the revival of perishing travellers? The
dog in the Bridge-street window was
carved out of a solid block of wood in
Switzerland ; his weight is approximately
the same as an average-sized live St.
Bernard.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: The way of the
experimenter is hard. A friend of mine
working on an idea for keeping the feet
warm which he thought would make his
fortune has landed himself in hospital.
His idea was special shoes equipped with
weak-power batteries gently warming
plates let into the soles. The contraption
worked admirably for several days, and
he was mentally counting the shekels
that were to pour in when, one wet day,
he discovered that the warmth of his feet
had gone beyond the limit of comfort;
soon, although he shut off his batteries,
he was dancing like a cat on hot bricks,
and by the time he got his shoes off his
feet were badly blistered. He is a trifle
puzzled about what happened. He thinks
perhaps the water seeped in and boiled.
Now he is looking for a way to counter
the difficulty. An inventor is ever an
optimist.
* * *
“M’Lou”: Rural delivery-service. I
bagged a ride home from town with our
baker, who does a 30-mile round twice
a week. The regular carter, away on his
honeymoon, had left a detailed list of
instructions for his substitute, who
carried the list clipped to the dashboard.
The gem of it was “Two buns each trip
to Blank’s dog.”
* * , * *
“Sing 9”: These stories of coves push-
ing into the uncharted wilderness leave
me cold. The other morning I drove a
car from Sydney’s Rose Bay to the city.
By Edgecliff post-office I sat in a queue
for minutes while a desperate cop pushed
traffic from four roads round into Ocean-
street. Having got into that street I fol-
lowed some cars which dived down lanes,
ran into dead-ends, completed circles and
generally got themselves thoroughly lost,
what time the inhabitants of the locality
hung over balconies wondering whether
it was a rush to a new coalmine or to a
pub suspected of having beer. I gave my
leaders away and turned towards Pad-
dington’s main road, where a lady cop
stopped me, said there was a hold-up
and I’d have to “go round that way.”
“That way” led into more lanes and blind
alleys, where presently I encountered an-
other cop who asked me where I’d come
from, bitterly commented on the other
cops for “shovin’ everythin’ my way” and
vaguely waved me on. On I went, to find
myself entangled in trenches and barri-
cades near Sydney showground. Escaped
from there, I headed uphill, got bawled
at by a provost in an Army jeep and
seeped through a lane into the biggest
traffic-jam I’ve ever struck. When I
sorted myself out I was in Oxford-street,
and, exactly 42 minutes after leaving Rose
Bay, three miles away, entered the city.
I’m thinking of swapping the car for a
motor-boat.
NO SECRET STAIR.
“Stefan Zweig records that Balzac at one time
‘enjoyed the amenity of a secret staircase as a
means of escape in case a bailiff or any other
unwelcome visitor should succeed in penetrating to
the front door.’ ”
I’ve done a score of “moonlight flits,”
Dodged countless summonses and writs,
Of bailiffs had my share;
But never have I reached that goal
So lofty to a debtor’s soul —
I’ve had no secret stair.
I’ve fled from city, State and town,
Grown beards that ranged from russet-brown,
Jet black, bright red—then fair;
But never reached the higher flight
When forced to hide myself from sight—
I’ve had no secret stair.
Although I’ve had the best of thrills
When dodging creditors and bills,
Had many hideouts rare,
Have even had a dummy door,
And once lived underneath the floor —
I’ve had no secret stair.
I’ve barricaded house and home,
Withstood long sieges (could not roam),
Bad passwords to my lair!
But, ah, alas, 1 am small fry,
A debtor second-rate am ll’veI —
I’ve had no secret stair.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Bo”; Manton’s block ran up a hill
liberally strewn with big boulders. Heavy
rains would occasionally loosen one, and
then Manton, who lived on his own in a
two-room shanty at the bottom of the
hill, would view its rushing descent, often
perilously close to his residence, with
phlegmatic calm. Ten years of boulder-
dodging he had stood ; once he had come
back from a rare trip to the township to
find that an enormous rock had gone
straight through his skillion kitchen,
eventually coming to rest against his cow-
bail. A neighbor told him it happened
dead on the usual time Manton had his
lunch in the kitchen. It was about six
months after that episode, since when a
couple more big fellows had careered
madly down the hill, that Manton rode
over to Jim Humphrey’s at the Ridge,
and asked him for the loan of his team
of horses, as he proposed shifting his
shack to a different position. “Ah, at
last! ” commented Jim. “I was wonderin’
when you’d wake up. I’d ’a’ shifted it
years ago if it had been me. I thought
them flyin’ boulders ’d get y’ down in
the long run.” “What the devil are y’
talkin’ about?” demanded Manton. “I
found nests o’ white-ants in three
old stumps under the joint. It’s easier
fer me to shift the shack than try an’
clear them out!”
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Back in ’42, when the
Nips were pouring south, there was a
great day on some of the southern
’dromes when the Americans arrived. At
our station they came in Kittyhawks ;
screamed in low over the strip, climbed
and turned ro land and, compared with
the mighty Wirraways we’d been depend-
ing on, these lean machines spelt salva-
tion. With us their pilots continued
training, and most days would find some
of them out at the air-to-ground firing-
range preparing to rip Jap barges. They’d
dive in on the targets, their .s’s snarling,
then just over the tree-tops the Kitties
would pull out sharply, climb straight
and fast, and circle to take up position
for the next run. It all came back the
other day when watching rosellas nib-
bling gumnuts; calm day, warm sun,
silent birds contentedly selecting just the
right nut, when out of the sun came a
steely rocket and smack! The light
branches shook as the falcon crashed
“Boy! Oh boy! A radiator !”
through. He climbed straight and fast,
but erratically, like a plane shuddering
after being hit, for he hadn’t killed
cleanly and the parrot was still strug-
gling ; but once he gained height he
swung in a wide circle, and bent his head
to attend to his gaudy cargo, after which
it hung limp. A few wide circuits, then
he straightened out and glided to the top
of a dead gum, and when I last saw him
he was still sunning himself, superior to
any low-born desire to guzzle his meat
immediately on such perfect day.
“Solitude”: Seventyfiver’s nag had de-
veloped intervals of lameness, and he’d
borrowed a hack from the station, going
over there each morning to collect it.
“Must be getting easier to catch,” I re-
marked when he arrived back a bit
earlier than usual. “No. Gettin’t’ know
him, that’s all,” he replied. “Hopeless
on foot, but as long as y’re ridin’ some-
thin’ he makes straight for the yards ;
so I use old Hoppy t’ bring him in.”
“And how do you catch Hoppy?” “Aw,
he’s easy enough,” he drawled. “Blue’s
only got to nip him a coupla times and
he comes right up.” “Yes, but Blue isn’t
much of a heeler.” “He’s awright long
as there’s another mong with him,” de-
fended the old bloke. “That’s why I
borrered this tyke o’ Sandy’s. Sandy
reckoned he c’d do without him for a
bit if I lent him our rabbit-traps.” “Our
traps! But hold on,” I protested, “how
are we going to feed our own dogs?”
“Well,” he explained, “young Hansen is
rabbitin’ back o’ Granite Ridge an’ I
thought we c’d get a bundle o’ carcasses
down t’ the turn-off with the mail-cart
a couple o’ times a week.” “What, and
pack them in from there?” “Yair,” he
nodded. “ ’Course, I’ll have t’ see the
mail bloke about it first. And see Han-
sen. Dunno yet how I’ll get the bunnies
down t’ the mail-cart. Anyway, I got t’
arrange somethin’; cripes, a bloke’s .got
t’ have a nag.”
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”; “Edjudina” might
have had better luck with the water in
his salt pools (B. 29/6/’49) if he’d filled
his belly from the centre of the pool
and not dipped deep. In that coun-
try—the W.A. goldfields—you’ll find
chains of lakes, mostly salt but with an
occasional fresh lake at odd intervals.
If there’s any fresh-water in the salt
lakes it is in the centre and on top, since
fresh-water is lighter than salt and floats
on it. Once, when a high tide carried
salt over the dam across the Canning
River (W.A.) the settlers raised their
footvalves to the top of the stream, float-
ing boards above them to prevent a vor-
tex with a consequent intake of air.
Fresh-water doesn’t mingle freely with
salt-water. Swim across a fresh river
where it mingles with tidal waters, as at
an estuary, and you’ll freeze as you
plough through the cold, fresh streams.
And the River Plate remains fresh a
couple of miles out to sea. As for using
kopi as a precipitant for mud in water —
a handful of ashes does the trick without
leaving any ill-effect.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Harry the JJuck, full of
beer, wandered into the local park about
sundown and fell asleep under a tree. He
awoke about two hours later, slightly
hazy as to his whereabouts but aware of
the cold. “Berrer gerrout o’ this,” he
muttered, and wavered round till he
found the gate, where he fell down seven
concrete steps, bumped his head and set
his nose bleeding: He got up, blundered
into an obstruction, thought it was a
fence and climbed over it.. On the other
side he fell among soft substances, sighed
and snuggled down, dropping into a
mixture of sleep and unconsciousness in-
duced by the beer, the’knock on the head
and the warmth of his new situation.
Later, he awoke again, almost sober and
with a sore head, sat up and discovered
himself to be in a motor-truck among
bags of chaff. He got down and made for
the town in search of a reviver. But he
couldn’t find the town, and when dawn
arrived shortly he gaped to discover him-
self surrounded by the rolling plains. He
turned back in time to see two men
appear, get in the truck and drive off. It
took Harry three days to get home by
walking and begging lifts, and ever since
that he religiously refuses to drink after
3 p.m.
“Sth. E.”; Old Ted called for drinks
and dropped a coin on the bar. The
pub bloke filled the glasses, eyed the two-
bob and shook his head. “No good,
Ted,he murmured. “Got any more?”
“Eh?” Ted looked bewildered. “What’s
the matter with it?” He picked up the
coin, turned it over, rang it on the' bar-
top, then slowly his dial blazed with
righteous indignation. “A dud!” he
gasped. “Now what low-down blank
“Cant I have a foam bath in peace ?”
rung that in on me? Gripes, I’ll break
his flamin’ neck. Must ’a’ got it since
I hit town,” he pondered. “Only had a
deener an’ a coupla coppers when I
left home. Yair, an’ I changed a quid
in the store, but I don’t think Harry ’d
put that over me —or would he? Then
I paid Smithie with a ten-bob note, an’
he gimme some change. ’Struth, an’ I
always thought Smithie was a decent sort
o’ cove! Feller never knows, does he?
It’s plain daylight robbery. Yair, an’
wait on ... I changed another quid at the
garage. Now, I wonder. ’Course Herb
could ’ve done it. Can’t trust anybody
these days. Just the same as pinchin’
money out of a man’s pocket, that is.
Flamin’ lot o’ crooks.” Ted’s dud two-
bob created mild local interest, and two
days later Bung was still commenting on
its workmanship. “Hardly tell it was a
brummy,” he remarked. “Got it on you,
Ted?” “Not on y’r life,” replied the old
bloke. “Don’t think I was gonna keep it
as a souvenir, do y’? I got rid o’ the
blasted thing to Doughy, when I paid f’r
me bread.”
* * * *
“Jona h”: Springing snakes (B.
29/6/’49)? While we were at Tel el
Kebir a member of our unit was bitten
by a small but deadly black viper. He
died before we could get him to the
r.m.o. Next day the same r.m.o. gave a
lecture on the subject. “If you see one,”
he said, “jump on to something. A snake
can’t strike higher than its own length.”
The gravity of the occasion was spoilt
by the cove who growled “WhatTe we to
do —stop and measure it first?”
* * * *
“Kelms”: By abolishing the nuptial
flight the Argentine ant may have set it-
self on the highway to world domina-
tion (B. 29/6/’49); but that and its-own
annihilation will be accomplishe4 simul-
taneously. Efficiency in individual species
is discouraged beyond a certain point by
nature, which prefers a balance. The
only species which has ever seriously
threatened man’s existence —the termite
—might have achieved world conquest
if it had chosen a better system of estab-
lishing new colonies, but it would have
ruled a world denuded of vegetation and
uninhabitable by termites. Every living
creature lives by the grace of some other
—often despised—inhabitant of the
globe; and nature withholds from any
one species the power to destroy its un-
known friends. The method of restric-
tion is not always obvious to the species.
The termite queen flies gloriously on her
nuptial flight. Man, for his part, thinks
highly of his Parliaments, his trade
treaties and his planned economies.
* * * *
“Colonial Cove”: So “G’snatcher” (B.
22/6/’49) finds it strange that the abo.
of the pre-white era did not master and
tame the dingo. If he reads the journals
of Lieut. George Grey, George F.
Moore and others who traversed the
primitive forests of W.A. he will find
that the abo. did. In his account of ex-
plorations along the Glenelg River in the
north-west Grey tells of meeting a native
followed by several obviously tame dogs,
though it was largely as potential pro-
vender that Binghi harbored such canines:
the dingo is notoriously of no practical
value as a hunter of the grown kangaroo,
though a wild pack might comer a small
Too and drag it down. It was when the
white arrived with his deerhounds that
the kangaroo got the real tally-ho. “G.”
also errs in speaking of the ease with
which Binghi gained a living. Early
journals give quite the reverse side of
the picture. Game was scarce in the
forests: the constant preying of the dingo
on immature marsupials kept the kan-
garoo tribe at a very low ebb. Surveyor
Roe tells of the half-famished state of
many aboriginals met with on his many
explorations ; of the eagerness with which
they accepted even the entrails of a ’roo
which the whites had shot for themselves.
Dr. Collie, out north of King George’s
Sound, gives the same picture. Protector
of Aboriginals Phillips, in the same
locality, tells in 1837 of native women so
famished as to live almost constantly on
roots so acrid as to cause their mouths
to become inflamed to the extent that they
sucked wet river-clay to obtain relief. It
was when the black realised that the
white with his gun was practically ex-
terminating the already scarce game that
much of the subsequent conflict arose.
* * * *
“Flight”: The mutton-birds which re-
turn to their island nurseries each year
and the Torrest Strait pigeons which
appear over the islands regularly on a
September day—a fact well-known to
alleged sportsmen —can teach nothing of
punctuality to the swifts which make their
annual flight over the Barkly Tableland
(Q.). At one station I saw them three
years in succession come exactly at 3.30
p.m. on November 11. And, at the very
moment of their arrival over the same
spot the ground burst in little eruptions
and flights of droning beetles rose verti-
cally to the beaks that were waiting to
snap them.
• * * •
“Ophir”: Playing the fool with a black
snake, I had it pinched behind the head
while its body curled round my arm.
Those coils grew tighter; my finger and
thumb became cramped from their long
hold. I dare not let go ; I could not
hang on, I called to Murlonga, the abo.
who was with me, to come and help. He
rolled over in his glee at my predicament.
But the snake seemed to have the idea
that he was on a winner, and at last Mur-
longa took a tumble that I wasn’t putting
on a show. “Put ’em arm belong-it fire,”
he advised. “Put ’em like that one”—
and he swept his arm quickly through the
near-by fire, I followed his advice. The
flames touched Joe, but not long enough
to singe the hairs on my arm. He eased
his grip, wriggled uneasily, loosed and
hung flaccid in my hand.
» ♦ * •
“Baramg”: Around Darwin one of the
most populous of birds is the delicate
owl, which for some reason is on the
noxious list. Yet it is one of our most
useful fowl, for it is sudden death on
rats and mice. Unique is Ma Owl’s
method of raising her young. A hole in
a tree and a few crossed sticks is sufficient
in which to deposit the two snow-white
eggs. Mum and Dad take it in turns to
keep these to incubation heat until the
first hatching. The next two eggs, how-
ever, are left unattended in company
with the two fledglings, which supply the
necessary heat for further incubation.
When four lively young birds are in
charge of the nest a further two eggs are
laid, and these are also hatched by the
youngsters,
SOLSTICE.
I trace my trail on Winter’s frosted glass.
The long beach dull save where the shallows
shine;
The wind finds voices in the withered grass,
And where the waves die winter’s eyes meet
mine, 0
Bleak and inhuman, glittering from a mask.
And all this world lies crushed in winter’s hand,
The shells like fallen stars in seaweed’s dusk,
The sodden driftwood sinking in the sand,
The grey horizon melting in the night.
The fingers of the waves slip from my own,
Sand stings, and storm-clouds roll and spill
their light;
Their thunder drums me home. And now, alone,
Winter resumes its mask to hide its hate,
While ghosts of summer flicker in my grate.
N.S.W.
COL M.


“Woolly”; Dad eyed the sheep left in
the shed and approached the boss of
the shearing-gang. “Think they’ll cut
’em out t’night?” he inquired anxiously.
The contractor shook his head. “Would
they work a few minutes longer then?”
Dad suggested. “I’d like t’ get that mob
out.” “Not on your life they wouldn’t.”
“Well, would y’ mind if me own boys
finished them afterwards?” Dad in-
quired. “Too right we’d mind!” The
old bloke looked worried. “Well, is there
any chance o’ the men doin’ ’em for us
Sat’dee mornin’?” he persisted. “What,
work on Saturday! Square up!” came
the growl, “We finish t’day with the bell,
and start again on Monday, and don’t
frget it.” “Yes, but we couldn’t get any
more musterers,” Dad explained, “and
if those were cut out, we c’d shift the
mob away on Sunday and bring in the
next bunch, ready. We’re awful short-
handed.” “Well, .that’s just too bad for
you.” The contractor mooched off. Two
minutes after the bell that evening he
sought Dad. “F’rgot to tell you we want
meat tonight,” he informed. “Right out,
are you?” asked the old bloke. “Yair.
Cook’s growling about it. Y’ll have to
kill us a lamb tonight. Nowhere else we
can get any.” Dad glanced at the clock.
“Well, now, that’s too bad f’r you,” he
replied pleasantly. “Don’t y’ see, it’s just
after knock-off, and we won’t be able t’
kill again now till next Monday!”
* * * #
“Nor’-west”: Opening a shark’s
stomach is always interesting. Out off
the Ninety-mile Beach, n.-w. W.A., we
hooked a 12-footer, and that’s plenty big
enough to byng aboard a lugger. With
a broken sweep and an axe we persuaded
the tiger to stay quiet. Stomach con-
tents included two remora, or sucker-fish,
one about 2ft. long, with an empty milk-
tin tied to its tail, the joke probably of
the Malay crew of some other lugger.
Then there were two large mangrove
crabs; a crayfish that would have
brought 7s. 6d. in any Eastern
capital; and a very dead gull. Fairly
good living for a sea-scavenger. Out-
side Fremantle years later we lifted
a 14-footer that had dined even better.
Along with a lump of corned-beef and
a small leg of lamb, its stomach also
accommodated half a dozen tins of sar-
dines, provender which had probably
been tossed overboard from some nation-
alised coaster; the bright tins, shining in
their descent had been taken by the shark
as fish and promptly gulped down. Con-
tents were intact and made a nice change
from the too-abundant diet of fresh fish.
* * * *
“G. 8.”: Ants, especially of the red
type, were one of the worst bugbears of
the Digger in the tropical north. The
Singapore type, lighter in color,- would
attack madly as we passed through under-
growth. But even more vicious was an-
other and smaller species. Their speci-
ality, being flesh-eaters, was to find a
way through the tortuous windings of
bandages until they reached a wound.
Many an orderly was called in the night
to pick the little beggars from a stump or
fracture-cavity. One soldier whose foot
was completely “anaesthetised” because the
main nbrve of the leg had been severed
by an explosive bullet was forced to wear,
night and day, a boot into the heel of
which was inserted a walking caliper,
and which kept the knitting fracture in
place. Idly watching these small ants
going to and from his boot, he suspected
silent sabotage, and asked for investiga-
tion. This revealed that beneath the elas-
toplast was a maze of furrows in the sur-
face of the flesh. The big toe had been
made into a gallery, with rooms reserved
for the queen and her consorts in prepara-
tion for the later egg-laying stage. I know
•—it was my foot.
♦ * * ♦
“Mat’s Mate”; “I’m humpin’ the drum
out be Cookardinia once,” Mat said, “an’
run into a drover with a van, a boy, three
dogs an’ about six hundred sheep. ‘Here,’
he says ; ‘hop in ’ere an’ keep these sheep
movin’ till X get back.’ I heave the drum
into the van, take the reins an’ look at
him.- He makes the boy get off the horse,
"I'll say it's not cricket!”
gets on it himself and canters off up the
road. Me an’ the kid an’ the dogs amble
along behind the sheep an’ I ask the kid
where his boss went. He don’t know.
Says he only got the job the day before,
an’ all he knows is the sheep is goin’ t’
some place up near Uranquinty. Well,
we camp that night. No boss. No boss
next day or the next. It’s got me beat,
but the kid don’t know nothin’ an’ the
dogs know their work, so I just kep’ goin’
because it was better than walkin’, an’
there was a full tucker-box. We get past
Mangopla an’ two blokes come in a
motor-car with the boss.. They put him
in the van. ‘Where’s his horse?’ I asks.
‘Cripes,’ they says, ‘did he have a horse?’
We get talkin’, an’ it comes out. Y’ know,
he’d rid t’ Mangopla, got a few beers,
caught a train up t’ the ’Quinty an’ went
t’ his sister’s weddin’. All they knew was
he had sheep on the road somewhere, an’
when everybody got straightened after
the weddin’ they got the car an’ him an’
started lookin’ for the sheep. Took ’em
two days to find us. Yair, they was so
pleased t’ find ’em all right they gimme a
coupler quid an’ run me up t’ Wagga in
the car.”
* * * *
“Betcha”: My new sheepdog is no
killer. As it is against his rules to eat
anything alive, and they smell too good
to leave behind, a rabbit he picks up is
in for adventure. Noticed him on the
job the other day, lumping a bunny he’d
collected. He worked as usual, flopped
his prize on the ground when a bark
or two was ordered, and promptly
retrieved it again. Opposite the dam he
turned aside according to custom, swam
to the middle, then deposited the bunny
while he drank. Three times during his
refresher he dashed for the bank to grab
his escaping prisoner and return it to
deep water. After a further half-hour of
trailing sheep in the dust his catch was
scarcely recognisable. Arriving home.
Bunny took a turn in the milk-trough,
was granted a respite in the chaff-bin, and
received a minor part in a wild chase
after a trespassing cow. When I went in
search of the mong a bit later he was
busy hunting a lizard under the bed-log
of a gate. There was no sign of his
former captive, and I suspect that a sadder
and wiser bunny seized the opportunity
to skip off home and try to explain his
bedraggled appearance.
* * * *
“Kriz”: Old-time pearlers would be
amazed.(B, 13/7/’49) if the four skeletons
found on a nor’-Westralian beach, and
which allegedly have puzzled the experts,
turned out to be the bodies of deceased
members of luggercrews. In lOyears’ shell-
opening on luggers out of Broome before
World War I, I never came across a
kanaka among the crew of the pearling
fleet. Moreover, all the old-time pearlers
had a healthy respect for the law in the
shape of the Fisheries Inspectors, who
were well pripied-up as to what was go-
ing on both ashore and afloat. When we
indented such colored labor as Koe-
pangers, Chinese, Japanese, South Sea
Islanders, Malays and Manilamen, all
heads were counted, and if they didn't
show up at the end of their two-year
term you were for it. Even going as far
back as 1888, when native divers were
recruited by the pearlers of Cossack, the
inspectors were on the job, and any tres-
passers against the law found that it had
a long arm, A case in point. Two blow-
ins from Thursday Island so badly treated
a native diver that when they got him to
Cossack he lasted only two weeks. The
fisheries inspector reported the matter to
the nor’-west police, who traced the cul-
prits to Torres Strait. It took the police
three years to catch up with them, six
months to bring them to Fremantle for
trial, and another six months before their
case came on. Captain Freeman, master
of the cutter Charon, a pearling vessel
owned by John Watson, gave evidence
which ended in the culprits getting 10
years’ hard labor in Fremantle jail.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Utterly regardless of
the strike, there’s a team of maintenance
workers busy in our valley. They’re con-
cerned with timber, and without their
constant attention our future supplies of
ironbark would be doubtful. There aren’t
many grubs or beetles busy just now, but
on and under the outer foliage there’s
promise of a bumper crop next season.
Rows of queer eggs, patches of scale, and
peculiar woolly-looking stuff that leaves
a crimson smear when touched and makes
the leaves sticky ;• and it’s here the toilers
take their toll. Dusky woodswallows
were plentiful there today ; there wasn’t a
breath of wind, and they swung right at
the ends of the outer branches, the white
tips to their tails and the few white
primaries in the wings clear in the sun as
they fanned both to keep balance. In
the spring, of course, these chaps will be
in the van of grasshopper destruction,
but they’re doing a good job in the mean-
time. With them, and inclined to chal-
lenge their right there, are a few honey-
eaters ; but working away quietly and too
busy to notice the arguments of the others
are tiny diamond birds —the spotted and
the yellow-tipped. They work as though
the rationing of wogs’ eggs is imminent,
slipping out along the twigs, scanning
both surfaces of the leaves, hopping to
the next and dealing with anything edible,
fluttering to a new sector and starting all
over again. They haven’t much to say
and take little notice of passers; and it
is possible that their very presence is un-
known to some tree-owners to whom
their worth is unassessable. You shouldn’t
gauge a bloke’s value to the community
by the limelight he gets.
* * * *
“014 Bushman” Although I’ve known
the hollow booming notes of the bittern
all my life and, on horseback along the
Murray, I’ve often flushed the motley-
colored birds to see them, with legs hang-
ing down, fly away on slow-moving
wings, I’ve never had a close-up of one
until the other day. They are surprisingly
beautiful birds. Waiting for a duck-shot
in a swamp a bird, larger and more up-
right than a crane, came stalking by,
knee-deep in water, with his neck out-
stretched, At first I didn’t recognise him.
His purply-brown head and beak were
contrasted vividly by a dark-brown ruff
collar and brownish tail. At the slightest
sound the wader stretched out his tele-
scope-like neck to its full extent and
stopped. Then, when he seemed con-
vinced that all was well, he went on hunt-
ing for frogs, little fish and aquatic
insects. It is one of the quietest birds
imaginable.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’!”: In an endeavor to
check a sand-blow 50ft. to 60ft. high
which, at the 10-mile peg, has moved to
within half a chain of the Zeehan-
Strahan railway on Tasmania’s wild west
coast, 28 tons of marram-grass roots are
being planted. Half the roots will come
from the nor’-west coast. Some years
ago, because of this sand encroachment,
the line was shifted to its present position,
but further moving will be very costly and
restricted to one and a half chains be-
cause of swamp areas. Engineering
authorities who, with the Speck’s Minister
for Lands Reece and other departmental
heads, recently inspected the blow told
the party if it wasn’t checked the sand
would reach Strahan within 20 years.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: To me kan-
garoo-rats will always be associated with
the Cape York Peninsula, where, in those
sparsely-populated wilds, there were
dozens of these miniature ’roos to the
square mile and, incidentally, one in our
tent every night. The trouble with hav-
ing Too-rats in your tent is that they can
see at night while you can’t, so when
one of them finds himself in your boudoir
he indulges in some eardrum-bursting
trumpeting calls. At that camp, too, we
adopted a ’roo-rat we called George who
used to come along every night for scraps
at tea-time; his antics, whether he was
eating damper, washing himself and ex-
ploring our bush-kitchen, were as
comical as those of any monkey. After
George joined forces with us he kept
other inquisitive ’hoppers away; but
when a rival did appear the fighting of
these little marsupials was as rowdy as
that of a pair of tomcats.
SEVEN FOR A SECRET.
Night is a hollow shell,
Empty of sound.
Moon, star or melody
Not to be found!
Roofed with sad cyclamen,
Deep violet.
No constellations
Soar upward or set.
No friendly mopoke
Up on the height
Passes another
The time of the night.
Never a curlew
Calls from the sky
And no phantom echo
Makes eerie reply.
Suddenly music comes
With a long sweep
Through seven dark harp-strings
Against the dark steep. ft
Seven tall poplars
That know me of old
Are crying me, calling me
Out in the cold.
Even to winter
Their harpings belong;
They may part with their plumage
But never their song.
I see through their summits
The breeze running high
And the lights coming on
In the streets of the sky.
VICTORIA.
K. DALZIEL.
RADIO ROUSEABOUT
As we grow
older we change
our specs every
two years or so,
and wonder each
time how we put
up with the old
ones as long as we did, even though the
eye is the most critical of our senses.
Trouble is, today, that the kind of valves
that Mullard have been making in the last
thirty years keep on giving us the winner
of the last (after the race unfortunately),
and fairly good listening to our favorite
serials much longer than is really good
for us. , We don’t realise, until we pop
in a new set of Mullard valves, just how
the ear has got used to being cheated bit
by bit as the valves slowly deteriorate,
and lose that fullness of tone and ample
volume that made us glow with pride
when we first brought the radio home
several years ago. Try it and see!
* * * *
Loop aerials, as used in the grand new
Mullard portable, are by no means new,
but of course*, ever so much more com-
pact and efficient than in the old days.
Remember landing a sale of an American
Neutrodyne with a loop up Maryborough
(Q.) way back in ’25 and. Mum insisting,
I bung it on a table near a particularly
wide-open window. Boisterous winds and
flying curtains made the last few delicate
adjustments fairly trying—but Mum in-
sisted it stay on the table under the
window. Only when the job was finally
installed and Brisbane came belting in
did Mum come across with—“lt is going
to be a bit draughty in the winter, but
this is the only window we can open
that points down South!”
* * * *
Every time I see a happy bloke walking
out of a dealer shop with a new Mullard
“Thousand,” “Eleven -O - Seven” or
“Eleven-O-Three” “looked” under arm
in a neat cardboard carton ready to plug-
in, I think of the days of ’25 when I was
peddling wireless on the Riverina from a
30cwt. truck. Next stop after getting the
customer’s name on the dotted line was
the local timber-yard, then to the
customer’s backyard with two 20ft.
lengths of Oregon and half a day’s work
and well into the night rigging a 40ft.
mast-aerial, lead-in and earth-wire (light-
ning switch and all). After practically re-
building the set (they were a bit flimsy in
thosa days) with a huge audience com-
prising the. family and expectant
neighbors, you eventually switched on to a
regular fusilade of atmospherics and, in
the background, a station fading badly.
You then had to do a bit of patter and
sideplay with one ear glued to the earpiece
waiting for the station to come to life
again through the trash, then switch on
the speaker and hope for the best. It was
then a case of figuring out whether you
hopped on to the next village before your
customer wanted his money back or tak-
ing a chance as to whether he would
recompiend this newfangled wireless to
any of his friends when you called round
in the morning. No chicken-hearted job
selling the idea of wireless let alone a
set in those days.— advt.


' :• '
Wheelbase Ih. Jin.
Turning Radius Bft. 9in.
Width of Sweep sft. 3in. f
Water Tank 90 gallons.
Track 4ft. Bin.
Refuse Bin Capacity 18 c. ft.
3 speed, 2-15 miles per hour
and reverse.
THE "JOHNSTON”
MOBILE SWEEPER AND COLLECTOR
The outstanding feature is the “channell brush” operating on an entirely
new principle. It definitely cleans out the channels or gutters in a manner
never before achieved.
The litter is brushed within the track of the main sweeper brush, delivered
on to the belt and carried into the container. The channel and main sweeper
brushes can be raised or lowered together or independently.
Send fat catalogue and quotation to Australian Agents:
R. E. JACKMAN & CO., LIMITED
57 Flinders Street, Adelaide, South Australia.
THE WILDAL COUMN
Kelvinator Australia, Ltd. (Adelaide)
! Dividends x
Ist 2nd 3rd- Re-
Mar., Profit. Prefs. Prefs. Prefs. Ord. Total, serves.
£ p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c. £ £
1940 10,256 6 10 5,600 20,718
1941 6,143 74 6 10 5,600 21,261
1942 ■ 7,388 71 6 10 5,600 1 23,049
1943 8,294 71 6 10 5,600 25,743
1944 9,704 71 6 10 7,020 28,427
1945 19,213 71 6 10 8,700 38,940
1946 23,422 71 6 5 10 12,265 50,097
Consolidated Figures.
1947 24,310 71 6 5 10 16,200 58,323
Share premiums, £45,000 ~ .. 103,323
1948 52,675 71 6 5 10 29,075 126,923
Share premiums, £90,000 .. .. 216,923
1949 99,667 71 6 5 15 57,200 259,390^
This 17-year-old and its three subsidiaries
turn out high-grade domestic and com-
mercial refrigeration units, electric petrol
pumps, washing-machines and other
household appliances. The business has
given a very good account of itself from
the start. Ord. divs. averaged 7.5 p.c.
for the first four years, followed by a
steady 10 p.c. for the 11 years to close
of accounts in 1948, and 15 p.c, last term,
an over-all average of 9.7 p.c. Paid
capital, which advanced from around
£20,000 in 1936 to £64,941 in 1939, had
reached £200,000 in 1945, since when ex-
pansion has been rapid, the figure reach-
ing £680,000 at end March last. Still,
demand has continued to run ahead of
production, which has been hampered by
shortages of materials and skilled labor, and
by strikes, absenteeism, etc., all of which
have had their inevitable impact upon costs.
As a backing to its efforts to increase
efficiency and reduce costs, the co. has
organised its main factories at Keswick
and Finsbury (S. Aus.) on mass-produc-
tion lines and equipped them with the
most modern plant obtainable. And the
same remarks apply to the subsidiaries
—Peerless .Refrigeration Aus. Pty. (Syd-
ney), which turns out commercial re-
frigeration equipment and services house-
hold refrigerators sold by the parent under
warranty; Appliances, Ltd. (Finsbury),
which makes absorption-type refrigera-
tors ; and Wayne Pumps (Aus.), Ltd. (Kes-
wick), which manufactures electric petrol-
pumps under arrangement with the Wayne
Pump Co. (U.S.A.). The parent also has
a servicing and sales branch at Mel-
bourne, and a retailing offshoot, Kelvina-
tor Service Co., in Adelaide.
Output increased substantially last
term, thanks partly to stockpiling of
scarce raw materials and partly to plant
expansion. And, better still, turnover
(amount unstated) increased by 59.4 p.c.
So, despite the sharp rise in costs, net
earnings of the group were £46,992 better
at £99,667. That was after allowing
£92,521 (up £72,856) for taxation and
adding £47,044 to the depreciation re-
serve (£145,959), which is deducted from
plant in the published accounts. The
£99,667 covered the pref. divs, and 29.1
p.c. on average ord ± capital as against
18, 19.2, 28.6 and 25.4 p.c. back to 1945.
On ord. capital as it now stands the
year’s profit was equal to 19.4 p.c., after
meeting pref. requirements. A “special”
5 p.c. bonus was added to the 10 p.c.
div., making 15 p.c. for the year.
To reduce the overdraft (down £371,491)
and help finance further expansion,
180,000 new £1 ords. were issued at a
premium of 10s. each shortly before the
close of accounts —the premium (£90,000)
was added to reserves:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Paid capital— 1947. 1948. 1949.
Pref. .. .. £140,000 £230,000 £230,000
Ordinary . . . . 175,989 270,000 450,000
Overdraft .. .. 228,826 475,465 103,974
Creditors, etc 101,052 231,293 323,779
Tax provision .. .. 23,501 30,330 100,989
Freeholds .. . . 96,433 127,437 140,494
Plamt 79,468 152,831 191,383
Stocks 476,614 906,774 1,012,934
Debtors 83,894 185,302 160,429
Cash 632 7,892 492
Stocks, up £106,160, and in at cost or
market price whichever is the lower, is
the item that catches the eye. It accounts
for 67.3 p.c. of total assets, and con-
sists largely of scarce raw materials,
especially high-quality sheet steel. As
materials become more readily available
the management expects to work on a
much lower investment in stocks. Sub-
stantial reduction of the item without mis-
hap will call for nice judgment. More
or less liquids exceeded outside liabilities
(including tax provision) by £645,113 (up
£282,233).
Post-war results have been won under
abnormal conditions, which don’t' look
like lasting much longer. The market for
domestic refrigeration is approaching
saturation-point, and, for the first time
for over a decade, both local and over-
seas competition is beginning to make
itself felt. However, the co. is technically
well equipped and enjoys a wide good-
will, all of which ought to mean much
provided Cpmmunist-led labor can be re-
strained from disrupting the economy.
And, should there be any substantial
change in the market, many things could
be done with the co.’s present compre-
hensive plant, the chairman says.'
At 31s. lOd. (41s. 9d. a year ago) the
ords. return 9.4 p.c, so long as the 15
p.c. distribution continues, or 6.3 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis. At 265, and 21s.
7d. the 6 p.c. and 5 p.c. cum. prefs, each
yield 4.6 p.c. The participating prefs.
(6 p.c. to l-\ p.c.) seldom come on to the
market. Net tangible backing is 275. 7d.
all shares —the prefs. enjoy priority as to
divs. and capital and share in surplus
assets.
Larke Hoskins & Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
April, Profit. , Dividends s serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1946 .. 9,700 10 p.c. = 5,970 3,730 28,899
Reserves capitalised, £9602 .. . • 20,297
Uhexplained addition to res., £2947.. 23,244
1947 .. 21,448 15 p.c. = 12,000 9,448 32,692
To inner reserves, £21,996 . . .. 10,696
Pref. Ord. Total,
p.c. p.c. £
1948 .. 50,089 5 15 13,500 36,589 47,285
1949 ..107,272 5 15 13,500 93,772 141,057
To stock reserve, £30,000 .. •, 111,057
This co., whose scrip was listed in July,
1947, has been in the motor-trade since
the beginning of the century. It is now
sole distributor in N. S. Wales (except
portion of the Northern Rivers and
Riverina) for Austin cars, trucks and
marine engines, owns a modern body-
building and assembly works at Camper-
down, and has a repair and servicing
station at East Sydney. Only tourer and
utility bodies are made at Camperdown,
sedans come from the former Ruskin
Co.’s works at Melbourne, taken over
last year by the Austin Motor Co. of
England to help quicken retail deliveries
of cars.
The phenomenal increase in profits over
the last three years largely reflects the
opportunity the dollar problem has pro-
vided for distributors of' British-made
motor vehicles, as well as the improve-
ment in delivery of chassis and outturn of
bodies, which have been the chief bottle-
neck in retail deliveries. Since the war
average monthly registrations of new
motor - vehicles in N. S. Wales have
stepped along in this way:
Monthly Commercial
Average, Cars. Vehicles,
1946 .. .. 320 408
1947 .. .. 1018 661
1948' .. .. 1800 891
April,’49.. .. 2222 1029
British cars accounted for 70’p.c. of total
new registrations in 1948 and 80 p.c. in
the first four months of 1949 as against
40 p.c. and less pre-war. And 44 p.c. of
new commercial-vehicle registrations in
1948 were British makes as against about
20 p.c. before the war.
With plenty of money about to back a
pent-up demand, all sections of the co.’s
business hummed like a hive of bees in
summertime last term. The growth in
turnover dwarfed the increase in exes.,
and, after making “adequate” provision
for taxation and allowing £16,000 (up
£6800) for depreciation, net earnings
more than doubled, reaching £107,272.
That was a juicy 132.2 p.c. on the £BO,OOO
of ord. capital, after allowing for the
pref. div, (£1500), as against 60.7, 26.8
and 16.4 p.c, for the three preceding
years. Uncertain of what lies ahead in
the trade, the present board kept the div.
at 15 p.c. (half of it tax-free in the hands
of shareholders), and earmarked £30,000
of the £93,772 that remained as a stock-
fluctuation reserve. This reserve (now
£50,000) is equal to 8.4 p.c. of the at-or-
under-cost figure (£595,155) at which
stocks appear. The other £63,772 lifted
general and other reserves £1057 higher
than the £llO,OOO of paid capital.
Chassis came forward quicker than
bodies could be made and vehicles
assembled, as the growth of £361,455 in
stock and of £735,893 in the amount
coming to creditors, etc. —the item in-
cludes deposits from a queue of impatient
buyers and something for taxation —
clearly shows:
1946. 1947. 1948. 1949’.
Paid capital.. £59,703 £BO,OOO £llO,OOO £llO,OOO
Overdrafts .. 64,663
Creditors, etc.* 22,255 58,726 150,330 886,223
Freeholds .. 21,914 21,907 21,908 90,000
Plant, etc. .. 2,023 17,537 24,493 39,651
Stock .. 44,772 161,676 183,700 545,155
Debtors .. 6,167 22,048 32,274 46,830
Investments.. 31,531 17,531 19,598 28,797
Cash, etc. .. 11,420 2,887 38,293 309,597
* Includes provision for taxation.
The growth of £331,304 in cash, etc.,
suggests that the deposits are substantial.
Purchase of new factory premises and
extensions to plant, etc., show up in
additions of £68,092 to freehold and of
£15,158 to plant. The more-or-less liquid
surplus was £104,156 (down £19,379).
Although the hold-up of body-building,
assembly and deliveries, owing to the coal
strike and power restrictions, will affect
the current year’s earnings, a full order-
book and worsening of the dollar position
augur well for a satisfactory showing.
The more distant future, however, is full
of uncertainties. Present demand is ab-
normal, competition from the locally-
made Holden car and from other British
makes will steadily increase, costs are
high and still rising, and much will de-
pend upon what ultimately happens in
connection with exchange rates and
dollars.
The market, which expected a more
liberal distribution, prices the ords. at
455. as against 565. 6d. early in 1949. The
return at 455. is 6.6 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div.
basis. The 5 p.c. prefs at 225. yield 4.5
p.c. Net tangible cover is £7 7s. 4d. prefs.
and 475. 9d. ords.
Marchant’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
Net To
May, profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £,£,£.
1940.. 12,443 10 p.c. = 7,253 5190 48,442
1941.. 11,639 12 „ „ 8,703 2936 51,378
1942.. 11,351 12 „ „ 8,704 2647 54,025
1943.. 11,679 12 „ „ 8,704 2975 57,000
1944.. 8,958 12 . „ „ 8,704 264 57,254
1945.. 12,113 15 „ „ 10,880 1233 58,487
1946.. 18,128 lli „ ~12,693 5430 63,917
1947.. 15,078 174 „ „ 12,693 2385 66,302
From tax reserve, £lO,OOO .. .. 76,302
1948.. 14,012 174p.c.= 12,693 1319 77,621
Capital profit, £3OO .. .. .. 77,921
1949.. 17,061 20 p.c. = 14,507 2564 80,475
The pound shares in this snug little 39-
year-old manufacturer of soft drinks are
one of the few stocks that have field well
in a generally sagging market. At the
current price of 70s. —fluctuation has
amounted to little more than Is. over the
last 18 months —the return is 5.7 p.c. so
long as the 20 p.c. distribution continues,
or 4.3 p.c. should the rate drop to 15
p.c. Visibly net tangible cover is 395.
5d., of which 325. 9d. is represented by
Government securities and cash, etc.
It is the combination of an exception-
ally strong liquid position and robust
earning-power that the market likes.
Early in the piece the board adopted the
sound long-range policy of liberally
writing-down the book-value of fixed
assets out of earnings and accumulating
cash, etc., and then from this source
financing further expansion of the busi-
ness. So, despite keen competition, rising
costs, fluctuations in seasonal conditions
and shortage of materials (especially
bottles), the co. has been able to win
attractive results and pay a high and in-
creasing rate of div., which has doubled
over the last decade, the average for this
period being 14.5 p.c.
Last term more bottles and other
materials became available, sales were a
record, and so was profit (£17,061, up
£3049), which was 25.3 p.c. on capital as
against *20.2, 21.7, 26.1, 17.5 and 12.9
p.c, back to 1944. A special 5 p.c. bonus
(2£ p.c. in the previous term) was added
to the 15 p.c. div., making 20 p.c. for the
year.
The coal strike and its inevitable legacy
will, of course, bite into the current year’s
earnings. But additions to plant (up
£12,576) and stock (up £10,003) suggest
that the co. is ready to widen its con-
nections immediately opportunity offers:
1942. 1947. 1948. 1949-
Paid capital .. £72,534 £72,534 £72,534 £72,634
Liabilities* '.. 15,902 56,553 80,682 40,897
Freeholds .. .. 28,797 25,594 25,594 25,734
Plant, etc 24,718 6,978 6,144 18,720
Stocks .. .. 10,726 11,046 8,784 18,787
Book debts, etc... 759 697 1,211 922
Public securities.. 54,965 94,905 99,965 105,640
Cash, etc. .. 29,305 64,449 48,205 34,258
‘lncludes provision for taxation.
Although a property at Punchbowl was
sold during the year (£3OO of profit there-
from was %ent direct to reserves), free-
holds increased by £l4O net. The co. is in
the fortunate position of being able to
return the whole of its capital without
hamstringing itself in the matter of liquid
resources.
New B.H. Consolidated, Ltd. ,
To Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends.t serves. Reserves.
£* £ * , £* £*
1946 .. 81,057 Nil 81,057 682,478
1947 .. 189,181 20 p.c. = 93,112 90,020 778,498
Share premiums, £711,632 .. . . 1,490,130
1948 .. 322,392, 20 p.c. = 93,112 229,280 1,719,410
t Rate of div. is that declared, but amount is shown
after deducting English tax of 9s. in £. * Sterling.
The mine, which adjoins Zinc Corp.
at the southern end of the line of lode
at the Barrier, promises to rival the great
past and present producers on this field,
which is a major contributor to the
world’s supply of non-ferrous metals. The
property is still in the development stage,
and production, which began in 1945,
has now reached about half the amount
of ore scheduled for treatment in 1952.
Last year peak metal prices and better
throughput enabled exceptionally good
profits to be earned. Including £16,763
added to the accident and welfare funds,
the net result was £322,392 (up £133,261),
or 38 p.c. on capital. And that was after
charging £130,306 (up £26,277) to de-
velopment—which will call for heavy ex-
penditure for some years yet- —£237,000
(up £106,492) for taxation and £68,000
(up £41,400) for depreciation. The div.
was kept at a nominal 20 p.c., worth
11 p.c. (stg.) after deducting British in-
come tax of 9s. in the £.
The co. extracted 103,578 tons (up
41,211 tons) or© from its own mine, and
bought a further 50,524 tons under agree-
ment from Zinc Corp., a total of 154,102
tons, assaying 11.1 p.c. lead, 2.40 z. silver
and 12.2 p.c. zinc. The lot was put
through the Corp.’s mill for 21,254 tons
lead concentrates containing 15,669 tons
lead and 331,1150 z. silver, and 33,096
tons zinc concentrates assaying 52.3 p.c.
zinc. Recoveries were 94.6 p.c. lead, 87.6
p.c. silver and 92.7 p.c. zinc, which speaks
well for mill efficiency. Since 71.4 p.c. of
the co.’s own ore came from the shallow
zincy lodes, the grade is lower than can
be expected later on, when the broad lead
lodes, which enter the co.’s leases below
No, 16 level (2200 ft), are opened up.
Average sterling prices realised for
lead and silver (export, and local sales
combined) were £75 a ton and 4s. 2d. an
ounce respectively as against £6l 17s. 9d.
and 3s. 9d. in 1947. The zinc is sold as
concentrates for which the average figure
realised isn’t mentioned.
The production programme to 1952
is scheduled as follows:
From Oo.’fc Bought
Own Leases. from Z.C. Total.
Tons. Tons. Tons.
1948 ~ .. 108,679 47,788 • 156,467
1949 .. .. 173,000 49,400 222,400
1950 .. .. 184,000 12,000 196,000
1951 .. .. 198,000 198,000
1952 > .. .. 242,000 242,000
The ore-bodies fall into three rnajor divi-
sions: (1) narrow zincy lodes between
Nos. 6 and 12 levels, averaging about
6.5 p.c. lead, 1.30 z.-silver and 14.6 p.c.
zinc ; (2) ‘broad zincy lodes between Nos.
12 and 16 levels, carrying about 4 p.c.
lead, loz. silver and 12 p.c. zinc; (3)
broad lead lode below No. 16 level and
continuing to a depth yet to be proved.
On Nos. 17 and 18 levels there is an


MARX HOUSE
695-697 George Street, SYDNEY
Incorrect statements have been made in Parliament
and referred to in the Press in relation to the mortgage
held by The Australian Mutual Provident Society over
the above property which is now known as “Marx
House”.
The facts are:—
1. The A.M.P. Society never did grant any finance or advance
to the present owners of “Marx House”.
2. On 26th October, 1920 the A.M.P. Society lent £ 13,000 to
the then owner, Mr. Alfred Charles Godhard, on the security
of the said property.
3. This loan was renewed with Mr. A. C. Gpdhard on 27th July, ,
1923, 15th November, 1926 and 28th August, 1929 Term
3 years on each occasion. The principal sum at present
secured by the mortgage is £ll,BOO.
4. Moratorium Legislation of the N.S.W. Government was
assented to on 19th December, 1930 and was extended by
subsequent Acts —‘ being still in force at this date.
5. Acting within his rights, Mr. A. C. Godhard sold the property
to Messrs. Clarence Hart Campbell and Ralph Joseph Gott-
licbseh on 19th June 1944 subject to the mortgage. The
Society was not a party to this transaction and has had no
dealings with the new owners, other than to receive interest
payments which have been made when due.
5. The loan by the A.M.P. Society on the property is still under
the terms of the Moratorium Act and so long as interest is
paid regularly and the covenants in the mortgage are performed
the mortgage continues to be protected by that Act which has
taken from the Society any rights it would otherwise have had
to terminate the mortgage.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
87 Pitt Street,
Sydney,
15th July , 1949.
By Order of #the Board.
L. G. OXBY
Secretary.
May be read at
THE SYDNEY BOOK CLUB
Australia’s Leading Circulating Library
WINSTON CHURCHILL: THE
SECOND WORLD WAR. Vol.
11. THEIR FINEST HOUR.
TRIAD AND ERROR. Auto-
biography, by Chaim Weiz-
mann.
COME LISTEN TO MY SONG.
Memoirs, by Roland Booster.
BRIGHTLY FADES THE DON.
By Jack Fingleton.
LOST YEARS. A Backward
Glance at Australian Life and
Manners, by B. H. Collis.
WILD COLONIAL BOYS. By
Frank Clune.
THE BEAL BERNARD SHAW.
By Colbourne.
PETTICOAT SURGEON. By
B. Van Hoosen.
THE KNIFE HEARS AGAIN.
By George Sava.
WHITE HOUSE PAPERS. By
Harry L. Hopkins. Two vols.
REIGN OF QUEEN VICTORIA.
By Hector Bolitho.
MEMOIRS OF CORDBRR
HULL. Two vols.
RIFE OF SIR ARTHUR
CONAN DOYRE. By J. D.
Carr.
HIGH VARREY. By Charmian
Clift and George Johnston.
THE BIG FISHERMAN. By
Lloyd C. Douglas.
Catalogue with Terms Post Free on
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LIMITED
Booksellers and Publishers
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. MA 6511.
The “ Curvilinear ” Concentrating Table
Send for
Bulletin
and Price
df
Simple
and
Reliable
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a
demonstration. Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery,
including stamp batteries, amalgamating tables, magnetic ore
separatars, classifiers, agitators, everlasting valves, water- and oil-
filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories. Electric
motors and Ellison switch gear.
Guthridge Pty. Limited,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas. Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
Public Notice.
MATER MISERICORDIAE
PUBLIC HOSPITALS, BRISBANE
300 Beds.
APPLICATIONS are invited from regis-
tered medical practitioners for the posi-
tion of Honorary Assistant Pathologist
to the above Hospitals. Applications,
stating age, qualifications and experience,
and enclosing copies of three (3) testi-
monials, should be in the hands of the
undersigned before noon, Ist August,
1949. —H. A. HEGERTY, Secretary,
Mater Misericordiae Hospitals, Justice
Chambers, 17a Adelaide St., Brisbane, 8.4.
HUNTER
CIGARETTES
I
I
7
1a
m
R
,KU-
-7
v, "* w
s*
if
c o
'*>
"SSj
tiaveaW*'
... .and again smoke
a favoured blend
2'9 for 20
EVERYWHERE
DISTRIBUTORS MAURICE NEWSTEAD PIY. LTD. 8. CASTUREASH street. STDHIV
You'll travel
lighter with
I GLOBUE
H TRAVEL CASAS
Stronger,
smarter,
lonaer-lastlngl
mi
m
mm sm/mrmim
HHW /
Wmm. y
IXL - AJC
OK -VO
These World Famous Brands are
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:—*
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —■
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
estimated 375,000 tons ore
averaging 14.9 p.c. lead, 3.40 z.
silver and 8.8 p.c. zinc. It is to
the opening-up of the lower
levels, which are the largest and
richest part of the mine, that de-
velopment work is being mainly
directed, and results to date are
highly encouraging.
The main haulage shaft, about
1000 ft. south of the co.’s
northern boundary, is down
3061 ft., or 58ft. below No. 21
level. A new power-house
(12,000 h.p.) is being erected,
but construction work here and
elsewhere is hampered by short-
age of materials, especially steel.
The coal strike has worsened the
position in this and other
respects —the smelters at Pirie
have shut down and concentrates
are accumulating at the mine,
which will aggravate the already-
difficult transport problem. The
working of the mine itself is
not dependent upon coal.
To help meet capital outlay
until 1952, 1,096,474 new ss.
shares were issued at 30s. each
in Dec. last. They will bring
in £1,644,710, of which
£1,370,592 will be share
premiums and the balance
(£274,118) will lift paid capital
to £1,120,592. At December 31
current assets totalled
£1,838,068, and there wat
£729,429 of the new share and
premium money still to come.
With output more or less
assured, costs and metal prices
promise to be the most trouble-
some factors. Costs are high,
and likely to prove stubborn,
though some relief can be ex-
pected in connection with the
lead bonus paid to employees,
which mbves up and down with
the price of the metal. Metal
prices have fallen sharply from
the peak levels reached in
March last:
London — March, ’49. Mid-July, ’49.
Lead, ton .. £8123/—/ £876/10/
Zinc, ton .. £BlO6/ / £B5B/—/
New York—•
Lead, pound 234 cents. 12 cents.
Zinc, pound 17 | cents. 9 cents.
From peak to trough the drop
in London was 38.6 p.c. lead
•and 45.2 p.c. zinc, and in New
York 47.4 p.c. lead and 48.5 p.c.
zinc. Prices have since
strengthened in both centres.
Last week they were 131 cents
a pound for lead and 91 cents
a pound for zinc in New York,
and £SBI a ton for lead and
£S6O Iss. a ton for zinc in Lon-
don. Hopes are that they will
settle around present levels, fol-
lowing revival of U.S. Govern-
ment stockpile buying. Fact is
that the metal industry every-
where is groping in the twi-
light of partly planned and
partly free markets.
All this and other things
caused the price of the co.’s
ss. shares to fluctuate between
475. and 265. lOd. on Sydney’s
’Change during the last six
months. Last week-end the
figure was 355. At that price
the investor who looks for his
money back, plus 6 p.c. p.a.,
counts on divs. averaging 59.5
p.c. over the next 40 years,
and /or other benefits. Allow-
ing for English tax and ex-
change, the immediate return on
a 20 p.c. div.. basis is approxi-
mately 2 p/*
London - conuoucu Selayang
Tin Dredging (paid capital
£43,750 in ss. shares) got its
85,000-c.y.-a-month dredge at
Kuala Lumpur (F.M.S.) going
again in April, 1946. For the
year to Sept. 30, 1948, the
machine handled 8.88 acres
for 216 tons tin concentrates
—2l days were lost fitting
a new bucket-band. After
allowing £6149 for depreciation
and £3150 for taxation, the profit
was £9860, or 22.1 p.c. on capi-
tal. A nominal 25 p.c. div. (5
p.c. previous year) was paid,
worth 13.7 p.c. after deduction
of English income tax of 9s. in
the £. For the first seven months
of the current term 167 tons tin
concentrates have been re-
covered for an estimated profit
of £15,000, and an interim 10
p.c., less English tax, has been
paid. The pontoon needs re-
pairing, but the work isn’t likely
to begin for 12 months owing
to shortage of steel. There is
still 127.75 acres to be dredged,
but yardage and average value
aren’t mentioned. When the
books closed there were current
assets totalling £33,081 to meet
current liabilities of £12,615,
and a rehabilitation loan of
£40,367 had been obtained from
the Malayan Government.
Though the British and U.S.
price of tin has remained steady
at £5569 a ton and 103 cents a
pound respectively, the outlook
is uncertain owing to threatened
overproduction and strength of
U.S. stockpile of the metal, re-
ported equivalent to two years’
peak war-time consumption.
Malayan smelter price for the
metal dropped by 10s, to
£5553 10s. a ton last month.
Allowing for English tax and
exchange, the scrip at 9s. 9d. re-
turns 8.8 p.c. on a 25 p.c. div.
basis.
* * * *
Linden (W.A.) Gold, which
has been on the hunt since 1942,
when it sold its small goldmine,
which didn’t respond to develop-
ment, to Coolgardie Brilliant,
took a 12-months option over
another small show, the
Emerald, on the North Cool-
gardie field in November last.
So far it hasn’t found anything
to warrant equipment of this
property, but still hopes to. At
end Oct., 1948, co. held £lBB6 in
Government securities and cash ;
there was nothing worth men-
tioning coming to outsiders.
* * * ♦
World gold production in
1948 is estimated by Union Corp.
at 24,200,000 fine ounces, or
500,000 fine ounces more than in
1947.


Situation Vacant.
GENERAL MANAGER required for gold
mine in Northern Australia. Must have
good managerial ability and be experi-
enced in fine crushing, cyaniding, assay-
ing. Give details training and experience,
present position, marital state and copies
of references. —FRANK COOPER & CO.,
<22 Collins. Street, Melbourne.
Business, Rolleuy, Etc.
investment Yields
With the sharemarket a little
tired of waiting for “something
to turn up” four years after the
war’s end, and now much more
requiring an immediate and
satisfactory return from invest-
ments, accounts of many indus-
trial concerns for the year to
June 30 will be awaited with
special interest. The past
financial period was one in which
the national income is reputed
to have notched a new and par-
ticularly high record ; but it was
also one in which costs rose
steeply and Socialistic taxes re-
mained at their full war-time
level except for the removal of
what was known as War-time
(Company) Tax.
The coal strike did not affect
the earnings of companies dur-
ing the last financial year, but it
ha? already made a big hole in
some, especially of concerns
domiciled in N. S. Wales, during
the first month of the present
year. Still, if the prevailing dis-
pute ends with a clearing of the
coalfields air for a year or more,
industry could probably pick up
all the leeway already lost. In
some industries the laying-off of
staff has not of itself reduced
output; under threat'of laying-
off output per man per hour has
shown a sharp increase, which
points to what wage-earners
could do if they were really try-
ing in ordinary circumstances.
The accounts of many new
flotations up to June 30, 1949,
will be the .first !hey have pre-
sented as public cos. Already
many subscribers to these new
issues have been disappointed by
the decline in the sharemarket
that first of all followed “rqarket
indigestion” and later got an
extra push by the slump in New
York share prices and the slack-
ening of U.S. business activity
and prices generally. There has
yet to be established the earning-
power of many of these concerns
as public cos. Some will most
likely exceed prospectus esti-
mates of profit-earning. Others
are a more dubious quantity.
All are likely to meet with more
generally difficult trading condi-
tions during the ensuing 12
months.
The sharemarket in its present
more-selective mood has taken
most of these factors into
account. Many new issues have
fallen to below their issue price.
And it will be found that a
number of stocks, both old and
new, have dropped below a fair
thing when this year’s accounts
come to the public notice. This
is likely to be especially so in
cases where old-established con-
cerns made a new issue that of
itself depressed the market.
Investors at the present time,
in spite of Mr, Chifley’s policy
of fixed interest rates for Com-,
monwealth Government securi-
ties, and the premiums his
Treasury has insisted be charged
on new issues by public com-
panies, are looking for higher
yields from most ordinary
shares. Hopes of higher post-
war dividends not having been
realised in most cases—because
of price-control, lack of labor
and raw materials, rising costs
and high taxation —shareholders
are appraising investments more
on the basis of immediate yields
than was the case 12 months ago.
Eventually, of course, the more
speculative and optimistic in-
vestor hopes to get a higher-than-
average yield even if he accepts
a 2 p.c. return to begin with—or
else he hopes to sell quickly to
an even-more-hopeful investor
at a higher price. Very few
yields of under 3 p.c. are being
accepted now.
Investors for income—income
is the ultimate incentive to all
investment—have a much more
attractive field to operate in than
has been available for several
years. Last week Tooth shares
offered a yield of 4 p.c., against
3.7 p.c, in January, Bradford
Cotton 4.6 p.c. against 4 p.c.,
B.H.P. 4 p.c. against 2.8 p.c.,
British Tobacco 3.8 p.c. against
3.5 p.cr., C.S.R, 3 p.c. against 2.9
p.c., A.C.I. 3.5 p.c. against 2.9
p.c., Yarra Falls 5.7 p.c, against
5.2 p.c., and Felt and Textiles
5.9 p.c. against 4.6 p.c.
Crisis and Cripps
From London: British Press
comment on Cripps’. speech
(House of Commons, July 6,
1949):
Daily Express : A policy of stand-
still does not meet the situation.
What is required is a stand-off. That
is to say, a resolution to do without
dollar imports What the situation
demands is the bold measure of let-
ting the pound go free, so that it
can find its true level and win a con-
fidence that nothing can shake.
Daily Mail: Two things only will
save us from disaster. They are
strict economy and hard work. The
Chancellor appeals for neither. In-
deed, he disowns both. Therefore we
have been strangled by Socialism for
fou* years. That is why we are chok-
ing now The policy of this Gov-
ernment begins to resemble that of
Mr. Micawber. They are waiting for
something to turn up. Let them
beware lest America is also waiting
for someone to turn down.
Daily Worker: The Labor Gov-
ernment is no more responsible for
the U.S. slump than it is for the
drought. It, is, however, responsible
for the defenceless position of British
economy with regard to the slump.
Only a change in policy on the
lines , indicated by the Communist
party will rally the British people to
fight against the crisis and for
national independence and recovery.
Evening Standard: Now Britain
is back where she was before, hoping
for fresh support from America. If
Britain had endured the hardships of
the difficult post-war period without
external aid we should now be breast-
ing the lull.
Financial Times: After the Chan-
cellor’s statement yesterday, there
can no longer be any doubt of the
gravity of the immediate dollar
crisis In these circumstances one*
would have expected from the Gov-
ernment recognition that a state of
national crisis existed —not, as Mr.
Gaitskell suggested to the miners,
merely a crisis for the Government.
We are presented with a policy
which will have little immediate
effect, and is so technical that it is
doubtful if any layman will under-
stand it The Government is deter-
mined to* preserve the ark of Social-
ism, come what may It is a crisis
for the country. And it would be
well for the country if it produced a
crisis for the Government.
Manchester Guardian : The Cham
cellor would have done better to stick
to the bare facts about the gold losses
and a promise that policies will be
settled as soon as possible. That has
to be very soon.
New Statesman; It is a brave and
straightforward rejection of the
American argument that world re-
covery must be sought through cur-
rency manipulations designed to re-
duce real wages in debtor countries.
Sir Stafford sees clearly the means he
must adopt for immediate defence in
a situation of fundamental economic
disequilibrium aggravated by the U.S.
recession. Does he see with equal
clarity the need for positive steps
which must be taken to compensate
in other directions for the inevitable
curtailment of trade with a sub-
continent which insists on exporting
more than it imports, and whose
capitalists will invest their surplus
abroad only on conditions politically
insufferable to free peoples?
Observer: We have some radical
adjustments to make at home, both
to ease our position while the crisis
lasts and to lend weight to our argu-
ments in the international talks on
its solution... .What we now need is
not production at any cost but pro-
duction at an economic cost; not
austerity but incentives; not controls
but competition; not “fair shares for
all” but rewards for the efficient and
penalties for the indolent.
Spectator: There is no key to the
understanding of our immediate
troubles except through a restatement
of fundamentals. The industries of
Great Britain are producing too little
at too high a cost. In other words,
we are not working hard enough or
intelligently enough The British
people have been told before that
they must reduce purchases from the
dollar area—which means lower con-
sumption—and increased sales to the
dollar area —which means harder
work. But this time they must suit
the action to the word. Both Govern-
ment and Parliamentary Opposition
recognise this need. The trouble is
that the direct connection between
work done and benefits received has
been lost in a welter of State services,
so that the ordinary worker can no
longer perceive any relationship be-
tween what he earns and what he
gets. Hence the persistent blind de-
mand for wage-increases which the
country simply cannot afford.
Times: The Chancellor’s statement
did not strike with sufficient precision
at the roots of the trouble at home.
He frankly recognised that this
country must become capable of com-
peting in world markets without ad-
ventitious or diplomatic aids —which
is true whatever system of world
economy may be pursued—but he did
not say bluntly enough about what
this must mean in practical terms
Both inflation and massive Govern-
ment spending have stood in the way
of clear sight and close reckoning....
No increase in American assistance
or revision of its terms, no new
Chinese Wall against dollar imports,
no forced devaluation of sterling,
none of these by itself can even
begin to be the cure unless the doc-
tors —and patients—in the Cabinet, in
industry and in the trade-unions con-
sent to apply the drastic remedies
which the disorders demand.
Tribune: The Tories are now
advancing into battle with the cry
that the “welfare” State has raised
the prices of our exports (a proposi-
tion not founded on economic facts)
and must be abolished... .By this
means the Tories hope to divert atten-
tion from the real culprit. The basic
cause of our high prices is the failure
of private enterprise to introduce
modern production methods which
can raise production by 50 per cent,
or more (as they already have done
in some factories) without the need
for the introduction of a single new
machine.
Economist: With his eye on
foreign reaction he (the Chancellor)
tried to play down the gravity of the
tale he had to tell If there is one
thing that is certain in a medley of
uncertainties it is that the economic
policy pursued hitherto has reached
full-stop. At home as well as abroad,
public opinion has come to the belief
that the present policies of the British
Government will not work. Whether
they are socially desirable or not is,
therefore, unfortunately beside the
point. The crisis will go on until
something that will work is put in
their place.
“Hissing Gas”
“Lemon”: As predicted in B.
1/6/’49, Australasian Petroleum
has succeeded, after consider-
“ Gently , dear, gently !”
able delay, in shutting off the
“hissing gas” which hardened
values of Oil Search shares but
threatened to cause the loss of
the borehole. The shut-off was
accomplished by landing casing
at 1155 ft. and cementing, and
the ticklish job can be con-
sidered as a triumph for
specialist experience and good
equipment over the difficult for-
mation conditions encountered
in Papua.
The co., however, is taking no
chances, and announces that it
will shortly have on site special
pressure-drilling equipment and
additional chemicals for the
treatment of the mud flush. It
is fortunate that its interna-
tional affiliations enable these
to be obtainable at short notice.
In addition, the co. has sus-
pended drilling at Hohoro, pre-
sumably to await the arrival of
the pressure-drilling material.
In spite of the technically
comforting and modest report
on the June operations Oil
Search shares weakened, which
is not surprising, perhaps, after
the public’s reaction to the
“hissing-gas” episode.
If oil exists in Papua beneath
the treacherous gas-bearing and
heaving shales, it is evident that
the co. is determined to reach
it, but the small man should
take warning of the cost, risks
and disappointments associated
with the oil game in that area.
Big Business in U.S.A.
The National City Bank of
New York makes a most inter-
esting analysis: •
The population of the United States
in 1900 was only 76 million, and
business was active following the de-
pression of the 1890’s and the Spanish-
American war. American industry
was in a vigorous youthful stage, but
fts ownership was, in contrast with
today, so closely held that only rela-
tively few corporations published re-
ports.
In the first edition, dated 1900, of
Moody’s Manual, there were balance-
sheets of only 74 manufacturing com-
panies reporting assets of more than
$1 million each. Of this number 38,
or more than half, were cotton mills,
mostly located in Massachusetts and
established in some cases as far back
as the 1820’s. The largest-size com-
panies were the iron-and-steel manu-
facturers, several of which in this and
other lines represented consolidations
made in the late 1890’s. Many of
the most" important industrial con-
solidations, however, were still to
come in the early 1900’s. -
The 25 largest manufacturing com-
panies for which statements were pub-
lished in the manual were:
1900.
(In millions of dollars.)
Federal Steel Co. .. .. .. $l5O
U.S. Leather Co 137
Am, Steel and W. Co. of N.J. 106
Amer. Sugar Ref. Co 102
Continental Tobacco Co. .. 100
National Tube Co. .. .. 94
American Tobacco Co 77
Am. Smelt, and Ref. Co. .. 74
National Steel Co 73
Amer. Car and Fdy. Co. .. 69
American Woollen Co 62
National Biscuit Co 58
Internat. Paper Co 56
Republic Iron and Steel C 0... 51
Amer. Tin Plate Co. .. .. 51
Glucose Sugar Ref. Co. .. 42
Amer. Writ. Paper Co. . 41
Amer. Steel Hoop Co. . . 38
Am. Hide and Leather Co. . . 36
Swift and Co 34
Ten. C„ I. and R.R, Co. .. 34
National Lead Co 31
General Electric Co 30
Union Bag and Paper Co. .. 28
Rubber Gds. Mfg. Co. .. 27
Total $1,601
These are not necessarily the largest
in existence at that time, but merely
the largest among those publishing
balance-sheets.
Between 1900 and 1910 the records
reflect a substantial growth of in-
dustry, a great increase in availability
of reports, and numerous important
consolidations. The list of 25 largest
companies in 1910 is headed by
United States Steel, organised in 1901
by a merger including several com-
panies that were in the previous list.
Many other companies were forging
ahead in the automobile, petroleum,
rubber, and other newer industries,
but had not yet attained large size
or begun the publication of financial
statements.
The industrial growth of the
country during the ten years 1910-20,
by which time the population had
passed 100 million, was stimulated by
the demands of World War I, fol-
lowed by the rapid development of
the automobile and petroleum indus-
tries. The growth in dollar assets
reflected also the war-time inflation
of prices. Among the companies
entering the list were Ford Motor,
organised in 1903, and General
Motors, organised in 1908, as well
as seven petroleum companies, some
of which represented former sub-
sidiaries of the Standard Oil Com-
pany of New Jersey.
During the active and prosperous
decades of the 1920’s there was sub-
stantial growth in the size and output
of the manufacturing industries, in-
cluding not only the notable expan-
sion of automobiles and petroleum,
but also the rapid development of
newer lines such as chemicals, air-
craft and radio.
The long-term growth of American
industry was checked during the de-
pression years of the 1930’5.
During the nine years from 1940
to 1949 there were two periods of
great industrial expansion: first, in
producing the weapons and materials
for winning World War 11, and later
in meeting the accumulated post-war
demands for all types of consumers’
and capital goods. Corporate assets
were increased by heavy expenditures
on new plant and equipment, and by
an expansion in working capital for
carrying larger inventories and re-
ceivables, reflecting in part the war-
time and post-war inflation in prices
and costs. This increase in assets was
financed to a major extent by rein-
vested earnings, and to a minor extent
by borrowings and by sales of new
stock.
There were at the beginning of this
year 141 manufacturing corporations
reporting assets of more than $lOO
million each.
Here are the 25 largest manufac-
turing companies in 1949:
(In millions of dollars.)
Standard Oil Co. (NJ.).. .. $3,526
General Motors Corp 2,958
U.S. Steel Corp 2,535
E.I. du Pont de N. and C 0... 1,585
Stand. Oil Co. (Ind.) .. .. 1,500
Socony-Vac. Oil Co 1,443
Texas Company 1,277
Gulf Oil Corp. 1,191
General Electric Co 1,177
Stand. Oil Co. of Calif. .. 1,075
Bethlehem Steel Corp 1,029
Ford Motor Co. (1948) .. 1,026
Cities Service Co 992
Western Electric Co. .. .. 786
Un. Carbide and Car. Corp... 723
Sinclair Oil Corp 710
Westinghouse Elec. Corp. .. 694
American Tobacco Co 687
Inter. Harvester Co 672
Anaconda Cop. Min. Co. .. 660
Shell Union Oil Corp 641
Allied Chem. and Dye Corp. 597
Phillips Petroleum Co 579
Kennecott Cop. Corp 575
Chrysler Corporation .. .. 541
Total $29,179
The 24 largest, excluding Ford
Motor Company, which is a family
corporation, are owned by approxi-
mately 2,751,000 shareholders, about
half of whmn are women. The num-
ber of employees last year totalled
approximately 2,090,000 and received
an average compensation of $3600.
The total assets represented an
average investment of $14,000 per
employee.
The business structure of the
United States is made up some
500,000 corporations and 3,400,000
individual proprietorships, partner-
ships, etc., excluding farming.
During the growth of American in-
dustry since 1900, the number of
large corporations has increased
manyfold. Whereas a “billion-dollar
corporation” was unique in this or
any other country when the U.S. Steel
Corporation was organised in 1901,
there are now 12 manufacturing cor-
porations in that size-class. In addi-
tion, there are six “billion-dollar”
railroads, six public-utility systems, 20
banks and 12 insurance companies,
making a grand total of 56.
If size be measured by volume of
business rather than assets, there are
215 American manufacturing corpora-
tions whose sales last year exceeded
$lOO million each.
Such vast business activity is made
■possible by the opportunity which the
American system has given to enor-
mously increase production and mass
purchasing-power by the investment
of savings, in power plants, railroads,
factories and labor-saving equipment
of all kinds.
Exchange and New Zealand
Disappointment was keen in
Maoriland when Australia’s
P.M. Chifley and a majority of
the Federal Cabinet veered to-
wards devaluation against the
dollar when the sterling-dollar
deadlock came to a head. Be-
fore that Maorilanders were
counting on Australia holding its
dollar rate if sterling slipped, and
M.L. investors, with millions
sunk in Australian shares, felt that
recovery in divs, from the 20 p.c.
cut brought about by revalua-
tion of their pound nearly a year
ago was just round the corner.
New Zealand has been sensi-
tive about Australia’s critical
appraisal of its shock-tactics on
the exchange front —on the score
that the move was deflationary—
and lost trans-Tasman trade in
fish, crockery, canned-tomato
products, processed cheese and
other lines has made it long for
nothing so much as redress of
the balance. No Maorilanders
think their pound is worth 20
p.c. more than Australia’s, and
some doubt whether it would be
worth as much in a showdown.
So the currency set-up is unreal
and costly.
The Pharmaceutical Benefits
Act, otherwise the “Free Medi-
cine Act,” came into operation
on Monday. The cost of its
“benefits” will be a charge
against the National Welfare
Fund, to which £llO million,
an increase of £22 million, was
transferred last year. (This
revenue was derived from
social-services tax and payroll
tax.) In 1948-49 £BO.B million
was spent out of the National
Welfare Fund (up £12.2 million),
chiefly in pensions (£41.7 mil-
lion), child endoVment (£24.3
million) and hospital benefits
(£6 million). An income surplus
of £29.3 million (up £9.9 mil-
lion) was added to the balance
remaining in the fund, which
stood at £99.9 million on June
30. The £29.3 million was really
part of Mr. Chifley’s huge con-
cealed Budget surplus for last
year; but “free-medicine” may
swallow it all this year.


=
m
m.
'p
£
<3
1
£
A
s
S'
m
v
you build
or buy a home
consult The •
MIX
The M.L.C. can offer you finance on most
reasonable terms. By means of Life Assurance
your debt is covered should you die during
the term of the loan. Full information is
freely available from any M.L.C. Office or
Representative.
MLC
The MUTUAL LIFE and ClTlZENS’Assurance Co. Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Martin Place and Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
MELBOURNE:
Collins and Elizabeth
Streets.
BRISBANE:
Commercial House,
Queen and Creek Streets.
ADELAIDE:
Savings Bank Building,
JOl King William Street
PERTH:
(1 79a St. George’s
Terrace,
HOBART:
Bank of Australasia
Chambers, Elizabeth and
Collins Streets.
WELLINGTON (N.Z.)s
M.L.C. Building, LamUtol
Quay.


TO NEW ZEALAND
Increased T. E. A. L schedules now
provide 2,000 trans-Tasman air
passages every month. Return fare only
£63 (single £35.) You*re there in a
few comfortable hours, saving
precious days for business
or holidays.
TEAL
n
TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED
In association with Q.E.A., 8.0.A.C. and B.C.P.A.
RESERVATIONS: .QANTAS AND LEADING TRAVEL AGENTS
ARTS
Circular Charts for ail types
of Recording instruments
tor any class ot Machinery
or Equipment
METER CHARTS • Specialty
JACMjOW O'SIJLLI VAN %
OUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
MEMORISE
WITH EASE :
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes.
Grip Lodge Ritual.
Send stamp for booklet.
Rev. W. Rowlands
12 Younger Grove,
Caulfield, S.E. 8, Vic.
.1
• i
:; 1
Specify
“UNBRAKO”
High Tensile SOCKET SCREWS
ersons
Ltd.
51-65 BATHURST STREET,
260 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY.
546-566 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
115-130 Waymouth Street, ADELAIDE.
532 Murray Street, PERTH.
Specify "Unbrako"
screws they will al-
ways more than meet
your most severe and
exacting requirements.
Hove you seen the
special "Unbrako"
catalogue ? It's yours
on request, free and
post free.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
U,S. LABOR LAW.
American labor leader Lewis
having called a strike when
amendment of the Taft-Hartley
law controlling labor was before
Congress, Taft was noticed by
various correspondents to break
into a broad grin. Whatever
amending there might be, the
law would not now be repealed
holus bolus, as Mr. Truman had
promised in his electioneering.
That was, in fact, by far the
most insistently-made promise
of Mr. Truman’s electioneering.
In the test it fared as badly as
the Lewis strike foredoomed and
as the Taft grin heralded.
Taft submitted two amend-
ments to the Truman Adminis-
tration’s repeal bill. As sum-
marised in N, Y. “Times,” the
first amendment was on the sec-
tion of the repeal bill dealing
with national-emergency strikes.
It gave the President the choice
of using either injunctions, as in
the Taft-Hartley Law, or plant
seizure to halt such strikes.
(The Administration bill in-
cluded neither method.) The
second Taft amendment struck
out all the rest of the Adminis-
tration bill except the enacting
clause and substituted for it an
“improved” Taft-Hartley Law.
In the showdown the crucial
vote was on an Administration
amendment proposing to strike
the injunction alternative from
the Taft national-emergency
■ ■■■ - ' * -
plan, leaving only seizure. The
Democratic leadership put on
the heaviest pressure possible—
it even rushed one pro-labor
Senator home from Europe by
plane. The vote was 44 for the
Administration’s amendment, 46
against.
The Senate went on to pass
the Taft injunction - seizure
amendment as a whole by 50 to
40. Two days later it accepted
the other Taft omnibus amend-
ment 49 to 45. Even before the
final vote labor and Administra-
tion forces had given up dn
Taft-Hartley repeal for 1949.
What it all means is that the
decision has been made in the
U.S. —as it no doubt will have
to be in democracies which
suffer national disruption at the
hands of Communist-led unions
-—that there must be controls
over labor “rights” to stage
strikes damaging to the nation.
Chicago “Tribune” made some
particularly interesting com-
ments on the Lewis strike in
that regard:—
“The strike proves that the
Taft law doesn’t go far enough.
The plain fact is that Mr. Lewis
has more power over the Ameri-
can people and the Ameri-
can economy than can-safely be
entrusted to any man. The law
forbids businessmen to get to-
gether in a scheme to raise prices
even by a few cents or reduce
output by a few tons. The law
does not interfere with the
union’s almost complete mon-
opoly of coalmine labor or with
the way the union has used its
national monopoly not to re-
strict production a little but to
stop it altogether, thus depriving
homes and factories of heat and
power.
“There is a remedy for this
situation which Congress ha&
been reluctant to consider but
which it will have to consider
one of these days: That is, to
extend the operations of the
anti-trust laws to the union,
forcing it to dissolve into autono-
mous, regional unions, and for-
bidding them to’ act together.
There are many reasons why
unions have been exempted
from the anti-trust laws; the
more this country sees of Mr,
Lewis’s monopoly the less valid
those reasons appear to be.
“This within his union
fancies he has the right to dic-
tate to the nation as well. If
he thinks the Taft law is tough,
he won’t have any words to de-
scribe the kind of law that Con-
gress will pass, if it is needed to
protect the nation from his
rapacity/’
A Fed-up Czech.
A complete comment on
what Czechs themselves think
of the Communist enslavement
of their country is the fact that
seven members of the Czecho-
slovak mission in Berlin have
taken the opportunity to escape
which that job offered.
The seventh of them, Dr.
Bedrich Bruegel, acting head of
the mission, published his letter
to the Deputy Foreign Minister
in Prague explaining why he
had fled with the rest:
“The chief reason I can no
longer continue in the service of
the so-called popular democratic
Republic of Czechoslovakia is
this: when I was last in Czecho-
slovakia old friends and fellow-
workers came to me in despair
with proof that people are con-
stantly being arrested in the
Bohemian provinces without
written warrant and kept im-
prisoned without a hearing and
without justification. Further
evidence has been shown to me
that the Czech Security Corps
inflict torture and bodily in-
juries on afl citizens who fall
into its clutches. There is no
way of reconciling this with any
ideological outlook.”
Light on a Mystery.
Noting that the present Bri-
tish (and British Commonwealth)
economic crisis has for many
an air of inscrutable mystery,
and that it is of the greatest
importance that “the substantial
causes of the latest reverse and
the fundamental difficulties of
which it is only a token” should
be thoroughly understood, Lon-
don “Times,” in a strikingly fair
and able leading article, throws
a clear light on that mystery.
In particular, the article, by
fairly setting forth the actual
“dollar” background—America’s
vast and incomparably efficient
production as the prime factor—
disposes of the much fostered
and widely accepted fallacy of
an American “dollar plot.”
The trading position, to begin
with, is simply that the net
deficit of the sterling area in the
second quarter of this year was
£157 million. It was £7sm.
higher than in the first quarter
and £44m. higher than was fore-
cast in the Economic Survey. It
was only partially covered by
assistance from Marshall aid,
with the result that the gold and
dollar reserve fell from £47lm.
to £4o6m.
This grave setback in the
hoped-for advance towards eco-
nomic independence had com-
pelled the British Government to
look to a further revision of
import programmes in order to
reduce dollar purchases. But, as
Sir Stafford Cripps admitted, it
is only too evident now from
bitter experience that first-aid
measures of this restrictive sort
offer no remedy. At the best
they can only buy time for the
necessary adjustments in eco-
nomic policy required to stem
the tide.
It was to concert those adjust-
ments in policy that the Com-
monwealth i Finance Ministers
were invited to the London dis-
cussions.
Emphasising that “only under-
standing can lead to the respon-
sible co-operation of all citizens
which is called for” if disaster
is to be avoided, the “Times”
leader went on to explain that
in the last few months the fall-
ing-away of business—and of
prices—iff the United States,
though it has in no way reached
the proportions yet of a real de-
pression, has been a principal
factor in hastening on the crisis
in British affairs. The largest
single source of difficulty has
been the fall in the prices of
Commonwealth and colonial
products bought by the United
States, above all, rubber, tin,
cocoa, diamonds and wool; the
value of these sales in the second
quarter of the year was half the
figure for the first quarter.
There was also a significant
fall in Britain’s direct exports
to the United States, and it is
likely to go on, though so far
sales to Canada have been doing
better.' Outside the dollar area
there was a fall in British exports
to Belgium and Switzerland,
both hard-currency countries
who preferred, not unnaturally,
to buy in dollar countries where
prices were lower. As a result,
under the existing payments
agreements with both these
countries there was a loss of
gold. The gold loan agreement
with South Africa had resulted
in an unexpected dollar drain,
owing to the restrictions imposed
in recent months by South
Africa on imports. At the same
time, in accordance with deci-
sions made earlier, when hopes
ran higher than these trends
had warranted, Britain’s own im-
ports from the dollar countries
had actually been larger than in
the previous quarter. The gap
had grown alarmingly.
“An underlying difficulty,, re-
flected yet again in these fresh
difficulties, is that Britain and,
in varying degrees, a number of
other European countries have
become, as a result of the war
and subsequent developments,
very much more dependent upon
imports from the dollar area;
and they cannot pay for the im-
ports of food, raw materials and


When parties
are parties
we always have
Schweppes
machinery which they desper-
ately need because they are not
selling enough goods in the
'dollar countries.
“Partly this is because of pro-
tective policies. (Government
encouragement of synthetic rub-
ber in the . United States has
limited the outlet for Malayan
rubber; the encouragement of
tin-smelting in Texas has less-
ened the earnings of tin-smelters
in Malaya.) But very largely it
has lately been because the
goods offered, manufactured
goods in particular, are too dear
or not of the right design. To
that extent failure to sell either
in dollar countries or, in com-
petition with cheaper dollar
goods, in countries such as Bel-
gium and Switzerland reflects a
failure in the cost and the effi-
ciency of British production.”
As a result, Britain “must
either become less dependent on
dollar imports or else must make
its goods more acceptable in
dollar and other foreign markets.
These simple principles were
clearly seen before the war
ended, and they have since been
the basis of much of British
economic policy. But some parts
of that policy have had a pre-
cisely opposite or contradictory
effect. The search for non-dollar
sources of rqw materials and
foodstuffs, for instance, has led
to purchases of costly products.
Restrictive and temporary
bilateral agreements with other
countries short of dollars have
allowed Britain to sell exports
in many markets above dollar
prices and so removed the pres-
sure to bring Costs down.
“The implications of this
gradual inflation of prices and
costs were concealed by the
existence of a sellers' market and
by the gratifying increase in sales
to the non-dollar countries. Now
the sellers’ market has gone. The
trend is reversed, and there is a
buyers’ market. Prices are fall-
ing in the United States, and as
the tide ebbs the British economy
with all its protuberances of
swollen costs and inflated de-
mands is being left starkly ex-
posed.”
As Sir Stafford Cripps had in-
sisted —not, in the “Times” view,
as emphatically as the case
merits —there is now a “para-
mount need for British industries
to become genuinely competitive
in world markets,” and, at the
same time, “increases of personal
incomes are out of the question.”
The need now, the “Times” it-
self emphasises, “is to recognise
without any disguise the efforts
and sacrifices which will have to
be made” if Britain is to survive
and prosper in open competi-
tion. The whole nation, it insists,
has to understand that real wages
at the present level, steady work
for all, or the social programme,
will not be supportable unless
earned afresh by harder work,
greater skill, restraint, patience
and co-operation.
“It is tempting,” the “Times”
article adds, “to see in devalua-
tion an easy way out of the diffi-
culties. By reducing prices of
British products in terms of
dollars it would, for a time, help
exports —where the prices and
not the design now deter
buyers; but it would raise the
costs of dollar raw materials and
foodstuffs, and if it was the pre-
lude to further wage increases as
the cost of living rose, its advan-
tages would be quickly whittled
down. Such advantages as it
might have would be worn away
by a further fall in American
prices. Devaluation might be
made inevitable by circum-
stances, but the gains would be
small and short-lived. The need
for radical adjustments would
become greater, not less, and
without those adjustments de-
valuation would be no more than
another step on the downward
road.
“Neither devaluation nor the
curtailment of dollar imports
commanded by the growing
emergency offers any sort of
long-term remedy. The time has
come to face the real challenge.
When commercial policy was dis-
cussed during the war and in the
early days of peace, the way to-
wards a multilateral form of
trade with few restraints and
convertible currencies was
viewed with optimism. Now that
true competition is returning to
the markets of the world the dif-
ficulties loom up. It must now
be asked whether the indus-
trialised countries of Europe can,
as Professor Robertson put it the
other day, earn from oversea the
requisite fodder alike for their
own fastidious stomachs and for
their insatiable machines. How
far is multilateral trade—the
— N. Y. “Herald Tribune."
"YOU DOWN THERE—WE’VE NO TIME FOR
THAT NOW.!”
ideal goal—a practicable policy
in twentieth - century circum-
stances with the great continent
of the United States at the centre
of the world economy? Is there
any alternative apart from the
protective and defensive bilateral
arrangements which have so
often proved both expensive and
inefficient?”
Whatever the future order and
dispensation of the world’s trans-
actions, the “Times” concluded,
the task now “is to pursue
economic fitness and industrial
efficiency by every means.”
Marshall-aid Results.
What Marshall-Plan aid has
failed to do —as suggested by
the current troubles of Britain
and others —should not be con-
fused with what it actually has
done.
In all, states “U.S. News and
World Report,” U.S. loans and
grants to the Marshall-Plan
countries total $19,049,000,000,
what-time only $1,560,000,000
has gone to Russia and the
other countries of Eastern
Europe, and this mostly through
U.N.R.R.A. immediately after
the war; for the last two years
U.S. funds for Europe have
been restricted entirely to the
West.
Britain has had the great-
est amo u n t —m ore than
56,000,000,000 —as a result of
which, for all its current finan-
cial troubles, it has made giant
strides forward, such as it cer-
tainly could not have made
without that U.S. aid. “Most
important,” with Russian ag-
gression in mind, “is the fact
that U.S. dollar-aid has enabled
Britain to keep her armed forces
in the field and thus maintain
her position as a major world
Power”: .
“Western Germany, aided by
the U.S. with more than
$2,534,000,000, has made an
especially striking comeback.
By the end of 1948, industrial
production in the U.S.-British
zone was 64 per cent higher
than a year earlier, and within
22 per cent of the 1936 rate.
Exports in 1948 were two and
a half times as great as in the
year before. Food rations were
increased. Workers’ morale
was improved. The betterment
of conditions has brought in-
creased support from the
German people for the policies
of U.S. The influence of
Russia and the German Com-
munists has gone down.
“France, benefiting from
$4,337,000,000 of U.S. money,
has increased her own pro-
iduction and slowed down her
inflation. Her industrial out-
put is well above the 1938 level,
while her agricultural output is
almost as great as in the pre-war
years. French foreign policies
have swung more and more
closely into line with those of
the United States. Commun-
ists in France have lost ground,
and whatever hopes the Russian
leaders held that France would
join the Russian bloc have been
blasted.
“Other Marshall-Plan coun-
tries are gradually getting into
an easier position. Italy, with
more than $1,900,000,000 from
the U.S., has brought her infla-
tion under control, though pro-
duction is lagging and unemploy-
ment is high. There Commun-
ism is still a threat. The
Netherlands is'rehabilitating her
industrial plant with the aid of
$1,253,000,000 of U.S. money.
Belgium, Norway, Denmark,
Greece and Turkey, all have
been helped.”
Hence, “the general picture
Stalin sees as he surveys Western
Europe is one of renewed optim-
ism, greatly increased activity,
and higher living standards.
Little of this would have been
possible without the flow of
U.S. dollars and the goods that
those dollars buy.”
Hence also Stalin’s seeming
“to have adopted a new strategy
—less aggressive, more concili-
atory, and calculated to put
Russia and her satellites in posi-
tion to share in the good things
distributed.”
The Big Air-race.
Due to be flown a day or two
hence, the fastest race ever held
in any country.
That is, the race for the
Society of British Aircraft Con-
structors’ challenge cup; to be
decided over four laps totalling
80 miles. It is open to jet air-
craft of any country, and the
entries (as reported in London
“Times”) include six of the
fastest of British aircraft, all to
be flown by outstanding test
pilots;
“They are the Hawker P. 1052,
a swept-back wing fighter, to be
piloted by Squadron-Leader T. S
Wade, Hawker Aircraft’s duel
test pilot; the Hawker P.104C
(pilot Mr. Neville Duke); the
Vickers - Armstrong’s Super-
marine 510, a swept-back winged
development of the Attacker
(pilot Mr. M. J. Lithgow) ; a De
Havilland Vampire 111 fighter
(Group-Captain John Cunning-
ham, De Havilland’s chief test
pilot); a Gloster Meteor VII
(Mr. R. Dryland); and a De
Havilland 108, an experimental
swept-wing aircraft (Mr. John
Derry). A trophy in memory ol
Mr. Geoffrey de Havilland, who
was killed in a flying accident in
1946, will be awarded to the
pilot recording the fastest lap
time.”
The “Times” describes the
meeting: “The national air-
races, to be held by the Royal
Aero Club in the Birmingham
area between July 30 and August
1, will be the most important
civil flying event in this country
since Britain won the Schneider
Trophy outright in 1931.”
Among pilots listed for other
of the events is one familiar-
enough name, Mr. James Mol-
lison.
Catholic Spain.
Referring in the U.S. Senate
to America having “abstained”
from voting on Spain in U.N.0.,
Senator Brewster commented:
“I can conceive of no more
pitiful spectacle than that of the
United States, which we thought
was to lead the world back to
peace and security, standing
silent while one of the most
momentous issues was being de-
cided —having no mind of its
own, completely frustrated by
the situation,
“I. think it is time we ex-
amined some of the reasons for
that frustration, which are
known to every member of the
Senate, however undesirable it
may seem that they should be
discussed. The subtle word is
constantly passed that the
alternative to Communism is
Catholicism.
“We know that word is
uttered constantly in the lob-
bies, although Senators do not
care to bring it out upon the
floor. We are even told that
some very distinguished mem-
bers of the American delegation
are those who are most earnest
in their opposition to the recog-
nition of Spain because, for-
sooth, Spain is a Catholic coun-
try. It is high time that the
American people decided to tear
the mask from this situation.”
Dragnet Digest.
Russia’s Swollen Population.— U.S.
atom-expert Dr. Arthur H. Compton,
warning that “Never have we faced
more serious dangers. The threats
are military, economic, social and,
above all, spiritual”: “Demographers
tell us that Russia’s population is
increasing ‘explosively,’ while their
natural resources are sharply limited.
There is thus arising on a continental
scale a human danger similar to that
which was recently presented on a
much smaller scale by the island
empire of Japan.”
* * * *
Channel Tunnel—Fresh discussion
having broken out on the old issue
of an English Channel tunnel, London
“Times” has pointed to an “added
risk,” the fifth-columnists; in other
words, Communist traitors. Another
consideration is probable cost. When
the tunnel was last discussed cost
was put at about £30,000,000. Now
it is claimed —as the “Times” says,
“perhaps optimistically” —that cost
would be about £100,000,000.
♦*, * *
Reluctant Unde Sam. —Pointing out
that Americans have come to their
present position of world leadership
within about a decade, N. Y. “Times
editorially comments: “Over the long
past nations have come to world
power because of the ambitions of
rulers, because of expansive pressures
at home or, as used to be said of
the British, in a fit of absent-minded-
ness. We are the first nation m all
history to have thrust upon us a
power we did not plan for and did
not desire.”
* * * •
West Leading on Points.—- How
the “cold war” is going, as
assessed by “U.S. News and World
Report”: “The Marshall offensive,
still rolling, is pushing Russia back,
keeping her on the defensive. Soviet
expansion in Europe has been stopped
cold. Communists have taken a
licking throughout Western Europe;
have lost their big chance to seize
power there. Germany, all of it, is
facing West rather than East. The
Marshall Plan is working, even it
not perfectly. And a rearmed, united
West is the prospect. The Molotov
counter-offensive, on the other hand,
is a flop. The Molotov Plan for
economic recovery of East Europe is
not delivering the goods. Soviet
might no longer looks so impressive
to Europeans.”
* * * ♦
The Churchill Touch.— Looking
forward with relish to next year’s
elections in Britain; “We shall be
voting not only for freedom from
stifling and paralysing Socialism, but
also for bare survival. Another
Socialist Parliament would seal our
fate in world history and close by
our own actions, amid self-inflicted
gloom and squalor, the marvellous
story of Britain’s greatness.”
* * * *
Sapped Britain— British publisher
and author Cecil Palmer, lecturing in
the U.S.: “It all boils down to this:
Is the State made for man, or is man
made for the State? That is the
issue. It is probably true that Britain’s
economic instability is sapping its will
to survive. A planned economy which
inevitably produces scarcity,
uniformity and regimentation is not
calculated to stimulate a people to
make a big effort for survival. We
are drinking the poison of Commun-
ism out of the cup of Socialism.”
* * * *
Council of Europe. —While 'admit-
ting that in terms of actual power
the embryo Council of Europe “is
little more than a magnificent ges-
ture,” Washington “Post” considers
that, with the brave spirit backing it,
“this European entity may yet fulfil
the dreams of far-sighted Europeans
throughout the ages. There are to
be two bodies: one a committee of
Ministers, the other a consultative
assembly. The committee members
will be responsible only to the
sovereign and independent Govern-
ments which appointed them. The
assembly will be a debating society
with powers only to discuss and to
recommend. By no stretch of the
imagination can the two bodies _ be
regarded as a Government of a United
States of Europe or as a Government
of any kind. Yet the mere existence
of this European organisation should
be a constant reminder of European
interests, attitudes and ideals which
transcend the limits of national fron-
tiers.”


iixibt
FIRST IN 1888...
FIRST TO-DAY!
NO OTHER BATTERY
CAN MATCH EXLDE'S
61 YEARS' EXPERIENCE
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD* 44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
~T
—J
XA.tO.2S
PERSONAL ITEMS
Air-Vice-Marshal C. B. Wilcock, here
in the Orcades to advise the U.K. High
Commissioner on civil aviation, knows
the subject all right. A soldier in the
Kaiser’s >var, wounded at Ypres before
shifting to the R.F.C., he was in the
next war deputy-director of manning at
the Air Ministry and senior personnel
staff officer of Transport Command, re-
sponsible for manning the thousands of
transports that flew from all over the
Empire and touched down in Britain.
Mainly civil planes, their handling gave
him a useful insight into his next job —
chairman of the peace-time Parliamentary
committee on civil aviation. An autho-
rity op aviation insurance, he has been
Labor M.P. for Derby since 1945.
“Macnell”: Lt.-Cdr. Eric John Peel,
new Director of Operations at Navy
Office, was born at Folkestone (Eng.) in
the middle of World War I. He was very
much in the middle of the next —14
months in destroyer Vendetta in her Medi-
terranean fighting from early 1940, fol-
lowed by a lively year aboard her equally
hard-fought sister Vampire. His appoint-
ment in the last boat was terminated
when, some months after her close-range
view of the Prince of Wales and Repulse
tragedy, she herself sank under a cloud
of Jap dive-bombers in the Bay of Bengal
in 1942. Picked up by hospital ship Vita,
whose personnel Waterhen had earlier
rescued in the Mediterranean from Luft-
waffe attentions. Peel had a needed spell
ashore at the R.A.N. College, went to
sea for more in cruiser Australia, and
got his first command with corvette Kal-
goorlie in 1944. Next he drove frigate
Gascoyne, surveying and charting bom-
bardment channels for battleships,
through northern waters while Mac-
Arthur’s forces were closing on the Philip-
pines, and was present at the Luzon
landings. For this, rank of acting-com-
mander, D.S.C. and American Legion of
Merit.
Major-General Clive Steele, D. 5.0.,
M.C., appointed Director of Emergency
Labor in the Victorian strike crisis, is a
consulting civil engineer and company
director who was offered the big job of
acting-chairman of the State Electricity
Commission last March but declined it
for health reasons. Educated at Scotch
College and Melbourne University, he
served with the first A.I.F. for most of
its war, and with the second as Chief
Engineer of the A.M.F,
“V.K.”: Frank Talbot, passed on in
Melbourne, was a theatre-manager known
in two hemispheres for over 30 years.
For 25 of them he was manager and host
of the Athenaeum, in Melbourne, which
he converted into an all-British film-
house, the first in the world. He made
film history in other ways; when he
screened movies at the old Glaciarium in
1904 it was the first introduction of regu-
lar programmes to Melbourne; he gave
the British theatre its first Australian film
in 1919, “The Sentimental Bloke,” and in
1929 he brought the first talkie to Mel-
bourne—“ The Jazz Singer.” He toured
the dancer Adelina Genee in 1900, then
managed Harry Lauder’s tour, and took
control of the Athenaeum when it was re-
modelled for legit, production, present-
ing there “The Sport of Kings” and “The
Ghost Train.” He was knocked down
and his thigh was broken near Princes
Bridge on a foul night. His age—over
80 —-lost him the next round,
Albert (“Jupp”) Gardiner, now in his
eighties, had an anniversary on July 14;
58 years to the day since the first Labor
party made its appearance in the N.S.W.
Parliament. He and Thomas Williams,
who later dropped out of politics, are the
only survivors of that first batch. Billy
Hughes came in three years later, in 1894.
Gardiner, who sat in the Senate continu-
ously for 27 years, was as well an
organiser of the Shearers’ Union before
it became the A.W.U., and his character
has kept the sturdy Australianism that
has distinguished that body.* One-time
representative Rugby Union player and a
solid cricketer—a team-mate when he
played in Orange was the mighty hitter
Bonnor—he is these days an ardent chess-
man.
For the first time both awards for
science-research scholarships under the
sponsorship of the Royal Commissioners
for the Exhibition of 1851 have come to
Melbourne University. The winners are
Raymond Martin, a chemistry graduate,
and David Caro, a graduate in physics.
Martin’s father. Professor L. H. Martin,
won the same scholarship before him.
Nathaniel Spielvogel, Ballarat’s G.O.M.
and president of its Historical Society,
threw a large bucket of cold water over
part of the plans for the city’s gold cen-
tenary celebrations, due in 1951. The
75-year-old veteran, who has glorified
his city in his books and poems, sees
red when goldmining is mentioned ; when
it was proposed to mark the sites of the
biggest gold-producers with commemora-
tive tablets, he objected that those cele-
brated goldmines were gloomy pits in
the ground where miners worked for
paltry wages in dark damp drives laying
up in their bodies, the seeds of miners’
phthisis. However the committee takes
Nat’s glamor-stripping, none will dispute
his authority on the era ; he owns to a
raft of books of poems and historical
works on the golden city’s early days, and
was historical, adviser for the Eureka film.
Dalhousie University, Halifax
(Canada), with a roll of 2000 scholars,
has conferred an honorary doctorate of
laws on Dr. R. S. Aitken, vice-chancellor
of Maoriland’s Otago University. A
Rhodes Scholar, Dr, Aitken left M.L.
for England in 1924, and stayed to fill
several big jobs, the last being Regius
Professor of Medicine at Aberdeen Uni-
versity. He came home to his present
post in Dunedin 18 months ago. At the
investiture at Dalhousie a fellow-Maori-
lander on the staff. Professor C. L.
Bennett, performed the ceremony.
By way of indicating the popularity
enjoyed by Jack McLeay, here presented,
Coventry reveals that though McLeay’s
vegetable garden abuts on a main
thoroughfare, and has no fence, he’s
never had a radish pinched. Whether
this immunity results from the honesty
of Croweaters or the quality of
McLeay’s radishes, he is certainly re-
garded as one of the most popular Lord
Mayors in Adelaide’s history. Now a
breezy, dynamic 17-stone, he was some-
what more streamlined when he was a
Sheffield runner and ambulance-bearer
with the old A.1.F., where he collected
M.M. He was born on Yorke Peninsula,
but Unley was his main stamping-
ground. In that suburb —where his son
is a councillor —he’s been mayor, chair-
man or president of everything about the
place, and its Independent member in the
Assembly. Hitherto he has left political
eloquence to brother George, recently
EX-LORD MAYOR.
Senate Opposition-leader, confining his
own jovial disposition to after-dinner
speaking. Now he is handing over the
mayoral chains to contest Boothby seat
in the next Federal furore. A Chief
Caledonian and one-time president of
Legacy, with George he founded a well-
padded furniture business, which they
still jointly conduct.
Captain A. S. Rosenthal, R.A.N., here
charted by Woolcott, wears D.S.O. and
Bar. The first was won when, driving
destroyer Nestor in a particularly nasty
Malta-convoy attack in Pantellaria Straits
—the infamous E-boat Alley—he slid his
ship alongside the torpedoed merchant-
man Sydney Star, dropped his boats for
fenders and took aboard 500 men. Next
EX-DESTROYER-MAN.
day, fighting his guns almost continuously
against a horde of planes, Rosenthal
finally brought the' merchantman safely
to berth in Valetta Harbor. The gong
was duplicated for a smart piece of depth-
charging on a U-boat off Cape St. Vincent.
On the night of June 16, 1942, again in a
Malta convoy, Nestor was caught by a
brace of 1000-pounders that opened her
boiler-rooms and fired their oil. To
quench the flaming funnel Rosenthal
ordered soaked hammocks to be plugged
in through the inspection-hole. She was
too far gone, however, and Rosenthal
was taken off, to shift to Washington as
naval attache. Son of Major-General Sir
Charles Rosenthal, he had his own elder
son an able-seaman in the R.A.N.R. in
the last scrap and a brother commissioned
in the R.N.R., and- at the moment is
Director of Naval Reserves and Reserve
Fleet,
“Uramao”: Under a Rockefeller Foun-
dation travelling scholarship. Dr. H. P.
Purves, of Otago (M.L.) medical school,
is off to California. University, Harvard
medical school and the Oakridge labora-
tory in Tennessee. Here, among other
atom-things, research on the thyroid and
pityitary glands is in progress ; Dr. Purves
will study the application of radio-
isotopes to medical research and return
with the knowledge to the radio-isotope
laboratory at Dunedin’s medical school.
Spiked his last copy, Harold Sexton,
recently editor of the Adelaide
“Chronicle.” Adelaide-born, he started
on the Inky Way with Melbourne “Age,”
and two years later moved to the Wanga-
ratta (Vic.) “Dispatch.” His first assign-
ment there was to report the inaugura-
tion of the Commonwealth. He was
with the Tasmanian “North-West Post”
with William Fisher, and when that
front-ranker of Australian journalism
died assumed the editorship. Seven
years of that, and he returned to
Adelaide to begin his long association
with the “Advertiser” and its weekly
brother, the “Chronicle.” He was 69.
Most “unofficial” post-offices are run
by the same family for years; even so,
that at Crowlands, near Ararat (Vic.),
must be a record-breaker —the Wilkinson
family have conducted it for more than
threequarters of a century. In 1872
Samuel Wilkinson, then schoolteacher,
local preacher and postmaster, received
the daily mail from Cobb and Co.’s coach
when it pulled up at the old schoolhouse
(now the hall). In 1889 the p.-o. was
transferred to his brother, and later to
his brother’s daughter, who carried on
tjll 1916, when her brother took over.
Last April he died, and the little-office
passed out of the Wilkinsons’ hands —after
77 years.
The N.S.W. Force has changed since
the days when a constable impressed by-
standers into dragging a dead horse into
King-street, because, required to make a
report, he couldn’t spell “Castlereagh.”
Inspector Andrew McKeachie, for 30
years recruiting officer in charge of the
Redfern Police Depot, had a large hand
in the change; he died on the eve of
taking retiring leave. The homilies offered
by the schoolmasterly chap when a man
joined or left the depot for outside duty
will be remembered by many now climbed
to high positions in the Force. They
were always good homilies, with “friend
of the public” as their motif.
Group-Captain William Garing, C.8.E.,
D.F.C., new commandant of the com-
bined-services School of Air-Land War-
fare at Williamtown (N.S.W.), rates
enough three-element experience to make
the job almost a sinecure. After Dun-
troon, he changed in 1936 from land
planes to seaplanes, instructed on the
latter at Point Cook, later commanded
the station’s seaplane squadron, and
when war broke was flight-commander of
the storied 10 Squadron, R.A.A.F., whose
Sunderlands sub.-hunted, reconnoitred,
escorted convoys and fought enemy
fighters round about the North Atlantic,
France and the Mediterranean. He flew
Lord Lloyd to France for discussions
with the Retain Government before it
surrendered to Hitler in 1940, and piloted
for the Duke of Kent and Anthony E'den.
In 1941 Garing came home to command
No, 9 Operational Group, R.A.A.F.,
which had some say in the Milne Bay
and Buna campaigns. Just before the
cease-fire he went to Washington as
R.A.A.F. representative, and on return
landed command of the Western Area,
Westralia, His present job will be to
engender smoother understanding and co-
operation between officers of the three
Services.
Doyen of Australian composers, Dr.
Ruby Davy has died in Melbourne. An
infant prodigy who played the piano
competently at five, she was born at
Salisbury (S.A.), and graduated from the
Elder Conservatorium in Adelaide. She
toured England and the U.S., and in 1936
settled in Melbourne, to found the Dr.
Davy Conservatorium ; and, as well, 'to
lecture, establish the Society of Women
Musicians, assist numerous musicians ,of
her own sex and compose an enormous
amount of music. Becoming enamored
of the color theories in music, she com-
posed her Color Symphony (inspired by
a visit to Colombo); she composed also
the oratorio “Hymn of Praise” and
scored for the choral work “Australia
Fair and Free,” performed during Mel-
bourne’s Centenary celebrations. She
was the first woman in Australia to gain
a Doctorate of Music, and the first in
Adelaide tp take a doctor’s degree in any
faculty. Literary work and practical
psychology were her hobbies.
Into the Silence;
At Emmaville, near Tamworth (N.S.W.), at
31, Charles Scherf, D. 5.0., D.F.C. and Bar,
World War H squadron-leader and fighter ace.
His consistent gallantry was highlighted by a
violent 15 minutes over Europe in which he
shot down six German aircraft.
In Melbourne, at 65, John Joseph Hall,
editor of he “Leader” and founder, with ex-
Premier John Allen, of the Kyabram Movement,
which produced the Victorian Country party.
He then became organiser of the Farmers’
Union, won Kara Kara-Borung for the C.P.,
sat in Parliament for three weeks and was
unseated by a recount.
At Nanango (Q.), at 92, old-timer Thomas
English, one of the last links with the early
cedar-cutters of the Richmond River. In his
time expert rifle-shot, traveller (by camel from
Camooweal to Broome and Wyndham) and
collector, in Cooktown, of marine specimens,
including some finely-carved pearlshell worked
by Jap divers.
At 92, in Melbourne, G. W. Selby, pioneer
in Australian radio, telegraphy and X-ray
science. He joined B.H.P. from England in
1886 and became its chief auditor. He was
among the first to manufacture X-ray equip-
ment, operated one of the first plants in Mel-
bourne, and claimed to have made the first
’phone used in that city.
In Adelaide, in the interval after playing a
concerto with the city’s string orchestra, H.
Brewster Jones, pianist, composer and teacher.
He studied the piano in Germany on a scholar-
ship brilliantly won from Adelaide Conserva-
torium, and returned to write a sheaf of piano-
works, concertos and sonatas. His symphonic
poem, “Australia Felix,” was played in 1941
by the Melbourne Symphony Orchestra. He
had been the “Advertiser’s” music critic and
pianist with the A.B.C. studio orchestra.
In Heidelberg (Vic.) Military Hospital,
Thomas Briggs, a two-war Digger who was
twice mayor of Williamstown. A special magis-
trate of the Children’s Court, he extended the
work begun there by ardent service with the
Salvation Army.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
A really serious piece of news in Syd-
ney is that the City Missions directed by
that fine humanitarian Padre S. A.
McDonald face the grim necessity of
opening eight (or more) new centres.
These centres are generally known as
soup kitchens. Their service to the com-
munity in times of stress cannot be too
highly praised. But that eight new
kitchens are a need owing to the present
crisis, in a city where a few weeks ago
there was not enough manpower or
womanpower for the jobs offering, must
make every woman, if not every man,
wonder what our strong, brilliant leaders
in Canberra are doing to earn their board
and keep.
The centres will be opened as close to
school areas as possible, and school-
children will be the first guests to the
hot midday meal. It is good for the
bodies of small children to be nourished.
It is not good for their minds that they
should see the hopelessness on the faces
of fathers no longer able to adequately
provide for their needs.
And now the City Council is about to
open food depots.
The Rushcutter Bay section of the
N.S.W. Women’s Hockey Association .has
a new pennant, the handiwork of its
members. It is six feet by three feet, and
on its snow-white background a fiery and
triumphant phoenix spreads its wings. The
pennant was unfurled by Sydney’s Lord
Mayor O’Dea on a pleasant afternoon
bright with winter sunshine. Accompany-
ing him were Alderman Warren and Mrs.
Warren, from Canterbury, and Bill Lati-
mer, representing his father, the Mayor of
Woollahra.
Names connected with women’s
hockey in Australia for the past decade
and more were heard in every group.
Miss Annis Rees received the official
party. Present were Dr. Marie Hamilton,
chairman of All-Australia Hockey ; Erica
Fielding, N.S.W. president; Tory Wicks,
secretary of All-Australia. Lord Mayor
O’Dea also met the 15 captains of Rush-
cutter Bay teams. Later Mrs. Warren pre-
sented last year’s badges. Still later, there
was tea. Above the japonica and the
gerberas decorating the table rose an
enormous iced cake, made by Miss Rees
and her sister.
Mrs. Sheila Hardy, who was Sheila
Dalton, of Kangaroobie, Orange, became
Mrs. Harry Meeks last week. The wed-
ding and the bitterest westerly of the year
coincided, but the bride looked as cheery
as a sunbeam as she and her ’groom
emerged from St. Stephen’s in Macquarie-
street. Sheila wore a dress of pale-blue
woollen with a matching coat, and a pale-
blue cloche hat. Her flowers were violets
and a cattleya orchid. Her sister, Mrs.
Travis Falkiner, of Jerilderie, was her
only attendant. Her outfit was navy
and lime-green. A small reception was
held in the Macquarie Club. Mrs. Meeks
is a daughter of the late “Mick” Dalton,
of Orange. Her mother, a noted good-
looker, is at present visiting England.
There is art tinged with humor in the
present show at the Grosvenor Gallery.
Norman himself would appreciate
a quite unconscious bit which has been
added by the typist to the catalogue.
Herein a pencil drawing “To the Zoo” is
said to be by “Normal Lindsay.”
If you like only stark realism, and
backyard vistas, you’d be bored by this
roomful of charm and good drawing.
There’s a panel of lithographs by Marie
Laurencin, and another of by
Toulouse-Lautrec. On the opening day
a group of Thea Proctor’s was admired ;
so were the flowerpieces and landscapes
by Paul Jones. There’s a touch of
romance about his work, as they say there
was about the sea exploits of Paul Jones
of privateering renown.
If the lighting restrictions continue
someone will have to give Wal Taylor,
who owns the gallery, a couple of crystal
candelabra. He couldn’t possibly dese-
crate its atmosphere with hurricane-lamps.
In Thursday’s twilight art-lovers peered
at the pictures, and quite a few were
bought. Mrs. M. Darling and Mrs. G.
Grahame, a great friend of artist George
Lambert’s widow, were among the en-
thusiasts who climbed the stairs. The lift
that had early in the piece trapped two
visitors joined the miners and went on
strike.
All Sydney’s musical came running
when the tocsin sounded for Roland
Foster’s testimonial concert. This was
held in the Conservatorium, where Roland
has taught singing for over 30 years. The
singers on the programme are, or had
been, his pupils, including that popular
pair Heather Kinnaird and Raymond
Beatty. Heather, slim and fair, wore a
frock of white crepe, the skirt very full,
the bodice embroidered with smith blue
crystal birds. Con. associates Frank
Hutchens and Lindley Evans rolled out
their grand pianos and did their famous
duo act.
There was a packed house, old friends
and old pupils making up the audience.
Mrs. Sydney Herring and Miss Dome
Beattie showed how very attractive black
velvet frocks can look.
Mrs. Florence Taylor 3 Josephine Marks,
Matron Goodwin, Aubrey Hahoran,
singer Nora Mack, Erik Langker, Admiral
Feakes and Mrs. Feakes, Sheila Collett
were among the many. After the interval
Minister for Education Heffron made the
presentation—a portrait of Roland by
Jerrold Nathan. Dr. Bainton, former
Director of the Con., and banker C. R.
McKerihan were other speechmakers. The
only two ladies on the stage during the
presentation were Mrs. Florence Taylor
and Mrs. Foster. The latter’s frock was
of royal-blue velvets. Turquoise-blue
sandals and long wine-colored suede
gloves rounded # off the color-scheme.
Among the piles of congratulatory mes-
sages were one from Eugene Goossens
and one from Marjorie Lawrence.
Happy voyage, Mary Woodward (Miss
New Zealand)! Marv is now on her
wa V t° London. Here she is pictured on
n 'gßt she was the guest of the Kiwis
Sydney.
Sydney welcomed Viennese singer
Elizabeth Schwarzkopf (which is about
equivalent to “brunette,” but she is a
blonde) with a biting westerly. But she
laughed that off. Elizabeth is one of
those hardy souls who takes cold showers
all the year round. Also, her favorite
sport is mountaineering. One thing and
another, the Franz Josef glacier in Maori-
land is a thrill in store for her. Elizabeth
has a soprano already renowned in
Europe. It has been heard at all the big
music festivals and opera-houses, includ-
ing Covent Garden. There she sang in
“The Magic Flute” with Sydney’s Kenneth
Neate, who took the tenor part, Tarnino.
Miss Schwarzkopf has a laugh curl-
m S through her speaking voice, and
her concert frocks are from the
est fashion-houses m P ari s, London
and Brussels. She will give 33 concerts
u nd er A-B.C. direction. The first of the
ser *es will be in Brisbane.
The Town Hall chandelier is already
tossing its lustres at the thought of the
ball to be held there in September, the
month when boronia and pittosporum
are beginning to scent the earth. The
junketing, which will benefit the Lady
Mayoress’s Relief Fund, will be a
cabaret affair. Tickets will be one guinea
each, and the Lord Mayor and Mrs.
O’Dea will receive their guests from
8.30 to 9 o’clock. For the big night the
vestibule will be turned into a reception-
room, and here citizens will chat with
the city’s chief alderman. The Gover-
nor and Mrs. Northcott and a party
from Government House will be pre-
sent, and a company of debs, will be
presented to the Lord Mayor and the
Lady Mayoress,
Signs of the times. Last week this
Letter received a postcard from Mrs.
Maurice Gulson. It pictured a famous
Buddhist temple in Ceylon. Mr. and
Mrs. Gulson had just come from a
journey in the beautiful highlands. The
writing on the p.c. reads: “Sydney news
not good reading.” But far, far better
reading than enduring.
His Excellency the Governor and Mrs.
Northcott, with daughter Elizabeth, will
be present at the Sydney Hospital Ball to
be held in the Wentworth Ballroom on
August 24. President of the committee
is Mrs. J. K. Schartl, the secretary is
Mrs. S. S. Blake and the treasurer Mrs.
L. J. Hooker.
From Melbourne
At the last International Chopin Com-
petition in Warsaw a brilliant young
French pianist, Collette Gaveau, was a
competitor. She didn’t land the Grand
Prixf but she did win for herself the
winner of the coveted prize-the Polish
pianist Witold Malcuzynski. At the first
recitaj Witold gave in Melbourne under
the A.B.C. banner Collette was a strik-
ing figure in a long, slim-fitting black
crlpe-romaine skirt, a gold mesh blouse
and a silver-fox cape Mrs. Stewart
added mink to her frock in, muted-floral
tones. Mrs. A. M. Coates’s black frock
was printed with small white bows. Mrs.
John Chaldjian’s ankle-length frock was
of brown faille. The Fraser lady wore
Parma-violet crepes with a sable cape,
Madame M. Stoicesco gave a touch of
iviouat iu U 1
omnTe crlne sash ®
Artist Arnold' Shore lectured on
~ Z • . r . ■ „ r „ ft tri
the linei p . .. A mer : can
members of the Austrahan-Amencan
Association Women’s Group when they
met at Scott’s Hf kT heSfst speaker
was introduced by *be. presidimt, Mrs.
R. G. Casey, w o was i
coat and small brown beret Secretary
Rhoda Taylor added a matching hat to
“ er , b A Ck J" S w w
included Mrs. W W. “lough, who wore
a giey-lamb coat ant t f
bfSf” d y feathers 1 Mnt Cart Rauff her
black hat flying black-and-white feathers
with a threequarter coat of: black
Persian-lamb; Mrs. John Mo yneux, her
green coat worn with a j V
tartan bonnet finished with a green
feather; Mrs, Laurie Tewksbury, in a
grey tailored suit , and Mrs. . ,
whose black ensemble was lightened with
a bright red-and-blue taffeta scarL
Walter Pym will produce Eugene
O’Neill’s “Ah, Wilderness lor the Tin
Alley Players, in which Yetta Rothberg,
subject of this Hollywood Studios
portrait, is the star. While an under-
graduate Yetta played the title role m the
M.U.D.C.’s production of Oscar Wilde s
“Salome,” and she has appeared in Ihe
Constant Wife” and “This Happy Breed
with the T.A.P. Yetta met her husband,
Dr. Maurice Rothberg, when he was
doing research work at Melbourne Uni.,
and before he went to the U.S.A. to study
for his Ph.D. degree. Their home is at
North Balwyn, and they have two small
sons. “Ah, Wilderness” will begin its
season of four nights on July 27 at the
Union Theatre.
Mrs. Richard Cresswell gave a late-
afternoon party in her St. Kilda-road flat
to enable presswomen to meet members
of the committee and ticket-secretaries of
the forthcoming Air Force Women’s
Association Ball. The hostess wore a
winter-white crepe romaine blouse, wide
gold belt and black crepe ballerina skirt.
Mrs. John Black’s Harella suit was ink-
blue, her small felt hat winter-white.
Mrs. W. N. Gibson’s tailored frock was
of grey wool. Another member of the
committee, Mrs. D. R. Beattie, wore a
grey suit with a blue-and-white polka-dot
blouse. One of the ticket-secretaries,
Mrs. A. N. Murdoch, wore a black cock-
tail frock; the other, Mrs. D. G. Candy,
was in beech-brown faille.
Although she is now a farmer’s wife
and the mother of two bonny girls,
Elizabeth Patterson still has time to paint
and thus carry on the family tradition.
She is a niece of Esther and Betty Patter-
son, both well-known artists. Elizabeth’s
recent exhibition was a family affair, for
her uncle, G. Hermon Gill, did the open-
ing honors. The artist was attractive in
a black wool ballerina frock with white
net frills outlining the deep neckline and
short sleeves. Her mother, Mrs. Ford
Patterson, allied grey alpaca and a hat in
forest-green velours. Mrs. Ted Doyle
covered her beige suit with a hip-length
musquash cape. Artist Phyl Waterhouse
highlighted her black ensemble with a
primrose-yellow scarf. Mrs.. Roger Fair-
bairn’s brown seal coat had a sable
collar; her hat was a cluster of brown
satin ribbons. Notable was Mrs. S. J.
Cumming’s beige felt folded beret
finished with a long brown tassel.
At the Toorak Presbyterian Church
Mrs. Mary Austin, second daughter of
the late Mr. and Mrs. G. H. Whitehead,
formerly of Goodwood, Minhamite, was
quietly married to Robert K. McArthur,
eldest son of Mrs. E. McArthur, Camper-
down, and the late Mr. McArthur. The
bride’s jacket-suit of navy taffeta had a
flared peplum, and she wore with it a
head-hugging hat of pale-pink taffeta
trimmed with navy flowers. The reception
at Menzies’ was attended by many rela-
tives and friends from the country dis-
tricts.
The U.S. Naval Attache, Commander
Stephen Jurika, and his wife, who fly
from Sydney to their home in San Diego,
California, on August 14, were guests-of-
honor at a luncheon given by the English-
Speaking Union at the Victoria. During
his two years’ service here Commander
Jurika has flown all over Australia, and
in his short talk at the luncheon he spoke
of the beauties and possibilities of the
country. The Commander and his wife
were welcomed by the president of the
E.-S.U., knight Owen Dixon, and his wife,
Mrs. Jurika covered her wine-toned crepe
frock with a brown beaver coat; her
small hat matched her frock. Parma
violets trimmed the black hat worn by
the Dixon lady with her black Persian-
lamb-trimmed coat. Among the official
guests were U.S. Consul-General S. J.
Fletcher and Mrs. Fletcher, Lady Lowe
and Mrs. Gerald Bacon.
Youth and gaiety went hand in hand
to make successful the party given by
Mr. and Mrs. Norman Lynch, of Toorak,
for their son Paul before he left in the
Strathaird for Switzerland. Among the
pretty girls who danced the rhumba's and
sambas were Wendy Ward, decorative in
aqua-blue satins sewn with moonlight
sequins; Anne Hart, whose gown of
rippled georgette was in mauve, blue and
pink ; Jeanette Smith, in a ballerina, frock
of mulberry-toned satin and a corded
white velvet bolero; Pat Clayton, her
strapless gown of olive-green moire
taffeta ; her sister Janet, in a flared white
lace gown ; Averil Goldstone, whose blue
moire taffeta ballerina frock was coin-
spotted in white; Margaret Westwood,
pastel-blue her satin gown with its strap-
less bodice finished with a deep frill;
Joan Hicks, wearing a tartan taffeta bal-
lerina ; Moira Hannan, her ballerina
frock of heavenly-blue satin ; and Char-
maine Carvell-Ciarke, an off-the-shoulder
bodice a feature of her
satin ballerina frock.
Bright plumage, flowers and ribbons
were fashion touches at the V.A.T.C.
Caulfield meeting. Although ensembles
were in muted shades, hats gave the uplift
in most cases. Lola McKenzie rose to the
Caledonian tradition in a frock and hat
in the clan tartan, extending it even to
the umbrella. Mrs. Lou Green draped a
white chiffon scarf, printed in red shoes
and ballerinas (a fashion inspired by the
film), over her black tailored coat. Mrs.
S. K. Cain contrasted her grey duvetyn
coat with a draped hat in royal-blue
duvetyn. Nan Dixon highlighted her
beige gabardine suit with a black wool
sweater and a small gold straw hat. Mrs.
Peter Watkins wore a grey coat which
had a grey fox collar, and her pale-pink
grosgrain hat with its jaunty feather was
matched by her gloves. Just back from
England, where she did a post-graduate
course in nursing, Diana Harrison wore a
grey squirrel coat over her powder-blue
frock; tall black ospreys trimmed her
matching blue hat.
Gold lame adorned the hat worn by
Mrs. Norman Richards with her black
coat. Her sister, Mrs. N. Austin, was
snug in a grey Persian-lamb coat and
brown beret. A snow-leopard collar
trimmed the beige alpaca coat Mrs.
Cyril Knight wore with her gold-studded
brown beret. Over a black suit Mrs, A.
H. Dennett wore a musquash coat; her
black hat was finished with fine black
veiling. Pale-blue feathers flew from the
pastel-pink felt hat worn by Mrs, A.
Fowler with her dyed-ermine coat.
Dyed ermine was also the choice of Mrs.
H. R. Waye, who achieved a different
effect with a brown velvet hat. Mrs.
Keith Bostock combined aqua blue and
brown in the hat she wore with a brown
beaverine coat. An emerald-green felt
halo hat finished with a black osprey
offset Mrs. C. Curtain’s black Persian-
lamb coat.
Almost £3OO was raised by the card
afternoon held at the Town Hall for the
Vera Scantlebury Brown Memorial Fund,
of which Lady Herring is chairman. The
Lady Mayoress, who wore a black suit
anji small black hat, was assisted by Mrs.
O. J. Nilsen, the convenor for the after-
noon, and Mrs, F. J. Hardy, hon. trea-
surer. The Connelly lady was hon. secre-
tary. Hal Geary, of the “Oklahoma”
cast, conducted a Dutch auction and cap-
ably disposed of a model hat donated
by Marjorie Gilbert and a dress-length
of floral silk given by Mrs. Roy Stewart.
Yvonne and Patric Whittam gave a hat
as one of the raffle prizes.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKS Oly a
oSWhUVAtf
mm,,,
& '•teis SertJT v
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
BEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
Monotype and linottpb
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“IACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Tender.
BRITISH SOLOMON ISLANDS
PROTECTORATE.
NOTICE.
TENDERS are invited for the purchase of
the Crown’s interest in all scrap, ex-war
stores and military property in the British
Solomon Islands Protectorate apart from
material and equipment in use by Gov-
ernment and all buildings and building
materials. No inventories exist, and the
sale is on the basis of acceptance of the
materials where and in the condition in
which they are found. The successful
tenderer will have to make his own ar-
rangements for entry into private property.
Tenders should be submitted in two parte.
(a) For all ferrous and non-ferrous
scrap and materials, excluding
brass scrap.
(b) For all brass, scrap per ton ex-
ported.
Tenders in respect of part (a) or part
(b) only will not be considered. Tenders
should state proposed terms of payment.
The successful tenderer will be re-
quired to enter into an agreement with
the Government of the British Solomon
Islands Protectorate covering all its
terms and including provision for com-
plete clearance of areas to the satisfac-
tion of Government. Tenders should be
enclosed in sealed envelopes marked
“Tenders, Solomon Islands Scrap,” and
should be accompanied by a bank guaran-
tee to the amount of the tender.
Tenders will close on 30th September,
1949, and should be in the hands of the
Secretary to Government, Honiara, British
Solomon Islands Protectorate, not later
than 10 a.m. on the 30th September,
1949.
The highest or any tender will not
necessarily be accepted.
Personal.
EVEREST.—WOULD GEORGE MAX-
WELL EVEREST, a son of Ernest George
Douglas Everest and Eliza Jane Everest,
formerly Gunter, and who was last heard
of in the Denman district about 1940, or
anyone knowing his whereabouts, please
communicate with the PUBLIC TRUS-
TEE, 19 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Public Notice.
I, ANTONIO SCEPILLITI, of Italian
nationality, born at St. Agatha, Italy,
resident 12 years in Australia, now resid-
ing at 257 West Street, Cammeray, intend
to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1949.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO PHYLLIS LEILA STARR formerly
of Camperdown New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that JAMES STARR has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1720 of 1949 on
the grounds of your desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years or
upwards and is asking for the discretion
of the Court under Section 19 (2) (a)
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the Fourth day of October One thousand
nine hundred and .forty-nine and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from
MESSRS. K. D, MANION & CO., Soli-
citors, 67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—
(1.5.) J. DOUGHAN, Acting Registrar
in Divorce.
THE SERVICE MAN
Atom-bombs for
Britain.
“Ek Dum”: There appears to
be controversy between the
United States and Britain about
the atom-bomb. As usual the
daily Press knows everything
about it from what President
Truman mutters in bed to what
General Eisenhower says—-ver-
batim —at “secret” conferences.
A lot of the information being
given out confidently is obviously
nonsense. The core of the tale is
that the British Government has
suddenly demanded (a) atom-
bombs from the United States
and/or (b) the secrets of the
final processes of making atom-
bombs. The requests are said
to be accompanied by a threat
that if Britain does not get what
she wants, the United States
uranium from the Belgian
Congo, which British capital is
said to control, will be cut down
and Canadian accessory material
supplies to the United States will
shrink. Also, Britain will set
out and make atom-bombs her-
self.
Some of the talk is obviously
nonsense developed by under-
cover Communists who infest
some news-services and daily
newspapers. The power of
British capital to restrict uranium
supplies from the Congo would
be very limited when it came to
an issue. And the question of
Britain getting the bomb is obvi-
ously more a matter of general
security and machinery for pro-
tection of it than anything else.
British scientists were the
virtual fathers of the bomb. Up
to the point of construction and
the development of the large-
scale mechanical - technique
associated with it, the bomb was
virtually a British project. But
there was no room for it in
Britain at a stage when it was
specifically experimental and
when every man, woman and
child and ounce of usable metal
and space were being applied to
the immediate and urgent needs
of war. Apart from this, Britain
was scarcely the place to develop
such a weapon at the time, being
in hourly reach of enemy
bombers, which would have been
concentrated on the plant at
almost any cost if its existence
had become known. Also, there
were certain detection elements
associated with it which enjoined
that it should be as far away
from German-held territory and
Japan as possible, apart from
the advantage of having all the
raw materials needed for it in
the same continent with the
plant making the pioneer speci-
mens.
The bomb was, therefore,
made a U.S. monopoly by agree-
ment. It has remained so,
subject to certain arrangements.
And if the Americans have
shown shakiness about handing
over specimens it is largely be-
cause of the feeling of insecurity
caused ■by the utterances of
British scientists and by the
Nunn May incident, in which a
leading British physicist handed
valuable secret material, includ-
ing a specimen of a uranium
isotope near to U 235, to the
Russians along with valuable in-
formation ; also because of the
fellow-traveller associations of
some of the people associated
with the British Labor party, and
especially with the Australian
“Labor” party, some of whose
Ministers have been Communists
and some of whose present ones
have expressed admiration of
Communism —there are three in
that box in the Chifley Ministry.
Also, the presence of Com-
munists openly hostile to the
British-American cause in British
Commonwealth scientific bodies
such as the C.S.I.R. no doubt
has had its effect. However,
probably the most interesting
facet of the situation is that it is
only now, four years after the
first atom-bombs fell, that the
possession of them has become
an issue with the British Govern-
ment —if it is an issue.
That seems to place the atom-
bomb in its true position in the
scheme of war. The bomb is not
an absolute essential to defence
in Europe at the present stage.
There are other elements far
more important, and they have
been attended to first.
Shipping was the very first
priority for material gnd labor.
Manpower, trained and re-
armed, could be taken as the
second. Aircraft of modern
fighting and bombing range and
speeds takes third-place by
virtue of time factors in work-
ing out the problems of apply-
ing new inventions. Rearma-
ment and reassortment of types
in the Navy run with aircraft de-
velopment. The atom-bomb has
last attention.
China's War Blazes Up.
“Ek Dum”: The Chinese
Communist advance has begun
again, perhaps accelerated by
the knowledge of Chiang Kai-
shek’s moves to create an anti-
communist alliance in the
Pacific and Indian Ocean.
Defeated Chiang may be, but
he is still active and not alto-
gether devoid of confidence.
Last week he turned up in
Canton, and where he goes he
leaves behind a little fire of re-
sistance. The Communist moves
follow directly on Mao’s an-
nouncement of his support of
the Moscow bloc and of his open
proposals for a joint Russo-
Chinese defence scheme, a plan
which is bound to harden
American opinion against him.
The Chinese Communist ad-
vance seems so far to be a some-
what vague affair—described as
“three-pronged”—but it has
gone a long way without meet-
ing any solid resistance. About
the middle of the week it was
reported that Communist forces
were driving south-westward
from Nanchang, which lies south
of the Yang-tsz, below the
Pooyang Lake and about a third
of the way from Shanghai to
Canton.
From here their armies—
nothing less than “armies” is
ever considered worth mention-
ing as a force in China—are sup-
posedly thrusting at two towns
on the Canton-Hankow rail-
way, 90 miles south of Changsha
in Hunan. They had reached a
point near the railway well
south of Changsha. It would be
logical to believe that they aje
engaged in a dual operation— to
cut off Hankow and Changsha
from the south, while at the
same time taking the shortest
route to the Meiling Pass, which
leads across the South Range
into Kwangtung &nd the valley
of the Pe-Kiang, a river which
runs north-south into the Si-
Kiang just to the west of Can-
ton, which is only 80 miles from
Hong Kong. Canton is certainly
an important objective as the
main outlet to the civilised
world of the Nationalists left in
China.
• What resistance the Nation-
alists have to offer remains to
be seen. They are said to have
established “a 500-mile front” to
protect the south and the areas
which they now occupy, and
along this Chiang is gravely re-
ported to have “massed 500,000
men,” whose supply-lines are,
“I had no idea before how comfortable the engineers' den
was , Prendergast."
however, “poor.” The effective
force can probably be arrived at
by dividing by five and by
reckoning that about a third of
the result will have enough
courage to wait for shooting to
start.
The British Government con-
tinues to take the threat to Hong
Kong seriously, as well it may
in the light of Mao’s now-
avowed determination to drive
all foreigners out of China.
Following 1500 men who were
landed a fortnight ago, a further
4000 landed from the troopships
Unera and Empire Trooper on
July 18, including the Ist Bat-
talion, Argyles and Sutherlands,
and the Ist Battalion, Middlesex
—a regiment which came to Aus-
tralia after the Crimean war,
and many of whose officers left
their names on Sydney streets.
There are now about 13,000
men in Hong Kong, apart from
the R.N. and the R.A.F.
Russia and the U.S.A.
Relations between the United
States and the U.S.S.R. in re-
spect of China were naturally at
once affected by Mao’s speech
a week ago, making it plain that
his policy was anti-British, anti-
American and linked with
Russia’s.
The U.S. State Department at
once announced the approach-
ing issue of a White Paper on
China, of which a preview has
been given to the Press.
This seems to make it clear
that Russia, as in every other
field, was guilty of the grossest
perfidy in its relationships with
the Allies in China.
There were widespread
breaches of agreement with the
Chinese, both direct and indirect.
The Sino-Soviet Treaty provided
for allowing China to take part
in the control of the ports of
Dairen and Port Arthur, but
these the Russians virtually an-
nexed,
Moscow, also, assisted the
Chinese Communists to obtain
the armament of the Japanese
Kwangtung Army, those arms
being used to fight Nationalist
China, which ostensibly was an
ally of the U.S.S.R., beside
being the holder of a U.N.O.
veto. Arms manufactured in
Manchuria, lawful Chinese
property under the Allied man-
agement, were handed also to
the Communists.
In fact, if it had not been for
barefaced Russian aid to the
Chinese rebels, Manchuria
would or should today be in
Nationalist hands, and the
Nationalists so strongly equipped
as to be able to deal with any
conceivable situation.
The White Paper, however, is
said to be frank about the
Nationalist Government’s short-
comings and failures and ob-
struction of a peaceful settle-
ment.
The Asian situation becomes
more and more unsettled every
day. A conference of British
Ambassadors and Ministers in
the Middle East has been held
in London with Mr. Bevin, the
British Foreign Secretary. The
subject-matters for discussion
are not only diplomatic. It is
reported that they include
measures to be taken “against
the possibility of armed attack
against certain Middle Eastern
countries.”
New Fighters.
“Ek Dum”: An R.A.A.F.
Vampire jet-fighter, in the hands
of Flight-Lieutenant Murphy,
has established a record from
Brisbane to Sydney, 457 miles,
in 62 minutes, an average of
441 miles per hour. It flew
from Newcastle to Sydney in
eight minutes—this on a day of
poor visibility and disturbed
atmospheric conditions.
Meantime, fighter design is
running right away from the
Vampires, if the Americans may
be believed (which they may not
always be), and some of the new
machines, such as the X9os, de-
signed to fight at long distances,
have some staggering features.
X9O, successor to the Shooting
Star, is said to weigh, all in,
about 28,0001 b,, or round about
the same as a DCS, and to have
tankage for 2000 gallons of fuel.
Apart from range, more speed
than an average of 441 m.p.h. on
a record is likely to be needed
in the fighters of the next war,
since the modern bomber operat-
ing at well over 400 m.p.h. at
40,000 ft. will have to be caught
and taken care of.
And the increasing size of
aircraft will play its part—within
the past few weeks, on May 19,
the U.S. Navy’s flying-boat,
Marshall Mars, negotiated the
500-mile trip from Alameda to
San Diego (California) with a
crew of seven and 301 passen-
gers.
However, for the moment,
Vampires seem to be about as
sound an investment as any.
Electioneering in
Guatemala.
“Ek Dum”; One of Dr.
Evatt’s great U.N.O. nations,
Guatemala, has been in the
throes of civil war, thus joining
Israel, Burma, China, the
Philippines, Bolivia, India,
Transjordan, Greece and a few
others who know what trouble
is.
Gautemala is about half the
size of Victoria and has a
population of about 3,300,000,
half of which is pure Indian
and most of the rest Indo-
Spanish with an aristocracy
which claims to be pure
Spaniard.
It has only recently abolishec
peonage, and its chief claim to
fame has always been that i
has demanded the handing-ove
to it of British Honduras eve
since 1839. It revived the ques
tion last year, asking more o
less politely that the United
States be asked to mediate. The
British politely refused, but sug
gested that the matter might be
referred to the Internationa
Court of Justice. Guatemala
then announced that all schools
would teach that British Hon-
duras was Guatemalan and tha :
all maps and textbooks woulc
be altered to prove it.
The Guatemalan Government
firmly rejected the ensuing
British protest against this car-
tographical annexation of the
hottest, wettest and most fever-
stricken morsel of the British
Empire—area 2000 square miles
less than Alexandria station in
the N.T., population 64,000,
rainfall average 82in. Then
Guatemala went to sleep until
the sound of shots awakened it
the other day, when it discovered
that the “Chief of the Armed
Forces,” Colonel Francisco
Arana, had been bumped off.
Tanks and armored cars
promptly attacked the National
Palace, the Government H.Q.,
and “all communication with
the outside world was cut off
for several hours,” after which
a “truce” was signed.
Nobody seemed to be sure
when this was written as to
what it was all about; but it
was deduced that what had hap-
pened was merely a piece of
electioneering.
Colonel Arana was to be a
candidate for the Presidency
next year. So another democrat,
and no doubt just as deeply im-
bued with the spirit of U.N.O.
and its ideals of peace, seems to
have decided to wipe him out to
save election expenses.


*
■
i
I. • ,
ii
* \ fci
:V-.»
/
w
.
The A.W.A. monogram on any instrument is a mark of
quality and scientific craftsmanship. It is the symbol of the
Radio Age, representing the knowledge gained from research
and engineering over more than 35 years.
Behind all A.W.A. products and services are the A.W.A.
laboratories, which have advanced radio in the home, on the
highways, at sea, and in the air. As one of Australia’s key
industrial organisations, A.W.A. recognises the value of
scientific research and its important role in peace and security.
Investigations now in progress include the use of frequency
modulation for telephone communication with moving
vehicles, as well as for broadcasting, development of special
transmitters and receivers to improve radio-telephone services
between Australia and overseas countries, television and
work on a number of new radio aids for navigation.
Over 1000 ships of the Merchant Navy are equipped with
A.W.A. wireless apparatus.
The progress made by commercial aviation and the enormous
mileages covered are due in a large measure to the develop-
ment of wireless and its application to aerial navigation and
communication.
A.W.A. maintains in a serviceable condition all radio equip-
ment in Australian commercial aircraft and overseas aircraft
operating to Australia. Over 150 aircraft for 20 different
companies are serviced by A.W.A. This has necessitated the
establishment of radio-servicing depots at all principal
aerodromes.
BROADCASTING TRANSMITTING STATIONS
WIRELESS TELEGRAPH AND TELEPHONE STATIONS
AERONAUTICAL RADIO EQUIPMENT
MARINE WIRELESS
RADIOLA BROADCAST RECEIVERS
SOUND AMPLIFYING SYSTEMS
<§)
r
m
I".;' *ss? '■ V • m
1
illi
WSZ- m
%
m. *
i
■
■Si
Ship’s Wireless Station
1C
t'*
. .
mu
m
m
m
mmsm*.*''*-
i
B
Broadcast
Transmitter
60.000-watt
, • ■
mm
mm
'
1
I
m
Radiola Assembly at Works
■ s ;,;
I
S i
v.f
■
¥i
mm
Studio Control Apparatus
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (Australasia) LTD
Australia’s National Wireless Organisation
47 YORK ST., SYDNEY 167 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE
Also at WELLINGTON, N.Z., and AUSTRALIA HOUSE, LONDON


.
tjufm UtHxJy
TMt
n
w*
LIKE THESE
U/^3
* STARS
3
m
m
m
NELLIE PALMER
AIAN STEWART. m»ngK<
MARSHALL M.A.Dip.Ed
m
pry WILLIAM MORRIS
7GRAYSON. HATFIELD. MORRIS ’
KNOW
io/s
Their accumulated knowledge and
experience will show you the way
to write short stories, articles,
radio plays and verse.
THE
V
m
%sSSk
L EARN
quickly to
develop a success-
ful literary style. Be
trained in journal-
ism, radio, verse and
story-writing bylead-
ing authors, journal-
ists and radio writers.
Spare-time study will
bring you a substan-
tial income and a de-
lightful new interest
in life. * >
AUSTRALIAN SCHOOL OF JOURNALISM.
SO Swanston St., Melbourne. C.l.
I enclose sd. postage for your Free Illustrated
Prospectus.
Name .. u _ .. „
(Mr. Mrs., or Miss)
Address .. ~
.State ..
Bui. 27/7/’4B
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO KEITH ARNOLD CHANDLER-
TAKE NOTICE that DOREEN FLORENCE
CHANDLER has filed her Petition for
Divorce No. 4642 of 1948 on the grounds
of desertion by reason of non-compliance
with a Decree for Restitution If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
on the Divorce Register Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the Eleventh of
October 1949 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from MESSRS.
BARKELL & PEACOCK, 11c Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—(n.s.) J. DOUGHAN,
Acting Registrar in Divorce.
TIRED FEET?
Hot, tired feet need
this treatment: —
A Cnticura Soap bath
and Cuticura Oint-
ment application,
it. and enjoy real fe
comfort. Cuticura f
Ointment. €oap and'
Talcum Powder—*
the famous
trio.
532
OINTMENT
SUNDRY SHOWS
There was a certain freshness
about Elizabeth Durack’s earlier
drawings and sketches of her
favorite abos. This came first
from her intense love of her
subject-matter and, secondly,
from her almost total ignorance
of the technique of painting.
She painted more or less as a
child talks who has only a
primitive acquaintance with the
language. Miss Durack’s latest
show at Tye’s Gallery, Mel-
bourne, bears evidence that the
artist has acquired some school
training. The result isn’t alto-
gether happy. What she sees
now isn’t so much the abo. but
her acquired conventions. Her
children aren’t individual bits of
observation, but all seem to be
the same child, and her land-
scapes don’t look so much like
the north-west as some formula
about it. Every artist has to
encounter this phase, and
most of them never get out of
it, though some do. The few
who do are the great ones, and
they have all said the same
thing —that what they learnt at
the academies they had painfully
to unlearn. In the meantime
Miss Durack is as passionately
interested in her subject-matter
as ever, and her catalogue is full
of good intentions.
• * * * *
The latest Kentucky Derby,
“Return of October,” is being
run four times daily at Sydney
State. It is unlikely to affect
the attendance at Rosehill next
Saturday. To anyone who has
not seen the same race run
annually since the year dot,
“Return of October” will
afford quite a pleasant hour or
so of featherweight entertain-
ment. Technicolor photography
of good horses in action and
racecourse environs can camou-
flage a multitude of cinematic
sins ; and “Return of October”
does have the saving grace of a
fair sprinkling of bright humor
—usually sadly missing from
these turf epics. By why, oh,
why must they unswervingly
follow such a rigid, set pattern?
Could we not, just once, ftave a
racing film in which the hero’s
(or heroine’s) horse does not
win—is not 20 lengths behind at
the turn only to win comfort-
ably with a ridiculous burst of
speed; one in which the family
fortunes are not saved by the
gallant animal; one in which
the gallant animal does not
heroically drop dead immediately
after passing the judge ; one, in
fact, in which the hero and
heroine are last seen looking
forward to a future of poverty-
stricken misery which a long-
suffering critic thinks they
thoroughly deserve.
* * * *
The first part of Eugene
Goossens’s programme at the
fifth concert of the symphony
season at Melbourne Town Hall
was devoted to Debussy. De-
bussy was the acknowledged
leader of the modern impres-
sionistic school, but nine im-
pressions by him in succession
sounded like musical arrowroot
washed down with barley-water.
Arrowroot has a delicate and
subtle flavor, but served as a
nine-course dinner it lacks
variety and contrast. There was
more of that in the Rach-
maninoff No. 3 Concerto, which
brought Polish pianist Mal-
cuzynski to the Steinway. Any-
body who has heard Paderewski
has heard Malcuzynski. He
was, in fact, that master’s pupil.
Winston Churchill, a politician,
late in life diverted himself with
painting and attained to more
competence than thousands of
whole-time artists. Paderewski
reversed the process by divert-
ing himself with politics, and
did no better at it than a mil-
lion others. However, while
President of an alleged republic
he did find time to interest him-
self in his young pupil and left
him to carry on his tradition.
Malcuzynski played with such
extraordinary calm that it was
difficult to believe that the
whispers, declamations and pas-
sionate overstatements of the
first movements and the martial
trumpetings, wild dances and
the volcanic outburst of the
finale came from the same
fingers. His staidness had the
curious effect of bringing half
the packed house to its feet in
an outburst of acclamation, a
thing not done more than half
a dozen times in Melbourne.
* * * *
Robert Donat’s presentation
of law as a gay adventure in
“The Winslow Boy” (Sydney
Esquire) is justified by the in-
solent grace with which he walks
through the part played in real
life by Sir Edward Carson and
the certainty with which he
carries off such surprises as the
scene where, having put the boy
through an angry cross-examina-
tion, he quietly concludes that
he is innocent and decides to
take the case —whether a naval
cadet had stolen a five-bob
postal-note: for the Crown, Sir
Rufus Isaacs, later Lord Read-
ing, Solicitor-General, assisted
by Mr. Horace Avory; for the
defence. Sir Edward Carson,
later Lord Carson, assisted by
Mr. Leslie Scott, later Solicitor-
General.
It may be some time before we
see another school of acting so
mellow, so brilliant and so varied
as in this film. The strong
dramatic line of the law case is
linked together by many small
pieces of acting of a very dif-
ferent kind; Basil Radford’s
study of a middle-aged solicitor
in love shows how much subtlety
can be crowded into a small
space to recreate the exquisite
manners of an Edwardian
gentleman; and Margaret
Leighton, a rarity among young
actresses, creates the daughter of
a middle-class family of 1912,
instead of merely impersonating
her, so firmly that it is possible
to feel the inspiration of the
acting and so delicately as never
to fall into caricature. Sir
Cedric Hardwicke’s full-length
portrait of Mr, Winslow, the re-
tired bank-officer, might well
represent the British father and
businessman in the same gallery
with William Powell’s rumbus-
tious portrayal of his American
counterpart in “Life With
Father,” although it is possible
that Powell, no inconsiderable
actor, never did anything quite
so satisfyingly right as the scene
where, finding it impossible to
get anywhere with the com-
mander of the naval school, Mr.
Winslow quietly asks the name
of his superior officer—and
Hardwicke’s performance is full
of such moments.
* * * *
“The Baker’s Wife” (Mel-
bourne Savoy) is a French
film subtitled in English
which is so well acted that it
loses none of its force with an
audience whose French stopped
with their schooldays. Raimu,
as the baker, takes over the
bakery in a tiny village, whose
entire population frequently
appears on the screen. Their
interest is equally divided be-
tween the quality of the new
baker’s baking and his beautiful
young wife, young enough to be
his daughter. The local marquis
sends his shepherd to collect his
weekly quota, and the shepherd
leaves the bread and makes off
with the wife of the baker. The
whole village interests itself in
the baker’s sad plight, and the
marquis, the priest and the
chemist organise search-parties.
The wife is found with the shep-
herd on a swampy island. He
deserts his mistress, and she is
brought back in triumph and
presented to the baker, who has
just tried to hang himself from
a rafter. He returns to his
neglected oven, the village gets
its bread, and the story closes
with the baker saying all he
would like to say to his wife to
a cat which has returned re-
pentant from just such another
amorous adventure with the cat
of a neighbor. There is a simple
poignancy about the distracted
cuckold’s acting which justifies
the claim that Raimu is a great
French artist.
* * * *
Emlyn Williams’s play about
the Welsh mining village, “The
Corn Is Green,” whose primitive
barbarism suffers the visitation
of an English schoolmistress with
a passion for “education,” who
recognises a potential literary
genius or great statesman in a
pitboy, is based on several false
assumptions. One is that a
schoolmarm, especially one as
hidebound, puritanical and con-
ventional as Miss Moffatt, would
recognise a genius if she saw
one ; and another is that the way
to bring it out of hipi is to send
him to a university, in this case
the one that threw out Shelley
and refused Freud permission
to lecture to it. If Morgan
Evans, the youth in question,
had a spark of originality in him,
and there is not much evidence
that he had, it wouldn’t have
had much chance of survival if
Miss Moffatt had her way with
him. He does show one flash of
originality; having, like Shak-
speare, got a girl of the village
with child, he refuses to desert
her in the interests of a scholar-
ship to Oxford. Miss Moffatt
succeeds in convincing him that
respectability and a university
education are much more im-
portant than his child. You
might make a professor out of
him, but you would never make
a writer.
Mr. Williams’s viewpoints are
so naive that the play, despite the
excellence of some of its charac-
terisations, has always sounded
hollow, and it didn’t ring any
the more true the other evening
when the National Theatre
Movement put it on to round off
its festival of opera, ballet and
drama at the Princess, Mel-
bourne. Reg Gillam gave a
sensitive portrayal of the tor-
tured Morgan Evans, and Eve
Wynne had the difficult task of
making Miss Moffatt into a
sympathetic figure.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy copy of Old Days, Old
Ways by Mary Gilmore. —4666.
Whereabouts of Ernest Osborne,
one-time Bulletin - contributor.—4667.
Words and music of song “Love’s
Devotion.”—466B.
To get in touch with Sydney resi-
dents interested in the study of yoga.
—4669.
To buy copy of Dad’s Way back by
Henry Fletcher. —4665.
Information Sought.
Method of cold-water washing of
clothes, involving soaking over the
week-end and the use of ammonia
and turpentine ?
Cut up £lb. of good laundry soap,
place in a saucepan with plenty of
water, and dissolve over a slow fire.
When dissolved, remove from stove;
add 1 tablespoon turpentine, 1 table-
spoon powdered borax and 1 tea-
spoon of rock ammonia. Stir well.
Place soiled linen in tub, pour the
mixture over, and add sufficient water
to cover. Soak for twenty hours,
rinse well and blue.
* * * *
What was the Casablanca Con-
ference ?
A meeting of Churchill arid Roose-
velt, January 14-26, 1943, together
with their Chiefs Qf Staff. Stalin
and Chians Kai-shek did not attend,
but were kept informed of progress
of discussions. General de Gaulle
of the Fighting French and General
Giraud, High Commissioner of
French Africa, were brought together
to unite France against Hitler. The
entire field of war was surveyed.
* * * *
Can private members in the House
of Reps, propose a bill ? If so, why
are they not introduced these days ?
Technically, any member can in-
troduce bills, and for any purpose
within the Constitution. In modern
usage, bills almost invariably originate
with the Government for the simple
reason that only the Government can
be sure of a majority in the House of
Reps. Private members belonging to
the Government party leave all legis-
lation in the hands of the Govern-
ment. Opposition members know the
numbers are against them, and rarely
pursue the normally futile course of
trying to bring in bills which, in the
nature of Parliamentary life, are
mostly certainly doomed to an early
demise.
* * *
Distinction between (1) “waler” and
(2) “Murrumbidgee whaler” ?
(1) A “water” was originally a
horse exported from New South
Wales to India for Army use; in
more modern times, a light type of
Army horse used in Australia. (2)
The “Murrumbidgee whaler” was a
tramp of especially indolent type. He
often camped for long periods
wherever fish could be caught,” espe-
cially along big rivers like the Dar-
ling, Murrumbidgee and Murray.
According to one account: “They
were so apt to lie about the size of
the ‘whales’ they caught that a
generic name for this class of unem-
ployable traveller came into being.”
* * * *
Some particulars of the Gothic
novel ?
It was a type of novel popular in
England in the latter half of the
eighteenth century, later spreading to
the U.S. and Europe, especially Ger-
many. It was characterised by horror,
terror, supernatural effects, murder,
violence and taste for the medieval,
usually set against a background of
Gothic architecture, especially a
gloomy and isolated castle. Horace
Walpole’s Castle of Otranto, Beck-
ford’s Vat her, Lewis’s The Monk
and Mrs. Radcliffe’s The Mysteries of
Udolpho are the outstanding English
representatives of the Gothic novel.
American authors of novels in the
Gothic tradition were Charles Brock-
den Brown, Nathaniel Hawthorne
and Edgar Allan Poe.
Brief Answers.
K.H.P.: Flame-throwers are avail-
able at prices ranging from £lO to
£l5. The makers of the “Rega”
flame-thrower say that one gallon of
power-kerosene is used in 20 to 30
minutes of operation and that the
machine throws a flame of about
10ft. in length. Get in touch with
either Buzacott-Wolseley Pty., Ltd.,
7 Market-street, or John Danks and
Son, 324 Pitt-street —both of Sydney.
J.E.H.: Forward us your address
and we will send particulars required
regarding importation of edible nuts.
E.McG.: There is no such pro-
vision contained in the Federal Con-
stitution. Before it could be made
part of the Constitution a proposed
law for its inclusion must be passed
by an absolute majority of each
House of the Parliament and the pro-
posal submitted to and carried by a
referendum of the people C.S.:
Replanning Our Towns and Country-
side by Andrew Benko and T. Rex
V. Lloyd, published by the Workers’
Educational Association of S.A.,
Adelaide... .R.8.F.: There are no
regiments in Australia affiliated with
either the Royal Horse Guards or the
First Life Guards... .P.M.H.: (1)
Too numerous to set out at length,
but mainly witnessing documents and
hearing minor charges of offences.
(2) Yes. (3) Yes... .E.T.: Apply to
Registrar in Divorce, Supreme Court,
King-street, Sydney J.G.H.: Boom
Spray Weed Control from Buzacott-
Wolseley Pty., Ltd., 7 Market-street,
Sydney R.C.; Write Arthur Yates
and Co., 184 Sussex-street, Sydney.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the
MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be
addressed to the Editor,
N.D.F.: The Bulletin doesn’t
circulate in the nursery J.D. : The
slight plot is ancient and the handling
is amateurish C. 8.8.: Sorry,
Beatrice can’t be admitted W.Y.:
Can’t undertake to return unused
paragraphs. And no stamps were en-
closed, in any case P.T.: A long
road to travel yet before you reach
Publication Point K.M.: We
haven’t got time for the person who
gets drunken spiders, dipped in ink,
to do his writing for him A.V.W.:
Neat, but there is very little market
here for parodies W.W.; Futile
attempt to be funny T.E.F.: Story
creaks along like a broken-down
truck on a bad hill road, and finally
cracks up miles from a climax....
Bellerive: We’re sorry that we didn’t
have a ringside seat:
A.F.M.: Heavy-footed foolscap
humor. It is a strange thing, but the
writer who uses foolscap is almost
invariably longwinded. There is some
deadly influence in the tombstone-like
slab of paper A.P.: Too slight
and the handling doesn’t help it
8.C.: Instead of making a laborious
poem of it, put the information
plainly like this: “The river is flow-
ing as usual and reflecting the trees
which overhang it nicely. When the
wind blows, the branches make an
agreeable rustling sound” R. 8.:
Can’t allow you to dump your grief
here....A.D.: You have most suc-
cessfully concealed your meaning.
With blazing eyes
A Persian cat
Pounced on a snake
As it would a rat.
The horrid reptile
Did hiss and sway,
But failed to keep
Its foe at baiy.
Swift and grim was
The fatal combat;
Lifeless lay the
Reptile and cat.


******* - *HOOTI«<? ~ VAC
OR
IK
STORM PROOP
If FULLY GUARANTEED V s
I LIGHTS EVERY TIME j
\ Available at all leading /
'tobacconists and stores (
'■/ Australian Agents: \_...
crtUKS - GOiflNO ~ MPT»«IKfi|
Maurice Newstead Pty. Ltd., Sydney.
Leonard F. Newstead Pty. Ltd., Melb.
SMOKERS
PIPE TOBACCOS THAT ARE
BLENDED TO GIVE
SATISFACTION TO ALL.
HOUSE OF MURPHY. A blend of
the highest grade of leaf to give a
cool smoke of satisfaction that men
prefer. 22/- per lb. Posted.
A.A.A. HIIiUXOP. A blend of
Australian, American and African.
20/- per lb. Posted.
WINSTON READY RUBBED
CIGARETTE TOBACCO. Greatly
improved by better blending of
mature leaf. 24/- per lb. Posted.
Special Quotes to Retailers for lots Wlb.
weight or over.
Write to: Cash Order Dept.,
Hillman Trading Co.,
Commercial Road, Brisbane.
Postage paid on Cash with order.
Postage extra on C.O.D. Orders.
STOP
Rupture
your
Worries?
Mark ® locaHan
of YOUt? RUPTURE
The new Roussel
enables you to work
with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition
necessary for im-
provement or re-
covery. Recommend-
ed by thousands.
Call or send stamp for details, self-
measurement form and U, Days’ Free
Trial Offer. No obligation.
ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO FRANCIS MOLONEY late of Mosman
and Bronte Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that
GLADYS LEILA WALTHAM MOLONEY
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1677
of 1949 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney on or before the 17th day of October
1949 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from MESSRS. CLIFTON
R. PENNY & DAVIES, Solicitors, 81
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—(l.s.) J.
DOUGHAN, Acting Registrar in Divorce.
WORKS OF
ART. TIME and NATURE
79
m
SUPERFINE
WINES
km oil
lirnii F~i i
0
JSCAT
sweet* sherß*
avrrras
PRODUCED BY
The Berri Co-op. Winery & Distillery Ltd.
AX
Berri, South Australia
N.S.JV. Agents:
HARRISON & ATTWOOD Pty. Ltd., Sydney
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S RED MILL RUM.
The best part of 2000 years ago
the poet Virgil declared:
“The Bay is always counted good,
So likewise is the Grey.”
Backing that opinion, the ancient
Roman would have added to his
store of shekels at Moorefield on
Saturday, where the greys Denali and
Granite fought out the finish of the
£3OOO Winter Handicap, and Susan,
another of the pallid hue, cleaned
up a bunch of fillies and mares in
the Brighton Mixed Stakes. As well,
other winners in Citadel (by Roger-
stone Castle) and Foxzami (by
Nizami) are sons of grey stallions.
Originally scheduled for seven fur-
longs, the distance of the Winter
Handicap was altered to a mile with
the meeting transferred from Rose-
hill to Moorefield. A quaint legend
perpetuated in Sydney racing circles,
despite any quantity of evidence to
the contrary, is that of the so-called
“hard” Moorefield mile. Certainly
it looks hard—uphill from the start,
round a curve for the first couple
of furlongs, a steep uphill back-
stretch, then a sharpish turn into a
downhill straight. But how fre-
quently is this “hard” mile run and
won by horses lacking credentials at
a mile?
Prior to Saturday Denali had won
nine races—the longest a 7-furlongs
event and most of them 6-furlongs.
This may have accounted for the
bookies treating themselves to a
thrashing on Saturday, when they
liberally gambled against Denali, who
started favorite at 7 to 2 after as
much as 9 to 2 had been laid; and
some thumping bets were collected
at those odds.
Making a conspicuous pair, Denali
and Granite raced close together most
of the way. With Sheba doing the
early pacemaking, the two light greys
were about midway back in a tight-
bunched field. They had moved up to
be prominent turning for home, and
ran on to pass the judge with Denali
winning by two and a half lengths.
There were actually three greys in the
field. The other, Grey Nurse, fell as
they entered the straight, and inter-
fered with the veteran Homeleigh
Dick, who may then have been un-
lucky to finish only third.
While Saturday’s was Denali’s first
win at a mile it may not be his last,
notwithstanding the dubious value of
the Moorefield mile as a test. A son
of Roxborough-Tinagroo, Denali has
shown himself a solid, game and con-
sistent galloper. Certainly his breed-
ing suggests stamina. Roxborough
was a fairish performer and is a son
of Pantheon, sire of the dual Mel-
bourne Cup-winner Peter Pan.
Denali’s dam, Tinagroo, is by Wal-
lace’s son, Mountain King, who won
the two Derbies and two St. Legers
in the 1907-08 season.
The perseverance of those who had
made Foxzami a red-hot favorite at
his two previous runs, despite his
sporting a girth of which a Lud
Mayor would have been proud, was
rewarded when the Nizami colt
cleared away with Saturday’s Moore-
field Handicap (10f.). Starting from
the rails position, Foxzami was well
placed all the way, moved up to lead
clearly passing the Leger, and won
by a length from the very fast-finish-
ing Titanic; Doughnut ran third.
Still looking more than comfortably
plump, Foxzami covered the trip in
2.7, lopping a second off the race
record, and getting within a second
of Cavedweller’s course record, which
has stood since 1930.
Battling it out for a first prize of
£591, two colts who together cost
5300 guineas as yearlings provided a
rousing finish in the Two-year-old
Handicap. Citadel (2000 guineas)
showed gameness to beat Clive (3300
guineas) by a half-head. After doing
the pacemaking, Citadel was joined
by Clive in the final furlong and
actually headed, but he came again
with rare determination. Clocking
1.16, Citadel (A. Stead) lowered the
race record by 2sec. The owners of
both these fine-looking chestnut colts
should have a fair chance of recoup-
ing the big prices they paid for them.
Citadel, Denali and Foxzami were
all favorites, and Sea Serpent was well
backed at threes to beat the equal
favorites Anthelion and Tamasha in
the Welter; giving apprentice-rider
D. Armstrong his first winner, Sea
Serpent led all the way. Better results
for the books were the successes of
High Spirits (R. Selkrig) at 7 to 1
in the Rockdale Mixed (10f.); Susan,
as mentioned, at 10 to 1; and Dusty
Miller (Mr. E. Coates) at 16 to 1
in the Corinthian Cup.
There was a crowd of 20,000-odd
at Moorefield, and 20,000 at Moore-
field is about as comfortable as
90,000 at Randwick. The S.T.C. has
wisely switched to Canterbury for its
£5OOO Cup meeting next Saturday,
though attendances at other courses
on recent transportless Saturdays
suggest that the club might have
done just as well to stick to the
original venue —Rosehill.
* * * *
In 1892, having previously won the
Grand National Hurdle in 1889, Red-
leap won the Australian Steeple with
13.12, the G.N. Hurdle with 11.12
and the G.N. Steeple with 13.3. All
round, a performance which more
than justifies the V.A.T.C. in naming
a race after that fine jumper. How-
ever, had the gallant animal been
able to witness at Caulfield on Satur-
day the running of the Redleap
Steeplechase, named in his honor,
he’d surely have shuddered in em-
barrassment. , Topweight with 10.4
was the favorite Briar, and he,
together with the . equal second-
favorites Walladale and Dunky, plus
four others at longer odds, failed to
complete the course of 2 miles 3 fur-
longs.
Walladale pulled up early in the
piece. Briar went west at the second
fence in the straight. Dunky finally
went down at the 7-furlongs mark
after his rider (S. Haag), by splendid
horsemanship, had averted disaster at
at least three successive fences. Red
Rambler, Formidable, Borambola Lad
and Tanakee dotted the course at
intervals. Giving a faultless exhibi-
tion of clean jumping, the Adelaide
performer Port Phillip cleared away
with the race, winning by half-a-dozen
lengths from Lord Minto and
Autocles. The six-year-old Precentor
gelding Port Phillip should be able
to take fences in his stride—he’s a
huge fellow, standing no less than
18 hands. Port Phillip was ridden
by B. R. Smith, who now shares,
with L. Meenan, the lead in the cross-
country riders’ premiership.
For a horse which won the Aus-
tralian Hurdle last year in record
time, carrying 12.1, Latani seems
exceptionally well in this year with
11.13, and his performance under
12.3 in Saturday’s Leamington Hurdle
showed that he is fit for the fray.
The 12-to-l chance Fairy Fable (J.
Kennedy), with 9.12, staged a go-to-
whoa win in the Hurdle, but Latani,
after being right out of the running
early, and still a distant seventh in
a field of 13 at the half-mile, finished
like a shot to gain second place
ahead of the favorite Niblik. Both
Niblik and the second-favorite Full
Moon spoiled their chances with poor
efforts at the last jump but one.
After the running of the Leamington,
stewards opened and adjourned an
inquiry into the performance of
Latani, who, incidentally, was having
his first run over the jumps for nine
months.
Although he is not at the top of
the list in this year’s premiership,
there are few better riders in the
game than Ron Hutchinson. He
turned in yet another sterling bit of
horsemanship to land the Murrum-
beena Handicap (12f.) on the Sydney
horse Stamen, who started favorite
at fours. The race was virtually won
in the first furlong, when a bit of
swift action by Hutchinson gained a
box seat on the rails after he had
seemed likely to be chopped right
out to the tail of the field. Turning
into the straight Saxonian and Hen-
ley looked the possibles; then Stamen
came home with a rattling run, and,
following Stamen through, the out-
sider Doughboy also finished ahead
of Saxonian, Henley running fourth.
With the Australian Hurdle in mind,
Chatsol ran an excellent race.
The Adelaide-owned and New Zea-
land-bred Royal Pharos, one of the
prettiest colts sighted this season,
gave a performance in accord with
his looks to win the 7-furlongs Lilli-
mur Handicap for two-year-olds. At
Moonee Valley the previous week,
over a furlong-shorter course, he had
finished a close fourth after “being
down on his nose at the start. Then
he was a 2-to-l favorite, but punters
allowed him to go out at fives in the
Lillimur. Ridden by S. Ralph, Royal
Pharos led throughout to beat On
Time by two lengths; finishing better
than either, Black Don was third.
Helping his sire Helios further on
the way to setting a record for stakes
won in a single season, the three-
year-old colt Derrymore (J. Purtell)
finished stylishly to win the Malvina
Welter with a real welter weight of
9.7. It was a thrilling three-horse
finish, with Lincoln and Mile End
both close up. Divisions of the
Kambrook Trial, in which at least
half the runners were more or less
unknown to Melbourne racegoers,
went to Golden Pippin (A. Burton)
and Proteje (R. Lindsay).
* * * *
For Canterbury (before accept-
ances): —
Two-year-old: Golden Tan, 1;
Clive, 2; Purple Prince, 3. Three-
and Four-year-old: Comedy Chief,
1; Valiant Crown, 2; Snowstream, 3.
Ashbury Mixed (6f.): Susan, 1; High
Spirits, 2; Torri, 3. S.T.C. Cup:
Titanic, 1; Foxzami, 2; Hurry Up, 3.
Flying: Blue Diamond, 1; Meteor,
2; Star Vite, 3. Welter: Prince
Charleroi, 1; Tamasha, 2 ; Lyndale, 3.
* * * *
Amidst profound silence from the
recently vociferous critics of the
photo.-finish gear, the camera
has recorded several dead-heats in
Sydney recently. If, as some of the
critics claimed, the camera did favor
the horse on the outside, a horse on
the inside would need to actually win
by about a neck before the camera
would show it as having dead-heated ;
and in that case the camera wouldn’t
be called on.
All the nonsense about the camera
favoring the outside horse in photo-
finishes isn’t a purely Australian form
of squealing through the pocket.
Punters at London’s White City grey-
hound track voiced the same plaint
until the authorities pretty effectively
squashed the notion by installing
identical gear on both sides of the
track at the winning-line. The result
was as could be expected by anyone
not biased by having backed a loser.
* * * *
Features of Australia’s first bout
en route to the Davis Cup were the
very exc llent performances of young
Frank Sedgman and the equally poor
efforts of Sidwell, who was entrusted
with the other singles. Against
Canada, Sidwell opened proceedings
by going down in five sets to Bren-
dan Macken, 6-3, 5-7, 3-6, 7-5, 6-8.
Sedgman equalised by beating Rochon
6-4, 6-2, 6-2, and the Australians
took the lead when Sedgman-Brom-
wich licked Macken-Stohlberg 6-3,
6-2, 6-2. In an effort to save the
situation the Canadians then brought
on their fourth man, Lome Main,
for the second singles, but Sidwell,
though still playing poorly, beat Main
8-6, 6-4, 4-6, 6-1; Sedgman easily
disposed of Macken 6-2, 6-2, 6-0.
Australia will next meet Mexico, and
the winner of that match plays the
winner of Italy v. France, which was
in full swing in Paris as this page
went to press.
* # * *
The Yugoslav Soccer team’s first
Australian match v. N.S.W. at Sydney
Showground on Saturday was pre-
ceded by a rather bad blue in the
protocol department when the band,
after doing the honors to “God Save
the King,” then cut loose with its
version of the Yugo National An-
them. Unfortunately, they hoed into
the old Royalist anthem instead of
the one now decreed by Marshal Tito.
A pity Doc Evatt wasn’t on hand to
seize the baton and change the tune
in mid-chord. However, the Yugs
evened the score by presenting our
blushing huskies with bunches of
roses, and then proceeded to prove
far too hot for them in any case.
Yugoslavs the winners, 3-1.
* * * *
There seems to be no stopping
Gordon in the Sydney Rugby Union
competition. Victims on Saturday
were the Manly men, beaten 14-3.
In other matches Randwick played
very cleverly to outmanoeuvre Eastern
Suburbs, 10-6; University brought a
little science to bear on Eastwood,
34-14; Norths scraped home against
Wests, 16-13; and St. George (27)
left Drummoyne (5) still grimly
clutching the wooden spoon.
* * * *
A definite “four” emerged in the
V.F.L. after Saturday’s games —
Carlton, Collingwood, North Mel-
bourne and Melbourne —and four
others have a chance —Fitzroy, Essen-
don, Geelong, Richmond. North v.
Richmond was the “match of the
day,” the Tigers being expected to
slog their way through North. But
North also slogged, were faster and
trickier, and had 17.11 to 8.24 at
the finish. Carlton ambled about the
Glenferrie ground, just keeping ahead
of Hawthorn and ending it with 9.17
to 8.5 to hold their place on top.
Out at Footscray the locals, who’ve
played the most astonishing and in-
consistent football in the League,
went kick for kick and goal for
goal with Melbourne and got there
by two points, 11.8-10.12, when
Templeton snapped a sixer on the
bell. There were no beg-pardons
between the old rivals, Collingwood
and Fitzroy, and when ’Roy lost Hart,
the star forward, the Magpies gained
the day with 11.15 to 10.11. Gee-
long walloped “Sowth,” 14.13-11.15,
and Essendon ruthlessly booted 13.17
to St. Kilda’s 9.10.
* * * ♦
Melbourne featherweight Danny
Hirsch (B.Hi) made things very lively
for the much slower and less polished
Ray Haggett (8.11) at Leichhardt. At
a conservative estimate Hirsch won
11 of the 12 rounds to receive a
for-once-popular decision.
* * * *
Jack Read mourns the paleface:
With aboriginals Elley Bennett,
Alfie Clay, Jack Hassen and Dave
Sands dominating the Australian
pugilistic scene at the moment, one
wonders whither have migrated the
white Australian mitt-wielders. Aussie
palefaces have been prominent as
champions since 1913, when Jerry
Jerome beat Arthur Cripps for the
middleweight title. But now Bennett
is our bantam ruler, Clay looks good
enough to beat Eddie Miller for the
fedder title, which in any case Miller
has forfeited by his prolonged absence
abroad, Hassen rates as uncrowned
lightweight champion, and Dave
Sands holds the middle, light-heavy
and heavyweight titles.
* * * *
About as old as the Marquess of
Queensberry rules is the stunt of a
pug backing himself well and then,
if he looks like losing the fight, de-
liberately fouling his opponent. Foul
decision —all bets off. There was
quite an epidemic of such tactics in
Australia not so many years back.
In Britain, however, where boxing is
controlled by a commission, they have
an effective method of dealing with
this crafty lurk. They whack the
offender one in the solar with a
thumping fine.
* * * *
The New Zealand Boxing Council
last week announced that, in future,
one-eyed fighters will be barred from
the ring. Some experiences suggest
that it might be a good notion to
extend the ban universally to include
referees similarly afflicted.


dfg
Write for
particulars
"SIRIUS'
MINOR
DUMPY
LEVEL
For contour level-
ling, irrigation and
drainage, etc. High-
quality instruments
for immediate de-
livery. Complete
with case and tripod,
£2B/12/-.
Also Abney Levels, Pris-
matic Compasses, Op-
tical Square, General
Survey and Drafting
Requirements.
dfdf
gdf
AND,SONS
pt.y.ltd.
42 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY. 8W8631.
The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
grinder discs—recommended for shearing-shed work.
m
; r
m
40z., Boz., 160 z., 1 gallon sizes ... Hardware and general stores.
iL
m
Our ~
50,000
E ngine
Recently we produced
our 50,000 th engine.
The achievement was
something more than the
attainment of a high pro-
duction figure. In the 44
years which have elapsed since that day, in 1904,
when the first Ronaidson-Tippet Engine was produced,
the name of Ronaldson-Tippett has been established
as that of a leader in the Industry.
FOUNDED on the idea of
building power units
of unquestioned dependabil-
ity and nurtured on the
ideal of serving foithfuiiy ;
the needs of the Australian
people, Ronaldson-Tippett
Engines are to-day, the fin-
est expression of power unit
engineering it is possible
to buy.
RONALDSON BROS.
& TIPPETT LTD.,
df
Head Office: Ballarat, Victoria. Showrooms:
628 Bourke St., Melbourne. N.S.W. Dist’rs:
Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett, Ltd., Frazer House,
42 Bridge St., Sydney. Q’land Dist’rs: Ronald-
son Tippett (Qld.) Pty., Ltd., Scottish Union
House, 127 Eagle St., Brisbane,
RONfILDSON-TIPPETT
•ENGINES*
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO GRAZCOS."
Dips—Ancient and Modem.
“Bungaree”: Several reports
on work by the C.S.I.R. in test-
ing dipping fluids on external
parasites give a well-balanced
comparison of the value of \he
new insecticides. These have
been tested in the laboratory
and in the field on the same
lines and under the same con-
ditions as the older arsenical
and phenolic dips, and the find-
ings are illuminating.
Chief external parasites of
sheep are the ked (commonly
known as the sheep-tick) and
the body-louse. Others include
foot-louse, itch-mite and another
type of louse that appears only
in certain defined localities and
under certain seasonal condi-
tions, but the ked and the body-
louse are the most widely distri-
buted.
Arsenic in various forms has
been used for dipping sheep for
over a century. It had a num-
ber of defects; it is a poison,
and extreme care has to be ob-
served in its use. Above a cer-
tain concentration it will kill
sheep by skin-absorption, and
even at weak concentrations
through skin-cuts and if swal-
lowed by the when going
through the bath. Employees
engaged in dipping or jetting
sheep may also be affected, and
shearers are notoriously shy of
sheep jetted with arsenic.
C.S.I.R. experiments show
that arsenic at usual dipping
strength will kill body-lice, but
it has a much lower efficiency
against keds. A single dipping
will greatly reduce the keds,
particularly on sheep within a
week of being shorn, but the
dip did not affect the pupas or
eggs, and when these hatched
out there was not enough arsenic
remaining in the wool to kill
them. This justifies the conten-
tion that a second dipping in an
arsenical fluid within a month
of the first would be necessary
to clean up a ked infestation.
This failing was of late years
overcome by using a dip con-
taining derris or rotenone. This
alone was not successful against
body-lice, and the recommenda-
tion remains arsenic.. Many
arsenical dips incorporate
rotenone and have been widely
used in districts where both
parasites are encountered. One
dipping has wiped out all adult
keds, and the rotenone has per-
sisted in the fleece long enough
to kill the majority of pupa
hatching out, but, nevertheless,
a few survivors remained on a
proportion of the sheep—suffi-
cient to establish reinfestation.
Sulphur was tested, as it has
been used considerably (as lime-
sulphur) to control itch-mite,
and claims had been made on its
value as a killer of keds. Ex-
periments showed, however, that
it was practically valueless in
this regard. x
The use of phenols and tar-
acids, which has increased con-
siderably in Australia, was
“Them furrows are too close —spread your feet more!"
tested, and results showed a
good kill of adult keds but no
effect on pupa;, which hatched
out and carried on the infesta-
tion without apparent hindrance.
Guernseys and T.B.
E. J. Cranney, secretary,
Queensland branch of the
Guernsey Cattle Society:
“Heresone” (B. 15/6/’49)
says “There is probably more
work to be done in investigating
susceptibility to various diseases.
For example, some believe that
Guernseys are unduly suscept-
ible to t.b,, which may account
for their decline in popularity
here.” For the benefit of
“Heresone” and others who
may so “believe” I give figures
of t.b. tests in the Maleny area
and surrounding districts.
Of 1021 pure Guernseys
tested only 15 were reactors, a
very small percentage of 1.5.
Around Gayndah and Degilbo
over 400 were tested for t.b.
There was not one reactor!
These are but two areas tested,
but I have no doubt that tests
taken anywhere would give
much the same results.
The society’s veterinary officer
has done a lot of t.b. testing,
and it is his experience that
there is a smaller percentage of
t.b. reactors among Guernseys
than among any of the dairy
breeds he has tested.
As for the alleged “decline”
in popularity of the Guernsey,
let me say that for the year end-
ing June, 1948, Queensland
branch of the society had ta
membership of 31. To the end
of this financial year the mem-
bership is 53, an increase of
over 66 per cent, for the year.
It is only the shortage of cattle
for sale that stops the society
from having a much greater
membership,
Topdresser with Wings.
“Tiki Tapu”: Field trials of
aerial topdressing in the Wai-
rarapa district of New Zealand
proved successful. Aircraft
were readily adapted to carry
and discharge satisfactory loads
of superphosphate and other fer-
tilisers, and striking accuracy in
spreading was achieved. Hill-
country farmers are hopeful of
getting extensive areas top-
dressed as ordinary R.N.Z.A.F.
peace-time training; on the
other hand the Air Force looks
forward to being remanned and
re-equipped partly as a result of
these operations.
In the preliminary trials the
R.N.Z.A.F. designed and fitted
an experimental fertiliser-hopper
of one ton capacity to a Grum-
man Avenger (torpedo-bomber-
fighter) and evolved a system of
ground control to ensure ac-
curate placement of the ferti-
liser. Modifications, including
addition of a high-frequency
vibrator to ensure rapid dis-
charge, were made as a result of
three separate field trials in
which distribution was measured
and flying technique adapted to
hilly terrain.
Suitable double-screener “hill-
side” super. (44.46 p.c.) which
passes fin.-diameter sieves and
is retained on -diameter
sieves was specially prepared by
arrangement with the fertiliser
people. Distribution of this
super, was found to vary be-
tween 2cwt. and 2{cwt. per acre
when runs were made 90ft.
apart, flying at 400 ft. above
ground at 120 m.p.h., but height,
speed and width of swathe were
modified to suit the varying
terrain.
Mitchell-grass Hay.
“Atlanta”: On Collwell
Station, McKinlay (n.-w. Q.),
they’re mowing and storing
Mitchell-grass hay with 6ft.
mowers, side-delivery rakes and
a baler turning out seven to
eight tons per hour, A tractor
pulls mowers and rakes and
another pulls the baler.
Initial cost is high, and the
hay machinery is idle for most
of the year, though the tractors
are used for other station work.
The hot, dry climate makes it
possible to rake the Mitchell-
grass into windrows as soon as
it is cut; it dries so quickly.
The country is Mitchell-grass
downs, sparsely timbered with
gidyea and patterned with
creeks. Mitchell, Flinders and
button are the predominant
grasses; the latter makes excel-
lent hay.
The country is rough, par-
ticularly on the Mitchell-grass
downs, but if the cutter-bars on
the mowers are set high trouble
is eliminated, though a little
grass is missed.
In most western Queensland
districts it is possible to make
at least half a ton of hay to the
acre in a normal season.
Properly cured, the nutritive
value of the grass is almost
wholly maintained.
The Critic’s Side.
“Central Coast”: Critics of
the Peak Downs sorghum pro-
ject have good grounds for
their views (B. 4/7/’49). Cen-
tral Queensland is not noted for
good seasons; evCn parts of the
coast have gone short of rain
during late years. Only reason
the inland was soaked this year
was a stray cyclone bearing
west —an unusual occurrence.
It is a well-known fact that
disturbance of the soil by farm-
ing activity increases the likeli-
hood of erosion. It is all right
killing the grass and working
the soil if you’re able to grow
a crop over the area. But it’s
murdering the soil if drought is
going to stop anything growing.
The critics foresee drought
hitting this inland farming pro-
ject. They foresee loosened top-
soil blown away by the winds
before grasses can take root to
hold it. Natural grasses, any-
way, are slow to reappear on
abandoned cultivations in dry
districts. But noxious weeds
run riot on old farm-land.
Critics envisage either a dust-
bowl or a noxious-weeds para-
dise unless the project is favored
by a run of good seasons.
Rice Yields Down.
“He - Ne”: Murrumbidgee
Irrigation Area yields this year
are down compared with last
season. From the whole of the
area the Rice Marketing Board
has received 40,500 tons of
grain, with about 2000 tons to
come. With an area of 27,033
acres under crop, this gives an
average yield of 1.57 tons per
acre or 31.4 cwt., a decrease of
approximately 7cwt. per acre on
the high average last year of
1.93 tons per acre. Harvesting
conditions this year were almost
ideal, and the harvest went
through practically without a
hitch. Clear, sunny days
allowed the machines to work
long hours, but the quick strip-
ping was responsible for a large
amount of grain having to be
stacked in the field during a
wet period.
At the Griffith end of the area
yields were down; those who
stripped three tons an acre last
year have only gathered tons
this year..
Crossbred Hens.
“K.T.”: They’re becoming
popular on commercial poultry-
farms. By far the most popular
is the Austra-White, produced
by mating White Leghorn cocks
to Australorp hens. Laying is
improved by extra vigor, the
birds are more robust and
mortality is reduced. When the
heavy cock is used the progeny
are strong and rugged, but they
are persistent broodies. Those
produced by using the heavy
cock are excellent for showmen
who depend on broodies for
their stock. They are often
much more dependable than the
pure heavy hens, not as clumsy,
and more active.
Two other crosses of note are
the White Leghorn male and
Rhode Island Red female, and
the newly - introduced New
Hampshire White Leghorn. It
must be remembered that careful
selection should be made of the
breeding stock or results will not
be satisfactory. Don’t breed
from the crossbreds; use them
only for layers. The pure birds
should be kept to carry on the
cross each season. Cockerels from
the crosses are ideal for market
and bring excellent prices.
Oil-dilution.
»
“Law”: Now that the petrol
for the tractor won’t be needed
for the utility farmers may un-
wittingly cut their repair bills.
The greatest killer of lubricat-
ing-oil in the kerosene tractor
is dilution. After 60 hours in a
tractor in good condition the
lubricating-oil is diluted by 6
p.c. of kerosene. Tractors
turned off petrol before they
are properly heated will, after
60 hours’ work, have at least
16 p.c. kerosene in their oil.
The damage that kero.-loaded
oil does to cylinder-walls and
bearings can be guessed.
The same degree of dilution
can be caused by a blocked
crankcase - ventilator. Dilution
can be reduced to 1 p.c, by
using a forced draught through
the crankcase, though it has
the disadvantage of partial
vaporisation of the oil. If a


Rural Distribution
TRANSFORMERS
are available for
short delivery
from
The English Electric Co.,
Ltd.,
131 York St., 189 William St.,
Sydney. Melbourne.
and agents in
Brisbane, Adelaide, Newcastle,
Hobart, Perth.
£
70
T 2
9v)Kßl*rt"
K 3
THE HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
The self-contained, self-emptying
Sanitary System.
Est. 1927.
Imitation is Sincere?! Flattery
Beware of imitations similar in appear-
ance but lacking the internal patent
which makes the Hygeia Dissolvenator
so efficient.
Intending purchasers are invited to in-
vestigate the integrity of the Hygeia
Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd., the bona tides of
the Hygeia Dissolvenator, as well as the
value and scope of the Hygeia Guarantee
compared with any other guarantee.
The Hygeia Guarantee includes 7 years
against corrosion.
Let the record of the 12,000 Dissol-
vonators sold during the past '22 years
be your guide—do not be misled by
specious statements.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 20 years.
DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W. : Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Queensland: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Qld.),
609 Colonial Mutual Building, Queen
St., Brisbane. <
Victoria: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Vic.)
Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
South Australia: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co.,
(S.A.), Edment’s Building, Bundle
St., Adelaide.
Western Australia; R. P. Mclnerney &
Co., Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
Tasmania ; Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd., Laun-
ceston and Hobart.
Darwin: C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales
and Services.
For Sale.
LIMBING TOMATO, bears a whole
year, yields 2001 b.; has 20ft. runners
loaded with large red tomatoes. Disease
and drought resistant. Sensation in
America. 2/6 pkt. posted.
N.S.W. SEED CO., Kurnell, Sydney.
N
KM.li.fP.
• Behind every bale of your
, wool lie years of courageous
planning and effort.
A.M.L.&F. realise this. That’s
why they give your hard-
earned wool the same
personal care and supervision
as you would yourself, and
that’s why you can be sure of
the best possible price when
you send your clip to
A.M.L.&F.
86 Years in the Service of the Man on the Land
INC. IN ENGLAND. 1863. azs.42
AUSTRALIAN. MERCANTILE; LAND & FINANCE COY. LTD.
4 HUGH STREET. SYDNEY
AND AT MELBOURNE AND BRISBANE.
Country Brandies —N.S.W.: Newcastle, Wagga, Henty, Hay, Cowra,
Scone, Moree, Garab, Wee Waa, Brewarrina. Q’ld: Townsville,
Cliarlevijle, St. George, Cunnamulla, Dlrranbandi. Assoc. Agents:
McPhle & Co. Pty., Ltd., Toowoomba, Oakey, Dalby and Pittsworth.
“HANDY HINTS FOR THE FARM”
Embracing Wheat, Sheep, Cattle, Pigs, Poultry, Horses, Fruit
and Vegetable Growing, the Apiary and General Farm Activity.
Price 1/- from Newsagents, or 1/2-1 posted from
Bulletin Office, 252 George Street, Sydney,
Commonwealth of Australia
FEDERAL LAND TAX RETURNS
Returns of land held at midnight on 30th June, 1949, are required to be
lodged on or before Slst August, 1949.
Land Tax returns must be submitted by persons resident in the Commonwealth
when the total unimproved value of land held is £4OOO or over, and by or on
behalf of absentees where the unimproved value is £1 or over.
Where land holdings have altered in any way since 30th June, 1948, Form “C”
should be used. Where no change has taken place a declaration (Form “CA”) to
that eifect is sufficient.
The unimproved value to be returned is that as at 30th June, 1939. For Land
Tax purposes values are pegged at this date.
Where land is held in more than one State returns should be forwarded to the
Deputy Federal'Commissioner of Taxation, Box 7690, G.P.0., Melbourne. Forms of
return and full information may be obtained at the principal Post Offices or at Federal
Taxation Office, 3rd Floor, Savings Bank Building, 21/23 Elizabeth Street, Sydney-
Postal address Box 4046, G.P.0., Sydney.
Penalty for late lodgment: 10 p.c. additional tax —minimum £l.
Penalty for failure to lodge returns: £lOO.
Note: Perpetual Crown Leases which are not subject to revaluation or which have
he right of purchase must be included in the return.
W. A. PERT, Deputy Commissi aer of Land Tax.
Insure against DROUGHT
mm
IW»
m
m
;.:
ym
DELIVERY
IMMEDIATE
500 bag capacity (1500
bushels) height 18 feet,
diameter 11 ft. 6 in. Price
in 1 8-gauge steel, £ 225/-/-.
In 16-gauge steel, £251/5/-.
1000 bag capacity ( 3000
bushels) height 21 ft. 4 in.,
diameter 16 ft. 8 in. Price
in 18-gauge steel, £405.
All prices ex factory
Adelaide. Mast and block
not provided. Crating extra,
Be sure of carrying your stock during drought periods by installing Goldsbrough
Grain Silos NOW! Being all-steel, they provide protection against all weathers
and are vermin-proof. The illustration shows an actual installation of two 500-
bag Goldsbrough Silos. Write or call for full particulars to your nearest
Goldsbrough Mort Branch or Agent.
AND COMPANY LIMITED
(INC. IN VICTORIA)
BRANCHES AND AGENCIES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
tractor has its correct ration of
petrol before turning on the
kero, tap and still gets dilution
above normal, suspect the crank-
case-ventilator. One can’t dodge
dilution completely, and it will
always be in proportion to the
compression condition of the
block. No blow-by, under 6
p.c.; some wear in the cylinder,
10 p.c.; and in a worn engine
up to 20 p.c.
Honey.
“Myrr”: With a world-wide
demand for sweets, good prices
for honey should hold for
another year. Meantime
apiarists ought to organise the
home market —the most reliable
one. As world food supplies
gradually return to normal, with
a possible fall in prices, this
home market will again become
the main support.
Demand for honey during the
past few years has been greater
than the supply, and high
prices have been and are still
being paid for grades of honey
which, in pre-war days, would
have been unsaleable. Some of
our honey—redgum and yel-
low-box are examples—can be
classed among the best in the
world, but little of it in its pure
form ever reaches the market,
as it’s kept for blending with
low-grade honeys to make an
average-quality product. To in-
crease the home-market demand
consumers must be given a
choice of the finest grades.
This, of course, would mean a
variation in prices, the producer
of the finest grades being re-
warded for his skill and choice
of bee-pasturage.
The Udders of Cows.
“Rooster”:. Many exhibits in
the Sydney R.A.S. lost a num-
ber of points through distorted,
pendulous or flabby udders.
Many which appeared normal
when distended with milk
showed these faults when milked
out. Since the udders and teats
have a direct bearing on produc-
tivity, it is wise to watch for
these points when buying fresh
stock or in heifers calving-down
for the first time.
According to Dr. W. E. Peter-
sen, a world-renowned authority
on dairy-cow physiology, the
udder is a parasite on a host. It
is, of course, the production of
female hormones which causes
the udder to develop. It appears
that some cows don’t secrete
sufficient let-down hormone, and
this, a little while after calving,
causes them to slow down, with
consequent development of a
fleshy top portion and a soft
lower portion of the udder.
After three months they rapidly
..dry off. Such types are obvi-
ously not a paying proposition,
and it is wise to cull ’em out.
Dr. Petersen points out that
an udder with a level flow and
with no quartering drains out
best with machine - milking.
Judges also agree that pendulous
udders are unsightly and liable
to injury and mastitis. A good
udder is held compactly between
the legs by ligaments, and if
these are weak the udder is
likely to fall. Arteries enter the
udder from amongst these liga-
ments and supply the food on
which development depends.
Soap-making.
“Big Billy”: As an alternative
to using caustic soda the
C.S.I.R. recommends to “causti-
cise” sodium carbonate solution
with milk of lime. Dissolve the
sodium in hot water and slowly
add milk of lime while stirring
with a wooden paddle. Use two
gallons of sodium to one of
water. If washing-soda (the
hydrated form of sodium car-
bonate) is used 51b. 6oz. is re-
quired for one gallon of water.
To make milk of lime about 9oz.
of quicklime is necessary for
every pound of sodium car-
bonate.
First carefully slake with a
minimum amount of water and
then stir into a milky suspension
with more water. Keep the
sodium carbonate hot (about
185 deg. F.) while the milk of
lime is being added for an hour
thereafter and constantly stir it.
The whole operation should be
done in steel or enamelled ves-
sels. After an hour allow the
precipitated white particles of
calcium carbonate to settle and
pour off the caustic solution.
This is a solution of caustic
soda containing about llioz. of
caustic soda per pound of
sodium carbonate and may be
used for soap-making in the
ordinary way.
Hints for the Farm.
“Sundowner”: Where tuber-
moth is troublesome in stored
potatoes the tubers, particularly
the eyes or any scar or clearly-
marked depression, should be
dusted with arsenate-of-lead
powder or hydrated lime.
“Myrrhee”: When oats form
the biggest part of their diet, pigs
grow very slowly. A ton of the
cereal certainly hasn’t the same
pork-producing value as a ton
of wheat or barley, but in com-
bination with these grains (pro-
vided they’re crushed) oats make
a good substitute for pigs when
other grains are scarce or too
expensive for economical feed-
ing. Mix at the rate of one bag
of oats to two of wheat or
barley. This, combined with
separated milk or meat-meal, a
mineral lick and green feed, is a
good pig fattener.
“M.”: To kill the fluke-snail
dust pastures in low-lying areas
with a mixture of powdered blue-
stone and sand —251 b. of blue-
stone in 1001 b. of sand, sufficient
to treat one acre.
“Sarina”: A badly-worn or
-rusted rim is responsible for
short life in car-tubes. When
rims become rough and uneven
on the inside, or develop thin,
sharp edges, discard them before
they slit the tubes.
“Rooster”: Green peach
aphis, which caused consider-
able damage in the Goulburn
Valley last spring, is best dealt
with during winter by a spray
made up of tar distillate one to
35. Spraying should be com-
plete by mid-July.
“K.T.”: When breeding
poultry it is better for the cock
to be younger than the hens, but
the cock should be no less than
nine months old. Generally
speaking, the hen may be any
age as long as her eggs are
hatchable. The hen may not
lay many eggs if old, but the
few she does are very valuable
if she was a good layer as a
pullet. Immature pullets should
not be tolerated in the breed-
ing pen.
“Beau Forte”: Clogged
mufflers and exhaust-pipes are
a common cause of poor per-
formance on most types of in-
ternal-combustion engines. An
easy remedy is to tap along the
exhaust system with a light
hammer while the engine is run-
ning. This loosens the carbon,
which will be blown out by the
exhaust.
“Ben Acre”: Copper-covered
asbestos gaskets should be
soaked in water before being put
into the engine. Old gaskets can
be boiled. This softens them and
allows them to settle in tightly
and evenly.
“C.A.A.”: Mineral deficiency
in calves is usually largely over-
come when the animal starts
feeding on pasture, and will be
further overcome by a mineral
lick such as dicalcic phosphate,
bonemeal, or boneflour, one part
to four parts of salt. While the
calf is being bucket-fed the addi-
tion of lime-water to milk, one
dessertspoonful to one quart, is
helpful. Carron oil (mix equal
parts lime-water and raw lin-
seed-oil) may also be used.


Grime
does
not
Pay
Keep your
Engine Clean
with
A clean engine gives perfect
lubrication improved perform-
ance, longer engine life, quicker
starting and complete protection
at all speeds and temperatures.
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD.
MOBILOIL
M 492
* fi r,}
Yonr choice It CINZANO,
Vermouth, whether your taste is for
•weet or dry. CINZANO Vermouth
gives Just that extra exhilarating tang
to the palate.
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S NO.I CPU
The NO.I Drink
for wise men
“Domestic animals grow very like
their owners in disposition.”
—“New Idea."
Hence the sour puss, the dirty
dog, and the fair cow.
•b *b *b
The Baltic Sea will become a
Russian lake within the next two
years.”— Sydney “SunJ”
Its name will then be changed
to Crimson Lake.
•b *b *b
“Just beneath your present skin
lies a lovelier you!”
— Woman’s paper.
Just slough and be beautiful,
b b b
“A.L.P. cells are being secretly
formed in the Communist party.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
A move in the Right direction.
“Why do pretty faces and empty
heads so often go together?”
—Sunday paper.
Because they’re so much
attached to each other.
•b *b *b
“The fellow who cuts my hair is
out of work and is filling in time in
his garden.”— Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
It should be in good trim,
•b *b *b
“Blackouts might continue for
years.”— Daily paper.
“What
that?”
asks
baby in
alarm and fright.
“That fing up there
above the candle-
light!” Her daddy
flicks a leaf
from mem’ry’s
page; “That was a
light-bulb of
the Golden
Age.”
Her Main Support.
“In my business it’s not the family
tree that counts —it’s the limbs.”
—American strip-teaser.
There’s little doubt that nifty
limbs
Are what one needs to please the
whims
Of those who seek to part with
care
By watching girls achieve the
bare
And “ne plus ultra” minimum
Of clothing; yet it’s clear that
some
Attraction other than her arms
And legs must bolster up the
charms
Of one whose object is the
pleasing
Of clients with her subtle
teasing;
And though a lass’s ancestry
Need boast no aristocracy
This tree idea is not all bunk,
For limbs must presuppose a
trunk.
BERT.
No Embarrassment.
“I am sure,” said the in-
quirer, “that at this particular
time, Mr. Chifley, you would
wish to elaborate on some of
those things with which you, as
the head of our Socialist Gov-
ernment, have been so inti-
mately associated. Firstly, would
you care to expatiate on that
condition with which you have
so often proudly associated
your party; that high achieve-
ment of yours which at this
very moment is making so many
workers happy and which is
destined to loom so large in the
Government’s propaganda at
the coming elections —I refer,
of course, to the term ‘full em-
ployment’ ”
Ben sucked slowly at his pipe
for almost a minute before there
came that familiar verbal flow,
, couched in those snappy, clipped
phrases of his which his fol-
lowers have justly claimed puts
him in the same class of famous
orators as “Schnozzle” Durante
and his own celebrated Knight
of the Golden Tongue, “Fixer”
Hashley, and which have
switched off more radio knobs
than the Andrews Sisters and A 1
Jolson combined.
“Well,” he said modestly,
“that was really Doctor Evatt’s
phrase. You’ll remember he
brought it up quite a lot at
U.N.0., and even more when
he visited Australia —in fact,, he
brought it up so much he made
everyone in Cabinet almost
bring something up. But his ad-
vocacy of it at Lake Success
miist have done a power of
good. I believe that since his
championship of it Tristan da
Cunha has also achieved full
employment—the whole twenty-
eight of them. Full employment
is one of our biggest successes.”
“And what about the famous
dictum, set out so boldly in your
last election campaign, Mr.
Chifley, that only a ‘Labor’ Gov-
ernment could get the coal-
miners to mine coal?”
“Yes, and no truer words
have ever been spoken. The
whole nation knew that under
a Gtivverment led by minions of
the bloated capitalists the miners
would have staged a big strike,
and nobody could have blamed
them. We got them to mine
coal, and if anyone doesn’t be-
lieve we succeeded let them go
up to the coalfields and see for
themselves that every miner has
at least five tons of free coal in
his backyard. And how could
they have got that if they hadn’t
mined it under a ‘Labor’ Guv-
verment? Anyone who doesn’t
accept that is one-eyed and
prejudiced against a workers’
Guvverment.”
“There’s another thing you
may care to tell us about, Mr.
Chifley. You and your party
have emphasised from time to
time that under ‘Labor’ a de-
pression is an absolute impossi-
bility. With all major industries
almost completely paralysed for
a month, half a million workers
—nearly three times the num-
ber of the nineteen-thirties —un-
able to earn any wages, and
with all the nation’s feverish
activity concentrated in soup-
“Can you mend a fuse ?”
kitchens and unemployment-
relief offices, would you still
contend that the conditions now
operating bear no resemblance
to a depression?”
“None whatever,” said Ben
firmly, or with as near to firm-
ness as he could possibly get.
“I am assured by my depart-
mental experts, for, instance, that
lottery-offices are still being well
patronised, and that bookies are
still able to run their latest
Buicks and Hudsons and their
yachts. Does that sound like a
depression? Nor have I heard,
notwithstanding that we haven’t
granted ourselves a salary-
increase for almost a year
now, of any of my col-
leagues in Parliament having
to mortgage his humble mansion
or pay to go and see a stadium
fight. Does that suggest a de-
pression? Besides, in the
nineteen-thirty depression the
unemployed were put on shovel-
ling sand. We haven’t asked
them to do that —we’d have to
import the shovels first —there’s
no steel to make them here.”
“And you remember, Mr.
Chifley, how you and your col-
leagues have often referred to
the dole as a device of the big
bankers to bring the workers to
slave conditions? You wouldn’t
describe as ‘the dole’ the £2 10s.
a week tens of thousands of
families have to try and live on
in place of the average wage of
eight pounds they’re being de-
prived of, would you?”
“Of course not! It would be
utterly misleading. Our party
has definitely defined it as Social
Security, and logically it can’t be
two things at once. Besides, in
nineteen-thirty they had virtu-
ally to scramble for it — we make
them queue up in an orderly
way.”
“Now about the Golden Age
*—you still believe it is with us?”
“Not only do I believe it, I
am perfectly convinced all of us
are enjoying it. What better
example can you have than the
P.M.G.’s department! Things
were quite anti-social when we
came to office. The execrable
profit-motive was being followed
and it was making as much as
a clear four million a year.
Under ‘Labor’ that has been
transformed into much the same
figures on the proper side of the
ledger—the real Golden Age
side. Yes, I have exactly the
same shining faith in the reality
of my Golden Age as I have
when, on every Christmas Eve,
I still hang my stocking up at the
foot of the bed. The fact that
I’m the only one in nearly eight
millions who still believes in the
G.A. makes me all the more con-
vinced that I’m right. For
further proof that it is here I
simply refer to the inescapable
fact that dolls’-eyes and railway
dogspikes are more plentiful
and less expensive than they
were during the Industrial Revo-
lution.”
“And now finally, Mr. Chifley,
just two other points: The re-
conciliation of your previously-
expressed refusal to ‘crucify the
workers’ with their present cruci-
fixion as a result of years of
your Government’s appeasing the
miners’ Communist leaders, and
the squaring of your advertised
avowal that the present strike is
a Communist conspiracy to
smash Democracy with your
stout refusal ‘to see treasonable
Communists as any but harm-
less followers of a certain poli-
tical philosophy?”
But by then the Bathurst Burr
had grabbed his hat and was
shooting through, “Excuse me,”
he said, “I just remembered-
I’ve got to see a dog about a
coalminer.”
Bo.
Giving-Himself-An-Air Male
“ ‘Families in which there are stamp-
collectors are more contented than
those in which there are none,’ says
a French psychologist.”
Sweet are the uses of philately
To propagate domestic harmony:
Whene’er connubial bliss seems
on the wane
My album proves an antidote to
pain,
Or if at times I feel the urge to
roam
It guides my errant footsteps
safely home ;
Regenerate now since first this
craze began.
I’m watermarked a priceless
stamp of man.
JEAN STANGER.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others 2id. per line.
“Freedom of Speech”
The reference in Lloyd Paul Stryker’s
life of Thomas Erskine (B. 29/6/’49) to
Erskine’s challenge in the famous
“freedom-of-speech” trials that the
Government was suppressing reform by
charging it as high treason —seems to
indicate that Mr. Stryker takes that view.
It was widely voiced by 19th-century his-
torians of Liberal outlook and is not un-
commonly repeated today.
The 20th-century historian, with ex-
perience of two world wars and of move-
ments like Nazism and Communism,
should show greater charity towards the
Government that had to wage war with
the French Revolutionaries who were as
bloodthirsty, as unscrupulous and as apt
in the use of Quislings and fifth-columns
as their modern counterparts. After
France declared war on England move-
ments ostensibly devoted to Parlia-
mentary Reform became very active in
British countries. Most of their leaders
showed an imprudent degree of sympathy
with the enemy and were most intem-
perate m criticism of British policy.
Revolutionary sympathisers had been
of material assistance to the invading
French armies in neighboring countries,
and Pitt was taking no chances. To what
degree these organisations were genuinely
devoted to their professed objects, or
were merely the vehicles for subversive
activities inspired by France, is now im-
possible to determine. It was natural for
the public to hold that they were what
they claimed to be, and that no harm
would have resulted from their spokes-
men enjoying peace-time freedom of
speech.
We, with our experience of the “fellow-
traveller,” should be more sceptical.
There was more interference with
freedom of speech—to say nothing of
other freedoms—in England in the last
two world wars than in the contest with
Revolutionary France. Indeed, in the last
war, both in England and Australia, a
number of people were clapped into jail
and kept there without even being
brought to trial. In some cases there
were definite miscarriages of justice.
On the other hand, those who fell foul
of the Government in the war with Revo-
lutionary France were tried according to
the proper forms of British law, and had
the services of an advocate as able and
as eloquent as Erskine. Some of them
were acquitted.— Castlereagh (N.S.W.).
Real Estate
Housing controls have been lifted in
Victoria except on farms. While they
were in force this was the big objection:
Jones would have a property for sale
at £1350, and on the sale being effected
the vendor would apply to a local-govern-
ment valuator for a Treasury valuation
for which a fee of £4 4s. would be paid.
The valuation when made would be, say,
£1360. On submission to the Treasury a
delay of about three to six weeks would
follow and then a decision: “In our
opinion the price asked is excessive and a
sale would be authorised at £1100.”
At no time would a Government valu-
ator from the Treasury inspect, and the
decision would be made by someone who
had never inspected the property ; also, a
decision contradictory to that of a paid
valuator of their own appointment.
Of course the vendor would not sell at
the lower figure, and the Law Institute in
its approach to the Victorian Govern-
ment stated that 75 per cent, of real-estate
transactions were “on the side.” Common-
sense now prevails in Victoria, the market
is free and with the exception of a few
spectacular sales the market is levelling
off.—H. I. B. S. (Vic.).
Privilege
Some laws in the Statute Book are
merely the vestigial remains of bygone
days; one of the most useless and ridi-
culous is that pertaining to Parliamentary
privilege. It may have functioned
healthily when the most acrimonious de-
bates were unheard beyond the walls of
the Chamber. In these days, when what
is whispered in Canberra is amplified
throughout the land, the privilege of
being allowed to utter untrue or libellous
statements without fear of punishment is
a legal anachronism.
“Poking peas in each other’s ears” has
always been the favorite pastime of
honorable members since party politics
became the fashion. Both sides were per-
mitted to talk with their tongue in their
cheek, invective was regarded as elo-
quence, and an occasional bare-knuckle
fight was excused as an expression of
high spirits.
It was never intended, however, that
elected persons should be enabled to
bring their verbal fisticuffs on to the
hearths of the electors. The law should be
amended to ensure that Parliamentary
speeches on the air are subject to the
same limitations as all other oratory. It
would be better still if privilege were
excised, and legislators compelled to
observe the established rules of debate
and the unwritten laws of decency and
order.
The law as it stands enables the House
to contravene the law of libel and reduce
its “procedure” to the level of Billings-
gate or Yarra Bank. —V. Appendix (S.A.).
Flat-tops
Can Australia afford the glamor of
two aircraft-carriers? In a country
ringed with air-bases and offering
virtually unlimited aircrew material, how
can it be sound policy to spend
on two extremely vulnerable craft of
barely moderate performance an amount
which could liberally equip and establish
a land-based air striking-force of top-line
performance and maximum mobility?
Defence of the world’s largest island
demands a degree of flexibility beyond
the scope of any. 30-knot, sea-confined
craft and facilities for deployment and
defence in depth far beyond the capacity
of two floating shells, the doom of either
of which could be sealed by one well-
placed bomb.
Our sagacious friends across the Pacific
have cut their carrier programme drasti-
cally, realising that their flat-top successes
in the Nippon War were attributable to
the fortuitous preoccupation of the Luft-
waffe elsewhere and the enemy’s resultant
dependence for air-defence on the pathetic
resorters to Kamikaze-ism who flung
themselves against the greatest navy in
history.
If we could follow the lead of the U.S.
we might, even at this late stage,* retrieve
a few of our eggs from the all-embracing
floating baskets upon which our security
is destined to rest. — T. E. Signal (Vic.).
Honey
“Don Drone” (B. 15/6/ ’49) says that
the Australian Honey Institute has some
dangerous weaknesses, such as a voluntary
levy. Well, the Institute believes that one
volunteer is better than 10 pressed men,
and, also, that the more education and
the less legislation we have in our indus-
try the better it will be for the honey-
producer. This is the first all-Australia
movement made by members of the honey
industry and, contrary to what “D.D.”
has to say about it, the A.H.I. expects
to grow from strength to strength as its
benefits are realised.
“D.D.” suggests a compulsory levy per
hive, but he doesn’t say how he would
collect it.
Publicity has been well considered, and
we are not putting the cart before the
horse. That unpalatable types of honey
are on sale in shops is not the fault of
the producer but of the packer. The influ-
ence of the A.H.I. should eventually
banish these types from grocers’
shelves. It might interest “D.D.” to
know that a co-operative publicity
campaign by the fresh-milk producers in
Brisbane some time ago trebled sales.
Markets other than the U.K. have not
been lost sight of. Large orders have had
to be turned down, mainly on account
of the shortage of containers.
Approximately 16,000,000 pounds of
honey are sold annually in Australia,
practically without publicity. With a sound
continuous publicity scheme sales should
keep on increasing. Our home market is
the best, and if consumption in Australia
could be boosted to that of New Zealand,
for instance, there would be no need to
worry about the London market or any
other.—E. E. (Q.).
Melbourne’s Pubs
“Ceg’s” remarks about the failure of
Melbourne’s pubs to provide accommo-
dation are timely and true, but it might
also be held that the city is woefully
short of good drinking-houses. With an
increase in Melbourne’s population of a
quarter of a million or more during the
last 20 years, the number of hotels in
the city area has decreased by about 20
per cent.
The Bull and Mouth jn Bourke-street
and Rubira’s near by, where food received
almost as much prominence as beer, were
razed to make way for two big chain-
stores. A few yards away at the Bourke-
Swanston-streets intersection, the Orient
passed when the old Collingwood firm
of Foy and Gibson made its bow to the
city.
A step down Swanston-street the
Queensland gave way to an “emporium,”
and the Exchange a few doors off (one of
the Richardson group) took the knock
to a bank. Another on the Flinders-lane-
Swanston-street corner suffered a similar
fate. Many others familiar to those who
did the pub crawl of a Saturday afternoon
in the early ’twenties have also gone, leav-
ing the city a virtually unpubbed area.
That, to my mind, has had most un-
fortunate effects on the drinking habits
of the modern Melburnian, and, whatever
the non-drinkers may say (which, no
doubt, would be plenty), Melbourne
would be a much more agreeable place
to drink in if it had twice as many hotels
in that part of the town bounded by
Lonsdale-, Queen-, Russell- and Fiinders-
streets. — Moyhu (Vic.).
Crown Rents
Rents of Crown lands in Queensland
are legally fixed on the unimproved value,
and for some time graziers have been
asking why their rents should be increased
because their carrying-capacity has been
increased by improvements —a legitimate
query. However, at sittings of the Land
Appeal Court in Maryborough the Court
said; “Rents of Crown lands are assessed
on the unimproved value of the lands
after considering potentialities for de-
velopment, that is, after considering the
adaptability of the lands to increase pro-
ductive capacity by an expenditure on im-
provements.”
A grazier would require the wisdom
of Solomon to know what his rent at the
next reappraisement is likely to be under
such a definition. It will certainly not
allay the suspicion that the Lands Depart-
ment is simply a rent-collector, and the
old Irish landlord had nothing on. it. If
the unimproved-value basis no longer per-
tains, the Act should be amended and
lessees would know where they stand. —
Outback (Q.).
Carlyle
I listened on the radio to a long, strident;
and sordid quarrel between a dyspeptic
husband and his neurotic wife. If the
characters represented had been fictional
the verbal display of family linen would
have been far from edifying, but they
were real people, who though dead were
yet made to speak again words and senti-
ments that should have been buried with
their bones. ,
Thomas Carlyle was one of the greatest
thinkers of all time. His writings had a
profound influence on the course of
literary and social history. He won the
admiration and affection of millions of
readers by his fearless exposure of shams
and his championship of truth. Like most
prophets he was despised for a season.
Even his clever wife failed to realise that
she had married a superman until Sartor
Resartus was belatedly recognised by the
world as a literary masterpiece.
The Victorians honored the brave pair
who had endured years of poverty in
order to achieve their mission. The pre-
sent frivolous generation knows not Teu-
felsdrockh, and apparently the only
memory they cherish of the Carlyles is
that they •sometimes quarrelled. In keep-
ing with the times, their radio portrait
mercilessly highlighted the “warts” in-
stead of accenting the more lovable and
admirable features of the heroic couple.
—Ugh (S.A.).
Sorghum No Eldorado
G. McLean, Coolum, Baralaba (Q.),
did not find grain-sorghum-growing a
goldmine, though Press and radio, com-
menting on the alleged success of the
socialistic sorghum venture at Peak
Downs, would lead us to believe that this
potential goldmine had remained un-
tapped until the socialistic planners got
on the job. With a good season’s rain
McLean decided to plant 182 acres, from
which he harvested 2500 bags. He had
no storage accommodation, and he was
unable to buy iron for a shed. He de-
cided to truck 500 bags away daily, but
the railways could give him only one
truck a week. After considerable agita-
tion he was promised assistance, and he
received up to three trucks some weeks.
With the railway unable to move his
product, he made inquiries about moving
it in his own lorries, and was told he
would have to pay 255.-per-ton tax,
against railway charges of only 17s. lid.
per ton.
McLean intended to grow 500 acres
of grain-sorghum next season, but un-
less he receives a guarantee that railway
trucks will be made available to trans-
port his crop he will have “to review the
position.” There is no shortage of rail-
way trucks to move the Socialist crop.
Meanwhile the mice and parrots grow fat
at Coolum. — Agric (Q.).
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 27
Across.
I—Depressed holiday-maker with a
tent in Victoria. (10)
s—Jump over the snow-shoe on the
piano. (4)
9 —One gets up with the flowers. (6)
10 —Birds nipped seabirds. (8)
12—Sound the horn and pass nothing
about a way that vicious people
fight. (5, 3,4)
14—Horseless East is in the minority.
(6)
16—He discovered a steel-making
process in the beer-mess. (8)
19—Bury one manuscript in the inter-
vals. (8)
21—Russian city kangaroo swallows a
a saint before five. (6)
24—Such food is required to see the
river-horse give thanks to its
digits. (4, 8)
28 — Acacia steamer has no power. (8)’
29 — It is material to add nothing to
the total on the way back. (6)
30 — Returning stopper is to swallow
eagerly. (4)
31 — Supremacy like 100 in the French
ball. (10)
(CRYPTIC TYPE.)
(Solution in next issue.)
Down.
1— One of 24 across is to transfix
the spirits making an interjec-
tion. (8, 2)
2 Wet one in the largest quantity.
(5)
3 Soon. (3-4)
4 The cries of horses go west with
the offspring of stallions and she-
asses. (8)
6 It produces coal that might
sound edible to an Indian. (5)
7 Pole provides mail for a Sydney
conductor. (4)
8— Pelts sanctify the singles. (6)
11—Bashful Aunt Sally. (3)
13—State of being preponderant
before the combining power of
an element. (10)
15 —Container upset a louse's egg. (3)
17 — Floor covering. (3)
18 — Produces a raised pattern that
upsets me before the employers.
(8)
20 —Rhode Island pianissimo on the
French wave. (6)
22 — Nothing fat is full, clear and
musical in speech. (7)
23 — Tree bark in the sheet of water
when dogs howl. (3)
25 The Spanish in the furnace
tavern? (5)
26 — Law-giver goes alone to the
North. N (5)
27 — South gets a toupee in a draught.
(4)
Solution to Crossword No. 26.


TO Wt¥i EVERY ENGINEERING NEED
OffEßi
The “ATLAS’
8-In Long-Bed
Lathe
An ideal High-Speed. General.
Purpose Workshop Lathe with
Internal Unit Drive. 2-speed Gear.
Box. Hollow Spindle and Swing*
through Gap. (FOR IMMEDIATE
<
DELIVERY).
I
R
tiTW'lf
■
A
V
/
The “MARS”
16ft. overall length lor Surfacing
Sliding and Screw-cutting.
(EARLY DELIVERY).
Licensed Manufacturers in Queensland
of “MEEHANITE” IRONS
The “MARS”
11-in Lathe
Precision-built with removable
'Mars" twin speed overhead
unit 1 drive. (EARLY DELIVERY).
// //
The “MARS’*
10-ln Lathe
Precision Ground Lathe Bed.
Overhead Twin Speed Gear-box
Drive. 18 Speeds. Removable
, Gap. Maximum Swing, 29 inches,
(EARLY DELIVERY).
The “MARS” No. 4
Universal Milling
Machine ,
■Rapid Power Traverse in all
directions. Integral, Electrical and
Coolant Systems. Magnetic Fil-
tered Force-feed Lubrication. The
only Universal Milling Machine
commercially made in Australia.
Mars Machine Tools carry a 12-month Guarantee against faulty materials or workmans]
Outstanding features of “Mars''
Machine Tools are:
1. TEST CHART, showing
tolerances against Schle-
singer standards, supplied
with each machine.
2. BALANCE—AII neces-
sary revolving parts are
Dynamically Balanced.
3. FINISH All surfaces
are Machine Ground.
4. MATERIALS "Meeh-
anite" Castings throughout.
5. SMOOTH RUNNING—
All Gear Teeth are gener-
ated.
6. VERSATILITY All
lathes have generous De-
tachable Gap Bridge.
7. "MARS" Lathe Lead
Screws are cut trom a certi-
fied and tested Master
Lead Screw.
ASK FOR FULL SPECIFICATIONS AND PRICES
DISTRIBUTING AGENTS: N.S.W.: Thomas Herbert & Co. Ply. Ltd.,
and Gibson Battle & Co. Pty. Ltd., Sydney.' Vic.: Herbert Osborne,
Engineer, 567-9 Little Bourke Street (near King Street), Melbourne.
S.A. : M. S. McLeod Ltd., Adelaide. W.A.: The Western Machinery
Co. Ltd., Perth. Tas .; Charles Davis Ltd., Hobart.”
Sales Representative:
C. Evans, c/- Bank of N.S.W., Port Moresby, Papua.
31k making the widest rangi
MAR!
OF MACHINE TOOLS IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE
MACHINE TOOL
MANFG.CO.PTY.LTO.
BRIDGE ST. VALLEY BRISBANE
J. & O’S. Advert.
