

DRY SOLER
A PRODUCT OF THE
dsf
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 70—No. 3611
Wednesday, April 27, 1949
Price 6d,
Registered at the General Post Office* Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
Seppelts
HIGH ON ITS MOUND NORWICH BROODS ON ITS ANCIENT HISTORY
NORWICH, which is at once a city and a County Borough, situated in
the centre of the eastern portion of the County of Norfolk, 20 miles
from the east coast, possesses two notable buildings, one of which is the
Castle. This massive square Norman structure stands on a huge artificial
mound which some antiquaries assert was raised by the Angles in the eighth
century when they established a settlement at the foot of Castle Hill, which
is now the oldest part of Norwich.
The town grew around the Castle, and by the tiiHe of Edward the
Confessor (1042-1066) it was the seat of the Royal Mint and a place of
considerable importance, exceeded in wealth and population only by London
and York.
During William the Conqueror’s reign (1066-1087) the Castle was entrusted
to Ralf de Gunder, Earl of Norfolk. In 1075 he married Emma, the
daughter of Osbern, who was the Conqueror’s chief military adviser. On the
wedding-day Ralf and his friends tried to overthrow the king. The rebellion
failed, however, and Ralf de Gunder fled to Bretagne, leaving his wife behind
to hold the Castle in his name. Emma held out for three months and was
then granted honorable capitulation and shipped abroad to her husband, both
of whom died later in the Holy Land.
The building of'the present Castle is attributed to Hugh Bigod, Earl of
Norfolk, in 1140. The fortress underwent many sieges; it was taken by
Flemish troops in 1174 and by French troops in the time of King John
(1199-1216), but soon ceased to have any military importance with the intro-
duction of artillery and the gradual settlement of the country. It remained
Royal property until given by George 111 to the County of Norfolk, when
it served as a county prison for over five centuries. The keep was refaced in
1834 and, having been acquired by the city, was opened in 1894 as a museum,
for which purpose it is still used, and is one of the best-appointed museums in
Britain. Included among the considerable collection of local antiquities are
prehistoric flint implements and fossils. In the Norfolk Room are displayed a
variety of birds and animals in their natural settings. The Norwich School of
Painting, which includes works by such famous artists as Crome, Vincent
and Cotman, can also be seen in the Castle. Other points of interest are
the dungeons, which bear inscriptions carved by prisoners centuries ago and
the battlements, from which there are extensive views of the city.


Leant >
C'i'hni
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin
My Name
My Address
iIB. 249
AGE
The Red Page
THE WORLD OF WALL.
Arnold Wall’s The Pioneers and Other
Points (A. H. and A. W. Reed, Welling-
ton) is something more than an excep-
tionally readable collection of verses. It
is a world ; it is an island in space where
the reader may walk for immense dist-
ances without fear of falling off into
nothingness or, what is worse, into
ordinary existence again.
In a limited way, a “world” is created
by every poem that has ever been writ-
ten. You read “The Rainbow Foot,” one
of those nature poems in which Arnold
Wall reminds you for a moment of W.
H. Davies:
O happy trees,
There as you stand, lost among the dowdy
houses,
Giving your branches to the breeze
That breathes on them and rouses
Music and the murmuring of the seas:
Now, if for a moment only,
The finger of God, lingering, points to you,
As you stand lonely,
In a glory of-crimson, yellow and blue,
Never again to glow as you glow now
At the foot of the bow—
and here is a vision not only of the trees,
but of the dowdy house's of the earth
surrounding them, and the sky beyond
them, and beyond the sky Arnold Wall’s
concept of Divinity. The rainbow lights
up the entire universe. But only for an
instant, and .only as a background. Then
one comes back to the grove of trees Wall
is here really concerned with ; the single
glowing image; the moment of vision ;
the tiny fragment snatched up by the
poet from the immensity of earth and
space.
It takes a great many such fragments,
and a great constructive power in organ-
ising them, ,to make a world the size of
The Ring and the Book ; and a multitude
to make the whole of Browning’s world.
One thing is certain about Arnold
Wall: though he has never attempted
construction on the grand scale, he has
produced enough fragments to make a
sizeable world. The Pioneers contains 361
poems. The publishers say that he has
chosen the verses as his “final col-
lection” and, though that description is
obviously * inadmissable, both because
many good poems from his previous
books are omitted and because Wall is still
writing, there is enough work here not
only to give a fair idea of what he has
done but to show that that is bigger than
has generally been recognised. Simply as
a matter of arithmetic —and only by mass
of work does a poet’s world grow in mag-
nitude—how many other poets in Aus-
tralia and New Zealand match his out-
put?
It is possible, and also necessary for an
exact computation of its weight, to re-
duce Wall’s total to .some extent by a
process of condensation. He writes with
a facility which, while ft makes for bulk
of output, has not quite the solidity that
comes from firmer and finer craftsman-
ship, And many of his poems, such as
his rhymes on vulgarities of speech—
“Hospitalise,” for instance —
When first I heard
That wondrous word.
So indiscreetly blazing,
So hair-raising,
So wildly daring,
So new, so glaring,
I was so shockingly surprised
I had to be straightway
Without delay
Hospitalised—
are, however salutary or amusing, very
short and very light.
But then, with his 361 poems, Wall can
afford to have his output condensed ; and
he must still have a body of work that
is remarkable in any category of poetry
by Australian standards and respectable
in the lyrical category anywhere.
And one must beware, on the other
hand, of underrating Wall’s verse for its
ease. His title poem—possibly chosen
as such as a concession to those New
Zealand critics who have repeatedly
pushed aside his poetry because it is not
generally concerned with themes specifi-
cally Antipodean—amounts to hardly
more than competent restatement of the
conventional sentiments about pioneers;
but as far as the bulk of the book is con-
cerned one is not so much troubled by
the facility of the verse aS filled with
admiration at its deftness. Often enough
it says exactly what Wall wants it to say,
with beautiful precision;
The body and her senses so control
Figures of thought, the motions of the soul,
And set so firm the idiom of the mind,
That when men strive in terms of universes
Largely to think and speak, surely they find
Their language and its modes fail of their
aim,
Being only fit for mothers and for nurses;
While the small-talk of astro-physicists
Sounds like the innocent child’s unmeaning
game,
Beating the piano-keys with random fists.
A poem that reads as easily as this—a
statement so plain and straightforward
that you would never suspect from the
first few innocent lines that Wall intended
at the close to shatter with doubt the
entire body of mankind’s religious and
scientific speculation—may not have been
written so easily. It may have been
polished with long pains into this bare
perfection. It may be the result of a
lifetime’s discipline in the art of verse.
And if, because there is no technical de-
velopment shown in the collection, no
way of telling from the style of verse
which is an early poem and which is
recent, the impression persists that Wall
writes without much toil, then one can
only say that he was born with, or very
soon developed, a technique perfectly
suited for his purposes. Perhaps the adroit
and disciplined verse comes naturally to
an adroit and disciplined personality.
As for the light verses —they are never
as light as they may appear. When Wall
is correcting the journalists who write
that “the position is acute” —
Among my gustatory observations
Upon the scripts of penmen of repute,
“Positions,” “shortages” and “situations”
Are all, I notice, said to be “acute.”
“Sharp-pointed” being its only definition,
It seems unsuited to abstract position,
Unless for him, with features madly
working,
Who inadvertently or rashly sits
Upon a needle in the cushion lurking—•
the verse, on the surface and isolated from
the collection, is hardly more than mildly
comic ; at most, a gentle little satire on
contemporary journalese. If it were no
more than that it would need no defence,
for even a poet is entitled to amuse him-
self and, since any piece of writing is
also a piece of autobiography, it tells
us something about the lighter aspects of
Wall’s character. But, read in its proper
place among the mass of his work,
it also tells us something about
the deeper aspects. Wall is a
scholar, an aristocrat and a visionary;
and it is really no joke to talk about
“acute positions” to a scholar who fears
that the wisdom of the ages may be lost
by the corruption of the language, to
an aristocrat who abhors the vulgarity of
our time and to the visionary who fears
that, if man becomes cheap and corrupt
enough, the offended gods may
round upon us in an evil hour,
And justly and implacably determine
To rid their crystal walls of human vermin.
It is very dangerous indeed to talk about
“acute positions” or “outstanding impres-
sions” or “building a nest-egg” or “well-
informed circles” or “fruitful sources” in
the hearing of Arnold Wall.
We have, then, in The Pioneers, when
due allowance has been made for ease and
lightness, 361 poems, practically all of
high if not the highest technical quality
and none, whether it is express or implied,
without dignity of mind. So large a body
of work must inevitably make a world of
one kind or another, whether it is to be
a corner of England like W. H. Davies’s,
a corner of New England like Robert
Frost’s, or something more vast in scope
like that of the great masters.
What astonishes and delights the reader
of The Pioneers —even a reader familiar
with Wall’s earlier books and with his
poems as they have appeared from time
to time in periodicals: usually in The
Bulletin —is how wide, how diverse in
detail and far-ranging in extent is Wall’s
world. Its scope is from the beginning
of time, when a ghost from Elizabethan
days booted, cloaked and capped, travels
back through the centuries to the camp-
fire of the “half-finished men” of the
Stone Age:
He fits their bowstrings into a frame of
bone,
Plays them a rollicking tune as he sits on a
stone.
“Drink to me only” he sings with affected
ease;
With fear and amaze the whiskered visages
j freeze.
He is gone, gone like the flame of a wasted
wick;
He awakes in the street with his brain heavy
and thick;
While, hardly believing the tale of their
eyes and ears,
They embroider the wondrous thing for a
thousand years—
to the atom-bomb, the future when men
will take
Cook’s tours to Venus, cheap week-ends on
Mars
Or paint advertisements upon the moon;
and beyond that to the still more distant
future when, it may be.
Shall man, beast, insect, flower and grass
and tree,
The brute rock and the waters salt and
waste,
The sun himself and all his family.
All suns, all sun-seed slip into the past
Leaving behind no chrysalid or husk,
Nor memory of any orbit run,
Gone like the midges of a summer dusk,
The billions drawn into the timeless one.
So may the mind begin to wonder whether
The shreds of matter one to another hold
Like beggars in the frost, huddling together,
Through the long, bitter night, out of the
cold.
And between this beginning and this
end —if one may speak of a beginning and
an end when the poet’s territory is infinity
—there is no theme too vast for him to
touch on and none too small. As Words-
worth could come down from the moun-
tains to fraternise with the Lesser Celan-
dine, so Wall is one day up on the back
of the moon
Where the sun has never shone,
Where the sun can never shine.
Where chill winds wail and whine
Against the lifeless stone —
and the next day is sympathetically im-
personating a snail or observing the
humble marigold:
In trashy wayside, dust,
Hold up your brazen face
And stare the arrogant sun
Out of countenance,
O flaming, bold
And lusty marigold.
He writes about mastodons, and he
writes about motor-cars ; he writes about
Hitler, and he writes about Aberdeen
terriers; he writes about sparrows and
he writes about Dean Swift; he writes
about revolution and he writes about rats;
he writes about the spelling of the word
“luncheon,” and he writes about Ther-
mopylae.
Fully to illustrate the richness and
variety of Wall’s world one would have
to quote the whole of his book ; but
perhaps one poem, “Child in the Bus,”
will give some indication of how
packed and crowded it is with all kinds
of phenomena —animal, vegetable and
mineral—how comprehensive and how
vivid:
The small girl in the bus
Is only four years old,
A lively, forward puss
With big eyes and bold.
Like a dram she stirs
The sombre passengers.
Standing on the seat
She sees to left, to right,
Behind, before, within, without,
A thousand things to wonder about;
Backs of heads, collars white,
Hats, spectacles, noses, feet;
The busy brain still recording
The paddock, the foal, the hill, the hoarding,
Driven sheep in the road straying,
The eager bus delaying;
The forest trees, the waste of scrub,
The township, street, store and pub.
While we, the rest of us,
Saint, snob, sneak or liar,
Just her field of fire,
Sit mum, brood and glower.
And curse the lagging hour.
She’s like a gash of red
In a grey sky,
A ball of mercury •
Among the pigs of lead.
Wall’s world is, in fact, the world we
all live in. Not a corner of the world,
nor an aspect of the world, nor a section
of the world’s history—not the poetry ot
a region, or poetry restricted to the
theme of nature or love, or a poetry
dealing only with the poet’s personal ex-
periences—but the whole world we live
in and the whole time or eternity in
which it has existed and will continue to
exist.
It is worth pausing to remark how
naturally and unselfconsciously—though
he claims to belong to the age of cabs
and crinolines; and does sometimes
criticise the modem scene from that view-
point—Wall accepts the characteristic
phenomena of the present, the machines
and the gadgets of science. While the
younger generation of English poets
thought they were making a revolution in
the history of poetry by writing about
telephqnes and aeroplanes and pylons,
and white most romantic writers still
find it difficult to bring such unpoetic
objects into their verse. Wall has been
quietly writing about them for years.
They were part of the world he lived in ;
of course he could write about them:
without asking anyone’s permission and
without making the slightest fuss about
his achievement.
But merely to photograph the world as
it stands, with the # impersonality of a
machine, would leave us precisely where
we are. To write about everything might
be to write about nothing. If Wall’s
world is to be different from the worlds
of other writers, and different from the
daily spectacle of chaos, then it must be
described from some special and original
viewpoint. Under the innumerable vari-
ations there must be, express or implied,
simple or complex, a basic theme.
There is no doubt about Arnold Wall’s
originality. His technique is part of it,
for, though it is not strikingly different
from the norm of English poetry, it is
readily distinguishable from the mass ;
it is his own. His humor is part of it,
for there we have his sometimes amusing
and sometimes caustic personality. His
wide range of interests is part of it, for
there we receive the impression of a mind
continuing the fine tradition of past cen-
turies that is the duty and the pleasure
of a gentleman to be interested in every-
thing that concerns human progress. His
sensitive humanity, shocked at the ferocity
of war, is part of it.
And when all these elements are blended
as they are in the book, and illumined
throughout by the author’s personality,
the poetry is seen to be the reflection of
a completely civilised mind. The world
it creates is the world we live in as it is
seen by that rare mind and as it is colored
and animated by a writer who values his
sense of humor —“the ship’s cat” —as
much as “fame, honor, life itself. ..or
very nearly,” and to whom nothing is
without significance:
These lives so meanly led,
So reptile and so low,
Oppressed by circumstance,
So casually destroyed
' Must not be said
To be inept and void
Of all significance.
For had not this man been,
With his paltry shop and wretched home,
The whole pattern of earth
That changes and grows from minute to
minute,
Its inward soul and outward scene,
And the larval god within it,
Awaiting his hour of glorious birth.
We know not why or how,
Would not be what it is now,
Or shall become.
It is, finally, a haunted world. From
what standpoint does a writer survey “the
whole pattern of earth?” Surely, from
beyond the earth. From where does he
survey the whole extent of time —past,
present and future —in which the earth
moves? From eternity. It is from there
that Wall watches the world we live in
and transmutes it into the world of his
poetry; and that is why, if there is one
word which can describe the ultimate and
total effect of these unpretentious poems
about snails, small girls and Aberdeefi
terriers, the word is “lofty.”
His theme is the profound, the funda-
mental theme of the destiny of mankind ;
and he is never for one moment unaware,
whether he is writing about Napoleon or
about an umbrella, that everything men
say or do must somehow and some time
affect their relations with certain
high august intelligences
That dwell beyond the reach of our dull
senses;
and that everything they see, were their
minds observant enough, bears witness
to the existence of those beings:
So from the fluid forms of living things,
The beast, the flower, the tree,
A God might well be guessed.
Wall’s own relations with these august
intelligences would make the subject for
an essay in themselves. There is no aspect
of the case for or against the existence
of supernatural powers he has not
studied ; there is no speculation as to the
possible fate of mankind —heaven, hell
or mere nothingness —he has neglected.
If a choice had to be made among his
scores of poems dealing directly with
this theme, one might select “Account
Rendered” ; for if its surly defiance is not
typical of Wall’s usually more urbane or
more icy moods, it embodies two ideas
which, among his often contradictory
speculations, are the essence of his philo-
sophy : that the “august intelligences"
do exist and that, with luck and with
difficulty, all may yet be well with man-
kind :
With what an angry and contemptuous eye
Our arrogant sun, now near his setting,
Peers, through a rent in an encumbered sky,
Upon this child of his begetting;
This sodden world, blurred in a blinding
rain,
Full of sad trees and hearts despairing,
Birds that sit dumb or fitfully complain,
Chill miseries and pains past bearing.
And who is he, to look disdainfully
Upon the lives his rays engendered?
We have paid in full, the man, the bird,
the tree,’
The hard account he rendered.
As far as his poetry is concerned, Wall
himself has certainly paid his account.
He began sending his poems to The Bul-
letin in 1903, and, at 80, he is still con-
tributing ; and as the result of that life-
time of effort, he has created the rich
and substantial world of this book: where
no one could walk without pleasure,
without acquiring wisdom and without
being slightly alarmed at the perils ct
immortality.
What his world lacks is the fourth
dimension of passion. It is not limited
in scope, but it is limited in force ; and
so, except in flashes, his poetry lacks the
qualities that spring from passion: music
and fire. Other writers in Australia ana
New Zealand, creators of worlds smalle.
or less complete, exceed him in intensity.
and, perhaps, since intensity is also a
measurement, their worlds are more pro-
found and more radiant. But against
whatever he may lack in passion, Wait
may set in compensation, as well as hb
moments of power, his august and impish
personality, his completely civilised mm
and the massed weight of his work ’‘'hie
makes the world of The Pioneers; ana
that is enough to place him, without argu-
ment as to his exact place in the hue, m
the very best poetical company m J>e
Zealand and Australia.
DOUGLAS STEWART
{Red Page continued on page ->5.)


TRUTH BIN ADVERTISING”
NTUnitY HUMERUS
Listen to “Writers’ Playhouse”
on 2UE at 8.30 every Friday night,
when a specially written play by
Australian author will be presented.
MULTICOLOURED ducks
for verandahs , awnings, shop fronts
Let our fitters measure for you and
advise on the type of blinds, etc., most suitable.
In sharp, clear stripes, multi-coloured duck
blinds are made in our own
factory under expert supervision.
UMBRELLA
mm
r, m
m
ORIENTAL
■
CONVERTIBLE
I
STRAIGHT DROP
• ' -
m
*M
zm
. I
■ '
I
■
S
mm
-
\\ \ .
: ‘
Ik ■ ■'' \
JBngfa and decorative . . . practical, economical
Venetian Blinds
MANUFACTURED IN OUR OWN FACTORY
With Venetian Blinds in your home, your rooms will seem more spacious and
airy, look smart and modern and will have a decided
*
air of distinction. Let our fitters call, measure for and advise on
your blinds, which will be made from the
best available seasoned timbers and painted any colour you desire.
Yotif* family’s healtst depends on the
Wire doors and screens in the Home...
WmgTTi,
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ BLINDS THIRD FLOOR. ’PHONE: M 2401, DAY OR NIGHT; BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


SHOOTINF AT STARS
By GLORIA RAWLINSON
TO reach the thriving coastal town
from the city (a' distance of some
hundred and twenty miles) the
motorist had to pass through a
country where the Kinopiro River
divided two settlements, Kino, meaning
“bad” and Piro, meaning “stinking.”
The quickest way to the coastal town was
by leaving the main motor route, taking
the old Ferry-road to the coast and cross-
ing the river.
There was a twelve-mile detour which
branched off the old Ferry-road and ran
in a semi-circle back to the coast, by-
passing the river. The old Ferry-road
must originally have been a Maori track
and was nothing to be ashamed of since
it was metalled and level all the way,
but the County Road Board was prouder
of the detour, which had an excellent
surface and was dotted on each side
with flourishing farms.
To the artistic soul, however, there was
romance and beauty on the old Ferry-
road, a native wildness which had
vanished from the detour. One could
see the great gulf, and in the distance
the purple ranges with the coastal town
sprawling below. There were rainbow'
colors in the sea and white beaches
fringed with blue sea-lavender, dog-
daisies and the native sand-columbine,
paraha. Wild peaches and figs grew all
along the coastal road.
There were no picnic-parties, no cara-
vans, no week-end batches. The long-
legged wading birds were not afraid of
passing motor-cars and only momentarily
looked up from their pools ; pied oyster-
catchers, stilts and occasionally white
herons joined the waders and stalked
from pool to pool in pleasant comrade-
ship.
There were miles and miles of mud-
flats, mangroves and white shell road.
MOTOR-CARS, lorries, service-cars
and vans were frequently on the road
between coastal town and city. Their
drivers resented the extra twelve-mile
detour which they always took, but they
resented the Kinopiro River still more.
The river was crossed by way of the
ferry, a barge which accommodated
about six cars. Here the river was at its
narrowest, but immediately spread out
fanwise, like a gigantic hourglass, mud-
flats, mangroves and bilious-lobking tide-
water to right and left.
Two barges placed end to end would
have made a safe crossing, but nobody
seemed to have thought of this obvious
solution. For more than fifty years the
County Road Board had refused to build
a bridge across the Kinopiro River. To
be ferried over on the barge, which had
cables and an engine, the fare was half-
a-crown for vehicles and threepence each
for passengers, single.
Captain Slack always asked if a re-
turn fare was required, and if the motorist
sourly said “Yes,” he would go into his
tiny cabin and bring out a faded ticket
marked with a number and Kinopiro
Ferry, Return Fare Paid.
The return fare always went to the
County Road Board and Captain Slack
had a twice-yearly reckoning in the
county office. But the single fares, and
these greatly outnumbered returns, went
into his own pocket and were his only
means of livelihood, the board allowing
him petrol for the engine, but no wages.
However, it had worked that way for over
half a century. Captain Slack having in-
herited the position on the toll-barge
from his father.
HE was a kindly, efficient and rather
proud man. He listened patiently to
the expostulations of motorists who
objected to paying thirty pence to cover
a distance they could have left behind
in thirty seconds, if there had been a
bridge. It was not his fault, he said, as
the cables creaked and the engine splut-
tered, that the fare had never altered. In
the old days it had been half a crown for
horse and cart and nobody objected.
But in those days there had been no
detour and the Ferry-road was the only
way to the coastal town. Then an en-
terprising farmer ‘who found the toll
costly and had an interest in the Road
Board urged that a detour be made on
the bbundary of his property.
It soon became the best road and the
most patronised in the country; guide-
books zealously advised motorists to take
the detour in preference to the antiquated
ferry, and service and business cars found
it less expensive to travel the extra twelve
miles than to pay a return toll for the
use of the barge.
It took anything from one minute up
to half an hour to cross the river on board
the Tortoise, as the barge was called by
the Kino and Piro settlers.
If you were lucky enough to find
Captain Slack and his barge on the
side where you drew up at the notice —
Danger. Stop. Ferry—all you had to
do was to run your car down the steep
incline on to the black, tarred deck, pay
the Captain, who started his engine, and
before you could take the hand out of
your pocket where you were putting your
change, you could drive off up the other
bank.
But sometimes there was trouble, the
engine broke down, a motorist got his
gears mixed, a car refused to budge or
the Captain was away buying his stores.
Then horns began to toot and people to
shout across the river to each other.
Or you could just sit and wait in eerie
silence broken only by the songs of larks.
The larks were a feature of the place
and must have been amphibious if it is
true that they sing in the sky directly
above their nests.
The Captain could give no information
about them. The eccentric larks had
always been there, singing above the
mangrove swamp. He suspected that
they built their nests in the reeds, but
being a nautical man was not interested
in such things.
When the tide was in, a cheerful breeze
blowing, the tops of the mangroves just
showing above the water, and the
eccentric larks singing, the Kinopiro
River was not devoid of beauty. But
when the tide was out and there was
dead calm, all the unsavory odors in the
world seemed to gush from, the mudflats
and the mangroves made strange plopping
noises with their peg-like roots, which
acted as a breakwater and caught such
things as offal, dead sheep and discarded
cats and dogs. Then the waiting pas-
sengers would hold their noses and toot
impatiently for the captain.
For generations the Kino and Piro
settlers had been at loggerheads. At
Kino there was a general store and post-
office, a school with a dozen pupils, a
settler’s hall, and several farmsteads. At
Piro there was a general store and post-
office, a school with a dozen pupils, a
settlers’ hall and several farmsteads.
The Kino people never crossed the
river into Piro —that would have been
going from bad to worse. The Piro
people would not be seen dead in Kino.
The thing was catching. Once when the
sole teacher of the Piro school met the
sole teacher of the Kino school he said
the only thing that comforted him in
serving his necessary country years of
teaching was that he might have been
appointed to Kino, The Kino teacher
looked him up and down and said “I’d
sooner teach in a bad hole than a stink-
ing one, anyway.”
ONLY Captain Slack was proud of
both settlements. He bought his
bread in Kino, his groceries in Piro. He
lived in the little cabin on the barge and
at night dropped anchor in the middle
of the river where he and the Tortoise
went to sleep in amiable neutrality.
When business and the tide were at low-
water mark he would sit on the Kino
side of the river with a couple of Kino
boys, eel-bobbing, spearing flatfish or
catching patiki with rod and line. The
next day he would be on the Piro side,
giving the Piro boys a lesson in eel-
bobbing. To the children he was a man
of great importance. Nobody could cross
the river without paying toll to the
Captain. He was a strong man, too, and
his command of the Tortoise was beyond
criticism. He had once sent a drunken
motorist back to take the detour. The
motorist had described a semi-circle and
came to the other side, but by that time
he was sober, so the Captain ferried him
across to where he first arrived and then
back again and charged him two single
fares. That, said the children, showed
what a great man he was. Good old
Captain Slack!
J N the course of time an ex-Kino girl
1 married an ex-Piro boy.
Theirs was a very ordinary romance:
“I’ll show you,” the soldier said to
the girl in the cahteen, “how we eat
eggs in the place I lived in when I was
a kid.”
He stabbed a fried egg with his fork,
twirled it round and round, and then
jerked his hand. The egg went straight
into his open mouth. He ate it slowly,
looking at the girl with his head on one
side. “What part do you come from?”
“A bad place,” the girl said. “A very
bad place. But at least we ate eggs like
civilised people.”
“I know of only one really bad place
—Kino”
“I was born in Kino. Don’t tell me
you ever lived in Piro?”
“I did. I count myself a Piro man,
and I’m not ashamed of it. But you!
Hide your face, wench! No, let me have
another look. So young, so fair, so
.sweet, and she was born in Kino?”
“I once bought some biscuits from the
store in Piro,” said the girl. “The Cap-
tain”*—
“Slack! God bless him!”
“Of the barge”
“The Tortoise! May she never be
bottom up!”
“Told me not to cross, but I did. The
biscuits had weevils in them. Every-
thing in Piro is rotten.”
“I wonder how things are back there?”
“You homesick for Piro, poor soldier?”
“It was good fun, eel-bobbing with
Captain Slack.”
“He must have made a lot of money
there.”
“Two cars a day—five bob.”
“I remember seeing six cars on the
barge at once.”
“No! Sure you weren’t seeing treble?”
“It was a funeral. A Piro man. His
last words were ‘Don’t bury me in this
stinking hole.’ ”
“Listen, Kino”
“Don’t call me Kino. I left there
when I was ten. Have another egg,
soldier, and eat it with your knife and
fork this time,”
FIVE years after this introduction the
young doctor and his wife arrived
back in their own country. They stayed
with his brother in the city and a week
later borrowed his car. “We want to go
and see the dear old home. I didn’t tell
you that Shirl is a Kino girl.”
“You’d better take a road-guide,” said
his brother. “Things have changed up
there. Sam was telling me there’s no
need to take the detour now, but I
haven’t been that way for fifteen years.”
“I don’t need a road-guide. I could
find my way blindfolded, and Sam or no
Sam we’re taking the detour. We want
the kid to see the old familiar spots
where we played as children. We’ve
promised him a ride on the ferry.”
“I never went much on the place,”
grunted his brother. “I never met any-
one from there.”
The first three turnings they took
proved to be wrong ones. Shirley hooted
with delight. “One thing I like about
my husband, girls, is that he never makes
rash statements. Shall I blindfold you,
Doc? You said you could find the way
blindfolded.”
“They’ve been altering the road signs.
I won’t stand for it. A fellow can’t turn
his back for six or seven years before
they start messing things up! Now am
1 right? Aren’t we coming to the old
Ferry-road?”
“It looks like it, but why are the cars
turning into it?”
“To put up the Captain’s toll, lass.
Are his two bottles safe? Don’t let the
kid get at his beer.”
The little boy leaned over the seat.
“Wheresa werry?”
“We are coming to it, son. They have
moved a lot of traffic off this road since
I was here twenty years ago.”
“I told you all the cars are going down
the Ferry-road, through Bad to Worse.”
“Wheresa werry?”
“Lift him over here, Shirl, so he can
see where Daddy used to play. There’s
the drain where we used to catch frogs.
I was only as old as you, my boy, when
I first lived in that house among the
trees.”
“Wheresa werry?”
“Some of your relations are at the
gate. Doc. Did you let them know we
were coming?”
“All of my people left here years ago,
Shirl. Ah! Funny, aren’t you? Hi,
there, Uncle Capricornus!” He stopped
the car, got out and dragged an old
goat over the ditch. “Say now, Uncle
Gappy, stop knocking me about. That’s
no way to treat a hero. Meet my wife,
a Kino girl as ever was, and the little
billy-goat in her lap is our son.”
“Wheresa werry?” lisped the child, as
they drove on again.
“The ferry will be just around the
corner. The place seems to have gone
back, Shirl.”
*<'T'HAT wouldn’t be possible. But
1 here is a nice school. Twice as
big as the old one. Now we must be on
the coast road. And look, a tea place
with service-cars outside. They didn’t
take the detour, either!”
“I must stop the car and hide my
emotion. Do you see anything ahead?”
“Wheresa werry?”
“So that’s it!”
“Wonders will never begin again for
me!”
“Wheresa werry?”
“There isn’t any, son, there is only a
bridge.”
“Wheresa werry—want a werry!”
“He would rub it in. He’s kino and
piro, that kid.”
“Drive over the bridge to the house
where I was born, Doc. Let’s find out
what has become of Captain Slack.”
They drove backwards and forwards
across the bridge several times.
They pretended to the little boy that
they were riding on the ferry. But he
(i Continued on page 29.)
Nursery Rhyme for a Seventh Son.
You must begin by leaving home,
and that is not easy.
Home is so faithful, so calm,
a shelter from the cold wind
that calls to the frightened, the weak and
the lazy,
Come ; you must come.
The wind will blow you to the witch,
and the witch is your danger.
Remember the trick of the latch
and be careful with questions.
When she gives you your answer, don’t
wait any longer ;
go, and keep watch.
The witch will send you to the wall
and the wall is your barrier.
You will not see it at all
if you don’t walk boldly,
until with a grip like warm flesh it will
seize you and bury you
before you can call.
If you hack at that flesh with your sword
it will weep like your mother.
Like a snake it will spring; like a cord
it will choke you to silence.
You never will cross it—one fold will
give way to another —
till you find the right word c
The wall is the way to the wood,
and the wood is your death.
You must go by the darkest road
where the voices whisper.
They will steal from you your sight and
your speech and breath ;
you will drown in a night like a hood.
It will cover you deeper in cold
than your heart can measure.
You will lose the sword that you hold
and all that you own.
And after that you will find your heart’s
true treasure —
your love and your gold.
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT.


The Bulletin
Vol. 70—No. 3611
Wednesday, April 27, 1949
DESIGNING BRITANNIA’S “NEW LOOK.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Mao"
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; 'Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 242-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand; Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
“LABOR" IN CORRUPTION.
From the proceedings of the Victorian
A.L.P. annual conference comes the cue
to the Liberal leaders —Mr. Menzies, who
has set the ball rolling with his anti-Com-
munist campaign, and Premier Hollway,
of Victoria, who has taken the first action
—to press on with their programme for
helping the mass of trade-unionists to
vanquish Communist minority-control
in the unions.
The Chifley Government cannot get
down to the job; the A.C.T.U. is not
game or united enough to press for it —
it has too many Communist skeletons
of its own in the cupboard. Federal
“Labor” policy on this matter is re-
served as much for Mr, Chifley’s per-
sonal decision as is Our Foreign Policy
for Dr. Evatt’s. The A.C.T.U. has been
frightened into impotence with the
threat of the Communist-bossed unions
to form their own Trades Hall, and Mr.
Chifley will not move a yard in election
year unless the A.C.T.U. gives him the
signal. The “Labor” split is widening for
all the political efforts to smother it up,
and the A.L.P., judging by the Victorian
conference, can only wring its hands.
Charges of corrupt ballots, of victimisa-
tion of individuals by their unions, do
not depend on the confessions in the
current daily Press by one ostensibly
repentant Moscow agent among the Marx
House collection in this country. The
disclosures about crooked ballots for
union-executive elections make the re-
velations of Sydney Trades Hall’s sliding-
panel ballot-box of 25 years ago look in-
significant by the comparison. It was the
Clerks’ Union which was the centre of
the furore then, and from an outraged
member of the same organisation came
the opening charges of victimisation by
Communist executives which have been
stirring *up the dust and heat lately. ;
Leading lights of the Victorian A.L.P.
have lived in this wrangle for months,
trying vainly to hush it up, and even
now all they can decide, after two annual
conferences have borne witness to the
fury of dissension within the unions, is
to “seek Federal legislation to prevent
crooked or rigged ballots.” They don’t
trust their anti-Communist industrial
groups sufficiently to demand, in plain
language, amendment of the Arbitration
Act to require union ballots to be con-
ducted by the Registrar. That the Com-
munists have threatened to call wide-
spread strikes if any such move is made
restrains their pretended zeal for reform,
as well as that of Federal Caucus.
The cue to the Liberals is therefore
obvious, and already Premier Hollway
is proposing to bring down some such
legislation in the Victorian State Parlia-
ment.
At the A.L.P. Conference in Mel-
bourne Mr. Riley, of the central execu-
tive, said the State Senate selections had
been “open to all types of corruption.
Three large unions could control the
ballot, and members did not know whom
they were voting for.” This brought a
reproachful, though confused, reply from
another speaker, who said this plain-
speaking was “throwing back in our laps
the words we accuse the Liberals of
using.” Then came this from the general
secretary and campaign-director, Mr.
Kennelly, M.L.C., who graciously con-
sented, as an election candidate, not to
resign his A.L.P. office yet because the
party cannot do without his master-hand:
There have been cases where 96 per cent,
of ballot-papers returned from some unions
were marked exactly the same. I am not
going to say one person marked all the
papers. I have no proof. But once the
ballot-papers leave our office and until they
return we have no control over them. We
do not know how the ballot is conducted.
I do not think there is a looser way of
conducting a ballot.
Nor would anybody else. Yet it is like
this under Mr. Kennelly’s administration,
and he postpones resignation because
as an organiser he is indispensable.
This matter of assuring that “Labor”
ballots shall be made honest has been
discussed and adjourned sine die for
almost as long as the cognate question of
combating Communists in the unions.
The 1948 Victorian A.L.P. Conference,
conducted in continual uproar on this
latter question, carried a recommendation
to the Federal conference:
That Communists, directed by the
Russian Communist party, are committed to
the destruction of the A.L.P. as a prelude
to social disorder and the seizure of political
power by revolution.
That was the voice of an industrial-group
majority speaking. The Sydney indus-
trial-group conference simultaneously re-
solved to urge the Federal and State
“Labor” Governments to inquire into the
activities of the Communist party, and
declared that “the Communist party exists
for the overthrow, by force of arms, if
necessary, of democratic government in
Australia.”
In the same week the Federal “Labor”
Caucus met, debated the matter, and de-
cided “almost unanimously” not to take
any action to suppress the Communist
party. Later, in September last, the
Federal A.L.P. conference ditched the
resolutions of the State conferences,'
although its own committee, appointed
to advise it, recommended that the Com-
munist party be declared an illegal
organisation.
The A.L.P.’s industrial groups are
fighting a lone cause in the ranks of “the
movement,” and should soon be ripe to
welcome Liberal-party action. They are
listening to every word Mr. Menzies
speaks from his campaign platforms.
Their own party, in either its industrial
or its political wing, is afraid to act.
That expert rail-sitter, Mr. Clarey, who
runs the A.C.T.U., speaking at the 1948
Victorian A.L.P. Conference of last year
in reply to a demand for “a definite state-
ment from the Federal Government on
its attitude to Communism” (vain hope!),
said: —•
All the things the Communist party stands
for are foreign and repugnant to the A.L.P.
We must make it clear that we have no
connection whatever with Communism. It
is just as totalitarian as Fascism and
Nazism.
But Mr. Clarey was silent this year.
Instead his A.C.T.U. colleague, Mr.
Broadby, newly-elected president of the
Victorian A.L.P., announced that “Labor”
will not ban Communism. It will merely
“appeal,” as he did a few weeks ago, for
“no strikes at least until after the elec-
tions.” He agrees with Mr. Chifley that
it is a “philosophy” and that its votes are
worth keeping, for “Labor” may want
them. He said:
Governments should not attempt to sup-
press freedom of thought We cannot
bury our heads beneath the dubious cover
of illegality by banning organisations.
But the rebel unions, under their Com-
munist bosses, are banning the Mel-
bourne Trades Hall resolutely enough,
and under their influence dues from those
unions are being withheld from both the
Trades Hall and “Labor’s” election funds.
At the behest of Mr. Lovegrove (organis-
ing secretary) and Mr. Peters, the victim-
ised clerk, the conference carried a motion
—it will be quite harmless—that “any
member of the A.L.P. who opposes affili-
ation of his union with the A.L.P. or
wilfully fails to support such affiliation,
shall be automatically expelled,” Mr.
Peters suggested “Judas Iscariot was a
leading light of loyalty” compared with
such people; and Mr. Lovegrove said
they would have to come down off the
fence and “make up their minds whether
they are working for the A.L.P. or for
the Communist party.”
None of this hot air produces anything
at all. The people at whom this motion
was aimed seem to come and go within
either party at will. They are above any
“Labor” rules of conduct, for they make
the rules and run “the movement.”
The plain truth is that “Labor” cannot
tackle the Communists because its leaders
dare not. They have played along with
these wreckers for too long. The Com-
munists are ready to expose them, from
Mr, Chifley downwards, if they should
attempt any rough stuff; and that, of
course, would settle “Labor” for the elec-
tions. The ball is at the Menzies-Fadden
team’s feet.
Three Men in a Boat.
Mr Chifley will not remain long in
£ n gj and From that country he always
h urr i es awa y as if he were afraid of
e j n g i n f ec ted with its spirit of endurance
or habits of determination and of fac-
£acts
j t is a land in which even Socialist
„ , r- , , , .
Governments find themselves unable to
evade facts, and which lives all the time
close to realities. And what is happening
politically in it is enough to give Mr.
l- j i ,
Chifley the shivers and make him wish he
were back at home among his detective
yarns, in the sylvan detachment of Can-
berra.
When the 1945 election came along in
Britain it was fought under unpriecedented
conditions. No elector under 30 had ever
been to a poll—the last had been in 1935
—and a very large proportion of the
voters was unacclimatised to the blandish-
ments of political campaigners. Others
were still on service, military and civilian.
or just finished with it. And all were
accustomed to regard the Churchill Gov-
ernment as synonymous with blood, toil,
tears and sweat, and to feel that they
could do with a little rest in the bed of
roses offered to them as the price of a
vote for the Socialists.
Those British prophets of the mil-
lennium, moreover, had an advantage over
the Australian type of Socialist, for only
a leaven of them were honest toilers like
Senator “Fixer” Ashley, Mr. Maxie
Falstein or that large city landlord. Dr.
Gaha. They largely belonged to the class
to which the floating vote belonged.
All the Socialists have so far done is to
prove that Mr. Churchill had no corner
in blood, toil, tears and sweat, which have
not been outlawed by Mr. Herbert Mor-
rison or Mr. Aneurin Bevan. The electors
of Britain have learned that under social-
ism they have had to work and sweat just
as hard as, or harder than, they would
have done if Mr. Churchill had remained
Prime Minister. They have learned by
this time that whatever results they have
achieved in recovery have been the results
of individual enterprise, and would have
been brought about just the same and
with less pushing-around and in a more
human atmosphere under a Conservative
Government.
If they thought that the Socialist Gov-
ernment might have anything to give
away they have discovered that it was
only a very solid section,of British defence
and most of the British Empire, dismem-
bered in response to a propaganda mainly
generated from Moscow. The British
electors who expected cake have
been given Sir Stafford Cripps. And they
have been forced to realise this fact at
the very worst moment for the Socialist
Government —a moment when the Gov-
ernment would certainly be window-
dressing with every colored piece of paper
at its command, if it still had anything
colored, with a view to its own safety at
the polls. On the face of the cold, hard
Budget which it has brought forward, full
of further tests for the endurance of the
voters, its cupboard is bare of everything
but further socialisation.
It scarcely needed the crushing land-
slide which hit the British Socialist party
at the recent County Council elections,
costing them a net loss of 253 seats over
large areas in which formerly Liberals
and Conservatives had not even a ghost
of a chance, to point what is happening
in Britain, where a few weeks ago the
Belcher case, something unprecedented in
the history of modem British Parlia-
mentary Government, monopolised the
front pages of the newspapers, and where
the final secession of Ireland will have a
profounder effect than is likely to be
understood in Australia, since it brings
the erosion of the Empire right up to the
doorstep of Englishmen.
The fact is that from the moment the
Socialists attained the right to govern
there has been a slow and steady swing
towards the Conservatives. It is true that
the Government has been a regular winner
of by-elections over a comparatively wide
field, but year by year the relative per-
centages of votes cast have shown where
the support is going.
A writer in the London “Daily Tele-
graph,” W. F. Deedes, has recently made
a detailed tabulation of the figures which
will not be heartening to Mr. Attlee.
It shows that in 1945 there were nine
by-elections—leaving out those in the
universities—and that in these as a whole
the Socialists showed a small percentage
gain and the Conservatives a further per-
centage loss on total votes by comparison
with the overall results of the general elec-
tion. ' •
In 1946, with 16 polls, the Conserva-
tives showed a one per cent, gain and
Labor a 0.6 per cent. gain. Next year, in
eight constituencies, the- Socialists polled
only 47.7 per cent, of votes where in 1945
they had polled 55 per cent., and the Con-
servatives polled 45.5 per cent, against an
earlier 38.4 per cent. In 1948, in 10 elec-
torates, the Socialist poll fell from 57.8
per cent, to 50.3 per cent., and the Con-
servative poll rose from 36.9 per cent, to
45.1 per cent. These results were obtained
in electorates some of which were of the
order of South Yarra and East Sydney.
But this has not been all. While the
first by-elections after the general election
showed an apathy which resulted in less
than 60 per cent, of the voters casting
their ballots, a normal condition of affairs
in English casual elections, the polling in
the last three years has approached
general-election standards of strength.
When it is considered that the Conser-
vative organisation was at its weakest in
all history in 1945 and that its finances
were well on the way towards being non-
existent, and it is known that the party
has become virile again, the pros-
pect which Mr. Attlee and his follow-
ing face next year, or whenever they go
to the polls, is not rosy.
After talks with Messrs. Chifley and
Fraser, however, Mr. Attlee may feel that
he has all the luck. He at least does not
have to contemplate a retreat from
socialism as long and steady as has taken
place in Maoriland, where the Labor Gov-
ernment, which almost smashed the
Opposition in 1935, is now held in
office by buying the Maoris, whose four
representatives—elected without an elec-
toral roll —constitute its majority, and
may not remain in office if the Cook
Islanders and Samoans are not enfran-
chised and pensioned for life as the
Maoris have virtually been.
And neither Mr, Attlee nor Mr. Fraser
is likely to express a wish to change posi-
tions with Mr. Chifley. For neither of
them has to carry round his neck the long
records of unchecked industrial discord
and disorder which will handicap that
gentleman when he faces his masters.
They will not have to carry the handi-
cap of the resistance of every bank-
officer in the country. They will not be
followed on the hustings by the mocking
of Mr. Holloway’s dictum that Com-
munism is a Christlike creed, or Mr.
Chifley’s own that it is a “political philo-
sophy,” a creed towards which he was dis-
playing a kindly tolerance when it repaid
him by forcing him to act against some
of its leaders for sedition and to try to
curb its disorderliness and dissociate him-
self and his party from it —something
which will be extremely difficult in view
of the fact that his A.L.P. executive is
sprigged with Comrades who have held
high office in the Communist party or in
its attendant satellite bodies, and who in
their time (and not so long ago) have
actively proposed the smashing of the
arbitration system and its replacement by
a Communist plan of economic regula-
tion.
Finally, neither Mr. Attlee (though he
has Aneurin Bevan) nor Mr. Fraser has
a Ward or a Dedman, an Evatt or a Cal-
well, hanging round his neck.
Happiness in the Socialist political
sphere is just now only a relative matter.
In Britain, in New Zealand and Australia,
the only English-speaking countries in
which there are Socialist Governments,
there is a slump in what those who hold
to them are pleased to call “doctrines of
democracy.” The only question at issue
now seems to be—providing Oppositions
do not make any serious mistakes and
have constructive programmes to offer —
which lot of Socialists will go to the block
first —Britain’s, Australia’s or Maoriland’s,
British peoples politically as well as
socially are apt occasionally to go out on
a short jag. But it is a characteristic of
them that they sober up after a
few rounds of socialism and return to the
system of free enterprise which is natural
to civilised peoples and steady tempera-
ments. In all three countries the dawn
of the morning-after appears to be break-
ing, with the electors reaching for the
aspirin.
Maoriland Wages.
New Zealand’s wage-rise, which The
Bulletin figured out a couple of months
ago was likely to be between 10s. and
15s. a week, is 11s. Bd. to 13s. 4d. on a
40-hour basis. Probably this is as much
as the inflated economy can stand, and it
might be too much if the downturn in
export prices goes far. What Maoriland
needs is higher real wages, coupled with
more production, while inflation is reined
in.
If workers get down to it with a will
and a slice is lopped off top-heavy taxes
in Labor’s pre-election Budget it should
be possible for Maoriland to absorb the
extra wage-costs without another round of
price-increases; but its maze of controls
won’t help. If the country’s rather
strained stabilisation structure is propped
up a little longer and its full-employment
policy is given another lease of life, the
chance to put prosperity on firmer ground
is probably the last in the present trade
cycle.
June 1 is the date fixed by the Arbitra-
tion Court for its pronouncement to
operate, and it will have a few busy weeks
amending awards. This isn’t a “general
order” like the 10s. rise in 1947, and some
unionists won’t get anything out of it,
for they’ve done fairly well in the past
year or two by jockeying to the front.
If rates today are 4s. an hour or more
they’ll remain unchanged; if 3s. 9|d.,
they’ll be lifted For skilled workers
the court’s new standard is 4d. above the
old, and for semi-skilled and unskilled
it is 3|d, an hour up. This fixes a margin
of 6d. between skilled and unskilled,
which most Maorilanders think is little
enough, and there’s nothing for white-
collar workers, who remain the forgotten
men.
Women, who have employers at their
mercy as industries, business, the profes-
sions and overgrown State departments
bid against one another in a constant
struggle to keep staffs up to strength, get
another 3d. an hour, or 10s. a week.
M.L.’s undersupplied labor market won’t
be transformed by adding a few more
millions to wages, and there’s a long
climb ahead before enough apprentices
and young tradesmen are likely to be
ready to fill the ranks in the skilled trades,
even with the stimulus of a revitalised
apprenticeship system and more train-
ing—the court’s twin aims. New Zealand s
background of prosperity, the court thinks
cautiously, is “very satisfactory at the
moment.” Business agrees, but is guess-
ing as to what might happen tomorrow.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Waterfront Anarchy.
Mr. Justice Kirby is at last fed up with
trying to run the Stevedoring Industry
Commission when at every opportunity
two of its members do all in their power
to undermine its authority. The com-,
mission was set up to facilitate the
smooth running of the stevedoring in-
dustry and to ensure a faster turn-round
of ships. It has achieved neither object.
The waterside workers’ secretary, J.
Healy, and his assistant, E. Roach, were
appointed to the commission by the
Chifley Government, allegedly because of
their knowledge of the industry. They
have used their position entirely in the
“interests” of their union, with the result
that the commission has been a dismal
failure and the rate of cargo-handling
has declined instead of improved.
When the Communist McPhillips was
sent to jail at the beginning of April for
contempt of the Arbitration Court, Healy,
following the Communist line, called the
wharfies out on strike. Judge Kirby, as
chairman of the commission, made a
radio appeal to watersiders to report for
work, pointing out the consequences of
refusal. Healy thereupon had a message
broadcast over a national station instruct-
ing his members to completely disregard
the instructions of the commission.
Watersiders in most ports refused to
strike, but in the port of Sydney Healy
had his way.
The situation should be examined
closely. McPhillips had been convicted
of contempt of court. The court was the
Arbitration Court, a
Commonwealth in-
strumentality. In
fomenting a political
strike on that issue
Healy was opposing
the Commonwealth
Government and
condoning contempt
of its court. The
Stevedoring Industry
Commission, an in-
strument of Com-
monwealth policy,
advised against the
strike. Healy told his
members to ignore
its advice. Any Gov-
ernment worthy of
its salt would have
immediately can-
celled the appoint-
ments of Healy and
his deputy on the
commission.
But there was no
move from the Act-
ing Prime Minister
or Senator Ashley.
Presumably neither
of the Ministers
could see anything
morally wrong in
the attitude of the
watersiders’ officials.
Last week Mr.
Justice Kirby an-
nounced that he in-
tended to recommend
to Senator Ashley
that “unless satis-
factory undertakings are received by him
from Messrs. Healy and Roach, that they
will comply with the commission’s orders
and not repeat their counsels of dis-
obedience, their appointments as mem-
bers of the commission be terminated.”
The response of the waterside bosses
was that they had “a legal and inalien-
able right to strike,” and that they would
not “surrender this right to Judge Kirby
or anybody else.” The Judge had not
questioned the union’s general right to
strike. What he was disputing was the
right of its leaders to stay on the com-
mission while urging their followers to
flout its orders. On Friday Senator
Ashley declined to comment on the situa-
tion —he was said to be “studying” the
Judge’s statement whereupon the
Reds carried their insolence a step
further with a suggestion that it was Judge
Kirby who should resign. At the week-
end it was announced that the Judge had
taken the unusual step of sending a letter
to every registered waterside worker in
Australia explaining why he made his
recommendation.
When this went to the printer there
had still been no word from Senator
“Fixer” Ashley or the Acting Prime
Minister. It is clear that Healy and
Roach have no intention of giving “satis-
factory undertakings”—indeed, on their
record, no undertaking they gave could
be regarded as satisfactory—and the Gov-
ernment should immediately let it be
known that it will back Judge Kirby’s
action to the full. If it does not do so it
will be admitting that the Waterside
Workers’ Federation runs its domestic
policy as well as its foreign policy.
Booze and Betting.
Maorilanders recently had a Booze and
Betting referendum. By roughly three to
one they refused the trade a four hours’
extension of the existing liquor-shop
hours, 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.; but by upwards
of two to one they did away with the
statutory restriction of betting to race-
course totalisators, sanctioning shop bet-
ting, which, of course, will be extended
to streets and other places, within and
without “the meaning of the Act.” For
this many of them will be sorry.
In Australia betting virtually has an
“open go.” In the result the condition of
racing was never more putrid, as witness
the prevalence of horse-doping and
“swab inquiries,” nor was the army of
parasites who “live on the game” ever so
multitudinous. Seemingly the Booze in-
terest is not so influential in Maoriland
as the Betting interest. In Australia both
are powerful, in public life and in civil
life.
Many newspapers make racing their
principal topic. Acres of space are given
over to the doings, and even the sayings,
of semi-illiterate jockeys and bookmakers.
Hence, in part, the current “industrial
unrest,” which is fairly attributable in no
small degree to the craze for gambling.
For what do industrial agreements and
the needs of industry and domestic life
and the requirements of the nation
matter to “sports” who have “lost their
tin”?
There was recently a call for a strike-
settlement meeting in one of the N.S.W.
coalmining districts. It came to nothing
because all the “workers” and their dele-
gates had gone to the races.
In Australia it is a racing-club custom
"TALK TO HIM IN WELSH, DAVID, AND PACIFY HIM!"
This David Low cartoon was published in The Bulletin on March 16, 1916, on the occasion of W. M. Hughes’s
introduction to the British War Cabinet (Asquith’s). Lloyd George is the “David” referred to, and last week Mr.
Hughes beat Lloyd George’s term of 54 years, 8 months and 17 days pf continuous Parliamentary service.
to-issue frte tickets to politicians, State
and Federal, and their ladies. Presum-
ably Maoriland! politicians will now enter
upon the enjoyment of the equivalent
privilege, and such of them as may bb
called upon to account for curious addi-
tions to their bank balances will, from
time to time, be in a position to aver that
they won the increments from book-
makers —claims difficult to prove when
the only instrument of betting is the tote.
With Scotch Presbyterianism still to be
reckoned with, it scarcely seems likely
that Crown land in the capital city will
be given over to unregistered meetings, as
is the case at Canberra.
Nor is it conceivable that Governor-
General Freyberg, great soldier that he
was, will be asked to set his imprimatur
on the establishment by “Labor” of a
racing club. That was done by a non-
military “Labor” Premier of N. S. Wales,
now Governor-General of the Common-
wealth and known to cynics as “the
Prisoner of Zenda” —done in Act 22 of
1943 —yes, 1943. As well as being
authorised to conduct a glorified
gambling hell, the club was empowered
by “Labor” to put in for public funds:
Section 9 (sub-section 2): The Treasurer
may advance such moneys to the club as
the Governor may approve upon such terms
and conditions as to repayment and interest
as may be agreed upon.
In the long history of war there is no
counterpart to this provision for ladling
out public money to a concern based on
gambling in a country in peril of invasion.
But, in N. S. Wales, though truth may
be at a discount, the Betting interest is
mighty, and it prevails.
Soldier-settlement Delay.
The squabble over soldier-settlement is
by no means confined to Mr. Dedman
of Canberra and Mr. Sheahan of N. S.
Wales. Nearly all the States are com-
plaining about the delay and disapoint-
ment suffered by intending settlers
through the duplication of functions by
Commonwealth and State land officials
and the inevitable rows that arise be-
tween them oyer valuations and subdivi-
sions.
H. L. Simpson, chairman of the Vic-
torian Soldier-settlement Commission,
ventured to say that Commonwealth ad-
ministration of soldier-settlement was
“unbusinesslike,” whereupon Mr, Ded-
man rounded on him and said that any
complaints should come from the Vic-
torian Government. No wonder State
Ministers and senior departmental
officers echo Mr. Sheahan’s complaint
that Mr. Dedman treated him “like an
office-boy.”
Meantime the victims are the returned
men, some of whom have now been
waiting for years to begin farming. Most
are still hoping, a few have got going,
but too many have turned to city jobs in
order to save something from the wreck
of the finances with which they hoped
to start on the land. If some of them
had to go before a Land Board again
they’d have to amend their statements of
assets in a radical way.
When the Commonwealth-States agree-
ment on soldier-settlement was first
reached it was commonly accepted by the
parties to it that State officers had the
experience and specialised knowledge of
particular areas which Commonwealth
officers could not approach, and that,
therefore, the State men should handle
the technical aspects of settlement, leav-
ing the broader national aspects to the
Commonwealth. But Mr. Dedman wants
to be the little tin-god of the whole show,
and returned men must whistle and wait
for their land. It is one of the most
damnable sins of Mr. Dedman’s crowd
that willing and eager men should be
denied their opportunity through petty
officialdom, and it ought not to be for-
gotten when the election comes.
A Captured City.
“Norther” : Commercial Brisbane is be-
ginning to wonder whether the Federal
Government proposes to establish a sort
of branch Federal Capital there. So
many buildings have been acquired—a
euphemism meaning grabbed—by the
Commonwealth, and so many more are
threatened with it, that a lot of Bris-
bane’s trade and commercial enterprises
will soon have to revert to the Oriental
habit of erecting tents in bazaars and do-
ing business there.
Since the war the value of Brisbane
buildings grabbed by the Commonwealth
runs into at least £350,000. The grab-
bing is going on, and it has reached the
stage where people evicted in previous
grabs and who have managed to get in
somewhere else look like being evicted
again. It is all, of course, a commentary
on the Commonwealth’s Department of
Works and Housing, which finds itself
unable to erect new buildings. The differ-
ence is that whereas the Commonwealth
can simply grab somebody else’s building
and chuck the occupiers out, no such
remedy is available to the dispossessed.
Interested individuals and organisa-
tions are talking about calling protest
meetings, but protest meetings are un-
likely to scare these Government chaps,
who take their power of acquisition from
Section 51 of the Constitution —a section
which, like Section 92, is being either
abused or worked to death. It mightn’t
be so bad if the dispossessed could build
for themselves, but they can’t, not only
because of labor and material shortages
but because the State Government isn’t
issuing building-permits for commercial
premises.
What the Federal crowd-expect to do
with the grabbed offices isn’t clear—
probably most of them will be used for
the preparation and storage of plans.
Meantime, there’s every chance that in
the cold war between bureaucracy and
the people the bureaucrats have almost
captured their first city.
A Dollar Disappointment.
Just before he left for the Prime
Ministers’ conference in London, Mr.
Chifley let out the real reason for his
annoyance with the alleged “dealers in
blackmarket dollar wool” who had the
temerity to buy our wool in the open
market and then sell it to someone else
at a profit or a loss —either in cash or
kind, the cash being dollars and the kind
American goods bought with dollar
credits. Our Mr. Chifley had apparently
been depending on the wool sales
of the past two sell-
ing seasons to break
down his dollar defi-
cit, knowing that the
world was hungry
for wool and
America as hungry
as anybody.
Mr. Chifley’s ad-
visers had presum-
ably told him that
the U.S.A. was good
for 600,000 bales of
wool. At an aver-
age of £AIOO a bale,
that would have been
£A6O million, or
roughly $2OO million.
But America bought
less than two-thirds
of the amount ex-
pected, andj Australia
thereby dropped
about $6O million.
Other countries,
however, bought our
wool heavily at ster-
ling prices and resold
it to America for
dollars, the upshot
being that Mr.
Chifley had to an-
nounce a “worsening
position of Austra-
lian dollar budget-
ing” because, “de-
spite the rigid cpn-
trol of dollar im-
ports this fiscal year,
Australia will finish
with a substantial
dollar deficit which.
on present calculations, may amount to
about 150 million dollars.”
It may be some consolation that that
isn’t a bad comparison with last year’s
dollar deficit of $236 million ; but;
Federal authorities are very seriously
concerned at the drop in American pur-
chases, because of the effect it will have on
future dollar discussions at Canberra.
There is no indication that American pur-
chases will increase to any extent in the
next three months, and our dollar position
is deteriorating.
There’s another aspect to it, one for
which Mr. Chifley and his Government
must accept a good deal of blame. There
was a chance of building a fair export
trade of Australian worsteds to the
U.S.A.; there was also a chance that
American and British textile manufac-
turers would open up factories in Aus-
tralia, Our worsted exports are falling
simply because Australian makers can’t
compete with British and European
makers, who are able to undersell Aus-
tralia by as much as 3s. a yard.
The reason for this, of course, is that
whereas other countries are working flat-
out to increase production so as to reduce
costs, our costs of production keep on
rising while production itself keeps on
falling, largely because the workers have
been encouraged by Labor leaders for
years to loaf on the job. Mr. Chifley is
now crying for greater production, but
he has left his fun a little late, and what
with taxation, rising costs of Government,
Government interference with and threats
to private enterprise, and general “go-
slow,” overseas textile-makers aren’t now
so enamored with the notion of building
factories here.


*
h
Keep
to—
craves*
«,.r y» nr
5728 E-R
Obtainable
in 10’s & 20’s
CARRERAS LIMITED-OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
POLITICAL POINTS
As “Billy” himself remarked on Satur-
day, it is curious that until William
Morris Hughes passed Lloyd George’s
record of 54 years eight months and 17
days as an elected member of Parliament
no one thought to point out that the
other Welshman’s tally was not the
longest in British Parliamentary history.
That distinction apparently belongs to
Charles Pelham Villiers, who was elected
to the House of Commons on January
10, 1835, and represented Wolverhampton
until the day of his death 63 years and.
six days later. Justin McCarthy de-
scribed Villiers as:
the nominal leader of the Freetrade party
in Parliament a man of aristocratic
family and surroundings, of remarkable
ability and of the steadiest fidelity to the
cause he had undertaken. His eloquent
argumentation power served the great pur-
pose of drawing the attention of the
country to the whole question.
Villiers was Judge-Advocate-General
1852-58 and president of the Poor Law
Board 1859-66, Another whose years of
service exceeded Lloyd George’s was Lord
Palmerston. His was an Irish peerage,
which did not debar him from sitting in
the Commons. He entered Parliament
in 1807 and died as Prime Minister in
1865, and during all that time he was
seldom out of office. He was Secretary
for War 1809-28 under five Prime Minis-
ters ; from 1830 onwards foreign affairs
were his main interest, in and out
of office. Palmerston was twice Prime
Minister, and his two periods as Govern-
ment leader totalled nine years 156 days
—exceeding the reigns of both Hughes
and Lloyd George. But Villiers, Lloyd
George and Palmerston are dead. “The
Little Digger,” at 84, is very much alive,
and Anzac Day found him at his cus-
tomary stand in Martin-place, Sydney.
May he beat ’em all yet!
One of U.N.O.’s innumerable sub-
committees has warned all countries to
prepare for a depression, and has drawn
up a plan to help them combat it. Chief
recommendations are increased expendi-
ture on public works, higher Govern-
ment allowances and pensions, subsidies
to reduce prices and raise wages. Social-
ists will nod their heads approvingly so
far, but the next two points will pull
them up with a round turn. These, are
reduced taxation and reduced profit-
margins in Government enterprises. The
printing-press may enable them to square
up increased expenditure with reduced
taxes, but how to reduce non-existent
profit-margins on Government enter-
prises will be a problem to make the
woolliest brains-truster swallow his pencil.
These “moderate trade-union leaders”
talk an awful lot of rot at times. At its
Easter conference the Victorian A.L.P.
decided to ask Canberra to legislate for
“clean ballots.” Afterwards Mr. Stout,
of Melbourne Trades Hall, said it would
be “impracticable” to introduce a uni-
form ballot system for all trade-unions
because of “the varying types of industry
covered by unions.” Yet, irrespective of
the type of industry in which they are
engaged, all unionists vote under a uni-
form ballot system at State and Federal
elections.
With Bunnerong intermittently on the
blink, blackouts were a commonplace in
scores of Sydney suburbs last week, but
they were as nothing compared to the
blackout in the N.S.W. State Cabinet
which was trying to decide which of
several plans for power-rationing would
make it least unpopular. It is over three
weeks since a “power committee” recom-
mended splitting Sydney into four zones,
one of which would be blacked out each
fourth working day. Cabinet, it seems,
considers this solution too drastic, and it
has appointed a Ministerial sub-committee
to study alternative suggestions. Fate
and circumstances are being rather un-
kind to the McGirrs. After all, it is a
little unfair that they should have to
turn aside from dreamy contemplation
of schemes for damming the Darling in
10 years or harnessing the Snowy in 20
to waste their time on a problem that
needs immediate attention.
In Comrade Sharpley’s story, told in
several capital-city dailies, there is little
.that is new to students of Moscow-
directed operations in Australia, save the
penitent’s own confessions of ballot-
rigging, The disclosures make no men-
tion of the close association of present
“Labor” Ministers and A.L.P, executives
with the building-up of the Communist
party in the past Some trade-union
leaders who are now walloping the Com-
munist joss most angrily actually helped
to set it up.
N.Q. tobacco-growers have come to the
conclusion that it wouldn’t be a bad time
to start a factory of their own to make
up tobacco and cigarettes, and they’ve
decided to ask Queensland Government
for a loan to build and equip it. Growers
will be invited to put in 5 p.c, of the
gross value of their crops to help it along,
the sum to be regarded as a loan. Well,
the time was never better, and the Han-
lons are very sensitive about the demands
of North Queensland just now.
A Sydney paper attacking the Vic-
torian Government for seeking a Gov-
ernor from Britain, contending that the
job should go to an Australian, is par-
ochial indeed. The appointment of
Isaac Isaacs 20 years ago established the
fact that an Australian might occupy the
highest position in the land. The Chifley
Government’s selection of the present
incumbent of Yarralumla and the appoint-
ments of Generals Lavarack and North-
cott in Brisbane and Sydney confirmed
the principle. But there is no reason
why the honor of representing the King
in Australia should be reserved exclusively
for Australians. The argument cuts both
ways. In choosing R. G, Casey as
Governor of Bengal Britain honored not
only him, but Australia also.
Calwell’s latest misapplication of the
White Australia policy is even sillier than
the usual run of his decisions. The
victim is a Siamese woman, nurse to the
children of a clergyman, by whom she
has been employed for 21 years, the
last nine in Australia. This is a case
where the Minister cannot raise objections
on economic grounds, nor in view of the
woman’s years—she is over 50 —can he
hold that she is a threat to the future
whiteness of Australia. Clearly it is a
case where the Minister should use his
discretion. But unfortunately this Minis-
ter has no discretion.
There was consternation among the
whales last week when news got around
that a new whaling venture was to be
established with headquarters at Shark
Bay (W.A.). For a while there was talk
of a mass migration to the safer waters
of the Northern Hemisphere. Then
further information came to hand, and it
was discovered that the enterprise was
to be a Federal Government one, spon-
sored by Mr, Pollard, Minister for Com-
merce. The collective “blow” of relief
which greeted this announcement caused
a tidal wave which almost submerged the
Antarctic continent.
Acting Prime Minister Holloway has
revealed the real reason behind the
Federal Government’s support of the 40-
hour week. It appears that the motive
was not to give the workers more leisure,
but to increase efficiency in industry:
History has proved that the average
manufacturer will not improve methods
until a spur, such as a reduction of working
hours, makes it necessary.
Now that that principle has been made
clear everything should be plain sailing,
We have only to make the week short
enough and we shall have the most effi-
cient industry in the world.
Mr. Attlee made a speech to Britain’s
schoolteachers the other day in which he
told them that “the last thing the British
people would accept was authoritarian,
uniform discipline,” The history of the
British race certainly supports that view-
point, but isn’t Attlee’s’ Socialist policy,
like that of his guest from this country,
actuated by the belief that they can be
made to accept it?,
During the past week the Communist
question received more space in the Aus-
tralian Press than it did in the preceding
six months. Somewhere among the
welter of words were hints or suggestions
that Federal “Labor” was about to do
something about the Comrades. There
was talk of legislation to enforce secret
ballots, or a “purge” in the civil service,
of further prosecutions. C.P.-leader
Fadden was near to the truth when he
said:
The Government cannot and will not get
tough with the Communists because on the
Communist issue its Ministers are a leader-
less legion and are hopelessly divided in
their views. They are afraid to take really
effective measures against the party as a
whole for fear of losing militant unions’
support when it comes to endorsement and
at the subsequent Federal poll.
Latest Government move in the “free-
medicine” shindy is a suggestion that the
trade-unions will be used in order to
put the Government’s case before the
people. The doctors’ reply is the an-
nouncement of a campaign through Press
and radio to give the public the medical
profession’s point of view. So far Senator
McKenna cannot claim any great degree
of success; latest Government figures
claim only 117 doctors to be co-operating
with the scheme. There are 7000 in
Australia.
It remained for Mr. Aikens,.the Mun-
dingburra Independent Labor member, to
sum up the Hanlon seats-redistribution
bill;
Mr. Deputy Speaker, by the grace of
God and the unconscious humor of the
Parliamentary Draftsman, this bill is
entitled “The Electoral Districts Bill,” but,
after hearing the Premier and reading the
bill, I think it should be entitled “The
Electoral Three-card Trick.”
And the “rammer” for the manipulator
is, as usual, the poor old trusting work-
ing-man.
Justly indignant because Mr. Dedman’s
Department of Post-war Reconstruction
had, since January, 1947, trained only
32 of the 4300 returned men it had ac-
cepted for training in building trades,
because “Comrade Buhner, of the
8.W.1.U., told the Government it couldn’t
train any more,” Mr. Bolton, head of
the R.S.L. in N.S.W., said 90 p.c. of
them had given up. “You can imagine
what they think of their country and
the promises it made,” he commented.
It’s not the country that’s at fault, but
the mob that’s running it.
When the Federated Taxpayers’ Asso-
ciation met in Brisbane yesterday for its
annual palaver, about the most impor-
tant theme debated was ways and means
of getting rid of the “illogical, unjust and
sectional” pay-roll tax. Up to date the
Chifley Government has displayed every
intention of hanging on to it, but in an
election year you never know.
Mr. Calwell and other “Labor” Min-
isters, whose stock reply to newspaper
criticism is a demand for the disciplin-
ing of the Press, will no doubt approve
motions passed by the N.S.W. Trades
and Labor Council last week having as
their object the stifling of criticism of
the “Labor” party. Complaining of the
publication of “distorted facts re the
Labor Government,” one delegate urged
the setting-up of a committee represent-
ing newspaper unions. This, he said,
“could bring about a complete stoppage
of newspapers unless they provide the
truth or something like it.” A motion
proposing the setting-up of a committee
was moved by the Transport Workers’
delegate. The P.I.E.U. man opposed it and
the A.J.A. rep. supported it, as did Com-
munist Hughes, of the Clerks’ Union.
Another Communist, white-collar miner
Edgar Ross, said that newspapers “could
be disciplined if the Government set up
a statutory committee of ethics.” The
“withholding of supplies of newsprint
would be another method of disciplining
them.” Motion carried “on the voices.”
A point of no significance, of course, is
that the resolution referred only to daily
and weekly papers. The Communist
“Tribune” is a bi-weekly.
Officially Eire severed the last tie with
the British Commonwealth last week.
But politically it was cut on September 3,
1939, though not with the approval of
all Eire’s citizens, many thousands of
whom crossed the Irish Sea to fight with
the British.
That international wheat agreement has
been signed by 41 nations, and it hit the
U.S. Senate for ratification just after
Easter. A similar agreement went to the
same Senate last year, but was heaved out
with execrations. This one needs a two-
thirds majority in the U.S. Senate and
ratification by a majority of the signatory
nations before July 2 next, or it fizzles
out.
In Victoria they’re hoping to speed
up the turn-round of ships by running
wharfies from their homes direct to ships.
The boys are advised by press and radio
what ships they are to work for the day
and where to get the bus. An estimate is
a saving of 4000 man-hours a week. All
very fine, but nobody need imagine
Premier McGirr would agree to it in
Sydney. What, give them direct travel
to wharves and lose all that tram and
bus revenue! And suppose the darned
habit spread to big factories!
A bad law always tends to turn honest
citizens into lawbreakers. It is happen-
ing frequently with the law which im-
poses penal taxation on honest people
who dare to invest their savings in road-
carrying vehicles —dues imposed to pro-
tect the rickety and money-wasting State
railways. The Queensland Transport
Commission announces that it “is making
a determined effort to suppress illicit
freight-running across the N.S.W. border
into Queensland.” Illicit freight! The
stuff they carry is so badly needed, and
the railways so consistently fail to carry
it, that the people who want it are pre-
pared to pay heavily for it, and those
who carry it risk confiscation of their
vehicles if convicted twice. Section 92
of the Australian Constitution gives
Australians the right to trade and travel
freely between the States. It is being
abused so much by both States and Com-
monwealth that it is an interesting ques-
tion as to who are the real criminals.
Next time Vyshinsky turns up at
U.N.O, with a dove of peace shivering
on his shoulder and a plea for general
disarmament on his lips someone should
quote to him the following extract from
a Soviet university textbook:
'The masking of purely aggressive and
predatory aims for the sake of which wars
are undertaken is constantly encountered
in history. To the same group of examples
of the concealment of predatory ends be-
hind noble principles also belong the in-
stances of the exploitation of the idea of
disarmament and pacifist propaganda in the
broad sense of the word for one’s own
purposes. From time immemorial the idea
of disarmament has been one of the most
favored forms of diplomatic dissimulation
of the true motives and plans of those
Governments which have been seized by
such a sudden “love of peace.”
If our representatives on U.N.O. like to
hunt it up they will find the passage on
page 707 of Eugene Tarle’s Diplomatic
History, published in Moscow in 1945
under the editorship of V. M. Potemkin.
Eminent authors are the worst of all
guides to political sanity. Shaw’s belated
rejection of the Red box-and-dice recalls
the Byron-Shelley hymns of hate against
Castlereagh. The forgotten men who
spread Gastlereagh’s name over the map
of N. S. Wales were immeasurably wiser
in their generation. Castlereagh was the
chief architect of the generous peace with
France which has endured for 133 years
and may never be broken.


THE NEW SCOURGE OF ASIA.


Society
“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS.”
“Pawang”: The British Marriage
Guidance Council has made the discovery
that mankind can be divided into three
distinct types—endomorphs, mesomorphs
and ectomorphs. You are an endomorph
if you have a large tummy, a large chest
and low development of bone, skin, hair
and muscle, which characteristics make
for love of comfort and good food, greed
for affection and need of company when
troubled. You are a mesomorph if you
are big-boned, big-muscled and tough
and given to self-assertion, high energy
output, directness of manner and need
of action when in trouble. The ecto-
morph is tall, slim, flat of chest and
fragile and practises restraint in posture,
is unsociable, youthfully intent, quick in
action and needs solitude when up against
it. The council offers no suggestions as
to whether endomorphs would be happier
married to mesomorphs or ectomorphs
than to one of their own kind, so it is
one step behind a friend who had a theory
that disaster was inevitable if only sons
married only daughters, if younger
brothers with elder sisters married elder
sisters with younger brothers, and so on.
He carried his principle even into ordinary
social intercourse and explained a violent
altercation he had with a guest at dinner
on the score that they were in one or
other of the forbidden categories.
* * * *
“Col M.”: My doctor claims that one
of his patients, a man whose job it is to
check the size of fish brought in by
trawlers, has been tormenting him for
years with tales of the succulent items he
comes across in his profession. The
doctor has often dropped hints as to his
own dexterity with a fish-knife, but with-
out success. The other night he thought it
had happened at last. After treatment
the fish-inspector produced a brown-
paper parcel and opened it on the table.
“Snapper,” diagnosed the doc. “Not
too large—beautiful.” The man agreed
and told him that the only way to cook it
was to stuff it with seasoning and bake
it —“Done like that it will melt in your
mouth.” He then wrapped the fish up
again, tucked it under his arm, and
moved towards the door saying “Any-
way, I’ll let you know how it goes—my
mouth’s watering already.”
* * * *
“Jurutulis”: So U.N.O. plans to build
a special chamber for prayer and medi-
tation in its vast h.q. in Manhattan, and
it is considered that the appointments will
be so simple that even Russians could
use it for non-religious meditation. The
decision to build the chamber is the
result of worldwide demands for a place
where delegates can seek guidance from
their respective deities, presumably in-
cluding Allah, Buddha, Confucius,
Ahriman, Brahm and a few thousand
minor Asiatic dieties. I am inclined to
think that the advice the various dele-
gates will get from their supernatural
sources after their period of contempla-
tion will be similar in kind to what Presi-
dent McKinley received after a night of
supplication spent on his knees in the
White House, when the question of
whether the Philippines should be given
back to Spain was agitating the nation.
The advice he was given exactly followed
the decisions already taken by the various
committees of generals, admirals, eco-
nomists and politicians.
* * * *
“Clooter”; The battle of the sexes
took an intriguing turn when stewards
on the Government-run Q.E.A. Constella-
tion air route to England went on strike.
It was at first announced that the
men struck because the bosses refused
to place the air-hostesses (which is a
fancy name for stewardess) under the
jurisdiction of the chief steward, and this
seemed such a silly reason that the hand
of the übiquitous Communist was sus-
pected. Then the matter went to one of
those “streamlined arbitrators,” and it
turned out that the male stewards were
jealous of the female stewards. After
the —er—air-hostesses joined the aircraft,
said a steward witness, “all the glory
that was ours suddenly disappeared be-
cause we were no longer in the lime-
light.” The poor fellow appeared to be
quite overcome, and it seemed that his
fellows were equally wounded in their
sensitivity. There was argument as to
whether or not male or female stewards
could best handle women passengers and
“ Shouldn't We have put this back, doctor ?”
babies, and, when this was written, the
arbitrator had reserved his decision.
Without wishing to influence it in any
way, and with all due respect to the
arbitrator, haven’t we male travellers any
say in it? What care we for the glamor
of a buck steward?
* * * *
“Niloc”: The campaign against
Sydney’s jay-walkers is still raging; a
slight improvement in pedestrian naviga-
tion is claimed, but this, I have been
informed by a taxi-driver (who should
know) will vanish immediately the well-
behaved country folk down for the Show,
go back home. At any rate the war on
jay-walkers is doing no harm. Motorists
generally are enjoying the sound of the
Law’s wrath being directed at someone
else, and last week even pedestrians had
a chance to smile. At one of the busy
intersections a high-ranking policeman
with silver braid on his cap had occasion
to attract the attention of a constable
riding by on a motor-cycle. The con-
stable did not hear him; so, calling out
and waving his arms, the officer stepped
off the pavement and followed him. Still
oblivious, the motor-cycle cop found a
space, opened his throttle, and dis-
appeared from view. The man with the
braid was left in the shoal of cars, hop-
ping this way and that to avoid them,
attempting to grin and blushing as any
booked pedestrian would have him
blush. ,
* * * *
“I Bod”; Egg-powder (B. 13/4/’49)?
The senior officer inspecting a cookhouse
at Bandiana (Vic.) in 1942 commented
on the color-scheme displayed through-
out, He agreed that the bright yellow
tone had a most hygienic appearance, but
suggested that white would have been
more suitable. The “babbler” replied
that yellow paint was all that could be
obtained, and that it was “flamin’ poor
paint, anyhow.” Stung by this reflection
on the Army’s efficiency, the S.O. ordered
an inquiry, to find that the babbler and
his mate had mixed up the unit’s supply
of egg-powder and applied it to the walls,
,
“Nakhoda”; A recent Geneva report
places the total number of doctors in the
world at 850,000, dosing a population of
2,200,000,000. The proportion varies
from one sawbones to every 1200 people in
N, America to one doctor or medicine-
man to 12,000 people in Asia and Africa.
I knew a doctor who, under the old
regime of the Dutch, served the needs
of 70,000 natives in a remote district in
"Java, His methods had perforce to be
adapted to the situation. His station was
in a disused fort built by the English
during the Raffles occupation. Every
morning before his arrival his mandur
separated the cases into eye, ear, nose,
throat, diseases of the skin, etc., with a
special division for persons mauled by
tigers. At the appointed hour he rushed
out of his office followed by a native
bearing an enormous jar of ointment.
He would slap a dash of the mess on the
stomachs of one lot, telling them to go
outside and rub it in. Then he would
-put drops in the- eyes of the next lot
and so on ; and having dealt with the
mob in this summary fashion, he would
segregate a couple of particularly interest-
ing cases. Then he would become a
thoroughly conscientious member of his
profession. He would spend hours on
antiseptic measures, perform operations
with all the skill he had acquired in one
of the most exacting medical academies
in Europe, and go home more or less
happy. He told me that he would go
mad with despair struggling with the
sea of sickness around him unless he
treated at least one case a day according
to the standards of his profession.
* * * *
“Bo’’: Just as the sound of protesting
rubber as a car shrieks around a comer
on two wheels is music to the tyre-
manufacturers’ ears, so the sight of a car
“riding” Sydney’s tram-tracks is a vision
of beauty to their eyes. To the “back-
room boys” of the department must go
the credit of devising wheels which, with
such splendid efficiency, grind the rails
to a degree of knife-edged sharpness
that carves the tread of a motor-tyre in
a minimum of time. Both the motor-
owners and tram-travellers of Sydney
must follow with great interest, therefore,
the experiments being carried out in
Brisbane with rubber-tyred tram-wheels.
But the interest will be purely academic.
Their 1902-type mechanical monstrosities
—how O. Henry’s juicy term “peripatetic
sarcophagus” fits them!—will, they are
well aware, continue to give passengers
floating livers and late appointments as
they have for years; ever the optimists,
they live on, too, in the hope that one
day their Socialist Government will have
its mind made up for it whether the
honor of losing a million or two each year
will fall to buses or trams. In the mean-
time, the best bet of the motoring
fraternity is to concentrate on propaganda
for the substituting of rubber tram-rails
for steel ones.
* * * *
“Belubula”: An indignant descendant
of that Captain Dumaresq after whom
a river, a village and several streets have
been named, has complained that the
new A.B.C. pronunciation of Da-merick
is incorrect, the correct form being Dew-
mmick. The A.8.C., be it noted, after
mispronouncing many Australian names
for years, has at last had a list drawn up
by a committee of experts, and inhabit-
ants of such places as Temora, Meekath-
arra and Mugincoble will no longer
writhe on hearing them broadcast as
Temm’ra, M6-kath-ara and Mewjing-
coable. A Sydney newspaper writer
hopped in on the subject and, among
other things, said that Canowindra would
now be Canowndra as the local people
pronounced it. If he took the trouble
to listen to local people he would hear
the third vowel given its proper sound —
a sort of under-ripple, which is probably
how the abos said it. Incidentally, the
lucerne town was the original of Kylie
Tennant’s Tiburon.
* * * *
“Macnell”: The patron saint of gallant ships
and of the men who fought and died in them
will find it hard to forgive the transfer ot
cruiser Aurora from the R.N. to the Chinese
Nationalist Government. With the former, in
a Service never famed for harbor-keeping
proclivities, she rated a name for gunnery,
actions in and out of, ships sunk and distances
steamed which was unique; she even earned a
name from the enemy—the Italians called her
“The Silver Phantom.” In Chinese service her
crew deserted with her to the Communists, and,
crowning indignity after the Malta raids through
which her British gunners fought her, she was
sunk off Manchuria last month, by her former
Nationalist owners, with three 10001 b. bombs.
Aurora was sister-ship to the famous Penelope
(C. S. Forester’s The Ship}, and the well-nigh
omniscient exactitude of her six six-inchers, and
her fast, long-range steaming powers, were
important contributory factors in the present
acceptance of the 6in. cruiser as the standard
cruiser in Commonwealth navies. Her reputa-
tion for a.-a. gunnery was first established at
Narvik, and that of her main armament in a
brisk night action against the Germans during
the Spitzbergen expedition. From then on she
was more often in than out of action; the tally
of her guns included one cruiser, 10 destroyers,
three minesweepers, seven landing-craft and 21
merchantmen sunk; nine more destroyers were
damaged, and no claim is made for ships hit
in bombarding enemy harbors. This record
accounts for her being picked to take the King
to battered Malta, and to give Eisenhower and
Admiral Cunningham their grandstand view of
the Sicilian invasion. Once, dry-docked m
Malta, she was under daily air-bombardment
for three months. Here a large bomb missed
her by 20ft. During her Mediterranean service
she was with Penelope in the famous Force
“K” under Captain Agnew, who commanded
Vanguard on the Royal tour to S. Africa. She
was in at the N. African landings, at Pantellana,
and at the invasion of Italy, and wore out the
barrels of her 4in. a.-a. guns three times. On
the extremely dangerous run between Cos, Leros
and Alexandria in 1943 she caught a heavy
bomb—her first direct hit of all the hundreds
intended for her —and retired to dock. Soon
repaired, she put to sea for more, and remained
afloat in proud service to be given, after the
cease-fire, to China and an ignominious death.
But she went down under her new name,
Chunking; Aurora, as her real crew proved,
was unsinkable.
* * * *
“R.E.”: Who said the younger genera-
tion had lost its enterprise? At a factory-
picnic on a Melbourne beach the
organiser ran novelty games for the
children. He commenced with a few
simple examples: “The first kiddy to find
a shell,” or “a soft drink bottle-stopper,”
articles common enough on any beach.
Then he sprang a tough one. “The first
kiddy to bring up three hairs from a
horse’s tail.” “That’ll keep ’em quiet for
the rest of the afternoon,” he announced
smugly to his assistant. He was goggle-
eyed when, a few minutes later, he was
besieged by an eager crowd of young-
sters, each bearing the required three
hairs. Enlightenment came later when an
angry sideshow proprietor stalked grimly
up. The boys had stormed the merry-go-
round and left his mounts virtually tail-
less!
* * * *
“Bughouse”: It is odd to look at a
bicycle and realise that it is the only
90 per cent, perfect means of mechanical
transport that man has been able to in-
vent. A bike weighing 201 b. will easily
support a man weighing 1601 b
times its own weight. Yet take the weight
of a motor-bike; of a motor-car; of a
railway-coach; of an aeroplane. Com-
pare their weights with the trivial weight
of the human frame —the whole thing
is out of proportion. The vast weight of
the trans-Australia train carries only a
hundred or so people. The same thing
applies to pit haulage; as a shaft grows
deeper it becomes necessary to provide
a more powerful winding-engine. But it
isn’t the dead-weight of ore or coal
hauled that necessitates the increase; it
is the weight of the hauling-rope. A
steel-wire rope capable of lifting a four-
ton load from 3000 ft. will itself weigh
over four tons,
* * * *
“Taswegian”: A private-hotel owner
at Mildura seems to agree with Raven-
Hart and Thomas Wood on Aus-
tralian waitresses (B. 23/3/’49). But he
doesn’t worry ; he has got rid of his. He
now puts the urns of tea and coffee, cups
and saucers, fruit and soup on a table in
the centre of the dining-room. Guests
write their order for the main course
and sweets against their names on a
menu at the serving counter, then help
themselves to the first course. When
their order is ready the guests’ names
are called ; they pass in their soup-plates
and collect their dinner. It is simple,
quick and certain—you don’t get beef
when you order lamb —and it breaks the
ice among the guests. The owner likes
it too; he serves the same number of
guests as four waitresses did*
AUSTERITY CRIPPS.
“The totally unexpected and, smashing defeat of
Labor in London and County Council elections....
will make it hard for the Government to sell Britons
the austerity programme outlined in Sir Stafford
Cripps’s Budget.” — “Time.”
The Chancellor rose, austere and grim;
It needs but a fleeting glance at him
In that mobile visage to be descried
Asceticism personified.
Meat at his meals is a thing forbid
And he wouldn’t tackle a tot or a tid
Or blow the froth off a pewter’s rim
For anything you could offer him.
And, as in his looks, there was comfort cold
In the sinister story his Budget told,
The bitter tale that fell from the lips
Of the Labor Chancellor, Stafford Cripps.
There were hopeful faces ere he began
His say-so, visions of cheaper scran
And lowered taxes, and more of these
Necessities or amenities
Which, wheresoever you chance to dwell,
Make life a little more liveable.
But chins grew longer and hearts more cold
As they heard the dismal tale unrolled
That Socialist aims are no more things which
Are easy to gain by “soaking the rich.”
With the rich exploited, the burden slips
To the workers’ shoulders, hints Stafford Cripps.
Free social services all your days,
How pleasant it sounds! But somebody pays.
And the more you get of such things as those,
Ever the stiffer taxation grows
And prices rocket on boots and clothes.
Till there comes a glimmer to you and me
That, after all, it’s our £ s. d.
Which makes these social services “free.”
And the further and faster they go that way
Ever the more and the more we’ll pay
And times grow harder, I fear, for whips
Of blokes less Spartan than Stafford Cripps.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Zake”; A Sydney flapper daily, which
for years has been trying to make up its
mind whether to pat the Prime Minister
on the back or kick him in the stern, in-
dulgently allowed an admirer quite a
bit of space in its alleged news columns
to pour a bibful of sentimental slobber
over “Chif.” on his departure for the
London conference. According to the
blurb, “Chif.” is known among his in-
timates as the “Iron Man” because of
his willingness to undertake journeys
abroad despite the “severe physical strain”
these impose. What, after all, did such
pansies as Burke and Wills, who wal-
lowed in the extravagant luxury of pigskin
saddles on their journeys, and Messrs.
Blaxland, Lawson and Wentworth, in
their pleasure jaunt over the Blue
Mountains, know of such physical hard-
ships as are suffered by 1949’s Iron Man
when he goes abroad? Think of poor
Ben having to call on all his physical
reserves to climb the 12 steps or to
get into the Constellation; the awful
strain of reclining in a sponge-rubber
seat and having to put up with the hard-
ship of reaching his hand out every now
and again to take his cup of tea or coffee
from the air-hostess; of the strain of
trying to read his thrillers with only a
strong electric light over his shoulder;
of having to walk from the plane to
reach his limousine at the London end!
And of what toughness to stand up to the
enormous physical effort of bending to
put his shoes down outside the door of
his hotel suite!
* * * *
“Arfos”; Rude though it may be to
contradict a lady, I am compelled to
correct the misleading assertion by “Ida
D.” (B. 13/4/’49) that Clara Butt’s family
name was Hook “and her sister Nellie
visited Australia under her own name.”
Ethel (not Nellie) used their mother’s
maiden name (Hook) professionally to
avoid confusion with her more celebrated
sister. So did Pauline, an excellent
soprano ; but their brother, whom I once
visited at his Long Island home, became
a well-known actor in America under
his own name, Lawson Butt. The father,
Henry Albert Butt, was a ship’s captain,
and Clara narrowly escaped being born
at sea, a hasty landing at Southwick, a
little fishing-village near Brighton, being
made just in time for the “happy event.”
Her youngest sister. Hazel, prettiest of
the bunch, completed a quartet who sang
at the Albert Hall in “The Birth of the
Flowers,” composed for them by Liza
Lehmann, with a part for Clara reaching
down to a bottom C, a note well outside
the compass of any ordinary contralto.
Her voice, like Melba’s and Caruso’s,
was unique of its kind, a vocal pheno-
menon that still remains unequalled.
Clara’s first oratorio engagement
at the age of 19 brought her the
modest fee of five guineas, but so
sensational was her success that
within a few months she was re-
ceiving offers of 70, 80 and 100
guineas. On American and Aus-
tralian tours with her husband, Kennerley
Rumford, concert receipts often went into
four figures.
* * * *
“Den”: From Gladstone to Rock-
hampton they’re arguing whether the big
blow of March ’49 was the worst ever
or only the worst since 1918. There’s
no doubt, though, that it was one of the
most devastating in Australian history,
hitting as it did two large and populous
centres. The cyclone came out of the
east, swept through Gladstone with
ruinous effect, swung inland and came
back north-east to dead-centre on Rock-
hampton’s main street. Even a month
later piles of twisted iron and shattered
wood, propped-up verandahs, missing
awnings, roofless buildings and leaning
churches marked its progress through the
district, while further out in the bush
thousands of uprooted trees, some of them
big fellows, showed the way it had gone
in what was a real night of terror. One
station-owner estimated his personal loss
at £2OOO plus a week’s work in rounding
up stampeded cattle; Yeppoon, on the
coast 20 miles from Rockhampton,
suffered damage up to £30,000, while
Rockhampton and Gladstone are still
working out their losses. Rocky’s un-
official list is half a million.
* * * *
“Plop”; “Children in panic” said a
headline in Sydney “Sunday Sun,” re-
cording a fire in a picture-theatre at
Gosford (N.S.W.). I read on to find that
fortunately none of, the youngsters was
injured despite the report that “scream-
ing children ran into the street” and that
“some of the terrified children knocked
down attendants attempting to enter the
theatre.” Now, if the theatre had been
filled with adults I would have expected
panic with a grim list of casualties ; I
could not see panic among the kids who
go along in force on Saturday after-
noon, and who would no doubt put the
Western-plus-fire as the best sixpenn’-
orth ever offered by the management.
Supporting this theory was the “Sunday
Herald’s” account of the same incident:
“When the first inkling of fire came they
went out in orderly fashion on directions
from the ushers. There was no panic.”
*** 4 *
“Columbia”: The season just ended at
our swimming-hole will be remembered
for the attempt by our most enthusiastic
diver to plumb one baffling corner. De-
ciding that more weight would add
momentum to his plunge, he hurtled
from the high bank with a large flat
stone in his hands. At the water’s sur-
face, however, some natural law came
into force. The stone stopped for an
instant till the lad’s head struck it, then
we hauled the groggy trier from his
watery Waterioo.
* * * *
“Ex-Dig”: The Digger who suffered
least discomfort with his feet in the
winter of 1916-17 was a battalion cobber
who claimed that he had never worn
socks in his life. Although Army rules
ordained socks and quick changes (each
man carried three pairs), Wall whipped
off the foot-coverings directly an in-
spection was over and reverted to his
sockless habit. When the ice was biting
through the thickest hose (especially socks
in any way damp), bis weather-hardened
hooves gave him no trouble. Other
Diggers shuddered when they saw him
drawing his boots over his bare feet; but
he really had the laugh on them.
* * *
“Beau Forte”: By the way the school-
boy looked at the money—and at me —
“Come on — don't let's disappoint
her."
I could see that he thought a bob was
poor pay for a half-hour’s work and that
next time I had a few handbills to de-
liver I could do it myself. But what
magnificent payment a bob for such a
job would have been when I was a kid!
We had to work for our pennies then. I
still remember the lady who engaged me
to clean her house-spouting. Two solid
hours I put in on that job and she came
to light with a cup of tea and a bun and
seemed a little set back when X made it
known that I expected monetary recogni-
tion. After a lot of moaning, her old
man came across—one penny! Then
there was the doctor whose car broke
down about a mile out of town. He put
me on to watch it while he went in for
a spare part. He came back on a push-
bike an hour later and left his grid for
me to take home for him. But he paid
“Look out , Sarah, he's going to sling that pie-dish!"
fairly well —threepence! Still, we had
our windfalls even in those hard days.
There was a chemist in town who paid
sixpence for a pickle-bottle full of leeches,
and there was a dam just out of town
that just teemed with the little blood-
suckers. All we had to do was to strip
off, get into the water and stir up the
mud. Then we would pick them off our
bodies and bottle them. It meant a little
blood-letting, but we didn’t mind. There
was money in the game—nearly sixpence
an hour.
* * * *
“Ding”:. “Dong” (B. 13/4/’49) cer-
tainly makes hard work of his banking
transactions. I wonder why he did not
write out his own cheque and bank it to
his wife’s credit; or, if he likes it the hard
way, ask his bankers for a cheque payable
to his wife. “Dong” would probably feel
he had something to complain about if
the Savings Bank made it a practice to
accept cheques of which he was the
owner and credited them to other people’s
accounts without inquiry. His statement
that he could have opened a new account
with a shilling and then deposited the
cheque is a new one on me, and I have
opened dozens a day.
DC * * *
“Fodgie”: Mr. Hollway may be right
in doubting the capacity of civil-servant
or social-worker to resolve misfits in
marriage (B. 30/3/’49), but “F.S.’s” con-
tention that a civil-servant could hardly
succeed where the genius, Shelley, failed,
is absurd. Shelley failed because he was
a genius, with a dreamer’s inability to
face the reality of living.
* * * *
“Father of Six”: I agree with “J.
O’Keefe” (B. 2/3/’49) regarding the ten-
dency for men making toward the twilight
to become afflicted with “old-fogeyism” ;
to imagine that the lads of their youth
were all real tough-guys and the rising
generation a mob of sissies. It may be
no longer considered heroic to pelt stones
at every assailable Chinaman; for the
push to lie in wait for some unlucky
Chink vegetable-hawker, to upset his
hand-cart, spilling his wares. Nor
is it fashionable to “wag” from
school, a misdemeanor which in
bygone days frequently brought a
dozen cuts —not always heroically
borne. But here’s the real tegt —
Churchill’s “few” who, vastly out-
numbered, took the sky and saved
Britain were almost without excep-
tion of a supposedly sissy genera-
tion, reared on a diet of pictures,
ice-cream and radio during the
“long week-end” ; but neither Nel-
son’s men of Trafalgar nor Welling-
ton’s “scum of the earth” outdid
in cold courage that “sissy” genera-
tion. And our present kids will, if need
arise, do just as well.
* * * *
“R. Gerlind”: “Reppiks” (B. 16/3/’49)
erred slightly over Dick Jagoe, once
affectionately known as the “sandhill
savage” of Semaphore (S.A.). Jagoe was
shipping reporter for Adelaide “Register”
for many years from 1858, and not the
signalman, though he lived in the house
Trejagoe, adjoining the signal station. I
remember him well; he was a big, jovial
man, and his long white beard was stained
with tobacco-smoke from the large meer-
schaum pipe he continually smoked. W.
Uden was signalman in those days. Tide-
and shipping-signals were hoisted at the
station, but for vessels passing Cape
Borda inward or in sight in the Gulf the
owner’s house-flag was flown from the
staff. The Semaphore Hotel, built by
George Coppin in 1849, stood on this
site until burnt down in 1859 ; the Gov-
ernment then erected a residence there for
the harbormaster. Captain Bloomfield
Douelas. 1858-70, Later it was used by
the Collector of Customs. In the ’nineties
I often went out in launches to board
ships at the anchorage with R. Jagoe,
Customs officials and my father, who was
shipping detective for over 30 years.
* * * *
“Melbn”: Street-names? Toorak
(Melbourne) has one which commemo-
rates a once-celebrated barmaid. Her
name was Evalina, and she pulled pints
for coach-drivers and wood-carters en
route to the Dandenongs at the old Bush
Inn on the corner of Williams- and
Malvern-roads. A wooden building to
start with, its proprietor was one Col-
clough. It was later replaced by a two-
story brick edifice which was sold the
other day for £85,000.
% * * *
“Hamfat”: What to do with the hands
(B. 6/4/’49) has always been a human
problem; it reaches its worst on the
stage. Conscientious “teachers of the
dramatic art” spend long hours trying to
train pupils out of the awkward hands-
consciousness, but as none of them have
completely overcome the weakness them-
selves, success is only moderate. People
like the French, who use their hands to
talk with, have something. My first
awakening to the universality of a hands-
consciousness painful to myself came
from a discussion about a couple of fine
actors, brothers, whose performances
somehow left a sense of irritation at
times. The reason was indefinable until
old Bill Renno, stage mechanist, who was
born in “the business” and steeped in its
traditions, supplied the key. “They’re
artists all right,” said Bill, “but, oh, them
’ands!” It was their inability to over-
come their awkwardness with their paws
that was the source of irritation,
* * * *
“Flea”: “O.W.W.’s” par. on the boy
getting stuck into the beer at a wedding-
breakfast (B. 30/3/’49) reminded me of
a lad of four I saw swigging beer in a
pub near Eltham (Vic.) some 30 years
ago. We were having dinner when the
little chap complained that he was thirsty.
His grandmother, the licensee, picked up
a glass, poured a beer and let the kid
hoe in. I showed my astonishment.
“You know my five sons?” Granny
asked. “Well, have you ever seen one
of them drunk?” I admitted I hadn’t.
“Well,” she said, “every bne of them
drank beer before he could walk. The
thing is that they have brains enough to
know when to stop.” I didn’t like the
way she looked at me over her glasses,
so I shut up and tore into the lamb and
green peas.
* * * *
“Eureka”: There died on the N.S.W,
South Coast recently an old lady over
70 years of age who had never in her
life been more than 10 miles away from
the place where she was born. It is an
astonishing fact that despite modern
transport there are many country people
who have never been to a city, numerous
inland folk who have never seen the sea,
and lots of coast-dwellers who have never
seen a real plain. A young man living in
the Bega (N.S.W.) district saw his first
train when he got on it at Nimmitabel
to go to Sydney to enlist for World War
11. Fie was 24. I knew one man who
was 40 years of age before he got his
first glimpse of the ocean, though he had
never lived more than 30 miles from it.
A SIDELINE FOR AIR-HOSTESSES.
“Air-hostesses were particularly effective in over-
coming boredom among travellers. They were in-
structed to engage a bored passenger in conversation.”
Evidence at a Qantas inquiry.
It’s clear, it’s mighty clear, that those who travel
In these machines that cleave the folds of air
Have singularly little cause to cavil
About the scarcity of comforts there.
With ministering angels to unravel
Tangles that come from apathy and care
And rescue chaps from looking bored and tired,
What further luxury could be desired?
Maybe it’s some disgruntled politician
Whose brow with furrowed frowns is overlaid,
Or someone with a gloomy disposition
Brooding upon the ups-and-downs of trade.
The sprightly hostess, noting his condition,
Full of concern will hasten to his aid,
And with the witching wiles that women use
Effectually dissipate his blues.
She’ll lure him with her softly sensuous prating
To touch on topics he can talk of best
Until she has him cheerfully relating
Something about a novel or a Test,
Or possibly a movie, indicating
A lift of ennui from his troubled breast.
Stirred by her interest he’ll cease to be
Enwrapped in chilling taciturnity.
Here’s luck, you girls, whose job’s not only
aiding
With physical amenities, I guess,
The tastes and fancies of your human lading
As ’cross the skies they regularly press.
You’ve also to assist them in evading
The curse of loneliness and listlessness.
No enterprising airline can afford
To have its clients even looking bored.
N.S.W.
Iford.


THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Incorporated in Victoria.
Est. 1885
Wi
Simplifies Business and Estate Administration
śf
The future welfare of a business bequeathed as part
of an Estate may well depend on sound direction by
the Executors and Trustees. When expert know-
ledge is required the Union Trustee Company may
be joined as Co-executor or Trustee.
A wide range of Services covering every require-
ment in Estate administration is permanently avail-
able—at moderate cost.
Phone, write or call for your complimentary copy
of the informative booklet, “Important Facts Con-
cerning Wills, Executors, Trustees.”
333 Collins St., Melbourne—2 O’Connell St., Sydney— 398-402 Queen St., Brisbane
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
The only Trustee company having ofhces each with its own Board of Directors and management in three States Victoria, New^Soudi^yalesjaM
the WILDAL COUMN
Australian Iron and Steel, Ltd.
r ->—Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
Nov., Profit. 5.8 p.c. Ord. serves. serves.
1940.. 382,417 58,125 Nil 324,292 909,691
7* p.c.
1941.. 35,434 75,000 Nil 870,125
1942.. 87,391 75,000 Nil 12,391 882,516
1943.. 350,345 75,000 Nil 275,345 1,157,861
1944.. 187,368 75,000 Nil 112,368 1,270,229
Ord. div. appropriation added re-
serves, £91,675 .. .. •• 1,361,904
1945.. 159,695 75,000 Nil 84,695 1,446,599
5 p.c.
1946.. 346,872 75,000 235,000 36,872 1,483,471
1947.. 418,570 75,000 Nil 343,570 1,827,04 j.
1948.. 278,206 75,000 Nil 203,026 2,030,067
Steel is the most important fabricated
material of modern industry. Every
sector of the economy is dependent upon
it some extent, largest users being the
building and construction, engineering
and shipbuilding trades and the railways.
Output of steel per head of population is,
therefore, a rough yardstick for measur-
ing the development of a country’s
economy and its power to equip itself in
defence. Australia’s per-capita output of
steel ingots for 1947-48 was slightly less
than in 1938-39, despite a very substantial
increase in plant capacity meanwhile.
The trouble is that steel cannot be
made without coal, now the chief bottle-
neck in production—for every ton of
steel produced about tons of coal are
consumed. Spasmodic deliveries of an
inadequate supply of coal reduced output
of A.I. and S.’s big plant at Port Kembla
—it is one of the most modern in the
world —to around two-thirds capacity last
term. No. 1 blast-furnace, out of com-
mission since July, 1946, has not yet been
able to resume production. Shortages of
labor and materials have also delayed the
co.’s big programme of expansion and
development and retarded efficiency in the
industry. Since the whole country is
urgently in need of steel and steel pro-
ducts, the overall effects upon national
output, income and costs are obvious.
Costs in the heavily-capitalised steel in-
dustry, perhaps more than in any other,
are affected by the level of output. They
were further bumped up last term by
recurrent wage-lifts, the 40-hour week and
a strike at all South Coast collieries,
which brought an almost complete stop-
page at the steelworks for about six weeks.
The overall effect upon the co.’s earn-
ings was a sharp drop of £140,364 in the
year’s profit, after allowing £857,625
(down £16,948) for depreciation. The
£278,206 of profit claimed was a mere
3.6 p.c. on shareholders’ funds (capital and
reserves combined), of'enough to pay the
pref. div. and show 4.3 p.c. as against
7.3 p.c. for the previous term, on the
£4,700,007 of ord. capital, all of which
is held by 8.H.P., and has been since 1935.
But with big developments afoot B.H.P.
has been content to forgo divs. It has
received only one div. (5 p.c.) in the 13
years since it took control. During this
pieriod the story has been one of con-
tinuous development and of an assault
upon costs by modernisation of equip-
ment. Exactly when B.H.P. will get an
adequate return on its investment in this
biggest one of its subsidiaries will depend
largely upon the availability of coal and
labor. All the other factors —including a
full order-book, efficient plant and tech-
nical and other skill —essential to satis-
factory earning power are present.
Coal is drawn from the co.’s own five
collieries on the N. S. Wales South Coast,
and their electrification and mechanisa-
tion are proceeding at an estimated cost
of about £4,000,000. Limestone is ob-
tained from Marulan' (N.S.W.), and iron-
ore, which to date has come from Iron
Monarch (S. Aus.), will presently be sup-
plied from the co.’s own high-grade,
easily-worked deposits on Cockatoo
Island, Yampi Sound (W.A.), where over
a million pounds has been spent on de-
velopment and equipment.
The Kembla plant is Capable of turning
out an extra 5000 tons of ingots a week,
and extensions in hand will lift the figure
by a further 10,000 tons a week, making a
total of 780,000 tons a year more than the
present rate of production. These exten-
sions, including 48 new by-product coke
ovens and additions to the merchant-bar,
rod and strip mills, are expected to be
ready for operation this year, but when
they will actually get into production will
governed by the coal and labor problems.
A start has been made on the new
million-ton-a-year hot- and cold-strip mill
and tinplate plant, which are being erected
by the co. in association with B.H.P.
alongside the steelworks at Kembla. The
work, which will take a few years to com-
plete, will call for a capital outlay of
“very considerable magnitude.” To help
provide the feed for these new mills,
•A.I. and S. is to install a third blast-
furnace and another 24 by-product coke-
ovens. '
Last year the co. spent £1,821,294 more
than was written off on the omnibus item,
fixed assets :
1935. 1947. 1948.
Paid capital .. £3,700,007 £5,700,007 £5,700,007
Sundry creditors.. 649,937 3,273,231 4,038,700
Fixed assets . . 3,794,371 7,321,163 9,142,457
Shares in subsidiary 391,809 386,498 386,498
Stocks . . . . 269,009 1,466,433 1,743,306
Book debts . . 317,722 765,837 512,980
Cash, Gov’ment bonds 10,692 897,848 21,033
Stocks increased by £276,873 and
debtors’ balances were reduced by
£252,857. To meet the outlay £361,371
was added to the overdraft (£562,325) and
£344,622 to sundry creditors (£3,475,332),
which include B.H.P.
The fall in A.I. and S.’s profit, to-
gether with other factors, brought an
easing in the price of B.H.P.’s pound
shares, which recently fetched 535. 6d. as
against 595. 3d. early in 1949. The im-
mediate return at 535. 6d. is 3.1 p.c. on
an 8.3 p.c. div., the rate paid by B.H.P.
last term. Meanwhile, those on B.H.P.’s
register await announcement of a new
share issue to provide some of the millions
that will be ultimately required to finance
combined commitments of the two cos.
Direct public interest in A.I. and S. is
confined to a million p.c. prefs. At
365. 6d. they yield 4.1 p.c..; they are
covered by £7 14s. 7d. in net tangibles.
Fairymead Sugar Co. (Q.)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1941.. 34,039 7 p.c. = 34,475 235,491
Added replacement reserve, £14,744 .. 250,235
1942.. 8,909 Nil 8,909 259,144
Added replacement reserve, £16,211 .. 275,355
1943.. 7,376 3i p.c. = 16,006 266,725
Added replacement reserve, £13,919 .. 280,644
1944.. 34,525 5 p.c. = 24,625 9,900 290,544
Added replacement reserve, £13,901 .. 304,445
1945.. 43,749 7 p.c. = 84,475 9,274 313,719
Added replacement reserve, £5809 .. 319,528
1946.. 2,192 5 p.c. = 24,625 297,095
Added replacement reserve, £4072.. 301,167
Written off war damage; £lO,OOO .. 391,167
1947.. 54,705 8 p.c. = 39,400 15,305 306,472
Reserves disappear, £913 .. .. 305,559
Share premiums, £2268 .'. .. 307,827
Added replacement reserve, £29,219.. 337,044
1948.. 78,824 12 p.C. = 59,562 19,262 356,306
Written off war damage, £lO,OOO .. 346,306
* Includes replacement reserve, £320,248 at
31/12/’4B.
The leap of £24,119 in latest profit of
this Bundaberg grower and miller was
the result of a record crushing and out-
put of raws, following ideal seasonal
conditions. Floods, droughts, frosts, etc.,
aggravated by rising costs and shortages
of manpower and materials, were
responsible for the ups and downs in
earnings since 1941. The allocation of
920 migrants to the sugar industry re-
sulted in all last year’s bigger crop being
harvested and a better run of the mills.
The co. doesn’t broadcast its crushing
and production figures', but the following
table shows what has happened in the
industry as a whole since the previous
peak production in 1939:
Australian Australian Exportable
Production. Consumption. Surplus.
Tons. Tons. Tons.
1939 . . 928,147 383,453 544,694
1943 . . 523,794 434,128 89,666
1946 ■.. 552,158 463,732 88,426
1947 .. 605,054 498,551 106,503
.. 944,000 f * *
f Estimate. * Not yet available.
Exports for 1948 are expected to approxi-
mate Australia’s quota of 412,000 tons
under the International Sugar Agreement
of 1937,
Still, the bigger export is not expected
to add more than about 10s. a ton to the
1948 pool price for Australian raws, lift-
ing it to around £25 a ton. Higher
handling charges will reduce the net price
for both exports and home consumption
—1947 figures were £29 12s. 6d. and £24
respectively. The raw sugar industry will
get only about 31s. of the £4 13s. 4d. a
ton by which the retail selling price of
fines in Australia was increased at end
1947. Wage increases and further pro-
vision of emergency storage space for
raws —267,416 tons remained in N.Q.
ports at end 1948, as against 212,150 tons
a year earlier —bumped up exes. This
accumulation of sugar is the result of
strikes, go-slow on the waterfront and
leisurely turn-round of ships.
“A small profit was made in the Island
department” is the board’s brief com-
ment on operations of the subsidiary
Malayta Co., which owns copra planta-
tions in the Solomon Islands, where
shipping, native labor and other prob-
lems have delayed rehabilitation. Share-
holders’ prospects partly depend upon the
extent to which this section of the busi-
ness finally contributes to the pool.
After allowing for taxation and depreci-
ation (£29,244, up £13,667), and excluding
reserve adjustments interlined in the
table, the profit was £78,824, second-best
in the co.’s history. It was 15.9 p.c. on
capital as against 11.1, 0.4, 8.8, 7.1, 0.5,
1.8, 6.9 and 10 p.c. back to 1940. The
div. was lifted from 8 p.c. to 12 p.c.,
making the average over the last eight
years 5.9 p.c., compared with an average
of 9.5 p.c. for the seven years before that.
With another good season in prospect
and the British bulk purchase price for
raws (£S27 ss. a ton) unchanged, the
chances for another good showing at
next balance appear bright enough.
Long-term prospects for the industry are
obscure. Currency problems have estab-
lished two independent world markets
for sugar. Growers in the dollar area
afe faced with a burdensome surplus.
But what effect, if any, a drop in the
dollar price would have on the sterling
price of sugar at the moment remains
to be seen. The imperial preference on
sugar has been extended and Britain has
agreed to take Australia’s exportable
surplus until August, 1952, price being
subject to annual adjustment. Mean-
while, any substantial appreciation of the
Australian pound in terms of sterling
would affect the industry.
The co.’s financial position improved:
1938. 1946. 1947. 1948.
Paid capital.. £492,500 £492,500 £492,500 £494,500
Liabilities* .. 84,484 186,995 323,642 389,605
Estates . . 830,681 338,786 323,288 327,875
Factories, etc.f 360,124 521,680 519,502 557,678
Stocks, etc... 45,648 56,654 72,862 89,343
Book debts .. 85,066 56,528 208,591 260,834
Cash, etc. .. 6,468 5,487 6,576 7,752
Island-rehabili-
tation . . 22,082 41,196 26,821
* Including provision for taxation,
t Includes livestock.
The year’s growth in liabilities (up
£65,963), stocks (up £16,481) and book
debts (up £52,243) are inter-related. The
excess of liabilities over more or less
liquids (£31,676) was reduced by £3937.
At 40s. (395. 6d. a year ago), the
pound shares return 6 p.c. so long as the
12 p.c. distribution continues. Cover is
345. in net tangibles.
McDonnell and East, Ltd. (Brisbane)
r Dividends N
Pref, To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. 8 p.c. Ord.* serves, serves.
£> £, £ £ £
1942.. 11,275 720 5* p.c.=10,232 323 23,986
1943.- 17,056 720 5* „ ~10,231 6,105 30,091
1944.. 25,914 720 6 „ ~11,161 14,033 44,124
1945.. 26,748 720 6 „ ~11,161 14,867 58,991
1946.. 31,332 720 7 „ „13,02 T 17,591 76,582
1947.. 37,043 720 7 „ ~13,022 23,301 99,883
From policies a/c, £B2OO .. .. 103,083
1948.. 46,817 720 S p.c. =14,882 31,215 134,298
Reserves disappear, £7379 .. .. 126,919
1949.. 82,696 720 8 p.c. =14,882 17,094 144,013
* Includes Special payment to directors, £ll2O last
term.
For the first time in the last seven years
earnings of this Brisbane drapery store,
which is in George-street, just off the
city’s main shopping centre, have turned
in the wrong direction. But they still re-
main at a very satisfactory level —more
than twice the amount needed for an all-
round 8 p.c. div. The board, in its report,
makes no comment on the slip in the
figures, which was more pronounced than
the first column in the table suggests.
Retail turnovers generally continued to
expand, as the following table shows —it
gives the percentage change in aggregate
turnover, compared with the correspond-
ing period of the previous year, for a
dozen Brisbane department stores: —
Average Three Months Ended
r A — n _
Sept. Dec. Mar. June. Year.
1944- .. + 7.6 +lO.O + 1.0 0.3 + 4.5
1945- .. +16.5 +27.7 +22.4 +24.8 +23.3
1946- .. +14.6 + 9.3 + 9.9 +15.8 +12.4
1947- .. +26.0 +17.9 +12.3 +11.4 +16.6
1948- .. +12.7
Appearances are that narrower gross
margins rather than turnover were respon-
sible for the slip of £7633 in this co.’s
gross earnings (£175,401). At the same
time trading exes. (£121,705) shot up by
£17,488, due mainly to wage-lifts and in-
troduction of the 40-hour week. So,
despite a drop of £BOOO in the allowance
for taxation (£21,000), the net result was
£14,121 short of the 1948 figure, which
was written after sending £lOOO to
doubtful-debts reserve and £2OOO to the
staff fund —nothing was set aside under
these headings last term.
The £32,696 of profit covered the small
pref. div. and 18.6 p.c. on the £172,027 of
ord. capital, compared with 26.8, 21.1,
17.8, 15.1, 14.6, 9.4 and 6.1 p.c. back to
1942. That leaves out of the reckoning
an unexplained reduction of £7379 in the
contingencies reserve, which might have
some connection with the compulsory re-
duction of 1\ p.c. in margins on soft-
goods at the beginning of 1949. The
board, which has made the most of its
opportunities of recent years, kept the
div. at 8 p.c., making the average 6.4 p.c.
over the last decade. For the half-dozen
years before that the average was 4.3 p.c.
Since 1939 £119,056 has been paid in
divs. and £127,774 ploughed back into the
business, most of it in the last half-dozen
years, thus lifting reserves to £144,013 at
the close of last accounts.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1941. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital. . £181,027 £181,027 £181,027 £181,027
Mortgages . . 32,187 3,903 3,153 2,403
Overdraft . . 50,512 60,000 60,000 74,282
Sundry creditors 21,398 19,742 14,676 27,878
Freehold, plant
etc. . . 126,283 102,396 100,480 102,572
Stocks .. 130,662 217,091 259,996 321,561
Book debts . . 59,304 37,660 46,661 50,607
Cash, etc. . . 14,945 113,873 46,588 33,342
Stocks (up £61,565) catch the eye. They
appear at cost or market price whichever
is the lower ; much will also depend upon
their type and quality. The outside debt
was increased by £27,723 and cash, etc.,
was drawn upon for £13,246. Improve-
ment in the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£301,038) was £25,622.
There is still plenty of money about,
but goods promise to become more diffi-
cult to move than of recent years, and
costs are still rising. The market looks at
the wide margin between earnings and dis-
tributions and prices the pound ords. at
31s. (335. a year ago), giving a satisfactory
return of 5.1 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
Net tangible cover is 365. 9d. The well-
protected prefs. seldom come into the
market.
R. H. Gordon and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1942.. 19,045 10 p.c. = 19,400 200,389
To staff fund, £5OO .. .. 199,889
From tax reserve, £3247.. .. 203,136
1943.. 16,410 13J p.c. = 19,400 7 iqqfiifi
To staff fund, £5OO .. f Aaa,Dl
From tax reserve, £1297 .. .. 200,943
1944.. 18,165 13* p.c. = 19,400 7 _ iqq9oB
To staff fund, £5OO .. | 1 ’
From tax reserve, £340 .. .. 199,548
1945.. 21,335 15 p.c. = 21,825 7 _ logons
To staff fund, £750 . . )
1946.. 33,114 18* p.c. = 26,675 f - 4 oq 003747
To staff fund. £lOOO .. ( o,i6 ° ’
1947.. 33,430 18* p.c. = 26,675 1 5755 209,502
To staff fund, £lOOO ..f 0,100 ’
1948.. 37,300 20 p.c. = 29,100 1 6,700 216,202
To staff fund, £l5OO .. J 6,700 216,202
In addition to pickings and discounts
from its cash-order section —the line on
which the business grew up —the co.
gathers profits from a large furniture and


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —Advt.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
£-
Jacksons
OSUUJViv
mm
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
BRAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS. BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : ! PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
*JACKSUL.” BRISBANE
RSI
i titan,
H FINE HOTEL
A hotel, certainly one of Sydney a
leading hotels, but differentto
every other in many things. The
Wentworth, for instance, has ever
been noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too,
while away from the noise and
hustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WENTWORTH
Lit
7
ney-
Thone BW 1561 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today's values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
62 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
SMOKERS
PIPE TOBACCOS THAT ARE
BLENDED TO GIVE
SATISFACTION TO ALL.
HOUSE OF MURPHY. A blend oI
the highest grade of leaf to give a
cool smoke of satisfaction that men
prefer. 22/- per lb. Posted.
A.A.A. HIUIiTOP. A blend of
Australian, American and African.
20/- per lb. Posted.
WINSTON BEADY RUBBED
CIGARETTE TOBACCO. Greatly
improved by better blending of
mature leaf. 24/- per lb. Posted.
Special Quotes to Retailers jor lots 20lb.
weight or over •
Write to: Cash. Order Dept.,
Hillman Trading Co. (
Commercial Road, Brisbane.
Postage paid on Cash with order.
Postage extra on C.O.D. Orders.
OPPORTUNITY
FOR HOLDERS OF
SYDNEY WATED BOARD
STOCK AND DEBENTURES
MATURING ON
Ist MAY, 1949, TO
CONVERT
THEIR HOLDINGS TO
STOCK AND DEBENTURES
IN A NEW LOAN
CASH
SUBSCRIPTIONS
are also invited for the
NEW
LOAN No. 63
NOW
OPEN
and closing on or before 7th May, 1949
INTEREST
* PER CENT PER ANNUM
Issued at Par. Currency 14/17 Years.
This gilt-edged security is guaranteed by the Government of
New South Wales, secured by the Board’s revenue, and
pays better than bank interest. Have interest credited to
your bank account. Cash subscriptions and interest are
free of exchange in terms of the Prospectus.
AN AUTHORISED TRUSTEE INVESTMENT IN
NEW SOUTH WALES, QUEENSLAND AND
TASMANIA
The New Loan gives you a welcome opportunity to invest
your capital at 3 \°lo. Should you require the principal
before the Loan matures, Sydney Water Board stock is
readily negotiable.
APPLY EARLY TO AVOID DISAPPOINTMENT
Prospectus and application forms are available at all
branches of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia, the
Sydney Water Board, or from members of recognised
Australian Stock Exchanges.
£3-5-0
W 4-49
furnishing-drapery trade, much
of it on a time-payment basis.
And the results speak volumes
for the management. From the
beginning (in 1903) to end 1930
£222,400 of bonus scrip was
handed out, and divs. averaged
18.7 p.c. for the last 18 years of
the period. Then, slump having
reduced capital requirements,
£174,833 (it was more than
originally put up in cash) was
returned to shareholders.
Another one-for-four gift issue
was made in 1935, and divs.
averaged 12.6 p.c. for the decade
to end 1940, followed by an
average of 15,4 p.c. to the close
of last accounts. Meanwhile (in
1943) another £48,500 was re-
turned to shareholders, reducing
paid capital to the present
£145,500 in 15s. shares.
War out of the way, turnover
bounded along and earnings
responded, despite hampering
Government restrictions,
especially in connection with
cash-orders, gross margins and
time-payment transactions. Last
term turnover again increased
“substantially,” especially in the
furniture section. So, despite a
sharp rise in costs and further
reduction in gross margins, the
board was able to write net profit
£3870 stronger at £37,300, or
25.6 p.c. on capital as against
23, 22.8, 14.6, 12.4 and 11 p.c.
back to 1943, On shareholders’
funds (capital and reserves com-
bined) the year’s profit was 10.3
p.c. Since the policy is to dis-
tribute profits as they are earned,
the div. was lifted from 18£ p.c.
to 20 p.c. A loss of £4544 on
disposal of Gordon House was
met by transfer of a similar
amount from excess tax provi-
sion owing to diminishing
terms of the lease and drastic
official requirements reinstate-
ment of this property was not
considered worthwhile.
There is still a large potential
demand ahead of the furniture
and furnishing-drapery trades,
but what the effective demand
will amount to depends largely
upon what happens in connec-
tion with costs and incomes. In
the long-run costs usually win
the race to the detriment of de-
mand and a lot of other things.
Price fluctuation in imported
furnishing fabrics, carpets, etc.,
is also a factor that might have
to be reckoned with before long.
The market sums up the whole
position by pricing the f.-p. 15s.
shares at 565. as against 575. a
year ago. The return at 565. is
5.3 p.c. on a 20 p.c. div. basis,
or 4 p.c. on, say, an average 15
p.c. distribution. The cover is
375. 3d. in net tangibles.
Co. trades well within its re-
sources :
1939. 1947. 1948.
£ £ £
Jr aid capital .. 194,009 145,500 145,500
Sundry cred* 63,105 75,970 63,957
Overdraft .. 10,613 ■ —•• —•
Property and
plant, etc, .. 114,247 116,480 94,494
Stock.. .. 36,074 51,437 67,388
Hire agreements 119,872 85,491 123,769
Book debts .. 74,861 43,996 44,569
Shares, deben-
tures, etc. . . 50,935 45,710 45,452
Mortgages .. 7,986 2,218 2,188
Government se-
curities .. 76,817 90,697 74,591
Cash, etc. .. 13,882 20,102 2,085
* Including taxation.
The year’s drop of £21,986 in
property, etc., was due to the
sale of Gordon House; the
growth of £15,951 in stocks and
of £38,278 in hire agreements
reflects bigger trading at higher
prices. The more-or-less liquid
surplus was £33,003 stronger at
£296,084.
With No. 2 mill going again
—it was shut down for all but
seven of the 52 weeks to end
June, 1948 Mt. Morgan’s
treatment and recovery figures
and earnings have stepped up.
For 24 weeks to Dec. 11, 1948,
the two mills treated 357,780
tons ore, averaging 2.34dwt.
gold and 0.52 p.c. copper, for a
profit of £43,384, after allowing
£25,960 for depreciation. For
year to June 30, 1948, the profit
was £46,370 (down £54,665),
won from treatment of 572,320
tons ore, averaging 2.29dwt. gold
and 0.56 p.c. copper. At mid-
-1948 ore reserves stood at
5,518,145 tons, averaging
4.o6dwt. gold and 1.90 p.c. cop-
per. Earnings aren’t likely to get
properly into their stride until
the andesite dyke on No. 6
bench has been passed, a year or
so hence, when higher-grade
copper ore should be met with.
Hence the importance of the
price of copper and level of
costs —the latter are still rising.
In 1948 the Australian price of
electrolytic rose from £l3O to
£l4O a ton in March to £l6O in
July and to £lBO last month. A
week or so ago the New York
price eased from 23? cents to
21? cents a pound, equal to ap-
proximately £ll9 sterling, or
£149 Australian. Last week-end
British Ministry of Supply was
still paying £SI4O (=£Al75) a
ton as against £SI3S last Octo-
ber. Morgan’s issued capital is
£650,000 in 300,000 £1 7 p.c.
prefs. redeemable June, 1959,
and 2,800,000 ords. —final 3s. 6d.
on 452,000 new 2s. 6d. ords.
issued at a premium of 4s. 6d.
each in July, 1948, is payable
June 15 next. In 1948 the ords.
fluctuated between 14s. and
Bs. sd. in the market. Last week-
end buyers offered 9s. 6d. and
sellers asked 9s. lid.
* * * Hi
Lake View and Star (W.A.),
Australia’s biggest gold-pro-
ducer, has just declared an in-
terim 12£ p.c., less U.K. income
tax of 9s. in the £, for the year
to June 30, 1949. For each of
the two previous years 41 \ p.c.,
less tax, was paid—interim \2{
p.c. and final 35 p.c. Ore re-
serves at end June, 1948, were
put at 3,995,800 tons, averaging
4.B7dwt, and a new ore-body,
assaying well above mine aver-
age, has been located around the
600 ft. level in the Lake View,
Associated and s.-w. portion of
Chaffers leases. After sales at
235. 6d. buyers recently offered
245. 3d. for the f.-p. 4s. shares
on the Australian market.
* * * *
Damage to the Edwards shaft
at Great Boulder (W.A.), follow-
ing a 3200 ft. fall of an empty
skip, proved less than antici-
pated, and the winding-engine
can be repaired locally. Subject
to delivery of materials, it is ex-
pected to have the headframe
repaired and the engine and
shaft in commission again within
three months at an estimated
cost of £lO,OOO. Meanwhile a
throughput of 20,000 tons a
month is aimed at by reorganis-
ing on a three-shift basis and
haulage through the Hamilton
shaft. Most promising develop-
ment in the mine is at 3100 ft. in
the Edwards, where over 150 ft.
of B.sdwt. ore has been exposed
over a width of 58in. In 1947
co. treated 396,626 tons of
s.o9dwt. ore for a profit of
£34,956, and paid a 25 p.c. div.,
less English income tax of 9s. in
£, or 13f p.c. net. Headquarters
were recently transferred to
Melbourne, and 3|d. (Aust.) per
2s. stock unit was paid April 6.
After sales at Bs. 6d. in January,
buyers recently offered 7s. 6d.
for the scrip.
* * * *
Moolyella Tin Development,
NX., a Melbourne float, is to
prospect an alluvial tin de-
posit about 10 miles east of
Marble Bar on the Pilbara field
(W.A.). Nominal capital is
£25,000 in ss. shares, of which
50,000 are offered, and the -ven-
dor, C. B. Murphy, takes 12,500
paids, plus £2OOO cash, for
rights over 2558 acres and some
plant, etc. The other 37,500
shares are in reserve. Up to
1929 5267 tons t.o. assaying 72
р. tin had been recovered from
the area. Since then no records
of production have been kept.
Pitting to a maximum depth of
30ft. has disclosed some 62,000
с. expected to average 61b.
t. 0., and 13,000 c.y. of 41b. dirt,
with prospects of a lot more pay-
able stuff near by. After in-
spection of the property, A.
Cooledge thinks there are good
chances of locating enough pay-
dirt to warrant installation of a
dredge. Everything will depend
on thoroughness of testing and
extent and value of ground dis-
closed. Another problem will be
an adequate supply of water.
The prospectus estimate of costs
at lOd. per c.y. seems optimistic.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Hanko”: There were the usual small
noises of a Sunday afternoon. Dolly was
at the piano, soft-pedal down, stumbling
through the scales; from far-off came a
twanging that was old Nugget rubbing
liis greasy heels against the fence-wires;
there was a-subdued chattering among the
fowls ; and a pair of mudlarks called and
answered each other in the plantation.
Then came a thump that shook the
house. Dolly screamed ; the Keel Row
snapped off; and, at varying rates of
speed, we converged on the drawing-room-
It was a photo, of grandfather in its
heavy ornate frame that had snapped its
moorings. Old William lay twinkling at the
ceiling and smiling through his whiskers.
I picked up a glittering, knobby whorl
from the broken frame, and was shocked
to discover it was merely gilded plaster.
Always I’d thought that that frame was
of solid gold, I mooched out and sought
solace in the clump of gorse that
flourished behind the stables ; a favored
spot when my world turned upside-down.
Strange how trivialities upset kiddies,
sometimes for as long as 10 minutes or
so.
♦ * * *
“Wonk”: There’s only one thing to do
nowadays if a bloke wants something
done, so when my old alarm put on a
stop-work strike I took it to bits and
hunted for a break somewhere. Couldn’t
see anything, but one bit did look a bit
bent, so I wrote to a city firm for a new*
one. Explained on four pages what the
part looked like; then, just to prove it
in case they argued the point, I posted
the bit, too. Six months later I got a
new one back, but by then I’d forgotten
where it went. What I needed was a
squiz at another clock, so I asked Ted
if he had one I could borrow. “Whaffor?”
he says, and I explain about taking it to
bits to copy off. “No ; no, I ain’t,” he
says. “Sorry, but I ain’t got one on the
place.” I asked a lot more after that,
and honest, you’d be surprised at the
number of blokes in this district that tell
the time by the sun. Well, in the end,
I sends down for a new clock. Yair, and
it just shows you the rotten things they
sell nowadays, and the rotten spares they
make. And after all me trouble. Took
me about three nights before I’d got the
thing to bits and, copyin’ off it, put ’em
both together the same. Yair, an’ now,
hang me if either of ’em’ll go.”
* * * *
“Isa Lei”; Volcanic Falcon Island
(Tonga) is on another of its periodic
excursions into the ocean depths. It is
now under nine fathoms, four more than
the last sounding three years ago. Since
it was first recorded in 1856 this island
has been the joy of seismologists and the
despair of mariners. It was first only a
breaking reef, but in 1877 it had appeared
as a definite island. Three years later it
had receded beneath the ocean, leaving
only a reef and much superstition among
the islanders. In 1885 the If miles-long
isle made another ascent, shooting up to
150 feet. From then till 1913 it kept
bobbing up and down, then went into
what seemed to be permanent retirement.
But in 1927, amid much smoke and
rumblings, it thrust itself up 500 feet
above the water. This time an official
party managed to land, planted the
Tongan flag, and discovered that Falcon
held a steaming lake in its crater.
* * ♦ ♦
“Solitude”: We’d boxed our mobs at
the foot, and all day had travelled further
into the hills. The country grew wild and
steep, and a bit after sundown we began
casting around for a suitable camp. “We
c’d leave ’em on this crick,” remarked
Seventyfiver, “but the nuisances’ll keep
makin’ back.” “What about that side
gully? Looks as though it might open
out further back,” I suggested. The
old bloke agreed, so, leaving the
dogs in charge, we turned up
the gully to investigate. For a while
it was narrow, with steep rocky walls that
denied any beast a foothold. We clattered
over rocks and shale, picked our way
through a patch of scrub, and paused in-
voluntarily as the gully suddenly opened
into a surprising pocket. For about half
a mile the sheltered flat extended to the
bush-draped walls in an almost unbroken
carpet of wild daisies. The effect was
breathtaking. For the most part the
flowers were snow-white, but a sprinkling
of the blue variety in irregular splashes
gave it pattern. For a long minute we
stared. “Not bad, eh?” I managed
presently. “No —o.” Seventyfiver’s eyes
lifted to the dark background, and re-
turned again to the daisies. “Could be
better though, Sol,” he murmured.
“Wants a few more o’ them blue ones.”
“More blue?” “No,” I disagreed, bliss-
fully eyeing the display of color. “No.
You couldn’t get it any better.” “But
you take them white patches,” he pointed
out. “They’re tall an’ thin’ an’ the green
underneath’s sort o’ light. But them
blues . . . p’raps it’s because they ain’t so
much out or somethin’, but them leaves
is darker, see? An’ about three times’s
thick. Gripes, with the blue they’ll get a
decent mouthful every bite.”
* * * *
“Joather Dhu”: There is certainly
nothing so soul-searing or so effective a
reducer of high spleen-pressure as a no-
audience fight between two male humans
(B. 30/3/’49). The young engineer-in-
charge of the afternoon shift at the C.S.R.
Broadwater Mill, Richmond River
“See, it doesn't hurt a bit!”
(N.S.W.), slipped away for a little con-
templation to a quiet spot he knew, con-
tained by the building’s high end and ex-'
tension walls and the large coal-heap.
The old wooden s.s. Kiltobranks, loaded
to the Plimsoll with Newcastle coal, slid
towards the coal-wharf, and while still
under way two of the crew leapt,
“Sydney-ferry fashion,” on* to the wharf
and made their resolute way into his
quiet corner. Not a word was spoken,
but it was really grand while it lasted ; the
stocky Irishman beat the long Cockney in
nine tougli and continuous minutes, and,
both still silent, shook hands and helped
each other f back on board before the
ship had finished tying up, while the wise
old Scot on the bridge smiled—with his
eyes.
* * * *
“Kiara”: Regarding the use of the
word “cobbler” as referring to the last
sheep in the catching-pen (B. 6/ 4/ ’49).
Let me shed some much-needed light.
When my dad came to N.Q. from
N.S.W. in the early ’eighties his working-
mate who came with him was a blade-
shearer. I often heard him remark how
clean the sheep were and free from
“cobblers,” which were small burrs that
grew on a plant about 9in. high and were
known as “cobbler’s pegs” because they
somewhat resembled the wooden boot-
sprig in common use at that time. The
“cobbler”-wattled sheep was always the
last to be shorn, and came to be known
as “the cobblet,” The burr was prob-
ably one of the reasons why many of
the old foot-shepherds preferred to wear
calico “Alberts” instead of woollen
socks. Greasy dungaree pants were about
the most resistant, hence their popu-
larity among bush toilers about that time.
* * * *
“L.K.W.”: Mum noticed the feedroom
door ajar and investigated. Dad at the
woodheap heard her mutter “At my
fowl-feed I’ll teach the wretched
things!” as she armed herself with a
handy stick. Following sundry loud
noises, one by one the miscreants shot
out unscathed. Finally Mum corfnected,
then dropped her weapon and covered
her eyes with an anguished cry of “What
have I done!” as one future porker re-
moved himself from the scene of his
crime dragging useless hind legs. Twenty
yards from the door he made a sudden
recovery and Dad shouted “It’s all right
—you haven’t killed him!” “I wouldn’t
have cared if I had killed the brute, but
you don’t think I wanted to hurt the
poor thing, do you?” came the indignant
reply.
* * * *
“E”: The traveller, pushed for time,
tentatively suggested that he visit the
farmers round Lingerandie on Sunday
afternoon. He was promptly informed by
Dad that it would be useless, as it was
church day. “But they won’t all be at
church, surely?” asked the traveller.
“Too right they will. Every one of ’em,”
assured Dad. “Y’ see, the church’s bin
the salvation o’ this place. Not like when
we first got the parson out this way.”
“Why? Didn’t they turn up then?” “Aw,
the first coupla Sundys they did,” Dad
explained. “Then, seein’ everybody
gathered t’gether where he c’d keep track
of ’em, one bloke got the idea it’d be a
good time t’ get ’imself a bit o’ cheap
mutton. So he took t’ stayin’ home occa-
sionally. It weren’t long afore one o’,
the churchgoers woke up an’ stayed
home, too, t’ get-his full value back, plus
a couple o’ turkeys interest and a few
buckets o’ fruit just t’ prove dishonesty
don’t pay. Trouble was he blamed the
wrong bloke; somehow, an’ soon every-
body was stoppin’ home t’ get his own
back or protect his property.” “I see,”
grinned the stranger. “And how did you
right things?” “Well, it was the other
towns round about,” Dad answered.
“Reckoned we wasn’t payin’ our share o’
the parson, an’ sez we must be too lousy
t’ go t’ church. Course we wasn’t goin’
t’ stand such blasted libel, so we had this
agreement drawed up all proper, an’ got
every bloke t’ sign up that he’d go t’
church every time or pay a fiver fine.”
* * * *
“G’roper”; There’s one place where
the horse continues to hold its own —and
where you’d least expect it. Twenty years
ago a member of our clan, doing a
wanderjahre around the ports of eastern
Australia —a busman’s holiday, for he
was a lumper—returned with the non-
sensical report: “Fremantle is the best-
mechanised port in the Commonwealth.”
When told to break it down —for who
hasn’t heard of the marvels of the east? —
he retorted: “Dead straight—why, on
some of the wharves in Melbourne they
were even using horses in and out of the
sheds.” Doing a wander recently I
drifted along to where waterside-workers
are almost continually put on strike —
and, sure, there was a couple of tame-
looking nags hitched to trolley-trucks
hauling discharged cargo into the wharf-
sheds.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: With regard to those
canaries surrendering themselves to the
butcher-bird (B. 6/4/’49), that was
common in the days of my youth, when
the keeping of cage-birds was more prac-
tised than at present. Intense fear prob-
ably is hypnotic. In the Kimberleys of
W.A. I watched a big rock-snake, or
python, mesmerise a bush pigeon. The
tableau was in progress when I arrived;
the serpent had the pigeon fastened ,with
its eye while still a good 6ft. away. How-
ever, the pigeon did not act in orthodox
traveller’s-story style ; it merely remained
motionless while the snake glided right
up, threw a coil around it in preparation
for a light lunch. Matters ended there,
since Darby, the abo. with me, reckoned
that rock python was good eating, and
also, although a native of the soil, he
preferred the pigeon unswallowed. Fear
in humans can also produce a certain
hypnotic effect. Who in early life, while
hidden in some corner with a policeman
or other authority searching for the cul-
prits, has not had to restrain the impulse
both in himself and some fellow-fugitive
of running desperately out and surrender-
ing?
“Jimmy”: Butcher-birds have no
hypnotic powers (B. 6/4/’49); but they
have the “shock” attack developed to a
fine art. What happens when you sud-
denly slam a hand on the front of a
canary-cage? The birds panic and flutter
anywhere, even on to the front wire.
“Butch,” with his dive and swish on to
the cage, starts the panic, and the first
bird that comes near him cops it. Spring
is the worst time for outside cages. The
butcher is then well on the warpath, hav-
ing a family to feed. The only fowl I’ve
seen attack the butcher-bird was a pee-
wit ; he came from a height and knocked
the “butch” off his perch and then turned
and give the rest of his family a lacing.
Pee-wee knows that if he lets those young
butchers come of age he’ll return from
his lawful occasions one day to find his
family murdered.
* * * *
“Zake”: One of the exhibits at
Sydney’s big R.A.S. Show gave an idea
of how bees work in a comb. Enclosed
in a glass frame, the workers milled
around. I noticed that occasionally one
bee, a bit larger than his fellows, would
get jammed between the glass and the
slats, upon which a small rescue-party
would go to his assistance, shoving alter-
nately from each side until he was free.
This occurred more than once, and the
well-trained squad—apparently it was the
same one —always appeared on the spot
pronto. So far as the rest of the toilers
were concerned the victim might not have
been there.
* * * *
“Young’un”: Jackson left the home-
stead to inspect some jumbucks, and as he
hadn’t returned by nightfall, search-
parties went out after him. Just after
daylight next morn we found him ; sound
in limb if not of wind, the strain on his
lung-power caused by long spells of
swearing. Finding that No. 2 mill re-
quired minor repairs he had turned it off
and ascended. Prior to descending a
strong sou’-westerly had sprung up and
swung the wheel over the crow’s-nest
escape-hole and had continued in the
same direction and strength, keeping the
wheel and Jackson in the same position.
* * * *
“Billy T.”: Have just spent an hour in
Agra. Came across a few snaps taken
when a bit of leave allowed a bloke to
join those fortunates who’d seen the Taj
and have just .come back to earth. But if
you see the Taj only you’ve missed the
majesty of Agra; it needs the view from
the old Red Fort to round out the picture.
This stands south of the town and is
surrounded by magnificent red sandstone
walls that rise sheer from the bank of
the Jumna; within are superb red build-
ings in perfect condition, despite the fact
that they were being built when, near the
Avon in England, a small boy named
Shakspeare was probably pinching pip-
pins. The guide - books will tell
you the names of the architects
and the nature and quantities of
materials used, but I doubt all
that —I think it’s made from solid dreams.
It still affects,me that way, and when I
tossed the prints back on the table I
didn’t see the dried sea-urchin shell one
of the nippers had put there, and it broke
on the floor. Ever seen the inside of a
“sea egg?” It’s built in five sections,
each with a corrugated edge that, com-
bining strength with beauty, fits perfectly
with the next. Immediately inside that
rippling margin lies an exquisitely-
arranged double-line of tiny holes ; under
a glass they hold their own with the
patterns in perforated marble in the
above-mentioned mausoleum. Inside
these again the- shell is lined into flakes
like flathead flesh, divided —or bound—
by still another wavy joint down the
centre. I suppose every hole, line and
curve of the shell has a utilitarian pur-
pose, but each section is a geometrical
gem —lacework in lime. Shah Jahan
drew his architects from the whole
Moslem world, and of designers, calli-
graphers, draftsmen, sculptors, masons,
mosaicists, inlayers, dome-makers and
general artists employed about 20,000. The
dumb shellfish, working in the dark, em-
ployed himself and depended for
materials on his own saliva or something.
THE TREE.
I am the tree that bore you.
That took your child’s hands,
Filled them with green-leaf and sunshine
And the fruit of promised lands.
I am the tree that loved you
As you carved your name unafraid,
And grew beautiful above you
To give your face my shade.
The kind one, the gentle, strong-limbed
Mother of love in death,
My sap is the blood of your spirit,
My wind the pulse of your breath.
You climbed among my branches,
You plucked my fruit of gold
Still full of sweet tasting
Now you are old.
O I am the grave you come to,
And you shall sleep in me
The sleep of the brave and living,
For I am the great tree.
QUEENSLAND.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM.


“C.E.D.”: That Eddie Ward’s deter-
mination to bring enlightenment to the
poor exploited Papuan is having results
I can testify. We were returning from
the local theatre in Port Moresby one
Saturday night and decided to
stop off at Koki to watch the
natives dancing and singing by
the light of their fires. We
pushed our way through hordes
of the cheerful crowd and got to
where we could view the dance
in progress. It was a spectacular
sight, with the 40 or 50 native
men lined up and stamping for-
ward and back to the rhythm
of monotonously-beaten* tom-
toms, their magnificent bird-of
Paradise headdresses swaying with the
movement of the dancers. But it was
one man’s headdress in particular that
held our attention and displayed the true
benefits of socialism’s amenities: vying
with the brilliance of nature’s colors in
the feathers of the headdress he had
wired into this mass several small electric-
light globes, which were lit by a battery
which was concealed (though Heaven
knows where) on his near-naked body,
* * * *
“Blime”; I’d given Ted a dog, and
he’d taken it to his home town, some 50
miles off. Being there a couple of months
later and not knowing where Ted hung
out, I was wondering how to get a line
on him when I spotted the tyke in the
street. He was wandering round doing
nothing in particular, so I called him
over. Ten minutes or so later, when his
prancing had subsided and he’d shut up
his addresses of welcome that turned
everybody in the street for three blocks,
I asked him where the boss was. He
dived for the big building on the corner,
peered through the doorway, wagged his
rudder energetically, then, turning aside
to the horse-trough, shouted himself a
Jimmy-Woodser. I made for the comer,
waved aside Ringer’s invitation to the
trough, and ran Ted down inside. “How’d
you find me?” he inquired when a few
preliminaries had been sunk. I told him,
“Yair, that’s ’is trouble,” Ted sighed re-
gretfully. “Course I don’t mind you, ol’
man, but that mong don’t discriminate.
Nothin’ ain’t sacred to him. I tell y’,
I ain’t got a retreat left in town that the
missus don’t know about.”
“This is Mr. Cipher , the handwriting expert."
‘Wippegong”: In this land of old, worn
mountains it’s difficult to brand any bird
as a permanent resident of the highlands.
In the Himalayan regions, up amongst
the deodars and rhododendrons, there are
fowl that rarely come below the altitude
of Kosciusko’s roof; but here most of
those usually found where the nights are
cool wander lower when it suits them.
Robins that stay well up in the summer
come down when the frosts are on the
flats, and flit from post to post ahead of
you as you jog along the roads. Gang-
gangs like the hills, but will follow the
feed to lower levels; and the big grey
crirrawong with the musical call can be
seen now and then in company with his
more garrulous fruit-raiding cousin down
where the streams no longer foam.
Crimson rosellas prefer the heights, but
are careful not to miss the ripe maize
along the river flats; and similarly with
a few others their presence in the rarer
air is a matter of preference rather than
permanence. But there’s one big fellow
whose movement toward sea-level indi-
“Signwriter's strike, mate?"
cates that he has been chased temporarily
from the more remote ranges either by
storms or bushfires. If you should be
following the Prince’s Highway keep a
lookout for him as you climb Mt.
Drummer, 30-odd miles on the Victorian
side of the border. On the long climb
from either side most of the above fowl
can be seen or heard, but only in the last
few hundred feet —say at about the
1000 ft. level —will the yellow-tailed black
cockatoo flop across your path. Of very
slow action, you’d wonder how such lazy
movement kept them up—like the hom-
ing black Catalinas drifting over the hill
at Moresby, they seem to be floating on
air rather than gliding through it. Drive
slowly ; they won’t fly far, and before they
take wing again you’ll get close enough
to appreciate why the abos called them
“Kareela.” That’s just what they say, with
the “ee” drawn out; one of the best
examples of naming a bird according to
its call.
**- * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Out on the main road
we met a cove who told us of a scrub-
cutting contract going at a place off in
the hills. So we followed the track 11
miles in, found the homestead, and a
married couple in charge. The boss was
away, but would be back next day. Yes,
he wanted scrub-cutters, and We could
camp in the empty hut that night. Next
day it rained. The married couple didn’t
think the boss would come till it cleared
up, but we could wait. The m.c. were
kind and, I think, glad of a bit of com-
pany. After two days’ rain and no boss
we got sick of it and decided to shove
off. But the m.c. begged us to stay; the
boss would be wild if they let us go, they
said* and what was the use of heading
off in the rain? On the third night, just
on dark, the boss turned up. It was rain-
ing and cold. We told him who we were
and why we were there. He went stone
mad, accused us of being loafers and
wouldn’t give our sort a job if we were
the last men on earth. Naturally, Mat
stood him right up and told him a few
home-truths. He grabbed a shotgun and
ordered us to get. We got. We got our-
selves, our nap and our tucker soaked
that night and shivered till dawn. Id
forgotten it until the other day, when Mat
sent me a cutting telling of the boss s
death. “He was,” said the local paper,
“one of the most respected men in the
district, a good employer and a generous
giver to charity.” Mat added this, in
pencil: “Just as well for him I’m not
St. Peter.”
* * * *
“Taswegian”: Until I went grape-
picking I accepted almost without ques-
tion the often-heard statement that Aus-
tralians are resourceful and ingenious.
But consider the loading and unloading
of grapes for the distilleries. They are
picked into tins holding from 201 b. to
301 b. of fruit and are carted in trucks
with high-sided, tin-lined trays, taking
loads ranging from four to 12 tons. The
usual method of loading is for three or
four men to throw the tins to one or two
on the truck, who empty them and toss
the empties back to the ground. That
hard, slow and monotonous work could
be eliminated with something on fhe
lines of a wheat-loader. At the distillery
the truck-driver unloads his fruit by
means of a long-handled, five-pronged
fork. That’s also hard work, which has
to be done against the clock. Nobody
has thought of so simple a thing as
arranging the receiving-bins so that the
trucks could tip their loads. Next, the
drying-racks. These are made up of five
tiers of wire-netting strained between
posts; when the fruit is dry it is shaken
through the netting on to hessian spread
on the ground. Thus the top layer of
fruit has to be shaken through five lots
of netting. A simple arrangement
whereby, starting from the bottom, each
layer of netting could be removed after
its load of fruit has been shaken through
would fill the bill. But the, ingenuity
alleged to be part of our national make-
up is missing.
* * * *
“Bo”: The new hand had climbed up
on the unattended tractor and was in-
terestedly trying out the various knobs
and levers when it started off. Dad
shrieked something to him from where he
stood at the door of the toolshed, but his
voice was drowned in the roar of the
motor. As the tractor moved off the hand
tried to guide it. Tearing through the
saltbush hedge, the machine churned up a
strip across Mum’s kitchen garden,
narrowly missed the 800-gallon tank,
slewed around and mowed down three
panels of fencing, and to the squawking
of fleeing hens was making a beeline for
the pig-pens when by some queer chance
it went straight two huge tree-
stumps and jammed hard. Dad puffed
up, climbed on to the tractor and switched
off the wildly-thrashing engine ; it would
have been a physical impossibility for
him to have spoken. As he clawed his
hat off and gasped for the breath to allow
egress to the words burning inside him
the hand grinned cheerfully. “By gum,
boss,” he said slowly. “You must’ve
known something plantin’ them two trees
where y’ did. If they hadn’t bin there to
stop the tractor it might’ve done a lot
o’ damage!”
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Little Curl hadn’t been
long back from a city holiday when it was
noticed that he and another party were
contributing heavily to the postal revenue.
Letters came and went in every mail-
large, heavy letters, often carrying extra
postage. Presently her photograph was
on the wall over Little Curl’s bunk, and
we realised that the youth was serious.
What worried us mainly was the inter-
ruption to our sleep. Curl was no writer,
and he had plenty to tell her, apart from
laboriously answering everything she
wrote. He kept the lamp going all hours ;
we banished him to the cookhouse, but
he’d keep coming back asking how to
spell this or that or what some strange
word in her latest letter meant. Pocket-
knife suggested that Curl send her the
local paper, arid young Mull offered to
write a weekly diary for five-bob a time ;
but Curl got offended and wouldn’t speak
to anybody. The boss sent him up to
Balranald with horses to a sale, and when
Curl came back he lugged a heavy parcel
into the hut which turned out to be a
heavy, old-fashioned typewriter with
octagonal keys. He began to perform on
this with one finger at night, and it
sounded like the irregular reports of a
.303 rifle. So he was banished to the wool-
shed, where he was found asleep over the
thing several times. His main trouble with
the machine was that the “e” and “a”
keys invariably failed to make an impres-
sion, and Curl had to go over the letters
with pen and ink filling in the blanks.
The business might have gone on for
months only that a new girl came to
work in the store and Curl suddenly for-
got the mail, the distant one and the type-
writer. The last time I saw it was when
Curl swapped it to a Spanish tomato-
grower down the river for a half-bred
collie pup.
* * * *
“8.A.K.”: Some dogs have a similar
mental outlook to the genus homo regard-
ing fight. I’ve known ones to bail a snake
up and, keeping at a safe distance, bark
madly until a human arrives. The
moment a witness is on the spot courage
comes to the dog; he makes a quick feint,
the snake strikes —and misses. The dog
doesn’t. Of course, a real snake-killer
sneaks noiselessly on its victim, makes the
lightning kill without a sound, and
triumphantly shows the evidence to its
master. But dogs of that sort are excep-
tions ; just as are men who slug it out in
solitude.
* * * *
“Ohinemuri”: Toonkah was in the
middle of his usual three-day “lash”
following receipt of his remittance.
Having passed the stage of telling all
hands about the time he rode in the
Liverpool Grand National, he was being
just a plain nuisance. While Bluey, the
barman, was engrossed in the study of a
doubles-chart, Toonkah sneaked behind
the bar and was helping himself to a
fair-sized “snort.” Blue just spotted him
in time, threw him over the bar, followed
him and then tossed him over a
table and finally dropped him on the
edge of the creek running alongside the
pub. Toonkah looked up and said:
“Ain’t y’ goin’ to complete the coursh
with me?” “Whatyer mean?” asked
Blue. “Well,” said the nuisance, eyeing
the creek, “you’ve put me over everything
else —you may as well shend me over the
water-jump! ”
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Cannibal, nest-robber
and overrated hero though the kooka-
burra undoubtedly is, I’d still have my
bob on him in a popular-bird competi-
tion. Nor is the lovable old villain’s
popularity solely attributable to his much-
advertised penchant for killing snakes.
I once heard an old bushman round off
a tirade about trigger-happy city “sports”
with: “Why, they’d even shoot a jack-
ass!” Not a bad testimonial from a
man who knew exactly how limited
Jacko’s snake-killing was. Everybody
loves a humorist; which is, perhaps, an-
other reason for the bird’s popularity ;
but whether he “laughs” or not is a
moot point. I can’t see anything to
laugh about in having your leg caught
in a rabbit-trap; but a kooka I once re-
leased from the cruel steel jaws must
have seen great humor in it —unless his
vocal effort was his method of swearing.
A little Scottish immigrant with no in-
hibitions recently told me she thought
our “bonniest” bird was that “mitherly-
looking one.” I’ve never regarded Jacko
as “motherly,” but I do think he has
personality. Often I’ve watched with en-
joyment a family group perched on a rail
fence, all heads on one side in that quaint,
quizzical manner. Something in the
short, dewy grass is generally the attrac-
tion —something that comes up from
underground. Suddenly one of the birds
will shoot down, dive his beak under the
grass-roots and return chuckling. Per-
haps keen eyes pick out the prey from
15ft. or more away; but the birds’ atti-
tude is one of listening—which suggests
that they hear the minute wog working
near the surface. Incidentally, a fellow
once bet me that the first six kookas we
saw would, if they were perched at all,
be sitting on dead branches. I lost.
That’s how I found out that Jacko seems
to have a definite dislike for a green-
wood perch; if there is only one dead
bough on a green tree he’ll almost cer-
tainly choose it. Yet he has no objec-
tion to perching on iron rails or similar
objects alien to Nature.
CAN'T AFFORD IT.
They talk to me of saving.
Of counting up my cash,
Not buy the things I’m craving.
Because it would be rash.
They put a ban on spending,
So I can save and hoard;
But it’s no use pretending,
It’s good to buy—
Well, so say I,
The things one can’t afford.
I know they say I’m foolish
To go for life’s grand slams,
That I am worse than mulish,
I’m one the Devil damns,
I can’t afford to buy it,
I’ll crash before the Lord;
But wisdom, I defy it —
It’s sweet to buy
Ere one should die,
The things one can’t afford.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


at #*
■
■
htf
of
if *■
Providing: for
your dependents
TWO POINTS TO BEAR IN MIND
YOUR WILL. However simple your Estate
may be, have your Will drawn by a Solicitor—
and have him keep it up-to-date.
YOUR EXECUTOR. Name Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited as your Sole Executor—or
jointly with a relative or friend.
The Company has the experience and the
facilities to carry out your wishes—as you intend
—in the best interests of your dependents.
There is a booklet “Your Executor and
Trustee” that explains the services rendered by
the Company—and its charges.
’Phone or write for a copy to-day—you will find it
helpful and informative.
PERPETUAL
TRUSTEE COMPANY LIMITED
TEUST AND AGENCY FUNDS
UNDEB ADMINXSTEATION
EXCEED £67,000,000 (the
average Estate being less than
£ 10,000).
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE
AGENT UNDER POWER OP
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES
& OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR,
ETC.
Directors:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman; B. R. KNOX;
ALLEN C. LEWIS; Hon. J. P. ABBOTT, M.H.R.; D. R. LYSAGHT
SAMUEL HORDERN; H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director.
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Manager.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WAGGA WAGGA, TAMWORTH and ORANGE
Business. Relleuy. Etc.
Let's Look Ahead
It would be a bad thing for
Australia, and for the world, if
all took the view that demo-
cratic progress had ended for
civilisation just because, for the
present, Soviet Communism has
taken a grip on the throat of
world intellectual enlightenment
and material progress. Not that
we haven’t a first responsi-
bility to deal with Communism
—far from it. But we should
always bear in mind that there
is something to fight Commun-
ism for; that frustration is our
lot today and that, in Aus-
tralia especially, a prospect of
vast progress lies ahead of the
community if only we utilise our
resources, our initiative and our
energies to the full.
Since 1939 —almost 10 years—
we have had disruption to our
democratic way of life on a
varying scale: first through war,
then through “Labor” politics
that envisaged a Socialistic
revolution involving the social
set-up, the law, industry and eco-
nomics, and finally the open and
insolent attacks by Communists
against all things democratic,
obviously with the intention of
taking over the running of the
country at the point where
Socialists had sufficiently
“softened-up” the resistance of
democratic and constitutional
law and private enterprise to the
seemingly milder form of totali-
tarianism.
A much-improved standard of
living lies ahead of the com-
munity that rejects Commun-
ism and gets on with the job of
doing a fair day’s work for a
fair day’s pay. At present Com-
munists, through trade-unions,
are endeavoring to force money
wages up to a point where costs
will bring a lower living
standard and where any wage,
whatever its amount, will buy
less than it used to, and thus
cause industrial "friction and
breakdown.
With trade-union harmony all
wage-earners would be better
off and, with a greater output
per man per hour, the Com-
monwealth Government, what-
ever its brand of politics, would
be in a much better position to
honor its social-security promises
than it is at the present time. For
whatever the burden of “social-
services” taxation may appear to
be to the income-earner today,
that burden has by no means
ended unless there me real re-
serves of capital assets being
established against the day when
claimants on the social security
funds begin to come forward in
full force. The mere establish-
ment of a money-asset fund
does not meet fully the national
liability to meet old-age pen-
sions and the like. Unless sur-
plus goods are available eventu-
ally for pensioners to buy, then
we get a further inflationary
force at work.
i Inflation is a Communist
weapon of revolution ; “Labor”
has created much inflation.
The wage-earner must be en-
couraged to accept the principle
of a fair day’s work for fair
pay: it represents the solution
to most of his economic and
governmental problems. He has
been deluded long enough with
promises based on the theory of
something for nothing. Sir
Stafford Cripps, in the latest
British Budget, has had to em-
phasise the principle that you
can’t have your cake and waste
it, too.
The wage-earner, with a
sympathetic Arbitration Court
to protect hi§ interests, is ideally
situated in the Commonwealth
if only he is prepared to face
realities before bitter truths are
brought home to him by the
breakdown of law and industry
following the assaults of the
Socialist and Communist revolu-
tionaries, assisted by the wage-
earner’s own temporary lack of
democratic integrity.
You cannot have good govern-
ment without high democratic
principles and sound economic
aims. The Chifley Government
has no democratic principles—
it has made that very plain in
its treatment of the Opposition
in Parliament, in its studied
hoodwinking of the electorate,
and in its totalitarian legislation
—and, whatever its economis
aims, they have resulted in enor-
mous waste of taxpayers’ money
and of manpower. The civil
service has been inflated by the
“ Ring again in the morning, will you ?”
creation .of unnecessary jobs,
public works are often extrava-
gant and ill-advised, and the
Government has done nothing to
put trade-unionism on fhe sane
and progressive path to real
prosperity.
With more elevated demo-
cratic principles, and economic
aims not reduced to the lowest
common denominator o f
“Labor” vote-buying, Australia
could function as a united people
and make the most of the op-
portunities ahead of it. Indus-
trial Labor has travelled a long
way to achieve an arbitration
system such as we have today;
is this, together with the im-
proved economic techniques de-
veloped by the banking system
and by reputable economists, to
be thrown away simply because
political adventurers and revo-
lutionaries feel that if prosperity
and harmony come to the Labor
movement there will be no more
need for agitators and strife-
mongers?
Certain it is that today the
strifemongers and the obscuran-
tists, in the shape of Socialists
and Communists, are standing in
the way of a more secure, more
progressive, more dignified and
more educated existence for
wage-earners and alLthe rest of
the community.
There is a good deal of self-
deceit going on in the trade-
union community today. It is
perhaps prevalent among some
other sections, too. There is a
moral “code” that sanctions any
dishonesty that can be got away
with —tax-evasion, loafing, petty
theft, etc. It’s “all right” so
long as bne doesn’t make it too
hot and “cruel” it. And the
straightgoer often is weak
enough to take the view that
he’ll be regarded as “the worst
in the world” with “the blokes”
if he “pimps” or even protests
to them about it.
That is part of the ominous
set-up as it appears today. But
we mustn’t accept the view that
it’s hopeless. The political
corruption, the Communist
treachery, the decline in morals,
in honesty, in the observance of
the law, in industrial integrity,
have* all been accentuated by
war-time dislocation and post-
war confusion. The past three
or four years were bound to be
difficult; that they were made
ever so much more difficult by
an attempted Socialist-c«wrCom-
munist revolution should not
blind us to the opportunities
offering in this country provided
we return to a situation where
enterprise has its rewards, hard
work receives its appropriate re-
muneration, honesty and in-
tegrity are treated with respect
and political and economic
stability are valued in the eyes
of the electorate.
Australia, industrially, offers
a wide field for development.
With restrictions removed there
are bright prospects ahead of the
energetic and adventurous, and
the prizes that come their way
should be all to the good of the
standard of living of the more
static type of citizen. If de-
mocracy and democratic law,
enterprise and ambition, and an
economic system that recognises
the principle of a fair day’s pay
for a fair day’s work are given
a chance to demonstrate their
value to this southern civilisa-
tion, then Australia must be-
come the continent of this cen-
tury.
Maoriland Share Prices
Shares in New Zealand have
been slowly drifting downwards
for a couple of years but for
brief rallies 18 months ago and
in mid-’4B, and haven’t reached
solid ground yet. There was a
spate of profit-taking last year,
before and after the August
thunderbolt, when 20 p.c. was
added overnight to the value of
N.Z. currency everywhere except
inside the Dominion, but it spent
itself by the year-end. Since
then shares have been in a back-
water. Weather-wise investors
grew chary as shocks, mainly
from across the Tasman, buffeted
their markets. Reserve Bank
controls and M.L.’s policy of
financial isolation, adopted a
shade over 10 years ago when
the country nearly went broke
internationally and Labor
financiers’ hearts skipped a beat,
were thin armor against jolts
from outside. So wobbly ten-
dencies on the share-front went
against sellers as £1 in every £5
was lopped off divs. from Aus-
tralia, and yields from elsewhere
abroad were down in proportion
before they reached M.L. share-
holders. Prices for Australian
shares in N.Z. sagged, but not as
much as the cut in divs,, for there
were enough M.L. investors with
hopes that the Australian pound
might come into line with N.Z.’s
to underpin the market. Maori-
landers, still hoping they’ll be
saved from writing-down Aus-
tralian issues by a full 20 p.c.,
have compromised by going
roughly half-way. B.H.P.’s, for
example, before Easter were
475. 6d., against 525. 9d. in
Sydney.
With price-cutting for shares
all the rage again, M.L. investors
became bargain-hunters. Most
securities, except gilt-edged,
tailed off in buyers’ favor, and
since 1949 opened turnover has
shrunk to little better than a
quarter of boom volume. N.Z.’s
all-groups share-index (base,
1938 equals 1000) reached a peak
of 1628 in April, 1947, dropped
to 1525 five months later, re-
covered to 1575 by Christmas,
1947, receded to 1501 in March,
1948, rose again to 1548 in June,
and then began a slide that
lopped several years’ divs. off
values along most of the share-
front. “Stags” and speculators
took knocks for a while and then
dropped out, groggy.
While cos. saw their shares
slipping, price-control threw sand
in the works by gunning for


REMINGTON
presents the remarkable new
ELECTRIC
SHAVER
Remington ‘Foursome’
Electric Shaver has two
highly efficient round shav-
ing heads and, in addition,
two flat shaving heads with
inside cutters. This gives
the ‘Foursome’ four times
the shaving power of a
single-head shaver. Here
is a new ease and comfort
in shaving that you have
never before experienced,
even if you are one of
those modern men who
have already discovered
the civilised way to shave
—with an electric shaver.
-No preparation
-a faster shave
-no cleaning up
Since 1940 more Remington
Electric Shavers have been sold
than all other makes combined.
Sold by leading Stores, Electrical
Goods Dealers and Jewellers.
Sole Australian Agents: Chartres Ltd., Sydney.
REM-62
TO HEW ZEALAND
Increased T. E. A. L. schedules now
provide 2,000 trans-Tasman air
passages every month. Return fare only
£63 (single £35.) You*re there
few comfortable hours, saving
precious davs for business
or holidays
TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED
In association with Q.E.A., 8.0.A.C. and B.C.P.A.
P 2
L
RESERVATIONS: QANTAS AND LEADING TRAVEL AGENTS
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1878
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
C 0 GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN C. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager-
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
ELECTRICITY IS
INDISPENSABLE
TO FACTORY
AND FARM—TO
SHOP, OFFICE,
AND HOME
YOU can help to ad-
vance Australia’s development by purchasing
ELECTRICITY
A gilt-edged Investment in a
GREAT PUBLIC UTILITY
fd
CITY ELECTRIC LIGHT CO • LTD
(BRISBANE)
invites applications for a New Issue of
£500,000
First Mortgage Inscribed Stock and
Registered Debentures bearing
I°/
4/o
FOR
13
YEARS
Principal repayable 31st January, 1962, subject to the Company's right of earlier re-
payment in the event of the Queensland Government exercising its right of acquisition
on Ist February, 1954, or thereafter.
SECURITY : The issue ranks
with previous issues, totalling
£1,512,000, as a floating first
charge over the whole of the
Queensland assets of the Com-
pany.
COYER FOR ANNUAL IN-
TEREST s 5.11 times on the
basis of net revenue for the
year ended 31st January, 1949.
•
NET TANGIBLE ASSETS
BACKING: £327 for each £lOO
of stock and debentures of this
and previous issues.
•
SINKING FUND : £1 per cent
per annum of the amount of
the issue to be held by the
Trustee for the Stock and
Debenture Holders.
INTEREST PAYABLE s Free
of exchange, half-yearly on
31st January and 31st July in
each year, the first payment
to be made by warrant frotn
date of allotment to 31st
July, 1949.
e
MINIMUM SUBSCRIPTION :
£5O, payable in full or, if
desired, in two instalments.
Subscription Moneys will be
accepted Free of Exchange.
STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING :
The Loan may be sold on the
Stock Exchanges at any time
and will be readily marketable.
The Loan is a
TRUSTEE SECURITY
in Queensland
SUBSCRIPTION LISTS
NOW OPEN
COMPANY’S
IMPORTANT ACTIVITIES
The Company holds an exclus-
ive franchise for the supply of
electricity over an area of
10.000 square miles in South
Eastern Queensland, comprising
the main industrial and com-
mercial centres of Brisbane
(except that by agreement the
Brisbane City Council is per-
mitted to continue certain ex-
isting supplies within that area)
the cities of Ipswich and Bris-
bane, four towns and 23 shires,
besides supplying electricity in
bulk for the Darling Downs, in-
cluding Toowoomba and War-
wick. It also supplies the Tweed
Shire in Northern New South
Wales. Paid-up share and de-
benture capital total £4,564,564
and gross assets are valued at
over £8,800,000. Electricity out-
put has increased from 20 mil-
lion units for the four years
ended 31st January 1917, to
1.000 million units in the four
years ended 31st January,
1949. Considerable expansions
are in progress in keeping with
the great industrial develop-
ment of Queensland.
APPLY
NOW
Prospectus available from and Appli-
cations may be lodged direct at
any office of The English Scottish and
Australian Bank Ltd. (Bankers for the
Issue) in Queensland and at Sydney,
Melbourne, Adelaide or Hobart or at the
offices of The National Bank of Austral-
asia Ltd., at Ipswich, Maryborough,
Bundaberg, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Townsville or Cairns.
or through any
Member of a Recognised
Stock Exchange
Loan Underwritten by
J. B. WERE & SON
(Members of The Stock Exchange
of Melbourne)
Melbourne & Sydney
LISTS CLOSE
NOT LATER THAN
MAY 23, 1949
profits. There’s a struggle on
now to hold or raise turnovers
to offset high wages (soon to be
lifted another to 4d. an hour
by the Arbitration Court) and
other inflated costs, with the bet-
ting about even as to whether
more money in workers’ pockets
will keep business sailing along
merrily or tightening of purse-
strings will spread beyond invest-
ment channels. Australia’s P.M.
Chifley rocked sensitive Maori-
landers, as well as Australians,
in a pre-Easter warning that
prices, not volume of output,
were propping up Australian
prosperity in unstable equili-
brium that couldn’t be expected
to last. Many in N.Z. have an
uneasy feeling that the balance
in Australia is as precarious as
on their side. Cos. can’t escape
the squeeze on profits and divs.,
for there’s no place to run for
shelter. Chairmen, who aren’t
supermen, will need more than
ordinary mastery of words wEen
they sum up the situation and,
perhaps, peer into the future at
annual meetings during the main
dividend season in May and
June.
Ampol Petroleum
' A ss. rise in Ampol ordinary
scrip was the Stock Exchange
reaction last week to a brim-
mingly confident statement by
the board regarding its oil search
in W.A. American and local
experts are “confident,” the
board claimed, that a large oil-
field will materialise around
North West Cape, where Ampol
has been prospecting. Drilling
will start in January, and a total
outlay of £1,000,000 was men-
tioned. It hasn’t been decided
whether to seek finance in
America or Australia.
Since the war Ampol has been
associated with the Richfield Oil
Corporation of California in its
Westralian searches, and the
chairman told shareholders last
December that if big expenditure
seemed justified “a separate ex-
ploration company” would be
set up, giving Ampol full Aus-
tralian distributing rights.
Ampul's ords. were granted
’Change-listing last September
after amendments to the articles
and the capital structure. When
the co, was formed in 1936, the
promoters had taken up £B5OO
deferred-ordinary scrip which
carried special voting and profit
rights. This was converted to
ordinary capital last year, and
deferred-shareholders received a
bonus dividend of £73,950 (in
scrip) for their privileges for-
gone. The div. came from
nominal reserves, which under-
went several changes in the con-
solidated balance-sheet last term,
including one unexplained re-
duction of £111,492. Reserves
now amount to £228,105 —or
£33,355 less than intangible assets
in the books.
Although intangibles also were
heavily written down last term
(by £149,067) they still amount
to £261,460. The main item is
premiums paid for the shares of
Alba Petroleum Co., taken over
in 1945 at a cost of about
£424,144.
Ampol’s latest declared profit
of £164,444 was more than
twice the average in the previ-
ous three terms, and was partly
owing to “unusually favorable
freight-rates” picked up on sub-
chartering work. Two oil-
tankers which the co. took over
in 1947, under “long-term
charters,” to bring oil from the
Persian Gulf, have a carrying-
capacity in excess of the gallon-
age which Ampol can import
under present dollar restrictions.
The vessels are being sub-con-
tracted profitably on transport-
work to other countries. Ampol
itself distributed 21,000,000
gallons of motor-spirit last year,
and its total sales amounted to
£3,665,700.
On last week’s higher price of
355. for the £1 ords., yield is
is 4.3 p.c, on the present 1\ p.c.
dividend basis, and the shares
have 19s. 2d. tangible cover.
Comment of the principal
Commonwealth geologist, Dr.
H. G. Raggat, on the North
West Cape project is that the
area has always been regarded
as “quite promising,” and if it
does prove fruitful the area in-
volved could be very large ; but
he emphasised that drilling
would be the only real test.
Westralian Government geolo-
gists say there are no surface
gases, oil-seepages or other in-
dications apart from the favor-
able appearance of the rock
structures.
Gartrell-White Offer
Apart from the attractive
terms secured by Gartrell White
directors in their negotiations
for selling the business to the
Weston group, shareholders can
be thankful for the protection
received against premature leak-
ages. A week before the board
was in a position to give full
details of the offer it circularised
shareholders with a warning to
hold their shares. Its action is
amply justified by the margin
between the ’Change price of
325. for the fully-paid £1 ords.
ruling on the day of the circular
and the Weston offer of 575. 6d.
On book-values at June 30
last these shares had net tangible
asset backing of 225. lid.,
mainly in fixed assets ; there was
another Bs. a share represented
by “goodwill, at cost.” The ord.
dividend has been 6i p.c. for
the last five years. Last term’s
profit of £22,418 —the best since
1948 —came largely from the
pastry side of the Gartrell busi-
ness, Although bread sales
were a record (about 14£ mil-
lion loaves for the year), baking
and delivery costs were high and
retail prices rigidly controlled.
Similar terms, on a pro rata
basis, have been offered by
Weston’s to holders of the ords.
paid to 7s. only, Gartrell’s pre-
ference shareholders aren’t being
bought out, but their nominal
8 p.c. dividend will no longer be
subjected to the statutory reduc-
tion applied to them since 1936.
The price offered for the ords.,
incidentally, is about 10 times
that obtainable in 1932.
Weston’s offer amounts to
£437,718 for the Sydney co.’s ord.
capital of £152,250. The group
already has big interests in
Canada and U.S.A. as well as in
the United Kingdom, where 40
or so bakery and pastry sub-
sidiaries are under its control.
Dunlop New Zealand, Ltd.,
biggest of the trio of tyre-manu-
facturing cos. which plan to
supply at least 90 p.c. of the
Dominion’s tyres when they get
fully into their stride, had a set-
back last year (ended Dec. 31).
Higher import costs in the first
six months and the sharp drop
in M.L.’s exchange rate in the
second took all the profit out of
business. Under the new pound
the co. had to face a revaluation
of assets. The year’s loss of
£5520, after £16,000 for taxes,
compared with net profit of
£43,402 and taxes £89,800 in
1947. Pref. div. of 4\ p.c. took
£19,511. Directors say taxes
appear “disproportionately high”
due to exceptional items of ex-
penditure which have been fully
written off, but were not allow-
able in tax assessment. Volume
of business In 1948 was “well
maintained within the limits of
import licences granted.” De-
velopment of distributing
channels in readiness for market-
ing products, particularly tyres,
was continued. Like the other
two cos. in the chain, Dunlop is
pioneering in a field where short-
age of new cars might tempor-
arily limit the market.


SINCE!
1047-
r
MAKERS
OF GOOD WINE =
FOR MORE THAN:
—A CENTURY—
PERSONAL ITEMS
R. C. Wilson, newly christened M.L.C.,
and managing-director of Grazcos, is
the chap who ensures that The Bul-
letin’s Man on the Land’s shorn sheep
has nothing to worry about. Born in
Mudgee, he helped finish the first A.l.F.’s
job. and took up a soldier’s block at
Merriwa before joining Grazcos. He is
married to a Boston girl, is a young 53,
likes tennis, loves gardening and hopes to
dig many a bed before throwing in the
trowel.
George Hermon Gill, the Navy’s World
War II historian, sailed into The Bul-
letin after a trip up from Melbourne in
cruiser Australia. He is well-rigged for
the history job. Before freelancing into
the Inky Way, he shipped with the Mer-
chant Navy, before and during the first
scrap, and in the second was publicity
censorship officer at Navy Office, in close
touch with those action reports and battle
summaries on which he is drawing for
the history. Between wars he served on
the short-lived Melbourne “Star,” and
when it died shifted to the “Argus,”
where for years he columnised the doings
of that well-known pair, Walter and
Hermon. During 1942-45 he edited the
H.M.A.S. volumes for the Australian
War Memorial. Gill has worked three
years on the two volumes of the naval
story and expects to finish it in another
four. Married to artist Esther Paterson,
who recently held an exhibition in Mel-
bourne, he edits in his spare time “The
Navy,” the Service’s excellent little
monthly. >
“K.H.H.”: As would be expected of
one of Australia’s recognised naturalists,
David Fleay kept snakes and other
neighbor-terrors in his backyard when a
youth. He stepped over the border from
Melbourne recently to see the pair of lyre-
birds he caught for Adelaide Zoo safely
settled in their new quarters. Once a
schoolteacher in Auburn, (Vic.), he found
study of his backyard tenants so much
more absorbing that he made it
a full-time job. The Australian section
of Melbourne Zoo owes much to the
change, as does the Colin MacKenzie
wild-life sanctuary at Healesville, where
Fleay claims to have bred the first
platypus in captivity—lB months ago he
made naturalist history by transplanting
three of the tribe to New York. Retired
now from fhe sanctuary, he spare-times
with writing nature articles which Ameri-
cans are avidly reading.
Maorilander J. M. Buckeridge is the
new director of civil aviation in the
British zone of Germany. Two years ago
the British Air Ministry made him opera-
tions-officer in Scotland and later deputy-
director of aerodromes. Before heading
for England he had held the M.L. coun-
terpart of his present job as well as a
commercial pilot’s ticket, and was Waira-
rapa Aero Club’s instructor.
“Trinco”: The Admiralty will appreciate
Vice-Admiral Alan Kirk’s appointment as
ambassador to Moscow. Just before the Japs
hit Pearl Harbor he was American naval
attache in London. There was much vital
information the U.S. Navy felt it needed,
which the Admiralty would not have revealed
to the Archbishop of Canterbury. Kirk’s job
was to get it; he did, using a delicate blend of
aggressiveness and discretion that gained him
the respect and liking of the most tradition-
bodnd Sea Lord. Later he returned the favor.
After Goebbels had orally sunk the Ark Royal,
Kirk issued a statement that he had just visited
her and attended church on her quarter-deck.
He was a gunnery specialist, and one of his
first shoots was to fire the welcoming salute to
a visiting dignitary from the U.S. gunboat
Wilmington in China. But he let go at such
close range that.the blast lifted the stovepipe
hat of the exalted one into the water, where,
with a humiliating gurgle, it sank. He did
better at the Sicily landing, where his battle-
ships’ guns reduced the number of lives lost
to a microscopic fraction of the men under his
command. Later he commanded the American
amphibious forces in the Atlantic, and with his
heavy stuff helped the R.N. to smother the
trembling beaches at Normandy. 'Kirk is widely-
read, loves poetry next to gunnery, and front-
face could pass for Noel Coward.
Comedian Will Hay, who died last week
in London, brought his “schoolmaster”
act to Australia during a world tour in
1923-34. Born in Aberdeen, he was as
little like a comedian in .private life as it
was possible to imagine. His basic train-
ing was as an engineer ; his interests were
catholic. Round the mid-’twenties any
roarings in a fog-laden air over Staglane,
reckoned too dangerous for ordinary
fliers, could be put down to the precarious
soarings of Hay (usually with trembling
pupil). He was a good pilot in a not-so-
good aircraft of pre-Moth vintage. He
was also a Fellow of the Royal Astro-
nomical Society and served in World
War 11, at about 50, as a lieutenant
R.N.V.R. (Special Branch), and later as
an instructor of sea-cadets. His theatrical,
film and broadcasting career was all built
round his schoolmaster act, of which
there were many imitators (including one
which runs currently on Australian radio
stations), but no equals.
It’s a long reach from the grazing
paddocks of Mount Gambier to the
watery slopes of the Pacific, but graziers
Frank and John Livingstone will make
it when Kurrewa 111 shakes out her
sails for ’Frisco and the ’Frisco-
Honolulu yacht race. Both men have
sailed since boyhood, and the 7000-odd-
mile tack up to the starting-line should
not worry them unduly, Kurrewa is
Bermuda-rigged, 58ft. long and works a
crew of eight. Setting out on this bid
the Livingstones began with a land
misadventure; their car, packed with
compasses, sextants and so on, was
pinched, but later was recovered, cargo
intact.
The M.L. Associated Press’s new rep.
in London is N. P. Webber, late of the
Wellington “Post.” He toured over that
way with the Fourth Field Regiment,
edited the Jayforce (M.L.’s 8.C.0.F.)
“Times” and put his own regiment’s
history on paper.
After nearly 30 years’ claim on the
Chair of English at Otago Uni., Maori-
land, Professor H. Ramsay is retiring
next year. A product of Auld Scotia’s
educational establishments Forfar
Academy and St. Andrew’s Uni. —before
crossing to M.L. he was at Scots College,
Melbourne, afterwards shifting to Perth
Uni. as lecturer. An eminent scholar
whose lectures were leavened by a dash
of humor.
A couple of years ago the committee
of the Melbourne Royal Show were find-
ing things crook in Tallarook and
wondering how they were going to meet
payment for the production of future blue
ribbons to adorn the bulls’ necks. Alec
G. Hunter, whose grin here presented by
Mcßeath is well-known to turf-men, sug-
gested .night-trotting. This year, with
attendances round about 30,000, average
Value of trotters risen from £2OO to £2OOO,
prize for next year’s classic to be £lO,OOO,
and fashion and society cashing in on the
frenzy, committeemen are scratching their
heads working out plans for an arena
ALEC HUNTER, Night-trotter.
more ambitious than anything the’
Romans ever conceived. Alec Hunter,
besides being senior vice-president of the
R.A.S., is closely associated with all racing
committees, and owns the 2200-acre stud-
farm at Seymour, whence have come,
among other horses, Skipton, St. Fairy,
Simmering, Northwind, Heros and
Primavera. He recently imported Lord
Derby’s famous sire Neapolitan.
The calculating eye of Bert Schumacher,
as here shown, might be envisaging better
things for South Australia’s Public Ser-
vice, of which he was recently appointed
Commissioner. Or it could be merely the
window of a mind concerned with the
fruit-production of his hens, of which he’s
a breeder. Just crossed the 50-mark in
age —he has been over that border often
enough in first-class cricket —he joined
BERT SCHUMACHER,
Norwood’s galloper.
the P-.S. in 1914, interrupted that to visit
France with the first A.1.F., and since
1932 has been an industrial officer with
his first employer. But, some Adelaide
fans may contend that his fame derives
mostly from the football field; mpst
Croweaters at some time have seen his
flashing game as rover with Norwood
League Club; and he represented his
State for a season. He raises flowers as
well as fowls.
An Australian who has found honor
outside his own counjtry, and, with his
latest job, is likely to find it here also,
Raymond O’Connell moves from teaching
the piano at the Royal College in London
to the staff of the Elder Conservatorium
at Adelaide Uni. At 15 he won
a scholarship to the Royal College of
Music, and followed it up with the in-
stitute’s Gold Medal, its Patrons’ Prize
Of £2OO and some extremely tuneful praise
from the principal. In World War II
he had four years with the R.A.F.,
wangled leave for 8.8. C. broadcasts,
went to India with the cease-fire and
played in the Bombay Symphony
Orchestra. Two years ago he became a
permanent member of the Royal College’s
august examining board, the same year
went to Harrow as piano-teacher there
and last year played before Princess
Elizabeth after bringing home the
Queen’s Prize. And all this behind him
at the age of 27.
Appointed acting-chairman of the Vic-
torian State Electricity Commission, Clive
Selwyn Steele has before him the biggest
job of any Victorian civil servant and a
distinguished record in two world wars
behind him. In the first one he gained
the M.C. and D. 5.0.; in the second, from
which he emerged a major-general, he was
awarded the Greek Military Cross. He
was Engineer-in-Chief of the A.M.F. from
1942 to 1946, A consulting engineer by
profession, he is director of many com-
panies, including the Metropolitan Gas
Co., Australian Paper Manufacturers,
Australian Mutual Provident, David
Syme, Ltd. and Lakes Oil. As the Act
provides that the head of the commission
must have no other job to distract him,
he has been granted leave of absence from
all these directorates.
There may be a term equivalent to “old
salt” in the Air Force ; if there is, Flight-
Lieutenant Norman Dyer, the first man
to win the R.A.A.F.’s long-service
medal, can lay claim to it. Recently
grounded for good after 38-years’ service,
the old-timer remembers flights over
Port Phillip in a Bristol “box-kite,” then
the A.F.C.’s trainer, the open cockpit
of which gave a creditable impression of
supersonic speed. He moved to the
R.A.A.F. when it was formed on April
1, 1921, and in the peace between wars
specialised in engines and airframes. On
return from service with No. 1 Squadron
at Khota Bahru in 1942 he spent the rest
of the war passing on his maintenance
knowledge to ground-crews. A solid
chap with a jaw like a kauri stump and
a birdman’s wind-narrowed eyes, his
retirement is a real loss to his service.
Even the critical Abo. Council has
found no fault with the sincerity of E. O.
Schlunke’s farm stories which he’s
farmed into The Bulletin over the last
dozen years or so ; his collecting of the
Narraburra Shire Council’s gold cup in a
recent soil-conservation competition ex-
plains why. Hailing from Temora
(N.S.W.), he farms there the land his
father farmed, and has left it only for a
spell at Hiu'lstone Agricultural High
School, where he won a scholarship in
agricultural science. Sowing his wheat
with rye-grass and clover, which after
harvesting grips the soil together,
Schlunke made his farm like a vast sheet
of blotting-paper, on which little of the
district’s 18in. rainfall was wasted. In
addition to wheat and sheep his land has
produced enough ideas for a sheaf of
short stories, a couple of newspaper
serials and a novel.
The first graduate of the Melbourne
University School of Agriculture to re-
ceive a doctorate of philosophy is 26-
year-old Lloyd Jones, of Ballarat. A
doctorate of philosophy can be obtained
in any faculty and has nothing to do with
philosophy as such. Jones won his with
a thesis on “Chemistry of Manganese
Oxide” which the examiners declared to
be a real contribution to knowledge that
will influence future workers in the same
field. i,
The Last Post has sounded for Captain
Richard Breydon, a veteran of the First
Queensland Mounted Infantry (pre-
cursors to the Light Horse of World War
I). A fine horseman from the Darling
Downs, he took his horse and his unit
to Queen Victoria’s London Jubilee in
1897, and at a royal tournament there
showed .the Season how the lean
colonials ride. He had two years’ train-
ing with the Scots Guards before sailing
for President Kruger’s show. Boer War
old-timers will remember Sannah’s Post,
where eight Bananalanders, Breydon
among them, held off a heavy force of
Boers for several savage hours before
capture. * After release from Watervaal
p.-0.-w. camp by a British force he re-
turned to Light-Horse instructing in Bris-
bane and 30 years’ service in the per-
manent military forces. One son, Cecil,
manages a large Sydney drapery firm and
another, Eric, was first-lieutenajQt of
sloop Swan in Hitler’s war.
Into the Silence;
In Melbourne, at 80, Colonel Richard Crouch,
M.H.R. for Corio in the first Federal Parlia-
ment. Victorian art and literature benefited
from his generosity, and in Ballarat, his birth-
place, he erected the bronze busts of all Aus-
tralia’s Prime Ministers lining the P.M.’s
avenue in the Botanical Gardens there.
At Wagga (N.S.W.), at 88, John Dunn, one-
time champion ploughman of Australia. He
learned the game near Shepparton (Vic.), and
won the Goulburn Valley championship at 19,
after which he ploughed into the Victorian
championship and later the S. Australian title.
At 83, in Maoriland, where he moved from
Cambridge University at the end of last century,
Sir Thomas Easterfield, in his day one of
M.L.’s outstanding scientists. He was first
professor of chemistry Wellington’s Victoria
University, and presided over most of the
Islands’ scientific institutions.
In London, at 79, Admiral Henry Grant,
C. 8., until the end of World War II managing-
director of the Marconi company group. His
last first-war command was cruiser Hampshire,
in which Lord Kitchener went down.
At Glenelg (S.A.), at 74, Herbert Richards,
M.H.A., founder, in 1904, of one of the State's
earliest motor-firms, and chairman of directors
of the large motor-building factory into which
it grew at Keswick. He was a mayor of Unley,
in Adelaide, and represented the old Sturt
district in the Assembly for nine years.
In Melbourne, at- 74, the Rev. Dr. Charles
Atkinson, former president of the Methodist
Conference of Victoria and Tasmania. A
scholarly cleric, graduate of Melbourne Uni ;
and one-time principal of the Methodist Ladies’
College in Adelaide.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
At the first of the series of Beethoven
violin sonatas with which Hephzibah
Menuhin and Ernest Llewellyn delighted
their audience, the pianist discarded the
simple white frocks of former appear-
ances in favor of a sophisticated gown of
soft dove-grey moire taffeta. To a bouf-
fant skirt, caught up each side, shep-
herdess fashion, was allied a fitting bodice
with a heart-shaped top finished with
narrow pleating and supported by shoe-
string shoulder-straps. Husband Lindsay
Nicholas made his first appearance on the
Town Hall stage when he turned the
pages of his wife’s music. -Members of
the Nicholas clan in the audience in-
cluded Mrs. G. R. Nicholas, whose black
velvet gown had a crinoline skirt and a
bodice embroidered with blue and crystal
beads; her wrap was of red-fox fur. A
platina-fox cape was worn by Mrs.
Edmund Alcock over her black crepe
gown. Mrs. A. W. Alcock covered her
black gown with a dyed-ermine coat.
Mrs. Conrad Charlton’s gown was of
apple-green velvet.
At St. Peter’s, Toorak, Rev. Father
Ebsworth blessed the vows made by
Judith Mary, only daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. H. J. Smith, of Caulfield, and
Kenneth Oswald, elder son of Mr. and
Mrs, Marshall Greig, of Elwood. The
bride, who was given away by her father,
wore a lovely gown of deep-cream tulle
over taffeta. Cream-toned French lace
fashioned the fitting bodice, which was
encrusted with pearls; from a Juliet cap
of pearls flowed a long tulle veil. Gar-
denias and pink roses formed the small
posy. Bouffant frocks of pale-blue, lace
and tufie with cyclamen flowers in their
hair to match their small , posies were
worn by Mrs. T. Brown, matron-of-
honor, and June Murdoch, bridesmaid.
Best man was the bridegroom’s brother
Harley, while the bride’s brother Richard
was groomsman. Reception was held at
the New Alexander, Mrs. Smith receiving
the guests in a gown of hyacinth-blue
crepe with misty-pink accessories. Mrs.
Marshall Greig, who received with her,
wore a black moss crepe gown. The
honeymoon will be spent touring Tas-
mania.
Under the direction of Terence Crisp
the Clyde Old Girls’ Dramatic Group
will present Stephen Powys’s “Wise To-
morrow” at the Union Theatre tonight and
tomorrow night in aid of the Clyde War
Memorial Fund and the Isobel Hender-
son Kindergarten Fund. Mrs. Colin
Clarke is president of the committee
arranging front-of-the-house details, and
she will be assisted by Christina Synnot,
hon. secretary, and Leslie Henderson,
hon. treasurer. Mesdames Bill Wallace
and D. Deasey are in charge of publicity.
Tommy Harrison is doing the hats for
the production and the Riddell Bros, the
stage decor, while Douglas Cox is provid-
ing the smart gowns worn by the players.
Old Clyde girls appearing in “Wise To-
morrow” are Margaret Horne, Sadie
Hancock, Margaret Gluth, Margot
Thomas, Verity Alley and Margaret
Scarlett. Ticket secretaries are Mrs.
Elizabeth Draffin, Win. 8341, Mrs. W.
Gluth, Win. 637, and Mrs. W. Murray,
BJI3IO.
At the late-afternoon party which she
hostessed at the Lyceum Club, Mrs. W.
E. Agar announced that Admiral Pizey,
R.N., would open the exhibition of
Norma Bull’s pictures at the Town Hall
on May 16. Norma’s pictures of war-
time Britain will be on view from that
date until May 28, and proceeds will
assist the British Memorial Fund and St.
Mary’s Mission. With her husband, Pro-
fessor Agar, Mrs. Agar welcomed her
guests in a saxe-blue coat-frock trimmed
with crystal buttons and a blue hat with
black osprey trimmings. Among the
guests were Mrs. Guy Bake well, in a
black Persian-lamb-trimmed coat with a
powder-blue felt hat; Mrs. W. H. Sloane,
whose wedgwood-blue coat was worn
with a black hat trimmed with pastel-
pink taffeta ribbon ; Mrs. H. G. Connell,
her mulberry wool-romaine frock worn
with a matching hat; Mrs. Fred Den-
nett, a small green hat topping her black
Persian-lamb coat; Mrs. Richard Arm-
strong, her suit and small hat in grey
tonings ; Marjorie Blamire, her hat a gay
splash of mauve, green, cerise and pale-
yellow taffeta; and Mrs. G. Ardley,
whose beige kasha ensemble was worn
with a matching hat.
So great was the demand for tickets
this year that the Student Representative
Council found it necessary to hold not
one but three Commencement Balls. The
first of these was held in St. Kilda Town
Hall. In the official party were vice-
chancellor John Medley and his lady,
she in an attractive ensemble of pale-
lilac. Organiser of the ball, Anne Gil-
felder, wore with her bouffant gown of
lime-green embroidered organdie a black
lace scarf and matching mittens. Mar-
garet Ann Burgoyne’s turquoise-blue
brocade gown was embellished with a
trail of pink and red roses. Joan Yates
had scarf draperies for her pale-green
chiffon gown. - Toni Kirkpatrick’s gold
brocade gown featured a draped skirt and
ropes of pearls for shoulder-straps ; Sue
Hamley allied a gold brocade bodice to
a bouffant pale-blue tulle skirt. Ruth
Wilkinson’s blue-and-silver brocade gown
with its wide skirt was matched by a
wide stole. White taffeta with tiers of
white lace on the skirt comprised Kath
Trezise’s contribution to sartorial beauty.
A white moire taffeta gown and red
velvet sash made striking combination for
Zara Davies. An unusual dinner-gown
of white-spotted Chartreuse crepe was the
choice of Ann Church, Navy-and-white-
striped taffeta formed Margaret White-
man’s graceful gown. The gown worn
by Pat Grant had an • off-the-shoulder
bodice. -Evelyn Cussen was in powder-
blue taffeta.
The attractive subject of this John
Duncan study is Patric, younger
daughter of Dr. and Mrs. T. J. K. Whit-
tam, of Albert Park. Patric, who with her
sister Yvonne designs smart hats in their
salon, has found time to take on the
duties of hon. treasurer for the Sacre
Cceur Past Pupils’ Association Ball, which
will be held on May 4 at St. Kilda Town
Hall. The Lady Mayoress, Mrs. J. S.
Disney, will receive the debutantes, and
Mrs. Len Buxton is the capable presi-
dent of the ball committee. All the pro-
ceeds from the ball will go to the school’s
Overseas Relief Fund. Patric has success-
fully acted in this capacity on two former
occasions. Ticket secretaries are Mrs.
R. M. Biggins, UL6555, and Margaret
Byrne, Win. 2055.
The official enclosure for the guests at
the St. Catherine’s Old Girls’ Association
Ball at St. Kilda Town Hall was turned
into a replica of a fifteenth-century
drawing-room. Chairs of this period,
together with silver candelabra on the
table, as well as masses of flowers brought
from Macedon, were arranged by Mrs.
Lindsay Biggins. At the back of the
official enclosure were tall white urns
filled with tawny hydrangeas and autumn
foliage. The stage was dominated by the
school crest worked in gold marigolds
set on a pale- and dark-blue background.
Pinned on the cloths which covered every
table were rosettes in the colors of the
school. The president of the association,
Monica Starke, received the official guests
in a black gown with a hip-length floral
jacket. President of the ball committee,
Kathleen Lascelles, wore white Arctic-
fox furs with her draped gown of
japonica-red chiffon. Marigold Myer, a
committee member, had a leaf pattern
worked with silver beads on the bodice
of her pastel-pink satin gown. Barbara
Tunbridge, who did a good job of work
on the publicity side, added to her Royal
Stuart tartan taffetas a little bolero of
white sharkskin and matching tartan.
Diana Tier’s blue crepes were banded
in silver brocade. Ethnee Hartnett put a
white lace stole over her floral gown.
Mrs. C. Woodcock’s mauve shot-taffeta
gown was worn under a red velvet tailored
coat. Red sequins trimmed the hip-
length jacket Mrs. Ron Marriott wore
over her black gown. Judy- Kiddle’s
white nylon gown was patterned with
hand-painted flowers.
From Sydney
The Anzacs—so,ooo of them—marched
again last Monday morning, and that
was the finest hour of a week crowded
with movement and glittering event-
movement and event which could not have
been ours but for their sacrifice. And
this seeming blatant city that refuses to
wear its heart on its sleeve, but keeps it
throbbing decent and kind beneath the
tinsel of everyday, did not forget. It
went about its races and show and boat-
races, its dances and its cocktail parties
not unmindful of long-dead soldier com-
panions who had shared such joys 10,
or maybe 20-odd, years ago. They are
unforgettable. So, not alone on the great
anniversary does this nation mourn its
dead and honor its living soldiers, but in
all its days that were the Past, that are
the Present, and that will be the Future.
This is Betty Lucas, who is Juliet in
the current production of “Romeo and
Juliet” which opened at the Metropoli-
tan’s new theatre in the hall of Christ
Church St. Laurence, at 505 Pitt-street,
last Friday. Lawrence Le Guay photo.
From the terrace of Government
House last Thursday afternoon the Girl
in the Flat Opposite looked at the 4000
or so wandering about the lawns and
gloomily predicted a sharp increase in
the sale of cough mixtures. She also said
that the band —the Police Scottish —
should swing into hot rhythm to keep
their knees from getting cold.
The coldest April day in 22 years and
a persistent rainfall were not the happiest
ingredients for a garden party. BuUthe
invitations had gone out and at Gov-
ernment House they had decided not to
disappoint their public. The Governor,
Lieut-General Northcott, sturdily and
smilingly stepped among his guests.
Elizabeth Northcott, who accompanied
her father in his rounds, was attractive
in a pink angora suit and blue hat
adorned with roses. Archbishop Mowll
and Mrs. Mowll, State Premier James
McGirr and Mrs, McGirr, and Chief
Justice Jordan and his wife were
the afternoon’s importants. Sheila
Collett’s suit of deep-blue was worn
with a large pink felt hat. Robin and
Verone Clay, nieces of the Jordan lady,
were among the noted. The wife of
Argentine’s consul Fernandez Yayle wore
a cavalier hat in jade blue, with a long-
sweeping ostrich-feather plume. With
this she wore a frock of the same shade
of blue, its skirt finely pleated. Dr. Marie
Hamilton was another who chose blue
for her afternoon-frock. Mrs. Persia
Porter wore a brand-new hat. This had
a graceful black plume tipped with blue.
Mrs. Graham Body and Mrs. R. Paterson
were among the smart wearers of black.
Mrs. H. J. Brady wore a beige beret
with her slimly-fitting black ensemble.
Full marks to Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere
for laughing blithely beside the sad-look-
ing fountain. There were nice tufts of
Persian-lamb on the lapels of her black-
cloth coat. Kathleen Gaden, of the Over-
seas League, and Beulah Bolton, of the
Victoria League, were there. So were Col.
“Paddy” Moore and his wife. The Cle-
ment Chapmans and the George Bells had
popped across the road from their Mac-
quarie-street flats.
By be-streamered bus, by car and by
train 15,000 people went to Penrith to
see the boat race on the Nepean. This
year the Head of the River was won by
the Shore Eight, and no doubt the result
was a great joy to headmaster and former
coach L. C. Robson, ill in hospital. The
success was an added glory to the family,
as at his father’s illness, 22-year-old son,
Alistair, took over and for the last three
weeks had coached the winning crew.
The day was the best brand of autumn —
crisp air and blue sky.
Personally, this Letter approved of the
hats at the autumn meeting. On aesthetic
grounds she is all for feathers adorning
the millinery (they were not the ostrich-
feathers of the stage Cockney). These
feathers were saucy, provocative and
occasionally coy. What is more, the
Randwick hats carried the idea that all
punters are seeking a feather to fly with
direct to the Goddess of Fortune. The
poor old bookies did one of their biggest
hand-outs in years. Anyway, if fashion
doesn’t decree a feather in the hat she
drops a flower on the brim, or, worst of
all, ordains a nest of tulle or veiling on
the crown. A vogue worthy a second and
third glance was the soft-folded cloche,
studded with nail-heads. Mrs. Bill
Adams’s grey velvet was a striking ex-
ample.
The rain did not fall till Ladies’ Day,
but it was a grey meeting—grey suits,
grey hats, were almost an unbroken pro-
cession. One nearly cried “Hurray! ”
for Mrs. Ernest Watt’s cherry-red suit and
unusual cloche and tiny muff of leopard-
skin. Governor-General McKell and
Mrs. McKell were among the week’s race-
goers. Her grey suit was smartly tailored
and was worn with a matching hat on
which were touches of deep-blue. There
was no matinee at the Royal on Wed-
nesday, so Anniegetyourgun Evie Hayes
went out to the races. But she knows
you can’t get a winner with a gun, so
she parked that in her dressing-room.
Mrs. Phillip Keen and Mrs. John Bruxner
were among the meeting’s noted.
English visitors Sir Harold and Lady
Howitt were seen. From Auckland came
Mrs. John Carpenter.
For the modest sum of two-and-six-
pence on Saturday afternoon, May 7,
you can listen to good music, gaze on a
pleasant garden at Warrawillah, one of
Hunter’s Hill’s oldest homes. You can,
above all, help a group of blind and deaf
fellow-citizens. Warrawillah, which will
accommodate a group of these men, was
opened by K. M. McCaw, M.L.A., last
week.
Easter Monday’s late-afternoon party
to aid the funds of the Coral Sea Ball is
still causing women guests to wonder how
the hostesses, Mrs. D. Craig, Mrs. G.
Pratten, Mrs. G. McCadden and Mrs.
W. J. Smith and Marton Hall did it. After
four days’ holiday (and you know what
catering for the home larder is) they
turned on an array of sumptuous food.
This party went on to 9.30. Sid Albright
in impeccable chef’s cap and overalls
served hotdogs, and Mrs. Marcel Deky-
vere served champagne cocktails with her
own brand of sparkling smile. Other
“barmaids” were Mrs. Ernest Watt, Mrs.
Ronnie Parr, Mrs. Jimmy Bancks and
Mrs. Sid Albright.
The cocktail connoisseur had a grand
week. There were so many “five to seven
and onwards” that counting the cards
alone caused almost a drunken jag.
Colonel and Mrs. Bruce Steer gave one at
Romano’s that still lingers on the palate.
Mrs. Steer’s frock was a harmony of black
velvet bodice and ankle-length white
taffeta skirt. And with a frock like that,
of course, gardenias were the right finish.
Mrs. Steer’s father, Otway Falkiner, the
Franc Falkiners and the Mac Falkiners
were among the many guests.
Possibly Lorraine Barry may in her
lifetime receive a prettier compliment,
but probably she never will, than that
paid her by Mrs. Bertie Kelly when she
judged her belle of St. Vincent’s Hospital
Nurses’ Easter dance. Mrs. Kelly said;
I awarded the prize for the most attrac-
tive frock over the best figure, above the
neatest shoes and under the prettiest face.
Mrs. Kelly herself was glittering in a
frock of pink fa?onne that swept into a
short train and was graceful with shoulder-
drapes. Attractive, too, was her coronet
of tiny pink rosebuds, behind each an up-
turned silver leaf. The dance attracted
more than 1000 to the Trocadero. Seven
first-year nurses made their bow to Lord
Mayor O’Dea and Mrs. O’Dea. President
of the ball committee Mrs. E. P. Bateman
and her husband entertained the official
guests.
A touch of the elegance of candle-lit
salons of the days of Louis XIV, XV and
XVI will be brought to Prince’s on the
night of May 23. The “Bal Poudre,”
which is to aid the Alliance Fran9aise, will
see the ladies of the French community
and their friends with hair powdered
and dressed in the Period. A prize for
the best-dressed head will be announced
at midnight. There will also be a tombola
(guessing competition to you) at 2s. a
go. And the prize for this is something
worth while: a dress by Pellier
made-to-fit. This will also be drawn
at midnight. Wife of France’s Consul-
General, Mrs. De la Croix, is a vice-
president. Mrs. Bertie Kelly is the presi-
dent of the committee.
Big ball of race-week was the one at
the Royal Sydney Golf Club. There were
no fewer than 37 hostesses for this, the
37 including Mrs. Winchcombe, whose
daughter Juliet was one of the night’s two
debs. Sally Bragg, of Aberdeen, was the
other girl who burst her chrysalis bonds
amid the flowers and bright lights. The
flowers and the frocks were really super.
This multiple-hostess idea is a grand one.
When a group of women who have prac-
tically the same circle of friends instead
of issuing cards for separate gaieties,
unite in giving a ball, time, the city’s
limited dancing space, money and the
boredom of meeting again and again, in
a restricted period, the same friends in,
possibly, the same frocks, are saved.


Year ’round living comfort
m
m
-J
m
m
mm
m
v *>
Insulate against weather extremes with
if if yiP
Cane-ite deflects cold as it deflects heat
\ inch of Cane-ite
provides better
insulation than 16
inches of concrete
or 8 inches of
brick.
r
Insulate and Decorate with
MM
WALLS and CEILINGS
Sold by Hardware Stores and Timber Merchants everywhere
4S&
Manufactured by
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
Building Materials Division
Missing Friend.
ESTATE of RICHARD LANGFORD
O’GRADT, late of Maitland, South Aus-
tralia, Farmer.—WlLL MICHAEL EVANS
O’GRADY, known as of Broken Hill, also
Melbourne (brother of the abovenamed de-
ceased, and beneficially named in his
will), or anyone knowing his present
whereabouts, communicate with ELDER’S
TRUSTEE AND EXECUTOR COMPANY,
LIMITED, of 37-3fi Currie Street, Adel-
aide?
To Help Solve Year Honey Worries
fds
r
A personal, confidential service
is available at the Rural Bank
to those financially embarrassed.
Personal loans from £lO upwards
are made at a moderate rate of
Interest with repayments spread
over a period of years. If you’re
troubled about money matters
and unexpected bills, come ia
and talk it over.
RURAL BANK
Head Offices Martin Place, Sydney
THE GARDEN PATH
By "Red Road"
Mr. Hollway, Liberal Premier
of Victoria, announced last
week that he would appoint a
royal commission to inquire into
the operations of the Communist
party in Victoria, into allegations
of rigging of union ballots by
Communists, and into other
matters connected with the party.
All entirely commendable and
heartening, and deserving the
utmost expedition in its carrying-
out ; but it must be remembered
that the Communist party is a
centralised body with head-
quarters in Sydney, and that in-
vestigations into State commit-
tees cannot get to the root of
Communist activities.
It should be easy enough to
prove some charges, but it will
be very difficult to link up State
branches with some main Com-
munist channels, and unless the
whole is dealt with the means
remains for the whole to grow
again. Many agencies and
associations specifically formed
and built up upon the order of
the Communist party central
organisation vehemently deny
any connection with the Com-
munist party, though the facts
when sifted to the bottom in-
dicate differently.
Dealing with the matter would
be very much easier if daily news-
papers had not become hysterical
over Russia’s “glories” during
the war. It would also be easier
if the Federal Labor party had
not played with Communism
and followed the Communist
line again and again and fre-
quently admitted Communists to
its ranks without proper inquiry.
Communists, ex - Communists
and fellow-travellers are now
established in almost every walk
of life including, despite the
Australian Labor party’s sudden
zeal for moderation and its dis-
covery that Communism is not
merely a “political philosophy,”
very high offices in the Labor
party.
It must indeed be hard for
some people intimately con-
nected with the Labor party to
become indignant about the
wickedness of Communism, hav-
ing regard to the pasts of some
of themselves and the ease with
which over a period as long as
30 years industrial stalwarts have
moved backwards and forwards
in and out of the Labor party,
and alternately supported and
attempted to smash the salient
features of Labor policy.
Garden’s Career
J. S. (“Jock”) Garden was one
excellent case in point. His
record in brief was as follows:
He was expelled from the
Labor party during the latter
part of World War I for joining
with the extremists.
In 1920-22 he acquired high
office in the Communist party
and yet was a member of the
A.A.T.U. Congress (1921) draft-
ing committee (of which Messrs.
Curtin, Scullin and Baddeley
and Willis were also members)
which drafted the socialisation
objective.
In 1923 he and Mr. Beasley
and others —all now high in the
Parliamentary Labor party —
having attempted to secure the
admission of Communists to the
A.L.P., he was again expelled
from the Labor party and led
the Communist party to the
State polls in 1925, securing the
highest Communist vote —300.
In December, 1926, he was
ostensibly expelled from the
Communist party because he
would not publicly make a de-
claration that he Was a Com-
munist.
Though under the A.L.P. rules
the earliest he could have come
back legally to the Labor party
was 1933, he was high up in
the party by 1930.
He was at that time a Labor
alderman of Sydney, Mr. Lang’s
chief organiser at the 1930 State
election, a member of the
socialisation executive of the
A.L.P., general secretary of the
N.S.W. Labor Council, con-
troller of the “Labor Weekly”
(official organ of the A.L.P.),
chairman of the Unemployed
Committeee officially recognised
by the State Government, chair-
man of the rules committee of
the 1930 A.L.P. Conference,
chairman of the A.L.P. com-
mittee formed to consider the
readmission of the A.W.U. In
1931 he was also, apart from
his continuing offices, chairman
of the agenda committee, the
rules committee, the appeals
committee.
And he was the official can-
didate of the N. S. Wales A.L.P.,
then separated from the Federal
A.L.P., under Mr. Beasley’s
leadership, for the Cook seat at
the Federal election in 1931.
The Communists assailed him
on all sides, describing him by
. such endearing terms as “putrid
rat” and “the most vicious
mountebank in Australia.” The
Lang-Beasley party accepted him
as one of themselves anfl again
endorsed him for Cook Federal
electorate, which he won in
1934. In the meantime he had
left the Socialisation Committee
which he had founded —the other
members including Mr. Donald
Grant and a Mr. E. A. Barker of
the Railway Union, who’ has
now become a Conciliation Com-
missioner, after being endorsed
by Labor for the Senate in 1940.
In Again—Out Again
In 1932-33 the N. S. Wales
Labor party reported that “an
investigation proved conclusively
that the socialisation units were
dominated by Communistic in-
fluence” ..... “ Regular secret
meetings of delegates” held at
the Trades Hall were “inspiring
resolutions to be engineered
through branches and preparing
voting-tickets.” By this pro-
cess the A.L.P. structure was
being forcibly bent into Com-
munist shape.
In 1936 Mr. Garden was ex-
pelled from the Labor party in a
quarrel over Station 2KY, and
immediately the Communist
party rallied to his support,
called special conferences at
which Mr. Garden spoke from
the same platform with Mr. R.
A. King, M.L.C., Mr. Heffron,
M.L.A., an ex-tutor of the Com-
munist party, who had also been
expelled, and others.
The State executive of the
Labor party dominated by
Messrs. Lang and Beasley—at
that time discovered that some
of the “disruptionists” were
prominent members of the Com-
munist party. For various rea-
sons it expelled 17 persons, in-
cluding four M.L.As., some of
the present N. S. Wales M-L.Cs.,
including Mr. W. E. Dickson,
M.L.C., and Mr. McAlpine, the
present Federal president of the
Australian Labor party.
Next year when “unity” had
been obtained with the Federal
A.L.P., Garden, Heffron, W. P.
Evans and others applied the
“united-front” technique, and
formed a provisional executive
which was in control of the N, S.
Wales Labor when war broke
out. Mr. Beasley’s executive
stated in its annual report,
1937-38;
On this “provisional executive” we
find H. L. Denford (foundation sec-
retary of the Communist party) sit-
ting side by side with Mr. J. S.
Garden, former general secretary of
the Communist party, Dr. Lloyd
Ross, advocate of the Communist
policy, and W. Macnamara, who,
members will remember, tried to
establish a dictatorship of the move-
ment through the medium of the
socialisation units. The secretary of
the United Front Conference was
R. A. King, who was selected im-
mediately afterwards as a delegate to
attend the celebrations in Moscow in
connection with the anniversary of
the Russian revolution.
The Federal party recognised
the provisional executive right
up to 1940, Lloyd Ross is now
one of Mr. Dedman’s right-hand
men. Macnamara was recently
elected to the N.S.W, Legislative
Council. Denford and King ap-
pear as A.L.P. trustees on the
most recently issued list.
And 1 In Again
At the Federal Conference,
1939, Mr. Arthur Calwell said;
“I would not vote for Garden.
Politically, I think he is an un-
desirable person to be in the
Federal Parliament.”
And in 1940 the Communist
party, then active with its anti-
recruiting and peace-with-Hitler
campaign, was lauding him to
the skies.
In 1942 Mr. Garden was
campaign-director to a Labor
Federal Minister, and was chosen
as the liaison-officer between the
Minister for Labor and Industry
(E. J. Ward) and the unions.
In 1946 he turned up as a
member of the socialisation com-
mittee of that year’s A.L.P. Con-
ference.
R. A. King’s History
It is easy to find a dozen
chameleonlike cases high up in
Mr. Chifley’s State Labor organ-
isation.
In December, 1923, R. A.
King was elected official trade-
union leader of the Communist
party of Australia and became
assistant-secretary to Garden in
the Trades and Labor Council.
In 1930-31 he was referred to
by the Communists as “formerly
a Communist,” but he was a
member of the Socialisation
Committee which was believed
by the official executive of the
Labor party to be communising
the party through the socialisa-
tion units.
In 1936 he was expelled for
association with the “bogus” and
allegedly Communist conference
which was organised to protect
Garden.
In 1938 he went to Moscow as
a May Day delegate.
In 1939-40 he was joint secre-
tary of the anti-conscription
committee, originated by the
Communists, but by 1942 he was
a solid “Labor” man, and by
1945 a trustee of the N. S. Wales
A.L.P. branch.
That year. he wrote an ap-
proving introduction of a
pamphlet on Labor “history”
written by E. W. Campbell, head
of the Marx House College, the
headquarters training college of
the Communist party.
In August, 1948, the A.L.P.
having ruled that the Australian-
Russian Society was a Com-
munist organisation—the matter
had been raised by a suburban
branch of the Labor party and
taken up by the A.L.P. with
some reluctance —the president
of the society, a Labor Minister,
Mr. Clive Evatt, vehemently re-
sisted any move to drag him out
of the presidency, and in course
of his statements asked: “Is R.
A. King, secretary of the
Labor Council, a Communist?”
He was indignant at the idea.
Mr. King’s name was listed as
a vice-president of the society.
Mr. King said, on August 26:
“I am not a member and never
have been a member. I under-
stand, however, that my name
appears on the society’s letter-
heads.”
On September 1 the Aus-
tralian-Russian Society an-
nounced that it had decided to
“relieve Messrs. Evatt, King and
E, J. Ward of their positions to
save them the embarrassment
under which they were suffering
through the decision of the
A.L.P. that they must resign.”
This was done, the society said,
“out of respect to these gentle-
men and gratitude for their ser-
vices to the society,”
On September 11 Messrs.
King, Evatt and Ward “advised
the A.L.P. executive that they
had severed all connection with
the society, in accordance with
the direction of the last A.L.P,
meeting.”
And in 1949 Mr. King is
leading the movement for the
formation of industrial groups
to throw the Communists out
of the unions. His denuncia-
tions of them as a dangerous
force are ferocious.
J. A. Ferguson
Now for a brief look at Mr.
J. A. Ferguson, In the “Red
Leader” in 1931 appears a list of
the Australian executive of the
Minority Movement (Red Inter-
national of Labor Unions),
Headquarters, Moscow, general
secretary, Solomon Losovsky.
The name of J. A- Ferguson
(A.R.U.) appears on this list.
The A.R.U. had applied for
affiliation in a letter addressed
to Losovsky in October, 1931.
In the “Red Leader” in Janu-
ary-February, 1933, beginning on
January 4 that year, appeared a
‘letter from the executive of
the Red International” in Mos-
cow, giving the Minority Move-
ment in Australia its orders to
the extent of nearly 12 columns
of type.
One of the orders was for a
“struggle against arbitration,”
and Moscow explained:
This campaign must be conducted
concretely, not through issuing ulti-
matums to workers such as “with us
or with the Arbitration Court,” but
in the most careful and painstaking
fashion we must try to convince
the... .workers on the basis of their
own experience, how the Australian
Court, as part of the State machinery,
is used to smash the workers’ condi-
tions at the behest of the capitalists.
Our slogan in this period should be
the united front for struggle against
wage-cuts, despite the Arbitration
Court.
A campaign against arbitration
was immediately opened by the
Minority Movement,
When delegates went to
Moscow the next year, however,
Losovsky told the delegation
that he was not satisfied and,
according to one of them. Com-
rade B. Scott, declared (“Red
Leader,” 26/9/’34), that “it was
absolutely necessary for the
workers to break away from the
Arbitration Court.”
On October 10, following, at
the A.C.T.U. Conference in
Melbourne, Comrade Orr, a
member of the Central Com-
mittee of the Communist party
and Australian National Secre-
tary of the Minority Movement,
moved: —■
That this congress repudiate com-
pulsory arbitration and calls on all
trade-unions to withdraw from the
Arbitration Court and adopt a policy
of direct negotiation with employers
for industrial agreements.
He said, according to the
“Red Leader,” that in obtaining
their ends, the unions must “use
all means of struggle right up
to the general strike. The
policy of class collaboration
exemplified in the acceptance of
arbitration had in other coun-
tries paved the way for the vic-
tory of Fascism.”
And Comrade Orr’s resolu-
tion was seconded by Comrade
J. A. Ferguson, now president
of the N. S. Wales branch of the
A.L.P., which is setting out to
“save” the country from Mos-
cow domination!


New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest Invention by Dr. D.
Barrere brings to rupture sufferers an
entirely new method of control, the
result of 40 years’ practice and im-
provements, proved completely suc-
cessful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the
hand when placed flat upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, hold the intestine
in its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BARBERS DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 2GA), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
Divorce Notice;
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO CLARENCE GEORGE OAKLEY late
of “Exchange” Hotel Newcastle in the
State of . New South Wales.-—TAKE
NOTICE that MALCOLM JOHN RAN-
DALL WOOD has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 4602 of 1948 on the grounds
of adultery by you with his wife DULCIE
CLARICE MAY WOOD If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance by
the 11th day ol July 1949 and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge
from MESSRS. BRAYE & MALCOM-
SON, Solicitors, 92 Pitt Street, Sydney.
—(n.s.) J. DOUGHAN, Acting Registrar
in Divorce.
'G#*
Your choice I* CINZANO
Vermouth, whether your taste is tor
*weel or dry. CINZANO Vermouth
gives fust that extra exhilarating tang
to the palate.
f
•ggs*
sss
a®
ss?*
THE SERVICE MAN
Shooting-up the
Royal Navy.
“Ek Dum”: The long-pro-
mised offensive of the Com-
munists in China has begun with
some untoward circumstances
which in other days would have
been very bad for the Com-
munists.
On Thursday last the armies
of Mao made their first steps to-
wards the taking of the
Nationalist capital of Nanking
by opening an indiscriminate fire
on everything in sight from the
northern side of the Yangtsz,
along which they were said to be
deployed, armed to the teeth and
itching to get at the spoils of
Shanghai and Southern China.
That great Power, the Nation-
alist Government, which had
been negotiating, but had refused
to agree that Chiang Kai-shek
and some of its leaders should be
tried as war criminals, fled finally,
or so it is reported, stepping over
the bodies presumably of the
University students of Nanking,
who were holding a lie-down
strike in the streets of Nanking
in the interests of peace. They
even fled to the safety of the
south, taking with them their
U.N.O. veto and, it is hoped, the
good wishes of Australian Com-
munists, who used to shriek—
per favor of some of those daily
newspapers which are now “ex-
posing” Communism —that if the
effete British Government would
only give the Chinese Nation-
alists a chance they would wipe
Japan off the map.
The recognition of U.N.O. and
the great Powers which consti-
tute it are the only visible asset
left to the Chinese Nationalist
Government, though it probably
has a lot of invisible ones, which
are not yet apparent. It may
find another Chungking, spend
some more years trading material
from the outside world to its
enemies, and, in its peculiar
fashion, and, with normal
Chinese effectiveness, gradually
smother Mao, who has yet to
face his real Chinese campaign-
ing, if there is anything left on
the Nationalist side to campaign
against him.
He has, after all, so far been
operating in what are regarded
in China as wide-open spaces
and is only now having a fore-
taste of what it is like to fight
an advance in really congested
areas.
The news which has been
arriving from the battlefield is
characteristic of Chinese war-
news. It is satisfying in scale
and versatile in its statements.
The front, of course, is 1000
miles long. Nothing less would
satisfy a correspondent within
sounds of distant firing, but
there is a regrettable difference
of opinion as to forces involved:
Sydney Evening Paper No. 1.
April 22, 1949.
While 1,500,000 Communist troops
were attacking Nanking yesterday and
30,000 were across the Yangtsz river
at Wuhu, the Chinese Government
fled.
Sydney Evening Paper No. 2.
April 22, 1949.
Communist forces were said to have
crossed the river 3000 strong in two
places—one near Wuhu.
But Nanking correspondents
were sure of one thing :
The “sound of fighting could
be clearly heard in Nanking, and
was growing closer all the time.”
By next morning the Com-
munist radio reported that
300,000 Reds had crossed the
Yangtsz on a 100-mile front in
the Wuhu area, which was pretty
good going. In another place
they were making the crossing
on rafts, junks, boards and
barrels, there not being enough
ice on the river for them to slide
over silently on sheets of gal-
vanised-iron, as the heroic Reds
did in the correspondents’
stories of the all-time miracle of
the Russian night-surprise on
Stalingrad from over the Volga.
In the end there proved to be
no resistance in Nanking. After
two days rioting and looting the
Communists entered it at dawn
on April 24, meeting scarcely any
resistance, and their hordes then
rolled on towards Shanghai,
which is virtually defenceless.
The lack of originality on the
part of Communist troops is
noticeable in the Sydney Press
in the last few days.
During the battle which pre-
ceded the crossings the Chinese
of both sides seem to have run
true to the form which resulted
many years ago in the first
squadron of the glorious Chinese
Air Force hovering over the
easily-recognisable heart of its
own city of Shanghai and bomb-
ing parts of it to smithereens.
In this case an unconventional
mark presented itself to the
medium artillery of both sides
of the river in the shape of
British naval vessels. These
seem to have been fired on on
the good old Chinese principle
that it is more sensible, when
you have a loaded gun in hand,
to aim at a target which you are
sure of hitting than at an invis-
ible one miles away on which
your ammunition may be
wasted.
This logical proposition ap-
pears to have occurred first to
the Communists on the north
bank, who opened on H.M.S.
Amethyst, a British sloop carry-
ing six four-inchers and a com-
plement of 192, which was doing
duty in the river to the east of
Nanking—she, was familiar in
New Guinea waters when she
formed part of the screen of
H.M.AC. Glory going to
Rabaul for the Japanese sur-
render.
The Communists pasted her
purposefully, knocking out her
steering, killing some members
of the crew and wounding
Lieutenant-Commander Skinner,
her commander. Presumably
because of her steering troubles
she went on a sandbank.
The sloop Consort, which
Amethyst was going to relieve,
coming down the river, passed
Amethyst, but turned back to
help her and was just as
promptly blasted. Later as she
went down river she was fired
on by both sides.
H.M.S, London, mother
cruiser of the H.M.A.S. Shrop-
shire class, and another sloop,
Black Swan, now came up, and
at some stage a Short Sunder-
land landed on the river and a
surgeon was rowed to Amethyst
under fire to relieve her
wounded, which were got off, ex-
cept the commander, who fol-
lowed R.N. tradition.
London, Consort and Black
Swan replied to fire before leav-
ing for Shanghai. On their way
down river the Nationalist forces
decided that they were too good
to leave to the Communists and
began throwing salvoes at them.
Meanwhile, Amethyst had
cleared the sandbank and moved
a little downstream, where she
anchored. She was still under
fire.
It seems that the firing took
place deliberately in circum-
stances under which the Com-
munists and Chinese National-
ists could not have failed to know
that they were firing on British
ships. The batteries of 4-inch and
naval 3.1 s which fired on the
Amethyst were oh the open river
beach within a mile of the ship.
It also seems that the British
ships were in the river with the
consent of the Chinese National-
ist Government, and that the
Communists began their firing
some hours before an ultimatum
to the Nationalist Government
had expired.
The immediate prospects of
Nanking are shown by the fact
that diplomatists, including Sir
Richard Stevenson, the British
Minister —he is inured to this
sort of thing, having had much
of his early training in the
Balkans —are to remain in the
city. Meantime, attempts are
being made to penetrate to
somebody with commonsense on
the Communist side to assure
passage for Amethyst or other
ships carrying supplies to the
British in the Nationalist capital.
Prime Ministers, having jetti-
soned the British Empire, are
discussing in London whether
also to jettison the word British
to please the Indians (and, per-
haps, some other people who are
better not named a few months
before an election). They seem
to be taking the Chinese affair
as lightly as usual.
Amethyst had two officers and
17 ratings killed, eight seriously
“There, Prendergast, your cockroach worries are over."
wounded and 15 slightly
wounded. Consort had nine
killed and three severely
wounded, London 15 killed, 13
severely wounded and nine
slightly wounded, and there was
also loss of life on Black Swan.
But it is becoming common-
place for cheeky Communists
to murder British subjects.
There is scarcely any breed of
Comrades which hasn’t done it
in the last few years with im-
punity and without stirring the
Socialists of London from their
lethargy, which is as great as
that shown by the Chifley Gov-
ernment when Australians on
peaceful duty were murdered
by barbarous Japanese collab-
orators in Malaya.
When this issue went to press
Mr. Churchill was taking steps
to stir up Mr. Attlee on the
matter.
It is true that the R.A.F. at
Hong Kong has been placed at
the disposal of the R.N. by the
local command ; but to April 25
there was no sign of reprisal
at Ministerial level; no com-
miseration for the relatives of
the dead or promises of a warm
time coming for the criminals
from any of the assorted states-
men now assembled among their
television sets and scrambled’-
telephones in London.
Possibly something will hap-
pen when H.M.S. Birmingham
arrives on the scene ; though she
is not quite the wonder-ship she
is credited with being by one of
the most famous of the corre-
spondents operating on the
Chinese front, who reported that
Birmingham has armor built to
withstand 18-inch shells!
She was on her way from
Hong Kong at the week-end.
Communism in the
Forces.
“Ek Dum”: The daily Press
this week has been deeply
shocked to learn that the Com-
munists are Red-anting the
Army —something it might have
said a lot more about a lot
earlier, at a more strategic time.
Other people have been con-
cerned about the Red-ants since
long before World War 11.
The “Australian Communist
Party Training Manual” (1928
edition) prescribed that “the
working-class must break up and
shatter the State bureaucratic
and military machinery as a pre-
liminary condition of the wor-
kers’ revolution.” The young
Communists were to be used to
Red-ant the defence forces.
Similar instructions have been
issued dozens of times since,
and numerous cases in which
the orders of the party have
been carried out are on record.
Mr. Archie Cameron, M.P.,
gave early warning of what was
happening, and exposed the fact
that in 1936 the party had been
caught in South Australia en-
deavoring to work its emis-
saries into the Army for the pur-
pose of gaining defence informa-
tion and, particularly, weapons.
He also put a curb on their
wireless activities while a Minis-
ter, but the only substantial re-
sult of his activity was that
some of the newspapers which
are now “shocked” about the
Communist fifth-column gave
every publicity to the Com-
munist party’s determined propa-
ganda to have him removed
from Military Intelligence and
Censorship. Half a dozen mem-
bers of Mr. Chifley’s Parliamen-
tary party assisted eagerly in this
drive.
And while Mr, Cameron was
under fire there was, holding
the position of Director of Or-
ganisation and Assistant Ad-
jutant-General on the H.Q. of
the Conimander-in-Chief of the
Allied Land Forces, an officer
who is now writing articles over
his own name regularly every
week for the Communist official
organ, “Tribune,” in the interests
of the Greek Communist rebels
and delivering “cottage lectures”
under the Communist wing.
When the Communist party in
Western Australia was raided in
1940 a full spy system was found
in operation there. Documents
were found in possession of the
secretary (who was jailed) which
showed that he had been col-
lecting military information—
his notes on units showed a
malicious hatred of the defence
forces and particularly of volun-
tary enlistment. And a fellow
who is now employed by the
C.5.1.R., then the editor of the
official Westralian Communist
journal, was discovered organis-
ing a plot to Red-ant the A.R.P.
with Communist officials, whom
he urged to enter the service as
wardens to obtain information
about civil defences which he
proposed to send overseas. He
was sentenced to two terms of
imprisonment and interned.
The Comintern, from which
the Australian C.P. was receiving
its orders, then had its H.Q. in
Vienna.
When it was revealed in Par-
liament by Mr. J, P. Abbott,
M.P-, the newspapers who are
now discovering what is afoot
gave Mr. Abbott short shrift.
None of them has ever shown
the slightest concern that such a
man should be employed in an
important department of the
C.S.I.R. —no more than Mr,
Chifley, who asked calmly last
session what this convicted Com-
rade could learn in a section
which deals with research into
vital materials used in fast-fighter
and light-bomber aircraft con-
struction.
The general atmosphere of the
Press suggested that it thought
that Mr. Abbott was being sen-
sational and somewhat indelicate
in bringing such matters forward.
Anzac Day was celebrated on
Monday iff all the capitals with
a fine roll-up, though not so fine
as might be expected from the
men of World War 11. Because
of the different form the second
war took, many of them have
not the sentiment bred by
the close contacts in trenches
under fire for weeks together
and of heavy casualties on a
scale suffered in the less re-
cent war. One of the saddest
things about the march now is
the increasing number of gaps
in the ranks of the old battalions.
The average age of World War I
marchers is now around the mid-
fifties, with an increasing number
in the sixties. But the old war-
riors make a grand showing.
* * * *
Mr. Acheson, Secretary of the
U.S. Department of State, places
the cost to the United States
of arms to be supplied to Atlan-
tic Pact countries in 1950 at
£ A 354,000,000, plus another
£ A 100,000,000 for countries
such as Greece and Turkey,
which are outside the pact. It
amounts to nearly as much as
Australia proposes to spend on
its gigantic and unprecedented
military, naval and air pro-
gramme, but which it won t
have a chance of spending at the
present rate of enlistments if it
can’t think of some new projects.
One plan that would bear
some expenditure out of its sur-
pluses is that to provide volun-
tary service battalions with bat-
talion centres and facilities for
training and community life
that would be some credit to
'the country.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
A RIDE ON A TIGER.
There was a young lady of Riga,
Who went for a ride on a tiger;
They came back from the ride
With the lady inside,
And a smile on the face of the
tiger.
The tiger in this case was a
Bear ; but the zoology is neither
here nor there. This was the
way of it.
Capitalistic N. Y. “Herald
Tribune” has published a series
of articles by lifelong champion
and worshipper of the “Soviet
Paradise” Anna Louise Strong,
on the harrowing theme of
“Why Did They Do It to Me ?”
describing in detail her fall from
grace, incarceration in a Mos-
cow jail and expulsion from the
“Paradise,” all of which appears
to have greatly surprised her.
On February 14 of this year,
it may be recalled, the lady
■\yas... But let her tell it in
her own words:
“I was aroused from bed in
Moscow, taken to jail by three
armed men, kept there five days
under frequent questioning and
then put over the Polish border
at a lonely river on a broken
bridge. Before me went —I
learned it next morning—the
charge that X was a notorious
spy.”
She had lived in Moscow off
and on for years, and, as the
blurb on her articles puts it,
“was on friendly terms with
many Soviet leaders.” She had
founded and had been associate-
editor of the Moscow “Daily
News,” dedicated to justifying
the ways of her gods to the
heathen at large, and she had,
of course, churned out numbers
of books to the same end, all
written in a tone of voice calcu-
lated to stir the envy of the
great Red Dean himself.
Indeed, when the armed oafs
aforesaid so surprisingly nabbed
her she was in high hopes of
securing a visa to Manchuria,
naturally with intent to report
and make another book on the
Communist side of things over
there. Everything, she relates,
“seemed rosy” as she dropped
off to sleep on the night of
February 14. And then:
“A bang on the door awoke
me and the loud word ‘Open!’
I thought some friend was
joking at my too-early sleep, for
it was barely 10. I threw on a
kimono and opened.
Three men in uniform strode
in. ‘Come with us. You are
arrested.’
‘Me?’ I cried, ‘Me?’
‘Quickly,’ they said.
‘What for?’ I gasped.
‘Come at once.’
Dazed with sleep and shock, I
indicated that I was undressed.
They bade me dress quickly, but
they did not leave the room. I
turned my back and dressed
shakily. ‘Take a couple of
changes of linen,’ they said. But
this means several days, I
thought, dismayed. What with
the shock and haste of tremb-
ling I forgot the changes of linen,
but I threw a box of vitamin
pills and three handkerchiefs
into my handbag and went.
Thank heaven I took, under my
fall coat, my comfortable
Chinese padded gown.”
These, she thought, must be
gangsters (apparently they have
them in “Paradise,” too). But,
“No. Only high Government
officials have such autos.”
And so to jail.
Well, they put her through the
hoop and, in due course, over
the Polish border:
“I beat across Poland finding
myself contamination to all
loved friends, seeing six con-
tracts for publishing my China
book crash in six countries, terri-
fied lest my illegal exchange of
$5 for Polish money with a
casual stranger on Saturday
night when no legal exchange
was open and I needed taxi and
food might land me in a Polish
jail for ‘blackmarketing.’ I
fought at dawn for an airplane
ticket, and was in terror again
when bad weather delayed me
a day, invalidating my Polish
transit visa. With all my jaunty
confidence in myself and in any-
thing smashed, I came to Paris,
hungry for home and rest.”
Fortunately for herself, the
American-born author had, for
all her 28 years’ lionising of the
Bear, retained her American
nationality. Her articles ex-
panded into a book would be a
certain best-seller, and make a
fortune for her there in her
homeland. The blurb to the
articles states that she was “still
so loyal”—to Communism and
the Soviet system —that she was
handing over part of the pre-
sent cash from the capitalistic
coffers to the defence of the 11
—Detroit (U.S.A.) “Free Press.”
THE GREAT EARTHQUAKE.
Corns now on trial in New York
on charges of conspiring to paint
Uncle Sam red, or words to that
effect.
.« That offer, of course, was
turned down by the Corns on
trial —as it would have to be by
Corns anywhere, taking the cue
from where, in all things, they
place their first loyalty and
sworn obedience. As a further
choice instance of this, the Com-
munist - run N. Y. “Daily
Worker” turned on the lady, to
this effect: “The New China
News agency of the Chinese
Communist-led Government re-
fers to Anna Louise Strong in
the following manner: ‘This
anti-Soviet spy, under the dis-
guise of a progressive, even suc-
ceeded in penetrating our liber-
ated areas some time ago.’ ” On
which N. Y. “World-Telegram”
makes ah the comment neces-
sary: “Yes, and Miss Strong
was a regular contributor to the
‘Daily Worker,’ which was so
pleased with her articles on
Communist China that it recom-
mended her for a Pulitzer Prize.”
From some of her own re-
marks it seems that Miss Strong
puts the Moscow jailing and the
rest down to the blundering of
some minor official or officials
—overlooking, apparently, that
there might be something a little
short of perfection in a “Para-
dise” wherein minor officials
have any such power.
Nor is that the only crooked
feature of the “Paradise” that
Miss Strong, in her fanatical (or
maybe only feminine) zeal, is pre-
pared to overlook. The most in-
structive element in her articles
is their unconscious revelations.
The “Herald Tribune,” evidently
paying a thumping price for the
articles —Miss Strong’s offer of
part of the payment for the de-
fence of the U.S. Corns was
$lOO0 —dealt with some of the
more curious unconscious bits in
an editorial. The paper’s com-
ment can be taken up where
Miss Strong finds herself in the
Moscow jail:
“ ‘How,’ was her first gasping
thought, ‘shall I ever get out of
here?’ She was charged with no
crime; racking her brains she
could think of no indiscretion,
even, which might have been so
regarded. Why, then, the
frightened doubt? .She received
a routine medical examination;
in panic she wondered if the doc-
tor was ‘deciding how much I
could stand,’ Miss Strong had
been intimately familiar with
Soviet life and methods over
many years ; what gave her that
idea? The examination was
kindly; her clothing was re-
turned ; ‘they were not going to
be brutes,’ she thought with re-
lief, ‘not yet, anyway.’ What
suggested that ‘not yet’? Later
the warden asked after her
health and she was staggered;
‘my health —for hard labor in
the woods or what?’ What made
Miss Strong, ardent pro-Com-
munist and a long-time student
of Russia, see hard labor in the
woods behind that innocent
question?”
The answer to all the paper’s
questions would seem to be, in
the unhappy lady’s case, a
matter of clinging desperately
to an illusion in spite of knowl-
edge to the contrary —which
must apply to many others, too,
who are mounted on the Tiger-
bear.
Socialised Medicine.
Statement by the American
Medical Association, shaping up
to fight hard —with a $3,500,000-
fund for a start —attempts to
give the U.S. the “benefits” of
socialised medicine, on the
British, or Australian, or any
other such pattern:
“The great accomplishments
of American medicine are the
result of development by a free
profession working under a free
system unhampered by Govern-
ment control. The experience
of all countries where Govern-
ment has seized control of
medical care has been progres-
sive deterioration of the stand-
ards of that care to the serious
detriment of the sick and
needy.”
On the “progressive deteriora-
tion” as he claimed to have re-
cently observed it in Britain, a
Cleveland (U.S.) “Plain Dealer”
writer, Philip W. Porter, lately
asserted: “You don’t have to
listen to the perfectly legitimate
objections of doctors and den-
tists [to State medicine] ; all
you have to do is to see the way
it is working out in Great
Britain.
“I lived over there and saw it
function. Thank the Lord I
didn’t have to depend on it, for
I could go to competent Army
doctors. But I had plenty of
friends who were forced to de-
pend on it, for they had deduc-
tions for it taken out of their
slim pay and couldn’t afford to
hire Harley-street specialists.
“If what they got under
socialised medicine was medical
care and competent treatment of
illness and disease, then I’m a
Tanganyikan rhinoceros. The
panel doctor’s office was an
assembly-line of 50 patients
crowded into the time and space
it should have taken him to
handle 10....
“And the poor patient, if dis-
satisfied, couldn’t change doctors
once he had signed up without
the permission of the doctor he
didn’t like or without three
months for a Government board
to make up its mind. Mean-
while, he could make a choice
between paying a competent
specialist a stiff fee or dying
slowly,”
Porter had even more savage
things to say, but these may
have referred to isolated cases
he had observed. At all events,
on his general report N. Y.
“Daily News” commented:
“Would some leader in the fight
for State medicine here kindly
tell us all what assurances there
are, if any, that Uncle Sam
doctor would be any less of a
quack and charlatan than the
above picture paints Dr. John
Bull as now being?”
The “News” was referring to
“the Truman Administration’s
crusade for State medicine,
politely called compulsory health
insurance,” which is what the
American Medical Association
is strongly campaigning against,
stigmatising it as “possessing the
evils inherent in any politically-
controlled system.”
In other U.S. Press comments
one of the “evils” noted is “the
habit always associated with
compulsory health schemes of
minimising or ignoring the pos-
sible cost”:
“Effort has persistently been
made in the past 10 years to sell
the American public something
calling for a huge expense with-
out giving an accurate forecast
of the ultimate cost.”
That particular point applies
directly both to Britain and
Australia; and in Britain —as
distinct from Australia, yet —
they already know plenty about
it. The extent of sheer guess-
work (if that is the right word)
in the original estimates in
Britain has been shown by some
of the official figures so far given
out —among these, that the
running-costs are now put at
some £265,000,000 for the first
nine months, against the original
estimate of about £198,000,000.
Nor is it all so “free,” either.
London “Times,” editorially
examining some of the figures,
has stated that “The public are
paying for their first nine months
of ‘free’ medical care in several
different ways.” There are still
the personal fees and other like
payments, with most of the bal-
ance, of course, falling on taxa-
tion, in which the increase on the
rosy forecasts has been no less
than £58,000,000 (or nearly 40
per cent.) higher than the crystal-
gazers reckoned.
The increases over the forecast
costs have been in practically
every section. “Why,” one
“Times” editorial questioned,
“have the running costs of the
hospitals, originally put at
£115,000,000 for nine months,
now been raised to £136,000,000?
The new figure represents a gross
annual cost of about £180,000,000
compared with the estimate of
about £100,000,000 made only
five years ago. Have necessary
costs in the hospitals really risen
as much as this? Is it not pos-
sible that costs are being in-
flated in various ways?”
By way of part-explanation,
it suggested; “The new hospital
boards and committees, rela-
tively inexperienced bodies,
have been working under in-
terim financial arrangements.
They have none of the incentives
to economic management which
apply to bodies elected by the
ratepayers or to agencies work-
ing on limited funds derived
from voluntary payments.
Though they are financially con-
trolled by the health depart-
ments, the departments them-
selves are dfirectly responsible
for the success and prestige of
the new hospital service; and
they have no clear means of
budgetary control for distin-
guishing between wasteful and
efficient expenditure.”
The hospitals, of course, are
only one item of it. Other
typical increases: Dental ser-
vices, £21,800,000 for the nine
months, instead of the £8,150,000
originally budgeted; ophthalmic
service £14,970,000, instead of
£2,330,000; general-practitioners’
drug bill, £17,715,000, instead
of £12,700,000.
So it adds up, with such sig-
nificant additions as local-
authority services costing two-
and-a-half times as much as was
expected; and, as well, “The
new ambulances are known to
have proved extremely costly.”
So far, so bad. There is still
whatever may be ahead, and the
“Times’s” summing-up on this
could be of exceptional value in
Australia, if, of course, it were
at all likely to be heeded:
“The prospective cost of the
health service is more disturb-
ing than its current cost. At
present the service is costing
about £330,000,000 in a full
year. If it grows no more ex-
pensive this implies a future
annual charge on taxes of about
£285,000,000. While economies
may eventually be effected in the
bills for drugs and the care of
eyes and teeth, they may well be
more than offset by increases
under other headings. The
earnings of specialists and
general practitioners are likely
to be raised in the near future,
and more will have to be given
to the much less well-paid army
of nurses and other auxiliaries.
Expansion of the service has
hardly begun. When it does,
there will be heavy bills for new
hospital buildings, maternity
homes, health centres and clinics
as well as for additional doctors,
nurses, midwives, health visitors,
home nurses, and others.
“In matters of medical care
normal economic rules do not
apply. Supply creates demand,
and the public appetite for
medical care is potentially in-
satiable, especially in a com-
munity with a steadily growing
number of elderly people. The
coming of a ‘free’ health service
makes it all the more important
to consider what proportion of
its resources the nation can
most profitably set aside for
medical care in present circum-
stances. This relatively new
problem has never received the
attention it deserves. Medical
economics is, so far, an unknown
science in Britain. Research
into the fundamentals of policy
is needed.”
As it only too evidently is
needed in Australia, where that
“science” is certainly no better
known. Not that it’s at all
likely there will be any such re-
search. It would take time —
and they’re in a hurry.
The Battling Greeks.
A recent first-hand report
from Athens by “Christian
Science Monitor” correspondent
Joseph s G. Harrison would
suggest that the familiar quota-
tion will have to be altered: it
should again be “The Glory that
is Greece ”
“The intent of this story,”
writes Harrison, “is not to plead
for the Greeks, or to evaluate
the policies that affect them,” but
simply “to record a bit of the
heroism and the suffering, the
pathos and the challenge the
sacrifice which one of the
smallest, most indigent, and most
inoffensive countries in Europe
is making for the sake of demo-
cracy, for the cause of freedom
and decency, and, incidentally,
for the safety of all independent
peoples.”
By now, the 7,500,000 people
of Greece “have been embattled,
with the exception of the short
truce in 1945-46, for eight-and-
a-half years.” And throughout,
“First against the cowardly
attack of Mussolini’s army, then
against the pitilessly systematic
occupation of the Germans, and


now against the cynically brutal
aggression of Russian-inspired
terrorists, the Greek people have
fought with tenacious bravery.
“It is a warfare which is still
going on, on half a hundred
snow-swept slopes over most of
Greece as this story is read.
“It has been said with under-
standing that a single word from
a single man, Soviet Prime
Minister Joseph Stalin, would be
enough to stop the Greek civil
war overnight. It is a war which
not more than 5 per cent, of the
Greek people wish. It is kept
going exclusively by the aid
furnished the terrorists by
Greece’s three northern Com-,
munist neighbors, Albania,
Yugoslavia and Bulgaria.
“It is_a war which has assumed
more and more the purpose of
‘punishing’ the Greek people for
refusing to bow their knees be-
fore the Kremlin.
“It is a. war in which the Soviet
Union does not have the slightest
legitimate interest by any hereto-
fore accepted standards of inter-
national law,
“It is war in which Moscow is
using a handful of misguided
fanatics, who believe it is their
duty to make Greece Communist
whether the Greek people wish it
or not, to embarrass the demo-
cratic world even though this
costs the deepest agony of
7,500,000 innocent and ordinary
men, women and children.
“So from this, and the causes
before it, Greece still has its mili-
tary bulletins and its casualty-
lists. Nearly four years after
VE-Day long lines of Greek
soldiers head for battle. The
Greek nation sees destruction of
its peaceful towns and farm-
steads, its hordes of refugees, its
war-time waste of national
wealtn and all the thousand and
one other sorrows and incon-
veniences of war. And there is
no reliable indication when all
this will end.
“But the average Greek knows
that he is fighting against an
enemy whose victory would de-
stroy Greek freedom, warp the
Greek people, and stifle Greek
affairs as surely as would have a
Persian victory in the fifth cen-
tury B.C. or a permanent Nazi
victory less than a decade ago.”
For the fact that there is now
no prospect of the Communists
winning, the correspondent
places the credit where it rightly
belongs. The Truman Doctrine
aid has been enough to ward off
defeat and even to strengthen,
particularly in the last two
months, the position of the
Greek Army. Even so, it ffas
not been enough to win the war
or to give the Greek Army a
sufficiently great superiority to
make victory reasonably certain
“even within the limits of 1949.”
Similarly, on the economic
— St. Louis (U.S.A.) “Post-Dispatch.”
JOURNEY’S END.
front, American help has “pre-
vented Greece from falling into
not merely chaos but actual star-
vation for hundreds of thousands
of persons....
“Due to the special character
of the warfare in Greece—which
is distinguished by the guerrillas’
concentration upon wrecking the
country’s economy rather than
upon winning and holding any
territory—the economic side of
the picture is fully as important
as is the military.
“When any part of the Greek
economy collapses or any new
flood of refugees is set loose or
any important shortage develops,
American aid must inlmediately
be rushed to provide new props,
feed new mouths, or fill the
empty bins lest it affect the
morale of the Army or lessen
its supplies. That aid has made
the difference. Yet more seems
needed.
“That is Greece today,”
Harrison concludes. “And if
anywhere in the world the forces
of democracy have a clear duty
and a clear obligation, it is in
Greece. The elimination of de-
mocracy and freedom in this
couptry would be not only a
grave danger to the rest of the
world, it also would be an act
of shameful treachery.”
Uncle Sam and the
Dragon.
In a survey to “cut through
the confusion and propaganda”
on China, “U.S. News and World
Report” has frankly com-
mented :
“The Communists can have
the whole country now, if they
want it,
“They can slow down, speed
up, fight on or have peace—call
the turn-about as they choose.
The Nationalists are through, a
badly licked crowd. The old
U.S. aims for China--making
450,000,000 Chinese a bulwark
against Russia in the Far East
—are in ruins, to remain so
for years to come. The Soviet
policy, from Moscow’s point of
view, is doing fine.
“Communist ' China now
stretches roughly 1500 miles
from north to south, from
Soviet Russia down to the valley
of tffe Yangtze River; extends
westward from the coast any-
where from 200 to 800 miles.
It adds up to about a fourth of
China with these assets: Forty
per cent, of the population or
about 180,000,000 Chinese;
many of China’s biggest, most
historic cities; .nearly all of the
wheat land, plus a big chunk of
China’s ‘rice-bowl’; two-thirds
of the railway trackage and
more than half the improved
highways ; most of China’s coal,
iron ore, heavy industry and
many textile mills. That leaves
to the Nationalists overcrowded,
underfed South China, the
deserts and mountains of the
interior and such lesser resources
as tea, tung-oil, tungsten and
tin.
“Those resources can’t begin
to feed the people, can’t turn
the wheels of industry, keep
trade going, finance imports or
pay for an army. The Gov-
ernment is no longer able to
govern, enforce laws or defend
itself. Armies are splitting up,
slipping away from Nationalist
control and reverting to status
as ‘personal’ armies of in-
dividual generals, as in the days
of warlords. The rich are flee-
ing for their lives to snug havens
like Hong Kong. The people
generally are apathetic, groggy
from 12 straight years of war,
too hopeless to be scared of
Communism, eager only for
peace at any price.”
With things in that shape,
it considers that only the
heavy job of running China
without the necessary trained
— N. Y. “World-Telegram.”
NEW LIGHT OF ASIA.
staff and extensive administra-
tive set-up, plus some disagree-
ments between Chinese Com-
munists and Moscow, caused the
Reds to hesitate from sweeping
south to finish the job.
Meanwhile Communist rule
in north China is held likely to
be comparatively mild, with
little or no fighting or rough
stuff. “Party orders to con-
querors are to be polite, firm
but gentle. Food is to be more
plentiful for city dwellers, travel
can be resumed as fast as the
railroads can be repaired and
peasants are to feel compara-
tively uplifted, encouraged by
Communist land reforms and by
the chance to sell all they can
raise to hungry people in towns.
Industrial workers may expect
to be wooed and given a new
sense of importance, while
businessmen, to their surprise,
won’t be beheaded at sunrise—
in fact, they are likely to be
given a good deal of freedom
in the early months of Com-
munist rule. Foreigners may
also be surprised to find them-
selves tolerated and allowed to
go on doing business, provided
they don’t express themselves
too freely.”
On . those two points—the
hesitation to advance south and
the kid-glove touch in the
north —London “Times,” con-
trary to several more optimistic
commentators, sees no indica-
tions of anything amiss with
long-range Soviet policy. It
sees rather a confirmation of the
pattern followed in Poland, Bul-
garia and Hungary —a pattern
iof gradual establishment as
against the original, sudden
bloody revolution in Russia.
“The Bolshevists established at
once an iron dictatorship,
abolished all parties except their
own, and nationalised all pro-
perty in a single sweep. Even in
their own estimation they went
too quickly. Their speed proved
costly, harsh and inefficient.
“Where the Bolshevists had
to do everything at once or risk
defeat,” the “Times” adds, “the
‘peoples’ democracies’, installed
by the Red Army and guaranteed
against intervention by Soviet
strength, have been able to take
things more easily and by
stages This notion of ‘phased
revolution’ emerges just as
clearly in China.”
Whatever the pattern, the old
U.S. foreign policy in China re-
mains “in ruins” and no end of
advice about a new policy is be-
ing offered by the U.S. Press.
“U.S. News and World Report”
suggests that, in the new Sino-
American relationship, military
aid of course can be considered
as finished and not likely to be
revived. Economic aid, how-
ever, is another matter:
“Communists may need help
in feeding Shanghai, and later
Canton. U.S. relief in that
case may seem to Washington
to have some propaganda value
in China in keeping the Chinese
friendly. Trade between China
and Japan is important if Japan
is to revive. Thus the ultimate
U.S. recognition of Communist
China is to be expected.”
But as to that, N. Y. “World-
Telegram” points out some
difficulties: “If we recognise
a Communist or Communist-
coalition Government in China,
we cannot oppose turning over
China’s place on the Security
Council to the Communists.
Then there is the matter of
Japanese reparations. China
was to have received a substan-
tial part of these reparations.
Presumably, if we recognise a
Communist Government, pay-
ments and deliveries to China
would be made to the Com-
munists. Japan has come to be
regarded as a bastion against
Communism in Asia. Are we
going to be a party to trans-
ferring Japan’s arsenals and war-
supporting industries to Com-
munist China?”
A correspondent of N. Y.
“Times” takes the more opti-
mistic view that U.S. policy at
the moment is one of “watchful
waiting” with the ultimate objec-
tives of (1) a truly independent
China free from foreign control,
(2) a China that, specifically, is
not the instrument of another
Power’s policy—in this case the
U.S.S.R., and (3) a friendly
China.
That view sees China in,
broadly, three sections —in the
very north, under direct Soviet
control, “a vast area extending
from Turkestan across Mon-
golia and Manchuria to the
Pacific provinces of the
U.S.S.R.” ; in the middle, under
Mao Tze-tung, “a great
chunk of southern Manchuria
and northern China engulfed by
the Chinese Communist
armies” ; and in the south “that
confused area below the Yang-
tze, which is partly under the
control of a weak successor Gov-
ernment to President Chiang and
partly under the control of pro-
vincial authorities and partly in
chaos.”
U.S. policy will depend largely
on what happens to those three
belts —whether they join or draw
further apart—and on the possi-
bility that China, as it has always
done, will swallow the invaders:
“Quite plainly the policymakers
of the U.S. are counting upon
the historic forces of Chinese
nationalism to assert themselves
as strongly under a Mao Tze-
tung Government vis-a-vis the
U.S.S.R. as they did under a
Chiang Kai-shek Government
vis-a-vis the U.S.A.”
“It is significant,” the writer
adds, “that Mao’s victories have
not received nearly the amount
of jubilant attention in the
Soviet Press that might have
been expected. It is further
significant that Mao is known to
be irritated by blatant Soviet
expansion at the expense of
Chinese Communism —although
how deep this throb of irrita-
tion runs cannot yet be gauged.”
On the chances of Chinese
nationalism asserting itself in
the long run, and of Mao turning
ing out to be Chinese first and
Communist afterwards, Wash-
ington “Post” records that “for
a matter of 40 centuries prior
to the T’aip’ing rising China
had absorbed everything and
everybody that came in contact
with China. From the Nestorians
and the Jews to the Great Khans
and the eighteenth-century Rus-
sians—intruders disappeared into
the maw of China.”
Dragnet Digest.
Saving the Children. —Like the
League of Nations in the same fields,
U.N.O. has achievements to its credit
away from the main problems, one
of the best of them the feeding and
medical treatment of children in the
war-torn countries. But, states
Maurice Pate, director of this great
work, the fund for the purpose is
$28,000,000 short of what’s required
to carry through the minimum food,
clothing and medical programmes
aimed at, and the medical assistance
must be continued for at least two
more years, trying to cope with the
ravages of t.b. and other diseases.
In the fight to save the half-starved
youngsters from t.b. 9,000,000 child-
ren have been examined and 4,500,000
of them vaccinated against the
disease. However, more than ten
times that total of children remain
to be examined.
* * * *
The Price of Government. —London
“Economist” in this brief extract is
referring, of course, to Britain’s situa-
tion and prospect, but the comment
holds good for anywhere: “The
long continuance of taxation of any-
thing like 40 per cent, of the national
income will ruin the country. It will
not do so spectacularly in any one
year or the next —there might be more
hope if it would Unless the price
of government is reduced, the British
economy will gradually strangle itself.
But there is no prospect at present
visible of any substantial reduction m
the price of government.”
* * * *
Oil to Burn ! —Because of sheer
abundance of oil stocks now on hand,
the world oil industry (states “U.S.
News and World Report”) is slow-
ing down on production: largely an
outcome of the “production drive”
last year having shown “phenomenal
results.” In that “drive” the “world’s
oilwells delivered 12 per cent, more
than in 1947; 71 per cent, more
than in 1938,” with the biggest in-
creases in the Middle East. The
quoted report declares that Canada
has had exceptional success: “Alberta
is the hottest spot on the world oil-
map today.” Canada’s current out-
put is rated double that of 1947;
and, now importing nine-tenths of
the oil it uses, at a cost of some
$300,000,000 a year, Canada will
“drastically reduce” those imports
and may wipe them altogether.
* * * *
Boycotting Czech Goods. —Earlier
this year the Czech Government held
a trade fair in New York which pro-
duced much more business in orders
for Czech exports than had been
hoped for. A recent comment by a
correspondent of N. Y. “Herald
Tribune” indicates how the “cold-
war” tension has since mounted:
“During the last weeks radical
changes have been taking place. The
situation can best be compared with
the reaction of the United States
consumers which existed between
1933 and 1941 in the U.S. towards
the Hitler regime, namely, the boy-
cotting of German exports. Today
many United States importers are
afraid to handle Czechoslovak mer-
chandise because the people of our
country dislike buying goods from
countries under Communist dictator-
ship.”
* * * *
Ivan’s Good Old Days. U.S.
authority on things Russian, William
Henry Chamberlin, makes a com-
parison or two: “One could prove
with a thousand incontestable factual
illustrations that the Czarist regime,
oppressive by Western standards, was
infinitely milder than Stalin’s dic-
tatorship. It killed fewer people, it
jailed fewer people, it enslaved
fewer people and it treated political
prisoners with considerably more
humanity. The Soviet record today
is clear except to the wilfully blind.
Some of the most ruthless acts and
policies of the regime can be docu-
mented from decrees published in
official newspapers. There is a moun-
tain of supplementary evidence from
the unprecedented number of people
who have fled, often at the risk of
their lives, from the Soviet Union
and its satellite countries in Eastern
Europe. That all these people, many
of whom are disillusioned ex-Com-
munists and ex-Socialists, are engaged
in a gigantic conspiracy of lying is
scarcely a rational or credible sug-
gestion,”


TWENTY4ELEPHANTS
BY ETHEL ANDERSON
ONCE upon a time, on the twenty-
fifth day of the month Aban, the
eighth month of the Persian year,
when the sun still continued in
Scorpio, it happened by some divine mis-
chance that the Angel Usrosh presided
over the destinies of that day out of
turn; a fact that the Soothsayers all
advanced as the reason for the calamities
about to be related.
Unaware of the fatal influence on their
lucky stars, the ladies of Sir David
Ochterloney’s family went out at six
o’clock to eat the air, as they habitually
did at that hour, being dealt by over-
excited household officers, like so many
hands of cards, into the howdahs of
twenty-four elephants.
Sir David’s country house, near Mur-
riam, in the Kingdom of Oude, rose out
of the waving fields that surrounded it
as white and lonely as a sailing-ship in
some uncharted ocean. Since its lime-
washed outer walls were tall enough to
hide the windows of its single upper
story, since its roof (where they spent
part of their time) was screened by a
parapet, its fair occupants, day in, day
out, could see nothing but blue sky or
black rain-clouds, sun, moon or stars,
and, nearer, the pool creamed over with
green scum in which they were meant
to bathe, but into which none of them
had the courage to venture; their evening
journey, therefore, was their one distrac-
tion.
As they lurched and swayed along the
highway, arched from one horizon to
the other by an arcade of banyans, peep-
ing out of their howdahs they could see,
between the cathedral-like splendors of
the vast trees, mud villages heaped like
brown-paper parcels above the corn; a
marriage procession, the bride hidden in
a palki, the groom agog on a white
horse; a child driving a buffalo; ryots
crossing a ford ; a flight of peacocks; a
badmarsh —an outlaw —on a country-
bred stallion ; a woman leading a camel;
and all were a cause of excitement and
speculation.
It was a brilliant affair, this evening
in the month Aban, when, to the certain
knowledge of every astrologer in the
Kingdom of Oude, the Angel Usrosh
presided in place of the Angel Ird, who
should have been on duty.
The air was so lucid that the domes,
cupolas and minarets of Lucknow city,
viewed across many parasangs of corn,
sugar-cane or gram, and even the square
towers of Dilkusha Bagh—the “Dear-
heart” Palace —quite twenty miles to the
east, were clearly etched against the
horizon.
The shining ribbon that was the Gumti
River, as vivid as looking-glass, turned
and twisted through the reaches of the
unending plain, chequered as it was with
every shade of green in its
nearer acres, and with every
tint of blue and lavender in
its remoter edges; ridges,
these, which did not seem to
end, but appeared to roll up-
wards and return to the be-
holder disguised as turquoise
mists flecked with apricot.
After heavy rain the air was cool. It
was fragrant with the scent of many
flowering trees.
EVEN as early as five o’clock. the
elephant lines had buzzed with
activity. Between the sunset clouds and
the green wheat grey forms, lighter than
the shadows of the mango-tope in which
they had been picketed during the heat
of noon, emerged to stand knee-deep in
flowering mustard while their keepers
laced and buckled them into their elabo-
rate trappings.
In addition to the mahouts who
governed them, each elephant had four
or five personal attendants, an innumer-
able retinue of lesser fry—water-carriers,
sweepers, grass-cutters, leaf-gatherers and
the like —and many skilled tailors and
embroiderers, who made and cared for
their harness and the rich furniture of
their howdahs. To look across the
yellow fields from the house while these
men took the padded saddles and saddle-
cloths, the fringed headpieces, the gilded,
curtained and cushioned howdahs, from
the boxes in which they were stored, and,
swarming over them like ants, efficiently
equipped the placid and enormous
beasts, was to watch an army at work.
The names of the elephants were duly
tabled and their expenses paid monthly
by Sir David; Murad, the head mahout,
who had come to Sir David from the
Jam of Ramnaggar with excellent refer-
ences, being the accountant for such bills,
which far exceeded the costs of house-
keeping.
The nicknames of these valuable and
necessary animals usually hinted at some
quality in their characters or some detail
in their pedigrees. “Grass Growing,
Under Foot” and “Tardy Arrival” were
slow, even for elephants, though they
could move quickly on occasion. “Peep-
ing Lotus Bud” and “So
Sorry Cannot Wait” were
young females. The immense
tusker “Impossible Splen-
dors,” the adult male, “Prince
Pleasant Green Shoot,” and
a brute of uncertain temper
cajoled by the appellation
“August Official Thinker” were Cam-
bodian elephants and had been imported
from Siam. Their mahouts were
Siamese. There were two Persians in
the lines, servants of the young ele-
phant “Flap-ears,” which, in the Bactrian
vernacular, signifies “Poet” (he was a
dreamy beast), but for the most part the
keepers of the elephants were Moham-
medans.
Many- of Sir David’s upper servants
were Hindus, and, since the rival reli-
gions bred quarrels, Sir David, who
cared nothing for the cause of such dis-
putes, found it simplest to give a favor-
able judgment to Hindus and Moham-
medans alternately ; the bickering that
smouldered endemically in the stables
would always flare up into a final out-
burst in his office.
ON this ill-omened day in the month
Aban (the angel Usrosh presiding
out of turn) there was more than the cus-
tomary bustle when—as listed by Murad
—the twenty-four elephants shuffled
round to the women’s apartments and
waited patiently by the discreet side-door
that gave access to them, while each
howdah was packed with its full com-
plement of ladies and children.
The tally of departures, afterwards
scrutinised so anxiously by Sir David
and verified on oath by scores of wit-
nesses, was meticulously kept by Usbeg
(a Persian who had been highly recom-
mended by Shah Shuja), the keeper of
the High Seraglio. This was not a title
Sir David cared to hear used, he himself
merely saying “ma hoose” or referring
to its inmates as “the leddies” or less
frequently as “ma wee lassies.”
Many of them were not of his own
choosing but gifts from friends or even
business acquaintances. The Rajah of
Bundlekhand, for instance, had sent him,
on his birthday, an elephant carrying six
hill-gipsies; girls who wore only grass
skirts aijd black stoles, but who were
so unapproachable that they
would have no truck with
other members of the harem,
and when Sir David had
looked in on them one after-
noon for a friendly word
they had received him stand-
ing back to back, each one
armed with an ugly steel
weapon resembling a billhook. They
were pretty creatures all the same.
Another old friend, the Arkhand of
Swat, had given Sir David, one Christ-
mas, sixteen dancing-girls from Delhi: a
handsome present, this, for such Nautch
girls were then regarded (as they still
are) as the most nimble of ballerinas.
Several fellow Nabobs, on dying, and not
knowing what else to do with them, had
dispatched to him, with pathetic letters
begging their acceptance, their whole
collection of wives, children and concu-
bines. Victorious princes, passing his
door, would sometimes leave Sir David
as many as thirty unwanted captives.
Frequently some Rajah of his acquaint-
ance, on going through a process that
might almost be described as “stock-
taking,” would send the Scottish Nabob
the oldest and ugliest of his discards;
for Sir David was known to be the kindest
and most generous of men,, and he
would invariably grant a safe and luxuri-
ous asylum to all such poor castaways.
Of course he had his favorites.
It was an unwritten law of his harem,
as of many others, that when the High
Seraglio went out to eat the air the
Reigning Favorite should travel on the
leading elephant. This was always the
most splendidly caparisoned. Who would
stand in the road to watch the passage of
more than the first few of a string of
twenty-four elephants?
ON this inauspicious day Murad him-
self drove the leading beast, “Im-
possible Splendors.” His tusks were
sawn off short and capped with gilt fili-
gree work, gold bands studded with rubies
being set in them at intervals —like rings.
His ears were pierced on their upper
edges and long brush-like aigrettes were
suspended from them. He had a collar
of precious stones. Across his vast fore-
head was looped a diadem
fringed with pearls. Gold
disks linked by ivory medal-
lions, much carved, were
spaced along the red morocco
bands of his harness. His
saddle was of scarlet leather.
His saddlecloth was of pink
brocade. As for his howdah! Who shall
describe its glories? Its curtains were
sewn with peacocks’ feathers and look-
ing-glass slabs, its poles were of beaten
gold banded with agate, its cushions came
from Tunisia. Every vast hoof of this
elephant was plaited with golden thongs,
lustrous tassels threaded with uncut
emeralds waved from every joint of his
harness.
Into this howdah went the Reigning
Favorite, the Bigum Iqilima, who was
named after Adam’s daughter, her four
sons, her “confidante,” the Bigums Suc-
reeti and Roshanara, with their infant
sons, and seven concubines. The next
elephant bore the six hill-gipsies and no
concubines, for thees little firebrands bit or
otherwise mishandled any other passengers.
The third elephant carried the Princess
Arnawaz, a Persian, her two sons, her
confidential friend, the ladies Farida and
Nahid and two concubines. These ladies
might be called the “smart set” or even
the “fast set” of the household they
adorned. Their dark and flashing eyes
were rimmed with khol.
Their cheeks were painted
with ceruse. Their bare
waists were as supple as a
flue of silk. Their nails were
stained to a beautiful red with
arkhanda. Their unveiled
loveliness (for they were
Persians) shone more brightly than the
thirty-six stars called “Wujah,” So
lovely were they that while their lackeys
shouted “Band! Band! Make way!
Make way for the Princess Arnawaz!”
their ayahs squatted on the roadway and
burnt rue to keep off demons, and
all the bystanders exclaimed “Wah!
Wah!”
These resplendent beings moved off on
the young female elephant “So Sorry
Cannot Wait,” who was panoplied in sky-
blue and silver.
All this time the baby elephant
“Zoozoo,” who was entirely painted over
with a white pattern resembling Not-
tingham-lace, and who was further
adorned with a necklet of blue beads as
big as oranges, rollicked and lolloped
about mewing piteously. He muzzled
first one elephant and then another en-
deavoring to find his mother, “Pearl of
Heaven,” the sixth elephant on the string,
who, being on duty, refused to acknow-
ledge him. He was ultimately hauled
back to his stable.
The fourth elephant was without
splendor. An uncurtained knife-board
effect seated ten of Sir David’s elder
sons, gay little boys who had begged to
be allowed to take their toys with them,
and did so.
The fifth elephant, the bad-tempered
“August Official Thinker,” harbored the
Dowager, the Bigum Miriam, the
“chaperone” of the harem (who had been
recommended by no less a person than
the Emperor Aurungzeb the Great
Moghul, the “White Snake” as his
brothers called him), many even more
mature matrons and a plethora of con-
cubines —occupants of lower seats as they
say, who were always petted and made
much of by the older Bigums.
It was well over an hour before the
bustle and chatter, the squeals and
whispers, the vituperations and even the
slaps that heralded the departure of the
ladies had died down in the hall and the
last elephant, “Prince Pleasant Green
Shoot” burdened with sixteen coal-black
widows, a bequest from the estate of the
late Ensign Shipp of Bangalore, had
turned out of the laurelled and ilexed
drive into the highway,
PEEPING through a “chick,” a curtain
of threaded beads and reeds. Sir
David had watched his household’s de-
parture with many chuckles of pure joy.
He was one of those men for whom life
held no dull moments.
This particular Sir David Ochterloney
(there were others of his name) was
Governor of a large and important pro-
vince in Northern India, and his official
duties brought in their trail many difficult
problems. It greatly helped his simple
mind, so sheltered in early youth by the
rigors of a “manse” training in the neigh-
borhood of Peebles, in a Scotland then
somewhat less “bonnie” than the ballads
lead one to infer, to study the plots and
counter-plots, the workings of the
thousand and one disputes that agitated
without intermission the peace of his un-
official life; from them he drew a rich
experience that strengthened his judgment
when he was dealing with the cabals of
his civilian officials and the turbulent and
treacherous people over whom he ruled.
In such racial and family intrigues he was
able to trace a pattern that would have
baffled Freud and amazed Rousseau and
Adam Smith.
As he turned from the window when
“Prince Pleasant Green Shoot’s” perfect
posterior had whisked
through the gate in an ele-
phantine trot, Sir David, not
for the first time, was
puzzled by the recollection of
a scene which (as he recalled)
had taken place in that very
room on the twenty-fifth day
of the preceding month—the Angel Ird
presiding.
The house was quiet, for the household
officers had retreated to the ti-khana, the
underground rooms, to practice the
coloratura roulades, the piercing trills, the
thrilling cadenzas, with which they, at
concerts, delighted to assuage His Honor’s
leisure hours, and having for the nonce
nothing else to do. Sir David put away
the file of papers marked “Sons, careers
for,” grouped under the headings “Navy,”
“Trade,” “Madras Army,” “Civil Service,”
“Political” and “Missions” (Sir David was
careful to make due provision for all his
dependants); and, unlocking a drawer in
his desk, he took out the notebook en-
dorsed “Quarrels,' household; Murriam,
Oude ; Vol. 290.”
With the help of the jottings he had
made at the time Sir David was able to
reconstruct, perfectly, this mysterious
intrigue which had so teased and troubled
his memory.
HIS Hindu bearer, Punchum, with his
permission (though he had no know-
ledge of its purport), had taken a message
to Toz, in Persia, for the Princess
Arnawaz. This servant had left behind
him his son, a Chokra, aged eleven years,
whose duties were to polish his Honor’s
boots, to care for his Honor’s clothes,
distributed on a network of strings and
ropes across the corners of his dressing-
room, and to remove and polish his
Honor’s spectacles.
The boy had done his work well. His
ministrations had been found particularly


soothing in this lastnamed small attention.
Sir David had good long-sight, but he was
short-sighted, and in the summer weather
the glasses he used for reading soon
clouded over. It was troublesome to
remove and polish them himself ; he would
therefore push a dimmed pair up on to
his forehead and put on a fresh pair taken
from his tray. When left long alone Sir
David would have as many as four pairs
of spectacles perched on top of his head
while another set of the hom-rimmed
owlish circlets, balanced across his nose,
would emphasise the limpid blue of his
childlike and inquiring eyes. His hair,
unfortunately, was the wrong shade of
red, but he was otherwise a handsome,
hawkfeatured man without a superfluous
ounce of flesh on his body, for he kept
himself fit by violent exercise.
His notes made the reconstruction of
last month’s quarrel easy. The keeper
of the elephants, Murad, his two assist-
ants, Farid and Ibrahim, and the Mahout
of the elephant “So Sorry Cannot Wait”
had invaded his office —the room in which
he now sat —and (such a formidable row
of bearded men) had accused the Chokra
of theft. They had forced the boy to
bring in the roll of bedding on which he
slept outside Sir David’s dressing-room
door, and, opening this diminutive bundle
of rags, had displayed the stolen articles:
One infant’s shoe, much worn.
One torn envelope.
One medicine bottle.
One piece of broken china patterned
in blue.
On this betrayal of his guilt the Chokra
had drawn the end of his turban over his
mouth and murmured “I am one whose
barque is overfreighted.”
When Sir David had asked him “Have
you no explanation to offer?” the
Chokra had turned his face to the wall
and answered “I have drawn out the
molar-tooth of hope.”
SINCE it was the turn of the Moham-
medan faction to have judgment
given in its favor. Sir David had dis-
missed the Chokra. The triumphant
Mohammedans had taken from him his
white turban with its red-and-gold de-
vice, his white coat with its scarlet cum-
merbund, they had replaced the stolen
treasures ostentatiously on his Honor’s
desk and the Chokra had withdrawn from
“The Presence,” to be seen no more.
But Sir David continued to wonder-
why? Why this conspiracy to destroy so
small and helpless an Unbeliever? Only
one hint occurred to him, and this
seemed preposterous in its implications.
Was it because the Chokra could count?
As he well knew, the simple people of
the countryside could seldom- count be-
yond 10; they ticked off the numerals
on their fingers like women. But the
Chokra was known to possess the gift
of counting up to 26 ; how he did it was
his secret.
Sir David, while absorbed in this
conundrum, had been conscious that the
elephants had returned and that the ladies
had yet once again been decanted from
their howdahs; however, he was too
much preoccupied to watch the unloading
as he had intended to ; he was still in
distressed meditation over another dis-
turbing incident which had baffled con-
jecture. His mind dwelt on the grief of
the Bigum Roshanka, who had been
weeping for days, who refused to be
comforted and who (to his amazement)
shrank from him if he drew near her.
She could not be induced to disclose a
reason for her sorrow.
A SOUND made him look up, to see
the Chokra whom he had dismissed
stand salaaming in the doorway, and he
bade him enter.
After many obeisances the boy took off
his shoes and, entering the room, stood
by Sir David’s desk shaking
with fright yet with a
scarcely - hidden air of
triumph.
However indigent he may
be, it is the custom for a
poor man visiting a rich man
to bring a gift. A tray of
spices? Heaps of ginger, curry-powder and
cloves? Almonds and raisins? A Pash-
mina kid bleating at'the end of a rope?
A roll of Dakka muslin? Such offerings
were beyond the Chokra’s power to
parade, even though it was usual merely
to touch and return them. He had
brought the beggar’s gift, one green leaf.
Like a child, he had chosen a pretty one,
a colocynth leaf, striped white and green.
This he laid on the desk, and he folded
his trembling hands and bowed his
humble head and looked very like a
supplicant.
“After wounds —retaliations,” he re-
marked in a quavering voice.
The Chokra was quoting from the
Qur’an, the Mohammedan’s Holy Book,
and for a Hindu to do such a thing was
positively eerie. Sir David realised that
the matter was serious and prepared for
fi long session.
“Speak, boy,” he commanded and
pushed up his glasses, for they had sud-
denly clouded over.
“I am water and clay,”
“Truly.”
The Chokra had rehearsed the next
bit, and he continued glibly. “This
threshold-kissing dunderhead was feeding
a she-ass on water-moss by the corner of
the potter’s field at the spot where the
rainwater stagnates below a bank of
rushes...”
“Yes?”
“The Sahib knows the place?”
“I know it well.”
“This miserable one’s next brother was
beating a drum to drive the birds away
from the corn the potter is growing to
feed his father-in-law’s sister’s cousin’s
doddered ox.”
“I am in no hurry.”
“This foolish one’s next brother was
making scales out of tne halves of an
orange thrown away,” the Chokra medi-
tated. “By Yacob, the tax-gatherer, it
had neither pith, pip nor pulp.”
“Proceed, O enlightened teller of
miraculous happenings!” Sir David in-
terjected by way of encouragement.
“Near the door of his hut his Honor’s
butcher, who lives at the far end of the
Potter’s field, was eating a dish of sheep’s
guts, stuffed, and it smelt very good, so
this abject one ran away from the pain
of it up on to the highway, and lo! his
Honor’s ‘House’ came out of his gate,
hidden in the howdahs of twenty-four
elephants—this vile one counted them —
twenty-four elephants, and followed
them, but there fell nothing from them
to distend the stomachs of the poor, so
this clod of earth waited for their re-
turn, for, Huzoor, sometimes the Prin-
cess Arnawaz will throw down a few
coins—some sequins or picer—for the
needy....”
“And does she
now?” Sir David was
interested.
“Sir, this despicable
cumberer of the ground
waited by his Honor’s
gate; Sir, in two hours
twenty-three elephants
returned. This camel-
hearted son of little
worth counted them!
Assuredly there were
twenty-three.”
“D id you notice
which elephant was
missing?” Sir David
asked, hiding his emo-
tion.
“Which is heaven?
Which is the Rope?”
asked the Chokra cryp-
tically. By this he
meant to imply that he
did not know the answer to that ques-
tion.
SEEING that Sir David was about to
rise the Chokra deftly removed the
accumulated four pairs of spectacles
which had been pushed up on to his red
brush of hair (it was the wrong shade of
red) and polishing them, laid them on the
tray, and his heart sang for joy, because
his Honor allowed him to perform this
service without comment. Furthermore,
the Chokra, anticipating his needs, for
Sir David never went with uncovered
head into his harem, dived into his
dressing-room and returned with his head-
gear, a kind of beret, a wide-brimmed
pleated affair of blue cloth which, like
a sailor’s hat, had ribbons falling from
it.
Sir David did not reprove him for this
intrusion.. He thanked him, and, looking
down into his eager eyes, said “You may
return to my service and your pay will
be ten rupees a month.”
Having raised the child to
the seventh heaven, he cocked
his beret very much over one
ear, squared his shoulders
and marched off to do battle
with his household. The
Chokra, being a prudent lad,
remained behind. He ran to
beg an advance of pay from a friend, and,
having obtained the money, flew, rejoic-
ing, to the bazaar to buy food.
In a picture of Sir David painted
about this time he is shown wearing just
such a beret. His pantaloons are very
full and gathered—it might almost be
called smocked —round his ankles, his
shoes are picot-edged, his silk shirt has
deep lace frills falling on his collar and
cascading over his knuckles, and it is
fastened by a dozen gold buttons. He is
shown wearing a red, loose-fitting coat,
its revers being turned back from neck
to waist and frogged with braid, the same
braid holding the gathers of his volumi-
nous sleeves in place. In his portrait he
carries both sword and dagger. He may,
very likely, have been so attired when he
went, inwardly fuming with rage, out-
wardly perfectly calm, to inquire into
the mystery of the missing elephant and
to learn —and how his heart misgave
him! —which of his ladies had run away
from him —the ungrateful minx!
ON leaving his office Sir David walked
through the hall which occupied a
square space of perhaps an acre and a
half, and which was paved with blue
and white fragments of broken china set
in cement, even the steps of the wide
staircase being so decorated. Among a
medley of palms and crotons a great
many tigers paraded, for Sir David liked
to see them about, and though they were
stuffed and though their red-flannel
tongues plainly showed the ravages of
moths and silverfish, they looked suffi-
ciently impressive. The gal-
lery above this entrance-hall
was supported by white and
blue pillars and railed, like
the bannisters, with ara-
besques of wrought - iron
painted blue and white. As
the balcony was the
thoroughfare for all intercourse between
the ladies of his harem, it was usually as
busy as Fleet-street. Today all was silent.
To wear a red garment is a sign of
anger. His Honor guessed that the eyes,
peeping through the apertures of every
door in sight, must have read the warning
portent of his coat. He decided to hold
the inquiry in the Place of Obeisance.
So, sending for Usbeg, he ordered his
whole household to assemble in this
State apartment. At the top of this large
room was an armchair resembling a
throne set on a red carpet and having a
background of gold brocade. On this
Sir David sat while his whole seraglio
and all his officials assembled round him.
THIS Place of Obeisance was
decorated in black filigree-work
edged with silver on a dazzling white
ground. Mirrors, not
more than five inches
wide, joined floor to
ceiling at intervals
about a foot apart. The
effect of this decora-
tion was mysteriously
brilliant; while no
forms were wholly re-
flected in the looking-
glass, color vibrated,
there, since a row of
crystal candelabra,
swinging on chains
from the roof, were lit
by a thousand cqndles,
and the floor was made
of wooden bricks thinly
patterned in gold and
silver. It reflected
every spark of light.
The ladies were veiled.
Only the six hill-gipsies
in their short grass
skirts and their narrow black stoles, their
bill-hooks their steel “kookries”
clutched in their hands and standing back
to back, as was their custom in an
emergency, lent a somewhat barbaric
touch to the Oriental splendor of this
gathering.
There was a good deal of movement;
each Bigum had two whisk-beard s, each
concubine a slave to undulate her fan,
and the room was overpoweringly
scented with attar of roses, pan, sandal-
wood, jasmine and a thousand perfumes.
When all were present Sir David called
on Usbeg to produce his list of departures
for that evening. On this exact record
being checked, it was found that the ele-
phant “So Sorry Cannot Wait” was
missing ; and it further transpired that the
Princess Arnawaz, her two sons, the
ladies Farida and Nahid, the two concu-
bines and the, mahout Murad were not
among those present.
The evasive answers made to all Sir
David’s questions greatly protracted the
inquiry.
“How, did it happen,” he demanded,
“that the mahout Murad, who set out on
the elephant ‘lmpossible Splendors’—
which beast is now in its stable—is
missing, while the mahout of the missing
elephant ‘So Sorry Cannot Wait’ is pre-
sent in this room?”
“Allah a’lam,” Usbeg replied. “God
knows.”
“Allah harim” —“God is good,” his
assistant asserted.
'"THE ancient matron, the Bigum
A Miriam, who was the chaperone of
his seraglio, coming forward, had mur-
mured through her veil “Allah has
stitched the earth to the sky with
arrows,” by which she meant that the
matter completely baffled her intelligence.
“This indeed is a house of sighs,” was
the contribution to the discussion put for-
ward by the reigning favorite Iqilima,
who was bathed in tears.
“The magic wind that wafted Solo-
mon’s hosts to victory may have de-
flected the paths of those unworthy
ones,” was Usbeg’s final flight of fancy.
He would say no more.
The ladies all swore that the Princess
Arnawaz was “as pure as the enchanted
waters under Mohammed’s throne,” and
that she had no lover. The whole harem
swore that the ladies Farida and Nahid
were equally pure and that they, too, had
no lovers, and that neither of the two
concubines was less pure than those en-
chanted waters, and every lady in the
Zenana swore this by the oath most
sacred to her; “By the ten fresh and
shining crystals of the Beloved,” by which
was meant Sir David’s own ten fingers.
And when all the other ladies had con-
tributed to the discussion such exclama-
tions as “Out, alas!” “Fie!” “Indeed!”
“Ah!” “This is a place of surprises!”
“How has Allah darkened the felicity of
his Honor’s house! ” Sir
David had learnt nothing
more than that the mahouts
of the two elephants had
changed places where the
Lucknow-road joined the
Grand Trunk-road, that the
elephant “So Sorry Cannot
Wait” had then headed at a brisk trot
in the direction of Persia and beyond and
that all five ladies were enceinte.
from the evasive manner of
1 everyone present Sir David suspected
that there were dark undercurrents of
which he had no cognisance, he could
learn no more. He dismissed the assembly
and returned to his office.
He found nothing in any of his note-
books to clarify his judgment in this
difficult matter, so he took a chance.
Acting in accordance with the prompting
of his own nature, he wrote a letter to
the Princess Arnawaz, addressing it to
the care of her father’s house in the town 1
(or village) of Toz, and he began the
letter with the Persian equivalent of
“puir wee lassie.” This missive, together
with all the clothing, jewels and trea-
sures of the five missing ladies, he
dispatched by the hands of his bearer
Punchum in the panniers of a string of
trotting camels. He sent them also the
sum of eight thousand aspers.
It may be mentioned that Punchum
had returned from Persia quite dumb,
and that he gave no answer but “Adam
returns to Adam,” to any questions put
to him.
j T is recorded in the biography by his
* son, Sir Ottoman Ochterloney, of the
Indian Civil Service, that, after the de-
parture of the Princess Arnawaz, his
father took no further pleasure in his
High Seraglio, and that he never again
visited his ladies, whom he handsomely
pensioned off in his country villa outside
Lucknow.
Sir Ottoman did not know the reason
for this change of heart.
It followed on the reception of the
letter which his father’s bearer Punchum
brought him on his return from the city
—or caravanserai—of Toz on the thir-
teenth day of the solar month Tir, the
stm being in Cancer, the Angel Tistry,
the Guardian of Cattle, presiding.
A present of grapes from Khorasan,
each one the length of a finger and sepa-
rately wrapped in cotton-wool, accom-
panied the missive, which read as fol-
lows ;
Beloved.
We, unworthy women, wounded to the
marrow of the heart, left the felicity of
your Honor’s protection and wilfully de-
prived ourselves of the sunbeams radiating
from the warmth of your Magnificence
because we, unworthy vessels, wished our
promised children, should they be daughters,
to live.
Only, then did Sir David realise that
the dowager Miriam, the Bigum (rigor-
ously schooled in the harem of the Em-
peror Aurungzeb), and the Keeper of his
High Seraglio, Usbeg, the Persian (so
highly recommended to him by Shah
Shuja, who had written “he is economi-
cal and orthodox extremely”), had been
“old-fashioned” in their rule of his house-
hold ; following the ancient custom of
the country, they had allowed no girl-
babies to survive the moment of birth.
The Green Grass of Haigslea.
Green grass, as living as my heart.
Grass as depthless as the green sea.
Beating like blood, flowing a wave
Of the world around Haigslea.
Some summer when my day is old,
Alone I shall remember
This cold-flame beauty and be not alone
In the long light of its green ember.
O the green grass plunging to the valley,
Climbing to homestead wall:
Like Haigslea suns, under its swell
Of whispers Haigslea men rise up and fall.
Green grass, wild as the soul’s beginning :
Captive to its wild earth I shall lie
Down singing„ and sleep, and here dis-
cover
My burial before I die.
QUEENSLAND.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM.


(friisaber
m
CLOTH
• «
GUARANTEED. TO FADE OR SHRINK
Nu-METAL
SAVES
ENGINE
REBORE
NEW
RINGS
Just pour RE-NU liquid NU-METAL
through plug holes. NU-METAL will re-
condition your • motor while you drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles, and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL has been proved and!
tested by over 100,000 users since 1934,i
many owners having used NU-METAL 1
three and four times in the same engine.
NU-METAL comes to you in a separ-
ate tube for each cylinder, thus eliminat-
ing guess work. Municipal Councils,
Engineers, etc., use NU-METAL. Treatment
costs for 1,4, 6, 8 cylinders, 10/6, 30/-,,
37/6, 45/-. Call, write, or phone MA7250,
Mail Orders post free. C.O-D.’s plus'
Postal Charges.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return NU-
METAL to treat a Cylinder Engine.
'I enclose Cheque—P.N.
Or please send me illustrated Folder
describing action of NU-METAL.
iName
Address
BRISTOL TRADING COMPANY
Ist Floor, Bristol House,
147 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. MA 7250.
B. 27/4/’49
Ci/ARD
PROTECTA
ml
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE .
ADELAIDE
KSKT B 0
W. C Penfold & Co. Pty. Ltd.
, Norman Bros, Pty. ktd.
Vardon A Sons Ltd-
Docket Book Co. iABlt-I
SUNDRY SHOWS
A STORY OF MORE
WOE.
Wh e n the Metropolitans
opened their new theatre in the
St. Laurence Hall, Sydney, with
“Romeo and Juliet” the white
proscenium arch, with a window
on one side for Juliet and a door
on the other for the Friar’s cell
and the hard white stage settings
for all the scenes, reminded the
observer of an uncut wedding-
cake.
This warning of unconsum-
mated delights, appropriate in
many ways to the tragedy, was
amply fulfilled in the perform-
ance, although May Hollin-
worth’s production left little to
be desired. The play was staged
in the swift Stratford manner;
as one scene ended the curtains
closed or opened immediately
and the actors of the next scene
strode on ; the manipulation of
exits and entrances from side-
doors and up and down from
in front of the stage was fault-
less ; and the actors were well-
grouped and naturally moved
about the stage.
But having been so well put
forward to the public, Betty
Lucas gave us not so much the
girl, little more than a child, who
is caught up in a great passion
and a cruel tragedy, as a self-
possessed Juliet who seemed to
have the whole play sewn-up like
a trousseau: a Juliet who had
been making a study of Shak-
speare. Her half-amused, half-
mocking tenderness over the
line
O Romeo, Romeo! wherefore art
thou Romeo?
would have been perfect if
Juliet had been a sophisticated
young lady of fashion ; it might
more properly have been varied
to take in Owen Weingott’s
Romeo;
O Romeo, Romeo! wherefore art
thou Romeo?
because, although he acted force-
fully, Mr, Weingott was always
a little too much the man of
experience impressed and
humbled in the presence of abso-
lute and childlike devotion;
anxious to oblige: this is a play
where “beauty and beauty meet”
on equal terms ; even Gielgud in
his youth did not feel handsome
or heroic enough for the part;
the half-closed throat and re-
sultant thrilling voice are no
compensation for the open and
ringing tone demanded for this
boy lover.
The best thing Mr. Weingott
did was his duel with Tybalt,
although this had the further ill-
effect upon the performance of
removing its most exciting
actor: Frank Waters’s Tybalt
was a suave and hissing puma of
ill-nature, evilly fascinating in
life and death.
It is easier to be perfect in
such strong characterisations
than in more normal and varied
parts such as that of Friar
Lawrence, as whom Kevin
Brennan diffused calmness,
strength and wisdom like incense
about the theatre, and made of
the rhymed couplets of his first
entrance a music rare on stage
or off it.
In the beautiful quality of this
recital one forgot to wonder
what Shakspeare was trying to
tell us about the dawn —an essay
requiring concentration from
even the fireside-reader ; but the
Metropolitan players, in their
new theatre not unserenaded by
the N.S.W. Government Tram-
ways, should take great care
with their voices. The defect of
Kenneth Pawley’s Mercutio, for
instance, was not so much his
vigorous acting as his violent
breaks of vocal line; he would
jump a sentence suddenly from
the floor to the ceiling, and with
such startling alternations of
fast and slow that you would
think he was trying to prevent
your knowing what it was.
In rounding off this post-
mortem it is proper to express
a few words of thanks to the
Nurse, Beatrice Wenban, whose
portrait of a touchy old humbug
redeemed Juliet’s nurses from
the lovey-dovey slander put
upon them by the Shearer-
Howard film.
Before the performance the
visiting English producer and
adviser on National Theatre to
the Commonwealth Govern-
ment, Tyrone Guthrie, blessed
the new theatre with a few re-
marks on the memories theatres
hold of performances which
have been given in them ; and at
the end of the performance he
was presented with a de luxe
copy of Douglas Stewart’s “Ned
Kelly,” which the Metropolitan
players have produced twice.
Thus handsomely enlisted, Mr.
Guthrie’s theatrical influence
should be exerted to its magical
utmost to make the new theatre’s
memory begin from its next pro-
Auction; it would be too bad if,
after every wonderful perform-
ance of the future, a voice were
to pipe down from the rafters
“Yes, but what about ‘Romeo
and Juliet’?”—
For never was a story of more woe
Than this of Juliet and her Romeo.
"Rusty Bugles."
Sumner Locke-Elliott’s play,
put on by the Doris Fittons at
the rejuvenated King’s in Mel-
bourne, is a play about Aus-
tralian soldiers marooned be-
tween the wet and the dry in tin
huts in a dreary desert in the
N.T. It is an excellent piece of
reporting done from the outside
rather than the inside, and
bears something the same rela-
tion to the art of drama as a
gramophone recording of
noises made in a gully bear to a
piece of music.
The poises in this case are
made by 10 or a dozen soldiers
bored to distraction, some to
near-madness, by the monotony
of an existence dominated by
the twin evils of an unsympa-
thetic sergeant and the weather
and where the advent of a Jap
plane would have been a wel-
come diversion. The argot, the
bad language, the inveterate use
of the Australian form of in-
verted expression, the individual
grouches and the obsession with
women are all authentic, and the
types depicted, from the fat
bludger to the more sensitive
Rod Carson, are so factually
perfect that one gets the sensa-
tion of looking at a real scene
through a keyhole.
The only scene charged with
strong emotion is where sundry
soldiers get in touch with their
wives or girl-friends on long-
distance and in various ways
have their illusions about the
immutability of love shattered.
Their several tragedies, which
would each make a play in it-
self, are immediately submerged
and forgotten in the rush of
trivial emotions, which, after all,
is what life is like when seen
through a keyhole.
The play is admirably pro-
duced and acted, and achieves
its aim of depicting boredom
without being boring. At any
rate, audiences laugh from be-
ginning to final curtain.
Stanley Holloway.
Invited to a reception to meet
Stanley Holloway, The Bulle-
tin attended and managed to
push through a closely-packed
asse m b 1 y o f reporters,
photographers and radio-enter-
tainers to someone who bore a
suspicious resemblance to the
comedian.
“Mr. Holloway?” he was
asked. “Aye,” he said, or some-
thing like it. “Mr. Stanley Hollo-
way?” “I’m not sure,” he re-
plied. “Well, you’re not the
Shakspearean, Baliol Hollo-
way?” “No.” “And not W. E.
Holloway, the Adelaide actor
who made his mark in London
and other places?” “No.”
“Then who else could you be?”
“Well,” he replied, “I’ve just
been told by an earnest old lady
that I’m the best Acting Prime
Minister Australia has ever had.”
The comedian is a pleasant,
middle-aged man with a smile
that reveals a mouthful of teeth
which look as though they could
easily masticate the Blackpool
lion which swallowed Young
Albert.
Originally a seaside concert
performer, Holloway' made his
first stage appearance in the
West End at the Winter Garden
in 1919 as Captain Wentworth
in “Kissing Time”; since then
he has appeared in a list of plays
as long as your arm —he is the
sole surviving male member of
the original cast of “The Co-
Optimists”—and also, with his
humorous monologues, has given
a degree of fame to such charac-
ters as Sam, Young Albert and
the lady who walks the Bloody
Tower with ’er ’ead tooked
oonderneath ’er arm at the mid-
night ow’er.
Since 1942 he has appeared
mainly in films, topping off a
string of excellent comedy per-
formances with his highly-com-
mendable portrayal of the
gravedigger in Olivier’s “Ham-
let.”
Bach-Handel Festival.
It was fitting that Eugene
Goossens should have coupled
Handel and Bach in the orches-
tral and choral festival which he
opened with a fine programme
at Sydney’s St. Andrew’s Cathed-
ral, as it was fitting that such
music as that of these com-
posers, especially Bach, should
be heard in a cathedral —that
is a typical Goossens touch.
It has been said, and wrongly,
that the only two things Bach
and Handel had in common
were that they were born in the
same year and were the victims
of the same English eye-surgeon
in the blindness that afflicted
both in their last years. True,
Bach has emerged as the greater
figure and exercised possibly the
greatest influence any one man
has had on the music that has
followed him. But both were
very great organists and both de-
veloped the polyphonic style of
music until it could say no more.
And who shall say that the Con-
cert! Grossi of Handel are any
whit inferior to the six Branden-
burg Concerti of Bach?
One of these Brandenburgs,
the third, opened proceedings at
St. Andrew’s. Here the weaving
of the various melodies for the
strings went forward joyously in
the opening allegro, and there
was sweeping, power in the
allegro moderato, which didn’t
let up till the final bar. The Suite
in B for Flute and Strings had
Neville Amadio as soloist.
Graceful and gay almost
throughout, except for the rather
unbending Overture and the
stately Sarabande, the work gives
great scope for fluent flute-play-
ing, and here the soloist shone.
The other of the big works
was Handel’s Organ Concerto
No. 3 in G Minor. A by-pro-
duct of the organ improvisations
which Handel used to give
as entr’actes for the diversion of
audiences at. his oratorios, these
concerti are all marked by
sharply-drawn contrasts. Usu-
ally in these, too, the two fast
movements are separated by a
slow one. In the Third the slow
movenjent comes first. Although
the orchestra had to be placed
rather haphazardly in the cath-
edral, with the conductor having
to turn round to give the or-
ganist (Hugh Bancroft) his cue,
nothing was lost in the general
effect.
Peter Dawson.
The Australian voice that has
been more widespread than any
other except Bertie Evatt’s ar-
rived on Melbourne Town Hall
platform the other night in the
stout frame of Peter Dawson.
The Adelaide balladist, who
holds the world’s record for the
largest number of gramophone
recordings sold by any artist —
13,000,000 —instantly took a large
house to his bosom. He sang
“When Valiant Ammon,” from
Battishil’s “Almina,” Handel’s
“O Ruddier than the Cherry,”
and finished up with his own
interpretation of “Largo al Fac-
totum.”
All the old dramatic skill of
the Bradman of Baritones was
in the first two items and some
of the music, but Rossini’s Bar-
ber was disappointing. Never-
theless it was a remarkable per-
formance on the part of a 67-
year-old singer who last year
travelled the length and breadth
of Britain, gave 70 scheduled
concerts and was so popular that
he added another 19—all in six
months.
John Cameron.
John Cameron is one of the
most promising young baritones
who has cast up on a Sydney
concert-platform for many years.
His voice is easily-produced,
strong and resonant and of a
timbre suggestive of Lawrence
Tibbett’s, and he has a keen
musical intelligence and an
artistry which, at this early stage
of his career, bodes well for the
future.
Cameron started his Sydney
Con. farewell recital with Mon-
teverdi’s “Lasciatemi Morire,”
the phrasing of this monumental
lamentation being first-rate. The
forward surge of a Handel group
was well maintained, the proud
declamation of the “Si, Tra i
Ceppi” being especially effective.
Some Schubert lieder gave evi-
dence of much careful study of
the moods of each song, from
the grief-stricken “Der Doppel-
ganger” and the rapture of “Am
Feierabend” to the lilting light-
ness of the fragile “Heiden Ros-
lein.”
Songs by the modem Finnish
composer Kilpinen, the dramatic
content of which outweighs
thefr melodic measure, were
generally of moderate success.
The group of English songs
included Cyril Scott’s “Lord
Randall,” and the way the singer
rasped out “A rope from hell to
hang her with!” was tragedy
with a bang. The final high note
ending on “life” of Coleridge-
Taylor’s fine song “Life and
Death”—high notes ending on
an “i” are a particular bugbear
for singers—was achieved with-
out apparent effort.
State Orchestra.
Looking extraordinarily like
the Melbourne Symphony
Orchestra, the Victorian State
Orchestra gave its first perform-
ance as a semi-socialistic body
at the Town Hall. The daily-
paper critic who found a great
difference in the quality of the
playing may have been tyran-
nised over by titles like the man
who thinks that if a tomato is
classed as a vegetable or a fruit
it will make a difference to the
tomato.
The present commentator
couldn’t see any discernible dif-
ference except, perhaps, that the
organisation appeared to make
its attack on an exceptionally
fine programme with a bit more
verve and sparkle than on the
last occasion, especially in the
12 lovely Contra-dances of
Beethoven.
The Walton concerto had for
soloist Ernest Llewellyn, who
has matured out of all propor-
tion. His fiddle dreamed
through the opening movement,
fought the orchestra in the ex-
citing presto and went on to
fresh speed records in the extra-
ordinarily swift vivace, smooth-
ing the tempest out in the finale
with a long talk to itself, and
then finished off abruptly. The
Brahms Symphony No. 1 was
40 minutes of sustained good
playing.
Australia’s first musical knight
bore a close resemblance to the
Ormond Professor of Music and
conducted like him.


.4
w
or after the ball,
Into the street from the sheltering hall;
Then is the cold catching time for us all,
The moment of danger be sure.
Winter mischances our happiness mar,
Sore throat, bronchitis and nasal catarrh;
Then for its advent how grateful we are*
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
For Coughs, Colds *— remember
Woods 9 Great Peppermint Cure
CITY TATTERSALL’S
CLUB
AUTUMN RACE MEETING
at RANDWICK
SATURDAY, 30th APRIL, 1949
Principal Events:
GEORGE HERDSMAN STAKES
Six Furlongs
CITY TATTERSALL'S CLUB HANDICAP
One Mile and a Quarter
Special trams direct to racecourse gates
First Race 1 p.m.
198 Pitt Street, Sydney. E. BYRON, Secretary.
Ancestors of an Industry
Pair 50
I «
Paw
Co i Mi 22 Br 29
Cl 15
F 8
H 1
Os 51
Ag 37
Cs 44
K K>
Li 2
Xa 9
H* 52
Ba.Vtt
Ci 58
G 5
Mg 10
Tl 33
"a ib
1' 40
A] 11
Bo 4
Ft St
W 47
C 5
5112
Bi S 3
Mi 18
Pl 3
Mu
N 6
Tl. S*
Au M
0 7
S 11
J. A. R. Newlands was the first man to
appreciate that the chemical elements fall naturally
into families and groups. These, he found, have
similar properties, which are related to their atomic
weights. Newlands also noticed that, if the
elements were arranged in a certain way, the same
physical and chemical properties reappeared after
each interval of eight. He therefore called his dis-
covery the “Law of Octaves.” Developed by
others later, it eventually emerged as the “Periodic
Table,” which has proved of immense practical
value, and enabled the existence of unknown
elements to be predicted with remarkable accuracy.
A Londoner, born in 1837 ©f Scottish and Italian
parentage, Newlands was educated at the Royal
College of Chemistry. He fought with Garibaldi in
Italy, but returned to London to practise as an
analytical chemist. Later he taught chemistry at
Southwark Grammar School and elsewhere, but
finally became chief chemist in a sugar refinery at
Victoria Docks. Though his “Law of Octaves”
was laughed at when he first propounded it to the
Chemical Society in 1864, time, proved him to
be right. In 1887 he was awarded
the Davy Medal of the Royal
Society for the discovery which, for
twenty-three years, had earned him
little but ridicule. Newlands died
in 1898.
ICI
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
- U-/76/W ■
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
RED MILL RUM.
For some weeks now it has been
the practice in Sydney to swab all
winners, but the rule was waived
when Carbon Copy concluded a fine
campaign by winning the marathon
A.J.C. Plate at Randwick on Satur-
day. It was a nice little gesture on
the part of the authorities and a
tribute to a grand colt.
Once a three-miler, the A.J.C. Plate
is now run over two and a quarter
miles, at which it is still the longest
flat race run in Australia. Only three
accepted for Saturday’s race, Carbon
Copy being opposed by Russia and
Courier. Carbon Copy scored by
10 lengths from Russia, with Courier
finishing 15 lengths further back to
pick up a very easy £2OO. Watching
the youngster’s effortless win, one
felt it a pity that connections had
succumbed to the temptation to bring
Russia back from what was surely
well-earned retirement. However,
second money of £4OO took his total
winnings to £39,300; next above him
on the list of Australian stake-winners
is Ajax with £40,000.
Carbon Copy’s Sydney visit was
most profitable. Four wins from as
many starts netted something in
excess of £14,000 in stakes. In all,
the Helios colt has won 10 races and
£28,696, a record sum for a three-
year-old, beating by about £3OO the
previous figure credited to Trivalve.
Trivalve had rather the better record
of the pair, his three-year-old vic-
tories including the Melbourne Cup,
both Derbies and the V.R.C. St. Leger,
but Carbon Copy has had the good
fortune to strike a year with both
the A.J.C. Derby and the Sydney Cup
bumped up in value to £lO,OOO.
Carbon Copy’s Sydney Cup trophy,
a beautiful piece of work valued at
£5OO, is claimed to be the most valu-
able trophy ever put up for a race
here.
Represented by Carbon Copy and
Phoibos, Helios was the most suc-
cessful sire over the Autumn meeting,
with winners of some £14,400. Next
was Midstream with roughly £7OOO,
of which Bernbrook contributed
£5737 for winning the Doncaster.
Melbourne owners headed the list for
the meeting and likewise a Melbourne
trainer in D. McCormick and jockey
in A. Breasley. Six wins earned
Breasley more than £BOO in winning
fees.
The Autumn meeting carried prize-
money of more than £66,000, which
was a record; more equitable dis-
tribution of the same might have
produced better racing and something
closer to a record in the attendance
line. Total attendance of 225,000
and tote turnover of £739,336 were
both figures a fair drop on last year’s
meeting. The first Saturday and
Monday provided, on the whole,
splendid racing, but the programmes
on Wednesday and the final Saturday
were, by contrast, unattractive. Un-
fortunately, though in a way under-
standably, connections of many good
gallopers were reluctant to try their
luck against outstanding horses in
special-weight events, with the result
that several races carrying solid prize-
money provided no more entertain-
ment than can be derived from
watching a good horse do an exercise
gallop. The A.J.C. Plate (£2000),
All-Aged Stakes (£2000), St. Leger
(£3000), Cumberland Stakes (£2000)
and Autumn Stakes (£2000) attracted
respectively three, four, four, five
and six runners.
Almost as marked as the excellence
of three-year-olds over the meeting
was the impression that the two-year-
olds are a mediocre crop. Principal
juvenile events were the Sires’ Produce
and Champagne Stakes. The Nuffield
colt Field Boy made a good job of
winning the Sires’ Produce, but
finished well down the track in the
Champagne, which went to the Mel-
bourne filly Lady Pirouette, who, it
is reported, is to do her future racing
in Sydney. Outstanding in other two-
year-old events was the hitherto very
unlucky Mona’s Choice, a daughter
of Mr. Standfast-Pipeaway. After
notching up a string of five second
placings from six starts, Mona’s
Choice half-broke the ice when she
deadheated for first with Portrait
over seven furlongs on Wednesday.
Saturday brought the Fernhill Handi-
cap, first mile race of the season for
two-year-olds, and Mona’s Choice
won it very easily, despite a plaster
of 9.3, with which she was conceding
81b. to Corosan, a colt with two wins
to his credit. It is a compliment to
the handicapper that the Fernhill very
frequently is won by topweights.
Two of the best races of the meet-
ing were provided by clashes between
Persist and Grey Nurse in events
for three-year-old fillies. They met
twice —once at seven furlongs and
then in Saturday’s Adrian Knox
Stakes (10f.); On each occasion the
pair drew away from the field to
stage a head-and-head battle down
the straight, with Persist both times
narrowly prevailing. Persist is a
handsome big chestnut filly by
Macarthur from the Burnewang mare
Grail Girl; she is to be set now for
the major spring handicaps, and that
would not be aiming too high.
Unlucky horse of the meeting—in
fact, an unlucky horse throughout
his career to date —has been Vaga-
bond. This fellow has the surely
unique record of having won only a
single race and yet having run second
in the A.J.C. Derby (£10,000), Don-
caster (£6000), Sydney Cup (£10,000)
and several other races. Still, as with
Hiraji a year or so back, it may
prove a blessing in disguise when it
comes to issuing weights for the
Melbourne Cup.
* * * *
Conditions at Caulfield on Saturday
were about as bleakly miserable as
could be imagined, mizzling rain
being wafted along by a wind blowing
straight from the South Pole. Adding
to the general dolor, favorites went
down with monotonous regularity.
About the only beaming visage in
sight was that of jockey J. Purtell,
three winners representing a useful
wedding present.
First of Purtell’s treble was the
Law Maker colt Royal Oak, who
came from a long way back to beat
the favorite Dupont in the first
Eltham Trial Stakes. Rather more
appreciated by punters was Purtell’s
second winner, Dusky Rose, a warm
favorite for the six-furlongs Balwyn
Handicap, which she won easily,
leading all the way; Auburn shaped
promisingly in second place. Merry
Imp, a five-year-old Sansofine mare,
gave Purtell his treble by gamely
defeating High Production in the six-
furlongs Mentone Handicap.
Pursuing the considerable improve-
ment he has shown in recent weeks,
the four-year-old Enfield gelding
Vrondi (Stan Martin) very comfort-
ably won the 12-furlongs Riversdale
Handicap. Bold John, who just
pipped Cardinal Colour for second
money, may have his turn before
“Sorry, mate —thought you Were a squid.”
long. Vrondi is by Enfield from
Fission, a wonderfully successful
brood mare. Among many other
winners, Fission is the dam of French
Gem, winner of The Oaks and her-
self. the dam of the famous Gera
horses —Royal Gem, Beau Gem,
Crown Gem, etc.
Completing a rather subdued pro-
gramme at Caulfield, Faunus (A.
Moon) won the Kenilworth Hurdle,
Ben Adhem (Ken Smith) the second
Eltham Trial, and Beau John (N.
Powell) the nine-furlongs Shannon
Handicap.
* * * *
The Sydney Yearling Sales were
due to conclude yesterday. The
customarily excellent catalogue pro-
duced by William Inglis and Son
lists 640 youngsters, many of them
by sires being represented for the
first time. On one point, however,
present scribe questions the firm
of Inglis. This year’s catalogue carries
a new cover-design—a colored photo-
graph of Shannon in the weighing
enclosure at Randwick. Shannon is
depicted with Munro up, carrying the
colors of W. J. Smith, who bought
the horse for 26,000 guineas, raced
him four times in Australia and then
sold him to America. Would not
the colors of the late Peter Riddle
really have been more fitting?
The sale progressed willingly
enough, though at times father-and-
son auctioneers Reg and John Inglis
seemed obliged to call rather more
on their guinea-wheedling powers
than has been necessary in recent
years, when anything with four legs
and a pedigree sold itself.
As usual, the offerings of Kia-Ora
Stud topped the sale. On the first
day Kia-Ora offered the first crop
of the imported Channel Swell, and
15 of these youngsters went for
16,450 guineas. A son of Fairway-
Papilla, -Channel Swell was bred at
the Royal Stud and raced very suc-
cessfully in England. The second
Kia-Ora offering comprised a mixed
lot of 15 yearlings by Midstream and
Le Grand Due; these brought 26,850
guineas, only one (900 guineas) going
for less than a four-figure sum. The
Midstream-Tittle Tattle colt fetched
3000 guineas and one by Le Grand
Due-Session 3500 guineas. On the
third day a further bunch of 14,
representing Agincourt and Channel
Swell, sold for 11,410 guineas.
The 640 yearlings catalogued for
the four-day sale represented 104
different sires; one wonders if both
figures are not higher than they
should be. There has been in some
quarters in recent years a tendency
to ignore quality in the rush to meet
the demands of the greatly increased
number of people anxious and finan-
cially able to see their colors carried
in a race; one need only look at the
number of entries for Mixed Stakes
events in Sydney any week to con-
firm this impression. Of the 104 sires
mentioned, 22 are represented for the
first time —their oldest progeny year-
lings; the oldest progeny of several
other sires are two-year-olds. Among
these new sires are some at least with
pretty mediocre racing performances
and little other than that to recom-
mend them as worth-while stud-sires.
* * * *
Sydney G.P.S. Regatta, held at
Penrith on Saturday, was the best
seen since the affair was moved from
the Parramatta to the less-rowdy
Nepean, and resulted in Shore regain-
ing the Head-of-the-River title. There
was very little in it, Sydney High
going under by a quarter-length after
fighting out a grand finish; half a
length further back Scots and
Newington deadheated for third. The
event could probably be rowed half a
dozen times under different condi-
tions with a different crew winning
every time; as it was, very dead
conditions favored Shore, who were
nearly a stone-a-man heavier than
High. Training of the very fine Shore
crew was rounded off by Alistair
Robson after his father, L. C.
Robson, headmaster of Shore and
their usual rowing coach, suffered a
serious illness a few weeks back.
All round, High had a most suc-
cessful day, winning the first, second
and third fours as well as finishing
second in the fourth fours and the
championship eights.
In Melbourne, too, it was Head-
of-the-River day, and the title went
to Melbourne Grammar, impressing
as probably the best school-crew-yet
sighted. After rowing 4.47 in win-
ning their heat, the Melbourne Gram-
mar boys clocked 4min. 44f sec. in
winning the final —lOj- seconds better
time than the previous Barwon
record. And they were only paddling
at the finish.
In Brisbane the ladies took an oar
to contest the Australian women’s
championship fours. New South
Wales, represented by a Tweed Heads
crew, won the event from Queensland
and Victoria. It would be interesting
to see a serious revival of women’s
rowing in New South Wales, where
it was once a very popular sport,
with such girls as Angela Mann quite
capable of taking an oar in many
men’s club crews.
“Biff”: Re Test aggregates. For
a series of five matches in a season
Australia’s 6826 runs for 177 wickets
made in Australia in 1928-29 is
“tops”; England’s best is 5712 for
151 wickets in England in 1934.
Batsmen ran riot in the 1928-29 sea-
son, Australians scoring nine centuries
(Woodfull three, Bradman two, and
Kippax, Ryder, Hendry and Jackson
one each) and England eight (Ham-
mond four, Hendren, Leyland, Hobbs
and Sutcliffe one each) —a record still
standing the strain. Worth a niche
is that the sole Australian bowlers to
take over 100 wickets in Tests are
Hugh Trumble, Charlie Turner, M.
A. Noble, George Giffen, Clarrie
Grimmett and Bill O’Reilly.
* * * *
Ern Jarvis (11.1) v. Ken Goddard
(10-10 furnished one of the best
bouts seen at Leichhardt Stadium for
quite some time, though, following
customary local practice, the decision
in favor of Jarvis was hooted to the
echo. With snappy lefts
to the head and body,
Goddard did indeed set
up a useful lead over
the early rounds, but
Jarvis started to make
up leeway in the sixth
and seventh and won
the last three rounds
most convincingly.
* * *
A few more after-
noons’ V.F.L. football
like Saturday’s and half
the Yarraside inhabi-
tants will be on a diet
of digitalis. At Fitzroy
25,000 of them went
through the shattering
experience of witnessing
the locals down the
Blues by a mere near-
miss: Fitzroy 15.16,
Carlton 15.15. Another
25,000, all pretty well
cot cases, saw the Mag-
pies’ wilder booting
triumph over Demon
accuracy by the bare
two points: . Colling-
wood 11.16, Melbourne
12.8. Main other cause
of extreme palpitation
was South’s three-point
win right on the bell:
South Melbourne 12.13, St. Kilda
12.10. Crowds at the other games
enjoyed no more than the usual dis-
turbance of their tickers, Footscray
downing Geelong 12.7 to 9.14, Essen-
don 10.15 to North Melbourne’s
7.14, and the Richmond Tigers
prowling from home to give Haw-
thorn a frightful mauling 20.12-5.13.
* * * *
In a ragged game, neither inspiring
nor inspired, University defeated
Wests in the second spasm of Sydney
Rugby Union competition; Brockotf
scored three of University’s seven
tries, Solomon landed two, and Wile-
man converted six of them. Hard-
castle rallied West’s forwards to
cause the Students some anxiety, but
backline weakness nullified the for-
wards’ efforts. In other games
Randwick soaked St. George 29-12,
Gordon wiped Eastwood 24-9,
Northern Suburbs stoushed Parra-
matta 9-3, and Manly had a narrow
edge on Drummoyne, 14-13.


KEEP YOUR ENGINE
Mobiloil clean
WITH
m
IT GIVES..
• A Cleaner Engine
• Perfect Lubrication
• Longer Engine Life
• Improved Performance
• Quicker Starting
• Complete Protection at All
Speeds & Temperatures
ASK FOR Mobiloil -THE WORLD’S DUALITY OIL
THE “WILD CAT” MONTHLY.
A Review of Company Accounts and Mining Activities.
Price 2/- per Single Copy 22/6 a year post free.
TILLEY. LAMPS
(BURN ORDINARY KEROSENE)
THE MODERN FORM OF PORTABLE LIGHTING
iii
ATTENTION TO DETAIL
is the characteristic of all British products
TILLEY LAMPS
are British made throughout at Hendon and Cricklewood, England
THE TILLEY LAMP COMPANY LTD. OF ENGLAND
London Offices and Showrooms: 33 SACKVILLE STREET, PICCADILLY, W.l
Australian Representatives:
T. H. BENTLEY, Pty. Ltd.,
123-125 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl
Missing Friend.
DOREEN FRANCES McEVOY (nee
HAMILTON).
WILL anyone knowing the whereabouts
of DOREEN FRANCES McEVOY (nee
HAMILTON), and/or her children, the
latter believed to be placed in the care
of a Home in Sydney, New South Wales,
kindly communicate with QUEENSLAND
TRUSTEES, LTD., 395 Queen Street, Bris-
bane, Queensland, Australia. Last known
addresses of Mrs. McEvoy were 62
Warren Road, Marrickville, Sydney, 4
Charles Street, Enmore, Sydney, and
Wootoon Private Hospital Staff, Darling
Street, Darlinghurst, Sydney (possibly
employed under her maiden name). Her
parents are Dennis Hamilton (father),
Annie Hamilton {nee Deverell), (mother),
believed dead. Also a niece of the late
Emily Hartnell, formerly of Bundaberg,
fWiaenslamd. Age approximately 32-37
years, and believed married in Sydney
approximately 1933-35,
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Small furnished flat, moderate
rental, or double-room with use of
kitchen and conveniences, North
Sydney or adjoining districts, by
English married couple.—4617.
Senior telephonist, Sydney, seeks
position in city office. No Saturday
wqrk. —4623.
Dressmaker, Q’land, with small
daughter, wants sewing position on
station in dry climate, shopping
undertaken. —4622.
To buy records “There’s Danger
Ahead” sung by D. Squires, and “Bel
Cerni” sung by D. Shore.—4619.
Bulletin staff man, wife and 12-
months-old child want somewhere to
live in Sydney until own house is
finished.—4618,
To buy new or second-hand copies
of The Sea Beggar by Utley, North-
ward Ho by Nossiter, and Single-
handed Round the World by
Pidgeon.—4620.
To buy a chess-clock. —4621.
Information Sought.
(1) Uses, value and Brisbane buyers
of garnets? (2) In what rock-forma-
tions are they found ?
(1) Garnets are used mainly as
gems and as grinding material. The
value for gem purposes is low, the
cut stones selling for little more than
the cost of cutting. The following
are possible buyers of rough garnets:
E. A. Heiser, Hibernian Building,
Adelaide-street; E. H. Staines, Rowes
Building, Edward-street; McCracken
and Halpin, 28 Brighton-road, High-
gate Hill; and S, Knowles and Sons,
Brisbane Arcade, Queen-street —all
Brisbane. Grinding garnets are in
small demand, and it is suggested
that you write to Frank Hambridge
Pty., Ltd., 22 Bridge-street, Sydney,
regarding prices and sales. It is
known that good-quality grinding
garnet has been sold recently in Bris-
bane for £1 per ton. (2) Garnets
are found generally in crystalline
limestones and dolerites, in intrusive
and especially in metamorphic rocks
such as schists and gneisses, and
they are also met with occasionally
in granite and syenite.
Markets for shark-products in Aus-
tralia ?
The only products of the shark
which have a market in Australia at
the present time are the fins of cer-
tain species and the livers. Informa-
tion concerning a market for the fins
can be obtained from the Chinese
Chamber of Commerce, Sydney. The
livers of New South Wales sharks arc
worth only about 9d. per lb., and
inquiries concerning the disposal of
them might be made from Australian
Fish Derivatives Pty., Ltd., 50
Clarence-street, Sydney. It is not
considered that the capture of sharks
is warranted for these products alone.
There is no market in Australia at
the present time for the skins because
tanners will not undertake to treat
and tan them, and there is no market
for the flesh of large sharks.
* * * *
Cause of asthma; in what localities
should people suffering from the com-
plaint live, and foods to be avoided?
Although the exact cause of asthma
is unknown, there are many factors
that contribute to its development.
In most cases there is an inherited
trait, but nervous shock, indiscretions
of diet, etc., precipitate the attack.
No rule for altitude, soil or climate
can be laid down. Contrary to
popular opinion, the moist location
does not always cause trouble.
Endeavor to find out whether any
dust, odor or special article of diet
is at fault and act accordingly. Foods
should be digestible and nourishing,
flatulence being avoided where pos-
sible by eating slowly and masticating
wind-forming items, greens, etc. See
your local doctor.
* * * *
A few details of the history of the
old Alhambra Music Hall in Sydney ?
The building was originally opened
by Harris Bros, as a hay and corn
store in 1886. The Alhambra Music
Hall was opened in 1889 by Frank
Smith. After Smith’s death in 1896
Mick Simmons transferred the lease
of the building to Delohery, Craden
and Holland at £8 per week. In
1892 Mick Simmons gave the lease
of the building for two years to
Harry Rickard. Rickard then opened
the Tivoli Theatre in the same year
and ran that together with the
Alhambra. Mick Simmons died in
1894 and Rickard closed the Alhambra
in the same year. Then Samuel and
R. Simmons turned the building into
a cigar-factory, which ran for
several years. Following this the
lease of the Alhambra building ex-
pired and Puglieci opened it as the
Alhambra Music Hall. It was still
running in 1914, and it was finally
closed down at about the end of
World War I. The original building
has only been partly demolished and
some of the original walls still re-
rifain. The building is now a motor-
auctior> room.
♦ * * *
Results oj Bill Lang’s contests
with Tommy Burns, Al Kaufman,
Sam Langford and Sam McVee?
Bill Lang was k.o’d. by Tommy
Burns (sixth round) in Melbourne on
September 3, 1908, and outpointed
by Burns (20 rounds) in Sydney on
April 11, 1910. Al Kaufman and
Lang fought a six-rounds no-decision
contest in Philadelphia on September
5, 1910. Lang lost on foul (sixth
round) to Sam Langford in London
on February 21, 1911, and Lang was
k.o’d. (second round) by Sam McVea
in Sydney on October 28, 1911.
* * * *
Method of processing tripe at an
abattoirs ?
The tripes are turned inside-out
and placed in a scalding-machine,
very similar to the ordinary washing-
machines as seen in laundries, which
has an interior perforated rotating
portion that moves in water at about
150 deg. F. This movement within
the water removes the mucus or
interior lining of the stomachs and
cleans the tripes. The tripes are then
removed to cooking-vats and cooked
at boiling-temperature from H to 2
hours, according to the animals from
which they came. After cooking they
are placed in chilled water, the fat is
picked off, and the tripes are scrubbed
and again placed in chilled water
ready for delivery to the distributing
companies.
* * * *
(1) How many of the different kinds
of passiflora bear edible fruit? (2)
When should the vines be pruned and
manured, and when to set out plants ?
(1) Edulis, Grand Mammoth and
Granadilla (all hard-skinned varie-
ties); and Mollisima, which bears
soft-skinned yellow fruit up to 6in. long
and which is used chiefly in salads. (2)
Prune the ends of the runners back
in autumn after the fruiting is over;
new plants can be set out in August
in frost-free areas. Dry, rotted
manure is suitable, but avoid strong
chemical fertilisers.
* * * *
Description of bottle-tree ?
A large tree confined to Q’land
and North Australia, with leaves
growing on the sterile branches. The
stem abounds in a mucilaginous sub-
stance which is wholesome and nutri-
tious, used as a food by the abos.
This juice is obtained by cutting holes
in the trunk. The trunk is contracted
at apex and .base, the swollen part
holding water. Trees reach 50ft. to
60ft. high, with a diameter of 6ft. or
7ft. at the thickest portion of the
trunk. Owing to its shape the tree
is sometimes called gouty-stem.
* * * *
Why is the bust of the reigning
monarch on British coins struck
facing the opposite way to that of his
predecessor ?
Custom was originated by Charles
11, who, it is said, turned his back to
Cromwell. The custom became a
tradition, and continued until the
reign of Edward VIII, who ordered
that his bust on the coins should face
the same way as that of George V.
The coins were, however, never
issued, and George VI followed the
tradition.
* * * *
How is Masonite made?
Masonite is made from waste tim-
ber (wood-chips, etc.) from sawmills
by subjecting the wood to the action
of high-pressure steam. Wood con-
sists of fibres of cellulose bound
together with a substance known as
lignin; the steam separates out the
long cellulose fibres without breaking
or otherwise changing them and
softens the lignin binder so that the
resultant pulp can be pressed into
boards without using an adhesive.
* * * *
Simple method of reducing small
quantities of tin-ore to pure tin ?
Grind concentrates finely and mix
with about half their own weight of
powdered charcoal in a fireclay
crucible. Heat the crucible to a
bright yellow heat in a furnace dr
forge; 21b. or 31b. of concentrates
can be reduced in an hour. It is also
possible to reduce by heating with
sodium or potassium cyanide, which
does not require so much heat. If
an ordinary forge is all that is avail-
able it is inadvisable to deal with
more than £lb. of ore at a time.
=l= * * *
Some information about the Africa
Star?
This decoration was granted for
service in North Africa from June 10,
1940, to May 12, 1943 (dates of
Italy’s entry into the war and cessa-
tion of hostilities in North Africa),
inclusive. The ribbon is pale buff
in color, with a central vertical red
stripe and two other narrower stripes,
one dark blue and the other light
blue. Background is intended as a'
symbol of the desert, the central red
stripe for the armies, the dark blue
stripe for the naval forces and the
merchant navy, and the light blue
stripe for the air forces. The ribbon
is to be worn with the dark blue
stripe furthest from the left shoulder.
Brief Answers.
M. 8.: When house-scraps do not
suffice to feed the cat practically any
proprietary dog-food or biscuits can
be used. Cheese is allowed. Give
access to grass if suspected that
swallowed fur clogs the bowels. As
a laxative add a little paraffin oil to
boiled foods occasionally R.P.:
(1) Water drained from Malthoid
roofing is quite suitable for drinking
purposes. (2) It does not impart any
taste. (3) Yes, it would be advisable
to allow the new Malthoid to be
washed by the first few showers, but
it is not absolutely necessary
W.A.M.: (1) Write American Trade
Commissioner, 7 Wynyard-street,
Sydney. (2) It will be necessary for
the importer to obtain an import-
licence before ordering the goods,
and arrangements would have to be
made through the Commonwealth
Bank for dollar exchange
C.M.M.: For all practical purposes
the times of high tide at Collaroy-
Narrabeen (N.S.W.) beach and Fort
Denison, Sydney, are the same
T.D.: Write C. Price Conigrave,
Hon. Sec., Royal Australian His-
torical Society, History House, 8
Young-street, Sydney F.L.R.: Ask
E. Esdaile and Sons, 42 Hunter-street,
Sydney A.J.R.; The Church of
England in Australia is not a State
Church....S.G.: Write Keith N. S.
and E. Hall, 11-12 First Floor, Rose
Bay-arcade, Rose Bay (N.S.W.)
S.W.: Full particulars are obtainable
from “Food for Britain,” 58 Martin-
place, Sydney G.W.McL.: Write
Division of Wood Technology, N.S.W.
Forestry Commission, 96 Harrington-
street, Sydney, for Pamphlet No. 14,
“Preservation of Fence Posts”
R.O’G.: Rinty Monohan is British
flyweight champion; Jackie Paterson,
bantam; Ronnie Clayton, feather;
Billy Thompson, lightweight; Henry
Hall, welter; Dick Turpin, middle-
weight ; Freddy Mills, light-heavy-
weight ; and Bruce Woodcock, heavy-
weight A.G.: For the purposes of
the Land Sales Control Act the land
would be classified as improved land
and a sale would require the Minis-
ter’s consent G.N.: The fact that
the trees obstruct the view would not
constitute a nuisance, but the inter-
ference by the tree with fences may
well do so. The remedy, however, is
in the Equity Court, and risk of costs
may be a deterrent unless damage is
extensive. See a solicitor N.M.A.:
Akoonah, running water; Balbara,
river; Birkalla, a plain; Kalawar,
flat country; Mundoora, deep water;
Palparu, large plain; Parawirra, river
forest; Wirrabara, place of trees;
Wirrinda, honeysuckle.


was not taken in. He flapped his hands
in front of him, faster and faster his
fists whirled. “Wheresa werry?”
“Oh, be quiet, you whining male!”
said his mother.
“He’s got those words on the brain
now,” said his father. “It’ll be like the
time he went round trying to say ‘rum
and butter’ and we were ashamed to
take him out.”
“Everything he tries to say sounds
vulgar.”
Then Shirley saw ,a willow-tree in the
distance and pointed excitedly. “By that
old tree we are coming to I That’s where
I was born. That’s where my dear old
home is.”
BUT when they reached the willow-
tree there was no house. There was
only a half-ruined stone wall and the
remnant of a gate behind which a few
lean sheep were diligently chewing some-
thing that looked like seaweed.
“Under which tree were you born,
dear?” her husband asked gently. “That
old wattle or the gorse bush?”
“They have moved it higher up,” she
said sadly. “Mum always said that it
was too damp here for a house. Look,
there is smoke behind the trees up there.
That must be the homestead now.”
A Maori youth wheeled his bicycle
down the white dusty road towards them.
“Tena koe,” said the young doctor.
“Good afternoon,” said the Maori.
“All right, good afternoon. What
happened to the barge?”
“I beg your pardon?”
“The barge? There used to be a barge
here, before the bridge.”
“Oh, yes. The bridge has been up
about eight years. They built it before
they changed the name of the place.”
“Isn’t this the Kinopiro River? Isn’t
this Kinopiro?”
“No. It’s New Avalon River now.
This place is New Avalon, both sides.”
‘1 see. Thanks. Do you know Captain
Slack?”
“Sure I do! He lives in that little
white shiphouse across the river.” He
climbed on to his bicycle and winked at
the child who poked his head out of the
car and gave him a belligerent scowl 3
“Wheresa werry?”
THE Captain sat on his broad ver-
andah, his pipe and telescope beside
him. He rose when he saw them get
out of the car and went down to the
gate to meet them. He wore a splendid
nautical uniform, brass buttons, gold
braid and peaked cap.
“Ahoy, there! Strangers, eh? I’ve
been watching you.”
“Well, Captain Slack, how are you?
I’m a Piro man, at least I used to stay
in Piro for my holidays. This is my
wife, a Kino girl. I’ve brought a couple
of bottles.”
“I can’t say I remember either of you.
But then I made the crossing so many
times with strangers and all, it’s not to
be wondered at. I’ll drink to your good
health. Missus, with pleasure. It was
good of you to look up the old salt.”
They were soon comfortably seated in
deck-chairs and the Captain brought out a
couple of glasses. “Come the dog-watch.
Missus, at five to' four. I’ll go into the
galley and make a pot of tea.” The
little boy regarded him with disfavor.
“Wheresa werry?”
“Well, here we are again, Captain!
Cheers! So they call the place New
Avalon now?”
“Yes,” said the Captain, sipping his
beer. “There’s been a lot of changes in
a little while. I left the sea when the
bridge went up. I knew the time had
come for me to retire and become a
landlubber. But the Road Board has lost
a lot of revenue, I can tell you. I keep
watch day after day, just for amusement-
like, and many a time I’ve counted no
less than twenty service-cars, more on
race days, and anything from two to three
hundred other vehicles. Think of it!
Twenty service-cars at”-
“Wheresa werry?”
“Five-bob return equals five pounds,
say two hundred and forty miscellaneous
vehicles at half a crown single equals
thirty pounds. Thirty-five pounds a day!
Given away! Yes, siree, they just give it
away! The Road Board should have
kept the toll”
“Wheresa werry?”
“But if there was no bridge, Captain
Slack, the cars would still take the detour,
wouldn’t they?”
“I daresay they would. It don’t matter
to me. It’s none of my affair. They
didn’t drive me away like they did the
larks”
“Wheresa werry?”
k'T'HE larks couldn’t stand the blast-
-1 ing they made to put in the piles—
they left the place. But I stayed. I’d had
enough of the sea, though. Fifty years
of it I had, man and boy. Fifty years,
man and boy, I crossed and recrossed that
river. I could write a book about my
experiences. Runaway couples and
smugglers no end, and I can tell you”
“Wheresa werry?”
“I did my duty night and day. Many
a time in the dead of night in the middle
of winter I’ve been called out by a
husband from Kino crossing to get the
doctor from the cop,st, and I never charged
him a bean. No, I always said”
“Wheresa werry?”
“Don’t offer me filthy lucre for that.
I’m Only after toll on motor-cars and the
like. I’d start up the engine and have
the doctor across in two ticks. I was kind
of used to living on the old ship”
“Wheresa werry?”
“Never a storm broke over us moored
in the river, but what I didn’t think we’d
both end up in Davy Jones’s locker-like.
If you know what I mean, being a
nautical man, I use nautical terms. She
was old and rotten, a tub, that’s all, an
old tub, her planks bound together with
a lick of paint and tar, worm holes all
over her”
“Wheresa werry?”
“But we made port together to the
end. I never lost a cargo, not one.”
“Wheresa werry?”
“For Pete’s sake. Missus, what’s the
matter with that boy? Does he”-
“No,” said Shirley hastily. “It’s be-
cause we kept telling him about the ferry.
He can’t help it. He gets words on the
brain. He wants to ride on the old
barge.”
Captain Slack thoughtfully polished
one of the buttons on his coat with his
sleeve. Then he placed his peaked cap on
the child’s head. “Come, young man,
I’ll show you my ship. Along the com-
panionway, Missus, don’t bump your
head.”
His house was fitted with portholes for
windows, and there were brass railings,
an anchor for a doorstop, a barometer
and pictures of sailing vessels on the
walls. There was also an enlarged photo-
graph of Captain Slack in his uniform.
It was not a poor man’s house.
OUTSIDE, in the back garden, lay the
Tortoise. It seemed to have shrunk
considerably. The little cabin was still
there and parts of the cable. The engine
was polished and greased, and when the
Captain started it up it purred strangely
and then raced madly. “I couldn’t part
from her,” he said with an artificial sob.
“Man and boy for fifty-odd years I trod
this old deck”
“Wheresa werry?”
It was the child’s last stand, and he
stuck out his lower lip. Then he gave
three little hiccups and gave in. A sleep-
ing kitten distracted his attention and he
picked it up, squeezing it against his
chest. He was sick of whining ; he knew
that he had been cheated out of some-
thing. He could not put into words the
irritation he felt, but at least the kitten
was alive, warm and comforting,
“I worked her hard,” the Captain said,
“but she was always sweet and easy;
she’d rise to any sea as comfortable as
a duck.”
When they were leaving he earnestly
advised them to put the boy to sea.
“Make a man of him. There’s nothing
like a sailor’s life to rub the corners off
a lad.”
“Aye, aye, sir,” said Doc. “We’ll
think about it, won’t we, Shirl?”
She extracted the choking kitten.
“You’d make a good sailor, wouldn’t
you, pet?”
There was no Kino. There was no
Piro. The spots where they had spent
some of their happiest years had been
blotted out of the world.
Even the memory of Kinopiro would
soon pass away, since it lived only in the
recollections of few who cared to remem-
ber it. What its past history was, what
tribe of Maoris had given it the unlovely
name, would never be known,
THEY were silent until the car passed
the board which said “Goodbye to
New Avalon,” then Shirley half-turned
her head.
“I told you I once saw six cars on the
Tortoise. He must have made a packet,
the old bore. Still, I can’t help liking
Captain Slack in spite of the nautical
twist to his tongue. What is your humble
opinion. Doctor? Is he in a bad way?”
“Of course not. He’s all shipshape.
He’s just shooting at stars.”
“Well,” she said, hugging the now
drowsy child, “he might miss his aim,
but at least he shoots higher than if he
aimed at the mud-flats. In future will
you please introduce your wife as a
New Avalon girl?”
UNCLE
By N.Q.
MY Uncle is a realist and a
romanticist. But before this
paradox is explained I will de-
scribe him more simply as a
canefarmer. He had bought a cane-farm
in the north when this century was in its
period of infancy and the dicky Ford
was just staggering the impressionable
world with its amazing speed of fifteen
miles an hour. He had tended to his
hundred-odd acres with the same loving
attention as a horticulturist tends to his
beloved flowers. He w r as a farmer of
infinite energy.
When a drought came along and his
stunted, miserable cane looked as though
it were going to disappear back into the
earth from which it had sprung, my Uncle
wore an air of tension that became him.
He was a serious canefarmer ; at times
such as these you felt that if the mere act
of willing rain could produce a rainstorm
then the entire north would be inundated
by a mighty deluge willed by Uncle.
To explain his success as a farmer you
had to know that Uncle had taught him-
self to feel as the cane felt. Having
learned its psychology he knew when the
grass was too high, or when the time was
ripe for throwing fertiliser, or when the
rats were just about to come in droves to
ravage the cane. It was a lucrative form
of empathy, and its results were as weird
as those of telepathy.
The neighboring farmers marvelled at
his insight and called it “uncanny in-
tuition.”
“Intuition!” my Uncle snorted in-
dignantly. “The trouble is the fools
haven’t got an ounce of commonsense
between ’em.”
UNCLE was tall, like the Trojan cane
he grew, and thickset, like his
Badila. When it was time to work he
was a cane-farmer of infinite energy.
He was a realist in the sense that grow-
ing rich crops of sugar-cane was his one
and only concern while the rest of life was
insignificant. From day to day he toiled
strenuously, whether he was hoeing, scari-
fying the soil or ploughing. He always
found something to do, and he did it
with all his heart. His farm-hands had
to be sturdy men to keep up with him.
But when the wet season began, usually
in February, he shook off his zeal as easily
as a horse shakes off the flies that irritate
its skin. The transformation was remark-
able and even alarming. It alarmed
Auntie the first time she observed it. They
had been married only six months, and
she had come to understand and respect
his intense preoccupation with his cane.
Then, one night, just before a terrific
storm broke. Uncle came into the kitchen
where she was preparing supper. To
Aunt’s astonishment he gave her a re-
sounding kiss on the cheek and waltzed
her around the room. He was as happy
as a schoolboy at the commencement of
his holidays. Her first thought was that
he had at last succumbed to the fierce
heat of the sun. (She hated the heat of
the north. And she would go out to
work each morning without a hat.)
At supper he was lighthearted and
frivolous and even gay. He told her
funny stories that brought tears of mirth
to her eyes; and when she was having
her cup of tea after supper he passed her
the sugar-bowl with a cavalier’s grace and
charm. She had only seen him like this
once before. That was on the occasion
when she had said yes to him and no to
Charlie Andrews. Charlie Andrews was
Uncle’s only enemy, and Uncle had been
tickled to death by the thought of Aunt
accepting him and refusing Charlie.
Next day the rain fell intermittently.
It continued to fall throughout the night.
It kept on raining throughout the next
day and the day after that. The wet
season had begun. It was the time when
farmers and farm-hands sat together
swapping yams, or worked in their sheds.
amidst that unceasing rain, repairing their
farm implements. It did not take long for
Auntie to fathom out that merry mood of
Uncle’s. She saw it as an attitude;
“The wet season is here. I’ve done my
best for the cane, and now to hell with it
—l’m going to loaf! ”
And loaf he did. From the local School
of Arts library he brought home a pile
of books that would have dismayed a
Crichton, however admirable. He made
himself comfortable in a huge armchair
that, big as he was, almost swallowed him.
With his pipe and tobacco within easy
reach, he began to read with gusto.
Dumas, Balzac and Scott were his
favorites, and of these he liked Dumas
best. He became a romanticist.
He transported himself on to the world
of romance; he was the swashbuckling
D’Artagnan, vying his sword against that
of the best swordsmen in France ; he was
an arrogant D’Artagnan, ever ready to
answer an insolence with a sword-thrust;
he was a smooth, diplomatic D’Artagnan,
preventing a scandal that might well mean
the ruin of France, but always he was a
musketeer, strutting through his perilous
life with a nonchalance that bewildered
his friends and exasperated his enemies.
Just as easily he played the roles of
Quentin Durward and Rob Roy, and
many a woody glade rang with his fierce
Highland curses.
All this time the rain kept drubbing
on the roof. Aunt went about her
domestic cares stolidly. The sight of
Uncle ensconced in his huge armchair,
turning over page after page and reading
“as though his life depended upon it,”
amused her. Sometimes she had to dis-
turb him. The stock of firewood was
getting low or some friend had braved
the rain to come and have a yarn with
him. Uncle resigned himself to the in-
terregnum and set his book down with a
sigh. He rose to replenish the firewood
or to yarn with his friend, but his eyes
were still bright from the .adventures he
had experienced in France and Scotland,
Though he was engrossed in his read-
ing, each morning, after breakfast, he
made it a habit to go out to the verandah
to look at his farm. The house stood on
a hill, and from it you could see the
whole of his farm and much of the “sur-
rounding scenery,” as Uncle called it
when he was working. Part of the farm
was bounded by a river, so that the posi-
tion of the house made it safe against
the great floods that were not rare in
the north. From the verandah He studied
the effects the rain had made on his cane.
He would rejoice on the progress the
Badila had made, or frown as to why
the Trojan had not made appreciable
changes in height with all that water feed-
ing it. But he shrugged his shoulders
indifferently. He could do nothing for
the backward Trojan, and he returned to
his sofa and the world of romance.
| WENT to yesterday. Aunty
' received me with a cup of tea and a
plate piled high with hot, freshly-made
buttered scones.
“How’s Uncle?” I asked after eyeing
the scones appreciatively.
“Oh, not bad,” Aunt replied. “Getting
ready for work, you know.”
The rains had ceased, and it was clear
that the wet season was over. The cane
was a rich, dark-green color, and between
the rows and amidst the stools the grass
was high and thick. The earth was still
too muddy to be scarified, but a hoe
could do much good.
There was a sound of heavy footsteps
from the sitting-room and Uncle came
into the kitchen. He looked very healthy.
“Oh, hello,” he said, noticing me. He
wore a pair of shabby khaki trousers
and an old patched blue shirt. His feet
were in sandshoes that evidently had
seen better days. He came up to the
table and picked up one of the scones.
“You going back to town later?” he
inquired after the usual conventional
pleasantries.
I told him I was. He nodded and re-
turned to the sitting-room. When I had
despatched the fifth scone and was on my
sixth he re-entered the kitchen with a
huge parcel which he deposited on the
table.
“Books,” he said. “Take these
damned books back to the library, will
you? They’re ruining my eyesight and
I’ve got some work to do.”
I watched him as he left the house. He
picked up a hoe that was leaning against
the side of the house and swung it round
so that it rested on his shoulder. He
walked down the path that leads from
the house on the hill to the tractor-shed
below. Before him the cane looked like
a broad green sea in the bright sunshine
of the day. The breezes passing over it
formed little rolling waves that ran back-
wards and forwards on its surface like
piano keys running with a pianist’s
fingers.


RONRUKON-TIPPtn
ENGINES
r.
vr*%i
'"/h
EXPERIENCE
-mans greatest asset m
every fieMofendeavour!
There is no substitute for this vital requisite oi
success, and Knowledge, born oi Experience, is
the priceless asset upon which Ronaldson-Tippetl
Engines ore built.
From blue-print to testing block every power unit
of Ronaldson-Tippett manufacture reflects the
exacting standards which govern each step in its
production. Thus many users rely implicitly upon
the wisdom of the oft-repeated Ronaldson-Tippett
slogan: "It pays to buy the right engine first!"
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT LTD.
Head Office: Bgllarat, Victoria. Showrooms: 628 Bourke St., Mel-
bourne. JV./S.lf. Distributors: Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Ltd., 42
Bridge St., Sydney. Q’land Distributors: Ronaldson Tippett (Qld.)
Pty., Ltd., Scottish Union House, 127 Eagle St., Brisbane.
llldd II- MOSQIUNOU
ONE THING IS CERTAIN
When shearing is over and the last load moves away from the shed, do you
know how much your wool will bring when the bidding starts ?
One thing is certain. A.M.L.&F.’s wise valuing, careful lotting and attractive
display, combined with the expert and experienced service of the A.MX.&F.
auctioneer, will draw the highest possible bid for your wool.
Small clip or large, consign it to A.M.L.&F., the organisation with 85 years of
wool-selling experience.
• 85 Years in the Service of the Man on the Land.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance Coy. Ltd.
Inc. in England in 1863.
4 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches at Newcastle, Wagga, Moree, Henty and Hay.
A 19.22
; v-
Sara
m
ordon's
Statute Supfamjß
By Appointment
Cin Distillers
to H.M. King George VI
QTanqueray. Cordon &Co Ltd
THE MAN ON THE LAND "DON'T WORRY,I'M SENDING IT TO FRAZCOS
BEEF CATTLE AT SYDNEY SHOW.
“Bulago”: Entries eclipsed
records in every breed, and there
was a general impression of high
quality. Limitation of entries to
three in any class from one
breeder may have been respon-
sible for less tail than usual. One
or two well-known studs were
absent, and several were not
there in anything like their usual
strength. But it was heartening
to note the number of new ex-
hibitors and the high standard of
their animals, evident in the
honors they gained at their first
Sydney Show.
The English judges of Here-
fords and Aberdeen-Angus im-
pressed by the thoroughness of
their work. The experience
gained by their Australian
associate judges will pay divi-
dends in future, and the R.A.S.
policy of affording this oppor-
tunity to younger men cannot be
too highly commended.
Several classes, particularly in
Shorthorns and Herefords, com-
prised so many entries that the
judges were faced with an un-
enviable task in reducing them
to comfortable numbers. This
was tedious to watch and delayed
the schedule so much that Here-
ford judging could not be com-
pleted in one day. A preliminary
judging is worth consideration.
It would shorten the judging
period, reduce the strain on the
final judges and sustain spectator-
interest.
The Shorthorns were a fine lot,
and colors were never better.
Coonong maintained its reputa-
tion with a team to attract atten-
tion anywhere. Red Leader —a
rich dark red bull by Calrossie
Moonshine (imp.) took supreme
honors. Rosicrucian, a deep
square roan, by the same sire,
was junior champion. W, R.
Raper’s Calool Legislator had
bad luck in meeting such strong
opposition, but there was no
doubt about his title to the re-
serve ribbon. Stirling Churchill,
junior reserve, was second to the
junior champion in a very strong
class of 28 youngsters.
In Shorthorn cows smaller
classes and mixed quality were
more evident, but the tops were
excellent. Class awards were
well distributed, but Coonong
predominated in the champion-
ships. Dauntless Bellona Lady,
a beautiful red cow from Vic-
toria, which was champion, is
by a Coonong bull. Coonong
Maryland, a square little roan
heifer which won junior honors,
should make a name for herself.
Turanville, Woomargama, Ham-
bledon and Kywanna paraded
very good teams, and gained
their share of the ribbons.
Poll Shorthorns continue to
close the gap that has separated
them from the hornies,; in fact
the improvement is so pro-
nounced that the tops of the pplls
could take their place in any
Shorthorn company. The tail,
which has always been a feature
of these modern breeds, was less
noticeable and the general im-
provement in colors was excel-
lent. No other breeds have estab-
lished such a high standard in
such a short time as the Poll
Shorthorns and Poll Herefords
of Australia. Their breeders can
be justly proud of their achieve-
ments.
This year the ranks were
swelled by new exhibitors, who
scored remarkably well. Last
year’s roan junior 'champion—
Bogan Edward —at just over two-
years-old showed remarkable
scale and quality and was cham-
pion this time. A red Merryville
bull was runner-up. Two showy
young Antrim bulls, first and
second in the 15-18-months class,
fought out the junior champion-
ship and beat all-comers.
In the females Netherby (Q.)
scored well and Queensland did
well in the championships
Netherby winning open and
junior while Prospect took both
reserves.
Hereford exhibitors were
numerous, classes were big—s 7
bulls in the 15-18 months —and
general high quality was evi-
denced in the wide distribution
of awards. Although there were
no outstanding bulls there were
many very good ones. The
Windsor team was up to expec-
tations, and although it did not
produce another Puritan, his
stock through Lancaster were
hard to beat. Dalkeith scored
well, while Bexley, Colly Creek,
Yarrandabbie, Cuppacumbalong,
Timor, Golf Hill, Myall and
South Boorook kept up their
reputations. The influence of
• sires imported since the war was
noticeable, Windsor dominated
the male championships—Byron
taking both senior and junior
ribbons, while a full-brother, a
year older, was reserve. Junior
reserve went to South Boorook.
Hereford cows were very good,
and a wave of promising
youngsters gained the judge’s
approval. Yarrandabbie Wood-
bine (imp. in dam) claimed junior
and senior championships and
another importation belonging to
Dalkeith—Sugwas Laura 6th —
was reserve. Junior reserve went
to a very classy heifer from
Windsor. The Yarrandabbie
youngster is a beautiful calf —
only eight months old—and is
probably the youngest animal
ever to gain such honors. The
judge must have thought very
highly of it when he gave the
supreme award to such an im-
mature heifer.
Poll Herefords continue to
show that improvement that is
steadily bringing them closer to
the horned cattle. New exhibi-
tors did remarkably well. How-
ever, in the final count, the
Milton cattle retained their
ascendancy. The four bulls
which faced the judge for
supreme honors represented as
many different types. The bal-
ance swayed between Success
Colly, whose scale and years
were pitted against the almost
perfect Milton youngster, fresh
from winning the junior tricolor.
The judge decided in favor of
the young bull; junior reserve
went to Munorhara Monogram.
In the female classes the
Milton cattle were even more
outstanding, and final honors
went to two heifers from that
.stud. Milton Hyacinth 4th was
senior and junior champion,
Milton Peach 4th —by the same
imported sire—took both re-
serves.
Of all the breeds none has
shown less fluctuation over the
years in numbers or in support
than Devons. Today, as in the
past, the backbone of, the section
is Havilah. This year, however,
they had to cede the bull cham-
pionship once again to last year’s
winner—Ban Ban Searchlight.
He has shown steady improve-
ment in the 12 months and
thoroughly’ deserved the honor.
His back is broad and level as a
table, he is particularly good
underneath and he has a typical
Devon head. Ban Ban, Glen
Moan, Table Top and Aubyn
featured in the prize-list, but the
Havilah cattle dominated the
scene, winning bull reserve,
senior and junior reserve, and all
female championships.
Aberdeen - Angus enthusiasts
provided a fine muster in
numbers and quality and awards
were widely distributed. Several
newcomers joined the faithful
band of exhibitors, one Vic-
torian stud winning male reserve
championship with Battery Park
Rattler 2nd. Wallah and Cavan
were not represented.
Booroomooka did not have
many entries, but its few
were conspicuous. Booroomooka
Regal, a blue ribbomier of last
year and junior championship at
Brisbane, proved his worth by
annexing the male championship.
Last year’s champion cow,
Booroomooka Noon, returned
with a good sort of heifer calf at
foot and won premier honors
again.
The 15 -18 - months class
brought out a collection of the
finest youngsters seen together
for a long time. The first and
second prizewinners from
Nailsworth and Abington—even-
tually took junior and reserve
championships. Kahlua had a
strong team, and in one bull-class
its three entries took first, second
and third ribbons. A nice
Kahlua heifer —Tarcutta —chal-
lenged Narrangullen for the
junior championship, but had to
be content with reserve. General
impression of the Aberdeen-
Angus section was that they were
evener in type and quality, with
far less tail than usual.
Several newcomers brought
increased competition into the
Red Poll section, and one of
these —W. K. Cowlishaw —did
well on his first appearance in
Sydney, annexing the female
junior championship with a
shapely heifer —Arrow Ballerina
—in addition to other awards.
The Bundaleer Polls collected
most of the ribbons, including
three bull tricolors, the reserve
going to Flagstaff, and three
female championships. Several
entries showed a lack of prepara-
tion that robbed them of oppor-
tunities to score.
This year’s Red Polls show a
definite swing in type from the
Red Poll of a decade ago. The
light-red milking type has given
way to a darker-colored beef
type. This is all to the good as
far as appearance goes, provided
milking quality is retained, but
some breeders will have to be
careful or they will find them-
selves with a new breed of dark-
tan Polls.
POPULAR DAIRY BREEDS.
“Rooster”: Sydney Show
showed that, as in the Melbourne
Show, certain breeds are gain-
ing in popularity. Victorians
were well represented among the
prizewinners—over 200 gaining
awards in the first two days.
Most notable success was that of
R. Smith’s Friesian bull.
The Jersey still holds pride of
place in the dairying industry.
The comparatively unknown
Friesians, however, are definitely
challenging for dairy production.
This breed was first imported to
Australia in 1898, but was slow
to acclimatise. It was at one-
time supposed that the Friesian
was suited only for rich, heavy
lands. They are actually very
hardy and can adapt themselves
well to varying climatic condi-
tions. But they are not early-
maturing animals, and heifers
from them should not have their
first calf till they are two and
a half years old.
A good average herd of
Friesians will yield over 1000
gallons of milk per beast annu-
ally, the fat test averaging 3.4
per cent. Incidentally the world’s
champion milk-producer for all
breeds is the American Friesian
cow “Segis Pietertje Prospect,”
who produced 37,381.41 b. milk in
one year. Her 'butterfat was
1158.951 b.
The only two points that the
Jersey has over the Friesian and
the A.I.S. are (1) high-testing, and
(2) they conform ideally in con-
tour and shape to the dairy type.
The record for this breed was
held, in 1934, by “Richmond
Posy sth,” an Australian Jersey
owned by the N.S.W.
ment of Agriculture, with a yield
of 1292.211 b. of butterfat, aver-
age fat test being 5.5 per cent.
This was beaten in 1937 by a
Canadian cow named “Brampton
Basilua,” who produced
1312.81 b. of butterfat.
The Jersey, however, is sensi-
tive. Thp “blue-bloods” of the
cattle world, they are prone to
give up weakly in adverse condi-
tions. Because of this, outside
of the showrings, they are wan-
ing in popularity, although still
favorites with butter-factories
because of their high butterfat
percentages. Their records are
well below those held by the
Friesian and A. 1.5., as is their
average annual production. At
the present time this writer
favors the A. 1.5., if only because
when they need culling out it is
easy to fatten them for beefers.
“Tilba Boy”: Jerseys, as usual,
were most numerous and, like
the rest, reflected the good season
—some of them were even a
shade too fat. Top awards went
mostly to old-established studs,
and the N.S.W. Government
herds did very well. Rowntree’s
Belgonia Sunray was champion
bull, Chegwidden’s Sunnyridge
Oxford Loveliness champion
cow, reserves going to Graham
and Armstrong’s Navua Sociable
Sultan and Kameruka’s K.
Hediwin’s Velvetta. Velvetta
won the five-years-and-over
butterfat prize, the under-five-
years prize going to Yanco
Faithful. Kameruka collected
for best cow or heifer bred in
Australia by the exhibitor.
The Facey farm took the
Ayrshire .bull championships
with Glengowrie Baron Again
and Flash Baron ; Mclntosh
Bros.’ Nether Craig Barbara was
champion cow, C. J. Clark’s
Epping Forest Grade in reserve.
The Facey cattle came from the
Blue Gum Park stud in the s.-e.
of South Australia, won first-
prizes with four bulls from the
same cow and lined three of
them up for the championships.
The champion cow came from
Scotland.
The Friesians were an attrac-
tive lot, and the old-established
Nowra breeder, V. J. Lamond,
had champion and reserve cows.
The champion bull. Wattle Bank
Segis Woodcrest, came from the
Gippsland stud of K. W. Smith
and Son. The reserve was a
Moss Vale bull, shown by T. L.
Furness.
The Victorian judge was not
enthusiastic over the Guern-
seys, though the tops were
good. The “golden breed” has
never taken on much in N. S.
Wales. E. E. Cooke’s Moongi
Pleasant Laddie was champion
bull, with J. C. Mclntosh’s
Moongi Brightest Boy in reserve.
Top cow was C. W. Scott’s Glen-
oak Morning Glory, J. A.


“Vbtnovi • ” Worm Kerned v
/fs smp/y £ fmffer of
mi /
.... s
life 1
m
m'zm
_ w F *-vf '*■•• -fi"
v ♦
.., fafcwo/ ccooow//
Worm infestation too long neglected means weakened sheep,
heavy flock losses. When worm gets into your flock it’s simple
economy to drench right away with “Phenovis”, the effective
gastro-intestinal worm remedy.
The NEW “Phenovis” Powder
Mixes easily.
Forms a stable fluid suspension.
Flows easily through the drenching gun.
Ensures the most accurate dosing of stock.
m
FROM STORES, MERCHANTS AND PASTORAL HOUSES
For immediate delivery contact
Famous British
ENGINES
are
NOW
AVAILABLE
.at
REDUCED
PRICES
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY. LTD.
’PHONE: MA 6311 7-11 MARKET ST., SYDNEY
SECTIONS
SPRAY
mm
wm
&mmk
HHMH
M 4
■■ll
- -
■
■
m
: ; :v..
m
u
Here's what you gain
Surging further ahead in the spray irrigation
field, RAINBOW now introduce ALUMINIUM
Spray Sections. This is just another reason why you
should instal RAINBOW SPRAY IRRIGATION . . . the
system already renowned for such features as the combined
outlet and hydrant, flexible couplings and improved spray-
heads. Rainbow is the only system with a 48-ft. coverage.
ONLY HALF THE WEIGHT:
Rainbow’s new Aluminium Sections are approximately half the weight of normal
piping. This means a further cut In time and labour.
SEAMLESS. 24-FT. SPRAY SECTIONS:
Frictional loss in RAINBOW Aluminium Sections has been reduced by at least
10%. They may be used for all water purposes and are supplied with flexible
couplings or non-flexible joins.
COSTS STILL LOW:
Though the cost of a new RAINBOW Aluminium plant is naturally higher than
previous Rainbow systems —because of the many RAINBOW advantages—-the cost
of our complete plant—WlTH ALUMINIUM SECTIONS —is still comparable with
other systems. Longer life and labour-saving features cost you less in the long
run. Remember —irrigation is essential—spray irrigation is best—and RAINBOW
make the best spray irrigation.
mt
M
M
: 3
IMPROVED SPRAY HEADS.
FLEXIBLE COUPLINGS.
fds
RAINBOW
ua*
60/83.5
83 Pitt Street, Sydney. 'Phone: BU 3425
Queensland: WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LTD.,
102-124 Melbourne St., Sth. Brisbane. Victoria:
C. BEAUMONT. 64 King St.. Melbourne—MU 5271.
South Australia: RALPH CURRY, 24 Light Sq..
Adelaide. 'Phone: C 1065.
COMBINED OUT-
LET & HYDRANT.
STURDY STANDS.
Murray’s Moongi Miss Pearl in
reserve.
“Darbalara”: It will be re-
membered in Illawarra annals as
Alne Bank’s year. It is a long
time since one A.I.S. breeder an-
nexed both male and female
championships at Sydney ; G. E.
Chittick did it this year, and
backed it up with a female re-
serve and a long fist of ribbons
and special prizes. The absence
of Tabbagong and Dudgeon
cattle was noticeable, but com-
petition between North and
“Better hurry — milking-time in half an hour."
South Coast cattle was as keen
as ever.
The good season was reflected
in the general appearance of the
cattle, young stock in particular
showing better all-round condi-
tion than usual. Several special
classes deserve commendation
for the manner in which they
bring out the general standard of
a herd as compared with that of
the individual animal. One of
these, calling for a bull (over two
years), two bulls (under two) and
six cows all bred by one ex-
hibitor, gave a more reliable
indication of general quality than
any single animal class, not ex-
cepting the championships.
Reserve bull champion was
Kiltankin Jester; Alne Bank
Glen repeating last year’s per-
formance by retaining the cham-
pionship. Glen was shown in
splendid condition, and in spite
of the work he has done during
the year, carries his age well.
Alne Bank’s most meritorious
win, however, was in the female
championships, won by mother
and daughter—two beautiful
cows of the famous Dorothy
family, the reserve being sired by
the Show champion, A. B. Glen.
Sales at auction were disap-
pointing, a very high percentage
of offerings being passed in or
failing to get a bid. Some
breeders send cattle to Sydney
whose destination should be the
local saleyards. Generally, the
quality of offerings was only
fair. Top price for bulls was
87 guineas for Alne Bank
Monaro, a well-bred three-year-
old. Cows were not in good de-
mand, and prices at auction
ranged from 40 to 50 guineas
although better prices were ob-
tained later at private sales.
For Black-poll Breeders.
“He-Ne”: Breeders of
Aberdeen-Angus cattle in Aus-
tralia were given some breeding
hints by the president of the
Aberdeen - Angus Society of
Great Britain, Sir Alfred Good-
son, who judged the breed at
Sydney Show. He said that
though he had seen many lovely
Angus cattle here he had noticed
a certain amount of harshness of
hair and flesh, which some
people attributed to climatic con-
ditions. Sir Alfred doubts this
and said the hardening could
come from feeding methods. He
strongly advocated soft feeding.
He said flesh can be softened by
soft feed, and breeders in Britain
got good results by feeding por-
ridge to show cattle. Another
hint he gave was that local
breeders should see that Angus
cattle carry their hindquarters a
little lower, especially the bulls.
Some Australian bulls had a
lightness of flank. This was
causing worry in Britain, too,
where the same weakness was
noticed.
Abortion in Ewes.
“A.M.M.”: Probably the
biggest predisposing cause is
poor nutrition. It can be poor
in either quality or quantity. The
ewe is unable to obtain sufficient
of the foods essential for herself
and the unborn lamb.
Management when handling
ewes in poor condition is im-
portant. A factor which can pre-
cipitate trouble is internal injury
caused by rough handling.
Careful handling is essential
when they are being mustered,
crutched, drenched or vaccinated.
Fit flocks can stand up to
rougher handling than those in
poor condition.
Everything possible should be
done to keep pregnant ewes in
good condition, Two-tooths
need more care in feeding, as
they still have to develop and
mature. All ewes should have a
gradual build-up during the last
two months of pregnancy. This
will prevent abortions-to a large
extent. During bad weather
extra feed should be given and
ewes should not be kept in or
around yards longer than neces-
sary.
Don’t breed from under-
developed two-tooth ewes; it is
probably better to mate them as
four-tooths to give them a chance
to develop.
Beating Codlin-moth.
“Derwent”: A Tasmanian
orchardist, E. Latham, of Lindis-
farne, after experiments over a
number of years, has devised,a
scheme which catches big hatils
of codlin-moth at night and also
puts thousands of other moths
out of commission. His appara-
tus consists of a number of 25
c.p. electric lights on power
leads up to 200 ft. long run from
the apple-packing shed through
the orchard. The lights are
spaced at 15ft. intervals, accord-
ing to the density of the moths,
and the globes, hanging from
branches, allow the light to fall
above a large tray of water on
a trestle 4ft. above ground. The
water is filmed with oil so that
the moths are held by it when
they flutter into the bath. Up
to 100 codlins are caught in a
night over a section. By cap-
turing the pest before it lays its
eggs damage to fruit by grubs is
considerably lessened. Latham
claims that the destruction of
even one codlin prevents the pro-
duction of possibly hundreds.
He gets his biggest bags between
dusk and midnight.
Hints for the Farm.
“A.M.M.”: A simple and
effective cure for necrotic ulcers
in pigs is made up of the follow-
ing, two or three applications
being necessary. Remove scabs
with brush, soap and water.
Cover the sores with a mixture
of bluestone (one part) and
Stockholm tar (two parts). Most
important, the living quarters
must be cleaned up and kept
clean.
“Myrr”: For wood 1 i c e
(slaters) sprinkle in their haunts
a contact dust made up of lib.
of pyrethrum powder and 41b.
of kaolin. Alternative control
can be had with a mixture of
metaldehyde and bran. Take
joz. of metaldehyde (finely
powdered), 11b, of bran mixed
dry and then make into a
crumbly mash with water. Place
the bait in small heaps wherever
the insects congregate, but take
care with the metaldehyde —it’s
poisonous.
“Billjim”: Where paddocks
are badly infested with onion-
weed, disc after early rains and
drill in oats at the rate of two
bushels to the acre. This will
ensure a competitive stand and
give good grazing.
To make roughcast
stick to the smooth surface of
fibrolite puddle some raw cement
and' paint over the surface.
Roughcast on this before it
dries. Use a strong mixture,
such as three-in-one sand and
cement.
“Radian”: When about to
screw studs into a casting—
cylinder-head studs for example
—make certain that holes are
clear to the bottom and free of
water and oil. A stud forced
down on foreign matter, parti-
cularly liquid, can easily distort
or crack the casting.
“C.A.A.”: Protein is an essen-
tial constituent in stock food, but
too much of the hay and silage
fed on farms is of poor quality
and contains less than 2 p.c.
protein, as against 8 p.c, in good
stuff. To secure higher protein-
content hay cut at the right time,
cure quickly and store to pre-
serve the green color.
“He-Ne”: Agricultural in-
structors stationed in the N.S.W.
Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area
complain about the use of arti-
ficial fertilisers. They say too
much attention is paid to applica-
tion of them, in preference to
consideration of soil preparation
and the use of organic manures.
The best is not being obtained
from vegetable crops because of
lack of proper consideration to
soil requirements under irriga-
tion. Farming is not so simple a
thing that it can always be suc-
cessfully done out of a bag.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
mJhu MU,,
- , ’ A
Hi '^{f|}|(
‘wn mi Kfmiii
Hill Hi |*m 11
U
m
JCSfSf
i
ROOM-ONLY RATES
Single Rooms—
From 8/- per night
Double Rooms—
From 15/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
“METROPOLE /'
Sydney.
Telephones:
8W2061 (9 lines)
GIOBITE
TRAVEL CASES
They're lighter, stronger, longer-
lasting. That's why a Globito
costs less in the long tun.
Mode by
FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
Which Truck
Will be Away First?
MAN
A
MAN
"B"
■i
O
20 fh-
o
O
o
-eft-'!
This far fetched example of inefficiency
shows how time 9 effort and output can he lost
One of the most serious problems
now facing Australia is how to in-
crease production. Shortages of
many essential goods and today’s
prevalent high prices are largely
due to this trouble.
Though the main reasons for our
production troubles are found in
shortages of manpower, manufac-
turing equipment and imported raw'
materials, there is another important
contributing factor which can be
remedied if every Australian will
help: Increased efficiency will have
an enormously beneficial effect on
supplies.
MORE EFFICIENCY NEEDED
Efficiency generally means using
your head as well as your hands.
"Man A” in the far fetched example
of inefficiency shown above, is making
the job harder for himself. By back-
ing his truck to the position used by
"Man B,” he would save himself
hundreds of steps, do his job with a
lot less effort and finish it in half the
time.
In most factories, there are many
similar ways of speeding up pro-
duction, though they may not be so
easy to "spot” as in the diagrams
above. But a little careful thought,
a little close co-operation between
management and men, a little extra
care and a little extra effort will have
tremendous results. In the case of
the individual, the extra effort will be
practically unnoticeable, but the com-
bined extra effort of millions will
have astounding results. It could end
many of today’s crippling shortages
and lead to stabilisation of prices.
YOU BENEFIT
Even if you leave Australia’s in-
terests out of the argument and look
at the whole matter from your own
point of view, you will readily see
that by being more efficient in your
own job and by promoting the same
idea among all your associates, you
have nothing to lose and much to gain.
DO A GOOD JOB
» • . tor Yourself and Australia
Authority* by thy Treasurtr of tho Commouwtaltk.
N 531.113.29
AIL-BRITISH
GIVES
PERSONALITY
TO YOUR
WRITING
%
THE POPULAR PEN
with the
MARVELLOUS NIB
Conway Stewart & Co. Ltd.,
London.
S. W. RAMSAY
i
BABY
LOVES
to revel In the delight*
foi cream-like lather of
Cotlenra Soap. . It
keeps his tenner skin
*-■ and ex-
One of the famous
trio-Cutlcara Soap.
Ointment and Tal-
cum Powder.
530
f soft
and velvety.
f
dsf
SINKER
By “COL M,”
VOU ask me why, at my
age, I have not learned to
swim ; you assert that I
should be ashamed of
myself—“ Anyone can swim if he
tries.”
Well, I have spent my life up
to date proving exactly the op-
posite. Go on, leave me here on
the sand, go leaping like an ele-
phant into the breakers ; come
back in five minutes stung by
bluebottles and I will tell you
why I’ve never learned to swim.
A few years ago one of my
best friends told me that there
was a method by which I could
teach myself to swim in exactly
ten minutes. He said that the
American Army had used it a
lot, and that it had been in-
vented by a Hawaiian. “Of
course,” he said, “you’ll be no
Johnny Weismuller the first
time, but you will be no longer
afraid.”
“Do you know,” he asked,
“that the human baby, helpless
as it is, can swim instinctively
until it is twenty-four hours old,
when it develops fear? That’s
what you have, old man —terror
of getting water up your nose
and down your throat. You’ve
got to grab that fear by the
horns.” He then explained the
steps in his ten-minute campaign,
and I told him I’d give it a try.
So on the following Saturday
afternoon, when I’d found, far
along the beach; a rock-pool
where I could be alone, I rested,
aground, in two feet of water.
The first two minutes of my
friend’s scheme were occupied in
taking deep breaths, holding the
nose, closing the eyes and push-
ing my face under water. He
had told me that although this
seemed silly it was sound
psychology.
For the next minute I per-
formed the same action with my
eyes open, and followed by
another minute’s dunking with-
out even holding the nose.
I paused for some breaths and
felt that at last I was getting
somewhere. I looked about me
and smiled back at the seagulls.
And when I noticed the face of
a small boy peering at me over
a rock I beamed at him. His
giggle penetrated, and although
I tried hard to ignore him and
to go on with my lessons, I
finally had to give in, and, stand-
ing up, I turned and faced him.
“If you don’t go away, little
boy,” I told him, “I will drown
you.”
His grin became malicious,
but he sped away down the
beach and left me to resume my
seat in the water and attempt to
pick up the threads.
The next minute’s work was
the hardest, for with my eyes
and nose wide open I had to
force my whole head under. I
found myself in a green world,
pleasant and soundless.
The final five minutes —float-
ing on my back and then on my
stomach, splashing with my legs
and then my hands, and finally
climbing, breathless but trium-
phant, out of the pool to pick
up my towel and turn back along
the beach.
Halfway I met the small boy
again, this time with his mother
and father, a well-built man of
fourteen stone or more.
“That’s him,” said the child.
“I only looked at him and he
jumped up and said he’d drown
me!”
While his father stood with his
arms folded, flexing his biceps,
the mother spoke to me. I finally
went my way, still attempting a
smile, still maintaining that I
hadn’t meant a word of it.
My path took me past another
rock-pool, much larger, nice and
shallow around the edges, a
sparkling temptation filled with
people.
I must have been in for half
an hour in water up to my chest,
bobbing like a contented cork
in the swell that came over the
breakwater, with my feet lifting
off the bottom and touching
down again.
The bottom disappeared.
Things happened too quickly to
remember the lessons —only to
surface, flay the arms, grab. My
hands hooked a solid object
which shrieked and came down
with me, and as I surfaced again
it gurgled. Strong arms seized
me from behind, spun me
around and something like a ton
of feathers brushed against my
chin.
Many witnessed my awakening.
Within the outer circle of mere
stickybeaks were the principals
of the drama. I saw the small
boy’s father, rage in his eyes,
struggling with two lifesavers
who held him back. Near him
was the beach-inspector, nod-
ding understandingly and taking
notes. A little further off was
the small boy’s mother, hori-
zontal like myself, and recover-
ing under artificial respiration.
And standing at my feet, re-
garding me with infinite glee,
was the small boy.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS, should be addressed to the Editor.
P.N.L.: No wonder she tilts her
pretty nose when you persist in
addressing her as “fair and gentle
maiden”... .H.O’L.: If that’s how
sunrise affects you, don’t get up so
early M.K.: That toothless ancient
with the pipe has called too many
times 8.C.: You can’t make a
poem out of a string of questions.
W.C.C.: “Should I send you
some more like this?” Not if you
have a spark of humanity in you
Bellerive: Pleased to meet your kind
spider:—
W.B.: “So far I have shown this
story only to my girl-friend.” Don’t
you love her any more?... .A.L.:
Since you sent no stamps with her,
Norah is in the basket P.G.McK.:
“The Uninvited Guest” was promptly
thrown out... .E.M.C.: Well, it’s
quite bad enough for an anthem
G.8.H.: Only when you get down to
cursing the shortage of beer do you
express yourself in an understandable
way C.F.F.: Dorothea Mackellar
was before you R.L.E.; “Seen at
Flemington” would make bookmakers
faint, horses bolt and punters rush
for the bar... .J. 8.; So many people
—in fiction —are slain with prize-
winning lottery tickets in their
pockets... .C.M.: Too many adjec-
tives, and it doesn’t get anywhere.
F.M.S.: So impressed by voice
crying “Give me back my nose-ring
that we pur'll in the next post....
8.M.: Why not try it as a script for a
radio-commercial? A.A.: Admired
unhappy lovers standing in the
picture-show for the National An-
them: “They would always
British, no matter what happened” —
a truly touching scene D.W.H.:
As Harry remarks on “the line-
breeding that will stabilise all the
nations,” “there’s a power of work
and breeding to be done before we
come to that.” So don’t waste time
writing about it... .E.L.H.S.; “There
was a ‘crack’ and the woman
dropped like a dead duck from the
skies.” Our retriever recovered the
corpse, which awaits collection.
J.McP.: A weary, down-at-heels
poem with a Latin title. Resembles a
Domain dosser with a brandmew
belltopper C.L.: On the samples
submitted have nothing to suggest
except that you should give up writing.
T.C.; We put it aside when we
ran into the sentence: “Fortunately
the conflagration was nipped in the
bud” R.M.A.: Your cake is not
exactly dough, but there is no icing
on it L.S.: Amiable story on a
fearfully overdone theme H.C.:
The violet is wilted, the triolet is
stilted, and the sonnet is too coarse.
Said a fly to a spider
“You’re out early today
On the alert for
Poor harmless prey.
I’m out of your range.
Get back to your lair.
I seek for my food,
You’re no good anywhere.”
“Be wise and float,’*
Was the spider’s reply,
“Out in the open
Where the breezes sigh.”


(Ct
A BRANDY
famous since 1858—
Tolley’s is a privilege
passed down through
generations—
mellowed to perfection—
magnificent to the last drop!
'A
*5
u-
special hospi
TOLLEY’S
SPECIAL so HOSPITAL
BRANDY
FAMOUS FOR 90 YEARS
HEW SOUTH WALES DISTRIBUTORS, TOOTH ft GO.. LIMITED
Special Offer/
BAZOR
WITH
Double Life
GEM Blades
Obtainable Everywhere.
COMPLETE
/
3
WITH
TH 2 BLADES
NEAT PLASTIC
IN
CASE
1
M
SS
irs THE WEIGHT BEHIND THE EDGE THAT
GIVES SMOOTHER. EASIER SHAVES
-25* .
SMOKE-OH
PLMM'S NO I SINK FOR WISE MCD
“The vice-president of the Planned
Parenthood Clinic in Pittsburgh, U.S.,
recently gave birth to triplets!”
— ‘‘World’s News.’ 1 ’
She probably faced the issue
with resignation.
+ 4*
“I offered to buy a ticket, and
went further by offering a donation
of 10s. 6d. —much more than the cost
of the tight—but it wasn’t accepted.”
—Sydney “Sun.”
So he was at a loose end.
+ + 4*
“Always match your nail lacquer
to your lipstick.”— Beauty note.
But make sure both are in
good taste.
“Women, especially, should make
a practice of laughing at themselves.”
— Woman’s paper.
To see a joke, some should
stand in front of a mirror
occasionally.
“ ‘Get out, do you hear me?’ she
almost screamed. Then, raising her
voice another couple of octaves, she
screamed ‘Get out’.”
—Magazine story.
She really hit the high note
this time.
Ladies Wasted.
“What have.our glamor girls to
look forward to when hotels are
crowded with beer-soaked individuals
who call themselves men?” asks a
writer.
A case of Beauty and the Brute
In modern form this seems to
be. If
Profits Jill nought that she’s cute
And sleek if Jack’s too “blind”
to see it.
P. O. M. C.
4* 4* 4*
“When is an area school not an
area school?” — “S. M. Herald.”
When it’s a solid construction,
•h •h
“Marriage in itself is women s
number-one occupation.”
— Woman’s paper.
For wives don’t have to work
for a boss.
“His suburb's blacked-out this morning.”
Getting Good Measure.
“The important disadvantage of
rain-making was the threat of legal
action from pastoralists who objected
to having ‘their’ clouds ‘milked’ for
the benefit of others.” — “S.M.H.”
When times are dry I’m not so
daft
As to engage in heavy graft
By building dams or scooping
tanks.
No, sir! I do quite nicely,
thanks
To modern science and its
scheme
C The answer to a farmer’s
dream)
Whereby dry-ice is sprinkled on
The passing clouds when months
have gone
Without the slightest indication
Of any real precipitation.
And if by law I’m disallowed
To milk at will a neighbor’s
cloud.
Am I discouraged, then, and
licked ?
Why, not at all! I’ve got them
tricked
For rounding up the clouds that
pass
I merely turn them out to grass.
D. H. E.
In a Manner of Speaking.
“But we marrieds know the reason
for this supposed running-down our
better-halves —to cover our real feel-
ings of lasting affection for each
other.” — Woman’s magazine.
Yesterday evening when I
came home tired from the office
after a particularly taxing day
my wife met me at the front
door as usual.. As I was about
to give her the customary per-
functory peck on the cheek she
hung a solid one on my kisser.
“Drinking again, eh. Horse-
face?” she cooed in dulcet tones.
“You know how I abominate
the stuff; and just the evening
when we have guests to dinner.”
In the dining-room two new
gossips of the wife were already
seated. “This,” she said, point-
ing to me with all the scorn of
voice and gesture of an old-time
actor, “is my husband. He can’t
do a thing about the house, but
he chain-smokes, drinks like a
fish and swears like a trooper.
He stays out late at the club
twice a week and never tires of
comparing my cooking with his
mother’s or singing the praises
of his secretary. And yet,
despite all this and the fact that
he snores and talks in his sleep,
I love him tenderly, and he does
me. Why, you are going to buy
me a lovely fur coat tomorrow,
aren’t you, skunk?”
BEET.
Experiment.
“Science gives this pressure-cooker
absolute safety.”— Advertisement.
For years content with cherry-
wine
That blew your valves but
tasted fine.
Aunt Alice bought a pressure-
cooker,
Six feet of tubing and a book o’
Rules that cover distillation.
Her ruby liquid poured in neat,
She clamped the lid, turned up
the heat;
Condenser arid decanter handy,
She cheered the first faint drops
of brandy,
Heard our warmest commenda-
tion.
Then everywhere a blast is felt.
The doors all bang, the windows
melt,
And with our senses shocked
and reeling,
Aunt Alice leaves us through the
ceiling.
Science claimed our last rela-
tion.
COL M.
No Mystery.
“A mysterious Soviet envoy called
General Malinin is reported to have
left for Washington on a special
mission. High U.S. and Soviet
officials have denied any knowledge
of him.”
A collection of reports and
authoritative opinions on the
alleged visit, given hereunder,
gives a clear picture of General
Malinin’s vital place in <he
diplomatic scene.
In a special three-minute in-
terview granted by Marshal
Stalin to Hiram Z. Snozzle-
wurzer, the famous correspon-
dent of the Tuscogee (Ga.)
“Trombone,” who travelled 2000
miles from Gobolovsk by bul-
lock-wagon to get the scoop, the
Soviet dictator is said to have
stated that it was absurd to sug-
gest General Malinin, who
existed only in the diseased
imagination of war-mongering
editors egged on by Wall-street,
was going to Washington on a
peace mission. The hand of
friendship had been offered by
the U.S.S.R. to America many
times in the past few years, but
had been scorned by the war-
mad, cowardly Truman, for
whom he personally had the
highest regard and affection.
Anyway, Stalin went on, General
Malinin was too valuable a man
to risk being assassinated in
Washington by the thugs em-
ployed by the U.S. State Depart-
ment, which obviously feared
that General Malinin’s efforts
for peace might frustrate their
own determination to encircle
and eventually destroy Soviet
Russia. He sent his deepest
respects to Dean Acheson, whom
he considered the arch-enemy of
the New Democracy and an un-
scrupulous blackguard.
A spokesman for the U.S.
State Department said that, in
the absence of a specific direc-
tion from the Chicago “Tribune,”
he couldn’t commit himself to
the foreign policy to be pursued
for the coming week. However,
touching on General Malinin’s
impact on it, he could say that
it was known that the intended
visitor had recently played a
major role in Stalin’s latest
purge and, as a consequence,
had been promoted to the most
important post under Beria, that
of Commissar for Mental Tor-
ture. His visit to Washington
might either be connected with
the forthcoming demand in
U.N.O. by the Soviet for a
united Ireland or with the de-
mand by the Soviet that Aus-
tralia should be forced to con-
sent to the creation of a Peoples’
Freedom Government for New
Guinea.
A spokesman for the British
Foreign Office said that the
affair was strictly one between
America and Russia, Britain
had not been consulted in the
matter. As far as the Foreign
Office was aware General
Malinin had died suddenly from
acute lead-poisoning following
his recall to Moscow from Costa
Rica after that country had in-
formed the Soviet that General
Malinin, who had been organ-
ising a spy-ring while allegedly
leading a food mission to that
country, was no longer persona
grata.
The spokesman further said
that the general referred to
might be the dead man’s son,
father or brother. His son, also
General Malinin, had up till
two months ago been a party-
organiser in a collectivised metal
quarry; his father, whose bal-
lerina grand-daughter had be-
come a favorite with Malinkov,
had been promoted from lance-
corporal to full general; his
brother had also been made a
general to make up the number.
According to Tirana (Albania)
Radio General Malinin fled re-
cently to Yugoslavia. The
N.K.V.D., acting on informa-
tion given by his son, had found
in the general’s pile of cigarette-
cards an old photo of Marshal
Tito. The discovery that General
Malinin was a Tito-Fascist had
led to a new purge in which 158
generals and admirals were sent
to the Siberian saltmines.
General Malinin, forewarned,
had escaped in a stolen plane.
The fact that Tito had refused
to hand Malinin back to the
Soviet secret police is expected
to cause even a deeper rift be-
tween Belgrade and the Krem-
lin.
Geuter’s correspondent in
Oslo learns on unimpeachable
authority that General Malinin,
who is now so close to Stalin
that they use the same American
electric razor, is carrying with
him to Washington a model of
the Soviet’s super atom-bomb.
It is not generally known that
Malinin, who up to 18 months
ago was a party-organiser’s
laborer, is now one of the top-
ranking of the Soviet’s famous
team of nuclear scientists, and
it is believed that it was he who
designed the bomb which, no
bigger than a walnut, is capable
of wiping out and making un-
tenable for 30 years an area be-
tween the Bronx and Broad-
way, It is also believed, the
representative also states, that
Russia is turning out 2000 of
the bombs a week, thus far out-
stripping America. General
Malinin achieved his military
rank through his work in de-
signing a new-type knout with
fish-hooks on the thongs for use
in Iron* Curtain slave-labor
camps.
Late cable note: A Colonel
Malinen arrived in Washington
today from Paris to attend the
Salvation Army congress being
held there.
BO.
A Gesture to Opponents.
“The Hinckley (Leicestershire)
Athletic Football Club is to be
hypnotised so that it will be given
the will to win.” — Cable item.
You think they play their foot-
ball tough
Down in the little town of
Hinckley —
No sissy namby-pamby stuff
And blood that courses pale
and pinkly ?
No doubt you picture “will to
win”
Aroused in men by means
hypnotic
As leaving marks on scalp and
skin
Till opposition grows chaotic.
All this is wrong, it seems to
me;
No local player even grasses
The man he has to mark when
he
Can beat him with mesmeric
passes.
BERT.


THE OTHER FRLLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Boom and Bust
The ghosts of 1886-1890 must surely
be abroad again and rattling their way
around the suburbs of Melbourne, where
boom conditions prevail in the real-
estate market. Fantastic prices are being
paid for vacant land and houses. The
boom of today, however, differs in some
respects from the earlier one inasmuch
as many buyers are genuine home or
home-lot seekers and not merely frenzied
speculators.
Still, boom prices are boom prices, and
booms, whatever their cause, are invari-
ably followed by slumps; and the higher
one goes the more certain the fall.
It is, therefore, interesting to recall
that hectic period from 1886 to 1893,
when so many people found themselves
inextricably involved. Old people will
tell of those Saturday-afternoon auctions
when free transport to the site was pro-
vided and the sale was conducted in
seated marquees to the tunes of brass
bands and accompaniment of free beer
and sandwiches. The sky, of course, was
the limit, and a good time was had by
all —temporarily.
The boom was mainly caused by lavish
expenditure of borrowed money, either in
the form of Government loans or by pri-
vate concerns such as land, finance com-
panies and building societies. By 1888 ex-
perienced bankers in Australia were pre-
dicting collapse, but the continued inflow
of money, much of it from Britain, staved
that off until 1890. Unfavorable seasonal
conditions, falling export prices and
apprehension in London led to the drying-
up, or, rather, reversal of the stream.
The first suspension was the Premier
Building Association in December, 1890,
and during the next two years no fewer
than 40 building and finance associations
in Melbourne and Sydney followed suh
By 1893 some of the then numerous
trading banks found themselves in diffi-
culty (some were only slightly em-
barassed), and the Federal Bank was the
first to suspend payment, doing so in
January of that year. Some of the banks
weathered the storm, but others had to
reconstruct.
Banks today are adopting a very differ-
ent and wary attitude towards prices both
for building and farm land. Buyers, par-
ticularly if they need to borrow to finance
their purchase, would be well advised to
observe some of the parallel conditions
prevailing in 1886-90 and today. They
are undoubtedly there. — Nugget (Vic.).
Forty-hour Week
At an impromptu “canter poll,” taken
after the matter had been discussed by a
group of 16 men, I gathered that the
40-hour week is a myth. Of the 16,
one was, by comparison, a capitalist. He
doesn’t work for a boss, but is battling
along as his own master, has one adult
and one junior employee and works on
a cost-plus basis.
Of the rest, eight were doing side-
line jobs at the week-end, making their
actual working week about 50 hours.
None of them admitted any improvement
in living standards or increase in savings.
Nine of the party (two of whom were
among those who had taken on extra
work), had wives who were working, some
full-time, some part-time.. None of these
had noticed any increase in their sav-
ings either. — Kilkennicat (S.A.).
Liberal Policy
The Liberals and Country party seem
to be relying mainly on the anti-Com-
munist plank to win the election. Good
as far as it goes, but anti-anything is a
rather negative and barren policy, and, in
any case, there is still time for Chifley to
pinch it as a prop for his own rather
ramshackle edifice. Many of us would
like to hear some details of a positive
and constructive plan for dealing with
the mess the Liberal and C.P. Govern-
ment will inherit. For example: “Free”
medicine, conscription of doctors, and
similar measures. Enormous sums of
our money have been collected to finance
these crazy schemes, and they can’t be
merely ignored. They must be put to
good use somehow.
The Petrol Tax: Do they agree with
Chifley about putting it int 6 consolidated
revenue? If not, will they use it all on
the roads, reduce it substantially, abolish
it, or what?
Defence: We have practically no de-
fence forces. Will they give us some-
thing worth while, and if so, what form
will it take? What call will it make on
our individual bodies and purses?
The Senate: Will they be content with
the monstrosity “Labor” is determined to
foist on us, or will they try to make it,
as was originally intended, an essential
part of the Constitution? If so, how?
There seems to be too much of the idea
that home-truths are unprofitable, in
terms of votes, and that it is best to
preserve a gentlemanly silence on con-
tentious matters. But we are not all
children and if, in the national interest,
we must work a bit harder, live on less
than we earn, or don uniform, we would
like to hear the details before the elec-
tion. — Magnoon (Q.).
Wool Prices and' Income Tax
The financial position of most graziers
has been improved in 1949 by the in-
crease in prices for wool sold. Hence
it would be wise for them to prepare for
the slug they will get in their assessments
by creating a higher reserve for tax.
In the 1948 year, before the big in-
crease, their assessments showed the pro-
visional for 1949 based on the income for
1948. The true income will be much
higher, and the difference between the
estimated tax shown in the provisional
and the true tax for 1949 will have to be
met.
The 1949 tax assessment will, therefore,
show a high tax for 1949, a provisional
for 1950 based on the 1949 income, plus
an additional amount to make up for the
relatively low 1948 provisional. If the in-
come for 1950 is less than for 1949 then
‘No, thanks—never touch it when Pm drivin .”
the adjustment in the provisional will be
in the taxpayers’ favor, but that consola-
tion is long deferred.
In the meantime the high income for
1949 carries a sting which may prove
dangerous unless remedied by a reserve.
It would be far better for graziers, whose
incomes vary so much, if the absurdity
of the provisional tax could be cut out.
The benefit, too, of the average-system is
well enough when incomes are rising, but
the very devil in a bad year.
Income tax in a good year is easy to
pay, but a high rate, caused by the appli-
cation of the average on a low income,
is hard to take.—C. R. (N.S.W.).
Home Finance
How many people would be build-
ing their own homes if they could
finance only on the basis of the financial
institution quoted by “Ceg” (B. 23/3/’49),
safe as it may seem? And if people do
not organise their own housing arrange-
ments where are they going to live?
In N.S.W. the Premier went to the
last elections with a promise of 90,000
houses. in three years —he afterwards
shuffled his feet and said he included all
building sources m that figure, not Hous-
ing Commission only. So far, nearly two
years later, he has completed possibly
25,000 out of the 90,000, only a fraction
of which are Government projects.
We all know that if another depression
comes the going will become a bit sticky,
but there’ll be plenty in it—so many, in
fact, that the problem will be one that will
require some solution other than by
wholesale foreclosure of mortgages.
Building societies and banks will not
want thousands of properties on their
hands- untenanted. And, anyway, if an
owner gets chucked out of one cottage
he will certainly be able to rent another
out of which his neighbor has been
thrown while the same neighbor rents
his late abode.
As for the loss of equity—what real
value has an equity today? Under our
Government’s benificence all are entitled
to Social Service benefits provided they
are poor enough. Money in the bank
will disqualify unless it is so little as to
be not worth worrying about. And taxa-
tion to provide the wherewithal to pay
the Social Services benefits is so steep
that not many people are today able to
save enough during their working life ( to
enable them exist in their old age inde-
pendent of the Government’s favor,
“Ceg” might be a lucky individual.
Personally, I’ll chance the headache that
financing of my home may bring me in
years to come rather than put up with
the headaches I had before I decided to
organise myself into a new cottage. —
Jindivick (N.S.W.).
Barbed-wire
Before I sold my farm I tried in vain
to get some barbed-wire—ordinary wire
was no good for the bull I had. As I
couldn’t get barbed-wire I tried for
ordinary wire—just enough to make a
common fence with the important wire
attached to an electric battery. I would
have been better employed putting up a
chock-and-log fence —I hadn’t an earthly
of getting any wire for stock work.
Yesterday I went to the home grounds
of the League football clubs. I saw
many strands of new barbed-wire, about
gauge—just the thing I wanted. It
was erected to keep the common herd
from the bull-pen, or the mob from sacred
places. I saw stuff there fresh out of
stock, not a speck of rust on it and just
what the farmers are crying out for.—
Splodger (Q.).
“Sixers”
I see that the Devon (Eng.) School
committee has decided that caning on the
hands must cease. It also ruled that male
teachers must not chastise girls, that boys
under seven and girls under 12 must be
slapped only with the hand, on the hands,
and that boys over seven must be caned
only over the trousers, with an approved
cane.
. Expulsions, deprivation of normal food,
shutting up in dark places, or sending to
bed in the daytime are rigorously to be
avoided.
All bunkum. I agree that chastisement
of girls by male teachers is not desirable,
and that caning of girls should not be
permitted, but I’m strongly in favor of
using the cane on the hands and sterns of
lads of 10 and over.
Namby-pamby and appeasement is re-
sponsible for much of today’s juvenile
delinquency. Children should be early
given to understand that wrongdoing in-
volves punishment and the punishment
should be exemplary.
Some lads respond to moral suasion.
Others behave because of the fear of a
decent lathering, and there’s no greater
deterrent than a scientifically administered
sixer on the hands or a similar number
of smitings of the tail-end.
Down the years old Fort-street School
(Sydney) has turned out some fine Aus-
tralians, and though, in my day there,
over 50 years ago, I got more than an
average share of “sixers” and “touch-toe”
exercises, I look back on my schooldays
as the happiest period of a pretty long and
full life.— Ognop (N.S.W.).
More Government Sweating
“A fair day’s work for a fair day’s
pay” means nothing to Canberra. This
is illustrated in the Commonwealth Elec-
toral Department, where roll-checking is
proceeding. Temporary officers have
been engaged, but they must register
100 alterations before receiving the
princely sum of 30s. It is possible for a
canvasser to walk 10 miles and not earn
his tram-fare!
Census-collectors were paid 30s. a day.
What essential difference is there between
the two jobs? No wonder returning
officers blush when explaining the slave
conditions offering. Many who took on
the job turned it in within half an hour.
The S.A. electoral chief, Davis, says
“Payment is unfair and is under review.”
Precisely, and a lot more should come
under review, including the authors of
this sweated task, —A. D. (S.A.).
A Million Migrants?
Migration is not the simple thing it
was in the last century. In those days
land was waiting to absorb the settler
and all he needed was initiative and will
to work. His enterprise created employ-
ment for every other class, and so
communities grew.
Today these wide opportunities are
gone. In the present manpower shortage,
every class of immigrant can be absorbed.
But the shortage arises from abnormal
conditions. The lag in production will
eventually give place to a surplus, and
then the bane of unbalanced immigration
will appear.
Take, for example, the housing short-
age. The need for homes today is four-
fold the normal requirements of the
community. Building tradesmen can be
absorbed to 300 per cent, above the
normal. When saturation-point is
reached, what is to become of those
surplus tradesmen? Normal expansion
will absorb a proportion and some will
retire, but a large percentage will be
stranded.
It isn’t that the country and its in-
dustries are unable to support another
million migrants, but such an influx must
be organised. Immigration must include
a right proportion of every class re-
quired to compose a general community.
—G. A. B. (N.S.W.).
Louis XVI
Louis XVI did not govern France as
oppressively as the Red Page review,
“Monsieur Hurricane,” implied (B.
9/3/’49). Considerable reforms were
achieved before a combination of sub-
versive elements brought about the Revo-
lution, and the historian, Semichon, goes
so far as to say:
Louis XVI created a new era, differing
far more from the period that had preceded
him than from those which came after.
If the reforms had been continued they
would have completely realised a peaceful
revolution in the constitution of France.
Wahl, the German, and Ardascheff, the
Russian, after independent investigation,
came to the same conclusion—that at the
end of the reign of Louis XV, there
began a period of substantial progress, in
which both town and country shared.
That view has been confirmed by later
researchers not blinded by prejudice in
favor of the revolutionists.
Far from being the glorious event
Charles James Fox proclaimed it, the
French Revolution more closely conforms
to Sir Charles Petrie’s description: “One
of the greatest calamities that ever befell
the human race!” Any good results that
came from it are now one with history,
while the evils it loosed loom more
menacingly than ever. —Castlereagh
(N.S.W.).
Root of the Matter
I can’t agree that Bs. 6d. to 12s. is too
much for the average reader to pay for a
book (B. 23 /3 / ’49). Such fleeting amuse-
ments as talkies or theatre shows cannot
be seen for less than 4s. and up to 15s.
in some cases, yet people can always find
the money. The trouble is that the art
of quietly reading has sadly declined —
young people demand leg-shows, movies
and comic-strips instead. O. W. W.
(M.L.).
P.M.G. Cameron still refuses to re-
move the extra ha’penny imposed on
letter-postage during the war as a tempo-
rary measure. Hitherto he has given as
reason for refusal his intention to send
all first-class mail matter by air. That
no longer holds with him. Now he says
the tuppence-ha’penny rate must stay
because the Government is committed to
huge expenditure on the expanding
postal service. But the Government was
also committed originally to removing
this extra tax after the war. — A. B.
(N.S.W.).
What is the Chifley Government’s
policy on “home-ownership for the
worker?” A few years back Dedman
derided the idea as “helping to
make little capitalists” of such house-
owners. Now Chifley’s Minister for
Housing (financial advances only, for
the use of) says “every facility
should be given to tenants to purchase
homes.” It is only a few months since
“Labor’s” Victorian election-strategist,
Kennelly, M.L.C., refused to vote for a
Hollway Government bill to liberalise
Victorian Savipgs-bank advances for this
very purpose, saying that it was wrong to
encourage mortgage debts by workers
in view of the depression which he ex-
pected about June next, Chifley’s “geared
economy” notwithstanding—M. M. (Vic.).,


Broken Hill Collected.
If any more Australian writers go
down the mine, the critics will be justified
in holding a pit-head strike, or, more
likely, they may just seal-off those par-
ticular mines and walk quietly away. A
dead author is so much more valuable
than a live one; a definitive essay on his
work, gossip about his private life, isola-
tion of those factors in which, as a writer,
he has failed, suggest themselves immedi-
ately to the critical mind.
Meanwhile, in Down Argent Street,
The Story of Broken Hill (F. H. John-
ston Publishing Co., Sydney), George
Farwell has contrived a novelty, a docu-
mentary book about mining. Its novelty
is that it is not a novel; it seems in-
credible—the reader never loses the feel-
ing that from behind this next descrip-
tive paragraph, at last, the representative
Australian bloke is going to step out and
meet the representative Australian shiela.
For instance:
The open-cut, once a spectacular surface
operation of the 8.H.P., is forlorn as a
dead planet. It has the air of a crater on
the moon. Certainly not of this world, for
you may stare down from its roped-off
lip, down into this huge and gaping wound
in the earth, and see no movement, hear
no sound. Massive boulders and aban-
doned machinery sprawl down its flanks as
though flung down the sheer sides of a
mountain gorge. „ Upon the crest old iron
lies everywhere. Rusting boilers, crank-
shafts, enormous wheels, iron-clad stacks
still partially upright, engine parts, rails,
shattered brick furnaces, overturned skips,
they crowd upon a deserted landscape.
One rusty shovel has been left half-buried,
as though its owner had hurried off at the
final whistle. Two corroded scaffoldings of
steel, partially dismantled headframes,
frown upon this tangled graveyard of past
engineering feats, their winder wheels silent
above
The mind, conditioned by the Aus-
tralian Mining Novel, demands the accus-
tomed resolution:
From the arched entrance of one of the
abandoned brick kilns, a tall, spare Aus-
tralian issued into the burning sunlight.
Country-bred, with dusty hair and blue
eyes, he carried in his right hand the Labor-
party platform, and in his left, Henry
Lawson’s short stories. His eyes screwed-up
against the sun, he regarded the girl, ,
country bred, with dusty hair and blue
eyes, who stood looking down at him.
She was first to break the silence.
“Do you really live here,” she asked, “in
this dreadful hole?”
“Yair,” he answered. “It’s a man-made
depression. I just don’t seem to be able
to get out of it, or if I do, some novelist
pushes me back into it”
But although the book abounds in such
openings, Mr. Farwell never falls into
them. When people move about his scene
they are real people, like George Mc-
Culloch, manager of a 14,000 square-mile
station at Mount Gipps, who began with
a £7O share in the “Syndicate of Seven”
which first pegged-out Broken Hill, and
ended a millionaire.
For the present-day reader, who knows
the answers, there is fascination in the
casual dealings of that syndicate, not
quite sure whether its shares are worth
hanging on to, and Mr. Farwell tells
very well.the famous story of how Mc-
Culloch played euchre to decide whether
he would accept £l2O or £2OO for one of
his shares, which in six years was to
represent £1,250,000. Equally fascinating
is the ease with which the B.HJP. went
into production, not even using its small
£15,000 of working capital; formed in
1885, mining 870,000 ounces of silver and
1990 tons of lead by May, 1886 ; gross
value, £157,215 ; paying dividends of 60
per cent, which rose within two years to
126 per cent.; £2O shares rising to £73
in 1886, £l9O in 1887 and later, when
the boom really got going, to £412.
The account of these early days and
the boom which followed them is one
of the two high-points in the book; the
other —perhaps it might be better de-
scribed as the low-point—is where Mr.
Farwell goes down the mine to see the
miners in action, first on the Fourteen
Level, 1960 ft. down, where they are blast-
ing out the ore ; and then down to the
Nineteen Level, three-fifths of a mile
underground, where developmental gangs
are preparing the way for the miners
who are to get the ore out. Here Mr.
Farwell manages to surprise us, or such of
us as imagine that a mine is merely "a
hole in the ground :
Everything is planned on a big scale
down here, approaching the size of a small
industrial project on the surface; full-sized
concrete plants that can deliver some eighty
cubic yards in an hour; the building of
steel caissons, accompanied by a clattering
hammer of pneumatic riveting machines;
the haulage and lowering of steel rails to
reinforce ore-passes and shafts; air-driven
engines to work a hinged scoop lifting two
or three cubic feet of mullock at each grab.
The picture given of life underground
is so new and so satisfying that the
standard miracles of Broken Hill seem
a little tawdry and sleight-of-hand beside
it (and it is a town of miracles): mining
diseases eliminated because of Dr. W. E.
George; the desert made to grow trees
because of the late Albert Morris ; full
employment, the unions running the
town and co-operating with the mine
managers —because of what? The lead
bonus? The isolation of Broken Hill?
A common feeling that it won’t last?
As to how long it may last, Mr. Far-
well’s authorities say certainly nine years,
probably at least a hundred years, maybe
longer.
Mr. Farwell gives careful attention to
these and many other facets of the life
of this strange town —Saturday in Argent
Street; discovery and early history of
the region; the wreck of Silverton;
Silverton Tramway, which in 50 years
netted more than £4,000,000 profit on a
capital of £62,800; the annual exodus to
the seaside; the early suppression of
strikes by armed police; Dr. McCarthy
the Rainmaker and his cannon ; six mil-
lion tons of zinc tailings and no process
to separate them ; the Twenty-one Dis-
eases ; first publication of Tom Collins’s
Rigby’s Romance in “Barrier Truth”
newspaper; and Percy Brookfield, the
good Labor politician, who died young.
He might have got a bit more amusement
out of the town’s united front on its
water-supply ; the show they put on in
1946 was worth more than a few para-
graphs ; and, as the Sydney “Mirror”
reminded us recently, there was a private
war turned on in 1915 by two patriotic
Turks which might have added a little
color to his picture.
The book is handsomely produced with
large type on large paper, and Roy Dal-
garno has used much of it as a sketch-
book ; almost every other page has some
specimen of his black-and-white art, each
with a simple wash of brown, grey
or heliotrope desolate open-cuts,
abandoned stations ; rejoicing parvenus ;
miners mining, setting off fuses, hanging
N.S.W. Ministers for Local Works in
effigy, .riding precariously over under-
ground chasms in buckets; the Trades
Hall, the Social Democratic Club ; home-
steaders tuning in the Flying Doctor,
aborigines watching smoke-signals—no-
thing that might be called new, but all
helpful and illustrative to the writing.
In short, a history of Broken Hill for
the general reader, not complete, but
holding together a great deal of infor-
mation which should render it indispen-
sable to future writers on Broken Hill.
If there should be any novelists among
these, they are earnestly recommended
to turn to page 11, to the notice on the
padlocked doors of the stone winder-
house in the deserted Open-cut: KEEP
OUT, G. D. Delprat, General Manager.
Arnhem Land Aborigines.
Alan Marshall’s approach to the
Arnhem Land aborigines in Ourselves
Writ Strange (F. W. Cheshire Pty., Ltd.,
Melbourne) is one of friendly curiosity.
Blessed is the questioner, for he shall
receive an answer:
His smell inspired me to ask him a ques-
tion I had been intending to ask one of the
blacks for some time.
“Do white people smell bad to you,
Fred?”
“Yes. Smellem cornin’,” he said shortly.
Then, with some feeling of self-satisfac-
tion, recalling my frequent showers, I
asked, “Do I smell?”
“Proper horrible,” said Fred with a
grimace.
But to get answers like this, it is neces-
sary to be more than ordinarily friendly.
Mr. Marshall shakes hands, asks their
names, gets them to tell him stories,
crowds with them into bark huts smelling
evilly of dugong, and motions them to
ride side by side with him when they are
going on horseback, instead of in the
procession of master and servant.
But he must have some charm which
puts them immediately at their ease. For
instance, within a few minutes of meeting
David Mamoose Pitt on a mission lugger
travelling down the west coast of Cape
York Peninsula, he has him talking about
the Old People who, long ago, threw a
white captain of a pearling lugger into the
sea. The white captain had sealed the
boat’s water. No pearl-shell, no water.
The boat was wrecked, and the Old
People, David Mamoose Pitt’s father
among them, took off the supplies. “They
eat soap and drink all castor oil and pain-
killer and medicals”; and then, said
David Mamoose Pitt:
“The Protector of Aborigines on Thurs-
day Island and one white sergeant come
down to see.
“The Protector kill a lot of people down
there. The Protector and the sergeant, they
shoot all peoples that be on the beach, like.
They shoot people that be running through
trees. When they shoot persons they leave
tobacco, tomahawk and presents beside
men they shoot to show Old People white
man be their friends, like, and shouldn’t be
killed. They know friends come and pick
body up. Their friends get presents, like.”
From Cowal Creek mission at the tip of
Cape York Peninsula, Mr. Marshall went
by lugger to Mapoon, Weipa and Auru-
kun missions on its west coast; and then
by air from Darwin he visited Groote
Eylandt, and Yirrkalla and Milingimbi
missions on the north coast of Arnhem
Land, and the inland-mission station,
Oenpelli.
He has fair words for the white
husbands and wives, bachelors, Fijian
clergymen, and the nurses and teachers,
who house, clothe, feed and teach the
aborigines. But, throughout the book,
he contrasts the mission native, who has
half-forgotten the moral system of the
tribe, and only half-b’elieves in the moral
system of his Christian teachers, with
the Old People, who had a complete and
satisfying way of life. He offers no really
satisfactory solution to the extraordinarily
difficult problems of how to leave the
aborigine alone and yet to protect him,
how to make him at once an Old Person
and a reasonably modern person ; but it
is always worth while to bring the prob-
lems up for discussion —especially when,
as in this book, there is first-hand evi-
dence on the present life of the natives.
Mr. Marshall has three interesting de-
scriptions of community dances and
ceremonial displays. The first is of a
set of dances at a feast at Aurukun, for
the purification and opening of a paper-
bark hut in which a man had recently
died; the “Stolen Woman” dance, the
Dance of the Doves, the Dying Crocodile
dance, and the Shake-a-Leg. dance, which
takes years to perfect. The second is the
ceremonial challenge to battle brought
by four blacks from the bush camp at
Milingimbi to the members of the
mission camp. The bush blacks wanted
one of the mission girls Ao wife. The
formal orations and counter-orations had
almost reached the final frenzy when
spears are thrown, when Mr. Marshall
began rolling himself a cigarette, where-
upon the painted warriors, first the home
team, then the visitors, knocked off to
ask for ’bacca.
The third description is of a return
visit paid by the Milingimbi mission team ’
to the bush camp. A bush black had
seized the arm of Ruby, wife of a mission-
camp aborigine. In this battle, the
blacks really came to blows, but mainly
with their own womenfolk, who, as
spears were shaken, caught at the shafts
of the spears, and hung on. This is all
part of the battle ceremonial:
The .resistance of the men to the impor-
tunities of the womenfolk establishes them
as men of importance, and their active
hostility towards those who lay restraining
hands upon them increases both their anger
and their resolve to fight for their rights.
Besides, it is a comforting thought and
one conducive to the expression of more
savage threats of violence to have a wife or
friends waiting to prevent you rushing on to
the unnecessary danger of putting threats
into practice.
The men then try to shake the women
off; they drag them through the dust,
they swing them in circles, they jerk them
from side to side ; but the women hang
on firmly to the shafts of the spears.
Then the first man to be thus incom-
moded paused for breath, and considered
the situation:
He swung his womera aloft, then brought
it down in a smashing blow upon her head.
I could hear the horrible sound of it as
it met the resistance of her skull. Her
head drooped, but her hands, acting on
their own volition, still clung in desperation
to the reality of the spear.
He struck at her again and again, the
swinging womera dissolving into a blur as
it made a downward sweep. Her limbs
became lax, her fingers unfolded with a
slow reluctance and she sank to the ground.
He looked at her a moment as if in
regret that she could no longer serve to
prove the inflexibility of his intentions,
nor add to his stature as a man. Now
action against men was called f0r....
The other fighting men followed suit,
except Harry, leader of the mission
blacks. Harry was really fond of his
wife, and cheated. He only knocked her
out with his fist. Then spears were
thrown, and one black suffered a head
wound; blood had flowed; honor was
satisfied; and peace concluded.
With considerable difficulty, seeing that
he has to use crutches, Mr. Marshall
rode, clambered, and went pick-a-back
to an aboriginal art-gallery in a huge
cave on top of a mountain near Oenpelli
mission. The cave was formed by a
rock which went so far back that its
supporting rock was lost in darkness ;
and the roof thus formed was covered
with aboriginal paintings, the description
of which leaves the reader regretful that
Mr. Marshall did not photograph them.
However, he makes up for this, among
a series of run-of-the-mill photographs,
with one of Boyand, 14-year-old daughter
of Harry of Milingimbi, with her
child, a charming and cheerful little
black Madonna, a picture of rare feeling
and real beauty.
Ourselves Writ Strange is a fine book;
it deserves to go through many editions ;
and in the second edition the publisher
should readjust the chapter-heads, which
for most of the way are exactly one
chapter ahead of their chapters.
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 14
(CRYPTIC type.)
Across.
I—Royalty1—Royalty oasts aspersions on Aus-
tralians. (13)
8— Take it in France to the coves
in the lake. (5)
9 Submitted to a Gallic river in
Australia. (9)
11 — South Australian railways take
a namby-pamby to a brooklet
before a drink. (12)
12— .(3)
14— Parisian biographies of rivals. (4)
15 — Searches with a card game and
broken forks. (5, 3)
18 — Overturned Victorian beach, men-
tioned by Kipling, and went in
front when listed among the
members. (8)
19 — Derisive comment sent back to
a theatrical celebrity. (4)
21 — Isle of humanity. (3)
22 — Druggist treats the dental decay
with a European stream. (12)
25 — Not well you dug when lit. (9)
26 Refrigerant in turning B'oadicea’s
countrymen. (5)
27 — Chassis friend (anagram). (13)
(,Solution in next issue.)
Down.
1 — Fruit direction takes ten to the
ram of anniversaries. (15)
2 Madame Bovary spends the
morning with me in quite the
wrong way. (4)
3 Entangled apron line can be
incomparable. (9)
4 I am swallowed by the parasite
of a Paris opera. (6)
5 Misdeed. (5)
6 Star-shaped measure if in the
tempest, upset Monsieur Duck
without bones. (10)
7 Such irregular editions give the
bye or the hubbub ram. (15)
10 —Lung-fish take a swim with Mr.
Idriess on the way up. (6)
13—Given too much off the cricket
attack to duck the part of speech
with a night-bird and a Neddy.
(10)
16— Frisky Christopher X takes his
change. (9)
17 — Cleric swallows a couple of hun-
dred in Central India. (6)
20 —The councillor you accompany
to the hide-out for the man who
authored a concordance to the
Bible. (6)
23 — Drone over America is good for
the garden. (5)
24 Queen to be above the craft. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 13.


We give this
firm promise
to young
Couples.
The Liberal Party, when returned to office, will regard as its paramount and
most vital responsibility the speeding-up of the housing programme. We will
not allow any other public works, other than those of the most extreme
urgency, to be given priority over home-building.
The Liberal Party gives this firm undertaking to the many thousands of young engaged
couples in Australia who are forced to postpone marriage, and possibly throw away
the happiest years of their lives, because they cannot get a home of their own • . , and
to couples already married who are suffering the same penalty.
t
You are penalised to-day by the Chifley Government, which gives priority to extravagant
building plans for Government Departments, which fails to check restrictive, go-slow
tactics in the building industry or to increase production of many essential building
materials. In other words, the very Government which claims to be the champion of
the average man and woman is the Government that is depriving you of a home and,
by starving State Governments of funds, preventing even your State Government from
helping you.
We will not allow any public works except those of extreme urgency to be
given priority over home-building.
GIVE FINANCIAL SUPPORT TO
THE LIBERAL PARTY send
your contribution to State
Headquarters.
R. G. MENZIES
PARLIAMENT HOUSE, CANBERRA
FLIB-49
Authorised by
D. M. Cleland, 30 Ash Street, Sydney.
