

TANUNDA BRANDY
A PRODUCT OF THE
t\l
S®s
nQ-L
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” VoL TO No. 3600
Wednesday, February 9, 1949
Price 6cL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper..
Seppelts
Oxford’s Magdalen Tower
Was Designed
by Cardinal Wolsey
'J'HE High Street, Oxford, known the
world over as The High, is one of
the most beautiful architectural features
in England, and the visitor who arrives
from London by road is introduced to it
by one of the most beautiful buildings in
England, Magdalen Tower, pronounced
“Maudlen,” which stands beside the
bridge reflected in the quiet waters of the
River Cherwell.
This graceful 145-feet Perpendicular
tower was built in 1492-1507 as the bell-
tower of Magdalen College Chapel, and
was designed by Cardinal Wolsey, who,
as a young man, was bursar of Magdalen
College. He was dismissed the bursar-
ship for applying college funds to its
building without having first obtained
permission from the authorities.
Each May morning, since time im-
memorial, the tower has been the scene
of an ancient custom, for on this day the
Choir of Magdalen Chapel ascend to the
top of the tower and greet the rising sun
with a special hymn.
Another ancient custom is observed at
Queen’s College in The High, On Christ-
mas Day a “boar’s head” Dinner is held
in the College Hall. This Dinner is said
to commemorate the feat of a student
who, five hundred years ago, while roam-
ing in the neighboring woods and reading
Aristotle, was attacked by a wild boar.
With great presence of mind, the student
saved himself by thrusting the volume of
Aristotle down the boar’s throat.


nrr,
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your WewFr*
Booklet explaining how to Wnte for P
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name .
My Address
S.B. 140 -.
AGE.
The Red Page
AUDEN AND DAY LEWIS.
It is pleasant to see in Cecil Day
Lewis’s Poems 1943-1947 (Cape) tribute
paid to the poetry of Edmund Blunden
and Walter de la Mare and to the prose
and poetry of Thomas Hardy, in the form
of birthday verses. The poem to Blun-
den is only mildly effective; the Hardy
poem better —
I fancy the beasts and flowers there beguiled
By a visitation
That casts no shadow, a friend whose mild
Inquisitive glance lights with compassion,
Beyond the tomb, on all of this wild
And humbled creation —
and the tribute to De la Mare, because
it resembles a poem by De la Mare,
better still; but all these verses, however
their merits vary, indicate a genuine love
for poetry, a respect for achievement, a
revolution ending in amity.
It is not so long since the school to
which Day Lewis belonged—in the com-
pany of Auden, Spender and MacNeice
—was thought to have made a break in
the tradition of English poetry. There
was a new outlook on life. Leftist and
Freudian; there was a new idiom for
poetry, the use of a contemporary
language with, especially in Day Lewis’s
verse, metaphors taken from the fac-
tories; there was a new freedom of
rhyme, rhythm and yerse-'forms; and
there was much obscurity: all of which,
taken together, seemed to constitute, for
better or for worse, a revolution.
In the arts as in politics there is a good
deal of unpleasantness associated with
revolutions. Instead of honoring their
predecessors and, if necessary, quietly
pensioning them, youthful fanatics have
a habit of cutting off their heads: which,
in effect, was what happened, in intel-
lectual circles, to the poetry of De la
Mare and Blunden during the revolu-
tionary fervor. And, at the same time,
while there were these excesses of de-
structive ardor, so there were excesses
of construction: in the way of too much
freedom of style, too much politics and
far too much obscurity.
In Auden’s new book. The Age of
Anxiety (Faber), subtitled “A Baroque
Eclogue,” the atmosphere of revolution
continues. Set in a bar and then in an
apartment in New York and consisting,
with stage directions in prose, of a long
discussion by two men and a woman
concerning the troubles of the modern
world, it is novel in form and would be
startlingly so had we not become accus-
tomed to novelty from Auden—and if it
did not, as a whole, conform to the cus-
tomary pattern of his novelties. It is not
really revolutionary in versification, for
Auden uses for the most part the alli-
terative style which Eliot revived in
certain sections of Murder in the
Cathedral —•
All war’s woes I can well imagine.
Gunbarrels glint, gathered in ambush,
Mayhem among mountains—
and which comes, of course, from
medieval English poetry ; but still, it is
revolutionary in intention: it is a piece
of self-conscious stylism, a deliberat'e ex-
periment in verse-craft.
Though it is not unduly obscure, the
concluding section, where the three pro-
tagonists go on a mystical journey to dis-
cover, so it would appear, some kind of
religious faith, is difficult to follow, and
the whole poem certainly comes into the
category of intellectual verse.
But it is its tone more than its form,
style or degree of that marks
it as a continuation of the revolution.
It is acid, in the Freudian way, about
fathers and absolutely relentless about
mothers. It is sarcastic about wishes. It
conveys a general impression—the three
persons of the dialogue are mere ab-
stractions —that mankind is no more
than an insect under the scientist’s
microscope. And, to such an extent that
it repeats the spirit of Thomas Gray’s
celebrated ‘ Alas, unconscious of their
doom the little victims play” it is
despairing:
Dedicated, clandestine under
the guilt and grime of a great career.
The bruise of his boyhood is as blue still,
Horrid and hurting, hostile to his life
As a praised person. He pines for some
Nameless Eden where he never was
But where in his wishes once again
Over hallowed acres, without a stitch
Of achievement on, the children play
Nor care how comely they couldn’t be
Since they needn’t know they’re not happy.
A good deal can be said for The Age
of Anxiety, chiefly for its patches of bril-
liant versification and the occasional
flights of an imagination which, in
another mood and another setting, might
become humorous. More can be said
against it, for the verse-craft as a whole
is more ingenious than genuinely dis-
tinguished, the attempts at unrhymed
odes do not quite come off, and the en-
tire conception is hardly more than a re-
writing, at enormous length, of Shak-
speare’s paragraph about the seven ages
of man. It is clever but unexciting ; like
Swift in its outlook, but without the
wit and marvellous invention that make
Swift’s outlook bearable. The revolu-
tion has dwindled in it to mere repetition.
It has been said, and well said, of poli-
tical revolutions that “all that can really be
accomplished is an infinitesimal advance
in the moral nature of the individual”: and
revolutions in the arts, when the storm
has subsided, are seen to be similarly in-
finitesimal in their results. It is not pos-
sible, after all, to cut off the head of a
body of poetry ; Blunden, Hardy and De
la Mare reappear, undamaged. All that
has really been accomplished is a little
freshening of language, a little loosening
of technique. The tradition continues:
with the disadvantages as well as the ad-
vantages of the revolution in The Age of
Anxiety, but in Day Lewis’s Poems with
the advantages only.
Day Lewis had, in fact, few revolu-
tionary excesses ever to trouble readers
of his verse. Sometimes his internal
rhymes were laborious; sometimes his
imagery from the factories was forced ;
sometimes his politics were too much to
the fore. But he was never obscure,
never despairing ; never, like Auden, cut
off by his cleverness from humanity. He
wrote finely on heroic themes.
The new book is, primarily, a collec-
tion of love poems. There is agony in
them, but a tragic and truly poetic
agony: —•
Take any joy there was —here it remains,
Corruptless, irrecoverable, cold
As a dead smile, beneath the cruel glacier
That moved upon our kisses, lambs and leaves,
Stilled them, but will not let their forms dissolve.
O tomb transparent of my waxen joys!
O lifelike dead under the skin of ice!
0 frozen face of love where my one treasure
Is locked, and the key lost! May I not share
Even the bare oblivion of your fate?
And through the agony, in spare but
melodious verse, shines beauty:
1 must live on where love first homed, though
the wind cries *
Through all its crumbling eyes;
Must walk alone the fieldpath where
Our linked illusions trod on air
And honeybeams of moonshine brushed our
thighs.
There is nothing startling about this
book of Day Lewis’s ; it is just good
poetry, sincere and quiet. It has not the
wild magic of De la Mare, the earthy
solidity of Blunden or Hardy ; but,
while Auden is merely repeating his revo-
lutionary “dance of death,” it is alive
and, in two senses of the word, moving.
Miracles on Manaun g.
Maurice Collis’s The Descent of the
God (Faber) deals with two miracles,
one ancient and one modern. It is
located near Mr. Collis’s favorite territory
of Burma —on the island of Manaung in
the Bay of Bengal—and the historical
miracle is told more or less in the form
of a novel.
The story is based on folklore and the
traditions of strolling players who re-
enacted the miracle much in the way that
medieval actors in Europe presented the
Nativity plays. In the sixteenth century,
so the story goes, the peasants of Man-
aung became aware of a mysterious per-
fume pervading a certain Red Hill, which
they took to indicate the presence of an
immortal, a deity from one of the lesser
heavens permitted by the Buddha to de-
scend to earth. Other signs that the island
was divinely favored were that it grew
a particularly sweet rice, that a monster
had been seen in a lake and that there
were peculiar circlings and twitterings
of the birds, culminating in the arrival
of a rare white dove.
The newly-appointed viceroy of Man-
aung, who hoped to keep the miracle
a secret so that he might learn the
mysteries of longevity and alchemy, tried
to communicate with the invisible divinity
through a medium, but rang, so to speak,
the wrong number:
The scent had been drowned by an acrid
smell, like that of the smoke of a funeral
pyre; the hill now smelt like a graveyard
in which corpses are being burned. This
phenomenon was immediately followed by
a fall of small objects which appeared
to be morsels of human bones. The Taung
Shin and the Headman were now much
alarmed; it looked as if an evil spirit, un-
known and from an unknown quarter, had
entered the head priest instead of the
transcendent being whom they had hoped
to entice A most sinister expression
played over the head priest’s mouth. Dis-
mayed but obedient they laid hold of him,
but as soon as he felt their grip he began
writhing horribly and was forced to his mat
with the greatest difficulty after a con-
fused struggle in which he spat and foamed,
the spirit within him roaring with rage.
News of these happenings, the tale
continues, reached the king in Arakan ;
and he, having yearned all his life for
some assurance of immortality, journeyed
to smell the perfume and, if possible, to
interview the deity. His queen, who had
had intimations that she was to be the
one honored by the visitant, journeyed
with him, and in a final scene on the red
hill the king, unable even to smell the
perfume, dies of a broken heart and the
queen, favored by the perfume and its
inhabitant, becomes the priestess of a
local cult.
Mr. Collis’s talent is for descriptive
rather than dramatic writing, and all this,
as a novel or as history in the form of
a novel, could have been much more
effectively told. The character, for in-
stance, of a Portuguese adventurer serv-
ing the king and expounding to him the
mysteries of Christianity is very sketchily
outlined. There are touches of character-
isation and hints of comedy or drama
throughout—in the figures of Buddhist
dignitaries, the peasants and the king’s
advisers —but nothing is developed to the
full. The author does not seem to have
made up his mind whether his outlook
should be devout or ironic. However,
the historical record of ( the miracle is his
chief concern and that is told interestingly
enough.
The modern miracle is really the same
one ; but it is separated by such a gap in
time, and is such an odd story to submit
as sober fact, that it seems worth separate
.status; Mr. Collis says that he himself,
when Manaung came under his juris-
diction as a British representative, in-
spected the Red Hill, was immediately
“enveloped in a scent as of flowers” and,
finding no flowers, was and is unable to
account for the phenomenon. The scent
was in the grass and the earth, but when
he took samples of these away with him
to have them analysed all trace of odor
had vanished.
This modern miracle, of more immedi-
ate interest than the historical prologue,
makes only a brief chapter at the end
of the book. Naturally, it leaves one
asking questions; which, naturally, Mr.
Collis cannot answer. But he can, as
always, write admirable prose.
Grigg on Churchill.
A carpenter’s son in poor circumstances
happened in his secondary school to come
under a “consummate teacher of
mathematics,” won scholarships worth
£l4O a year at Cambridge and found his
way thereby to the British Treasury. He
served for 10 years as the link between
Treasury and Chancellor with five Chan-
cellors in succession—Horne, Baldwin,
Neville Chamberlain, Snowden, Churchill
(for five years), then Snowden again in
“the depression,” by which time he knew
almost everybody in British public life.
This is the first part of the story of Sir
James Grigg, as told in his autobiography,
Prejudice and Judgment (Cape). In 1942
Churchill made him Secretary of State
for War.
Grigg’s memoirs are an interesting com-
mentary on the men and politics of his
time, including some of the events of the
late war —Singapore, for instance;
The MacDonald Government [of 1924]
pleased both the Liberals and its own sup-
porters by suspending work on the naval
base at Singapore. I expect a good many
people in 1942 thought it a pity that the
Tories ever restarted this, in the event, quite
futile enterprise. But 1 have always con-
sidered that the real tragedy of the Singa-
pore decisions was much more that Lord
Beatty’s view prevailed over that of Lord
Trenchard in regard to the methods to be
adopted for defending the base. The
naval view meant fixed defences and big
guns and forts, and these turned out to be
useless. It might have been a very dif-
ferent story if Lord Trenchard’s plan of
entrusting the protection of the fortress pre-
dominantly to the air had carried the day.
Grigg puts Trenchard “on the short list
of indubitably great men whom I have
had the good fortune to know person-
ally.”
Another disclosure is of the reason for
the dragging campaign in Italy. The
Americans were always half-hearted
about the North African campaign and
the later campaign in Italy.
Immediately on the Italo-German sur-
render at Tunis they pressed that the forces
preparing in the United Kingdom for the
assault across the Channel should be
strengthened, and as a consequence seven
divisions, four American and three British,
were withdrawn from the Mediterranean
theatre... .This meant that the armies
left in Italy were not strong enough to get
to Rome before the winter rains
After the capture of Rome and the rapid
advance to the Pisa-Rimini line the Ameri-
cans thought the Italian campaign could
very well be stabilised there, and seven
more divisions were withdrawn for a land-
ing on the Mediterranean coast of France.
Grigg thinks Alexander’s work in Italy,
under these handicaps, marked him as
outstanding, and that history will assign a
place to English soldiers who helped to
win the war in this order —Alanbrooke,
Montgomery, Alexander, Paget (who
trained the army of assault), Giffard
(whose work was the communications
through Africa for supplies to Burma and
the East Indies theatre), and Dill (of the
Combined Chiefs-of-Staff organisation in
Washington). On his death Dill was
accorded by Resolution of Congress a
State burial in Arlington cemetery, and a
tribute to his services which “I doubt if
even Lafayette enjoyed.”
Grigg’s references to the American
command are few and restrained. He
puts the case on each side of the Eisen-
hower-Montgomery argument about the
Normandy campaign, and thinks Mont-
gomery was right, but that Eisenhower
could not well decide differently than he
did. “He would have had great trouble
with that, modern Jeb Stuart, Geneial
George Patton, if he had ordered him to
stop and give up all his maintenance re-
sources —and all his limelight—to Mont-
gomery. .. .And, anyway, Washington
would probably have overruled him if he
had.... In democracies public opinion
cannot be lightly ignored even when it is
wrong.”
Churchill is the dominating personality
of the book. All his speeches, says Grigg,
were prepared with meticulous care, and
he disliked speaking impromptu before a
large audience—habits which the author
“could never wholly reconcile with his
extraordinary fluency of composition in
conference, at the dinner-table, or in
private conversation.” Grigg, visiting him
in 1939 on his return from India, “thought
I should find him much more upset than
he was over the German occupation of
Prague. His answer to my expressed sur-
prise was, ‘One cannot break one’s heart
more than once.’ ”
Yet his “gaminesque humor” persisted
during the late war years. “Some of the
best of the Winston stories belong to this
time, but the victims of them are still
alive’, and so the anecdotes must remain
as household words for a little longer.”
Which is a pity.
Hie author concludes by offering “my
meed of deep affection to one who as a
war leader ranks with Chatham and
Lloyd George, who is an incomparable
master of the English tongue, and who is
unmistakably today Triton among the
minnows.”
Australian Music.
Australia Makes Music by Isabelle
Moresby (Longmans) is the story of
Australia’s contribution to music, both
creative and interpretative. It is a
surprisingly full story, starting from
the time when that intrepid music-lover
Surgeon Worgan of the First Fleet landed
his piano from H.M.S. Sirius on the
virgin shores of Port Jackson.
A good deal of the book is devoted to
the biographies of singers. Their careers,
from Ada Crossley, Amy Sherwin and
Melba to such contemporary artists as
John Brownlee;, Harold Williams, Alan
Eddy, Joan Hammond and Marjorie
Lawrence, have been traced with due
regard to their individual impacts on the
music of their times, and the sketches
form a valuable source of reference.
One of the most delightful chapters
is that in which the author, who as
orchestral violist and violinist has played
under many world-famous conductors,
gives an intimate view of the large
musical family of which she was a young
member. The anecdotes are shot through
with a sly humor.
Both resident and visiting conductors
are discussed at length. The author con-
firms the view held by most orchestral
players that Beecham, far from being the
ogre his advance reputation had conjured,
proved in fact to be one of the most
popular conductors ever to visit Australia,
a man whose caustic tongue was reserved
exclusively for press interviews.
The book, which is copiously illus-
trated, devotes chapters to aboriginal
music and the art of violin-makers A. E
Smith, William Dolphin and Nelson
Oliver, and winds up with an exhilarating
sketch of life behind the scenes of a
symphony orchestra.
Among the composers whose work is
assessed clearly and with balanced
judgment are John Antill, whose Cor-
roboree” is the biggest work in the maior
form yet written by an Australian,
Margaret Sutherland, Roy Agnew, Wil-
liam James, Horace Gleeson, the New
Zealander Alfred Hill, with his astonish-
ing output of songs, cantatas, operas,
chamber music and concerti, the duo-
pianists Frank Hutchens and Lmdle\
Evans, whose compositions are at last
gaining the favor they deserve, and the
song-writers May Brahe and Horace
Keats. _
Rajput Painting and Mughal Painting ,
both from Faber, are the first two
volumes of a series of reproductions oi
Oriental Art, intended to make a com-
panion library to the admirable Faber
Gallery. The books are similar m format
to the Faber Gallery productions and con-
tain, as well as color-plates, an explan.-,
tory text.


V5 2 V*'*' * K
y*V '
Truth in Advertising”
W 9 '
#'i •' • vjfc A
4 "A"
3 „ S
<r‘ * ”, s^v
*•. * -I
. nr
Sr , £■■>■**?
,'V.V ' '• > y.
%::'h
f/z
f 9 ■> -jJISSJ. • 4 #/-'. f'- A ,
% jfifi - 4
, • ift ,: v‘ ,i] d> £k s. , frff !& *&
i .fr.
WWW;::
mmmm
's/ ~ |. -v*y*• S:> *.V». \
:L->
K;«.. <>' spy
wi
r 7
.?«JL
■0 4 4~ i-
< \t.
* \m
7 , --
3SSUu«4&**!K
V'//////////S///S'7SS777A
.4 e*
. - ?'
""ft f/h*
i .
■
jSW
S
... -
2
,V,. V'evCi.
.V/j/ 1
/ , <-
my*Jh>W'
<4
7/
«
■
i'.re;.V(j;
-r-,7
Anthony Horderns’
THE SENIOR STORE
•f ?
sa
mm
ii
The man who has large lawns round his home knows that a good motor
mower Is an item, quite indispensable among his gardening implements.
Such a man will appreciate the sturdy dependability of the English “Qualcast”
—a 16in. motor mower with six Sheffield steel blades. The two-stroke
engine has 98 c.c. capacity and is a Villiers 1 h.p. model. The mower has
rollers of unbreakable steel attached, is fitted with all metal grass box, and
the whole weighs 150 lbs. The handles can be altered to suit the height
of the user. Price £77/4/6
Then, for the man who feels that a hand mower wifi be able to cope with
his lawns, we suggest the English “Qualcast” Hand Mower made in best
English cast iron. With five Sheffield steel cutting blades and 9in. diameter
wheels, this ball-bearing mower has adjustable handles which can be altered
for the convenience of the user. 12in. size, £7/0/6; 14in. size, £7/5/6
OH ~,4$L/ 1./=^-^
«WCT
V
<9
r.
c
Here is the ideal wheel barrow for pottering round
the garden. It is the No. 2 Galvanised Iron Wheel
Barrow which is fitted with a pipe frame. £3/2/
The pump which is always handy in the garden is
the Rega D Bucket Spray Pump. It is now available.
Price
37/6
Freight extra
d
’PHONE: M 2401 BOX 2712 C, C.P.0.. SYDNEY
£4/2/
£3/6/3
46/9
“Halvic” 6ft. Seat —a quality product com-
bining strength, cortnfort and appearance. For
park, garden, sporting club settings. In colours
of Red, Green, Orange. Price £4/2/-
“Restezy” sft. Scat styled for relaxation.
Ideal for homes, gardens, etc. In Red, Green,
Orange. Price £3/6/3
“Halvic” Individual Scat is a practical all-
purpose seat of attractive design and light
mobility. It is resilient, and arm rests are
optional. In Red, Green or Orange .•. 46/9
Agricultural Department—Fourth Floor.


MOONRAG
By
CECIL
MANN
EVERYTHING down in the sand-
stone-terraced garden is as usual
after light rain in the night with a
clear morning to follow. Washed
fresh and clean in the bright sunshine.
Vegetables. French beans and staked
tomatoes. Cabbages, onions, potatoes;
circles of cucumbers. Mint at the tap;
chives; capsicums. A length of net at
one side, with the climbing beans be-
ginning to tendril their way up it: the
camouflage netting the ladies spent so
much time and energy on in the war:
disposals stuff. Down both sides, the
low sandstone walls.
A made garden ; enforced there in the
rock. Green oblongs and circles set in
the tawny stone. The jagged sandstone
bed-borders and flat levels of the stone
between giving it a distincti/e kind of
bareness. A meticulously clean effect, as
if kept regularly swept. Blue sky watch-
ing above it; deeper-blue spread of
harbor reaches away below.
At the top, a bank of all colors made
by the bed of phlox stretching right
across ; red and orange cascade of nastur-
tiums flowing from them on to the steep-
sloped outcrop of old lion’s body of
stone, with cut steps leading down over
the curve. These flowers above an
attempted invasion by the house garden.
The steps the beginning of old Sam the
gardener’s own jealously-held domain.
The path Sam has contrived spiralling
down in a turning zigzag from side to
side, winding about the rock-held beds ;
serving, too, as part of his irrigation
scheme, when he turns the tap on and
lets the water course its way down. -
OLD SAM himself is at work with the
hoe in the fresh-turned bed about
half-way down. At least he is idling
there ; hoe doing nothing in the prepared
bed that spade and rake have not already
done better. Sam grows out of the bed.
Earth-marked green army trousers and
shirt, more disposals ; sleeves rolled on
his shanky arms; green beret on his
narrow head ; wide-laced army boots sunk
into the damp soil.
On the bed a foot or two in front of
him a black-and-white peewee, so matey
that Sam has to move the hoe carefully
not to hurt him. He acts like a tamed
bird. You’d say, thinks Sam, he’d known
me all his life. Yet he is a new come-
up in the garden. Sam himself, in the
massy gold sunshine, is like a freak
growth held up by his sloping hoe. He
looks to belong there. But the bird is
something else. Something Sam’s thoughts
haven’t quite decided on. A strayed
fragment torn by the wind out of the
night and moon and flung there.
Sam, as usual at this time at the end
of the week, looks out over the lower
gum-tops and house-roofs falling down
to the water, across the forked reaches
of the harbor to the far parade-row of
pine-trees guarding the seaside town.
Sam will be going there in another hour
or so, to get a breath of fresh air, as he
says, and have a few beers, this being
the usual afternoon programme on Satur-
days.
Sam says he likes what is usual, now.
He has had all the excitement he wants.
He likes very much the thought of the
few beers. They foam lovely and full
of sweetness in his mind. He can’t take
as many now as he could once. They go
to his head. They stir some violence in
him. But life wouldn’t be the same
without them. They are something to
cling to. They are Saturday afternoon.
The thought of them now makes Sam
happy. He feels already uplifted and
buoyant. He wants to break out of him-
self and talk. All he keeps close under
lock and key breaks loose and swirls
about him. Through the swirl he watches
the bird stepping and pecking about at
his feet.
“Whoever you are,” he says, “there’s
plenty of earth turned up fresh to keep
you goin’. D’ you hear? And you can
get a drink in the pool under the tap.”
THE black-and-white fragment taking
no notice of this information, Sam
lifts the hoe an inch or two and pushes
it towards him. “You,” he says, “do
you hear? The tap drips.”
Aware now that he has been spoken
to, the peewee looks up over the rim of
the hoe, not turning his head but gazing
up sideways through the white-ringed
eye nearest to Sam. It is a steady, fixed
look, with no more expression ih it than
the end of a telescope.
“All right,” says Sam; “don’t talk
if you don’t want to. I mightn’t under-
stand you if you did, so it don’t matter.
I was just tellin’ you—this is Saturday.
D’ you savvy? . . . Saturday!”
Sam drags a small furrow with the hoe
near the bird’s feet and looks down more
closely- at him. The bird posing for in-
spection. Shiny black top of head and
black throat; white cheeks and black-
and-white body and tail.
“Y* know,” Sam says, conversation-
ally. “I’ve known somebody like you
somewhere sometime or other. Someone
I knew pretty well. I’ll place you
directly.”
This implied invitation to make a clean
breast of it has no effect whatever on
Moonrag the peewee. He still stands
his ground though the hoe is almost
touching him. He keeps his eye fastened
on Sam in a glassy stare.
A hush drops on the garden. Moon-
rag, the bean-beds and staked tomatoes,
the sun sparkles and the sky, wait, listen-
ing-
Sam’s face, brown skin over bones, is
lighted with a thought. He draws the
hoe away a little so that he can see all
of Moonrag. He puts the question direct :
“I say now . . . listen ... You wouldn’t
by any chance be Trooper, would you,?
Eh, would you?” he insists, pushing the
hoe in little' jerks at the peewee.
MOONRAG, head cocking from side
to side, takes a few steps away
along the furrow; halts, pokes his beak
in the air, and lets out a sharp “P-e-ek! ”
He turns his head sideways and looks
back at Sam; a straight gaze of empty
lunacy. “P-e-ek!” he further remarks.
“Pe-ek!”
“I suppose,” Sam comments. “You
know what you’re talkin’ about. I’m
damned if I do. What is it, eh? Are
you sayin’ you’re Trooper or aren’t you?
That’s right now, that’s a bit of sense”
—Moonrag taking a short flight up to
the top of a tomato-stake —“save me
straining my neck.”
Now face to face, barely two feet from
Sam straightening up, Moonrag drops all
reticence and becomes suddenly voluble.
“P-e-ek! K-e-ek!” he shouts, his voice
fairly shaking the sunshine. Opening his
wings to keep his balance and adding
very shrilly “P-we-e-e! P-we-e-e!”
“All right,” Sam concedes sceptically.
“Have it your own way. You’re saying
you’re Trooper or you aren’t Trooper,
whichever it is. Y’ know,” a strong hint
of threat coming into Sam’s voice, “if
you’re Trooper I could soon find out!
Couldn’t I, eh?”
“K-e-ek! P-e-ek!” Moonrag retorts
with some shortness. His bent toes grip
the top of the tomato-stake. He opens
one black-and-white wing wide, part-
opens the other, and folds them down
again. There is threat in this, too; he
can break off the conversation any minute
he doesn’t like it.
Sam is not to be bluffed by any bird
tactics. “You know I could soon find
out, don’t you?” he repeats. “You know
as well as I do.”
Either seeing this as the direct chal-
lenge it is meant to be, or else just for
fun, Moonrag Peewee lifts his wings, rises
flapping a few feet into the hir, hovers
over Sam’s head, and lights back on the
inch-square top of the tomato-stake. He
finishes pretending to chew what he pre-
tends to have caught, wipes the side of
his beak on his left shoulder, and gazes
fixedly at Sam. His expression, if any,
is bland. He seems to think he has
brought off a nice piece of repartee.
Tactics again wasted on Sam. His
thought has found a trail and won’t be
put off it as easily as all that. Up the
path the tap drips into the mint-edged
pool. The yellow butter-beans peep out
along the green rows. A plane droning
somewhere in the sky. A cedar-red
speedboat flashing from its comet wake of
foam down on the harbor. Sam is not
to be put off by these, either. Moonrag
has shifted perch, by a quick move of
his feet; as if he prefers watching and
carrying on conversation side-on. Sam
thus sees the tiny miniature of his own
pinpoint of face mirrored inside the white-
ringed eye. Sam is inside there, finding
out. Listening for signs of Trooper or
his voice.
Moonrag lifts a foot and puts it down
again, crossing his toes on top of the
stake. He bobs his black-topped head
up and down, moving the mirror. It
has an effect on Sam.
“No,” he tells Moonrag bluntly.
“You’re not Trooper at all. You’re only
just an impostor.”
The tone of anger gets a definite re-
sponse. “K-e-ek!” shouts Moonrag.
“P-e-ek! K-e-ek! ”
“Yes?” Sam taunts him. “Well, I
don’t believe you! Damned if I do.
You’re talkin’ through your hat.”
Insult direct. Moonrag accepts it
moodily on his stake-top. He casts a
glance down sideways into the tomato-
foliage, as if, perhaps, the missing
Trooper might be there, in a green bug.
Mollified by this evident humility, Sam
tries conciliation. “Y’ know,” he says
in expressive friendliness, “if they saw
you here talkin’ to me they’d reckon you
was mad.”
“K-e-ek!” Moonrag shouts recklessly,
flapping his wings and adding a loudly
defiant “P-we-e-ee!” Let them think
what they like;
Sam turns these remarks over in his
mind, without making much out of them.
The sandstone lies warming its ribbed old
body in the sun. The green circles of
cucumbers make a pretence of drooping,
malingering in the warmth. Heat haze
rising down on the reaches of the shim-
mering water. Sky drowsing a, little, too.
THE far pine-trees have gone farther
away. So has Sam, A long way
away. In the haze swirling about him;
swirl of white-ringed eyes and his face
inside them: he is with Trooper in a
strange and familiar place. He has come
to this strange place after Trooper. It
is a hole scooped out of gravel on the
ridge of a hill, and Trooper is in it with
him. A scared Trooper, frightened
stiff at a pair of boots, with their toes
pointed up and their soles towards him
a few yards out from the edge of the
hole.
Sam is beginning to feel a bit that way
himself. “What’s a pair of boots?” he
reasons with Trooper, and himself. “They
can’t hurt you.”
Sam thinking to himself; You were in
a hell of a hurry to get here, sliding down
a rope from the troopship to the
destroyer. Cornin’ ashore with the other
mob, in case your own lot wouldn’t be in
it, and the war’d be all over and you’d
have missed it. And now you’re starin’
mad at a pair of boots,
“Look at them!” Trooper muttering.
“They moved again. I’m goin’ to put
a bullet in ’em!”
“Are you goin’ off your rocker?” Sam
asks him. “He’s been dead for days.”
“He’s wakin’ up!” Trooper still mut-
tering. “You can tell”
“You can tell nothin’,” Sam insist-
ing. “He won’t wake.” He grabs
Trooper’s arm and pulls at it, getting it
away from his face, “Stop chewin’ your
hand, will you?” Pleading with him.
“You’re bloody near got your thumb bit
off.”
li OOTS,” Trooper insisting, glaring
*—' at the torn side of his hand. “Size
fen.”
“Size ten be damned,” Sam laughing
mockery at such nonsense. “They’re
nowhere near tens. They’re eights at the
outside. Tens is big.”
“They’re tens.” Trooper taking an-
other bite at his torn hand; saying
savagely, “Stuck there outside the tent!”
“Listen,” Sam reasons with him.
“There’s no tent. I’m not that bats.
They’re stickin’ out of a bit of prickly
bush.”
“They’re always stickin’ out of the tent.
He sleeps with them on,” Trooper half-
howls it.
“Shut up, for God’s sake!” Sam get-
ting edgy. “You’ll have me like you in
a minute. And stop chewin’ your hand.
Here, have a biscuit!”
“I’ll kill him,” Trooper mutters at the
biscuit. “If he is me father. I’ll kill him.”
“For God’s sake,” Sam grabbing
Trooper’s wrist and holding it away from
his mouth with a tight grip. “Listen to
reason, boy. You’re here. You’re here
with me. Sam, You’re Trooper, see.
Get hold of yourself. We’re in this
flamin’ hole here together. We’re all
right, aren’t we? Forget about your
old man and the bloody tent and his
boots stickin’ out of it. That’s just a
dead man out there, I tell you. He’s been
dead for days. He can’t be more than
a skeleton.”
He feels Trooper shaking, clenching
the held, bleeding fist. He gives him a
shake himself. “That’s right, get hold
of yourself,” he says, “Forget about
’em.”
“Leave my mother alone. Leave her
alone and take your hands off me, too.”
Trooper whimpers it, trying to break
free.
“There’s no her about it,” Sam
patiently reassuring him. “Her? That’s
damn’ funny, here! Look, just get this.
This is you and me. We, us and com-
pany. You’re Trooper. I’m Sam. We’re
all right.” Sam starting to laugh,
“Strewth, you’re a funny bloke, you are.
You had me damn’ near scared. You’re
right, eh? We’re right, aren’t we? Right
as rain,”
<‘ D AIN. Peltin’ rain!” Trooper is
1\ still there, a boy back at the tent
watching his father. “Out in the rain
preachin’ to the gum-trees. Him preach,
Walkin’ up and down from the iron-
bark to the gum-tree, shoutin’ out prayers
to them. Yes, that’s right; tie me to
the tent-pole. So I can’t run away,
not runnin’ away. I’m stayin’ here.’
“ ’Course you’re stayin’ here,” Sam
breaks in on him. “So am I, too. So is
Boots out there. The three of us.”
“That’s right. Yes—three of us.
A three Sam hasn’t heard about; com-
ing up out of Trooper’s boyhood : “Go
and pray in the bush. Go and sing out
your prayers. Can’t you hear the jack-
asses laughing at you? No. You cant
hear anything. You can’t hear me!’
Trooper’s raised voice going down
again to a mutter. Sam easing the tight
grip on his wet wrist a little. Looking
at Trooper’s closed eyes.
“That’s all right now,” Sam reassur-
ing himself as well, “We’re rigid as pie
All you want is a bit of sleep.”
Trooper’s voice rising from its mutter-
ing. His eyes opening, staring. “He is
asleep. He’s always asleep with his boots
on stuck outside the tent. Round bit ot
tent there. That’s his head.”
“All right, all right,” Sam joining him
at the {ent. “That round bit’s his head.
Why don’t you up with a rock and smash
it to bloody pulp? Nice and round and
waitin’ for you.”
“What’s up with you ? ’ Trooper star-
ing hard at him. “I’m all right. What
are you holding me for? Let me alone.
Sam grabs at him, and the piece ot rag
tears away in his hand. Trooper ou
there clear in the open. Rifle held nign
over his head. Clubbing it down. There s
a fierce burst of shooting from all alon,
the line. . T
Sam has them in his periscope. iw«
pairs of boots. Tangled together.
“So you killed him, did you? shouts
Sam. “Serve him damn’ well right.
That’ll learn him to go preachm toJ
trees. What’d he have to preaco
about?”
SAM certainly has been a long wa?
away. He startles Moonrag Peewes,
shouting like that in the garden.
(i Continued on page 3j.\


The Bulletin
Vol. 70—No. 3600
Wednesday, February 9, 1949
ALONG THE SOCIALIST TRACK.
“No, mate. YOU saved it; I’LL drink it.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Ma»”
Directors;
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
STANDING FROM UNDER.
To all intents and purposes the campaign
for the Federal elections to be held (it is
tipped) next December will begin this
week with the resumption of the Parlia-
mentary session. All parties are com-
pleting selection of their candidates, and
every detail of the Government’s pro-
gramme for the session will be arranged
to serve one purpose only—the manoeuvr-
ing for position in the election fight.
Mr. Dedman has just been telling
the public, through the A.L.P.’s country
conference in Melbourne, that none of
the three main charges which the Liberal
and Country parties may be expected to
bring against Federal “Labor” have any
validity. These charges, he said, would
be that the Chifley Government had
Done nothing to combat Communism;
Done nothing to increase production;
Done nothing to the credit of Australia
in foreign policy. 1
There is nothing the Federal Govern-
ment could do about any of these
charges, because, said Mr. Dedman,
only the States could combat Commun-
ism, only the States could increase
production, and there was no possible
foreign policy for the Commonwealth
but to “support” U.N.O. If U.N.O. led
us into a mess, in other words,
that would be just too bad, but there
nothing “Labor” or any other party
could do about it. It is doubtful whether
any other thick-skinned “Labor” humbug
would have had the hide to try to put
over such palpable eyewash. But Mr.
Dedman is specially armorplated by
nature for this sort of bluff and bluster.
Still, Mr. Chifley adds his own contri-
bution to the astonishing alibi with a
“plan to counter inflation,” There is, he
conveys, nothing that the Government
can do to check the inflation it has
directly brought about. The remedy, he
says, lies with the consuming public.
Every Australian citizen is exhorted to
show gratitude for his or her new legiti-
macy conferred under statute by saying
more, buying less, and —may Mr. Chifley
please be permitted to add? —working
harder. Only a mass conversion to
frugality (the Chifley Government ex-
cepted), and the refusal of every mere
elector to buy anything for which he
cannot pay cash, will, together of course
with his vote at the elections for this
larrikin Canberra mob, reduce prices
and pull the country round. If the
Australian housewife must make a lay-
by, let it be one in the Socialist “Golden
Age,” where such things as moth and
rust —if you can believe it —do not
corrupt.
This penitent-stool stuff, uttered by way
of seeking a further popular vote of
confidence in a Chifley Government
which admits it can do nothing to get us
out of the Socialist-made bog, is no good
to Mr. A. Augustus Calwell. Like Mark
Antony in another crisis, he is but “a
plain, blunt man.” “Vote for us again
this time,” he says in effect, “and nothing
can shift us from office till 1960. Vote
for us now and great numbers of you
will not have another chance to put us
out for the rest of your lives. We’ve
rigged the new Senate so that, even if
you are dead against our policy, you
won’t be able to alter it; so what’s the
good of voting against us anyway?” In
his own language before the A.L.P.
country conference it read:
At the elections this year eyen if “Labor”
were to lose in the Lower House, it must
have a majority of 33 to 27 in the Senate,
even if it lost every possible vote.
That means the Opposition [being elected
to power by the people] will not be able to
repeal any Acts such as the [socialisation]
Bank Act, social services, or change the
taxation incidence . . .
If “Labor” is elected this year it
will be in till about 1960.
Well, that is plain enough. If the
Australian people want socialisation of
everything, and another ten years of
inflation, “organised scarcity,” soaring
prices and war-time taxation imposts,
then let them vote for Mr. Chifley and
his Socialist outfit on the first Satur-
day (it is tipped) of next December.
Mr. Chifley’s broadcast early last week
must have fallen like a bombshell on his
party. So many of his followers thought
they had hit on the very line for the
election platform. Caucus members had
tried it out during the Budget debate late
last year. The temporary difficulties of
the Hollway Government in Victoria,
and the “ ‘Labor’ victory” in the Prahran
by-election, had revved the thing up con-
siderably. Then Mr. Chifley, with his
“National Savings Plan” appeal, ran it
straight into the ditch.
Only a week earlier “Labor” leaders
in Victoria, including the A.L.P.’s alleg-
edly shrewd campaign director, Mr.
Kennelly—who said that for an expendi-
ture of £150,000 he could “sell ‘Labor’ ”
to the electors —had plumped for rising
prices as a certain “Labor” winner. At
last year’s referendum —so the argument
was to run —the people had turned down
Mr. Chifley’s advice; they had accepted
the Opposition argument (which coin-
cided with that of two State “Labor”
Premiers) that the States could control
prices if given a fair chance; and now
the people were sorry. They realised
that Mr. Chifley was right all along, and
prices had risen simply because control
over them had not been transferred for
all time to a central bureaucracy in
Canberra. Hence the electors would vote
for the Chifley Government in sheer
remorse. That was the story “Labor”
was going to put over. In Victoria it
looked good, but not so good for the
time being in N. S. Wales, where Mr.
McGirr was not ready to eat his words
of a year ago in favor of State control,
and his Prices Minister, chairman of the
States’ Ministerial prices committee, was
actually saying (just like a Liberal)
that inflated prices simply followed Can-
berra’s default in payment of Federal
subsidies. Nevertheless, the A.L.P.’s
official journal in N. S. Wales joined the
Kennelly-Cain bandwagon with joyful
shouts.
What they, and Mr. Chifley’s own
Caucus, are now saying under their
breath about their “imperturbable leader”
is anybody’s guess. For Mr. Chifley in
his widely-publicised broadcast of last
week did not once mention the “No”
vote as the cause of rising prices. Instead
he declared the causes to be too much
money in the people’s pockets, the
mistaken popular conviction that the
thing to do is to spend the modern
Chifley quid before its value should
decrease further (though Mr. Chifley did
not put it quite like that), and the failure
of industry to increase production. If
that is not dropping a brick, then
“Labor” has “regulated” the law of
gravity, too.
Excommunications have been known
in “the movement” for lesser heresies.
Now Mr. Chifley is abolishing national
savings certificates —he does not rake in
any taxation off their increase in the tax-
payers’ hands —while he still would
induce people to save. He wants them
also to abstain from buying, and above
all not to buy luxuries on time-payment.
He wants the recipients of to-day’s in-
flated wages to “bank their money,”
to “buy bonds, pay insurance premiums”
(insurance businesses are down for
socialisation next), and “hold on to what
they save.” But even so —
Unless production is increased there will
be no widespread relief from shortages
and high prices. *
Apart from the fact that Mr. Chifley
cannot, after two years of effort, get
more work out of the unions, especially
from the coalminers, whose limited pro-
duction places limits on everybody else’s
output, the internal evidence from Mr.
Chifley’s appeal is that the inflationary
influences which he deliberately set
going, by unpegging wages and by using
his influence to shorten the working week,
are now beyond his control and the Aus-
tralian people must have themselves as
well as their money. Worse still:
He has no intention of practising the
frugality he preaches.
He will not lift direct or indirect taxation
until at-earliest next July, and then only as
election bait.
He is still taking' labor into overmanned
Government departments while he laments
the shortage of hands for industry and
production.
He will abate neither sales taxes which
bear enormously upon current prices, nor
his petrol excise of lid. on every gallon
of petrol used, of which levy but a fraction
is spent on the statutory purpose, the
upkeep of roads.
He still draws some £26,000,000 or more
in taxation for payment of subsidies to
keep down prices of commodities, which
subsidies he has refused to pay out since
the referendum.
His Government is spending money with
both hands on every wild-cat Socialist
scheme, including now a plan to nationalise
shipping and set up another Government
Shipping Line.
By no means his least offence is that,
while he is appealing for national unity
in this cause, he is deliberately throwing
the community into dissension by per-
sisting in socialisation scheme's which the
majority of the Australian people have,
by all means so far available to them,
shown that they will not tolerate.
If Mr. Chifley were sincere, he would
admit candidly that his “Golden Age”
is a blue duck, and that either his
Government must be able to command
sufficient coal to meet the country’s
needs, or it must get out. Even the pub-
licity officer of the Chifley-McGirr Joint
Coal Board warned the Federal Govern-
merit the other day that if it didn’t get
coal it would probably be pushed out.
Specious and Empty.
The only novelty about Marshal Stalin’s
latest “peace offer” was the general scep-
ticism with which it was received by the
world at large. In its technique the
Marshal followed his normal procedures.
At a moment when it appeared that the
Western Defence bloc would extend to
Norway and to the very borders of
Russia itself, the head of a large news
syndicate was somehow inspired to submit
a questionnaire to the Kremlin’s
mysterious chieftain. The day before
Moscow, through more than one of its
agencies, had made a violent attack on the
Western Powers, describing them as a
“grouping pursuing aggressive aims.”
Moscow spoke —with the voice of Mr.
Vishinsky’s Foreign Office —of “the anti-
democratic reactionary and aggressive
character of the Western Union....
combined... .to reject the anti-aggressive
policy regarding Germany adopted at
Yalta.” It had been added that Russia
still stood by that policy—a hypocritical
piece of prevarication, especially just at
a moment when it had become clear that
the U.S.S.R. had shifted most of the
German facilities, including personnel,
for building aggressive types of aircraft
forcibly to Russia, where they were be-
ing employed at full steam. But to
Moscow’s clumsy leader his interchange
of views with Mr. Smith, of the Interna-
tional News Service, apparently did not
seem out of accord with the previous day’s
tirade and with his bullying attitude to
Scandinavia, which was virtually told
that it must refrain from accepting the
means to protect itself.
Mr. Kingsbury Smith obligingly asked
Marshal Stalin four questions.
First was whether the U.S.S.R.
would be prepared to consider a joint
declaration with the U.S. Government
that the respective Governments have no
intention of resorting to war against each
other. Mr. Stalin answered, as he would
have answered at any old time, that he
was prepared to consider such a declara-
tion.
The next query was whether the Soviet
would be prepared to join the United
States “in measures designed to imple-
ment this pact of peace, such as dis-
armament.” That one was answered with
the straightforwardness of a very active
electric eel. Mr. Stalin will “co-operate
with the United States Government to
implement a peace pact leading to
gradual disarmament.”
Dr. Evatt’s U.N.O. has been writhing
in agony for the past two years trying
to establish such a pact, and it has always
been thwarted because of Russian trickery
or veto. The U.S.S.R. and its leader are
certainly in favor of peace by gradual
disarmament, and so is the rest of the
world, a universal ambition im-
possible to achieve because of a
clear-cut split between the Western
Democracies and Moscow on procedure.
All favor “gradual” disarmament, but the
Western Powers have an odd notion that
the only safe way in which disarmament
could be carried out would be for the
whole world to begin together and pro-
ceed in unison, whereas the Russian view-
point is that the first stage in implement-
ing the “gradual” plan would be for the
rest of the nations to disarm first, the
U.S.S.R. to follow at its own discretion.
The third question—which obviously
formed the meat in the coconut —was
whether the Soviet Government would
be prepared to remove its traffic restric-
tions upon Berlin if the three Western
Powers would agree to postpone, until a
meeting of the Foreign Ministers Council
to consider the German problem as a
whole, the establishment of a Western
German State. There was an air of
studied carelessness about the reply:
Provided the United States, Great Britain
and France observed the conditions in the
third question, the Soviet Government sees
no obstacle to lifting transport restrictions,
on the understanding, however, that the
transport and trade restrictions which the
three Powers introduced should be lifted
simultaneously.
Again thefe are enough loopholes to
fill a sieve—but, as well, there is an ad-
mission that the transport regulations of
Berlin are actually a subject of inter-
national bargaining about Western Ger-
many and not merely the emanation
of local necessity as always has been
alleged, except on one occasion, by
Moscow. Stalin did express willingness
to withdrawing the. regulations in August
last, without any agreement by the
Western Allies about Western Germany,
but his “agreement” was cynically broken
as soon as the Western delegates had left
Moscow. The Western Allies have always
made it clear that withdrawal of the
Berlin blockade must precede discussion
of Western Germany. They were
emphatic to Dr. Evatt on the point.
The final question asked the Fiihrer of
the Moskva was whether he was pre-
pared to meet President Truman at a
mutually suitable place to discuss the
chances of concluding a pact. Stalin did
not say “Yes” in plain language. He
said that “he had already stated that there
was no objection to such a meeting.”
Mr. Truman made it plain that
he would be glad to see him in
Washington and—despite the assurance
of the Sydney “Tribune,” official organ of
the Australian Communist party, that he
was a hale and hearty soul—Mr. Stalin
replied, through a newspaper syndicate,
of course, that though he was burning to
go to Washington, his doctors advised
him not to suffer the exertion of broach-
ing the Iron Curtain. Behind the Curtain,
however, at some point where totali-
tarian censorship could be imposed and
Red Guards could surround him 20-deep,
such as Yalta, Kaliningrad, Odessa, Yalta
or in Poland or Czechoslovakia, he was
prepared to confer with the President.
The singular thing about these interro-
gations, apart from the obvious insincerity
and indefiniteness of the answers from
the Kremlin, does not lie in the actual
exchanges which took place, but in those
which did not, and in the lack of ade-
quate reference to previous attempts at
rapprochement. Nobody seems to re-
member that the U.S.S.R. and Britain
are bound to peaceful relations by the
Anglo-Soviet Treaty of 1942, which, apart
from the rosily-colored relationships of
U.N.0., binds the contracting nations, in
Mr. Molotov’s words, “in peaceful
settlement and collaboration conceived
on the lines of the basic principles of the
well-known Atlantic Charter.” And no
questionnaire ever includes an inquiry as
to whether Moscow is willing to jettison
the Communist objective of world revolu-
tion with—the phrase is Stalin’s own—
“ Moscow as a base....the place of
refuge and school for the revolutionary
representatives of the rising proletariat.”
The whole “peace” affair is, of course,
a gigantic spoof, stale in smell; time and
again the Great Dictator has tried
to work it in one form or another to
delude prospective victims of what
he has called “the inevitable victory
of Leninism and of the Third Inter-
national' over the world’s social demo-
cracy.”
Arguments by the Canadian represen-
tative in U.N.O. when Mr. Gromyko
came forward in October, 1947, display-
ing a similar trap and shouting about
“the criminal propaganda for a new war
....continuing open appeals for aggres-
sion against the peace-loving democratic
countries” — i.e., Russia, Poland, Bulgaria,
Albania and the like—are worth recalling.
The Canadians said that among the
incentives to war which should be con-
demned was “the spreading of false and
malicious reports by one country about
the activities of another.” They declared
that Canada had had some experience of
this, and had been “discouraged in her
sincere wish for friendly relations with
the people of the Soviet Union” upon
learning of “false and malicious reports
about our country; statements designed
to stir up ill-feeling toward and misunder-
standing about our people, and which in
that sense might be termed warmonger-
ing”:—
The official Soviet Government has said
that German prisoners-of-war and the
Government of Canada [a Government
which, incidentally, helped to capture these
prisoners] form a “kinship of Nazi souls.
The Soviet people, who seem to have only
one source of news, are told that my
country is using its supplies of wheat to
profiteer at the expense of starving Euro-
peans, although the Soviet officials must
know that Canada, when it has not been
giving wheat away as relief, has been selling
it abroad at one, two or three dollars a
bushel below the price charged certain
other countries. They have also been
told —though Soviet officials and press
representatives in Canada know it is
untrue, since we let people travel wherever
they will to find out things—that, instead ot
a few hundreds of U.S. troops being on
our soil, there are great formations or
Americans; that we have sold ourselves out
to the U.S.A.—“lackeys of Wall Street
is their favorite if unoriginal expression
and that we have allowed large foreign
military and air bases to be established on
our territory from which the U.b.b.w- is
to be attacked.
“The whole picture,” the Canadian
spokesman said, “is being distorted to
build up enmity to my country. And
he pointed out that when they came along
with resolutions to prevent warmongering
the Soviet diplomats obviously did not
have this particular kind of warmonger-
ing in mind, or that other “most insidious
and evil” kind of war-atmosphere promo-
tion which could be described as civil-
warmongering,” a kind which wor ' e
in the dark, its aim to stir up domestic
strife, to set class against class, to turn
peoples against their freely elected Gov-
ernments, to instil hatreds and fears ani ,
in short, to do everything that can be
done to stir up unrest which will lead to
revolution and civil war.
This, remarked the Canadian represen-
tative, was perhaps “the worst kind ot
warmongering of all.” ; n
It is going on now just as busily as m
1947. Especially in Australia, whos
Government is the least condemned of all
British Governments by the lying propa-
gandists of Moscow.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Chrfley Humbug.
Ever since Mr. Chifley, yielding to union
pressure-groups, unpegged wages while
continuing to peg prices, The Bulletin
has declared him a humbug. His subse-
quent mixing of an unauthorised socialisa-
tion programme with the financial plan-
ning of his economic advisers supported
the charge. Now his own actions have
clinched it.
The “Labor” party which he leads —
if leadership in compliance with irre-
sponsible orders from the ranks can be
called by that name —has spent 18 years
in condemning the deflation policy in
1930-32 which its own Government de-
vised with the “Premiers’ Plan.” De-
flation has accordingly been anathema to
Mr. Chifley and his post-war planning
staff. Inflation rather was to be the cure
for the next depression, and even the
right dope for prosperity. Now, having
deliberately boosted rising prices by un-
pegging wages, shortening the working
week and finally throwing his own sub-
sidised price-control to the winds, Mr.
Chifley has released a bottle-imp of in-
flation which he can no longer control.
Yet he must make some attempt to check
it, and his “automatic savings plan” (so
called) is his idea of doing so.
He does not yet intend to follow
the advice himself, but he wants all em-
ployers, farmers, bondholders and the
general public as consumers to do so.
He bids them avoid purchases on time-
payment, refrain indeed from any pur-
chases at all that they can do without, to
amass all the credit-value possible in their
possession by paying off old debts and
incurring no new ones. Yet before today
“Labor” has howled that that sort of
counsel was utterly “deflationary,”
Not only does Mr. Chifley exempt his
own Government from obligation to
follow this advice, but his Common-
wealth Bank, designed by and subject
now to Treasury influence, is directly
flouting Mr. Chifley’s admonitions by in-
stigating the general public to launch
into new debt as fast as it can. Mr.
Chifley’s bank, through its industrial
finance department, has been by circular
and press advertisements driving “aggres-
sively into the field of private hire-
purchase and other finance companies,”
as “S. M. Herald” declares, and is still
doing so. In two and a half years this
department has issued over £Bl million
to small borrowers (“little capitalists,” as
Mr. Dedman would say), as compared
with less than £?1 million by two lead-
ing private corporations during the past
20 years.
The Commonwealth Bank is enabled to
develop this fierce competition because
the funds it uses for the purpose incur
almost no interest charges, while private
concerns must work on bank-overdrafts.
This boosting by the Commonwealth
Bank of the public’s ready-enough dis-
position to spend any money it can lay
hold of is a glaring contradiction of the
new Chifley frugality appeal. Let it be
repeated that Mr. Chifley is a humbug
and a menace to national rehabilitation.
Australia has borne with him too
long to have any hope of returning, under
his Government, to industrial recovery
and orderly progress.
Savings and Production.
Commenting on Mr. Chifley’s public-
savings campaign, A. W. Fadden sug-
gested that the Government itself should
start the ball rolling by “abolishing re-
dundant departments and overhauling
others,” slashing External Affairs globe-
trotting missions, and abandoning social-
istic enterprises, adding: “It could stop
trying to make Oxford B.As. out of New
Guinea natives at a cost of millions, and
abolish scholarships for pro-Communistic
Asiatics. Last year it could have saved
£2.7 million on the subsidised N.Z. wheat
contract.”
Still in good form, Fadden concluded:
. tn his appeal, Mr. Chifley revealed no
intention or scheme on the part of his
Government to do any saving itself as a
fitting example to the individuals to whom
he appealed.
If people are to save for security, they
must be assured of security for their savings.
Lnless Mr. Chifley and his Government
are prepared to tackle the problem of
inadequate production, which is the basic
cause of inflation, the people will not have
S r eC , Ur^ y ‘ 11 is generally accepted that
Governmental expenditure is an
w P? rta !) t . contributor towards inflation,
rmrik 15 a fl° we< l to continue, large
mbers of people are naturally attracted
f Vernment employment, with the result
f. re available to produce the real
weattn of the community.
Taking the theme up from there, the
Prime Minister should be able to treat
the community to a darned interesting
reside talk. That is, if he is prepared
to discuss our real economic problems at
"Our Foreign Policy."
It is easy to imagine the howls of indig-
nation Dr. Evatt would be raising if Mr.
Menzies, as Minister for External Affairs,
were to treat Parliament in the cavalier
Evatt fashion.
The misconduct of external affairs in a
region where another Minister’s control
has now brought a clash makes imperative
a clear exposition from the Treasury
benches of the principles (if any) which
guide Our Foreign Policy. Whatever
good the MacMahon Bail mission of
goodwill may have done last year in
South East Asia is rapidly being undone
by Mr. Calwell’s reckless and offensive
treatment of individual Asiatics for some
time resident in Australia. He has even
contravened a provision of his own new
Citizenship Act.
Without any reference whatever to Par-
liament, Dr. Evatt presented Australia
(through Dr. Burton) at Delhi as the
friend of Southern Asians against legi-
timate European interests. The reper-
cussions of this splay-footed intru-
sion into an issue of great delicacy for
most of the Governments of the Western
Union were ignored. The Communists
running the Javanese guerrilla campaign
against the Dutch hailed the Australian
Government, pretending neutrality, as
their sympathetic friend and ally. Then
Mr. Calwell stepped in and started order-
ing out of Australia Malays and Indo-
nesians in a fashion that proclaimed his
view of the White Australia policy to be
pinpricking and offensive, and not in the
least economic, as Dr, Evatt, through Dr.
Burton, had been explaining to Pandit
Nehru.
Canberra heard without a qualm
Nehru threaten reprisals against the
Dutch on behalf of the Delhi conference.
CASE FOR AN INQUIRY.
"Don’t you think, Mr. Chifley, that it’s time we took a swab of that horse?”
It would be no great step for Nehru to
take the same stand against Mr. Calwell’s
mischievous and offensive handling of
this country’s vital White Australia
policy. Mr. Calwell is trying to smother
up that issue by picking a new quarrel
with the Dutch by “demanding” that they
grant a visa for entry into the N.E.I. of
one whom they regard, by law, as no
longer a citizen, and who looks much
more like an Australian citizen under Mr.
Calwell’s new Act.
Parliament has a right to know from
some responsible Minister what our
foreign policy is, who directs it, and
whether the Government means to con-
tinue refusing to seek Parliamentary
approval for any of it. If, as we have
been told, it is based on decisions made
at U.N.0., does a vote at U.N.O. govern
Canberra’s administration of the White
Australia element in that policy? Which-
ever way you look at it, under “Labor” —
by Evatt and by Calwell —our White
Australia policy is being jeopardised.
Lovers' Quarrel in Victoria.
The Victorian political merry-go-round
still goes round and round without
getting anywhere in particular. The
Liberal and Country parties alternate be-
tween a policy of kiss-and-make-up and
one of I’ll-never-speak-to-you-again, and
“Labor” sits hopefully by trying to con-
vince itself that the break is final and
irrevocable, and must lead to a general
election in which it might pick up a few
seats. The Prahran by-election really
cast no light at all on the situation,
and “Labor” had no great reason for re-
joicing over retaining by some 500 votes
a seat it held by fewer than 100 in the
landslide of 15 months ago. After the
by-election party strengths were Liberal,
28 ; Country party, 20; “Labor,” 16;
Independent, 1 ; with the Liberals on the
Treasury benches and the C.P. and
“Labor” in Opposition, but not in
alliance.
Hollway’s Liberals had suggested an
amalgamation plan to the Country party,
Hollway himself offering to stand down
pending the election of a leader by the
proposed new party. Officially the
Country party scorned the suggestion, but
several individual members had different
views about it
At the beginning of last week the main
moves were within the C.P. First
Mr. Hipworth, M.L.A. for Swan
Hill, resigned from the party. Fol-
lowed a long yarn with party-leader Mc-
Donald, which failed to bring the rebel
back to the fold. Then Mf. Guye,
member for Polwarth, sent in his resigna-
tion, saying he intended to support the
Government. In his letter he told the
party that
the intriguing of Sir Albert Dunstan, which
has led to continual bickering, and which
has led to divisions within the party, to-
gether with the party’s decision, on the
casting-vote of the leader, to sit in
Opposition, has forced me to the realisa-
tion that I have lost all confidence in the
leadership of the party.
Mr. Guye was Whip and Parliamentary
secretary of the C.P. Two Legisla-
tive Councillors, Lienhop and Lansell,
also resigned, ex-Senator Fraser an-
nounced that he was getting out, too ; and
by the week-end it was generally accepted
that two more M.L.As. —Hedditch (Port-
land) and Mibus (Boning)—who had been
in conference with Liberal leaders, were
only awaiting the consent of their district
committees before joining the other four
“rebels,” The attitude of all six Parlia-
mentarians was that they had been elected
on a platform of co-operation with the
Liberal party.
Premier Hollway announced that dur-
ing the coming session his Government
would submit a programme dealing with
expansion in brown-coal and hydro-
electric works, extension of secondary in-
dustry in the country, development of out-
ports, increased water-conservation and a
step-up in the building of homes, hospitals
and schools. He claimed that there was
no real reason for conflict between town
and country interests, and that Socialism
and Communism could best be fought by
a united front. Mr. McDonald’s view
was that the Liberals were out to smash
the Country party.
There at the moment the matter stands,
with anti-Socialist forces in other States
looking on in dismay, and hoping for
some miracle such as a decision by Albert
Dunstan to become an Arctic explorer.
Pending such a happy solution they draw
what comfort they can from Queensland,
where after months of squabbling the
Country party and the Q.P.P. have at
last arrived at an amicable agreement on
Federal-election policy.
Where is Ainslie Kingsford?
His full name is Ainslie Auburn Kings-
ford, aged 54 at the time of his disap-
pearance, an A.I.F. officer of 1914-18
who’d suffered “severe head wounds,”
sft, lOin. high, medium build, sallow
complexion, thick curly grey hair. He
was employed in the security depart-
ment, head office, of the Bank of N.S.W.
His last recorded appearance was on the
evening of January 28, 1948, when he was
seen leaving a ferry at Manly. The friend
who saw him, knowing he lived at
Mosman, expressed curiosity, and Kings-
ford replied that he “sometimes did the
round trip.”
On January 23 Kingsford, as a witness,
produced documents concerning a safe-
deposit box to the court in the prelimi-
nary hearing of the New Guinea timber-
lease case.
The box belonged to Mr. E. J. Ward,
Federal Minister for Transport and Ex-
ternal Territories, an important witness at
the trial, and now, at his own request, re-
lieved of his Ministerial duties pending
the findings of a Royal Commission in-
quiring into the matter. On Jan, 27, 1948,
after references in the court to a sum of
£5OOO, Mr. Shand, K.C. (for the Crown),
suggested that Mr. Ward, with Garden’s
solicitor, Mr. Isaacs, should get the box
and bring it to the court. Mr. Isaacs
said “You don’t imagine there would be
anything there now, do you?”
Next day Det.-Inspector Wilks (Com-
monwealth Investigation Branch), with
Constable King and Mr. Ward, went to
the head office of the Bank of N.S.W.,
removed the box and took it to the court.
It contained papers, an insuance policy
and receipts. That night Kingsford
vanished.
“Sydney Morning Herald” reports on
the disappearance, summarised:
Feb. 4: Police informed by relatives
Kingsford missing since Jan. 28.
Feb. 27: Search in all States failed to
locate him.
Feb. 28: Commonwealth Security officers
join in search. Mr. Chifley tells House he
will see if Commonwealth Investigation
officers would aid in search.
March 1: Commonwealth detectives con-
tinuing search.
March 11: Mr. Chifley tells Mr. Rankin
(C.P., Vic.) that it is not proposed to use
C. 1.8. men in search.
March 24: Detectives find no trace of
Kingsford,
There, apparently, the matter ended.
But the time and circumstances of
Kingsford’s disappearance, the fact
that his body (if he is dead) has
never been discovered, and the subse-
quent silence about him are concerning
many minds. The best way to ease the
public concern is for the Federal authori-
ties to issue a statement as to what
further steps have been taken to trace the
man. If the silence continues it justifies
an Opposition question when Federal
Parliament resumes.
Centrolised Power.
The burden of the S.A. Premier’s remarks
at the Summer School of the Institute
of Political Science at Albury last week
was that the States are up against it
financially, are likely to be worse off,
and have a “completely obscure” finan-
cial, if not political, future. Their only
hope, as Mr. Playford sees it, is to re-
store balance to the Federal system.
He came to the School as head of a
State which, on the one hand, has made
tremendous industrial expansion since the
war, partly because of the stability of its
Government, and, on the other hand, has
suffered seriously from an inability to
finance its needs under the uniform-
taxation scheme. He spoke of uniform
taxation’s effect on the nature of govern-
ment in Australia:
State Parliaments have been relieved of
the obligations of collecting taxation. They
have also been relieved, however, of the
requirement of accounting to the taxpayer
for the money which they have received.
The responsibility of government has been
impaired.
In times such as these, of buoyant
revenue, high prices for agricultural
products and general prosperity, there has
been a tendency for Government costs to
expand enormously. All the pressure
today in State government is for increased
expenditure to be followed by in-
creased demands upon the Commonwealth
Treasury.
The net effect is gradually altering the
nature of our Constitution from one of
Federation to one of Unification. The
general effect is to greatly impair the in-
fluence of the elector so far as control of
expenditure of Government money is con-
cerned.
A further effect is to place enormous
power in the hands of the Federal
Treasurer. Under such a system he can
dominate the economy of every Govern-
ment in Australia.
“Dominating the economy” of Australia
means practically absolute power in the
hands of a centralised Government. At
present that power is in the hands of a
Socialist gang determined to centralise
government to the last subsection of a
regulation. As for the gang’s attitude
to the Australian right to change the
Government and its policy at the ballot-
box, Mr. Calwell, one of its senior
Cabinet Ministers, told the A.L.P. con-
ference in Victoria, in effect, that if the
Privy Council held that his Government
could socialise the banks, and it did so,
the electors wouldn’t be able to alter it
because “Labor” would have control of
the Senate. In other words, the Govern-
ment believes it has seen to it that the
electors will have no say in the matter.
Mr. Playford wants an agreement be-
tween States and Commonwealth giving
the States “sufficient revenue to carry
out their Constitutional functions,” but
into that agreement he wants written a
provision for a return to the States of
“their proper obligations to account to
the taxpayer for the money he is com-
pelled to provide.” The best way to do
o Continued at foot of next page.)


6661 E-R.
CRAVEN A
Their quality and smoothness
is unmistakable
mod®, speeiaUtf
CARRERAS LIMITED OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
it, in his view, is to allot to the States
some “definite fields of taxation.”
But whether that would stop the steady
concentration of power in Canberra is
another thing. The biggest contributing
factor to Canberra’s increase of power is
the obvious destruction, through
“Labor’s” machinations, of the Senate as
a House of Review elected by the States
to protect State interests. Reform of the
Senate is clearly as necessary as financial
reform, and it is a matter which the
Opposition parties must consider in their
election programme.
POLITICAL POINTS
After “full consultation with the Com-
monwealth Bank” the Prime Minister
appealed to all Australians to “go care-
fully in spending” and to “save all they
possibly can.” The ink was hardly dry
on the large Government advertisements
publicising his appeal when Holt,
M.H.R., pointed out that the Common-
wealth Bank was canvassing by advertise-
ment for hire-purchase business, offering
the people whom Chifley was exhorting to
save “credit terms more favorable than
those available from established hire-
purchase institutions.” It’s all delightfully
simple. The spenders are helping to push
prices up, so the non-spenders are to put
their money into Chifley’s Savings Bank
to help keep prices down so that Chifley’s
Big Bank can lend it to the spenders to
help push prices up so that Chifley can
exhort the non-spenders to put their
money into Chifley’s Savings Bank so
that . . . or something like that,
“To eliminate any doubt as to the
Soviet Union’s good-neighborly intentions
towards Norway” Russia has offered the
Norsemen a non-aggression pact. The
offer should certainly eliminate all doubts.
It was revealed in the House of Com-
mons that the Ford Motor Company was
excluded from the 107 concerns “engaged
in the production of iron ore, or of
pig-iron or steel, or in the shaping of
steel by a rolling process” which Britain’s
Socialists propose to nationalise. Con-
servative members suggested that this
course was taken through fear of reper-
cussions on US. aid if the Ford steel-
works were grabbed by the Government
along with the rest. Oliver Lyttelton
could find in the measure “no rhyme or
reason except funk.” Supply Minister
Strauss replied: “I accept straightway
the argument that our action is illogical,
bjut I say at the same time it is wise.”
Socialists are like that; what they can’t
defend by reason they justify by instinct.
Twelve months ago those who claimed
to be in the know gave it out that Chifley
was “grooming” Senator McKenna as his
successor. The story isn’t repeated nowa-
days, so it must be assumed that some-
thing went wrong with the grooming—
possibly too much soap and not enough
curry-comb.
Memories of Coogee and Kogarah will
crowd in upon the McGirrs as they face
the Concord by-election made necessary
by the death of W. J. Carlton. At the
1947 elections “Labor” majorities in the
three electorates were Coogee, 743;
Kogarah, 3732; Concord, 1664. Last
May in Coogee the Liberal Ellis was first
home in a field of four, with a lead of
1152 over the “Labor” candidate and an
absolute majority of 283. In July, fol-
lowing the death of Currey, V.C., another
Liberal, Cross, captured Kogarah with
822 votes to spare. In an attempt to
snatch cold comfort from the “Labor”
defeat McGirr blithered that, compared
with the Prices Referendum, the by-
election figures showed an improvement
in “Labor’s” favor. To retain Concord
for th’ pairty he will need a very big
improvement.
At three o’clock one afternoon last 1
week Mr. Calwell was booked to address
the annual convention of the A.W.U.
After waiting nearly an hour for the
promised treat delegates discovered that
the Minister for Misinformation had
“completely overlooked” the appointment.
By telephone, he told their president that
if it suited the convention he was pre-
pared to earbash the gathering “at 5 p.m.
or later.” It didn’t suit.
While Calwell is busy turfing-out every
Asiatic he can lay departmental hands on,
the Government, as a member of which
he presumably shares responsibility for
Cabinet decisions, is inviting a score of
Asiatic students to attend Australian
universities. To complete the anomaly
the first student to arrive was a Siamese ;
she arrived almost the same day that two
other Siamese students departed under
deportation orders. The idea behind the
admission of Asiatic students is that it
may “help bring about greater under-
standing between nations.” Perhaps so,
but most of the leaders of the nationalist
movement in India were educated in
Britain.
The Northern N. S. Wales Movement’s
conference at Armidale on February 9,
10, 11, will be one of th 6 biggest new-
State meetings yet held. Over 200 dele-
gates will attend, and observers from
Riverina, the south-east of N.S.W. and
other parts will be there. Dr. Evatt
should send an ambassador. The gather-
ing might turn out to be more important
to him politically than the recent much-
advertised one at Delhi.
Another tip has come out of Queens-
land on the Commonwealth election
date. The previous one was by Ader-
mann (C.P., Maranoa) that it would be in
December because sitting members
wouldn’t qualify for their £B-a-week pen-
sions until November 30. The new one
is from “inner Labor circles” in Bris-
bane, and it sets the date at December
3 or *O. The “circles” expect the Labor
campaign to begin after Easter. They’re
wrong; it began when the P.M. an-
nounced “big tax reductions,” to begin in
July.
Reported that the C.S.I.R, is hunting
for a method of giving concrete floors
“cushioned comfort.” Mr. Dedman will
doubtless be interested in the outcome of
their investigations, especially if they can
find a means of cushioning the thud
that threatens to be coming to him in
Corio at the end of the year.
While Australia was considering the
news of falling stocks on the New York
Slock Exchange at the week-end, said to
be caused by “weaknesses” in graips and
cottons, falling commodity prices and
less employment, the Prime Minister went
to the microphone and assured everybody
that they could trust his Government to
fepd off the depression, if any, because
his Government had cash reserves and
plans with which to do things. On Mon-
day A.B.C. announced that Professor
Copland had suggested a sort of extension
of the wheat-“stabilisation” plan by
drawing off proportion of our export
wealth and holding it for distribution in a
bad time. All of which seems to mean
that the “Golden Age” is suffering a
partial eclipse.
The Communist party has announced
its intention of running 76 candidates for
the next Federal elections, including full
Senate teams of seven in N, S. Wales,
Victoria and Queensland. On past per-
formances that means 76 deposits for-
feited, but the Men of Moscow—they
include a few females —won’t worry their
heads about that. Funds are plentiful,
and the election campaign will give them
the chance to talk their heads off, while
the numerical strength of their nomina-
tions will, if the A.B.C. follows its usual
practice, ensure them of a generous slab
of broadcasting-time in which to preach
love of Stalin and hatred of democracy.
When Opposition members are asking
the Treasurer why he stopped the issue
of Savings Certificates someone should
inquire (1) how many certificates are held
in America, and (2) whether he has any
evidence of trafficking in them by dollar-
hungry round-the-world tourists.
Calwell’s patent shilly-shallying over
the O’Keefe case was revealed when he
derided Mrs.. O’Keefe’s “claim that
by virtue of her marriage to an Aus-
tralian she was a British subject,” This
is sheer distortion: Mrs, O’Keefe’s claim
under Calwell’s own new Citizenship Act
is that marriage to an Australian makes
her an Australian citizen. So it does.
It is as an Australian citizen that Cal-
well’s Act makes her a British subject.
Nowhere in Australia has the medical
profession given much support to Can-
berra’s free-pills-and-potions scheme, but
a Broken Hill correspondent reports that
in his city the doctors favoring it can be
counted on one Finger.
The A.W.U. convention in Melbourne
decided to ask State Lands Ministers to
“enforce destruction of burrs and weeds
which lower the value of wool and en-
danger shearers.” The thing has its
points, since destruction of burrs ought
to be enforced ; but what will the A.W.U.
say the next time some station-owner in-
vites the shearers and shedhands to cut
burrs when sheep are too wet to shear?
Anybody who thinks Dr. Evatt’s
Foreign Policy is peculiar ought to ex-
amine the Israeli one, announced by
Prime Minister Ben-Gurion as:
Friendship and co-operation with U.S.A.
and U.S.S.R.
A Jewish-Arab alliance.
Loyal support for U.N.O,
If Israeli can work that out the problem
of mixing oil and water is solved.
The Prime Minister’s appeal to “Save
for Security” is one at which not even
the most conservative-minded can cavil.
But plenty of his own supporters don’t
believe in the slogan. It is not so long
since “Labor” was preaching that to save
was a sin against society, and the saver
a miser; if he saved enough and became
a bondholder he was a bloodsucker.
And the same party, including its leader,
still preaches that security, social brand,
is a right to which all men, savers and
spendthrifts alike, are entitled, the only
difference being that the spendthrift gets
it at no cost to himself, while the saver
pays for his own security and the spend-
thrift’s too.
At a School of Political Science at
Albury last week Professor Geoffrey
Sawer, Associate Professor of Law at
Melbourne Uni., said that “the extreme
ambiguity of the section had resulted in
highly individual views and sharply con-
flicting decisions.” It was Section 92
of the Commonwealth Constitution, which
reads: —
On the imposition of uniform duties of
customs, trade, commerce and intercourse
among the States, whether by means of
internal carriage or ocean navigation, shall
be absolutely free.
To those who’ve tried to get round it,
both Governments and private persons,
it might seem “ambiguous,” but to ordi-
nary people who read no more into words
than what they mean, and who believe
the word “free” to have a simple and
straightforward meaning, the thing is
plain enough.
It isn’t so long since Melbourne
wharfies struck because they couldn’t get
beer in the lunch-hour at a waterside pub.
The other day, Englart, Communist secre-
tary of the Brisbane wharfies, said his
crowd would strike unless they were
provided with iced water. It only needs
the Darwin or Fremantle wharfies to
strike for more tea and the cycle will
be complete—until they think of some-
thing else.
After many failures it seems that anti-
“ Labor” forces in Queensland, have
worked out a satisfactory plan of cam-
paign for the Federal elections. In a
joint statement the two parties announced
that the Country party would contest
eight seats Leichhardt, Herbert,
Kennedy, Dawson, Wide Bay, Fisher,
Maranoa and Macpherson—and the
Q.P.P. nine Capricornia, Darling
Downs, Lilley, Ryan, Petrie, Moreton,
Bowman, Griffith and Brisbane. In the
remaining seat, Oxley, considered an im-
possibility for “Labor,” both parties will
put up a candidate with exchange of
preferences.
Meatworkers at Brisbane abattoirs,
after being earbashed by Communist
speakers, were asked to attend a Red rally
at the City Hall. They asked for and got
a division. The chairman, a Comrade,
looked at the two groups, mumbled that
it looked a close go and announced that
the Ayes had it. Apparently the Noes
had had him. In an angry demonstration
they insisted on a proper count; it
resulted in the motion being defeated by
370 votes to 270,
G. Ward Price, of London “Sunday
dispatch,” who looked us over recently,
tdld his readers that we’ve wakened to
the menace of Asia:
Dock-laborers were especially exacting.
They would knock off if smoke from a
ship’s funnel drifted over them or if there
•were a risk of getting their clothes splashed
with paint. They still indulge their
political prejudices, but these tendencies
are abating and Communist agitators are
said to be losing their influence.
Even organised labor begins to realise
that 7,500,000 Australians are not enough to
hold this vast, rich, almost-empty Tom
Tiddler’s ground, this island in an ocean
of colored races.
Of course, once the wharfies assumed
control of the nation’s foreign policy they
could scarcely be bothered by such
mundane things as splashes of paint. It’s
different with splashes of beer.
Yet another British Labor man has
apparently discovered that Socialism in
practice is a far different thing from
Socialism in theory. Earl Baldwin,
Governor of the Leeward Islands, recalled
to London to explain his criticism of the
Attlee Government at the opening of his
colony’s Parliament, is the son of the
former Conservative Prime Minister, but
his own politics have been Labor for a
long time. As Oliver Baldwin he was
the defeated Labor candidate for Dudley
in 1924 ; for Chatham, 1931, and Paisley'
1935, He won Dudley in 1929, and as
Viscount Corvedale was returned for
Paisley in 1945. After his father’s death
he succeeded to the title and was
appointed Governor of the Leeward
Islands 12 months ago. He told his
Parliament that there came from White-
hall “hundreds and hundreds of pages of
suggestions, but no money,” and said that
“if the islands had a quarter of the money
spent on conferences they could
build their own hospitals and start their
own unemployment fund.” Whitehall
recalled him with a “please explain.” His
explanation is foreshadowed by his con-
tribution to Who’s Who —“Educ.: in
football at Eton ; in other things, be-
ginning to learn,”
A German woman has a suggestion to
meet the problem of Germany’s surplus
women. Her plan is to allow women to
marry “for a limited time and be able
to leave their husbands if the experi-
ment fails.” But once the fraulein has
collected a husband what means are to
be used to force her to give him up?
Mr. Graham, the McGirr Minister for
Agriculture, resents people saying that
some landholders are apathetic about
rabbits; —•
I refuse to believe that the majority of
our primary producers, many of whom have
displayed considerable resourcefulness in
overcoming almost insurmountable obstacles
before successfully establishing themselves
on their properties and who will periodi-
cally suffer many seasonal adversities, such
as drought, bushfire or flood, would allow
themselves to be beaten by a rabbit.
Now, if only Mr. Graham would talk
to the rabbits like that!


MOSCOW BARGAINER.
“What’ll you give me, Sam, if I let you chuck that thing away?”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Chipper”: If the elderly bootmaker
who found a watch - engraved “John
Forrest” really caused a stir in W.A.
historical circles (B. 19/1/’49) it’s time
the circles stopped running around. The
firm of John Forrest, London, has been
making pocket-watches since longer than
my dad can remember, and he is 84.1 and
my four ■ brothers each received a silver
watch and chain on our 16th birthday,
and the old man was never one to stint
money when it came to buying the best.
Yes, we all have John Forrest watches.
* * * *
“Curtain Raiser”: The general con-
sensus of opinion, both of the public and
the judges, appears to be that the quality
of the pictures submitted for the Archi-
bald Prize is getting worse instead of
better. No wonder. If modem painters
played the piano or the violin as badly
as they paint their pictures they wouldn’t
even get into the class of the first-year
conservatorium student. Before' they
could get into the class of the virtuoso
they would have to indulge in an enor-
mous amount of practice. The amount
of practice that a Heifetz or a Backhaus
has had is colossal, and one distinguished
pianist of 30 years’ standing told me
that he still starts the day by playing
scales for two hours. But the average
modem artist thinks he has done well
if he paints one or two pictures in a
year, and he calls this waiting for his in-
spiration!
♦♦ l ♦ •
“Mullum”: Several years ago there
was a par. in The Bulletin from a bloke
who had a tram-ticket with the number
55555. He wanted to know what it would
be worth as a crib hand. About the
same time I was given a similar ticket
myself and put it aside as a curiosity.
A few weeks ago my radio announced a
competition for the tram-ticket with the
best crib-hand, and after much searching
I found the old five fives and sent it
along. I got the prize, and if the bloke
who wrote the original par. still re-
members it I owe him a couple of beers.
One thing worries me, though. Will Mr.
Chifley consider the competition a game
of skill and tax me on the prize, or would
it be a game of chance, winnings tax-
free?
* * * »
“Uco”: I won’t dispute “Chevroford’s”
statement that all the women engaged
in the current “Tests” between England
and Australia can play cricket better than
most men; I’m certain they can all play
it better than I can, though so can most
men. But the standard of the reporting
of their matches leaves a lot to be de-
sired. My daily paper told me one day
last week: “A dogged stand by tail-enders
Megan Lowe and Mary Johnson gave
England a draw with Australia.” I
glanced down at the scores to see whether
Megan and Mary had come anywhere
near the Kippax-Hooker last-wicket
record. There it was: “M. Lowe, not
out 4; M. Johnson, not out 1.” Still,
I don’t know how long they took to make
their runs, so perhaps dogged is right
after all.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: I wonder if there is any
family in Australia which claims the right
of spelling its surname without a capital
letter. The reflection occurred to me on
noticing that the newly-appointed head-
master of one of England’s best-known
public schools wears the quaint-looking
cognomen of fforde. Of course there 4 are
others in the same boat, so to speak—
ffrenches, to cite only one example. The
usage, I have read somewhere, dates from
the time when the “F” in certain old
family documents, pedigrees among them,
was mistaken for “ff,” so what was
originally just a printer’s error—or would
have been classed as one if printing had
been invented —presently came to be
valued as a distinction and clung to as a
sort of heirloom. But I can’t recall en-
countering any “ffs,” even in directories,
outside the U.K!.
* * * *
“T.McN.”: The organiser of a charity
carnival at Manly (N.S.W.) proposed to
have a pretty girl bathed in a tub of milk
as one attraction ; as another, the chasing
of 50 ducks in , the local swimming-pool.
The R.S.P.C.A. promptly denounced the
second act as cruelty to the ducks, though
it doesn’t seem to worry about what goes
on at poultry slaughtering-sheds or what
happens to poultry consigned alive in
crates on the railways. Exit the duck-
chase. Next, a Bumble arose and boomed
that no girl would be allowed take a
public bath in, milk and thus fill the
gaping populace with sinful thoughts.
The secretary of the milkos’ union, ordi-
narily a sensible sort of chap, was
badgered into condemning the act on the
ground’that it would be a waste of milk.
Beaten on the ducks, the organiser put
on the milk act —a seven-year-old child
up to her chubby waist in powdered-milk
and water. Thus are imagination and
enterprise in showmanship received in a
city which packs stoush-houses twice a
week to watch young men punch each
other stupid, allows livestock to suffer
untold misery in being brought alive to
its abattoirs, and thinks nothing of look-
ing upon young women practically naked
on its beaches.
“H.W.M.”: “Bonnie Prince Charlie” is
now assured of immortality—a St. Kilda
(Vic.) pubkeeper has renamed his joint
after the infant prince. When Edward
VIII gave up his kingship a hostelry in
Prahran, an adjoining suburb, re-
christened itself the Hotel Windsor. In
fact, the two suburbs seem to favor
royal names for their beer-shops; they
also boast two Prince of Wales pubs. Her
Majesty’s, the Imperial, the Duke of
York, Duke of Edinburgh and several
with the prefix Royal.
♦ * * *
“Pawang”; One can’t help wondering
why the gipsies are such successful
Artful Dodgers. Their methods have
been widely publicised, and anybody who
can read a newspaper should know all
about them. Yet a few weeks ago a
case occurred in Melbourne of a gipsy
woman who, in blessing the takings of
a suburban shopkeeper, got away with
£4O in notes, A few weeks later a trust-
ing woman handed a male gipsy no less
than £240 for his benediction ; when she
got the roll back £6O was missing. In
the first case the shopman reported that
when the woman touched his hand an
electric thrill ran through him and he
suffered a momentary blackout. There
seems to be something sexual in these
manifestations. An ancient tradition
surrounds the mysterious race with a
strange atmosphere, which is exempli-
fied in the ditty: “My mother said, I
never should, play with the gipsies in
the wood.” One of D. H. Lawrence’s
most vivid stories concerns the havoc a,
gipsy wrought in the emotions of a re-
spectably brought-up daughter of a vicar
and what happened when a sudden
freshet in the near-by river swept them
both into a half-submerged house. In all
these reports of gipsy-thieving fhe victims
confess to the power the dark, handsome
man or woman with the earrings has of
producing in them a chaos of emotions
in the course of which they cease to
reason.
* * * *
“Dalziel”: I know one man who will
not agree with Unk White’s jokes on the
harassed bloke whose wife had walked
out. After two years of suggesting it,
he persuaded his wife to visit her married
daughter for a couple of weeks. He had
been “batching” for just over a week
when he told me: “The wife can stay
away for six months if she wants to. I’m
doing all right. I had three fried eggs,
a plate of oysters and a bottle of beer
for lunch today. If she’d been home it
would have been a grilled chop and a
cup of tea.”
sp * » *
“Cappo”: For the title of world
champion cigarette-card collector I’ll
nominate J, R. Murtagh, of Hastings
(N.Z.). As a result of a quarter of a
century’s devotion to his hobby he claims
a collection of close on a million and a
half cards. This total, of course, includes
duplicates which he uses for exchanging
with 1 collectors throughout the world.
Every conceivable subject is covered by
the cards, whiqh come from almost every
country where gaspers are made. The
largest single series is of Austrian origin
and comprises 1100 colored pastel views
of Europe. According to the champ.,
cigarette-cards were first issued in
America in the ’9o’s, but since 1910 the
Yanks have put out only isolated sets.
He has an Italian series giving hints on
precautions to be observed against gas-
attacks, a British series on A.R.P. and a
fine German collection of photos of the
1936 Olympic Games. Oddities include
stereoscopic cards, transfers, luminous
cards and map sections.
* * * *
“Den”: Not only were the ancient
Britons sufficiently civilised to be able
to mint their own coins (B. 19/1/’49),
but they had a standard of craftsman-
ship high enough for clever counter-
feiting. Pre-Roman British coins can be
seen today that are made of copper with
a gold skin. They are most convincing
imitations of genuine issues.
* * * *
“Colonial Cove”; That antique piano
of the Hentys’ may have landed originally
at the Swan River. A piano is mentioned
in the six foolscap pages of inventory
entered by Mr. George Dunnage, at the
W.A. Colonial Secretary’s Office, in 1830.
By 1832 Mr. Dunnage had sold most of
his possessions, including the piano, and
departed homewards. At that time and
until 1838 the Hentys were established
on the Swan. Early in 1838 Sam, one
of the younger Hentys, married Miss
Elizabeth Pace, daughter of Captain
Pace, a Fremantle innkeeper and master
mariner, retired from the East India
Company service, Sam did his wedding
well, feasting the entire township, not
even excluding the dozen prisoners in the
jail on Arthur’s Head. Also such of the
original inhabitants of the country as
happened to be in Fremantle that day. It
is mentioned in some private correspon-
dence that Mr. Henty, who may have
been Sam, elder brother James, or even
the father of the clan, presented the bride
with a piano. Shortly afterwards Samuel
packed his charming Elizabeth, together
with his goods and chattels, on board the
family yacht and sailed for Portland
(Vic.).
* * * *
“Spa4ebo”: An elderly Russian hedge-
cutter, who was picked up with a broken
leg and taken to St, Vincent’s, Mel-
bourne, at the height of a heatwave,
was found to be wearing two coats, a
jumper, two waistcoats, three shirts, three
pairs of trousers and two pairs of socks.
It was just a relic of his old tradition.
The Slav makes very little difference be-
tween summer and winter clothing. I
once crossed Siberia in summer, when
the flies and the heat and the mosquitoes
made me fairly homesick, but nothing
would induce my fellow-passengers to
take an interest in the Black Hole fug in
our compartment, and when I suggested
opening a window they pointed to the
fact that the double sashes which are
attached in winter had been there prob-
ably since the maiden voyage of the
carriage. Anyhow, until a few years ago
Melbourne citizens weren’t much differ-
ent. The first girl ever to appear in the
Melbourne streets in a play-suit was
arrested by a horrified policeman. Now
it is not uncommon to see a middle-aged
businessman striding to his office in shorts
and an open-necked shirt.
♦ * ♦ *
“Lyle”: Those five shopkeepers in
“Harold Hardupp’s” suburb who closed
up for a fortnight at Christmas were
moderate compared to several in the two
local centres near my home (B. 19 /1/’49).
One cake-shop, a boot-repairer and a
bicycle-and-sports store were shut for
month. Some others took three weeks’
off. Small business-folk in many
fields find it an advantage to take a
good holiday once a year, under the con-
ditions of today. They can get only a
certain amount of stock and can dispose
of all they have. By keeping open all
the year they wouldn’t do any better.
♦ * * *
“Numismatico”: “Matelot” (B.
22/12/’4B) was right. The Transport
Medal was instituted by King Edward
VII in recognition of the magnificent
work done and the nautical skill and
efficiency shown by those who were en-
gaged in the Transport Service during
the China and South Africa campaigns.
The official announcement stated
that the “Transport Medal shall
be granted in future wars to the
officers of the Mercantile
Marine serving in the Trans-
ports.” Description of the
medal: Obverse. Bust of King
• Edward VII, facing left, in the
uniform of an Admiral of
the Fleet, wearing his orders and
decorations, and the legend Edwardus VII
Rex Imperator. On the reverse,
a liner (Ophir) ploughing through
the sea; above is a map of the
world which embraces the British
Empire from the West Indies to New
Zealand, but, owing to the circular form
of the medal, omits the North American
continent; below is the legend Ob Pat-
riam Militibus per Mare Transvectis
Adjutant. The ribbon is red with two
blue stripes. Bars inscribe*!, “China
1900” or “S. Africa 1899-1902” were
issued. No bars have been issued since,
and in World War One the medal was
more or less superseded by the Mercan-
tile Marine War Medal, awarded to all
officers and men of the Merchant Navy.
* * * *
“Whang”; Union drinkers in Port
Augusta (S.A.) are having a dry time,
with beer-drinking in hotels banned be-
cause of price-increases. Hotelkeepers
don’t worry ; the beer goes just the same.
Travellers are the gainers; for once there s
enough to go round.
* * * *
“Melbn”: Dr. A. I. Sinclair, psy-
chiatrist to the Royal Melbourne, told
Geelong businessmen that after 40
they would start to decline in mental
ability, though he was kind enough to
say that they would do it very slowly.
Bunkum! Titian painted some of his
greatest masterpieces after he was 90,
Goethe wrote the first part of Faust
at 57 and the last part at 83. Wagner s
mental decline was so rapid that all he
was able to achieve in his 70th year was
that insignificant trifle “Parsifal. ’ Gau-
guin didn’t start to paint until he was
past 40, and in four years he painted
more pictures than most artists do m a
lifetime. And the nonagenarian G.B.b.
is still writing. If the psychiatrist only
meant businessmen, even there he can
be confuted. Macßobertson, the choco-
late king, showed no decline m mental
agility at 60, and William Anghss, the
meat ditto, was alert enough at the
recent celebration of his 85th buthday,
THE SPORTS WHO LOST THEIR TIN.
Hark! Do you hear that storm of angry
bellows,
That tempest of exasperated roars?
Is it some riot that these Commo fellows
Have planned and started on our peaceful
shores?
No, brother, there’s an easier explanation;
This noisy outburst of discordant din
It’s nothing but a racecourse demonstration
By sports who’ve lost their tin.
Seeking to rob a lady of her lover
Is an offence ’gainst which you’d well be
warned,
Nor did it take a poet to discover
“Hell has no fury like a woman scorned.”
Doubtless a quite legitimate impression,
But how about a punter’s fury, though.
Who, when he deems it safe in his possession,
Gets parted from his dough?
Sometimes a prad, whose proven aptitude is
Attested by a string of triumphs past,
Belies his record and cbnfounds the shrewdies
By finishing incontinently last.
Sometimes a roughie, hardly even quoted,
Shoots out victoriously from the van
Whom tipsters have unanimously voted
Merely an “also ran.”
’Tis then you hear the tumult and the shouting,
The hissed invective and the blatant yell,
The raucous comment on the need for outing
Whoeyer may be held responsible.
Owner or jock or trainer, all who’re rated
As having helped to bring such things to pass,
Are contumeliously objurgated
By blokes who’ve blewed'their brass.
I
Well, even though you reckon something crook
is
Involved when knocks like these you punters
strike
Why don’t you take a lesson from the bookies,
Who treat their losses and their gains alike?
Serene and unperturbed you find them waiting
The sign for paying out or raking in.
No setbacks ever start them demonstrating
Like sports who’ye lost their tin.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“F.S.”: After a 60-year fight for
recognition the Baconians are at it again
in England, and have started a campaign
to bore the entire world with their theory
that Francis Bacon wrote Shakspeare,
taking the Bard’s name as a pseudonym
because he (Bacon) was the illegitimate
offspring of Queen Elizabeth and the
Earl of Leicester. The dreary con-
troversy, which can be settled in half-
an-hour simply by reading the works of
the two writers, has had its adherents all
over the Empire as well as in the U.S.A.
An Australian exponent was the late
Barney Hall, one-time director of the
National Gallery in Melbourne, The
Baconians themselves seem likely to
become the subject of controversy a
couple of hundred years hence. So many
people have confused their Bacon society
with the Bacon Marketing Board that
they have had to put “Francis” in front
of it.
* * * #
“Ceg”; Recipe for relaxation, 1949
style. Take a beautiful park of about
eighty acres and amidst the old trees
construct, at great cost, one of the best
Olympic swimming-pools in Australia.
Plant the surroundings with lawns and
climbing roses and scatter ornamental
shrubs here and there. Instal flood-
lighting for night-bathing and equip a
secondary pool for the toddlers. Instal
a powerful wireless-set with amplifiers.
The patrons of the pool can thoroughly
enjoy their dip whilst listening to some
maniac race-broadcaster shrieking his
piece. In the short intervals between
races, swing and other so-called musical
noises can be blared forth with the
maximum of distortion. It is a terrible
thing to be old-fashioned and to like
peaceful surroundings. For myself, I
have returned to the old mining-dam
out in the bush where, at the risk of
being nipped by yabbies, a swim in peace
can be enjoyed,
* ♦ * ♦
“Beau Forte”: “Pongo’s” beer-bottle,
branded 1926 and still working (B.
5/1/’49), has given long and valuable
service, but I doubt if, in his hands, it
will equal the record of one old beerskin
(fully charged) which often claims my
thoughts. On Armistice Night, 1918, an
old friend of mine, a blue-ribboner,
joined the merry throng at the little
“ Howdy , folks! I’ve brought a bottle of home-brew!”
town’s only pub and participated in
Bung’s hand-out of a bottle of beer all
round. Into his cupboard went that
bottle, and there it has stayed—through
drought, another war, another armistice
and a beer famine—for more than 30
years. A good record, perhaps, but see-
ing that beer-bottles are scarce nowadays.
I often think of one that should be
liberated.
* * * *
“Uramao”: What a gap would have
been left in the history of Maoriland had
the author of Old New Zealand not been
frustrated in his puritanical desire to
destroy his fascinating volume! After the
greater part of his life spent among
Maoris, so that he became known as the
“Pakeha Maori,” Maning wrote a book
recording native customs, history, legends,
beliefs and song. Later he decided that
some of his accounts of Maori customs
might repel mid-Victorians and be harm-
ful to children, so he decided the whole
history should be destroyed. Unknown
to Maning, Julius Vogel, editor of the
Auckland “Southern Cross,” had, in
1864, printed a thousand copies of the
work, Maning collected all he could of
these and burnt them, but fortunately
some escaped—to the great joy of all
students of Maori lore.
* * * *
“Bo”: Modern times, which afford the
spectacle of a victorious country conduct-
ing a “peace offensive” against its allies
who did most of the work, and even
before the peace treaty with the enemy
has been signed, have robbed that func-
tion, if and when it does occur, of all
significance—human nature just won’t
stand getting wildly enthusiastic over
something it has been regarding cyni-
cally fop years. Probably the greatest
fiasco associated with peace treaties oc-
curred in connection with the London
celebrations of the Treaty of Aix-la-
Chapelle, which, in 1748, ended Anglo-
French hostilities. George II had com-
missioned Handel to write music for it,
and this was to be preceded by 101 brass
cannon thundering the Royal salute that
was to announce the beginning of the
fireworks. Handel’s contribution —the
celebrated Royal Fireworks Music —was
given, with 18 smaller cannon firing
single shots during its performance. But
the fireworks accidentally set ablaze the
great building in Green Park where the
celebrations were held. The huge con-
course panicked in one of London’s
worst stampedes. The celebrations ended
miserably. But one slight bit of good
did come out of it: George, realising
that Handel’s music was the redeeming
feature of the whole affair, affably
coughed up £2OOO when shortly after-
wards the composer performed the work
for the benefit of the Foundling Hospital,
sf * # #
“Becks”: When London “Times” an-
nounced that “Baedeker’s Guide” was to
resume publication (B. 2/2/’49), Otto
Baedeker wrote to the editor pointing
out that the ‘first post-war volume had
already been published last year. Owing
to difficulties of re-establishing the firm
“it was only a small guide of Leipzig,
the town where two members of the elder
generation, my father and my uncle, are
still working.” The firm has since gained
a licence from the British authorities in
Hamburg. Otto, who lives in Kent, de-
plored the use of the term “Baedeker
raid” during the war, feeling that to some
it might imply fraternisation with the
Nazis. “Goring brought into being this
expression, saying that the Luftwaffe
would destroy, if necessary, every build-
ing and monument marked with a star
in Baedeker.”
♦ * * *
“K.H.H.”: Prefabricated houses?
Prisoners at Stalag 383, Germany, had
a prefabricated church. It was a gift
from Sweden. Some months before it
arrived we received a magnificent bronze
bell, the gift of two citizens of Stock-
holm, Edit and Ernst Just. On one side
it bore the names of the donors and the
words: “Presented through the War
Prisoners’ Aid of the Y.M.C.A., May,
1.944.” The other side was inscribed:
“Glory to God in the Highest and on
Earth Peace to Men of Goodwill.”
Both bell and church were the result of
a conversation between the Swedish
Y.M.C.A. Commissioner, Mr. Erik Berg,
and our R.C. padre, now a Scottish
bishop. Padre Grant had told Mr. Berg
that he was erecting a log-hut to ease
church accommodation difficulties ; Mr.
Berg weighed in with the offer of a real
“What marvellous hospitality, Mrs. Whittlestick !”
church. Conferences were held between
the three padres in the camp —the others
were Padre Foote, V.C., of Canada,
and Padre Oakley, of Westralia —
and it was agreed all denominations
would use the church. It was
never erected; the sections didn’t
arrive until well into the next European
winter, when the war was nearing' its end.
They lay in a van at the near-by
railway station most of the winter and
were still there when I left the neighbor-
hood in April, 1945. The church might
have been erected had we had the energy
to put it together; but food was terribly
scarce and so was fuel. I think the main
reason the sections never reached the
camp was the fear of the padres that
the wood might be used for the more
immediate task of warming our bodies
rather than our souls.
**■ * *
“Percy Pawnticket”: A ride in a
hansom-cab is still available in Sydney,
also (B. 19/1/ ’49); two cabs survive, with
a regular routine of customers who cling
to the horse-drawn vehicle; and an old
“growler” cab plied outside a suburban
station until a couple of years ago. Owing
largely to the affection of oldsters with
remembrances of joy-rides in the intimacy
of the definitely two-seat privacy with the
“clickclocking” of the horse’s hooves
beating time to the heart’s elation, the
hansom is dying hard ; this writer is one
who believes that the young bloods of
today have nothing to equal the old cab-
happiness. But the cabbies themselves
must share the affection for their old
vehicles, for they have obstinately re-
sisted extravagant offers for their number-
plates,
* * * *
“Zake”: The dowager driving the big
limousine was smiling as she chatted to
the woman beside her. Then she pressed
the horn on the wheel as they approached
an intersection, and it stopped down.
As the deafening roar continued she
pulled up and got out with her com-
panion. A woman was walking by on
the footpath with a little boy, who, scared,
started to bellow, though this was
obvious only by the extent to which he
was opening his face. His mother
pointed frantically to the car, and the
helpless dowager spoke back, her words
swallowed in the awful din. Soon the
two were arguing loudly but silently. As
the outraged mother tried to soothe the
kid instead of hurrying him out of range,
with a crash, the horn stopped and
Out of the startling silence came the high-
pitched, angry voice of the dowager:
“How the hell can I stop the dam”
Then vocal momentum was smothered
and she made a dive for the door.
» * * »
“Ron J”: The taking of votes from
train-travellers (B. 5/1 / ’49) is not so rare
and queer. N.S.W. Railways Department
has been doing it for years. The idea, of
course, is to fix the timing of a train to
suit the majority of the travellers, but
this worthy object is often frustrated by
would-be humorists among the passengers.
A few months ago the travellers on one
of those two-mile-an-hour mixed trains
which meander along branch lihes were
asked their opinion on starting the
train out half an hour earlier. One
suggested that time would be saved by
scrapping the engine and putting on
a couple of good draught-horses;
another wanted to know why the train
banged trucks about desolate, uninhabited
sidings for hours and only stopped a few
moments at stations where there was a
pub across the road. “At my place,”
another wrote, “the snorter is known
as the Tucker-time Express. You can bet
your sox that when the driver makes his
daily call for a billy of tea the family is
backed up to the table for a meal. But
that won’t help you if you are arranging
a trip into town because the old blighter
isn’t fussy; it might be breakfast-time,
dinner-time or tea-time when he Blows
in. It’s all the same to him.”
* * * *
“Yen”: “The Showman’s” review of
that Olympic Games film, “The Glory of
Sport” (B. 12/1 / ’49), was an excellent
summing-up of an outstanding docu-
mentary, but he was incorrect in saying
that “Merv Wood’s sculling victory is an
unhappy omission.” The version I saw
showed many shots of the race, and a
close-up of Merv shaking hands with the
other placegetters.
“The Showman”: We’re both right.
For some unexplained reason the sculling
sequences were omitted from the first
copies of the film received in Sydney.
The distributors released the film right
away and cabled London about the
omission, with the result that the shots
which “Yen” saw were received in time
for the suburban run.
* * * *
“Muskeen”: Boners by English writers
(B. 19/1/’49)? Writing of Deeming, the
gentleman who specialised in spouse-
interment under hearthstones, a crimino-
logist remarked that “it was curious that,
after frequently using the alias ‘Baron
Swanston,’ he should have been hanged
at Swanston jail, Melbourne.” Definitely
curious! There never was such a jail.
* * * *
“M.H.”: “Ike Hollar’s” vocal religious
fanatic (B. 26/1/’49) has counterparts
who appear in our city from time to time.
The other day one of these, a female,
during the lunch-hour battle of the foot-
path, abruptly stopped in front of a
kindly bloke from our office. “Have you,”
said she, holding a threatening forefinger
to his waistcoat, “thought of the awaken-
ing?” Barney gasped, but rose nobly to
the courteous reply. “My goodness, yes,”
he said; “every morning. That darned
alarm-clock never fails” “Tck,”. said
the lady, tossing her head and departing
in angry contempt like any other female.
* ♦ * *
“Horseless Horseman”: The day of the
old paddle-wheelers chugging along the
inland rivers is by no means over. The
70-year-old flagship of the Murray, the
Gem, which foundered below Wentworth
a few months back, has been raised and
taken to Morgan (S.A.) for refitting, while
the 84-year-old Murrumbidgee, which was
destroyed by fire shortly after she left
Echuca with passengers two months ago,
is to be replaced. Her owners, Murray
Valley Coaches, Ltd., have drawn up
plans to convert the vessel’s former wool-
barge, J. L. Roberts—a mere youngster;
she was built in 1894 —into an up-to-date
gum-tree liner to cater for the increasing
tourist trade. At the same time the Vic-
torian Coal Commission intends to open
the Oaklands coalfields near Yarrawonga.
The consulting-engineer for the commis-
sion has recommended the transporting of
the coal by river from Yarrawonga, not
only to Victorian river towns but to
South Australia.
* ♦ * •
“Lofty”: Adelaide has a burglar with
a flair for practical jokes. When a resi-
dent was attending a neighbor’s bonfire
on a fireworks night, his house was
entered by a night-prowler. After ran-
sacking the house the intruder called at
the outdoor lavatory, removed the candle
from the neck of the bottle on the shelf,
and substituted a “hunger.”
SPEND LESS, SAVE MORE.
Spend less, save more. This sage and sound
advice is
Chifley’s, suggested as a means to check
The wear-and-tear of ever-mounting prices,
A way to sock inflation in the neck;
And Labor Premiers dutifully stress
The need for saving more and spending less.
Pity they couldn’t start economising
On civil servants, growing every day,
And cease perpetually authorising
Increases in our politicians’ pay.
Appeals for needless squandering to stop
Should be initiated from the top.
Save more, spend less. It might be worth
appending
To Chifley’s somewhat copybookish phrase,
Why not give less facilities for spending
In utterly unnecessary ways?
“How oft the sight”—beyond all question—
“Of means to do ill deeds makes ill deeds
done.”
When horses, dogs and lotteries are selected
As planks in Labor’s platform to uplift
Humanity, you’d scarcely have expected
From such a source a homily on thrift.
Spend less, save more, we’re counselled, one
and each.
Why don’t our mentors practise what they
preach?
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


STILL GOING
BORN 1820
STRONG
r
Good Scotch Whisky
JOHNNIE WALKER
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD.. SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS
OF KILMARNOCK, SCOTLAND; LONDON AND SYDNEY
JW.125.6
BUILD...
with concrete JbMocks
Concrete block* and bridal
or* (he Ideal ' building 1
medium when made on a ;
*Hapid" machine. Theee _
machine# will make almoet
erery type ol brick at block..
Concrete block* and bride* j
or* i (be ideal ' buQding
mediant when made on a
*Hapid" - wwwi*tw* Theee
machine* «riH make nlmoel
every type el brick or I
block.
silos
SHEDS
HOMES
“Rapid” machines also
.make curved blocks
«for Silos, Water-tanks,
etc. Various types of
Concrete Mixers
available.
• Six model* available.
• Hand operated. . w *emi*
automatic.
•No ramming—no waiting
lor mixture to eel
• Capacity 3 block* per min.
• Priced to suit the indivi-
dual beme-buildet.
Writ* lat Uhubolod booklet pool boo.
HaU Sc Pyne Pty. Lid.
Manufacturers of Concrete Machinery
630 Warren ft*. MorrickvHle. N.5.W.. U 2441
The “ Curvilinear ” Concentrating Table
Send for
Bulletin
and Price
ssss
Simple
and
Reliable
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a
demonstration. Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery,
including stamp batteries, amalgamating tables, magnetic ore
separators, classifiers, „ agitators, everlasting valves, water- and oil-
filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories. bJectnc
motors and Ellison switch gear. I
Guthridge Pty. Limited,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Queensland Insurance Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit.* Dividends. serves, serves,
& St St St
1940.. 127,289 10 p.c. = 75,000 52,289 968,296
To reserve unexpired risks, £61,000.. 1,029,296
1941.. 124,928 10 p.c. = 75,000 49,928 1,079,224
To reserve unexpired risks, £15,000.. 1,094,224
1942.. 142,376 10 p.c. =: 75,000 67,376 1,161,600
To rtsei've uHexpired risks, £15,000 1,176,600
1948.. 149,637 10 p.c. = 75,000 74,637 1,251,237
To reserve unexpired risks, £15,000.. 1,266,237
1944.. 163,976 10 p.c. = 75,000 88,976 1,355,213
To reserve uneXpired risks, £15,000.. 1,370,213
1945.. 192,432 10 p.c. = 75,000 117,432 1,487,645
To reserve unexpired risks, £65,000.. 1,552,645
1946.. 177,.063 10 p.c. = 75,000 102,068 1,654,708
To reserve unexpired risks, £105,000.. 1,759,708
1947.. 196,429 10 p.c.* 75,000 121,429 1,881,137
To reserve unexpired risks, £160,000 2,031,187
1948.. 202,505 10 p.c. = 76,000 127,606 2,158,642
* After providing for unexpired risks.
This energetic and prosperous 62-year-
old Sydney-controlled fire, marine and
accident office, with world-wide connec-
tions, is a handsome contributor to Aus-
tralia’s invisible exports—a fact likely to
be appreciated more when the terms of
trade move against us than at the
moment. Excepting eastern Canada, all-
round expansion was the keynote of the
latest accounts. Abroad improvement
was most marked in Malaya, India and
Pakistan, while direct Underwriting was
resumed in Java shortly before the books
closed, and the over-all loss experience
(down £2 Bs. p.c.) was a very satisfactory
one.
Net premium income (up £271,440)
reached a record figure:—
■ , _ Ne t Loss Expensa
Sept. Premiums. Claims. Expenses.! Rate. Rate.
1980.. 774,560 485,040 806,804 62.6 p.c. 89.8 p.c.
1940.. 743,309 382,520 296,822* 61,4 „ 39.9 „
1948.. 900,871 412,403 404,823* 45.7 „ 44.9 „
1944.. 907,559 412,989 405,500* 45.5 „ 44.6 „
1945.. 932,777 866,495 420,671* 42.5 „ 45.1 ..
1946.1,041,848 463,208 434,471* 44.4 „ 41.7 „
1947. 1,253,008 616,765 446,523* 49.2 „ 35.6
1948. 1,524,443 718,832 576,928* 46.8 „ 37.8 „
* Excludes taxes, etc., on returns from Investments
£70,779 in 1948. ! Including contributions to
staff funds.
The growth of £2 4s. p.c. in the expense
rate was due almost entirely to taxation,
which took 12,1 p.c. of net premiums as
against 10.1 p.c. in 1947. Gross under-
writing surplus was £233,683 (up £43,968),
of which £150,000 (up £45,000) was
added to the reserve for unexpired risks,
leaving a net surplus of £83,683 (down
£1032). Interest and rents turned a net
£118,822 (up £7108), making the profit
claimed from all sources £202,505 (up
£6076).
That was after allowing for unexpired
risks at the liberal rate of 60 p.c. of net
premium income. On the usually
accepted basis of a 40 p.c. reserve for
unexpired risks, the year’s net return
from all sources would be £243,929 (up
£26,961), or 32.5 p.c. on the £750,000 of
capital as against 28.9 p.c. and 26,5 p.c,
for the two preceding terms. A glance
at the introductory table, however, shows
that at Sept. 30 last there was £2,158,642
of reserves supporting and assisting paid
capital, and shareholders are entitled to
a fair return on the two combined, on
which the £243,929 of profit was no more
than 8.3 p.c.
The solid protection for both policy-
holders and shareholders is in this form:
, 1947 v— —1948
p.c. p.c.
Gov. securities .. £2,111,877 46.6 £2,216,764 48.6
Municipal sec’ties 51,429 1.1 61,429 1.1
Cash, debtors,
shares, etc. .. 1,626,72& 85.9 2,059,025 40.6
Freeholds ~ 742,948 16.4 745,437 14.7
Total assets .. £4,532,475 100.0 £5,072,655 100.0
Liabilities* .. 1,863,888 2,126,513
| Net assets ..£2,668,687 £2,946,142
* Including contingencies.
j Because the co. has “a sufficiency” of
i Government bonds and because of the
; low return received on fixed deposits,
more attention is now being given to
shares and mortgages* Of the year’s
growth of £432,304 in cash, debtors,
shares, etc., £62,313 was in respect of
shares and debentures (£512,832) and
£212,554 mortgages (£540,904). This
might be taken as a signal to the Trea-
sury that its cheap-money policy has been
forced to the limits of sound finance.
The market anticipated its benefits by
pricing the f.-p. pound ords. at 91s. (88s.
a year ago), giving an immediate return
of 2.2 p.c. on a 10 p.c, div. basis. The
investor at 91s. who looks for only 3.3
p.c. on his money counts on a 15 p.c.
div., or on a two-for-one bonus-scrip issue
and maintenance of the div. at 10 p.c.
Such an issue would lift paid capital to
£1,125,000, on which 10 p.c. would call
for £6322 less than last year’s net return
from interest and rents, etc.
Australian Cement, Ltd. (Melb.)
To Re-
Nov., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1939.. 98*753 12J p.c. = 95,054 3,699 312,162
1940.. 07,359 12$ „ ~95,054 2,305 314,467
1941.. 96,076 12$ „ „ 95,054 1.022 315,489
1942.. 95,431 ll| „ „ 85,549 9,882 325,371
1943.. 66,378 8 ~ ~60,835 6,543 330,914
1944.. 65,988 8 „ „ 60,835 5,153 336,067
1945.. 65,513 8 „ „ 60,835 4,678 340,745
1946.. 65,818 8 „ „ 60,835 4,983 345,728
1947.. 65,168 8 „ „ 60,835 4,333 350,061
1948.. 66,348 8 „ „ 60,835 5,508 356,569
This co. (paid capital £760,433) and
Kandos (paid capital £673,862) are two
holding concerns, each owning half
the £2,000,000 of capital in Australian
Portland Cement Pty., largest producer in
Australia. Its two plants have a com-
bined capacity of 475,000 tons p.a.—
Fyansford (Vic.) 275,000 tons and
Kandos (N.S.W.) 200,000 tons. To keep
plant capacity a step or two ahead of
foreseeable demand, and so retain its
hold upon the Victorian market, new
equipment is being installed at Fyansford,
lifting capacity there to 335,000 tons p.a.
And, as part of the incessant war against
costs, existing plants in both States are
being further modernised. Shareholders
in the two holding cos, will not be asked
to assist.
Apart from its holding in the operating
co., over whose figures the curtain re-
mains drawn, Australian Cement’s only
other assets at end November last were
Government securities £130,691, shares in
Bates (A’sia) Pty. £3750 and cash £5529.
The operating co. has sent along 6 p.c.
for each of the last half-dozen years,
compared with 9 p.t. for some years
before that, thus enabling Australian
Cement to pay 8 p.c. as against 12} p.c.
for the four years to 1941. Since there is
believed to be a comfortable margin be-
tween the operating co.’s earnings and
distributions, the 8 p.c. is probably a
much more comfortable matter than this
holding co.’s own figures suggest. Pro-
duction increased for the year to June 30
last, the figure for the Commonwealth
being 988,000 tons as against 882,000 tons
for the previous year and 868,000 tons
for 1938-39. Still, the Fyansford plant
was unable to work to capacity, owing to
shortage of black coal. But during the
last few months there has been marked
improvement in output, which augurs
well for the current year’s earnings as
well as the building trade.
As for the future, few industries enjoy
a more satisfactory outlook on the de-
mand side than cement. Owing to prior
demands for home-building, the heavy
consumers of the stuff (large-scale public
works, factory, office and flat buildings)
haven’t yet got into their stride. But pro-
duction per person engaged in the in-
dustry has declined, partly because of the
40-hour week. Much will depend upon
what happens in connection with costs,
still on the up-grade, and selling prices,
which are controlled.
Confident that the operating co, will
send along more some day, the market is
prepared to accept a moderate immediate
return on the scrip in the two holding
cos.:
Paec- Net
Value Market Last Tan-
Shares. Price. Div. Yield, glides.*
Aust. cement 20/ 49/ 8 p.c. 3.3 p.c. 29/4
Kandos .. 16/- 43/6 10 „ 3.7 „ 35/7
* Per pound of paid capital.
A variation of 1 p.c. in the div. from the
operating co. represents 1.3 p.c. and
1,4 p.c, on the capital of Australian
Cement and Kandos respectively.
Clifford Love and Co. t Ltd. (Sydney)
Net _ To Morainal
Sept., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.!
£ £ £ £
1940.. 32,461 10 p.c. = 22,188 10,273 178,058
1941.. 23,303 10 „ „ 22,188 1,115 179,173
1942.. 26,975 10 ~ ~ 22,188 4,787 183,960
1943.. 28,046 10 „ „ 22,188 5,858 189,818
1944.. 31,480 12J „ „ 27,735 3,745 193,563
1945.. 11,438 10 „ „ 22,188 182,813
1946.. 35,694 10 „ „ 22,188 13,506 196,819
1947.. 20,724 10 „ „ 22,188 194,855
Share premiums, £16,535 .. .. 221,390
1948.. 38,005 12|p.c.= 28,501 9,504 220,894
f Subject to trade-marks, etc., £72,500, and exclud-
ing contingencies, depreciation, etc., now £234,195.
As a long-term investment the scrip of
this dry-goods merchant, which turns out
some well-established proprietary lines,
has yielded very satisfactory results.
Ever since the public became interested
in 1922 a steady 10 p.c. has been paid,
sweetened with a 2\ p.c. bonus during a
half-dozen flush years to 1930 and in 1944
and again last term, as well as with new
share-issues, which have been in the
nature of bonuses to shareholders because
of the premium at which the scrip stood
in the market.
The last issue was 22,047 new £1 ords.
at a premium (fixed by Capital Issues
Board) of 15s. each. The new share and
premium money (there was still £3630 of
capital to come when the books closed),
together with an extra £31,305 from
sundry creditors and the year’s surplus
earnings, etc., went mainly into stocks (up
£30,238), plant (up £10,880) and cash, etc.
(up £69,879):
1940. 1946. 1947. 1948.
Paid capital.. £221,884 £221,884 £221,884 £240,299
Sundry creditors 30,090 37,825 31,875 63,180
Tax reserve.. 16,500 19,500 12,000 30,000
Properties* .. 197,973 212,492 218,389 218,222
Plant, etc.* .. 168,922 194,455 209,284 220,164
Stocks .. 93,660 136,538 121,117 161,355
Debtors ~ 45,030 50,095 61,293 62,676
Cash, etc. .. 21,909 29,052 5,318 75,197
*At cost.
Financially the position is obviously com-
fortable, and the co. is ready to go ahead
with further expansion of its activities.
The collapse of earnings in 1945 was
due to failure of the oats and maize crops
in N, S. Wales, and closing down of the
oatmeal and cornflower mills for most of
the term. In the following year grain and
cereals came forward in better volume,
but drought again affected the 1947
figure. Last term nature was kind and,
with increased manufacturing capacity,
turnover got a nice lift, thus softening
the blow from advancing costs. After
allowing £30,000 (up £18,000) for taxa-
tion, the net result advanced by £17,211,
reaching £38,005, or 16.6 p.c. on average
capital as against 9.3, 16.1, 5.4, 14.1 and
12.6 p.c. back to 1943. And the actual
position appears to have been better than
claimed; of the £12,452 added to the re-
serve for depreciation and contingencies,
etc. (£234,194), £4473 was on account of
contingencies that might or might not
occur.
Seasonal conditions are favorable for
the coming grain crop, and the board
looks forward to “a satisfactory trading
period.” The market therefore counts on
maintenance of the 121 p.c. distribution,
and prices the scrip at 615., giving a
return of 4.1 p.c. Excluding the reserve
for depreciation, etc., some of which
appears to be genuine profit, net tangible
cover is 38s. Id.
The Mutual Acceptance Co., Ltd. (Syd.)
June, Profit. Pref. Qrd. Total. Reserves.
1937.. 4,502 P 7* P ?’ 2,588 U 948
1988.. 8,906 9 12J 6,361 4,493
1939. . 11,842 9 12J 9,461 6,874
1940.. 9,456 8 8 7,200 9,130
1941.. 12,961 9 10 8,551 13,540
Unexplained reduction, £2303 .. 11,237
1942.. 7,707 7 7 6,300 12,644
1943.. 4,313 5J 4J 4,275 12,682
, 1944.. 441 Nil Nil 13,123
1945.. 1,185 3 1,350 12,958
Profit, sale of assets, £2785 .. 15,743
1946.. 2,358 5 2,250 15,851
Profit, sale of assets, £1276 ~ 17,127
Expenses, new issue, £lBO5 .. 15’522
19 1 7- ; 8,189 5 8 5,429 18*082
Profit, sale of assets, £541 .. .. is 623
1948.. 11,343 5 10 7,500 22^466
Original pref. capital (7 p.c., participating to
9 p.c.) was repaid in March, 1943 ; a new
issue of 5 p.c. prefs. was made November, 1946.
Not to be frustrated by the Treasury’s
ban on a new share-issue of £50,000
sought late in 1947, the board of Mutual
Acceptance decided to form two new com-
panies—each having the maximum capital
of £25,000 that could be raised
without official questioning. Practically
all the money was put up by shareholders
of Mutual Acceptance, who were given
an undertaking that shares in the new
companies would be exchanged on a
pound-for-pound basis into Mutual
Acceptance scrip when legally possible.
The associate companies had barely cfele-
brated their first birthday last month
when Treasury approval for this final
step was obtained. As a result, Mutual
Acceptance has been able to raise its
capital from £90,000 to £140,000 without
charging a premium (the shares are
quoted around 325. on ’Change), in
about half the two years’ period which
normally would have been required. The
most curious aspect of the affair is Can-
berra’s apparent change of heart.
Mutual Acceptance is getting into its
stride again after a lean war-time
period, during which its pref, capital
was temporarily retired. The pre-
sent scale of general hire-purchase
business (as distinct from cash orders)
isn’t available from official statis-
tics, but there has obviously been a big
stimulus from post-war sales of motor-cars,
furniture, etc. The fourfold expansion of
this co.’s advances shown by the figures
since 1946 doesn’t take into account the
activities of its two offspring, so an
even more striking growth will doubtless
be revealed in the next balance-sheet.
The parent co.’s own advances rose
£39,392 last year:
1938. 1946. 1947. 1948.
Paid capital—
Preference.. £37,500 £30,000 £30,000
Ordinary .. 37,575 £45,007 60,007 60,007
Overdraft .. 51,888 11,926 94,916 108,824
Creditors & tax 22,803 4,937 27,392 18,660
Suppliers’
guarantees.. 12,975 1,126 773 713
Hiring charges
in advance 6,359 28,890 44,972
Freeholds .. 13,326 13,326
Fittings .. 1,192 1,337 1,128 1,864
H.p. and other
debtors .. 168,987 66,278 248,510 287,802
Cash, etc. .. 11 6,515 96 76
The new business was financed by the
sale of property acquired during the war
(yielding a final profit of £541), by
£13,908 additional overdraft and a rise
of £16,082 in unearned moneys held in
suspense.
The introductory profits table covers
the full career of Mutual Acceptance
since it was formed in 1936 to discount
the hire-purchases of Bloch and Gerber,
Ltd., and Royal Art Furnishing Co., Ltd.
Each of these firms is represented on its
board, and Mutual Acceptance has de-
veloped finance associations with other
retailers. Last year’s net profit of £11,343,
after unspecified expenses and provisions,
was £l6lB less than the record 1941
figure; it represented 16.4 p.c. on ordi-
nary capital after pref. commitments,
leaving a comfortable margin above the
10 p.c. dividend. With net tangible
cover of 275. sd. each (practically all
represented by advances, and' before
including figures of the two associate
cos.), the ords. at 325. would yield 6.2 p.c,
on the basis of a 10 p.c. hand-out.
Burma Malay Group
The parent, Burma Malay Tin (paid
capital £150,000 in £1 shares), is an Aus-
tralian-controlled holding and prospecting
concern registered at Kuala Lumpur,
Malaya. A loss of £382 was recorded for
the year to June 30 last, no divs. being
received on shareholdings. There was
then £3342 coming to outsiders, and
debtors’ balances and cash totalled £7BlB.
Main asset was £109,752 of investments,
made up as follows:
Shares
Held Face- Book-
by B.M. Value. Value(a)
Katu 38,290 20/- £52,648
Renong Consolidated .. 37,440 20/ 49,608
Eatrut Basin .. .. 7,000(b) 20/ Nil
Eatrut Basin .. .. 17(c) £lOO 1,360
Briseis .. .. 125,852 5/- 5,034
New Occidental .. 5,100 5/ 697
Sesame Gold .. .. 88,000 5/- Nil
Mataki Gold .. .. 44,000 2/6 Nil
Com. Loan 3£ p.c. .. 405
(a) Sterling, (b) 10 p.c. Ist prefs. (c) 7i p.c.
debentures.
Only Katu and Renong Consolidated are
now of any importance as revenue pro-
ducers. Both are in production again, thus


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Institution. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
„ DIRECTORS:
E. R, KNOX (Chairman), P. W. HIXSON, ORWELL PHILLIPS,
G. P. HUGHES, R. J. YIOARS, J. W. DUNLOP.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
Why not buy one Now
f 9 r YOUR KITCHEN
Housewives in old fashioned homes as well as
new can readily enjoy the advantages of a
Stainless Steel Sink Unit . . . the gleaming
hygienic finish that is easy to keep clean
and sparkling. Save time and eliminate
drudgery by installing a Wunderlich Stainless
Steel Sink Unit; tfiey are available for
immediate delivery either 4 ft., 5 ft. or 6 ft.
long by l'6" wide; they feature a bowl of
generous dimensions and are backed with
timber to simplify installation.
Ask your local Hardware Merchant, 'phone
MX 2411, or write to Box 474, G.P.O. Sydney,
for further information and prices.
cleric c/t
INK. UNITS
r IN STAINLESS.STEEL
A PRODUCT OF OUTSTANDING QUALITY OF THE
METALWORKING DIVISION OF WUNDERLICH LIMITED
m
‘"You can taste
the EXTRA flavour
in 535 Virginia
cigarettes”
The secret’s in the
333 S blend . . .
d
STATE
EXPRESS
333
always please
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —Advt.
Positions Vacant.
APPLICATIONS are invited for the fol-
lowing Staff positions by The Baub
Australian Gold Mining Co., Ltd., Malaya.
(1) MILL SUPERINTENDENT: A fully-
experienced Mill Superintendent is re-
quired. Commencing salary £BOO/ £lOOO
Sterling per annum according to qualifi-
cations, plus cost-of-living allowance.
(2) MINE FOREMEN: Two Section
Foremen are required. Applicants should
submit evidence of sound practical ex-
perience covering underground opera-
tions. Holders of Mine Manager’s or
Underground Supervisor’s Tickets desirable
but not essential. Salary £6o®/£7OO
Sterling per annum according to experi-
ence, plus cost-of-living allowance.
In addition to the salaries specified
above the successful applicants will be
allowed free quarters and a cost-of-
living allowance subject to revision from
time to time, which is approximately
£2OO Sterling per annum at present.
Fares and reasonable travelling expenses
paid to the Mine. ‘ At the end of con-
tracted period of service, six months’
leave granted bn full pay with return
fares. Successful applicants must present
a satisfactory Health Certificate. Appli-
cations, with references and particulars
of age and marital state, should be sent
to The' Secretaries, CHAS. A. CLARKE
& SON, Box No. 277 D, Q.P.0., Brisbane,
FREE
fd
TRIAL
Rupture Sufferers:
Call or send stamp
for details of the
new Roussel Rup-
ture Appliance.
Self-measurement Form and 14 Days’
Free Trial Offer. No obligation.
Thousands satisfied.
ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
ij jewelled
movement sin
exclusive
modem
cases
r
t-
v
o //
V J.
£5. «V
UwlhA
watches
FOUNDED IN tISt
HLLEKET SUISSE
Good Livings
where does it
come from ?
The more we desire Good Living, the
greater the need to understand where it comes
from.
It comes, of course, out of the work of the
whole community the work of the farmer
and the grazier; out of the dreaming and plan-
ning of the men who establish factories to
bake bread or to make shoes —• or shops in
which to sell them; the men who pioneer the
flying and ’bus services.
|
It comes from the work of the men and
women in the shops and factories, in the res-
taurants; from the devoted work of the women
in our homes. It comes from the work of all
of us. The more work, honestly done by the
community, the better its living. '
The old Truth still stands: In the long
run we get what we give , neither more nor less.
This Bank has worked in the knowledge
of that Truth since it was founded 114 years
ago,
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
Board of Directors:
EDWARD R. KNOX, Chairman.
GEOFFREY F. HUGHES, Deputy Chairman. ORWELL PHILLIPS,
DOUGLAS R. LYSAGHT, Dr. EDWARD W. FAIRFAX,
ROBERT J. VICARS.
General Manager: A. S. OSBORNE.
brightening the parent’s pros-
pects of a return to the dividend
list. Sellers ask 14s. and buyers
offer 12s, 6d. for the scrip.
Katu (paid capital £150,000 in
£1 shares), operating at Puket
Island, west-coast Siam, got its
all-electric dredge in full swing
again on March 15, 1948. By
June 30 it had dug 377,000 c.y.
for 131.3 tons t. 0., an average of
0.781 b. per yard. The lot realised
£37,188, after deducting royalties
(£13,156). Allowing for Malayan
income tax (£2000), the profit
was £16,400, or 10.9 p.c. on
capital. Working in 0.651 b.
ground, which is below mine
average, the dredge turned over
624.000 c.y. for 182.23 tons t.o.
during the six months to end
1948. While tin remains around
its present price (£560 a ton in
Siam), and provided costs
(Is. 1.2 d. a yard last term) don’t
get out of hand, the co. should
be able to win handsome profits.
There are about 12,000,000 c.y.,
bored to average 1.11 b., ahead of
the dredge. On a turnover of
1.250.000 c.y. p.a. there is thus
nine and a half years’ work in
sight. When the books closed
there were current assets total-
ling £45,470 to meet £6917
coming to sundry creditors.
The co.’s war-damage claims
amount to £193,821, against
which £20,896 has been received
in rehabilitation advances. A
sum of £11,076 was received for
ore extracted during the occupa-
tion, and the book-value of the
property has been adjusted
accordingly. In 1940 and 1941
the co. paid 20 p.c. and 17.5 p.c.
respectively. The market prices
the scrip at 30s.
Renong Consolidated (paid
capital £160,000 in £1 shares) re-
corded a loss of £550 for the
year to June 30, 1948. The
property at Renong, west-coast
Siam, was repossessed in Oct.,
1947, but the 250,000 c.y,-a
month electric dredge didn’t set
in again until Sept. 23, 1948.
For the three months to end
Dec. the machine turned over
624.000 c.y. for 115.88 tons t. 0.,
an average of 0.411 b, per yard.
During the year £62,328 was re-
ceived for ore extracted during
the occupation, and the book-
value of the property has been
reduced accordingly. Co.’s war-
damage claim totals £130,231,
against which an advance of
£26,030 had been received on
rehabilitation account. When
the books closed current assets
totalled £87,949, and there was
£10,195 coming to sundry credi-
tors. Ore reserves are estimated
at 21,500,000 c.y. of 0.431 b. dirt,
or about eight and a half years’
work for the dredge on an
annual turnover of 1,250,000 c.y.
Sellers ask 295. for the scrip on
the market.
Dominating factor in the price
of tin at the moment is Ameri-
can strategic stockpiling. Ex-
actly how much metal is re-
quired for this purpose is not
publicly known, but figures of
upwards of 200,000 tons have
been freely mentioned. For
ordinary industrial purposes
production appears to have just
about caught up with demand.
Mine operating costs are still
rising.
Triton (W.A.), strangled by
high costs and a major
mechanical breakdown, has
accepted, subject to ratification,
a tender from Gold Exporation
and Finance of £120,000 for its
plant, buildings, equipment, etc.
The co. also has about £24,000
in hand, and some minor assets
to be disposed of as soon as
possible. It owes the Common-
wealth Government £76,000 and
Gold Exploration and Finance
£40,500, thus leaving £27,500
(6.8 d. a share), plus whatever
may come from remaining dis-
posals, etc., less liquidation exes.,
to divide among its own 960,000
f.-p. 10s. shares. The tenderer
will pay a further sum if the
plant is redisposed of for more
than £120,000.


ABORIGINALITIES
"Wippegong”: A small, compact flock
of galahs skim at easy pace across the
plain. Although it is near sundown there
are no aerobatics; the birds move
as though by appointment, steadily,
straight and silently except for the
occasional single cry inseparable from
galahs in their waking hours. You’d think
they were heading for some customary
roost, yet they’re passing plenty of box
and wilga, so it can’t be that; then you
notice that about 40 yards behind there
follows a steely shadow, gliding most of
the time, now and then flicking a wing
with that casual relaxation you see in top-
performers at their peak. He keeps the
distance —he can wait—and the fowl
ahead snuggle into tighter formation,
knowing that only thus have they a
chance. Then the strain tells. One galah
screams harshly, swings out a few feet
and banks sharply to regain the flock, but
he’s too late ; the shadow has become a
projectile, and with a smack you can hear
chains away the galah is struck. The
falcon never falters, just swings clear,
beating strongly to gain height, a limp
bundle of pale grey and rose catching
the sunlight beneath the sinister pinions
that bear it away; and a small, compact
flock of galahs skim on at easy pace
across the plain.
* * * *
Fisher’s ghost may or may
not exist (B. 19/1/’49), but there are
things on Norfolk Island. We knew there
was a haunted room in the old residency
at Kingston,’ and a gloomy bedroom,
looking through barred windows to a
small courtyard, through which the wind
moaned in proper fashion, seemed the
right choice. The bull-terrier decided on
another room through which we passed
to reach the sleep-out verandah. Getting
the dog into his room needed combined
pushing from behind. He proved to be
correct; this was the room haunted by
the young girl who fell in love with her
convict music-master, and died of heart-
break after discovery led to his hanging.
She could be heard, if you dared listen,
playing sadly on her harpsichord. A
second spectre was abroad: one night,
alone in the house, I saw the dog look up
from his possie at my feet and stare hard
at a corner of the room behind my chair.
Lips writhing back, hackles up, he backed
snarling into the passage and couldn’t be
induced to return. I managed to look
behind me ; there was nothing but the
usual mildewed wall. Both my husband
and I heard footsteps in the hall on
occasions when we were each alone.
Again the dog showed fear, but when the
steps stopped outside the door, and the
man of the house stepped boldly out,
there was nothing. The result when, in
my turn, I crept across and peered warily
through a crack was the same. Ghosts
flitted around old courtyards, Pine-avenue
and Bloody Bridge, but those at the resi-
dency were the only ones to whom I was
introduced.
“Aperist”: Tell “Zake” (B. 5/1/’49)
that the homely blue-bag is the perfect
anodyne, not only for the bee-sting but
for all insect-bites and -stings. The reason
has nothing to do with color but with the
chemical nature of the two different sub-
stances. Laundry-blue is an alkali, while
the poison injected by the insect is an
acid. Thus the blue, if applied before
the tiny wound caused by sting or bite
closes, soon neutralises the acid.
Ammonia, being a powerful alkali, will,
of course, act even more efficiently. But
it is the blue-bag that is always handy and
so gets the preference. As for eucalyptus,
it is chemically a substance classed as a
fatty base, actually an organic acid and
thus quite worthless as an antidote to an
acid poison; though conceivably, being
of a penetrating nature when applied to
the skin, it might dilute the poison and
so ameliorate the pain. As for “Z.’s” idea
of running around looking for„a safety-
razor blade with which to scrape the bee-
sting out —the suggestion is excellent, but
since the sting, if left for’even a few
seconds, keeps working itself deeper in,
the practical man cultivates long thumb-
nails. A razor-blade, too, is an unhandy
implement to fingers sticky with honey,
* * * *
“Tomjoey”: There’s nothing like
hunger to make one abandon prejudices.
Years ago two men engaged me to drive
them out to some big swamps where they
wished to spend a week studying bird-
life. I soon found that they would like
to see anything protected that grew fur
or feathers. I shot a Too, and next
morning started to grill some of the steak
for my breakfast. Five minutes of that
tantalising odor was enough; on the
ground that they might as well use the
meat “now that it had been shot,” my
companions also had ’roo steak for break-
fast. During the rest of our stay all the
tinned stuff was ignored. I’ve been
reminded of this by a letter to a news-
paper in which one of the two deplored
the “wanton destruction of marsupial
life” which took place when 2000 kan-
garoos were shot on one station. How-
ever, he made no attempt to explain how
the owner could produce mutton and
wool to help feed and clothe human
beings if he allowed a mob of ’roos to
eat his grass. But, of course, the man
who wrote the letter wasn’t feeling hungry
then. Another ornithologist whom I
"Now use more discretion tonight — We're having company."
accompanied on many occasions went
about things in a different way. He shot
quite a lot of wildfowl himself but never
with the intention of eating them; it was
purely *to “examine the stomach con-
tents.” After his examination the bird
invariably went into the pot because it
would be “a pity to waste it,” There
was never any lack of roast duck in the
camp while he was on the job!
♦ * * *
“Bo”: Old Bob the Brander —so-called
because everything he possessed in his
little shanty beside the creek had bis
initials carved on it—had been emphatic
that all the signs pointed to a long
drought. “I can tell,” he asserted. “Why,
me com ain’t been givin’ me gyp for
munce now. Look at the sorlt—ain’t
clogged up. Sugar runs through y’r
fingers. Ants ain’t been rushin’ indoors
or try in’ to git to higher ground. Haven’t
seen a black cockatoo for donkey’s years,
No, son, y’ can gamble on it, old Hughie
won’t be sendin’ it down yet! ” That
night the gauge measured 480 points, and
just on daybreak a rescue-party got old
Bob out with three feet of water swirl-
ing around his bunk and rising fast. As
we looked down from the safety of a
low hill to the roaring torrent that a
few hours before had been a tranquil
creek, someone chatted Bob about his
prediction. The old bloke screwed his
eyes up at the black sky. "Well, I was
right, wasn’t I?” he bellowed to make
his voice heard above the hammering on
the iron verandah-roof, “You don’t call
this bit of a shower rain, do y’?”
♦ • # «
“Ess Gee”: Am inclined to doubt
“Wellpipe’s” yarn (B. 19/1 /’49) about the
bees which swiped lacquer which had just
been put on a car. For one thing A pis
mellifica makes it a strict practice to be
home before dark and to stay indoors
till daybreak. Admittedly bees do use
some queer substances for plastering up
cracks, sometimes using bitumen from
near-by roads, though they mustn’t be
blamed for all the potholes. . But what
kind of lacquer did “W.’s” selector use
that would be soft enough for any insect
to remove any portion of it overnight?
Most if not all car lacquers dry imme-
diately. And apiarists know that any bee
alighting on any surface covered in
honey or other sticky substance is doomed
to stay there.
* * * *
“Chuck”: “Signs o’ the times,” grinned
Bob. “I told y’ it’d come.” He pointed
to the bloke messing round with a motor-
bike down near the gate. “He’s looking
for work.” The old bloke came round
with a jerk. “Eh? D’ you say lookin’
for work ?” He made off towards the
gate. “That’s right,” the stranger an-
swered his question, “and I ain’t fright-
ened of a bit of hard stuff, either. Been
strippin’ two ton o’ wattle-bark a week
where I come from. Anything round
here? Don’t mind findin’ meself, if y’
provide a decent hut with a fireplace and
good bedding.” “Righto,” Dad nodded.
“I want some posts split, an’ that line o’
fence renewed on top o’ the hill there,
and that rough hill further over needs
diggin’ out.” The stranger glanced round
disinterestedly. “No wattle-bark?i” he
murmured. “Never touch -anything but
wattle-bark. Even willing to pay up to
quarter what I make for a good patch;
and, mind y’, that doesn’t leave me more’n
a bout, eighteen quid a week for meself.
Aw, well, if y’ got no work round here,
I’ll push on.” The old bloke gazed after
him. “Yair, y’re right there,” he an-
swered Bob sadly. “Signs o’ the times,
awright.”
* * * *
“Billy T.”: Old Nigger is not the dog
he was. The accumulated scars of a com-
bltive career have made no marked
change in his appearance—they came
gradually, unlike those of most of his
opponents. Nor have any of his col-
lisions left a trace, owing partly, perhaps,
to the agility he acquired through the
habit of stepping out of the utility at
high speed when he saw a magpie he
wanted. He grew a bit peaky during the
fortnight that Long John, his owner and
his god, was in hospital, for L.J. had
stopped at the store en route, and Nigger,
diverted for a moment by a rival, missed
him as he came out, so he camped for
the two weeks on the road in front of
the emporium until the truck brought
the long bloke back. But the other day
his confidence was shattered and his poise
wrecked. He had been in the habit of
spending portion of milking-time in the
engine-room, partly for the warmth,
mainly because he liked to massage his
rump on the spinning axle of the fly-
wheel, but he failed to see that compli-
cations might arise when the boss fitted
a wooden pulley to the axle and put a
V-belt on it. In he came, backed up as
usual to his mechanical masseur, and—
zzt!—the treacherous machine snatched
his tail, snapped it, spun it once and flung
it away all before an agonised yelp an-
nounced that Nigger was on his way out.
Now, when the long bloke goes into that
shed a chastened hound slips in side-
ways, a hairy boomerang tucked down
close where his swaggering rudder used
to swing, and giving his boss a look that
seems to say, “I have to suffer trials that
you could never know.”
* * ♦ «
“Hanko”: Old Fritz implored me to
shoot the “padgers” that were destroying
his fences and root-crops. He gave me a
gun, a fearsome antique of which I was
terrified. One of its hammers wouldn’t
stay cocked, the other was on a hair-
trigger so light the veriest jolt would set
it off. One moonlit night I watched the
wombats deal bulldozer-fashion with the
wire-netting, and they certainly made a
job of it. When I risked a shot in the
general direction of the Southern Cross
the ’bats went out of the field, but they
made new openings in the netting for
their exit. Fritz mourned that with “der
goot gun und nombers den shod” I slew
not a single padger. “Ach, padgers der
hide as rhinostriches haf,” he said.
* * * *
“Arthur R.”; Travelling through
south-western Victoria after heavy rains
I saw many evidences of rabbits and birds
having been bogged in the heavy clay
soil. But the most amazing sight was
that of a snake, badly incommoded by
the mud of a road across which it was
wriggling, being attacked by a number
of starlings before it could make the
shelter of the bush scrub and firmer
ground on the opposite side of the track"
* * * *
“Old Bushman”: Few indigenous trees
surely grow more quickly than young
gums in East Gippsland. Along the 90-
mile of telephone line following the
Princes Highway between Orbost and
Genoa, the saplings, the linesmen find,
lengthen themselves ,10 to 12 feet annually
according to variety 41 and locality. Which
reminds me. Two of us camped in among
those suckers one night. Next morning
an old stockman rode up and, glancing
at the cleared spot where our swags lay,
asked laconically, “Did you have a good
sleep?” After our nodded affirmative
he added, “It’s a wonder—you camped
on old John Blank’s grave!”
* * * *
; “8.A.”: The question (B. 26/1/’49),
“If snakes can’t go backwards, how do
they dig their holes?” is easily answered
—they don’t have to go backwards. I’ve
seen snakes dug out of rabbit-burrows
and root-holes, and in every case the
reptile was found with his fore-part laid
back along his body facing the entrance
ready to repel intruders. In that posi-
tion he would have no trouble in sliding
out whenever the spirit moved him.
Every snake is gifted with enough of the
wisdom of the Old Serpent to give him-
self plenty of elbow-room in the tunnel
he selects.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: In referring to our abo-
rigines as “the most archaic people now
existing on earth” (B. 19/1/’49), J. H. M.
Abbott is distinction belongs
to the Negrito. This is the picture
which ethnologists have built up after
years of research: 20,000 years ago the
world had a numerous and well-distri-
buted human population; then came a
terrible disaster in the form of the last
ice age. It did not come suddenly; the
winters steadily increased in severity, the
polar ice-caps grew bigger, and finally
a huge sheet of ice, similar to that lying
today over the interior of Greenland,
lay over the northern portions of Europe,
Asia and America. Because of the im-
mense quantities of water locked up in
the ice-sheets, the levels of the oceans
sank until areas which now have up to
200 ft. of sea over them were dry land.
Out of Asia came a human horde, driven
by the cold towards tro’pic warmth and
sun, and as they moved towards the
Equator they drove ahead of them the
primitive forest-dwelling folk, who crossed
the now-nafrow straits and shallow seas
on rafts. They entered Australia via
New Guinea, moved into most of this
continent and reached Tasmania by cross-
ing Bass Strait on rafts; at that time
it was narrow, shallow and dotted with
numerous islands. The straits were wide
enough to prevent the tiger, monkey,
elephant and deer from also reaching
New Guinea and Australia. Those
.primitive forest-dwellers were the
Negrito ; in Tasmania they died out dur-
ing the first century of white settlement,
but they survive today in the mountains
of New Guinea, the interior of the
Philippines, on the Andaman Islands and
in one community on the Australian
mainland. Following the Negrito came
a bigger and stronger people, who also
crossed the sea-channels on rafts; they
brought with them the first animal to
be domesticated —the dog. They extermi-
nated the Negrito on the Australian
mainland, with the exception of one
colony, but could not reach Tasmania, as
the ice age was then ending and the
waters of the oceans were rising again;
this second wave of people were our
present aborigines, who also survive in
the Veddah of Ceylon and the Sakhai
of Malaya. Incidentally, the melting of
those hug© ice-sheets when the worlds
climate became warm again caused tor-
rential rains and floods of such magni-
tude that accounts of them persisted in
legends right down to the time when
history came to be written instead of
spoken, and the Biblical account of &e
deluge is but one example of many. To
the Negrito belongs the distinction of be-
ing the most primitive type of humatr
being surviving today.
MOAMA.
Where old Moama’s ruins stand
Or lie or idly lean,
The banks are high and, slow and grand,
Old Murray rolls between.
Cobb’s coaches swept along that road
Where the old smithy stood —
How the big headlamps glared and glowed
Across the river’s flood!
’Twas here Dan Morgan crossed, men say,
To Peachelba and doom;
His hoofbeats stirred the dusty way,
The long miles gave him room ...
Here the first river-steamer came
To wake the gums with din—
The Mary Ann her homely name,
She moored at Maiden’s Inn.
At Maiden’s Inn the cattle strayed—
Big mobs for Bendigo—
While drovers danced and Addles played
Until the morning glow;
And in high floods, the paddleboats
Would tie up at the bar,
While men sang songs with husky throats
Of river-ports afar..,
The railway passed a mile away—
So does the highway now.
Few know where old Moama lay
There on the headland’s brow.
Few steamers pass this way, yet still
The river’s arms are true
To old Moama on the hill
Dreaming the long days through.
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


THE OLD ROAD.
The ancient trail was difficult, bewildering and
long,
But everybody knew it, nobody went wrong;
The engineers condemned it, thought it out of
date,
Cut out all the curly bits, made it plain and
straight.
The cop at the crossroads sees it otherwise,
He looks upon the old road with wistful, long-
ing eyes,'
Directs the doubting motorist into the dying
way.
Takes his name and number if he will not obey.
The elder drivers love it, known since they were
born,
They look upon the new road with pity mixed
with scorn,
Take the tricky corners with proud and easy air,
The grass may have the new road for all they
care.
A youngster takes the sceptre when the old cop
retires,
Weeds choke the old road, the hedges grow
again,
Little birds nest there among the ferns and
briars,
The new road’s a death-trap, the old a lovers’
lane.
n.z. Arnold Wall.
* * * *
“Blime”: “Saved a bloke’s life the
other day,” Dill remarked, as I dropped
off and began rolling a smoke. “Not that
it was much worth savin’, but that wasn’t
my fault. In that rocky gully that runs
up t’ Blacktop. Know the place?” I
assured him I did. “Well, I’m ridin’ up
there, see, when I hears a bloke bawlin’
out ‘Help! Help!’—jus’ like that. ’Course
it wasn’t any affair o’ mine, an’ I ain’t
one t’ butt in, but hang me if half an
hour later the cow ain’t still doin’ it. So
I go over t’ see what he’s bawlin’ for.
He’s squatted on a little narrer ledge on
that rocky side, about twenty-feet down
from the top o’ the cliffy an’ more’n that
straight up from the bottom. Looked
damn’ silly, if y’ ask me ; and he yells
out t’ me about gettin’ him down. Me!
Gripes, I never put him there, an’, any-
way, there wasn’t a foothold or nothin’
on that face, so I bellered out an’ asked
’im how he got up. T didn’t get up, y’
goat, I come down,’ he bawled. ‘Well,’
I says, ‘if y’ ain’t up, whatcha wanta get
down for?’ We argued for a bit, an’ it
seems he musta fell over the top, see? He
reckons the only way t’ get down is with
a rope, so I tell him I’ll prob’ly be back
that way in a coupla days an’ I’ll try ’n’
remember t’ bring one. Gripes, he nilly
fell orf the ledge. I’m just ridin’ away
after that, when I remembers the rope I
got on me saddle, so I climbs back on the
rocks an’ chucks him one end o’ that.
‘Tie it round y’r middle,’ I tell him, ‘then
stand up on the edge.’ Then I give a
helluva pull. Yair, I got him down
awright,” Dill concluded, “but he weren t
much good. The fall down to the ledge
from the top had knocked him about so
bad they had to bung the poor cow inter
the hospital.”
* * * *
“Horse”; Conway, I think they said
his name was. But nobody apparently
knew him, and his vocabulary seemed to
be reduced to a series of grunts which
sounded like “Ebagoolah” and a rather
“Well have to shift her away from them monkeys."
crisper demand for baccy. Hair and
beard fitted his wizened old fiz like a
furry frame. His long white beard would
have made any department-store Santa
speechless with envy—and it was genuine,
if ragged. The old codger waved us
through—all 90-odd trucks of us—when
we made our last trip overland from the
Cape to Mareeba, in .Queensland. Story
goes that Conway came to Ebagoolah
when the gold was plentiful and not too
hard to get at. He dropped in at the
local for a dust-damper and got chatting
to Bung, who, suddenly remembering
urgent business out of town, asked
the old ’un to mind the pub. Con-
way agreed, and away went Bung to
Laura. Conway is still minding the
pub. He’s also minding the town ; he’s
sole inhabitant of a ghost town which
once boasted quite a population. Didn t
have time to check up, but they say there s
no grog in the pub nowadays.
* * * *
“Edjudina”: Blacktrackers can’t track
over bare rock (B. 12/1/’49) unless the
person tracked has been shod with boots,
the iron plates of which may have scored
the rock surface. But where bare feet
are being followed the best of trackers
may lose the trail even on very hard
ground. When this happens an intelligent
black makes a wide cast round in a half-
circle, giving particular attention to any-
thing in the nature of a dry watercourse
where the accumulated sand may have
taken a footprint. Was once present at
a search for a small child lost on the
Westralian goldfields. Towards the end
half a dozen trackers were on the job;
yet after the first day, when the nearest
constable’s tracker alone was on the job,
and discovered a few tiny footprints
crossing a sand-patch, nothing further
was found. It wasn’t rocky country-
hard clay well sprinkled with tiny iron-
stone grains, but well forested. Months
later the tiny skeleton was found by a
prospector quit© 10 miles in a bee-line
from the home from which he had
wandered. People may have wondered
then how trackers, constables and a
hundred or more civilian searchers could
have failed. Yet those blacks did their
very best: the child’s tracks just couldn’t
be seen.
* * * *
“Bon-Yi”: From stock liberated on
Cressbrook station on the Lower Bris-
bane (Q.) in the ’sixties, the red deer have
taken to the hills both north and south
of Toogoolawah; now they are as far
north as the Gympie district, east almost
to the coast range, south into the Fassi-
fern Valley and heading westwards for
the Bunya Mountains, If they reach that
mountain fastness of scrub-covered
valleys and queer “bald” patches, long
life will be assured them, provided the
local wild scrub-cattle agree. Cattlemen
look on the deer with misgivings, especi-
ally those in bordering areas free from
cattle-tick. No fence will keep the deer
either in or out, and they seem immune
to tick-poison. In dry times lucerne and
fodder-crops are raided with impunity
every night by the herds, which are pro-
tected.
* * * *
“Übet”: Dad was sitting in the door-
way reading the paper. Presently there
was a gasp. “Listen t’ this, Mum,” he
called, and began reading the list of
latest demands by shearers. When he
finished there was a breathless, two-
minute silence. “H-hot-water service!”
gasped Mlum, when she could speak.
“Refrigerator, special reception-rooms.
But, anyway. Dad,” she murmured, “where
could we possibly get carpenters to build
their reception-rooms? And the tele-
phones! Why, the Simpkinses have had
an application in for a phone for ages
and haven’t got it yet. What ever can
we do?” “Don’t ask me. Mum.” The
old bloke shook his head despairingly,
“Well, it ain’t compulsory yet. They’re
demandin’ them things, an’ it’s bein’ con-
sidered. Cripes, I wonder where this
cripplin’ state o’ things is gonna end.”
Mum gasped her way through the formid-
able list once more, and flopped down to
think it out. “P’raps it’ll mean we will
have to go out of sheep,” she whispered.
“Reception-rooms, dining-rooms . . . ”
Another thoughtful silence, then: “Dad,
if we do have to get all that,” she broke
out, “do you think, when I clean out all
their empty beer-bottles and rubbish
after shearing, we’d be allowed to shift
into those grand apartments ourselves,
for the rest of the year?”
* * * *
* “Solitude”: I’d been away for a week.
The last day back was a long one, I’d
missed out on a midday feed, and, as the
“There’s the ’jelly,' blokes. You're set
now!"
miles added up, I thought frequently of
my innards and hoped Seventyfiver had
plenty of tucker on hand. He had finished
his meal when I got in, and was smoking
on the step of the hut. “Have a good
trip?” “Yair.” I found the butt of a
loaf among the debris on the table, a
liberal quantity of stewed something in
the camp-oven, and without waiting to
boil up fresh tea I bogged in. “Every-
thing going all right?” I asked. “ ’Bout
the same,” he answered. “We’re short o
flour, Blue knocked the drench-tin over,
an’ I broke me whip-handle.” Presently
he mooched in and picked up the camp-
oven. “Hey, don’t take that away yet,” I
yelled hungrily. “What’s y’r hurry?” He
put it doWn and retired again to the step.
I yarned between bites, drained the last
drop from the tea billy, and after a spell
in sprawling comfort decided to wash my
plate. As I moved the old bloke came in
and again picked up the camp-oven.
“Finished with this?” “Yes,” I answered
lazily. “Dunno what the hell it was, but
you can put it away if you want to.”
He picked up a knife and started off.
“Aw, it ain’t that I want t’ put it away,”
he explained, pausing in the doorway to
shove Blue out of the way, “but I decided
I better chuck it out. It’s gorn bad.
* ♦ ♦ *
“Mat’s Mate”: We took on a contract
to sink the hole for an underground tank
at so much a foot. After the first day
or two the boss used to come along and
spend an hour or so yarning with us.
Presently we realised that we weren’t
making as much progress as we hoped,
and a little analysis showed that it was
the time lost in yams with the boss.
So Mat said to him, “Look, ain’t you
got anythin’ else t’ do except talk t’ us?
We got t’ make this job pay, y’ know.”
The boss seemed rather embarrassed.
“That’s right,” he said. “But with the
missus away an’ batchin’ on me own I
got nobody t’ talk to.” Mat thought this
over; then he said, “Well, if that’s how
it is I don’t mind how long it takes. I
wouldn’t waitin’ here till y’r missus
comes back.” The boss was astonished.
“Why?” “Well,” Mat said, “it’d be
somethin’ t’ meet a woman who lets
a man do the talkin’.” After that we
saw less of the boss.
* ♦ ♦
“Pat C.”: Westralian Toos are appa-
rently getting tired of seeing the pelts of
their nearest and dearest pegged out by
shooters —they have gone into the attack.
A dog owning a farmer at Northampton
bailed up a boomer and the farmer let
go with a ,303 —and missed. Pardonably
annoyed at the lack of politeness, the
’roo charged, and in the ensuing scramble
the rifle, just cocked again, discharged
and the bullet went through the cocky’s
groin. A few days later, apparently
bucked up at the news of this example
of sturdy independence combined with
sapient strategy, a pet Too at Three
Springs leaped on its owner’s back,
dragged him down and was getting in
some good work with the hind-legs when
a neighbor and a waddy arrived at the
scene of the melee simultaneously.;
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Bluey, who could work,
drink and fight but couldn’t think, and
Dutch, who could do all three and think
as well, hit the Murray town one hot day
with Is. 9d. in cash and plenty of hope.
But that town’s publicans had had battlers,
and presently they retired to the river-
bank and sadly contemplated the water,
worried by the pros-
pect of having to
drink it Dutch re-
fused to acknowledge
defeat. “There must
be something he
said, and they
ambled back to
town. Outside the
newspaper office they
read the copy of
the local kite pasted
on the notice-board,
and Dutch got his
inspiration. A few
minutes later the
publican of the Pioneer was
called to the ’phone. “That
you, Mr. Bung?” “Yes.”
“This is Woolbales. Y’ might
ha’ seen me ad. in the paper
lookin’ for a coupler emu-
bobbers?” Bung hadn’t seen
it, but he said “Yes?” “Well,
there’s a coupler fellers in
town lookin’ for work,” and
he described Bluey and
Dutch. “If they come in will
y’ hang on to ’em an’ ring
me? They’re good men an’
I’d like t’ get hold of ’em.”
“Righto, I’ll do that,” Bung
promised. Sixteen minutes
later Bluey and Dutch drifted
into the bar, dredged up their
nineteen remaining pence and
ordered drinks. “Put y’r
money away,” Bung said
affably. “There’s a job wait-
in’ for you coves. Here, get
these inter y’ while I ring up.”
While he was, doing it they drained
the pints and went quietly away. “Two
pints for twopence is good shooting,”
Bluey said, “and we’ve time to put it over
the Royal and the Commercial before
they wake up.”
* * * *
“Esau”: An immediate ligature on the
upper arm or thigh and then incision,
quick, deep and above all ruthless, are
the only things between the bite of the
funnel-web spider and death. Before
nursing wash the wound with Condy s
solution to remove any venom on the
surface. See that at least half a pint of
blood comes from the wound; rub in
Condy’s, keep patient quiet, send for a
doctor and give warm drinks such as
black coffee or tea. Remember, speed is
the essence of the contract.
* * * *
“Potto”: We don’t sweep our brick
chimney any more—the kookaburras do
it for us. It started two years ago. The
chimney, wide at the top, leads to a
recess above the kitchen stove, and is a
good perch for the birds. On an average
of a couple of times a year, and usually
coinciding with mating or a family
squabble going on up above, a jack loses
his balance and goes headlong down in-
side. They can’t get burned, but in the
frantic attempts to get out by using beaks,
wings and feet, all the soot we want is
brought down. The account was nearly
a debit the other day, though. Warned
by the now-familiar thumping, we opened
the trapdoor. When the usual bewildered
and soot-covered object staggered out
he evaded capture and made a lopsided
take-off across the table, just set for lunch.
I caught him where he fetched up against
the window, tarried him to the door by
the wingtips and let him go. He made
for the nearest treetop, and shortly came
a concerted burst of laughter. Possibly
it was to celebrate the setting of a new
record with half a kerosene-tin of soot.
• * * *
“Golden Mile”: Well, we’ve got
“W.R.O.’s” testimony that his Dad single-
handed beat a couple of two-handed
drillers (B. 5/1/’49), but the fact remains
that Gympie-style boring got nowhere
along the Boulder (W.A.) belt in the early
days. Certainly, in working the soft
oxidised lode stuff that ran down to about
200 ft., Gympie did well enough, but when
the tough sulphide ore was encountered
Gympie faded out. Anyway, the style
was good only for shallow pop-holes at
any time; when holes had to be 4ft.
to 6ft. deep it became impossible for one
man to turn the drill with his left-hand
while he belted with his right. As to the
weight of the hammer being of little im-
portance —well, what about when they
introduced the air-driven rock-drill which
struck a blow with at least 75 effective
air-pounds behind it? Compared with
any style of hand-drilling the rock-drill
penetrsrtes rock with the ease of a knife
through cheese.


SS
'
Does your Will
express your
present wishes?
]\[OW is a good time to review your Will and to ask
yourself whether it expresses your present wishes.
In doing so carefully consider your choice of Execu-
tor. The duties have never been so arduous as now.
An ever increasing number of professional and
business men are appointing Perpetual Trustee Company
Limited as Executor. They recognise that an Executors
duties are highly specialised; they recognise the value
of the experience and protection provided by the
Company.
You are invited to call and discuss your Estate
problems, in confidence, with a senior officer of the
Company.
If you prefer, write for a copy of the Company's
booklet, “Your Executor and Trustee,” that explains the
services rendered by the Company and what they cost.
PERPETUAL
TRUSTEE COMPANY
LIMITED
Trust and Agency Funds
under administration exceed
£ 67,000,000 (The average
Estate being less than
£10,000).
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE
AGENT UNDER POWER OP
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES
& OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR.
ETC.
Directors:
AT rpv n' M.L.C., Chairman; B. R. KNOX*
ALLEN C. LEWIS; Hon. J. P. ABBOTT MHR • D R TV«uptit.
SAMUEL HORDERN; H. V. DOUGLAS S H Managing' dS !
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Manager,
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WAGGA WAGGA, and ORANGE
Public Notice.
THT AUSTRALIAN GAS LIGHT
COMPANY.
Annual General Meeting of
Proprietors.
NOTICE is hereby given that the Annual
General Meeting of the Proprietors of the
Company will be held at the Conference
Room, 7th Floor, Grand United Order
of Oddfellows Building, 149 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, on Thursday, March 3,
1949, at 12 noon.
„ Business;
1. To receive the Report of the Directors
for the past year and authorise the
payment of a dividend for the half
year ended December 31, 1948.
2. To elect two Directors in the place
of Mr. Allen Taylor Anderson and Mr.
George Gordon Gray Russell, who re-
tire and who have given the requisite
notice that they are candidates for re-
election, for which they are eligible.
3. To appoint two Auditors in the place
of Mr. Robert William Nelson, F.C.A.
(Aust.), and Mr. Harrie Hamilton
Stitt, F.C.A. (Aust.), who retire and
who have given the requisite notice
that they are candidates for re-appoint-
ment, for which they are eligible.
4. To transact such other business as may
be properly brought forward.
Candidates for the Directorship are re-
quired to give notice of their candidature,
in Writing, to the undersigned, not later
than Wednesday, February 16, 1949.
The Transfer Book of the Company
will be closed from February 18 to
March 3, 1949, both dates inclusive.
By Order of the Board,
J. B. ROBINSON, Secretary.
Head Office, J
477 Pitt Street, Sydney.
January 20, 1949.
7/1
mm
m
I
STRONGER CORD
Stronger cord in the new De
Luxe means extra strength in
the body. This permits a
heavier tread, ensuring greater
safety and longer wear.
WIDER, FLATTER TREAD
. , . for cleaner starts, safer
stops and longer tread wear.
HEAVIER SHOULDER
. . . makes new De Luxe hus-
kier yet more uniformly re-
silient, which means longer
tyre life.
MORE NON-SKID MILEAGE
Millions of miles 'of road tests
proved these tyres give even
greater mileage than the
famous Goodyear Tyres they
replace.
m
Two treads : all-weather at right, rib above
GOOD#' _
jjTttxe TYRES
ClB-168
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Modern (Mon-Licensed) Hotels, Ltd.
The way shareholders’ money,
subscribed in a good ca\ise, can
go down the drain sometimes is
revealed in the story of Modern
(Non-licensed) Hotels, Ltd.
The Governor Game was the
name chosen 12 years ago for a
new hotel that was to be raised,
high and dry, beside the City
Mutual Life offices in Hunter-
street, Sydney, facing down the
length of Elizabeth-street. A
temperance establishment with
over 400 guest-rooms, it was to
be modelled upon and would
co-operate with similar hotels in
other States, The public re-
sponded rather slowly when in-
vited to contribute £195,000 in
1936, but eventually £138,823
was contributed. About 1400
modest-sized investments made
up the money; subscribers in-
cluded many women and a
perceptible sprinkling of clergy-
men.
The hotel has never been
built, and today these people
can see little of their capital in-
tact. The purchase price of the
Hunter-street land was at most
£55,000, and building work has
never got past the excavation
stage, yet there barely remains
£2500 to the company in net
current assets. A multiplicity of
“preliminary and miscellaneous
expenses” had absorbed £68,939
by June, 1941. Since then not
only have certain spesial
“charges” been met, but a steady
annual drain on funds has re-
sulted from the land being
rented out for £lO a week as a
car-park—scarcely covering half
the company’s commitments for
rates and taxes alone. And now
about a quarter of the site is
being resumed by the County
Council for its Elizabeth-street
extension scheme.
Flotation
According to the 1936 pros-
pectus, the £195,000 sought
from the public was to be sup-
plemented with a £125,000
mortgage—the total figure of
£320,000 being deemed sufficient
to set up the hotel on a working
basis. For the land itself,
£40,000 was to be paid to the
Sydney County Council, and an-
other £15,000 (half cash, half in
scrip) to a syndicate as “part
payment for land, legal ex-
penses, etc.”: this syndicate’s
contracting representative was
George Matthew Foster, who
became the company’s manag-
ing-director.
It was estimated in the pros-
pectus that preliminary expenses,
including brokerage of 5 p.c.,
would total £20,000. Cost of
building was quoted as £200,000,
furnishings £35,000, and-the re-
maining £lO,OOO would provide
working capital.
Annual net profits expected
from the hotel as a running con-
cern were put at £33,613, after
meeting all expenses except
income tax. “In due course,”
the prospectus said, “application
will be made in Sydney for offi-
cial quotation for the shares.”
With G. M. Foster on the
original board were F. E, Barra-
clough (chairman), Ft Grose, E.
T. Bailey and W. A. Waitt. By
June, 1938, the two last-named
had been replaced by E, H.
Long, architect, and A. B.
Gairn, builder. And by then
paid capital was £129,774, of
which £20,711 was represented
by assets of a liquid (but non-
alcoholic) nature. Explaining
their delay in getting on with
the building, directors referred
to the necessity for “redesigning
the whole of the interior” of
the proposed hotel, and also to
the extreme difficulty of arrang-
ing mortgage finance either in
Australia or London.
Such problems were still un-
solved when war put building
temporarily out of the question.
Meanwhile the drain on the
company’s funds continued. In
1945 the directors expressed
hopes for an early post-war com-
mencement; but 12 months later
they announced that materials
remained scarce and costs were
still rising, -and quoted a figure
of £550,000 as necessary to pro-
ceed with the hotel. Sydney
Council had indicated it would
reclaim part of the land, but not
exactly how much, so “the
preparation of detailed plans”
"Will the salesman said the material would last for years
and years."
was impossible. Earlier specifi-
cations and “much of the pre-
liminary work” had been ren-
dered useless, and the prospect
was one of an indefinite series
of annual deficits from the car-
park rental arrangement.
The board’s conclusion and
its advice to shareholders was
that the company should sell the
site and wind up.
Change of Directors
Shareholders rejected this
recommendation at the 1946
general faceting and appointed
their own committee to confer
with the board and report back
to a laier meeting. After con-
siderable scuffling and shuffling
by the old board, which wanted
liquidation and didn’t want to
hear the committee, an extra-
ordinary general meeting took
place on April 21, 1947, but the
shareholders’ committee had is-
sued a circular in the meantime
which enabled it to bring along
80,000 proxies and so defeat the
motion to liquidate. Share-
holders present then voted for
another meeting to consider re-
moving the directors. When this
was held none of the old board
put in an appearance ; they had
all resigned two hours earlier.
A new board was then elected,
and says it “immediately met
with an unexpected delay and
difficulty” in obtaining posses-
sion of the company’s records
and accounts.
One item which the new
board says it found in the direc-
tors’ minute-book was a resolu-
tion dated November 8, 1946 —
“that in view of certain commit-
ments of Mr. Foster’s, £lOOO be
advanced to him, to be charged
to his salary or compensation,
as may be decided.”
Another entry in the minute-
book on February 5, 1947, is
said to embody this decision;—-
That, in view of the resolution
passed at the general meeting in favor
of taking steps towards winding up
the company, Mr. Foster’s contract
be terminated with his consent, upon
payment of four years’ salary less
adjustment for any advances.
Both resolutions were put
into effect, the new board says,
Mr. Foster —still on the receiv-
ing end-being paid £lOOO on
November 11, 1946, and £2OOO
on February 7, 1947. “To pay
these amounts the board sold
most of the company’s remain-
ing Commonwealth bond s.”
Pointing out that these sums
were additional to a “compensa-
tion payment” of £2571 pre-
viously made to Mr. Foster, the
new directorate said; “We state
these facts for the information
of shareholders and without
casting any reflection upon the
propriety of the transactions.”
However, Mr. Foster appears to
have done a great deal better
than shareholders, to say the
least.
Losses and Prospects
The new board—comprising
C. C. Alexander (chairman),
Rev. Wallace Deane, Grafton
Lewis and W. Bushell —drew up
as accurately as it could a classi-
fied list of the expenses which
have practically exhausted the
company’s capital of £138,823.
Following are the figures up to
June 30 last, which offer interest-
ing comparisons with the 1936
prospectus: '
Payment for land— £ £
To Sydney County Council 40,000
To syndicate members ~ 15,000
55,000
Expenses to June 30, 1941
Commission on shares .. 17,497
“Compensation” to G. M.
Foster 2,571
To E. H. Long and A. B.
Gairn- (directors), “in
accordance with building
contract, Jan., 1938”.. 7,089
To other architects .. .. 8,900
Surveyor 2,GCO
Excavation costs .. .. 5,212
Travelling expenses .. 3,451
Salaries 5493
Wages 2,031
Advertising 2,082
Rates and taxes .. .. 4,840
Electricity, water, etc. .. 1,514
Miscellaneous 5,893
.gg ggg
Net loss from 1941 to 1946 ~ 5*434
Net loss for year ending June 30,
1947 (including £3OOO to G.
M. Foster) 5,695
Net loss for year ending June 80,
*948 1,379
£136,447
At least two urgent problems
faced the new board. The first
was to claim compensation for
the resumed part of their pro-
perty. Claims for “substantial
amounts” were submitted to the
Council over a year ago, but to
date there has been no settle-
ment.
Then application was made to
have the rental of the building
site raised from £lO to £35 a
week, but after long proceedings
it has only recently been in-
creased to £1.5. Alternatively,
the board has sought to have
the present tenants evicted so
that the company itself might
conduct the parking-station busi-
ness for the time being. It has
not succeeded, though neither of
these issues is regarded as finally
settled.
Regulations still prohibit
building, and in any case the


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED,
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns,
W. J. HITCHCOCK. Manager.
df
TRAVELLERS’
CHEQUES
■t s
W'HEN you go away,
whether on family holi-
days, a business trip, or a
world tour, you will need
funds for your daily require-
ments.
It is risky to carry these funds
in cash. The modern, safe
means of payment for travellers
is Bank of New South Wales
Travellers’ Cheques.
You will find that these
cheques are readily cashed by
all banks and accepted by
principal tourist bureaux,
transport offices, hotels, res-
taurants and stores.
Bank of New South Wales
Travellers’ Cheques can be
bought at any branch of the
"Wales”,
Consult and use
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
\
Incorporated in New South Wales with limited liability
There's a BANGOR Track
for every type of Sliding Door!
M
pi m i
*
dm
m
mm.
L
□
I
f
Heavy or Light Sliding Door,
Accordion, Parlour or Round-
the Corner Type, there’s a type
of ‘Bangor’ Track to suit every
job.
Years of research and ex-
perience by Wormald Brothers’
engineers have perfected ‘Ban-
gor’ in all its types and ap-
plications. That is why archi-
tects builders and the trade
accept it as the best sliding
door track made today.
Quality control of all
materials used in ‘Bangor’
tracks ensure strength, rigidity
and a lifetime of service.
Consult your local hardware
dealer on the correct type of
‘Bangor’ Track for your particu-
lar need. ~
BANGOR
SLIDING DOOR FITTINGS
.Obtainable from leading hardware stores throughout Australia
A Product of WORMALD BROTHERS pty. ltd.
SYDNEY, NEWCASTLE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, HOBART,
WELLINGTON, AUCKLAND, CHRISTCHURCH, DUNEDIN.
board considers present costs to
bp prohibitive, assuming that it
had the necessary financial back-
ing. On the other hand, the
idea of a non-licensed hostel-
never purely a commercial idea
for many of the shareholders —
has not been abandoned.
Tied to * ‘Labor’s” Kite
Mr. Chifley is urging saving
by the people, but is.showing no
sign of curbing his enormous
Government spending and taxa-
tion levies. Tax collections from
the people, in the aggregate, are
the highest on record, in war or
in peace.
He confesses that he is afraid
of inflation, and calls for more
production. But his high rates
of taxation discourage produc-
tion, and his expansion of the
Commonwealth public service to
more than three times its
normal size has taken an army
of people from productive work.
The “Labor” Government’s
full-employment scheme em-
phasises employment without
considering production. It is
responsible for underproduction,
for inflation and for the de-
terioration of productive morale.
The Chifley Government
favored the introductioh of the
40-hour week. This reduced
per capita production and raised
prices. It has had a most infla-
tionary influence on our
economy, the influence progres-
sing at a compounding rate.
“Labor” has been fairy-
godmother to the militant trade-
unions, now riddled by Com-
munists. When the first Com.-
inspired strikes of the post-war
period burst on Australia, Mr.
Chifley, rather than take disci-
plinary action, protested that he
was “not going to crucify the
workers.” Since then the Com.
unions have proceeded to prucify
the community and embarrass the
socialistic plans of Mr. Chifley.
The pampered and/or Com.-
dominated unions have slowed
down the production and trans-
port services of the whole of
Australia. The Chifley Govern-
ment has taken no constructive
action to remedy this. But Can-
berra industrial and financial
policy has made it easier for
militant unionism to hamper
and destroy productivity. The
employer has been robbed of
initiative in dealing with strikes
or in building up his financial
strength to enlarge his produc-
tive capacity.
Ever since Federal “Labor”
took office in 1941 it has resorted
to inflationary methods, of
finance. Its Government loans
have never been well supported
by the people, and it has made
extravagant use of bank credit.
The Bulletin for years has
stressed the inflationary features
of “Labor’s” financial policy.
“Labor” has encouraged both
primary and secondary financial
inflation, and Com. unions have
done their worst on the indus-
trial front.
Mildly surprised by what in-
flation is doing now, Mr. Chifley
asks the people to “save.”
But inflation expressed in
the increasing cost of living—
daily robs the depositor and the
bondholder of more and more
of the value of his savings and
investments. And any income
he receives from savings or in-
vestments is taxed with parti-
cular savagery. Interest rates,
too, have been forced down to
artificial and unattractive levels.
The incomes of those people
who conduct productive busi-
nesses and receive a return in
keeping with a large investment
(established by previous thrift)
have received very little tax-
relief since the end of the war.
The “big” tax concessions—
such as they are —have been
made to wage-carnets, who
spend rather than save or invest.
Thus is inflation promoted and
saving obstructed.
The man who organises pro-
duction, which is the only real
answer to inflation, is discour-
aged by “Labor” economic
policy reduced to the most de-
based and reckless programme
of vote-buying. The startling in-
flation —rise in living costs —
of the past 12 months has
provoked further State-“ Labor”
assaults on profit-margins in in-
dustry, though the inflated
paper-money national income is
already going to wage-earners in
larger proportions than it ever
did, with businessmen and in-
vestors getting a correspondingly
smaller share.
Mr. Chifley and his Socialist
gang, his nincompoops, his Com.
trade-union associates, his jacks-
in-office, Caucus “advisers”
and hangers-on, have done
their collective best to bring
Australia to an inflationary
ruin. Now that they are
in sight of doing just that
Mr. Chifley feels compelled to
croak a few words of warning
and exhortation to “save.” But
even in his croakings this
“imperturbable” Socialist seems
not the least whit shaken,
ashamed or repentant.
Bradford Cotton Rights
An unusual opportunity exists
for buying into a first-class
textile stock at the lowest price
for six years.
A new issue of 564,871 £1
ords. in Bradford Cotton Mills
is being offered by the co. to
ord. shareholders in the ratio of
one for two at a premium of
13s. each, and rights to these
new shares are being bought on
the market at Bs., making total
cost of the shares, when fully
paid (before September, 1949),
41s. each. The old ords. went
as high as 565. last year. Pro-
spective yield on the new shares
is £4 17s, 6d. per cent.
Bradford Cotton is a first-
class stock, with a long record
of steady 10 p.c. divs. It will
have a paid eapital of £1,845,000
when all the new money is in,
£1,675,000 of it in ords. Share
premiums will carry disclosed
reserves up to £720,000, and
there is a depreciation reserve
of £670,893 as well. Though
much of the co.’s expansion has
occurred since the war, a great
deal of its plant and equipment
was bought at extremely low
prices before 1940. It has be-
come the most progressive textile
enterprise in Australia —a review
of its affairs appeared in B.
26/1/’49.
Raw-cotton supplies come
from hard-currency areas, but
they have a high priority, and
the co.’s products are cheap by
present world standards. Its
activities have not been re-
stricted at any time by scarcity
of raw materials, and it has
coped reasonably well with man-
power scarcity. There is still a
large cotton-goods market ahead
of Australian manufacturers pro-
vided prices are right.
The offering of Bradford
Cotton rights so cheaply appears
to be one of those circumstances
where existing investors in stocks
like Bradford Cotton find that
they are unable to lay hands on
the ready money necessary to
add to their holdings, having
been harder hit by taxation and
the “redistribution of the
national income” than have
wage-earners.
Shrinking Investment
Tightness in money-channels
is beginning to press uncomfort-
ably on the thrifty and investors
in New Zealand, where wages,
costs and prices are still mount-
ing, at the expense of all who
live on savings or fixed incomes.
Maoriland’s Tax Department
loads the dice against so-called
“unearned” income by adding
33i p.c, extra to taxes, and
this is killing the goose that has
laid the eggs for M.L. business
and industry. For many Maori-
landers the dis'crimination gets
under the skin; for M.L, as a
whole it looks suicidal, and is
playing the devil with incentives.
It sacrifices enterprise to the.
State, which is M.L.’s big finan-
cial road-hog today, for funds
that business, industry and in-
dividuals should be using are ex-
torted to support overgrown
State departments, to the tune
of nearly £3 million a week,
from a population not much
bigger than Sydney’s.
Finance leaders have raised
voices of proteist against this
diversion from the real business
of production, but prodigality
and extravagance at the top still
go on. Perhaps the shrinking in-
vestment flow is the red light
that the Government will ignore
at its peril.
These are dark days for gold
enterprises in Maoriland. Last
month one of the leading dredg-
ing concerns on the west coast
of the South Island, Associated
Gold Dredges (N.Z.), Ltd.,
Christchurch, with £295,500
capital, decided to abandon the
struggle against high costs and
low price (£8 12s. ounce) for
gold, go into voluntary liquida-
tion and quit assets, includ-
ing three dredges. The co.
operated for seven years. Two
years ago, when all three
dredges were last digging, it had
a yield of 8267 ounces (year to
March, 1947). In last year’s
balance - sheet assets were:
Dredges £168,784, mining
properties £64,053, dredge spares
£26,449. Before N.Z.’s ex-
change-cut knocked 20 p.c. off
the price of gold the co. was al-
ready sliding downhill, and was
in no condition to meet that
blow. Mistakes included over-
estimating workable area and
probable yield.


Oixibt
FIRST IN 1888...
FIRST TO-DAY!
NO OTHER BATTERY
CAN MATCH EXIDE'S
61 YEARS' EXPERIENCE
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD , 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
U'SS
I
XA 10.28
PERSOHAL ITEMS
Graduation last month of John, son
of Shortland, J., from Sydney Uni. puts
him in line with the rest of his family —
all now have graduated from the same
university. His father, a N.S.W. district-
court Judge, holds an M ( A. degree, his
mother and both sisters are B.As.
John was with the R.A.A.F. for most of
the last scrap, and now can call himself
LL.B,
A recent Navy appointment takes Com-
mander Harley Wright, D.S.C., R.A.N.,
from Director of Plans and Operations at
Navy Office to War Book Officer. One
of the remembered naval actions of the
war was the stoush at Leyte between
cruiser Australia and the Jap “zombie”
which sprayed its burning petrol over the
flagship’s bridge, killing Captain De-
chaineux, badly wounding Rear-Admiral
(then Commodore) John Collins and kill-
ing 30 men and wounding 61. Wright
was the man who, as second-in-command,
stepped into the breach, doused her fires
and kept the big ship in action. He was
in his element in the air attacks, being
in his spare time one of the Navy’s best
clay-pigeon shots. His Leyte effort
brought him his extra initials. Com-
mander Alan McNicoil, a son of Brig.-
General McNicoil, one-time New Guinea
Administrator, succeeds him in the plan-
ning directorate.
Gavin Long, in charge of War ll’s
history, expects to finish the job by 1954.
If he does, he will have cut by more than
half C. E. W. Bean’s time —remembering,
of course, that Bean wrote the greater
part of his history himself, whereas Long
has 12 assistants. Both editors were war
correspondents in their respective
stoushes, both hail from Bathurst, N.S.W.,
and both were schooled at old All Saints’
College there. Their histories will form
an almost unbroken work, as Bean
finished his during Hitler’s war and Long
began his in 1943.
That sun-helmet seen in George-street
last week was carried aloft by “Standby”
Porteous, a long bird of the sea who,
allowed out of his Brisbane plastic-sur-
geon’s hands for five days, immediately
took off for Sydney. Here he found his
book. Sailing Orders, which took second
prize in Sydney “Herald’s” war-novel
competition, in its birth-pangs with
Dymock’s. Since his first short story was
printed in America, Porteous has sold
another four. His agent in New York
passed him on a rejection-slip he had
from a national-magazine editor. “Sorry
I can’t use. this story. But Porteous is one
of the best sea-writers of the day. Keep
him coming.” Porteous concedes it’s
the nicest knockback he’s ever had.
After years with the Merchant Navy,
in which he came to know Jap-held
New Guinea harbors as well as his own
Mackay, Porteous says he has come
ashore —and in the same breath mentions
a trip to Thursday Island in the offing.
The present job of this blue-water dit-
spinner is with the Mackay Main Roads
Commission-testing, of all things, soil!
Maoriland legal men were recognised
in the New Year Honors by knighthoods
to Robert Kennedy, J., and Arthur Don-
nelly, barrister. Kennedy, hailing from
Southland, was admitted to the Bar in
1909 and reached the Supreme Court
bench 20 years later. Donnelly prac-
tised in Christchurch, interrupted his work
to deal with the Kaiser, and came back
to the Flat City as legal adviser to several
industrial and financial concerns. In 1937
he was chairman of the Economic Con-
ference and of the first Stabilisation Com-
mission.
Eighty-three will succeed 85 in the
chairmanship of Moonee Valley Race
Club when J. F. Feehan steps into the
place of rosarian Alister Clark, recently
passed on. When the club was formed by
his former colleague in 1917 Feehan was
made vice-president and held the post for
32 years. He was Dalgety’s chief
auctioneer for two years longer than that.
His father, who came from Ireland 100
years ago, owned the freehold of Moonee
Valley and grazed his sheep there.
Another Australian to make good in
Europe is Harold Beck, who was deputy
conductor and ’cellist with the Melbourne
Symphony Orchestra until he went to
England last year. He has just been
appointed principal ’cellist to the
Halle Orchestra. He paints in his spare
time, and is a brother of Haydn Beck,
formerly violin professor at Sydney CoA-
servatorium.
There is a story behind the Christinas card
sent from Australia by Admiral Sir Charles
Morgan (who called here on his mission of
maintaining war-time goodwill between the
Navy and Merchant Navy) to Lieutenant de la
Penne of the Italian Navy. Morgan was
commanding battleship Valiant in Alexandria
on Dec. 19, 1941, when the crew of a “human
torpedo” was captured after it surfaced near
his ship. They wouldn’t talk, even though
kept aboard Valiant, where they could expect
to share any results of their underwater
activity. All hands were ordered on deck,
and the harbor waited. Soon afterwards the
battler lifted bodily in the water, and when
she fell back her bilges were open to the
sea. Queen Elizabeth was similarly maimed.
Years later, when Italy surrendered and
Morgan was virtually in charge of the Italian
Fleet, he was present at an investiture by the
Italian Crown Prince. A young lieutenant
stepped forward to receive the rare Gold Medal
for Valor. The Prince nodded to Morgan.
“This is your job, I think, Sir Charles.” And
Morgan pinned the gong on the spunky
underwater-man who’d blown his ship put of
commission years earlier. The two sailors
have exchanged Christmas cards ever since.
Arrived in Melbourne in the Mooltan,
Warrant-Officer W, T. Morse, the “one-
man army.” On January 3, 1941, Morse,
then platoon-sergeant, with Captain B.
Griffiths captured a machine-gun post,
five tanks and the Italian headquarters at
Bardia. A born collector, he went on to
bring in 2000 prisoners. The King pinned
his D.C.M. at Buckingham Palace. Now
he has come home from the Australian
Army staff in London to be demobbed.
The caption reminding Societeers that
“It’s Printed with Wimble’s Inks” could
state just as accurately that “Where
there’s a printing plant you’ll find a tin of
Wimble’s.” The firm started in 1867 by
F. T. Wimble, now steered by son George,
victimised here by Prior, supplies the
ink for most of Australia’s big journals,
plus a few in Maoriland. In the com-
pany’s Sydney board-room is encased the
first page of the first Australian news-
paper made from a local mill’s newsprint.
Yes, it’s printed with Wimble’s inks. In
addition to this distinction, the paper—
Melbourne’s “Evening Star,” dated 1868
—offers male colonials a Prince Alfred
made-to-order lounge-suit for £1 19s. The
Bulletin’s presses first made contact
with the Wimble product in the first issue,
and have tasted no other brand since.
When power-rationing closed the inkery,
a mill set up in The Bulletin machine-
IMPRESSIONIST.
room ground ink with its auxiliary
power-plant. The Bulletin - Wimble
relationship is a world record, with
London “Punch” and its ink-supplier
running a close second. George Wimble,
an analytic chemist, joined the firm as
an office-boy in 1907. He was an
observer with the A.F.C., No. 3 Squadron,
in France, by which Richthofen had the
honor to be buried after he crashed
near by.
In the spotlight himself after half a;
century behind-the-scenes management,
George Matheson, Queensland rep. of
J.C.W.’s and manager of the Firm’s His
Majesty’s in Brisbane. Claiming to be
the oldest living employee in the com-
pany —he owns to 68 years—and to have
managed most of J.C.W.’s theatres, he
was born in Dunedin (M.L.), and has
been looking after the Brisbane interests
for the last 27 years, during which he’s
IMPRESARIO.
hobnobbed with most stage and concert
celebrities, from Melba to the Oliviers.
Going back into last century, he remem-
bers the dissolving of the Williamson-
Garner - Musgrove combination and
J.C.W.’s opening on his own in the
Alexandra (later His Majesty’s) in Mel-
bourne in 1886, with Nance O’Neil and
McKee Rankin in “Macbeth.” William-
son bought also the building adjoining,
in an attempt to make the area respect-
able, a move dictated by the unsavory
fan-tan, pak-a-pu and other joints which
infested the locality at the time. Mathe-
son recalls the first movie shown in Aus-
tralia, a series of crude shorts in J.C.W.’s
1900 production of “Matsa” in Mel-
bourne. Later, for the Firm, he toured
the country with a full-length film, “With
Roberts to Pretoria,” which he thinks was
the first genuine “flick” of the Boer War.
A dapper little man, as nimble as a flea
and invariably attached to a cigar, Mathe-
son seems good yet for many, a string of
reminiscence.
The latest award of the Natural
History Medallion was collected by L.
Glauert, Director of the Perth Museum.
Awarded yearly by natural - history
clubs, the medallion is for meritorious
services in the preservation and spread
of knowledge of Australian flora and
fauna. Previous winners are A. H.
Chisholm, the birdman, Frederick Chap-
man, noted scientist, David Fleay, B.Sc ,
of platypus fame, Major W. H. Wilson,
T. M. Black, whose The Flora of South
Australia is an official textbook of the
Adelaide University, Charles P. Mount-
ford, leader of the Arahem Land expe-
dition, Heber A. Longman, for many
years director of Queensland’s Museum
and 'president of the Royal Society of
Queensland, and Crosbie Morrison,
M.Sc., editor of “Wild Life.”
Victoria’s first Rhodes scholar, John
Behan, who got a knighthood in the New
Year honors, was warden of Trinity
College, University of Melbourne, for 29
years, long enough to become an institu-
tion. He was John Masefield’s host when
the Poet Laureate was in Melbourne for
the Centenary celebrations. Except for
a period of service with the Ministry of
Munitions in London during the first war.
Behan has lived in academic cloisters, Ox-
ford and Melbourne. Author of one
publication, with the formidable title
of The Use of Land as Affected by
Covenants and Obligations not in the
Form of Covenants, he’s been, since 1922,
general secretary of the Rhodes Scholar-
ship Trust in Australia.
Recently-elected Chamber of Com-
merce president at Coff’s Harbor
(N.S.W.), accountant Austin Donnelly
was articled to A. W. Fadden in 1937.
Now his office is papered with four
accountancy certificates, and he claims to
be the only chartered and cost accountant
practising in rural N.S.W. He plaited his
nart of Tojo’s noose by navigating a
R.A.A.F. Beaufighter.
Falling out from the Australian Regular
Army after 38y years’ service, Lt.-Col.
E. W. Latchford began as a sarge-major
in ,1910, in time to help organise and train
the initial Universal trainees in suburban
streets by night and in any handy vacant
allotment by day, drill-halls then being
mainly confined to pages of training
manuals. The Kaiser’s war found him
with the 38th Battalion in France. He
won the M.C. at Passchendaele, was
selected to join the “Dunsterforce,” and
finished his free tour as a member of the
British Military Mission with Admiral
Kolchak’s forces in Siberia in 1919. Back
home the next year with a captaincy, he
found he had to start again in his original
rank, no provision having been made for
recognition of his war-time service as an
officer. Posted to instruct in the Randwick
school of musketry, he reached command
in 1940 and retained it until mid-1948.
His experiences in handling nationalities,
from the wily Assyrian to the stolid
Siberian moujik, plus specialised small-
arms British Army training during 1925,
made handling of the Australian types
easy. And a sound appreciation of psy-
chology, combined with a certain
Rabelaisian flavor in his instructional
corrections, shafted his points home in a
way his pupils never forgot.
Giles Tatlock Chippindall, who suc-
ceeds L. B. Fanning (gone to the Broad-
casting Control Board) as Director-
General of Posts and Telegraphs, was
born in 1893 in Melbourne. He joined
the P.M.G.’s department as a messenger
in 1908, worked up through the various
strata to Inspector of Personnel, and then
went to important war jobs, among them
Director-General of War Organisation of
Industry, Chief Executive Officer of
Production Executive of Cabinet and
Secretary of Supply and Shipping. After
the war he was Chairman of Disposals.
Alister Clark, who died two days be-
fore his 85th birthday, in the beautiful
old house he was born in at Bulla (Vic.),
made a garden on the steep sides of a
gully which became world-famous. Out
of it came hundreds of new varieties of
roses, and flourishing there are still many
unknown to the outside horticulturist.
Those he judged the best he presented to
the National Rose Society for distribu-
tion, though nurserymen sometimes got
cuttings in return for a fee of perhaps
100 guineas which went to the society to
promote interest in horticulture. Sunny
South, Lorraine Lee, Black Boy, Countess
of Stradbroke and many others now
abloom in thousands of suburban gardens
here and abroad came originally from
Glenara. In 1936 he won the Dean Hole
Medal of the Rose Society of England
against the world’s growers. In later
years he turned to daffodils and made
them as celebrated as his roses. Another
side of his activities was horses. He
raced many jumpers, and for 40 years
was chairman and guiding star of
the Moonee Valley Race Club. The
Alister Clark Stakes is one of Moonee
Valley’s important races; the winner
gets a silver rose-bowl, while trainer,
owner and jockey get the unusual gift
of a bunch of roses. Clark forbade any
flowers at his funeral —he disliked seeing
them ill-treated.
Into the silence:
At Sydney, suddenly, at 54, Brother Wilfrid
Mathieson, of St. Joseph’s College, Hunter’s
Hill. In a lovely gully near Kurrajong, which
he called his sanctuary, and to which he retired
for relaxation, he died among the ferns and
plants he loved.
In Brisbane, Captain Albert Cannon, ancient
mariner. Versatile like all his breed, he was in
turn harbor-master, pilot and port-inspector of
such diverse functions as shipwright-work and
beche-de-mer and pearlshell hshing.
In Sydney, W. J. Carlton, Labor member for
Concord since 1941. He won the Glebe seat
in 1935, when it was made vacant by the death
of Tom Keegan. Carlton was a machine-
gunner in War I.
At 58, in Melbourne, Brigadier William Allan
Hailes, C.8.E., one of Australia’s most brilliant
surgeons and Censor-in-Chief to the Royal Aus-
tralasian College of Surgeons. He enlisted in
the First A.I.F. at 24, won the D.S.O. and two
m.-i.-ds., was Senior Surgeon to the Second
A.1.F., and served in the M.E. and then as
Director of Army Surgery at H.Q.
In London, Captain John Browning, former
commodore of the P. and O. line, who skippered
many a ship to Australia in the pre-war years.
He was first seasick in 1894 in the barque
Harold, which was on the wool run to Aus-
tralia toward the end of the last century.


Women’s Letters
From Sydney
First-nighters left their seats sorrowing
at the final curtain of “Andrea Chenier' 1
last Saturday. Perfect strangers said good-
night to one another, smiling in friendly
fashion. The season has brought out many
beautiful frocks and pretty women, but
the belles of the opera by common
atclaim are Mrs. Florence Taylor and
Mrs. Bertie Kelly. Black chiffons made
with a deep black lace yoke was Mrs.
Taylor’s choice for last Saturday, Mrs.
Kelly wore sweeping black velvets made
off-the-shoulder in the pictorial Victorian
style, and with a narrow berthe effect of
ivory satin embossed in pearl and
gold flower-sprays. Then there was
the slim lady with the green plumey
fan this Letter has never known, and the
Robert Patersons —the bodice of her frock
of anemone-pink crepes exquisitely em-
broidered in tiny gold beads. The jacket
worn with this had a small embroidered
yoke. The Harry Moxhams were there,
and Margaret Salenger, in ice-blue
chiffons, finely-pleated and facing the new
thrill of a trip to England in March.
Matron Goodwin and Mrs. Walter
Burfitt with her attractive daughter Dr.
Barbara McNamara enjoyed this final
tragedy. The Ben Fullers were in
their usual seats; so were Annis
Parsons, Strella Wilson, Gwladys Evans.
The Frederick Blakeys, of Sanglop-
Perak, must have thought, as they
gazed on this drama of the Paris
commune, that life was just one barricade
after another. They leave Sydney next
Thursday, and after some time in Perth
sail for Malaya. Mrs. Blakey’s coat was
a gold lame affair that might have hap-
pened in “Turandot.” Right accompani-
ment was the spray of orchids.
Mr. Chifley practically gave his bless-
ing to the displays of imported British
autumn and winter topcoats and suits.
For, as one woman put it, “how can you
save more sensibly than in buying good
clothes?” So with a clear conscience the
woman with the purse went off to look at
styles. Prices seemed staggering to the
woman who earns her own living, but she
whose husband hunts intrepidly amongst
the bulls and the bears did not blench at
the 35-, the 55- and even the 75-guinea
article. And these English suits and
frocks are worth the price. Skirts for
day and evening are no longer bunchy.
Slfort jackets accompanying frocks have
a swing to them, or often are fitting at
the waist then flare slightly into long
peplum effect. Braiding occurs even on
the classic suit, and passementrie cun-
ningly applied shows us why Grand-
mother loved it so much. Very popular
in one fashion display was a long, flared
frock of beige jersey. The bodice of this
was snugly buttoned down the front with
small brown buttons, and it had a long-
sleeved, waist-length jacket of chocolate-
brown. A cosy number if you bear in
mind the possibility of fuel-rationing
when winter comes.
A girl could face her world with a smile
at the cocktail hour in the fine black bal-
lerina frock, the skirt dolled up with bands
of black silk braid. A large black taffeta
bow finished off the waistline at the back.
Of evening frocks three are etched in
the memory. The first was of pale-lilac
lame sifted over with the frost of a silver
pattern. This had a high neckline and
elbow-sleeves. The skirt had that draped
look that comes from gathers, and from
the waist at the back the silver and lilac
fell into a long fishtail drape. A frock
of crepe golden sand in toning had its
waist deeply outlined in bronze, red and
yellow sequins. The skirt was gathered
and had a draped look. The tiny cap
sleeves were of graceful fullness.
Lastly there was the white frock that
would have been right for EUza Doolittle
when she emerged as Galatea. It was
of heavy white crepe, very long, was
gathered in front, and suggested a classic
Greek drape over the hips. It had a
halter neckline, and practically no back.
The deep band let in above the waist was
scrolled in gold. Definitely a frock for
the statuesque. Will somebody five-foot-
two and about eight-and-a-half stone buy
it and have it “altered to fit her”?
There’s a nice quality in a talk by Stuart
Gurr. You feel that here is one who has
weighed up life as carefully as an al-
chemist of old, might have weighed the
ingredients for the elixir. The difference,
however, is that Mr. Gufr seems to have
found the gold. He spoke at the Aus-
tralian Book Society’s lunch last week on
the problems of a publisher’s reader.
But to one listener it boiled down to more
or less a recipe for serenity, believing in
yourself and your work no matter how
many publishers and editors turn it down.
It was very cheering. Ella McFadyen,
who writes children’s serials for the radio
when she is not writing poetry, gave
thanks in sparkling style. Stanley Bart-
lett, of Harrap’s, was the chairman.
The Girl in the Flat Opposite was
walking through her favorite book-shop
the other day. One of the salesmen was
giving, over the telephone, a list of the
latest books: “No Armour," he called into
the mouthpiece. “There, what did I tell
you?” almost hissed a customer to her
companion. “No Amah! The domestic
problem is just as acute in the East as
it is here in Sydney!”
Lilian Gillespie, lately appointed execu-
tive director of the Y.W.C.A., is an M.A.
of Cambridge, graduating with honors in
Science and Literature. But Miss Gilles-
pie has been a sufficient number of years
in Australia, according to our new citi-
zenship bill, to be classed “Australian.”
Before coming to this country Miss Gilles-
pie did a great deal of social-service work
in London. During the war years she
was active in women’s war work in West
Australia, where her name was closely
linked with the W.A.N.S. Before taking
up her present duties Miss Gillespie was
education director of the Y.W.C.A.
The unbelievable Kiwis are here. Last
Wednesday night they introduced them-
selves and, believe it or not, the Empire
Theatre to many of their audience.
Several women admitted they had not
been inside this really attractive theatre
before. True the Empire has been
till lately a movie theatre, but the
busy woman takes in most of her
movies either in her shopping area
or in the local. By half-past seven
it was a squeeze getting into the Foyer,
and on the stroke of eight, when “The
Boys” lined up to start the show, there
wasn’t an empty seat in the house.
The Governor, Lt.-General Northcott,
was there with daughter Elizabeth, who
wore a long white frock, the
skirt finely pleated, and a scarf of
white lace. They were received by J. C.
Williamson’s Harald Bowden and Eric
Wahlquist and members of the
Empire staff. Tessie O’Shea, headliner in
the previous Empire bill, was there, also
Miss Nancy Jobson. Jocelyn Gaden con-
trasted sun-browned shoulders and apple-
green taffetas. With her was Mrs. Eileen
Robinson in flowered chiffons. One of
the night’s well-dressed was Mrs. Phillip
Keen. But nobody in the audience was
more glamorous than John Hunter as the
girl in the balcony scene from “Private
Lives.” A gag of the night: “They
called out ‘Fire at will!’ But I didn’t
know which was Will!”
Rumors had been flying around Mel-
bourne for some time that Cupid was
caching up with High Court Justice
“Eddy” McTiernan. Sydney friends will
be interested to hear that he was
welded in wedlock at St. Roch’s R.C.
Church, Glen Iris, lately. Bride’s name
was Kathleen Lloyd. The two have
known each other for over 12 years ; they
have been honeymooning in Bowral and
Sydney.
There are 189 paintings in watercolor
and oils being shown at David
Gallery in the Elizabeth-street store.
These are works by our most talented
artists, and they will not be sold in the
ordinary way, but balloted for. For
£5 ss. you can have a chance in
the ballot, and as your name comes
up so is the order of your choice
of the paintings. There are no
blanks, and the drawing will be held on
Friday of this week. pictures were
all donated by artists and collectors, for
the cause benefiting is the Red
Cross. Lionel Shave organised the
show, and actress Evie Hayes declared
it open. Evie’s navy-and-aqua-blue-
spotted silk had a dash of the ’nineties in
the bustle-bow. Chairman of the Red
Cross Appeals Committee, Acting-Judge
Adrian Curlewis, made speech of thanks
to Miss Hayes.
From Melbourne
At the State Government’s reception at
the Town Hall to farewell the Governor
and his wife, Lady Dugan wore silver
lame, with brilliant blue taffeta fold-
ing over the low hipline and forming a
bustle. Over her shoulders were swathes
of misty-blue tulle. Hostess for the even-
ing, Mrs. Hollway, mixed deep-brown
tulle and pink taffeta. Representatives
of church, State, the services and the
judiciary were among the 2000 guests.
The Lady Mayoress, Mrs. J, S. Disney,
added to a tiered skirt and embroidered
bolero of heavy white crepe a rose-pink
silver-embroidered blouse. Mrs. Rupert
Downes’s chiffons were in dove-grey, a
shade favored also by Mrs. T. J. Ryan,
Mrs. W. L. Russell Clarke and Mrs. J. A.
Collins. Mrs. Geoff Cohen wore a stole
to match her white satin gown, which had
blue embroidery on the low-cut bodice.
Mrs. Norman Carlyon’s strapless gown
was of white taffeta. Black velvet, the
skirt full and the bodice having narrow
shoulder-straps, was worn by Mrs. John
Kaufman. Pastel-pink Chantilly lace
formed the gown worn by Mrs. Harold
Holt. The bodice of Mrs. A. A. Lord’s
gown of pastel-blue lace had rhinestone
shoulder-straps; the skirt was patterned
with silver beads. Mrs, Trevor Oldham
highlighted her black tulle gown with a
shoulder treatment of ribbon boWs to
which were pinned pastel flowers. With
her black velvet gown Mrs. Sam Wells
wore gardenias. Over her black moire
gown Mrs. Hamilton Sleigh wore a
flared hip-length brilliant-green moire
jacket embroidered with flowers, birds
and foliage in jet outlined with crystal
beads. Mrs. Arthur Drakeford’s gown
of white satin was patterned in florals.
The wedding at Newman College
Chapel of Elizabeth Ellen (Betty), only
daughter of the late Mr. and Mrs. J. S.
Conroy, of St. Kilda, and Dr. William
Michael Calanchini, only son of Mrs.
E. M. Calanchini, of Ascot Vale, and the
late Mr. Calanchini, was celebrated with
Nuptial Mass. The bride, caught smiling
here by Broothorn’s camera, wore a silver-
and-white brocade gown made with a
tiered skirt extending to a train, the
long-sleeved bodice having a deep square
neckline. The flowing tulle veil was
caught with a wreath of orange-blossom,
and she carried a sheaf of white roses.
Pale-blue chiffon frocks, with long
sleeves and full, flowing skirts and wide,
off-the-face hats of the same material
were worn by the bride’s attendants, Mar-
garet Crosbie, Betty Daly and Mrs. J.
Smiley. Dr. George Morrison was best
man and John Crosbie and Joffre Smiley
groomsmen.
A buffet luncheon at Menzies was given
by the bride’s grandmother, Mrs. Conroy,
who wore a black ensemble and a small
black hat trimmed with ospreys. Guests
were mostly young friends of the bride
and ’groom; among them were Yvonne
Whittam, in white-spotted blue silk frock
and wide-brimmed white straw; her
sister, Patric, whose jacket-suit was dusty-
pink ; Moira Shelton, her large delphi-
nium-blue straw hat matching her frock
and full-length coat; Joan Devine, who
topped her navy jacket-suit with a smart
turban of cerise taffeta finished with a
long chiffon drape in the same tonings ;
and Betty Green, her floral frock offset
by a small white hat.
The morning tea-party at the Oriental
arranged by Mesdames Guy Bakewell and
J. J. Daly to farewell Lady Dugan was a
representative gathering, among the guests
being former heads of the war-time
women’s services and voluntary war-
workers as well as representatives of
almost every women’s organisation in this
city. Lady Dugan, in a soft pastel-blue
frock and wide-brimmed navy-straw hat,
was Welcomed by Mrs. T. T. Hollway,
who wore an aqua-blue shirtmaker-frock
and white hat, and the Lady Mayoress,
Mrs. J. S. Disney, whose blue jacket-suit
was worn with a straw bonnet-shaped
flower-trimmed hat. Lady Irvine made a
farewell speech on behalf of the women
of the State. Lady Dugan was accom-
panied by Lady Bracegirdle, Mrs. A. A.
Lord and Kathleen Deasey; also in the
official party were Lady Herring, Lady
Mann and Mrs. John Cain. The jacket
of Lady Heinze’s navy suit had the new
shoulder-cape, and her small natural-straw
boater was trimmed with feather quills.
Mrs. George Jones wore an American
Beauty linen tailored frock and a wide-
brimmed natural-straw hat.
A late-afternoon party given by the
Lord Mayor, Cr. J. S. Disney, and Mrs.
Disney, at the Town Hall, at which a
presentation was made to Lord and Lady
Dugan of a beautiful writing-desk, the
gift of the Council and the citizens of
Melbourne, gave guests an opportunity
of bidding affectionate farewell to Vic-
toria’s popular vice-regals. Among the
official guests were Sir Edmund
Herring and Lady Herring, Sir Owen
and Lady Dixon, Mr. and Mrs.
R. G, Casey, Mr. T. T. Hollway
and his wife, the United Kingdom High
Commissioner, E. J. Williams, and Mrs.
Williams. Lady Dugan’s lovely silk frock,
patterned in midnight-blue on a white
ground, was worn with a large midnight-
blue tulle hat.
A silk crepe jacket-suit of black
allied to a dove-grey silk blouse and
worn with an upswept hat of black velvet
lined beneath the brim with rucked grey
velvet Was worn by the Lady Mayoress.
Mrs, Hollway’s draped frock was of aqua-
blue crepe, her off-the-face hat of beech-
brown grosgrain. Mrs. R. G. Casey com-
bined black frock and hat, the latter
trimmed with deep royal-blue ribbon.
Mrs. R. G. Menzies added to her navy
ensemble a small hat of mauve, green,
blue and pink taffetas. Mrs. Isobel Green
was in soft-blue crapes with white bead
trimming providing contrast; her hat
was of black straw. Mrs. John Kauf-
man’s ensemble and small hat were both
in deep-navy. Very attractive was the
Chartreuse crepe frock with cream lace
trimming worn by Mrs. Herbert Pacini
with a large black hat.
The opening night of “Othello"’ at the
Princess brought out fashions which put
the accent on the wide bouffant skirt and
the bare-shoulder effect. Mrs. Garnet
Carroll’s gown of black crepe had the
bertha collar and bodice studded with
jet beads. Mrs. T. T. Hollway plumped
for florals. Daphne Newton, of “Present
Laughter” celebrity, was chic in a
Regency striped gown of yellow and
white; the skirt wide and with a bustle.
Sheila Helpmann, who has just returned
from England, and will play Katherine in
“The Taming of the Shrew,” was in green-
and-white-striped taffetas. Angela Fink,
who has just completed her law course,
highlighted her white organdie with a
wide Alice-blue satin sash. French man-
nequin Paula Paulus’s white satin gown
was strapless and moulded to her figure.
Black-and-white-striped taffeta was Mrs.
Philip Dare’s choice, Mrs. M. Copolov’s
flowing Grecian gown was of pale-grey
chiffon. A scarf studded with gold
matched the white top of the crepe
bodice of Mrs. N. Carlyon’s gown, the
skirt being of dull-green crepe. A small
black velvet hat trimmed with ostrich-
feathers went with Mrs. Margaret Saker’s
short black evening frock. Gloria Ladd’s
off-the-shoulder ballerina frock was of
black moire.
Brian Jones, on behalf of the British
Council, gave a late-afternoon party at
Scott’s Hotel for Ngaio Marsh and her
Canterbury Student Players. Ngaio’s
lime-green jacket-suit had a pleated frill
on the hem to match the frilled collar of
the jacket. Ballerina Sally Gilmour (Mrs.
Alan Wynn) combined grey suit with
small black hat, Mrs. Mae Hoban’s floral
frock was worn with a contrasting black
hat, Mrs. D. D. O’Connor’s navy frock
bad a White panel, Peggy Tellick had
white accessories for her grey suit. The
Assistant U.K. Trade Commissioner,
W. G. Lamarque, and Mrs. Lamarque,
Prof. G. S. Browne and Associate Prof.
Keith Macartney were also among the
guests. Among the Canterbury Players
present were Brigid Lenihan, who made
her debut at the Union Theatre as Des-
demOna, Pamela Mann and Monica
Mead.
The former Lane home in Toorak-
road, Toorak, has now become the Epi-
curean Club, and in this lovely setting
wedding receptions and parties will be
catered for. The club recently opened
with a late-afternoon party given by
Tom Carlyon. Mrs. Lionel Newton was
in a draped black crepe frock and black
picture hat which had a trimming of tulle
on the edge of the brim. Mrs. Frank
May’s hat was of cartwheel size and
worn with a black frock. The rolled brim
on the large off-the-face hat worn by
Mrs. Frank Davies was effective. Mrs.
M. Nathan’s lace frock was beige, her
hat a halo of soft pink roses. A large
beige feather mount embellished the hign
crown of Mrs. George Griffiths’s hat;
her bustle frock was also of beige. Multi-
colored feathers trimmed the hat worn
by Mrs. Arch Aitken with her black
cocktail frock.


V'v
V
State Electricity Commission of Victoria
(Constituted under Act of Parliament of Victoria )
£1,000,000
KIEWA-MORWELL
LOAN
(LOAN No. 25)
Issued under authority of the
STATE ELECTRICITY COMMISSION (FINANCIAL) ACT 1937
No. 4512 (and Amendments) of the State of Victoria
RATE OF INTEREST - £3-3-9% PER ANNUM
PRICE OF ISSUE PAR
CURRENCY 12 YEARS
(Repayable at Par Ist March, 1961)
The net proceeds of the Loan will be applied to
capital works associated with the expansion of the
Commission’s undertaking, including Kiewa Hydro-
Electric project and Mot well Briquette project.
The Loan is secured upon the Commissions revenues .
The Principal and interest are guaranteed by the
Government of Victoria • The loan is a trustee
Security in Victoria, Queensland and Tasmunia.
PROSPECTUS AND APPLICATIONS
Copies of the full prospectus can be obtained from,
and applications may be lodged with The National
Bank of Australasia Ltd. (including The Queensland
National Bank Ltd.) at any of its offices in Australia;
members of recognised Stock Exchanges in Australia ;
the Head Office of the Commission, zz William
Street, Melbourne, or any of its offices in Victoria.
LOAN OPENS WEDNESDAY 9th Feb. 1949
ALLOTMENTS WILL BE MADE IN ORDER OF, RECEIPT OF APPLICATIONS.
AND THE LOAN WILL CLOSE ON OR BEFORE WEDNESDAY 2nd MARCH, 1949
22 William Street,
Melbourne
G. G. JOBBINS
Chairman
THE SERVICE MAN
Burma's Sorry Plight.
“Ek Dum”: Its privacy re-
spected by the Australian press,
Burma is carrying on its civil
war, which threatens to turn
Dr, Evatt’s sturdy ally into
something that will look, in a
few days, as if an atom-bomb
had hit it.
The Karen rebels, pursuing
their campaign more like several
hordes of ants than anything
else, were holding out in the
town of Bassein when heard of
just before the week-end. At
the same time they were fighting
for Pegu. And in the suburbs
of Riangoon itself streams of
refugees were pouring into the
battered city with the news that
a mob of Karens, male and
female, had taken part of Insein,
which is only 10 miles from the
capital.
In fact, apart from the sea
approaches, official Burma is
virtually surrounded.
Thakin Nu and his “re-
formed” Government are still in
office because nobody else wants
a dead horse except the
Karens.
The Government’s financial
position is no better than its
strategic situation. Its budget
deficit for its first year of office
is about £14,000,000 apart from
the thousands of lives which
have been lost, and 30,000 Gov-
ernment employees have gone
on strike against pay reduc-
tions. British Women and
children were being evacuated
at the week-end.
It looks as if one of Dr.
Evatt’s new democracies is go-
ing west.
Lull in China.
“Ek Dum”: Events in China
follow an exasperatingly familiar
pattern, Chiang Kai-shek has
retired to his native city. His
troops are moving unobtrusively
southward. Those of his imme-
diate aides and lieutenants who
think that they will weather the
storm better at a distance from
the centre of operations are off
to their chosen havens.
As suggested in the earlier
stages of the debacle, it is a
curious fact that Chiang, even
in defeat and retirement, is still
the -'only figure high up in
Nationalist China who com-
mands respect. It seems that Li
Tung-jen is looked upon merely
as a chair-warmer in his seat
during his enforced holiday, if
holiday it is, and if Chiang is
not actually directing events*
from afar.
The Nanking Government
has, of course, lost its local in-
fluence for the time being. Half
a dozen war-lords in as many
areas are exercising provincial
authority so far as the forces at
their disposal will allow them.
Most of them have hopes that
their particular capitals will be-
come the centre of China,
though, for the present, none of
them, except perhaps Sim Fo,
son of Sun Yat Sen, who is as
like as not the echo of Chiang,
aims to establish a Government.
Sun Fo’s hopes turn on Canton,
traditional Holy City of the
Suns.
There are some elements.
“Would you mind getting me a dressing-gown?”
such ,as that “led” by Wang
Wen-hao, former Prims Minister,
which merely wait to see what
will happen before they decide
whether the proper course of
action is to adhere to some of the
other fractions or do a moon-
light flit to Hong Kong, the safe
territory of those British whom
they have done their best to kick
out of their Far East —fortun-
ately for themselves without
complete. success.
The Communists are not hav-
ing it all their own way. China
is a country of immense dis-
tances, and hordes move slowly,
especially when they have no in-
dependent commissariat and
must live off the land. There is
little surplus to live off. The
local inhabitants consume from
their own supplies and make it
difficult for invaders to collect
their produce.
At the nearest effective point
which they occupy the Com-
munist forces are roughly 800
miles by crow-fly from Canton,
and they are not crows. By main
rail the distance is nearer 1200
miles, and more than half China
proper is not yet occupied by
them.
They are not even as yet in
Nanking or Shanghai, and their
policy, apparently, is to soften-
up those cities by suspense and
propaganda before trying to
take them over.
The Australian Communist,
papers have an extra-
ordinarily ample and expensive
service of news from China
which makes it perfectly clear,
despite the repeated denials,
that Mao-tsz’s Communism is
clearly connected with Moscow
Communism. Latest Communist
dispatches say that “since the
victories in the fighting round
Pengpu and Suchow,” vigorous
preparations have been made
for the crossing of the
Yang-tsz River, and the south-
ward drive of what all Com-
munist journals cynically de-
scribe as the “Chinese Libera-
tion armies.” The crossing of
the river was reported to have
begun on Sunday.
The Communist leaders, with
the help of a superintending
delegate from Moscow, have
been busy creating a Central
Bureau in the Central Plains
which has undertaken the job
of Red-anting the south in pre-
paration for its invasion.
This has issued a manifesto
couched in Stalinese which calls
on “all party cadres to mobilise
ideologically for the coming
great offensive” which will
“carry through the campaign to
the end.” There is a lot about
“iron wills” and the “tasks
assigned to the —conquered —■
people of the Central Plains.”
The resistance of the National
Government is denounced as
“the brutal war on the Chinese
people in support of American
imperialism,” and retribution is
promised the Nanking Govern-
ment for “its crimes.”
Armed largely from Japanese
spoils to which he was given
access by the treacherous Rus-
sians in defiance of all agree-
ments with the Allies, Mao now
alleges modestly that his forces
have “defeated 4,000,000 troops”
—just like that! —and “over-
come unparalleled difficulties
and strengthened and enlarged
their own ranks, arming them-
selves with large quantities of
American arms presented by the
American Government to the
Kuomintang.”
Actually it is oqly three or
four years ago since every Com-
munist in the world was shriek-
ing to the Americans that it was
their primary duty to arm the
Chinese Nationalist Govern-
ment. A slight volte-face like that
on the U.S. arms question is
nothing to a party which blasted
Hitler as the world’s greatest
gangster in the last half of
1939, and was sending telegrams
to Ribbentrop at Christmas-time
the same year telling him that
the Kremlin’s friendship for
Berlin was cemented with blood.
The Chinese people, says the
Communist manifesto, yearn
for peace, but “don’t want peace
with war criminals” —meaning
anybody who is opposed to
Communism or who happens to
own something which the Com-
munists think may be most
easily obtained through declar-
ing the owner of it a war
criminal and murdering him.
Mao declares that, until the
Nanking Government accepts
his terms, there will be no slack-
ening of the war. As the terms
involve complete liquidation of
everything the Nanking leaders
stand for, including themselves,
they probably all feel that they
may just as well be hung for
sheep as lambs.
In Peking and Tientsin the
Communists are setting them-
selves out not so much to im-
press the Chines'e as the capi-
talists whom they hope to lure
into making it easy for them in
Shanghai and other centres of
wealth.
Prices are going up to the
skies through the changeover to
Communist currency, into which
the feeble yuan of the Nation-
alists have been converted. All
foreign businesses have been
closed. The cities are plastered
with slogans all aimed at
“American Imperialism.” The
blackmarkets which always
follow the trail of Socialism are
already in full swing.
The whole situation suggests
that, despite the mighty so-
called armies of Mao, which
swept aside 4,000,000 enemies
like a handful of leaves, the
main Communist asset is bluff.
Its leaders know that if they
antagonise • the locals they will
find them unmanageable.
“Softlee, softlee catchee mon-
key.”
"Our Indernesian
Brethren."
“Ek Dum”: A White Paper
issued by the Netherlands Gov-
ernment last September, docu-
menting the activities of the so-
called Government of the
“Indonesian Republic” in con-
travention of the truce agree-
ment, contains evidence which
takes the story up to August,
1948.
It does not present a pretty
picture.
It opens with Letters of Cre-
dence issued by Dr. Sukarno
(Soekarno) to a person named
Suripno, accrediting him to the
Governments of U.S.S.R. and
other Governments in Eastern


Missing Friends.
WOULD ALFRED HENRY BROWN,
formerly of Freeman’s Road, Brooklyn, in
the State of Victoria, but now of parts
unknown, or anyone knowing his where-
abouts, please communicate with MESSRS.
W. H. JONES & KENNEDY, Solicitors,
of 214 Nicholson Street, Footscray.
WILL any persons having any knowledge
of the whereabouts of MRS. JESSIE
STEWART CLAREMONT DUNTON, nee
HAMILTON, who was last heard of in
Sydney about seven years ago, please com-
municate with the DISTRICT PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Timaru, New Zealand?
WILL any person claiming to be next-
of-kin or any person having knowledge
of the whereabouts of the next-of-kin of
THOMAS LLOYD, late of Brisbane,
Queensland, Retired Gentleman, who died
at Brisbane on the sth August, 1902,
please communicate with the PUBLIC
CURATOR OP QUEENSLAND, Edward
Street, Brisbane.
Public Notices.
I, CHRISTINA MANOUSAKIS, of Greek
nationality, born at Castelorizo, Greece,
and resident 25 years in Australia, now
residing at 17 Bennett Street, Surry Hills,
Sydney, intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality and Citizenship
Act 1948.
I, JIM MATTIS, of Greek nationality,
born at Cerigo, Greece, and resident 11
years in Australia, now residing at 216
Castlereagh Street, Sydney, intend to
apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality and Citizenship Act 1948.
IXL - AJC
OK-VC
These World Famous Brands are
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:—
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
i
0
s*
m
IT’S dead easy. Just ignore the traffic safety signs and you
can qualify for death or injury. You’ll make your own
headlines —but you won’t be around to read them.
m.
2 Die at Crossing”
To qualify for this
headline —an all too
frequent one just
forget that sign at
the railway level
crossing or try to
race the train over it.
“Hilltop Fatality”
Just accelerate past
another car on the
double lines near the
of a hill. That
will give you a good
even chance of sud-
den death.
V.
/j
“Pedestrian Killed”
You can fit this headline too if you
step *off the kerb without looking
both ways.
PEDESTRIAN
CROSSING
m
“Death Skid”
Just think the “ S ”
bend sign doesn’t
mean you, and step
on it. You’ll never
know what happened
Too many Australians make headlines like these. Don’t be one of them.
Whether driver or pedestrian, observe all traffic laws always. Be careful.
DEATH IS SO PERM AMENT..
d
fd
ISSUED BY THE AUSTRALIAN ROAD SAFETY COUNCIL
(Administered by the Commonwealth Department of Transport)
R5V.22.83.19
and Central Europe to negoti-
ate friendly relations with these
nations behind the Iron Curtain.
The appointment of a Minis-
ter, of course, was nothing out
of the ordinary, but Suripno
was. He is an Indonesian who
worked in the civil service. He
was in Holland at the end of
the war and returned to Batavia
about the beginning of 1947 as
the representative of the Indo-
nesia Students’ Union, a more-
than-pinkish body.
At once a new Central Com-
mittee of the Communist party
was formed, with an executive
Political Bureau of five members,
of whom Suripno was one.
In March, 1947, he was sent
by the Indonesian Republic to
the Pan-Asian Conference in
New Delhi. Later that year he
was in London, where he was
known (say the Dutch) to have
contacted Communist-p arty
headquarters, and from there he
went to Prague. In Prague, in
May, he negotiated diplomatic
contact and an exchange of
Consuls with the Soviet Union
through Comrade Silin, the
U.S.S.R. Ambassador.
By a message of June 8,
Suripno was summoned to
Jogjakarta by a radio from Dr.
Sukarno, who was careful to
inform him that he was “not
being recalled to be accused of
anything,” but to give informa-
tion about his service and to
consult on future action!
Shortly afterwards the Indo-
nesian press hailed the new re-
lationship with Russia, which
was interpreted by the Medan
paper “Semangat Merdeka” as
“the first warning [by Russia]
to the capitalist and imperialist
front of the Americans and the
Netherlanders in Indonesia not
to sabotage the struggle for free-
dom of the Indonesians. Let
us fully avail ourselves of this
opportunity to bring pressure to
bear upon the Netherlanders
continually.”
Thus the contacts between
Indonesia and Russia were fur-
tively arranged, not in Moscow,
by an Indonesian Communist,
and some of the Indonesian
press interpreted the recogni-
tion of the “Republic” by the
U.S.S.R. as a partisan, and not
merely a diplomatic, move.
A paper was captured by the
Netherlanders containing the
orders of the former Republi-
can Prime Minister, Shari-
fuddin, to one Ali Budiardjo
for a plan of campaign in case
of a deadlock in the discussions
with the Dutch. It was, from
first to last, a Communist-type
campaign with all the normal
horrible details of such plans:
(/) Mobilisation of laborers; form
as many cells as possible in all ser-
vices in accordance with the wishes of
the 5.0.8.5.1. (Central Trade-union
Organisation); mobilisation of the
fanatics for a “holy war” on the
basis of the Cairo aspirations, tend-
ing to create a “Pan Islam” oppos-
ing the “Pan Europe” (Churchill).
Mobilisation of malevolent elements:
sneaks, pickpockets, looters, thieves,
etc.
(g) Plan of campaign for the
5.0.8.5.1. and the P.A.R.I. (Aus-
trasia representative, Indonesia).
Next comes a long series of
operation orders for under-
ground Republican troops who
remained secretly in Dutch
territory after the truce agree-
ment —such as “strengthen the
Republican spirit by a whisper-
ing campaign.... spread rumors
among the Netherlanders and
their adherents to the effect that
in the coming third world war
the Netherlanders shall be de-
stroyed and oppressed by the
Russians. The Republic of
Indonesia shall remain free and
happy.” This emanated from
the Republican “Ministry of
Defence.” Another order
addressed to “counter-intelli-
gence-members” enjoined “sabot-
aging the enemy’s economy,
which is considered important
....waging a guerrilla war
against the Netherlands Army ;
apply the scorched-earth policy
to enemy buildings; kidnap-
ping.” This was dated June 30,
1948.
Still another instruction signed
“Satuan,” Field Preparation
Unit 88 in West Java, gives
“permission to every member of
G.R. 88 to “rob enemy pro-
perty and also to kill the enemy
if this is considered necessary
in view of the risks run.” The
document continues;
The following people may be
robbed: (a) Enemy spies; (b) hench-
men of the Netherlanders; (c) traitors
to the people; (d) those who bar-
gain away the State; (e) anti-republi-
cans and pro-Netherlanders; (f) the
enemy economy.
On June 5 all units which had
removed explosives from fac-
tories and bridges were ordered
by the Indonesian Defence
Ministry to replace the material
“so that they can carry into
effect within the shortest possible
time the scorched-earth policy.”
There is a horrible message
dated from Sumatra, June 26,
1948, from Major M Kartawir-
ana. Chairman Executive Com-
mittee Truce Agreement, Pro-
vince of Sumatra, to the Secre-
tary of the Security Committee
in the Republican capital of
Jogjakarta:
I am sending you herewith a list
of names of the seven Netherlanders
encircled on December 17, 1947, at
Goenoeng Djati....As the troops
that made them prisoners-of-war were
encircled, the above prisoners-of-war
were assassinated.
There are papers on Com-
munist organisation. These
showed a high degree of organi-
sation and contact at least be-
tween the Republican Governor
of Sumatra Province in June,
1948, with the Malayan Com-
munist party. There is a letter
from the head of the Com-
munist-party Section, Sumatra
(June 11, 1948), referring to
“the agreement reached by our
Deputy President and adminis-
trative officials and that reached
with the commanders of the
[lndonesian] Republican Army,
the intention of which is co-
operation with regard to the
building-up of the Indonesian
State,” and hoping that Indo-
nesians furtively visiting Malaya
“who are being trained there in
soldiering will be sent back to
Sumatra.”
A letter is quoted in full, dated
May 25, 1948, requesting a Mr,
Zubir Iljas, Brevet Captain,
Kuala Lumpur —the British
Malayan capital—to “carry out
the orders of His Excellency
Lieutenant - General Suhardjo
Hardjowidjojo,” commander of
the whole of the Republican
forces in Sumatra. This is
ostensibly signed by an
executive officer of the Ninth
Indonesian Division, who re-
marks, “I have given my assent
to your starting co-operation
with the leaders of the Malaya
Communist Association through-
out Malaya, because this party
has considerable influence in
Malaya and Singapore.” The
letter also dealt with the ar-
rangements for the illegal pur-
chase of arms in Malaya.
The Communist party men-
tioned is, of course, the one
whose members every week or so
murder an Australian or two in
process of developing what Mr.
Chifley calls their “political
philosophy.”
There is evidence that the
Republican Government traded
in opium on a large scale under
the supervision of the Salt and
Opium Monopoly and of the
Finance Minister at Jogjakarta,
A. A. Maramis. The trade was
not negligible. It ran into mil-
lions of dollars—in direct con-
travention of the regulations of
the International Opium Com-
mittee and the Hague Treaty of
1912 adhered to by every civi-
lised nation in the world. A
horrible business.
These are the people on whose
behalf the Canberra Ministry is
so sedulous and whom the
waterside workers consider to
be allies.
The U.S.S.R. is putting the
final pressure on Norway to
prevent that country from join-
ing in the Atlantic Security Pact.
The Russian attitude is that the
Norwegians must tie themselves
to the U.S.S.R. or stand alone.
The matter had not been cleared
up at the week-end, but Mr,
Lange, the Norwegian Foreign
Minister, was in the United
States discussing issues. It can
be taken that the Atlantic
Powers will not allow Norway
to remain out of the pact if it is
possible to get her in ; her ship-
ping means too much to world
defence. The joke of the Russian
Note was a sentence which de-
dared that the U.S.S.R. had al-
ways been friendly to Norway,
and that “during the Second
World War the Sovipt Union
contributed it share in the case
of Norway’s liberation from the
Fascist invaders.” Actually
Moscow applauded the invasion
of Norway by its ally Herr Hitler,
and the Communists were about
the only section of the Nor-
wegian community outside
Quisling’s followers who were
given special privileges. The
position shocked even Professor
Laski.
Mr. Chambers, Minister for
the Army, is proud that, as an
item of post-war training, the
R.A.A.F. in the first five months
of 1948 photographed 100,000
square miles of Australia in
process of helping to make a
military survey of Australia. So
it did. But at the rate the
survey is going ahead it will take
about 20 years —by which time
it will be thoroughly out of date
if development is what it should
be.


PERMANENCE .
EXPERIENCE ... SECURITY
To protect the future of your family, look for
the fundamental qualifications of Permanence,
Experience and Security when selecting your
Executor and Trustee. Because it has these
important qualifications, the Permanent Trustee
Company has many advantages over the private
individual in matters of Estate administration.
,1. The Permanent Trustee Company has
permanent existence. Its officers are always
available for consultation. The Company’s
guaranteed permanence ensures faithful
administration until the completion of the
Trust.
Since its incorporation 60 years ago, the
Company’s officers have accumulated a wealth
of experience in dealing with 'Estates of all
kinds. This accumulated experience is some-
thing no single individual can hope to possess.
The Company’s entire capital and assets—
exceeding £1,000,000 —are available for the
protection of Estates entrusted to its care.
Write for free booklet
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W. LID.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond, Chairman
F. H. Way, Vice-Chairman
Cecil H. Doyle
F. W. Hixson
Dr. G. M. Barron
J, R. Faviell
Manager:
N. L. Shaw
Asst. Manager:
C. N. P. Whittle
UNAFFECTED BY THE
PASSAGE OF TIME
s
m
f
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
LOUD THE ALARMS!
Lately cables have been
carrying news of “easing of
tension” in the cold, cold war —
cause enough for some preen-
ing in the office of “U.S. News
and World Report,” which well-
informed publication’s confi-
dent no-war predictions all
through the past year of alarms
have from time to time been
represented in “Uncabled Addi-
tions.” In the latest issue air-
mailed it reviews some of the
alarms;
“The ‘cold war’ between
Russia and the West doesn’t go
quite according to fears, to ex-
pectations widely held. It’s sur-
prising—and significant—how
many things there are that the
Russians were expected to do,
but didn’t.
“Berlin ‘air-lift’ was supposed
to be broken up by Soviet
attacks on planes and bases. An
‘incident’ was expected. But the
air-lift goes on. As a matter of
fact, the Russians even go out
of their way to keep phone lines
between Berlin airfields and
Western Germany in excellent
repair.
“Blockade of Vienna, on Ber-
lin pattern, has been looked for.
It hasn’t come.
“Invasion of Iran has not yet
taken place, despite hints and
pressures.
“Soviet aid to Greek guerril-
las remains indirect, via satel-
lites. Fears that Russia would
move in boldly, take a direct
hand, have not materialised.
“Liquidation of Tito also
comes under the head of new
business for Moscow, Effective
crackdown on Yugoslavia,
though expected, has not come
to pass.
“Seizure of Finland, due to
follow the Czech coup, hasn’t
happened yet.
“Revolt in Italy was supposed
to follow Communist failure to
win the Italian elections, with
the Soviet sending troops in to
help the Italian Communists.
But that didn’t happen, either.
“A revolt in France looked
probable, too, when Communist-
inspired strikes threatened to
overturn the Government. But
French troops disposed of that
one.
“A trade break with the West,
economic isolation, has not
taken place as expected. In-
stead, Soviet trade deals with
Britain, Italy and others point
the other way.
“A break in diplomatic rela-
tions, the normal thing to ex-
pect in view of tensions, bitter
controversies, hasn’t come about
between Russia and any major
Power.
“Withdrawal from the U.N.
by the Russians hasn’t hap-
pened, either.
“War, finally, has not broken
out, seems less imminent than it
did a while ago—remains as a
fear, to be sure, but one for the
indefinite future.”
Seeking an explanation,
“U.S. News and World Report”
admits that there can only be a
guess, though a guess “based on
pieces of evidence from many
sources,” on these lines:
“Appetite for war is not as
keen in Soviet Russia as many
persons think. Soviet economy
hasn’t recovered from World
War 11. The Russian people
want peace, Hot war.
, “The Soviet advance in
Europe gone about as far as
it can without war. Russia
doesn’t want that now. The
price is too steep. Policy is to
hold on, bargain.
“Soviet advance in Asia, on
the other hand, involves no vis-
ible risk of war, meets no Wes-
tern strength, is accomplished
at no expense at all to Moscow.
“Troubles inside Russia are
an additional factor. The Soviet
economic situation isn’t good
enough to stand the strain of
an expensive operation in
Europe. The need, instead, is
to get more from the West
through trade.”
The conclusion from all of
which is: “Russia isn’t all-
powerful, after all, isn’t free to
move any place it wants, when
and as Mr. Stalin fancies.”
Chinese War-lords.
The Chinee, heathen or other-
wise, is still liable tQ b© peculiar,
Corns or not, judging by one
passage in a long report on them
by the London “Times” Peking
correspondent.
The writer mentions reports
of the same personal rivalries
existing on the Com. side as exist
among Chiang Kai - shek's
Nationalists, with “several of the
[Com.] generals on bad terms
and jealous of each other’s
power.”
These generals, the corres-
pondent points out, always re-
main in command of the same
army, and it is noticeable that a
Communist army no longer calls
itself the Xth Revolutionary
Army, but Lin Piao’s Army or
Chicago “Times"
"IT SEEMS NOBODY WANTS US."
Chen Yi’s Army, or whichever
commander it happens to have.
The different areas controlled by
Communist generals have each
its own currency, which is at a
premium against that of a
neighboring area. “Mao Tse-
tung is far away in Yenan, and
is said to exercise only a general
and limited control. For this
reason the violence and severity
with which Communist principles
are enforced vary in different
localities. From all accounts, the
Communist leaders seem once
again well on the way to becom-
ing independent war-lords.”
Eisenhower Decided.
An editorial note in “Life”
would appear to settle once and
for all the highly interesting his-
torical question of why it was
arranged that the Russians, not
the U.S. or U.S.-British forces,
should be the ones to take Ber-
lin.
There have been directly con-
tradictory accounts, even from
those who should have been in
a position to know. Thus, Wil-
liam C. Bullitt’s version is that
an agreement was made with the
Russians that they should enter
Berlin first, his account imply-
ing that this was agreed to by
Washington and London.
The version given by Harry
L. Hopkins, whose memoirs
have been serialised in Aus-
tralian papers, is altogether dif-
ferent: “Anyone who knows
anything about it knows that we
would have taken Berlin'had we
been able to do so. This would
have been a great feather in the
Army’s cap, but for [anyone]
rtow to say that the President
agreed that the Russians were to
take Berlin is utter nonsense.”
Now “Life” has declared that
both the Hopkins and Bullitt
version are wrong—Hopkins
completely wrong, and Bullitt
wrong in implying that the
agreement was made with the
concurrence of Roosevelt and
Churchill, “Eisenhower,”
“Life” declares, “has publicly
stated on more than one occa-
sion that he alone made the de-
cision not to enter Berlin, and
that his decision was based on
military considerations and on
nothing else.”
The quoted Eisenhower ex-
planation is that at the end of
March, 1945, the Americans,
250 miles short of Berlin, were
on the Rhine ; on the east the
Russians had established, a
bridgehead across the Oder, 30
miles from Berlin. Eisenhower’s
mission was the destruction of
the German Armies as rapidly
and economically as possible,
and he decided that the way to
do this was to drive south and
east to eliminate the possibility
of a German stand in the alleged
“southern redoubt.” In addi-
tion, he had to be careful not to
precipitate trouble when his for-
ward units ran headlong into the
Russian forward units. In
Eisenhower’s opinion the most
difficult military manoeuvre in
modern warfare is to effect a
N. Y. "World-Telegram."
NEW WALL OF CHINA.
peaceful juncture between
rapidly-advancing allied armies
in a situation of this kind.
Eisenhower therefore com-
municated with Stalin, explained
the nature of his plans and said
that he was not interested in
capturing Berlin, Stalin replied
that he wasn’t either. Out of
their discussion grew the agree-
ment to meet at the Elbe-Mulde
line.
As it turned out, the “southern
redoubt” never materialised as a
threat. Instead (as “Life”
records it), “The main American
’thrust moved east so fast that
U.S. troops were at the agreed
line before the Russians, who
were still tied up by stiff Ger-
man resistance just east of Ber-
lin. Today Eisenhower says he
is. convinced that he could have
reached Berlin ahead of the Rus-
sians. The reason he did not was
simply that as a military man he
had no reason for going there.
“This record,” “Life” com-
ments, “does not explain why
the political leaders in Washing-
ton left General Eisenhower to
make his decision on purely mili-
tary grounds. For while it is not
the responsibility of a military
leader to consider the politics of
war, it is the duty of his political
superiors to do so. In this case,
by their silence they participated
in his decision” —as it has turned
out, one of the most fateful of
the whole war.
West No Push-over.
If an Atlantic Pact does get
ratified, or, as seems more likely,
something short of a military
pact, but really equivalent, is
agreed to, it will mean the final
division of the world into two
camps, and they will be heavily-
armed camps, with the strong
probability that that implies.
Looking into the respective
strength of the possible two
camps, “Christian Science
Monitor’s” military waiter Cap-
tain Frederick L. Oliver sees
much that might be calculated to
deter the Kremlin war lords if
they’re the realists they’re often
said to be.
Even in the one form of
strength where it is generally
conceded to hold a dominant
position—that is, in forces at
present mobilised —the Soviet
side is regarded by the
“Monitor”' expert as far from
incomparably overwhelming, as
is sometimes credited. The
Soviet - side forces currently
mobilised “are supposed to total
around 5,000,000 men, many of
whom are poorly equipped and
trained” ; a war mobilisation of
25.000. might be possible.
The Atlantic-side forces at
present under arms is put at
3.000. ; war strength,
20.000.
“In one way or another,” the
writer comments, “an outbreak
of hostilities between Russia and
the Alliance would undoubtedly
find most of the rest of the world
allied with the latter, bringing to
its assistance many millions in
manpower and untold amounts
of vital materials.” He gives as
the estimate of Soviet steel pro-
duction 14,000,000 tons per
year, “approximately only half
the capacity with which Hitler
attempted to impose his will on
the world.” Against that is a
U.S. capacity alone of 90,000,000
tons, with Belgium, France,
Italy, Luxemburg, Britain,
Canada and West Germany add-
ing among them more than a
further 44,000,000 tons capacity.
Russia’s petroleum production
the writer declares to be “inade-
quate for its industries and trans-
portation system” ; the estimate
here is 270,000,000 barrels of oil
per year, whereas the Alliance
could count on a yearly produc-
tion of better than 2,000,000,000
barrels. “Furthermore, the only
increase on which the Soviet
could rely would be synthetic-
production of petroleum, as
control of the Mediterranean
by the Alliance could prevent
transportation of oil should


production areas in the Near
East be taken by the Russians,”
Another serious snag could be
transportation: “In its drive
across Europe during the recent
war, the Russian Army fre-
quently was delayed by defi-
ciencies in transportation despite
an enormous number of trucks
and other vehicles supplied Under
lend-lease by the United States.
Transportation within Russia
always has been poor. The rail-
roads have been inadequate, suf-
fering from inefficiently main-
tained equipment and bad man-
agement. Highways have been
deficient in number, and in
general lack the hard surfaces
prevalent throughout most of
Western Europe.
“Before the collapse of Ger-
many there were three trans-
European double-tracked rail-
roads, but it is understood that
the Soviets have reduced them to
the generally poor status of their
own railways, and in addition
have removed one set of rails for
use in Russia.”
Dealing, in a subsequent
article, with possible lines of
strategy, the writer states that,
while it is well-known that a
concentration of ‘bomber
strength has been effected in
Britain, less has been said about
bases in other areas: “It is
known, however, that bases are
available in Alaska and else-
where in the Arctic area, Green-
land, Azores, Western Europe,
East, North and West Africa,
South America, Iraq, Japan and
other places in the Far East.
Land bases will be supplemented
by airplane - carriers, whose
mobility makes them difficult to
locate and attack.” He specially
lists also Greece and Turkey.
As to the much-publicised
ability of the Soviet side to over-
run Western Europe, the
“Monitor” expert holds that this,
although “undoubtedly high on
the Soviet agenda,” would not
prove so simple as it might
appear at first glance: “Soviet
forces in East Germany are
separated from the nearest in-
dustrial centres in Russia by
more than 1000 miles of shaky
communications that are highly
vulnerable to air attack from
several directions.
“Disruption of communica-
tions, resistance by Alliance
troops in Europe, and the
presence of militant dissatisfied
factions in satellite countries in
their rear would make a Soviet
advance into Western Europe a
very questionable procedure.
“Were the venture successful,
the sullen water of the English
Channel and North Sea will be
as formidable a barrier to the
Russians as it was to Napoleon
and Hitler, who also had no sea-
power.
“In addition, the underground
activities of hostile populations
in occupied countries will re-
quire a dispersion df military
strength that can ill be spared
from the protection of Russia’s
8,500,000 square miles of terri-
tory.”
U.N.O. Exclusions.
Commenting on the U.S.
move to have the Security Coun-
cil reconsider U.N.O. member-
ship applications blackballed by
Russia, N. Y. “World-Telegram”
points out that while the veto
power over new membership re-
mains “Stalin will continue to
be a one-man board on admit-
tance —or rather on exclusion”:
“The legal requirements for
admittance are clear. Any peace-
loving sovereign nation which
lives up to its international com-
mitments has a right to mem-
bership, This was confirmed last
May by the decision of the In-
ternational Court of Justice. It
ruled that Security Council
members have no right to black-
ball applicants on political
grounds. Of course, that is pre-
cisely what Stalin has been
doing—illegally. There is no
legal basis, much less moral one,
for barring Italy, Austria, Fin-
land, Portugal, Ireland, Trans-
jordan and Ceylon as he has
done,”
The mere fact that that can
>.be the position says a whale of
a lot on the dreadful impotence
of UJSf.O.
Ex-Isolationist Sam.
Recent official figures strik-
ingly illustrate the fast-action
story of Uncle Sam’s lightning
change from isolationist to in-
ternationalist :
In 1938 there were 963 per-
sons employed in the U.S. De-
partment of State; today there
are 5652 —an increase of 487 per
cent. Abroad there were 3749
persons working under the
supervision of that department
in 1938 ; today there are 12,294
—a 230 per cent, increase.
The State Department’s
budget has risen from $2,600,000
in 1938 to more than $33,700,000
in 1948 and from about
$20,000,000 for the foreign ser-
vice to more than $300,000,000.
Of 59 U.S. departments,
boards, etc., serving under the
President, 46 (including fhe
State Department) are concerned
in one way or another with the
conduct of foreign affairs.
Job Ahead of Europe.
Described in an editorial note
as having been for 25 years a
lecturer and writer on economics
in Europe and America and
most recently Professor of Eco-
nomics at the U.S. University of
Vermont, Dr, Fritz Kaufmann is
author of an article in N. Y.
“Herald Tribune” supplement
based on almost fantastically-
gathered information and adding
up to a decided doubt on the
possibility of Europe succeeding
in its recovery job, for all the
Marshall-Plan aid.
Apparently Dr. Kaufmann
convinced the Vermont Uni-
versity and other authorities that
a study of the operation of that
plan in Europe should be under-
taken on a large scale. As a re-
sult, he directed an amazing in-
vasion of Europe by no fewer
than 295 observers, each with a
mission to gather first-hand facts
on some given aspect of the pre-
sent condition of the various
European countries. Dr. Kauf-
mann’s article was based on the
mass-coverage reports, plus his
own personal inquiries and
knowledge.
He is convinced, to begin
with, that it must be exceedingly
difficult, if not impossible, to
overcome the invisible destruc-
tion —the dislocation of material
and manpower resources, the
disruption of long-established
patterns of trade and finance,
the loss of technical skills, the
Chicago “Tribune.”
THE FREE BOARDER MOVES IN.
disappearance of savings, confi-
dence and resolution —all of
this dwarfing that physical de-
struction of Europe which is it-
self staggering enough.
In this finding, few Euro-
peans yet realise that 70 to 80
per cent, of their wealth was de-
stroyed by the war: “Inflation,
Government controls and subsi-
dies and the relative abundance
of what is still called ‘money’
co-operate in veiling the reality.”
As a result of that general failure
to appreciate fully what has
happened, “Everyone for him-
self” remains “the catchword of
European actions and reactions.”
Thus, “The British, fervently
patriotic and more British than
ever, ignore party lines to the
extent of backing the Labor
Government’s stubborn policy
of exporting more and consum-
ing less. It is somehow pathetic
to watch them marching so
bravely along a road which leads
to an ever wider gap between
their own recovery and that of
the rest of Europe.”
In France the “everyone-for-
himself” doctrine is found to
have “an uglier connotation,”
There, “Even the professed sup-
porters of one or another of
France’s Governments fail to
give real support to whatever
plan that Government may pro-
duce, if any of its measures run
counter to their own narrow
interests.” Consequently, “a
country capable of contributing
more than any other to Europe’s
balance-sheet is today one of its
greatest liabilities.”
Similarly the Germans, ac-
cording to this finding, feel
they have no moral obligation
to any part of Europe except
their beloved Germany. And so
with “that benign hoax called
‘Benelux’ ” and others, German
production, the report inci-
dentally mentions, lags far be-
hind the level attained in the rest
of Europe: “Yet European pro-
duction as a whole cannot
achieve a satisfactory working
condition without the inclusion
of full German production —a
truism now recognised even by
the most resentful of Germany’s
victims.”
On all grounds, the main find-
ing in the Kaufmann report is
that the European Recovery
Programme alone cannot effect
the hoped-for recovery—defi-
nitely not in the time it is due to
operate. The report compares
in detail aspects of Europe’s
trading and general economic
position to show the deteriora-
tion caused by the war and the
enormous advance that would
need to be made by 1952 if
E.R.P. is to be anything more
than mere stopgap aid. It shows
also how U.S. foreign policy, by
the conditions dictated to the
participating countries, really
denies them the only way out of
their trade dilemma, the U.S.
policy “taking away with one
hand what it lavishly bestows
with the other” —
“A large proportion of the
food and raw materials which
the Marshall - Plan countries
must now get from the U.S.
could be obtained, as they were
before the war, from Eastern
Europe and the Balkans in re-
turn for goods needed there. Un-
fortunately the needed goods are
tools, tractors and engines, not
gloves and perfume. And under
the terms of our [E.R.P.] aid
agreements we prohibit such
sales because they might increase
the war potential of countries
hostile to us. The validity of
our policy is undeniable. On
the other hand, if we cut Wes-
tern Europe off from its only
means of ending its economic de-
pendence on us, we cannot be
surprised if it continues to de-
pend on us for subsistence.”
The report finds that a prac-
tically impossible measure of
European unification is another
vital requirement: it admits
there has been tremendous pro-
gress in this over the past two
years, but holds that nothing like
enough has yet been accom-
plished. Meanwhile, mtra-
European trade continues to de-
dine,” and for the promised
Washington “Post.”
TEMPORARY QUARTERS.
European unification, or at least
co-operation, time is pressing:
“Under the most favorable cir-
cumstances continued peace
and a U.S. Congress which goes
on appropriating the necessary
funds Europeans have less
than three years in which to
make up their minds. If they
can accept the new ideas the
Marshall Plan will be a success.
If they cannot it will be a
failure. By the end of 1951 they
will find themselves exactly
where they are now except that
they will no longer have the
goods which now ensure their
survival.”
Incentives.
Back in the U.S. from look-
ing over the general European
productive performance, Ameri-
can industrialist J. F. Lincoln,
“whose pioneering of incentive-
wage plans [says the “Saturday
Evening Post”] has attracted
wide attention,” declared in an
address in New York that, while
there has been “a promising rise
in production” in Western
Europe, Russian progress “has
been so great as to be alarm-
ing.”
He added that “Russia is in-
creasing her oufput and is ap-
proaching the point where she
can outproduce the United
States.” This, he said, “could be
attributed, not to Communism,
but to Stalin’s departures from
Communism* and toward the in-
centive system.”
The' “Post,” in editorial com-
ment, reserved a doubt about
the value of Russian production
figures, but allowed that ap-
parently “considerable progress
has been made.” Noting dryly
“the incentive to keep out of the
forced - labor camps... .where
millions labor in conditions of
slavery which have no parallel
in history,” the “Post” con-
cluded : “But in addition to this,
Russia rewards workers accord-
ing to what they produce, not
according to the hours they pUt
in—in short, piecework. The re-
sult, according to the Russians,
is a rise of 14 per cent, in labor
productivity,”
The quoted U.S. industrialist
had declared that rise to be “in
striking contrast to the figures
for the countries of Europe and
the United States.” m
Dragnet Digest.
Russians Release P.-0.-w. —“A dis-
tressing feature” of recent German
p.-0.-w. arrivals from Russia in the
British zone, as reported by the Lon-
don “Times” correspondent there,
has been the high percentage of hos-
pital cases: “This has often been as
high as 26 per cent. In September
1225 of a party of 2700 had to be
sent to hospital; and in October 1628
of a party of 4375. Those sent into
diseaseS) and SUS pected pulmonary
tuberculosis.”
* * * *
Barging into Indonesia. To a
rather remarkable estent£«*•«““-
went off bang’against the Dutch over
t he Indonesian “boil-up, most of it
based on the conclusion that the
Dutch were defying TJ.N.O, “For
24 hours,” as one report put it,
“the Netherlands appeared to have
no friend in the whole world.” Since
then a staff correspondent of N. Y.
“Times” in London has reported
second-thoughts on the matter, his
paper putting up the headline “Action
by the Dutch Is Now Seen in a New-
Light.” Government officials in
Britain, the report stated, “were
privately cursing the Americans for,
as they saw it, dashing in cavalierly
without duly weighing the issues or
taking account of the vital need for
Dutch co-operation in the Western
Union and North Atlantic Pact.” The
cap looks a good fit for other heads
besides American.
* * * *
Peanut Flop. —A year or two back
wildly optimistic estimates were given
out on the British Government-
sponsored groundnut scheme in
Tanganyika, running into enormous
acreages and colossal tonnages of
expected crops. There have since
been mostly excuses, some describing
the whole scheme as a failure. This
possibly is as much an exaggeration
as the original estimates; but, regard-
ing the lately revised estimates, soil-
chemist Sir E. John Russell stated
at a conference in Oxford: “The
Government has prophesied that there
will be 1,200,000 acres under culti-
vation in 1949. Instead it is not
likely that there will be more than
60,000 acres. Some of you,” he com-
mented, “may think that for a Gov-
ernment target that is not too bad,
but the experimenters are very dis-
appointed.”
• ♦ * *
Stalin Fears Heights. —The interest-
ing, perhaps significant, personal side-
light on Stalin that he’s scared stiff
of plane-travel, stemming from a
lifelong fear of heights, comes out in
an article in N. Y. “Herald Tribune”
supplement by a fellow-RuSsian, Boris
I. Nicolaevsky. Though Stalin “spends
colossal sums of money for the de-
velopment of aviation, encouraging
inventors in every po sible way,”- he
never flies himself. There has been
only one exception to this —when it
was necessary for Stalin to fly to
Tehran for the 1943 conference with
Churchill and Roosevelt. And that,
the writer declares, had such a severe
effect on Stalin’s health that it has
remained the Kremlin boss’s one and
only trip by plane.
* * * *
A Word for Spain. —Churchill, in
the House of Commons: “The in-
direct aid which we received from
Spain during the war was of immense
service; the trade was precious. The.
way in which Hitler and Mussolirfi
were treated by General Franco was
a monumental example of ingratitude.
It could not be said that Spain in-
jured us or the United States in the
late war. Why then should we be
told that the Spanish people should
be treated as outcasts just because
they are governed by General
Franco?”
jH * * *
U.N.O. Now. —Making out as good
a case as there is for U.N.0., a
“Christiah Science Monitor” corres-
pondent finds that its principal value
lies in the simple fact that it provides
a meeting-place where the delegates
of the nations “not only can, but
do, transact a good deal of valuable
business behind the scenes. Under-
standings of other people’s problems
are sharpened. Personal friendships
are made which cross many frontiers,
and on occasion even penetrate the
ifon curtain.” Despite which, “at
this stage it can be said that the
prestige of the U.N. has sunk so
low that the condition is a matter
of growing concern among some Of
those who are responsible for its
decline.”


"ANGELA"
By GEOFF
BINGHAM.
TONI was the most unusual Italian
who ever existed. He was large
and tremendously fat, although his
fat was firm enough, at least in his
young manhood, for it was in that stage
he was confidently settled. The Park
residents all knew Toni, and saluted him
always happily.
“Ah there, Toni,” they would say.
“Cold day.”
“Cold all right,” Toni would answer
briefly.
“She’s frosty,” they would observe, and
Toni would agree it was frosty, never
anything more.
With that sort of personality you might
say Toni would be the last to attract the
attention of females, but there you would
be wrong. There was a fascination about
Toni and all his secretive ways. True,
the girls thought much about Toni,
especially those who were the daughters
of market-gardeners, but Toni, for the
most part, ignored them. For the most
part—for there were times when Toni
chose to acknowledge the smiles given
him, and some shadowed and troubled
legends had grown up about his large
person and the clever rapacity of his love-
making.
Toni never wore shoes. There was
something attractive about his walk, the
leathery under-heels showing as he
trotted along, softly, splay-footed. There
might almost have been something cat-
or panther-like about his tread and the
silent confidence of his face. Perhaps it
was a sort of fear drew the girls to want
him. Toni, however, seemed oblivious
to his own>many attractions. If he
realised that he was singled out amongst
men by women then he showed nothing
of his knowledge, and his very indiffer-
ence seemed a deadly lure to draw them
on to their doom. In this respect he was
unlike his good friend Roco.
O OCO was in an entirely different boat,
* the sort of Venetian boat, the lazy
romantic gondola-type of craft, floating-
amongst-the-lilies, soft-in-the-blue-even-
ing. Ah, Senora, the water-lilies, they
weep for you. I, Roco ; Roco the great
lover! Roco sighs for you, Senora.,.
But, then, Roco was good to look
upon. If there was something almost
effeminate about his white-skinned fea-
tures, something almost womanish about
his red lips, then that could be changed
quickly when Roco became angered.
Then his dark eyes flashed handsomely
and his skin flushed to the roots of his
black hair. The women who drove him
to anger lived to love him, and Roco,
who knew this, did not mind a few simu-
lated bursts of that emotion.
Even so, Roco was not all anger. He
courted gaily. Unlike Toni, he was never
indifferent to a woman, simply because
he could never be indifferent, not, any-
way, when he had not Roco
the conqueror, the great lover, he
would eye them boldly and gladly. He
loved to tickle them, to break their
superb self-confidence, to draw them
down or up to his own level of immense
jocularity, and swiftly he would rocket
them from the world they had built about
them until they were moving fleetly in
the altogether splendid sphere of Roco
himself.
So that Roco and Toni, each a great
lover in his own way, were never at a
difference over amours, each, so to speak,
content to amble along in his own
sphere, neither lacking very much the
ability to keep amused. Since there is no
boredom in hard work —and Toni and
Roco both worked hard, each in his own
vegetable plot—then the evenings alone
might bring boredom, but never, never
to Roco and Toni.
A S fat almost as Toni were Mr. Spier-
mont’s pigs. It is quite true that Mr.
Spiermont had no logical reason for
rearing pigs. His income was derived
mainly from his post-office, and out of
this he did very well. For example, he
never bought vegetables because the
market-gardeners, still struggling with the
difficulties of the Australian language and
the double-difficulties of Australian Gov-
ernmental forms, showed their gratitude
in kind, so that Mrs. Spiermont was
never at a loss for a creamy caulie or
fresh green peas. If ever, then, there
was a man who could bless bureaucratic
form-filling government, it was Mr.
Spiermont. As a relaxation from all this
form-filling Mr. Spiermont kept pigs.
And at dusk he dearly loved to emerge
and watch his pigs, lean over the sty-
rails and chant softly “Pig, pig, pig,” a
crooning which usually degenerated into
“Peeg, peeg, peeg.” The sleekness of
one sow delighted him, the fatness of ten
little porkers, the pregnancy of a mother
pig, all this was a wholesome joy to him,
the same sort of joy Roco might have
experienced from lips thrust at him in
the dark, experiences and pictures to be
treasured and kept for more barren days,
for girls would not always kiss, and over
the life of every *pig is the shadow of a
butcher’s knife.
Possibly the only worry Mr. Spiermont
had in his otherwise enjoyable life was
how to keep his pigs fat. He had t\yo
horrors, one of having a skinny pig in
his sties and the other of offending his
wife by buying stacks of meal, for Mrs.
Spiermont had no sympathy with, but a
large detestation of, his hobby, and could
not bear the sight of a pig eating whole-
some meal.
She was not to know that this same
hobby cost, each year, thousands of
pounds in money to richer retired men
who knew not as much as did Mr. Spier-
mont about the game. So it was, in
order to escape his wife’s indignation,
that Mr. Spiermont spent his days
puzzling how to feed his pigs without en-
tailing much expense.
The market-gardeners helped him. If
there was a glut in cabbages, or diseased
tomatoes, or if the frost had ruined some
vegetable, the entire crop found its way
into the maws of the hungry pigs. Pos-
sibly no man ever welcomed with such
joy the failures of a season, but the
Italians were astute, and by now had
their times of sowing and, consequently,
their times of reaping down to a fine art.
They rarely suffered from glut or disease,
or the vagaries of seasons.
Now, with these prospects almost en-
tirely eliminated, a gloom was about Mr.
Spiermont’s otherwise sunny nature, and
with sorrow he regarded his fat pigs.
K/f R* SPIERMONT knew Martini
IVI quite well, Martini Castari, whose
knowledge of English was limited, but
who in some way always managed to
make himself understood. Now that
Italian called to Mr. Spiermont from the
dusk.
Huh. You. Huh. Spiermont, eh 9”
Mr. Spiermont acknowledged Mr
Castari’s presence. Probably Mr. Cas-
tari was having difficulty with his in-
come-tax assessments.
“You want help, eh?” he asked Mr.
Castari.
Help? Help?” Mr. Castari came
closer, shaking his head helplessly with
a sort of sullen anger. Martini Castari
was not one of your volatile or jovial
Italians. He was dark and cold, and
usually silent, his thin lips set in per-
petual stubbornness.
“Help? Help?” he kept muttering.
Lean fingers were thrust at Mr. Spier-
mont. They tapered upwards from some
imaginary base, covered a ball of won-
der with leaves as thin as his nails. He
cocked his head inquiringly.
“Cauliflowers?” said Mr. Spiermont
suddenly. Of course he knew. “Plentv
caulie,” he told Martini with gratitude'
He pointed towards the house, Mrs.
Spiermont and his personal supply of
vegetables.
In cold anger Martini shook his head.
He snorted savagely, grunted angrily,
pointing to the pigs.
“Oh,” said Mr. Spiermont with tre-
mendous relief. “For the pigs, eh?” He
looked with interest upon Mr. Castari.
It was the first time the old fellow had
come good,
D OCO assured Mr. Spiermont he
would collect the caulies. He
seemed highly delighted about the whole
matter. “Old Mister Castari, eh?” he
said. “Old ice-block, eh? I get his caulies
for you, yes. I take Dante.” Roco
swelled with pride,
Dante was, apart from his spray-
irrigation system, Roco’s great delight.
Dante was a white, upstanding gelding,
something of the color of clear moon-
light, but a beast altogether too large for
Roco’s absurd little spring-cart.
Mr. Spiermont said he thought Dante
would do fine. Roco nodded, and then
his eyes became absent, his mind divorced
from Mr. Spiermont’s vegetable-collect-
ing project. The Saturday shoppers,
some of them young Italian women,
were waiting for the bus. Roco’s eyes
were meditative.
When Roco departed the postmaster
decided he could not very much rel\»
upon that Italian, and so, when Toni
sauntered into the post-office, he was filled
with fresh heart. What he dreaded was
losing the opportunity offering in Mr.
Castari’s frost-bitten caulies.
“Look here, Toni,” he told him. “You
get caulies for me from Mr. Castari,
eh?”
“Caulies, eh?” said Toni, and there
was a strange gleam in his eyes, Mr.
Spiermont was surprised by this sudden
interest.
“You take Jerree, eh,” said Mr. Spier-
mont, “and get them now?”
“Bet first,” said Toni conditionally,
“Bet pronto, then caulie, eh?”
And Mr. Spiermont, who hated start-
ing-price bookmakers and their heavy de-
mands upon the telephone system, gladly
placed Toni’s bet, which, as usual, was
doomed to reap no reward.
J ERREE, huge and cumbersome as
Toni in appearance, had none of
Toni’s lightness of step. He lumbered
stolidly the red road to the Castari farm,
and the contrast of Toni’s Jerree and
Roco’s Dante might have been the rea-
son for distinct coldness on the part of
VARIOUS VERSE
The Rose-garden.
Five years since that evening when she
walked
Among the roses in the rosy light —
Malar Ros, Blackboy, Mermaid, Irish
Firefiame,
Shot Silfc, Moonlight, Radiance and
Golden Dawn —
In the glow and glory of their rich spring
blooming.
Birds in the dark inn of the pittosporum-
tree
Stirring wings and voices, settled for the
night,
As she paused to gaze on Climbing
Talisman
Over trellis and wall in lesser sunset
burning.
And it was then she saw the hand slip
through,
Parting the stems heavy with flowers, the
thin
And black-nailed fingers, the veil of dusky
hairs
On pallor of dead skin, the rotting sleeve
Stained from the grave—and waited for
no more.
But walked to the house, not looking
once behind,
Through the scented hush; and tlie soft,
dragging footsteps
Followed, as they have followed these
five years.
In the lighted, talk-filled room that night
I only
Saw what crouched behind her chair. We
know each other
Always, we who have walked in that
company,
But may not speak, lest by naming we
give it power,
Though the heart be twisted, as often
mine, to see
Her smile, holding her head so proudly,
and still
Know that cowled horrpr waiting at her
shoulder.
But these, you will say, were the years
of the great floods
That sucked even at the garden wall, and
there
She fought beside us —did we not see
her ? Friends,
Be sure there was witchcraft here, for,
looking back,
Always I saw her still among the roses —
Her pole face, her bright hair, and that
other following
As the dark star dogs the white,
changeless through heaven,
Though the waters roar, though the
mountains smoke and shake —
And yet, thanks be to God, she is flesh
not star.
Five years is long to a creature of flesh,
long to keep
The haunted eyes from slipping back,
the head
From turning. Soon it must happen',
soon she must break.
I turned myself in the end and lived. The
hand
Of the Lord upheld me, I lived, and I
am free.
Yet who knows if the face is the same
to each who turns?
Without that ending is no beginning, but
the end
Alone is sure, like the naked touch of
death.
This only I dare hope, that after the
petals
Of many spring and many autumn
bloomings
Have fallen to mould, we two may walk
in the garden,
Say, “Here it began, the nightmare that
passed away
Long since with morning,” and laugh,
and with wet cheeks
Praise Him who trod down darkness,
lifted day
So it may happen, after many seasons.
N.S.W.
NAN MgDONALD.
Sonnet.
Ah, lip to lip, from the cocoon of night.
We have at times burst, blazed, like a
butterfly.
This is the act that, arced in colder
light,
Larvae perform beneath the focused sky;
And as the worm goes to it, so do we.
Yet we are locked like bipod-drops in
the shell,
Gather to sing all summer on the tree
As the round note is broken from the
bell.
That ring’s eternity. Ah, see our kiss
Spread like a circle on the night until
All creatures are encompassed in our
bliss:
We are the fish, the swallow and the
pool;
And for the humble moment of a breath.
Hold in our arms the small and turning
earth.
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL.
A Dream of Summer.
On the closed lids’ vermilion screen I
saw
The gilded fishes in a stiff embrace.
And rocking in a shallow sea the curled
And insolent Venus with her summer
face.
On her bright arm a bracelet of little
bells
Chimed, as pearl-thighed she lay and
closely kept
Her secret mouth. Sometimes she waked
and smiled
And sometimes, smiling, slept.
The many-colored winds above her blue
And glittering field saluted and were
gone.
Below in lapis and coral palaces
The gold chain and the circlet were
undone;
But presently from her pale shell she
slipt —
That was both cruel and sweet as the
song tells —
And of her harmonies there was left
alone
And far, a foam of bells.
N.S.W.
Elizabeth Riddell.


the two market-gardeners. The indiffer-
ence which Roco managed with some
effort to simulate was entirely lost upon
bis fat friend.
Had they been honest one would have
accused the other of using Mr. Spier-
mont’s caulies as an excuse to visit Mar-
tini Castari and his daughter Marie. Both
men knew the wonderful legend, fable
almost, of Mister Castari’s beautiful
daughter, and it was a legend which ap-
pealed to their hearts, for it had within it
all the elements of Italian love. A hard
father, a convent-like protection of the
young damsel and riches which were now
fabulous.
Roco, in his temporary loves, even in
the midst of caresses, had given thought
to Marie in her father’s prison, and Toni,
when he had thought of the same Marie,
had given thought to the riches which
would be the daughter’s if ever the father
died. This, he thought regretfully, might
never happen.
No, Martini might never die. That
sad thought was upon them both, but
with it also the thought of adventure.
Here was a chance to penetrate the
fortress, to climb the hill. Ah, the hill
was a tantalising thought to R?>co, whose
own vegetable garden was on a flat cold
in winter and flooded with warmth in
the summer. To Roco this hill was
heaven, near yet unattainable. Martini’s
large house was like a mansion, or a jail,
enchanting beauty.
Roco could see Marie like that,
although, like Toni, he had never
glimpsed the same figure of a thousand
tales, most of them probably apocryphal.
Marie was beautiful. Marie was red of
cheeks, red and warm of lips, her hair
was a thousand blue tresses, and her eye-
brows coal-black and darkly arched,
capable of terrible passion. Marie
languished for love, grew fiercer each day
with intolerable denial.
Marie needed a lover, and who, who
better than Roca? Roco, too, in his
embraces thought of the prisoner Marie,
and the warmth died from his ardor and
he longed to fulfil his own passionate
dreams,
Roco, then, with some reason eyed the
fat, flat-footed Toni. He wondered,
angrily and aloud, why Toni should
bother to keep such a horse, one as flat-
footed and heavy as his master. To
emphasise the matter he turned and
stared proudly at his own Dante, and
the pride of possession was in his eyes.
Toni let flow with a voluble flow of his
own liquid language, in which he told
Roco that Dante would have little
power to pull a decent load of caulies.
Roco was no less voluble in pointing out
that whereas Jerree might be able to pull
a decent load it would not be far, any-
way. This disconcerted Toni a trifle, until
he compared the cubic contents of both
vehicles, not at all to Roco’s advantage.
Their quarrelsome voices were on the air
as they approached Martini Castari’s
house, and Martini heard the enraged
Roco shouting and the delightful Toni
taunting.
THE market-gardener, anxious to have
his caulies pulled so that he might
turn the soil for a spring crop, pondered
a moment the arguing of the two young
men. A hard-headed man, given only
occasionally to hospitality, he drew the
two lovers into his large barn. There,
to their awed delight, they saw six large
casks standing in the shaded gloom of the
cavernous building.
Martini wasted no words. He began
siphoning wine into a large jug, and when
this was filled, high to its wide neck, he
called suddenly, “Angela, you come here.
With glasses.”
Toni smirked when he heard the name
of a girl, and Roco grew suddenly tense.
There was a sound of flustered running,
and a girl, seemingly little more than a
child, appeared. Her hair was fair, and
her eyes were a soft, clear blue.
Toni looked at Roco, and Roco
nodded sadly. They did not care much
for children.
Martini’s face softened somewhat when
he saw Angela. “Just fill the glasses, my
dear,” he said mildly.
Roco, when he had finished one glass
of the grape-juice, stared at the fair-
haired girl, and it was as though there
had been magic in the dark fluid. She
no longer appeared a child, but a woman,
not a young one, but one filled with age,
almost as old as the country Roco could
now scarcely remember, but the aware-
ness of which was suddenly upon him
like a dream revisiting, like unreality be-
come terrifyingly real. Just that, and
Roco lifted the second glass.
Toni stared at her, almost sullenly. He
was not interested in servant-girls, not
particularly, anyway. This Marie he
would see, the lovely Marie who would
like Toni as all girls liked Toni. Yet
even to him Angela seemed so gentle that
he dared not think of her along with other
women. There was no tempest in this
one, no passion, only the lonely blue sea.
Three glasses Martini gave them, and
he judged they would be mellowed
enough to work together so that there
would be no arguments and that his
caulies would go to the postmaster’s pigs.
It was not that he loved Mr, Spiermont,
or his pigs. It was simply that the vege-
tables had failed to mature, and this did
not please old Martini. However, he
would waste no more time with the fool
plants, especially if these two fellows
helped to clear the crop. Next it would
be lettuce. Lettuce never failed.
ROCO set to work with a will, and
Toni, in his slovenly manner, seemed
to cover the ground with surprising
speed. He uprooted the plants with an
ease that made the old market-gardener
regard him with cold interest. Roco he
could see would not toil long. Roco was
the dreaming type, and for them he had
no time.
Roco stared with puzzled glances at the
small Angela, who watched them pluck-
ing the cauliflowers. She stopped to pull
a few herself, an£ Roco noticed how
immature she was. Martini, seeing her
commence working, became suddenly en-
raged. His voice was a snarl when he
told her to go to the house.
“Yes,” said Toni, agreeing a
chuckle and grinning at Roco. “You go
to the house, Angela.” His mimicry was
good. “Go and watch the beautiful
Marie before she is seen.”
Ah, Marie. Roco’s heart became
heavy. The local legends lay darkly
upon him, as though, now, it were his
duty to shatter them and create the great
and gloriops tale of Roco and Marie the
great lovers! Angela became a small
white cloud in a blue sky.
Toni kept up a fire of jokes with him-
self, irritating the tormented Roco. It
semed Toni understood what was in his
friend’s mind. “The glorious Marie,” he
kept saying, as though Roco would never
see Marie, anyway, or anyone for that
matter.
Then their carts were filled. The vege-
tables, frost-tinted to light purple on their
immature leaves, were stacked high, a
mountain of feed for sleek pigs. There
were no more vegetables to be picked.
Toni thought regretfully that he had no
tale to carry away of the miraculous
Marie, and would probably be forced to
invent one. Roco was almost tearful. He
had planned at least to catch a glimpse
of the rich gardener’s daughter, but,
more, he 'had planned to let her catch a
glimpse of himself. The rest he knew
would follow. Her heart would be aflame
for him, and, finally, perhaps when Mr.
Spiermont needed more vegetables from
Martini, then he would have established
contacts. He might even offer her father
some of his own special stock of wine.
Martini, who rarely had occasion to
show hospitality, watched the two men
thoughtfully. Then he shouted “Angela,
bring the key.”
What key it was he did not bother to
explain. The three men waited in silence.
Martini began grumbling when Angela
failed to appear. Roco found himself
curiously looking forward to the appear-
ance of Angela. It was as though he were
unable to remember the original Angela,
the shy girl carrying the glasses and a
wistful sort of mystery. Toni, too, peered
towards the house, but possibly to catch
a glimpse of Marie.
Mr. Castari began twitching at the
lips. Then he shouted angrily “Angela.
At once. Marie Angela, the key,
quickly.”
THE words shocked both Mr. Spier-
mont’s vegetable - carriers. They
dared not exchange glances, nor even
take their gaze from the house. Shortly
afterwards they saw the golden-hau ed gul
tumble down the stone steps and come
running, a large key in her hands. Mar-
tini’s eyes softened at her approach, but
he grumbled, nevertheless.
“Now,” he said shortly, and he disap-
peared into the barn, leaving the two men
standing with the girl.
Toni wasted no time. You Angela,
he asked.
The fair-haired girl viewed him with
some amusement. She shook her head
merrily so that the hair spread like
ripened wheat in the wind. She did not,
however, answer him.
“Marie Angela?” said Roco in a
W Angela did look at him, but with the
same amused indifference. Roco’s heart
froze.
“Thil,” said Martini, and he stood be-
fore them, two long-necked bottles in
his hands.
“Ah,” said Toni joyfully, but Roco
did not feel happy. The laughter of this
girl still whipped about him like the wes-
terly wind that brings the frosts.
Martini, with a careful smile, handed
each man a bottle. He then thanked
them politely for having pulled the vege-
tables. Finally he saw them urge their
sleeping horses into life, their carts
rolling down the long drive to the red-
gravelled road. Angela, behind him,
stared at the men a moment and then
disappeared towards the house.
“Oh! Oh!” Toni was saying, and
his huge hand lovingly grasped the bottle
he had been given, A thousand women
could not compare with this. Ever so
gently he held it, and at times, disregard-
ing his ambling Jerree, he peered through
the colored liquid to the heaven which
shone behind it, golden now, as with a
flush of sunset. Toni was enraptured,
and this rapture he expected would be
shared by Roco. When he saw Roco’s
set face he began chuckling. “Rich one,
eh?” he asked. “The rich Marie, the little
girl, eh? Only the leetle one.” He
giggled in his fat chins, and then, after a
time, he said “What care, anyway?” and
laughed again.
a\\T HAT care?” echoed Roco, too,
VV who was at a loss to know his
own feeling. He gradually emerged
from his rich world of beautiful melan-
choly, and in his hand was a long-neck
treasure. He gazed at it, just a trifle wist-
fully, and then a gentle smile spread over
his face, the smile of a dreamer awaken-
ing, the beauty of the dream haunting
somewhat, but for all that the world of
reality about very comforting. Again he
regarded the bottle.
“Tonight, Toni,” he said happily.
“Tonight, Roco,” agreed Toni.
“Giddup, Dante,” said Roco.
“Jerree! ” shouted Toni.
And Roco, his Dante leading the
way towards the postmaster’s fat and lazy
pigs, decided that perhaps, when the two
bottles were consumed and they had sung
the songs of Angela’s homeland and they
had forgotten Marie for other red-lipped
creatures, when they had told tales of
love and conquest, then in the flush of
their triumph they would pass Mr. Spier-
mont’s house and even, perhaps, throw
stones on the roof of his iron fodder-
shed. Yes, Roco thought joyfully, that
would be a last defiant gesture com-
pletely erasing the mysterious and soul-
searing encounter with the child Marie.
PENNY RYE
By
DAVID ROWBOTHAM.
DANIEL RYE used to make coffins.
He made sufficient of them in his
morose little shop in Swinton-
street to get enough money together
to buy the poultry-farm he had set his
heart on the day he made a coffin for
Mrs. Rye. He had only one child, a
daughter, hopefully christened Penelope
and called, more attractively, Penny.
Penny Rye was a very pretty girl and
a very good girl. She was eighteen when
her father moved out of town into the
neighboring country shire, and she com-
manded and wrecked, in marvellous
ignorance, the heart of every boy in the
district. In the town she had blushed
unseen ; on the farm she bloomed into a
lovely thing, beautifully proportioned
and empty-headed. Her beauty quite
made up for her lack of intelligence, how-
ever, and she seemed to feel no sense of
incompleteness.
The parson noticed it, of course, for
Penny was prettily incompetent as a
Sunday-school teacher; but she was the
epitome of goodness, so on that account
was allowed to continue to confuse the
kindergarten tots by mixing up all their
pleasant little prayers. She didn’t do it
often, admittedly, but once is enough
with that kind of thing.
WHEN Tom Denison came to work
for Daniel Rye it was inevitable
that he should fall in love with his
daughter. Tom “voted,” belonged to
respectable Methodist parents in town
and liked outdoor work. When Daniel
offered to pay him no more than what
he expected though considerably less
than he had wished for, Tom instantly
accepted, stealing an incredulous look at
the goddess down in the fowlyard.
Tom had heard of Penny Rye, but be-
cause he had never seen her he couldn’t
understand why all the fellows allowed
themselves to be enslaved by her.
Mick O’Neil started sneaking into the
Methodist church on Sunday nights. He
practically martyred himself for love,
sticking it out for one legendary month.
But Penny’s smiling indifference and a
chat with Father Meegan suddenly
brought an end to it all.
Fred Sinnet became a teacher in the
Sunday school. He had to stop drinking
and be converted in order to manage
this; but manage it he did, until the
Sunday when, not long after instructing
his class in their catechism, he was dis-
covered blubbering over the horse-trough.
As Mr. Wickham, the parson, religiously
put it, God is the only one who knows
how he got so drunk on a Sunday.
CAM WICKHAM, the parson’s
prodigal son, took a sudden interest
in fowls and made extended visits to the
Rye place to admire the White Leghorns,
the Black Orpingtons and the Rhode
Island Reds—and Penny Rye. He seemed
to be getting along all right until the day
the “ducky” Leghorn went for him. She
upset Cam so much that, in the local
vernacular, he did his block and wrung
the chook’s neck.
As the brutal murderer of the mother
of eleven he was compelled to turn his
back on the Rye household for ever.
However, the consistent failure of other
suitors did not deter Tom, and in the
course of his campaign he never made
a mistake. He shunned church, drank
fitfully but thoroughly, made guttural
sounds at the fowls in Penny’s presence,
avoided her eyes but not her company
as much as possible and managed in a
few weeks to prompt her into a state of
curiosity she could not control.
ONE afternoon as Tom stood near her
scattering corn at the fowls under-
neath the pepperina-tree. Penny timidly
touched his arm. Tom looked at the
tingling spot, followed the line of a pretty
finger to the curve of a provocative elbow
and slowly raised his eyes to a pair of
blue bewildered ones.
He gulped, let go the corn-sack, took
possession of a yielding waist, drew it and
all that it was attached to behind the
and masterfully kissed two un-
educated but wonderful lips.
A frightened voice said, “No. No.”
Tom went on kissing and the fowls
went on feeding, probing at the aban-
doned sack for more corn. Christmas-
beetles whirred in the pepperina-tree and
the rooster chased a hen somewhere be-
hind the shed.
The sun dropped about ten degrees.
“Will you marry me?” croaked a voice
that startled the fowls. The answer re-
assured them.
“No,” said Penny Rye.
“Surely, Simpson, you must know SOMETHING about re-bristling
toothbrushes !”


♦Sis MblV
° r o STO^
BABCOCK-DETROIT
SPREADER STOKER
3
Sii
.
■
*>*
TOP—Side view of Babcock-Detroit
BotoStoker with power dumping
grate.
BOTTOM—Sectional view of Bab-
cock-Detroit BotoStoker.
For Medium and
Moderate Sized
Industrial Installations
The Babcock-Detroit Roto-
Stoker is supplied with
either hand or mechanically
operated dumping grate,
and is employed mainly for
medium and moderate
sized industrial installations.
This stoker has been
demonstrated as capable of
handling a very wide range
of fuels, including bitum-
inous, sub-bituminous coals
and lignites, brown coal
and mixtures of coke and
coal.
One of its main advantages is its suitability in plants
where the type or quality of coal delivered varies from
time to time.
As suppliers of all types of firing equipment, whether
for pulverised fuel, oil fuel, other mechanical types of
stokers, or any other known firing method, Babcocks
have the experience necessary to advise on the right
equipment most suitable and economical to your needs.
d
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS
HEAD OFFICE & WORKS REGENTS PARK, N.S.W.
Branch Offices and Agencies in all States
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON 4
osuiuvaa
Trade mark
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS ! : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“.TACKSUL,” BRISBANE
SUNDRY SHOWS
McMaster's "Othello."
The Stratford - on - Avon
players’ “Othello” at Melbourne
Princess was a very fine per-
formance.
Physically Anew McMaster
was not an impressive Othello.
He was any old Moor you migHt
see about the streets, but •he
seemed to know the immortal
figure from within. He
seemed able to put himself in-
side his subject and make you
feel his perplexities and anguish,
and as the play proceeded the
impression deepened until at the
final denouement you were as
much in emotional rags and
tatters as Othello. He made you
feel that the Moor was in such
A state that he couldn’t have
thought himself out of a paper-
bag, much less the common-
place intrigues and stratagems
of lago. His final strangling of
Desdemona was horrific. He
has a shrill voice but can modu-
late it on occasion, as in the
writing scene where his lady
tries to reason with him.
The interplay of feeling be-
tween Othello and Desdemona
was finely handled. Daphne
Slater, a slight slip of a girl, who
could easily have been missed
among the supers, made pathos
seem pathetic. She was like a
white chip on the stormy waters
of Othello’s murderous passions.
The lago of Paul Stephenson
was not the fell, biting, bitter
villain of tradition. He looked
rather a nice young man whose
words belied him. John Harri-
son made Cassio the feeble
pawn he should be. The prac-
tical Emilia, who, having no in-
tellect to speak of, can see
what’s going on better than any
other person, was well done by
Dorothy Wheatley, and Mel-
bourne actor Peter O’Shaugh-
nessy turned in a good perform-
ance as Montano, the Governor
of Cyprus.
"The Kiwis/ 1
“The Kiwis,” whose' activi-
ties have been enthusiastically
reviewed on this page from
time to time, opened at Sydney
Empire last week, and, if the
applause of a crowded house is
any indication, they appear to
have entrenched themselves
very securely at that address.
Their main attraction is that they
manage to combine professional
polish with an amateur en-
thusiasm that quickly ingratiates
them with an audience.
The present reviewer, with no
great affection for ersatz females,
was forced to unqualified
admiration of the impersona-
tions of John v Hunter, Wally
Prictor and Phil Jay. Mr.
Hunter is perhaps the most re-
markable of the trio—he dances
as lightly and gracefully as a
ballerina, plays quite capably on
his own the two characters from
the balcony scene in “Private
Lives” and plays the feminine
half of some comic business with
Glen Millins so' effectively that
it is almost a ehsappointment to
see him revealed as a man at
the final curtain. Phil Jay
turns in a strikingly accurate
caricature as the Duchess at
the Little Puddlecombe concert
party, and Wally Prictor does
likewise as the headmistress on
speech night at St. Chad’s school
for girls.
Probably the cleverest item
on the current programme is
the caricature “Professor Leo-
pold Popowski” conducting the
Kiwi Orchestra. As a stretch
of»pure clowning, with a laugh in
every gesture, the act is a gem.
Stan Wineera, the main
comedian, is a diminutive comic
who makes the most of a pair of
wide roving eyes; some of his
army jokes have the friendly
familiarity of the old hat fur-
felt hanging on the back porch,
but they’re none the worse for
that. In the rest of the bill,
“Songs of the Maori Battalion,”
“Three Clarinets” and Cecil
Morris’s conjuring with an
apparently inexhaustible supply
of cigarettes stand out along
with the excellent sets and
costuming.
Red Cross Show.
Paintings at David Jones’s
Art Gallery, Sydney, donated by
artists and others, will be sold
under a ballot system, proceeds
to the Red Cross. It is not the
intention of this page to praise,
specifically, the Red Cross or
the donors. Art criticism has,
after all, only the slightest rela-
tionship with charity.
The exhibition, however, is
surprisingly good. John Elder-
shaw’s' “The Veterans” is cer-
tainly a wonderful five-guineas’
worth. A full rich watercolor
of a tree poised between blue
sky and red earth, it is remark-
able for the infpression of
mingled knotted strength,
solidity, vivid light and green
growth ;' painted with a loving
realism, yet a dramatisation of
the elements of a tree —earth,
light and the magic of symmetry.
Ronald Steuart’s “Lonely
Afternoon,” a very welcome de-
parture from his recent experi-
ments in abstraction, is a fine
watercolor of beach, huts and
stones, a misty sky and a
shrunken, slightly surrealistic
sun, Robert Johnson’s “Mur-
rumbidgee Banks” is a large
landscape in his best style, with
no sentimentality and a kind of
harsh force. H. A. Hanke has
a “Pirate Study” roaring in song,
and A. Dattilo-Rubbo has one
painting in particular, “Joan,”
which is vital and strong.
A Lance Solomon “Land-
scape” is hung too high to be
seen at its best, but through a
dazzle of sunlight it appears as
a charming, rather lovely little
piece of work, an unusual
Solomon pattern of dark trees.
Hanging side by side are two
paintings of Queensland: Ken-
neth Mac Queen’s “The Five
Mile Paddock” and another
Eldershaw. The Eldershaw is
descriptive of a type of country
—red rocks, blue skies and trees
—in a bold, free and distin-
guished style. “Five Mile Pad-
dock” is remote from Mac-
Queen’s usual patterns, yet re-
cognisably springs from and is
an improvement on them. There
is no rigidity, and the open
paddock is drenched, trembling
and ringing with light.
Among the drawings “Arab
Boy,” by Hilda Rex Nicholas
(donated by B. J. Waterhouse),
attracts attention with its vivid
delicacy, and Roland Strasser
has some interesting “Bali Girls.”
A Dobell pen-sketch is of no
value except, perhaps, as a
souvenir. In the etchings there
is a fine Squire Morgan, “Tea-
trees.”
G. K. Townshend’s landscape
is a watercolor of quality, typi-
cally clean, swept, and sombre,
and Gordon Esling and Garrett
Kingsley have pleasant land-
scapes,
“Cooham -on - Thames,” by
Fred Leist (donated by knight
Marcus Clark), “Place au The-
atre Mont Martre” by F. A.
Booth (donated by Mr. J. R.
McGregor) and two Will Ash-
tons, also donated by Mr. Mc-
Gregor, are Worthy of atten-
tion, as are “Russell’s Place,”
by Leonard Long, “The Barn on
Rogan’s Hill,” by Yvonne du
Moulin, “Goulburn Landscape,”
by John D. Moore, an E. A.
Harvey landscape donated by
John D. Moore, and, for a touch
of character not entirely
smothered by paint, P. Hae-
fliger’s “Young Girl.”
Tickets are sold at £5 ss. each,
in equal ratio to the number of
pictures, and each ticket entitles
the purchaser to select one ex-
hibit. The ballot will be held
on Friday, February 11, and
preference in selection will be
governed by the order in which
the tickets are drawn.
Rawicz and Landauer.
Duo-pianism, which in Aus-
tralia has been saved from ex-
tinction mainly by the deter-
mined and skilful efforts of
Frank Hutchens and Lindley
Evans, should receive a fillip
from the visit of the duettists
Rawicz and Landauer. At their
Sydney recitals they revealed
not only a glittering technique
but a lively appreciation of the
possibilities for two-piano work
of light classical pieces, some of
the shorter serious works not
necessarily written originally for
the piano.
The pianists obviously have a
particular affection for the
Viennese waltz of Johann
Strauss, Two of these —“The
Voices of Spring” and “The
Tritsch-Tratsch Polka” —w ere
given with a feet-itching
rhythm and a dovetailing of
trills and runs that were fascinat-
ing both to see and hear.
One of the most attractive
transcriptions—the pair have
transcribed every piece they
play, often with great ingenuity
—was Sarasate’s “Zigeuner-
weisen.” These gipsy airs are
mostly heard as a violin solo,
but the arrangements lay re-
markably well for two key-
boards, and little of the E string
figurations are lost in the pro-
cess. Dvorak’s Slavonic Dance
No. 1 and Liszt’s 12th Hun-
garian Rhapsody had restrained
strength and no little dignity.
It was not until De Falla’s
“Ritual Fire Dance” was played
that the full dynamics of both
instruments were fully demon-
strated, the crashing chords of
the last phase bringing out all
the barbaric splendors of this
showpiece,
Rawicz, as well as being able
to caress the keys with a feather-
touch to gain the most delicate
effects, as in Liadov’s “Music
Box” —a very clever bit of
simulation . and Chopin’s
Waltz in E Flat, also plays with
a vigor that makes Rugby seem
like a gentle game. To Landauer
falls most of the filigree work
for which his nimble digits are
admirably adapted.
Andrea Chenier.
Andrea Chenier, poet, patriot
and dreamer, arrives from Con-
stantinople in time for the ball
being held in the chateau of
the Countess de Coigny in the
first act of Umberto Giordano’s
opera, presented on Saturday
night at Sydney Tivoli, and also
for the first rumblings of the
French Revolution. His poet’s
eye takes in the Countess’s lovely
daughter Maddelina, but he at
once displays the hopelessness
of his case as a hero when, to
the despair of the Ancient Order
of Lovers, the humorless fellow
when coquettishly asked by the
lady to improvise on a theme of
love, launches instead into an
impassioned philippic against
all aristos.
Up to this stage any Com-
rade would shout Marxian
hosannas for one who has so
faithfully followed the “party
line.” But in the second act
Andrea makes the tactical
blunder of pinking his revo-
lutionary boss in a duel as to
who shall have the damsel, and
two acts later the spinner of in-
different jingle is, with his Mad-
delina for self-chosen company,
on his way in a tumbril to have
his cervical vertebrae massaged
by the National Barber.
By a strange chance, this last
offering of the season, melodi-
ously the least attractive, brought
out some of the best singing
Sydney has heard in years.
Raffael Lagares’ robust tenor
rang with splendid power in all
his numbers except the first;
Germana di Giulio’s dramatic
soprano, limpid and charged
with well-simulated passion,
matched the tenor’s for carrying
power. Basiola’s baritone coped
adequately with the role of the
vengeful Gerard, and Cassinelli’s
basso rolled threateningly as II
Ramanziero. Maestro Wolff-
Ferrari handled his instrumental
forces with discretion.
"Oliver Twist."
This British screen version, by
David Lean, of Dickens’s im-
mortal story, released at Mel-
bourne Regent and Sydney
Embassy, made the audience
feel, and that is all that can
be asked of a producer. It made
them feel so much at times that
they laughed in the wrong
places. The form is melodrama,
but it is what is put into the
form that is important. The
long arm of coincidence is
stretched to bring the workhouse
waif back to his grandfather,
but the characterisation is so
good that that isn’t noticed.
Dickens described the world
he lived in, and it was a world
where virtuous Judges solemnly
sentenced children to hanging or
transportation for stealing a
humble “wipe” and where boards
of respectable well-fed citizens
starved orphans in workhouses.
The film describes that world
without any overstatement, and
some of its most effective fea-
tures are the architecture of the
vast, gloomy workhouse, the
slums of London with St. Paul’s
shining symbolically in the back-
ground and the academy for the
education of young gentlemen
in the art of thieving run by the
terrifying Mr. Fagin.
Oliver’s struggles to maintain
hjmself in this world become an
absorbingly emotional busihess,
and the nine-year-old John
Howard Davies plays the part
to perfection. The Fagin of
Alec Guinness is an impressive
figure. It has a touch of the
universal about it, as has the
Bill Sikes of Robert Newton and
also Bill’s dog, done by a dog
which deserves an academy
award or something. Mr.
Bumble comes to life in the
enormous figure of the heavily-
breathing Francis Sullivan, and
the Artful Dodger of Anthony
Newley is a first-class portrait —
but Fagin’s pupils are all good.
Nancy, the wretched associate
of Bill Sikes, is brilliantly done
by Kay Walsh.


LONDON and BIRMINGHAM
BRITISH INDUSTRIES FAIR
fd
Every year, from over 100 countries, trade
buyers gather at the British Industries Fair.
The Chamber of Commerce in Birmingham,
and manufacturers from every part of Britain, join with
the Government of the United Kingdom to welcome them.
At B I F 1 949, from 2-1 3 May, 3000 exhibitors will display
the latest developments in thirty groups of allied trades.
The leading men of international commerce are invited to
attend the world’s greatest assembly of national products.
2-13 MAY 1949
TRADE BUYERS —PLAN YOUR VISIT NOW
Information about exhibitors, special displays and facilities at
the Fair can be obtained from the United Kingdom Trade
Commissioner at Canberra, Sydney, Melbourne or Brisbane;
or the Imperial Trade Correspondent at Adelaide or Perth.
Public Notice.
I, ACHELLA FASSA, of Greek nation-
ality, bom at Chalcis, Greece, and resi-
dent 44 years in Australia, now resid-
ing at 220 Goulburn Street, Sydney, in-
tend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality and Citizenship Act 1948.
Sores caused by
chafing napkins
are soon healed by Cuticura
Ointment. Stops itching
and irritation and assures
undisturbed sleep. Anti*
septic , Cuticura cannot
harm baby’s tender skin.
One of the famous trio —
Cuticura Ointment. • Soap
and Talcum I’owder. 534
f
TPM
mm
iteaWS
r<
rrnvMuuuuTWHwyrgti
jtriimuuTnuuH^
wuiiiwmrv^'iTtgm
/I|7ll DOUBLE LIFE
IjLM BLADES
It stands to reason that the sturdy, heavy
weight Gem Blade of surgical steel will
take a keener edge and give double the
number of shaves you would get from a
wafer.
uH
TO
€54
Gem blades are super
keen for super shaving.
Make every morning a
good morning with Gem.
Avori"' k §&cco6i^ : 'VsM*oew :
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
With their eyes scarcely dry from
mourning their losses at Caulfield
the previous week, bookmakers were
soon in tears again at Moonee
Valley on Saturday. Success of
favorites in the first two races
notched up a string of seven con-
secutive winning favorites, which, as
any bookie can tell you, and few
punters will ever realise, is in the
nature of a miracle. Moreover, two
other favorites won during the after-
noon.
First race was the Keysborough
Welter, run over the unusual distance
(for a welter) of 13 furlongs; though
the favorite, as mentioned, did win,
it was touch and go. Punters were
interested in only two horses —Real
Guy (W. Williamson) and Mokan;
they started at 6 to 4 and 2 to 1
respectively. The race seemed all
over bar the shouting when, about
three furlongs from home, Mokan
dashed to the front while, at the same
instant, Real Guy struck a bad check
and dropped back to near-last. How-
ever, Real Guy recovered, staged a
spectacular run round the turn to
catch Mokan near the distance, and
won by half a length. When favorite
Kenloof (R. Dean) then won the
Marraont Hurdle, the rush to the
Wailing Wall commenced.
As suggested here last week, Comic
Court’s fourth in the six-furlongs
Barton Handicap at Caulfield in-
dicated an early win. With Purtell
up, the Derby winner was asked to
carry 9.7 in Moonee Valley’s mile
Devonshire Handicap, conceding
other three-year-olds 101 b. and up-
ward, but he started favorite at 5 to 2
on and won as he pleased. High Tar
and Rocket Gun, next to the winner
in the weights, filled the places.
One of the early fancies for the
Oakleigh Plate, the Sydney visitor
Cognac badly blotted his copy-book
with a weakish fourth in the six-
furlongs Chelsea Handicap. A very
speedy front-runner, he had only a
featherweight to carry and should
have lasted out longer than merely
to the turn, at which point Prince
Curl and Dumfries had run past him;
Dumfries, who started favorite, went
on to win comfortably from Prince
Curl, while Assam* under a steadier
of 9st., was an impressive third.
Running an excellent race at a dis-
tance not his meat, Carbon Copy
showed that he is ready to reproduce
his excellent form of the Spring.
Some of the experts who fancy
that they can judge a close finish
accurately from positions at an angle
to the finishing line came a nasty
cropper when they besieged the
bookies after Rover’s Mark (A.
Breasley) and El Latada had passed
the judge locked together at the finish
of the Sturt Handicap for two-year-
olds, Some, evidently possessing
more L.S.D. than 1.Q., laid as
much as 100 to 3 on El Latada and
sneered knowingly at the odds of
10 to 1 offered against the other.
The camera gave it to Rover’s Mark
by a short half-head.
The 10-furlongs Malua Handicap
was a regular donnybrook from
to whoa, and the five-year-old Caith-
ness mare Heather Rose (R. Hutchin-
son) turned in a very fine Performance
to win after striking more than her
share of the abundant interference.
She produced a brilliant run ap-
proaching the turn, had reached the
front as they straightened up and
ran away from the field in the
straight. After also striking a fair
deal of strife, Monte Cassmo finished
second—his fourth consecutive minor
pladng * *' *
At Rosehill on Saturday,- punter
and bookie alike stewed in a sweltei-
ing Turkish-bath atmosphere; the
difference was that as the afternoon
progressed punters began to enteitam
visions of walking home, whereas
who ever heard of a bookie walking
home? When things got too bad
they have been known to run.
An interesting winner at Rosehill
was the aged Rampion mare Blue
Tulip, who, in pretty good style, de-
feated Exalted and Davalomarne m
the Flying Handicap (7f.)—-the best
race the mare has won in a long ana
varied career. Blue Tulip must be
one of the most travelled horses rac-
ing in Sydney at present, and has
probably seen a good deal more ot
N.S.W. than 90 per cent of the
people who watched her win on.
Saturday. She has raced at Forbes,
Orange, Parkes, Cowra, Narromine,
Condobolin, Wyong and Newcastle,
as well as at Moorefield, Canterbury,
Rosehill and Randwick.
The winner’s cut of £560 plus
sweepstakes for Saturday’s race was
rather a contrast to some of Blue
Tulip’s earlier earnings. At her first
start as a three-year-old in 1944 she
ran third in a maiden race at Forbes,
opening her stakes account with an
entry of £l. At subsequent starts
that season she won a maiden at
Orange (£10), was twice unplaced,
ran second at Orange (£3), and second
at Parkes (£2) —a total of £l6 in
stakes for a season’s racing; it costs
£5 a week to have a horse trained in
Sydney.
Trainer D. Lewis, who is a dabster
with stayers, landed a nice double
when Plausible (W. Fellows) took the
Auburn Mixed Stakes and Royal Lad
the Rosehill Handicap; distance of
both races was 10 furlongs. Plausible,
a four-year-old son of Talking, should
win better races; he beat Grecian by
three lengths and cut out the trip in
race-record time of 2.5 F Royal Lad
was one second slower in winning
his race against open company.
Royal Lad was ridden by the prac-
tically unknown apprentice J. Camp-
bell, who claimed a 71b. allowance
and may have been the reason for
the horse starting at the comparatively
good odds of 5 to 2.
Particularly impressive in winning
the Maiden for two-year-old colts
and geldings was the Ajax colt
Achilles (F. Uickey), finishing on
strongly to defeat the favorite
Acquittal by a half length. A fine-
looking colt, Achilles cost 2300
guineas as a yearling and looks likely
to repay it. Bookmakers must have
had some inkling of his ability; he
opened in the betting at eights, but
there were few takers and he quickly
drifted to 25 to 1.
A Sydney trainer last week made
the rather surprising statement that
he considered Mixed Stakes very hard
races for three-year-olds to win. The
shorter Mixed Stakes at least they
have actually been winning con-
sistently almost from the first meet-
ing of the season. In both divisions
of Saturday’s Parramatta Mixed (7f.)
three-year-olds finished _ first and
second. Amar (R. Selkrig) defeated
Veiled Art in the first Parramatta;
the second was won by Crown Street,
while another three-year-old in Blue
Flag dead-heated with Messenger for
second money. Crown Street was
ridden by N. Sellwood, who also took
the Welter on Deed and the Two-
year-old Maiden (fillies) on Primrose.
“Keep going, Bertha. I've got you!"
For Randwick (before accept-
ances) :
Collingwood Nursery: Cypriote, 1;
Joy Court, 2; Ambitious, 3. Ingle-
burn Juvenile: Tantalus, 1; Royal
Fox, 2; Brushwood, 3. Three-year-
old: Laughter, 1; Amar, 2; New-
borough, 3. Berala Novice: Grey
Phantom, 1; Grecian, 2; Firearm, 3.
Glenfield Handicap: Skip Court, 1;
Heroic Sovereign, 2; Caruso, 3.
Warwick February Handicap: Aval-
anche, 1; Mentone, 2; High Ideals 3.
Sunnybrook Handicap; Lone Duke,
1; Souvenir, 2; Uranium, 3.
♦ ♦ * •
Bedecked with every known variety
of fishing gear, the Sporting Editor
slid down the back stairs last week
intent upon*wetting a line somewhere
,up the far north coast of N.S.W.
On Friday the Religious Editor was
appalled to note in “S.M.H.” the
reported capture at Berowra, on the
Hawkesbury, of “a fish with a head
like a cat, four legs complete with
claws, green eyes and fur even
whiskers. Its throat was chequered
like a chessboard.” Relief came in
the shape of a note from the Sporting
Editor reporting himself safely in-
stalled at a point 300 miles north of
Berowra.
* * * *
Competing in the N.S.W. women’s
championships at the Sydney Sports
Ground on Saturday, Mrs. Blankers-
Koen had a taste of a brand of Aus-
tralian weather that has beaten many
visiting athletes —hot and steamingly
humid. That, plus an injured leg,
may have contributed to her defeat
by Marjorie Jackson in the 100-metres
invitation race, but at the same time
all credit to the 17-year-old Lithgow
(N.S.W.) girl, who put up a fine
performance to win by a yard in the
Australian record time of ll.Ssec.
Miss Jackson also won the 100yds.
junior title in 10.95ec., and helped
Lithgow win the 880yds. medley relay.
* * * *
The Lawn Tennis Association has
decided to challenge for the Davis
Cup this year, which it should do;
it has decided to challenge in the
American zone, which it should not.
Last year’s challenge in the American
zone was a dead loss financially
what’s worse, it was incurred in terms
of dollars —and there is no reason
why this year should not see a repeat
performance. In the minor countries
encountered in the American zone
there simply isn’t any general public
interest in tennis.
The team named seems a good
choice, or, at least, the best avail-
able —Sidwell, Sedgman and, Brom.
willing, Bromwich. If Bromwich is
not available the others are to go as
a two-man team. Young Sedgman
thoroughly deserves his place; he
should have been chosen last year.
He surprised even his most ardent
admirers by easily beating the wily
Bromwich for the Australian singles
title last week, and he is the only
one of our" leading players who is
continually improving his game.
Bromwich and Quist were in action
at White City (Sydney) on Saturday,
playing Brown-Sidwell in the post-
poned final of the N.S.W. men’s
doubles championship; the veterans
won in a five-set match. Making a
farewell appearance the American
visitor, Doris Hart, beat Joyce Fitch
5-7, 6-3, 6-2 in an exhibition singles.
Presenting Miss Hart with a trophy
after the match, N-S.W.L.T.A. presi-
dent, Bryan Fuller, paid Joyce Fitch
a rather backhanded compliment,
congratulating her upon having taken
two sets from Doris Hart during the
latter’s visit here.
For those with an eye to the
future the most significant player
seen at White City was a pint-sized
bundle of tennis talent named Ken
Rosewall. Aged just 14, standing a
shade over sft. and scaling 7.7,
Rosewall was overshadowed in size
by other junior players in an exhibi-
tion doubles, but he was the best
player on the court.
• « • • •
Ken was brought up in a tennis
atmosphere, his father formerly run-
ning public courts in Sydney, and he
holds the N.S.W. and Metropolitan
under-15 singles titles. Good in all
departments, his strongest asset is a
beautifully produced, powerful and
very accurate backhand.
* * * *
Sheffield Shield :
The N.S.W. v. Victoria clash in
Sydney was typical of other years,
when bowlers were wont to get some-
thing to show for their efforts. In
four days 40 wickets crashed for 806
runs—the poorest aggregate in a com-
pleted Shield match this season. With
a lead of 64 runs on the first innings
N.S.W. scratched up 221 in their
second knock and left the visitors
220 minutes in which to get 286.
The Victorians were well on the way
to doing so, but the tail-enders made
a poor showing and the last wicket
fell at 197 —a win for N.S.W. by 88
runs. Fast bowlers on both sides
had good bags—Walker eight for 100
and Lindwall six for 93 for N.S.W.;
W. Johnston eight for 109 and Lam-
bert seven for 111 for Victoria.
The win gave N.S.W. a firm grip
on the Shield. The ’Wylers have
won all six matches (three outright
and three on the first innings) to
score 24 points (av. 80 p.c.); S.A.
has 12 points (60 p.c.), Victoria 12
points (48 p.c.), and Queensland 8
points (26.66 p.c.). Westralia, holder
of the Shield, looks like trailing the
field! home this year. Against South
Australia last week the Westerners
took a thorough hiding, beaten by
an innings and 86 runs; S.A. 419 —
W.A. 202 and 131. It was the
heaviest defeat of this season’s series,
and would have been infinitely worse
but for two good stands by Watt,
who scored 58 and 56.
The Westralians then moved on to
Melbourne, where they were soon
headed for trouble against Victoria.
With Turner (drinks-carrier in four
matches this season) brightening up
the tail-end with an excellent 96,
Victoria knocked up 364. At stumps
on Saturday Westralia had lost eight
wickets for 200 —15 runs short of a
follow-on,
* * * *
Though the official verdict was a
draw, there seemed little doubt that
George Sands (10.64) had quite com-
fortably defeated Joe Webster (10.3)
in their Leichhardt bout. Treating
Webster’s punches with faint con-
tempt, Sands landed a procession of
solid swings with each hand, and a
particularly heavy left-right-left had
Webster wobbling in the fourth
round. In the fifth round Webster’s
eyebrow was gashed, and he saved
himself from a k.o. only by resorting
to holding tactics. The crowd made
no bones about their opinion of the
draw decision.


'O# 1
Your choice t* CINZANO
Vermoulli, whether your taste is for
«weet or dry. CINZANO Vermouth
gives just that extra exhilarating tang
to the palate.
df
Pm
■Saw
***r
SaA*<, w-C&b
GIOBITI
TRAVEL CASES
Hiey re lighter, stronger, longer*
lasting. That's why a Globite
costs less In the long run.
df
DDI^E
are (inked
Greater!
Silldd
How you con help to control
the one by building up the other
As everyone knows, prices of many goods to-day are much higher
han formerly. There are various reasons for this: lack of raw materials,
shortages of labour, the high cost of imported materials. Those are three of
many, and it will take time to overcome their effects . . . But there’s
' one problem which can be attacked immediately if every Australian
will help—the problem of controlling prices by making
available supplies go further.
When there are not enough goods of a
/ certain type for everyone who wants them, prices tend
to rise. But if competition for such goods were to cease, prices
could be more easily stabilised.
Every thinking Australian will realise that the wise course to
follow these days is one of saving, of buying nothing but absolute
essentials. By doing so, they will not only help to overcome /
present shortages, but the money they save will
go further and buy better
\ later on.
Save
TO LINK-UP WITH
THE FUTURE YOU WANT
SAVE THIS WAY
1. Buy only what you really need.
Avoid luxuries. Get full value.
2. Buy for cash always.
3. Settle your debts then pay
your way.
4. Join a National Savings Group.
5. Build up your Savings Bank
Account.
6. Invest in Commonwealth Loans.
7. Increase your life assurance.
mrmr
Personal.
FRAZER, Marion. —WOULD the next-of-
kin of MARION FRAZER, widow, who
died at Potts Point on 19th July, 1947,
communicate with the PUBLIC TRUS-
TEE, 19 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy books on home manu-
facture of neckties.—4552.
To trace Ron Williams, NX202246,
who once lived at Bathurst, N.S.W. —■
4553.
To buy Winnie the Pooh by A. A.
Milne.—4554.
Information Sought.
(1) What is the carbide method of
destroying trees? (2) Will it destroy
poplar trees and their root-system ?
(1) Bore a half-inch hole about
4in. in to the base of the tree, fill
the hole with carbide and plug it.
Sap will cause the carbide to burn
and the tree will die within a few
days. (2) It should get rid of the
poplar trees, but as the suckers are
often self-rooted it will be necessary
to dig them out as they appear. The
carbide is hardly likely to affect these
in any way. If the trees are of the
deciduous type apply the carbide
when the leaves are falling and the
sap is going down; the other types
can be treated at any time.
* * * *
Does polishing the induction mani-
fold internally have any effect on the
performance of a sports car, and, if
so, is there any practical method of
doing the job without using a flexible
burnisher ?
A smooth and polished interior of
the intake manifold is desirable in
all high-effjciency motors, as it per-
mits a free flow of gas without eddy
currents and loss due to skin fric-
tion. The process of polishing can
be done quite effectively by dismant-
ling the induction manifold, half-
filling with lead shot, and, after stop-
ping up each end, shaking vigorously
for fifteen to twenty minutes. This
will fill up inequalities in the casing
and give a bright, smooth surface.
* * * *
Method of protecting fence-posts?
Creosote is recommended against
fungi, termites and borers. Fence-
posts should be stood in empty 40
gal. oil-drums which are then almost
filled with a two-to-one mixture 6f
creosote and crude oil. Light a fire
under each drum and heat its con-
tents to 210 deg. F., taking care that
the inflammable stuff does not spill.
Four hours later the mixture is al-
lowed to cool, but the posts should
be left in the cool creosote and oil
for a few hours. Instead of “boil-
ing” the posts for four hours fencers
may dip posts into the heated mix-
ture for a time, then haul them out
and immerse for four hours in
another bath of cold creosote and
oil. This second method is risky to
the operator. Houseblocks, piles and
fence-posts already planted in the
ground should be painted with creo-
sote and kerosene (equal parts).
More than one painting is usually
required, and be sure to get a brand
of creosote that will mix with kero-
sene.
* * * *
What is the derivation of the names
of our months?
The names of our months come
from the Romans; January, Feb-
ruary and March being named after
the god Janus, the goddess Februa
and the god Mars. April gets its
name from the verb aperire, “to
open,” being the month in which
most trees and flowers bloomed.
May and June are called after Maia
and Juno, and July and August after
Julius Cresar and Emperor Augustus.
The remaining four come from
Roman numerals and refer to the
seventh, eighth, ninth and tenth
months in the old Roman calendar.
* * * ♦
How deep are the foundations of
the Empire State Building in New
York, and have steps been taken to
measure its sway in high winds?
The building is computed to weigh
300,000 tons, and rests on 200 col-
umns carried to rock at a depth of
50ft. below the sub-basement floor.
An elaborate system of wind-bracing
was adopted, and the building was
also equipped with instruments at
various floors for the measurement of
wind stresses. A vertical telescope
instrument known as a “collihator”
was installed for the purpose of
gauging the degree of sway.
* * * *
(1) Information on diet for horses
in sugar country? (2) Medicine to
counteract effects of faulty diet?
The diet of most horses in the cane
country —chop-chop, molasses and
pollard— repeatedly produces chronic
dyspepsia, and on this diet horses
are likely to get all sorts of digestive
troubles and knock up at work.
Best cure is to change to a diet of
! wheaten or oaten chaff, maize and
bran. (2) Use of the following pow-
der twice daily for six days will help:
Powdered nux vomica 2dms, gentian
2dms, powdered Epsom salts loz.,
mixed with a little treacle or molasses
and placed on the back of the
tongue.
* * * *
In radio what is a “counterpoise
aerial’’ and how is it employed?
It is a balancing aerial used in
place of the earth connection. It
increases the selectivity of certain
types of receivers, and sometimes is
used to reduce interference. There
is much to commend its use. In
the case of an aeroplane, where no
direct “earth” is possible, the bond-
ing of the metal structure of the
plane is used as a counterpoise at
low frequencies. For general use the
counterpoise should be directly below
the aerial, and at least two-thirds the
same length, about 6ft. above ground.
* * * *
General rules of polo ? K
(1) Ponies of any height may be
played. (2) ( a ) Fullsized ground 300
yards by 200 yards, if unboarded; if
boarded, 300 yards by 160 yards; ( b )
goals not less than 250 yards apart,
each goal to be eight yards wide; (c)
goalposts at least 10 feet high, and
light enough to break if collided
with; (and) the board not to exceed 11
inches in height. (3) The ball shall
not exceed 3£ inches in diameter, and
5? ounces in weight. (4) ( a ) Number
of players is limited to four-a-side in
all games and matches; ( b ) no player
shall play with his left hand, except
left-handed players registered at Hur-
lingham. (5) The maximum duration
of play in a match shall be seven
periods of eight minutes each, with
intervals of three minutes after each
period.
* * * *
General information on hammer-
head sharks 2
They are members of the Sphyrnidce
family, having the head peculiarly
flattened, and produced into a broad,
flat lobe on each side upon which the
eyes are placed. The purpose or value
of this development is unknown, and
it is undoubtedly one of the most re-
markable modifications found among
fishes. Half a dozen species are
known, some of which range over all
temperate and tropical seas and, at-
taining a large size, are dangerous to
man. The others are smaller and
more restricted in their distribution.
Each female produces a large number
of young, which are born alive. A
common species in Australian waters
is Sphyma zygcena, which attains a
length of at least 15 feet,
* * * *
History and general information of
Adelaide Town Hall?
The foundation-stone was laid on
May 4, 1863, by the Governor, Sir
Dominic Daly, and the opening cere-
mony took place in June three years
later. It was built from designs of
the late E. W. Wright, who was
Mayor of the city in 1859, and the
designs were modified to meet finan-
cial exigencies. Of the sculptured
heads on the Town Hall building the
centre one represents Queen Victoria
and another the Prince Consort. The
others in all probability represent
Michelangelo Buonarroti, Donatello,
Brunelleschi, Goujon, Delorme or
other creative minds of the fifteenth
century after whom Wright is said to
have modelled much of his work.
The entire front of the building, as
well as the tower, is constructed of
freestone. The Albert Tower is 145 ft.
high and contains a peal of eight
bells. The main hall, which is
approached by a broad staircase, is
107 ft. long by 66ft. broad and 44ft.
high, and seats 1248.
* * * *
Who was Brahms’s father? Was he
a musician ?
The composer’s father was Johann
Jakob Brahms (1806-1872), who was
himself a musician. He had filled
the office of municipal musical direc-
tor in his native town of Heide, in
Schleswig-Holstein. For many years
he was an orchestral musician in
Hamburg, playing the double bass in
the Philharmonic concerts and a hom
with the Hamburg city militia.
Brief Answers.
H.J.M.: It was A. Wellard (not
Welland) who hit five consecutive
sixers off T. R. Armstrong (Derby-
shire) in 1936... .L.P.: The world’s
record for any wicket in first-class
cricket was made by V. Hazare (288)
and Gul Mahomed (319) with 577 for
the fourth wicket for Baroda v.
Holkar, at Baroda in 1946-47....
M.R.: Wicketkeeper T. G. Evans
gathered 33 wickets (28 caught, five
stumped) with the M.C.C. team in
Australasia in 1946-47 Q.S.: Spear
Chief won the Queensland Derby and
third in the Qld. Cup in 1937, won
Brisbane Cups in 1938 and 1939, and
filled third place in the Doomben
Newmarket in 1938 0.T.: Miller’s
Sporting Annual records that the first
race-meeting in N.S.W. was held at
Parramatta, 30/4/1810, and in Victoria
at Batman’s Hill, 6/8/1838 G.R.:
The Vic. Football League Brownlow
Medal (awarded to the best and fair-
est player of the season) was won by
H. Bunton (Fitzroy) in 1931, 1932
and 1935, and R. Reynolds (Essen-
don) in 1934, 1937 and 1938. No
award was made in 1942-45 owing to
World War 11....G.A.: (1) Asa
general guide, the mortar should have
just enough sand in it to make it work
nicely and not stick in the trowel.
Some lime takes more sand than
others. (2) Cement mortar is prefer-
able R.F.D.: The first Rotary
Club in Australia was formed in Mel-
bourne in April, 1921, by J. W.
Davidson and Col. Layton Ralston,
two Canadians who were Commis-
sioners for the Rotary International.
W.W.: Dig up the plants and
separate them, replanting only the
new, strong, fibrous shoots. The
old stalks should be discarded. Make
the soil rich with rotted manure be-
fore putting in the plants. Super-
phosphate should be added when the
plants come into bloom P.L.:
New Britain has an area of
13,000 square miles H.J.: There
are records of blackfish weighing
six pounds T.F.: Damaskeening
is the art of inlaying one metal
upon another, practised largely in
the East in medieval times, espe-
cially in the decorating of sword
blades W.F.: Adreno, at the foot
of Mount Etna, has a population of
over 26,000... .R.L.: Asa yearling
Persian Prince (by Manitoba-Dark
Elegance) was sold for 4000 guineas.
B.K.: The Memsie Stakes went
to Ajax in 1940 A.L.: 8.8.C.’s
European Services continued to relay
“America calling Europe” broadcasts
after American Broadcasting Station
In Europe (ABSIE) closed down on
July 4, 1945....T.K.: Steele Rudd
was born at Drayton, Darling
Downs, in 1848... .T.G.L.: Address
of Natal “Mercury” is Box 950, Dur-
ban. London Office: Room 7D, 135
Fleet Street, E.C.4 Y.L. s The
Hawthornden Prize, for which books
do not have to be specially submitted,
is awarded annually. The prize is
£IOO and was founded by the late
Miss Alice Warrender in 1919. It
was won in 1944 by Martyn Skinner
for Letters to Malaya.... A.R.:
American Consul in Adelaide is
Elvin Siebert, Shell House, North
Terrace, Adelaide K.L.: Hughie
Dwyer was born in Gunnedah,
N.S.W., in 1898. He won the Austra-
lian lightweight championship from
Sid Godfrey; the welterweight title
from A 1 Burke; and the middle-
weight crown from Billy Edwards.
F.P.H.: Since the day of Charles
11, alleged to have desired to turn
his back on Cromwell, it has been an
invariable rule that the sovereigns’
heads on our coins have faced alter-
nately with each reign. As no coin
was struck for Edward VIII, the
fact that the heads of George V and
George VI face the same way is in
the tradition.


The HITCH HIKER
By GAVIN S. CASEY
BOILING over with indignation,
Ringer O’Reilly stood at the edge
of the road, thumbing cars. There
were not many cars to thumb on
that particular road, but he stood there,
large and dark and powerful, and made a
savage sign to each of the few that came
along.
His gesture was arrogant and com-
manding, instead of humble and beseech-
ing, the way it should have been, and,
far from stopping, most drivers put their
feet down on their accelerator pedals
when they saw it. In the daylight his
angry, impatient face was not attractive,
and when the spreading darkness hid its
expression his swag-
gering, defiant body
in the dusk looked
equally forbidding.
By the time a car
stopped for him
Ringer was not in a
grateful mood. He
flung his swag into
the back seat of the
big sedan and piled
himself after it. He
kicked a leather-case
out of his way and
sprawled out com-
fortably. He wound down a window and
spat through it as the car moved off
again. Then he said “Thanks” as if he
didn’t mean it and settled down to
smoulder.
HE didn’t want to think about these
people who were just a means for
him to get from one place to another, but
within a few hundred yards the big car
had reached such a pace that he found
himself staring through the darkness at
the back of the driver’s neck. The neck
was thick, sprouting out of a pair of
shoulders* as wide as his own. But it
was thicker than his, shaped to melt
into jowls in front, and the hair was
thin on the crown of the driver’s head.
Huddled beside the man at the wheel was
a small woman, apparently half asleep.
Ringer watched the hot beam of the head-
lights devouring the bush at the side of
the road, and made up his mind that they
were going too fast. The huge sedan
was under control, but only just. The
wheels were drifting slightly on the loose
surface, and the speed was terrific for a
rippled gravel road.
“What’s the hurry?” Ringer asked.
The driver stayed silent for so long that
Ringer thought he had not heard, but
suddenly he seemed to wake up. “Eh?”
he said. “Oh, I just like t’ go somewhere
when I’m going anywhere. No hurry.
really.”
“You’ll break our bloody necks,”
Ringer told him, forgetting his previous
troubles in his irritation.
“I doubt it,” the man said, tramping
on the throttle so hard that the mutter
of the engine rose above the swish of
tyres on fire gravel. “Used t’ the car.
Used t’ the roads. Been doin’ it for years.
What the hell if I did, anyway?”
THE car roared down a long slope at
a speed that would.have left them no
chance if anything had gone wrong. Then
it leapt up a small, steep hill 'and ex-
ploded into the vacancy over the crest
with all four wheels clear of the ground
for a moment. The little woman in the
front seat slept on, but Ringer gripped the
arm-rest in fright. He didn’t like being
frightened.
“Here!” Ringer commanded. “Stop th’
thing and let me out.”
“Like hell!” the man said amiably. “I
stopped once for you, cobber, and I’m
not stoppin’ twice.”
Ringer lay back, staggered at such
audacity. “Are y’ drunk?” he asked.
“No business of yours,” the man said
cheerfully. “You’re not a cop, are you?
You might be a murderer or something—
bloke I knew once picked up a murderer
an’ drove him a hundred miles along this
road—but you ain’t a cop, that’s sure.”
“No, I’m not a cop, an’ I’m not a
murderer, either,” Ringer said hotly.
“Only I’ll most likely be a murderer if
you don’t stop this car. I’ll tear your
throat *out if you'don’t pull up now and
let me out.”
“Nice way to start bein’ a murderer.”
The driver sounded interested, but did not
take his foot off the throttle, “Bump-off
the three of us all in one go for a start.
No more chances for you, though, ’cause
you’d be dead too.”
The driver rocked and roared with
laughter, and the speeding car swayed in
two long arcs from one side of the road
to the other.
Sweat jumped out on Ringer’s fore-
head, and he hooked his toes desperately
under the footrest rail. A pair of dim
lights, belonging to something ancient
and rattly, locfmed up on the road ahead.
The big car didn’t slacken its pace by
a mile an hour. It lurched sickeningly,
straightened up, and sang past the old
utility with the branches of the roadside
scrub lashing at its windows. When it
was on the crown of the road again
Ringer relaxed a little, and the woman
woke up.
n\\fASH that, darling?” the woman
VV asked. “Rain?”
The driver chuckled deeply, and the
woman started to breathe heavily again.
“Listen,” Ringer said. “She’s drunk.
She’s drunk, anyway.”
“O’ course she is,” the man agreed.
“Likes t’ be a bit full when she travels
with me. Suits me all right. Keeps her
quiet.”
“Well, listen,” Ringer said angrily. “It
don’t keep me quiet, see? Know who I
am?” ,
“No,” said the driver. “But don t tell
me, mate. Let me guess.”
“I’m Ringer O’Reilly,” Ringer snarled,
through his teeth. “If y’ don’t belong to
this country it probably don’t mean any-
thing to y’.”
“It don’t,” the man Anyway,
I'm Mangle O’Malley. Pleased t’ meet
yV*
He rolled in the seat with mirth, and
the long sedan wound a pattern that
duplicated the heaving of his shoulders, as
it sped through the night. Ringer began
to tremble with rage and fear.
“Stop this car!” Ringer roared. “Stop
and get out and I’ll tear your guts out.”
“Who’s gonna help you?” the woman
asked shrilly, sud-
denly awake again.
“It’d take a football
team o’ your sort t’
do anything to my
Joe.”
“Joe!” said
Ringer with relish.
“I just broke - the
jaw of a cove called
Joe, just this after-
noon. Boss o’ the
board at Bungaroo,
and a lousy swine
if ever there was one.”
“My Joe’d kill you,” the woman
shrieked.
“That’s what I’m frightened of, Mum,”
Ringer said. “But not if I can get him
out on th’ ground.”
THE driver took a long curve with the
outside tyres sending a great fan of
dirt in among the trees, and the body of
the sedan sitting perilously on the outside
springs.
‘T dunno you, Slinger, or whatever you
call yourself,” the man at the wheel said.
“But I know Joe Swingleton at th’ shed
at Bungaroo. What’d' you crack him
for?”
“ ‘Ringer,’ blast you!” said Ringer. “I
don’t shear wet sheep for no 'man, no
matter who else’ll let ’emselves be bluffed.
I broke his bloody jaw, an’ I flattened
out th’ bookkeeper, an’ there wasn’t an-
other game to have a go at me. I'took me
things an’ a bottle of Scotch from the
Old Man’s sideboard. Gawd! I wish
I’d taken two.”
“Thirsty?” asked the driver, putting
two wheels in the gutter to dodge a cow
that was loafing along the road. “That’s
more like it, cobber. Why didn’t you say
so before?”
He fumbled along the front seat, found
a bottle, and thrust it backwards towards
his passenger. Ringer looked at it hope-
lessly, but reached for it automatically.
It was only a pint, but it was nearly full,
and he took a good long suck at it.
“Ladies first,” the woman said,
sleepily. “Ain’t you gentlemen?”
“Plenty more where that come from, ’
the driver told her.
The liquor hit the right spot in Ringer
straight away. The big car drifted luridly
on the gravel, but his mind was lagging
somewhere behind the movement, and
he didn’t notice it so much. His fear
began to disappear, but his cage remained
and grew more fierce.
“I’ll have a smack at you,” he told the
driver. “You gotta stop sooner or later,
an’ when you do, look out. I’ll put you
in th’ hospital, righfbeside Joe Swingleton
an’ the Bungaroo bookkeeper.”
< < TX EEP that bottle, mate,” the man
l \ said. “I got plenty more here.”
Ringer sighed in near-defeat, and took
another drink that sent defiance soaring
up in him.
“I wasn’t gonna give it back,” he
growled. “Y’ didn’t think I was gonna
give it back, did y’?”
The woman went to sleep again, and
the driver started to sing, and Ringer cqn-
centrated on the grog and his sorrows.
The road rolled away crazily behind
them, and the long headlight beams cut
a swaying track through the night.
Ringer sweated gently with fear, but
there was nothing he could do about
it. If he hit the man on the head with
the bottle that would be curtains for sure.
It was more sensible to drink the
bottle and hope for the best.
Suddenly the road
swooped off at right-
angles’ oyer a rail-
way crossing, but the
car didn’t. Ringer
found himself
grovelling on the
floor, with fins skull
beating a fast tattoo
against the back of
the front seat. When
his face bounced
up level with a
window a great
tree-trunk was scrap-
ing past at high speed.
A. lurch threw him to the other side
of the car, and there was a “ping” and a
singing of lashing broken wire as they
plunged through the railway fence. Then,
sitting flat on the springs, it was sud-
denly still. Still and silent, with even the
engine stopped.
RINGER climbed out,shakily, to find
the big driver already on the ground,
and pretty pleased with himself. He
pointed joyously at a gnarled old gum in
the glare of the headlights about eighteen
inches from the radiator.
“Look!” he said. “Look at that. II
I’d cracked that one it would have been
goodnight nurse.”
“Gripes!” said Ringer, almost feeling
grateful. Then he remembered his inten-
tions. “Makes no difference to you, you
cow,” he announced grimly. “It’s good-
night nurse for you, anyway.”
Ringer’s big fists bunched, and he leapt
towards his enemy, but the driver jumped
back even faster. He gave a fiendish yell
as his hand whipped in and out of his
pocket. “Stand still, or I’ll drop you like
a dog,” he bellowed. From his enormous
right hand a small, evil, metallic circle
gleamed straight at Ringer in the mixture
of moonlight ahd car-light. Ringer’s
knees sagged and another pint or two of
cold sweat broke out on him.
“Drill him, Joe! Blast a hole in him! ”
the small woman screamed, dancing in the
bush like a witch after blood. “Shoot
him in the guts. We never seen him
before, and they’ll never pin it on us.”
“I’ll hit him in the jaw, where he hit
poor old Joe Swingleton,” the man said,
calmly.
“My God!” Ringer pleaded, making
feeble motions in the air. “Listen, mister,
I was only talkin’. I never hit Swingleton,
an’ 1 didn’t mean no harm to you. Lemme
go, an’ you’ll never see me again.”
THEN Ringer’S eyes started to bulge.
Out of the tube that was pointed so
steadily towards him some liquid had
started to run. By brute force he pinched
his eyelids together, and got a better focus
in the tricky light. It
wasn’t a gun at all!
It was a half-pint
whisky - bottle, with
most of it except the
neck engulfed in the
man’s huge hand.
Ringer let out an
enormous eruption
of baffled sound,
and leapt again. But
once more the driver
leapt faster.
i There was a
jangle of breaking
glass, and by the time Ringer reached
his lunatic foe the jagged ends of the
smashed bottle, held by the neck, were
swinging within an inch of his nose.
“Come on!” the driver shouted.
“Come on, an I’ll cut up your face into
mincemeat for breakfast. Come 'on, an’
I’ll gouge your eyeballs out an’ jump on
’em. Come on, ap’ I’ll make a hole in
your cheek so you can drink without
opening your mouth.”
Ringer stood, rigid with fear, and the
man’s eyes gleamed horribly as he crept
forward. “All right,” he said. “I’ll let y’
go. I don’t believe y’ could have broken
Joe Swingleton’s jaw anyway. Into the
back of th’ car! Go on!”
* Ringer scrambled into the car, shiver-
ing and finally beaten, and the driver
handed the bottle to the tiny woman.
“Here,” he said. “Let him have it in the
eyes if he makes a move.”
“I think I’ll let him have it anyway.
Joe,” the woman said. “Be good for
him.”
She jerked the fangs of glass forward
until one of them scratched the bridge
of Ringer’s nose. “For Gawd’s sake,
missus,” Ringer gasped in his nightmare.
“If th’ car bumps you’ll have me eye
out.”
“What the hell?” the woman said.
“Who’d care?”
BUT the car got going, back on to the
road, and in full motion again, with-
out mishap. In a few hundred yards the
driver had its powerful engine pushing it
along at something over eighty. Ringer
shrank' against the cushions of the back
seat, and the woman leant over the front
one so that the bottle wasn’t too far away
from him. The driver took an Ess-bend
like a jet-plane trying to bounce off the
stars. Nothing that had happened
had interfered with his nerve at
the wheel. But he was strangely
silent,' until they began to catch
glimpses of stationary lights between
the low hills. Then he spoke, in a
tight, strained voice.
“That’s Glombawurra,” he declared.
“Gosh, yes,” said Ringer. “That’s where
I was goin’. Will you let me off
there?”
“My oath!” said the man. “Wouldn’t
take you a foot further.”
“In front of the pub, Joe,” the woman
yelled. “Put him down in front of the
pub, an’ we can go in and get some more
grog.”
“I’ll put him down anywhere where
there’s plenty of light,” the driver stated.
“No more of him in the dark. He’s a
dangerous cow, he is.”
they were already in among the out-
lying lights, and Ringer’s hopes of sur-
vival began to rise. “Me dangerous? he
said feebly. “I like that!”
<<V ou ’ VE cured me of P ickin ’ up
I hitchhikers,” the man said severely,
as he applied the brakes to pull up under
the floodlight at the main intersection.
“Man with a wife takes a terrible risk,
stopping for swine like you.”
Climbing out of the car, while the small
woman continued to wave the broken
bottle and the tyres smoked slightly with
the heat of their speed, Ringer was
not game to say anything, but when
he had staggered to the pub and
breasted the bar, with the roar of trie big
car’s departure still in his ears, he felt
better. . . , ... „
“I bin cured of hitchhiking for hte,
he announced to the man standing next to
him. “A man ain’t safe on the roads
these days. I’d rather walk.”


The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
grinder discs—recommended for shearing-shed work.
40z., Boz., 160 z., 1 gallon sizes . . . Hardware and general stores.
The "MARS” High Speed
PLANING MACHINE
Built to Recognised Standards of Accuracy
Designed for the precision workshop, the
* MARS” Planer is of a proved design and
JB '
capable of obtaining maximum output from high speed cutting
tools. All essential revolving parts are dynamically balanced
. . . all gear teeth are generated.
MARS MACHINE TOOL MFC. CO. PTY. LTD.
Precision Lathes, Shapers, Millers and Plianers
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE.
fdf
Distributing Agents: N.S.W.: Thomas Herbert &
Co. Pty., Ltd. Vic.: Herbert Osborne, Engineer,
567-9 Little Bourke St. (near King St.),
Melbourne, 0.1. S.A.: M. S. McLeod, Ltd.,
Adelaide. W.A.: The Western Machinery Co.,
Ltd., Perth. Tas,: Charles Davies, Ltd., Hobart.
Calcutta: Ross Neil & Sons, Chowringhee
Rd. Bombay Province: R. S. Mehta & Co., Ltd.,
Fort Bombay. Madras, Mysore, Cochin and
Puddukkottai: Australasian Trading Co.
(India), Ltd. Hongkong and Shanghai: The
East Asiatic Co., Ltd.
s (’und or
MEEHaNITE
IRONS.
MANUFACTURERS
LICENSED
EYSAatrrsJ
PROOF
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK lor Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
\
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
r~ M
; _^i ; >&■■ , - 'i'l -' J «hl' „:
*•;** >->i£C.-i>'
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Reg’d Office & Works, Blackwall Pt. Road, Five Dock,
City Office, 17 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE WAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Sheep Drenches.
“Bungaree”; The statement
(B. 26/1/’49) that bluestone and
nicotine is the best all-round
drench may have been correct 10
years ago ; now it is simply not
in the race with phenothiazine.
Biuestone-nicotine is fairly effec-
tive against barber’s-pole, black-
scour and tapeworms, but is in-
effective against nodule and
large-mouthed bowel worms.
Phenothiazine is more effective
than biuestone-nicotine against
all those worms, except tape-
worms, which are only of sec-
ondary importance, and it has
the added advantage of high
efficiency against nodule and
bowel worms. It is the only
drench so far discovered which
has this feature.
For good results nicotine is
dependent on the action of the
bluestone to close the oesophageal
groove at the base of the gullet
and thus switch the drench direct
to the fourth stomach and small
intestine, where the worms are
located. If the groove does not
close the drench gets mixed with
the bulky contents of the paunch,
and by the time it reaches the
worms it is so weak that it has
little or no effect. Tests have
proved that bluestone fails to
act in 15 p.c. to 20 p.c. of sheep
treated, so there will always be
a wormy tail on every mob so
drenched.
This not only increases the cost
of drenching, but the sheep
which do not react continue to
lose condition and wool growth
is checked. Moreover, the sheep
continue to infest the pasture
with worm-eggs.
C.S.I.R. experiments have
shown that three doses of
phenothiazine give better results
than five doses of biuestone-
nicotine, so that although the
primary cost of the pheno-
thiazine is greater it is cheaper in
the long run. It is effective on
every sheep. Phenothiazine
should be used on all young
sheep so long as seasonal condi-
tions are favorable to worm in-
festation.
The dose rate given for biue-
stone-nicotine, attributed to
N.S.W. Department of Agri-
culture, is incorrect. The de-
partmental recommendation,
which is much stronger, advo-
cates 11b. of bluestone and 16 fl.
oz. of nicotine sulphate to 2igal.
of water, with a dose rate for
grown sheep of 1 fl. oz. For
lambs under four months 11b. of
bluestone and 16 fl. oz. of nico-
tine should be added to sgal. of
water with a dose rate of \ fl.
oz. These recommendations are
practically 50 p.c. stronger than
those given (B. 26/1/’49).
Handling Sheep.
“N’gaduri”; Best shed is one
with a 4ft. race separating the
catching- and back-pens, with
the gates opening in such a way
as to form (with the wool-room
wall and drop-gates of the race)
a narrow passage into the catch-
ing-pens. Sheep will run readily
through these and will not stick
up in them. Back-pens should be
the same size as, or multiples of,
the catching-pens, and should
never be filled tight. If the back-
pens all have windows the sheep
will fill them easier.
The best time to fill the catch-
pens is not as soon as “smoke-
oh” bell goes, but toward the
end of the break when the shed
is quiet. Even then don’t put too
many in, for as soon as the
machinery starts and the pen
doors are opened they will
crowd back and the weak ones
will go down.
Supply the board-boy with a
big pot of some antiseptic—
“tar” —and make certain he uses
it. In any case, check the
wounds in the branding-pen—
you won’t have time later or it
may be too late.
If the sheep must go back into
their paddock and the weather is
at all risky, make sure they have
time to get a good feed before
nightfall to fortify them against
the cold. Even then, only take
those from the first three runs.
Those from the last run won’t
have time for a feed and should
be kept in the shelter of the
shed. Best plan is the well-
sheltered holding paddock, par-
ticularly if the sheep are fat or
weak. In a cold snap it is the
empty and fat ones from the
last run which will go in the
unaccustomed cold. The caul-
fat becomes hard and brittle as
a carrot, impeding circulation.
In taking away “shornies” let
them string along themselves
while you help the stiff and lame
ones in the fear. Your only dog
should be a quiet old fellow who
keeps well away off the sheep
and, if necessary, will work the
lead as though he’s more in-
terested in a thorough explora-
tion of the road ahead than in
working sheep. The man who
says he needs a rowdy forcing
dog: really needs a man of
patient temperament to take his
own place.
The bare necessity of yarding,
drafting, shedding, penning,
shearing and branding knocks a
great deal out of the sheep, par-
ticularly the valuable ewes and
lambs, and a good manager must
be always on the lookout to see
that these jobs are done quietly
and efficiently. His reward will
“I think well sow lucerne in that patch next season,
Strawb."
be fewer losses in the long run
and the pride and respect that
always go with really good
sheep management.
Zinc-sulphate and Wheat.
“Carlyle”; Departmental tests
in western Wimmera over the
past 12 years demonstrate! its
value as a yield increaser. Al-
though the result in red and
loamy soils is variable, definite
increases have been obtained
from black-soil crops. Applied
with super., the mixture can be
made up before sowing begins
and will not deteriorate if kept
dry and free-running. Last price
was per lb., and as the usual
dressing is 51b. to 101 b. per acre,
even a small increase in yield
justifies its use.
Tests so far indicate that it
may not be necessary to apply a
dressing to each crop, as little
response is gained from a fresh
application on land which- has
been treated with at least 71b.
per acre the previous season. As
its use is still mainly experi-
mental, the Department of
Agriculture recommends that
treated and untreated crops be
separated to facilitate com-
parison.
Used as a fertiliser (again with
super.) for crops of oats, subter-
ranean clover, phalaris and flax,
zinc-sulphate has been respon-
sible for increased height, growth
and depth of color.
A Temporary Pasture.
“Mr.”: Where one is wanted
that will make rapid growth
during the first and second year
on land intended later for crop-
ping or some other purpose,
choose from the following:
Clovers: alsike, red, crimson,
nodding and subterranean.
Grasses: Wimmera rye, Italian
rye. New Zealand “HI,” rye
and prairie-grass.
Where rainfall is below 20in.
select an early-flowering variety
of sub.-clover such as Dwal-
ganup or Bacchus Marsh and
sow with Wimmera rye. W. D.
Andrew, M.Agr.Sc., in the
Victorian “Journal of Agricul-
ture,” recommends a sowing of
21b. to 31b. of grass and the same
amount of clover-seed per acre.
In the intermediate-rainfall
areas (20in, to 30in.) sow the
a ■ *• , ,
T d ' seas °!l varieties of sub.-
clover with Wimmera rye. In
the better-rainfall districts a
good temporary pasture can be
nraTrfc-eTass Tub riSfandTS
prairie grass, sub., alsike and/or
red or crimson clovers.
A little perennial rye-grass
f OU added w ith advantage
*“ the , abov ?. for
;iif liough shortlived in the drier
TvZl*™ ft.
c .77~
C l» c k en -P°x.
■ Theeasiest method,
lo os ™n, of combating
ohteken-pox in poultry (B.
is b y vaccination,
When the youngsters are be-
tween six and 12 weeks of age
is the best time. It is very
simple—a few feathers are
plucked from the thigh of the
bird, and the vaccine (available
from most providers of poultry
equipment) is applied to the
bare patch with a small stiff
brush, and if correctly done
certainly prevents chicken-pox
and is preferable to all the
handling and dressing with oint-
ments after the birds have con-
tracted the disease.
“Agamemnon”; A more effec-
tive way is prevention by vac-
cination. At the same time
attention should be paid to the
eradication of worms and cor-
recting of vitamin A deficiencies,
which intensify the action of the
disease. Losses are greatest in
autumn-hatched chicks, but pul-
lets go into a moult and egg-
production drops. Ag well as
being infected through small
cuts, etc., the virus is carried
from fowl to fowl by mosqui-
toes.
Vaccination is highly effective.
It gives the birds a very mild
attack which later will protect
them. Provided the inoculated
birds are quite healthy there is
no risk. Vaccine is put up in a
dried-powder form which is
dissolved before use in sterile
water. The stab method is the
most satisfactory method of ap-
plication. In this a special twO-
pronged needle is used which
just holds a drop of vaccine. It
is applied to the leg. Twelve
days later the flock should be
examined for “takes,” shown by
small warts at the site of inocu-
lation.
Only birds in good condition
and general health should be
vaccinated or heavy losses may
occur. Six to 12 weeks is the
most satisfactory age. Day-old
chicks are suitable, but as early
vaccination may lead to trouble
if coccidiosis, etc,, appears,
early vaccination is not recom-
mended.
Self-help Will Beat Rabbits.
“He-Ne”: If farmers think
they are going to receive any
tangible assistance from Gov-
ernments to fight rabbits, then
they have another think coming.
Only a policy of determined
self-help will beat the menace.
A year ago N.S.W. Department
of Agriculture put up a scheme
that 500 Balts should be diverted
into an idle wire-netting plant
to get production going ,again.
The scheme was all right
except that the Federal Gov-
ernment didn’t provide the
Balts, and the plant is still idle.
Before and during the war
Lysaghts and Rylands Bros.


<9l
</ 4^
THE HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
The self-contained, self-emptying
Sanitary System.
Est. 1937.
Imitation is Sincerest Flattery
Beware of imitations similar in appear-
ance but lacking the internal patent
which makes the Hygeia Dissolvenator
so efficient.
Intending purchasers are invited to in-
vestigate the integrity of the Hygeia
Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd., the bona fldes of
the Hygeia Dissolvenator, as well as the
vailue and scope of the Hygeia Guarantee
compared with any other guarantee.
The Hygeia Guarantee includes 7 years
against corrosion.
Let the record of the 12,000 Dissol-
venators sold during the past 22 years
be your guide—do not be misled by
specious statements.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 20 years.
DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
Queensland; Hygeia Dissolvenators (Qld.),
609 Colonial Mutual Building, Queen
St., Brisbane.
Victoria: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Vic.)
Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
South Australia; Hygeia Dissolvenator Co.,
(S.A.), Edment’s Building, Bundle
St., Adelaide.
Western Australia: R. P. Mclnemey &
Co., Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
Tasmania: Wn‘Crosby & Co., Ltd., Laun-
ceston and Hobart.
Darwin: C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales
and Services.
•II
For inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H.A.Bose&Co.Pty.Ltd.KlngSt.Sydney
HOW ARE YOUR SUPPLY LINES?
«q nrrv can >t supply,” an all-too-familiar phrase these days, signifying
more “making do” with old equipment and possibie loss oi stock a d
crops. But there’s a silver lining for you in the efficient service oi
A.M.L.&F. Merchandise Department. . T , rV i nn£r standing business
Despite the present general shortages, A.M.L.&P. s iong-stanmng ousuie
contacts enable them to obtain essential requirements with much less than the
usual delay. So —ask A.M.L.&F.! .
85 Years in the Service of the Man on the Land.
Australian, Mercantile, land ft Finance Coy. ltd.
Inc, in England in 1863.
4 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches at Newcastle, Wagga, Moree, Henty and Hay.
df
Famous British
ENGINES
are
NOW
available
at
REDUCED
PRICES
For immediate delivery contact
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY.
’PHONE: MA 6311 7-11 MARKET ST.
LTD.
.SYDNEY
v/Min nnr 5s worih caring for-
YUUK t/UVI Be on the watch for
signs of digestive disorders such as list-
lessness, poor appetite, dull or loose coat
or a warm nose. If you notice any of
these symptoms give him a course of
Barko Condition Powders immediately.
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS
1/6 PER BOX , AT ALL CHEMISTS
SMOKERS
PIPE TOBACCOS THAT ARE
BLENDED TO GIVE
SATISFACTION TO ALL.
HOUSE OF MURPHY. A blepd of
the highest grade of leaf to give a
cool smoke of satisfaction that men
prefer. 22/- per lb. Posted.
A.A.A. HIUUTOP. A blend of
Australian, American and African.
20/- per lb. Posted.
WINSTON READY RUBBED
CIGARETTE TOBACCO. Greatly
improved by better blending of
mature leaf. 24/- per lb. Posted.
Special Quotes to Retailers for lots Wlh.
weight or over.
Write to; Cash Order Dept.,
Hillman Trading Co.,
Commercial Road, Brisbane.
Postage paid on Cash with order.
Postage extra on C.O.D. Orders,
*
9*9*
I
KEEP YOUR EN6IHE
Mobiloil clean
After exactly similar operation, piston at left shows
what happened with “just oil;” the piston at the
right has been kept Mobiloil Clean.
GIVES..
• A Cleaner Engine
• Perfect Lubrication
• Longer Engine Life
• Improved Performance
• Quicker Starting
• Complete Protection at
all speeds & temperatures
M-4-71 *5
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTV. LTD, HNC IN AUST.i
ASK FOR Mobiloil -THE WORLDS QUALITY OIL
VACUUM
QUALITY PRODUCT
produced netting, but Lysaghts
have ceased production because
they cannot get labor. This
is a chance for the countryman
to come down to Sydney and
offer himself to Lysaghts and be
paid in wire-netting.
Some netting is coming into
Australia from Europe, but it is
almost three times the price of
the local article. Those farmers
who really want netting could
take a hand and offer to make
it themselves. If Balts, could
have done the job, then Aus-
tralians could do it, and prob-
ably much better. Both the
Farmers and Settlers’ Associa-
tion and the Graziers’ Associa-
tion have commended the idea.
Some of the worst-infested parts
of N.S.W, are Crown lands.
Here surely the Government
could give a lead in vigorous
killing. If an investigation
should reveal that fumigation is
the best method, then the com-
monwealth Government should
be called upon to make dollars
available to bring fumigants into
Australia.
Petunias for Farm Gardens.
“Pat O’Day”: Summer is a
barren time for the inland
garden, but a wonderful effect
that delights the eye and over-
comes the heat is obtained if
extensive plots of petunias are
sown. Dark pine-trees help to
enhance the effect of these
hardy blooms. A sunny position
and good soil give best results,
and for a fine effect and to save
space fill round the bole of a
large tree with a 3 ft. depth of
good river-soil mixed with wood-
heap soil. Dig in a liberal
dressing of decayed manure.
Place large rocks around the
edge of the bed and work the
soil to fineness. Water well be-
fore planting.
Mix the petunia seed with a
little sand, and after sowing
press into the bed with a board.
The next watering and succeed-
ing waterings should be from a
can fitted with a fine rose-spray.
If a bright display is desired
a show-type in this species is
Austral grandiflora superbissima,
mixed, single. For those who
prefer the exotic American
types. Giants of California are
magnificent flowering species.
The tall-stemmed types (hybrids)
for backgrounds for flowerbeds
are purple prince, topaz rose (a
fiery rose) and flaming velvet (a
rich red). Dwarf specimens in
rose, blue, pink, purple and
shading to deep violet are easily
obtainable. When they have
flowered cut them back to ob-
tain a second flowering in
autumn.
Blight-resistant Potato.
“Bungaree Bob”: It’s been
produced in Canada, according
to Chicago “Daily Tribune,”
which has it that “A blight-
resistant potato has been de-
veloped by Canadian scientists,
and will provide the answer to
the blight that used to cause
potato famines, and still, despite
intensive spraying, ruins 25 per
cent, of the world’s potato crop
each year.”
After 15 years of experimenting, the
new potato now is being grown in
fields and greenhouses at the experi-
mental farm outside Fredericton.
Seedlings have been sent to agricul-
ture colleges and experimental stations
in the United States, Britain and Aus-
tralia. biext year it is planned to start
commercial distribution.
First large-scale plantings of the
new variety will be made in northern
New Brunswick, greatest potato-pro-
ducing area in North America. Here,
where 2000-acre ranches grow 25 per
cent, of Canada’s potato crop, and
export business is carried on with
the West Indies, Central and South
America, blight has sometimes de-
stroyed as much as 50 per cent, of
the yearly yield.
Impressed at the way rust-resistant
wheat has revolutionised prairie farm-
ing, C. F. Bailey, superintendent of
the Fredericton experimental farm,
in 1933, started work on development
of a disease-resistant potato. Start-
ing-point was the only known blight-
resistant tuber, the non-edible wild
potato of Central America, the size
of a pea. Thousands of these plants
were imported from Central America.
They were cultivated and crossed
with the Katahdins, Cobblers and
Green Mountain potatoes that make
New Brunswick Canada’s No. 1
producer of spuds.
More than 160,000 seedlings were
tested. Blight organisms were in-
jected into the plants, and the sur-
vivors used as breeders. Resistance
to other diseases such as scab, leaf
roll and mosaic was bred into the new
strain.
This year the scientists finally were
satisfied with the results. Superin-
tendent Smith A. Flilton says “We
have a number of seedlings that have
never developed blight, even when ex-
posed to the blight organisms. In
addition to having immunity to blight,
we hope they will equal the best
commercial varieties in quality and
yield.”
Burning-off.
“E.H.S.”; In clearing forest
land for cultivation it’s usual to
grub the large trees, pull the
smaller down with a forest devil
and cut them into convenient
lengths, stack the lighter on the
heavier logs, top with the lighter
material and fire at each end.
They burn well when the trees
are dry or of a kind that burn
readily, but when the timber is
green orTvaterlogged or of poor
burning quality the fires must be
stoked day and night until the
whole 'is reduced to ashes.
Pit-burning gives much better-
results with less labor. A con-
venient size for a pit is about
15ft. wide, 8ft. deep and suffi-
ciently long to take the logs.
The trees are not cut into several
lengths—the head is cut off and
placed in the pit as a foundation
for the fire; the whole trunks
are then hauled to the pit and
rolled in. All kinds of timber
burn well in a pit. All that is
necessary is a constant supply of
logs, no stoking is required as
the upper logs keep rolling to-
gether as the lower burn down.
The ashes provide an excellent
fertiliser, and should be stored
under coyer until required for
use.
Hints for the Farm.
“Biro”; To prevent lice in
pigs see that sties are built on
sloping, well-drained land and
spray them well occasionally
with sheep-dip. Infected pigs
should be dressed with a mixture
of equal parts of paraffin and
crude oils. If sacking soaked in
crude oil is wrapped around
posts in the enclosure the suf-
ferers will rid themselves of the
vermin by rubbing against it.
Affected pigs are likely to con-
tract pneumonia through their
run-down condition.
“K.T.”: To detect egg-eaters,
place an egg or two in the middle
of the run and watch. A number
of the hens will walk towards it,
turn it over and about, after
which they will walk away, but
the culprit will go over and
pierce the shell without the
slightest hesitation. The others
will naturally join in the feast.
That’s what leads to birds de-
veloping the habit.
“Big Billy”: Sulphur is an
effective treatment for downy
mildew and should be applied as
a dust in the morning, when the
plants are wet with dew. Some-
times sulphuK will injure plants
such as the cucurbits, particu-
larly in hot weather. For them
use Bordeaux mixture. The
spray schedule for black-spot
will give satisfactory control of
downy mildew on apples and
pears.
“Billjim”: To beat boxthorn
pull them out with a tractor,
then spray all new growth with
an arsenic-pentoxide solution of
31b. to sgal. of water. Don’t
allow stock near the area until
after a rain or the sprayed
bushes have been burned.
“Bert’s Mate”; Yes, hacking
or belting the trunks of barren
mango-trees (B. 5/1/’49) is the
only way to make them produce
fruit. This method is psed con-
siderably in the north. Once the
trunks and limbs of a mango be-
come smooth it is a sign that
the tree is carrying too much
sap, and belting the trunk with
axe or tomahawk lets the sap
escape. ,The rougher the bark
the bigger and better the fruit.
Thin out the branches so as to
let the sunlight through.
“M.”: To stop all ants, ex-
cept the Argentine variety, mix
sodium-arsenite 12 grains, honey
Boz. and water loz. Place in a
container on the ants’ traffic
route but out of reach of
children.


*FAT
M
9>.
the.
Who will protect
their interests
Capable administration alone can carry out your wishes.
That is why your executor or trustee must possess highly
Specialised knowledge, extensive experience, the ability to
make wise decisions, ample time, and solid financial backing.
Every beneficiary deserves the careful and unbroken
administration that Burns Philp Trust Company Limited
devotes to each estate. Write for a complimentary copy of
"Hands That Never Leave the Wheel." This booklet fully
explains the Company’s many services.
D I RECTORS:
James Burns Joseph Mitchell P. T. W. Black
Eric Priestley Lee
MANAGER: L. S. Parker SECRETARY: E. R. Overton, A.F.I.A.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR • TRUSTEE • AGENT
Constituted by Special Act of the N.S.W. Parliament
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone: BU 5901 Box 543, 5.P.0., Sydney
. ; ___ BPIB-48
BANISH GREY HAlR-
with
NASON SI
Available at
[Anthony Horderns’l
a
ARTS
Circular Charts for all types
of Recording Instruments
•or tnf class of MicMntqp
or Equipment
METER CHARTS » Specialty
r«O«'T (U'Mlut
JACftWafO'SUIUVAN^Iw
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
'sl: '' .* *'
fa 7 ri/^ te *2
ip
Milll mNm
COCKTAIL li
i\Y: •:
li
*: ;UU
• %t»,V
••
%
«v>. v
■ l l
\V.'s
IW
U
Casual, easy entertaining is the
fashion. You produce cocktails
or drinks, mixed in a minute,
without effort or fuss.
The Seville Cocktail has a
flavour that makes people
beg for the recipe.
icel Orange B>«e«
i Vickers Gtn
„ mto cocktail
Shake vvcll, 1 S “ f orange rind in
C;^conemonon t op.
D
Send for the FREE VICKERS RECIPE BOOK
containing 60 tested recipes for easily-made cocktails and long
drinks, with all instructions for mixing. Write to The United
Distillers Pty. Ltd., P.O. Box 759 G, Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
ICKERS GIN
dwzce /F'S'O
MIRAGE IN HARNESS
BY “COL M.”
TELEVISION began on the
-*■ Irish end of the trans-
atlantic cable with what generous
billiard-markers refer to as “an
accident.” It happened in 1873,
and the man who started it all
was cursing in brogue the heat
and his telegraph-receiver, which
annoyed him with an unusual
hum.
He found that the noise
stopped if he put his head back
into the shaft of sunlight that
streamed in through the window
behind him and settled on his
gear. He successfully tried the
same stunt with his hand, and
then made the correct guess that
the selenium coating of a resister
in the apparatus must have had
some properties that made it
blink at the light and register its
discomfort in terms of electrical
impulses.
Since then scientists have
found that light can chip elec-
trons off certain sensitive
materials. So they built a camera
with a normal lens and behind
it a light-sensitive surface, and
behind that again a thin glass
plate. When they pointed this
camera at an object, the lens
would focus its picture on the
sensitive material, causing a
scatter of the electrons, and this
they managed to focus on the
glass plate. Electrons are a form
of negative electricity, so when
they struck the glass, “target”
they traced on it a picture in
positive electricity. Further back
still in the camera the scientists
arranged for a beam of electrons
to “scan” this invisible picture,
and were able to get from it an
electric current whose tiny im-
pulse-variations matched all the
shadows and highlights of the
object being photographed.
This current was something
they could broadcast, and it was
a relatively simple matter to
build the receiving-sets that could
handle the process in reverse, and
convert that current back into a
picture. It has taken 76 years to
harness this mirage and get it to
a stage where conservative folk
will accept it as “imperfect, but
inevitable.”
Today in Britain there are
50,000 television licences in force,
and if the current boom in
America holds there will be 16
million sets in that country
within live years.
While the television concerns
of Britain and America are in-
clined to belittle each other’s
equipment, they agree whole-
heartedly on one point. They
say that the big motion-picture
industries might as well start
digging their holes. Film-makers,
however, continue to smile on
the world, and their complacency
is based on a factor that must
limit television.
When a producer makes a
movie he can retake scenes and
edit the results at length, so that
it is possible to whittle them
down to something resembling
perfection. That’s what he tells
us! He can, however, offer the
public a form of cut-and-dried
entertainment, censored by 57
different authorities and done up
in tins. It is impossible for his
counterpart in television to rub
out his mistakes.
What each of several television
cameras sees is - shown on
separate screens grouped at a
central control-panel. The tele-
vision producer cannot tinker
with the past at leisure, but must
edit his material as it is occur-
ring. He may suddenly notice
that, although the opera is a sad
one, the close-up on the air
shows the tenor’s Adam’s-apple
performing with misplaced
humor and threatening to steal
the show. The producer’s job is
to switch immediately to what
some other camera sees, and do
it smoothly without jarring the
eyes of the audience.
On the other hand the fact
that television manages to cap-
ture the unrehearsed could be an
advantage and make a set worth
something of the £7OO that jt is
possible to pay for one. -
Big film companies are wait-
ing. It is a financial absurdity to
release their present products,
for the one showing they would
get, at a price that television
could afford to pay, but while
marking time they are experi-
meriting with television them-
selves—or maybe trying to kill
it quick—by releasing for use
some of their proven flops.
The fact that some film com-
panies are getting into the tele-
vision business to the extent of
setting up their own studios is
lending strength to the argument
of the other side that sooner or
later film concerns will have to
spend half their time making
films that television can afford.
Until recently a quarter of
overseas television time showed
sport, popular enough, but need-
ing other foolproof mediums of
entertainment to back it up. The
World Federation of Musicians
provided one when, after long
arguments on ethics, they agreed
that their faces as well as their
fiddles could be broadcast.
Music being a stationary sport,
taking place in a relatively small
arena, is simple to capture in the
cameras, and is now regarded by
the television men as one of their
best lines—an honor it shares
with boxing. Horseracing, neces-
sitating a lot of camera-swinging,
is well down on the list.
Sports - commentators, inci-
dentally, find that they strike the
nearly impossible job of describ-
ing not a recent left-hook or leg-
bye, an art at which some of
them are in the category of his-
torians, but what is occurring in
the absolute present, and they
must keep a weather eye on the
future.
That television will make
necessary a brushing-up of enter-
tainment techniques is certain,
and the public should gain from
it. But certain disadvantages
have been pointed out.
Dogs, as a whole, appear to
dislike the device, although one
is reported as having been so
intent on watching a wrestling-
match coming over his owner’s
set that he developed eyestrain.
The question of what will
happen to the housework of the
world under television’s reign is
yet to be answered. While
normal radio is said to inspire
the lady in her daily battle, she
could not reasonably be ex-
pected to go on beating carpets
or chopping wood when she
knows that a televised Laurence
Olivier is waiting in her living-
room.
It is possible that Australia’s
jockeys will be looking at the
country’s first expensive tele-
vision sets in five years’ time.
Probable, in fact, for, since re-
cent overseas developments in
radio look like making obsolete
the frequency-modulation broad-
casting which raised the fur here
recently, Mr. Chifley has stated:
“While continuing to study
frequency-modulation, the Gov-
ernment will concentrate mainly
on television.”
The Prime Minister’s interest
in television must bring a con-
cluding word of warning. When
you get your set look out for
“womps.” These, translated
from the official language, are
“bursts of light upon the screen,
due to a sudden surge in signal
strength.” They should not lead
to the erroneous belief that one
is at last looking at Mr. Chifley’s
own unharnessed mirage—the
“Golden Age.”
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor,
H.Q.: “I want to go back to the
bush, the bush, I want to go back to
the bush.” Then off you go with a
push, a push, then off you go with
a push R.McC.: Can’t you write a
sentence of more than two words?
.... Bellerive: The tang of salt:
R.K.: That was a classic under-
statement when yoy called it “blank”
verse C.M.: Your unethical ap-
plication of W. C. Fields’s advice,
“Never give a sucker an even break,”
to the Tarcutta milking-machine*
brought on a collapse of the Society
editor S.T.: When you say that,
brother, smile... .R.T.W.: Not this
century.... HJ-B 1 .: You will find
with experience that it is difficult to
be poetic about a cow C. de L.:
Brought us to the verge of swears.
. ...M.D.: We admit that there’s an
awful jet pf coffee in Brazil... .P.L.:
That one bounced the highest of them
all L.R.: Enlightening, but your
hope to “read The Bulletin for the
next 50 years” would be thwarted if
we published it H.H.: Boxers
don’t “lead with open gloves”—not
for long, anyway D.K.: “Should
I clean the keys of my typewriter?”
An idea —try nitric acid K.L.:
Absolutely brilliant P.K.: Next
time you “open the morning window
and throw your chest out” please
follow it with other members
A.G.M.: After studying the form of
that horse carrying No. 7 saddle-
cloth in the seventh race on the
seventh day of the seventh month,
our Turf editor unerringly predicted
that the animal would run seventh
and that your friend would lose his
seven quid. C. 8.: That one went
very close; have another lash at it.
F.H.G.: What a curious way to
set out your typing—or was it in-
tended as verse?.... G.L.: Now
honestly—have you ever heard a
bogged bullocky? C.M.: No car
of 1926 rates the space. Four
champing cylinders indeed!... .Y.L.:
It’s hoary advice, but try chopping
off the first paragraph of everything
you write and starting to sub it from
there.
Tribute to E. J. Beady.
Fine poet on sailors
Their chanties and trips
To tropical isle’s on
On sailing ships.
A survivor of the
Henry Lawson’s time
A grand old bard
Of breezy rhyme
On summer sea’s
And lashing gales
Shrill whistling winds
And flapping sails.


LOOK YOUR BEST!
k\
piUNICt
P
Bide in
Personal appearance means much —-
be proud of yours it always pays to
look your best.
We, too, have pride:—Pride in every
hat that leaves our mill . . . Pride in
the dependable service
each hat will give its
wearer . . . Pride in our
splendid customer rela-,
tions over the past thirty-
seven years,
V
a
'Off
/
W*
tsoff
m
fi
m
***.
mm,
mm
I I CAME HERE ALL SET
'TO BE A.TIDAL WAVE-'
AND I DON'T EVEN CAUSE
, A RIPPLE! MEW TREAT,
ME I! K£‘SOMETHING THE
. TIDE WASHED IN!
V
SUE, BAD BREATH
CRAMPS ANY GIRL'S <
’ STYLE! SO-H’OW
ABOUT SEEING YOUR
DENTIST, HONEYfj
COLGATE DENTAL CgEAMS ACTIVE PmrMTING
FOAM GETS INTO HIDDEN CREVICES BETWEEN/
TEETH-HEIPS CLEAN OUTOECAVINS FOOD
PARTIOES-AND SO REMOVES THE CAUSE OF
MUCH UNPLEASANT BREATH. AND
POLISHING AGENT
CLEANS ENAMEL
THOROUGHLY,
GENTLY, /
mosAfayf <
TO COMBAT BAD BREATH,I RECOMMEND I
► COLGATE DENTAL CREAM! fORSCIENTIFIC
TESTS PROVE THAT IN 7 OUT OF 10 CASES,
i INSTANTLY STOPS BAD BREATH
THAT ORIGINATES IN'
THE MOUTH!
r
mm
COLSATES
HELPED ME GETMY
HIM I'M OFFTHE ROCKS--•••
AND IN THE SWIM!
>£
w
r7*
V
-<2
REMEMBER!
TWICE A OAT AND
BEEQKEftULQATC
d
COLGATE DENTAL CREAM
It cleans your breath
jwhiie it cleans yet
teeth
*3?
SMOKE-OH!
PIMMS No. I CUP
The Drink
for wise men
“Music, like Jove, should have no
territorial boundaries.” ,
—Sydney D.l ■
It should be as free as the
wandering oboe.
4* 4* 4*
“New court, beautifully acquainted,
now completed, ready for letting. ’
—Suburban paper.
Friendships are just a sideline
with it.
4* 4* 4*
“Saucy sailors in gay tartan to
match up with gloves and petticoat.”
— Woman’s paper.
For an unusual navy en-
semble?
“Fox terrier, six months, black ana
white, female, answers to name
‘Penny’.”— Melb. “Argus” Lost ad.
Calling a copper might help.
+ 4 1
“Jane Wyman is one of Holly-
wood’s most-sought-after actresses.
At present Metro are trying to
morrow her for leading lady. ’
—Film magazine.
A lovely to-morrow?
* * *
“When I worked at the Peoples
Palace, Perth, the second cook’s name
was Fry. Two of the kitchen girls
were named Lamb and Veal, and one
of the waitresses was Hart.”
—“New Idea.
And all good livers gathered
there.
“A refined woman would ukff
partly-furnished furnished room.”
—Suburban paper.
Arrears of rent will be paid
in advance.
“The little blonded do me”
“She was proceeded down the isle
by her two sisters, Jean and Shirley. ’
—Wedding report in suburban paper.
Surrounded by a sea of faces.
“It was at first thought that his
skull had been bractured.”
—Sydney Sun.
It was, however, found only to
be froken.
4* 4* .4*
“Another way of letting off steam,
Therese, is by going out and weeding
the garden when very annoyed, and
calling each weed by the offender s
name!” — Woman’s paper.
But such language is bound
to bring you to the dock.
Music Hath Charms.
“For improving relations between
patients and doctors traditional tunes
such as ‘John Peel’ Annie
Laurie’ have been best.”
Sydney Sunday paper.
When I must see my medico
just sing me old-time songs 1
know
About the sea and foam-flecked
schooners,
Not dirges by these modern
crooners ; \
For if the doc. must see my
tongue
I can’t have my poor feelings
wrung, . ' ,
And so all airs must be debarred
That make the patient swallow
hard.
And comic tunes must not con-
vulse
My frame with laughter, lest my
pulse
Should run like mad and misbe-
While doctor looks disturbed and
grave.
And when, no longer weak and
ill,
I look him up to pay his bill
I best can whittle the amount
With simple tunes of no account.
D.H.E.
Beaten.
“I could hardly get a boy-fnend
until I was tattooed with several
beautiful color designs. Boys
seemed attracted by the tattooing.
-r-Sydney Sun .'
He' bowed low with old-world
courtesy, pressing her soft, white
fingers to his lips. Heavens!
What was that upon her bare
shoulder! It couldn’t be! It
was! He gazed ardently at the
moonlight vista of the Taj Mahal
delicately tattooed in miniature.
Would wonders never cease!
He was enthralled, intrigued,
attracted. She made an undul-
ating movement, and almost
simultaneously his gaze shifted to
a bird’s-eye view of Sydney com-
plete with harbor bridge and
State lottery-office. The color-
design wa§ beautiful.
With feverish intensity he
traced a rambling mural stretch-
ing from the Heads to La
Perouse. As he reached Central
railway station his excitement
was almost uncontrollable, car-
ried away as he was with the
color tints. He was about to
check his watch with the time in
the clock-tower, when with an
impatient gesture she raised her
fist and beat a sharp tattoo on
his head.
JONAS DILL.
Topsy-Turvy.
“Daughter Follows in Father s
Footsteps.” —Sydney “D.T
Alack-crday ! We are undone !
Once Pop was followed by the
son, '
But now (the import makes me
sad)
The daughter’s emulating Dad.
But, brothers, there is worse to
come.
If modern modes for nice
yojung men
Are taken as an omen, then
The son’s about to follow Mum !
P.O.M.C.
The Invalid.
“Every European Foreign Office
is asking anxiously what Russia’s
Deputy Foreign Minister, M. Vishin-
sky, is doing at Carlsbad, the Czech
resort for invalids. A member of
the Red Army staff at his Soviet-
controlled hotel, at which M.
Gromyko and Poland’s Prime Minis-
ter, as well as 30 official-looking
foreign visitors are also staying, told
a correspondent that M. Vishinsky
was gravely ill with a nervous dis-
order.” —Sydney “D.T .”
M. Vishinsky glanced at his
watch, and it was patent by the
way he leaped out of bed and
began tearing into the punching-
bag and doing some strenuous
skipping that he was' suffering
gravely his usual rude health.
After a prolonged session his
private collectivised, masseur
worked on him for half an hour,
after which he tosspd off a dip-
perful of vodka. The very fact
that the draught caused him to
cough slightly afforded further
proof that the bad health he
was enjoying at the famous in-
valid resort might at any time
take a turn for the better or
worse, as the case might be.
After having been shaved and
dressed by his collectivised valet
M. Vishinsky dragged himself
down the stairs four at a time, a
veritable valetudinarian. Enter-
ing the dining-room he haughtily
acknowledged the deep obeisance
given by the head-waiter in
token of the equality enjoyed by
all in the only true Democracy
behind the Iron Curtain, and
proceeded to demolish eight-
course breakfast, pathetic in-
signia of that frail health of his.
The startling deterioration in
the Soviet Deputy Foreign
Minister’s well-being was made
manifest by the fact that he*was
compelled to wait fully 10
minutes for his food to digest
before he laughingly tottered
into a room on the long table
of which agenda-papers had been
set out before each of the
assembled foreign-looking visi-
tors, who stood, clicked their
heels together, gave the clenched-
fist salute and shouted “Heilski!
as M. Vishinsky almost fell into
the chair at the head, one hand
supporting his emaciated face
and the other resting on his bow-
window.
With his ruddy face proclaim-
ing that pernicious anaemia to
which he had obviously long
been a martyr, the Soviet’s No. 2
diplomat opened the proceedings.
In the interests of that friendly
solidarity, said M. Vishinsky,
which it was essential the
Western plutocratic imperialist
warmongers should observe
marked the relationship between
all member-States of the Eastern
Democratic bloc, the Fiihrer in
Moscow had decreed that the
economic ties which bound them
all ; with the exception of the
arch-traitor Tito, must be drawn
even tighter.
To this end M. Stalin had
graciously agreed to let all
members of the Cominform have
Russian wheat at the bargain
price of world parity, plus
freight calculated on a basis of
f.o.b. Sydney, plus a 50 p.c.
special stabilisation surcharge,
plus 30 roubles per bushel to
cover Soviet administration ex-
penses.
Also, to give encouragement
to those countries which wisely
preferred the concrete advan-
tages of trade with the Soviet
instead of falling into the trap
of accepting Marshall Aid gifts,
and thus putting themselves
under Wall-street’s orders for
war, M. Stalin, went on M. Vish-
insky, in a further burst of sheer
generosity had agreed to take all
the coal produced at the equiva-
lent of ss. sterling a ton. Thus
by paying such a high price for
a commodity which they would
otherwise experience great diffi-
culty in selling Moscow was
once again demonstrating that
the welfare of her neighbor-
countries was its only concern.
As the conference went on it
was obvious from M. Vishinsky’s
broad smile, which contrasted
with the deep gloom reflected on
the faces of all the other seekers
after health, that the Deputy
F.M. was in the throes of yet an-
other hypochondriacal seizure.
It was when the conference
had adjourned after the chair-
man had given stern orders to
the invalids to present themselves
on time after lunch that the real
state of M. Vishinsky’s nervous
system was demonstrated.
He had gone up to his room
with M. Gromyko, and was just
about to discuss with his col-
league the chances of bumping
off Molotov should he get
the succession after Joe
wriggled out, when he
happened to catch a
glimpse of metal among the
vaseful of forget-me-nots. In-
vestigating, he discovered a dic-
taphone. M. Vishinsky began
trembling violently at his narrow
escape, and began to wonder
whether it was planted there on
the orders of Stalin, Molotov,
Zhukov, Andreyev, Mikoyan or
Malenkov, or even Gromyko.
One might have thought that he
would have been desperately in
need of a drink, so it might par-
donably have been thought that,
when he was heard a bit later
saying “No! No! No!” his
nerves must have got to the stage
that he was going “bats.”
Not so.
It was merely that M. Vishinsky
was getting in some practice for
the next session of the Security
Council, just in case the veto
might have to be exercised.
BO.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4j|d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
“It's Silly to Work”
One of the main causes of the present
high cost of living is that we have far
too many unproductive people. What we
need are a few less on paperwork and
idealistic planning and a great many more
on actually making things. Today’s creed
is to get the maximum return from the
minimum of effort. Everyone is bent on
securing a “nice, clean” job and leaving
the dirty jvork to those who have not
enough “ambition” to rise above it. In
fact, it has come to the stage where people
regard it as almost silly to do hard
laborious work even if it is useful. This
accounts, to a great extent, for the influx
of young people from the country to the
city.
In the factories you will find girls and
women producing the goods while men
keep their time-sheets and work out the
subtle intricacies of ledger-keeping.
Transport departments cannot secure suf-
ficient men to man their vehicles, but they
have no dearth of able-bodied males
working out statistical details and effi-
ciency systems that only prove their effi-
ciency to produce deficits.
Even in the services there are plenty
offering for commissioned rank, but very
few takers of the more humble “other
ranks.”
All this may be an economic problem,
but it does not appear that it will be
solved by economics alone. The moral
outlook will have to change. If everyone
looked on the usefulness and productivity
of his work with the same degree of pride
as he does his bulging pay-envelope and
reduced hours of working, then the
economists might he able to do something
to overcome this lopsided state of affairs.
Neither legislation nor arbitration will
effect the cure. It will have to come from
the individual himself —maybe too much
to ask of ordinary men and women who
live in an age of uninspired leadership.—
J. M. C. (N.S.W.).
Wind
In reports of many recent storms in
Australia I have noticed that winds of
velocities as low as 40-odd m.p.h. have
done extensive damage—blown down
walls and chimney-stacks, lifted off roofs,
etc.
The Standards Association of Australia
rules that the values of wind velocity for
calculating pressure shall be taken as
80 m.p.h. for all Australian capital cities,
and based on data of maximum wind
velocities for other places.
Why then is so much damage done by
winds of comparatively low velocities?
Is it that the standards rule is not always
used? Or is it that the rule does not
give sufficient margin to allow for de-
terioration? — Taswegian (Tas.).
Teachers’ Pay
New rates for Victorian teachers in-
dicate aij almost complete sell-out of the
lower-paid secondary men in the Vic-
torian Teachers’ Union.
The schedule has been hailed as a
victory for the primary teachers, who
form the majority of the V.T.U. and
many of whom believe that secondary
teachers have too many periods “off,” that
secondary-school teaching is “easy,” that
primary education ranks equally in im-
portance with secondary education, and
that qualifications do not make better
teachers, anyway.
Most of those beliefs arise from sheer
ignorance and inexperience. The bulk
of the preparation periods come from the
longer hours of the secondary service.
Primary classes commence later and dis-
miss earlier; or, if dismissal times are
the same, have a longer lunch-hour.
It is hard to understand in what respect
secondary teaching is “easy.” No stage
of instructing is easy. Dr. Johnson
wrote in his “Essay on Milton”:
Nobody can fie taught faster than he can
learn. The speed of the horseman must be
limited by the power of his horse. Every
man that has ever undertaken to instruct
others can tell what slow advances he has
been able to make, and how much patience
it requires to recall vagrant inattention, to
stimulate sluggish indifference, and to rectify
absurd misapprehension.
These remarks apply with particular
force to secondary schools, in which many
pupils, for some reason or another, reach
what appears to be their maximum of
intellectual achievement, beyond which
they progress only with great difficulty.
Behavior arising from inability to grasp
advanced work creates disciplinary prob-
lems among adolescents, which the
pripaary teacher, used to bringing his
babies to heel quickly, rarely encounters.
On the ground of the importance of
every stage of education, primary teachers
are on sure logical ground. As an argu-
ment for equal pay, it is blatantly Com-
munistic. In practice it will be found
that for every teacher who has the, mental
capacity successfully to instruct Leaving
Honors pupils in mathematics there are
a hundred who caflt lead the third-grade
to a mastery of the three- to 12-times
tables. Regard must be paid to merit in
this respect, otherwise merit will remove
itself from the teaching service to better-
paid spheres.
Lack of qualified instructors has been
the “Old Man of the Sea” to secondary
education. Much of the poorer work
in secondary schools is due to the pre-
sence of so many unqualified “tempo-
rary secondary teachers” who, because
of lack of knowledge, have to be allotted
the important basic grades.
While qualifications are no great help
to a primary-school teacher, advanced
knowledge is the very core of instruction
in secondary schools and the Education
Department demands that its secondary
teachers have university degrees. If
degrees entitle lawyers, dentists and
doctors to high rates of pay, why are not
secondary teachers, some of whom are
more highly qualified than many mem-
bers of those professions, equally entitled
to consideration?— Experienced (Vic.).
Double Demurrage
The brains of the N.S.W. railways have
thought up a corker to hasten the turn-
round of empty trucks. This is a charge
of £2 12s. on four-wheeled trucks and
£5 4s. on eight-wheeled trucks placed
ready for unloading at 8 a.m. Saturday
and not released the same day. Country
merchants would probably help the rail-
ways by unloading on Saturdays if they
were told on Fridays that the trucks
would arrive, but the railways say it is
impossible to say when the trucks will
come in.
The merchants are stuck with the 40-
hour five-day week, and most business-
houses are closed on Saturdays, so even if
they engaged special gangs to unload the
trucks, paying double-time to them and
the carriers, they would also have to open
up their stores to take delivery of the
goods. So the trucks will probably lie
in the yards, and the extra charges will
be paid by growers and producers, for
whom most of the goods are transported.
But think of the revenue for the rail-
ways ! — Riverina Rita (N.S.W.).
Reckless Farming
I don’t hold with “reckless methods
of farming” any more than “Castlereagh”
and his authorities do (B. 5/l/’49), but
circumstances and conditions often force
farmers to take considerable risks.
Sugar-cane growing is the main occu-
pation in the Mackay (c.-Q.) district.
After a plant cane crop has been har-
vested (any time from July to December),
Either that mirror goes or I go! "
the vacant land is usually cultivated to
start a ratoon crop, which should, with
cultivation and fertiliser, yield a similar
tonnage to the plant crop.
This year in the Mackay district heavy
rain fell when the harvesting was finish-
ing—in early January. The ratoon pad-
docks could not be worked, and became
a mass of summer grass within a few
days. It was obvious that the only way
to beat the grass was to take the pony
mouldboard plough and cut a furrow up
and down each side of each cane-drill,
turning the grass under in the inter-row
space.
Some farmers did this while the ground
was soft, regardless of the threat of
further rain. They were taking a serious
risk, for, had heavy rain come, water
would have rushed down the furrows
and washed away tons of soil. But the
rain didn’t come, and, as soon as the
turned-under grass was dead, the farmers
scarified the drills to level them again.
Now the paddocks are clean and the
ratoons are coming away well enough.
But the farmers who did not “plough
away” from their ratoons cannot do so
now because the ground has dried and
hardened. They can’t get rid of the
grasses, and their ratoons are largely
ruined.
It was mainly the small-scale farmers
who took the risk of causing serious soil-
erosion by “cutting away” when heavy
rain threatened. Their excuse is simply
that the cost of living compels them to
get the maximum amount of income
from their farms each year.—W. C. (Q.).
Drift from the Country
“L.P.” is right when he says that
people go where they are best treated (B.
19/1 /’49). The amazing thing is that
there are any people left in the country.
Rural workers in njy district are under
an award which calls for 56 hours a
week compared with the 40 hours of the
city worker. Why? Because, we are
told, the national economy could not
stand a 40-hour week. It would mean,
among other things, an extra shilling a
pound on the price of butter.
Butter is only an example. If the drift
to the city continues the time must come
when the population of the cities will
starve because there is no one to grow
the wheat, the cattle and sheep, or milk
the cows which provide our food.
Will such a famine be necessary to
make the Government realise that coun-
try people must have all the benefits that
city dwellers enjoy—shorter hours, better
homes, electricity, better transport, more
and better facilities for entertainment, city
prices for everyday requirements and all
the other advantages which city folk
enjoy.
Decentralising industry and pushing
factories into country towns may help
by bringing “the city” closer to the rural
worker, but it is not the complete cure.
The drift will continue, from rural areas
to the newer and bigger country towns.
Ultimately it may be necessary to re-
duce the standard of living in the city
in order to increase the standard in the
country, but that is preferable to starva-
tion, It is better to pay an extra shilling
for a pound of butter than to have no
butter to buy.— Mullum (N.S.W-).
The Building-trades
“Deebunk” (B. 19/l/’49) is right
when he says the lowering of our
standards ,is obvious in the “near-enough”
conduct of our business and industry
generally. In no industry is it more evi-
dent than in the building-trade.
It’s high time steps were taken to insist
upon proof of craftsmanship by artisans
employed in the buildingrtrades before
they are permitted to accept employment
or become members of the unions con-
cerned. From personal experience I am
convinced that building-trade unions
don’t give a hoot whether or not an appli-
cant for membership is a qualified trades-
man. As a matter of fact, few applica-
tions for membership are received. Any-
one employed on building work must join
up or else.
Unions are not concerned about quali-
fications—their sole aim is increased
membership and the added political
power it assures. Fifty years ago an
applicant for membership of a trac
union had to submit his indentures, or
vouched for by two members who knev
his capabilities.
Competent craftsmen are rare the
days, and the standard of work genera
is shocking. The housing position is
acute that homeless people will acce
any jerry-built structure that provici
shelter.
I lately submitted a price to comple
a job, left unfinished by a carpenter,
whom a home-builder had paid £lB
wages. To make a satisfactory job all ti
work had to be pulled down, and ti
home-builder’s £lB was a complete loss
Another client asked me to inspect h
new home, in which the plastering of tl
chimney-breast in the lounge-room hat
been ruined by a leaking roof. Inspe
tion disclosed that the plumber, paid fo
a completed job, had neglected to cemen
the flashing-joints in the chimney, <
scandalous omission.
Electricians, sanitary plumbers, ga
fitters and drainers, all are licensed afte
examination, and are held responsible fo
faulty work performed by them, or b
those working under their supervision
Why aren’t carpenters, bricklayers, tiler
etc., also obliged to pass a competenc
test?.— Pongo (N.S.W.).
Housing Costs
Three years after I started buying lane
for building, my house was completed, a
a cost far higher than I had feared
my most pessimistic moments. Lookin
back, I can see that the main causes fo
the increases in costs over my origina
estimates were;
Delays of three or four months (in each
pf three applications) by Treasury officials
in approving or disapproving land pur-
chases.
Failure of Prices Controllers to control
real prices for building materials.
Failure of State Governments to provide
shipping facilities for importing timber
from Tasmania (where huge stocks of
flooring were available) to Victoria, where
flooring could be had only from the black-
market.
Introduction of the 40-hour week, with
its disastrous effect on production and
costs of essential commodities.
Strikes by employees in joinery shops,
metal-workers, coalminers, wharflaborers
and others.
Increases in marginal rates for trades-
men.
Increases in the basic wage (up three
shillings nearly every three months over
the last year).
After reviewing the circumstances, over
none of which my builder had any
control, I feel lucky that the house die
not cost a great deal more and take twice
as long to build. After all, every single
authority or organisation, trade-unions
not excepted, which had any say in the
matter did its.level best to hinder things
and to make the ultimate cost as burden-
some as possible.— Wusslean (Vic.).
The P.M.G.
The P.M.G.’s Department may render
a splendid public service and drag in a
considerable amount of revenue, but it is
the most parsimonious branch of the civil
service. A good deal of its profits are
accumulated at the expense of its tem-
porary employees, mostly mail contrac-
tors and unofficial postmasters.
In very few instances can a mail
contractor or unofficial postmaster live
on the money received for postal services.
Mail contractors, especially in country
districts, eke out a living by delivering
goods, etc., en route. Unofficial post-
offices are generally controlled by shop-
and storekeepers. Some unofficial post-
masters receive as little as £1 10s. a week,
and for this provide office-space and post-
ing receptacles; receive, dispatch and
issue mail, stamps and postal-notes and
receive and often deliver telegrams.
One mail contractor, paid £4 10s. per
week, provides a motor-vehicle and, as
well as delivering and picking up mail-
bags, delivers letters, etc., along a five-
mile route.
No wonder the P.M.G. can declare
such profits.— Ognop (N.S.W.),
Differing Viewpoints
From Britain comes the disillusioned
cry that politicians and bureaucrats are
now the only people who are permitted
and willing to work long hours them-
selves in order to prevent others from
working beyond the hours decreed by
their new masters. Instead of cryiqg
“scab” when Sir Stafford Cripps works
all night to forge a new set of fetters
for the criminal who prefers to work
longer than a union decree, Labor is, at
present, full of admiration for his in-
dustry. The Chifley Government may
be less fond of work than their British
counterparts, but they are equally "all
there” for any benefits that may accrue.
Witness Mr. Chifley’s dictum that 16 p.c.
is not at all too high as the reward for
“Labor” investments. The 5 p.c. offici-
ally approved applies only to investments
made by people outsides the magic circle,
—E. & O.E. (Tas.).


“K-e-ek! P-e-ek!” Moonrag himself
shouts, calling him back.
Sam partly returns. The sunshine
dances in his eyes from down on the
shimmering water. The wrist he holds
is the handle of the hoe. The parapet
is the sandstone wall, with the heat haze
skipping along it.
“K-e-ek! ” Moonrag shouts again, wel-
coming him back.
“All right,” Sam tells “No need
to shout your head off.”
The tone reassures Moonrag. He
draws his head down on to his black
neck
There is a note of cunning in Sam’s
voice: “So you reckon you are Trooper,
do you? All right, then—you are
Trooper. You’re Trooper himself, aren't
you? There’s a pair of boots stuck out
of the tent”
Sam breaks off and pokes his thin head
forward at Moonrag. He can see him-
self close in Moonrag’s white-ringed eye.
He feels he has him now. He’s in there
and he’s got him; he’s found him.
Sam’s stare or the questioning has
scared or offended or embarrassed Moon-
rag. He part-lifts his wings and flapping
them fast floats off to the far end of
the new-dug bed. There he looks about
on the ground, peering closely at the
back of a larger clod the rake hasn’t
broken.
SAM is not misled. He has no
thought that Trooper might be lurk-
ing behind such a poor bit of cover. He
has a strong feeling, a complete con-
viction, of where Trooper is. He takes a
couple of short steps towards Moonrag,
saying quietly, “You know as well as
I do.”
It seems to excite Moonrag. He lifts
into the air, and belting fast with his
wings circles the width of the garden
and lights on the sandstone parapet.
There he calls out at the top of his voice,
still flapping his wings, “P-e-ek!
P-we-e-e-e! ”
“All right,” Sam shouts at him in mock
anger. “No need to get your shirt off.
If you want to know, I don’t think you’re
him at all. You’re only a bird. That’s
all you are! Only a bird. You’ve never
heard of a tent, have you? Garn, fly
away! You’re only a bird!”
Those insults flung, Sam turns to a
tomato-branch he has noticed threaten-
ing to break with the weight of its green
cluster. He fishes a piece of string from
his pocket and bends over the branch,
tying it up.
He feels the sudden swish of wings and
the peck at his neck.
“Here, you—get to hell! ”he calls out,
laughing.
The joke is on Trooper. Sam enjoys it
hugely. Laughter fairly shakes him.
“Pulled your leg properly that time,”
he says, “didn’t I? Calling you a bird!”
Moonrag is back on the tomato-stake.
There is a silence between them.
Housing Settlements
South Australia has reason to be proud
of its State housing schemes. In one dis-
trict hundreds of desirable residences have
been erected on what was practically
waste land. Road-making was left until
most of the cottages were occupied, with
the result that the tenants were compelled
to wade through dismal swamps in the
wet season and over ruts and rubble in
the dry times. Priority was granted
to married couples with children. The
nearest shops are far distant. Owing to
the difficult nature of the terrain deliveries
are few and irregular. Personal shop-
ping, especially for women with infants,
is a test of endurance.
In the centre of the community are new
premises to accommodate a butcher, a
grocer and a chemist. For some time
the buildings have been almost ready
for occupation, and the prospective
tenants have been prepared and eager to
move in. The surrounding householders
are looking forward with longing to the
day when the doors will be opened for
business.
But —and here is where the fly in the
bureaucratic ointment appears the
planners have decided that the new shop-
ping centre, within easy walking distance,
will not be available until the last house
in the colony is finished.
When that will be no man knoweth.
Meanwhile the potential customers, many
of them with infants in arms or toddlers
at foot, must walk long and uneasy dis-
tances to obtain the necessities of life. —
Bushed (S.A.).
Training Nurses
Hospital discipline is the real basis of
discontent, despite perpetual grumbles
over pay, meals and hours. Few outside
the profession can realise the power for
misery possessed by a few in authority.
The new nurse is everybody’s target, and
the weaker spirits give in at this stage ;
progress increases her prestige, also her
responsibilities and attendant worries,
which she takes out on those beneath
her. It is a vicious circle, and little can
be done about it. Fortunately, there is
much to compensate for the furtive tears
behind the pan-room door or few would
stick at it.
A grievance in many hospitals is the
feeling that a nurse’s time off is not her
own. In a training-school one or two
lectures have to be attended in off-duty
hours or a day off ; the roster is changed
or overtime up to two hours added at a
moment’s notice. Most absurd is the un-
written law which decrees that a nurse
doesn’t sign-off until about a quarter of
an hour after she is due off duty, even
though she has finished her work. Dis-
cipline is certainly essential where human
life is concerned, but too often it is only
a name for bullying.—Six Years of It
(Q.).
Total War
I’m a great admirer of “Ek Bum’s”
writings, but he is rather naive when he
says (B. 19/1 /’49) that the British always
set their faces sternly against the de-
struction of ordinary citizens. By what
other terms could those “saturation”
thousand-bomber raids on German cities
be described?
The raids were justified because the
wheel has turned a full circle, and, just
as the savage tribes of olden days would
put to the sword every noncombatant
captured, so today civilians, by their
very presence and work in the enemy
country, are legitimate military targets.
They are also vulnerable targets. Ger-
many’s raids on London might have won
the war for her if she had only been able
to keep each phase going a little longer.
On several occasions civilian morale,
beaten down by sleepless and fear-filled
nights, was at a dangerously low level.
I know —I was there part of the time and
my wife all the time.
There is only one philosophy applicable
to war. If we must have it we must make
it as total as possible. The greater the
“They’re practically perfect.
blows we can deal and the less mealy-
mouthed we are, the more likely we are
to win and save lives of our own people.
—No Sirrah (Q.).
“Amicus Certus”
This year the A.M.P. Society celebrates
its centenary; and, apart from bene-
fits provided for its thousands of members
and policyholders, there are few people
in Australia today who have not bene-
fited directly or indirectly through its
many ramifications.
In the last hundred years most Aus-
tralians have been educated to appreciate
the value of financial security for old age
or adversity. Superannuation and pen-
sion schemes are the direct outcome of
A.M.P. propaganda. Agents of the
society drafted out schemes for system-
atic saving by employees in public ser-
vices, factories and offices. Group pay-
ments were devised whereby trifling
amounts were to be deducted weekly from
wages and accumulated for individual
benefits. These systems have become
almost a national characteristic; most
offices and factories now have some kind
of scheme to provide for the retirement
of staff who have outlived their useful-
ness. The establishment of other assurance
companies in Australia has, of course,
helped to spread the doctrine of saving
for future contingencies.
Many Australian men and women are
being trained in actuarial science and the
technique of finance. This specialised
training originated with the A.M.P., and
officers of this society still do work of
national irnpoitance when financial in-
vestigations are being undertaken.
The society has lived up to its motto of
Amicus Certus in Re Incerta, and has
been a certain friend to hundreds of
thousands of individuals. As well as the
millions of pounds paid as assurance
claims, the society’s funds have helped to
build houses, make roads, build bridges,
establish industries, develop and stock
new country, establish water-supply and
sewerage, and to finance two wars with
loans to the Government.
Few institutions in the world can have
had such a remarkable career, commenc-
ing without any capital, no company for-
mation, no shareholders and with an
honorary secretary and honorary direc-
tors.—C.E.T. (N.S.W.).
Root of the Matter
A public-opinion poll, held by the
American occupational authorities in
Japan to discover where
Japanese would like to go
as immigrants, if given
freedom of choice, pro-
vided evidence in sup-
port of “Ek Bum’s” and
Peter Russo’s contention
that the Japanese are far
less impressed by the
importance of Australia
than our Government be-
lieves (B. 12/1/’49). The
U.S.A. won hands down
as first choice. Aus-
tralia wasn’t even a bad
second, only a small pro-
portion of those ques-
tioned expressing any
desire to settle here
Kanimbla (N.S.W.).
No doubt Government
undertakings, taken all
round, are more efficient
than many private firms
(B. 19/1/’49). But for
an effective comparison
private industry must be _
considered as a whole.
There are so many pri-
vate concerns in a par-
ticular field of industry that there is
bound to be substantial variation in effi-
ciency. The various units in a Govern-
ment enterprise, however, are under one
general control and do not show such
divergence in standards. In the long run
a private concern, being dependent on the
making of profits and forced by competi-
tion to give service to the consumer, must
show efficiency or be faced by disaster. —
Economist (N.S.W.),
An idea of how hard Melbourne
wharfies work can be gauged from their
handling of 100,000 super, feet of timber
on a trading ketch recently. Working
overtime until 7 p.m. each day, 14 water-
siders had little more than half the hard-
wood out of the hold after eight days.
Then the wharflaborers were wanted else-
where, so the crew of eight—including a
cook and mate who had other work
took the rest of the timber out in little
more than a day.— Lower Tops’l (Vic.).
It is time something was done in regard
to the eligibility of candidates seeking
election to Pastures Protection Boards.
If we are to keep the country clean of
rabbits, burrs and other pests, it is neces-
sary that the men controlling the inspec-
tions and prosecutions should not them-
selves have pest-infested holdings. How
can a man vote to prosecute a property-
owner for weeds or rabbits when he him-
self is in the same case? — Piccolo
(N.S.W.).
“New Stater” (B. 19/l/’49) seems to
know a lot about the history of Australian
politics, but he is off the beam when he
tries to mix the “problem” of the Murray
Valley with the problem of gov-
ernment. He says the solution “lies
with the people of the Murray
Valley themselves.” The problem of the
Murray Valley is, the problem of irriga-
tion and development of hydro-electricity,
and, as I said before, it begins on the
Queensland border and ends at Adelaide.
.From my reading of David Lilienthal the
T.V.A. had unlimited power, but the
aim of T.V.A. was not to develop irriga-
tion, but rather to develop power. There
is no reason why we should'not have a
supreme authority, free from the influ-
ence of changing Governments, to
develop our water resources, and as Mr.
Chifley has said nearly 200 millions will
be spent iii the next generation on the
many jobs, it seems that we must have
such an authority, if there is to be con-
tinuity of effort. —B. P. P. (N.S.W.).
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 3
ACROSS.
I — Fruit for 25/-. (4,6)
6 —This heavenly fellow causes no-
thing but a hullabaloo. (4)
10 —Wealthiest cabinet of Rhode
Island. (7)
II — Behold the heart of one of
Nature’s hunchbacks is a chemi-
cal compound. (7)
12 — Othello returns to the chamber.
(4)
13 — G.I. is upset among the locks of
these she-cats. (9)
15 — Pen, before ten, the place where
the ferrying business is dead. (4)
16 — This felon is giving a demon-
stration of gigantic strength. (10)
19 —Former employees of the laundry
give tongue to their ideas. (10)
21 —It means work to any musician
in the soup. (4)
23 —Little Agnes and French gold
have the same heart as 13 across
and seem just as willing to pick
a fight. (9)
25 —Song. (4)
28— The erudite Edward Lear, as
named on his school’s rolls? (7)
29 — There is an hotel in this town
that Shannon splits in two. (7)
30 — This measure of power allowed a
kettle to boil. (4)
31 — Athletic contest shut up most of
29 across. (10)
(CRYPTIC TYPE.)
(Solution in next issue.)
DOWN,
1 — Strongholds for the hair. (10)
2 Only six see the conservative
win. (7)
3 The ship’s company imitated the
rooster. (4)
4 These birds give nothing to the
very good man, notwithstanding
their wealth. (9)
5 Pleasanter refrigerant in the heart
of it. (5)
7 Wettest plague in the water-store.
(7)
8 — It runs a long way with nothing
before the East. (4)
9 Cat’s lip (anagram). (7)
14 —Part of the bread card on an in-
habitant of the sea. (10)
17 — Piercing fabric upset in a favor
of an insect. (9)
18 — The summons to a light evening
meal —isn’t it ripping! (7)
20 —Run round the hotel calling out
for the insect in the colorful dis-
play. (7)
22 —Cook to strike up the inflamma-
tion. (7)
24 —“The has withered from the
lake, and no birds sing.” (Keats)
(5)
26 — Lady-chaser is upset by such
fluent running. (4)
27 — Girl of note, as signed on by
most people of account. (4)
SOLUTION TO CROSSWORD No. 2.


\
■ m
m
m
m
i
'
m
H
■
industry apprentice
lilt this boring mill to help keep
Australia's railways rolling.
Learning a Trade
the Steel Industry Way
IKE to share the pride of these apprentices? Then learn a trade
with the steel industry. In the course of their training they have
built six of these boring mills at the Newcastle works of the
Commonwealth Steel Co., Ltd. The mills play a vital role in the
production of steel wheels and tyres for Australia’s railways.
What these apprentices have achieved demonstrates the practical,
interesting and creative approach to apprenticeship training under
the steel industry’s Staff Training Scheme—a scheme which provides
you with expert instruction on the most modern equipment. You do
the job, learning by practical experience.
You, too, can take advantage of the industry’s apprenticeship
training experience, special facilities and skilled instructors to gain
for yourself an assured, well-paid future in an expanding industry.
Opportunities exist for apprentices in
• Moulding 4
• Boilermaking
• Blacksmithing
• Plumbing
® Carpentry & Joinery
• Fitting & Turning
• Electrical Fitting
• Electrical Mechanics
• Turning.
• Bricklaying
• Tinsmithing
• Painting
• Coppersmithing
• Fitting & Machining /
• Patternmaking
A Steel Industry
Apprenticeship
Means
★ Self-contained apprentice
shops for some trades, with
your own messrooms, change-
rooms, lockers and showers.
★ Refund of fees on successful
completion of your Technical
College trade course.
★ Award wages, plus good-
conduct bonuses.
★ Living allowances if you
have to board away from
home.
★ Eight hours a fortnight time-
off to attend lectures on full
pay.
Train for YOUR future with the
AUSTRALIAN STEEL INDUSTRY
Apply NOW to the following:
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.—Head Office: 422 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Newcastle Steel Works: Newcastle P.O. Box 196. Commonwealth Steel Co. Ltd.: Waratah, N.S.W.
Australian Iron & Steel Ltd.: P.O. Wollongong, N.S.W. Rylands Bros. (Australia) Pty. Ltd.: Newcastle P.O. Box 245.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.: Box 21, Why alia, S. A.
