

ROYAL PU
•m
jifi.idg'vi fift
"Wf-
, /rM 'tj
A PRODUCT OF THE
ĵ
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 70— No. 3633
Wednesday, September 28, 1949
Priqe 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
TN a lonely valley of the Lancashire
A Lake District in what was once known
as the Vale of Deadly Nightshade stands
the magnificent ruins of the abbey of
St. Mary of Furness. It was founded in
1123 by Stephen, afterwards King of
England ; the monks were of the Order of
Savigny in Normandy who later adopted
the Cistercian rule.
The Furness Abbey buildings were
conceived and carried out on a magni-
ficent scale with beautifully carved and
decorated stonework. Even today the
rose-colored sandstone walls look impos-
ing against their background of green
hills and trees. So large were the pos-
sessions and income of this religious
establishment that it was surpassed in
importance only by Fountains Abbey.
The estates and privileges of the Abbey
were confirmed by 12 successive kings
and the Abbot of Furness exercised vice-
regal power in the district; he held the
appointment of chief constable for the
Liberty and could dispose of ships
wrecked on the neighbouring coast. In
order to maintain his power and defend
the coast and the Castle of *Piel, the
Abbot kept a large retinue of servants
and armed followers. In Parliament the
Abbots of Furness ranked as lords, but,
owing to the isolated situation of the
Abbey, they did not often sit in the great
council of the kingdom.
This imposing building, now in the
care of the Commissioner of Works, in-
cludes a church, chapter house, cloisters,
infirmary and Abbot’s house: it possesses
some of the earliest known freestone
effigies of knights in armour—although
they have for centuries been exposed to
the elements, they are today practically
undamaged.
Calder Abbey in Cumberland and
Rushen Abbey on the Isle of Man were
colonised by bands of monks from Fur-
ness Abbey.
STILL NOBLE IN DECAY IS STATELY FURNESS ABBEY.


Lki
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining . how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 249 .AOE.
The Red Page
MOUNTAINS FOR ALL.
To the nature-hater, a book about
mountains will bring a shudder of antici-
patory anguish ; for mountains are boils
which draw together all humanity’s
vertigo, yodelling hikers and talk about
scenery. But to Mr. Arthur Groom there
is only one thing more desirable than a
mountain, and that is One Mountain
After Another (Angus and Robertson).
We are first shown Captain Cook
naming Mount Warning, near what is
now the Queensland border; and then
we are marched off to follow Captain
Logan’s and Allan Cunningham’s efforts
to find Mount Warning from their base
at the new Moreton Bay settlement. What
Logan had mistaken for Mount Warning
turned out to be an entirely new range.
Cunningham corrected Logan’s mistake
by naming the new range the Macpherson
Range, thus substituting wrong spelling
for wrong mountains; and then went on
to give to the McPherson Range moun-
tains a series of wrong names, for Cun-
ningham’s “Clanmorris” is known to
every child today as Mount Maroon;
his “Mount Hooker” is today Mount
Lindesay ; and his “Mount Lindesay” is
today’s Mount Barney. It is a sad thought
that an explorer of a hundred years ago
would be ploughed in a primary-school
examination on his own discoveries.
For countless centuries, the Ugarapuls,
the Wangerriburras and the Kombumerri
avoided the confusions of such unseemly
haste after knowledge; they lived peace-
ably in the shade of the mountains, they
had “no ‘boong’ tracks into the heart of
the cloud-topped mysterious ranges,” they
welcomed the white men at first, and
then, after a set of mutual murders, were
hunted, often by troopers of their own
race, and wiped out.
Much as the nature-hater may admire
the wisdom, and regret the demise, of a
people with enough commonsense to
leave mountains alone, he must not think
too hardly of New South Wales surveyor
Isaiah Rowland and Queensland surveyor
F. E. Roberts, who jointly pushed through
and over this mountain wilderness in 1863,
carrying with them the then-equivalent
of the Brisbane Line—the line which was
to divide New South Wales from Queens-
land —for although, as Mr. Groom points
out, Roberts was a wonderful bushman,
he was there for business and not for
pleasure ; moreover, it was as a result of
his efforts that the greater part of the
McPherson Range was excluded from
New South Wales.
But now that the McPherson Range
had been roped-off from New South
Wales, there arose prophets crying that
the wilderness should be roped-off from
Queenslanders, in the form of a National
Park. Robert Martin Collins, having seen
Yellowstone National Park in America,
spent his life unsuccessfully in this pro-
ject ; and then Romeo Watkins Lahey
succeeded, in 1915, in having 47,000 acres
of the McPherson Range proclaimed and
created Lamington National Park.
Recital of this history brings us to the
crest of Mr. Groom’s obstructionist pre-
liminaries, from which the second half
of the book unfolds before us as the
exciting and almost incredible story of a
man’s love for a mountain, how, leaving
Central Australia’s cattle-runs in 1925,
Mr. Groom spent a holiday at the
O’Reillys’ guest house on top of the Mc-
Pherson Range, grew to love Mount
Roberts seen from afar, helped form a
company to possess it, and put a board-
inghouse on top of it so that all and
sundry might be invited to come up and
see it sometime.
About this time, 1931, R. W. Lahey
was forming a National Parks Associa-
tion of Queensland ; parties of professors,
scientists rnd other distinguished citizens
were dragged out to spend cold nights and
wet days in Cunningham’s Gap National
Park, where Mr. Lahey “went to the
creek and shaved, after breaking the ice,
with cold water, common soap and no
mirror,” and Mr. Groom spent the night
alone on top of Mount Lindesay:
You do it by getting down with your
back to something solid and remaining
still—completely still —with arms folded,
defying all desire to move
In 1932, they began planning “a chain
of accommodation centres in natural
settings, built of materials to harmonise
with the background, giving full or partial
service as desired for the lowest possible
figure to the greatest possible number.”
Then it was decided to begin with just
the one place, and to buy Mount Roberts
for £3500, 178 acres of jungle rising to
2589 feet —in the tradition of McPherson
Range geography, Mount Roberts is not
the Mount Roberts shown in the end-
papers of the book, but Binna-Burra, four
or five miles away from the O’Reillys’
place.
A company was suggested to get
£15,000 to buy and work the mountain.
but “only nine hundred shares had been
placed in~ small parcels” when they
organised a camp of more than 100 people
at the proposed Binna-Burra .site for
King’s Birthday weekend, June 3, 1933.
A line of people who walked up the
muddy mountain in pitch darkness and
drizzling rain were gathered around camp-
fires at 9 p.m. on the crest of the moun-
tain to hear a lecture, by Romeo Lahey
on the hopes and plans of the organisers.
The King’s Birthday camp was fol-
lowed by a Christmas camp for 80 people
in tents, one a marquee, the other made
of old sails, which leaked under the
heaviest Christmas rain for years. In a
galley made of galvanised-iron which had
been manhandled up the steep goat-track,
and which blew away in the heavy
weather, a miraculous cook produced hot
meals without fail. After thunder and
lightning and a raging storm on Boxing
Day, a terrific wind blew the tents to
pieces. Even Mr. Groom thought it was
time to retire. But the public is a strange
animal:
“What! Close the place down?” an
elderly lady exclaimed. “I’m having the
time of my young life”
By special request, the camp was kept
open for a total of six weeks. Thus en-
couraged, the organisers formed them-
selves into a limited company, and the
three working principals agreed to work
at £1 a week putting a road to the crest
of the mountain, and building proper
accommodation there. They ran their
materials up the side of the mountain by
flying-fox; they made huts from tallow-
wood, bloodwood, stringy-bark and black-
butt ; they dismantled old houses at
Canungra village, and hauled up doors,
windows and water-tanks by flying-fox.
For their 1934 Easter camp they had
a large dining-room and recreation-room
40 feet by 28 feet on top of the mountain,
and a kitchenette ; and although they lost
money at first, and their Brisbane
accountant would from time to time get
an urgent call to go out and sell some
more shares, they seem to have - pros-
pered. The war, which cut down on
development of National Parks, brought
them their greatest number of visitors:
some 50,000 American and Australian
soldiers.
The book is illustrated with some 40
page and half-page photographs of moun-
tains, trees and waterfalls, and a reader
who is not a nature-hater may find much
to admire in Mr. Groom’s descriptions
of the trees, birds, clouds, sunsets, pano-
ramas, orchids, ferns, waterfalls, natural
bridges, underground streams, white
caves, etc., with which he fills out his
book.
Vinegar Joe .
“A first-rate fighting soldier and one
of the really outstanding characters of
the war,” writes the British Major-
General Fuller in an introduction to
The Stilwell Papers (Macdonald), the
private records (“printed in the raw”) of
his command in China left by the late
Lieut.-General Joseph W. Stilwell, U.S.
Army,
Stilwell detested “the frocks” quite as
much as Britain’s Henry Wilson in World
War I, and he registered his feelings in
the blunt language of the field. He
might not have got on with Mont-
gomery—he got on very badly with all
“Limeys” except Slim —but in Stilwell’s
situation Monty would probably have
bucked in much the same way. “Vinegar
Joe’s” favorite passage in Shaksp'bare—
and his wife, a grand woman, flies it like
a pennant at the book’s masthead —is
Hotspur’s excuse to Henry IV for (as Joe
would say) having kicked the King’s
diplomats in the pants.
Stilwell died soon after his return to
America follpwing recall, in October,
1944, from his post as senior American
commander in the China-Burma-India
theatre which he had held through' three
exasperating years. He was “chief-of-
staff” to Chiang Kai-shek as a matter of
status; his wider duties entailed organis-
ing the supply of American war material
to China, keeping China in the war
against Japan, and training Chinese
divisions to fight. Chiang he generally
referred to in his diaries and in conversa-
tion with his own countrymen as
“Peanut,” and that was the mildest of his
terms. All Britishers are “Limeys” and
generally “s.o.bs.” as well. All political
conferences talk “crap.” With utter im-
partiality his pages “debunk” all the
public’s political heroes, Roosevelt in-
cluded; but nothing caused such a stir
as his destruction of the idol which the
American Press and people had made of
Chiang Kai-shek.
“Vinegar Joe” was undoubtedly a
“cough-baU,” as his Western countrymen
used to say. But in his essential job he
had to pay the penalty for being right
and saying so. Finally either he or the
myth of Chiang Kai-shek’s China had to
go, and jesting Pilate ran true to form.
Stilwell it was who planned the cam-
paign which retook north Burma; he
personally conducted the fateful opening
operations with his own-trained Chinese
troops and Merrill’s American Marauders
—taking the offensive when everybody
else was in a shivering funk that the Japs
would enter India —bullying, coaxing,
cursing, pushing and putting the fear of
the “Old Man” into his Chinese officers
•on the first fighting offensive a Chinese
army had hitherto undertaken, and win-
ning through. Then, when the Big Shots
decided to exploit his operations, and
the Japs were throwing in the towel in
Burma—when victory there was assured
’ 'Vinegar Joe” was called home. And
arriving there, because he might tell the
truth, he was treated as a suspicious
person by his own Government.
Like the first William of Orange of
Motley’s description he was, in the job
to which he was called, “fed with annoy-
ance as though with a spoon.” The name
“Vinegar Joe” may have been given to
him by his troops, but it was they and
not the politicians who smiled when say-
ing it. He was rough as bags, as the
Diggers used to say, but brimming with
energy and courage, and didn’t give a
damn for any backslider however ele-
vated. Some of his notes are sheer joy
to the reader:
Colonel Earthworm Chen has been
figuring tonnage. He says, “You know,
there are limes when a 3-ton truck weighs
as much as a 20-ton tank.” This bird is
executive for the War Minister! McCam-
mon said, “Now, if you have a 2000-lb.
cow, and she stands on one foot on a
bridge, how much will she weigh?”
Chen’s idea was she would weigh 5001 b.
[Calculations for a troop movement.].,..
A brief experience of international
politics confirms me in my preference for
driving a garbage truck
I once took my family out for dinner,
and told them to order what they wanted.
Ben, six years old, at once said, “Roast
duck.” Seemed a bit heavy for his age,
so I suggested cream of wheat. He leaned
back and said, “Duck.” Then the family
pitched in and suggested some nice spinach,
or vegetable soup and mashed potatoes.
He said, “Duck.” I made one more
attempt, to which he answered, “Duck,”
so I then wiped the perspiration off my
brow and ordered duck. He had never
heard of Joe Stalin, but he knew the tech-
nique.
April, 1944. [Japs attacking towards
Assam; front giving way everywhere;
“Vinegar Joe” decides on offensive deep
into Burma, aiming at Myitkyina.] Louis
[Mountbatten], to put it mildly, has his
hind leg over his neck. If they don’t buck
up on their side we also will have our tit
in the wringer. What a mess the Limeys
can produce in short order! Take care of
this flag I send you. It’s the first Jap
flag captured by the Chinese in the first
sustained offensive they have ever made
Sept. 19, 1944 [just before Stilwell was
“thrown on the garbage heap”]. Mark this
day in red on the calendar of life. At
long, at very long last, F.D.R. has finally
spoken plain words, and plenty of them
[in a message Stilwell was instructed to
deliver personally to Chiang]. “Get busy
or else”: A hot firecracker. I handed
this bundle of paprika to the Peanut and
then sank back with a sigh. The harpoon
hit the little b r fair in the solar plexus
and went right through him. Beyond turn-
ing green and losing" the power of speech
he did not bat an eye. He just said to
me, “I understand.” And sat in silence,
jiggling one f00t... .After I left, Chiang’s
screaming began, and lasted through the
night.
But the Peanut, or rather the Ameri-
can conception of Chiang Kai-shek, won
the day and Stilwell was recalled.
The verbatim report of Stilwell’s con-
ference in Cairo with the President and
his staff on Roosevelt’s return from
Tehran—where a drastic alteration was
made in Burma-offensive plans agreed to
at the immediately preceding Cairo con-
ference—is a devastating document and
a ghastly reflection on Roosevelt’s wan-
ing powers. The question promptly
raised is: If this is how Roosevelt was
after Tehran, what must he have been
like at Yalta a year later?
Poems for Children .
Adventures in Poetry (Shakspeare
Head), selected and annotated by Clare
Kinsella and Donald McLean and illus-
trated by Jill Blunt, is a gay little book in
which file standard English poets, the
Australian balladists and some contem-
porary Australian poets are mingled with
one simple purpose: to give pleasure to
children.
The editors have not attempted to make
a critical and comprehensive selection of
Australian verse. Along with ballads by
Ogilvie, Paterson and Lawson, the writers
included are Kenneth Slessor, Elizabeth
Riddell, Douglas Stewart, Norma Davis,
Flexmore Hudson, Nancy Cato, Musette
Morell and Frederick T. Macartney.
One could wish to see many other con-
temporary Australians included. But
then, we have had too many dull, stuffy
anthologies in which the editors have felt
obliged to do their duty by the entire
poetic f output of this country; and we
have had too few anthologies like
Adventures in Poetry, which is not meant
to be a kind of national museum but
simply a personal choice from the world’s
poetry of what will suit and please a
particular audience.
And; however much one may regret
tfie omissions, it is certainly pleasing both
in principle and practice to see Australian
poetry, which is our special heritage, thus
mingled with the English tradition which
is our common intellectual back-
ground . . . with Shakspeare and Shelley
and Browning, with Davies, De la Mare
and Auden. The practice is growing in
Australian school anthologies, and the
same principle is to be observed in the
choosing of Australian poets for study at
the universities.
A generation will grow up which will
know—to its profit and delight— not only
Masefield’s “Cargoes,” not only the im-
petuous balladry of “The Man from
Snowy River,” but also Kenneth Slessor’s
enchanting chronometers from “Five
Visions of Captain Cook”:
Two chronometers the captain had,
One by Arnold that ran like mad,
One by Kendal in a walnut case—
Poor devoted creature with a hangdog face.
Arnold always hurried with a crazed click-
click.
Dancing over Greenwich like a lunatic;
Kendal panted faithfully his watch-dog
beat
Climbing out of Yesterday with sticky little
feet.
But while they thus set out to enrich
the young with a knowledge of Aus-
tralian poetry, Miss Kinsella, Mr. McLean
and Miss Blunt have been far too wise
to attempt to be didactic. There are, it
is true, two or three questions asked on
an otherwise blank page after most of
the poems ; but these are intended to in-
terest rather than to daunt; and there are
also outline drawings in black-and-white
which the young are invited to color.
The book is intended both for schools
and for the home.
Fred Broomfield's Duel .
Writing in his clear-headed way, W. E.
Fitz Henry has contributed, perhaps, the
best appreciation yet published of the
late Roderic Quinn (R.P. 31/8/’49).
Down one Red Page lane, then into
another; a holiday walk for ourselves
and for his biographer; with the poet be-
tween. While we march others join in
~. Lawson, Bedford, Brereton, Ogilvie,
Daley, Adams, Dyson; cum multis aliis.
Journey never to be forgotten; a
profitable one to boot; insomuch as we
now know Roderic better than we
thought we had done before.
The Quintessence of Quinn.
Fitz Henry deserves praise; and his
appetite for stories of the ’nineties might
be satisfied. Under approbation, then,
let us offer the first of a possible series.
A midnight walking-stick duel.
Principals: Jim Ryan versus Fred
Broomfield. Ryan, a small-part actor
and freelance journalist; also brother to
Australian singer Marie Narelle. Broom-
field, Dumas’ fourth musketeer and one-
time sub-editor of The Bulletin.
Seconds: “Red Page” Stephens; and
“Aboriginalities” Alex Montgomery.
The meeting-place, under an electric-
light- pole at the corner of Bridge- and
George-street ... in the small hours, a
silent part of town ; no policemen ; build-
ings with facades, higher than Colosseum
walls, dwarfing four or five onlookers,
immobile as bits of washing pegged out
on a line.
By contrast, the fighters appeared alert
and in earnest; and, at the moment of
my arrival, I saw blood across Jim’s
knuckles and a straight line down Fred’s
neck. The clash of sticks, furious at first,
had dwindled to cuts at the buttocks, or
else knighthood taps along the shoulders.
Then, all at once, Jim changed from
monotonous wallops to unexpected rapier
thrusts, one of which snapped off that
waistcoat button nearest Broomfield’s
heart. Fred’s screams “Not in the
stomach, Jim! Not in the ” might
have been heard at Circular Quay, curd-
ling the waves to Milson’s Point; while
Jim, conscious of loss of honor, laid his
stick flat to the asphalt and sprinted to-
wards the G.P.0.; past the G.P.0.; past
the Market Buildings ; past Goulburn-
street . . . past all belief . . . and, at this
precise moment, I seem to hear him still
running . . . running . . . running.
Hugh McCrae.
[A different version of this duel appeared in
a “Society” par (B. 31/8/’49), where Rod Quinn
was stated to have fought with Broomfield.
The par-writer, consulted, says that he wasn’t
there and Hugh McCrae was; so McCrae
should know.]


•TRUTH IN sy ADVERTISING
—
- —
V v..' '
■ «%''■ •: :wf
iiiili
'
©
■V;?- f
, f i
/ t
I/
. W ,' "
•• ■:■ -:•:
‘
: ••
■:■:•: :•
t;?'
-:. r?v^v
• •- ■
$.v: -..:
.
..
Wii#--
aW?
•:. ...
.. . ■ :
Traditional hand carved
Above.
Chippendale Desh carved in traditional
design and fitted with five drawers, inset glass top.
49in. x 23in., 30in. high, Mahogany finish. £5l.
Chair upholstered •in Red, carved back. £2O/14/9.
Hall Table has Cedar finish. £22/14/6.
Chippendale designed Furniture
SUITABLE FOR HOME OR OFFICE
V/
mm
, ■
Left.
Foolscap Filing Cabinet. Finished
in Medium Oak colour. Cabinet with
two drawers is priced at £ll/13/-,
the four-drawer cabinet is £l7/16/6.
Right.
Single Pedestal Writing Desh.
35in. x 19in., and 27in. high, has four
drawers and is finished in Medium Oak
colour. Priced at £6/13/-. Stationery
Cabinet with six compartments is all
steel, fireproof, enamelled Olive Green,
£2/3/-. Office Chair has “D” type up-
holstered seat, and is finished in a light
or dark colour. Price, only, £3/19/9.
l >
■v
w*
HORDERNS’FURNITURE DEPT.—THIRD FLOOR. ’PHONE: M 2401, DAY OR NIGHT; BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


The Bulletin
Vol. 70—No. 3633
Wednesday, September 28, 1949
WHEN THE PIE WAS OPENED THE BIRDS BEGAN TO SOAR


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
MENZIES VIEWS THE £.
At this time of day it would be merely
redundant to say that Mr. Menzies con-
tributed by far the most enlightening
speech in last week’s Budget debate ; his
theme the devaluation of the £ and
certain possible effects, advantageous or
the reverse; his own first interest very
clearly the long-range effects on British
Commonwealth strength, security and
unity.
Except for some brief preliminaries—
acknowledging Mr. Ward’s inestimable
service to the Opposition parties’ election
prospects by projecting bank nationalis-
ing as the livest of issues ; and a crushing
of Mr. Haylen underfoot in a gutter of
this grubbing member’s own fouling—it
was so far above being a party-political
speech that the crowded House and
galleries, and it might be hoped a million
or two radio listeners as well, heard it
throughout in complete silence.
It was, none the less, certainly an elec-
tion speech; being based on a main
plank of the Liberal (and Country-party)
platform—the urgent national imperative
of getting value back into the £ by in-
creasing production per man-hour. For
all the difficulties in Britain, that essential
has to some extent been achieved there;
here in Australia production per man-
hour has not only not increased, it has
fallen,.
The Opposition did not challenge (said
Mr. Menzies) the decision Mr. Chifley
had had to make on the difficult problem
posed by the “very heavy” devaluation
of sterling in terms of dollars. But the
British Chancellor’s decision, in the first
place, was “not perhaps so immediately
intelligible.” To the doubt thus implied,
Mr. Menzies added the emphasis of
designating the 30 per cent, devaluation
as much greater than anyone expected.
Necessarily (at this stage) on a basis of
assumptions, he implied a formidable
series of further doubts regarding the
prospects of attaining the objective —
bridging the dollar gap—by that desperate
throw. His views condensed:
Assuming that the American market re-
sponds to lower prices, that American
tariffs do not stand in the way, and that
competitive measures are not taken to pre-
vent the benefits of devaluation, one would
expect to see increased sales of British
goods in the United States.
Let us assume that there will be increased
sales—what increases will be necessary if
this tremendous experiment is to be a
success? A devaluation of 30 per cent,
means that Great Britain has to sell in the
United States 44 per cent, more goods to
raise the same amount of dollars as she
had been raising.
So, for every 1000 cars they were sell-
ing, they will have to sell 1440 before they
break even and get the same amount of
dollars. In fact, they will be worse off—
it will mean more work for less dollars.
The implications in those comments —
of considerable doubt as to the practica-
bility of the approach, anyway—would
seem distinct enough. In the first place,
will American business, close-pressed by
such serious competition in its own
national preserve, conceivably stand for
it; or will there presently be pressure on
official U.S. quarters to the partial or
fatal detriment of the whole scheme?
Again, on Britain’s side, it must mean not
only more work for fewer dollars, but at
the same time the using up of more
materials of all kinds ; and can these dis-
advantages be offset by the gains?
In any case, to make the approach at
all (on that apparently dubious, possibly
impracticable, and as yet entirely doc-
trinaire theoretical basis), “There will
have to be a great productive development
in Britain ; and, if they are going to have
a great productive drive, they will have
to take drastic steps to increase individual
output”—that is, such “drastic steps” as
direct incentives, tax easing, wage stabi-
lising and the like, to ensure or inspire
what has been here called increased pro-
duction per man-hour.
And in view of all the circumstances —
the actual possibilities of Britain’s pro-
ductive machine as a whole; the mount-
ing threat to a living standard that can
be called good only in comparison with
Russian standards; the palpable increase
of inflation that has already set in; the
naturally human insistence by the patient
British worker that he be not now denied
such standard as he has; and, above all,
the fact that there already has been, de-
spite everything, a notable increase in his
output —in view of all this, can any steps,
whether “drastic” or alluring, achieve the
vast, needed increase, or is the whole
thing a fantastic dream?
But, said Mr. Menzies, in effect, assum-
ing that all such assumptions as those are
sound—in short, that the British trade
invasion of America is successful—what
of Australia and New Zealand in this
Crippsian scheme of things? Hitherto
these countries have been great receivers
from and great suppliers to Britain in a
well-balanced flow of trade. We need
those British products, as Britain needs
ours. But the bid to sell on the conceived
scale in the dollar area might well affect
Britain’s capacity to export here.
It might hold against this line of argu-
ment that Britain, in point of fact, has
exportable goods enough to meet both
demands ; there were enormous quantities
stacking up prior to the devaluation plan
for helping to clear them off. But when
such accumulations are gone, will
Britain’s capacity be then equal to the
dual demands? On this, Mr. Menzies
implied further considerable doubt. Aus-
tralia and New Zealand would have to
increase their exports to the dollar area,
too, in the same proportion as Britain.
He referred, as well, to other markets
being also necessary, and to a possibility
of former enemy countries slipping into
the breach vacated by Britain.
Thus, in these and other of its aspects,
the devaluation experiment, in the Liberal
leader’s view, gives rise to a series of sub-
sidiary problems, all of them requiring
firm, or drastic, action if the whole
desperate scheme is to succeed. “Devalua-
tion may give a breathing space, but it
is far from solving the problem” of the
dollar gap. Mr. Menzies sums up:
Britain cannot get away with this de-
valuation expedient unless there is a rise
of production in Britain sufficient to enlarge
its American market very considerably, and
sufficient to maintain its exports to coun-
tries like Australia that, in the long run,
are of immense and permanent importance
to Britain.
We will have a sharp increase in the cost
of our own dollar imports, which include
petrol, tobacco, timber and machinery. On
the other hand, we hope to have some
benefits: some increase in the sales and
price of wool; benefits on wheat and a
substantial increase in the gold price.
But, balancing these advantages and
disadvantages, there are the real dangers
which must be met. Unless the U.S.
demand for our exports increases by 44
per cent, we will be no better off in terms
of the dollar. To the extent that devalua-
tion steps up our income from abroad
there must be an inflationary tendency
arising from those matters which will tend
to force up wages, prices, and costs gener-
ally.
I believe that we should concentrate on
the expansion of productive industry by
every means available to us. These means
include incentive payments in industry, and
there is a strong case for some revision of
company tax to allow for expansion.
Finally, we must have industrial peace.
These things can produce for us a higher
real national income.
The real index to national prosperity,
Mr. Menzies accurately insisted, is to be
found in production figures. The. most
urgent task of Government is that of
getting value back into the £ by increas-
ing production per man-hour. And, to
whatever further degree that may be prac-
ticable in Britain, here in Australia, with
an actual decreased-production gap to
begin on, it is certainly feasible enough,
when a fresh hand takes the helm.
Socialisation a Reality.
The word “socialisation” was scarcely
known to the average 1946 voter when
he went to the poll. All that the better-
informed knew was that somewhere in
the heart of the A.L.P. programme the
word was embedded as a vague, imprac-
tical and distant aspiration. The tradition
of Chifley the moderate was then still
paramount —the Chifley who went to the
polls giving a solemn assurance that he
had reached the limits of his plans in
banking legislation, and that no more im-
portant legislation bearing on banking
was in contemplation.
Yet all the time behind the scenes
“Labor” had been preparing for socialisa-
tion. The Federal A.L.P. conference in
1943 had carried on the voices—one of
them being that of the then Prime
Minister, Mr. Curtin —a resolution that
“a nation-wide campaign for Socialism
be started immediately, and that the im-
plementing of the campaign be left in
the hands of the Federal Executive.”
The 1944 N. S. Wales A.L.P. confer-
ence had plumped for “socialisation in
ten years” on the motion of Mr. W. C.
Taylor, a close personal friend of Mr.
Chifley, and a director of the Common-
wealth Bank. The acceptance of the plan
had been followed at once by Dr. Evatt’s
Fourteen - points - referendum campaign,
during which there were more assurances
that nothing drastic was contemplated.
It needed the introduction of the plans
for bank nationalisation in 1947 —plans
flung at the community in a 45-word
ukase one Saturday morning—to make
clear how far the Government was pre-
pared to go.
Now, two years afterwards, the mask
has been discarded. There is now no
attempt to hide the fact that the Govern-
ment’s intention is, frankly, socialisation,
and that as early as possible. This ad-
mission on the part of Ministers has not
altogether been united and voluntary.
Some there were who made it even while
the public faith in Mr, Chifley’s “modera-
tion” still lived. Mr. Dedman said in
March, 1943, that he was a Socialist and
proud of it; and it is curious now to
look back and notice how hurriedly the
then Prime Minister and Senator Donald
Cameron —who, incidentally, came into
politics originally via the Victorian
Socialist League—hastened to make it
clear that they were no Dedmans. These
delusive fellows professed that they shared
neither the views of that hater of “little
capitalists” nor those of Mr. Ward, who
was tramping the country swearing that
he would not remain in any Ministry
which did not, after the war and in the
interests of his “beloved soldiers,” pro-
ceed immediately to introduce bank and
coal nationalisation as the first steps to-
wards turning Australia into a Little
Russia.
However, all the hesitants have gradu-
ally been dragged by their extremist
masters to the trough to drink the Socialist
brew. All their intentions up till a few
weeks ago fitted comfortably within the
ambit of Mr. Calwell’s pithy sentences:
“(Capitalism is collapsing and we are
going to take over. We will pluck the
fowl.”
Members of the Government have
gone too far to repudiate socialisation as
an immediate objective, but they are
beginning to attempt to leave those who
are bound to suffer most numerously by
their plans under the impression that
socialisation is not really socialisation, but
merely a sort of selective process under
which the capitalist wolves will be ex-
terminated and the “democrat” sheep will
fatten.
The manifestations of the A.L.P.’s pre-
election attitude are about as barefaced
and desperate as can be imagined. They
are evident in a campaign which is quietly
but thoroughly in progress, and which
was opened by Senator McKenna and
by the official organ of the party in Mr.
Chifley’s own State in June, to settle in
the minds of electors a belief that an
“interpretation of socialisation” makes it
far from the frightening thing it is. This,
supposedly inserted in the A.L.P. plat-
form, prescribes that Labor will intro-
duce “collective ownership” for the pur-
pose of “preventing exploitation, and to
whatever extent may be necessary for
that purpose”; that private ownership
will be opposed by the party “only where
it is a means of exploitation” ; and that
no attempt will be made to abolish it —
even “ownership of the instruments of
production where such instruments are
used by the owner in a socially useful
manner and without exploitation.”
It was actually asserted in the “Standard
Weekly” (mouthpiece of the N. S, Wales
branch of the A.L.P.) on June 17 last,
while the annual conference was still
fresh in public memory, that a de r
claration embodying these reservations
on the objective had been “written
into the platform of the party......
and reaffirmed at the triennial con-
ference last year.” But the actual
facts are that the sponsors failed
to carry the interpretation in 1921 by
two votes, that a careful perusal of every
edition of the platform issued since does
not reveal any sign of its being “written
in,” and that so far from its being re-
affirmed at the 1948 triennial conference
the motion covering it was withdrawn
without even being put to the vote.
The Federal “Labor” platform supple-
ments its bare statement of the objective
as “socialisation of industry, production,
distribution and exchange” with proposals
for compulsory unionism, with planks
proposing “complete control of banking
and credit in the hands of the nation,”
the “investment of Commonwealth Par-
liament with unlimited legislative powers
and authority to create or reorder States
or provinces with delegated powers.” It
is proposed at once to nationalise “bank-
ing credit, insurance, including sick,
accident, life and unemployment, ship-
ping, public health, wireless, sugar re-
fining” and some other matters.
The official programme openly aims
for the “utilisation of real wealth
through national control of its credit
resources.” Yet in face of all these posi-
tive plans, stated in cold print, which
envisage the fastening of the grip of the
soviets of unions on the throat of every
Commonwealth Government, A.L.P.
organs have the face to suggest that there
is no intention to interfere with private
property not used for “exploitation,” and
the spokesman of -the Ministry, Senator
McKenna, asked electors to believe in
June that:
The idea of an all-powerful State con-
trolling all industries and all employment
and, therefore, the lives of all the people,
though it will appeal to Communists or to
ruthless financiers, is wholly repugnant to
the aims of the Labor party. The Labor
party believes in freedom.
Like smoke it does, as anybody who
makes a study of its actual platform can
convince himself in 10 minutes!
The Labor party, so-called, has changed
very little since the day at the 1928 con-
ference when a Federal attempt to ban
the advocacy of Communist ideas was
rebuffed by a resolution of the N. S.
Wales branch of the party which stated
“that whilst the policy and methods of
the A.L.P. and the Communist party are
at variance, the objective of the two
parties is identical, i.e.. socialisation of
industry.” As late as January, 1947, the
Labor official organ exulted in Stalin’s
recognition of the truth that though
British Commonwealth Labor and Com-
munism “are in the nature of things going
about our business in different ways we
both have the same ultimate object.
Socialism.”
By “Socialism” each party means ex-
actly the same thing, and it is well that
it should be understood how closely knit
“Labor” and Communism are behind all
the powder play of public contests.
The outlook of the Labor party, which
is so soon to face the electors, was almost
certainly accurately expressed by the
statement of Mr. W. C. Taylor, Mr.
Chifley’s intimate adviser, when, in 1944,
he introduced the resolution for sociali-
sation in 10 years:
The Labor party did not exist to pre-
serve for individuals the vested interests of
jobs and positions, but to achieve socialisa-
tion for the common good.
The electors should understand that by
socialisation the party means complete
and utter socialisation; the kind of
socialisation which Moscow and its recent
delegate to A.L.P. conferences, Mr.
Healy, favors. In practice, there can be
no other kind.
Neglected Nth. Queensland.
During the war against the Japs N.Q.
residents felt that both Brisbane and Can-
berra would learn a lesson and that the
half-century of political neglect of the
North would end. It hasn’t. In fact, it
tends to increase.
Formation of a North Queensland
Development League a few months ago
sprang from a conviction that the rot
would have to stop. Somewhat alarmed.
Premier Hanlon then toured N.Q., but
returned saying the N.Q.D.L. was “feeble”
and he’d found nothing but satisfaction
with his Brisbane Government. Never-
theless, Mr, Hanlon is touchy about N.Q.
Some Hanlon Ministers have also found
occasion t® have a look at it; they, too,
have returned to Brisbane saying every-
thing is all right. It isn’t. Out of 33
towns and shires in N.Q. all but 10 have
lost population, and in the 10 the in-
creases were nothing to write home about.
Treasurer Larcombe has said that in some
cases the percentage increase in popula-
tion was greater in N.Q. than in Brisbane.
Census figures of 1933 and 1947 show
that, whereas the percentage increase of
Brisbane’s population in the 14 years was
34, that of the eight largest Queensland
towns averaged out at 26; the four
main N.Q. towns (Rockhampton, Towns-
ville, Cairns and Mackay) averaged at 25.
The North Queensland Development
League holds that N.Q. lost two-thirds of
its natural increase of human population
between 1933 and 1947 ; that there are
fewer livestock ; maize and tobacco areas
have declined, and the sugar area is down.
State and Federal Governments can
help, if they want to, with more money
for roads, weirs, bridges, power-plants,
etc., but neither can take population by
the scruff of the neck and heave it into
the North. Without population N.Q. can’t
attract industries, money or political
favor. It won’t get population unless it
can offer newcomers a better living than
they can get in the south. The only
answer seems to be a new State.
N.Q. people claim that their area is as
rich as any other part of the continent in
natural wealth, that the wealth is not be-
ing exploited and that the indifference
of distant Governments is a main cause.
As a separate State the political indiffer-
ence could be overcome, tax money allo-
cated for local use and attractive bait
held out for immigrants, both from other
parts and overseas. But if North Queens-
landers wait for Brisbane to hand them
a new State on a platter they’ll wait for
ever.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Minister with Two Left Feet.
Of all the embarrassments Caucus ever
wished upon a “Labor” Prime Minister,
E. J, Ward must be at least a neck and
a tongue ahead of the field.
He added to past ripe notoriety dur-
ing the recent coal strike, when, almost
alone among the Ministers, he held aloof
from the Government’s actions —and got
away with it.
During that crisis several Ministers
were loud in their threats of what the
Government was going to do to the Com-
munists. No sooner had Parliament re-
opened after the recess than Mr. Ward
was telling the House that he did not
“share the opinion of some honorable
members that there is a real menace of
Communism in this country.”
On that Mr. Menzies:
That is the view of the Government —
that there is no real menace of Commun-
ism in this country—and that remark was
made right on the heels of a coal strike
that was advertised by the Government
itself as the product of a Communist con-
spiracy. It was a coal strike in which this
nation lost £100,000,000-worth of produc-
tion and in which the employed people of
this country lost probably more than
£30,000,000 in pay. I should have thought
that any movement that could produce
those results in Australia should be re-
garded as a menace to Australia.
Despite brave words during the strike.
Government inaction since supports the
Menzies claim that the Minister spoke
for the Government. Marx House
was raided early in July and Mr. Calwell
proclaimed that the Government had all
the information it needed. He threatened
“the ratbags of Marx House” with jail.
No more has been heard of that.
Mr. Ward also told the House:
As long as the Labor party stands by its
decision, the nationalisation of banking will
be brought about. Tests of the constitu-
tionality of Labor’s proposal may be made
by certain authorities, but surely no honor-
able member opposite would argue that
any authority is greater than the voice of
the people. If the people continue to
return Labor Governments that are pledged
to the nationalisation of banking, why
should not such a policy be put into effect?
Until Mr. Chifley elects to speak out,
Mr. Ward’s speech must stand as the
Government’s policy on bank nationalisa-
tion ; which no doubt it is.
Anyway, it cannot be brushed aside as
the personal opinion of a scatter-brained
Minister. Thanks to Mr. Ward, there is
no way out for Mr. Chifley: he must
accept it or repudiate it.
Show in Melbourne.
Opening in what might be called “de-
valuation week,” Melbourne’s 101st
Royal Show hit the right note in display-
ing the land products without which this
country would have been broke long ago
and upon which it has to depend to sur-
vive devaluation.
Early September rains saved Victorian
and southern Riverina wheat crops, put
pastures in good heart and practically
ensured a good season. All this set a
note of cheerful optimism, only dim spot
being the absence of children —kept away
by order of health authorities because of
the infantile-paralysis epidemic.
Though exhibitors and visitors may
lightly describe it as “the same old show,”
it never is, which is why thousands go
regularly and newcomers appear in
further thousands. In bad times, as in
better, it lifts the heart to look upon the
wealth of the soil and realise what a
good country this is.
Dr. Evatt's Successor.
Last year when Dr. Evatt was elected
president of U.N.O. Assembly the im-
pression was given in the Australian
Press that his new office represented the
peak of ambition for all the world’s
statesmen and that his election placed the
seal on his greatness.
This year Dr. Evatt was not present to
see his successor elected. He was at
home, chained to Parliament, strangely
silent. His only publicity was a large
display of photographs of him in the
million-dollar window of Australia’s
trade centre in New York and his picture
in Wisden, which obviously had con-
fused him with Neville Cardus.
Dr. Evatt’s year in U.N.O. was not
very successful. It was marked by an
almost universal unrest among the nations
which he shepherded and which seemed
anything but “united.” One of the great
Powers was blotted out by a horde of
Communist rebels in China. Others
were engaged in the Berlin Blockade, in
which the Doctor, disastrously to himself
and his reputation, intervened.
Sundry others were too busy with local
assassination and civil war to be very
much concerned with what happened at
Lake Success, and the gabble of the
Assembly was of little importance beside
the deliberations of the Western Nations,
which spent a busy year improvising
defence against U.N.O. member Soviet
Russia.
Last week Dr. Evatt was succeeded
by Dr. Romulo, who is built on
the same pattern—who might, in fact, be
described as the Evatt of the Philippines.
The Doctor’s only rival for office hailed
from Czechoslovakia.
Dr. Romulo is a journalist. He fled
his country with General MacArthur
in 1942, spent some time in Australia and
the rest of the war lecturing profitably in
the U.S. on his Philippine vicissitudes.
He speaks the same jargon as Dr. Evatt
and is as fluent in it as any Calcutta B.A.
Australia will wish Dr. Romulo well.
Anyone in that job can do with good
wishes.
Wheat and Devaluation.
Eyeing their ripening crops and worry-
ing about the price of fuel and lubricat-
ing oil, wheatgrowers should spare time
to contemplate that International Wheat
Agreement to which the Canberra Gov-
ernment committed them.
Under the agreement the top export
price for Australian wheat was fixed at
11s. 2d. a bushel for a year from August
1 ; bottom price, 7s. Id.; “adjustments”
each year for four years. The agree-
ment is so full of escape clauses that no
party to it is bound to either floor or
ceiling prices. The Government is, under
the “stabilisation scheme,” absolute
master of the growers’ produce—a grower
may not even keep his own wheat on his
own farm without official permission.
Devaluation of sterling brought forth
some curious views of the I.W.A. by
people who are supposed to know all
about it. L. Dorman, Wheat Board
secretary, said devaluation “automatically
increased the export price from 14s. to
205.”:
It is purely a nominal figure until we
get some further information on the effect
of the depreciation of the pound sterling
on overseas currency.
Mr. Dorman apparently either forgot
or overlooked the 1.W.A., since the ex-
port price was not 14s. when he spoke.
About the same time J. G. Crawford,
boss of the Agricultural Economics
“PLEASE, COMMISSAR, MAY I GO OUT?”
Bureau (Canberra), gave evidence on the
£lO-a-week basic-wage claim in the Full
Arbitration Court. On wheat he said;
It could be assumed there would be a
much greater market for wheat in the next
few years than before the war most
important of the industry’s safeguards is
the International Wheat Agreement....
devaluation would make the price for
Australian wheat [under the I.W.A.] 16s.
Bd. and 13s. 4d. respectively.
Judge Foster: The new arrangement
will mean a greater inflationary effect in
Australia?
Mr. Crawford: Not necessarily. Under
the wheat agreement the price can be fixed
anywhere between the maximum and the
minimum.
“Not necessarily”? Whatever the fixed
limits the effect will be inflationary with-
in Australia. But let C. J. Perrett, g.m.
of the Aust. Wheat Board, have a say:
Australian wheat will now sell [under
the I.W.A.] at a maximum of 14s. 6d.
instead of 11s. 2d. Devaluation of sterling
means that 1 Is. 2d. becomes 16s. Id But
I.W.A. limits are fixed on Canadian, not
American, dollars, and devaluation of the
Canadian dollar by 10 p.c. brings the Aus-
tralian export top limit back to 14s. 6d.
Well, that gives us three expert opinions
on the new maximum price—205., 16s. Bd.
and 14s. 6d. Next comes the Minister for
Commerce and Agriculture himself, and
his shot at the answer is 16s. Id. Mr.
Pollard said last week that the 10 p.c.
depreciation by Canada won’t affect the
price, which was fixed “in terms of the
Canadian dollar as at March 1, when it
was at par with U.S.”
While Mr. Pollard was speaking in
Canberra, the Wheat Board decided in
Melbourne that the problem was really
beyond a solution:
Pending clarification of the position by
the International Wheat Council, now sit-
ting in London, officials of the Australian
Wheat Board are not able to say what the
exact increase to Australian growers will be.
Plainly, our wheat will be dearer to
those importing countries which are
parties to the I.W.A. and have devalued
their currency. This could, through the
escape clauses of the agreement, send
them to Russia and Argentina in search
of wheat, neither being parties to either
I.W.A. or devaluation.
It’s a queer fact that ever since
“stabilisation” and the I.W.A. everybody
connected with wheat in Australia seems
to be like Clancy’s shearing mate regard-
ing Clancy—he don’t “know where he
are.”
A.C.T.U., Teachers and Corns.
According to kind, Sydney dailies
uttered loud or genteel huzzas over signs
emerging from last week’s A.C.T.U.
congress that the Corns are temporarily a
little unpopular in that quarter.
With the elections looming ahead it
pays “Labor” to foster that notion for all
it is worth, just as, when there was lush
sentimentalism for Russia, it paid “Labor”
to acknowledge, and even boast, of the
relationship now camouflaged.
Hence the Corns took “beating after
beating” on sundry matters of doubtful
significance; and the A.C.T.U. even at
last got into line with N.Z., Britain and
a dozen other countries in pulling out of
the Communist World Federation of
Labor.
A feature of these particular manoeu-
vrings calculated to give parents all over
Australia most serious misgivings was
that the Teachers’ delegates voted solidly
with the Communists, as anyone knowing
their outfit’s Communist domination
could have forecast with certainty.
But an even more significant feature
was that in the one really important
policy issue—that of incentive payments
towards increasing production and all the
fruits thereof —the Communists were
quite strong and influential enough to
muster the votes for outing it. And that,
of course, decides Chifley policy!
The A.C.T.U. £ommunist element
proved in fact so strong that it was able
to slow down the entire congress business,
exactly as it has slowed down Australia’s
whole productive effort, the congress end-
ing with most of the agenda untouched.
Mr. McGirr's Budget.
N. S. Wales Premier McGirr blamed
inadequate Commonwealth grants under
uniform taxation, and also labor short-
ages, for his having to budget for a deficit
of a million; but a lot of his financial
troubles he has brought on himself.
Actually, it was his vote-catching rush
to the 40-hour week in 1947 which started
the leaping rises in all costs. And in no
way has his Government attempted to
stop the rot in coal production, whence
spreads the general poison paralysing all
production.
Mr. McGirr claimed that increased
Commonwealth grants did not equal
basic-wage increases; but most of the
wage increases affect State transport ser-
vices, wherein the public has had to take
the load in outrageously increased fares.
Again, through all Mr. McGirr’s figures
increased expenditure is almost all
(<Continued at foot of next page.}


m
rniVEM^
liKAVliii A
—for your
throat’s sake!
Obtainable
in 10’s & 20'S
CARRERAS LTD. - OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
£S
6744
directly traceable to the 40-hour week.
Had a Federal election not been so
close, Mr. McGirr might have had a lot
more to say about the Chifley “Labor’'
taxation policy; he restrained himself
with obvious difficulty:
Uniform-tax reimbursement is inadequate
to meet the State’s rising costs. The gram
has risen by only £9,945,000 in eight years.
This doesn’t cover additional expenditure
arising from basic-wage increases estimated
at £10,000,000 a year. All other increased
expenditure has to be met from the earn-
ings of the State’s business undertakings
and other State revenue.
The “State’s business undertakings”
have suffered staggering losses; every
time they come to light the customers —
forced to use them because private com-
petition isn’t allowed —get the blame.
Everybody not employed in the transport
services believes them to be slow, uncom-
fortable, discourteous, overstaffed, un-
reliable, and without discipline.
Estimated railway losses, £2,835,000;
bus and tram losses, £377,000. Rail losses
to be met from Consolidated Revenue; Mr.
McGirr is “hopeful” of an “improvement’'
in tram and bus figures; a “vigorous
overhaul” is being made —it began with a
newly-appointed Commissioner making a
touching public appeal to everybody to pay
fares and give him “co-operation and sym-
pathy.”
Total estimated expenditure, £109,265,475
(up £10,517,206); revenue, £108,250,475
(up £9,338,539). ,
N.S.W. got £25,462,000 in uniform-tax
reimbursement for 1949-50; it got also a
cut from the £8,000,000 Mr. Chifley gave
the States to repair their coal-strike losses.
Mr. McGirr’s resentment towards Can-
berra is doubtless heightened by his know-
ledge of the Chifley-Evatt-Calwell belief
that State Parliaments should be no more
than provincial branches of the centralised
Government.
POLITICAL PIONTS
In asking the Broadcasting Control
Board to “re-examine” its order on
political broadcasts “in the light of many
representations that have been made
about it,” the Chifley Government has
virtually admitted that its scheme to
regiment the wavelengths in the Socialist
cause has misfired. The board had
done no more than carry out its instruc-
tions under last year’s Act. It is possible
that when- the bright boys of Federal
“Labor” thought up this plan for ensur-
ing themselves as much radio-time, paid
and unpaid, as they wanted, they over-
looked the fact that they could not deny
the Communists a similar privilege.
What is more likely is that they did not
foresee that by the time the Act came
into force their allies of two election-
and three referendum-campaigns would
be too great a weight to carry.
The decision of the Arbitration Court
that there should be no remission of the
fines imposed upon the Miners’ Federa-
tion, Waterside Workers’ and Iron-
workers’ Federation for failure to comply,
with court orders issued during the coal
strike was the only one possible. The
fines were incurred through the refusal
of the unions to pay into court sums total-
ling £54,700. The money was ultimately
paid in, but not until the strike was over
and the emergency legislation had ceased
to operate. The judgment said that “pay-
ment of the fines in the circumstances of
these cases cannot be. regarded as a purg-
ing of the contempt found against the
organisations.” Had the court remitted
the fines it would have placed itself in
greater contempt than any action of the
unions could have done.
A few weeks ago J. Healy, Communist
secretary of the watersiders, was deemed
to have purged his contempt of the Arbi-
tration Court and was accordingly re-
leased from Long Bay jail. Last week
he said to the A.C.T.U. conference “If
there is anyone here who believes in the
impartiality of the Arbitration Court I
say they should look back in 12 months’
time on that belief.” The purge doesn’t
seem to have done its work very
thoroughly.
It’s an ill devaluation that does no-
body any good. Widows of American ser-
vicemen living in Australia and former
U.S. servicemen doing study-courses
here will find their allowances increased
by about 40 p.c. And, unlike Australian
war widows, they won’t find inquisitive
officials prying into their private lives.
Recently the Prime Minister has
changed his tune on the possibility of a
dollar loan. His earlier attitude was that
he would not consider it; a fortnight ago
he was “examining the possibilities,” and
last week he announced that if any loan
was negotiated it would be for capital
expenditure only, not for consumer goods.
At the weekend Sydney “Sunday Sun”
front-paged a story that Britain and Aus-
tralia were to borrow 1000 million dollars
from the International Monetary Fund,
Australia’s share to be 150 million spread
over three years. When this went to the
printer “Fund officials” were being quoted
as saying the report was “highly un-
likely” ; there had been no denial from
Chifley. If there is anything in the rumor
Fadden will be entitled to claim a
victory; for months he has been urging
Chifley to take this course.
Sudden melting of the snows above
Steeple Flat and Adaminaby may be due
to the hot wave of indignation in those
parts because Snowy River people have
apparently been left out of the Canberra
crowd’s forthcoming ceremony to mark
the start of the Snowy River scheme.
But surely the men from Kosciusko know
by this time that Canberra has clamped
absolute priority on any form of lime-
light, whether generated by Snowy River
electricity or Parliamentary gas.
Press reports made much of the fact
that Communists were in a minority at
the A.C.T.U. conference, though there
should have been real concern that their
numbers were so high. With the aid of
swingers they mustered 120 to 150 votes
out of a possible 388 on most questions,
and when they brought up a motion
condemning incentive payments they
were able to muster 177 votes, sufficient
to carry the day. The Prime Minister
and some of his colleagues have given
guarded support to the principle of in-
centive payments, but apparently the in-
fluence of the Reds carries more weight
with the industrial wing of “Labor” de-
spite the allegedly crushing defeat of
Communism by the Government.
At the A.C.T.U. conference they were
talking about the status and pay of union
officials, and president Stout said he knew
a man who had said that union officials
should get only the basic wage:
This gentleman then went to America
and came back with an American accent.
Then he went to England and came back
looking and sounding like Oxford, and said,
“Why should a man in my position work
for this wage?”
Thornton (Red boss of the Iron-
workers) : Who is he?
Stout: You!
Then there arose those strange noises
defined as “uproar.”
The British Parliament is being recalled
from recess. To explain the likely effects
of devaluation? Or to announce a snap
election before the effects become too
apparent?
McGirr’s Ministry is still increasing in
numbers if not in wisdom; it has taken
advantage of the resignation of Baddeley
to bump up its strength from 14 to 15.
Victoria manages with a dozen Ministers,
Queensland wfih 11. In West Australia
McLarty has a team of eight, and Cos-
grove manages Tasmania’s affairs with
half a dozen, though both these States
use a couple of Honorary Ministers —
South Australia’s six get along without
that luxury. Spare wheels which, in the
McGirr set-up, scarcely seem to warrant
the extravagance of a full-time Minister
are Building Materials, Conservation and
Tourist Activities.
A few months ago an old coastal
steamer, Ngatoro, was sold to a firm in
the Philippines which sent down a crew
to take delivery. The Maritime Unions
Council thereupon declared the ship
black, insisting that it should sail with an
Australian crew, who would, of course,
have to be repatriated to this country
from Manila. After 87 days the new
owners paid £l2OO to the council, who
described it as an “indemnity payment.”
Shipping circles seem to think “blackmail”
a more accurate term. At the time it was
claimed that the money was to com-
pensate the Australian crew for loss of
employment. No member of the former
crew has received so much as a penny of
the “indemnity,” nor has it been shown
that any of them is out of employment.
Heartened by their success with the
Ngatoro, the Maritime Unions Council is
now trying the same game with the
Reynella, an Italian war-prize resold to
the Italian Government, and they appar-
ently have the support of the Federal
Government. Chifley told the Reps that
it was “a general custom for seamen of
a country selling a ship to sail it to buyers
overseas.” Nothing of the sort. If he
looks up the records of Australian ships
sold during the 20 years before his Gov-,
emment surrendered its foreign policy
and control of the waterfront to Com-
munist-controlled unions, he will find
plenty of cases where foreign buyers sent
crews to this country to take delivery of
ships.
According to Brisbane “Courier-Mail”
the New-State movement in North
Queensland will hold a convention in
Townsville within the next two months at
which a constitution will be drafted and
boundaries suggested. The secretary of
the North Queensland Development
League claims that agitation in the north
is “wearing a hole in the State Govern-
ment’s resistance.” That may be so, but
any interest the Brisbane Government has
been taking in North Queensland in recent
months must be balanced against the fact
that Hanlon will be facing the electors
in six months’ time.
A Brisbane magistrate found himself
having to impose a penalty he didn’t want
to inflict when an officer of a Danish
ship was charged with having an un-
licensed pistol. The facts were not dis-
puted. The officer saw wharflaborers
smoking in the hold of his ship, against
regulations. He told them to stop. They
shouted abuse and challenged him to stop
them. Fearful for the safety of the ship
he went away and came back with a
pistol. They stopped work. The pistol
had no magazine and was incapable of
being fired. The magistrate fined the
officer the minimum of £lO and said had
there been no minimum he doubted
whether he’d have imposed any fine,
adding to the officer, “You have had your
first experience of our waterside workers.
They could all have been charged with
an offence.” Well, why weren’t they?
Ashley had to tell Mcßride (Lib., S.A.)
that Commonwealth-owned and -operated
shipping lost nearly £ll millions in the
three years ended 30/6/’49. It’s but one
more item in the dreary procession of
losses on Government enterprises, and it
will become a mighty big one when
nationalised shipping really gets going.
These “Labor” chaps who are so
anxious to grab large properties and cut
them up for “closer-settlement” will have
to do something about E. W. Davis,
Labor member for Barcoo in the Queens-
land Parliament. He holds that in
Queensland, at least, some resumptions
have been, “ridiculous” ; he wants to see
western landholders get even bigger areas
and says that there’s more work where
stations are big than in closer-settlement
districts. He wants future settlement
blocks big enough to maintain the settler
and to allow him to employ workers.
Of course, it could be that “Labor”
voters aren’t so plentiful where every
man owns his own bit of land.
Paterson, the Communist M.L.A. for
Bowen, wants Hanlon to set up a “new
Newcastle” in N.Q. Saying that if N.Q.
is to be developed it is essential to have
iron and steel works, he holds that if the
Governments won’t do it they should en-
courage private enterprise to have a go.
Comrade, in those beautiful lands beyond
the Iron Curtain men have been shot
for saying less.
In a mild argument about Australian-
grown cotton. Customs Minister
Courtice said no dollars were being allo-
cated for imports of raw cotton. B. C.
Johnson, general manager of the Cotton
Board, retorted that on Customs figures
6120 bales were imported in the first nine
months of 1948-49, and total dollar
spending on cotton from 1943-44 to last
March ran into about 16 million dollars.
Johnson says that much of that dollar
expenditure could have been saved if
Australian cotton-growing got encourage-
ment from Canberra instead of opposi-
tion.
McGirr’s Minister for Health Kelly
has announced that his department is
“investigating a theory that infantile par-
alysis could be carried by birds from
fruit-trees.” This was because a polio case
was reported from Bourke, “which had
no human contact with the outside world
for long periods.” This probably ex-
plains what Mr. Bellemore meant when,
as Director of Manpower, he threatened
to send somebody to Bourke, but it
doesn’t explain how (a) the offending
bird, when captured, can be forced to tell
what fruit-tree it visited before flying
out to Bourke, and (b) why it flew to
Bourke,
R. D. Bakewell, chairman of the Wool-
growers’ Council, has made it plain that
woolgrowers want nothing of any
“stabilisation” plan which would bring
wool under Government control on the
excuse that part of growers’ returns
should be drawn off and held against a
problematical future fall in prices. That
kind of “stabilisation” has the wheat-
growers in its grip, though they, like
everybody else, would like to have their
, money when they earn it. The Canberra
* Government is too fond of assuming that
people can’t be trusted with their own
money.
Teachers’ Federation delegates at the
A.C.T.U. conference consistently voted
with the Communist group. There is,
unfortunately, nothing very surprising
about that; Lewis, whom the teachers
permit to run their organisation, is a
Communist, and, like Thornton and other
Red union-leaders, he has travelled
abroad at the taxpayers’ expense. It is
probably an example of the comradeship
that customarily springs up between
fellow-travellers.
Calwell made two admissions this week
—first, that Dobson the Manly-ferry
swimmer had taken him in and second,
that a young Dutchman, a prohibited
immigrant, had through his lawyers out-
smarted the Immigration Department
officials.
He was given a dictation test in
Rumanian, but the officer giving the test
did not know Rumanian himself.
Through this “technicality,” as the Minister
called it, the man was released, but sub-
sequently arrested on a charge of theft;
he had been in Pentridge jail nine months
awaiting deportation. Calwell blames the
Dutch authorities for the delay; instead
of paying his expenses “they have been
messing around.” Someone pointed out
that in the case of some of his Chinese
deportees the Minister was in so much
of a hurry that he flew them out of Aus-
tralia at public expense. A point that
was not elucidated is who pays the ex-
pense of keeping the man -in Pentridge
all this time.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMLES INKS"
“Nakhoda”: German thoroughness has
persisted. After long consideration and
perusal by the Nazi Censorship Bureau,
two books of mine were translated into
German and a contract signed. I was
aw’aiting advance royalties when war
came, and almost simultaneously a
cheque from my London literary agents.
They were later bombed out of one office
after another and finally retired to the
country. No doubt the German publisher
suffered much the same fate, and I forgot
all about my German editions, presuming
they had been put on the Nazi index.
After 10 years I have just received a
letter from my agents stating that the
Franckh’sehe Verlagshandlung, of Stutt-
gart, have sent them the 15 complimentary
copies of the two books, in accordance
with the contract.
* * * *
“Poppa”: Having moved from the
outer suburbs into flats right on a tram-
line, we were dismayed when our two
boys emerged with a new ambition: to
sell newspapers. The five-year-old merely
tied a bit of rope around himself like an
Order of Knighthood, suspended last
week’s “Heralds,” “Suns” and “Tele-
garphs” from it, and marched around the
“ Well, ’e employs us t' clean everything up after ’ im , don't 'e?”
flat and the building shouting to all and
sundry “Ereyah! Pyar!” But the nine-
year-old has secured himself a position as
assistant to a 12-year-old who sells for a
near-by agent; he comes in from an
evening’s work to tell us with considerable
pride of his progress; how, as the double
tramcars come up, one newsboy says
“Front!” and the other says “Back.” His
first sale was one evening paper, for which
his share was threepence; and recently
lie sold 11 papers and earned ninepence.
He couldn’t explain on what basis he re-
ceived these high rates of remuneration ;
but my wife tells me that boys don’t go
into percentages when settling accounts
with their mates. At the same time, these
first experiences as a businessman seem
to have smartened him up considerably—
the idea that you don’t have to wait for
people to give you money, but just go out
into the street and take it from them, has
opened the world to him as a vista of
infinite ice-creams and attainable bicycles.
* * * *
“Brolga”: A couple of surprises
turned up in my letter-box this week.
First was a circular requesting election-
eering help for a lady candidate. An-
other was a form upon which the nature
of the assistance I would like to offer
could be stated and a stamped envelope
for the return of the form. Not liking
the lady or her politics I steamed-off the
stamp. A couple of days later the box
contained a leaflet branded “Free
Sample,” between its covers a dozen
sheets of toilet-paper. I considered the
idea of sticking the stamp back on the
first envelope, enclosing the second item,
and dropping it in the pillar-box, but my
Scotch blood prevailed regarding both.
* * * *
“Bo”: I have long admired the art of
the breeder who has succeeded in evolving
sheep and lambs which are now so
standardised that when dressed and hung
in the butcher’s shop they are far closer
to uniformity in size, weight and shape
than any peas that ever nestled together
in a pod. The true brilliance of his
work, however, is not sufficiently appreci-
ated. One sees a flock of sheep being
driven along; they act as automatons,
as often as not dubbed by those who
handle them as brainless. That is no
exaggeration—literally it is correct,
thanks to the breeder. Not only that, he
has also apparently succeeded in evolving
woollies which can go through life with-
out any seeming disability sans kidneys
and livers. Every day for weeks I have
tried unsuccessfully to get these formerly
plentiful accessories from my butcher.
When I point to the rows of car-
casses hanging from his rails and ask
the reason for their strange disappear-
ance from his establishment he informs
me curtly that he never gets them now
from the carcass butchers. How else
explain it then, other than the never-
ceasing, ever-experimenting work of the
breeder? To those who cynically point
out that some of the big restaurants get
plenty by paying blackmarket prices for
’em, I can only reply that they must still
get their supplies from some fast-dis-
appearing flocks of the old-fashioned type
of sheep and lambs which still use those
outmoded organs.
* * * *
“Mac Hoots”: Sockeye salmon has
made its first appearance in Sydney since
the war and of course people flocked —I
should say, shoaled—to buy it. Forlorn
on the outskirts of a queue at one of
the big stores I met a genteel old lady
who was waiting for everyone else to be
served so that she could then explain
quietly to the salesman that when she
had bought six tins of salmon the pre-
vious day she had not known they came
from Soviet Russia and now she wanted
to return them because really, you see.. .
I gathered that the dear old soul regarded
the delicacy with as much revulsion as if
she had been invited to eat a steak off
Joe Stalin himself. Before such self-
sacrifice I stood abashed; but really I
find it very difficult to regard the salmon,
red as he is, as a Communist; and the
thought of Uncle Joe trading with us just
like any other capitalist adds a certain
sauce to the dish.
* * * ♦
“CM.”: Five boxers have died in
N.S.W. since 1941 as the result of injuries
received in the ring. Since the death of
Victorian lightweight Archie Kemp, there
has been revived talk of a Boxing
“I TOLD you there Was something fishy about our new neighbors."
Control Board. Kemp had never been
knocked down in 76 fights, and was
apparently at the peak of physical condi-
tion. At the end of the 10th round, only
two and a half minutes before the tragedy,
he returned to his corner with a grin on
his face, confident of beating his
opponent. He told his second to tap the
floor a minute before the end of each
round “and I’ll sail in.” He went down
for ever in the next round. Various
authorities had power to stop the fight,
but the fact that none of them acted
suggests that its end could not possibly
have been foreseen. But as long as there
is no real control over a boxer’s welfare
there will be a percentage of tragedies
that could be foreseen—the boxers who
develop small injuries that become com-
plicated and eventually fatal, or more
frequently leave the fighter “walking on
his heels” in a pitiful existence. If any
form of control board is established its
members should be largely medical
men, who, when they see the signs, should
be empowered to bar a fighter from the
ring for as long as he is unfit to fight,
* * * *
“Curate’s Egg”; Maturer years have
not dimmed my childhood feeling that,
of all the glamorous and greasy retinue
of the circus, the most wonderful char-
acter is the bill-sticker. With an air of
lordly detachment he hoists aloft by the
sodden end of his pole a bewildering
succession of billowing sheets, which, on
the hoarding, nearly always take shape
as the young lady whose tights are
certainly daring, whatever the nature of
her flying-trapeze act. I use the quali-
fication “nearly” in mindfulness of an
occasion on which two of the trade, before
commencing work under the blistering
sun of our West Queensland township,
dallied a while at the Shearers’ Arms.
The shades of night were falling fast when
they proceeded to their task. The job
completed, they left by the midnight
train for the next town. Next morning
the posters attracted plenty of attention,
though very few really believed that the
coming circus could, as their hoardings
proclaimed, produce young ladies with
the hindquarters of hippopotami, horses
with trunks, or mighty torsoed giants
with shapely legs clad in filmy lace.
Still, the show attracted our district’s
record circus attendance. Whether this
saved the advance agents from the sack,
I know not.
Sit * * ♦
“Lord Luvus”: Any Victorian writer
or artist contemplating a creative work
in which words like “damn” occur or a
female is depicted capering in the alto-
gether had better think twice about it,
for Attorney - General Oldham will
shortly introduce an “Assault and
Obscene Publications Bill.” This
measure is intended to amend the Police
Offences Act so that the word “obscene”
in the Act shall include anything blas-
phemous or “likely to incite abhorrence
of any religious sect or the members of
that sect.” The legal definition of
“obscene libel” is anything written by a
person who publishes any indecent
matter tending to the destruction of the
morals of society and to deprave or
corrupt those whose minds are open to
moral influences. This is so ambiguous
as to be quite meaningless. Surely every-
body, except babies and madmen, is open
to moral influences, and the word “in-
decent,” like “beautiful” and “ugly,” has
a meaning only in example. What
one may call beautiful another may call
ugly. The new bill puts the criterion of
obscenity in the hands of parsons of any
religious sect or iny member of their con-
gregations. Worse still, the criterion is to
be a feeling, and feelings are poor guides.
Penalties proposed are £5O or 12 months’
imprisonment for the first offence, and
double for the second. At any rate,
that’s some advance; in the Middle
Ages they burnt witches for less,
t ** * *
“Old Sub.”; Refusal of war-time
censors to allow Henry Boote to print the
Sermon on the Mount puzzles me. Had
the name of the Mount been mentioned
I could have understood it, because the
censors deleted all place-names. In
World War I a soldier wrote from the
Middle East: “We are camped within
sight of Mount Sinai, where Moses re-
ceived the commandments.” The letter
was sent to the evening paper in Mel-
bourne, and was then submitted to the
censor, who struck out “Sinai” and
passed the remainder,
* „ * * „ *
country C.P.S. story
21/9/49). Four young couples
arrived in town from a 200-miles-
distant station for the purpose of
bein 8 married but found that the Bush
Brother was 500 miles away in one of the
outer suburbs of his parish. His Wor-
ship’s offer to perform the civil office was
accepted, the participants appreciating
ver Y much the extia-oflicial preamble and
conclusion by which he invested the
e , ga transaction with a roman-
*lC a^ ra ’ * n gratitude he was invited to
be . of the impromptu wedding
cese ßation at the pub. A good time
was had by all except the brides, whose
newly-acquned lords spent the night in
16 c ° ot ’ r - rnornmg they faced a
sore-headed Beak, who fined them each
five bob and beat them to the corner pub.
re ’ fortunately a renewal of the cele-
b/atl?n as , cut short tbe arnva
tbe deserted wives. +
•cp™,..”. Timhrplla* m 21/9/’49V?
whatTwant toCw is, why do those
rd>s h ave t 0 project beyond the canopy
r i ms ? They’ve invented tyres without
i nner _tubes, aircraft minus propellers,
and fountain-pens without nibs. Why
no t brollies without projecting steel ribs?
* * * *
“Sixenate”: Whenever I am down the
end of George-street near the tram bend
to the Quay, I have a mournful sort of
pleasure in using an old right-of-way into
Pitt-street which passes down what looks
like a blind lane, into a warehouse yard
and through a corridor in Sutton’s build-
ing. The action honors the memory of
former-day citizens who were ready to
fight for their rights. When the Fitt-
street building was erected over two ad-
jacent blocks a path between the blocks,
used long enough to establish a public
right-of-way, was shut off. Citizens or
that time didn’t stand for that sort or
thing ; a meeting of the users of the path
was held and a representative elected to
take the matter to the courts. The
application was granted ; the court held
that a right-of-way for the public ex-
isted and ordered that, since the building
was up, and could not be altered, its mam
passage-way should be open for the use
of short-cutters who required it. bydne>
used to be full of such right-of-ways, bu
in recent years most have disappeare
without anybody raising a kick, ine
spirit of resistance to the loss ot
rights has gone.
CHANGE OF HEART.
“Urgent appeals are being made to the P.M. by
holders of the party’s swinging seats to do everything
possible to prevent a rise in prices before the elec-
tions.”—“S. M. Herald
From squatters in some rather “dicky” seats
They’ve hung on to, or wrested, by a whisker,
Come quite a flow of nervous yelps and bleats
Now the election fight is getting brisker.
Once-fat majorities which, at the poll
Three years ago, were badly, sadly whittled,
They fear may disappear into a hole
(Like all their “plans” for winning extra coal).
Their vision is of cushy billets skittled.
Electorate-redistribution gave,
When expectations seemed a trifle rocky,
The brightest prospects that their seats they’d
save.
Even no-hopers got immensely cocky.
But then came that inevitable state:
Reaction from the first flush of elation;
The gnawing doubts began to irritate
The vitals of each doubtful candidate
Hag-ridden by the word “extermination.”
Good cause they’ve had since then to feel that
way,
With every day the prospect getting blacker;
With coal strikes, wild-man Eddie’s bank-grab
bray,
The cost-of-living pace a real cracker,
The Thorntons and the Healys on their backs,
The fishy smells, “Jock” Garden, and the
“votches,”
Their pension graft, a Cabinet of hacks.
Defence by pushing buttons, crippling tax,
A barrowful of bungles and of botches.
And so to Ben they howl and supplicate
Their epidermises to be preserving.
Black Saturday looms up! Awaiting Fate
Is always apt to be a bit unnerving.
Now, suddenly, they feel a deep concern,
A very touching, grievous heartache over
Their dear elector’s trials. How they yearn
To help him out —at least, till they return
To browse and drowse in Parliamentary clover!
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON $
05UUJV.VN
t \ yrton
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson. Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
BEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
•TEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPES
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS Z Z PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
•jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
82
m
a
c
UJ2
aa/iMieL=>
1
Jl
In your favourite shape
at all good stores.
Priced at 36/-.
f Flawlessly crafted in
England of age old
bruyere and distin-
guished for its rich grain
and superb finish, the
“Sasieni” is truly perfec-
tion in pipecraft. In-
built, too, is the patented
“Sasieni” moisture trap,
which assures a mellow,
dry, satisfying smoke.
Distributed by WILCOX MOFFLIN LIMITED
Branches in all States.
1
0®
Vrusao* S
S’
\ \
m
mm
a
01 aranteed: neveVto fade or shrink
“Bullwhanger”: “The coming-of-age
of Dora Doohickey will be celebrated at
a barbecue at....” gushed the social
pages of the daily I was reading.
Barbecue! The word took me back to
Nemingha (N.S.W.) in 1918. A com-
posite column of the First A.I.F. arrived
there one morning on a recruiting-
training march from Armidale to New-
castle, and the citizenry received the
column with a feed. That was a bar-
becue! A fat steer had been prepared,
spitted on an old wagon-axle and roasted
whole; bags of spuds and other vege-
tables were cooked, and three magnificent
eighteens of country-brewed beer stood
tapped and ready. Yes, Nemingha did
us proud, and we put away the best
dinner in the history of the A.I.F. But
nowadays, a barbecue merely means a
few genteel chops and pallid snags grilled
over an ornate outside fireplace in a
Palm Beach garden.
* * * ♦
“C.A.G.”: Vandals’ initials in historic
spots (B. 31/8/’49) are even worse in
England, where initial-inscribing infidels
have been at work in abbeys, cathedrals
and castles. Magnificent oaken doors,
hallowed sanctuary walls, furniture and
recumbent alabaster effigies are all de-
faced by the vandalism of generations of
nonentities making their bid for im-
mortality. I remember Romsey Abbey,
where part of the west end of the church
was once used as a school-room. On the
stone pillars are initials scratched by
18th-century imps—a perpetration which
for many centuries more will serve as a
reminder that boys were, and are, and
always will be boys. But it is when
grown-ups do these things that one is
apt to despair—until one realises that
grown-ups have been doing such things
for ages.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Old Carp.”: The first phonograph I
ever listened-in to recorded a confession
by Butler the murderer (B. 21/9/’49),
allegedly made before he was extradited
from U.S.A., where he was arrested by a
Sydney detective aboard the sailing ship
Swanhilda. The phonograph was at
N.S.W. National Park, where an enter-
prising Yank made a pile from a day-long
queue of patrons, who for 6d. a pop were
each handed a rubber-tube to which was
attached ear-plugs, similar to a doctor’s
stethoscope. Records were of wax,
cylindrical in shape and carefully cleaned
with a camel-hair brush before being
“See where it went?”
stored in cotton-wool-lined receptacles.
Butler was probably the only Australian
criminal after whom an article of raiment
was named. His Press likenesses depicted
him wearing a cloth cap, and immediately
all cloth caps became “Butler Caps.”
When a member of the Talent desired to
insult a foe, or rile a passer-by, he had
only to yell “Butler,” and it was on in
earnest.
* * * *
“Flathead”: One of the regulars on
the train home was explaining devalua-
tion to his wife. “Look, Emily, an
Englishman now gets two dollars’ worth
when he once got four—he won’t import
so much, see?” “Yes.” He brightened
up. “Well, it also means that an Ameri-
can can now buy for two dollars what
used to cost him four. Take overcoats.
Say, a coat once cost him four dollars;
now he can buy two of them for four
dollars. So he’ll buy more, but the
British living standard will drop. See?”
“No. At that rate an Englishman would
have to sell six overcoats to make two
dollars. No, I don’t see it at aIL” The
man told her that sne had him all wrong.
He’d tried it with motor-cars and bike-
pumps and was loosening his collar when
I got out.
* ♦ ♦ *
“P. Subub”; Milk-ohs and watchdogs
(B. 10/8/’49)? Robbo, the slickest de-
liverer in our submrb, threatened to resign
unless Mrs. Doglover placed her milk-
jug right at the front-gate. “You see, it’s
like this,” he told the boss. “The Dog-
lovers a while ago got a young bull-pup.
At first it was a bit of a joke to push
him over when he came at me. But he
never learned not to, and, as he got
bigger, I had to kick him dinkum. But
he could take it —every morning he’d be
waiting for another issue. Then I tried
wearing boots with toeplates. They
slowed me down nearly an hour on the
round, and didn’t do him a bit of good.
Now I can see nothing but wearing
leather-leggings; nothing will stop him,
and his teeth’s too dinkum for my bare
shins—and how’s a man to keep the pace
up in leggings?”
* * * *
“Col M.”: Footsore, I made my way
home from my first game of golf. I
could think of nothing finer in the world
than a pot of tea, sympathy, a deep, hot
bath, and bed. My opponent had walked
only about four miles on the course,
but I had probably covered eight—with
one hundred and twenty-eight staggered
stopping-places. As I turned into my
home street a small boy looked up from
the pavement, picked up his marbles and,
for company, walked beside me along the
darkening street. He glanced at the bag
of clubs rattling aimlessly on my back
and asked, “Did you win today?” I told
him I’d had some bad luck. “I wish
you’d won,” he said. “You get a lot of
money when you win, don’t you?” I
let him have his dreams—he will learn
about life in time —but, a victim of his
flattery, I smiled again.
* * * *
“Reppiks”; The discovery on the
walls of a city club’s bar of a top top-
secret air photograph of Washington,
D.C., which had been gazed at for a week
by the general public although publica-
tion of it had been banned by the Defence
Department, recalls a World War I case
in Adelaide when the censorship was
quartered in the cable-building. One
evening an agitated censor came into the
cable-office and said that the chief censor
from Melbourne had called for the most
secret file in the archives and it couldn’t
be located. A frenzied search failed to
reveal it, so someone suggested sending
for the cleaner, a stout Irish woman with
a not-too-sweet temper. Striding to the
window of the deputy-chief censor’s
office she flung it up and disclosed the
missing object lying on the sill within easy
reach of the pavement. “Why did you
put it there?” said censor. “Where
else could you put it?” said the cleaner.
“Why didn’t you remember to put it
back again?” he asked. “Because,” re-
torted she, “you closed the window.”
* * * *
“Kinane”; It was his first cadet camp,
and they were out on night-maneeuvres.
Eighteen lads in a party were approach-
ing the “enemy,” and 17 fools became de-
tached from his detachment and left him
alone in the night. With his rifle loaded,
“mostly with blanks,” and held in a
menacing position, he groped for the lost
souls and blundered across the “enemy’s”
camp. A sentry gave challenge and
nervous explanations followed. For tire
first time in his life the boy welcomed
his hated nickname when one of the
“enemy” said: “It’s all right. It’s only
Stinker Burton,”
* * * *
“Plop”: A friend left the city some
years ago and bought a few acres on a
point of land jutting into a very beautiful
coastal lake. In the first three years he
built two brick cottages, put up a dozen
floored-tents and made his own boats.
He fixed up a lighting-plant and waited
for business. For a start things were
bad, but they gradually improved. Ever
since the first season the same people have
been coming back each year, bringing
friends with them. New customers have
turned up, and they have sent friends
along. In the days he was having his bad
spin I asked him why he didn’t advertise
the place; all he had was a faded sign
about a foot square stuck up on a post
near his road-gate. His answer was a fine
piece of logic. “If I put up a great bill-
board X would certainly attract a lot more
people. But although I know this place is
beautiful, they might feel let down when
they compare it with the high praises on
the billboard. The way I have it now, folk
who happen to see my little sign out there
get curious and come in for a look, and
when they get here and see the place they
are impressed. They think they have
made a discovery. When they get back
home they are better than a dozen bill-
boards.”
IN A GLASS, DARKLY.
“The British National Health Service has refused
a monocle to a Welsh resident of Berkshire, offering
bim free spectacles or nothing, though he protested
that this meant waste of one pane of glass.”
It seems a little bit irrational,
Though printed in a Sydney chronicle,
To find an honest British National
Denied his Health Department monocle;
Indeed, it smacks of State intrusion,
Inviting words by no means jocular,
To stamp the Briton’s constitution
Monarchical, but not monocular.
And here, perhaps, you’ll make a new point:
The liberty of the individual,
When monocled, to maintain his viewpoint,
Must not be manacled? We bet a quid you
will!
But Office only tends to ossify;—
Polemical or dialectical,
The rigid Marxian philosophy
Rejects so singular a spectacle.
Totalitarian have no scruple
At optometrical reprisal
Upon the lonely, backward pupil
By banning it from public eye-school;
Though backed by witnessed affidavit,
No protestation can get by with ’em;
The eyes that gain are ayes that have it:
That’s ayes that see things eye-to-eye with ’em.
The Labor State has no monopoly
As yet, of any kind of glassware,
But, given itself to see Cycloppily,
It twists all views to serve its class-war;
Putting free blinkers on the masses,
It blinds them to its own perplexities,
las 110 rimrge his glass has
Both cause and means to toast its exequies.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Bo”: It had been almost like a
bereavement in the family when Captain,
the rather elderly yellow-crested cockatoo
owned by Pierson, which had for
years been a popular figure outside the
post-office store at Shingle Bend, dis-
appeared without trace from his usual
afternoon stroll to the horsetrough a
few yards up the street. Then, a few
weeks later, a resident of the township
brought back word that he had seen
Captain in a cage in the barber’s shop
over at Cowbell. Thither Paterson tore
at top speed, recognised and demanded
the return of his pet. The new owner-
elect flatly refused, claiming it was his
bird. A court action followed. After
the arguments for both sides had been
adduced the Solomon on the Bench said
the simplest way to determine ownership
would be by the bird’s reaction to speech
to it by both defendant and plaintiff. To
the defendant’s “Hullo, Cocky, what
does Cocky want?” the bird maintained
a stolid silence. Before Paterson spoke
he wrote something on a slip of paper,
handed it without a word to the Beak
and said to the bird, “Well, you old cow,
how’s the body this morning?” Immedi-
ately Captain stretched his wings, danced
up and down a few times, fixed Paterson
with a bright eye and replied in a cracked
basso “None the better for your askin’,
you shovel-gutted old blankard!” The
Beak looked at the paper and smiled.
“Plaintiff’s bird,” he announced promptly.
“Our first lesson will be on self-control!”
then, in an aside, “though the ultimate
noun he used is slightly different from
what you wrote.” “Oh,” said Paterson,
“he sometimes uses the other when he’s
especially affectionate, your Worship.”
* * * *
“W. Court”; Going along a line of
wallaby snares I came on a possum well
tangled up. Unlike many others that had
stumbled in and been noosed back of
the forelegs on other occasions, this
fellow had the noose round his neck —
tight. His head wasn’t congested,
although he must have been a prisoner
for hours. I’ve known more than one
dog that learned to tie up and so live
on when snared, but this was the first
wild thing I’ve struck that had the sense
to keep still when noosed.
* * * *
“Betcha”: I’m not entering “Trim’s”
argument about bulloaks (B. 31/8/ ’49), as
I only know the value of sheoaks. But,
come to think of it, aren’t she-anything
—well, strictly between ourselves, of
course. I mean, if you want a cat that
will really catch mice, instead of one to
lie asleep round the place, get a female.
Generally speaking, female sheep-dogs
are more eager and ready to work, and
even in the rabbit pack the she-canines
are the better workers. Cows are the
more useful and profitable bovines, and
have you ever seen anyone trying to eat
a leg of ram? Humans? Not biting.
If “Trim” doubts that, let him ask a long-
haired member of the species for him-
self, and serves him right.
* * * ♦
“Bundeena”; The post-mortem on a
10ft. grey-nurse shark landed recently
outside Geraldton (W.A.) revealed that
its Jast meal consisted of a 4ft. shovel-
nose shark, and the size of the sea-
lawyer’s gullet may be gauged from the
fact that the meal went down in one
gulp, not even having been bitten.
* * * *
“Billy T.”; “Sol’s” wool-traveller (B.
14/9/’49) recalls another. On our
squadron there was a quiet little rigger who
owned a show property in the Riverina.
On stand-down days he’d come in to
the near-by town and with us adjourn to
the Royal, but whereas most would be
content with an hour or two’s gentle
gargling, Nugget used the occasion to
contact local graziers, unload a truck or
two of hay and maybe sell, or buy, a
truck or two of sheep. One wild day
he was on tarmac duty waiting to service
an incoming Anson, and from it
stepped an officer new to the
station; typical of the businessmen
who came in on “officer-entry” to
fill, with varying efficiency, the non-
technical posts. “I know that codger,”
said Nugget. “Wool - traveller”
but there the conversation ended as the
subject bore groggily down upon us and,
picking on the rigger as the smallest, said
“Would you mind getting a bucket and
cleaning inside that aircraft?” and
lurched away. There was a slight pause,
but the stranger had a little bit of braid
on his shoulder whereas N. had a mere
propeller on his arm, so he said “Yes,
Sir.” The ground staff glared after him
who had broken the great unwritten
commandment —whosoever pubes in an
aeroplane will himself clean up the mess —
then our cobber delivered himself.
“You !” he muttered. “You’ll drink
no more of my whisky! Nor get a bale
of wool either!” And thus it was that
Goldsbrough Mort lost a good customer
to Dalgety’s or vice versa.
* * * ♦
“Old-timer”: “Some of these books’d
get on y’r quince,” Little Curl announced.
“It says here that this bloke Perseus
had t’ go out an’ do in a woman called
the Gordon or somethin’ —wait a minute,
the Gorgon—an’ he’s got a sword an’ a
shield so bright y’ can use it as a mirror.
This tart —whafsername? Medoosa ;
sounds more like a racehorse —wears a
hat full o’ snakes, see, but what I can’t
make out is how anybody could ha’
known that, because they reckon that her
dial’s so ruddy awful that everybody who
sees it is turned f stone. If that’s so,
how can they tell anybody else what it
looks like?” We pondered this gravely,
and Pocketknife suggested, “Maybe this
Pershus bloke come back an’ told ’em.
He did her in, didn’t he?” Curl con-
suited the book again. “Yair,” he said,
“but he must ha’ known about her dial
because that’s why he took the shinin’
shield; so he could look inf it while he
bashed her.” “What,” demanded old
Jim, “like backin’ the car be lookin’ in
the rear-vision mirror?” “Somethin’ like
that.” We discussed the question some
more and Little Curl became disgusted.
“Aw, it’s all rot,” he said. “No woman
could have a dial like that. Turn a man
f stone.” “You was pretty near turned
f stone in town the other night,” said
young Fleming, “when y’ took that girl
“Well, wouldn't it!”
home an’ was talkin’ t’ her at the gate an’
her mother bobbed out an’ roared at y* ! ”
After which all interest in Medusa ceased.
* * * *
“Wippegong”; There’s a bird as well
known throughout this land as gum-
trees ; he is big enough to see easily, he
is homely, feeds in the open, has a quiet
though distinctive call, is usefully insec-
tivorous and, far enough south, a regular
harbinger of summer. He has a rather
beetle-like habit of folding his wings
daintily into place after alighting, and his
coloring, while pleasing, is simplicity
itself —face jet-black and all the rest soft
blue-grey. You’d say there’d be a
common name for a common fowl like
that, but he is burdened with the stagger-
ing monicker of black-faced cuckoo-
shrike —just as well he doesn’t know, or
his flight would not be the graceful
movement that it is. Yes, I know he
gets other names: blue jay—-but he isn’t
a jay; they’re north of the Line, He’s
been called landrail and lapwing, both
more akin to plovers; and even his
official title is a clumsy compromise, for
he isn’t a cuckoo nor is he a true shrike,
though in build a bit like both. Summer
bird seems to be gaining favor in some
quarters, but if ever a bird deserved a
name of the quality of Willie Wagtail
or Yellow Bob this is the fellow. The
label of his inland cousin, the ground
cuckoo-shrike, is not so inapt, for this
species does live bn the ground; and if
you want a visual treat just settle your-
self quietly and let a pair of these
beauties work the grass near you. Their
pale silver-grey is slashed horizontally by
wings and forked-tail of black, and there’s
no pose, position or movement in which
they are not distinctively beautiful.
Nest, like that of Black-face, is a skimpy
saucer in a high fork.
* * * *
“Telarb”: Mention of the Mabuiag
crocodile dance (B. 20/7/’49) recalls that
on top of a very high hill on Mabuiag are
several heaps of stones arranged to repre-
sent crocodiles —there are three large
and numerous smaller ones. Small stones
carefully arranged create a very definite
illusion of life when seen from a distance.
All face due east and overlook a rock
face dropping sheer for a couple of
hundred feet. One can imagine the
sacrificial offerings of centuries ago being
pushed off into eternity. Today’s descend-
ants of the saurian-worshippers won’t
shoot one of the brutes for love or money,
even though the crocs raid the village
regularly at night in the nor’-west looking
for a feed of dog or unwary piccaninny ;
there is no compunction, however, in
seeking the aid of tribes given to the
worship of either the dugong or the shark
in bumping-off the scaly killers.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“C.C.D.”: Cyrus Hall McCormick was
the inventor of the reaper, a crude
machine which cut the crop, whence it
was raked by a man who walked behind.
Later, in conjunction with others, he
devised a binder (B. 17/8/’49) which made
irregular sheaves and bound them with
copper wire. Deering, a storekeeper, in-
vented a means of tying with twine.
Appleby, of Geelong (claimed later as an
American), improved the method by a
knotter; this would knot sometimes, and
kept men busy following the binder and
tying missed sheaves. Samson, of Gawler,
perfected a tension which overcame this
difficulty. While McCormick was a young
man Ridley, Bull, Adamson, Martin and
others were making strippers (called
reapers in N.S.W.) with improvements
such as peg-drums. In December, 1879,
11 experimental machines were demon-
strated on John Riggs’s farm at Gawler
in a contest for a prize of £4OOO offered
by the S.A. Government for a machine
to reap, clean and bag grain. They
worked imperfectly, but were the fore-
runner of the harvester. Americans did
come to see our machines, bought Sun-
shine and Nicholson and Morrow
machines and sent them to America, also
stump-jump ploughs and cultivators. We
got their copies back with alleged im-
provements, but they failed to compete
with our own industry.
# * * *
“Tidapa”: The “wirrah,” also known
among rockhoppers as “old boots,”
which approximate the edible quality of
his flesh, is tough in another way. I
dropped a four-pounder into the basket
at mid-afternoon. On the reef again next
morning at six o’clock the old warrior
still had enough kick in him to resent
being handled for bait, so I gently put
him over the side. He made a few ex-
perimental flicks with fins and tail, then
set off downwards to the rocky depths.
Nor did he reappear floating belly-up, as
do most fish after a spell in the air.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’l”: Schools of porpoises
have increased to such proportions off
Victoria’s west coast that barracoota
fishermen there will have to abandon
their activities unless drastic action is
taken. At Port Fairy—the State’s biggest
fishing port, with 60-odd boats —shoals
of ’coota are fished one day but on the
next all that are to be seen are the rolling
bodies of the dolphins. The big in-
truders send the long silvery fish to the
bottom somehow, while they feed on the
’coota’s diet, the brit, but whether the
dolphins attack the scale fish is not known.
All attempts by fishermen to frighten the
porpoises have been futile, though at Port-
land some time ago a number of fishing-
boats in desperation drove a shoal ashore.
* * ft * *
“B. A. Ker”: “Termites” —in common
usage “white-ants” (B. 7/9/’49)? I
can confirm that these Commos
will destroy anything that can be
softened by the gastric juices they
emit; but they have their prefer-
ences where timber is concerned, native
hardwoods being slightly more appreci-
ated than imported softwoods, and the
allegedly immune cypress-pine a last
resort. Immediately after rain white-
ants are most active —the earth then is
more plastic for building the “covered-
ways.” Without thesh the little wrecker
could not live —ants, birds and sunlight
are all his enemies—but the tunnels are
merely his advanced posts; his head-
quarters are often hundreds of yards
away. Using creosote, I repeatedly
checked ravages along one stretch ol
fence, only to find that the attack would
begin again a few yards away, till a bull-
dozer cleared the scrub and stumps from
an adjacent paddock and tore out the
headquarters. But the white-ant has long
ceased to be a serious menace to build-
ings. The builder who knows his
job—and regulations —places a pro-
jecting galvanised-iron tray over even-
pier or foundation-wall that connects
to earth. White-ants are “light on
—which makes them physically incapable
of climbing over a one-inch projection ot
metal- When man discovered this dis-
ability —after proving that a white-ant
must make contact with earth at least
once every 24 hours —the solution was
simple.
BARLEY-GRASS.
Green fields there are in Scotland
Of rye-grass and of clover,
But there are richer pastures
That I have ridden over,
Wide leagues of waving barley-grass,
The pride of every stockman
And the dream of every drover.
I’ve seen the first green shadow
Creep up behind the rains
To bring back life and laughter
To the dry and dusty plains;
I’ve ridden through the barley-grass,
And all its wealth and wonder
In memory remains.
On many a western frontage
I’ve seen the bushfires glow,
And reap a golden harvest
And leave black ash below
Where once there grew the barley-grass,
The spreading, sunlit barley-grass
That made so brave a show.
And I have watched it wither
’Neath many a scorching sky,
And seen the dry stalks crumble,
While the hungry mobs went by,
And drought destroyed the barley-grass
So full of magic whispers,
So early doomed to die.
Still wave those gilded banners
As once long years ago,
Where through the cattle-country
So tall the stems would grow
That we could catch the barley-grass
And tie it in a golden knot
Across the saddle-bow?
SCOTLAND.
Will H. OGILYIE.


9
§
I
A
With the Vampire
Jet doing the Mel-
bourne to Sydney
hop in 55 minutes, it
is hard for most of
us to remember back
to the noisy 6i-hour
trip by the old Fokker in the days when
the pilots were Scotty Allen, Jimmy
Mollison and the other old-timers. Just
as difficult it is to hark back to the days
when it was news, and big news, to be
able to receive Melbourne broadcasting
stations in Sydney at loudspeaker
strength,
* * ♦ ♦
Today we still have no definition of
what “loudspeaker strength” is, and per-
haps it i§ a complete misnomer. The
day may come, however, when there is
some acoustical measurement to which all
radio sets should conform, so that the
cove next door can be compelled by law to
cease swinging on the volume-control and
causing bedlam to all his neighbours.
* * * *
The new Mullard portable has recently
undergone some amazing tests, and
seems to be the bright answer for the
average chap outback. Travelling be-
tween Sydney and Adelaide recently, not
only was this smart little set able to hold
most of the Eastern stations every night
and pretty decent daytime results, but
gave good car reception at one hundred
or two hundred miles off country stations.
In fact, the results from this job are so
extraordinarily good and battery con-
sumption so low that I wonder if it will
be very long before every radio set will
be entirely disconnected from the power
plug.
♦ * * *
Another bit of wizardry by Mullard
Electronic Engineers has just arrived in
Australia in the form of an Accelerometer
valve—quite tiny, simple to look at, de-
signed to measure the acceleration or
deacceleration of fast-moving bodies
where it might be practically impossible
to do this by any other means. An inter-
esting example where this special Mullard
valve has been used was in the develop-
ment in England of the Martin Baker
ejection seat, whereby the pilot of a high-
speed fighter plane can be ejected in the
event of trouble, complete with seat and
parachute, so obviating the necessity of
attempting the almost impossible task of
“bailing out” from a fast-moving aircraft.
The motive power for the ejection seat is
provided by an explosive charge located
in the seat and touched off by the pilot
if in difficulties!
♦ * * ♦
With some of our crook bush roads,
someone should tell these backroom boys
in England that most of the sulkies out-
back have been fitted with Martin Baker
ejection sets for a long time now.
* * ♦ ♦
Nobody worries much about the
economy of one radio set in relation to
another where power consumption is con-
cerned. The average AC set working on
240-volt mains draws only as much
current as a medium size electric light
globe, and the consumption of battery
sets has been reduced quite considerably
by the introduction of new type valves.
Dependability seems to be the main con-
sideration, especially as regards battery
sets where the user finds it rather hard
to get good and immediate service should
something go wrong.— advt.
THE FIRST SNOW.
On the wind-currents it came sliding
the air easing its gliding,
calm and miraculous in the orchard shelter
and in the open paddock scurrying, swift as
rain pelter.
The white, gentle scurf of it against the hedge
green,
slippered and silent, ghostly clean;
and out in the paddock—the open flats —
through the fence-wires’ thin slats
I saw it swirling, eddying, fleeing,
swift and smooth as an expert skiing
and swept in currents under the trees
with slipstream’s inevitable ease.
I lifted my face to the white sky
as it came softly by—
the sky falling in snippets of fleece
so gently and with such flawless peace.
Around and above, all I could see
the wonder of snow falling silently.
n.z. Barbara Dent.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We met him at the
Labor Exchange and he said, “You look
like the sort of blokes I want. Got a big
contract up in the Wimmera. Good job
for young, tough, single blokes. An’ if
I know the Wimmera y’ won’t stay single
long.” Mat picked up his hat. “Me an’
me mate,” he said briefly, “is makin’
out back into Noo South, where y’ can
stay single long.”
* * * *
“Chuck”: In the room behind the
bar the talk turned to accidents.
‘This car in the paper here,” said Steve.
“Looks like it hit the side of the high
bridge it was crossing and got caught by
a wheel on the railing and hung there.
Marvellous, isn’t it, the way they always
escape,” “Yair, like the passenger-bus
going over Hell’s Gap,” agreed Bert.
“Looks like certain death, that place,
and yet” The sound of a crash inter-
rupted. “Biing smashin’ a tray o’ glasses,”
Bert grinned. “As I was sayin’, about the
passenger-bus, a few feet over the edge she
got caught in the only tree in the whole
stretch. Full load and nobody scratched.”
“Yes, and what about old Parsons driv-
ing over Breakneck Gorge and getting
jammed on that rock,” broke in another.
“Not hurt a bit.” There was a rush of
steps outside and the door flew open.
“Lend a hand, you blokes,” yelled the
newcomer. “Brownie’s had an accident
out in the front here with his car.
Smashed the leg o’ Woolly’s best race-
horse, done in Bung’s new plate-glass
front and ended upside-down in the
brick wall of the garage. Brownie’s a
mess of blood,” “Gripes, on a wide flat
place like that!” gasped Steve as they
dashed for the scene. “How’d it happen?
Drunk or somethin’?” “Drunk, no!”
came the reply, “A tyre blew out.”
* * * *
“Billy T”: I’m cut off from civilisation.
There is no electric light or gas or radio,
no vacuum cleaner, no train or tram for
many miles; the only bright lights at
night are millions of miles away overhead,
and the desolate horizon is broken only
by the redgums along the Marthaguy. No
milkman lets me know it’s daylight—I
have to depend on magpies and the pied
butcher-bird ; no bath-heater enlivens the
evening by going bang in my face —if I
want a hot shower I must heat the water
in a big drum and pump it over myself.
I can’t hail a taxi, so have to travel
about in Long Bob’s old truck, but he has
such a poor idea of the value of time that
he wanders miles off the track just to
look at emus or watch the old wood-duck
that has young ’uns on the dam, and it’s
often after dark when I get back to this
hut. That’s when I wish I had a little
electric stove and a pressure-cooker; I’d
knock up a meal in an hour with them,
As it is I’m dependent on a primitive sort
of oven made of bricks with packed clay
underneath. There’s a great cavern in
the middle of it about 4ft, long and 3ft.
wide and 1ft. high; and there’s a flue
above the front, but you have to juggle
the door to control the draught up it.
You put a fire inside this thing—and not
with nice handy fuel like coke or coal,
but woods they call box and belar that
must be chopped up—then after a while
you push the ashes to the back and shove
in your tucker and hope for the best.
So far the meat has acted oddly—just
fallen away from the bone—and
the spuds and parsnips have been a
strange brown all over and flowery inside.
Tried some scones but they turned out
light and fluffy, not the good solid ones
like I can make in town; anyway, I
won’t be here much longer, so by the
time you see this I’ll be able to strike a
match and within three minutes be eating
a slice of toast made, and flavored, with
gas.
* * * *
“Tidapa”; The use of tall pronged
poles that once were a feature of all
native bazaars round Indonesia became
quickly apparent when the shouts
of “Amuck! Amuck!” would sud-
denly send sellers and buyers scurrying
for safety. If the amuck madman
can be prevented from initially drawing
blood the fit of insanity quickly passes
and the erstwhile potential murderer
reverts to a rather shamefaced Malay who
“The moths have been at ‘The Last Rose of Summer .’”
will probably never again go on the
rampage. Of all Far Eastern races
the Javanese is the most prone to run
amuck. Anything can cause it —an affair
of the heart, a loss at the gambling-house
or the death of a favorite fighting-cock
can be sufficient. To prevent such in-
discriminate slaughter the poles are placed
at strategic points. At the first sign of
an amuck, one of Java’s miniature native
policemen grabs the nearest pole and
goes after the disturber of the peace.
The next part of the business is the
ticklish one of pinning the demented man
against a wall with the prongs of the
pole, its length preventing the killer from
doing any damage with the long knife.
After giving him time to cool off a little,
moral persuasion is commenced in an
effort to make him drop the parang and
listen to reason. Otherwise he is held
prisoner until reinforcements arrive and
he is taken to the cooler.
* * * *
“Old Bushman”: It needs only a soli-
tary magpie to bluff a couple of hundred
silver gulls. At Geelong (Vic.) a mate
of mine regularly fed bread to a mob of
gulls on the Esplanade until a pair of
maggies nested in a pine 300 yards away.
One day at feeding-time one of the pied
fowl flew down among the seafaring
divers and drove them all off. Thereafter
he remained cock o’ the walk.
* * ♦ *
“Trim”: “Nothing like breaking ’em
in from the start,” says Shaggy as he
sends young Wheeler, just started in the
insurance business, out to sell Kliese a
life policy, Kliese is a giant of a cove,
six-foot-seven and twenty-stone-odd. A
bachelor, about 40 years of age, and as
far as anyone knows he has no relations.
There wouldn’t be a man in the district
less in need of a life policy. Owns a
good vine scrub-block on the western side
of the range. Only time he leaves it is
to journey occasionally to the nearest
polling-booth to cast an informal vote.
“Did you sell him?” asks Shaggy when
Wheeler returns. Wheeler says: “When
I get out there Kliese’s spine-bashing in
the shade of a big pine. I let him know
who I am. ‘lnsurance,’ he says. ‘Hell!’
And spreads out again. I talk for half
an hour and he doesn’t say a word. Just
strokes an old mongrel lying beside
him. Eventually X say to him ‘Well, Mr.
Kliese, what about a small policy?’
And he says, ‘What’s a good thing for
fleas?’ That knocks me a bit, but I
say, ‘For you or the dog?’ He doesn’t
answer, so as it doesn’t make much dif-
ference, I say ‘Soap—plenty of soap and
water.’ ‘Good idea,’ he says and goes
over to his humpy, where he fills a tub
with water, plonks the mong in it and
soaps him up. He looks at the dog and
at the water and says, ‘Hell! That’s a
lot of soap going to waste,’ peels off
the old grey flannel shirt he’s wearing
and washes it with the dog.” “But did
you sell him?” asks Shaggy. “He isn’t
even a prospect,” says young Wheeler.
“But he told me to tell you to come and
collect a couple of calves for next Tues-
day’s sale.”
* » ♦ ♦
“Horseless Horseman”: Clearing
timber and improving pastures by closer-
settlement usually relegates native bird-
life to more distant parts; but a
notable exception occurs on the sub-
terranean-clover country about the
Victorian-S.A. border, where today
scores of mountain duck are attracted
in the late winter and spring months
to feed and breed. Yet the bril-
liantly-colored chestnut birds are rarely
seen on the unimproved pasturelands.
The wary fliers conceal the whereabouts
of their nests, though; a mate of mine
after 20 years on a 900-acre block has
come on hundreds of young ducklings
but never the location of a nest. Mostly
they build in hollows in the big redgums
or about the gum swamps there, but one
settler told me he found a combined nest
of three birds in a rabbit burrow with 40-
odd eggs.
* * * *
“E.”: It was the usual thing for the
town to blame the umpire every time
their football team was beaten, though
the umpire was changed repeatedly.
They resented the suggestion that
they couldn’t take it; all they
wanted was a fair unbiased umpire
for fair-minded sportsmen. At extra
cost, a city man was engaged for
the grand final. And still the town team,
lost. “What did you think of the umpir-
ing?” a stranger asked the club’s presi-
dent. “Wa-al, now, it wasn’t bad,” an-
nounced old Sam weightily. “Man’s got
to be fair, you know. I ain’t sayin’ he
knows anything about football, but then
that’s as fair to one side as the other;
well, as a rule it is. Most of his deci-
sions were out to blazes, an’ every time
he spotted one of our men with the ball
he whistled him up an’ bounced the thing.
Just bad luck he always turned and
banged it down near one o’ the other
team. Still, as I say, I ain’t one to com-
plain about the umpire. I reckon it’s
only natural a man’ll stick by his friends,
if y’ know what I mean. And I did hear
that city bloke knows one o’ the other
team. Heard him meself say ‘G’day’ to
him before the match. That’ll show y’,
eh? Prob’ly they got him on purpose.
Just the same it don’t do t’ say nothing.
Wouldn’t like nobody t’ say we ain’t good
sports round these parts.”
* * * ♦
“1.M.H.”: The Council had better not
take , “Rooster” (B. 24/8/’49) too
seriously. Dr. Hugh Nicol, of Rotham-
stead, in his Microbes by the Million,
made out a great case for the harmless
ness and utility of the putrefactive
bacteria, the whole salted with sly digs at
the medical bloke’s attitude to wogs. It
has to be remembered, however, that
bacteria are übiquitous, and that all dead
animal and vegetable-matter is food.
Therefore, given the right conditions, the
putrefying material may contain —besides ;
millions of the harmless and useful wogs
which are busy turning the dead animal
or plant back into plant-growth
materials —colonies of deadly - disease
germs. And these can be present in
buried material as well as in stuff lying
above the surface.
♦ * * ♦
“Kelms”: Animals’ “scare” memories?
How otherwise are the more powerful or
fierce animals controlled? Take a young
bull, teach it the power of the whip, and
keep the memory alive by frequent
threats, and you’ll control that animal
with a whip for the rest of its life. If
you make the mistake of trying to thrash
it, you’ll replace the exaggerated memory
with a concrete fact with which its hide
can cope, and as the memory dims your
control will lessen. I’ve known bulls
who laughed at the lash, but were scared
stiff of the whip-crack. However fierce,
a dog is, it will cringe before a club if,
as a pup, it was beaten by one, and has
not since been placed under the necessity
of fighting, and beating, it.
♦ * * ♦
“Chuck”: Bernie stood scowling sul-
lenly after Hassett’s truck. “Somebody
ought t’ do somethin’ about that bloke,”
he growled. “Never thinks o’ nobody but
’imself.” “Why, what’s he done?” asked
Hal, from the comfort of the verandah-
post. “Ain’t y’ heard?” asked Bernie.
“He beat up young Rogers, and run him
out o’ the district. Said if he showed
up again he’d give ’im some more.”
“Yair, I know, but Rogers has been half-
livin’ off Hassett f’r years,” Hal ex-
plained. “He was the cause o’ Hassett’s
missus clearin’ out on ’im, and he was
always pinchin’ stock.” “Well, Hassett
should’ve put his stock somewhere else
where they couldn’t get pinched,” growled
Bernie. “And what about his garden
that Rogers used to raid?” reminded Hal.
“And his crop paddock that was always
getting a milker shoved in it as soon as
the way looked clear? Gripes, that bloke
used to smash Hassett’s fence on pur-
pose.” “Well, I ain’t sayin’ it wasn’t
irritatin’, p’raps,” Bernie conceded grudg-
ingly, “but that’s no reason t’ drive him
out o’ the district so he won’t come back.
It’s awright f’r cow-cocky Hassett, but I
tell y’ we’re gonna miss young Rogers.
He was a pretty good shearer, that bloke.”


\(»
//
Easing the Burden of
Property Problems
during your lifetime and after
AS the management of Estates and Invest-
ment? becomes more difficult, there are
increasing advantages to be gained by appoint-
ing the Union Trustee Company to act as your
advisor during your lifetime and as the
Executor of your Will.
Thus is assured, at moderate cost, efficient
handling of your business or personal affairs,,
with continuity of service and sympathetic
understanding in the administration of your
Estate.
Discussion of your needs —in complete confi-
dence —is cordially invited. Call or write for a
complimentary copy of “Important Facts
Concerning Wills, Executors, Trustees,”
the union trustee
COMPANY OF
AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1885
333 Collins St, Melbourne; 2 O’Connell St, Sydney; 398-402 Queen St,Brisbane; and at Aibury,Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampto
The only Trustee company having offices each with its own Board of Directors and management, in three States Victoria. New South Wale sand Queen
THE WILD CAT COLUMN
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd.
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1940.. 53,226 7 p.c. = 38,500 14,726 264,212
1941.. 43,908 7 „ „ 38,500 5,408 269,620
1942.. 37,732 6 „ „ 33,000 4,732 274,352
1943.. 49,548 7 „ „ 38,500 11,048 285,400
Inner reserves disclosed .. 100,000 885,400
1944.. 66,809 7 p.c. = 38,500 18,809 403,709
1945.. 53,659 7 „ „ 38,500 15,159 418,868
1946.. 57,156 7 „ „ 38,500 18,656 437,524
1947.. 64,386 7„ „ 38,500 25,886 463,410
From inner reserves, £105,000 ~ 568,410
1948.. 78,841 9 p.c. = 49,500 28,841 597,251
1949.. 83,183 9„ „ 54,000 29,183 626,434
Shareholders welcomed the opportunity
to put up the remaining 10s. on 100,000
£1 contribs. last term. This lifted paid
capita! to £600,000, which, together with
£626,434 of reserves and £l/230,297 of
outside money, is employed in the
pastoral - finance, wool - broking and
agency business in N. S. Wales and
Queensland. Work was quickly found
for the new capital, and a lot more be-
sides, as the following comparison of
balance-sheet figures shows:
1940. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Capital .. £550,000 £550,000 £550,000 £600,000
Creditors .. 285,862 602,786 ) . 1 oon 997
Overdraft . . 282,759 91,221 j M 58,964 1,230,297
Freeholds .. 220,624 279,888 279,927 291,731
Plant .. 16,452 18,897 28,177 37,299
Stocks .. 65,775 93,276 143,505 166,176
Advances,
etc. .. 1,107,380 1,324,284 1,714,018 1,875,314
Investments
and cash 11,851 11,272 182,596 116,211
The growth in advances (up £161,296)
and in outside liabilities (up £94,323) are
interrelated; much of the debt is self-
liquidating.
The co. put more wool (up 30,690
bales) and sheep (up 48,623) under the
hammer:
Wool
(bales). Sheep. Cattle.
1939 .. 207,354 395,256 29,272
1946 .. 222,995 521,748 21,727
1946 .. 227,562 436,266 22,474
1947 .. 212,817 322,693 23,069
1948 .. 206,606 258,384 24,660
1949 .. 237,296 306,957 24,934
Activity in the machinery and produce
departments was livelier, too, and wool
fetched record figures (the Australian
cheque was £194.5 million, up £39
million), while livestock continued to sell
at high prices.
It all makes the year’s growth
of £4842 in net earnings look moder-
ate. The £83,183 of profit claimed
was 13.8 p.c. on capital as against 14.2,
11.7, 10.4 and 9.4 p.c. back to 1945. So
nothing had to be strained to repeat the
9 p.c. distribution, of which 1 p.c. is
labelled bonus. The figure, however, was
written after providing whatever was con-
sidered necessary for contingencies, and
the directors, being prudent men, no
doubt took the opportunity afforded by
one of the fattest years in the trade to
provide liberally, notwithstanding that
£105,000 of inner reserves were disclosed
in the previous year.
The current term opened with favorable
seasonal conditions, which have continued
to date, and a bigger wool-clip and better
turn-off of fat sheep and lambs is antici-
pated. Ca(tle totals will take more time
to recover, especially in North Queens-
land, where many breeders were lost dur-
ing the previous year’s drought. The de-
valuation of sterling and the Australian
pound in relation to the dollar is ex-
pected to underpin both demand and the
relative level of prices by expanding the
market for British textiles and cheapening
raw wool in terms of dollars.
And hopes are that direct American
buying will supplant the recent practices
of some continental buyers, who pur-
chased raw wool in Australia in excess
of their own legitimate mill requirements,
shipped the surplus to Boston, where the
proceeds were used to buy American
motor-cars, which were later sold in the
Middle East and elsewhere, the final re-
sult being a handsome profit for those
concerned in terms of their own particular
continental currency. In this and parallel
ways others have gained some dollars at
Australia’s expense.
However, it is doubtful whether our
dollar earnings from wool this season will
exceed last season’s. To do so the Aus-
tralian price of the staple would need to
rise substantially and/or the physical
volume of direct sales to U.S. increased
materially. Assuming that prices re-
mained on an absolutely even keel, we
would need to export 44 p.c. more wool
to U.S. to offset the effects of a 30 p.c.
drop in the dollar value of our currency.
Reassuring features in the outlook are
that current world consumption of wool
is still running ahead of current world
production, mill stocks are moderate, and
official stocks, which are in strong hands,
are no longer a menace to prices in the
fine and medium grades. The whole posi-
tion, however, could change rapidly with
the development of economic recession
and unemployment overseas. For Aus-
tralia the two most vital factors are the
volume of production and the level of
costs, which is still rising. In addition
to returns from the current clip growers
will receive a windfall distribution of £25
million from J.O. profits.
Since the beginning of 1949 the co.’s
scrip has fluctuated between 425. 6d. and
38s. in the market. The figure last week-
end was 415., having strengthened Is.
following the currency reshuffle. The
return at 41s. is 4.4 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div.
basis, and the cover 40s. lid. in net
tangibles.
Cash Orders (Amalgamated), Ltd. (Syd.)
, Dividends s To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
& £ ££
1940.. 86,202 10 p.c. 15 p.c. 71,426 14,776 121,796
War gift, £lO,OOO 111,796
1941.. 80,070 10 p.c. 15 p.c. 71,426 8,644120,440
1942.. 73,817 10 „ 15 „ 71,426 2,391122,831
1943.. 64,107 10 „ 10 „ 52,618 1,489124,320
1944.. 52,676 10 „ 10 „ 52,618 58124,378
1945.. 57,569 10 „ 10 „ 52,618 4,951129,329
1946.. 66,660 10 „ 12i „ 62,022 4,638133,967
1947.. 76,668 10 „ 15 „ 71,426 5,242139,209
From tax reserve, £30,000 .. ..169,209
1948.. 105,007 10 p.c. 15 p.c. 71,426 38,581202,790
Prom book-debts reserve, £30,000 .. 232,790
1949.. 114,515 10p.c. 15 p.c. 71,426 48,089 275,879
♦Nine months
The success of this 26-year-old, which
operates in the three Eastern States, re-
flects the rapid growth of instalment-
buying under generally favorable
economic conditions —which have light-
ened the bad-debts risk—and the energy
and business acumen of the management,
Co.’s early history was not inspiring;
much of what was called profits, and a
lot more, was swallowed by bad debts
in 1930, and Bs. of each £1 ord. share
(£74,289) was jettisoned in 1932.
However, there were changes in the
control, the business was got on an even
keel in 1934 and has since made remark-
able progress. The prefs.—lso,ooo of
£1 each in a paid capital of £526,177-
have had their full contract rate (10 p.c.)
for the last 15 years. The ords. got a
steady 15 p.c. for the seven years to 1942,
sweetened with new issues at par; the
rate dropped to 10 p.c. for the next three
years, owing to war-time restrictions and
controls, rose to 12£ p.c. in 1946 and to
15 p.c. again for the last three expansive
post-war years.
Including the three subsidiaries —
Amalgamated Furnishing Co. (N.S.W.),
Amalgamated Cash Orders Pty. (Vic.)
and Amalgamated Pty. (Vic.) —
the business has 16 branches on the cash-
order and discount side in N. S. Wales,
and five each in Victoria and Queens-
land. Furniture showrooms number five
in N. S. Wales, three in Victoria and one
in Queensland. Since the war conditions
have been ideal for vendors of short-term
credit, and activity in home-building has
stimulated demand for furniture. Turn-
over of the group, which was nearly £3
million in 1947, rose to approximately
£4.25 million last term, when the improve-
ment amounted to over 21 p.c. Of the
£4.25 million cash orders accounted for
only 13 p.c., furniture for over 23 p.c.,
and time-payment contracts (largely in
connection with sales by the furniture
subsidiary) and small loans for the bal-
ance.
Gross earnings (£618,426) shot up by
£81,796. Including an unspecified pro-
vision for taxation and bad debts, and
£20,000 (same as previous term) for the
staff fund, exes. (£503,911) gobbled
£72,796 of the gain. The net result (up
£9508) was a record £114,515, or enough
to pay the pref. div. and show 26.4 p.c.
on ord. capital as against 23.9, 16.3, 13.7,
11.3 and 10 p.c. back to 1944. And
£30,000 was transferred from provision
for bad debts, which was considered
more than ample, to visible accumula-
tions, Pre-war the practice was to allow
10 p.c. of all new accounts as provision
for contingencies, to write off 50 p.c. of
any debts two months in arrears and the
entire amount where no collection had
been made for four months. The co.
has been fortunate that conditions en-
abled it to do this.
Balance-sheet figures further reflect the
expansion;
1941. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital.. £526,177 £526,177 £526,177 £526,177
Mortgage .. 12,350 12,850 12,350
Overdraft .. 113,084 118,668 114,667 187,873
Sundry
creditors*.. 139,653 187,152 389,572 408,853
Freeholds and
leaseholds .. 25,246 63,604 82,880 84,804
Equipment ~ 18,883 16,305 22,478 80,379
Investments .. 106,542 142,167 162,473 189,456
Stock .. 73,167 132,637 189,737 212,277
Book debts .. 699,541 623,973 764,413 923,895
Cash, etc. ~ 7,004 35,584 9,787 5,034
* Includes provision for taxation.
The year’s improvement in the more-or-
less liquid surplus (£722,586) was £62,765.
Still, when the books closed there was
15s. 2d. of outside money at risk in the
business for every pound belonging to
shareholders. Obviously everything de-
pends upon the soundness of book debts.
When the board decides to go ahead with
erection of the new three-storeyed fac-
tory and store on a site recently bought
in Sussex-street, Sydney, shareholders
might be asked for more.
The outlook in the furniture trade sug-
gests that sales there are at, or near, their
peak. Any drop in turnover would be
reflected in inverse ratio in net earnings,
which showed a wide margin over last
term’s distributions.
The market estimates the risks, and
prices the f.-p. 12s. ords. at 295., return-
ing 6.2 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. basis. The
pound prefs. at 325. 6d. yield 6.1 p.c.
Net tangible cover (book-value) is £5 6s.
lid. prefs. and 20s. lOd. ords.
Buckley and Nunn, Ltd. (Melb.)
, t Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
July, Profit. 7 p.c. Ordinary. serves.serves.*
& SL £ £ £
1940.. 27,860 10,500 4 p.c. = 12,962 4,398 30,399
To staff pension fund, £3OOO .. .. 27,399
1941.. 29,258 10,500 s£p.c.= 17,822 936 28,335
1942.. 38,230 10,500 s| „ ~ 17,822 9,908 38,243
To staff pension fund, £4OOO .. .. 34,243
1943.. 40,874 10,500 sip.c.= 17,822 12,552 46,795
1944.. 45,127 10,500 6j „ ~ 17,822 16,805 63,600
1945.. 56,048 10,500 5* „ ~17,822 27,726 91,326
To staff pension fund, £5OOO ~ .. 86,326
1946.. 70,717 10,500 8 p.c.= 25,923 34,294 120,620
To staff pension fund, £6OOO .. ..114,620
To inner reserves, £lO,OOO .. ..104,620
1947.. 79,677 10,500 8 p.c.= 25,923 43,254 147,874
To staff pension fund, £6OOO ~ ~ 141,874
From tax reserves, £15,000 .. .. 156,874
1948.. 84,061 10,500 9 p.c.= 29,164 183,271
Written off fixtures, £lO,OOO .. -26,397 183,271
To staff fund, £BOOO
From inner reserves, £30,000 .. .. 213,271
1949.. 75.928 10,500 9 p.c.=29,164 j,„, coc
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. \ 31 ' 2<H 244,535
♦After deducting book-value of goodwill (£60,741).
Not much, if any, threat to the earnings
of this old-established Melbourne retailer
is contained in last week’s currency re-
shuffle. Very few American goods are
on the shelves today, and maintenance of
the Australian-Sterling exchange rate on
an even keel has removed any im-
mediate danger of inventory losses on
that account. The co. is now in a.
stronger position than it has been at any
time during the last 20 years. Careful
budgeting, which has made for better
buying and stopped up some former out-
lets, a buoyant national income, full em-
ployment and conservative dividend
policy, with consequent strengthening of
reserves and finances, have combined to
set it there.
Divs. averaged a shade over 13 p.c.,
sweetened with £133,221 of bonus scrip,
during the booming 1920’5, followed by
an average of 1.8 p.c. for the six difficult
years to 1936. The mischief occurred
mainly in connection with high-grade
imported goods. After that more atten-
tion was given to medium-priced lines
and other matters, already referred to,
and earnings responded as turnover
advanced.
Last term’s sales were the best
yet, but for the first time in the last
decade net earnings turned in the wrong
direction. The slip was £8133, due to
the rise in wage and other costs and the
narrower gross margins allowed under
price-control. Still, the £75,928 of profit
covered the pref. div. and 20.1 p.c. on
the £324,041 ord. capital, compared with
22.7, 21.3, 18.5, 14, 10.6, 9.3 and 8.5 p.c.
back to 1942. So repetition of the 9 p.c.
distribution, of which 2 p.c. is called
bonus, remained a comfortable matter.
The £30,000 taken from inner reserves
and put in the window was intended as
a buffer against possible inventory losses
arising from alteration of exchange rates.
During the year the mortgage
(£120,000) was repaid and a freehold at
the rear of the main building and front-
ing Little Bourke-street was bought—the
board had long been sorry the company
ever parted with it originally—and cash,
etc. (down £150,751) was drawn upon for
the purpose:
1942. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Ord. capital.. £324,041 £824,041 £824,041 £324,041
Pref. capital.. 150,000 150,000 150,000 150,000
Mortgage .. 225,000 140,000 120,000
Sundry creditors,
etc. .. 133,947 142,907 141,679 18^,377
Staff fund . . 18,967 36,449 45,199 51,240
Tax provision 50,000 93,152 78,126 68,220
Freehold, etc. 496,874 477,855 474,280 618,270
Plant, etc. . . 102,722 66,890 52,002 . 51,141
Stock .. 251,840 247,092 292,513 388,768
Book debts, etc. 44,793 88,452 50,797 46,261
Cash, etc. .. 50,192 216,456 193,787 43,086
Goodwill .. 60,741 60,741 60,741 60,741
Growth in the freehold item was £43,990.
With impending changes in the economic
climate, much depends upon the sound-
ness of stocks (up £96,255). The more-
or-less liquid surplus (£171,228) was
£19,135 stronger, despite the outlay on
fixed assets. Another freehold, adjoining
the Little Bourke-street one, has been
bought since the close of accounts.
At 345. the f.-p. pound ords., covered
by 255. lOd. in net tangibles, return 5.3
p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis. The 7 p.c.
prefs. at 325. yield 4.4 p.c., and net tan-
gible cover i§ £3 15s. lOd.
Australia Hotel Co. (Sydney)
, umdends N Nominal
Pref. Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves.f
1941 .. 37,497 1980 7Jp.c.= 35,025 155,108
1942 .. 37,008 1980 7* „ „ 35,025 155,111
1943 .. 49,852 1980 8 „ „ 37,360 165,623
1944 .. 59,635 1980 8 „ „ 37,360 185,918
1945 .. 62,360 1980 8 „ „ 37,860 208,938
1946 .. 64,441 1980 8 „ „ 37,360 224,039
1947 .. 38,545 1980 7 „ „ 32,690 222,914
Reserves drawn upon, £lO,OOO .. 212,914
1948 .. 27,105 1980 6 p.c. = 28,020 210,019
Reserves drawn upon, £lO,OOO .. 200,019
1949 . . 27,345 1980 6 p.c. = 28,020 197,364
t Subject to goodwill, £25,000, and excluding de-
preciation reserve ( £140,000 as at June 30, 1949).
Here the investor is faced with the
anomaly of a sharp contraction in net
earnings during a period of boom and
free spending. Over the last four years
the profit figure has been more than cut
in halves, and the div. lowered from
8 p.c. to 6 p.c. The bar, lounge, catering
and accommodation trade have kept step
with the times ; but, with tariff and liquor
charges controlled, the increased takings
have failed to keep pace with recurrent
wage-lifts and the rise in the cost of
food, replacements and maintenance.
Aggravated by the 40-hour week and staff
and other difficulties, all these things have
hit large and fashionable hotels like the
Australia, which have to maintain a
high standard of comfort and service to
preserve their goodwill, harder than most
other trades.
Last term turnover showed “appreci-
able” increase. But net earnings were
only £240 better at £27,345, second-
poorest showing in the last 16 years. It
covered the pref. div. (£1980) and 5.4 p.c.
on the £467,003 of ord. capital as against
5.3, 6.7, 11.3, 12.9 and 12.4 p.c. back to


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
■
j
GIVES
PERSONALITY
TO YOUR
WRITING
ĵ
THE POPULAR PEN
with the
MARVELLOUS NIB
Conway Stewart & Co. Ltd.,
London.
S. W. RAMSAY
SMOKERS !
THE BRITISH
BUTTNER PIPE
with highly-porons ceramic filter.
No breakingr-ln, bite, burn, wet
dottle or waste.
19/6 ea. Spare Filters 1/8 ea.
Also Buttner Plastic Pouches
and Pipe Reamers.
Obtainable at: Boans Ltd. and T.
Sharp, Perth. Nat Solomons and
Harris Scarfe Ltd., Adelaide. Alstons,
Dammana, and J. Frost, Melbourne.
Farmers, Anthony Horderns, Grace
Bros., Peapes, Prior Bros, and Angus
& Ooote, Sydney. R. Black, Queen
St., Brisbane. Or direct from the
Distributors—
CHARLES WHETTON Pty. Ltd.,
156 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Illustrated leaflet on request.
j
BABY
LOVES
to ravel in the delight*
fol cream-like lather of
Cuticnra Soap* If
healthy and ex-
quisitely soft
and velvety.
One of the famous
trio-Coticara Soap,
Ointment and Tal-
cum Posadas.
830
ĵ
j
Nu-METAL
SAVES
ENGINE
REBORE
NEW
RINGS
Just pour RE-NU liquid NU-METAL
through plug holes. NU-METAL will re-
condition your motor while you drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles, and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL has been proved and
tested by over 100,000 users since 1934,
many owners having used NU-METAL
three and four times In the same engine.
NU-METAL comes to you to a separ-
ate tube for each cylinder, thus eliminat-
ing guess work. Municipal Councils,
Engineers, etc., use NU-METAL. Treatment
coyts for 1. 4,6, 8 cylinders, 10/6, 30/-,
J7/£, 45/-. Call, write, or phone MA7250,
Mail Orders post free. C.O.D.’s plus
Postal Charges.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return NU-
METAL to treat a Cylinder Engine.
I enclose Cheque—P.N.
Or please send me illustrated Folder
describing action of NU-METAL.
—
Address mm ■r m IT-11 rj
B. 28.9/49
BRISTOL TRADING COMPANY
... laFloor. Bristol House,
147 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. MA 725 f.
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
62 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
TIPWtI
No. 2 of a
Series
"SURVIVAL OF THE FITTEST" was o popular
/N slogan used by Ronaldson-Tippett more than 40
years ago when such Oil Engines as the one
shown above were winning their way with Aus-
tralian farmers and graziers.
The "Fittest" has indeed flourished! Vastly different
from these early models through modem Improve-
ments, Ronaldson-Tippett Engines are, to-day, firm
favourites all over Australia —a position won by
continued adherence to the founders' ideals of
Reliability, Economy and Long Life.
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT LTD.
Head Office: Ballarat, Victoria. Showrooms: 628 Bourke St., Mel-
bourne. jy.S.B'. Distributors: Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Ltd., 42
Bridge St., Sydney. Q’land Distributors: Ronaldson Tippett (Qld.)
Pty., Ltd., Scottish Union House, 127 Eagle St., Brisbane.
HONfIIDSONTIPPETT
ENGINES
THE “WILD CAT” MONTHLY
Economic, Market and Financial Conditions.
Company Accounts and Mining Activities.
Price: 2/- per single copy—22/6 a year, post free.
THE BROKEN HILL
CORPORATION LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
EXCHANGE OF
REDEEMABLE PREFERENCE STOCK
IN THE BROKEN HILL CORPORATION LIMITED
FOR PREFERENCE SHARES IN
THE CONSOLIDATED ZINC
CORPORATION LIMITED
* (Incorporated in England)
Extracts from an Offer by The Consolidated Zinc Corporation Limited to Preference
Stockholders of The Broken Hill Corporation Limited, and from an accompanying
letter from the Secretary of The Consolidated Zinc Corporation Limited.
When, in 1947, The Broken Hill Corporation
Limited was formed, as a subsidiary of The Zinc
Corporation, Limited, it was hoped that it would
provide a satisfactory means of dealing with
many of the problems of finance, control and
management which were outside the scope of the
main business of the Zinc Corporation, namely,
the operation of its mine and treatment plants
at Broken Hill. It was not, however, at that
time expected that an opportunity would occur
so soon to acquire the Ordinary Share capital of
Imperial Smelting Corporation Limited and the
Preference and Ordinary Share capital of Sulphide
Corporation, Limited.
The acquisition of these interests with their
widely divergent activities has emphasised the
need for simplification in the control and manage-
ment of The Zinc Corporation, Limited, and its
group of companies situated both in the United
Kingdom and in Australia. The Consolidated
Zinc Corporation Limited was accordingly formed
for the purpose of effecting a general scheme of
consolidation of this Group.
Pursuant to an Offer made on the 14th March,
1949, the Consolidated Zinc Corporation has
acquired the whole of the issued stock and shares
of The Zinc Corporation, Limited, in exchange for
Shares in The Consolidated Zinc Corporation
Limited credited as fully paid.
In the terms of a Prospectus dated 27th May,
1949, the Consolidated Zinc Corporation issued for
cash 2,500,000 4i% Cumulative Preference Shares
of £1 each at par.
In completion of the scheme of consolidation
outlined in the Offer dated 14th March, 1949, made
to Members of The Zinc Corporation, Limited, it
has now been decided to proceed with the third
and final stage, namely, the exchange of Prefer-
ence Stock in the Broken Hill Corporation for
Preference Shares in the Consolidated Zinc Cor-
poration.
Accordingly, The Consolidated Zinc Corporation
Limited is now offering one Preference Share of
£l, together with a cash payment of 1/- (English
currency) in exchange for every £1 of Preference
Stock in The Broken Hill Corporation Limited,
such exchange being on the terms fully set out in
the Offer.
Subject to this offer becoming unconditional,
the Directors of The Broken Hill Corporation
Limited propose to pay on the 2nd January, 1950,
to Preference Stockholders registered on the
date the offer becomes unconditional the half-
yearly dividend (less U.K. Income Tax) on the
44% Redeemable Cumulative Preference Stock of
the Broken Hill Corporation in respect of the
period Ist July, 1949, to 31st December, 1949.
The Preference Shares of the Consolidated Zinc
Corporation to be issued in pursuance of this
offer will rank for dividend on the full nominal
amount thereof as on and from Ist January,
1950.
It is proposed to apply to the Council of the
Stock Exchange, London, and to the Stock Ex-
changes at Adelaide, Melbourne and Sydney for
permission to deal in and for quotation for the
Preference Shares of the Corporation to be
allotted credited as fully paid in pursuance of
this offer upon such shares being so allotted.
Subject to the present offer being accepted in
full, the issued and paid up capital of the Con-
solidated Zinc Corporation will be £11,024,573
divided into 4,476,626 44 per cent. Cumulative
Preference Shares of £1 each, and 6,547,947 Ordi-
nary Shares of £1 each.
This offer is conditional upon a 90% acceptance
or such lower percentage as the Consolidated
Zinc Corporation may accept as sufficient and
will, if accepted in full, make The Broken Hill
Corporation a wholly-owned subsidiary of The
Consolidated Zinc Corporation; the Directors
have no intention of liquidating The Broken Hill
Corporation Limited.
The dividend dates of both securities are identi-
cal and gross income will be unaffected by the
exchange. The average annual profits for the last
ten years of the Companies which now comprise
the Consolidated Zinc Corporation Group are
sufficient to cover the Preference Dividend re-
quirements of the Consolidated Zinc Corporation
nearly 5 times, while the combined net assets of
the Group provide capital cover on the Prefer-
ence Shares of approximately 2.4 times.
All monetary references above are shown in
English currency.
Copies of the full Offer and Appendix thereto can be obtained during usual business hours from :
THE AUSTRALIAN TRANSFER OFFICE.
THE CONSOLIDATED ZINC CORPORATION LIMITED,
360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
1944. So for the third year in
succession reserves had to be
drawn upon to pay the div.,
which was kept at 6 p.c. And
there is nothing to suggest that
the co. did much, if any, better
than the published accounts
show. To meet outlay on de-
ferred maintenance, reserves
previously provided for the pur-
pose were drawn upon for
£lO,OOO. The usual £lO,OOO was
set aside for depreciation.
The failure of net earnings to
match dividend payments shows
up again in a growth of £2654
in the excess of outside liabilities
over more-or-less liquids:
1947. 1948. 1949.
Stock ~ £5,798 £9,879 £9,334
Book debts 7,217 14,062 10,868
Cash, etc... 81,850 61,850 55,585
I/iquid assets £94,865 £85,791 £75,237
Mortgage .. 150,000 160,000 150,000
Creditors*.. 69,798 68,287 60,887
Excess
liabilities £124,931 £132,496 £135,150
?roperty and
equipment 962,517 962,517 962,517
Paid capital 500,003 500,003 500,003
* Including tax provision.
Further deferred outlay on re-
placements can be expected as
circumstances permit.
Whether the cheapening of the
Australian pound in terms of
dollars will result in more
American tourist traffic to Aus-
tralia remains to be seen. Ap-
pearances are that the co. will
be fortunate to maintain an all-
round 6 p.c. div., for a while at
any rate. Without further lifts
in tariff and liquor charges, any
new advance in costs will make
it difficult to maintain hotel
profits at their current level.
Over the last 12 months the
market lowered its bid for the
co.’s ords. from 305., or there-
abouts, to 245. 6d. At the lower
figure the return is 4.9 p.c. on a
6 p.c. div, basis. The prefs. at
245. yield 5 p.c. Including the
depreciation reserve, net tangible
cover is £24 12s. prefs. and 31s.
2d. ords.
Revival of Goldmining
The cheapening of Sterling
and the Australian pound in re-
lation to the dollar has given the
languishing Australian goldmin-
ing industry a new lease of life,
as well as its greatest boost
since the early 1930’5, when
Britain went “off gold” and U.S.
later raised the price of the
metal from 20.67 dollars to 35
dollars an ounce. One immedi-
ate effect has been a sharp rise
of 44 p.c. in the Australian price
of the yellow metal, from £lO
15s. 3d. to £l5 9s. lOd. a fine
ounce. That means a lift in the
value of existing ore reserves
from 10.765. to 15.495. per dwt.
It will bring a lot more ore with-
in payable limits, stimulate pros-
pecting, increase the quantity of
ore milled (subject to the avail-
ability of labor and equipment),
and bring some increase in the
output of gold and the earnings
of producers.
Australian gold production
reached its peak in 1903 at
3,838,000 fine ounces, and then
declined continuously until 1929,
when it touched its lowest level
at 427,0000 z. It rose continu-
ously from 1930 to 1939, when
it reached 1,646,0000 z. This ex-
pansion followed rises in the
price of the metal for reasons
already mentioned. Another
contributing factor was the
availability of manpower, owing
to widespread unemployment
among other industries during
the slump of the early 1930’5.
After the outbreak of war the
industry lost manpower through
enlistments and transfers to
essential services, and a lot of
power and other equipment was
requisitioned for war purposes.
Production dropped to 657,000
dunces in 1944, rose to 937,654
ounces in 1947 and fell to 891,097
ounces in 1948, when rising
costs squeezed many marginal
producers out of business and
reduced the payable ore reserves
and profits of others —some old
and large mines recently
operated at a loss for the first
time.
What the actual increase in
earnings and profits of exist-
ing producers will amount to
depends partly upon the extent
to which they decide to take
advantage of the higher price to
prolong the life of their mines
by including ore of a grade un-
profitable with gold at £lO 15s.
3d. an ounce, and partly upon
the extent to which costs con-
tinue to rise. The new price
means a “prosperity” increase of
about 18s. a week in miners’
pay envelopes in Westralia, and
further rises in the price of stores
and equipment can be expected.
What the investor needs to
watch is the quantity and aver-
age grade of pay-ore actually
measured up, prospects of de-
veloping further payable re-
serves, mill efficiency as
measured by the percentage of
recovery, and the level of costs,
which varies greatly from mine
to mine and from locality to
locality. While 3dwt. ore might
become payable in some cases,
6dwt. to Bdwt. and better may be
necessaiy to assure satisfactory
profits in others. Each mine
must be judged on its own
merits.
In the first flush of excite-
ment there was heavy trading in
gold scrip on the Stock Ex-
changes. Buyers pushed prices
too high, as they usually do in
such circumstances, and part of
the earlier gains, ranging from
around 10 p.c. to 50 p.c. and
more, have been lost. However,
the scrip of all well-established
and promising producers stands
well above the level of prices
before September 19. London
and Johannesburg had a similar
experience.
The extent to which our dollar
earnings are likely to benefit de-
pends upon increased produc-
tion of the yellow metal itself;
the U.S. buying price of gold is
still 35 dollars an ounce.


CHAMPAGNE
& SPARKLING
BURGUNDY
PENFOLDS WINES
Legal Notice.
STATUTORY NOTICE TO NEXT-OF-KIN.
RE GEORGE LEWIS late of Barcaldine
in the State of Queensland Draper de-
ceased.—NOTlCE is hereby given that
THOMAS MURRAY half-brother of
George Lewis deceased or any person or
persons claiming by through or under
him by derivative title or otherwise are
hereby required to forward to the Local
Deputy Public Curator Rockhampton
proof of their relationship to the said
George Lewis deceased on or before the
30th day of November One thousand nine
hundred and forty-nine and that after the
expiration of the last-mentioned date the
Local Deputy Public Curator of Rock-
hampton will proceed with the distribu-
tion of the assets of the said deceased
among the parties entitled thereto having
regard only to the claims of which he
shall then have had notice. —DATED this
twenty-sixth day of August, 1949.—J. R.
JORDAN, Local Deputy Public Curator,
Rockhampton.
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL 'GOODS
SPECIALISTS
PS
A
a
a
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest Invention by Dr. L.
Barrere brings to rupture sufferers an
entirely new method of control, the
result of 40 years’ practice and im-
provements, proved completely suc-
cessful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acta like the
hand when placed flat upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, bold the intestine
in its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BARBERS DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 261), 243 Elizabeth (St., Sydney
khp mm ■*/
etotemeots. etc.. Died tn **•
“Sander*" can be eecurely
bound and converted Into o
perfect book of reference at
the end of each month —or
any other period.
Jackson & O’Sulijvan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
SANDERS*
Correspondence. I n v o I c
60ce FILE?
Correspondence, invoice*
OtunbuUng Agent
W C Pentold e Ce. Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PEBTU
I
Vsrdoa A 8on» Ltd.
Dtckct Bee* Ce. tAest J
NoraUD Bros Pty. Ltd.
PrU« Mi far-
ther ißf«rw»U»a
Business, Rollouy, Etc.
Up in a Balloon, Boys!
A once-bitten sharemarket
seems to have learned the lesson
that inflation is not a true “bull”
point. The spectre of rising prices
looms ever more inexorably
the more one considers the im-
plications of last week’s currency
adjustments; but except for the
obvious and special case of
mining scrip, the Stock Ex-
change has shown not a spark
of enthusiasm at the prospect;
not even all the Pastorals have
edged upwards.
Gold shares didn’t maintain
the first, fine, careless rapture of
D-valuation Day, either. Second
thoughts injected a certain scep-
ticism into the market as to
whether our present exchange-
rate against sterling can really
prevail for very long next year,
when the elections are out of the
way. It could justify itself all
right, but only through an im-
mediate and tremendous change
of heart in the Government and
the nation generally.
Going down all the way with
sterling was the easiest way to
react, from the political and most
other aspects. The full ex-
tent of the British devaluation
was probably as much a surprise
in Canberra as anywhere else,
and there wasn’t much advance
notice to the Government. It
can be said for our passive re-
sponse that it leaves us, tem-
porarily at least, in a sheltered
position to watch the new global
pattern taking shape as other
countries react to cheaper ster-
ling. Indeed, the widespread de-
preciation that is actually occur-
ring far beyond the limits of the
sterling area is in itself a partial
vindication of Mr. Chifley’s
caution.
But the deadly menace of in-
flation threatens Australia from
many quarters. It is not only a
matter of our trade with the
countries that haven’t devalued
or have only partly devalued
with sterling, although this trade
itself may immediately add about
7 p.c. to our total export income
(through higher exchange-
bonuses), and may add about
5 p.c. to the overall cost of Aus-
tralian imports.
There is also the unwanted
stimulus from countries that
have devalued. Sydney wool
prices jumped immediately last
week through higher British and
European bids as well as bids
from U.S. buyers; all the Euro-
pean group hope to sell more
of their finished textiles in the
American market since their de-
valuation. Hence further in-
creases in Australian export in-
comes; and simultane-
ously, of course, our local
textile industry is forced
to pay more for its wool
—a cost that must shortly
be passed on to the
public.
Imports from within
the sterling area will
chime into this inflation-
ary roundelay. Metal
prices have already soared
in Britain to the level of
their new cost in dollars,
and all finished products
arriving in this coun-
try henceforth will 'reflect the
dearer raw materials. More-
over, the fact that the United
Kingdom now has a better
selling market in the U.S.
for its cars and machinery will
enable manufacturers to demand
higher prices all round.
There is, indeed, the danger
stressed by Mr. Menzies last
week, that in real terms we will
begin to receive less and less of
Britain’s output as she attempts
to thrust her way into the Ameri-
can market —an eerie prospect
this, of receiving ever more
money from our overseas trade
but still fewer goods.
All these inflationary influ-
ences may be expected to re-
bound and gather force from
one another, promoting a further
series of wages - costs - prices
spirals. They could easily prove
to be the last, intolerable strains
on the back of our financial
system. The fever won’t be cured
by exchange appreciation nor any
other kind of monetary finessing
—only a great productive effort
will achieve that —but there
would be absolutely no justifica-
tion for aggravating our condi-
tion by an undervalued currency
unless some brisk concurrent
“Could y' lend us a dollar —or a coupla quid'll do?"
action was planned to raise the
national output.
Does the Prime Minister con-
template action, then? His own
words gave the doleful answer
last week:— *
I do not want the hon. member
(Mr. Holt) to take undue hope that
the Government will do anything to
remove price increases or offer sub-
sidies to offset the increased prices.
—and 48 hours later the
A.C.T.U. confirmed its rejection
of incentive payments.
The charitable interpretation
is that the Prime Minister hasn’t
realised how much inflation we
may be in for. The elementary
fact that dollar imports, anyway,
must become dearer has wrung
an admission from him that
“this higher cost must ultimately
be reflected, at least in part, in
higher prices for some of the
goods we produce.”
But the still graver peril of
secondary inflation inside the
sterling group is evidently out-
side Mr. Chifley’s range of
vision. Since, he says,
the United Kingdom itself supplies
us with roughly half of our total
imports, and since many other coun-
tries are likely to keep in step with
sterling, there will be no immediate
increase in costs over by far the
greater part of our import trade.
The operative word is “immedi-
ate” ; the Government expects
no serious inflation until the
elections, and for that period
rural voters will continue to be
ingratiated by the present ex-
change-bonus. Beyond the
elections there is no policy what-
ever, and expediency will be the
dictator.
With the encouragement it
offers for new Australian indus-
tries, the present exchange-rate
might be a practical and desir-
able proposition under a Govern-
ment that was vowed to raise
output by releasing the springs
of enterprise and by attacking
our basic shortage of coal. But
under the present administration
the sharemarket may well remain
sceptical about the currency.
This is another of the great
issues for which a settlement in
on© way or another may be ex-
pected in December, and until
then the Stock Exchanges have
reason to remain cagey. Out-
side the sharemarket, no doubt,
the order of the day is again for
rising prices; but investors will
reflect that the higher we ascend
in this unballasted balloon the
harder must be our ultimate
thud to earth.
Devaluation’s Effects in N.Z.
Gold’s rise might put an extra
£300,000-odd yearly into New
Zealand gold producers’ pockets
to offset losses on the trade front
in the new line-up of currencies,
but Maorilanders don’t think
this will go far towards footing
the increased bill for imports
when the pressure of devalua-
tion begins to make itself felt.
M. prostrate gold industry
is a mere ghost of what it was
in the palmy days, and has been
groggy since the “new-look”
Dominion pound almost gave it
the k.o. last year. If recovery
is ahead it will be slow, at best,
but the lifeline will give a chance
for resuscitation measures in
directions where concerns were
at, or near, the end of their
tether. Total output lately has
been at the rate of less than
100,000 oz, yearly, against double
this eight years ago, when the
net price for gold (after paying
12s. 6d. per ounce tax) was
£lO 2s. 9d.
Today M.L.’s Reserve Bank
is paying £l2 4s. 6d., which is
£3 16s. better than the pittance
of £8 Bs. 6d. before devaluation.
N. most famous mine, at
Waihi, operated by Martha Gold
Mining Co., Ltd., which would
have been completely closed
down by the end of this year,
after yielding up more than £25
million in gold and silver over
60-odd years, has extensive re-
serves of low-grade ore, some of
which will be workable at the
new price.
On N.Z.’s farm front, devalu-
ation is more likely to hinder
than to help in carrying out the
undertaking given to John Bull
a while ago to increase food
shipments by 25 p.c. over the
next five years. Farmers aren’t
happy about trends in costs.
The latest critic is William E.
Hale, dairy-industry leader and
ex-chairman of N.Z.’s Dairy
Board, who says the fall in the
pound will hit farm incomes and
will whittle down the standard
of living of other Maorilanders,
unless outputs can be boosted
for all industry. If, at the same
time, enough wool, skins, hides,
pelts, sausage-casings and lamb
carcasses can be turned out to
swell the dollar pool by cashing-
in handsomely through direct
sales to Uncle Sam, the outlook
might even be rosy, but there
are soft spots. Producers put
tax-cuts high on their list of
demands, which also include
relief from objectionable land-
sales legislation—many of them
call this expropriation—and an
opportunity to compete on equal
terms for labor against pam-
pered secondary industries. To-
day, ’tis said, efficient farmers
run the risk of being pushed off
their properties to make way for
advancing land nationalisation.
In N.Z.’s general-business
field, import controls held trade
in a vice-like grip when the drop
in sterling unloosed a flood of
orders from nearly every other
country for anything J.B. had
to sell. Under the halting effect
of annual import licences, it was
the standstill season in Maori-
land for overseas ordering while
the new import-licensing
schedule was being slowly and
laboriously hatched out. For
M.L. traders it was galling to be
kept waiting for the starting-
pistol while rivals had a free run
of the British market, and they
predicted they’d be offered only
remnants, much of them third-
grade, when they arrived after
the fair. Price trends, which are
bound to be upward, will go
against them, too, which means
that Maorilanders can expect a
rise in living costs early in 1950.
The Institute of Industrial
Management in Sydney is
digging a competitive spur into
the standards of public com-
panies’ annual reports ; it offers
an award for the best accounts
published in Australia next year
by a listed company. From
whatever board-room comes the
Glamor Balance-Sheet of 1950
(this parade being judged not so
much for “attractive” figures as
for the information revealed),
it is hoped that all directorates
will be roused to a keener sense
of duty; for an urgent duty they
have these days to promote
goodwill and understanding be-
tween shareholders, employees
and the general public; and one
obvious method is to issue more
informative accounts. The In-
stitute doesn’t say what shape
its award will take. Perhaps
the best goad would have been
a threat to issue booby prizes to
some of the worst offenders.
Under its breath. The Bulletin
still confers an occasional
booby, though time has blunted
our sense of indignation since
it was written of a certain
brewery’s balance-sheet many
years ago that “the directors re-
sponsible for it should be sen-
tenced to sit for a month on their
broken glass bottles.”


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
\ Established 1878
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
0. 0. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN 0. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
A >■
4m
yy
■ r y
tar tar
ItoT
fy/Aiij wwk|
Australia’s free and independent life
assurance offices, working in the interests
of more than three million policyholders,
have to think and act democratically
in the interests of the majority. But
there are times when hide-bound procedure
must be cut, and the normal services of the
offices expedited. In such emergency cases
your present Life Offices do all they can,
through courteous and kindly service, to
help their policyholders. And they do this
despite the fact that administrative
costs in this country are so low that
Australian Life Offices are able to give
policyholders maximum benefits
jn the form of bonuses.
EVERY AUSTRALIAN BENEFITS THROUGH THE ACTIVITIES
OF OUR FREE AND INDEPENDENT
LIFE ASSURANCE OFFICES
ISSUED By THE LEADING LIFE ASSURANCE OFFICES IN AUSTRALIA
I
'Vie Peopled Bank"
In the year 1829 the Sydney "Monitor’ news-
paper. referring to the Bank of New South Wales,
which had been established in 1817 under Governor
Lachlan Macquarie, wrote: —
”Macquarie s Bank is supported by the people,
Le., by the farmers, merchants, shopkeepers,
mariners, soap-boilers, tanners, butchers, bakers,
gardeners, cedar-gatherers and craft builders of the
colony. It is emphatically, therefore, the peoples
bank
To-day, with a proud record of continuous
service to the people of Australia for over 130
years, the "Wales” is still "emphatically the
people's bank.” The people’s appreciation of the
services rendered by the Bank and of its efficiency
and business methods is shown by the fact that
deposits now exceed £230 million in Australia alone.
ĵ
The traditions which have
enabled the “Wales” to retain
the loyalty of its several hundred
thousand customers are being
maintained to-day.
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
Incorporated In New Sooth Wales with limited liability
Does your Will express
your present wishes?
It may need revision
Make a point of reading your Will to-day
and ask yourself whether it expresses your present
wishes —in the light of changed conditions.
If you desire re-assurance on any of its aspects —or
desire to consider a new plan that will ensure the maxi-
mum benefits for your dependents you should discuss
your problems with a senior officer of Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited.
At the same time you would do well to consider the
advantages of appointing
Perpetual Trustee Com-
any Limited as your
Executor and Trustee
alone or joindy with a
relative or friend.
The Company has more
than 62 years experience
in the management of
Estate of many different
kinds. It can help you
to plan your Estate to the
best advantage of your
dependents and will
provide for its efficient
management, when re-
quired to act.
The new plans you make
should be embodied in your
Will by your Solicitor.
Write for the booklet
describing the Company’s
service.
DIEECTOBS:
Hon. T. A. J. PLATFAIE, M.L.C.
(Chairman):
E. B. KNOX;
ALLEN C. LEWIS;
Hon. J. P. ABBOTT, H.H.B.
D. B. LYSAGHT;
SAMUEL HOEDEBN;
H. V. DOUGLASS.
Managing Director
A. G. ABMYTAGB, Manager
•
TRUST & AGENCY FUNDS
UNDER ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £68,000,000
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OP
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES 4 OTHERS, ADMINISTRATION ETC.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WAGGA VAGGA, TAMWORTH and ORANGE
Queensland Oil Hunt
“Petro”: Following a long
silence, which has covered most
of its exploratory work in the
search for petroleum in southern
Queensland, the Shell Co. has
announced the location chosen
for its first deep-test well, to be
commenced in mid-December.
During this exploratory period
Shell has avoided undue pub-
licity, for reasons which are obvi-
ous to those who know the oil
game. The results of oil ex-
ploration—even when conducted
with the aid of the most modern
refinements and carried out by a
staff possessing a world-wide
knowledge of the capabilities
and (even more important) of
the limitations of such refine-
ments —are only a first step to-
wards the goal of commercial
production. The information
obtainable by such means con-
sists essentially of data as to the
probability of the existence of
a “trap” (which often differs
very considerably from the lay-
man’s conception of that much-
abused term, “structure”);
the “trap” must be capable
of collecting and retaining
oil in worth-while quantities.
Such information is preponder-
antly of technical interest, and
to broadcast it is not to the
advantage of a company which
is independent both of the
whims of the small investor and
of Government grants-in-aid.
From the current Press re-
lease, it is evident that the Shell
Co. has discovered an area in
Queensland under which the
probability of a “trap” is suffi-
ciently good to warrant the ex-
pense of modern deep-drilling
operations. The remoteness of
the location, 100 miles from the
railhead at Springsure, indicates
that no consideration of develop-
ment or transport costs has
been allowed to interfere with
the siting. Evidently the one
consideration has been to find
the most favorable point for
proving the presence or
absence, within an other-
wise satisfactory “trap,” of
a second vital condition for the
commercial production of pet-
roleum—that is, the presence,
under the area, of a storage bed,
or beds, of sufficient thickness,
porosity, permeability and ex-
tent. The answer to the ques-
tion as to whether it exists or
not can be obtained only by the
costly method of deep-drilling.
For the location and equipment
decided upon, this will entail the
road transporting and consump-
tion of 750 gallons of dieseline
a day, to name only one item.
That cost will not fall on the
shoulders of the Australian tax-
payer, who is, however, the un-
consulted contributor to the costs
of both exploration and ex-
ploitation being carried out by
small Government-aided oil
companies.
Ours faithfully F. B. Wenarke
challenges one part of “Lemon’s’
tartness (in B. 7/9/’49):
While agreeing with the essential
point of that article, I would point
out an unfortunate error. It says
“an even more remarkable rise in
share values is that of Roma Blocks
following the receipt of the rumor
[about Hohoro, H. Guinea].”
The fact is, Roma Blocks sold at
4s. 6d. several weeks before the
rumor, and have remained between
4s. and 4s. 6d. since the rumor.
Anyway, only a few hundred were
sold.
Roma Blocks have risen from the
figure they were at about a month ago
because of the nearing completion of
the plans of thorough investigation of
the Roma field. That the past expendi-
ture can be regarded as having a defi-
nite value is borne out by recent
examinations and the fact that the
Shell Co. has decided to put down a
12,000 ft. bore at a point not many
miles from the Roma co.’s leases.
Why condemn absolutely any rise
of Roma shares in sympathy with a
rise in Oil Search? If a gusher were
found as close as Moresby it would
do much to remove the bias among
Australians that the finding of oil
“couldn’t happen here.”
Roma Blocks’ contributing shares
(paid to 17s. each) had advanced
from 2s. 6d. to 4s. before Oil
Search jumped. But there was
also a small advance (since lost)
at the time of the Moresby re-
port. Similar behavior was
shown by shares of Roma North,
which has a 25 p.c. interest in
the Roma Drilling Pool, as
against the Blocks’ holding of
yi\ p.c. The advance of this
pair during August—coincid-
ing with the start of a seismic
examination by Commonwealth
geologists—was more lasting
than that of Oil Search, though
the market still rates them
much below par.
Textiles in U.S.A.
Synthetic textiles have taken a
jolt on the American market
over the past 12 months. For
one thing, they have had to meet
sharper competition from cotton
goods. Cotton had already gone
through its period of readjust-
ment to more realistic prices
and more attractive styling ; and
a year ago it started to replace
rayon almost entirely in the large
volume lines such as the $3, $4
and $5 house-dress trade. In-
ventories of the “greige” rayon
tended to pile up, and the price
of dyestuffs was raised, together
with production costs generally,
A buyers’ market was some-
thing the young rayon industry
hadn’t experienced. Dumping
became fairly common and
cheaper materials were used,
followed by cheaper dyeing,
finishing and cutting—which did
nothing to help rayon’s reputa-
tion.
The industry believes now that
the bottom has been reached,
but resigns itself to the need for
economies i n production
methods, narrower profit mar-
gins and “well-timed styling.”
Besides some new fibres that are
being developed, experiments
are proceeding in the blending
of older yarns with the aim of
finding fresh market applications.
Incidentally, the chenille bed-
spread trade has also had a
rough market in U.S.A. lately.
Competition killed a number of
“fly-by-night” concerns, and
surplus inventories are still be-
ing worked off.


j
B
Vi
f
:
m
*f
7
u
\
y
In
tins of 20
37-
SUPER VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
BemsomZ/Meoges
OLD BOND STREET, LONDON
LTD
There are times which call for
something better than the merely
very good, and demand
the unquestionable best . Where
cigarettes are concerned the man
of taste is guided by the
words (( Benson & Hedges,
Old Bond Street, London From
this famous address comes fine
tobacco perfection to satisfy all those
occasions when only the best will do .
BY APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS TO
HIS MAJESTY THE KING
AUSTRALIA’S LOWEST-PRICED
L
10 H P SEDAN
'v, v cw'v ' r
, * m MSM
»
at
' : : x
m
■m.
m
m
m
m
>»:■■
»5
ntimiim
v
:
hm
»*«**
%
w
WMM -V
v vsfv b/j¥b m /*>
;I||| ::
' <V'?| •• £|Sk '
• iP'Jf
..** \ ¥>
" / & •>•' 5 '
m
Look at Prefect’s smart new styling! Modern
as the minute, yet in classic good taste.
Prefect is still Australia’s lowest priced Sedan
■—with full comfort for four big grown-ups,
10 h.p. economy, sterling reliability and the
backing of widespread service facilities,
through nation-wide Ford Service Stations.
m
Tour local Ford Distributor or Dealer will be
FOOD MOTOR COMPANY Of AUSTRALIA PR ITD. (INC. M VIC.) REG. OFFICE: GEttONG, VB.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
JOY IN MOSCOW.
Viewing what they see in
Moscow as “the American
crisis,” with its accompanying
Marshall-Plan failure and the
arms-aid delays, and also
Britain’s very serious economic
troubles, Soviet prophets of
Western collapse have been
joyously proclaiming their
dreams already come true.
The West, in “Pravda’s”
phrase, is “mercilessly register-
ing bad weather”; indeed, the
whole capitalist world, in its
view, is out of control and
“moving steadily towards its
end.”
In the sober London “Times”
view the Moscow diagnosis is
not to be merely lightly brushed
aside, because “with all its
crudities and exaggerations, it
sets out in the clearest possible
manner the mistakes which the
Communists hope that the Wes-
tern world will make, the mis-
takes from which the Com-
munists alone could profit.”
It, however, disregards “all the
non-materialist forces” which
can be grouped under “en-
lightened self-interest,” and “it
takes little account of national
consciousness and the common
endeavor of a whole people—
or almost a whole people—in
overcoming a threatened crisis.”
Apparently drawing on the
brilliant analysis of Soviet
policy-outlook made in Ameri-
can “Foreign Affairs” and sum-
marised here at the time, the
London “Times” editorial com-
ment added: —
“According to the Marxist
thesis the capitalist or non-
Marxist world is subject to three
fatal contradictions within it-
self—-the first between labor and
capital; the second among the
capitalist or ‘imperialist’ Powers
themselves as they compete for
markets; and the third between
the ruling nations and the
colonial and dependent peoples.
These contradictions, the Marx-
ists say, must inevitably develop
into strikes and lock-outs tend-
ing to revolutionary conditions,
into imperialist wars, and into
wars of independence which
will bring the liberated peoples
into the Soviet camp,” And
“What makes the Russian
political scientists especially
jubilant is the evidence which
they gather to show that all
three contradictions are now
being aggravated in the Western
world.”
With regard to the first,
“When they look to this coun-
try’s [Britain’s] present difficul-
ties in its oversea payments they
do not take account of the
nation’s war-time losses of over-
sea income and dividends, nor
do they conclude that the nation
as a whole is living above its
means in the endeavor to en-
sure for all members a high
standard of life (far higher than
the Russian, for example). What
they see is little more than the
orthodox clash between classes,
with ‘an approaching crisis of
overproduction which will only
depress still further the position
of the workers.’
“Turning to the second of the
contradictions—the one ‘among
the capitalist Powers themselves’
—they see Americans, fearful of
a slump, intensifying the struggle
against British trade and mount-
ing ‘new offensives of the dollar
against the pound.’ The Mar-
shall Plan is already written off.
‘Not only are United States ex-
pansionists trying to freeze
Britain’s goods out of West
European markets, but by cut-
ting down their purchases in
Western Europe they are also
trying to reduce the output, and
bring about the collapse, of
enterprises in Marshall-Plan
countries as 3 whole.’ British
export *'trade, says' the [Soviet]
magazine New Times,’ is soon
bound to be weakened both by
‘the advanced technical standards
of American trusts’ and by the
cheap labor power of German
firms financed with American
money.
“About the third contradic-
tion between the possessing
Powers and the colonial or
former colonial peoplesr—Mos-
cow finds sufficient evidence in
the struggles across south-east
Asia.”
The £oviet prophets of dis-
aster dd r not, however, expect
any immediate collapse, but
rather a slow, prolonged crisis,
with the Soviet side consequently
getting progressively stronger
and the West becoming more
ready to do business with the
East. Meanwhile, “it must be
assumed that the Communist
parties in Western countries
will do all they can to exploit
the difficulties through strikes of
all kinds”—regarding which ex-
pectation, those countries which
permit it will naturally deserve
what comes to them.
One consolation drawn by the
“Times” from the general Mos-
cow jubilation is that this indi-
cates that the dangers before the
Western countries “are not
primarily military,” In other
words, that the Moscow expec-
tation has been that Soviet aims
may be achieved without war.
Western weakness and dissen-
sion and Communist fifth-
column sabotage assisting.
Polio Epidemic.
Signs might suggest —in
Britain, the U.S., here in Aus-
tralia, and in other countries—
that infantile paralysis (polio-
myelitis) could be the aftermath
scourge of the last world war as
pneumonic influenza was of the
earlier war.
As cables have reported, cases
in England, Scotland and Wales
last month showed an enormous
increase on the pre-war average
a four-weeks’ total of 760
cases, compared with the pre-war
average of 63 cases. For the
same period U.S. cases totalled
9016, compared with a 667
average, and in the present epi-
demic there had already been
some 10,000 earlier cases.
Under the heading “Polio
Facts,” N. Y. “Times” has been
giving out authoritative informa-
tion, such as that 50 to 60 per
cent, of those recognised as
afflicted recover completely, 20
per cent, are left with minor
weaknesses, 15 to 20 per cent,
suffer severe paralysis, and 5 to
10 per cent. die.
Pointing out that “Polio is a
‘mystery’ disease —it is commu-
nicable, but no one knows just
how it is transmitted,” the N.Y.
paper gave details of some re-
actions during a recent week in
the U.S.:
“Fear of polio affected the
habits of the American people.
In New York, Coney Island,
which usually has a million
guests on hot Sundays, last Sun-
day had only 600,000; other
beaches lost 30 to 60 per cent,
in attendance. The Park De-
partment’s 17 public pools,
which usually handle 40,000
swimmers on a hot Saturday or
Sunday, were down to 8500. In
Muncie, Ind., health authorities
—acting on popular demand
closed churches, movies and
bars. When Muncie residents
drove to near-by Anderson for
church or a drink, Anderson
police turned them back at road-
blocks. In a Wisconsin town,
all children were ordered by
authorities to stay home.
Throughout the country a new


Vs
/m
m
m
7,
A
Af* N
V*
/
M>
ICI
Rabbits In their countless millions con-
stitute one of Australia’s most destructive
pests. Good grazing land can be rapidly
turned into barren acreage if these pests
are uncontrolled. Land-owners and sports-
men may make every day’s shooting more
than worthwhile by helping to reduce the
numbers of these vermin.
Eley-Kynoch shotgun cartridges are hard-
hitting and 100% reliable.
81-90.
ELEY-KTNOCH Shotgun CARTRIDGES
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
polio insurance policy, adver-
tised by pictures of a paralysed
child, was selling well.”
To “clear up some of the mis-
conceptions about the disease,”
the U.S. National Foundation
for Infantile Paralysis published
these points: (1) There is no
evidence that swimming at
beaches or pools, in itself, plays
any part in spreading polio ; (2)
such measures as the closing of
schools, parks, churches or other
public places are not likely to
do any good in halting the dis-
ease ; (3) polio is apparently
passed by close physical contact
—not casual contact as on
beaches or streets or in theatres.
Russian-held Germans.
Back in March, 1947, Molo-
tov, pressed to tell the truth
about the number of German
prisoners-of-war still in Russian
hands, eventually gave the figure
as 890,532.
Now a document drafted with
the co-operation of the Red
Cross, the German Social Demo-
crat party, the German Christian
Democrat party and direct wit-
nesses from among German
citizens shows that there are
still more than 2000 camps in
Russia occupied by between
2,000,000 and 2,170,000 German
prisoners.
To May, 1945, the Russians
had taken 3,130,000 German
prisoners; the Red Cross re-
ports that only 960,000 have
been returned to Germany.
A London “Times” corres-
pondent has reported that three
concentration camps still exist
in the Eastern zone —Buchen-
wald, Sachsenhausen and Baut-
zen. “These are occupied by in-
terned prisoners and those con-
demned to penal servitude. Ac-
cording to prisoners returned
from Buchenwald in recent
months the death-rate in the
camp is between six and eight a
day in the sick bay and 12 to 15
dead in the ward for tubercu-
losis.” The report quoted evi-
dence of German women being
forced to work in the uranium-
mines at Aue, Saxony, “where
health conditions are deplor-
able.”
Some day, no doubt, there
will be a grim harvesting from
such dragon’s-teeth sowings.
Jap-War Curiosity.
The younger Fairbanks, who’s
evidently a man of some parts
above the Hollywood sort, is re-
ported in a “United Nations
World” article to have made an
amazing offer during the war
against the Japs.
As related by U.S. Admiral
Ellis M. Zacharias, the then Lt.-
Comdr. Fairbanks submitted a
memorandum to Admiral King
suggesting that (something like
the Hess bid) Allied agents (Fair-
banks one of them) should be
landed from submarines in
Japan, contact the Dowager
Empress, whom Fairbanks knew
personally and well, and whom
he represented as anxious to end
the war, and then organise a
group which could conduct
surrender negotiations under the
Emperor’s authority.
But, writes Admiral Zacharias,
“Mr, Fairbanks’s ingenious pro-
posal, based on his personal
acquaintance with things Jap-
anese, was shipwrecked in the
muddy waters of Washington in-
decision. His plan was dis-
counted as too difficult to
execute, and was shelved even
before submission to the Joint
Chiefs.”
Debunking Roosevelt.
At the end of November, 1943,
Roosevelt, Churchill and Chiang
Kai-shek met in Cairo (the only
‘‘Big Three” Conference the
Chinese Generalissimo attended)
and arranged plans for an
Allied sea-and-land offensive
against the Japanese in Burma in
order to reopen the Burma Road
to China.
Lieut.-General J. W. Stilwell
(“Vinegar Joe”) attended to help
present the Chinese case. Then
Roosevelt and Churchill went off
to the Tehran Conference with
Stalin, and Chiang went home.
Stilwell stayed in Cairo to hear,
as Chiang’s representative, the
results of Tehran.
The Tehran meeting forced a
drastic alteration in the Cairo
plans. Stalin insisted, with
American military agreement, on
invasion of Europe in 1944,
which would mop up most of
the landing-craft and other
material intended for the S.E.
Asia offensive, Roosevelt re-
turned to Cairo to meet Stilwell.
A conference took place on
December 6, 1943; present,
Roosevelt, Harry Hopkins, Stil-
well and X, a fourth American
whose name has not been given in
the following verbatim report of
the conference published in the
just-issued Stilwell Papers :—
F.D.R.: Well, Joe, what do you
think of the bad news?
J.W.S.: I haven’t heard yet how
bad it is.
F.D.R.: We’re in an impasse. I’ve
been stubborn as a mule for four
days, but we can’t get anywhere, and
it won’t do for a conference to end
—Jacksonville (U.S.A.) “Times-Union.”
INJURED INNOCENCE.
that way. The British just won’t do
the operation, and I can’t get them
to agree to it.
J.W.S.: I am interested to know
how this affects our policy in China.
F.D.R.: Well, now, we’ve been
friends with China for a gr-e-e-at
many years. I ascribe a large part of
this feeling to the missionaries. You
know / have a China history. My
grandfather went out there, to
Swatow and Canton, in 1829, and
even went up to Hankow. He did
what was every American’s ambition
in those days —he made a million
dollars, and when he came back he
put it into western railroads. And in
eight years he lost every dollar. Ha!
Ha! Ha! Then in 1856 he went out
again and stayed there aU through
the Civil War, and made another
million. This time he put it into
coalmines, and they didn’t pay a
dividend until two years after he died.
Ha! Ha! Ha!
J.W.S.: I take it that it is our
policy to build China up.
F.D.R.: Yes. * Yes. Build her up.
After this war there will be a great
need of our help. They will want
loans. Madame Chiang and the
G-mo wanted to get a loan now of
a billion dollars, but I told them it
would be difficult to get Congress to
agre© to it. Now, I’m not a financial
expert (!!) but I have a plan to take
fifty or a hundred million dollars
and buy up Chinese paper dollars on
the blackmarket. It wouldn’t take
much (!!) When the Chinese found
out that these notes were being
bought up, they would tend to hold
them and the rate would come down.
We might beat the inflation that way.
And I’d share the profit with the
Chinese Government —I’d put the
notes in escrow and when they were
needed I’d sell them to the Chinese
for what I paid for them.
X.: The effect on the Chinese of
failing to reopen communications
F.D.R.: Yes. Yes. How long do
you think Chiang can last?
J.W.S.: The situation is serious,
and a repetition of last May’s attack
might overturn him.
F.D.R.: Well, then, we should
look for some other man or group
of men, to carry on. V
J.W.S.: They would probably be
looking for us.
F.D.R.: Yes, they would come to
us. They really like us, and just
between ourselves, they don’t like the
British. Now, we haven’t the same
aims as the British out there. For
instance, Hongkong. Now, I have a
plan to make Hongkong a free port:
free to the commerce of all nations—
of the whole world! But let’s raise
the Chinese flag there first, and then
Chiang can the next day make a
grand gesture and make it a free port.
That’s the way to handle that! Same
way in Dairen! I’m sure that Chiang
would be willing to make that a free
port, and goods could come through
Siberia —in bond —without customs
examinations.
X.: What in your opmion caused
the noble attitude of the Russians in
allowing China to have Manchuria?
F.D.R.: Well, I think they con-
sider they’ve got enough as it is. You
can put a hundred million more
people into Siberia. Stalin doesn’t
want any more ground. He’s got
enough. He agreed with me about
Korea and Indo-China. We should
set up commissions to take charge of
those countries for twenty-five years
or so, till we get them on their feet.
Just like the Philippines. I asked
Chiang peint*blank if he wanted
Indo-China, and he said, “Under no
circumstances! ” Just like that
“Under no circumstances.”
J.W.S.: Chiang will have trouble
explaining to his people the Allied
failure to open Burma.
F.D.R.: Yes. Yes. But if we
don’t put on this operation, we can
put more tonnage over the Hump.
Yes, we can get more freight into
China that way.
H.H.: Is this C.N.A.C, a Pan
American subsidiary?
J.W.S.: Forty-nine per cent, is
American, fifty-one per cent, is
Chinese. .....
F.D.R.: Well, that’s all right. The
Chinese can run their airline inside of
China. I have no objection to that.
Now, I would agree to the British,
after the war, running passenger
planes for Australia from England to
New York, letting off passengers for
New York, taking on passengers for
Australia, and then flying to San
Francisco, letting off passengers from
England, and taking on passengers
for Australia. But not to take pas-
sengers on at New York and letting
them off at San Francisco. Oh, no.
No, sk.
J.W.S.: We need guidance on
political policy on China.
F.D.R.: Yes. As I was saying,
the Chinese will want a lot of help
from us —a lot of it. Why, K’ung
one time asked me for a loan of fifty
million dollars for developing trans-
portation and I said to him, “Mr.
K’ung, that’s a lot of money!”
Then I said to him, “What arc you
going to use this money for?” and
he said, “Construction materials,”
and he said, to try and influence me,
“If we get this loan, wc’U buy
those materials right here in the
United States.” And I came right
back at tum and said, “Mr. K’ung,
in your country you have construc-
tion materials already. You have
cement, you have sand, you .have
rock —you have all those materials.”
Then he said, “Yes, but we need
technical help—engineers and other
technicians. We would pay a good
engineer $lOO,OOO a year, and give
him a house and twenty servants.”
And I said, “Mr. K’ung, when I was
Governor of New York State, I had
a superintendent of highway con-
struction named Green —(ever know
Green?) —and he was paid $15,000.
And he was the best road engineer
I ever saw. But he’s dead. But
dos’t pay sloo,ooo—pay 515,000
house, no servants. You dont want
to pay $lOO,OOO. Why, there are
any number of good engineers m the
Army—not the regular service, men
from civil life—and ybu can get them
for $BOOO. They can do that kind
of work. But no exploitation.”
Stooge : The Prime Minister is
here.
F.D.R.; Well, now, there you are,
and remember, you’re ambassadors !
Ha! Ha! Ha! Yes, sir, you’re my
Ambassadors,
End of conference.
Draw your own conclusions.
The most relevant historical
conclusion would seem to be that
if this was Roosevelt at Cairo
and Tehran it is no great won-
der that later Yalta should have
been so sorry a farce.
“Poputchiki.”
It’s Russian (says U.S. educa-
tor Sidney Hook in N. Y.
“Times Supplement”) for
“travellers on the same road,”
whence is derived the term “fel-
low-travellers.”
The word became current in
the Soviet Union after the Bol-
shevik revolution when the
Communists placed a few non-
party sympathisers in posts of
prestige, without power, to give
the impression of popular sup-
port. Within a few years the
term became an epithet of abuse
in the Soviet Union. To be
merely a “fellow - traveller”
meant to be lacking in complete
loyalty to the Soviet and party
regime, and therefore to be sus-
pect. The end of the road for
all “fellow-travellers” who did
not join the Communist party
was exile to a forced-labor camp
or physical liquidation.
At present there are no
“fellow-travellers” in the Soviet
Union. In countries outside the
Soviet Union, and especially in
the democracies, they are, of
course, encouraged and used as
an important part of the Com-
munist system, “absolutely
essential for the strategy of in-
filtration into the commanding
places, such as advisory and
policy-making posts of profes-
sional organisations, trade-
unions, organs of public
opinion and —when possible —
governmental services.”
Dragnet Digest.
Where’s Molotov ? —As far back
as 1946 U.S. Secretary of State
Byrnes, returning from Moscow, cryp-
tically reported: “Mr. Molotov is
having N.K.V.D. [secret police]
trouble.” The well-informed “United
Nations World” recently commented
on current rumors regarding the
Russian bigwig’s fate: “Whatever
the rumors, the fact is that Molotov
was conspicuous by his absence from
such important State functions at
Moscow as the funeral of Georgi
Dimitrov and the Air Show at Telchin
airfield.”
* ♦ • ♦
China Famine. —China’s oldest and
deadliest enemy is not abdicating be-
cause of the Communist successes;
in fact, N. Y. “Times” correspon-
dents there report that famine is
likely to be deadlier still; “conditions
of misery and disruption unsurpassed
in this century” are foreseen. Hence
the U.S. is faced with having to ask
itself “whether it will try to get the
Communists and the Nationalists to
permit the shipment of supplies for
purely relief purposes,” with the cer-
tainty that the Communist side wpuld
try to use such relief for political,
not humanitarian, ends.
* * * *
Published Nazi Documents. —Under
the title From NeuratH to Ribbentrop,
1937-38, the U.S. State Department
has published the first volume, con-
taining 799 documents, of a planned
monumental record made from the
captured archives of the Nazi German
Foreign Office. “It is,” says London
“Times,” “the first drop, so to speak,
distilled by British, French and
American scholars from the 400 tons
of German papers captured at the
end of the war.” The documents in
this volume deal with the relations
between Germany and the othea - lead-
ing Powers and the annexation of
Austria. “The story is accordingly
in large part that of the British and
French efforts to steer Hitler’s policy
into the paths of peace.” A British
edition should soon be available.
* ♦ * *
Bought German “Loyalty.”—Sug-
gesting that continued dismantling of
works and the very belated trials of
German generals are discouraging, in
Churchill’s words, “the German
movement towards Western civilisa-
tion and Western ideas,” London
“Times” declares there is far too
much complacency regarding the
attaching of Germany to the West;
“At present the ‘loyalty’ of the people
in Western Germany is very largely
being bought by American dollars;
it depends on maintaining a far
higher standard of living in Western
than in Eastern Germany, There are,
no doubt, many Germans who sin-
cerely believe in democracy and
voluntarily take their stand on the
side of the West, but there is little
confidence that they could hold their
own if there was a serious economic
depression or some sudden shift in
political power.”
* • * *
Brighter Soldiering. —A letter to
London “Times” from America,
apparently written by an Englishman
there, is hereby directed to the Aus-
tralian Army Minister, who doesn’t
seem to have thought of such attrac-
tions, yet: “Several American friends
of mine have joined the reserve of
officers of the local United States
Army division. The Army authori-
ties here have made it possible for
these men to take their families with
them to the training centre when they
report for their week-end of training
each month. For a nominal charge
family accommodation is provided, a
nursery is staffed to take care of the
children, and transport is available
to golf clubs, livery stables, etc. In
addition to this, the husbands are
free on Saturday nights, when a
dance is held. My friends tell me
that the scheme has proved such a
success that the wives of California
are doing all the recruiting that is
necessary.”


SINCE 1847
j
MAKERS
OF GOOD WINE
OR MORE THAN
A CENTURY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Flag-lieutenant to three Admirals
(Evans of the Broke, Rear-Admirals
Custance and Grace), signals specialist and
destroyer captain. Commander Neil Mac-
kinnon goes from cruiser Australia, where
he was executive officer (2/i.c.), to a chair
in Navy Office, where he’ll be Director
of Naval Intelligence. He drove destroyer
Warramunga for seven hectic months of
the Pacific war, but his most prideful
command probably was the battle-strained
old Stuart of Matapan, which he cap-
tained in 1943.
A stranded whale, possibly “Labor,” is
at present sharing Long Jetty air with the
N.S.W. Liberal team encamped for their
pre-election training. Liberals’ chief
second is John Garrick. He has seen
another place named Long Jetty (Pasir-
pango) at Singapore docks ; there he was
in a working party of Digger prisoners
under the Nip. Before then Changi, and
the Bicycle Camp at Batavia, and before
that he was on Timor, O.C. of the 18th
Anti-tank Battery (Sparrow Force) under
Lt.-Col. Leggett. In Thailand Garrick
had the Digger-delectable experience of
not only seeing but toiling with a work-
ing party composed entirely of officers. At
the end he wound up on Mountbatten’s
R.A.P.W.I. staff, a dabster at interpreting
Japanese. He can also handle Malay,
Urdu, most of the conventional langu-
ages, and even admits to a little Russian.
Garrick, now permanent head of N.S.W.
Liberal administration, is responsible for
running campaigns, arranging elections,
getting candidates into Parliament and
keeping them there. He’s 31.
After nearly 45 years of sweeping ships
safely up and down the N.S.W. coast on
his revolving light beams, J. H. Fisher,
senior lightkeeper of the Commonwealth
Lighthouse Service, retired last week.
Fisher’s first light was Sugarloaf Point
(Seal Rocks), then a feeble twinkle of
kerosene-lamp; now an intense white
beam cuts a warning swathe over any-
thing up to 20 miles of ocean. Fisher
kept his last watch at Norah Head; an
age limit brings him ashore.
J. Walne, the ex-A.I.F. man who led
the famous Ferret Force of Dyaks,
Muruts, Dusuns and Bajaus against the
Communist guerrillas in Malaya and beat
them at their own game, landed in Mel-
bourne the other day from North
Borneo. Discharged a captain, he led
his semi-savage John Hops through
Malaya’s jungle for six months, living off
the country. He is now Assistant Super-
intendent of Police in that British colony
from which the ex-headhunters were re-
cruited.
Senior lecturer of philosophy at Sydney
University, John Passmore crosses to
MX. early next year to fill the Chair of
Philosophy at Otago University. He
went to the philosophy tutorship in
Sydney with the Jones Medal and Walter
Beavis Prize for the Teachers’ College’s
most distinguished graduate. In 1940 a
special research grant took him to Eng-
land, to be associated with the philo-
sophic quidnuncs of Cambridge and
Oxford, and help in tutoring officers of
the Army educational services.
a ft £r 48 years of music, Claude
Wallis, secretary of Allan’s, Melbourne.
He joined that musical beehive in 1902,
and few men in Melbourne knew more
artists, critics and visiting virtuosi. As
secretary of the Victorian Music Teach-
ers’ Association and member of the
Advisory Board of Melbourne Univer-
sity he helped several generations of
singers and instrumentalists along the
thorny highway to the concert platform.
In 1942 he married singer Thea Phillips.
He retires to Warrandyte, the Victorian
art Parnassus.
The Inky Way once knew Israel’s first
Consul-General to Australia, Harry Levin,
who landed recently in Melbourne.
S African-born, he was a cub reporter in
Jo’burg 20 years ago when he decided
to holiday in the Holy Land, and liked
it so well he stayed there. For years he
was Middle East correspondent for
London “Daily Herald,” stepping from
that into the diplomatic service when the
Chosen became a nation.
Collected a delayed-action Netherlands
Flying Cross, K. Prowd, of Brisbane, who
was a w.o. with a special R.A.F. saboteur
squadron flying spies and dislocators into
occupied Holland and adjoining coun-
tries. Altogether he flew 18 successful
sorties at zero altitude into Europe with
his special cargo, and on the 19th, in a
Stirling bomber in 1944, ran into a shat-
tering burst of flak over Arnhem. His
crew took to silk, but three of the six
were shot dead on the way down. Prowd
spent the rest of the war in prison camp.
Now an accountant, he is, so far as is
known, the first Bananalander to receive
this decoration.
Charles Davidson, M.H.R. for Capri-
cornia, who will stand as C.P. man for
Dawson in the Federal elections, cer-
tainly knows the cocky’s problems. He
left Cairns and Townsville Grammar
schools to jackeroo on Kangaroo Hills
station, over the range from Ingham.
In 1916, then 18, he sailed with the old
42nd Battalion, and the next year was
commissioned in France. A wound
brought him home. For four years he
dairyfarmed on the Atherton Tableland
before taking up a sugarfarm at Car-
mila, south of Mackay, and since 1927
he has been associated with the Queens-
land Canegrowers’ Association. World
War II found him in the 42nd Militia
Battalion, with, in 1942, promotion to
lieut.-colonel in command. After fighting
at Milne Bay he took his crowd up to
Tambu Bay for the attack on Salamaua,
where they were first in. Davidson col-
lected 0.8. E. and two “mentions,” and
left his name on Charlie Hill and
Davidson Ridge.
Here summed up by Lambart, Queens-
land Chief Justice Neal Macrossan is
the second member of his family to hold
that post. A Rhodes Scholar from
Nudgee College, he took prizes in Latin
and Greek, and considers an acquaint-
ance with the flexibility of Greek a price-
less aid to clear thinking and writing.
After an honors course in Jurisprudence
at Oxford he landed back in Brisbane to
work in the Crown Law Office and swot
up the Queensland brand of law. Admitted
to the Bar in 1912, he started general
legal practice in 1930, became a brilliant
advocate and a formidable cross-examiner
(one of his remembered briefs Was appear-
ing for ex-Premier McCormack in the
Mungana case in 1931) and, in 1940, on
the death of his brother (then Chief
Justice), he was made a Supreme Court
Judge. Two days later he was appointed
Senior Puisne Judge and, in 1946, Chief
Justice. The name Macrossan is famed
in Queensland politics and law; the
father was a State Cabinet Minister and
pioneer of Federation, and the family
have perpetuated his memory with the
Macrossan Lectures. Although he looks
formidable enough in his wig, the Chief
Justice, interviewed in the less awesome
privacy of his Chambers, revealed him-
self an impeccably dressed person of mild
NEAL MACROSSAN.
of the Queensland clan.
manner, with an extra-judicial sense of
humor. He mentioned having gone to
school with The Bulletin’s Malcolm
Ellis, whom he last saw when Ellis was
in Brisbane to give his Macrossan lecture
on Lachlan Macquarie.
Speaking one’s mind can’t be so harm-
ful —after his recent vitriolic attack on
Ballarat’s centenary proposals anent the
glorification of the mining industry,
Nathan Spielvogel has been re-elected
president of the Ballarat Historical Society
for the sixteenth time. He started the
thing and nobody knows more about the
city’s richest and murkiest associations.
“Friday Island”; Sydney ear, throat
and nose surgery lost one of its most
skilful practitioners when Queenslander
Bobby Godsall passed on this month.
Wizard finger-skili made his name, and
he kept up with the latest methods by
regular world-touring. His fingers were
expert in other directions. Once (after a
child had been sent to America for re-
moval of a foreign body from its lung)
an acquaintance remarked on the won-
derful results US. doctors achieved with
the Chevalier Jackson instrument, and
asked: “Don’t you use it here?” “No,”
grinned Bobby, “only this sort” ; and pro-
duced his own improved model of the
Jackson tool, which he’d just received
from the toolmakers.
It speaks something for a Scot’s love
of the soil that he should pay his own
two-year expenses looking over Australia
to ken for himself the damage being done
by erosion. Such is the case of Sir
William Jenkins, here presented by Mc-
Beath. Medallist in agricultural chemistry
and bacteriology of Edinburgh University,
S’William served throughout World War
I, and in 1920 joined the Indian Agri-
cultural Service, to wrestle for half a
century with the problem of soil-denuda-
tion and eventually to save huge areas of
Hindustan’s topdressing from lifting sea-
SIR WILLIAM JENKINS, soil-saver.
wards. In 1937 he was awarded the
C.I.E. for his work in Sind. The con-
version of over 4,000,000 acres of India’s
desert into a lush cotton, wheat and millet
garden brought him a knighthood in 1945.
He retired a year later as Agricultural
Commissioner, Bombay. From personal
observation Sir William is convinced that
soil erosion here is reaching proportions
that could threaten the stability of Aus-
tralia’s agriculture—but not so seriously
as to prevent his settling here with hi's
wife.
“C.Q.”; Durham University’s Psychi-
atry Professor Alexander Kennedy was
concerned with more than the practical
side of parachute-training psychology
(B. 7/9/’49). He investigated, as well,
the psychology of guerrilla warfare, and
organised medical missions for under-
ground forces inside the German lines.
It required toughness, and the professor
is certainly no soft violet of the study.
He was the British Universities’ heavy-
weight boxing champion and a member
of the British Olympic bruisers’ team
before he graduated in the psychology
business. One of his post-war jobs was
questioning Schacht, Speer and other
Nazis as senior scientific adviser to the
Anglo-American organisation for obtain-
ing scientific information from the
Germans. He is in Melbourne to give
the State badly-needed advice on its
mental institutions and to lecture for the
Australian Psychiatric Association,
“Macnell’s” rating:
Great assets of Lt.-Cdr. John Eastman,
characterised here by Dubois, are his quiet
steadfastness, a genuine belief in the homily
about the shoeless man who met another with
no feet, and an uncommonly rich store of
reminiscence. Blind since being a p.-0.-w. in
JOHN EASTMAN, submariner.
Jap hands in Hong Kong finished the damaging
work of a bomb that blew him some 40ft.
through the island’s dockyard, Eastman joined
the Royal Navy long before that—in 1909
and served through the Kaiser’s war in sub-
marines, three years of it in the Baltic. There,
as the fore-end torpedoman in submarine EB,
he pushed down the firing-ball that shot a
torpedo into the vitals of German cruiser Prinz
Adelbert. When the Japs broke loose he was
instructing in Hong Kong, had been round the
world four times, and had served on most of
the R.N.’s far-flung stations, from S. Africa
to Jamaica. Back on active service, he laid
minefields round Hong Kong before taking on
the lieutenancy of its dockyard. He was laid
up with bomb-caused paralysis of both legs
when the Japs caught him; malaria and mal-
nutrition did the rest. But sailors are an adapt-
able breed, and not long before Dubois and
scribe called, Eastman had finished painting his
kitchen. Cooking with a pressure-cooker and
his Braille watch he accounts a minor achieve-
ment. The judges of the last Sydney R.A.S.
rug-making competition thought his work good
enough, amongst that of normal-sighted
entrants from all over the State, to rate second
prize.
Passed on in Adelaide, H. T. M. Ang-
win, who was a sergeant with the First
Field Engineers in 1914 and, at the end,
South Australia’s Engineer-in-Chief and
Electricity Trust chairman. He began his
36 years’ engineering with graduation
from Adelaide University in 1910, and
was Angas Engineering scholar in 1912.
From then on he raised memorials to
his ability throughout the State—the
Mount Bold ' reservoir, the Morgan-
Whyalla pipeline and the Murray bar-
rages are a few—and 'in World War II
completed a big defence project which,
with his other achievements, brought him
a C.M.G. It wasn’t all work—he had
played senior football and cricket for
West Torrens,; his brother, W. B. Angwin,
who died in 1943, was a champion
sprinter and inter-State footballer.
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, Marion Miller Kspwles,
M.8.E., whose children’s books and poems
were well known to a former generation, both
overseas and in Australia. During 40 years of
journalistic work she published several volumes
of verse, including Songs From the Hills and
Fronds From the Blacks' Spur; among her
children’s books were Meg of the Minadong
and Pierce O’Grady’s Daughter.
At Christchurch (M.L.), F. T. Evans, school-
inspector and one of the selectors of the
original All-Black football team, which toured
England in 1905. A great Rugger himself in
the ’eighties, he represented Canterbury and
was a member of the South Island team that
played against Stoddart’s lot.
At 59, in Melbourne, R. R. Pugh, g.-m. of
C.O.R, , Born in Yorkshire, he was formerly
Treasurer and Collector of Customs at Tulagi,
in the Solomons.
In Dunedin (M.L.), at 65, Max Scherek,
whose father, Benno Scherek, was a leading
musical light in M.L, The son went to Mel-
bourne at 16, and eventually travelled in
Europe and Australia as a member of the
Amy Murphy, Philip Newbury and Percy
Grainger combinations.
At Horsham (Vic.), at 80, Charles Stephens,
who, as chief collector, passed the plate round
at St. Paul’s Cathedral, Melbourne, for 34
years. It was an honorary occupation. He
was a potter by profession.
In Melbourne, at 66, William Alexander
Henderson, D. 5.0., architect and lieutenant-
colonel in command of the old Ist Pioneer
Battalion, and, in World War I, brigadier chief
engineer of the 2nd Australian Army. He was
assistant chief architect of the State Savings
Bank of Victoria.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
Rina Mariosa made a very appealing
heroine in the Grand Opera Co.’s presen-
tation of “Lucia Di Lammermoor,” and
the gown she wore —of heavy white satin
over an underskirt of pale-blue satin—
and her bridal outfit of lustrous satin
were cut on lines which have found their
way into modem fashions. Among smart
opera-lovers were Mrs. Hylton Dale, in
mauve and silver lame ; Strella Wilson,
her crepes in powder-blue, her matching
jacket gold-embroidered; Mrs. Bowen
Pain, whose floral taffeta gown was
covered with a brown ermine wrap; Mrs.
Aubrey Gibson, floral satins her choice;
Mrs. Frank Lee, who mixed cyclamen and
silver lamd effectively; Mrs. T. Allan
McKay, her pastel-blue gown topped with
white Arctic fur ; Mrs. Ray Shatin, whose
butterfly-wing-taffeta gown had a narrow
black velvet stripe worked into the
material; Linda Phillips, black her gown
and larnd coat. Rina Malatrasi, petite
and dainty, wore a stranded white mink
stole over her black gown, whilst
Germana Di Giulio, who sat with her,
was a striking figure in black satin and
silver foxes, A grey-fox wrap and muff
highlighted the midnight-blue velvet gown
worn by Mrs. Frank Tait.
Candles set in empty champagne
bottles, Parisian street-lamps and waiters
and orchestra dressed as apaches were
features of A Night in Paris held at
Claridge’s. Adding an authentic note to
the party were the French mannequins.
Dominique danced in a glorious white
satin gown, the bodice encrusted with
pearl embroideries; Denise was in a
swirling ballerina frock of grey hailspot
muslin; Colette combined white and
black taffeta in a frock which bared one
shoulder. Gwen Wilkinson and Robin
Stanton wore jeune fille frocks, the
former’s of pale-blue embroidered tulle
and Robin’s of white waffle-cloth. Among
the dancers were the Bruce Meads, she
wearing a filmy gown of pastel-pink
chiffon. Mrs. Phillip Dare wore a strik-
ing gown of black sewn with narrow
bands of white linen. Mrs. Harold Holt’s
strapless white slipper-satin gown had a
bodice highlighted with pearl and sequin
embroideries. Mrs. Walter Ebstein’s long-
sleeved white crepe romaine gown had
the front of the bodice trimmed with gold
bead trimming. Mrs. Frank Gillespie
pinned two pink orchids in the shoulder
of her slim black velvet gown. Mrs.
Charles Lane’s gown was of shocking-pink
moire taffeta.
When Joan Haslam, who was formerly
a member of the Victorian Symphony
Orchestra, was married at Christ Church,
South Yarra, she wore a simple gown of
white-figured organdie ; her tulle veil had
a frilled edge, was appliqudd with true-
lover’s knots, and was held in place with
a coronet of white hyacinths. Her
bouquet was of hyacinths and gardenias.
The bride, who is the only daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. A. J. Haslam, of Richmond,
was attended by Shirley Cousland as
bridesmaid and Joy Little as flower-girl.
They carried posies of pink carnations
and blue hyacinths, and wore frocks of
pale-blue-figured organdie. The bride-
groom, who is the only son of Mr. and
Mrs. H. Loft, of Parkville, had Albert
James as his best man. Reception was at
Harbury, South Yarra.
A preview of “Passport to Pimlico,” an
amusing British film, was the latest func-
tion in the long list to raise money for
the public ward which is to be built at the
Mercy Hospital. Mrs. Harry Furnell
headed the committee as president, and
Mrs. Arthur Joyce was the hon. organiser.
Mrs. Furnell, who was in midnight-blue
crepes, which had metallic trimming at
the sleeves and low neckline, received
the Lieutenant-Governor, Sir Edmund
Herring, and Lady Herring, and was
assisted by Mrs. Joyce, whose formal
gown was of shrimp-pink crepe. Also in
the official party were the Premier and
Mrs. Hollway, the Lady Mayoress, Mrs.
J. S. Disney, whose hip-length jacket *of
white wool with embroideries on the
sleeves covered a bronze-green gown, the
Attorney-General, Trevor Oldham, and
Mrs. Oldham —her soft-green velvet gown
was covered by a mink jacket—P. L.
Coleman and his wife, whose gown of
black velvet had a yoke of pale-pink
georgette heavily embroidered in pearls
and sequins, and Mr. and Mrs, F. J.
O’Collins, the latter adding to her gown
of heavy white satin a black Chantilly-
lace stole. With her lieut.-general
husband was Mrs. Clowes in a powder-
blue crepe gown under a brown ermine
coat. Notable was the white and gold
lamd bolero which Mrs. H. Holmberg
wore over a black velvet gown. Mrs.
Jim Peters, whose father, F. J. O’Collins,
generously donated the Astor Theatre for
the function, wore a pastel-blue crepe
gown the bodice of which was massed
with gold embroidery. Multicolored
sequins trimmed the powder-blue jacket
which Mrs. W. Scarfe allied with her
black skirt.
A cocktail-party followed by a dinner-
dance was held to celebrate the engage-
ment of Marigold Baillieu, younger
daughter of Mrs. Sidney B. Mycr, of
Toorak, and the late Sidney B. Myer, to
Ross, elder son of Mrs. Edgar Shelmer-
dine, also of Toorak, and the late Edgar
Shelmerdine. Marigold, who is an old
St Catherine’s girl, is doing Arts at the
Uni. Mrs. Sidney B. Myer was the
hostess. Red flowers repeated the glowing
colors of the rubies in Marigold’s engage-
ment-ring ; they were also worn by Mari-
gold at the waistline of her olive-green
taffeta ballerina frock.
Shorn of all formality, one of the meet-
ings held last week ended in a party after
some quick-fire planning had shown ex-
cellent results. It couldn’t fail, for in-
vitations sent out from Mrs. L. R.
Buxton, Peter Isaacson and Dick Linton
read: “Come and have a beer and sand-
wich and hear something interesting.”
Everybody turned up, to discover that
plans were in the air for a Thank You
Britain Ball organised by the British
Memorial Fund. Mrs. Buxton was
elected president of the ball committee.
Mrs. Peter Condon, smart in a blue
peplumed frock, Anne Bailey, Anne Mc-
Intyre —at whose home the affair was
held—Dick Linton, lan Miller and Colin
Clarke were elected as ticket secretaries,
with Hugh Syme and Geoff Cohen as
hon, treasurers. Kathleen Lascelles and
Mrs. Hugh Syme came into the picture
as organising secretaries. Mesdames lan
Miller, Dick Noone, Lindsay Biggins,
Iris Clarke and Barbara Robinson were
given the job of decorating the St. Kilda
Town Hall. Well-known mannequin
Gwenda Masters promised to stage a
fashion show on the night of the ball.
This is set down for November 10 and
tickets are one guinea each. Sir Dallas
and Lady Brooks and their daughter will
be present.
This Broothorn study is of Mrs. Bowen
Allen, an energetic member of the Vic-
torian League and secretary of the com-
mittee organising the League’s Empire
Ball, to be held under vice-regal patronage
on October 25 at St. Kilda Town Hall.
Mrs. Bowen Allen was for some time
chairman of the League’s Young Con-
tingent, and she is also keenly interested
in the National Theatre Movement and
in music. She and her husband, Dr.
Bowen Allen, are also to be seen at most
of the big racing carnivals.
The many attractive hats presented by
young Joan Cain at her first Parade, held
at the Oriental, were notable for their
excellent workmanship and simplicity of
line and trimmings. Among the after-
noon hats there were variety of line and
charming color combinations. There
were bonnet shapes and brims which
rolled off the face, well down on one
side. There were flowers, veiling and
feathers to choose from, and one flatter-
ing hat for late-afternoon wear showed
a wide brim, fashioned of black velvet,
its only trimming a sweeping black
ostrich-feather. There were delightful
creations for the cocktail-hour ; a bronze-
green, satin-draped hat glistened with
sequins, a shirred Parma-violet cap was
trimmed with emerald-green sequins,
whilst an original note was the match-
ing sequins, massed to form ear-
caps. A black velvet pixie-cap had the
same ear-treatment, but silver lame was
used. Joan has plenty of imagination,
an attribute she made good use of in a
Patou-pink grosgrain helmet, with a black
tulle beaded mask for a flattering
finish.
From Sydney
Spring came to Sydney last week,
light-hearted with breeze and sun, and
the ruffling days wore (for two
days) the sky like a blue feather.
On the waters of the harbor which
mirrored the puffs of cloud, and
now and again a darting plane, Cremorne
stretched like a dragon lazy in the hot
sun. Along suburban streets camphor-
laurels tossed the tender green of their
young leaves. The stone bastion of Fort
Denison gazed over Port Jackson, hoary
and benign. It was hard to believe that
once it was the grim and dreaded Pinch-
gut of our convict settlers. Massed rosy
and white, the azaleas breathed allure in
the Botanic Gardens, and out at Went-
worth House the curtain of wistaria
trembled to the romance of spring. In
the Domain and Hyde Park the grass was
green, the trees flung welcome shade,
while near by the spire of St. James’s, the
towers of St. Mary’s seemed to keep guard
over the city.
Last Saturday night’s big success was
the Town and Country Ball, now a
yearly fixture, at Romano’s, in aid of
the “Smith Family.” The attractive
subject of this Dorothy Welding picture,
Mrs. John Bray, was president of the
committee, and was a decoration in her-
self with her peplumed and spreading
blue and silver brocades.
Everybody who went to this year’s
Red Cross Flower Festival went
bush. The tent where the Australian
wildfiowers were shown was packed
and emptied many times before
his Excellency Lieut.-General John
Northcott made the opening speech.
From the west, and the south and
the north, came these delicate, shy
beauties. Keeping guard, the waratahs
stood straight and tall like brave soldiers.
The setting for the orchid display was
admired, and the orchids were superb and
varied. The Harry Moxham lady, who
was president of the International section,
was busied about this exhibit, too.
Young girls strolled about the formal
gardens displaying the correct clothes for
digging, raking and hosing on the family
estate. It probably does make a cater-
pillar feel better to know that the hand
that slew him was suitably gloved for the
occasion. And what would Jimmy
Durante have to say to that?
There wasn’t a blade of grass in the
Upper Domain that wasn’t under human
foot by opening-speech time. The
Governor had come down from Hill
View, Sutton Forest, to speed the day.
Later there was a tea-party, the host
being the president of the Flower
Festival committee, knight Charles
Bickerton Blackburn. Notables were
president of the Red Cross, J. R.
Clack, and Mrs. Clack, Sydney’s
Mayoress Mrs. O’Dea. Ladies selling
doughnuts under the keen eye of Uncle
Sam, and under a gold-dusted eagle, in-
cluded Mrs. Eva Hayes, clutching a long
letter from daughter Evie, who had been
having tea at Government House, Maori-
iand, with the vice-regal Freybergs.
As usual, the V.As. did a splendid job.
In charge of Mrs. Persia Porter, honorary
director of V.A.Ds. in this State, they
sold directories, they ran a first-aid post,
they served tea from mobile canteens and
acted as usherettes in the floral
theatrette, films for which had been
obtained by Don Service. The directories
were designed by Roy Jenkins, The
cover was from a painting by E. Mar-
garet Stones, a Melbourne artist.
Compliments are still being paid to the
Consul-General Hedinger couple on the
impressive Switzerland marquee in the
International section of the Red Cross
flower festival. On a dais amid massed
scarlet hippeastrums was a high lectern
on which a large book* was wide-open.
Here, beautifully illuminated and printed,
was the story of the origin of Red Cross.
Above the book hung two immense
taffeta flags, the one carrying a white
cross on a red ground (Switzerland’s
flag), the other blazoned with the red
cross on a white ground, carrying its
message of mercy to all nations.
The grace and charm and sparkle that
had made her one of Sydney’s belles of
the early part of this century, and a
brain alive to every modern trend, were
allied in Mrs. T. H. Kelly—“ Mrs. Bertie”
to her friends. When news of her death
was flashed over the air and in the papers
last Thursday one felt that the city had
lost something of the bouquet of more
gracious and spacious days. Stories of
Mrs. Kelly’s wit are numerous ; so are
stories of her kindness among those who
needed help. With her husband, the late
T. H. Kelly, she travelled widely, and,
both being interested in the arts, their
home at Darling Point held treasures
from many lands. Before her marriage
she had already won fame as an actress.
She was tireless in her work for patriotic
and charitable causes. She was the
author of several novels. She was hand-
some and big-hearted, and she had been
blessed with the gift of laughter. Those
who saw her at her 75th birthday party
early this year will retain a vivid memory
of her upright figure in the sweeping frock
of pink fafonne.
The attendant on the gate at the Royal
Sydney Yacht Squadron claimed, last
Saturday afternoon, that never for 24
years had the R.S.Y.S. had a wet day for
the opening of the sailing season. But
Saturday made up for it. One cloud
after another seemed to burst on tlje
enthusiasts who commenced to gather
at the club from lunch-time onwards.
Visitors mustered on the verandahs and
the balconies and viewed the races
through binoculars, varied with a Nelson-
like attitude at the telescope. A nice
innovation for a wet day was that drinks
were served from one end of the verandah
just outside the dining-room doors.
Mrs, Don Taylor, whose husband’s
name was so long associated with sailing,
brought a family party. The Goddards
were there, the David Garments and the
FitzHardinges. Mrs. H. M. White, presi-
dent of the associates, wore smart grey
tailorings and a small black toque. Ship-
ping man H. J. Brady was there, but his
wife, owing to the prevailing cold, missed
her first opening in years. Another
absentee was the wife of Admiral Moore.
Smiling in spite of the weather were
Major Manley and his pretty wife.
R.S.Y.S. commodore James March
Hardie and Mrs. Hardie spread a tea-
party for the commodores of other
squadrons and their wives. Brave soles
crossed a strip of sodden grass and stood
on soggy lawn, though it was under a
marquee, for the tea-drinking. English
visitor Kathleen Danetree viewed the
scene with friend Frances Scully. Mrs.
Alexis Albert’s poinsettia-red topcoat
made bright passage. She was with her
husband and her father-in-law, Mr. Frank
Albert. The Max Murrays- were late-
arrivals.
The John Kaufmans, of Mt, Eliza, Vic-
toria, made brief stay in Sydney, and then
made for the mountain-tops. The Car-
rington, Katoomba, will be their head-
quarters for a few weeks. Then Sydney
will see them again.
The next time the Macquarie-street
specialist extracts a guinea from your
banking account you can console your-
self with the vision of its becoming a
gold-injection necessary for the life of
some gorgeous orchid. The Girl in the
Flat Opposite brooded over this hs she
strolled, dazed with beauty, along the
avenues of the orchid show in the Town
Hall. Some of the loveliest blooms were
being exhibited by well-known doctors.
From the doors just inside the foyer
of the main hall to the base of the plat-
form great sprays of orchids were massed
—palely-green, lilacy-pink, creamy, red
and cinnamon-brown. In dreamy aloof-
ness they ignored the gaze of the admiring
thousands who visited the N.S.W. orchid
festival. Mrs. E. Tant, of Hurlstone Park,
exhibited a super pink-lipped, palely-
green cymbidium for which she carried
off the prize in the most decorative
cymbidium class. It is a pleasing thought
in this week of the devaluing of sterling
that the lovely orchid, though “it toils
not, neither does it spin,” is capable of
earning quite a few dollars in U.S.
markets for this land of ours.
Keen opera-lovers Mrs. Bianchi and
pretty daughter Joyce sailed off in the
Surriento bound for the home of opera.
First they will visit Rome, then they go
to the North of Italy. After that Joyce
will attend lectures at the famed univer-
sity of Lausanne. London and Paris will
follow, then Rome again. Among Joyce’s
most treasured possessions is the letter
of introduction to all the Sacred Heart
convents throughout Europe and Eng-
land. Well-known travellers out-
ward-bound in Chitral are the John D.
Wilkinsons, of Kirribilli. Mr. Wilkinson
and his wife are taking a jaunt to Eng-
land. In between they will holiday with
daughter Mrs, Eric Barker, now living
in Bombay.


HUNTER
CIGARETTES
/
/
%
m
m
4
*4
M
C o*
>a:
A
fyp.
HunW
'WtmiMau0 a
.... and again smoke
a favoured blend
29 for 20
EVERYWHERE
MAURICE NEWSTEAD PTY. LTD. b„ casuereaoh STREET, SYDNEY
NENQ^UheaSE
Pass Examinations.
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Send stamp for booklet.
Rev. W. Rowlands,
12 Younger Grove,
Caulfield, S.E.B, Victoria.
Cigarette Lighter Service
We stock spare parts for every well-
known make of Cigarette Lighter
Send your defective lighter to us.
Repairs returned post free to any
address in the Commonwealth.
ROLLS RAZOR
CO. OF AUST. PTY., LTD.,
8a Castlereagh St., Sydney. BW 2038
CRIME does not pay
\
m
Keep your
engine clean
A clean engine gives perfect
lubrication, improved perform-
ance, longer engine life, quicker
starting and complete protection
at all speeds and temperatures.
with
VACUUM
ooAiinr
MOOUCI
Mobiloil
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD.
M 405
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND — In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM HUGHIE WILKINSON
otherwise known as HUGH WILLIAM
WILKINSON formerly of Julia Street
Fortitude Valley Brisbane in the State
of Queensland but whose present where-
abouts are unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that
an action has been commenced against
you in the Supreme Court of Queensland
at Brisbane by Writ of Summons No. 787
of 1949 by your wife ELVA GWENDO-
LINE WILKINSON in which she claims
a dissolution of her marriage with you
and by her petition filed herein she
alleges that you deserted her without
cause on the twenty-eighth day of January
1937 and that you have since continu-
ously deserted her without cause for a
period of three years and upwards and it
has been ordered that service of the said
writ and petition upon you be effected
by publishing a notice of the issuing of
the said writ and of the filing of the said
petition (to be settled by the Registrar)
once in the “Bulletin” published at Syd-
ney in the State of New South Wales and
once in the “North Queensland Register”
published at Townsville in the State of
Queensland and it has been further ordered
that service of the said petition and writ
of summons upon you shall be deemed to
have been effected at the expiration of
thirty days from the publication of the
last of such notice If you desire to de-
fend this action you must within sixty
days from the date of the publication of
the last of the said notice as aforesaid
enter an appearance in the Registry of
the Supreme Court of Queensland at Bris-
bane and in default of your so doing the
Plaintiff may by leave of the Court or of
a Judge proceed therein and judgment
may be given in your absence. DATED
this first day of September, 1949. — (1.5.)
P. J. RUSSELL, Second Deputy Registrar.
S. W. TYNAN, Solicitor for the Plaintiff,
Brisbane Permanent Bank Building, 113-
115 Queen Street, Brisbane.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO HAROLD EDMUND WALKER late of
113 Bums Bay Road Lane Cove. —TAKE
NOTICE that BRENDA IRELAND
WALKER has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1001 of 1949 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court Syd-
ney by the 2nd December 1949 and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge
from T. G. RIDGEWAY, Solicitor, Room
212, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.—(l.s.) J-
DOUGHAN, Registrar in Divorce.
THE SERVICE MAN
Mr. Riordan's Defence.
“Ek Dum”: Mr. Riordan,
Minister for the Navy, chose the
day of the arrival of Rear-
Admiral Eccles, who was last
here as Flag-Captain to Vice-
Admiral Vian and captain of the
aircraft-carrier Indomitable dur-
ing the war, to attack the
“vicious” Press which has been
seeking to belittle his Navy.
As Mr. Riordan follows the
fashion of the modern “Labor”
party in using the vocabulary of
the Communists, the implications
of the word “vicious” may be
discounted. Anyone who criti-
cises Messrs. Sharkey and
Riordan is “vicious,” even if a
Sunday schoolteacher with the
virtues of St. Christopher.
The Press which criticised
some aspects of the Navy was
not, of course, attacking the
R.A.N. It was attacking Mr.
Riordan and his colleagues for
their ineptitude, squandering and
general laxity, and though all
these things are to be expected
when a Government whose
members have fought against de-
fence in all forms for years is
suddenly handed the job of im-
plementing defence.
Mr. Riordan side-stepped dis-
cussion on the subjects which
really need discussion —the go-
slow on the building of de-
stroyers, the undermanning of
the R.A.N., the discourage-
ment of everything which
makes for efficient discipline in
the forces, and a few other
features on which thorough de-
bate is needed.
He concentrated on the air-
craft-carrier Sydney, which, de-
spite all his assurances, is obso-
lescent and of debatable utility,
since, as Rear-Admiral Eccles
has admitted, it cannot raise
speed sufficient to get its aircraft
off in a dead calm. In that re-
spect it is not completely unique,
but it seems possible that it
was because of the realised weak-
nesses of the ship that her build-
ing was held up half-way
through. Then she and her
sister, now under reconstruction,
were sold to the Australian Gov-
ernment.
The real question is whether at
that stage, when there were so
many problems to be settled in
relation to post-war armament
and tactics arising from the de-
velopment of radar and new
weapons and machinery and of
long-range aircraft, the Austra-
lian Government should have
committed itself to the expendi-
tures involved in the purchases
of two large vessels about which
there is considerable debate, and
which scarcely have the pace to
outrange a modern submarine —
the submarine being the type of
naval ship which is likely to de-
cide the next naval war,
Mr. Riordan in defence says
that the Sydney is “the latest
vessel of her type.” So was the
Ark in its day, but it was never
duplicated.
It is doubtful whether any
country will build more vessels
of the Sydney type after the two
or three which have been passed
out of the Royal Navy to Canada
and Australia have been com-
pleted and disposed of. They are
useful as training units, but
whether expense is worth-while
when so much else needs to be
done is another matter, and
whether the Government would
not have done better to acquire
other types is a question which
might have been reserved for a
future date.
The Admiralty is not rushing
into production of aircraft-
carriers.
The Real Atom-Bomb.
“Ek Dum”; The announce-
ment by President Truman that
an explosion of an atom-bomb
in Russia has been detected has
started a silly-season campaign.
If it were accompanied by a
settling of public opinion along
practical lines in favor of uni-
versal defence training it would
be useful. But to most papers
the bomb is just another sensa-
tion to be exploited in extrava-
gant language, and with some
regrets that it is not feminine
gender and cannot pose in a
short bathing-suit.
There is nothing new in Presi-
dent Truman’s announcement.
It was to be taken for granted
that the secret of the bomb
would be available within a very
short time after Hiroshima .and
Nagasaki, since there was little
or no secret at all about it.
Those who are now shrieking
most hysterically about the
U.S.S.R.’s possession of it are
those who, at the period during
which it was developed, were
shouting that Russia was miles
ahead of the rest of the wo»ld
in “superb” technical equipment,
manpower and Heaven knows
what beside, a fact which seemed
to give them a malicious pleasure
rather than any qualms, since it
enabled them to draw sneering
comparisons between the
superior Russians, who sup-
posedly were winning the war,
and the contemptible British
“brasshats,” “blimps” and
“washouts” who were incapable,
in the minds of certain sections
of the Press, of anything beyond
carrying white flags (in faked
Communist and Japanese photo-
graphs) to the Japanese in sur-
render ceremonies.
The fact that Russia has the
atom-bomb is probably due to
the Germans, and to the work of
one Russian scientist who was
trained in Cambridge University
under Maoriland’s Rutherford.
It is unlikely to be up to the
standard of the new United
States bombs, and in view of the
enormous equipment needed to
manufacture the atrocity, the
Allied nations have a lead over
Russia which will take many
years to catch up. Also, in air-
craft, despite the sensation, it is
beyond doubt that Russia is years
behind both Britain and the
United States in productive
capacity and in standards of
speed and efficiency, and she has
none of the accessories, such as
sea-power, which are called for
in a yvorld war. Her atomic
sources are vulnerable to attack
in a way in which ours are not.
The kind of atomic bomb of
which the world needs to be
frightened at the moment is not
the kind that comes out of
Atomgrad. It is an age-old
kind, highly developed and con-
ditioned to war, of which the
Russians could immediately pour
40 into Western Europe for every
one that could be mustered by
the Western Allies. It is little
appreciated by the daily Press
because there is little sensational
about it and it avoids showing
its legs, they being hairy and
subject to mosquito bites.
It is called by its familiars the
P. 8.1., and such it will remain
whether mechanised, airborne or
just plain footslogger issue. It
decides wars invariably, and will
continue to do so, even in atom
wars. A contest has yet to be
fought in which the deciding
factor has not proved to be the
trained reserves of it available,
with the necessary equipment, on
each side.
Instead of shrieking hysteri-
cally about bombs the Press
might do a useful service if it
settled down to the problem of
fighting for compulsory universal
military training in Australia,
the only country which claims
to be worth its salt which hasn’t
got it and won’t have it.
In China Before Battle.
“Ek Dum”: The lull in China
has not been without signifi-
cance. Over the wide area of
the Communist sweep toward


Divorce Notices.
iTTHE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
TO IRIS MAY DALLY late of Wollon-
gong.—TAKE NOTICE that WILLIAM
DALLY has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2863 of 1949 on the ground of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court Syd-
ney by the 2nd day of December 1949
and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from EDGAR BEALE, Solicitor,
138 Crown Street, Wollongong, N.S.W. —
(1.5.) J. DOUGHAN, Registrar in
Divorce.
TO WALTER HAROLD CALABY of ad-
dress unknown formerly Soldier occupa-
tion now unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that
a citation has been issued out of the
Supreme Court of Western Australia
citing you to appear in answer to the
Petition of JOYCE CALABY of 38 Me-
Millen Street Victoria Park in the State
of Western Australia praying for a dis-
solution of marriage In default of you
so appearing you will not be allowed
to address the Court and the Court will
proceed to hear the said petition proved
and to pronounce sentence in respect
thereto AND TAKE NOTICE that for
the purpose aforesaid you are within
Thirty days after the publication of this
abstract of citation to attend in person
or by your proctor Solicitor or Attorney
at the Central Office of our said Court
and there to enter an appearance in a
book provided for that purpose. DATED
this eighth day of September, 1949. —
(1.5.) G. J. BOYLESON, Registrar in
Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES —IN' Divorce.
TO CHARLES THOMAS FLEMING.—
TAKE NOTICE that ANNIE ISOBEL
FLEMING has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2667 of 1949 on the grounds of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance by
the 25th day of November 1949 at the
Divorce Office Sydney Supreme Court
House King Street Sydney and a copy of
the petition may be had without charge
from S. S. MITCHELL, Solicitor, Bank
Corner, Wickham, Newcastle; or his
Sydney Agent, Mr. J. K. DIXON, Soli-
citor, of 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.— (l.s.)
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar in Divorce.
SWISS FINISHING SCHOOL
Le Colombian
A private and select Finishing School
for the Study of Languages ( French
and German ), Continental Culture,
deportment and domestic science.
For prospectus apply to : —
MAJOR and MADAM JACQUES H. E. CHABLE
Olinda Falls Rd., MX. DANDENONG, Victoria.^
You'll travel
TRAVEL CASES
Stronger,
smarter,
loager-lasflngl
fm smmmiw
Best Cure for
Money
Worries
4\
i,
m
Worries about the financial future
can make life miserable, can dim the
happiness of any home. But how
bright the coming years can shine when careful savings,
wisely invested, have provided a solid foundation on
which funds for the future can be steadily built!
Right now you can lay that foundation—the Eighth
Security Loan gives you the perfect opportunity.
You can make an investment of any amount from £lO
upward. Your money will be absolutely safe—guaran-
teed by the Commonwealth. It will earn regular interest
every six months. And, in an emergency, your bonds
will be'readily negotiable for cash.
Start, today, to immunise yourself against money
worries. Invest your savings in th 6 Eighth Security Loan.
Save for Security .•. Invest in the
EIGHTH
SECURITY LOAN
85L22.113.99
ADVANTAGES
OF INVESTMENT IN
THE EIGHTH
SECURITY LOAN
Investment in the Eighth
Security Loan is easy, safe
and profitable, whether your
subscription is for £lO, £l,OOO,
£lO,OOO or more. Not only does
it help to protect your future,
it assists in maintaining
Australia’s prosperity as well.
Here are the facts you want
about the Eighth Security Loan:
LOAN FACTS:
The full amount sought is re-
quired to pay for Repatriation
and Rehabilitation, for Public
Works and Services of the
Commonwealth and States and,
as may be necessary, for
the redemption of unconverted
securities of the maturing
Loans.
For BS% Bonds, you may sub-
scribe for £lO, or any multiple
thereof.
For 35% Inscribed Stock, mini-
mum subscription is £lOO, but if
you already hold that amount,
you may increase your holding
by any multiple of £lO.
For 2% Bonds and Inscribed
Stock, you may subscribe for
£l,OOO or multiples thereof.
Your bank will hold Bonds in
safe custody without charge.
You may invest for 3 years at
2% p.a. (subject to the above
conditions), or for 14 years at
3i% p.a.
Interest, calculated from the
date funds are lodged at banks,
savings banks pr money order
post offices, will be paid on
15th April and 15th October
each year. It may be credited
to your bank or savings bank
account without charge.
Bonds or Stock may be readily
sold if you need to use your
money before the date of
maturity.
CONVERSION
OF MATURING
COMMONWEALTH
SECURITIES
Investors holding Bonds or
Inscribed Stock in previous
Commonwealth Loans which
have recently matured or are
about to mature may renew
their investments by converting
into the Eighth Security Loan.
These are the Issues affected:
Matured 15th September: 2i%
Bonds and Inscribed Stock
(issued in 1945—three issues.
The maturity date shown on
these Securities is 15th Sep-
tember, 1949-1950, but the
Treasurer has exercised his
option to redeem these Securities
on 15th September, 1949, and
they became due for conversion
on that date).
Maturing 15th October: 2%
Bonds and Inscribed Stock
(issued in 1946—tw0 issues);
31% Bonds and Inscribed Stock
(issued in 1935—0ne issue).
Maturing 15th November: 33%
Bonds and Inscribed Stock
(issued in 1935 and 1936 —two
issues).
If you hold Bonds and In-
scribed Stock in any of the
issues listed above, convert
your holdings at once into the
Eighth Security Loan. See your
bank immediately.
"Wot! Launch my kid with Water? Here, Padre , crack
THIS over his stern!”
the south, there has been con-
solidation to be done, and no
doubt food to be found, since
it can be taken for granted that
the Red Army is “travelling
light” and living off the land like
a pack of locusts.
There was, however, another
matter which probably dictated
that there should be no immedi-
ate advance on Canton. The
invading force was merely a
rebel force with no national
standing, and it was obviously
vital that Mao and his fellow-
vassals of Moscow should estab-
lish their right to describe them-
selves as a “nation” before tack-
ling the problems incident to
investment of territory immedi-
ately adjacent to Hong Kong
and Macao.
This was done on September
21, when it was announced that
Mao had declared the inaugura-
tion of the People’s Republic of
China, which will be in time, no
doubt, fitted into the United Re-
publics of Soviet Russia or tied
so closely to Moscow that the
only difference between the
Middle Kingdom and Rumania
will be the presence of a Mao
in one and a Pauker in the other.
There has been a good deal
of aerial activity in the Shanghai
area in the past few days, no
doubt grossly exaggerated by the
Nationalists, but irritating to the
Communists, who must lose
some face from the fact that they
are unable to ward off assaults
on such targets as the Kiangnan
Dockyard and Chapei Electric
Power Station.
Last week in Hong Kong it
was believed that an all-out Red
offensive against Canton was im-
minent, but all sorts of things
are always imminent in a Chinese
war, and up to the week-end the
only hostilities in progress in
the south seemed to be an in-
ternal purge in the Nationalist
movement, whose Provincial
Assembly at Kunming had 18
of its members arrested for sus-
pected “Left-wing” sympathies,
while four morning, five evening
and two weekly journals were
liquidated, no doubt having sold
out to the enemy in the usual
sensible Chinese fashion. Several
editors and reporters were in
the lock-up on September 13 —
and, it is to be hoped, still are,
since the most fashionable way
of releasing an editor at this
stage of Chinese politics is likely
to be through the floor.
As well as these small acts
in the interests of security the
provincial university has been
temporarily suppressed as a
centre of “subversive activity.”
The Russian Linkage
Any lingering doubt about
the ambitions and nature of the
Chinese Communist organisation
which so many hardy and ill-
informed critics have continued
to hold up as a new kind of
Communism, “quite different
from Russian Communism,” is
now settled for good and all by
Mao’s own proclamation and
admission, made on the 20th
anniversary of the foundation
of the movement.
This pronouncement has pre-
viously been quoted briefly, and,
seen in extenso, confirms the
worst interpretations of him. It
contains such passages as:
The anti-fascist Second World War,
with the Soviet Union as its driving
force, defeated three big imperialist
Powers, debilitated two others, the
United States being the only great
imperialist nation which was not
reduced in strength.
Also:
Internationally, we are oriented to
the anti-imperialist front under the
leadership of the U.S.S.R., and we
can look for support only by adher-
ence to that front.
So it is the intention, Mao says,
“to travel the road with the
Soviet Union,” and to smash
foreign reactionaries''with a view
to earning the respect of the
world and establishing foreign
relations with all countries pre-
pared to deal with the new Gov-
ernment “on a basis of equality.”
The “friendly alliance” of China
and the Soviet Union is held to
be the “most important” weapon
of the New China.
That is true, since without
Russian help there would be no
Mao and no “invincible people’s
army of China.”
The Canberra's Horse-
power.
“Ek Dum”: Britain has “done
it again” in the aircraft world.
To follow the succession of
marvels of the past two months
—the Comet, the Brabazon and
the new types of fighter which
have flown to Paris from London
in 20 minutes —Rolls Royce last
week unveiled the new Avon
axial-flow turbo-jet, about which
there has been a great deal of
speculation.
It turned out to be a small
piece of work with power rated
at 75001 b. static thrust, which
means that at maximum rat-
ing at 600 m.p.h. it develops
12.000 h.p.
It shows how aircraft' have
developed in the past decade that
at the ninth anniversary month
of the hottest period of the
Battle of Britain, which was won
with Spitfires and Hurricanes
powered with the 1050 h.p.
Rolls Royce Merlin, a British
fighter should be fitted with the
new Avon unit —the experi-
mental Avon Meteor, which can
climb to 40,000 ft. in a little more
than four minutes.
The Canberra, first of
Britain’s new line of jet-bombers,
has two of the monsters, so that
at 600 m.p.h. its power rates at
24.000 h.p.!
There is no room for marvel
that those who saw the Canberra
in action a few days ago com-
pared its performance to that of
a modern jet-fighter.


j
ĵ
Ex-American Army Disposals. Olive Green
CA. Proofed “Cable Duck” Tents. Brand
New, Waterproof and Rotproof. Definitely
no fly required.
Bft. x 6ft. £5-19-6
10ft. x Bft ;. . £7-5-0
Take advantage of these bargain prices. When
writing please enclose cheque or money order.
Satisfaction guaranteed. Mention “Bulletin.”
P & L TRADING CO
250 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
SUNDRY SHOWS
"Edward My Son."
“Edward My Son,” written by
Robert Morley for Robert
Morley, is being played by
Robert Morley at Sydney Royal
and the combination is distinctly
successful. Author Morley’s
hero, or villain, Arnold Holt, is
a clerk who graduates to a part-
nership with an ex-convict in a
furniture business and then, by
burning that venture, ostensibly
to raise enough money to send
his son, Edward, to Switzerland
for specialist medical treatment,
collects enough from the insur-
ance company to launch into
those mysterious financial heights
or depths which the common ob-
server, and even, sometimes.
Royal Commissions, cannot con-
fidently label as being within or
without the law.
Except for the arson incident
and ruthless application of the
law of self-preservation. Holt’s
business methods remain pretty
much in a haze, but his private
life, and his whole character
in fact, as he goes from
Mister to Lord Holt is epito-
mised in his reply to his
mistress when she asks what
would he do if anyone found out
about them: “Find out some-
thing about them” With varia-
tions, that system of gentle black-
mail serves him well in his rise
to omnipotence—he buys the
mortgages on the school from
which his son would otherwise
be expelled, and when his wife
is about to start divorce proceed-
ings he threatens to link her
name with an old friend of the
family and blast hell out of them
both. „
As justification for his career
and his methods Holt claims he
did it all for his son—a spoiled
young wastrel who is eventually
killed over Germany and who,
incidentally, never appears in
the play—but although that
excuse might be acceptable
for the burning of the
furniture-shop, it would seem
more feasible that that incident
served to give him the experi-
ence and appetite for that kind of
business, and that his subsequent
career was determined, not by
any love of his offspring, but by
the common motive of greed for
power and money. Of course it
may be possible that author
Morley intends that interpreta-
tion that Holt’s claim of
paternal affection is only
hypocrisy—but, if that is the
case, it is not made very plain.
In any case, and despite
natural parental indulgence, it
seems highly improbable that a
businessman of the stature and
astuteness of Holt would be
blind to the fact that he was ruin-
ing his son by encouraging his
extravagance and profligacy;
more likely, and more in accord-
ance with the alleged
for his son, he would drive the
young fellow pretty hard along
the straight and narrow to equip
him to take over his father's
financial empire.
Whatever the vagaries of the
father-son relationship, however,
there is nothing uncertain about
the creation of Holt the
scoundrel. Bland, witty and
ruthless, he moves through the
piece almost like a gleeful giant,
delighting in his power and
wielding it with humorous con-
tempt for everyone. Nor is there
any doubt about Morley’s acting
of the role. He is a magnificent
actor commanding, natural,
beautifully polished and with a
voice that falls as pleasantly as
it does clearly on the audience.
It is easy to see how he makes a
monty of such roles as Whiteside
in “The Man Who Came to
Dinner,” or Undershaft in
“Major Barbara.”
Morley brought two players to
Australia with him —Ellis Irving
and Sophie Stewart. Irving plays
the family doctor and friend, a
pretty flat sort of role, but he
leaves nothing out of it. Miss
Stewart (Mrs, Irving) does a nice,
tidy job as the busy little wife of
Mr, Holt in the early scenes, and
then runs up to some dramatic
temperatures as the broken,
drunken wife of Lord Holt. The
rest of the cast are local players,
and, while none of them can
claim the advantage of having
parts especially written for them
by themselves or anyone else,
they all contrive to revolve grace-
fully around Mr. Morley, parti-
cularly Bettina Welch as Holt’s
secretary-mistress—her best stage
performance since Elvira in
“Blithe Spirit.”
* * * *
Pinero’s “Trelawney of the
Wells,” put on by Melbourne
National Theatre with period
dressing and even period pro-
nunciation, was one of the most
successful revivals seen for a
long time. The period was
stuffy, and in his story of the
opera singer who finds she can’t
breathe in the atmosphere of
Vice-chancellor Si r William
Gower’s stuffy family circle and
goes back to that immoral in-
stitution the theatre, the Portu-
guese-Jewish dramatist was con-
cerned in showing its stuffiness.
The National Theatre players
succeeded admirably in convey-
ing that effect, especially in
Act II where Sir William and
his missus, with faces covered
with their napkins, enjoy a good
sleep after dinner while their off-
spring and boy- and girl-friends
sit around in awed silence wait-
ing for them to finish. Ray
Lawler made Sir William a
domestic tyrant of the same dire
order as the celebrated Mr. Bar-
rett. Rose Trelawney, who has
provided a fat part for so many
leading actresses, was in the
hands of Bettine Kauffmann.
She gave it the requisite touch
of temperament and fancy.
* * * *
A second inspection of the
N. S. Wales Royal Art Society
exhibition confirms the impres-
sion that it is the society’s
strongest show for many years.
Besides those mentioned last
week, paintings of high quality
include Hayward Veal’s
“Nocturne,” bought by the N. S.
Wales National Gallery; two
landscapes by Percy Lindsay in
which, in spite of poor frames,
he demonstrates once again that
he can do two things better than
anyone else in Australia —paint
the silver light that falls on
cumulus clouds and the golden
glow that penetrates a distant,
bush-covered hillside; a small
Lance Solomon, “In Coolah
Valley,” full of stormy atmos-
phere ; Fred Bell’s “Broken
Light, Ingleburn” ; J. C. Cole-
man’s “Balmoral,” in which a
fine salmon-colored sail glitters
above water as thick as putty;
several small Salvanas, alive with
a rough, natural rhythm; Clif
Peir’s “Oatley Bay” and Doug-
las Pratt’s “Western Morning.”
A second inspection confirms,
too, the exceptional quality of
John Baird’s “Frogmouth,” its
mottled and tawny feathers
amazingly soft in watercolor, its
orange eyes vivid with fear and
cruelty. In its cage beside its
dead mouse, it is a perfect speci-
men for any of the National
Galleries, for a school, for a
nature-lover’s collection or for
reproduction in a nature-book.
* ■* * *
lan Fairweather, an English-
born artist whose tinted sketches
from India and the Northern
Territory are showing at Sydney
Macquarie Galleries, goes in for
tubular figures resembling steel
furniture, evil-looking Orientals
with lopsided eyes and noses,
and landscapes with a sort of
montage effect under the influ-
ence of Oriental art. Most of
the sketches are so very sketchy
that they look like idle doodlings
on a piece of blotting-paper;
but there is a pleasing decorative
effect in the heights of “Valley
and Hills, Kulu,” and the blazing
ferocity of “Girl’s Head” has an
emotional power that overrides
the insipid technique,
* * * *
Peter Glass, whose first ex-
hibition, two years ago, sold
out, has been holding another
show of oils at George’s Gal-
lery, Melbourne. A half-dozen
still-life are excellent and his
landscapes are good, though
not of the same order of under-
standing as his camellias and
carnations. His two portraits
are not good at all, and, in view
of the high standard of the rest
of the exhibition, it is difficult
to know why he hung them.
* * * *
There is a native vigor and a
fascinating rhythmic quality
about Spanish music, especially
of the intensely nationalistic
school headed by Albeniz and
Granados. These were empha-
sised by the visiting Spanish
pianist Mercedes Bebia in a re-
cital of her compatriots’ work
at the Sydney Con. At times,
especially in fast-moving fortis-
simo passages, the effect became
cloudy ; but of the general effect
there was no possible doubt. This
was Spanish music with its roots
deep in the Spanish folk-song,
on which Granados and Albeniz
so ably built. Another concert
—which it is hoped will not be
so drastically abbreviated as the
last —will be given on October
19 ; those who have been used to
taking their Spanish music from
Ravel and Bizet would do well
to hear the real thing.
* * * *
The Sixth Subscription Con-
cert of the Queensland Sym-
phony Orchestra, conducted by
visitor Percy Code, was notable
for its opening and conclusion.
The neatness of Handel’s “Con-
certo for Orchestra” and the
authoritative playing of the or-
chestra and Margery Horn at
the organ left an impression of
excellence not sustained through
the diffuse and patchy Tschai-
kowsky Violin Concerto. Ernest
Llewellyn, the orchestra and
Tschaikowsky were at their best
in the lovely, singing second
movement. The major work of
the concert was a first perform-
ance for the orchestra of the
Brahms Fourth Symphony; the
closing movement was magnifi-
cent.
Edward G. Robinson is still
the screen’s best at thumping his
fists for silence and then mut-
tering through a cigar “Now
lissen, you guys.” In “Key
Largo” at Sydney Regent he and
the boys are in a bad spot. With
the D’s on their tail they have
to heave-to for a few days in a
flop-house down in Florida wait-
ing for another mob to cash
some of the fine currency they’ve
been printing. While they cool
their heels the joint gets
crashed; no, not by cops, but
by a darned hurricane. Only
the hardware toted by E.G. and
the boys prevents them leaving
the picture there and then in-
stead of waiting until Humphrey
Bogart makes stiffs out of ’em
all later on. The idea of Bogart
and Robinson in opposite guern-
seys is one full of promise, and
apart from the slight disappoint-
ment of no sub-machine guns the
show is fine.
Wants.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
To buy copies of Essays of Elia by
Lamb, Tristram Shandy by Sterne,
Pickwick Papers by Dickens, Henry
Esmond by Thackeray and an
abridged translation of Boccaccio’s
Decameron. —46B9.
To buy copy of It Can’t Happen
Here by Sinclair Lewis. —4690.
Buyer for complete file of The
Bulletin from November 11, 1915,
to August 24, 1949. —4691.
To buy copy of Badger and the
Boarders and Stories by “Kodak” by
Ernest O’Ferrall. —4692.
Wanted, gymnastic material, second-
hand : parallel bars, vaulting-horse,
springboard, medicine balls, for
N.S.W. country high-5ch001.—4693.
Words of verse “That Day at Boil-
ing Downs” by Jack Mathieu. —4697.
To buy copy of Fair Girls and
Gray Horses and Hearts of Gold by
Will H. Ogilvie, also any book of
poems by Barcroft Boake. —4696.
Husband and wife, with child of
three, would like fortnight as paying
guests on N.S.W. sheep-station at
Christmas. —4695.
Information Sought.
How to make small quantities of
fish paste for home use?
Fish are cleaned and all waste fins,
heads, etc., are discarded; it is then
cooked in a steam-jacketed pan and
finely macerated in a grinding mill,
mixed with flavoring, artificial color-
ing and a small quantity of preserva-
tive, packed in sterile containers and
sealed. Preservative is usually sali-
cylic acid. Consult your Pure Food
Act for details. For home use,
complete sterilisation by salt and heat
should be sufficient for small quan-
tities.
* * * *
Method of testing crankshaft and
measuring main-bearing clearance in
a Dodge car?
To test a crankshaft for trueness,
mount it in lathe-centres and test
with a unique gauge. To test clear-
ance of main bearings, cut a small,
flat piece of very thin sheet lead and
insert between the cap bearing and
the crankshaft. Tighten the bearing
cap down to the correct tension, then
remove the bearing cap and measure
the thickness of the piece of lead
with a micrometer. This will give
the clearance measurement required.
* * * *
(1) What variety of maize is used
for making popcorn? (2) How is it
made in the home ? (3) Would much
gear be required to make it for com-
mercial purposes, and where would I
get tips on its manufacture?
(1) Several varieties of miniature
maize are used, the favorite being a
small, white, pointed grain called
white rice. (2) Maize is gathered
when quite ripe, shelled and dried,
then placed in an iron container over
heat and shaken; when hot enough,
the grains pop and burst, turning
partly inside out, but burning must
not be allowed. The popped grains
are dredged with sticky sugar or
toffee mixture, colored or plain, and
packed for sale. (3) Very little gear
is required. Consult the pink pages
of your city telephone directory for
confectioners’ supplies; buy a good
book on sweet-making or take lessons
if contemplating commercial work.
* * * *
Was Jess Willard the biggest boxer
to become world’s heavyweight
champion, and who was the smallest
to win that tide? Which boxer
reigned longest as heavyweight cham-
pion of the world, and which had
the shortest reign ?
Primo Camera was world’s biggest
heavyweight champion. He stood
6ft. 7in. tall and weighed 19st. 121 b.
Jess Willard (6ft. 6in. and 18st. 31b.)
was next. Tommy Burns (sft. 7in.
and 12st. 71b.) was smallest to win
this title. Joe Louis had longest, and
Camera shortest, reign as champion.
Louis was champion from June 22,
1937, until he retired unbeaten in
1948. Camera held title from June
28, 1933, until Max Baer beat him on
June 14, 1934.
* * * *
What is the degree of longitude on
which Eastern Aust. Standard Time
is set, and any special reasons for its
selection on that particular longitude ?
The longitude to which Eastern
Standard Time in Australia corres-
ponds is 150 deg. east. Some years
ago it was agreed, as a matter of
convenience, that all standard times
should be an integral number of
hours ahead or behind Greenwich
mean time. The longitude selected
for eastern Australia is exactly 10
hours ahead of that of Greenwich.
* * * *
How many Senators and how many
members of the House of Reps will
there be in the new enlarged Federal
Parliament ?
There will be 60 Senators (10 from
each of the six States) instead of 36
Senators (six from each of the States).
The number of members of the
House of Reps will be 121, excluding
the non-voting member representing
the Northern Territory. The number
of electorates will be increased in
N.S.W. from 28 to 47, in Vic. from
20 to 33, in Q’land from 10 to 18,
in South Aust. from 6 to 10, and in
West Aust. from sto 8. Tasmania
will have five electorates as pre-
viously.
Brief Answers.
D.R.H.: Write Canadian Govt.
Trade Commissioner, 60 Hunter-
street, Sydney... .R.T.8.: If single,
would not be eligible for a pension;
if married, would be entitled to an
age pension at a reduced rate. Should
you gain possession of one of your
houses, the value of such would not
be taken into consideration in com-
puting the rate of pension payable
to you J.S.: Fruit-picking employ-
ment is obtainable during February in
N.S.W. in the Murrumbidgee Irrigation
Area, Young and Orange districts.
.... A.C.: A will is revoked by a sub-
sequent marriage. In the case sug-
gested, the deceased would have died
intestate.... W.McF.: A widow of a
contributor to the State Superannua-
tion Fund of Victoria is entitled to
half of the pension for which her late
husband contributed. This could
range from £65 p.a. to £845 p.a
A. 8.: The conferring of the “Free-
dom of the City” is an old British
form of conferring an honor on some
distinguished person, and in the
Prime Minister’s case was conferred
on him in recognition of the fact that
he was born, educated and reared in
Bathurst and attained the highest
Parliamentary office in the Common-
wealth, as well as recognising his
services to various institutions in
Bathurst as a citizen L.McD.:
Write Supt., Mercantile Marine
Office, York-street North, Sydney;
also to offices of shipping companies
in Sydney and Brisbane.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the
MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany, MS, should bs
addressed to the Editor,
M.L.: Sficky toffee J.G.: If
music be the food of love —it must
be the way you write about it
G.A.: “Joseph’s Coat” didn’t quite
fit... .W.J.C.: “Materia Medica”
wasn’t our prescription H.J.H.:
You may not believe it, but some
of our contributors can get more
horrifying effects in broad daylight
than you can in a nightmare
U.: When a Maori criminal falls
over a mountain it is adding insult
to injury to suggest that his own
countryside has risen in judgment
against him C.C.: Odds on
double-chart story not long enough.
V.F.: After your three little
surprises, nothing will surprise u 5....
U.A.: Even at the high prices short
stories are bringing, killing a bull for
a short story is uneconomic S.T.:
Liked the idea of your circus agent,
but you have not made a story of it.
M.A.F.: If the hero is not very
bright, the story needs to be brilliant.
B.C.: Hiking story doesn’t get
anywhere 1.T.: The only thing
we could make out was the title,
“Richard Died Last Night,” which
does not seem to have been true
A.R.: “The Ridge” left us up in
the air L. 8.: Your story seems
cooked-up, even if your newlyweds’
fowl wasn’t E.V.C.: Your little
melodrama is about 100 years too
late I F.: Unfortunately, a flood
of unexpected light has faded your
blackout story D.H.S.: Nearly,
but the five stories are still a bit
conventional and a bit sad
F.W.J.L.: Only an incident, but if
you do anything more like a story
we should like to see it.


m
m
m
m
ALL KINDS OF
i FISHING TACKLE!
For river, beach and deep
sea fishermen, English and
French NYLON LINES...
hunting knives . . . smokers’
requisites. Write for new
fishing catalogue, now avail-
able.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 George st., Sydney.
Phone M 6261.
AUSTRALIAN JOCKEY CLUB
SPRING MEETING—I 949
To be held on RANDWICK RACECOURSE
Ist, 3rd, sth and Bth OCTOBER
PRINCIPAL EVENTS
First Day—SATURDAY, Ist OCTOBER
THE A.J.C. DERBY; £lO,OOO added. (For 3-year-old Colts and
Fillies only). ONE MILE AND A HALF
THE EPSOM HANDICAP: £4OOO added. ONE MILE.
The Colin Stephen Stakes: £2OOO added. (Weight-for-Age).
ONE MILE AND A HALF.
Second Day—MONDAY, 3rd OCTOBER (Six Hours’ Day)
THE METROPOLITAN: £6OOO added.
ONE MILE AND FIVE FURLONGS.
The George Main Stakes: £2OOO added. (Weight-for-Age).
The Gimcrack Stakes; £l5OO added, (For 2-year-old
FIVE FURLONGS.
Third Day—WEDNESDAY, sth OCTOBER
The Craven Plate: £2OOO added. (Weight-for-Age).
ONE MILE AND A QUARTER.
The Flight Handicap: £2OOO added. (For 3-year-old Fillies)
ONE MILE.
Fourth Day—SATURDAY, Bth OCTOBER
The Randwick Plate: £2OOO added. (Weight-for-Age).
TWO MILES
The Final Handicap ; £lOOO added. ONE MILE AND A QUARTER!
Office: 6 Bligh Street, Sydney
W. N. PARRY-OKEDEN, Secretary.
333
»»
/ like the EXTRA flavour
THE SECRET'S IN
. THE 333'* BLEND.
STATS
SPORTING NOTIONS
TOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S RED MILL RUM.
After the usual optimistic Friday-
evening assurances by club officials
that the meeting would be held, come
whatever, and that the track would
be no more than “holding,” Satur-
day’s S.T.C. fixture at Rosehill was
postponed to today. It is the fourth
postponed meeting so far in this
Year of Rain. If the weather runs
true to current form, it looks a safe
bet that rain-affected tracks will call
the tune for much of the spring
racing, as they did last year.
No really outstanding Derby colt
has shown up this year, and the
classic looks a very open race. By
reason of his performances in the
Canterbury and Rosehill Guineas,
Delta is favorite, hard-pressed for
the honor by Dickens and Achilles.
Achilles has not tackled the minor
three-year-old classics; his pedigree is
more suggestive of brilliance than
stamina, but he turned in a fine
Derby trial in running Columnist to
a half-head in the w.f.a. Chelmsford
Stakes (9f.), with King’s Ransom,
Vagabond and Dark Marne finishing
behind him. Minor placings behind
good performers also comprise the
Derby credentials of the Genetout
colt Dickens; he finished second to
Count Aulone at Canterbury and
third behind Thracian Lad and Delta
in the Rosehill Guineas.
With the Sires’ Produce Stakes to
his credit the Nuffield colt Field Boy
was the early favorite for the Derby,
but he fell from grace after mediocre
displays in both Guineas. Field Boy
may strike better form at Randwick.
The Newcastle performer Val Bowl
has a string of wins to his credit, and
impressed at his only Sydney start
by finishing second to Count Aulone
at Randwick; chiefly because of his
win on that occasion Count Aulone
became favorite for the Epsom.
Purple Prince, an exceptionally hand-
some son of Talking, showed Derby
promise a few weeks back, but has
since disappointed. The number of
occasions upon which he has found
himself in bother during races sug-
gests that he must be an awkward
customer, and the Derby field is
likely to be a large one. Playboy is
another Derby colt who has shown
plenty of stamina.
Melbourne visitors for the Derby
are Patron, Better Law, Centurion
and the New Zealand-bred Birdman.
All have excellent form, with Patron
particularly impressing, but there has
been no opportunity to see them in
action against the local talent.
With so many good winners en-
gaged it may seem rash to plump for
a maiden performer in the Derby,
but such is present writer’s inclina-
tion. Kymac has done comparatively
little racing, and has never finished
closer than second, but he is always
finishing-on well, and gave his best
display in finishing fast into third
place, two lengths behind Delta, in
the Canterbury Guineas. A chestnut
colt by Marabou from Yellow Gold,
Kymac belongs to the same family as
Hyperion (English Derby and St.
Lcger), Sansovino (Derby) and Bos-
worth (Ascot Gold Cup). His sire,
Marabou, won the Melbourne Cup,
and has sired a string of good
stayers, including Skipton, who won
the Melbourne Cup as well as the
Victoria Derby and a division of the
Caulfield Cup. Kymac’s dam, Yellow
Gold, is beautifully bred, by Lo
Zingaro from Spearlette (by Spear-
head, by Spearmint, by Carbine). So,
for the A.J.C. Derby, Kymac to win
from Achilles, with Delta and
Dickens close at hand.
Having won 37 Epsoms and 36
Metropolitans, four-year-olds have a
wonderful record in the spring han-
dicaps, and they should add to it
this year. Five-year-olds have done
next best with 29 Epsoms and 27
Metrops. Most prominent four-year-
olds in this year’s Epsom are Count
Aulone, Buzmark and Dynamite, and
in the Metrop., Foxzami, Snow-
stream, Benvolo, Indian Chief and
Sir Falcoji.
Happenings at today’s Rosehill
meeting may confuse the issue, but
at time of writing Count Aulone
looks as nearly as possible a handi-
capping certainty for the Epsom with
6.9; were he able to reassess them in
the light of performances since
weights were issued the handicapper
would surely now give Count Aulone
something round the Bst. mark. At
his last start at Randwick he led all
the way on a heavy track over the
Epsom distance, carrying 9.1, to win
by two lengths from Val Bowl, who
had won at his previous five starts.
One of Count Aulone’s toughest-
looking opponents is Buzmark (7.8);
they may clash at Rosehill today.
Dynamite (8.3) has shaped indiffer-
ently in recent starts, showing little
of his three-year-old form, but he
could easily improve, and the mile
journey will suit him. Both Count
Aulone and Dynamite are sons of
Ajax; Buzmark is by Hall Mark.
Of older Epsom candidates The
Groom (8.8) and Homeleigh Dick
(8.9) make most appeal, with Denali,
Mortar and Smooth Action chances,
and Newborough a “roughie” with a
slight show.
Benvolo, Indian Chief and Sir
Falcon are all the rage for the
Metrop., but, while duly respecting
that healthy trio, this page’s vote is
for Foxzami, or, in Foxzami’s ab-
sence, Snowstream. The five men-
tioned are all four-year-olds, and yet
another of the same age with a fair
Metrop. chance is the beautifully-
bred Count Cyrano. Of the older
horses in the Metrop., most have
either too much weight or too little
form. King’s Ransom looked a feally
good horse in his only Australian
appearance, but with 9.3 has to con-
cede the four-year-olds a pile of
weight. Dark Marne also has 9.3,
and Proctor 9st. Of the outsiders in
the Metrop., one who has been shap-
ing fairly well of late is the four-
year-old mare Grey Nurse, handily
weighted at 7.6.
* * * *
Incredible as it might seem to the
tens of thousands packed into the
Show and the V.F.L. grand final,
there was also a solid attendance at
Moonee Valley on Saturday, where
perfect weather made for some ex-
cellent racing. Punters, however, had
a stiff trot, having to wait till the last
of eight races before a favorite was
successful.
Main event was the mile Moonee
Valley Stakes for three-year-olds,
with £2OOO prizemoney plus a £lOO
trophy. Bookies took no risk about
the Stakes, having Regal Scout at
twos, St. Comedy and Iron Duke
both threes, and Gay Venture 5 to 1.
Leading all the way, St. Comedy won
comfortably, though only by a neck.
While Purtell was riding St. Comedy
along with hands and heels, W. Cook
was very hard at work on Regal
Scout, who doesn’t impress now as
likely to see out the Derby distance.
Gay Venture finished third, but Iron
Duke, just pipped for the minor
money, was more impressive. If St.
Comedy should win the Victoria
Derby it would complete a unique
“Higher up on the shoulderblade, dear.”
double, with his full-brother Comic
Court successful last year.
It was rather ironic that the Cor-
roboree Handicap of 13 furlongs
should have provided the only win-
ning favorite of the day; Melbourne
punters can barely remember when
a favorite last won one of these dis-
tance affairs. The “good thing” for
the Corroboree was Precedent, start-
ing at 9 to 4 and winning by three
lengths from the ever-consistent grey
Our Land.
The St. Magnus six-year-old St.
Razzle (W. Williamson) made a tip-
top job of downing a good field in
the 10-furlongs Quality Handicap,
Leading as they turned for home,
and beating off the favorite Beau
Gem, Red Fury looked all over a
winner, but St. Razzle and Lincoln,
both finishing strongly from a fair
way back, had the edge on Red Fury
at the post. St. Razzle scored by a
neck from Lincoln, with a head to
Red Fury and a further head to
Royal Tan. All three placegetters
gained admirers of their Caulfield
Cup prospects; St. Razzle has 8.10
in the Cup.
• • w •; •
The Kinderscout gelding Voussoir,
who has intermittently shown promise
in the past, made every post a win-
ning post in the 10-furlongs Pascoe
Handicap. Showing a clean pair of
heels all the way, he had two lengths
to spare from Gallant Rob at the
finish, with favorite Canopus a
moderate third. Some weeks back
Voussoir was sold for 1200 guineas,
but his first owner had a change of
heart and bought him back at a loss
of 265 guineas. Saturday’s first prize
of £525, plus what could be picked
up at odds of 6 to 1, made amends.
* * * *
For Randwick (before accept-
ances) : '*
Trial Stakes: Maranga, 1; Lyn-
dale, 2; Royal Reward, 3. Breeders’
Plate: Beau Gene, 1; Jangada, 2;
Tuituilla, 3. A.J.C. Derby: Kymac,
1; Achilles, 2; Delta, 3. Epsom
Handicap: Count Aulone, 1; The
Groom, 2; Buzmark, 3. Colin
Stephen Stakes: Carbon Copy, 1;
Dark Marne, 2; Foxzami, 3. Squat-
ters’ Handicap: Persist, 1; Grey
Nurse, 2; Bold Archer, 3. Kensing-
ton Handicap: Susan, 1; Grey
Boots, 2; Admetus, 3.
For the Metropolitan: Foxzami,
1; Snowstream, 2; King’s Ransom,
3.
♦ * ♦ *
To hand recently the 1949 edition —•
the 86th —of the cricketers’ bible,
Wisden. In 1889 Wisden initiated the
practice of publishing photographs of
outstanding players, etc. The latest
edition contains in all 13 photo-
graphs. Six are of groups and inci-
dents of the recent Australian tour.
The other seven are individuals:
Hassett, Morris, Lindwall, Tallon, W.
A. Johnston, Bradman and the im-
mortal Doctor-Grace? No, Evatt!
In some directions, at least, Bert has
the game by the throat.
In choosing Hassett, Lindwall,
Morris, Johnston and Tallon as its
Five Cricketers of the Year, Wisden
adds a note that “the omission of
Miller, Barnes and Harvey came as
a reluctant necessity.” Bradman and
Bill Brown have, of course, previously
appeared as Cricketers of the Year.
* * * *
Any degenerate capitalistic British
athletes who may have been led by
vicious propaganda to believe that
the glorious free workers of Russia
don’t know the meaning of sports-
manship can consider themselves cor-
rected by the Russian publication
“Soviet Sport”:
“The moral quality that charac-
terises the tactical spirit of our Soviet
football is high, and inspired with
a collective feeling of the game.
Almost every one of our players,
without hesitating, would pass the
ball to his partner if that one had a
slightly greater chance to make a
goal. This is done, not only because
of game discipline, but with a sense
of internal satisfaction.”
Which is about as close as many
of the free workers will ever get to
knowing internal satisfaction.
* * * *
Nearly 90,000 packed themselves
into M.C.G. for the V.F.L. “grand
final,” expecting to see a fine game
between Essendon and Carlton, but
the 10,000 who didn’t get in and
hung around outside missed nothing.
After the first quarter the Dons,
aided by their great follower,
McClure, galloped joyfully to the
premiership, and were so far in front
that all they had to do was feed the
ball to John Coleman, their star for-
ward, so that he could put up his
100 goals in his first League season,
it was 18.17 to 6.16 for Essendon at
the finish.
Actual attendance at the match was
88,718, well below the record of
96,000-odd who saw the Collingwood-
Carlton match in 1938. Saturday’s
crowd paid £9050 to get in, and had
the ground been big enough to hold
all who wanted to get in, probably
110,000 would have been there. Vic-
torian football is the biggest business
in organised sport outside horse-
racing; it won’t be clean until urn-
pires get more power to deal with
r ough play.
John Colema n, the 20-year-old
Essendon forward who outshone
V.F.L. goal-getters in his first year
j n football, is a slim six-footer
with 80 extraordinary leap and fine
judgment. He takes marks at all
angles. Others have achieved 100
goals in their first season, but few
had the experience of being on the
winning side in a final and being fed
with the ball so as to make the tally,
as Coleman was on Saturday.
* * * *
Playing the same splendid football
that they have turned on throughout,
the Australian Rugby Union tourists
wound up their trip by beating New
Zealand 16-9 in the second Test at
Auckland on Saturday. Winning both
Tests, the Wallabies regained the
Bledisloe Cup, which had been in
New Zealand hands for some 15
years.
In contrast to the crowd of 30,000
which watched the Union match, a
mere 3000 saw the Australian Rugby
League team beat South Island 38-8
at Christchurch. At least there were
3000 present when the match com-
menced; about one per cent, of that
number stayed to the doleful end,
and it has been unkindly suggested
that they must have been Scots to
a man.
* * * *
W. D. Ackland-Horman, the big
South Australian medico, is Aus-
tralian amateur golf champion after
a stout struggle against W. A. Edgar
(Vic.) in pouring rain on Royal
Sydney. At the 37th, after nearly
losing sight of little Edgar as the
Victorian waded through the ponds,
the South Australian had a 4ft. putt
for a win, missed it, and they swam
and paddled to the 38th, where the
champion dropped in a back-door
seven-footer to win. It took nearly
an hour to wring them out.
* * * *
The match Jack Hassen v. Archie
Kemp, for the Australian lightweight
title vacated by Vic Patrick, ended
tragically in the 11th round with the
young Victorian Kemp carried un-
conscious from the ring, to die the
following morning. At the end of
the eighth round Kemp was well
ahead, on points, but thereafter com-
menced to take terrific punishment.
In the 11th round, with his opponent
out on his feet, Hassen appeared
reluctant to continue; he stopped
fighting and glanced towards the
referee. However, none of the four
persons empowered to stop the fight
intervened, Hassen was obliged to
carry on, and the tragic affair was
finished in a few seconds.
Following Kemp’s death there has
been a renewed outcry for a boxing
board of control, but how could any
board of control have prevented last
week’s tragedy when neither the
referee, Kemp’s chief second, the
police nor *he Stadium doctor saw fit
to intervene? There will be occa-
sional tragic accidents while ever
boxing is permitted. One thing that
could, and should, be done is to
have professional fighters covered by
workers’ compensation.


1h«
• Behind every bale of your
wool lie years of courageous
planning and effort.
A.M.L.&F. realise this. That’s
why they give your hard-
earned wool the same
personal care and supervision
as you would yourself, and
that’s why you can be sure of
the best possible price when
you send your clip to
A.M.L.&F.
86 Yeor« in !h» Service of the Man on the Land
INC. IN ENGLAND, 1863.
A 25.40
AUSTRALIAN. MERCANTILE. LAND S FINANCE COY. LTD.
4 BUGH STREET, SYDNEY
AND AT MELBOURNE AND BRISBANE.
Country Branches — N.S.W.: Newcastle, Wagga, Henty, Hay, Cowra, Scone,
Moree, Garah, Wee Waa, Brewarrina. Q’ld: Townsville, Charleville, St.
George, Cunnamulla, Dirranbandi. Assoc. Agents: McPhie & Co. Pty.,
Ltd., Toowoomba, Oakey, Dalby and Pittsworth. Vic.: Wodonga.
PRISMATIC
COMPASSES
For use in marking boundaries,
lining fences and taking bearings.
MARK 111 Liquid £B/10/-
( Illustrated )
MARK IX Dry.. £3/10/-
Also surveyors’ instruments,
clinometers; hand and
dumpy levels.
j
ĵ
Write for
particulars.
“HANDY HINTS FOR THE FARM’
Embracing Wheat, Sheep, Cattle, Pigs, Poultry,
and Vegetable Growing, the Apiary and General Farm A ty
Price 1/- from Newsagents, or 1/2J P°j te< * from
Bulletin Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
Zebus in Cape York.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DONT WORRY I'M ISENDING IT TO GRAZCOS"
“Oro”: Charles Wallace, of
Cooktown, who introduced
Zebus into his herd in 1937, kept
them for only two years, as he
believed they would become too
wild. He considers a lot of harm
could be done by graziers intro-
ducing anything with Zebu
blood regardless of quality.
Zebu-cross bulls of good quality
might, he thinks, be successfully
used, but only where there are
good fences,
Wallace, who recently bought
bulls from the Cressbrook Here-
ford stud, Toogoolawah, says
that cattle in the north must have
good constitutions, and the
ability to walk. They must also
have a milk supply to be able to
rear their calves well. Herefords
and Devons were the best cattle
for the Peninsula; Shorthorns
were too soft to stand up to the
buffalo-fly pest, the worst
scourge the country had.
Cattle in the closer paddocks
could be kept free by spraying
with 20 per cent. D.D.T. emul-
sion in the draining yards after
dipping, but with bush cattle the
pest was out of hand. The diffi-
culties with which Peninsula
cattlemen have to contend are
amply illustrated by the fact that
Wallace, the only exhibitor in
the fat-cattle section at the
Caims show, had to drive his
team of Herefords over 80 miles
of very bad roads to Daintree,
and thence convey them another
80 miles by float. Roads in the
Peninsula are so bad that they
are open for wheeled transport
for only two to three months of
the year. For the rfist of the
time everything goes in and out
by packhorse. Transportation
facilities, more than any other
factor, would help to make the
Peninsula successful. Without
decent roads it will never be
properly developed.
Roundworms in Sheep.
“Rooster”: One of the major
factors in the spread of the
parasite is overstocking. An-
other is indiscriminate buying
of sheep in open markets.
Frequent change of grazing
areas, together with a rigid
examination of bought sheep,
will do much towards lessening
the danger. Anthelmintics can
be administered, but only by a
qualified person. Much depends
also on good feeding and wise
management, both of which con-
tribute towards building up the
natural resistance inherent in all
mammals against parasitic in-
festations.
An equilibrium can thus be
established between the host and
the parasite, normal to evolu-
tionary forces. And it doesn’t
hurt £piy farmer to have a
thorough knowledge of the
roundworm’s life-history and
its relationship with its host.
Then he knows what he’s up
against.
Soil Is All Important.
“Agric”: Professor W. A.
Albrecht, of Missouri Uni-
versity (U.S.A.), one of the
world’s foremost soil scientists,
stated in Brisbane that the
assembly-lines of agricultural
creation started in the soil,
and his broad interest in Aus-
tralia was to look at agriculture
as the factory of food that really
fed and not merely filled.
Discussing some of his work
in America, Professor Albrecht
said that in one experiment they
took three adjoining plots of the
same class of soil and treated
two of the plots—one with lime
and phosphate, and the other
with phosphate only. When the
crops were cut the hay was given
to three separate lots of three
ewe lambs, each lot being given
exactly the same amount of feed
per head per day.
The growth in the 63-day feed
period was 81b. for the un-
treated plot, 141 b. for the phos-
phate-treated plot, and 181 b. for
the lime-and-phosphate-treated
plot. „The hay from each plot
appeared to be the same, which
would be misleading to the aver-
age farmer.
At the next “fall,” two lots of
the lambs did not mate with the
rams, but the third lot (which
had put on 181 b.) had a physio-
logical maturity, in terms of re-
production, which was one year
ahead of the others. Hay from
the two treated plots was then
given to some male rabbits used
for artificial insemination. The
hay from the plot treated with
phosphate let the rabbits go
down in semen delivery, while
the other held up semen produc-
tion. The rabbits which went
down in semen production would
not mate with the female on
contact. The hay was then
switched round, and it took only
three weeks to reverse the situa-
tion!
Sudan Grass.
“Box 173”: The poison risk
associated with the grazing of
Sudan grass has been repeatedly
overemphasised because the plant
is known to contain cyanide.
There are more deaths each year
following the grazing of lucerne
and clovers than are caused by
Sudan grass, but these are taken
for granted as something to be
naturally expected, whilst occa-
sional Sudan - grass poisoning
gets wide publicity.
It is known that Sudan grass
is most likely to cause poisoning
when second or third growth is
grazed, during hot dry weather
in mid-summer, or after grass-
hopper invasion. With Sudan
grass, two or three head of less
valuable stock should be run into
the paddock before general graz-
ing is commenced. They can be
the guinea-pigs to test the crop
for poison.
If, after an hour, the test
stock show no ill-effects, the
whole herd or flock can be
grazed. It is wise to watch
throughout this first grazing for
any sign of poisoning, the
obvious symptom, which is easily
recognised, being rapidly accele-
rated breathing. If stock are
taken from the crop immediately
they show this symptom they
will recover without injurious
after-effects.
Subsequent daily grazings
need not be supervised, but if
stock are removed from the pad-
dock for a period of days the
crop should be again tested at
the next grazing period. If the
crop should prove to be
poisonous when tested the pad-
dock should be closed to stock
for three or four weeks until the
crop becomes more mature,
when it will probably be found
that the dangerous period has
passed.
Sudan grass is grown essen-
tially to produce supplementary
“We won't disturb 'em now — We'll come back later.”
summer feed when weather con-
ditions cause natural feed to be
scarce, and in inland districts
the crop to grow is the one which
will do best under dry condi-
tions, for if the season is good
there will not be much demand
for a fodder crop.
Foul Brood in Hives.
“Don Drone”: American
foul brood is caused by a rod-
shaped sporing organism. The
spores are formed and act in a
manner analogous with the seeds
of a plant. They are very re-
sistant to adverse conditions, and
when a suitable environment is
obtained they can germinate and
recommence infection.
Sulpha drugs were tried in the
U.S.A. and apparently gave 100
p.c, control, but it was later
found that the effect was purely
bacteriostatic. The bacteria use
substances chemically akin to
the sulpha drugs as food
materials. If the drugs are
present they are absorbed by the
bacteria as if they were the
normal food, and then block the
absorption of the true food sub-
stances. The bacteria under the
artificially-created adverse con-
ditions will then produce spores,
and most of them may even die.
If administration of sulpha drug
is discontinued the spores will
then germinate, and any surviv-
ing vegetative phase bacteria will
again grow and we are no better
off. Failure to recognise this
principle caused considerable
losses in the U.S. In addition
sulpha-drug-resistant strains of
larvae have now been isolated,
at least one of which is tolerant
to about 10 times the normally
lethal concentration of the drug ;
this further complicates the
problem.
In Australia all authorities
seem to agree that burning of
infected bees and materials is the
only sound method of control.
Regular and frequent inspections
should be made, and all cases of
infection reported to depart-
mental authorities, and bees and
materials disposed of according
to their instructions.
At present there is no com-
pensation for owners who are
ordered to destroy infected
materials, and as this can run
into a large sum of money in a
moderate outbreak, it would
appear that some scheme would
be of great benefit. It would
encourage apiarists to report out-
breaks to the authorities im-
mediately and so help to prevent
spread. .In addition it would help
to cushjon the financial losses to
owners in serious outbreaks.
Grass for Tidal Flats.
“He-Ne”; A grass that has
proved valuable on New Zealand
tidal mud flats * is Spartina
townsendii, first recorded in
England on the Southampton
salt marshes near Hythe in 1870.
It is a tall-growing, robust, stiff-
stemmed plant growing in some
places up to 40in. above the mud.
S. townsendii was introduced
into N.Z. in 1913, and was suc-
cessfully established in the
estuary of the Manawatu. From
there plants have been distri-
buted to many parts of the
Dominion, and have grown best
at Invercargill. In November,
1939, an area of 34 acres was
planted to protect the exposed
estuary banks from wave-wash.
Now 70 acres are covered by a
dense sward. Probably Spartina
could be put to valuable use
along many of the tidal flats in
Australia.
Feeding Pigs.
“Big Billy”: Crops such as
mangolds, pumpkins, sugar-beet,
carrots, swedes and artichokes,
fed with a protein-rich concen-
trate (such as meatmeal), will
provide part of the ration for
fattening pigs and a suitable
ration for wintering stores.
Area of roots required for
wintering stores does not call for
a great deal of labor. Two tons
of roots will winter a sow for
three months, and half a ton
will winter a store pig for the
same period. A 30-ton crop of
roots will thus provide (with the
addition of the necessary meat-
meal) foj the wintering of five
sows and 40 store pigs.
Young pigs should be brought
gradually on to a winter ration
of roots, and young stores should
not be brought to a full ration
until they are three to foqr
months old or at least 551 b. live-
weight. Until then they should
receive a sufficient ration of
separated milk and meal.
Where swedes can be grown
carrots can, and young pigs
should be started on carrots if
possible. Where land has pre-
viously been in crop or is lying
fallow plough deep, but if in
grass use the skim plough. Leave
for a few weeks, then disc or
pulverise the turf and plough
deep.
Table Poultry.
“Mr”: In Victoria the de-
mand for table poultry is keen
enough, but buyers are becom-
ing more discriminating, the
market favoring well-finished
birds with an abundance of
breast meat and fine in the bone.
Assuming the breeding is right,
birds destined for the table need
to be fed well, both to add flesh
and improve color.
In the early stages they can
be given the same rations as fed
chicks intended for the laying-
pen, but as they approach mar-
keting stage they’ll need a sub-
stantial fattening mash twice a
day (without grit or grain) and
confinement to a fattening coop
for the final two weeks. Either
of these two mixtures will do:
51b. of dried buttermilk or lib.
of skim milk; 51b. of meatmeal,
301 b. of ground wheat or barley,
301 b. of ground maize and 301 b.
of ground oats (best quality
only); or 101 b. of meatmeal,
251 b, of ground wheat or barley,
251 b. of ground maize and 401 b.
of ground oats, with ample
quantities of cut-up greenstuff.
Make the coop 7ft. 6in. long,
20in. wide, 20in. high, and. divide
it into three compartments each
to accommodate five or six birds.
Use light battens Hin, apart,
except in front, where they’re
2J-in. apart so that the birds can
put their heads through to the
feed-trough, which is outside.
Floor the crate with battens wide
enough to allow droppings to
fall through, but not so wide
that the birds will catch their
feet. Move crate daily to avoid
fouling of the site.
Pinkeye Control.
“K.W.R.”: Pinkeye occurs in
sheep and cattle in most parts of
Australia. In the Victorian
“Journal of Agriculture,” vet.
G. Nicol states that in cattle it
is due to an infection different
from that in sheep, though
symptoms are similar. In ad-
vanced stages, and in untreated


__ For Sale.
CLIMBING TOMATO, bears a whole
year, yields 2001 b.; has 20ft. runners
loaded with large red tomatoes. Disease
and drought resistant. Sensation in
America. 2/6 pkt. posted.
N.S.W. SEED 00., Kurnell, Sydney.
EXIT THE RABBIT!
CYANIDE
j
CRYSTALS
RABBIT
FUMIGANT
100 p.c. effective # Costa Id. per hole # Requires no equipment
Produces No Dangerous Fumes Until Burrow Is Closed
One pound will treat approx. 50 holes.
81b. tins, 32/- each 21b. tins, 9/- each
1 doz. tins in case 340/-
F. 0.8. Sydney
1 doz. tins In case 96/-
3T.0.8. Sydney
If your local store cannot supply,
we will send direct to you.
Post free throughout Australia.
FLAK
INDUSTRIES
23 ADDISON ROAD,
MARRICKVILLE, N.S.W.
Please send 8-lb. tins of Please send 2-lb. tins of \
FLAK RABBIT FUMIGANT
for which I enclose cheque (add exchange) postal notes.
NAME.. I
( Capitals )
ADDRESS
B. 28/9/’49. |
I
m
I
%
THERE’S
NO DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THESE FAMOUS
BULLDOG TRACTORS
No finer tractors ate built today . . . anywhere . . . than these
new K.L. Bulldog and Lanz Crude Oil Tractors—now merged
to provide a range of 30, 40 and 45 H.P. real economy models
to suit the requirements of any farm, large or small. From the
simplicity and efficiency of their single cylinder, two cycle,
slow speed engines with only 8 main moving parts, to their
amazing economy of operation on crude oil—the cheapest of
fuels—these new post-war Bulldogs are identical in every
respect and offer you best value in tractors that money can buy.
THE SAME
Unrivalled Economy
ĵj
OF CRUDE OIL OPERATION . . .
Only Bulldog Tractor owners enjoy the amazing economy of oper-
ation on crude oil—the cheapest of fuels. Only they benefit from
the tremendous money-saving advantages of a truly simple, yet
highly efficient engine that can reduce upkeep costs and depreciation
to a record low level. Lanz Tractor figures compiled under actual
working conditions in every State of the Commonwealth have proved
that farmers can save up to £B5 on fuel, £2O on maintenance and
£5O on depreciation, amounting to over £l5O per year saved on
the running costs of any other type of tractor or a total saving of
up to £1,500 in 10 years, which more than refunds the capital in.
vested in a new K.L. Bulldog or Lanz Crude Oil Tractor.
THE SAME
Simple, Trouble-free
j
SINGLE CYLINDER ENGINE .
Both K.L. and Lanz Crude Oil Tractors are powered with the
famous Bulldog single cylinder, valvelcss engine. All intricate
mechanism has been eliminated. No careful checking or adjustment
is necessary. Bulldog engines are built to suit the dusty conditions
and irregular overloads under which tractor engines must operate
and their sheer simplicity of design and construction reduces vear,
maintenance and depreciation to the barest minimum In fact,
this complete elimination of all unnecessary cylinders, pistons and
other delicate moving parts enables the Bulldogs to reduce their
maintenance costs to actually less than one-third
those of any other type of complicated keroseiw
or diesel tractor engine.
!i
nw
THE SAME
Rugged, Powerful PERFORMANCE ~
Only new K.L. or Lanz can equal in achievements the amazing
performance records set up by pre-war famous LANZ Crude Oil
Tractors. Over 3,000 of them are still in operation in Australia
today. Not one is under ten years old—not one is out of service
or failing to perform its tasks with the minimum of attention and
maximum of efficiency and economy. Bulldogs are built for tough,
rugged work under the worst tractor conditions. Their ability to
withstand the rigours of long usage and greater physical punishment
is demonstrated by their invariably higher resale value over any
other type of tractor
K.L.&
BUL
|LANZ
DOG
ChuteOU TRACTO R S
State Distributors:
N.S.W., Dangar, Gedye & Malloeh Ltd., 10-14 Young St., Sydney.
Elder, Smith & Co. Ltd., 27-31 Currie St., Adelaide. WESTERN AUSTRALIA, Kelly & Lewis (
If I I *-A 111 C11..L.i.L Ci. LJ_I a. ■ irrain. • » . » ' _ . * V
, F.l£?itli CL i' l ir ac £ or Sa,es Pt . y - Ltd., 304 Spencer St, Melb. SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
K.L. Distributor. Ptv Ltd 233 Eli»l»tV sV“aFiiBWcTt elly & Lewis (W.A.) Pty. Ltd., 349 William St, Perth. TASMANIA,
ILL. Distributors Pty. Ltd., 233 Elizabeth St, Hobart QUEENSLAND, K.L. Tractor Sales Pty. Ltd., 121 Brunswick St, Valley, Brisbane.
KL2O4
cases, it can cause permanent
blindness and severe damage to
eye structure.
First symptoms are slight
swelling and reddening of the
eye capillaries, while the lining
membrane of the eye cavity may
be inflamed. There is often
excess tear secretion, but other-
wise the condition does not
appear to be very severe. If
treatment is . delayed the eye dis-
charge thickens and becomes
contaminated by bacteria, caus-
ing gumming of the eyelids. The
discharge scalds the skin of the
face and mats the hair. In many
cases there is fever, loss of
appetite and consequent loss of
condition.
Early treatment is important.
All lotions used should be non-
irritant and mildly antiseptic.
Boric-acid may be used in 4 p.c.
solution, or combined with 2
p.c. zinc-sulphate. Organic
preparations of silver, such as
argyrol, are useful and easily
administered.
When symptoms first appear
it is best to treat all the animals,
as many apparently free from
infection develop symptoms
later. Mass treatment should be
done daily for several days and
will limit the percentage of in-
fection. With valuable stock,
additional precautions may be
taken, such as protection of eyes
from dust and sunlight, and
twice-daily treatment with an
eye lotion.
Hints for the Farm.
“Rooster”: During calving of
heavy-milking cows, always keep
a sharp lookout for abnormally
large, swollen udders. If the
udder appears pendulous it is
advisable to cull the animal from
the herd. Pendulousness and
mastitis usually go together. To
prevent this condition it is im-
perative to extract some of the
milk prior to calving. The
animal usually registers discom-
fort in this respect by walking
“straddle-legged.” The colostrum
can be preserved by freezing for
feeding to the calf when it is
born.
“Kun”: When applying ferti-
liser on a windy day, prevent
waste by mixing in damp ashes
or sawdust.
“Keekwun”: Citrus needs
plenty of potash, and liberal
dressings will prevent drop of
fruit and give the sap a salty
flavor, making it unpalatable to
sucking pests. A cheap source
of potash is wood ashes, but
lime should always be added to
make available the maximum
amount of plant food. The per-
fect fertiliser for citrus, based on
chemical analysis of well-grown
fruit, is a 4 : 9 : 8 mixture of
nitrogen, phos. acid and potash,
with at least half the phosphate
citrate soluble as bone.
“Mur”: In a dry climate,
where evaporation is high, dry
grass placed about the roots of
plants in beds and containers
helps to conserve the moisture.
If dry leaves are available, and
are of a type that will not injure
the plant, they will provide
nutriment as well as help to con-
serve water. Incidentally, it is
better to soak a plant at regular
intervals than to give it only a
little drop daily.
“Biro”: When there is dis-
agreement about the poisonous
nature of certain plants such as
nightshade. Darling pea, strych-
nine bush, heliotrope weed, etc.,
exterminate them and plant
something known to be whole-
some in their place. Many pests
have gained a footing in Aus-
tralia because people couldn’t
make up their minds as to
whether they were noxious or
not. These include Canadian,
Scotch and saffron thistles, which
must have begun in a small way
and increased swiftly. A good
spray-pump and weed-killer are
the best answer to dangerous
plants.
“Ware”: Where rabbits are
bad, protect myrtle bushes —the
scrub-type known as boobealla.
Myrtle makes an excellent ever-
green hedge, and, if the earth is
hollowed out about them so that
they will benefit from rains, they
will grow without watering in a
rainfall of about 12in. a year,
They will probably get along on
much less; mine did not die
when only 3in. were recorded
for the year in our Quom (S.A.)
district.
“gj g Billy”* Housine of
du<* S need not' be elaboifte-f
narrow open-fronted house fitted
with nests will suffice. Shed
should also allow 2 so ft
.if 1 2 T ,
bird l n f "S? be * arge
f?° ugb ‘P allow 75 sq. ft. per
b /Pi ? 18 ™Ppjt ant that ample
shade be available and plenty of
| re f\ feed a P d water. With
sbur f and Pekms > P rovide
f exercises.
Coart , : Swede
Can b ”\ a( l e to ,. sup i )ly , a ot
B f^ n ’f ecd for 1116 Se ,s ct
r0 ? t? tGO and fibr P us fo £
eatin S a ” d k ®?P breaking off
part of L . tbe fo . lia 8 e as lt grows.
“® a 8 f lvmg r o°ts
p M? ty of „ water * T* l ® swedes
usually keep growing until
|£ ey . or until aphides beat
t ien V Chinese cabbage, too, is
a -P d u d S reen ‘f® ed f° r fowls,
a ? d « has < an advantage over
Sllver ‘ be ft m that insect pests
are no * *°° ond


brnmidm
IN YOUR KITCHEN
AGA
HEAT STORAGE COOKER
The Aga offers you a 24-hour service—complete
freedom from power restrictions—and a guaran-
teed economy. For it is a coke-burning stove that
stores its own heat, and uses no more than a
specified, and very small quantity, of fuel. The
cream-coloured, vitreous enamel finish is wonder-
fully easy to keep clean and sparkling, and the
AGA steams, boils, roasts, toasts, deep-fries and
grills like a domesticated demon. A luxury to
own, a prudent investment to buy!
DEMONSTRATION
British-made, the AGA Cooker is guaranteed for 10
years against faulty materials or workmanship. Come
and see the AGA demonstration at our showrooms!
LEVIN AND COMPANY LIMITED
Sole Agents lor AGA Heat Storage Cooker
45 King Street, Sydney. 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
113 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Cnr. Margaret & Albert Streets, Brisbane.
Tasmanian Agents: A. G. Webster & Sons Ltd., Hobart.
W.A. Agents: Malloch Bros. Ltd., Perth.
A6/168
SMOKERS
PIPE TOBACCOS THAT ARE
BLENDED TO GIVE
SATISFACTION TO ALL.
HOUSE OF MURPHY. A bleqd of
the highest grade of leaf to give a
cool smoke of satisfaction that men
prefer. 22/- per lb. Posted.
A.A.A. HILXTOP, A blend of
Australian, American and African.
20/- per lb. Posted,
WINSTON BEADY RUBBED
CIGARETTE TOBACCO. Greatly
Improved by better blending of
mature leaf. 24/- per lb. Posted.
Special Quotes to Retailers for lots SOlb.
weight or over.
Write to: Cash Order Dept.,
Hillman Trading Co.,
Commercial Road, Brisbane.
Postage paid . on Cash with order.
Postage extra on 0.0. D. Orders.
Face Facts
W^L
m
iM
ti
c
''i:.
ii 4
{.•ft
'/'//'
,vw
r*
WlM*'
It is a fact that the average
Australian male grows
approximately 25,000 hairs
on his face. To obtain a
satisfactory shave, each of
these thousands of individual
hairs must be cut closely and cleanly
every day . . . Wise men know that the daily shave can
be accomplished with speed, ease and comfort by using
a Blue Gillette Blade in a Gillette Razor.
<s>
< J
.•v
v.'T'
S X
'Good Mornings begin with Gillette
BLUE
Gillette
BLADES
TEH FOR 3/- FIVE FOR 1/6
1/1M
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
! “Says Mr. Tan of Singapore: The
present brutal attitude of Immigra-
; tion Minister Mr. Calwell towards
Asians inspired the proposed legisla-
tion.’ ”
i That’s one on the kisser for
Arthur!
I *fi if* *
1 “For the girl who is broad in the
, beam, rather strong measures are
I necessary.”— Woman’s magazine.
I Stern measures, too.
i *F *F *F
“No move on racecourse.
—“Brisbane Telegraph” heading.
Or left again!
•J* 4*
“Red kelpie pup, six months old,
three white feet, answers to Sandy.”
—Suburban paper.
A ruddy blackleg among ’em!
“The more children people have
the less chance there is of their
marriages ending in the Divorce
Court.” — Sydney “Daily Mirror .”
True —happy marriages being
so much kidstakes.
4* 4* 4*
“Much has been said about the
spirit of British women. For a
change I’d like to say ‘Hats off!’ to
Australian housewives.”— -Melbourne
columnist.
Hear, hear —especially at the
pictures.
•j. 4* . 4*
“At what age do you think a girl
should give up hope of ever getting
married?”
—Correspondent in woman’s paper.
When there’s not a single
prospect left.
•F *F *F
“Any anti-Red moves in Canberra
will be under current powers.”
—Sydney “Sunday Telegraph."
With not enough current even
to tickle them.
❖ ' 4* *F
“I don’t know whether it’s the
influence of Cecil B. de Mille or not,
but the American woman is essen-
tially the product of the bathroom.”
—“New Idea.’'’
She always seems to be just
stepping out.
The Inner Vision.
“Temperance leaders will try to
stop hotelkeepers using television sets
in bars when the service is introduced
in Australia.”
—Sydney “Daily Telegraph
Our sympathy goes out to
thinkers
Who fear that television-sets
Will rope in greater crowds of
, drinkers
, Than radio and s.p. bets.
But tact and patience are essen-
tial
If enemies of booze would
win
A hearing that is deferential
. From those who deal in liquid
\ sin.
So waste no time in vain berat-
ing.
You leaders who are out to
' beat
The demon drink, for alienating
The publican will spell defeat.
It’s best to show him how re-
dundant
Are aids that television brings
When topers plainly have abun-
dant
i Facilities for seeing things.
D. H. E.
A Question of Currency.
I ran into Bawrer at the club
the day the news broke about
the devaluation of the pound.
Ever since he inherited a sub-
stantial patrimony Bawrer has
been given to talking high
finance. Many members regard
him openly as a dope, an opinion
I cannot share; in fact, it was
purely my respect for his
acumen in these matters that led
me to seek him out.
His face lit up with gratified
delight as I asked him humbly,
as a layman seeking advice from
an authority, to explain exactly
the significance of the sensa-
tional decision, particularly as it
would affect our economy here.
“Actually,” began Bawrer
confidentially, “I clearly foresaw
the inevitability of devaluation
of sterling months, even years
ago. Patently sterling could not
continue in its past relations to
the dollar, or, for that matter,
even the kronen or the yik. No-
thing to my mind was more
obvious, also, than die inevi-
tability of a sharp rise in the
price of gold as a natural corol-
lary.”
“I suppose,” I remarked ad-
miringly, “you bought UP heavily
in goldmining shares in antici-
pation of this event and can now
clean up any time you care to
unload?”
A slight frown crossed
Bawrer’s face, and he seemed,
I thought, to require some time
before answering.
“Not exactly,” he said at last.
“ Johnson , did YOU put these tiddlers in the font?”
“You see, I foresaw also,
shrewdly, if I may modestly say
so, that if I plunged heavily the
market, always sensitive, would
have reacted violently and im-
mediately to the suspicion which
must have resulted from the
sudden movement in so many
shares. It may have led to
panic selling, the international
effect of which would un-
doubtedly be frightening, with
the possibility of its starting a
world-wide depression. Far be
it from me to accept primary re-
sponsibility for such a disaster!
As a matter of fact, I”
“Exactly,” I broke in sympa-
thetically. “But you were going
to explain the new currency set-
up.”
“Yes, quite,” he said. For a
while he chewed his cigar
thoughtfully, and then for a time
thoughtlessly, before initiating
me into the mysteries and rami-
fications of international finance.
“Er, it’s like this,” he said
finally. “You understand that
sterling is now devalued. That
means,” he went on impressively,
“it has been decreased in value
—in short, it has got cheaper.”
He said the last word almost
contemptuously.
“Now, the dollar,” he went
on, “has in effect become dearer.
You understand, if you want to
buy dollars you pay more for
them. Now dollars are ‘hard’
currency—or are they ‘soft’? —
anyway, it really doesn’t matter.
What does matter is that multi-
lateralism and deflation are cer-
tain to result from it in terms of
our exportable surpluses and
our accumulated funds in Lon-
don —bound up, of course, with
price-index figures and move-
ments in the International
Monetary Fund. You see, it’s
quite simple.”
“It is, up to a point,” I said,
“and, of course, for one such
as yourself who has made a pro-
found study of the subject. But
I might grasp it better if you
could give me a practical demon-
stration. Now,” I went on,
pulling out a pound-note and
putting it on the bar in front of
us, “let us take a hypothetical
case. I’m an Australian im-
porter ; you’re an American ex-
porter. First I want to change
my pound Australian into dol-
lars. That would be how
many?”
“Under the new rate, two and
a quarter,” he replied.
“Well,” I said, “make the ex-
change. We can use, for the
purposes of argument, seeing that
dollars are at present unprocur-
able, pound-notes as substi-
tutes.”
He took two pound-notes from
his wallet and some silver from
his pocket. I took them.
“Now,” I said, holding them
up, “I want to purchase from
you, say, chewing-gum, to the
dollar value of this. Now work
it out how many dollars’ worth
you would export to me.under
the new devalued currency.”
“Let me see,” he said. “Two
and a quarter times two and a
quarter.” He took a pencil and
paper and set laboriously to
work. After about five minutes
he announced the result at five
and a bit.
I pushed across the £2 ss.
“Round figures will be near
enough. Now effect the ex-
change in dollars.”
He peeled off five pound-notes
and passed them over, putting
the £2 ss. back in his pocket.
“Now,” I held the pound-notes
up, “these are dollars, remem-
ber!”
“Quite,” he said.
“Now,” I said, “I sell the gum
in Australia at a profit of one
hundred per cent. You, of
course, have already made your
profit in the original sale to me”
—and I pointed to the pocket in
which he had put the £2 ss.
Bawrer nodded in agreement.
“Right,” I went on. “I
therefore gross ten dollars, five
of which is my clear profit.” I
held the five notes up. “Is that
right?”
“Yes,” he said.
“It will not be affected by the
new exchange rate?” I asked
anxiously,
“Definitely not,” he said em-
phatically,
“This profit I have made is
mine, then?” I asked.
“Absolutely!” he said.
I stuffed them in my pocket.
“Thanks, Bawrer,” I said
warmly, “for a most valuable
exposition of the currency posi-
tion. I have never spent so
profitable a half-hour. Don’t
forget this” —and I pushed
across to him my original pound-
note he had changed into re-
puted “dollars.”
Bawrer took it. “Thanks, old
man. Jolly decent of you to re-
mind me,” He still looked,
though, as if something had him
slightly puzzled.
It was silly, of course. Not
Bawrer., He’s got such a grip on
financial matters.
BO.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Area Schools
“Gravelsnatcher’s” plan (B. 24/8/’49)
for making country schools attractive to
teachers has its points, but the area school
is a better idea. Under this scheme, the
several small schools in a district are
closed and the pupils taken by bus to a
central school, where they receive an
education with an agricultural bias,
English in origin, the scheme has been
adopted in Tasmania.
J. S. Maslin, the pioneer at one of the
two first Tasmanian area schools, has
published an account of his work under
the title Hagley ; and the book is well
worth reading. The senior pupils at
Hagley, as well as doing ordinary school-
work, run a farm of 170 acres, a poultry-
farm or about 400 laying stock a
vegetable-garden and a canteen which
selJs two-course dinners and milk-dnnks
to the children, and buys me t, m ,
butter eggs and vegetables from the
sctiool farm and garden.
The pupils learn to budget their
ventures; they build stables, lay concrete-
paths, make lawns and carry out repairs
on the school estate. A school Parlia-
ment gives them practical knowledge of
civics, practice in public-speaking and a
measure of self-government. Fourteen
resident pupils, mostly sons of ex-service-
men, afe wholly-maintained by the
h ’j 3 3
The’area school need not, of course,
include a farm ; the form it takes will
depend on local demands. The main
drawback appears to be the twice-daily
bus trip, but even that is counterbalanced
to sowi extent by the midday dinner
available at school
_. ... r . . .
S' nce tde mception of the scheme in
1936 new area schools have opened at the
rate of one a year. In his foreword to
Hagley ProL Browne says that the area
school has practically solved rural educa-
tiona problems in Tasmama.-M. S.
''
. , . ~
Adelaide ohow
South Australia can be proud of its
Show staged in spite of strikes, short-
ages and the threat of drought. The
well-dressed shop-window of the State is
the complete answer to those who would
eliminate the profit motive, private m-
terest and competition from the life of
the community.
For one week only the public is in-
vited to visit a Utopia from which the
average is excluded and in which only
the best is on view. From the percherons
to the hens, from the bulls to the butter,
every exhibit is judged on its merits. Such
words as go-slow, near-enough, darg and
quota are not in the lexicon of the
judges or onlookers. Awards and
applause are won only by tireless indus-
try, supreme effort and the ambition to
excel.
The Show is inspired by self-interest in
every section. If the producers, salesmen
and entertainers were to limit their pre-
parations and programmes to a 40-hour
week, if the incentives of profits and blue
ribbons were barred, the annual event
w'ould be as sombre as a museum instead
of being as colorful and exciting as a
three-ringed circus.— Jockey (S.A.).
New Farming and Old
“Kanimbla” (B. 17/8/’49) should con-
sider his own country before coming out
with figures of declining crop tonnages
in Britain. I could show him a farm
outside Sarina (Q.) where, as a result
of farming with modern implements and
the skilful use of artificial fertiliser, the
farmer has just harvested around 200
tons of Comus sugarcane from a four-
five-acre block.
That farmer has a lot more good cane
on the farm, but the patch just cut was
outstanding. Befqre he took over, the
bulk of the land was so poor it would
barely grow grass. It is still poor, but
skilled cultivation and fertiliser are grow-
ing bumper crops where once small
farmers were “starved out.”
Whatever evidence there is in favor of
old-time farm practices there is also plenty
in favor of the new. And, in the sugar
lands at least, where every commodity
except the farmers’ own product has
risen in price, there’s no chance of a re-
turn to the old, hard tactics of farming.
-W.C. (Q.).
Peanuts
North Queensland peanut-growers are
battling against rising costs and fixed
prices to the farmers —the manufacturer
can sell at any price. In July, 1948, the
Prices Commissioner granted growers a
rise of Id. per lb., but since then there
have been three basic-wage increases, and
one increase in both shipping and rail
charges.
Is it any wonder that farmers are turn-
ing to more profitable crops? Even the
man in the street is at last realising—as
other civilisations realised' years ago —
that price-fixing can never cure economic
ills. It is too expensive, lacks fluidity to
meet changing conditions, particularly
climatic ana marketing conditions, and
all it does is kill incentive while creating
good jobs for bureaucrats.
North Queensland is crying out for
development, and the land and climate
are suitable for expansion of peanut-
growing. There is an unlimited home
market and every prospect of a good
overseas demand. But with the price as
fixed there has been a fall in production.
In the north labor costs from ss. to
10s. per week more than in southern
Queensland, but the Atherton Tableland
Peanut Marketing Board has to sell its
nuts at the same price as southern pea-
nuts. — Agric (Q.).
Workers’ Compensation
Workers’-compensation insurance is a
pretty stiff item —in the timber business
it is more than 10 per cent, of wages
paid—and yet the same broad results
could be obtained without such heavy
penalties on the employer. Wouldn’t it
be possible for the employer to pay the
same rates, etc., to injured workers as
they now receive under the Act, and
cover himself by taking out a separate
policy designed on a sliding-scale to cover
various degrees of liability?
With, say, 10 men working and receiv-
ing an average of £lO a week each,
workers’ compensation is approximately
£5OO-£6OO for the year. That seems to
be quite out of proportion to the risk in-
volved and to expenses covering all acci-
dents in any one year.
An employer could insure for an antici-
pated amount (payable to injured workers,
doctors, etc.) for the year from £5O to
£lOO upwards. The premium could be
lowered because the actuarial position
would be different —it would possibly be
5 per cent, at most, with much smaller
rates for low-risk jobs such as stores and
the like.
If any employer had more to meet than
he had insured for it would be his bad
luck, but the worker would still be pro-
tected. Normally, however, employers
with experience could gauge a satisfactory
coverage.
The overall drop in insurance expense
would be hard to calculate, but it would
probably run into millions.
This being so, the idea would no doubt
get a chilly reception from insurance
companies.
It would be interesting to compare the
total of premiums paid for workers’ com-
pensation with the total of payments
actually made to injured workers.—
R. H. G. (W.A.).
Family Endowment
I agree with “Angel” (B. 7/9/’49) re-
garding the value of a man’s labor, but
not with his plan for family allowances.
A man should not be paid more for his
output because he has a family. He does
not increase Australia’s population for
altruistic reasons, but because he wants a
woman for himself exclusively, and be-
cause he and his wife want the greatest
of life’s benefits —family life.
People wanting the greatest comfort
should be Willing to pay for it, as single
persons must pay for their lesser luxuries.
The unmarried already do pay tax greatly
in excess of that paid by the married man,
for the doubtful privilege of living alone,
with no refund when entering the married
state. Socialism has proved that a Gov-
ernment cannot give anything away in
return for nothing. *
Should family allowances be paid,
families of the lower-mental order would
increase out of all proportion in the lust
for money, much of which parents would
spend on themselves to the detriment of
the children. To many recipients, our
present child - endowment payments
merely mean more beer at the expense of
the single taxpayer.
While a man must work for his family’s
upkeep, he is more likely to keep it to
a number he can cope with financially
and bring up decently.— Tackline S.
(N.S.W.).
Peak Downs Sorghum
“F.R.” on Peak Downs sorghum (B.
7/9/’49) reads like a Hanlon-Chifley
reply to a question in Parliament.
Severe frosts, unexpected seasonal con-
ditions and suchlike are well-worn
•pleas. Statements about worn-out
pastures "find ruined areas were old
in Queensland Land Courts 50 years
ago. ,In spite of that the sheep popu-
lation* of the State is about the same, and
the wool per head has increased from
about 51b. to over 81b. Generally speak-
ing, on good land —and Peak Downs is
among the best —there is no such thing
as ruined pastures in sheep country.
“Infested with mint-weed, saffron-
thistle, spear-grass and white-spear!”
When Bathurst-burr first hit Peak Downs
the same wails were heard; when
Noogoora came in the wails were echoed.
And so on.
“F.R.” states that the plough is going
to rejuvenate ruined pastures. How? He
further implies that ploughing is going to
wipe out the noxious grasses and revive
the good stuff. How?
The facts remain that one of the most
prosperous pastoral areas in Queensland
has been taken for a political plaything.
The farmers of the Downs, when en-
couraged to grow sorghum, had about
4,000,000 bushels left to rot on their
hands. Sorghum would not fatten a fowl,
let alone put pork on a pig—supple-
mentary concentrates are needed. Does
“F.R.” know of Gindie State Farm, very
close to the areas now being spoilt? That
was better soil, same rainfall and
managed by a real farmer. Yet, in spite
of Government aid, or because of it, that
went broke. — Milo (Q.).
War-gratuities
Wanting a few pounds to complete my
new home, debt-free, I thought of my
war-gratuity maturing in 1951. The War
Gratuity Board replied that, while it
could advance the amount to a bank,
building society or other approved insti-
tution, it could not anticipate maturity
of the gratuity in the case of a person
financing a building from his own re-
sources.
It seems lopsided to me. I have to go
to the bank, pay interest on a loan and
get the gratuity to pay off the loan with
interest. Yet with the gratuity, I don't
want a loan. — Ziff (N.S.W.).
Municipal Squandering *
“Carlyle’s” defence of municipal
councils and officers (B. 14/9/’49)
appears convincing, but his figures do not
represent the true picture of maladminis-
tration in municipal councils today.
Since reading “C.’s” claim, I have made
a study of municipal officers and em-
ployees. This is what I found; Sweep-
ing gutters, once done by a man, a horse
and a dray, is now done by three men.
One leads the horse, the second sweeps
and the third shovels the piles of dirt
into the dray. The “team” recently took
two hours to clean my street —approxi-
mately 300 yards long, and the gutters
far from dirty. They had at least two
good “smokos.”
Recently I reported an uncovered
lavatory to the council health inspector.
I explained that, with the poliomyelitis
scare, it was a menace to neighboring
children’s health. The health inspector
assured me it would receive his own
personal and immediate attention, as he
also considered it a menace to health.
After three weeks it is still uncovered,
and one of the children has been ad-
mitted to hospital with the disease.
Many Melbourne municipal councils
have reduced garbage collection to once
instead of twice and thrice weekly in the
last municipal year—yet rates were not
lowered. In many cases they increased by
2d. and 3d. in the £,
Councillors would be doing a better
job for their municipality if they forgot
politics and analysed their wastage
through maladministration. In many
Melbourne suburban councils the
“Labor” group meets behind closed
doors before council meetings to decide
how it will vote. These “Labor” coun-
cillors frequently spend more time in their
caucus meetings than at the council meet-
ings.
Melbourne City Council recently
appointed a special committee to study its
finance. Most of its drastic recommenda-
tions to cut down expenditure have since
been adopted, and now this council, with
a rate of 2s. 2d. in the £, has a much lower
rate than most metropolitan and country
councils, despite its huge cost in maintain-
ing many large and beautiful gardens.—
Waddlin’ Willie (Vic.).
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 36
Across.
I—Scarcity of coppers on the
ground. (6)
4—A French Nobel Prizewinner
from Germany and Edward have
terrified no crew. (8)
8— A European river sharpener for
razors he finishes off in the
possessive’s characteristic mark.
(10)
9 Heroic verse. (4)
11— It’s the very devil in the air
according to the King who has
upset me and taken nothing in
return. (7)
12— Roman pepper for a Highland
musician. (5)
14—Rank of the actors chosen for a
play on the East. (5)
16— As backed by Chaney of Holly-
wood in the beauty-parlor. (5)
17 — A burst of organised voluntary
work by people with or without
hives. (3)
18— One takes the thing in the island.
(3)
19— List that the waiter waits for? (3)
20— Production and income of a
musician. (5)
21— Italian saint says so about an
insect. (5)
22 Whoever gets up. (5)
23 Abstracted from a red dive. (7)
24 Punch might put his foot in it, (4)
26 —State name takes the Spanish on
a large fruit. (10)
(CRYPTIC TYPE.)
C Solution in next issue.)
27 — Tree wherein Saggers boasts of
his dog imitations? (8)
28 — Trees like writers. (6)
Down.
1 — Drink gets on the game equip-
ment. (13)
2 The youths get a Government
hand-out with perfumes. (11)
3 You can tret on it that Baby
Baba’s on a rocky hill. (11)
5 I am in New Hampshire before
I take the catalogues of people
who believe in nothing. (9)
6 Sleep on the woolly surface of
the cloth. (3)
7 Only half the cricket-field is
available at the time when Test
matches begin. (4)
10 —Heart’s piano on the impressions
of home-wreckers. (13)
12 — Buddy found in Mascot, Essen-
don, Archerfield —and 7 down
and 23 down. (4)
13 — Australian author has six to
measure up in an English prison.
(11)
15 —A fictional midshipman has 100
locks in such furniture. (4, 5)
23 —Act of a fictional gentleman who
goes to town. (4)
25 —Bill with this, as a rule, and 100
pair of spectacles. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 35.


We will
OUTLAW
the
COMMUNISTS
# because we are pledged to support decent Australian trade unionism;
# because we have undertaken to introduce the secret ballot —
which Communists oppose;
0 because we know that Communists are the enemies of Australia;
# because Communists are sabotaging production and so helping to
increase the cost of living.
THE LIBERAL PARTY is pledged
to rid Australia of the Communist Wreckers
Authorised by D. M. Cleland, 30 Ash St., Sydney.
FLS4A-49
