

CHRISTMAS WINE
Have yon friends or relatives in the United Kingdom? Here, then, is news that must
interest you. Just imagine them toasting you at Christmas Dinner while you toast them
in the same wine twelve thousand miles away! That’s possible through the “WINE-FOB-
BRITAIN” scheme introduced by The House of Seppelt. Through thpir London Office, Seppelts
will arrange for your friends in the Homeland to be supplied with Seppelt Wines before this
coming Christmas. You’ll have to act at once for Christmas will soon be here. Gpt details
of Seppelts “Wine-For-Britain” scheme: Write to The House of Seppelt, Box 1122 U G.P.O.
Adelaide, South Australia.
Rio
S®
A
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
SERVICE
The Bulletin
‘The Bulletin,” Vol. 70 —No. 3641
Wednesday, November 23, 1949
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
an ancient border market
_ town north of Shrewsbury, derives
its name from St, Oswald, a king of
Northumberland who was killed in a
battle against Penda, the heathen king of
Mercia, in 742. The ancient seal of the
town depicts King Oswald bearing a
sword and an oak branch. Owing to its
position Oswestry dominated the sur-
rounding country, and for centuries it was
the fortified key to the Welsh Marches.
Its castle was held by Norman Fitzalan,
who, in common with other Lords of the
Marches, was greatly concerned in the
subjection of the Welsh. The few re-
maining fragments of this ancient castle
testify to the strength of its ramparts,
which were a mile in circumference.
In 1165 Henry II made the town his
headquarters in his abortive attempt to
subdue the Welsh tribes, and just over
200 years later Richard II held a Parlia-
ment here. Oswestry was held for the
king during the Civil War, but sur-
rendered after its second siege in June,
1644. Under Cromwell the fortifications
of the town were reduced and the castle
and walls were demolished.
The Church of St. Oswald, shown in
the accompanying illustration, is one of
the largest parish churches in England. It
stands on the site of a monastery built in
the sixth century. The first recorded
evidence of a church is in a charter given
by a lieutenant of Roger of Montgomery
to the monks of St. Peter’s, Shrewsbury,
in the eleventh century. In the fourteenth
century, however, the town was attacked
and burned by the Welsh and the church
destroyed. It was rebuilt and again de-
stroyed in 1644, during the Civil War.
Much of the present church dates from
1873, when the interior was reconstructed.
St. Oswald is also commemorated in the
name of a nearby well which in medieval
times was believed to have curative
properties. Its legend is that after the
battle during which Oswald was killed
his head was hung on a pole by the pagan
victors ; later a large bird carried it off
and dropped it from a great height and
waters gushed up on the spot where it
fell.
Every year during the last week of
June or first week in July large wool sales
are held in Oswestry, when 45,000 to
50,000 fleeces are dealt with. The wool
is mainly from Welsh Crossbred and
Kerry Hill sheep or lambs, and also
includes pure Shropshire and Suffolk
wool.
OSWESTRY'S CHURCH OF ST. OSWALD HAS MANY ANCIENT STONES


fd
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 249 ...
AOE.
The Red Page
PROKOSCH IN AFRICA.
It is strange that, after Conrad’s im-
mortal Heart of Darkness, Frederick
Prokosch should have thought it worth-
while to write Storm and Echo (Faber);
for, generally, a first-rate writer will avoid
a subject which has been handled per-
fectly, leaving it to the second-raters to
trample wide and flat the solitary tracks
of genius, and Mr. Prokosch, in The
Skies of Europe and other novels, has
seemed very close to the first-rate.
Possibly—though this seems very odd
in an author so cosmopolitan and so
civilised —Mr. Prokosch had not read
Heart of Darkness. Possibly he thought
that lie could add something to it, in the
way of precise and factual details about
that African corruption which Conrad,
who rarely steps ashore in his story of
the river journey in search of the back-
sliding Kurtz, was largely content to
indicate in image and symbol. Mr.
Prokosch, who travels in the jungle as
well as by river, does in fact add many
pictures of African horrors to illustrate,
as it were, Conrad’s symbols.
Like The Asiatics, the novel is partly
a travel-book, and each chapter, under
such headings as “The Scorpion,” “The
Frogs,” “The Adders” and “The Ele-
phants,” gives a brief glimpse, beautifully
described, of some aspect of jungle life:
Down at the edge of the pool, their
bodies blurred by the early mist, two bull
elephants were standing; one old and one
young. They filled their trunks with water,
then slowly raised their heads with an air
of meditation, and poured the water down
their throats. They looked utterly unlike
the mild, half-humanised elephants of
India: they were huge, with tiny and
malevolent eyes, immense, nervous ears,
and almost no forehead at all. There was
a dangerously sensitive, capricious air about
them. They flapped their great leafy ears
and strutted lazily up the shore We
could see them more clearly. Their dull,
sagging hides were lightly silvered with the
morning dew. A look of irony, just faintly
irritable, crept into their eyes; they began
tb push one another, with a kind of erudite
playfulness. Then, the older one raised his
trunk in a delicate swanlike movement,
feeling for the unfamiliar scent in the
breeze. They grew alert: their eyes grew
evil. And they turned, with ominous
dignity, and disappeared beyond the trees.
Where Conrad, intensely realistic where
the people aboard his boat are con-
cerned, is content to suggest that the
shore contains inexplicable mysteries,
Mr. Prokosch gives details ; a negro stay-
ing underwater for 20 minutes, a sorcerer
producing a dead fowl and a snake out
of nowhere and materialising around his
head a cloud of moths. For Conrad’s
hints as to negro bestiality, Mr. Prokosch
gives a scene of orgiastic perversion. For
the image Conrad gives of the corruption
of Kurtz, Mr. Prokosch, while leaving
the decadence of his central character
more-or-less to the imagination, as in the
Conrad pattern, leaves nothing at all to
the imagination in his picture of the col-
lapse into primitivism of another Euro-
pean, the sadist and homosexual
D’Estaing.
So much by way of jungle life, then, is
added to Conrad’s river. But it is here,
where it attempts to separate from Heart
of Darkness that Storm and Echo most
conspicuously fails. Mr. Prokosch is
never sure whether he is writing realism
or fantasy. Not one of his principal
characters—four men who are travelling
to a mountain named Nagala—emerges
as a convincing human personality. They
are too much aware that they are sym-
bolically searching for their own souls
for one ever to believe in them as human
beings searching for mountains, butter-
flies and minerals. Becoming, conse-
quently, mere puppets in the author’s
fantasy, their adventures, their quarrels
and their deaths are without dramatic
interest.
Similarly, the horror is piled on so
liberally, so incredibly, that it very quickly
loses all semblance of reality. If Mr.
Prokosch sees a bee one can be quite
certain that he is going to be stung by
it; if he sees a pleasant stretch of river
it will indubitably be befouled by a
dead hippopotamus; if he sees negro
children they will all be dying of malig-
nant diseases; if he sees a monkey it
will mourn for the collapse of European
civilisation. There is hardly a page
on which the words “cancerous,”
“putrescent,” “vomiting,” “ulcer” “poi-
son,” “corruption,” “asphyxiating” and
the like do not appear, and there is
certainly not a single chapter which does
not contain an incident cancerous,
putrescent, sickening, ulcerous, poisonous,
corrupt or asphyxiating.
Mr. Prokosch, perhaps one should add,
is not trying to arouse his readers’ basei
passions; he is trying, most earnestly,
and with a highly moral purpose, to make
them sick \ so that they may see what
he believes to be their own sickness, thus
symbolised in the decay of Africa, “the
forbidden place where man became
man.” But one cannot help recalling that
other travellers, particularly the strange
and stalwart tribe of explorers and
naturalists whom Storm and Echo sets
out, in part, to portray, have found
Africa fascinating; and one cannot help
suspecting that Mr. Prokosch is “piling
it on” beyond all belief, to the point,
indeed, not of the sickening but the
ludicrous. The present reviewer, who
finds it very difficult to be sick at the
printed word and also difficult to share
the abysmal gloom of most contemporary
European writers, found himself gently
reciting, whenever Mr. Prokosch’s hero
got stung by another bee, that excel-
lent ballad of Chesterton’s—or was it
Belloc’s?—it is no use trying to disen-
tangle two writers who have tangled
themselves for eternity—“l think I shall
not hang myself today.”
When the narrative expansions to
Conrad thus fail, one is left with the
parable; and as a parable Storm and
Echo is simply Heart of Darkness over
again. Conrad’s narrator sails up an
African river to find a man named Kurtz
who, as an outstandingly intelligent man,
represents Western civilisation. He has
disappeared, relapsed into barbarism,
gone native. He is found dying and his
spirit vanishes into “the Horror ... the
Horror.” Mr. Prokosch’s narrator travels
by jungle and river to find a man named
Speght who, as an outstandingly intelli-
gent man, represents Western civilisation.
He has disappeared, relapsed into bar-
barism, gone native. He is found dead
on a mountainside, his bones spread out
as if he had been crucified. Conrad
called his story Heart of Darkness;
Mount Nagala, where Speght’s body is
found, is “nearly—as nearly as anything
—the geographical centre of Africa.”
The only essential difference between
the two stories —and it is vital to their
readability as works of art—lies in the
authors’ utterly opposed points of view.
Conrad, whose book is at once a convinc-
ing work of narrative art and a formid-
able warning against Europe’s drift to-
wards primitivism, writes from the out-
side, detachedly. Mr, Prokosch, whose
narrative is not convincing, writes from
inside the present collapse and, to the ex-
tent that he abandons art for parai)le,
partakes in it.
Burns and Caruso.
In The Wonder of All the Gay World'
(Collins), James Barke continues his pro-
jected four-volume 2000-page “novel of
the life and loves of Robert Burns” by
towing the poet all over Scotland like a
prize bull, for similar purposes and, the
series being a best-seller, to considerable
profit. Even the girls Burns doesn’t get
have hungry longings put upon them, as
observe Rachel Ainslie, with whose
brother Burns visited their home:
Long into that May night Rachel Ainslie
tossed and tumbled on her bed. The
frenzied tumult of creation beat against the
walls of her blood; and the pitiless urge
of the lover for the mate, of the mother
for the child, smashed down every mental
barrier so that she bit into her pillow and
wept in her hysteria for what she knew
not
So it may be imagined what Mr.
Barke can make of it when, as with the
full-figured “Clarinda” (Mrs. Nancy
MacLeJhose), Robert really gives them
something to howl about. And what
would Burns say, if he could see, pre-
served so lovingly in the smoking treacle
of this novel, the flotsam of his casual
days? Perhaps he would be amused. It
was said of him that he had a sense of
humor which prevented him from turn-
ing his wide experience into a theory of
free love, as Shelley did—he might
easily laugh at the humorless sympathy
with which he is followed from bed to
bed in what the president of the Burns
Federation calls:
the greatest book ever written on Robert
Burns and one of the greatest in modern
literature.
The assistance of beautiful women at
the birth of poetic masterpieces is a
clause of the Poet’s Licence; nor let it
be said that in this venerable page one
word was ever printed against the con-
tinuance of so ancient a perquisite; for
who would deprive beautiful young
ladies of the pleasure of sacrificing all in
the cause of art? Moreover, there are
times when it may have worked. For
Burns, for instance, with this same
Nancy MacLehose, it produced:
Had we never loved sae blindly,
Had we never kissed sae kindly,
Never met, or never parted,
We had ne’er been broken-hearted
and, it must be admitted, if Burns and
Nancy had not enacted those scenes
which Mr. Barke describes so vividly
from his keyhole, the world might have
been denied this sorry summary, so point-
less, yet so expressive of the feelings of
so many who have been in the same boat.
But if the subject-matter of aphro-
disiac novels were the sole inspiration of
poetry we should have masterpieces
three-a-penny; and Mr. Barke might
rival Sappho. The technique of poetry
is itself an inspiration ; and for Burns
the rhythms of an old song were prob-
ably more exciting than most women:
it is on the technical perfection of a few
little songs, such as “Jamie, Come Try
Me” and “Whistle and I’ll Come to You,
My Lad,” in which his genius has found
or rearranged for an old air words which
dispense with its music, that Burns stands
as one of the finest of the world’s lyrical
poets; and such pieces are not to be
confused with the verses Mr. Barke trots
out for Burns to “croon” to Jean
Armour:
Of a’ the airts the wind can blaw
I dearly like the west.
For there the bonnie lassie lives,
The lassie I lo’e best....
That might be well enough for Harry
Lauder; it is pretty coarse stuff beside;
Jamie, come try me,
Jamie, come try me;
If thou would win my love,
Jamie, come try me.
If thou should ask me, love,
Could I deny thee?
If thou would be my love,
Jamie, come try me
where the girl is not merely alluded to
but caught up in the rhythm. The quality
of such things is beyond ordinary human
emotion; it is in what T. S. Eliot calls
“the aesthetic emotion,” or, as Frank
Theiss puts it in the introduction to his
Neapolitan Legend (Heinemann), a novel
of the early life of Caruso:
The secret of Caruso’s voice lay neither
in his technical prowess, belatedly achieved
as it was, nor in magnificence of tone; in
both he was occasionally equalled, and even
surpassed, by others. Its uniqueness lay
in the fact that this very simple man, who
lacked education in the usual sense of the
word, possessed what most singers only
pretend to possess—a depth of soul that
could be revealed in his voice.
According to this novel, which
“does not treat dates and certain events
with the chronological exactitude re-
quired of a biographer,” the choir-boy
Caruso, his voice unbroken, was taken
up by the stern sister of an admiring
doctor and laboriously taught to speak
pure Italian. During the day he worked
in an engineer’s workshop, and then for
a maker of fountains. His father was a
works foreman and his mother, worn
out with childbearing and domestic
duties, was soon to become an invalid.
A small-time agent and piano-teacher
heard the boy singing in the street and
got him jobs serenading young ladies on
behalf of men-about-town and then a
job singing on the stage of a public baths
and cafe. His mother died ; he had to
give up singing to look after the smaller
children, and the girl he was fond of
married a rich man and bade him a
touching farewell.
Caruso was brought into the army; a
major heard him singing and arranged
to exchange him for his brother Gio-
vanni. Still unable to find a teacher,
Caruso drifted back to the Risorgimento
Baths; there a baritone heard him and
took him to Vergine, a prominent sing-
ing-master, who signed him up on 25
per cent, of any salary he might get for
five years from his first beginning to
earn money by singing.
In a year or so ,Vergine got Caruso an
audition with the theatrical director
Daspuro. Puccini was present. Caruso
lost his nerve and his voice. Later a
chance meeting with the impresario
Zucchi got him a job in a touring com-
pany. His big chance came at Trepani,
when the chief tenor fell ill, and Caruso
was sought all over the town to go on as
Edgar in “Lucia di Lammermoor.” When
they found him he was blind drunk.
They got him on the stage, where his
drunken efforts brought the curtain
down. Another tenor was substituted.
But just as all seemed lost the audience
began to howl for Caruso. He returned,
sang the part splendidly, and Zucchi’
who happened to be present, assured him
a brilliant future.
It is all a little—operatic; such stories
have been written before, and better;
but it has this advantage over Mr.
Barke’s much more ambitious and
factually accurate novel about Burns,
that Frank Theiss shows how an artist is
made by suffering, by love, by his own
and other people’s sacrifices, by chance
and especially by study, whereas Mr.
Barke leaves us doubting whether Burns,
in the midst of so many seductions, could
have found time to write any of his
poems.
Burns and Caruso were both great
singers ; each had “a depth of soul that
could be revealed in his voice,” and of
which he was probably unconscious.
Caruso was lucky to get a biographer
who knew it, but Burns has struck one
who seems as unconscious of it as he
was himself.
R. McC.
Will Lawson Looks Back .
It is just 50 years since I sent my first
verses to The Bulletin from New Zea-
land. Fifty-two years ago I had no idea
of becoming a writer. Engineering wa
my dream or, failing that, something t
do with ships. At fifteen I began t
collect data of steamers in the Pacific
and in 1927 this was published after 1
had crossed the Pacific to complete th
book. Apart from that I had no literar
aims.
Wellington, where I lived, was a smal
place in my boyhood—about 60,000
people. Ihe two main foundries hac
waiting-lists for apprenticeship whicl
would take years to dispose of. So I go
myself a job in a small foundry which
did no castings. No pay was attachec
ior three months, and things went along
till one day I cracked a casting I was
chipping a cog-wheel for a flax-mill
What the boss said was a shame. Nexi
morning 1 had a ring from the manager
of the Union Company to say that his
son, who was junior in the office, was
sick, and would 1 take his job. Would
I • 1 was at the office before eight, and on
the way rang my boss, telling him what
was on. He gave me another free display
of his vocabulary.
From eight till six I worked, booking
freight, then chasing down to the steamers
to pick up boat-notes, from which the
manifests were written and without which
a ship cannot sail. I was happy in those
days. Every day I had lunch on a dif-
ferent steamer, and I soon was known
on the waterfront. Once I almost had a
free trip in a collier for the Coast. Her
skipper had black whiskers. Inspecting
her engines, I forgot that she was due to
sail. When I got on deck she was back-
ing out to get an offing. I tore to her
bridge and told her skipper. His language
was worse than my foundry-boss’s.
“You’ll either jump or come with us
I’m not stopping. Get right aft and jump
when she skims the wharf.”
He was some helmsman, for I just had
to step ashore as her counter slid past the
stringers with a fraction to spare. As I
landed I looked up and he shook his fist
at me, then laughed, showing his white
teeth. Piratical, he looked.
I had another contact with a black-
whiskered skipper when I booked two
lorry-loads of candles by the Takapuna,
which was a crack flier on the Onehunga
run; fifteen knots, no less. That was
going in the early ’nineties! The candles
arrived on the wharf at the very last
moment before sailing and, of course,
delayed the flier’s departure. I hid in the
crowd while the skipper ordered the
hatches to be removed. He had to take
the cargo.
“If I get the son-of-a-gun who booked
this lot I’ll shoot him.”
The lorry-men laughed. They had
bluffed me in the office, being a new-
chum.
As I say, I was happy. In four years
I could go as purser’s gunner anywhere
in the Pacific —and f at that time the com-
pany had 80 steamers. But like a blow
from a sandbag my dream was busted.
And I woke up in the A.M.P., where,
I was told, I would get a pension at 60.
Ye gods, after 43 years of jail! And 80
steamers tearing all around the Pacific.
My father’s reason for shifting me was
that the prospects were better.
I still haunted the wharves, saw my old
acquaintances, who all reckoned I was
mad to leave them. Then one day, while
sticking millions of stamps on to millions
of circulars, I got hold of a poem about
the warship Calliope fighting her way
out of Apia in a hurricane. It thrilled
me. I could not forget its lines. Then I
bought Henry Lawson’s In the Days
When the World Was Wide. That settled
it. I burst into verse about the Mounteds
riding away to the Boer War. It was
printed somewhere —I forget where, be-
cause it soon was overshadowed by some-
thing amazing. I got one into The
Bulletin.
It happened that a new steamer, the
lonic, of 12,000 tons, came into port.
After five o’clock I ran down to Queen’s
Wharf, where she lay, and sneaked on
(Continued on inside back cover.)


TRUTH®IN ADVERTISING"
ST.IOJY HORDERNS
No. 77 —Sunshields in
Demie Amber colour,
Price, £3/3/-.
your eyes
completely and safely with
Polaroid
Protect
'
■
ms.
Stylish Son Glasses
■y.
1
:
■
:
P
ihhi .* i
m
No. 33 —Sunglasses
available in
Flesh colour.
Priced at 42/6,
THE PRINCIPLE OF
LIGHT POLARISATION
SUN
SURFACE
A. —Sunshine reflects as useful
seeing light.
B. —When it strikes a surface,
part is absorbed and part is
reflected.
C. —The reflected part becomes
jumbled up with seeing light
and distorts colour and view.
f
D. —Ordinary sun glasses dark-
en both the reflected and the
seeing light. This causes pupils
to open wider, admitting harm-
ful rays to affect delicate
tissue.
E. —Polaroid lenses actually
absorb what is left of the
reflected light (indicated by
lines) within the lens.
rr? -
m
js>L.
.... : .
No. 66—Sunshields in
various colours. Available
for ladies only. 27/6 pr.
No. 11 —Clip-on Sunglasses
in flesh colour. For
ladies and gents. 42/6 pr.
No. 36 —Sunglasses in
various colours. For ladies
and gents. 45/6 pr.
No. 77 —Sunshields, various
colours. For ladies
.and gents. Price, £3/3/-.
m
French Prismatic Binoculars
A distinctive and very necessary adjunct to sport-
ing men everywhere! Strong but light, they are
8x32 with central rack focus and individual eye-
piece adjustment. Complete in Kodak type solid
leather case, these ideal field binoculars are
priced at £23/5/-. All items — Mail/Phone Orders.
SHOPPERS
DIGEST
BRITISH
THERMOMETERS!
REFRIGERATION
Box wood with
Red spirit column, 7/6.
□
CONFECTIONERY
Metal scale,
wooden handle.
Bin., 17/6; 10in., 23/
df
HOUSEHOLD, 6/6
Plastic Household
Thermometer Avith
Red spirit column.
df
HOUSEHOLD, 9/-
Plastic Household
Thermometer with
Red spirit column.
d
fd
OVEN, 33/6
Metal scale Oven
Thermometer, at 33/6.
fd
HAND-READING
GLASS , 22/6
With metal frame.
2|in., 22/6; Sin., 31/6.
r\
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ JEWELLERY —GROUND FLOOR, PITT STREET.
TELEPHONE: M 2401; ’BOX 2712 C, G.P.O.


The Chifley Government’s
“DEAD” ISSUES
won’t
down
I
mm
i|| v V:
Menzies’ virile policy
has sent the Labor
Socialists running
for shelter....
The undertaking by the joint Opposition to
repeal the Bank Nationalisation Act has been
acclaimed throughout the length and breadth of
Australia as the clearest possible interpretation
of the will of the people. It gives the lie direct
to Labor’s pretence that banking is a “dead”
issue.
Similarly, R. G. Menzies’ pledge that the
Communist Party will be outlawed, that full
supplies of petrol will be assured, that rates
of taxation will be steadily reduced, and that
tax-allowances for dental, medical and educa-
tional expenses will be increased proves that the
Liberal Party never regards as a “dead issue”
anything which affects the welfare of the people.
UNDER LIBERAL GOVERNMENT—
• THE COST OF LIVING WILL BE REDUCED.
• INCREASED PRODUCTION WILL BE
ENCOURAGED BY INCENTIVE PAYMENTS AND
PROFIT-SHARING.
• TOWN AND COUNTRY HOUSING WILL BE
SPEEDED UP.
• MEANS TEST INJUSTICES WILL BE REMOVED.
® THE VALUE OF SOCIAL SERVICES WILL BE
INCREASED.
For your own sake .
VOTE THE
for Australia’s sake ...
SOCIALISTS OUT!
FL76-49.
Authorised by D. M. Cleland, 30 Ash Street, Sydney.


The Bulletin
Vol. 70—No. 3641
Wednesday, November 23, 1949
“DADDY!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971. ,
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
THE KREMLIN TOUCH.
Hundreds of miles from his own elector-
ate, immured in his Kremlin at Canberra
with a recording-machine, Mr. Chifley
poured into it 35 minutes of offhand and
disjointed “policy speech,” most of which
had little relation to the real issues of
the election. There was a Sargasso
Sea of figures in which the mind of the
average listener became waterlogged, and
those parts which referred to the Opposi-
tion had a snarl in every sentence. The
whole was delivered with an air which
suggested that the speaker was on the run.
Mr. Chifley’s speech, so far from being
a “policy speech,” was most distinguished
by the manner in which he avoided dis-
cussion of “Labor’s” real policies. And
the excuse for not delivering it on the
platform in his electorate —he was “too
busy”—was exploded when next day he
was not too busy to fly a thousand miles
to Rockhampton to say some of the things
which he apparently had no relish for
saying in the full glare of policy-speech
limelight.
The subjects which are most in the
minds both of the organisers of the
“Labor” campaign and of the electors at
this election Mr. Chifley chose to ignore.
That the “Labor” party believes socialisa-
tion of industry, production, distribution
and exchange to be the main issue at
every election, the goal towards which it
is working with all speed, despite the
limitations of the Constitution, is shown
by the fact that every “Labor” candidate
is compelled under the party rules to sign
a solemn pledge to support and advocate
it. But Mr. Chifley not only did not
advocate this objective. He avoided
mentioning it as if socialisation were an
improper word.
As a Minister he is, of course, pledged
to guard the Constitution under his
Ministerial oath. But throughout his
speech there was a continuing inference
that wherever the Constitution conflicted
with party policy and with his own
totalitarian ambitions he would do his
utmost by pressure and evasive methods
to make it a dead-letter.
This would have been clear in any
case to any reader of the “Labor” party’s
platform, which provides for a single-
House dictatorship with power to make
its own constitution and to destroy
Federation; but the electors are being
given as little chance as possible to read
the “Labor” platform, and the most strik-
ing fact about Mr. Chifley’s statement to
the wire-recorder was that little which
he said had any relation whatever to the
major planks which he is going into Par-
liament to propagate, any more than it
had any direct relationship to immediate
problems which are engaging the minds
of every man and woman in Australia.
He has nothing to say of petrol-rationing,
which in two States at least, Western
Australia and Tasmania, seems to be the
main election issue, as it may be in other
States before polling-day.
Fresh from the experience of the
disastrous hold-up of the nation in which
he was compelled to use the military to
save the country from ruin and starvation,
he has no measures to offer for dealing
with Communists—“agents of a foreign
Power,” according to Dr. Evatt —whose
leader is in jail for a seditious utterance
and whose tentacles are wrapped round
a dozen big unions which form a
large section of the political “Labor”
party. Indeed, the Prime Minister merely
sneers at the Opposition for presuming
to advocate the suppression of the Com-
munists.
He did not, however, make any refer-
ence to the fact that the Liberals’ war-time
measures to suppress the Communist
party failed mainly because the “Labor”
movement gave them shelter and coun-
tenance and because, even while the
Communist party was illegal, its officials
were allowed to appear on platforms with
“Labor” leaders.
The utter hypocrisy of Mr. Chifley’s
stand on the Communist question is ex-
posed by his own speeches. The rules
of the A.L.P. bar Communists and Com-
munist organisations from the party, yet
Mr. Chifley, as its leader, makes no
attempt to compel their exclusion. At
conference after conference of the A.L.P.
bewildered local branches have brought
forward resolutions for specific action
against Communism, much on the lines
proposed by Mr. Menzies, but in every
case these motions are ditched by the
“Labor” leadership.
The only solution which the Prime
Minister has to offer for the Communist
menace, against which he has been forced
to protect defence facilities on the rocket-
range by the passing of a specific Act, is
based on his opinion that the issue of
Communism is a “bogy,” a “side-issue,”
and that when conditions have been
achieved in which the people are secure
and contented. Communism will be un-
able to survive. Yet he contends that
“Labor” has already provided what
should have been the veiy antidote he
prescribes for Communism:
The “Labor” Government has gone far
towards achieving... .social and economic
security for the people, higher living stand-
ards and the progressive expansion of
Australia as a nation Full employment
has been maintained. The economy has
been strengthened against the possibility
of depression. A wide system of social
services now offers protection to the
individual against misfortunes of unemploy-
ment, sickness and old age. Great head-
way has been made with the migration pro-
gramme. Huge development projects have
been put in hand to open new resources
and provide the foundation for the expan-
sion of all kinds of industries.
These are the Prime Minister’s claims in
his summary of his performances, and all
these prodigies of achievement are put
forward as something unique and made
possible only by the presence in office in
Australia of a super-efficient, super-soft-
hearted, democratic, clear-thinking and
energetic “Labor” Government.
Canada has had a stable Liberal Gov-
ernment for nearly a generation, with
one small break during which its Govern-
ment was Conservative, and its recovery
has been far greater than that of Aus-
tralia. Its employment has been just as
full, or fuller. Its expansion of develop-
ment and production has been infinitely
wider, its immigration schemes have been
larger. Its monetary and exchange posi-
tion is very much better than ours, its
social-service schemes generally equal to,
or ahead of, ours. And it has succeeded
in dealing with Communism.
And yet the Dominion does not
possess a Government which promotes
the class-war and does not frighten
private capital away with the utterances
of Ministers who go about the country
shrieking that Capitalism is collapsing and
they are going to “pluck the fowl” so
that nobody “will ever be able to put the
feathers back.”
All in all, Mr. Chifley’s speech was
well worthy of the method by which it
reached the public. It was the speech of
a robot would-be dictator rather than
of a constitutional Prime Minister. It in-
cluded an undertaking “straight and
honest,” according to the speaker,
that “the ‘Labor’ Government, if re-
turned, will do everything possible
to make Australia a better place
for all Australians” the “every-
thing,” if Labor’s past actions may be
credited as evidence of what they believe
to be good, to include nationalisation of
banking, nationalisation of medicine,
nationalisation by the Commonwealth of
all industry in accordance with the
“Labor” platform so far as it can be
achieved, conscription and regulation of
labor in compliance with the expressed
views of Dr. Evatt, and a social-services
programme under which the people will
presently wake up to find that they are
dependent for all that matters in their
lives upon a class-war bureaucracy which
will give preference to those who vote
the right way.
Combined with his pleas for what
amounts to a completely free hand and
a mandate in which the sky is to be the
limit, the Prime Minister painted a
harrowing picture of the possibility of
the return of a depression in which he
“well remembered that in their thousands,
breadwinners, ill-clad and underfed,
queued at the factory gates seeking
work,” though he did not include vignettes
of the numerous “Labor” stalwarts who
waxed fat during the disastrous period.
He dwelt —but at Rockhampton—on
the perils of peace-time conscription, and
declared that “only in national emer-
gency, as in the last war, would ‘Labor’
give its support to such a proposal.”
But he forgot to mention that compulsory
service had originally been a Labor
plank, and that, during the last war, at a
time of grave national emergency, his
party had fought against it.
It is rarely indeed that a Prime
Minister has fallen so low in his political
standards as Mr. Chifley on this occasion.
The Kremlin touch was evident in every-
thing he said, as it has been in his actions
for a long time. His “policy speech”
—so-called —should serve as notice to
electors that on December 10 they are
faced with their last chance of retaining
traditional Australian constitutional
methods and that the forthcoming elec-
tion is the most momentous in modern
history. In it all freedoms are at stake.
The Wasted Years.
Mr. Chifley’s boasting about his Gov-
ernment’s “magnificent record” begs
some mighty big questions. Facing this
nation as it entered the post-war era in
1946 was certainly a magnificent oppor-
tunity. Alone among the countries
against which the Axis attack had
approached, Australia emerged unscathed.
There was no war damage suffered by any
Australian industry except shipping.
On the contrary, the war was for
Australia a time of industrial boom;
and, when hostilities ceased, the
demand abroad for everything Aus-
tralia could grow or make knew
no limits. Until Britain, Europe and
South-east Asia could get on their feet
again the field was America’s —and ours.
What did the “Labor” Government do
with this opportunity? Here are some
of the particulars in his “full-employ-
ment” record which Mr. Chifley does not
mention:
During the four years 1937-40 the
average number of days lost each year
through strikes and stoppages was 963,128.
During Mr. Chifley’s four years, 1946-49,
the working days wasted were:
1946 1,947,844
1947 1,338,728
1948 2,284,418
1949 (to Aug.) .. .. 2,119,649
Which seems to show that some unions
were not above creating a “pool of un-
employment” of their own.
Apart from actual stoppages of work,
the output denied through slackened pro-
duction during work—variously attributed
to the shortened working week, to unions’
deliberate limitation of output in terms
of man-hour production, and to refusal
to “work for Chifley” because of inci-
dence of taxation on incomes over a
certain level —is inestimable. Output of
steel, which rose to 1,697,000 tons in the
critical war year 1941-42, fell to 1,315,000
in 1948. Measured by 1938-39 output,
these are some of the indexes in basic
lines of production:
Pig-
iron. Steel. Bricks. Coal.
1938-39 .. 100 100 100 100
1945- ~82 90 42.4 103.8
1946- .. 103.5 112.4 69 116.2
1947- .. 111.4 114.8 80.2 120.9
1948- .. 93.7 99.5 86.9 123.9
Yet employed numbers increased within
that period by 39 per cent, and electricity
consumption by nearly 100 per cent.;
and the rise in coal (black-coal) figures
came from new opencut workings. In
the chief source of this essential com-
modity, the mines of N.S.W., output not
only did hot rise, with more miners en-
gaged, but the perpetual unrest through
Communist political agitation denied any
hope of establishing a rhythm in industry
throughout the Commonwealth. The
effect was to rob this country of indus-
trial advantages that were ours for the
taking when the war ended. These have
been years the locusts of Chifleyism have
eaten.
This is not the opinion merely of
political critics. Every economist, even
latterly Mr. Chifley’s own new governor
of the Commonwealth Bank, has been
warning the Government of the penalty
Australia would have to pay for the lack
of planning and drive, for encouragement
of inflation, the dissension gratuitously
fomented by class-war politics. The
economists did not put it quite in those
words, but that is what it amounts to.
Foremost among these economist critics
has been Professor Copland, Mr. Chifley’s
first economic adviser in the Govern-
ment’s early days of post-war planning.
Professor Copland retired from that
post at about the time the Prime Minister
yielded in funk to union demands
and agreed to “unpeg wages” while still
“rigidly controlling” prices—or so it was
pretended. It did not work, and once
wages started soaring inflation got its
real start. Professor Copland wrote on
the latest Chifley Budget in Sydney “Daily
Telegraph”:
In 1945-46 national income was £1284
million, compared with £Bl4 million in
1938-39, and had been fairly stable at that
level for three years. There has been a
rapid expansion since 1945-46 to £1635
million in 1947-48 and to £1955 million in
1948-49.
No one would claim that this increase
represents an equivalent increase in output.
If it did, Australia would indeed have a
sound and prosperous economy.
Australia is prosperous if we use that
term to mean a condition of boom. But
we don’t call it a boom now; it is “full
employment” • • ,
The basis of the boom has been the
fortuitous increase by nearly four times
the pre-war value of our primary ex-
ports, on a volume no greater in the
aggregate than in the years immediately
before the war.
Inflation, getting out of hand, has been
the most notable feaure of the past two
years. During the war prices were fairly
well kept in check. Under the Menzies
Government, up till October, 1941, they
had risen only 10.2 per cent, above pre-
war level, and under Mr. Curtin’s con-
tinuance of the Menzies controls to only
22.1 per cent, by the end of the war. But
by the time the prices referendum was
taken in May, 1948, the increase had
gone to 43.1 per cent, (result of the
Chifley Government’s unpegging of wages
and pressure on the Arbitration Court to
award a shorter working week), and at
that date, as Professor Copland declared
roundly early this year, there remained
“no effective control of prices” under the
Commonwealth transition powers. It
wanted only the Government to with-
draw—as it did—its subsidies (then at
about £45 million a year and rising fast)
to disclose the real hold which inflation
had obtained on “Labor’s” planned
economy. The “No” vote against the
permanent peace-time transfer of controls
to Canberra, which defeated the Govern-
ment’s attempt to grasp these powers, had
not the slightest influence on price-levels,
which were already getting out of hand.
The moral of all the economists’
warnings—namely, that Mr. Chifley’s
“prosperity” could not last without higher
production to match the people’s higher
nominal purchasing-power has been
fully supported by Mr. Chifley’s own
statements to Socialist gatherings from
time to time. To quote them all would
fill this column, but these will serve as a
select list;
In March, 1948, he told the Macquarie
A.L.P. assembly that if Australia’s indus-
trial production were not greatly increased
we “could anticipate economic disaster.”
Broadcasting from London in July, 1948,
Mr. Chifley said the British and Australian
Socialist Governments were standing to-
gether in the “fight fqr economic stability.
Hard work is not only a national
duty, but the stern responsibility of every
Australian if we are to survive.”
Arriving in Australia a week later he
was asked by newspaper reporters if this
meant he thought Australians must work
longer hours. Mr. Chifley answered that
he had “not given any thought to that
aspect,” but that he considered overtime
work inevitable.
In September, 1948, addressing the
miners on the coalfields to. urge them to
do their bit, Mr. Chifley said he had re-
turned from overseas to find Sydney as
blacked-out as Berlin through power
shortages, and that it made him ashamed
to see it.
In March, 1949, in a Press statement,
Mr. Chifley said that “competitive bidding
for labor and scarce materials had already
caused an unhealthy rise of costs. Spending
must be firmly restrained and there must
be all-round efforts to step-up production
per man-hour.” (This was made in counter
to the “Labor” Premier of Tasmania’s
radio comment on the 40-hour week that,
judging by its effects, it had been prema-
ture, but “every effort should be made to
maintain it before too late.”)
The consequences of the inflation
brought about by his own policy may
be applied easily to refute some of Mr.
Chifley’s own boasts. He said that under
his regime amounts of old-age and invalid
pensions, the allowances in permissible
income and value of property held as a
means test of pensioners, also allowances
to widows and child-endowment rates,
have all of them been doubled. This
looks fine without the qualifying fact
(ignored by the Prime Minister) that
during the same period the value of
money has been correspondingly halved.
Matching the industrial go-slow, the
strikes, the wasted years, in which united
national’effort might have assured pros-
perity within our time, is the record of
the Chifley Government’s waste of a
whole Parliamentary working term:
It spent three years in attempts, through
legislation, invalid (as the Chief Justice of
the High Court said) from the outset, to
nationalise banking and destroy the trading
banks, efforts in which it was twice repulsed
by the High Court and once by the Privy
Council.
It spent a year in trying illegally to
nationalise the medical profession, and was
likewise rebuffed By the High Court.
It spent a year in trying to alter the
Constitution to invest itself with permanent
and complete control of all prices, in which
it was defeated by the popular vote, and
thereafter in trying to maintain illegal
control over petrol-rationing, which was
also defeated in the High Court.
Having failed to obtain referendum
approval for a monopoly in air traffic, and
subsequently having attempted to avoid that
decision by squeezing out private enter-
prise, it was in this move also defeated in
the High Court.
There are other challenges at law await-
ing this Government (if it should survive
the elections) from its bid to shackle
shipping and radio-broadcasting com-
panies, and Mr. Chifley knows it.
Apart from the utterly unproductive
waste of Parliamentary time, as illustrated
by this record, what did Mr. Chifley
actually do in Parliament during this past
three years except levy more taxation
than even his lavish expenditure required,
and compose a series of alleged Budget
statements to obscure his revenue sur-
pluses? The answer is that he provided
vastly swollen departmental staffs with
“full employment”—employment with as
little to show for it in the end as though
those engaged in it had been carrying
Mt. Ainslie’s stones to Red Hill, and Red
Hill’s stones to Ainslie,


PLAIN ENGLISH
Country-party Policy.
Like hand with glove, Mr. Fadden’s
policy speech for the Country party fits
neatly with that of Mr. Menzies for the
Liberals.
The prime objective —the effective
repulse of Socialism and Communism in
their parallel aims for a collec-
tivist Commonwealth —was delineated
by Mr. Fadden no less vehemently
than by Mr. Menzies. Upon no
industries does the shadow of socia-
lisation fall with more hostility
than on those off farmers, large and
small; there, too, the “organisation of
scarcity” which is Socialism’s selected job,
the vast inflation of working costs, and
the penalties of overtime wages on top
of the shortened city working week,
afflict every rural industry with special
severity. Only the temporarily inflated
income from wool and wheat exports
stands between the Chifley economy and
swift catastrophe under crazy “prosperity”
standards for which “Labor” rather reck-
lessly claims the credit.
Mr. Fadden had but to mention
the stupid and malignant bungling
over Government - controlled petrol
supplies and distribution to arouse
deep-throated roars of exasperation from
his audience. Incidentally, another
Socialist regulation has been made invalid,
for any practical purpose, by universal
denunciation as soon as it was promul-
gated. To the bureaucratic demand that
farmers should fill in forms to disclose
their petrol stocks as a condition of re-
ceiving rationed supplies, the answer is
a unanimous and contemptuous defiance
of the Government.
The C-P. leader says the joint plan for
national development as sketched by Mr.
Menzies “will start forthwith, and
does not depend on job-finding stunts
for a depression.” This, together with
the pledge to obtain petrol and allow it
to be retailed without rationing or Gov-
ernment fuss and interference, should
itself clinch the Liberal-Country-party
appeal for most rural voters.
Mr. Fadden also declared that a Liberal-
Country Administration would not only
reduce Government expenditure and the
burden of taxation in industry, but also
that it would overhaul and simplify the
taxation-assessment system, which has be-
come a nightmare to every taxpayer. The
special objective in reviewing taxation in-
cidence he justly declared to be that of
checking and turning back the dangerous
inflation of working costs which has,
under “Labor,” reduced the pound-note
to half its value and threatened the
stability of the whole structure of wages
and living standards —as every housewife
knows.
With this launching of the Liberal-
Country-party policy to defeat the sociali-
sation plans of the Chifley Government
and the “production depression” which
the Socialists have already brought about,
every platform-supporter of the cause has
ready to hand the most telling example
of the fate which “Labor” promises for
this country: “Look at what the Socialists
have done to Britain!”
A Chance to Rehabilitate. *
Australians, as the elections approach,
should regard the event which takes place
on December 10 less in the light of a
sort of triennial Melbourne Cup and
more in the spirit of an occasion for
national and spiritual stocktaking. The
future of Australia is gravely concerned.
Over the last decade so many world-
shaking events have occurred that it is
hard for the less analytical human minds
to appreciate exactly what has happened
in politics, economics and the social
structure. Yet what has happened in
Australia has been of a revolutionary and
vitally important character to the indi-
vidual citizen.
The Australian, as an individual, has
become ever so much more subservient
to the Federal Government. That Gov-
ernment, often without mandate, con-
trols his money, his labor and his initia-
tive to a far greater degree than formerly.
Consequently the honesty and administra-
tive ability of such a Government influ-
ences the economic and social destiny
of the individual to an extent scarcely
contemplated hitherto. This is bound to
be the case in any semi-totalitarian
State.
During this political season the Aus-
tralian citizen should think soberly and
conscientiously about national affairs in
a national way. He should realise that
the State can give him nothing that he
and his fellows don’t first of all give the
State. There must be a fair day’s work
for fair pay, with the State taking the
barest minimum. And unless Australians
pull their weight among themselves their
Federated Commonwealth cannot pull its
weight among the nations of our Western
civilisation.
Under the Chifley Government we
have tended to become, as a nation,
opportunists, loafers and mendicants, as
well as frustrates and self-deceivers. Too
many people have been fooled by the
volume rather than the value of the
Chifley pound. Chifley Socialism doesn’t
work. Truth, national self-respect, honest
work and thrift have been casualties of
political opportunism and bad administra-
tion during the Chifley regime.
Too much power has been taken from
the people and not enough responsibility
accepted. It is up to the electors on
December 10 to return to power an
Administration pledged to restore govern-
ment of the people by the people, and
to make it worth while for men and
women to be industrious, thrifty and
home-loving. Unless hard work and
decency are accorded their due rewards
there is chaos ahead.
The Awful Example.
If anyone seeks a monument to
Socialism let him look around him —and
study Britain,
There a Socialist Government, elected
on a socialisation programme —not trying
to put one over on the sly as Chifley has
been doing this past three years—has had
a more-or-less free run. Any difficulties
were not constitutional, but of its own
making, either in faulty estimates or bad
administration. And now look at it!
The country is almost bankrupt, inflation
has run away with the sterling pound,
shortages of food and everything else the
consumer wants are introducing a new
phase of “austerity” beyond anything the
British people have sampled yet —and
now the Socialist crowd is even frightened
of its own policy.
After two years of Parliamentary
manoeuvring in order to beat the House
of Lords’ opposition to the . bill to
nationalise steel —the industry whose
efficiency has been Britain’s chief main-
stay through her lean years—after two
years of boasting about what wonderful
things they would do to steel by turning
it over to State enterprise, Jthe British
Socialist Government has eaten its words
and postponed action until the people at
the general elections next year have pro-
nounced upon it.
The hamstrung, half-starved, desperate
condition of the whole country is the
telling indictment against these bungling
revolutionaries in black Homburgs, and
their caving-in to public opinion on the
steel industry shows that they are wrong
and that they know they are wrong. In
the same way Mr. Chifley knows Aus-
tralia is against him on nationalisation of
the trading banks. But he is not game to
put that question squarely to the electors
even now.
More Vote-bait.
Pollard almost fell over himself with
excitement when he discovered that north-
west N.S.W. farmers would have new
wheat on their hands by election-day,
and he burst forth with an announcement
that the first advance for it, paid on
delivery, would be 6s, bulk and 6s. 6d.
bagged, an increase on first advances of
a shilling a bushel, “the highest advance
yet made on wheat.”
Growers with long memories recalled
the famous Scullin pledge to pay a fixed
price for it back in 1930 or thereabouts,
which didn’t come off. Anyhow, Pollard
says the Government has in mind “the
growers’ heavy commitments for corn-
sacks.”
It also had in mind, though Pollard
didn’t say so, that the wheat vote is im-
portant, that the first of the new wheat
will be harvested in Mr. Scully’s Gwydir
electorate, and, that unless a miracle hap-
pens, Scully is a gone goose.
For their part, the growers can keep in
mind the fact that, in the condition of
the N.S.W. railways, only the early har-
vesters can be assured of silo space in
N.S.W., and that those who will harvest
after December 10 stand a very good
chance of being forced to hold the wheat
on their farms —which isn’t delivery, the
condition of payment.
Still, Gwydir must be saved if possible,
and what’s a deener here and there?
And there’s still time to work out some-
thing for the growers in later districts,
even Joe Langtry’s shaky Riverina. So
never mind the mess McGirr has made
of the railways—vote “Labor,” boys, and
trust in Providence and Reg Pollard!
From His Own Mouth.
A large advertisement in a Sydney morn-
ing paper on November 17 invited every-
body to “See how efficiency increases
supplies and reduces prices.” The invi-
tation was illustrated with three pictures,
one showing men in Elizabethan dress
hacking at a block of wood with an axe,
the next men of the late nineteenth-
century using a crosscut-saw on the job,
the third showing modern workers on a
power-saw.
Readers were asked to conlpare the
“speed of manufacture” 'in the three
pictures, the block of wood being pre-
sumably connected with home-building,
and there followed this statement;
Throughout history, the major advances
in living standards have coincided with the
discovery of new, mechanical working
methods. As laborious hand manufacture
has given way to mechanised production,
the supply of goods for man’s use has
steadily increased. The Twentieth Century
has seen the greatest developments of this
kind, and, today, mechanical methods of
all kinds have brought not only necessities
but also luxuries within the reach of almost
everyone.
There was more to the effect that just
now Australia can’t make full use of
these “modern marvels” because of short-
ages of men and materials, but that if
everybody would do a little more it
would help to improve matters. Which is
true enough.
The advertisement didn’t point out that
the “major advances” were all the result
of the profit motive inspiring men to
invent* and develop machines and methods.
It didn’t say that only free enterprise
brought “not only necessities, but also
luxuries within the reach of everyone,”
or that the people enjoying the highest
living standards in the world are the
people of countries where free enterprise
is the rule. Obviously the writer of the
advertisement thought that would be
(Continued on next page.)
FANCY-DRESS FOR DECEMBER 10.
“Look, Ben—if you can go as Abe Lincoln I can go as George Washington!”


[For election matter David Adams, Cecil
Mann, J. B. Blair and M. H. Ellis, all of 252
George-street, Sydney, are responsible.]
m
craven*
~7iey
redundant and a waste of space, since
everybody knows it.
The advertisement was “authorised by
the Treasurer of the Commonwealth.”
.His name is J. B. Chifley, and he happens
also to be Prime Minister and leader
of a party which is out to destroy free
enterprise and substitute Socialism, a soul-
killing system which would destroy in-
centive and reduce everybody to the
status of a Government dependant.
If Australians allow that sort of life
to be foisted upon them by this “Labor”
Prime Minister there’ll be a rapid end
to progress, invention and development,
and however hard a man works he’ll get
nowhere.
POLITICAL POINTS
From the “Labor” viewpoint the most
disturbing thing about the policy speeches
of Menzies and Fadden must have been
the complete accord shown to have
developed between the two Opposition
parties and the neat piece of carpentering
accomplished in dovetailing the two
speeches together. One of the chief
points “Labor” speakers have been
making at their meetings is the alleged
inability of the Liberal and Country
parties to work together. All wishful
thinking so far as this campaign is con-
cerned.
Fadden described the Chifley policy
speech as “the briefest and laziest exposi-
tion of Government policy ever tossed to
the people.” Brief though it was,
most listeners probably wished that the
portion devoted to long strings of figures
had been briefer still. Wire-recorded and
predicted to last 50 minutes, the speech
petered out at under 35, and to a trained
ear sounded as though portions had been
cut out and the wire tied together again
—in granny-knots.
There was no mention of petrol in
Chifley’s policy speech. To the Prime
Minister petrol isn’t an election issue,
neither is Communism, nor socialisation,
nor the Bank Grab. These are like so
many little men he “saw last night upon
the stair.” They’re not there, but oh!
how he wishes they’d go away.
At the weekend came the first sign
that the Government, despite flat denials,
was beginning to admit that petrol is an
election issue. There had been previous
hints that the regulation freezing private
stocks of petrol might be challenged, and
from the country came reports that
farmers were proposing to ignore the
order to declare their stocks. On Friday
night there was an announcement that
primary producers would be permitted to
use “as much petrol from declared stocks
as they needed for harvesting.” The
climb-down came only 24 hours after
Fadden had repeated Menzies’s pledge to
grant the getting of petrol a first priority.
Election-time cdlds and throat afflic-
tions are the politician’s nightmare.
Menzies was right at the top of his form
just before his voice gave out last week.
He has probably never given a better
election speech than the one he delivered
at Ashfield (Sydney) last Tuesday, and
he still seemed in fine fettle when he
addressed an open-air meeting at Dungog
(N.S.W.) next day. By Thursday night,
when he supported Fadden at Boonah
(Q.), his voice was reduced to a whisper.
The campaign is taking its toll; Chifley’s
huskiness is becoming more pronounced,
and even Fadden, whose throat seems to
be made of fairly durable leather, is re-
ported to be feeling the strain.
McGirr got mighty hot under the
collar because “Menzies has, in a slimy,
slippery way, told the people he is going
to set up the Commonwealth Bank board
if he is returned.” What sort of a way
was it that McGirr used to tell the
N.S.W. people they’d get 90,000 homes in
three years if they elected him, and in
what sort of a way was it that he rushed
in with the 40-hour week in flagrant con-
tempt of the Arbitration Court, and
thereby launched Australia into an era of
underproduction and spiralling costs?
Although there will be several run-
away wins in the Federal elections there’ll
be no walkovers —for every one of the
123 seats in the Reps, at least two candi-
dates have nominated. The total putting
up for the two Houses is 465, which
sounds like a Bradman record. Of these,
115 have set their hearts on becoming
Senators, South Australia topping the list
with 25 would-bes. Putting a number in
every square on a Senate ballot-paper
will be a task calling for staying-power,
and Mr. Informal will probably be the
first to obtain the necessary quota of
votes.
Redistribution has made the task of
predicting election results even more diffi-
cult than usual. Before the 1946 returns
can be used at all the votes cast have to
be dissected and reallocated on the pre-
tended basis that the 123 electorates into
which the Commonwealth is now divided
were in existence at the time of the last
election. On this assumption the 47 New
South Wales seats would, at present, be
held by 32 “Labor” men (including J. T.
Lang) and 15 Liberal or Country-party
members. This means that the Opposi-
tion would have to win nine more seats
to gain a majority in New South Wales ;
it is generally conceded that the party
which can carry the Ma State can win
the election.
Shakiest “Labor” seat in N. S. Wales
seems to be Riverina. On adjusted
figures Langtry holds it at present by 385
votes. In 1946 his opposition was
divided ; this time he has a strong oppo-
nent in Roberton (C.P.). Next comes
Lowe, a new city seat carved out of
Parkes and Martin, whose electors three
years ago gave “Labor” a slender majority
of 549. A swing of less than one per
cent, would lose “Labor” Riverina and
Lowe. A three per cent, change would
mean that Gwydir (held by Minister for
the Gag Scully), Lawson and North
Sydney had turned Chifley down, “Labor”
Whip Fuller (Hume) and Allan Fraser
(Eden-Monaro) would be unseated by a
four per cent, swing. In 1946 they both
benefited from three-cornered contests,
but they haven’t that advantage this time.
Anderson, V.C., is the challenger in Hume
and Denzil Macarthur-Onslow in Eden-
Monaro. If the Opposition wins those
seats and the swing against “Labor” con-
tinues the next two seats to watch are
Mitchell and Robertson. If the electors
in Mitchell don’t want a “Labor” member
4.8 per cent, of them will have to switch ;
in Robertson, 5.3. A swing of that pro-
portion would give the Liberal and
Country parties the nine seats necessary
to win New South Wales,
The Lang-Labor candidate for Martin
(N.S.W.). describes his occupation as that
of “pest-exterminator.” If he could
guarantee to get rid of a few of the
human variety he’d be a certainty.
This page, B. 9/11/ ’49:
Most fatuous remark of the week: “I
have never had any trouble in getting
petrol in Sydney.” Senator Ashley was the
speaker, and no one disbelieved him for a
moment. Still, if the “Fixer” had left his
Buick in dock and done the rounds of the
Sydney garages in a car or utility without
a Commonwealth Government numberplate
he would have had to tell a different story.
Phoning The Bulletin last week on his
return from Queensland, Senator Ashley
said that it was not his habit to use
Government cars in the city; he always
used his private car for that purpose.
The Bulletin congratulates the Senator
on the excellent example he sets his
Cabinet colleagues and wishes more of
them would follow it. On this informa-
tion it admits that “fatuous” cannot cor-
rectly be applied to that particular remark
of Senator Ashley; “astounding” would
be more suitable.
Mr. Finnan (N.S.W.), the boss Prices
Minister, announced rises of Id. to 3d. a
pound for meat on Monday, in all States
except Tasmania and West Australia.
What the housewife wants to know —and
nobody will answer —is what has become
of things like brains, livers and kidneys,
which before the war butchers often gave
away and which, by their cheapness,
enabled a woman to keep her meat bill
down?*-
A first-class row has broken out in
Queensland over that State’s Govern-
ment lottery and one of those ticket-
selling agencies which do such good busi-
ness. Attorney-General Devries is being
asked to order an inquiry. Two of the
questions flung at him: (a) How many
prizes has the ticket-agency won for it-
self, and ( b ) is it a common practice for
agents tp fill in names of ticket-holders
after the lottery is drawn?
In his appeal for support at the N.Z.
elections, to be held next Wednesday,
Holland, on behalf of the National party,
undertakes to alleviate Socialist “penalties
on thrift” by providing a greater income-
tax exemption for persons who are quali-
fied by age to draw old-age pensions but
who refrain or are barred by means test
from receiving them. That might be an
idea appreciated by Australian taxpayers
over 65 also.
Those who haven’t taken to wearing
rose-tinted Socialist spectacles or haven’t
succumbed to the unreal atmosphere
stake hopes of a change in Maoriland’s
Government on a group of marginal seats
which would be enough to turn the tables
on Socialism in Parliament, where Euro-
pean representation is evenly balanced,
38-a-side, with Labor holding a majority
at the pleasure of the electors in the four
Maori constituencies.
Having promised electors the dirtiest
election campaign on record, Calwell is
doing his best not to let them down. His
speech at the Sydney suburb of Glades-
ville consisted mostly of abuse of
Menzies—“ Bob, the friend of the snob”
—a garbled version of Professor Hytten’s
full-employment paper and Yarra-bank
exchanges with interjectors. A couple of
excerpts: “Menzies proposes to conscript
the kids and cripple the Commonwealth
Bank”; “If the non-Labor parties are
returned to power there will be unem-
ployment, destitution and poverty,”
There was, of course, the routine refer-
ence to Australia’s Abe Lincoln, with a
slight Calwellian variation. The Minister
for Misinformation sees Ben as “a mix-
ture of Abraham Lincoln and Will
Rogers. He comes from the people and
he belongs to the people.” Well, the
people can do what they like with their
own, and if Arthur lives a few more weeks
he may see Abe Rogers rejected by the
people.
Some unkind person is deluging Barton
electorate with an illustrated leaflet en-
titled “The Evatt Mansions.” It accuses
Australia’s Wandering Boy of inhabiting
(a) a two-storied palace set in park-like
grounds in the fashionable Sydney suburb
of Turramurra; (b) a town flat in the Astor
in Macquarie-street, Sydney—flats at the
Astor have recently sold up to £13,000;
(c) a Canberra mansion which is “kept
empty” ; ( d) a “favorite week-ender at
Leura.” It is sad that great men should
be so maligned by the envious. Judging
by the telephone-book the only address
which Dr. Evatt and his brother Clive,
K.C., occupy is a joint one at 307 Forest-
road, Hurstville, in a democratic section
of their electorates.
Concerned with the damage done to
roads by heavy timber transports on the
N.S.W. North Coast, Stephens (C.P.)
asked the McGirr Minister for Conserva-
tion to see if some cash for road repairs
could be handed over to shire councils
out of timber royalties. The Minister
said he thought it was being considered.
What these chaps ought to consider is
ways of making the Federal Treasurer
fork out some of that £l6 million a year
collected in petrol tax and blatantly con-
verted from its proper purpose—road
maintenance and construction —to some-
thing called “social services.”
History walked when W. C. Wentworth
(Lib.) opened his campaign for the
Mackellar seat in the Federal House at
Manly (N.S.W.) on November 16 almost
exactly 130 years after his illustrious
great-grandfather published his Descrip-
tion of New South Wales— the first book
written by an Australian to be printed-
in which he advocated Parliamentary self-
government for the colony. It was
almost precisely a century since the
original W.C.W. was involved in the de-
bates on Earl Grey’s proposals which
brought about the separation of Victoria
from N. S. Wales under the Act of 1850
and the taking of the first steps to
establish sovereign States in Australia.
The latest Wentworth is a fine and
trenchant speaker—on his showing at
Manly he is destined for the top flight
of Parliamentary debaters.
Some enterprising journalist has
analysed the occupations of Federal
election candidates and discovered, some-
what to his own astonishment, that there
are no fewer than 82 land-men seeking
office—“no other occupation approaches
that total/’ One possible reason is that
many of them believe a man would be
safe from rabbits, rabbit inspectors, stock
inspectors, tax inspectors, noxious-weeds
inspectors, arbitration inspectors, fuel-
board inspec—— but why go on?—safe
from them all in Canberra.
In Britain hard facts have forced the
Trade-union Congress to the realisation
that Socialism is not a panacea for all
economic ills. Latest reports say that the
congress is to ask its members to work
longer hours and to accept wage-pegging
for 12 months. The Attlee policy, like
that of Chifley, is based on “full employ-
ment.”
Dedman, speaking in Perth, said “The
Federal Government has no intention of
going any further with the nationalisa-
tion of banking.” Earlier this year he
declared in Parliament that the Govern-
ment intended to pursue its banking
policy whether it should win or lose its
appeal to the Privy Council. Nobody
believes the denials of Chifley or Ded-
man on the point, and the motion of no-
confidence to be decided by the electors
is one that cannot be gagged.
Entertainment as offered by consecu-
tive advertisements in the amusement
column of “Sydney Morning Herald”:
Wake of the Red Witch.
Mr. Soft Touch.
The Doolans of Oklahoma.
The Gallant Legion.
National Art Gallery.
Dr. H. V. Evatt Speaks over 2KY.
What on earth is the Art Gallery doing
among that batch?


SINCE 1847
V
.1
-
MAKERS
OF GOOD WINE
FOR MORE THAN
A CENTURY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Leaving his shore job of chief of the
U.K. services liaison staff in Australia
for seagoing command of Mountbatten s
First Cruiser Squadron in the Mediter-
ranean, Rear-Admiral Charles Pizey will
return to familiar waters —he was flag-
lieutenant to the 2/i.c. Mediterranean
Fleet in 1930. Pizey commanded H.M.S.
Ausonia in the famed Atlantic Patrol for
the opening two years of Hitler’s war,
and for the next year suffered in what
must have been the most unenviable billet
in the naval war —a destroyer bucking
the icy seas and freezing sprays, not to
mention Junkers 88’s and U-boats, of
Russian convoys. He was Chief-of-Staff
to the C.-in-C., Home Fleet, before land-
ing in Australia.
Built like a bulldozer, and with the
same propensity for work, Wallace G.
Pooley last week in Sydney concluded his
12th annual conference of N.S.W. Co-
operative Building Societies. The show’s
original secretary, he has seen it grow,
since 1937, from 400 societies after World
War II to 638 today. No man knows
more about ’em than Pooley, general-
secretary of the body that controls the
whole bang lot in N.S.W. Born in
Auckland (M.L.), he came here as a lad,
and in due course headed off with the
Second Australian Division for Gallip.,
but had his view of the Beach from a
hospital ship, where he was down with
enteric. He was jogging along in Suther-
land Shire Council when the energy with
which he boosted a Cronulla (N.S.W.)
surf-queen contest in 1927 prompted a
newspaper executive to hint he was
wasting his time in local government.
Taking the tip, Pooley got out, and shortly
after was titling himself assistant sales-
manager of a igrge land-selling concern.
Here he laid the foundations for laying
the foundations of the 28,000-odd homes
his show has since built. As well, he
sold his scheme to Victoria so ably that
now that State is coming along nicely with
133 societies. Pooley’s aim is every State
—if driving competence has any bearing
on it, the aim’s achievement is merely a
matter of time.
E. Bate, Victorian State Electricity
Commission’s chief engineer, has returned
to Melbourne from an overseas trip,
which included the biggest burst of spend-
ing ever recorded of any tourist. With
£8,000,000 in his metaphorical pocket he
toured Germany and England looking for
the necessary equipment for the new
Morwell briquetting enterprise, which
will make his State practically independent
of N.S.W. coal strikes. Amopg his pur-
chases were a couple of factories capable
of producing 1,260,000 tons of briquettes
yearly. Bate knows the Reich, having
been there as a student-engineer and
learnt the language, which he hadn’t for-
gotten after 40 years. A contemporary
in the S.E.C. of R. A. Hunt, the new
chairman, he is a Rotary past-president.
j “5 G.R.”: For the information of Old
and Young Diggers, the gallant Major
Allanson, Sixth Gurkha Rifles, who took
a mixed bunch of Australians, Indians
and Maoris to the top of Hill 971 at
Gallipoli, gave them a sight of the
Narrows, the goal of the expedition, and
held on until he was bayoneted, is still
about in England. Boisragan, the V.C,
they met at Cape Helles, is dead; but
in India in recent months I met many
Gurkhas of the Fourth Indian Division
anxious to hear of Australian friends
they met in Africa. Now split, Gurkhas
have some battalions in British service
in Malaya, the remainder in the Indian
Army commanded by Indians. Language
prevents intercourse by correspondence,
but the bond forged on Gallipoli has
tightened. Perhaps the worst wrench
Gurkhas suffer is a privilege they always
enjoyed: the open-sesame of a British
canteen, if only for the comradeship it
offered. It was grand to see them again.
Intense-eyed, huskily-built and as
capable as he looks, Wilfred Sheldon,
Courtaulds’ director newly-arrived from
London, probably owes his presence here
to the banking experience he had before
joining his present firm in 1936. The first
stage of the ambitious project at Tomago,
near Newcastle (N.S.W.), will be the
floating of capital issues to form the new
company. The first factory will produce
high-tenacity rayon-yarn for heavy
vehicle and aircraft tyres; the second,
textile-yarn. Sheldon hopes to substitute
Australian softwoods for Canadian as far
as possible, but the local product’s shorter
fibres are expected to set Courtaulds’
research-men an interesting poser,
Norman L. Forster, of Bundarra
(N.S.W.), had made a name for himself
throughout the world as a breeder of
Aberdeen-Angus cattle. A son of the
T. R. Forster, of Abingdon, who gave the
£30,000 property, Booloominbah, to
Sydney University for the building of
the University College at Armidale, the
breeder began his A.-A. stud in 1918. A
victim of infantile paralysis, he so con-
centrated on breeding that few disciples
of the black-poll cult could equal his
knowledge and memory for pedigrees.
Himself a believer in importing new
blood, his Abingdon cattle carried quality
into the show-rings and on to beef
properties throughout the country. He
had been president of the Aberdeen-
Angus Society, and was a patron when he
passed on last week.
That industrious bibliographer Percival
Serle maintains, at close on 80, the same
passionate interest in cataloguing which
distinguished him when he was honorary
bibliographer to the Public Library in
Melbourne. Following on his Biblio-
graphy of Australasian Poetry and his
Australasian Anthology, he recently pub-
lished his Dictionary of Australian Bio-
graphy. The result of a decade of pains-
taking research, all single-handed, it has
been awarded the Australian Literature
Society’s Medal.
Encountered by Mcßeath having a look
at Tasmania after dog-judging the Mel-
bourne Show, Englishman Hildebrand
Wilson, who judged his first show at 15
and has been doing it for the rest of his
68 years. He’s judged pretty well
wherever dogs are found, in the process
DOGS.
being chewed up quite a bit. A nasty scar
on his nose is a reminder of a bull-terrier
in Birmingham; an American hound did
its best to separate him from his right
arm ; and in Melbourne a St. Bernard
sampled his wrist. Which seems to
prove that there is no correct way to pat
a strange tyke. Owner of oyer 50
champion dogs himself, Wilson is on his
first visit to Australia.
Pretty well every Sydney hotel, guest-
home and flop-house just now accom-
modates its quota of public accountants
and auditors, who have swooped down
on the city for the Australian Congress
on Accounting. The invading forces in-
clude representatives of four English in-
stitutes, led by Gilbert D. Shepherd, past-
president of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants, and F. Sewell Bray, Nuffield
Research Fellow of Cambridge Uni-
versity ; the presidents of two New
Zealand accountancy societies, and a
DIGITS.
couple of hundred balance-sheet weighers
from the other States of the Common-
wealth. Sydneysiders bring the total
congressmen to 1100, In between
luncheons, dinners, civic receptions and
other functions common to all congresses
the figure-men are listening to and dis-
cussing papers on various branches of
their profession, prepared by leading men
in the game. Cliff Andersen, registrar of
the Commonwealth Institute, is the organ-
ising secretary of the show, which is
running along smoothly under the presi-
dency of F. H. Way, sketched here by
Prior. Back in 1903, when he gained his
first diploma, Way was the youngest
accountant in Australia. He’s now presi-
dent of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants in Australia and senioi
partner of Cooper Brothers, Way and
Hardie. He was consulting accountant to
the Davidson Commission on coal, and
in 1938 acted as honorary treasurer of the
British Commonwealth Relations Con-
ference held at Lapstone.
By now there is a pretty general impres-
sion that an election is due. Elections
come and elections go, but Victor Francis
Turner, Chief Electoral Officer for the
Commonwealth, goes on supervising
them, as he has done for the past 15
years. Even before that he knew enough
about the job ; in the Post Office at 14, he
educated himself further at night-school
and shifted to the Customs Department;
by 1914 he was chief clerk of the electoial
administration. Seven years of clerking,
n.iaond-jnH
then he alternated between Queensla
and N.S.W. as Commonwealth Electoral
Officer. In all, he’s sat on three redistri-
bution commissions, the first in Queens-
land the others in the Ma State, the latest
one this year.
. _
As far back as 1909 Captain H. C. C.
Forsvth, staff commander in the
Himalaya, joined a ship Captain Stuart,
his present colleague had just left. Now,
with 40 years sea-time in between, he
takes over the ship Stuart is leaving on
arrival in England. In Hitler’s U-boat war
nnp nf thncf* mnvnv rornmndores the
one of those convoy commodores ine
meandenngs of whose ships Royal Navy
men cursed almost as heartily as they
respected the courage of those manning
them, Forsyth had, as well, his naval share
of World War I Then in the armed
of world war 1. men, in me
merchant-cruiser Drama, he was in at the
kill when the German cruiser Dresden
was hunted from the Falkland Islands
battle, caught, and shelled .0 the bottom
off Juan Fernandez. Next ship was
battleship Royal Oak ; in her he saw the
German Fleet surrender in 1918, before
it transferred to that harbor where, early
in the next German war, Royal Oak col-
lected her finishing torpedo. The R.N.
claimed him again in 1940. Among his
memorable Atlantic convoys was one of
84 ships, with only one lost, and another
when 11 went down in two savage nights
of U-boat-pack attacks, with a full gale
rendering rescue work impossible and
station-keeping a nightmare.
Touched down in Melbourne from
Pakistan, Air Vice-Marshal Roger Atcher-
ley, head of the Royal Pakistan Air
Force. Here to suggest, among other
things, Australia’s supplying his force
with fast jets, Atcherley is the son of a
major-general and knows a thing or two
about speed. He flew in the Schneider
Trophy race in 1928, and the next year
won the famed King’s Cup air-race with
Flight-Lieutenant Stainforth. Four years’
desert flying round Amman, in Trans-
jordan, before getting back in time for
Goering’s minions, whom, as O.C. 219
night-fighter squadron, he helped to belt
over the Channel, over England and back
over where they came from. In the
Norway campaign he was garrison-com-
mander at Narvik, came back for more
Gocring-gouging, then shifted clime to the
Western Desert, as air-officer command-
ing the 211 Group Desert Air Force
which mauled the running Hun through
Tripoli, to Tunis and up to Sicily. Now
a virile 45, he landed his present post
this year.
David Homfrey Richards (“Homfrey
Beale”), who died in Sydney early this
month, had been a versatile Bulletin
contributor over many years. Born at
Walgett (N.S.W.) in 1883, he had his first
poem, “Lights o’ Sydney Town,” pub-
lished in this paper when he was 16.
Between 1900 and 1914 he was a journalist
with the “Worker,” “Farmer and
Settler,” Sydney “Star” (now the “Sun”)
and Brisbane “Truth.” He was sub-
editor of “Truth” at Perth when World
War I broke out. Enlisting with the 12th
Battalion, A.1.F., he later served with the
52nd Battalion in France. On the voyage
back he was associated with another
Bulletin contributor, Harold Mercer, in
turning out a bright troopship magazine
joyously labelled “Homeward Bound.”
Thereafter Richards was proprietor-editor
of the “Walgett Spectator” for a while,
before taking to freelancing in Sydney,
specialising in bush topics ; The Bulletin
printing countless of his “Abo.” para-
graphs and a sheaf of his outback verse.
Harold Blair made something of a hit
when he arrived in New York, possibly
the first Australian native to attract atten-
tion in that cosmopolis of all the nations.
Asked why he did not appear in native
costume, Blair retorted: “If you knew
what Australian aboriginal costume was
you would be glad I didn’t.” Blair had
an opportunity to sing in public shortly
after his arrival, but his negro mentor,
Todd Duncan, advised against it, and he
has gone into training.
Into the Silence:
At 56, in Sydney, E. H. Swift, N.S.W.
Auditor-General. He had a name in account-
ancy circles for being one of the most astute-
minded in that profession. Auditor-General
since 1942, before that he had been Under-
secretary to the Treasurer and Comptroller of
Accounts.
In Melbourne, at 66, John William Crow,
from 1920 till he retired in 1946 a director
of Vacuum Oil. Bachelor of civil-engineering,
and Athenreum and V.R.C. member, he spare-
timed at fostering trans-Pacific goodwill through
committeeship of the Australian-American
Association.
In Auckland (M.L.), at 40, Charles McMillan,
president of the Auckland Journalists’ Union
and one-time “Dominion” man in Wellington.
Latterly he was on the Auckland “Star” (which
paper recently decided not to report addresses
of Communist candidates or accept their ads.
in the coming election); his World War II
experience gave him editorship of the “Star’s”
Diggers’ page.
In Adelaide, at 62, Harold Barlow, Chief
Dairy Instructor with the Dept, of Agriculture
since 1926; from his enthusiastic interest the
State’s dairying industry benefited greatly. A
Hawkesbury Agricultural College graduate, he
was with the 20th Infantry Batt. in World
War I, coming out with his captaincy and M.C.
His specialty was Jersey and Guernsey stock,
on which he judged at several Royal shows,!
including Perth.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Cosmos”: One evening the manager
of the local picture-theatre knocked at
our door and requested the loan of our
small daughter. He explained that the
office-door had slammed shut with the
keys inside, the only means of ingress
being the small aperture through which
tickets were sold. In dressing-gown and
slippers Miss Five was trotted across to
the theatre and carefully pushed through
the aperture. In a trice the door was
open and Miss Five was on the way home
again, clutching the two-bob piece the
manager had bestowed on her. “Lucky
it wasn’t next year,” was her comment.
“I might’ve growed too big.”
* * * *
“Plop”: On germ-warfare the New
York “Herald Tribune” announces that
a quart of easily-made psittacosis-virus
preparation would be enough to infect
7000 million people, or more than three
“ Don't ever you plant snapdragons again in the garden!”
times as many as there are on earth,
Startling indeed, but not to the French
daily “Liberation,” which with quiet
patriotism mentions what could be a first-
rate weapon should we ever start fighting
with wogs. In an article advocating metal
currency, the paper claims that the aver-
age circulating French banknote carries
on its travels upwards of 60,000 microbes
and features tuberculosis staphylococci
and ruder ones. It also tells that micro-
scopes showed these germs dining in
style; on some notes there were speci-
mens of all courses from eggs, fish,
sweets to coffee, nicotine and lipstick. If
the money gets any worse the French
punter will have a good chance of seeing
his bookmaker come out at last in the
plague of boils so regularly wished upon
him.
* * * *
“Zake”: The crowd of men who usually
foregather in the back seat of the feeder
bus that runs from our outer-suburban
station to the remote parts of the district
had got into a discussion on the throwing
of eggs at election candidates. One of
the few who sturdily maintained that it
was a democratic right, and strongly con-
demned those who would put a stop to
it, was someone I hadn’t seen in the bus
before ; but he spoke in modulated tones,
and his general well-kept appearance
seemed to sort ill with his ideas. After
he got off the bus I said to the bloke
sitting next to me, “Well, the Commos
who tossed them at Bob Menzies would
certainly agree with him. But that cove
didn’t look like a Comrade to me.” He
laughed. “He’s no Commo,” he replied.
“That’s Jim Barton-rhe’s just taken over
Johnno’s poultry farm!”
* * * *
“Lawnstob”: Tasmania is laughing at
a revelation of the obsolete nature of some
of its railway system. A man went to
the station at Parattah and requested a
ticket for Glenorchy. It was endorsed
“Parattah to O’Brien’s Creek,” and was
stamped T.M.L.R,—the initials of the
Tasmanian Mail Line Railways, a private
company bought by the Government,
along with its stock of tickets, in the
’seventies.
* * * *
“Sartor”: It must come —the ovcr-the-
shoulder handbag for men. This morn-
ing I counted at least a dozen males using
Army haversacks for that purpose.
There’s a lot to be said for it, particularly
in the tropics. Ever tried to disentangle
the price of a couple of schooners from
the keys, handkerchief, tobacco-pouch,
half a dozen raffle-tickets, pattern of the
material the missus wants matched and
the piece of stickjaw you promised to take
home for the nipper? I have, and with
the mercury at 95, humidity 80, it’s a
messy business. Saw a couple of blokes
in the pub pull their purses out of the
haversack and hand over —quite aJa
femme. As I said, it must come!
* * * *
“Jewel”: I can see the point in repro-
ducing good period furniture —Chippen-
dale and Sheraton pieces that combined
grace with utility—and I’ll admit that the
beauty and usefulness of much of the
brass, china and glassware of other days
bear reproduction. But it staggered me
the other day to find that “old” brass
bedwarmers are now being mass-pro-
duced. I’m wondering now if my great-
grandchildren will have my old rubber
not-water bottle gracing their sitting-
room wall.
“C.Q.”: The first attempt in Mel-
bourne to televise an operation was a
brilliant success. The surgeon, surrounded
by nurses, worked on the patient, making
explanatory observations as the thing
proceeded, and a roomful of doctors,
nurses and pressmen sat in a theatre ad-
jacent and saw every detail on a foot-
wide screen, with frequent close-ups of
the swift and delicate hands making in-
cisions, tying up arteries and doing the
thousand-and-one things for which
modern surgery demands of its exponents
the virtuosity of a violinist. Photos of
the event were printed in all the dailies,
Though full of awe for the marvels of
modern science, I couldn’t help recalling
tire experience of a young nurse of my
acquaintance. At her first operation—
an appendectomy—she was lost in ad-
miration at the speed, sureness and grace
of the performance. The surgeon finished
his hunt and held the quarry up to the
“How long are you in for?"
light. Then she heard him whisper to his
medical offsider “Perfectly healthy,” and
something vanished into the basket.
* * * *
“Craiser”; There is a soul to be found
in officialdom sometimes. When the
Geelong police recently opposed renewal
of the licence of Geelong’s celebrated
Winter’s Wine Cellar at Belmont on the
ground that it wasn’t modern, had an
earth floor, Milestone walls and other un-
conventional features, it seemed a fore-
gone conclusion that the place, which has
been in the Winter family for 80 years,
and attracts visitors from all over Vic-
toria, would be closed down. J. L. Harty,
a member of the Licensing Court, decided
to go down and have a look for himself.
He found that the building was a most
unusual place with its farm surroundings,
that its earthen floor could not be im-
proved on, and that it made for better
drinking conditions than the normal. So
this bit of old Victoria with its Dickensian
flavor has got a new lease of life.
* * * *
“Dick Turpin”: I read of an Auckland
dentist who forced a burglar to confess
by confronting him with his teeth-marks
in a block of cheese and an apple he
had sampled. Seems a low-down trick
to me. If that sort of thing is allowed
to continue the man outside the law'
won’t be able to eat at all for fear his
teeth will betray him. Wonder if they
can prove anything from a beer-bottle
drained in suspicious circumstances?
si: * * *
“Curate’s Egg”: Being every inch a
soldier, I had no hesitation in lending
the prisoner in the guard-tent my Orderly
Stooge’s bayonet for the purpose of open-
ing a tin of bully beef. This task
finished, my charge, unobserved by me,
whiled away the time by practising for a
post-war career of knife-throwing, using
the borrowed sticker and his own hat for
props. Half an hour later the Orderly
Officer recorded his appreciation of the
act on a charge-report, adding destruction
of H.M.’s property to the prisoner’s
already long list of crimes. In due course
a stoppage-sheet against pay was issued,
whereupon the prisoner claimed the
damaged tile, maintaining that, as he had
paid for it, it was his property. The
O.C. ruled that the hat was still H.M.’s
property. Dissenting, the prisoner pro-
ceeded to the C. 0., who awarded him the
disputed cady, but promptly charged him
with being in possession of unauthorised
issue, to wit, two hats, fur-felt, slouch,
khaki. Prisoner then asked to be paraded
to Brigade under the “Redress of Wrongs”
section of A.M.R. and O. When I left
for Discharge Depot the fracas was still
in progress,
* * * *
“Chevroford”: Much ancient Vic-
torian history is revived by the 90th
anniversary of St. Katherine’s Church, St.
Helena, 14 miles from Melbourne. The
tiny fane is an excellent example of early
colonial architecture, and was built by
Major Anthony Beale, who was the com-
mandant of the guard which kept watch
over the last years of Napoleon on St.
Helena. He came to Australia with a
pension and settled first in Tasmania and
then af Fifzroy, Melbourne. Then he
started farming at the new St. Helena,
and when his wife, Rose, died in 1859 he
built the church which was called the
Rose Chapel. It was subsequently re-
named and reconditioned and handed
over to the Anglican diocese to be con-
secrated in 1876 by Bishop Thornton,
first bishop of Ballarat. The major’s
descendant, James Beale, now owns the
property, which is still farmed. The
major also brought from St. Helena
something which has done more to
beautify the rural landscape of Victoria
than any of the beautification schemes of
town councils. They were a few slips
from the willow which wept over
Napoleon’s grave on the lone Atlantic
island. Cuttings from the original trees
on the Beale estate have helped to spread
the willow over hundreds of miles of
streams and rivers,
* * * *
“Norther”: A man travelling from
Sydney arranged to meet his mother in
Grafton (N.S.W.), the mother coming
from Queensland. Owing to delays and
alterations in accommodation, both were
lost as far as the other was concerned,
until the post-office was called in to help.
The telephone people called up every
guest-house and hotel within range and
located the mother within two hours, the
total cost being 2s. 6d. This was when
the Grafton district was crowded with
visitors for the annual Jacaranda Festival;
service and patience are not entirely for-
gotten by public servants.
* * * *
“Irving”; That enterprising Fritz (B,
9/11 / ’49) who accelerated with dynamite
his sire’s progress through the Pearly
Gates and collected only a
sentence for illegal use of explosives
fared better than a Port Arthur convict
who tried to circumvent a move to trans-
fer him to Norfolk Island. Preferring
death, he resourcefully plunged his pick
into the skull of a chain-mate, who was
quite unaware of his destined role in the
outwitting of bureaucracy. Thereupon
the resourceful felon sat down and
hollered loudly for transport to the
gibbet. Red-tape, however, was not so
easily foiled, and chose to charge him
with the lesser crime of quarrelling while
at work. Lacking the material witness
to prove that he and the deceased were
bosom pals and had never so much as
exchanged an angry word, he was found
guilty. The sentence was transfer to
Norfolk Island.
* * • *
“X.S.”: A capital-city mother writes to
the papers bitterly complaining of the
inconsiderateness of people who find her
son’s textbooks and notebooks in the
train and don’t return them, although they
must know he needs them to get through
his exams. As he has jettisoned the
material of scholarship on more than one
occasion the interesting question is not
why the finders don’t return them, but
why he leaves them. He may have an un-
conscious distaste for examinations —
most kids do. Murderers and burglars
seem to have an unconscious desire to be
found out, like the man who rifled a
house recently and left a clue in a
huge bite in a piece of cheese. The detec-
tives had a dental impression taken of the
bite, compared it with various dentures,
found one that exactly fitted a dentist’s
dummy and traced it to the owner. In
this case possibly the subject was merely
a bit more unthinking than his fellows,
but it must have been a psychological
impulse which made a small boy, one of
a gang of five who purloined 300 pennies
from a produce-store at Burnley, scribble
his name on a piece of office-paper.
FROM ABE TO BEN.
“Dr. Evatt said that Mr. Chifley was like Abraham
Lincoln, a great sign and marvel of our day, and
the father of his people.”
To
Mr. Joseph Benedict Chifley:—
Forgive me, sir, for writing stiffly,
But why invoke my name, Abe Lincoln,
Whenever ships of State are sinkoln?
If you had fought a civil war
To wash the black man white in gore,
I bright be brought to understand it.
But grabbing banks! A common bandit,
Gabbling a cash-and-carry mess
To ape my Gettysburg Address,
And letting Evatt call you Lincoln! —
It may suit you. I call it stinkoln.
But that’s the way it seems to be.
When all else fails, they think of me;
When all the little would-be-great
Are hard-pressed to perpetuate
The government OF people, who
Forget what liberty they knew,
BY people, long become exempt
From any feeling but contempt,
FOR people, dwindled from a nation
To twenty experts in dictation,
They send to Williamson’s, to hire
My script, wart, whiskers and attire,
My turn-down collar, string cravat,
Churchwarden coat and stovepipe hat,
And show themselves in public places
Pulling sincerely dismal faces.
And practise saying nothing briefly
(At least that suits you, Mr. Chifley),
And get their friends to shout “It’s Lincoln!”
And hope they’ll manage without winkoln.
Now, though I’m anxious to be fair,
Acknowledging you’re quite sincere
(A virtue all ham actors have),
I’m tired of turning in my grave.
So if you like rehearsing for
Your Nationalising Theatre,
Rehearse; but don’t misrepresent
Yourself, me, and your Government;
Come over here, to Hollywood,
And see them do me as you should;
See Raymond Massey take my part;
If that dismays you, don’t lose heart;
The best in this kind are but tripe—
The dead-pan comic’s more your type.
At any rate, it’s there to think oln,
Your apprehensive friend,
Abe Lincoln.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Becks”: Twenty-five years ago this
week The Bulletin launched a new
paper, the “Australian Woman’s
Mirror” ; the Silver Jubilee “Mirror” is
on sale today. Back in 1924 the “Mirror”
set out to give its readers something a
cut above the servant-girl-marries-duke
stories which comprised the bulk of the
light literature offered to women of the
period. More than that, it encouraged
its readers to become writers, and did it
with such success that today it claims
to be 98 per cent, reader-written. The
Souvenir number contains items by
writers and artists who contributed to the
first issue and contributions from others
who were not born till the “Mirror” was
well out of its swaddling-clothes. The
“Mirror’s” most popular feature is one
which simply could not be written by
professional writers; in little paragraphs
grave and gay it captures and retains the
atmosphere of women gossiping over a
cup of tea. From all over Australia and
New Zealand the pars, pour in to the
“Mirror ” making “Between Ourselves”
a feature unique in journalism.
* * * *
“A.E.S.”: A friend of mine isn’t sure
whether the hoodoo is on him or the
unfortunate horses he backs. He “knew”
the winner of one of the first races in
the Melbourne spring carnival. His
proffered shirt was snapped up by the
books. The gee was leading when it fell;
the field fell on top of it. Off went my
: friend to the trots, picked his fancy and
laid his bet. At that stage the nags were
wriggling in the shafts at the barrier.
Maybe his nag took a look at the other
nags, and then at the distance it had to
run —anyway, it collapsed before the start.
Cup Day came, and he had a hot tip for
the Steeple, Curtains for another good
horse! It might pay the racing-clubs and
owners to get this bloke to switch to
crown-and-anchor. That is; of course, if
the books don’t get there first and set
him up to back all the favorites,
* * * *
“Pongo”: Little change in the build-
ing-trade (B. 2/11/ ’49) ? Then where is
the hod-carrier, who, in addition to erect-
ing scaffolding fnd knocking up mortar,
used to be expected to keep as many as
four brickies, each laying around 750
bricks a day, supplied with bricks, mortar
and water? Where does “B. A. Ker” be-
hold plasterers “running” 18in. to 24in.
ceiling cornices, and steel-trowelling
plaster walls to glass-smoothness? How
long is it since he noticed a carpenter
using a two-handed boring-machine to
mortise plates for tenoned wall-studs?
When did he last see a plumber “wipe”
a joint in a lead pipe, now replaced by
cast-iron? How often does he see
window-glass putty-bedded in sashes?
How long is it since he saw a carpenter
levelling floor-joists, with a 6ft. straight-
edge? How long since he noticed a
mason cutting a moulded cornice-stone,
or a bricklayer with a bolster, cutting
bricks for a circular wall opening? Does
he not notice any difference between the
old-time mortised-and-tenoned door and
the present botched article, butt-jointed
and held together by “wiggle-nails” and
glue adhering to plywood facings? One
could continue ad nauseam to refute
“B. A. Ker’s” claims, but what’s the use
in these days of make-do? As old-time
artisans used facetiously to remark, when
a job was out of perpendicular, “The
ruddy thing is more than plumb.”
* * * *
“Taswegian”; I’m looking forward to
Monday morning ; I’ve got something im-
portant to show the boss. I read today
that you can get through more work if
you have numerous rest periods. It
wasn’t just empty talk, either; it was
backed up by a scientific test. Accord-
ing to the report, men loading pig-iron
into railway trucks averaged 12| tons a
day each, but one man, who was ordered
when to work and when to rest, worked
26 minutes each hour and rested 34 and
loaded 47 tons. It seems that the council
men round our way have known this
scientific fact for a long time. But I
wonder if I can make the boss appreci-
ate it?
* * * *
“Pat”: Lift-drivers are apparently the
latest to present the community with
fantastic regulations. In a city building
I visited there are two elevators
—A serving floors one to six, B seven to
12. My destination was on seven, and
on the ground floor A was invitingly
open before me. I entered and rode to
the sixth floor, alighted, darted round
the corner, climbed three stairs . . .
“Hey,” a loud roar brought me back.
“Thought you wanted six?” “Well,
actually I’m going to seven, but”
“The other lift goes to seven. You can’t
use mine if you’re going past six. Don’t
forget next time.”
X * * V
“Stymie”: We knew that the new
member of our golf-club had a lot to
learn and we were very patient with him,
correcting him gently when he toed the
ball out of a bad lie, failed to count a
complete miss, bashed his putter into the
green after missing a short one, and so
forth. But the limit was reached on
the short thirteenth. He’d hooked his
ball into some bushes flanking a swamp,
and, while he searched, the bank gave
way and he plunged into three feet of
water and ooze. “Hey, what do I do
now?” he demanded when he got his
mouth clear. We disqualified him for
asking advice from his opponents.
* * * *
“F.S.”: The phenomenon was recently
reported of a man who copied a famous
Rembrandt in the National Gallery in
London by making frequent visits, study-
ing the masterpiece and going to his
attic and putting down on canvas what
he remembered of the picture; after six
months he is said to have made a perfect
copy. I have my doubts as to the per-
fection, as there are few artists in the
world capable of making even a passable
copy of a Rembrandt; but there is an
apocryphical note about the story. The
National Gallery has, as far as I know,
never put any restrictions on the copy-
ing of paintings—-I know one Melbourne
artist who has some admirable replicas
of works in the collection. He also has
an excellent copy of one of the Mel-
bourne Gallery’s most famous Old
Masters, made in exactly the same way
as in the alleged case in London. For
some obscure reason the Melbourne
Gallery doesn’t permit Australian artists
the same valuable right as is accorded
to artists by all the important galleries
of Europe. One of the sights of the
Louvre is the spectacle of dozens of
artists making good, bad and indifferent
copies of the collection; Picasso and
Matisse made their livelihood in that way.
Perhaps the Melbourne trustees fear that
an artist might make off with the Van
Eyck and leave his copy and they
wouldn’t know the difference.
* * * *
“Pawang”: According to a “Sun-Pix”
correspondent, hay-fever victims in Mel-
bourne are having a worse time than
usual this year, and they anticipate with
dread and horror the flowering of privet
hedges; and he appeals to all owners of
these suburban features to clip them
before they flower. There is such a
demand for privet from owners of new
houses that the plants are almost as ex-
pensive as Tsar camellias, so there is not
much hope for the allergic in the future
if privet is their trouble. A one-time
martyr myself to allergies of all sorts,
from house-dust to horse-dander, I was
“I could have cried , Mother —nobody noticed
my new hat”
walking along a country road with a girl
one afternoon when she informed me
how much more pleasant it was to be in
Melbourne than in Sydney because of
the absence of wattle-blossom. I was
rather amused, as I knew that the bottom
of the gully just below us was drenched
in the golden flood of the acacia. Just
then we rounded a bend and an enormous
Cootamundra in full flower made its
appearance in the distance. My friend
promptly went off into a paroxysm of
sneezing.
* * * *
“5 G.R.”: We were occupying a
perimeter camp on the Indian frontier
one night. Heavy clouds blotted out the
moon, campfires had died, and the only
sound in the camp came from mules
kicking at their heel-ropes —until the
storm broke with tearing wind and
thunderclaps. The C.O. had brought in
British machine-gunners to stiffen the de-
fence, lines of fire had been laid down,
and we reckoned we were safe from a
Ghazi rush. But he didn’t reckon on
Gurkha hospitality; they plied their
British friends with overproof rum, and
before long they were trigger-happy.
When the storm broke a Tommy woke
up yelling, and rushed over the low stone
wall into no-man’s land, shouting defiance
to the whole of Afghanistan to come on.
A sleepy Gurkha shouted “The enemy
is here,” fired three shots and wounded
the Tommy in three places. Apart from
the fact that the guns opened up as well
and we rushed, revolvers in hand, to
meet the attacker, nothing happened;
but it was fitting that that Gurkha should
win the Indian Army shooting competi-
tion the following year.
“V. Cluse”: Our suburb is being
reduced to a form of madness by a double
invasion—ants and snails. In larders and
pantries nothing is safe from the former ;
in the gardens the latter chew the land-
scape away every night. The result is
that by day you meet husbands who
regard anything sweet with suspicion and
who, at the first signs of a pain in the
tummy, pull from their pockets emetics
and take them on the spot. This is be-
cause wives have
plastered kitchens
with blobs of ant-
poison, which is
mainly a sweet and
sticky goo with a
minute arsenic con-
tent, and a man
never knows when
he’s going to get a
blob on his toast,
nor can he lay the
morning cigarette
down for a moment
without a danger
of it becoming
slightly lethal. On
the other hand, the
place is full of
wives suffering
from a form of
insomnia induced
by being constantly
disturbed by
gardening husbands
who rise at all
hours and go forth
with salt and torch
to attack the snails,
this being the
season of new
young plants.
There are, too, the
households where
the wife is gardener
as well, and the
present plight of
such women, fight-
ing ants in the
kitchen and snails
on the lawn, can
well be imagined. The other night
I was passing along the street
when snails began to fall out of the sky
all around me. Investigation of the
phenomenon revealed a weary lady with
a torch. “I heave ’em out on to the road,”
she confessed. “I couldn’t possibly
squash them. The shock of the fall on
the road dazes them and before they can
crawl back again about seven out of ten
are killed by passing cars.”
* * * *
“Coffee-cup”: I have been saddened
by the apparently insoluble problem of
an office-worker who, by scraping the
edges off his weekly pay, has bought an
accessory model-construction outfit which
should enable him to build bigger and
better models than he can with the outfit
he (nominally his son) already has. He
isn’t game to take the outfit home and
tell his wife he bought it. If he sneaked
the parts in, his wife wouldn’t notice, but
the boy would be sure to blow the gaff.
So there he is, building all the old models
over again at home, and reading in his
office about all the new models he could
be making if only he could combine his
two outfits.
* * * *
“Bo”: Nobody will dispute “Cau-
boy’s” claim (B. 10/8/’49) that “the best
period in English music was in the days
of Byrd and Purcell”—the latter is prob-
ably the sole English composer who
ranks among the great geniuses but he
goes too far in saying that that same
period of English music was “supreme
in Europe.” Byrd was born in 1543 and
died in 1623 ; Purcell lived from 1659 to
1695. Contemporaneous with Byrd was
Palestrina, one of the creative giants
whose work in the contrapurital field was
vast, who brought vocal polyphony to
splendid heights, whose greatest work,
the Missa Papce Marcelli, described by
Pope Pius IV as “comparable to the
music heard by St. John the Divine when
he had his vision of the new Jerusalem,”
was accepted as the prototype for all
future ecclesiastical music in this form,
and whose life-work takes 33 volumes
to compass. Also in that same period
lived the Italian Monteverdi, probably
the greatest composer before Bach
founded the Germanic dynasty which
was to hold undisputed sway for 200
years till it perished with Brahms, and
whose work with the madrigal, the mass
and the requiem were exceeded only by
his compounding music and drama into
the first properly-established opera—his
“Orfeo” set a standard which even
Mozart was to view with great respect.
And what of Dietrich Buxtehude, who
lived in Purcell’s day? As player of and
composer for the organ he was beaten
into second place only by the greatest
one the world has known, J. S. Bach,
who in his youth made a 200-mile winter
journey on foot just to hear Buxtehude
play.
DINNER A LA DINING-CAR.
“Nowhere is the deterioration of manners so pro-
nounced as in our railway dining-cars; yet, owing
to the conditions often prevailing, the faults per-
haps can at times almost be excused.”
—Letter to Sydney paper.
Speeding upon your railway journey far,
It’s possible that sometimes you must wonder
Just why you fail to hear the usual thunder
Of rushing wheels beneath the dining-car.
You look around, then, and note each little
group, .
With each man’s feet around his chair-legs
gripping.
The sound that drowns all else will be the
sipping
And s-s-srping as they bog into the soup.
All but the tyro know the risks incurred
In being near doorways of contiguous coaches
When deadline for the dinner-hour ap-
proachess—
You’re likely to .he trampled by the herd.
They’ve had to cover up all dinners now
While being brought in, since many of the
waiters . ,
Found they were slyly spearing on the taters
While they were in the middle of a bow.
No need to worry, though, should someone
sneeze
Millions of streptococci in your gravy.
In that way he’s expected to behave; he
Thereby feels, you’ll grant, much more at ease.
And if, in going for the distant salt,
Some warby-looking fellow past you reaches
And dips a greasy elbow in your peaches,
Reflect that, after all, it’s not his fault.
Yet on occasions, it is true, there lurks
The possibility that railway manners
May lead to something quite akin to spanners
Being tossed haphazard into railway works.
I cite the time when elderly Aunt Maud,
Seeing the danger in a diner bolting
Cheese with his knife —a sight to her revolt-
ing— . . ,
Panicked and pulled th’ communication cord.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Taswegian”: The visiting Professor of
Animal Husbandry, noticing a Queensland
cocky feeding his pigs with corn on the
cob, advised him to strip the corn from
the cob and boil it until soft. “They’ll
take only half the time to get fat,” he
explained. The cocky listened attentively,
looked at the pigs, then back to the pro-
fessor, and said “Yair, but, mister, what’s
time to a pig?”
* * * ♦
“Hey You!”: “Bo’s” Wild ’Un Woolley
(B. 26/10/’49) would have far§d better in
a W.Q. town where, the C.P.S. suffering
from a broken leg and no replacement
being handy, the duties of Beak fell upon
two businessmen of the town. Following
ancient custom when the police-station
woodheap got low, Sarge ordered two
cords and took Wobbly Ned for his
quarterly trip to the lock-up. The
arrangement with the C.P.S. had always
been 14 days, but with the two honor-
aries, both of whom were waiting to get
one home on the sarge, the proceedings
were slightly different. The J.Ps. heard
the evidence, delivered a long discourse
on the evils of strong drink, then: “Con-
victed and discharged!” And convicted
and discharged they continued to pro-
nounce until every stick of those two
cords of gidyea had been chopped into
stove-lengths—by the sergeant and the
constable.
* * * *
“Betcha”: Has anybody ever seen a
sheep that has really gone mental?
There’s one round this place that is
“ That's the African deathlock—get out of THAT, Undy!"
quite unmanageable. The animal is not
blind, but it walks into fences and other
objects, then knocks itself up pushing de-
terminedly against them. If a dam hap-
pens to be in its path it keeps going
without pause, and many times has been
near drowning. When it remembers to
be hungry it drops its head and eats any-
thing: horehound, nettles, fat-hen.
bracken-fern —whatever happens to be
under its nose—goes down. The silly
brute can’t be driven, ignores a dog, and
the only way to get it anywhere is to
carry it. Yet it seems healthy enough
otherwise, and is in medium condition.
Can’t understand what can be the cause
—it’s got no overdraft; it doesn’t have to
find shearers, pay shed-hands and classer
through the long spell of wet weather,
nor find enough blasted petrol to get
the shed through.
* * * *
“Os”; Alf looked up from the paper
he’d been reading. “Another o’ these here
beauty contests,” he remarked. “Re-
minds me of the time me uncle Eber-
neezer invented a falsie-detector. It
looked like a black box with a telescope
stuck in it, and when trained on any
suspicious object rang a bell if the
article wasn’t genuine. Uncle said it
was based on the formula x = 2TB, and a
committee of beauty judges decided to
try it out at the contest to find Miss
Drowsalong. On the day, good sorts
lined up from all round the districk. The
first contestant was a real beaut with the
kind of figure you dream about, and
Uncle trains on the detector. Pandemon-
ium breaks out as the bell goes, but the
beaut don’t bat an eyelid. ‘Sez you! ’ she
pipes up as the judges lodge a protest.
‘And who’s going to find out?’ Now
Uncle’s trying to invent a way to prove
his machine is fair dinkum,”
* * * *
“Bo”: After breakfast old Drayton
got out the axes and told Arthur, the
young new hand from overseas, that he’d
want him to give a turn at the grindstone
handle. “Are you going to get a load
of firewood, sir?” he asked. For reply
Drayton pointed to the big ironbark near
the fence at the end of the drive-in from
the roadway, “Going to put a shed up
there, and the tree will be in the way,”
he explained, “so it’s got to come down
—we’ll get on to it this morning.” Arthur
looked up at the towering tree. “It seems
a shame to cut down such a beautiful
tree,” he said. “Couldn’t we transplant
it somewhere instead?”
* * * *
“Billy T.”: The current trend amongst
makers of cameras seems to be to cram
as many gadgets as possible on to an
instrument of minimum size, to take a
picture of the smallest possible dimen-
sions, then feed this back through an
enlarger to get a print you can see. All
this is highly profitable to the makers of
the gadgets, as well as to the manufac-
turers of the superfine developers, papers
and sundry chemicals with the aid of
which some of the operators are able to
turn out work nearly as good as those
views we see in old albums —studies taken
on wet plates with an exposure of 10
minutes or thereabouts. One result of all
this is that a wooden tripod is now seldom
seen outside of cartoons, and it is interest-
ing to notice just how many people do
not know what this once-common article
is. I use one sometimes; if I find a nest
at which I can poke a camera with little
inconvenience to myself and no disturb-
ance of the site to the selection of which
the birds gave considerable care, I’ll rig
up the camera with a string to the shutter,
and if I get a picture I’m pleased, but if
the birds decline to be in it I respect their
point of view and pack up. Then, riding
back with the end of the tripod poking
from my pack, the remarks of casual
acquaintances are interesting. “How’re
they biting?” is the most common; I’m
always willing to answer that, giving the
latest information on the condition of the
river, the mood of the fish, with sidelights
It s just encouragin' blurry laziness gibbin' you breakfas' in bed."
on bait, bindi-eyes and tiger-snakes.
“Been out shooting?” is the next-most-
frequent query, and that’s not so easy;
if I say no they think I’m a liar, and if
I tell the truth and say that I had two
shots at a Willie Wagtail feeding its
young, got it both times but did not
interfere with its domestic occupation,
they reckon I’m barmy. The only bloke
who insisted on knowing what the instru-
ment was got huffy when I couldn’t
answer some obscure problem about
surveying.
* * * *
“Bill N.”: I agree with “O. Hector”
(B. 9/11/ ’49) that the natural lean of a
tree is determined by the inclination of
the trunk and the side which carries the
bulk of the weight above. Yet, felling
Murray-pine with a mobile saw in the
Riverina, I have found that, irrespective
of that, 99 trees out of 100 fall n.-e. Even
in a strong wind there is no variation.
Any theories about it?
* * % *
“Telarb”: At Boigu, in Torres Straits,
there is a relic of the old head-hunting
raids in the shape of the Skull-tree,
where the heads used to be hung to dry.
It is a gnarled, twisted, deformed thing,
as evil-looking as was its purpose last
century. Strangely enough, it is situated
right at the church door. Mission
authorities won’t hear of its being
knocked over. Apparently its associations
were early used in the wedding of Christi-
anity and savagery, and it now stands
as a reminder to the people of what they
used to be. Boigu-islanders have the dis-
tinguishing features of deep bass voices,
and they are by necessity high-steppers,
caused by dragging themselves through
the mud of what is their home. Expert
dugong-hunters, they supply what must
be the larger part of Australia’s supply
of dugong-oil, recognised by some
authorities as excellent'for all chest ail-
ments and recognised by all as about the
world’s worst stuff to swallow.
* -t * *
“Narsty Norm”: In spite of the alleged
rarity of the occurrence, an all-white foal
is always a possibility out of a roan mare
(B. 2/11/ ’49); in fact, it might be said
that the odds were greater with that
coloring than any other. However,
having Mendel’s law in mind, I can’t
accept the statement that the foal was got
by a “brown stallion.” If “Biggest
Mac” will amend his par. to read “brown
stallion with • white markings” Mendel
and I will approve his statement, other-
wise we will award him the title of
“Mitchell Library Musterer” and let it go
at that,
* * * *
“S.E.”: Fizz buzzed into the shed
where Stan was sewing bags. “ ’Day,”
he spluttered. “Can’t stop. Just run over
on the cadge. Trying to get a mob
through. Didn’t know I’d run out till I
started. Ordered it, too. It’s that blasted
store. No better’n when old Selby had it.
Selby’s in town. Did y’ hear? Sick. An’
that brother o’ his is in a new business,
and can’t get supplies. Dunno what the
country’s cornin’ to. Shortages, strikes,
poor materials, high prices, an’ things.
Don’t mind me borrowin’ it, do y’, Stan?
I’m flat out. Gripes, an’ y’ oughter see
me rabbits. Can’t get at ’em, either.
Tommy Dale was gonna help. Remember
Tommy? Bloke with the legs. Got ’em
broke playing football that time. Good
game, too. Better’n cricket. See where
they been playin’ again. Mad playin’ in
this heat. Melted me stack cover yes’dy.
That one Weary made. Useless cow,
Weary. Married that girl from the pub
with the curly hair. Bet they miss her.
Mrs. Bung never was no cook. Hey,
what about gettin’ me that stuff y’ gonna
lend me? Yair, the old bloke reckoned he
married her f’r her figure. Bank-balance,
if y’ ask me. Whatcha makin’ with the
bags? Made meself a cow-rug last week.
Gripes, the cream’s gone off. No feed.
Want rain for the dams, too. Ted’s out
o’ drinkin’-water. Yair, an’ his kid’s just
won a scholarship. Education ’s a good
thing, mind y’, but I never had the time
for it meself. Too flamin’ busy. Well,
cripes, Stan, if y’ ain’t gonna get it for
me, I better go. Bloke can’t wait all day,
y’ know.”
* * * ♦
“Colonial Cove”: Belligerent cross-
breds will turn on a dog while letting
themselves be chivvied along by a very
small human (B. 26/10/’49), yet in the
annals of the Swan River settlement is the
tragedy that befell the Shaw family, of
Middle Swan. . Left to play alone for
only a short time by the riverside, two
small children, one nine, the other six,
were found, on their parents’ return, in
the river. They had been butted over the
brink into deep water by a ram, lately
imported from Van Diemen’s Land.
* * * *
“Shamuseen”: That chap who fainted
on being informed of his hairbreadth
escape from snakebite (B. 9/11/ ’49) was
of poorer calibre than Madu, a Torres
Straits Islander of my acquaintance, who
absentmindedly sat on a specimen of the
only venomous type of reptile in the archi-
pelago. At the time a visiting covey of
biological bigwigs was engaged on re-
search on Madu’s island, and to this
gathering he exhibited the unmistakable
twin punctures. All known remedies were
applied, with no observed change in the
patient’s condition, which led to inquiry
as to when the bite had occurred,
to which Madu replied blandly that he
had been bitten fixe day before. To
startled demand as to why he hadn’t
reported earlier he said indignantly “Aw,
bawss, me bin tchleep!”
* ,* * *
“Naturala”; What termites must make
contact with constantly is their queen.
Within a short time of the workers being
cut off from her, and she from them, the
colony perishes. The first necessity for
the queen is a royal chamber, where,
grown to an enormous size, she lays eggs
constantly. To carry on this egg-produc-
tion she requires plenty of food; which
is brought to her in a predigested state
by the workers. Deprived of sufficient
sustenance she soon dies, leaving the
colony without means of replenish-
ment. As for the workers, when
cut off from their queen they lose
all aim in life and perish almost
immediately. Thus the idea that
a few white-ants carried into a house in
firewood is likely to bring about an in-
festation is quite groundless, the likeli-
hood of a queen being introduced by such
means being so remote as to be regarded
as impossible. Moisture, too, is another
absolute essential; cut off from moisture
the termite perishes. Engaged one time
in pulling down houses on the W.A. gold-
fields, where the termites were really bad,
and buildings, largely of Baltic-pine,
offered a ready prey, I often found where
a colony had started high up in a wooden
wall, but had died off through being
unable to make contact with the earth or
moisture. The young queen, of course,
had reached that high point by flight.
HARE.
From his form he springs,
And the paddock flings
Swift as a dart behind him;
Low on his track,
His ears pressed back,
—Oh, soon the dog won’t find him!
He’s running fine
In one straight line,
The fence of wire beside him:
Six yards to spare
’Tween dog and hare—
His cleverness to guide him.
Eyes opened wide,
He, in his stride,
Just as the dog comes pounding,
As swift as light
Turns to the right,
Over two fence-wires bounding.
The dog shoots on,
The hare has gone—
The dog will never catch him:
The mad March hare —
For brains, I swear,
Sometimes it’s hard to match him.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


“Solitude”: Seventyfiver was sloshing
off some of the day’s dust when the
white-and-brown bird dropped from no-
where and began strutting round his
boots. The old bloke screwed his head
round, wiped some more soap out of his
eyes and gaped. When he went into the
hut the bird followed; then, between
the crackling of the fire and the rattle
of the tea billy, he could be heard re-
peatedly assuring the world that he’d be
damned. Presently he came out with a
handful of grain. “Hey, Sol, come’n see.
This ’ere bird’s got bowyangs on. A
rubber one on one leg an’ this tin one
with V.H.A. forty-eight an’ a whole lot
o’ numbers,” he said wonderingly. “A
homing pigeon that won’t home,” I re-
marked. “The other ring is for mes-
sages.” “Yair? Well, I better send one,
then, t’ let his folks know where he is,
eh?” He wasted all the evening and
nearly a packet of cigarette-papers.
“Arrived here Tuesdee,” he achieved
finally. “Eats wheat. Is safe and well.”
Each morning since then he has fed the
bird, and each night hunts round
anxiously till he finds it. “Still here,” !
remarked a week later, squinting idly at
the pigeon. “But, cripes, you haven’t put
your letter in its garter, have you?”
“Not yet, Sol,” he explained. “His
folks’ll want t’ know how long it takes
him t’ get there, so I’ve left room to
write it. Don’t y’ see, I’ll have t’ put the
time in an’ then give it to him just the
last minute before he starts off.”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: There were about a
dozen of us on the Gippsland road job,
and we were doing all right till the old
foreman left and a new one arrived. He
was a good foreman and knew his work,
but he was also a reformer, and assailed
us with endless reasons why we should
give up our beer, our games of euchre
and nap, our bad language and other
things, accompanied with pleas to come
over on what he called his side in the
fight. After about a week of this I
noticed that Mat had become very silent,
except for whistling gently to himself,
and I began to watch out, knowing that
these signs meant that the big fellow was
up to something. The foreman also
noticed Mat’s apparent thoughtfulness
and began to concentrate on him, doubt-
less recognising him as one whom the
others might follow. The end came one
Sunday morning. We were doing camp
chores and talking of the fleshpots of
Lang Lang, two miles away. The fore-
man was talking to Mat. Suddenly Mat
threw up his arms and said loudly
“Righto, mate, I’ll join your side. A
man’s got t’ die some day, an’ if I’m on
your side when it comes it’ll mean one
less ruddy wowser in the world, any-
how.” It was nearly a minute before it
hit the reformer.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: There’s a steadily-grow-
ing belief along the Murray that the
steamers will make some sort of a come-
back if petrol continues to be short and
the State railways that cross it keep on
being short of coal, rolling-stock and
generally decrepit, physically and finan-
cially. A barge called the Vega is being
converted into a three-decker at Echuca,
and is to be put on a weekly passenger
cruise between Murray Bridge and Ren-
mark. The Gem and Marion are still
on the Mildura-Morgan run, and further
down the Merle does fair business. The
old Invincible is still poking about the
river, and there are others. C. D.
Cameron, a Mildura man, holds that
heavy road-construction costs, with short-
age of plant and labor, and the spread of
secondary industries along the river
mean the return of the boats. It’s a
reasonable enough hope, sentiment apart,
and, water transport being the cheapest
form of carriage known, the pity is that
the river trade was ever allowed to slip
as far as it has. So cheer up, all you old
Murray men, for the beat of the paddles
on the Ninety Mile may be heard again,
and the memories of our youth be
restored to actuality. I don’t know where
Red Louis is, or Tom the Liar, or old
Charlie Hunt, but, dead or alive, they’ll
be hanging about the river somewhere
waiting.
“Wippegong”: The ironbarks are in
flower, and at odd times during the day
a shrill, tremulous screech will draw
your eyes up just in time to catch a flash
of green as a few slim birds hurtle over
and disappear among the pink blossoms.
Disappear is right, for despite their vivid
green—or maybe because of it —they are
lost when they land within the foliage.
They are little lorikeets, midgets of the
“Break it up, boys—here comes the boss.”
parrot clan. As with so many colors in
our landscape, theirs needs the sunlight
to bring out its brilliance, so as soon as
they alight in the tree they are one with
its shadows. But if the wind isn’t swing-
ing the pendulous branches too much
you’ll soon spot the wee parrots, for there
is an urgency about their feeding that
forbids their keeping still, and they
bustle up, down and along the slim
twigs, probing, sipping and generally be-
having as if they, like their superiors,
were forbidden to consume nectar after
six o’clock and had to guzzle while they
could. They provide one of the out-
standing examples of adaptation to en-
vironment. Look into an ironbark blos-
som and you’ll see a stamen-fringed cup
about |in. across and maybe a bit deeper,
wifli a green column standing in the
centre. Around the base of this lies the
nectar ; to remove it easily you’d need a
small brush —and that’s just what the
lorikeet carries, right on the tip of his
tongue. He slips along a flower-laden
spray with a speed that speaks for the
efficiency of this built-in device ; just a
jab at each bloom and it’s done with.
Many of the honeyeaters are similarly
equipped, but it is only in this region,
where these feathery flowers of the gum,
box and bottlebrush type predominate,
that brush-tongued birds are common.
As for how long these took to evolve
that special organ, your guess is as good
as mine.
* * * *
“Blime”: Slogger sent into town for
half a dozen new mattock-handles and
began digging out the rabbits in his
rough paddock. Several weeks later his
"Hullo, m'dear—jush planting a beer-garden."
order went in again for three new handles,
and the following week it was repeated.
Then came Slogger himself into the store.
“Hey, Bill, ain’t you got any decent
mattock-handles?” he scowled. “Some-
thin’ that’ll stand up to a bit o’ work?
Gripes, I’m half me time puttin’ fresh
handles in.” “But those I’ve been sending
you are good hickory handles,” replied
the storeman. “What happened to them?
They shouldn’t split with ordinary work,”
“No, and they don’t split, neither,”
scowled Slogger, “but they wear through,
I tell y’. Only fit f’r women an’ city
blokes. Ain’t y’ got a steel ’andle, or
somethin’ like that?” “Afraid they only
make wooden ones,” said the bloke.
“Where do they wear through?” “Where
me hand slides up ’n’ down when I
swing,” explained Slogger, turning up a
granite palm that was scarred and ridged
with corns into rasp-like corrugations.
“Rubs through ’em in no time. Gripes,
y’d think somebody’d make a man-sized
handle, wouldn’t y’?”
•fc H*
“B. A. Ker”; Grape-stealer and
spoiler though he is, and bringer of lice
into the house in which he nests, the
starling must have one quality recorded
in his favor: a less aggressive creature
doesn’t exist. Even that shocking squib
Brer Rabbit will savage his own brother,
but although I seem to have been associ-
ated with starlings all my life and have
seen them in flocks of from four to
thousands, I can’t recall having seen a
pair fighting. In his scrounging the
“stark” will mingle with sparrows en-
gaged in the same occupation, but still
refrain from throwing his weight about.
Once I observed a pair of hawks “sand-
wiching” a flock of about a hundred
starlings. It was obviously a case for
mass attack —no bird of prey could have
withstood a charge by so many ; instead,
the black birds panicked for several
minutes, then cleverly manoeuvred and
out-generalled the attackers to escape
without loss. But a crow must have got
an incredible shock this afternoon. Not
two minutes after he had flown into a
belt of ironbarks the Kelly came shoot-
ing out, a squawking, savage peewee on
his tail. Twice the smaller bird feinted
attacks, but, though the quarry was head-
ing away in top gear, seemed frightened
to actually strike home. Suddenly a
black smudge came streaking from no-
where ; it didn’t hesitate. I could hear
the thud as the beak struck squarely into
the big cannibal’s back. The starling
was still following up his advantage when
a hill cut off my view. There is nothing
like parenthood to inspire courage,
* * * *
“Ware”: What is the attraction of
sand as a camping-place? Any bushman
knows that the stuff is as hard to sleep
on as the most adamant of clay-flats, it
loses heat so quickly that it is a chill couch
in winter, it gets into the tucker and per-
meates blankets, and sandhill hollows
are natural frost-traps. It’s a red heir in
windy weather, and is merciless in
summer. And yet Brother Boong, who
was quite an authority on camping-out,
loved to light a fire and curl up in a wind-
swept hollow in the middle of a sandhill.
When I’m in sandhill country I look for
a good, hard clay-flat, ride across it, and
take off the packs on the clean apron of
drift sand below the nearest sandhill.
* * * *'
“Old Camp”: How the platypus fares
when a flooded river covers the entrance
to its burrow with 15ft. of water (B.
12/10/’49) can be illustrated by something
I once witnessed on the Coolgardie
goldfield. At Bonnievale a cloudburst
brought such floods that water made its
way into the workings of the Westralia
mine, completely filling the bottom level
at 300 ft. and rising in the shaft nearly to
the 200 ft. level. All miners quit in time
save one Varishetti, who, working alone
in a rise about 30ft. up from the flooded
bottom level, was completely cut
off. He was not drowned ; the air in
the 30ft. rise being forced upwards by
the rising water formed an air-pocket
which prevented the flood reaching him.
Three days elapsed before relief
reached him: supplies being ultimately
taken down through a manway-pass by a
diver wearing regulation apparatus. In
all, Varishetti was confined for 12 days
in his air-pocket, the diver descending
to him on each of the final nine days at
considerable risk.
* * * *
“Mug Gardener”; When I first dag
over my quarter-acre in a Perth suburb
it was about as fertile as a scrap of
Sahara. Even 20 years’ loading of it with
all kinds of organic manures didn’t im-
prove it much: potatoes about as big as
hen-eggs; cauliflowers all leaves ; cab-
bages the same ; and so on. Reason:
though the soil was really over-manured
there were no worms, such being alien
to the Westralian native sand. Then a
few years ago worms appeared, possibly
through the shaking of a few empty
potato-sacks, the grower’s makeweight
soil in the bottom of the sack apparently
carrying a few eggs. Every winter after
that my garden fairly seethed with
worms. And how things did grow!
Single spuds a pound weight; caulies up
to show standard, etc. Although before
the advent of the worms my soil was full
of plant-nourishing material it was not
in a form that plants could readily
assimilate. But it was fine fodder for
the worms, who in their thousands de-
voured it and then returned it, pre-
digested and finely divided, just the right
stuff for the vegetables.
* * * *
“Rooster”; “Billy T.” needs to brush
up on his knowledge of the emu’s habits
(B. 12/10/’49). The hen certainly isn’t
the boss in this case. In fact, she may
be merely one of a harem of five or six,
all using the same nest. M’lord
Dromaius likes to take over incubation
duties. Where the hen is permitted to
sit on the eggs (for about a week) it is
she who is driven off the nest, the male
usually finishing the job, even taking
charge of the chicks for a brief period.
The nesting habits vary considerably.
Sometimes the female does the lot. But
I’ve never heard of a hen emu “belting”
her lord and master to the nest. He’s
just as likely to belt the entire harem
and make off for pastures new.
* * * *
“Bughouse”: Geology divides the past
history of our Earth into six ages: the
Azoic (without life); Palaeozoic (beginning
of life); Triassic ; Jurassic ; Cretaceous ;
Tertiary. These ages were terminated
each in turn by terrific cataclysms, when
the thin crust of the earth, rendered
hollow by the shrinking of the molten in-
terior, bent and buckled under its own
weight, causing earthquakes that uplifted
mountain ranges; stirred the seas from
their beds so that they swept across whole
continents, almost completely wiping out
existing forms of life. These ages again
are divided into periods: it was during
the second, third, and fourth periods of
the Palasozoic Age that the bulk of the
coal measures were laid down, the Car-
boniferous period, when vegetation
flourished so that accumulations of wood,
plants, foliage fossilised into what are
now strata of coal sometimes 60ft. in
thickness. During this period the termite
did not exist, otherwise the geological
story might have been different. It was
not until the seventh Jurassic period,
millions of years later, that ants and bees
( Hymenoptera ) appeared, and it is
assumed that the termite, which so
closely imitated their social systems, also
arrived about the same time; a provision
which made for the creation of soil,
essential for the support of Man, who
was to appear a million or so years later.
“RED,” THE RUSTY ROAN.
W.A.
Rusty Red quadruped
Hardly worth a dime;
Hoary-headed quadruped
Half as old as time.
Weary-legged quadruped
Ages past your prime;
Shambling-gaited quadruped,
Feet can’t keep in rhyme,
Shaggy-haired quadruped
Coated o’er with grime;
Dreamy-eyed quadruped
To wake you is a crime.
Dear beloved quadruped
Staunch-hearted and true;
Raise your head, quadruped,
I’ve an apple for you.
W. E. BROWN.


k
Financial Peace of Mind
Through expert Estate Management during your lifetime —and after
TF you have a problem relating to Estate
Administration, Property or Investment
Management, why not save needless worry
and expense by transferring your responsibility
to the Union Trustee Company?
Mature experience and specialised knowledge
in every sphere of Executorship and Trustee-
ship, backed by almost 65 years of continuous
service, ensure that your affairs will be in good
hands—in safe hands —always. You are
invited to phone or call for a confidential
interview—or write for a complimentary copy
of “Important Facts Concerning Wills,
Executors, Trustees.”
THE UNION TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF
AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1885
333 Collins St, Melbourne; 2 O’Connell St,Sydney; 398402 Queen St,Brisbane; and at Albury,Townsville,Toowoomba and Rockhampton
The only Trustee company having offices each with its own Board of Directors and management in three States —? Victoria, New South Wales and Queensland
The WILD CAT
COLUMN.
Bank of Adelaide
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1940.. 71,393 54 p.c. = 68,750 2,643 1,038,483
1941.. 66,520 5J „ ~68,750 1,031,253
1942 . . 69,519 5J „ „ 68,750 769 1,032,022
Sept.,*
1942 . . 66,541 5J „ „ 65,625 916 1,032,192
1943.. 67,014 5 „ ~ 62,500 4,514 1,036,706
1944 .. 66,216 5 „ ~ 62,500 3,716 1,040,422
1945.. 67,540 5 „ ~ 62,500 5,040 1,045,402
1946 .. 69,585 5 „ „ 62,500 7,085 1,052,547
1947 . . 79,970 5j „ „ 71,875 8,095 1,060,642
From inner reserves, £250,000 .. 1,310,042
1948.. 89,127 7 p.c. = 87,500 1,627 1,312,269
1949 .. 101,675 8 „ ~100,000 1,675 1,313,944
* 12 months.
Where do the big private trading banks
stand today? The Privy Council’s rejec-
tion of the Federal Government’s appeal
against the earlier ruling of the High
Court, declaring nationalisation invalid,
has settled the constitutional or legal
aspect of the question. But that doesn’t
mean that the whole matter has been put
at rest. “Nationalisation is not dead,”
declares the irrepressible Minister for
Transport and External Territories (Mr.
Ward), who, true to the platform of his
party, couples insurance with banking in
this vital matter.
How then can the prime objective of
the Socialists —Government ownership of
the banks —be achieved? By “virile com-
petition,” declared the wily Mr. Chifley,
having lost his “virile” battle-against the
banks in the courts. He hasn’t bothered
to explain exactly what he means by
“virile” competition. It could mean that,
if Labor is returned at the coming elec-
tions, the Treasurer would use the wide
powers which the Banking Act of 1945
gives him to harass the private banks by
a policy of squeeze, and that, over a
period, shareholders would see the value
of their scrip deteriorate in the market.
This is a possibility that no holder of
bank shares can afford to overlook.
The Liberal-Country party intends,
if returned, to repeal the now-ramshackle
Bank Nationalisation Act of 1947, and
to amend the 1945 Act by providing for
control of the Commonwealth Bank by
a small board of directors (of which the
governor of the bank would be chair-
man), subject to control by Parliament.
This would sweep away the exclusive and
potentially dangerous power of one man
(the Federal Treasurer) oyer the governor
and the bank in matters of policy—it is
potentially dangerous because it flings
the door wide open to party-political
dictatorship in money.
Provision is also to be made for
reference to Parliament of any matters of
policy on which the Treasurer and bank
board fail to agree, and to restore to Par-
liament control of the Commonwealth
note-issue, thus giving it power to check
inflation of the currency. In its trading
activities the Commonwealth Bank is to
continue in “fair” and welcome competi-
tion with the private banks —since fair
competition promotes efficiency combined
with good service to the public it
will be welcome all round. The
broad aim is push direct party-
political control of money and banking
into the background, and to re-establish
a more-or-less autonomous central bank
as a credit-regulating member in an other-
wise independent banking system, which
is as it should be in any free and healthy
economy
The private banks have not faltered
in their forward-looking, public-spirited
policy of co-operation with the central
bank, which, under the 1945 Act, is em-
powered to regulate the volume, nature
and direction of their advances, the pro-
portion of their deposits to be frozen on
“special” account, the rates of interest to
be charged and paid on loans and de-
posits, and the volume of their invest-
ments in Qovernment and other securities.
Directives have been issued in relation to
all these matters, the declared aim being
to avoid aggravating existing inflationary
pressures, to which the Government has
been a handsome contributor. No
specific floor or ceiling is established for
dividend rates under the Act, but all the
main factors affecting bank earnings, and
therefore rate of distribution, are con-
trolled.
The 84-year-old Bank of Adelaide,
whose activities are confined mainly to its
home State, was able to show £12,548
more profit last term, despite a rise in
costs and shrinkage in advances. The
£101,675 of profit claimed was 4 p.c. on
shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves
combined), or 8.1 p.c. on capital alone
as against 7.1, 6.4, 5.6 and 5.4 p.c. back
to 1945. The div. was lifted from 7 p.c.
to 8 p.c.
The year’s expansion of £2,247,027 in
deposits, etc., was accompanied by a
shrinkage of £222,735 in advances and
growth of £2,452,597 in low-interest-
bearing liquids—inflationary conditions
have led to liquidity in trade and industry
and economy in use of bank funds:
Paid 1945. 1947. 1948. 1949.
capital £1,250,000 £1,250,000 £1,250,000 £1,250,000
Notes.. 0,489 6,489 6,489 6,489
Deposits,
etc... 13,401,000 16,396,200 19,972,957 22,219,984
Liquids 10,830,443 11,729,106 15,946,837 18,399,434
Advances 4,324,902 6,486,061 6,103,948 5,881,213
Premises,
£tc... 444,297 454,412 453,962 455,232
Other
assets 134,559 81,252 86,968 104,537
Liquids include £8,718,000 on “special”
account with the Commonwealth Bank,
£2,322,241 of Government securities and
£600,000 of Treasury bills. The co. was
thus giving nearly twice as much
assistance to the Government as it was to
trade and industry. The co. is well
equipped to ride any storm that might
be gathering, and to help its customers do
so, too.
The £lO shares paid to £5 each —the
other £5 is a reserve liability callable only
if needed in the event of liquidation—are
priced at £8 18s. in the market as against
£8 10s. a month or so ago. The return
at £8 18s. is 4.5 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
Net tangible cover is £lO 3s. 4d.
United Insurance Co.
To Re- Re-
kept., Profit. Dividends, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1940.. 46,862 9 p.c. = 40,5(00 6,362 520,863
1941.. 51,559 9 ~ „ 40,500 ) „„
To staff fund, £5OOO .. j 526,922
1942.. 60,874 9 p.c. = 40,500 )-,.,.. ......
To staff fund, £5OOO .. f 15,374 542,296
1943. . 61,674 9 p.c. = 40,500 1 1R17 - ...
To staff fund, £5OOO .. ( 16,1 74 508,470
1944.. 66,276 10 p.c. = 45,000 )--.,.
W/o premises, £lO,OOO ..j 11 ’" 76 569,746
1945.. 67,397 10 p.c. = 45,000’
To staff fund, £5OOO .. 7,397 577,143
W/o premises, £lO,OOO ..
1946.. 70,232 10 p.c. = 45,000'
To staff fund, £5OOO .. 10,232 587,375
W/o premises, £lO,OOO ..
1947.. 75,159 10 p.c. = 45,000'
To staff fund, £5OOO .. 15,159 602,634
W/o premises, £lO,OOO ..J
1948.. 92,505 12ip.c.= 56,2501 9 . ......
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. \ 26,205 628,789
Add reserve adjustments, £192,251.. 812,040
1949.. 114,046 12-J p.c. = 56,250 ) 47 ... ... ...
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. j 47,796 859,836
Insurance ranks next after banking and
credit in Labor’s crazy programme of
nationalisation. Both the Privy Council
and the High Court have declared
nationalisation of the banks to be some-
thing outside the limits of the constitu-
tion, the wording of which in relation to
insurance is the same as it is in relation
to banking. To date the Federal Labor
Government has not set up in competi-
tion with private enterprise in the in-
surance field ; but that doesn’t mean that
it won’t, if it is returned to power. In-
deed, the country has the word of a
“responsible” Minister (Mr. Ward) that the
Labor party has something of the kind
in pickle. Certainly the Government has
not categorically Stated its intentions in
relation to insurance; but neither did it
do so in connection with banking at the
1946 elections.
Except for an office in London, mainly
concerned with marine business, this
United co.’s activities are confined to
Australia and New Zealand. Since the
war the management has put a lot more
ginger into the hunt, a number of new
branches have been opened, net premium
income has more than doubled over the
last three years, a tight hold has been
kept upon controllable outgoings, and, of
course, net earnings have shown marked
improvement.
Helped by the continued inflationary
boom, which has bumped up marine
figures and trade inventories, and by the
growth of home and other construction,
the lengthening of payrolls and increase in
the number of motor-vehicles on the
roads, net premium income advanced by
£284,876 last term, reaching a record
£903,160:
Net Pre- Ex- Loss Expense
miums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1925.-297,720 101,465 146,677 34.0 p.c. 49.2 p.c.
1939.. 387,358 206,958 167,683 53.4 „ 40.7 „
1942.. 395,149 165,226 192,517 t 41.8 „ 48.7 „
1944.. 353,561 127,318 185,746 t 36.1 „ 62.6 „
1945.. 366,177 126,182 199,08.41 34.2 „ 64.4 „
1946.. 404,324 141,557 228,629 t 35.0 „ 56.6 „
1947.. 487,569 192,706 256,1891 39.5 „ 52.6 „
1948.. 618,284 247,832 313,564 40.0 „ 50.7 „
1949.. 903,100 329,749 496,990 36.5 „ 55.0 „
t After deducting investment income taxation.
The bigger business cost an extra £4 6s.
p.c. to write, but the loss rate was £3
10s. p.c. lighter, despite the unsatisfactory
nature of third-party risks and the con-
tinued high rate of cargo pilferage in the
ports.
The underwriting surplus was £19,533
stronger at £76,421, equal to 17 p.c. on
capital. Interest and rents turned in
£37,625 (up £1913), or 8.3 p.c. on capital.
The net return from all sources was thus
£114,046 (up £21,541 after allowing for
minor reserve adjustments in 1948), or
25.3 p.c. on capital as against 20.5, 16.7,
15.6, 14.9 and 14.7 p.c. back to 1944.
The div. was kept at 12i p.c., £lO,OOO was
sent to the staff fund, and the £47,796
that remained lifted reserves to £859,836,
which is £409,836 in excess of paid capital.
All that includes provision for un-
expired risks, now shown separately for
the first time at £378,783. This change
in presentation of the figures also shows
up in an unexplained addition, of £192,251
to reserves and a reduction of £130,482
in the amount coming to sundry credi-
tors, etc.:
1945. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital.. £450,000 £450,000 £450,000 £450,000
Creditors* .. 375,112 405,309 438,548 308,066
Government
securities .. 710,890 652,850 652,850 626,740
Cash, book
debts, etc... 514,232 633,602 669,451 682,691
Debentures . . 40,000 40,000 40,000 40,000
Mortgages .. 55,771 66,245 99,811 160,523
Premises .. 118,862 102,645 98,975 155,073
* Including taxation, etc.
The continued expansion of the busi-
ness is again reflected in a net growth of
£56,098 in the book-value of premises.
Financially, the co. is in a very strong
position, which means that policyholders
and shareholders are both well-protected.
The £450,000 of paid capital includes
£325,000 of bonus scrip, scattered during
the 15 flush years to 1927. However,
until returns from investments approxi-
mate more closely to the dividend charge,
a return to gift-giving would be a doubt-
ful blessing. At £l7 7s. 6d. (£l6 15s. a
month or so ago), the £lO shares paid to
£5 each return 3.6 p.c. on a 12£ p.c. div.
basis. Net tangible cover is £l4 11s. per
share,
McWhirters, Ltd. (Brisbane)
Net To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1940.. 37,072 6 p.c. => 33,000 4,072 119,692
1941.. 34,605 6 „ „ 33,000 1,605 121,297
1942.. 40,664 6 „ „ 33,000 7,664 128,961
1943.. 51,715 6 „ „ 33,000 18,715 147,676
1944.. 58,310 6 „ „ 33,000 25,310 172,986
1945.. 65,279 7$ „ „ 41,250 24,029 197,015
1946.. 71,423 7J „ „ 41,250 30,173 227,188
1947.. 70,066 74 „ „ 41,250 28,816 256,004
1948.. 75,189 8 „ „ 44,000 31,189 287,193
1949.. 72,583 8 „ „ 44,000 28,583 315,776
Using shareholders’ funds as a yardstick,
this is Brisbane’s second-largest depart-
ment store. Twenty years ago it was
the store. Then the variety-chain or-
ganisations and others in and around
Queen-street enticed a lot of shoppers
away from the Valley, where McWhirters
is. Of recent years, however, signs have
not been lacking that custom is return-
ing to the Brunswick-street end of the
city, thanks partly to the growth and
spread of population and partly to keen
values and service, which, among other
things, means good buying and attractive
shopping facilities.
Moreover, McWhirters has seized the
opportunity provided by the easy trading
conditions that followed in the wake of
war and the post-war boom to strengthen
its position, financially and otherwise.
Over the last decade the div. has been
cautiously advanced from 6 p.c. to 8 p.c.,
the average being 6.8 p.c., the prop for
capital has been strengthened from 4s. 2d.
to 11s. 4d. per pound share, the extra
money going mainly into stocks, and the
co. is trading well within its own re-
sources. At end July shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves combined) amounted
to 82.8 p.c. of the balance-sheet total.
And the latest accounts suggest that the
management is continuing to follow a
careful and progressive policy in the face
of altering trade conditions. The year’s
turnover increased again for the eleventh
time in succession. But for the first time
during this period gross earnings
(£372,087, down £7880) turned in the
wrong direction. Chief cause was official
cuts in gross margins about half-way
through the term —the Government aims
to indirectly regulate profit through price-
control, which is now more of a hin-
drance than a help to the buyer as well as
the seller. Exes. (£299,504) were got back
£5274, thanks mainly to a cut of £lO,OOO
in provision for taxation (£50,000), wage
and other costs rose sharply. The
£72,583 of profit, second-best during
the last 22 years, was 13:2 p.c. on capital
as against 13.6, .12.7, 12.9, 11.8 and 10.6
p.c. back to 1944.
The contraction of £65,248 in stocks,
which appear at the lower of cost or
market-value, suggests cautious buying
in the face of rising prices:
1940. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital. . £550,000 £550,000 £550,000 £550,000
Overdraft . . 117,097 • 73,654 25,186
Creditors .. 33,837 55,655 64,669 43,061
Tax reserve .. 15,000 83,823 91,719 89,373
Freehold and
plant .. 438,940 400,626 420,200 461,870
Stocks .. 299,380 379,844 505,307 440,059
Book debts .. 113,892 99,448 150,685 135,920
Cash, etc. .. 3,266 86,189 4,419 3,549
Whether the net addition of £41,670 to
fixed assets was on account of new
property or improvements to the old one
the directors’ report doesn’t say. How-
ever, the co. was able to meet the outlay,
dip £62,422 off the outside debts (includ-
ing tax provision) and leave the more-or-
less liquid surplus only £18,461 lighter
at £421,908.
Though the problems of retailing
promise to become more complex during
the current term, there is nothing at the
moment to suggest that the 8 p.c. div. is
likely to be interfered with. Still, over
the last 12 months the market has re-
oriented its assessment of share prices
generally, and has shortened its bid for the
co.’s pound shares from 325. 3d. to 275. 2d.
The return at the lower figure is 5.9 p.c.
on an 8 p.c. div. basis, and the cover
31s. 4d. in net tangibles.
Broken Hill South, Ltd.
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves.
£ £ £
1944 .. 287,244 30 p.c. «= 240,009 2,452,546
1945 .. 384,861 35 „ „ 280,000 2,557,407
Investments written off, £25,125 .. 2,532,282
1946 .. 356,304 35 p.c. = 280,000 2,608,586
1947 .. 1,102,981* 105 „ „ 840,000 2,871,567
1948 .. 949,289 110 „ „ 880,000 2,940,856
1949 .. 1,456,297 130 „ „ 1,040,000 3,357,153
* Includes £419,000 originally provided for War-
time (Co.) fax.
At mid-1947 it was officially reckoned
there was enough pay-ore in the mine to
keep the mill going for about nine years
on a throughput of approximately 300,000


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
62 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
kuv m
sJitU
SANDERS
qgs* files
Correspondence. » n
statements, etc., filed in the
£
"Sanders" can be securely
bound and converted Into a
perfect book of reference at
the end of each n.ontb —or
any other period.
upon applicatic
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE .
ADELAIDE
PERTH
W C. Penfold & Co. Ply. Ltd.
Norman Bros Pty. Lid.
. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
. Docket Book Co (Aust.)
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L.
Barrere brings to rupture sufferers an
entirely new method of control, the
result of 40 years’ practice and im-
provements, proved completely suc-
cessful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the
hand when placed flat upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, hold the intestine
in its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 26q), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
LAKE VIEW & STAR, LIMITED.
( Incorporated in England.)
DIVIDEND No. 65.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the
Board of Directors has decided to recom-
mend at the Annual General Meeting of
the Company to be held on the 14th
DECEMBER, 1949, payment of a FINAL
DIVIDEND of ONE SHILLING AND SIX-
PENCE per share sterling in respect of
the year ended 30th JUNE, 1949, less
United Kingdom Income Tax at NINE
SHILLINGS! in the £ (EIGHT DECIMAL
POINT ONE PENCE per share), the net
amount of Dividend being NINE DECI-
MAL POINT NINE PENCE per share
sterling.
This Dividend makes a gross distribu-
tion of TWO SHILLINGS per share sterl-
ing for the year ended 30th JUNE, 1949.
Subject to confirmation by the Share-
holders the Dividend will be payable on
16th DECEMBER, 1949, to all persons
registered as holders of shares on the Aus-
tralian Register on 17th NOVEMBER,
1949.
The Transfer Books will be closed from
18th to 21st NOVEMBER, both days in-
clusive.
For LAKE VIEW & STAR, LIMITED,
R. D. MORRISON,
Kalgoorlie, Local Secretary.
11th November, 1949.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established J8?8
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS s
c. C. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN 0. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in ail Country Centres
wt&
i
i
m
me.
No. 1 DESIGN: SIZE 3'4J‘* HIGH, 5'7J" WIDE
Place Your Order Now
Orders are now being accepted for WUNDER-
LICH Terra-Cotta Fireplace Surrounds to No. 1
Design (as illustrated) also Surrounds for slow
combustion and Wonderheat Stoves. The glaze
finish is a mottled Cream-Buff.
Ask at local Hardware Stores, call MX 2411 or
write to Box 474 G.P.0., Sydney, for details.
IREPLACE SURROUNDS
OF GLAZED TERRA-COTTA
THE NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia Limited
(Incorporated in Victoria)
With which is united
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK LIMITED
Registered Office:
271 - 279 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
BALANCE SHEET AS AT 30th SEPTEMBER, 1949
LIABILITIES
Authorised Capital—
-10,000,000 Ordinary Shares of £1
each £10,000,000 0 0
Issued Capital—
-3,726,025 Ordinary Shares of £1
each, fully paid •. .. £3,726,025 0 0
4,800,000 Ordinary Shares of £1
each, 12/6 paid .. .. 4,800,000 0 0
£8.526,025 0 0
Paid Up Capital £6,726.025 0 0
Reserve Fund (used in the busi-
ness) 1 5,000,000 0 0
Final Dividend Proposed 235,410 17 6
Balance of Profit and Loss Account 196,501 13 6
Total Shareholders’ Funds £12,157,937 11 0
Deposits, Bills Payable and Other
Liabilities, including Provisions
for Contingencies 146,671,139 13 8
Notes in Circulation 47,491 0 0
Balances due to Other Banks .. 3,296,963 10 8
The Queensland National Bank Ltd.
(in Voluntary Liquidation) .. 2,518,548 110
£164,692,079 17 2
Liabilities under Letters of Credit,
Guarantees, etc. .. 12,243,555 0 8
£176,935,634 17 10
ASSETS
Coin, Bullion, Notes and Cash at
Bankers •
Cheques and Bills of Other Banks
Balances with and due from Other
Banks
Public Securities (at or under
market value)
i. Australian Government Securi-
ties
ii. Other Government Securities
iii. Local and Semi-Governmental
Authorities’ Securities . ..
Special Account with Common-
wealth Bank of Australia ..
Bills Receivable and Remittances
in Transit
£5,189,168 4 7
3,116,646 19 11
565,231 19 10
10,222,034 15 9
1,471,152 4 3
400.431 17 10
56,987,000 0 0
9,762,961 10 S
Loans, Advances and Bills Dis-
counted (after deducting provi-
sion for debts considered bad
or doubtful)
Bank Premises, Furniture and Sites
(at cost less amounts written
off)
All Other Assets
£87,714,627 12 7
£72,891,825 4 4
2,652,838 18 5
1,432,788 1 10
£164,692,079 17 2
Liabilities of Customers under Let-
ters of Credit, Guarantees, etc.
(as per Contra) £12,243,555 0 8
(The Balance Sheet and Profit and
Loss Figures are stated in Austra-
lian Currency.)
£176,935,634 17 10
PROFIT & LOSS ACCOUNT For Year Ended 30th Sept., 1949
To Expenses Head Office, 603
Branches and Receiving Offices
(including Directors’ Fees,
£5,142) £2,865,931 3 8
„ Income, Land and Other Taxes 407,003 10 2
„ Balance, being Net Profit for
the year carried down .. .. 540,133 19 6
£3,813,068 13 4
I
To Amounts written off Bank Pre-
mises £65,000 0 0
„ Dividends —
Interim paid 25th May, 1949 235,410 17 6
Final proposed payable
30th November, 1949 .. .. 235,410 17 6
„ Balance Carried Forward . 196,501 13 6
£732,323 8 6
By Discount and interest earned,
net exchange, commissions
and other income, after de-
ducting interest paid and ac-
crued on deposits, rebate on
bills current at balance date
and appropriations to the
credit of Contingencies Ac-
counts (out of which ac-
counts provisions for all bad
and doubtful debts have been
made* £3,813,068 13 4
To the Shareholders of THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED,
We have compared the above Balance Sheet with the balances on the books at the Head Office
and with the certified returns from the branches. We have obtained all the information and explanations
we have required and we are of the opinion that the Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Account are drawn
up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the Company s affairs and of the results of
the business of the Company for the year according to the best of our information and the explanations
given to us and as shown by the books of the Company.
Melbourne, 28th October, 1949,
S. J. WARNOCK, F.C.A. (Aust.)
J. K. BISHOP, F.C.A.(Aust).
Auditors.
tons crudes p.a. Measured ore
reserves then stood at 1,915,000
tons. At June 30 last they were
put at 1,855,000, and 501,820
tons had gone through the mill
in the two years. Now the life
of the property has been “ap-
preciably” extended, thanks to
the high price of metals, which
has brought a lot of ore in the
Delprat and Kintore sections —
part of the old B.H.P. and Sul-
phide Corp. leases taken over in
1940 and 1943—-into payable
mill-feed.
The market for the co.’s f.-p.
ss. shares, which has followed
the market for the metals, fluc-
tuated between 535. 6d. and 345.
since the beginning of 1949. At
505., the figure last weekend,
the immediate return is 13 p.c.
on the basis of last year’s dis-
tribution (130 p.c.). At June 30
investments (mainly shares in
other cos. in associated and
allied industries) stood in the
books at £3,161,589, and current
assets exceeded current liabili-
ties by £315,086, giving a more-
or-less liquid surplus of
£3,476,675. Allowing for this,
but disregarding plant
(£1,367,965) and the mine
(£303,489), the investor who
looks for his’ money back, plus
7 p.c. p.a. over a period of, say,
15 years, counts on divs. averag-
ing approximately 105 p.c.
Meanwhile the hunt for new
ore deposits continues. Most
promising of these at the
moment is the old Zeehan field
(Tas.), where a lot of drilling,
unwatering and examination of
old working faces, etc., has been
done, but no decision has been
made yet concerning production
—North B.H. is also interested
in this venture. And there is the
possibility of a new lead-zinc
ore-body being located at Little
Broken Hill (about eight miles
s.-e. of the present mine work-
ings), where deep-drilling tests
are presently to be made. Three
possible copper deposits, two on
the Cloncurry field and one at
Mt. Oxide (Q.), are also being
investigated. Most of the area
held under authority to prospect
on the Chillagoe-Mungana field
(Q.) has been discarded as of
no mineralogical interest, fol-
lowing churn-drill tests —old
hands and others in the district
think the co. didn’t go the right
way about things in this area.
It was the rise in the price of
metals and treatment of 27,920
tons more ore that sent last
term’s earnings up with a rush,
London prices for lead and zinc,
which fell following the break
in the New York market in
March and rose sharply after de-
valuation of sterling in Septem-
ber, have moved up and down
in this way;
1948 Lead, ton. Zinc, ton.
June 30 .. .. £9O £75
October 1 .. ..112 92
December 1 .. .. 112 106
1949
January 1 .. ~ 123 106
April 4 .. . . 106 101
June 10 .. 82 78
July 12 .. .. 75A 58
September 9.. .. 87i 634
September 22 . . 122 87
November 11 .. 1064 874
The table doesn’t record all
price changes that have oc-
curred, but does show the major
movements. In Australia, where
about 25 p.c, of the lead and 30
p.c. of the zinc produced is con-
sumed locally, prices are pegged
at £A3S a ton lead and £A4O a
ton zinc. Average overall prices
actually received by the co. for
the last two years were:
Lead. Silver. Zinc.
Year, ton. oz. ton.
June, £ s. d. s. d. £ s. d.
•1948 .. 80 12 5 4 10 39 0 0
1949 .. 101 11 3 53 65 0 0
On the demand side the outlook
for lead and zinc is encourag-
ing, lead being in much the
stronger position of the two.
What will happen to prices is
largely a question of supply and
demand throughout the whole
network of international trade,
in which America is the key fac-
tor at the moment. The back-
ground, however, is very fluid.
v Co.’s treatment and assay
figures compare as follows: —-
Crudes < Assay
Treated.! Lead. Silver. Zinc,
tons. p.c. oz. p.c.
1947.. 278,320 12.8 6.9 11.7
1948.. 236,950 13.0 7.8 12.8
1949.. 264,870 12.9 7.4 12.8
t Sulphides.
Metal contents of the 44,314
tons lead concentrates produced
last term were 32,998 tons lead
and 1,781,8440 z. silver, and of
the 55,593 tons zinc concentrates
29,030 tons zinc. Recoveries
were a shade lower at 96.5 p.c.
lead, 91.2 p.c. silver and 89.6
p.c. zinc.
Declared profit from mining
increased by £388,267 and from
investments by £70,685;
Declared profit—- 1948. 1949.
Mining .. . . £775,678 £1,163,945
Investments ’. . 140,568 211,253
Total .. .. £916,246 £1,375,198
The profit shown in the intro-
ductory table includes £33,000
allowed for depreciation and
£68,927 dropped from some-
where into general reserves, less
£20,828 spent on new plant. The
record £1,456,297 (up £507,008)
was 182 p.c. on capital as against
118 p.c. for the previous year.
The div. was lifted from 110 p.c.
to 130 p.c., making average dis-
tribution over the last three
years 115 p.c. The current term
promises to be another highly
profitable one.
The recent lift in the price of
gold has encouraged Australia’s
premier producer of the yellow
metal, London-controlled Lake
View and Star, operating on
the Kalgoorlie Golden Mile
(W.A.), to pay an extra 2\ p.c.,
making 50 p.c. in all, for the
year to June 30, 1949. It is the
best distribution since 1941,
when war interrupted a run of
50 p.c. divs. The final for last
term (37| p.c., less English in-
come tax of 9s. in the £) is to
go out on Dec. 16. The year’s
profit from mining was £330,935
(down £58,476).
* * * *
Great Boulder Prop., whose
leases lie between Boulder Per-
severance and Lake View at Kal-
goorlie (W.A.), is to pay an
interim 9d. per 2s. stock unit on
Feb. 1, 1950, in respect of the
year 1949. In 1948 an interim
3|d per stock unit swallowed
nearly all the year’s profit, and
no final distribution was made.
Headquarters were transferred
from London to Melbourne
early in 1949 to side-step double
taxation. For the 36 weeks to
Sept. 16 last co. treated 241,193
tons ore for 56,3300 z. fine gold,
an average of 4.67dwt., which is
a bit below run-of-mine ore.
* * * *
At the annual roll-up of Hill
50 in Perth the other day, chair-
man A. E. Weston told share-
holders that they could rely upon
about 500,000 tons of pay-ore
being developed, and that they
could expect a div. of 9d. a share
early in 1950, and, on the basis
of current production, Is. a
share p.a. thereafter, with the
possibility of 6d. being added if
everything goes well. The mar-
ket for the co.’s 4s. shares has
strengthened from 10s. 6d. to
12s. 6d. over the last couple of
months.
* * * *
Adelaide-controlled Australian
Development, N.L., has run into
another patch of specimen ore,
assaying up to Boz. gold per ton,
this time on the 183 ft. sub.-level
on its Noble’s Nob lease at Ten-
nant Creek. The development
suggests a probable extension
to the west of the enrichment
from which some high yields
were previously obtained. Co.’s
ss. shares now fetch 325. 6d. in
the market, as against 21s. 9d. a
few months ago.


$
Jt!
Does your Will express
your present wishes?
It may need revision
Make a point of reading your Will to-day
and ask yourself whether it expresses your present
wishes in the light of changed conditions.
If you desire re-assurance on any of its aspects —or
desire to consider a new plan that will ensure the maxi-
mum benefits for your dependents you should discuss
your problems with a senior officer of Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited.
At the same time you would do well to consider the
advantages of appointing
Perpetual Trustee Com-
any Limited as your
Executor and Trustee
alone or jointly with a
relative or friend.
The Company has more
than 62 years experience
in the management of
Estate of many different
kinds. It can help you
to plan your Estate to the
best advantage of your
dependents and will
provide for its efficient
management, when re-
quired to act.
The new plans you make
should be embodied in your
Will by your Solicitor.
Write for the booklet
describing the Company’s
service.
d
fd
fd
fd
fd
DIRECTORS:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C.
(Chairman) ;
E. R. KNOX;
ALLEN C. LEWIS;
Hop. J. P. ABBOTT ;
D. R. LYSAGHT;
SAMUEL HORDERN;
H. V. DOUGLASS,
Managing Director
A. 0. ARMYTAGB, Manager
•
TRUST & AGENCY FUNDS
UNDER ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £68,000,000
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OF
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES & OTHERS, ADMINISTRATION ETC.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WAGGA WAGGA, TAMWORTH and ORANGE
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Work We Haven’t Done
Mr. Chifley returned to his
story of a “£743-million national
works reserve” in his “policy”
speech. It involved, he said,
6850 projects, and they are
apparently spread through all
States.
When Mr. Chifley first men-
tioned these “reserve works” —
:in his “Report-to-the-Nation”
broadcast of August 21—he said
that the programme had been
expanded by £358 million over
the past two years. The works
were “mainly for the building,
construction and engineering
trades.”
As previous Bulletin refer-
ences have indicated, this talk of
a £743-million “works reserve”
has led many people to believe
that the Federal “Labor” Gov-
ernment has a huge money re-
serve held in readiness against
the onset of a possible depres-
sion. It has nothing of the kind.
If it represents anything at all
beyond the vaguest of blueprints,
the “reserve works” programme
amounts to little more than the
volume of work that has not
beerr done by the Chifley
Socialists during their term of
office, and which needs to be
done in order to rehabilitate our
economy. It is the result of go-
slow, misdirection of manpower,
restriction of private enterprise
and the starving of industry of
essential raw materials and
services by Mr. Chifley’s militant
unionists.
This £743-million reserve is
perhaps best summed up as a
lazy-man’s “reserve”—it’s work
he can do if he ever likes to try.
Governor Phillip, of course, had
a far bigger such reserve when
he arrived in Australia—every-
thing that has been done since
Phillip arrived, plus what remains
to be done in the future, was
Australia’s works reserve then.
But “reserves” of this kind are
only of value when you have a
Government and a people willing
and able to get the work done;
it is the accomplished work that
is of tangible value, not the blue-
print or paper “reserve.”
It is probable, as The
Bulletin has said before, that
Mr. Chifley underestimates the
deficiency of Australia’s public
and private works. If we did
£ 1000-million-worth of work
over the next 12 months we
would probably find that there
were many essential jobs that
still needed doing, and that an
ambitious and progressive
people would soon create new
demands for new goods and
construction activity, Mr.
Chifley is apparently proud of
the work that Australia has
failed to do under Socialism ;
he seems to take the view that
the less work' the nation does
now the safer it will be in the
event of a depression. Nothing
was ever more fallacious. We
are getting to the stage where we
haven’t even efficient tools to
work with by reason of the fact
that we are already in a produc-
tion depression. The country’s
pastoral properties are being
overrun with rabbits because of
lack of wire-netting, and our
steelworks are producing at
under capacity because of the
shortage of coal. Many other
industries are in similar plight.
Another danger presents itself
when Mr. Chifley’s £743-million
“works reserve” is considered.
It is just this: If, in a period
when manpower and materials
are scarce, the Socialist Govern-
ment sets itself out to construct
“national works” such as it has
constructed in the past (for
instance, the present Common-
wealth shipping line, some of the
ships in which have been de-
scribed as having been designed
by a pavement-artist under direc-
tion from the Seamen’s Union),
then the shortage of essential
public and private works may
grow worse at a compounding
rate, since badly-planned national
expenditure and construction
have a habit of obstructing and
slowing - down the country’s
whole industrial activity.
Courtaulds (Aust.), Ltd.
Application-lists for the 250,000
£1 shares being offered to the
public by Courtaulds’ Australian
offshoot (B. 16/9/’49) open on
November 25 and close on or
before December 2. Application-
money is ss. a share, and a large
portion of the total issue has
been underwritten by E. L. and
C. Baillieu and lan Potter and
Co., Melbourne, and Hordern,
Utz and Bode, Sydney. The
underwriters are receiving 7?d.
a share (subject to 3d. commis-
sion payable on subscriptions
from other brokers) on the
2.780.000 shares (out of
6.075.000 ords, to be issued)
underwritten by them,
Papuan Oil-drilling
“Lemon”: A party consisting
of the general-manager of Aus-
tralasian Petroleum, the chief
geophysicist and assistant geo-
physicist of Standard Vacuum
and the chief geologist, the chief
geophysicist and a London-
office representative of Anglo-
Iranian has returned from a
visit to Papua. A conclave of
such technical strength was ob-
viously convened with the ob-
ject of making vital decisions
on the spot, and it should give
shareholders some satisfaction
that they advised that drilling
and exploration are to continue.
Oroi, of “Hissing Gas” fame
(B. 1 /6/’49), is to be abandoned
at the depth of 5516 ft. just
reached. It has entered steeply-
dipping beds, below the heaving
shales, near the axis of the anti-
clinal structure, and it can
safely be assumed that the
Schlumberger electric - logging
carried out recently did not offer
any prospects of oil higher up
in the well.
Of the Australasian Petroleum
Co.’s tests, Oroi is the one
nearest to the Papuan Apinaipi
permit.
Brighter news is contained in
the information that the new
pressure mud-drilling technique
has given highly satisfactory re-
sults. It has been obvious for
some time past to experts that
the older methods of mud-
weighting without pressure had
little chance of conquering the
broken structures and cloaks of
heaving clays, many thousands
of feet thick, which have to be
penetrated in every prospective
oil location in coastal Papua.
The drilling of the test-wells,
already in progress on the
Hohoro and Upoia structures
(which have proved themselves
to be oilmen’s headaches in the
past), is to be pressed on with
the aid of the new pressure-
technique. The same method is
to be used also at Malalaua and
Wana, where any firsthand
knowledge of underground con-
ditions is lacking.
Geophysical surveying is now
to be concentrated in the area
west of the Vailala River up to
Kikoro in order to locate struc-
tures favorable for further dril-
ling. The mouth of the Vailala
River i§ about 140 miles by air-
line n.-w. of Port Moresby.
The senior technical officers in
the visiting party have stated
that they are very satisfied with
the progress made, despite the
delays which they must realise
were unavoidable under the con-
ditions existing. The wells now
drilling, or about to be drilled,
were, they said, important tests
of their localities. Recent geo-
physical work had indicated
possibilities in other areas
hitherto regarded as of uncer-
tain value.
All this must be very hearten-
ing to the shareholders in Oil
Search', who recently have
watched their shares drop to
par. It is to be hoped that the
statement that Vacuum Oil and
Anglo-Iranian intend to furnish
the funds necessary to carry out
the forward programme does not
imply that the Oil Search quota
in Australasian Petroleum will
be reduced through undersub-
scription. Oil Search, however,
has “postponed for the time
being” the issue of 2,100,000
new ss. shares. The suspension
of drilling at Oroi has led to
the cancellation of the under-
writing agreement.
Electronic Industries
A. G. Warner insists that only
incidentally did he come across
likely suppliers of non-dollar
petrol a point which
strengthens the case against the
supine Federal Government, for
considerably more might be un-
earthed in a properly-organised
search. There’s no reason to
doubt Mr. Warner’s point, for
he has things other than petrol
to keep him occupied. Besides
being the Minister for Housing
in Victoria he is both chairman
and managing-director of a
growing radio concern, Elec-
tronic Industries, Ltd., capital
of which will be £602,000 after
the current bonus issue.
Political reasons make this
issue desirable, says ■ Mr.
Warner. It will capitalise
premiums put up by share-
holders in the last three years
under Treasury edict, and so
will make dividends a truer re-
flection of the actual return
on shareholders’ contributions.
This may be a hint that the
dividend will return to a 10 p.c.
rate. Last year’s 12| p.c. in-
cluded a 2} p.c. “bonus” ; and to
pay the same on the increased
capital for a full year would
take all of last year’s declared
net profit (£69,536 in the con-
solidated accounts).
Electronic Industries was
formed only 10 years ago to
take oyer half a. dozen pro-
prietaries, in each of which the
guiding spirits had been Mr.
Warner and H. P. Abrahams.
Under war and post-war con-
ditions the business grew quickly
and has never paid less than a
1\ p.c. dividend to the ords. Of
the three main subsidiaries, two
are engaged in making radios
(Astor, Peter Pan and Monarch
are the trade-names), and the
third carries on a hire-purchase
business for radios, cars and
furniture. Consolidated ac-
counts suggest that hire-pur-
chase may have made the
biggest advance since the war;
this subsidiary (Universal
Guarantee Pty.) has £224,378
paid capital.
For the development of tele-
vision the company has linked
up with the Pye organisation of
Britain as well as Hazeltins, of
U.SA, Mr. Warner says that
whilst television won’t outmode
radio in the “foreseeable future,”
it nevertheless has considerable
market possibilities. On fre-
quency-modulation his sceptical
attitude hasn’t changed since
1945 —and Canberra now seems
to be in agreement after one or
two false starts.
Electronic’s 10s. ordinary
shares will have asset cover of
about 15s. each after the bonus
issue. The latest price of 255.
on ’Change equals 20s. Bd. ex
rights, and the yield would be
4.8 p.c, on last term’s basic 10
p.c. dividend, or 6 p.c. if the
bonus is repeated.
Valley Worsted Mills
This year a new specimen has
bloomed in the balance-sheets
of all the wool-weaving com-
panies. It is a suspense account
called the “averaging-fund” and
was established under instruc-
tions from the price-controllers.
When Mr. Chifley decided to
abolish clothing subsidies at one
blow after his defeat in the
Prices Referendum, the States


BALANCE SHEET
AS AT 30lh SEPTEMBER. 1949
ASSETS
Coin, Bullion, Notes and Cash at
Bankers £29,058,971 12 5
Treasury Bills Australian .. .. 10,000,000 0 0
Government Securities —Australian,
New Zealand, British and Fijian 25,117,842 6 2
Due by other banks 8,087,852 11 4
Bills Receivable and Remittances in
Tr'ansit 38,223,232 1 6
Special Account with Commonwealth
Bank of Australia 87,470,000 0 0
Statutory Deposit with Reserve
Bank of New Zealand 1,893,472 0 0
199,851,370 11 5
Loans and Advances to Customers 111,936,784 18 5
Bank Premises .. 4,080,000 0 0
All other Assets 2,000 0 0
315,870,155 9 10
Liabilities of Customers and others
on Letters of Credit, Guarantees,
etc., as per contra . .. 15,809,334 7 1
£331,679,489 16 11
LIABILITIES
Notes in Circulation £80,995 0 0
Deposits, Accrued Interest, Rebate,
Bills Payable and other Liabili-
ties, including Reserves held for
Doubtful Debts and other Con-
tingencies 300,187,287 10 6
300,268,282 10 6
Paid-up Capital 8,780,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 6,150,000 0 0
Profit and Loss . . £1,198,672 19 4
less Interim
Dividends to
30th June, 1949 526,800 0 0
671,872 19 4
315,870,155 9 10
Contingent Liabilities —
Outstanding Credits, Guarantees,
etc., as per contra 15,809,334 7 1
£331,679,489 16 11
Net Profit for Year ended SOth
September, £7 43,692 15 4
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817
4
DIRECTORS
The Hon. Sir FREDERICK TOUT, President.
fd
J. H. F. FAIRFAX, Esq,
MARTIN McILRATH, Esq.
The Hon. C. A. SINCLAIR
JOHN CADWALLADER, Esq.
Sir LESLIE MORSHEAD,
K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.G., D.S.O.
R. C. WILSON, Esq. m.l.c.
General Manager— T. B. HEFFER
Assistant General Manager —S. J. GANDON
Chief Inspectors —C. L. HALL, H. C. C. MARSHALL
Incorporated in New South Wales with limited liability
AH936C
NOW OPEN
SYDNEY
WATER
BOARD
£1,500,000
LOAN
No. 65
£3-5-0
PER CENT PER ANNUM
GUARANTEED BY THE
NEW SOUTH WALES
GOVERNMENT
An authorised Trustee Investment
in N.S.W., Queensland, and
Tasmania.
• Issued at par
• Currency 15 years
• Interest paid half yearly
• Interest may be credited to
current or savings bank
accounts
• A readily marketable security
Interest accrues immediately from date of
investment and is payable free of exchange,
in terms of the prospectus.
Closes on or before 10th December.
Subscriptions are free of exchange and
payable by instalments if desired. Minimum
subscription is £5O.
DON T DELA Y
APPLY TO ANY OFFICE OF THE COMMON-
WEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA, THE SYDNEY
WATER BOARD OR THROUGH MEMBERS OF
RECOGNISED AUSTRALIAN STOCK
EXCHANGES.
Prospectus and Application Forms
available on application.
Loan underwritten by J. B. Were & Son,
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
• " ' ' W6A-49
had to face the job of cushioning
the impact upon the public as
best they could. They granted
certain price-increases on
materials made up from the old
stocks of subsidised wool, so
that the extra profit • gained by
manufacturers could be used
later to delay price-rises on goods
made from unsubsidised wool.
The “averaging-funds” will
thus be used to subsidise future
sales. As a result, those firms
which were carrying big stocks
at the changeover will not reap
the reward for their prudence.
One of the largest “averaging-
funds” to appear so far
(especially in relation to the
scale of weaving operations) is
that of Valley Worsted Mills,
Ltd., amounting to £67,969.
This Geelong (Vic.) concern,
which turns out a full range of
worsteds and woollen cloths,
came on to the Stock Exchange
only 12 years ago. The current
yield of 6.6 p.c. from its pound
shares at the market price of
455. is one of the highest in the
weaving group. It contrasts
with 3.6 p.c. from Yarra Falls.
In the case of Valley Worsted,
last year’s 15 p.c. dividend in-
cluded a 2i p.c. bonus, and the
margin of undistributed profit
was relatively small. All the
rise of £9321 in net profit that
was shown last year resulted
from a- reduced tax provision.
Before tax, declared profit
showed no change from 1948,
when a 12i p.c. div. was paid.
The asset position of Valley
Worsted is strong. Freeholds
have been written down from
an original cost of £362,889 to
£46,026; and plant from
£196,530 to £114,610. The heavy
depreciation provisions will be
valuable as a replacement re-
serve for renewing plant at
existing costs; meanwhile they
have helped to raise cash and
bond holdings to £285,769, which
represents three-quarters of the
company’s capital.
The chairman expects mar-
keting problems to increase
shortly ; competition is sharpen-
ing, and the public will have to
be asked to pay still higher
prices. On the distributing side
the company has the co-opera-
tion of G. and R. Wills, Ltd.,
the old Adelaide warehouse,
which holds about 25 p.c. of
Valley Worsted’s scrip.
An Unbalanced Economy
After a couple of strenuous
years in holding the rein on
prices. New Zealanders are be-
ginning to see the danger-signal,
and are asking whether goods
bought from John Bull under
1950 import-licences will be
priced up to a point which will
throw M.L. price-control right
out of gear. Maorilanders are
bracing themselves for shocks
when New Year shipments give
them their first real taste of the
effects of sterling depreciation,
and the Stabilisation Commis-
sion might have to do its hardest
thinking yet. Producers, manu-
facturers and every little Maori-
lander might have some tough
nuts to crack, and, if the cost of
living jumped, wage - earners
would soon be knocking at the
door of the Arbitration Court.
For years the Stabilisation
Commission has been a fairly
vigilant watchdog, charged, on
pain of severe socialistic cen-
sure, to hold the barrier intact
against pressure from all
quarters, internal and external;
but the test that’s looming up
now has a more formidable look.
Bankers are scratching their
heads, too, not just because
they’d have to add millions to
already overgrown currency and
credit but because they’d be
more troubled than ever by the
vaporings of monetary cranks,
critics and reformers who think
they can teach them how the job
should be done. All the time
the real niggers in the woodpile,
M.L.’s socialistic money-spinners
of the past 14 years, could lie
low while the Reserve Bank,
which they forced into a strait-
jacket, had to stop most of the
bullets.
It was socialistic conjuring-up
of millions of credit to build
State houses that started the in-
flationary ball rolling, while the
Reserve Bank handed out the
new funds. Armfuls of notes
were next drawn into the mone-
tary stream by a suction which
the Reserve Bank couldn’t
resist.
The Reserve Bank could have
become a scapegoat, while the
wily. Socialists concealed them-
selves behind it, but it didn’t,
although most Maorilanders
have only a hazy notion of what
its powers are and how it uses
them. They’ve been off the
track in blaming it for pumping
more than enough notes into
circulation, but if they then
jumped to the conclusion that
the trading banks must be the
villains of the piece they’d be
wrong again. In this little matter
of banknotes, bankers will tell
you, the supply has to be enough
to satisfy the demand, but there
it stops. If banks had their
vaults chock-full of notes which
weren’t needed all those tucked
away would be just waste-paper
so far as their influence went.
There’s a lot of nonsense
talked about control of credit,
too. Those in Maoriland who
glibly say the banks should
draw off a swag of socialistic
credit and ease the pressure
have been laying the blame at
the wrong door. The Socialists,
by their borrowing, started this,
and they could stop it if they
could muster up enough
courage; but Socialists love
easy money. The banks haven’t
had an easy job, and it’s not
their business to smother up the
effects of excess socialistic
credit.
Other troublesome hurdles on
Maoriland’s rather shaky stabi-
lisation front are chronic short-
age of labor for factories and
farms, which doesn’t make price
problems easier to solve, and
idle plant in factories, which
trails along in the wake of
understaffing. Basic industries,
like woollen mills and the foot-
wear and leather trades, with
more raw material than they
can use just over the fence, are
half-throttled, while girls flock to
the more modern factories, some
in the semi-luxury field, dazzled
by the lure of free hair-perms,
bonuses, free transport to and
from work and other perks.


Women’s Letters
From Sydney
As this Letter has before pointed out,
the National Art Gallery has only to
name a date for the opening of an
exhibition and at the appointed hour up
come the clouds grey and lowering, so
that the gallery is nothing but a darkened
cavern where all the paintings peer out
from a twilight of color. Last Thursday
afternoon, just half an hour or so before
Major-General LaFleche, High Com-
missioner for Canada in Australia, was
due to open the Massey Collection of
English painting, the inevitable happened.
The skies grew black, thunder rumbled,
rain fell by the bucketful. Still, even in
the murk the beauty of Dame Ethel
Walker’s “Lady in Blue,” Augustus
John’s “Canadian Soldier,” his “Cycla-
men and Aminta,” Orpen’s “Lottie of
Paradise Row,” Paul Nash’s “Vale of
the White Blackbird,” Ambrose McEvoy’s
“Girl in a Red Coat” caught the imagi-
nation.
Major-General LaFleche spoke well
and simply. He spoke as a friend of the
Hon. Vincent Massey and Mrs. Massey,
great art-lovers and collectors, who gave
this collection to the National Art Gallery
of Canada. A condition of the gift was that
the paintings be widely exhibited. Be-
tween 1949-50 Australia and Maoriland
will share with their sister-Dominion
Canada this rich treasure. Mrs.
LaFleche and their daughter, pretty
Denyse, and son Jean accompanied his,
Excellency. Under her honey beige coat
Mrs. LaFleche wore a silk frock patterned
in tones of brown. Denyse’s silk suit was
of beige silk patterned in burgundy
spots. It matched her long-handled
umbrella. President of the Gallery, B. J.
Waterhouse, introduced the speaker, and
president of the Society of Artists
Douglas Dundas spoke the thanksgiving.
Mrs. Douglas Dundas, Jean Isherwood
and Dora Jarrett were among admiring
women artists. A reminder of a former
Gallery trustee and great art-collector
John Lane Mullins was the presence of
daughter Mrs. Norris and her two small
grandsons.
On Friday the C. M. Crofts (Mr. Croft,
the Commercial Counsellor for Canada,
has just returned from a trip to Ottawa)
had 300 guests at their Billyardr-avenue
home to meet the LaFleches. The guests
spread over the lawn that fronts the
harbor, and helped themselves at outdoor
bar and buffet on a delightful Sydney
summery evening.
Probably never since its beginnings has
the Lady Mayoress’s Relief Fund had a
better year. The activities of the women’s
committee have been tireless. Last
Friday’s Fair in the lower Town Hall was
a glittering finish to the whole. Among
star items were the two Christmas cakes,
one made and donated by Mrs. R. G. M.
Boyer, the other, the three-or-four-story-
high one with a cheery little Santa Claus
popping down the chimney of the small
house that topped off the Everest of ice-
ing, was donated by Colonel Reeve of
“Nicer” cakes. It was iced and decorated
by one of the factory employees. From
opening- till closing-time the eight-foot
tree glittering with tinsel and toys that
stood in the middle of the room was
ringed with children. A great idea was
the midday lunch of salads served in the
tea-room. The whole of this service was
a voluntary offering by members of the
committees of the seven charity organisa-
tions helped throughout the years by the
Lady Mayoress’s Relief Fund. Mrs.
J. B. Monteath was honorary director of
the tea-rooms.
Mr. and Mrs. Harry Evans (she is
pianist Beatrice Tange) have sent out
cards for their annual informal party in
their Vaucluse home in appreciation of
the good work of the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra throughout the 1949 season.
The date is Sunday, December 4; time,
from five o’clock onwards.
Pretty Beth Stephenson was married in
St. Martin’s Church, Killara, last week to
Tony Cowper, younger son of the Mac-
quarie Cowpers, of Strathfield. The
storm which tore the earlier part of the
afternoon to shreds had passed over by
the time the vows were being blessed.
Beth, who is the younger daughter of
the J, H. Stephensons, of Killara, made
graceful passage of the aisle. Her draped
white satin frock was softly filmed by a
four-tiered tulle veil fitted cap-wise to
the head with orange-blossom. Mrs. Bill
Cowper and Gai Cowper were the bridal
attendants. Their frocks of white
organdie, very bouffant, were sashed in
apple-green —the ends of the bows falling
to the hems of the skirts. Large white
crinoline hats were worn by both. The
reception was at Girraween, Killara,
Country interest last week centred on
the wedding of Elizabeth Goodwin, elder
daughter of the late W. C. Goodwin and
of Mrs. E. G, Goodwin, of Braemar,
Aston Gardens, Bellevue Hill, and Bruce
Mac Smith, second son of the L. Mac-
Smiths, of Borlee Cabonne, Borenore.
The reception was at Rancliff, Woollahra.
The Maurice Gulsons’ Christmas party
last Friday was as gay as a Christmas-
bush in full bloom. Guests, 50 or more
of them, came from as far away as the
heights of the North Shore to the Gul-
sons’ Rose Bay home. Mrs. Gulson
wore an afternoon suit of chrysanthe-
mum-brown silk, the jacket being lightly
scrolled with bronze sequins. Frock and
the bronze shoes accompanying it were
bought in Colombo during Mrs. Gulson’s
recent visit.
Like train-travellers from the North
Shore Line, Sydney audiences are set for
Wynyard—the fair Diana Wynyard of
this picture. Diana made her first appear-
ance here as Beatrice, the Shakspeare
heroine who> says of herself; “A star
danced and under that was I born,” and
again: “1 was born to speak all mirth
and no matter.” Whatever lady Will had
in mind when he wrote, she could not
have been lovelier than Diana, who with
her company comes to Sydney’s Tivoli
from the Shakspeare Memorial Theatre,
England. Anyway, they will be there
for the next five weeks, so go and see for
yourselves..
Did you feel your heart strings vibrate
last week, and your veins run with excite-
ment? If you did, the reason is clear—
Santa Claus arrived in the city. After a
spectacular tour of the city from Camper-
down, through Castlereagh-street, and
down Goulburn-street, he whisked into
Anthony Horderns’ store. There he sits,
clothed in his traditional glories, close by
the small hillside cavern around the walls
of which Snow-White and the Seven
Dwarfs enact their evergreen story. This
strikes a very topical note, for you see
the seven dwarfs with their picks re-
turning from their day’s work as miners.
You can also muse that the domestic-
help problem is no new one, otherwise
the cruel Queen would not have thought
of putting the Princess Snow-White to
scrubbing the palace steps. Over 1000
youngsters were on the spot to welcome
Santa on his arrival, and uncountable
were the joyous waves of the hand he re-
ceived on his entry to the city.
A whole pig beautifully barbered and
dismembered, his parts all cellophane-
wrapped, will indeed be the gentleman
who pays the rent at “The Stars Will
Call” revue. This will scintillate on
Saturday afternoon, December 3, to
aid the appeal for the Women
Writers’ Friendly Fund. “Ada and
Elsie” of radio renown will auction the
pig. Vinia de Loitte (Countess de Vilme-
Hautmont) has organised and will pro-
duce the show.
Mrs. Paddy Moore and Mrs, Charles
Long have been roped in as treasurer
and secretary respectively of the Fun and
Fair Barbecue, which will be held at
Victoria Barracks, early in December. It
will open in the afternoon. There will
be lovely gifts on the stalls, there will be
golf and tennis, duck-rides, peeps into
the future, and everybody you know to
gossip with. In the evening there will
be a barbecue supper and after that
dancing for those who want it. Profits
are for the War Widows’ Guild and for
food parcels for Britain. Mrs. Berry-
man, wife of Lieut.-General Berryman,
is president of the Eastern Command
Women’s Auxiliary. The war widows are
its special care.
You still remember the soaring notes
of Ina Crouch, who was Queen of the
Night in the Conservatorium’s last pro-
duction of “The Magic Flute”? Well, she
and her husband. Lieutenant Humbley,
R. are off to England very soon. Ina
intends to keep on her singing studies, and
teacher Roland Foster expects great
things of her. Last week a group of
singers and teachers from the Con. gave
Ina and her husband a surprise farewell
in the Astor cafe. Mrs. Roland Foster
was the instigator of the affair, and to
Charlotte Mills’s accompaniment sang
Australian composer May Brahe’s
“Good-bye.” Ina scooped, besides good
wishes, several pairs of silk stockings and
gloves. Her husband was presented with
a prize pineapple done up in cellophane.
Someone had been told that pineapples
were more than £1 each in London.
From Melbourne
At the reception given by the British
Empire Societies at the National Gallery
huge bowls of tall delphiniums, lilies and
rhododendrons comprised the decora-
tions. Major - General F. Kingsley
Norris, chairman of the 8.E.5., and Mrs.
Norris, the chairman of trustees of the
National Gallery, Sir Keith Murdoch,
Lady Murdoch and Miss M. S. William-
son, hon. secretary of the council, re-
ceived the vice-regal party. The heart-
shaped bodice of Lady Brooks’s white-
satin gown was of gold and silver bro-
cade to match the short-sleeved bolero ;
the skirt fell in soft folds from a hori-
zontal hipline drape. Jeanette Brooks’s
period gown of heavy grey and lilac
shot taffeta had an off-the-shoulder
bodice and panniered skirt, caught into
the folds of which at one side was a
cluster of pink silk peony roses. Patricia
Edge wore a full-skirted gown of old-
gold satin which had a deep shawl neck-
line. A powder-blue chiffon gown was
the choice of Mrs. R. W. Spraggett.
Lady Murdoch’s bouffant gown was
of midnight-blue taffeta. Mrs. Guy
Bakewell’s frock was of black lace. A
brilliant emerald-green chiffon side-drape
lit up Mrs. Russell Grimwade’s white-
chiffon gown. Mrs. Daryl Lindsay
draped a lovely old lace stole over her
white gown polka-dotted in scarlet.
Floral satins made a gay splash for Lady
Lowe. Gold sequins transformed the
simple black dinner-gown worn by Mrs.
Cyril Dickson. Her mother, Mrs. W. F.
Darling, wore black velvet. Frances
Dobinson’s floral satin gown made a foil
for the magnolia satin off-the-shoulder
gown worn by Margaret Johnson. Pea-
cock-blue crepes made Mrs. A. J. White
an easily-distinguishable figure.
R.A.A.F, headquarters mess in .St.
Kilda-road provided the setting for the
buffet dinner-party given by Air-Marshal
George Jones and his wife. Mess-cooks,
who had apparently profited greatly by
lessons at the William Angliss trade
school, turned out such culinary works
of art that it seemed almost like sacrilege
to eat them. Mrs. Jones received the
guests with her husband, her avocado-
pear-green crepe frock contrasting with a
natural straw hat trimmed with golden
wheat-ears. A brown-and-white-striped
taffeta ballerina frock with a dropped
shoulder-line was worn by Jeanette
Brooks. Patricia Edge had large brown
flowers printed on her white crepe frock
with its square neckline and draped side-
panel. A bustle-bow on the skirt of her
black crepe frock and pale-yellow flowers
trimming her small black hat were
notable adjuncts to Mrs. H. F. Wright’s
outfit. Her daughter, Mrs. Ron Marriott,
contrasted her sage-green coat with a
flower-trimmed natural straw hat. Mrs.
S. J. Fletcher plumped for the dependable
black ensemble. Mrs. F. Bladin had pink
roses in her black hat and fresh white
lace relieving her black suit. Mrs. J. J.
Booth, who was with her archbishop
husband, had Princess-blue in frock and
hat. Mrs. Dougal McLachlan’s satin
cloche hat matched her grey frock. Mrs.
Charles Probert’s sage-green frock was
draped. Mrs. Roy Galway teamed a sea-
green taffeta hat with her black frock.
Mrs. John Black’s French-corded silk
frock was slate-blue in tone. Mrs. F.
Scherger’s ballerina frock was of soft-
rose taffeta, her small cap of black velvet.
On the most sultry day of last week
Douglas Cox staged his winter fashion-
show. While members of the audience
fanned themselves to keep cool manne-
quins displayed heavy coats and wool
frocks. In this new collection there are
no great changes for the 1950 season.
But there are smart fashions to suit all
types of figures. The tall woman will
wear the tent coat with distinction, and
the not-so-tall will wear the slim belted
coat. Skirts of day frocks will be worn
Min. from the ground and are mostly
slim-fitting. Many frocks feature peg-
top lines with fullness at the hips and
cut well into the hemline to retain the
slim line. One model coat in astra-green,
a shade as bright as apple-green, was cut
into the waist at the back with fullness
in the skirt. The waistline was low in
front with a button-fastening at the
natural waistline. The high collar was
rolled high and snug at the neckline.
Frocks for night gaiety, still strapless,
will be accompanied by a demure little
jacket or bolero.
On summer nights young girls will
dance in ankle-length frocks of broderie
Anglaise or organdie. Feature of these
is the Alice in Wonderland sashes which
girdle the waist; they are of soft-pink
or blue, and one striking ballerina of
white silk organza was contrasted by a
sash of lime-green satin. Formal occa-
sions bring gowns of rich silk into the
picture. These are fashioned of otto-
mans, failles and bengalines, have the
strapless bodice, the skirts cut slim in
front and sweeping to the back in folds
to become slightly trained. Among the
colors are American-red, nautical-blue,
Edwardian-grey, Medici-wine and Floren-
tine-blue. Jn the range of green there
are Cyprus, Regency and Astra from
which to choose. Victoria-rose is a soft
and charming shade.
Elizabeth Boyd, who marries Felix
St. Hill at St. John’s, Toorak, on
December 10, was guest of honor at a
late-afternoon party at the South Yarra
home of Mrs. Eric Byron Moore.
Hostess was Mrs. Byron Moore’s
daughter-in-law, Mrs. Gordon Byron
Moore, who had worked at the U.S. In-
formation Library with Elizabeth. An
aqua-green crepe frock, the skirt having
unpressed pleats, was worn by Mrs.
Gordon Byron Moore. Mrs. Eric Byron
Moore’s ensemble was black. The guest-
of-honor combined a soft-rose-pink-pat-
terned frock and a small white hat.
Marjorie Byron Moore’s ensemble com-
prised a skirt of heavy off-white lace and
a bodice of gold tissue, which was draped
to the back to finish in a scarf effect.
Patricia Edge’s frock was in soft-brown
Paisley print on a white background.
Mrs. Pat Kennison’s black silk organdie
ballerina frock was worn with a wide-
brimmed black silk straw hat. Mrs. Ken
Myer was in grey hailspot muslin. Mari-
gold Myer teamed a black taffeta skirt
with a white crepe blouse, the scooped-
out neckline of which was trimmed with
embroidery to match the frills on the
bracelet-length sleeves. Mrs. Douglas
Boyd, mother of the bride-to-be, wore a
black ensemble and small matching hat.
Nancy Ying’s ballerina frock was of
finely-tucked net.
It took Diana Wynyard 10 minutes to
explain to members of the English-
Speaking Union that she never, never
made speeches. This happened at the
luncheon at which she was billed as guest
speaker. Women, she averred, should
never address anybody. A woman can
get up and toss off a few words. You
can ask her to talk for 10 minutes or
half an hour, but an address —never.
Having said this and explaining how she
had just popped in before popping off
to Sydney, because at the first reception
given by the E.-S.U. she had “such a
whale of a time,” she sat down amid
great applause. Diana looked enchant-
ing in a black frock and a small white
hat* and left before the end of the
luncheon to continue with recording
“Macbeth” for the A.B.C.
A fine day prevailed for the Caulfield
meeting, though earlier warnings of evil
weather deterred many racegoers from
donning the summery outfit. The Lady
Mayoress, Mrs. J. S. Disney, was one
whose gamble on Old Sol came off —she
was cool in powder-blue silk frock and
wide-brimmed white straw hat. With
her dove-grey suit Mrs. Victor Cornaga
wore a natural straw, small'and upturned
and with an edge of brown to match the
veil. Mrs. Geoff Tolson’s navy jacket-
suit was topped by a navy straw, its
wide brim lined with white. Mrs. Norman
Robinson’s small navy hat had one large
white rose set at one side ; her suit was
of navy bird’s-eye tweed. Mrs. H. Way
wore underneath her navy coat a navy-
and-white-patterned frock with hat to
match. Mrs. J. J. Makin, of California,
wore a platina musquash coat with her
small off-the-face white hat. Mrs. W. K.
Burnside, just returned from a visit to
England, America and the Continent,
wore a sulphur-yellow hat banded with
brown satin ribbon with her brown wool
frock. Navy-and-white satin ribbon
trimmed Mrs. Oliver J. Nilsen’s hat, which
was worn with a navy jacket-suit. A
blue-and-white-striped taffeta brim gave
effect to the raspberry-red straw hat Mrs.
Len Buxton wore with her navy jacket-
suit. Her daughter Beverley had a cluster
of lilac on her hat to match her lilac
suit. Beige French gabardine fashioned
Mrs. John Davoren’s suit; her hat was of
pearl-grey straw.


BRANDTS famous TILLEY
STORM LANTERN
&
I
I
g)
SL_
m
Vs
300
CANDLE
POWER
Here’s a safe, reliable lamp to
give you brilliant illumination
anywhere, under all conditions.
It has heat-resisting Glass, is
stormproof, and is solidly
made in Brass metal.
Economical and easy to
operate, this famous British
Kerosene Pressure-type Lamp
is moderately priced at
861-
RETAIL
TRADE SUPPLIED
Write for particulars.
BRANDTS PTY. LTD.
APPLIANCE
SPECIALISTS
SINCE 1878
371 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. 'Phone: M 4651.
“THE GUARDSMAN”
TILLEY
STORM LANTERN
MODEL X 246
-
Hieh Polished Finish in the
Modern Speculum Plated Process
Heat Resisting Durosil Glass
TILLEY.™ LAMPS
BURN ORDINARY KEROSENE
The Lamps with
the Happy Mantle !
MANUFACTURED ONLY
AT HENDON, ENGLAND
BY
THE TILLEY LAMP COMPANY LTD.
DISTRIBUTORS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
Manufacturers * Representatives t. H. BENTLEY (PTY) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET,
MELBOURNE, Cl
SUNDRY SHOWS
Gift From Canada.
The Massey Collection of
contemporary English painting
is the best travelling exhibition
the N. S. Wales National Gal-
lery has had for many years.
Massey is a Canadian Howard
Hinton who has spent his life
buying pictures and giving them
to the National Gallery of
Canada. No pictures by Cana-
dian artists are in the present
collection, which was mostly
picked up by Mr. Massey from
1935 to 1946, when he was
Canadian High Commissioner in
London. Perhaps Australia
could persuade Canada to send
us its own painters, either Mas-
sey’s or a general collection, at
some future date, in return for
an Australian travelling exhibi-
tion —which would need to be
selected with the same catholicity
and sureness of taste as Mas-
sey’s English pictures.
The catalogue does not state
whether the present exhibition
contains the whole of the English
collection, but either Mr, Massey
has a strong feeling for the
Empire or else the Canadian
authorities have dipped among
his paintings for works of par-
ticular interest to Australia, for
the Australians Charles Conder
and Derwent Lees and the New
Zealander Frances Hodgkins are
included.
The Conders are a beach scene
and a portrait, both undistin-
guished. Derwent Lees’s “Blue
Pool,” with its chalky sandhills,
its fuzzy pine and its sky lack-
ing luminosity and distance, is
a crude bit of work, and the
Frances Hodgkins landscape is
one of those mannered and
meaningless abstractions in
which the trees look like pot-
plants and the clouds labor in
the red sky like lumps of pink
cotton-wool.
There are many Australian
paintings in the Gallery’s own
collection, meagre though it is,
that would make far better com-
pany for Massey’s English stal-
warts. Augustus John’s fiery
self-portrait, with his red beard
burning under his panama hat,
magnificent though it is, can
hardly be said to put Lambert’s
equally ruddy and equally
dramatic self-portrait in the
shade. Nor, painting for paint-
ing, disregarding international
reputation, would one wish to
exchange Tom Roberts’s “Lady
in Grey” or the great Hugh
Ramsay’s for any portrait in
the exhibition—even though it
includes Orpen’s “Lottie of Para-
dise Walk” in all her Cockney
impudence and grace.
And among the landscapes
there is certainly no Wilson
Steer —though “The Severn Val-
ley” is full of light, and there
is feminine charm in the figures
of “The Edge of the Cliff,” and
“The Thames at Chelsea” is a
nice piece of Turneresque color
—that has the clear, crisp poetry
of a Gruner, Richard Eurich’s
fishing village is a most striking
composition, yet, compared with
a Lance Solomon sea-piece, cold.
Some other Australian artists
whom the English paintings
bring to mind include Mary
Edwards, because of Augustus
John’s head of a native girl,
“Aminta,” though the wild
vitality of this savage in the pink
dress altogether transcends the
decorative grace to be found in
Mary Edwards’s Fijians; Francis
Lymburner, whose style is like
a mixture of the vague smudges
of Ivon Hitchens and the elusive
beauty of Ambrose McEvoy’s
“Girl in a Red Coat” ; Frank
Medworth, who used to show
many works in the style of
David Jones’s “Carr’s Splint.”
Perhaps, too, one could com-
pare Paul Nash’s “Dymchurch
Steps,” empty and desolate in
the dawn, with the Sali Herman
“McElhone Stairs” that once
took the Wynne Prize; but the
Nash has an aesthetic charm in
its pinks and greys that could
not be found in the Herman.
In the same way, Herman’s
slums might be regarded as a
more dilapidated version of the
dreary realism of Sickert, several
of whose dark and dolorous
canvases are on view.
The other paintings by Paul
Nash are not of the same
quality: two are of aeroplanes,
and nobody yet seems to have
found out how to make a pic-
ture out of an aeroplane ; and
“Chestnut Waters” shows his
familiar stove-pipe trees leaning
above reflections as striped and
gaudy as a beach-umbrella.
Some other painters who
might be mentioned in the same
experimental category are Stan-
ley Spencer, whose blossom-trees
in “Marsh Meadows” are a
beautiful mass of white and
green set in the funereal atmos-
phere which Spencer derived
from the pre-Raphaelites, and
whose self-portrait makes him
look like an indignant black-
bird ; Tristram Hillier, with his
curious vacuum-cleaned land-
scapes, one of them enlivened
by a scarecrow madly dancing
and another, of a street-accident,
comic where it should be tragic,
and yet impressive in its obser-
vation of character; Henry
Moore with some chunky and
forbidding females, apparently
resigning themselves with monu-
mental disdain to being sculpted
by Henry Moore; Christopher
Nevinson with a comic-cut of
French soldiers in a cubist pat-
tern ; Matthew Smith slathering
paint with equal abandon on
green apples and fat nudes, and
getting a rich splosh of color
out of a vase of tormented
tulips; and William Scott with
an emaciated wooden girl in a
chemise of white paint.
The strength of the exhibition
lies in the portraits a
category in which English and
Scottish painters, with some
notable contributions from Aus-
tralia, have stood alone since
the great days of the Dutch.
There is the plump delicacy of
William Coldstream’s “Miss
Anrep” ; a fine “Young Woman
In a Grey Cloak” by Gwen
John, the sister of Augustus;
“Thelma” by Edward Le Bas,
a girl in a dark-blue dress
against a greenish background,
painted with the solid strength
of a Longstaff; the McEvoy
and the Orpen; Rothenstein’s
sombrely powerful study of
Harold Jones; and, above all,
the seven portraits by Augustus
John, every one of which
Canada is lucky to own and
Australia lucky to see.
Victorian Sculptors 1
Society.
All the Victorian Sculptors’
Society has done by its exhibi-
tion at the Victorian Artists’
Society’s gallery is to demon-
strate its almost complete lack of
imagination, unless it can be
called an achievement of the
imagination for a young lady
to go into a hatshop and come
out wearing an example of the
latest model. Sculptors partici-
pating in this exhibition are so
completely determined by pre-
vailing fashions that when they
compete for a competition like
the design for the Pinkerton
Bequest statue at Ballarat they
all weigh in with designs so
exactly like one another’s that
they could all have been done
by the same hand.
As for the resthetic content,
there is as little of it as there is
in a young lady’s selection of this
year’s model with the ribbons in
place of last year’s with the arti-
ficial flowers. How the judges
made up their minds between
George H. Allen’s design for
the Pinkerton memorial and
those of R. B. Ewers, Victor
Greenhalgh or Ola Cohn is as
much a mystery as why one
sculptor curves women 19 hands
high with heads like the Pin-
headed Chinaman, while another
does ’em as broad as-they’re long
or broader and calls them “The
Mother.”
Invitee Laurie Shannon’s
“Family Group,” depicting a
father, mother and child, stands
out in this collection of dead
clay, bronze, stone and marble,
not because of any great excel-
lence in the modelling, but be-
cause the sculptor has stopped
at a point where the fleshiness of
the subject hasn’t altogether
been removed by the fashionable
“finish” which makes the
material look anything but
fleshly.
Another arresting figure is the
plaster original of the Drouin
District Memorial of the late
war by R. B. Ewers which will
presumably replace the bugler
in ivhite-icing which an enterpris-
ing manufacturer turned out by
mass production after World
War I.
Some credit goes to Tina
Wentcher for letting nature have
a look-in in her Bali portraits,
and Clifford Reynolds’s cor-
morant in wood is an amusing
study.
In opening the depressing
show Mr. Daryl Lindsay made
the suggestion that sculptors and
architects should go hand in hand
together. So they should, but
unfortunately, on the evidence
of this exhibition and the recenf
architectural outbreak at the
Exhibition Building, where what
looked like a giant chook-shed
was presented as the “Dream
Home of the Future,” it will be
a case of the blind leading the
blind.
Penberthy's Paintings.
A first show by Wesley Pen-
berthy at Kozminsky’s Gallery,
Melbourne, indicates much more
effort than is usually put into
the student’s early stages on the
long climb to Parnassus. Pen-
berthy uses temper, under-paint-
ing and glazes on subject-matter
obviously influenced by the ex-
ample of Norman Lindsay.
“The Wall” is a large canvas
of nymphs, satyrs and demons
clambering up a hillside
crowned with an enormous
building, and the artist has tried
to get the depth he is aiming at
by using the techniques of the
Old Masters. When the quality
of his observation catches up
with his technique he should do
wonders, for he evidently has
talent. “El Greco Head” shows
a woman with her head set on
an elongated neck. The form
is Greco all right, but what is
put into the form isn’t up to
the quality of that master.
Two studies, “Judas” and
“Peter,” are the most striking.
Peter is denying his Lord for
economic reasons and Judas
is betraying him from jealousy,
and the difference in charac-
ter between the two faces
is vigorously rendered. Some
pottery decorated by the artist
with heads and figures has much
more of the flavor of a good
tradition than most modern ex-
amples of the genus.


an affair
OF THE HEARY
BY DAVID CAMPBELL
LITTLE Vicki Glover had had an
unhappy love affair. She had, of
course, been very discreet, for there
was her husband’s position to be
thought of; and the social editors had
been discreet, too. They had merely
heard that a charming matron was seen
dancing, attending a first-night, walking
on the lawns at the Easter Meeting, with
a tall stranger. When the affair broke
up so fiercely, Vicki threw a few things
into suitcases and fled to the country.
Looking out of the carriage window at
the moving line of scarred hills, she knew
that her heart was broken.
Colonel Graham saw the train lay its
smoke in the valley. He slid his watch
back into his pocket and trod down the
sharp gravel on the platform. The train
was on time.
Galahs pecked among the cinders be-
tween the ( shining rails, and Colonel
Graham was reminded of feminine
things. Their full breasts had the blush
of rouge; the delicate powders of their
wings invited the touch like velvet. A
young lady stepped from the bath in
Colonel Graham’s mind and moved softly
through a pink-and-grey bedroom. The
Colonel coughed.
He took off his hat, ran a hand through
short white hair, and with a calloused
forefinger prodded another dent in the
crown of the hat. The train scattered the
galahs as it pulled into the station. They
were no more substantial than the torn
shreds of steam.
“Well, my dear.”
\ / ICKI paused a moment before
V alighting, though there were no
photographers on this toy, country siding
—only the stationmaster with the giant
key he had exchanged so secretly with
the engine-driver; the box bus shaking
to bits under the pepper-trees ; her uncle,
lean and old-world, with a hand out-
stretched for her elbow to help her down.
“Oh, Uncle,” she said. “How nice of
you to come! And on your own!”
Her eyes misted as she raised her small
head out of her furs, and he bent low
his cheek to receive her kiss ; the grateful
brushing of lips on a weathered jaw.
Her uncle’s courtesy had put Vicki back
to school. She wanted to cry on his
shoulder for all the years between.
“Well, now—luggage! You brought
your luggage? Of course.” Colonel
Graham was shying away from those
ready tears, “You’re looking well, Vicki.
But thin; bit pale. A few good break-
fasts and some clean air . . . What’s
this?” •
“Ah!”
Vicki’s eyes were green, and tears
flirted with her laughter when she smiled.
She looked up; she looked down at the
white dog in her arms.
“This is Crispin,” she said. “Say hello
to Uncle George,”
A small bundle of tight woolly curls
trotted across the gravel and made im-
mediate use of the leg of a Government
bench.
“Well, I’ll be damned,” said Graham.
“Isn’t he sweet!”
“He could do with a bit of wigging
about the eyes,” Graham said. “One
thing at all events: he won’t frighten the
sheep.”
“Uncle George, you’re dreadful! Isn’t
he a dreadful man, Crispin?”
She picked the dog up in her arms and
Graham laughed heartily, pulling his hat
down over one eye.
“You’ve got enough luggage here for
a trip to England,” he said. “Which do
you want right away? I’ll have the mail-
man bring the rest out.”
like magnetised shav-
J ings, the scraps of Vicki’s heart crept
closer together on the drive to her uncle’s
place. He helped her into the car as if
she were indeed breakable; he recited
Henry the Fifth’s address to his troops
on St. Crispin’s Day, proclaiming
And gentlemen of England, now a-bed.
Shall think themselves accursed they were
not here.
He dropped into his easy country
manner and said, “See that tree there?
Your Uncle John and I lunched under it
once on our way to Sydney.”
Nothing was said about the tragedy.
Her uncle’s delicacy forbade it. But she
could feel his sympathy; he talked to
take her mind off it.
Aunt Elsa was just not interested.
She was a fat, passive woman, a camp-
follower of life, busily tidying-up after it
and surprised by nothing.
“Here’s your room, Vicki.”
“Oh, Aunt Elsa! How sweet. All the
jonquils! And books by the bed! Let
me see.”
She laid the books down quickly and
pushed back her silver-fair hair.
“Aunt Elsa, I’m so tired; dead with
tiredness! If you only knew . ,
“Dinner’s at seven, Vicki; as usual.
You know where the bathroom is.”
Mrs. Graham closed the door before
Vicki had time to ask about the raw liver
for Crispin.
“Crispin, she doesn’t like us.”
And she lay on the bed with the white
dog in her arms and cried to break the
awful stillness. The dog whimpered, raised
its woolly head and howled. He was
delightful.
“Crispin,” Vicki said. “What a little
fool I am to redden my eyes like this;
and all over old Aunt Elsa. We know
why she’s unpleasant! Come, up we get!
I have a treat for us.”
Her aunt always dressed for dinner.
Vicki was quite gay after her bath.
She pinned and hooked and wriggled
before the glass, softened with a dab of
powder the crimson on her ripe lips. The
gaslight was becoming. Then she mixed
herself a cocktail, for she knew the
Colonel’s regulations, and drank it
slowly while she combed out Crispin’s
curls.
“There,” she said. “You look sweet.
Tail up! Off we go.”
A final question for the mirror, and
she closed the door behind them against
her bare arm. Petite, groomed, brave, in
a white dress that cupped her creamy
shoulder like a vase, she stepped down
the long hallway and into the sitting-
room. The white dog trotted at her heel.
Country men were very nice. Vicki
had always thought so ; though it was a
pity they cut their hair so short and wore
such tight coats. Outdoor work enlarged
their muscles, she supposed, and their
tailors just could not keep up with them.
She slept soundly that night to the flicker-
ing of a fire in her bedroom ; and in her
dreams she was followed by the eyes of
the overseer and the two jackeroos.
WHEN she woke, late the next morn-
ing, Crispin had disappeared from
the foot of her bed. The hollow in the
eiderdown was cold.
“Good morning. Aunt Elsa. Have you
seen Crispin? No, no chops, thank you.
But cream! I wonder if I dare?”
The men had breakfasted earlier, and
they were alone —two women in the
gaunt, high dining-room built to pioneer
measurements: twelve by twenty-four by
thirty-six. Vicki felt cold, lost, out of
place. Only cream could soothe her.
She went out after breakfast to look
for her dog.
“Well, Vicki?”
Colonel Graham had seen the men off
to the lambing-paddocks and was pacing
the sanded drive between winter flower-
beds, warming himself in the sun. This
was not his custom. Parrots flew swiftly,
like blood, through the haggard elms.
“Good morning, Uncle. Have you
seen Crispin? I’ve lost him.”
“All dressed for riding, I see.”
Graham doubted whether Vicki’s
jodhpurs would stand up to a hard day
in the saddle.
“You used to ride well.”
“But Crispin? Uncle! ”
The old man became tolerantly em-
barrassed, A dog would have his day.
The situation was amusing, but delicate.
He cleared his throat, pacing firmly,
shyly, by the side of his niece.
“We’ve had to lock up one of the
sheep-dogs—a kelpie bitch. She’s —ha —
unwell. Crispin . . .”
“Well!”
Vicki tossed back fair hair and
marched up the garden path to the dog-
kennels, her delicate head held primly
with disdain. The cold pinched out her
cheekbones.
“Really!”
Under a great casual gum-tree, where
grass grew thinly on the red rise behind
the huts, was a netted cage. A black
bitch barked in the cage, the station dogs
leapt, straining at their collars on the
chain, and Crispin, muddied and hollow,
sat with his nose to the wire-netting. He
saw Vicki coming and slunk sideways
behind the giant tree,
“Crispin! Come here.”
He snapped at Vicki’s fingers, shrink-
ing into the pockets at the tree’s foot.
She took him up and spanked him. Her
uncle, as she passed, carrying the dog at
arm’s length to the bathroom, saw the
angry white on the sharp bones of her
face. He thought that his niece did not
look her best in the morning.
Washed, dried, combed, Crispin was
half forgiven. He howled apologies
behind closed doors in the bedroom. And
Vicki, drinking morning tea on the broad
verandah, smiled. The view through the
elms—the hollowed green of the valley
and the brown and blue of hills —was
really very good. You could not see too
much of it. The howling ceased. Rising,
she looked sideways at her uncle and
aunt. Crispin was back in favor. He
would not be a silly boy again.
She found the bedroom empty and a
hole through the fly-gauze of the window.
That night she dressed in black.
It had been a mistake to come to the
country, anyway.
1 < A ND where, my dear, is Crispin?”
** They were sitting around the
knotted table in the dining-room, while
fires burned in the polo cups on the side-
board and silver shone white on the dark
wood. The room seemed to relax in the
company of men.
Colonel Graham had allowed his hand
to slip with the decanter that evening.
And now, from the head of the table,
he gazed at Vicki, compelling her to
raise her eyes, to smile. The others ate
as if in prayer.
“You know very well, Uncle George.”
The Colonel laughed..
“Well, well. Make a man of him!”
Smiling, Vicki lowered discreet lashes.
She turned to the young man next to her.
“I like a dog to be faithful,” she said.
“Don’t you?”
The young man blushed and coughed
into his soup.
“I’m fearfully sorry,” he said.
Then he nodded his head and blushed
again.
Vicki was feeling better; she was feel-
ing naughty. She liked young men, more
particularly if they were shy.
Going to bed early, she paused by his
chair.
“Sam,” she said. “I may call you
Sam, mayn’t I? I’m going riding in the
morning. Would you saddle a horse for
me? Early.”
“Yes. Yes, I will. Mrs. Glover.”
He had sprung up and was standing
awkwardly, for she was vejy close to
him.
“Good-night—Sam.”
“Good-night! ”
Sam Christie sat down very slowly as
if he doubted whether the chair was
really there,
WHEN Vicki went out after a man
she put her whole heart into the pre-
liminaries ; and its late breakage had not
impaired the warmth of that heart. But
oh! How stiff and sore her body was!
Her hair was streaked with sun; the
wind had slapped her cheeks to an unruly
glow. Only the curled light in her green
eyes was the same, as she turned now in
the glass—a small firm creature in out-
size slacks who had just finished a break-
fast of chops and cream.
In the doorway she turned again.
“Look, Sam! They fit quite well. I’ve
had to roll them up a bit at the bottoms
and pin them in a bit here; but, really,
they fit; they’ll do. Look at the pants,
Sam! ”
Sam followed her movements with eyes
of wonder.
But it had not been as easy as all that.
The first morning he had been heavy,
formal; shut up inside his awkwardness
so that whenever he spoke his prisoned
self sat critic, mocking him. They rode
through the sharp frost. Yes, it was very
cold. They came to a gate: Allow Sir
Galahad. And when Vicki swept him
with her eyes—an upward look that
finished just above his head as if he wore
a halo —he blinked his own eyes rapidly
and wiped a fictitious something from the
lid. He longed for a five-mile gallop;
to leave himself far behind.
And that is exactly what happened.
“Look! A fox!”
Before he could cough, Vicki was off
down the bridle-track between the timber
by the side of a steep sandy gully.
HE galloped fast behind, stung with
clods, with switches; and whenever
he tried to draw alongside, the trees
shouldered in, forcing him to check.
Once, he could have sworn she rode him
off, for he heard her low laughter.
Once, where a tree had fallen, he thought
he had her; she gave the pony its head.
And, until they came to a clearing, he was


kept in the rear, riding second to a city
doll in her show jodhpurs.
In the clearing his legs gripped the
black colt. It plunged forward; but
Vicki was drawing rein. Her eyes were
bright with the excitement of the chase
and blurred by the wind.
“Where’s the fox?” Sam cried, gal-
loping by ; coming back he said, “I didn’t
see it.”
“Oh, a big red fox—in the gully.”
He looked at her frankly now, dis-
believing ; and she looked back with frank
coquetry.
“I didn’t know you could ride like
that.”
“Oh, there are a lot of things you
don’t know about me. This, for in-
stance . . . No, it would embarrass you.”
“What is it, Mrs. Glover?”
“Vicki,” she said. “I much prefer
Vicki. And Sam: you won’t mind?
I’ve had an accident. My pants have
split right down the seam at the side
here. That’s right, you ride on that side
so you can’t see my panties —though
they’re rather sweet: pink with lace.”
“Maybe,” Sam said, “we could fix your
trousers with a bit of fencing-wire.”
Vicki threw back her hair and laughed
a long little musical laugh.
“Oh, Sam,” she said. “You know,
really, I like you now. I’m glad I came.
I thought you would be nice.” And
looking at him and laughing again, she
said, “Could you really fix them with
fencing-wire?”
“I’ll try,” Sam said.
Suddenly he halted his horse and looked
at her.
“You didn’t really see a fox, did you?”
“No, Sam; but it broke the ice.”
They sat there for a long while look-
ing into each other’s eyes.
“I’ve never met anyone like you be-
fore,” Sam said. “I’m a bit lost. But
I like it.”
After that, he could not keep his eyes
from hers. It was a kind of embrace,
more intimate than any kiss he had ever
known.
At noon they boiled their quarts, sit-
ting with their backs against a still
.tree. The flames were transparent, the
wood crumbling without apparent cause ;
and, meeting her eyes, he felt the same
process going on in his own body.
They rode home out of a yellow sky.
Night came up behind shrinking hills,
edged with crimson ; the horses plodded
the hard road, their ears flopping; and
without a word, they held hands. They
could not see, but their hands met.
“U/ELL, well. Any trouble?”
V V “No, uncle. But what a perfect
day! ”
Vicki’s face was vivid ; her eyes shone
with a green lustre. Christie watched her
with moving eyes. The Colonel smiled.
“And Crispin,” he said. “How’s
Crispin today?”
“Oh, 1 expect the yardman gave him
a few scraps.”
Her aunt rose to see what had happened
to the coffee.
Crispin was forgotten until the Satur-
day, Then, as usual, Colonel Graham
loaned the utility to the overseer and the
jackeroos to play in the local cricket
team; and they drove straight to the pub,
where they crammed a week’s drinking
into one afternoon. Sam Christie did
not go.
Instead, he paced the back verandahs
of the quarters, waiting for Vicki. He
was in anguish lest she should not come,
and in fear of her coming.
“Hello, there!”
Vicki was dressed in green corduroys
and a grey sweater. The sweater fitted
very tightly. Christie was suddenly shy.
Somehow this was different from out
in the paddocks. It was the continuation
of a dream that he really did not believe
in now that he was back among the
furnishings of his usual world: the
kangaroo-skin nailed out on the door, his
bleak bedroom, the photographs on the
dressing-table.
He met Vicki’s eye and the kangaroo-
skin began to fade.
They sat down on the bed with an
old album on their knees.
“That’s the old man,” Christie said.
“Not a good photo. There’s my sister ;
and me aged ten.” For some reason that
afternoon the photographs had lost their
lustre. “There’s a better one . . . Vicki,
you’re not looking!”
“No,” she said. “I’m looking at you.”
He returned her humid gaze with
young eyes.
Slowly the photographs yellowed ; the
room was blotted out. There were only
these miraculous, unexplored labyrinths
of feeling. They were not real.
< (|__J O —hum! ”
Vicki yawned as she walked
down the garden path. She had recovered
from her stiffness and was feeling really
well; but tired —so tired.
“Uncle,” she said, “I can hardly keep
my eyes open.”
She had met him on the path.
“Well, you’ve had a busy week, my
dear. You’re looking blooming, though.
By the way, you ought to see to that dog
of yours. He’s not too good.”
“Oh, the poor darling! I’ve been
neglecting him.”
She was filled with remorse, hurrying
uphill to the dog kennels. Crispin had
dug a hole in the red soil against the
buried netting of the cage and he lay in
the hole soiled and worn.. The black
bitch barked joyously at her approach.
Vicki picked the limp bundle up in her
arms and carried him to her room. She
washed him, she listened to the cook’s
complaints, wheedling raw liver for him ;
but Crispin would not play, he would not
eat. He lay full length on the eiderdown
with his chin on a fold. Vicki became
very worried.
And then an idea occurred to her.
“Oh, the poor darling!” She picked
him up and half rocked him, half danced
with him around the bedroom. “Oh, my
poor, poor darling—he’s in love.”
“Darling,” she said, “I must take you
back to town where you’ll forget all
about her.”
She began packing immediately.
“Uncle,” she said, “there’s a train to-
morrow, isn’t there? I must take Crispin
back to town. He isn’t well.”
At the head of the table Colonel
Graham became old with laughter.
“Oh, dear me,” he said, wiping the
corners of his eyes with his table-
napkin. “There’ll be a lot of sickness
about tomorrow.”
Under the table Vicki pressed her
knee against Sam Christie’s.
“You’ll come and see us when you’re
down in town. Promise, Sam.”
Christie did not raise his eyes from his
soup—which was very silly of him, be-
cause she was only thinking of what was
best for her dog.
THE next morning she insisted that he
should go with them to the railway.
The train pulled in, scattering the galahs,
and she kissed her uncle good-bye on the
forehead and Christie on the cheek.
“Don’t forget when you’re down.
Soon, Sam.”
“You’re looking splendid,” Graham
said. “Wouldn’t know you for the same
girl.”
Sam Christie was thinking the same
thing.
Nothing was real any more.
He watched the train move out through
desolation.
And Vicki, seeing him standing there
on the toy platform, was reminded of
something. She withdrew her head from
the window and tucked Crispin up in his
gilt basket.
The Doldrums.
Here are silence, sleep, for all hut water
Which, strangely, too, is silent, but awake,
Aware and watchful, in unearthly lull.
How can our crew bear one report of\
laughter
That will not blow away, but like the
black
Blast from a gun, hangs like a madden-
ing pall?
Such laughter in the doldrums kills our
men.
I stir the waters, for, if they would smile
Or gurgle with an eddy round our timbers,
We’d dream our lives moved somewhere ;
if, but then.
Towards an end. Our deaths would not
smell vile
As life that smoulders out in its own
embers
Of blackened rags scorched on this sun-
bleached deck.
But, hear? The coxswain laughs and he
leaps over,
Whelmed by the fancy that he cannot
die —
It has been so long waiting. Now ten
check
That cannonade of mirth that will dis-
cover
Mutiny in the crew. How can I lie ?
I’ll say the boy was mad: I’ll filch his
brains.
Forgotten, how he stayed with us in
reason
Until the doldrums , got him; started
mirth
And tears, and frenzy, like the sudden
rains
That might yet come upon us out of
season:
Next tribulation, monsoons from the
north.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.
The Swallows
By S. MOREY
OLD STEVE BIGNALL lives in a
bit of a cottage at the top of a
thickly timbered hill. His reputa-
tion in the district is that he isn’t
quite right in the head. All the same
he’s somewhat of an authority on Tas-
manian bird-life. Most readers of our
local newspaper, the “Advocate,” know
his articles. Long, rather tedious ones,
which he cuts out and hoards in an old
tobacco-jar, digging them out to be read
aloud whenever his friends give him the
slightest encouragement.
He seldom comes down our way —and
then generally to blow up the storekeeper
for some imaginary mistake in his
accounts —but when he does he always
drops in at the schoolhouse for a cup of
tea.
One exceptionally cold afternoon at
the beginning of April he dropped in as
usual. While I was
plying him with tea
and bread and jam
he told me, with a
good deal of excite-
ment, that there was
still a swallow up at
his place.
From observations
ranging over more
than thirty years he
had fixed the time
of departure of local
swallows at about
the middle of March.
He said that some
swallows in other
parts of the State
remain a bit longer,
and that it wasn’t
uncommon for a few
scattered birds to
stay throughout the
entire winter. But
never, in the whole of his thirty years’
experience, had he known it to happen
in our district.
He had watched the migration. It had
begun on the 16th of March, just before
dusk. On the 17th at about the same time,
the rearguard set off. Steve went back
to his cottage, after watching it out of
sight, telling himself that he’d seen the
last of the swallows until next August.
But in the morning there was this lonely-
looking bird hopping about his garden.
“I expect it had a damaged wing or
something,” I suggested.
“No. I had a good look at it. It flies
well enough. It’s got a nest up over the
attic window, and it’s always flying up
and down to it.”
“Then it’s probably not as strong as
the others. Not strong enough to tackle
a long flight.”
“It looks strong enough to me,” said
Old Steve. “It’s got me beat.”
I DIDN’T see him again for more than
1 a fortnight.
“That swallow’s still up there,” he
burst out, the next time he dropped in.
“And what d’ y’ thing it’s up to? It’s
rearing a clutch of young up there over
the attic window.”
“So’s your grandmother,” I said. “Any-
one knows that the swallows’ breeding
season is over by the end of January.
This is April.”
But he was sure of it. Day after day
he told me he had watched the bird
carrying food up to the nest.
He had tried to reach the nest from
the branches of an apple-tree beneath it,
but he wasn’t tall enough. The nest, he
explained, was cemented on to the highest
point of the gable end of his cottage.
“But you could reach it easily enough,”
he said slyly. “What about coming up
after school tomorrow and having a go
at it?”
THERE was a pleasant bush track to
his cottage. Half-way up it next after-
noon I was greeted by one of Old Steve’s
pets, an elderly rosella suffering from
chronic bad temper. While I was making
swipes at him Steve showed up at the
top of the hill and called him off. He
hurried down to meet me, apologising
for the rosella, which, he claimed (and
with good reason, I thought) was as good
as a watchdog.
We went through the gate into an old
garden, trying to talk above the con-
tinuous chatter of birds. They were every-
where, roosting in the trees and sweeping
all over the place. Then, a little apart,
looking extremely lonely, we caught sight
of the remarkable swallow. It was hopping
over the short, tussocky grass and shiver-
ing in the chill wind.
While we stood there watching, it darted
at something at the base of a tree. Grab-
bing with its sharp, black bill it flew up
to the nest over the attic window.
Steve gave a satisfied grunt. He was
staring up to where a tiny tail quivered
on the edge of the nest.
“Can’t y’ see the head of another bird
up there?” he said. “Look. Now—there
it is.”
I gazed upwards until my neck ached,
but could see nothing.
THEN he hurried me over to the apple-
tree. I clambered into it, thanking
heaven for its strong old branches. With
Steve dancing about below, directing
operations, I swung myself from branch
to branch. While I was clinging in mid-
air the swallow
swooped past me,
then flew round and
round my head.
I reached up until
I could see into the
nest. A fully-grown
swallow was sitting
there, its eyes bright
with alarm. I put
out my hand towards
it. It flapped its
wings with fright,
but didn’t fly off. The
other bird, flying
round and round me
with a wild whirring
of its wings, struck
at me once as it
passed. Hurriedly I
felt inside the nest,
under the warm,
feathered body.
“N o fledglings
here,” I was just going to shout down to
Steve, when the bird strained away from
my hand in great agitation, and I suddenly
discovered why it hadn’t flown off.
One of its claws was stuck fast in the
hard mud pellets of the nest.
It must have been a prisoner there since
it was hatched. But it was sleek and well-
fed —far sleeker and better-fed than the
parent-bird that had stayed to feed it.
Above the claw the leg was broken.
I snipped through the dried skin with my
pocketknife. The bird flew away over
my head. As it rose above the roof of the
cottage the other swallow flew to join it.
We watched while they swooped buoy-
antly over the trees, wheeled and dipped
for half a minute, then disappeared.
They were back in the evening, old
Steve told me later, and remained
throughout the winter. So that when the
swallows returned in the spring they were
greeted by the short, sweet cries of these
two, one of which, alas, had only one
claw.
“Why Sweep Away the Leaves P”
Last summer a miracle shone :
Hands here in the sun
That rippling with a finger rhythm
Drew lyrics down,
Green and passionate
Beside this gate.
Can eyes that saw them dancing come
So soon forget ?
Why sweep away the leaves?
Earth but retrieves
In dead but golden delicacy .
The strength she gives,
When, to the caress of spring.
Goes out murmuring
Her wild and slumbrous blood to the
tree
And bears a song.
Why sweep away the leaves ?
For they are waves
Returning to the tide that swells
In under-caves
And moves the beauty of hours.
These are not ours
To burn that once lipped peace like
bells
Above flowers.
N.S.W.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM.


33h
. mine
/ like the
EXTRA flavour
Wm
S
mm
1.
•m.
mm
: •
m
i
li
y '- -.5
■
I
5S m S
/I
vm
STATE
.A
« »
76*0-9.49
df
d
“It’s easier to do business
with a man than an address!”
fd
As my firm’s export manager, I find it pays to
do business with a man and not just an address.
Correspondence is cut to the bone, misunder-
standings are prevented, problems are discussed
and solved right on the spot.
That’s where Speedbird service and 8.0.A.C.’s
175,000 miles of world-wide air routes come in. 8.0.A.C. usually
flies where I want to go, and Speedbird service gets me or my freight
there in a hurry and right on schedule. Arranging my trips is easy.
The local 8.0.A.C. Appointed Agent fixes everything. No crowds or
confusion, and no red tape. Everything goes like clock-work, but
with this important difference : there’s the personal touch!
About the actual flight . . . it’s good, really good from beginning
to end. If you’re hungry, you can eat wonderful
food “on the house” too. If you’re tired,
the comfortable seats practically lull you to sleep.
Everything and I mean everything reflects
8.0.A.C.’s 30-year-old tradition of Speedbird
service and Speedbird experience.
►N
GREAT BRITAIN • USA • BERMUDA • CANADA • WEST INDIES • CENTRAL
AND SOUTH AMERICA • MIDDLE EAST • WEST AFRICA • EAST AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA • PAKISTAN • INDIA • CEYLON • AUSTRALIA • NEW
ZEALAND • FAR EAST • JAPAN
8.0.A.C. TAKES GOOD CARE OF YOU
FLY * BOA C „
Information & Bookings: Qantas Empire Airways Ltd., Sydney
Melbourne, Brisbane, Townsville, Cairns, Darwin {General Agents in
Australia), or from Booking Agents in all cities, t
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS EMPIRE AIR-
WAYS LTD., TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD. & SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS
DOSSY IS BACK
By “COL M.”
WHEN Bossy is eventually
trampled flat one evening
getting on to the train to
his suburb, there will be
found in his inside right pocket
a wallet in which is filed, under
the flap devoted to the pleas of
two insurance companies for
payment, a hand-written letter
signed by one Albert Greeley.
Some homeward - bound
stenographer, methodical even in
her sympathy, might think to
move it to the personal-corres-
pondence section. It belongs
where it is. It insures Bossy
against ever going dairyfarming
again. And it reminds him of
his gratitude to a dog named
Rastus, and a man whose name
he didn’t catch.
As warning to those who think
nostalgically sometimes about
gumleaves and mosquito-coils,
and for those who just like
reading other folk’s mail, this is
Mr. Greeley’s letter as he wrote
it:
“Forgive me for not replying
earlier, but everything is in order
now. It’s glorious here. I’m
sure you’ll like dairyfarming and
the country life.”
It was the reply to a letter
Bossy had written Mr. Greeley
some time before. He was tired
of the city life —newspaper-
boards that changed every time
you looked at them, for ever
saying something worse;
restaurants where you could
choose between indigestion or
being fried in the glare of the
queue still lined up for the rite
of eating; ambulances howling
down the wrong side of streets;
being a mere flute in an orchestra
half a page behind its mad con-
ductor ; nine o’clock, hang it
up—five o’clock, put it on.
“Mr. Greeley,” wrote Dossy,
“I want to start life anew. I
want to learn all I can about
animals, so that I can eventually
start a farm of my own, and so
become independent.”
This was brought on by
Bossy’s fishing holiday on the
lake that passed by Mr. Gree-
ley’s property, and by thoughts,
while winding in the last flat-
head - line and cleaning the
bottom of the frying-pan to go
home, that he wouldn’t see the
place again for twelve months.
As he was sighing at the sadness
of it all, he happened to notice
Mr. Greeley draped across his
fence and began with him the
conversation that led eventually
to their interchange of mail, and
Bossy’s arrival one night about
six weeks later, with his wife, at
Mr. Greeley’s farm, with all they
possessed in a furniture wagon
two hours behind, and three
hundred miles behind that the
city. So much for the evils of
fishing.
THEY were given food and
beds, and after milking next
morning Mr. Greeley asked
Bossy to come down and inspect
the house that was to be his. It
was set on the shore of a lake.
a big sprawling building with
verandahs all around, and for
the first week they were in it the
Dossies seemed to keep finding
new rooms. Counting every-
thing there were fourteen, six
of which were usable. In the
others the white-ants had left
only the paint, and the wind and
rain coming in through the
broken jagged windows had done
the rest. But to a couple from
a room with gas-ring it was a
palace. Mr. Greeley and Dossy
climbed down the hill from the
dairy and stood outside.
Mr. Greeley was in his
seventies. He looked about fifty,
had knotted muscles on his
brown forearms, leading to hands
that were white and soft from
milking. When speaking he
loojced over one’s shoulder as if
at someone behind.
He put his hand on the gate.
“I thought I’d bring you down
here alone,” he said, “without
your wife. You’ll be able to
explain things a bit better for
her than I could. I was born
in this house. You’ll find out
when you get inside that it’s
gone to the dogs a bit. But
you’ll work on it. I’ll buy the
paint and the window-glass.”
They moved inside, along the
hall, with the hardwood floors
ringing.
“You’ll be able to work this
place up to something,” said
Mr. Greeley, “but it might be a
bit of a shock to your wife as
it is. You never know with
women. Tell her what it’s like
when you’re bringing her down
later 01. And when you get her
here, take her straight through
out to the back and show her
the view. That’s the prettiest
view on the coast. When the
mists come down off the moun-
tains it’s like England” . , ,
Mr. Greeley stopped short.
He stared at what had been a
vegetable garden and reddened
about the ears.
“The garden—l paid the
people that were here before to
keep the vegetables going—look
at it! Blast! They broke some
windows, too.”
He was silent for a moment.
“You’ll find,” he said, “that
there are some good people
and some bad. I’ll see that you
meet the right ones. You ought
to be able to get that garden
going again quickly. Glorious
soil. Volcanic. I own this side
of the lake, both ways, and back
as far as the road. I started
with nothing. Don’t come up
to the dairy for a couple of days.
Get your things straight. Then
wc can talk about work.”
Mr. Greeley stumped off up
the hill. He paused for a
moment and looked back at the
uprooted vegetable garden.
“They’ll keep,” he yelled.
“Blast!”
FIVE weeks later Dossy and
his wife were really settled
in. She had learned to get heat
from the fuel stove, and he to
get milk from a cow. By city
standards he was doing a hard
day’s work before breakfast.
He had learned to appreciate
that a can of whey is just so
much lighter than a can of milk,
and that there is no animal so
belligerently unpredictable as a
four-day-old heifer calf being
taught to drink out of a pail.
He had cut down his smokes and
was eating like a horse. They
were healthy. By the rules laid
down by the Fellowship of the
Gumleaf Lovers and Addicts of
the Coil Mosquito, they should
have also been happy.
Notable among the events of
that first five weeks was one that
did not happen. Dossy had not
yet been paid. He was never too
clear as to how much this would
be. He did feel pessimistic once
when Mr. Greeley complained to
him of the fact that he had to
pay “the basic wage!” to old
Albie, who was, in Mr. Gree-
ley’s estimation, a “ne’er-do-
well” and had been that way for
the thirty years he had employed
him.
This nebulous amount Dossy
awaited varied with conditions.
While cutting blackberries it
was at least £8 a week and
would be demanded with a sharp
and terrible speech, improved
and becoming brilliant as every
stroke of his fernhook honed it
in his mind. But while sitting
out on the verandah in the even-
ings looking across the golden
lake at the island, listening to
the squabbling waterhens,
warmed with a good dinner,
“Keep would be sufficient, thank
you, Mr. Greeley.”
However, at the end of five
weeks, Dossy decided to ask him
for it. He went over to Mr.
Greeley’s house from the dairy.
Mr. Greeley was hosing his
garden. He heard the gate click
and read off Dossy’s face against
the pages of his fifty years’ ex-
perience ; and Dossy was a sur-
prised man when, without either
party having mentioned the sub-
ject of wages before this, Mr.
Greeley smiled and said,
“You’ve come for your cheque.
Hold the hose on the flowers and
I’ll get it for you.”
He came out of his house
again and handed across a
cheque for fourteen pounds.
Dossy folded it silently and put
it in his pocket. His Ideal began
to lean a little. He felt an urge
to pull up vegetables,.
WORKING on his farm Mr,
Greeley had a nephew
called Arthur. It was remarkable
that a conversation started by
any of the hands in the bails
would be taken up by this pair,
and patted around until it took
the shape of an argument, and
then they would keep it alive as
they spoke from their milking-
blocks, as they got up now and
then to let a cow out or a new
one in, as they emptied their
pails in the cooler, and dipped
their hands into the bucket of
soapy hot water which all must
use in a hand-milking show and
which always stood near Mr.
Greeley, whenever he happened
to be milking.
One morning Arthur an-
nounced that he had bought a
dog, Shannasy’s pointer Rastus.
“Why?” asked Mr. Greeley.
“That’s my affair. It’s a fine
dog. It’ll be good for the kids.”
“What did you pay for it?”
“Now what’s that got to do
with you? I paid a tenner, but
it’s got a good pedigree.”
“Then the ticks will kill it.”
“But they won’t! They’re just
as bad at Shannasy’s. The dog’s
immune.”
“There’s no such thing as be-
ing permanently immune to
ticks.”
“I know that.”
“Well?”
“Anyway, I might be able to
work the dog. He’s trained.
Ducks come down as far as the
island sometimes.”
“How long since you’ve seen
any ducks there? And if my
memory serves me right, I think
it’s a sanctuary.”
“You know everything. The
great ‘I Know.’ Well, it’s a good
dog. The kids’ll like him.”
Thus Rastus entered the
scheme of things.


JEWELLERY
SAUNDERS
A Gift of saunders jewellery has permanent value —it is
a Gift that keeps on Giving through the years.
So use saunders speedy Mail Order Service, and this
Christmas give Jewellery.
DIAMONDS! The loveliest
fd
SAUNDERS Ring with bril-
liant centre Diamond in
square setting with COC
curved sides. 18ct. Gold*'“^
fd
SAUNDERS strikingly -beauti-
ful pillar design ring set with
2 Sparkling doublercut
Diamonds. 18ct. Gold
f
SAUNDERS Delightfully
styled Oct. Gold stone-
set pendant and chain.
In colours of Blue, Green,
Topaz, Amethyst, Of) /
Ruby, Aquamarine*''/ "
df
SAUNDERS Solid Oct.
Gold Cross and Chain.
Cross has beautifully
hand engraved ends. A
lovely Christ- OO /L
mas Gift .. *>*/ °
d
SAUNDERS Ring, 2
Diamonds in Square
perfectly carved.
18ct. White Gold ..
glorious
setting,
£45
fd
SAUNDERS sparkling, single
Diamond “Coronet” style ring
with thrilling hand-made fili-
gree mounting of 18ct. £&0
a
m
I V'-V.iff-
W?
or
SAUNDERS 9ct. Gold stone-set Brooch in six thrilling
Colours —Blue, Green, Topaz, Amethyst,
Ruby and Aquamarine
£5/10/-
fd
Beautiful Oct. Gold Brooch, in dainty twisted rope
setting, with Rosette shoulders. Available EC /
in six lovely colours “
f
Man’s Solid Oct. Gold
Heavyweight Dress Ring
with Red Stone in secure
claw setting. Hand-
carved c c / c /
shoulders ....
Man’s Solid 9ct. Gold
Signet Ring, of Modern
Tablet design. Set with
Red Stone, and has CL
panel for initials .;
df
SAUNDERS Lady’s
Solid Oct. Gold stone-
set Dress Ring in
dainty hand-made set-
ting available CA /
in six colours “
df
SAUNDERS Lady’s
Solid 9ct. Gold Signet
Ring in popular shield
design. Has deeply
carved Ort /
shoulders ... &**/ m
d
SAUNDERS Man’s Hand-
some Oct. Gold Signet
Ring with tablet for
initials and heavily EC J m
carved shoulders.. **/
Heavyweight 80/-
fd
SAUNDERS Heavyweight
Oval Pattern Signet Ring
in Solid Oct. Gold. A
manly Ring and an QC /_
ideal Christmas Gift ' "/
Jewellery Mail
Orders Reg.
Post Free.
Safe arrival
Guaranteed.
'/"/11l
V.
/M
m
-a
n
Man’s 3-pieco Brush Set in silk-
lined presentation box. The hair
and cloth brushes are of good
wearing quality and have smart
chrome and tortoiseshell-coloured
mounts. A useful Gift CO IC
for a man w
Others from .. 10/6 to £ll/11/-
ORDER
NOW
FOR
CHRISTMAS !
Clack and Brown Morocco
Tobacco Pouch, with pocket
for papers. A handy OA /
Gift for a smoker ..
Others from 8/fl
New Beauty in Modern Brush ware!
In 3 glorious pastel colours of Pink, Blue or Pale Green
—to tone with her Boudoir. The Hair and Cloth
Brushes have crisp, clean NYLON Bristles. Truly, a
lovely Christmas Gift for a Lady—and at "JO /A
SAUNDERS ONLY # O/ W
Other Brush Sets 37/6 to £3O
Write for SAUNDERS FREE Coloured Diamond Ring and
Gift Book containing hundreds of Gift suggestions. Write
NOWj and mention “The Bulletin” please.
SAUNDERS Xylonite Shaving Com-
pact, Has mirror, bowl, and brush
holder, and folds into compact shape
for travelling. A Gift he 34 /A
will use every day V ~
Others from S9/9 to 40/-
mm
Here’s another useful
and lasting Gift- —a
SAUNDERS Silver-
plated Toast Rack of
A 1 quality. 18/6
5 Bar size.. ■ w / w
7 Bar size 25/-
Mail Order Freight Free in N.S.W.
SAIINDE
Sydney’s Leading Jewellers since IS7B
805-13 GEORGE STREET, RAILWAY SQUARE, SYDNEY.
jfED
r* HRTSTMAS was coming,
. an d Dossy was taken into
village politics. One morning
while he waited at the store for
the paper-truck, the storekeeper
came out on to his verandah and
sat on the step above him and
started rolling a smoke.
“You know, Dossy,” he said.
“I don’t think you’d find another
place like this anywhere. There
are the usual two factions in it
—all little towns are like that —
only here, at the moment, you
might call them the Wet and the
Dry ? like sandpaper. No one
knows when this row started
first. It’s been about sheep and
goats, Jerseys and Shorthorns,
but for the last six years it’s
been about grog.
“Now, your boss is the Right
Grand Dry—l’ve seen him bit
by a snake and knock back a
glass of real benedictine and ask
for tea. The other mob’s the
ones you mix with when I see
you slip up to the pub for a quiet
one after work. From that I
gather that you know your boss’s
views on ale and such, but I
don’t think you know how strong
the feeling is with the others.
“Every Christmas your boss
has put on a non-alcoholic
function in his grounds. Actu-
ally it was always financed
partly by the Parents and Citizens’
movement at the school —but it
has been staged in his grounds.
It’s for the children —prize-
giving and a party.
“The Wets have gone along
and been dry and wished there
was a keg under a tree some-
where. They’ve really always
wanted to put on a party of
their own. Well, this year
there was one more Wet
than Dry on the Parents and
Citizens’ and they had a meet-
ing last night and voted it on.
“I believe your boss was real
wild when he heard about it
and says he’s going to finance
a party of his own, so we’ll have
two this year, but you won’t be
able to hear the Herald Angels
singing ’cause of the row.
“Now, I’ve been asked to in-
vite you to the village party. It’ll
be on on the twenty-third, a
couple of days after your boss’s.
He will probably mention the
matter, and I can see your posi-
tion. You haven’t exactly got
yow roots in yet. But then, if
you don’t go to their party the
village mob mightn’t understand.
I’m in the same boat. I’ve only
got this place on lease from
him. But the Wets are my bread
and butter —the Drys are only
the jam. I’m going to both.
Hope I see you there.”
All of which left Dossy feel-
ing like a tool with handles at
both ends.
DOSSY had not quite de-
cided what to do when the
twenty-third came along, judg-
ment day. He and Mr. Greeley
weren’t hitting it off too well;
Dossy, because he knew the
other better now; Mr. Greeley,
for what he termed Dossy’s.
“total lack of farming instincts.”
The Ideal was up on one corner.
The city was beckoning Dossy
with its emissaries, the daily
papers Temptation, printed,
folded, and done up with his
name on it.
That morning Dossy had been
asked to get a bag of sand for
cement, had lugged up fifty
pounds of what he thought was
good, and learned that it was
useless.
Mr. Greeley, on his horse, led
Dossy back along the lake-bank
to show him where to get “real”
sand. They moved along in
silence. Mr. Greeley pointed
out the spot and waited while
Dossy filled the bag. And then,
out of the blue, it came.
“You know,” he said, “if you
go along to that thing at the
village tonight, you’ll be finished
here. I’ll class you as I class
them all. I won’t have any of
my people going to it.”
Dossy at that moment was
mentally easing himself down in
the plush of a city theatre. His
spade rattled down on the gravel.
“Look here, Mr. Greeley, you
may go to Hell. I will go where
I wish.”
Mr. Greeley jagged his horse
around and rode away.
Dossy and his wife went to
the village party with some of
the hands, and he turned up for
milking next morning and no-
thing was said. But he had
crossed Mr. Greeley. He knew
it would only be a matter of
time. He would have to move
on.
That evening Dossy sat with
his wife out on the verandah in
the cool.
“Supposing,” he said, “I
hadn’t picked Greeley. Sup-
posing I’d picked out the easiest
man in the world to get along
with. I think it would have
taken just that much longer to
realise that I didn’t like the life,
and I think ifis the life, not just
the man. In a way I should be
thanking him for stopping me
from wasting a lot more time.”
They sat there quietly for a
while looking at the water, and
then his wife spoke.
“Are you sure you want to go
back? I don’t mind it here.
I’ve really enjoyed myself. You
know I’d be happy either way.”
But when Dossy said “dead
sure,” there was something like
a diamond in her eyes. They
talked excitedly about the city,
and what it would be like start-
ing back in his old job, if they’d
have him. They talked for
nearly an hour and then sat and
looked at the gathering night.
“You know,” she said, “there’s
one thing I’d like to see before
1 go. I’d like to see Mr. Gree-
ley get a good swift kick in the
pants.”
Out of the light turning down
in the west appeared a black
speck. It swelled as they
watched it and split into many
smaller specks that gradually
fanned out and spread across the
sky. They moved over the house,
now in slow arrowheads,
wheeled and settled down on the
lake. They were ducks.
DOSSY went up to the dairy
next morning and told Mr.
Greeley he was finished, Mr.
Greeley became friendly again
immediately. He thought Dossy
was wise. You really had to be
born on the land to be a success
at it. They could live on at the
house until they left. Dossy
thanked him and went into the
cooler to get his house-milk, as
Rastus loped in across the pad-
dock.
As he turned the tap Dossy
heard Mr. Greeley talking to the
dog.
“Looking for that nephew of
mine, eh? Won’t find him here.
Gone to town for two days. A
pedigree, eh? Come here. Boy,
you have got lines. A glorious
head and a pedigree. Two days.
Want some milk? Albie, pour
some milk in that can for Rastus
here. Two days! ”
Dossy thought he heard Mr.
Greeley whistling.
He left the dairy and walked
up to the village to get the
papers. He let it be known that
he was a free man again. He
asked the storekeeper if he
would sound out the trucking
company on their ability to take
a load of furniture back to the
brightlights, soon.
Later, as he turned in the road-
*gate and started down along the
car-tracks, he met a stranger who
was fixing up a tent beside the
car he had driven in.
“Goo’day,” said the man.
“Will it be all right if I camp
here? Only tonight. I’m going
up to the pub for dinner, but
when I’m lucky enough to get
out of town in weather like this
I like to sleep in the open.”
Dossy told him he thought it
would be all right. The man wore
a grey dustcoat over a serge suit,
but he didn’t try to sell Dossy
anything. He pointed down at
the ducks.
“They’re a great sight,” he
said. “I’d hate to have to count
’em. They’ve come down be-
cause of the drought. It must
be bad. Never seen so many
of ’em this far out before. Plenty
of feed here, though.”
They talked for a while and
Dossy went his way.
NEXT morning very early
Dossy heard the shots.
Twelve-gauge, both barrels, and
{Continued on page 33.)


AUSTRALIA’S LOWEST-PRICED
10 H.P. SEDAN
L
VS ' -vooo
wmmmm
mm
.
rv
mem,.
WM
mm
m mmtm
nw
* * %
%
■
mm
;iii|?p;^
1 ■ ■■
'
i m m
* > #
■
*X;>: Ys£
- %k
> iVy
<.> X> V
s ?
Look at Prefect’s smart new styling! Modern
as the minute, yet in classic good taste.
Prefect is still Australia’s lowest priced Sedan
—with full comfort for four big grown-ups,
10 h.p. economy, sterling reliability and the
backing of widespread service facilities,
through nation-wide Ford Service Stations.
fd
FP92-24
Your local Ford Distributor or Dealer will be glad to give you full details.
FOUP MOTOR COMPANY OF liUSTIMlift m. ITD. (!NC, IN VIC.) REG, OFFICE: GEELONG, m.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RONALD CHARLES DAVIS.—TAKE
NOTICE that JOYCE KATHLEEN DAVIS
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2462
of 1949 on the grounds of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance by the 17th
day of January 1950 at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney and
a copy of the petition may be had with-
out charge from S. S. MITCHELL, Soli-
citor, of Bank Comer, Wickham, New-
castle, or his Sydney Agent, MR. J. K.
DIXON, Solicitor, of 115 Pitt Street,
Sydney.— (l.s.) J. DOUGHAN, Registrar
in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALBERT EDWARD BRAGG late of
Blacktown.—TAKE NOTICE that MYRA
DORIS BRAGG has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3467 of 1949 on the grounds
of habitual drunkenness during three years
and upwards and cruelty and habitual
drunkenness during three years and up-
wards and leaving the Petitioner without
the means of support If you wish to de-
fend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
Sydney by the Bth February 1950 and
obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from JOHN CHARLES PAYNTER,
Solicitor, of St. James Buildings, 107-
109 Elizabeth Street, Sydney, New South
Wales.—(L.s.) J. DOUGHAN, Registrar
in Divorce.
Personal and Missing Friends.
HAYES, Charles.—WOULD any person
claiming to be or knowing the whereabouts
of the next-of-kin of CHARLES HAYES,
who died on 30th September, 1947, at
Douglas Park, N.S.W., kindly communi-
cate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 19
O’Connell Street, Sydney?
RE CHARLES LEAFE JENKINS.
ANY person knowing the whereabouts of
CHARLES LEAFE JENKINS believed
born in United Kingdom and to have re-
sided in Perth, Western Australia, about
20 years ago, is asked to communicate
with the undersigned. Such information
will be to the advantage of Charles Leafe
Jenkins.—NICHOLSON & NICHOLSON,
Solicitors, 97 St. George’s Terrace, Perth,
Western Australia.
MOSS.—WILL CYRIL MOSS, son of the
late HENRIETTA MOSS, write at once to
THE EQUITY TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
& AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED, 472
Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Executor *- Trustee - Attorney
'TVrAT
A BULWARK
Against Misfortune
When you appoint Burns Philp Trust
Company Limited as your executor or trustee, you
show sound judgement. The administration of your
estate will, one day, become the responsibility of ex-
perienced directors and capable officers. Your family’s
interests will be fully protected at every turn by this
permanent and solidly financed institution.
"Hands That Never Leave the Wheel " explains how
the Company can assist you. A complimentary copy of
this interesting booklet will be forwarded on request.
MANAGER: L. S. Parker SECRETARY; E. R. Overton, F.F.I.A.
COMPANY LIMITED
Constituted by Special Act of the N.S.W. Parliament
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
James Burns
P. T. W. Black
Joseph Mitchell
Eric Priestley Lee
Burns Philp Trust
Tel. BU 5901
Box 543, G.P.0., Sydney
BPI 4-49
THE SERVICE MAN.
Mr. Chifley and
Defence.
“Ek Dum”: A search of the
rolls of the Commonwealth
Literary Fund for a grant of a
fellowship to the Prime Minister
is fruitless, but on the evidence
of his policy-speech and its refer-
ences to defence it is a wonder
that that Leftist body has
neglected him.
“In 1947,” he said, speaking
of defence, “the Labor Govern-
ment announced a five years’
defence programme which is now
estimated to cost £295,000,000.
This is the first time in Aus-
tralian history that there had
been a programme of such
magnitude and giving continuity
of development.
“The present strength of the
permanent naval forces is 10,148.
Before the war the total was
5264. Permanent military forces
total 14,861 as against 3863 in
1939. The R.A.A.F. has a
strength of 9073, but it was only
3489 pre-war.”
Every line of this is deceptive,
but so great is the Prime
Minister’s talent for fiction that
it reaches the brain without
causing the sort of shock which
it might be expected to cause.
There was no recalling by the
speaker of the fact that in 1939
the “Labor” party, which now
takes so much pride in the
scope of its defence opera-
tions, was opposed to the
strength of the forces as they
then were ; that they had earlier,
when in office, killed the citizen
forces, that they were opposed
to defending New Guinea, and
that they opposed the building
of the graving-dock which proved
of so much value during the war.
And nobody would imagine that
the Administration for which
Mr. Chifley speaks was unable to
provide the powerful naval air-
force which Britain sent here in
1945 with a suitable aerodrome
on which to train a few men or
that it allowed dock labor to get
so much out of hand that, with
one of the most powerful grav-
ing-docks in the world in sight
of his headquarters, Admiral
Fraser was compelled to send
destroyers to Auckland to have
the weed taken off their bot-
toms.
For the Prime Minister to
compare the strength of the
R.A.A.F. in 1949 with that in
1939 as a measure of the excel-
lence and magnitude - of the
“Labor” party’s defence scheme
is to suggest that he does not in-
clude the word fairness in his
vocabulary. Similar comparisons
with other countries would not be
to the credit of Australia. And,
in any case, in 1939 Australia’s
largest aircraft were a couple of
Ansons, and for the rest the
staple was a motley collection of
Bulldogs and Wirraways and
others of the same standard.
That the R.A.A.F. under present
conditions numbers only 9000-
odd is a disgrace to the country.
Naval Weakness
The naval figures have to be
read in the light of the fact that
many ships are tied up because
it has been found impossible to
man them, and generally speak-
ing the Navy has not been given
a fair chance to prove itself.
As for the Army, there are
some notable figures as well as
sojne notable explanations mis-
sing.
For instance, where are the
figures of the Citizen Forces?
They certainly are under
15,000, setting aside the ques-
tion of whether this number
represents effective manpower.
They have so dwindled that Mr.
Chifley perhaps feels that it is
more discreet not to quote them.
The numbers of the Per-
manent Military Forces have to
be read with knowledge that
about half of them are officers
and non-commissioned officers,
and a lot of the rest cooks and
penpushers and other ancillaries.
The 1912 Comparison
As far back as 1912, when the
population was just over half
what it is today, the military
forces were greater in numbers,
and these did not take account
of nearly 30,000 cadets. And
most of the permanent section
was economically run. While the
rank-and-file have dwindled to
nothing, the headquarters ad-
ministration has swollen its
numbers at least tenfold.
The Navy in 1913 was
relatively stronger than it is at
present, and could boast a battle-
cruiser and three modern light-
cruisers. When it was manned
before the last war its seagoing
personnel alone was about as
great as that of the whole R.A.'N.
at the present time, including
administrative staffs.
Actually, at that time it was
planned that by 1933-34 a fleet
would be built up to consist of
18 cruisers, 18 destroyers, 12
submarines and a number of
other ships, but nobody rejoiced
more than “Labor” when this
scheme went finally on the rocks
with the arrival of the Wash-
ington conference. “Labor”
gloried in the scuttling of the old
H.M.A.S. Australia, and there
are various copies of “Hansard,”
Federal and State, which would
be very awkward for the party
if resurrected. At a time
when Japan’s naval estimates
were £11,000,000 all told be-
fore World War I, Aus-
tralia’s were nearly £5,000,000.
But the day had not yet come
when the policy of the Aus-
tralian Labor Party had been
taken over by the Communists
and the I.W.W. men, who re-
moulded it to suit the views of
Moscow rather than the safety
of Australia.
Failures at Every Turn
The plans for the stupendous
£250,000,000 defence scheme
which the Government laid down
in 1947 had certain specific
objectives. It aimed for a Per-
manent Military Force of 19,000
officers and men ; the number in
the third year is under 15,000. It
aimed for a Citizen Force —if a
force which trains a few days in
the year with obsolescent
weapons can be called a “force” —
totalling 48,850. It has certainly
under 15,000 men on the rolls,
and not all these are effective.
So that instead of having
69,000 serving it has about
28,000, those which represent the
fighting end being equal to a
couple of very weak brigade-
groups in numbers though
scarcely in organisation. It
would be impossible to put a
modernly-equipped battalion in
the field at short notice.
For the R.A.A.F. the Govern-
ment planned a force of 92
machines, including two long-
range fighter squadrons, three
heavy-bomber squadrons, two
transport squadrons, a survey
squadron and a tactical recce
squadron. The total numbers of
personnel in the R.A.A.F., in-
cluding the 2000 manning air-
craft and 4000 headquarters
staff, wag to be 12,625.
Actually the numbers in the
Permanent Air Force are given
in the estimates for this year
as 5680, but there are apparently
round about 4000 men some-
where else, these bringing the
numbers to a point about 3000
below those estimated under the
scheme as it was put forward
in 1947.
In 1947 the provision in the
Estimates for the Navy was for
“4040 seagoing personnel and
6410 for shore establishments
and pools.” It was planned to
increase this gradually till, by
1951-52, it would stand at 6756
seagoing officers and men and
7997 shoregoing and in pools.
This was apart from a Naval
Air Arm which was to be built
to 3936 in 1951-52.
Now total naval strength is
short of that in 1947, and there
does not seem to be much pros-
pect that it will come within
5000 of the totals expected by
the time the scheme reaches full
flowering.
The only thing which has
flourished in the Government’s
defence scheme is the expendi-
ture. With only a little fewer
than half the men enlisted which
are needed, and with the Citizen
Force scheme a complete failure,
expenditure has increased on an
average of 25 per cent, per
annum over the three years it
has been in existence.
There has been no more
dismal political failure in defence
in history. And the failure has
been capped by the opening by
the Prime Minister of a sordid
campaign to discourage the will
to serve by holding up compul-
sory training as something to
whjch he and his followers will
never agree, except in war-time
and under the influence of a
sudden fright.
A Sorry War Record
Even in war-time their sup-
port of compulsion was very
limited. Until Russia came into
the war “Labor” followers
carried on a joint anti-conscrip-
tion campaign with the Com-
munists. Then when Japan came
into the field they rushed to
compulsion pell-mell. They,
however, refused to accept the
responsibility accepted by every
other combatant in the Pacific of
sending compulsory trainees
wherever they were needed to
beat Japan,
When they were asked to
make militia available for the
Borneo area in 1942-43 the
trembling Prime Minister was
compelled to go to the bunch of
arrogant ex-Communists and
near - Communists who
dominated the Federal A.L.P.
and ask for permission for the
Federal Parliament to pass a
measure to allow him to send


The Story of
mw.
In 1848 a small group of the world’s
finest watch makers set themselves the
task of creating the most accurate
watch human hands could make. They
called this watch Omega, after the last
letter of the Greek alphabet. To-day,
Omega is recognised the world over as
the modern symbol of the ultimate in
fine watch making, with an unsurpassed
record of accuracy and styling. Omega
has been used again and again as the
official timepiece for Olympic Games,
and has already been chosen for the
1950 British Empire Games in New
Zealand.
Because of present-day currency restric-
tions, supply of Omega watches is
limited. But even if you experience
some delay, an Omega is well worth
waiting for .
fd
4?
ALL THE WORLD TRUSTS OMEGA
Legal Noticea.
IN THE MATTER of the Companies
Ordinance 1912-1926 (Papua Adopted) and
IN THE MATTER of THE RABAUL
CLUB.—BY ORDER of the Supreme
Court of the Territory of Papua and New
Guinea in this matter made on the Bth
day of November, 1949, upon the petition
of JAMES IRWIN CROMIE, a former
member of the Club, IT WAS ORDERED
that The Rabaul Club shall be deemed to
have been dissolved on the 24th day of
January, 1942 ; and that all persons who
were at that date members of the Club
(other than Honorary members) are the
persons alone entitled to any assets of the
Club that remain surplus after liabilities
of the Club have been discharged, which
surplus assets shall be distributed amongst
those persons in equal shares, the share
of any one of those persona who may have
died since the dissolution of the Club on
the 24th day of January, 1942, to be paid
to his legal personal representative; that
the Club be wound up by the Court and
that James Irwin Oromie, Solicitor, and
Basil Fairfax-Ross, Assistant General
Manager, both of Port Moresby, were
appointed Official Liquidators of the said
Club.
All persons who claim to have been
members of the said Club on the 24th
day of January, 1942, or to be the legal
personal representatives of members of
the Club at that date, but who have since
died, are required to submit their claims,
verified by affidavit or statutory declara-
tion, on or before the 31st‘ day of March,
1950, to JAMES IRWIN CROMIE, Soli-
citor, Port Moresby, one of the Official
Liquidators. The Official Liquidators may,
at any time after the 31st day of March,
1950, the date fixed for (he submission to
them of such claims, proceed with the
winding-up and seek the sanction of the
Court or a Judge to a distribution of the
surplus assets of the Club without further
regard being had to any claim not re-
ceived by them by that date. DATED
the 11th day of November, 1949. —J.
IRWIN CROMIE and B. PAIRFAX-ROSS,
Official Liquidators.
IN the Estate of JOHN EDWIN JONES
late of Kent Town South Australia Out
of Business deceased. —BY Direction of the
Supreme Court of South Australia notice
is hereby given pursuant to the Trustee
Act 1936-1946 that HAROLD PASSMORE
RIDGE at some time resident in Victoria
or his personal representative or de-
scendants is or are before the 31st day
of January 1950 to send by prepaid post
to EXECUTOR TRUSTEE & AGENCY
COMPANY OF SOUTH AUSTRALIA
LIMITED of Grenfell Street Adelaide
South Australia an executor of the Will
of John Edwin Jones deceased (who died
on the 24th day of May 1938) full par-
ticulars of any claim that Harold Pass-
more Ridge has or had to a share in the
estate of John Edwin Jones deceased as
a beneficiary under his Will otherwise he
or they will be excluded from the distri-
bution of the estate, n.b. : Harold Pass-
more Ridge was born at Richmond, Vic-
toria, in 1884.—EXECUTOR TRUSTEE
& AGENCY COMPANY OF SOUTH AUS-
TRALIA LIMITED, 22 Grenfell Street,
Adelaide, South Australia.
frusaber
m
St
IT»
22K
a
*
m
GUARANTEED. NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
9
I*
e
v
s®
*
The new British-made Biroette Ball
Point Pen, complete with cap and clip
costs a mere IS/-. YouMl admire the
graceful lines of Biroette—a,newcomer to
the Biro family. You’ll like it because
it’s so slender ... fits neatly in your pocket
or handbag . . . and so-light ... it
glides over the paper like thistle-down.
Biroette is available in four attractive colours,
black, grey, blue and maroon. The refills
are specially designed for long life. You
can buy as many as you want for 2/11 each.
Test the Biroette today . . . see how
effortlessly it writes.
At Stationers, Jewellers and Stores
ih&eite
REFILLS 2/11 EACH
Ask to see the Refutable Biro Minor. In 4 colours, Red,
Green, Blue, Black. The ink matches the cases. Pens, with
cap, 6/- each. Refills, all colours 3/9 each.
Patent No. 122073 dated Dec. 8, 1943. Other patents pendln,
the militia as far as the Equator.
One of his own Ministers, Mr.
Calwell, joined in denying him
the right even to address the
gathering, which included at
least one recent Moscow dele-
gate, without special permission ;
and when he did get his resolu-
tion before him they instructed
him, in effect, to hold up the
war while the State A.L.P.
executives discussed the matter
and came to a decision on it.
He would never have got his
scheme through if it had not
been for the Communist unions,
which, having fiercely and un-
scrupulously objected to sending
troops overseas to fight for this
country and the British Com-
monwealth, were now eager to
see the principle of overseas
compulsory service established
as a stepping-stone to the send-
ing of Australian troops to help
the U.S.S.R. if necessary.
“Defence” is a word which
the present Government should
blush to mention.
The Push-button War.
“Ek Dum”: Not only in Aus-
tralia is the push-button war de-
bated. The difference in outlook
between that of Australian de-
fence Ministers and experts else-
where is that here aerial science
is regarded as something which
will provide a substitute for
manpower. Elsewhere it is
looked on to a large extent as
merely an offensive and defen-
sive ingredient while manpower
and its complex organisation are
regarded as the solid base and
background to modern scientific
action.
Mr. Chifley envisions war as
something gradual for which he
will have time to prepare when
hostilities begin. He says that his
Government and party will not
support compulsory training
except in an emergency such as
arose in World War 11. This
presumes that when the war
comes there will be leisure to
issue decrees, call up men, put
them into camp and generally
prepare and train and equip
them for a few months before
they are needed for battle.
All this is based on a silly set
of fallacies. The likely form of
attack by a prepared enemy will
come in the form of a thoroughly
organised and shattering offen-
sive on Australian air defences.
Whether that attack succeeds
would depend not so much on
the efficiency of actual
squadrons but on the complete-
ness and efficiency of the ground
defence organisation behind
them.
It might be taken for granted,
for instance, that one of the first
moves in an attack would be to
capture for preference, or
destroy for second preference,
the big key aerodromes of the
country. Whether such an
attack, possibly operated by
large numbers of paratroopers,
would succeed would depend
entirely upon the strength of the
ground defence, which could
not be effectively consummated
without large numbers of highly-
trained troops, airborne and
otherwise, who would have to be
ready long before the actual
attack to make sure of being pre-
pared.
There also would certainly be
large-scale parachute attacks on
city water-supplies and other
facilities. The same applies to
their defence as to aerodromes.
Air-power will reach a de-
cision quicker than ground-
power if there is enough of it,
but only provided that there is
not a ground force in existence
contemporaneously which is
powerful enough to undermine
the conquest.
Much wild writing in the past
has captured the imagination of
amateurs of the Canberra type.
“Moscow News” before the
war was one source from which
these people drew their military
theories. Its pictures of the de-
struction wrought on Berlin by
the unconquerable Red Air
Force were almost beyond de-
scription. Sometimes as many
as 40 of the massive Russian
machines were involved in battles
in which they sailed over the
German capital and, unresisted
in the darkness, laid Germany at
the feet of Stalin.
Moscow, having little effective
air-power itself, had acquired
these dreams in the main from
Uncle Sam’s General Mitchell, a
doughty exponent of the theories
of the replacement of ground
forces by air forces.
One exercise which this
prophet used to pose about 20
years ago was a war between
Chicago and New York in which
New York was equipped with
1000 bombers, each with a two-
ton bomb-load capacity, while
Chicago had merely a recon-
naissance air force and 1,000,000
men against an N.Y. ground
force of 100,000.
General Mitchell, as umpire,
handed the victory to New York
without question. He said that
the evacuation of Chicago would
be forced by the bombing, its
manufacturing plants would be
destroyed or immobilised and
that “the armies would be
powerless to avert it” since air-
power could take a quick de-
cision.”
World War II proved the
limits of the destructive power
of 1000 bombers. Cities were
bombed by 1000 bombers carry-
ing up to 10 tons of bombs with-
out being completely immobi-
lised. And after about 1,000,000
tons of bombs had been dropped
on Germany it was still fighting.
Air-power proved an accessory
to land war contrary to the
theory of the aerialists, and not
the main weapon, and the same
will be true of any future war.
Victory will always be deter-
mined by the last land reserves.
It will be no more possible for
the warring nations to do with-
out full and adequate air co-
operation in every phase of
warfare than it would have
been possible for Marlborough
or Wellington to do without
horses and artillery. The air,
indeed, may be the determining
factor in a war ; but it can never
effect complete conquest with
land troops thrust into the back-
ground.
The history of the Pacific war
should be enough to convince
anybody on this question. Iso-
lated islands held by the Jap-
anese were pounded to pieces by
heavy bombs and naval
bombardments; but afterwards
they had to be captured in
bloody landing battles by
military forces. And in those
places—lwo Jima, for example—
the defenders were at the greatest
disadvantage in being cut off
from their bases, in having no
access to fresh reserves and
supplies, in never being able to
rest their troops and in having
lost all their own air-cover.
The new rocket technique is
merely in the trial-and-error
stage, and it will be years before
it can play more than a minor
part in modern war.


/ff EASY TO fly
TO NEW ZEALAND
rr\
GLACIERS, FJORDS, GEYSERS, MOUNTAINS, GLOW-WORM
CAVES, BOILING LAKES. MAORI MUSIC AND COLOUR.
The natural wonders of the world are concentrated
In New Zealand. TEAL will take you there In a
few hours by luxurious flying boat. Save days to
enjoy yourself.. NO WAITING! SEATS AVAIL-
ABLE EVERY DAY. Fly to New Zealand by
TEAL and see wonderland this Spring.
TEAL
PIS
Reservations:
Qantas and Leading Travel Agents
TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED
In association with Q. £. A., 8. 0. A. C. and B. C. 8. A.
No. 28 30/- No. 540 18/6
No. 388 27/6 No. 475 17/6
FULLY GUARANTEED
"T* he easy writing and per-
fect ink-flow are appreciated
by every type of writer. It's
the perfect gift —Conway
Stewart pens are used
by millions of satisfied
writers.
(jmidoi) §bu>flrt
No. 58
as illustrated
4Qf-
CONWAY STEWART & CO. LTD., LONDON
S.,W. RAMSAY, MELBOURNE AND SYDNEY
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
RIGHT TO HONG KONG
Expecting that sooner or later
the Chinese Corns will set about
trying to squeeze Britain out of
Hong Kong, London “Specta-
tor” declares that China would
lose as much as Britain would
if they did.
On J. Bull’s right to hold that
position on the China coast it
points out that the island of
Hong Kong, up to the time a
sparsely inhabited resort of
pirates and smugglers, was ceded
to the British Crown by the
Treaty of Nanking in 1842,
after British traders had with-
drawn there following their ex-
trusion from Canton. The Kow-
loon Peninsula and Stone-
cutters’ Island were added by
the Convention of Peking in
1860, and a later Convention of
Peking, in 1898, leased to Britain
the mainland area known as the
New Territories for a period of
99 years.
“A century of peaceful de-
velopment, rudely but ephemer-
ally interrupted by Japanese ag-
gression,” comments the “Spec-
tator,” “has seen the conversion
of this exiguous holding of
scrub-covered rock into one of
the world’s greatest entrepots,
whose prosperity and security
have benefited many more
Chinese than the two or three
million who now reside there.
We have every reason to be
proud of our achievements in
Hong Kong, and the Govern-
ment’s decision to put the
Colony in a position to defend
itself if necessary showed a
proper conception of both the
rights and the responsibilities of
Empire.”
On the same theme, London
“Time and Tide” notes in
American papers not otherwise
unfriendly to Britain indications
of decided embarrassment at the
prospect of being involved in the
defence of “British Imperialism”
against “the legitimate rights of
the Chinese nation,” and com-
ments: ‘ Why it is more im-
perialistic to have made in a
single century of a barren and
practically uninhabited rock the
most prosperous commercial
city of the Far East than to have
driven the Red Indians off the
American prairies is far from
obvious.”
A “more rational attitude” is,
however, seen to be gaining
ground in the U.S. ; and for its
part, Britain has no choice any-
way:—
“We must defend Hong Kong
or lose face so completely and
finally in the East that no
further reliance would be placed
upon our ability to defend any
British possession. The loss of
Hong Kong would certainly be
followed by the intensification
of the threat against Malaya by
the Chinese Communists from
within. And the same arguments
employed to persuade us to
abandon Hong Kong would be
unquestionably utilised to in-
duce us to commit felo de se in
Malaya.”
Why Side With Tito?
Seeking the answer to this
question, a London “Observer”
writer notes that the Stalin-
Tito conflict is not ideological;
that the real issue lies between
“the existence of an independent
Communist Yugoslavia and the
absorption of Yugoslavia by
Russia.”
Hence, “the question is not
whether we are in sympathy with
Tito but whether we are in-
terested in the continued inde-
pendence of Yugoslavia and
whether we can afford to see it
extinguished”;
“If Stalin were to attack Tito’s
Yugoslavia we should face
essentially the same question
that confronted us on June 22,
1941, when Hitler attacked
Stalin’s Russia. We had no rea-
son then to sympathise with
Stalin’s regime (though some
foolishly persuaded themselves
to do so); but we had the
strongest reason to maintain the
independence of Stalin’s Russia
against the aggressive Power
which threatened both her and
us.
“Our interest in an inde-
pendent—even though ideologi-
cally alien and unsympathetic—
Yugoslavia is plain. Its mere
existence keeps Russia away
from the Mediterranean (except
for the isolated and precarious
Albanian outpost), relieves pres-
sure on Greece and neutralises
a large part of the Russian satel-
lite armies. It acts also as a
brake on Russia’s political
offensive in Western Europe.
All these effects have already
made themselves felt in the past
year. Yugoslav independence
has more than a nuisance value
in the cold war. It is a serious
balancing factor in Europe.”
Accepting that “there is every
reason to believe that Russia
has not yet decided to risk a
world war for the sake of sub-
duing Yugoslavia,” but will cer-
tainly do so if it feels it can get
—Dallas (U.S.A.) ‘‘Morning News.”
ON HIS LITTLE OWN!
away with it without the aggres-
sion meaning immediate war
with the West, the writer con-
cludes that “Once more, as in
the mid-’thirties, we have a
chance to gain peace if we are
ready to face war; and we
shall make sure of war, and of
a war fought in desperate con-
ditions, if we shirk the issue and
condone aggression.”
After Stalin.
Though their prophecies
must all, of course, be labelled
guesswork, the increasingly
unanimous forecasts of overseas
crystal-ball gazers that Georgei
Malenkov, and not Molotov,
will eventually succeed Stalin
had their apparently strongest
support to date when Malenkov,
as one of the Soviet Deputy
Premiers, delivered the main
speech of the October Revolu-
tion 32nd anniversary.
The choice of speaker was
made by Stalin, and was taken
by London “Times’s” diplomatic
correspondent, among others, as
indicating that it was made at
the expense of Molotov. It
might be as well not to overlook,
however, the report consistently
made in responsible sections of
the American Press that the real
explanation of Molotov’s being
off the scene is that he has been
directing the Soviet interests in
China; and evidently making a
pretty good fist of it.
Newspapers in the U.S. favor-
ing the Malenkov theory in-
clude the best-informed of them
all, the “New York Times,”
which, collating signs of the
growing importance of that
possible successor, declares that
Malenkov and the late Zhdanov
were close rivals for the dictator
job, and that since Zhdanov
died Malenkov has been steadily
replacing Zhdanov’s supporters
with his own men.
A member of both London
“Economist” and “Observer”
staffs who has specialised in
Russian affairs since 1926 has
asserted in a “New York Times
Magazine” article that Molotov
stepping into Stalin’s shoes
would look very much like an
aged heir-presumptive ascend-
ing the throne towards the close
of his life —Molotov will be 60
next year; Joe himself will be
70 on December 21 ; Malenkov
is 48.
Stalin, this writer believes, has
obviously been grooming Malen-
kov for the succession ; in him,
Stalin has been cherishing “a
replica of his own younger
self.”
Stalin, in this writer’s view,
“has outlived his own doctrine”
—that is, the isolationist doc-
trine of “Socialism in one
country”:
“With the spread of Com-
munism in Europe and Asia the
self-centred attitude of Russian
Communism tends to become an
anachronism. The professions
of faith in ‘Socialism in one
country,’ which were shouted
from every Russian housetop
before the war, have since ceased
almost completely.
“Post-war Bolshevism still
stands halfway between the
peculiarly Stalinist isolationism
and the older Leninist challenge
to the capitalist world. Since
the war Stalin has tried to com-
bine the two attitudes rather
than definitely opt for one of
them. He will bequeath this
dilemma to his successor.
“The central problem in the
field of Soviet domestic policy
is no less involved. Lenin was
at first bent on shaping the
proletarian dictatorship into a
proletarian democracy, which
he earnestly believed would give
the mass of the people more
freedom than they could obtain
under a bourgeois democracy ;
but he found the State of his
making to be a bureaucratic
machine, a police State. His
awareness of this clouded his
last years... .Stalin inherited
that police State from Lenin,
expanded it tremendously and
inspired it with the oppressive
ruthlessness that had been the
characteristic of the early em-
pire-building Tsardom.
“In the last resort, this police
State was the product of Rus-
sia’s poverty, illiteracy and bar-
barity as well as of her fear of
the capitalist world. Like some
revolutionary tyrannies in other
countries and other ages, this
regime, too, has played its pro-
gressive role. It has half-freed
Russia from her poverty,
illiteracy and barbarity. The
other half of the job still re-
mains to be done; and it can
hardly be done by the police
State. The regime that has over
the lifetime of a generation so
powerfully stimulated Russia’s
economic and cultural develop-
ment is itself becoming an ob-
stacle to the consummation of
the process.”
Against that background the
succession to Stalin is seen as
invested with exceptional in-
terest ; among the possibilities
envisaged is a violent reaction
against the police State coincid-
ing with the crisis in the Soviet
leadership. “If, however,” Lon-
don “Economist” comments re-
garding any such possibility as
that, “Malenkov were eventu-
ally to succeed Stalin by some
more or less constitutional
means, it seems likely that he
would seek to keep the Soviet
State in the form that we know
today. There would be no real
alternative. Modern Russia owes
its might, and Malenkov would
owe his power, to the centralised
control of the Bolshevik party,
to Soviet ideology, to the ‘Stalin
Constitution.’ Some enemies or
rivals might disappear, but it
would be in the interests of the


It’s new ! A streamlined Chrome Set that you’ll
delight to use and be proud to own. The automatic
shaving angle and Superkeen “Gem” Blades of sur-
gical steel, give cool, clean, drag-free shaves that
keep you neat and avoid 5 o’clock shadow.
New “GEM” de luxe Chrome Sets
★
★
“Gem” Chromium Plated Streamline Model in handsome
case of Ivory Plastic with 5 “Gem” double-life Blades. 20/-.
Also new Chrome Strop Outfit with automatic stropper, as
illustrated, complete with 8 Blades in Ivory Plastic Gift
Case. 35/-.
“Gem” Double-life Blades, 5 for 1/9. Sold Everywhere.
Streamlined Chrome Sets
new ruler to avoid major up-
heavals.. ..As regards foreign
policy, Malenkov has not made
the violently anti - Western
speeches of his late rival
Zhdanov; but it can safely be
assumed that he is solidly be-
hind the present Soviet line, both
because of his high position and
because of his association with
the Cominform. Speculation on
Malenkov’s chances, interesting
though it is, reveals no prospects
of a Soviet attitude substantially
different from what now exists.”
Joe on Germany.
Anyone with a rudimentary
knowledge of Kremlin double-
talk should have little trouble
interpreting the following couple
of sentences from Stalin’s
message to the Soviet-sponsored
East German Government:
“The experience of the recent
war showed that the biggest
sacrifices in it were borne by the
German and the Soviet peoples,
and that these two peoples have
the largest potentials in Europe
to complete great actions of
world significance. If these two
peoples display determination
to fight for peace, straining their
energies to the same extent as
they did to wage war, peace in
Europe may then be considered
secure.”
The editor of “Yorkshire
Post” makes the following inter-
pretation :
“What are the great actions
which the Soviet and East Ger-
man peoples can complete (or
accomplish, as the Russian word
may also be translated)? Stalin
hopes to complete or accomplish
with German help the domina-
tion of Europe.”
U.S. Efficiency.
Most striking, and no doubt
significant, points explaining the
American industrial-productivity
lead over Britain are put for-
ward in a London “Times”
letter, jointly signed Lewis C.
Ord and P. Malcomn Stewart.
It might well have helped
Britain’s governing Socialists to
the conclusion —expressed by
Herbert Morrison —that incen-
tive - payments are needed to
boost British production. It in-
dicates, however, that the
British lag calls for much more
thorough treatment than that.
Its most striking point is that,
whereas the branches of U.S.
industrial concerns operating in
Britain produce at about the
general British level, the branches
of British firms operating in the
U.S. produce at the higher
general U.S. level.
I n explanation of this
phenomenon the writers point
out that, for one thing, British
production bears Governmental,
social and industrial charges
that American production
escapes. For another, British
production is hampered by Gov-
ernmental ruling, trade-union
restrictions and industrial cus-
toms and regulations from
which, also, American produc-
tion is free.
Describing those as the “over-
riding factors,” and stating that
“It has long been recognised
that the American lead is
greatest in the mass-production
industries,” the writers add:
“As two examples typical of
many, let us cite the General
Motors and Ford companies
which operate factories in this
country. It is to be presumed
that these factories operate
under American production ad-
vice, as sound and as extensive
as can be procured anywhere.
Other American - owned and
-operated firms in Great Britain
are in a similar position. In
spite of the wide margin by
which some American industries
lead, American firms in these
particular industries in this coun-
try usually achieve only a narrow
lead over their chief British
rivals ,
“British-owned firms operat-
ing in the United States operate
at American, and not at British,
levels of efficiency.”
The conclusion of the matter,
in the writers’ view, is that “It
is not merely the knowledge of
production technique which a
company may possess, but it is
the industrial conditions operat-
ing in the respective countries
which determine in the main the
degree of efficiency which can
be attained,”, and that “British
industry is now in fetters under
Government control, and time
will prove that the attainment
of increased efficiency will tarry
until greater freedom is re-
stored.”
Atom-bomb Limits.
As emphasised by a U.S,
atomic expert in an “Uncabled
Additions” item some months
back, the underwater explosion
of the atom-bomb can be much
more deadly than its explosion
in the air. In the “American
Mercury” leading U.S. air
authority Major De Seversky
has contended that ignorance
on that very point has led to a
false idea of the bomb’s possible
value in war, particularly as a
weapon against troops in the
field:
“After inspecting Hiroshima
and Nagasaki and later witnes-
sing the atom tests at Bikini I
was convinced that the tactical
use of atomic bombs against
soldiers and tanks is a highly
unprofitable undertaking.” He
quotes General McAuliffe, who
was Deputy Commander at
Bikini, corroborating this view:
“The Bikini experience showed
that soldiers in dugouts or tanks
could weather the blast, heat
and radiation of near-by atomic
explosions and go on fighting.”
De Seversky adds;
“The fact is that in the aerial
explosions over Bikini, Hiro-
shima and Nagasaki there was
no residual or ‘latent’ radio-
activity to speak of. The rescue-
workers and Red Cross were
able to enter the bombed areas
immediately and work without
hazard to themselves. The
radioactive danger existed only
at the moment of explosion,
which is an infinitesimal fraction
of a second, and affected only
those who were directly exposed
to the rays. Even Japanese who
happened to be in primitive
earth dugouts near the centre
of explosion were not touched
by radiation. That is why
soldiers properly dug-in will
survive to fight again, as
General McAuliffe rightly said.
“The confusion on this score
has been caused by the results of
underwater explosion of the
atomic bomb at Bikini. That
bomb was artificially planted
under water and detonated by
remote control, as a kind of
laboratory experiment. Millions
of tons of water were mixed
with radioactive fissionable
material. This ‘poisoned’ water
drenched the ships, leaving
radioactive deposits in all the
crevices of the structures, from
which they could not be com-
pletely removed without dis-
mantling the ships. Hence they
had to be destroyed. This con-
dition does not prevail in aerial
attacks on land forces. The
tactical use of the atomic wea-
pon against armies is therefore
highly impractical at present,
particularly considering the pro-
digious national effort that goes
into their manufacture.”
Dragnet Digest.
sands of little tragedies, silent arrests,
sudden disappearances. It is only
when these manifestations of the
police State are multiplied to form a
major purge that the world outside
is more than vaguely aware of them.”
* * * *
An Evatt U.N.O. Letter— In the
UNO discussion on Greece,
Vishinsky hurling accusations in his
familiar style against the Athens
Government and the Western Powers,
“caused something of a stir,” as re-
ported by the London “Times” cor-
respondent at Lake Success, “by
referring to a letter addressed to the
Council of Foreign Ministers by Dr.
Cheap Jap Goods. —Dubbing the
trade treaty with Japan “this post-
war Black Pact,” London “Daily
Express” is decidedly hostile: “Will
cheap Japanese goods overwhelm the
British Colonial Empire as they did
in the past? Are the Japs to be
helped to oust Lancashire textiles,
Staffordshire pottery and other
products from traditional markets,
simply to please General MacArthur?
The country should be assured that
the wool, petrol, crude oil, raw cotton
and iron ore which Britain is to
send to Japan under the treaty could
not be traded more advantageously
elsewhere.”
* * * *
The Totalitarian Terror. —Assessed
by N. Y. “Herald Tribune” (com-
menting particularly on the current
wholesale purge in Czechoslavakia):
“The terror that is an integral part
of the workings of a totalitarian State
is like an iceberg—the visible portion
only suggests the immensity that is
concealed. For each full-dress trial,
floodlighted, equipped with all the
machinery of confession, coercion
and melodrama, there are thou-
—"Christian Science Monitor.”
AND STILL AT LARGE!
Evatt as chairman of the Assembly’s
Balkan conciliation committee, imply-
ing that the internal situation in
Greece must be taken into account if
any settlement was to be reached.
This,” the report proceeded, “is the
first that has been heard of such a
letter, but a British spokesman con-
firmed that it was written, and that
Mr. Bevin found the suggestion un-
acceptable as being an unwarranted
intervention in Greek internal affairs.
Mr. Vishinsky, of course, is using
these views of Dr. Evatt to support
his argument.”
* * * *
The “Undiplomatic” Evatt. —An-
other comment indicating that they
would seem to have Dr. Evatt’s
measure overseas also; this one from
a report by London “Times’s” Hong
Kong correspondent referring to an
Evatt statement in Canberra on
China: “This statement, in which
Dr. Evatt gave the impression of
speaking not only on behalf of his
own Government but also on behalf
of the Governments of the United
Kingdom and the United States, can,
it is thought, have only unfavorable
reactions from the Chinese side, and
it is also regarded as highly undiplo-
made.”
* * * *
Well-singed Investors. London
“Daily Express” financial writer
Frederick Ellis is authority for the
statement that on eight stocks the
Attlee Socialist Government has
sponsored since coming to power,
investors have lost no less than £3OB
million: “Not one [of the stocks] is
standing anywhere near the price at
which the Government issued it.
The biggest swindle of them all—the
infamous ‘Daltons,’ two-and-a-half
per cent. Treasury stock, issued in
1946 at £lOO. Today they are only
10s. above the lowest-ever price at
£69 ss. Every investor has lost
£3O 15s. of each £lOO he lent the
Government.”
* * * *
U.S. China Policy—While there has
been something like indecent haste in
British Press suggestions on early
recognition of the Chinese Corns by
J. Bull, Uncle Sam has been in no
such hurry. “The United States,”
comments London “Economist,”
“wants clarification of the new
regime’s attitude to China’s existing
international treaties before the
granting of recognition, and in a
matter so obscure clarity may take a
long time to attain.” Also, there is
China’s place in U.N.O. as one of
the five permanent members of the
Security Coin cil. It would be very
convenient for Russia to have a
Chinese Com;’ veto available there
in the event of Soviet aggression
against Yugoslavia, because then the
Kremlin, as an interested party, would
not be able to use its own veto on
U.N.O. action.
* * * *
China Corns' Limits. —Discussing
the possibility of China’s Corns over-
flowing South-east Asia, N. Y.
“Herald Tribune” correspondent A.
T. Steel, who has been 17 years in
the Far East, holds that internal
difficulties may limit them: “1 hey are
running into greater obstacles, politi-
cal and economic, than they or their
well-wishers had expected. This pre-
occupation on the home front, plus
the desire for international recogni-
tion and trade, may constrain the
Communists to go slow, for a while,
on foreign adventures. But it will
not deter them from seizing any likely
or cheap opportunity to fish in the
troubled waters of Asia and the
world. Any other assumption would
be dangerously wishful.”
* * * *
The Nelson Touch. —Addressing the
Military Historical Society in Lon-
don, Britain’s Second Sea Lord,
Admiral Sir Cecil Harcourt, paid an
illuminating tribute to the practical
ability backing up Nelson’s flair of
genius; stating that Nelson’s corres-
pondence w'.ien serving in the
Mediterranean had been proved
strikingly appropriate to conditions in
1939-45. Admiral Harcourt said that
when serving there in the late war
he had found that to be so much so
that he had copied out one of the
Nelson letters and forwarded it to
the Admiralty with a recommendation
that others might well be looked into.
* * * *
J. Bull “Nearer Bankruptcy.” —
Very doubtful about even the latest
efforts of the Attlee Socialists to avert
ruin, “Manchester Guardian” thus
opens its editor! d comment on those
moves: “Sober men watching Britain
and the sterling area running straight
and fast to bankruptcy still cannot
think that the crash, with all its
unemployment and misery, will come.
They will believe that in face of the
overwhelming danger we shall surely
change course in time. But it is a
belief which gets harder tip hold as
each opportunity for changing course
is passed with hardly a falter in the
runner’s steps.”


%
\<±
'
'Hi
0 H cHW sTIAIVS
lAORHW®
HE’LL *
Gillette
ONE-PIECE RAZOR
Take a tip from Santa
Claus who says “it’s a
One-Piece season”, A
Gillette One-Piece is
the world’s finest razor.
It’s the way to quicker,
easier, better shaves.
Twist —— the razor
opens! In with the
blade and twist again
it’s ready for use.
What a gift to choose
for the nicest man on
your Christmas list!
2.
o w.
/rs
msriTf>
4.
Gillette No. 15 is the
“Aristocrat” plated
One-Piece razor in a
velvet-lined plated case
with 10 Blue Gillette
Blades in plated blade- /§■
holder. 39/9.
Other Gillette Sets range from as low as 4/Bd. Popular, too, is
the blade Dispenser containing 20 Blue Gillette Blades at 6/-.
£limfmas good mornings-
err Gillette
r
a
%
TV
c® c
Interlude for light-hearted gaiety and
cheerful chatter, to the accompaniment of ingen-
ious cocktails made with Vickers Gin and simple
ingredients. Vickers —always excellent, always
satisfying—the universally accepted drink of the
times.
the GIN will he
FAMOUS SINCE 1750
VG7A/I6
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
Deceptive.
“Adrian Quesnot, of San Antonio
(Texas), helped a man he thought
was drunk, found when he got home
that his wallet and 158 dollars were
missing.”
Police might find, it seems to me ,
A lesson in this simple tale
When ruling how much wine or
ale
Induces insobriety.
For ancient tests like walking
lines
To gauge one’s equilibrium
Can only give a minimum
Of basis for imposing fines.
In fact, they must be classed as
bunk
That no one honestly believes,
If men can act like sober thieves
When obviously “rolling” drunk.
Bert.
4* 4* 4 1
Question: Can Australian in-
dustry find sufficient dough to
provide the 10-pound loaf
unions are demanding?
4* 4* 4*
“Would some kind person please
give home to nice lady cat?”
—Suburban paper.
Many husbands have already
done so.
4* 4* *l*
“Real birds will be worn on the
new model hats.”
—Sydney "Sunday Sun.”
Fashionable women will feel
bound to give them a fly.
4* 4* 4*
“I was horrified when I saw the
price of even the simplest frocks in
Sydney shops.”— Overseas visitor.
Many sell for an awful figure!
4* 4* 4*
“For sale, three-year-old blood-
plums, 3/6 each,”
— N.S.W. country paper.
Blue-blood, undoubtedly.
Course and Effect.
When atom-bombs were heard
to burst
Way back behind the iron-curtain
Some pessimists who think the
worst
About their future use felt cer-
tain.
But shame upon these thought-
less few
Reactionaries so mistaken
As to suggest that Stalin’s crew
With war in mind had under-
taken
To plant their agents everywhere
And filch atomic information,
When leaders of the Soviet swear
’Twas all to further irrigation!
Yet, though we hear of deserts
brown
Made green by scientific panels
With atom power, who’ll swallow
down
This news that flows through
Comma channels ?
D. H. E.
■F HE*
Opponents declare that Maxie
(“Votch”) Falstein’s object in
standing as an Independent
“Labor” candidate is to become
Parliament’s “Compensating
Balance.”
'
“This little girl lost her mother at
20 Pyrmont Wharf yesterday after-
noon, so she went to a policeman
crying for help.”— “S. M. Herald.”
So they could console each
other, no doubt.
+ + 4*
“The Joint Coal Board will de-
cisively change the name of Marx
House.” — Sydney “Daily Mirror.”
Why not, then, to “Blackout
House”?
4* _ 4* 4 1
Breaking-point.
Cedric Gooph is one of those
earnest young men who are
always following some cult or
fad, at first with the wild en-
thusiasm of the convert and
finally dropping it through disil-
lusionment. He takes my forth-
right and rather brutal twittings
with an air of mild reproach,
One day, a little while after he
had dropped spiritualism, I
called in to his office to find him
avidly studying the astrological
column of a flapper’s paper.
“Don’t tell me you believe
that tripe!” I exclaimed.
Cedric bent on me his mild
look. “Oh, I don’t know,” he
said. “I think there’s a lot in it.
This Fanny Fetherbrane who
"Wo w just relax —and cast your mind back to when
you Were a kitten .”
runs this column is remarkably
accurate —as far as my horo-
scope goes, anyway. I’ll prove
it to you, too.” He pointed to
the page, “Look at this. Under
Taurus here”
“Aptly named,” I cut in.
“Taurus stands for bull, doesn’t
it?”
He ignored my remark.
“Having been born in early
May,” he went on, “I come
under the influence of the
zodiacal sign of Taurus. Hear
what she said concerning my
horoscope: ‘The chart is happily
aspected this week except for
possibility of accidents, especi-
ally by plane travel on Tues-
day.’ ”
“Well, what was happily
aspected about your activities?”
I asked. “Did a rich uncle from
Fiji leave you a fortune, did you
have six strokes sliced off your
golf handicap, were given back
an engagement-ring which in
the meantime had appreciated in
value, or did you get the phone
on without having to cough-up
a ‘present’ for somebody?”
“Don’fbe so flippant,” Cedric
replied seriously. “If I hadn’t
taken her tip and made certain
of avoiding an accident by stay-
ing home oh Tuesday I might
have been killed.”
“Were you contemplating a
plane trip that day?” I pursued.
“Weil, not exactly,” replied
Cedric. “But I could easily have
been walking along the street
and an engine fallen from a
plane on to me—that would
have been a plane accident,
wouldn’t it?”
I pointed out that no engine
happened to have fallen out of
a plane that day, and that, any-
way, had it done so it would be
just as likely to fall on him in
his home as in the office or
walking along the street. But
my argument failed to move his
faith in the marvellous visionary
powers of the astrological
wizard,
A week or so later I happened
to see Cedric again. Before I
had a chance to unleash a shaft
of sarcasm about the horoscopic
exactitude of Fanny Fetherbrane
he got in with “You won’t sling
off at me after you’ve read
this”—and he pointed to a para-
graph of the astrological-notes
column.
It read: “It would be as well
to avoid violent quarrels with ex-
world - champion heavyweight
boxers and to avoid being run
over in the early part of the
week, especially by steamrollers
or tractors. Advisable to exer-
cise shrewdness in business deal-
ings. Week especially favorably
aspected for inter-Continental
travel, descending oceans in
bathyspheres, alpine climbing,
watching workmen digging ex-
cavations, studying the . life-
change in newts and conducting
symphony orchestras. Last four
days particularly happy of
aspect: this cycle will give you
a substantial lift.”
Cedric looked at me trium-
phantly.
“Well,” I asked, “where do
her magnificent powers of prog-
nostication come in?”
“That last-bit about the cycle,”
exclaimed Cedric excitedly. “You
see, going home on Friday I met
a friend with a motor-bike and
sidecar and he gave me a lift
home. How much more accurate
do you want a horoscope? It’s
marvellous how she knew. And
the lift was a substantial one,
too —I live over half a mile
from the station.”
The following week he was
more enthusiastic than ever. It
appeared that, entirely due to
Fanny Fetherbrane’s advising
him to be cautious in such
matters in view of the conjunc-
tion of certain stars, he had suc-
cessfully avoided collisions with
ocean liners, being mauled by
tigers and escaped being en-
gulfed in Far Eastern typhoons
by refusing to travel. But these
were merely secondary to the
splendid results he had reaped
in a positive sense. The star-
gazer had advised that this week
would be “propitious for com-
mercial activities.” Taking the
tip, Cedric had gone off the deep
end and bought a new hat. The
day after he had made the
plunge he had seen the same
make of hat two bob dearer in
another shop. He showed me the
cady.
“Why!” I said. “You can get
this same make two and six less
at Anthony Horderns’ —I saw
them there yesterday.”
In spite of this his faith in
Fanny Fetherbrane remained
unshaken.
Last week I saw Cedric again,
and he mentioned something
about taking up nudism, so I
knew that astrology was dead.
Looking at him squarely I asked
what had killed his faith.
Cedric silently pointed to the
familiar Taurus par. It read
“Monday would be propitious
for listening over the air after
8 p.m. You/Could hear some-
thing to your material advan-
tage.”
Cedric, of course, had
switched ojx to his favorite
station, and for 35 minutes took
an earbashing from Ben Chifley
on the glories of the Socialist-
Communist heaven that “Labor”
was going to order the people
to enjoy as from December 11.
After all, there’s a limit to
what even a Gooph will believe.
80.
4* *l*
Lines to a Mulcted Swain.
The work of As so p’s fox it is.
The jesting of Rahere;
To substitute for love and wine
Philosophy and beer!
P. R. E.


LAV IN A
Seventeen-
Jewelled
Swiss
Masterpieces
0 n
o^ 6
tn e
oP
lAvim
Watches
Founded in 1852
VILLERET, SUISSE
I w i
tfte> CTT&IeL
FHGING fl PARK
The one thing you will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and hustle. . . . The
Wentworth faces a part . . . yet
it is merely “round the comet”
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are all you would wish
. . . the service and cuisine
excellent
THE WENTWORTH
in
Thone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
-ftMrtJra:
’ tiL
=1 tJ
A
~4
%
&
K-
sr
u
'xVN
:
k 3
w**
fA
There are times which
call for something better
than the merely very
good, and demand the
unquestionable best.
Where cigarettes are concerned
the man of taste is guided by
the words 66 Benson & Hedges,
Old Bond Street, London 99
—for all those occasions
when only the best will do.
BT APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS TO
HIS MAJESTY THE KING
3/. SUPER VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
BY
Bensonmd Hedges
LTL
OLD BOND STREET, LONDON
SPORTING NOTIONS
The way in which, at recent starts,
Bruin has been sticking on well at
the finish, after doing the pace-
making, suggested that the day was
not far distant when they wouldn’t
catch him. Saturday proved to be
the day when, at Caulfield, a large
crowd, drawn out by the lately un-
accustomed pleasure of a fine after-
noon, saw Bruin lead all the way
to take the Eclipse Stakes. Second
was Dashing Beau and third Stamen,
whose regular backers (there seem
plenty of them) display far moiti
stamina than the horse.
If there was reason to expect a
good showing from Bruin in the
Eclipse there is the same reason to
anticipate Dashing Beau re-entering
the winning list shortly. His third
behind Saxony and Bruin in the
Williamstown Cup was a good effort,
and certainly Dashing Beau was the
only one making any impression on
Bruin at the finish of the Eclipse.
Going well. Bruin held what seemed
a certain winning lead entering the
straight, but Dashing Beau had
whittled it down to a half-neck at
the post. Stamen was nearly three
lengths further back, just shading
the favorite St. Razzle. A number of
the also-rans in the Eclipse—notably
Lincoln, Hoyle and Royal Pageant —
gave notice that, after a solid spring
campaign, they have possibly had
about enough racing for the present.
Tiained by W. D. Rutzou, and
ridden a perfect race in the Eclipse
by W. A. Smith, Bruin is a six-year-
old son of Solar Bear and the Lanius
mare Ouragan. Bruin himself has
done stud duty, being the sire of a
couple of youngsters foaled a few
weeks back at the property of his
part-owner G. W. Vowells.
As with the principal event, most
other races at Caulfield proved disas-
trous for backers of favorites; one
exception, however, was the success
of Dusky Rose (J. Purtell) in the
second division of the Pelham Handi-
cap for three-year-olds. Evidently
expected to find the mile journey
more to her taste than the 12 furlongs
of the Oaks, in which, at her pre-
vious start, she had run last, Dusky
Rose started favorite at threes for
the Pelham, and, conceding other run-
ners 131 b. and upwards, won nicely
from Hunch and Harrovian. The
first division of the Pelham went to
Patron (S. Ralph), also a topweight
and also starting at threes, but Eclair
was a shade shorter in the betting;
Eclair finished a close fourth, with
Happy Medium second and Zezette
third.
Most of the beaten favorites were
accepted with resignation by punters,
but they did voice disapproval when
the 5-to-4 chance American Edition
was beaten a short half-head by El
Tovar (J. Purtell) in the Stansmore
Two-year-old. The vociferous frater-
nity seemed of the opinion that the
favorite’s rider, A. Breasley, had been
a mite over-confident when his mount
had seemed home and hosed nearing
the post. At all events El Tovar
swooped and landed the cash, much
to the surprise both of bookies, who
were laying threes against El Tovar
in betting on the result of the photo,
and of the “shrewd” punters who,
knowingly, declined those odds.
In the 6-furlongs Rosstown Plate
the Hellespont five-year-old Chanak
was liberally plastered both by
punters and, which the said punters
seemed to ignore, by the handicapper.
Despite his impost of 9.10 (Cellar-
man next in the weights with 8.13)
Chanak was backed down from
sevens to start favorite at 7 to 2. The
lightweights Bartolus and Royal Hero
making the pace a cracker from the
jump, Chanak was soon lost in the
big field; in the circumstances the
favorite did remarkably well to finish
a closish third; Prince Ben, a three-
year-old Bold Ben colt, finished
dashingly to beat River Hero by
lengths.
* * * *
It can be recorded, with, of course,
all due sympathy, that the bookies
took a regular hiding at Randwick
on Saturday; for once the oft-told
tales of “huge losses” had a certain
foundation of truth. Otherwise, prin-
cipal features of the day’s racing
were the excellent form of jockey
N. Sellwood, with two winners and
four minor placings from seven
mounts, and the rather poorer luck
of riders A. Ward and A. Thomas,
who each stopped two-months “holi-
day.”
Longest-priced winner of the day
was Silver Buzz, at 8 to 1 for the
Warwick November Handicap (12f.),
but then, by the same token, the
Warwick was a very open betting
race, with Cape Neddick favorite at
sixes. Huamight and Brig o’ Doon,
two of four equal second-favorites
at 7 to 1, looked like having the
finish to themselves when they joined
battle at the distance. With 50 yards
to go Huamight had that particular
argument won, but then Silver Buzz
fairly flew up, wide out on the track,
to gain a nose decision in a photo-
finish.
Silver Buzz would pretty certainly
have been given the verdict even had
the camera not been available. A
typical son of The Buzzard, he’s a big
bright chestnut with three long white
socks and about as eye-taking a
white nose as can be imagined. Out
of the Seremond mare Biddy’s Robe,
Silver Buzz is a six-year-old full-
brother to that very good ’un of a
few years back, Katanga.
Jockey A. Ward got his temporary
marching orders as a result of inter-
ference suffered by Blue Ensign and
Heroic Sovereign near the furlong
mark in the running of the Camden
Handicap (7f.). Ward was on the
veteran Barnsley, who finished very
strongly, but too late to run down
the Mr. Standfast five-year-old
Except. The interference completely
settled Heroic Sovereign’s chances,
but Blue Ensign managed to land
third money—at his previous start, at
Canterbury, Blue Ensign had had
similar stiff luck.
Two-year-old form proved reliable,
the Maltine Stakes and the Hoxton
Park Stakes going, respectively, to
Titian and Beau Gene, both of whom
started favorite, having won at their
previous starts. Sister to the AJ.C.
Derby-winner Valiant Crown, the
chestnut filly Titian had a very easy
win, with three lengths to spare at
the finish, from the New Zealand-
bred Oriane (by Beau Vite) and
Charlotte (by Helios). The only
surprising feature of Beau Gene's
equally easy win in the Hoxton was
his starting-price of 2 to 1 in such
a comparatively poor field.
With The Gaekwar first past the
post in the Welter, N. Sellwood,
rider of the runner-up Lone Duke,
entered a protest, which was dis-
missed. However, A. Thomas, rider
of the winner, landed two months’
suspension for interference to another
runner, Farhad. Curiously, when
The Gaekwar last won at Randwick,
a few weeks back, his rider on that
occasion also received a “term.”
* * * *
For Canterbury (before accept-
ances) :
Juvenile Stakes (fillies): Whippet,
1; Oriane, 2; Furling, 3. Juvenile
(colts and geldings): Carioca, 1;
English Standard, 2; Court Session,
3. Ashbury Mixed: Acquittal, 1;
School Star, 2; Curiosity, 3. Campsie
Mixed: Double Sea, 1; Fortune’s
Hero, 2; Lord Chancellor, 3. Fly-
ing: Skip Court, 1; Hava Chat, 2;
Blue Ensign, 3. Canterbury Park
Handicap; Air Flare, 1; Galway
Bay, 2; Brig o’ Doon, 3. Welter:
Farhad, 1; Lone Duke, 2; High
Order, 3.
In Melbourne last week Dr. J. L.
Boorman, of Cessnock (N.S.W.), shot
an arrow into the air. Unlike the
subject of the song, however, the
worthy doctor’s shaft fell to earth
precisely 520yds. 2ft. 6in. away.
Occasion was the national archery
championships at Footscray, and
Doc Boorman’s effort broke his own
previous Australian distance record
of 509yds.
* * * *
At the time of writing heavy rain
was threatening to toss a spanner
into the works of the N.S.W. tennis
championships, which commenced on
Friday and were scheduled to con-
clude next Saturday. Lawn Tennis
Assoc, secretary Victor Kelly has
“In the ring or out of the ring, he never gets up before ten.”
good reason to think that his bad
luck is a bit over the odds —of 10
major tournaments he has handled
since becoming secretary, nine have
been seriously interfered with by rain.
In early rounds of the tournament,
played on Friday and Saturday, the
only serious upset was the defeat of
seeded player Adrian Quist by the
lanky young Victorian Ken Mc-
Gregor. In a particularly choice
match, lasting almost three hours,
McGregor beat the wily veteran 6-4,
6-8, 8-6, 7-5. On Monday morning
the Czech player Drobny, of whom
more anon, arrived in Sydney rear-
ing to go; first impression, without
seeing him in action, a bright, en-
thusiastic and most pleasing per-
sonality.
The Westralia v. Q’land Sheffield
Shield match in Brisbane resulted
in W.A. winning outright by 139
runs. With the first-innings scores
Westralia 359 and Q’land 328, a close
go had seemed likely, but a splendid
knock of 122 by Westralian L.
Charlesworth in the second innings
virtually settled the matter —with,
admittedly, the assistance of some
subsequently appallingly poor batting
by the Q’landers. The W.A. skipper,
Keith Carmody, who had himself hit
up a handy 54, was able to make a
nicely-timed declaration with seven
down for 278, which left Queensland
310 to make in 240 minutes. On a
perfectly true wicket the home team
were all out for 170, W. Morris top-
scoring with 46, while W. A. Brown
(41), L. Johnson (33 n. 0.) and C.
Smith (19) were the only others to
reach double figures. Getting very
little assistance from the pitch,
Westralian trundler C. Puckett took
6 for 68.
* * * *
Fielding a pretty well full-strength
Test team, the Australian cricket
tourists took no risk when they faced
their first really representative oppo-
sition —a South African XI —at Salis-
bury on Saturday. Scoring freely,
and with all but one member reaching
double figures, the Australians batted
throughout Saturday to total 312 in
305 minutes. The S’Africans then
opened their innings with an appeal
against the light, which was upheld
without a ball being bowled, and
thus ended the first day, with S’Africa
0 for 0, Fullerton 0 n. 0., Wynne
0 n.o. «
* * * *
Norman (Wizard) Smith, whose
motor-racing exploits have a per-
manent place in Australian sporting
history but who these days makes
a hobby of winning and trying to
win the Katoomba Citizens’ Gold
Cup golf trophy for his own club
(Eastlakes, Sydney), hhd his East-
lakes four at Katoomba for the event.
They equalled the winning score, 544,
put up by a Lakes (Sydney) team
comprising J. Grant, C. H. Longley,
F. Tollett and C. Rhodes, and lost
on a count-back. “Wizard” had G.
Brissett and A. Bieler, two of his
winning four in 1945, and added P.
Tuckfield.
Katoomba Gold Cup is
probably the outstanding
annual golf meeting of
plain, ordinary, common
or garden players in
N.S.W. Every year some
300 or 400, on handicaps
ranging from 3 to 27,
invade the mountain town
and battle their way
round the par-69 course,
the hardest of all Blue
Mountains courses. Out-
standing round was a 63
by R. Jennings (3) (Ryde-Parramatta),
who cut the course record of 66
down three strokes. He had eight
b'irdies.
* * * *
In a not-particularly-inspiring bout
in Melbourne last week Bernie Grant
(8.13|) collected the Australian fedder
title, vacated by Eddie Miller, with
a t.k.o. decision in the 10th round.
Grant’s opponent was Mickey
McDonald (8.13£), who, after build-
ing up a tidy margin of points in
the early rounds, grew over-confident
and made the fatal mistake of trying
to rough it with Grant, who is a
pastmaster of that art.
* * * ♦
With the British Empire middle-
weight laurels fresh upon his brow
Dave Sands entered the ring at
Leichhardt last week in a non-
combatant capacity—seconding brother
George Sands (10.2) in his bout with
Charlie Beaton Unfortunately
for George, his distinguished brother
proved a dud good-luck charm. It
was Beaton’s first main-event fight,
but he boxed like a veteran; ad-
mittedly it was a rearguard action,
with Beaton back-pedalling furiously,
but ever and anon he paused long
enough to dish out a few beauts,
Sands the while doing naught but
give willing chase. Beaton easily on
points.


JUmJL
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
The moderate
use of Wolfe’s
Schnapps has been
recognised for
generations as a
health-giving
stimulant.
EYE LOTION
For inflamed Eyes and Eyelid?
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H.A.Rose&Co.Pty.t.td.Klng St. Sydney
‘ Phenovis” Worm Remedy
5;«
fd
‘PHENOVIS’
PHENOTHIAZINE DRENCH
FROM STORES, MERCHANTS AND PASTORAL HOUSES
Better for School Books
They stand the rough
and tumble. They’re lighter
and easier to carry.
Ask first for
SCHOOL CASES
wafer
FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
THE MAN ON
THE LANS
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Stripping During Dipping.
“A.M.M.”: It occurs during
dipping with D.D.T. and B.H.C.
preparations, being a reduction
of the insecticide concentration
in the bath as dipping goes on.
The C.S.I.R. found that strip-
ping was slower from plunge-
dips than from power-sprays,
and that the bigger the plunge-
dip the less stripping occurred.
In a statement on the subject the
C.S.I.R. says the “effect of
staple length on the dipped sheep
is not to increase the rate of
stripping directly but to increase
the quantity of dip removed
from the bath per sheep and
hence to necessitate more fre-
quent replenishments.”
This applied more so to
power-sprays, when wetting was
more complete and hence more
dip was taken out by the sheep.
With power-sprays the rate of
stripping increases as the volume
of fluid in the sump diminishes,
and is greater if the sump is of
small capacity.
The amount of stripping was
found to vary greatly with dif-
ferent formulations. In none of
these trials, however, was the
rate such as to reduce the insec-
ticide concentration below effec-
tive levels, provided the
prescribed initial concentrations
were used and replenishments
were made as directed.
This shows how important it
is to follow and abide by the
manufacturers’ recommendations
if maximum benefit is to be
obtained from dipping.
Advantage of Polls.
“G.C.S.”: The Poll Shorthorn
Society of Australasia has col-
lected some rather striking facts
and figures in connection with
the use of polled (that is, de-
horned) cattle as contrasted with
natural polls.
Cattle leaving the Kimberleys
(W.A.) for Perth and other
markets are sold on the hoof to
wholesale buyers—a require-
ment of the quarantine regula-
tions—as five- and six-year-olds.
They may travel up to 250 miles
overland to the port of Derby
and then be aboard a ship for a
week. The amount of bruising
sustained can be imagined.
In 1934 W. MacDonald, of
Fossil Downs, began dehorning
all male cattle on the -station,
from calves to four-year-olds.
It was apparent at once, and
continued so for the next five
years, that dehorning knocked
the cattle back and caused deaths.
What’s more, though the cattle
reached the sales with less bruis-
ing and brought higher prices
per pound, they were lighter than
horned beasts and made lower
averages per head. By the end
of 1939 MacDonald saw that
the experiment was a costly
failure.
There was no margin for
error. Horned and dehorned
bullocks were grazed together,
travelled as one mob over the
stock-route, were shipped on the
same boats but in different pens
to Fremantle. In all 1782 horned
bullocks and 1659 dehorned
were sold. Though the butchers
paid more per pound for the de-
horned, they averaged out at
13s. 9d. a head lower than the
horned bullocks. Even those
which had been dehorned as
calves failed to get within 245. 7d.
a head of their horned mates.
While this was going on Mac-
Donald was introducing Poll
Shorthorns into his herds. When
he began to sell the naturally
hornless beef there was an im-
mediate difference. From 1946
to 1949 833 natural polls were
sold and 1569 horned. Average
price of the horned was
£l5 7s. 3d., of the Poll Short-
horns £l5 18s. 5d., a gain by
the natural polls of 11s. 2d. a
head. In September last a draft
of 395 Fossil Downs bullocks
contained 150 polls and 245
hornies. The polls averaged
£22 18s. lOd.; the hornies
£2O 19s. sd.
Hybrid Maize.
“Agric”: Last year hybrid-
maize seed was on sale in
Queensland for the first time, but
only about 300 bushels were
available. This year it is ex-
pected that at least four times
this quantity will be available
for sale. The aims in breed-
ing hybrid maize for south-
eastern Queensland, says W. W-
Bryan, in the “Queensland Agri-
cultural Journal,” are higher
yields of sound grain, and a plant
which would be fairly resistant
to insects, diseases, heat and
wind. Generally, these had been
achieved, and, in addition, the
type of hybrid produced showed
remarkable uniformity in plant-
type, ears and grain.
On the average yield of 26
bushels per acre, an increase of
about four bushels per acre had
“Oh, dear—I feel NAKED!”
been gained ; in better seasons,
on a 78-bushel crop, an increase
of nearly 12 bushels per acre
would be expected. Bryan points
out that hybrid maize is a com-
bination of four different inbred
lines, at first combined in pairs
to form single crosses, or “foun-
dation hybrids.” A pair of single
crosses is then combined, and
this part of the work is done by
private growers under strict
supervision.
Seed is sold only if it has met
all the requirements of hybrid-
maize seed certification. The area
on which the seed crop is grown
must be registered with the de-
partment and approved as suit-
able ; at flowering there must be
no other maize within a quarter
of a mile which is shedding
pollen while receptive silks are
present on the female or ear
parent, of the cross ; the single
cross chosen as the ear parent
must be thoroughly detasselled
at flowering-time—all tassels
being removed before the plants
have shed any pollen—and har-
vesting of the crossed seed, its
shelling and bagging, must be
done under the supervision of a
seed-certification officer, and the
bags of seed available for sale
officially labelled.
For the protection of growers,
before any hybrid can be cer-
tified it is thoroughly tested in
the various regions of south-
eastern Queensland listed as pro-
viding different growing condi-
tions. At present certified seed
of eight hybrids is being pro-
duced.
Red-rot in Sugarcane.
“Beroo”: As the end of the
crushing season approaches
farmers should be on the look-
out for signs of red-rot in over-
mature crops. The first obvious
symptoms are wilting and death
of the top, but frequently some
time before this a general pinch-
ing-out of the top will be noticed,
and stalks split lengthwise will
show the characteristic redden-
ing which gives the disease its
name.
Once it is apparent in a field
the crop should be harvested as
soon as possible, for the c.c.s. of
the diseased field falls very
rapidly, and within a few weeks
may be so low that the cane is
condemned at the mill. Badly
diseased fields ratoon poorly,
and if the soil be very dry the
ratoons may fail completely,
Both Q. 50 and Q. 28 are the
varieties to watch in most dis-
tricts of the central and southern
areas, and any remaining uncut
fields of C 0.290 are liable to
deteriorate very suddenly.
How Rabbits Multiply.
“A.G.P.”: In B. 5/10/’49
“C.S.” quotes figures compiled
by the N.Z. Department of
Agriculture and issued by the
Australian Wool Board that one
pair of rabbits can increase to
9,624,416 in three years, and
that a doe has eight litters of
six in a year and the young ones
breed at 15 weeks. If that were
true there would be no Wool
Board, only a Rabbit Board.
One has only to consider a per-
son with 100 acres netted-in and
250 pairs of rabbits on it. If
they had a fair go for three
years, like they did on many
farms during the war years,
there would be thousands of
millions. How many would be
on a station which had 3000
pairs on it when war broke out
and on which there has been
very little done since on ac-
count of the labor shortage?
No grass-eating animal suckles
litters all the year; they breed
in the spring, when there is feed.
I’ve had 60 years’ experience
fighting rabbits on my different
properties in many parts, and
this is how I find they breed:
They breed only in spring;
they have two litters of an aver-
age of four; the young do not
breed until the following spring ;
they do not breed in a drought
year; so one pair would in-
crease to 500 in three years.
Allowing for 50 per cent, casual-
ties, that is quite fast enough for
any landowner, as a few hun-
dred pairs would soon increase
to millions.
“Rabbito”: “H.A.W.P.’s” in-
formation (B. 2/11/ ’49) on rab-
bit-breeding is misleading. He
states that a rabbit family of
three does and two bucks is re-
peated in normal course, by
each doe, every three months,
and that, in consequence, one
buck and one doe will have
multiplied to 10,715 rabbits in
nine months.
A check produced the follow-
ing figures;—
Months. Bucks. Does. Total.
July 1 I I 2
Plus 3 months’
progeny 2 3 5
October 7 .... 3 4 7
Plus 3 months’
progeny 8 12 20
January 1 11 16 27
Plus 3 months’
progeny 32 48 80
April 1, 9 months 43 64 107
This is 10,608 short. A check
on the “10 rabbits that multi-
plied to 196,830 in 12 months,”
with an extra buck thrown into
the calculations on a basis of
10 does, gave this result; :
Months. Bucks. Does. Total.
1 10 11
3 months’ progeny 20 30 50
21 40 61
3 „ „ 80 120 200
101 160 261
3 „ „ 320 480 800
421 640 1061
3 „ „ 1280 1920 3200
12 „ „ 1701 2560 4261
This is 192,569 short. Plainly,
on those figures, there wouldn’t
be anything like sufficient rab-
bits to “eat the grass of 8200
sheep” even if the bunnies were
unmolested “for a year in a five-
acre paddock.”
Fertilising Vegetables.
“Myrr”: For the vegetable
garden it’s best to rely chiefly on
organic manures, using artificials
more as a stimulant. Used with


SMOKERS
PIPE TOBACCOS THAT ARE
BLEMDED TO GIVE
SATISFACTION TO ALL.
HOUSE OF MURPHY. A blend of
the highest grade of leaf to give a
cool smoke of satisfaction that men
prefer. 22/- per lb. Posted.
A.A.A. HIIiETOP. A blend of
Australian, American and African.
20/- per lb. Posted.
WINSTON READ'S RUBBED
CIGARETTE TOBACCO. Greatly
improved by better blending of
mature leaf. 24/- per lb. Posted.
Special Quotes to Retailers for lots SOlb.
weight or over.
Write to: Cash Order Dept.,
Hillman Trading Co.,
Commercial Road, Brisbane.
Postage paid on Cash with order.
Postage extra on C.O.D. Orders.
Nu-METAL
SAVES
ENGINE
REBORE
NEW
RINGS
Just pour RE-NU Liquid NU-METAL
through plug holes. NU-METAL will re-
condition your motor while you drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles, and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL has been proved and
tested by over 100,000 users since 1934.
many owners having used NU-METAL
three and four times in the same engine.
NU-METAL comes to you in a separ-
ate tube for each cylinder, thus eliminat-
ing guess work. Municipal Councils,
Engineers, etc., use NU-METAL. Treatment
costs for 1,4, 6, 8 cylinders, 10/6, 30/-,
37/6, 45/-. Call, write, or phone MA7250.
Mail Orders post free. C.O.D.’* plus
Postal Charges.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return NU-
METAL to treat a Cylinder Engine.
1 enclose Cheque—P.N.
Or please send me illustrated Folder
describing action of NU-METAL.
NtUDC, a,,,,,,,,,,,.,,,,,,,, .....,,.,
Addles*.
B. 2S/11/’4O
BRISTOL TRADING COMPANY
Ist Floor, Bristol House,
147 Elizabeth Street. Sydney. UA 7250.
HEALTHY SMOKING
THE BRITISH
BUTTNER PIPE
with highly-porous ceramic filter.
No breaking-in, bite, burn, wet
dottle or waste.
19/6 ea. Spare Filters 1/3 ea.
Buttner Plastic Pouches (5/6)
and Pipe Reamers (5/3).
Obtainable at: Boans Ltd. and T.
Sharp, Perth. Nat Solomons and
Harris Scarfe Ltd., Adelaide. Alstons,
Dammans, and J. Frost, Melbourne.
Farmers, Anthony Horderns, Grace
Bros., Peaces and Prior Bros., Sydney.
R. Black, Queen St., Brisbane. Or
direct from the Distributors—
CHARLES WHETTON Pty. Ltd.,
156 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Illustrated leaflet on request.
£
BABY
LOVES
to revel In the delight-
ful cream-like lather of
Cuticura Soap, . It
keeps his tender skin
healthy and ex-
quisitely soft
and velvety.
One of the famous i
trio-Cuticura Soap. |
Ointment and Tal-
cum Powder.
530
fd
if vou
WERE
THERE
Vouraelf
m
< ■
? *
>&w
MW>-
:‘l Vi
:Vv.
<y-*v
•HKT
• • •••♦♦♦•#••••♦
... your wool could receive
no greater attention, for A.M.L.&F. experts are at work
in your interests at every stage—valuing, lotting and
displaying your wool to the best advantage. You are
always assured of the best possible price when the
“A.M.L.&F. man” sells
your wool!
86 Years in the Service of the Man on the Land
INC. IN ENGLAND, 1863.
AML & .E
A24.4S
AUSTRALIAN, MERCANTILE, LAND & FINANCE COY. LTD.
4 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
AND AT MELBOURNE AND BRISBANE.
Country Branches— N.S.W.: Newcastle, Wagga, Henty, Hay, Oowra, Scone,
Moree, Garah, Wee Waa, Brewarrina. Q’ld: Townsville, Oharleville, St.
George, Cunnamulla, Dirranbandi. Assoc. Agents: McPhie & Co. Pty.,
Ltd., Toowoomba, Oakey, Dalby and Pittsworth. Vic.: Wodonga.
f tyr
Your choice Is CINZANO
Vermouth, whether your taste is for
tweet or dry. CINZANO Vermouth
gives Just that extra exhilarating tang
to the palate.
SECTIONS
SPBAT
,
mmmm . <
Wbbssu mm
y<
y
Here’s what you gain...
Surging further ahead in the spray irrigation
field, RAINBOW now introduce ALUMINIUM
Spray Sections. This is just another reason why you
should instal RAINBOW SPRAY IRRIGATION . . . the
system already renowned for such features as the combined
outlet and hydrant, flexible couplings and improved spray-
heads. Rainbow is the only system with a 48-ft. coverage.
ONLY HALF THE WEIGHT:
Rainbow’s new Aluminium Sections are approximately half the weight of normal
piping. This means a further cut in time and labour.
SEAMLESS. 24 - FT. SPRAY SECTIONS;
Frictional loss in RAINBOW Aluminium Sections has been reduced by at least
10%. They may be used for all water purposes and are supplied with flexible
couplings or non-flexible joins.
COSTS STILL LOW:
Though the cost of a new RAINBOW Aluminium plant is naturally higher than
previous Rainbow systems—-because of the many RAINBOW advantages—the cost
of our complete plant—WlTH ALUMINIUM SECTIONS —is still comparable with
other systems. Longer life and labour-saving features cost you less in the long
run. Remember—irrigation is essential—spray irrigation is best—and RAINBOW
make the best spray irrigation.
IMPROVED SPRAY HEADS.
FLEXIBLE COUPLINGS.
83 Pitt Street, Sydney. ‘Phone: BU 3425
Queensland: WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LTD.,
102-124 Melbourne St.. Sth. Brisbane. Victoria:
C. BEAUMONT, 64 King St.. Melbourne—MU 5271.
South Australia: RALPH CURRY, 24 Light Sq..
Adelaide. 'Phone: C 1065.
COMBINED OUT-
LET & HYDRANT.
STURDY STANDS.
discretion they’re an invaluable
help to rapid, healthy growth,
but their indiscriminate use can
throw the organic plant foods in
the soil right out of balance.
Nitrogen (sulphate of
ammonia or nitrate of soda), for
example, can cause deficiencies
in phosphates or potash and
vice versa. Again, some crops
need more of one kind of arti-
ficial than another.
Leaf crops, for instance, need
more nitrogen than beans or
peas, which thrive on super. To
be on the safe side, apply the
artificials in the complete form
—namely, one • containing the
three elements, nitrogen, phos-
phorus and potassium, and never
allow the fertiliser to come in
contact with freshly-sown seed
or the roots of newly-planted
seedlings.
Pasture-improvement.
“Mr.”: The more intepsive
it becomes the greater the need
for management, and this in-
cludes rabbit-control, judicious
grazing, fodder-conservation and
adequate fertilising. Stocking-
rates and choice of stock are
important; one of the com-
monest errors when calculating
what a paddock will carry is to
overlook the feed eaten by
rabbits.
Lightly graze a newly-sown
pasture and, in the early stages,
keep sheep and other close-
grazing animals off it. In a
young sward the object is to
allow each of the sown species
access to light, yet to avoid over-
grazing, which can fatally
weaken the plants. In the first
season take off stock soon
enough to permit seeding and to
allow a residue of herbage to
protect perennial species in the
hot weather and seedlings of
annual species in autumn.
To preserve a balance between
grasses and clovers calls for in-
telligent management. Pastures
leniently grazed by cattle be-
come predominantly grassy; on
the other extreme, if heavily
grazed by sheep they become
clover-dominant. On country
where both sheep and cattle can
be run together, the ratio 10
sheep to one beast will ensure
a pretty even balance between
the grasses and the clovers.
Pig-raising Up North.
“Agric”: A holiday trip to
the Northern Territory was re-
sponsible for two brothers, W.
and J. Alexander, of Toowoomba
(Q.), deciding to go in for
sorghum-growing and pi g-
faising at Sturt Plains, about 27
miles north of Newcastle Waters
(N.T.). Working day and night
seven tractors have ploughed up
the first 1000 acres, and the first
crop of sorghum will be railed
to Darwin, 400 miles away, for
shipment to Britain, It is
intended, when farms are ready,
to muster some of the pigs now
running wild on the Daly River,
They are descended from pigs
raised by about 20 farmers estab-
lished on farms there by the
South Australian Government.
The brothers now have 18
other men, mostly young men
who have worked for them at
various times, associated with
them. The “farm” comprises
22,000 acres of first-class black-
soil country, similar to the
Dalby district of Queensland,
and in addition to grain
sorghum, upland rice, sunflower,
hybrid maize, soya bean and
millet are to be grown.
Hints for the Farm.
“Ware”: When moving, take
treasured bulbs, corms, roots
and cuttings as personal luggage.
A delay in the railing of the
furniture will result in the loss
of all but the hardiest of the
rooted pieces, and, if packed
among the cuttings, the bulbs
may be spoilt by mould or decay.
“Billjim”: Between a dozen
and two dozen tomato plants
will provide ample fruit for
average family needs. To en-
sure continuity of supply plant
at intervals during November
when all danger from late frosts
is over. Plant a little deeper
than the original soil-mark, 6in,
apart, and water in with a
nutrient solution of |oz. of sul-
phate of ammonia or nitrate of
soda and loz. of super, to two
gallons water. Make up 48 hours
before use. Be careful to stake
plants as soon as they are high
enough and give them the first
insecticidal spraying or dusting.
“Perseverando”: When using
a cross-cut saw single-handed,
get an old motor-tyre to help
you. Tie two ropes to the tyre
as you would tie string to the
elastic on a shanghai. Juggle
your log handy to a fence, tree
or other fixture. Fasten one
rope to the free end of the saw
and the other rope to the fixture
slightly below the horizontal
line of the saw; now get to it.
The elastic will hold the free
end steady when cutting, and,
when you tire, the pull of the
elastic will seem like a mate on
the other end of the saw. The
principle can be used for sawing
standing timber.
“Quorn”: Some of our most
ornamental trees are the euca-
lypts. Mallee is not the favorite
it should be although there are
many beautiful varieties avail-
able from nurserymen. Malices
grow reasonably fast and are
friendly, shady little trees with,
in season, a wealth of blossom.
“K.T.”: When planning a
poultry-house allow about 9in.
roost-space for heavy breeds and
Tin. for light breeds. The roosts
themselves should be 15in.
apart and should not be too
high off the ground. About
24in. is a suitable height; the
roosts should be movable for
cleaning purposes.
“Beroo”: Seeds of legumes
are very liable to attack by
weevils and other insects, par-
ticularly in warmer parts of
Queensland, but they can be
kept sound by mixing with a 2
p.c. D.D.T. dust at the rate of
2oz. per bushel of seed. The
mixing must be thorough so that
every grain has a fine coating
of dust; the protection will
then last for the life of the
seeds.
“Rooster”: A good practice
for the home-gardener is to sow
root crops at this time of the
year between rows of beans
which have been given a little
extra spacing. This affords
young carrots, parsnips, turnips,
beet, etc., good shelter from hot
winds and heat. In summer all
root crops should be thinned
at an early stage, watering be-
fore and after thinning to settle
the soil around the roots of the
survivors.


DECEMBER 1948: First public showing of Holden
JAN.-MARCH 1949:
Motoring experts enthuse
over Holden’s performance.
M
y'ctf't
■ ■ v ■:
V—
w
so*
•ft
inf.
\>
7
phrth , wr
T 4
so
vheMtl
THi
*UA
S OUTH
###
0 0
Letters are coming in from Holden owners from every
part of Australia. Extracts from a few of these letters
are reprinted here, and they give convincing proof
that Holden stands up to all the claims made for it.
"Five passengers and myself and a full
boot ... it flies over the range .”
• . After completing 6,000 miles in my
Holden ... I want to say just how satisfied
I am with it. The Holden is used mainly
in supervising my Helidon-to-Toowoomba
co-ordinated bus service, and as you know
how steep the range is on this section, I
am pleased to say the Holden literally ‘eats
up the range’ with no effort at all. I can
drive the Holden all the way up the range
in top gear, whereas with five passengers
and myself and a boot full of luggage, it
flies over the range in second gear. The
average petrol consumption on this range
work is 28 m.p.g. . , .”
J. F. McC,
Toowoomba, Q.
“Corduroy no nightmare . . .
potholes merely a nuisance
. . A few trips in particular are worth
mentioning—Brisbane to Coolangatta, 43
m.p.g. —Brisbane to Esk with six passengers,
31 m.p.g.—and Brisbane to Gympie, 40
m.p.g. This latter trip includes 37 miles
of very poor surface. The car at the
present time is averaging for all types of
driving 33-35 m.p.g. . . . This car’s ability
to dampen out the worst
of roads is well worthy of
mention. Corduroy is no
longer a nightmare and pot-
holes merely a nuisance.
The seats could not be more
comfortable ... in 30 years’
motoring I consider the
Holden my best ‘buy’ and
the best value offering today.”
T. V. W.
Albion, Q.
“The car will cruise all day at . . .
65-70 m.p.h."
. . I have kept accurate records of running
expenses and can only describe the economy
of the car as phenomenal; petrol con-
sumption for 6,000 miles has been 204
gallons—an average of 29.41 miles per
gallon . . . More than 3,000 miles have been
driven at high speed on interstate journeys
and I find that the car will cruise all day
at a perfectly comfortable 65 to 70 m.p.h.
if required, packing 60 miles into each
hour on main highways. I recently covered
approximately 1,000 miles of severely
pot-holed and corrugated road in Western
N.S.W. at a steady 60/65 m.p.h. and found
the comfort, dust-proofness and general road-
worthiness of the car to be astounding . . .”
K. L.
Port Melbourne , Vic,
JS
“Holden was the only vehicle . . .
to get through ”
. . an average of 30 m.p.g. over, bad
roads, hilly in places, I am more than
satisfied with the Holden as an all weather
car. During July’s heavy fall of snow the
Holden was the only vehicle, including
trucks, to get through from Adaminaby to
Cooma when the snow was at its heaviest
approximately 8 inches in depth ...”
P- J ■ s.
Adaminaby, N.S. IF.
★
“Used for Droving Sheep ”
"... I am full of praise for the outstanding
performance of my Holden. The petrol
consumption is remarkable as, over the
whole period, I have averaged 33 miles per
gallon, which on a number of occasions
the car has been used for droving sheep,
and general paddock work . . .”
R. H. F.
Kadina, S.A.
★
“Combines all the features I require ”
. . I have owned many fine cars but have
yet to own one that combines all the features
I require. The Holden does this. I have
no criticisms at all to offer. Of course,
its most outstanding feature is its outstand-
ing economy which has worked out at
31 m.p.g. for all running . . .”
P. B. M. W.
Boy up Brook, W.A.
Send for this Free Booklet
“Holden Owners Tell Their Story’
Read the letters
★
owners have / I
written them-
selves. Reprinted
in the free booklet are their
opinions of Holden, the way it
behaves under driving conditions
peculiar to their territory, the
mileage they are getting from
the particular way they drive.
Call or write for your copy
today from your nearest G.M.-H.
authorised distributor or dealer,
and let the experience of Holden
owners be your guide when
ordering your car.
372-B
It’s no wonder there has been such a unanimous and enthusiastic
reception of Holden by Australian motorists. It is the one car
built with the Australian motorists' needs and requirements in
mind . . . the, one car planned, designed and engineered to suit
all Australian conditions—city and country.
Holden is roomy and comfortable, has plenty of pep and power and
is amazingly economical. Most Holden owners are getting over
130 m.p.g., and this for a 21 h.p. 5-6 passenger car, is phenomenal.
At present the demand exceeds the supply, but production is
increasing every day. Your nearest Holden Distributor or Dealer
will be able to give you the latest news on delivery dates, and we
suggest you have a talk to him. £697 plus Sales Tax.
Australia's Own Car .. . HOLDEN—the car that’s worth waiting for!
“Air Chief" Radios are specially designed for Holden. Air Chief 5-valve Convenient hire purchase terms are available through G.M.A.C.—
with a 6-inch speaker, or Air Chief 6-valve with an 8-inch speaker. * General Motors’ own finance company,
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN’S LIMITED
Brisbane . Sydney . Melbourne . Adelaide . Perth
ERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN’S LIMITED • • Sold and Serviced by Holden Dealers throughout Australia
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Copy of any publication that gives
the full story of the _Archer-Shee
case. —4732.
Words of verse beginning: —
As I was coming down Conroy’s Gap
I heard a maiden cry.
—4731.
To buy kerosene vaporiser or kero-
sene carburettor suitable for
ing 10-h.p. petrol engine (4 cyl. car)
to run on kerosene. Engine would
be used as stationary plant.—4733.
To buy Black’s Flora of South
Australia. —4730.
To get in touch with agents for
“Sylvia” separators.—4735.
Words of “Australaise,” by C. J.
Dennis, beginning: —
Fellers of Australier,
Blokes and coves and coots.
-4736.
Does Anybody Know?
Identity of “Y,” author of “A
Bush Story,” and “Narharp,” author
of “A Drive on an Antipodean Bus”
and “An Australian Campfire Yarn”
—articles contributed to the “Glas-
gow University Magazine” about 50
years ag0. —4729.
Meaning of Maori place-name
Wakatipu.—4734.
Information Sought.
(1) How to remove soot-stains
from a brick fireplace? (2) How to
counteract the effects of sulphuric
acid that has saturated the inner
walls of a wooden cabinet ?
(1) One method which has been
used is to scrub the brick surface
with an old brush dipped in dilute
hydrochloric acid, using a mixture of
one part of commercial hydrochloric
acid to three parts of water. Care
has to be taken to keep this away
from the mortar, and the wall should
be rinsed thoroughly with water after
application. If this is not found
effective you could try scrubbing with
kerosene, either alone or with a
paste, incorporating soap-powder or
a commercial detergent such as G. 2.
(2) If the sulphuric acid was very
strong it may have charred the wood
and that damage cannot be rectified.
Further damage, however, can be
prevented by soaking the wood
thoroughly with a solution of
washing-soda or ammonia.
* * * *
How to clean a tiled roof that is
partly covered with moss?
Use a solution of two ounces of
copper sulphate, otherwise known as
bluestone or blue vitriol, in 10 gal-
lons of water. This, when sprayed
on the roof, should kill the moss
or other growth, which can later be
brushed off. The solution should be
made up and kept in an earthenware
or wooden vessel (not iron) and the
solution should be washed from the
guttering and downpipes, as it affects
the iron.
* * * *
Is an exemption from income tax
allowed for money expended on pros-
pecting and developing a New Guinea
goldmine? Are members of a work-
ing syndicate exempt from income
tax on gold won?
Income derived by a person from
the working of a mining property in
Australia or New Guinea, principally
for the purpose of obtaining gold, is
exempt from income tax. ITiis
exemption would apply to all mem-
bers of the syndicate. No deduction
is allowable in respect of plant pur-
chased nor for exploration and pros-
pecting expenses, but, if the mining
operations result in a loss, such loss
may be claimed as a deduction.
* * * *
How many bushels of f.a.q. wheat
are required to produce one ton of
flour? What would be the by-
products and their weight?
To produce one long ton of flour
(22401 b.) from wheat at an extraction
rate of 72 per cent., 51.85 bushels
of wheat at 601 b. per bushel would
be required. The by-products ob-
tained in milling wheat into flour are
bran and pollard. The relative
amounts of bran and pollard obtained
vary slightly according to the milling
system employed, but usually slightly
more pollard than bran is obtained.
On the assumption that of the offals
13 per cent, is bran and 15 per cent,
is pollard, 4051 b. of bran and 4671 b.
of pollard would be obtained.
* * * *
How to re-polish a rosewood desk ?
Wipe clean with a damp rag, then
with a soft cotton cloth go all over
it with sewing-machine oil, sparingly
applied, and wipe dry. If there are
any scratches or marks, touch up
with a weak solution of permanganate
of potash in water to impart a brown
shade; if too light, apply a second
coating. Then finish with any good
furniture polish or a mixture of bees-
wax shredded into turpentine and
melted over a water bath; an open
flame is dangerous with these
materials. Polish with a silk cloth.
If the desk is in bad condition it
may be necessary to sandpaper it,
apply stain, and then varnish or
polish.
Brief Answers.
A. 8.8.: Write N.S.W. Agricultural
Dept., Sydney, for free pamphlet
“Diseases of Tomatoes and How to
Control Them” H.H.: Gregory’s
Guide to the Blue Mountains of
N.S.W. (25.), obtainable from
Gregory’s Guides and Maps, 59
Regent-street, Sydney P.J.C.: Ac-
cording to A. E. Martin’s Place
Names in Victoria, Colac is an
aboriginal word meaning “fresh
water” J.T.L.: From Government
Printing Office, Brisbane A.N.C.:
“Sinister” in heraldry means left and
“dexter” right, but with the contrary
sense to what would naturally suggest
itself, the left and right being that
of the person bearing, not of an
observer facing, the shield F.J.W. :
Write Arthur Yates and Co., 184
Sussex-street, Sydney C.8.C.: The
Petconnie sailed from Liverpool on
October 15 and is due at Sydney on
December 8. Sydney agents are
Gilchrist, Watt and Sanderson, 5
O’Connell-street R.G.: A plural
verb should be used with a compound
subject. “His knowledge, judgment
and experience arc appreciated” is
strictly correct. However, some
literary men prefer a singular verb,
particularly where the meanings of
the parts of the subject are similar,
as in “His honesty and integrity was
known” Adelina: As the Granny
Smith apple is self-sterile, it will be
necessary to grow a tree of another
variety for the purpose of cross-
pollination. If you will forward your
name and address a leaflet on the
subject will be posted L.L.0.; At
the last Olympic Games 59 nations
competed. U.S.A., 547.5 points (36
first prizes), was Ist; Sweden, 308.5
points (16 first prizes), 2nd; France,
206 points (5 first prizes), 3rd; and
Hungary, 183.1 points (9 first prizes),
4th. Australia, with 82 points (2
first prizes), was 11th L.A.H.:
Since the use of birdlime for the
purpose of catching birds is pro-
hibited by law in your State, we
regret that we cannot furnish re-
quired particulars.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the
MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS, should be
addressed to the Editor.
J.S.H.: If we said there was a
flicker of promise in them, the flicker
would sue us for defamation of
character M.J.R.: To the tomb
with it! R.S.C.: Afraid your
sympathetic stanzas would not com-
fort the inhabitants of the monkey-
pit A.S.: Poem is like soda-water
with the fizz omitted D.M.L.:
Promising work, but subject done to
death 8.L.N.: Declined gladly.
You write a baffling fist D.H.W.:
Received your Pacific Island story,
but the office’s tame cannibal has
doubts about the local color A.A.:
Three very 1 depressing contributions.
.... Bellerive: Quite a playful
prancer;
T.W.: It reminds us of the
tender lines which suburban curates
used to read to our grandmother:
Sweet lady mine who glitterest
In shimmer of summer athwart the lawns
Canst tell me which is bitterest —
The glamor of eve or the glimmer of
dawn ?
. ...R.8.8.: Note your modest re-
marks that you are “very good at
poetry.” We’ll take your word for it,
and assume that the samples you sent
are somebody else’s A.K.McD.:
Poem to hand. We note with plea-
sure that it is your intention to return
to the old home. We also note that
the report circulated by certain par-
ties that you are the black sheep
of the family is utterly unfounded.
8.8.: One verse from “Fairy-
land”: —
Have you ever been to Fairyland?
Oh, ’tis a sweet and lovely land.
A gay and cheery bonny land,
Is Fairyland, dear old Fairyland.
We would have printed more, but
feared it might be more than several
of our hard-drinking, hardboiled
friends could bear C.M.F.: It’s
one of the most consistent yarns
we’ve met this year. That is to say,
plot, characterisation, local color,
composition and spelling are all
dreadful C.A.S.: Your friends
who persuade you that you can write
are deceivers 0.F.: If you think
that’s poetry, and are letting your
hair grow long in consequence, you
are starving the barber under false
pretences... .F.L.: Poem tries hard
to soar, but merely flaps.
JOHNNY COLEMAN: THE SCARECROW
DANCER.
With arms outstretched
In a grotesque way,
To strains of music he
Hid dance and sway.
Loud laughter and
Applause rang out
As he capered, twirled
And leaped about.
A comedian from
Old London town
Was Johnny Coleman
Of wide renown.
A grey haired old dad
Would have no chance
For to give vent to
The scarecrow dance.


Established 1808
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
leutitutions throughout Australia
Jf
JACKSON ,v,
<KStIUJVA>f
. a, rncwn A ,
b»>*s
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating?
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
BEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
•TEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVER*
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS. BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : I PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“IACKSUL,” BRISBANE
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
0
6«
Cofdnsult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
MEMORI«, thE asE
Pass Examinations.
Speak Without Notes.
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Send stamp for booklet.
Rev. W. Rowlands,
12 Younger Grove,
Caulfield, S.E.B, Victoria.
&s
s
J
,
o
o
f
Although most Australians are enjoy-
ing higher incomes than ever before,
today’s high prices make you dig deep
into your wallet to keep going.
If you want to gain full benefit
from your higher income, stop for a
moment and think of the causes of the
present high prices and shortages.
SHORTAGES AFFECT PRICES
Ever since the war, Australian industry
has been trying to catch up with the
vast demand for goods of all kinds
that banked up during the war. Over-
seas, the world’s producing countries
are facing the same problem. Every-
where, manpower is insufficient to meet
requirements. New equipment is diffi-
cult to obtain. Raw materials are scarce
and costly. Because the demand is still
so much greater than supply, prices
are high.
WHAT CAN BE DONE?
One obvious remedy is to increase pro-
duction. Increased production will help
to eliminate shortages, thus relaxing
inflationary pressure. Increased pro-
duction also means that costs are spread
over a higher output —providing an
additional opportunity for lowering
prices.
Since our production resources cannot
be expanded fast enough, the vitally
important increase can only come from
our existing manpower and equipment.
This is where you come into the picture.
HOW YOU CAN HELP
If all Australians —managers, office
workers, technicians, employees in
every trade category —co-operate fully
to obtain maximum efficiency, put a
little extra thought and determination
into the daily task, a really worthwhile
increase in production will be obtained.
In every industry where co-operation
and commonsense have been fully
applied, much wasted time and energy
have been eliminated, resulting in
higher output without extra work.
Help to increase efficiency in your
industry. You’ll find the more you put
into your job, the greater will be the
all-round production. Prices will soon
respond, and you’ll be taking less out
of your wallet to pay the weekly
expenses.
DO A GOOD JOB
for yourself and Australia
Authorised by the Treasurer of the Commonwealth.
NS77.m.lC*
close to the house. And when
the echoes died away there came
the voices.
“Hey, you! Wait a minute!”
And then, “What the hell do
you want? Damn!” This one
was undoubtedly Mr. Greeley’s,
Dossy’s wife joined him, and
they looked at the scene through
the window. Mr. Greeley stood
about thirty yards away from
the house and held in his hand
a gun. Rastus was paddling back
to land with just his head show-
ing, mouthing a duck. He
scrambled up the bank and
dropped the bird at Mr. Gree-
ley’s feet. Holding his pants up
with one hand, running along
the skyline, and now down the
side of the hill, was the stranger.
He disappeared for a moment
into a gully, and Mr, Greeley
acted hurriedly. He grabbed the
duck and hurled it up under a
log. He reloaded his gun and
fired into the air, Rastus
bounded back into the lake, but
then swam around bewildered,
finding nothing.
The stranger panted up to
Mr. Greeley. He thrust at him
a glittering card-cover.
“Game warden. Where are
they?”
“What?” replied the man with
the gun.
“You know darned well what
I mean. You know you’re
shooting on a sanctuary. Out
of season. On Sunday. Within
a mile of a public school.”
“I ought to know it’s a sanc-
tuary,” replied Mr. Greeley
coolly; “I made it one. I see.
You think I was shooting at
ducks. No one shoots at ducks
on my sanctuary. My name’s
Greeley. I like shooting, no
doubt about it, but in season,
and well clear of sanctuaries. You
could call what I’ve been doing
here target practice, both for me
and my dog. I aim at a twig
on the water; he has a swim.
I see no schoolchildren in my
line of fire. If it’s Sunday I’m
sorry. Did you see me shoot
anything? Can you see a bird
here dead? I think you need at
least one for evidence. My
name, as I Said, is Greeley. Any-
one about here will tell you who
I am.”
And at that moment Rastus,
still looking for something more
substantial to lay before the gun-
man than his piece of river-
weed, sniffed his way up the
bank, sniffed while he shook
himself over both men, sniffed
with the unerring scent con-
firmed a dozen times in his pedi-
gree. He sniffed up under the
log and fished out the duck.
Mrs. Dossy had her wish.
The Poisoned Melon
BY HALF LLOYD
Confucius say “A man’s
wisdom is as deep as his
neighbor’s
wherein Lin Chow was a
very wise man.
The wisdom of Lin Chow
grew in the minds of the people
of Wattleville and he became a
symbol of peace and content-
ment. His market - garden
flourished on the river bank in
the quiet countryside. The river
was deep and generous and the
soil responded to his care.
To the children he was a spark
for the imagination, and they
freely endowed him with any
kind and number of supernatural
powers. Perhaps that explained
why he only had the frost to
fight for possession of the
glorious riielons that lay in
yellow green majesty, cupped like
giant opals, in the brow palm of
the sun-scorched grass.
Lovingly he watched their
growth and often could be seen
standing among them immobile
as a statue. He never lacked an
audience of small boys, cun-
ningly camouflaged, but uncom-
fortably certain that the inscrut-
able one was aware of their
staring eyes.
His every movement had been
faithfully reported by succeeding
waves of cowboys and Indians
down the years, but the report
never varied —until one dreadful
Saturday morning their historic
vigil was rewarded.
As usual Lin Chow shuffled
slowly around his garden tak-
ing careful stock of its welfare.
At last, according to time-
honored ritual, he sought the
company of his melon-patch. In
just the right place he stopped in
silent contemplation. Abruptly
he sprang forward. A slick
would have reaped a harvest of
popping childish eyes, for Lin
Chow was dancing impotent fury
around a neat brown hollow in
the melon-patch. Someone had
dared to rouse the anger and
brave the revengeful spirits of
the Orient. Someone had stolen
a melon!
The town seethed with curi-
osity. Would Lin Chow find the
thief? Would his unknown
powers prevail?
If they hoped to find the
answer from Lin Chow they
were disappointed. As usual he
shuffled amiably from house to
house, his bland wrinkled little
face defying anyone to ask for
more than their vegetable needs.
And still his knowledge of the
English language and his com-
mand of the supernatural was in
doubt.
But one doubt was banished
that evening when the young
scouts returned with the startling
information that Lin Chow had
erected a sign in the melon-
patch :
ONE OF THESE MELONS IS
POISONED.
The women were shocked, and
their husbands chuckled know-
ingly, Lin Chow was a wise old
bird, they agreed heartily, and
drank a toast to the sage.
Each morning a melon ripened
to perfection, and was offered to
some privileged customer as a
token of esteem. But the bill was
no different. Advertising pays.
A second week passed and
Saturday morning was cold and
bleak. Just the day for a real
baked dinner, if only Lin Chow
would hurry himself with the
vegetables. It wasn’t very good
weather for cowboys and
Indians, and so there was no
advance news of Lin Chow’s
movements.
But the morning passed and
still he didn’t come. Mothers
grew worried, then impatient and
finally very angry. Small boys
reluctantly trod the" bush path
to the market-garden, loitering
rebelliously on the way.
The advance - guard didn’t
bother very much about taking
cover until they were close to
their quarry. There stood the
little shack amid the neat ridges
and furrows of the garden. K
was a familiar scene. Puzzled,
they stood till reinforcements
arrived and a whispered consul-
tation was held. Excitedly one
small arm pointed at the sign
standing forbiddingly among the
melons. It was leaning drunkenly
to one side. Suddenly the place
seemed deserted and gloomy.
The cart was gone, and there was
no sign of Lin Chow.
The cordon tightened, and
bravado was mistaken for
bravery as the leader at last dis-
appeared cautiously into the hut.
Quite certain that it was empty,
they cast one last fearful glance
at the surrounding bush and
swooped on the melon-patch.
Puzzled sons thought wistfully
of the easily understood wisdom
of Lin Chow as angry worried
mothers listened to their story
and snatched the melons from
them that they had looted so
joyously.
And what of Lin Chow? He
has left u§ for ever only to
imagine his feelings when he in-
spected his melon-patch earlier
that morning and found his sign
now read:
TWO OF THESE MELONS
ARE POISONED.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first Is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2£<L per line.
White Australia
“Walnick” (B. 2/11/ ’49) obviously for-
gets nothing and learns nothing. He
■quotes instances that occurred before
time and space were annihilated, when the
lesser breeds without the law were held
in thrall by a few uniformed whites and
the threat of “iron shards.” The
Bulletin cartoon mentioned was pub-
lished when India was a servile British
“possession” and the pulling of Chinese
pigtails was a- safe pastime.
The India of today calls no man
master. The China of today is no longer
a sleeping dragon, but a very wideawake
monster, breathing fire and lashing a tail
that cannot be pulled with impunity. We
are not dealing with one humble coolie
and one ignorant Chink but with an
aggregate of hundreds of millions of
proud, sensitive, ambitious people led by
clever political and military strategists.
And we haven’t got even a brick wall to
keep them off the grass.
It is true that, with the aid of U.S.A.,
we have just fought a bloody war to
keep the Asiatics out, but its very bloodi-
ness should teach us to tread lightly on
the toes of potential enemies.
•Another important consideration is the
now-imminent danger that the “lesser
breeds,” who are as proud of their pig-
mentation as we are of our pallor, may
adopt such slogans as “dark India” or
“yellow China” in answer to our “white
Australia.” It could happen tomorrow
without any bloody war, but even as a
cold conflict it could bleed Australia
white to a degree that our economists
cannot imagine without a shudder.
Discretion is the better part of
diplomacy as well as of valor. — Tact
(S.A.).
Victorian Prisons
Recently references were made in the
Victorian Assembly to the modernising
of jail conditions. Something might have
been added on treatment of remand
patients. There is no enclosed shelter in
the remand-yard at Pentridge, and men
without bail and with no charge proved
against them have to stand in sunshine or
rain daily until they are locked into their
cells to wait the morning. There is neither
recreation nor amusement for them.
The remand-yard and dining facility at
the city court cells and lock-up are even
more disgraceful. Many of the men who
have to suffer these conditions may sub-
sequently be proved innocent of the
charges laid against them.
Some time back it was announced
through the Press that compulsory finger-
printing of people before being found
guilty on a charge had been discontinued,
but apparently the same doesn’t apply to
the photographing of people. It should,
of course, as our tradition of justice pro-
vides that a person should be regarded
as possibly innocent until found guilty
by a court.
Another item worth mentioning is the
cell or room in which men waiting to be
called before the court have to wait. It
seems that the expression which was used
in Parliament —treated like cattle —was
very apt. As the penal department is a
reform institution, it should begin at the
very start with its much-needed clean-up,
and the city court and cells would be a
good beginning.—X. S. (Vic.).
Country Living Costs
Once it used to be cheaper to live in
the country than in the city. All that
seems to have changed—if the Riverina
town where I am stationed is any indica-
tion.
Rents are extortionate —if one 4s lucky
enough to find a place to rent. A room
that even a Manly (N.S.W.) landlady
would blush to let for two quid a week
brings ten shillings more than that.
Houses for sale —there aren’t any to rent
—are dearer than in Sydney. Lately a
representative of the War Service Homes
Commission came down from Sydney to
sell partially-built homes. The cheapest,
of weatherboard, was £2500, and they
weren’t even in a decent residential area.
Most of the places I’ve seen in agents’
hands start at £3OOO, and even at Vaucluse
they wouldn’t fetch that.
All manufactured goods and grocery
lines are dearer than in Sydney because
of the freight; and, as many goods are
Jxought in by road transport, further in-
creases can be expected now that the
price of petrol has gone up. All house-
hold appliances, furniture, refrigerators,
radios, etc., are dearer than in the city.
Fruit and vegetables, which one would
expect to be cheaper here than in the Big
Smoke, would have members of Sydney’s
Housewives’ Association dancing the
haka. Oranges are fivepence just now,
although they come only 100 miles;
second-rate apples are a penny cheaper.
Beans, peas and other green vegetables
are dearer than in the Sydney suburb of
Mosman, and the last pound of tomatoes
I bought set me back two bob.
Petrol, tobacco, cigarettes and
cigarette-papers are all dearer by the
freight margin, and a middy of beer
costs tenpence in the saloons and a penny
less in the public bars.
The funny part of it to me, a two-
months’ resident, is that no one kicks
about it, and all seem to think every-
thing is satisfactory. No talk about new
States, decentralisation or anything like
that.— Job (N.S.W.).
Luxury Trains
N. S, Wales is belatedly trying to bring
its trains up to the standards of other
nations. Its Commissioner, Mr. Garside,
claims that with its new and its coming
“yes. Beryl , he's promised to wait six months for me."
rolling-stock the railway will regain the
custom of air-travellers,
To give N. S. Wales decent trains is a
long-overdue reform, but, far from per-
suading air-travellers to revert to train
travel, it will merely give those with a
lack of cash, or lack of an air service, that
to which their fares have long entitled
them. A Victorian Railways official
rightly claims that the new Riverina ex-
press is no improvement on Victoria’s
Spirit of Progress. Luxurious as the latter
is, those who can afford to fly over its
route do so.
Travellers give no thought to a rail-
way’s need of business. Their demand is
for that which only airways supply-
speed and luxury combined with courtesy
from transport staffs. Many train-
travellers rue their inability, to secure
seats on planes, but the reverse is rare,
Considering all aspects, it is sound
economics to use the airways. Meals are
good, and free of extra charge. There
are no sleeper berths for which one must
pay. Trains are cheaper on short
journeys only.
We are reputedly the world’s most pro-
gressive air-minded nation. Mr. Garside’s
ambition is to see us revert to railways in
order to improve the finances of a
notoriously antiquated Government de-
partment. When considered with
Canberra’s aim to grab the passengers for
T.A.A., the logic of the State and Federal
“Labor” Governments’ competing against
each other with rail and air travel is
difficult to grasp. Tackline S. (N.S.W.).
Pise and Mudbrick
There is too much easy talk about pise
and mudbrick (B. 16/11/’49). Pise work
is no less skilled than is bricklaying or
plastering, but requires a different kind
of skill,
Probably one of the reasons for the
widespread prejudice against earth-
building is that the general public knows
only the kind of house that unskilled
hands have built. A well-built pise house,
properly finished, does not make its
earthy origin very obvious, while the
other kind cannot be mistaken. Pise is
not mud and straw, but slightly moist
earth rammed tightly in strong forms. No
straw or other fibrous material is added,
hence its great density and compressive
strength.
Good pise walls need no plaster, either
external or internal. I can show you a
house nearly 30 years old, which shows
no deterioration, and which was not
plastered. No watermixed plaster will
adhere properly to any earth-wall unless
the wall is first treated with some kind of
non-aqueous waterproofing preparation.
Mudbrick, or “adobe,” construction is
neither cheaper nor quicker than pise.
I’ve tried bothy and also “cob,” and have
found that pisd is the cheapest. Its lower
cost is the result of fess labor and material
being required in finishing. It would be
possible to erect the walls of a house in
one day if the job were well organised,
with sufficient labor and equipment. As
the walls are nearly dry when made, the
house could be occupied within a month.
Concrete-mixers could not deal with
mud of the correct consistency for either
sun-dried brick or “cob,” even without the
straw. The main purpose of the straw, or
other fibrous material, is to prevent the
mud from spreading too readily with its
own weight dqring, construction when
forms (or shutters) are not used, and to
spread the inevitable shrinkage and
cracking throughout the mass, causing
millions of tiny cracks to form in the
walls, instead of a few dozen large ones,
Straw does not add to the strength of a
mud wall apart from that. It is not a
reinforcement in the sense that steel is in
concrete.
It is easier and better, when building
“cob” in forms, to scatter the straw thinly
on the mud a$ it is being tamped or
Lamped after it is placed in the form,
1 his causes the straw to he horizontally
m the walls a position in which it will
give the best service. Mundane (M.L.).
_
Lotion
Federal Cabinet’s adoption of the Tariff
Board’s report on the cotton industry
signed cotton’s death-warrant in Central
Queensland.
No wonder the hundreds of Dawson
Valley families who have been looking to
cotton as a sadly needed money-spinner
are sore. The story of cotton in the past
decade has been a chapter of maladminis-
tration and accidents.
Recently statisticians compiled a dismal
report which in effect traces the decline
and fall of cotton in the north. In its
y J e « ( rl?, 33 ' 34) th ? , C T n “ us . tr! :
darned 68,000 acres of land in Central
Ql ;? e y
InfwS Central Queensland nroduced
_ tZV Cent J a[ Queensland produced
h'arS An iAdSv ye ,ha
hTbL maMy response for owning
up the prolific Callide and Dawson Valley
?o Br s'Ss^ d cotrd s
at Rockhampton with practically nothing
In an effort to get the crop back on a
large-scale basis growers applied for a
guaranteed long-term price of 9d. a pound
for raw cotton. The Tariff Board, in spite
of a large body of favorable evidence in
its own report, said “No.” Now Cabinet
has echoed the negative.
It is said that, with the current raw
cotton price above world parity, growers
should be content. For many good
reasons, including such things as stability
and the future, the growers are not.
Meanwhile the industry is slowly but
surely dying.
But why worry? There’s plenty of
cotton in America, and for a few million
dollars we can get all we need without
having to mess about with cotton
“cockies.” — Libra (Q,).
Cotton-growing is not dead; despite
the many undertakers, there are enough
people with vision and national outlook
to keep it going.
That masterpiece of contradictions the
Tariff Board’s report said the decline
was not caused by lack of Government
assistance in the past. The pegging of
raw cotton at 23d. for the critical year
1948, while import parity rose to 32d., is
evidently interpreted as “assistance.” «
If the future of the industry depended
on a combination of * luck and cheap
labor as in the past there would be some
justification for a chary approach, but
production is now on sound economical
ground. Spraying-plants are in use to
control insect pests and mechanical-
pickers take care of the harvest. At
present prices cotton is still one of the
best-paying irrigation crops.
The tragedy’ of the Tariff Board
knockback lies in its psychological
effect. Many prospective growers' regard
it as an instruction to abandon the in-
dustry. With the present high import
price no guarantee is necessary, and the
granting of it would probably involve the
Treasury in no risk for many years.
Encouragement plus modern methods
would boost production, reduce ginning
overhead, save dollars, establish national
self-sufficiency and enable the industry to
stand on its own feet. —C, J. L. (Q.).
The Recall
It is said that Parliament should be
subject to the will of the people; the
introduction of the recall system
would ensure it. There are too many
opportunists in politics ; too many would-
be legislators regard public life only as
a means of livelihood instead of a
responsible and serious business.
That we get the kind of politicians we
deserve is only a half-truth. What is
required is that electors should have
control over sitting members ; a privilege
American people enjoy in several States.
Further, it would be the means of
gauging the feelings of the country to-
wards Government policy.—A. D. (S.A.).
Breeding Cadgers
Once a fortnight, on the average, a
boy or girl with a collecting-tin calls on
me and asks me to donate something
towards the expense of sending the school
football team off to play against a coun-
try team or to buy sports, gear. Genuine
charities find me an easy enough mark,
but I never give a penny to those young-
sters —I always tell them that the old
man next door will give them something.
He does, but it isn’t money; it’s some
very good advice, audible 100 yards away.
“No,” he barks. “Go out and earn
it. I helped to found the Boy Scouts
here and we never went around sponging
and cadging. We taught those boys to
earn the money for fitting up a troop-
room or buying a trek-cart. They cut
hedges, weeded gardens and cut firewood
for old women who didn’t have a man in
the house to do it for them. lobs like
that are going begging right now. Get
out of here and learn to work for what
you want.”
I heartily approve of that stand. Last
year I sent a note to the headmaster of
a near-by agricultural high school, stating
that I had 40 fruit-trees which needed
pruning and offering full adult wages for
the job. Not one boy wanted to do it;
they “had” to play football on Satur-
days or weren’t in need of pocket-money.
The pruning-instructor at the school did
the job—he did need the extra money.
The cure can be put into operation
at once by our schools. A rigid prohibi-
tion, should be put on all forms of
soliciting., donations, and instead a system
should be instituted whereby a list of
Saturday jobs available in the district is
put up on a notice-board, with, the pay
offered, half of which is to go to the
school fund for purchase of sports gear,
etc., and the rest to the boy or girl doing
the work, with prizes for those who earn
the most during the year.
In that way the youngsters would learn
one of life’s most important lessons—
that you have to earn what you get in
this world. It would also stop so many
future citizens from growing up with the
idea that you sponge, cadge or lean on
the Government or somebody else for
what you want. —H, A, Lindsay (S.A.).


board. She staggered me, so big and
grand, with four masts, I met a fireman,
a real Cockney; a western ocean man
he proved to be. I had just half-a-crown
in my pocket. I gave it to him and said,
“Will you show me over the engine-
room?”
“What!” He laughed as he spoke.
“Sonny, for half-a-caser I’ll show you
how they run hell.” Beer was threepence
a pint then.
He showed me everything, telling me
priceless tales of below-decks. He even
showed me the galley and how they fried
chops, then stroked them with red-hot
pokers to give the smell and effect of
grilling.
I went ashore about six o’clock and
almost ran home, with these lines running
through my head:
Stowed deep below her loadline,
Ten feet to twenty-five,
We face the glarin’ dazzle
And make good steam to drive
I went straight to my room, and by
ten o’clock that night I had a good, clear
copy of “Stokin’ ” ready, I* signed it
Quilp N. The A.M.P, boss had told me
I must not use my name as a Writer. All
that for £9O a year. But jobs were scarce.
I got a letter from the pen of J. F.
Archibald. Just this:
Ct-od. Keep on. Take more care with
rhyar,es and metres.
So I set off along the Inky Way.
I think that being shut in an office from
nine till five made me write to get away
from it all. Had I gone as a parser’s
gunner I feel sure I would never have
written a line. Maybe I should have
been an engineer. I’m still as good with
tools as I was when I made clockwork
boats —fitted the works in for my mates
for ss, a time. They provided the boats
and clocks. I made electric bells, a
dynamo, and a Pelton water-wheel to
drive it. I lit two lamps with it.
My first booklet of verse was published
about 1908 — The Red West Road, it was
called. I remember that Dr. Waddell,
who wrote the book reviews for the
Otago “Daily Times,” gave me a good
spin. In the same issue he reviewed G.
K. Chesterton’s first book, and Waddell
made this comment: “It will be interest-
ing to watch these two young men, both
of whom seem destined for literary
fame.” Anyway, he was 50 per cent,
correct.
My next book was Between the Lights;
then came Stokin’. In 1909 I launched
my first shipping book. Steam in the
Southern Pacific, which went over fairly
well.
In 1911 I joined the outside staff of
the A.M.P. in the Dannevirke end of
Hawkes Bay. For a year I raced across-
country on a motor-bike and then, in
1912, I came to Sydney and joined the
“Evening News.” It was like coming
into a new world. It dazzled and con-
fused me, but Bertram Stevens of The
Bulletin helped me. There was a grand
crowd of writers and artists in Sydney
then —when Sydney was a grand old city
with no skyscrapers and no syndication.
A penny a line was nothing much, but a
fellow got so much printed it was possible
to live. Then the A.J.A. came, raised the
rates, and away we went. The senior
reporters got £5 a week.
But it was The Bulletin and its col-
lection of writers, most of them top-
notchers, which drew me —the Star Hotel’s
lounge, almost next-door to the office,
was the usual meeting-place. I had met
Henry Lawson in Bert Stevens’s office,
and often saw him in the Star. Also
Frank Morton, Randolph Bedford, C. A.
Jeffries —his By Rail and Semaphore
fascinated me when it ran in The Bully.
Likewise Bedford’s Exploration in Civili-
zation. Montgomery and McKee Wright
were there; Hugh McCrae, too, and Jack
Barr.
On my first day I went with J. F.
Archibald and Jack Barr to the old
Victoria Cafe nqw the Plaza and
drank wonderful German beer. Pitt-
street, with two tracks of trams, bewil-
dered me. When war broke out in 1914
the scenes outside newspaper offices were
tremendous, for there was no radio, save
in ships.
In 1914 Bert Stevens edited and George
Robertson published my collected verses,
The Three Kings. Nothing more of mine
appeared in covers for some years, during
which I moved about between Sydney
and New Zealand, always on newspaper
or publicity work, and always with the
idea of writing a novel. Three efforts
which failed were: one about the Harbor
Bridge, another about the seven seas, and
one on the Hawkesbury-river steamers
called Captain Jigglybones. The last-
named ran in the “Sunday Nfws” as a
serial.
At the end of the war I was in New
Zealand, and I went down the West Coast
to write a tourist book. My name and
Henry Lawson’s were much confused in
the minds of New Zealanders, and on
this trip I was continually explaining who
I was. Nobody took much notice of the
explanations.
“Well, here’s to your brother,” they
would say, and that was that. The high
note was reached when I drove into
Westport in the mail-car, while girls
holding flowers lined the road. When I
got hold of the day’s paper, I read this:
The most important thing which has
happened to Westport since Dick Seddon
died is the visit of the great Australian
poet Will Lawson.
After that I ceased explaining; just
took everything in my stride. When I
came to Sydney again in 1920 I saw
Henry and told him of the magnificent
hospitality on the Coast.
“Why didn’t you cable for me?” he
said in his soft way, and laughed.
I’d never written a book about the
West Coast till recently— Mary Smith’s
Hotel. All those characters of 30 years
ago are in it. This hotel was still stand-
ing then. It had been run by Mary
Smith for 45 years in Charleston, once
the biggest mining city of the Coast, now
just a village. Mary Smith was a mother
to the miners, almost all of whom, when
there were 20,000 of them, were from
Australia: Americans, Australians, Irish,
Canadians, English and Germans, who had
been in the rushes of the ’fifties in Aus-
tralia, then crossed to New Zealand in
the ’sixties. There were no .Maoris, no
Chinese, in Charlestown. The bulk of
the West Coasters today are from this
fine stock—generous, happy, brave folk
with the best blood-horses in the world.
In the south-west the people are mostly
Irish. I remember once, when prohibi-
tion was carried temporarily, I arrived
at Wally Keller’s hotel in Hokitika from
the Overland, and found them in high
ferment.
“Here, what would you advise, Bill?”
they asked me. “We won’t shut our
pubs, no fear.”
“There is only one thing to do,” I
said. “Blow up the tunnel and join the
Irish Free State.”
They cheered me and chaired me.
And another time, when beer ran out
at Okarito during a shipping strike, they
wired Dick Seddon:
Okarito starving. Send help.
And Dick sent a steamer full of beer.
He knew his men. Great men, the West
Coasters as I knew them. And now, after
all these years, something has made me
write a book about them. I hope they’ll
read it. It is my twentieth novel, of
which total thirteen have been published.
Inspiration for earlier books came to
me on another West Coast —the West
Coast of New South Wales. In 1923 I
was a roving reporter along the western
rivers and met one Billy Williamson,
head of Cobb and Co, out there in its
heyday. Also on that visit I met
Captain Brown of the steamer Nile, one
of a famous river family. Then was born
the twin idea of two of my best books,
When Cobb and Co. Was King and
Old Man Murray. Before then I did
The Laughing Buccaneer, all about Bully
Hayes. This was written as a scenario
in the slump, the idea being to get quick
money. But Cinesound said it would cost
too much. Another book, which is little
known, I fear, was Bound for Callao. To
get material for that, when I was a ship-
ping reporter I questioned all kinds of
men. It only had a fair sale in a cheap
edition.
The whole Pacific and Southern Ocean,
as well as Australian romantic history,
inspired me to write books. The first
came out in 1934, and they’ve been ap-
pearing spasmodically ever since. But
the tide runs the wrong way for Aus-
tralians to make money from books.
Now, with 73 years looking rosy over
the horizon, I often wonder why I be-
came a writer. Far better a clerk on
superannuation, or an engineer, or a
ship’s purser. Only in those games old
men are barred. In the writing game
you can write till you drop. But in
Australia you have to be game to be a
writer. In fact, it’s a game for the game.
And if I had stayed a clerk I would never
have seen what I have seen, met whom
I have met or done what I have done.
WILL LAWSON.
Reviewed Briefly.
Marcus Clarke’s For the Term of His
Natural Life has been reprinted by Hall-
craft Publishing Pty., Ltd., 262 Chapel-
street, Prahran, Victoria. In binding it is
quite a creditable edition ; type and paper,
thou|h not the finest, are readable. It
is, of course, one of those basic books
of our literature which should never be
allowed to go out of print.
* * * ♦
101 Amusements for All: Charles F.
Bishop (Faber). Puzzles and problems
and riddles. It seems an odd publica-
tion for the august house of Faber, which
publishes Eliot and Auden ; but then, on
second not altogether inappro-
priate.
* * * *
Home Ground: Douglas Goldring
(Macdonald). Strolling around Dorset,
Shakspeare’s Warwickshire and elsewhere,
eating at inns, meeting the locals and
ruminating on the past. The sort of
book the English always do well, partly
because H. V. Morton set a happy pat-
tern, partly because every stone you tread
on is alive with history.
* * * ♦
Trout and How to Catch Them : Pat
Castle (Oliver and Boyd, Ltd., Edinburgh).
This little book was first published in
1920 and has since been reprinted eight
times, which suggests that Mr. Castle has
an unfailing lure for anglers. For trout
he is capable of using anything from a
maggot to a minnow and is therefore to
be read only in deadly secrecy by dry-
fly purists. On the fly as well as on his
less respectable baits the beginner will
find him useful, and the expert will pick
up a tip or two.
* * * *
Children of Today and Tomorrow:
Ethel Dukes and Margaret Hay (Allen
and Unwin). A general discussion of
the problems of children today and, more
importantly, the troubles of harassed
parents: dealing with the dull child, the
gifted child, the hypersensitive child, the
inward-turned child and, in short, the
child turned inside-out. The style strikes
the happy medium between the scientific
and the chatty, and the book has the
backing of the British Social Hygiene
Council,
* * * *
Mediterranean Background: Bernard
Newman (Hale). A mixture of guide-
book information and personal travel-
notes, dealing with the Mediterranean
countries and their political and inter-
national problems. It is Mr. Newman’s
48th book; and, if he makes them in a
machine, at least it runs along smoothly
and usefully.
* * * *
The Royal Air Force in the World War,
Vol. III.: Captain Norman Macmillan
(Harrap) Captain Macmillan has one
more volume to go before his authorita-
tive survey is completed. The present
volume deals with North and East Africa,
the Mediterranean, Italy and the Balkans.
* * * *
Fruits of the Earth, in one volume with
Later Fruits, is a recent publication in the
standard edition of Andre Gide’s novels
from Seeker and Warburg. This is the
experimental “novel?” seeming to derive
from the prose-poems of Baudelaire,
which, after being ignored for some years,
gradually made a reputation for its author
by scandalising the bourgeoisie and in-
triguing the intellectuals.
* ♦ * *
The King and the Corpse: Max
Murray (Michael Joseph). An amusing
extravaganza of the murder of an inter-
national crook and blackmailer at Monte
Carlo, A young king in exile and his
entourage are travelling up and down the
Riviera in their yacht,, charging several
hundred pounds to allow themselves to be
seen at night-clubs and restaurants. The
king’s publicity-agent and fixer has to
solve the mystery when his beloved, the
daughter of an expatriate Englishman,
gets involved in it; and there is a further
problem: whether his girl will be un-
grateful enough to throw him over for
the king. As mystery, farce or satire this
is the best detective novel to come our
way for a long while, though it breaks-
one of the main rules of the craft: that
the criminal must come under suspicion,
and seem to be cleared, before he is
finally denounced.
* ♦ * *
Spirits Rebellious: Kahlil Gibran
(Heinemann). According to the blurb,
Gibran is a Lebanese highly esteemed by
millions of Arabic readers for his poetry
and stories. Of these' four stories two
attack loveless marriages, and two attack
injustice in general; and if the injustice is
piled on with a trowel, that gives all the'
more scope for the author’s flowery and
rhetorical condemnation of it. The best
story, said to be true, is of the girl who
killed her former lover and herself on
her bridal night.
* * * * •
Macaulay’s History of England, Chap-
ters I-IV, has been added to Harrap’s
Holborn Library.
* * * *
The English Middle Classes: Roy
Lewis and Angus Maude. The very rich
and very blue-blooded being a lost cause
and, anyhow, a minute minority, it is
the middle-classes, of course, who are the
chief source of plunder for all Socialist
Governments. The idea is: you take all
their money from them by taxation and
all their enterprise by restrictions, then you
start your own State enterprises, pay your-
self out of taxation, and so climb into
the middle-classes yourself. Mr. Lewis
and Mr. Maude examine this process with
pained surprise, and with a wealth of
precise infonnation.
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 44
Across.
I—Grain enclosure is what’s west
of Plymouth and beaten at York-
town. (10)
6 —Sandy tax? (4)
9—Drink articles from Britain and
France. (3)
11—When the Duchess of Gloucester
sits on a hot brick? (5, 7)
13— Crazy one backed him whose
downfall was a pippin! (4)
14— A goat attacking the golfer’s
objective? (6, 4)
16— German city predominant in
Tennyson’s moan of doves in
immemorial elms. (3)
17— Primate has to see him criticise
the Dutch sea. (10)
21— The gluttony of Absalom’s sister
near Launceston. (5, 5)
22 Street of regret. (3)
24—Force forward 50 fish talking
balderdash. (10)
27—The responsibility is on the
United States. (4)
29 Part of a horse will cause hoarse-
ness. (5)
30 — Dad and I blushing when
coupled. (6)
32 Dry melody. (3)
33 Observe the coppers origin. (4)
34 Talks comprise Diana’s meals. (10)
(CRYPTIC TYPE.)
Down.
1— matters concerning auto-
mobiles and dead bodies. (8)
2 Enclose the State before the
fifties of an Australian fast.
bowler. (4)
3 He said “Open Sesame.” (3)
4 Such talking makes the' cur
tingle. (9)
5 Shows where he stands in rela-
tion to sheet. (5)
7 Looking after the bigshots can
reduce the number with a Vic-
torian slow bowler’s sister before
marriage. (12)
8 — Edward of Tasmania got the
savor. (6)
10 —Nothing managed this African
city. (4)
12—Australian explorer to prohibit it
with a singer. (4, 8)
15 —Part of a play on a court’s
minutes. (4)
18 — Pop managed a duck before I
get a century with a sufferer from
monomania. (9)
19 — Why Christmas is a time when
heverybody hexpects to go to
’eaven. (4)
20 — Writes Idriess’s financial allow-
ances for past services. (8)
23 —The mountain is removed from
Benedict’s regulations. (6)
25 Spot. (4)
26 Cheek the muddled type of
Italian painter. (5)
28 —Republic is by you. (4)
31—Spanish river. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 43.


■i-'v
/
cfflec/fmMcf •
,ojadu> ,-^fpe
The A.W.A. monogram on any instrument is a mark of
quality and scientific craftsmanship. It is the symbol of the
Radio Age, representing the knowledge gained from research
and engineering over more them 35 years.
Behind all A.W.A. products and services are the A.W.A.
laboratories, which have advanced radio in the home, on the
. • . . ■■
highways, at sea, and in the air. As one of Australia’s key
industrial organisations, A.W.A. recognises the value of
scientific research and its important role in peace and security.
Investigations now in progress include the use of frequency
modulation for telephone communication with moving
vehicles, as well as for broadcasting, development of special
transmitters and receivers to improve radio-telephone services
between Australia and overseas countries, television and
work on a number of new radio aids for navigation.
Over 1000 ships of the Merchant Navy are equipped with
A.W.A. wireless apparatus.
The progress made by commercial aviation and the enormous
mileages covered are due in a large measure to the develop-
ment of wireless and its application to aerial navigation and
communication.
A.W.A. maintains in a serviceable condition all radio equip-
ment in Australian commercial aircraft and overseas aircraft
operating to Australia. Over 150 aircraft for 20 different
companies are serviced by A.W.A. This has necessitated the
establishment of radio-servicing depots at all principal
aerodromes.
BROADCASTING TRANSMITTING STATIONS
WIRELESS TELEGRAPH AND TELEPHONE STATIONS
AERONAUTICAL RADIO EQUIPMENT
MARINE WIRELESS
RADIOLA BROADCAST RECEIVERS
SOUND AMPLIFYING SYSTEMS
p-
*
Ship s Wireless Station
■ ■
60,000-watt Broadcast Transmitter
§4'' ut a «s> #4**
■MI
■
■
I
■■
m
mm
■f- :
'
■
m
mm
Radiola Assembly at Works
ill
m
wff.
■
: >
H
m
■H
n
;
SH%
if':
1
Studio Control
Apparatus
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (Australasia) LTD.
Australia’s National Wireless Organisation
47 YORK ST., SYDNEY 167 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE
Also at WELLINGTON, N.Z., and AUSTRALIA HOUSE, LONDON
