

The Bulletin
“The Bullrfin,” Vol. 71—No. 3696
Wednesday, .December 13, 1950
CHRISTMAS NUMBER
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
LjOR more than seven hundred years
Lambeth Palace, a magnificent Tudor
building on the south bank of the
Thames, near Lambeth Bridge, has been
the London residence of the Archbishop
of Canterbury.
In the eleventh century Lambeth was
a Royal manor, and at the time of the
Domesday Book survey it was owned by
Goda, the wife of the Earl of Boulogne.
The present palace was begun by Arch-
bishop Langton (1207-29), and it incor-
porates many later additions. Here, until
the Second World War, was one of the
most beautiful thirteenth-century chapels
in London, containing a great deal of
rich carving. It was in this chapel that
the second trial of John Wycliffe took
place in 1378. During the air raids of
1941, however, when ten high-explosive
bombs and a number of incendiary and
flying-bombs fell on the premises or in
the vicinity, the Palace was badly
damaged. The chapel fared worse than
other parts of the building, for only its
walls now remain. The crypt beneath the
floor of the chapel was used as an air-
raid shelter; it dates from about 1200,
and is the oldest part of the Palace.
Archbishop Cranmer is commemorated
by a tower which bears his name, in
which he is reputed to have written much
of the Prayer Book.
The Lollards’ Tower, built in 1434-45,
derives its name from the belief that the
Lollards, followers of Wycliffe, were im-
prisoned in it. The windows are heavily
barred and the massive walls, which hold
hooks and rings, still have scratched on
them the names of the captives. While
held as a prisoner in this tower Richard
Lovelace is believed to have written his
famous lines to Althea, “Stone walls do
not a prison make.”
One of the magnificent rooms in the
Palace is the Great Hall, 70 feet in height
and 93 feet long, rebuilt as the dining
room by Archbishop Juxon at the
Restoration. Its noble hammer-beam
roof rivals that of Westminster Hall in
the Houses of Parliament. Since 1829
the Great Hall has housed the rare and
valuable library founded by the will of
Archbishop Bancroft, who died in 1610.
This library contains 44,000 books and
1300 volumes of manuscript, many of
which were damaged during the war.
One of the library treasures is a ninth-
century illuminated copy of the Gospels
and a fifteenth century Koran which
belonged to the Sultan of Mysore.
In the churchyard near the Palace is
the tomb of the famous Captain (later
Admiral) William Bligh, of the Bounty,
who died in 1817,
BLIGH OF THE BOUNTY SLEEPS IN THE SHADE OF LAMBETH PALACE
EXTRA DRY SOLERO
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
B. SEPPELT & ON S LTD.
(IWIAIPE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN ULL ALSO AT 18 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C.4


HonAvritinsi
Write now for Free Illustrated HAND-
WRUING PROSPECTUS explaining
fully Stott s Muscular-Movement System
of teaching Handwriting.
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
XOO Russell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
-C77- HERE AND MAIlr-
To STOTT’S: Please send me, free
without obligation, your
Writing Prospectus
My jS T ar..' .V.;
and
md-
ACC.
(S.B.fo'l) ...
The Red Pane
FEUDS IN ARABY.
An autobiography, written in Arabic
by a monoglot monarch with the primary
object of instructing his people in their
ancestral glory and to explain his actions
and those of his forebears, might be ex-
pected to make heavy reading in English
translation. The Memoirs of King
Abdullah of Transjordan (Cape), how-
ever, is quite a readable volume.
How far this is due to the translator,
who naively states that his translation
“has been made to suit the English
general reader,” is rather difficult to sur-
mise without reference to the original
text. All “ renderings into English” from
Arabic are suspect, and a single misplaced
alif may fundamentally alter the sense in
such a way as to mislead the expert, Arab
writers, in general, are liable to take
advantage of this fact when it suits them,
and some of them are as adept in
ambiguity as were the Delphians.
There can be no doubt, however, of
the value and authenticity of the very
thorough annotation by Philip Graves,
who does not hesitate to correct the
author when he considers it necessary.
Abdullah ibn Al-Husain has probably a
sounder claim to kingship, both by
descent and upbringing, than any of the
Arab tribal chieftains who have been
elevated to that rank through the demands
of world-policy and the power of inter-
national oil-politics. Moreover, he is
beyond question brave, clever and
courteous, but the panegyric introduction
by Brigadier Broadhurst, in a style which
suggests that it is intended for easy trans-
lation into Arabic, defeats its own ends.
As a corrective, the oppositely-biased
Lord of Arabia by H. C. Armstrong
should be consulted.
Any history of the House of Husain is
bound to include many references to the
House of Sa’ud, and it is to the author’s
credit (or to that of his translator) that
the criticisms of his lifelong antagonist,
Abdul Aziz ibn Sa’ud, are remarkable in
their restraint. Incidentally, later events
have shown that both men were sorely
misjudged in The Seven Pillars of
Wisdom.
The book opens with an account of
Abdullah’s early years, entertaining in its
simplicity, and of his first contacts with
the outside world “where we saw some-
thing quite new and strange to us, namely,
Christian women unveiled.” This is fol-
lowed by an equally interesting account
of early 20th-century life in what was
then Constantinople.
The next chapters deal with the Hejaz,
with Mecca and its intrigues and with
the relations between Arabs and Turks,
then more intrigue, tribal warfare in the
Hejaz and World War I.
Broadhurst, in the introduction, states
that Abdullah’s affection for the English
is very real. It may be, as far as any
Arab is capable of feeling affection for
any non-Arab race, all of whom he
regards as inferior beings. The follow-
ing letter from King Husain (Abdullah’s
father) to the Sultan is quoted in full as
indicating a typical attitude, doubtless
shared by Abdullah, as he was consulted
before it was written; — 1
Your Majesty appreciates that the end
of the Balkan War left us weak and ill-
prepared for hostilities. It would be
extremely dangerous to enter this war on
the side of Germany. We depend on
Germany for the greater part of our arms
and ammunition. The Ottoman arms-
factories are not sufficient to provide our
armies with essential supplies, nor are they
in a position to replace losses of guns or
equipment. Besides, the southern portions
of the Empire, Basra, Yemen and the
Hejaz, are exposed to attack from hostile
navies. The Government cannot rely on
the inhabitants of these outlying provinces
to defend themselves, as they are neither
organised nor armed. I therefore entreat
your Majesty in the name of God not to
enter the war on the side of Germany, as
this would be either ignorance or high
treason. —Husain.
The chapters dealing with Arabian
operations during World War I need not
be quoted, as they represent one narrow
point of view of the many dealt with in
a multitude of largely conflicting
accounts, but Abdullah’s appraisals of the
several British officials with whom he had
contact are of interest. His tribute to
Winston Churchill is, as it should be in
pure gratitude, warm, and his descrip-
tions of Lord Plumer as “a noble, frank
and distinguished man” and of Lord Gort
as a great soldier and leader” will be
endorsed by any servicemen who knew
them.
astonishing, however, that “General
Glubb Pasha” receives such scant notice,
although the little is favorable. Glubb,
with his superb Arab Legion long after
the end of World War I, held the respect
f £ar of the surrounding rulers, kept
the peace in Transjordan and was the
major factor in limiting Ibn Sa’ud’s
designs on Akaba to written and verbal
notes of protest.
What exactly Abdullah wishes to con-
vey when he says that Philby’s “loyalty
to King Abdul-Aziz ibn Sa’ud seemed
even greater than his loyalty to his own
king and country” may—or may not—
be clear in the original Arabic.
The unconscious sidelights which the
Memoirs throw on the Arab mentality
are amusing in their artlessness; a few
examples will suffice: —
, (P- 146): I then asked somebody to cut
the telegraph-wires, and arrange to stop
any messenger travelling to Mecca, if need
be by killing him. [And, immediately below,
m reply to a note from the Vaii] I have
no information about the telegraph-wires.
(P. 147, with reference to the recruiting
oi Arab tribes): I asked them to join me
a week later in order to receive arms and
register their names on the payroll. The
response to these letters was excellent, and
our numbers rose every day,
(P. 163): These letters would inform the
tribes of the fall of Hujf, whether or not
it had taken place by then, and order them
to rally to the two Amirs at Yanbo and
Rabegh.
(P. 167) : I sent messages to these camel-
men advising them to join the revolt before
they were destroyed. They waited to get
their pay from General Ahmed and, leaving
their arms where they were, they joined
us as troopers, which was very commend-
able. ,
The account of the squabbles over the
Caliphate proves the wisdom of Mustapha
Kemal in abolishing that office.
Whether the uncontrolled squeezing of
the pilgrims to Mecca by Husain was
preferable to their regularised exploita-
tion by Ibn Sa’ud is a matter for debate.
Under the latter regime, at least, they
know, more or less, what the pilgrimage
will cost them. So, also, it is improbable
that- the leasing by Ibn Sa’ud of a barren,
15-mite-wide strip of the Hejaz coast
to oil and mining interests can have much
effect on “the ancient holiness of the
mosques at Medina and Mecca.”
White recommending this volume for
perusal, the reviewer advises the reader to
depend on the excellent notes of Philip
Graves for his history, and, particularly
with reference to the Abdullah-Ibn Sa’ud
feud, to consult other authorities.
L. O.
Patrick Hore-Ruthven.
Kindliest and least obtrusive of our
Governors and Governors-General, the
Gowries unavoidably lived behind the
veil of majesty; and such as may have
wondered what they were like at home
will be interested to know that they
formed a trio. The Three Bears ; that two
of them were known corporately to the
third as The Governing Ones, and
separately as My Gubernatorial Progeni-
tor and The Governess: these things
appear in Joy of Youth, Letters of
Patrick Hore-Ruthven, edited by Ethel
Anderson (Peter Davies).
For half his life Patrick Hore-Ruthven
was separated from his parents by gover-
norships: thus the letters that joined
them form something of a commentary
on British education in the 1920’s and
1930’s; Hawtrey’s, Eton and Cambridge ;
the prowess of the son in England, the
anxieties of the parents in Australia.
From its earliest stages it was a wide edu-
cation ; the boy is shown returning from
his last term at Hawtrey’s: —
It was on a sunny morning in July, 1926,
that Pat, now 13, put his top-hat in its
symmetrical leather case and crushed beside
it his straw hat and school-cap. With his
grey flannels, Eton clothes, football-jerseys,
swimming-suit, riding-breeches, and the
rough tweeds he wore shooting and fishing,
tightly compressed into two suitcases;
carrying (by instalments) his bat, boxing-
gloves, fishing-rod, priest, gaff, landing-net,
tennis-racquet, golf-clubs, rifle; all of
which sporting implements he had learnt
to handle; with a box of books
mathematics, geometry, history, geography,
engineering, nature-study, French, Latin,
English, chemistry, literature and Scrip-
ture ...".
But it would be hard to say where edu-
cation left off and holidays began, that
were, especially in his parents’ absence, a
round of great English houses, hunting,
fishing, shooting, amateur jockeying,
yachting at Cowes, sojourns in France
and Italy; all, in their kind, and for this
kind, as much education as the essnv
written at the age of eight or nine, o
sarcasm : —
Some people who are neither physically
or morally courageous are gifted with a
sharpness of tongue called sarcasm. It is
one of nature’s ways of protecting her
less well equipped children, though it may
be bestowed as a minor faculty on stronger
people, but it is usually the weaklings that
Possess it in any large degree....
The master’s hand can be felt behinc
the pupil s; and we can see how earl’
and at every opportunity, education
being used not merely to teach but t
form character”—again, when he
almost through Cambridge, his mother
returning to Australia after visiting hin-
m England, presents the results of he
examination: “A short summary of Pat
by a very candid critic who gave him a
his sins”; —
• think your manner with servants
is better, but still wants remembering about
—you, being poor, cannot give them much,
but by a smile and a little crack you can
do far more than a ten-bob thrust into the
hand; just show appreciation.... I thought
your road manners not frightfully good-—
too ordering, and demanding the way; too
short and snappy, like a cross “old maid.”
It’s extraordinary what one gains by being
courteous —in fact, “being a gent.,” and
not a blusterer or a bounder.... Daddy is
very confident about you and says, “Pat
won’t be satisfied with a narrow life for
long, but naturally he must ‘train on’ by
degrees.”
Thus carefully supervised, thus
auspiciously, life opened for this son o;
a Governor-General; a subalternship in
the Rifle Brigade at Malta ; a year in
India ; marriage in the Henry VII chape
of Westminster Abbey; service anc
poetry-writing in Palestine, where the
views “take you by the throat” ; a re-
view of Australian Light Horse at
Inyerell broken into by a General
announcing to the Governor-General:
“You are a grandfather, Sir—and it’s a
boy” ; the Mayor of Inverell comment-
ing upon the event: “Glory be to God,
the bhoy was borrn in auld Ireland” ;
and on December 20, 1942, Captain
Patrick Hore-Ruthven, leading a com-
mando party of five that was mining
roads and destroying vehicles along the
Tripoli road, was shot in the shoulder by
an Italian sentry, and, unable to get
away, was mown down by heavy fire from
the aroused Italians.
Mrs. Anderson has made a fine, simple
book of it, retiring in proper mourning
the wit and almost voluptuous beauty of
line which put her prose, as readers of
her short stories in The Bulletin will
have observed, among the best in the
world today.
Pacific Mariners.
Mention of a novel by James A.
Michener recalls his 1948 Pulitzer Prize
winner, Tales of the South Pacific, with
its special interest to Australians in it
picture of that part of the United State
Navy which saved us from becoming
Japanese colony, and in passages such a
the one where Australia is called “th
crossroads of the world” in which
Michener considers us with kindly specu
lation ; with the rather disquieting tail
piece that our role will be plain in “the
next war.”
Michener was out here during the war
as a United States naval officer, and saw
most of the places in the Pacific he de
scribes with colloquial and emotiona
vividness in his book ; and there is, in
fact, something distantly reminiscent oj
Kipling’s Plain Tales From the Hills in
Tales of the Pacific —taking into con-
sideration the difference in milieu anc
the fact that Michener, like a gooc
modern American, is not dismayed by
Kipling’s favorite taboo, sex.
It has been the fashion for many years
to deny Kipling art on the score of what
may be called his rhetorical sentiment
and nothing could be further from the
truth. In its disarmingly casual dress, and
in both its good and bad art, Michener’s
story about the American flier shot down
in the sea within sight of the Japanese-
held shore, and rescued at an enormous
cost (reckoned in petrol, flying-time and
planes engaged), is pure Kipling. And,
in such stories as “The Cave”—the story
of a lone Englishman operating with
a wireless-set behind the Japanese line,
and tljp influence he exerts on the
imaginations of men he has never seen—
there is a breath of Conrad. But, over
and above everything, the pictures of
American sailors are crisp, vivid and
satisfying, although not, perhaps, of great
depth.
The Americans —during the war there
was Marcus Goodrich’s Delilah, a fine
novel about a destroyer—seem to like
reading about their Navy; and a new
study of U.S. sailors in Pacific waters
during World War II is Mister Roberts
by Thomas Heggen. Mister Roberts is an
entirely different sort of book from Tales
of the South Pacific. It shows a ship that
never goes into action, and men who,
with the exception of the author’s prin-
cipal character. Lieutenant Roberts
never want to, particularly, being too
busy with private wars with the captain
gambling and grog. There is talk oj
filming it.
It is an extraordinarily funny book,
the humor bordering on farce, and its
popularity doubtless arises from the
frank fatigue-dress view of the Navy; as
a humorous study of any regimented
body of bored men it is superb. But its
value as comedy is decreased by the off-
stage death in battle of the principal
character, who has finally succeeded in
being transferred to another ship. It was
rather as though the author, at the last
moment, wished to have it both ways—
humor and tragedy—and killed Roberts
off as a sort of patriotic gesture. Roberts,
too, constantly shown as a leader of men,
is not sufficiently strong a character for
the position he is given. It is not suf-
ficient for the author to say a character
is magnetic” ; some of that magnetism
must be communicated to the reader.
Some of the characters—such as the
captain—recall “MacneU’s” stories about
toe Australian Navy published in The
Bulletin.
J.R
"The Golden Ass."
The officials of the Commonwealth
Customs Department recently brought
The Golden Ass of Apuleius into the
news by holding up shipments of the
new Penguin Classics translation wit
intent to ban it ; fortunately the ban wa
not imposed. The Penguin translatio
by Robert Graves is quite readable, bui;
it is hardly an improvement on th
standard English version made by Wil-
liam Adiington in 1566. This was re
published in a charming little edition i
the Abbey Classics in 1922. The transla
tion is contemporaneous with that of th
authorised version: hence its beauty o
diction.
Apuleius was a native of a Roman
colony in Morocco. He was a wealthy
young man who was educated at Carth
age. Though he could, and did, write
good Latin, this work is purposely inter
spersed with slang, patois and neolog
isms, which has made it very difficult to
translate with accuracy. Adiington wa
something of a purist, and, as that gooc
scholar Charles Whibley has pointed out
'‘though he was unable entirely to purge
his diction of all color and variety, his
manner was much better suited to the
rendering of Apuleius than the prose o :
today, which has passed through the sieve
of the eighteenth century.”
Dating from the second century, The
Golden Ass is probably the earliest
romantic novel. Interpolated is the story
of Cupid and Psyche, which has no rele-
vance to the main theme. This practice
has been used often in the modern
picaresque novel, as seen in Pickwick
Papers and in many of Fielding’s and
Smollett’s novels.
One can imagine how Sir Thomas
Urquhart, the inimitable translator of
Rabelais, would have revelled in the op-
portunity for embellishing all the slang
and catchwords with which in its original
Latin it is said to abound.
Adiington, on the other hand, con-
denses and often gives the sense of the
passage without translating every redun-
dancy and extravagance. His knowledge
of Latin was not profound, and he also
apparently had recourse to a French
translation as well, as is evidenced by a
similarity of error in both. He does not
claim (in his preface) to strict accuracy
or to have rendered it into English word
for word. Perhaps this is what has
prompted others to attempt to improve
upon him—rather like painting the lily,
it seems to me.
I have a copy of a literal translation
by one F. D. Byrne, of Dublin, 1904,
whose English style is so revolting that I
grudge it shelf-room. Here is the passage
where Lucius meets that most com-
plaisant of serving-maids, Fotis;—-
Byrne; —
My dear Fotis, who was preparing tripe
cut up small in a pot, to concoct a luscious
feed: and indeed I already divined through
the medium of my nose that it was a most
delicious haggis. She herself was neatly
clad in a linen tunic, and girt up nicely,
pretty high, just under the very breasts,
with a bright-red bosom-band, and she
was turning the vessel which held the food
round in a circle between her little pink
palms; and as she kept shaking it up,
while she twisted it round and round, she
gave her body a soft motion of the most
provocative nature, and swayed most
becomingly to and fro, while her loins
slowly quivered and her lithe waist moved
in gentle convulsions.
Literal, perhaps, but what doggerel!
Graves (the Penguin edition) does it a
little better: —
I found nobody at home but my charm-
ing Fotis, who was preparing pork rissoles
(Continued on inside back cover.,)


TRUTH
IN ADVERTISING"
Anthony Horderns’
ijfm
r\
Siif,
='* ;
r-
m
m
m
i
' i
Encore:
Cool Summer Casuals
Here they are again . . . the casuals that will make walking a joy this
Summer! It’s not often you see such modern smartness combined with
such flexible ease and comfort.
Below, Left: “Julius Marlow” Slip-on Casuals with roomy toes and snug-
fitting heels. In Tan Calf or Brown Suede, with leather soles and non-jarring
heel cushions. Priced at 51/6.
Below, Right: “Julius Marlow” Moccasin Derbys with smart wall toes.
Available in leather or non-slip rubber soles and heels. Sizes 5 to 12. 51/6.
Left:
“Julius Marlow” Brogues with stout
leather soles in rich Tan Calf or
Black Box Calf. An attractive
shoe made to last. Price, 51/6.
Here’s the shoe to give you comfort this
Summer . . . it’s the smart, flexible “Packard” Brogue,
which features extra stout soles, wide welts and
strongly sewn heel seats. This shoe is available in
Tan or Brown Calf, Black Box Calf or Brown
Suede. Priced at 68/6. Also available in imported
Scotch Zebu. Priced at 92/-. In sizes 5 to 14.
Above:
“Packard” No-cap Derby in Tan Calf, Black Calf
or Brown Suede. Priced at 57/-. Also available
in soft Black Glace Kid, priced at 62/6, or Tan
Elk with rubber soles and heels. 5 to 14. 57/-.
- ■ ■
HI
mm
HU
te nm)
■■■ ■ I ■
WHHKKKKm
fliS
■•■.■ ■.. ■XvVxVv:-:-:,. ■:•
■
|&||& >:■■ :':-, x>. jg ‘:|■ - '■;
m
“Packard” Moccasin Derby in Tan Calf with
leather or rubber soles and heels, or Brown Suede
with leather soles and heels, 62/-. Tan Elk with
screw-in spikes for golf, 93/-. Sizes 5 to 12.
MEN’S SHOES —GROUND FLOOR, GEORGE STREET. BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY. M 2401. WE PAY FREIGHT


xew,
• YJ •
Sofia
c
!)
Suitings Guaranteed
Made from
pure Australian
Virgin Wool.
YARRA FAILS LTD.
ABBOTSFORD, N. 9, VICTORIA, AUSTRALIA.


The Bulletin
Vol. 71—No. 3696
Wednesday, December 13, 1950
p6 A c£ T 0 /sjll- r,EN
gOOO^ I*- 1 *-
CHRISTMAS, 1950.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521 ; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
THE LOTUS-EATERS.
In a survey of Australian economic con-
ditions, the United Kingdom’s Trade
Commissioner in Australia concludes
some mild comments with these words:
Nothing is of more significance for
Australia today than that she should
cherish (or would recapture be the truer
word?) and foster the ardor and virility
of a young country. Fired and energised
by these vital qualities she may become,
sooner than we think, one of the great
countries of the world, enjoying security
and prosperity within her borders and
making a unique and potent contribution
to the welfare of mankind.
This passage delivers the best possible
text for self-searching by the Australian
people as they prepare for their celebra-
tions of 50 years of aspiration and
progress as a federated nation. The end
of this half-century coincides with a
challenge to our race, and not least to its
outposts in this Commonwealth, which
the Prime Minister describes as
“extremely grave and more real than at
any time since the war.”
Some manifestations of “ardor and
virility” are present, sure enough. The
young motor-cyclists who hurl themselves
(and others) to violent death on the roads
every weekend are as little deterred by
casualty statistics as any Australian
soldier of the past in the heat of battle
on a hard-fought field. There is a spirit
to be detected in them of something more
than recklessness; they are the stuff that
make Australian air pilots some of the
best in the world. Whatever else may be
said of them, their virility is unques-
tionable. Or those long, clean-limbed,
sun-tanned figures of the surf-beaches,
especially the corps of lifesavers. No
ardor or virility? Why, they are very
Olympians. Australian prowess in manly
sport is to draw the international
Olympic Games hither, far out of the
track of outside competitors—a con-
sideration which has kept the arena till
now in populous countries of the world.
Will Australian manhood reply to a
challenge? Let the examples, immediately
to hand, of the year-long fight against
seemingly invincible floods throughout
all central eastern Australia bear witness.
These answers may be made, and yet
they are clearly not sufficient. To the
implied criticism above-quoted the Aus-
tralian may reply that the home British
people, too, require to be “fired and
energised by these vital qualities” afresh,
unless indeed the home British are to
escape on the grounds that they are no
longer of “a young country,” that they
are being drained of their young people
to supply the needs of the unpopulated
Dominions, that the hope of “recaptur-
ing” the virility of the British race is here
rather than there.
But this line of argument is off the
bteam. We can all understand what this
observer among us means, whether we
admit it or not. Among a slowly—
terribly slowly—increasing minority of
Australians there are felt serious fore-
bodings at the derisory response to the
recruiting appeal, and at the opposition
to universal military training when the
powerful friends upon whom this country
relies for protection are arming at top-
speed for defence against a new world-
aggressor. Not in past days would an
Australian battalion have been left un-
assured of home reinforcements while
fighting a desperate rearguard action
against a horde of Chinese, allies of —or
even identical with—those Soviet armies
which not long ago one of the local “Aus-
tralian” Communists said would be wel-
comed if invading Australia “in pursuit
of aggressors.” “Aggressors” today for
these people is a term including Aus-
tralians among all other English-speaking
peoples. Nor is the fate of Korea the
issue being decided. By the time the
golden jubilee of the Australian Com-
monwealth is being celebrated, a new
upstart swarm of Russian proteges in
Indonesia are likely to invade New
Guinea and Timor, asserting precisely the
same right as the Chinese in Korea to
test by force of arms whether we are
virile enough to deny them anything they
demand.
The truth is that these Asiatic peoples,
being encouraged from Moscow to go
out with fire and sword in the cause of
Communist domination of the world, are
convinced that the British peoples have
gone soft, and they are bent upon test-
ing how far that weakness has developed.
No protestations the British people
may make these days can disguise
that their Empire of 50 years ago, when
we were all virile enough—the era we are
preparing to celebrate —has retreated
a long way from its outer marches. We
seek today but one thing in the world:
peace. Yet there is no conceivably
greater provocative of war in every con-
tinent and ocean than a signal that the
British are pulling out.
The question for Australian electors
and their leaders is; Are all the ardor and
virility of this Commonwealth to be spent
on the quest of easy-living, “social
security,” the Welfare State and some
alleged “human rights” which makes
these things our due? There can be no
privileges under the “Welfare State”
without duties first performed, as the
Archbishop of Canterbury lately told us ;
and even so, no security can be assured,
for after all a Welfare State, unless a
welfare world keeps step with it, becomes
an object for assault by aggressors. As
for “human rights,” what authority any-
where can guarantee them, or ever has
done?
The past 50 years should have taught
the Australian people that lotus-eating
and a White Australia are incompatible,
and that they can give themselves up to
the opiate of “social security,” in reliance
upon vote-catching politicians at home
and upon the mountebankery called
U.N.O. abroad, only at their now
imminent peril. How much the British
and Australian Governments rely upon
the suppression of German and Japanese
trade competition for maintenance of
their Welfare States has never been
seriously examined. We shall not in-
definitely be embarrassed by fantastically
high wool prices or get away with pre-
tences of alarm about inflation while
politicians vie with each other to shovel
out free pensions, while it is deemed
shameful to question the boosting of the
basic-wage by £1 a week at one hit, and
while Broken Hill citizens can light their
pipes with pound-notes distributed in
handfuls as a lead-bonus. These inanities
persist to handicap our national develop-
ment in every direction. Although, for
instance, we can make with ample raw
materials the cheapest steel in the world
even today, we haven’t the energy—or
the political nous —to turn out enough
of it for our own needs. So we have to
go without houses.
As for any conception of national
service to match that of “the men whose
sons we are,” why only a short time ago,
with wool and wheat prices booming, a
committee of the old-timers tried to raise
a few thousand pounds for a worthy
memorial to the Australian Light Horse,
a corps renowned among fighting men all
over the world. They could not collect
more than enough for a bronze plaque.
If any bookmaker in the land gave as
much as sixpence to it the event went
unrecorded.
Fifty years ago, before the politicians’
alibi of U.N.O. was invented, a virile
British Empire wanted peace no less than
we do now and took virile steps to get
it. Peace has never been so well kept in
Asia as during the Anglo-Japanese
Alliance. Its accompaniment in Aus-
tralia was all-party acceptance of com-
pulsory military training as a citizen’s
natural duty.
Australia's Danger.
Newspapers in Washington reported
towards the weekend that President
Truman and Mr. Attlee had agreed
that “the Western nations should
not venture to wage an all-out war
against Communist China,” and that
“Asia should not have priority over
Europe in the world-wide struggle against
Soviet imperialism,” Europe being the
“decisive theatre,” and that they would
continue to oppose “aggression.”
The Western nations won’t venture to
wage all-out war against Communist
China because they can’t. They had
some difficulty in raking-up enough
troops (raw and untrained) to wage all-
out war against the North Koreans, and
it took them three months of prepara-
tion before they were able to do it. When
it came to defending a line about 120
miles long against a Chinese army group
without mechanisation, on which
modern military planners are so strong,
without much artillery and with limited
aircraft, there was nothing left to the
United Nations but to retreat hastily
amid Russian jeers from “Pravda.”
War against Communist China, even
against the million men already said to
be in the field, would call for a vast
amount of Western shipping and man-
power. It would also leave Europe,
southern Asia and Africa, as well as the
Indian Ocean region to which Australia
belongs, almost at the mercy of the
Communists. And despite the “convic-
tions” of prominent “Labor” men like
Mr. Dan Curtin, M.P., who acquired his
statesmanship as a prawn-vendor, and the
evergreen Mr. Eddie Ward, there is no
doubt that Europe must be the decisive
theatre in any war against Communist
headquarters.
There the battle of the world must be
fought because it is the only area into
which Russia can throw large forces
quickly apart from the Middle East, the
only area in which it can strike a decisive
blow in a few weeks.
On the Allied side Europe holds half
the real war potential of civilisation, and
is the one spot from which a war could
be turned round and pushed into the
Kremlin’s own territory, which it would
be necessary to do to win. Also, it is
the nearest area in which decisive
American effort could be applied. Every-
body concerned knows this all too clearly,
and the only people who are not prepared
to say it openly, even in Australia, are
either Communists or people who take
their policy from the Communist unions
or who place party politics before the
safety of the country.
A fight all out against Communistl
China would directly decide nothing. It
has been the policy of the Kremlin in
the last 30 years to promote war or dis-
sension between the nations of the West
to weaken them for its own advantage.
Australia has had a warning of this
within the past few days in the demand
by the head of the most powerful trade-
union federation of Indonesia, which is
the real Government of Indonesia —even
more so than the Communist unions are
of Australia —that eastern New Guinea
should be liberated from Australian
“colonialism,” This means, of course,
that it should be engulfed into the new
Indonesian empire, the creation of which
the Australian Communists and their
“Labor” lackeys were so anxious to
further at the expense of the friendly
Dutch, who were always ready to co-
operate with us in defence.
The Dutch having been thrown out
in circumstances entirely disgraceful
to the then Government of the Common-
wealth, and particularly to Dr. Evatl,
there will be no defence co-operation in
the north. In the next war the
enemy will have its fifth-column
in this country. It will be backed,
it would seem on the evidence
of several recent elections of union
officers, by a very large proportion of
Australian unionists who obviously do not
care overtly whether or not their
leaders are engaged in a treasonable con-
spiracy with a foreign Power, so long
as they fight for constant inflation of
wages and more loaf. It will have the
advantage of chaos created by a “Labor”
Opposition led by the nose by traitors,
and the motto of which was invented for
it by the Communist party in 1939: “Only
‘Labor’ can govern”—which means that
“Labor” is the only party which the
Communist unions will tolerate in power,
since it is the only one they can dominate.
It is a startling position. A voice has
been raised in the Federal Parliament to
speak the blunt truth, that of Mr. Gullett,
who knows as much of war as anybody.
But he had to endure, while he spoke,
the taunts of young Mr. Dilly-dally
Daly, who was taken from the perilous
job of clerking at Garden Island during
the last war to serve as Mr. Calwell’s
Dorothy Dix in Parliament, and of Mr
Dan Curtin, whose presence in a party
is sufficient evidence of how little “Labor”
asks of its candidates.
Mr. Gullett was perfectly right in say-
ing that there was not a unit of the
C.M.F. up to strength, the great majority
not even up to 30 per cent, strength, and
some absolutely valueless. He was right
in saying that the recruiting drive was a
complete failure, that Australian harbors
were full of deteriorating ships. These
ships are idle because of the concerted
and purposeful striking of the wharf-
laborers, which is obviously organised for
a seditious purpose—both to create the
chaos which Communism seeks to create
as part of its plan to produce insurrec-
tion in this country and as part of
a plan to keep as much shipping as pos-
sible hung up at the ends of the earth
so that it cannot be made use of for
carrying troops or war supplies if an
emergency arises out of China’s action
in Korea, which was planned months
ago.
When Mr. Gullett adds that the
numbers involved in the proposed com-
pulsory scheme are “absolutely pathetic”
and that he “cannot understand how the
Government can bring this forward as a
universal-training scheme in view of previ-
ous announcements and commitments,”
he is merely voicing the bewildered re-
action of military and responsible civilian
opinion based on knowledge of the facts.
The attitude of the “Labor” Opposi-
tion is perfectly understandable. It has
never pulled back on the nose-ring by
which the Communist unions lead it
through the A.L.P. branches. But courage
and more than a lip-service to reality was
to be expected of Mr. Menzies and his
followers, for whom even at the present
crisis the whole matter seems to repre-
sent little more than a matter of prin-
ciple. Australian troops are being killed
or wounded nearly every day, and at the
moment are being threatened with ex-
pulsion from Korea. British subjects are
being murdered wholesale in Malaya. A
campaign is beginning for the subversion
of New Guinea into a hostile and
hysterical empire on our very shores.
At any moment this radio-mad, racing-
mad Australia may find itself in a situa-
tion in which it becomes plunged in-
stantly into a world struggle for survival
which will call for the mobilisation and
equipment on the spot of every
adult in the country in order to save
itself from ravage, conquest and perhaps
annihilation of the race on a scale which
has overtaken the unfortunate Latvians
and Estonians. It is about time some of
the political heads of our defence
Ministries, who are Ministers only be-
cause of expediency, were thrown out and
Ministers with a sufficient sense of grim
realities were put in their place.
Strikes Don't Pay.
Last week two men differing widely in
their political and industrial outlooks met
for a moment on common ground in
condemning the futility of strikes. Mr.
C. N. McKay, president of the Associ-
ated Chambers of Manufactures, said
strikes were outmoded as an industrial
weapon ; they delayed production, sowed
dissension and damaged the national
economy. By keeping the rank-and-file
unionist financially insecure they checked
any real rise in the standard of living.
A generation ago such a statement
would have been condemned by the entire
“Labor” movement as employer-propa-
ganda designed to keep wages and living
conditions at a low level. That Mr.
McKay’s remarks brought no such out-
burst is due to the fact that many
“Labor” men know in their hearts that
the statement is absolutely true. Tradi-
tion impels them to give lip-service to
the “right to strike” ; commonsense tells
them to avoid exercising the right.
Morally, the right to strike lost its
validity when the “Labor” movement
accepted arbitration as a means of settling
industrial disputes—though, of course, no
“Labor” man would admit that out loud.
The “Labor” party is nothing if not con-
servative, and anyone wishing to change
its habits of thought must move very
cautiously. This was evident in the
speech of Mr. Keon, M.H.R. for Yarra,
the second speaker to comment last week
on the futility of strikes. As a thorough-
going anti-Communist, Mr. Keon knows
that the great majority of strikes in recent
years have not been genuine industrial
disputes at all, but have been politically
inspired for the purpose of hindering
production. But Mr. Keon did not dis-
avow the “right to strike” ; he merely
praised unions which “reserved” it and
quoted figures to prove that they had
gained more for their members than the
Communist-led unions had by striking.
It may not be a highly moral approach,
but it is an eminently practical one. As
Mr. Keon pointed out, it is constantly
being said of the Red union leaders that
“they get results” ; the wharfies and the
miners are quoted as examples. If the
rank-and-file unionists can be convinced
that this is not the truth, the Communist
grip is weakened. That it is not the truth
is shown by figures quoted by Mr. Keon.
These show that in the past 10 years
the wages of miners have increased by
62 per cent. This, the Communist leaders
of the Miners’ Federation claim, is due
to their policy of direct-action. But in
the same period the wages of non-Com-
munist, non-militant unions have in-
creased by 74 per cent.; in the case of
the A.W.U.-led pastoral workers, by 78
per cent. Thus the strike policy has
gained less in actual wage-increases than
adherence to arbitration. In addition the
miners have lost through strikes over
£1,000,000 in wages. Figures for water-
siders show similar results.
The remarks of Mr. McKay and Mr.
Keon were given additional point by the
collapse of the Victorian railway strike —
a complete surrender after 54 days’ dis-
location of the State’s transport service
and a loss in wages of £1,838,000. Rail-
waymen, duped by advocates of direct-
action, have learnt the hard way that
strikes do not pay. The lesson should not
be lost on commonsense rank-and-file
unionists in other industries.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Canada and the Atom-bomb.
U.N.O. having fallen down again while
trying to prevent war, the scene in
Korea recalls nothing so much as
the old-time picture in the sub-
Caucasian forests, with an unhappy
family going full lick in a sled with the
wolves pursuing. The threatened com-
pany is about to throw out on to the snow
a sick child whose life is hardly worth
a cracker, anyway. Pathetic, of course ;
but that is what comes of worshipping
U.N.O. as a god of peace and going out
to hunt wolves without shooting. The
new rules for this sort of adventure are,
firstly, that there must be no shooting
unless the wolves attack first, and,
secondly, any shooting if they do attack
will only antagonise them the more.
The mistake in Korea, as the world
may now see, was to suppose that the
crisis of the first Communist invasion had
somehow miraculously produced strength
in U.N.O. to repel it and “restore peace.”
Actually the Communist attack, backed
by one executive member of U.N.O. in
concert with an aspirant to a more-or-less-
vacant seat on U.N.O.’s permanent execu-
tive, was against -the United States (an-
other senior executive), and was so
accepted by Washington. But the U.S.
commander on the spot, General Mac-
Arthur, soon had his hands tied by the
futile crowd at Lake Success ; and when,
following his defeat of the first aggressive
wave in Korea, his forces were attacked
by Russia’s Chinese ally, President Tru-
man’s first reaction was to announce that
the U.S. forces would not abandon Korea
and would use “every weapon,” including,
if necessary, the atomic bomb, “to meet
the situation.”
This was a mistake, both in grand
strategy for the Western democracies, and
in consideration of the modernly necessary
rule that the proposed victims of aggres-
sion must make quite plain to all their
friends and sympathisers in the world
who the aggressors really are. In plain
fact, the Anglo-American military interest
is to win time for the strengthening of
Western Europe in order, through such
strength there, to dissuade Moscow from
starting a world war. The proposal to
use the atom-bomb in Korea or North
Manchuria was therefore rejected in
London and Ottawa —in Ottawa because,
as the very capable Canadian External
Affairs Minister, L. B. Pearson, said last
week, “Canada was a partner in the
development of atomic energy.” What-
ever the British Prime Minister, hastening
to Washington, may have said to Presi-
dent Truman, he could not put the case
better than did Mr. Pearson to a Canadian
political conference:
It is only safe to assume that Peking
risked armed intervention in Korea on the
basis of assurances of assistance from the
Soviet Union if intervention should lead to
military operations against the territory of
China. Just as Chinese intervention in
Korea has led to the danger of open war
with China, so similar Soviet intervention
on behalf of China might lead to open
war with the Soviet Union. It is to be
hoped that the autocrats of the Kremlin
understand this danger as well as we do.
.... I am not sure that we can reconcile
our interests in world peace with the pur-
poses behind Chinese intervention, but we
must try, and we must try by some more
practical and effective means than mere
public statements of good Intentions and
pious hopes....
The Soviet Union already possesses the
capability to wage a major war at any
time. Its policies, moreover, show it will-
ing to take the risk of provoking one even
though it may not deliberately desire one
at present. .. .The Soviet Union would
probably wish to reach a higher degree of
preparedness especially for air and atomic
warfare and to augment its economic
potential before becoming engaged in hos-
tilities. The possibility that this cautious
and delaying attitude is the basis of Soviet
foreign policy must be weighed against
the temptation to take advantage of pass-
ing opportunity offered by a relative ,
Western weakness....
There is some discussion going on at
present whether the atom-bomb should or
should not be used against the aggressors
in Korea. One important consideration
must be the effect of such use on the re-
lations of the Western world with Asia.
The military and others may argue that
the atomic bomb is just another weapon,
but in the minds of ordinary people every-
where in the world it is far more than
that, and its use has acquired an immen-
sely greater significance than any other
aspect of war.... The strategic use of
the bomb against Chinese cities might con-
ceivably reverse the course of military
events in Korea now, but possibly at the
cost of destroying the cohesion and the
unity of purpose of the Atlantic com-
munity. Certainly its use for a second
time against an Asian people would dan-
gerously weaken the links that remain be-
tween the Western world and the peoples
of the East....
It is essential to try to see the world
steadily, realistically and as a whole. The
obvious Soviet game is to provoke inci-
dents and tensions at various points on
border lands between the Western World
and the Soviet Union and. to try to lead
us into the trap of concentrating too great
a proportion of our limited resources on
one or two isolated border points. It is
clear that the Communists are trying to
lead us into this trap in Korea.
Nevertheless, what happens about
Formosa, Hong Kong and admission of
the successful aggressor to the permanent
executive of U.N.O. has yet to be seen.
Obstruction—the Remedy.
The “Labor” majority of the Senate
fittingly ended its year of wanton and
inglorious obstruction, mainly in the
interests of the Communist party, by
putting a nail in the coffin of the very
limited defence scheme which the Govern-
ment has brought forward and which was
bitterly but justly criticised by its own
Whip in the House of Representatives.
In the present condition of the world
it is scarcely conceivable that any respon-
sible party would hold up for three or
four months any training scheme what-
ever ; but the party hacks and walking-
votes who adorn the “Labor” benches
in the Senate are not free agents, and
must do what they are told by caucus,
which, in turn, stands at the salute and
whispers “Aye, aye” whenever the Com-
munist-led unions collectively look in
their direction.
The Senate majority has deferred con-
sideration of the Defence (Call-up) Bill,
which was to operate next March, for
three months ostensibly while a Senate
committee inquires into it. The complete
falsity of this excuse is obvious from
several facts.
In the first place, no Senate
committee, or any other Opposition
CANBERRA
CRICKET CLUB
1950
Bowler
Satsm&n
Whi runs
Chicley O O MenZ'ES.no O
WARD o O rADDEM .110.0
Evatt O O Total, "o
calwell o o : —-r-
O wickets eor O rums
Inninqs declared closed
until further notice.
MORE QUEER CRICKET.
committee, can inquire fully because
it has not the Government’s access
to facts about the international
situation and about the interlocking
arrangements with other countries. These,
in important instances, are secrets be-
tween the Prime Minister, Defence
Minister, C.G.S. and heads of overseas
Governments, and overseas Governments
would tremble at the thought of details
which affect the security of their own
countries being made available to men
who are so closely linked with Com-
munist-controlled bodies and whose last
published Federal-party directory actually
names a Communist official as
secretary of one of its sections.
In the second place, the committee is
entirely a “Labor” committee, some of
its members noted for almost anything
but knowledge of defence.
The ostensible purpose of the com-
mittee is to inquire into the bill. The
real purpose is to delay the measure until
the Federal Executive of the A.L.P. passes
judgment on it next March. No finding
by the committee will make the slightest
difference to its ultimate fate in the
Senate, which will be decided by the
unelected junta outside Parliament
according to the wishes of the big Com-
munist-led unions which dominate the
Australian “Labor” party and make its
policies for it. There is no betting on
what the decision will be because the
Federal Executive decision is a foregone
conclusion.
It is certainly time the Government
took steps towards a double-dissolution.
If the people of Australia wish to go
undefended and to rely for their security
on the friendship with the U.S.S.R. of its
fifth-column inside the “Labor” move-
ment, they should be given the oppor-
tunity to say so once and for all.
On “Labor’s” present theory of gov-
ernment, Parliament might just as well
be abolished, since “Labor” does not
acknowledge the validity of its decisions
unless the Federal A.L.P. Executive
approves them ; and the issue of whether
we are to be governed by a Leftist dic-
tatorship or try to remain a democracy
in the face of the persistent organised
efforts of the united front of “Labor”
and Communism to wreck the Constitu-
tion by undermining it should be fought
out as early as possible.
Food in the Future.
Accepting the fairly obvious fact that
within 10 years natural increase and immi-
gration will bring our population to
11,000,000, the Bureau of Agricultural
Economics at Canberra says that if we
are to feed that population and maintain
exports the following annual increases in
land production will be necessary:
Beef .. .. 40 p.c. Mutton .. 58 p.c.
Lamb .. 23 p.c. Pigmeats .. 78 p.c.
Eggs .. .. 31 p.c. Sugar .. 28 p.c.
Citrus .. 61 p.c. Dried grapes 15 p.c.
Total milk .37 p.c. Wheat .. 7 p.c.
Nothing is said of rice, fish and
vegetables, though the bureau says pota-
toes must increase by 220,000 tons a
year.
The soil itself is more than capable of
this added production. Eleven million
people could be put in the Riverina alone,
and the soil there would feed, clothe and
house them and leave room for more.
But the soil is not being properly managed,
and a lot of it is being irrecoverably lost.
On the land, as elsewhere, the pro-
duction economy is unbalanced. Land
production is hampered by too many
restrictions, mostly artificial and unneces-
sary, many of them imposed to meet
conditions that have long since passed
away.
And almost all of our commodity-
control boards, whether “grower-
controlled” or otherwise, were created
in times when agricultural prices
were ruinously low. They were a
means of giving the farmer some
sort of equitable return in an era
of overproduction. Not the least part
of their activities was to restrict produc-
tion ; and, absurdly enough, they still do
it, either directly by a licensing system
(as in the case of wheat, milk, eggs,
potatoes and peanuts), or indirectly by
fixing prices which, failing to meet costs,
force the grower to drop production of a
necessary commodity in favor of another
which is free of price-control.
Other controls were imposed in war-
time as part of the national supply plan ;
though that war ended more than five
years ago they still operate, partly for
want of the will to end them, and partly
as a heritage from the post-war Socialist
planning era.
An illustration of the way State price-
control works with foodstuffs was lately
shown with potatoes. Fixed at 4d. a
pound in Sydney, potatoes vanished and
their substitutes —pumpkins and swedes —
jumped to Is. a pound, while “black-
market” potatoes, i.e., those not sold
through the Potato Board, fetched any-
thing from 9d. to 2s. When the fixed
price was made 6d. potatoes reappeared,
whereupon the price-fixers talked of
making them 4d. again. Housewives
announced they’d sooner pay 6d. for
potatoes than Bd. to Is. for pumpkin and
swede. Meantime Queensland potatoes
were kept off the Brisbane market and
were “smuggled” over the border to the
N.S.W. “black.” And many potato-
growers watched stored potatoes go
bad while they waited the Potato Board’s
permission to send them to market.
All this maddens growers, whose sanity
is not helped by being desperately short
of labor and materials. They can’t pro-
duce more, fight pests and diseases or
effect improvements while all essential
material is claimed for housing, factory-
building, schools, hospitals. Government
“works,” railways, tramways, etc., and
labor is seduced from the land with high
wages and short hours in the cities.
And in the transport of foodstuffs we
are in a carnival of wasteful confusion.
Railway authorities harass and penalise
road transport, which is put to illegal
shifts to do its work. Ships lie idle in
our harbors for weeks on end, often until
the foodstuffs they carry go rotten. No
machinery among all these controllers
exists to get gluts to the people or turn
them into preserved stocks; instead,
loads of wholesome food are dumped.
Only a “wilful, lavish land” could
stand this sort of thing. How long
it will continue to stand it, let
alone produce more, is the question. It
would be so easy to cut away all the
deadwood if we had the will to do it, and
in this matter every Government in the
land stands guilty of apathy or down-
right connivance in the whole mess.
Crime and Politics.
Our habit of mind is more to consider
discovered criminals in high places
unfitted for government than, with Alex
Comfort, in his Authority and Delin-
quency in the Modern State (Routledge
and Kegan Paul), to consider how far
government suits criminals and calls the
worst out of a man.
Most of us have agreed vaguely with
Lord Acton’s often-quoted remark that
“power corrupts and absolute power
corrupts absolutely”—the argument, on
its face value, and submitted to any man’s
experience, wide or narrow, is unanswer-
able, though perhaps we keep senti-
mental or polite reservations about this
man and that; as he did himself in his
conclusion: “Great men are nearly
always bad.” But Dr. Comfort goes
further, to consider the attraction of
power for the already-corrupted:—■
The incentives which political life offers
no longer include wealth or the prestige of
former times. An individual is likely,
therefore, to become a candidate either
because he has a strong social sense and a
desire to end abuses and benefit his country,
or because he desires power and its satis-
factions and has failed to achieve them
through the normal mechanism of domi-
nance... .Strong public convictions may in
themselves be a product of abnormality:
few leaders can have surpassed Adolf
Hitler in their sense of mission.
Others may desire power as a vehicle of
revenge (upon the system which left them
with family memories of the means test —
upon the society which declined to give
them the social recognition they desired)
or from the prohibition-complex which
leads to the foundation of societies for
the prevention of something. Not all these
attitudes are either abnormal or in the
long run harmful —societies progress
through their least-contented members. The
centralised system of election, however,
selects very heavily against the principled
and moderate, and against those leadership-
attributes which depend on face-to-face
contacts.
The best-adjusted members of most par-
ties occupy the back benches rather than
the Ministerial front bench. The rational
leader may ultimately have a decreasing
chance against the determined climber and
the psychopath who reflects the attitude of
the frustrated crowd, or who is living down
his own failures of adjustment.
Dr. Comfort catalogues the “inade-
quate psychopath a facile, genial and
superficially sociable character, whose
placidity and emotional blunting can be
mistaken for profundity he may react
to emergency by frenzied efforts to estab-
lish control or by the aggression of the
cornered rabbit.” But the “aggressive
egocentric is a far more typical figure
in the political struggle”;
The antisociality of these subjects is as
much a matter of attitude as of overt
behavior —they are conceited, ambitious,
domineering and intolerant.
Politics is an ideal field for the con-
fidence-man :
The centralisation of urban democracy
has brought the techniques of electoral
propaganda and those of commercial
advertising into very close proximity
The confidence-man is more dependent
upon his victim than any other type of
criminal —he can operate only if he has
access to the credulous, the acquisitive, the
bewildered and the insecure. These charac-
teristics are prominent in the urban elec-
torate : while it is upon credulity and greed
that the criminal swindler depends for a
livelihood, his political counterpart depends
largely upon the existence of a sense p£
{Continued on next page.}


5728 E-R
Keep
to—
craven*
.« throats safe©
for y° ur
Obtainable
Sn 10’s & 20’s
CARRERAS LIMITED-OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
I
r:
zlMm
insecurity and the desire of the public to
appoint a trusted delegate....
Not only is government attractive to
paranoiac and alcoholic individuals [“The
modern man in a responsible, and often
overburdening, situation uses alcohol as
a source of relief where his eighteenth-
century counterpart used it as a source
of conviviality”], but also to gangsters
and executive groups of terrorists, notably
Corps d’Elite or “enforcement elite.”
The main cohering force of these bodies
is, under modern conditions, a common
repudiation of responsibility for the orders
which they carry out.
The doctor also discusses how much
effort to throw off feelings of guilt may
be behind the conduct of what Dr. Evatt
once called “elected persons” and how
far their attitudes may be traced to
Freudian complexes; and concludes in
favor of “the impulse of love and spon-
taneity.”
POLITICAL POINTS
On Friday Canberra followed the State
Parliaments into Christmas recess. Last
significant act of the “Labor”-controlled
Senate was to adjourn the debate on the
National Service Bill until the House
resumes next year. Senator Spooner’s
comment was that if he were a member
of the Opposition he would be unable to
sleep after such an action. It would
take much more than that to give those
hard-faced “Labor” Senators insomnia.
Menzies referred to Doc. Evatt’s speech
on a motion calling for discussion on
“the Government’s failure to carry out
anti-inflation policies” as the most pitiful
ever made by any prospective leader. A
slight exaggeration; some of the other
prospective leaders of Federal “Labor”
could give it a ten-cliche start and a lick-
ing.
Joe Gullett’s attack on the National
Service Bill, which he described as “in-
adequate and pathetic,” was cheered by
“Labor” members because Gullett was,
for the moment, agin’ the Guvment, not
because they agreed with what he said.
The scheme is pathetically inadequate,
but no “Labor” voice has been heard
saying so ; those who have spoken against
it, as distinct from those seeking a select
committee, have given the impression that
they regard the measure as a plot to send
every able-bodied man to fight in Tim-
buktu, leaving Australia absolutely un-
defended.
The National Service Bill is a com-
promise. It looks like somebody’s esti-
mate of the maximum a “Labor” Senate
could be expected to swallow in the way
of compulsory training—as it turns out,
an overestimate. Gullett is not the only
Government member critical of the train-
ing plan, and it would not be surprising
to see something more realistic put for-
ward when Parliament meets again.
“Labor” has apparently given away its
“push-button” strategy for resisting an
enemy. If an invader appears now
“Labor” will refer it to a committee.
Just before closing down the Queens-
land Assembly debated a bill to compel
all Queensland Government employees to
take an oath of allegiance. Brisbane
“Courier-Mail” believes it is “aimed speci-
fically at Communists,” and added that
it was “officially stated” that the bill was
“not linked” with the Federal anti-Red
bill but had been “dictated by current
international events.” Maybe, but it
shows how sensitive the Hanlons are to
Queensland public opinion.
It must be great to be in a position
like Jack Ferguson, Pooh-Bah of
“Labor” politics in New South Wales,
and be able to speak with authority on
behalf of both sides in an industrial dis-
pute. As Federal vice-president of the
A.R.U. and secretary of its N.S.W.
branch he was able to attack the Victorian
Government, which, he said, was “equally
culpable with the Railways Commis-
sioners” for the Victorian rail strike. At
the same time he was able to say, appar-
ently with authority, that the New South
Wales “Labor” Government
would not tolerate a wages disparity in
which its railwaymen would be denied the
£1 basic-wage increase as a result of Federal
deregistration of the union.
Ferguson said the Victorian Govern-
ment’s decision to seek deregistration of
the two striking unions would not settle
the rail dispute. That was on Tuesday of
last week. By Thursday the A.F.U.L.E.
had decided to resume work on a date
to be fixed by the A.C.T.U., and the
A.R.U. had called a meeting of guards
for the following day. The A.F.U.L.E.
took this step “to avoid deregistration,”
and a resolution passed determined that
.... the union shall now take whatever
steps are available to it within the union’s
policy of conciliation and arbitration
to secure its demands on overtime and
passive time. Thus, after nearly eight
weeks of direct action, the misleaders of
the railwaymen suddenly found out that
the real policy of the union was one of
conciliation and arbitration.
Sudden collapse of the Victorian rail
strike after the Government decided to
apply for deregistration of the unions
involved has set Melbourne folk asking
why Premier McDonald didn’t take this
step earlier. “Labor”-leader Cain could
probably answer that one. As to why
McDonald ultimately took action—well,
the fact that the L.-C.P. had arranged
more than 60 public meetings to protest
against the Government’s handling of the
dispute could have had something to do
with it.
The statisticians have been at work
trying to compute the cost of the strike.
An exact answer is impossible, but one
estimate is that the idiotic business cost
the Victorian Railways £500,000 and the
railwaymen £1,800,000. Even if the men’s
claims are now granted, most of them
will go to their graves without having re-
couped in extra wages the amount they
deliberately deprived themselves of during
the strike. Ferguson, M.L.C., and Eli
Harrison, M.H.R., will probably be able
to explain to them how their “fight” bene-
fited the workers—or perhaps they’ll
leave that task to Comrade Brown.
N.S.W. Chief Secretary Clive Evatt has
ruled that no prawn less than 4in. long
shall be marketed in the State. If the
A.L.P. had such exacting rules Clive
himself would never have gained
endorsement.
“A village Hampden” has turned up in
a Sydney funeral business, the owner of
which is opposed to social-services tax,
won’t pay it and has allowed his estate
worth £11,260 to pass to the Official Re-
ceiver rather than pav the £2BO tax. Pre-
sumably the receiver will discharge all
debts, whereupon the funeral-director
will be discharged from bankruptcy, re-
sume business, get a demand for social-
services tax next year, again refuse to
pay, have his estate passed to the re-
ceiver, who will discharge all debts, where-
upon the funeral man —but that’s enough.
What he said is the real point:
Once a man’s value to the country and
the community was his earning-power and
independent spirit. Today it depends upon
his ability to fill in forms. We pay large
amounts in contributions and later have to
ask for them back after paying enormous
commissions to officers who collect them.
There’s a lot of hypocrisy behind the
“Labor” move to pay all former p.-0.-w.
35.-a-day sustenance-money. The sug-
gestion cropped up at intervals during
the last three years of the Chifley Govern-
ment, but nothing was ever done about
it. The Menzies Government appointed
a committee to consider the claim, and
the majority report of the committee
advised against payment. “Labor” is
now urging acceptance of the minority
report.
There’s hypocrisy, too, in the outcry
for a revaluation of war gratuities. There
is no denying that the pound is worth
considerably less than it was when the
War Gratuity Act was passed, but there
is no case for placing the gratuity on a
different footing from any other fixed
payment. To be consistent, those who
are raising the cry should also advocate
a revaluation of Commonwealth bonds
on the grounds that the pounds to be
paid back are worth less than the pounds
that were lent. Any “Labor” man
prepared to advocate that ?
Always ready to jump on the band-
wagon in support of any cause which
enables them to pose as friends of the
underdog, the Corns are pushing the
gratuity-rise for all they’re worth. Back
in 1944 they made a great song-and-dance
over the “battle-bonus” stunt. Their
pose then was that they were all for the
soldier; it is still their pose as far as
stunting and yapping are concerned, but
their Sydney rag regards Australian
soldiers fighting in Korea as “imperialist
forces,” “aggressors” and “barbarians.”
It doesn’t actually use these words about
Australian soldiers, but it applies them
to the American forces alongside whom
the Aussies are fighting.
The terrible thing about the “Labor”
Senate’s shelving of the Government’s
national training bill at this juncture is
the public’s apparent indifference.
Adelaide wharflaborers have an-
nounced that they won’t load beer onto
ships for W.A. because there is an
“apparent shortage of beer in Port
Adelaide.” Now, if wharfies in Fre-
mantle have to go short as a result, and
go on strike about it, that ought to prove
something—though heaven only knows
what it’ll be.
One batch of legislators who knocked
off for Christmas did so in the knowledge
that they wouldn’t be coming back ; New
Zealand’s Legislative Council goes out
of existence with the last stroke of the
Old Year,
Householders linked to the Sydney
County Council electricity scheme will
probably have to pay 2s. 6d. in the £1
more after January 1, other electricity
users 20 p.c. more. Well, that mightn’t
be so bad —if only they can get some
electricity.
Bert Evatt wrote a puff for the dust-
jacket of a novel published in Sydney.
Brother Clive, in his capacity of N. S.
Wales Chief Secretary, has issued a
written statement saying that the Crown
Law Office will determine whether com-
plaints about the novel are justified, and
that no action will be taken if he con-
siders the book “a contribution to* litera-
ture.” Bert has already described the
work as “a novel of first-rate import-
ance.” What odds that Little Sir Echo
won’t agree?
Silt in Newcastle Harbor apparently
has beaten the Richard Vowell and other
dredges, as forecast in The Bulletin.
Dutch engineers, it is reported, are to be
brought in for consultation.
Calwell, in a broadcast from Mel-
bourne, said Australia would become a
nation of “white coolies” within 12
months if inflation continued. During
the eight years of power which Mr. Cal-
well’s crowd enjoyed, they did their best
to turn Australian women into coolies,
the only difference being that the women
had to lump stringbags and suitcases
instead of bundles on poles.
At the N. S. Wales Local Government
elections both parties in one municipality
pledged themselves to advocate free milk
for schoolchildren. They were on an
easy winner ; the State Government had
already agreed to co-operate with the
Federal in the Earle Page scheme.
Menzies told the House last week that
for four weeks he had been trying to get
“one State Government to make one vital
person” available for an inquiry into
overlapping of State and Federal Depart-
ments and had had no answer. Most of
the State shows were far too busy lapping
one another in the rush into the Christmas
recess —which, in N. S. Wales, lasts six
months.
Reports that the Jubilee celebrations
were to include a “Soap-Box Derby”
raised the hopes of Domain and Yarra-
bank orators, including some Parlia-
mentarians who visualised themselves
carrying off prizes for spouting. Their
hopes were soon dashed; the “Derby” is
merely a billycart race.
In their annual reports on the working
of the much-abused arbitration system,
two justices of the Federal Court —
Foster and Dunphy, JJ. —criticise the
lack of contact between court and con-
ciliation commissioners, and advocate
appointment of more judges to avoid de-
lays in inquiring into irregularities in
union ballots; and Chief Commissioner
Mooney remarks on the outstanding fea-
ture of the age of “more jobs than men,”
namely, the aggressive power of the
unions—“greater than ever before.”
When Ward and Calwell continue their
pre-dissolution spruiking-tour their audi-
ences should get some interesting answers
if they fire questions at them on immigra-
tion and defence. Eddie is still pressing
his view that no migrants should be ad-
mitted until the housing-shortage is over-
come, while Arthur is backing the Holt
programme and saying that if he were
still Minister he would be carrying out a
similar plan. Calwell advocates allowing
New Australians to serve in the armed
forces ; Ward, of course, doesn’t really
believe in the necessity for having armed
forces.
Record prices for wool are no longer
news. Last week a new high was reached,
at 372 pence a pound. It didn’t make the
front page in any paper ; one metropoli-
tan daily got the item into less than an
inch.
Before his departure for Britain to fix
up a sugar agreement. Premier Hanlon
warned Queenslanders that they could
expect more State taxation next year if
the State deficit continued. When last
inspected the deficit was blooming with
health at the £2 million mark, and nothing
in the immediate future seems likely to
weaken it. Hanlon blames Canberra for
not giving the States big enough hand-
outs ; but, then, so do all the other
Premiers.


"Mr. W. T. King said that he and
his four colleagues on Concord
(Sydney) Council had met their
Waterloo because the election
coincided with the peak paspalum
growth, which ruined women's
«» nylons."
.JUN&S •
“The 'mermaid silhouette' is
being featured by Paris and
London designers.” /
jjk
"mr
"In Brisbane the chief officer of
the Soviet freighter Omsk said
that Australian Communists
would not be welcomed on
board."
WMlBp
"When the Premier of Tasmania said
in the Assembly that he knew of no
way of making people drink more
milk, Mr. Dwyer interjected: 'Put
some rum in it!*"
“Members of Parliament may pedal
their way to Canberra during the
Jubilee bicycle - courier service
next year."
MERMAIDS AND OTHER ODD FISH.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Col M.”: My little girl is at an age
when the Three Bears are big stuff. So
when the wireless announcer said that
the next tune would be about those very
animals I called her to come and listen.
1 should have known better ; one part of
the record which has stuck in my mind
was “ ‘Hey bop de re bear,’ said the
little wee bear.” The thing was half-
finished when a blackout came. The
little girl’s lip trembled and she looked
at me suspiciously as I vowed that I had
not done it, and that wirelesses and lights
do that sort of thing these days. I told
her that it would come on again fairly
soon. When it did, an hour later, she
rushed in, stopped and burst into tears.
Well, how would you explain what had
happened to the Three Bears?
• * ♦ *
“Ilex”: It was while we were camped
in Egypt in World War I that Mohammed
was attached to
Divvy H.Q. as
Gyp p o inter-
preter. Later
Mohammed
asked for a few
days’ leave to
attend to some
urgent domestic
problem. The
period of his
leave having ex-
pired, he failed
to return to duty.
We thought he
had “gone through” for good, but at
length a letter of explanation reached
H.Q. and explained everything. “To the
Manager of the British Army,—My
absence has been impossible. A man
has removed my wife. By Allah, I am
annoyed.”
* * * *
“Sackville”: I’m no Scrooge; songs
about Christmas, the Old Home, etc.,
appeal to my simple mind about this time
of the year. It’s the hypocrisy of Tin
Pan Alley crooners that makes me gnaw
lumps out of the radio. Why must they
fill in time between choruses by reciting
at me in reproachful tones “Go home to
CKMOtS .1
“Ridiculous paying five shillings for half an hour when George
Was doing nothing."
the old folks this Christmas, lad” or
something similar? I go home—which,
I’ve reason to believe, is more than they
do. Take the renowned Mammy-lover,
AI Jolson, as an example. For more than
20 years I endured the Jolson voice
vigorously proclaiming that its owner
would “Walk a million miles for one of
your smiles, my maa-a-hamee.” Then
1 witnessed the film which was alleged
to portray the singer’s life-story.
Although the directors conveniently for-
got two of the four Jolson wives, they
apparently saw nothing amiss in depict-
ing the revered mother as an anxious old
lady who followed the doings and where-
abouts of her son through no other source
than Press reports. To sing with vocifer-
ous fervor of one’s readiness to under-
take mighty pedestrian feats for the
pleasure of a maternal smile would, no
doubt, be somewhat easier than to go
home occasionally, or even scribble a
line or two on the back of a postcard.
» * * *
“C.Q.”: Latest acquisition of the Mel-
bourne Public Library is not by courtesy
of the Felton Bequest, but an unexpected
return for 12,000 tons of gift food sent to
Lincolnshire county by Australians. It is
Matthew Flinders’s sea-chest, and if he
had it aboard the little Tom Thumb, in
which he and Bass followed the coastline
down from Sydney, he must have had to
dangle his legs in the water. It’s an
immense affair six feet by three, and is
being donated by Mrs. Dods, of Nettle-
ham (Lines.), who visited Melbourne re-
cently to inspect her great ancestor's
letters. The chest was lost to the family
when Flinders’s stepmother died and the
local schoolmaster bought it. The family
bought it back years later.
* * * *
“Bo”: Resolved: That any present I.
get this year I am going to use up, such
resolutions springing from an unfortunate
incident of last Christmas. It was
three years ago that I received from
Uncle Claude, a few days before the
25th, a bowl of some exotic shaving-
cream called Twilight in Budapest. As
I already had a couple of sticks of
shaving-soap on hand (9d. at Bullworths)
1 pushed it in a drawer, unwilling to
anoint my homely mug with such expen-
sive lather. On that Christmas Eve ray
cousin Cadwallader dropped in unex-
pectedly bearing a noble present of a
golf-ball. Handsomely, I hauled out the
Twilight in Budapest, still in its fancy
cellophane overcoat and handed it over
in reciprocation. Now, how could I
anticipate that Cadwallader would do
even as I, and shove it away, unwilling
to use such a thing of beauty? The
following Christmas the idiot gave it as
a present to our mutual avuncular rela-
tive, Claude. Last Christmas I got from
Uncle Claude, in response to my gift of
a cellophaned golf-ball, a bowl of exotic
shaving-cream. It was called Twilight in
Budapest, and with it came a terse note:
“This is the second time round. You
may still see my original card under the
lid,”
* * * *
“Becks”: Sydney celebrated its 150th
anniversary in 1938, Newcastle in 1947 ;
third place in the sesquicentennial handi-
cap goes to an outsider, Mt. Gambier
(S.A.), which last week hung out the flags,
turned on the beer and in other ways
drew attention to the fact that it had been
on the map of Australia for 150 years.
There’s a slight catch in the claim, which
will make Civic Fathers in other towns
kick themselves for not thinking of it
first; the celebrations commemorate not
the founding of the town, but the dis-
covery of the geographical feature from
which it derives its name. On December
3, 1800, Lieutenant Grant in the 60-ton
brig Lady Nelson, who, after rounding
Cape Leeuwin, had steered a course
further north than was customary as,
following Flinders’s instructions, he was
aiming to pass through Bass Strait, made
a landfall near what is now the border of
South Australia and Victoria and named
the two volcanic peaks he saw Mt.
Gambier and Mt. Schank. Grant was the
first Britisher to sight South Australian
soil, but nearly two centuries earlier a
Dutchman, Peter Nuyts, groped his way
along the shores of the Bight to a point
near where Ceduna now stands.
* * * *
“Hamfat”; My prize exhibit of booze
imaginatis was a young actress who
attended a New Year’s champagne supper
given by our show, but, having been
brought up in strong temperance prin-
ciples, kept to her favorite tipple—ginger-
beer. My suggestion that she should
sample the bubbly was only intended as a
joke; feeling some responsibility on
account of her immaturity, when she
announced that she would, I filled her
champagne glass as my conscience dic-
tated. “It’s lovely!” she enthused. “It’s
just like ginger-
beer ! ” —which, of
course, it was. A
little later she
complained o f
feeling a trifle
giddy ; she sagged
heavily as I led
her to the cab
which took her
back to her pub.
Next morning she
had a booze head-
ache ; and when I
tried assuring her
that she had had
nothing stronger
than ginger-beer
she plainly showed she regarded me as
a liar. Years later, when she had over-
come her anti-liquor prejudices, she
declared that she never drank champagne
because the stuff gave her a headache.
An old lady now, she persists in thinking
that I was the first man to induce her to
have a drink.
* * * *
“Kelms”: Some time ago on this page
I wrote condemning the charges made
by builders, and was promptly sat
upon by one of the tribe. The
other day my evening daily carried
the advertisement of a carpenter,
offering his services for £3 a day. As
that would be ordinary time, for week-
end work he’d probably want a fiver a
day. Mentioned the advertisement to a
friend who is building, and he glumly
nodded—he’s paying a bricklayer eight
quid a thousand. The brickie lays 700 a
day so he's getting £5 12s. a day. At
that he’s doing my friend a favor ; he’d
get more on jobs in the country, the
cockies being in a position, now, to do
those building jobs they’ve been putting
off for years. I’m not blaming the trades-
men for getting what they can. What
I’m crooked on is the fact that the best of
them are still working for wages. The
five-quid-a-day, eight-quid-a-thousand
bandits are mostly poor tradesmen who’d
find it hard to get a job in normal times.
* * * *
“R.W.”: Reform of the wrongdoer
(B. 22 /11 / ’50)? Our headmaster insisted
that all boys who truanted should attend
a defaulters’ roll-call twice a day. Once
on the line the boy stayed there for the
rest of his school life. One lad had been
on it for nearly three years, and because
of his excellent record in school-work and
conduct over that period the head was
persuaded to relax his rule. Next day
the boy went through and wagged it for
a week.
* * * *
“Clooter”: I give you this passage as
it appeared in my morning newspaper, a
sheet which for more than a century has
prided itself on the clarity of its English
—“Lindwall’s pace could at least be
expected to behave after pitching with
some regard to the suggestions made by
the ball during transit. Nonetheless,
Iverson was spinning unpleasantly at the
close.” It was written by Neville Cardus,
who has some reputation as a writer. I
suggest that wherever Australian uni-
versity authorities desire to make matri-
culation examinations difficult in order to
ease the pressure on university accom-
modation, they should include this
passage in the English paper and invite
honors students to explain it.
miaf
■ rict io n -
r u*g —fc G, A^tS
t *• r
“I’m looking for 'A Fate Worse Than Death.'"
SCHOONERS IS OFF.
“Some hotelkeepers may be forced to sell only
middies of beer unless a machine which makes
schooner-glasses at a Sydney glassworks is repaired
quickly.”
The barmaid was wrinkled with worry;
She said, “It’s too fraightful, Ai’m sure;
Ai’m reahlly most awfully sorrai,
We haven’t got schooners no more:
Ai’m sorrai we haven’t a schooner,
But what can Ai give you instead?”
Well, one of the boys was a crooner,
And these are the words what he said:
“Beer! Beer! Bars full of beer!
So long as it doesn’t go off.
You’re welcome to pump it
In trombone or trumpet
For hard-worked musicians to quaff;
A large kettledrum
Or a eu-phon-i-um
Brimful of good beer is more welcome to
some
Than many a symphony concert we hear,
So long as there’s plenty of beer.”
“Ai feel for you gents,” said the barmaid;
“No schooners, Ai know, is no joke;
It seems the machine where they are made
In some way or other got broke;
Ai’m sorrai Ai haven’t a schooner,
But what can Ai give you instead?”
Then up jumped a fisher for tuna,
And these are the words what he said:
“Beer! Beer! Oceans of beer!
So long as there’s pig’s-ear enough,
A vessel of china,
A skiff or a liner
Will do if the schooners are off;
We’ll proudly set sail
On a sea of old ale,
And cheer when the froth is blown off by
the gale—
We don’t even care if we drown in it, dear,
So long as there’s plenty of beer.”
“There’s only two schooners remaining;
There’s one on the floor for the drips,”
The barmaid continued complaining,
“The other one’s holding mai tips:
Ai’m sorrai Ai haven’t a schooner,
But what can Ai give you instead?”
Well, one had a farm like a Gruner,
And these are the words what he said:
“Beer! Beer! Acres of beer!
So long as it doesn’t go off.
We’re willing to suck it
From straws round a bucket,
Or guzzle it out of a trough;
A tin that held jam
Or the horn of a ram
Will do us as well as the Burrinjuck Dam —
We don’t give a damn what you put it in,
dear,
So long as there’s plenty of beer.”
“Oh deah,” said the barmaid. “Well, reahlly!
Did one of you gents mention beah?
Ai s’pose you are asking sinceahly—
But what are you doing in heah?
Ai told you we haven’t a schooner;
You took it all right, in your way,
But maybe Ai should have said sooner
The words Ai am going to say:
“Beah! Beah! We haven’t no beah!
Ai’m sorrai; the beah has gorn off;
Ai don’t know the reason —
It may be the season.
Or brewahs not making the stuff;
Ai don’t know, Ai feah,
When we’ll have any beah;
It may be tomorrow; it may be next yeah —
A bottle! Why, now you’re insulting me,
deah! —
Ai’m sorrai. We haven’t no beah.”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


A Christmas Suggestion that’s sure to please . . . from
28
shapes
to choose
941
OSS
939
884
ANDREW M°GEE
GIVE HIM A
NIMROD DRYSMOKER
ENGLISH
BRIAR PIPE
The gift of a genuine Nimrod Dry-
smoker Pipe from Andrew M c Gee
is a gift that is long remembered
and appreciated. The experienced
pipe smoker will tell you that the
Nimrod Drysmoker is a milder,
cleaner, cooler pipe because it is
fitted with the famous hygienic
filter (see cut-away illustration).
This keeps the bowl dry and
tobacco burning evenly—ensuring
a smoke that is always flavourful.
And there is no “breaking-in”
period since the carbonised bowl
is already prepared for instant
smoking. Order
your particular
shape straight
or bent—by mail
if you wish, from
Andrew M c Gee.
PRICE
27/6
plus 9d. postage.
ANDREW M C GEE
(Established 1887)
70 Pitt Street, or
1 Castlereagh St., Sydney
We extend to our many clients throughout Australasia the Season’s Greetings and Good Wishes for the New Year
“Raindrop”: Five babies were
mustered for christening at the minister s
monthly visit. Almost blind and nearly
deaf, he was a little weary, but still good-
humored by the time he reached the fifth
child. “What’s
his name?” he
asked the proud
godmother.
“Robyn Mary,”
she answered.
The minister
smiled and
leaned a little
nearer. “What’s
his name?” he
repeated gently.
“Robyn Mary,”
again replied the godmother, a
little louder. Patiently the minister
bent forward. “What’s his name? ’
he questioned yet again. The god-
mother was beginning to fee} like a
parrot. “Robyn Mary,” she almost
shouted, and the bystanders tittered
audibly. The minister leant over the font,
hand cupped to ear and asked for the
fourth time. “What’s his name?” “It’s
not a he —it’s a she, and her name’s
Robyn Mary,” roared the embarrassed
godmother. The minister beamed,
nodded his complete understanding
and proceeded to christen the child
“Robert Mary.”
* * * *
“Villefair”: Fifteen-odd years ago
Hollywood actress Helen Twelvetrees
came to Australia to star in a film. She
opened her publicity campaign by kissing
Sydney’s Lord Mayor. Times have
changed, but the old technique hasn’t!
The current visitor from Hollywood has
done exactly the same thing—and
achieved the same results; publicity, and
plenty of it. A difference is that Sydney’s
Press-boys appear to have become more
childishly amorous than of yore: some
are flagrantly lipstick-happy over kisses
allegedly bestowed on them, and others
seem to think that enough blurb will earn
them the same blissful distinction. Per-
haps I’m getting old, but I can’t see why
a good actress has to kiss old fogys in
the sacred cause of ballyhoo ; nor can
I fathom out how a Pressman kissed or
unkissed can make “Kangaroo” into a
good picture or a bad one. But at least
the incidents prove the truth of a theory
I once heard expounded: “Nature took
millions of years to make a man out of
a monkey; an attractive woman can
reverse the process in five minutes.”
* * * *
“Zake”: The couple came into the pet-
shop and started looking over the dogs.
They hovered for a while between cockers
and foxies, swung to a couple more
breeds and still couldn’t decide. The
woman said she wanted one that was
sharp. “You don’t need to go beyond
these,” said the proprietor, picking up a
mipjature pom. “They’ll let you know
if anyone’s around. I guarantee this one
will make a first-class watchdog.” The
“I better close the window —the neighbors can't stand a bar of him.”
husband eyed it dubiously. “Give us
something you can handle, will you?” he
asked. “That thing would only be a
wrist-watch dog.”
* * * *
“F.S.”: For the uninspiring inscription
“Fifty Years’ Commonwealth of Aus-
tralia,” a star, some trite wheat-stalks and
the stiff academic figure of a farmer sow-
ing seed by a method that died out with
the dodo, Viennese sculptor John W.
Elischer, of Toorak, Melbourne, has been
awarded the Federal Government’s 200-
guinea prize for a jubilee medal. Mote
than a million medals will be struck for
distribution to Australian children.
Judges were J. S. MacDonald, former
director of the National Gallery in Mel-
bourne and now art adviser to the Com-
monwealth, Professor R. C. Mills and
Leslie Bowles, sculptor of the General
Monash memorial. There were 71
entries, and if this was the best it doesn’t
say much for Australian sculpture.
* « * *
“Jasby”; The false impression of
current affairs gained by those who merely
read the headlines has often been com-
mented on, but I had the truth of it
brought home to me twice last week. As
a passenger on the tram turned over
his paper I caught a glimpse of a head-
line; “Brown’s Dramatic Cable.” For
two or three blocks I conjectured upon the
possible contents of the English cricket
captain’s message. Then a newsboy
jumped on the tram and I bought a paper.
Brown hadn’t sent any cable at all. He’d
merely declared at 7 for 68, which the
headline-writer considered a gamble.
Next day I was tricked again. “All
Women to Quit Talking,” I read. With
joy in my heart I looked for further
details of this unbelievable piece of news.
My eyes had again deceived me; it was
Tonking, in French Indo-China, that
women had been ordered to quit.
* * * *
“Melbn”: It is generally accepted that
in the good old days a man could be
transported for the crime of poaching a
rabbit, but how many people know that
persons have been jailed in Melbourne
for pinching books from the Public
Library? An 1869 report of the library
records the names of 12 persons charged
with stealing a book and sentenced to
terms of one to 12 months. If the law
still held good and all the books borrowed
without asking from that institution and
not returned were traced Pentridge would
have an accommodation problem.
* * * *
“Uramao”: There is a Bill-Sykes-and-
his-devoted-Nancy flavor about a recent
case in New Zealand. A man was sentenced
to life imprisonment for the murder of a
Chinaman. His 23-year-old wife was de-
termined to share his fate for better or for
worse, and in order to be near him in his
degradation she stole a pair of shoes. She
was remanded in custory for a week, by
which time she had altered her views.
When she appeared before the magistrate
he gave her some friendly words of ad-
vice, convicted her, granted her 12-
months’ probation and set her at liberty.
# * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: Smell is normally
the most honest of all the senses, provid-
ing few of those illusions common with
the sight, hearing, touch and even taste ;
but there was onei occasion when my
olfactory organ let me down badly. I
had left Molong (N.S.W.) early one
morning driving a buggy hired from the
pub. The rushed breakfast and the sharp
winter air soon produced an aching
hunger inside of me, and it became more
pronounced when my nostrils detected a
pleasant odor, which shortly was
identified as that of grilled steak. I
prodded the horse to a less slow pace, and
dreams of my teeth sinking into juicy
steaks kept the ache within me in order.
But the bush-bound road seemed to keep
on-and-on with no sign of a house,
although the grilled-meat odor became
stronger. Then suddenly the scrub
widened out on each side; there was a
cottage and, immediately beyond half-a-
dozen other buildings, a little township
in the bush. And there were grilled steaks
all right: the ruins of the local butchery,
which had been burnt down with all its
contents, were still smouldering. At close
range the smell, so delightful from afar,
was the disagreeable one of burnt bones.
* * * *
“Loulalo”: Geelong (Vic.) qualifies for
an honorable mention when bike-towns
are under discussion if only for its treat-
ment of the parking problem (B.
22 /11 / ’5O). Strategically placed in
several sections of the main streets are
bike-racks, neat metal affairs invented by
the city engineer, which hold a dozen or
more bikes by the front wheel. Similarly
at the Eastern Beach bathing-pool pro-
vision has been made for bike-parking,
but the device is even simpler—deep
grooves in the long strip of concrete
surfacing the parking area hold the front
wheels firmly and the bikes stand neatly
side by side, easily accessible and yet tidy.
* * * ♦
“Te Wairoa”: Back in the days when
“Book-title” competitions were popular
items at parties, a well-known Wairarapa
(N.Z.) sheepfarmer turned up with the
lapel of his coat ornamented with a;
strand of fine wool, straight from the
shears and a card attached marked
“2s. 6d. a pound.” NO one guessed the
correct answer which was The
Squatter’s Dream, by Rolf Boldrewood.
I wonder what he’d call the present
prices?
* * ♦ ♦
“Mullum”: Whether it is a night-train
from Scotland, or Saturday’s Brisbane
Express, there is always an empty com-
partment somewhere (B. 22/11/ ’5O).
Most troops knew this, and went hunting
for them. Of course there was always
the chance of being chucked out when
the ticket-snipper came along, but some
of these were not bad blokes. Leaving
Melbourne one evening, my mate and 1
decided that eight to a compartment was
six too many, and went looking for one
with a little more space. We found it—
completely empty. The fact that it was
first-class made no difference. We
switched out the light and stretched our-
selves one on each seat, I was wakened
by a hand shaking my shoulder. “This is
where we go back to the crowded com-
partment,” I thought, but I was wrong.
“Five minutes to Aibury, mate,” was the
conductor’s only comment.
* * * *
“Niloc”: In the Essays of Montaigne
there is a chapter headed “Of the
Custom of Wearing Clothes,” Men are
mentioned there who went hatless before
“Hamer” (B. l/11/’5O) first tossed his
bonnet from his crib: —■
King Massinissa cou'.a not be induced,
even in his extreme ola age, to go with his
head covered, were it ever so cold, stormy
or raining. The same is told of the emperor
Severus.
Da Vinci’s fine pen-sketches of warriors
have a frequent absence of headgear that
is striking, considering that in war of
those days some form of lid was gener-
ally useful; in his list of the early hatless
brigade, Montaigne found at least two
that were Army men:
“Caesar,” says Suetonius, “always
marched at the head of his army, and most
often on foot, bareheaded, whether in sun-
shine or rain; and the same is said ot
Hannibal.”
Finally, by quoting Varro, Montaigne
may have put his finger on the real pur-
pose of doing without a hat:
When it was ordained that we should
uncover in the presence of the gods or the
magistracy, it was rather for our healths
sake, and to harden us against the
inclemency of the weather, than upon the
account of reverence.
STRONG POSSIBILITY.
In his red and white so dapper,
With his hood upon his napper,
From the frozen North he’s come this many
a year,
All his jingling bells proclaiming
That the one thing that he’s aiming
At is bringing to the kids a lot of cheer.
In his jovial way and hearty
Has that whiskered, rotund party,
With absolutely no regard for cost,
Down the chimneys come a-steafing
In delightful wonder-dealing.
Now, d’ you think that Santa ever could be
bossed?
Well, it might sound rather drastic,
And the theory quite fantastic
That that good man, as free as heavenly wind
For centuries, should be fettered
Now, his long regime red-lettered
By the need to bow to iron discipline.
Yet this fact you should remember:
That he’s due here this December
To a diff’rent land from what it was of yore.
Now the union boss is slinging
Lots of weight around, and singing
Alien slogans; he’s Australia’s Emperor.
Don’t find it then surprising
If there’ll be some terrorising
To top off some judicious, say, “advice,”
And poor Santa’s beat they’ll picket
If he’s got no union ticket —
Which the union boss will sell him, at a price.
If the union cops him bustling,
Even moderately hustling,
It is then go-slow—or else! That’s how it
goes.
Lots of things they’ll be "demanding”:
“Danger money,” “time for standing”;
And of course a “darg” they quickly will
impose.
Once, he worked like mad for pleasure,
Never bothering about leisure;
That’s out —we’ve got the 40-hour week.
He’ll knock off at three-thirty—
It's no use his going shirty—
With Commos running things he’ll have no
squeak.
He’ll receive, no doubt, a warning
Not to work on Christmas morning,
Even early—that’s a grave industrial crime
Which could easily get him outed,
If not clandestinely “clouted,”
For his union's got a ban on overtime!
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


PLOVER BY NIGHT.
Plover fly over.
Scream your wild song
Through white winds returning,
The night is too long.
Plover fly over,
Carry your pain
Through thin air wailing
Where witches have lain;
Plover, the moon is bright,
Your daemon lover
Shrieks in the silver light—•
Plover fly over.
N - s w - Olga Schlunke.
* * * *
“Dolmetcher”: Some Northern Hemis-
phere novelists who set their plots in the
South Seas have a weird idea of the
value of copra. One I read revolved
around a Bully Hayes-Henry Morgan
type who careered madly in all directions
in a schooner, intent on getting away with
the spoils of a sacked town. Said spoils
consisted of three tons of “copra shell.”
What the villainous hero didn’t do to
retain his pickings from the heroic
villains wasn’t worth doing. Time and
again he was saved only by his marvel-
lous seamanship; this consisted princi-
pally of “shaking out the royals” of his
tight little schooner! He never went as far
as tearing off coconut-husk with his teeth
—incidentally, “Kali’s” 10 seconds for
husking a coconut (B. 8/11/ ’50) is a little
optimistic; it would be a very good boy
who turned out half of 360 husked nuts
an hour—but mayhem, arson, piracy and
murder were committed at the rate of
about two indictable offences per para-
graph. All for the sake of this same
three tons of hybrid vegetable-mollusc.
At the time I digested the tome copra was
fetching £2 5s. in bags—and the bags
cost 15s. per ton —and steamers were
cramming it into their furnaces to save
coal!
* * * *
“The Bunyip”: Long Dan, the hard-
doer of our valley, always laughed at the
idea of catching or being caught by a
gid ; but it’s happened. In her own way,
she’s as rugged as he is, so from the
combination rich results are expected. A
foretaste; they picnicked out at the Nine
Mile the
other Sun-
day ; Sal
cut sand-
wic h e s
while Dan
boiled the
billy, then,
backs to a
river - gum.
they attacked the tucker. The long bloke
took a mighty bite, then clapped one
hand over his mouth and groped for his
tea with the other; tears trickled down
his cheeks, his eyes protruded and his
breath came in wheezy spasms like a
broken-winded nag. After an age of
agony he washed the last crumb down
and addressed his soul-mate; “Did you
put mustard in them sandwiches, Sal?”
“ ’Course I did! ” she retorted. “Plenty S ”
“Aw, that’s orright then,” gasped the
gallant. “I thought I’d bit a ruddy
’ornet! ”
• ♦ ♦ *
“Chuck”: Ever since I’d found the
place I’d promised myself a fishing trip
to Deep Creek gorge. I’d been hunting
strays, and, creeping on the stream, had
seen brown and rainbow in every hole.
Thought of the angler’s paradise cheered
me often, and I nursed my secret through
two summers till opportunity at length
presented itself for the break. Saddling,
I departed after tea, rode all night, and
as dawn showed over the horizon 1
dropped down into Deep Creek. I pulled
up short. A blasted motor-truck! Yes,
and four blokes fishing. “We just came
in for the night,” they told me. “Pulling
out again shortly. Try the right-hand
branch and you’ll get some.” All morn-
ing I fished without result, and at mid-
day made back to try the other branch.
As I neared the junction, squeals and
laughter came from a couple of women
and half-a-dozen kids, and on the flat two
blokes and a caravan were in possession.
The entire afternoon I walked, catching
one small brown, which, being under-
sized, I threw back. The sun was setting
as I saddled my nag, skirted multi-
colored garments draped on bushes, and
rode out along the tyre-tracks. A few
hundred yards, and I met two utilities
loaded down with blokes, women, more
kids and camp-gear that looked like a
fortnight’s stay. The driver in the lead
bawled something. I didn’t hear. Eyes
riveted on the nag’s ears, I rode grimly
out on my long trip home.
**, * *
“Wester”: Next time “Horseless H.”
(B, 6/12/’5O) spots a snake in a house-
tank let him send for Kelly. That’s what
we did at Tapalin one year when we
opened the tank and found five snakes
in it. Kelly sized up the situation, then
got a dozen eggs and boiled
them hard. Into each egg
he threaded a light fishing-
line. Then he lowered the
eggs into the tank, tying the
lines to a veranda-post.
The first snake came up the
line an hour later; within
two hours we had ’em all.
You see, when a snake
swallowed an egg it tried to
swallow the line, too, and
the more line it swallowed
the further up it came.
Simple* isn’t it? But don’t
try it without Kelly. He’s
the only bloke who knows
how to boil the eggs to the
right consistency.
* * *
“Old-timer”: For as long
as anyone could remember
Jemalong Jim kept a couple
of hundred ewes to clean
his fallows, and made pets
of them. It was seriously
claimed that he knew every
one by name, and it was certain that when
he went among them those ewes followed
Jim about like dogs while he talked to
them. Some even displayed open
jealousy if Jim appeared to favor one ewe
more than another, Jim wouldn’t have
a dog near the place, believing that a
man who took the trouble to understand
his sheep and treat them as fellow-
creatures didn’t need to use dogs,
threats or fear to get what he wanted.
But things have changed. Jim seems to
have becdhie rather furtive. When he
goes among the ewes he does it in an
apologetic manner, and the ewes seem to
eye him with a certain amount of disdain.
It was when Wally Brown saw Jim acci-
dentally bump a ewe in the pen and then
apologise to her that the reason came
out. “Aw,” Jemalong said, “it was that
woolbuyer bloke from Winchdalgety’s.
Silly cow got talkin’ here the other week
about the high price of wool, an’ now me
girls reckon they’re worth more t’ the
place than I am.” He paused, eyed the
flock morosely, and added, “Trouble is,
they’re ruddy well right! ”
“Loulalo”: In the week that wool sales
in Geelong (Vic.) broke several world’s
records, the Geelong “Advertiser” dug
back into its files of 75 years ago and
VKfx*
VMS
“ You'd better call it a day.”
came up with reports of the correspond-
ing one for 1875, when the opening sales
were held at the historic Mac’s Hotel.
Then fleece wool realised 13d. (this year
it made 290d.). Commenting on the wool
sales of 1875, the paper then discussed
the merits of crossbred sheep against
pure Merinos, quoting the experiences
of a district breeder to prove its con-
tention that the crossbred is a better pro-
position. In 1873 the breeder started
with “a large flock of pure Merinos”
and shore “seven bales of wool.” The
following year, on the same acreage, he
ran 1500 sheep, some Merino, some
crossbred, and got nine bales. In 1875
“Good old Streamline — he's done it again!"
he reduced the flock to 1400, mainly cross-
breds, and “obtained 14 bales of wool,
nearly the whole of which was sold for
9|d. per pound.” Presuming that a bale
then held an average of 3001 b., the
breeder must have averaged about 31b.
per sheep and reaped a return of 27|d.
per sheep. Today a Merino cuts from
81b. to 121 b. of wool. I wonder how
many ghosts walked in the commercial
room at Mac’s, now incorporated into
one of Geelong’s great wool warehouses,
when the sales were on this week.
* * * *
“Bo”: The favorite for the 12in.
standing-cut event at the bush show had
got through his log with nearly half a
minute to spare. As he lowered his axe
a cove on the edge of the crowd started
banging like mad with a stick into a
kerosene-tin, and he was still whaling
into it when the other competitors
finished. The congratulations being
offered the winner by his relatives and
friends was being drowned by the din
when an official came up and ordered the
offender to cease operations with the re-
buke that “there’s no need to keep it up,
that long.” “There might b'e,” said the
kero.-tin banger. “Why, there was a
holler in the winner’s log big enough to
hold a swarm o’ bees!”
* * * *
“ ’Arvey”; The heat had been terrific
all that summer. The earth was cracked
and flaking ; there wasn’t a blade of grass
for miles around. Excitement mounted
when a small, white cloud floated into
view on the horizon, but old Joe wasn’t
to be fooled. He reckoned he had it all
taped out. “Stands to reason the
drought can’t break at present,” he told
me. “Not with this heat, it can’t. The
rain would evaporate before it hit the
ground.”
••* * «
“Wippegong”: Anyone wanting a
quick, convenient and personally-con-
ducted tour of western N.S.W. could not
do better than to go down to our level-
crossing some night and help old Ben
open and close his gates. He comes on
duty when the mountain trains are still
coming through, but they’re small beer
and draw little comment —merely intro-
ductory traffic. Then a faint clickety-
click in the rails heralds a heavy rumble,
a warning light blinks in Ben’s little cabin,
and we swing the crossing-gates shut for
the Coonamble Mail. She hurtles on
round the bend, we let a couple of cars
through, then I poke up the fire while
Ben lights his pipe, and with “I mind the
time I was shearing along the Martha-
guy” he’s off. Stations around Gil.
and Mendooran get the once-over; we
cut ironbark posts out towards Bidden,
spell beside the superb kurrajongs on the
road to the Warrumbungles, drag a few
cod from holes on the shrinking Castle-
reagh. We’d probably leave the line at
the terminus and set off by foot for
Goodooga, only the Forbes Mail is due
by then, and through she goes. “Good
country, the Lachlan; the safe parts up-
stream, that is,” he muses. “But that
claypan belt below Hillston!” We do
a perish out there, shoot a few duck
around Euabalong on the way back, and
are feeling snug again by the time the
Through Mail is upon us. This is the
real thing! With the wheat-belt behind
us about Narromine we watch for the
sheep-trimmed wilgas around Nyngan, see
the Bogan a banker or a dusty ditch,
according to season, pick it up again at
Charlton siding between Byrock and
Brewarrina, land a couple more cod, and
hit Bre., just in time for the rodeo, with
white and dusky riders from Hebei and
such spots across the border. If by now
Ben has headed along the track of old
jobs down-river towards Bourke the
Cowra Mail will rattle through without
interrupting the flow of narrative ; but by
the time the Mudgee arrives the night
will have turned cool enough to remind
Ben that out along that line was some of
the best fox-shooting a bloke could wish
for —deep, crunchy frosts, steaming
breath, red pelts. We knock off shortly
after that, and the street-lights seem less
real than the river-gums shading the road
that winds back through the years.


Don’t say Gin
® 0 ® say
<r? sr?
IS
u
0
O
IY
9
“Billy T.”; Barney hatched his cross-
bred chicks in midwinter, aiming to have
the cockerels in prime condition for
Christmas. He has ; they’re all booked
except one big beauty —an outstanding
bird which raced away from the rest and
thereby got itself an early reservation for
B.’s own table. I’d listened often to the
praises of this par-
ticularly good-doer,
heard the method
by which he was
>to be cooked, been
invited to estimate
his probable weight
by the fated day—
asked to do every-
thing except share
him; so when of
late a whole week passed without men-
tion of the victim I felt compelled to
inquire. Barney was uncomfortable. “I
dunno,” he grumbled, “but you’d think
that rooster was a flamin’ mind-reader.
Was touching-up the axe the other day
and he leaves off scratching and comes
over, sticks his head on one side and just
looks at me. When I take in the mash
he cranes his neck out and just looks at
me —no running away, no yelling out,
just looks at me. Blast ’im!’ ? Strange
how a sustained, accusing stare can
achieve more than bluster or howls for
mercy. Wouldn’t be surprised if on the
25th Barney sits down to corned beef.
* * * *
“Blime”: Robbie called in on Cockie
Hodge just as Cockie’s new hand drove
the milkers into the yards. “Don’t
bother shuttin’ the sheep-paddock gate
when y’ come through,” the boss told the
hand. “And when y’ turn the cows into
the clover d’rectly, you needn’t put the
rails up.” He walked across to Robbie.
“Won’t your sheep get into the clover,
too?” mentioned the visitor. “Yair, they
will; but I’ll come up an’ put ’em out
later,” explained Cockie. “Just a minute.”
He turned back to the hand, “Oh, an’
Bill, let y’r nag go with the saddle on,
will y’, when y’ finish with him? An’
when y’ feed the calves, if that frightened
one don’t come when y’ first call, just
let ’im go without. He’s gettin’ poor, that
calf. I’ll have t’ come up an’ feed him
after tea.” Cockie paused, and glanced
up the road. “Must be nearly time f’r
young Stanbridge t’ come back from
town,” he mentioned, “Y’ can take a
couple of hours off t’ talk to ’im when he
comes. Bill. Don’t matter what time the
milkin’ gets done.” “You’re too easy
with that bloke you put on,” remarked
Robbie as the farmer rejoined him.
Cookie heaved a long-suffering sigh. “It
ain’t that,” he explained. “He’s goin’ t’
do every one o’ them things anyway, and
a bloke don’t feel quite so mad about it
this way.”
“How y' goin' t' scale 'em?”
“Shamuseen”: Nature employs gaseous
as well as electrical means to engender
luminance in her creatures (B. 29/11/ ’5O).
A striking example of the gas method
lives in N.Q. waters. It bears on both
port and starboard sides a gland which
secretes “luciferin” on one flank and
“luciferase” on the other. Neither gas
is luminous of itself, but in combination
they generate a dazzling light in the wake
of the fish. Nature is a shameless pro-
curess in the manner in which she em-
ploys luminance in the propagation of the
species. Nearly all forms of piscatorial
or insect luminance is sexual in origin
and is shed by the female to attract the
laggard male. At seasonal stages the
Torres Straits waters sometimes glow for
hours with a luminance which is quite
distinct from the spasmodic bursts of
phosphorescence in isolated patches. The
sustained glow comes from millions of
creatures invisible to the naked eye. A
bottle of this particular water will give
off a milky glow in a darkened room.
* * * *
“Lyle”; My uncle, who heard foxes
quite often at night, described the vixen’s
mating-call as similar to that “Kelms”
mentioned as being used to scare in-
truders away from her den (B. 15/11/’5O).
If memory serves, it has also thus been
described by the English nature-writers
Calvert and Frances Pitt —it is some
years since I have read the books in
which they refer to it. I remember Uncle
and Dad once chuckling over the fright
a Sydney friend of Uncle’s had when he
first heard it. The Sydneysider was
taken a shooting trip which involved
camping in the bush. Just as the party
had settled to slumber the first night
there was a bloodcurdling scream from
close by. The Sydney man was on
his feet in double-quick time and reached
for his gun. None of the others stirring,
he called out “Didn’t you hear it? What-
ever is it?” “Lie down, it’s only a vixen’s
love-call,” he was sleepily told. “I’d
have sworn it was a woman being tor-
tured,” he remarked as he settled down
again.
* * * *
“Solitude”: We’d got in about mid-
night, and, the next day being Sunday,
promised ourselves a day off. Late break-
fast, then, with feet on the table and box
tipped back against the wall, I contem-
plated the peaceful hours ahead, while
Seventyfiver fidgeted restlessly. “Might’s
well clean the hut out while we’re doin’
nothin’,” he mentioned. “I’ll do it.” He
eyed the bedlam on the table and began
picking out the traps to chuck in the
corner by the door. Old Blue was there,
and as the first traps descended the weary
mong. eyed the old bloke, recognised the
signs and dragged himself to the com-
fort of the chip-heap and shade of the
axe. “Wish y’d finish up some o’ these
jam-tins, Sol,” Seventyfiver complained
next. “ ’Bout a dozen tins with a scrape
in each.” He transferred them to the
cupboard, dumped a bundle of skins and
box of chaff on top of the traps, then,
the table finished near enough, he turned
to the cupboard. “Flamin’ lot o’ tins,”
he growled. “I dunno. Better put ’em
on the table I s’pose, then we’ll be sure
t’ use ’em up.” A bit later, the cupboard
cleared, he turned to the corner by the
door. “Now, where’n hell’s a man gonna
put them things?” he scowled at the
traps, etc “Why not shove ’em on the
table,” I suggested, “where we won’t fall
over ’em?” “Eh? Yair; good idea.”
A couple of hours after he’d started the
old familiar collection was back on the
table and Blue’s inquiring nose was
showing round the door as Seventyfiver
dropped on to his kero.-box. “Cripes,
this cleanin’s a blasted lot o’ work,” he
growled. “Still, a man’s got t’ do it
occas’nally t’ keep things lookin’ decent,”
* ♦ * *
Jim O’Keeffe: For years Jacka has
been a household pet at Wynnum, Bris-
bane ; just the ordinary droll nuisance
pet maggies usually are, but he is dif-
ferent. Feeling impelled to assist in the
housing shortage, he built a nest. No
eggs came to light, so the owner put two
“You may as Well stop sulking. Number Thirteen. You're NOT getting
a meccano set.”
hen-eggs in the nest and the pied whistler
settled down to the business of hatching,
Two chicks appeared, and Jacka’s be-
wilderment was amazing to behold as
the fluffies rejected the tucker he col-
lected for them. He resorted to force-
feeding, so his owner rescued the chicks
and put them on more normal rations,
The chicks are more than half-grown
now, and to prove it was no fluke Jacka
has done it again. He’s at the force-
feeding stunt again, standing on one leg
and frantically trying to introduce
assorted grubs and whatnot into unwilling
crops—so he loses his family again.
Jf: ♦ ♦ ♦
“Mat’s Mate”: The big fellow had no
time for cakes and sweets ; his idea of a
good feed was a plate of meat and veges,
hot, with lashings of salt, and a good
hunk of plum-duff to follow. So, when
we visited the local show and wandered
into the pavilion he wasn’t at all im-
pressed with the “home-cooking section,
where were displayed various sponges of
various colors, all vividly iced, sweet
biscuits, jeffies, blanc-manges, macaroons
and the rest of it. My eye was taken by
a small tableau of tasties, over which 1
hung with visions of eating my way
through them. At last he got me away
and a thought occurred to me. “Y’
know,” I said, “anyone who can cook
like that deserves a decent prize. What’d
be a real good prize for it, y’ reckon?”
Mat didn’t pause in his stride. “A copy
o’ ‘First Aid in the Home,’ ” he barked.
“Let’s make for the booth.”
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Old Charlie is not
generally a wet-blanket, but somebody’s
remark that Christmas was almost on
us again failed to raise any enthusiasm
from him, “Ar,” he growled, “there’ll be
droves of city blokes overrunnin’ the
place. Wouldn’t be so bad if they’d shut
gates after ’em; but I never see one
that’d shut a gate yet.” Alec looked up
from filing a trap-trigger. “I saw one
once that did,” he said reflectively. “I’d
’ve murdered the coot if I could’ve caught
him.” It was a most unusual motive for
homicide. Everybody was listening as the
little bloke went on: “I could see the big
car about quarter a mile ahead of me
when they pulled up at the first gate.
A little bloke bounced out, swung the
gate open, and the second the car was
through shut it and hopped back in the
bus while it was going. My little ute
was burning up
the dust, but by
the time I’d
undone the
latch, drove
through, hopped
out again and
shut the gate,
then climbed
back behind the wheel I was a long
way behind. But I was gettin’ close
again when they stopped at the next
gate. The little bloke shot out like
a jack-in-the-box, shut the gate
after him before he dashed back
and took the car on the move.
Three times he did that, and each time I
lost ground. The fourth gate was tied-
up with fencing-wire; he even put that
back. I could’ve murdered the coot.
By the time I’d got the wire undone my
bus had stalled and the big car was out
of sight. By cripes, I’d ’ve loved to
had me rifle with me!” Old Charlie
looked amazed. “But they did the right
thing,” he protested. “The stock might’ve
got out if they’d left the gates open for
you.” “The right thing?” the little
trapper stormed. “When they’d pinched
twenty-eight of me traps!”
BY NIGHT TO BUNCO FLAT.
I walked by night to Bungo Flat,
Some thirteen miles away,
Through bare and stony country that
Burned hot by night and day.
It was the hour for fancy’s flight,
Adventures wild and stark
Between the pools of silver light
And places deep and dark.
We were alone, the night and I,
Where silence -crowded all,
Soundless the ground as I went by
Each slope and rise and fall;
But, oh, within that mystery
Of hidden earth and flower,
Great things were happening to me,
Wild deeds filled every hour.
I met Ned Kelly and his gang,
1 called them Dan and Ned,
And when the troopers forward sprang
We filled them full of lead;
The hillocks large were banks to rob—
“ Put up your hands!” I cried.
And while the gang cleaned up the job
I stood on guard outside.
Then came the flying sound of wheels,
And right before my eye
The coach, and, on the horses’ heels,
Bushrangers, and the cry
“Bail up!” and Captain Starlight came—
Oh, golly, could he ride!
And 1 yelled out the Captain’s name,
And rode up by his side.
All down the night the echoes fell
Of horsemen riding fast,
And I gave out a victor’s yell
As the troopers thundered past . . .
While I walked down the silver track,
The moonbeams in my hair,
Hearing the stars and rifles crack
Within the stillness there.
And then I came into the grey
Of dawn that flushed the east,
When came reality of day,
With bird and fly and beast;
My pack, now heavy, oh, to hump,
No outlaws to look at,
Just tree and grass and dismal stump,
And the sun on Bungo Flat.
Victoria.
JAMES HACKSTON.


2:y.-
//
\ >
The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States — Victoria, New South Wales
and Queensland.
Before you go abroad
take this wise precaution • . .
TONSURE complete enjoyment and absence of
, worry by placing the control of your affairs
m the hands of a skilled and trusted Attorney
or Agent. The Union Trustee Company is fully
equipped to act in this capacity. Its services
include the collection of all classes of income
and attention to all kinds of business and personal
matters. It also prepares taxation returns and
arranges and supervises the investment of funds.
Be sure, too, that your Will is in order.
Write, without cost or obligation, for the Company’s
booklet which explains fully these and other
services available. Or call for a confidential inter-
view with one of the Company’s senior officers.
The UNION TRUSTEE
(Incorporated in Victoria)
333 Collins St.,
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Melbourne; 2 O'Connell St.. Sydney; 398-402 Queen
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
(Established 18S5)
St., Brisbane
U.T.6
The WILDCAT COLUMN
National Bank: of Australasia
Dividends. Writ- To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. 24 p.c. ten off. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1942*. 137,290 125,000 10,000 2,290 3,440,627
5 p.c.
1943.. 282,479 250,000 25,000 7,479 3,448,106
5J p.c.
1944.. 290,926 202,500 25,000 3,426 3,451,532
5f p.c.
1945.. 342,362 287,500 50,000 4,862 3,456,394
6 p.c.
1946.. 354,564 300,000 50,000 4,564 3,460,958
1947.. 421,952 351,781 65,000 5,171 3,466,129
Surplus absorption Q.N. Bank,
£893,991 4,360,120
From inner reserves, £806,009 .. 5,160,129
Q.N. p. and 1. balance, £48,366.. 5,214,495
National and Subsidiary.
p.c.
1948.. 558,597 437,192 65,000 56,405 5,270,900
7 p.c.
1949.. 540,173 470,822 65,000 4,351 5,275,251
1960.. 594,634 470,822 100,000 23,812 5,299,003
* Six months.
Australia is suffering from “economic
indigestion arising from an unrestricted
attempt on the part of industry, business
and State enterprise to expand, and from
an intense overseas demand for our
major export commodities,” chairman
K, D. Giddy says. The remedy he sug-
gests is “a measure of economic dis-
cipline,” which is long overdue.
When a country is faced with a threat
of serious economic disequilibrium as a
result of developments in the world and
the domestic economic situation, it can
adopt one of two main remedies. It can
adjust its exchange rate in the hope of
neutralising the impact of changes in the
world-price structure, or it can undertake
a drastic overhaul of its domestic economy
and financial policies with the object of
neutralising the internal pressures imposed
by both external and internal events.
Australia chose to adopt the second
course, and the Government is pursuing
a number of appropriate measures.
However, until the present international
situation is resolved, the whole question
of domestic policy and the measures to
implement it necessarily remain fluid.
If present international developments
are peacefully resolved, as everybody
devoutly hopes, appearances are that there
will be renewed emphasis on rearmament
the world over. One result would be in-
creased demand for and expenditure
upon real resources. The consequent in-
flationary stimulus could not be expected
to be cancelled out by the disinflationary
pressure exerted by the rising produc-
tivity of industry—our present resources
are sufficient to give production a big
lift if the coal, steel, and power bottle-
necks, and the disruptive tactics of certain
elements of labor, can be overcome.
Whether major budgetary changes and
stronger disinflationary measures than
have been warranted to date will ulti-
mately have to be adopted depends, of
course, upon developments. Meanwhile,
the possibility of having to re-gear public
policy to the capacity of the economy
as a whole is something that cannot be
disregarded.
In co-operation with the Common-
wealth Bank, and in conformity with its
directives, the private trading banks have
followed a policy designed to curb infla-
tion. The technique has been close
control of the volume, nature and direc-
tion of advances and the freezing of
deposits on “special” account with the
Commonwealth Bank, Now that Korea
has altered the economic stresses and
strains everywhere, a still more selective
credit policy is to be pursued.
“Finance for capital expenditure
and permanent non-fluctuating work-
ing requirements should be obtained
outside the banking system, leaving
only fluctuating operating require-
ments to be provided by bank
overdraft.” Some modifications are to
be made where the social need is especially
urgent, or where facilities for finance
outside the banking system are not
readily available. Broadly, the aim is to
prevent overexpansion of business
activity, spurred by new inflationary pres-
sures, being financed on overdraft.
Last term the enterprising National and
its subsidiary, the Q.N. Bank (taken over
a couple of years ago), gathered an extra
£33,356,249 of deposits, etc., and increased
balances due to other banks at Sept. 30
by £16,363,930:
National and Subsidiary.
„ , 1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital.. £6,726,025 £6,726,025 £6,720,025
Notes . . . . 47,491 47,491 47.490
Deposits, etc. 132,056,193 150,086,690 188,442,839
Due other banks 2,314,683 3,296,964 19,660,894
Liquids ~ 80,760,002 87,713,523 113,296,090
Advances .. 62,919,265 73,868,556 95,229,749
Other assets . . 914,391 1,432,813 3,942,977
Premises . . 2,057,043 2,652,839 2,942,906
The growth in advances was £21,361,193
and in low-interest-bearing liquids
£25,582,567. The amount frozen on
“special” accounts at 10s. p.c. interest
was £79,487,000 (up £22,500,000), equal
to 43.3 p.c. of deposits, etc. The figures
suggest the co. might have done a little
borrowing from the Commonwealth
Bank to assist specially deserving clients.
The year’s profit increased by £54,461,
reaching £594,634, equal to 8.8 p.c. on
capital, or 4.9 p.c. on shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves combined). The
div. was kept at 7 p.c., £lOO,OOO (up
£35,000) was written off premises, and
the £23,812 that remained raised visible
reserves to £5,299,063. Prospects of
further improvement in earnings are en-
couraging, but costs are likely to gobble
most of the gains.
At 41s. 6d. (345. a year ago), the f,-p.
pound shares return 3.3 p.c. on a 7 p.c.
div. basis. Net tangible cover (book-
value) is 345. 2d.
United Insurance Co.
„ . To Re- Re-
oept.. Surplus. Dividends. serves. serves.
L £ £ £
1944.. 66,276 10 p.c. = 45,000 }
W/o premises, £lO,OOO . . J
11,276 569,746
1945.. 67,397 10 p.e. = 45,000 ]
To staff fund, £5OOO .. f
W/o premises, £lO,OOO .. j
7,397 577,143
1946.. 70,232 10 p.c. = 45,000)
To staff fund, £5OOO .. [■
_W/o premises, £lO,OOO ..J
10,232 587,375
1947.. 75,159 10 p.e. = 45,000 j
To staff fund, £5OOO .. j-
W/o premises, £lO,OOO . . j
15,159 602.534
1948.. 92,505 12} p.c. = 56,250 [
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. (
26,255 628,789
Add reserve adjustments, £192,251.. 821,040
1949. .114,046 12J p.e. = 50,250 7
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. )
47,796 868,836
1950. .203,324 12£ p.c. = 56,250 /
To staff fund. £lO,OOO .. J
137,074 1,005,910
Except for an office in London, mainly
concerned with marine business, the
activities of this solidly-established fire,
marine and accident business are con-
fined to Australia and New Zealand.
Since the war the management has put
renewed vigor into the hunt for business,
a number of new branches have been
opened, net premium income has trebled
over the last five years, a tight hold has
been kept upon controllable outgoings,
and surplus earnings have shown marked
improvement.
To further underpin its already
strong financial structure and wide
goodwill (of which no account is
taken in the books), those on the register
at Dec. 15 are to be offered 10,000 new
£lO shares to be called to £5 each at par,
one for nine. The issue will raise paid
capital to £500,000 in 100,000 £lO shares
paid to £5 each, on which 124- p.c. would
call for £62,500, oi approximately half
last term’s net earnings after allowing for
unexpired risks on the usually-accepted
40 p.c. basis.
In the market, where sound insurance
scrip has always ranked high as an in-
vestment, the £5-paid shares advanced
from £22 10s, a couple of months ago to
£24 10s. last weekend. After exercising
the rights and allowing for brokerage, the
net price at the higher figure is
£22 11s. 3d., giving an immediate return
of only 2.8 p.c. on a 12} p.c. div, basis.
Including the new issue, net tangible
cover (book-value) is £l5 Is. 2d. a share.
Helped by the inflationary boom, which
has bumped up marine figures; and trade
inventories, and by the growth of home
and other construction, the lengthening
of payrolls and increase in the number
of motor-vehicles on the road, net pre-
miums income advanced by £196,517 last
term;
Net Pre- Ex- Loss Expense
miums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1944.. 353,561 127,318 185,746* 36.1 p.c. 52.6 p.c.
1945.. 366,177 125,132 199,084* 34.2 „ 54.4 „
1946.. 404,324 141,557 228,6291 35.0 „ 56.6 „
1947.. 487,569 192,706 256,189* 39.5 „ 52.6
1948.. 618,284 247,832 313,504 40.0 „ 50.7 „
1949.. 903,160 329,749 496,990 36.5 „ 55.0
1950. 1,099,677 420,570 515,850 38.2 ~ 40.9 „
* After deducting Investment income taxation.
Another pleasing feature is that the bigger
business was written at no less than
£8 2s. p.c. lower cost. The still-moderate
loss rate was 345. p.c, higher, due largely
to the unsatisfactory nature of motor-
vehicle insurance (premium rates have
been increased since the close of accounts)
and the continued; high rate of cargo
pilferage in the ports.
The gross underwriting surplus was
£163,257 (up £86,836), and interest and
rents turned in £40,067 (up £2442), mak-
ing total surplus from all sources £203,324
(up £89,278). Allowing 40 p.c. for un-
expired risks, the net underwriting surplus
would be £84,650, making the net return
from all sources £124,717, equal to 24.9
p.c. on a half-million of capital—l 6.9 p.c.
from underwriting and 8 p.c. from in-
vestments.
The protectipn for both policyholders
and shareholders is in this form:
„ , 1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital.. £450,000 £450,000 £450,000 £450,000
Creditors* .. 405,309 438,548 308,066 288.876
Government
securities .. 652,850 652,850 626,740 589,915
Cash, book
debts, etc... 638,602 669,451 682,691 692,284
Debentures .. 40,000 40,000 40,000 40,000
Mortgages .. 66,245 99,811 160,523 352,143
Premises .. 102,645 98,975 155,073 232,287
* Including taxation, etc.
Owing to the low return from Govern-
ment paper, the board is now giving more
attention to mortgages (up £191,620 last
term), which for 18.4 p.c. of
total assets at Sept. 30 as against 4.4 p.c.
three years ago. Government securities
(down £36,825) and cash, book debts, etc.
(up £9593) together still account for
over 67 p.c, of the balance-sheet total.
Ready Mixed Concrete, Ltd.
(and Subsidiaries)
Pref. Pref. Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. 5i p.c. r Ord. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1947.. 16,821 600 550 17,076*
1948.. 17,901 600 550 5 p.c. = 13,124 20,708*
Sale of property, £14,441 .. .. 35,144
Intangibles written off, £20,981 .. 14,413
6 p.c.
1949.. 16,093 600 600 6 „ „ 15,750 13,356
7 p.c.
1950.. 29,919* 600 700 7 „ „ 18,375 23,600
* Subject to intangibles £20,981. f After allowing
for provision for tax £15,000 —taxes paid in 1948
£3072, 1949 £6928.
This industrial group—parent holding
co. and six subsidiaries —manufactures
cement at central plants, and, with fleets
of agitator trucks, delivers the stuff ready
for immediate use on the job within a
couple of hours from the time of mixing.
Though the co. and its offshoots haven’t
yet had a chance to get into full stride,
encouraging progress has been made, and
prospects look as bright as anything of
the kind can look under existing condi-
tions. Similar businesses in U.S. have
operated very successfully since long be-
fore World War 11.
The parent was formed at Sydney in
July, 1939, and operated as a trading co.
until 1945, when the business, which had
spread throughout the three Eastern
States and South Aus., was passed to the
various subsidiaries. First war and then
post-war shortages of cement, power,
labor and equipment have stood in the
way of maximum output and robust earn-
ings. Paid capital, which was £BO,OOO in
1944, grew to £280,000 in 1946, and has
remained steady since. It consists of
7500 8 p.c. A and 10,000 sjr p.c. B prefs.
and 262,500 ords. The A and B shares
enjoy the right to advance point for
point with the ords. from 8 p.c. to 10 p.c.
and from 5j p.c. to 8 p.c. respectively.
The struggle has been, and still is, one
between costs and turnover, the latter
being retarded by shortage of cement, etc.
The ords. got 5 p.c. for each of the three
years to 1944, followed by 2\ p.c. in
1945 ; they were shown an empty basket
in 1946 and 1947, and then got 5, 6 and
7 p.c. for the three years to the close
of last accounts, when they could see
the whole of their capital intact and
£23,600 besides.
Demand ran ahead of output at all
centres last term, and a contract at Cool-
angatta (Q.) was completed at a satis-
factory profit. After allowing a generous
£31,384 (up £7789) for depreciation and
£15,000 for the taxgatherer, net earnings
took a leap of £13,826, reaching £29,919.
lhat covered the pref. requirements and
10.9 p.c. on ord. capital compared with
5.7 p.c. for the previous term. Additions
made to plant and equipment during the
year are expected to reduce operating
costs, and satisfactory results are expected
to show up at next balance, the board
says.
The financial position improved:
T _ 1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital £280,000 £280,000 £280,000
Outside interests ~ so so 30
Creditors, etc.*.. .. 115,978 61,903 75,513
i'ax provision .. .. 9,034 20.462
Final divs 7,712 8,500 11.200
Fixed assets .. .. 324,981 278,809 274,568
Stocks 21,834 20,334 23.356
Book debts .. .. 58,744 68,516 88,354
Cash 1,005 5,164 24.347
Intangibles .. .. 20,931 —j
* Includes overdraft.
Growths of £19,838 in debtors’ balances
and of £3022 in stocks were accompanied
by an addition of only £13,610 to the out-
side debt. The improvement in the more-
or-less liquid surplus (£28,882) was
£14,255. Attention is being given to ex-
tension of activities, for which more share
capital may be required.
The ords. at 31s. (21s. 6d. a year ago)
return 4.5 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis, 5.1
p.c. if it rises to 8 p.c. The A prefs. at
28s. and the Bs at 225. yield 5.7 p.c. and
6.3 p.c. respectively on the basis of last
term’s distribution. Net tangible cover is
£4O 9s. 7d. As, £29 12s. 2d. Bs and
21s. lOd. ords.
Mt. Isa, Ltd. (Q.)
■Net To £ e . £ e .
June, Profit.f f Dividend v serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
-, 7 n °J 980 Nil 76,980 105,563
45.. 126,236 Nil 126,236 231,799
46 ‘ 149,410 Nil 149,410 381,209
, Share premiums, £139,338 .. .. 520,547
47.. 502,585 10 p.c. = 194,206 308,379 828,926
4 °- 872,921. 17 „ „ 755,779 117,142 946,068
49 • ■ 1,457,337 25 „ ~1,157,652 299,685 1,245,753
Share premiums, £184,852 .. .. 1,430,605
Cost debenture redemption, £107,829 1,322,776
50.. 878,587 15 p.c. = 736,183 142,404 1,465,180
t After deducting debenture interest and allowing
for depreciation.
The sharp drop of £578,750 in last
term’s profit was due to: (1) lower
average metal prices, especially for lead,
(2) drop in mill throughput and conse-
quent smaller metal production, and (3)
sharp rise in mining, milling and other
costs. The drop in throughput followed
the nation-wide coal strike, which held
up production at mine, mill and smelter
for about seven weeks. The board figured
the year’s profit at £770,758, but that
was after charging £107,829 paid in
premiums on redemption of debentures
against the year’s earnings.
Actual profit earned was therefore
£878,587, equal to 17.9 p.c. on increased
capital, compared with 32.7 p.c. and 19.6
p.c. for the two preceding years. The
profit was struck after allowing for de-
benture interest (£125,314, down £27,172),
depreciation (unchanged at £400,000),
taxation (£520,000, down £510,000) and
prospecting (£22,056, down £11,128). The
div. dropped from 25 p.c. to 15 p.c.,
making average distribution over the last
four years 16.7 p.c. The preceding 22
years were dry ones, the story being one
of anaemic metal markets, rising costs
and other troubles.
For the year to June 30 last average
London price per ton for lead was


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES.
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. UAOXEY, Chairman; F. W, Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred 8. White.
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. 8. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
’Phone: B.W. 8361. 126 Pitt Street, Sydney
Branches in All States.
TERMS FINANCE LIMITED
(Incorporated under the Companies Act 1936 of the State of New South Wales.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - - £500,000
Divided into 2,000,000 Shares of 5/- each
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
OF AN ISSUE AT PAR OF 500,000 SHARES OF 5/- EACH
AS FOLLOWS:—
100.000 Ordinary Shares of 5/- each at par to be subscribed
for by the Directors payable 1/- per share applica-
tion and allotment money and the Balance by calls
as and when required within a period of three years
from allotment £33,000
400.000 Ordinary Shares of 5/- each at par are now offered
for public subscription payable 1/- per share appli-
cation and allotment money and the Balance by
calls of not more than 1/- per share per month 100.000
1,300,000 Shares of 5/- each are held in Reserve 315,000
3,000,000 £500,000
OBJECT OF THE PRESENT ISSUE
The proceeds of the present issue of capital are to enable the Company to
accept the large volume of hire purchase finance business offering.
The Company Managers already control upwards of £500,000 of investment
in this field, and through their established connections there is offering a large
volume of business for which their present lending resources are inadequate.
The experience of the Company Managers in this field of investment is that
the investment is particularly stable, returning even in the depression and war
years not less than 10% on Capital.
DIVIDEND POLICY
It is proposed to prepare quarterly accounts and to pay dividends quarterly.
STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING
Application will be made as soon as practicable for listing on the Sydney
Stock Exchange and the Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
DIRECTORS
JOHN JAMES THOMAS, 85 Morton Street, Wollstonecraft, Manager.
DUDLEY HAROLD TURNBULL, 59 Mary Street, Longueville, Manager.
BRUCE MORTON THOMAS, 4 Gourlay Avenue, Balgowlah, Secretary.
JAMES HUNTLEY KNOX, 17 Lodge Road, Cremorne,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
WARREN WALLACE ALDERTON, 15 Doohat Avenue, North Sydney,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
MANAGERS OF THE COMPANY
JAMES HUNTLEY KNOX, 17 Lodge Road, Cremorne,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.)
WARREN WALLACE ALDERTON, 15 Doohat Avenue, North Sydney,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.)
UNDERWRITING BROKER
The whole of the issue of 400,000 Ordinary Shares of 5/- each has been
underwritten by:—
GORDON D. WHARTON, Member of the Sydney Stock Exchange,
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
(This is an abridgement of the full prospectus and the requirements of Section
137 of the Companies Act, 1936, of the State of New South Wales, have not
been fully complied with.
The minimum amount to be raised by the issue is £125,000.
Applications will be received only on the forms of application included with
the full prospectus which are available from Members of Recognised Stock
Exchanges.)
IXL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:—
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt,
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
, LIMITED.
An Australian Institution. Established 1562.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
E. R. KNOX (Chairman). F. W. HIXSON, ORWELL PHILLIPS,
G. F. HUGHES, R. J. VICARS, J. W. DUNLOP.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
/
Va
?sp* I
y&% If
*
*•4.
I
'3T
ft
ja
w&WZ:
■**t
:m
%
fbS
p*
R
&
WH»
Soul*
V
»«
xM
pitct-
@i'Cte*'
CV ]RBt NC 7
or
TR ALtAN
AViS
V>OViND s
—»-i rSTfta^
•. ; uS
Bank of Australasia
Travellers’ Cheques
ENJOY the convenience and safety of Bank of Australasia
Travellers’ Cheques which provide you with ready cash
anywhere and at any time, yet are valueless without your
authority. You can obtain these cheques in denominations
of £l, £2, £5, and £lO and cash them readily at banks,
hotels, business houses, and travel agencies. Don’t run the
risk of loss or theft of money whilst holidaying or
travelling. Enquire about this simple, convenient method
at any branch of the Bank.
Established 1835
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
Branches throughout Australia, New Zealand and in London*
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
BA2I-16 __
The “ Curvilinear ” Concentrating Table
Send for
Bulletin
and Price
f
Simple
and
lieliable
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a
demonstration. Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery,
including stamp batteries, amalgamating tables, magnetic ore
separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting valves, water- and oil-
filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories. Electric
motors and Ellison switch gear.
Guthridge Pty. Limited,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
mm
jm
...accuUm
md idnm
Mddenfy
The “PERFECT POLICY” of the Metropolitan provides
a regular income during incapacitation whether, from
accident or specified illness —and in addition provides all
the benefits of an ordinary Endowment Assurance.
ANNUAL BONUS ADDITIONS.
AUSTRALIAN
ASSURANCE COMPANY ITD'
HUNTER. AND BUO-M STREETS.SYDNEY*
£S96 3s. 9d. (down £SIO 17s.
lOd.) and for zinc £SB6 12s. 4d.
(down £S6 7s. 10d.). Actual
prices realised aren’t mentioned,
but shipping difficulties stood in
the way of the co. marketing to
the best advantage.
The mill treated 531,810 tons
(down 79,460 tons) ore assaying
7.5 p.c. lead, 7.2 p.c. zinc and
5.50 z. silver for the following
concentrates;
, Assay ,
Silver, Lead, Zinc,
Concentrates— Tons. Oz. p.c. p.c.
Lead, ’49.. 106,948 25.5 36.1 9.1
’50.. 94,320 25.7 35.9 9.1
Zinc, ’49.. 46,529 3.0 2.6 51.4
’50.. 41,743 2.4 1.7 50.8
Sulphur-dioxide treatment of
the flotation feed brought
further marked improvement in
recoveries. The figures were
84.7 p.c. lead, 55.6 p.c. zinc and
82.2 p.c. silver, as against 73.2
p.c., 47.6 p.c. and 69.7 p.c.
respectively in 1948.
Including small quantities of
fluxing and purchased ores, total
metal content of the mill-feed
was:
Blister
June Silver, Lead, Copper, Zinc,
30, Oz. Tons. Tons. Tons.
1949. .2,886,410 38,547 497 23.907
1950. .2,583,460 33,600 582 21.214
Operating costs were 16.95.
heavier at 71.35. per ton ore,
due mainly to wage-lifts and the
drop in throughput. The figure
includes cost of delivery to
ship’s hold at Townsville, but
excludes the lead bonus, £668,833
(down £208,544), equal to
245. lOd. per ton crude ore as
against 28s. 2d. a ton for the
previous year.
Ore reserves at June 30 were:
, —i —Assay
Pb, Zn, Ag,
Lead-Zinc— Tons. p.c. p.c. Oz.
Sulphides . . 8,898,768 8.8 7.4 6.6
Carbonates.. 270,930 9.1 4.0
Cu,
Copper—• p.c.
Sulphides . . 2,892,930 4.02
Oxides .. 58,734 7.90 -
A lot more payable stuff is
known to exist outside mea-
sured limits, but shortage of
labor has stood in the way of
prospecting. The co. has given
up the hunt for coal in the
Oxley Creek area and has re-
linquished its authority to pros-
pect 1860 acres north of its
main Isa leases.
Satisfactory over-all progress
is reported in erection of the big
new copper plant, despite short-
ages of labor and materials,
especially steel, which is being
imported. Important sections of
the new mill are not expected to
be on the site before mid-1951.
When complete this plant is
scheduled to handle 30,000 tons
of high-grade copper sulphides
for 1500 tons blister a month.
The year’s outlay on fixed
assets was £1,002,806, largely on
account of the copper project:
1949. 1950.
Paid capital .. £4,445,757 £4,907,885
Reserves .. . . 1,245,753 1,465,180
Depreciation res... 1,260,098 1,660,097
Debentures .. 2,149,526 1,539,788
Creditors! . . 2,039,733 1,712,244
Mines and plant,
at cost . . . . 5,428,393 6,431,199
Stocks* . . . . 1,687,384 2,380.372
Debtors 250,847 444.522
Bonds, cash, etc... 3,774,243 2,029,101
* Includes products on hand, f Includes
final div.
To meet the outlay and carry
an extra £693,988 of stocks and
£193,675 of book debts the
board drew upon cash, etc., for
£1,745,142. The growth in capi-
tal and reduction in the deben-
ture debt are interrelated.
Prospects of a better showing
at next balance are encourag-
ing. London average for lead
and zinc for the four months to
end October were £Blll Bs. and
£Bll2 4s. respectively. Last
week the figure for lead reached
£8137 10s. and for zinc £Bl5l.
However, the lead bonus and
sharp rise in costs, following the
recent lift in the basic-wage, will
absorb much of the gain.
Actual and potential defence
demand has placed both metals
in a strong market position. Be-
cause the British Government
has restricted supplies of virgin
zinc to nine-tenths of 1949 pur-
chases, the price of zinc has
risen faster than the price of
lead,
Co.’s pound shares, which
fluctuated between 375. and
445. 9d. since the beginning of
1950, sold at 40s. 6d. last week,
giving an immediate return of
7.4 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. basis.


Have you ever
thought of
Life Assurance
the easy
A.C.A. way?
/
Jki
Unlike many other things, you can’t safely postpone
securing Life Assurance . . . Ask the A.C.A. representative
to tell you about A.C.A. GOOD POLICIES that will
protect your home, your wife and your family. Be guided
by his principles of Truth and Simplicity, his friendliness
and above all his ability to advise you on the most suitable
Policy to fit your individual requirements.
HERE ARE DETAILS OF AN A.C.A. POLICY ANY
MAN COULD BE PROUD OF
Mr. X took a whole of Life Policy for £l,OOO with family protection
for a 20-year term. He died after paying the first premium.
A.C.A. immediately paid his widow £l5O plus bonuses and is
paying £l3 per month for 19 years. In the 20th year, a cheque
for £l,OOO will be handed over, a total of £4,114 being paid for
the premium of £34/1716.
j DON’T DELAY POST TODAY
The Manager,
Australasian Catholic Assurance Co. Ltd.,
60 King Street, Sydney. }
Would you please supply me with further details of A.C.A. I
Good Policies. 1
Name I
Address
AUSTRALASIAN CATHOLIC
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
(.Incorporated in New South Wales')
HEAD OFFICE: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BX 2165.
Branches in MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH,
NEWCASTLE, LISMORE and TAMWORTH.
Business. Rollery. etc.
Drastic Remedy Needed
There is nothing very certain
or satisfactory in Australia’s
economic outlook at the present
time. Production of essential
raw materials continues to lag,
coal being most noticeably short.
All attempts to accelerate out-
put have failed, and prospects
for this Christmas-holiday sea-
son look worse than last.
Though the year may end show-
ing a record output of coal, it is
more certain that, whatever the
production, the nation’s short-
ages during the year were
greater than they have ever been.
Communist influence in the
coal industry is as strong as ever,
and the McGirr end of joint
coal control in N. S. Wales can-
not be relied upon. Not that the
Commonwealth Government has
shown much overt interest in
this vital activity, for that
matter. Its attitude seems best
indicated by its policy of im-
porting coal. Things might
have been different, of course,
had the anti-Red legislation got
off to a flying start. As it is, it
is still held up before the High
Court, where its legality is
questioned.
The Federal Budget had no
anti-inflation merits of a mone-
tary character, and elsewhere
there seems to be no movement
towards greater productivity per
man. Steel output is still far
below the record levels estab-
lished during war-time under
great physical difficulties, and
that greater productivity of capi-
tal goods so essential to a stable
economy is not being achieved.
The ill-advised £l-a-week in-
crease in the basic-wage will add
to inflationary pressures through
higher costs and greater spend-
ing-power, and there will be an
even greater impetus given by
the award regarding female
wage-rates.
Too many concessions are
being made to expediency by
Governments and other bodies.
Where a Communist union
makes a demand for something
unreasonable it is not the
slightest use of any authority
granting the demand. If ap-
peasement were ever worse than
useless, it is where militant
union demands are concerned.
There is no satisfying the de-
mands of Communist unions.
No wages however high, or con-
ditions however good, would
satisfy those Communists in
charge of key unions. Their
whole objective is to disrupt the
economy of countries opposed
to the yoke of Soviet Russia.
Where higher wages are given
in good faith at the behest of
Communist - led unions they
often cause immediate economic
disruption and give rise to
further claims for more high
wages. The damage concessions
of this sort do has a compound-
ing effect.
The 40-hour week granted by
the Commonwealth Arbitration
Court was ill-advised and un-
justified on economic grounds.
This country should be working
a 48-hour week in order to get
necessary work done and to
counter inflation. Yet the 40-
hour week luxury has been
accepted without gratitude by
the unions most concerned with
key production.
Politically, too, there seems
to be a great deal of miscon-
ception about what is good for
the community and what the
community wants. * Roy
Morgan’s Australian Gallup
Poll recently conducted an in-
quiry into the question of
whether the people preferred
the present inflationary set-up,
with overfull employment, to a
state of affairs in which wages
and prices would be steady,
goods and houses plentiful, but
with jobs sometimes hard to get.
Out of 1550 people asked, 81 per
cent, plumped for stable wages
and prices with jobs harder to
get but goods and houses easier.
And that is something which
appears to fly in the face of all
political thinking of the present
day—even Liberal-party think-
ing. Canberra somehow seems
to be mesmerised by the policy
“ Upholst'ry’s rather shabby."
and criticisms of the lowest
common denominators of
Federal politics today—Eddi©
Ward and Dan Curtin.
Just as there has been a tend-
ency to feel, in the past, that
there was something vaguely dis-
creditable about the British Em-
pire, so today there is a reluct-
ance on the part of politicians
to face the fact that this coun-
try cannot progress—in fact, it
faces disaster—unless the com-
munity adopts the principle of
a fair day’s work for a fair day’s
pay. There is a mental fog of
economic “equality” throughout
the land and a host of other
false assumptions.
The gradual dissolution of the
British Empire has been a
tragedy to most of the people
“freed” from British rule, and
even U.S. meddlers in British
foreign policy are alarmed at the
result. Brutal Russia is stepping
in where benevolently autocratic
Britain went out. And in Aus-
tralian trade-unionism the power
of the “boss” is being usurped
by the Communist tyrant. The
worker is becoming afraid of
his Communist standover-man,
and is looking to the boss or
the Government to do something
about it. Even the wage-plug
who has been a sucker for ever-
higher wages regardless of the
ultimate cost to himself seems at
present to be receptive to any
bold form of leadership that Will
deal with real problems in a
straightforward way.
Certain it is that we have not,
so far, turned industrial Aus-
tralia on to a safe course. We
are Wallowing along at the
mercy of all currents of politi-
cal and trade-union expediency.
Of course “Labor” opposition to
the Anti-Red Bill has prevented
the Federal Government getting
anywhere with a major matter
of national policy. Effective
dealing with the Communists
would solve many problems, but
it should not be forgotten that
we have problems other than
Communism. And many of
them have to do with ourselves.
There are people in Australia so
muddle-headed that they still
seek higher wagds and shorter
working hours and yet expect to
have a high living standard.
Their numbers are perhaps fewer
than they were, though they are
a noisy and politically influential
section. But they are influential
mainly because politicians have
chosen to make them so.
The daily Press of Australia
has sunk to a low level. It has
little value as a medium of pub-
lic instruction. It has en-
couraged public crazes, however
pernicious, and has kept its ear
to the ground rather than its
eye on a course beneficial to the
community.
We have to realise that this
country needs coal vitally, and
that no body of people can be
allowed to stand in the way of
our getting coal. The mines do
not belong to the miners, and
the so-called “rights” of miners
are not sacrosanct where miners
insist on breaking the law. The
same applies to any other body,
employee or employer, that
stands in the way of the nation’s
progress. Surely there is enough
rugged commonsense left in this
young country to see what is
wanted and to do something
about it, even if it means rough
handling of the industrial dogma
that everyone seems to have
swallowed almost automatically
for many years too long!
Puri and Vailala
“Lemon”: That the failure of
Australian Petroleum to strike
oil, up to the present, is not
regarded with pessimism by that
company is evident from the
statement made by its general
manager at the beginning of this
month in Melbourne.
To date the co. has drilled on
five carefully-chosen locations —
Kariava, Oroi, Upoia, Hohoro
and Wana. The first four wells
mentioned have been aban-
doned ; Wana has now reached
a depth of over 9000 ft. without
commercial success, but it is
being carried to maximum depth
to obtain as much information
as possible on the stratigraphy
of the Delta.
All work has progressed satis-
factorily and according to
schedules planned a few months
ago by the co.’s overseas ad-
visers in London and New York.
New work is being planned so
that available crews and rigs
can be employed without inter-
ruption, and preliminary opera-
tions, such as the prefabrication
of staff quarters, is being under-
taken so that sites can be quickly
established when they are
selected.
To this end two contract
seismic parties are examining the
Delta area. A “refraction” party
is running a regional survey
between the Puri oil-seepage
area, some 50 miles inland, and
Urama Island, in the outer
Delta, while a “reflection” party
will follow up and complete this
work by the detailed mapping of
structural features regarded as
favorable from the results of
the reconnaissance refraction
seismic survey. This recently-
arrived reflection party is at _
present perfecting a survey tech-
nique best suited to local condi-
tions.
With all this activity in the
Delta, the Vailala River area —
which was first responsible for
drawing attention to commer-
cial oil possibilities in Papua in
1912 (B. 28/6/’5O) —is not being
neglected. Foundations for a
second well at Hohoro are
ready, and the derrick, which did
such good work at Kariava, is
in course of erection. It is
hoped that the heaving mud-
stone, encountered in No. 1 well
at Hohoro (B. 23/8/’5O), will
not prove so troublesome at the
new site, but no chances are
being taken, and large stocks of
barytes are available, if required.
Drilling is expected to com-
mence in January.
Any oil venture in unproved
territory is always a gamble —
and that fact has often been
emphasised in these columns —
but the A.P. Co. is taking every
possible measure to avoid waste-
ful expenditure of its share-
holders’ money and to reach
commercial oil, if such exists in
Papua. The co. certainly de-
serves success.
National Development
Present programmes for de-
velopment of our national re-
sources are unprecedented in the
history of the country. The
vastness of our land and the
wide dispersion of our cities and
population impose a necessary
largeness on all projects aimed to
exploit fully the national wealth.
The Department of National
Development lists the projects
already begun, or at an advanced
stage of planning, in a recent
publication under headings of
power and fuel, transport, water-
conservation and land develop-
ment and forestry. In all, 80
projects are listed, and are to be
effected by Federal or State
Governments.
In N.S.W. they include the
£225-million Snowy Mountains
hydroelectric and irrigation
scheme estimated to take 20
years to complete. Lake
Illawarra steam-power station to
cost £4,500,000, Hunter River
flood-contrql and conservation
scheme estimated to cost
£13,500,000, which began in
1946 with the construction of
the Glenbawn dam.
Of the 18 projects listed for
Victoria, some are the already-
commenced Kiewa hydroelectric
scheme, estimated to be com-
pleted by 1956 at a total cost of
£25 million; development of
brown-coal deposits by opencut
and its related briquette factories
in the Latrobe Valley for £l9
million; Murray Valley power-
supply project involving con-
struction of three regional
power-stations extending over a
period of 15 years at a cost of
£6,500,000, and extension of
Eildon reservoir for irrigation
in the Goulburn Valley—cost
£l2 million.
The largest number of pro-
jects appears to be laid down for
Queensland. Numbering 29 in
all, these include the £3O
million Burdekin electric and
irrigation scheme ; electrification
of Brisbane’s suburban railways
at a cost of £5,612,500, with
additional cost for rolling-stock
of £3,240,000; also the Dawson
Valley irrigation scheme, Tully
Falls hydroelectric scheme, and
many irrigation and power-
supply projects in leading towns
of the State.
In the remaining States, 15
projects are specified for South
Australia, 15 for W.A. and eight
for Tasmania, including the
£1,900,000 Trevallyn power-
station in the lastmentioned
State, £3,400,0*00 Mannum-
Adelaide pipeline, and the Ord
River project in the north-west
of the continent.
Whatever else this development
implies, the continuance of
demand for constructional
equipment, particularly in the
engineering industries, appears
to be guaranteed for many years
to come.
Wool and N.Z. Imports
Wool millions have tipped the
scales for New Zealand from
import shortages to balance in
most lines of goods, and Maori-
landers should be in a position
to build up an exchange backlog
equal to at least a year’s imports,
if they want to, while the tide
of wool prosperity is still flow-
ing, Spare funds might soon
equal the lion’s share of M.L.’s
now fairly light overseas debt of
£79,000,000, and it wouldn’t be


AUSTRALIA
MUST CHOOSE
SHORT-TERM WANTS
OR LONG-TERM SECURITY
—Says National Bank Chairman
“The fundamental question which Australians must ask
themselves and decide upon at the half-way mark of the
century is: Are we going to sacrifice to some extent satis-
factions in the short term to gain greater national security
and higher standards of living in the long run?” said the
Chairman of the National Bank of Australia Limited (Mr.
H. D. Giddy), at the annual meeting of shareholders, held
in Melbourne on Wednesday, 29th November.
“If the nation answers this ques-
tion in the affirmative —as I am sure
you will agree it must—then the in-
troduction of a measure of economic
discipline into the community is in-
evitable. This has been forced upon
us by the fact that Australia has at
no time since 1945 reached a stable
balance between the supply of
material resources and labour and
the demands that are being made
upon them. Basically, it is this gap
which is the difficulty.”
A MIXTURE OF PROSPERITY
AND INFLATION
“At present perhaps the most apt
description of our own country is
that it exhibits a mixture of prosperity
and inflation. On the one hand, as
compared with pre-war years, big
sections of the public have enlarged
their purchasing power very consider-
ably and the community in general
has greatly broadened its habits of
demand. On the other hand, an
urgent spirit of post-war development
and the optimism generated from an
intense overseas market for our
products have led the community into
an attempt to do far more than the
wherewithal will permit, with any-
thing like comfort to substantial sec-
tions of the men and women who
comprise it. Pools of prosperity are
intermingled with pools of retrogres-
sion.”
AN ADDITIONAL BURDEN
Mr. Giddy said that the economic
position was, in the main, a product
of the immense disturbances created
by the Second World War and its
aftermath, and that recent events have
“superimposed upon this present con-
dition of prosperity adulterated with
inflation a new task, that of defence.
The free world has to regain its armed
strength while at the same time pre-
serving so far as it possibly can
standards of life and freedom, indeed
perhaps raising them.”
“For if we take the easier path and
stay on either edge of this policy —if,
for example, we choose all guns and
no butter, or if we choose all butter
and no guns—the way will be open
for an extension of the communist
doctrine, in the first instance as a
result of the bitter frustration and
disillusionment of the people as a
whole, in the second instance through
aggression by force. Thus Australia
must do three things, and do them
simultaneously: First, strengthen her
defences against war; second, develop
the Australian economy so that we
may have both guns and butter;
third, fight and beat down the infla-
tionary drift.”
“This throws a new emphasis upon
the productive power of the nation,
in the modern world one of the main
secrets of economic success and
strength. In turn, productive power
is dependent upon productivity—that
is, the hourly, daily or weekly output
of goods .and services coming from
the combined efforts of individual
men and women and the productive
appliances with which they are sup-
plied.”
CHOICE OF METHODS VITAL
The Chairman then outlined the
two methods of economic discipline
which could be used to secure Aus-
tralia’s threefold aim of defence,
development and production.
“One method,” he said, “the non-
socialist method, would be to develop,
through leadership and unflagging
attention to public understanding
based on faith in the people, a full
acceptance of individual responsibili-
ties, supplemented by government
policy and steps—principally fiscal
and monetary in character —which
would have the effect of indirectly
bending economic behavior to the
national objective of guns and butter
without inflation.”
“The other method of approach,
the socialist method, would be to
introduce at once direct economic
controls—primarily physical in charac-
ter—and other measures, such as
nationalisation, designed to build up
once again an all-embracing structure
of centralised authority and rigid
bureaucratic determinations.”
“I make no apologies for urging
that the first method, that which I
have termed ‘non-socialist,’ is the one
that should be followed. For I am
convinced _ that the objective of
strengthening Australia while main-
taining standards of living and fighting
down the inflationary drift will never
be reached if, as the means for doing
so, the nation places its faith in
controls. For experience has shown
that controls and the vast organisa-
tion of bureaucratic machinery which,
of necessity, goes with them clog and
clutter up a nation’s productive effort.
Worse still, they create for a time in
the mind of the individual the illusion
that their advent has lifted fro® his
own shoulders responsibility for con-
tributing to the successful operation
of the economy. To no small extent,
the prolongation of various controls
into the post-war years has been
responsible for twisting much national
effort into soft production, to the
severe detriment of the basic indus-
tries.”
“Direct economic controls over the
people in war-time are entirely
different things from direct economic
controls over the people in peace-
time, and I often think it is unfor-
tunate that we are forced to use the
same term.”
“Of course nobody would be so
foolish as to suggest that a democratic
government, whatever its political
creed, should hesitate to use com-
pulsion, if necessary, to obtain what
is required for the direct defence
needs of the nation.”
MEASURES TO COMBAT
INFLATION
After mentioning the vital need for
imports to assist in meeting the gap
between purchasing pressure and local
production, Mr. Giddy went on to
say that he was well aware that in its
present form the inflationary drift
could not be immediately answered
from the side of production alone,
even if supported by a large flow of
imports. “Temporarily, the gap
between the fierce demand, coming
from rising monetary incomes, for
goods and services and their supply
is so wide that special measures are
required to meet what is something
in the nature of an emergency situa-
tion.”
“The Commonwealth Government’s
Budget for 1950/51 provides for a
record peace-time expenditure of
nearly £740,000,000. To finance this
vast sum without resort to fresh issues
of Central Bank credit, the Budget
provides for taxation receipts in
1950/51 to be increased from approxi-
mately £504,000,000 to £677,000,000.
Taxation, especially income tax, is
being maintained at a very high level
indeed, and an intensive savings cam-
paign is also to be instituted.”
“As it is clear that a larger propor-
tion of our resources must now be
devoted to the output of essential
goods and services, other Budget
measures are the imposition of
heavier taxation upon goods in the
amenity or luxury class.”
“In its Budget, the Government has
cut its own capital expenditure,
exclusive of defence works, by 20
per cent.”
THE PART OF THE BANKING
’ SYSTEM
“It could not be expected that bank-
ing policy will rest immune from
the impact of the new national needs.
The carefully selective credit policy
which has been in operation now for
a year or more will have to be con-
tinued. But of course additional bank
accommodation has to be made avail-
able to meet legitimate needs arising
from increasing costs of production
and economic activity in general and
from the higher values of stocks and
overseas trading. Also, a rapidly
growing population necessarily in-
volves some increase in bank lending
on this account alone.”
A HALF CENTURY OF
PROGRESS
“I feel it would be inappropriate to
address you this year without making
some reference to the progress of
our Bank over the first half of this
century. Fifty years ago, the total
assets of the Bank amounted to just
under £9,000,000, and its deposits, at
about £6,000,000, were below the
present paid-up capital. At that time
we had open for business less than
one-fifth of the number of branches
and offices in operation today. There
were no more than 123 branches and
offices, and the great bulk of the
business was confined to two States,
Victoria and South Australia. We
had only two branches in New South
Wales, and we were not represented
at all in Queensland or Tasmania.”
“Of course it is true that in 1900
the population of Australia was little
over 3,750,000 persons and the whole
national income of £175,000,000 per
annum amounted to less than the
total of our Bank’s deposits today.
But one significant fact stands out as
indicative of the great, real progress
made by our Institution during the
first half of this century. This fact
is that whereas fifty years ago the
National Bank held only a little over
5 per cent, of the total trading bank
deposits in the land, today it holds
just on 14 per cent. We now have
628 branches and offices in operation
throughout the Commonwealth, and
the number of our staff —then 500 —
is pow oyer seven times larger.”
THE
‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY
• Company Accounts
• Mining Activities
PRICE 2/-
74th Annual Report of the T. & C. Society
m
im
Ar
.
Head Office, Melbourne.
ofrnother year
of great
Policyholders of the T. & G. continue to have
cause for genuine satisfaction with the outstanding
progress of their Society, as revealed in the 74th
Annual Report for the year ended 30th
September.
NEW POLICIES
119,867 new Life Policies assuring the record sum
of £31,511,936 and 14,272 Personal Accident and
Sickness Policies assuring £4,837,792 were all
written in Australia and New Zealand. These
figures reflect the confidence held by new and
existing policyholders in the T. & G.
ASSURANCES IN FORCE
For the first time, the sum total of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurances in Force exceeds
£200,000,000 —comprising 1,564,000 Policies.
SERVICE
The T. & G. settles all claims with notable
promptness. Payments to Policyholders during
the past ten years have exceeded £36,614,000,
Last year’s payments were £4,599,000.
INCOME
The Income for the year exceeded £12,400,000 —
£890,000 more than the previous year —a record
increase.
SECURITY
The Society has maintained its unassailable
financial strength. The Assets, which are held in
trust to meet payments to Policyholders as they
become due, increased by and now
stand at £71,864,000.
GROUP ASSURANCES
A greatly increased number of firms and com-
panies entrusted their Staff Superannuation and
Group Provident Schemes to the Society. This
is proved evidence of the favourable terms of
these schemes to both employers and employees.
The T. & G. is purely mutual; it has no share-
holders. A Policy with the T. & G. is a Safe and
Profitable Investment.
Society
The Australasian Temperance and General Mutual Life Assurance
Society Ltd. (Inc. in Victoria, 1876.)
beyond the Holland Govern-
ment’s powers to make the
country nearly debt-free in short
time, but most Maorilanders
think it would pay better to buy
capital equipment to put muscle
into their industrial machine and
give a lift to their main source
of prosperity—farming —which
isn’t in nearly as robust a condi-
tion as wool wealth might sug-
gest. In the backblocks and on
hill and high country there’s a
good deal of arrears of develop-
ment to make up, and if the
opportunity isn’t taken to put
this right while producers are on
the crest of the wave New Zea-
land might rue it later. Fencing,
top - dressing and pasture - im-
provement are the big needs, and
they’re all costly.
Much-criticised import-
controls are on the way out, in
stages, but the Government can’t
make up its mind yet when it
should let go the reins. It seems
torn between two desires —one to
give Maorilanders enough goods
to take a rise out of the ever-
increasing cost of living and cost
of production, and the other to
safeguard those it thinks would
xush in with orders to buy a
whole lot of luxury, or semi-
luxury, goods while the great
body of Maorilanders were wail-
ing for the necessaries of life
Of course, there's not much
ground for fears that funds
would be spent wildly, but the
Government has got this idea
into its head, so it’s taking no
chances.
One way out would be to
hand over the reins to the banks,
as in the depression days, and
give as much latitude as possible
to genuine traders, but the banks
aren’t keen to take control.
They’d be under orders from the
Reserve Bank, which didn’t exist
away back in the early ’thirties,
and they’ve had enough experi-
ence of centralised credit policy
in late years (now largely re-
laxed), also of tight rationing of
pounds for transfer abroad, not
to aspire to further lessons as
central-bank agents.
When it comes to whacking
up the export surplus in ’5l,
perhaps M.L. couldn’t do better
than grade demands in four
priorities, something like this:
(1) Capital equipment to build
up production capacity for the
future in all sound industries,
from farming downwards, with
softwoods, pulp and paper well
up on the list; (2) reserve funds
to buy imports in later years
when exports aren’t so buoyant;
(3) repayment of external debt;
(4) special favors for Maori-
landers in extra supplies of con-
sumer goods.
Level-headed traders will keep
their ears close to the ground
next year, and won’t risk over-
stocking, which could lead them
into trouble if prices began to
waver. Maoriland’s small
market is easily glutted by an
inrush of goods, as many learnt
a couple of years ago. It took
months to restore stability and
order, and there was much
peddling of goods at cut prices,
before stocks were brought
within manageable compass
again.
At this stage demand is to be
curbed by “freezing” a third of
woolgrowers’ incomes for the
season —that is £40,000,000-odd
—and with the cost of living so
high that most other Maori-
landers haven’t much to spare it
would be rash to count on turn-
overs expanding much further.
A bill has been introduced into
N. S. Wales Parliament for the
acquisition by the State Elec-
tricity Commission of the Elec-
tric Light and Power Corpora-
tion’s undertaking at Balmain.
Compensation will be determined
by the Land and Valuation
Court. The bill also provides
for the taking-over of the Parra-
matta and Granville Electric
Supply Co. Electric Light and
Power’s shares have risen to over
445. on ’Change.


SMALL TOWN.
It is a quiet place in the sun, tired
and without apparent life, but warmed
by a road
fox-red and lolling on its way, and
wired
to the big town for news, but weary.
Time passes slowed
so that day dies without apparent effort,
fired
by color like a parrot’s wing yet fitting
in
with the long yellow sweep of the plain
and the admired
charm of our three-house town —re-
spectable as sin.
Our corrugated town with its peel-paint
walls
stares at the sunset till, stared-out, the
sun falls:
then it sinks into the soft night as
though it belonged,
losing its shape to the dark like a fluid
cat;
an occasional glint of an eye, but still—
though thronged
with dream that gnaws the young heart
like a quiet rat.
N.S.W.
RAY MATHEW.
CAMP FEVER.
Camped by a creek and didn’t speak
for a week:
The continual bell of the smaller frogs,
the croak
Of “bulls” in the bulrushes, and the
chirp
Of crickets in my bunk. He’d harp,
and harp.
That fellow, on the weather; until, I
tell you,
I, maddened, could but threaten, “Very
well, you ”
And, then, we two fell out; fell on each
other,
And bitterly fought as brother fights
with brother.
A bloody mess, the tent; and out he
went,
His two lights out; fell in the river.
Meant
To bathe his wounds; wound up instead
As posted missing in the flood. Poor
dead
Cow, now, I miss him. Now I tramp
the river.
How I’d nurse him, to drag him out and
shiver
Listening to his talk of weather, never
Again to quarrel, pitch in peril of camp
fever.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.
THE ORCHIDS.
As the brown wallaby’s hollowed nest
was the bed of leaves by the lovers
pressed
last year. The two tent sticks were left
still leaning in the mauve gum's cleft,
and the fireplace of grey sandstone
stood in the ferns and grass. Alone
the creek was talking, talking to itself
from pool to pool, from shelf to shelf.
He stretched out at its brink and drank
and ate, then on the leafmould sank.
It was the yellow robin’s song
that pierced his brain, and the curra-
wong,
wheeling between the gully walls,
woke him on earth with pealing calls.
As though they had risen while he
slept,
true to the cycle that they kept,
tall orchids, purple-blotched and
spotted,
stood all about him in the rotted
leaves to wake his strength at last:
uncompromising and outcast.
N.S.W.
ROLAND E. ROBINSON.
FOR THE DROWNED FOREST
A WREATH OF WILLOW.
It is all in the death of a leaf.
The flow of time.
By the still hearth thoughts drift on
rafts of flame;
Each in his inmost self of joy—his
secret heart—
Is Everyman—
A dance of rabbit-catchers in the
rain—
Is Everyman—
A Poverello in a ducal train.
The grey box flowers to a death of fire.
(Plait for the drowned forest a wreath
of willow.)
Come home to the valley having spent
your penny of wonder
On the bared lightning and the moun-
tain thunder;
Nor care what eaglets feather on the
rocks
When on your window the first wattle
knocks.
For haste is in the eastern wind, like
Magi bringing
Gifts to fulfil a dream, while I
Am stilled within my own heart’s sing-
ing.
(Plait for the drowned forest a wreath
of willow.)
Whose cry is with the curlews over-
head,
“Middens are cold that long ago were
red” ?
Safe here till night has gathered dark-
ness in
And hid it in the rock-pools for the
moon;
She will come seeking, seeking, ever
silent,
Parting the boughs with silver.
(For Mulwala’s dead forest a wreath of
willow.)
Cast here, on the slow lake swell over-
side,
From the steamer hulk—
The ghost of a French skipper lurking
on the bridge—
Where “Australien’s” painted, letters
black and tall.
Piratic spiders board her, black and
cruel.
Who walks the stairs of fire in the night,
The shelved fungus burning out
ladder from the rotted wood?
Set for the drowned forest a green
crown riding
Over the flood that’s captive to the
weir.
The river flowing is a silver tree —
White leaves dance downward from the
mountain rocks—
With deep-drawn strength deep-rooted
in the sea.
And for all their might of bowed backs
and burning hands,
Sturt’s boat’s crew passed in the flow,
In the time of a leaf’s death in the swirl.
(Cast to the drowned forest a wreath
of willow.)
VICTORIA.
MARY FINNIN.
THE POET TO HIS MUSE.
Philosophy, philosophy! You fond and
foolish thing!
There is a bird upon a tree,
Here is a man would sing;
And all that you can do is wave
A baton in the air
That leads or follows my intent
Upon a soundless instrument—
While with a line of golden sound
A bird draws heaven in the round.
N.S.W.
ERIC IRVIN.
SONG FOR A MOONLIT
NIGHT.
O, lie with me, my darling,
As the moon lies on the sea;
With blade of silver claiming
Its midnight territory.
Then sleep a while, my darling;
Ebb-tide must follow flood.
And the same moon moving oceans
Sways their sister of the blood.
Yet, should we see on waking
Our tyrant’s but a stone.
We’ll close the shutters, making
A moonlight of our own.
QUEENSLAND.
VAL VALLIS.
HENRY LAWSON.
Death had you: quiet, shrill, it was all
the same.
But for others a Sunday came
With its leisurely blue and white,
Twelve-footers rakish in a freshening
wind,
An old man’s moody pipefuls, and a
boy’s mind.
An old man’s moody pipefuls—give us
a light—
Grey ash and dust to fight
The shepherded, breathless red;
Random jowl of a smoke-puff—this life,
did you ask,
Or was a burned-out lantern driven to
frisk
By a tactless hand at the tent-flap?
Back from the dead
For sodden conjecture spread
Over back fences: the ear
Might spare you something of this, but
never the eyes
Could miss sour vapor on shambling
footpaths and bays;
Dawn’s broom in the gutter; like a label
the; sneer
With every doled-out beer
And landlord’s mercy; the alloy
Rusting each sense when from a ferry’s
box
Of roped-in glitter swam night, and
those faces empty and lax.
But chance rites of sunshine, an old
man’s pipefuls, a boy:
Had these no wings for you, joy
To push at the creaking gate
Of water and words? No, the caged
shag could not pass
To his rightful distance and silver and
singleness.
Back to the grave with this, then—but
remember, wait:
The pub’s fool, Macquarie's Mate,
Can hear them mocking his buried
thought and stress.
Rises, becomes his dead friend —having
nothing more—
And will fight to a standstill. Someone
watches at the door.
N.S.W
FRANCIS WEBB.
LOVE WHO POINTS THE
SWALLOW HOME.
Love who points the swallow home
And scarves the russet at his throat,
Dreaming in the needle’s eye,
Guide us through the maze of glass
Where the bulldozer cannot pass,
With your silent clarity.
There where blood and sap are one,
Thrush’s heart and daisy’s root
Keep the measure of the dance
Though within their cage of bone
Griefs and tigers stalk alone
Locked in private arrogance.
Lay the shadows of our fear
With the brilliance of your light,
Naked we can meet the storm.
Travellers who journeyed far
To find you at our own front door,
O love who points the swallow home.
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL.
THE GREEN CENTIPEDE.
Whatever lies under a stone
Lies under the stone of the world;
That day of the yellow flowers
When out of moss and shale
The cassia bushes unfurled
Their pale soft yellow stars
And lit the whole universe.
Out from the same deep source
Like some green shingly rill
From the grey stone dislodged
The big green centipede ran
Rippling down from the hill:
And fringed with silvery light,
So beautiful, not to be touched,
In its green grace had power
—Down where all rivers meet
Deep under stony ground—
To make the most gentle flower
Burn, burn in the hand.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
SALLY’S SONG.
I tried to find the words
But speech would not come
For what I had to say.
Therefore you call me dumb.
I could not paint the scene,
Whose colors in my mind
Are not on any pallette,
So I am reckoned blind.
A child, I heard a man
Play on a green gum-leaf
Wonderful music—strange it is
That I’m considered deaf.
Am I a clod because of my
Difference of sense?
This I would not exchange
For any intelligence.
N.S.W.
NANCY KEESING.
SLEEP.
In shallows of sleep I lingered then to
see
Again the beauties and blessings of the
day
As one looks back, the white surf at
his knee
To hillsides rich with leaves, soaring
away
From yellow sand to morning sky, the
blue
Heaven-well too deep for memory to
possess,
Till thundering foam and glass-green
swell must woo
His heart from land joy to sea happi-
ness.
But headlong now down rocky heights
to sleep
I run, as convicts ran, not looking back
To lash, chain, and black cell, hearing
the deep
Call through the blood-bay of the fol-
lowing pack,
Over the cliff-edge hurtle, down and
down.
And, thanking God for His dark
mercies, drown.
N.S.W.
NAN MCDONALD.
A Page of Verse
CAT AT THE WINDOW.
I love the window-sill
Don’t you?
Half in the house, half out,
While in the room behind
Your giants humane and kind
Bumble about
As those queer creatures will.
In two worlds you live
While you couch there,
Tucking in your feet,
And negligently give
The garden and the street
Your meditative stare
Within, you know
That all according to your wish
In an hour or so
There will be milk and fish;
Without, as you immobile sit
And seem to contemplate
The Universe, and Life and Fate.
Chance may send
The prey, feathered or furred,
The toothsome mouse, the tender
bird,
To its apportioned end
Within your claws,
Or you may face
Quite unconcerned
The enemy dog, whose frenzied
demonstration
Is so easily turned
Into humiliation
And disgrace.
N.Z.
ARNOLD WALL.
CRINKUM CRANKUM.
Whenas, at charges for a kiss.
He felt her body answer his,
Man Adam did of buxom Eve
Immortal happiness achieve.
Great sport it were—and holiday!
Epitome of perfect bliss;
Till certain hallow’d catchpolls came
From Heaven, in a coach of flame.
Intent to make ’em pay the price,
By shutting both from Paradise.
Yet, Adam discontented them
(These angels) of their own estate,
While that he told of things, ad rem;
Their kisslessness, and acid fate.
‘‘But, 10, our sin’s so sweet,” saith he,
“It mollifies the gallows-tree,
Block, boot, or stocks—nor lets hot fire
Destroy the raptures of desire:
Wherefore, to live bereft of love,
For us, is not to live enough:
Much better, then, to love and die
Than live for ever lovelessly.”
At once, affrighted by a “Boo!”
(A famous English goose did, too;)
These angels, routed, backward flew.
Exclaiming “Satis!” and “Eheu!”
N.S.W.
HUGH MCCRAE.
LEGEND.
The blacksmith’s boy went out with a
rifle
and a black dog running behind.
Cobwebs snatched at his feet,
rivers hindered him,
thorn-branches caught at his eyes to
make him blind
and the sky turned into an unlucky
opal,
but he didn’t mind.
I can break branches, I can swim rivers,
I can stare out any spider I meet
said he toi his dog and his rifle.
The blacksmith’s boy went over the
paddocks
with his old black hat on his head.
Mountains jumped in his way,
rocks rolled down on him,
and the old crow cried. You’ll soon be
dead,
and the rain came down like mattocks;
but he only said
1 can climb mountains, I can dodge
rocks, I can shoot an old crow any
day,
and he went on over the paddocks.
When he came to the end of the day
the sun began falling.
Up came the night ready to swallow
him,
like the barrel of a gun,
like an old black hat,
like a black dog hungry to follow him.
Then the pigeon, the magpie and the
dove began wailing
and the grass lay down to pillow him.
His rifle broke, his hat blew away, his
dog was gone
and the sun was falling.
But in front of the night the rainbow
stood on the mountain
just as his heart foretold.
He ran like a hare,
he climbed like a fox,
he caught it in his hands, the colors
and the cold,
like a bar of ice, like the column of a
fountain,
like a ring of gold.
The pigeon, the magpie and the dove
flew up to stare,
and the grass stood up again on the
mountain.
The blacksmith’s boy hung the rain-
bow on his shoulder
instead of his broken gun.
Lizards ran out to see,
snakes made way for him,
and the rainbow shone as brightly as
the sun.
All the world said, Nobody is braver,
nobody is bolder;
nobody else has done
anything to equal it. He went home as
easy as could be
with the whole round rainbow on his
shoulder.
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT.


a
2. ‘^-»
< ■ .<■»
ms
<Sfe» ">, :
V-.
-' >
i K&uf
i ;
I
r.,
®SI
% %.
m.
* %
-•' < '
•r - -
wi*~yjsk* Wfi
■;- ? 'i=
n§
<m
m ■
. •;
KC-j
m
w
i 1
•vs» >■•
4 .
<!#•»
-! 4 »
Hi
■ffl
w
.
■
' 1
I f
Si t I
re
■* ,.,
SN c
%£ %< m
»I
\ f
** ■
%
V
,
V.-
r.
C.
mm.
%
■ r
J.
-
I
smS
m
mt
/N:
>»-
W*t-
*• '
• '
® Wan
o*.
m
fy/.
f* ft
.■ ■ m
Christmas (and the New Year tool)
for
m
w
pP'
gltfk |AWSB
'aV
EXTRA
ORN
pßfl
V.
pr-
s r i
u «**£
c^usVJ 0 ?
• . ,io & w* e
LI
oCE-
-w
OPRt-w
-
b»<-'» m
6.&rT»Wsons bo- ffam
s.y l A?
iHE****®*
For the Festive Season, or any oilier time, Orlando offer you a superlative
range of wines - the result of more than 100 years experience in the art of
wine making. Full bodied, matured and such good taste 9 their heavenly
flavours will be the highlight of your Christmas celebrations.
He sure you ask for Orlando 9 for in every bottle lies perfection in wine;
blended with all the skill, care and knowledge handed down through four
generations of specialists in this art and with the natural
richness that is inherent in the carefully selected grapes grown and
cultivated at the Orlando Vineyards in the fertile Barossa Valley.
WINES
and remember to "KEEP IN GOOD SPIRITS'
B R AND! of course!
PRODUCTS OF G. GRAMP & SONS LTD.


iS'»V\
tSiWlf C*M
wsta
Schweppes
FRUIT CUP
A NEW BLEND OF PURE FRUIT JUICES
OBTAINABLE AT ALL STORES
ALL FRUIT JUICE CORDIAL BOTTLES ARE RETURNABLE
EX-ENEMIES AS ALLIES.
When the history of these
1950’s comes to be written its
major theme (short of a world
war now) will probably be
the restoration of Germany and
Japan as strong members of the
grouping of free nations.
The moves in that direction
Mes mot
WITH us
VET I
\ A/7^
—New York “Herald Tribune.”
SWIMMING THEIR HORSES ACROSS.
are still only in their early
stages, with a good deal —
France’s fear of Germany in
particular—yet to be ironed out,
but it now seems practically
certain that 1951 will see rapid
and dramatic advances in the
restoration of both ex-enemy
countries, and even the open
embracing of them as allies.
The leader in these moves is,
of course, the U.S. (which is
getting vocally impatient at the
delays), with Britain practically
in step, and France being
dragged rather reluctantly along
—that is, in regard to Germany ;
both Britain and France seem
much less concerned about
Japan. Even France, however,
has reached the point of agree-
ing that Germans must be in-
cluded in any effective Western
European defence force, and has
lately backed-down from its first
stipulation that they must be re-
stricted to separated battalions,
which would not have enlisted
one man and a dachshund in
Germany.
U.S. Pressure
On that deadlock the German-
restoration issue at the moment
rests, though U.S. pressure is ex-
pected to be quite strong enough
to enforce other French conces-
sions. Meanwhile a fair indi-
cation of the change that has
taken place, even in France, in
a mere year or two is given by
the following comments of the
“Paris-Presse” (politics, inde-
pendent) :
“What is there in favor of
Germany’s rearmament? The
fact that it cannot rest for ever
a dead weight on the Atlantic
defence. That it is abnormal to
protect 48,000,000 Western Ger-
mans by Frenchmen, English-
men, Americans Under the
pretext of denying the Ger-
mans military service, must we
take their place, pay more taxes
and force our own youth to con-
tribute two years of military ser-
vice?”
The London “Times” Paris
correspondent has quoted
General de Gaulle’s views on
German rearmament as partly
reflecting those of the French
Government. De Gaulle had
said that every impartial ob-
server agreed that France needed
15 divisions with five oversea,
5000 aircraft and a modern battle
fleet of 350,000 tons. With
powerful French forces in a
united Europe, he said, the par-
ticipation of German units in
the defence of the Elbe did not
cause alarm. “France would ac-
cept it a fortiori,” the General
continued, “if it were organised
concurrently with the massive
and swift support of her oversea
allies.”
Hobson’s Choice
British views on the German-
rearmament issue can be taken
as broadly represented in the
following brief selection of com-
ments ;
London “Economist”: “It is
now quite clear to everyone (as
it was clear five years ago to
anyone with a sense of history)
that Germany will inevitably,
and rapidly, recover its
sovereignty and equality among
the nations. Is Western Ger-
many to be counted as a mem-
ber of the Western alliance or
not? To most people in America
and in Britain the answer is ob-
vious. There is no such thing as
a vacuum in international poli-
tics, and if Western Germany is
not on one side it will find itself
on the other. Moreover, the
contribution that the Germans
could make is badly needed. It
is to everybody’s interest that
the defence line of Western
Europe should be set on the
Elbe; the Western Powers have
given a guarantee that it shall
be so ; and it is ridiculous to
suppose that Germany can be
defended without the Germans.
The Americans, in fact, have
made it a condition of their own
further involvement that Wes-
tern Germany shall'be recruited
into the joint effort.”
“ Yorkshire Post” : “The prob-
lem of whether or not the Wes-
tern democracies should rearm
Germany is one that has got to
be faced without evasion..,.
Even if we were strong enough
to hold the Elbe ourselves it
would be wrong to decree that
only non-German blood and
treasure should be expended in
Germany’s defence. It would
be foolish, too, to allow Ger-
man industry the run of the mar-
kets of the world while France,
Britain and America turned to
armaments.”
London “News Chronicle”:
“The case for enrolling Ger-
mans in their own defence —and
in ours, too —would not exist at
all if the West did not live in
fear of Russian attack, but it is
a very strong case while that
fear persists. If the Red Army
moved toward the Channel ports
the military strength of the
North Atlantic Treaty Powers,
as it is now, or as it will be in
the foreseeable future, would
not be enough to stop them —
certainly not before they reached
the Rhine, We are, therefore,
faced with the choice of arming
the Germans to fight on our
side, or of watching the Rus-
sians arm them to fight on theirs
having first overrun the
whole of Germany. This is the
argument in favor of the West
German Republic joining in the
defence of Europe, and it is a
difficult one to controvert.”
Britain’s Conditions
London correspondent, “New
York Times": “The prospect of
the direct association of the
United States in an integrated
force with a unified supreme
—London “News Chronicle.”
LOVE ME—LOVE MY DOG.
command outweighed earlier
British objections to the rearm-
ing of Germany. However, in
accepting the principle, the
British were hardly less insistent
than the French on adequate
safeguards against a revival of
German militarism. They will
insist that there be no rebirth
of a German general staff, and
that the size and nature of Ger-
man military formations be
strictly limited.”
The same. —“The British are
less concerned than the French
over the danger that the Ger-
mans might use their new armed
forces in an attempt to win back
the lost provinces of Eastern
Germany, thus provoking a new
world war. They feel that the
fact that German forces would
be amalgamated with those of
the United States and their own
would be a sufficient guarantee
against that danger. What the
British are chiefly concerned
about is the possibility and
danger that in certain circum-
stances the Germans might shift
their loyalty from the West to
the East. They want to be cer-
tain that a rearmed Germany
will be politically and economi-
cally tied to the West; that it
will not be subjected to that
temptation, and further, that if
it is, its military forces will not
be so balanced that they can
operate independently. They be-
lieve that can be done.”
The German view is exactly
represented in a couple of sen-
tences from a speech by the Ger-
man Chancellor, Dr, Adenauer;
“If the Federal Republic is to
put a contingent at the disposal
of an American-European army,
then it will do so only on a foot-
ing of complete equality with
all the other contingents. That
is our condition, without which
we shall in no circumstances co-
operate,”
Japs Too
To bring Japan into the pic-
ture it is necessary to turn to
the U.S., for, while comment on
the German problem is to be
measured by the square mile in
British and French sources, and
is continuous, Japan is most of
the time disregarded. On the
other hand, U.S. interest is fairly
evenly focused on both Japan
and Germany; they are really
regarded as one problem, and
what this amounts to is the prob-
lem of the restoration of the
time-honored essential known as
the “balance of power.”
This wider U.S. outlook—
broad as befits Uncle Sam’s
new role as undisputed leader
of the free world —has been very
ably stated by Mr. F. Eberstadt,
the man who headed the war-
time U.S. Army and Navy Muni-
tions Board, was vice-chairman
of the War Production Board
and later was assistant to
Bernard M. Baruch on the
U.N.O, Atomic Energy Commis-
sion. Declaring that the war
destroyed Germany and thus
opened up that country and its
former sphere of influence to
Russian infiltration in Western
Europe and in the Balkans, and
destroyed Japan and thus opened
up that part of the world to
Russia’s aggressive designs, and,
as if that were not enough, the
U.S. then demobilised its power-
ful military establishment, he
commented:
“By destroying States essential
to it we destroyed the balance of
power upon two continents,
actions which were highly favor-
able to the imperialistic inten-
tions of Russian Communism.
To the coolheaded and skilful
manipulations of our calculat-
ing former ally we innocently
responded in exactly the way
they wanted us to.
“In the destruction of Ger-
many and Japan and in the head-
long demobilisation of our mili-
tary establishment we upset the
balance of power to such an ex-
tent that unless it can be re-
stored promptly and effectively
war with Russia is likely. How-
ever, in my opinion it can be re-
stored if we act promptly and
effectively. And that, if and
when it is, war with Russia is
unlikely. To restore a balance of
power in time to forestall war
with Russia will, however, re-
quire vigorous and courageous
action, action going to the heart
and core of the problem
“This would involve (1) restor-
ing our own [U.S.] military
power to a point which we can,
as indeed we will have to, carry
for a long term of years with-
out crushing our economy ; (2)
aiding in the restoration of the
military power of our allies and
(3) bringing Germany and Japan
back into the family of nations
as counterweights in the balance
against Russian aggression.”
“Magnanimous Peace”
Insisting, that, along with U.S.
rearmament, there should be re-
armament not only of the other
North Atlantic pact nations but
also “of those nations whose
security in the Far East is
in jeopardy,” the American
authority further suggested:
“Germany and Japan, in my
judgment, should not be granted
concessions that smack of trad-
ing against the Russians. They
should be made into going con-
cerns. If we have, in fact,
adopted the policy of making
peace with Germany and Japan
we should make that fact clear
to our people and to the world,
and we should focus on it —not
drift but drive toward it.


ißmds Sydney
can send you a
"Sparklet" Syphon
&
hi
9
with soda-making “ Sparklet ” bulbs
K
L:
65/9
Syphon only
Special "Sparklet”
fitting to
recharge syphon
from bulb*
Celebrate Christmas with a "Sparklet” syphon from Proud’s. No
matter how far out of town, you need never he without sparkling soda.
No trouble at all to refill. Just fit the hulh to the syphon and in a
few moments you have a refill of the finest soda for your Christmas
drinks. What a wonderful idea for Christmas or New Year n. a gift
that will he appreciated hy all the family.
I Vrite to the mail order manager and we will pock and despatch one straight away.
Syphon, 65/9, “ Sparklet” bulbs, 8/7 dot. ( freight: 1/6, N.S.W.; 2/- Interstate)
Proud's, Mail Box 1502, G.P.0., Sydney. ’PKone BW 2721
am
1
0
/
m .*
Ancestors of
an Industry
Sir William Bragg , together with his
son Sir Lawrence Bragg, was the originator of the
modern technique of the X-ray analysis of cry-
stals which has proved invaluable in unravelling
the atomic structure of solid substances. By this
means he was able to show how the atoms are
arranged in crystals and even to throw light on
their arrangement in such substances as silk,
rayon, cotton and nylon. The technique is now
in regular use in both academic and industrial
laboratories.
Born in Cumberland in 1862, and educated at
King William’s College, Isle of Man, Bragg
graduated as third wrangler at Cambridge in
1884. He held important academic appointments
in Australia, Leeds and London, including the
Directorship of the Davy-Faraday research
laboratory at the Royal Institution, where much
of his work was carried out. He and his
son were jointly awarded the Nobel Prize for
physics in 1915, and they were honoured by
universities and learned societies
in all parts of the world. He re-
ceived his Knighthood in 1920,
and the Order of Merit in 1931.
He died in 1942.
ICI
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
n IL-86-14—-
LOVELY WAY
TO BE LAZY
relax in luxurious ease on the
sun-drenched terrace of the
Royal Hayman Hotel—your
eyes entranced by the vivid
panorama of Whitsunday
Passage—deft stewards at hand
to supply every wish.
A few such peaceful days and
you’ll be eager for the more
energetic sports and pas-
times of a Hayman Island
holiday—swimming, cruising,
fishing, exploring Coral
reefs, dancing at night—all the
thrills and gaiety offered
by the finest resort in the
Southern Hemisphere.
ummm
WHITSUNDAY PASSAGE, GREAT BARRIER REEF
7?a
m
r
/£
\
Reservations through Ansett Travel Service
Melbourne MU6921; Sydney 8W2921; Adelaide Cen. 2514;
Brisbane 82291; Hobart 7470; Launceston 1760; Canberra 908;
and all recognised travel agencies.
Luxurious four-et
“The urgency is great and the
time is short. If we are to make
peace with Germany and Japan
let’s do so promptly and mag-
nanimously, with a view to mak-
ing these former enemies our
friends.
“I would like to distinguish
clearly between a programme
which looks toward rearming
Germany and Japan on the basis
of opportunism and expediency,
— St. Louis (U.S.A.) “Post-Dispatch.”
AGAINST A DARK BACKGROUND .
and the programme which I sug-
gest—which is to restore these
two nations to positions of
responsibility and respectability
in the family of nations. The
former is a makeshift on the
purely military level. The latter
is a long-term political pro-
gramme for peace.
“The way to make peace is to
get busy and make peace—real
peace, not a pussyfooting,
weasel-word, technical peace
under which Germany and
Japan are to maintain feeble
military establishments disguised
as so-called police forces which
we falsely hope will do our bid-
ding and fight our battles for
us.”
Safeguards
While Germans and Japs (in
this representative American
view) would certainly not be de-
pendable or effective soldiers
under such an arrangement, they
would fight to defend their
own homelands and their own
national security and their own
interests: “To the extent that
these are in harmony with our
objectives in restraining Russia,
they constitute an effective
counterweight to the present
serious imbalance.
“Is it likely that the Korean
incident would have occurred if
Japan had been restored to a
strong and independent condi-
tion? How long would the
Russian sword hanging over the
head of Western Europe con-
tinue to dangle if Germany were
on her feet?.....
“First of all we should see
that Germany is firmly tied into
the other nations of Western
Europe and becomes a full part-
ner in the North Atlantic pact.
The importance of this point
cannot be overemphasised. We
must not permit Germany again
to get into a position where she
can play the West and East
against each other as a pre-
liminary to attacking one after
the other. The Schuman plan
offers real assurance in this
direction...
“In the peace treaties with
Germany and Japan we can em-
body appropriate protective pro-
visions to which they must ad-
here. For example, we can put
limitations on the size and nature
of their armed forces. We can
call for periodic reports and can
reserve the right of inspection to
ourselves or to the United
Nations.
“During the transition period,
while Germany and Japan are
recovering to the point where
they can protect themselves and
their own interests, we should,
and, in fact, will have to, main-
tain strong forces in those two
countries—-ironically enough not
essentially to punish or control a
former enemy.”
How representative the fore-
going is of U.S. outlook on
Japan is indicated by the key
clause in the recently-announced
(November 24) American pro-
posals for a Jap peace treaty:
“The United States proposes a
treaty with Japan which would
end the state of war, restore
Japanese sovereignty and bring
back Japan as an equal in the
society of free peoples.”
Today, with the bitter Korean
developments, there is not much
doubt that Britain, France and
the U.S. all feel that, if any-
thing, the strange ironic twist
here outlined is belated.
Dragnet Digest.
By Any Other Name. —St. Louis
(U.S.A.) “Post-Dispatch” runs through
the efforts in war-nomenclature:
World Wat I, World War 11, “phony
war,” “cold war,” “hot war,” and
the latest, for Korea and Indo-China
Communist aggressions, “stooge
war.” It sums-up: “Gen. Sherman
gave war a name no one can ques-
tion. ‘Hell,’ he said, And one, two,
two and a half, phony, cold, hot or
stooge, hell it remains, even when in
the best of causes.”
* * * *
Iron-Curtain Fifth-columns. Joe,
too, has ’em, points out London
“Daily Telegraph”; “Preoccupation
with the potential danger of Com-
munist fifth-columns on this side of
the Iron Curtain should never blind
us to the fact that on the other side
adversaries of the Soviet empire are
to be numbered not by columns but
by armies—longing, if not yet fight-
ing, for liberation.”
* * * *
The Barbarian Beyond. London
“Economist” gives a French Govern-
ment now a better chance of unifying
the country, and also recovering its
military status, than has existed since
De Gaulle resigned in 1946: “The
great thing is that fear of the bar-
barian beyond the Elbe and the hope
offered by the United States that the
barbarian may be warded off are
spreading together throughout the
population; feelings that have pro-
jected the twenty-divisions plan with-
out summoning up a serious chal-
lenge to the project’s feasibility.
Furthermore it seems that deep down
the French would like to have an
army for its own sake. They are,
after all, a military nation.”
* * * *
“Daily Worker” Slightly Annoyed. —
Anybody in doubt about the real
nature of the Cominform-plotted
“peace congress” which had to be
shifted from Sheffield to Warsaw has
only to read the fulminations in the
London Communist “Daily Worker.”
Very hot under the collar, it accused
the British Government of having
committed “slimy sabotage,” of
resorting to “guttersnipe Tammany
tactics,” and of being guilty either of
“mean-spirited trickery, conceived
originally by some crooked spiv-like
mind,” or of giving way to “American
pressure.” Also, the “sabotaging”
bore the imprint of the “narrow,
pettifogging and tyrannical mind of
the present Home Secretary, Mr.
Chuter Ede —the worst occupant of
the office for a generation.”
* * * *
Indubitable Corns. Unlike some
hopeful ones whose views on China’s
Corns have lately been given here,
New York “Herald Tribune” declines
to swallow “agrarian reformers” and
suchlike versions: “It would be plain
folly to allow the fog of wishfulness
to blind us to the immediate reality
in China. That is that while the
Chinese Communist package may
differ from Moscow’s in its outer
wrappings, its inner contents are the
same. The behavior of the Chinese
Communists indicated that they are
part and parcel of the Moscow-led
conspiracy to advance world revolu-
tion, world Communism and the
destruction of our way of life.”


Three dags of pollard
by BRIAN JAMES
U D now!”
“I’ll be careful, all
I J right.”
“What’s that?”
“Yes, Mother.”
“Be careful then.”
“Yes, Mother.”
There was a lack of con-
fidence in the admonition and
some little resentment in the
replies. The boy, fourteen, thin
and strong, was just a little tired
of maternal solicitude and
maternal domination. His
mother was a woman of many
cares and trials, and given a little
to grumbling and repetition.
What was there to be careful
about anyway? The cart
wouldn’t fall to pieces, and old
Charlie was as steady-going
and reliable as ever a horse
was: in fact, these virtues were
a shame in themselves, leading
contemporaries who drove or
rode more spirited animals to
believe that Charlie was dead
and didn’t know it. So what
was there to worry about?
But mothers are like that, re-
flected the boy. At least his
mother was: always nagging
and fussing about something,
and telling a fellow of fourteen,
a grown-up fellow of fourteen,
able to do a man’s work about
the place, and doing it, too —
well, it was treating a fellow as
a bit of a kid.
“Keep a tight rein all the
time,” his mother went on.
“Yes, Mother —I’ll keep a
tight rein all the time.”
There was nearly an argu-
ment over that —the boy's
slightly ironic repeating of the
warning. His mother had always
such decided views on obedi-
ence, courtesy and cheerful
acceptance. Also on horses
stumbling.
“And keep on the side roads
as much as you can” Blast
it all! But did she want him to
cany the flaming horse? The
soft and dusty side roads! Just
to save the shoes a little, as if
the mgtalled surface would wear
them out in a few miles. He
was almost inclined to make an
issue of the matter. Instead he
answered—“ Yes, Mother.”
“You heard what I said?”
“Yes, Mother —I heard you.”
“Well, don’t forget.”
“Yes, Mother. No, Mother.”
“What did you say?”
“I said, ‘No, Mother.’ ”
The reply just about passed
muster in the way of
acquiescence.
“On the way home, you can
take Charlie through the river
for a drink—and it’ll wash the
wheels and tighten the tyres.”
“Yes, Mother”—as if he
wouldn’t do that in any case.
“Get two bags of pollard at
the mill. No, three.”
“Which?”
“Three bags of pollard.”
“Three bags?”
“That’s what I’m saying.
Three bags. Book them.”
“Yes, Mother.”
“How many bags?”
“Three bags.”
“And when you are at the
mill ask how much flour is a
ton.”
Flour fluctuated in price, and
Mother liked to buy a half-ton
when it was cheapest—and take
delivery at a bag a time. The
mill was decent that way.
“Will I bring any flour?”
“No, no! Just ask how much
a ton.”
“And the pollard?’*
“You’re to bring that what-
ever the price. Three bags.”
“You said two before.”
“I said three. Three bags of
pollard. And the price of the
flour.”
THE pollard was really im-
portant. There was a
drought on of moderate propor-
tions —as there usually was.
Sometimes there was a dry spell
—which didn’t matter much
except that it withered the crops
(Remedy was simply stated —
“could do with a drop of rain
right now.” And sometimes it
did rain, but as often as not it
didn’t); if the dry spell kept on.
—as it mostly did—it became a
drought (“One flaming drought
after another!” w ent the
chorus); if the drought went on
—as it sometimes did—it be-
came a Big Drought, and worthy
of being ticked off on the fingers
among the Big Droughts of the
past. (“Worse than the ’O2, I
reckon,” or “as bad as the ’95,”
or “not a patch really on the
’87.” It just depended on how
old you were to deal properly
with the magnitude and
malevolence of droughts.)
But this was just a drought—
so far. And so far pollard, with
the bit of stubble on the wheat
paddock, sufficed to do the cows
and continue a dribble of milk
from them. Later on, if there
was a later on, it might come to
lopping apple-trees and falling
oak-trees. It often did. Just
now pollard was reasonable and
the cows could manage on it . . .
The boy for the tenth time
overhauled his cargo. Two bags
of bones —one of them a trifle
high perhaps: Ryan’s old Baldy,
those bones old Baldy
had died in "the scrub, but
rather too recently to make
good, respectable bleached
bones. There was a squat and
heavy bag of iron—cast-iron it
had to be: plough-shares from
the headlands and suchlike. Ail
of these, the bones and the iron,
worth good money in miserably
small quantities. Nothing much
to it really, but still . . .
Between the bags was a
roughly cubical bale. Rabbit-
skins—hundreds and hundreds
of rabbitskins, tightly bound in
with binder-twine. A truly
exciting bale. It did represent
money—real money. Smellie
and Tutt, the skinbuyers, had
advertised in the local paper,
the “Western Post,” that they
were giving eightpence a pound
—for the Best Skins. They even
intimated that they would give
eightpence for Any Quantity—
of Best Skins. The bit about
quantity was a comfort to the
boy; he had an uneasy feeling
that he might be swamping the
market with his bale, and bring-
ing the price down with a rush.
Eightpence a pound! It was
almost unheard-of. Something
for the mind to conjure with, for
the tongue to repeat over and
over by way of reassurance.
Real money that was! Indeed!
“If you are at Smellie and
Tutt’s you might get a half of
potatoes and a quarter of
onions.”
“A half of onions and a
quarter of”
“No—you’d better leave them.
Don’t get them.”
“Will I get them or not?”
“Don’t get them. I don’t
get them.”
“I won’t get them, then?”
“Yes —don’t get them.”
JANE, the oldest sister, came
out. Could Jim get a reel
of silko. Something like that.
The boy looked sullen about
it • . • All , right then. Don’t.
But Jane for the life of her
couldn’t see why Jim couldn’t,
and him going to town and all.
Really and truly he ought to be
made do things. And it wasn’t
as if Jane ever asked him to do
anything. She never asked
people to do things, and when
she did they always wouldn’t.
And she was always doing things
herself for everyone else.
Always.
Mother sided with Jim —no
particular compliment about it.
She really reflected upon his
stupidity, to appease Jane, and
his inability to go to the depart-
ment where Curran and Co. sold
such things as silko. But he
ought to be made just the same,
said Jane. And Mother tried
to soothe Jane with “there,
there, now!” She was a bit
afraid of Jane. At least of a
trial of strength with her. It
was bad for discipline that. But,
if anything, 1 it made for more
rigid exercise of it over the
younger ones. It is hard to give
up absolute power. And Jim,
the only boy, was approaching
the danger-line, too. The grip
on him mustn’t be loosened.
Charlie woke up and stretched
a hindleg a yard longer than its
normal length. Then Charlie
was ready, but he didn’t get
excited about it; he merely
waited passively for further in-
structions. Perhaps Charlie
once had his dreams of youth,
and had flung up his coltish
heels in wild careers and wheel-
ings round the paddock, tail fly-
ing and eyes goggling, snorting
in the very ecstasies of simu-
lated and joyous fear. That was
a long time ago and he had a
glossy bay coat then. Hard to
remember now, and it didn’t
matter now. He was old Charlie
nod/, with a high reputation for
honesty and faithful service.
Charlie walked to the sliprails.
He always walked that section
of the journey ; no trotting till
he got into the lane, and only
then when told to do so. Other-
wise he’d walk all the way to
town. Time didn’t mean much
to Charlie.
Jim glanced back at his
precious cargo. Mother misin-
terpreted. “Three bags of
pollard!” she called out . . .
“And the price of flour! ...”
“Don’t bring the potatoes or
onions ...” “Be careful . . . ”
“Three bags ...” But Charlie
was trotting now —a most re-
spectable old-age trot; and
Mother’s voice faded away at
last.
IT was a glorious early after-
noon. Middle of May, and
no drought could spoil the sun-
shine as it dropped through the
yellow-box-trees that sparsely
lined the lane. But the ground
was bare and hard and brown.
There had been practically no
autumn rain, and so winter feed
would be scarce. When one
thought of that, the soft blue
of the sky and the glory of the
sunshine were mockery—bright
raiment of that grisly thing, the
drought.
Jim didn’t think of it that way.
Here he was, a man at last in
his own right, driving off to
town by himself as any man
might be doing. He had things
to sell and money to make.
He’d be able to jingle coins in
his trousers pockets, perhaps
have a greasy note or two to
pull out of those same pockets—
casually, of course, when some
grown-up situation demanded it.
The young man’s thoughts of
love were as yet highflown,
romantic and nebulous, running
much to quite impossible rescues
and the chaste reward of kisses.
It hardly came down closer to
earthy reality than that; and
Pearly Spence, who was five
years older than he, and much
sought after and, unknown to
herself, placed on a high
pedestal, would be his at last—
the bravest man she had ever
known or was likely to know.
A selective series of rescues was
arranged for —Pearly drowning
in the river, Pearly trapped in a
burning house. Pearly in the
power of a band of bad men,
Pearly pursued by a wild scrub
bull —all of them situations that
required matchless courage, skill,
judgment; and, after the event,
commendation and lovable
modesty.
But today there were other
matters. Bones and iron—no
great profit in these. Skins —
that was the way to fortune, if
the market only held. There
were limitless rabbits waiting to
be trapped, shot and poisoned.
The present bale was the honest
results of trapping. It was a
proud thought—how superlative
was his skill in trapping. Even
the professionals would recog-
nise that. He knew when it
was best to set at the burrows,
and when at the buck-heaps. He
knew how to dry his skins so
that they held their weight. He
knew all about skinning in
sandy places where loose hard
grains stuck to the skins and
made them heavier, and all
about that innocent ruse of in-
cluding now and then the ears
and forepaws, cunningly hiding
these inside, where only the
lowest and meanest of buyers
would ever find them. Likewise
the hiding of the paper-thin,
dark-blotched pelts of kittens,
retaining the weight of them and
hiding the shame of them within
the large fine marketable skins
of bucks. Likewise the skins of
milky does—putting these in the
centre of the bale where they
were not offensively obvious . . .
‘ All these things had he done
in his man’s way through the
world, nor did he think them
inconsistent with his high
dreams of Pearly Spence.
C'"' HARLIE pulled out of the
' lane on to the hard crown
of the main-road macadam.
Along a bit was one of those
side-tracks, dusty and soft and
not overrutted. Charlie took it
of his own accord ; he wasn’t
going to bung up bis legs and
feet unnecessarily. Out of the
next side-lane rattled a sulky-—at
least a pair of dished and slant-
ing wheels suggested that a sulky
existed somewhere between
them. Otherwise little else could
be seen for rabbits. Dozens and
dozens of rabbits hung with
heads down from everything
horizontal. A rhythmic swaying
and ripple ran through the tight-
packed carcasses with every
bend and sway of the sulky.
On the low backless seat of
the sulky was Alby Smith ; a
lean, tough, useless and dis-
reputable citizen who lived in a
hut by the creek. And with
Alby was Mrs. Alby—at least,
she claimed the courtesy title.
Mrs. Alby shook one’s faith in
humanity even more than Alby
did. Whatever evidence there
had ever been of beauty in her
was now most successfully
hidden by eyes that were
horribly crossed, and a top jaw
bereft of all except two very
large eye-teeth. She was as
thin as a paling and much more
stubborn in the grain. Her
reddish brown hair was dusty in
(Continued on page 24 .)
ELEGY FOR MY SAD-FACED UNCLE.
My sad-faced uncle, who went through life melancholy
with a loud voice and the story he was always telling,
did not anticipate death as real alternative,
never contemplated the certainty of cut string
or squashed mosquitoes: v
met death
as a thirty-six model Chev.: died suddenly
crossing the street under a futile umbrella that he always
said—l-never-use: shut eyes,
in some affectation of amazement; found the lids heavy
and without time to push them, died.
Was buried on a Monday by mourners with black cars and
hankies
indecently white who thought of his childhood and six-
o’clock closing,
the ironing at home and the chops to be got.
No, he had not tangled the meaning of dirt-thud on the wood,
nor the emptiness of speech-golden tombstones, nor thought
of the wonder
of star-eyes at night. He had not thought of it at all.
Which was fitting and better.
Surely death was kind to my uncle with the sad-puppy face
and better not delayed till thinking.
N.S.W.
RAY MATHEW.


That
boy of
yours
IPiiiiliiii
:: : : . '
m t
m ; «
.
. >: <• :
m-:
■f. :■
■
■S*
iJVS?' V •■T&
'v.
:
■
■■■■
.■■•; • : •: ■>
.. .. • ; ■
mmmmm
m
pH
: ■: ,
■
«iP
Hi
...i-V
;; : ;X”> : :
1
ill
m
m
■
Hi
mm
■
11
m
8888
:
88883 3
ill
11111111111111
HE will carry on your name. You have
brought him up with affection and care,
and you want him to have the best possible start
for his career ... a position in the steel
industry.
He will keep that happy outlook as oppor-
tunities open up before him ... as the industry’s
Staff Training Scheme fits him for promotion.
Australia’s ever-developing steel industry has
big plans for the future, plans in which your
boy can take a successful and secure part. Give
him this chance.
There are vacancies available now for
technical trainees and trade apprentices to start
in 1951.
Call, write or phone The Broken Hill
Proprietary Co. Ltd. today for further details
at any of the offices or works at Melbourne,
Newcastle, Why alia, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane
and Perth.
Your local B.H.P. manager will be glad to
help your boy plan an interest-packed career as
an engineer, metallurgist, chemist or highly
skilled tradesman in the steel industry.
There’s a future for him in


s*
LuDOWICI
INDUSTRIAL
PACKINGS &
JOINTINGS
ƒ
Oo facilitate ordering, J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
will gladly supply on request a specification sheet that
covers every vital factor to ensure satisfactory service
in the application of all types of Packings. IPs a free
J.C.L. Technical Service write for your copy to-day I
syhtbettc
■mu
* s>e *n s
* O,
(St
*««*
''OSUfe. /r/
on
Ludowici’s range of Industrial Packings and Jointings
now covers Industry’s full requirements. In addition
to our universally recognised line of Leather Packings
for hydraulic and pneumatic applications, we maintain
a complete range of high and low pressure steam pack-
ings and jointings in both Australian and imported
brands.
We also supply a full range of rubber and synthetic
rubber, packings, gaskets, dust excluders and the
approved Flu-Seal oil and grease retainers.
J. G. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.,
117 YORK ST., SYDNEY. BX 5841. 20-28 QUEEN’S BRIDGE ST., STH. MELBOURNE. MX 3101-3.
Leather Belting • Robber Belting • Conveyor and Elevator Belting • Rotmd Leather Belting • Textile Leathers •
Belting Accessories • Leather Packings • High-Speed Grinder Belts • V Belt Drives • Industrial Clutches • Plain
Bearings • Anti-Friction Bearings • Steel Shafting • Shafting Couplings • Shafting Hangers • Microid Bearing Metals
• Porous Bronze Bushes • Gears • Pulleys • Wall Brackets • Variable-Speed Drives • Lodowid Pivot Drive •
Fla-Seal OH Retainers • Composition Packings • Lutex Industrial Plastics • Industrial Gloves • Rubber Hose •
Lemcol High Quality Trucks, Wheels, Castors, etc.
appearance, matted and tangled.
She had a sharp raspy voice, and
in manipulation of language
she could even outdo Alby.
Common rumor said that Alby
was always belting her, but this
wasn’t quite true, for often and
often she belted Alby. It de-
pended merely on the simple
natural law, who was the more
drunk.
Both were now stone cold
sober, and enveloped in dead
rabbits.
“Hi!” called Alby as the
vehicles met at the corner of the
lane. Jim pulled up. Alby’s
quick eye for all that had to
do with rabbits had spotted the
bale of skins in the cart.
“Poison?”
“Poison? No,” said Jim un-
certainly.
“He means those
skins in the back of your
cart,” explained Mrs. Alby
with great lucidity.
“Oh, them! No, traps. And
a few I shot.”
Alby ignored the few that
were shot. “Traps!” he spat
over the dashboard, missed and
landed on the rabbits hanging
there. “Traps! bloody mug’s
game, that is. Skins!” And he
spat again, more successfully.
“But don’t you?”——
“Of course we well do,”
supplied Mrs. Alby. “But only
for the carcasses.”
“Oh, I see.”
“Freezing-works going again,”
explained Alby.
“Eightpence a pair,” said
Mrs. Alby. “Isn’t that
good money?”
“Too right it is,” Jim agreed.
“But then you lose the skins.”
That sent Mrs. Alby into a
thin cracked-up humor of a
blasphemous nature. She invited
Alby to listen to the
goat. “Of course you
lose the skins, but you’re
getting fourpence for each
rabbit, aren’t you?”
“Ye-e-s. I suppose so.”
“Point is,” said Alby with
what looked like inexpressibly
low cunning, but which wasn’t
really. “Point is I’d give you
tuppence a rabbit myself,”
“What would I have to do?”
“ catch the little s,
that’s what you’d have to
do,” explained Mrs. Alby.
It was good money, but deal-
ing with the Smiths was the
snag. And there were other con-
siderations in the bleeding and
cleaning. Alby divined the diffi-
culty. “All y’ have to do is
catch the rabbits and keep them
alive in chaffbags or anything.
I’ll call round every morning
and get them.” He jerked his
thumb towards Mrs. Alby. “Or
she will.”
That settled it. Tuppence
might be good money—but hav-
ing the Smiths about the place
wouldn’t do. Mother wouldn’t
stand for that, and Jane cer-
tainly wouldn’t,
“Oh, I don’t know really. I
don’t think—it’s a matter of
having time —and I haven’t
many traps—and you see”
Alby let him stumble on, and
then took a most unreasonable
view of the refusal: “What’s
well wrong with y’? Ain’t
tuppence enough for y’?”
“No, it ain’t that exactly.”
Mrs. Alby’s unwashed
instincts led her to the true
reason—it was a social matter,
and money didn’t enter into it
at all. She said so, or, rather,
screamed it, voicing her con-
tempt of people who were stuck
up and thought themselves too
good to mix; ending compre-
hensively with: “And all that
sort of thing.”
Then she said it all again,
with more refined clarity. It
was a truly shocking perform-
ance, the more so as Jim’s
mother figured so prominently
and frankly in it as an awful
example of snobbery.
“Giddup!” called Alby to his
long - legged, bony, yellow,
sketchy-looking horse, supple-
menting the intimation by a
wallop along its main dividing
range of a backbone with a thin
lithe sapling. The horse started
off at a surprising speed, a
purely mechanical operation as
far as that horse was concerned.
The dished wheels-rattled and
spun round in a way that
promised instant dissolution
about their hubs. The rabbits
swayed ; the lower ones dipped
heads and paws into the dust
when deep ruts lowered the
wheels on both sides; and Alby
and his good wife took up the
swaying motion from side to
side. And Mrs. Alby continued
her abuse, inarticulate now, but
none the better for that.
JIM and Charlie followed at
slower pace through the
low-risen dust no higher than
the fence-posts. There was a
terrible lesson to be learned
from the Smiths and their
rabbiting. Anyway, there was
little enough attractiveness about
the proposal except the tuppence
a carcass . . . And this Alby
—what an awful fellow! And
his appearance—wasn’t there
some yarn that he had acci-
dentally poisoned himself —
pressed an aching tooth with his
finger when he was poisoning
rabbits and got phosphorus in
his mouth? “Practically burnt
his guts out,” was the descrip-
tion. Well, Alby looked like
that .. . And Mrs. Alby; her
people were a “crook lot,” and
she was worse really than Alby,
though she hadn’t swallowed
any phosphorus.
They had had one child these
Smiths—years ago that was, and
Jim was too young at the time
to understand all about it. A
little girl of two ; she died in the
hut on the creek. Alby and his
wife were very drunk. The
police came into the business,
and there was an inquest. But
the Smiths had “got out of it,”
whatever it was.
Jim decided once and for all
he’d stick to skins.
Over the last hill and there
was the town before him —fair
to see in the soft May sun.
Drought or no drought the
willows wore still their summer
green and the big flats were
green, too, with the river
encircling them like an arm.
Two spires rose into the air,
things of almost unreal beauty
in this setting. And the high
blue range behind the town
swung round as the river did . . .
It was the only town Jim knew
and he thought it magnificent.
In some way to him it repre-
sented wealth and culture and
civilisation. And commerce.
Here he was, a trader, with his
bales of merchandise.
And there were the buyers to
meet and bargain with. A good
bargain was a species of hunting
in itself, an excitement beyond
the money gained; a pitting of
wits in a stern hard game . . .
The bones and iron were easy,
for there was only one place that
dealt in such —Coote and Co.,
Forwarding Agents, up near the
railway. And the prices for
such commodities were un-
alterable.
Jim drove up to Coote and
Co., who, for all the importance
of “Forwarding Agents,” had
small and ramshackle offices. A
disdainful young man was in
charge and attended to Jim. A
fastidious, immaculately-dressed
young man, with still the air of
better things about him. Graham
was his name, and it was a pity
that “Monkey” was universally
attached to it as a kind of
Christian name. “Monkey”
wasn’t fond of old iron and he
loathed bones ; but these formed
part of his work in Coote and
Co.’s office. Jim handled the
bags and “Monkey” weighed
them. A shilling for the iron
and eighteenpence for the
bones. Lord, but you could still
smell Ryan’s old Baldy in the
second bag! “Monkey” could ;
he wrinkled his flat nose to
indicate that buying such stuff
was one of the unexplained
eccentricities of the firm, and
decidedly beneath him.
He wrote something in a big
book and gave Jim a half-crown.
That .was better. And now for
Smellie and Tutt. But first of
all he would try the other places
that bought skins. Curran and
Co. bought skins in their
produce department; so did
Allen’s . . ,
DINNY MALONE was man-
in - charge at Curran’s
Produce and Skins. A fat, jolly,
shrewd, hard old fellow who
smelt like potatoes and lucerne
hay flavored with sheepskins.
He thumbed over the ends of
the skins without undoing the
bale and gave a confidential sort
of grunt. “Uh—summer skins
mostly—try to palm them off on
Dinny Malone, would you?”
Jim looked guilty. Some of
those skins did go back to the
summer —late summer, anyway.
He tried to deny the charge.
“Fourpence - ha’penny! ” said
Dinny with pleasant finality,
“But, Mr. Malone”
“Fourpence ha’penny, and not
a farthing more. Do you want
to break me?”
Jim demurred, but Dinny was
immovable. “That’s all right,
sonny. You don’t have to sell
them to me. Try somewhere
else if you like —you might find
a fool to give you more. But
it won’t be Dinny Malone ...”
At Allen’s the produce-and-
skins man was Arthur Miskin,
also known as “Dead-Horse,”
an extremely mournful soul
whose life, apart from produce
and skins, was given to religion
—he “took service” whenever
he got the chance. He looked at
the skins and he looked at Jim,
and neither Jim nor the skins


(APS «f f
tO«*'
m-
m
1 .
I
r\
¥.
it
f
a»P
*r
rtf
:
fi«=
4S
i
%
CBi/24rr.
THE
fyin't'
OF A GREAT
BRITISH-AUSTRALIAN
ENTERPRISE
&
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD
Proprietor!!
THE COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
end
ANGLO-IRANIAN OIL COMPANY LTD,
take Qare Qn R
Precious ”
found favor in his sight. “Thrip-
pence!” said Mr. Miskin
gloomily. He made it sound like
a cheap and nasty sort of sin.
Jim didn’t argue. It was
useless to argue with Mr.
Miskin. And as the bale went
back to the cart Mr. Miskin
gave a loud sniff. The sniff hurt
Jim terribly.
Smellie and Twtt were some-
thing very different: produce
in die big way—bought and
sold. Something like produce —
tall stacks of potatoes and
onions, great piles of pumpkins
and sleek jam-melons in the
pattern of carpet-snakes and
leopards; mountains of chaff as
fragrant and sweet as the green
bales of tight-pressed lucerne
hay; bags and bags of seeds
with the tops neatly rolled back
to show peas, rape, cabbage and
so forth; scoops and bag-hooks
and scales, from small Salter’s
to steel-yards and a weigh-
bridge ; faint smell of dusty
horse-manure that wasn’t un-
pleasant at all; high iron roof,
with drapings of cobwebs on the
rafters ; cats in the chaff section
and among the endless bags of
wheat and corn; reddish rock-
salt—tons of it in great chunks
and lumps . . .
This was something like.
In another iron-shed were the
skins —green, odorous, floppy
bullock-hides ready to go to the
tannery, casks of tallow,
kangaroo- and wallaby-skins
God knows where such quan-
tities came from —and, early as
it was, possum-skins, too. And
over on one side, more rabbit-
skins than the eye of man had
ever looked upon before, in
great stacks, loose and ready for
grading and baling.
Smellie and Tutt were big.
They were auctioneers, too, and
Stock and Station Agents, and
agents for this and that in the
say of insurance and agricul-
tural machinery. They were
Big Business, all right.
JIM approached Sandy
Snaith in the skin-shed.
Sandy was in a tattered leather
apron and carried a pencil
behind his left ear. Otherwise
he was a bright little man with
a quick cackling voice and a
dusty, drooping moustache of a
mousy - grey color. Withal,
Sandy was an easy, decent sort
of man to deal with. He
weighed the skins “Young
fellow, young fellow, you have
forty-eight pounds there —not
quite forty-eight, either, but
well call it forty-eight, won’t
we, young fellow? Now, what
did I say forty - eight
pounds . . . That’s right, young
fellow.” He made it sound like
a prize - giving. “Forty - eight
pounds, young fellow —and let
me see, let me see” He cut
the bindings and ran the skins
through a quick examination.
“Summery, kitteny, milky. And
some fairly good bucks —mixed
lot, mixed lot, young fellow —
not top prices, young fellow —
tell you what, young fellow —
sixpence it is. Sorry, but I can’t
make it more —sixpence it is.”
Sixpence! And Curran’s
offered fourpence ha’penny and
Allen’s thrippence. Sixpence!
Certainly not the advertised
eightpence, but, still, a fair
price, considering. Jim closed
on the deal and got twenty-four
bob. Twenty-four bob! Real
money, that was. He was
wealthy.
The first accession of wealth
is likely to go to the head.
Potatoes and onions! That was
right. He went into the other
shed and picked up a quarter of
each—that was right, a half in
all. A half did come into it
somewhere, and that was how
it was. And then there was the
flour. He drove to the mill,
right up the other end of the
town,, beyond the railway-
station, A poundnote, a rather
new poundnote and not a
greasy one, and some loose silver
in his pocket! Money like that
in the trousers pockets gave one
a manly feeling. Properly
grown up.
Good thing, too, he remem-
bered that flour. In all the
njegtal excitement of skjn-deal-
ing he’d nearly forgotten the
flour. It was a bit much, really,
for a man to carry on his mind.
And there was something else,
too—what was it? No, not the
silko for Jane —that had been
cancelled after a bit of an argu-
ment —what was it? He ran the
silver through one set of fingers
and crinkled up the poundnote
with the other. And that made
it harder to remember. But, ah
yes, that was it now —he remem-
bered now —pollard. The price
of pollard.
With the bag of flour and the
onions and potatoes stowed in
the back —all the troublesome
items of business finished with,
he drove back to Curran’s—the
ironmongery. What a great
thing it was to have money in
the pocket . . . “Oh, yes,” quite
nonchalantly, “yes, two boxes of
those.” Two whole boxes of
cartridges for the 12-gauge
Sluys’s black powder. And two
boxes of .22 shorts for the pea-
rifle. “And—well, I think a
half-dozen traps Sawkins’s,
please—wouldn’t use anything
else. Sawkins’s.”
On second thoughts he cut
down this order to four and
slapped down the pound on the
counter —no, not booking these
this time. In the grocery was a
new shipment of dates. Boxes
of them, open, most inviting,
and tuppence three-farthings a
pound. One pound for thrip-
pence and two pounds for five-
pence ha’penny. He bought two
pounds.
AND now for the biggest pur-
chase of all. Over to Herb
Wallace’s barbering saloon. What
a glittering place that saloon
was! What an art gallery,
among other things, was that
window actresses, racehorses
and boxers, most of these in
color. And tobacco and
cigarettes and cigars and pipes
—enough, surely, to do the town
till the end of time. Herb’s sleek
assistant served Jim. He would
recommend Coronet, He would
certainly smoke Coronet if he
didn’t smoke Atkins’ Golden
Sovereign. And McCoy was the
pipe. Yes, expensive for a start,
but cheap in the long run. Or
A.B.C, That is if one really
wanted a good briar. Well, a
clay cost a penny, but a man
could hardly smoke a clay. Not
if he valued self-respect. Only
navvies smoked clays. Well, the
cherry was a good cool smoke —
not a showy sort of pipe,
though. And heavy. Roff’s —
can’t beat them if one insisted
on cherrywoods . . .
It was all such good advice,
given in such proper superiority
that wasn’t at all hurtful. And
so Jim became possessor of a
four-ounce plug of Coronet and
a Roff —silver band and all. A
cherrywood pipe and golden-
brown Coronet would make up
for the deficiency of years. He
was indeed a man now; and
those poor childish substitutes
for tobacco, roots from the
creek-bank, and quince-leaves
and tea-leaves consumed in
broken-down clay-dabs, were
happily things of the past.
Finished with, too, were the sur-
reptitious puffings of infre-
quently-obtained cigarettes. A
pipe and plug spelled man’s
estate at last.
He gnawed off a pipeful with
his knife and rammed it into
the bowl with elaborately care-
less ease. He had cut off too
much, and, not to waste it,
rammed harder still. He struck
a wax vesta. The pipe wouldn’t
draw. He had hoped that he
was observed, standing in front
of Herb Wallace’s saloon; and
(i Continued on page 27.)


MODERN
SANITATION
IN UNSEWERED
AREAS
&
THE
HYGEIA DISSOLVEHATOR
(Complete self-contained sanitary
system.)
NO GERMS
NO ODOURS
NO FLIES
NO EMPTYING
NO WATER
SUPPLY
NECESSARY
f
ANY HANDYMAN CAN
INSTAL IT
Sewage material is chemically trans-
formed into a sterile solution that
runs away into the soil.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
PTY., LTD.,
26*30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 22 years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
" DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND ; Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual
Building, Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.) Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St.
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Build-
ing, Bundle St, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mc-
Inerney & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St, Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd.,
Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN: C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix
Sales and Services.
Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
“CANADIAN CLUB” Ready Rubbed
Aromatic Fine Cut Blended from
Top Quality Leaf. In 2oz. Packs.
Priced 24/- per lb. or loose Priced
22/- per lb.
“PACIFIC” Fine Cut Beady Rubbed
for Satisfaction and Mildness, in 2oz.
Packs, Priced 3/- per pack, or loose
Priced 22/- per lb.
“WINSTON.” That Fine Old Well
Matured Pipe Mixture that is now
even better than ever. Priced 20/-
per lb. Loose.
Remember WINSTONS. It's good.
Write: MAIL ORDER DEPT..
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co.. Ltd.
Box 17, Valley P. 0., Brisbane.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP
TASMANIA— Ix Divorce.
TO DAWN TASMA RICHARDS formerly
of Pormby Grove Quoiba near Devonport
in Tasmania whose whereabouts are now
unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that a Petition
has been filed in this Court endorsed with
a Notice to you to appear and answer the
charges in the Petition of GEOFFREY
JACK RICHARDS of Bradshaw Street
Latrobe in Tasmania Labourer praying for
a dissolution of marriage on the ground of
desertion In default of you so appearing
you will not be allowed to address the
Court and the Court will proceed to hear
the said Petition proved and pronounce
judgment in respect thereto And take
further notice that for the purposes afore-
said within thirty days after the date of
this publication the appearance must be
entered at the Registry of the Supreme
Court of Tasmania, Macquarie Street,
Hobart. —J. R. REX, Principal Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RONALD THOMAS ROBINSON for-
merly of 41 Railway Street Merewether.—
TAKE NOTICE that MONA DOROTHY
ROBINSON has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3714 of 1950' on the ground
of desertion without just cause of excuse
during 3 years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance at the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 19th
day of February 1951 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
MESSIEURS E. R. TRACEY & COM-
PANY, Solicitors, of 81 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
mM
mm
: S
-
|i| ;
■
w
......
; •: ;•
m:
m
m
■
m
m
m
m
m
■#;
S K ■■ ••
His
;--r:
if-'
v'
99
TOP DOG
SHIRTS
ifejfiTS’N
THE BRAND WITH A PEDIGREE
/
/J
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy platen printing-press, either
hand or treadle. State price required
and condition.—4961.
Words of verse “When the Crops
Are Above the Fence.”—4959.
To buy copy of The Billy Book by
David Low. —4960.
Information Sought.
Some details about sunflower-grow-
ing in South Australia ?
Sunflowers are grown to a certain
extent in South Australia for the pro-
duction of green fodder, and, being
purely a spring- and summer-growing
plant, are only suitable for those
districts where summer rains are
sufficient or where irrigation is avail-
able. Satisfactory crops are grown
in the 23in.- to 28in.-rainfall country
in the Adelaide hills and south-east.
They are more or less looked upon
as a catch-crop, and provide useful
greenfeed for cattle. Sunflowers have
also been tested for production of
oil, but South Australian climate is
not very suitable for tthe economic
production of oil.
* * Ht
Recipe for tanning rabbit-skins
using oatmeal and alum ?
Cover the skins inside with a thin
mixture of bran and water for 24
hours, then wash well in clean water
and scrape away all impurities and
roughnesses. Then place the skins in
a warm siplution of 11b. alum and
ilb. salt dissolved in hot water, and
soak for 24 hours. Dry them par-
tially by rubbing, shaking and press-
ing, and immerse them in a bath of
warm water and oatmeal of the con-
sistency of thin gruel. Leave for
another 24 hours, partly dry them in
the shade, and finish by rubbing
gently until they are dry and soft.
Brush out the fur and trim into
shapes wanted.
What is a passion-play ?
Drama in the form of the old
miracle-plays depicting the Passion of
our Lord. Passion-plays are found
during the later Middle Ages, espe-
cially in Germany and the Tyrol, and
they reached the height of their excel-
lence during the 16th century, The
best-known modern example is the
Oberammergau passion-play, first
mentioned in 1633 in connection with
a vow made by the peasants after a
severe visitation of the plague, that
they would perform a passion drama
once in every tdn years. The text of
the Oberammergau play has several
times undergone revision.
# * * *
Some details about William Harri-
son Ainsworth, the historical novelist?
He was born at Manchester in 1805,
where his father was a solicitor. He
was to have followed the same pro-
fession as his father, but he had little
liking for it. Fie came to London
to finish his studies and met there
John Ebers, a publisher who was
manager at that time of the Opera
House; he thus met a great number
of literary and musical people, and
his charming manners found him
many friends. In 1826 he married
the daughter of John Ebers, and
worked for some time in his father-
in-law’s business. He gave this up
soon, and devoted the rest of his
life to journalism and literature. His
first successful novel, published in
1834, was Rookwood, the hero of
which was Dick Turpin, and from
that time on to 1881 he published
about 39 novels. Some of these
appeared in “Bentley’s Miscellany,”
“Ainsworth’s Magazine” and “The
New Monthly” while he was editor
of these papers between the years
1840 and 1853. Among his friends
were Dickens, Thackeray, Talfourd
and Cruikshank. His best-known
novels are The Tower of London,
1840; Old St: Paul’s, 1841; , Lanca-
shire Witches, 1841; Crichton, The
Flitch of Bacon, The Miser’s
Daughter, 1842; Windsor Castle, 1843.
* * * *
What is the story of Daphnis and
Chloe ?
It is a Greek pastoral romance, one
of the earliest works of its kind,
sometimes attributed to an author
Longus, of whom nothing is known.
Its date is uncertain, perhaps the
2nd century, a.d. It is the story of
two infants discovered respectively by
Lamon and Dryas, shepherds of
Mitylene, and brought up by them to
tend their sheep and goats, and tells
of their love and adventures and final
union, after the discovery of their
wealthy parents. George Moore
wrote a translation (The Pastoral
Loves of Daphnis and Chloe), pub-
lished in a limited edition in 1924.
* * * *
What are the duties of a purser on
a ship ?
A purser is the officer in the ship’s
company who keeps the accounts
and, usually, has charge of the pro-
visions. In large passenger-ships the
purser’s department is of the greatest
importance, and the purser will have
as his assistant the chief steward and
a personnel of between three or four
hundred stewards. He is responsible
for the entire victualling of the ship,
amongst many other duties. He has
to act as host to the passengers, a
position requiring considerable tact.
In smaller ships, such as cargo liners,
a purser is not needed, and a chief
steward combines the two jobs. One
of the duties of a purser is to make
up the portage bill, which is a detailed
account of the financial transactions
of every member of the crew and
the amounts due to each man when
the ship pays off.
* * * *
A few hints on growing myosotis
( forget-me-not ) ?
This hardy perennial may be utilised
for winter, spring and summer bloom
by making successional sowings, and
seed may be sown in midsummer,
autumn or spring. The best method
is to sow in seed-boxes or an outdoor
seedbed, transplanting the seedlings
as soon as they are large enough to
handle conveniently. Seed of myosotis
is slow in germinating, and very often
it will be five or six weeks before the
seedlings show through. The best
soil is a good rich sandy loam which
has first been limed and thoroughly
well dug and renewed -with well-
decayed cow- or stable-manure. When
planting-out the seedlings place them
from six to nine inches apart.
Brief Answers.
S.Y.: Spread the stained part of the
carpet over a basin and pour petrol
through the stain repeatedly; when
the petrol becomes dirty let it stand,
and strain off the clean liquid for
use until the stain comes out. There
is also a special Feltex soap on the
market, with directions for its use.
Washing by sponging the stain with
hot soapy water containing cloudy
ammonia can also be tried. Rinse
clean with warm water and dab as
dry as possible with cloths
T.J.F.: The famous literary detective
C. Auguste Dupin was introduced in
The Murders in the Rue Morgue by
Edgar Allan Poe E.W.; Radclyffe
Hall, English novelist and short-story
writer, best known for The Well of
Loneliness, a book which caused a
sensation because of its theme of
sexual inversion among women, and
was banned in England, died in 1943.
... .S.L.: Australia 1950: The Herald
Year Book, edited by J. A. Alexander,
published by the Herald and Weekly
Times, Ltd., Melbourne... .T.M.:
From H. E. C. Robinson Pty., Ltd.,
221 George-street, Sydney.... W.D.:
A “geographical mile” is the length
of one minute of latitude. If the
earth was a sphere every minute of
latitude would be of the same length,
but ; as it is a spheroid the length
of a minute increases from 6046 ft.
at the equator to 6108 ft. at the poles.
The mean length of the “geographical
mile” is 6076.8 ft R.J.H.: “The
Book List of the City of Sydney
Public Library,” issued monthly, free,
by the City of Sydney Public Library,
Q.V. Building, George-street, Sydney.
J.M.: No Victorian Agricultural
Department publications are available
on the subject. However, the follow-
ing are available at Is. each from the
Director, Commonwealth Experi-
mental Building Station, Box 30,
Chatswood (N.S.W.): Document No.
17, “Pise or Rammed Earth” ; Docu-
ment No. 18, “Adobe or Puddled
Earth”; and Document No. 19,
“Stabilised Earth” P.McG.: The
British Broadcasting Corporation,
Broadcasting House, London, W.l.
K.T: The next edition of Who’s
Who in New' Zealand and the Western
Pacific will be published in December
by A. H. and A. W. Reed, Welling-
ton (N-Z.) N.A.: The Founda-
tion of Australia (1786-1800) by Eris
O’Brien, published by Angus and
Robertson, Ltd., 89 Castlereagh-street,
Sydney.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
No notice (except of a hostile
character) will be taken of com-
munications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken
re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
H. 8.: You’ve answered yourself
already... .E.D.: Nearly, but it was
too much day-in-the-life and not
enough life in the day... .A.E.S.:
Ditto; we imagine the Australian
short-story writer saying “1 shall give
an exact portrait of these people and
of this scene, but I will not push them
about or distort them into a design,
because that would be fiction”
D.V.A.: We have read the story, and
in reply to your question we are not
going to pay anything for it
J.: “French Wedding” is very good,
but if we took it after those other
papers it would be bigamy... .E.V.C.:
Those plaster-of-paris jailbirds, those
mould-made situations —not our type
at a 11... .M.E.M.: Nice enough, out
not for us H. 8.: “It was a year ago ;
I was a perfectly normal man then.
You should have written your story
then... .J.T.: “First Love” a bit
forced; and why do nice girls write
about cops and robbers? ... .M.L.D.:
Monkeys is not Australian except
in the Senate A.M.M.: “The Day
Dollie Returned” only just a little
too slight R.M.: Long, long ago.
Bellerive: Turn back the pages :
F.F.: It’s like our little boy with
your story and drawings—remarkable
he should have done it when no one
expected him to do anything....
A.D.8.: “Black Simeon” too dark
a view for us E.McL: There is a
difference between the surprise-ending
and the shock-ending when the shock
is that one has read all that for this.
R.H.: Well, it’s a conventional
sort of animal story, as though the
“Monarch of the Glen” had come
slightly alive L.H.: Cheerful, but
a little sawney... .R.F.: “Fuel for
the Fires of Love” is a neat plot, so
right, indeed, that you shouldn’t
need to make the people so unreal.
S.H.: These days the idea is to
make your characters talk now and
then... .G.A.P.: It’s a solution with-
out a mystery... .R.A.F.: Not bad,
but not quite E.G.H.; The action
is too slight for all those motifs.
THE DEAE OLD YEARS.
The dear old years !
When feeling glum
A tonic of cheer was
A nobbier of rum.
The dear old years
Of the cyclorama.
Fine minstrel shows.
And thrilling drama.
The years when cheap
Were socks and boots.
Good working shirts
And slop-made suits.
To the course of time.
For ever and aye,
The dear old years
bid roll away.


FRENCH
[Corn Curel
Cures Callouses and Corns
Available at
[Anthony Horderns’|
The ALL-BRITISH
filUi«l|SiltMUt
(T&nd, t/ie
(jreafaifi
N?5B
55/6
PRICES
RANGE
FROM
24/-
TO
55/6
N 9 70
m
Ike 7*en, u/itk
the ?HaAveslou6 Ttih/
CONWAY STEWART & CO. LTD. LONDON
S. W. RAMSAY. MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
4
*' TO ENSURE PAYMENT ON THAT DATE
FILL IN YOUR BANK
NOMINATION FORM
TODAY
650,000 War Gratuities are due for payment on 3rd March, 1951.
To ensure payment on the due date complete and forward to your former
Service Department at once a form of "Nomination of a Bank Account for
payment of War Gratuity." The form is obtainable at official post offices.
HOW PAYMENT WILL BE MADE Payment will be made by
crediting the amount of gratuity plus interest accrued to an account in the
name of the gratuitant in any bank nominated by the gratuitant. For
further information see back of form.
COMPLETE FORM FULLY To avoid any possible hold-up in pay-
ment of your gratuity on the due date, ensure that the form is complete in
all respects before despatching it to the appropriate Service Department.
It is important that the two specimen signatures provided for at the foot of
the form be furnished in every instance. Where payment is to be made to
an existing Savings Bank Account the account number must be stated.
YOU FORWARD FORM to the applicable address as shown on
the back of the form.
OBTAIN BANK
ANY OFFICIAL POST OFFICE .vu«, l
' ' ';■ : ■ ' -fl
NOMINATION FORM
r vi :1
WG/93.1 10
when the pipe refused to draw
he hoped no one was looking.
He dug out the fill and put it
back more loosely, throwing
away the surplus. He hoped no
one noticed that.
T* HE pipe drew beautifully.
1 No doubt the Roff was the
pipe. Cool and fragrant. He
"Slower! Slower! My skirt's nearly worn out!"
drove blissfully on the home-
ward road and gave old Charlie
his drink in the river. The
water was clear and shallow over
the colored gravel, swift-running,
and the broken surfaces and
little waves caught the declin-
ing sun in a pattern of bright-
moving lights that made one
dizzy to watch. But it was a
lovely river, and the Roff was
a wonderful pipe. He puffed out
the blue smoke and watched it
hang in shreds and wisps in the
still, lazy air. Life was good,
and there was still enough of
silver and copper in his pockets
to jingle reassuringly.
Charlie put forward a better
foot for home, and the iron
tyres made a harsh but pleasing
melody as they ground the hard
surface of the road.
At the Western Shore Hotel
beyond the river was a scare-
crow of a vehicle, to be diag-
nosed as that of the Smiths.
Divested of its rabbits, it looked
shamefully naked, like some very
old man, a mere skeleton of a
man without a stitch of cloth-
ing to cover his wasted unlovely
frame. Alby and Mrs. Alby
were inside somewhere laying
the foundations of an honest-
to-goodness drunk on the pro-
ceeds of their rabbits, Jim
couldn’t see them and was glad
he couldn’t.
The pipe drew better than
ever, especially when he rammed
down the ash lightly with his
thumb. Pity it was so heavy,
though. No doubt he’d get
used to that in time.
He spat over the wheel. It
was the proper thing to spit
when one smoked. Spitting was
an art in itself, just as important
as smoking. Charlie went well.
One needn’t feel ashamed of
Charlie —not when he was going
home. Quite a respectable pace.
He spat again. Ah —that was
better —more easily, expertly.
What if Pearly Spence saw
him now! Would she be shocked
at seeing him smoke? Certainly
not —he’d have a new value in
her eyes. Pearly ... He con-
ducted a few of the more diffi-
cult and spectacular rescues, and
they went better with the
tobacco-smoke.
Shadows across the road and
across the brown bare paddocks.
The day was closing in. Lovely
day. Lovely evening. He turned
into the lane and Charlie
forged on faster and yet
smoothly. Jim knocked out the
pipe and put it and the tobacco
into a sugarbag. Realities are
realities, after all. He couldn’t
make display of this treasure
about the house. Mother was a
bit fussy and puritanical about
smoking. Mothers often are.
Jim wasn’t inclined to have it
out —yet —about smoking. He’d
have Jane on to him, too, about
it. She’d side with Mother, of
course. If anything, she’d be
worse.
Some suckers of a peppermint-
gum grew in the lane. He pulled
up and secured a handful of the
rich, oily leaves. Eucalyptus hid
anything. He chewed the leaves
and rubbed mouth and hands
with them. It was anticlimax,
but necessary.
OTHER and Jane were
waiting at the sliprails.
They were not pleased. Evi-
dently they had been anxious
about him; and anxiety now
turned to nagging.
“My word—you have been a
long time.” That was Jane firing
the first shot,
“What on earth have you been
doing?” That was Mother.
Jim felt sulkiness creeping
over him. “Weil, I had a lot of
things to do.”
“Umph!” said Jane most ex-
pressively,
“You have the pollard?
We’re waiting for it.”
“The what?”
“Pollard! ” Mother repeated
it more loudly, “Pollard!”
“You said to get the flour.”
“What’s that in the cart?”
“Flour.”
Jane took it up. She fairly
screamed. “Flour! ”
Mother went into a cold
analysis of the position. “Do
you mean to say that you went
to the mill and didn’t get the
pollard?”
It was all clear enough now
to Jim. He was remembering
now, though for the life of him
he couldn’t recall what the price
of pollard was. That didn’t
matter much —he had forgotten
to bring the pollard.
“And those?” Jane was
nastily cold again and pointing
at the other two bags.
“Potatoes and onions”—in
sullen defiance.
That was the finish. Mother
called Jim a muttonhead. A
name particularly offensive to
the possessor of a silver-banded
Roff and a quarter-pound plug
of Coronet. Mother said she
was much minded to send him
straight back to town to get the
pollard. And Jane thought that
unwise—he’d be sure to forget
again. Mother thought that
likely enough, and again de-
clared Jim was a muttonhead.
It was a sad homecoming.
Jim thought of running away.
He’d be appreciated a little more
elsewhere. “Muttonhead”
rankled. If Jane dared to use
the term he would run away.
JIM had his tea. It was given
to him by Jane on the un-
spoken understanding that it was
a terrible waste of good food.
And how the devil, he re-
flected, had he come to mix up
the instructions about pollard?
One thing he wouldn’t do, and
that was blame himself. That
saved him the deeper humilia-
tion.
But Mother and Jane kept at
him and at him. He refused to
answer, at last, but the nagging
went on, with cutting sneers
about rabbitskins and they
being all that some people were
good for. “Like those Smiths,”
said Jane in truly malicious in-
spiration. That was it —just like
the Smiths. She painted a pic-
ture of Jim developing along the
lines of Alby. Just like that —
only worse.
That was the end. Jim broke
down and sobbed. He knew it
was a keen satisfaction to Jane,
but he couldn’t help it. He
sobbed and sobbed.
He was a little boy again.


mmsi
m
fm
•:liH : i;-(]lf
mm
k'f r
'I
10*
m
35-
lii
a
s'-
m
SS&
Ife
gem
I'9
There’s a
GEM
to suit every pocket
Whether you prefer the streamlined chrome
set, complete with stropper, or a less preten-
tious set, you are assured of the same keen
shave. The super-keen Gem blades of
surgical steel and the automatic shaving
angle of the razor give you a skin-level
shave that avoids 5 o’clock shadow.
9 Gem de luxe Chrome Strop Outfit with auto-
matic stropper, as illustrated above, complete
with 8 Gem Double Life Blades, in ivory
plastic gift case, 35/-.
• Gem chromium-plated streamline model in
handsome case of ivory plastic with 5 Gem
Double Life Blades, 20/-.
9 Gem Razor with two Gem Double Life Kinder
in serviceable bakelite case, 3/-.
9 Gem Razor, complete with 2 Gem Double Life
Blades, 1/6.
9 Gem Automatic Stropper, as illustrated, 10/-
each.
9 Packet of 5 Gem Double Life Blades of sturdy,
surgical steel last longer, shave keener, 1/9.
Obtainable at all Stores, Jewellers, Tobacconists
and Chemists.
BUM
FONDE
&
EN 1724
REMY MARTIN
V.S.O.P. COGNAC BRANDY
Of rare age and vintage quality seldom
before ( if ever f imported into Aus-
tralia. Obtainable at most retailers.
SUNDRY SHOWS
Nine-by-fives.
interior with its warm tones and
cool, clear, graded light.
Between those pauses one
notes the lazy heat of Douglas
Pratt’s “On the Page River” ;
the chiselled patterns and color
of Robert Johnson’s landscapes ;
the shimmering light recorded
by Arthur Murch; the facile,
glassy landscapes of Kenneth
Mac Queen; William Dargie’s
“O.F.’': A panel of paintings
from the original Roberts-
Streeton-Conder nine - by - five
exhibition of 1889 is included in
the current nine-by-five display
at the Grosvenor Galleries,
Sydney, and there is nothing in
the whole show quite so lovely
as Conder’s “Blossoms,” with
the warmth and exquisite
fragility of its grass and slender
trees, and the brilliant colors of
the blossoms, touched in with
poetic economy and grace.
Like several other paintings,
those of Streeton seem too com-
pressed in nine-inches-by-five—
like a giant trying to move in a
cell—but there are two Roberts
(of bluff headlands pushing
into the sea) which, within their
limited size, are full of strength
and beauty.
Passing to the present day one
pauses at Norman Lindsay’s
“Ballet,” with its flying brilliant
colors, and “Promenade,” with
its golden shower of light; at
Lance Solomon’s “Summer
Time,” with its buildings and
trees caught in a grey haze of
heat; at G. K. Townshend’s
“Landscape, Dee Why,” with an
almost liquid pool of light
spreading over the cloud-shaded
earth; at Leonard Long’s
“Break in the Weather,” with
its mixture of red earth,
trees and storm and sunlight,
and “Nowra Landscape,” with
blue hills and hazy distance
creeping forward to meet a fore-
ground of river and earth and
trees ; and at Robert Johnson’s
paintings, too
heavy with blue
and green for
their restricted
size; Alfred
Cook’s arrange-
ment of landscape
into formal pat-
terns of light and
shade, and of yel-
low, green and
brown ; th e
cradles of mist in
Woodward
Smith’s “Misty
Morning”; the
sunlight caught
between the trees
and water in
John Loxton’s
“Macarr’s Creek,
Pittwater”; and
Nora Hey sen’s
flowerpiece,
which seems to
have been sub-
edited for space.
One notes a lot
more paintings in the exhibi-
tion—some ineffectual, some
affected, most of them pleasant,
and several of them charming—
and one departs with the agree-
able impression that the broad,
tranquil stream of art goes on
comparatively undisturbed by the
queer fish which leap from its
surface from time to time.
“0.F.”: Over the rather
cheerful medley of do-this and
try-that which dominates the
12th annual exhibition of Jos
Holloway’s sketch club there is
one high, serene note of beauty.
It is provided by Lance Solo-
mon’s “The Wet Season,” a
small landscape full of sensitive
observation and exquisitely
painted. There are mud and
pools of water and an old red
road running into a grey land-
scape with perfectly - placed
trees; above are clouds heavy
with rain, and between them and
the earth a curtain of rain with
light behind it. The simple, deli-
cate treatment which transforms
the scene into a little gem of art
I PA6&H
sTAT Tooet I
\ tAOv /
"Haven't I seen you before somewhere?"
is astonishing, and, perhaps un-
fairly, one cannot quite recover
from the astonishment while
considering the rest of the exhi-
bition. John Salvana has several
landscapes, most of them too
heavy in mood and with paint
for their size—where the mood
is more restful and paint
smoother, as in the greens, golds
and browns of “Autumn,” the
effect is quite pleasing. Several
watercolors by John Parkinson,
Norman J. Forrester and R.
Tulloch seem to have more ready
facility about their execution
and not enough observation and
feeling; Stephen Sims almost
captures a ray of sunlight on a
poplar without saying anything
worth while about its surround-
ings, and H. Pugmire does much
the same thing a little better in
“Slopes of Cambewarra.”
* * * *
Arthur Boyd has another show
of pictures at the Stanley Coe
Galleries, Melbourne. His large
canvases packed with figures
like “The Mockers,” “The
Mourners,” “The Golden Calf”
and “The Agony in the Garden,”
which show the influence of
Breughel, are more interesting
than his large Australian land-
scapes like “The Grampians,” ’
“Burnt Wheat Stubble,
Wimmera,” and “The Wheat-
field.” At the same time, though,
Mr. Boyd’s pictures are deriva-
tive of Breughel. They are more
derivative of that painter’s sub-
ject-matter than of his observa-
tion, which was of Breughel’s
own world. To be more deriva-
tive of Breughel in the real sense
Mr. Boyd would have to study
his own world more. The pea-
sants, cows and horses Breughel
put into his pictures were the
peasants, cows and horses he
saw around him, not the
peasants, cows and horses he had
seen in somebody else’s pictures,
* * * *
Holding a joint show at the
Victorian Artists’ Society’s
gallery are the Belmont Group,
all students of Max Meldrum.
Having, so to speak, learnt a
language from a particular
master, they naturally speak it
with much the same accent, and
looking round the show one
might easily conclude, except for
minor differences, that all the
pictures had been painted by the
same hand, but this is not im-
portant. It is what they say that
is important, and there are some
very fine statements in this ex-
hibition and nothing banal. In
No. 22, Peter Glass gives a
sensitive description of light
filtering through trees, and his
“Autumn Afternoon, Eltham”
looks like Eltham, as does Alan
Martin’s “Bridge, Eltham,”
though the bridge is missing.
Ron Crawford’s “Carrum
Beach” and “Gladioli” are a
trifle stiff, but Ida Meldrum’s
“Seascape, Hampton,” is fresh
and bright, while Ken Thomson’s
“Azaleas” and “Road, Don-
caster” have the same quality of
observation as “Yarra River,” by
Russell Foreman, the editor oi
the book on Meldrum.
* * * *
“F.S.”: The critic who re-
cently remarked apropos of
Roland Wakelin’s pictures that
he retained a “lingering sus-
picion that subject-matter does
count, and that the suburbs are
not very interesting as a nude is
interesting,” can rest assured that
it does count, but only as a
factor in the artist’s choice of
what he paints and the layman’s
reaction to his picture. Roland
Wakelin likes painting suburbs,
Russell Drysdale likes painting
soil-erosion pictures, Charles
Wheeler likes painting nudes,
Velasquez liked painting the
features of Philip the Fourth’s
mug and Rembrandt liked paint-
ing his own. These likes are
associationally determined, and
some associational liking for
bent trees may drive a
Corot to paint the same
old bent tree half his lifetime.
An artist can’t paint a subject
he can’t feel, but the thing that
matters is the aesthetic content —
how well he does it. Michel-
angelo put it in a nutshell when
he said that he would sooner
paint a fish in the market-place
well than an archangel badly ;
but he would have brought the
same skill to the fish as he would
to the archangel. Some
“moderns” bring no more skill
to their strange exotic subject-
matter than they do to a cup
and saucer, but —inasmuch as
exotic subject-matter, like fat
women with pinheads, soil-
erosion and dismal - looking
suburbs, is all the fashion —they
get away with it,
Igor Hmelnitsky.
The programme the pianist set
himself at his Sydney Con.
recital was a long and exacting
one, and the technical and inter-
pretative difficulties with which
it abounded had a formidable
concentration in the Twelve
Studies, Opus 8, of Scriabin.
The bold chordal formations
which invest so much of the
piano works of this composer,
and in which he often went even
beyond Chopin, suited the
vigorous style of the pianist;
most of them he urged along
with the nervous energy which
they specially conjure.
In general they were given
masterly treatment, the tonal
masses built up with fine skill
and the phrasing stylish.
Numbers four and five, both in
the major key, could have been
given with rather more abandon,
and the ninth, in G sharp
minor, was allowed to drag a
little. Those, however, were
minor blemishes. The 12th, in
D sharp minor, was given with
great power.
Beethoven’s Sonata Op. 27
(“The Moonlight”) was accorded
traditional treatment generally,
the opening adagio dreamily
wrought, the middle movement
limpid and bright. In the presto
the spirit of agitation and terror
was well captured, though there
could have been less violence in
the contrasts where the fast
work is repeatedly interrupted
by the two crashing chords.
One of Chopin’s most poetic
short-long works, the splendid
Fantasia in F Minor, Op. 49,
was a judicious admixture of
strength and delicacy, and the
good work was continued into
the same composer’s Waltz
Brillante Op. 34 and the C Sharp
Minor Polonaise.
Ignaz Friedman’s tasteful
arrangement of Schubert’s “Alt-
Wien,” the Paganini - Liszt
“Campanella” and a Poeme by


Comes the
Comrade!
What is it like to have
conquering Russians move
into your home, sleep—muddy
boots on - in your living
room, go berserk in your
kitchen, make passes at you
in the hall.
December Reader’s Digest
brings you a 23-page book
condensation of Alexandra
Orme’s dramatic account of
what happened when Reds
“liberated” her tiny Hungar-
ian village. Here is a true
picture of what Russian
occupation really means.
Your whole family will en-
joy December Reader’s Digest
—3O stimulating, informative
articles from leading maga-
zines, current books. One
shilling and sixpence. All
newsagents and bookstalls.
Rupture
Sufferers —try the new Roussel Free. I
Enables you to do hard work with I
comfort and security. Definitely I
holds, a condition absolutely necessary I
for improvement.
Recommended by doctors and thou- I
sands of satisfied users. Satisfaction I
guaranteed, no matter where you live. I
FREE
Call or send stamp for
FREE details, self-measure-
ment form and H days’ free trial
offer. No obligation.
The Roussel Appliance Co.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
f
Circular Charti for all typ««
of Recording Instrument*
•or injr cUsa of Hichutag
or Equlpmant
METER CHARTS • Specialty
JXLtiWWtf OSUIU
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
CHRISTMAS
SUGGESTIONS
for Summer Evenings . . .
TUXEDOS
in the new fashionable fawn toning.
Made of English all wool tropical
weight taffeta, these Tuxedos are cut
in double breasted style with smart
collar line, £B/2/-. Also in Grey.
Price, £B/16/-.
ACCESSORIES
Marcella Dress Shirts to wear with
Tuxedos with collar attached and soft
double cuffs, 33/6 and 39/-. Artificial
carnations in maroon, 4/6. Dress
studs, black or maroon, sets of two,
4/3. Black dress sets: links and two
studs, 17/-.
; I
• mm
V
X
FOR CASUAL WEAR
Genuine Fuji Silk Shirts with new long pointed, low setting
collar attached. One pocket, full sleeves. Collar sizes 14in.
to 17iin., 52/6. With American two way collar, two pockets
with flaps, half-sleeves. Sizes S.M. to X. 0.5., 43/6.
Aertex Shirts. Unique cellular weave lets the body breathe.
Prevents clinging, extra comfort, longer wear. Does not shrink
nor lose its shape. Sizes to 17in. collar. Price, half-
sleeves, 26/-; full sleeves, 35/-.
PITH HELMETS
Pith Helmet, made in India, covered
with khaki drill. Light in weight,
cool and completely ventilated,
41/6. Similar to above but covered
in quilted khaki, 50/-. Tropical
helmets, made in England, covered
in white or khaki drill, 27/6.
HAIR BRUSHES
Military Hair Brushes by Kent of
England. Guaranteed genuine
Siberian hog bristle. With iron
wood back, 38/6. Satin wood back
and handle, 49/6. Satinwood, 89/6.
Oval satinwood back, 96/-.
SPORTS TROUSERS
Australian made, smartly cut, well finished in
fawn all wool worsteds, 71/6. In fawn all wool
gabardine, 90/6. In medium or light grey
worsteds, 91/6. Grey or light fawn “Zev” sports
trousers, 95/-.
SUPPERS
Black Albert and
Grecian slippers,
20/6. Black and
tan Alberts, 30/6,
36/6, 38/6. Black and tan Grecians, 30/6, 36/6.
With Veldt Shoen Soles. Black and tan Alberts,
31/-. Black and tan Grecians, 30/-. Sizes sto
10 in half sizes.
PEAPES Pty. Ltd.
285 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
Opposite Hunter Street
Address Mail Orders to Box 165, G.P.0., Sydney
In*
Godowski added spice to the
programme, but three small
platefuls of Gershwin brought a
wry taste to the palate.
St. George Choir's
"Messiah."
Grand as the grand-organ may
be, it can never command the
same flexibility, the light and
shade and the delicacy of a full
symphony orchestra —qualities
most vital to a work like the
“Messiah.” Nevertheless, and
except for occasional over-
eagerness in tempo, Leonard
Bell did an excellent job with
the instrument when he supplied
the accompaniments to the
soloists and the choral numbers
provided by the St. George
Choral Society, augmented by
the Central Methodist Mission
Choir at Sydney Town Hall.
The massed voices had good
weight and balance, a joyous
buoyancy informing their “Unto
Us a Child Is Born” and “Lift
Up Your Heads,” while the
crescendo passages of “And the
Glory of the Lord” were quite
inspiring. Where the more delicate
touch was needed, as in “His
Yoke Is Easy” and “He Trusted
In God,” there was the necessary
refinement in tonal values.
Although the microphone and
amplifiers were not always kind
to the soloists, they sang well
after one or two uncertain starts
because of indifferent syn-
chronisation with the organ.
Ronald Dowd’s “Comfort Ye”
and “They Rebuke” were his
best numbers; Noel Melvin’s
bass was raised with good reson-
ance in “Thus Saith the Lord”
and “But Who May Abide.”
Mary Thomas sang “Come Unto
Him” with fine fervor and a
good round tone, and the con-
tralto, Tessa Schell, was impres-
sive in “Behold a Virgin.”
N.S.W. Youth
Orchestra and Choir.
Under Professor Carl Sauer’s
conductorship, this orchestra
and choir combined in a concert
at Sydney Town Hall. The
orchestra has considerable
talent, and is being given a
thorough grounding in the light
classics. Such an item as the
Finale from Beethoven’s Fifth
Symphony may seem rather
ambitious, but this and Rubin-
stein’s “Kamenoi Ostrow” —
which the orchestra has per-
formed before —were given with
plenty of spirit. Poet and
Peasant Overture was slightly
ragged in patches, but the Over-
ture to Zampa found Professor
Sauer’s forces in much better
form,
Handel’s vast compendium of
music, “The Messiah,” is one of
the few works which could have
withstood the onslaught of the
2000 voices which were directed
at it the other evening when
choral societies and church
choirs from almost every suburb
filled the main hall and balconies
of Melbourne Town Hall under
John Farnsworth Hall’s baton.
There was an orchestra there,
too, and an organ and a small
island of soloists comprising
soprano Betna Pontin, contralto
Lex Faichnie, basso Keith
Neilson and tenor Eric Mitchel-
son. Since few of the assembled
bodies had ever sung the work
together, the degree of unanimity
obtained was an amazing as the
skill with which Mr. Hall con-
trolled his many-headed monster,
only occasionally putting in a
few stage directions. The volume
attained in some of the choruses
literally shook the building.
* * * *
Neither the train-strike nor
fear of sunstroke —one or two
copped it- —deterred music-lovers
assembling 20,000 strong in the
Botanic Gardens, Melbourne,
for the latest Music for the
People concert on the hottest
Sunday for about 10 years. The
sun went round in a fiery ring
and the shadows of the trees
shifted with it, while the Austra-
lian Symphony Orchestra under
Hector Crawford’s baton played
its repertoire from Verdi,
Schubert, Offenbach, Puccini,
Strauss and Mozart. David
Allen, baritone, and soprano
Kathleen Goodall, as soloists,
sent their vioces through the
heated air in operatic numbers,
and there were fewer interrup-
tions from the ducks on the lake
than usual. They were probably
wondering why human-beings
take their pleasures sadly.
"The Magistrate."
Arthur Wing Pinero, who
wrote upwards of 60 plays which
were eminently successful in
their generation and two or three
of which may have had per-
manent qualities in them, wrote
this one 65 years ago apparently
in order to show up the
iniquities of the laws regarding
having a drink on unlicensed
premises. No doubt it was a
burning question then as it is
now, and Londoners probably
split their sides laughing at the
predicament of Agatha Posket,
Charlotte Verrender, Achille
Blond and Colonel Lukyn, com-
pelled to violate the proprieties
by hiding under tables from the
lynx eyes of Inspector Messiter.
Today the play is liable to evoke
more tears at its badness than
laughter at its humor, and one
wonders why the Melbourne
National Theatre bothered to
revive it.
"The Wild Duck."
A member of the Melbourne
University Conservatorium
Drama Group regretted that this
play of Ibsen’s hadn’t been put
on at the well-equipped Union
Theatre instead of the little Tallis
Theatre, where the equipment
was next to nothing. If it had
been it probably wouldn’t have
been us good as it was. The
interior of Werle’s house and the
people in it looked remarkably
real. If there had been more
lighting facilities they would
probably have looked artificial.
In the hands of enthusiastic
amateurs, full of feeling and lost
in their parts, old Ekdal,
Hjalmar Ekdal, Gina Ekdal,
Hedvig and Relling looked like
themselves, and one could be-
come interested in the problem
Ibsen was interested in—which
was the problem of guilt rele-
gated to the unconscious and
manifesting itself in all sorts of
symbolic acts. The symbol in
this case is the wild duck which,
when wounded, dives to the
bottom of a lake to die.
Gina Ekdal is obsessed by a
feeling of guilt at having been
the mistress of a man who be-
comes her husband’s benefactor.
Her husband feels it is tainted
money, and when he finds that
there is no certainty that Hedvig
is his daughter and might be the
daughter of his benefactor she
seems to be tainted, and he
manipulates the situation by
metaphorically diving to the
bottom of a lake and dying. He
walks out of his own house.
Hedvig feels herself to be both
tainrer and tainted and removes
the taint by shooting herself.
James O’Donbghue, as Hjal-
mar, Carmel Dunn, as Gina, and
Anne Hawthorne, as Hedvig,
made the principal parts
moving studies. Norman Wooll-
ard, as Relling, the doctor, and
Alex Scott, as the half-cracked
student of theology, were equally
good in their small parts.
TALKIES
"Commanche
Territory."
Maureen O’Hara, complete
with luxurious red hair, buck-
skins and technicolor, is the
pivot of this opus at Sydney
Victory. The town of Crooked
Tongue in the wild, wild west
is her address, and thereabouts
she owns a ranch, runs the bank,
the pub, the gambling saloon,
swings a fist like a jackhammer,
draws quicker ’n a rattlesnake
and, for amusement, takes bets
that she can’t gallop through the
town carrying a tray and two
glasses of beer without spilling
a drop. Along with that she
aids and abets her brother in
destroying a document which, it
seems, is a kind of treaty be-
tween Andrew Jackson and the
Commanche Indians ensuring
that the latter will be undis-
turbed in their native territory,
despite the fabulous veins of
silver under it.
Into Miss O’Hara’s exciting
orbit rides MacDonald Carey,
as Jim Bowie, designer of the
lethal-looking knife which bears
his name. Mr. Bowie’s object is
to preserve the peace between
the Indians and President Jack-
son, and he succeeds to the point
of winning the O’Hara over to
his cause, when her brother
short-circuits the operation by
moving-in on the Indians. The
ensuing rumpus, by the old
standards of cowboys and
Indians and chewing-gum and
peanuts, is not nearly exciting
enough to justify the fadeout
clinch.
"Where the
Sidewalk Ends."
Dana Andrews figures in this
offering (sighted at Sydney May-
fair) as a cop with a complex.
It appears that his father was a
crook who shot it out with the
police once too often, an event
which left Mr. Andrews hating
all crooks, hated by crooks and
determined to be an honest cop.
His determination manifests it-
self in the habit of beating-up
suspected criminals so vigorously
that even the police force itself
admonishes him about it.
Undeterred, Mr. Andrews
smacks a savage right into the
solar of a suspected murderer
with such enthusiasm that he
drops him permanently ; he then
disposes of the body and closes
his mouth even tighter than he
usually seems to do on the
screen. Unfortunately, the dead
man’s wife is the beautiful Gene
Tierney, and, even more unfor-
tunately, her father is nabbed on
the suspicion of murdering his
son-in-law, all of which cul-
minates in the Tierney spalling
irresistible tears in Mr.
Andrews’s soup, what time he
gazes down at her from lidded
eyes not unlike a lovelorn
llama.
There are no prizes for gues-
sing the solution to that situa-
tion, which is decorated with
mild excitement from time to
time whenever Mr. , Andrews
meets up with his archenemy,
played by Gary Merrill, who
impersonates villainy by con-
tinually inserting an inhaler up
one nostril or the other, breath-
ing deeply and then leering while
holding his head as far to one
side as he possibly can without
falling over.


Women's Letters
from Melbourne
The John Kaufmans gave a luncheon-
party at Menzies’ to Mrs. A. A. Lord,
who has returned from England, where
she was the guest of Lord and Lady
Dugan, former vice-regals of this State —
that popular couple, incidentally, delight
m keeping in touch with the real Aus-
tralian atmosphere, they tell Mrs. Lord,
per medium of The Bulletin. The
hostess wore a navy chiffon frock and
small matching hat simply trimmed with
veiling and pearl-pins. The guest-of-
honor highlighted her powder-blue silk
frock with gold accessories and a wide-
brimmed white straw hat. The Lady
Mayoress, Mrs. J. S. Disney, was in a
jacket-suit of lime-green linen boldly
patterned in a black-etched Egyptian
design. Mrs. J. J. Daly’s black chiffons
had a lace yoke heavily outlined with jet
beads. Her daughter Marie, who was
Mrs. Lord’s travelling companion through
England and the Continent, wore a Paris
frock of junior-blue sheer which had a
wide white fichu collar of self-patterned
organza and a matching grosgrain hat
lined with white. Mrs. G. Hain wore
pastel-floral chiffons, Lois Lathlean pale-
lime-green linen and a matching straw
hat, Mollie Mclnnes a frock of caramel-
toned silk patterned in black, and Peggy
Teilick a pastel silk frock with a white
silk straw hat.
Melbourne Grammar School Chapel
was the setting for the wedding of
Patricia, elder daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
A. F. H. Davis, of St. Kilda-road. The
bride’s gown was of white Swiss
embroidered pique, the fitting bodice of
the frock cut away to short puff sleeves
and the pencil-slim skirt finished with a
full overskirt. Her tulle veil was arranged
Juliet fashion, and she carried gardenias.
Bridesmaids were her sister Barbara, Sue
Spry and Katherine Aikman ; they wore
ice-blue organdie frocks with tiny boleros
with wing collars finishing the strapless
bodices, whilst their matching blue moire
hats carried lilac blossoms. The ’groom,
who is the only son of Mr. and Mrs. H. S.
Hawes, of Camberwell, had James Tait
as best man and Alan Hunt and Geoff
Henke as groomsmen. Reception was at
the Delphic.
At the British Memorial Fund cocktail-
party held to thank all those who helped
with the successful function at Wood-
stock, which assisted not only this
organisation but also the Eye and Ear
Hospital, Mrs. Gillam Hunt was given
a presentation, prior to her sailing last
week on the Goonawarra for a trip over-
seas. She expects to be away eight months.
Mrs. Gillam Hunt is a member of the
B. the Playgrounds Association and
the Red Cross. In Geneva she hopes to
meet again fellow-worker Kathleen Gepp,
who is with the Red Cross in that city.
Before the B.M.F. party, Mrs. Gillam
Hunt was entertained at afternoon-tea by
the Lady Mayoress, Mrs. J. S. Disney.
Mrs. G. W. Paton, wife of Professor
Patou, the new Vice-Chancellor of the
University, graduated a Bachelor of
Science in this city, and is the mother of
three daughters and a son. For some
time she was on the executive of the
Free Kindergarten Union and was a
board member of the Women’s Hospital,
but had to give up these duties to care
for her family. Shortly after the e*nd of
the war, Mrs. Paton helped to form a
nursery school in the university grounds,
and she has been chairman since its
foundation. Living in the grounds of the
university, Mrs. Paton has enjoyed mak-
ing her home a centre of university life,
and has given frequent after-lunch
coffee-parties for academic, administra-
tive and secretarial sections of the uni-
versity staff. As the Vice-Chancellor’s
wife she intends now to ensure that uni-
versity people and those outside are
brought closer together. Mrs. Paton’s
hobbies are handwork, for she makes
many of her children’s clothes, tapestry
and similar work. A lover of the theatre,
Mrs. Paton attends most of the Tin Alley
Players’ productions and play readings.
The lovely garden of Surrey Lodge,
Emerald, home of the Les Sangsters, was
the setting for a party which began with
a barbecue luncheon and ended with a
buffet supper. Unusual additions to the
chops and steaks were an Egyptian meat
dish cooked in cabbage-leaves and an
Arabic dish of savory meat cooked in
leaves. These culinary concoctions were
the work of the hostess’s sister, Mrs. Bill
Payne, who lived some time in Cairo.
Gay silks and cottons covered most of the
female guests. Mrs. Sangster’s pale beige
linen sun frock was just right; so was Mrs.
Bill McDermott’s pale amethyst linen.
. Laura Smcdley chose a very attractive
frock of silk, patterned in brilliant flower
tones > an d Mrs. Alan Bernaldo’s pale
yellow and black checked silk frock was
topped with a natural straw hat. Sand
beige linen fashioned the frock chosen by
M rs - W. Plowright, and Alice Wyatt
chos£ the ever-popular navy and white
for her smart ensemble. Mrs. Gray Staley
wore black linen and Mrs. S. Aarons a
B a Y floral sun frock and matching
bolero.
One of the mannequins at the parade
of Ecstasy creations was Barbara Hughes,
niece of the managing-director of the
firm, and only daughter of Mr. I. B.
Hughes, of Camberwell. Barbara, who
was educated at Ruyton, is tall and
graceful, and it needs only a ala nee at
the accompanying Athol Shmith photo
to see that not only her figure takes the
eye when she models beautiful clothes.
Swimming and tennis keep Barbara fit.
When Jeanette Brooks arrived at the
Village Theatre, Toorak, for the preview
of “Four Steps in the Clouds,” she revived
a fashion popular some years ago. Over
her white pique frock, with a square neck
outlined with eyelet embroidery, she wore
a powder-blue silk shawl embroidered in
pink roses. She was accompanied by
Betty Everard, who also sponsored the
shawl fashion, matching her burgundy
silk gown with a shawl edged with wide
bands of turquoise-blue crepe. The pre-
view was sponsored by the Toorak Junior
Auxiliary to the Women’s Hospital, and
their patroness, Mrs. E. M. Cornfoot,
was present in a slim fitting black crepe
gown cut with a deep square neckline
and wide shoulder-straps. Acting presi-
dent of the Auxiliary, Mrs. Noel Thomas,
chose a soft powder-blue crepe gown,
and the treasurer, Judith Silk, looked
charming in white with the bodice em-
broidered in pastel tonings. Madame
Reshid Bey was with her artist husband,
and she chose a chiffon frock brilliantly
patterned in green, blue and red floral
design. Mrs. John Chaldjian chose a
ballerina frock of black Chantilly lace and
was with Mrs. John Shaw, whose choice
was ice-blue crepe, with white lilac high-
lighting the bodice. Mrs. Bryan Foster
chose pastel-blue taffeta, and Mrs. E.
Thonneman pastel-blue patterned with
red circles. Mrs. A, Colman wore a
simple frock of black chiffon and lace.
Mr. and Mrs. W. J. Darragh, of
Downton Grove, Kew, have issued in-
vitations for the marriage of their only
daughter, Jean, to Warwick, younger son
of the late Mr. and Mrs. George Wathen.
Marriage will be celebrated at St. Mark’s,
Camberwell, on December 21, and the
reception will be held at the Kew home
of Jean’s brother Alan. Jean, who is a
member of Kooyong Club, shares her
tennis interests with Warwick, who is also
a keen golfer and winner of many
trophies.
The Australian Apparel Retailers’ Con-
vention ran for a week at the Mount-
batten, and clothes for every occasion
were featured. The last day was devoted
to showing frocks suitable for cocktail-
parties and frothy bouffant gowns for
more formal wear. Included in the col-
lection w'ere gowns for the woman usually
overlooked—the not-so-slender—and they
gave the larger figure slenderised lines and
made it as fashionable as the more stream-
lined figure. One of the most outstanding
models was fashioned of finely-striped
pink and green taffeta, with a bayadere
pattern of black and white. Outlining
the strapless bodice were black satin
bobbles, and the full skirt had a bustle.
Over this was worn a waist-length jacket
of black velvet, also finished with black
bobbles.
Capes were popular in this collection.
With a ballerina frock of white moire
taffeta was worn a tiny cape of the same,
with black lace outlining the neckline. On
the swirling skirt there was a wide Van
Dyke band of fine black lace, and the
bodice, highlighted with narrow straps,
was misted with black lace.
From Sydney
Sydneysiders are so thankful to have
some seasonable weather at last that
there have been few complaints about the
heat. Besides, the sun has brought out
all the flowerlike summer clothes that
make Sydney crowds as good as a
pageant.
So many Christmas parties, each with
a different flavor. The Newman Associa-
tion combined theirs with the annual
election of officers and so made the elec-
tion pleasantly informal. Barrister Jock
McClemens was unopposed for president.
New secretary is Jean Delaney (who
looked angelic in heaven blue). Irene
Manton is treasurer. Good talk from
the company, which included the Harry
Dalys, Denis Kevins, Mary Hegarty,
Father McNally and the Len Lochrins.
made it a good party.
At the Royal Empire Society’s party
real Christmas-trees grew gaily all along
the entrance hall; even the lift was
bedecked with flowers. There was a dis-
tinguished assembly of over 300 people,
including the Premier, the Lord Mayor
and Lady Mayoress, at least one Admiral
and one Brigadier-General, and (receiving
the guests) the P. C. Spenders (Mrs.
Spender pretty as a sweetpea in pink). At
the head of the receiving-line were the F.
E. Mannings, assisted by Miss Elizabeth
Plummer, Mrs. Norman Jenkyn, Mrs.
Keighley, and Mrs. Allen Williams, the
latter in blue tie-silk shot with red, and
rosy flowers in her hat. The Rev. “Black
Robbie” Robertson was present with Mrs.
Robertson, both happy because their
daughter Pauline, who is Mrs. Keith
Alder, is on her way to Australia.
This is Jean Garling, whose delightful
book Australian Notes on the Ballet will
make its debut next Monday. Published
by Legend Press, it is illustrated by Daryl
Lindsay and William Constable, with a
foreword by Eugene Goossens. Jean,
who is an experienced dancer herself,
travelled with the National Ballet in Vic-
toria to get local color for her book.
During the war she served with the A.I.F.
as a physiotherapist, for which she is
fully trained. Nowadays, however, she
devotes her time entirely to writing (“ex-
cept when people get stuck,” she says),
her major work being the ballet section
of the Australian Encyclopaedia. Aus-
tralian Notes on the Ballet offers a charm-
ing commentary on the dance in Australia
from 1833 to the present day, and is the
best reason we’ve heard yet for post-
poning some Christmas shopping till
December 18. John Lee photograph.
Remark by a cultured lady at the open-
ing night of “Message for Margaret”:
“So naughty of the audience to troop in
late after the first interval. Fortunately
the leading lady was only reading poetry,
so it didn’t matter.”
A blazing hot day followed by a rain-
storm didn’t scare people from the annual
party of the United Services Institution at
the barracks, where Christmas-bells were
the decoration and dancing vied with
talking for chief attraction. There was a
large attendance of ex-officers from World
War II in addition to the many who
haven’t missed this party for years.
Major Keith Morris was there with Mrs.
Morris and son Barry. Mrs. J. H. Berry-
man wore black with a lattice-work yoke.
Anne McCauley was in apple-green.
The Christmas Toy Party of the Over-
seas League brought in hundreds of
presents for children in Day Nurseries.
Some of the dolls were exquisitely dressed.
One member said it took her longer to
dress her doll than to make a frock for
herself. Mr. J. K. Milner, fresh from
New Zealand, and on his way to England,
gave a spirited address to the members,
and there was a musical programme
presented by Madame Nellie Black, who
has done this service for the League for
the past 15 years.
Causing more panic than the Korean
crisis is a rumor that fares may go up
again. We like the man on the North
Shore who advertised, “Buy a motor-bike
and pay it off. You’ll never own a, tram.*’
The genealogists took time off from
examining family-trees to discuss the
Christmas-tree at their party last week.
Rev. Mr. Beck gave a humorous analysis
of the crest of Santa Claus, piling up story
after story like some Scheherazade with an
engaging Scottish burr. Mrs. J. H. Fraser
welcomed the guests at the association’s
quaint old-world cellar-rooms in Phillip-
street, where one expected the shade of
Charles Dickens to appear at any moment.
At the Queen Victoria Club’s Christmas
party the chief guest (after Elizabeth
Northcott) was violinist Cathleen
O'Carrol, who has been awarded the
club’s travelling scholarship. Cathleen
played for the members and guests, who
were also entertained by sweet, birdlike
carols from the three O’Reilly sisters.
President Mrs. George Bardsley, who
wore navy with a very dashing navy-and-
white hat, helped the Governor’s
daughter to cut the Christmas cake. All
the guests were seated at beautifully-
decorated tables, Mrs. Stanley Wilson’s
starring little Christmas-trees and a gift
for everyone.
Advice to those about to cut their hair
—don’t. The glamor-spy says that by
the end of next year women will be
growing their hair and wearing chignons.
One of the pleasantest aspects of this
time of the year is the handing-out of
cheques to the charitable organisations
for which committees have been working
all the year. The nine organisations
which benefited by the Lady Mayoress’s
Fund received their cheques last Thurs-
day, all partaking of the £2330 which the
energetic committee had collected.
The Anti-T.B. Senior Women’s Com-
mittee, with its usual flair for novelty,
presented their £lOOO cheque to Mr.
Lazarus for the Anti-T.B. Clinic at a
billy tea in the half-completed new clinic.
This gave the members a chance to see
the work that is being done for the
patients, as they went on a tour of in-
spection, led by doctors and members of
the board. Mrs. Millard Hagon spoke
forcefully of the cause and of the happy
relationship that existed within the com-
mittee, paying a heartfelt tribute to Miss
Loli Ernst. It was a very hot day, but
the predominating white hats of the com-
mittee members cooled things off a bit.
Unique in Sydney is the Memorial
College, of Flousehold Arts and Sciences,
which presented certificates to its students
last week. President of the council, Dr..
Mary Booth, in her address said that the
college was not a “finishing” school, as
she hoped that the girls would all feel
that they were just beginning to learn,
and that the college had provided for
them a “window" on the world.” Mrs.
Alan Tory, who presented the certificates,
referred to the college’s function as a
memorial to the pioneer women of Aus-
tralia, adding that now what is wanted
are pioneers in the arts, in painting, music,
handcrafts. A tribute was paid to the
retiring principal, Mrs. N. Brook, whose
talents and personality have been so bene-
ficial to the college during the year.
The R.S.P.C.A. has decided not to in-
vestigate anonymous complaints in future,
as experience has shown that these are
generally actuated by sheer spite and a
desire to embarrass other people. The
names of people making complaints are,
of course, to be treated in the utmost
confidence by the Society, which believes,
rightly, that a signature is a guarantee
of good faith.
The just-born N.S.W. Garden Club is
rapidly taking shape. The second meet-
ing, Mrs. Arthur Davis in the chair, dis-
cussed two important points: (1) The
fees, (2) what you get for them. It
was agreed that an annual fee of £1 Is.
for foundation members and 10s. 6d. for
associate members would be a fair thing.
Foundation members, for their extra fee,
may bring one guest free to every func-
tion, associate members must pay for their
guests. Inducements and attractions of
the club: (1) Lectures on garden design
and advice by Reg Edwards, who is to
arrange a garden-quiz evening, (2) ex-
change of surplus plants, builbs, etc., be-
tween members, (3) color films of gardens,
including Kew gardens, (4) tours of
gardens on the North Shore, the Chelten-
ham district and at Bowral, (5) informa-
tion on the making of indoor and veranda
gardens, (6) exhibitions of flower arrange-
ments and demonstrations on how to
arrange flowers. These preliminary aims
will be added to as the club increases in
strength and experience.


E.vi^c
0P5.25
STILL KEEPSeOIMC
when the rest have stoppe
m mm m. ■* . .-x»X
lit every field one performer out
stays all others in stamina and relia-
bility. In batteries it has been Exide
-—since 1888.
BATTERIES
EXIDE
BATTERIES
OF
AUSTRALIA
PTY. LTD.
44 BRIDGE ST.
SYDNEY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Lieutenant David Butler, wounded in
Korea and awarded Uncle Sam’s Silver
Star for gallantry, is one of four fighting
sons of a Perth parson. The oldest lost
his life when cruiser Sydney went down ;
the second was a flight-lieutenant in the
R.A.A.F.; the third, an A.I.F. private.
Starting soldiering in the Wesley College
(Perth) cadet-corps, 22-year-old David
was a doughty footballer and glove-
scrapper before he shaped up to the more
serious business in Korea ; probably he
would have been the State’s Rhodes
Scholar had he not by-passed the Uni-
versity for Duntroon. As for his
character —“A North Korean got me,”
he wrote to his Methodist father, “but no
bones were broken, and I was able to get
back into action.”
Sir Richard Aluwihare, Inspector-
General of Ceylon’s 7000 police, in
Sydney for the Fiji, New Guinea, New
Zealand and Australian police commis-
sioners’ conference, had four years with
the Indian Army in the Kaiser’s scrap,
and was wounded at the Somme. Fifty-
five, he was a first-class cricketer and
Rugby footballer in his day, and in 30
years in the Ceylon Civil Service has held
down a host of jobs, from police-
magistrate and district judge to controller
of finance and collector of Customs.
Colonel Grimshaw, bulldozer - built,
strong-jawed and gimlet-eyed, is New
Guinea’s representative; he bosses the
Royal Papuan Constabulary from Port
Moresby.
That painful bane of limbless Diggers,
phantom-limb, when the patient feels
acute pain in a leg or arm which isn’t
there, is about to be tackled by a panel
of distinguished Melbourne medicoes.
Heading the research Dr. K. C. Bradley,
assistant neuro-surgeon at Melbourne’s
Alfred and lecturer in anatomy at Mel-
bourne University.
Newly-appointed economist for the
’Wales, R. F. Holder is a Coventry
(Eng.) man who specialised in history at
Birmingham University and joined the
bank’s London branch in 1935. He’s
been around since then —investigated the
economic side of the 1937 Queensland
drought, served on the North Coast and
tablelands of the Ma State, observed for
the International Chamber of Commerce
at the E.C.A.F.E. conference at Ootaca-
mund (India), in 1948, and again at the
Lapstone gathering the same year. This
year he has been through Europe, the
U.S. and Canada on his bank’s business.
Thirty-seven, a cricket addict, he succeeds
Professor Hytten.
Looking over Perth, Rt. Rev. Henry
Wolfe Baines, Anglican Bishop of Singa-
pore. Repton and Oxford man, he’s been
East before, chaplain-in-charge of St.
John’s Cathedral, Hong Kong, from
1934-38. From Hong Kong he went back
to Coventry (Eng.), and was there when
the Luftwaffe did their damnedest. He
takes his hobbies quietly—cricket, music
and bird-watching.
“L.W.G.”: Australia owes more to Fred
Christian, who died recently at Christmas Island
(Indian Ocean), than the brief Press mentions
of his death indicated. Assistant-engineer of
the Pacific Phosphate Co. at Ocean Island when
War I broke out, he joined the 7th Field
Company, won the M.C. and Bar, and pioneered
the use of the bangalore-torpedo. Back at
Nauru, in 1930 he completed erection of the
huge storage-bin and the cantilever jetty on the
reef-edge—by their means a ship could start
loading 10,000 tons of crushed phosphate-rock
at daylight and get away before dark. On
December 27, 1940, a German raider let go at
Christian's jetty. Though shaken, his founda-
tions held. Then the raider turned on the big
oil-tanks near by--blazing oil flowed against
the 12,000-ton steel bin which fed the cantilever,
its steel columns softened under the intense
heat a’nd the bin lurched over in ruins. During
War II Christian, undaunted, provided alterna-
tive sources for supply of phosphate, with
temporary storage-depots in Australia, and com-
pleted arrangements at Port Kembla (N.S.W.)
for a chemical works to convert the rock into
superphosphate. And, at the cease-fire, he
rebuilt his installations at Nauru. He was on
his way back from a labor-recruiting flight to
Singapore when a cerebral haemorrhage finished
him at Christmas Island. He was 60.
Running the 31st Battalion (Kennedy
Regiment) in Mackay, Lt. - Colonel
Charles Barton ranges in his recruiting
over an area in a class with Edmund
Herring’s own. Barton’s territory ex-
tends from Ingham to Sarina and far
west to the Territory border. Partner in
a firm of consulting-engineers, Barton
reaches over 6ft., sideways in proportion,
and had six years bridge-designing for
the Queensland Main Roads Commis-
sion before leaving for Palestine and
North Africa, major with the 2/15th
Battalion, Captured near Derna in the
first Tobruk encounter, he saw out the
rest of the war in p.-0.-w. camps in Italy
and Germany. Spare-times at sailing and
soldiering.
Some V.I.P. travellers: To London
with Menzies, P.M., knight Frederick
Shedden, very well rigged for the de-
fence conference —Secretary to the De-
fence Department (comprising Navy,
Army, Air and Munitions branches) and
Secretary to the War Cabinet when war
broke in 1939. Qualified in accountancy
and economics, he’s no seeker of lime-
light, but is highly competent, and has
already visited Britain with S. M.
Bruce, with whom he went on to Geneva.
To Washington with Attlee, P.M., S. C.
Leslie, who achieved fame in England
with his book Front Line, 1940-41 —then
he was holding down a big job in the
British Ministry of Supply. Graduate of
Trinity College, Melbourne, he went to
Oxford as Victorian Rhodes Scholar in
1919, got his Doctorate of Philosophy
there, then held various posts in the Cold
Land and in Melbourne. He also went
to England in the train of High Com-
missioner Bruce, and is now chief of the
British Treasury economic information
unit. Travelling-companion to Washing-
ton, Robert Lowe, also Rhodes Scholar
(Q.), and Chief Economic Adviser to the
British Government.
Hundreds of embryo warbirds who
were fledged at Wagga flying-school will
recall the visage here presented—owned
by “Scherg,” alias F. R. W. Scherger,
newly-promoted air-vice-marshal. He was
Wagga’s C.O. then —having been a
Duntroon graduate turned airman, an
R.A.A.F. chief-flying-instructor, tester of
the first Wirraway built here, and in
NEW MARSHAL.
charge at Darwin when the Japs unloaded
on the sunny morning of February 19,
1942. From Wagga “Scherg” got down
to some practical fighting, leading the 10
Operations Group in New Guinea, and
on its assaults at the Aitape and Noem-
foor Island savagery. An accident re-
turned him to Australia, but he was in
harness again for the Morotai affair, and,
with Allied forces established ashore, took
command of the First Tactical Air Force
there. Now Deputy-Chief of the Air
Staff, D.S.O. and A.F.C., 46, he’s been
in air-force blue for 25 years.
Mel Cowles, victim of Dubois, landed
recently in Sydney to take on the
general-managershio of Vacuum Oil in
N.S.W.; before that he had been head-
serang in the West, and the company’s
rep. in London and New York. Well up
on the chemistry side as well (research
chemist and science graduate from Mel-
bourne University), the new man did a
particularly good war-time job of keep-
ing Allied strength in the S.-W. Pacific
lubricated. At Milne Bay he got ashore
some 18 million gallons of juice, mostly
aviation fuel, to which General Mac-
NEW MANAGER.
Arthur mainly attributed the success of
the Bismarck Sea battle. Cowles joined
the A.I.F. engineers a sapper and ended
as It.-colonel, his responsibility the
supplying of the astronomical gallonage
of petrol and oils used in the landings
from Hollandia right up to the Borneo
business. At the drop of a petrol-cap
he’ll start sparking on all eight on what
he considers the only hobby—trout-
fishing.
Jack Grealish, passed on in Sydney at
67, was one of those newspapermen who
seldom get their names in the paper but
provide the backbone of it. He joined
“Truth” in 1935 and was responsible for
many of its virile articles attacking
public abuses of one form or another.
Before retiring a couple of years ago he
had become well-known and popular in
the N.S.W. Parliamentary Press gallery
and on rounds at Darlinghurst Court. He
could debate as forcefully as he wrote.
For the best published prose work by
a Maoriland author during the past year,
the Hubert Church memorial award goes
to Dr. J, C. Beaglehole. The doctor
wrote the history of Victoria University
College, Wellington.
“Fitz”: Although nearly 20 years
younger than E. H. Stanley (B.
22 / 11/’5O), R. H. Weston (“Jobber”), of
Leura (N.S.W.), appeared in print in The
Bulletin a decade before Stanley.
Weston was 14 when his first par. was
printed in 1897 (it pointed out a mistake
in an Alf Vincent drawing), and he has
been scribbling, mostly for “Aborigi-
nalities,” ever since. A descendant of
Lieut.-Colonel George Johnston, who
came out in the First Fleet and was
A.D.C. to Governor Phillip, as a youth
Weston was with the Commercial Bank,
but laid down his pen to join a brother
on a grazing property by the Nattai
River (N.S.W.). He did a spell as camp-
cook, and carried his swag over
many weary, dry and dusty miles.
There followed hectic days cane-cutting
on sugar-plantations on the Pioneer River
(Q.) and cattle-mustering in the Wide
Bay (Q.) district. In 1914 he enlisted in
the A.1.F., was wounded on Gallipoli,
served with the 68th Squadron, A.F.C., in
France, and was wounded again. After
War II he worked on the Murrumbidgee
Irrigation Area and was later an officer
of the Katoomba (N.S.W.) municipal
council. At his retirement a few years
back he was that council’s publicity-
officer, and has probably written more
about the Blue Mountains than any other
person.
Jack Murray, well known among
mining men, goes to managership of
International Minerals’ West of Scotland
goldmine at Gympie (Q.). Just finished a
five-year manganese-ore survey, he takes
to the new job 30 years’ experience, part
of it in South America.
Russell Drysdale, whose first
London exhibition of Australian o. iback
scenes has won praise from the ciilics, is
the son of a Victorian pastoralist,
though born in Sussex (Eng.) and
schooled there before coming to Geelong
Grammar. He got his art education in
Melbourne, London and Paris, and his
early work shows their influence. It
wasn’t till much later that he abandoned
the pursuit of Cezanne and Picasso and
became obsessed, apparently, with the
problems of soil-erosion and started
nostalgically painting the heat, discom-
fort and aridity of the Never Never. His
sad, elongated figures, which look like
eroded humanity, seem to have caught
the fancy of the English public, which
has paid as much as 300 guineas for a
sample. Now 38, he is represented in the
New York Metropolitan Museum and
most Australian national galleries.
A note from “Bad Australian”;
It may interest you to know why I adopted
the pen-name “Bad Australian” (B. 22/11/’5O).
You are probably aware that The Bulletin
fought the proposed exodus of Billy Lane and
his New Australia pilgrims from start to finish,
mainly on the ground that no Australian should
abandon his country for any reason whatso-
ever, and that it was the duty of all good
Australians to stick to their native land whether
they considered themselves unjustly treated or
not. My departure from Australia in 1905
was largely influenced by the belief that my
own country had not given me the kind of
treatment 1 considered myself entitled to, and it
appeared to me that a change was desirable.
When writing my first contribution it occurred
to me that I might be regarded by The Bulletin
as being in the same category as Lane and his
followers —hence “Bad Australian.” Perhaps I
should add that I have raised six good Aus-
tralians: two Queenslanders, two Victorians
and two South Americans, and the South
Americans are more aggressively Australian than
the Australian-born.
A youthful medico, P. A. Restall,
lecturer at Dunedin Medical Schoo ;
(M.L.), has been awarded a Nuffield
Assistanceship—the first Maorilander so
honored since Dr. Murray Falconer’s
award 15 years ago. Restall will light out
for Oxford next year, later going on to
the famed Mayo clinic in the U.S. Age
28, he was elected to the Royal Aus-
tralian College of Physicians this year.
Into the Silence:
At Cairns (Q.), at 70, Harry Joseph Wilesmith,
mining pioneer of the Cairns hinterland, espe-
cially around Herberton. He prospected the
Arbouin mine, found the lode himself, and
managed the mine for 10 years for Darling
and Co. A noted footrunner in his younger
days.
In Melbourne, Colonel William Pestell,
architect and artist. Joining the A.M.F. in
1890, he was overseas in War I and came back
to supervise extensive military works in Vic-
toria in 1916-19. He was responsible for
organisation and training of engineer reinforce-
ments for the A.I.F. As an artist in water-
colors and etchings he exhibited in all Aus-
tralian capital cities.
In Perth, Alfred Martin, for more than 20
years manager of Victoria River Downs Station.
At Narrabri (N.S.W.), John McDonald;
possibly, at 92, the oldest practising solicitor in
Australia. Admitted solicitor to the N.S.W.
Supreme Court in 1881, he hung out his first
shingle at Walgett (N.S.W.), getting there by
Cobb and Co, coach. Shifting to Narrabri in
1884 he was mayor three years later, and was a
fore-fronter in the town’s affairs from then on.
Good cricketer, he played against Lord Hawke’s
English eleven; also he bred and raced his
own horses.
In Washington (U.S.), at 65. Charles Ross,
President Truman’s Press-secretary, and, like
Truman, a native of Missouri. In 1916-17
Ross worked as a sub-editor on Melbourne
“Herald” while on leave from the Faculty of
Journalism at Missouri University.
In Perth, at 69, Stanley Sprott Fisher, former
W.A. Secretary for Labor, to which post he was
appointed in 1937, after a distinguished career
in the Westralian Public Service; he was the
first secretary of the State Public Service Board
and associate to the president of the State
Arbitration Court. Outside his official duties
he had been a member of the Theosophical
Society since 1899, was ordained priest of the
Liberal Catholic Church in 1918, and became
Suffragan Bishop of that church in 1939.
In Adelaide, at 75, Freddie Kilian, for over
40 years a telegraphist in Darwin, almost as
well known there as the P.O. itself. He was
on duty on February 19, 1942. At his key in
Adelaide right to the end.


Vests continue to prove that
here is an exceptional tractor
L
mwm $
v..'.'
NUFFIELD UNIVERSAL M 4
with pneumatic tyres (14x30 rear, 7.50x18
front) trailing “Shearer” 12 twin disc plough
at 3J m.p.h. during Field Day at Hawkesbury
Agricultural College (N.S.W.). Width of cut
6ft., furrows 6 in. deep, 6in. wide. Plough is
equipped with pneumatic tyres, size 600x16
(nearside and off-back); 7.50x18 ( off-front ).
ƒ
UN/VERSAL TRACTOR
PRACTICAL: Operates all widely used trailed and
fixed implements. Readily convertible from 4-wheel
to 3-wheel (and vice versa) on the farm .
POWERFUL: 6-way power, from 38 H.P. engine and
new hydraulic power unit, for all needs in and around
the farm,
RELIABLE: Proved under all kinds of operational
conditions throughout Australia ... the tractor built
and backed by a name you can trustl
FULL DETAILS AND SPECIFICATIONS
AVAILABLE FROM STATE DISTRIBUTORS
NUFFIELD UNIVERSAL M 3
at Hawkesbury College Field Day,
pulling double-arm rabbit ripper
ripping depth of 24in. Note
retractable strakes on wheels for
extra traction. (Optional equipment.)
N.S.W.: PETER LLOYD LTD., 213-217 Elizabeth street
SYDNEY. 'Phone MA 7765. VICTORIA AND SOUTHERN
RIVERINA: KELLOW FALKINER PTY. LTD . 206 2?8 RufseU
Street. MELBOURNE. C.l. 'Phone JM 1555 QUEENSLAND
AND N.S.W. NORTHERN RIVERS: FLINDERS MOTOMPtV iin c
BRISBANE. 'Phone B 2420. And at I Railway P/6 4 Ev ers Eui! d. r. <3, 457 Adelaide Street.
LIMITED, 118-120 Franklin Str ee t Anlilmc TO ? D Y OOM^ BA - SOUTH AUSTRALIA: KINGSWAY
PARK LANE MOTORS PTY. LTD.. S2I9 6B 7- WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
METRO MOTORS PTY. LTD.. 36-38 Argyll HOBART Prem,SeS) ' TASMA NIA:
B
f
NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD..
PARK. ZETLAND, NEW ' SOUTH WALES
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£180,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE
and PERTH
CINZANO
SWEET OR DRY
O&rn&ud „
me
mm
THE SERVICE MAN
World Situation
Worsens.
“Ek Dum”: Last week two
minutes’ listening to Peking
Radio’s continuous barrage of
insult and threat should have
been enough to convince any-
body that the suggestion that the
Chinese forces in Korea would
stop at the 38th Parallel was
utter humbug.
The Chinese are in a condi-
tion of triumphant swollen-
headedness and ready for any-
thing. They know that they
have the United Nations forces
in Korea out on a limb, and
from their tone of voice they
have no intention of settling, as
the Americans themselves might
say, “for peanuts.” They are
bent on driving the United
Nations out of Korea and of
making any settlement with the
West subject to the hardest con-
ditions that can be thought up—
“hands off Formosa,” abandon-
ment of Chiang Kai-shek, a
settlement in favor of the Com-
munists in Indo-China and pos-
sibly also in Malaya, a seat in
U.N.O. for Mao’s Government,
a finger in the pie of Japanese
peace. And it is not unlikely
that where China leaves off
Russia will begin with a new
series of demands.
Meanwhile the fiction is still
maintained that the thoroughly-
knit army groups which have
been sent against Korea armed
with modern Russian arms are
volunteers acting individually.
General Willoughby, General
MacArthur’s C. 0.5., said a
week ago that Chinese forces
had been mounting in Man-
churia since the beginning of
July. A fortnight after the
invasion of South Korea by the
North Koreans there were
approximately only 116,000
Chinese troops in Manchuria,
but on November 16 numbers
had grown to 850,000, and this
movement is contemporaneous
with troop movements through-
out China.
China Speaks Russian
Peking’s language is not that
merely of a shocked neutral. Its
views and dialect come straight
from Moscow, where its Presi-
dent Mao has been for the past
week. Its declaration on For-
mosa followed exactly the lines
of the Soviet declaration some
time ago, and its dialect is
the dialect of Sharkey and
Vyshinsky, full of sentences
which deal with the “criminal
acts” of the United States, with
that country’s “insolent provo-
cation.”
Sometimes its offensive phrases
have a special Communist mean-
ing which is not understood by
the reader who is not familiar
with the Red argot—“provoca-
tion,” for instance, according to
the standard definition when
“direct,” involves “the spreading
of lies” against working-class
organisations or Soviet Repub-
lics, the “forging of incriminat-
ing documents, vandalism and
physical violence.” And when
the ordinary reader hears that
the Chinese Communist dele-
gates have asked the Security
Council to induce the with-
drawal of American and other
forces so that a “peaceful solu-
tion” may be arrived at, he is
apt to take the statement at its
face value, not being aware that
in technical Communist phrase-
ology (with which diplomats
have been trapped again and
again in the past few years) no
“peaceful solution” can be
arrived at which “rejects the
only guarantee of peace—united
mass struggle against imperial-
ism and its replacement by world
Socialism.”
There is little doubt about
where China’s policy is tending
in common with that of the
Soviet Union. Its statements
through its official radio not
merely mention withdrawal
from Korea and Formosa
both by the United States
and Nationalist Chinese forces
as a condition precedent to
a settlement, but it reiterates
again and again that the United
States has “made Japan a war
base for the purpose of attack-
ing China” ; that its aggression
against Korea and Formosa and
its aid to the French and Viet-
nam forces in Indo-China and
“the strengthening of its grip on
the Philippines and Australia”
comprise a definite plan to
develop military encirclement of
China as part of the strategic
programme for a third world
war. In this, moved by envy of
the Soviet Union and its great
achievements and hatred of the
working peoples of the world,
the capitalist nations intend to
destroy the “free people’s de-
mocracies” and gather in all
Communist territory in Europe
and Asia.
Formosan Issue
It is represented that it is the
“firm and irrevocable will of the
Chinese people to recover For-
mosa and all other territories
which rightfully belong to China
from the grasp of the criminal
American aggressors.” It is
taken as a fact that Formosa is
in the hands of the Americans,
and there is an inference in some
of the broadcasts that Indo-
china and Malaya—the last be-
cause of its great Chinese popu-
lation—are natural parts of
China and among those terri-
tories which are to be recovered.
Most of what is being said from
Peking has also been said in the
same language by General Wu,
the Communist Chinese delegate
who suggested to the Security
Council a few days ago that
U.N.O. should apply “severe
sanctions” against the Ameri-
cans.
China Arming
Among the aerial precautions
which are reported from China
is the lengthening of runways to
accommodate the heaviest
bombers —which the Chinese
themselves haven’t got but which
the Soviet Union has. And the
large-scale air measures were
followed quickly by a sudden
call on all young revolutionary
workers from 17 to 25 to enlist
in the People’s Army—which
Mao had announced, with all
too specious an eagerness that
his words should become known
tb the whole world, was to be
reduced from 5,000,000 to about
a million men. The mask seems
to be off. Even the Russian dele-
gates at Lake Success scarcely
bothered this week to maintain
the fiction that the Chinese fight-
ing in Korea were volunteers,
that lie now having been com-
pletely exploded. All the infer-
ences behind it are evil and
menacing.
The language used in the
appeal to young men to enlist
—which is about as specious as
the story about the Korean
volunteers, since universal con-
scription is the law of Com-
munist China—is almost exactly
the same as that used by Stalin
at the conference of the Com-
munist party of Soviet Russia
in March, 1939, when he was be-
ginning his overtures to Hitler
before World War 11. It sug-
gests enlistment to form a
patriotic Army, Navy and Air
Force to “keep dirty swine lips
from intruding through the
fences of our lovely garden,
People’s China.” Stalin in 1939
was bent on making “aggressor
nations” keep their “pig’s
snouts” out of the Ukraine. The
language of the world’s premier
peace-lovers is always elegant
and conciliatory.
Truman-Attlee Conference
The result of the Truman-
Attlee conference adds little to
security on the details revealed.
It seems the two have agreed
on a 10-point policy to add to
the other large pile of policies
which already exists side by side
with about half a million U.N.O.
resolutions. They have stoutly
announced that there will be
no “appeasement” regarding
aggression anywhere. But the
fact is that if the Communist
bloc intends to carry out its
stated programme no “appease-
ment” short of world surrender
is likely to be of any use.
Their first resolution, that the
United Kingdom and the U.S.
aim to “maintain world peace
and respect for the rights and
interests of all peoples, to
promote strength and confidence
among freedom-loving countries
of the world, to eliminate the
causes of want, fear and dis-
content and to advance the
democratic way of life,” is made
up almost entirely of phrases
framed originally in Moscow
and made stale in U.N.O. years
ago by Dr, Evatt and his like
rolling them round their tongues.
These aspirations were fol-
lowed by several platitudinous
ones of the order of “united
action in support of this unity of
objectives,” “readiness to seek an
end to hostilities in Korea by
means of negotiation,” and by
a few which expressed deter-
mination to carry out measures
which have been in operation for
months already; also by two or
three more —buried in the mass
of verbal pulp—which formed
the meat of the strange docu-
ment. In these they agreed to
continue to disagree about the
most important matters which
called for settlement—the seat-
ing of Communist China in the
United Nations, and Formosa.
About Formosa they are only at
one in the belief that its fate
should be decided by peaceful
means and in the interests of its
people.
Having come to their con-
clusions Mr. Truman hurried off
to threaten an unfortunate
musical critic, who had accused
his daughter of singing flat, with
a black-eye, while Mr. Attlee
went to Canada and issued in-
structions to his representatives
in Europe to discuss with Russia
a four-Power conference, a move
which will be interpreted by
Moscow as another show of
weakness, and an invitation to
repeat the Red triumphs of
Tehran, Yalta and Potsdam.
It would be very much better
to keep quiet and stop arguing
in public while acting for peace
behind the scenes, and beginning
to withdraw from petty adven-
tures which pave the way to a
general war, and to other inter-
ferences which lead in the same
direction.
The most urgent external
matters at the moment in the
diplomatic field are to put lapan
and Germany on a stable basis
before the situation worsens.
“Peace” Offer
The situation is complicated
by the efforts of Mr. Nehru’s
U.N.O. agent, Sir Senegal Rau,
who reported (to the excitement
of editors) at the weekend that
the Chinese delegate to U.N.O.
had told him that the Chinese
Government wished to end the
war as soon as possible. Mr.
Pannikar, the Indian and only
recognised diplomat of a
major country in Peking, de-
clared that Mao and his Govern-
ment were prepared to confer
with Britain, America and
Russia “as equals” which


Me p***
fi/ifl write A
' /N J\ i
* *A/W
The British “Swan” Leverless
Pen is not merely made, but
built with the precision of a fine
watch, of unbreakable materials!
It has a swift, unique filling
device at the end of the pen,
which takes only two
half-turns to fill. There’s
a choice of smooth-flow-
ing nibs to suit any
hand. You’ll be proud
to give the “Swan”.
mn
S",
\w/
Just a twist
of your wrist
on the milled
rotary end of
the pen—and
your "Swan"
is brimful. It's
always ready-
to-writel
At all Stationers
Jewellers and
Stores. Nibs to
suit every hand.
“SWAN
./eves/eM
PENS
HABIE, TODD & CO.
(mi.) PTY. LTD,, SYDNEY
•/
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND— In Divorce.
TO FRANCIS CLAUDE HALL formerly
of 81 Kent Street New Farm Brisbane in
the State of Queensland but whose present
whereabouts are unknown. —T AK E
NOTICE that an Action has been com-
menced against you in the Supreme Court
of Queensland at Brisbane in the State
of Queensland by Writ of Summons No.
947 of 1949 by your wife LAVINIA
CAROLINE HALL in which she claims
the dissolution of her marriage with you
and by her Petition filed herein she
alleges that on the Twenty-fourth day of
September 1946 you deserted her without
cause and have since continuously de-
serted her without cause for three years
and upwards and it has been ordered that
in lieu of personal service of the said Writ
and Petition on you this Notice be adver-
tised twice in “The Bulletin” a newspaper
published at Sydney in the State of New
South Wales in editions separated by at
least seven days and once in “The Courier-
Mail” a newspaper published at Brisbane
in the State of Queensland and that ser-
vice of such Writ and Petition shall be
deemed to have been made and be good
and valid on the expiration of Thirty days
from the last Act done under such order
If you desire to defend this Action you
must within Sixty days after the per-
formance of the last of such Acts ordered
to be done by such order enter an appear-
ance at the Registry of the said Court
and in default of your so doing the Plain-
tiff may by leave proceed in this Action
and Judgment may be given against you
in your absence. DATED this First day
of December, 1950.—F. J. RUSSELL,
Second Deputy Registrar. WILLIAM
THOMAS KING, Solicitor.for the Plaintiff,
King House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
“HANDY HINTS FOR THE
FARM.” —A thousand ways of im-
proving yields. Published by “The
Bulletin.” Price 1/-.
An international conspiracy
aiming at world conquest has
destroyed peace in Asia and
threatens to destroy it at any
moment in the Middle East
and in Western Europe. Eight
million Australians must unite
in a national effort to build
up their Defence Forces to
effective strength immediately.
Australia’s safety is a con-
sideration above politics or
individual opinion. While you
are making up your mind
about enlisting, or talking
about increased production,
the enemies of freedom are
working diligently to under-
mine the existence of the free
nations of the world.
Now, while we are still free
to defend ourselves and to
keep Australia safe, happy
and prosperous, is the time to
show our faith in our own
country.
Here are the actions that will
speak louder than any words:
Be ready to fight. Every
Australian of military age
should enlist in the Navy,
Army or Air Force for full
or part-time service.
Be willing to work. Workers
at every level of every in-
dustry must unite to produce
more of everything we need
for our Defence Forces, and
to maintain our living stan-
dards.
Be glad to co-operate
as an employer or employee
in maintaining peace in
industry.
Issued by the Government of the Commonwealth of Australia.
What we do over the next few years will
determine the fate and future of Australia.
Australia
needs
less
division
and
more
Divisions!
DE72-U4-U0
means admission to the peace-
loving comity of anti-aggressors,
U.N.O. This would be some-
what difficult, since it would be
interpreted in Asia as conces-
sion that China (still feeding
arms and other help to Ho Chi-
minh in Indo-China and to the
rebels of Malaya) is
a peace-loving nation, and
absolved of guilt for the Korean
business. Comrade Vyshinsky
topped off these delusive efforts
by calling on the U.N.O. General
Assembly to order the with-
drawal of all foreign troops
from Korea, but these of course
would not include the Chinese,
who according to Moscow’s
view, are not foreign troops, but
merely indignant Chinese indi-
viduals embodied in a North
Korean army.
Meanwhile, the world (Aus-
tralia seemingly excepted) is
swiftly arming.
Korean Defence.
“Ek Dum”; At long last,
after the Americans had suffered
more than 32,000 casualties, the
Korean war has achieved the
status of a real war by the im-
position of a veiled censorship.
While it was looked on merely
as police-action the lives of
troops were endangered, and no
doubt a large proportion of the
casualties produced through
giving correspondents a com-
pletely free hand to spread what-
ever kind of “news” they cared
to, telling the enemy the strength
and weaknesses of their own
side, where battered units were,
what officers were in command,
the reactions of U.N.O. troops
in retreat, the nature of arma-
ment and a host of other in-
formation which an enemy is
eager to collect.
Officially, technical censorship
still does not exist, and Lieut.-
General Robertson, the 8.C.0.F.
commander, is properly calling
for it, but briefing sessions have
been discontinued at U.S. Army
headquarters by General Mac-
Arthur’s orders, situation maps
are no longer available as a
matter of course and news has
been limited.
The week’s operations seem
to have been confined to two
phases—the evacuation of the
north-east sector, which involved
getting 15,000 U.S. Marines and
other troops and British com-
mandos off the limb on which
they hung far in the interior of
the northern corridor near
Changjin reservoir. There they
had been used in an attempt to
break the right flank of the
Chinese counter-attack against
the western sector.
In this sector the United
Nations superiority of shipping
and mechanised transport seems
to have saved the situation.
The “cut-off” troops inland were
brought out safely, and those
around Wongsan and within
uninterrupted reach of the coast
were rescued, and no doubt will
be used to strengthen defences
across the peninsula above
Seoul.
Mechanisation again seems to
have saved the western-sector
troops, tired after their advance
and retreat of a few days ago.
They appear to have succeeded
in breaking contact with the
enemy, whose movements would
be much slower than their own,
since enemy transport largely
consists of Shanks’s Pony, not a
very swift-moving animal in
snow and blizzard, and when
overloaded with rations and
hung from the ears downwards
with padded clothing, automatic
arms and ammunition.
General Lawton Collins, Chief
of the United States General
Staff, has been in Korea during
the week, and it seems that the
main operation has involved the
establishment of a defence-line
to cover Seoul. There was little
fighting except by small parties.
Correspondents reported more
than once that detachments, in-
cluding Australians, had “cut
their way out” of or “smashed”
their way out of encirclement,
but these reports generally ended
with the welcome words: “The
U.N.O. force suffered no
casualties.”
The Communists appeared to
be consolidating and redirecting
their forces at assembly-points
with a view to breaking the
eastern flank of the western
holding lines at Hamhung and
outflanking the defenders and
Seoul. When this was written,
on December 11, a renewal of
their offensive was expected at
any moment by opponents who
were thankful for the breather
which had enabled them to
establish some sort of stabilised
positions before the blow came.
On the night of December 10
the North Koreans claimed that
their forces had once again
crossed the 38th Parallel into
South Korea.
H.M.A.S. Sydney made a
stately picture as she came
slowly up Sydney Harbor on the
morning of December 8, trim,
refitted, decks lined and wear-
ing her flags. Not a sound of
welcome greeted her as she
glided to her berth, and one
could not help wondering what
the Russians were thinking in
their ship anchored off Athol
Bight in a position from which
it is possible, with a glass, to
recognise faces on Garden Island,
Australia’s most important naval
depot. No doubt they will re-
turn to the Workers’ Only
Fatherland to report that there
is no enthusiasm for defence in
Australia and that it is open for
the taking if Moscow cares to
arrange the incursion of a few
thousand half-armed Indonesians
in praus. Anybody who
attempted to get as near a
Russian warship as the Soviet
citizens have been near Sydney
Harbor’s main defence base for
a week would be either blown
out of the water or would disap-
pear suddenly into Siberia.
* V * *
Ominous signs continue to
advertise the danger of a new
world conflict —the advance pub-
licity for the new British budget
on March 31, for which taxa-
tion on a war-time scale and
general price and material con-
trols are foreshadowed, the pur-
chase of 36 Gloster Meteor jets
and the appointment of national
war organisation executives in
Australia and the sudden de-
mand of General Franco, who
apparently thinks it is a good
time to bargain for the return of
Gibraltar, which has been British
for 250 years. His chances of
getting it are small. Even the
generous Attlees would scarcely
dare to part with the Atlantic
key to the Mediterranean.
* * * »
With advance detachments
already in Japan, 1100 Maori-
landers sailed from Wellington
in the Ormonde for Korea on
December 10. The men are
described as “pressure-cooked”
to battle standard. With the
Canadians and Australians they
should be enough to swell the
British Commonwealth forces to
divisional size. There is talk of
consolidating all the British
forces, at present liable to dis-
persion, under a divisional h.q.
to fight as a unified formation.
This would be far more satis-
factory than the present arrange-
ment.


jspuauj fswtj bjo
spuaujp/Q
(y*s>
CO
G^U ln}
s,
&
**»)*
The name ss_
The whisky is_
iA v/m
17-JEWELLED
SWISS MASTERPIECES
WITH THE
NON-MAGNETIC
ESCAPEMENT
at
to;
PJ
7
LAV BUS A
WATCHES
FOUNDED IBtt * VBJJFMT. SUISSE
Wx
STANDBY TO RAM!
by MACNELL
DAD MORRISSEY
snatched his sou’wester
from its hook beside the
tiny cabin mirror,
smoothed his sleek brown hair
back with a manicured hand,
clamped the shiny oilskin on his
head, balanced a moment with
practised ease on the destroyer s
lifting deck as he squared the
cap off in the mirror, then
bounded up the bridge-ladder.
He had taken over the ship from
me within fifteen seconds of the
bridge signalman’s shout:
“Man overboard, starb’d
side!”
But if I was on the bridge,
you’re thinking how could I see
the captain squaring off his sou’-
wester in his cabin mirror? 1
couldn’t —I only knew, as did the
rest of the North Atlantic Patrol,
that Dad Morrissey was the
most conceited destroyer-driver
in this or any Navy. And that
he’d have as soon appeared in
public, even in a North Sea
blow, without the reflected
approval of his mirror as he
would have entered the ward-
room for dinner before all
hands were gathered there to
rise as he entered, waving a de-
precatory hand at the scuffling
obeisances.
Dad was forty-three—old for
a destroyer captain—and had
been passed over for his brass-
hat years ago. Something to do
with making a mess of an
important guard. Age was
about the only thing on land or
sea he feared. Because of this,
and because sailors are as heart-
less in their sobriquets as they
are accurate in the character-
summing which gives rise to
them. Dad was known thus
throughout the flotilla. He knew
his name, was often reminded
of it, and could do nothing
about it.
When a loading-number on
gun below the bridge re-
marks loudly that “Dad is as
wet as a scrubber,” you can’t
very well dictate to him his
opinion of the gentleman who,
for investigation purposes, he
would stoutly maintain to be his
own parent.
Next to himself Dad loved
ship-handling ; he had cause for
both affections. Still as straight
as a stanchion, with muscles like
a windjammer’s hemp hawser,
his was that lean, keen, aquiline
face whose sun-beaten hawki-
ness the naval peaked cap so
admirably enhances. He looked
as rakish as his ship. As for
the ship-handling, he was a de-
stroyer man.
MY signal to the flotilla had
already been acknow-
ledged ; we would have an
audience. So that (to extend my
opening omniscience) 1 believe
that as he took over the ship
Dad felt very kindly towards the
wardroom steward for allowing
a wave to lift him over the
starb’d guard-rails.
I’d put her hard-over, of
course, to clear him of the
screws as he swept aft, and Dad
took her before she had swung
the full half-circle back over our
boiling wake. A wisp of grey
against the foaming seas, now a
mere thread, then a gushing
plume as the lifebuoy lifted, the
burning calcium - cylinder
signalled his position. Through
glasses we could see him cling-
ing there, now and again wav-
ing. The flotilla, and the wave-
white bulk of the battle-
cruiser we were mothering,
watched.
Apart from snapping a query
as to whether the first-lieutenant
knew. Dad gave no orders
except to the wheel. Even if
natural seamanship had not
impelled him to train his officers
to think and anticipate, so that
hands were already detailed and
lines laid out for the rescue,
natural conceit would have.
Whatever Dad did, since he’d
been passed over for promotion,
seemed to be urged by an almost
perverse loyalty—“ I’ll show the
b s I can take it! ” His every
action had to find favor in
somebody’s eyes, whether deep-
sea admiral or shore-side popsy.
He handled her tenderly, for
with her tail to the tumbling
troughs she was rolling her guts
out, and edged nearer to the
flare. But when the gunner’s
yeoman on the fo’c’sle put his
line - throwing gun to his
shoulder Dad bellowed
“Fo’c’sle! ” and, when the spray-
swept faces turned bridgewards,
waved them emphatically back
from the guard-rail. The
steward had in the course of
duty left the ship: her captain
would bring the ship right back
to him.
And he did. He swung her,
slowly at first, waited till she
recovered from the first rolling
shock of the waves against her
slender stem, then hard-over so
that she was round and riding
into the seas before the next lot
(big waves usually come in
threes) had time to batter her.
Not much in that, hauling a de-
stroyer-head to sea, but—the
steward had only to reach his
hand out to grab the rope
scrambling-net No. 1 had
lowered over the side.
Then the signals stood out
like boards in the thirty-knot
wind. “Man recovered,” from
Dad, and “Resume station”
from the flotilla-leader. And, as
we sliced ahead at twenty-five
knots, taking them green over
the fo’c’sle like a half-tide rock,
we all knew (and felt a bit smug
at the knowledge) what was not
signalled—the comments on
bridges down the destroyer line ;
“the old bull-artist, he’s done it
again. And not a bad job, you
must admit, in this weather.”
THE navigator, a crawly
creature amazing what
solid rock there can be under
slime, as we were to find —after
trying for five minutes to catch
the Old Man’s eye, caught it and
smirked: “By Jove, sir, that was
neat. I don’t suppose I’ll ever
get to handling her like
that”
Dad, who could judge a man
as well as a bearing, grunted,
“I’m bloody sure you won’t.”
The navigator slapped his oil-
skinned thigh and guffawed.
The first - lieutenant and I
grinned—only we enjoyed ours.
Dad waited on the bridge,
with his arms laid out over the
chart-table weather-dodger, for
me to put her in station on the
battler’s port bow —we were in
arrowhead-screen ahead of her.
I know damned well there
would have been no indecision
with my orders if I had been
alone—he’d trained me., too —
but his presence there behind
me as I carefully checked our
bearing from the big ship’s
bridge rattled me. I knew it
was time to reduce speed so that
we would not overshoot our
station, but before I could make
up my mind to speak
“All right, sub. You can
reduce to one-five-oh revolu-
tions. We’re in position, aren’t
we?”
That’s the sort of judgment
ten years’ destroyer-time gives a
man.
I’d bent to the wheelhouse
voice-pipe when a sudden shove
sent me sprawling off the raised
grating and a bull voice shook
the voice-pipe.
“Full ahead together! Port
twenty! ”
Then, accompaniment to the
urgent grinding and bell-ringing
of the engine-room telegraphs
in the wheelhouse below, a rapid
succession of strident “whoos”
reached us from Tartar, the
boat on our quarter astern. I
regained the grating in time to
see the last plume of white
stream from her siren and shred
to tatters in the whistling wind,
and a whipping black pendant
climbing its halliards towards
the upper-yard in long, jerking
swoops. U-boat!
WE all swayed, slowly and in
unison, like a group of
drunks, to meet her heel as she
listed to starb’d on the turn.
The other boat was speaking us
in stuttering blinks of yellow
light. Dad did not have to wait
for the signalman’s “Contact
bearing two - seven - oh.” He
read it himself, leant forward
and with this thumb stabbed the
alarm buzzer.
A destroyer on the hunt is a
cruel hound, forty thousand
thrusting horsepower for
muscle, omniscient asdic spears
for nose and pressure-pounding
depth-charges for teeth. Our
kudos-hunting driver was as
savage as his hound.
He crouched over his precious
bearing-sight and drove her
along the line of bearing flashed
by Tartar, the asdic’s sonic
beams spearing ahead in an
embracing fan of sensitivity.
They searched out, urgently,
right, left, up and down, laid
their fingers on a sub-surface
cigar of steel and rebounded
joyously to the operator’s ears.
Dad heard the echoing “peep”
on the loudspeaker and
slammed his hand on the
bearing-ring.
“Got the b !” he snarled.
And, ashamed of his unseaman-
like vehemence, suppressed it at
once by a cold, calculating
efficiency that narrowed his eyes
and set his jaw like a trap.
Both ships now had contact,
and raced on converging courses
to get above their quarry, flee-
ing in the dark tranquillity sixty-
feet below the smoking waves.
Then the charges were over,
splashing, dropping, down, until
the pressure of water searching
in through little holes snapped a
needle on to a waiting detonator
and exploded each 3001 b. of
amatol in a blast that instan-
taneously crammed the ocean’s
incompressibility into a solid,
crushing block. On both sides
of the suspended U - boat,
already withstanding hundreds
of tons of water-weight, the
ocean was turned into a giant
hand that closed round her
plates in an iron-hard grip.
Closed, squeezed, crumpled and
spurted water through her com-
partments in almost solid shafts.
Technically, there was no fault
in Dad’s hogging the greater
share of the attack —the thing
was to beat the life out of the
enemy in double-quick time,


C.S.R. Co.’s Report
General Manager warns shareholders
of effects of lowered money values
Over 10,000 C.S.R.
Shareholdings
Shareholdings in the
C.S.R. Company now
exceed 10,000, which
is an additional 1,200
since the Chairman’s
announcement in
June, 1947.
Industry can no longer conduct its affairs on
the assumption that the value of money is
stable, Mr. C. W. Rothe, General Manager
of the Colonial Sugar Refining Company told
shareholders in his report. He said steps
must be taken to handle business affairs
under conditions of changing money values.
The Commonwealth Stati-
stician’s indexes show that
money today is worth rather
less than half its 1939 value.
A company which made a
nett tax-paid profit of
£10,000 in 1939, and
which is now producing
the same amount of goods
with the same equipment,
would have to show a
money profit of at least
£20,000 before it could be
regarded as earning at the
same rate as in 1939.
Capital levy
on industry
Inflation and present tax
rules have brought about
a position where the Aus-
tralian Government is
making what amounts to
a capital levy on business
and industry.
Capital is being taken from
industry (even though unin-
tentionally), in the guise of
taxation of so-called income.
Outmoded
tax methods
The rules for computing
taxable income are outmoded,
as they assume stability of
money values and only recog-
nise depreciation allowances
based on the original money
cost of wearing assets. They
make no allowance for the
much higher cost of replace-
ment of plant and machinery
and stocks of materials.
Consequently, if a business is
to have sufficient funds for
replacement, it must provide
them out of income remaining
after taxation, and withheld
for replacement purposes from
distribution.
“Confiscation”
For example, for a public
company to provide an addi-
tional £1,000 for replacement,
in excess of the present de-
preciation allowances based on
original cost, it would be neces-
sary to allocate over £x,6oo
from earnings.
The £600 goes to the Govern-
ment in taxes paid for the
attempt to maintain plant and
equipment installations at a
high enough level to preserve
assets and to avoid a reduction
in output.
This crippling basis of
confiscation is inequitable
as well as contrary to the
national interest.
Poor coal
reduces output
Poor quality coal Inflates
costs and continues to
cause loss of efficiency.
The low calorific value and
poor quality of coal supplied to
our three boiler stations in
Sydney, Melbourne and
Adelaide (serving _ three refi-
neries, two distilleries, Cane-ite
and Hardboard factories) has
necessitated mining, transport-
ing and handling 43,000 tons
more coal per annum and dis-
posing of 10,000 tons more
ashes than would have been the
case had the standard of the
present day coal been similar
to that of the coal used in 1939.
Poor quality coal and inter-
mittent supply have reduced
our factory output during the
past 12 months by over 10,000
tons of refined sugar products.
There has been an overall loss
in boiler efficiency of more than
10% since 1939. The average
cost of fuel to produce a unit
of steam has increased four-
fold since 1939-
Bulk handling
will offset
slow shipping
Ships on the Australian
coast, due mainly to the
water-front position, now
spend on average about
twice as long as before the
war in loading and un-
loading cargo.
The Company is proceeding
with the proposal to install
equipment at Pyrmont for the
receipt and handling of raw
sugar in bulk. Bulk sugar will
require heavy capital expendi-
ture, but should materially
reduce demands on the limited
manpower pool and increase
efficiency of operations.
RAW
SUGAR
0
The Company’s mills in
N.S.W. and Q’ld. are expect-
ed to make 198,000 tons of
raw sugar this season. C.S.R.
owns 7 of the 35 raw sugar
mills in Australia. The esti-
mated total Australian pro-
duction this season is
1,000,000 tons.
The Company’s five Fiji
mills are expected to pro-
duce only about 100,000 tons
this season; this is a very
poor crop caused by exceed-
ingly unfavourable weather.
REFINED
SUGAR
f
The refined sugar supply
position in Australia was
much easier than for some
years. For the year ended
30th September, the Com-
pany’s sales of refined pro-
ducts approximated the re-
cord establishment in 1942,
•when sales were greatly in-
flated by panic buying and
the creation of wartime
emergency stocks by the
Government.
BUILDING
MATERIALS
ƒ
Demand for C.S.R. build-
ing materials remains in
excess of supply. Cane-ite
production was well main-
tained but wet weather
interrupted the supply of
materials for C.S.R. Hard-
board and Concord Plaster
Mills. Production of Gyprock
Wallboard continues and the
demand is still well in excess
of supply. Blue asbestos pro-
duction in W.A. has shown
a marked increase. Manu-
facture of asbestos cement
sheets is being maintained at
a satisfactorily high level.
During the year a new pro-
duct —• a textured exterior
wall covering known as
C.S.R. Asbestos Sidings —
was placed on the market.
INDUSTRIAL
CHEMICALS
f
Production has continued
steadily at the Rhodes fac-
tory of C.S.R. Chemicals Ltd.
The acetic acid section is
working satisfactorily. Cel-
SioR Moulding Powder con-
tinues to be well received in
the plastics industry. A
steady demand continues for
Vitamin C and for the pro-
mising anti-TB drug Para
Amino Salicylic Acid.
'increased enquiries are
coming forward for Sorbitol
and Mannitol. The acetic an-
hydride and cellulose acetate
plants are being pushed
ahead as fast as possible
How tax methods restrict production
The following illustrates an economic problem in times of infla-
tion, which C.S.R.’s General Manager explained in his report.
CZJ
10 TON TRUCK
COST £2,000
1945
Five years ago Arthur Williams bought a 10-ton truck for
£2,000 and set up business as the Williams Carrying Co.
Prices were rising and it was obvious that another truck
would cost him more when his present one wore out.
Mr. Williams calculated that the cost of wearing out over
the years and replacing his truck was a normal cost of
running his business, like the cost of petrol and repairs.
He decided to place aside £6OO every year so that he
would have £3,000 to buy a new 10-ton truck at the end
of five years when his old one wore out.
But the taxation authorities would allow him only £4OO
each year. They said the additional £2OO each year was
a taxable profit, and not a legitimate cost.
Part of the money placed aside each year was taken by
the tax collector. Therefore, at the end of five years,
Mr. Williams did not have the £3,000 he provided. He
had only enough money left to buy an 8-ton truck.
What happens in a small carrying business happens on a far larger scale
throughout Australian industry. Taxation methods are restricting pro-
duction and transferring industrial capital to Government revenue.
Copies of a booklet published by C.S.R. on Capital Erosion caused
by Income Tax can be obtained on request to any office of the Company.
before he could loose his
torpedoes. Ethically, Dad
should have hauled off and
allowed the other boat to handle
what she had flushed. Don’t be
wet—the flotilla was watching,
and Dad was the other’s senior,
“Never cross a senior officer’s
bows” is a well-known naval
rule of the road. Tartar’s
captain knew his rules all right,
and he knew Dad. After getting
off his initial pattern of charges
he hauled clear. To a hunter as
experienced as Dad, his asdic-
set reports were an all-seeing,
underwater eye. He knew by
the German’s manoeuvring, his
uncertain changes of course and
fluctuating depths, that he had
hit him hard. He continued to
lambast him, pattern after
pattern, until the sea astern was
a frothing maelstrom, convulsed
every few minutes by a bursting
eruption of white water, the
mounds becoming smaller as the
charges searched deeper.
Dad had not moved from the
gyro-compass, not even to
glance astern, where, fascinated
by the ship’s discharged fury,
we watched the ocean heaving.
Then target - depth decreased,
rapidly. You could tell Dad
had not forgiven himself for his
earlier outburst by the way he
now spoke, quietly, affectedly
nonchalant.
“Warn ‘B’ gun he’s coming
up.” And, in the same tone he
would have warned the officer
of the day he wanted a boat to
go ashore, “Stand-by to ram.”
GOD, I thought, he’s enjoy-
ing this! Stand-by to ram!
What more could he ask?
Crippled the enemy by astute
depth-charge attack, battered
her to the surface, charged upon
her wallowing length with all
the thrust of forty thousand
horses, cut her almost in two,
sheared through and over the
stricken remnants, on into clear
water, the admiral in the battler
watching through glasses and —
sweetest of all —the slow, tender
bringing-alongside back in dock-
yard with the hole in his bows
only half as gaping as the
crowding faces on the dock wall.
And the Hun had to ruin it
all. No sooner did the black,
glistening shape shoulder its
length up from beneath than it
vomited a stream of clambering
sailors who fought to her rails,
and plunged with the despera-
tion of some private knowledge
into the icy sea. We were still
a cable off, shuddering with
speed, when the U-boat cocked
her saw-edged nose in the air,
high so that we saw clearly the
streaming sockets of her starb’d
tubes, and slid quickly back
whence she’d come. The rasp
in Dad’s voice spoke volumes.
“Hard-a-port!” he snarled.
Round we careered, missing the
struggling swimmers by an
oar’s length, straight on over the
creaming patch marking the
sub.’s grave. Hardly breathing,
we waited, braced for the shock,
the first-lieutenant gripping with
both hands the brass chart-table
cover, me choking the auxiliary
voice - pipe. The drowning
Germans were yards astern
before, shock-free, we realised
the U-boat had cheated us.
Dad vented his spleen charac-
teristically. “Tell Tartar,” he
ordered the signalman, “to pick
up survivors. Sub! Get her in
position! ”
By the time I had, Dad had
shown another characteristic.
He would not have lasted a dog-
watch as a destroyer-man if he
hadn’t. He had forgotten his
grudge, and was making up for
his show of spite by turning on
the casual charm which made
you forget the conceit and re-
member the seamanship.
There were no commendatory
signals from the admiral, of
course —this was the British
Navy, and we had merely done
what we were there for —but
Dad made up for that. He
didn’t actually pat the asdic
officer on the back, not with his
hand, but Peter felt it just the
same.
“Nice work, young feller.
Clung to him like a leech. I’ll
remember that.” Peter glowed.
and shuffled with embarrass-
ment. Then Pilot —what a fool
that man was —had to spoil this
cosy atmosphere by remarking:
“Not to mention the captain,
eh, sir?”
Immediately Dad was —Dad.
Couldn’t that idiot see that what
Dad wanted was our silent
admiration, the knowledge that
afterwards, in the wardroom, on
the mess-deck, would be voiced
our adulation? Not spoken
acclaim, laid on in the embarras-
sing presence of juniors.
Dad pulled the yellow cowl
of his duffle-coat over his head,
remembering to sweep back his
hair inside, and planted himself
on his high-legged stool at the
forrard end of the bridge. And
there he stayed till the breasts
of Scapa Flow’s islands rose,
rounded, from the haze on the
port bow and the screen altered
course for harbor.
IN its own snug quarters the
1 Silent Service is not so silent
—why should it be? Even
Atlantic Patrol destroyers do
not sink U-boats every day, and
many of Dad’s flotilla-mates
came aboard to drink a coj
gratulatory cup, and, after suit
able persuasion, to get Dad t>
reconstruct the action. As Da<
told us afterwards, the more-
these things are discussed thf
better destroyer - captains arc
fitted to fight. That was the ex-
planation he felt he shoul''
make.
(I Continued on page 42.)


SPOPT£TT£S
P/O you KNOW THAT
ƒ
f
FRENCHMAN EUGENE CRIQUI
HAD THE SHORTEST CHAMPIONSHIP
REIGN OF ANY OTHER BOXER. 1
ON JANUARY 2, 1923 CRIQUI
KNOCKED OUT JOHNNY KILBANE IN
6 ROUNDS AT NEW YORK AND WON
THE WORLD'S FEATHERWEIGHT TITLE.
CRIQUI'S NEXT CONTEST, ALSO IN
NEW YORK,ON JULY 26. 1923 SAW HIM
LOSE A 15 ROUNDS POINTS DECISION,
AND THE TITLEJO JOHNNY DUNDEE
3*
‘2BBPW «^ ?;,,c,^?
p/o yot/Ar/vow that
E 7
ƒ
WAS RECORDED BY
J.L.COLEMAN PLAYING ON
mmmsw) golf course july io*
1939- HE USED HIS PUTTER FROM THE TEE
AT THE 220YDS(2 nd HOLE)& HOLED IN ONE,
COLEMAN HAD A KINK ABOUT THE HOLE, AND'
ALWAYS USED HIS PUTTER FROM THE 2"* TOKEEP OUT OfTROUBIt
£
220
vm
Wt
5794 D-3.50
D/D YMMO* THAT
mmo#7QMcco
BECAUSE OF ITS OUTSTANDING
QUALITY HAS EARNED FOR ITSELF THE
TITLE Of *W£ CHAMPION SMOKE \
AVAILABLE IN FINE GUT OR READY RUBBED.
l!
Also BRIGHT and DARK Flake Cut for the Pipe,
Enjoy
holiday
motoring
year
*
\*mi
? Re
" w\
7m
Xt.« IV'
I
J*
ML .if
s?
1
-"I*?* '
. *£,
with
GOODYEAR
X^^ase.
TYRES
No car is safer than its tyres
and the condition of your tyres
can make or mar your holiday
outings. Protect your family,
yourself, your car with Goodyear
De Luxe Tyres—the tyres with
more built-in safety —more
built-in miles.
SEE YOUR GOODYEAR DEALER
f
SU7/I«
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM’S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“It is natural for every woman to
want to appear smartly groomed.”
— Women’s paper.
Especially for her wedding-
day.
The most important part of a
woman’s face is her eyes.”
—Women s paper.
She never looks well without
them.
•I* *l* 4*
Even in the matter of consol-
ing a lovely lady, Sydney’s Lord
Mayor O’Dea shoulders his
responsibilities.
“A Melbourne schoolteacher said
he had cured people with vibrating
machines he had invented.”
—Sydney “Sunday Telegraph.”
He does it in a brace of
shakes.
4* 4* 4*
“Mr. Dean has been eating grass
every day for the past six years,
instead of the old-fashioned joints
and steaks.” — Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
He prefers buffalo, however.
4* 4* 4*
“Wanted, woman cleaner and
pantrymaid, combined.”
—Suburban paper.
You can write your own ticket
about this double,
4* 4* 4*
“Wanted, urgently, by elderly
Czech lady, active b.-s. room with
gas-ring.”— Suburban paper.
Retiring rooms not even con-
sidered.
4* 4* 4*
“A woman should wear a hair-
style which suits her type of face.”
—Fashion note.
Housewives these days will
naturally wear it long.
“New York’s tavern-owners and
saloon-keepers sadly called meetings
this week to consider the rising cost
of beer.”
Drinkers could show them
how to keep it down.
Directional Bias.
“We live in an age when no man
of any importance ever admits he was
wrong.”— J. B. Priestley.
I’ve yet to find the husband who
Can boldly claim, when troubles
brew
Between him and an angry wife,
That he is never in the wrong;
Though simple husbands scarce
belong
To ranks that matter much in
life.
But those who leave their home
and spouse
To air opinions in the House
Need never publicly confess
To having ignorantly erred
When they can claim that what
occurred
Was misreported in the Press.
Yet some there are who can’t
maintain
Their ego with this old refrain —
These chaps are always wrong
despite
Vain hopes to make their words
come good.
For tell me just what Leftist
could
Legitimately claim he’s Right ?
D. H. E.
Grave Situation.
“Curates have very little authority
and only one right—the right to
Christian burial.”
— Rev. Dr. Bernard Patten.
It’s time we gave a decent spin
To those who fight with vice
and sin,
Let them be paid a decent
screw,
These men of courage tried and
true ;
And let them have a little say
In parish matters, or the day
Will come when we who need
their aid
To plight the troth of man and
maid,
Or take a word of comfort
round
Will find they’ve all gone under-
ground.
BERT.
The Higher Education.
In publishing the following
selected examples of answers to
reader-quizes on vital affairs of
the day which it conducted
among a widely-representative
cross-section of the public, the
“Daily Dillyguff” takes great
pride in attributing the high
standard of intelligence demon-
strated in them to its own unre-
“And keep it on the lawn this time, son."
mitting determination to raise
the mental age of its readers.
This has been achieved by giv-
ing them such highly intellectual
pabulum as the astrological
notes, which are written by a
brilliant journeyman tripe-curer
at the abattoirs, all the latest
Hollywood divorce scandals, a
full range of adventure strip-
stories including Joe Bazooka,
Gwenda the Famous Girl De-
tective, Winnie the Waif, Cyril
Squarejaw the Wonder Worker,
and Stoopid. Other features
which combine instruction
and entertainment such as
the daily swab-inquiry sensa-
tions, disclosures of fight- and
wrestling-riggings, s.-p. supple-
ment, Wilfred Woozle’s advice
to the ’teen-ager in her love
problems, etc.
The first question we asked
readers was: “Do you think the
hopes Australia put in Lake
Success have been justified?”
Here are some of the answers:
Fanny Fetherbrane, 18, typist:
“I suppose they’d be our swim-
ming hopes you mean isn’t that
where they’re going to hold the
next Olympic Games or some-
thing I remember my boy
friend saying that John Marshall
beat them all over there and
we’ve got a few good girl hopes
too some of them are real fast
I don’t know their names but
one of them Claire somebody or
other I’ve seen her photo in the
papers she’s rather good-looking
but I didn’t like the way she did
her hair it didn’t suit her
drooped over one eye like that I
tried it that way once but I
looked a positive freak I think
shoulder-length and a little fringe
suits me best he he.”
Mrs. Rose Bush, housewife:
“I have heard of a lake with a
name something like that; I
think it’s down the South Coast,
isn’t it? Anyway, I’ve often
heard my husband mention it.
I think it was the time that Doc-
tor Evatt had so much to do
with things. I suppose he has
another one of his homes down
there, because I heard my hus-
band say once he was always
making trips there. Well, if a
politician couldn’t afford to have
a flash weekender at a place
like that, who could? We’re
going down the South Coast on
a camping holiday at Christmas,
so we might pass that lake on
the way. Anyway, I don’t see
what any hopes could have to
do with it, unless it is you mean
we hope we have good weather
for it, and I think that’s rather
silly. We wouldn’t hope for bad
weather, would we?”
Mr. Arthur Doap, 42, smoke-
sorter: “Don’t talk to me about
Lake Success. It cost me a
packet. Yes, I know it had a
pedigree a yard long—from Lake
Boy out of Success Girl —but I
backed that dog at Harold Park
at its first four starts and it
doesn’t run a ‘drum.’ Do /
know it’s on the ice? At its
fifth start I haul off it and it
romps home at twenty-fives. I
never want to hear the damned
name again.”
The next question to be put
was: “A Dr. Fisher recently
paid a visit to this country. In
what capacity did he come?”
Blue - eyed, blonde Shirley
Boobe, 22, machinist: “I think
he was a specialist or something
from London, wasn’t he, and he
came out for some big-game
fishing or something. I know I
heard one of the girls say he
was real old, and I don’t think
he was very handsome.”
Mrs. R. Phwitt, of Darling-
ville, ceased washing her pet
Pekinese to answer: “I heard
the woman next door telling the
woman opposite she saw him in
a march or procession or some-
thing in the city. I understood
he was a young atomic scientist
who was leading some sort of
‘peace’ demonstration hadn’t
he been made to come back
from England some time ago?”
Mr. Samuel Dill, watch-
maker’s laborer: “I think he’s a
famous doctor who made a for-
tune out of his phospherine
tonic, and he now runs a string
of chemist shops.”
The third question put to our
readers was: “Did you agree
with the ‘Dillyguff’s’ leading
article on the question of tied
houses?”
Mr. Neil E. Batty interrupted
his intensive study of night-trot
entries in our lift-out supple-
ment to give his thoughtful
answer: “To tell you the truth,”
he said, “I only look at the pic-
ture-strips and go through the
racing news and fight descrip-
tions on the back page. Then I
shot the paper away.”
Vivacious dark-eyed brunette
model, 20 - year - old Mavis
Morron: “Fancy ! Do you have
leading articles in your paper?
I’ve never read any, but I think
the people who write them must
be so clever. Why don’t you
get them to write one about the
awful lipstick they sell these
days, or putting up the price of
mascara and rouge? You’d
have all the girls reading it
then! ”
BO.
Hot Tip.
The oldest paper in the land
(It loses cash, / understand),
Its circulation's small;
In sober fact, there's no demand
For this staid sheet at all
Among the reading masses. Yet,
'Twould very soon become the
rage
If they subjoined a racing page
To Sydney’s Government
Gazette.
P. M.


Established 1868
to Government, Municipal,
Skipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
:tr
jACKSOff 4
> put® j
VRADC
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printer#, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
aUO OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
Am AT STDXBT, LONDON, NEW TORE
LETTERPRESS A OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYFS
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COFFER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
EULERS, BOOKBINDERS
COLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I I PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
•jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
CINZANO
SWEET OR DRY
ƒ
fast
Holden’s 90,000 miles
of taxi-cab operation
READ WHAT Mr. R. E. APPELBEE SAYS
ABOUT HIS FIRST HOLDEN
irS ' hv me and
The first Holden t axi-cab in June,
placed on the road go.OOO m iles an d
1949 has now covered over sincere
! would like to Pass
appreciation ot tne 4
magnificent car. nine—the only
Firstly, might I q^° te that S engine is adjust-
work performed on using Utfle ail-
ment oi tappets .twice 1 QOO _ _ . the body
perhaps three pm whatsoever and
has developed no t su bjected to one or
although it has su seemi ngly as
two minor on the road ....
good as the day {ront construction is
the ruggedness o and is more readily
SS3 anY other v
I have used. „ ldens operating in
Having noW . n \u® s ame time aggregating
-'“t r 1
in the HOLDEN . • • B Ap pelbce,
Tours
faithfully. (Ssl> R 'f- g ervlce
proprietor G«»
Victoria St., au
Holden is your best buy
because it gives you ...
OVERALL ECONOMY
... in petrol oil
and maintenance
BIG CAR COMFORT
... leg and elbow
room for five or six
LIVELY PERFORMANCE
. . . fast-stepping
21 h.p. engine
STREAMLINED-STYLISH
Holden has good looks
that will last
AND DEPENDABILITY
1
HOLDEN
Australia's Own Car
★ "Air Chief ” Radios are specially designed for
Holden. Air Chief 5-valve with a 6-inch speaker, or
Air Chief 6-valve with an 8-inch speaker.
★ Convenient hire purchase terms are available through
G.M.A.C. General Motors’ own finance company.
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN’S LIMITED
BRISBANE . SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and Serviced by Holden Dealers throughout Australia.
3828C/N:
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
In Sydney last week somebody
came to light with the brilliant notion
that since midweek racing continues
to be banned the present Saturday
meetings should be extended to pro-
vide something, presumably, in the
nature of dawn-till-dusk programmes.
Punters may be accustomed to taking
frequent lickings, but few will have
any desire to figure as all-day suckers.
It is really surprising that such a
suggestion can be made with any
seriousness. The idea would certainly
be welcomed by the bookmakers,
and might benefit a handful of
owners and trainers, but it could
only be an utter pain in the neck to
anybody and everybody else con-
nected with racing. The majority of
folk who attended the provincial
meeting at Kembla Grange (N.S.W.)
last week, when a card of 11 races
was provided, had thoroughly “had
it” well before proceedings concluded.
Rapidly-increasing costs in every
direction recently necessitated an
increase in admission fees in Sydney.
Yet now a scheme is proposed which
would at least double costs without
bringing in an extra penny of income.
The real trouble, of course, is not
that there is too little racing, but that
there are far too many inferior horses
in training. And for the basic cause
of this trouble one need only look at
the inflated catalogues for the year-
ling sales —inflated even after breeders
had cut their drafts 25 per cent, in
order to get the sales finished in four
days. Racing, breeding and the year-
ling sales have all been participating
in the general boom and following
the general inflationary trend. A big
percentage of the yearlings fetch
four-figure sums, while buyers, at
some price, can be found for prac-
tically anything on four legs. The
natural result is that far too many
yearlings are being bred, and often
pretty indiscriminately bred at that.
As well, all owners are optimists,
which, up to a point, is commend-
able. Many, however, will never be
convinced that their geese are no
swans, and trainers tend to realise
that the only thanks they are likely
to receive for offering such advice is
the loss of a patron.
With the wondrous range of
restricted-company and special-weight
events it has invented, the Sydney
Turf Club surely offers opportunities
for every class and degree of horse
that could be considered to have any
pretensions to competing in metro-
politan company. For horses below
these standards provincial and country
racing is available. It would be
greatly to the detriment of the game
to introduce provincial and country
standards to metropolitan racing, but
this, whether they realise it or not, is
the direction in which advocates ot
these more-racing schemes are heading.
Saturday’s programme at Rosehill
was typical of the good all-round fare
dished up by the S.T.C. The better-
class animals—particularly Villiers
and Summer Cup candidates—were
catered for with the Festival Handi-
cap (7f.) and the Rosehill Handicap
(10f.). The six other events comprised
two fixed-weight affairs for maiden
two-year-olds, two Mixed Stakes over
seven furlongs, another Mixed at 10
furlongs and a Welter. There had
been sufficient acceptors to have pro-
vided two more capacity fields of
24 runners, but the S.T.C. rightly
draws the line at programmes of more
than eight races, and balloting
reduced the number of acceptors to
171, with maximum fields in five
events.
The Agincourt four-year-old Hesdin
(B. Smith) made his score three in a
row, and became a firmer favorite
than ever for the Villiers, with a
thoroughly impressive win in the
Festival Handicap. About midway
back in the field of 20 at the half-
mile, Hesdin unwound a fine, long,
sustained run to score by a half-
length from Humming Top and
Acquittal; Freedom was about the
most impressive of the remainder.
Hesdin carried 8.4 (21b. more than
his Villiers impost) and cut out the
journey in race-record time of 1.245.
The newly-installed doubles tote at
Rosehill received a good advertise-
ment by paying some very choice
dividends on Saturday. For that
matter the ordinary straight-out tote
turned in some fair morsels. The
double of Hesdin with Crown Street
(N. McGrowdie), who won the Rose-
hill Handicap, paid £l6 Os. 9d. for
five-bob, but that was relative
chicken-feed. For the double operated
on the second Parramatta Mixed and
the Welter the winning combination
of Bifold (B. Smith) and Crosby (H.
Hanley) returned £B4 9s. 3d. The
other double first Parramatta
Mixed and Auburn Mixed —saw
backers of Yeoval (N. Sellwood)
and Socrates (B. Husking) collect
£215 6s. 6d.
♦ * * •
There may still exist adherents of
the belief that horses drawn on the
grandstand side have no chance in
races over the Flemington straight-six
course. Such folk must be awfully
hard to convince, or else they have
paid no attention to results over the
past couple of years. For Saturday’s
Kingsvale Handicap there were 25
starters. The eventual placegetters,
River Hero, Not Proven and Rover's
Mark, were drawn 21, 22 and 25 at
the barrier.
River Hero’s win was not untimely;
it was his first in 17 months and as
many starts. It must be just about
the height of exasperation for a
trainer to get hold of such a poten-
tially good horse as the beautifully-
bred River Hero only to find him
constantly hampered by recurring leg-
trouble. On Saturday, with J. Kerr
in the saddle, Rivette’s son was
always prominent, and eventually
scored by a head.
Although it was much the best-
endowed race of the day with £lOOO
added, the Benevolent Fund Handicap
attracted only seven runners. How-
ever, it proved more popular with
punters than it evidently had with
owners. Free Kick (J. Purtell) was
backed as though he were the only
runner, and he duly landed the oof.
Doing the job very easily, Free Kick
won by a length from Saxony, with
Bold John third.
The 10-furlongs Buxton Handicap,
which was limited to apprentice
riders, saw the promising lad G. Irons
add to his tally with a nicely-ridden
victory on the Enfield four-year-old
Golden Field. Golden Field scored
by several lengths from Bewitched
and Sundale. Even-money favorite
Stamen was in a lot of strife early,
and, with a plaster of 9.3, had little
chance of recovering.
* * * *
For Rosehill (before accept-
ances) :
Two-year-old (fillies): Merry Mer-
ton, 1; Widgee Lass, 2; Belle
d’Amour, 3. Two-year-old (colts):
Midtide, 1; Smuggler’s Hoard, 2;
Field Prince, 3. Australasian Mixed:
Beau Sandy, 1; Monarchy, 2; Per-
fect Chatter, 3. Parramatta Mixed:
Stelvio, 1; Fuselage, 2; Double
Dutch, 3. Auburn Mixed: Yeoval,
1; Constant Spear, 2; Double Sea, 3.
Flying: Even Flow, 1; Carriole, 2;
Buzmark, 3. Christmas Cup: School
Belle, 1; Ballroom, 2; lolanda, 3.
Welter: Meteor, 1; Golden Plumes,
2; Phalanx, 3.
* * ♦ *
With Brisbane weather playing its
usual tricks the first Test may not
have been exactly cricket, but it can’t
be denied it was darned good fun.
As play only extended to two-and-a-
bit days, gate receipts suffered
severely. Total attendance was 32,600
and receipts £6252, compared with
77,344 and £14,515 in 1946. But the
very nature of the game, and its out-
come, ensured that the crowds and
the cash will pour in for the next
Test.
After the first day’s play had seen
Australia all out for a mere 228,
gloom pervaded the local camp. Had
the boys but known, their seemingly
miserable tally was more than was to
be scratched together by both sides
in the remainder of the match. On
the Saturday play was washed out,
and by Monday the stage, or rather
the pitch, was set for the fireworks.
“I’ve run out of ammunition."
With two innings up his sleeve
M.C.C. skipper Brown decided to
waste no time in getting Australia in
for a second-innings dig on the
dreaded sticky. England declared at
seven for 68. As the sticky persisted,
though showing signs of improve-
ment, Hassett smartly passed the buck
back to Brown by, in turn, declaring
at seven for 32. Although, in view
of Australia’s low total, this move
involved considerable risk, it was
really the only sound course for
Hassett to adopt, and the gamble
came off. With England batting for
the second time on the Monday, the
wickets continued to fall in rapid
order. At stumps on the Monday
England had lost six for 30, and the
day’s play had seen 20 wickets fall.
On the morrow, despite a splendid
lone-hand effort by Hutton, England
was dismissed for 122, and Australia
won the Test by 70 runs. Under the
conditions prevailing it was impos-
sible, of course, to make any real
comparison of the two sides. Never-,
theless the M.C.C. team made an
infinitely better impression than they
had done previously during the tour,
and certainly Hutton’s second-innings
knock of 62 n.o. from his side’s total
of 122 was the best individual per-
formance of the match.
While the international and inter-
state cricketers occupy the limelight
the average run of Saturday afternoon
cricketers enjoy their brief moments
of glory, and in doing so often notch
up performances of which the inter-
national would be more than proud.
A few noted recently:
In New Zealand a 16-year-old
Hasting schoolboy, Alec Taylor,
playing for his college in a junior
match, took seven wickets with seven
consecutive balls.
Also in N.Z., J. Fitzpatrick, more
widely known as a Rugby referee,
bagged a double hat-trick in one
innings of a Mercantile League match.
His first treble was secured from
catches. Then he clean-bowled three
in a row.
In a first-grade match at Lithgow
(N.S.W.) Don McDermid took all
10 wickets in one innings (at a cost
of 32 runs) and then, by way ot
celebration, scored a 55 which in-
cluded five sixes and three fours.
Lastly, another schoolboy effort
from a trifle further afield. Reported
from Capetown that in a junior match
last week 16-year-old James Pothe-
cary took all 20 wickets. The only
previous record of this feat is attri-
buted to Fred Spofforth in a minor
match in 1881.
* * * *
As had happened in both the
Queensland and N.S.W. tournaments,
the Victorian Lawn Tennis champion-
ships produced a singles final between
the American national champion
Larsen and the Australian champion
Sedgman. Sedgman, who had won at
their first meeting in Brisbane, made
amends for his subsequent very
thorough defeat in Sydney by win-
ning the Victorian title on Saturday,
5- 6-3, 7-5, 6-3. Sedgman and
McGregor won the doubles title,
beating Larsen and Savitt, 11-9, 6-1,
6- 6-2.
Actually Larsen should most cer-
tainly not have contested the singles
final. Giving a choice display of
petulance and poor sportsmanship
(miscalled temperament), Larsen had
picked up his gear and walked
off the court after being foot-
faulted a couple of times during his
semi-final with McGregor. Instead
of imposing the instant and auto-
matic disqualification specified in the
rules, officials rushed to mollify his
injured feelings, and, after consider-
able pleading and cajoling, got him
back into action. Mr. Larsen should
have been allowed simply to go on
his way.
* * * *
The chief stock-in-trade of former
State flyweight champion Eddie Marks
is a bustling pugilistic representation
of perpetual motion. His non-stop
flurry of punching had disconcerted
many an opponent and had won him
21 of 23 professional fights prior to
his bumping real trouble in the shape
of Keith Francis at Leichhardt last
week. Marks (8.4-1) gave Francis
(8.7) some anxious moments in the
early rounds, but Francis’s greater
experience began to assert itself in
the eighth round, and in the ninth,
after police intervention, Francis was
awarded the fight on a t.-k.-o.


SBH.V
V
/
IttCtP*
/
uttt"
SY4O
XJDOWA W V de toil
«n
detai' h °one P ennV
'^■JS^SSS. «IW»»
\_\^\ltu 5 , t „ iv , o ur"®'
' ss® 1 * 5, *a»i* vae ’
M eV'>° v
y'ett'i-
S,
V
Using a Spray-dip.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS. "
“Big Billy”; The spray-dip is
more pleasant for the sheep and
reduces man- and dog-power. A
sump of 200-gallons capacity
will be ample. Fresh water must
be on the spot and running into
several open-top 40-gallon drums
while dipping goes on. Add the
chemicals according to instruc-
tions, stir and pour the contents
into the sump as required. A
spillway will help pouring. Sixty
sheep will take out about 60gal.
of mixture.
Spray with a fair amount of
force and for up to eight
minutes. In a good season fleece
is denser and greasier than nor-
mal, so needs stronger and
longer spraying. Although a
4-h.p. engine is stipulated, a
tractor can do the job, A pres-
sure-gauge will be useful for
keeping up the desired amount of
velocity in the spray. Pay par-
ticular attention to the centri-
fugal pump and see that it is
packed correctly.
Don’t yard the sheep over-
night, as their feet become
fouled, and the dirt is
carried into the dip. Clean the
dip-pen after every 1000 sheep.
An advantage of a small sump
is that only 60 to 70 gallons are
wasted in each cleaning.
Mallee Pastures.
“M”: In tests at the Mallee
Research Station, Walpeup
(Vic.), Department of Agricul-
ture researchers find that of pas-
ture grasses tried barrel-clover
and Wimmera-rye-grass show
the greatest promise. For a bal-
anced pasture they recommend
11b. to 21b, of barrel-clover and
21b. to 41b. of Wimmera-rye-
seed per acre, using wheat as a
cover crop.
These pasture species provide
a greater bulk of fodder over a
longer growing season than
native pastures, while lucerne
provides a green pick through
the summer and gives a good
bulk of feed following summer
and early-autumn rains. If sow-
ing lucerne the rate is 21b. of
seed per acre.
Dalgety’s Review.
“C.S.”: Dalgety’s 52nd
annual wool “Review,” just
published, tries to view the extra-
ordinary 1949-50 season in its
normal calm and sensible way,
though it is obvious that the
even more extraordinary 1950-
51 season has been looming over
the compilers’ efforts.
The firm finds several fixed
things in a world full of change,
the main one being the con-
tinued demand for wool at
record prices. There has been
no improvement in the cut per
sheep; it averaged 8.81b. for
1950, but it was that in 1927
and 1929. High prices, of
course, are unlikely to stimulate
production per sheep, but
graziers will make a mistake if
they slow down efforts in that
line. A country with a rapidly-
growing population and subdi-
vision of large estates must
achieve greater primary produc-
tion per acre.
Dalgety’s “Review” makes a
thorough and comprehensive
survey of the Australian and
New Zealand wool industries, as
well as those of other countries
and world fibre production
generally. It is as good a refer-
ence-book as anyone could
wish for.
Table Ducks.
“Myrrhee”: No use raising
them unless they get as much of
the right food as they will eat.
Like most ravenous feeders,
they’re not overfastidious, and,
given rubbish, will satisfy their
appetites, though the inferior
food will slow down their
growth-rate to an uneconomic
level.
On present prices in Victoria
it’s possible to obtain a good
margin of profit by giving only
the best of foods. Suitable
mashes are: wet, pollard 571 b.,
bran 281 b., meatmeal 141 b., salt
lib.; dry, wheatmeal 401 b., pol-
lard 201 b., bran 151 b., meat-
meal 171 b., linseed-meal 71b. and
salt lib.
Four or five rabbits boiled
and mixed in the mash equal lib.
of average meatmeal. Where
there are cows the wet mash is
better if mixed with skim-milk.
Where green-feed is unprocur-
able use a fish-oil substitute to
provide the vitamin A. Up to
three weeks old feed them mash
four or five times daily, there-
alter feeding grain in increasing
amounts, gradually reducing the
quantities of mash until they’re
on a 50-50 mash-grain ration.
From three weeks gradually re-
duce the number of feeds until
they’re getting three a day.
Shellgrit and pure water are
essential. Make water-troughs
deep enough for the ducklings
to submerge their heads, but
prevent them from getting their
feet into the water.
The Northern Seed-bed.
“W. Court”: In our N.Q.
humid climate I get best results
with light soils containing plenty
of sand when seed-raising.
Heavy soils hold too much mois-
ture between waterings.
Trouble is certain if a seed-
bed is let dry out and then given
a good soaking to “make up.”
The bed needs to be kept damp,
not wet, all the time.
' However, despite all care,
“damping off” may occur. Most
seedlings are susceptible. Here’s
Queensland Agricultural De-
partment’s cure for the trouble:
Mix 11 parts of ammonium car-
bonate and two parts of blue-
stone (both in fine powder) and
allow to stand in a well-stop-
pered glass-jar for 24 hours.
Use loz. of mixture to 2gal. of
water and water the patch of
seedlings with the solution.
Cut-worms may be behind the
“damping off,” and the standard
bran-arsenic-molasses bait for
them is well known.
Care of the Dog.
“Moira”; To get rid of sore
feet and eczema between the
toes a dog’s diet must receive
attention. Raw meat is necessary
once a day, but not offal. Raw
vegetables, such as carrots, could
be minced and added to oatmeal.
The dog should not be overfed,
or vegetables may be refused.
Milk is good and a tonic is
advisable.
Foot troubles are not always
caused by burrs or heat. Bathe
the sore foot with washing-soda
and hot water (one teaspoon to
a pint) and dry it well. Powdered
alum in 5 p.c. solution or 5 p.c.
sulphate of zinc, prepared by a
chemist, should be applied
daily. Patience is necessary as
the cure is slow. Painting with
weak tincture of iodine relieves
itching.
Color and Bees.
“Colin Street”: The color of
hive roofs has received only
minor attention from beekeepers,
but trials in New Zealand indi-
cate that the color has a con-
siderable effect on the interior
temperature of hives. Roofs
painted green, black or red keep
the hives warmest. Aluminium,
white and cream have the oppo-
site effect, and, consequently, are
more suitable for warmer locali-
ties.
In the past most apiarists have
painted their hive roofs only for
protection from the weather, but
“I thought y' told me it Was a buck's party last night!"
the N.Z. trials indicate that con-
sideration should be given to the
effect of roof color on hive
temperature.
Hemlock a Noxious Weed.
“Agric”; Hemlock, famous
in history as a poison used in
ancient Greece, has been de-
declared a noxious weed in
Queensland, having proved fatal
to children who played with the
hollow stalks as whistles or
pipes, and to cattle after eating
small plants picked up with a
mouthful of grass.
In the Gatton district this one-
time garden weed is spreading
down creek systems. Hemlock is
a big, coarse, annual plant grow-
ing normally to five or six feet,
the stem at this stage being as
thick as a man’s wrist and having
a faint purple mottling. The
leaves are Jong and similar to
those of an overgrown carrot.
Normally, stock keep their dis-
tance from the objectionable
mouse-like smell the plant emits,
but death has occurred through
cattle eating small plants with
grass. It is susceptible to hor-
mone spray.
Spring Pigs.
“A. Jay”: Late - farrowed
spring litters should receive
special attention when they are
approaching weaning age.
Creep-feeding is the secret of
getting heavy weaners, obtained
by having a supply of meal and
milk always before the litter.
Weaned pigs must be well fed,
and if meal has been used be-
fore weaning it should be used
for at least a fortnight after
weaning to avoid an after-
weaning check. As the skimmed-
milk supply increases so should
the meal ration be reduced.
It is preferable to feed meal
to weaners up to half their daily
rations and give the milk saved
to the store pigs rather than feed
meal to the older pigs at this
stage.
Overfat Pigs.
“Oxo”: K. B. Jones, a
prominent Queensland pi g-
producer, has been urging that
bacon factories should pay a
higher price for quality pigs.
The secretary of the Bacon
Curers’ Association had written
regretting the increase in overfat
pigs supplied to factories, and
suggesting that pig-raisers should
visit a factory to see the position
from the factory’s viewpoint.
Pig men, however, contend that
no action to reduce supplies of
overfat pigs would be of any
use while buyers were prepared
to pay top prices for them.
If bacon factories paid 2d. to
4d. per pound more for the class
of pig favored by bacon-curers
the trouble would soon be over-
come.
Poultry and Wheal.
“G.R.C.”: Provided young
stock which have inherited lay-
ing capabilities are introduced
into the flock each year and old
birds and obvious culls thrown
out there is no reason why egg-
production should not be in-
creased on the average wheat-
belt farm.
First call on any food a bird
eats is for body maintenance —
approximately of food per
day is required for a light-breed
pullet and 3£oz, for a heavy
breed. An extra lioz. plus
water is required to produce a
2oz. egg. If the birds are under-
fed egg-production will ‘suffer.
For good production a bird
should be fed a ration contain-
ing approximately 15 per cent,
protein. An excess of carbo-
hydrates and fats will not com-
pensate for a deficiency in pro-
teins. They will cause the birds
to become too fat. Wheat con-
tains approximately 10 per cent,
protein, 2 per cent, fat and 72
per cent, carbohydrates, or, in
other words, enough protein to
lay an egg every three days and
enough carbohydrates and fats
to lay three eggs a day. In order
to balance this ration it is neces-
sary to add a protein-rich
supplement.
Meat-meal is the best. It is
rich in protein—so per cent, to
60 per cent. —and is relatively
low in fat (11.5 per cent.) and
carbohydrates (5.5 per cent.).
The following ration, fed as
a dry mash, should give good
results: Gristed wheat, 801 b.;
meat-meal, 151 b.; bone-meal,
41b.
When meat-meal is hard to
get and a supply of skim-milk
is available the ration could be
gristed wheat, 1001 b.; meat-
meal, l\\h. ; bone-meal, 51b.,
plus about 3gal. of skim-milk
for each 100 birds. The milk
must be fresh and all containers
kept clean.
The hens will also require a
plentiful supply of green-feed,
but on most farms they are
given free range and can look
after their own requirements
most of the year. When green-
feed is not available, make it so.
Lucerne is best, and silver-beet
is fairly quick-growing and has
the advantage of being able to
thrive on water which is too
highly mineralised for lucerne.
The Stirrup-pump.
“V.M.S.”: Stirrup - pumps,
A.R.P. type, are handy about
the place. They can be used on
a great variety of jobs. Spraying
disinfectant over the shearing-
board at knock-off time each
day, for instance, is a worth-
while job.
The pump is good for jetting
or spraying dressing on to fly-
blown sheep. If it is not con-
sidered necessary to shear the
wool off the blown area (more
graziers are adopting this idea
every day) it is very easy for one
man to catch the sheep and the
other to work the stirrup-pump.
Less fluid is used than with any
other method, and it is fast.
A stirrup-pump will put out a
small grass-fire ; is excellent for
forcing waste sump-oil and kero,
into the cracks in the fowlhouse
if there are ticks around. To
clean a dirty engine spray with
kero, or distillate, then a strong
jet of water. Hot water will do
an even cleaner job.
You can help the sheep by
spraying their backs with
preparations for fly-control. Two
men with stirrup-pumps can
treat sheep from both sides at
once if they are in small pens.
Minerals for Stock.
“Mr.”: Sodium and chlorine
can be cheaply supplied as com-
mon salt. Animals which sweat
a lot need constant supplies of
salt, and a horse doing heavy
work should receive to
2oz. daily. Cattle, sheep, pigs
and poultry also need salt, but


The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
grinder discs-r-recommended for shearing-shed work.
m
Maim
40z., Boz., 16dz. t 1 gallon sizes . . . Hardware and general stores.
“TROUBLE-FREE” TRANSPORT
»**»*^?*!
,
v
&$>-
HART’S
RADIO SERVICE
of Queen’s Park, W.A., is
more than pleased with their
Bradford Utility . . .
“After 6 months’ trouble-free running, the speedo has just
turned the 5,000 mile mark. We have averaged 44.4 miles per
gallon and only 2 pints of oil were needed for topping up.
This is certainly the utility for economical running.
Call on your local representative and hear more
about the amazing performance of Bradford vehicles.
All are powered with the sturdy, horizontally-
opposed engine designed by Jowett, the exclusive
engineering principle which makes it possible to offer
you a \ tonner with an economical 8 h.p. engine.
Bradford
VANS • STATION WAGGONS • TRUCKS
Mad« ia Bradford, England, by JOWETT CARS LTD.
COMMONWEALTH DISTRIBUTORS;
N.S.W. and A.0.T.: Bradford Vehicles Pty. Ltd., 134 New South Head Road,
Edgeclifl. FM 2045. ~
Victoria: Liberty Motors (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., 149-155 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
Telephone JM 1494.
Queensland: Redman Motors, 46-54 Edward Street Brisbane. .
South Aust.: British Engineering Appliances Ltd., 430 King William St., Adelaide.
Western Aust.: Western Motor Co. Pty. Ltd., 722 Wellington Street, Perth.
Tasmania: Donald Gorringe Pty. Ltd., 72 Argyle Street, Hobart.
Bradford 8 h.p., 10
cwl. utility as sup-
plied to Mr. Hart,
Queen's Park,
Western Aust
MARK
YOUR LAMBS & CALVES WITH
EIASTRATOH
(Hegd Trade Mark)
A PRODUCT OF ELASTRATOR (AUST.) PTY.
125 William Street, Melbourne
EL 14.
"SIRIUS"
MINOR
DUMPY
LEVEL
For contour levelling, irrigation
and drainage, building, con-
struction. Complete with case
and tripod. With horizontal
circle in single degrees. Avail-
able for immediate delivery.
Also Abney Levels, Pris-
matic Compasses, Optical
Square, General Survey and
Drafting Requirements.
|||^
£4O/12/6
ZMkAi
* <2 HUNTER STB SET. SYDNEY.
AND SONS
PTY. LTD.
Write for
Illustrated
Brochure.
BW 8631.
SEED SOWING * FERTILISING • PEST CONTROL
BNIH
VM
f
Do your seed sowing, fertilising and pest control by air.
It's speedy, it's economical. Scientifically designed equip-
ment assures correct poundage per acre and even distri-
bution. For Jurther details and name of nearest agent
write to
AIR-GRICULTURE
CONTROL LIMITED
w . > \ V/ ■ ■ ,
Aerial i. on tractors
77 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
TELEPHONE: M 3347 TELEGRAMS: "AIRSPRAY" SYDNEY
ƒ
iwOLFE’S
DISTILLED IN AUSTRALIA
FROM
noon m woifii misiim. fowwu
AROMATIC ALCOHOLIC BEVE
MIT: 1 PINT 111. OZS.
WS. 163.12*
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
The moderate
use of Wolfe’s
Schnapps has been
recognised for
generations as a
health-giving
stimulant.
in smaller quantities, and this is
best supplied in a lick which is
constantly available.
Next to salt, minerals most
likely to be deficient in the ration
of farm animals are calcium and
phosphorus. These two, in vari-
ous forms, make up about three-
fourths of the mineral matter
in the bodies of farm animals,
and over 90 per cent, of this is
in their skeletons. Growing or
pregnant animals and those pro-
ducing milk need a liberal allow-
ance or bone weaknesses will
soon make their appearance in
the form of lameness, stiffness
or breakages.
Topdressing with super,
lessens the risk of phosphorus
deficiency, while calcium needs
can be made good by adding
up to 2 p.c. of ground limestone
to the feed. Phosphorus, if
needed, can be fed either as a
lick or in the feed in the form
of dicalcic phosphate or bone-
meal.
Grow Onions.
“Taswegian”; No one with a
bit of backyard need go short of
onions; they’re easy to grow.
It’s best to raise your own
plants, and a shilling’s-worth of
seed will supply enough onions
for a small family for a year.
Lime the ground, break it up
finely and sow the seed thickly
in drills about a foot apart.
Don’t have rich soil; a plot that
was manured the previous sea-
son is best. Sow the seed before
winter and the plants will be
ready in spring. Keep the young
plants free from weeds.
Transplant when they are four
or five inches high; choose a
cool day, water the prepared
drills, lift the plants carefully to
preserve the roots, cut a couple
of inches from the tops and
plant firmly (roots only covered)
about four inches apart in rows
a foot apart. While the plants
are young a very weak applica-
tion of nitrate of soda, or sul-
phate of ammonia (a dessert-
spoonful in a couple of gallons
of water), or weak liquid cow-
manure (the color of very weak
tea) will help them get a flying
start.
Hoe often between the rows
and keep the weeds down. Don’t
let soil cover the bulbs. Don’t
tread the tops down ; let them
die, then pull the onions and
leave them on the ground, tops
covering bulbs, until they dry
off. Don’t gather them if they
are damp ; wait until they are
perfectly dry, then cut the tops
just above the bulb, trim off the
roots so they won’t attract mois-
ture, rub off dirt and loose
flakes of skin, then store in a dry
place where air can circulate
freely.
Brown Spanish will keep
until the next crop, but try a
few odorless; these will keep
only two or three months, but
they are delicious in salads and
either boiled or baked. Small
plants pulled when thinning-out
can be eaten as spring onions,
tops and all.
Hints for the Farm.
“K.T.”: It is the aim of every
poultry-farmer to rear his pullets
as cheaply as possible, and if
milk is available the mash can
be mixed much thinner without
retarding their growth. Don’t
try it with a water-mixed mash.
Plenty of free range is advan-
tageous.
“Rooster”: When scrubbing
dairy floors tie a hose to the
broom in such a way that the
outlet falls just over the front of
the broom. In this way a con-
stant stream of water falls
ahead of the operator and a
clean job results.
“R.W.”: Most instructions on
the growing of tomatoes warn
against watering overhead. I
have never watered them any
other way in my N.S.W. plots,
considering it to be nature’s
method. There are two pre-
cautions to be strictly observed ;
the spray must be light and
misty, and the watering must be
done when the sun is not likely
to scorch the plants.
“Sundowner”; An important
attribute of ryecorn, used as a
drift-arrester in the Mallee, is
that lambs don’t scour on it.
Sow bushels per acre for
greenfeed and grain on a fal-
low. A sowing in March will
give good spring feed, but it can
oe sown at the 1-2 bushels rate
in December-January. It should
be ready for grazing four to six
weeks later,
“A. Jay”; Certain precautions
may be taken to reduce risk of
bloat, and these include provision
of hay and other supplementary
feed in early spring—so that
cows are not unduly hungry
when turned out to graze—and
the mowing and wilting of clover
before grazing it. The daily
mowing of a break of clovery
pasture does not take much time,
nor does it entail as much work
as that necessary to watch the
herd and attend to blown cows
on an uncut pasture.
“Zee”: When cutting the
wings off fowls to keep them
grounded don’t hack the feathers
off, leaving rough edges. Cleanly
cutting out the centre flights of
one wing is all that is necessary.
“Quorn”: Plants in small tins
will die if left exposed too long
to the heat in summer. They do
well, though, if placed in a
trench where the sun will not
strike on the tins. Watering a
large number of plants is simpli-
fied if they are in rows of
trenches, and many young trees
or cuttings can thus be raised
with ease.
“Biro”: Don’t imagine that
shell-grit, limestone, etc., are
sufficient for poultry. They are
necessary for bone-formation,
but something more is needed
periodically for the gizzard for
grinding of food, especially
grasses and raw vegetables.
Pieces of flint and coarse sand
are good. If turned out on a
gravelly run the birds will choose
sufficient hard pieces to grind
their food for weeks. Sanding
the runs is a good idea.
“Mr.”: Four scholarships for
Victorian students in veterinary
science at Melbourne and Sydney
universities are on offer by the
Vic. Government. All fees will
be paid, and while the student is
in Sydney he will receive a
living allowance of £l5O a year.
Apply to the Chief Veterinary
Inspector, Department of Agri-
culture, Melbourne, C 2.


It’s that
Wrams face
again...
n
mm
y
#
a
iv
Oh, the smooth clean softness of an
Ingrams face . . . that means instant
approval from the people you want to
please 1
Face fresh as the ocean beach, cool as the
sea breeze . . . that’s what Ingrams Shaving
Cream does for youl Get a Jar from your
chemist tomorrow.
A Product of Bristol-Myers
ngrams
SHAVING CREAM
IS-21
We
■
% HAV\Hp
f
It’s a comforting thought to know that your
Canadian Pacific Airlines pilot is a veteran
of at least 10,000 flying hours.
Thousands of miles of experience have
taught Canadian Pacific captains the art of
“comfort flying” . . . they have you in mind
from take-off to touch-down.
Your stewardess, too, brings you efficient,
courteous service.
Stop-over at
Honolulu—FßEE!
A cordial welcome awaits
you at the famous MO AN A
Hotel—where you stay for
a day as Canadian Pacific’s
guest. Ample time to 101 l
on Waikiki Beach—drive
around scenic Oahu Island
—swim or ride the surf-boards. Dance outdoors
under the stars at night on the famous Banyan Court.
For further details apply Canadian Pacific Railway
Company, or Union Steam Ship Co. (General
Agents), 247 George Street, Sydney, and 59 William
Street, Melbourne, or any authorised Tourist Agency.
CoMxJjim
AIRLINES V
"THE WINGS OF THE WORLD'S GREATEST TRAVEL SYSTEM 1
Canadian Pacific Air. Lines Limited Incorporated In Canada
f
VC
v
i/ 1 "
U*
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Australian Films
In most cases the people who
run an industry know more
about it than those on the out-
side, but in the case of film-
making in Australia so many
mistakes are evident, so much
good material lies neglected
while films are based upon
third - rate, written -to - order
scenarios, and there is such an
obsession in regard to bushrang-
ing while real romances are
overlooked that the usual rule
does not hold good.
Instead of filming the usual
poor stock stuff it would be
better to base film scenarios on
Australian books written by
people who knew something of
this country. A good example
can be found in Simpson New-
land’s novel Paving the Way.
Despite faults in craftsmanship,
the basic material provides all
that is required in a film of ad-
venture and romance.
Another good film could be
based upon portions of Xavier
Herbert’s Capricornia. It could
be shot against the background
of North Queensland’s magnifi-
cent scenery, and the story of
human passions and conflicts in
this novel has few equals. If
“thrillers” are wanted, the novels
of Arthur Upfield provide some
good plots with a genuine Aus-
tralian background. For
straight-out adventure there is
the story of the life of Alexander
Tolmer, of gold-escort fame,
which is faithfully recorded in
his two volumes of reminis-
cences. Across the Tasman in
New Zealand there is another
store of neglected material to
be found in books such as Old
New Zealand or Pounamu;
there are also the histories of
those two Polynesian Napoleons,
Hongi Hika and Te Rauparaha,
Perhaps the greatest oppor-
tunity for the making of an un-
usual and gripping film can be
found in the saga of the canoe-
borne migrations of the ances-
tors of the Maori from the
Society Islands to New Zealand
between the years 1250-1350 a.d.
Such a film could open with
Kupe, the Polynesian Columbus,
returning to his homeland to re-
count the wonders which he had
seen on his remarkable voyage.
That could be followed by the
survivors on the losing side in
a bitter inter-island war setting
off in big double-canoes to seek
a new home in the great south
land discovered by Kupe, with
the hardships endured en route
by the crews of some of the
canoes, such as the one com-
manded by Turi. The tragic
legend of Apakura could be
woven into the tale, as well as
the romance of Hinemoa.
Sir Peter Buck, the dis-
tinguished Maori director of the
Bernice P. Bishop Museum in
Hawaii, could supply the data
needed for the historical back-
ground, and valuable aid could
also be given by the Polynesian
Society, whose headquarters are
at Wellington, N.Z. It is a pity
that so much fine film material,
with the box-office attraction of
complete novelty, should be
lying fallow while Australian
films are based upon hackneyed
themes and mediocre plots.—
H. A. Lindsay (S.A.).
Executions
I get an occasional copy of a
Singapoie weekly. In the last
issue there is a letter asking why
captured terrorists are not im-
mediately executed in public—
and in the territory in which they
are taken? The writer contends
that this method would quickly
deter other terrorists and send
them back to their peaceful padi-
fields.
I don’t know. Public execu-
tions never seem to be much of
a deterrent to the native. At the
conclusion of the court-martial
on the whole of the Fifth Indian
Regiment for the Singapore
mutiny of 1915, 51 members
were sentenced to death, the rest
to long terms of imprisonment.
Came the day when the con-
demned men were stood against
the wall at Pearl Hill to face the
firing-squad. Every man refused
to be blindfolded, and met death
bravely, standing as impassive
and rigid as if on parade.
The less said about the execu-
tion the better, but I have my
doubts on its deterrent effects.
As far as the Malays, Chinese,
Tamils and the rest of Singapore’s
cosmopolitan inhabitants were
concerned, it was a wonderful
day. All the vantage-points were
crowded with the seething mob,
so that nothing would be missed.
The Malays were dressed in their
most colorful sarongs and bajus,
the others carried picnic-baskets.
The portable restaurants did a
roaring trade, and all the spec-
tators thoroughly enjoyed it —I
saw adults lifting their children
so the youngsters wouldn’t miss
the actual volley.
I also heard many expressions
of regret that the whole lot ot
the mutineers should be executed
at the one sitting, so to speak.
The idea was that it would
have been much more enjoyable
had the executions been carded
out over a period of weeks. Any-
how, the natives certainly en-
joyed it all. I didn’t. — Kali
(W.A.).
Wages and Prices
“Hackem” (B. 29/11/’5O)
seeks to prove that the bosses
and the workers are equally to
blame for rising costs, but while
faithfully repeating the stale old
arguments he unconsciously
states that the increasing short-
ages are deliberately planned by
the wage - plugs and their
appointed leaders.
He admits that “the worker
refuses to work his fastest be-
cause he doesn’t want a return
to overproduction and depres-
sion conditions,” since “the
early ’thirties are still in his
mind.” In other words, he re-
fuses to exert himself in spite of
rest periods, sick leave and all
the other amenities offered and
accepted.
Then “H.” states that “the
only way to raise production
and lower wages is to remove
the subversive elements.” That
is an admission that the worker
is controlled by malcontents who
enforce the quotas, dargs,
strikes and go-slow tactics which
reduce production to the lowest
possible rate. Does “H.” forget
that the subversive elements are
elected to their positions of
power by the workers them-
selves, and that it is the same
workers who fiercely resent the
removal of the obstructionists?
Fair go, “H.” You’ve ad-
mitted that the workers reduce
their output in obedience to the
orders of their chosen leaders
and that their object is to pre-
vent supplies from becoming
plentiful.— Nuff Sed (S.A.).
History in Schools
The most insidious act of
Communists and fellow-travel-
lers in the Teachers’ Federation
(N.S.W.) was the removal of
history as a compulsory subject
for the leaving-certificate during
the early years of the war.
The result of this simple act
was that high-school teachers
discouraged children from the
study of history—it wasn’t neces-
sary. And, as a result, a great
number of young Australians
now in the later teen-ages have
grown up without any back-
ground knowledge of the great
events in our history which led
up to our present democratic
way of life. In no small measure
that fact alone is having a major
effect on enlistments in the
services today.
Our youth today has missed
the spur of reading of the mili-
tary achievements of their fore-
fathers ; they do not understand
why wars are fought; they have
not that inexplicable something
which urges a man to serve his
country. They’re missing the
inspiration of history.
Even those who go on to a
university training are not en-
couraged to study the real reason
for Britain’s greatness. The final-
year Arts paper in history is
proof enough of this. Every
question asked deals with poli-
tical history as it affected the
masses; not one question calls
for a knowledge of Britain’s part
in world development, nor is any
reference required to any one of
the great colonial figures.
I know there are two sides to
history. What I object to is the
teaching of only one of them.
One student put it to me this
way: “The more I study the re-
quired reading the more Com-
munistic I become.”
Is it any wonder if univer-
sity students are embryo
Commos? Is it surprising that
Communist influence in the
Teachers’ Federation is so great?
I suggest to parents that they
insist on their children taking
history at high school and that
they check with their boys and
girls just how and what they’re
being taught. It would be en-
lightening.—Wilken (N.S.W.),


\2
vo*®
\0
JAe
NOW AVAILABLE again
CONSULT YOUR OWN JEWELLER
Missing Friend.
WOULD any person knowing the where-
abouts of relatives of ALFRED ARM-
STRONG MacKENZIE, formerly of Mel-
bourne, but resident in New Zealand for
(he last 43 years, please contact the
DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Auckland,
New Zealand.
Public Notice.
I, MIKE PENOVICH, of Yugoslav nation-
ality, bom at Gospich, Yugoslavia, resi-
dent 22 years in Australia, now residing
at Waratah Street, Mona Yale, intend to
apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Eire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in ail Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
TROUT FLIES
TIED TO ORDER!
By arrangement with the makers of RISE Trout
Flies we can supply special types, to your
own specifications, at short notice
Forward sample fly with order.
The makers’ long study of flies and
fly-tying ensures excellent quality. Minimum
quantity 1 doz. of any pattern.
CRAIG & AITKEN PTY. LTD.
624 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. M 6261
Etns
m
Hargrave Memorial
The Royal Society of London
has made a very wise decision
anent a memorial to that great
scientist, the late Lord Ruthei-
ford. Instead of a building—
which only too often becomes
something of a white elephant—
there will be scholarships in
physical sciences. It draws
attention to the proposal for a
similar memorial to Lawrence
Hargrave, the Australian who
was one of the real pioneers of
aviation.
Unlike Rutherford, whose
work was recognised during his
lifetime, Hargrave received no
honors worth mentioning. To
most people he was an old crank
who flew kites and watched sea-
birds wheeling in the updraughts
along ocean cliffs, and who built
some little model aeroplanes
which flew short distances. Even
the scientists of his day paid
scant attention to the papers
which he wrote. But in America
two young bicycle-makers, Wil-
bur and Orville Wright, found in
those papers some of the infor-
mation which enabled them to
build the first machine to fly
with a human being at the con-
trols. When they wrote to Har-
grave to ask if they could use
his patents, they received a reply
to the effect that none of his
discoveries had been patented —
he had given them to the world.
After his death a fund was
started to erect some fitting
memorial to the pioneering work
of Hargrave, but the public lost
interest in it. There is now over
£lOOO lying idle in the hands of
the N. S. Wales Commissioner
for Dormant Funds. Nine
months ago, after investigating
the matter, I proposed, in the
pages of The Bulletin, that this
£lOOO be used to endow a
scholarship in aeronautical
engineering, as a really fitting
memorial to Hargrave, and that
he should receive another tribute
by naming Adelaide’s new air-
port at West Beach after him.
It is pleasing to note that
Defence Minister Mcßride has
taken up both suggestions with
his colleague, T, W. White,
Minister for Air.
These days, however, the in-
terest on £lOOO won’t go far in
paying the fees of a student, so
the further suggestion is now r
made that this fund be reopened
in the hope that additional con-
tributions will bring the capital
sum to £2OOO or more. If all
Australian airlines contribute an
average of £lOO apiece and the
Federal Government makes good
any deficiency, the target should
soon be reached. — H. A. Lindsay
(S.A.).
Farm Jobs
The Commonwealth Employ-
ment Service (late Manpower) is
making heroic efforts to find
harvest-workers. At least in this
State (S.A.) the manpower bloke
is offering farm-work at various
weekly wages for 44, 48 and 56
hours.
The joke is on the worker, who
finds when he gets on
the job that the
“cocky” is working
any old hours just
like he always did.
And he maintains
that he never men-
tioned hours to the
employment office.
For my part I don’t
care tuppence what
hours I work because
there’s nothing much
else to do in a strange
area, but I can see
the “no-understand”
attitude of a New
Australian in such
circumstances.
The cocky, on the
other hand, should
use his present real
prosperity to do
something about
amenities for his
casual workers.
Most of us were
thoroughly earbashed
in the services about
personal hygiene. A
cold shower, decent
latrine and a copper
for washing should
be in the terms of
any farm - employ -
ment offer today. It
would pay dividends, too, be-
cause, apart from the increased
efficiency which contentment
brings out of the worker, the
news soon gets to the ears of
the doss-house keepers, who pass
it on to the casuals who blow in
looking for work each season. —
Mikyo (S.A.).
“Australian Wines”
“In Vino Veritas” (B. 1 /11 /’5O)
says that nowhere db we see it
stated our wines are as good as
any, and that they are, in fact,
with some exceptions, markedly
inferior to many.
There can be no sound basis
for such a generalisation. Every
wine country produces various
grades of wine, and obviously
our lower-grade wines cannot be
compared with the higher-grade
wines of other countries, or vice
versa,
Australia produces fine wines
which compare favorably with
fine wines produced anywhere in
the world. That is proved by
the awards won by Australian
wines in international competi-
tion at trade fairs and exhibi-
tions. The most recent instance
was the top place gained by an
Australian champagne against
all-comers at the International
". . . .Seven, eight, nine — OUT!”
Wine Show held at Sacramento,
U.S.A., in September.
Australia also produces good
commercial wines sold under
brand names which compare
favorably with commercial
wines made anywhere in the
world, both as regards quality
and price.
“1.V.V.” complains that vint-
age wines—in other words, our
finest wines—are not readily
available in Australian catering,
but it should be remembered
that the bulk of the public de-
mand is for ordinary commercial
wines at low cost.
“1.V.V.” says our principal
aim should be to develop over-
seas markets. A lot is being done
in that direction. The Aus-
tralian Wine Board maintains a
permanent overseas representa-
tive with headquarters in Lon-
don. It also exhibits at trade
exhibitions in those countries
where there is a prospective sub-
stantial market.
“There should be no more ex-
port of inferior stuff.” There
isn’t. All wine exported is in-
spected by qualified people
appointed by the Common-
wealth Government, who certify
as to its fitness for export.
For the U.K., says “1.V.V.”
the wines must be comparable
with the wines of Western
Europe. Here again it must be
borne in mind there are two
distinct markets —the fine-wine
market and the ordinary com-
mercial market. Because of
stock and economic considera-
tions, Australian exporters have
catered almost entirely for the
latter —which is made up of
people on small incomes who
have little or no interest in the
higher-priced vintage wines.
Such people endorsed the
quality and good value of our
commercial wines by buying
them to the tune of three to four
million gallons a year until the
U.K. Government put prices be-
yond their reach through pro-
hibitive import duties.
“LV.V.” also suggests we
should hold a highly technical
and exact survey of the climate
and soil of our continent to
ascertain what it is capable of
producing in quality and kind
and amount. The State Gov-
ernments of N. S. Wales, Vic-
toria, S.A, and W.A. all main-
tain a viticultural section in their
Departments of Agriculture, and
can already provide much valu-
able information in that connec-
tion.—K. T. Hardy, Chairman,
Australian Wine Board.
Profit-sharing
There can be no question that
increased production is a matter
of incentives. The hardest-work-
ing people in this country are
the farmers, and the hardest-
working of them all are the
share-farmers. The reason they
work so hard is that if they don’t
they miss out on the returns; if
they do they cash-in in a big
way.
That is private enterprise in its
simplest form. Surely it can be
adapted to the major industries
where production increase is
essential.
According to “Business, Rob-
bery,” etc. (B. 1/11/ ’50) David
Jones, Ltd., have employees as
shareholders. In the steel and
coal industries there are tough
babies on both sides, and a his-
tory of industrial strife behind.
For all that, I cannot see any
union successfully opposing an
issue of bonus shares to its mem-
bers, nor can I see much future
for Communist office-bearers in
a union in which the members
are shareholders in the industry
employing them. — Mikyo (S.A.).
F oolpaths-T raffic
The suggestion (B. 18/10/’50)
that Sydney’s footpaths should
be brought back inside the build-
ing frontage is a sound one. It
can be seen in practice at Perth
G.P.O., where, although there is
a wide outer pavement, the inner
one saves congestion. With some
improvisation the idea could be
applied fairly quickly to a
whole city block, greatly in-
creasing the space available for
wheeled traffic.
A slower but more permanent
solution would be to take the
footpaths upstairs. All that is
needed is a City Council by-law
providing that all new buildings
must have a broad balcony at,
say, the second floor. Intersec-
tions could be bridged to
separate the foot-traffic system
completely from the vehicular
system.
It would take perhaps 50 years
to raise the footpaths of an entire
city, but even the first bridged
intersection would lower the
accident rate and relieve traffic
congestion. The narrow streets
of most Australian cities could
easily accommodate their motor
traffic if the flow were not inter-
rupted by pedestrians.— Robert
Howie (W.A.).
Poets’ Corner
So Eve Merritt takes excep-
tion to the projected establish-
ment of an Australian “Poets’
Corner.” Seemingly she had
logic on her side—she stressed
the greater needs of living poets
for both recognition and susten-
ance. It is true that the majority
of them, past and present, would
not even starve decently if they
devoted themselves to the service
of the Muse alone.
But surely “E.M.” has over-
looked an important aspect of
memorials to dead poets. In a
community which readily sub-
scribes to “bob-in” funds for
sportsmen, “quads” and the like,
a Poets’ Corner would serve
as a permanent reminder that
there are such things as poets
and poetry. Although it is too
much to hope that the patronage
of the public would be fully
equal to the occasion, at least
some would be awakened to the
fact that there is an Australian
literary tradition in process of
development.
Rod Quinn in his lifetime was
more fortunate than many poets.
Kindly, gentle and almost child-
like in his belief in human sin-
cerity and mateship, he knew to
the last the comfort of a good
home. But he was always a
stalwart in the cause of his
fellow-writers, and the com-
mittee of this appeal feels that
its objectives of making his
grave worthy of a true poet, and
hanging a plaque in some public
position which may become a
“Poets’ Corner,” is indeed a
worth-while cause. — Walter W.
Stone, secretary Rod Quinn
Fund.


It looked like a Bar to the
D. 5.0., particularly as the
admiral had been present, and
Dad was a sprightly forty-three
as he climbed to the bridge that
clear, frosty morning a few
minutes before we slipped to
escort some heavy stuff acting as
over-the-horizon protection to a
large Murmansk convoy.
We were in the middle of the
destroyer trot, a long moored
line of lean boats smelling the
wind. Dad had his eyes on a
flag streaming from the leader’s
halliards ; it dropped. All down
the line heads were turned,
orders snapped, barked or
spoken, eight slip-wires snaked
out eight fairleads, eight red
buoys surged back with the sud-
den release of weight, and, as
one, eight destroyers moved
slowly ahead, nosing the next
ahead’s wake, and at the given
point eight knives of bows
turned and headed, still in
mathematical line, at 12 knots
for the open sea.
For two days we steamed
north without sighting our con-
voy. We weren’t meant to, and,
in any case, the driving sleet
reduced visibility to not much
further than “A” gun. Our job
was to hang on the port (sea-
ward) flank of the fat-bellied
merchantmen in case they had a
crack with what we knew were
cringing in Norwegian fjords,
like dingoes who would bare
their teeth only at a helpless feed.
We had had our share of cold
and wet in the Atlantic, but here
the spray froze solid. But when
you’ve just sunk a U-boat (in
the admiral’s presence), when
you’ve vindicated all the training
and knowledge by regulation
you’re supposed to possess, it
takes more than a blizzard blow-
ing from the icy edge of the
world to thaw the warm memory
of your win. So the bridge team
was a happy bunch, and we
could hear the guns’-crews be-
low laughing as they hacked and
slid and heaved the ice from
their guns overboard into the
nearly-as-cold sea. God knows,
most of them had little enough
cause for laughter, and little
enough time to practise it. Being
on the fo’c’sle, they were to take
the lot of what was coming.
DECULIAR thing about naval
* warfare. One moment you
are free of care (if not of icy-
wet oilskins), the next you are
all tensed and straining, striving,
in a spasm of concentrated
energy, to get your blow in first.
This time it was a sub. again. It
seemed too good that we could
rate a repeat performance ; but
it was we who were ordered by
a blinking eye of yellow light
through the mist far out on the
seaward wing of the screen to
investigate at speed a contact-
report. Probably because we
were the last ship in the arrow-
head, though I’m sure, by his
grin, Dad had his own ideas
about our selection.
“Port twenty ! Sound action,
number one, One-eight-oh
revolutions.”
The whine of the blowers rose
to a hungry roar, sucking icy
air deep down into the hot iron
throat of the engine-room. She
rolled as she turned, lifted her
bow high and shocked it down
on a wave as though it were solid.
A lather of spray from the hose
of her bow-wave curved over the
flair, lifted gracefully on the
wind toward the bridge and
drove swift and sharp as needles
into the skin of our faces. It
would be goodnight for a sub.
crew to forsake their hull for
this pitiless sea.
Slowly, asdic-set spearing, we
pitched through the white murk,
I watched Dad swaying behind
his compass, near the wheel-
house voice-pipe, his aquiline
nose thrust forward at the mist
like the bloodhound he was.
Now he was natural —no con-
ceit here; everything subjugated
to the intense need to find, track,
destroy.
For ten minutes, every nerve
of the ship strained, we searched
and probed. Nothing. Dad
moved from the compass and
stamped half a dozen times
across the bridge, swinging his
arms. He stopped once to listen
to the resonant “ping” of the
set, innocent of its betraying
“peep”; then jumped up on the
grating again.
“Full ahead together!”
He swung her in a wide circle,
then eased down again, and we
prowled, listening with all our
ears, over the ghostly white sea.
Nothing. By the time Dad had
satisfied himself the contact-
report was false—school of fish
probably—almost two hours
had passed. It was a h.eavy
responsibility for a captain to
report there was no submarine
danger to a Battle Fleet when
he had been specifically detailed
to find it. So Dad gave her
another half-hour, then set
course to regain station. By
now the fleet would be nearly
fifty miles ahead to the north,
over a sea whipped to advanc-
ing hills of green by a viciously-
cutting wind,
IN a ship that would roll in
1 dry-dock you don’t find men
commenting much on a heavy
sea. But we were a pretty miser-
able team on the bridge, cower-
ing into our oilskins—it’s a long
way to Murmansk. Here Dad
earned his pay and privileges.
While we managed to find
something to do near the fore
windbreak Dad stood beside his
compass, taking it continuously
in his face.
Peter pushed his wetness in
beside me where I was plotting,
in pious hope, our dead-reckon-
ing position on the damp chart.
“No doubt about the old bull-
artist. He loves taking it green
up there. The perfect example
—duty personified. ‘Look at me,
all junior officers—take note.’
By the way, sub —know where
we are?”
I looked sideways at the
wind-red young face. He was
three years younger than I, in
the mess an irrepressible scatter-
brain, in his asdic-cabinet a de-
votee .who forty-eight hours
earlier was directly responsible
for killing perhaps fifty men. I
ignored his fatuous question.
“What are you crying about?
Someone’s going to get a nice
fat mention in a certain report,
and I don’t mean Pilot.”
Peter dropped the pencil he
w as spoiling the chart with and
stared at me.
“Say, sub, what d’you make
of that feller? Sometimes —
when he’s with the bosses—he
turns me up. Proper. Yet in
the mess, with the offal, he’s a
normal sort of poor b .
Wonder what he expects to make
out of it?”
“Dunno. Not another stripe,
that’s certain—not with Dad,
anyway.”
“No, the old boy’s got too
much sense of his own import-
ance. Pilot can have his job for
mine. Dad knows too many
wrinkles of that trade. In my
line, now”
What Peter thought of Dad’s
comparative ignorance of asdic-
lore I never knew. We were
snapped out from the chart-
table by a sudden order.
“Hard-a-port! Get it on, man
—full speed!”
Dad was braced with his hip
against the binnacle, glasses up,
staring over the starb’d bow. He
was looking, through a rift in
the mist-curtain, at two German
destroyers.
T HEY were wide-awake, those
A boys. Before we had
plunged across the gap of visi-
bility into opacity again the
leading boat had winked an
angry yellow eye. The shell
raised a white column four
hundred yards short. By the
time our bow emerged into the
clear again we were ready with
a full broadside loaded. Seconds
for range and procedure orders,
then the ship exploded into
action.
At full speed she was shipping
’em green, acres of water roar-
ing over the fo’c’sle, breaking at
“A” gun and the breakwater
into sheets of spray which swept
the bridge with the effect of a
cloudburst. Binoculars were
useless. I remember thinking:
this is why naval executive
officers cannot wear glasses. Only
matchless training could have
kept “A” and “B” crews load-
ing ; they were almost continu-
ously under a lathering water-
fall. So were the Germans,
which is why for ten minutes
the three ships belted away
without scoring a hit.
From the shadowy enemy
another four brief stabs of
flame split the mist. His face
streaming,‘Dad bellowed “Port
thirty!”
Round she heeled. I hung on
for grim death. Violently she
rolled her scuppers under. The
auxiliary voice-pipe mouthpiece
ripped off in Pilot’s hands; he
slithered, then careered across
the bridge as she lifted one side
up and buried the other. With
full force he cannoned into the
brass chart-table hood. When
he got up his face was grey with
pain and his right arm dangled
uselessly.
Dad saw him as he bent to
give the straightening-up order.
“What’s wrong with you?” he
yelled above the wind.
“Arm —broken, sir.”
“Better get out of here,” Dad
advised. “Sub. Take over!”
Pilot shook his head. He
climbed the grating and swayed
beside the voice-pipe—his action
position, for his was the
responsibility, if Dad shifted
away, of passing his orders
down. I saw the surprise on
Dad’s face, quickly covered.
WE forgot Pilot and his
unexpected guts in a
shout from Number One.
“Hit on the leading ship, sir!”
Before the wind whipped it to
shreds we saw the burst of black
smoke from her forepart; it was
replaced by a growing yellow
fire. Looked like her ready-use
cordite.
Almost at once she altered
course away. The other fol-
lowed, and two white-spawning
sterns entered a rain-squall,
diminishing like a film-fadeout
in the solid curtain of rain.
Dad’s course-alteration to fol-
low them was as natural as his
conceit. He was chasing two
running enemy destroyers, of
course —he was also chasing
headlines. No one dreamed, on
that drenched, swilling, madly-
bucking bridge just what size
our headlines would rate. No
more than they dreamed what
the other side of the rain-squall
we plunged through would re-
veal.
The starb’d bridge lookout’s
shout shocked out.
“Bridge! Enemy in sight!
Cruiser!”
“God!” said Number One
beside me.
We stared in rigid dismay
across the smoking sea ; at the
innumerable platforms, spotting-
tops, bridge and control-towers
prolonging themselves into a
ranged symmetry of metal
narrowing into the sky. Ahead
of this cliff of steel, ugly and
menacing on her fo’c’sle, water-
proof against the waves washing
white from stem to superstruc-
ture, squatted her forrard turrets.
We could not see the guns reach-
ing from them —they were
pointing at us.
“M UMBER ONE!” Dad
* roared, “Get those bloody
guns in action!”
Number One Jumped like a
stung horse, and into action.
Dad fired orders like a cracker.
“Port twenty! Steer three-
five-oh! Pilot! Tell the
engine - room make smoke.”
And, over his shoulder to the
torpedo-officer at the bridge-
rear, “Stand-by all tubes!”
That was our only chance —
torpedoes.
We were already at twenty-
five knots, and in the ridged sea
she could take no more. Our
nose was pointing directly at
the cruiser’s bridge. My eye
caught the flicker of tumbling
numbers on the range-repeat.
Five thousand yards. God, why
W-
"V
"Don't you ever like to let your mind travel into a world of romance, Sammy ?”
hadn’t the German opened?
Five thousand yards! He
couldn’t miss. And then he had
opened, and a storm of high-
explosive burst upon us.
Only the most outstanding im-
pressions remain of the violent
events crowding in on us from
all sides at once. Pilot, the
blood from his burst-open face
clotting on the coldness of his
oilskins and refusing to run
down; Torps bent over his tor-
pedo-sight, his backside sticking
out, so that it was ready to take
his weight when a saucer-sized
chunk of shell smashed in his
chest; Pilot again, crawling,
sycophantic Pilot, limping and
leaping like a crippled stag
across the bridge, taking the
briefest snatch of a sight and,
standing on Torps’s unfeeling
leg, viciously stabbing one tor-
pedo-firing button after another
as we heeled on the turn away;
Dad, untouched, looking up to
heaven in all this holocaust of
shredded brass plating and the
sulphurous stench of burnt ex-
plosive and remarking “Wind’s
right for our smoke”; and,
clearest of all, the wincing, knot-
ting fear in my guts at each
spaced quartet of yellow flashes
from the big ship ahead.
After hours of nakedness, it
seemed, we were back behind
the friendly, greasy opacity of
our smoke. Dad looked at me.
“Sub! Snap out of it! Get
a couple of hands on to clearing
this mess. Stow Torps aft out
of the way. Pilot! Stand-by
with the after-tubes—you’ve got
to do better this time. I’m com-
ing”—
I was looking at him as he
spoke. His mouth was open for
the next word. It stayed open,
his lower jaw hanging foolishly,
his throat gushing blood like a
hand bilge-pump. The shell had
struck the director control-tower
above us. It gaped open as
though a giant axe had cleaved
its armored steel. The starb’d
outer yard, cut through, fell
down and across the siren wires.
The siren cleared its throat in a
splutter of watery steam, then
gave tongue unchecked in a
nerve-jarring screech of sound.
I shall not forget the sight of
Dad as long as I live. We were
out of the smoke, almost on the
belching cruiser. With his left
hand clutched round his throat,
red as though he had hauled it,
dripping, from a tin of red paint,
he bent over the voice-pipe and
ordered “Full ahead together!”
Then he turned to us and spoke
as if he tasted every word.
“Stand-by to ram!”
'“THE ship seemed to shudder
* with rage as she bore in,
bucking, for the looming steel
side ahead. Every few seconds
she took a shell inboard, some-
where, but they rocked her not
much more than the slamming
thud of burying her snout, deep
down to the upper-deck flair, in
the side of each green liquid
hill. Then she lifted on a wave,
flung herself forward, and we’d
hit.
We hit, and the bridge seemed
to slide forward to the bow.
Actually it was the bow crump-
ling like paper and receding back
to us.
It was Pilot who reversed the
engines; his job, with the cap-
tain away from the voice-pipe.
Dad was sprawled on the deck,
rolling in pinkish sea-water. He
was still there, on his bridge,
when his ship, still the target
for everything on the split-sided
German that would bear, wal-
lowed slowly under, shaking her
torn head under the onslaught
of the waves like a punch-drunk
boxer. Her siren was still shriek-
ing its defiance when the sea
throttled it.
WE had been p.-0.-w. in Kiel
a fortnight, discharged
there by our new ship before
she docked for repairs to the
cleavage in her hull (and for
fitting of a bronze plaque on her
quarter-deck in honor of the
man who split her) before we
learned that Dad had at last
won his headlines. Passed over,
in his passing he had also won
a posthumous Y.C.


for her master and mistress, while the
appetising smell of haggis-stew drifted to
my nostrils from an earthenware casserole
on the stove. She wore a neat white dress,
gathered in below the breasts with a red
silk band, and as she alternately stirred
the casserole and shaped the rissoles with
her pretty hands, the twisting and turning
made her whole body quiver seductively.
Much better, but uninspired. Now
Adlington:
I found my dear and sweet love Fotis
mincing of meat and making of pottage for
her master and mistress: the Cupboord
was all set with wines and I thought I
smelled the savor of dainty meats: she had
about her middle a white and clean apron,
and she was girded about her body under
the paps with a swathed of red silke, and
she stirred the pot and turned the meat
with her fair and white hands in such sort
that with stirring and turning the same her
loynes and hips did likewise move and
shake, which was in my mind a comely
sight to see.
Way with literalness!
One more comparison. Adlington
describes an attack on the ass after h
has kicked a man who ill-treated him;
Incontinently came out his wife, who,
seeing her husband halfe dead, cried and
howled in pitiful sort, to the intent that
by her lowd cries she might purchase to
me present destruction. Then all the per-
sons in the town, moved by her noise,
came forth and cried for dogs to tear me
down. Out came § great company of
Bandogs and mastiffes, more fit to pull
dowr bears and lions than me, whom when
I beheld I thought verily I should presently
die.
Thus Graves: •
Shs rushed to Ills rescue, shrieking “Kill
that wicked ass He’s nearly murdered my
husbmd!” Her neighbors at once uh-
ebaued the dogs and set them at me with
‘Sic him, boy, sick him! Tear him to
wts>’ It looked as if my last hour had
come, because there were several of these
dogs, huge massifs of the sort used in
the amphitheatre for baiting bulls and
bears.
Like plums in a pudding one finds in
Adlington some quaint phrases such as
“a rich chuffs” for a churl, “niggish” for
niggardly, “tingles” for claws and so on,
and sometimes a pearl such as “girded
with her beautiful scarfe of love.” In
Graves’s version, what Pepys would call
“roguish” episodes, of which there are
many, am. treated not grossly but more
Tudely, whereas Adlington’s euphemisms
have a charm quite their own. But for
those who, for instance, like the Bible
rendered into colloquial English (and it
may be presumed that such people exist),
u must be admitted that Graves has ac-
complished his task quite admirably, if
somewhat baldly. " Byrne’s offence is
rank, and is deservedly forgotten.
Again to quote Charles Whibley:
The modern translator is commonly
endowed with a complete apprehension of
Latin or Greek, and is lamentably ignorant
of English. Adlington, on the other hand,
was sadly to seek in Latin, but he more
than atoned for his slender knowledge by
admirable treatment of his own language.
Though he abandoned much of the color
and variety of Apuleius he turned the
author into admirable prose. From the
first page to the last you will not find a
trace of foreign idiom. The result is not
so much a fine translation as a noble
original, fitted to endure by its vigorous
diction and excellent rhythm. The manner
is perfectly adapted for narration, and there
are few can handle story with better
delicacy and point. The style has all the
distinction of simplicity. The cadences are
a perpetual pleasure to the ear. There is
a stateliness, a dignity of effect, which
proves that the prose of the Authorised
Version was not an invention but a growth.
The lapse of nearly four centuries has
left his book as fresh and living as its
original, and withal as brave a piece of
narrative as his century can shew.
As is said in the introduction to the
Abbey Classics edition of Adlington’s
version, it is indeed as well-rounded, fine
pleasant a piece of prose as you
set in our tongue, and bears with
a c arm which is as persuasive today
day it first saw light in Wykes’s
shop below the sign of the elephant in
Fleet-street.
E. T. S.
"Wavy Navy"
The Navy is a good subject, as is the
part Reserves played in its War II
activities Wavy Navy (Harrap and
Australasian Publishing Co.), written by
members of it, is a series of sketches,
something like the Canberra War
Memorial’s annual As You Were, of
simply expressed, forcible writing based
on observation and experience.
Reserves, or “Rockies,” did a splendid
job afloat, one which early came to be
recognised by permanent-service hands,
and one which should have settled the
faint tinge of inferiority complex apparent
in these stories. They are, perhaps, a
little too enthusiastic about the traditions
of the Silent Service; they harp a bit
overmuch on what the Reserves thought
permanent men thought of them (when
in reality the said experts were only too
conscious of the fact that Reserves had
held down two jobs well —civil and ser-
vice) ; yet they present well enough, with
pukka-Service restraint, the tense drama
and sudden violence of action at sea.
With their shoreside background, the
authors appreciate the layman’s difficulty
in understanding Service technicalities;
and succeed in making the complexities
of naval gunnery and torpedoing clear to
a land-lubber. The book is at its best
early ; there is a nice bit of tenseness in a
description of a submarine surfacing to
engage what turns out to be a War II
version of a “Q” ship—the disciplined
drama of the control-room at “Enemy in
sight! ” ; the crouched waiting beneath the
conning-tower hatch; and the exploding
into action with its opening.
There is a terrier-like scrap between
British motor-torpedo-boats and heavily-
gunned German coastal defence ships;
the m.t.bs. confined to small-calibre
close-range weapons because someone in
Admiralty considered the enemy ships
not worth the expense of a torpedo ; a
first-class description of a mine-disposal
officer gingerly unscrewing the firing-
mechanism of a magnetic mine in a shat-
tered London house, the strained listening
as he worked for the ticking which meant
he had jerked his patient to life, the
desperate 12-seconds dash to get clear,
and the consequent explosion, so close
that he is beaten into unconsciousness
before the sound reaches him.
These are stories of action, whose
quality is indicated by the fact that some
are reprinted from “Punch” and “Black-
wood’s Magazine.” It’s when the authors
try to characterise, or deal with the sea-
manship and domestic side of their new
environment, that they betray an unpro-
fessional wonderment and enthusiasm
which will make the permanent-service
subject of the adulation squirm.
Collected Whistler.
Laurence Whistler may be remembered
with admiration as one of the few English
poets to “speak for England” during the
war: when so many writers were packing
their bags for America it was reassuring
to find one man resolutely declaring; —
Thus for the Island grace of Liberty,
Much liked by Roman letters in our stone.
The disillusioned shape themselves to die
Gravely, not caring if the flags are flown,
Knowing the future hangs Upon rebirth
Yet now with plain preserving most in
mind:
To save the centuries’ residue of worth —
Children of paradox, who out of dearth
Contrive abundance; laugh and are not
blind.
But it is one thing to catch or create
the spirit of the moment, as Whistler did
so hearteningly in so many of his war
poems, and another to snare out of time
and space the moment that will live fo
ever as poetry. War poems, in war-time
are read in a mood of excitement tha
gives them a quality beyond their intrinsic
merit; afterwards comes the settling-up
when force of vision and purity of tech
nique count more than the temporary
“message.” As we read Wordsworth’
sonnets on Napoleon purely as works of
art, and find them inferior to the “West
minster Bridge” sonnet, so must we reac
Whistler’s “In Time of Suspense” as
work of art: and it stays a good poem
eloquent and smooth, still pleasing in its
spirit, but not, at this date, exciting. It
lacks some final excellence of technique
some final strength of personality, some
final intensity of vision to carry it beyond
its time with its lustre undimmed.
In the opening of this poem the in-
fluence of Yeats is clearly apparent: —
Draw-to the curtains then, and let it rain.
We’ll look no more on that disordered
scene:
Blind rage upon a blinded window-pane.
The shivering white upon the darkening
green.
And throughout Whistler’s Collected
Poems (Heinemann), whenever the verse
is most striking, most clean and pellucid,
it is in the tone and style of the same
master. On page 4: —
I rouse at windy four
From something I said in a dream . . .
On page 46: —
A mother reading by a nursery fire
In whom two thousand years of love draw
breath
Fears that no love or pain can outwit
death.
On page 72: —
So marvellous the alteration
Worked on crooked walls and bare,
Because your mind’s a great magician
Wandering in a maze of hair.
And on page 170: —■
Now I have pondered a long while
And prayed, and know at last
That God is bom in every joy
That into flesh has passed.
Through and around these echoes from
Yeats there speaks Whistler’s own voice:
the book is far from being mere imita-
tion. And Whistler’s voice, which
expresses the love of his country, the
praise of courage, the love of women,
nature and life, is as pleasant a tone as
you could hope to hear in poetry. The
style is always mellifluous. But where
the verse emerges from the influence of
Yeats the edges, so to speak, are blurred.
There is a genuine and likeable talent
here but not an original force.
The book has been decoratively pro-
duced with woodcuts and pen-and-wash
drawings by the author’s brother, Rex
Whistler, who was killed in the war.
Reviewed Briefly,
In War or Peace? (Harrap) John
Foster Dulles, special adviser (Re-
publican) to the Secretary of State
(Democrat) in Washington, discusses the
cold, or lukewarm, war with Russia
without saying anything more from the
extra-American viewpoint than any
spokesman for the Administration has
already said many times. Its importance
in U.S. politics is that Mr. Dulles repre-
sented Republican leaders in making the
bipartisan understanding with the Secre-
tary of State in 1944 and still represents
them (up to the late elections any-
way) in advocating that U.S. foreign
policy should be maintained on an
even keel in the rough waters of
party politics. Bipartisanship “requires
the President to bring responsible
members of the opposition party into the
making of his foreign policies, and it
requires these members to co-operate
loyally to get support in Congress and
in the country for policies that have been
worked out together.” It all reads rather
like the British Dominions’ demand for
a “voice in foreien nolicv.” and annears
to be just about as uncertain whether
a satisfactory answer has been given to it.
r * * *
Probably not very many Australians
read the English quarterly “The Country-
man” regularly, but those who have been
attracted by the Fruitgrower’s Diary
which is one of its features will endorse
what the publishers (Faber) say of
another compilation in book form of
past issues of these notes by their author,
Raymond Bush, covering the four years
1935-38. Rather dim past now, but the
lively observations of a multitude of
details, by no means all connected with
fruitgrowing, do not stale in the casual
reading. Bush’s tirades against football-
pools and the Potato Board are of endur-
ing modernity. One opens at random
to read of “the lady who said fish-manure
had done wonders in her garden, but. she
couldn’t for the life of her think how it
was collected,” or “a kitchen with blue
walls and floor will be free of flies,” or
of the Crusaders’ method of replacing
blood lost through wounds, namely a diet
of water-cress, “which contains much iron
in an easily-assimilated form.” Again,
“a bee-sting is acid and the treatment
for it is ammonia, but a wasp-sting is
alkaline, demanding lemon-juice or
vinegar,”
* * « *
The Art of Ballet: Audrey Williamson
(Paul Elek, Ltd.). Partly based on lectures
which the author has given at the London
City Literary Institute. It covers the
historical background, the foundations of
choreography, music, design, classical
ballet and modern dance-drama.
Illustrated.
* . * * *
Leather and Craftsmanship: John W.
Waterer (Faber). From time to time The
Bulletin’s Service Department is asked
to recommend a textbook for the amateur
worker in leather ; a request difficult to
answer. This book will hardly fill that
bill, though it should interest, in a general
way, anyone devoted to the subject. It
is a survey of leather-craftsmanship in
Britain from early to modern times,
written in the belief that there is still room
for craftsmanship in the modern factory.
The author is a connoisseur of leather as
lesser men are of wine, and in a surprising
chapter on “Leather in Literature” notes
references from Homer, Rabelais, Shak-
speare, Dekker and Uncle Tom’s Cabin.
* * * *
Father Flanagan of Boys’ Town:
Fulton Oursler and Will Oursler (The
World’s Work). A windy and rather too
emotional account of the Irish priest who
developed America’s famous, almost self-
governing, home for boys: as usual with
such treatments, the flood of reverence
and wonderment and interpolations of
amazing achievements with individual
boys obscure the hard facts—it is hard,
for instance, to get any idea of the exact
size and population of the establishment.
Nevertheless, it is a readable book, and
at its conclusion we do feel we have seen
Father Flanagan at work. Illustrations
show the first home, the second (German)
home, some of the boys and Father
Flanagan.
* * * *
The Mudlark : Theodore Bonnet (Angus
and Robertson). This post-war novelty
smash-hit first-novel, which has already
been serialised in Australia, of a London
urchin who strayed into Windsor Castle,
and got caught up into the cogs operat-
ing Queen Victoria, Mr. Disraeli, Mr.
John Brown and a lovelorn officer of the
household, brings the comforting reflec-
tion that a good thing has only to be
written, and it will be acclaimed. By
no means a great novel, it has little wear-
ing-quality, but nor had last Saturday
night’s dinner, and who would have gone
without that?
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 99
Across.
I—Crook but non-dangerous amuse-
ment for bonfire night. (4-7)
6—Drag along the ear. (3)
8 — Equal a bird behind schedule. (7)
10—Border on a member of the brass
backing. (4)
12— The Spanish angle is like a fairy.
(6)
13 — Cut the tax on Chantilly and
suchlike. (8)
16— But it gives no rest for the trig,
student. (3)
17— Conveyance’s kiss. (4)
18— Mark of omission by the dis-
orderly rake janitor. (9)
21—Horse diet is thus raised again. (9)
23—To become limp like an Eliza-
bethan question. (4)
-A Rhode Island town in north-
east Indiana. (3)
—Although first-aid equipment is
required, the orchestra grows
long in the tooth. (8)
9 Pea in an Indian city place for
an ancient oracle. (6)
o—Obtained. (3)
i2—This is noble to stare intently at
anything. (4)
33 — Bill arrives before one in the
morning. (7)
34 — Street of regret. (3)
35 — Anxieties come one at a time in
a fondling manner. (11)
Down.
1— Demonstrated when Miss became
Mrs. (6)
2 Boundary turning red when
cheating. (4-8)
3 One affirmative or many. (4)
4 Bear one in the middle of the
nut. (5)
5 Heel we let tour (anagram). (8, 5)
7 —This science allows George and
me to get the football score. (8)
9—Slay the beast like all wrong-
doing swallowed. (11)
11 —Violently congratulating foot-
ballers drinking like cats. (12)
14 — Calabria is this part of the Italian
boot. (3)
15 — Tax whoever is born north of
Hadrian’s wall. (4)
19— Pole on the East worked as a
jockey. (4)
20 — Much more irascible slab for a
dead crustacean. (8)
22—The end of De Valera. (3)
25 —Insist that Diana is somebody else
in stunned disappointment. (6)
27 — Idiot drug. (4)
28 — Do wrong or the wrongdoing. (5)
31 —Inspires dread with one to sew
up. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 98.


xixw : #x
v ... mP
*#•
a
Wmi
:
iliiii i|i
m
.'■ ; M v;
i ®f "
■■■■l
y n| :• a; Qj I• S;■■;■ S RSgM| gSiiMgiSisilifeilgii^ g
9HHh iSra iSi»l ?;
11l Mi
liy&W 3S .....1 .'...' .<,.. m&MsmmSm
1111
MS
I
<|ive HIM
p(easii/ie in % feisu/ie
Stamina Trousers are tailored by expert rafts-
men to give that extra comfort every mao is
entitled to —your gift will give him that cc toii
The pure wool content of Crusader Clotl in a
which all Stamina Trousers are made, ha ■ ?
special elastic quality that is wear-res-.
This extraordinary power is a feature th
enables Stamina to keep fresh and strong f
years your gift will be lasting.
There are twelve very attractive shades >
choose from—new fawns, beach tans, powd<
blues, silver, sea-greens and rock brown
Your gift will be sure to please.
And the price while stocks last
ONLY
Ask for
S^^SUPPORJJMG
trouser:
MAKE YOUR XMAS GIFT A PAIR OF STAMINA TROUSERa
