

The Bulletin
llThe Bulletin,” Vol. 71—No. 3669
Wednesday, June 7, 1950
Price 9d.
Kegi-steied at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, tor Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
The Bulletin
REGAL DIGNITY FITTINGLY DISTINGUISHES HAMPTON COURT
"COR over two hundred years Hampton Court Palace provided the sovereigns
of England with their most beautiful country residence. This magnificent
red-brick building, in which there are over a thousand rooms, covers eight
acres of ground and stands amidst its spacious lawns and gardens beside the
River Thames on the outskirts of London, near Kingston.
It was built in 1514 by Cardinal Wolsey, the son of a butcher, who
rose to great power and wealth in the reign of Henry VIII (1509-1547). Here
he lived for a brief period in extravagant state until his lavish way of living
and his sumptuous hospitality drew the attention of his sovereign, who cast
a covetous eye on the property. In 1521 Wolsey fell from power and gave
Hampton Court Palace, probably under duress, to Henry VIII, and from
then on it was used as a Royal residence by the Tudors, the Stuarts and the
Hanoverians.
Under succeeding reigns improvements and additions were made to the
buildings; the most notable contribution being the Wren facade in the reign
of William HI (1694-1702).
Hampton Court's chief historical associations, however, belong to the
reign of Henry VIII. Before he had divorced Katharine he had already started
to add a suite of rooms to the Palace for Anne Boleyn. Before they were
completed, Anne had become Queen and had been beheaded. Her successor
at Hampton Court was Jane Seymour, whose son, Edward VI, was born there.
His nurse was a Mrs. Sibell Penn, whose ghost is said to haunt the Palace iu
company vTitb those of Jane Seymour and Katharine Howard, Henry VIIFs
fifth wife, whose piercing shrieks,, tradition asserts, are heard in the Haunted
Gallery. ,
It was from Hampton Court that Charles I escaped after being imprisoned
by the Parliamentarians. The beautiful gardens and the State Apartments
of the Palace, which house an important art collection, are open to the public.
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT


d
i 15223
at Honre
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne,
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send , without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 250 AGE
The Red Page
BIRDS OF PARADISE.
The first European to describe New
Guinea’s birds of paradise was, so Mr.
Tom Iredale records in a beautiful book
published by Georgian House,
Maximilianus Transylvanus, one of the
survivors of Magellan’s tragic voyage
round the world in 1521. But the best-
known report came from Magellan s
chronicler, Antonio Pigatetti; and the
good Antonio, who might have been
wiser than our modern scientists, thought
that the birds came literally from
Paradise. At Tidore in the Moluccas the
King of Bachian, he said:
also gave us for the King of Spain two
most beautiful dead birds. These birds are
as large as thrushes, they have small heads,
long beaks, legs slender like a writing pen,
and a span (palm) in length; they have no
wings, but instead of them long feathers of
different colors, like plumes; their tail is
like that of the thrush. All the feathers
except those of the wings are of a dark
color; they never fly, except when the
wind blows. They told us that these birds
come from the terrestrial Paradise, and they
call them bolon dinata, that is, divine birds.
Some of Pigafetti’s beliefs cannot, alas,
be reconciled with cold fact. The bird of
paradise is not limited to flying, like a
schoolboy’s kite, only when the wind
blows. It is not without wings. What
deceived so many of the early chroniclers
was, Mr. Iredale points out, the simple
fact that they were shown only the skins
of the birds, from which wings and feet
were missing ; so that John Huyghen van
Linschoten, who made a voyage to the
East Indies, concluded, “these birds flie
alwaies into the Sunne, and keep them-
selves continually in the ayre, without
lighting on the earth, for they have
neither feet nor wings, but onely head and
body, and the most part tayle,” while a
popular naturalist referred —somewhat
scornfully—to the legends that the birds
remained “perpetually floating in the air,
while' sleeping as well while awake,
while hatching and laying as well as
while procreating their young.” The
ingenious Chinese further complicated
the matter, for the purposes of trade with
the credulous, by changing the feathers
about and making up skins never seen
before or since.
And, of course, though it remains a
country of the unexpected and the im-
probable, New Guinea has been too well
trodden of late for us really to believe
that it is the terrestrial Paradise. At any
rate it is not quite what we expected of
Paradise.
Yet looking at the superb colored-
plates with which Lilian Medland (Mrs.
Ireland) has decorated the book —looking
at the wide-spreading headdress of brown
and glistening green on the Superb Bird
of Paradise ; at the plumes of the Long-
Tailed Bird of Paradise hanging like a
streamer from some unheard-of blue
weeping-willow ; at the fern-fronds of the
Red Bird of Paradise with his yellow head
rimmed with green; at the Blue Bird of
Paradise which, in this book, hangs up-
side-down with sapphire and pale-yellow
feathers falling to earth like spray from
a fountain ; at the startling design of the
Red Sickle Bill, more like a bird invented
for a sorcerer’s ceremonial-robe than
anything seen in nature ; at the flying
yellow fire of the Fly River Bird of
Paradise and the Lonely Little King’s,
concentrated crimson and green, set off
with a long slim tail curled at the end like
a grassblade—one cannot help feeling
that Pigafetti was nearer the truth than
we shall ever come while we are forced
to describe these miracles as “the acme
of uselessness in ornamentation.”
Mr. Ireland himself, though he uses this
dreadful phrase, seems to feel that he is
dealing in Birds of Paradise and Bower
Birds with something more than “a
vertebrate animal covered with feathers
and capable of flight.” He says that
“generally speaking feather structure is
strictly utilitarian, but having achieved
that purpose continuance of evolution
has been on aesthetic lines,” and he is not
over-eager to believe that the male bird
of paradise grew his gorgeous feathers
merely to get himself a wife . . . a pro-
position which would involve us, in any
case, in crediting the female bird of
paradise with an aesthetic sensibility
equal to, say, Walter Pater’s. For if it
was she who insisted, down the long
centuries, on the development of these
fiery and exquisite feathers . . .
In one place Mr. Ireland says that “the
male has developed brighter coloration of
no use save as a sexual attraction,” but he
adds the saving clause, “that is, judging
by our standards” ; and a little later he
points out that “the males appear to
understand that they are beautiful and
amuse themselves as well as any
spectators by displaying their plumes”—
which means, presumably, that he credits
them with aesthetic sensibility as well as
mere male complacence. And, when he
comes to the spotted bower-bird, he
openly challenges the theory that the be-
havior of these extraordinary birds is
conditioned wholly by sex: —
Psychoanalysis of the .ornamental urge
of the Satin Bird has produced a conclu-
sion that its preference for green and blue
is due to the feminine coloration, being
green with blue eyes. It will be amusing
to read a similar report upon this [spotted]
bird’s preferences, as at first sight none of
the objects can be easily traced to the
female coloration, and there is also a
tendency to red in the bird’s coloration
which it does not use, perhaps antipathy
would be the better word, even as white
seems repugnant to the Satin Bird,
As will also be seen from this quota-
tion Mr. Ireland’s prose style, alas, too
closely resembles the trackless jungles of
New Guinea where his birds of paradise
fly. Something should have been done
about it. Something drastic. It is
altogether too amateurish. Mr. Ireland is
even capable of using three exclamation-
marks at the end of a sentence, and, faced
with this barbarous barrage of punctua-
tion, one is almost tempted to use three
exclamation-marks oneself. Perhaps,
since it is authoritative and in-
formative, the bird-men for whom
Birds of Paradise is chiefly intended will
not care very much how it is written ; but
the ordinary reader of nature-books and
the ordinary buyer-of art-books may also
be tempted by the volume, and Mr.
Ireland’s style may grieve them. Besides,
even bird-experts, like the male birds of
paradise, should surely try to evolve “on
aesthetic lines.”
However, if Mr. Ireland sometimes gets
bushed in his jungle of words, he is
always a pleasant companion who loves
his birds and appears to know everything
that can be known about them. Though
the text is enlivened by anecdotes from
the journals of ancient and recent
travellers in New Guinea the book is not
a nature-book in the ordinary sense of a
description of wild life at first-hand but
is chiefly an encyclopaedia, setting down,
all that is known on its subject. The
publishers say that no work dealing with
these birds Las appeared for more than
half a century and that this book will be
the standard reference for many years.
The illustrations—33 full-page plates in
color, figuring every bird—are really
magnificent and the binding and printing
admirable. The price is quoted at five
guineas net.
Georgian House has published the
book in conjunction with the Australiana
Society, which proposes to bring out,
within the next five or six years, a set of
facsimile reproductions of important Aus-
tralian historical works, such as A
Voyage to Terra Australis by Matthew
Flinders, Captain Cook’s First Voyage,
four of the Bligh documents in one
volume, etc. A start will be made this
year with The Voyage of Governor
Phillip to Botany Bay. The editions will
be limited to 1000 copies.
Back fo Taws .
The most noticeable thing in Herbert
Read’s little book, Phases of English
Poetry (Faber), is his fine taste ; his prose
argumentation holds together a rare
selection of poetry from early English on-
wards, and of a movement and simplicity
very far his own practice. Indeed,
anyone might talk utter balderdash and
go free who could introduce us to such
things as the song by Dowland: —
Flow not so fast, ye fountains;
What needeth all this haste?
Swell not above your mountains
Nor spend your time in waste.
Gentle springs, freshly your salt tears
Must still fall dropping from their spheres.
The book was first put out in 1928 ;
and this revised edition has two new
essays, on “Poetry and Love” and “Poetry
and Sentiment” (the others consider
poetry and humanism, religion, nature,
and pure poetry and modern poetry). In
the essay on poetry and love, Mr. Read
considers that the reason why, “between
1605 and 1610, the innocence, the gaiety,
the fantasy and artifice, went out of
English love poetry” was either the plague
of 1603, or that “a frenzy had run its
course ; a phase of eroticism had given
place to a phase of rueful meditation’
and this ushered in metaphysical and in-
direct references to this interesting subject
until Browning got back to taws: —
I liked the way you had with y<?ur curls
Wound to a ball in a net behind:
Your cheek was chaste as a Quaker-girl’s,
And your mouth —there was never, to my
mind
Such a funny mouth, for it would not
shut
In the essay on poetry and
sentiment, Mr. Read compares Johnson
with Daniel, finds Daniel “pure” —
that is, free from the “affecta-
tions of a period,” and regrets that the
same cannot be said of Johnson’s “Vanity
of Human Wishes.” He( finds these
affectations still more strongly in Pope,
and goes on to suggest that “a pastoral
convention and a ruminative mind” that
triumphed in the verse of Cowper, Thomp-
son and Young was prolonged, early
and late, by Wordsworth and then by his
disciple Arnold.... .crossed the Atlantic and
became the staple of American verse —
Emerson, Longfellow, Whittier and Bryant.
Keats and Tennyson were deflected from
the natural course of their talent by a
desire to appear preternaturally profound.
These are worthwhile ideas for the
times ; and they help to the book’s con-
clusion where Mr. Read asks, “How can
[the poet] expect to resume the original
role of the poet ?”
Not, at any rate, in the obvious way.
The poet who nowadays aspires to write
for the masses will find himself in the
falsest of positions. Coppee or Jammes in
France, Whitman and Sandburg in America,
Edward Carpenter and Rudyard Kipling in
England—these are our would-be popular
poets. But how much does the populace
care for them? Their poems sell well
but the market is middle-class or
bourgeois—students, teachers and all the
half-educated and palpitating devourers of
tendentious literature. The real populace—
the populace that sings. “Tipperary” or
“Keep the Horae Fires Burning” or “Roll
Out the Barrel” —ignores its self-appointed
bards.
The only literature that is at the same
time vital and popular is the literature of
the music-hall... .Inwardly I feel that.,.,
the art of poetry is the difficult art of
defining the nature of mind and emotion
But this is my personal attitude; more
dispassionately I recognise that poetry can
never again become a popular art until this
research is abandoned and the poet gives
himself wholly to “the cadence of con-
senting feet.”
>91 Cyclist .
Anyone picking up Ernie Old’s auto-
biography, By Bread Alone (Georgian
House), expecting no more than the
reminiscences of a bicyclist who did trips
from Melbourne to Sydney, Adelaide,
Brisbane, Darwin and Perth in his
seventies, is due for a pleasant surprise.
From Mr. Old’s prose arises the aroma
of kindlier days, or kindlier hearts —it is
hard to say which ; and with its gentle-
ness it is also precise, as in his descrip-
tion of reaping on his father’s farm at
Dingee, 30 miles north of Bendigo: —
I remember the delighted interest we
boys took in the first reaping-machines
which came along. Up to this time we
had only seen small patches of grain cut
with scythe or sickle. Now we trooped
happily after the two-horse team in the
clattering reaper with its crew of two men.
One drove the horses, while the other sat
in a springless iron seat at the end of the
cutter-bar. He had a heavy rake, with
which he had to keep pressing the cut
grain back on the tin-sheathed sheaf-board.
When he had enough there to make a sheaf
he tilted, the board with a lever attached
to his foot, sliding the pack of cut grain
off with his rake; This was a nice, interest-
ing job', I don’t think! The poor sheaf-
board man had to bump along all day in
his hot iron seat, keeping his heavy rake
in constant motion so that the cut grain
fell on the board
Luckily for me these old machines were
outdated by the time I was old enough
for harvest work. At intervals around the
paddock being cut were stationed binders,
whose duty it was to take a handful of
straw from each pack left on the ground,
divide his band into two parts, expertly
knot them together so as to form a band
long enough to go round his sheaf. Next
he held his band by the centre knot, spread
his arms wide and gathered the slab of
cut grain into a bundle around which he
skilfully passed and fastened his band. The
bound sheaf was then added to his stock,
which was a cluster of a dozen or so
sheaves leaning inwards around a centre
one. The reason for this being that the
grain dried out better thus, and was con-
venient for carting in later....
Sheaves and stocks have long been the
debased currency of poor verse and hack-
neyed prose; yet to how many writers
and poets who have used them will Mr.
Old’s masterly sentences come with a
shock of edification —and as a lesson!
Perhaps his talent for precise detail comes
from his being an inventor. At Gallipoli
too many men were being blinded by
glass when bullets struck their periscopes ;
so Corporal Old
made a strong tin guard to fit neatly
over the lower end of the periscope....!
tried a slit half-an-inch wide in my tin
shield first, but this left too large an
opening for fragments to come through.
Next, I tried a small round hole in the
centre of the shield. This showed all the
lower mirror with the view reflected from
the top mirror. Next I made the peep-slot
five-eighth’s of an inrh u .
m the centre of the shieki by Th half an inch
of1h? ly , ° lear Section wi I hl Lfave me 5
the glass getting through ttle c han Ce
i lie next thins wqc t
scope to the front trenches an V h , e peti -
Old eye to it until some Turt glue the
o hit it. Finally Corporal OH “““W
to camp with the ba terc l „ re|ur *'J
cupful of shattered glass hph P^ SCo P e , a
and undamaged eyes § Tlie i' tS shicJ d
all periscopes to be fitted wi h tt ° r ? ered
and hardly a day oassed shleld >
least one man coming* along to h ° Ut at
out to thank me personally ° fo ? y du §-
his eyesight. y * 0r saving
Again at Gallipoli, when rifl*
oL re bi rJ ing men ’ s shouW e ;f e, i ades
Old worked out a design for a 5 5 rnie
the rifles which could be made 0 ? f ° r
packing-cases and other waste ,?V rora
and these were Just going J
tion when evacuation * Zl Stag"**
Invention still stood him in
after the war, when improved ? Stead
tural machinery and the cominn !P cu1 '
sion brought bis blacksmith’?busi? PreS *
Dm gee to a halt. He invented a 688 at
ment which would stop the 1 from at l ach '
of his car wobbling, and as th M n wdeeIs
because of “a severe steering deK? led
was quite common in io? n
or thereabouts,” he was able to sell b e
attachment to many other ear n! h
until the beginning of World wlr fi
But while we admire his precision
must find Mr. Old a little^Sn’t™
news-sense as news-sense is undmL,
today. He gives mile-by-mile desert
tions of many of his early races J. P u
included several Warrnambool-MeibouTO
auTxcepn- ° M *“ giVK “ ”
Shortly after this I was involved in a
race crash wherein I sustained a skull-
fracture and a broken collarbone T Z
unconscious from Saturday afternoon till
the following Wednesday
Whatever excitement and drama led to
this conclusion is lost to us. And in the
same way he gives an excellent picture of
his 'raining and embarkation for the
Boer War, at which he arrived too late ■
and of his sojourn at Gallipoli; but then
he takes us to France, and after two
pages leaves us there: —
I would like to include the full story
of my experiences , in trench-warfare in
France and Belgium, but fear it would
make the book too long I was severely
wounded on November 14, 1916, at Flers,
was evacuated to England, where I spent
five months in the hospital at Plymouth....
Ft !’ drama we have to make do with
the story of how he broke his foot in the
ordnance factory at Maribyrnong, where,
aged 68, he took a job as blacksmith as
his contribution to World War II: —
I was given a job heating up short ends
of live- to eight-inch shell-steel bars. These
weighed from ten to 281b. each. They
were heated up to a bright heat in an oil-
furnace, my job being to place them in
the furnace and watch for the proper heat,
then draw them out and roll or throw them
over ro a power-hammer, running at 136
strokes per minute. My strikers drove the
hammer, while my light, pleasant duty was
ro hold these heavy blocks of hot steel
under the hammer, turning them rapidly
this side and that while drawing them out
into 2in. x lin
Another part of his job was putting
die under a 1500-ton steam press; and
one clay the top part of a die, released
from the 1500-ton pressure, sprang up
and dropped, 201b. weight, on his instep
—after which they found him some work
in the woodshop.
Tbs captious might find Mr. Olds
poetry of not quite the same level as ms
P 1 know that Beatrice dear will sweetly snub
u,- this small token of my changeless
I know°that guardian angels all the whde
Will watch o’er her from starnng
realms above
And the author himself considers i
little ineffectual:— mpntione d
I sent . this to * e p ab f!£?;Kdy
Beatrice with such good eff years
married another gentleman some y
later. , The
But he improved as he went oil
poem beginning What s Da i s y’s
Daisy’s card” ‘ did not g jn a
heart, but it did win a doll J at
poetry competition open p t itled
a local bazaar”; and the poem d . d
“When Marion Smiles r y - ously
trick when “a certain Marion, {ake
mentioned, decided to , we dding”:"
leading parts in a doub shades,
When soft cheeks burn |Y' th de J blades;
When bright eyes flash
I fear me much there is a
When Marion frowns..-- these
Besides, we must rernembeM
poems were the P rodu ved his gr eateS
youth: Mr. Old has r j a
triumphs for his old ag > va l his m atur
ing poetic power may yet nva
efflorescence as a cy c l ist . was a fine
For although Ernie Old to
cyclist in his youth, b css d un til, from *
h-ive achieved greatness UUL
(Continued on inside back cove )


"TRUTH
IN ADVERTISING"
Anthony Horderns
j
Less than four minutes’ walk from Town Hall Station
“Packard” designed this
stylish Brogue with extra
stout soles, wide welts and
sewn heel seats for comfort
and hard wear. In Tan or
Black Box Calf or Suede.
Priced at 66/6. Also with
rubber soles and heels for
golfers and hikers, at 66/6,
or Scotch zebu, price 91 /-.
Sizes 5 to 14, fittings B to F.
H
> : ■ . • ':■
■
ift>>
»s
mm
sskkssk
,w
&
"/A
y
WmMmm.
m
■-:>■ •• •'•'■'
m
m
C’/':
ys
*
™Sr
miim
WJWWWWWWS
mm
l mm
: :■■■•--:••
WMM«N4
>x-;<
Packard presents for town or country wear
Smart things a-foot . . . .
mm
■ ass
Moggar Casuals with roomy
toes sn ug fitting heels. Rich London
Tan Calf uppers and flexible leather
soles and heels in sizes 5 to 12. 49/9.
no cap Derby shoe for that
e xtra comfort, in Tan Calf or Black Box
Calf . 55/6; or Black Glace Kid, at 60/-.
Available in multiple sizes 5 to 12.
“Packard” Moccasin with smart wall toes and
Derby fronts in Tan Calf with non-slip
rubber or leather soles or in Black Calf with leather soles.
Multiple fittings in sizes 5 to 12. Priced at 61 f 6 pair.
“Packard” Oxford with neat punched caps on
a comfortable swing last in Tan Calf or Black
Box Calf, 55/6; or Black Glace Kid, 60/-.
Available in multiple fittings sizes 5 to 12.
A NTHONY HORDERNS’ MEN’S SHOE DEPT.—GROUND FLOOR, GEORGE ST. M 2401; BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


I •»/•#»
The
Continues progress in Us Second Century
Chairman’s Address
Onjune i, at the Head Office, Sir Frederick ft.
Tout, Deputy-chairman of sDirectors ,•< addressed the
AM.P.’s 101st Annual Meeting, His speech included
these points.: '
The year 1949 marked an Important milestone in
the * history *of the A.M.P. 1 Society. Tho,* Society
completed one hundred years ? of service to policy*
holders and the community generally, andi this im*
portant occasion was marked fay appropriate ■ funcs
tions at all Branches. It is particularly gratifying
to report that in its centenary year the Society broke
all existing records for new production,
and new policies assuring over- £69 million,: were
issued. • This reflects not only the efficiency of the
Society's organisation, but also the esteem in which
the Society’s name
continues
be
to
held by the pub*
lie generally
Copies, of the Directors* Report and Balance Sheet,
and the Actuary** Investigation Report have been
>ta‘all;, present and are available to any
other members interested. They provide a.detailed
record of a year of continued progress.
1 do not propose to make any lengthy comment
upon the f figures in the Annual Report,' but it is
interesting, to' note the remarkable expansion which
has laken placo in the last decade. Since 1939
premium 11 revenue has doubled from £lO million per
annOm to £2O million per annum. Sums assured in
force Hove increased from £309 to £586
Funds held'-and invested on behalf of members,
which in December, 1939 were £l2O million, have
risen t0.[£202 million. It is pleasing to report that
the number*, of policies in force in the Ordinary
Department notf exceed 1,000,000.
Economic expansion requires the accumulation of
vast savings. Life Assurance fir apStticularly nocnlsw
avenue for saving.. Not only does it encourage thrif*
but it also provides financial protection in the even?
of death. When the individual plans the disposition
?! , hl9 J r nc ? me ’ of life, assurance rank 1
high. We know that this is so because of the teeaJ
lanty with which the premiums paid fh«
Government has appealed to everyone to save and
keep saving as a counter to the inflationary trend
resulting from the present high level of incomes and
shortages of materials. Our record new- business
results of recent years are, therefore, particularly
gratifying. In part they arise from increased; savin*
because incomes are buoyant, and individuals reco*
nise the wisdom of making provision; against
fortunate times. In part they represent a realisation
by policyholders that higher costs of living require
a greater of. life assurance protection than
jvould have been considered necessary in other daysi
PROGRESS OF THE SOCIETY
SUMS ASSURED
CXCLCDtNO
ftOHUtU
PREMIUM
REVENUE
INVESTMENTS
£118.000.000
£301.000.000
£203,000.000
£120.000.000
£20,000.000
£10.000.000
1935, 1949
1939 1349
19391949
u
r 2
CLAIM
PAYMENTS
Primarily the Society
exists to meet claims
under its policies and
during 1949. payments In
respect of matured policies
and death claims amounted to
over £9J million. , The lot of.
widows and retired persons is
particularly arduous at the pre-
sent time and the various social
service benefits which are-available
provide no more than a minimum level
of subsistence. This burden is eased, however,
where the proceeds of voluntary self-help by way
of life assurance are available to supplement
.these benefits.
THE SOCIETY’S INCOME
:The Society’s annual Income Is to-day of the
.order of £27 million, comprising Investment Income
of about £7 million and premium income of £2O
million. Members will be Interested to know to
what uses these vast sums are being put.
fd
f
INDUSTRIAL
7 DEPARTMENT
The Industrial Depart*
■tnent continues to pro*;
<vlde life assurance In
Relatively small sums
assured for-wage-carners
end others, and the
collection at home of monthly or weekly premiums.
The wide demand for this service Is indicated by
the fact that there are now more than one and a
third million policies in force..
STAFF
The expansion of the Society has
been made possible only by the co-
operation of the Socierfs staff, both
indoor and outdoor, . and I desire to
express the Board's appreciation. It
is the Board’s policy to give financial
encouragement to employees who pass
approved examinations. This has been
well justified 'by the important
administrative and technical positions
which we have filled with men from
the Societys own staff.
ALTERATION TO BY-LAWS
At the last .Annual, Meeting several members
voiced objection! to the expense of elections which
had been necessary under the By-laws since 1934,
and amendments. . The recommends*
lions , were examined by the Board, and araenda
ments*; were-.submitted to members at a Special
Meeting on Oth February, 1950. Notice of the
| meeting and of the amendments were
' given tr wide The amendment* “ were
adopted and subsequently • confirmed at a Special
Meeting held.-Ott-.the 24th February, 1950.
RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
d
At our Centenary
Annual Meeting last
year, I referred to the
progress made with the
mechanisation of some
oftho Society’s accounting
work. In a different sphere,
__ ' the medical selection of risks,
every care Is helftg taken to keep the Society
abreast' of all advances. Recently, Dr," S. A,
Smith, Society’s Principal Board, and Dr,?
I. H. Halliday, the Society’s Chief Medical Officer,,
visited Britain and the U.S~A,, and Investigated
tbo latest methods of medical underwriting.
The Society’s Investments
The Society, as a result of Its extended investment policy,
has now presided, finance of about £l2 million to Industrial
undertakings by way of debentures, preference and ordinary
shares'. - In addition, has, advanced large sums bj
way of'mortgages secured or* real property and other assets.
Investments of this kind bring the promise of a higher Interest
return, but they also KhWtt added responsibilities. They require
careful selection and, supervision In order to preserve the high
.level of security for which we strive. As a life office we have
no connection with the physical production processes, but 1#
by supplying'capital we facilitate the development of worthwhile Industries, then we
secured good Investments and made a contribution to Industrial progress
J I I I II:-
COONALP
O WNS
Tlie changing' of' Coonal*
pyn Downs desert Into rich
agricultural ■ land Is 1 a fas-
cinating -story, - and*, It Is
toeing brought about entirely
by the Society's Initiative.
Recently,.. details 'were pub-
lished •of f the Society’s
scheme Tor land-development In- South Aus*
tralia. The plans which are in band for the
clearance t and * settlement. *of what • waa*
formerly the > “Ninety . Mile - Desert I '*, now
“Coonalpyn Downs",-|have ( -fcreated great
public Interest. There are majiy difficulties
ahead of us and work ta called
for. When the task Is finished, however. I
am sure members will take satisfaction from
fd
the Investment, and from
the knowledge that a barren
waste has become a worth-
while settlement fore settlers
on their own farms.!
We * are giving ’ special
attention to the training of
qualified officers In rural
problems. Sillied men are required not pnly
for our South;Australian project but also to
supervise > our mortgage Investments In
country areas. Australia's population is
growing. and the world's food, and clothing
shortages are far from satisfied. Primary
industries • constitute . a vital part of our
economy; •" and they» will continue to bo
supported by the Society.
INTEREST RATES
■For * many I yen** tte Society’s invest-
ments.' with the exception of real pro-
perty held for nse ns officer premises,
were ’practically confined to securities
Issued by government and seml-govcrn-
mentnl bodies, and to charges by way of
mortgage over real • property; Existing
Issues of government loans are maturing
from time to time, nnd conversion is being
effected at rates of interest much lower
than those borne by the original securi-
ties. The high level of farm incomes has
meant the repayment of many mortgages.
Thus, the Society fa not only faced with
the problem of Investing new funds at a
time when Interest rates are low, bat It'
also has to reinvest the proceeds of loans
which have been repaid. Although the
Board has widened the scope of its in-*
vestments in recent years, the benefits
accruing from this' step are not yet
sufficiently large to. prevent a fall in the
average rate of interest. The effective
rate of Interest earned on the assurance
and annuity funds has consequently
declined from £3.18.4 in 1048 to 1347. UK
MANAGEMENT
EXPENSE RATE
REDUCED
despite rising costs
Current running; expenses are the fln<
charse on the Society’*- Income. They
include general administrative costs, com-
mission and taxes. Expenses ot manage
ment were higher In IDAS, partly because
of the expansion of business, sad partly
because of the general rise In the price ot'
goods and services. However, if is satis-
factory -to know that the ratio'ot ex-
penses to premium revenue for the
Society as a whole was again reduced.
Surplus and Bonuses
Daring n year’s operations there arises
a surplus of Income over the outgo al-
ready mentioned. This accrues as on,
addition to the Society’s Funds whljch are
held to meet the long term liability under
Its policy contracts. $ When the Society
has met or made provision for its liabili-
ties to external creditors! the-. Actuary
determines what portion 'of it* fo"* 11
must be retained to meet the Society’s
future liability to Its policyholder*. Any
surplus of funds Is then used to provide
reversionary bonus additions to existing
policies. ' The surplus available this year
|s sufficient to enable a bonus to be paid
«t the same rale a* last Tenr, after pro-
viding : : an - nddl-
tlon o t £250,000
to the Investment
'and : Contingen-
cies Reserve. As
the Society's bon-
uses are calcu-
lated on a. com-
pound basis, this
means that most
fd
f
d
policyholders' will .nig
receive a greater boons for fbe '■ *
than that allotted for the year 1948. “
* Wish to sound a note of warn ng.
the Board’s constant endeavour tJ|
Investments 'and control « pe “ se * t
the object of maintaining b00n..»
high a level as Po»» * oper .tla*
time, however,, factors are v
which add to the difficulties fe(W
Ing the present rate .of " „f
factors are the decline
Interest which our funds nowyl
the concurrent rise In *W* n
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
READ OFFICE:
fd
PROVIDENT SOCIETY
87 PIJT STREET, STDREt
f


The Bulletin
Vol. 71 —No. 3669
Wednesday, June 7, 1950
“NEARER, CLEARER, DEADLIER. .. .”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, BU5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.O.), Wellington.
HOT-AIR ARTIST.
In the lopsided development of this
continent the most obvious feature is
the importance in the Commonwealth
sphere of political decisions made in
New South Wales.' Difficulties arising
from conflict between Federal and State
politics and administration are predomin-
antly those between the regime in Can-
berra and that in Sydney, for the obvious
reasons that in N.S.W. are located nearly
half the Australian population and the
principal working resources of secondary
industry.
For nearly all the past decade the
Socialist party has governed in both the
Commonwealth and New South Wales.
Nominally this party has held power
from and owed responsibility for its use
of it to the electorate. Actually its every
move that mattered has been directed
from a junta outside Parliament —a junta
without which it has dared do nothing,
and with the approval of which on
critical occasions its Governments treated
with disdain the electors’ protests. The
outstanding features of this decade —
making all allowances for the strain on
the economic fabric imposed by the war
—has been the reckless encouragement of
inflationary tendencies with the initiation
of the revolutionary Socialist objective,
and the spread of industrial disorder and
sabotage through the activities of
“Labor’s” Communist allies. In short
form, political strikes in the unions and
high cost of living.
The overthrow of the McGirr Govern-
ment in N.S.W. is second in importance
only to that of the Chifley Government
at Canberra for the restoration of the
political and economic health of the
nation. The Federal elections last
December showed plainly that N.S.W.
is the last stronghold of the discredited
Socialist schemers. If N.S.W. had then
voted the Socialists down as emphatically
as did the other five States, “Labor”
today would be a mere rabble at Can-
berra. Such hopes as “Labor” has of
obstructing the Menzies Government and
flouting the popular verdict of last
December depend entirely on the McGirr
party’s keeping its Red Objective hoisted
at the masthead in the chief industrial
State. Mr. McGirr is fighting ostensibly
for the continuance of the most inept
and futile Ministry ever visited upon New
South Wales, but actually to render null
and void so far as possible the will of
the Australian people at the national
polls.
Just how much Mr. McGirr is his own
master in this as in every other political
matter was exhibited recently when he
pleaded abjectly before the Trades Hall
junta to be allowed to control his own
party, and finally announced his resigna-
tion as Premier. Even while caucus was
affecting an emotion of sympathy with
him it was throwing itself eagerly into
the business of canvassing his successor.
The A.L.P. executive also regarded it as
a promise rather than a threat, and was
correspondingly disappointed. If, having
survived that mooted purge, Mr. McGirr
is returned to power at the coming elec-
tions, he would be nothing more than
the puppet of the directors of “the class-
war.” They would expect from him
active support in thwarting the Com-
monwealth Government’s programme as
endorsed by a wider electorate. This con-
flict would effectually prevent any recon-
ciliation in industry, or the increased
output of coal, or any attempt of the
Menzies Government to check —let alone
reverse—the shrinking process at work
on the pound-note.
So far as N.S.W. electors contributed
to the Liberal-Country majority in the
Commonwealth Parliament they will be
bound, if they have any sense of their
responsibility, to vote the same parties
into office in the State. A vote for
McGirr would be a retraction of the anti-
communist vote of last December, and
would virtually offer an asylum in N.S.W.
for the agents of the Soviet and the
wreckers of Australian industry which
the Commonwealth Government was
commissioned to root out from Govern-
ment employment and trade-union execu-
tive office. What Mr. McGirr says from
the platform on this point will not matter
in the least. His job is to do what he is
told by the leaders of the “Labor”-
Communist “united front.” A vote for
McGirrism would be one tying the hands
of the Menzies Government in its efforts
to increase coal output. “Labor” has
for four post-war years had its full oppor-
tunity, with its own Governments in
office, to “get more coal.” Both Mr.
Chifley and Mr. McGirr were pledged up
to the hilt to do that. They failed so
utterly that they got even less coal. For
the N.S.W. electors now to vote the junior
partner in that failure into office again
would be to cripple the Menzies Govern-
ment’s efforts and sabotage the com-
munity’s own interests. A Menzies-
McGirr Joint Coal Board (Common-
wealth supplying most of the finance and
the State most of the authority for action)
would be a sorry business.
From consideration of local politics
alone, anyone who listened with open
mind to Mr, McGirr and Mr. Treatt in
their policy speeches last week could
have no doubt about which of them
offers the honest policy for restoration of
a stable working economy in the State.
Mr. McGirr must be the only political
leader on the Australian scene who be-
lieves that the 40-hour week (he promises
to reduce that now) cheapens production
and works to “put value back into the
pound” simply by some magic of its own.
In N.S.W. under the McGirr regime it
has bankrupted every State service and
left the Treasury in a condition where
any further McGirr promises of lavish
spending are nothing but hot air. If
there is any elector old enough to have
voted three years ago who attaches any
credit whatever to the latest issue of
McGirr promissory notes, he must be a
subject for a psychiatrist.
These are some of the things Mr. Mc-
Girr promised three years ago, recalled
now for use as a yardstick on his latest
list of pledges:
He was going to “put value back into
the pound.’’ He said: “We are determined
that the wage-earner shall receive more
real money and have greater purchasing
power than ever before.”
He waxed heroic on the freedom of
speech he would assure everybody. He was
going to “assemble a representativfe Con-
stitutional Convention” to do something
about it. Then he went and gagged Press
and radio from political comment for three
days before an election.
He said his Government “would not
tolerate any longer electricity blackouts,”
It has for three years been tolerating them
with unmitigated indifference.
He said: “I will let nothing deter me
from making our transport system com-
parable with that of any country in thp
w0r1d.... new noiseless trams... .highest
degree of seating comfort.... 1000 new
buses on the roads in quick time.” In
practice, he could not even collect tram-
fares sufficiently to save the whole system—
still unreformed —from piling up huge
annual debts against the taxpayer. The
public is paying one tram-fare when it
rides and another, in taxation, whether it
rides or not.
And, monumental illustration, exceed-
ing every other wild extravagance of
promising—those 90,000 new houses:
not converted war-time huts, not mere
plans on paper or Evattian foundation-
stones, but solid houses. The promise
was given in this explicit language:
We regard as an obligation which must
be fulfilled... .and undertake to have built
in this State in the next three years, no
less than ninety thousand (90,000) high-
standard homes.
It was to be done by (No. 1) the Housing
Commission, and next in order by co-
operative societies, the Rural Bank, and
local councils, then (lowest in the list)
private enterprise and the owner-
builder.
Mr. McGirr now says, and is “proud
of it” —“83,000 homes have been com-
pleted or occupied or put under construc-
tion during my term of office.” He can
get a total of 83,000 only by including
7000 “under construction,” another
10,000 or so “not begun” and 3599 “com-
munity housing” (war-time huts, etc.).
Even then the Government Statistician’s
figures for completed houses differ from
those given in the Housing Commission’s
latest quarterly report. The Statistician
puts the total for city and country com-
pleted to March last (with due allowance
added for April and May) at 56,079, and
of these it appears from other records
that 45,734 were completed by private
enterprise. The yearly average for a
total of 56,000 works out at 18,660.
In 1939, without any of this con-
centration of Government and private
effort on house-building, 11,228 buildings
(Government and private) were completed
in the metropolitan area, mostly of brick
and sandstone (N.S.W. Year-book). In
the country that year another 5962 build-
ings of lighter structure were undertaken
and most of them finished, a total of
over 17,000.
Mr. McGirr and his hot-air propa-
gandists might be asked to explain away
that comparison, if they can.
Asia and Defence.
Despite the statement supported by
President Truman of Mr. Acheson,
United States Secretary of State, that
there is no imminent threat of war, there
appears to be a very good imitation of
one abroad within reasonable reach of
Australia and calculated to spread if it
flares up. .
The grim fact is that there is war in
being in the Pacific today. China is an
armed camp, with*' Russian jet-fighters
hurtling over Shanghai. A naval battle
was fought off the mouth of the Pearl
River within sight and sound of British
Kong Kong within the past few days.
Hong Kong is a lonely islet of peace
crowded with refugees round which the
Communists are developing a nutcracker
pressure, which they hope will squeeze
the British out. Chinese forces are
gathering to invade Formosa, of which
the Pacific Allies of World War II are
the moral if not the de facto custodians,
the island being former Japanese territory
reconquered by joint Ameriican-British
effort. They threaten to engulf Tibet.
There is actual fighting in Indo-China,
while preparations go on for United
States “economic aid” to Viet-Nam. It
was reported by the “Times” on May 23
that French and Viet-Nam troops
yesterday occupied Puly, and that 24
Viet-Minh fortified camps had been
destroyed a few miles north of Saigon,
where Sir Patrick Brind, the Commander-
in-Chief of the Royal Navy’s Far-
Eastern station, arrived on‘May 22 for
talks with the French High Commis-
sioner and the Prime Minister of Viet-
Nam.
And while Mr. Spender’s emissary
conferred with other talking delegates at
Baguio in the Philippines about mutual
culture and co-operation, the Communist
bandits howled on the horizon, and it
would scarcely have been safe for any
delegates who are sitting in the northern
mountains of Luzon settling the fate of
Pacific nations to make an evening trip
by road to Manila, or even Clark Field,
except under strong guard.
In the “stable” Indonesian republic of
Mr. Spender’s imaginings there is war —
war in the Macassar area and blockade
in Amboyna, if the vague reports which
have come out of the darkness can be
believed. There is also murder, and Mr.
Spender has been compelled to ask firmly,
after recalling Australia’s Ambassador
for discussions, that Dr. Soekamo will
take appropriate measures to ensure
safety for Australian lives, many of
which have been lost in the past few
years.
In Japan General Derevyanko left
Tokyo suddenly, with all the important
members of his staff, without indulging
in normal diplomatic courtesies. He
sailed just as it was announced in Aus-
tralia that the 8.C.0.F. was to be broken
up and the Commonwealth’s tiny military
force in Japan brought home, and just
after President Truman had‘stated that
Mr. Louis Johnson, U.S. Secretary for
Defence, and General Omar Bradley,
who is likely to hold chief Allied com-
mand in any world war, were to visit
Japan to confer with General MacArthur,
“chiefly on military affairs.”
The Peking situation is just as difficult
vis-d-vis the Western Allies as that else-
where. The British having decided to
recognise the Chinese Communist Gov-
ernment, that body has been bargaining
for what it calls “genuine, not hypo-
critical friendship,” part of the specifica-
tion for which includes complete freedom
for Communist agitators and propa-
gandists in’ Malaya, The situation is
complicated by the rousing reception
given in Peking to Sardar Pannikar, the
Indian Ambassador.
The Sardar, in presenting his letters of
credence to Stalin’s Peking stooge, said
that it was “the firm intention of the
Indian Government to work in close and
friendly relationship with the Chinese
Government, since the two Governments
had so much in common.” He added;
The two Republics, representing the oldest
communities in the world, are in a position
to co-operate efficiently for their mutual
advantage and for the welfare of their
peoples, numbering together one-third of
the world’s population, and through their
co-operation to become a great and invin-
cible force. *
In reply to this Mao Tsz-tung men-
tioned the “common boundary between
the two nations,” and the “profound
understanding, sympathy and concern
between them as well as their historical
and cultural relations.” The speeches
leave a feeling that in competition for
support Australia, on any East Asian
issue, must be an also-ran.
Finally there is, very near and ominous
and run by Chinese Communists, what
their representatives in Malaya on May
18 called the Malayan natinn.i
tionary war.” The local Ad~? revolu-
com.nues to describe Ihu “ Stra t>°n
banditry,” even though it ! s mere
attention of a coupirdf S? ics the
British troops and local l!!r' ons of
volunteers without success nS aod
tion that of Mr. StracheV Rrir u me "-
Cornmumst Minister for War wn Sh «-
forth himself against the invart^ 0 We “t
with a rifle and loaded cartridv? arraed
it has now become Aushafe*' > d
concern, lralla s direct
Mr. Menzies has stated that a., *
has a vital interest in Malava^k Stra^a
of the relation of inescapable een^ ecailSe
and strategic facts to its sSiS^ aphic
that it is “part of the regiona l f and
problem in the Pacific which A defence
must share with Britain thl iT Ustralia
m the strategic region of which 2 ?°? {
is a mam support area” An«^k Straia
come round to the view of c? e has
long held by. The Buliltin T* tlon
objective of Soviet global strat P ? at an
divert to Southeast Asia as i s t 0
European military might as n nT k, h of
that it will not be available in°u? be 80
battleground of a Russo-WesteJpn T ln
viz.. Europe. Stern conflict,
He has followed this swiftly bv th
announcement that a transport sauL™
of nine Dakota aircraft draww n
No. 86 Transport Wing at Richmond
the wing which pioneered theVowt
with' 0 a ‘ tomTc^piem^rS'f
No request for any other form of mill
taiy assistance has been made by t
iust as rtl
TJ® R ., A -N. is undermanned to the mini
of futility. The R.A.A.F. is little more
than a name by modern flghtins
standards. It has not even a flight, much
less a squadron, of even obsolescent iet
fighter-bomber aircraft. The Army is
moribund, its citizen force equal to a
couple of brigades all told in actual
muster strength and armed out of the
Ark. The “permanent Army” standard
is shown by the fact that with lavish and
expensive advertising that force is unable
to attract enough recruits at inflated
wages to fill requirements which total
only 19,000. The other day our
weakness was advertised to the world
by an announcement in the English Press
that the Australian Government was
seeking there 4500 men, mainly between
18 and 30, for service in the Australian
Regular Army, which is more than 25
per cent, short of strength.
It is sincerely to be hoped that Mr.
Acheson is right and that war is not
imminent. At the same time it would be
even more comforting if, instead of
fostering the wandering talking-bees in
which Australian representatives are so
frequently involved, the Government
devoted itself to meeting the needs of our
defence situation at this uneasy period,
when, in the unanimous view of the
Foreign Ministers of 12 Atlantic Pact
nations, if war is not imminent, there is
at least a “threat of war which, in view
of the known programme of the Kremlin,
will come about unless we prepare our
defences against aggression.”
Fire Brigades.
While the Defence Ministry is sighting
on its compulsory-training target it should
remember that there is a fourth line ot
defence, luckily not called on in World
War ll—fire-fighting. Without its tire-
fighters London, like unprepared Rotter-
dam, would have burned to its founda-
tions. While Australian cities possess
their fire brigades, highly efficient s
for isolated outbreaks, an inferno
enemy bombs could make of a city
today flame virtually unchecked. Presen
brigades here have neither those
equipment whose provision alon
the holocausts started m war-time
L °There‘ was some attempt deafwiS
coastal cities in the late war t
air-raid fires ; but it was not e ’, j D
and hopelessly inadequate,
Ipswich and Brisbane, for i
different threads nozzles and wa^
main connections , 50-od . . j^ourne
ordered for Brisbane from.
were found on arrival to b P
lifting water from the riv a d strike ,
—and that’s when an onerny n ight
as the Luftwaffe did that sav g .
when the Thames was QVer yards
and hoses had to be , tream trickle,
of ooze to suck at the m three
Almost as important as cQ _ ordin .
Services, fire-fighting cabs DeP art '
ated handling by th g Equip-
ment, particularly m coast a
ment needs standardising and the
volunteers should be disbanded,
war-time advisory to change
reintroduced, with plan . far
existing brigades ia ti^e targets
flung protectors of war tun


PLAIN ENGLISH
Treatt for a New Deal.
J T is clear from the policy speeches of
the New South Wales Liberal- and
Country-party leaders that their common
programme stems from that which
ty[ r Menzies and Mr. Fadden carried
to victory at the Federal polls. The
job in hand must fall mainly on Mr.
Treatt and his party, for “Labor” has
reduced Mr. Bruxner’s potential strength
by abolishing four rural electorates. Mr.
Treatt has undertaken to restore them,
Mr. Menzies promised “a special con-
ference with State Premiers to reconsider
the financial relations between the Com-
monwealth and the States.” Mr. Treatt
places investigation into this fundamental
problem in the forefront of his plans for
restoring the prestige of the State Govern-
ment.
Other reforms which follow the
Commonwealth Ministry’s lead are:
Rooting out of Communists from
Government employment.
A new driye for coal production by
modernising coal-getting methods, includ-
ing removal of huge quantities of coal,
now neglected and deteriorating in pillars,
by mechanical extraction wherever experts
recommend it as safe and desirable. Full
employment in the mines to be assured by
Commonwealth purchase of all coal output
surplus to current needs.
Appointment of a Minister for Develop-
ment to co-operate with the corresponding
Minister at Canberra in the carrying out of
the announced national programme for
strengthening farming and secondary indus-
tries alike. (Two existing State Depart-
ments to be abolished.)
Extension into the rural areas of health,
child-welfare and educational services
comparative with those in the cities.
Long-term marketing schemes to stabilise
wheat and dairying industries on a producer-
control basis.
Enlargement of powers of local-govern-
ment bodies.
For housing, hospitals, new works,
ports and developmental railways any
drive promised by any party must remain
impotent while coal production is kept
under union policy to famine levels. It
is symptomatic of “Labor’s” attitude that
Mr. McGirr had nothing whatever to say
about coal The getting of more coal
now obviously depends upon a change
of Government in N.S.W. The McGirr
Ministry, like the McKell Ministry before
it, has persistently forbidden by Minis-
terial order any mechanical extraction of
piilar-coal, although every visiting expert,
invited to advise on it, has recommended
that the “pillars” be removed without
delav. These “pillars” represent from
150 to 250 million tons of coal condemned
by “Labor” Governments to be left to
crumble in the northern mines.
Mr. Treatt drew the greatest applause
from his opening audience with his plans
for extending the power of local govern-
ing bodies, the removal of compulsion
from voting provisions for local govern-
ment elections, and the review of certain
amalgamations of councils enforced by
Labor” against popular opposition in
the districts they serve. Decentralisation
of self-governing powers and the en-
couragement of local incentives to indus-
trial and social development are demanded
m all the countryside. While decentralisa-
tion spells the denial of “Labor’s” whole
meory of government, the Liberal and
Country parties recognise it as essential
in any real national progress.
With housewives throughout the metro-
politan area Mr. Treatt has a winning
card in his advocacy of a system of
suburban markets for fruit, vegetables and
nsh in order to cheapen costs to con-
sumers. He will certainly save the State’s
ransport and electric-power services from
imminent ruin by repealing the latest Mc-
•rr legislation, which subjects their
management to the blight of political
jontrol. He is out to abolish the farcical
Ministry for cornering building materials
i„,. e most prized commodity in
p !w ay slackmarkets)5 lackmarkets ) and the Minis-
sppiT * oundation -stone industry, and he
S- t 0 g‘ve a fair chance in home-
dnin nf *° t tbe P eo Pl £ who are really
,u 'ng the job-employers in the trade and
me owner-builder.
Post Office Wakes Up.
inS? + SURES . about multiple telephone
been.?? ln some P rivate h °mes have
ripon promptly by the new
m H L Anthony. It
win, an . no l unced by the P.M.G. at Mur-
be7? bah on Saturday that “there will
ment’f^- + al i lghtening ' u P of the de part-
toWards certain tele P hone
d«Si S „ n ? ification coincided with the
25 phones (out of huu-
special Sydn , ey ’ P olice raids on the
lal telegraph«offices at Caulfield, in
Melbourne, and “a police blitz against
s.-p. operators” in Brisbane.
Comment by one Sydney bookmaker
to S. M. Herald” was;
T.7A^ 0t S 5 many years a 2° the department
welcomed our applications. They gave us
as many separate lines as we wanted —and
they knew why we wanted them, too.
Apparently viewpoints change.
Prune reason for intervention by
2 e A¥-9‘ is re P° rted to be allegations
that blackmarketeers in betting prices
nave been tapping telephone conversa-
tions of people engaged in the traffic,
the reports were serious ,enough to
compel an investigation by P.M.G.
officials within as well as outside the
department. The results have yet to be
disclosed. Meanwhile the Northern
Territory’s new Legislative Council has
declared for the system adopted by S.A.
some years ago and has passed a bill
legalising off-the-course betting which the
Government Secretary says can be re-
garded “as an added amenity and an
emancipation, and as furthering the de-
velopment of the Northern Territory.”
In eastern Australia the heat is obvi-
ously being turned on to a traffic banned
by State laws which have never been fully
enforceable, being ignored by great
numbers of citizens. Since State laws
take the view they do—and the reason
for their existence is the protection of
other great numbers of citizens from be-
ing bereft of their money—it is clearly
wrong that the Federal Government,
through the Post Office, should provide
means for defeating those laws. Mr.
Anthony is to be congratulated in acting
against a racket which has been fostered
by other political interests for so long.
To Benefit Youth.
Australia’s eight million people have
between them six established universities,
one each in the six State capitals. In
addition, there is a University College at
Armidale (N.S.W.) and, in course of
erection and staffing, a National Uni-
versity in Canberra and a University of
Technology in Sydney. For a while there
was a university extension at Mildura;
attempts are being made to revive it.
Between them these institutions con-
tribute a vast proportion of the knowledge
behind the nation’s agriculture, business,
industry, government, administration,
culture, science and so on. They are
parochial neither in their faculties nor
their achievements. If they do not
occupy the place in public estimation
which they should, the fault is not theirs
so much as that of the national tempera-
ment. The main point about them is that
they go on, irrespective of wars, drought,
flood, booms, depressions, party politics
and other disasters and triumphs. And
their invaluable work goes on with them.
Each of them has its individual
problems, each peculiar, perhaps, to itself.
The one in Brisbane is just now trying to
deal with a pretty big problem, and it
expects (fairly enough) help from
other States. In brief, the six University
colleges are out to raise £600,000 in
order to build six residential colleges, and
they hope to get the money privately, be-
cause acceptance of State Government
help could mean Government domination
to a greater degree than already exists.
The Queensland Government has
promised a £-for-£ subsidy up to £50,000
for each of the six colleges. Each of them
plans to house 100 students as a begin-
ning. Residence in such colleges is a most
important phase of character-building— at
present the students have to live elsewhere
as best they can, often miles from the
lecture-rooms—and is a decided advan-
tage to students for various obvious
reasons.
There is justification in the appeal for
assistance beyond Queensland borders.
Many flourishing southern concerns draw
big incomes from Queensland, graduates
from Queensland University go into
business and professional life all over the
Commonwealth. The university has
never received large private benefactions,
as have others, and it is felt that money
to help this work amounts to investing in
higher education some of the profits
taken out of the State.
In addition to feeding the general
business and professional life of Austra-
lia with its graduates, Queensland Uni-
versity is particularly aware of the
northern State’s closeness to develop-
ments in the Pacific, and its Darnell
Institute of Pacific Studies is a valuable
national asset. But while the students are
scattered in boarding-houses and impro-
vised colleges, the university cannot fulfil
its function as it should. Its appeal for
funds, therefore, should not ring vainly
on ears attuned to- Queensland profits or
the national welfare in general.
The Proof in the Petrol.
Along with the socialisation issue, the
last Federal election was in part a petrol
election, the “Labor” party insisting that
the dollar position necessitated petrol-
rationing, the Menzies-Fadden party as
equally insistent that petrol-rationing had
been long unnecessary, that “Labor” kept
it on both because it wanted control for
control’s sake and because it was working
hand-in-glove with the British Socialist
Government to keep petrol under control.
One of the first things the Menzies-
Fadden Government did was to abolish
petrol-rationing. “Labor” opposed it,
holding that stocks weren’t sufficient, that
it would drain dollar reserves, would in-
jure Britain’s economic cause, would
effect defence and a lot of other things.
How wrong was “Labor” was shown
the other day when Senator McLeay,
Minister for Fuel, said that, in addition
to the defence reserve, oil companies had
held in stock at the end of each month
since January well over 70 million gallons,
as compared with 41 million a month in
1948 and 53 million in 1949, the last of
the rationing years. This, the Minister
pointed out, was in spite of the vast in-
crease in new motor vehicles during the
past six months. Later, it was announced
that consumption of petrol after it was
freed had not risen more than 5 per
cent., which bore out several things, one
being that petrol at 3s. a gallon (more
in country districts) would ration itself.
Britain has now abolished rationing.
On the face of it, Mr. Fadden’s pre-
election charge that the Attlee Socialists
were deliberately misleading the Chifley
Socialists on this stands proven. New
Zealand the other week suddenly realised
that it, too, had been misled by Attlee’s
crowd which, like the since-deposed
Chifleys, clung to controls a£* part of
their Socialist creed.
It is now clear that in Britain, as in
Australia, petrol-rationing was continued
long past the time when it could have
been abolished. It is also clear that any
democratic people who want realism in
a Government can’t expect to get it from
Socialist Administrations, which prefer
to accept the dictum of “advisers” of the
same color as themselves rather than the
honest advice of practical men. Indeed,
in many things other than petrol it has
been proven again and again that, so far
as British peoples are concerned. Social-
istic “controls” are a washout.
New Zealand land Values.
Since values for homes in Maoriland
were freed from their chains about four
months ago, farmers have been waiting
and hoping for release of land values
but so far nothing has happened. For
eight years values for N.Z. farms have
been pegged down while costs and prices
have risen in most other directions on
the surging inflationary tide, and farmers
around retiring age who don’t want to
sacrifice are wondering how much longer
they 11 have to hold on to regain sound
values. If they decide to sell while the
market is still in a straitjacket they’ll
take a loss equal to the shrinkage in the
pound since 1942. Experts figure out
that thousands of small farms, which
have been most hit by control, would
jump in value by as much as 25 p.c. if
left to find their own level, and the rise
would taper off to nil for bigger areas.
There’s a clue to market trends in the
rise of around 25 p.c. for urban and
suburban homes up to £2OOO since the
freeing of this section of the market,
with values tailing off between £2OOO and
£3OOO, and no movement above £3OOO,
because homeless Maorilanders crowding
the market are pinched for cash and
usually find difficulty in scraping together
more than a few hundreds. Farm-buyers
have limitations in the size of their purses,
too, and look mostly for farms up to
£4OOO, with modest homes and an equally
modest living to support them.
For large estates, M.L.’s near-mono-
pohst buyer for years was the Labor-
Socialist Government, until it disappeared
from the scene at the end of 1949. The
Socialist policy of land-nationalisation
was pushed ahead just as fast as funds
could be gathered together to buy or
credit could be conjured up. Of late
months this trend has been halted, and
any sellers of big sheep or grazing runs
who want to cash-in on them are left
virtually high and dry. The Socialists
are no longer there to bolster up values,
although that wasn’t their aim, or to
place a floor under the market where it
was most sensitive, and anyone with a
fat bank account should find it easy now
to become a landholder in the well-to-do
group at values below 1942-50 standstill
levels. Fat prices for wool, meat and
butter have been largely swallowed up
by inflated costs, which are still rising,
except where farmers have been in a
position to run the show as a family
effort and snap their fingers at the tight
labor market.
The new Holland Government has been
racking its brains to find a way out of
the jungle where land values are en-
tangled, but can’t see daylight yet. With
prices for farms inclined to be wobbly
for areas above average size, more or less
unbalanced over most of the field, and
heavily against any prospective sellers
at the lower end of the scale, while ex-
ports are netting record returns on world
markets, it’s time to get busy adjusting
things before “prosperity” begins to ebb.
These Camerons.
“Lochiel” explains:
There have been strong clashes of wills in
the Canberra Parliament lately, and I am not
surprised. The Camerons are determined people,
being very religious for the most part, and
bonny men in a fight, with man or the devil.
There are four of them, no less, in this Parlia-
ment —forbye, a very mixed lot—and outside
their home glens four Camerons in one place
are enough, to stir up any surroundings.
A grand fellow is Archie, the Speaker, and
he has my sympathy; there would not be any
trouble with him if those tin-can boys on his
left didn’t provoke him. It’s a bad thing to
provoke a Cameron, especially when done inten-
tionally. If you read Boswell you’ll remember
how he and his Dr. Johnson got to some remote
isle in the Hebrides and there found some poor
wretch hiding and afraid to show his face, for
he was from the mainland, and “had been so
unfortunate” as to murder a Cameron, and
he knew what that meant for the rest of his
life, with some possible relaxation for the time
being if the Camerons should be engaged in
serious war towards the Border.
But they’re also a soft-hearted people, except-
ing a lassie or two I’d prefer not to mention
further, and are full of humane emotions if
properly treated. Ye’ll have heard of the
Cameron who had a kirk in Glasgow and in
a sermon warned his congregation of the wrath
of God, and how it would be no use their
saying on the Day of Judgment that they didn’t
know the penalties would be so severe “because
Lord God will answer ye—‘Weel, ye ken it
the noo.’ ” The poor sinner laddie who thought
he was being preached at particularly—and no
doubt he was—sought the preacher afterwards
with tears on his face and begged him not to
make it so hard, and the preacher, overcome
by emotion —for a Cameron has that, as I said
—put his hand kindly on his shoulder and
told him —“Ah, mon, maybe it will not be so;
for there’s nobody can be sure just what the
Lord God will say to ye, not even me. ’
And since it’s no good any of those fellies
that might want to make it up with Archie
offering to buy him a whisky, they had better
try to make peace with him by asking him about
the sub-clover industry at Onkaparinga.
IN THE AIR.
“Two T.A.A. pilots, on a trip to Sydney on a clear night, saw what they described
as a flying saucer’ in the air near Canberra.”
While on their way to Sydney Town, an aeronautic pair
Observed a hovering saucer in an astronomical flare:
“We didn’t know what to make of it,” they said, "but thought it queer—
’Twas an awesome sight on a shining night in the season of the year!”
“There’s nothing in that,” said Jim McGag; “there’s more than saucers there,
For when I lowered the working week, things went up everywhere;
They flew so high the common eye can’t see them terrible clear,
But they’re my delight on a shining night in the season of the year.
“There’s many a treat of bread and meat and shoes and clothes to wear
That spends the day in the Milky Way with the extra Saturday fare;
There’s bun at a shilling a ton, my boys; it’s in the stratosphere—
But it’s my delight on a shining night in the season of the year.
“And many invisible sights I see, and silent sounds I hear,
Of noiseless trams, and harbors and dams all filled with bottles of beer—■
You’ve got to take my word for them, and not be too severe,
For they’re my delight on a shining night in the season of the year.
"I've still got millions of pounds to spend, if you all pay your share.
And if there’s nothing to show for it, there’s nobody needs despair—
I’ll solve your housing problems with my castles in the air,
For they’re my delight on a shining night in the season of the year!”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


CRAVEN
A
It’s their consistent
freshness that
makes me prefer
CRAVENA
UUn#
V*
A
CARRERAS LIMITED OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION
POLITICAL POINTS
Federal Parliament, which was opened
on February 22, is due to close within
a fortnight—June 15 and 22 are can-
vassed as likely dates. So far it has not
passed a bill, though' child endowment
may go through this week. There is little
prospect that either the Senate Reform
Bill or the Communist Dissolution Bill
will be through before the House rises
unless a more relenting mood than that
which at present exists develops on one
side or other.
The years don’t bring any new thoughts
to Senator Donald Cameron. He sees
the Bank Bill and the Anti-Communist
Bill as “part of a plan to deal with prob-
able organised resistance against the
depression which the Government sees
from economic conditions is approach-
ing.” The implication is that the Govern-
ment not only expects a depression, but
wants one, and will “deal with” anyone
who doesn’t. It is the sort of rot “Labor”
men —and the Communists —have been
preaching for years. Leaving moral and
other issues aside, no Government wants
a depression, if for no other reason than
that no Government, Liberal or “Labor,”
survives a depression. The early 1930’s
were sufficient proof of that.
Two views on the anti-Red bill —or are
they one? Joint resolution of the Com-
munist-controlled seamen’s, miners’ and
watersiders* unions:
The bill is designed to smash the trade-
union movement in preparation for an all-
out attack on the living standards of the
workers by the coal barons, shipowners and
the other sections of big business _ that the
Menzies Government speaks for; it is part
of the preparations for a Third World War.
E. J Ward, M.H.R. for East Sydney:
The legislation has been designed deli-
berately to smash the Labor movement
and divide its forces in the hope that, m
its weakened condition, it will be unable to
resist the Fascist menace that is rapidly
arising in Australia.
In the course of his speech on the bill
Ward remarked: “I am not here as an
advocate of the Soviet.” Certainly not;
just an old admirer, as a search through
“Hansard” will reveal.
In passing their joint resolution the
wharfies, seamen and miners undertook
to render mutual assistance of a “moral,
financial and industrial character” in the
event of any of the unions being involved
in a struggle. That first word seems to
be a syllable short.
Since the Avoidance of Deadlocks Bill
was introduced the Federal Opposition
seems to be bubbling over with
suggestions for improving the Senate.
While in office it turned a deaf ear to all
suggestions for a constitutional conven-
tion and bludgeoned through the Redistri-
bution Bill which was the cause of the
present trouble. Chifley called the new
bill “clumsy”; what would be the right
word for his own Act which, in a Parlia-
ment wherein the numbers in the Senate
are approximately half those of the Repre-
sentatives, gives Ta'smania 10 Senators
and five Reps?
To arrive at his figure of 83,000 houses
“achieved” in his three years reign—he
had promised 90,000 —McGirr included
houses begun before the commencement
of the period and completed during it;
houses begun and finished during the
term ; houses begun but not yet finished.
If the same principle were applied to
financial transactions income for the year
would include cash in hand at the begin-
ning, income earned during the year and
income anticipated to be received in the
future for work begun but not completed.
McGirr is also N.S.W. Treasurer ; is that
how he keeps the State’s accounts?
The great McGirr anti-bread-zoning
law came into force on Monday, and
Minister Finnan was heard loudly
threatening bakers and breadcarters with
£lOO fine or six months if they didn’t
deliver the goods. It’s intended to wring
votes from housewives on June 17 for
“Labor,” but Sydney housewives are too
worried about the disappearance of eggs
and milk, the prevalence of blackouts, and
rocketing prices to be persuaded that
they’ve gained anything.
All was not complete amity at the
function at which McGirr’s Housing
Commission named its largest project in
North Sydney—a block of flats named
in honor of Francis Greenway. A Mr.
Kelly, who is Deputy-Director of Hous-
ing, suggested—“in lighter vein”—that a
future project might well be dedicated
to the memory of an illustrious person in
earlier Australian history of his own
name. Whereupon Jim Geraghty, the
scorned and rejected of the A.L.P. execu-
tive for the North Sydney State election
nomination, declared in the voice of a
bull that he knew just the building to
carry on Ned’s memory—in Goulburn-
street. The best-known edifice in that
thoroughfare is the Trades Hall.
The trials of 92 Japanese charged with
war-time atrocities began belatedly on
June 5 at Manus before a military court
headed by Mr. Justice Townley, of
Queensland. It seems a pity that the men
have been tried in advance by Pressmen
who are on the spot, most of whom have
already convicted and hanged the lot,
some even mentioning the names of the
prospective hangmen. The trials are only
useful at this stage if they impress the
Japanese as being fairly conducted, which
they will be, though a lot of the Press
publicity about the “toughness” of the
court and the presumed guilt of the
prisoners might easily lead to misconcep-
tions.
Queensland Opposition parties claimed
before the elections that the electoral
scales were weighted against them; an
analysis of the actual voting now issued
by the Liberal party gives strong support
to the claim. “Labor,” with 291,254
votes, roughly 47 per cent., gained 42
seats; the Liberal and Country parties,
with 304,433, roughly 49 per cent., won
31. Had there been contests in the three
electorates in which “Labor” thought so
little of its chances that it allowed the
Opposition to hold them unopposed the
disparity would obviously have been even
greater.
“Labor’s” forebodings of the petrol
orgy that would follow the abolition of
rationing seem to have been a long way
off the mark. Consumption for the first
three coupon-free months was up 20
million gallons on the 104 million for
the corresponding period of 1949. During
the intervening 12 months motor-vehicle
registrations increased by 12 per cent, and
allowance must be made for a corres-
ponding increase in petrol consumption
before comparisons are made between the
two periods. Making this adjustment
Fuel Minister McLeay claims that the
increase actually attributable to the
wiping-out of rationing is less than 5 per
cent. One thing the previous Govern-
ment refused to accept was that at 3s. a
gallon people do not use petrol just for
the fun of paying for it.
Commenting on Opposition indigna-
tion at suggestions that “Labor” had in
the past strung along with Communism,
Dr. Nott, the Capital Territory’s first
made one of the few bright
quips of the anti-Red debate: “If a
man looks, waddles and talks like a duck,
he cannot complain if he is taken for a
duck.”
To investigate the much-discussed ques-
tion of whether Australian war prisoners
should receive a payment in lieu of
service-subsistence while they were in
enemy hands, the Commonwealth Govern-
ment has appointed a committee consist-
ing of Mr. Justice Langer Owen (of
N.S.W.), Lieut.-Gen. Savidge (ex-G.O.C.
Sixth Division) and Dr. W. E. Fisher,
president of the Council of the Eighth
Division and service associates. All three
are ex-servicemen and their report should
settle the quest iory
“Becks”: Two batches of Sydney University
professors and lecturers wrote to the “Sydney
Morning Herald” protesting against the Anti-
Red Bill. When the Herald commented that
some of the signatories might change their view
if they were “called upon to act rather than
observe,” two of the fraternity, J. D. B. Miller
and Henry Mayer, wrote saying that they
personally felt that “the force of public opinion,
in and out of the trade-unions,” was sufficient
tb keep the Communists in check, and that
“when and if emergencies such as the coal
strike arise, they should be dealt with through
existing or special legislation.” The letter con-
cluded: “The preservation of freedom is worth
a cold fireplace now and then.” There is no
disputing the truth of that sentiment, but the
writers must know that it is far from expressing
the real position.
If the only harm the Reds had done this
country was forcing it to endure “a cold fire-
place now and then,” the brill would never have
been introduced. In so writing down the Aus-
tralian Communists’ grim tally of sabotage,
waste and deliberate hindrance of national
recovery they overlook the essential point that
all this has been done as part of a world-wide
plan in the interests of a foreign Power which,
over a large portion of the earth’s surface, has
liquidated freedom. The choice of the words
“a cold fireplace” was unfortunate; Red-spon-
sored strikes which made the fireplaces cold
were also responsible, through the intermittent
gas service they necessitated, for the death by
asphyxiation of a considerable number of elderly
people—one, at least, within a mile of Sydney
University.
A sanitary note in N.S.W. politics was
in a recent issue of a suburban news-
paper :
Murray Robson (Lib., Vaucluse) will
hold an open-air meeting at Watson’s
Bay when he will-welcome suggestions
in regard to the new tram- and bus-services.
Why let wash-days get you down when you
can get De Luxe Laundrette to pick up and
deliver? Call in and talk it over
Perhaps Mr. Robson is preparing for
a lorry-load of dirty linen from
Macquarie-street.
McGirr said at Wagga that “only the
Labor party is capable of carrying out a
real policy of economic decentralisation
in N.S.W.” If he means that continuance
of “Labor” in office will drive people out
of Sydney he’s dead right.
As Sydney’s oldest daily puts it: “It is
understood that if further clashes occur
over rulings by the Speaker, the Govern-
ment will not support him unless it is
completely satisfied that he is right.”
Surely this can’t mean the paper
believes that previously it would have
supported him if “completely satisfied”
that he was wrong.
<
Heffron, the McGirr Minister for
Education, took press- and cameramen to
a Sydney suburb to witness the erection
in seven hours of a prefabricated school
to hold 80 children. It’s the first of 280 of
the things ordered from Britain at a cost
of £1 million, and Mr. Heffron believes
they will relieve the congestion in State
schools. They’re made of aluminium and
glass, and unless account of the hot Aus-
tralian summer sun has been taken by the
English makers, the pupils confined in
them are in for a sizzling time.
Australia House officials in London
have announced the purchase of a third
whaling-ship from Norway, this one to
cost £15,000. Any day now startling in-
formation may come out of Canberra that
somebody has caught a whale.
their fathers’ footsteps into th° U ° Wed
Legislative Council. J M T u* he W.A.
just squeezed home by 17 v? 50 ] 1 ’ wlj o
South Proyince, is th ; for the
Alex. Thomson, who sat f or the P S ° n of
for over twenty years, but did ? Vlnce
re-election this time. Before ? 1 Seek
the Upper House, Thomson ent to
leader of the W.A. Qnintrv n n '° r Wa «
held the Katanning seat in the Asseml?
The son, who is a timber-merchll bly-
contractor, promises to stir uo tK and
connection with the housing bon, ° gs in
His team-mate is Norman EBa? eck-
won the Central Province vacant
the death of his father,™
Three years ago he stood ‘ra Xt ? r -
Northam seat of the Assembly the
“Labor” Minister Hawke the fig™
Sydney “Tribune,” calling on a
trahans “in the name of
sign the so-called “peace petition” cW tO
that something like 45 millioT^i™ 8
Europe have already r
course, on the other side of the Wr 1
tain. The list includes 6,000,000 Bui?'
Not a bad total for a coSy B fe
claims only a little over 7,000 000
and admits that 25 per cent. ’oUn ?
and 40 per cent, of its women tS
write Those who can must have had
writers cramp by the time the list
complete. db
Some of these politicians will sav anv
thing. Premier Hanlon had the face to
tell Queensland reporters that beef
“fattened on stubble left after harvesting
sorghum at Peak Downs” had been
judged by “British experts” as better than
the average Australian meat received in
Britain. Both Hanlon and the “experts”
had better keep away from beef exporters
for a few .days. ’
Last week, with the permission of the
Joint Coal Board, the owners of Stock-
rington No. 2 colliery on the northern
N. S. Wales field closed the mine pend-
ing the miners’ giving an assurance that
they would work with continuity. The
owners claim that since the beginning
of the year strikes have occurred on 21
of the 99 working days. Of the five
“working” days before the closure strikes
occurred on four ; the company then got
the board’s permission not to reopen.
Dr. Burton, back from the Philippines,
told reporters that he did not agree that
the Baguio conference had failed. Of
course it didn’t. No conference ever
fails ; if the conferees can’t agree on the
points they came together to argue they
find some others on which they can. It’s
called diplomacy.
According to the Communist secretary
of the watersiders, J. Healy, withdrawal
of leave credits in Brisbane and Sydney
has caused “general resentment” andean
only lead to industrial disturbances on
the waterfront. Hasn’t he got it the
wrong way round? It was industrial
disturbances on the waterfront that
caused the withdrawal of the leave credits.
Geraghty (North Sydney), one of the
four “unendorsed” Labor candidates,
claims that the A.L.P. executive dumpe
him because of his consistent attacks on
such monopolies as the breweries, the
A.J.C. and the Stadium and because he
had been “mainly responsible for buck ng
the central executive’s nominee for tne
Premiership in 1947.” The e
“nominee” was Heffron ; McGirr beath m
by one vote. Six weeks ago, when McG r
was alternately swallowing and regurg
ating his pride and
Trades Hall again had Heffron lioriP
for the job, but it seems to hlush-
be always the brid Geraghty issued
ing bride. Last Friday £ vice-
a writ against C. W. a _ use
president o£ the N. S. Wales ALT.,
not disclosed.


fd
TAKING HIMSELF FOR A RIDE.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Vingter”: Bar-room melodies are
frowned upon by Australian publicans
because, while singing, patrons are not
buying Bung’s wares. Furthermore, the
singing drunk destroys bar-room social
harmony more often than he engenders
it. On his initial outburst a bar-room
songster usually receives an admiring or
amused audience. Then, at the end of
an item, an equally sozzled virtuoso at
the other end of the bar feels impelled
to become vocal. The first performer
hears him through with warlike courtesy,
and then sidles along the counter to take
up a position behind the rival artist before
delivering his next offering. The contest
is then on. The atmosphere becomes
electric, but does not explode till one of
the singers attempts to repeat the item
rendered immediately before by the
other. A second later the troubadours
“All right , all right—your chest's O.K."
are trouncing each other. Protagonists
are seldom lacking. The barmen jump
the counter to terminate the melee which
began in melody, and once more Bung
swears he’ll have no more singing drunks
on his premises.
♦ * * *
“C. J. Mennis”: For a Radiant
Parenthood contest this young couple
would be sitters. We saw them arrive
at the talkie-theatre with as fine a trio
of youngsters as could be seen anywhere.
The little boy and girl were a pigeon-
pair of about three to four years. In the
new grey pram lay a 1950-model Aussie,
swathed in a fine silk, shawl. As for
Him and Her —well, such a family
organisation was nothing less than
miraculous for a pair so fresh and un-
harried. During the show the kiddies
behaved like young angels ; not a peep
out of even the 1950-model. When it
was over and the mob began its unruly
rush from aisle to street, I lingered
behind, loath to see the last of this
astonishing and admirable portrayal of
the ideal family. She was calmly deft
in repacking the infant into its silken
cocoon. He took the pigeon-pair with
quiet competence through the milling
populace. Only when they had collected
the pram and gained the front footpath
did any sign of undue concern appear.
Looking at his watch, He said to Her
with an urgency that brooked no delay:
“Hey! We’d better get a wriggle on.
Their Mum and Dad said they’d get
home from the party at midnight.”
♦ * * *
“Kelms”: It’s nice to have friends,
and it’s handy to possess a phone, but
a Perth man who has both can’t think
of either without being reminded of mad
dogs. The other morning a chap rang
and offered to give him a dog which was
guaranteed to discourage burglars, dis-
member tradesmen, de-bag postmen and
generally embroil this bloke in endless
litigation. Somewhat puzzled, he de-
clined, and was wondering at this sudden
generosity from a perfect stranger when
he received another offer, this time of a
dog whose owner stipulated that the dog
must be fetched—he wouldn’t go near
it himself. Before the day was out the
unfortunate phone-owner was beginning
to believe that Perth was inhabited by
madmen who wanted him to relieve them
of savage hounds which they were loath
to destroy because of misplaced senti-
ment. It turned out that a friend had
advertised for a savage dog, using his
phone-number.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
W. S. Kent Hughes: “Spoke” (B.
10/5/’5O) is a generation out in^. saying
that I once protested that public-school
rowing races should be abolished as they
were detrimental to the future health of
adolescents. Twas the father, Dr. Kent
Hughes, not the son, who held wordy
warfare with Dicky Adamson, of Wesley,
in the columns of the Melbourne Press
on the subject of schoolboy racing.
“Myself when young did eagerly
frequent, etc.,” but I never rowed except
for pleasure
* ♦ * *
“Molar”: Itinerant tooth-pullers (B.
19/4 /’50)? When I was a kid our town
had a visit from one of these gentry.
His dental efforts were confined to a
night-session when, in a hired dray lit
with carbide-lamps, he first enlightened
the crowd as to his skilled prowess as a
tooth-extractor. Then at half a crown a
pop the yokels stepped up on to the
dray surgery for the “operation”—much
to the delight of the onlookers. Much
sales-talk was thrown about as to his skill
whilst the “technique” was being applied,
This, no doubt, was applied-psychology
for the patient’s benefit. When the supply
of patients ran out the sale of tooth-
powder would begin and of toothache
“cure” for unfortunate outbackers not
able to take advantage of his all-too-short
visit. Next would come a dissertation
on his other “academic” avocation,
phrenology. This was a full-day session ;
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. He would prefer
appointments; otherwise he would just
have to deal with the mad rush he
" You to move , Mr. Smith."
expected in the back room of a local pub.
My Dad, out of curiosity, took me along
to have my bumps read. I still have this
50-odd-year-old “diagnosis.” Dad wasn't
impressed when the old boy decided that
the most outstanding bump on my skull
betokened a flair for journalism ; he had
planned a course in dentistry for me. So
a tooth-tugger—non-itinerant—I became,
though the bump-reader would probably
be gratified to know that this is the latest
of many pars for which The Bulletin
has paid me. *
♦ * ♦ *
“Uco”: Those “bright birds” (B.
31/5/ ’5O) who profited by the rain-
insurance policy would probably have
been deeply insulted if anyone had sug-
gested that their action was dishonest,
but if the insurance company had known
the full facts it could have refused to
pay out on the part of the policy for
which they had put up the premium. The
agricultural society had-an “insurable
interest” in the state of the weather as it
stood to lose gate-money in the event of
rain; individual committeemen had no
such interest and ran no such risk —their
part of the contract was a straight-out
gamble and, as such, illegal.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Linguistic difficulties of New
Australians (B. 24/5 / ’50)? A friend of
mine has been boarding one —a German
bacteriologist, once of note in his own
country. My friend’s wife asked him
what he would like to drink with break-
fast —tea or coffee. “I command a cup
of coffee,” he said. One of the meanings
of “command” is “to require,” and one
of the meanings of “to require” is “to
want” and one of the meanings of “to
want” is “to crave” and one of the mean-
ings of “to crave” is “to desire or entreat
humbly or seriously.” With the aid of a
dictionary the N.A. has painstakingly and
with German thoroughness worked it all
out, but my friend’s wife said to her
hubby later: “I told you so—deep down
the man’s a Nazi.”
* ♦ ♦ *
“Caballer”: Dangerous cargoes? In my
youth, in the old country, big four-masted
grain-ships used to bring wheat from San
Francisco. Much of it was stowed loose,
and on a ship’s arrival the wharf-lumpers
would swarm aboard, and, ankle-deep in
wheat, would shovel it into lighters. A
ship arrived carrying linseed. As usual
the wharfies took off the hatches, and
one, more eager than the rest, leapt lightly
down on the loose grain. He sajk out of
sight, and in spite of frantic work it was
hours before they recovered his body,
buried under tons of oily, slippery linseed
in which a man sinks as if in liquid mud.
* * * •
“Hamfat”: Preparations are being
made for holding the Ober-Ammergau
Passion Play again in circumstances
worthy of a commercialised age, with the
probable profits set out in dollars. One
of the world’s first full-length “flicks”
was made of the Passion Play of five
decades ago, and reached these shores;
it was a pretty fair picture for the time.
An outfit which ran the show through
New Zealand, where I was touring, was
impressively religious about the produc-
tion, which was put oni nn ..
after the small team ”' ght
the week m boosting it; charges w T at
sion being unlawful the 1 admis-
advertise a "silver-coli cS°leT B had
door”; but a brisk trade w^V 1 the
reservations” at two-bob a t; done in
the packed house must have and
satisfactory. Songs like “The S 1 sUlte5 Ulte
were sung at intervals, with “Hn° y ? ty "’
Home" to send the house awa^*
close. The management was shocked
when its creditors—reps of the local
papers, billposters and so on—attended at
the stage door to collect payment of
their accounts, as customary with
theatrical shows on the last night. It
tried to avoid any unnecessary business
on the Sabbath, it said: the accounts
would be paid on Monday. The creditors
were impressed, no doubt; but they
were angry next day when they found
the birds had flown with all their takings
intact.
♦ < ¥ *
“Jobber”: Return of The Bulletin’s
old full-length pink overcoat took my
mind back to an afternoon in London in
1916. I had just received a copy of The
Bully, and it naturally followed that I
had to find a post to lean against while
I had a quick run-through. I had just
got settled when I heard a bloke say
“Pardon me for interrupting you,
Digger, but when I see an Aussie lean-
ing against a post reading The Bulletin
I just can’t resist him.” I instinctively
felt for my wallet and made sure the
tunic was buttoned over the pocket. I
was wrong; he was dinkum—a rejected
volunteer who had got into the Army
Remount business. He was living in the
house that had once been the home of
David Garrick, and I spent a pleasant
hour or two with him yarning about our
back-country, which he knew very well.
s(e ♦ * *
“Mark Heim”: The London “Time
and Tide” writer (B. 24/5/’5O) is in error
in attributing: “Sir, X disagree with every
word you say, but I would fight to me
death for your right to say it to Vo-
taire. It was printed first in 1906 in The
Friends of Voltaire, and its author is
Evelyn Beatrice Hall. .The M"*
taire came to it was in an Essay on
Tolerance” where he wrote: Think tor
yourselves and let others enjoy the ngh
to do so, too.” It would seem that Vo
taire himself was not very tolerant ol
others’ opinions nor pven to 8
the death for anything. Th f. shr ® d skin ,
fellow avoided endangering h
His reputation for integrity was never
very high, and th f 4 S rea jes du Lundi,”
habit.” After studying _ the
one finds that St. B««™ » : g all .
truth than the romantic Evely
“Cauboy”: That fin® pre ce(lent at
“Musica Viva,” starte _ P j n its
the Assembly Hall m M first per ,
latest concert season. A in .
formance of a progr tet by the
eluded a new String Q intense
American Walter P “» alK }ience over
apathy was shown hy the au th
the work of the £ was omitted at
machine-like name that g e ethoven
the next P erfo jS ed ’ The manage-
quartet being substituted- th e V**
ment announced fi°^ ’ body cared jo
would be repeated if a; > 0 of the auch-
stay and stick it. *
ence departed.
THE WORLD-BEATERS.
“A Soviet alpine-climbing expedition, using new
technique and equipment, is to make an attempt on
Mt. Everest.”
The craggy Himalayan giant,
Its head in the eternal snows.
Since Time began has been defiant
Of puny Man. The “puny” goes,
Of course, for those who earn a crust
Under the Capitalistic lash —
Decadent Westerners who must
Inevitably “bite the dust”—
From Everest’s cold ramparts crash.
How different, though, with Russki men,
They who behind the Curtain dwell,
And who are let out now and then
To show the world how really well
They do the things that can’t be done
By plutocrats from out the West,
Like shooting microbes with a gun,
Or taking at a steady run
The icy sides of Everest.
So Joe, the Father of them all,
Ordered the climb, quite confident;
Warned every man he mustn’t fall
While he was»making the ascent.
All their equipment was, of course,
The very best that they could get.
From every Yank and English source
They quickly garnered it, perforce,
Until they felt that they were “set.”
They trained, not like the stupid West,
Who climb up smaller mountains first
Their scientific aids to test,
Their routine carefully rehearsed;
With them a special scheme prevailed:
With threats full of a nameless dread
By Commissars they were regaled
Of what would happen if they failed.
On propaganda they were fed.
The mammoth climb was led by Serge
Someone (it ended with a “ski”),
As the attempt did with a purge —
That naturally had to be.
For, though ’twas claimed a great success
The expedition “took the count”;
Everest made their hopes a mess
Because Fifth Columns are, you’ll guess
Of not much use against a mount.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


“B. A. Ker”; I’ve often wondered
whether it was by accident or design that
a pair of escaped convicts chose a holi-
day resort for a hideout. In no other
place' could tenants know less about their
neighbors. I once arrived late at night to
visit a sister who was enjoying a seaside
holiday. Following her written direc-
tions I got off the bus on the left-hand
side, crossed the road and turned to the
right, etc. ' By the greatest stroke of luck
1 didn’t walk off a cliff into the Pacific.
Obviously my instructions were haywire ;
the thing to do was find somebody who
knew Ocean View-street. Some distant
lights offered possibilities. They turned
out to be tents in the camping area.
Nobody still awake had heard of Ocean
View-street. Sounds of revelry came
from somewhere far away on the right.
I tracked them down; a party was in
progress. One of the guests very sport-
ingly dragged himself away from the
vicinity of the keg, walked about 70
yards with me, and pointed out a street-
light. “Turn down by there.” I did—
and again I just checked myself on the
verge of a plunge into the briny. Back
near the place where the bus had stopped,
I decided to knock on the door of a
cottage. A badly-frightened female voice
asked what I wanted. I inquired the
name of the street. She didn’t know;
she was a stranger; ask next door—they
were here when she came. The bloke
next door didn’t take a very kindly view
of my predicament. Anyhow, he didn’t
know; he’d only been here a week.
That’s when I turned the whole thing
up and shivered myself to sleep on the
beach. Next day I found the place ; but
Sis still maintains that she does know
her right from her left —the bus must
have come in from the opposite direction.
♦ * * *
“WX1647”; Sam, a Westralian Digger,
in the Stalag at Lockhausen, Bavaria, was
detailed to clean the quarters of the camp
commandant (known as the Bullfrog).
We shared our quarters with vermin
originally acquired in an old Turkish
barracks in Salonika, and a nightly ritual
among us was the removal of them
from our underclothing. Every Sunday
morning the Bullfrog would make an in-
spection of our barracks; invariably his
question would be “Have you any lice?”
and invariably our reply would be “No.”
Then would come “Now do not be
ashamed; I have them, too.” Too right
he had ’em ; every night Sam called for
a tarpaulin-muster into a tobacco-tin
and every morning he sprinkled them
among the Bullfrog’s blankets.
• * * *
“Bo”: “Some village Hampden, who,
with dauntless breast, the little tyrants of
his meals withstood.” To that, I may
modestly claim, I can now ask title, my
rebellion being against the tyranny of the
pepper-pot, maintained at the present cost
of over £4 a pound for the product. For
years my action in reaching for the pot
came as natural as to wind my feet
around the chair-legs as a preliminary to
attacking my plate. The number of good
dinners I have ruined by absent-mindedly
shaking the thing too vigorously is be-
yond count. The bouts of sneezing I have
inflicted on myself and fellow-diners
thereby have resulted in the catapulting
mto the surrounding air of untold billions
of wogs. All that is ended. I renounce
this useless condiment, product, I believe,
of the colonies of England’s most ancient
the Pork and Beans. For I only
recently discovered that pepper is not so
ttmch a condiment as a habit. I’ll be
saving five bob an ounce for the stuff as
well as protecting my innards against
ulcers. For a week I went through the
usual motions of shaking the pot, bliss-
fully thinking I was scattering pepper
over my meat-an’-veg. Then I found it
had been empty for the entire week —I
was dining at home, of course. For those
who are courageous enough to join me
in this campaign, let me say at once that
the pangs of depriving oneself of pepper
is not fraught with the same gnawing
void as is accompanied by the renuncia-
tion, even temporarily, of beer or smokes.
“Good thing it was a whippy shaft.”
“Spasebo”: It isn’t happiness (B.
24/5/’5O) which produces spontaneous
singing; it is unhappiness. A happy
person doesn’t want to be more happy—
we don’t look round for the shilling we
know is in our pocket—so the happy
person doesn’t produce anything. It is
the unhappy person who produces some-
thing, and it may be a poem or a picture
or a burst of song or it may only be
self-pity. The Russians had a saying:
“When you English are unhappy, you
make for yourselves a machine; when
we Russians are unhappy, we make for
ourselves a song.” It isn’t only the
Russians who solace themselves with
singing. Welsh football-crowds take
sides just as much as ours do, but they
express themselves in magnificent choral
singing. From a distance a Welsh foot-
ball-ground on Saturday sounds like a
meeting of the local Philharmonics.
* * * *
“Sackville St.”: An erstwhile
honorable profession which seems to have
fallen on evikjdays is the ancient craft of
the bottle-oh. With slight reservations
“It'll be quicker if We Walk to the theatre than
to where I had to park the car.”
the bottle-oh was, in my youth, honor-
able in his dealings. For instance, a
ha’penny bottle always brought a
ha’penny if delivered into his hands; and
a ha’penny was an ice-cream. One go-
ahead vendor combined both businesses:
an ice-cream cost a ha’penny —or a bottle.
But the modern member of the leather-
lunged profession is a very shortsighted
businessman. Granted an audience
among the empties in the backyard, he
doesn’t follow the time-hallowed custom
of sorting the sheep from the goats and
giving a price for the lot; he stacks the
whole cargo into his chaffbag first —
twopenny lemonade-bottles, threepenny
quarts, and all the small beer such as
vinegar- and sauce-bottles and jam-jars
—then he feels in his leather moneybag,
takes out a sixpence and two pennies, puts
one penny back, and bestows the seven-
pence with the gracious air of a Nuffield.
Generally he just manages to reach the
cart with his burden before collapsing in
complete exhaustion. And so is lost
another client —to the delight of garbage-
men and of boy scouts raising funds for
a proposed scout-hall.
“Hattie Hop”: “Zake” (B. 24/5/’5O)
is correct in saying that timber merchants*
are wary of trees which have been grown
in private gardens. A silky-oak represent-
ing a potential fortune crashed from my
garden into a neighbor’s property, and it
cost me £l2 to have it hauled away from
his premises and put up into logs. My
father thought the silky-oaks he planted
would be worth a considerable amount
of money some day, but apparently not.
* * * ♦
“Feng-Shui”: Soekarno’s claim to
Dutch New Guinea (B. 31/5/’5O) on the
grounds that “since the Modjopahit Era
the Papuans have been considered poli-
tically and racially Indonesian” suggests
that the formation of a great national
myth is already in full blast in Java.
There is no doubt Modjopahit was a
great empire as empires
went in those days. It was
founded by Hindu invaders
round about a.d. 400. It
was sufficiently important
for the Flowery Kingdom to
send an expeditionary force
to chastise King Kertane-
gara for the impolite brand-
ing with hot irons of a
Chinese envoy, and in the
14th century its emperor,
Hayam Wurook, claimed
tribute from Bali, Aru,
Palembang i n Sumatra,
Tanjong Pura in Borneo,
Sumbawa, Ceram and the
Goram islands, but after
that East Java seceded, Hay-
am died, and his empire fell
to pieces. But who “con-
sidered” or even knew of
the existence of New
Guinea? Every question
concerning the aboriginal
inhabitants of Java is
clouded in controversy, and
most of the evidence regard-
ing the Hindu conquerors is
contained in their architec-
ture and carving. Brahmins
and Buddhists appear to
have flourished more or less
amicably together, despite
the bloodiness of their
annals, and both had a posi-
tive frenzy for building and
carving. They covered the
island with temples, shrines
and monasteries. Then the
Moslem Arabs came along
about 1400, and in their stern iconoclasm
wiped Modjopahit and her idolatrous
wickedness off the face of the land, and as
many of her monuments as they had time
and energy to demolish. The leadership
then passed to Mataram. By the evidence
of the stones the Hindu empire never got
effectively beyond Java. The Hindus
driven out by Islam retreated to Bali, and
went on with their carving and their
building and are still at it. But there
are few evidences of it in Sumatra,
Borneo, Malaya and the outer islands;
none whatever in New Guinea.
* $ * *
“X.S.”: The action of Judge Barry in a
Melbourne murder trial in postponing the
rising of the court in order to give jury-
men time to make themselves scarce in
case there was a little more shooting
suggests that the southern city is out to
beat Chicago and other U.S. towns for
underworld bashings, shootings and kill-
ings. A Texas story tells of the parson
who, uniting a pair in the bonds of holy
matrimony, came to the point where he
said to the bridegroom: “Do you take
this woman to be your wedded wife?”
“Say lady,” said the bridegroom. The
parson repeated the formula as laid down
in his prayerbook, and the threat was re-
peated with the addendum “or I shoot.”
The parson got in first by, through his
surplice, shooting the bridegroom. There
has been an average of one murder or
shooting a week in Melbourne for some
months past, but qp to date no judge has
felt obliged to draw first.
* * * *
“Brim”: Sorry, “Gramp” (B.
15/4/’5O), but the present Glenelg River
Scheme will not represent the first time in
Australia that a coastal river has been
turned inland. Works completed in 1930
turned the ,Glene!g waters inland to the
Wimmera storages, and are still in
service. The course followed by the 1930
channel is roughly the one scientists say
the Glenelg originally ran to the
Wimmera,
* * * *
“F.G.8.”: Those “artists” (B.
10/5/’5O) who delight to scrawl political
exhortations on walls and fences presum-
ably derive satisfaction from the thought
that their efforts are read by the general
public. I wonder what the Melbourne
scrawler who scribbled “Stop Gas Rise”
on a fence said when he saw the terse
advice “Eat Slowly” which was added a
few days later.
* ♦ * *
“Geeall”: In all modesty I claim at
least a place in the by-no-means-exclusive
coterie of “mad majors” in which both
first and second A.I.F. were prolific. Any
survivors of the eighty-odd Gyppos on the
strength of my Camel Transport platoon
in 1915 will doubtlessly hail me as the
original. Whilst supervising check roll-
call I noticed a batch of newly-arrived
Australian reos, among whom I knew was
my young brother, saunter over towards
the parade-ground. Surrendering to an
urge to show-off my fluency in the Gyppo
lingo, I took over the parade and
immediately ran the whole, gamut of my
vocal range in an impassioned declama-
tion of every single word of Gyppo I had
heard in my three Weeks with the unit.
The reos were visibly impressed, whilst
the Gyppo platoon registered dumb
amazement on its black and collective
countenance. Their consternation was
understandable, since the announcements
they heard in frenzied succession must, to
the best of a 35-years-old recollection,
have' gone something like this: “Stand at
ease”; “Sing us a song”; “Dismiss”;
“Goodday”; “I want a girl”; “Good
boys”; “Sweep the camel-lines” ; “It’s
cold tonight”; “One, two, three, four,
five” ; “Lift your feet.”
* * * •
“Old Crab”: Old Mick came over to
use the phone. After 40 minutes’ yam
on the front veranda he mooched off
down the path. My wife called after him:
“Didn’t you want the phone?” Back
came Mick to ring the ambulance to take
his wife to hospital. She jupt made it in
time for the arrival of their eighth.
* * * •
“Tom”: Love at first sight (B. 10/ 5 / ’5O)
brought highly-satis_factory wives to two
famous British soldiers and proconsuls—
Lord Dorchester and Sir Harry Smith.
Dorchester governed Canada during the
War of Independence and successfully de-
fended that province against an American
invading force. On a visit to England
he sued for the hand of Lady Anne
Howard, eldest daughter of the Earl of
Effingham. She turned him down, being
in love with his nephew. Shortly after-
wards her younger sister, Maria, noticing
her eyes were red, asked why she had
been crying and was told it was because
she had had to inflict pain on
and kindest man in the world.” “The
more fool you,” Maria answered, “I’d
jump at the chance of marrying him.”
Dorchester, being told of her remark,
promptly proposed to her and was
accepted. Sir Harry Smith met his bride,
a Spanish girl, when she fled to the British
officers’ quarters for protection from the
soldiers at the sack of Badajoz. She
accompanied him in the campaign in
Spain, and was also in camp with him
later when he won a notable victory in
India. Sir Harry was Governor of Cape
Colony 1847-52 ; Ladysmith was named
after his wife .
PROSPERITY INDEX.
“Stores selling live fish for pets report a business
vw who is there who’d seek or dare
N To moan of our condition,
Bewailing things of small .import
Such as our dollar position/
whv worry if some things are stiff—
No homes for those a-roommg—
.i/uon such glad news dispels the blues?
W S goldfish market’s booming.
what matters it if miners quit
Their work when coal is needed?
That there’s no gas then for the mass,
And losses are not heeded?
Thnueh firms and shops lose dough through stops
here’s still no need for glooming,
riad tidings come —and who d be glum ?
The goldfish market’s booming.
And you who’d dare now to declare
We’re heading for depression;
That things can’t last, bad times come fast,
Hard times will take possession;
That .costs will rise up to the skies,
Disaster’s closely looming,
When we can say that here today
The' goldfish market’s booming.
Why bother if the Commo threat
Assails our growing nation?
If floods come down and cattle drown
On ev’ry farm and station?
Our markets fail or there’s less ale?
Just think how things are blooming!
We’ll win out yet, for, don’t forget—
The goldfish market’s booming.
VICTORIA.
HACKO.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Solitude”: Seventyfiver was banging
at a stone wedged into his horse’s shoe
when the stranger came walking along
the bush track. “They told me Steve
Yates’s place is out this way somewhere,”
ventured the stranger diffidently. “Is it
much further on from here?” Seventy-
fiver paused in his operations. “ ’Bout
a mile,” he drawled. “Just keep on the
track till y’ run into the Dead Wombat,
then skirt round the right t’ the Tucker-
box. Go straight down inta the gully
' from there, an’ y’ll run into the Wild-
dog, then all y’ got t’ do is foller it t’
Steve’s place.” The bloke looked sud-
denly concerned. “Oh—er —I’m afraid
I'm not used to animals much. Perhaps
it would be better for me to wait at the
tuckerbox until someone comes.” “No
good y’ sittin’ on the Tuckerbox,” ex-
plained the old bloke. “Dave Carruther’s
semi is the only thing that runs over the
Tuckerbox these days, an’ like as not the
shortsighted cow’d miss y’. Yair, or y’
might get away into the bush. If y’ don’t
stick t’ the right-hand gully, y’ll come on
the Black-snake, and she’s pretty fierce
since the rains,” The stranger backed
off, mumbling something about it not
being the place he wanted after all.
“Well, this’s the Haunted Basin,” ex-
plained Seventyfiver, “an’ they’re all
Haunted folk once y* cross Cut-throat
Gully, where they chuck all the dead
Hey! .. . Hey! ” He stared for a minute.
“Well, look at that!” he grunted, re-
“I tell y' I never done it!"
turning to his nag’s hoof. “A bloke
goes t the trouble of explainin’ it to
’ m ’ an u the silly cow starts off
back where he come from.”
...... * * * . *
m ”h p P®BOJJg : Agree with “L.A.P.”
(B. 24/5/ 50) re the wedgetail’s value as
a winged rabbit-trap, but he is in error
in repeating the deep-rooted belief that
ours is the world’s largest eagle. David
rleay, when in U.S.A. not long back,
spent some time in the American Museum
of Natural History investigating the
matter, and with the scientific exactitude
characteristic of the man, tabled his find-
ings thus: (1) Steller’s Sea Eagle, of the
Behring coasts (Fleay considers this bird
weighs nearly twice the weight of the
average wedgie); (2) White-tailed Sea
Eagle of northern Europe and Asia; (3)
the rare Monkey-eating Eagle of the
Philippines; (4) the Wedgetail, of Aus-
tralia. The Golden Eagle of northern
tales follows, and not far behind it are
the Bald Eagle—Uncle Sam’s emblem —
and our own White-breasted Sea Eagle,
these two closely related. After that
come many lesser fowl, down to birds that
are true eagles but smaller than the larger
hawks; and possibly most of them are
shot sometimes because, no matter how
useful they may be, they belong to a
family some members of which have
now and then scragged a chicken.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Rooster”; Recent scientific research
into photoperiodism (the stimulus in
plants which determines the time of
flowering) should interest “Heresone”
(B. 24/5/ ’5O), It has been proved that the
flowering-time can be controlled by
changing the length of day. An autumn-
flowering plant can be made to flower at
mid-summer, providing the daylight is
artificially limited to about eight hours.
The inverse also holds good. There are,
of course, plants which are indifferent to
the photoperiodism theory. The tomato
is one. The cause of this phenomenal
behavior is still somewhat obscure, but
it is surmised that a substance, known
hypothetically as florigen, makes it
possible to graft leaves which have been
subjected to “short-day” treatment on to
a leafless “short-day plant” subjected to
long days, and produce flowers. This
has already been done in the case of
tobacco and soybeans. Bluebells, turnip-
weed and , yellow-box are among the
plants listed as indifferent to this pro-
cess,
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Salmon Gums”: A bloke who won’t
fight is chicken-hearted, and another who
doesn’t know when he’s licked is said
to have “a heart like a working bullock.”
I won’t have either simile. On the score
of courage you won’t find anything
much gamer than a chicken, and size for
size his heart is far and away bigger than
a bullock’s. If a simile is needed to
describe weak-heartedness, we have an
apt expression in “rabbit-hearted.” I
won’t have it that the rabbit’s a coward,
either, and he’s anything but a weakling,
but have you ever examined his heart?
A soft, deflated bag, far smaller than a
chicken’s, and seemingly incapable of
handling even the small supply of blood
which it is required to handle. For a
rabbit has very little blood. The blood
from a decapitated rabbit would scarcely
fill an egg-cup, and what there is doesn’t
gush forth like, for instance, that of a
cockerel. Yet that meagre lifestream,
pumped by that puny organ, can provide
the energy to propel its owner faster, for
a short distance, than almost any other
animal, and can account for some really
spectacular feats of strength. I’ve seen
a rabbit, when the bullet struck the ground
beneath him, leap five feet straight into
the air and hit the ground running. You
can work out how high a man would
leap to emulate that feat. Either the
supply of blood has no relation to sudden
bursts of strength, or a rabbit’s heart is
specially adapted for quick-pumping at
high-pressure.
* * * He
“Bo”: The good man, supremely opti-
mistic, was making one of his very occa-
sional visits to the outback farm in the
hope that Dad might yield to some gentle
“Pipe down , will you? They can't hear the drums."
persuasion to show up some day at kirk.
Dad, still a bit shaken from the accident
with the truck the day before, was full
of it. “Young Joe was drivin’,” he told
the parson. “We had ada a good
load on, an’ just before the bridge the
orf front-wheel goes down in a big pot-
hole. It chucks Joe orf the wheel. Be-
fore he could grab it back the truck hit
the bridge-rail an’ ploughed through.
Lucky it landed on its side or we’d ’a’
both bin killed. As it was they had to
chop us out o’ the cabin with an axe.”
“Remarkable,” remarked the parson.
“And, I trust, Mr. Husker, that after such
a truly providential escape you—er —did
the right thing.” Dad grinned. “My
oath!” he replied. “And I’d like to see
the look on the dials o’ them councillors
when the flamin’ letter I writ ’em comes
up at the shire meetin’.”
* * * ♦
“Vitilevu” (Fiji): The Fijians in Suva
are competing for the honor of having
the longest name. In April a native
policeman, holidaying in New Zealand
and also doing some work on ballistics,
was in the news there with a mere 46
letters in his surname. Two natives here
soon capped that with 51 and 59 in theirs.
At tune of writing a fresh record has
been established with 116 letters, and here
it is;
Lesumaibolataganeenanodraubulikojiojinai-
kaonokeiranadiilisapecikanalesutalemai m e i -
vukeniliuliuniyasanakolomaiviti.
* ♦ * *
“Wonk”: I was working near the
road and hadn’t been there long when
Sam came along in his tractor, “Just
going up to plough that top paddock o’
mine,” he said, stopping to yarn for a
minute. “Y’ can’t beat a tractor for
gettin’ a job like that done.” For the
next couple of hours I could hear him
roaring away in his top paddock; then
back he came, walking, and after a while
passed once more, leading a heavy
draught. I yelled an inquiry. “Aw, the
paddock’s too soft, an’ the damn’ tractor’s
stuck in one o’ them boggy places,” he
snorted. “Can’t tell them places are soft
till y’ get on ’em. Got to take old Jess
up to pull it out. Gripes, y’ can’t beat
a nag,” he added, rubbing the old mare’s
nose. “I wouldn’t trade Jess for half a
dozen blasted tractors.” An hour later
Sam went roaring homeward in the
tractor; then presently he walked up the
road once more, ostensibly to collect the
mare. Followed another period of peace,
and he reappeared, still on his own. “Now
the flamin’ nag’s stuck in one o’ them
glue-pots,” he roared. “Dunno why the
blamed idiot couldn’t look where she was
goin’. Man ought t’ sell her. Gripes,”
he growled, “it’s just as well as I got a
tractor t’ pull her out.”
♦ * * ♦
“M.S.”: Jonesy had booked his car-
penter, collected together enough material
for the new shed, but couldn’t buy any
nails. Hearing the carpenter had a stock
of them on hand, Jonesy tried him out.
“Course you’ll bring along the necessary
tools and nails when you start Monday
morning?” he remarked in a matter-of-
fact voice. “Took „
builder. “But not naik Vrf®? 4 Ae
nails/’ “Me!” j ones y s the
prised expression. “Now do Si a SUr '
you can’t build a shed without sUl y;
pointed out. “No more than naJs ’” he
without a hammer an’ things S Can
part of your equipment Tb > are
see? Wefl,
tools.” After a lenlSv Upply «>=
builder gave in, and at th^Tn™ 1 the
time arrived with all nails ra f ui|S >0 ‘^ <1
new shed progressed, and Ihree we^!
later was finished. Jonesy was very
pleased. “As nice a building as y’d wish
to see,” he announced proudly. “Come
right in and I’ll pay y’ for the work
you’ve done.” With the cash in his
pocket, the builder began collecting his
belongings for departure. Saws, planes,
etc., were all in the bag; then he seized
a hammer and attacked the new shed. As
the first board fell* Jonesy arrived with
a bellowed inquiry as to what the blazes
the other thought he was doing. “Just
getting my things,” returned the builder
placidly. “Can’t go without my tools,
y’ know. At my next job I might be
wanting all these nails of mine.”
* ♦ « *
“Zake”: It is generally supposed that
the red-back spider confines his activities
to such places as the comers of sheds
and garages and in old tins. But he
ventures afield in search of a favorite
titbit. Turned over a large pumpkin and
found one of the killers, far, it seemed,
from his usual haunts, but extremely well-
nourished. No, he hadn’t turned vege-
tarian. The underbelly of a pumpkin is
a favorite home of the cricket, which
ranks quite high on the arachnida’s menu.
♦ * * *
“F.A.M.”: The claim by “Kelms” in
these pages that a Westralian who, by skin-
ning and dressing a bullock in 4min. 40sec.,
put up a record, is hereby refuted. The
late Mick Slack, a Queensland Northern
Rivers identity, put a dent in the world s
record at Ramornie meatworks by doing
the job in 4min. 28sec. It was the same
Michael who, with bare knuckles, put
Baldy Thompson, professional Queens-
land middleweight boxer, to sleep.
« ♦ * *
“Betcha”: “Gravelsnatcher’s” success
in reading meaning into the star shapes
in a doze 18. 17/5/’5O) comes bang on
top of my overnight experience, a
scholarly old cove at the pub na
amused himself dishing out short wo
beginning and ending with the same
letters in correct order, and hurling
middle letters at me to find the ■
After a bit I tried hunting up a ew .. t
myself to confound him, but
success. I went to bed and dozed on
immediately. Hadn’t been domg mucn
work lately, I dreamed, with th
shred of consciousness. Bit lazy,
more vim, more pep, more very . £
V-e , . , Yes, must give that word to me
scholar bloke in the morning-
Middle letter “r.” Mustn t
mind repeated the word many tunes m
my sleep, and each time I stirredidnrg
the night it recurred. I didait:
the happening until the for
half spent, then I pulled
the word. Only thing that < of
was “verve.” Verve! Neve ma( j e
Verve! Silly. No such word
for a dictionary. p^ es ® t f t I ie night to
the sentences I’d used m Jr* a nd
impress the word °° ning was right,
hang it, my nocturnal conclusion
too. I give up. Only Jogi sensible
is that I’m a darned sight more
when I’m asleep.
WEBS OF BEAUTY.
Fairest of sights in Dame Nature’s adorning
Glitter the web’s that the spiders have spun,
Radiantly lit by the rime of the morning,
Gold with the kiss of the new-risen sun.
Over the sandhill we galloping riders,
Threading the sandal-bush, reckless and gay,
Shattered the toil of those brave little spiders,
Broke their bright rainbows and bore them
away.
Laughed when the silk took us up in its twining,
Cursed when a spider crawled over a cheek,
Gave not a thought to that careful designing.
Spared not a cheer for that work of a week.
Who can forget it, that tapestry woven
With stubborn insistence, with infinite art.
So lovingly builded, so carelessly cloven;
That wonderful network all riven apart?
Swiftly our band of gay riders is thinning,
But ever new threads on that sandhill are
drawn
Where still undefeated the spiders are spinning
Their shimmering shields in the dews of the
dawn.
SCOTLAND.
WILL H. OGILVIE.


“Sackfair”: Did somebody mention
scythes (B. 24/5/’50)? In my battle with
paspalum I decided to buy one of the
weird tools. At the first ironmonger’s-
shop I got the “Blime, Rip Van Wrinkle! ”
look, accompanied by: “Scythes?
Haven’t been able to get ’em for years.”
My next attempt brought from the
assistant addressed a “Yes, sir” —and he
slapped a packet of size before me! I’ve
always thought I spoke reasonably
coherently, but at four different shops I
was offered glue size, but not one had
scythes. Nearing the end of my'patience
I tried another shop: yes, they had a
scythe, but no snathes. I might get a
snathe up at Soansos. Better try there
first. “One’s no good without the other,
is it?” I returned the old gent’s smile,
agreed with him, and walked .out in a
mental willy-willy. What the devil was a
snathe? Perhaps it was a sharpening-
stone. At Soanso’s I asked for a scythe.
“I can only give you a snathe,” was. the
reply. I took a sporting chance. And
that’s how I came to be walking along a
city street looking like Father Time.
What is a snathe? That twisted-looking
handle like the late Harry Lauder’s walk-
ing-stick.
* * * *
“Jalna”: Can’t agree with “Wippe-
gong” (B. 24/5/’5O) that the skua-gull
breeds in the Arctic. It was in
the Antarctic that I came to know
and admire this unusual bird. Brown
in color, about the size of a domestic
fowl, with black legs and webbed
feet, dark beady eyes and slightly curved
beak, the skua is at home both in the
air and water. It nests in exposed places
which allow an uninterrupted view of the
surrounding country. The eggs are
usually two in number, brown with
darker brown and green blotches, incuba-
AS
<G
I think today I'd better just have—er —a glass of milk with something
in it."
turn being about three weeks. When
latched the chicks are surprisingly active,
within a few days a fight to the death
akes place, so .that one chick only is
Even if hand-reared, the chicks
ust be kept apart, otherwise fighting will
, on] y one chick remains. The
niH eaves the nest when about a week
r j aQ h ranges abroad under the watch-
t .eyes of the parent birds, which are
ways rea( jy to swoop on any intruder.
nii! en j. Y grown the skua shows a com-
Lv lsregarc * f° r the elements. Some
p been observed to fly unconcernedly
gainst winds of 70 m.p.h., and even fight
OQ g themselves while going through
their repertory of aerobatics under these
. Migratory in habit, their
arrival south in the spring coincides with
the whelping of the seals. They like
penguin eggs, swallowed whole, with an
occasional penguin chick snatched from
under the very beaks of the unwary
mothers. Immensely curious, fearless
and quite unafraid of man, these birds
command respect. Four of them made
our Christmas dinner in 1948, and their
flesh was like their character—tough.
* * * *
« u •* “A young couple making
sheep s eyes at each other,” Until I saw
the old expression in print I had never
realised how inapt it is. With the possible
exception of black sheep, I don’t know
any animal with less expressive or more
unattractive eyes than the pale irises and
long, narrow horizontal pupils of the
ovin, A horses or cow’s eyes can appear
to express something tender ; and a calf’s
soft, velvet orbs get very close to being
soulful. Canine eyes, of course, can smile
with friendliness, glare with hatred or
cloud in dreamy contentment; and
although a cat-lover could scarcely call a
feline’s eyes pretty, they do have ex-
pression, and the long, narrow pupils
running vertically are somehow more
attractive than the horizontal type. Up-
like his canine cousin the fox has long,
narrow pupils that cross the light-brown
irises vertically, but his eyes are rather
pretty, nevertheless. Possums’ eyes are
worthy of admiration: rich-brown
marbles, they are centred with jet-black
pupils that contract to less than an eighth
of an inch, in diameter when in a strong
light. There are dozens of other types of
eyes, some with expression, some with
beauty and some with both. But the coy
female would have to be hopelessly in
love if she could endure to be gaped at
with “sheep’s eyes”—providing, of course,
she is not a flighty young ewe.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: About lo o’clock that
morning young Fred came up the pad-
dock to Mac with word that Jordan, a
neighbor, had telephoned to say the
rabbit-inspector was heading Mac’s way.
Mac gave Fred certain instructions, then
parked his straining-gear by the corner
strainer and struck north through the
scrub. A half-hour- later young Fred
appeared in the utility. Mac got in and
Fred got out. The utility struck for the
Murrayville road and Fred headed back
for the house. In Murrayville Mac did
odd bits of business in the intervals of
ringing up the homestead. By telephone
he learned how the inspector first searched
the property for him, then went away
and returned by another road, went away
again, but was spied by young Fred
waiting under some pines on a hill that
commanded a view of Mac’s place. The
day passed, Mac met a few friends and
sundry drinks. About 5 p.m. a telephone
call informed him that “the old cow’s
gone this time.” Mac wavered out to
the ute, climbed aboard, and pointed her
nose for home. Two miles out the road
rounded a sandhill in deep scrub and
Mac, singing happily, took it on the
wrong side and collided with another
utility. Mac’s truck went over on its
side, trapping him in the cabin. The
other driver had to get a tyre-lever to
bust open the jammed door; then he put
his head in. Mac recognised him. “By
hell,” he roared, “y’re about the most
persistent cow of a inspector ever worked
in this districk,”
♦ * ♦ *
“S.H.H.”: The gang of crows were
holding a husking competition, working,
as usual, on the headland and outer row
of corn, when the big fellow came in
from the sea. Flying low and easily, and
working up the creek, he seemed to be
taking full advantage of any cover such
as oak and willow, yet not missing an
inch of ground. A clump of oaks hid
him from the mob at the corn until it
was too late for them to scatter. He
got one brigand before he’d even time
to squark; then hell broke loose. Quick-
ening his speed, he shot across the crop
with the victim in his talons, pursued
by the rest of the diving, obscenely yell-
ing carrion. Beyond clapping on yet
more speed and gaining altitude he took
no evasive action whatever until a couple
of spurwing plovers rocketed up at him.
CIOAK T?o om
"No, no, Chief! Only your hat and coat, old boy!”
Where the dives of Kelly’s cobbers hadn’t
come within a dozen feet, the spurwings
tried zooming and side-stepping, but the
big fellow clung to his dinner, and, out-
distancing the plovers, came to rest in a
big blackbutt about 200yds. from the
house. The bushrangers selected a dead
un near by and held a conference. Every
now and then a shower of feathers from
the ripping beak would bring frantic
circling and anguished vituperation from
the gallery. The husking was abandoned
—"-that sea-eagle did more in a few seconds
than I could do in a week with a gun.
Although their tucker is mostly tidal
offerings, these beautiful birds are quite
predatory, although it’s the first time I’ve
seen one make a meal of a crow.
* * ♦ ♦
“Mat’s Mate”: ’Twas a bitter night,
with sleet howling up from the south, as
we battled across the open plain towards
the lights of Deniliquin, seen fitfully
through the black storm. We’d said all
we had to say about getting caught in the
open before dark, which was largely due
to Mat’s determination to reach Deni.,
and we trudged along, feeling the icy wet
seeping through on to our shoulders,
backs and legs. We blundered into a
fence, got through it and went on. Then
Mat fell over something,’let out a biting
curse and investigated. It was one of
those empty 44gal. tar-drums from a
road job, evidently blown across the
plain and caught by the fence. Mat
kicked it viciously and it said, “Hey,
what’s up? Who’s that?” Investigation
disclosed the lower end of a bagman
sticking out, the upper half snuggled
inside the drum. “Rough night, mate,”
Mat said. “Too bloomin’ right,” boomed
the drum. “No night t’ be out in the
open!” We turned through the stream-
ing night and marched on.
* * * *
“Simon the Saddler”: The use of the
term “Mexican” as applied to saddlery
(B. 24/5/’5O) is very loose. The
few saddles of the type seen here are
either originals or copies of the American
stock-saddle, the Mexican variety being
of a cheaper type. The stirrup-leathers
of both these have to be about Sin. wide
to fill out the wide bearing and evenly
support the shaped wood stirrup. The
stirrupi-leather bar of our stock-saddles
provide for Hin. straps, and this width
would be only suitable for metal irons.
When we make an odd “Mexican”
saddle they all carry the accepted cow-
boy mountings, but they could not be
fitted to our stock-saddles.
♦ * * *
“Billy T.”: The current picture
“Malaya” draws to a close with American
troops singing “There Is a Tavern in
the Town” in the company of troops
who, because they are wearing slouched
hats, are supposed to be Australians.
Nice of Hollywood to remember the
Diggers were there, but the lids in the
movie are as much like the Digger’s hat,
as worn by him, as my milking-hat is
like Farouk’s fez. Strange that that un-
promising area of fur felt, issued to so
many units, takes on an aggressive
swagger only after being bashed into some
shape favored by a southern head. A
party of 50 Diggers will sport lids with
50 sorts of dents, twists and angles, but
not one could be mistaken for anyone
but an Australian. Best sight in Calcutta
was to see the pukka sahibs, issued with
fur felts for the tropics, pedalling from
their villas to sweat—with the aid of
the char wallah—through the heat in one
of the suburban supply units. On a
heavy black bike—English, old boy, of
course—safari-jacket with three pips or
a crown up, Bombay bloomers flapping
about white knees, gleaming boots
(plenty servants), a front carrier on the
grid with a Dachshund pup in it and all
surmounted by a slouched hat, squat and
square on the head as though still on
the dummy in the officers’ shop; and
when from this ludicrous mobile pedestal
the unsmiling sahibs returned the flashing
salutes of smart native n.c.os. the crack
in the hat seemed to stretch in a sly grin.
Strange, too, that so few artists can catch
the character of the hat that enhances
lean jaws, crinkly eyes, weather-beaten
dials; Cecil Hartt had it to perfection,
and Scorfield can put it on paper, too ;
so can Lusby. But most of the other
black-and-white men always draw it as
though it’s just emerged from the store.
* * * »
‘Kawhia”; New Zealand’s latest pest,
the wasp Vespus gemanica, is likely to
prove a serious menace to stock in rough
backblock areas. A cow and a horse in
our Te Kuiti district were both done to
death in a few minutes after presumably
stepping on nests. A mob of cattle on
the road was stampeded by stings, and
when eventually rounded up needed
three days’ spell before they were fit to
travel again. It seems likely that some
unlucky bulldozer-driver is in for a tough
time one of these days, as the little yellow
boys won’t be interfered with. In 1948
the only known nest in the district was
24 miles away by road. The local crop
spread from this, and it is spreading
fast.
* * * »
“The Bunyip”: In an English gardening
magazine which reaches me at the end
of a long pilgrim age-all its previous
readers being more easily stirred to
emulation and therefore prior to me on
the list —I’ve been jolted to attention by
an article on the propagation of mistle-
toe. That’s what I said —propagation ;
they grow the accursed stuff. Bonfire-
night, just over, owed its success in no
small measure to the fact that I’d had to
get up my nearer gums and hack off all
infested limbs to save the trees, and any
galoot who “crushes fresh mistletoe-
berries into a fresh slit in the bark, and
binds them down with soft material”
(that’s the method favored) does so at the
risk of being the central figure in the
next bonfire. Around here we have one
kind on box and ironbark, another on
bloodwood, a different one on the river-
oaks and a fourth on the paperbarks ;
victims of all types stand as stark evidence
of their voracity, the gaunt trees made
more desolate by the gnarled, knobby
remains of the parasite itself, like insati-
able claws clutching for more. All these
types are camouflaged to resemble their
hosts —don’t ask me why—the mistletoe-
bird finds them all and spreads them all
with equal ease, and I’ve seen a mass
of voided berries on the twigs beneath a
nest sprouting enough tiny green roots to
spell the ruin of a forest. “Mistletoe,
famous in folklore and legend, an indis-
pensable item of Christmas decoration,”
forsooth! A better emblem in this clime
would be a 20-pound watermelon—though
not necessarily suspended by a string
over the doorway.
THE MIRACLE OF NORFOLK
ISLAND.
Swiftly the black clouds swept
In from the sea,
Darkening the hollowed hill.
We hungry men who crouched
At our traps of light
Sprang to the kill,
Striking the settling birds;
Silent as death—
This was no time for words.
Had we not scanned the sea
Day after day,
Hunger and aching eyes
Mocked by the ship that lay
Fast on the reef?
Till, shocked from despair,
In awe we stood
As life winged in
Through the unwatched air.
Nightly, week after week,
Those birds of providence came
Blindly to seek
Their homes in the hill;
Nightly in desperate need
We crept to the kill.
We lived. But now . . .
What dreams of anguished calling,
Sleep thick with birds
In feathered darkness falling.
tasmania.
A. E. STURGES.


/
r?
Safeguarding EstdtG IH VGSt HIGfltS
demands this specialised knowledge
■FAMILIARITY with legal requirements,
A investment values, taxation and property
details is a paramount responsibility of the
Executor or Trustee charged with the duty of
administering an estate involving commercial
or pastoral interests. Such knowledge is far
beyond individual capacity.
The Union Trustee Company is well qualified
by nearly 65 years’ experience to accept this
responsibility, and will act either jointly with,
or in place of, those who seek relief from such
onerous tasks. Charges are moderate ; service
is most comprehensive.
You are invited to call —or write for a copy of "Important
Facts Concerning Wills, Executors, Trustees.
the UNION TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF
AUSTRALIA LTD.
«... _ ’ (Incorporated In Victoria) Established 1885
333 Collins St., Melbourne; 2 O’Connell St,Sydney; 398-402 Queen St,Brisbane; and at Aibury,Townsville,Toowoomba and
The only Trustee company having offices each with its own Board of Directors and management in three States Victoria, New South Wales and Queens an
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Mutual Life and Citizens
Ordinary Life Department.
Ex- Written Added
Dec.. Income.! Claims.* penses. Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
To staff fund, £20,802 .. •• 1
1944.. 4,000,659 1,462,951 321,076 50,000 )
Profit on Sale of Securities, £2216.. J
2,148,046
To staff fund, £23,239 .. ..1
1945.. 4,426,125 1,917,038 370,613 61,765 )
2,063,500
To staff fund, £25,773 .. ••]
1946.. 4,960,951 1,996,067 530,448 5,959 1
Add exchange premium on net over- |
3,090,240
sea assets, £687,536 .. .. J
To staff fund, £43,555 .. .• I
1947.. 5,662,219 1,983,579 654,572 16,425 )
2,964,088
1948.. 6,348,235 2,220,456 764,279 7,594 )
To staff fund, £34,679 .. .• 5
3,321,227
1949., 7,049,512 2,225,973 819,308 8,276 )
To staff fund, £82,964 .. ..i )
3,962,991
• Includes shareholders’ proportion of profits.
! After deducting taxes.
Industrial Life Department.
Ex- Written Added
Dee., Income.! Claims.* penses. Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
To staff fund, £12,111 .. .. ; 1
1944.. 2,031,637 430,456 460,180 1
Loss on sale of securities, £2344..]
1,126,546
To staff fund, £13,255 .. .. 1
1945.-2,270,205 674,015 495,201 1,474 )
To general reserve, £50,000 ..J
1,136,260
To staff fund, £13,839 .. ..1
To general branch, £30,000
1946.. 2,424,619 716,859 541,534 2,738 j-
Add exchange premium on net over- [
1,530,512
sea assets, £410,368 .. .. j
To staff fund, £22,270 .. ..(
1947.. 2,669,908 808,350 622,52912,043 )
1,204,716
1948.-2,910,499 981,097 674,311 5,958 )
To staff fund, £16,989 .. .. )
1,282,144
1949.. 3,119,500 1,026,795 712,765 7,215 )
To staff fund, £15,425 .. .. 5
1,357,300
* Includes shareholders’ proportion of profits,
t After deducting taxes.
The chairman’s claim that “the M.L.C.
has maintained its favorable position
among its contemporaries” is well sup-
ported by the published accounts. These
disclose very satisfactory and encourag-
ing figures in all those matters upon
which soundness and progress depend.
The co. has shared fully in the extra-
ordinary post-war growth of life assur-
ance, the size of the business —ordinary,
industrial and accident contracts written
in Australia, New Zealand, Canada and
Britain —having practically doubled over
the last seven years.
The amount of new business put on
the books last term was a record
£31,715,558 (up £367,636), of which
£23,176,132 (up £67,143) was ordinary
and £8,639,426 (up £30,494) industrial.
The average amount per policy was £4lB
ordinary and £lOl industrial, compared
with £350 and £63 respectively in 1943.
After deducting taxes (£190,527), the
year’s income from all sources was
£914,051 stronger at £10,389,857 —
£8,256,044 (up £710,743) premiums and
£2,131,813 (up £243,308) interest, divs.,
etc. After paying claims (£3,167,015),
which were well within actuarial expec-
tation, and exes. (£1,605,625), upon which
the management has always kept a tight
hold, £5,615,217 remained. Of this last-
mentioned amount £5,320,291 was added
to assurance funds in the ordinary and
industrial departments, £38,192 was sent
to reserves in the general section, £15,728
was used to further write down the book
value of securities, etc., £49,339 was sent
to the staff fund, and £191,667
(19.16 p.c. on capital) was paid to share-
holders in dividends in respect of 1948.
The div. for 1949 was raised to 20 p.c.
The assurance funds also benefited by
a fortuitous addition of £734,207 on
account of an increase in the book value
of overseas assets, following devaluation
of the £ in terms of the U.S. and
Canadian dollars. Total additions to the
assurance funds was thus £6,054,498, rais-
ing them to £60,511,754, which also has
the support and assistance of £1,191,000
of general and taxs reserves that belong to
policy-holders, too.
The surplus available for distribution
increased by £53,633. That was after
making a larger-than-usual provision for
actuarial liabilities and contingencies and
valuing those liabilities at a stringent 2}
p.c. on ordinary and 2 p.c. and 2\ p.c. on
participating and non-participating in-
dustrial contracts:
Surplus.
1946. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Ordinary .. 928,621 1,038,161 1,163,267 1,207,347
Industrial .. 158,924 168,979 178,757 188,310
Total ..1,087,545 1,207,140 1,842,024 1,395,657
Other pleasing features of the accounts
are arrest of the drift in the net rate of
interest earned and a slight improvement
in the expense ratio, despite the upswing
of costs generally and the large amount
of new business written. After deducting
taxes the net return on the mean assur-
ance funds was £3 13s. sd. (up 3d.) p.c.
Exes, made off with 14.79 p.c. of net
premiums in the O.D. and 27.29 p.c. in
the 1.D., an improvement of 0.51 p.c. and
0.36 p.c. respectively. It all augurs well
for improved bonus rates to policy-holders
later on.
Outstanding feature of balance-sheet
figures is the widening spread of invest-
ments :
1948. p.c. 1949. p.c.
Govt, aecuritiest £46,398,492 77.9 £47,843,152 72.5
Mortgages, etc... 8,181,408 13.7 10,878,584 16.5
Loans on policies 1,588,866 2.7 1,690,413 2.6
Cash, book debts,
etc 735,123 1.2 846,333 1.8
Property.. .. 402,350 0.7 564,842 0.8
Debentures, etc. 460,833 0.8 809,521 1.2
Shares .. .. 1,761,200 3.0 8,403,724 6.1
£59,528,272 £66,033,159
Liabilities* .. 1,862,722 2,282,512
Net assets ~£57,665,550 £68,750,647
f Includes municipal and public bodies. * Other than
under policies.
To help arrest the drift in the interest
rate —the margin here has been one of
the chief sources of profit or surplus iq
the past —more attention is now being
given to mortgages (largely through co-
operative building societies with Govern-
ment guarantee) and to industrial securi-
ties, which yield a better return than is
to be had from Government paper. Last
term £2,697,126 was added to mortgages,
£1,642,524 to shareholdings (which almost
doubled) and £348,688 to debentures, etc.
Government securities (up £1,444,660) are
still the backbone of the portfolio, and
likely to remain so. Altogether the figures
are a pointer to the important part life
assurance plays in the national economy.
Wunderlich, Ltd.
t Dividends
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit.* 7 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.t
£ £ £ £ £
6-7 p.c.
1942.. 68,957 10,699 6 p.c. =26,400 31,858 106,821
To staff partners, £lO,OOO .. •• 96,821
1943.. 56,531 10,697 6 p.c. =26,400 19,434 116,255
To staff partners, £lO,OOO .. .. 106,255
7 p.c.
1944.. 64,488 11,200 7 p.c. =30,800 22,488 128,743
To staff partners, £14,600 .. ..114,143
1945.. 54,386 11,200 7 p.c. =30,800 12,386 126,529
To staff partners, £11,750 .. .. 114,779
1946.. 60,826 11,200 7 p.c. =BO,BOO 18,826 133,605
To staff partners, £9400 .. .. 124,205
1947.. 63,744 11,200 7 p.c. =30,807 21,737 145,942
To staff partners, £lO,BOO .. .. 135,142
1948.. 88,988 11,200 9i p.c. =41,838 35,950 171,092
To staff partners, £10,600 .. .. 160,492
1949.. 95,669 11,200 9J p.c. =41,857 42,512 203,004
To staff partners, £12,750 , ~ 190,254
Share premiums, £53,268 .. .. 248,522
1950.. 98,652 11,200 10 p.c.=46,213 41,239 284,761
To staff partners, £13,600 .. ..271,161
* After payment divs. on staff-partnership certifi-
cates ( £5607, 1950). t After deducting goodwill
( £78,888).
Wunderlich’s is a sound, progressive and
forward-looking undertaking which feeds
the building trade with terra-cotta roof-
ing tiles, architectural facings, asbestos
cement (durabestos) sheets, shop fronts,
showcases and pressed-steel partitions,
etc., turned out from factories in all
States of the Commonwealth. The pro-
ducts are, of course, subject to price-con-
trol, but demand for them has run well
ahead of production since war ended, and
the lag in home and other building is not
likely to be overtaken for some years yet.
Production has been, and still is, limited
by the availability of labor and materials,
etc.
Earnings have stepped along with the
growth in building activity. Here is a
comparison of the value of building
permits issued in metropolitan areas
throughout the Commonwealth:
* Monthly Averages.
6 Mths.
, Year Ended June N Dec.,
1939. 1947. 1948. 1949. 1949.
£OOO. £OOO. £OOO. £OOO. £OOO.
Sydney .. 1,111 1,768 1,706 2,089 2,302
Melbourne .. 702 1,196 1,650 1,804 1,960
Brisbane .. 171 455 567 610 782
Adelaide .. 192 879 418 664 654
Perth .. 145 187 238 838 858
Hobart .. 82 100 119 172 205
Six capitals .. 2,358 4,084 4,687 5,577 6,161
* Permits issued by local-government authorities,
excluding Government buildings.
There has also been a lot of home and
other building on Government account.
The nigger in the homebuilding wood-
pile is costs, now 200 p.c, or more above
pre-war level, and still rising—the re-
percussions will be felt when the value of
money appreciates.
After deducting divs. (£5607, up £1082)
on staff-partner’s certificates, allowing a
generous £63,377 (up £1449) for deprecia-
tion and something for taxation and
obsolescence, Wunderlich’s profit stepped
up by £3083, reaching £98,652 last term.
That covered pref. divs. and 18,9 p.c. on
ord, capital as against 19.1, 17.6, 11.9, 12.2
and 9.8 p.c. back to 1945. These attractive
ratios, among other things, reflect the
quality of the control. The div. was lifted
from 91 p.c. to 10 p.c., the average dis-
tribution over the last 11 years being 7.6
p.c., compared with an average of 5.9 p.c.
and 11.9 p.c. for the two preceding 10-
year periods. Of the £41,239 of the
year’s profit that remained, £13,600 was
allotted to staff partners, the balance lift-
ing reserves £271,161 in excess of good-
will (£73,888).
To help finance the bigger trading and
further expansion of productive capacity,
106,833 new £1 ords. were issued at a pre-
mium of 10s. each in October, 1949:
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital.. £600,200 £600,400 £600,600 £707,335
Creditors, etc. 267,031 285,467 )
Tax reserve .. 155,480 199,325 J
464,372 631,669
Staff funds .. 90,560 93,550 104,500 115,400
Freeholds .. 342,315 365,701 365,132 376,218
Plant, etc. .. 193,192 204,417 217,442 242,038
Stocks .. 865,465 419,824 424,380 616,560
Book, debts .. 160,659 176,221 192,993 285,007
Cash, invest-
ments, etc. 209,405 209,156 210,340 195,530
* Including tax provision.
The new share and premium moneys, to-
gether with an extra £67,297 from out-
siders, went into stocks (up £192,180),
book debts (up £42,014), freeholds (up
£21,086) and plant (up £24,596). Allow-
ing for final divs., the more or less liquid
surplus (£360,240) was £133,554 stronger.
With one eye on the possibility of a lift
in the div., the market prices the ords. at
535. 3d. (41s. a year ago), giving an
immediate return of 3.7 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis, or 4.5 p.c. should the rate be
increased to 12 p.c. At 325. the first and
second prefs. each return 4.3 p.c. There
has been qp business in the thirds for
some time. Net tangible cover is
£24 9s. 3d. firsts,. £23 9s. 3d. seconds,
£ll 4s. Bd. thirds and 295. lid, ords.
Anthony Hordern and Sons (Sydney)
, Dividends , To Nominal
pref. Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. 5.8 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.!
£ £ £ £ £
1941..111,782 43,594 5 p.e.= 62,500 5,638 94,086
1942. .110,353 43,594 5 „ „ 62,500 4,259 98,345
1943. .109,257 43,594 5 „ „ 62,500 3,163 101,508
1944. ,111,385 43,594 5 „ „ 62,500 5,291 106,799
Reserves.
Surplus after revaluing plant, £316,153
Goodwill (£278,153) written off .. ■
To depreciation reserve, £43,000
106,799
1945. .114,761 43,594 5 p.c. = 62,500 8,667 115,466
• 5.9 p.c.
1946. .119,735 44,297 5$ „ „ 68,750 6,688 122,154
6 p.c.
1947. .145,704 45,000 6 „ „ 75,000 25,704 147,858
1948. .158,868 45,000 6 „ „ 75,000 38,868 186,726
From tax reserve, £50,000 .. .. 286,726
1949. .150,172 45,000 6 „ „ 75,000 80,172 266,898
1950. .125,374 45,000 6 „ „ 75,000 5,374 272,272
! Subject to goodwill, etc., £273,153 until 1944.
§ Excluding depreoiation reserve, etc. (now
£433,988).
The contraction of £24,798 in the latest
profit figure of this big universal provider
reflects, for the most part, the ill-effects
of inflation, which has not yet run its
course, upon the cost of conducting busi-
ness. The co. has an able management,
alive to its problems, and has won a wide
reputation for quality anH „
handles practically II
under the broad th u at fal k
including machinery, hafdw a S f f handise »
softgoods and fashion ry8 ° ods >
trade accounts for a good Si? Coantr y
turnover The co.'s prfwem f “ 1*•
fore, wider and more numerous and here '
plicated than those of most other re i C ,° m '
Last term goods generally caml re-
ward in better volume, and^e” J-u
have grown apace since war ended * h
showed a “substantial” S?
trouble is that wages are an eW The
costs as well as income and T* 6nt of
happens, costs win the racelfn lhThn Y
run. Increases in the basic wa?? , 8 '
added nearly £99,000 to the year’? m ° Q n
total. As the effects of
lifts snowball through the
the cost of everything is C nn2 on ! y
being sharpened, until fhe last pS™
becomes worse than the first. £
whole set-up is aggravated by the 40 h
week seller's market for labor C Z
of electric power, heavy GovernS
bleeding, official pruning of gross maS
on lines still subject to price control S
delays and extra handling caused by
industrial disputes. y
The profit (£123,374) was written after
valuing stocks on a conservative basis
and allowing a generous £86,981 (£ls«m
for depreciation and unspecified amount
Th. nd Ot S Agencies.
The £123,374 was 6.2 p.c. on the
£2,000,000 of share capital—£7so 000 of
it carries a cumulative p.c., subiect tn
the N. S. Wales Interest Reduction Act-
compared with 7.5, 7.5, 7.2, 5.9, 5.7 and
5.5 p.c. back to 1944. An all-round
6 p.c. was distributed for the fourth year
in succession. For the eight years to
1945 the ords. received a steady 5 pc
and the prefs, a regular 5.8 p.c in
addition to the £272,272 of free reserves
shown in the table, there are specific pro-
visions of £388,988 for depreciation and
of £45,000 for alterations, some of which
might be genuine profit.
The year’s net addition of £100,538 to
stocks and of £61,052 to book debts
reflect bigger trading and rising prices,
while further brightening of the store and
extension of factory facilities show up in
a net growth of £71,450 in freeholds, etc.,
and of £32,771 in plant, etc.:
1948. 1949. 1960.
Ord. capital .. £1,250,000 £1,250,000 £1,250,000
Pref. capital .. 750,000 750,000 750,000
Mortgages .. 200,000 300,000
Creditors, etc. .. 758,037 765,482 879,050
Tax reserves .. 399,138 279,671 212,114
Freeholds and lease-
holds .. .. 1,112,305 1,132,628 1,204,078
Plant,, etc. .. 409,813 442,717 475,488
Stocks .. .. 1,676,379 1,782,346 1,882,884
Book debts .. 358,395 601,281 562,333
Cash, etc 73,615 60,086 82,647
To meet the year’s outlay £lOO,OOO was
added to the mortgage and £113,574 to
the amount coming to sundry creditors,
etc. There was a slip of only £12,866
in the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£1,085,694), due to the outlay on fixed
assets.
Since the close of accounts sales have
increased, and so have costs, the seller’s
market for some lines has disappeared,
and buyers are becoming more discrimi-
nating. Encouraging features are the high
level of employment and incomes, especi-
ally of primary producers, and growth of
population, hastened by the influx ot
migrants. And there are hopes that the
Government will grant a little relief from
the burden of company taxation, as well
as recognise the fall in the value of money
by bringing the official allowance tor
depreciation more into line with curren
business practice. Maintenance ot
6 p.c. div. will depend largely upon the
relative levels of costs and turnover.
Price of the ords. dropped from in-
9d. to 255. in the market following
publication of the accounts. At the lower
figure the return is 4.8 p.c. on a P- •
div. basis. On the same basis the preU
at 275, Id., yield 4.4 p.c Net ang.ble
cover is £3 18s, 7d. prefs, and
ords.


DAVIES & OOLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone: MX 2208.
m t s
“*4
fa
&
n
'Stoat
S?<S>
S.SS
i mt
Capstan's own
blend of Fine
Virginia Leaf is
Flavoured by
Nature and
Mellowed by
TIME.*
That's why it's always —
TIME FOR A
CAPSTAN
‘ THE EMPIRE'S FAVOURED CIGARETTE
TBBD~g.SQ
The
Mutual Life and
Citizens' Assurance
Co., Ltd.
Martin Place and Castlereagh
Street. SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is,no better way of pro-
viding cash for your family, or
for yourself when you retire,
than by taking out a policy with
The M.L.C.
Assets Exceed £65,000,000,
Annual Income Exceeds
£10,500,000.
M. C. Alder, A.1.A., Gen. Manager.
Malcolm Reid & Co., Ltd.
. Profit, 'pref. ’ord' 1 serves,
if- £ p.c. p.c. £ £
1943. .11,021 6 10 6,700 51,513
1945! !i0,’ 515 6 12 50’ ,490
o4’oM e 12 9,000 82,55!
i94B.’.’ss,’2i7 o 12 9,000 106,776
aViiding expenditure, £6400.. i 00,376
33 ’ 371 6 17 14>8 °;
AdLid?basfd m furnitum retail-
Ad t±r e w d hi U h r has a branch
mg business, wmcn nas a orancn
in Bourke-street, Melbourne, as
well, has made the most of the
unusual opportunities mat
cropped up in me post-war
P«‘? d : To I meet the sellers
market, extra piemises were
opened m 1946 ; turnover and
profits have jumpe ahead, and
most of the beneht has been
passed into reserves.
Established as a furniture-
manufacturing business 70 years
ago, Malcolm Reids switched to
importing and retailing early this
century. Steady progress was
interrupted by the slump of the
early ’thirties, but just before
the recent war the co. was
spreading its wings again. The
main store in Rundle-street,
Adelaide, had been joined by
the Melbourne store, and this
was extended in 1939. The post-
war addition is a shop in the
old Kither building in King
William-street, Adelaide, which
has been handed over to a new
subsidiary, Reids, Ltd., trading
separately to give a more diverse
selling appioach.
Turnover (amount not stated)
was a record last term, and the
balance-sheet suggests that
credit business is coming into
its own again. Debtor balances
rose by nearly 50 p.c. to £61,355,
while 3. contraction of £16,782
“ , stocks, despite generally
higher prices, signifies a cautious
buying policy by the board. Re-
!!i n ! d f u Profi i S w f e enou Bh to
meel: me net outlay on current
assets and to repay bank over-
draft: *
Paid capital- 1947 ' 1948> 1949 ‘
•• £20,000 £20,000 £20,000
ordinary . 65,000 80,000 80,000
Bank overdraft e,488 ie,i67
22,000 - _
tax .. 69,775 82,249 86,174
Freehold^.. 135,493 94,906 94,900
ggy v MM s.ooo t.sss
subsidiary 24,995 24,995
.. «.*»| iw.«J 120,710
cash, rood, 22,092 lo’ao, nloei
At balancing-date, liquid assets
(including shares) exceeded lia-
bilities by £119,803 (more than
paid capital), being a net growth
of £11,839 for the 12 months.
Nearly all last year’s extra
business went in offsetting higher
costs and official cuts in the
profit margins for furniture and
floor-coverings. Net profit, at
£33,371, was £154 better than in
1948, after allowing £27,000 for
taxation (up £100) and some-
thing for depreciation, bad
debts, etc. After meeting pref.
commitments, the result was
39.1 p.c. on ord. capital em-
ployed, as against 49,2, 35 and
31.1 p.c. in the three preceding
terms. To the previous 12 p.c.
dividend was added another Is.
a share, labelled bonus, making
17 p.c. for the year.
On the basic 12 p.c. dividend,
yield from the £1 ords. at 545.
is 4.4 p.c.; with a repetition of
the bonus, yield would be 6.3
P-c., and the shares have 495. 9d.
net asset backing according to
Cerent term’s result
be a race between turnover
on the one hand and still higher
costs and lower profit margins
e n the othe K r : fln ? „c,a ly the co.
has never been in better shape
to meet a return of keener trad-
; n(T
ln L ~
The well protected and closely
held 6 p.c. prefs. would yield
4.6 p.c. on last week’s buying
price of 265.
Mt. Isa (Q.) '
Both shareholders and the
market were surprised by the
decision of Mt. Isa not to pay
an interim div. for the current
term, which runs out at the end
of this month, A contraction in
throughput of crudes, with a
consequent drop in out-turn of
silver-lead bullion and zinc con-
centrates, the fall in metal
prices, continued rise in costs
and accumulation of stocks,
owing to rail and shipping diffi-
culties, have been the co.’s chief
troubles since the close of last
accounts. Although enough
profit has been earned to pay a
moderate div., the co. has a big
programme for erection of
workers’ dwellings, financed
entirely out of profits, as well as
a large new plant project, on
hand.
For the six months to end
Dec., 1949, sales of metals, less
realisation charges, brought in
£2,407,254, as against £6,013,700
for the preceding 12 months.
Total income for the six-month
period was £2,440,816, of which
exes, (they include £200,000 for
depreciation, £303,737 taxation
and £318,314 lead bonus to em-
ployees) gobbled £1,916,019. The
profit was thus £494,797, equal
to £989,594 for a full year, or
20.1 p.c. on capital. For the
year to June 30, 1949, the profit
was £1,457,337, or 32.7 p.c. on
capital, as against 19.6 p.c. and
25.8 p.c, for the two preceding
terms. Divs. were 25 p.c. 1949,
17 p.c. 1948 and a maiden 10
p.c. 1947.
Output is sold mostly to U.K.
and Continental buyers, and
partly in the U.S. and local mar-
kets. In the U.S. market, which
is the dominating factor in world
metal prices today, the figure
for lead dropped from a peak
of 21i cents per pound in 1949
to 101 cents in March, 1950.
Corresponding figures for zinc
were 17} cents and 9| cents per
pound respectively. Each one-
cent variation in the U.S. price
is equivalent to about £lO per
ton in Australian currency at the
current rate of exchange. The
London price of lead has fluc-
tuated between £SI24 10s. per
ton at the beginning of 1949 and
£SB6 7s. 9d. for April, 1950.
Zinc dropped from £SIO6 per
ton in Jan., 1949, to £S63 10s.
eight months later, and then rose
again, reaching £S92 18s. lid.
for April, 1950. Locally the
figure is fixed by Government
edict at £A3S per ton for lead
and £A4O per ton for zinc.
When the new copper plant,
important sections of which are
not expected to be on the site till
mid.-1951, gets into full swing,
it is scheduled to turn out 1500
tons of blister a month, and
promises to be a substantial
contributor to profits. Mean-
while, earnings will depend upon
the treatment of silver-lead-zinc
ore and upon the level of metal
prices and costs, which are still
rising; and there is a lot of
money represented by plant, etc.,
that is not yet earning anything.
The price of the co.’s f.-p.
pound shares, which touched 445.
in 1949, dropped from 425. to
38s. 6d. following last week’s
announcement concerning the
interim div.
A plea for substantial
tax reduction
A plea for a substantial reduction in taxation,
even if part of the reduced amount was
temporarily withheld from circulation, was
made by Sir Clive McPherson, chairman of
Younghusband Ltd., at the annual meeting.
Sir Clive McPherson said that the
greater part of Victoria and Riverina
faced the most prosperous season for
many years.
“Our turnover has exceeded that
of our record last year, and prices
Of stock are again higher than at any
previous period.
“Good seasons and good prices
for wool and wheat are the basic
factors in bringing about present
conditions.
“Again I feel it opportune to
express a note of warning, as ex-
pe-ience of the past has proven
that such conditions do not last
indefinitely.
Increased Capital
“The increased capital subscribed
during the year by the issue of
250,000 shares at 27/6, offered to
shareholders in the proportion of two
shares for every five held, has meant,”
he said, “the addition of £250,000 to
capital and £93,750 to reserves which
are used in the business.
“The authorised capital of the
company is now £1,250,000, of which
£875,000 is paid up, and reserves
stand at £405,000.
“While our balance-sheet figures
now before you show substantial
liquid resources, I would point out
that prepayments for wool purchased
at current auction sales and which
are shown in our accounts pending
disbursement, reach large amounts,
and accordingly the amount of our
own liquid resources is not so large
as the figures show.
“The continuous expansion of the
company’s business justifies the addi-
tional capital, and the directors are
confident that it can be usefully
employed.
Increased Costs
“The outstanding feature in
industry in all sections today is the
matter of increased costs, and which
at the moment appears the greatest
problem facing the community.
“In the rural industries extreme
taxation has brought about extrava-
gant expenditure on items which are
allowable deductions, to the extent
that such items as repairs and reno-
vations to fencing are costing up to
three times and even more in some
instances than they cost in 1939,
“In effect, costs do not count,
provided they are an allowable deduc-
tion, and shortage of rural labour has
accentuated this outlook.
Reduce Taxation
“In addition, extreme taxation is
precluding the putting aside of
reserves which in such periods as the
present have proven a most necessary
provision.
“It was only by substantial reserves
held by institutions and individuals
in the years 1928-1938 that many
were enabled to carry on, otherwise
the disastrous experiences in that
period would have been much more
severe.
“It has been stated by Mr. Colin
Clark, the well-known Queensland
economist, that a study of the history
of other countries over long periods
of time reveals that when taxation
exceeds 25 per cent, of the national
income it becomes impossible to resist
inflationary pressures, and at that
point incentive to real effort is
greatly weakened on the part of all
classes.
“According to the Commonwealth
Statistician, Commonwealth and State
taxation for the year 1948-49 was
£527 million; as the national income
for that year was officially estimated
at £1,955 million, the total taxation
therefore amounted to approximately
27% of the national income.
“Our national income has increased
from £Bl4 million to £1,955 million
between the years 1939-1949.
“In the light of all the informa-
tion available on the influences of
extreme taxation, it would be prefer-
able to impose lesser taxation, and
allow the reduced amount to be
placed to reserves against future
contingencies which will ultimately
benefit the employee as well as
employer.
“I feel it must be said again, even
if one be charged with repetition,
that only by work and a willing-
ness to abide by the law shall we
regain a truly prosperous state in
the community.
“More work, for which incentive
should be given, would hasten our
recovery, for it will be by greater
production that we shall bring about
a solution of the many problems that
beset us today.
A Fallacy
“The policy of less work and more
pay as a means of bettering the lot
of the people has proved a fallacy,
and the sooner this is recognised
throughout the community the sooner
shall we reach the solution of our
problems—for in the long run pay-
ment for work must be linked with
commensurate output if we are to
make this country a happy place in
which all our people can live and
prosper.
“The view has been expressed that
higher taxation is the means by which
further inflationary trends may be
checked.
“There is no doubt that Australia
is receiving extraordinary prices for
primary production—£26s million for
a wool clip and about £lOO million
for a wheat crop are certainly major
factors in our present day prosperity,
but that there is no alternative to
maintaining sound economy except
by abnormal taxation cannot be
accepted.
“To reduce taxation, and for the
present withhold part of the reduced
amount from circulation would create
incentive to work and produce, for
I venture to assert some day this
money in the hands of the people
will prove a valuable reserve when
conditions and prices are not so
favorable to Australia as at present.
“I look forward with the hope that
the Government will decide:
9 “To simplify the very complex
method of T taxation.
® “To indicate a realistic view of
existing conditions and heavily reduce
taxation, even if part of the reduced
amount is withheld from circulation
during the period before we return
to a more normal economy.
“We have now 40 branches, having
recently acquired Temora from Mr.
W. J. Porter; Gundagai and Tumut
from Gardiner, Macdonald Pty. Ltd.;
Junee from Messrs. Southwell Bros.;
and Ardlethan from J. Kennedy &
Company Pty. Ltd.
“Situated as these are, they should
prove valuable connecting links in
our chain of branches in that area.
“I should like to express the
appreciation of the directors to all
sections of the staff.
“With the difficulty of securing
necessary additional personnel for the
company’s continuously increasing
business, there has been a heavy
volume of work for the existing staff,
and it is with much satisfaction I
have to record that they have loyally
given their best efforts throughout
the year.”


&
m %
★
i
ON
DS
AUSTft
-
FO.P.SO/W
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
6i YEARS OF SERVICE
TO TBE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
m
ALL KINDS OF
FISHING TACKLE!
For river, beach and deep
sea fishermen, English and
French NYLON LINES...
hunting knives . . . smokers’
requisites. Write for new
fishing catalogue, now avail-
able.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 George St., Sydney.
Phone MC26I.
K
M
m
/
m
ans
/
Y
A.
w.
y.
y <r
£§oo*l®
3306
paM 1™
a
/
l/l""
/
8.1. Slagwoool is the modern insulating material
which proofs the whole building against cx rem
in temperature.
8.1. Slagwool is easily applied to new or old
tures. Live in absolute comfort Winter an
mer; fine your home with 8.1. Slagwool an
on fuel costs too.
For full particulari call, urite or phono • • •
f^ulatwn
PTT.
LTD. I
Phones; SYDNEY. BXS? 84: MELBOURNE 3506
BRISBANE 83*04; 8.1. ']&)■ LTD. AW U *
Cen. 7257:8.1. (W.A.) LTD. PERTH L 2107
Business.Rollery.Etc.
Bradford, Kendall, Ltd.
There are 631,912 10s. ords,
in Bradford Kendall, Ltd., listed
on Sydney Stock Exchange, and
it is in these that the public is
principally interested. A hand-
ful of 6 p.c. and 7 p.c. prefs.
carry total capital up to £325,000.
The ords. last week were
around 13s, each in the market.
Highest price for the ords. since
they were split into 10s. units has
been 145., which, pro rata, is a
shilling a share below the rate
at which some £1 ords. were
offered by a Sydney stockbroking
firm prior to listing.
The present co. was formed
in 1922 to take over a business
of the same name. It is en-
gaged in ironfoundry work,
steelmaking and structural en-
gineering. It expanded greatly
during and since the war. A
steel foundry was operated for
the Commonwealth Government
in war-time under annexe condi-
tions, and this has, since been
bought for £120,000, of which
£32,000 and accumulated interest
was paid up to June 30, 1949.
The remainder is to be paid in
'll annual instalments of £BOOO,
with interest at 4} p.c.
In the term to June 30, 1949,
there were two serious inter-
ruptions to production as a
result of strikes, and earnings
were badly affected. Net profit
fell from £25,853 to £13,272, and
the ratio to ord. capital dropped
from 9.1 p.c. to 4 p.c. Though
a 6 p.c. div. (tax-free) was paid
for the year (8 p.c. preceding
term) the market was dis-
appointed, and the scrip has been
as low as 11s. since.
Though at present there is a
shortage of pig-iron in Sydney,
Bradford Kendall have had a
comparatively uninterrupted run
during the year which will close
on June 30 next, though it started
off with a hangover from the
coal-strike. Work was resumed
on August 18, 1949, and earnings
should be on a much higher level.
Interim ord. div., paid in April,
was at the rate of 8 p.c. If it
is maintained for the year, the
yield would be £6 3s. per cent,
at 13s, a share.
The stock has interesting pos-
sibilities. There is any amount of
work for the co. to do for several
years ahead. At present it is
expanding at a rate that is likely
to create a demand for more
capital; including tax provision
and final div., the co. owed
£271,374 last balance-day, an in-
crease of £105,717 during the
year, largely the result of an
additional outlay of £104,730 on
freeholds (£188,525) and £37,785
on plant (£182,997). Stock and
work in progress (together
£170,059) were also up £60,161.
At last balance-day an in-
tangible item, “contracts, patents,
etc.,” exceeded reserves by 3d.
per ord. share, leaving this class
of scrip with a net tangible asset
backing of 9s. 9d. a share.
To solidify its position the co.
will need to net 15 p.c. or more
on ord. capital, a rate which has
not been shown since listing, but
which should be quite on the
cards given uninterrupted opera-
tions. If 15 p.c. were earned, a
third of it would need to go to
reserves on present balance-sheet
figures.
Roma Oil Survey
“Petro”: It was stated at the
general meeting of Kalimna
Oil, held in Melbourne on May
30, that the seismic survey at
Roma, South Queensland,
should be completed in about
two or three months.
This will be welcome news to
kalimna shareholders, who have
had to wait a long time for a
geophysical report on their
permit area.
The Bureau of Mineral Re-
sources started operations in the
area with a gravity-meter in
November, 1947. It added a
“He's one of the smartest auditors in town —too damned
smart.”
magnetometer to its equipment
in May, 1948, and the combined
survey continued to the end of
that year. After several delays
and false alarms, a seismic
survey was commenced, and it
is this survey which, in the co.’s
estimation, will be completed
within three months.
The Kalimna directors are re-
ported as stating that the results
obtained so far tend to confirm
the existence of structures de-
lineated by the previous gravity
and magnetic surveys. This
statement would appear to be
founded on a misconception of
what may be expected from the
seismic method, which is
normally employed to give
approximately quantitative posi-
tional significance to the “inter-
faces” (or surfaces of change in
physical properties) indicated by
gravity and magnetic anomalies.
These interfaces need not be,
necessarily, coincident with the
bedding planes which define a
geological structure ; the correct
interpretation of their geological
significance is, in fact, a matter
for the experienced field
geologist rather than the
mathematical geophysicist.
The Kalimna directors are
also reported as being “hopeful
that the geological reports will
indicate a drilling-site which will
yield oil in commercial quan-
tities.” At best, however, all
they can hope for is that a struc-
ture favorable to the segregation
and retention of petroleum in
commercial quantities is what is
indicated by the gravitational
and magnetic changes and by
the seismic echoes.
Even where such a structure
occurs, it will be valueless as a
commercial oil-producer unless
it contains a sealed oil reservoir
of sufficient porosity and per-
meability. To discover whether
that is so or not, the expense
and risk of sinking a major well
has to be undertaken, and
Kalimna carries the good wishes
of every thinking Australian for
its success.
To give it the best chance
possible, it is to be hoped that
the translation of the geo-
physical data into sane struc-
tural geology will not be left to
mathematicians and calculating-
machines, but will be entrusted
to an experienced field geologist
with a detailed knowledge of the
regional tectonics. Fortunately,
there are many such available
both on the staff of the Univer-
sity of Queensland and in the
Queensland Department of
Mines.
B.H.P.’s financial year ended
on May 31. It should produce
better results than the 1948-49
period, even though there was
one month (July, 1949) entirely
without production of steel, and
three months (June, July and
August) when total output of
pig-iron averaged pnly about
half capacity. But output of
pig-iron and steel for the full
year should be more than that
for the preceding period, there
having been an acceleration in
output after the disastrous mid-
winter coal strike ended. And
since early last Decent
price of pig-i ron and™ te i
been raised by £2 a l eel has
round. This would mean 1 ? W
crease m B.H P»« •„ 11 an m-
tiiat of its subsidiaries and
£5 million annuallv oVer
should take care of Sf whic h
creases so far Thrmiu COst in '
results for the
be an improvement L n, ilould
1948-49, the real for
capacity of the undertaken PUI S
not be revealed until Y ll{
works get into full swW Plate
Pig-iron production r Ll nd
something like nlant ea hes
(coal and shipping “* ,S pa ? ty
snags), which is fbout S
again as the present much
figure. B.H.P. fnE ai rf“‘
week yielded anU ast
return of 3.1 p.c. on the presenl
81 p.c. div. basis. p sent
* * *
Mt. Isas missing-out with a
d ‘ v - ■ Payment this month
shocked the market into a 4s
Thlri n he S S rip on Tuesday
wards but e th flUCtUatlonS aftk *-
wards, but the price eventually
settled around 375. 6d. for the
£1 stock units. Net profit as
shown by the books, for’the
£494 797 r t 0 DeCember 31 fell to
£794,7 97, compared with
£1,457,337 for the previous full
year. Metal sales for the half-
year were £2,407,254, compared
with £6,013,700 for die S,
mg full 12 months. Lower U S
metal prices were mainly to
blame for the fall in the profit
rate —which, however, is still
equal to over 20 p.c. p. a . on
capital, compared with 32 8 p c
in 1948-49. The co. has had to
finance considerable capital ex-
penditure out of current revenue,
while shipments of concentrates
have been delayed because of
excessive rain. The present
shortage of cash, however,
should be a passing phase pro-
vided profits are maintained.
Production should increase as
time goes on, and the outlay on
the copper project should yield
some return in 1953. Much will
depend on metal prices, coal
supplies and Australian costs.


fd
THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
•
Under
STATE GUARANTEE.
•
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
•
Write or Call for
Free Booklet
19 O’Connell Street
(Box 7, G.P.0.), Sydney,
p. J. P. Pullen, Public Trustee.
CTT&CeL
FACING fl PARK
The one tiling you will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and hustle. . . . The
Wentworth faces a park . . . yet
it is merely "round the comer"
from the centre of the city. The
rooms sue all you would wish
, . . the service and cuisine
excellent.
THE WENTWORTH
t/t
Thono BW 1361 (10 lines)
C D. Madurcan, Managing Director
%
i
m
§
e In I lire
With the chiming of
the wedding bells your
family responsibili-
ties commence. As ;
sure her security by arranging a
suitable life assurance policy
with “ The Equitable Contact
the company to-day and discuss
this important matter ... you will
be placed under no obligation.
R. V. PERKINS, General Manager
f
d
The Machinery
People
281 Latrobe St.. Melbourne. MU 2321
• Engineers’ Machine Tools. • Portable
Uectric Tools • Woodworking Machines.
• Circular and Band Saws. • All types
Saw Repairs.
m
r
un
&
who hasn’t read
How bold Macbeth was slain.
But now he’s been so long since dead.
Why rake him up again?
Then let him rest, he’s out of date.
We’ll turn to something newer.
If you’ve a cold be not too late,
Take Woods 9 Great Peppermint Cure.
Mk
VISITORS TO BRITAIN
m
are Invited to make full use of the complete
6 Albemarle St. Piccadilly
which is specially designed and located to
constitute your London headquarters. Service*
available include:
Complete financial arrangements—Planned travel
itineraries Bookings Advice on where to go
and what to see Receipt and forwarding of
mail—Assistance with business introductions.
Full particulars are available through any Branch of
Union Bank
of Australia Limited
travel service available through the Bank's new
WEST END BRANCH
LONDOR. W.l
(Incorporated in England)
Branches throughout Australia New Zealand
IN AFRICA ? =
In four days.
I’ll fly at once!”
Buyers and sellers with
overseas interests keep one
eye on the clocks and time-
tables of the world. They
depend on regular Speedbird
air services over 175,000 miles
of routes to all six continents.
They fly swiftly and in
comfort on one ticket all the
way. No tips, no extras to pay.
FLY BRITISH BY B.O.A.C.
to almost anywhere
Book from Sydney to Indonesia
FAR EAST • HONG KONG • JAPAN
CEYLON • INDIA • PAKISTAN "AFRICA
ITALY • GREAT BRITAIN • AND VIA
U.K. TO U.S.A. • CANADA • CENTRAL
AND SOUTH AMERICA • BERMUDA
\\
ill
-V
s
I
I S t'
\\ '
i
m
mmim
nr-me
Information & Bookings : Qantas Empire Airways Ltd.
(8.0.A.C. General Agents in Australia) at Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Townsville, Cairns, Darwin or from
Travel Agents in all cities and towns. 9/1 4/1
Specify 8.0.A.C. “Air Cargo” for your overseas shipments!
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS EMPIRE AIR-
WAYS LTD., TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD. & SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS
Inflation in N.Z.
To confound Socialist finan-
ciers, who claimed they balanced
N.Z.’s finances in their final
year, P.M. Holland last month
tallied up total receipts and
payments to March 31, and
found a gap of £25,309,320.
Receipts were; Tax funds
£135,556,034 (a record), loans
from the public £19,399,460, and
other income, mainly from trad-
ing departments, £24,463,088.
Summarised, results were:
Receipts.
To Mar. 31:
Consolidated Fund .. £124,996,633
Social Security .. .. *31,773,173
War Expenses .. .. 3,249,316
National Development.. 19,399,460
Total .. .. .. £179,418,582
Payments.
Consolidated Fund ..*£108,688,892
Social Security ~ .. 46,360,426
War Expenses .. .. 4,279,124
National Development.. ,45,399,360
Total £204,727,902
* Excluding £l2 million transferred
from Consolidated Fund for Social
Security purposes.
To bridge the 1949-50 gap in
the capital account for national
development, the Socialists con-
jured up £26 million of new
credit through the Reserve Bank
and hoped to dazzle Maori-
landers by their financial
wizardry. But stripping this £26
million of all disguise and
parading it naked, Mr. Holland
showed what had been going on
for years past, and the Socialists
were v furious. Their easy-money
method was to draw on the
reserve value of the currency,
and when Maorilanders called a
halt six months ago they had
bled the currency of £97 million,
using the Reserve Bank as a
handy instrument. This
amounted to an attack on the
pound from the rear, with sav-
ings and incomes whittled down,
except when wage-earners and
pressure-groups were strong
enough to demand more. The
majority of Maorilanders knew
something was wrong with the
pound but didn’t understand just
how credit-spinning was the
cause of the trouble. Probably
most of them are wiser now.
When the Socialists were busy
credit-spinning, moneymaking
in N.Z. was becoming a battle
of wits, in which back-scratch-
ing, palm-greasing, blackmarket-
ing and law-evasion all had a
part. There were rogues, knaves,
under-the-table buyers and
sellers, car profiteers and others
battening on steady, honest,
thrifty, industrious folk, who
were left behind in the unequal
race.
Callide Coal
“Kerogen”: “W’gabba’s” par.
(B. 10/5/’5O) on Callide coal
does scant justice to a valuable
deposit of sufficient magnitude
to warrant large-scale develop-
ment. There is little doubt both
from bore and prospecting evi-
dence that once the present
weathered section of the face is
passed and the better coal
further in reached there will be
no complaints about its steaming
qualities.
At the moment likely pur-
chasers are wary of buying from
the Gladstone “pile,”’ which now
contains much weathered sub-
stance and shaly matter result-
ing from the inclusion of the top
band.
This latter should have been
discarded in the overburden-
removal, and was a main factor
in giving the disappointing re-
sults experienced in the Vic-
torian power-house tests.
Compared with Blair Athol,
whose age and general nature it
closely resembles, the coal is
slightly lower in calorific value
and higher in ash and moisture,
but these minor disadvantages
are outweighed *by its closer
proximity to markets.
True, the present road is being
cut up by a heavy lorry traffic
often amounting to 60 trucks
daily, though charges on the coal
for transport along it from field
to Gladstone of ss. a ton towards
upkeep are made by the Roads
Board.
This and other abnormalities
such as 2s. Bd. a ton to lease-
holders, 6d. levy to the Queens-
land Coal Board and 6d. to the
Mines Department, all tend to
raise f.o.b. costs. Nevertheless
it is considered that this coal
can be landed in Melbourne, on
a parity basis with the imported
Indian article of no better
quality, 10 p.c. cheaper. This is
based on the latest estimated
figure of £6 6s. a ton by the im-
porters. India’s present policy is
to export only lower-grade coals.
Although the present round-
about rail route from Callide to
port now gives the coal no ad-
vantage in freight-rates over
road transport, attempts are
being made to adjust this
anomaly by the construction of
a new road to shorten the
present rail-haul, and tenders are
being called for a short length
of rail to reduce the total mile-
age still further. Sooner or later
the Queensland Government will
have to consider the construction
of a direct line (so many times
advocated when the field was
first discovered) over, the Callide
Rhnge and downhill to Glad-
stone, a 66-mile stretch costing
perhaps £1,000,000 and opening
up some nice country as well
as providing the best coal-route
outlet.
Then this coal would have
little to fear from outside com-
petition in southern markets.
Interested consumers, such as
the Victorian S.E.C., are arrang-
ing further tests on bulk ship-
ments, but this time it will be
on coal that is directly repre-
sentative of the Callide seam
and shipped under the super-
vision of experts.
Meantime the coal is being
sent as far afield as Mt. Isa,
where it has proved quite satis-
factory.
Former Mines Minister
Moore was right in his attempts
to develop Callide by seeking
substantial external markets for
the product.
It is to be hoped that his suc-
cessor will now make every
effort, assisted by the Common-
wealth, and with the friendly co-
operation of those States which
could economically use the
product, to get this easily-won
coal to where it is most needed,
and that without undue inter-
ference from those political and
other bodies whose interests lie
elsewhere.
Sydney Ram Sales
Merino rams are big business
at present, record wool prices
having their effect to such an
extent that at Sydney ram sales
last week both sellers and
auctioneers were obviously
astonished at the bidding
strength.
Everybody with rams to sell
did well. Last year 1250 rams
averaged slightly over £9B a
head and realised a total of
about £117,000. This year 1006
were sold for an average of
nearly £146 and a total of
£146,812. There was a new
auction record in this: 3400
guineas for a Uardry buck,
which was first knocked down
to J. A. Wallace, Boabula,
Deniliquin, for 2100gns. Gus
Scott, of Milong, Young,
claimed the bid as his, it was de-
clared disputed, the ram went
up again and Scott stayed the
distance. The price brought
back memories of the private
sale of David, the Dalkeith
champion, to the Falkiners for
5000gns. some 25 years or so
ago. It is probable that the new
auction record will stand for a
long time.
Top studs had a grand time
among the buyers. Haddon
Rig got £43,853 for 148 head,
Bundemar £11,392 for 31,
Wahwoon £9959 for 39, Burra-'
bogie £6226 for 35, Boonoke
£7203 for 49, Wanganella
£6263 for 53, Merryville £6121
for 57. These prices stimulate
private sales, and anybody
caught looking upon a Merino
ram these days as merely a sheep
can be sued for libel.
Willingness of woolgrowers
to pay these prices indicates that
they don’t fear any severe fall
in wool prices for the next few
years. It is, good to see them
willing to buy good rams, for
this is one of the few capital
investments they can make with
their big wool cheques, so much
of present incomes having to
lie idle or be spent on unessential
things because of the general
shortage of material for im-
provement of pastoral pro-
perties.


Women’s Letters
From Sydney
Social Sydney is relaxing after the
Sheep Show festivities, which included
the ball given for the country visitors by
Pitt, Son and Badgery at the Wentworth.
Proceeds of this bit of brightness go to
aid the Far West Health Scheme. There
was a roll-up of about 400, and George
Falkiner weighed in with a ram to be
sold at the sheep sales during the week.
Activities were rounded off in good style
by the Royal Sydney Golf Club with a
ball at their Rose Bay Clubhouse.
The success of St. Vincent’s Ex-Students’
Annual Ball at Prince’s surpassed even the
optimistic expectations of the organisers.
It was one of those very pleasant affairs
that went with zest from the beginning
and the 300 dancers enjoyed every minute
of it. Eighteen debutantes, in filmy
white picture frocks, looked like an
excerpt from “Les Sylphides.” They
were presented by vice-president Mrs. A,
F. Burne, who wore lilac slipper-satin,
draped at the bodice, and suitably en-
hanced with an antique silver necklace.
Mrs. G. McKinnon received the debs, in
a pink crepe frock, beaded with much
intricacy with turquoise and pearls.
Mrs. J. Christie, who was joint secretary
with Judith Anderson, chose a lovely
jade-green French crepe, embroidered on
the yoke with gold sequins and beads.
Before the dance she and her husband.
Dr. Christie, gave a cocktail party at their
Cammeray home.
Word has been received of the Frank
De Groots, happily settled for the time at
Rathgar, Co. Dublin, Ireland. They
travefied by way of the U.S. and found
on arrival in New York a temperature of
one degree, so they joined the citizens in
slipping and sliding about the icy streets.
A large circle of friends will be pleased
to know that Jack, who went direct by
air to join them in Ireland, stood up well
to the trip despite his doggy age, but is
not doing quite so well in quarantine.
Mrs. De Groot is having a happy time
attending the Curragh with her brother,
who flew from Los Angeles to join her in
Dublin. The major, true to his old love,
is visiting auction-sales looking for bar-
gains in antiques.
Mr. and Mrs. Bill de Meyrick (she is
remembered as Betty Watson, of Hay)
are being congratulated on the birth of
a son. This seventh-generation Australian
is a new grandson for Lieut.-Colonel and
Mrs. Julian de Meyrick, of Casula. Julian
Harold, names borne by his de Meyrick
and Watson grandfathers, have been
chosen for the boy. Godparents will be
Mrs. John Baxter, now in England with
her naval husband; Kath Nowland;
John Broughton, of Dubbo ; and Captain
Richard de Meyrick. Bill, who was with
the R.A.A.F. during the war, is now in
his fifth year of medicine at Sydney Uni-
versity. •
Mrs. Alfredo Campoli attended the first
of her husband’s recitals at Sydney Town
Hall blending sophistication with
elegance in black topped off with silver-
fox. The big audience applauded an
able performance of artistic integrity.
Associate artist, Margaret Schofield,
was as pleasing to look at as to
listen to. A rose satin gown with a
shawl-collar set off her dark good looks,
which have been seen many times on the
8.8. C. television programmes.
Looking demure in her plain, dark silk
frock with a tiny, girlish white collar,
Elisabeth Bergner, famous film and stage
star, with her husband, Dr. Paul Czinner,
were guests of honor at a civic reception
given by the Lord Mayor and Lady
Mayoress, sAlderman and Mrs. O’Dea.
Nina Bucknall (Mrs. Gordon Latta), who
also played in London and New York
with Miss Bergner in “Escape Me Never,”
was there with John Robinson. Miss
Bergner and Miss Bucknall will be in
the roles of the “Two Mrs. Carrolls” in the
play of that name to open soon in Sydney,
with John Robinson as Mr. Carroll. Miss
Bergner’s easy simplicity captivated
everyone, and it is suspected that a Berg-
ner look” will spring up in Sydney
during the next few months among the
teenagers. Among the hundred who
foregathered to do honor to the trio and
partake of the Lady Mayoress’s hospi-
tality was a fair sprinkling of talent, with
some nice dressing on the side.
Women have enthusiastically accepted
the suggestion put forward by the Lord
Mayor, Alderman O’Dea, that Sydney be
beautified by a tree-planting campaign.
Many have come forward with offers of
trees. At Double Bay two women have
offered an entire avenue each: Miss Ann
Levy suggested providing one as a
memorial to her brother, the late Sir
Danial Levy, one-time speaker of the
N.S.W. Legislative Assembly; Mrs. B. E.
Barton, one for her son, an R.A.A.F
pilot who was killed in New Guinea.
This type of memorial can hardly be
bettered. In a number of country centres
the idea has been employed successfully.
An avenue of big wattles in the western
district, panted to honor the memory of
those who fell in the 1914-18 War, is a
joy of perfumed gold in the spring. It
is to bo hoped that, should the plan
mature, the Council may curtail the
activities of its pruning-squad, so that
we shall have trees that are recognisable
and give summer shade instead of being
amputated horrors.
“I hope we gather here not in a social
sense, but in a humane one,” said Mrs.
Millard Hagon, presiding at the second
meeting of the Anti-T.B. Association’s
social committee. This handsome lady,
portrayed here by Norton Trevaire, is
a very competent president, and under
her skilful direction the plans of the com-
mittee look like becoming money-
spinners. Attention at the moment is
centred on a soiree, the arrangements for
which are well advanced, although the
location is still uncertain. Chief
attraction of the programme will be a
recital by Pnina Salzman, the distinguished
Palistinian pianist. Although an atten-
dance of between 500 and 600 is con-
templated, the members of the committee
propose themselves to provide the supper,
so that the largest possible sum will be
available to the good purpose. The
Younger Set is pulling- its weight, too,
with the Snow Ball to be held at Prince’s
on June 12. A Snow Queen has been
chosen by ballot, and she will be crowned
at the ball. A snowman will be Queen’s
Jester. Sam Biber has donated a fur
cape for presentation to the Snow Queen.
Invitation-cards, decorations for the
ballroom, and surprise-packets to be
peddled among the guests will all have
the silvery glitter of a winter’s tale.
President of the Y.S. is Nadia Boutagy,
a tall dark lass with an attractive accent.
Margaret Piddington, down from Bris-
bane last week to stay with her mother
at Edgecliffe, is a member of a delegation
out to raise funds to help build new
university residential colleges in Brisbane.
Principal of the Women’s College of the
University of Queensland, elected mem-
ber of the University Senate and vice-
president of the University Girls’ Under-
graduate Association, she is concerned
that women students should be housed
more adequately and conveniently. It
costs these students 10s. a week in fares
for transport alone, which includes two
buses and a ferry, to get from the
women’s college to the lecture halls in
the main university building. Many big
Queensland undertakings have direc-
torates in Sydney and Melbourne, and it
is to these in particular that the delega-
tion is directing its appeal. Many
promises of solid support have already
been given. Margaret, who is an Arts
graduate of Sydney University, followed
the academic pattern set by her mother,
father and grandfather, Judge E. B.
Docker; the late A. B. Piddington,
familiar for half a century to Sydney-
siders as advocate and judge, was an
uncle. During the war she did an out-
standing job—indeed, a variety of jobs—
with the R.A.A.F., ending up as acting
squadron-officer and .V.A.O.C. staff-
officer.
The Society of Friends of the Hebrew
University of Jerusalem held a dance at
Prince’s on Monday night to raise funds.
Guests included the chargd d’affaires for
Israel, Mr. Y. H. Levin, and Mrs. Levin,
first secretary to the legation, Mr. G.
Doran, and Mrs. Doran and the vice-
chancellor of Sydney University, Profes-
sor S. H. Roberts, and Mrs. Roberts.
From Melbourne
Subtle-shaded roses* gay peonies, white
lilac and lily-of-the-valley are blooming
in gay profusion in this wintry city, but
alas! only on the pretty frocks seen in
the W, H, Hughes collection. Ecstasy
creations, they were aptly named, for the
new colors, the adaptations of the apron
skirt, the new vogue for separates for
restaurant wear and the glorious evening-
gowns will do much for the women on a
clolhes-budget. Rothsay-blue is a bright
navy, Devon-cream a light golden beige,
young willow the palest of green, starfish
a deep aqua, cloud blush a lovely dusty-
pink. Then there’s seaspray, turquoise,
silver trout (a misty blue-grey), sunlit
lime, and cloudbank, a deep rose-pink.
Pleating, including the new cone pleats,
was used to give fullness at the back of
a slim skirt. This was seen in a Rothsay-
blue crepe which had a horse-
shoe neckline edged with a deep collar of
white pique.
There were fully-pleated skirts, pleated
aprons and overskirts, and often the
back and front of the bodice were pleated.
White pique, white sharkskin and white
grosgrain were used to make large and
dashing contributions of revers and collar
to jackets and-boleros. In this return to
attractive details broderie anglaise was
not forgotten. It was used most
effectively on a Rothsay-blue bolero as a
deep collar and revers. A paper-weight
corduroy velvet in muted tones also added
feminine charm to well-cut frocks. The
flower story was beautifully told in the
large scarlet carnation which formed a
color contrast on the blue-and-white-
check bolero worn over a matching blue
frock with its swathed waistline of blue
and white check. Lily-of-the-valley was
tucked into the foldsi of the waterfall
neckline and wide-draped skirt of a
distant-blue crepe frock. White lilac on
a grosgrain neck-ribbon was used to fill
in the neckline of another pretty frock.
Lovely silk roses in silver-grey tonings
embellished a Chantilly lace stole which
matched a lace evening-gown. Blue roses
formed one shoulder-strap of a black
Chantilly lace mounted on black
marquisette and there were amber and
gold roses in the strapless bodice of a
sunlit-lime satin ball-gown. The
“almond” skirt was a new feature seen'
in day frocks and evening-gowns. This is
an overskirt, which sweeps from the hip
almost to mid-hem in an almond shape
and is a silhouette, excellent for the not-
so-slini. They were striking cotton-frocks
ih floral designs, the cotton wax-finished
to give it a silken appearance. There
were a few floral silk frocks, but the most
attractive designs were the Bayadere
prints of modernistic designs. Skirts are
14 inches from the ground, shoulders are
still rounded, necklines definitely plunge,
and flying panels are still a feature of
the spring and summer fashions of 1950.
Madame Maria Vigano finds time
from the busy life she leads, which in-
cludes her work for the Suther-
land Homes Auxiliary, to get out
into the open spaces to paint landscapes.
But her greatest joy is portrait-painting—
she is shown here beside a self-portrait.
At present she is busy putting on canvas
a likeness of Babs McKinnon, young star
of the play “Where’s Charley” ; this, with
others, she intends to enter, for this year’s
Archibald Prize,
Alceo Galliera was guest conductor of
the. Victorian Symphony Orchestra for
the third subscription concert itf the Town
Hall, when Edmund Kurtz th*
cellist, was soloist. Mrs ir?,! ernuie nt
the audience; her hL? Urte Wa * in
ballerina frock was worn tuUe
length sable jacket. Mrs o nn dei j a hi P-
ton’s black satins Gha £
gown worn by the Hebze fe nnt / d - T he
two flared flounces of bright fe f tUred
on a pencil-slim plain black f? ra sati n
the bodice was of the floral Satm sl^rt :
lime-green feather set oS SeTpv,,- A
deep-wine hat. Mrs CharlJrA P * lllll p s , s
a small velvet cap trimmed wiu,^- 8 Wore
with her black coat which aigrett£ s
collar of black Persian lamb sha *l
Potter had a natty little whited' lan
cap to highlight her black pn feather '
Pianist Vera Bradford, A® ble-
give a series of morning c . n S l hortl y
Menzies’ for the British IvL™ USIC , a es at
was with Mrs. A. F “" d '
An unusual scheme of dernraf ,
been planned for the EarV aS
pital Ball at St. Kilda Town w i? 08 '
June 15. The stage will be tA n !f 0n
into a garden, wifh a sprayingfoun? ed
in the centre—this will be a m? n ain
the one planned for the new °, f
Special flowers, the gift 0 f tbf.° S ? Ita ‘
Mayor of Brisbane, will be flown ,f° rd
to decorate the official tab™ “T
Governor, Lady Brooks and
daughter Jeanette will be there
sherry party held at the Nurses’ Hr,™
at Fitzroy final plans for the balfe
made. Miss Elizabeth Johns matron S
the Eye and Ear Hospital, wo’re a^ 0 /
navy ensemble, a matching fur-felt w
and mink furs. Mrs. Les® Daley w h 0 ‘
shares the responsibility of secretary S
Alma Pedersen, was in a black frock
dyed-ermine coat and aigrette-trimmed
black hat. Alma had a paste™
feather-trimmed hat as contrast for her
black wool crepe coat. Mrs. Harold
Martorana wore a cap of white broderie
anglaise outlined with sequins with a
, ermine coat. Mrs. David
Grittiths s white melusine hat was finished
with black-feather wings. Diamente em-
bellished Mrs. W. Sugden’s black frock
and Pat Goddard was in a bright-blue
wool frock and matching cloche hat.
An energetic member of the junior
auxiliary of the Vera Scantlebury Brown
Memorial Fund and of the Sutherland
Homes Auxiliary, Mrs. Dick Noone,
invited members of the two auxiliaries to
a late-afternoon party, where, over
sherry, plans were discussed for a ball
at the Delphic, in which both committees
will share the work and the proceeds.
Date is July 5, which will be in race
week, when many country people will be
in town, Mesdames Russell Coldham,
W. I. Winter Irving, J. V. de Crespigny,
John Whyte and J. Davies are among
those working hard for its success. The
Lady Mayoress, Mrs. J. S. Disney, has
given her patronage. Mrs. Russell Cold-
ham (BJ1846) is in charge of table reser-
vations. Tickets are 255. each.
Of historic interest was the wedding
at Frankston of Nancy Bree Grice and
Hugh Victor Cook, for Nancy is the great-
granddaughter of Stephen George Henty,
and eldest daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. I.
E. Grice, of Aloha,
Frankston. The
bride wore her
mother’s wedding-
gown of ivory satin
faille and the Henty
family wedding-veil,
which is 300 years
old. The bridegroom
is the youngest son
of Mrs. M. Cook, of
Brentwood, Mount
Martha, and the late
Mr. G. E. Cook,
formerly of Geelong.
The reception was
held at the Fernery,
Frankston.
Fur-lined boots,
heavy coats and furs
were popular at the
Melbourne Racing
Club’s meeting at
Caulfield, but hats
were gay. Mrs. C. J-
Taylor, who gave a
large luncheon party,
wore an embroidered
wool crepe fro** ‘
nut-brown tonmgs
and matched it W
a hat finished with
a brown ostrich-feather. A _^ eg T
felt hat in red neatly offset Mrs-
Cain’s black frock an d A short
Persian-lamb jacket. Mrs. A. p
coat was of black caracul. ’ .
Mein wore a cape-jacket < 5 rich
feather-trimmed hat was in f aS hioned
tonings. Wine-toned Harry
Mrs. J. Reilly’s smart coat J ■
Davey was in a junior-navy ense
and matcliing hat


c n
fd
WINES
GOOD FOR MORE
THAN A CENTUR
PERSONAL ITEMS
Herewith the purposeful facade which
houses the cheerful personality of Roy
McLean, who blew in on leave from
British North Borneo, where he answers
to the title of District Officer, When, in
1944, headquarters called for volunteers
for a special and hazardous mission, it
W as a natural that a self-sufficient
wanderer who’d mined for gold, copper
and silver-lead in Malaya, China and the
Philippines, and who spoke the lingo,
should send his name in. McLean was
pulled out of the 13 th Field Engineers,
A.LF., then in Darwin ; next he knew
he was pulling parachute rip-cords down
south. Seven practice jumps, and the
next landed hinh in a clearing in north
Borneo, where he teamed up with five
cobbers landed from a British submarine.
MAN FROM BORNEO.
The name of this unit was “Z Special,”
a name honored among, island-fighters,
and members of which sneaked into
Singapore in collapsible dinghies to blow
up a sizeable tonnage of Jap shipping
with limpet-mines. For 11 months be-
fore the invasion the party spotted on
Japs, wirelessed their strength and dis-
positions to Morotai, trained Malay and
Chinese guerrillas, and in between am-
bushed likely parties, the five of them
accounting for 43 Nips. When the Allied
landing-barges took over, McLean came
out into the open with the British Mili-
tary Administration, and, at the Tokyo
surrender, joined the Colonial Office, his
present employer. One of his Borneo
friends is Agnes Keith, who wrote the
book Three Came Home, which, filmed,
is currently running in Sydney.
The long arm of the law needed some
reach to cover Inspector J. J. Osborne’s
beat—the Cairns police district, it takes
in Thursday Island in the north and Tully
in the south, with the York Peninsula
and Gulf country piling in jumbled
roughness between. One of the high spots
of a hardly-tame life was his dis-
arming of a madman who ran amok
with a loaded rifle outside a Warwick
(Q.) hotel. Osborne hands in his badge
this month.
“Macnell”: Shifting berth from the
Naval Board to Flag Officer in charge,
Sydney, Rear-admiral Henry Arthur
Showers, C.8.E., one of the Navy’s Big
Three who joined together and have since
if] stat * on pretty well on the promotion
ladder. With the other two, Collins and
Farncomb, he was in the first cadet-class
jn 1913. A submariner in his early years,
he later specialised in navigation, and was
the British Third Cruiser Squadron’s
navigating-officer when it was warily
watching Musso win his military honors
against the Abyssinians. He had cruiser
Hobart when she was “fished” off the
olornons, and, with Hobart refitting in
ydney, took over Shropshire from John
oilins, thus having the distinction of
commanding possibly the finest radar-
ship in the Allied Pacific Fleets. Shrop-
shire’s outstanding efficiency with her
searching electronic fingers round Biak,
Morotai and Aitape rated a unique letter
of praise from Washington. Now 51,
Showers, well-liked and easy to serve
with, retains the nuggety solidity which,
in War I, won him the Grand Fleet’s
heavyweight boxing championship', and
also selection to represent Kent and
Hampshire at Rugby Union.
Professor Alexander (“Wee Ahlec”)
Ross, who, after warming the Chair of
Physics at Westralia’s University since
1913, has decided to vacate it next year,
had a distinguished career in the Old
Dart before coming to Perth in 1912.
He ran off with a string of distinctions
at Glasgow University, among them the
Kelvin Medal, the institution’s highest
distinction in science, and of which he
was the first recipient. With his re-
searches in spectroscopy, astro-physics
and other matters claiming a world-wide
public, he went from Perth to Melbourne
in 1940 to offer the services of the
organised physical science workers of
Australia to the Government in its war
crisis. Another war-time job in Mel-
bourne was to tell the Australian Navy
whatever it wanted to know of physics;
and the highly technical state of the Navy
produced some curly questions. A quiet
little man with massive, brow and full
moustache, he’s such a fine speaker that
it’s claimed students would rather miss a
meal than miss one of his lectures. The
Prof, leaves in January for the Pan-
Indian Ocean Science Congress in Cal-
cutta, then goes on to Glasgow to be in
at the 500th anniversary of its Univer-
sity’s founding. Glasgow-born himself,
1883, in between his other elevated
pursuits he finds time for music and
photography.
ROBERT D. FITZGERALD.
[A portrait in oils by Norman Lindsay. Fitz Gerald has
recently completed a long narrative poem on which he has
been working for seven years.]
Leaving Canberra for his bowls and
fishing, Queensland Senator Joseph
Silver Codings, one of the founders of
the Labor party in Queensland. He had
two years in the State’s Leg. Council
before it was abolished, and entered
Federal Parliament in 1931, to become
Leader of the Senate Opposition (six
years) and Minister for the Interior
(four war years). Born at Hove, near
Brighton (Eng.), 85 years ago, before tak-
ing on politics he was in the boot-
manufacturing industry.
Wherever the name of Baring is men-
tioned —and that’s in most Australian
wine-cellars —it conjures up a vision of
wine-bottle labels, tastefully designed.
A, W. R. Buring, who was boss of the
Buring and Sobels wine co. till his death
in Adelaide last week, was his own de-
signer. A natural craftsman, his skill
extended to illuminated addresses (seven
of which were presented to King
George V, and, through him, to the
nation) and fine bookbinding. “Rudi”
was known widely among Australian
artists, Lionel Lindsay being his par-
ticular friend. The Buring Spring Vale
vineyards lie at the foot of Mount
Horrocks (S.A.), an area first surveyed
by explorer Eyre to present to John
Horrocks and his friends. A.W.R. was
a son of the original Buring who planted
his first vines there in 1889 ; one of the
vineyard’s proud recollections is that its
Quell taler hock was the best Australian
wine to be served at a Lord Mayor’s
banquet in London, and also in the
House of Commons. Of S. Australian
vintage himself, “Rudi” Buring was 78
at the end.
The Cordner family, of Greens-
borough (Vic.), probably hold an
Australian- record for medicine and
sport. There are five of them:
all are blues of some sort, and three
are doctors. Their dad, Dr. Edward
Cordner, was a football and cricket blue
away back in 1906; Edward, junior,
claims a football blue and a half-blue for
cricket; Dr. Don was a football blue in
1942, captained Melbourne and was a
Brownlee medallist one year; Denis has
blues for football and cricket and a half-
blue in athletics, and John, the youngest,
scored in football in 1.942. All, except
Don, were at the Melbourne University
Blues’ annual dinner last month.
One international body which seems
to be doing the work for which it was
formed is the International Civil Aviation
Organisation, now holding its fourth
assembly in Montreal. Attending with
a brace of experts, Air Marshal Richard
Williams, Director-General of Civil Avia-
tion in Australia, is perhaps
this country’s most seasoned
airman—his history is pretty
well that of the R.A.A.F.;
the R.A.A.F.’s first com-
mander, Australia’s first Air
Marshal, the only Australian
to graduate at the Army and
Air Staff Colleges and the
Imperial Service College, the
only one to command an
R.A'.F. Wing (4th Army) in
War I, the first C.M.F.
officer from Point Cook
(1914), and the holder of No.
1 air-licence. He won the
D.S.O. in Palestine, as well
as the more unusual decora-
tion of the Arab Order of
El Nhada of the Hedjaz—
this for his work in associa-
tion with T. E. Lawrence.
Two months before Hitler
broke out Williams was
seconded from command of
the R.A.A.F. to take over
administration of Coastal
Command, one of the
R.A.F.’s most important
commands; some of its
work has portrayed for
Australian audiences in that
terrifying film, “The Lion
Has Wings.” Now 59,.
Williams was born at
Moonta, S. Australia, and
began work in a bank.
Henry E. Home, a country (N.S.W.)
Labor M.L.A. back in the days when
Holman was king, has distinguished him-
self at 78, by winning a verse competition
conducted by the Canobolas Shire for the
glory of Orange and surrounding dis-
tricts. It was not, of course, his first
attempt. Horne was the best of half a
dozen M.L.A.’s who at the time he was
in Parliament aspired to writing verse ;
he was the only one to see publica-
tion of some of his efforts in The
Bulletin.
Backing the cheerful dial here captured
by Heth a few minutes after its owner
had filed his nomination for Croydon
(N.S.W.) in the coming State shake-up
is the spirit of a very game Australian.
David Hunter, member for Croydon
since 1940, a member of the Royal Aus-
tralian Historical Society, himself knows
a great deal about Australia’s varied sons.
But he has not been able to see since he
was six. He educated himself to Parlia-
ment through the N.S.W. School for the
Deaf, Dumb and Blind. Two of his clubs
indicate his interests —the Blinded Service-
men’s and the Robert Burns Anniversary.
DAVID HUNTER, BLIND M.L.A.
He is honorary treasurer of the first, and
a more sympathetic and helpful guide
Diggers couldn’t wish for. Now 45, with
his affliction sitting lightly on his alert
friendliness, he is more knowledgeable
than a lot of seers, probably because he
reads everything he can put his fingers on.
E. F. Borrie, whose appointment as
Chief Town Planner to Greater Mel-
bourne had a stormy passage through the
Board of Works committee, is chief
sewerage-engineer and a Master of Civil
Engineering. In the late war he was
director of engineering for the Allied
War Council, and before that toured the
world investigating sewerage problems
and studying the layout of cities. A
Scotch College boy, he graduated from
Melbourne University, and has been look-
ing after the city’s sanitation for 20
years.
Into the Silence: —
In Perth, at 77, Edward Constantine, who
migrated from Cornwall in the ’nineties and
spent his life in Westralian journalism. In 1905
he founded the Geraldton “Guardian,” which 24
years later he amalgamated with the “Express,”
on which The Bulletin’s “T. the R.” made
his Australian debut.
At 64, in Brisbane, police-inspector F. M.
O’Driscoll, who made his name as a crime-
scotcher in N. Queensland. One of his arrests,
at Oakey, was Samuel Hanna, the only Queens-
lander to receive two life sentences. Sentenced
to death in 1905, reprieved to life imprisonment
and released in War I, Hanna later shot a
traffic superintendent at Roma, when O’Driscoll
brought him in for his second sentence. For
the last nine years of his service O’Driscoll
was head of the South Brisbane C.I.B. His
son is a Crown Prosecutor in New Guinea.
At Wagga, at 76, Major Victor Palazzi, three-
war veteran who began his fighting against
Kruger in the Australian Bushmen’s Regiment.
He was a saddler in Wagga.
In Dar-es-Salaam (Tanganyika), at 49, the
Right Rev. William Jones, Bishop of the State.
Welsh-born, schooled at Queen’s College, Taun-
ton (Eng.), and with B.A. and M.A. from
Sydney University, he crossed to Tanganyika in
1928 as head of the Teachers’ Training College
at Kongwa; later he headmastered the Arusha
European School, He had been a bishop seven
years.
At 90, in Adelaide, F. W. Coneybeer, one
of S. Australia’s earliest Labor men, who
became Speaker and Government Whip and
represented East Torrens in the Assembly for
34 years. At 82 he was re-elected president
of a Cyclists’ Rifle Club of which he was
foundation president way back in 1900. He
claimed never to have missed its annual meeting
for nearly 50 years.
In Brisbane, at 71, well-known Queensland
engineer Hugo Eklund, for the last 15 years
manager of Cement Linings, and, before that,
boss of the Hume Pipe Co. Born in Sweden,
out here at 23, he learnt his theory at the
Ballarat School of Mining and practised it on
many big Queensland engineering projects. His
son is a medico in Nambour.


"Old Guns"
HIS STRANGE
DISEASE.
By MACNELL
THE commissioned gunner was
certain, in his own mind, they
thought him a coward. Which
wasn’t strange, considering he firmly
believed he was one. When you’re the
director-layer of an eight-inch cruiser, the
man who squeezes the electric trigger, in
whose fingers is culminated all the power,
ail the training and experience and
reason for existence of 12,000 tons and
700 men; and when the sight of an
enemy’s masts or wing-flanked nose rest-
ing in the cross-wires of your sight like
a spider in a web turns your guts to
water and sends a paralysis creeping
from your thighs upward, what else are
you but a gutless wonder? A wonder,
because you’ve held down your job for
so long without the gunnery-jack or Old
Man seeing through the bluff of your
measured calm.
“They,” who, he was sure, knew him
for himself, were his gunnery-director’s
crew: the director-trainer, the phone-
number, the inclinator-operator, the
range-taker peering into the metallic
arms that extended his eyes out either
side of the armored director-tower and
focused them, magnified, on the enemy;
and, last and worst of all, the director
control officer, a lieutenant who, at 26,
had the phlegmatic stability and self-
assurance of a man master of his weapon
and of his own confidence. His worries
were bounded by the limits of his mess
wine-bill.
The gunner was 42, old for a junior
officer, and had hauled himself up
through the hawse-pipe into the ward-
room after 20 years of plodding along the
lower-deck. It had not been easy. His
brain could tell you in an instant the
breaking-strain of a steel wire rope, knew
to the exact second when to slip a sea-
boat on the top of a rising swell; but
behind a sextant,* dragging the sun’s
filtered image down to the horizon, and
before the mass of figures denoting
angles, altitudes and seconds of time
which he had to resolve into simple
figures of latitude and longitude, his un-
schooled mind floundered in a sea of
wasted years; wasted, so far as maths
were concerned, since, at 13, he left
school for a baker’s-cart delivery.
Even in navigation he was cowardly.
Why didn’t he admit to the sub-
lieutenants and midshipmen who worked
out their sun-sights in half an hour that
the thing was beyond him? It was not
pride that stopped him. He knew he
could lose them in any subject they
cared to name—gunnery or seamanship—
and knew that not even the most uppish
snotty was ignorant of his brief naviga-
tion course back in Flinders, No, it was
the fear of their scorn, of the half-hidden
grin, of the talk in the gun-room after-
wards; “Poor old Guns. Pity, y’know.
Too old for this sort of thing. All right
with a marlinespike, but maths”
The fear of navigation, of his relieving
watch on the bridge, when the senior
officer of the watch might ask him (with
a “request” gloved round the iron
discipline of a warship’s bridge) to take
a sun- or star-sight, was moral. This
fear, the griping tension that held him
now, was physical.
Thank God it was night. Only the
shaded glimmer from instrument dials
relieved the director’s enclosed darkness,
and his face, pressed hard into the
binocular’s eye-pad, was quite hidden.
SOMEWHERE out there, across a sea
brushed lightly by a cooling wind,
was the enemy. A large ship, probably
cruiser, their warning radar told them.
The Australian cruiser slid through
the night towards Guadalcanal. In her
turrets gun-crews were closed up in the
first degree of readiness, their charges
loaded with semi-armor-piercing shell,
breeches gleaming dully in the electric
light. Down her sides, two sets forrard,
two aft, the long grey snouts sniffed
across the water, reaching above the
flashes of white streaking down her
bilges, a menace in their silent immobility.
High above the bridge, clear of smoke
and spray, the director, too, was pointed
over the port bow, the eyes of all those
guns, which followed where it swung.
This was the master-sight, the eyeless
turrets its slaves. And the kingpin, the
one on whom success or blasting failure
directly depended, was the gunner,
sweating with fear.
“Hey, Guns,” the control-officer spoke
suddenly. “Mow’d you like a couple of
nice gentle ones in the bow, or aft? Not
too savage—just enough for about three
Weeks’ refit leave.”
The gunner cursed his levity, cursed
the nervousness which pulled his eye
away from his sight. He buried his face
again in the rubber eyepiece, while his
tensed brain hit at once on the telling
phrases in the other’s speech.
“.... a couple of nice - gentle ones.*
Not too savage.”
Of course they knew. The young
swine had picked his words deliberately,
and at a time when they would damage.
At that moment the gunner could have
dragged the D.C.O. down from his seat
and pulped his head. If he’d had the
guts. Instead, he muttered, keeping up
the farce of pretence:
“Bit of all-right, eh? What good would
it do you, though? Pickled every night
with some popsy. Catch 'you doing a
duty night for an old married man
like”
A tense command shut him up
abruptly.
* i D ROADSIDES! ”
The gunner’s throat tightened as
though all his insides were pushing up
through his mouth. His eyes stared
through the blackness, every pore of his
body sweating from the strain of keeping
his face pressed into the glasses and his
left hand steady on the laying-wheel.
This was it! How long before their
starshell crashed or the Japs’ shells came
smashing inboard?
This was before radar blind-firing
made night action a mathematical
certainty. Searchlights were worse than
useless —the enemy could range on them
—and starshell from the four-inch would
have to silhouette him against their
slowly-dropping flares. Tonight it
would be the manual efficiency of the
gunner, conning the guns on, that would
mean the ship’s life or death.
The ship jerked. From aft four brief
stabs of flame split the night. Four
seconds, and another salvo sheared high
into the night. Just before the third
crashed, four bursts of light flared in the
heavens, and four swinging flares shed a
livid glow against the clouds and a faint
revealing light on a speeding cruiser, pick-
ing out the rearing superstructure of her
bridgeworks and the fire-hose jet of her
20-knot bow-wave. Target!
“Open fire,” snapped the captain. “Open
fire,” repeated the director phone-
number ; and , “Shoot” ordered the
D.C.O. to the gunner and transmitting
station.
The gunner stared, for minutes it
seemed, in reality seconds, to lay his
cross-wires on her mast or bridge. The
Jap layer would be doing the same to
them. Beside the gunner in their little
box the gun-ready lamps of the eight big
guns burned, telling him, waiting for his
decision. The ship rolled with her speed,
and took his cross-wire down. He
waited. Up it came, slowly at first, then
quicker as the ship recovered. Its spidery
line cut across the enemy’s foremast, in
line with the upper-deck. His. right
fingers squeezed. A tiny current ran
down from trigger to guns. Then the
whole world seemed to explode in a
blinding burst of orange light. The ship
heeled under the thrust of the broadside.
The roar of 5001 b. of cordite releasing
its strength beat across the water. And
the ship settled down smoothly into its
job o*f fighting, enormously enhanced by
having landed the first blow.
Behind the gunner, and above him,
the control officer was watching for his
fall of shot. The first broadside lobbed
short, eight white gouts. He waited.
The second was over. The third of that
initial group, half in the water, half in red
splashes along the Jap’s length. Straddle!
“Rapid broadsides,” the C.O. ordered,
and muttered to himself: “Beautiful
shooting, Guns. Bloody beautiful.
YEARS ago, when shoots were
practice affairs, and there was no
fear of being on the receiving end, the
gunner was known as “Old Hold Her
Harry.” Once on to the target, he held
it so long as ammunition lasted. Now,
even through the excitement of action,
which heightened rather than swamped
his tension, through his supple fingers,
through his laying-wheel, he fastened
those belching muzzles on the surprised
enemy cruiser and held them there until
she was a riven hulk and the cease-fire
bell shrilled its clangor through the
director. Then, wearily, he drew his face
back from the sweat-soaked eyepiece.
The C.O. was jubilant. “Guns, you’re a
bloody marvel!” He ran on, voice crack-
ing with relaxed tension. “She didn’t
have a bumper’s chance. That first
broadside —boy, you held her like a —like
a—oh, I’m damned if I know, but she
didn’t have a chance. Not a hope of ice
in hell.”
The gunner turned his head up, and
managed a grin, a mere creasing of his
sweat-shining face. “A bloody marvel,”
was he? The young mongrel. A bloody
marvel; when his whole body felt like a
pull-through, and he had hardly the
strength to lift his bulk from his seat.
When the after-effects of his fright were
the only strength left in him, striving still
to overmaster his outward calm and
swamp him in hysteria. The only thing
marvellous about it was the fact that he
was still at his action station, that he had
retained sufficient calm ’ to sight and fire
his guns at all. And, damn and rot their
hides, they knew it!
God, he needed rest—long, fearless
nights away from this hell of constant
battling with the weakness whose fear
of revealing was even worse than its
actuality within him. But in his recogni-
tion of the need for a spell from active
war, it never occurred to him that he had
had an overdose of action, too long of
hostile days and nights afloat ; the
recognition of what possessed him blotted
out all other reasoning but the knowledge
that he had it.
Limp as he was, he wished he had a
watch to keep for the rest of the night.
On the bridge, with the sky too cloudy
for dreaded star-sights, he could keep
active, physically, marking off distances
run, checking the gyro course, talking to
the principal control officer. As it was,
there was nothing but bed. Too late to
talk in the mess—most officers would
be closed up at fighting positions, in any
case, with the possibility of enemy craft
still around —too obvious if he walked
the quarter-deck alone, when all others
would bel seeking bunks. His old friend
the stores-gunner would hardly welcome
his company, flat-out as he would be
replenishing and cheeking ammunition.
So bed it was, and the torture of reliving
that half-hour in the director.
HIS face a mask, he walked aft
between decks, where the ammuni-
tion-supply parties were busy striking
down empty four-inch cartridge cylinders.
Near the magazine hatch they stood
aside to let him pass. An old three-
badgeman nudged a youngster.
“There’s the bloke whaf done the mK
Old Hold Her Harry. Look «
Calm as they come He gets his teeTh
into one of those yeller & and a bull
dog s a pansy compared to ’im. a bit of
a snag if he’s on the gangway when vou
come aboard blotto ; but you don ? t mind
a blast from ’im; not when you know
he’d just as soon smear you over the
paintwork if you get uppish. Remember
that, me sparrer. You picks a fighter if
you picks old Harry.”
The youngster, wondering, looked
along the dim passage after the spear-
like figure, watched in admiration till it
disappeared into a cabin.
NEXT day before dawn the ship
closed up at action, not merely be-
cause that was the routine, but because
this morning the vast fleet, of which the
cruiser had been an outrider flung
protectingly to starboard, would disgorge
its men and guns and supplies on to
Guadalcanal beach. There was little
doubt among the cruiser’s complement
what would be flung back at them.
Full light came to reveal the armada,
heading slowly towards the island, the
harsh ugliness of the battleships, the
rakish beauty of the cruisers and the
lumbering sufficiency of the transports,
crammed to the rails.
The gunner’s ship was on the seaward
screen, and turned suddenly to port,
away from the convoy. Shortly after,
the loudspeakers throughout her length
cleared their throats with a metallic
crackle: the captain’s voice came through,
clipped and cojicise.
“This is the captain speaking. We
have been ordered to patrol 10 miles to
seaward of the landing beach. Bad
luck, but I want to remind you that
attacking enemy planes will have to fly
over us to get at the landing force. You
won’t miss much. Anti-aircraft arma-
ment will remain closed up in the first
degree. Turret crews may fall out, but
are to remain in the immediate vicinity of
their turrets —they may be required tor
an eight-inch barrage against dive-
bombers. That’s all.”
The gunner was at the back of the
bridge, ready to dive into his director.
He decided to stay where he was. it
wouldn’t be much help, watching wtiat
was coming, but at least he could move
about, talk to somebody, blast the_ lo ° k '
outs, instead of being cooped up m tne
iron prison of the director, llst^
the C.O.’s healthy facetiousness, knowmg
to what it was directed, and suffering
wondering, ill-concealed , starc .
ordinary - seaman mchnator - operate ,
poor kid, no doubt he looked to turn tor
encouragement. He was a mer »
more than 17. The davtot
sea two years by his 17th d J the
fear in those days was coined Jo
chief bosun’s mates seaboot, th
none of the insistent, ever pr
possibility of being blown to hel.
SUDDENLY he was
shout. Fear, moment V their
by the comparative q{
position and the calm a Jn a
morning swept back thr g
blood-draining surge. “Bridge!
It was the port a.a. looko t. five
Bearing Red two oh. AngJ
oh. Large group aircr a n. irty or
There they were, far S ng slowly
so remote silver shapes, ma jestic,
up the dome of the sKy
terrible serenity.
The bridge bummed. oV er,
It seemed the flight es> three
on to the beaches, until f r e P last 0 f the
bombers and a fi gh * d beaded f°
nearer wing, detached
them. « hear d the fo ur ' ID L
The gunner hardly h a inate d, at th
open. He was staring, »
(i Continued on paS e 222)


LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established 1808 in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle
of Waterloo, and has em-
erged from them all with
greater strength and pres-
tige.
FIRE accident marine
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
8
( England )
atlas BUILDINGS,
SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
V. MIERS, Manager, N.S.W.
“• V. ELDER, Assistant Manager
'SAustralia and New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT, Manager
rorAustralia and New Zealand.
Missing Friend.
TO KEITH ALVIN MURDOCH formerly
of Mildura and Dareton (New South
Wales) later of Healesville. —TAKE
NOTICE that your wife JESSIE ALMA
ALEXANDRIA MURDOCH has instituted
proceedings against you for divorce on
the ground of desertion Unless you enter
an appearance in the Prothonotary’s
Office Supreme Court Melbourne on or
before the sth day of July 1950 and
file an answer on or before the 15th day
of July 1950 the case may proceed in
your absence and you may be ordered to
pay costs.—MULLETT & LANGFORD,
Solicitors, 395 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO LESLIE BERNARD SHARPE late
of Crows Nest.—TAKE NOTICE that
WINIFRED ELSIE SHARPE has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 813 of 1950 on
the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 9th day of August 1950 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from R. G. B. TEMPLEMAN,'
Solicitor, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUQHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO JAMES McMENAMIN late of Smith-
town N.S.W.—TAKE NOTICE that
HILDA NANCY McMENAMIN has filed
a Petition for DivorCe No. 908 of 1950
on the grounds of your desertion for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 20th October 1950
and obtain a copy of the Petition free
of charge from MESSRS. HERON
ROBERTSON PARKHILL & ROFE, Soli-
citors, 12 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—
J. DOUQHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO VICTOR JAMES GUNNING late
of Karoolas Street Dee Why.—TAKE
NOTICE that EVELYN MELITA GUN-
NING has filed Petition No. 667 of 1950
in which she prays for a divorce on the
ground of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse
and asks for the exercise of the Court’s
discretion under Section 19 (2) (a) of
the Matrimonial Causes Act, 1899 If
you wish to defend you may file an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
21st August 1950 and obtain a copy of
the Petition from LESLIE RUNDLE,
Solicitor, of 66 King Street, Sydney.—
J. DOUQHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Matrimonial Causes No. 233 of 1950.
BETWEEN VIVIAN FRANZ STIELOW
Plaintiff and DORIS STIELOW Defend-
ant and ALAN ARMSTRONG Co-De-
fendant. TO ALAN ARMSTRONG ad-
dress unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that
the abovenamed Plaintiff has named you
as a party in the proceedings and that
unless within forty (40) clear days after
the date of publication of this Notice
you or a Solicitor on your behalf file in
the Central Office of the Supreme Court
Perth in the State of Western Australia
a statement of your defence to the Plain-
tiff’s Writ of Summons the Court may
proceed with the hearing of the action
and you will not be entitled to be heard
except by special leave of the Court A
copy of the Writ of Summons and of
the Notice herein may be obtained by
you free of charge from L. O. WOOD. 42
Saint George’s Terrace, Perth, in the
State of Western Australia, the Solicitor
for the Plaintiff. Dated this 29th day of
May One thousand nine hundred and fifty.
—Q, J. BOYLSON, Registrar.
Of- ne&eX
For over 100 years every drop
of Dewar's Whisky has been
distilled and; blended in Scot-
land, by acknowledged Mas-
• ters of tbe Art.
Dewar’s famous “White
Label” Scotch Whisky never
varies ... its distinctive char-
acter, mellow flavour and rich,
heart-warming qualities have
made it world renowned.
DEWAR'S
"WBttc Label”
Shmcnu,. SCOTCH
50 Cold
and
Prize Mefccl*
50 Gold
and
Prize Medals
MS
DEWAR A SONS. LTD »“'***/ ID»
a*® 51 *
ft-ms
“White Label
A Fine Scotch WhiskV
OF RARE AGE. .
John Dewar & Sons B-
DISTILLERS
D| ®“' Hou«t H cumoriit!. SM. p Scotland
CII.d. NET CONTENTS 1 PINT. 6FL OZS. „ nTIUI O
.wtMWfEB’ WHOLLY DISTILLED. MATURED AND BUNDED W SCQI
SUNDRY SHOWS
"Harvey."
A white rabbit six and a half
feet high, named Harvey, is
dominating the boards at the
Comedy Theatre, Melbourne. It
belongs to Mr. Joe E. Brown,
or rather, to Mr. Brown’s
imagination, but so powerfully
persuasive is his imagination
that he eventually makes every-
body see it, including William
r. Chumley, M.D., the eminent
psychiatrist to whom he is taken
to be ridded of his rabbit by the
fashionable shock treatment.
Mary Chase’s play is really a
sad play, though extraordinarily
funny. It is unadulterated non-
sense and yet has some measure
of truth in it, which probably ex-
plains its five years’ run in New
York. Joe has his hallucination
—a white rabbit —with which,
along with rum, he solaces him-
self for the tyranny of existence.
He is supremply happy while he
has his rabbit and his rum, feels
much more indulgent to other
human beings than they do to
him, and full of benignity to-
wards the world in general.
With the best intentions in
the world, everybody wants to
take his rabbit from him ; but, as
he justly says, what are they go-
ing to give him to replace it?
They are wanting to make his
world as .humdrum as their own
or as unpleasant as the psychi-
atrist’s world, which is full of
rabbits of a different order, in-
cluding shock treatment, and he
resists them with all the cunning
of his nature. Eventually he
gets his sister put into the
phychiatric ward instead of him-
self, while he goes out with the
psychiatrist to a night-club and
introduces him to a world of
alcoholic happiness and friend-
liness the psychiatrist never knew
existed. Mr. Chumley, M.D.,
finally returns to his consulting-
rooms half-seas-over and in
temporary possession of Joe’s
rabbit.
Everyone wants to make Joe
normal; but, he asks, what is
normal? Is Judge Omar Gaffney
normal? He is a very unpleasant
person. Joe’s sister is finally
convinced that they had better
leave Joe with his rabbit when
a taxi-driver tells her that he
has found that the patients he
takes to the psychiatrists for
treatment are much nicer people
when they have their excuses
than they are when they have had
their excuses taken from them.
Mr. Brown is undoubtedly a
comedian of presence. He
obviously loves what he is doing
and believes in it, or he couldn’t
have done it with so much zest
at his 1030th performance, which
was when The Bulletin saw
him. He likes human beings,
and likes entertaining them so
much that after the performance
he drew a chair up to the foot-
lights, settled himself comfort-
ably in it and talked to the audi-
ence about three turtles in a bar
for 20 minutes until the turtles
lived as much as Harvey, and
nobody wanted to go home,
though three minutes of the
average curtain-speech would
start them looking towards the
exits.
Frances Bavier, as the sister
of Harvey’s owner, proved her-
self an admirable and ingratiat-
ing actress. '
Mermaids, Etc.
A delicacy of perception and
technique puts Arthur Murch’s
“Frolic” in a class by itself in a
mixed exhibition at Sydney
Macquarie Galleries, With
some of Murch’s stylised nudes
or nymphs or naiads —one really
does not know what is the
correct term for a mermaid with
legs instead of a tail —frolicking
in a smother of foam, it is not
a realistic painting but a distil-
lation of reality into a fresh and
lyrical poetry. Feminine grace
and silvery light and foam are
caught up in a single charming
image.
A Rupert Bunny “Harem,”
full of fat ladies and sumptuous
color, offers a strange contrast
in its heavy sensuality; but a
broad view of life should be
able to encompass harems as
well as mermaids, and the
picture is, in fact, strikingly de-
corative. So, too —with the re-
servation that to turn flowers
into masses of vivid oil-paint is
a cruder form of artistry than
turning oil-paint into flowers —is
Matthew Smith’s “The Red
Bowl.”
Lloyd Rees’s “Autumn Even-
ing, Bathurst,” is a powerful
exercise in his harsh manner,
where he gets down to the bare
bones of the earth—lately one
had thought he was beginning
to enrich and animate the earth
again—and Roland Wakelin’s
typically heavy “Sabroan Road”
has an unusually effective im-
pression of light striking on a
distant patch of bush. One
might contrast with these
William Nicholson’s “The
Wedgwood Cup” which, like a
single line —a single phrase —
from the “Ode to a Grecian
Urn,” sets its frail piece of
pottery against eternity ; but the
Nicholson, unlike the Murch, is
ice-cold.
A number of Drysdale
sketches, mere preparations for
paintings, were hardly worth
exhibiting, but two of the draw-
ings—a fat soldier at a tele-
phone, and an old man with a
pipe, whiskers and an air of out-
raged indignation —are excellent
studies in character.
Tito Schipa.
It is 13 years since the Italian
tenor was in Sydney, and time
has been easy on the man and
the voice. Obviously in first-
class physical shape, Schipa
shrewdly employs his good-
quality, easily-produced lyric
tenor in a manner calculated to
put the least strain on it.
His speciality is the mezzw
voce, and this he uses with
great skill. He tried it out in
the first four songs of his open-
ing Sydney recital. Pergolesi’s
“Nina” was almost a breathed
rhapsody, with perfect phrasing.
In Scarlatti’s “Sento Nel Core”
and “Le Violette” the emphasis
was on ardor, and managed
very well. Caccini’s “Amarillo”
was a long vocal caress.
An operatic group included
the Duke’s despairing “Ella Mi
Fu Rapito” from “Rigoletto,”
given the works in the accepted
manner of the true disciple of
the bel Canto school. Schipa’s
anxiety to avoid a punishing
high note was evident in his
taking a climactic lower one in
“Una Furtiva Lagrima,” but
the aria brought out a fine
example of legato singing, never-
theless.
With the vocal heavies behind
him, the tenor, happy at being
back in Naples, launched into
southern Italian folk-songs with
great verve. There is one good
thing about Schipa and his voice
—he sings as if he thoroughly
enjoys it; and that’s how a song
should be sung.
Campoli.
Alfredo Campoli is a fiddler of
the first magnitude. His bowing
is a delight to watch, and the
combined speed and ' clarity
which characterises his use of
the “bouncing” bow is an eye-
opener. It is unlikely that
any living violinist could conjure
a tone of greater depth and
mellowness than he does from
the G string, while, climbing
over more than four octaves to
the extreme reaches of his
instrument, as in Bazzini’s “La
Ronde des Lutins,” his tone
soared clear as a lark and as
fine as gossamer.
Campoli started off his Syd-
ney season with the Tartini G
Minor Sonata, a scholarly work
treated in scholarly yet warm
manner. The unaccompanied
Bach Chaconne gave the violin-
ist a chance not only to display
his extensive technical equip-
ment but to demonstrate his
intellectual gifts no mere
mechanics here. Cesar Franck’s
beautiful A Major Sonata,
polished and glittering, was
marked by the fine balance
held in the dialogue by the fiddle
and the piano, played with excel-
lent taste by Margaret Schofield.
Justus Bonn.
This Dutch tenor with the
commanding presence has a
voice that really should be a
baritone. He is certainly at his
happiest in those songs which
don’t demand flights into the
stratosphere, and, at his Sydney
recital, his best work was put
into Cesar Franck’s “Panes An-
gelicus,” a song set mostly in
the middle gamut
With Mozart Bonn is not at
home —his voice hasn’t the light
flexibility to cope adequately
with “II Mio Tesoro,” though he
made a better showing in “Die
Bildniss Arie” from “The Magic
Flute.” Nor was the bracket of
four Schubert songs quite suc-
cessful.
In the two main tenor arias
from “Tosca” the singer made a
good impression, with fine
power from the chest and,
around G and A, ringing notes.
The air from “Martha” nvas
taken at a much slower tempo
than usual.
"Pelleas and
Melisande."
Debussy’s only opera is a
paradox in that though
modernistic in its treatment —he
bars the old-established aria and
the concerted number, while the
“music” concentrates on the
dreamily impressionistic—it is
already a museum piece. For
every time it is performed
throughout the world such
operas as “Faust,” “Carmen” and
“The Marriage of Figaro” are
produced 100 times and more.
In short, the public doesn’t
seem to want it, and the reasons
were made quite plain when
the Sydney Conservatorium
Opera School put it on for the
first time in Australia last Satur-
day night. The plot is anaemic
and the text not very intelligent.
The “music” will probably be
remembered only by those who
have to sing it.
The action drags itself
through five acts and 12
tableaux, three or four of which
have the merit of being brief.
One, indeed, consists solely of a
character taking another down
a short flight of steps to look at
a hole in the ground, which
doesn’t appear to be germane to
the rest of the doings.
As Melisande, Valerie Simpson
maintained a wooden expression
and had difficulty in knowing
what to do with her hands.
Ronal Jackson tried to inject
some passion into his excellent
singing and acting, but the dead
weight of it all was too much
for him. John Dudley’s Pelleas
was a likeable voice wasted on
the desert airs; Frank Lisle was
suitably sluggish as the old
king. Eugene Goossens con-
ducted and produced.


More promises,
Mr. McGirr?
More " sod-turning. more plans, more
yes, but with what results ?
LOOK AT THESE:
THE PLAN
• SCHOOLS: £20,000,000
• HOSPITALS: £20,000,000
• LAKE MACQUARIE POWER
HOUSE: £16.000,000
• EASTERN SUBURBS RAILWAY:
£44,000.000
• THE MEDICAL CENTRE:
£2,000,000
DATE OF COMPLETION AT
THIS RATE OF PROGRESS
Year:
1978 27 years
1975 25 years
2014 64 years
2181 231 years
NEVER!
You deserve the sack , Mr. McGirr
on payment by results!
Let's get on with the job
for commonsense in State Government
OT
V
LIBERAL
HAVE YOUR SAY ON POLLING DAY - 17th JUNE
Authorised by J. L Carrick. 30 Ash St., Sydney.
Divorce Notices#
iiliE
1 «snUTH WALES— Ist Divorce,
ELOISE BRENNAN has flled gw
for Divorce No. 3yy . , ,• gt eause or
ground of d^o"r; s th a ° n U d ’upwards If
excuse.lor three years ana r M
the Petition without charg ? lrtin Place,
li%ssfs®ror«
* SOUTH ok C h -o Mas
3 william Notice
OUNG late of Ban^% E LiNß EMMA
tat ESTHER for Divorce
OUNG has Wed a PeWi dof *.
o 1588 of 1960 on tne s . g W ith-
■rtion for three y ea * s * d xf P you wish to
lit just cause or eX ™ se appearance m
efend you may Court Syd-
le Divorce Registry Y „,g an( i obtain
Vl&PBkt§s
UGHAN i JW!^^
THE SUPREME pivorce. „
CUFFoW WffIT%SgiDSJ
tTICB that MARY ELIZABETH igso
•F has filed Petition No. dese rtion
N. has nieu grounds oi “ iust
s w gfS* “'STS"
°V X ent!r » m
ma y l n : „?rv Supreme. Court
'REDERICK GARDES » ICB g
ffvaSfc&s'SfS,*
rf r^{,ss
sTacS wrfej
day of Without
: Sydney.—'• vv
silver butterflies pinned against
the blue of the sky. But he saw
the first broadside flower, sud-
denly, four black puffs with a
vicious flick of flame in the
centre of each, below and to the
right. He thought he saw the
bombs drop, black specks
spawned from the nearer plane s
belly. A second later he was
sure. Instinct, stronger even
than a lifetime’s training, urged
his shout:
“Bridge! Bombs dropping!”
The captain acknowledged
with a lift of one hand, "and,
almost in the same breath as his
order to the wheelhouse,
ordered: “Bridge personnel take
cover.”
I OOKOUTS, officer of the
L watch, signalmen, headed
for the charthouse, leaving the
captain and navigator beside the
binnacle.
“Come on. Guns!” yelled the
officer of the watch. “You had
your share last night.”
The gunner stood rooted where
he was, his eyes fixed on the
rapidly-approaching blobs.
They hurtled closer, resolving
into black streaks too fast to
follow as they neared the water.
Close on the port side the sea
lifted itself in a forest of dis-
colored water, dirty-brown at
the base and smoky at the top.
tiie blast of the explosion shook
the ship like a leaf. She steadied,
and ploughed on, still on the
avoiding turn.
The four-inch had shifted
target to the following bomber,
but he was already on his run
in. The first of his stick lobbed
well ahead. The remainder
stalked on spouting legs towards
her. With horrible certainty the
gunner knew the last would get
her. It landed beside “B” turret
below the bridge and exploded
upward in a shearing blast that
ripped the fore-end of the bridge
to slivers and almost decapitated
the navigator. An acrid stench
of burnt explosive blew into the
gunner’s face.
The captain was leaning on
what was left of the binnacle
trying to wipe the blood from
his eyes with one arm. He was
acting like a dazed child, making
futile little movements with his
hand, his head nodding foolishly.
The other arm hung useless.
The gunner was impelled for-
ward by an urge he could not
have analysed even had he the
time and will to think, • It was
the driving impulse of long-in-
grained training, surmounting
even the unreasoning fear that
till then had rooted him to the
rear of the bridge like a
stanchion. That, and perhaps
something else.
WHEN he reached the captain
the Old Man had recovered
some semblance of sense.
“You, Guns,” he croaked.
“Stand-by the voice-pipe. Here’s
the other one.”
He strained his head skyward.
“Stand-by. Stand-by. Hard-
a-starb’d.”
The gunner, crouched oyer
the wheelhouse voice-pipe,
roared the order. For ages the
ship’s sterfi held its course, then
swung slowly, then with in-
creased momentum, to starb’d.
She missed the first of the stick,
but swung her stern in under
the .rest. Two bombs exploded
on her after-part with a force
that seemed to check her in mid-
swing. When she’d completed
it the after-funnel top hung
drunkenly over the four-inch
gun-deck and a pall of black
smoke drifted swiftly astern. But
she was still alive.
The four-inch were too slow
for the fighter, but the forrard
oerlikons met him. A lacework
of tracer glowed as plane and
target exchanged fire. The
plane’s first bullets ripped the
wooden foc’s’le deck ; as its nose
pulled up to clear her masts a
whining blast of lead swept the
bridge, spanged viciously from
wind-break and fittings. The
gunner, still at the binnacle, met
the hail upright—there’s not
much else you can do when
you’re completely incapable of
moving. Then the Jap was over-
head in a bellow of sound and
dwindling to a winged dot far
astern, following the bombers
to the beach.
The first-aid party, rushed to
the bridge, found a dead navi-
gator, an almost unconscious
captain, a shaken chart-house
party emerging on the sh. u.
and a gunner clinmn aml> ies
bimuclef wild-etTL 10 ,' he
moving in a wordless „ui lps
Every man, like everyron^-
j-the landing esfaWiSiEd tild
ssrsarA-ia
emergency, his action station «
m the lower-conningiowe n r W S
the bowels of the ship) ’ £
cruiser steamed out to L
bury her dead. The mmnl 1
flaked out in his
with a hypodermic gged
He was transhipped next
morning to an empty transSS
heading south, The atter-C
session in the wardroom smoke
room was the director-eoatrol
officer s first opportunity
“You should have "seen the
old boy,” he started quietly Him
«* ‘“hisfeet, “Standing along!
Slde^ he ™ m ? aC ] e as if were
on the Manly ferry. And he’d
been there since the first one
tell. Not a move. Guts? He
was rotten with it. I was behind
four inches of armor-plate He
was behind his skin. The Old
Man was just as spunky, of
course. They both could have
run down into the wheel-house
Perhaps there wasn’t time, per-
haps blokes like that just don’t
think of running anywhere. Or
maybe old Guns has been at sea
so long he treats action like a
practice shoot. I’ve seen a few
things in my time—you can grin
your bloody face off, Torps—
but old Guns standing there, as
though he had the color guard
—well, I just won’t forget it in
a hurry, I tell you. All I know
is I hope they both come back.
Eh, Doc., what about it? What’s
the chances?”
The surgeon - commander,
listening to the enthusiasm in
his sacrosanct comer armchair,
tapped his pipe slowly into one
palm.
“I don’t know,” he answered
thoughtfully, “whether you
young fellows noticed anything
about old Guns lately? Not a
thing? No, I don’t suppose you
would —he not being the kind to
hoist his signals. But I’ve had
my eye on him for some time.
Eh? Serious? Oh no, nothing
that a good spell ashore won’t
clear up. I diagnosed his case
easily enough ; ought to have—
there’s plenty of it around.”
He paused fo*r effect, stuffing
and lighting his pipe before he
went on.
“Our gunner, you see, was
suffering from an overdose of
bravery.”


cm:-, o
mm
%
KEROSENE ENGINE PARTS
m
iilik
in
II
Dimensions of relative parts in these 3 pictures are in exact proportion
m
lePPSSb
■ -9 w
* • m-
■«
m
rM '
!
7
BULLDOG ENGINE PARTS
““ DIESEL ENGINE PARTS
Z3Hi~ • v
BULLPOCf simplified construction REDUCES wear and maintenance to a minimum!
High speed, complicated Kerosene engines
The parts of a 4-cylinder Kerosene engine shown above number
over 5 times those in a Lanz or K.L Bulldog. All this intricate
mechanism operating at high speeds of 1200 to 1500 r.p.m. is apt
to wear or break down under tough tractor conditions, thus requiring
constant attention and adjustment or replacement of. delicate parts.
Another great weakness in this type of engine is the unburnt kero-
sene fuel which destroys cylinder lubricant, causing crankcase dilution
and excessive wear. This cannot occur in the Bulldog engine where
only heavy crude oils are used for fuel.
Slow speed, single cylinder Bulldog
Above are the simple, robust parts from the two-stroke, valveless
Bulldog engine. The one piston revs, at only 540 to 630 r.p.m., with
a compression of only 120 lbs. as against 625 lbs. per sq. inch in
the Diesel engine. The same travels within its cylinder a
distance of 12 miles each hour multi-cylinder pistons of Kerosene
and Diesel engines travel 50 miles every hour. The primary parts
of the Bulldog make 97,200 movements, compared with 1,287,000 move-
ments every hour in 4-cylinder engines. No wonder Bulldogs mini-
mize wear by reducing these astronomical movements.
Sensitive, high compression Diesel engines
The complicated design of a 4-cylinder Diesel engine demands all
the parts in the picture above. Many of these are extremely deli-
cate sensitive even to hand temperature. They are bound to wear
at many vulnerable points, subsequently requiring regular overhauls
and replacement of very expensive parts. This type of engine ope-
rates at high speeds of 1100 to 1200 r.p.m., with high pressures in
the cylinders and fuel pump, and demands the purest of fuels because
the slightest wear causes engine inefficiency, higher fuel consumption,
imperfect combustion and difficult starting.
3
£l4 REPAIR BILL
IN 12 YEARS
writes Hr. C. Gable of Boort, Vic.
‘The only cost of repairs
and replacements to my
12-year-old Lanz Bulldog
Tractor was approximately
T-!4, when the engine itself
was overhauled about 2 years
°go. The gears and dif-
' forential have never been
j uncovered. I am still using
f tfle original hot bowl."
BULLDOG OWNERS SAVE UP TO £l5O EVERY YEAR ON TRACTOR RUNNING COSTS
Save £2O on Maintenance
Analyst* of hundreds of Bulldog
Tractor owners' running costs
establish their average mainten-
ance bill at £lO per year. A most
conservative estimate, based on
actual records, of average main-
tenance and repair costs on Ke-
rosene and Diesel Tractors is £3O
per year. Bulldog Tractor ope-
ration saves easily £2O per year
on other tractor running costs.
Save £BO on FUEL
Bulldog's amazing economy of
operation on crude oil, the cheap-
est of fuels, can save you up to
£SO per year on the annual fuel
costs of Petrol, Kerosene or Diesel
Tractors. This saving alone over
10 years goes a long, way towards
paying back your initial invest-
ment in a Bulldog.
Save £5O on Depreciation
because of long life
Compare the depreciation of a Bull-
dog against that of a Kerosene
Tractor. Bulldog's annual depre-
ciation is computed at £50 — Kero-
sene and Diesel Tractors at £lOO.
Thus Bulldogs save you an addi-
tional £5O every year —the result of
which is a resale value far higher
than that of Kerosene, Petrol or
Diesel Tractors of similar h.p. rating.
/t
Contact your State Distributor:
NEW SOUTH WALES: Hangar, Gedye & Malloch, Ltd., 10-14
Young Street, Sydney. VICTORIA: K. L. Tractor Sales Pty.,
Ltd., 314 Spencer Street, Melbourne. QUEENSLAND: K. L.
Tractor Sales Pty., Ltd., 121 Brunswick Street, The Valley,
Brisbane. SOUTH AUSTRALIA; Elder Smith & Co., Ltd., 27-31
Currie Street, Adelaide. WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Kelly & Lewis
(W.A.) Pty., Ltd., 349 William Street, Perth. TASMANIA:
K. L. Distributors Pty., Ltd., 233 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
KL&M/I.ANZ
BIIUDOC
CfuuU Oil mcroM
FttE!
NAME
ADDRESS 1
This illustrated leaflet celling the full story
about Bulldog’s amazing SIMPLICITY. Send 1
for it NOW I
Inigo Jones writes on
Sunspots and Cycles
THE great importance of
some foreknowledge of
the vagaries of the weather
has been appreciated from
time immemorial, and is referred
to in the pages of Holy Writ. In
more recent times predictions
have been made by astrologers
and others, those of Old Moore
being proverbial. It also seems
probable that the records of the
Kilometer were used for this
purpose by the priests of Isis ;
but the first reference to it was
during the Renaissance, and
made by Sir Francis Bacon in
his book Novum Organum. In
this he drew attention to a cycle
of about 35 years, when great
droughts, great floods and great
heat and frosts were repeated,
and advised a closer study of
the matter.
About the same time the sun-
spots were discovered by Galileo
with his telescope, though their
existence had been noted at odd
times for a number of centuries ;
but Galileo and his brother-
astronomers were not encouraged
to pursue the study. So, until
1750, very few sunspot observa-
tions were made, and it was not
till the apothecary Schwabe
from 1823-43 made daily obser-
vations of the sun that the fact
that at times there were many
spots, at others few or none,
was found to be periodic. When
the great Herschel suggested
that this variation might be con-
nected with various mundane
matters he was, in spite of his
great reputation, looked upon
as, in that respect, at any rate,
eccentric, and the matter received
scant attention.
It was not till 1873 that the
British Astronomer Royal
Christie instituted at Greenwich
Royal Observatory a series of
daily observations; but the
climate of England is not very
favorable, and only about 120
observations were obtainable
each year and hardly any in the
winter months. He therefore, in
1883, secured other observations
at Capetown and in India, and
since then the daily record is
complete and the sunspot period
has been clearly established and
is now observed at a very large
number of observatories. This
complete information is avail-
able for scientific workers all
over the world.
In the ’eighties the Austrian
scientist Bruckner was asked by
the Russian Imperial Govern-
ment to investigate the changing
levels of the Caspian Sea, as
these caused great embarrass-
ment to the ships using that
water ; he found that this change
took place in a period of about
35 years. He then studied the
many European weather obser-
vations in the same connection
and found that this period was
to be discerned running through
the whole of the accumulated
data. He published his findings
in a book in Vienna in 1891.
This book was sent to the
then Postmaster - General of
Queensland, Theodore Unmack,
and from its study he called
upon the Queensland Govern-
ment Meteorologist, Clement
Lindley Wragge, to issue sea-
sonal or long-range forecasts for
the State. The result was later
the famous outline of the sea-
sons up to 1932, which has been
the subject of so much discus-
sion.
Mr. Wragge was commis-
sioned by the Queensland Gov-
ernment to report on the
Queensland meteorological ser-
vices ; this report was presented
in 1886, with a great many
recommendations for the im-
provement of these services.
Wragge was then appointed
Government Meteorologist and
proceeded to put his suggestions
into practice.
It was through Wragge that I
was brought into the study of
the problem. The next Post-
master-General was J. G. Drake,
and as both men were friends of
my father, Wragge came to our
house quite soon after his
appointment and seemed to take
INIGO JONES.
a deal of notice of me. Soon
after I began to take observa-
tions for him, so that my own
daily records now extend from
June 3, 1887, to the present
time.
In 1888 my parents gave some
thought to my career, and Mr.
Wragge suggested that, instead
of my going to the university at
Sydney, I should come to him.
This I did in September, 1888,
and from then onward I had
the great advantage of studying
as a cadet under my revered
chief, whose work it has been
my hope to complete.
Mr. Wragge based his predic-
tion on the cycle found by
Bruckner and that of the sun-
spots as first found by Schwabe,
but as this seemed to be very
irregular, there was not a defi-
nite datum-point for the cycles,
and there was then no idea as
to how to overcome this very
serious defect. I remained with
Mr. Wragge till 1892, when a
complete change took place in
our affairs. My father
decided to retire from his
profession of civil engineer
and move to the country.
In pursuit of that plan he
found and bought some land
which he named Croham-
hurst, and there I joined him
in September, 1892, Destiny
seems to have smiled upon this
change, as in February of the
next year I observed the record
rainfall for Australia —35.714
inches in 24 hours on February
2, 1893.
I had brought all mv own
instruments wine, and these
included, wifi weather cut-
fit, a JDollor efracdng tele-
scope, with wfi fill observe
the sunspots from to Cay.
The remarkable rainfall at
once showed me that I had come
to a very unusual locality and
one that was most highly sensi-
tive to weather changes and
effects.
Then began a part of my life
which has had a great bearing on
the problem that I now think I
have solved, and it consisted of
a strong practical knowledge of
the actual effects that weather
has on the lives and prospects
of the pioneer farmer. These I
would never have fully realised
in the offices of the observatory.
After being through the extreme
flood years of the ’nineties, and
then, as a contrast, the great
drought of 1898-1905,1 saw how
important it would be if these
circumstances could be fore-
known. X determined to devote
myself to the problem.
At that time there was no clue
to the answer, and the essays I
made were not very satisfactory
until in 1923, using the factor
of the winter temperature, I
forecasted the duration of a dry
spell that was then giving
trouble, and was very close to
fact in my estimate. From then
on the work began to take up
almost my whole time. Later I
received from a friend the book
Earth and Sun, by Professor
Ellsworth Huntington, of Yale
University, in which these rela-
tionships to date were stated.
From this point my advances
were very rapid, as, by using
the account of the experiment
of the physicist Birkeland
on the cause of the sun-
spots, I developed my funda-
mental theory—namely, that the
(Continued on page 33.)


The “Australia First” Affair
“During the war the Labor Govern-
ment had made tragic mistakes in
the treatment accorded individuals ffl
the investigation of the Australia
First Movement.” —Senator J . /. Arm-
strong, as reported by the “S. M.
Herald,” May 31, 1950.
Senator Armstrong was per-
fectly accurate in his statement.
The “Labor” Government’s mis-
takes in connection with the so-
called Australia First cases were
certainly tragic—for the men
concerned, if not for the Labor
Government. One man died be-
fore he was cleared.
The story is astounding in
view of “Labor’s” present con-
cern that the rights and liberties
of Communists should be pre-
served in the Communist Dis-
solution Bill.
Supporting an entirely Com-
munist-organised campaign to
free from internment two con-
victed Communist party officials
caught red-handed plotting “a
guerrilla movement growing in
space and time” to undermine
the war effort. Dr, Evatt, then
a member of the War Advisory
Council, in July, 1941, declared;
We think where Australian citizens
are alleged to be guilty they should
be prosecuted in the ordinary course.
These men were detained on the
fiat of the Minister. They were not
charged with any offence. They are
not entitled to open trial In all
respects the course of justice is com-
pletely forgotten It is apparent
that if the authorities cannot be
influenced by a sense of fair play they
will hardly be affected by the motive
of compassion, although one of
the men is a returned soldier and in
poor health Provocative as is the
Government’s action, I sincerely hope
the trade-unions and the great mass
of the Australian people who believe
in liberal precepts will control their
indignation and resentment and leave
it to Parliament to take appropriate
action in the near future.
Coming into office in October,
1941, Messrs. Evatt and Forde
were at once asked to consider
the cases. Within ten days
Ratliff and Thomas were free.
Messrs. Evatt and Forde justi-
fied the release of the two Com-
munists on the ground that
“their release under bonds
given on their behalf, and on
undertakings given by them, will
remove a source of friction and
will promote rather than hinder
production in war services.”
The “Gestapo” Regulation
With the agitation for the re-
lease of Ratliff and Thomas
the Communists had carried on
a bitter campaign for the repeal
of Section 26 of the National
Security Regulations, under
which the internments were
effected, and under which,
according to a pamphlet issued
by a committee on which Dr.
Evatt’s private secretary and
several leading Communist
officials sat, a “Gestapo” had
been established and “concentra-
tion camps had come to Aus-
tralia.”
Mr. Fitzpatrick’s Civil Liber-
ties Council reported that “after
conversations with the Attorney-
General, Dr. Evatt, in October,
the Emergency Committee of the
Civil Liberties Council submitted
to him, on November 8, 1941,
proposals for the amendment of
N. S. (General) Regulation 26,
under which Ratliff and
Thomas had been arbitrarily in-
terned” . . .
Then, quite suddenly, there
was a complete volte-face.
“Australia First” Founded
On October 20 a man named
Percy R. Stephensen, a former
Rhodes Scholar, who, in his
youth, had learned enough
about the Communist party to
become its strong opponent, held
a meeting to form a body which
he called the Australia First
Movement, the plans of which
were five months later set out
when war with Japan was in
being, as follows:
(1) National non-party Government
and no party legislation during war
emergency. (2) Active defence against
air raids by fighter planes rather than
passive defence by blackouts. Fight-
ing spirit instead of deep shelters,
scorched earth, evacuation, Maginot
mentality and defeatism. (4) Coura-
geous and positive war leadership
instead of scare advertising. Public
inquiry into Ministerial responsibility
of insufficient defence or Rabaul.
Recall, when practicable, of the
A.I.F. for Australia’s defence. Aid
for Australia first (before Russia).
Independent voice of Australia in
Pacific War Councils. Immediate
transfer of all Government Depart-
ments to Canberra.
His manifestos ended with
the words “Australia First. God
Save the King!” Most of the
attendants at the first meeting
were “old ladies.”
The Australia First pro-
gramme was a direct challenge
to the Communist programme
of a “Second Front to Defend
Soviet Russia.”
On November 18 the “State
Labor Party,” the C.P.’s alter
ego, organised a rally at Sydney
Town Hall at which J. R.
Hughes, a well-known Com-
munist, warned of the danger
of Australia First as “doing
Hitler’s work,” calling for “the
internment of all enemies of the
war effort.” Contemporaneously
the violent demands for the
repeal of Security Regulation 26
died a natural death. In the
words of Mr. Brian Fitzpatrick:
Having in mind that the Labor
Government had already given evi-
dence of its practical goodwill towards
our cause, we decided not to press,
as a rule, for changes in the law.
On November 21 the State
Labor party called for “the
public trial of the leaders of
the Australia First Movement.”
Its organ, “Progress,” stated;
The Federal Attorney-General has
called for a report on the [Australia
First] proceedings. The State Labor
party [which was the alter ego
of the Communist party, still illegal]
considers that this movement should
be banned, and individuals associated
with it put on trial.
Australia First public meet-
ings were turned into riots by
organised Communist interrup-
tion and physical violence.
On March 5, 1942, the
police banned a meeting of the
movement to be held in Manly
Arcadia Theatre on the ground
that it might lead to a breach
of the peace —of course by
Communists.
On the following day Senator
Ashley, for Dr. Evatt, told Par-
liament that “appropriate action
has been, and will be, taken to
restrict or prohibit any activities
of this organisation [Australia
First] or any of its members
which are deemed detrimental to
national security.” Dr. Evatt
next day left for America, hand-
ing over his duties to Mr. Forde,
Enter “Herr Hardt”
At the end of January, when
the Communists were demand-
ing the internment instead of
the arrest of Stephensen, Security
(which already had investigated
him that month and declared
that his internment was not justi-
fied) suddenly laid certain plans
in Western Australia, 2500 miles
from Sydney. There was in
Perth a man named Bullock,
known to be erratic of behavior.
He had written some time before
to official organ,
the “Publicist,” asking that he
might represent it. The manage-
ment of the “Publicist” had re-
fused to have anything to do with
him.
A Security agent now
approached him. This man,
whose name was Thomas, de-
clared later that he had come
from Maoriland because he did
not like the political atmosphere
there.
He had been a member of the
Communist party (on second
thoughts he said on the order
of the Security Department);
also of fellow-traveller bodies,
on his own initiative.
In Parliament Mr. Calwell de-
scribed him as an "agent-pro-
vocateur a rather disreput-
able individual socially,” and Mr,
Rosevear said that if continued
internment of persons depended
on men like this Crown witness
it was “a, sad lookout for justice
in Australia”:
Under cross-examination that wit-
ness admitted that he was guilty of
practically every crime in the calendar.
He was a great character. He ought
to have been in gaol himself. {Han-
sard, Volume 172, p. 60.]
However, this man, employed
by Security Police at £5 per
week, now approached Bullock,
an organiser to a primary pro-
ducers’ >body. He represented
himself as being a man named
Hardt, a Nazi sympathiser, who
was in Western Australia from
the east to form a branch of the
Australia First Movement.
It needs to be emphasised that
Bullock had been guilty of no
treasonable activity till this man
By "EK DUM”
approached him. Under the in-
centive of his representations, if
not at his prompting, he now
gathered together three com-
panions—two men and a lady
friend, who worked in the post-
office.
Plans for Revolution
Plans were written down
one Sunday morning in a very
public room at a hotel as the
party sat eating grapes.
To view what took place it is
necessary to understand that the
participants in the conspiracy
had not a five-pound note or a
pop-gun between the lot of them.
Yet they planned to take over
the country, divide it into gaulei-
ter’s districts, overthrow the
Government, assassinate hun-
dreds of victims of importance,
the murders to include a pogrom
of the Jews, this proposal
allegedly made by Bullock’s
lady friend, who was herself a
Jewess, and of “the hierarchy of
all denominations.”
They were also to blow up the
Midland Railway works and
various other defence facilities,
a modest job calling for huge
transport organisation and about
a thousand tons of explosives.
All this was committed to paper,
as the quintet sat eating
grapes. Mr. Justice Clyne found
that “it was difficult to imagine
what moved these puny con-
spirators to such ambitious and
dangerous designs.”
The Judge further found:
It was suggested that these four
persons were the victims of the
investigator [Thomas], and that
what they proposed was not intended
to be serious, but was more or less
of a joke. 1 am prepared to believe
that Thomas was not a passive
investigator, but on the whole of the
evidence it is reasonable to conclude
that their designs, however fantastic
and extravagant, were seriously in-
tended.
It was decided to write to
the secretary of the Australia
First Movement in Sydney
and ask for affiliation to
that movement and for a supply
of its literature.
Bullock and his companions
were at once arrested. Perth
Military H.Q. wired Sydney that
Quicke, one of Bullock’s com-
panions, had “named Stephen-
sen as leader of movement,” and
suggesting urgent action.
Quick C’s information obviously
came from Thomas, Security’s
agent.
Parliament role on March 6.
On the night of March 9
Security Police descended on
certain homes in Sydney and
spirited away a man from each.
A fortnight later the detentions
were continued under Regula-
tion 26.
Mr. Forde’s Statement
When Parliament met on
March 25, Mr. Maurice Black-
bum brought the matter into the
daylight. And then, on March
26, Mr. Forde made a statement
which aroused the whole coun-
try with excitement. He said
that 20 persons who were
believed to have been associated
with the so-called Australia
First Movement had been
arrested and interned. Docu-
ments and papers which had
been seized purported to show
that certain people in Australia
intended to make contact with
the Japanese Army at the
moment of invasion of Aus-
tralia. They set out “elaborate
plans for sabotage at vulnerable
points in the country and de-
scribed methods calculated to
make resistance to the Japanese
impossible.” “Plans for the
assassination of prominent
people” were set out, and one
document headed “Australia
First Government” welcomed to
this country as friends and liber-
ators the Japanese leaders and
Army,
He added that “the military
authorities had been investigat-
ing the Australia First Move-
ment for a considerable time and
the arrests took place as a result
of these inquiries.”
At the royal commission
inquiry later the Judge placed
the responsibility—according to
the official evidence on
Military Intelligence acting on
advice from Perth.
In the course of the sensa-
tional and furious debate which
took place in Parliament it was
clearly indicated by Mr. Curtin
that those arrested would be
brought to trial, though they
were tried already, both by Par-
liament and by public opinion.
And their names had been made
public by the illegal Communist
party,' there being a blanket
censorship on all loyal sources
of information.
But here, again, an astounding
series of facts is evident. In
the first place, by March 26,
when Mr. Forde’s statement was
made, the Government was fully
aware —and it ;wasl later proved—
that there was no connection
between Bullock and the other
associates of the agent-provoca-
teur in Perth and the Australia
First Movement in Sydney, and
that the latter body was entirely
ignorant of what had taken
place in Perth. In the second
place, it transpired that though
this staggering conspiracy had
been discovered, nobody had
even taken the trouble to tell
the acting Attorney-General,
Mr. Beasley, about it —he denied
knowledge of it in Parliament.
The third fact was that no
attempt had been made to trace
the letter sent from Perth by
“Hardt” and his associates to
the A.F. Movement. The A.F.
Movement’s office had not been
closed. The movement had not
been banned. And the paper
which was regarded as the
official organ of this supposed
conspiracy had not been closed
down. Some executive members
of the A.F. Movement and the
secretary —with the movement’s
books and documents —were at
large and unmolested.
The Internees
The internees, however, repre-
sented a cross-section which
gave great satisfaction to the
Communist party. There was
Sydney Hooper, formerly assis-
tant inspector of the Union
Bank, who had given sub-
stantially to the fund to
replace H.M-A.S. Sydney the
day before he was interned.
He had some part in the
conduct of the “Publicist,
and was a member of the
Australia First Movement. He
was 73 years old, his wife had
died three weeks before. Rela-
tives feared, when he suddenly
disappeared in the dead of night,
that his grief had led him to
suicide. He turned up behind
barbed wire in Liverpool, guest
of the Labor Government which
only a few months before had
fought vigorously for weeks in
the House to protest against the
internment of the Communists
Ratliff and Thomas as an
infringement of civil liberty and
which had shovvn the greatest
antagonism to the use of Regu-
lation 26, which was used m
Hooper’s case.
There was Keith Bath, a
former Manly alderman „r
was accustomed to nl”-j Who
Liberal political «
Manly. He was a m \ BS “
over 30 associations ™“yV o£
was a committeeman T”?'’
Royal Automobile Club and £
a real-estate business ?
brought him i„ about
a year, according to in - tsoo °
documents. He had an
ment with Sir Donald CimT
on the day on which h*
interned with a view to enli J aS
AS! niStraliVeServicei "to
connected in the remotest wav
with Australia First or witl Y
other public movement h 3Dy
Together with this mixed bag
was an electrical engfoS?
TTiere was a soldier named
Downe, who promptly asked for
a court-martial, and while
Crown counsel were holding
mm up as a traitor before the
Clyne Commission he was trans-
fe/r^? on the recommendation
of Mih ary Intelligence, to the
cipher department of the Army
—a secret department. After his
life had come close to being
ruined, Dr. Evatt wrote an
abject retraction of the charges
of disloyalty against him.
There was also the soldier
Watts, a Military ~ Medallist of
the first war, wounded, ailing
but having given his services to
the militia for years. As recom-
mendations showed, he was of
unblemished reputation in his
district. He was a peace officer
in Commonwealth employ at St.
Mary’s Commonwealth explo-
sive factory, where he had been
commended a few days before
for extinguishing a dangerous
fire.
Also interned was a director of
the Summer School of Political
Science, much frequented by Dr.
Evatt and his associates. Also
an old and senior official of the
A.M.P. who had not the re-
motest connection with any poli-
tical activity.
Altogether nine men out of
16 who were arrested and de-
tained in the fantastic business
were found to be completely
innocent of disloyalty and liable
for compensation. The rest
consisted of two members of
the movement who were of
doubtful loyalty, but who had
taken no active part in the
movement, an ex-Communist
who had joined, but who had
resigned, as well as a person
whom most of the other in-
ternees had never heard, who
was roped in and inexplicably
brigaded with them.
He was a man employed
by the police at Woy Woy, who
had taken no part in any poli-
tical movement, but who in the
course of journalistic contacts
he had written some excellent
articles on Australian defence-
had sent some obviously uncon-
sidered private letters, ,
Stephensen in which he had
made hysterical and offen
remarks about fel ow-Austr
bans. Dr. Evatt insisted on
quoting these remarks in Pad*
ment as representative
tralia First opinion, though
must have known them o
contrary to the view of nearly
everybody concerned.
And finally tha
Stephensen andl ” s T , t they
They were not told » £ba[ges
were, interned for. asso-
- laid until n- amen t by
ciated publicly m P croW n
a Labor Minister of
with a diabohca w ith
hatched 2500 an y
which not one of man
more connection than
in the moon. mtell
{Next Austral
of the struggle of tne afjd
First men to sec . ur j 1 0 f inquiry
the royal commission
into their cases.)


NS?
dor
o uo
o\
ypo
00
qUO
M s *
ut'
o*
A afN
k«A ? X
m
O'i
do\
K?
\S
o\
5#
0H
t\oQ
\XH°S
Mr
K^«A
**
\&
K ?
aoA I
tvo
K?
u\
00
0S K^Nal^i
11-lsvom
SJ.V3S
le
MSN JO IS3N
1
k
Sydney qnd suburbs alone, under the McGirr
redistribution, will elect 48 members—one for every
five square miles! As a matter of history, public
money will be spent where the 1 votes are.
A vigorous country voice in Parliament is more necessary than ever
before-and the Country Party, with no metropolitan affiliations, is
the only one free to provide it. The Country Party is pledged to
fight for the repeal of the McCirr Electoral Act,
REGISTER YOUR PROTEST AGAINST THIS SLAUGHTER OF COUNTRY
INTERESTS: GET BEHIND YOUR OFFICIALLY ENDORSED COUNTRY
PARTY CANDIDATE AND
VOTE COUNTRY PARTY
(Authorised By J. F. Dredge, Genera! Secretary, The Australian Country Party, 42 Bridge Street, Sydney ,J
CO


How much
df
time will your
Executor have for your affairs?
Few men can spare the time from their own affairs to attend properly
to the duties of an Executor and /Trustee. The position demands
specialised knowledge and is no task for an amateur.
Why burden a friend with such grave and arduous responsibilities?
The Permanent Trustee Company .offers you the assistance of a
group of experts to administer your estate. It is permanent, it
devotes all its efforts to the interests of its clients, and it gives a
service which no individual can offer.
Call and discuss your needs with, one of our Executive Officers in
confidence and without obligation; or write for Free Booklet:
“trust estates and their management.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond, Chairman.
F. H. Way, Vice-Chairman.
F. W. Hixson, V.D.
G. Moncrieff Barron, 0.8£., M.B.ChM., F.RA.C.S.
J. R. Faviell. F. B. Fleming.
Manager: N. L. Shaw.
Assistant Manager: C. N. P. Whittle.
Sub Manager: S. U. White.
Secretary: F. R. Garland.
Pastoral Inspector: Hush Stewart.
PermaaeatTrustee
COMPANY OF NAW.UMOT y
22-35 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNt*
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
THE WEST’S GERMANY.
Facts generally admitted in
current overseas comment on the
Germany the Western side has
on its hands are that it has made
and continues to make a com-
pelling recovery, not only indus-
trially and economically alto-
gether, but also politically.
Already the bulk of comment
agrees that the West’s Germany
is now a strong political force
that must be reckoned with in
Europe henceforth.
There is nothing like the same
agreement on what should be
done about fitting it into the
Western coalition. Briefly, the
British view (at least, as repre-
sented by Mr, Bevin) is one of
an extreme caution, based on
—London “Daily Mail.”
SHOVEL IN SHACKLES.
Germany’s past aggressive
record and its present growth as
a trade rival. The French view
(despite such dramatic gestures
as that of M. Schuman for in-
tegrating the entire German and
French steel and coal production
under one joint authority) re-
mains one of well-founded
national suspicion.
The American view (as repre-
sented by Acheson and his ad-
visers, including U.S. German
High Commissioner McCloy
and Republican adviser Dulles)
is that a great unshackling of
Western Germany is sooner or
later inevitable, and that the un-
shackling had better be done
gracefully and voluntarily now,
rather than later under bitter
nationalist pressure. But in the
U.S. view, also, an unshackled
Germany must somehow be tied
firmly in the system of the
Atlantic alliance, and must
somehow contribute to the
general Western defence.
The American view (aided by
such potent forces as the Wesr-
tern German will to recover and
the increasing threat of Soviet
imperialist aggression, with Ger-
many the major prize) is the one
that is winning. “It is,” reports
a “New York Times” staff
correspondent in Germany,
“either a tribute to the good
sense of Western statesmen or
an admission of the gravity of
the danger from the East that,
except for some diehards, few
voices are raised against the ad-
mission of a nation which less
than a decade ago was em-
barked on a career of conquest
against those same countries.”
The chief brake, as noted in
another report by the same
correspondent, is that “very few
people in Western Europe trust
or like the Germans.” Car-
toonists in Germany usually
portray their Federal Republic
as a skinny little fellow in a
sleeping-cap, but most of Wes-
tern Europe “still sees Germany
as a jack-booted plug-ugly with
a revolver on one hip and a
truncheon in his hand.”
Over those feelings, however,
circumstances are forcing the
issue, with at least a definite
start towards bringing Western
Germany into the Atlantic
coalition considered as certain
within the next month or two.
It is further generally accepted
that that, in turn, will involve
definite action on Mr. Churchill’s
thesis that if the Germans are to
be in the Western counsels they
must make their contribution to
Western defence. As he also put
it to the House of Commons:
“There is no hope for a united
Europe without Germany, and
there is no hope for Germany
except within a free and united
Europe.”
Action on the Churchill thesis
is regarded as made urgent by
the Soviet moves in Eastern
Germany. Having recently been
in that zone, N. Y. “Herald
Tribune” special correspondent
Joseph Alsop has reported on it
in a series of warning articles,
in one of them stating: “No
one who has seen the accelera-
tion of the Soviet drive for Ger-
many and the commencement of
the Soviet tactics of terror [i.e.,
against Berlin and Western Ger-
many generally] can really hope
for the neutralisation of Ger-
many. You can proclaim the
lamb’s neutrality, but it will not
be respected by the wolf.”
Under that driving force the
vievy now most generally held —
in Britain, as elsewhere —is that
summarised by London “Daily
Mail” in its comment on the
Churchill thesis: “However re-
luctant we may be to trust them,
the time is coming when the
Germans must play a leading
role in the life of the West. The
alternative is another political
vacuum and another fearful
explosion.”
The same force produced the
coal-and-steel proposal by M.
Schuman, which seemed to indi-
cate an almost incredible change
of French outlook, and which
was not viewed in Britain with
such unanimous suspicion as
cabled comments at the time
may have suggested. As one
example of the favorable British
reaction, “Yorkshire Post,”
describing the proposal as
“essentially a political one,”
commented: “Its acceptance
would help to allay the fears
which the impending restoration
of Germany inevitably arouses
in France, It would therefore
remove one of the gravest
obstacles to valuable Western
European co-operation.”
London “Daily Mail” com-
mented : “The great merit of M.
Schuman’s idea is that it com-
bines the real with the ideal. It
is notable for the comparative
modesty of its beginnings and its
grasp of essentials. It does not
propose a grandiose amalgama-
tion of all nations, nor would it
rely upon paper treaties, which
nowadays are even more de-
valued than paper money. Its
main idea —that coal and steel
production in the two countries
should be joined under a single
authority—recognises that the
inflamed spot in Europe’s body
politic is due to Franco-German
fears and suspicions. If these
could be removed by the salve
of industrial co-operation the
way would be cleared for that
larger Federation of Europe
which would be one of man’s
major political triumphs.”
The “News Chronicle” (to
give another favorable British
view) hailed the proposal as “a
great step towards the goal of a
united Western Europe.” It
further commented:
“The full meaning of the
French proposal must be
realised. The products of the
entire Ruhr, the arsenal of Wes-
tern Europe, are to be removed
from the dangers and envies of
national sovereignty. The struggle
for the control of this area,
small in size but vastly great in
wealth and importance, has been
a contributory cause to two
world wars. The French pro-
posal means the removal from
the hands of mere nations of
the means for forging weapons
of war. Then in the words of
M. Schuman: ‘A state should
be reached where war is
materially impossible.’
“France has given Western
Europe the lead. But to make
co-operation a reality other
nations, too, must join, so that
the whole Rhineland industrial
area is under one international
body. If international control
can be shown to work, and there
is no reason why it should not,
then the world will be given a
clear signpost to the possibility
of the supervision of an even
more dangerous force for future
wars —atomic energy,”
On Britain’s special position
in the matter the “News
Chronicle” admitted that Com-
monwealth commitments made
British submission to inter-
national control difficult, “But
the hope offered by the Schuman
plan is too great to be ignored.
We cannot afford to stand by
and watch it wither for want of
our support. The problems of
British participation are obvious,
but they are not insoluble. The
question of public ownership of
the steel industry does not arise.
No greater control of steel for
the purposes of the project is
necessary than has existed in this
country since the war. Nor is
there need for Britain to fear
that she will be undercut or
pushed out of the markets of the
world. Her steel is among the
cheapest in Europe.
“It is vital to our interests as
well as for the peace of the world
that we should be represented on
the directing body. Decisions
must be made now. M. Schuman
has given Western Europe her
chance. The initiative lies in our
hands. But if there are delays,
half-heartedness or narrow
national prejudices the chance
will be lost—perhaps for ever.”
That issue, along with the
general position of the West’s
Germany, is considered certain
to be finally decided before this
year is out, if purely by sheer
force of circumstances. Mean-
while, a “New York Times”
special correspondent in Ger-
many, Drew Middleton, notes
one encouraging element:
“Western Germany is not
going Communist under present
conditions, despite the yearning
glances of Ruhr industrialists to-
ward trade with the East or the
intemperate speeches of poli-
ticians representing what the
Germans call ‘national bolshe-
vism.’ Hatred of the Soviet
Union and Communism is far
stronger among all classes in
Western Germany than it is in
either France or Italy.”
Malaya Forces.
An old resident of Malaya, in
a letter to London “Daily
Telegraph”:
“One suggestion I would
make is that the frontier between
Siam and Malaya u
trusted to an Anzao f d be en '
Australia and Nw g', I£
accepted this commits and
wou.d achieve -SffSg*..*
Pek!nglha S t “the
18 , unite <l and can
unison. 1 act m
“2—Give the Anzacs « « .
ass . tra f such as fir th
North-West Frontier of r J e
provided for the British a
for so long. Stl Art *y
“3.—Enable the Amt- v
and New Zealand peopled
accepting an Imperial respimf
S'A"* ~ s
“4 It would be a hie color
ful job. I believe their a d, en
turous young men would *1
come the task.” wei '
Taxed Out.
Asserting that Sir Stafford
Cnpps cares nothing for com-
plaints against his swingeing
profits tax, that his attitude i!
1 let capitalist companies shut ud
- rU p’” a Lo ndon
Financial Times” staff writer
adds:—
Let me tell him that some
very large companies operating
overseas with headquarters in
London are not going to shut
up. They are now preparing to
move. They will soon be
registered in the Colonies and
other places where they operate.
“This move will save millions
of their shareholders money.
The consequence of savage taxa-
tion of profits will be that the
[British] Treasury will lose
great sums in taxes and that
London will be diminished as a
great centre of trading.”
Jap Coms.
A wordy blast from Moscow
directed at the Jap Communist
party, presumably intended to
galvanise the Nippon fifth-
column into more effective
action, left the rank-and-file
flabbergasted and their leaders
“shaken and bewildered by the
brutal attack on them by a joss
which seldom rewarded them
but which they had worshipped
with proprietorial and self-
sacrificing devotion.”
Reporting thus in a special
article on the present state of
the Jap Corns, the able Tokyo
correspondent of London
“Economist” quotes the Jap
Government figure of a shade
over 100,000 as the party’s
strength, and adds the dry
qualification “No one doubts
that this registered total includes
many Government secret
agents” ; an arrangement which,
incidentally, has the comrades
more than a little worried in
other places besides Japan.
Though, as the correspondent
puts it, the Soviet Mission m
Tokyo “still finds blackmarket
funds for the party,” industnaUy
the Corns have been losing
4,000,000 workers
—or two-thirds of organised
Japanese labor-now bdongto
trade-unions which owe
allegiance to conservative «
moderate leadership. Near
half of this union army na


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
B
J,
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
excellent climate
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
worn the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
G. A, FISHER, 8.A., 8.50.,
Headmaster.
m
m
/iz
wm
* '
'A
A
w sO
A-
mi
sw
r<2
ICI
Rabbits In their countless millions con-
stitute one of Australia’s most destructive
pests. Good grazing land can be rapidly
turned Into barren acreage if these pests
are uncontrolled. Land-owners and sports-
men may make every day’s shooting more
than worthwhile by helping to reduce the
numbers of these vermin.
Eley-Kynoch shotgun cartridges are hard-
hitting and 100% reliable.
T6-li
ELEY-KYNOCH Shotgun CARTRIDGES
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
drifted away from Communist
leadership in the past year
although the Communists still
have a commanding voice in the
affairs of the usual strategic
unions— heavy industry, coal,
communications, transport and
education. 1 , T
“These moderatr/-led Japanese
trade-unionists ar£ the West’s
best bet for enduring demo-
cratisation in Japan. They will
be the first quarry of the new,
reformed and presumably more
effective Japanese Communist
part y The Japanese have no
instinct for Communism. Tra-
ditionally they fear and distrust
the Russians. But they ape suc-
cess—or what looks like success.
And, as somebody has pointed
out, the Pacific war was dictated
and imposed upon the nation by
conspiracy among a far smaller
group of men than the local
junta of the Japanese Communist
party/]
J. Bull in the China
Shop.
Various British reports
(already quoted here) regarding
the misfiring of J. Bull’s recog-
nition of Communist China are
supported in N. Y. “Herald
Tribune’’ by a staff correspondent
at Hong Kong.
The British businessmen who
urged recognition, he states,
acted on the theory that China
would always be disunited and
that, therefore, the West could
always do business there under
any regime:
“They seem to have been
proven totally wrong. British
businesses in Chinese seaports
like Shanghai have been losing
money steadily under Com-
munist restrictions and exac-
tions ; most of them are now
talking of having to close very
soon if the Communists will
let them. Hong Kong trade has
also languished since recogni-
tion ; warehouses here are full
of goods originally destined for
China but now stranded
‘ “The fact that Great Britain
was more or less isolated in
recognising Peking is believed to
have allowed the Communists to
deal with her more roughly than
might have been possible other-
wise. British recognition itself
—and the fact that Other coun-
tries did not go along as expected
—has also helped to drive wedges
into the Western world. One
constantly , hears criticisms by
the French and Americans here
[m Hong Kong], for instance, of
the ‘unrealistic’ British attitude
toward Communism in Asia.
The British overseas have a
polite habit of not speaking
their minds, but it is certain they
feel let down by America and
Commonwealth countries like
Canada and Australia, who
failed to recognise with them.”
“Missing” P.-o.-w.
Quoting London “Times’s”
report of German Chancellor
Adenauer’s statement that he
hoped the fate of the 1,500,000
German prisoners-of-war “miss-
ing” in Russia would “cause
horror beyond the frontiers of
Germany” Lord Vansittart, in
-"New York Times.”
CAN'T GET IT DOWN—AND WON’T GIVE IT UP.
a letter to the “Times,” asserts
that it certainly does cause
horror. In his hard-hitting
style, he further comments:
“Even to those most con-
sistently critical of German con-
duct throughout this century
there are two points at which
sympathy for Germany is
aroused. One is the courage of
the Berliners in holding out
upon an islet threatened by a
barbarian sea. The other is the
matter of these ‘liquidated’
prisoners-of-war. The same fate
has overtaken huge numbers of
Japanese prisoners-of-war.
“Perhaps it will convince
those who still quibble about the
meaning of liquidation. The
Russians are continually doing
this sort of thing—witness, for
example, the depopulation and
repopulation of the Baltic States
and the other wholesale trans-
plantations of humanity, regard-
less of roots and death-rate. The
total of those liquidated by these
totalitarians is more appalling
than anything known or appre-
hended in human history.
“Can we really go on talking
about human rights when we
continue to do nothing in the
face of mounting and cold-
blooded atrocity, which reduces
great parts of this glob© to a
moral desert? It will be asked :
‘What can we do?’ All free
nations can at least make a ges-
ture of disgust. They can reduce
their representation at Moscow
to the level of Madrid, or even,
as I should prefer, to consular
level everywhere behind the iron
curtain. Franco has offended
against humanity on no such
scale as Stalin, and the differen-
tiation is now not only absur.d
but hypocritical. In Parliament
I have often urged reciprocal
‘diplomatic’ reductions for the
purposes of national security. I
now ask for them on moral
grounds.
“It will be wise to show the
Germans that we are indeed as
‘horrified’ by this fresh abomina-
tion as we were by the Nazi
crimes, which are now being ex-
ceeded. Still more is it right to
make plain to them that, when
we condemn vile deeds, we are
also prepared to ‘do something
about them.’ Above all, our
national health requires that we
should regain the capacity for
sustained indignation which we
have been rapidly losing.”
Dragnet Digest.
Joe Declines a Gift.—A London
“Daily Telegraph” staff writer records
that when Stalin had his 70th birth-
day last November the Social Unity
party of Eastern Germany promised
to have a gigantic planetarium made
for him at the famous Zeiss works
at Jena, now “people-owned.” This
princely birthday gift is nearly ready,
but it-has now been announced that
the Soviet Government had refused
to assist with the transport to Russia
of component parts, or even to
feed the German workers who would
be needed to assemble it. The
Russians pointed out that it would
take 1600 wagons to shift the Bm.
specially-made bricks and a further
800 for the astronomical apparatus
itself. So, “It looks as though the
German Social Unity party will be
left with a universe on its hands.”
* * * *
India Going Dry. —A staff corres-
pondent in India of N. Y. “Herald
Tribune,” reporting on Bombay as
the latest State to go completely dry
(foreigners, members of the defence
forces and holders of medical certifi-
cates excepted): “Slowly but steadily
prohibition is coming to India.
Madras went dry in October, 194&.
Orissa is dry. Madhya Pradesh
(Central Provinces) and the East
Punjab have dry days and dry dis-
tricts; Uttar Pradesh (United Pro-
vinces) has several completely dry
areas; West Bengal has one dry day
a week. So does New Delhi, India’s
capital.” To which the correspondent
adds: “All of them have, in addition,
a flourishing blackmarket in spirits,
an expanded police force and a vastly
diminished budget.”
* * * *
Indonesian Smuggling. —Quoting an
authoritative estimate, a “Scotsman”
correspondent at Jakarta puts at 40
per cent, the amount of imports
smuggled into Indonesia duty free,
with more than 50 per cent, of
exports smuggled out: “Smuggling is
an immense business, controlled by
people of standing and influence.”
* * * *
Changed Uncle Sam. —The change
from isolationism, pointed in a
London “Spectator” contrast: In
November, 1916, Woodrow Wilson
was elected President of the United
States for the second time to the
slogan “He Kept Us Out of War”
(a European war). The other day
General Omar Bradley, Chairman of
the United States Joint Chiefs of
Staffs, declared at Chicago, apparently
without raising a breath of dissent,
that “whether we recognise it or not,
the American people have decided to
hold and save Western Europe for
the free world.”
* * * *
Tito Himself. —Noted U.S. journalist
Joseph Alsop, lately visiting Belgrade,
found that “The experience of meet-
ing Marshal Tito has its surprises,
even for an observer jaded by too
numerous encounters with politicians.”
Expectation would include “a certain
measure of theatrics”: “Instead, you
find that Tito is a brisk, compact
man, in hard physical training, plea-
sant mannered, pointed in his talk,
with no trace of grandiose affectation.
Incidentally, his photographs gravely
belie him. There is nothing of
Goering and a great deal of the par-
tisan chieftain in Tito’s face.”
* * * *
German Recovery. —Of special im-
portance to Britain, and important
to Australia also, the Western Ger-
man textile industry has already
made so great a recovery that
(reports “Yorkshire Post”) the Inter-
national Wool Secretariat will prob-
ably be opening a branch there, in
the British zone: “In 1937 Germany
produced 253 million pounds of yarn,
but this contained a nigh proportion
of fibres other than wool. In 1947
the three Western Zones achieved an
output of 54.5 million pounds, rising
to 76.7 million in 1948 and 91.1 mil-
lion in the first nine months of last
year. This ytfar the Western Zones
have entered the world’s wool auctions
for the first time. It appears certain
that as a result wool imports will
increase rapidly. Last year 23 million
pounds of wool were imported from
New Zealand alone. In the season
1937-38 the whole of Hitler’s Greater
Reich imported only 15 million
pounds from the Dominion.”
* * * *
A Deal with Egypt. —Holding that
some of the Attlee Government’s
recent performances in foreign policy
defy description, London “Financial
Times” gives a specimen: “In order
that the Egyptians may chalk off a
little of our [Britain’s] so-called war-
debt to them, we have supplied them
with 60 jet-fighters. These machines
are urgently needed for the training
of the Royal Air Force, which is in
a weaker state than ever it was in
the much-despised days of Mr. Neville
-Chamberlain. Thus we oblige the
Egyptians, but what do they do in
return? Contrary to the articles of
the Suez Canal Convention, they
refuse to allow the passage of oil-
tankers from Persia through the Canal
to the Haifa refineries. The result of
Egyptian intransigence is that the
sterling area has to spend an extra
$4O million a year on the purchase of
dollar oil.”
* * * *
Slum of Asia. —“Manchester Guar-
dian” expressed a fear that those who
conferred in Sydney on aid to South-
east Asia might end up spreading any
aid too widely and thinly, instead of
concentrating on some notoriously
distressed area where beneficial effect
would have dramatic vividness: “As
candidate for such special attention,
the two provinces of Bengal surely
have strong claims. The two Bengals
are a slum of Asia. Almost every
conceivable economic and social evil
thrives there. Stagnation, infamous
housing, fetid cities, poor communica-
tions, communalism, Communism,
terrorism —these are the ingredients.”
Also, disease; with the curious note:
“Malaria, whose incidence is terribly
high, is on the increase; the reason
is obscure, but may be connected
with the drying-up of Bengal’s rivers,”
* * * *
Operation Caesar. —A “Scotsman”
(Edinburgh) correspondent on the
spot reports Italy’s 10-year trustee-
ship over its former East African
colony of Somalia as having got off
to a good start. Not a single incident
occurred in the five weeks while
Britain was handing over to Italy.
The “Italian officials who are taking
over the administration of the country
are highly qualified people. They do
not return as revengeful ‘colonialists,’
but are trying to find a political and
psychological approach which would
enable them to win the confidence of
the Somalis. Somalia’s violently anti-
Italian political force, the Somali
Youth League, has dropped its
intransigent opposition to Italy’s
return and adopted an attitude of
moderation and even co-operation.”
* * * *
Red “Black Plague.” —Explaining
the still-mounting anti-Communism in
America, a Washington correspondent
of London “Spectator” concludes:
“Above all else there is the accurate
realisation that Soviet Communism
is, as Mr. John Foster Dulles has
said, a Black Plague. To fear it, to
want the quarantine measures [against
it] to be successful, is a sound enough
instinct.”
* * * *
West Help to Tito. —Holding that
“There will certainly have to be a
stout performance by the Yugoslav
economy to justify, on purely eco-
nomic grounds, the help that has
come from the West,” London
“Economist” states that Belgrade has
received since last summer some $75
million worth of aid from the Export-
Import Bank, the World Bank, the
International Monetary Fund and
Britain; further aid from the World
Bank is expected soon, and German
and Dutch firms have obliged with
credits. “Yet trade with the West in
1949 did not equal that with Eastern
Europe in 1948, in spite of the fact
that exports to America are more than
keeping pace with imports from the
same source.” Tito has “made it
clear that he will persist both in his
five-year plan and in his determina-
tion to have a strong armaments
industry, the claims of which, on the
economy, look excessive, but are diffi-
cult to assess. The Yugoslav people
are in for no easy time, but their
performance up to date suggests that
the prospects of success are very fair.”


FASTEST AIR ROUTE
v FROM SYDNEY TO
HjrPKOMG
9
>M
m
Ail*.
W;
ins
Ar
- /j
&
fs?
K
rvn
nmm v
W7,?3fi(lJ 1/
"r^te
wV
aecKW
w:
e££
va
rtS
c^uCVy?
ESccSc
1
HONG KONG
a
5v
LABUAN
DARWIN
V*
SYDNEY
Shortest, quickest air route to
Hong Kong is by Q.E.A. Ser-
vice via Sydney, Darwin and
Labuan. Comfortable Sky-
masters operate on a regular
schedule —fly you there in less
than 2 days from Sydney.
First-class steward service—
excellent meals served in the air.
Enquire now from your local travel
agent, or
m
/
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS
in association with British Overseas Airways Corporation
QC7
/ftiakes enl£
40 SECONDS
n\\W(
CHEQUE
• ••
Paying accounts by cash means
standing in queues, waiting
change, irritating delays, waste
time. , ,
Then why do it? It is so much
easier to pay by post.
It takes only 40 seconds to write
Commonwealth Bank ch^ e * ho( j
the quick, modern, convenient meAod
of paying bills. It is safe, too, became
you can stop payment of a lost
cheque. ,
Paying by cheque has o
advantages: u
It gives evidence of payment it you
lose your receipt.
It adds to your prestige.
It shows you clearly what yo
spent and where. 0 {
It saves you keeping large
money in the office or otnC *
Call in to-day and open
account at any branch o
PAY
TO 0 R
ACCOUNTS
CBy oieque
€ommomvaltl)sanfc
of lustralia.,
- bank YOU ow
•THE
c* o ®'
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
4* 4* *r
“Wanted, someone to call for and
take home skirt.” — Suburban paper.^
There may be something in
this.
4* 4* 4*
“Come along with your friends and
see what Mr. Spender, your member,
has to say on Monday.”
—Suburban paper.
Those who listen must keep
their eyes open.
“Wanted, unfurnished room, convs.,
moderate, by part. bus. lady.”
—Suburban paper.
She won’t be quite all there.
4* 4* 4* . ~
“A leading city perfumier said
women should choose a perfume to
suit their personality.”
—Sydney “Sun.
Otherwise they may put their
friends off the scent. ,
4* 4* 4*
“Bald men are bald only because
their scalps are lazy.”
—Melbourne “Argus.
Too much nut-loaf.
4* 4* 4*
“While hanging out the family wash
on Saturdays I am jeered at by men
going to the pubs.” t>
—Letter in Sydney * D.T.
Naturally they don’t like to
see their cobber peg out.
4* *l* , 4* . ,
“So much soap-substitute is being
used in Stockport (Cheshire) that the
town is having bubble trouble.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun:”
The town council is in a
lather about it.
4* 4* . 4* .
“ ‘Frankie Sinatra is a tonic to
me,’ said film-star Ava Gardner.”
—Sydney “Sunday Herald.’’’
Then why not bottle him?
At the orders of some drew
designer women billow
Pacific or become as curveless
drainpipe. Where do the bulges and
bumps go between fashions?* d
Letter to Sydney “D y »»
On the Spot.
“A London men’s-wear shop is
showing a new beach style featuring
leopard-skin bathing trunks with a
tail, which is detachable.”
—Sydney “Sunday Telegraph.
Why should our womenfolk
alone
Enjoy the nifty models shown
At bathing-pool and surfing-
beach
While menfolk strut around
parading
Their manly charms in costumes
fading
Though girls are clad in mauve
and peach ?
So let us welcome any change
Of togs that brings within our
range
An elegance of male attire
Whose sheer breath - taking
innovation
Is sure to rouse that admiration
To which all husky men aspire.
But though such fashions may
be fine
We surely ought to draw the
line
At leopard-skins, for those who
don
A costume with a tail-like trim-
ming , . .
Might find it rather awkward
swimming
In tow with idle hangers-on.
D.H.E.
A Matter of Logic.
in crippling strikes which de-
prive powerhouses of best-
quality coal, for spinelessly and
for so long allowing maintenance
men at Bunnerong to dictate
terms to the management about
overtime, and for doing nothing
since the war to remedy matters
other than turn sods on the
wrong bit of land at sites of
mythical new powerhouses. So
what? , ..
“These shortsighted poli-
tical half-wits don’t stop to think
that the greater the period that
factories are deprived of power
the greater the prosperity for
the workers, freed during that
“In his policy speech, N.S.W.
Premier McGirr said that shortages
were really a sign of progress.”
McGag was in great form,
standing nonchalantly on his
head as he elucidated:
“One of the healthiest mani-
festations of the remarkable
prosperity in this State, which is
due not to such a relatively un-
important Ttem as the nation’s
wool cheque, but solely to the
fearless manner in which my
Government has tackled its
problems, is the chronic power
blackouts we enjoy.
“Our political enemies—the
minions of decadent Capitalism
—make a mouthful of the Gov-
ernment’s being too frightened to
discipline the miner’s Com-
munist leaders for leading them
“ Stop—I think I like this one!"
time from the tyranny of their
capitalistic exploiters, are en-
abled to enjoy well-deserved
leisure. Under ‘Labor’s’ en-
couragement they will, of course,
spend it in pursuit of true demo-
cratic culture in the hotels —
wasn’t that why we introduced
the enlightened forty - hour
week?
. “The fact that breweries
are making greater profits than
ever before —and don’t forget
that the buoyancy or otherwise
of brewery finances is an in-
fallibly accurate barometer of
the State’s economic health —
affords all the proof needed that
‘Labor’s’ policy of bigger and
better blackouts for the people is
bearing us all along on an unex-
ampled crest of prosperity.
“Another solid indication,”
went on “Labor’s” star resigna-
tion-recanter, “of the almost
miraculous progress made under
the policy pursued by my Gov-
ernment, is the increasing short-
age of hospital-beds since I faced
the electors three years ago and
promised to flood the country
with new hospitals.
“Thousands of women who
have strained thpmselves badly
through being forced by the
greed of profit-hungry pluto-
cratic butchers and grocers to
carry home heavily-laden string-
bags—if returned to power we
will, of course, carry out the
promise I gave three years ago,
to force these people to start
making deliveries—-have been
compelled through lack of hospi-
tal-beds to carry on bravely;
workers who have also been
denied hospitalisation for needed
operations have been stopping
nobly at their benches—would
the money-grubbing bosses do
that?
“This shortage of hospital-
beds, has, therefore, been the
means of maintaining and even
improving output of goods and
services. Under a Liberal Gov-
ernment there may be more beds,
but the worker wouldn’t thank
them for that when he knows it
would be endangering the State’s
economy. That is one reason
why ‘Labor’ has stoutly resisted
the temptation to divert to
hospitals the State Lottery
profits that are now all going
into Consolidated Revenue,
“Another thing,” went on the
spellbinder, “take the housing
problem, You remember that
last time I promised we’d build
ninety thousand houses? The fact
that I failed to keep my promise
doesn’t mean a thing—in fact,
the shortage of houses is actually
putting money into the workers’
pockets and so increasing the
wealth of the country. Look
what those who, through the
lag in the building industry, have
been unable to get homes of
their own, have been saved by
my Government in rates, interest
on mortgage (crippling under the
capitalist system of squeeze),
repairs, etc. Totalled up, the
sum that has thus been added
to the workers’ capit—er—
savings, with its concomitant
strengthening of the State’s
finances, is really astronomical.
“Then, again,” went on the
miracle-man, moving his tongue
to his other cheek, “take the
matter of decreased output due
to my introduction of the forty-
hour week with its consequent
skyrocketing cost of living, and
which has resulted in a sharp
increase in the number of the
State’s bankrupts. Figures re-
leased by the Treasury disclose
that the profits shown in the
administration of the Master in
Bankruptcy’s office have had a
particularly buoyant effect on
the State’s finances, so much so
that it has led to the unqualified
success that we have achieved:
a deficit of a bare three millions.
“Our introduction of night-
trots with betting,” wound up
McGag—and here a gleam of
pure pride lit his eye—“an ex-
ample of sheer states ~
that should bo an * el! a ? shl P
otter Governments 6^1 !^ e '°
from our political pL brou Bht
charge tha" S *£?* fi*
economic waste, ‘t aK „ , plam
only refutes the charl r * not
but takes Particular pnde mTv’
method of thus making^ 15
some contributions to tL - 6 '
able policy of full i esir ‘
pnly P °„^eV U 0 U p Syme„,.
fail to appreciate the
have conferred on some 0 l * e
best elements of the com! the
—bookies, punters, touts
tackers, urgers, s.-p m ’. tlck ‘
and other solid supporters oiT
party, who, by Sir
flcng efforts, by working "j
night, contribute so magnificL?!
to revenue through tlfe Iggj
Bo.
On-the-surface Criticism.
Where are the curves of
yesteryear 1
Now boyish lines again are here
And those whose figures once
were bulging
Like ocean waves commence
indulging
In meagre diets whose effect
Is such that men can scarce
detect
The gently undulating line
Which marks the really femi-
nine ?
\ .
Have all such bulges been com-
pressed
Right out of sight by female
zest
For slenderness through
corsetry ?
Why, not at all; I cannot see
Milady using means so drastic
Involving girdles of elastic
When all she needs to do is
scoff
At old-time curves—and laugh
them off!
BERT.


&3JISB
MW
smonem
If
.
■or
turn
d
SPARKPLUGS
fd
Im
as®
■
TRADE MARK
FACTORIES: FELTHAM, ENG.;
TOLEDO, W.S.A.; WINDSOR, CAN.
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere
“rings to rupture sufferers an entirely
new method of control, the result of
40 years’ practice and improvements,
proved completely successful by all
who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the
band when placed flat upon the
°« J.e. You will at once, without
snort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE distribution CO.
27e), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
a
9
&
m
7.
\
jMt
f
v
of*
y
When the perfection of the setting
calls for something of
real character and unquestionable
distinction 9 you will find
the appropriate cigarette bears
the name of Benson & Hedges 9
Old Bond Street 9 London —in
keeping with the occasion
when only the best ivill do •
tins of 20
JL
ev APPOINTMENT
tobacconists to
•re MAJESTT THB KING
SUPER VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
BensonZa Hedges
LTD
OLD BOND STREET, LONDON
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
In the normal course of racing,
under the conditions most generally
encountered in Australia, punters are
ant to meet their downfall when am
occasional very heavy track upsets the
notions of current form gleaned from
nerformances on the more customary
hard, fast tracks. Over recent months,
however, in Sydney at least, the
weather has been so consistently
moist, and the tracks correspondingly
soft that the normal order has been
reversed. Wet-weather form has
become the accepted form to such an
extent that Saturday’s Randwick
meeting, conducted on the first reason-
ably dry track ‘ encountered in ages,
gave punters about the worst day
they have had in a like period.
Offering a faint gleam in the
general gloom, one favorite was suc-
cessful, but the punter needed a
pretty deep purse to see out the dis-
tance. There were five winners at
double-figure odds before 5-to-2
favorite Conductor broke the drought
in the 10-furlongs Homestead Handi-
cap. In making Conductor favorite
for the Homestead, punters were
showing great confidence in the merit
of his close second to Arrowsmith a
week or so previous; he had not won
a race in almost three years. How-
ever, the confidence was fully justi-
fied. Biding his time in a handy
position while Erpingham was doing
the pacemaking, apprentice B. Killian
moved Conductor up to take the lead
with a furlong to go, and, while
Erpingham hung on well. Conductor
scored by three-parts of a length.
. Unquestionably the best race of the
day was the Two-year-old Encourage,
with four horses hitting the line in
as.near as possible to a quadruple
deadheat. As the prices of the four
ranged from tens to 33 to 1, most
onlookers were able to await the
camera’s decision without undue
excitement; nevertheless, most spec-
tators in the official stand would have
well-nigh sworn that Hioniti, on the
rails, was the winner. Great was
the astonishment, therefore, when the
camera showed Panama to have won
from Boatman, with Hioniti only
third and Tapoaki fourth.
All four who figured in this very
tight finish came from well back in
the field; the Gynerium colt Moriarty
had done most of the pacemaking,
and looked a possible winner for a
moment, but he was fairly swamped
by a rush of horses at the finish. A
chestnut son of the Italian importa-
tion Brueghel, Panama did particu-
larly well to win. It was his first
start in a race, and he ran very
greenly in the early stages, being
ahead of only a couple of the 22
runners. Not until well into the
straight did he really find his legs,
and then, superbly handled by W.
Cook, the colt fairly flew home, wide
out, to gain his narrow victory;
there were margins of a nose between
the first four. Notwithstanding the
excellence of the winner’s effort,
Boatman seemed something of a good
thing beaten, being repeatedly baulked
in his run; Hioniti and Tapoaki
each showed good form, while Kee-
borough and Moriarty made the best
impression of the remainder.
While the Two-year-old represented
a pretty fair result for the books, the
following race, a novice, was even
better, with Jupiter (50 to 1) winning
from Bonfire (40 to 1) and Dixie
Belle (12 to 1). Ridden by G. Pod-
more, Jupiter ran a rather unusual
race to win the 12-furlongs Novice.
After leading for the first half-mile,
he gradually dropped back, and was
in about the middle of the field
approaching the turn. In the straight,
however, he came again to be in
front at the distance, and from there
on was a comfortable winner. Jupiter
is a four-year-old son of the Hyperion
horse Titan.
Thereafter the less-fancied brigade
rolled home in great style. The
Katanga gelding Golden Tan (A.
Podmore) started at 10 to 1 and
easily downed Salvation and favorite
Ties teem in the Three-year-old En-
courage; Fresteem, incidentally, could
well be given another chance. Start-
ing at similar odds, the Hellespont
colt Zetland (N. McGrowdie) beat
Slander and Mona’s Choice in the
mile George’s River Handicap,
Mona’s Choice being, possibly, the
one to keep in mind. Yet another
at tens was the aged Law Maker
gelding Trover, who makes a regular
annual custom of winning a race or
two round this time o’ year. On
Saturday Trover beat, a fairly good
bunch of sprinters in the Flying, with
Acquitthl a neck away second and
just shading Persian Prince. Fourth
was favorite Blue Flag, who had
much bad luck in the running. Wind-
ing-up a generally disastrous day,
Duke of Syke (A. Ward) downed
favorite Admetus in the Welter.
* * * *
On a heavy track at the Melbourne
Racing Club’s Caulfield meeting on
Saturday the jumping double of
M-R.C. Hurdle and Steeple was won
by Rebel Regis (F. Randall) and The
Feline (B. R. Smith); while neither
started favorite, both were well
fancied, and are sure to be among
the early favorites for the Grand
National double.
Distance of the M.R.C. Hurdle
was two miles and a furlong, and
Rebel Regis led over the last nine
furlongs; he finished full of running
to score by nearly four lengths from
Tuckout, with Our Land a distant
third. Rebel Regis is a good jumper,
and has more pace than most hurd-
lers, but his speed may find out his
stamina when it comes to the three
miles of the Grand National. Tuck-
out came from South Australia with
a great reputation, and ran pretty
much up to it, though some of his
jumping looked a trifle risky. The
veteran grey Our Land finished a long
way behind the winner on Saturday,
but he may well be plugging on
honestly at a stage in the Grand
National when many another has had
enough.
In the light of his recent splendid
record, Benarca started favorite for
the M.R.C. Steeple, but topweight of
11.10, plus the heavy going, plus a
bad blunder at the last fence, all
added up to defeat; he struggled on
gamely to finish fourth, beaten a head
for third money by Bronze Laddie.
In two successive starts Benarca has
come very close to disaster; he can
afford to make no such mistakes if
he is to survive a couple of circuits
of the controversial Flemington
fences, amended though they be.
Winner already of both an Australian
and a Grand National Hurdle, The
Feline might well this year add one
of the big steeples to his excellent
record. He carried, on Saturday,
second topweight of 11.3, and jumped
faultlessly throughout. Bay David
made most of the running, but The
Feline moved up to head the early
leader approaching the last jump, and'
went on to win untroubled. Bay
David had no difficulty in holding
the rest of the field.
Backers of favorites had somewhat
better luck in the flat events, Dashing
Beau doing all that it was confidently
anticipated he would in the Spring-
vale Handicap, and, as well, old
Solray, a great mudlark, was equal
favorite for, the Waverley Handicap
(6f.), which he won as he had done
last year. Dashing Beau is evidently
one of those horses that call for
strong measures. Jack Purtell was
hoeing into him with the whip six
furlongs from home, and the harder
Purtell worked the better the horse
went. Driven right out to the finish,
Dashing Beau won by something
more than a length from Potentate,
with Sir Jack third; both minor
placegetters impressed as likely to
pay their expenses before long.
Solray (S. Ralph) won the Waverley
comfortably from Waldorf, who, for
a change, was ridden-from behind,
and seemed better suited thereby, fa
divisions of the Murray Handicap for
two-year-olds, the Footmark gelding
Bay Mark (R. Lindsay) very easily
beat Princess Moira and favorite
Great Scout, while Wessex (S. Ralph)
just scraped home from Kadmos
and Mendl, the lastnamed a likely-
looking type. The Loddon Welter
saw Bemarlow (G. West) break a
long run of outs by leading all the
way to easily beat Melorna and the
favorite Gilwell.
* * * ♦
For Randwick (before accept-
ances): —
June Nursery: Keeborough, 1;
Serenity, 2; American Edition, 3.
brought on themselves. In the first
quarter they ran a loose ruckman
on the forward line and slammed on
5.2 to 1.6. Then, for some wild
reason, they pulled the ruckman out
on to the wing, and from there on
never saw the way the Dons went.
It was 19.13-9.9 at the finish. North
Melbourne disposed of Fitzroy by
13.15 to 7.7, and Geelong, though
having 29 shots to Richmond’s 19,
lost by 12.7 to 9.20. Melbourne
rather morosely booted 14.12 to Haw-
thorn’s 6.12, Carlton managed to get
home ahead of South Melbourne,
11.8-9.14, and Collingwood galloped
away from Footscray, 19.25-10.7.
Essendon is now in solitary glory on
top with 24 points; St. Kilda, Mel-
bourne, North and Carlton have 20
each; and Collingwood is on 16.
“Not so loud , ref., or you'll be wakin' him up."
June Juvenile: Poitiers, 1; Panama,
2; Yardon, 3. St. Aubins Handicap:
Valiant Step, 1; Elusive, 2; Mona’s
Choice, 3. Trial Stakes: Fresteem,
1; Lady Oxford, 2; Traveller, 3.
June Stakes: Cognac, 1; Deep Sea,
2; Buzmark, 3. Ellesmere Handicap:
Lordly, 1; Frontal Attack, 2;
Erpingham, 3. Exeter Handicap:
Barnsley, 1; lolanda, 2; Saville Row,
3.
* * * *
Essendon and St. Kilda, then joint
V.F.L. leaders, met at last on Satur-
day, the weather being threatening
and the crowd nowhere near what
was expected. Saints had a repeat
of their experience at Geelong a week
earlier a drubbing, which they
There was a touch of pathos in the
overwhelming defeat of Randwick by
Gordon in Saturday’s Rugby Union.
After being a leading club—in fact,
the “glamor” club—for many years,
it seems that Randwick is now having
one of those “lean” times. But,
despite the fact of having won only
one match this season, they still
managed to get three and four
players into representative teams. To
many this seems an anomaly, but
to those who know Wally Meagher’s
ideas on coaching it is quite under-
standable. Unlike most coaches,
whose main concern is winning each
particular match, and ultimately
competitions, his main aim is to teach
every individual in the team to play
football on the international plane.
To him, every player who comes
under his tutelage is a potential inter-
national. Often, many of his players
are not capable of playing the foot-
ball he wants, and consequently the
side is beaten. But rather than alter
the style of play to suit the individual,
he perseveres with the individual to
bring him to the desired standard. In
doing so Randwick lose many
matches which they might otherwise
have won; but they get their reward
in the number of their players who
are selected for N.S.W. and Aus-
tralian teams. Leaving aside the host
of N.S.W. representatives, and con-
sidering the three post-war Wallaby
tours, Randwick had six reps in 1946,
seven in 1947-48, and six in 1949.
In other club matches in Sydney,
East beat Eastwood, Manly beat
Norths, Wests drew with Parramatta
and St. George drew with Drum-
moyne.
* ♦ * *
Sydney Rugby League fans swamped
the Sydney Cricket Ground on Satur-
day for their first glimpse of the
English tourists. A total attendance
of 70,419 was pretty close to a record
for the ground; and, by the same
token, it was a surprisingly orderly
crowd. More than once the gates of
the S.C.G. have been closed with a
much smaller but more turbulent
crowd inside. Hopes of the locals
rose high in the first half, as the
N.S.W. team gained a 6-2 lead and
increased it to 8-2 early in the
second spasm, but that was the end
of their effort. The “chooms,” who
gave the impression that they were
suffering somewhat from a surfeit of
Australian hospitality, settled down to
business, and won the match 20-13.
It would have been 20-8, but N.S.W.
winger Jack Troy scored a brilliant
though belated try after the full-time
bell had rung, and Pidding, whose
excellent kicking throughout was one
outstanding feature of the N.S.W. dis-
play, converted.
* * * *
Like most native Australian pugs,
bantam champion Elley Bennett packs
a punch that would do credit to a
man twice his size. Certainly it
proved much too powerful for
American negro Vic Eisen when the
pair met at Sydney Stadium last week.
Eisen was pounded into a sorry state
by the time referee Bill Henncberry
intervened towards the end of the
seventh round. By the time he had
come to in the dressing-room Eisen
was in a mood to protest loudly
against the fight having been stopped.
“I was fit to go on, and no referee
in America would have taken such
action against me.” The tragic truth
of Eisen’s remarks is borne out by
the appalling list of ring fatalities
recorded every year in America.


Jo
I
*
1
MB
IS
8
%
when consigning your clip—
everything
points
to
•7 Years in the Service of the Han an the Land
AMIi.F
INC. IN ENGLAND. 1863
AUSTRALIAN. MERCANTILE. LAND & FINANCE COY. LTD.
Head Office for Australia: 4 Bligh Street, Sydney, and at
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Country Branches t—NJS. W.: Newcastle, Wagga, Henty, Hay, Young, Cowra,
Scone, Moree, Garah, Wee Waa, Brewarrina, Cooma and Deniliquin.
Q’land: Townsville. Charleville, St. George, Cunnamulla, Dirranbundl,
associate agents McPhie & Co. Pty., Ltd., Toowoomba, Oakey, Dalby and
Pittsworth, Yeates Bros. Pty., Ltd., Toowoomba, H. P. Yeness & 00. Pty.,
Ltd., Winton.' Vic.: Wodonga, Korumburra.
KUV mom SATE!
stMfU
SANDERS
(Jjs&fcFiLES
Correspondence. I n toic » i.
statement*. «lc.. Died in the
~Sander«‘* can be securely
bound and converted Into a
parted book ol reference at
the end of each month —or
any other period.
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
rhurthu-ttng Agrmii-
SYDNEV ,
MELBOURNE .
ADELAIDE
ptinu .
e
• Vardon A Sons Ltd.
« Deckel B4ok Co CAoat.l
W C- Penfold A Co. Ptjr. Ltd.
. Norman Bro. Ply. Lid.
V*,T;
9.7.
£-7v
Price# IBd far-
ther ininrmilioa
Won •ppileattoD
“PhenoWs” Worm Remedy
fitriv
m
•m
'o/'r't
vmrT:
.
HANDY-
THE NEW
IMPROVED
‘PHENOVIS’
Phenothiazine Drench
fd
f
FROM STORES, MERCHANTS AND
PASTORAL HOUSES
df
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
SYDNEY SHEEP SHOW.
“Bungaree”: Merino entries
were much smaller; if Merino
men assisted the show in the
same spirit as breeders of British
sheep it would be a big thing.
Admittedly floods and flies con-
spired to wreck many show
teams this year, but Merino sup-
port is never good.
The opinion of genetic
authorities is that shows are det-
rimental to breeding progress.
A clever breeder with ample
funds can produce “pretty”
sheep, even if operating a small
nucleus flock in a city suburb.
The show judge is concerned
only with the quality expressed
in the animal before him. The
ram buyer, on the other hand,
while interested in the ram’s
fleece, conformation and certain
physical attributes that the
buyer’s flock may be short of,
is more concerned with the ram’s
prepotency.
So he prefers to buy from an
old-established stud where line
breeding has fixed the type, and
where he is less likely to find all
sorts of hidden inherited factors
cropping out in his lambs. Most
studs have exhibited at Sydney
Sheep Show at some time. Pre-
paration of show sheep takes a
lot of time and care and in these
days is full of difficulties.
The Sheep Show is a shop-
window arranged by the Sheep-
breeders’ Association so its
members can display their goods
and obtain publicity. For a new
stud the show is the best possible
means of giving potential buyers
an opportunity to examine the
sheep and make comparisons,
and to get the name of the stud
into the public eye. But, having
attained that end, many breeders
then retire on their laurels. They
fear the adverse publicity if their
sheep are beaten by compara-
tively unknown breeders, which
has frequently happened. Some
people wonder why, at subse-
quent sales, the established
breeder’s sheep, beaten at the
show, beat the prizewinners by
a huge price margin. This casts
no reflection, on the capability of
the show judge ; it merely proves
that winning show prizes isn’t
everything.
Those studs that have made it
their business to participate
regularly in shows have reaped
considerable benefit. No .stud
has a wider or more consistent
show record than Merryville,
and this year more than ever its
58 entries in the Merino classes
formed the backbone of the
section. Another consistent sup-
porter is F. F. McClung, of
Winbri. These studmasterj de-
serve every award. Mungadal,
back in the arena again, scored
well with some very good sheep.
Uardry was also in the picture.
Other studs that have given the
show good support are Tuwinga,
Murrawombie, Mullengudgery,
Yumoo and Rangari.
For some years there has been
little variation in Merino
fashions except for a steady
movement toward plainer bodies.
This was the outstanding feature
of this year’s sheep: in some in-
stances it appeared to have been
overdone. Many sheep showed
very little frontal development—
almost Polwarth types. In some
sheep this departure from the
classical neck-folds was a de-
“He's a bit sluggish answering to the helm.”
finite advantage, deserving of
encouragement. Neck-folds in
most sheep are uneven in length
and quality, usually running out
to coarse, short, starey wool on
the extreme curves and neces-
sitating the removal of a large
proportion of the fleece in the
shearing-shed.
In place of the regular folds
there is a sort of bustle packed
with wool as long and dense and
even in quality as on any other
part of the sheep. This feature
was noticeable on some of the
Yumoo sheep, particularly the
ewes and the reserve champion
extra-strong wool ewe.
It is a long time since there
were large classes in superfine
wools. Merryville, McClung,
Traill and Tomlinson were the
sole representatives of a type
whose wool is bringing record
prices today. Champion and
reserve rams came from Me-
Clung, so did the reserve ewe,
and Merryville won the ewe
championship with a beautiful
type female.
Fine wool classes were small
and dominated by Merryville
which, in addition to both cham-
pionships and reserves, took
every blue ribbon but one. The
quality throughout was excel-
lent. The Merryville champion
ewe eventually became reserve
grand champion. For the first
time a polled ram was shown in
this section, by F. F, McClung.
Polls have to give away a lot in
appearance to horned rams, but
there is no doubt whatever that
their future is very bright.
Medium wools, which usually
attract good entries, suffered
from the prevailing scarcity, but
the general quality was well up
to standard. Here again Merry-
ville influence was strong, both
male and female championships
and reserves going to that stud
in addition to the bulk of the
blue ribbons. The champion
ram which went on to take the
grand championship was very
plain-bodied, but a particularly
fine-looking animal in every
respect. The grand champion
ewe, also from this section, was
a lovely animal, deep-bodied
and wide across with the wool
densely packed on. If anything.
her wool was too fine to be
typically medium.
Strong wools included Strad-
brooke, a challenger from South
Australia. Ram classes werq
small but ewes were more fully
represented. The Mungadal
sheep did well, winning ram
championship and reserve; also
reserve ewe ribbon, and later
the champion ram went on to
win res. grand championship.
He is a short-backed, square-set
ram with a beautiful bright, even
fleece packed densely on.
Champion ewe was bred by
D, B, Milthorpe.
In the extra strongs, the Strad-
brooke rams did very well, two
big robust animals taking cham-
pionship and reserve. There
were two very good classes in
the ewes, although several entries
appeared to be on the fine side,
and would have been more at
home in the strong section. A
Milthorpe ewe gained the cham-
pionship by a very close margin
from a stylish ewe from Yumoo.
The Stonehaven Cup resolved
itself into a contest between
Mungadal and Merryville. Both
teams were so even and of such
high quality that it is little
wonder the judges took so long
to give the casting vote to
Mungadal,
Novice classes were badly
neglected. As these are the
stepping-stones to wider recog-
nition of a stud it does not augur
well for the future. Competition
was practically nil. One note-
worthy entrant was a lady with
18 pet sheep running on a
Sydney suburban allotment.
The Small Graziers Section
had slightly better support, but
competition was poor. How-
ever, some very nice sheep were
brought forward, and it is to be
regretted that there were not
more of them.
The general lay-out of the
show was a big improvement.
Show sheep were centrally
located, with the sale pavilions
on either wing. Most of the
Merino judging took place in
the open on lawns adjoining the
pavilions, and although the time
taken to get sheep to and from
the rings would have delayed
proceedings had classes been big,
it worked smoothly. Other
breeds were judged indoors.
Luckily the weather was fine on
judging-day,
British Breeds
Romneys were down in
numbers, but competition was
improved by the challenge of the
Manton sheep from Victoria.
Most classes saw a ding-dong
battle between them and the
Hordern Romneys. Eventually
the Victorian stud took cham-
pion and reserve ram honors in
addition rt° good placings in
classes, while the Hordern Sheep
annexed ewe championship and
reserve. Gamboola Romneys
scored well throughout.
Border Leicesters were slightly
down in numbers, but were out-
standing in quality and keen-
ness of exhibitors. There was
a slight tail, but the tops were a
particularly fine lot. Strong
competition came from two
well-known Victorian studs —■
Kelso Park and Barfield Downs,
The size of some of the top
sheep was remarkable, with
backs as broad as a table. W. A.
O’Neill bred the champion ram
—Yarra lan—one of the best
seen in Sydney, while reserve
ribbon went to a Starrit (Vic.)
ram that was second to the
champion in a very strong one-
two-year class. A meritorious
performance was registered by
C. Squire, of Bumbaldry, who
entered two ewes in the two-
years-and-over class. Against
strong competition they came
first and second, and eventually
went on to win ©we champion-
ship and reserve respectively.
Southdowns had
mentation than usuM X re P re -
Brunskill sheep S but foe
vincible. With th?S Stlll in-
one pen class won bv r Ptl c on of
and Sons (Vic'i Starrit
ribbon and l^ ev m er y blue
female championship® and
serves went to Brunskill ? 1 re *
downs. The chnms South-
bred in N.Z^ S S even ra m,
and carries his age w e] f ars old
to beat all the youniS enou 8h
Starritt and Newburv S B,
well in class events" 7 *** did
Dorset Horns attracted
studs from S. Australia oV w °
general keenness of comn ? - he
is reflected in the wideP'-[ 0n
tion of awards. There stri^u "
tendency to legginess f n as a
entries, but onT i?
standard was high S the
female cha mpb „% s
A. Taylor, of Lmdsburv ‘ i ?
two outstanding sheep. Jeff
Dawkins yearling was re ’ S
ram, and this S A reserVe
well in the teed £i d
Reserve ewe was hnSr 8-
G. R. M. Smith and cfcne from
a shorn class. Other pr i z ™
winners were A. L. Bailev u /
Allen (S.A.), C. R Sf 1 '
and G. R. Shepherd G odacre
Four breeders, including two
from Victoria, represented C
lands. There was some varia-
tion in type, but, on the whole
quality was good. The V c
tonan studs won champion and
reserve honors—male to T j
Lilford and female to I. ivf c i
Intosh. The reserve ewe is a n '
imported animal and was shown
with a young lamb at foot
Patrician Stud scored well in
Ryeland class events.
Few Fleeces 1
It is regrettable that the
N.S.W. Sheepbreeders’ Show—
the biggest event of its kind in
the biggest wool-producing State
in the biggest wool-producing
country in the world—could
attract fewer than 50 fleeces.
That works out at less than one
fleece per million of the N.S.W.
sheep population and, to put it
mildly, it is a disgrace. Small
country shows in N.S.W. get
three times as many fleece
entries as Sydney can get from
the entire St&te.
This is no reflection on those
whose entries made up the ex-
hibit. Majority of the fleeces
come from the same studmasters
who constitute the backbone of
the sheep show, and they deserve
honorable mention: Walter
Merriman, of Merryville; Frank
McClung, of Winbri; and J. H.
Trail and Sons, of Tuwinga.
The other competitors were J. L.
and L. Hodgkinson, M. D. Tom-
linson, J. B. and K. B. Mitchel-
hill, C. F. J. Ritter and Miss A.
Bostock. The lastnamed runs a
stud in a Sydney suburb, and
although her entries were too
short-stapled for show class, her
spirit is commendable.
M, Carroll and Son entered
the one and only non-Merino
fleece. This was a Cornedale
fleece of great bulk and typical
Corriedale character that would
take a lot of beating m any


COLLECTED EDITION OF THE
POEMS OF BERNARD O’DOWD
including Poetry Militant; Davwiward?; The Silent Land; Dominions of th e
Boundary; The Seven Deadly Sins; The Bush and many other poems and
Fantasies.
PRICE 15/- (Post Free 15/6).
Obtainable NOW from all good Booksellers or from
LOTHIAN PUBLISHING COMPANY PTY., LTD..
1 Fleming Place, Melbourne.
Authors are asked to mark their name and address clearly on all MSS. submitted
MARK lAMBS IN
ML
weathers with
ELASTRATOR
Because there is no loss of blood, shock,
or weakening, lambs can be successfully
marked even under cold and wet condi-
tions by ELASTRATOR. They quickly
mother up and suffer no setback, growing
faster and maturing earlier.
ELASTRATOR is the modern way to mark
your lambs—it is safer, more humane, and
faster for the practised user.
Full stocks are available and supplies of
the new latex antiseptic ELASTRATOR
rings are assured, so get your ELASTRA-
TOR without delay.
ELASTRATOR
' (REGD. TRADE MARK)
for Bloodless, Safe, Humane
CASTRATION & TAILING
J OF
LAMBS & CALVES
From station suppliers, woolbrokers,, chemists
and stores. Instrument , £5/5/-; Antiseptic
Latex Rings , 25/- per box of 500 (Capital
City Prices.) 1 Y
Distributed in Victoria, Southern
Kiverina and Tasmania by
» G. OFFICER pxv.. LTD..
ioo Wll! i? m street > Melbourne, and
~” k Charles Street, Launceston.
Distributed in Queensland by
TAYLORS ELLIOTTS FTY.,
Brisbane—Rockhampton—' Townsville.
Distributed in N.S.W. by
ELLIOTTS BUBAL LABORA-
TORIES. ELLIOTTS * AUST.
DRUG TTY. LTD,,
S 5 Bligh Street, Sydney.
Distributed in South Australia by
BENNETT * FISHER, LTD..
i Currie St., Adelaide, and Branches.
Distributed In West Australia by
DAVID GRAY & CO. PTY., DTD.,
2-10 Railway Parade, West Perth.
A PRODUCT OF EDASTBATOB (AUST.) PTY., DTD.
EL. 5
Nu-MCTAL
SAVES
ENGINE
REBORE
NEW
RINGS
lust poor RE-NTJ Liquid NU-METAL
throughplug holes. NU-METAL will re-
condition your motor while you drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles,' and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL has been proved and
tested by over 100,000 users since 1934.
many owners haying used NU-METAL
three and fosjr times in the same engine.
NU-METAL comes to you in a separ-
ate tube (or each cylinder,' thus eliminat-
ing guess work. Municipal Councils,
Engineers, etc., nse NU-METAL, Treatment
costs tor U 4, 6, t cylinders, 10/6, 30/-.
37/6. 45/-. ,CaIU write, or phone MA7250.
Mail '. Orders post free. C.OJX’a plus
Postal Charges.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return NU-
METAL to treat a Cylinder Engine.
I enclose Cheque—PJ4.
i Or please send me illustrated Folder
describing action of NU-METAL.
tame ..............................
f**-~ B. 7/6/’5O
BRISTOL TRADING COMPANf
Ist Floor, Bristol House,
JM7 Uteabetfa Street, Sydney. MA 7250,
Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
“CANADIAN CLIPPER” Ready
Rubbed Aromatic Fine Cut Blended
from Top Quality Leaf. In 2oz.
Packs. Priced 24/- per lb. or loose
Priced 22/- per lb.
“PACIFIC" Fine Cut Ready Rubbed
for Satisfaction and Mildness, in 2oz.
Packs, Priced 3/- per pack,’or loose
Priced 22/- per lb.
“WINSTON,” That Fine Old Well
Matured Pipe Mixture that is now
even better than ever. Priced 20/-
per lb. Loose.
Remember WINSTONS. It’s good.
Write: MAIL ORDER DEPT.,
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co. f Ltd.
Box 77, Valley P. 0., Brisbane.
CASH WITH ORDER.
PROMPT DESPATCH.
Special Quotes Retailers For Orders
201 bs. or Over.
BLOTCHY
cll , f r> SKIN
g marred jby spots;
rashes and pimples is
quickly cleared by
Cuticura Ointment. It as-
sures skin health. Always
keep a tin of Cnticnra Oint-
ment in the house. Good for
cuts, bruises and sores. One
of the famous trio-Cuticura
Ointmqnf. Soap and
Talcum Powder.
S3J
d
DOCTORS • STATESMEN • SPORTSMEN • EDITORS
■JT*.
m
f/e
loom SMART
a/vosot
mem/
More successful men use
PALMOLIVE
than any other SHAVE CREAM
A credit to the company, that’s Bill! He’s the man
with that clean, s-m-o-o-t-h, successful look. You, too,
can have shaves that look good and feel good . . . Palmolive
Shaves! Palmolive soothes your skin as you shave
faster, closer without skin sting! Get Palmolive,
the shave cream of successful men!
LOOK SUCCESSFUL! BE SUCCESSFUL!
USE
BANKERS • EXECUTIVES • SALESMEN
LAWYERS
frusaaee
I
I
#
m
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
company. Surely there are other
Cornedale breeders who take
pride in the wool achievements
of the breed and who can spare
the little effort required to put
their fleece section on a basis
comparable to their sheep
entries.
The Merino fleeces were a
magnificent lot, with a few
short-stapled fleeces that were
not up to show standard. The
bulk and staple length of the
top fleeces were outstanding,
Most were in good, dry show
condition, although a few of the
ram fleeces carried a bit of con-
dition. Majority were fine or
superfine types, and the
character, evenness and style of
the winners would gladden the
heart of any woolman.
Grand champion ewe or
wether fleece came from J. H.
Traill and Son. It was a
beautiful shafty 70’s of great
bulk, stylish character and
plenty of body. Merryville
fleeces formed an exhibit that
would take a lot of beating in
any company. Their grand
champion ram fleece was a'real
exhibition wool of shafty 64’s,
bright and dry with splendid
bulk. The champion medium
ewe or wether fleece was also an
excellent specimen, but it was
too fine in quality to be regarded
as a typical medium.
If a criticism of the general
exhibition may be made, it is
of the display of the fleeces
and the confusion surround-
ing their identification. Cata-
logue numbers and awards
should be ‘attached firmly to or
in front of each fleece. In a
number of cases award tickets
did not agree with score-card
numbers, and many award
tickets were not on their proper
fleeces. It is difficult to re-
concile the award of grand
championship to a ewe or
wether fleece that did not appear
to qualify for the finewool
championship from which
section it came.
Australasian Breeds
Corriedale breeders were
strong in numbers and quality.
There was healthy competition
in every class, and the margins
wereso small at times that judg-
ing was prolonged.
Most successful competitor
was' H. F. Prell, whose sheep
have been consistent prize-
winners at Sydney for many
years. The Carroll clan also
scored well, ram championship
going to Redbank, reserve ewe
to Beulah and several ribbons to
Old Redbank. There was a
high level of quality in prac-
tically every class. Fleeces
showed some variation in
quality, with quite a few at
strong and fine extremes, but the
backs were well covered and
density was a strong feature of
the top sheep.
The champion ewe from Gun-
dowringa came from a strong
class of two-three-year old. She
is a big, capacious ewe with a
deep blocky staple of typical
Corriedale wool. Champion
ram from M. Carroll and Sons
also had great scale and dense
long-stapled bright wool of re-
markable evenness. Taking
them right through, there was
little evidence of tail in the
Corriedales—they were a fine
exhibit.
Polwarths were well and truly
in the doldrums. Only one com-
petitor—A. E. Coote of Manilla
—represented the breed, and
although the quality was good
there is little satisfaction in it
for the sole competitor or for
the prestige of the breed.
Hints for the Farm.
“C.A.A.”; Rape shouldn’t be
grazed until the leaves show a
purplish tinge. Best results are
obtained by grazing in breaks
which last the lambs a week.
Similarly with thousand-headed
kale—it must be fed in small
breaks arid grazed only lightly.
“Sundowner”: Where pas-
tures are topdressed annually,
lewt. per acre of cobaltized
fertiliser containing 61b. of
cobalt-sulphate per ton should
be applied. This rate will result
in the application of soz. of
cobalt - sulphate per acre,
sufficient to correct cobalt de-
ficiency.
“Big Billy”; To treat over-
loading of the stomach —a
common trouble of cattle —Vic.
Department of Agriculture re-
commends a dose of lib. to 21b.
of Epsom-salts combined with
molasses. If no satisfactory re-
sults occur within 24 hours, use
the same quantity of salts in two
to three gallons of water. Then
knead the paunch with the fist
for 10 to 15 minutes at intervals
of four hours. An alternative
drench is a gallon of liquid
paraffin or a quart of linseed-oil.
If the condition is accompanied
by bloat, one tablespoonful of
turps or one dessertspoonful of
formalin may be added to the
drenches.


fd
fdf
| We have security—
our affairs are in good hands
The appointment of Burns Philp Trust Company as executor
or trustee will take a similar weight off your mind. Consult a
senior Burns Philp Trust officer. If you cannot call, write for
a copy of "Hands That Never Leave the Wheel,” a booklet
giving full details of extra protection.
DIRECTORS:
James Burns Joseph Mitchell P. T. W. Black Eric Priestley Lee
MANAGER: L. S. Parker SECRETARY: E. R. Overton. F.F.I.A.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
Executor Trustee Attorney
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Tel. BU 5901 Box 543, G.P.CX
BPMA-BO
mm
m
m
%
W
SE
K±S.
s
From 30° below zero to 120° above ...
at airports all over the world including those of Melbourne
and Sydney the green and yellow symbol of BP Aviation
Service stands for speed, courtesy and efficiency. Qantas
Empire Airways and Trans-Australia Air Lines are amongst
the many national airlines regularly fuelled by this great Service,
which has behind It the global resources and reputation of the
Anglo-lranian Oil Company Ltd.
X^AYEO
ERVICE^
S
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD., ALL STATES. Telegraphic Address “AIRBEPEE” MELB.
371-23-3
Divorce Notices.
IN THE
TO MARY KhizADUiu
DALY of 146 Flinders
Sydney where
against you for dissolution desertion
123 of 1950 on the
without Just cause fo ...
SUPREME COURT OF
the Supreme Court at Rnsuaue r^
days from the publwabon “ e
may obtain without charge s py WE iiß,
writ and petition Brisbane.
Solicitor, 287 Gcorge Stree , q{ y
nV «*«
Registrar.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDEN
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COM
Head Office, liftm- 'sTREET. SYDNEY
Branches In all States Agencies In .
O.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Words of verse “Who Keeps the
Pub in Sydney Now.” —4846.
Words of verse “Nothing to Wear,”
written by an American, A. E. Butler,
about 1870, and beginning: —
Miss Flora McFlimsey of Madison Square
Has made three separate journeys to Paris.
—4847.
To buy copy of The Bulletin Story
Book.— 4844.
To buy copy of Express to Hindu-
stan. —4845.
Information Sought.
Can inkstains be eradicated from
an oak table ?
Stains are usually very stubborn.
The only really effective method is to
clean off with sandpaper and fine
emery-paper and repolish wood.
Another way is to rub stains with
hydrochloric acid and sponge off with
clean cold water after a few minutes.
When dry, table can be repolished
with raw linseed-oil.
♦ * * ♦
Details of the first escalator
installed in Sydney? When were the
escalators at Milsons Point put into
use and removed?
An escalator of French manufac-
ture was installed in Mark Foys,
Elizabeth-street, in August, 1909, and
ran for a number of ■years. The three
escalators at Milson’s Point were put
into service in August, 1924, and their
use was discontinued in March, 1932,
when the Harbor Bridge was opened.
* / * * *
Cause of dermatitis?
There are numerous causes, a
notable one being the application to
the body-surfaces of chemical irri-
tants, either while working at indus-
trial processes or during self-treat-
ment of some skin complaint. Tinea
is often accompanied by intense
dermatitis, aggravated by the over-
use of strong antiseptics.
* * * *
(1) What are relative deadliness
values of the venoms of the tiger-
snake, deathadder, taipan, the long
green snake of the N.T. and the
deadliest foreign snake? (2) Why is
the bite of the taipan considered to
be more deadly than that of the
deathadder ?
(1) Tiger, deathadder, taipan is the
order of deadliness of venoms of
equal quantity, but the order of dead-
liness of the bite is taipan, death-
adder, tiger. Foreign snakes of
equal deadliness to Australian snakes
are: India, king cobra, krait, Russell’s
viper; South Africa, black mamba,
puffadder; America, bushmaster, fer-
de-lance, rattlesnake. (2> The bite of
the taipan is more deadly than that
of any other Australian snake because
of its much longer fangs, which can
inject venom more deeply to the flesh.
It also injects a greater quantity of
venom.
* * * *
How to make rabbit-poison with
Scotch-thistle root ?
Use thistles that are well grown
but not shot up to flower. The roots,
contained in a kerosene-tin holed as
a colander and thoroughly washed,
are sliced into inch-long chips. A
half-cup of brown sugar is added to
a gallon of prepared roots; after two
hours the liquid is run off, roots are
spread in the sun on a sheet of iron
for 45 minutes and then put in a
container. Five teaspoons of ground
strychnine are added separately, the
container being shaken thoroughly
after each teaspoonful. Add one tea-
spoonful of vanilla essence and six
drops of oil of cummin just before
the trail is used.
* * * ♦
Brief history of the use of black-
trackers in Australia?
In the hunt for escaped convicts
and bushrangers, trackers were used
both in N.S.W. and Tasmania. In
1826 Governor Darling suggested that
intelligent natives be attached to the
police parties, and so valuable did
these men prove that in 1841 Captain
Dana formed a native police corps
in the Port Phillip district, which was
disbanded on his death in 1852. In
Q’land a native mounted-police corps
was formed by Frederick Walker; it
was disbanded after a few years’ ser-
vice, reorganised in 1857 and finally
disbanded in 1900. Troopers were
allowed to re-engage as trackers
attached to the general police force.
Other States recruited native trackers
for their regular police forces or
borrowed troopers from the Q’land
forces. In the early days some
trackers dealt cruelly with other
aborigines, but under proper super-
vision they have behaved finely, and
their capacity for special work is
indubitable.
* * * *
How can verdigris be cleaned from
a wood-fired copper?
Heat the copper and use powdered
sandsoap and kerosene, mixed to a
paste and applied with a woollen
cloth. Rinse with hot water, wipe
dry, and finally go over the inside
with a clean rag moistened with sweet
oil. Allow oil to remain until copper
is needed, then wipe dry and fill with
water.
* * ♦ *
When did the first electric train run
on the N.S.W. railways?
A six-car set left the Mortdale car-
sheds at 7.10 a.m. on March 1, 1926.
This train ran empty to Rockdale
and then served all stations to Sydney,
where it arrived at 7.48 a.m. During
the day it ran between Sydney and
Oatley.
* * * *
Recipe for a spray to protect car-
pets from silver fish, etc. ?
Mix one quart kerosene and £lb.
pyrethrum powder, stirring frequently
for two hours. Strain off powder
and add two fl. oz. methyl salicylate
to neutralise kerosene smell. Spray
floor and underside of carpet,
* * * *
Origin of the word thug, meaning
a ruffian?
A thug was originally a member of
a religious body of northern India,
worshippers of Kali, who could be
propitiated only by human victims
who had been strangled; hence the
thugs became a professional frater-
nity, and supported themselves by the
plunder obtained from those they
strangled. Their native nanie is
p’hansigars (“stranglers”). That of
thug (“cheat”) was given them in
1810. Their methods were rigorously
suppressed under British rule, and
were practically extinct by 1840.
* * * *
In English literature, what was
known as “rogue literature”?
A type of literature, written in
prose, which was popular in the Eliza-
bethan period in England. It dealt
realistically and exuberantly with the
lives and adventures of thieves, vaga-
bonds and tricksters in the “under-
world” of London or the highways
of the rural districts, often expanding
from fact to fiction, and is regarded
as one of the forerunners of the
English novel. Robert Greene and
Thomas Dekker were the outstanding
authors of rogue literature.
In World War I p Es ™drille?
participation, a unit o f 4° Am erican
volume nSlStin ® ent >rely f Jf C A Ch avm-
thpTr rS - Na med in L American
de i !f CeS by K? ry <*
de . Lafayette f or ts« .^su-quis
the° n Am l - he Sc l Ua dron fw merican
.Amencan fl ag 0 a “st raised
front in April, 1917 T .P} e We stern
s: s
wSTV .fts A&*
Eagle Squadron. American
* * *
Some details concerning „ *
bars a Canadian secl, h J
news? 6eci Wely j„ thg
, le u khobors or in tv, n
form Dukhobortsy V Russian
wrestlers), are a fanatical A s P‘ r 't
m Russia in 1785 bv S S? foun ded
Procope Loupkin jZ nJ old *r
hold that their u \h°bors
spirit of Christianity t n ° n f the true
them the duty to reject^® B Upon
images, rites and cerSnS Use ot
pense with an ordaffn‘ 6S ’ to dis-
deny the divinity of and t 0
the authority of scriptures as
of ritual murders and cru P lt; AccU u Sed
were removed to the r“ ' es ' diey
1841; because of continneH UCasus in
hon, thousands emisra L ? Persecu-
in 1898. They t 0 Canada
m an inner light to , Relieve
incarnations. 8 nd Several divine
Brief Answers.
E.J.McL.: Wanganui nr tw.
ganui as it was written earlier Whan '
“a great haven or baT’-
from “whanga,” a bay and d ‘‘ nVed
If 8 - 6 ' H Kai ‘T ea “red ochre’"
It is derived from “kara ”
stone, dark in color, and “mea^n
or reddish B.K • ’ r^ ed
was negligent. Claims should be A
on drivers of both motor cycle a S
car. Damages depend on extent of
EStv° mi? w s ges '
incapacity, pam and suffering and
?f T er .. ° sses - s ee a solicitor...
M.L.McC.: The 1921 royal commis-
sion on uniform railway gauges
recommended the 4ft. gauge for
adoption as standard.... s C •It k
against our policy to make any par-
ticular recommendation. There are
hundreds of reputable men from
whom you can make your choice.
.. ..R.P.: Write French Consulate-
General, 84 Pitt-street, Sydney....
0.Lr.x1.: Write Australian Journalists’
Association, 166 Phillip-street, Sydney
.. . .N.D.H.: Write D. Raymond, 128
Bathurst-street, Sydney... .A.G • (1)
A dismissal by a master of his ser-
vant contrary to the terms of the
contract of service. (2) A master is
not bound to give reasons for dis-
missal, but in the absence of any
ground for summary dismissal (e.g.,
dishonesty, incompetency, drunken-
ness, etc.) he is bound, if the con-
tract is not for a fixed term, to give
reasonable notice of dismal
A.E.S.: Description covers such a
wide range of articles manufactured
by so many firms that more exact
particulars would be required before
a useful list could be supplied. Sug-
gest you write to the secretaries of the
Chambers of Manufacturers in the
various capital cities 8.5.H.L.:
Write Mr. H. W. B. Chester, 76
Elizabeth-street, Sydney, who is sec-
retary of the trust E.N. : Oversize
tyres on rear wheels would not affect
transmission on normal rear-wheel
drive, but on four-wheel drive the
larger-tyred wheels would be turning
faster than the other two, which
might have some effect on the trans-
mission, even though scarcely notice-
able. Before fitting oversize tyres
make sure your mudguard clearance
allows for them N.McL.: Com-
monwealth age pensions were intro-
duced by the Deakin Government in
1909, The pension was then 10s. a
week, and permissible income was
also 10s. a week. Invalid pensions
were introduced by the Fisher
Government in 1910, also at the rate
of 10s. per week—L.A.H.: Poem
“Lawrence the Mug” appeared on
the Red Page, Bulletin, January 6,
1943 V.HrP.: Mushroom spawn
can be obtained either from Anderson
and Cos., 90 Parramatta-road, Summer
Hill (N.S.W.), or Arthur Yates and
Cos., Box 2707 C, G.P.0., Sydney.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACKSOIy $
O&UIXIVAV
j -v mm .t,,
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
• OPERATORS
•TEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS. BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : ! PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
•'IACKSUL,” BRISBANE
General MacArthur
reports on Japan
“The Japanese not only lost
the war,” says MacArthur,
“they also lost confidence in
their former way of life . . .
they will never accept Com-
munism. It spells Russia to
them— and if there is one thing
the Japanese know, hate and
fear, it is Russia . . . Japan
should be the ‘Switzerland of
the Far East,' and neutral for
the same reasons that Switzer-
land Is neutral no matter
which side she might join she
would inevitably be destroyed.”
Read this absorbing article
—of vital interest to every
Australian—in June Reader's
Digest, one shilling and six-
pence at all newsagents and
bookstalls.
BRAN DAL) ERA
7*
PENS
Every point
guaranteed—
not experiment with imitation*
* CO. LTD, BIRMINGHAM, ENG
INSURANCE —for your profeefion
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in Bong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £10,000,000. Established 1835,
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BWBI3I (3 lines). C. R. CORNWELL. Manager.
v 7;
OVERCOATS
< BY
TOPDOG
THE BRAND WITH A PEDIGREE
sunspots are the result of high
electro-magnetic charges from
outer space on the internal state
of the sun, and that these
charges vary in orderly sequence
owing to the control exerted
upon them by the magnetic fields
of the four major planets, so
that there were four cyclical
periods acting in combination,
and this in itself removed one
of "the great troubles that was
found in the study of cycles.
Sir Norman Lockyer had tried
to use cycles in India in order
to predict the monsoonal rains,
but this was not satisfactory,
and in the end he denounced
cycles as a means of prediction,
Denunciation coming from so
eminent a man was a serious
blow to their further study, and
there was another great diffi-
culty, namely, that no matter
how long a record any station
had it was never possible to
find a year that was a clear repe-
tition of any previous year, and
this put the use of a single cycle
clearly out of court.
If, on the other hand, my dis-
covery of the combined cycles
was right, then we have no
record which could find this
repeat, and any schoolboy can
tell you that the L.C.M. of the
periods of the four major planets
at 12, 29, 84 and 165 years
would come to about 5000 years,
and that only by reducing them
to round numbers and leaving
out the decimals. This reason-
ing removed one of the greatest
objections and left the field clear
for further work.
The use of the Birkeland
experiment also showed how the
connection between the times of
the average sunspot fluctuation
and the period of Jupiter was to
be reconciled; and we had a
great advance by finding that in
the connection with Jupiter and
the path of the sun through space
at once gave us the periods of
all the major droughts of Aus-
tralia, and so the missing datum-
point for the cycles.
Also, the close daily study of
the sunspots soon revealed the
important effect that those out-
breaks had immediately upon
the weather, and that there was
a position of these on the sun
where they were apparently the
immediate cause of strong
weather changes, which also
could be indicated on the syn-
chronous charts of the previous
weather cyclical data. These are
drawn by taking the intervals of
the planets and plotting the data
for the years, one above the
other, when by again plotting
the present season as it unfolds
the way in which the component
details are recombined. This
shows quite clearly how the
weather is developed, and so the
secret, of its vagaries is unveiled.
There is still one difficulty in its
practical application, and it is
that, as these cycles are of great
length, it requires long and com-
plete records to deal with them.
I shall now show how these
periods were fully determined.
In 1896 Professor Zeemann
discovered that the sunspots were
very powerful magnetic fields,
while the rest Of the sun did not
show this magnetic property very
strongly. Dr. Ellery Hale, of
Mt. Wilson Observatory, in
1912 discovered that there was a
reversal of the polarity of the
sunspots with the new cycle, and
this has been observed at each
new epoch ever since. This led
Dr. Abbot to test the possibility
of there being a weather cycle
of 22 to 23 years, of 46 years
and of 90 years, but as this is
merely another form of the
single cycle it has not proved
very helpful. When I dealt with
this reversal it occurred to me
that the unsatisfactory results
of the Bruckner cycle at times
might be because of this reversal,
and, as I had connected this
cycle with the combined effects
of the orbits of Jupiter and
Saturn, I tried to find whether
it might give better results at the
double period of 71 years, when
the polarities were again simi-
lar ; and this has given a cycle
of this period, which has here
been regarded as the Main
Cycle. Saturn gives at his double
period a cycle of 59 years and
Uranus one of 84 years, while
that of Neptune, though prob-
ably of great importance, can-
not begin to be tested till 1953,
when the first Sydney records
become of the age of 165 years.
These, then, are the four
cycles, which, by their continu-
ous recombination, produce each
new season, and by their means
it should be possible to predict
the general character of the sea-
sons for any time in advance
with sufficient accuracy for the
general purposes of the primary
industries.
The final development of the
system was aided by the work
of the Radio Research Institutes,
which, in dealing with static,
found that there are certain
echoes coming from as far afield
as the Milky Way, and through
this I was able to locate the
source of the emanations that
control and disturb the sun,
which is really the nearest part
of the Milky Way which lies at
the point where the paths of the
planets or the ecliptic come
between this source*and the sun.
The result is that the solar sys-
tem is found to be a vast electro-
magnetic machine which is auto-
matically controlled by the mag-
netic fields of its own members,
and as these effects are con-
stant it is possible, by their use,
to obtain the general character
of the weather, among other
things. The result is so simple
that it should be possible, as
soon as the records cover the
whole of Australia —for the
Main Cycle first and later the
others—for anyone to know,
what the season is likely to be
from a study of the records of
his district once the cyclical
years are known. This it is the
function of the observatory to
supply.
I came to Sydney in April this
year to ensure the continuance
of my work till such time as
this cover is available. The
cover for the Main Cycle should
be complete in 1958.'
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany .
MS. should be addressed to the Editor,
P.: “Cooburra” just missed....
E.K.: Wish you luck in your house,
but you don’t make it clear whether
you’re going to work your 20 acres
or, otherwise, how you propose to
finance living “on your 0wn”....
R.F.: Your “New Australian” is
merely a 1950 version of the old-time
English jackeroo who married the
squatter’s daughter 8.M.: Doubt
whether anybody as drunk as all that
could have performed those heroics.
.... Bellerive: Shine on:
. ...T.C.: The romantic postman is
now trudging his way home....
E.G.M.: You have tried to tell too
many stories in one J J.M.: It is
more like an election-speech than a
short story E.F.F.: Probably suit-
able for a high school magazine, but
certainly not for us P.R.: The
local color seems to have been lifted
from an out-of-date guide b00k....
8.5.8.: Phyllis will have to have
her tantrums elsewhere D.W.0’8.:
Those larrikins belong to the days-of-
old pushes, not to these times....
V. : The beginning is verbose, the
middle is muddled and the end is
unreal M.M.: Not letting the slip-
rail down for that old friend
K.D.M.: It scored a yawn every
paragraph R.G.: Others have
travelled that track W.S.: Should
the day ever arrive when we are
compelled to print yarns about
haunted English castles we shall enlist
your aid N.W.: Says the obvious
in a dreary and rambling way....
A.McL.: Have yet to meet the pug
who could win a world-championship
fight after a five-weeks’ bender
W. :It reached the w.p.b. in record
time L.S.: Not in the market fpr
that class of story J.McG.: Nellie
will not join our gallery of heroines.
A.8.W.: Why didn’t you follow your
original intention to send it to a
“journal with a less-exacting literary
standard”?... .Lester N.: That golf
yarn has been told many times at the
nineteenth N.C.: “The Singing
Dustman” is out of tune Too-
too: Good material carelessly
handled. A little streamlining here
and there and it might see print.
POINT LONSDALE LAGHTHOUSE.
Thro the passing years
Against many a gale
Stands the old lighthouse
At Point Lonsdale.
Thro the fogs of winter
And summer night air
Brightly shines out
Its brilliant glare.
Thro Port Phillip heads
It guides the ships.
To and fro on
Their regular trip’s.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4j|d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
costs it is impossible for the average
couple to save a cent. They can’t even
hope to own their own homes by their
own efforts in a great number of cases.
Are we to blame them for taking a lottery-
ticket regularly in the hope that some
week they’ll win and be able to fulfil
their dreams? “To travel hopefully is
better than to arrive,” and to this type
of person a lottery-ticket is one way of
doing it.
I know that too many take too many
tickets, but I couldn’t help feeling a
sneaking sense of fellowship with J. B.
Priestley when in a recent article he de-
clared that there is nothing on earth that
has the magic touch and gives the out-of-
the-world thrill that we get from “money
for nothing.” There’s solid satisfaction
in what we earn by honest exertion, but
having won a tenner lately, with two
office colleagues, I know that there’s
something about that lottery win which
is different from anything else. — Una
Auld (N.S.W.).
Housing
Anxious to discredit the Common-
wealth Government, the N. S. Wales
Minister for Housing snapped up the
offer of a local builder to supply 500
mass-produced timber-framed houses
which the Commonwealth Government
had rejected.
The Commonwealth Minister for
Works and Housing said that the dwell-
ings were rejected because they were too
small —seven and eight squares. The
Self-determination
Some notions expressed at the South
Pacific Conference should give Aus-
tralians cause to think. As far as can
be judged by the newspaper reports,
nationalism and self-determination were
subjects much harped upon. At the
moment we are witnessing three great ex-
amples of self-determination in progress
—lndia and Burma, the N.E.I. and the
Philippines. It doesn’t seem to be work-
ing. Perhaps it will some day, but it’s
a long way off.
I lately visited the capital of a large
group of islands which I remembered as
a pleasant though somewhat earthquaky
city in pre-war days, pervaded by trans-
pacific hustle. Today it seems in some
disrepair, due to a bombardment and
Japanese occupation, but self-determina-
tion is in full swing. The inhabitants are
pleasant and courteous people, but not
remarkable for mental balance. I should
hesitate to trust any of them with fire-
arms, yet from the waistband of each
man’s trousers or the top of his sarong
a revolver or automatic protruded. How-
ever, I only witnessed three shooting-
matches in seven days, though one took
place in the lounge of the best pub in
town.
After being in residence for a couple
of days I was called on by the migration
officials and borne away to the Depart-
ment of Immigration. In vain I protested
that I had paid my capitation fee and
filled forms innumerable. It would not
serve. 1 had contravened some regula-
tion, but no one would say which. After
waiting all day in mounting trepidation it
was hinted that “fifty smackers to the guy
in the green eyeshade over there” would
purge my offence. I didn’t ask for a
receipt. I gathered that public officers’
salaries were usually in arrears and, as
a Customs official later told me with a
sad look as he pouched a note: “Dinero,
to eat, it is necessary, Senhor.”
Another little piece of self-determina-
tion was a civil war within 50 miles of
the capital. I can assure all self-deter-
miners that this was definitely bad for
business and caused actual want, besides
casualties and ill-feeling. As far as I
could see the main cause of it was bad
temper and irresponsibility.
To say the least, that capital city was
a much pleasanter place for all hands
when it was under the wicked white ex-
ploiter. South Pacific Conference dele-
gates should be taken to countries that
are practising their newly-acquired
nationalism and be allowed to see what
goes on. Half Asia has been plunged
into chaos by too precipitate granting of
“independence.” Salt Horse Pom
(Vic.).
Lotteries
I realise “A.J.H.” is right (B. 10/5/’5O)
when he deplores the amount of money
spent on lottery-tickets. I never hear any-
one decrying the habit, however, without
remembering back to the days of the
slump when, as an impressionable
youngster, I lived in a house owned by
a social-welfare worker.
To that house, night and day, came a
steady stream of humanity, down-at-heel
and down to the breadline. It was a grim
sight, and I’ve never forgotten it.
Pregnant women, hollow-eyed with
worry, were frequent callers. They had
to be outfitted with layettes, given food
dockets for a certain amount of nourish-
ing food for. which the dole didn’t
provide.
Yet those same women were some of
the worst offenders —in the eyes of many
well-fed, well-housed people. Why?
Because once a week they trailed off to
the picture-shows and saw a film. Not
enough money for food or clothing, yet
they’d deliberately squander a shilling or
so on a visit to a film or on a bag of
lollies. What the comfortable people
couldn’t understand was that the poor
devils had to have some avenue of
escape—even if it was only through a
Hollywood actress or a boiled sweet.
Without that little relief from grim
reality they couldn’t have gone on.
Doesn’t the same principle apply to a
minor degree nowadays, when so many
couples and single people flock to the
lottery-office, because hope is as much
an ingredient of contented living as good
food or clothing? On today’s spiralling
State Minister says they are larger —eight
and nine squares. Whatever the size, the
price is £1450 and £l6O0 —or £lBO per
square at least, without the cost of the
land and without counting the extra
weight for overhead occasioned by the
sponsorship of the Housing Commission.
The point about the pre-fabs., however,
is that a house of seven or eight squares
is of no use to a growing Australian
family—the class of citizen that the Gov-
ernment should be worrying about. Such
a dwelling is too small to be anything
more than a temporary expedient.
There is no quick way out of the post-
war housing mess. Reconditioning of
existing dwellings, rather than demoli-
tion, would help. It would require less
money, less materials and less time.
Facilitating construction of houses and
flats to let and for private purchase
would help considerably. But facilita-
tion means an honest effort to deal with
production of materials. A Labor poli-
tician with genuine regard for the
people’s welfare would long ago have
pointed out to all the workers in the
building and allied industries the urgent
need for a continued maximum output
and would have backed up his argument
with action to remove the darg, go-slow
and “black” bans which have hampered
every phase of the housing programme
and have hamstrung every attempt to
achieve the production of which the in-
dustry is capable.
The State Government cannot provide
the homes and it will not permit private
enterprise to enter the field of tenant in-
vestments. True, it has not specifically
barred them, but with its Landlord and
Tenant legislation it has made entry into
the field virtually impossible. The only
people who have benefited are the rack-
renting head tenants who are subletting
every square foot of space they can find
and who have done more to create slum
conditions than any absentee landlords
ever did.— Cave (N.S.W.).
One of the least-ventilated aspects of
the housing problem is the injustice of
rent-control in fixing rents at the 1939
level, when everything else, including
salaries of Ms.P., has increased.
For hot-water service in that time the
price of coke has risen from £1 10s. to
£3 Is. per ton; electricity for refrigera-
tion from £3 per quarter to £l2, and all
other things, including wages, to a fairly
similar extent.
Few landlords expect control to be
abolished, but we do want the Act
administered fairly. If any tenant goes
to the department, the controller is all
out to help at the Government’s expense,
but no matter how serious the complaint
from a landlord against a tenant the same
authority is not interested. C. K.
(N.S.W.).
Shorter Hours for Dairymen
Dairying has always been looked on
as a Cinderella industry, as regards hours
of work, living and working conditions,
unpaid labor of women and children, and
financial returns to farmer and employees.
Actually the last half-century has seen
the industry transformed by modern
machinery, the motor-car, telephone and
radioand now better roads, electric-
power, a guaranteed price based on cost
of production and a dairying award are
helping to lift it to a more respected
place in the community.
But the central and inescapable fact
remains that the cows must be milked
and the milk (in many cases) delivered,
utensils washed, pigs and calves fed, twice
a day, 365 days in the year. When, as
is the almost universal practice, everyone
helps with these jobs, it means that no-
body can leave the farm for more than a
few hours without throwing an undue
burden on someone else. Of secondary
importance is the spread of hours, which
may be 14 or more in midsummer. Few
“ They’ve overdone this built-in cocktail-bar idea —I have to use a bottle-
opener to get the choke out.”
dairymen, owners or employees, now feel
that they are grossly overworked, and
their money returns, though not high,
have risen substantially in recent years
and look like going higher. It is the
eternal bondage of the cowyard, and, to
a very much less extent, die length of
the working day, that sickens so many
of the life.
There is much talk nowadays of a 48-
or even 40-hour week in the industry,
but few suggestions as to how it shall
be worked. What most of the advocates
of shorter hours seem to mean is that
we should still work 56 hours or more,
but that the price of dairy produce and
the dairy award should be substantially
increased by way of overtime on the
extra hours worked. It is very doubtful
whether the Arbitration Court would
agree to such an arrangement, and in any
case it does not touch the real problem,
though the extra “sugar” might sweeten
the pill a little. The only real remedy
seems to be some form of shift work or
division of labor, and that, in turn, means
larger farms. — Magnoon (Q.).
Rubber Roads
None of Melbourne’s 34 municipalities
has even discussed or considered the
American idea of making roads with a
small mixture of rubber in the asphalt
(B. 15/2/’5O). They all dismiss the idea
' as a piece of American propaganda for
big business.
- Some references to the scheme, pub-
lished in “Tramway Topics,” a monthly
news-sheet issued by the Tramways Board
to its staff and employees, were re-
written in a Melbourne newspaper, but
a subsequent check for a “follow-up”
by the paper among the municipalities
produced a completely negative reply.
Melbourne municipal engineers, all with
years of street-making experience, dis-
miss the idea as too costly and causing
an unnecessary wear and tear of tyres.
Although one Melbourne rubber firm
has a piece of rubber pavement outside
its offices, that k nn „
of the American scheme^?!? 1 in f avor
never touched by motor l- mb ber is
receives careful~almo St d eh , lcles and
tion by the staff, as it is a fmS l y"atten-
ment for rubber. good advertise-
There’s more in maVirw*
throwing a few tons of asphah?^ 5 - than
on the road and levelling it JS? mixt ure
roller. Most of the munfcim? a sfeam-
claim they have the t?® neer s
stand the test of Ch
most of Melbourne’s suburban dglllB by
roads today I think thesJ city
something.— Waddlin’ w? LL iE (Vi c) have
* *Tr anspor ticus’ *
I m not often moved to
rival, but I’d like to cini.?? 1 a
porticos” for his sustained (and to"® 1 '
mind successful) efforts to combat
made on the railways by OFM attac^s
butors. Week after week,
month, some new critic rushefkf h fter
the iron horse and.
deals with ’em-an unfair coipariL *
illogical argument, a mere personal ; 3
ference or a definite viSSS£l*
I don’t know what job “T” do.,
there in Singapore, but he certainly Seme
to know Australia's transport pmEs
inside out and is able to write of £
with persuasive force.— -J. Too (Tas)
Military Service
After five wasted years it appears that
universal military service is to be rl
introduced in Australia. I suppose the
training period will be a year, or even
less, with annual camps. Not enough to
make a sailor, soldier or airman, but
better than nothing. 1
I suggest the following scheme to take
some of the sting out of being “com-
pulsorily” a soldier. Say to the trainee
“Now you’re in this for one year whether
you like it or not. Under our scheme
you may volunteer now for a second
year. If you do this you shall, subject to
physical qualifications, join the branch
of the service you prefer. Think it over,
boy. Join (say) the Armored Corps as a
two-year man and leave the drudging to
the one-year fellow who grudges his ser-
vices to his country," Give the two-year
man a special flash to wear. This may be
rank favoritism, but it ought to work. The
great curse of conscription is the implied
unwillingness of the soldier to serve. The
Chinese have a proverb which says “Two
willing men can cleave a passage through
the rock whilst five pressed slaves are
moistening their hands.” —S. H. P, (Vic.).
“In the Eating Thereof”
Here in the Speck we’ve been growling
about our bread for months, but it is
still eatable at four days (B. 26/4/’5O),
albeit flavorless and dry.
In his autobiography. Goodbye to All
That, Robert Graves tells of bread he
had in France, made by Army bakers
and transported in hessian bags, which
was good to eat at three weeks’ old, so
long as it was kept dry. My mother has
often told me that when as a child,
between 50 and 60 years ago, she visited
relatives in rural England, they always
started bn a fresh batch of bread a fort-
night after they’d made it.
I think the reason for today’s poor-
quality bread (and many tfther goods)
is that a big proportion of us are now
mere time-servers; we lack that pride in
the quality of our work natural to the
true craftsman, and it would be mtere
ing to know to what extent machinery
responsible. — Taswegian (Tas.).
Vandalism ,
Acts of vandalism against public and
private property suggest somcthmgl
ing in the educational system Duufijl
of trees and defacing of toilet con 1
ences are two most common ; n
the virus sometimes manifests
other peculiar forms. cant .
In our district several hundred g
lings piled in a heap prepay“ 0 «r a
used as tree-guards were must have
wide area, an °P e^ atl ° n . j n another
taken a great deal of ‘ from a dance
case young people return! gt feW m iies
were forced to walk th L s breakdown,
home because of a heir anno y-
Whether they sought to t 0 say,
ance on the countrysi uprooted a
but as they went along they P sts
considerable number of white g
on the road. every
These periodic ° utbrea to some
community has them P a(joiescents—
weakness in or both."
either in home or ctawrooni.
Plain Australian (Vic.;.


age of 71 to the age of 75, he covered
Australia, with glory:
1945: Melbourne - Sydney - Melbourne;
1136 miles; 9 days. 1946: Melbourne-
Adelaide-Melbourne; 1138 miles; 8 days.
1946; 24 hours non-stop; 256 miles. 1947:
Melbourne-Brisbanc-Sydney; 2500 miles; 23
days. 1948: Melbourne-Adelaide-Darwin-
Brisbane-Melbourne; 6000 miles; 56 days.
1948: Melbourne-Perth and return; 4500
miles'; 62 days. 1949: Melbourne-Brisbane-
Melbourne.
Accounts of these tours fill the last half
of the book; how he slept by the road-
side in beds of leaves; how he went
thirsty on the way to Perth ; how he ad-
vised the returned soldiers at Darwin to
decorate their club-rooms; how he
“dipped his wheels” in the ocean at
Fremantle “as showing that I had com-
pleted the crossing of Australia from the
Pacific Ocean at Bondi Beach, Sydney, to
the Indian Ocean,” and also in the ocean
at Darwin, and at Brisbane (to show he
had crossed Queensland); how a young
wife enchanted him with a swear-word on
a deserted road halfway to Perth ; how
all people entertained him and made much
of him; and how, on his first trip to Syd-
ney, he slept among trees at Liverpool at
10 p.m., a matter which produced the
most powerful and thought-provoking
sentence in the book :
It was Sunday night, and no use going
into Sydney at that hour....
There is confession, also, of two
“crimes,” both of which he attempts to
laught off lightly, but both of which
obviously sit hard on his conscience. The
first is of sleeping in the lounge of a Goul-
burn hotel all Sunday night after he had
vainly sought attention, and then of racing
off at dawn, still without having seen or
settled with the landlord. Not only this,
but he has forgotten which hotel it was,
so that he can no longer approach Goul-
burn without feelings of guilt and danger.
The second confession is about the tank
outside the garage near Scone which he
approached at dawn on his way to Bris-
bane. All he wanted was a drink of
water;
The garage-owner’s house was only ten
yards away, but the sun not being risen,
all was quiet. I took my water-bottle over
to the tank, all about which was a tumbled
heap of broken boxes. Found no key on
the tap, so tapped the bottom of the tap
to slacken it for turning. Garage man had
removed the nut from stopper of tap for
some reason and not replaced it. When I
tapped with a small stone the stopper of
the tap flew out altogether, and dropped
out of sight in the mound of rubbish. The
precious water gushed out in a cascade like
an umbrella, leaving me like the “brave
little Hollander” we used to read about at
school, who stayed bravely all night stop-
ping the leak in the dyke with his hand....
I thought this was no time and place
for such heroism.... So I stood away from,
the tank and the cascade went on merrily,
while I slipped round to my bike and away
up the road like a back-marker in a road-
race
The Rommel Book.
It is understandable that Brigadier
Desmond Young’s Rommel (Collins)
should have aroused a rumpus when it
first appeared in England. The brigadier,
who says such things as 1 apologise for
liking German generals. I suppose i
ought not to do so. But ... I liked
General Bayerlein,” writes of war as if
it were a supremely interesting sport, in
which Rommel was a very sporting
opponent.
Controversy may also lie in the slight
asperity to be detected in Brigadier
Young’s references to Field Marshal
Montgomery, whom he describes as a
“new broom” ; his own heart, perhaps.
being with the older brooms of the
desert:—
an y d °ubt that his supreme
trm^h” n^ e !i Ce anc bis of “the common
tmnnc h 'wr u anelectric effect upon the
n™ P K Wu , h l he advantage of being a
new broom, he inspired first curiosity, then
«.,i tben admiration. The admiration
was well-deserved. There is, however, no
cause to magnify either his great victory
or his great personal qualities by suggest-
ing that the Eighth Army had ceased to
exist as a fighting force when he took it
over. it had captured more than 7000
pnsoners during July. It had stopped
Komrael s advance to the Delta. It had
paved the way for a major offensive which
it was then too weak to undertake.
But the problem of. how much legend
is mixed with the resplendent facts of
Montgomery’s career may safely be left
to the military historians to sort out;
and probably most soldiers, at least for a
vanquished European enemy, feel some-
thing of the same ironic and lethal affec-
tion as does the brigadier for Rommel.
Perhaps it is sufficient to point out here
that Brigadier Young has the support of
Field Marshal Auchinleck ; that Rommel,
though the Nazis claimed him in life and
(after they had forced him to commit
suicide) in death, was never a member of
the Party ; that he “ranked the Australians
highly as individual fighting men but
thought they were inclined to get out of
hand” and had for the New Zealanders
a great and lasting admiration” ; that
General von Ravenstein, as a prisoner
in Cairo, wrote to Major-General “Jock”
Campbell congratulating him on his V.C.
and saluting him as “my brave adversary
in the tank battle of Sidi-Rezegh” . . .
and, on the other hand, that Rommel
worked secretly for German rearmament
after the Great War; that, as Brigadier
Young records, “it would be idle to pre-
tend that Rommel had any qualms of
conscience over the ihvasion of Poland” ;
and, finally, that Rommel only turned
against Hitler when it seemed that the
war would be lost and that from this
biography, as from Schacht’s Account
Settled, one gets the strongest possible
impression that, even if Hitler had never
been heard of, Germany would have
started a second World War.
Brigadier Young himself fought in the
Western Desert. After he was captured
at Bit Harmat a German captain ordered
him to go with a flag of truce and order
a British battery to stop firing; the
brigadier refused ; and, possibly saving
his life, Rommel drove up and told the
captain that Young could not be com-
pelled to obey the order. His book can
hardly fail to be interesting from the
military viewpoint—and, in fact, as well as
his clear and concise summaries of the
battles, it contains many stories that most
people don’t know or have forgotten:
the information for instance, that when
Major Keyes, in the exploit that cost him
his life and won him the V.C., burst into
Rommel’s “headquarters” at Beda Lit-
toria, he had been doomed to failure
from the start —not merely because
Rommel happened to be in Rome that
night, but because “these were not his
headquarters but the headquarters of his
‘Q’ staff . . . his own headquarters were
in the desert west of Derna.”
But Brigadier Young’s book is also
good—remarkably good—as a biography.
There is not much light and shade in the
picture it gives of Rommel, not much to
vary the straightforward story of a fight-
ing soldier. But Rommel may well have
been just as the Brigadier portrays him.
We learn that he had a happy childhood
and was happily married ; that he liked
mountaineering and country life ; that “at
home he played the violin in an
amateiirish fashion but was otherwise
easy to live with” ; that once, excusing
the Italians, he said, “One must not judge
everyone in the world only by his quali-
ties as a soldier: otherwise we shoulc
have no civilisation”; and for the rest,
as far as his life outside the army went,
General Speidel, Rommel’s extremely
acute and intelligent Chief of Staff in
Normandy, remarked to me that he did
not suppose that Rommel had ever read
a book in his life that had not to do
with war.”
Asa soldier Rommel is first en-
countered in action in France, in August,
1914, deciding, with three men to support
him, to attack some 15 or 20 of the enemy
—after which, calling up his platoon, he
attacked and took a village. And then:
Despite his illness and the colossal exer-
tions of the moving warfare of that period,
he carried on, sometimes fainting, but never
reporting sick, until on September 24 he
was wounded in the thigh when attacking
three Frenchmen in a wood near Varennes,
alone with an empty rifle.
Then we see him, on the Rumanian
front in 1917, in daring exploits behind
the enemy’s lines; swimming the icy
waters of the Piave at night with six
men roped together to capture the village
of Longaroni; “walking straight into a
mass of armed men,” accompanied by
two other officers and a few riflemen,
and capturing 1500 Italians; up to his
waist in water in World War 11, helping
to build a bridge across the Meuse under
heavy fire, and then leading his tanks
across ; driving into —and hastily out of
town of Lille when it was full of
British and French soldiers; walking into
and quietly out of—a field hospital in
the desert when he realised it was still
in the hands of the British ; piloting his
own plane in a sandstorm; inviting an
Italian general, to a Spartan lunch which
consisted of “only three slices of bread,
and they were all stale” ; flying back to
Africa from hospital in Germany, “a
very sick man and in no condition to
to the desert and fight a desperate
battle,” when Alamein was in progress
and Hitler asked him to do what he
could about it; and, in Tunisia, at the
time when the Allied armies had him, in
Montgomery’s memorable phrase, “run-
ning about between us like a wet hen,”
still capable of this sort of direct action:
Under heavy fire Rommel drove up in
his staff-car to the commander of a tank
battalion who was sitting inside his tank
with the lid closed, at the entrance to a
village. Rommel rapped on it. “What
are you doing?” he asked the battalion
commander when he opened up. “It is
impossible to get on,” replied that officer.
At the same moment a salvo from a British
battery burst all round the tank. The lid
was hastily closed and the battalion com-
mander imagined that Rommel must be
dead. Ten minutes later there was another
rap on the lid. It was Rommel, who had
driven forward into the village and now
returned. “You are quite right,” he said,
“there are four anti-tank guns at the other
end of the street. -Another time you might
go and get that sort of information for
yourself.”
If the portrait of Rommel up to this
point as “the perfect fighting animal”
lacks light and shade —except for a few
touches of humor and humanity—there
was certainly no lack of shade in the
closing days of the Nazi regime ; and,
drawn step by step into the conspiracy
against Hitler, Rommel stands out all the
more firmly in this book because of the
essential simplicity and directness of his
character and because of the plain words
in which Brigadier Young tells his story.
If it is the tragedy of a German general
who was perfectly willing to continue the
war if Hitler would produce the atom-
bomb —-“since it may decide the war in
our favor” —it is still, as told to Brigadier
Young by Rommel’s widow and son,
humanly moving.
Rommel began to distrust Hitler, it
appears, about the time of Alamein,
when the Fuhrer promised him all sorts
of improbable aid for the Afrika Korps
—“I wonder if he told me all that just
to keep me quiet?” He joined the con-
spiracy organised by Dr. Goerdeler and
Colonel-General Beck on the understand-
ing that he would try to persuade Hitler
to abdicate and would then offer an
armistice to the Western Allies. He
agreed that if Hitler would not abdicate
he was to be taken prisoner and tried,
but he knew nothing (it appears) of the
attempt at assassination.
After he had written his “last letter”
to Hitler saying that the war was lost,
and before he could approach the Allies
for an armistice, his car was shot-up by
the Allied dive-bombers and he was
severely wounded. Then came the
attempt on Hitler’s life. There was evi-
dence to connect Rommel with the con-
spirators ; and, though he had organised
as well as he could the Atlantic Wall
defences and had fought hard in Nor-
mandy, there was his openly “defeatist
attitude.”
Two of Hitler’s generals, Burgdorf and
Maisel, called at Rommel’s house and
offered him the alternatives of taking
poison (which they had thoughtfully
brought with them) or of standing his
trial before the People’s Court. Rommel
said goodbye to his wife and son, went
off in a car with the generals, and took
the poison.
Reviewed Briefly.
Madame Bovary, in anew translation
and got up in a Hollywood-style dust-
jacket, has been added to Dymock’s
“Kingston Classics.”
* * * *
Contract Bridge Complete: Ely Cul-
bertson (Faber). Edited by Josephine
Culbertson and Albert H. Morehead, this
is claimed to be “the most complete book
on bridge ever published.” It is anew
and up-to-date edition of the “gold book”
first published in 1936.
* * * *
Cape's “Traveller’s Library,” which
most of us remember with affection from
the years before the war, has made a
welcome reappearance. The war sent the
entire library out of print; anew series
has been started, which will reprint many
of the old titles and add new ones. Four
volumes published are Pauline Smith’s
The Little Karoo, The Pocketbook of
Poems for the Open Air, edited by
Edward Thomas, Peter Fleming’s One’s
Company and James Joyce’s A Portrait
of the Artist as a Young Man—beauti-
fully-made little books, compact in format
and readable in type.
* * * *
Heinemann has published two useful
books of Masefield selections— A Book
of Prose Selections and Selected Poems.
In each case Masefield has been his own
editor. The verse volume contains
(among such indispensable items as “The
Wanderer” and “The Everlasting Mercy”)
the curious poem entitled “Australia” in
which the Poet Laureate described the
Melbourne Cup.
# * * *
The Gardens of Hampton Court:
Mollie Sands (Evans Bros.). Every six
months or so somebody digs up the
history of Hampton Court —Philip Lind-
say did it very well recently—and Miss
Sands has gone a step further than most
by digging up the gardens as well: who
planted the lime-trees, and how the her-
baceous border looked in Suckling’s time,
and sp on. An odd piece of informa-
tion, in the general notes on landscape
gardening that accompany the history of
the palace, is that William Kent, who was
a kind of eighteenth-century horticul-
tural surrealist and went in for “the cult
of the horrid in gardening,” once planted
some dead trees.
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 72
_ Across.
I—Provide refuge for a card-game
seen in Sydney. (7, 6))
8 Quack cure for bad piano-
- Playing. (7)
y Scene of a famous naval battle
and the French entertainment for
kiddies at Christmas. (7)
11 It provides the characteristic
smell of ants in favor of isinglass
, aad a Spanish hero. (6, 4)
J One of our ardent admirers is
cooler. (3)
'—North-eastern composer of “Rule
Britannia” has the steamer in
proxunity. (8)
Vamglonously display a relative
10 S, te ‘ r forte and fifty. (6)
in Fledge a condition of living. (6)
n ti rm Poy Communist blushed. (8)
a station. (3)
i>ed king followed by a grazing
animal that finishes off this rela-
-26-- e L f wheat - (5, 5)
His Majesty and I and the Prime
i V ,ui lster tak e an operator on a
28-t b e ' tram -. (7)
~~rn St touc fifog a sunburnt fellow'.
29 L'
fr. ery f a !s sailing craft or football
(7 1 6 ) Chl dien born in 1933-34?
(CRYPTIC TYPE.)
Down.
I—Pass1 —Pass this innings given in any
engagement. (4)
2 Balance a fine speech in the
experience of Charles If. (11)
3 He’s always having a row. (7)
4 Aries to drive forward hard and
with violence. (3)
5 Widow. (6)
6 The age of one. (3)
7 A gloomy reverie gives Queens-
land’s cricket captain advice as
to how to pass his exams. (5, 5)
10—Coppers in the sound of bells
drive the cycle! (5)
12 — Ready money is a 36th of a
penny in China. (4)
13 — Type of light infection on un-
refined mineral perfume. (11)
14— -A photograph to pull on a flower.
(10)
17—Tease the successor of Moses
among his pals? (4)
19 —Ring 100 in the drone bunk. (5)
21 —Managed within a German boy
located on the Italian heel. (7)
23—One of the Dionne girls given
that French fruit. (6)
25 —Renegades upset a Hollywood
celebrity. (4)
27 Pronoun. (3)
28 — Cashew, for instance, is turning
up in a barrel, (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 71.


vim
V-v
m
V"
■:
■MJ';
mM
it.
■
w-
m
w-- >.
;
I
' 4
y ; ’l
V.
A.
W&M
:
m
M
laiili
?. SM
.
&SL ' .' i
»L..+ ..
sl , Jt' ' ■
/ V. 11
m
f \\M
1:.
il
* t
S;
WBSSSSSffi-* x*./;y :•: • ,;V •:• *•
/ jI;V >• ,
''' * 44
%
| Mi
i ,
• .■••■• y
*l
? ■'."■• iMBWWIW
'' v •• -•";• Itji# ’■ : . • v'J
■«•• * • ' o&p - ■■■ .yS&S&ai
am
■U
if
*iii
Si®
: ;>:
.
' ■ •'• />■••
sii
• ,•?•!■
~-
g-
, i
■:'v
t
m
4t §&
■■? •■■
f
.> i
snsffi 3k
* v- ,V ***
' x AS- ■• !
: S' ■
■f'Sir'; ■"
' -J
:■ ■’ •’ :• : x§»*<■£: :'"
i- 'm,.
■ ’ •. '-fts;
•> :
■
■mi >4 - *
j ,
: wW, ' ■< \
• ■
• ; :..; >r •.. •.. ’ S
■ t p e
• S
Si
s*^ : •. '*• .> v ••
~ y;'. -: •
W
ma.
\ ■!. \
wss W 'y
\V\ „ ?
- S :
'is-- -s,;
:.':V
. :
m
u
■ 'iif
*» - V
••
■ ■«•■ x x x&v-y-x<-
:x,;
'7 *7
■ ->Vf' i | I
«4 : ' -:
V S
~ ‘ '« ' £
«> i J
' . "-h
.
SELF-SUPPORTING
TROUSERS
